 

 

 

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

  

THREE IN A TREE

 

Can You ?

NELLIE GOODE

Can you take a lot of roses and a hollyhock or two
And make a nectar finer than any witch can brew?
It is an old, old secret, known since the world began,
And if you cannot do it I know some one who can.

Can you take some tiny branches, some wool and bits
of string

And make a cozy dwelling that lasts from spring to
spring?

N o builder through the ages has found a better plan;

And if you cannot do it I know some one who can!

Answers to “How Many ‘T’ Birds?” puzzle last month:
Did you get these fourteen name-s? Tanager, Tattler,
Teal, Tern, Thrasher, Thrush, Tinamou, Tit, Titlark,
Titmouse, Toucan, Towhee, Turkey, Turnstone.

 

.5

 
  

13va1;.”

 
  
  
  

     
 
 

        

2‘5 .
a: ..
s I ~
~f . 2
‘ 1W 1: . ., =
Nﬂ"“37"“~{é ,1». ll Iﬁﬁé‘é ." .
a (H -. ‘. “iv-U ~ =
33§§1$..(\§ﬁ.35:€1¢§{ I“i“"‘3‘"“ll~y--. Sh .51: 4:,“ {\N‘g \\\~\\ . ..
, ;-' ‘t. 8 :; f‘U“ \\ ,2 i \ . ‘ . .
t” .1 “Jig-4° eaxﬁ‘gw/ gang}:- war ‘ \ l ‘
' \ ;" warm“:- ”*2 (”as "1‘51,- "Fix ,wéfj
. «r. . m. an. new .. .

 

 

Magpie Alarm—a True Story
RAMONA GRAHAM

S a child, my greatest delight was to visit an elderly
cousin of my mother’s. She had no children, but
she and her husband loved pets and were always rescu—
ing some sort of little animal. Their apartment, although
in the heart of a city, was almost as good as a pet shop.
One summer when I was ten I spent two weeks with
them. There was a large cage containing a talkative
black and white magpie, and a still larger cage in which
lived siX small and mischievous monkeys. In the daytime
the cage of the magpie sat near the sunny dining-room
window and the bird made the most of his opportunity to
insult the passers-by. At the same time he could scold the
monkeys who at the slightest opportunity reached mis—
chievous hands and pulled the sweeping feathers from
his proud tail. At night his cage was placed on top of the
monkeys’ cage with a cloth thrown over it to quiet his
incessant voice.

One night, the household was roused by a series of
dreadful shrieks and an excited babble of “Help! Help!
Murder! Murder! Help! Help!”

It was the magpie screaming; but the monkeys were
cowering and whispering in the farthest corner of their
cage, not at all to blame. A sneak—thief had pried off the
lock and had entered the dining-room with an eye to the
silver, no doubt.

He did not get it. In fact he was so badly frightened
and confused with the racket he had brought down upon
his own head, that, as he left the apartment, he ran in
the wrong direction. The cries of murder continuing,
waked the whole apartment-house. Doors ﬂew open and
householders came running. The thief was captured
before he could locate either the ﬁre escape or the stairs.

Where the magpie had picked up the word, murder,
no one ever knew for he never had used it before and
never, while with my cousins, did he use it again.

To Attract Hummingbirds
WILMA MERRELL

HE child who loves birds can have them by grow—

ing plants which will allure them. There are many
species of hummingbirds and they are not too timid to
be coaxed into a city yard.

Trumpet vines will attract these birds. They grow
profusely in almost any American climate. The birds are
also attracted by butterﬂy bushes which can be bought
from a nursery for a few cents. Given a sunny place,
they will bloom for many weeks. We have seen as many
as seven hummingbirds ﬂitting around on one large bush.

Perhaps, best of all, the little fellows like the ordinary
wild sunﬂower seeds. Since they do not light on the
ground they never pick up the seeds they drop, but the
wild canaries and linnets will enjoy doing this for them.

 

 




 

 

Nov.1941

Yellow Bird

Clare

Leslie Manchester

"Yellow Bird, listen, where is thy song
Caroled in sweetness the whole day long?
Yellow Bird, tell me where is thy lay;
Lost—can it be—like the lilies of May?
Yellow Bird, Yellow Bird, answer my call
Out of the ramblers red on the wall!

"Out of the mist of hills afar
Lifting up to the evening star;
Out of hedges green and cool
Pictured there in the placid pool;
Out of lupines wet with dew,
Slender sprays of white and blue!

"Yellow Bird, it was but a dream;
Crossed had I a silent stream
Far from blossoms, nests and things;
Far from lilting airy wings;
Now, I wake and hear your song,
Yellow Bird, Yellow Bird, all day long!"

Deportment Wins Diploma

FOR the ﬁrst time in the history of the

Verona, Pa., High School, a diploma
has been issued for an A in deportment.
No readin’, no writin’, no\’rithmetic . . .
Just 100% for good behavior.

Through the six weeks’ session of sum-
mer school, “Jerry,” six-year-old pet of
Harry Witzel, 14, attended school with
Harry and sat right behind his young
master through classes. Not a bark, not
a how], not a whine came from him. He
neither whispered, yawned nor threw
spit balls.

At the close of the session Harry’s
teacher, Blanche Lindemuth, patted
Jerry’s head. “Perfect deportment,” she
said. Through her recommendation, a
“sure enough” diploma, sealed and signed
by the proper school authorities, was
issued to one Jerry Witzel. R. H. R.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Protecting the Cotton

NLY a few years ago, in the South

birds were killed recklessly every
year. They were looked upon as pests,
and boys were encouraged by their
elders to bait ﬁelds for them, so that
hundreds might be gathered to fall prey
to traps and shotguns. But at present,
these one-time targets are winning, and
faithfully earning friends on Southern
farms.

Through the efforts of conservation
authorities, farmers all over the South
are learning to identify birds which help
them ﬁght their relentless foes, the cot—
ton boll weevils. For years, these insects
have been costly invaders, taking a tre-
mendous toll of the South’s most impor-
tant crop. Consequently, farmers who
are being instructed on the weevil de—
stroyers have come to realize that the
birds save countless dollars for cotton
growers.

In Alabama, a leading cotton state,
conservation officials point out that 66
species of birds are enemies of the wee-
vil. The good work is done the year
around. During winter, birds which fre-
quent the ﬁelds seek the insects out in
their hiding places—crevices in the
ground, rubbish heaps, and in the bark
of trees. Among these busy helpers are
the meadowlark, or “ﬁeld lark,” the
pipit, or “titlark,” the blackbird or
grackle, the Savannah sparrow, the
Carolina wren, the tufted titmouse, and
the killdeer.

There is an equal number of helpers
in summer, among the most important
of which are the orioles. These little

birds are forever seeking the weevils out
from refuges on the cotton plants, de-
stroying them by the thousands. Other
bird enemies of the insects include the
ﬂycatchers,

swallows, and the night-

 

Courtesy Fish & Wildlife Service, U. S. Dept. Interior

WILD TURKEY TOMS, WICHITA MTS. WILDLIFE REFUGE, OKLAHOMA

Page 209

hawks (bull-bats), which catch the
weevils when they venture into the air.
Slowly but very surely, the roar of
guns is diminishing in the South’s ﬁelds,
and the once widespread practice of trap-
ping is disappearing. As one farmer
said, “It would be foolish to throw away
money. Finding out about the habits of
these birds is just like ﬁnding dollars——
there’s no telling how much cotton they
save for me every year.” L. C.

The Modernized Turkey

DOROTHEA K. GOULD

VER three hundred years ago when

Governor Bradford set aside a par-
ticular day on which the Pilgrims were
to give thanks for their bountiful har-
vest, the people supplemented their usu-
ally scanty menu with turkey. And it is
the turkey that still graces our tables
on Thanksgiving Day.

Of course, the Pilgrims’ turkeys were
wild. They were quite common in the
forests, and they had a wonderful ﬂavor.
In keeping with the tradition, there are
still some peOple who go to the forests
and get wild turkey for Thanksgiving.

Today the popularity of our turkey
has increased to the extent that turkeys
are raised on the farms now by the thou—
sands, and the total value runs into mil-
lions of dollars. About half of the crop
is eaten on Thanksgiving day alone.

Some people thought that the bird
ﬁrst came from Turkey, thus its name.
However, we know that this bird is a
modernized version of the wild turkey
that roamed the hills and forests of our
ancestors’ era.

The turkey makes her nest in a se-
cluded spot on the ground, in dense
weeds or tangled thickets. She seldom
uses the same path twice in succession
to reach it. Usually there are nine to
eighteen warm, yellowish-white eggs,
evenly dotted over the entire surface
with reddish-brown.

When the baby turkeys are two weeks
old they are able to roost in trees. In
fact it is on tree boughs where the tur-
keys always roost at night. If an owl
or other enemy swoops down to get a
young turkey a whole ﬂock of grown
turkeys will drop from the boughs be-
fore the owl can achieve its purpose.

Turkeys are the largest of our Ameri-
can game birds, often weighing twenty
pounds, and a few reach the surpris-
ing weight of forty pounds.

During the day the turkeys of the
farm wander off in ﬂocks to feed and
dig in the meadows, but as supper time
approaches they return to the farmyard
and congregate for their regular evening
meal. '

See page 213 for notice of the Hu—
mane Calendar for 1942—entirely new.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

COMPLIMENT'S OF »

Quincy Mutual
FIRE INSURANCE CO.

57 WASHINGTON STREET

Quincy, Mass.

Telephone - GRAnite 8770

 

 

COMPLIMENTS OF
ESSEX COUNTY
CO-OPERATIVE

FARMING ASSOCIATION

Topsfield, Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

LYN DONVILLE
CREAMERY
ASSOCIATION

86 ELM STREET
WATERTOWN

 

 

 

 

A FRIEND

 

 

COMPLIMENTS OF
TREAT HARDWARE
CORP.

LAWRENCE

 

 

 

#

D. & L. SLADE CO.

Spices - Baking Powder

189 STATE STREET

BOSTON

 

 

 

 

LEXINGTON PARK KENNELS
CORNER BEDF‘ORD & WIN TELR
Dogs and Cats Boarded

Heated Winter Quarters
Opera-ted Under Veterinary Supervision
INDIVIDUAL OUTDOOR RUNS
Office Winter LE’Xington 10-68

 

 

COSMOPOLITAN GARAGE, INC.

GARAGE SERVICE DAY AND NIGHT
Storage - Washing - Dead Storage

44-56 Pitts Street Boston
Telephone LAFayette 8922

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CAMBRIDGE SCREEN MFG. CO.

63 Gorham Street
West Somerville, Mass.
Telephone, SOMerset 4170

 

 

 

 

E. L. GIRIMES PRINTING CO.

368 Congress Street
Boston, Mass

Telephone — LIBea'ty 3354

 

The Lobster Claw

280 HUNTINGTON AVENUE
Boston, Mass.
Telephone, COMmonwealth 003-9

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ROBERT C. PETERSON
D R U G G I S T

441 Brookline Ave., Boston, Mass.

Telephone — BE‘Acon 5363

Bonnell Motors
666 MAIN STREET

Winchester, Mass.
Telephone —— WINdhester 1448

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Compliments of

CLARK AND MILLS ELEC. CO.
75 Newbury Street - Boston

Specialists in Fluorescent Lighting

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 90

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the first Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Office: 180 Longwood Av-
enue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. RO'WLEY, President

GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

 

MAY, 1941

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS, to take orders for Our Dumb Animals,
are wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are
offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about 300 words, are solicited. We
do not wish to consider prose manuscripts longer
than 500 words nor verse in excess of twenty-four
lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts should
be typewritten and an addressed envelope with full
return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

Wasted Millions

HIS is the title of an article appear-
ing recently in the Country Gentle-
man, which states that the annual loss
caused by the careless handling of cattle,
hogs and sheep during transportation
and marketing amounts annually to some
$12,000,000. Fifty-eight per cent of this
loss appears to be from hog bruises that
might have been caused by a club, a prod
pole, or by a kick. Twenty per cent is
being caused, probably, by a whip or by
barbed wire, protruding nails, splinters
or other sharp objects. Twenty per cent
could have been caused by a blow with
a board, or even by a blow from some
other instrument.

About one-third of the bruises to cattle
are in the region of the hip or loin, prob-
ably caused mostly by the animals
crowding through narrow doorways or
gateways on farms, or through narrow
loading chutes and doorways to trucks
and railroad cars.

For years the National Livestock Loss

Prevention Board has been doing every—
thing, evidently, in its power to reduce
this loss by a campaign of education to
the farmers from whom these animals
so largely come, endeavoring to reach
the farms and all who have the handling
of these animals from the time they
leave the farm till they reach the stock—
yards.
. The concern of the humane societies
1s, of course, entirely in the suffering of
these animals, and for their sake we
can only hope that the National Live-
stock Loss Prevention Board will be suc-
cessful in reducing this suffering.

As far. as we can learn, all the hu-
mane soc1eties of Great Britain are still,
against serious odds, and declining funds,
domg their best for unfortunate animals.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

A Hundred Years Ago

NE reads with surprise that Cha-

teaubriand, the famous Frenchman,
a hundred years ago, long before there
was any serious talk of a machine age,
wrote the following:

“Imagine hands condemned to idleness
by reason of the multiplicity and variety
of machines. What will you do with un-
employed humanity? What will you do
with the passions and the intelligence
left without occupation?

“He realized,” writes his biographer,
“that social equality could assert itself
only through despotism and dictator—
ship, that the remedy would be worse
than the ill, and that the abolition of
personal property would lead to a slav—
ery to which history, however far one
delves into the past, can show nothing
comparable.”

“Weary of private property,” says
Chateaubriand, “do you wish to make the
government sole owner, distributing to a
beggar community a share proportioned
to the deserts of every individual? Who
is to judge of those deserts? Who will
have the power and authority to execute
your decisions? Who is to hold this bank
of living chattels and turn it to account?
Make no mistake, without individual
property none are free. Property is
none other than liberty. The only solu—
tion is the Christian solution.”

With all his many moral failures he
at least recognized the solution of the
problem.

A Word From England

A letter from Sir Robert Gower, chair-
man of the Board of the Royal S. P.
C. A., and Charles R. Johns, secretary of
the National Canine Defence League, ex—
presses most hearty gratitude for money
that has been sent them through the
American Humane Association—money
contributed by humane organizations in
this country.

Mr. Johns says,

“When we tell the distressed owners
of these animals that we are being
helped from America, their reaction is
one of increased gratitude, and we are
all made to feel that there is a unity of
spirit between us in which compassion
for defenseless animals is by no means
the least signiﬁcant component.

“The ideal of justice for animals we
have endeavored to maintain for so many
years is no mere empty form of words
in these days and nights of stress and
peril.”

We regret to learn that, because of ill-
ness, Captain Fergus MacCunn, who was
for a number of years chief secretary
of the Royal S. P. C. A., London, has
been obliged to resign. Mr. S. G. Polhill
is now serving as acting chief secretary.

ﬂlay,1941

“Boy”—the Mastiff

NE of our generous friends tells us
the following story:

“I have a mastiff by the name of ‘Boy.’
He is a little over three years of age.
In back of our land, which contains
twenty-ﬁve acres, a new house was built
sometime ago, and the people at Christ-
mas became the owners of a cocker span-
iel. Every morning Boy and the small
spaniel, and a boxer which we also have,
are taken out by the chauffeur to have
a run.

“Boy, the mastiff, never goes off his
own property, but the neighbor’s spaniel
comes over and plays with him. The
other morning one of the chauffeurs was
in the garage yard near the house and
suddenly Boy appeared with the cocker
spaniel in his mouth. When he saw the
chauffeur he disappeared and could not
be caught. He simply ran the other way
and was taking the puppy home.

“Knowing where the dog belonged, I
sent the chauffeur over to see if the
puppy had been injured. Instead, I found
the latter playing about, and the neigh—
bor told the chauffeur that Boy had just
brought the cocker home. Upon examina-
tion it was found that nothing was
wrong with the little fellow, that he was
unhurt—just a little damp on the neck
where Boy had been carrying him.”

Photograph Contest

Do not forget that the contest for the
best photographs of domestic animals or
domestic birds, conducted by Our Dumb
Animals, closes June 30, 1941.

Those interested in competing for the
thirteen cash prizes (ﬁrst, $25; second,
$15; third, $5; fourth to thirteenth, $2
each) and ten yearly subscriptions to
Our Dumb Animals, are urged to send
to the ofﬁce for particulars and rules
governing the contest.

Who Said This ?

Not a clergyman. Nobody with a name
high in the ecclesiastical world, but a
scientist—one of the most distinguished
in the surgical and medical world in this
or other lands today—Dr. Alexis Carrel.
This is what he said:

“Today, as never before, prayer is a
binding necessity in the lives of men
and nations. The lack of emphasis on the
religious sense has brought the world to
the edge of destruction. If the power of
prayer is again released and used in the
lives of common men and women; if the
spirit declares its aims clearly and boldly,
there is yet hOpe that our prayers for a
better world. will be answered.”

Can anything be truer than that “the
lack of emphasis on the religious sense
has brought the world to the edge of
destruction?”

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

H'_l

Page 180

An Elegy to Love
Yetive Daugherty

Like the velvet sheen of the winter’s snow
The fronds of the fir tree, that wave to and

fro ’
From out of the distance . . . from out of the
past . ’
Comes the memory of love . . . that didnt
last.

Many years have passed since first we met.
I’ve tried so hard, yet cannot forget,
You’ll always remain within my heart
Though I never dreamed we ever would part.

Your shape was as graceful as that of a
fawn,

Your hair the color of the sun at dawn,

Your eyes were strange, with an icy store.

And though I- was warned, I didn’t care.

Then you left, for no reason at all,

Just as the leaves were beginning to fall.

I bade you good-bye, and tipped my hat,

I wanted to cry, though you were only a
cat.

Fishing Dogs Home

MARK DUNNETT

7

UST as soon as “Nuisance,’ our pup.

was loosed he ran out of reach, out
of sight, and out of hearing. What’s
more, he didn’t return when we called.
Now some dogs naturally come back and
stay fairly close to home, but others,
like Nuisance, have to be taught how far
they can go.

At last we found a solution to the
problem of the runaway. We played him
out and brought him in like a trout, or
any other ﬁsh. A cord like that of an
ordinary ﬁshing tackle was used. The
end of the line was securely fastened to
the dog’s leash. All right, then, let him
run! Usually he started ahead full speed
out of the yard, down the street, or other
straight-of—way. When the line had been
let out as far as we thought necessary,
we’d begin “Here, Nuisance, here, Nuis—
ance!” If he didn’t heed the call we
started reeling him in.

The tug was strong but the line was
stronger and eventually he came trot-
ting toward us.

Many times the dog went running
away at the end of the cord and each
time was hauled short at our command.
This was done at constant intervals and
varying distances. Finally, a few tugs
of the line, or merely holding it in place,
and he obediently came of his own ac-
cord. Sometimes the dog was rewarded
with a pat and once in awhile with food.
After consistent training this way, the

dog soon learns that his master’s voice
means COME.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Answers to Cat Questions

On Page 169

1. Shylock in “The Merchant of
Venice.”

2. A character in “Alice in Wonder—
land.”

3. The Maltese cat comes from the
Isle of Malta, and the Manx cat comes
from the Isle of Man.

4. Bast, Bubastis.

5. No. This is based on the super-
stition that cats were witches’ familiars.

6. (a) A cat brindled with spots or
streaks. (b) A large variety of cat
marked black and white in a pattern like
the shell of a tortoise. (c) A native of
Siam. This cat is cream or fawn in color
with sooty smudges on feet and nose.

7. Lion, tiger, leopard, panther, oce—
lot, civet, puma, lynx, bobcat.

8. “The Cat That Walked by Him-
self.”

9. An ailurophile.

10. (a) Catseye. (b) Cattail. (c)
Catspaw.
11. A catkin.

12. In a dirigible.

13. The Sphinx.

14. Cardinal Richelieu.

15. A cat 0’ nine tails is a whip with
nine lashes, a Manx cat is a tailless
cat.

16. According to superstition, a black
cat is lucky when it comes to your house
to stay.

17. “A cat may look at a king.”

18. Catgut.

 

IN THE EDIToR’s imam

 

 

BLESSED ARE THE PEACE-MAKERS,
Gladys Houston Greiner.

This ﬁrst volume of verse has the dis-
tinction of bearing an excellent title. There
is one section devoted to nature, in which
are included several selections in praise of
birds of various kinds. “Care Not” is an
effective protest against the custom of
wearing coats made of the skins of harm—
less animals. More power to the writer who
can say of some of those of her own sex,

“Proud in your sable and your mink,
You care not, neither do you think.”

63 pp. $1. Henry Harrison, New York.

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of
our Society is “The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals”; that it is the second incorporated (March, 1868)
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country, and
that It has no connection with any other similar Society.

Any . bequest especially intended for the benefit of the Angell
Memorial Animal Hospital, should, nevertheless, be made to the Massa-
chusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals “for the use
«of the Angeli Memorial Animal Hospital,” as the Hospital is not incor-

' p-orated but is the property of that Society and is conducted by it.

FORM OF BEQUEST

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals (or to The American Humane Edu
of .......... dollars, (or, if other property,

Sept. 1941

Liberal Annuity Rates

Both of our Societies offer you semi-
annually during your lifetime a fixed income
on the sum, given. Depending upon your age
at the time of the gift, the rate varies from
4V2 % to 9% per annum, beginning at age 45.

ADVANTAGES

No coupons to clip, no papers to sign and
mail. You simply receive your checks at
stated intervals—that’s all there is to it.

Annuity agreements are frequently used to
provide for the future years of a loved one
whose present income is temporary or in-
sufficient.

It is no experiment,
There is no anxiety,
No fluctuations in rate of income,
No waste of your estate by a will
contest.

* ’X' it * 96

Persons of comparatively small means
may, by this arrangement, obtain a better
income for life than could be had with equal
safety by the usual methods of investment,
while avoiding the risks and waste of a will
contest and ultimately promoting the cause
of unfortunate animals.

The management of our invested funds is
a guarantee of the security of these Life
Annuities.

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A., or the
American Humane Education Society, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston, will be glad to
furnish further details.

 

 

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the first Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Office; 180 Longwood Av—
enue. Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS

One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of

the world.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the office en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AIVIERICAN HUMANE‘ EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. 1’. C. A.

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00

Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00

Sustaining Life 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
A. PO-LLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the editor, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston.

cation Society), the sum
describe the property).

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 210

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the first Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwoo-d,
Massachusetts. Boston Office: 180 Longwood Av-
enue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addresed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
*GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

 

NOVEMBER, 1941

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS, to take orders for Our Dumb Animals,
are wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are
offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about 300 words, are solicited. We
do not wish to consider prose manuscripts longer
than 500 words nor verse in excess of twenty-four
lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts should
be typewritten and an addressed envelope with full
return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

The Boy Scouts in England

ORE than 60,000 boys have been

awarded the National Service
Badge for sustained work as messengers,
ﬁrst-aid orderlies, telephonists, signalers
and stretcher—bearers. The Scout has
learned how to ﬁght ﬁre, how to act if an
attack is made with poison gas, how to
deal with panic. He has attained skill in
ﬁrst-aid, in relaying verbal messages, in
signaling and in a thorough knowledge
of his own district.

One young lad, Derrick Belfall, four—
teen years of age, injured one night by
a ﬁre bom‘b when he was carrying on
with undaunted courage, later taken to
a hospital gravely wounded, spoke up
faintly, and evidently more or less un-
conscious, as his last words, “Messenger
Belfall reporting. I have delivered my
message.”

Highest tributes are being paid to
these brave and faithful lads.

The Wood Duck Again

Some of our readers may remember
the protest that we made against the
opening of the season on the much—loved
wood duck. The Massachusetts Audubon
Society now tells us that, although the
shooting and possession of one wood
duck during the waterfowl hunting sea-
son has been legalized in ﬁfteen states,
this beautiful bird is still given protec-
tion throughout the entire year in
Massachusetts and the other New Eng-
land states.

We are glad also to learn from the
same source that in southern and west-
ern states, where the mourning dove is
hunted, the seasons have been shortened
to a maximum of forty-two consecutive
days, as this bird is becoming scarce in
many sections where it is an important
game spec1es.

, OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Dog Clinics in London

HE Dogs’ Bulletin, published by the

National Canine Defence League,
London, says, “Come what may, our Clin—
ics carry on despite the ordeal by blast
and bomb which has ringed most of our
Clinics with craters and shattered the
windows of all but three. It further says
that “though there has been a consider-
able decline in London’s dog and cat
population, the resources of practically
every Clinic are strained to their ut-
most.”

The issue of the Dogs’ Bulletin from
which we take the above, closes with the
following:

“Will this be our last issue? That is
the question in our minds as we make up
the pages of the Dogs’ Bulletin, and
the answer seems to be very likely it will
be the last until the war is won. This
because three-quarters of its staff are
serving in the Army and Navy and the
Royal Air Force. These men are scattered
all over the country. We are all likely to
pass through severe trials, but we will
try to serve our country and its dogs in
the present and the future even better
than in the past.”

Brock'ton Fair Cat Show

The cat show, under the auspices of
the Boston Cat Club, held at the Brock—
ton Fair grounds, Septemebr 12—13, at-
tracted many thousands of spectators.
Several hundred prize cats from various
sections of the country were exhibited
and were judged by Mrs. Marguerite
Saxby Maybe. The show was under the
direction of Miss Irma Rich of Boston.

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A. dis-
played an interesting group of cat and
kitten posters and furnished Visitors
with literature on the proper care and
treatment of cats.

 

-.;<s\\\\

JOHN J. LEYDON RE-CEIVIN

\\ \'\

   

G MASS. S. P. C. A.
MEDAL FROM JOHN F. COTTER OF THE SOCIETY

Nov. 1941

Dogs and the Defense
Movement

HE American Dog and Pet Magazine,

in the last issue, says that within six
months there should be a nucleus of
7,000 dogs available for possible forma-
tion into a United States Army unit.
It also says that a class has been organ-
ized, and a group of enthusiastic mem—
bers are receiving instructions in ele-
mentary obedience work, from which
they will proceed to rescue work, carry-
ing of messages, and the laying of com-
munication lines.

The indications are that soon all of
the forty—two obedience clubs in the six-
teen states will pick up the work. Al—
ready the American Kennel Club has
awarded degrees in obedience work to
1,000 dogs, and a large percentage of
these will be available for army use.

In 1844, in Philadelphia, a law to
prohibit taking a bath between Novem—
ber and March was defeated by only
two votes. Boston passed an ordinance
forbidding bathing in a tub without a
medical order about the same period.

For Saving Horses from Fire

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A.
awarded a bronze medal to John J.
Leydon, stable foreman of H. P. Hood &
Sons, Charlestown, for his heroism in
removing ﬁfty-two horses to safety from
the scene of a $1,500,000 ﬁre last Sep-
tember.

Mr. Leydon, who lives at 20 Essex
Street, Charlestown, a few blocks from
the H. P. Hood plant, was off duty when
the ﬁrst alarm sounded. He immediately
rushed from home to the stables and
personally led many of the excited and
frightened horses out of danger.

The regular exits of the stables were
cut off by the ﬂames but Mr. Leydon su—
pervised the opening of
improvised exits which
resulted in the complete
rescue of every animal.

The ' citation to Mr.
Leydon follows: “For
deep love of the horses
in his charge—for his
alert mental and physi—
cal response and for his
superb bravery in the
face of danger—the
Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals on
behalf of all lovers of
animals, b e s t o w s its
highest award.”

Gus Kehoe, assistant
s t a b 1 e foreman, was
also honored by the So-
ciety for his part in the
rescue.

  

\

 

 

 

 

 

 




Christmas Eve

 

Jessie M. Dowlin

Quiet rules the stanchioned rows
Where the cattle stand and doze;
Safely housed the gentle sheep
Huddled in their woolly sleep;

Not a dove in shadowed cote
Makes a single cooing note;

The big brown mare within her stall
Stirs her bed-straw not at all;
Sheep and cattle, cloves and mare
Are still as if they were not there;
Blest is the Eve When long ago

The dumb beasts saw the Christ Star’s glow!

 

 

 

OUTSTANDING SILENT FILMS
THE BELL OF ATRI

illustrating Longfellow’s poem
of the same title,

 

and
IN BEHALF OF ANIMALS

showing the practical work of the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A., the
Angell Animal Hospital and the
Rest Farm for Horses.

“The ﬁlms were much enjoyed
and are certainly educational as
well as interesting,” writes Mrs.
Ethel Moore, secretary of the Tip—
pecanoe County Humane Society,
Lafayette, Indiana.

, , For terms of rental or sale ad—
, dress, Secretary,

180 Longwood Ave., Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

KEEP YOUR DOGS

   
 
 
 

NEMA

WORM CAPSULES

 

 

- F R E Send for Nema

booklet No. 652.
Write to Animal Industry Dept, Desk N583I
PARKE, DAVIS & 60., DETROIT, MICH.

Drug Stores Sell Parke-Davis Products

 

 

 

 

 

    

    
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 

  
  
 

Pimples, simple
rashes and Similar irritations
due to external causes usually relieved a
helped by pure, mildly medicated ‘

curlcunnzsrsz

 

  

   
 

 

 
    

 

 

 

Since 1832

J. s. WATERMAN & sons, lnc.
litthrrtakrrs

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE

City and out-of—town service

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Humane Literature

DUE to the heavy advertising this
month, our regular price list of
humane literature and Band of Mercy
supplies is again crowded out. It appears
in every issue of Our Dumb Animals for
1941, except those for February, No—
vember and December. Those interested
are reminded that we have a special
6—page folder that gives the prices of
about 100 items of literature, posters,
badges, etc. This will be mailed free to
any address upon receipt of a request.
If you wish to give humane books, or
pamphlets for Christmas, or to distrib-
ute leaﬂets on the care and protection
of animals, be sure to write for this
price list to the American Humane Edu—
cation Society, world’s headquarters for
humane literature, 180 Longwood Av-
enue, Boston, Mass.

Humane Calendar Ready

The 1942 HUMANE CALENDAR
presents a remarkable colored picture,
7 X 101/2 inches, showing George Wash—
ington, Patrick Henry and Edmund
Pendleton, mounted on splendid horses,
riding away from Mount Vernon to at-
tend the First Continental Congress at
Philadelphia. It is a scene of great his-
torical importance. With an attractive
pad, 21/2 X 41/2 inches, the cardboard
measures 21 X 15 inches, and will be
mailed ﬂat.

This Calendar, now ready for distri-
bution, is ideal for use as a Christmas
reminder.

Prices: 20 cents each; two for 35
cents; three for 50 cents; 12 for $1.75;
postpaid, when sent to the same address.
If sent separately, regardless of the
number, the price is 20 cents each.

Orders with special imprint of So—
cieties can be ﬁlled only if sent at once.
Address, Secretary, AMERICAN HU-
MANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

All members of the cat family like
catnip. It has a stimulating effect on
lions, tigers, bobcats, lynx, and cougars
just as it has on cats.

  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
   
 
  
 
  
   
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
   
   
    
   
  
   
 
 
  

 

Dec. 1941

Liberal Annuity Rates

Both of our Societies offer you semi-
annually during your lifetime a fixed income
on the sum given. Depending upon your age
at the time of the gift, the rate varies from
41/2 % to 9% per annum, beginning at age 45.

ADVANTAGES

No coupons to clip, no papers to sign and
mail. You simply receive your checks at
stated intervals—that’s all there is to it.

Annuity agreements are frequently used to
provide for the future years of a, loved one
whose present income is temporary or in-
sufficient.

It is no experiment,
There is no anxiety,
No fluctuations in rate of income,

No waste of your estate by a will
contest.

Persons of comparatively small means
may, by this arrangement, obtain a better
income for life than could be had with equal
safety by the usual methods of investment,
while avoiding the risks and waste of a will
contest and ultimately promoting the cause
of unfortunate animals.

. The management of our invested funds is
a guarantee of the security of these Life
Annuities.

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A., or the
American Humane Education Society, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston, will be glad to
furnish further details.

 

 

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the first Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Office; 180 Longwood Av-
enue. Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS

One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of

the world.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the office en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00

Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00

Sustaining Life 2‘0 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0 75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
A. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of
our Society is “The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals”; that it is the second incorporated (March, 1868)
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country, and
that it has no connection with any other similar Society.

Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angell
Memorial Animal Hospital, should, nevertheless, be made to the Massa-
chusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals “for the use
of the Angel] Memorial Animal HOSpital,” as the Hospital is not incor-
porated but is the property of that Society and is conducted by it.

FORM OF BEQUEST

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals (or to the American Humane Education Society), the sum
of .......... dollars, (or, if other property, describe the property).

 

l
l

T..."

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

May, 1941

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angel]. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer
GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel
JOSEPH MOONEY, Treasurer’s Assistant

Trustees; of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President and Ch. Fi-
nance Com., United Shoe Machinery Corporation

CHARLES E. SPENCER, JR., President, First National
Bank of Boston
Prosecuting Officers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100

L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Ofﬁcer
HARRY L. ALLEN HOWARD WILLAND
HARVEY R. FULLER J. ROBERT SMITH

County Prosecuting Officers

HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston
FRED T. VICKERS, Wenham
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen
JOSEPH E. HASWELL, Methuen
FRED F. HALL, Springﬁeld

Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
CHARLES E. BROWN, Attleboro, Bristol and Plymouth
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis

Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket

T. KING HASWELL, Pittsﬁeld Berkshire

Middlesex and Norfolk
Eastern Essex
Western Essex
Western Essex

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methnen
W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Other Small Animal Shelters of M. S. P. C. A.
Boston, 170-184 Longwood Avenue
Springﬁeld, 53-57 Bliss Street
Pittsﬁeld, 224 Cheshire Road
Attleboro, 3 Commonwealth Avenue
Hyannis, State Road, Rte. 28, Centerville
Wenham, Cherry Street

MARCH REPORT OF THE OFFICERS
OF THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.,
WITH HEADQUARTERS AT BOSTON,
METHUEN, SPRINGFIELD, PITTSFIELD,
ATTLEBORO, WENHAM, HYANNIS, WOR-
CESTER, FITCHBURG, NORTHAMPTON,
HAVERHILL, HOLYOKE, ATHOL, TAUN-
TON, COVERING THE ENTIRE STATE

Miles traveled by humane officers . . 16,198

Cases investigated ........ . . . . . 271
Animals examined ............. 2,808
Animals placed in homes ....... 243
Lost animals restored to owners. . 105
Number of prosecutions ......... 1
Number of convictions .......... 1
Horses taken from work ........ 6
Horses humanely put to sleep. . . . 40
Small animals humanely put to sleep 1,889
Horse auctions attended ........ 12
Stockyards and Abattoirs
Animals inspected ............. 66,303
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep ................ 84

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

AN GELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals
184 Longwood Avenue. Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

E. F. SCHROEDER, D.v.M., Chief of Staff
R. H. SCHNEIDER, V.M.D., Asst. Chief
G. B. SCHNELLE, V.M.D.

T. O. MUNSON, V.M.D.
C. L. BLAKELY, V.M.D.
M. S. ARLEIN, D.v.M.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springﬁeld Branch

Telephone 4—7355
53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.

Veterinarians
A. R. EVANS, V.M.D. H. L. SMEAD, D.v.M.

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR MARCH
At 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

Cases entered; in Hospital .......... 713
Cases entered in Dispensary ....... 1,584
Operations ....................... 438

At Springﬁeld Branch, 53 Bliss Street

 

Cases entered in Hospital .......... 211
Cases entered in Dispensary ....... 661
Operations ........................ 127
At Attleboro Clinic, 3 Commonwealth Ave.
Cases entered ..................... 78
Totals

Hospital cases since opening, Mar.
1, 1915 ....................... 192,765
Dispensary Cases ............... 485,876
Total ............... 678,641

A Humane Week

Editorial in Boston Post

Many proclaimed “weeks” are of only
sectional and comparatively trivial im‘
portance, but April 20 ushers in a week
ﬁttingly observed by all friends of dumb
animals. This year is the 73rd anniver-
sary Of the organization of the Massa-
chusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals by George T. Angell.
A ﬁne hospital stands as his memorial.
The appeal by the Governor to observe
“Be Kind to Animals Week” should ﬁnd
response 52 weeks of the year.

Branches and Auxiliaries
MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Taunton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—MRS.
HOWARD F. WOODWARD, Pres.; MRS. THOS. H. CAS-
WELL, Sec.

Northampton Branch of Mass. S. P. C A.—MRs.
F. E. Dow, Pres.; MISS JANE BIGELOW, Treas.

Great Barrington Branch Of Mass. S. P. C. A.—
MRS. ROBERT MAGRUDER, Pres.; MRS. DONALD WORTH-
INGTON, Treas.

Holyoke Branch Of Mass. S. P. C. A.—MRS. AARON
C. BAGG, Pres.; MRS. ROBERT E. NEWCOMB, Treas.

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Bostom— ————— -———— Pres.;
MRS. WILLIAM E. UNDERWOOD, Treas.; MRS. GEORGE
D. COLPAS, Ch. Work Com. First Friday.

Springﬁeld Branch Auxiliary—MRS. MORTON B.
MINER, Pres.; MRS. HERBERT T. PAYNE, Treas. Second
Thursday.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary—

Pres. ; MRS. JOHN HAMILTON CLARKE, Treas.

 

Page 91

Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke

GAIN the staff Of the Massachusetts

S. P. C. A. has been called upon to
mourn the passing Of one of its most
active workers, Mrs. Edith Washburn
Clarke, who died suddenly at the Peter
Bent Brigham Hospital, Boston, on
April 2.

She had been all her life a great lover
of horses, had owned them, bred them
and ridden them at many of the larger
horse shows both in the East and in the
West. A devoted lover of all animals,
from the lowliest to the highest, she
naturally became associated with the
Massachusetts Society for the Perven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals and the
American Humane Education Society.

She succeeded Mrs. M. L. Hall as see—
retary of the humane press bureau Of the
latter Society, and each month dis—
patched to several hundred newspapers
and others suitable press releases, She
was actively associated with many prom-
inent organizations, into which she car—
ried ardent campaigns in behalf of hu-
mane education. Among these were,
principally, the Parent-Teacher Associ—
ation and the Federation of Women’s
Clubs. She Often spoke on humane educa-
tion in schools, churches and various
juvenile organizations. She was in de—
mand as a judge at pet shows and con—
ducted a, wide correspondence on a great
variety Of subjects connected with hu-
mane work.

For a long period She had been the
efﬁcient president Of the Women’s Aux—
iliary of the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.
She extended this interest by being in-
strumental in organizing similar Auxili—
aries in Springﬁeld and Winchester. She
also organized branches Of the Society
in Northampton, Great Barrington and
Holyoke.

Mrs. Clarke’s unceasing kindness, her
unselﬁshness, her indefatigable energy,
her unusual abilities, made her a per-
sonality that won her a host of friends
and the sincere regard of all who knew
her.

The funeral, conducted by President
Francis H. Rowley of the Society, was
held Friday afternoon, April 4, in the
chapel of the Crematory at Forest Hills
Cemetery, Boston, where a large con-
course of friends met to pay their ﬁnal
tribute to one whose work seemed so
untimely ended.

Hospitality Day Postponed

Because of the death Of the president
of the Women’s Auxiliary of the Massa-
chusetts S. P. C. A., Mrs. Edith Wash-
burn Clarke, the annual Hospitality Day,
which was to have been held at the SO—
ciety’s headquarters, on April 15, has
been postponed.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Nov. 191,1

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel
JOSEPH MOONEY, Treasurer’s Assistant

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President and Ch. Fi-
nance Com., United Shoe Machinery Corporation

CHARLES E. SPENCER, JR., President, First National
Bank of Boston
Prosecuting Officers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100
L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Ofﬁcer

HARRY L. ALLEN HOWARD WILLAND
HARVEY R. FULLER J. ROBERT SMITH

County Prosecuting Officers

Middlesex and Norfolk
Eastern Essex
Western Essex
Western Essex

HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston
FRED T. VICKERS, Wenham
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen
JOSEPH E. HASWELL, Methuen

FRED F. HALL, Springﬁeld
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin

HARRY C. SMITH, Worcester Worcester
CHARLES E. BROWN, Attleboro, Bristol and Plymouth

HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
T. KING HASWELL, Pittsﬁeld Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen
W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Other Small Animal Shelters of M. S. P. C. A.
Boston, 170-184 Longwood Avenue
Springﬁeld, 53-57 Bliss Street
Pittsfield, 224 Cheshire Road
Attleboro, 3 Commonwealth Avenue
Hyannis, State Road, Rte. 28, Centerville
Wenham, Cherry Street

SEPTEMBER REPORT OF THE OFFICERS
OF THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P'. C. A.,
WITH HEADQUARTERS AT BOSTON,
METHUEN, SPRINGFIELD, PITTSFIELD,
ATTLEBORO, WENHAM, HYANNIS, WOR-
CESTER, FITCHBURG, NORTHAMPTON,
HAVERHILL, HOLYOKE, ATHOL, COVER-
ING THE ENTIRE STATE.

Miles traveled by humane officers . . 1733]
Cases investigated ...... . . . . . . . 339
Animals examined . . . . . . . . ..... 7333
Animals placed in homes . . . ..... 298
Lost animals restored to owners. . 80
Number of prosecutions . . . ..... 5
Number of convictions 4
Horses taken from work ....... 20
Horses humanely put to sleep . . . . 53
Small animals humanely put to sleep 2,466
Horse auctions attended . . . . . . . . 12
Stockyards and Abattoirs
Animals inspected . . . ........ . . 75,618
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep ................ 37

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals
184 Longwood Avenue. Telephone. Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

E. F. SCHROEDER, D.V.M., Chief of Staff
R. H. SCHNEIDER, v.M.D., Asst. Chief
G. B. SCHNELLE, v.M.D.

T. O. MUNSON, v.M.D.

C. L. BLAKELY, v.M.D.
M. S. ARLEIN, D.V.M.

L. H. SCAMMAN, D.V.M.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent
Springﬁeld Branch

Telephone 4-7355
53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.

Veterinarians
A. R. EVANS, v.M.D. H. L. SMEAD, D.V.M.

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR SEPTEMBER
At 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

Cases entered in Hospital .......... 928
Cases entered in Dispensary ...... 2,235
Operations ....................... 408

At Springﬁeld Branch, 53 Bliss Street

Cases entered in Hospital .......... 227
Cases entered in Dispensary ...... 707
Operations ....................... 114

At Attleboro Clinic, 3 Commonwealth Ave.

Cases entered .................... 87

Totals

Hospital cases Since opening, Mar.
1, 1915 ....................... 198,900
Dispensary cases ............... 502,181

 

.............. 701,081

Branches and Auxiliaries
MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Northampton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—MIss
EMILY HALE, Pres.; MISS MILDRED MOULTON, Treas.

Great Barrington Branch of Mass. S. P. O. A.—
MRS. ROBERT MAGRUDER, Pres.; MRS. DONALD WORTH-
INGTON, Treas.

Holyoke Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—MRs. AARON
C. BAGG, Pres.; MRS. ROBERT E. NEWCOMB, Treas.

Springfield Branch Auxiliary—MRS. CARLTON H.
GARINGER, Pres. ; MRS. RICHARD A. BOOTH, Treas.
Second Thursday.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary—MRS. RICHARD S.
TAYLOR, Pres. ; MRS. JOHN HAMILTON CLARKE, Treas.

Boston Work Committee of Mass. S. P. C. A.—MRS.
GEORGE D. COLPAS, Chairman.

Veterinary Column

1. Question: I have a male cat three
years Old. For the past week he has been
limping, and now his paw is swollen and
he doesn’t step on that foot at all. What
is the cause Of this condition and what
can be done?

Answer: From your description the
condition is probably due to an infec-
tion. Such an infection might arise sub-
sequent tO a bite or scratch from another
cat. Sometimes these infections will form
an abscess and break Open, discharging
pus. More Often they must be treated
surgically at the proper time. Your vet-
erinarian should be consulted in all cases.

Page 211

2. Question: How should minor cuts
and bruises be treated in the case Of cats
and dogs?

Answer: The ﬁrst measure tO be taken
in treating minor wounds on a cat or
dog, is tO cut away all hair near the
wound, so that the wound is not touched
by any hair. Beauty must be sacriﬁced
for the time being. The cut should then
be washed free of all dirt, loose hair, or
other debris. Warm water and mild soap
are best for this purpose. The wound is
then rinsed "in clean warm water. Then
paint the cut with two per cent Mercuro-
chrome, tincture Of iodine, tincture Of
metaphen, or some similar antiseptic.
After care consists Of keeping the wound
free from dirt. If infection takes place,
your veterinarian should be consulted.
Never place a tight bandage around an
animal’s legs or tail.

3. Question: My ﬁve months Old
puppy has distemper. Is it possible for
my little girl and baby to catch this dis-
ease?

Answer: As far as is now known,
canine distemper is not transmissible to
human beings.

4. Question: I have a Persian cat,
three years Old. He scratches our furni-
ture with his claws, and we cannot make
him stop. Would it be best to have his
claws cut?

Answer: Cutting the cat’s claws
would only furnish a temporary solution
to your problem, as the claws would be-
come sharp again in a few weeks’ time.
Sometimes a “scratching spot” may be
furnished for a cat, and he may be
trained to use it. It can be made by
covering a piece Of wood with several
layers Of burlap, or Old carpeting, and
they should be placed near the cat’s fa-
vorite haunts.

5. Question: Should a short-haired
dog be allowed to sleep out Of doors dur-
ing the winter?

Answer: If a dog is used to being kept
out of doors all the time, he may be
allowed to sleep out of doors, provided
that a comfortable shelter is supplied.
The prime requisites Of “comfortable”
being draft free, and the provision Of
plenty Of clean dry bedding. The short-
haired dog, especially Of toy breeds,
should be kept indoors at night in the
winter. Heat in the room is not neces-
sary if good bedding is provided and
drafts are eliminated.

L. H. S., Veterinary Dept.,
Angell Animal Hospital

Endowed stalls and kennels are
needed in the Angel] Memorial Animal
Hospital. Payments Of thirty-ﬁve dol-
lars for a kennel or seventy-ﬁve dollars
for a stall will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Humane literature and Band at Mercy Supplies

For sale by the American Humane Education Society and the Massachusetts 5. P. C. A._

180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass, at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold-face. type are of books or booklets

 

‘ Our Dumb Animals, 1940. bound “Hum“ $1.00 Fort-word from “Michael Brother of Jerry”$0.30per 100
New England Our Dumb Animals, 1930, 1937, and 193:)
bound volume, each .................. .75 Humane Education

Colored Posters, 17 X 28 inches, attrac—

I TUSt company tive pictures and verses, six in set .. 1.00 The Animal or the Child, I‘r. Rowley.. Free
llumune I‘lducation, by Dr. Francis H.

Colored Posters, 17 x 22 inches, eight in

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
  
 

Boston the set ................ 5 cts. each; eight for 35 cts. Izuwh-y ............................... Frog
Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 6% )1 33/8 $0,50per100 The Relation of the Home to Character
Formation, llr. Francis H. Rowley Free
About the Horse llumane Education and Spiritual Values,
. . Dr. Rowley .......................... Free
AdmlﬂlStCI'S BCQUCSES Black Beauty (English), cloth .......... 50 cts. For Parents and Teachers, Plan Of Work hree
‘ n . . A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ....... Free
. 'lhe Horse—treatment of Sores, etc. ”$0.00 per 100 ,, . .
to Charlty Humane Education Leaflet, No. 5 ...... .50 “ “ lhe Humane Bulletin, for use 1n SChOOlS
The Horse’s Prayer 3 .. .. 06 pp. .................. 12 cents each; ten for $1.00
Ed ° S ° Th, 1,,” ,f At -i ye ' 1"l'”t'."'11"_"' L” .. .. (fare and Kindness for Our Anmla-l
ucat10n_ Clence ' (I t 0 A I ' 10 m )‘V Am“ i (m " "t Friends, 32 pp., paper covers, many
illus. .................. 10 cts. each; twelve for $1.00
About the D03; Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp,. 10 cts.; twelve for $1.00
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-
. Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50. . . . . . . . . .small, 50 cts. catign, 32 pp_ ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, each, 10 cts.
Mam OH'lCC Distemper in DogS, DI‘. Schneider ------ Free An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.
, Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider Free Gilbert, 48 pp_ 1901- first and second
135 DevonShlre SttCEt Eulogy on the Dog, by VESt’ l’()5t’("31'd $1.00per 100 grades ................................ each 10 cts.
The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease .0” " “ “Be Kind to Animals” pennants ...... each 25 cts.
. Suggestions for Feeding Dogs - - - - -- - - - -- 2-00 ” ” The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.
COTD€T Of Mllk St. Important Advice on Feeding the Dog lowley ............................... cloth, 35 cts.
and the Cat ”— by Dr- Rt‘dOth “3 . Friends and Helpers (selections for
Schneider -------------------------- 1ﬁt) ” " school use) Sarah J. Eddy ............ cloth, $1.00
Humane Education Leaflets, NOS- 3 and 4 450 ” ” A Place for Pets, play .......2 cts. each; six for 10c.
The Story of Barry .................... .3 “ “ The llgl\'—T—A——Club, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 27“,;
BaCk Bay BranCh BOOtS’ Day, Play, for tWO boys and three “And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,”
girls .................... 3 cts. each; five for 10 cts. play ........................ 3 cts. each; ten for 25c.
99 NCWbury Street Friends of Fur and Feather, play ......
‘ About the Bird 3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.
‘ Humane Sunday ...................... 1c. each
' The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus. ...... cloth, $0.45 l’ll Never Hunt Again, play 3 cts. each; five for 10 cts.
KEEP YOUR DOGS Humane, Education Leaflets, Nos. 1 and 2 $0.50 per 100 The Best Gift, play ....... 2 cts. each; six for 10 cts.
HOW the Birds Help the Farmer ........ .50 “ “ Humane Exercises ...................... $1.50 per 100
The Air—Gun and the Birds .............. .50 H “ 11u111311e Education the Vital Need, Dr,

5‘ 0‘

Rowley, short radio address, 2cts. each; 50
Humane Education, What to Teach and

How to Teach It ...................... .50 “ “
Outlines of Study in Humane Education 1.50
Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty .. .50 “ “

 
 

About the Cat

The Cat—«Its Care in Health and Disease.$0.00 per 100

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

" ' " ’ The Cat in Literature .................. .50 “ “ H _ -0 .. ..
N E M A Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve .. .50 “ “ 3 1&1: W1“; theATfBaClieI‘ ltado .0
“The B war (3 t,” t— _ . r- .. .. ur ove or nima s, a s10r r 1
egg a DOS card, 6 cts dOZ '00 address .................... 2 cts. each; 1.00 “ “
w o R M CA P S U L E S . A Festival of Tender Mercies .......... .50 “ “
lUSe Nema gapsules to remove About Other Animals Needd 1i): tngmaéleF Educatiloln Societies e0 .. ..
arge rOun Worms and hOok- . . , ‘ _ all e 10 S O OI'mlng 18m ........ .U
worms. Effective—D d bl The Strike at Shanes cloth, 30 cts. .. pape1,: cts. How to Organize a Society for the
F R E E Sendelzen Na 6. For l’ity’s Sake ........................ paper, 5 cts. Protection of Animals 50 ..
or ema The Great C'ruelty Again, Dr. Rowley.. Free . , """""""" '
W' . booklet No.§52. First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp.$1.00 per 100 Ineldents about Ammals, by Geo. T' ‘ ..
rrle to Anrmal Industry Dept. Desk N081: . . , - .. H Angell ................................. 1.00 ‘
PARKE DAVIS & CO DET'ROIT MICH Gripped 1n the Teeth of Steel, '2 pp. .00
Drug Stores SerrParié-Davis Prod’ucts ' HOW to K111 Animals Humanely, 4 pp.1.00 “ “ Band of Mercy
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 6, Animals .50 “ “
Ways Of Kindness ....................... .50 “ “ “Be Kind to Animals Buttons,” three
Compliments 0f Humane Eiducatlon Leaflet, No. 7, Farm .. .. styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So- ,
Animals ............................... .50 Ciety, or S. P. C. A. .................. $1.00 per 100
GALLUP and HADLEY A W'ise Fish ............................ .50 “ “ Buttons—white star on blue ground with
Attorneys and Counsellors-at-Law Care of Rabbits ........................ .50 “ “ gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00 “ “
DA . Hints on the Care of Cows .............. .50 “ “ Badges, gold flnlsh, large, 10 cts., small 5 cts.
AA T. GALLUP 6 BEACON ST.. Directions for the Care of Swine ........ 1.00 “ “ “Band of Mercy” pennant .............. 35 cts.
EDWIN W. HADLEY BOSTON, MASS. Professor Frog’s Lecture, 8 pp. ...... .. .75 “ “ Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.
Why the Toad is so Useful ....... .30 “ “ J. Eddy ............................... 50 cts.
Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words
The Jack London Club only) .................. .. ....$3.00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ..... .50 “ “
NEW EANSG‘SI—ggll: ?NTLGAMBLING Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts. HOW to Form Bands Of Mercy --------- - .50 “ "
T ON' INC- What is the Jack London Club? ........ $0.301 per 100 Does it Pay. Story of one Band of Mercy .30 “ “
6 BEACON ST.. BOSTON. MAss. -
“We compliment the M. s. P. c, A, on its Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1
noble lwork to prevent cruelty to racing
anlma s.”
EDWIN W_ HADLEY, President AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 L-ongw00d Ave., Boston, Mass.
Since 1832 ~PlMPLE“
J s WATERMAN & ‘ ‘
. SONS, lnc. THIS SPACE and Sirnllar unmghtly, externally
1a h t k - caused1rr1tatlons usuallyrelieved :
11 Pt a Prﬁ CONTRIBUTED by dally care With Cuticura Soap
BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE . and Olntment' Buy BOTH today!
City and out-of-town service V
. CUTICURASOAPaorNTMENT <

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 
 
    
 

GLORY TO
GOD,
PEACE ON EARTH,
KINDNEss, JUSTICE
AND MERCY TO
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

   
   
     
   

7
a
m
'2';

   

Founded by Geo. T. Angell Incorporated 1889

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Officers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President and Ch. Fi-
nance Com., United Shoe Machinery Corporation

CHARLES E. SPENCER, JR., President, First National
Bank of Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives
E. J. H. Escobar

_ _ .............. Colombia
Luis Pareja Cornejo ............ Ecuador
Charles A. Williams ............ France
Leonard T. Hawksley ,,,,,,,,,, Italy

0. Batra ........ . .......... India
Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe , ,, ..... Japan
Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton , , , , , ,Madeira
Dr. A. T. Ishkanian ,,,,,,,,,,,, Mexico
Mrs. Alice W. Manning ,,,,,,,, Turkey

Humane Press Bureau
Katharine H. Piper, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Field Workers of the Society
. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
. James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, South Carolina
Rev. R. E. Grifﬁth, De Land, Florida
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim

Field Representative
Dr. Wm. F. H. Wentzel, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF FIELD
WORKERS FOR SEPTEMBER, 1941

Number of Bands of Mercy formed, 140
Number of addresses made, 142

Number of persons in audiences, 22,398

To Help Retired Workers

E are receiving gifts to the Ameri-

can Humane Education Society as a
trust fund, the interest to be used for the
beneﬁt of ﬁeld missionaries and others who
have spent their lives in promoting humane
education. Already several cases have come
to our attention and are being relieved in

this way. We will welcome your contribu-
tlon to this fund.

Please make checks payable to Albert A.
Pollard, Treasurer, American Humane Edu-
cation Society, 180 Longwood Avenue, Bos-
ton, and specify that the amount con-

tributed is for the Humane Ed '
Trust Fund. ucatlon

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

The Boston School Committee
and Humane Education

SPECIAL course on Humane Edu-

cation and Allied Problems in Con—
servation will be included in the after-
noon courses of the Boston School De-
partment. The course aims to interpret
the present—day conception of humane
education, to determine the place of hu-
mane education and the interrelated
phases of conservation in the total edu-
cational program and to suggest vital
teaching procedures.

It is purposed to work out a plan so
that each teacher will be assisted in
arranging her individual problem in the
study of animal life and the interrelated
problems of protection and conservation.

The Boston School Committee is to be
highly commended for placing this very
important topic among the list of the
subjects for the special courses in the
Teachers’ College in the city of Boston.
Great credit should be given to Miss
Julia E. Dickson, supervisor of elemen-
tary education in the Boston Teachers’
College, who arranged for this and who
will personally conduct the series. Prom-
inent humane educators and specialists
will address the teachers in service.

Mr. Barnwell of Texas

Among the valued ﬁeld workers of
the American Humane Education So-
ciety is the Rev. F. R. Barnwell, who
has served the Society for twenty-ﬁve
years in connection with his work as
director of Negro Health. For his activi-
ties in humane and health education, Mr.
Barnwell is known not alone in Texas but
throughout the South. He resides at 1328
Louisiana Avenue, Fort Worth.

Recently the Fort Worth Mind pub-
lished a large picture of Mr. and Mrs.
Barnwell with their two daughters and
ﬁve sons, with an account of this remark-
able family which stands so high in that
city, regardless of race. Mr. Barnwell is
acclaimed as an outstanding educator,
orator and man of civic inﬂuence. Mrs.
Barnwell is an accomplished music teach-
er, having prepared for her work in
several educational institutions and, as
late as 1938, having graduated with
highest honors from Prairie View Col-
lege. The seven children have all been
educated in the best available schools, and
one is now a teacher. Another, mother of
four children, is a musician. Still another
is a building contractor, while the
younger ones are all giving promise of
distinguished accomplishments. Mr. and
Mrs. Barnwell are justly proud of their
children, whom they encourage to think
for themselves.

Write to 180 Longwood Ave., Boston,
for prices of humane literature and
Band of Mercy supplies.

 

-Nov. 1941

American Fondouk, Fez

SEND you hereafter copy of my Re-
port for July:

Daily average large animals: 8.
Entries: 3 horses, 4 mules, 25 donkeys.
Exits: 5 horses, 4 mules, 26 donkeys.
Out-patients :
2 cats, 1 dog.

105 horses, 74 mules, 322 donkeys,

ONE OF THE 408 NATIVE
FONDOUKS INSPECTED
Fondo-uks visited
Animals inspected
Animals treated .............................. 582
Animals sent to Hospital
Pack-saddles (infected) destroyed
Arab—bits destroyed
Animals transported to Hospital
Animals sent by Police Dept.
Animals put to. sleep ...... 2 (1 mule and 1 mare)
The amount of our expenses for July is $207.06.

Very sincerely yours,

GUY DELON,
Superintendent

Humane Education in
Michigan

From Miss Edna L. Apel, chairman of
Humane Education for the Michigan
Congress of Parents and Teachers,
comes the report that humane education
work is progressing very well in Michi-
gan. Miss Ape] presented the subject
effectively at the annual meeting of the
Michigan Federation of Humane Soci-
eties, also before inﬂuential gatherings
of P. T. A. workers in Lansing and in
Flint. The Michigan Parent-Teacher
carried a special appeal from her for
the proper observance of Be Kind to
Animals Week. A similar appeal was
sent in a circular letter to all the school
superintendents in the state, about 550.

 




 

 

o _‘. r” can», .. .4 .\

 

 

 

 

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to

Entered as second-class matter,
Acceptance for mailing at special ,rate 0

0.1- “GE

umb

{ \ .
U, S.Trade MarkRegistered I) 1

LL m 1868.AND FOR Fomy.

for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,

Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,

Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
——COWPER

ONE YEARS 1??
The Massachusetts Society (S)

GLohv 'ro
GOD,

PEACE on EARTH,

AND MERCY 'r‘o
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

 

Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts,

June 29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass., under the Act of March 3, 1879
f postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Boston Ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

Vol. 74

October, 1941

No. 10

 

Still the black shadow of this world-
wide and million-murdering war hangs
dark over the homes and hearts of men.
We hope today; we dread the news of
tomorrow. All because of the madness,
the crime, the selﬁshness of a mere hand-
ful of men looked upon as the leaders of
nations.

In accordance with the practice inaug-
urated last year, the Massachusetts
S. P. C. A. presented plaques, suitably
inscribed, for the best handling of teams
in pulling contests at the various county
fairs this autumn.

We hear from Great Britain that
British authorities destroyed nearly a
million dogs and cats as a humane meas—
ure in anticipation of bombing and per-
haps poison gas. Now the step is re-
gretted, it is said, as the animal life of
Britain is standing up well under the
strain.

More dog-food is to be placed on the
market in England, according to a let-
ter of the Parliamentary Secretary, than
has been permitted. The allocation, it is
reported, was one—third of the pre-war
consumption, which is now being raised
to one-half, though no promise is held
out as to what can be done in the future.

Of six men arrested at a cock-ﬁght
recently in California, one of them paid
a ﬁne of twenty-ﬁve dollars; the others
were ordered to serve jail sentences of
twelve and a half days, in lieu of pay»-
ment of similar ﬁnes. And cock—ﬁghting
still goes on in a civilized country—even
Massachusetts occasionally disgraced by
one of these exhibitions held in some
secluded and secret enclosure.

The Mink Fur Business

. OW many minks are caught by
traps or other devices for furnish-
ing milady with her beautiful fur gar—
ment we do not know, but in a report
just issued by the United States Depart—
ment of the Interior, we are told that
in 1940 some 400,000 ranch-raised mink
skins were produced in the United
States.

It is needless to say that these little
fur—bearers must be given, even for eco-
nomic reasons, the utmost care and at—
tention to keep them in good health so
that their skins should reach the mar-
ket in the ﬁnest possible condition.

Humane Societies have long been in-
terested in the method by which these
ranch-bred fur—bearers are ultimately
put to sleep. There have been charges of
cruelty, life being extinguished by meth-
ods that must have caused in many in—
stances acute suffering.

In the report above referred to, how-
ever, the method of killing is described
as follows:

“There are several methods of killing
minks, but most of them are based upon
the principle of conﬁnement in a small,
air-tight box having a small hole through
which can be introduced some kind of
lethal gas, as carbon monoxide from the
exhaust of a car, cyanogas, chloroform,
or carbon tetrachloride. If the exhaust
of a car is used, provision should be
made to guard against the hot fumes
striking the animal and singeing the
fur.”

We should judge from the above that
the methods described are far more hu-
mane than those under which so great
a mass of our food animals are de-
stroyed.

Must You Have a Fur Coat?

HEN you look for one, do you in-

quire to learn whether the skin
comes from what is known as the “white
list”——that is, a skin from such animals
as the fox, the mink, the rabbit, the
pony, the sheep, the Persian lamb or
the American broadtail—that are raised
on ranches and that are, it is pretty
safe to say, humanely killed, or are
you willing to take the skin of one
caught in the jaws of the heartlessly
cruel steel trap?

The Problem of the Pigeon

THE London pigeon has been encour-
aged for generations to reproduce it-
self and expected to ﬁnd its nourishment
from the crumbs that “fall from the
Cockney’s table.” Now, we are told that
it is illegal there to supply pigeons even
with crumbs, and there is evidence that
many of them are starving.

The problem of the pigeon is a serious
one. Nearly everyone loves to see these
ﬂocks of birds in our cities, many re—
membered them in the great square in
Venice. Children are interested in
watching them, and undoubtedly have
their attention called by the presence of
the bird to their relation to animal life
and encouraged to‘treat all sentient life
kindly, but the damage they do in many
cases is excessive. Buildings are deﬁled
by them and, in many instances, so seri—
ous is the damage done that the law,
though protecting them, permits the
catching of them humanely in traps
when injuring property and humanely
putting them to sleep.

Our Society has many times found
it most difﬁcult to know what to say to
those whose property is being defaced.

 

 

 




 

 

Nov. 1941

The Deadline Crossed

HAT fatal Dutch elm disease, which

has destroyed so many thousands of
our beautiful elms south of the Massa-
chusetts line, has ﬁnally been discovered
in the Berkshire town of Alford, west of
Great Barrington, only a half mile from
the New York State line. The infected
tree has been cut down and burned, and
a conference of Federal and State au-
thorities has been held with representa—
tives of various conservation organiza-
tions. The ﬁrst step to be taken will be
a thorough scientiﬁc survey of the region
about Alford to determine the extent of
the outbreak and to remove immediately

any other diseased trees which may be
found.

The fatal fungus which causes this
disease was ﬁrst discovered in Holland
in 1919, and is believed to have been
brought to this country in about 1930.
In some sections of Europe the elms
have been practically wiped out. In this
country about 63,000 trees have been
attacked, causing their destruction, while
more than 5,000,000 other elms of low
quality have been removed to check the
spread of the disease.

Many still remember the story of that
other foreign fungus, the chestnut
blight, which robbed us of the rare
American chestnut tree. Every dollar
sent to the Massachusetts Forest and
Park Association, Charles F. Adams,
treasurer of the Dutch Elm Disease

Committee, State Street Trust Company, '

Boston, Mass., will be just one more
dollar to help destroy this threatening
foe of our glorious elms.

Striking Humane Calendar
for 1942

The 1942 HUMANE CALENDAR
presents a remarkable colored picture,
7 x 10% inches, showing George Wash-
ington, Patrick Henry and Edmund
Pendleton, mounted on splendid horses,
riding away from Mount Vernon to at-
tend the First Continental Congress at
Philadelphia. It is a scene of great his-
torical importance, and is one of the best
pictures that the well-known Osborne
Company has ever had.

With an attractive pad, 2% X 41/;
inches, the cardboard measures 12 x 15
inches, and will be mailed ﬁat.

Prices: 20 cents each; two for 35
cents; three for 50 cents; 12 for $1.75;
postpaid, when sent to the same address.
If sent separately, regardless of the
number, the price is 20 cents each.

Orders with special imprint of So-
cieties can be ﬁlled only if sent at once.
Address,

Secretary, AMERICAN HUMANE
EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood
Avenue, Boston, Mass.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

New England Federation

HE Massachusetts S. P. C. A. will be

host to the delegates attending the
all-day annual meeting of the New Eng-
land Federation of Humane Societies,
Thursday, November 6, in the assembly
room on the third ﬂoor of the Society’s
building at 180 Longwood Avenue, Bos-
ton. At the morning session, 10 A. M.,
there will ﬁrst be a business meeting of
the Massachusetts Federation, with Her-
bert W. Cooper, of Worcester, presiding.
Following will be the business meeting
of the New England Federation, with
Robert F. Sellar, of Boston, presiding.

After greetings by President Francis
H. Rowley there will be an address on
“Pulling Contests at Fairs,” by Alfred
W. Lombard, assistant director of the
Massachusetts Department of Agricul-
ture, followed by Carlton E. Buttrick,
director of Humane Education of the
Connecticut Humane Society, who will
speak on “The Adult in Humane Educa—
tion.” Discussions will be in order after
each address.

Topics for the afternoon session in-
clude “Distemper in Dogs,” by Dr. E. F.
Schroeder, chief veterinarian of the
Angell Animal Hospital, and “Some
Problems in Animal Surgery,” by Dr. C.
L. Blakely, also of the Angell Hospital
staff. Both addresses will be followed by
discussion and a question period. There
will then 'be an open forum for the dis-
cussion of any topic that may be brought
up, followed by elections of ofﬁcers.

After adjournment, there will be a
conducted tour through the Angell Ani-
mal Hospital.

All India S. P. C. A.

It will probably come as a surprise to
many readers to learn that the federa-
tion of Societies for animal welfare in
India numbers no less than 78 Societies
and branches, covering all sections of
that great country. The annual report for
1940 includes 62 large pages, with con-
densed reports from all these local organ-
izations, many of which have paid in-
spectors. In Bareilly 15,614 animals
were treated in the Society’s hospital;
the Calcutta Society had 7,941 prosecu-
tions, with 7,372 convictions for cruelty;
the Ganjam Branch celebrated “Animal
Welfare Week” December 15 to 21; the
Mysore State Society reports that both
His Highness the Maharaja and the
Dowager Maharani became patrons of
the Society. These are but a few ex-
amples which show the general scope and
prominence of the various Societies in
India. This elaborate report concludes
with 21 suggestions for organizing S. P.
C. A. work.

Join the Jack London Club and help
stop cruelty in trained animal acts.

Page 213

Teaching Children to Love
and Protect Animals

HENRY H. GRAHAM

HILDREN are rarely too young to
receive instruction regarding kind-
ness to animals. The earlier they are en—
couraged to treat animals with tender-
ness and loving care the better, for chil»
dren are impressionable. The habits they
form often go with them through life.
When my nephews were very young I
talked to them often about bird and ani—
mal life, striving to instill in their
hearts a love of furred and feathered
creatures. Frequently I took them with
me on nature rambles during the course
of which we studied wild life. If any of
the creatures we studied possessed unde-
sirable traits I either ignored them or
minimized them. That, I think, is a wise
practice unless the animal is all bad,
which is seldom the case. There are
always plenty of virtues on which to
enlarge. An effort should be made to
dwell on the creature’s strong points——
its beneﬁts to man, its devotion to its
family and so forth.

Very often there are opportunities to
impress on the youngsters’ minds the
desirability of kindness, not only to
dumb animals but to human beings as.
well. On the rare occasions when I saw
a man working an old horse pretty hard.
I talked to him about it in a friendly
fashion. I talked with boys who used
air riﬂes to shoot at birds, proving to
them how wrong it was. If practised on
a large scale by adults and children such.
crusading would be of inestimable value.

Both wild and domestic life were used
as subjects when I was with my nephews.
The beautiful, striped chipmunk of the
mountains came in for his share of at-
tention and the boys were encouraged to
feed the little fellows at the back door.
The beauty and devotion of horses and
dogs to their masters was stressed. I
even brought out the fact that the skunk
was not an ugly animal as some people
think but that its scent was provided by
the Creator as a defense against enemies.

Today my nephews are all lovers and
protectors of wild creatures.

Popular Leaflets Revised

The two popular leaﬂets, “The Dog—
Its Care in Health and Disease” and
“The Cat—Its Care in Health and Dis--
ease,” after having passed through sev-
eral editions, have been thoroughly re-
vised by the veterinary department of
the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital.
Samples with the new text will be mailed
free to any address. In quantities, the
price is 60 cents per 100 copies, postpaid.

Please remember the American Hu-
mane Education Society in your will.

 

 

 




)_A_.,._ -9.“ ._ car..._- ans-a” -

. a? -1-_.:5-~.*.r "‘ ‘ 1w

I my”- nmw-.~9 ~_ ._ -.....

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 181;

Animals in Amusement
Concessions
LOUISE DARCY

IT always seems pitiful to me to see
animals used in the big, crowded
amusement concessions at the beach. The
animals look tired or cross; some of
them do not look well fed. All of them
look unhappy.

At one concession at a beach they
have donkeys hitched to small carts con-
tinually pulling children through a dark
tunnel. The beasts plod around endlessly
in the dark without air and light except
for the few seconds when they come to
the end of their monotonous route. They
look patient and terribly sad.

Over there, performing dogs are on
exhibition. A whip is cracked and the
dogs tumble over each other mechani-
cally. Their eyes are red and their fur
is matted. After the show they are
herded into a back room until the next
performance.

The owners of the animals grow tired
and irritable. They are abrupt with their
charges. A donkey is kicked; a dog is
hit with a whip.

A parrot is urged to talk, and a cageful
of parakeets ﬂutter each time people
come too near.

It seems odd that so many people can-
not realize that animals have feelings,
that they do not like to go into abnor-

mal places and occupations. Animals.

should be as free as humans, not conﬁned
or trained and forced to be other than
they are.

Noise and constant teasing by chil-
dren make animals very nervous. Here
are some small monkeys in a cage under-
neath the roller coaster. Each time the
car roars over their heads, they jump
nervously like human beings. Children
poke them with sticks, feed them too
much of everything. They look sad and
discouraged.

Some day the time may come when
human beings will cease to entertain
themselves with the discomfort of ani-
mals, when they will spend as much time
to see that animals are
free and contented as
they do to visit them in
their unnatural places of
captivity.

Let us hope that will
be soon. An unhappy
animal is a memory that
does not leave the mind
easily. A sensitive and
humane person does not
like to see friends of fur
and feather treated like
clowns and prisoners.

Have you. read Jack
London’s book, “Mi-
chael Brother of Jerry”?

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

At the Rodeo
Lalia Mitchell Thornton

Somehow I cannot cheer;
What hurt, what fear,
Lies back of bucking bronchos in the ring?
And when these steers essay
To throw their riders, pray
How were they taught this most unnatural
thing?
I add one saving line—-
The horsemanship is fine;
But when to give a brutal crowd delight
They rope and tie a calf
I cannot laugh
Sensing the fear that prompts his futile
flight.

Speaking of Hunting

“It seemed suddenly a brutal and mur-

derous thing — the game we saw inno-
cently minding its own business, bother-
ing nobody —— and here we were going

among them dealing death and destruc-
tion, to amuse ourselves! If we had been
killing because of necessity —— because
we needed the food or in self defense ——
but to kill just for sport —— it was wan-
ton murder,” writes “Gaddis” in “A
Song in Her Heart.”

“They (the hunters) will drive back
later, with a murdered deer strung
across their running-board, proud as
Punch, that with their guns and their
guides and with every modern murder-
weapon on their side, they were able to
destroy a ﬁne up—standing young animal
that never did anybody any harm, and
that, as like as not, had a mate and baby
somewhere in the swamp, to die without
his protection. A ﬁne manly sport, this
hunting business!”

Join the Jack London Club, which
now has more than 806,500 members,
all pledged to do all in their power to
stop cruelties in training animals for
stage or screen. Write to 180 Longwood
Avenue, Boston, for full particulars and

samples of literature pertaining to this
subject.

 

CLOSE-UP VIEW OF THE CHUCKWALLA

Oct. 1941

Protect the Chuckwalla
WELDON D. WOODSON

ITHIN certain wilderness areas of

Western Arizona, southern Ne-
vada and Utah, and the Mojave Desert
and Death Valley regions of California,
there exists a foot—in-length lizard called
the chuckwalla. It is grayish in color,
and sometimes has a white tail. Its skin
is loose and baggy, like that of an ele-
phant’s hide. To the uninitiated it, be-
cause of its resemblance in miniature
to a dinosaur, may be conceived of as
being dangerous. In reality, though, it
is incapable of causing the least injury
to a human being. If captured its only
protest is a ﬂip of its tail. Not only is
it harmless in regard to man, but it
eats no animal life, being wholly herbiv-
orous. In winter it hibernates, and dur-
ing the summer months it feeds upon
the ﬂower-bud or leaf-parts of the na-
tive vegetation.

And yet, despite its innocence, human-
kind since earliest times has made it a
habit to slaughter the creatures. The In-
dians, including the Shoshones, the
Cahuillas and the P‘ahutes, sought these
lizards and used them as food, which,
it has been attested, when roasted over
hot coals tastes not unlike chicken.

They would track down the lizard in
its arid, volcanic stamping grounds.
When one would detect the Indian hunts-
men, into the nearest rock-crevice it
would scuttle, and there inﬂate its loose,
baggy skin. Thus blown up, it by being
much larger than when it squeezed itself
into the crack could not under natural
conditions be pulled out. The Indians,
however, employed the cruel practice of
taking a sharp—pointed stick and jabbing
it into the hide of the creature. This
would deﬂate it, just as a mischievous
boy might puncture an automobile tire.
After this they would reach down into
the rock—crack and extract the lizard.
The Indian as a justiﬁcation for his act
averred that only by this means could
he obtain food to keep himself alive.

But without even this excuse, modern
man has destroyed this creature. Re-
cently I took a trip to some of the habi-
tats of the chuckwalla and found that
persons had used the lizards for target
practice, and in not a few instances had
hit the mark. The skeletons of the‘crea-
tures, there bleaching in the sun, re-
vealed to what extent mankind will go
to appease his lust for thrills.

In opposition to this wanton destruc-
tion, naturalists, lovers of the desert and
advocates of prevention of cruelty to ani-
mals have undertaken by word of mouth
and by the printed page to point out to
the public the interest which these crea-
tures hold. The chuckwalla, one of the
most picturesque members of our desert
fauna, deserves to be protected.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Page 214

Cats at Whistler House

JAMES A. DECKER

TIGER kitten, bewildered and for-

lorn, was literally blown into the
door of the Whistler House here in
Lowell during the disastrous hurricane
of 1938. It could hardly have chosen a
more hospitable place. Mrs. Elfrieda E.
Poore, the caretaker, became quite
attached to the animal, dubbing it
“Checkers” because of an abundance of
spots on the abdomen which actually re-
semble a checkerboard.

On last July 10, the exact date of the
great artist’s birth, Checkers presented
Mrs. Poore with one kitten. Another un-
usual fact is that the kitten, like its
mother, possesses a distinct “M” on the
forehead a little above the eyes._ It has
been said that this may stand for Mc-
Neill, the maiden name of Whistler’s
mother.

Numerous visitors to the renowned
house have offered to adopt the kitten,
but Mrs. Poore has declined. For the
time being, anyway, it will reside at the
Whistler House with its proud mother
and mistress.

Congratulations to The Cat Digest,
Cincinnati, and to its editor, Dorothy
\Grubler, upon the completion of the ﬁrst
successful year of this interesting pub-
lication.

 

A PET LIKE THIS BRINGS CHEER
AND HAPPINESS TO THE HOME

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

N 0?). 191,1

Children Need Pets

LOUISE PRICE BELL

HILDREN need pets. They are an

essential part of their rearing and
far more important to their character
development than many things harped
on by theorists. Yet many home-s today
in which there are children are without
pets, and the reasons given are little
short of alibis. For it seems like a back-
handed state of affairs when youngsters
grow up in homes where there are no
pets and then as soon as the fledglings
have left the nest, the lonely parents
take unto themselves a dog. They seek
the very companionship of which they
have been robbing their growing chil-
dren, yet we see this being done every
day, in all its inconsistency.

Pets offer youngsters much more than
companionship. Through no other chan-
nel can the little ones more naturally and
enjoyably learn to accept and revel in
real responsibility than through caring
for their domestics. Any child feels very
important knowing that it is his job to
keep his dog’s water pan clean and ﬁlled
with fresh water at all times, to see that
he is properly fed and bathed, that he is
kept free from ﬂeas and other canine
worrles.

Then there’s the matter of loyalty——
one of the most desirable qualities a
human can possess yet far too rarely
found in its true sense. Men and
women who think they are loyal
can take lessons from a dog any
day in the week; nothing will
swerve him from his constancy
as the most minute things often
do with mere humans.

Children reared in the country
learn the “facts of life” right
along with their ﬁrst words, and
accept them just as easily and
naturally. Pets in city or town
homes can do the same; they
can help the timid parents to
leap the barrier which to many
appears so unsurmountable. And
the child will gain his knowledge
as a matter of course instead of
having it handed to him all
dolled up in fancy words at just
“the proper time.”

When the family dog has a lit-
. ter of puppies, the house cat
5 proudly lays wee balls of ﬂuff at
3 your feet, the tadpole turns into
a frog, and the canary is found
; still and cold on the bird-cage

ﬂoor, young children are being
schooled in some of life’s im-
portant lessons. It is fun to re-
joice in the new members of the
household, interesting to explain
about the frog, hard to hear
childish laughter stilled at sight
of little “Dickie.” But even as
your parent heart aches for

 

the childish sorrow, you know that the
experiences are valuable to the young-
sters, that it is wise that they see and
know about these things happening, that
birth and change and death are integral
parts of living. And when they see and
understand it in their pets, the whole
pattern of life becomes clear and simple
to them.

That animals have a deﬁnite place in
our lives is borne out by the fact that
many classics of literature featuring
them have endured generation after gen-
eration. Thus our children pore eagerly
over “Beautiful Joe,” “Black Beauty,”
and “Bob, Son of Battle” as eagerly as
we did, and as our parents did before us.
More recently such gems as “Bambi”
and other animal tales are taking their
place beside the old-timers and will
remain there for posterity.

Boys, girls, men, and women are bet-
ter persons through the knowledge they
gain from dogs and other domestic ani-
mals. And this knowledge can rightly be
gained only from association. Thus it is
gratifying to know that each year more
dogs become a part of family life, more
childish birthdays are long remembered
because of a pet—gift, and Santa Claus
adds more and more pets to his already
bulging pack. Pets are good companions
and as such are coming into their own.
Shops offer a bewildering array of pet
niceties for the comfort and health of
these family friends, from triple vita-
min-packed foods to poudre pour les
chiens. Not that the pets enjoy life
any more because of these modern
streamline luxuries, but it does show
that we are beginning to realize that
pets are important. And that means
that each year more children will enjoy
their companionship and learn lessons of
patience, discipline and loyalty from
them.

Pets

Rena Stotenburgh Travais

Of all regrets, the one supreme regret
Of manhood, looking back along the years,
Is voiced by one who never had a pet.

The lack of raiment leaves no lasting scar,
A humble home may be a source of pride,
But oh how lonely little children are

Who in a world of super-beings find
No one to love as they are being loved,
No creature looking to them to be kind.

Our readers are urged to clip from
“Our Dumb Animals” various articles
and request local editors to republish.
Such copies will be made good by us
upon application.

 




 

 

Nov. 1941

On the Death of an English
Bulldog

The poem on the “Death of a Favorite Cat” in the
September issue of Our Dumb Animals prompts me to
submit a sonn’et on the death of a favorite dog,
“Peggy,” a champion English bulldog. This is a
type which has been bred to such an unnatural shape
that the offspring can seldom be born as Nature in-
tended, and Peggy succumbed to the ordeal of a
Caesarian operation.

Poor little victim of the ruthless few,

Who glory in defying Nature's law,

Distorting forms created without flaw

To gratify their craze for something new.

Man's most devoted friend the sacrifice:
For she, alas! was powerless to stay
Her master's hand in his amusing play;

Her little loving life must pay the price.

Humanity too late would ease the pain
And seek to remedy, by surgeon’s skill,
The wrongs committed at a Sportsman’s

will;

Misshapen offspring bear the curse again.

And though abundant issue be the fruit,
The mother’s eyes are closed, her voice is

mute. ‘
Grace M. Bacon

The Master’s Voice

R. H. RUSSELL

“Get ’em out, ‘Scotty.’ ”

From the thickening smoke came the
voice of Frank Brown of Hudson, Michi—
gan, who had seen his barn blasted by
lightning and was frantically opening
the stanchions to loosen his 25 panic-
stricken dairy cows. The collie lunged
into the mass of trampling hoofs.

Frank knows Scotty. He knew that his
constant companion would die in the
ﬂames unless he could go out at the
heels of the last cow. With an encourag-
ing “at-a-boy,” he jumped in his car and
raced for help to save what he could of
his other buildings.

Later, the barn in ruins but the ﬁre
under control, Frank found the herd
rounded up and unhurt at a safe distance
down the lane and under the continued
protection of the faithful Scotty.

The use of coal as fuel was at one
time a capital offense in England. In
1804 the British Navy discouraged the
use of steam propulsion for vessels. The
ﬁrst telegraph wires were cut and the
ﬁrst railroad tracks were torn up as in-
ventions of the Devil. A school board
in Pennsylvania, in 1832, declared “Rail-
roads are impossible and rank inﬁdelity.
If God had intended that his intelli-
gent creatures should travel at that
frightful speed of seventeen miles an
hour by steam, He would have clearly
foretold it in the Holy Prophets. Such
things as railroads are devices of Satan
to lead immortal souls to Hell.”

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

‘\

JUDGE CHARLES S. MURPHY OF WORCESTER AND HIS ST. BERNARD

Page 215

 

DOGS, “BEAUTY” AND “BUCK,” AT HIS SUMMER ESTATE,
“SPORTVALE,” PAXTON, MASS.

A Dog’s Intuitive Power

NAN TURNER

HE would never take a prize for his

looks. Plain shepherds usually don’t,
you know. But the dog’s brain would
do justice to a blue blood of the ﬁrst
water. His human traits never fail to
amaze me. In fact, his intuition is some-
times uncanny, which is more than can
be said of the majority of humans. But
I have learned that this quality is not
uncommon in dogs. One scientist of the
Pavlovian Laboratory at Johns Hopkins
states that a dog’s brain is very much
like a man’s, both in structure and func-
tion; one reason being, he said, that be-
cause of their association with man they
have acquired “human” habits, both in
thought and action.

The incident I am about to relate
(apropos the intuitive power), proves
that dogs are more than just “dumb ani-
mals”; and they have, shall we say, a
sixth sense.

“Keno’s” master went on a long trip
across the continent. The dog was very
dejected for a few days but eventually
adjusted himself to the man’s absence.
Now, it so happened that there was a
particular chair in which the man al-
ways sat. One evening Keno nosed around
the chair, visibly uncomfortable. Then he
whined unpleasantly, which was unusual
for such a happy dog. His mistress, for
some unknown reason, glanced at the
clock, noting the exact time, 6:30 P. M.
She was somewhat nervous herself and
called tothe animal, “Come, Keno, let’s
take a walk.” He paid no attention to

/

her but continued to stay near the chair,
meanwhile annoying her with “throaty”
noises. “For goodness sakes, Keno, be-
quiet, you are getting on my nerves,”
she ﬁnally ejaculated. L

A few hours later a telegram came re~.
porting the man’s death. And, strange
as it may seem, he had died at 6 :30 P. M.

Since we are unable to account for-
this psychic quality in human beings,
certainly it is difﬁcult to understand the
same mental workings in a dog. But we
who love them, realize that by some 'un-
known power they are very much like
us; especially, when it comes to having
a premonition of an impending tragedy,

Cat Wins $500 Reward

An Associated Press dispatch from
Rye, New York, dated October 2, states
that Mrs. Burdsall’s cat found a pearl
necklace worth $7,500 and won a $500-
reward. .

Mrs. Elgood M. Lufkin reported loss
of the necklace and put a lost ad. in a
newspaper. Mrs. Burdsall returned the
necklace to Mrs. Lufkin, explaining that
she saw the cat playing with the neck
lace on her lawn. The insurance com-.
pany will pay the reward to the cat, Mrs,
Burdsall trustee.

Autumnal Slaughter

“See! from the brake the whirring pheasant
springs, ~
And mounts exulting on triumphant wings;
Short is his joy; he feels the fiery wound,
Flutters in blood and panting beats the
ground."

 

 

 

. ﬂ'?%w-:’F——mq— {W —~—- ”if”? .5» ..

 




 

 

 

 

Oct. 1941

 

“EFFIE,” A DAUGHTER OF MINNESOTA

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

We know from their ap-
pearance on the Egyptian
monuments and temples that
they dwelt placidly by the
Nile a long, long time ago.
They were there to see
Moses lead the Children of
Israel into the desert. The
Egyptians made a law
against killing cats because
of their usefulness in rid—
ding granaries of wasteful
pests. Arab history and lit-
erature proves that pussies
were loved by this people in
ages gone.

Cats turned up in India
at a very early date and also
in Persia, but 400 A. D. is
their ﬁrst date of mention
in China. But in the palmy
days of Greece and Rome
pussy seems to have been un-
wanted, for she is not in the
records of those times.

Happily for all of us who
are devoted to pussycats,
they occupy the places of
honor they deserve in these
modern days.

 

 

 

 

Hallowe’en and the Black Cats

NORMAN C. SCHLICHTER

HE black cat’s presence everywhere

on Hallowe’en dates back to the part
cats played in the Druid Festival of
Shaman, always held on October’s last
night.

This was a dark night indeed for those
early worshipers of the oak trees and
the mistletoe.

The Druid priests believed in Shaman
as the Lord of Death. Each midnight of
October Slst he called together the souls
of the wicked who had died during the
previous year and condemned them to
inhabit the bodies of animals. Great ﬁres
were built that night on forest altars,
round which the multitudes gathered in
grim silence. While the priests uttered
incantations against the evil powers the
witches and all other evil spirits came
out for revenge. Had it not been for the
pussycats which were held to be sacred
by the Druids at that time these spirits
might have won the day. But wherever
pussycats were that night the vilest of
the spirits of darkness would venture
only so far and no farther. '

Pussy’s sacred days were her greatest
ones in those remote times. Later she
fell from grace and was believed to be
herself in league with the Hallowe’en
forces of darkness, a belief still imagin-
ately adhered to by us on our Hallowe’en,
which explains the sight of the black
paper cats on every hand in late October
days.

HalIowe’en is a good time to recall
how truly ancient our pussies are.

Cat Travels 380 Miles Alone

An Associated Press dispatch, dated
August 20, tells of a Persian cat which
Robert G. Brown, of Phoenix, Arizona,
gave friends in San Diego, California,
14 months ago, being back home.

Brown said the friends advised him
last November that the cat disappeared
after they moved to a new apartment.
Whether the cat required more than nine
months to travel the 380 miles across
blistering desert and the Colorado river,
Brown doesn’t know.

He said it was footsore and thin, and
a bit wild, but otherwise showed no ill
effects of the long journey.

Humane Sunday, April 19, 1942; Be
Kind to Animals Week, April 20—25.

 

Page 185

Hallowe’en
Ka d ra Ma ysi

The friendly beasts, upon this hallowed
eve—

The beasts beloved by gentle saints of
old—

Are stirring in the wood where night winds
grieve

And autumn dulls the summer green to

gold.

They must have memory of ancient tales
In which they walked with brave and

holy men:
Saint Keneth of the Gulls, a prince of
Wales—
Saint Blaise who preached in wolf or
lion’s den.

Upon this night no evil thing may be.
The blessing of Saint Francis broods
above
Forest and field and fold and sand and sea
And on the beasts and birds who knew
his love.

Some Don’t Like Cats

“Some people don’t like cats.” That is,
of course, so. We have a very good
friend, a man who is kind to animals,
but who has an instinctive and uncon—
querable aversion to cats. When we pos-
sessed our very admirable black cat,
“Christopher,” now, alas, no more, this.
friend of ours would sit in acute dis-
comfort if the cat entered the room, but
too polite and too fair to yield to the dis-
comfort. He even remembered “Christo-
pher” on Christmas by gifts of catnip
and a red collar.

Yet cats, so feared or disliked by some,
have brought incalculable comfort and
peace to others. In hours of loneliness
there is nothing, we think, so restful as
the sight of a sleeping cat, curled or
stretched before a ﬁreplace, utterly
graceful, altogether beautiful, blessedly
quiet.

EDWARD E. WHITING

 

A PAUSE IN THE HALLOWE’EN CHORUS

 




 

 

 

 

 

Oct. 191,1

My Mare
Judy Van der

I see her on a hill—

The wind in her mane,-

I hear her running hoots
Through the narrow lane.

Veer

I remember how she loved
The green grass of spring,
I see her everywhere,

I remember everything—

The quick and eager way
She would toss her head—
It is harder to remember
That my mare is dead.

Not hard to see again

The sunshine on her coat,
Feel once more the softness
Of her neck and throat.

It is sorrow to remember
Her imploring eyes,

To see the stricken look

That comes to one who dies.

50 I shall be forgetting
Much of a certain day,
And never more remember
How she went away.

Longevity in Animals
ROBERT E.PIKE

HAT is the oldest living animal?
«Most people would probably an-
swer, “the elephant.” But while the ele-
phant does live to an average age of 150
years, and specimens have been known
to surpass 200, yet the whale lives twice

- as long. Three hundred years is a good

old age for a whale, though some have
been caught whose age was estimated
at four hundred years.

The methods of judging age in ani—
mals are interesting. In whales, it is
done by the size of the whalebone; for
turtles, by the average yearly increase
in weight; for roosters, by their combs;
for horses, an expert can tell within a
year by the teeth; with cattle, or at
least with horned cattle, one can tell by
the horns.

Parrots have been known to live to the
age of 120 years. There is a story of a
German scientist who went to study the
unique language of a small tribe of In-
dians in the jungles of Venezuela, but
when he arrived he found the last mem-
ber of the tribe dying of an epidemic,
and this man gave him a parrot he had
owned for many years. The bird had a
vocabulary of about 150 words, but the
scientist never did succeed in translat—
ing them.

Dogs and cats, although 12 years is a

good ripe age for either, have been
known to live to be as old as 24, and

OUR DUMB

AN 1M ALS

 

Page 187'

 

while 20 years is a fairly old age for a
horse, I have seen specimens over 40,
while instances are recorded of some
that lived to be over 50.

Horses usually get thin and ragged if
they live to be over 30, yet the noted
race-horse, “Ethan Allen,” was 45 when
he was deemed the handsomest horse in
Vermont and as such was chosen by the
Governor to ride in a procession.

Fish are much longer-lived than most
people think. A woman in Worcester-
shire, England, had a tame trout that
lived to be 20 years old, and a German
writer named Gesner tells of a pike 267
years old that was caught at Halibrun in
Suabia in 1497. A ring was found in its
tail bearing this inscription: “I am the
ﬁsh that was ﬁrst of all put into this
lake by the hands of the Governor of the
Universe, Frederick the Second, the 5th
of October, 1230.” It weighed 350
pounds and was 19 feet long. Its skele-
ton was exhibited at Mannheim.

Of course everyone remembers the
recent case of the horned toad who was
released from a 38—year imprisonment in
the corner stone of a Texas building and

hopped nonchalantly away. This makes

more credible the story in Hall’s “His—
tory of Vermont,” where he tells of exca-
vations in an ancient gravel bed along
the Winooski River, where, in a strata
estimated to be 700 years old, toads were
dug up who immediately hopped away
with no noticeable stiffness in their
joints.

The Galapagos turtles live to be more
than 200 years old, but the ﬁrst prize
probably goes to some of the sacred
crocodiles still in India, who were lively
youngsters, only a century or two old,
when William the Conqueror landed in
England.

Lilliputian Horses
ENOLA CHAMBERLIN

BOUT one hundred years ago a

major landslide occurred in an Ari-
zona canyon. There were some Indian
horses in the canyon and the slide
blocked the trail and trapped the horses.
These horses lived on what little food
and water the canyon contained. They
had colts and their colts had colts. But
food was scarce and nature says adapt
or die, and today the descendants of
those normal horses are only as large
as dogs.

Mr. Ritter, artist and naturalist, went
down into the canyon last year and
brought out three of these tiny horses
by hauling them up a thousand-foot cl‘iﬂ’.
The largest of the three weighs sixty-
ﬁve pounds and is twenty-seven inches
tall. The other two weigh thirty-ﬁve
pounds each and are twenty-four inches
tall.

Some species of insects winter over in
the adult stage. The more common are
the lady bugs, Mexican bean beetles,
some grasshoppers, the housefly, chinch
bugs, and box-elder bugs. They are cold
blooded, remain dormant, and are seen
only on very warm winter days.

Endowed stalls and kennels are
needed in the Angel] Memorial Animal
Hospital. Payments of thirty-ﬁve dol-
lars for a kennel or seventy-ﬁve dollars
for a stall will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name. Terms of
permanent endowment of free stalls
and kennels will be given upon appli-
cation to the Treasurer, 180 Longwood
Avenue, Boston, who solicits corre-
spondence thereto.

 




 

 

Nov. 1941

   

"""Wgn rm

       

  
   

  
 
  

. val
. .(Illl/ll’zlalllllllul.“ “‘3 .

4.”- Mummy,»rprlmnw"

‘ .
_.
/
-. 1'
‘\I

v

as

. g
'0 :- V
.' ’\ ' g
l.\

bi“ \\
w: M
3"“ .h’ I :

  

. i7.-.” .; '9‘...
.’.””"’"ﬂ”ll["'q"|DI ' m

-.
}.
' u
, _
,‘\

The Cheer-Uppers

MINNIE LEONA UPTON

This morning they left their snug home in the hay—-
Those hits we’d suspected for many a day.
(Mother Samantha had planned it that way.)

And we hailed them with gurgles and shouts of delight,
As, led by Samantha, the four came in sight,
All tails held erect and all eyes mischief-bright.

They chewed the plume-d tail of their digniﬁed mother!
(She thought that was clever!) They chased one another
Each gay, irresponsiye sister and brother.

And we all—sober grown-ups, with war news depressed
Tossed off all our worries, with light-hearted zest!
And when, quite worn out, those four hits sank to rest,

The hearts they had lightened still felt a lot lighter;
And somehow world prospects were quite a bit brighter,
With less fear of war and the terrible ﬁghter.

The President Who Pardoned a Turkey

ALFRED L TOOKE

HE kindness and consideration to animals of Abra-

ham Lincoln, as a boy, is well known, but it is not so
well known that the same love for animals displayed by
his son, Tad, led to one of the most unique pardons in
history.

An admirer of President Lincoln had sent a very ﬁne,
fat turkey gobbler to the White House for the Thanks-
giving dinner. Since that event was quite a way off yet,
Tad undertook to feed the splendid creature, which
promptly showed its liking for Tad by following him
about whenever and wherever he would let it.

When Thanksgiving at last was so near that prepara-
tions were being made for the dinner, Tad could no
longer bear the idea of his ﬁne feathered friend being
dished up on a platter to grace the festive board. So it
was that a President of the United States was presently
in serious conference with one of his youngest subjects
who, with tearful eyes, begged for the life of his admired
friend.

The President could not refuse the request, and not
many minutes later the youngster dashed wildly into
the kitchen, waving in his hand something that he thrust
into the hand of the startled cook. It was a full and un-
conditional pardon, whereby the life of the turkey gobbler
was spared, and the document was signed by the Presi-
dent of the United States of America, the beloved
Abraham Lincoln.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

   

.5

   

ill \‘\\\\

l"

.._.\
. I)

   
  

a

. I!“

      

‘N
\“)’
"“0
w‘
929
.~ 3 “"5“
. 45".
but”

\ \ \ ” \ \
i
ii C
" l
“l
5,

j

 

 

JANE WITHERS, POPULAR SCREEN STAR OF
“YOUNG AMERICA,” AND TWO OF HER
INNUMERABLE PETS

 

A Queer Tailor

ELDA SPRUTQGER

ll ll AVE you ever been to a tailor’s shop? If so, you

probably saw the tailor sewing with his shining
steel needle. But there is also a bird which is a tailor.
This bird, however, does not use a steel needle to do his
work. Instead, he uses his long slender bill as a needle.

He is called a tailor bird, and he lives in India and in
the Philippine Islands. He has a very queer way of build-
ing his nest. First, he chooses two leaves close together
at the end of a twig. With his long slender bill he pierces
holes all around the edges of both leaves, except on top.
This is left for the opening. When this is done the bird
hunts for something with which to sew the two leaves
together. He may ﬁnd bits of wool or silk threads. Or
perhaps he uses threadlike ﬁbers from plants. Using his
long slender bill as a needle, he skilfully draws these
threads through the holes in the leaves. In this way the
leaves are stitched together, forming a bag. After the
bag is made nice and soft inside with grass, hair, or
plant down the nest is ﬁnished, and ready for the mamma
tailor bird to lay eggs in it.

 

 

 




 

Oct. 1941

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 189

 

EXHIBIT OF AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY AND MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A. AT

CATHOLIC TEACHERS’ INSTITUTE, BOSTON, AUGUST 25—29

Medal for Georgia Boy

OLLIS HARDY, sixteen, a member

of the Junior Humane Society in one
of the schools of Atlanta, has been
warded the humane medal of the Ameri-
can Humane Education Society for rescu-
ing a fox from a hunt of the Peach State
Beagle Club last August. The Club at
ﬁrst proposed using a jack rabbit, but
because of the emphatic protests of the
Atlanta Humane Society, the Junior Hu—
mane Society and many individuals, this
plan was given up in favor of releasing a
fox with a half-mile start on the dogs.
When the time came, the fox, not given
the half—mile start, was so bewildered
that it jumped into the lake, from which
it was shooed out among the dogs, and
pursued for a quarter of a mile by 50
hunters. At this point the fox dashed
toward a fence, when young Hardy ran
between it and the dogs, rescued the
frightened animal, and drove ﬁfteen
miles out in the woods and turned it
loose.

Teachers9 Institute in Boston

HE thirty-second annual Institute of

the Parochial School Teachers of the
Boston Archdiocese, held at Boston Col—
lege High School, Boston, August 25-29,
provided an excellent opportunity for the
advancement of humane education.

Coming from every section of the
Archdiocese, more than 1,500 nuns of
the 3,000 who teach in the parochial
schools, and representing thirty differ-
ent Orders, were in attendance during
the week.

Abundant space was provided for the
display of “Kindness to Animals” pos—
ters, books, leaﬂets and other humane
literature, as shown in the picture above.

Large numbers of sisters visited this
exhibit of the American Humane Educa-
tion Society and the Massachusetts S. P.
C. A., which was in one of the most
conspicuous locations in the High School,
on the third ﬂoor directly outside the
general assembly hall where it was of
convenient access to all. Many sisters
ﬁled requests for humane literature and

other material, and an even larger num-
ber indicated that they and the children
are already receiving material or partic-
ipating in one or more of the Societies’
activities for advancing kindness to ani-
mals.

Into the parochial schools this season
will march the great army of more than
100,000 young boys and girls from the
Boston Archdiocese alone. From the
primary grades to the ﬁnal year in High
School the educational and spiritual
needs of these boys and girls will be
ﬁlled by the teachers who attended the
Institute and, from the enthusiastic com-
ments expressed by the sisters at the
Societies’ exhibit, the humane education
of the children will certainly not be
neglected.

The exhibit, made possible through
the courtesy of Rt. Rev. Richard J.
Quinlan, Diocesan Director of Parochial
Schools, was under the direction of Dr.
Francis H. Rowley, president of both
Societies, and was arranged and super-
vised by Mr. John F. Cotter, who was
in attendance throughout the week.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 188

Junkman’s Horse
F . J . W o r r all

From early down
To close of day
He jogs along
The same old way.

Up and down

The crowded sireeis
You can hear

The rhythmic beats.

Sometimes drowsing
In the sun——

Wishing . . . wishing
Day was done.

No rest for Dobbin
And no pay—

He gives his life
For a wisp of hay.

Rodents of Song and Story

JASPER B. SINCLAIR

FFHAND you might not think that

ordinary rodents could have more
than casual acquaintance with the class—
ics of song and story. A little research
dispels that thought, however. ,

Familiar to children and adults alike
is the story of the Pied Piper and the
rats of Hamelin town. The story is many
centuries old, but Browning’s poetic tell-
ing made it even more famous.

There is an old song about the “Three
Blind Mice” and a nursery rhyme about
the mouse of “Hickory, Dickory” fame
that spent its time running up and down
the clock.

Robert Burns wrote his “Ode to a
Mouse” with all its often-quoted lines,
the most familiar of which concerns “the
best laid plans of mice and men.” The
Scottish poet wrote the lines when his
plow dislodged a ﬁeld mouse from its
nest.

Benjamin Franklin paid tribute to the
industriousness of the mouse when he
wrote, “By diligence and industry the
mouse cut the cable in two.”

Ralph Waldo Emerson added another
gem to the world’s collection of famous
sayings when he wrote about the man
who could build a better mousetrap than
his neighbor.

On a rock in the middle of the Rhine,
somewhere between the cities of Coblenz
and Mainz, stands the strangely named
castle of the Cat and the Mouse. Robber
barons used it as a place from which to
collect toll from all boats using the river
in medieval times. A half-dozen story-
book legends have been written around
the Cat and the Mouse.

Such other members of the rodent
family as hares, rabbits and squirrels
also have their honored place in song
and story.

‘With its startling leaps

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

The fable of the hare and the tortoise
has become an enduring part of the lit-
erature of many lands, together with
the rather uncomplimentary expression,
“Mad as a March hare.”

“Br’er Rabbit” is one of the famous
characters in American folklore, while
another rabbit ﬁgured quite prominent—
ly in the story of “Alice in Wonderland.”
The people of Llandudno, Wales, even
erected a statue in honor of the famous
White Rabbit.

The Fish That Sails
HENRY NICHOLAS

NE of the most remarkable inhabit-

ants of the sea is the sailﬁsh. It
has a streamline shape and can swim
with amazing speed. But when it is
tired it can do what no other ﬁsh in
the sea can do. It rises to the surface
of the water, draws its lower ﬁns close
to its body, and extends the enormous
dorsal ﬁn which it carries folded within
its back.

The pressure of the wind against this
upraised ﬁn carries the sailﬁsh over the
surface of the water, like a ship under
sail. It handles this ﬁn like an experi-
enced sailor. If the wind is strong it
lowers the ﬁn, like a sailor taking a reef
in the sail, but if the wind is gentle then
it extends the huge dorsal ﬁn to the
limit. On rare occasions sailors have
seen a number of sailﬁsh in the Gulf
Stream, moving through the water like
a ﬂeet of miniature sailboats competing
in a race.

The sailﬁsh has special
muscles which enable it
to control its different
ﬁns. When it wishes to
slow down, after a burst
of speed, it extends its
ﬁns and uses them as
brakes. It uses its dorsal
ﬁn in its amazing leaps
through the air. Observ—
ers have seen a sailﬁsh
make as many as thirty
such successive leaps
high above the water.

through the air with
its huge dorsal ﬁn ex—
tended, its body shin—
ing in the sunlight like
polished bronze with a
silver mounting on the
back, it makes a remark-
able sight.

Airplane and automo-
tive engineers have spent
hours in studying moving
pictures of the sailﬁsh.
They are interested in its
streamline body, which
offers so little resistance
when it swims through

Oct. 191,]

the water, in the source of the power
which enables it to make such astound—
ing leaps through the air, and also in the
manner in which it‘ uses its ﬁns as
brakes.

Rotary Clubs, Attention!

SIGMUND SAMETH, M.A.

EMBERS of civic organizations

throughout the country ought to
follow the lead of the Rotary Club of
Savannah, Georgia. When it was voted
to spend several hundred dollars on an
enduring monument memorializing the
organization, a bronze marker set in a
granite watering trough was set up by
the roadside.

How much more satisfying will this
monument be to future generations of
Rotarians than a similar marker with-
out a humanitarian function? The wat-
ering basin was no more expensive than
a regulation pedestal base of similar
type, yet this little bit of foresight and
love of our animal friends will be a per-
petual memorial of man’s regard for the
creatures which work for him. The basin
is supplied with an ever-ﬂowing stream
of pure cool water and it is a gladdening
sight to watch some farmer’s horse or
mule approaching the city limits of
Savannah stop to drink his ﬁll. The
birds relish the perpetual spring, also,
and more than one shaggy-haired and
panting dog trots up to the basin on a
hot summer day to ﬁnd cool refreshment.
The Savannah Rotary Club is to be com-
mended by animal lovers everywhere.

 

ROTARY CLUB OF SAVANNAH IS MEMORIAL-
IZED BY THIS GRANITE WATERING TROUGH

 




 

 

 

 

Greater Boston :

89 WASHENGTO‘N ST., BROOKLINE — LON. 1330

WHAT DOES YOUR DOG NEED?

FRESH MEALS DELIVERED TRI-WEEIKLY - CANNED DO'G FOOD
DRY DOG FOOD - ACCESSORIES OF ALL] KINDS

Call or write either office

CANINE CATERING CO. of MASS., INC.

North Shore:
2‘2 C‘ABOT' STREET, BEVERLY - BEV. 1445

 

 

 

 

 

HOTCKIN CO.
Bank Stocks, Mill Stocks and Utilities

53 STATE STREET, BOSTON

 

 

 

 

 

PUT‘NAM & COX
& SALTONSTALL
Architects
114 STATE STREET

Boston, Mass.

Telephone—LAFayette 3715

 

 

WHITE BROS.
Milk

50 FRENCH STREET
QUINCY

Telephone, GRAnite 8000

 

T R Y
HILL’S DOG FOOD

FOR JUST THIRTY DAYS

ll llﬂﬂlllll

OI Cllllllll

 

GUARANTEES

A wholesome and nourishing diet.
Tested and approved by the “Com-
mittee on Foods” of the American
Animal Hospital Association, in con-
iunction with the American Veter-
inary Medical Association.

For complete information, write

NEW ENGLAND
KENNEL SUPPLY CO.

Authorized Distributors

10 Westley Avenue
Cambridge Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ELECTRICAL
EQUIPMENT REPAIRS

STEARNS, PERRY
& SMITH CO.

51 CHARDON STREET
Boston, Mass.

Telephones:-—CAPitol 3930 - 393T

 

 

 

COMPLIMENTS OF

FOOD CENTER, Inc.
HARVARD SQUARE

BROOKLINE

Tel. ASP. 7200 Tel. ASP. 720l
Radlo Market Co.

MEATS, FRUITS and VEGETABLES
Best Quality Goods at Lowest Prices

1412 BEACON STREET“
Brookline, Mass.

 

 

 

 

E. F. Mahady Company

Hospital Surgical and Medical Supplies
Sick Room Supplies
Radioean' Hearing Aids - Corrective Corsets
Wheel-Chairs to Rent

851 BOYLSTON STREET, BOSTON, MASS.

T‘el. KENmore 7100

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GOODBAND KENNELS
411 DEDHAM STREET
head of Parker St., Newton Centre

A good boarding place for your dog
CLIPPING — WASHING

Call LASelI 2547 to have your dog
taken care of, or for any of the above
service

GEORGE GOODBAND

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

BROOKLINE FEDERAL
SAVINGS and LOAN
ASSOCIATION

1299 BEACON STREET
Brookline

MONEY AVAILABLE FOR
MORTGAGE LOANS

SPARR’S DRUG STORE
AND LUNCHEONETTE
WHERE THEY MEET AND EAT

Cor. Huntington and Longwood
Avenues

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A FRIEND

 

 

 

 

 

NEW YORK

 

Since 1876

, 40 BROAD STREET, BOSTON

JOHN C. PAIGE & COMPANY
Dependable INSURANCE of Every Description

PORTLAND

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

BUTCHER POLISH CO.
84 BROAD STREET
BOSTON

 

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

LONGWOOD

Tailors and Cleansers
Work Called For and Delivered
164a Longwood Avenue, Boston
LONgwood 5900

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A. A. Kennels
Registered by American Kennel Club

Dogs Trimmed, Boarded and for
Sale - Airedale, Scottish, and other
Breeds - Puppies and Grown Stock

MRS. EMMETT WARBURTON

241 NAHANTON STREET
Newton Centre, Massachusetts

Telephone, BlGelow 6400

LYNCH BROS.
CARRIAGE COMPANY

ESSEX AND PEARL STREETS
CHELSEA

CHElsea 3049-3001

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

MULLER RENDERING
COMPANY

will collect your

Dead Horses and Cows
at short notice
Telephones, Kleland 0061, 1261
AUGUST SILVERY

 

 

 

 

 

Established 1875
J. F. HERNE CO.

Sawdust, Baled Shavings
Sweeping Compound
Excelsior
EVERETT
Telephone, EVErett 3652-3629

 

 

.l. C. KEITH

Auction and Commission
Dealer in All Classes of Horses

Auction Every Wednesday at 10
A.M. at Brighton Stock Yards
Private Sales Daily

Largest Harness Emporium in New
England at

134 KENRICK STREET
BRIGHTON

Largest Stock of Harnesses, Saddles
and Blankets — Everything for the
Horse, Pony and Stable

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ABERTHAW COMPANY
CONTRACTORS

80 Federal Street

Boston

Telephone, LlBerty 1264

WILD & STEVENS, INC.

Printers’ Rollers

5 PURCHASE STREET

Boston, Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A. TOWLE COMPANY
TRUCKMEN

135 High Street

Boston, Mass.

Telephone, HANcock 0312

Telephone ASPinwall 8090

D. M. SHIELDS
Successor to Albert Ruff & Co.

P r o v i s i o n 3
Game, Poultry, Vegetables
Meats, of All Kinds

Fruits Foreign and Domestic
Hot House Products

1617 BEACON STREET
Bro-okline, Mass.

 

 

 

Compliments of

LEE BURN KENNELS

Mr. and Mrs. N. Stuart Campbell

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Feb. 191,1

For Pets

Rena Manning

Stroking the sunshine of your fur,

Warming my heart against your purr,

My thoughts are half-a-world away—
Though half-a—world is small, they say;

But not when half that world is cold,

Not when it stiffens and grows old

With war and treachery and grief—

Then its dimensions pass belief!

So while I stroke you dreamily

Out of the shadows come to me

Little lost pets from war-sick lands

Turning their yearning eyes for hands—
Hands they loved; and only their eyes,
Their cringing fright, and their muted cries
To signify their forsaken plight—

Little lost pets of the war-sick night!
Stroking my own l whisper a prayer:

"God grant thy mercy to pets over there."

Dog Knows Overseas Letters

GRANT M. PATERSON

ATIENTLY waiting for the foot-

steps of the postman on morning
rounds, a black and white fox terrier,
“Sniffy” keeps a faithful watch by the
letter slot in the Vancouver home of Mr.
and Mrs. 'W. D. Morrison. When a letter
is dropped, it is given an anxious “going
over” by the eager fox terrier who is
seeking the scent of his soldier master,
Pte. Denny Morrison, now serving in
England with the crack Vancouver regi-
ment, the Seaforth Highlanders.

Heartbroken when his master left with
the Canadian Active Service Forces,
Sniffy hid in an upstairs room, refusing
all consolation.

Then Denny’s ﬁrst letter arrived from
England! The dog smelled it and carried
it to the kitchen Where he dared the fam-
ily to take it from him. The missive was
ﬁnally secured without much damage done
to it, but only after a great deal of coax-
ing. This has gone on ever since the
arrival of the ﬁrst overseas letter. The
animal seems to have the ability to recog-
nize his master’s notes even though they
have traveled thousands of miles from
their overseas starting point and have
passed through dozens of sorting hands.

“We know by the excited barks the
instant a letter has arrived from Denny,”
says Mrs. Morrison. “Then wehave to
hunt for it and retrieve it from Sniffy.
Fortunately, he does not harm the let-
ters—they are usually a bit chewed, but
quite readable.”

The uncanny understanding exempli—
ﬁed by Sniffy’s faithful watching for his
master’s mail, is a heart-stirring in-
stance of the deep devotion that can exist
between a man and his dog.

Humane Sunday, April 20; Be Kind to
Animals Week, April 21—26, 1941.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 29

Care of Animals in the War
JOHN B. BEHRENDS

 

British Combine

PETS OF LONDON’S EAST END BEING CARED FOR AT TATTERSALLS
WHERE THEY ENJOY THEIR EXERCISE IN THE WELL-KNOWN RINGS

 

Animals and Bombs

EFORE the intensive bombing of

London and other large cities started,
many people wondered how the animals
would behave under bombardment. In
actual practice their behavior seems to
vary as widely as human reaction under
similar circumstances. For the most part,
cats are comparatively indifferent, or
even contemptuous, to the efforts of the
German Air Force. They refuse to be dis-
lodged from their homes if they can pos-
sibly help it, and there are instances
wherein, even when their homes were
destroyed and they had to be taken to
temporary accommodations, the cats
went back home the next day and sat
among the ruins, purring quite con—
tentedly.

Birds, also, seem not to worry much
about the noise; and cases have come to
light showing that they remained in
their cages cheerfully singing when one
wall of the house was gone and only a
remnant of the roof was intact.

Of course, many dogs are greatly
frightened by the noise; but the accurate
registration system used in England has
helped to restore hundreds of canines to
their owners after the pets had ﬂed in
terror from the sound of falling bombs.
There was even one case in which a dog
who knew where the Dispensary was
situated, and who knew its purpose be—
cause he had been there before, ran
round to seek the aid of the doctors as
soon as the bombs began to fall. L. E. E.

UITE remarkable is the thought

and consideration given to pets

and animals in the countries that
are being ravaged by the cruel war.
Despite the misery, suffering, and handi—
caps that these people are undergoing
they still ﬁnd time to care for the birds
and animals.

In London two hundred and forty am-
bulances are available to go and take care
of injured pets every night. Hundreds of
volunteer workers, including veterinary
surgeons all over the country, are giv—
ing their services free and risking their
own lives every night to take care of
these animals. Every day these same
workers search among the ruins of
wrecked houses to rescue trapped dogs
and cats, or destroy those too badly in—
jured to be saved. Special animal shelters
have been built in parks, and private
canteens have been set up to feed stray
dogs.

Mascots have been found in British
planes shot down over Germany. One of
these, a beautiful russet setter with
pretty, sad eyes found a new home with
a German ofﬁcer and his family. He
seemed none the worse for his ﬂying ex-
periences. A big, short-haired pointer
was adopted by the air ministry. When
his master and plane crashed the dog
placed himself on guard and tried to de-
fend them from all comers. Soldiers ﬁ-
nally coaxed him to eat some food and
then managed to get a muzzle on him.
There was also a bird mascot which sur-
vived the destruction of his owner’s
plane.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Oct. 191,1

   
   
      

 

    
 

/‘- a it: a ”1:?
SEEK.“ 4'
’ ll . \l

"2 2w; :§
iy’ A"

  
   

T

   
   
     

//

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel
JOSEPH MOONEY, Treasurer’s Assistant

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President and Ch. Fi-
nance Com., United Shoe Machinery Corporation

CHARLES E. SPENCER, JR., President, First National
Bank of Boston
Prosecuting Officers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100

L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Ofﬁcer
HARRY L. ALLEN HOWARD WILLAND
HARVEY R. FULLER J. ROBERT SMITH

County Prosecuting Officers

HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston Middlesex and Norfolk
FRED T. VICKERS, Wenham Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
JOSEPH E. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
FRED F. HALL, Springﬁeld
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
HARRY C. SMITH, Worcester Worcester
CHARLES E. BROWN, Attleboro, Bristol and Plymouth
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
T. KING HASWELL, Pittsﬁeld Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen
W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Other Small Animal Shelters of M. S. P. C. A.

Boston, 170-184 Longwood Avenue
Springﬁeld, 53-57 Bliss Street

Pittsﬁeld, 224 Cheshire Road

Attleboro, 3 Commonwealth Avenue
Hyannis, State Road, Rte. 28, Centerville
Wenham, Cherry Street

AUGUST REPORT OF THE OFFICERS OF
THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.,
WITH HEADQUARTERS AT BOSTON,
METHUEN, SPRINGFIELD, PITTSFIELD,
ATTLEBORO, WENHAM, HYANNIS, WOR-
CESTER, FITCHBURG, NORTHAMPTON,
HAVERHILL, HOLYOKE, ATHOL, COV-
ERING THE ENTIRE STATE

Miles traveled by humane officers . . 20,472
Cases investigated . . . . ....... . . 328
Animals examine-d . ...... . . . . . . 6,294
Animals placed in homes . . . . . . . . 368
Lost animals restored to owners. . 82
Number of prosecutions ........ 6
Number of convictions 6
Horses taken from work . . . . . . . 9
Horses humanely put to sleep . . . . 55
Small animals humanely put to sleep 3 ,186
Horse auctions attended . . . . . . . . 12
Stockyards and Abattoirs
Animals inspected . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57,232
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep ................ 17

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals
184 Longwood Avenue. Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

E. F. SCHROEDER, D.V.M., Chief of Staff
R. H. SCHNEIDER, v.M.D., Asst. Chief
G. B. SCHNELLE, v.M.D.

T. O. MUNSON, v.M.D.
C. L. BLAKELY, v.M.D.
M. S. ARLEIN, D.V.M.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springﬁeld Branch

Telephone 4-7355
53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.

Veterinarians
A. R. EVANS, v.M.D. H. L. SMEAD, D.V.M.

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR AUGUST
At 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

Cases entered in Hospital ........ 933
Cases entered in Dispensary ...... 2,030
Operations ...................... 418

At Springﬁeld Branch, 53 Bliss Street

Cases entered in Hospital ........ 173
Cases entered in Dispensary ...... 836
Operations ...................... 91
At Attleboro Clinic, 3 Commonwealth Ave.
Cases entered ................... 98
Totals

Hospital cases since Opening, Mar.
1, 1915 ...................... 197,745
Dispensary cases ............... 499,152
Total .............. 696,897

Branches and Auxiliaries
MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Northampton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.——MISS
EMILY HALE, Pres.; MISS MILDRED MOULTON, Treas.

Great Barrington Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—
MRS. ROBERT MAGRUDER, Pres. ; MRS. DONALD WORTH-
INGTON, Treas.

Holyoke Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A. —MRS. AARON
C. BAGG, Pres. , MRS. ROBERT E NEWCOMB, Treas.

Springfield Branch Auxiliary—MRS. CARLTON H.
GARINGER, Pres. ; MRS. RICHARD A. BOOTH, Treas.
Second Thursday.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary—MRS. RICHARD S.
TAYLOR, Pres. ; MRS. JOHN HAMILTON CLARKE, Treas.

Boston Work Committee of Mass. S. P. C. A.—MRS.
GEORGE D. COLPAS, Chairman.

Veterinary Column

1. Question: I have a litter Of setter
puppies three weeks Old which I wish to
wean. Please suggest a diet for them?

Answer: A satisfactory diet for four
setter puppies between the ages of three
and six weeks is as follows:

1 pint Of whole milk

1 teaspoonful sugar Of milk
1 teaspoonful Of lime water
1 egg yolk

Mix the whole and feed warm. Divide
the entire mixture in individual dishes
and feed the puppies ﬁve times a day
until they are 41/2 weeks Old, then in-
crease each constituent one half and

Page 191

feed four times a day.

After the puppies are four weeks Old,
a teaspoonful Of ﬁnely chopped lean raw
beef may be added to each serving.

2. Question: My two-year-old cocker
Spaniel loves to swim in the lake every
summer while we are on our vacation.
Last year and this year, he subsequently
developed ear trouble, shaking his head
and scratching at his ears. They seem
very sore. What is this condition?

Answer: The basic trouble is an ear
infection. This is called by several
names; ear canker, auricular catarrh,

etc. Such an infection may develop after
a dog’s ears are wet as they would be by
swimming. Your veterinarian should
treat the case, as it may get out Of hand
and cause serious damage if not prop—
erly treated.

8. Question: There seems to be some
sort Of a growth on my cat’s stomach.
It is a soft swelling, about as large as a
pea, right in the middle Of his abdomen.
He is a spring kitten and seems to be in
good health, except for this swelling
which he has had since birth. Is this a
serious condition?

Answer: From your description your
cat has an umbilical hernia. This may or
may not need surgical intervention. You
had better let your veterinarian examine
the cat and advise you as to treatment.

4. Question: Is it best to have my
dog immunized against distemper before
winter? He is now six months Old.

Answer: The best time to vaccinate a
dog against distemper is as soon as pos-
sible after he has reached the age of
four months. The causative agent for
distemper exists at all times of the year,
and any dog, especially under the age of
two years, is capable of contracting
the disease.

5. Question: My three - months - Old
puppy wouldn’t eat and was coughing
so I gave him some worm, medicine. He
is now worse. Is it because he still has
worms?

AnsWer: The indiscriminate use of
worm medicine is to be discouraged. It
Often, as is probably the case in this
instance, is much more harmful than
beneﬁcial. Worm medicine is necessarily
composed Of strong drugs that only
serve to further lower a dog’s physical
condition if given when he is sick. Worm
medicine should not be given without
the advice Of your veterinarian. Submit
to him a fresh sample Of the dog’s bowel
movement which he can examine micro-
scopically for worm eggs and advise
you correctly as to treatment.

In the case Of your puppy, he probably
is suffering from some condition other
than worms, and you should consult
your veterinarian.

L. H. S., Veterinary Dept,
Angell Animal Hospital

 

 




   

 

(I;

FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY

DECEMBER. 1941

..........g n...“-

 

‘

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY
TO ANIMALS g7 THE AMERICAN
HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

  

IJII IIIIIJ‘I‘I‘I‘ \ It Jnvwﬂl‘y .n ISAIIIII .‘l. 3141-111
(III 3| III . y I

. I (”viii ‘aﬂ‘ﬂdQW‘lalluiluJ‘ll

 

 

 




 

OUR DUMB

June, 19.41

D

   

 

l

I

   

.. “warm,"

I val
. -{{/{////4u,/glllx.l 4“.“ ’u: ,

  

The Woodpecker

CHRISTINE PARK HANKINSON

The woodpecker stopped at the June apple tree,
And hammered the tree-trunk indn-str‘ionsly.

“Tap-tap-tap—tap” was the sentence! he said,
And followed each word. with a shake of the head.

“Tap-tap-tap-tap,” he repeated the din;
But nobody opened, inviting him in.

“Tap-tap-tap-tap,” and the little red hood
Bobbed backward and forward as fast as it could;

And then, withont breathing as much as a sigh,
He placed at the crevice his sharp little eye.

Two larvae were sleeping inside on a. shelf;
So he knocked 0]?“ the entrance, and just helped himself.

What Do You. Know About Nature?

JOSEPH CROUGHWELL

HE ﬁfteen questions below will test your knowledge
of nature. Allow yourself ﬁve points for each cor-

rect answer. A score of seventy-ﬁve is perfect. A score
of ﬁfty is passable.

1. What animal is often referred to as a building
engineer?

2. The tallest of our birds often reaches a height of
eight feet. What is the name of this bird?

3. What bird is trained by the Chinese to catch ﬁsh?

4. What particular deep sea ﬁsh lays the largest eggs?

5. What bird allows the sun to hatch its eggs?

6. Does the male or the female mosquito bite?

7. What animal is thought to be the ﬁrst to be domes-
ticated by man?

8. What name is given to the male bee?

9. Does coral belong to the animal, vegetable or min—
eral kingdom?

10. What well-known bird lays blue eggs?

11. What bird does not build a nest?

12. Name three animals besides the elephant from
which ivory may be obtained?

13. Why is it that ﬁsh cannot exist in the Dead Sea?

14. Where are the sweat glands on a cow located?

15. Do any other animals besides the dog suffer from
rabies?

Correct answers to the above questions will be found
on this page next month.

 

ANIMALS PageIIQ

  
 

 
   

lull]

(Es
7/?)

:ﬁé‘C‘ﬁKR‘i‘}

       

s
14 ‘ \\
ﬂ;

\

The School Dog at Rumford, Maine

HELEN S. MARSH

NOTHER school dog! There seem to be a. lot of

them throughout the country. Here is “Rusty,” the
intelligent dog owned by Superintendent Williams of the
Rumford, Maine, public schools.

 

“RUSTY,” RUMFORD (MAINE) SCHOOL DOG

Rusty frequently visits classes and sits quietly and
happily with the children while at their tasks. The shiny,
sleek coat of the educated dog and the contented “smile”
assure all that love and good care are important factors
in the problem of any animal’s life when the result brings
health and happiness.

Yes, Rusty is an intelligent and happy dog.

Answers to “The Colorful Animals” puzzle last

month: 1. Badgers. 2. Chipmunks. 3. Wolverines. 4.
Leopards. 5. Camelopards, 6. Porcupines. 7. Buffalos.
8. Polecats. 9. Rhinoceros. 10. Chimpanzee. 11. Ante-

lopes. 12. Elephants.

 

 

 




I. 1‘“ w- -, “WRM‘, ‘ﬁ'4.-‘>“. ,4. e {ﬁat-P"; an. -

The American _ Ofﬁcers of Both Societies

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
Humane Educatlon SOClety ERIC H. HANSEN, Executive Vice-President

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary
ALBERT A. ' POLLARD, Treasurer
Counsel, PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY s. STOREY

The Massachusetts Society

FOR THE

Prevention of Cruelty toAnimals

 
 
    

GLORY TO
GOD,
PEACE ON EARTH,
Kmoness, JUSTICE 0
AND MERCY TO
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

Angell Memorial Animal Hospital

Operated by the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.
170-184 Longwood Avenue, Boston

Our Dumb Animals

Founded by GEO. T. ANGELL in 1868

Oﬂicial organ of all our Societies

 
   
   

  
       

7
3v
m
23

 

 

 

Springﬁeld Branch, 53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.

 

Trustees of Permanent Funds of Both Societies

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First Boston Corp. . CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President and Chairman,Finance Com.,

United Shoe Machinery Corp,
CHARLES E. SPENCER, J 12., President, First National Bank of Boston

Receiving no aid from city, state or community fund, the Societies are supported by
gifts, memberships and legacies.

The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals has fourteen
prosecuting officers throughout the State.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN EACH SOCIETY-Active Life, $100; Associate Life, $50;

Sustaining Annual, $20; Active Annual, $10; Associate Annual, $5; Annual,$1.;
Children’s $0.75.

All members receive OUR DUMB ANIMALS Free.

Boston, January, 1942

.................................................................................................................................................

...............................................................................................................................................

..........................

 

..................................................................................

It gives us great pleasure to present this volume on behalf of the above Societies.

.The Massachusetts 5. P. C. A. is greatly in need of funds for the extension of its general work,
especially throughout the country districts of the state where cruelty exists to a degree greater even
than In the Cities, particularly in the failure properly to feed and house domestic animals.

.The reader’s attention is particularly called to the work of the Angel] Memorial Animal
Hospital and Dispensary, opened March 1, 1915. A branch of this institution was opened at
53-57 31133 Street, Springfield, Mass., in December, 1931, and a Clinic at Attleboro, in Octo-

ber, 1938. Altogether we have treated 713,473 animals, 202,109 in the two Hospitals and
511,364 in the three Dispensaries.

 




Aug. 191,1

Evensong

McLeod Orford

At the close of the day
When shadows appear
Comes the song of a bird—-
A message of cheer.

He doth sing of the dawn
Way down in the sky
Though the darkness of night
And hazards are nigh.

At the close of the day
While burdened with care
You will find that a bird
Is singing somewhere.

Barnyard Bird Friends

DOROTHEA K. GOULD

NE of the cheeriest sounds of na—
ture is the call of the bobwhite.
These little birds have such a merry dis—
position and they are so attractive that
they are welcome on any farm. It is not
uncommon to see a ﬂock of quail around
the barnyard feeding with the chickens.
When the farmer hears the delightful
cry of the bobwhite in the drouth of
summer, he considers it a sweet sound
indeed, for to him it foretells rain. Bob-
whites render the farmer another valu-
able service—they eat injurious weed
seeds and insects on his farm.

The embryo quail has a sharp point on
the top of his bill. With this it cuts
the shell until the narrow hinge is left.
Then it pushes open the lid and slips out.
The mother quail is seen with her babies
just as the mother hen is seen with her
brood of chicks. The young leave the
nest immediately and go around with
their mother who teaches them What
food to eat and where to ﬁnd it.

These birds are very fond of each
other and like to keep together when-
ever possible. If scattered by the enemy
they begin their plaintive “bob-white”
call, and are not satisﬁed until they are
all together again.

They sleep side by side on the ground,
with their heads out, enabling them to
run and hide on the slightest hint of an
enemy.

In the winter these birds often live on
sumac, wild rose and other plants above
the snow. If these are not available there
is no food for the quail unless feeding
stations are established. A little corn
put out with grit, such as coarse sand,
will save many of these birds during a
severe winter, as they are not in the
habit of migrating far enough south so
as to escape the heavy snowstorms.

Bobwhite is called quail by the north-
erners, and partridge by southerners,
although the northern partridge is an
entirely different bird from the quail.

OUR " DUMB ANIMALS

Page 149

Sea Gulls Aid the Public Health

SIGMUND SAMETH

wheel in dipping circles over every
great harbor and river. To the casu-
al watcher these great birds may simply
represent a delightful sight. Their free-

SEEMINGLY tireless, the sea gulls

F

 

the East River, sea gulls pounce down
and within a few minutes consume the
entire mass of ﬂoating refuse. In win-
ter the Fulton Street Fish Market As-
sociation delegates a special workman

“SEA GULLS . . . FIT INTO THE BALANCED SCHEME OF LIFE”

dom of soaring is a constant inspiration
to the beholder. Public health authorities,
however, take a more matter-of—fact
View regarding the sea gull. They are
not interested in the beauties of bird
ﬂight. The interest that they have in the
sea gull is a purely hygienic one. With-
out the aid of these tireless scavengers,
our rivers and harbors, according to an
official of the U. S. Public Health Ser—
vice quoted, “would soon become choked
with a putrid mass of bacteria laden ref-
use.” That’s Why the sea gull is pro-
tected by law in every one of our forty-
eight states. To hunt or snare them
makes the offender liable to a stiff ﬁne or
imprisonment or both.

Sea gulls congregate in vast numbers
in the early morning hours at New York
City’s Fulton Street Fish Market, sec-
ond only to London’s Billingsgate as the
largest ﬁsh market in the world. The
task of removing refuse left after ﬁsh
are cleaned would bea tremendous one
were it not for the sea gull scavengers.
Every morning as tons of offal, the pro—
duct of ﬁsh cleaning, are dumped into

whose sole duty consists in strewing gull
feed on slabs of ice ﬂoating in the water
where it becomes a sort of sea-gull-
cafeteria. The birds, many of whom are
almost tame, soar down and take the
choicest morsels ﬁrst just as children
might do at a free—for-all picnic.

Sea gulls change their plumage during
the year. The winter plumage is white
to afford protective coloration when
ﬂoating on ice-dotted water. In summer
the coat darkens, ranging from rich
brown to a bluish slate color. A full-
grown harbor sea gull often weighs ﬁf-
teen or twenty pounds and birds larger
than this are by no means uncommon.

Think twice then, the next time you
are tempted to regard the sea gull as a
useless creature. Like all living animals
and birds, they ﬁt into the balanced
scheme of life intended by the Creator.
The majestic ﬂiers who squawk noisily
as they hover over the wake of ships
bound down the bay are one of the great—
est factors in keeping our navigable
waters clean and refuse free. Verily
they guard man against disease.

. ._.._...—-7_ w"-

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 192

    
   

  

GOD,
PEACE ON EARTH,
Kmoness, JUSTICE 0
AND MERCY 'ro
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

7
g
m
2'2.

     

Founded by Geo. T. Angeli Incorporated 1889

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Officers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Lengwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President and Ch. Fi-
nance Com., United Shoe Machinery Corporation

CHARLES E. SPENCER, JR., President, First National
Bank of Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives
E. J. H. Escobar

. .............. Colombia
Luis Pareja Cornejo ,,,,,,,,,,,, Ecuador
Charles A. Williams ,,,,,,,,,,,, France
Leonard T. Hawksley ,,,,,,,,,, Italy

S- 0- Batra .................. India
Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe ,,,,,,,, Japan
Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ,,,,,, Madeira
Dr. A. T. Ishkanian ,,,,,,,,,,,, Mexico
Mrs. Alice W. Manning ,,,,,,,,, Turkey

Humane Press Bureau
Katharine H. Piper, Secretary
180 Longwoo-d Ave., Boston

Field Workers of the Society
Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Illinois
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, South Carolina
Rev. R. E. Grifﬁth, De Land, Florida

Field Representative
Dr. Wm. F. H. Wentzel, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF FIELD
WORKERS FOR AUGUST, 1941

Number of Bands of Mercy formed, 15
Number of addresses made, 64
Number of persons in. audiences, 11,166

Help for Worn-out Workers

WE are receiving gifts to the Ameri-

can Humane Education Society as a
trust fund, the interest to be used for the
beneﬁt of ﬁeld missionaries and others who
have spent their lives in promoting humane
education. Already several cases have come
to our attention and are being relieved in

this way. We will welcome your contribu-
tion to this fund.

Please make checks payable to Albert A.
Pollard, Treasurer, American Humane Edu-
cation Society, 180 Longwood Avenue, Bos-

ton, and specify that the amount con-
tributed is for the Humane Education
Trust Fund.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

A Remarkable Report from
Turkey

E have just received from Mrs.

Alice W. Manning, the secretary
of the Turkish Society for the Protec—
tion of Animals, with its headquarters
in Istanbul (Constantinople), the annu-
al report for 1940. It represents an
extraordinarily ﬁne piece of work done
by that organization in troubled and un-
settled Turkey.

The report says that “in spite of the
difﬁculties which the state of war in
Europe has created this year, our work
has continued Without interruption or
diminution, except that we have not been
able to keep our full number of inspec-
tors. Of course, we are in great need
now of money to pay the salaries of a
suﬂ‘icient number of inspectors, because
many old horses are being employed for
the army, and others taken young and
ﬁt for service. These animals suffer
much of the time from cold and damp-
ness. We have only two inspectors to
aid us in this great city built upon many
hills and which extends over both sides
of the Bosphorus.”

It further states that extensive work
was done for injured animals by the
Society during the period of the earth-
quakes and floods. Into one important
district an inspector was sent and,
thanks to the co-operation of the gov-
ernment oﬂ‘icials, the Society was able,
at Brousse and in neighboring villages,
to save 17,855 heads of livestock; in
another case 3,000. The Society ex-
presses its hearty appreciation of the
assistance given it by the government
officials in the districts most seriously
affected. Without the prompt and effi-
cient aid of the officials it would have
been impossible to accomplish all that
was done.

All together, 22,000 heads of livestock
were cared for, thanks to the prompt ac-
tion and generous gift of the Royal S. P.
C. A. of London; 8,200 cruel devices for
inﬂicting suffering upon animals were
conﬁscated: and the new ﬁlm, “In Be-
half of Animals,” was shown in many
Turkish schools.

The report says, “To the American
Humane Education Society of Boston,
we are deeply grateful for the generous
gift of $150 for our work in the schools
and for the beautiful ﬁlm, ‘In Behalf of
Animals.’ It is our hope that our Society
will become some day as great and as
useful in this country as those of Eng—
land and America.”

Here are some of the statistics in
their Hospital report:
Dogs restored to their owners, or

given a new home ........... 68

Dogs humanely put to sleep . . 1,917
Cats humanely put to sleep . 5,293
Horses humanely put to sleep . . 12
Asses humanely put to sleep. . . . 1.

Oct. 1941

Operations ................... 60
Wagons lightened of their loads . 781
Birds liberated .............. 191

Animals cared for ............. 10,066

No small amount of credit for this
magniﬁcent piece of work, done under
such unusual and discouraging condi-
tions, we know, is due to that devoted
and unselﬁsh worker, Mrs. Manning,
long connected with Robert College, Con-
stantinople, and secretary of the Turk-
ish Society.

The F ondouk Carries On

THE following letter and report has
just been received from Mr. Guy

Delon, superintendent of the Fondouk,

in Fez, Morocco:

Dear Dr. Rowley:

Many thanks for your kind letter of
May 29 just on hand. I hope that our
permit to transfer funds will remain
good and that I shall be able to carry on
our work.

I send you hereafter copy of my re-
port for June:

Daily average, large animals 9.1

Entries: 7 horses, 5 mules, 17 don-
keys.

Exits: 4 horses, 5 mules, 27 donkeys.

Out—patients: 291 horses, 50 mules,
185 donkeys, 7 dogs.

Inspections;
Fondouks visited .............. 397
Animals inspected ............. 7,247
Animals treated ............... 509
Animals sent to Hospital ....... 82
Pack-saddles and bits destroyed . . 3
Animals sent by Police Dept. . . . 21

I enclose a photograph of a mule hos—
pitalized on June 21, seriously wounded
on neck by a cut.

Very sincerely yours,

(Signed) GUY DELON
Superintendent

Of course, all of us interested in that
ﬁne piece of work are glad to know that,
in spite of all this unspeakable war, so
much is being done.

From Historic Lebanon

Our representative in Beirut, Leba-
non, Syria, tells us that in spite of the
horror and turbulence that are all about
them, they are still carrying on the
humane work on a small scale. Eleven
Bands of Mercy were organized during
the month of May in Lebanon and nine
in Syria. He says, “You can never im—
agine the very critical situation our
country is in, and it is expected that in
three months, or four, many of the poor
people here will starve to death.”

“I am still glad that we are able to
do even as much as we are, While the
minds of the people are taken up with
so many other things.”




 

 

 

 

 

 

mm fﬁeﬁmous --

Golden Glow Shop s”

 

 

 

 

 

non NEED

, » M0115

 

 

The Moxie Co., Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

W. F. LACEY 81 SONS CO.

Truck Bodies

54 MYSTIC AVENUE
MEDFORD

Telephone, MYS’ric 2880

 

 

 

JOHN J. WHITE CO.
Hay - Grain - Flour

Purina Chows
102 A STREET, SOUTH BOSTON
Telephone, SOUth Boston 1680

450 ARSENAL ST., WATERTOWN
Telephone, WATer’rown 3500

 

 

 

Paul E. Dutelle & Co., Inc.

ROOFERS

153 PEARL STREET
NEWTON, MASS.

Telephone, LASell 7282

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

JOHN McCOURT CO.
CONTRACTORS

910 HUNTINGTON AVE.
BOSTON

Telephone, BEAcon 0310

 

PILGRIM BADGE AND
LABEL CORP.

610 Memorial Drive - Cambridge
Telephone, Klelond 8083

 

 

Monarch Printing Co.

25 ARCH STREET, BOSTON
Telephone, LlBer’ry 9187

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

COMPLIMENTS OF

BECKWITH’S RIDING
APPAREL
37 ESSEX STREET, BOSTON

 

 

 

 

Danker & Donahue, Inc.
PACKARD SALES and SERVICE
10 Peabody Street

Garage at 462 BROOKLTNE AVE., BOSTON

ASPinwoll 5225

 

 

 

 

J. J. Delaney, Inc.

CHEVROLET CARS
1590 Blue Hill Avenue - Mattapan

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

COMPLINENTS OF
Alger Bros., Inc.

TRUCKING
131 Linwood Street - Somerville

 

 

BRIGHAM’S MARKET

A FULL LINE OF FANCY MEATS, FISH,
GROCERIES, VEGETABLES, FRUITS
Fresh Eggs. Butter and Cheese a Specialty
641a. HUNTINGTON AVENUE, BOSTON
Telephone, LONgwood 5092
Quick Service — Free Delivery

 

 

Macalaster Bicknell Co.
171 WASHINGTON STREET
CAMBRIDGE

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

J. B. Hunter Co.
HARDWARE

60 Summer Street - Boston, Mass.
Telephone, LIBerty 5565

 

 

 

 

 

N. E. Gas Prmlucts, Inc.
27 WEST STREET
CHARLESTOWN. MASS.

 

 

 

 

 

 

WM. M. COLLINS CO.

Plumbing and Heating
150 TYLER STREET, BOSTON
Telephone, HANcock 6270

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 194

My Animal Friends

Salvatore Marsiglia

I must an ear lend to the songs
That float from every tree,

And view the tiny feathered friends
That fill the air with glee—

The robin and the meadowlark
The cardinal’s bright red—

They are past masters of the art
Of gay song overhead.

I must caress each passing cat,
Or stop to speak a word

And shake the paw of every dog
By friendly whistle spurred.

For it is like a law with me
That must be e’er obeyed—

I must be kind to every thing
In street or woodland glade.

And so, because so many cats
Are friendless and alone,

So many dogs that walk the streets
Have no homes of their own,

A sense of pity overwhelms
And stirs my well-fed heart

To help these orphaned cats and dogs
In doing my small part.

Editors, Please Note

HEY had said, “He’s the toughest

managing editor in the business; it’s
misery to work for him.” And so I sat
uneasily at the newspaper’s copy desk
that ﬁrst night, wondering if I had not
made a mistake in changing jobs.

It was a blustery, ink-black night. All
that day, snow had fallen, and now the
city was thickly blanketed. The weather
forecast was not encouraging —— more
snow, to be followed by high winds and
intense cold.

During a lull in the ﬂow of news, I
paused to look at him more closely. He
sat straight as an Army captain at the
large central desk, his jaw set grimly,
his eyes intent upon a press report. The
eyes were steel-blue, completely unsmil—
ing. I thought of their words, “We call
him Stone Face.”

Snow was drifting down again, pep-
pering whitely against the editorial
room windows. He looked at it for a
moment, and then he rose from his chair
and walked over to the copy desk. I pre-
tended to busy myself, waiting for the
ﬁrst baptism of ﬁre.

He said, “That weather story on page
one; it needs something. Let’s have a
little boxed story right at the beginning.
Let’s remind everyone to put seeds and
meat scraps in their yards tomorrow. If
Ehey don’t, the birds are going to suf-

er.”

I felt suddenly relaxed, no longer fear-
ful about having taken the job with him.
I knew now that the steel-hard face was
only surface-deep —- that they were
wrong. L, C,

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Oct. 1941

Oxen Are Powerful Beasts
SIGMUND SAMETH, M.A.

 

NEGRO FARM FAMILY ON WAY TO TOWN WITH THEIR

 

   

OX

DRAWING THE WAGON

0ST frequently mentioned beast
Mof draught in the Bible, the 0x,

still remains one of man’s most
useful helpers in regions where swampy
land is encountered. United States De-
partment of Agriculture reports indicate
that the number of oxen in use on farms
in this country is increasing, and that,
with impending rationing of tractor fuel,
the humble 0x will assume even greater
importance as a cog in agricultural pro—
duction.

The early history of our country is
fairly crisscrossed with the oxen trails
made by the lumbering beasts who
hauled the pioneers’ crude carts and
Conestoga wagons. Especially in the
Southeastern part of the United States
ox—cart transport was common. Many of
the double-rutted roads later became
arterial branches of our great national
highways, but in the mountain regions
around Chattanooga and Cumberland
Gap, and from those points branching
in all directions westward, remnants of
the great trail system made by four-
footed beasts still exist to tempt the ad-
venturous motor tourist of a more me-
chanical age.

The Southeast still leads the nation in
the number of oxen used for draught
purposes. Broad splayed feet and power-
ful hams and shoulders permit the ox to
outhaul his weight in either mules or
horses. Especially in the swamp country
of the tidewater lowlands Where other
creatures of half his weight would soon
become mired down, the tireless ox plods
on patiently. Whether he be hauling tim-
ber out of the great abandoned turpen-
tine forests or a farmer’s wagon over
muddied dirt roads, he shows the same
patience and reserve of power which

have always marked him. The ox may
not be as speedy as the other work ani-
mals of the region. You cannot work him
twelve hours a day, either, as a man can
work a tractor. But where the other ani-
mals turn back with eyes dilated and
nostrils quivering and the tractor is
stopped because it has not room to turn,
the ox will plunge in and perform his
task heroically.

Flat on his stomach in mire with
great hoofs churning like the stern
Wheel of a river steamboat, the ox hauls
and strains at the tow chain. And he’ll
pull until the load is out of the swamp,
until the last log is hauled up by the
side of a concrete road where less
sturdy carriers can take over. The Arabs
may have their camel, India its tame ele-
phants, Laplanders their reindeer—but
backwoods farmers in the United States,
who have heavy hauling to do, have the
ox, every bit as American as our nation—
al bald eagle.

Spiders step carefully so as not to
get caught in their own webs, says a
writer in Stepping Stones. They always
put their feet on certain threads in the
web that are heavier than the rest of
the ﬁlaments and not equipped with the
sticky stuff that entraps insect victims.
This is most easily seen in the wheel-
shaped webs of the orb-weaving spiders.
The “glueless” threads are the straight
“spokes” of the Wheel. These, and not
the connecting rungs, are the spider’s
footpaths.

Our readers are urged to clip from
“Our Dumb Animals” various articles
and request local editors to republish.
Such copies will be made good by us
upon application.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 22!;

Z00 Animals’ Christmas

Maud E. Uschold

Look to the East for a star tonight;

Look to the heavens tor a guiding light.
(We look; we look; but the light burns low
And the star moves on; we cannot go.)

This is the night of the holy birth,

01‘ hope and peace, good will on earth.
(We hear the wassail, the clinking glass,
The pledges said at the Christly mass.

And we pace our cells and pace again

To the throb of ”peace, good will to men.”

Time runs slow to our sleepless eyes;

The prison stench lifts to the skies.

The clean winds call where free winds blow;
But the light moves on. We cannot go.)

Tragedies of the Highways

FERN BERRY

ROM January 1 to September 15 in

the current year motor vehicle trafﬁc
took a known toll of 2,982 pheasants and
4,604 rabbits in the Lower Peninsula of
Michigan. Added to this terriﬁc toll are
1,187 squirrels, 198 opossums, 568
skunks, 546 muskrats, 48 quail, 289 deer,
43 raccoons and 432 miscellaneous birds!
In Upper Michigan, where wild life is
more plentiful, tourists are the chief
attraction for summer income to the
cities and villages, and so a campaign to
bring motorists to the forests and natu-
ral beauties of the region is carried on.

The toll of wildlife, especially deer, is
great. In certain areas salt blocks were
placed some distance from the roads in
order to keep the deer away from the
highways where the chemicals used to
lay dust attracted them. As high as 40
deer were killed in 15 days in a twenty-
ﬁve mile stretch of road. Porcupines are
also victims of speeding motorists of Up-
per Michigan. These animals, like deer,
relish salt, and the roadway is strewn
with the dead bodies of the spiny little
animals. Next comes the woodchuck, of
which Upper Michigan has many. He is
a fearless, friendly animal and will not
keep out of danger. The skunk, fox, rac-
coon and coyote are more shy, being kept
down by native trappers. Black bear,
which are plentiful, are often hit, usually
to the motorist’s sorrow. These big
bulky fellows are tough and hard to kill

and do much damage to the automobiles
that hit them.

The mole is an interesting little fellow.
His hand is a shovel; his eye is almost
gone, since it is not‘ needed, and his
strength is so great that, if a man’s
strength were in proportion, he could lift
more than 6,000 pounds. He can eat his
own weight in earthworms in 24 hours.

OUR

DUMB ANIMALS

Dec. 1941

The Remarkable Water-Buffalo

EWEN K. PATTERSON

 

WATER BUFFALO AGAINST BACKGROUND OF TROPICAL JUNGLE

NE of the most interesting fea—
0 tures of the East Indies is the

manner in which the water-buf—
falo has been domesticated by the na—
tives of the islands. In all other parts
of the world where the buffaloes are
found they are regarded as very dan—
gerous beasts, and in most places are
shot on sight. In the East Indies, how-
ever, the animals are very friendly to—
wards the natives; they are extensively
used as beasts of burden, and in the
hands of the natives are as docile as
any domestic animal. In fact, tiny native
children can control whole herds of the
massive creatures, which allow the
youngsters to ride on their backs, pull
their tails, and even sit on their huge
heads! Yet the animals have an intense
dislike for white people, and invariably,
for some inexplicable reason, they will
instantly charge any white person they
see.

The water—buffaloes are vastly differ—
ent from the buffaloes which originally
roamed the great plains of North Amer-
ica. They are called water-buffaloes be-
cause they love to wallow in water and

mud. In the East Indies, during very'

hot weather, it is by no means unusual
to see herds of hundreds of the beasts
dozing in shallow swamps and lagoons,
lying in the muddy water with only their
heads showing above the surface. They
are enormous, slow-moving animals,
powerful, with great spreading horns,
and grayish-black or pink hides. The
average buffalo bull weighs between two

and three tons, and his hide is about an
inch thick.

Because of the great strength of the
anlmals, they are very popular as beasts

of burden in the East Indies, particular—
ly in mountainous districts too rough
for horses. The animals can carry big
loads on their backs, while they are also
used for hauling plows and for drawing
cartloads of produce, etc. Some of the
natives think so much of their buffaloes
that the tame animals are often provided
with boots when traveling in rough,
stony country! The boots are made from
old rubber automobile tires.

When a buffalo dies its horns are al-
ways carefully preserved by the owner,
who hangs them over the door of his
house; the natives believe that horns
displayed in such a manner will bring
them good luck.

The buffaloes have remarkably large
horns; usually they measure about ﬁve
feet across from tip to tip and six feet
around the outer curves, their diameter
at the base being between eight and
nine inches. Some old bulls, however,
have much larger horns than that.
Throughout the East Indies are to be
seen many veteran buffaloes, domesti-
cated animals ﬁfty to seventy years of
age, with mighty horns measuring nine
and ten feet around the outer curves.
The world’s largest pair of horns came
from an old bull that died in the East
Indies a few years ago. He was said to
be over 100 years of age when he died,
and his horns, which are now in the
British Museum, London, measured
exactly twelve feet, eleven inches around
the outer curves, while at the base they
were twelve inches in diameter.

Begin now to prepare for Humane
Sunday, April 19, and Be Kind to
Animals Week, April 20-25, 1942.

 




//__..~ ,
/l
/ ’ -
“'7’ ”,M
/
i

 

//Wo WC
/ [méﬂﬂf‘Q/ﬂﬂﬂ

connmm m ~ ,

THE HUDSON COUNTY DISTRWT
SOCIETY F08 THE mmmx i3?
QBUELTY m mmaﬁ
J. b. JACCARD, Pmidme
164 JOHNSTON AVENUI

 

 

 




Oct. 191,1

Happy Landing
Florence Romaine

She dodged the speeding traffic

With a timid, frightened air—

A little terrier-pup a few weeks old—
Amid the honking taxis

And the crowd that didn’t care,

Till she reached the curb

To crouch there in the cold.

Her soft brown eyes looked into mine;
Her tail began to wag.

“Please take me home,” she seemed to say—-
“Just put me in your bag!"

Who could resist her pleading?

Not I, at any rate.

Perchance our casual meeting

Was all arranged by Fate,

For now, upon a cushion

Sits that little terrier stray;

Well-fed, well-brushed and cherished,

She rules our house today!

A Pampered Guest

AMELIA WOFFORD

N one occasion Charles Lamb left

his dinner table and his guests to
open his garden gate for the entrance
of a stray donkey, his grass plot offering
a more plenteous pasturage than the
turf of the neighboring common.

It was this kindly feeling for dumb
animals that gave “Dash,” Thomas

 

“TIPPY,’ PRIZE-WINNING PHOTOGRAPH

By Lewis A. Babb

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Hood’s dog who had been placed
in care of the Lambs, pre-emi—
nence in their household. Charles
Lamb loved long, solitary rambl«
ing walks, but with Dash for a
companion, for he would not
leave the dog at home and deny
him the pleasure he enjoyed. He
did not have one happy moment,
for Dash, instead of trotting for
a short distance before him or
behind him, was always out of
sight, exploring the ﬁelds and
roads or running up and down
“all manner of street”; and his
master was always in fear that
the animal might be lost. Yet he
could not persuade himself to
leave Dash at home or to control
him, for fear he might spoil the
dog’s enjoyment of the outing.

“The gentle Elia” was not par—
tial to vising Regent Park, but
discovering that Dash favored it
for explorations, there he would
go. And there he experienced his
most anxious moments. For no
sooner had he entered the Park
than Dash would disappear for a
half hour or more, and there
Lamb would stay, fearing that
should he leave and Dash not
ﬁnd him there on his return, the
dog might wander away and be

Page 195

 

PRIZE-WINNING PHOTOGRAPH
By Mrs. Arthur Kent

 

lost.

At last came a day when the Lambs,
Charles and Sister Mary, decided they
must be rid of their too lively
guest. That was the day they
were to dine with their good
friend, Coventry Patmore. They
took Dash with them, and asked
their host to relieve them of his
charge.

If they kept him any longer,
Mary said, he “would be the
death of Charles.”

Dash was a large, handsome
dog of a “curious breed.” Their
host had always admired him,
and willingly assumed his care.

The sagacity that had in-
formed Dash of the tolerance of
the Lambs, informed him of the
ﬁrmer temper of his new host.
Under Patmore’s wise rule Dash,
said his new master, “subsided
into the best-bred and the best-
behaved of his species.”

The bloodhound is an aristo-
crat among dogs and came by its
name by virtue of its blue blood,
not because of any special adap-
tation for scenting the blood of
criminals.

All members of the cat family
like catnip. It has a stimulating
effect on lions, tigers, bobcats,
lynx, and cougars, as well as cats.

Care of Your Dog

IVE your dog a good bed, writes

Angelo Patri in a copyrighted are
ticle (Bell Syndicate). Usually dogs, es-
pecially the kind that belong to children,
are outdoor animals. That does not mean
that they can stay out in all weathers.
Far from it. They must be sheltered
from storms just as children have to be.
But they do not need to be kept as warm.
They prefer a cool place. And a rather
cool bed. Down cushions and that sort of
thing are not good for dogs. Give them
a clean, heavy mat, in a sheltered corner
of the barn or kennel, keep it off the
ﬂoor if there is any dampness, and he
will like it.

In winter, keep him warmer. He can’t
endure zero weather without protection.
It sounds foolish to say that, because
everybody is supposed to know it, but I
have known people who thought they
were kind to their dogs to put them out
at night and shut the door behind them.
“Put the dog out,” and out he went with-
out a roof over him, or a bed under him.

Your dog friend has to depend upon
your good will and service for his drink.
Don’t fail him. Keep his dish clean and
full of good water.

Teach a child to cherish his dog. They
will grow together and do each other a
lot of good. But don’t get the dog until
the child is a responsible, friendly young
person who knows what caring for a
dog friend means.

 

 




 

Dec. 191,1

There is Peace
Judy Van der Veer

On Christmas day who dares to think
Of those who go to fight and die,
Of terror underneath a star

That rises in the Eastern sky?

Today I said I'd think of hills

That know the goodness of the rain,
And I would think of how the earth
Gives living to a field of grain.

Consider now the quiet way

The cattle rest and move about,

As if there’s something in their hearts
That speaks of peace, within, without.

The seasons change unchangeably,

The sheep bring forth their lambs in spring,
And I shall look with grateful eyes,

On every lowly peaceful thing.

Pets as Christmas Gifts
T. J. MCINERNEY

HE approach of the Christmas sea-
son brings to mind the question of
whether or not it is advisable to give
pets to children as gifts at this time.
The person who gives a puppy or a kit-
ten or some other little animal to a child
as a Christmas present may be moti-
vated by the best of intentions, but the
results to the pet may be unfortunate.
Last Christmas the ﬁve-year—old son
of a neighbor of mine received a fox
terrier puppy from a well-meaning uncle.
The donor neglected to ﬁrst ﬁnd out the
attitude of the child’s parents toward
such a gift. Had he done so, he would
have learned that the child’s mother had
that hard-to-understand hatred ‘of all
things in the four-footed kingdom. The
result was that she promptly “washed
her hands” of all matters pertaining to
the puppy. Her dictum was that the child
would have to take care of his little pet.
Well, with characteristic childlike fer-
vor, the little fellow took good care of
his pet for about a week. After that, it
was not a rarity to see the little fellow
dragging his pet along the street on a
crude “leash” consisting of heavy wrap-
ping cord. On more than one occasion,
I heard the puppy squeal with pain when
his little master inadvertently stepped
on his paw while they were “playing.”
One of the happiest days of my life
occurred when the child’s parents, in ex—
asperation, gave the puppy to a child-
less couple who really love animals and
who are taking good care of it.

Some children, of course, love little
animals and will take good care of them.
It seems to me, however, that they should
beat least seven or eight years of age
and that their parents should be agree-
able to it before they are given pets as
gifts.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 225

Famous Actress at Angell Hospital

 

KATHARINE CORNELL HAS HER DACHSHUND, “LOONEY,”
TREATED AT ANGELL ANIMAL HOSPITAL, BOSTON

Katharine Cornell, recently starring
in the George Bernard Shaw play,
“The Doctor’s Dilemma,” at the Shubert
Theater, Boston, was a surprise visitor
at the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital.

Miss Cornell called upon a patient —
her own pedigreed dachshund, “Looney,”

who was entered in the Angell Animal
Hospital for treatment of a sprained
leg, the result of a fall, and for a gen-
eral check-up. Following her visit, Miss
Cornell made a tour of inspection
through the institution as the guest of
President Francis H. Rowley.

 

During the early part of December
the writer plans to send letters to the
editors of all newspapers in and about
New York City, urging adults to exer-
cise care in this matter of giving pets
to children. It might be well if other
friends of animals were to do the same
in other cities. Let’s do all we can to
make sure that some little four-footed
creature doesn’t have a miserable Christ-
mas, yea, a miserable lifetime, because
he was given to some'little two-footed
creature not trained or temperamentally
suited to care for it.

Merger in Fort Worth

Congratulations to the Tarrant County
Humane Society of Fort Worth, Texas,
and the Fort Worth S. P. C. A., which
recently completed consolidation into one
organization to be known as the Humane
Society. At this meeting the guest speak-
ers were Walter J. Dethloff, superinten—
dent of the Wisconsin Humane So-
ciety, and H. B. Goodnight of Dallas,
president of the Texas State Humane
Society.

V’
1‘

Atlantic City Honors Dog

An Associated Press dispatch to the
Boston H erald, dated October 18, told of
“Rags,” ﬂop-eared mongrel dog, that
met all incoming trains at Atlantic City,
day and night, for twelve years, being
honored as few humans are honored.

A bronze plaque, “In Memory of Rags,
a Great Mascot and a Good Railroader,
1928—1941,” permanently installed on the
cornerstone of Atlantic City’s $4,000,000
union terminal, was unveiled with elab-
orate ceremony as hundreds of police-
men, taxicab drivers, red caps and com-
muters applauded.

Governmental authorities, business
leaders and railroad ofﬁcials took turns
eulogizing Rags, and a WPA brass band
played suitable music. Scores of boys
were there, too, together with their dogs.

Two months before, Rags showed signs
of getting old, narrowly escaped'being
killed by automobiles. Railroad employes
put him “on pension,” and sent him to
S. P. C. A. headquarters. He died4a .week
later of what friends say was. abroken
heart.

i

 

 

 

=ng Lave; _- g;

 

eg' .‘

 

 

 

 




 

 

ABERTHAW COMPANY
CONTRACTORS

80 Federal Street Boston

Telephone, LlBer’ry 1264

 

 

The Crossing Press
PRINTERS

1143 Columbus Ave., Boston
Telephone, GARrison 2656

 

 

 

 

 

H. B. CHURCH TRUCK SERVICE
COMPANY

26 Reading Street - Roxbury
Telephone, HlGhlonols 2200

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A. TOWLE COMPANY
TRUCKMEN

135 High Street

Boston, Mass.

Telephone, HANcock 0312

J. J. Delaney, Inc.

CHEVROLET CARS
1590 Blue Hill Avenue - Mattapan

 

 

 

 

WALTHAM SALES BOOK
COMPANY, INC.

144 Moody Street Waltham
Telephone, WAL’rhom 2222

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Motor Car Company of New England

852 Commonwealth Ave., Boston
Telephone, LONgwoocl 5360

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TROWbridge 0347 Estimates Given Established 1922

JOHN T. POINGDESTER

Painter and Paper Hanger
563 FRANKLIN STREET CAMBRIDGE, MASS.

WESTWO’OD FARM MILK
COMPANY

11 Ballard Street Jamaica Plain
Telephone, ARNold 1033

 

 

 

 

 

 

Compliments of the

CLARK and MILLS ELEC. CO.
75 Newbury St., Boston

Specialists in Fluorescent Lighting

 

 

 

 

 

FRANK S. LARKIN

PLUMBING

263 SUMMER STREET Telephone, LIBerty 1280

 

 

BOSTON, MASS.

 

 

 

 

 

OAKLAND GRANITE
COMPANY

METHUEN, MASS.

 

 

 

 

C. H. HANSON CO., Inc.

High Grade Draft Horses

51 CUSHING STREET —- LOWELL

Telephone, LOWell l54-W Mr. Sweeney

 

 

 

 

 

 

A FRIEND

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A Friend

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Page 226

The Singing Cock
Kadra Maysi

The singing cock, from dusk till dawn,
Must tell the hours of Christmas Eve.
Until the Saviour’s night is gone
He cannot stop, and on and on
He calls without reprieve.

A legend says, when morn is red

As rose against the Alpine snow,
He folds his wings and finds his bed,
Secure that evil folk have fled

With darkness. —But I know

That, long ago, his watch was set
On Peter in the judgment hall

Of Pilate. He cannot forget

Betrayal, and he warns us yet
With his nocturnal call.

The Baltimore oriole builds the largest
and ﬁnest bag—nest. Black horse—hair
makes up some of the most beautiful, al-
though strings are sometimes used. Fre-
quently the nest is a mixture of hair,
grass, string, and ﬁbers ﬁnely woven and
matted into an incredibly solid bag that
is used only once, but which will remain
in good condition for several years.

Each kind of bird builds its nest at a
certain deﬁnite height from the ground
year after year. Bank swallows nest in
claybanks, tree swallows build high up
in dead-tree holes, crows and hawks g0
high up in a treetop, hummingbirds pre—
fer a horizontal branch, while the pewee
chooses a very high horizontal branch
for his home. The same birds return to
the same places year after year.

 

DOWNY WOODPECKER

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Dec. 1941

Merry Christmas to the Birds
MARGARET NICKERSON MARTIN

Photographs from U. S. Bureau of Biological Survey

ET’S give the birds a merry Christ-
11 mas this year, too!

A great many of our feathered
friends stay with us through the long
winter months, particularly in the north-
ern states. They sometimes suffer real
hardship in doing so, unless we extend a
helping hand. Large city areas have
destroyed many of their former feeding
places and so they are more dependent
upon human generosity each year. The
fact too, that more and more people feed
the birds, entices them to stay during
the colder: winter months. We have a re-
sponsibility in caring for them, in return
for their cheerful little winter songs.

Not only should we assure the birds
a happy Christmas but we should also
begin feeding them earlier in the season.
As soon as the seed-pods are gone from
the gardens and the ground is too hard
to yield the needed grit for their diges-
tive action, so necessary to their health,
we should begin food distribution and
get feeding stations erected.

A feeding station, either built upon a
convenient window-ledge or upon a tree
or post, is best in really cold weather.
Some protection from wind and snow
should be provided, if possible, by mak—
ing three—sided shelters with a roof and
automatic feeder. However, a simple
ledge upon your window or porch rail
is as deeply appreciated by our little
friends as the ﬁnest station you can
build. Birds are simple folk and will eat
as happily from a crust of snow as any-
where.

One friend I know, has a three—sided
feeding station made like a little open-
faced shed, complete with roof and
porch. It hangs upon a pulley attached
to her clothesline. When the food supply
needs replenishing, she simply pulls the
little house in and places the food aboard.
It swings with the wind and sparrows
have been known, she says, to take ad-
vantage of its shelter for the night.

A window—ledge feeding platform is
especially enjoyable both for the birds
and the household, if you have a “shut-
in” in your home. The birds will come
freely to the window as soon as they
learn that food will be placed there regu-
larly. The window can be raised from
the inside and the “shut-in” may have
the pleasure of watching the birds at
close range. Sparrows, blue jays, car—
dinals and nuthatches will generally re-
main through the winter. A blue jay or
cardinal against the white of snow and
ice, is a picture to delight the eye of an
artist! The “Cheer! Cheer!” of the
cardinal rings out as happily on the
frosty air of winter as in summer. Mrs.

 

WHITE—BREASTED NUTHATCH

Cardinal, though not as ﬂashy as her
vivid mate, wears her lovely coral bill
and pink—tipped wings with modest
grace. I have seen this pair after an
ice storm, sitting on my feeding tray,
with their tail feathers frozen in a solid
mass of ice. Had they been compelled
to ﬂy a long distance for their food, they
must surely have gone hungry.

A sheltered place by a porch or build-
ing is a good place to scatter the extra
table scraps and pieces of toast left from
breakfast. Mixed grain, such as one
might feed chickens, is sometimes pro-

vided by local or State Conservation

Leagues. This grain is generally free for
the asking and provides a more balanced
diet for the birds. Care should be taken
to provide roughage in the form of sand,
gravel or Cinders. This is their “teeth”
and is necessary for the digestion of
their food. Birds may starve to death
with full crops because they can ﬁnd no
grit with which to digest food. Before the
soil in your garden has frozen over, ﬁll
a large container with enough grit to
last the winter and keep it in the base-
ment for this purpose. Many bird stores
in the larger towns sell coarse gravel
which is perfectly satisfactory and re—
quires.» only about ﬁve cents a pound and
a little forethought.

We have a feeding tray on the win-
dew and two on the clothes-post in the
back-yard. Also a “swept place” by the
back steps. In winter our friends Wait
more or less patiently and not at all
silently, in the thornapple tree, until th
back door opens and “soup is on i” e

 

 




 

 

Dec. 191,1

The Pigeon is Drafted
Mariorie Hunt Pettit

Sturdy little messenger,

Eager and intent,

In the feathered uniform

Of your regiment—-

Do you dread the passage home
Through disputed skies?

Do you question or debate

Where your duty lies?

In the moment you attain
Freedom of release,

Instinct reasserts itself,

Gentle bird of peace.

Love of home still motivates
All your active span;

Such a heritage would grace
Either bird or man.

 

Grackles, blackbirds, jays, cardinals,
sparows, nuthatches, chickadees and
often other varieties of birds become our
regular boarders. They are loud in
their praise of the bill—of—fare and we
have had many laughs from their scraps
over extra large pieces of toast or bread.

As a special treat at or near Christ-
mas time, we hang a small tree in the
yard with popped corn and suet. The
latter can also be tied to a post or bush
in an old soap strainer, if you have one
you do not use any more. Any wire con-
tainer that will admit the bird’s bill will
do. The succulent fat will help to keep
the birds warm. When you have ﬁnished
with the family Christmas tree, decorate
it’s branches with festoons of pop-corn
and cranberries or bits of suet and set
it out in the yard. It will last several
weeks and furnish the birds with a real
Christmas treat.

Remember the birds at Christmas, but
remember them the rest of the winter,
too! They will repay any slight trouble
it may be, a thousandfold. They will
gladly sing for their suppers, or any
other meal for that matter. Birds pay
real dividends in happiness. They are
your active friends in' summer. Be
their active friend in winter!

The Retort Courteous!

Under the title, “Where It Should Be,”
the Boston Globe publishes the follow-
ing:

The young author sent the manuscript
of a book he had written to the literary
editor asking him for his opinion of it,
and mentioned that he had several other
irons in the ﬁre. “Put this with the other
irons,” came back the brief reply.

Bird banding operations by the
federal government have been conducted
since 1920. In that time 3,700,000 birds
of 478 species have been tagged with
numbered aluminum leg bands.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 227

* Beneath the Cedars
ALVIN M. PETERSON

Photograph by the Author

 

WINTER FEEDING PLACE FOR BOB -WHITE

cedar about ﬁfteen feet tall that has

lower branches about six feet in
length. It stands near the fence, a little
over a rod from our east windows, and
daily is of much service and interest both
to us and the birds. Beneath its shelter-
ing branches I long have been feeding
from ﬁfteen to forty bob-whites. Little
did I think when I brought it home and
planted it therethat we daily would
watch it and the happy, contented birds
feeding beneath it. Little wonder, for it
was a tiny plant when I found it and
lifted it, actually so small that I carried
it home in a pocket.

That tree has long been a favorite
with birds. True, the fact that the birds
ﬂock to it has largely been due to our
efforts, though I saw that the birds often
congregated in or beneath it even before
we began to use the ground about it for
a feeding station. Our bob-whites often
ran to it, hid beneath it, or squatted in
a compact group and rested there even
when we fed them elsewhere. Noticing
their love for the tree I decided to feed
them near it.

I was agreeably surprised to ﬁnd that
the bob-whites remember the tree and
feeding-place from year to year, for
after the ﬁrst heavy snow in late au-
tumn, they are sure to visit it in search
of the corn they are conﬁdent of ﬁnd-
ing there. Thereafter hardly a day do
they miss all winter long. It is, in fact,
the center about which their daily life
revolves, or the spot about which all
their activities center for several months
each year.

l ll 1 HE cedar to which I refer is a red

Sometimes, when I take walks in the
neighborhood, I see them flying off
across the ﬁelds, their ﬂight, as likely
as not, taking them straight towards
the cedar. More often, one sees them
walking or running, following a path or
fence that eventually takes them to the
spot they love best. Sometimes they come
ﬂying from the west, half circle the
house, and drop to the ground a short
distance fromthe tree. The moment
they touch the ground away they go,
running straight to the bare ground
upon which the corn daily is thrown.
There they quickly gobble a few kernels,
then feast in more leisurely fashion,
scratching like little hens, rising on tip—
toes and ﬂapping their wings, some-
times so vigorously that they are lifted
bodily from the ground.

Their appetites satisﬁed they squat be-
neath the tree for a long time, usually
until hungry again, then have another
bite to eat. Many days they remain
either beneath the cedar or a near-by
grape trellis all day long. Towards eve-
ning they ﬂy off and spend the night
elsewhere, only to return the next morn-
ing, often before it is fully light. Pretty
tree and dear chubby birds, you add
much to my happiness. May you both
continue to prosper and long give grace
and interest to the yard!

Our readers are‘urged to clip from
“Our Dumb Animals” various articles
and request local editors to republish.
Such copies will be made good by us
upon application.

 

I, I Y . .y A“ .4... . V, <4 . ._ .A — nag, :7 xx; ~. 1 .‘~ . ;_.).;—’___>. A;
"<~>-—1;tz,t;-: *-_ -— .324 o, 2 a» .. A *1 1-, ’v . ‘. .1; :_.__ - —-. ~44; «, . _.:-:~:?- "tr. -.'-~ -\

as?“ :

‘ '.=‘-:‘ «we;

\ is}:

2%; .Vé—Z-L-Gn' 1.1..."I ‘ ..

1;; s A 2,). *-

:_s‘

 

 

 

 




 

V

 

Dec. 1941

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

The Amusing and Useful Cat

gV’T "'-'.343——‘ w~ ~ .- M~%“~:--_ Elm. ....

T different periods and
A in different countries

cats have served many
useful purposes.

Nearly one hundred cats
were released on the Calf of
Man, the islet off the Isle of
Man, to hunt down thou-
sands of rabbits which
threatened to overrun the
islet. Most of the churches
in Naples have three or four
cats attached to them. They
are kept for the purpose of
catching mice which infest
all ancient Neapolitan build-
ings. The animals may often
be seen walking about
among the congregation or
stretched before the altars.

Cats also have a commer-
cial importance in certain
lines of trade. Marine insur-
ance does not cover damage
done to the cargo by rats,
but if the proprietor of the
merchandise injured can
prove that the ship was not
furnished with a cat, he can
recover compensation from
the owner of the vessel. A
ship found under certain circumstances
without a living creature on board is
considered a derelict, and property
rights in her are forfeited. It has fre—
quently occurred, after a ship has been
abandoned, that a live cat discovered on
board has saved the vessel from being
condemned. For such reasons ship-
owners take care not to send vessels to
sea without a cat.

In the cold storage warehouses of
Pittsburgh cats of a special breed have
been domesticated. Those establishments
are much beset by rats, and on this ac-
count ordinary pussies were introduced.
They could not stand the cold, and soon
died. At length a sturdy female was ac-
climated in one of the warehouses, grow-
ing fat where the temperature was be-
low thirty degrees. She gave birth to
kittens which grew into thick-furred
cats, suited to the Arctic conditions.
These kittens were distributed among
other cold storage houses, propagating
their kind, until now cold storage cats
are plentiful enough. They are chubbily
built, and have a great development of
the long hair of the mustache and eye-
brows, Which serve as feelers with which
to ﬁnd their way in the dark.

Even the government recognizes the
cat as a public servant. A large number
of felines are regularly in the employ of
the United States government and the
cost of their support is carried as an

 

CLARA MANDERSCHIED

THE FAMILY PET

item on the accounts of the Post Ofﬁce
Department. These cats are distributed
among the principal post offices in vari—
ous parts of the country, and their duty
is to keep rats and mice from eating
postal matter and mail saCks. Each city
postmaster is allowed a certain amount
a year for the board of his feline staff,
sending his estimate for cat meat to
Washington at the beginning of each
quarter. In the Post Office at Washington
may be found cats whose ancestors have
been on duty there for generations.

Hawthorne and His Cats

HE gifted author of “The Scarlet

Letter” and other noted books,
Nathaniel Hawthorne, had a marked
fondness for feline society.

In her charming book, “Romantic
Rebel,” Hildegarde Hawthorne, the au-
thor’s granddaughter, tells us among
the ﬁrst playmates which the lame young
Nathaniel had were three friendly, lively
kittens named “Rag,” “Tag,” and “Bob-
tail.” While his sisters were absent at
school, the young lad would amuse him-
self for hours with these sportive feline
companions.

At no time in Nathaniel’s boyhood
was his family without feline pets.
Usually there were not less than three or
four cats who had the run of the home
and enjoyed the best of care.

Page 229

At the time of his marriage, Haw-
thorne was elated to ﬁnd that Sophia,
his bride, shared his fondness for the
“graceful, clever, furry beasts.”

Soon after he left his mother’s house
to establish a home of his own, the cat
that had been Hawthorne’s particular
favorite at home, died. In informing
Hawthorne of the cat’s passing, his sis-
ter Louisa wrote in all seriousness that
“He broke his heart over losing you.”

Though he preferred cats to all other
dumb creatures, Hawthorne was inter-
ested in the welfare of all animals. The
cat, though, led in his affections. While
his colorful imagination was weaving
story after story to be transferred to
paper, a feline pet, year in and out,
invariably lay curled up cozily at his
.feet as he worked in his study.

Hawthorne instilled in his children a
love for all dependent creatures of fur
or feather. And he was never too busy
himself to come to the aid or rescue of
an animal.

Once, when his wife was obliged to
be absent from home for several days,
Hawthorne paused in the midst of press-
ing literary work to attend to his small
son’s pet rabbit. Despite his own prefer-
ence for cats, Hawthorne soon found
himself surprisingly attached to his vol—
untary charge. He provided the rabbit
with the choicest food —— gave the tiny
animal a whole room of the house for
its own use and the freedom of the lawn
as well. He was delighted when the nat-
urally shy little creature made itself at
home. He regarded it as a compliment
when the rabbit came hopping toward
him or climbed into his small son’s lap
without fear.

One night the Hawthornes’ cat fell
into the well, and her sad plight was not
discovered until the next morning. Again
the author abandoned his work and, not
without some difficulty, rescued kitty
with a pail tied to a rope. Then he
rubbed her weakened and weary body
with towels until it was warm and dry
once more, and fed her hot milk at inter—
vals until she fully recovered from her
harrowing experience.

Great genius though he was, Haw—
thorne seemed to feel that winning over
an animal or making it comfortable was
well worth the sacriﬁce of his valuable
time. M. A. C.

Feline Samaritans

A friend, whose wife was an eye-wit-
ness of the incident, sends us this pleas-
ing anecdote: “There are three cats at a
place I saw the other day, who, being fed
by their mistress, returned with a black
cat who had lost one eye and supposedly
could not hunt up food very well for
himself. Viva les trois chats!”

"r? l: .w‘: ;

«3‘;

~:‘-Z : «airﬂow; v. g .

.- .—' {v ‘5,"

 

 

 




 

 

May, 1941

Alexander Pope and His Dogs
AMELIA WOFFORD

LITTLE one, a lean one, and none

of the ﬁnest shaped. He is not much
a spaniel in his fawning, but he has what
might be any man’s while to imitate
him in, a dumb, surly sort of kindness,
that rather shows itself when he thinks
me ill-treated by others than when we
walk quietly or peaceably by ourselves.”

So Alexander Pope described “Mar—
quis,” his pet dog.

One day, on the poet’s return from a
walk with Marquis in the woods around
Twickenham, he discovered he had lost
his watch, a gift from the queen and
highly prized. Back he sent Marquis to
search for it. A hopeless quest, it would
seem, for the ground was strewn with
fallen leaves.

The afternoon passed, night came, and
Marquis had not returned. The next
morning, when the poet opened his bed-
room door, on the rug before it was
Marquis, with the watch, uninjured, in
his mouth.

Marquis was “little” and “lean,” loyal,
courageous, and strong. One night he
saved his master’s life and property by
attacking and overpowering his valet
who had plotted to kill him and rob the
house, and, pistol in hand, had entered
his bedroom with that intent.

The valet’s villainy explained Marquis"
persistent aversion to him, and gave an-
other proof of his remarkable sagacity.

“Bounce,” a great Dane, succeeded
Marquis. Unlike Marquis, whose ac-
quaintances seemed to have been limited
to the household, he was well known to
the London literati and his master’s
titled friends. After the publication of
the poet’s satirical poem, the “Dunciad,”
the resentment of the men who ﬁgured
in it ﬂared so high, his friends were
alarmed for his safety and warned him
against his customary solitary evening
walks. But he continued to enjoy them.
With Bounce for his companion, he had
nothing to fear. ‘

“O rare Bounce,” the epitaph the poet
chose for his tombstone, signiﬁed his
feeling for him. He did not use it be-
cause of its similarity to the epitaph,
“O rare Ben Jonson,” cut on the drama—
tist’s grave in Westminster Abbey. He
may have thought its use might imply
disrespect.

Endowed stalls and kennels are
needed in the Angel] Memorial Animal
Hospital. Payments of thirty-ﬁve dol-
lars for a kennel or seventy-ﬁve dollars
for a stall will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name. Terms of
permanent endowment of free stalls
and kennels will be given upon appli-
cation to the Treasurer, 180 Longwood
Avenue, Boston, who solicits corre-
spondence thereto.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

The Dog’s Sixth Sense

L. E. EUBANKS

EVERYONE who has been much with
dogs must have observed that our
canine friends are highly remarkable in
two particular abilities—instincts, as we
usually call them. One of these we call
the homing instinct, which the dog puts
to various uses. The other is that ability
or power to sense death or disaster with»
out any deﬁnite or explainable reason.

With the dog’s smelling sense so keen,
it can be readily understood how he ﬁnds
his way home even from a great dis-
tance, by following his own or his mas—
ter’s scent. But how can we explain the
fact that dogs taken hundreds of miles
away from home by car or train have
unerringly returned after weeks or
months of weary traveling?

No scent of their own nor of their
master’s on the ground! Hundreds of
such instances are recorded. No one has
explained how the animals do it, and
many authorities doubt that it ever will
be explained. As to the dog’s ability to
sense the approach of death, it may be
argued that in the case of illness in the
household a dog reacts to the feelings of
the persons around him—worry, anxiety
and apprehension that usually prevail in
a house where there is critical illness.

The dog is extremely sensitive to the
emotions of those with whom it lives,
and so in such a case the air of fore—
boding may partly account for the dog’s
understanding of the situation. But
there are other facts; how can we ex—
plain that many times a dog has clearly
shown by his actions that he was aware
of disaster at the exact moment his
master died miles away?

The Great War furnished many in-

stances to prove the truth of certain
qualities in men and dogs.

Devotion
Adam N. Reiter

You may not in the eyes of men
Be one of vaunted tame;
You may not rate a coat-of—arms—
Perhaps you're just a name
Unknown, unlettered and unsung;
A dolt or common clod:
But to the dog that worships you
You’re more than these—you're God.

Although the place wherein you dwell
ls but a dingy flat,

Your raiment coarse and stained by toil;
A dog cares naught for that;

He merely asks to share with you
Ot fortune, good or ill;

To love and serve and be with you
And dealt with as you will.

Scold him, starve him, torture him;
He'll cringe in pained surprise

And lie with head upon his paws,
To plead with patient eyes.

Cast him off. Desert him. Still,
He’ll tollow where you’ve trod,

To lick your boots and ioytully
Do homage—to his God.

And when you’ve done your last good deed
Or sinned your final sin,
And laid aside your pen or spade
And turned your time-sheet in,
To occupy as all must do
A cell beneath the sod:
Your dog, prostrate above you there
Will mourn his absent—God.

Join the Jack London Club, which
now has more than 803,000 members,
all pledged to do all in their power to
stop cruelties in training animals for
stage or screen. Write to 180 Longwood
Avenue, Boston, for full particulars and
samples of literature pertaining to this
subject.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 230

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the first Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwoo-d,
Massachusetts. Boston Office: 180 Longwood Av-
enue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addresed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WELIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

DECEMBER, 1941

 

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS, to take orders for Our Dumb Animals,
are wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are
offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about 300 words, are solicited. We
do not wish to consider prose manuscripts longer
than 500 words nor verse in excess of twenty-four
lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts should
be typewritten and an addressed envelope with. full
return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

Don’t Pity the Bees

N article appeared sometime ago in

the daily vvpress stating that colonies
of millions of bees had been drafted by
the Government in an experiment to
strengthen and control growing plants.
In this connection, the statement was
made that traps had been developed
which robbed the bees of their pollen as
they entered their hives. This trap is
simply two parallel pieces of square-
meshed cloth, about half an inch apart,
placed near the entrance to the hives.
The cloth brushes'the pollen off of the
bees as they follow the way into the
hive. The question has arisen as to
whether here was a possible form of
cruelty to which the bees might be sub-
jected.

We wrote to the United States Depart-
ment of Agriculture and received a care-
fully prepared pamphlet telling What this
all meant, and it is summed up by the
ofﬁcial in charge of the Division of Bee
Culture. This is what he says:

“The method of removing pollen is en-
tirely a painless one to the bees and,
by obtaining extra quantities of pollen
through the use of pollen traps, it is
possible for beekeepers to maintain much
stronger, healthier, and more productive
colonies and to provide better wintering
conditions for them.”

The main purpose of all this is evi-
dently to increase materially the number
of bees by using the pollen collected by
one hive which may have an excess of

the pollen for another which may have
too little. ‘

Endowed stalls and kennels are
needed in the Angell Memorial Animal
Hospital. Payments of thirty-ﬁve dol-
lars for a kennel or seventy-ﬁve dollars
for a stall will insure a suitable marker
Inscribed with donor’s name.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Dec. 1941

A New Ofﬁcial for the Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals and
the American Humane Education. Society

T a recent meeting of the Di-
A rectors of these two Societies, Mr.

Eric H. Hansen, at present Gen-
eral Manager of the American Humane
Association, with headquarters in A1—
bany, New York, was elected Execu—
tive Vice-President. Mr. Hansen’s service
will begin January 1, 1942.

Dr. Rowley, having been for thirty-
two years President and, asking to be
retired frOm the ofﬁce, was persuaded
by the Board of Directors to retain the
presidency as long as he was willing to
act in that capacity, Mr. Hansen being
chosen to serve under Dr. Rowley mean—
while, assuming the greater part of the
direction. and management of the two

organizations. It is understood that ulti-

mately Mr. Hansen will, in all probabil-
ity, be chosen as President.

Great care was taken by the Board of
Directors in selecting Mr. Hansen, who
seemed to be the one man in the country
best ﬁtted for this responsible position.
During correspondence with him he was
asked to make a full and detailed state-
ment of his life, the chief part of which
we are publishing here, with his photo-
graph.

Mr. Hansen comes of fine Danish and
English origin. He is thirty—eight years
of age, married and has one child, a son,
eleven years of age.

He graduated from Copenhagen Gym-
nasium, later took a post-graduate
course in New York City for admittance
to a post-graduate course in social work
in New York University. He later be-
came Chief License Clerk and Assistant
to District Manager of the American S.
P. C. A., New York City.

In 1931 he was elected Managing Di-
rector of the Humane Society of Mis-
souri, with headquarters in St. Louis.
After a very successful experience there
of six years, during which the Society in-
creased from a membership of 1,264 to
over 4,000, with a veterinary clinic es-
tablished and a ﬁne shelter, he was
elected as General Manager and Sec-
retary of the American Humane Associ-
ation, which is a federation of all the
Humane Societies of the country.

His work as General Manager of the
Association made him Assistant Editor
of The National Humane Review, in-
volved the organization of new Humane
Societies, much travel through the sev-
eral states, and brought him into con-
tact with all nationally known humane
leaders. Through his presence at numer-
ous national humane conventions and

 

 

Photo by Bachrach

ERIC H. HANSEN

his addresses, he has become thoroughly
well known to all the Humane Societies
of the country.

Mr. Hansen is a member of the First
Presbyterian Church in Albany, New
York.

Dr. Rowley, as well as the Board of
Directors, asks for Mr. Hansen the same
full conﬁdence of all the members of the
two Societies and the public, and the
same co-operation and’good will that
have been given him so generously dur-
ing the many years of his own service.

A Fine Deed Recognized

Having read the following, we have
sent to each of the seven ﬁne young
lads, from eight to eleven years old,
whose names have been given us
by the Postmaster of Woodland, Maine,
one of our medals and a letter express-
ing the Society’s appreciation of such
an act of kindness and good will:

“A doe, whose fawn had fallen into an
old well, kept Vigil at the scene deSpite
the appearance of humans, until seven
boys rescued her offspring. The youths
came upon the large doe while seeking
nuts on the Canadian side of the border
near here. The two boys climbed into
the well, but were unable to lift out the
fawn until their companions borrowed a
clothesline which they placed about the
animal’s body. The two animals then
ambled away.”

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Page 30

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the first Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Office: 180 Longwood Av-
enue, Boston, Mass, to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MO‘RRILL, Assistant

 

FEBRUARY, 1941

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS, to take orders for Our Dumb Animals,

are wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are

offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words, are solic-
ited. We do not Wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 500 words nor verse in excess of twenty-
four lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed enveZOpe with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

Dogs and Dogs

HE ﬁnancial losses caused by certain

dogs and the sufferings resulting
from such dogs, compel one to wonder
whether these dogs are born vicious,
destructive, or whether, properly trained
in their earlier days, they would have all
been good dogs.

From far back in the days before the
ancestors of our dogs had made friends
with man, they must have lived by prey-
ing upon other wild life. This modern
characteristic of certain dogs may be but
the reversion to that old wild impulse.
Even of man it has been said, “The sup-
pressed savage in him is ever breaking
his prison bars.”

To come upon sheep, mangled, drag-
ging their entrails across the pastures, to
die in quiet misery, or to ﬁnd in some
lonely spot deer with their fawns torn to
pieces, dying or killed by dogs, quite
naturally with some people causes the
denunciation of all dogs. Last year in
Massachusetts, the State paid farmers,
poultrymen and others, who had suffered
losses from roving dogs, $26,000.

The laws of Massachusetts permit any-
one to kill on sight any dog caught chas-
ing, worrying, destroying cattle, sheep,
swine, poultry, but offer no protection
for such wild life as a deer. For eleven
months the deer is protected from the
hunter and then, having become more or
less fearless, suddenly becomes a victim
of the man with the gun. Here in Massa-
chusetts the record of the slaughter of
deer for the last open deer season was
three thousand, but how many more were
killed and never reported, no one will
ever know.

Admitting that his statement was
doubtless exaggerated, an ofﬁcial of the

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Feb. 1941

New Waiting Room Keeps Dogs Apart

 

room at the Angell Memorial Ani-

mal Hospital, designed to keep the
patients from coming in contact with
each other while waiting for treatment
with their owners.

To avoid contact among the various
patients brought to the Hospital, especi-
ally when danger of infection might
occur, ofﬁcials of the Hospital have in-
stalled a number of separate booths in
the reception room to insure better be-
havior of the pets as they await treat-
ment.

The booths are part of a program of
alterations in progress for the past year

THIS is a view of the new waiting

at the Hospital designed to make the
Boston institution the last word in efﬁ-
ciency of equipment and in sanitary
arrangements. - -

Heretofore, dogs of all sizes and breeds
were to be found in the waiting room in
close proximity, with the result that
often there were disturbances with one
another.

Under the new arrangement the owner
and his pet occupy a deep booth which,
to the dog at least, shuts off the View of
his neighbors and makes contact impos-
sible. A special exit completes the iso-
lation of the pet waiting for treatment
and returning from it.

 

Fish and Game Commission has said that
he believed as many deer were killed by
dogs as by hunters. This destruction of
deer has aroused a public opinion that
demands that something shall be done to
prevent the annual massacre of these
beautiful creatures.

A meeting was held last month at the
State House by representatives of the
cattle, sheep and poultry dealers of the
Commonwealth, and also by representa-
tives of the Massachusetts Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals and
the Animal Rescue League of Boston.
The hope is that ultimately some legisla—
tion may be secured whereby our deer
may be protected from our roving, deer-
chasing dogs.

The failure of local dog ofﬁcers to ful-
ﬁl the duties of their ofﬁce is undoubtedly
responsible for a large part of this
destruction of our deer. There are some-
where in the neighborhood of 200,000
dogs in the State that are licensed and
as many more that are unlicensed; these

latter are doubtless the ones furnishing
the most of the destructive ones. The
local dog ofﬁcer, so often appointed mere-
ly through politics, is more or less of a
joke in his community. Men are often
given that ofﬁce who have no ﬁtness for
it, no time to give to it, and pay no atten—
tion to the work that should be done.
At the meeting referred to above, a
resolution was passed that the chairman
send letters to all the State granges, to
all the conservation chairmen, and to
wardens, calling their attention to this
serious affair of the destructive dog, and
also ultimately to all members of hunt
clubs and clubs having to do with farm
animals and dogs, and to a large number
of the members of the humane societies
of the communities. Ultimately such leg-
islation as is desired will be formulated.

A bill will be introduced in the Massa-
chusetts legislature to make the Chicka-
dee the ofﬁcial state bird. It won 33,380
votes in a recent poll.

 




Page .720

The Woodchuck

Leslie Clare Manchester

”Heigh-ho! The clovers are red, wine-red;
The breezes soft with rain!

l’ve left the dusk of a winter bed

To live in the light again!

The brook has purled to a waking song
And flowed to the rim of the sea;

It, too, has slept and dreamed for long;

It, too, is awake and free!

”A curl of smoke on the chimney-top

In the early hours of the day;

A lone, lone road where the blue hills drop
To the distance far away!

I call my brood from the drowsy den
Where the hours of night are spent;

I trail them through the summer glen
Whose boughs with bloom are bent!"

Featuring Birds and Animals
on Flags

ALETHA M. BONNER

Historic Prelude: “Resolved, That the ﬂag of the
thirteen United States be thirteen stripes, alternate
red and white; that the union be thirteen stars, white
in a blue ﬁeld . . . ”

LAG DAY observers are reminded of

the speciﬁcations for the American
ﬂag, as set forth by Continental Con—
gress in the early history—making days
of the nation.

With the entrance of a new state into
the Union, a corresponding star found
its place on the flag, and today a con-
stellation of forty—eight hold honored
place on the ﬁeld of blue.

While bird and animal emblems were
not included in the ofﬁcial pattern. of the
Stars and Stripes, yet these faithful
friends and servants of the nation have
been given emblematic showing on a
score or more of the ﬂags of individual
states, and are likewise represented in
the various designs that go to make up
the ofﬁcial seals of the United States
government.

It was on May 1, 1887, that the Post-
master General issued an order that
“The Seal of the Post Ofﬁce shall . . . be
a post-horse galloping at full speed, with
mail bags and rider,” and such is the
present seal, which continues to pay
tribute to the horse.

The animal is further honored by
Alaska—a sturdy team of horses appear-
ing on the ﬂag-surface of our neighbor
to the north. The state ﬂag of Nevada
also features a work—team; and the ban-
ner of Kansas pictures a horse-drawn
plow, together with a wagon-train and a
herd of buffalo, pursued by two Indians
on horseback.

The stalwart buffalo receives attention
on Wyoming’s ﬂag, and again, this ani-
mal, with head and body in left position,
standing on a prairie, with the rising
sun and mountains in the background,

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

are certain of the emblems belonging to
the seal of the Interior Department.

Idaho has a moose—crested escutcheon;
Oregon’s pennant, though varied in de—
sign, presents an elk, with branching
antlers, as one of the outstanding figures.
Pennsylvania’s ﬂag features a shield,
carrying an agricultural scene, while two
harnessed horses, rampant, support the
shield, and an eagle stretches forth its
wings over the device.

The American Eagle is a predominat-
ing ﬁgure in national insignia, the popu—
lar bird appearing not only on the Great
Seal of the United States, but on the
seals of the Departments of State, of
Justice, the Navy, Commerce, and Labor.

The monarch of the air is likewise
well represented in the state pennantry
of New York, Kentucky, Illinois, Iowa,
North Dakota and Oklahoma, as all have
the bird emblazoned on the fundamental
portions of their respective ﬂags. Utah
and Missouri group the eagle w1th other
signiﬁcant emblems: the ﬁrst-named
state ﬂag being a shield bearing a bee—
hive (denoting industry), surmounted
by the eagle with outstretched wings:
while the bird and two bears (symbols
of strength) have place on the last—
named pennant. California adopted what
is popularly known in history as “The
Bear Flag.” Such a banner dates from
the days of the pioneer, and depicts upon
its surface one of the large bears of
that early time—the California grizzly.

Another of the old ofﬁcial banners in
America is the ﬂag of Louisiana. It pic—
tures a pelican feeding its young. Such
became the unofﬁcial ﬂag about the time
of the War of 1812, with the date of its
legal adoption coming a century later
(1912).

A sea lion, the animal bearing a hilted
sword in the right paw, appears on the
ensign of the Philippine Islands. Porto
Rico presents, on a green circular ﬁeld,
a lamb, lying in repose upon a red—bound
book, and surrounding this unique set—
ting are crowned lions, rampant.

Flags of ancient days and ﬂags of for-
eign lands have found place in their folds
for birds and animals, and we honor
such insignia all the more for thus pay—
ing tribute to these noble members of
the animal kingdom.

June, 1941

Liberal Annuity Rates

Both of our Societies offer you semi-
annually during your lifetime a fixed income
on the sum given. Depending upon your age
at the time of the gift, the rate varies from
41-1/2 % to 9% per annum, beginning at age 45.

ADVANTAGES

No coupons to clip, no papers to sign and
mail. You simply receive your checks at
stated intervals—that’s all there is to it.

Annuity agreements are frequently used to
provide for the future years of a loved one
whose present income is temporary or in-
sufficient.

It is no experiment,
There is no anxiety,
No fluctuations in rate‘ of income,
No waste of your estate by a will
contest.

>l< it 96 >l< ~36

Persons of comparatively small means
may, by this arrangement, obtain a better
income for life than could be had with equal
safety by the usual methods of investment,
while avoiding the risks and waste of a will
contest and ultimately promoting the cause
of unfortunate animals.

The management of our invested funds is
a guarantee of the security of these Life
Annuities.

The Massachusetts 5. P. C. A., or the
American Humane Education Society, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston, will be glad to
furnish further details.

 

 

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the first Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
(‘ruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood.
Massachusetts. Boston Office; 180 Longwood Av-
enue. Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS

One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of

the world.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the office en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN
THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. 1’. C. A.
Active Life $100100 Active Annual $10 00
Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00
Sustaining Life 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
A. PO‘LLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
3oston.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

our Society is “The Massachusetts Society

FORM or BEQUEST

of .......... dollars, (or, if other prOperty,

 

In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of

Cruelty to Animals"; that it is the second incorporated (March, 1868)
Soc1e.ty for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country, and
that it has no connection with any other similar Society.

Any . bequest especially intended for the benefit of the Angell
Memorial Animal Hospital, should, nevertheless, be made to the Massa-
chusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals “for the use
of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital,” as the Hospital is not incor-
porated but is the property of that Society and is conducted by it.

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals (or to The American Humane Education Society), the sum

for the Prevention of

describe the property).

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 150

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the first Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Office: 180 Longwood Av-
enue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS II. ROWL'EY, President

GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

 

 

 

 

 

AUGUST, 1941

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS, to take orders for Our Dumb .Ammals,
are wanted everywhere. Liberal commlssmns are
offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about 300 words, are sohcnted. We
do not wish to consider prose manuscripts longer
than 500 words nor verse in excess of twenty-four
lines. The shorter the better. All manuscriptsshould
be typewritten and an addressed envelope with full
return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

Our Work in Bristol County

HE new ambulance shown on page

156 tells of enlarging our work
in Bristol County. For a good many
years we were operating in and about
Taunton through the organization
known as the Animal Welfare Workers,
of which Mrs. Howard F. Woodward
was president. The sum of $1,200 a year
was contributed, making it possible for
the Animal Welfare Workers to respond
to calls for complaints and to pick up
lost, stray and unwanted or injured
small animals, either ﬁnding homes for
them or, where necessary, humanely put-
ting them to sleep.

A few years ago the Society opened
new and attractive headquarters at At-
tleboro, in charge of Charles E. Brown
as agent. Mr. Brown answered all com-
plaints for cruelty and calls for such ani-
mals as had been largely taken care of
at Taunton. In connection also with the
Attleboro headquarters we opened a
Clinic to which animals were brought
two evenings a week, the number treated
running all the way from sixty to a hun-
dred a month.

The ﬁrst of July our new arrange-
ment went into effect. The new ambu-
lance which has been provided the Attle-
boro Shelter is to take care of Attle-
boro, Taunton and the adjoining cities
and towns. Complaints of cruelty to be
investigated and requests for removing
injured, unwanted, lost or suffering
animals will now be made by telephon-
ing Attleboro 841 and, for Taunton,
Enterprise 3055. All such calls will have
the charges reversed, the Society taking
care of them.

The Animal Welfare Workers of
Taunton, under Mrs. Woodward’s direc-
tion, will continue as an independent or-
ganization and not under the direction
or supervision of The Mass. S. P. C. A.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

“The Birds of God”

HE New York Times Magazine gives

us some interesting facts about birds
that once were so much more common in
our homes than they are today, particu-
larly the canaries, and the birds that are
being sought to take their place behind
the tiny bars that, say what we will of
it, make the cage a prison.

Not one canary has crossed the At-
lantic since February, 1940, and the
United States normally imports 175,000
Harz Mountain singers every year. Ca-
naries live for only about eight years, and
the shortage will very soon become acute.

In 1939, despite the beginning of the
war, 115,000 canaries from abroad, plus
the 200,000 raised by Americans, were
brought up by the public, Domestic
breeders have stepped up production at
the rate of 50,000 a year. The story is
that it has been 400 years since the ﬁrst
musical little brown bird canary was
captured and brought over to Italy from
the native island. Since then his breed
has hopped about in cages all over Eu-
rope and America, and time has only im-
proved his song. After some rather nec-
romantic selective breeding, his brown
feathers have turned an agreeable lemon
yellow.

Bird breeders are seeking some sort
of bird that can take the canary’s place.
Apparently there are, and always will
be, a multitude of people who will want
to keep some of these birds of beautiful
song and plumage in the cages of their
homes. At least this much must be said:
Whoever denies of the bird its God—given
liberty owes it the utmost that lov-
ing attention and care can give it.

Writing and Books

HAT a wonderful day it was far

back in the past when someone in-
vented writing, or what ultimately led
to what we think of as writing. How
without writing could all the wisdom of
the world’s wisest, all the songs of its
poets, all the “glory that was Greece and
the grandeur that was Rome” have been
preserved for us?

What a day when in 1454 a printing
press began to make possible the books
of the world, and of all the books that
ﬁll the libraries of mankind those ﬁrst
forty or forty-ﬁve Books of the Bible
that appeared two or three years later
are the most valuable today. So rare
are they that the one in our Library at
Washington cost the Government 60,000
English pounds. Today a copy of the
Bible, or parts of it, in almost some-
thing like 1,000 languages, can be had
almost for the asking.

Our readers are urged to clip from
“Our Dumb Animals” various articles
and request local editors to republish.

Aug. 191,1

Robert L. Dyson

FOR forty—one years Robert L. Dyson
served the Massachusetts Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals as
its representative and agent in Worces—
ter. Widely known throughout the city
and the entire county as a fearless,
faithful servant of the Society, he won
the conﬁdence and the respect of all who
knew him.

Taken quite suddenly ill some weeks
ago, he went to Canada hoping for a
possible recovery. His death, however,
occurred July 4th and he was buried the
7th in the city where he, as well as his
father, had been for two or more gen-
erations known and honored as officers
of this State. The Society held him in
great esteem and his loss will be seri-
ously felt.

“I Love My Cattle”

The picture below is that of a $17,000
Guernsey bull from the Quail Roost
Farm, Durham, North Carolina, where
there are 260 Guernsey cattle. These
cattle are under the management of a
Mr. McAdams, who says, “I know every
one of my cattle by name, and I love
them as I love my own children.”

 

“MAXIMILIAN IDEAL”

If only all the cattle on the farms of
the world were under such management
and care.

The picture comes to us from one of
our representatives, Mr. F. Rivers Barn-
well, who visited the Farm.

Endowed stalls and kennels are
needed in the Angell Memorial Animal
Hospital. Payments of thirty-ﬁve dol-
lars for a kennel or seventy-ﬁve dollars
for a stall will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name. For terms
of permanent endowment of free stalls
and kennels, address the Treasurer.

 




Page 60

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

89 Washington Street

 

 

 

 

u “M—«W‘u‘ﬁ—um‘i

Deliveries of fresh beef meals for dogs in Greater Boston, also

Goff Cubed Beef and Goff Cubed Lamb

Canine Catering Company of Mass., Inc,

Telephone, LONgwood T3130

Brookline, Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

 

COMPLIMENTS OF

JOHN H. SHEA CO.

Hay - Grain

LAWRENCE, MASS.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Monarch Printing Co.

25 ARCH STREET, BOSTON
Telephone, LlBerty 9187

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

J. G. WAXMAN CO.
:MANUFACTURERs.AGENTs

1160 Tremont St., Boston, Mass.
Telephone, HlGhlands 0510

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

JAMES A. COTTER CO.

Engineers and Contractors for

P L U M B I N G
334 SHAWMUT AVENUE
BOSTON

JAMES A. COTTER, President

 

 

 

 

 

 

Paul E. Dutelle & Co., Inc.

ROOFERS

153 PEARL STREET
NEWTON, MASS.

Telephone, LASell 7282

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE TEXAS COMPANY
Statler Building

Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 

P. I. PERKINS CO.

Mechanical Equipment

376 DORCHESTER AVENUE
BOSTON, MASS.

Telephone, SOUth Boston 4660

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘\\,
Robert Burlen & Son
BOOKBINDERS
301 Congress St., Boston, Mass.
\\\\"\
Buzzell Associates

ACCOUNTANTS
258 Elm St., W. Somerville, Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

Cruelty to Animals"; that it is the second inc

of the Angel] Memorial Animal Hospital,” as

 

 

I give to The Massachusetts Society for t

 

o .......... dollars, (or, if other prope

 

In malting you: will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of
our Socxety is The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of

Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in

Memorial Animal Hospital, should, nevertheless, be made to the Massa-
chusetts Socxety for the Prevention of Cruelty t

porated but is the property of that Society and is conducted by it.
FORM OF BEQUEST

ft; Animals (or to The American Humane Education Society)

rty, describe the property)-
\

Mar.194]

Liberal Annuity Rates

Both of our Societies offer you semi-
annually during your lifetime a fixed income
on the sum given. Depending upon your age
at the time of the gift, the rate varies from
4% % to 9% per annum, beginning at age 45.

ADVANTAGES

No coupons to clip, no papers to sign and
mail. You simply receive your checks at
stated intervals—that’s all there is to it.

Annuity agreements are frequently used to
provide for the future years of a loved one
whose present income is temporary or in-
sufficient.

It is no experiment,
There is no anxiety,
No fluctuations in rate of income,
No waste of your estate by a will
contest.
‘39 '35 * 31¢ *

Persons of comparatively small means
may, by this arrangement, obtain a better
income for life than could be had with equal
safety by the usual methods of investment,
while avoiding the risks and waste of a will
contest and ultimately promoting the cause
of unfortunate animals.

The management of our invested funds is
a guarantee of the security of these Life
Annuities.

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A., or the
American Humane Education Society, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston, will be glad to
furnish further details.

 

 

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the first Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention or
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, lN‘orwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Office: 180 Longwood Av-
enue. Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS

One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of

the world.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the ofﬁce en-
title the sender to membership in either of our tWO
Societies.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN
THE AlVIERICAN HUIVIANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. I". C. A.
Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00
Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 500
Sustaining Life 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
A. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor, 180

w Longwood Avenue, BOStOH-

 

orporated (March, 1868)
the country, and

e beneﬁt of the Angell

0 Animals “for the use
the Hospital is not incor-

 

he Prevention of Cruelty
, the sum

 

 

 




 

Jan. 1941

To an English Bulldog
Ruth de Bedts

The loose dewlap and overhanging iowl,

.A forehead furrowed to perpetual scowl,
Sticking out your long pink tongue at me
Pleading to lay your head upon my knee.
0, some would say that my besilkened lap
Is not the place to take a bulldog nap,

.But secretly I must confess it’s so:

I haven’t heart nor will tovtell you no!

The pleasure's mutual, and if I touch

Your velvet ear caressingly it’s much

Too much of ecstasy to bear for one

Who sees in me his world, his heaven, his sun.

Miss Hennessey’s Proposal
LAURA E. THOMPSON

ISS HENNESSEY ran down the
steps to meet Bob as he was pass-
ing her house.

“Come on in and have some dinner,”
she said in a casual way as though she
had known him for a long time.

Bob was surprised but he accepted
eagerly. He was down on his luck and
his friends were few. Even in his pros-
perous days women had shown little
interest in him. Perhaps his long nose
and coarse reddish hair repelled them.

Miss Hennessey and Bob often passed
each other on the street and recently she
had spoken when they met. He felt sure
she. liked him. As for Bob, he had never
been so strongly attracted by any woman.
’The fact that she was neither young nor
good looking made no diffrence to him.
He looked at her with adoring eyes. Her
grizzled hair was a halo and her angular
form divine.

Once inside the house, Bob was over-
come with embarrassment; at best he
was a homely fellow and now he was just
a vagrant, unable to keep himself neat
and clean. He was hungry for affection
and fearful of losing the little he had
won.

After dinner Miss Hennessey led the
way to the living room and talked to Bob
in her friendly way. He no longer felt
himself an outcast but he was uneasy
and when the hall clock struck ten he
rose to leave.

“Don’t let my noisy clock frighten you
away,” Miss Hennessey said, “you might
as well stay all night.” Ignoring Bob’s
questioning look, she continued, “I know
you are dead tired; you may sleep here
on the couch.”

Bob had been sleeping in the park and
a comfortable bed was luxury to him. He
slept soundly till about four o’clock when
he was wakened by footsteps on the ve-
randa. He sprang up and ran to the front
door but the intruder had left. There was
a sound above him, then Miss Hennessey
came down the stairs carrying a ﬂash-
light.

“Bob,” she cried. “You’re a darling!

OUR DUMB

“WIMPY,” OF MacDONALD’S HOTEL,
CAPE NORTH, N. S.

Wimpy meets all the tourist cars and follows his
mistress when she escorts her guests to their cabins.
He instantly becomes the friend and pet of all who have
occasion to stop at this popular tourist home.

ANIMALS

 

Page ’7

not to be outdone, the lead-
ing landscape architects of-
fered their services without
any charge.

Up to now, the cemetery
has been carefully main—
tained by gifts, the en-
trance fees of one franc.
and the sale of plots. Strict
rules have been enforced,
for all visitors were warned
not to walk on the tombs,
pick the ﬂowers or commit
any other offense against
good taste. There, strang-
ers used to see moving
sights when whole families
came to bury some beloved
pet, with the children in
tears as they bore the small
casket to its last resting-
place.

Amid the lovely vista of
shaded walks and blooming
terraces the silent ho st
have this peaceful associa-
tion in common. Famous
dog heroes lie here, so do
the faithful canine friends
of great writers, and even
“Loulou,” the little red hen,
is honored by the inscribed
tribute of her heart-broken
Parisian adorer: “She was
my little companion. She
laid many eggs. I cry for
her.”

Visitors always pause be-
fore the tomb of “Barry,”
the heroic dog that rescued
forty people from the high

 

I need a pal like you. You may call this
home for the rest of your life, but please
don’t bark at the milkman.”

Bob wagged his tail in joyful accept-
ance.

Isle of Little Dogs

VINCENT EDWARDS

HE German war censors have shut

down tight on all news from Paris
nowadays. But old habitues of that once-
gay city will never erase from their
minds that wooded islet in the Seine,
“L’ile des petits chiens”———the “Isle of
Little Dogs”—where more than 25,000
friends of man lie buried. In a sadly
war-torn world it is to be hoped that the
invaders of “La Patric” have left this
memorial ground undisturbed.

It was in the year 1898 that all lovers
of animals, from the rich to the poorest,
started a subscription fund for an ani-
mal burial ground. Quick to co-operate,
Paris gave the donors this small island
which had once been a gathering place
for criminals. A famous architect, Eu-
gene Petit, designed the gateway, and,

mountain snows. For seven
years Barry faced the wild storms of the
French Alps, bringing word of lost trav-
elers to his masters, the St. Bernard
monks. But at last there came a night
when a stranger, mistaking the noble
dog’s intentions, struck him down With
an iron bar. Though mortally wounded,
Barry still crawled back to let the monks
know of the traveler’s plight. In grief-
stricken remorse, after his rescue, the
man helped to raise the monument to
Barry’s memory.

But here are other heroes, including
“Papillon” and “Turc,” two faithful
police dogs beside whose stone is a glass
case, containing all the medals they won
for rescuing drowning children, standing
off robbers and saving the Victims of
ﬁres. A cat is likewise honored for
meowing so loudly when gas fumes in-
vaded the trenches that she saved an out-
post of poilus. Along one avenue Victor
Hugo’s noble dog “Griff” is buried.
Under Marcel Leguay’s words sleeps an-
other staunch friend: “Mystico, my good
dog, with shaggy coat and vagabond air,
you will never know how much some one
has loved you.” Somehow, as one thinks

 




FEBRUARY 1941

OUR U MB

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY
FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY
TO ANIMALS g? THE AMERICAN
HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY -

 




 

 

 

Page 16

Lines to a Collie Dog
Belva Bancroft MacBride

You are silent now and still. Hushed is my
heart

Above the verdant mound that marks your
grave;

It matters not to others you are gone,

They could not know that you were fine and
brave.

To them you’re just another dog, I know;

But you are more than just a dog to me;

No friend of mine has ever measured up

To all your courage or your loyalty.

With poignant mem’ry, I recall the nights

We roamed together through the quiet
streets;

Your sturdy body, trembling with delight,

Your tail, a joyous wave of bragging beats.

How many times, with impish artifice,

You challenged me to join :you in your play,-

And while I rested from our merry romp,

You found a precious bone to store away.

Now you are gone. No wild excited bark

Will answer to my call of soft commanding,

No ponderous paw be proffered me again

In deep and silent, canine understanding.

Father Tibesar, Friend to
Wild Life

KATHLEEN BLAKE

P in Rollingstone, Minnesota, you

will ﬁnd a priest, tall, kindly, gentle,
who has so endeared himself to the wild
animals about that it is said the wild
geese and ducks refuse to desert him to
ﬂy north in spring or south in fall.
Father Tibesar has built his own game
refuge. It consists of eight acres on the
edge of town. For twelve years or more
he’s been collecting its residents.

If you were a stranger in this south—
ern Minnesota town you might receive
rather a shock, running into a herd of
fourteen deer, for instance, just beyond
the village. They probably wouldn’t run
away from you. They are Father Tibe-
sar’s pets, so used to coming at his call
for their treat of apples and oats that
they have completely forgotten that man
is something to be feared.

Not far from the Rollingstone Catholic
church you will ﬁnd the collection of
shelters, enclosures and sheds that house
the rest of Father Tibesar’s charges.
There are two raccoons, one an albino
’coon the priest bought from a neighbor-
ing game breeder. The second raccoon
had to be secured as a mate. They are
very tame and come when he calls them
to eat from his hand. The white ’coon
has the true albino pink eyes.

But most of the denizens of the sanctu—
ary are birds. There are over three
hundred of them. The pens shelter a
dozen kinds of pheasants. There are
goldens, Amhersts, -Mongolians, ring-
necks, the rare Swinehoe pheasant, and
the gorgeous Elliott’s pheasant. There

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

are exquisite green Java peafowl that
the game breeders are glad to buy for
thirty dollars a pair. There are albino
peacocks that will bring as much.

It is well that the pets are self—
supporting. For it costs the genial priest
more than a thousand dollars a year to
feed his menagerie, which he must make
up in the sale of rare specimens to zoos
and game breeders.

Perhaps your attention is called to a
splashing in the little pond. Stroll down
and you will ﬁnd Canadian honkers, the
rare Mandarin ducks, blue and green-
wing teals, mallards, blue and snow
geese, some Musc-ovy ducks, a pair of
swans, and also two rare specimens from
South America. The honkers are so un-
afraid that you may even lift them up.

The priest grew up near Heron Lake;
and that, he says, is where he learned to
know and love as friends the birds and
animals about him. Every bird and ani-
mal on his eight-acre sanctuary knows
him, and will come up to nudge or ﬂutter
greeting. But probably Father Tibesar’s
favorite is the little Japanese silkie hen,
which just now is playing mother to ﬁve
baby quail. He lets her have the freedom
of the yard, and if he forgets to let her
out in the morning, she is shrilly indig-
nant. Another Japanese silkie is nurse-
maid to two baby chukars. A clutch of
Java peafowl eggs was hatched out by a
turkey hen. She cares for the infants as
if they were hers.

Deer, peacock and quail wander at will
together. Everyone knows they are
Father Tibesar’s pets. Some natives
called him one day to come and get his
mallards who had settled on a farm
creek. And the farm Was twenty miles
away!

Loyal Dog Rewarded

It’s ﬁfty miles from Kahoka, Missouri,
to Quincy of that same state, but this
cannot measure the loyalty of a black
and tan dog that trailed the bus carry-
ing his master those ﬁfty miles.

The owner of the dog was surprised
and touched to ﬁnd that his faithful pet
had followed him to Quincy; but, as he
was on a trip into Indiana, and could not
take the dog with him, he visited the
police station and put his problem before
the ofﬁcers.

Chief J. A. Connery declared that the
dog’s loyalty should be rewarded with a
good home. So the story of the dog’s
faithfulness and the ﬁfty-mile chase to
be with his master was told on the
police department’s noon broadcast. In
less than half an hour after the story
was broadcast no less than a dozen per-
sons offered to give the loyal dog a good
home. E. A. FRANCIS

Humane Sunday, April 20; Be Kind to
Animals Week, April 21-26, 1941.

Jan. 1941

Get Ready for Winter Guests
HARRIET SMITH HAWLEY

LTHOUGH the summer birds are a

constant joy, it always seems to me
that I know the winter guests a little
more intimately. Perhaps this is because
day after day I watch the woodpeckers,
nuthatches, tree sparrows, juncos, blue—
jays and chickadees at such close range
that I become acquainted with their
every mood. But it is the unusual guest
that makes winter feeding an adventure
in unexpected possibilities. For almost
every winter there comes the unusual

 

 

ept

RED-BREASTED NUTIIATCHES

visitor. An arrival that will hie the bird-
lover to the telephone to call the neigh-
bors in to see.

Three years ago it was the little red—
breasted nuthatches that appeared on
the second of January and evidently lik-
ing our suet and seeds as well as the
many pines and spruces about the lawn,
decided to spend the winter with us. And
a joyous addition they were. Active,
alert, making the seeds disappear or pry-
ing up, in their search for grubs, a
shower of bark from the old elms, they
added zest to a cold winter.

Also during this same season, arrived
January eleventh, just as the morning
sun broke through after a heavy clinging
snow-storm, a: bird so strange in its per-
formance that I immediately rushed for
my glasses in order to properly place
this winged stranger. A handsome in-
truder with a bronzy-yellow breast, a
.bronzy-yellow rump and distinctive white
wing patches. Bossy by nature, I noted
too, as he drove off the other birds from
the feeding boards. But it was not until
I noticed the curious bill with which in

 




 

 

Page 10

Our Dumb "Animals

Published on the first Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Office: 180 Longwood Ave-
nue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLE'Y, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor ,
WILLIAM M. MO'RRILL, Assistant

 

JANUARY, 1941

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS, to take orders for Our Dumb Animals, are
wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or Without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words, are solic-
ited. We do not Wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 500 words nor verse in excess of twenty-
four lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

The cost of the last war—the Great
War—1914—1918—would have paid the
expenses of our Government from 1791
to 1914—one hundred and twenty-three
years. One million dollars an hour for
more than two years.

Dr. Harris, who for many years was
Commissioner of Education in the
United States, made the following state-
ment before a large body of teachers:

“If a boy is cruel, he must be educated
out of his cruelty; if not, he will become
a bad citizen, and eighty per cent of that
class, sooner or later, will be supported
by the nation as criminals. It is less
expensive to educate in humanity than
support as criminals later in life.”

In the report of the United States Fish
and Wild Life Service, we are told that
in 1940 it is estimated that there are
somewhere in the neighborhood of 65,-
000,000 migratory water-fowl on this
continent—that this indicates an in-
crease of about 15 per cent in the water-
fowl population since 1939, though the
population is still far below that of
twenty years ago when there were prob—

ably twice as many migratory water-
fowl.

Kensington Gardens, London, where
many dogs are exercised, has been se-
lected by the Royal S. P. C. A. and the
National Canine Defence League for the
ﬁrst animal refuge. The two societies
will jointly bear the expense of the erec-
tion of this refuge, to hold thirty-six
dogs. If the experiment is a success it
will be extended to other localities. These
shelters will be used for dogs, while the
owners may utilize the public shelters
where dogs are not admitted.

OUR DUJIIB ANIMALS

Cruelty in the Movies

LETTER appeared recently in the

Boston Daily Record severely criti-
cizing the moving-picture producers for
the cruelties constantly appearing in the
pictures, and stating that if the societies
for the prevention of cruelty to animals
were less interested in securing money
to carry on their work and more inter-
ested in preventing cruelty, this would
be stopped.

We wrote a reply, insisting that the
greater part of what- had been done to
prevent such cruelties had been accomp-
lished by the humane societies of the
country, and that they were far less than
they used to be. A letter appeared soon
after in the Record, purporting to be
written by Mr. Hearst himself, in which
he cited such cases as “horses’ being hog—
tied and tripped head over heels.”

Mr. Richard C. Craven, representative
of the American Humane Association,
permanently in California to deal with
this matter of cruelties in the moving—
pictures, writes Dr. Rowley as follows:
“This was true up to a short time ago,
but the better companies have given it
up at my request. Among the companies
that have ceased using this device
(known as the Running W) are Para-
mount, Metro—Goldwyn-Mayer, Columbia,
Universal, Warner Brothers, Republic,
Monogram, Harry Sherman Productions,
and some others, while I doubt if any
studio will actually use it, lest such act
should lead to a campaign against the
studio, with a possibility also of the pic-
ture’s being banned in England by the
British Board of Film Censors. Yet,
until I came here, the Running W re--
ceived the approval of humane ofﬁcers ( ‘3)
who were employed by the motion-picture
compames.”

He further says, “N 0 one knows better
than you that every improvement in ani-
mal conditions has been forced by hu-
mane sentiment fostered by and ex-
pressed through our societies.”

A Word to the Lawmakers

“The bear is the most harmless ani-
mal in the wood,” says a Maine game
warden. “He sleeps all winter and lives
on roots and berries in the summer—
those of them. that escape the trapper.
I have never heard that a bear ever
killed a human being. A bear has a
gentle, forgiving disposition. Bear hunt-
ing and trapping furnish the excuse for
a certain class of men to be in the woods
with traps and guns when all other game
is protected. It affords an excuse to cover
up all the other lawless killing. I have
stood up for the bear and preached for
his protection for ten years and, while I
do not know whether I have made any
impression on the bear, I am pretty sure
I have made none on the lawmakers.”

Jan. 1941

Killing by the Thousands

HE Biological Survey, at present

under the direction of the Depart-
ment of the Interior, according to the
last published report, during the ﬁscal
years from 1934 to 1938, for what is
known as “Predator and Rodent Con-
trol,” has spent of the taxpayers’ money,
$11,815,229.

Chieﬂy through the western states vast
quantities of poisons have been scattered,
professedly to relieve the cattle- and
sheep-raisers and farmers in general
from such wild animals as coyotes,
wolves, bobcats, lynxes, bears and moun-
tain lions. In the attempt to control the
rodent evils, the treatment of 29,204,282
acres infested with prairie dogs, ground
squirrels, pocket gophers, jack rabbits,
porcupines, ﬁeld mice, cotton rats, kan-
garoo rats and wvoodchucks, was given.

The Survey also admits spending
$3,600,923 for destroying our native ani-
mals and birds, of which $1,125,800 ad-
mittedly came out of the Federal emer-
gency funds, extracted from the taxpayer
ostensibly to relieve human needs and
unemployment.

This destruction by violent poisons
and trapping has been going on for many
years. Undoubtedly in some cases many
of these animals have proved destructive
and should be exterminated, but who will
ever know the number of valuable birds
and certain other animals which mean-
while are also being exterminated?

A public protest against this reckless
killing of American fauna should be
made by every humanitarian in the land.
A letter to the Department of the Inte-
rior will at least do something to reduce
this great evil.

Going South

Men of all lands for generations have
wondered what that strange something is
in the heart of the bird which leads it
year by year to make its long ﬂights,
now to the South as the winter comes,
and then again to the North as spring
and summer return. Even the famous
Greek, Aristotle, dwelt upon this subject,
and even kept a record of these ﬂights
as he observed them, and it is said that
as late as 1703 a learned writer of that
period was of the opinion that these
birds ﬂew to the moon for the winter.
We question his being very learned.

Where they go and when they return
is now quite scientiﬁcally determined,
since banding of many of these migra-
tory birds has become a common practice.
Small birds, it is said, travel by night,
thus avoiding their larger bird enemies.
The great birds, like the waterfowl, make
the journeys by day, resting and feeding
by night.

Please remember-the Massachusetts
S. P. C. A. when making your will.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 1’70

Our Dumb "Animals

Published on the first Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Office: 180 Longwood Av-
enue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

 

SEPTEMBER, 1941

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about 300 words, are solicited. We
do not wish to consider prose manuscripts longer
than 500 words nor verse in excess of twenty-four
lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts should
be typewritten and an addressed envelope with full
return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

The Amrita Meeting

HE sixth annual summer conference

of the Baxendale Foundation for the
Advancement of Humane Education
took place at Amrita Island, Cataumet,
Massachusetts, July 21-August 16.

This conference, sponsored by the
Animal Rescue League Of Boston
through its president, Mr. Robert E.
Sellar, is more and more becoming wide-
ly known as a place where humane
workers, especially those interested in
humane education, gather from year to
year. There are children’s sessions and
animal sessions.

We notice among the speakers this
year, Mr. Sydney H. Coleman, president,
and Mr. Eric H. Hansen, general mana—
ger of the American Humane Associa-
tion, Dr. E. F. Schroeder, chief of the
staff Of the Angell Memorial Animal
Hospital, and many other widely-known
authorities in the ﬁelds Of humane work
and humane education.

The occasion is always a pleasant and
interesting one for humane workers and
also gives them the opportunity for a
restful vacation.

A Fine Service

We have just received a photograph
Of a gathering Of 2,000 soldiers, mem—
bers of the 77th Coast Guard Artillery,
assembled Sunday morning, July 27th,
at Atlantic Beach, South Carolina. The
picture represents Lieutenant H. A.
Robinson, Chaplain Of the 77th Coast
Artillery, introducing our representa-
tive, Seymour Carroll, who addressed the
soldiers assembled, with whom were
1,000 civilians.

He also had the pleasure Of speaking
to 1400 soldiers attending a singing and
religious service at Fort Jackson, South
Carolina, members Of the QMC Detach—
ment at the Fort. Every one Of the
soldiers took the humane pledge to be
kind tO all living creatures.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

The Coyote

HERE has been issued by the United

States Department of the Interior a
carefully—prepared and most informative
report on the “Food Habits Of the
Coyote.” This animal, so often called a
prairie wolf, has been the subject of
years Of careful study as to its habits,
the character of its food and the extent
of its damage to property value in the
states where it is found.

It is surprising to many Of us to learn
that within the past twelve years, for
the ﬁrst time so far as is known, the
coyote has made its appearance even as
far East as Maine, New York, New Jer-
sey, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia,
North Carolina, Mississippi, Alabama,
Georgia, South Carolina and Florida.
Most of us think of it as only a creature
Of the far West. The statement is made
that unless checked, it seems likely that
the coyote will become established in all
the Eastern states.

According to the summary and con-
clusions that we ﬁnd in this valuable
report, rabbits, rodents and carrion total
about 76 per cent of the entire food Of
the coyote; insects, vegetable matter and
miscellaneous mammals about 4 per cent.
That is, about 80 per cent represent that
part of the food Of the stomachs exam—
ined Of 8,263 coyotes, which may be con-
strued as not harmful to human inter-
ests. As a matter of fact, there is every
reason to conclude that the coyotes’ con—
sumption Of this four-ﬁfths of their diet
beneﬁts man.

On the other hand, however, the 20
per cent Of the coyotes’ food, composed
Of domestic stock and poultry, deer and
wild birds, includes items Of the utmost
importance to man, and it is in this part
of the diet that the serious economic im-
portance Of the coyote is revealed.

Comparatively few coyotes preyed on
calves, colts or pigs, which averaged less
than one per cent of the total food.
Poultry was more frequently taken, al-
though it tOO furnished less than one
per cent Of the total.

“Britain after the war will not toler-
ate the scourge Of unemployment.”
LLOYD GEORGE, City Temple, 1917

“Britain after the war will not toler-
ate . . . the scourge Of unemployment.”
ARTHUR GREENWOOD, Jan. 13, 1941

Thus do we fool ourselves!

—Um'ty

“Hera, the only divinity whom Zeus
is really afraid Of, whom he seldom sees
without feeling sore troubled because
she upbraideth him ever amid the im-
mortal gods.” In short, the most power—
ful divinity by whom any man’s life can
be swayed—his wife.

“Biography Of Great Philosophers”

Sept. 191,1

Bird-Banding

HE question Of bird-banding, hav-

ing been brought especially tO our
attention by a correspondent, we wrote
to Mr. C. Russell Mason, secretary-
treasurer of the Massachusetts Audu-
bon Society, with regard to the matter,
and this is what he writes us:

Dear Dr. Rowley:

I have your letter enclosing the one
from your correspondent regarding the
banding Of pigeons. We have nothing to
do with the banding Of pigeons, as this
is handled by the various carrier-pigeon
and racing-pigeon associations. The
bands in this case are used as a means
of identifying birds and returning them
to their proper owners when the birds
get Off their courses.

We do, however, co-operate with the
Fish and Wildlife Service in Washing-
ton in the banding of wild birds in an
endeavor to ﬁnd more information about
them. A great deal of important fact
has been discovered through banding
Operations, and I feel from doing a good
deal Of this work personally that no
harm results to the birds. Birds have
been caught eight or ten years after
the band has been applied, which shows
that they can live to a good age with
no harm from the band. The bands are
made Of certain sizes to ﬁt different
species, ﬁtting loosely on the tarsus.
Where the proper size bands cannot be
furnished or where injury to the bird
might result, as in the case of the hum-
ming-birds, no banding is done. The
birds do not mind the bands at all, in
fact I have had banded birds come right
back to the trap within the same day
that they were originally Ibanded, and
have had some birds repeat continuously
every day through a long season.

I do not know much about pigeon
banding, but in the case Of wild bird
banding, this work is only done under
license from both the Federal Fish and
Wildlife Service and the State Depart—
ment of Conservation, and such licenses
are extremely limited. They are fur-
nished only to people experienced in
handling birds and in identifying them
and only a limited number Of licenses
in any one locality are issued. I do not
know the exact number in the State Of
Massachusetts, but it is probably not
over 100, of which not over 30% of these
are active banders. I question very much
whether children are banding pigeons.
I think this is done entirely by owners
with experience in an attempt to keep
track Of their birds.

Sincerely yours,

(Signed) C. RUSSELL MASON
Secretary-Treasurer

Please remember the American Hu-
mane Education Society in your will.

1 — ‘1;\ Di.

 

 

 

 




 

 

umbAﬂQ 1177 Q /
”“ # a

0.1. ANGELL

m 1868.AND FOR FORTy.ONE

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,

Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,

Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
——COWPER

 
    
      
   

GLORY TO

  

GOD,
PEACE 9N EARTH, .
Kmonessﬁ'J'usrncs

AND MERCY To .
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

  
 

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

Entered as second-class matter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass, under the Act of March 3, 1879
Acceptance for mailing at special ,rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Boston Ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

Vol. 74

We doubt if ever Humane Week was
so widely celebrated and given so much
publicity through the press and the radio
as this present year. In spite of all the
serious trouble through which England
is passing, it was generally observed
there; also in Scotland and in other sec—
tions of the British Empire.

Years ago the beautiful wood duck
was among the most attractive features
in the scenery of our Massachusetts riv-
ers and ponds. The guns of the hunters
have almost wiped it out of existence. A
movement is now on foot in Washing-
ton to open the season again to the
shooting of it. Heaven grant that the
movement fails!

Fifty years ago in Milwaukee a statue
was erected to honor the memory of
Henry Bergh, the founder of the ﬁrst
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals in this new land. Half a
century later, during Kindness Week of
this year, that monument was rededi—
cated in the presence of some ten thou-
sand people who had gathered for the
ceremonies.

Congratulations to the Wisconsin Hu-
mane Society!

Marvelous things are being discov-
ered in the laboratories where the de-
votees of science toil. To them, and to
all who seek truth in its many forms
along the paths of science, the world
owes an unpayable debt. But what this
sad world needs today is more and more
the rediscovery of those fundamental
principles that constitute the real sub-
stance of the Christian faith—man’s
love for his fellow, the spirit of an un—
selﬁsh service, and the recognition of an
Eternal life and an Eternal love over
all and in all.

July, 1941

Doomed

ITLER? Is he winning? Can any-

one doubt it today? His forces move
as does a giant glacier, crushing and
grinding all before it. But Hitler is
doomed, was doomed before he ﬂew a
plane or ﬁred a gun or drove a tank.
Why dare we say this? Because we live
in a moral universe. Because all history
testiﬁes that no man has ever deﬁed the
moral order of this unseen world and
not been crushed before its inexorable
reality.

The quotation is old, it’s time-worn,
but it’s eternally true “The mills of
God grind slowly but they grind ex-
ceeding small.” Sooner or later between
these grinding millstones of righteous-
ness, justice, truth, the ruthless tyrant
must be caught. Triumphant Caesar fell
that memorable day, the Ides of March.
The seemingly invincible Napoleon, the
would-be master of Europe, died a pris—
oner in exile ’on the guarded island of

: St. Helena.

It may not be today. It may not be
tomorrow. Time alone tells the day, the
year, the century when earth’s real Vic-
torious hosts have won the battle they
had seemed to lose.

”They went forth to battle but they always
fell.
Their might was not the might of lifted
spears.
Over the battle-clamor came a spell
Of troubling music, and they fought not
well.
Their wreaths are willows and their tribute,
tears.
Their names are old, sad stories in men's
ears.
Yet they will scatter the red hordes of Hell,
Who went to battle forth and always fell."

No. 7

The Cost of Hunting

HE latest report that we have» at hand

tells us that there are seven million
citizens who, with guns, are stalking our
forests and swamps annually—the big-
gest army of hunters in the world, It is
said that the cost to each hunter is an
average of $45 a year, and for arms,
ammunition, clothing and equipment,
the annual national bill is $275,000,000.

If we are going to have gasless Sun-
days and be under the necessity of giv-
ing up not only some of life’s luxuries
but many of what. we have been accus-
tomed to think of as almost necessities,
this $275,000,000 for what is pretty
largely mere sport, to say nothing of the
animal suffering involved, might well be

.saved.

A National Gathering

The convention of the National Con-
gress of Parents and Teachers was held
in May in Boston, Massachusetts. Dele—
gates to the annual gathering of this
great organization came from far and
wide. Such topics as Good Homes, Sound
Health, Safety, Equalized Educational
Opportunity, Conservation of Natural
Resources and Human Values, Vocational
Adjustment, Constructive Leisure Time
Activities, Civic Responsibility, Active
Spiritual Faith, were discussed.

We are glad to state that through the
inﬂuence of our own humane worker,
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee of Georgia,
a delegate from the Parent—Teacher As-
sociation of that State, one of the topics
receiving attention was “That character-
building organizations be encouraged,”
and it was as a part of character-build-
ing that Humane Education was given a
place.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

M ay, 1941

A Needless Loss

T. Dwight Ladd

Only a kitten frozen with fright
At terrors it never has met before;
As a huge black monster springs through
the night,
With flaming eyes and a fearsome roar.

Only a meowing that no one hears,
A tiny impact that no one feels;
Only a tail-light that disappears,
But a life has fled with the whirling
wheels.

Only a stain on the broad white road,
A crumpled bundle of lifeless fur,
And a childish heart with a heavy load
Of grief for a playmate who’s gone from
her.

Only a father who now regrets
A kitchen door that was not shut tight;
Only a moment would save our pets
From death that strikes on the road by
night.

The Chinchinelli Family

This Month’s Frontispiece

Mr. Chinchinelli boasts a long line of
ancestors presumed to date back to the
Chinese conquest. In his London home
at Hampstead he has lived up to the
proud traditions of his line, and at shows
beaten all comers with three ﬁrst prizes
and now a championship; truly a record
to make the whiskers of any cat twirl
with pride. And in his domestic life he
has made no mesalliance, for his bright
green-eyed love shares ﬁrst prize honors,
too, and has presented him with the
heavenly twins seen in their illustrious
parents’ company.

 

“INFLATION”
Photograph by Lloyd G. Miller, Chicago

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 95

Strange Island of Cats

EWEN K. PATT'ERSON

ECENTLY guano—seekers discov—
Rered in the Indian Ocean, some 200

miles north-east of Mauritius, a
small, unnamed coral island teeming with
cats—countless hundreds of them of all
shapes, sizes and colors. Believed to be
descendants of a number of animals that
reached the uninhabited island from a
sailing ship wrecked on a near—by reef
80 years ago, the cats are now hostile to
humans; most of them live in burrows,
and they exist chieﬂy on ﬁsh, which they
catch by diving, and turtles, that are
attacked when they come ashore to lay
their eggs.

This is not the only cat colony of the
kind in the world; more remarkable is
the Island of Fishing Cats, in the South
Paciﬁc, which is probably the strangest
empire of cats on the globe. Situated near
Tahiti, the island has an extraordinary
history, which dates back nearly 100
years when two badly rat-infested sailing
ships were wrecked on a reef just off the
island.

Hundreds of rats swam to the island,
where they soon established themselves
and ﬂourished. Ultimately they became
such a serious pest that the natives liv-
ing there ﬁnally ﬂed from the place to
settle elsewhere, leaving the island to the
rats.

Thereafter the rats continued to multi-
ply with even more than usual fecundity,
for they were not troubled by any ene—
mies, and it appeared as if the island
would have to be left to the rodents for
all time.

Then an adventurous Frenchman ar-
rived at Tahiti, and when he heard that
the authorities were prepared to present
the island as a gift to anyone who could
sucessfully rid the
place of rats he de-
cided to attack the
rodents with cats!
He collected nearly
500 cats of all kinds
and released them
on the island. So
successful were they
in dealing with the.
rodents that in less
than three months
the Frenchman was
able to take up resi-
dence on the island,
where he started a
copra plantation and
poultry farm.

But he did not
stay there long. Al-
though the rats were
soon completely
eradicated by the
cats, the latter ulti-
mately became just

as serious a menace as the rodents were.
They bred freely, and soon the island
was swarming with thousands of cats.

When the rats were eaten out, of
course, food for the cats became scarce,
and, naturally enough, they turned their
attention to the Frenchman’s poultry
farm. It was impossible to keep the
hungry creatures away, and when all his
poultry had been stolen and devoured, the
Frenchman decided to abandon the island
and leave it to the cats.

That was over 50 years ago, and since
then the cats have remained in possession
of the island. No attempt has ever been
made to deprive them of their kingdom;
in fact, they are now so hostile to hu-
mans that the approach of a boat brings
scores of them down to the water’s edge.
where they stand spitting and snarling
deﬁance at would-be visitors.

Deprived of easy means of existence,
the cats have evolved methods of their
own for securing their food, which con-
sists chieﬂy of ﬁsh, crabs and turtles.
They have developed into good swimmers
and divers, and almost any day scores of
them can be seen, from passing boats,
lying on ledges of rock at the water’s
edge, waiting for ﬁsh and crabs to
appear. As soon as a cat sees a ﬁsh or
crab, it dives into the water like a ﬂash,
seizes the victim in its jaws, and then
swims ashore to devour the meal. During
the turtle-breeding season, in the sum-
mer months, the cats also take a heavy
toll of the female turtles as they come
ashore to lay their eggs.

In striking contrast to this unique
Island of Fishing Cats is another Paciﬁc
island where cats are considered so valu—
able as rat-killers that they are protected
by law. This is Pitcairn Island, one of
the laws of which provides that “if a cat
is killed without being positively detected
in killing fowls, however strong the sus—
picion may be, the person killing such
cat is obliged, as a penalty, to destroy
three hundred rats, whose tails must be
submitted for the inspection of the mag-
istrate, by way of proof that the penalty
has been paid.”

As a result of this unique law, Pitcairn
is a veritable paradise for cats; probably
nowhere else in the world do the animals
enjoy such freedom.

Kindness Pays

The great Boston humanitarian, Geo.
T. Angell, started his monthly magazine
devoted to kindness toward animals with
a circulation of 200,000 for its ﬁrst edi-
tion—and it hasn’t missed a single
month’s publication in the 73 years that
have ensued.

——Herald, Danvers, Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Feb. 1941

Radio and Humaneness

OG lovers all over the country must
have listened with very much inter-
est to the January ﬁrst broadcast of “Big
Town,” starring Edward G. Robinson.
This broadcast concerned the struggles
of a small boy to keep possession of a
dog that he had saved from inhuman
treatment at the hands of his master.
The dog, half starved and bearing an
ugly sore due to a heavy chain, touched
the heart of the boy. One day the heavy
block of wood attached to the chain be-
came wedged in a fence, causing the dog
to slowly choke, so that it was in danger
of dying. The boy saved the dog from
death and in gratitude the dog followed
the boy to his home. The owner of the
dog accused the boy of stealing the ani—
mal and insisted that the boy be sent to
a reform home.

How Edward G. Robinson defended
the boy’s cause in court and how he won
acquittal for him and permanent posses—
sion of the dog he loved, made a most
interesting broadcast. Edward G. Rob-
inson, his supporting cast, the sponsor of
this program, and all concerned in its
production deserve all praise for produc-
ing the type of broadcast that aids the
work of humane organizations in spread-
ing the doctrine of kindness to animals.

Let us hope that throughout the year
1941 other radio sponsors will try to in-
clude such types of broadcast for their
starring casts. J. C.

Answers to “Ten Famous
Horses”

1. Meg, in “Tam O’Shanter,” by Rob-
ert Burns.

2. Lightfoot, in “Peter Rugg,
Missing Man,” by William Austin.

3. Winnie, in “Lorna Doone,” by Rich-
ard Blackmore.

4. Black Beauty in “Black Beauty,” by
Anna Sewell.

4. Rosinante, in “Don Quixote,” by
Cervantes.

6. Silver Blaze, in “Memoirs of Sher-
lock Holmes,” by Conan Doyle.

7. Black Bess, in “Dick Turpin’s
Ride,” by Alfred Noyes.

8. Gunpowder, in “The Legend of
Sleepy Hollow,” by Washington Irving.

9. Pegasus, in “Parnassus on Wheels,”
by Morley.

10. Roland, in “How They Carried the
Good News from Ghent to Aix,” by
Robert Browning.

the

It may be grim comfort; but when you
are suffering from mosquito bites next
summer, you can give thanks to the birds
that you haven’t more. In the stomach
of just one night hawk were found 500
of these pests. Whippoorwills and swifts
also help to keep down these enemies of
ours by eating millions of them.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 35

Thomas Hardy: Poet Laureate of Animal Lovers
D A v 1 1) L o R D

ANY people know Thomas Hardy
Mas one of the greatest of English
poets, but few know him as the
poet who, I believe more than any other,
has shown the greatest love for dumb
creatures, the greatest understanding of
them, the greatest sympathy for their
weakness. For him, the dividing line be-
tween humankind and animal life is a
tenuous one indeed, and he sees all
living creatures as merged in a common
fellowship of mortality. This is the view
which, we can be sure, will some day be
adopted by the whole world, but until
that time comes men like Thomas Hardy
must continue to impart their higher
vision to others.
It is signiﬁcant that in one of his most
revealing poems about himself (“After-
wards”) he says:

If I pass in some nocturnal blackness,
mothy and warm,
When the hedgehog travels furtively
over the lawn,
One may say, “He strove that such inno—
cent creatures should come to no
harm . . . .

His View of hunting is expressed in
“The Puzzled Game-Birds”:

They are not those who used to feed us

When we were young—they cannot be—

These shapes that now bereave and bleed
us? . . .

He is haunted by the plight of birds in
winter, and he returns to the subject
over and over again in such poems as
“Birds at Winter Nightfall” and “The
Robin.” He is haunted too by the things
that men do to helpless birds, and this
feeling ﬁnds expression in poems like
“The Caged Thrush Freed and Home
Again,” . “The Blinded Bird,” “The
Caged Goldﬁnch,” and “The Bird-Catch-
er’s Boy.”

There is no phase of helpless animal
life that escapes his attention. “Bags of
Meat” is a heart-rending picture of cattle
led to the slaughter, and “A Sheep Fair”
tells how sheep are similarly butchered.
One of the outstanding impressions he
received from the .World War is pre-
sented in “Horses Aboard”——a picture of
horses on the way to the battle-ﬁeld. In
“Snow in the Suburbs” he gives as poign-
ant a picture of animal life in winter
as he ever penned:

The steps are a blanched slope,
Up which, with feeble hope,
A black cat comes, wide-eyed and thin . .

If Hardy found the life of innocent
creatures showing in everything that met
his gaze, he also found it present when
he searched for the ultimate meaning of
things. In “The Darkling Thrush,”
which has become a classic, he found an

innocent bird pointing the way to a
higher faith:
...That I could think there trembled
through
His happy good-night air
Some blessed Hope, whereof he knew
And I was unaware.
This sentiment ﬁnds its highest ex-
pression in the unforgetable poem, “Last

 

THOMAS HARDY

Words to a Dumb Friend,” which de—
scribes the feeling that all animal lovers
have known:

Strange it is this speechless thing,
Subject to our mastering,
Subject for his life and food

To our gift, and time, and mood;
Timid pensioner of us Powers,
His existence ruled by ours,
Should—by crossing at a breath
Into safe and shielded death,

By the merely taking hence

Of his insigniﬁcance—

Loom as largened toithe sense,
Shape as part, above man’s will,
Of the Imperturbable.

If Thomas Hardy had left no other
claim to immortality than these animal
poems, he would still be assured a high
place in the Valhalla of the poets. Animal
lovers should take him to their hearts,
for he is their true poet laureate, a man
who expresses in deathless verse their
highest ideals and aspirations.

Sympathy for England

From a contributor to Our Dumb Ani—
mals, whose home is in Bristol, England:

It is good to know that the welfare of
animals is being so well protected, by
yourselves and others, in the States. I
can assure you that animal lovers are not
keeping silent or remaining inactive
here, in spite of the stress and horror of
today. This city itself now lies largely
in ruins through enemy bombs; but our
people are keeping their hearts up. Any

'sign of sympathy from America is

greatly valued.

 




 

 

u mbA... J 0763/
Bf <9

0.1. ANGELL

m 1868.AND FOR FORW~0NE

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,

Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,

Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
—COWPER

   

GLORY TO
GOD,

PEACE. on EARTH,

AND Mencv 'r'o
Ev E. R Y L I v: N a
CREATURE.

 

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

Entered as second-class matter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass., under the Act of March 3, 1879
Acceptance for mailing at spec1al rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 1.3, 1919

Boston Ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

Vol. 74

April, 1941

No. 4

 

If, as an Englishman has said, this war
may be the last nail in the cofﬁn of
fox- and stag-hunting in England, many
animal lovers will ﬁnd something to be
grateful for as an outcome of this un-
speakable war.

Bombed and destroyed. This is what
happened to the ofﬁces of the Manches—
ter, England, Humane Education Society
a few weeks ago. Correspondence, ﬁles,
lists of members and friends and sub-
scribers to The Little Am’mals’ Friend.
Mr. Arthur Middleton, the secretary, has
opened a new ofﬁce and starts again.

Bombed too and wrecked were the
ofﬁces of the University of London Ani-
mal Welfare Society. Records of the So—
ciety fortunately were saved, having
been placed in safety. Work goes on from
the home of the secretary. The loss of
furniture, stocks of publications, sta-
tionery and other equipment greatly crip-
ples these two ﬁne Societies. To both
we extend our sympathy.

“The Great Meddler,” the moving-pic-
ture telling of Henry Bergh’s founding
of the American S. P. C. A., the ﬁrst of
its kind in this country, recalls anew the
fact that it was he who also was virtu-
ally the founder of the ﬁrst Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Children in
this or any other country.

The best seller—still the one Great
Book. Sales of the Bible and parts of it
in the United States, in 1939, amounted
to 5,500,000 copies; in 1940, to 8,000,000.
Reports for 1939, the last received, show
sales in the United States, Great Britain,
France, Belgium, Denmark, Holland,
Norway, Germany, of approximately
26,500,000 copies.

    

Our Human Nature

HAT a marvelous thing! What a

composition of almost innumerable
things—characteristics, traits, abilities,
faculties, dispositions, ideas, hopes,
fears, dreams, ambitions!

What glorious things it has accom-
plished! What names shine in its ﬁrma-
ment like stars of an unrivaled splendor!
Prophets, poets, law-givers, thinkers,
painters, sculptors, saints and saviors of
the race! The creature of a few brief
days on this little island of a boundless
universe has learned to read the story of
giant suns and systems that blaze their
way through space so distant that even
thought stands silent and wonders.

What music has been born in the soul
of our human nature—music that seems
too rare and beautiful to have come from
any realm save one above and beyond
this world of earth and air!

What discoveries have made night as
light as day, have annihilated space and
time till human lips open half way round
the globe and the voice is heard over
sea and land wherever a human ear may
be!

What deeds of mercy, kindness, love;
what loyalties to high ideals that neither
stake nor dungeon nor torturing rack
could break! No wonder it has been said
of man that he was made a little lower
than the angels!

If this were all the story! If this hu-
man nature, of which such radiant things
are said, had no other side! If now ris-
ing to Alpine peaks of character so noble
as to seem almost divine, it could not
also plunge so deep into the black val-
leys of inhuman cruelty, lust, hate, mur-
der, that one might think all goodness,
truth and beauty dead and buried for
time and eternity!

War—that crime of crimes that shows
no pity, as merciless to its victims as the

streams of burning lava that pour down
a volcano’s slopes. War—that triumphs
most where most it kills.

But think! For every criminal, ten
thousand times ten thousand and thou-
sands of thousands kindly, earnest, un-
selﬁsh souls are daily fulﬁlling life’s
lowly tasks, doing justly, loving mercy,
serving and sharing. For every worship-
per of war’s blood-stained god, millions
upon millions day and night crying out
for peace and never doubting that love
is mightier than hate. All these, many
of them living and dying unhonored and
unsung, a host no man can number—
these are the salt of the earth. These,
under the Living and Eternal God, are
our hope. These forbid despair.

A Legislative Bill We Must
Oppose

Is the horse with the set-up tail to be
shown again in Massachusetts? In 1934
we secured in this State a law making it
illegal to show at any exhibition of
horses, or at any horse show, a horse
whose tail had been cut so as to make it
possible to set it up at nearly a right
angle to the body, after September, 1934.
New York and Connecticut also have a
law against this cruel practice.

Now a bill has been introduced into
the State Legislature by certain horse—
men to annul this law, so far as to make
it legal for the next ﬁve years, to show
horses with tails so cut and set up.

After the cutting, the tail has to be
held up by certain mechanical devices
until the cords or tendons severed have
healed. It is the cruelty of the practice
that made it possible to secure such leg-
islation as we now have.

The Society must, of course, oppose
this bill and stand by the law it secured.
The law had the hearty endorsement of
the humane public.




 

 

w...“ .__

Page 4

mistaken for the Animal Rescue League
of Boston, another organization seeking
the welfare of animals, but the two are
distinct organizations.

We only say these things because it is
important that the public should know
what the actual facts are.

The Contagion of It

THER things spread from man to

man and house to house by infection
besides smallpox, diphtheria, measles and
scarlet fever. Pessimism, gloom, hopeless-
ness, despair, travel on their dreary ways
after much the same fashion. When half
the men you meet tell you the world is
on the down grade and will soon skid
around some fatal curve and go to smash,
that business is never going to pick up
and set the wheels of industry whirling
again, that morally we are sliding back
into night and darkness, you are quite
tempted to think they may be right and,
catching the germ of this painful disease,
go spreading it around among your
friends.

True it is that we must pay the price
of the most bankrupting war in history.
We must face many a dark and threat—
ening day. But just as men and nations
have pulled themselves together after
times of disaster and seeming ruin, so
we are going to again. Blessed be the
man who will not surrender his faith
either in God or his human kind, who
will spread hope and cheer and conﬁdence
among his fellows, overcoming by the
infection of his nobler spirit the pessi-
mism of the narrow-visioned and the
faithless.

Feeding Wild Life in Winter

H. E. WENTWORTH

THE boys were passing the bungalow
when she asked, “Where are you two
boys going?”

“0, just around the grove to get a
rabbit, squirrel, or something.”

“I know my grove is not posted,” she
replied, “and what you plan to do is not
illegal; but these timid creatures are all
my friends. I feed them through the late
fall and winter. I know that you would
not care to kill one of my pets just for
fun, and besides, the discharge of ﬁre-
arms in the grove might drive many of
them away. I love them all, and they are
such company for me when the winter
weather and deep snow arrive! Let me
call in the squirrels.”

There followed stories of each squirrel,
a cotton-tail rabbit, and even a garter
snake that had his retreat in a crevice
of the bungalow for two years, always
coming out when called.

The boys enjoyed the whole situation
hugely, and soon lost all interest in
shooting their neighbor’s “friends.” In

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

fact, no Middleton
sportsmannow
ever thinks of
hunting or trap-
p i n g i n M r s .
Webb’s pine grove,
which is known as
the sanctuary of
peace and quiet for
all wild life in the
neighborhood.

M r s . L a u r a
Webb, of Middle-
ton, Mass., is not
only a lover of na-
ture, but is also a
generous provider
for nature’s wild
life, both bird and
mammal. Her bun-
galow, situated in a
spacious pine grove,
is surrounded by
numerous bird-
boxes and houses,
ground burrows
and tree 11 e s t s,
making the whole
setting an ideal
spot for the pro-
tection and com-
fort of her grow-
ing colony of forest
friends.

Cotton-tails,
g r o u n d h o g s ,
skunks, birds, etc.,
all are welcome in
the grove at any
time. At present
M r s . W e b b has
nineteen gray
squirrels that will
ﬂock to the bunga-
low twice a day for
food at a signal
call. One big fellow
“Splitear,” has

the ordinary.

loose stamps.

Jan.1941

Unusual Photographs

For any “unusual photograph” of animals or birds which
may be accepted for publication in “Our Dumb Animals” we
offer a cash prize of one dollar.

By “unusual” we do not refer to degree of excellence but
to the unusual or odd grouping (as in the picture below) or
to some particular pose or arrangement that is quite out of

The picture must be original, never before published, and,
if accepted, become the property of this magazine.

Only photographs addressed to “Unusual Photographs,”
“Our Dumb Animals,” 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.,
will, be eligible for these prizes.

.No photographs will be returned unless accompanied by
a stamped and fully addressed return envelope. Do not send

 

TABBY MOTHERS THE SKUNKS AS WELL AS
HER OWN OFFSPRING

 

been coming regu-
larly for ﬁve years. He seems to be the
general manager of his “gang” and at
the approach of a strange dog will sound
the warning for all to scatter among the
tall pines.

More than three bushels of grain,
seeds, peanuts, etc., are fed to the birds
and squirrels during the late fall and
winter every year.

A big cat and a dog living at the bun-
galow have been taught never to annoy
the birds or animals in any way.

In regard to hunters, Mrs. Webb’s
account of meeting two young men with
guns shows her to be an adept in strategy
as well as in human nature.

Our readers are urged to clip from
“Our Dumb Animals” various articles
and request local editors to republish.
Such copies will be made good by us
upon application.

Hunting Song
Frances Angevine Gray

”Come," they said, ”let us hunt the deer.
Russet and gold are the woods this year.
High and cloudless the autumn sky.

Test the skill of your hand and eye."

But, oh, the wild things’ delicate grace
And the innocent look in the young deer’s
face!

"Come,” they said, "It’s a pheasant clay.
We’ll climb the steep hills over the bay.
The air is wine. It is royal fun

To tramp the meadows with dog and gun.”

But the wild, free spirit what can reclaim
Of the bird whose breast was flying flame?

Not to my taste such sport as this—
THERE IS TOO MUCH DEATH IN THE
WORLD AS IT IS!

 




 

 

 

Aug. 1941

" The Foundling
LHHan McCaHey

I heard a kitten crying in the rain,

lts plaintive voice awakened me from sleep.
l tried-to nestle down once more in vain
Bien'e’ath the covers soft and warm and deep.

“Please let me in," the small voice seemed
to say,

"Im cold and hungry and your house is
warm,

I’m tired and have come a weary way

And here I seek a refuge from the storm."

What could I do but rise, unbar my door,
And let it in and smooth its draggled fur,
Give it refreshment from my ample store
And listen to its happy grateful purr?

And ever since that rainy April day,
lts little feet have no desire to roam.
Dearly we love our gentle “Kitty Gray,"
A well—beloved companion of our home.

Can I Keep Bird and Cat?
L.E.EUBANKS

I HAVE read and heard many people

say that birds and cats cannot be kept
in the same household. The general
opinion is that any cat will catch birds
under any and all conditions. Even many
staunch defenders of the feline are quite
positive in the position that “it’s just
natural and nothing can be done about
it.”

Incidentally, that is somewhat illogi-
cal when said by a person who knows
dogs—especially if the speaker is partial
to cats as pets. Dogs are just as much
hunters as cats, but bird-dogs are taught
not to be sidetracked by a rabbit.

Admittedly, it’s natural for a cat to
catch birds; but since I have had three
cats that positively did not pay any more
than a passing attention to birds, I
know that something can be done about
it.

The dog trainer wants the pupil to
be young, and, similarly, you’ll have to
start with the cat as a kitten if you’re

 

A BOTTLE BABY ENJOYING HER MEAL

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

to succeed in greatly modi-
fying its hunting instinct.

A cat’s training will be of
little use unless the animal is
kept at home, under your
guidance. Hunger was the
original urge to hunt, and in
feeding your cat properly
you eliminate about three-
fourths of the hunting in—
stinct. Unless you can watch
the kitten, keep it where
there’s no possibility of
bird-catching, until its hab-
its of life are established.

When, under your obser-
vation, the kitten starts
stalking or shows particular
interest in a bird, slap him
lightly on the shoulder or
rump, with scolding words.
Get him interested in play—
things, but don’t let him
play with a cat that may be
a bird-catcher.

Your captive, pet bird is
supposed to be safe in its
cage. It will be if your cat
has been trained not to mo-
lest birds outside. But it is
important for the bird’s sake
to keep the cat away from
the cage, for birds, too, have
an instinct, a fear of cats
th a t amounts to torture

Page 157

 

HOUSEHOLD ARISTOCRAT

 

when the imprisoned crea-
ture sees a cat near its cage.

You can easily make your cat stay en-
tirely away from the bird cage—and
Without hurting the cat. Arrange a shelf
above the cage, put a big soft pillow on
it, and run a cord from the pillow’s cor-
ner to the opposite side of the room.
When the cat goes up to the bird cage,
quietly pull the cord so that the pillow
will fall on the cat or near him. It will
scare him half to death, and a few repeti-
tions will be sufﬁcient. One of my cats,
after that was repeated four times,
would cry and struggle if we pretended
to carry him to the cage. Your seeming
not to have anything to do with the pil-
low’s fall is important, as it adds confu—
sion and panic to the cat’s fear.

The catching, cap-
turing, and snaring
of the free children
of the wood and
w i l d and shutting
them up in cages
and pens to wear out
their lives in what
is nothing but a
prison for them, is
a form of cruelty to
animals that can
only be curbed by
p u b l i c disapprov-
al an d condemna-
tion.

The Yellow One

JESSIE MERLE FRANKLIN

HE yellow one” was a nondescript

gray kitten who came to our house
in the country several years ago. Early
one morning when I was out feeding our
numerous cats, I felt him rubbing against
my foot and looked down to notice him
for the ﬁrst time. Poor little starved,
maimed body! He was too weak to meow,
but there he was, rubbing, not ingratiat-
ingly, as you might expect a tramp to,
but rather fraternally, against my shoe.
And even after I had set out some warm
milk for him, he kept leaving his eating
to wobble over and demonstrate the
affection of his friendly little heart.

And his face! I have never seen such
a happy, trusting little face as he would
turn it up toward me.

Our own sleek fat cats spat at him
contemptuously at ﬁrst, but he showed
not the least bit of either fear or apology,
and long before his bony body had be-
gun to heal and fatten, he had won
everyone of them ever, even to old Marie
who had had innumerable litters and
was rather impatient of kittens in gen-
eral. I think they, too, must have sensed
the courage of his small stout heart that
no amount of cruelty, starvation, and
whatnot had been able to break or em-
bitter.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

Aug. 191,1 0 U R

       

""“\r.'.'mrrr'

   

v . '
4/.
. -({/J_//l/4udgluuAU.“ ’ufv,

Q ' \ .
\ T‘- §T .

(if \xi'z'icgffiﬁg‘ )%3§§K yd",
" 2 WWRO-tre
’ \ - i <‘ 'w' '._\-‘ I
we, .. ° )3“ .-.’...~.\
22/5), ':. { It “37:5; 31'3“,
1' /: : ‘ “III,

The Feathered Folk
NIXON WATERMAN

The wood/pecker always goes hopping head-ﬁrst
Whenever he’s climbing a tree,

Still, he blindly backs down, does this feathery clown,
With his tail where his head ought to be.

The brown-creeper hops to the loftiest limb,
But he must be afraid he would fall

Should he dare to depend on his claws to descend,
For he never hops downward at all. i

The nuthatch goes clambering up tree and down,
All over and under limbs, too,

And whenever he goes he still follows his nose,
As all prudent creatures should do.

How Many “T” Birds?
ALFRED I. TOOKE

Quite a number of birds have names beginning with
the letter T, such as tailorbird, trumpeter, etc. In the

DUMB

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

WZ >C-—1-—-
[TIE (DIV—l
I-i OFTZD—l
--C ZZSUITI
Z} (3)07?

 

 

 

l-<7< :0 I ozl

 

 

 

 

diagram you should be able to spell out at least fourteen
such bird names, starting at any T and moving one space
at a time in any direction you like.

Be sure that your pets do. not suffer for lack of, freSh
water during the hot weather.

AN IM ALS Page 159

[M

 
   
   

lull“

‘ \s'\\\<&\\\'\'\ii‘xf\‘§\<§§{{

 

lesl'lV
f/{

N
“l3”. .
“I .-‘
w. "-I '
,.( .,
, ._..t_:_--,V ‘

‘ \
\ _.“'\\\\.
k.
V \

 

 

 

 

 

Three Pals

MERRILL A.

ATSY” is a thoroughbred Scotch collie, with a nose

so long that it is always getting in the way. “Smut”
1s a friendly little rascal of undetermined lineage.
“J0e”—Old Black Joe, if you‘wish it—is a bouncing black
cat with a kink in the end of his tail.

Patsy and Joe belong to a country preacher while
Smut lives with the neighbors next door.

Every day Smut comes over to play with Patsy, or
Patsy goes over to play with Smut. Through the ﬁelds
they chase one another until their tongues fairly drag
on the ground. But they are always ready for more.

Occasionally Joe gets mixed up with them—but not
for long. He scurries under the barn or up into the hay—
mow beyond the reach of canine frivolity.

But one day he agreed to pose with the others. And
so we see them, sitting together on the parsonage steps.

Even as Patsy lends dignity to the preacher’s Model-T
Ford, so she rises to her majestic height above her
little friends and seems to accept the responsibility for
their protection. Smut, who is usually the most active
of the group, has calmly accepted, the fate of being
quiet for a moment. Good old Smut: he’s so full of life
that he can’t stop long enough to enjoy it. And Joe—
sleepy old fellow that he is—has settled down and just
doesn’t seem to care. He still has that kink in his tail,
thoughit’s so long it turns around and starts going back
the other way. _ :

Patsy frequently attends church with her preacher
master and, as many another has been known to do, goes
to sleep during the sermon. Joe doesn’t very often attend
Divine worship but on one occasion he got in just before
the close of the service and on hearing a familiar voice,
jumped upon the pulpit and remained there until after
the benediction. ‘

BEEM

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Jan.1941

A Letter from England

UR readers may be glad to see a

word from a letter just received by
us from an English friend whose large
estate makes it possible for him to do
much for many unfortunate victims of
the cruel war.

He writes that he has some twenty un-
fortunate women in his home, of whom
he’speaks as “my family of cripples.”
They are from a home in London which
they have had to abandon and, though all
of them are more or less badly crippled,
they do “really beautiful embroidery
work for which, fortunately, they still
ﬁnd a good market. After tea they play
all sorts of games and all go to bed at
about 9 P. M.

He says, “I have another type of
evacue here in the form of over thirty
head of cattle from Kent. In the more
dangerous zones there have been some
horrible cases of mutilation of cattle by
bombs. We have a very well-organized
society called NARPAC (National Air-
raid Protection of Animals Committee)
to look after welfare of all animals suf-
fering from the war. Their chief work is
the salvage of animals left in or escaped
from bombed houses. They do what they
can also in the case of animals bombed
in country districts, but there must al-
ways, I fear, be more or less delay before
they are found and humanely destroyed.

“We do rejoice in the help of every
kind that in such vast quantities is arriv-
ing here daily from your country. The
amount of money from the Red Cross
that comes in a continuous stream from
you is really astounding, considering
your crushing taxation.”

Humane Sunday in Boston

One of the outstanding events on Hu—
mane Sunday, opening the annual Be
Kind to Animals Week in Boston, is the
visit of the distinguished writer and
lecturer, Mr. Thornton W. Burgess of
Springﬁeld, Mass.

Mr. Burgess, who is a director of the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A., once more will
lecture under the auspices of the Society
in the lecture hall of the Boston Public
Library, Copley Square. This season his
title will be, “Making Friends with Anim
mals and Birds,” and, as usual, he will
show both still pictures and movies. The
lecture will be free to all who come be-
fore the hall is ﬁlled.

Please make a note now of the place
and time. Boston Public Library, Boyl-
ston Street entrance, Copley Square,
3:30 P. M., Sunday, April 20, 1941.
Doors open at 2 P. M.

The hummingbird, smallest of all
birds, migrates all the way from Alaska
to Brazil. It can ﬂy in any direction,
even backward, but it cannot walk. Cross-
ing the Gulf of Mexico, it ﬂies over 500
miles at a stretch.

()lllt

l)l]ﬂll3

.4]V.lﬂ1.41LS

The Outmoded Ox

HARRIET SMITH HAWL.EY

Page 13

 

A STURDY OUTFIT BEFORE THE AGE OF SPEED

O one in this machine age of ex-
I Q press trains, clippers and tractors

would think of. coveting his neigh-
bor’s ox, for the simple reason, I pre-
sume, that to the most of us the ox is
about as outmoded as the dinosaur, Many
city folks have never seen one, let alone
knowing how a good yoke of oxen works.

Yet the fact remains that not only was
the ox one of the most revered animals
of antiquity, having with his quiet eye
surveyed from his cave stable the birth
of civilization, but is yet in the more
primitive countries the strength of the
man on the soil.

In our own colonization, these strong,
sturdy yoke-fellows uprooted trees, drew
out rocks, carried them on stone-boats
for the foundations of houses and barns,
or for the building of the miles of stone
walls that our forefathers needed around
their pasture lots and meadow lands.
Oxen made roads where no roads were.
In winter they pushed through the drifts
and hauled the sleds loaded with wood
from the forests. They plowed the ﬁelds,
drew to the barns the loads of hay, while
whole families behind them rode to town
in the stout two-wheeled ox-cart. Oxen
drew the covered wagons that creaked
ever westward. And the most prized gift
that any farmer’s boy could have, was a
pair of matched steers. His to break
with the long goad stick as he shouted
in strident tones those guiding terms of
“Haw” and “Gee” in imitation of his dad.

Oxen in our country districts are now
few and far between. Only at state fairs
do we ﬁnd them, coming in pairs, hand—
some Devons, their mahogany sides
gleaming like satin and their long horns
polished and brass nubbed. Coming to
demonstrate their pulling strength on
cattle day when as of old they will be

put before an old stone—boat to exert
their best efforts. Then with blue rib-
bons or red ribbons they will be driven
home, or perhaps for a goodly price, sold
to some well-to-do farmer who wants a
pair on his estate to give it atmosphere.

Only in the more primitive and rug-
ged sections are oxen still used. Perhaps
the white oxen of Nova Scotia, plodding
along with their creaking carts, are one
of the charms of that scenic province.

Indeed were Moses writing the tenth
commandment today he would not along
with a wife and servants warn, “Thou
shalt not covet thy neighbor’s ox.”
Rather, I fancy, would it be his motor—
car.

And whether as Isaiah prophesied in
those days of peace to come, “The lion
shall eat straw like the ox,” remains yet
to be demonstrated.

God’s Garden

Edith Oard McCoy

From the Great White Light

Where the Great Ones dwell

God THOUGHT, and planned

His Universe well.

Then this wonderful Garden we call our
earth,

In aeons past came into birth,

Brought forth its myriad of life and form

That the Spirit of God had breathed upon,

And God said ”Let them evolve and grow

lnto my image; I WILL it so.

The greater shall have dominion for good

Over the lesser, as well they should.

01‘ their" tree will let them mercy show,

As I above, so they below.

Then shall be answered their prayers to me

As they do to these LEAST, THElR REWARD
SHALL BE."

 




 

April, 1941

whispered. “Keep your eyes peeled. If you
see anything, let me know.”

“I will not,” I said to myself. “Why
should I have to keep watch, perhaps half
the night, and then give him the pleasure
of shooting when I sight a deer? If I see
one, I’ll ﬁre at it.”

A cloud passed over the moon, dim-
ming the silent landscape. Slowly I
stretched my cramped legs, then sat per-
fectly still, my eyes fastened on the edge
of the forest. I did not move for what
seemed like hours. Then my back began
to ache, and my arms were stiff and cold.
I ran my ﬁngers along the chill steel riﬂe
at my side. Maybe the deer sensed our
presence and would not come out.

I leaned forward and looked closely
among the apple trees, then at the
swamp, and along the rim of the forest.
Nothing stirred. My eyes felt heavy. I
yawned and dozed.

I awoke with a guilty start, but Bub
was still sound asleep. My eyes searched
the orchard, but all was motionless and
silent under the moonlight.

For a long time I sat there, moving
only to relieve some cramped muscle.
Then, as I was about to doze off again,
I thought I saw something move in the
forest. My ﬁngers curled tight around
the riﬂe. I held my breath. There it was
again! The low-hanging branches rustled.
My throat went dry. Nothing moved for
a minute, then I saw a brown form step
cautiously out of the woods. It hesitated,
then walked slowly and silently through
the grassy swamp. It disappeared among
the alder brush, then emerged. I could
see it plainly now, a fawn, slim and
graceful, as it came noiselessly into the
orchard.

I picked up my riﬂe and ﬁtted it
against my shoulder. Through the sights
I could see the creature daintily picking
its way to an apple tree. The tiny head
stretched up and snipped at the leaves.
It looked so gentle and innocent! My foot
slipped, scratching along the plank. The
deer quivered with fear, then listened,
one little paw poised in the air. I aimed,
but already I knew that I could not kill
this shy, fragile animal, which was only
seeking something to eat. The deer
turned its head cautiously. I let the riﬂe
slide to the ground with a crash. Bub
jumped up.

“See anything?” he cried.

I looked down. The orchard lay white
and still. The deer was gone.

“No, not a thing,” I answered. I hoped
he would not notice that I was trembling.

The sight of human affairs deserves
admiration and pity; they are worthy of
respect too, and he is not insensible who
pays them the undemonstrative tribute
of a sigh which is not a sob, and of a
smile which is not a grin.

JOSEPH CONRAD

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 67'

Monument to a Burro
RUBY H. OHLER

ACH y e a r hun-
E dreds of tourists

and travelers
pause on the main
street of Fairplay,
Colorado, to View one
of the most famous
monuments in Ameri-
ca, the ﬁrst, and per-
haps the only one,
erected to the memory
of a burro.

As if to justify the
old mountain legend
that burros never die,
“Prunes,” in whose
honor the monument
stands, lived to the ven-
erable age of sixty-
three, when, due to in-
ﬁrmities which were
beginning to make his
life useless and miser-
able, the old burro’s ~
human friends deemed
it wise and kind to put
an end to his existence.

A r t h u r Brisbane,
famous newspaper
writer, commented on
the death of Prunes as
follows:

“An old donkey that
w o rke d in Colorado
mines so long that few
could remember when
he started, is dead at
last. He was worked
until he could not work
any more, or even eat.
They shot him.

“Now he is to be
‘honored’ with a mem-
orial built of ore samples from all the
mines in which he worked.

“A touching picture, it will be appre-
ciated by many old two—legged workers,
including white collar men, superanuated
bank clerks and others.

“They are less fortunate than the old
mine burro. Nobody builds a monument
to them and nobody shoots them when
they can no longer earn a living. They
are turned adrift.”

The inscription on the monument,
spelled out with glass marbles set in
cement, reads:

PRUNES
ABURRO
1867-1930
FAIRPLAY
ALMA
ALL MINES
IN THIS
DISTRICT
Above the inscription is a plaque

 

FAMOUS BURRO MONUMENT AT FAIRPLAY,

COLORADO

showing a lifelike likeness of the burro
and, since mining was his business, some
of the implements of the miners’ trade.
On either side of the inscription, behind
panes of glass, are magazine and news-
paper records of Prunes’ life and death,
illustrated with many photographs.
Strangely enough, similar records, fast
fading in the Colorado sunshine, are
held by thumb tacks to the outside
frames of the glass panes.

Within a fence at the rear of the
monument the body of Prunes lies close
to that of an old prospector, Rupe Sher-
wood, who had worked with Prunes
through many years, and whose death
followed that of the burro. Here can be
seen the primitive tools used by Sher-
wood in his years of pioneer-mining.

Prunes’ monument is electrically
lighted, for beneﬁt of night visitors, who
are numerous. And above it, summer or
winter, rain or sunshine, proudly waves
the Stars and Stripes.

 

 

 




 

Jan. 1941

Winning a Friend
CLAUD RUSSELL

NE summer evening when the door

was open a huge tiger cat strolled
in and immediately made himself at
home. At ﬁrst he eyed the Boston bull
with some apprehension but when he
saw that “Spud” was friendly, he went
over and proceeded to help himself to
Spud’s food. He was the largest cat I
ever saw and there wasn’t a bit of sur-
plus fat on his huge frame. This night
he ate ravenously and then curled up
contentedly on the floor. For four days
he stayed around and I thought he had
adopted the place for home, and nick-
named him “Alley,” since he was a stray
alley cat. However, one could plainly
see from his actions around the house
that he had at sometime been someone’s
pet. He and Spud became great pals and
had many a friendly romp together.

However, at the end of a few days, he -

disappeared for awhile. I thought per—
haps he had been struck by a car, but I
couldn’t ﬁnd any trace of him around
the neighborhood. A few weeks later he
returned again. He did this for about
six months. When he got hungry, he
would drOp around and get fed up and
rested for awhile and then disappear.

One night after he had been gone a
couple of weeks, I heard him meowing
loudly alongside the adjoining house. He
did not come when I called, which was
rather unusual, but just crouched along-
side the house as though. he were afraid
of me. I gradually approached him and
brought him into the house. I could see
immediately that something was decid-
edly wrong. At ﬁrst it looked as though
someone had taken a knife and cut a slit
clear around the poor animal’s neck. On
closer examination I found that some
child had put a rubber band around
Alley’s neck and it was still there. In a
frantic endeavor to get it off, he had
clawed until his neck was raw and it was
an open sore clear around his neck. I
took the rubber band carefully off;
painted the sore with some antiseptic
and put some vaseline on it. In the
course of a few weeks it healed up and
the fur grew there again, leaving no
traces of the sore. From then on though,
Alley decided to abandon his wandering
habits. He just adopted the place as
home and never left except for an hour
or two at a time. When my work carried
me to another city, I gave him to my
grandmother who lived alone. He im-
mediately made himself at home and she
became very attached to him. I often
thought that the thoughtless child who
slipped that rubber band around his neck
should have realized that his act caused
the poor animal untold suffering and
could easily have caused him slow death
from infection had it not been removed.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

POSTMAN GEORGE REE, OF VICTORIA, B. 0.,
WITH HIS TWELVE-YEAR-OLD CAT, “KELLY”

Page 9

because of their resemblance
to a purse. It is these bur-
sas, some claim, that give
kitty the acute hearing so
necessary in catching mice.
Puss can plainly hear the
merest scratch, squeak or
scurry. Her sense of smell is
keen, but it is not to be
compared to the keenness of
her ears.

But the bursa is not a
hearing aid in the generally
accepted sense; a very
learned and authoritative
naturalist disagrees with the
explanation given. Nor does
he think it a freakish and
unnecessary adjunct like the
human appendix. The bursa
has its use, he says, but not
to increase hearing. Mem-
bers of the canine family
wear bursas, but smell is
usually their ke-enest sense.

The important question,
however, was ﬁnally settled
to everyone’s satisfaction
after a long and tedious vigil
watching a cat trying to ﬁnd
a mouse in a closed room.
The little pocket ears are
locaters of sound, it was de—
cided. But, after all, in serv—

 

Postman Has Loyal Chum

WHEN George Ree, a familiar ﬁgure
around the busy streets of Vic-
toria, B. C., in his neat blue uniform and
peaked cap, steps off the street car each
evening, he is met by his most loyal
friend—a twelve-year—old, gray-striped
cat, “Kelly.” For several years, Kelly has
met the evening car to greet Mr. Ree on
his return home from work. And just as
regularly, the postman and his pet enter
the little corner store where an ice—cream
cone is purchased. Then, mounted on his
master’s shoulder, Kelly eats his cone as
the two chums stroll homeward.

The Keenest Hearing
L . E . E U B A N K S

NE of the ﬁrst things ever noted

about cats was their uncanny ability
to see in the dark. Also, people mar—
veled at the feline calmness and inde-
pendence. For a long time, too, the “nine
lives” superstition was taken seriously.
But cats have another seldom-mentioned
but most important possession: they can
hear the slightest sound. As E. A. Brooks
says, “Why shouldn’t they hear perfectly,
when they have ‘double ears’?”

The next time you pet a cat notice that
little pocket-like formation on the ear.
You will ﬁnd it on the outer rim rather
close to the head. These pockets, the
naturalists tell us, are bursas, so called

ing this purpose, they do
certainly help in hearing.

Bursas appear on the big cats—lions,
tigers, leopards, pumas, and the like.
They form part of the hearing apparatus
for dogs, wolves and foxes, but they are
missing on jackals and hyenas, which are
scavengers and carrion eaters, seldom
making their own kill. The pocket ears
do not appear on any of the bear tribe,
which are, generally speaking, vege-
tarians.

Nature is a saving lady. These auxili-
ary ears aid those animals who need
them. They are fully developed on the
predatory creatures, from the largest to
the smallest, and are from small to
practically non-existent on those which
prefer an almost vegetarian diet. Thus
the raccoons, opossums, civets and their
kind have small bursas, while weasels,
martens and stoats have them fully
developed. In badgers, woodchucks and
skunks they are very small. The otter,
although a killer, has no need of such
hearing aids as his ﬁshing is all done
under water. Sight is what he has to
depend on.

Scientiﬁcally, the bursa is termed “a
specialized feature in carnivora;” its
disappearance is a marked sign of the
degeneration of the ear.

All people should take part in feeding
the birds in cold and snowy weather.
Bread crumbs and seeds of various kinds
should be mercifully given to them.

 




 

 

 

Page 66

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

The Judge and the Horse

 

 

“TODY AXWORTHY,” OWNED BY JUDGE CHARLES S. MURPHY,
WORCESTER, MASSACHUSETTS

HE following comes from Judge

ll Charles S. Murphy of the law ﬁrm

of Murphy and Nugent, Worcester,
Mass.

Editor, Our Dumb Animals

Boston, Mass.

Dear Sir:

Enclosed please ﬁnd picture of my
horse known as “Tody Axworthy” com—
ing from the Tody Axworthy breed, a
famous breed in this country. She is a
trotting mare and at the age of two
years her trotting time was two minutes.
One of her handlers slashed her with a
whip and then it was too bad for every-
one. From that time on she was sold
from pillar to post and ﬁnally I got her
in a raffle.

If anyone attempted to get on her
back she would fall over backwards and
a few people were rather badly hurt be-
cause of this. The ﬁrst time I saddled
her it took me three-quarters of an hour
to get on her. When I ﬁnally did, she
and I had it out. I was very careful not
to pull on her bit and on that occasion I
decided that a curved bit irritated her
and I took it off and put on a leather bit
with leather siders. From a real outlaw
she came to be the horse you see in this
picture.

I have a ring a quarter of a mile in
circumference and I put her in the ring
and stand in the middle commanding her
to walk, trot, canter or stop; whatever I
want her to do, she obeys. Last summer
I showed her on the Spencer track and
followed her with an automobile. She
absolutely obeyed every command, and it
was surprising to see her halt when com-
manded to do so.

Every year, I have a Murphy Day at
my place in Paxton where people come

from all over New England. On some
occasions I have had as many as 10,000
people, and have shown them what this
mare can do, trotting, cantering, walk—
ing by herself—whatever the command
1s.

I am writing this letter for the pur-
pose of showing that 90% of the so-
called outlaws are made outlaws by their
handlers. I never touch Tody with a
whip. When she acts up or becomes a
little panicky, I just talk to her. I am
also writing this letter so that others
will know that a little patience and kind-
ness can do wonders with a high-strung
irrational animal.

My place in Paxton is called “Sport-
vale,” containing 127 acres of land.
There I have horses, donkeys, sheep,
goats, dogs and cats as well as other
small animals. At the present time 1‘
have six dogs and it is rather interest—
ing to go horseback riding and have the
whole six dogs trailing along, getting as
much enjoyment out of this as I do.

Yours very truly,
JUDGE CHARLES S. MURPHY

Humane Sunday Lecture

Humane Sunday, April 20, will be ob-
served in Boston by a free public lecture
in the lecture hall of the Boston Public
Library, Copley Square, at 3:30 P. M.
under the auspices of the Massachusetts
S. P. C. A.

We are indeed fortunate to be able to
announce Mr. Thornton W. Burgess as
the speaker again this season. His sub-
ject is “Making Friends with Animals
and Birds,” and he will show his own
original colored moving pictures.

April, 191,1

There Must be an After-resting
Place

Salvatore Marsiglia

There must be an after-resting place
Where animals may go—

Did not they breathe upon His face,

And make His body glow?

Ah, though two thousand years have gone
Since Christ's great natal day,

He must have, in the earth’s first dawn
Rewarded them some way.

The humble ox and cow and sheep—
They gathered ’round His bed

And smiled upon Him deep in sleep
In worship at His head.

And, later, in a fateful year,

A donkey He did ride

Throughout a town of joy and cheer,
Past people at His side.

Christ must have had in youthful days,
Either a dog or cat—

A dog who wandered in His ways,

A cat grown sleek and fat.

And has it not been shown before

That, like a pilgrim band,

Even the birds and beasts of yore

Were fed by His own hand?

Therefore, there must in justice right
Since He, a love did bear,

Be furnished them a place of light,
Of peace and quiet fair.

A place where in the sun they may,
Far from the wrongs of man,
Engage in rest and well-earned play
In time’s eternal span!

My Last Hunt

JUNE OWEN

HE moon, emerging from behind a

cloud, revealed the scraggly black
limbs of the alder brush clumped at the
foot of the orchard. Beyond, the long
grass of the swamp lay white and still.
Only the distant forest was shadowed in
darkness. From our perch, high in a pine
tree, Bub and I peered intently at the
young apple trees below. I shivered,
partly from cold, partly from anticipa-
tion.

“See anything?” I whispered hoarsely.

“Not yet. Don’t talk.”

Deer, stealing into the orchard at
night, had been eating the tender, new
leaves. After supper this evening Bub
had taken his gun and said he was going
to shoot the culprits. I begged to go
along. They laughed at me. I had never
been hunting. I’d be too nervous to aim
straight if I saw anything. Finally,
grudgingly, Bub consented.

Our perch was a wooden plank nailed
in the wide crotch of the tree. Bub rested
his back against a sloping limb.

“I’m going to take a little nap,” he

 




 

Aug. 1941

The Owls Have Come

KADRA MAYSI

YEAR ago last spring I went, one

evening, to play contract bridge
with friends at Porter Military Acad-
emy, in Charleston, S. C. As I got out of
the car on that beautiful walled campus
and walked toward the house, a ghostly
gray thing detached itself from one of
the trees and swooped directly at my
head. It did not quite strike me, for I
gave a terriﬁc shriek and rushed up the
walkway and into the door at approxi—
mately 50 m.p.h.

“The owls have come,” my friends
said. They did not seem at all disturbed,
although one of the birds had registered
a direct hit on the scalp of a member of
the family. It was either a better marks—
man than the one which dived on me or
else I proved a too—swiftly-moving target.

Every spring—my friends told me—
the owls arrive at this historic church-
and—military school and build their nests
in the old. trees which shade the faculty
homes. They are of that small species
called hoot owl—just a size larger than
the screech owl, whose eerie cry is said
by the superstitious to be a harbinger of
death. But, although small, the visitors
take charge of the campus and dare stu-
dents or teachers to walk beneath their
own trees after dusk.

This ﬁerceness is, of course, designed
to protect their young, which hatch out,
become feathered and make ﬁrst clumsy
attempts at ﬂight among the spreading
branches of the elms. One day two of
these young aviation students fell out of
a tree while attempting to solo. For
hours they sat close together on the curb
and, if anyone approached, their parents
went into a power dive.

The walled parade ground and tall,
thick trees are a haven to the nesting
birds. Although in the heart of a city,
they are sheltered and protected. With a
regiment of gray clad cadets drilling
within a hundred feet, the migrants set
up housekeeping and raise their owlets.
These evolve from helpless, feathery
dumplings into hook-nosed, ﬁerce-eyed,
strong-winged prowlers of the night.
They will remember this refuge of their
infancy and will return next season to
rear another generation.

And, in spite of their seeming ingrati-
tude for hospitality, they will be loved
and welcomed at Porter Military Acad~
emy. Teachers, cadets and army ofﬁcers
are proud of their colony of owls, and
people from other parts of Charleston go
to see them. Just a few days ago a young
cadet said to me: “The owls have come.
Aren’t you coming to see them this
year?”

Yes; I shall go to see them. But I
shall either borrow a helmet or carry an
open umbrella.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

KING OF THE SWAN FLOCK

Page 153

The swan is a
temperamental
b i r d and rather
hard to become
friendly with at
times. Yet some-
times they will
come close to the
outstretched hand
for a morsel of
food. At other
times they become
e a s i l y “irritated
and turn in swift
anger upon their
would-be f ri e n d.
Dogs often seem to
a n n o y them by
barking along the
b a n k or darting
suddenly into the
water.

In other coun-
tries the y o u n g
swan or “cygnet”

 

The Graceful Swan

GLADYS JORDAN

NCE again the beautiful, aristo—

cratic swans are coming back to our
small lakes and parks. Bred in Europe,
the so-called “bird royal” of the English,
they now adorn our public places in regal
splendor.

A large bird of spotless white plum—
age with orange-red bill topped by a
black knob, called the berry, and black
legs, it commands attention. Their an-
cestors belonged to royalty, or at least
they came under the royal command. For
at one time a law was passed in England
forbidding any person to keep these
birds without license from the crown. It
also decreed that each bird must bear a
distinguishing mark of ownership on its
bill. In the reign of Elizabeth there were
over 900 different swan—marks in use.

In America there is no such law. The
beauty and grace of the swan makes it
a welcome resident in our parks. Their
glossy white feathers lie unruffled over
a mass of soft down. Almost without
visible effort they ﬂoat over the water.
When hungry, their long graceful necks
reach down into the lake in search of
greens, grubs and gravel. Their keepers
feed them on corn and wheat, lettuce,
celery and other greens.

They can stand very cold weather but
when the ice begins to close in on them
in Maine they are sent to the Franklin
Park Zoo in Boston for the winter. Our
Maine swans are quite traveled. Born in
Europe, they came to New Hampshire,
then to Maine for their summers. While
most of them are pure white there is
often seen among them, as a striking
contrast, one that is a pure black. The
black ones came from Australia.

—« was once consid—
ered a great table delicacy but here it
feels safe and at home. Their nest is
only a large mass of aquatic plants, some
two feet high and six feet across. They
lay ﬁve to nine eggs that are a grayish
olive color.

The young birds are not pure white
like their parents. Such beauty does not
develop all at once. When young they are
covered with a sooty—gray down and it
is often a year before they become all
white. The young are very interesting
but it takes time for them to acquire the
grace and beauty of their elders. They
require care and suitable diet to make
them live and develop properly.

In many park—ponds there are swan
houses on tiny islands. Here the birds
seem to retire to rest, not in the house
itself but within its shadow as though
they knew what a perfect background it
makes for their spotless plumage. Then
they slip again into the water and, fol-
lowing their leader, ﬂoat away across
the blue, their slender necks turning
from right to left in quiet aristocratic
grace.

To Curb Cruelty in Dog Racing

A bill recently introduced in the Flor-
ida Legislature providing for ﬁnes up to
$250 and prison terms up to six months
for the use of cats to train racing grey-
hounds, has become law. The use of cats
for this purpose was a widespread prac-
tice in some parts of the state.

Legislation of this nature was badly
needed in the state, as an investigating
committee recently appointed by the
Florida Senate revealed that the use of
cats for the purpose described was an
abuse of long standing in the greyhound

racing business.
DAVID LORD

 

 

 




 

 

 

BASTIAN BROS. CO.

Advertising Specialties
in
Metal, Leather, and
Celluloid
Indoor Signs, Name Plates

Convention Badges and

Emblems

ROCHESTER, NEW YORK

 

 

 

 

 

KEEP YOUR DOGS

 
   

 

 
  
 

Use Nema Capsules to remove
large roundworms and hook-
a F R E E Send for Nema
" booklet No. 652.

Write to Animal Industry Dept, Desk N58G

PARKE, DAVIS & 00., DETROIT, MlCH.
Drug Stores Sell Parke Davis Products

 

 

Compliments of
GALLUP and HADLEY
Attorneys and Counsellors-at-Law

DANA T. GALLUP 6 BEACON ST..
EDWIN W. HADLEY BOSTON, MASS.

 

 

 

 

NEW ENGLAND ANTI-GAMBLING
ASSOCIATION. INC.
6 BEACON ST.. BOSTON. MASS.

“We compliment the M. S. P. C. A. on its
noble Work to prevent cruelty to racing
animals.”

EDWIN W. HADLEY, President

 

 

 

 

 

 

”/22 DIFFERENT/

Fragrant, super- s-oft talc medicated /' ,
with soothing balsamic oils. Buy 003,10...
today—all druggists—only 25¢.

(”W/(R

   

  
      
     

_ POWDER

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1 832

J. s. WATERMAN & sons, Inc.
Huhertakem

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE

City and out-oE-town service

 

 

 

 

 

 

Humane Literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For sale by the American Humane Education Society and the Massachusetts 5. P. C. A.,

180 Longwood Avenue, Boston,

Titles in bold—face type

Our Dumb Animals, 1940, bound volume $1.00
Our Dumb Animals, 1930, 1937, and 1939

bound volume, each .................. .i5
Colored Posters, 17 X 28 inches, attrac—

tive pictures and verses, six in set 1.00
C’olored Posters, 17 x 22 inches, eight in

5cts. each: eight for 35 cts.
3.3/8 $01.50 per 100

the set
Be Kind to Animals Blotters. 6%; x

About the Horse

...... 50 cts.
.. $0.00 per 100

Black Beauty (English), cloth
The Horse—*Treatment of Sores, etc

Humane Education Leaflet, No. 5 ........ .50 “ “
The Horse’s Prayer .................... .30 “ “
How to Treat a Horse .................. .50 “ “
The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow 50 “ “
About the Dog
Beautiful Joe, new, i11us., $1.50 ........ sma11,500ts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by" Vest, postcard—$1.00 per 100

The Dog~lts Care in Health and Disease .00 “ “
Suggestions for Feeding Dogs .......... 2.00 “ “
Important Advice on Feeding the Dog

and the Cat — A Supplement by Dr.

Rudolph H. Schneider ................ 1.00 “ “
Humane Education Leaflets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ “
What the Chained Dog Says .......... .50 “ “
The Story of Barry .................... .30- “‘ “
“Don” and His Boy Scout Friends, J. P.

Lyons ................................. 50r “ “
Road Accidents to Dogs, 4 pp. ........ Free
Boots’ Day, Play, for two boys and three

girls ..................... 3 cts. each; five for 10l cts.

About the Bird
The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus ........ cloth, $0. 45
Humane Education Leaflets, Nos. 1 and 2. $0. 50 per 100
How the Birds Help the Farmer ........ .50 “
The Air— Gun and the Birds .............. .50 “ “
The Care of Caged Canaries ............ .30 “ “

About the Cat

The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease.$0u.60 per 100

The Cat in Literature .................. .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ...... .50 “ “
IVIollie Whitefoot’s Vacation ............ .50 “ “

‘5 (I

“The Beggar Cat,” post—card, G cts. doz. .50

About Other Animals

The Strike at Shane’s cloth, 30 cts. . paper, 7 cts.
For l’ity's Sake ........................ paper, 5 cts.
The Great Cruelty Again, Dr. Bowley.. Free
First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp.$1.00 per 100
Gripped in the Teeth of" Steel, 2 pp. .50 “ “
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. 1.00 “ “
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 6, Animals .50;

Ways of Kindness ...................... .50 “ “
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 7, Farm

Animals .................. . . . .......... .50 “ “
A Wise Fish ............................ .50 “ “
Care of Rabbits ........................ .30 “ “
Hints on the Care of Cows ............ .50 “ “
Directions for the Care of Swine ........ 1.00 “ “
Professor Frog’s Lecture, 8 pp. ........ .75 “ “
Why the Toad is so Useful .............. .30 “ “
Jewish and Gentile Methods of Slaugh-

tering, illus. .......................... each, 15 cts.
Vivisection—The Opinions of Famous

People, illus. ......................... each, 20 cts.

The Jack London Club

Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
What is the Jack London Club? ........ $0.30 per 100

Mass,

at these prices, postpaid.

are of books or booklets

Foreword from “Michael Brother of Jerry”$0.30 per 100
Films, Fakes and Facts, Helen Trevelyan

4 pp. .50 “

Do Wild Animals Prefer Captivity?
Helen Trevelyan, 4 pp. .............. .50

Trained Animals —— Cruelty Disguised,
Helen Trevelyan, 4 pp.

Humane Education
The Animal or the Child, Dr. Rowley.. Free
Humane Education, An Activity of the
National Congress of Parents and
Teachers, by Dr. Francis H. Rowley
The Relation of the Home to Character
Formation, Dr. Francis H. Rowley
Humane Education and Spiritual Values,
Dr. 3towley ...........................
For Parents and Teachers, Plan‘of \Vork
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ........
The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools
96 pp. .................. 12 cents each; ten for $1.00
Care and Kindness for Our Animal
Friends, 3‘2 pp., paper covers, many
illus. .................. 1O cts. each; twelve for $1.00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp., ‘ twelve for $1.00

Free
Free

Free
Free
Free

10 cts.,
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-

cation, 32 pp.
An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.

Gilbert, 48 pp. For first and second

grades ................................ each 10 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ........ each 25 cts.
The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

each, 10 cts.

........................

Rowley ................................ cloth, 35 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use) Sarah J. Eddy ............ cloth, $1.00
A Place for Pets, play ....... 2 cts. each; six for 10c.

The B—K—T—A—C‘lub, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 25c.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,”
play ....................... 3 cts. each; ten for 250.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play ......
3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.
Humane Sunday ....................... lc. each
I’ll Never Hunt Again, play 3 cts. each; five for 10 cts.
The Best Gift, play ........ 2 cts. each; six for 10 cts.
Humane Exercises ...................... $1.50 per 100
Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.

Rowle‘y, short radio address, 2 cts. each; .50 “
Humane Education, What to Teach and

How to Teach It ...................... .50
Outlines of Study in Humane Education 1.50
Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty .. .50
A Talk with the Teacher .............. .50
Our Love for Animals, a short radio

address ..................... 2 cts. each; 1.00
Bookmark. with “A Humane Prayer” . 1.00 ‘
A Festival of Tender Mercies .......... .50
Need of Humane Education Societies

and Methods of Forming Them ........ 50 ‘
How to Organize a Society for the

Protection of Animals ................ 50 ‘
Incidents about Animals, by Geo. T.

Angell ................................. 1.00 “

Twenty Years of Be Kind to Animals
Week, Guy Richardson . .3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.

Band of Mercy

“Be Kind to Animals Buttons,” three
styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So-
ciety, or S. P C, A. .................. $1.00 per 100
Buttons—White star on blue ground with
gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00 “ “

Badges, gold finish, large, 10 cts., small 5cts.
“Band of Mercy” pennant ............ 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.

J. Eddy ............................... 50 cts.
Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words

only) .................................. $3.00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ...... .50 “ "
How to Form Bands of Mercy .......... .50 ‘
Does it Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30 “ “

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1
AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Long‘wood Ave., Boston, Mass.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 32

 
 
  
  
    

 
 
   
 

  

GLORY TO
GOD,
PEACE ON EARTH,
KINDNESS, JUSTICE 0
AND MERCY T0
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

7
9
m .,
2

 

 
   

Founded by Geo. T. Angell Incorporated 1889

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Officers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President and Ch. Fi-
nance Com., United Shoe Machinery Corporation

CHARLES E. SPENCER, JR., President, First National
Bank of Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

E. J. H. Escobar .................. Colombia
Luis Pareja Cornejo ............... Ecuador
Charles A. Williams ............... France
Leonard T. Hawksley .............. Italy

S. C. Batra ....................... India
Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe ............ Japan
Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ....... Madeira
Dr. A. T. Ishkanian ............... Mexico
Mrs. Alice W. Manning ........... Turkey

Humane Press Bureau
Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston
Field Workers of the Society
. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
. James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Slaton, Texas
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, South Carolina
Rev. R. E. Grifﬁth, De Land, Florida

Field Representative
Dr. Wm. F. H. Wentzel, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

Mrs.

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF FIELD
WORKERS FOR DECEMBER, 1940

Number of Bands of Mercy formed, 398
Number of addresses made, 204
Number of persons in audiences, 29,435

Retired W7orkers9 Fund

E are receiving gifts to the Ameri-

can Humane Education Society as a
trust fund, the interest to be used for the
beneﬁt of ﬁeld missionaries and others who
have spent their lives in promoting humane
education. Already several cases have come
to our attention and are being relieved in
this way. We will welcome your contribu-
tion to this fund.

Please make checks payable to Treas-
urer, American Humane Education Society,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, and specify
that the amount contributed is for the Hu-
mane Education Trust Fund. ‘

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

From ,Syria

EADERS of our magazine have heard

from time to time of one of our rep-
resentatives, Mr. N. B. Matta, in far-off
Syria, Where the cedars of Lebanon grow.
Our latest letter from this representa—
tive, dated October 14, 1940, from the
American Mission, Beirut, Lebanon,
says:

“The Villages Visited during this past
period of "time were 67. The most impor-
tant lecture delivered was entitled, ‘If
Humaneness Were More Developed.’
Attendants were not less than 4,800
people.

“Animals humanely put to sleep are
93 dogs, 57 horses, 41 donkeys, 17 cats,
2 cows and one rabbit. Animals taken
care of are 10 horses, 22 donkeys, 4
mules, 14 dogs, 5 cats and 2 hens. Ani—
mals lost and returned to their owners:
13 cows, 7 donkeys, 4 horses and 3 dogs.

“Thank you very much for your ﬁnan—
cial help.”

(This ﬁnancial help is from a fund
given especially for such work in a far-
off land.)

Mr. Matta is not only a devoted hu-
mane worker but a preacher as well, and
is studying theology at Beirut.

England and Animals

The Royal S. P. C. A., London, has
appealed to the American Humane Asso-
ciation for ﬁnancial help in these days
when the demands upon it are so great.
Alas, it appears that Federal regulations
forbid solicitation or collection of funds
in behalf of any organization in a coun-
try at war, unless a special permit has
been issued by the Secretary of State,
and at the present time such permits are
only issued to organizations collecting
funds for the alleviation of human suf-
fering. Efforts are being made to secure,
if possible, a permit to solicit funds for
Englishhumane societies. We shall keep
our readers informed of the results.

New Honors for Mr. Carroll

Seymour Carroll, ﬁeld representative
of the American Humane Education So-
ciety, was asked by Governor Maybank
to assist him and General Holmes B.
Springs in appointing 120 Negro leaders
in South Carolina as members of special
County Selective Service boards.

In spite of England’s exacting task of
caring for its homeless, injured animals
and those whose owners cannot give them
up, money is being raised there for the
unfortunate animals in Greece.

Free illustrated lecture, “Making
Friends with Animals and Birds,” by
Thornton W'. Burgess, Boston Public
Library, COpley Square, Humane Sun-
day, April 20, 3:30 P. M.

Feb. 191,1

Sister Shepperson Honored

LARGE bronze medal was awarded

to Sister Fides Shepperson, a fre-
quent contributor to Our Dumb Animals,
for distinguished religious service in 1940
by a prominent citizen of New York.

The medal was designed by the noted
artist and sculptor, Louis Mayer. On one
side is the inscription and a dove of peace
carrying the olive branch over the world;
on the obverse side is a noble ﬁgure
pointing to a maze of stars. The sur—
rounding inscription reads, “They that
turn many unto righteousness shall shine
as the stars forever and ever.”

The award was made to Sister Fides in
recognition of her activities in behalf of
humane education in schools, and for her
sincere efforts by word and pen in the
cause of world peace. The spiritual
values leading to the award are found in
her little book, recently published, “Fran—
cis of’ Assisi in Silhouettes.”

Full of Kind Deeds

Mrs. W. M. Smith, humane chairman
of the North Avenue School in Hopeville,
Georgia, reports that the school is 100
per cent in the Band of Mercy; In three
months no less than 2,782 kind deeds to
animals and aged people were reported
by the members of this enthusiastic
Band. Now the group is working to help
the stricken animals in England.

 

“Davie” and His Mistress

For many years “Davie” has had a
bank for coins saved for The Massachu-
setts Society for the Prevention of Cruel-
ty to Animals. Year by year the bank
has come to us with its gifts. Just before
this last Christmas it arrived with $8.25.
Davie, hale and hearty, is ﬁfteen and a
half years of age.

 




 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

BEAUTIFUL SPAN OWNED BY DWIGHT EDWARDS, AUBURN, MAINE

 

Beautiful and Useful

HELEN S. MARSH

HIS pair of well-groomed horses is
owned by Dwight Edwards of Au-
burn, Maine.

Their beauty does not detract from
their usefulness, as they are heavy
enough for ordinary work, yet light
enough for sleigh or carriage driving,
and also well conformed for the saddle.

“Kindness and excellent care” is Mr.
Edwards’ motto in the treatment of all
animals.

“Cricket”
LEE WARNER

][ QUIT. I resign. I know when I have
had enough.”

“What is the matter, Charlie?” Hugo
asked his wrangler who had burst into
the lodge, his clothes covered with dust.

“It is that horse! I tell you Hugo,
she is plumb loco. I’ve seen some ornery
horses in my day but none like that.”

“Well, I’ll call the Ranger Station and
have them come and get her,” Hugo re-
plied.

The mare had been bought by the gov-
ernment for use in the Rocky Mountain
National Forest and had -been stabled in
the Phantom Valley Ranch.

“What is the matter with her?” I
asked;

“Brother, have you ever seen a loco
horse? If you haven’t, just go out there
and have a look. But I warn you, don’t
get close to her. Why, she is so batty
she is just standing there in her stall
starving herself to death,” Charlie went
on. “Been here four days and I can’t
even get her out for water. Nearly killed
the Ranger yesterday morning too.”

I was anxious to see this “loco” horse,
so after breakfast I walked out to the
stables. A beautiful sorrel, with lighter
mane and tail, she stood about ﬁfteen
hands high and probably weighed a little
over a thousand pounds. TOO light for
trail work and too thin for her size.

The horse lifted her ears and turned
her head. If you have ever seen the eyes
of an insane person you will know what
I mean when I say there was a look of
madness in the mare’s eyes. I‘ stood there
quietly for a few minutes, then spoke to
her gently. At that moment that spark
of something between man and horse
ﬂashed between the sorrel mare and. my-
self. I stepped into her stall and untied
the rope and she walked through the
barn door as pretty as you please.

“Where you goin’ with that horse?”
Charlie yelled. “Watch out! she’ll kill
you.”

“I’ll take a chance,” I answered.

We walked down to the creek. The
mare dropped her nose down under my
arm and stood there for a long moment,
her head pressed against my side.

When we came back to the stable 3.
Forest Ranger was there with a trailer.
He had brought in a sturdy little moun-
tain horse and had come for the sorrel.

“What are you going to do with her?”
I asked.

“Turn her loose,” he replied. “She is
locof’

I did not dispute his word.

Without peer or rival, the horse is the
most beautiful among animals that man
has made his own. Not vainly the Arab-
ian loves his steed more than his woman;
and the Argentine gaucho caressing the
luxuriant mane of his pareiero, ex-
claims: “Pues de Dios e1 caballo (after
God the horse).”

PAOLO MANTEGAZZA

 

M ay, 191,1

The Horse of Stout Cortez

DOROTHY L. PILLSBURY

VERYONE knows the story of Cor-

tez, of how he conquered the rich
and powerful kingdom of the Aztec king,
Montezuma, and opened up the wealth
and splendor of the New World for the
kings of Spain.

But few people know the story of
“Morzillo,” the horse which carried Cor-
tez on his adventures. If it had not been
for the horse, maybe Cortez would not
have conquered Mexico. The Aztecs had
never seen a horse before. There was not
one in all the New World. Naturally they
thought men on horseback were a new
creation, part god, part man, a kind of
centaur. They Offered the Spanish sol-
diers garlands Of ﬂowers and bowls of
beaten gold instead of putting up a stiff
resistance which they were well able
to do. '

Be that as it may, years after the
Aztec capital had fallen, Cortez made a
trip into what is now Honduras. Cortez
led the expedition, mounted on Morzillo
and a large company of musketeers and
crossbowmen followed.

Finally they came to the city of a
Maya chief. In front of this city was a
little green where the sacred deer were
feeding. Cortez and some of his men
pursued the deer and shot at them from
their horses’ backs. But Morzillo could
not enter the chase because of a sliver
of stone which had wounded his foot.

The Maya chief was so impressed with
the strange animals that galloped over
the green emitting ﬂashes of lightning
and awful noises at every leap that he
received Cortez and his company well,
and overlooked the injury done to the
sacred deer. When it was found that
Morzillo because of the injured foot
could not make the long journey back to
Mexico City, the chief Offered to care
for him.

And how he did care for him! He
ordered that garlands of gardenias be
hung around the horse’s neck and that
fowls be roasted for him to eat and that
he be worshipped as the god of thunder
and lightning.

In spite of all this pomp and cere-
mony, Morzillo sickened and died. Per-
haps it was because Cortez never came
back. Almost a century later two priests
visited the Maya city and found there a
great image of a horse reared back on
its haunches. It was beautifully carved
of shining rock and many times the size
of the original. SO did Morzillo, the
horse of stout Cortez remain a memory
in that remote Maya city.

In 1912 the report of the assessors of
Boston showed that there were then
17,100 horses in the city. Now there are
about 1,200.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 158

@112 Zﬁanh nf myrrg nr

Zluninr ﬁumanr “ﬂip-agar

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary
E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer

PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living crea-
tures and try to protect them from
cruel usage.

The American Humane Education So-
ciety will send to every person who forms
a Band of Mercy of thirty members, and
sends the name chosen for the Band and the
name and post—ofﬁce address of the presi-
dent who has been duly elected, special
Band of Mercy literature and a gilt badge
for the president. See inside front cover
for prices of literature and Band of Mercy
Supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Two hundred and six new Bands of
Mercy were reported during June. These
were distributed as follows:

Rhode Island .................. 165
New York .................... 27
Florida ...................... 7
Virginia ...................... 7

206

Total number Bands of Mercy organ-
ized by Parent American Society,
259,450.

Twenty Years Without a
Drink!

Amazing Record of Rare Australian
Animal

EWEN K. PATTERSON

UCH has been written about the

ability of the camel to do without
a drink for a considerable period; but
no camel, or any other animal, has ever
equalled the amazing record established
by a veteran Australian koala, or native
bear, popularly known as “Grandma,”
who over the last twenty years has never
had a drink!

No other animal could exist for a
single year without water to drink; but
for twenty years “Grandma” has per-
sistently refused to touch all drinks of-
fered to her. Despite this, she is in per-
fect health; over the last twenty years
she has reared a record family of
twelve, and she is the longest-lived koala
ever known.

As a result, Grandma has become
quite famous; she is the “queen” of a
large koala sanctuary in the State of
Queensland, Australia, and many of her
descendants have been used to restock
areas from which the quaint bears were
completely exterminated by hunters
years ago.

While no other koala has ever been
known to equal Grandma’s record of

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

going without a drink for
twenty years, close observa—
tions of the bears at sanctu—
aries throughout Australia
have revealed the Previously
unknown fact that in their
natural state the peculiar
animals invariably go right
through life without a drink
of any kind. They are unique
among all animals in that
they do not naturally drink;
in fact, unless trained to do
so they cannot drink. When
offered water or other liquid
they generally try to chew
it as they chew leaves.

Normally, the only liquid
food which the animals have
during their lifetime is their
mother’s milk on which they
live for the ﬁrst six months
of their existence. This is
obtained from a pouch in
front of the mother’s abdo-
men, where the baby is car-
ried until \ it is about six
months old.

After leaving the pouch
the koalas feed exclusively
on gum-tree leaves, and usu—
ally the small amount of
moisture they obtain from
the leaves they eat complete-
ly satisﬁes their t hir s t.
W i t h o u t gum-leaves the

 

 

LOVABLE AUSTRALIAN KOALAS

Aug. 1941

 

 

animals cannot exist; this

exclusive diet necessitates vast quanti-
ties of leaves being eaten, of course, in
order that the bear may receive sufﬁci-
ent carbohydrates, protein and fat, and
Nature has responded to such demands
by providing the animal with an amaz—
ing appendix—larger than that of any
other animal in existence.

After being rendered almost extinct
by the activities of fur hunters, the koala
is now protected by law for all time
throughout Australia. There are now
about 750,000 of these bears throughout
the country.

Little Samaritan
MARY AGNES COLVILLE

T happened on a sultry summer day—

this bit of drama. At the edge of a
parking lot, a dog, with his tongue hang-
ing out, jumped frantically up and down,
trying vainly to escape from a small
coupe where he had been left shut in
alone. The car, fortunately, did have one
slightly opened window so the black
spaniel could at least get a scant bit of
humid air. But in that unsheltered spot,
the sun beat down relentlessly—its

steady glare focused on the sweltering
animal.

Suddenly a rosy cheeked, blonde little
girl of perhaps seven, came tripping

down the street—a freshly purchased
ice cream cone raised to her lips. She
munched contentedly away until she
spied the unhappy acting dog. Quickly
taking one more bite from the cream,
she hurried over to the car—and stand—
ing on the running board, she reached
the cone—still generously full—through
the slight aperture, letting its refresh-
ing coldness come in contact with the
hot gaping tongue.

Until the obviously parched canine had
ﬁnished every vestige of the cone, the
child stood patiently on tip—toe, holding
her impromptu gift near the spaniel’s
mouth.

When he had devoured the last cool-
ing morsel, the little girl announced that
she must hurry home. And with a fare-
well wave of the hand to her chance
acquaintance, she went humming happily
on her way. As for the refreshed dog,
he lay down quiet and contented now
for a sleep on the rear seat.

At that moment, we who had been
watching emerged from a temporary
trafﬁc tie-up—and dog and child dis-
appeared from sight.

We had not the slightest inkling of
the identity of the participants in this
little drama. But the child’s unselﬁsh
sharing with the strange dog—her keen
perception of his uncomfortable plight
remain highlighted in memory.

 

 

 

 

 

 




JANUARY 1941

OUR DUMB
  ANIMALS ~

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY
FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY
TO ANIMALS E7 THE AMERICAN
HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

 

 




 

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel
JOSEPH MOONEY, Treasurer’s Assistant

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President and Ch. Fi-
nance Com., United Shoe Machinery Corporation

CHARLES E. SPENCER, JR., President, First National
Bank of Boston
Prosecuting Officers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100

L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Officer
HARRY L. ALLEN HOWARD WILLAND
HARVEY R. FULLER J. ROBERT SMITH
County Prosecuting Officers
Middlesex and Norfolk

Eastern Essex
Western Essex

HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston
FRED T. VICKERS, Wenham
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen
JOSEPH E. HASWELL, Methuen
FRED T. HALL, Springﬁeld

Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
CHARLES E. BROWN, Attleboro, Bristol and Plymouth
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis

Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket

T. KING HASWELL, Pittsﬁeld Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal
Methuen
W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Western Essex

Shelter,

Other Small Animal Shelters of M. S. P. C. A.
Boston, 170-184 Longwood Avenue
Springﬁeld, 53-57 Bliss Street
Pittsﬁeld, 224 Cheshire Road
Attleboro, 3 Commonwealth Avenue
Hyannis, State Road, Rte. 28, Centerville
Wenham, Cherry Street

DECEMBER REPORT OF THE OFFICERS
OF THE MASSACHUSETTS s. P. C. A...
WITH HEADQUARTERS AT BOSTON,
METHUEN, SPRINGFIELD, PITTSFIELD,
ATTLEBORO, WENHAM, HYANNIS, WOR-
CESTER, FITCHBURG, NORTHAMPTON,
HAVERHILL, HOLYOKE, ATHOL, TAUN-
TON, COVERING THE ENTIRE STATE

Miles traveled by humane officers . . 15,889
Cases investigated . . . . . . . . . . . . . 259
Animals examined . . . . . . . . . . . 5,766
Animals placed in homes . . . . . . . 275
Lost animals restored to owners. . 77
Number of prosecutions . . . . . . . . . 2
Number of convictions .......... 2
Horses taken from work. . . . . . . . 3
Horses humanely put to sleep. . . . 54
Small animals humanely put to sleep 1,648
Horse auctions attended ....... . 12
Stockyards and Abattoirs
Animals inspected ............. 64,986

Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep ................ 52

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals
184 Longwood Avenue. Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

E. F. SCHROEDER, D.V.M., Chief of Staff
R. H. SCHNEIDER, v.M.D., Asst. Chief
G. B. SCHNELLE, v.M.D.

T. O. MUNSON, v.M.D.
C. L. BLAKELY, v.M.D.
M. S. ARLEIN, D.V.M.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springﬁeld Branch

Telephone 4—7355
53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.

Veterinarians
A. R. EVANS, v.M.D. H. L. SMEAD, D.V.M.

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR DECEMBER
At 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

796
1,897
375

Cases entered in Hospital ........
Cases entered in Dispensary ......
Operations

......................

At Springﬁeld Branch, 53 Bliss Street

193
708
119

Cases entered in Hospital ........
Cases entered in Dispensary ......
Operations

At Attleboro Clinic, 3 Commonwealth Ave.

Cases entered .................... 81
Totals
Hospital cases Since opening, Mar.
1, 1915 ....................... 189,976
Dispensary Cases ............... 479,011
Total .............. 668,987

The Horses and Christmas

EDITOR’S NOTE: The following account
was delivered by Mrs. Roberta Green in
connection with her broadcast over Station
WEEI, at the recent Food Fair in Boston,
on December 23:

N talking with the people in the studio

I learned to my surprise that a great
many of them had never heard of that
ﬁne custom carried out each year by the
Massachusetts Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals. I mean the Christ-
mas tree for work—horses.

Back in 1916 a group of Boston busi-
ness men suggested to the President of
the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals that something be done at
Christmas time for the horses. Down in
Post Ofﬁce Square there is the George T.
Angell Memorial Fountain, where twenty
odd years ago a vastly greater number
of horses in that district were wont to
stop for a drink, and on the spot a
Christmas tree was erected and deco-
rated and then on the morning before
ChriStmas the drivers of horse-drawn
vehicles were invited to gather around
the tree. The horses were fed and the

Page 8 Z

men given hot coffee and doughnuts. It
seems to me that this ﬁne custom has a
two-fold object—it not only provides the
horses with a good meal and their drivers
with refreshment, but it centers atten-
tion on the act of kindness to animals.
Probably many of the drivers treat their
horses a little more kindly because of
having had their attention drawn to it
in this way.

I had an interesting talk with a repre-
sentative of the Society who told me
many details about the present method of
giving the Christmas party. I learned
that the number of work—horses in
greater Boston has dwindled to about
twelve hundred, due to the increase in
motor vehicles and that horse trafﬁc
through Post Ofﬁce Square has been so
greatly lessened that it is no longer
practical to erect the tree at the foun-
tain. In fact, in order to give the horses
their gift of a free Christmas dinner it’s
necessary to go to them rather than to
expect them to come to the tree.

And so the Christmas tree is erected
on a horse-drawn truck, which is ﬁttingly
decorated. More than two hundred indi—
vidual bags of feed are prepared. Each
bag contains four quarts of oats and
chopped carrots and apples—a well bal-
anced ration. The Christmas tree tour
is under the personal direction of the
Society’s agents and is centered near the
market district where, according to the
ﬁre laws horses must remain hitched to
wagons. Of course, during the holiday
rush there are long, long waits for the
wagons to be unloaded, and a nice crunchy
meal of oats, apples and carrots must be
appreciated by the tired animals—to say
nothing of how good the hot coffee and
doughnuts taste to the drivers.

Those who have a real love for horses
like to see this Christmas observance.
Indeed one gets a real thrill out of seeing
and knowing that there are still people
in the world who take time to do an act
of kindness like this to our friends the
work-horses.

Branches and Auxiliaries
MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Mass. S. P. C. A.—MRS.
Pres; MRS. THOS. H. CAS-

Taunton Branch of
HOWARD F. WOODWARD,
WELL, Sec.

Northampton Branch of Mass. S. P. C A.——MRS.
F. E. Dow, Pres; MISS JANE BIGELOW, Treas.

Great Barrington Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—
MRS. ROBERT MAGRUDER, Pres; MRS. DONALD WORTH-
INGTON, Treas.

Holyoke Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—MRS. AARON
C. BAGG, Pres; MRS. ROBERT NEWCOMB, Treas.

VVomen’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—Mas, EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres; MRS. WILLIAM E. UNDERWOOD, Treas.;
MRS. GEORGE D. COLPAS, Ch. Work Com. First Friday.

Springfield Branch Auxiliary—MRS. MORTON B.
MINER, Pres; MRS. HERBERT T. PAYNE, Treas. Second
Thursday.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary—MRS. EDITH WASH-
BURN CLARKE, Pres; MRS. JOHN HAMILTON CLARKE,
Treas.

Please remember. the Massachusetts
S. P. C. A. when making your will.

 




 

Jan.1941

  
  

 
 

,,. “V“‘n‘m'ﬂa'

  
   

- \
K\\\\\/
p" ’7) ~.

.3 \\" ; J
) ‘ l’

. uni
.{l/{J/l/Juaiuuu w} ‘ *“f .

‘ “. 1'- fonmﬂmUMP-mum‘“ "““ )1”!!th
o -'l l'

I
I ”WWW/Hm W"
\
A ‘ \ '-
,—‘\\\ —..

Lesson for the New Year
MARY AGNES COLVILLE

I teach my dog to be polite,

And always do the thing that’s right;
But I must watch my manners, too,
And tell myself: “Prince watches you,”
For if I’m rude, though just in fun,
His lessons may be all undone.

The Doctor’s Strange Animals '

ALFRED I. TOOKE

HE Doctor tried his hand at jumbling up the names

of various animals the other day, and here is the
result:

NOSE CHOIR R

7. PALM DOES CAR
CHIN HIS CALL 8.

CHEST A HE

SCALP TO E 9. HEART P N S
ARM IS ALL DO 10. LIVER NO SEW
LEG ZEALS 11. RIBS BAT

6301;5pr

TOE PANELS 12. SHIP AM POP OUT
Can you unjumble them and tell what animals they are?

Correct answers will be found on this page next month.

The World’s Youngest Fireman

NLY a triﬂe over two years of age, Baby Sandy,

star of the movie, “Fireman Save My Child,” is the
official mascot of the South Pasadena ﬁre department
which presented
her with a badge,
much to her de-
light. Her grand-
father, Raymond
Phares, has been
a ﬁreman with
that department
for years. Sandy
has been brought
up with two out—
standing lessons
—the love of ani-
mals and the fear
of ﬁre. She knows
that pets need
good care. Here
she is with her
fond companion,
“Rex,” who ac-
companies h e r
e v e r y where, in
the studio as well
as away from it.

BABY SANDY AND “REX”

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

hole for a bed,

   
 
 

.uuiuumﬂm‘

Wk

5

BFgﬂrgﬁ

  

.1 > .. r ‘_.__‘ ,A‘
/ A». w’ . 11‘? ‘
1" 0”” "ow-HP

‘ w' . { ‘ /
'A \ NIH}. M

u.
\

 

Mrs. Brown Bear and Family
DOROTHEA K.GOULD

MRS. BROWN BEAR tramped over the sparkling
snow. As she could not ﬁnd a thing to eat she
decided to search for a nice place to sleep through the
winter.

Finally she came upon a big tree that had been torn up
by the roots. Mrs. Brown Bear examined the hole that
h a d b e e n l e f t
where the roots
were pulled out,
and found it to
be just the right
Size.

The roots and
over—lapping
limbs made a neat
little roof, and in
this hole Mrs.
B r o w n B e a r
would be safe and
cozy.

M r s. B r o w n
B e a r l o o k e d
around to be sure
that none of her
forest neighbors
would see her en-
ter the hole. Then
s h e u s e d h e r
p a w s t o p u s h
leaves int 0 the

and crawled in.
Her fur coat was
thick and warm, and when the snow came down to cover
her up she was even warmer.

Mrs. Brown Bear slept all by herself until the end of
January. Then she woke up excitedly—and no wonder!
For there, snuggling against her long, brown fur, were
three baby bears.

The little cubs were very tiny and weighed only a few
ounces. They were almost naked, their eyes were closed,
and they were toothless. But that didn’t make any differ-
ence because they were all going to sleep for a while yet
anyway.

Six weeks later it was so warm and sunny outside that
Mrs. Brown Bear stepped out—of—doors with her babies.
She wanted them to see and feel the lovely warm sun, and
she wanted to show them how to ﬁnd something to eat.

The babies had little teeth now, their eyes were opened,
and they had some clothes on their backs.

Mrs. Brown Bear took care of the little ones all
through the summer. After that they were able to take
care of themselves.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Page 11,

The Mockingbird of Florida
A n n a F . F o r d

'O! bird of sunny southern clime,
Your melodies seem half divine,
A message from beyond the blue,
In variations ever new.

From out your slender, supple throat,
Flows many a liquid heavenly note,
ln-filling all the air around,

With waves of vibrant, glorious sound.

Your quiet coat of gray is seen,
An emblem of a soul serene,

Yet, soon you rise to maddening trill
With trembling ecstasy a-thrill.

Your brothers, of another clime,
Are not forgotten in my rhyme.
Each has his special song to sing,
As harbinger of lovely spring.

One calls for rain, to bring him food

And then proclaims that "God is good.”

One scolds, one mourns, one says ”All's
well.”

Each has his little tale to tell.

These cheery messengers of love,
All lift our minds and hearts above,
And strike a kindred spark in man
As nature’s music ever can.

But under Southern skies today
My song is not of ”far away,”
But, of the kindly troubadour,
Partaking of my daily store.

The mockingbird, whose wondrous throat
Attunes itself to every note,

And to our eager senses- brings

A harp that plays a thousand strings.

A New Animal

CHARLES R. DUTTON

A few months ago it was announced
that ornithologists had discovered two
new birds, (Our Dumb Animals, April,
1940) and now from Harvard University
comes the announcement that a new ani-
mal has joined our list of known mam-
mals. This recently discovered creature
is a species of wild ox and is found-in
the forests of Indo—China. It is a distant

relative of our present-day domesticated
cow.

The new animals are called by the
name of “koupreys” and are the ﬁrst new

genus of large, living mammals to be
discovered since 1900.

In his monograph on the subject,
Harold J. Coolidge, Jr., Harvard’s assist-
ant curator of mammals, declares that
there are still about 1,000 of the kou-
preys still roaming in Indo—China but
they are in danger of total extinction
unless immediate steps for their preser-
vation are taken.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

J an. 191;]

Robins in January
MARIE E. KOLZ

OBINS to cheer
Rome in January!

To a man facing a
bli z z a r d, that seems
absurd. With a bitterly
cold wind whizzing
along, driving snow piti-
lessly against each pass-
erby, what hope would
there be for a robin’s
surviving the storm?

With s n o w entering
every crevice and being
whirled around this way
and that until the most
sheltered nooks are cov-
ered with a snowy man—
tle, there is no place for
a robin to live. How-
ever, at that time the
robins are doing their
daily bit of cheering and
they would be right
there in the midst of the
storm if they could.

Where are the robins
in January, and whom
are they cheering? They
linger as long as they dare in parts of
the country where the winters are severe.
Then, knowing they must migrate, away
they ﬂy to a place with an open winter,
a place where they can ﬁnd food and
whatever shelter they need.

In California and other parts of the
United States that have a semi-tropical
climate, robins are seen by the thousands
in January and other winter months.
They add to the beauty of life and its
happiness wherever they go for they are
one of the most charming of man’s feath-
ered friends and one of the most cheerful.

How happy is the robin’s song of joy!
He puts such a cheery note into his song
that it ﬁnds a responding echo in the
hearts of his human friends, brightening
their day and each deed thereof. And
the robin’s friends are legion.

Feeling secure in the friendship of
man, robins go about their business con-
tentedly although people may be passing
by a few feet away. How proudly a
robin walks over a newly sprinkled lawn
with his eyes cocked for the welcoming
sight of a fat, juicy worm! Soon his
sharp eyes spy what he is looking for
and he drives his bill far down, at the
same time bracing himself for a long,
hard pull if necessary.

Usually after a few hard tugs, the
earthworm is loosened and the robin is
happy in his conquest. During nesting
time, away he ﬂies to his home to feed
the hungry babies there. That duty done,
back he goes to secure more food, for
much is needed by that little family, of
which he is justly proud.

 

U. S. Bureau, Biological Survey

ROBINS ENJOYING FOOD AND DRINK

The brave robin is willing to give his
life in protecting his family if necessary.
Fortunately most people—men, women,
and children—love the robins, so never
harm them and will not tolerate anyone
else’s doing so. Robins quickly recognize
their human friends and show deep ap-
preciation of them through their socia-
bility and trust.

How worthy these feathered creatures
are of our protection and love. They are
man’s true friends, especially so the
farmer’s, and repay him many times over
for the few cherries or other fruit they
eat. Every year robins destroy thousands
of insects that are injurious to ﬁeld
crops, gardens and ﬂowers.

When spring arrives, the robins hurry
back to the places where they spent the
warmer weather the year before. What
a thrill it is to the people there when
they hear the ﬁrst robin of spring! J oy-
fully the word is passed around, “There
is a robin! Spring is here at last!”

Some robins arrive so early that a
snow storm may come after they make
their appearance. What to do! Food is
covered! It is cold, bitterly cold! Friends
of the cheery birds should come to their
rescue, for “A friend in need is a friend
indeed!” Those chilly feathered friends
are truly friends in need during the days
of the storm.

Scatter some food for the hungry little
birds. They will appreciate it, and, with
food to nourish them, they can stand the
cold quite well. How joyfully and thank-
fully the robins will come to the table

 

 




 

 

June, 1941

The Weaning

Roena Burger

I sing you a song of the little red calf—
The little red calf in the young spring lane
Longingly nudging the pasture bars

Then wishfully following back again.

Desolate, barren to him the yard—

No welcoming low, no broad warm flank;
Only the wind and the emptiness

And a chill pale sun across his back.

There in the angle of barn and shed

He shivers and droops through the long-
houred day,

Patiently waiting for bars to lower

And the plodding cattle to come his way.

But do not laugh at the little red calf
Though ridiculously sad he appears to be;
For this is the closing of Childhood's page
That comes to beast as it comes to man:
The weaning, the fearing, the questing time,
The wondering—after this, what then?

The Battle Horse of Yorktown

ETHEL MANTER

HEN General Cornwallis of Eng-

land surrendered his army in 1783,
marking the close of the American
Revolution, he confronted not only a man
who stood ﬁre well, but also a splendid
horse, “Nelson,” Washington’s tireless
companion-in-war.

The ﬁrst time Washington rode Nel-
son, the horse sensed immediately that
here was a skilled rider, a person who
loved to feel a horse under him, and one
who would respect a delicate mouth. The
General tried him out in a rapid walk,
then a long swinging trot, and ﬁnally a
stretching gallop. The white—faced and
white—stockinged chestnut did not dis-
appoint him.

A great affection sprang up between
master and mount, the tall animal carry-
ing the large-boned rider with ease,
General Washington used another ﬁne
horse, “Blueskin,” for relief of Nelson
during the war, but only in minor en-
gagements. This horse never became
accustomed to the roar of cannons and
the whistle of bullets. Nelson, as bold
and steady as the man he worshipped,
did not ﬂinch on the ﬁeld of battle.

After the victory of Yorktown, Wash-
ington forbade that Nelson should ever
again feel the weight of a saddle. Mus—
tered out of service with honor, the war
steed’s ﬁnal years of life were passed in
luxury at Mt. Vernon. Every morning
Washington rose early, one of his ﬁrst
duties before sunrise being to inspect
the stables. On his rounds he never
neglected to include a visit to the aging
horse that came so promptly upon call.
The daily caress between true horseman
and thoroughbred continued up until
Nelson’s death.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 113

How London’s Animals Behave Under Fire
VINC E N T EDWARDS

N OT since the days of Dick Whit-

tington have cats been more prized

in London than they are at present.
Their only rivals in affection are dogs.
The fact is, the English capital is paying
dearly, in the increase of rats and mice,
for something it did several months ago,
and the two animals which make war on
these pests are valued as never before.

At the outbreak of the present war
Londoners expected the savage air at-
tacks to maim and cripple living crea—
tures everywhere in the city. In order to
spare their pets this suffering, over
750,000 cats and dogs were done away
with. This act, while carried out in a
spirit of humanity, was as needless as
it was unfortunate in its consequences.
Rodents have been spreading so rapidly
lately that both the food supply and the
community’s health are threatened. It
is no wonder that grown—ups are just as
pleased as their children over the births
of kittens and pups these days, and
such animals have won their way into all
Londoners’ hearts.

 

Britlsh Comblne

INSPECTOR QUIGLEY OF THE ROYAL S. P. C. A.
RESCUED MANY ANIMALS FROM BOMBED

Although the Nazi raids have brought
sad casualties in many quarters, the loss
of life has not been anything like what
was anticipated. Stolid Londoners, them—
selves unmoved and undaunted by the
most savage bombing, cannot get over
how calm most domestic animals are at
such times. It is claimed that dogs and
cats have even learned to distinguish be-

. tween the warning siren and the all-clear

signal. Many are seen running to the
shelters when the bombs start falling,
and trotting out again when the raid is
over. In some cases they have sensed the
presence of planes before human beings
were aware of it.

The behavior of animals under the
aerial blitzkrieg oﬁers some curious con—
trasts. While most of the cats and dogs
remain no more affected than their mas-
ters and mistresses, others grow restless
and worried and even hysterical. But,
happily, this number is very much in the
minority.

Many persons must have been sur-
prised when Professor Julian Huxley,
curator of the London
Zoo, recently told that
most species of birds have
grown used to the heavy
explosions. Last fall, when
Hitler’s all—out air attack
was in progress, the star—
lings and black-headed
gulls came back to the
city as usual, never heed-
ing the rain of death. The
smallest birds still cower
at the sight of airplanes,
which they probably mis—
take for hawks, but rob—
ins and swallows do not
mind them in the least.
Of all curious reactions,
that of parrots seems the
oddest. One is said to have
learned t o imitate th e
sirens, another fell into a
deep mood of melancholy
during an air raid, and a
third was so upset that it
lost its powers of speech
for weeks afterward.

Sometimes animals “act
up” under heavy bombing
quite differently t h a n
most people would expect.
When bombs dropped on
or near their homes in
the zoo, high-strung gi—
raffes and antelopes be—
trayed little concern. But
the raids have so dis—
turbed that easy—going
beast, the cow, that its
milk has fallen off in qual-

BUILDINGS IN A WEST COUNTRY TOWN itY-

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Humane Films
For Rent or Sale
THE BELL OF ATRI

illustrating Longfellow’s poem,
and
IN BEHALF OF ANIMALS

showing the practical work of the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A. and the
Angell Animal Hospital.

Address
Secretary, 180 Longwood Ave.
Boston

 

 

 

 

 

NEMA

woRM
CAPSULES

    

Use Nema Capsules to remove
large roundworms and hook-
worms. Effective—Dependable.
Send for free Nema booklet No. 652
Write to Animal Industry Dept , Desk N581)
PARKE, DAVIS & C0.. DETROIT, MICH.

Drug Stores Sell Parke-Dams Products

i’ Free Booklet

 

 

 

Compliments of
GALLUP and HADLEY

Attorneys and Counsellors-at-Law

DANA T. GALLUP 6 BEACON s'r..
EDWIN W. HADLEY BOSTON. MASS.

 

 

 

 

 

 

NEW ENGLAND ANTI-GAMBLING
ASSOCIATION. INC.
6 BEACON ST.. BOSTON, MASS.
“We compliment the M. S. P. C. A. on its

noble work to prevent cruelty to racing
animals.”

EDWIN W. HADLEY, President

 

 

 

 

50 AP Ann
“NINE“

long known for help in soothing and
rehevmg the itching irritation of

”eczema

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1832

J. s. WATERMAN & SONS, Inc.
linheriakera

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE

City and out-of—town service

 

 

 

 

 

Iiumane literature and

 

of Mercy Supplies

for Humane Sunday, April 20,1941
and Be Kind to Animals Week, April 21-26

For sale by the American Humane Education Society and the Massachusetts 5. P. C. A.

1

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

()ur Dumb Animals, 1940, bound volume $1.00
Our Dumb Animals, 1936, 1937, and 1039

bound volume, each .................. .75
Colored Posters, 17 X 28‘ inches, attrac-

tive pictures and verses, six in set .. 1.00

Colored Posters, 17 x 22 inches, eight in
the set ................ 5 cts. each; eight for 35 cts.
Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 61/8 x 3% $0.50 per 100

About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth ........... 50 cts.
The Horse—Treatment of Sores, etc ...$0 60 per 100
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 5 ........ .50 “ “

The Horse’s Prayer .................... .30 “ “

HOW to Treat a Horse .................. .50 “ "

The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow .. .50 “
About the Dog

Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 ........ small, 50 cts.

Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free

Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider Free

Eulogy 011 the Dog, by Vest, post-card—$1.00 per 100
The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease .60 “ ”

Suggestions for Feeding Dogs .......... 2.00 “ “
Important Advice on Feeding the Dog

and the Cat — A Supplement by Dr.

Rudolph H. Schneider ................ 1.00 “ "
Humane Education Leaflets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ “
What the Chained Dog Says ............ 50 “ "
The Story of Barry ..................... .30 “ "

“Don” and His Boy Scout Friends, J. P.

Lyons ................................. 50 “ "
Road Accidents to Dogs, 4 pp. ......... Free
Boots Day, play. for two boys and three

girls ..................... 3 cts. each, five for 10 cts.

About the Bird
The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus. ........ cloth, $0.45
Trial of the Birds, play, 3 cts. ea.; 12 for

25 cts. ................................ $2.00 per 100
Humane Education Leaflets, Nos. 1 and 2 .50 “ “
How the Birds Help the Farmer ........ .50 “ “
The Air—Gun and the Birds ............. .50 “ “
The Care of Caged Canaries ........... .30 “ "

About the Cat

The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease.$0.60 per 100

The Cat in Literature ................. .50 “

Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ...... .50 ‘ "
Mollie Whitefoot’s Vacation ............ .50 “ “
"The Beggar Cat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. .50 “ “

About Other Animals

The Strike at Shane’s cloth, 30 cts . paper,7cts.
For I’ity’s Sake ....................... paper, 5 cts.
The Great Cruelty Again, Dr. Rowley” Free

First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp. $1. 00 per100
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. .50 “
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. 1.00 “ “
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 6, Animals .50 “ “

W'ays of Kindness ...................... .50 “ "
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 7, Farm

Animals ............................... .50 " "
A Wise Fish ............................ .50 “ “
Care of Rabbits ......................... .30 “ "
Hints on the Care of Cows ............ .50 “ "
Directions for the Care of Swine ...... 1.00 “ “
Professor Frog’s Lecture, 8 pp. ........ .75 “ "
Why the Toad is so Useful ............ .30 “ "

Jewish and Gentile Methods of Slaugh-
tering, illus.
Vivisection—The
People, illus.

.................. each, 15 cts.
Opinions of Famous
..................... each, 20 cts.

Please enclose remittance

The Jack London Club

Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
that is the Jack London Club .......... $0.30 per 100
Foreword from ”Michael Brother of Jerry” .30 “ “
Films, Fakes and Facts, Helen Trevelyan

pp. ..................................
Do Wild Animals Prefer Captivity? Helen

Trevelyan, 4 pp. ...................... .50 " “
Trained Animals — Cruelty Disguised,

Helen Trevelyan, 4 pp. ................ .50 ‘ ‘

Humane Education
The Animal or the Child, Dr. Rowley... Free
Humane Education, An Activity of the

National Congress of Parents and

Teachers, by Dr. Francis H. Rowley Free
The Relation of the Home to Character

Formation, Dr. Francis H. Rowley Free
Humane Education and Spiritual Values,

Dr. Rowley ........................... Free
For Parents and Teachers, Plan of Work Free
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley .......... Free
The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools

96 pp. ................. 12 cents each; ten for $1.00
Care and Kindness for Our Animal

Friends. 32 pp., paper cove-rs, many

illus. .................. 10 cts. each; twelve for $1.00
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-

cation, 32 pp. ........................ each. 10 cts.
An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F'.

Gilbert, 48 pp. For first and second

grades ................................ each 10 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ........ each 25 cts.
The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

Rowley ............................... cloth, 35 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use) Sarah J. Eddy .......... cloth, $1.00

The B—K—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 25c.
"And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,”

play ........................ 3 cts. each; ten for 25c.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play ......

3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.

Humane Sunday ..................... 1c. each

I’ll Never Hunt Again, play 3 cts. each; five for 10 cts.

The Best Gift, play ........ 2 cts. each; six for 10 cts.

Humane Exercises ...................... $1.50 per 100

Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.
Rowley, short radio address, 2cts. each; .50
Humane Education, What to Teach and
How to Teach It ...................... .50 “ “
Outlines of Study in Humane Education 1.50 “
Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty .. .50

A Talk with the Teacher ................ .50 “ “
Our Love for Animals, a short radio

address ..................... 2 cts. each; 1.00 “ "
Bookmark, with “A Humane Prayer” . 1.00 “ "
A Festival of Tender Mercies .......... .50 “ "
Need of Humane Education Societies

and Methods of Forming Them ....... .50 “ "
How to Organize a Society for the

Protection of Animals ................ .50 “ "
Incidents about Animals, by Geo. T.

Angell ................................ $1. 00 per 100

Twenty Years of Be Kind to Animals
Week, Guy Richardson . . .3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.

Band of Mercy

“Be Kind to Animals Buttons,” three
styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So-
ciety, or S. P. C. A. ................ $1.00 per 100
Buttons—White star on blue ground with
gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00 “ "

Badges, gold finish, large, 10 cts., small 5cts.
“Band of Mercy” pennant ............ 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.

J. Eddy ............................... 50 cts.
Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words

only) ................................. $3.00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ...... .50 “ "
How to Form Bands of Mercy .......... .50 “ “
Does it Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy 30 “ ‘

with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 126

our most useful birds; the results of
these studies have been published and
are available to all of us, consequently
there is little excuse for anyone being
ignorant of the facts and destroying the
useful species. It often has been stated
that the only fair and safe way to deal
with destructive hawks is to destroy only
those actually caught doing harm and to
let the rest alone. Were this injunction
followed large numbers of useful hawks
would be saved each year to do the good
work for which they are ﬁtted.

Mockingbird Manners

SUE DAVIDSON

Did you ever know a mockingbird to
order its meals? One living on our place
did that very thing. It came about in
this manner:

This mockingbird had spent all of its
life near the house. The back of one of
the chairs on the front porch and a
clothesline near the back door were
looked upon as its especial property.

We have two cats, which are fed on
the back steps. Now, when the weather
turned cold, the bird decided to eat with
the cats. Every time they were fed it
hopped into the dish and secured its
share of the crumbs. The cats seemed to
like the bird and never bothered it, but
we were always afraid they would harm
it, and at ﬁrst we tried to shoo it away
from the dish. It paid no attention to us,
and would not touch the bread we threw
on the ground for it, but persisted in
eating with the cats.

One morning, a terrible squawking
sent us to the back porch for we were
sure the cats had the mockingbird, but
the cats were nowhere around. The bird
was perched upon the line. It would bob
up and down, and then ﬂy into the air,
uttering the worst sounds that could
possibly come from a bird’s throat. It
acted like a small child having a tantrum.
We could not imagine what was the
matter with it until one of us noticed
the cats’ dish was empty. Bread was put
into it, and the bird ﬂew to the step.
It ate until it could hold no more. Then
it ﬂew back to the clothesline where it
sang a beautiful “thank you.”

And the mockingbird ordered its
meals in this way all the rest of the
winter.

Bats are beneﬁcial because they de-
vour untold quantities of insects. One
specimen has been known to consume
3,750 mosquitoes in a single night’s for—
age. This country’s bats are insectivo-
rous.

Just how long our familiar friend, the
crow, lives no one seems exactly to know,
but there died this year in the Arnold
Arboretum of Boston an albino crow
which had been a continuous resident
for thirty-nine years.

OUR DUMBANIMALS

Our Friend the Owl

JASPER B. SINCLAIR

HEN it comes to char—

acter references, the owl
must be just a little confused by
varying human opinions.

Through many centuries of
literature and folklore a lot of
people have considered the owl
to be a “wise old bird.” Through
those same centuries others have
looked upon the owl as a bird of
superstition and ill-omen.

The ancient Greeks and Ro—
mans were perhaps the ﬁrst to
pay tribute to the sagacity of
the owl. Theyassociated it in
mythology with Minerva, the
goddess of wisdom.

Ever since those far days,
poets and prose writers have
penned their tributes to the high
I. Q. rating of the owl. They
have even made this feathered
creature a synonym for human
intelligence by adding to our
daily speech a half dozen famil-
iar sayings along that line.

In spite of all these friendly
tributes, though, the owl has also
been the subject of some com-

July, 191,1

 

 

YOUNG SCREECH OWL
This bird is a friend, not a foe

 

ments that were anything but
friendly in tone.

Even in this day and age the owl is
still looked upon with superstition and
misgivings by many people. There are
several reasons for this attitude.

The ﬁrst is the silent ﬂight of the owl,
one of the most noiseless of all our
winged travelers. He arrives and departs
without warning of any sort. He is one
of the few birds that can move his wings
without that familiar whirring sound
common to the ﬂight of most creatures
of the air.

Anyone will admit that it is rather
startling to have an owl ﬂy close along-
side on a dark night, and ﬁrst make its
presence known by a prolonged and
somewhat derisive hoot. That is one rea-
son a lot of people dislike the owl.

In ancient times the owl came into dis-
repute because of its persistent habit of
shunning sunlight. He is a bird of dark-
ness, a traveler in the night. All night
birds were once looked upon with much
disfavor.

The Greeks, unlike other ancient
peoples, considered the appearance of an
owl as a token of good luck. As a result,
they stamped its image on their coins.

Regardless of your personal opinions,
the owl is one of the best friends the
farmer has among all the birds. He de-
vours more insects harmful to crops
than almost any other bird. He also
preys upon destructive rodents.

The Owl
(In the Florida Woods at Night)

Christine

When the day is done and darkness falls
Against the massive forest walls,

And all the world is big and black

Except a little lighted track

The headlight makes along the ground

As wheels are turning round and round,
An owl from somewhere calls to you,
“Wha-hoo, hoo-hoo, wha-hoo, hoo-hoo.”

Park Hankinson

The owl is wise, I’ve heard folks say,
And keeps his silence through the day.
But in the darkness of the night

He steeps your soul in Stygian fright
With words no human ever used;

With words for centuries abused;

But what this means I wish I knew,
”Wha-hoo, hoo-hoo, wha-hoo, hoo-hoo."

That celebrated Englishman, Dean
Inge, Dean of St. Paul’s, London, said
some years ago, “The last century pro-
duced a discovery nearly as important
for ethics as that of the unity of man—
kind. Darwin and his fellow-workers
proved that all life in the world springs
from one root and that the lower animals
are literally our distant cousins.”

He also said that we had no reason to
be ashamed of the relationship. It seems
to me he might also have said that per-
haps the animals might not feel so proud
of the relationship.

 

 

 




TO ANIM

AL

~

FOR THE P EVEN

.

 

m
N

 

0F

 

C

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

        

 

PRIZE-WINNING PHOTOGRAPH IN RECENT CONTEST (See page 164)

 

/

I Len! I‘lt\ [ r.!‘.|.l)\.ls£lu

53mm.”

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"’ ' ' "‘ ‘— N

W
A

R D
NIM

SEPTEMBER 19

B
S“

.‘
‘

41

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

1'; Aauﬁikké- __.;. . . ‘

f‘ i

 

 

Page 18

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Jan. 1941

Bands of Mercy or Junior Humane Leagues

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

rll‘iHE ﬁrst juvenile organ-
ization in this country

pledging children to kind-
ness to animals was founded by
Geo. T. Angell and the Rev.
Thomas Timmins in Boston,
Massachusetts, on July 28,
1882. Since then no less than
254,870 units of the Band of
Mercy have been organized and
reported to the office of the
Societies which Mr. Angell
founded. They are principally
in elementary schools, but may
consist of any group of thirty
or more, regardless of age, who
are Willing to take this simple

PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all
living creatures and try to
protect them from cruel usage.

Various Humane Societies
throughout the country have on
their staff a director of Hu-
mane Education whose chief
duty is to visit schools, talk on
kindness to animals, and help
teachers to organize the juve—
nile groups, under whatever
name they may choose. To such
groups, when properly reported,
the American Humane Educa—
tion Society of Boston will send
a supply of free literature and
a gilt badge for the president.
“See inside front cover for prices

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

 

“LOVE ME, LOVE MY DOG”

E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer

of literature and other Band of
Mercy supplies.

The American Humane Edu-
cation Society has at present
ten ﬁeld workers in as many
different states, who, among
other activities, engage in this
work. The following report
include-s new Bands of Mercy,
or Junior Humane Leagues,
organized by these and other
workers in the month of No-
vember.

NEW BANDS (TF MERCY

One thousand, four hundred
and seventy—ﬁve new Bands of
Mercy were reported during

November. These were dis—
tributed as follows:
Texas .................. 287
Rhode Island . . . ........ 223
Georgia ....... l ......... 217
Pennsylvania . . . . . ...... 180
Illinois ................ 166:
Massachusetts .......... 115
Maine ................. 105
South Carolina . ....... 90
Florida ............... 49
Virginia ....... . , , . . . 33
Vermont . . . . . .......... 6
Wisconsin .............. 3
Tennessee .............. 1
Total number Bands of

Mercy organized by Parent-
American Society, 254,870.

 

State-Wide Humane Poster Contest for Pupils

GAIN this year, the Massachusetts
A Society for the Prevention of

Cruelty to Animals will conduct a
Humane Poster Contest open to pupils in
grammar grades above the third, and in
junior high and high schools—both pub-
lic and parochial, in Massachusetts only.
It will close positively on March 29, 1941.
Results will be announced during Be
Kind to Animals Week, April 21-26, when
many of the best of the posters will be
exhibited in a convenient place in Boston
to be announced later.

The Society offers attractive new bronze
medals, with blue ribbon, to be awarded
as ﬁrst prizes; medals with red ribbon as
second prizes; and annual subscriptions
to Our Dumb Animals for honorable
mentions. Prizes will be distributed lib-
erally in all competing schools. Last sea-
son 7,603 posters were entered by pupils
from 482 schools, in 165 cities and towns,
and 977 ﬁrst awards were made, 1,128
second, and 1,498 honorable mentions. It

is hoped that an even larger number of
pupils may enter posters this year.

THE FOLLOWING RULES ARE IM-
PORTANT:

1. N o more than ﬁve posters may be
submitted from one room and one only
from each pupil, teachers to make the
selection. Schools and, so far as possible,
grades, will be judged independently of
each other, with, however, a certain
standard being kept in mind.

2. Pencil or crayon, pen and ink, cut-
out paper (original, not magazine covers,
or pictures) silhouette, water colors or
charcoal may be used. Color adds greatly
to the effectiveness.

3. Drawings, on light cardboard or

heavy paper, should be not less than
12 x 18 inches, nor more: than 18 x 24
Inches, and should be shipped ﬂat
(never rolled), all charges prepaid, to
reach the Massachusetts S. P. C. A. not
later than March 29, 1941.

4. NOTE CAREFULLY: In the upper
right-hand corner, on the back of each
poster, must be written legibly, the con—
testant’s name, WITH FULL HOME
ADDRESS, (be sure to give street and
number), also number of the grade,
name and address of the school, and name
of teacher. Use white ink, or paste a
white slip with name and address when
dark cardboard or paper is used.

5. All posters receiving awards be-
come the property of the Society. Other
posters will be returned only if request
is made at time of sending and return
postage enclosed, or arrangements made
to call.

6. ADDRESS ALL POSTERS
PLAINLY, ALL CHARGES PREPAID,
to SECRETARY, MASSACHUSETTS
S. P. C. A., 180 LONGWOOD AVENUE,
BOSTON, to reach this office by March
29, 1941, at the latest.

 




 

 

Jan.1941

most eccentric fashion he was tackling
the food, that I cried with certainty,
“the white-winged crossbill.” For two or
three days he stayed with us, then disap-
peared as suddenly as he had come, leav—
ing us a happy memory of our passing
guest from the northern pines.

The following winter was the winter
of the purple ﬁnch invasion. And an in-
vasion it was, as we hustled out sun-
ﬂower seeds in quantity as we endeavored
to keep up with our hosts of rosy-red
banqueters. My ﬂock numbered twenty—
ﬁve but a bird-loving friend down the
valley counted hers at a hundred and
ﬁfty. For weeks they stayed on and were
quite the talk of the town.

Last winter, on New Year’s Day, I
looked out and saw a bird which I
thought at ﬁrst glance the downy wood-
pecker, Whacking away at the big piece
of suet. But then on second glance I saw
I was wrong, for while he had the tip of
red, and had back white ﬂecked, he was
brownish rather than black with a red
patch under his throat and a yellowish
breast. Yes, the yellow-breasted sap-
sucker and the ﬁrst I had ever seen on
our Connecticut hilltop. A great feeder
he proved, often clinging to the suet for
twenty minutes at a stretch and resting,
it seemed, between his strong jabs at the
suet. For several weeks he remained and
though we were warned that he was not
a desirable guest since he had the repu-
tation of boring into the pines for sap,
not once did we spy him at it. Perhaps
he decided that suet was not only pref—
erable but easier to get.

Last year also the evening grosbeaks
came to our village but while a neighbor
a few houses from ours had them regu-
larly at her window feeding-station, they
did not come up the hill to ours.

So this fall when I lay in my supply of
food for the winter guests, I shall won—
der what newcomer will come ﬂying in
on the wings of the north wind. And
when he arrives, I shall be ready. Will
you?

One can seldom judge character by
appearances. The hippopotamus is a
member of the pig tribe. In fact, hippo
lard can be made, and is generally of ﬁne
quality. The meat of the beast, however,
is said to resemble beef more than it
does pork. The large appetite of the pig
seems to run in the family, nevertheless.
A large hippopotamus has a stomach
over ten feet long. And into this organ
will ﬁt six bushels of food.

A speaker was irritated by the noise
made by the assemblage. “Silence!” he
roared. “I want this hall to be so still
you can hear a pin drop.” There was a
deadly quiet for a moment; then an
irrepressible youth piped up: “Let ’er
dropf’

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Whistling Marmot

HE marmots comprise a large group

of animals which includes the prairie-
dogs, the pocket gophers, the woodchucks
or groundhogs, so well known on our
New England farms, and others of the
squirrel and rabbit families.

 

WHISTLING MARMOT

By C. A. Musgrave, Seattle, Wash.
Prize—Winner in recent contest of
Our Dumb Animals

The marmot, shown above, derives his
ﬁrst name from the shrill whistle which
is a cry of alarm that he sounds when
danger is near or approaching. This
signal is caught by other members of the
colony and repeated. All are put on guard
and are prepared to scurry to their bur-
rows well ahead of their enemies.

When standing upright the “whistler”
is about thirty inches tall. The home of
the marmots is west of the Rockies and

covers a large portion of southern Can-
ada.

The Elephant’s Antenna

The elephant’s trunk is not only his
greatest asset in his search for food but
it is also his most formidable weapon.
Yet, in spite of this, the appendage is so
delicately formed and so sensitively bal-
anced that it also acts as a modiﬁed “an-
tenna” through which he receives many
impressions, such as the approach of an
enemy or the propinquity of a mate. It
has been estimated that there are ap-
proximately forty thousand muscles in
the elephant’s trunk; almost as many
as there are in the entire remainder of
his huge bulk.

Page 17

Old Joe

Edwin Carlile Litsey

He’s just a horse, but he helped to drag
The mortgage off my farm.

Now that he’s old and growing weak,
I’ll keep him safe from harm.

Can I' forget those blistering hours
He toiled with panting breath?
Can I forget those shoulder scars?
He'll wear them till his death.

He gave to me his very life,
I gave him food and drink.

01" the bargain made between us two
I got the best, I think.

Now with no shoes upon his feet,
His harness laid away;

Old Joe has nothing else to do
But rest, and munch his bay.

The First Draft Horses

Medieval knighthood and the age of
chivalry were largely responsible for the
huge European draft horses in use to-
day. An armored knight, together with
the trappings of his steed, weighed be-
tween three and four hundred pounds.
This was too great a load for the average
horse of that day which had been bred
for lightness and speed. Horse-breeders,
therefore, turned their aim to build size
and weight at the sacriﬁce of speed.
With the invention of gunpowder, knight—
hood ceased, and the horses were put to
the more practical uses of agriculture
and commerce. T. R. B.

Back Together

Out in Republic, Washington, a four-
teen—year-old boy named Larry Windsor,
owns a dog named “Trixie,” says Dog
News. '

Trixie is a great rat dog. Recently she
and Larry were down in the freight
yards, when suddenly Trixie spied a rat.
She made a dash for it and the rat leaped
into a freight car. Trixie leaped after it
and at that very instant, out pulled the
freight car.

Trixie rode all the way to New York
before anybody discovered her. By that
time her young owner had sent out some
SOS’s to the Railroad Company. The con-
signee of the freight shipment—a dog
lover—was interested in the story, took
the dog and then wired Larry the money
to ﬂy to New York andpick her up and
take her home.

After Christmas save your tree and
place it in a sheltered spot for the use of
the birds. Bits of suet, raisins, nuts,
popcorn, and other such tid-bits attached
to the tree, with cracked corn, crumbs,
etc., scattered beneath, will insure the
patronage of feathered friends through-
out the winter.

 

 




 

 

July, 1941

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Some Humane Hints to Beneﬁt Animals
HENRY H.GRAHAM

ANY travelers, campers and
M others are interested in wild life.

Most of them adore animals and
birds. Yet they sometimes unwittingly
inﬂict hardship and actual suffering on
the wild creatures. Though guided by the
best of intentions they do things that
should be avoided.

Young fawns and bear cubs are cute,
attracting'the attention of all who see
them. Yet sometimes admirers pick up
the little fellows in the absence of their
mothers and even transport them to
camp‘ to) be petted by others. Even when
the little ones are returned to the exact
spot‘where they were found this is a
bad practice. The mother deer or bear,
as they case may be, goes back to the
place Where she'l‘ast saw her baby. When

the latter is nowhere around the mother -

is very apt to leave the spot fore-good
and there Will be no one to care for the
young animal which is returned. It,
therefore, becomes a prey for coyotes or
cougars. Young animals need a mother’s
care for. awhile. Thrbwn on their own‘re—
sources they seldom last long. They
should be admired but not handled.

Domestic animals, too,~,,.ar,e, not" always ..

well treated even though their masters
have only the kindest intentions. Some-
times dogs and cats are locked alone in
autOmobiles on hot summer days with-
out even one window down to admit
fresh air.

One August day when the tempera-
ture reached 105 degrees I saw a dog in
a car parked on a city street. All win-
dows were up. The interior resembled
an oven or must have because my own
machine was beastly hot. I was about to
summon an ofﬁcer in an effort to lower
a window and make the dog more com-
fortable when the driver appeared. I

spoke to him about the matter and he

_ said “Why, I had no idea my beloved dog

would suffer. Had simply never thought
about it. Thanks, mister. In the future
I’ll leave him in the shade at home when
I have business downtown. I think the
world of him and wouldn’t harm him for
anything.”

.It was just thoughtlessness, of course,
but that did not ease the dog’s suffer-
ings. Should all of us not make it a point
to. help animals by warning their mas-
ters against mistreatment of all kinds?
By so doing we can make it a happier
world for our dumb creatures. . '

Snug, warm, dry. shelters are necessary
if. animals are to remain healthy. Many
people use thespace beneath their back
porches as kennels. Yet such places are
often very unsatisfactory. Water seeps
through cracks during storms, rendering
the interior dank and musty. If theSe
places are used as homes for dogs or
cats they shouldvbe put in good condi-
tion. It is better to have a separate build—
ing for a beloved pet.

Do you ever turn away a stray cat or
dog that comes to your back steps to be
fed? I don’t. I feed them and ﬁnd good
homes for them. Seldom have I experi—
enced difﬁculty in placing animals. And
somehow it makes a fellow feel good
down deep when he befriends such needy
creatures. Let us all show the same re—
gard for unknown felines and canines
that we would expect other people to
show our own under similar circum-
stances.

Our readers are urged to clip from
“Our Dumb Animals” various articles
and request local editors to republish.
Such copies will be made good by us
upon application.

Page 127

Reason
Beatrice Krongold

No desire for pretty clothes,

Or the noise of crowded places;
Her interest lies in wooded glades,
And the wonder in life's faces.
The little things are things she likes:
The laughing brook; the mossy log;
She finds such joy in little things;
Because she’s wise—my little dog.

Please remember’the Massachusetts

‘ S. P. C. A. when making your will.

Pan-Handling Pelicans
BLAIR CHAMBERLIN

UE to the worst shortage‘of' ﬁsh in
recent years, pelicans who make
their homes in the vicinity of Monterey,
California, have lately been suffering

_ from hunger. The situation has become

so". acute that large numbers of the birds
have been washed up on the beach, ap-
parently having died from starvation.

Brown pelicans have never shown the .
intense fear of humans displayed by the
majority of most wild birds, and their
increasing hunger has made them bolder
than ever. Fish dealers on Fisherman’s
Wharf at Monterey tell of one gray—
headed old pelican who stalked around
the ﬁsh sheds until someone took pity on
him and threw him some ﬁsh. Disposing
of the free lunch, he flew away to return
a few minutes later with the rest of the
local pelican colony, and they too started
pan-handling among the ﬁsh—packing
sheds that dot the wharf.

So far the pelican picket line has met
with considerable success. There are few
people who can resist the pleading stare
of a hungry pelican, and the ﬁshermen
have been generous in providing free
meals for the solemn-looking birds.

 

HUNGRY PELICANS ON FISHERMAN’S

WHARF, MONTEREY, CALIFORNIA

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

July, 191,1

When Summer is on the Hills

Judy Van der Veer

I shall remember this

When summer is on the hills,
I shall think how the white
Water roars and spills.

There is no other sound—
No wind, no bird song,
Only the leaping water
Foaming and strong.

Somewhere coyotes listen,
Somewhere the rain-wet deer
Wonder at the many sounds
01‘ water I also hear;

And wondering remember
The sweet pools they knew
Quiet as sky, reflecting
The sky’s blue.

It is strange to think ever

Of silence on these hills

Where over the smooth dark stone
White water spills.

Horse Not Forgotten

Contrary to general opinion, the United
States Army certainly has not forgotten
the horse. It has asked Congress for
funds to buy 107,000 gas masks for
horses.

The request was a part of a sup-
plemental estimate made for the War De-
partment and totaled $3,800,000. It was
submitted by the President during the
latter part of February.

No, it’s safe to say that the horse
isn’t forgotten, at least by the United
States Army. In fact, it seems to have
been well remembered.

M. D. CREHAN

 

RED—TAILED WESTERN HAWKS, THREE WEEKS OLD

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 125

In Defense of the Hawk
ALVIN M. PETERSON

HEM blue jays are bad birds,”

a man once said to me, utter-

ing a word it hardly seemed
necessary to use when one is speak-
ing about birds. Some birds are in—
jurious, perhaps, but not bad, at least
not in the sense that they are wicked.
However, it must be admitted that
many birds do some harm, a small
amount of harm and considerable
good in most instances, much harm
and little good rather rarely. Fur—
thermore, before we conclude that a
bird is harmful rather than the re—
verse several factors should be con—
sidered, not one or two.

There are few places where the
crow, English sparrow, blue jay,
blackbirds, hawks, owls, herons, and
kingﬁsher are not in disfavor for
one reason or another. Strange as it
may seem, large numbers of people
are sure to notice any damage done
by these birds, but fail to see that
there is another side to the picture
and that most of them actually are
of considerable service to us.

Much can be said in favor of
hawks, birds some folks shoot when—
ever they get the chance. All told,
hawks do comparatively little dam-
age in the course of a year; on the
other hand, they are our friends be-
cause they kill large numbers of in-
sects, gophers, rats and mice, among
the worst of pests.

Hawks surely do no damage in cities
and but little in villages. The harm they
actually do is conﬁned to rural districts.
The writer was born and still lives on a
farm. During the past twenty years he
has known of little damage done about
his farm by hawks. True, these birds
have destroyed a
few bobwhites, three
either in or near the
yard, and a lone
slate-colored junco.
On two, possibly
three, occasions he
has found the re-
mains of chickens
that apparently had
been carried off and
partly eaten by
hawks. Aside f r o m
this, no damage has
been done by these
birds against whom
many folks are prej-
udiced and on whom
they wage continual
war.

On the other hand,
one frequently sees
hawks sailing 10 w
over ﬁelds, perching

 

YOUNG SPARROW

HAWK

silently in trees, or ﬂying about or above
woods, usually far from farm homes,
looking for other prey than chickens and

hens. The worst pests aside from in-
sects, potato beetles, plant lice, cut-
Worms, striped beetles, grasshoppers,

corn and cotton worms, farmers have to
contend with are rats and mice, pests
that do hundreds of times the harm
destructive hawks do. Mice enter our
homes, barns and granaries, gnaw holes,
take food and grain, and otherwise do
much harm. Rats are ten times worse,
eating foods and grains in far larger
quantities, gnawing more, undermining
buildings, and even spreading danger-
ous diseases. When we fully realize that
hawks destroy large numbers of rats and
mice, we should be glad that we have at
least a few of them left, though we well
might wish that the number were ten
times as great. The rodent problem on
farms no doubt would be far less serious
today had we not persecuted and almost
exterminated our hawks.

There is but one common owl that does
any damage worth mentioning, whereas
we have many that are useful because of
the rats and mice they destroy. Studies
made by scientists at Washington have
shown that hawks and owls are among

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

o 1. AN

u I‘:_5,I1‘r.3\11eMark. Registered k

oELL m 1868.AND FOR FORTy.

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,

Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,

Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
—COWPER

D
PEACE won EARTH,

AND, MERCY 'r‘o
EVERy lema
CREATURE.

 

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

Entered as second-class matter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass., under the Act of March 3, 1879
Acceptance for mailing at spec1al ,rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Boston Ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

Vol. 74

June, 1941

No. 6

 

Foodstuffs for horses in and about
London have now been rationed. Such
supplies which include beans, bran and
oats are now obtainable only by ofﬁcial
ration cards or coupons. Horses must be
registered on forms to be got at any food
ofﬁce.

Alas, what this barbaric and savage
war is meaning not only to millions of
our fellow human beings, and to lost,

homeless and starving animals, but also

to the four-footed helpers, especially in
the land of Greece!

From England comes the report that
in Greece large numbers of horses and
mules have necessarily been used. The
great bulk of supplies depends upon their
efﬁciency, it is reported, and without
them it would be impossible to move the
artillery into the lofty positions to which
they must be brought. Scarcely less im-
portanti are they than the soldiers them-
selves.

In another place we have spoken of
what the unfortunate dogs in England
are getting to eat. Here is a recent
statement we have seen: “There are
more than ﬁfteen million dogs in the
United States that eat twenty million
pounds of food a day.” Of course we can-
not guarantee its accuracy. It is prob-
ably, however, an approximation.

Father Flanagan says that there is no
such thing as a bad boy. He ought to
know if anyone does. He says it’s all
environment. He also says that here in
the United States we spend about fifteen
billion dollars a year for our crime bill.
That’s a nice little sum to add to what
we are spending and planning to spend
for that absolutely needless, senseless,
brainless crime called war.

The Animals’ Advantage

MAN’S capacity for suffering out-
weighs, we are inclined to believe,
his capacity for pleasure. Can the most
favored child of fortune, to whom is
opened every door of enjoyment of which
health and wealth can dream, know a
satisfaction that can match in its height
the depth to which the child of suffering
and pain can sink? Tragedy and comedy
—both are here on every hand. Will
they balance in the scale or will the
former outweigh the latter every time?
And what advantage has the animal
over man when accident, sickness, pain,
pestilence, famine, war, death are fac-
ing both man and beast?

Are not the animals in England and
other war—stricken lands free from the
hourly dread of the moment when a
bomb may fall; free from the anticipa-
tion of what frightful thing may happen
at any moment; free from anxiety be-
fore harm is discovered, as to what may
befall their offspring; free from the fear
of sudden death long before the blow
may strike?

Granted that they may have faculties
unpossessed by us whereby they can per-
ceive, for example, the rumbling of a
dreaded earthquake before the crash
comes, even then are they not saved the
conscious, nervous dread and fear, the
worry, the strain upon the emotions
which bring to men and women so large
a part of what constitutes pain and suf—
fering? Do the mother dogs or cats, or
the mother animals among the horses
and cattle or in the wilds which bear the
young, ever wonder with more or less
of fear as to whether the natal hour,
weeks or months ahead, will mean life
or death?

If so many of the troubles of which

you and I live in fear never have to be
faced by the creatures below us, aren’t
the animals saved from that kind of
mental worry? Do they not escape the
dread of penniless old age, with its lone--
liness and possible helplessness? Can we
imagine that they ever have any ques—
tions to answer as to what lies beyond
the hour of death? Much as we may
grieve for what so many of them suffer,
much as we may and should seek their
welfare and guard them from cruelty
and injustice, we should feel some com-
fort in the thought that they are saved
at least some of the ills to which we are
heirs.

Let’s Kill Them Off!

Yes, let’s kill off all the wild animals
that we possibly can, especially if there’s
a dollar in it for us. It seems to make
no difference how much good certain
creatures are to us, if they do us a little
harm then somebody wants to annihilate
them.

The Pueblo Indicator tells us that the
Colorado general assembly has enacted
a bill which permits owners of land on
which our little friends, the beavers, are
found, to kill them off if in the opinion
of the land-owner they seem to be com—
mitting any damage.

The pelt is valued at about twenty-six
dollars. Half of what they get for it goes
to the land-owner and half to the State.
The Indicator may well say, “We may
now expect to see Colorado very much
discussed and cussed the country over,
for the beavers have become national
pets and of great assistance in regulat—
ing forest streams and creating dams
which hold water for wild and domestic
animals.”

See page 110 for the story of our
victory in the Massachusetts Legislature.

 




 

 

Page 6

My Dog
Arthur

L. Salmon

He lays his head upon my knee,
He looks with deep pathetic eyes;
I question and he answers me
With eloquence of mute replies;
A well of love that brimmeth o’er,
A soul of utter faithfulness——
No truest human heart has more,
So many human hearts have less.

We speak of love that is more strong
Than death, of love that cannot die,
That weakens not with change or wrong
Nor droops beneath a clouded sky.
This very love of which we speak
That never shrinks with doubt or fear,
That alters not for whim or freak—
This very perfect love is here.

The Dandie Dinmont Terriers
FORREST FRAZIER

REMEMBER, when a boy, my favor-

ite book was Scott’s “Guy Mannering,”
and of all the ﬁne characters, who
people that book, my favorites were
Dandie Dinmont and his terriers, “Pep—
per” and “Mustard.” I wanted above all
things to own two dogs like Pepper and
Mustard, but I did not then know that
such a breed of dogs as the Dandie Din-
mont terriers actually existed. I sup-
posed them to be purely ﬁctional.

Sir Walter Scott assures us that
Dandie Dinmont was a ﬁctional char-
acter. However, a James Davidson, who
was one of the tenants of Lord Douglas,
ﬁtted the description of Dandie so per-
fectly that after “Guy Mannering” was
published he became known by the name
of Dandie Dinmont. This man, aside from
having the many characteristics ascribed
to Dandie Dinmont, also owned the fa-
mous Pepper and Mustard terriers. They
received their names accordingly as their
coats were grayish-black or yellow.

Davidson and Scott were well known
to each other, and it is highly probable
that Scott did have him in mind as the
prototype of Dandie in spite of his as-
sertion that the character was purely
ﬁctional.

Scott owned a pair of Davidson’s fa—
mous terriers and has left this statement
of their characteristics, “The race of
Pepper and Mustard are in the highest
estimation at this day, not only for ver-
min killing, but for intelligence and
ﬁdelity.”

The Dandie Dinmont terrier is still
held in the highest esteem, and I believe.
anyone who has read and enjoyed “Guy
Mannering” will always have a soft spot
in his heart for these utterly fearless and
intelligent little dogs, and will wish to
own “them not only for their literary
assoc1ations but because they make the
very best of companions.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

“Bill,” the Hero
A broadcast from Station WOR by

GABRIEL HEATTER

ADIES and Gentlemen: Maybe there
is a dog at your house who is hold-

ing his head up tonight with just an
extra measure of pride. Maybe his tail
is up on parade, just an extra notch.
Maybe he’s heard about a dog in London.
Just an' every-day dog. Nazi planes came
where he lived almost every day. First
he looked up puzzled—his soft brown
eyes troubled by it, as if he couldn’t
understand it—then when bombs came
crashing down he barked back Violently.

And ﬁnally neighbors noticed he would
always run .after ﬁremen ﬁghting ﬁre
caused by falling bombs—as if he meant
everyone to know he was doing his part.
About a week ago people noticed he
would come out early and go straight to
a hill—top where he took up his post——
waited—and looked up at a sky in which
he knew planes were hiding behind
clouds . . .

And suddenly he would come dashing
down a block and
barking violently in
front of every house
—and nine times in
ten he was right.
The air raid warn-
ings would be heard
————and people were
amazed to realize—
here was a dog who
had ﬁnally ﬁgured
it out. Planes over-
head spelled danger
——he was alookout—
he could sense a
plane as fast as any
anti-air—craft gun—
and when he did, his
job was to race up
and down this street
and bark and warn
everyone of danger.

And just before
dusk last night a
piece of metal caught
him as he turned
back for one angry
challenging bark at
a plane overhead—
and today people
walked behind his
body as people might
walk behind any
great hero—and
everyone told of
times when “Bill”
saved people by
shouting an alarm of
danger—and how he
would never run for
cover until he felt
everyone was out
and safe

J an. 1941'

And today people marched behind him
and wept—and if your dog’s head is.
held just an extra measure high tonight,
——maybe he has heard about a dog named.
Bill—just a plain every—day dog who like
plain every-day people make you hold
your own head up and still believe in a
better future—when so much is happen—
ing to make you want to hide it in,
shame.

My hands up in salute for a dog named
Bill . . .

San Diego Pet Club

According to Mrs. W. P. B. Prentice,
president of the San Diego Humane So-
ciety, many children from outlying
points in the county are joining the
newly-formed Pet Club. All under six-
teen years of age are eligible, provided
they own a pet and take the Band of
Mercy pledge. Buttons for such members
are supplied to those who ﬁll out the
proper blanks and return them to the
Shelter, 3656 Wright Street, San Diego,
California. Every Saturday morning
some child takes part in a broadcast.

 

FOR CANINE CASUALT’IES IN ENGLAND

The National Air Raid Precaution Animal Committee
provides special stretchers and ambulances for dogs injured
during air raids over England. This picture shows an
airedale “casualty” arriving at the Committee’s hospital on
the new stretcher—ambulance.

 

 




 

 

 

 

a

11>

Aug. 191,1

Servant in the House

Harry Elmore Hurd

The independence which I boast
. Is less substantial than a ghost.

FIunky is a servile name—
Yet I confess it without shame—

For when my master beckons me
I must answer instantly:

I must grant his will and pleasure
Without question, without measure:

I must go, or come, or stay,
As he wishes, night and day.

When I grumble, he ignores
My resentment of the chores

Entailed by needs—and fancied needs—
Which multiply like lusty weeds.

I am a servant to my dog
Whose whims are like the decalog

To be obeyed without dissension,
Even to the third dimension.

Wagner — The Man

MARY AGNES COLVILLE

E are prone to think of a famed

artist as being an entity set apart
on a different plane from other human
beings. Lost in admiration of a great
skill, we may know little of the char-
acteristics which he may possess aside
from his talent.

Aside from his inspired professional
career, Richard Wagner, the world re-
nowned musical composer, was an out-
standing lover of animals.

Life was often a rather grim struggle
for this musical genius. But no matter
what his disappointments in regard to
his work, or the failures he had to over-
come—the lighter, happier aspect of his
existence was always the joy he found in
the companionship of animals—particu—
larly dogs.

In childhood, young Richard had a
varied collection of pets. As he grew
older, he was never without at least one
dog. Breed or appearance made no dif-
ference to him. It was “his” dog and
that was enough.

In later years, when Wagner was liv-
ing in Riga, he decided to go to Paris,
in the hope of having two of his operas
produced, though at the time, his work
on Rienzi was only half completed.

Strodtmann, a contemporary, was fond
of telling this anecdote about Wagner.

“Heinie (a close friend of Wagner’s)
folded his hands in devout amazement at
the sanguine spirit of the man, who in.
addition to his wife, an opera and a half,

OUR DUMB

 

Bureau of Biological Survey

RACCOON AT HOME

 

and a small purse, carried in a sailing
vessel from Riga to London, a terribly
large and voracious Newfoundland dog.”

One can well imagine the incongruous
combination of small sailing vessel, small
purse, and large dog. However, Wagner
must have managed it all satisfactorily,
even in those days of slow and tedious
voyages, for the huge canine was still his
companion later on in Paris.

Henry Frich in his life of Wagner,
comments thus—“He had a profound and
Buddhistic theory of pity.”

Wagner exempliﬁed his deep feeling
for animals and their welfare, by being
one of the early advocates of laws
against cruelty to dumb creatures. He
carried on, what amounted to a per-
sonal crusade for furthering this ideal
throughout the greater part of his life.

One of his most poignant regrets in
looking back on his early youth, was the
fact that at one period he had engaged
in hunting. Until the end of his life, the
remorse this occasioned Wagner caused
him much mental anguish.

As the days of this powerful, gifted
personality drew to a close, it was a
ﬁtting ﬁnale, that, at his own request.
Richard Wagner should be buried in the
garden at the rear of his home at Bay-
reuth, with the bodies of several of his
favorite dogs resting peacefully beside
him.

The woodchuck has quite an assort-
ment of names. He is known as the
ground hog, the whistle-pig, the thick
wood badger, the red monk, the Cana-
dian marmot. And the Choctaw Indians
call him “Shukha.”

ANIMALS

Page 155

Seeing Is Believing
M. H. M o R G A N

NATURE’S stream—lining was ages
old before man recognized the value
of wedge-fronts, sloping bodies, air
chambers, hollow bones, etc., the funda-
mantal object of which was increased
lightness without interference.

Man has sometimes seemed rather
slow in taking advantage of Nature’s
many hints, but sooner or later, some
bright mind with a seeing eye, has ad--
justed her suggestions to our human
needs: the paper-making waSp preceded
the papyrus-manufactured book; swal—.
lows and mud-daubers heralded the time
of ’dobies and dwellings plastered on in—.
accessible clifts; spiders and other in-
sects spun the ﬁrst threads, and wove
air, earth, water and even under-water
craft, not to mention the original magic
carpet, ladder, wheel, etc. The partridge
thrummed the ﬁrst drum; camouﬂage
was an old story with them all; and we
might add to this list indeﬁnitely——
man’s indebtedness to that which had al—
ready been in use for centuries.

And now stream-lining! Man thinks
he invented something here, but he
didn’t. Some smart person just observed
the air sacs of ﬁshes, the air chambers
of birds, the hollow bones of deer and
antelope; they noticed how all these
bodies built for speed sloped from head
to tail; how even the feathers of birds.
were stream-lined; that the breast-bones
of birds of ﬂight were wedge-shaped to
cut the air, rather than being broad and
heavy, like those of the stodgy waders;
and they patterned all their speed ma—
chines accordingly. They put a sharp
prow on ships, and built air chambers in
them; they put wings on their planes
and a tail-like rudder; they constructed
their racing cars so the air which would
otherwise impact with great force,
ﬂowed over their sloping backs. They
commenced to pay attention to those
things which made for speed, and dis-
covered these fundamentals already in
use by the birds, animals and ﬁshes.

All the stream-lined creatures are shy,
possessing few weapons other than that
of ﬂight, as against the ferocious teeth
and claws of their more pugnacious,
broad-breasted, heavy-bodied neighbors.
Most of them are herbivorous rather
than carnivorous like their enemies: the
ostrich which, using its meager wings
as a balancer and an elevator of its
weight, can outrun the fastest Arabian
horse; the stream-lined giraffe, walking
down young trees to feed upon their
tops; the deer and antelope; the kan-
garoo; the tiny kit fox ﬂoating like
smoke over the plains—altogether too
many to name; but man can do no better
than study the structure and attributes.
of his small neighbors to his beneﬁt.

 

 




“GOOD NIGHT”

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

had come to put their old dog
away. But not the Bestons!
They feel very strongly that
either man or animal who
had lived a good life deserves
to be honored and cared for
tenderly in old age. This was
simple to do because all
Bos’n wanted was a kind pat
on the head, a tidbit to eat,
and a warm corner to sleep
in. He would lie at the feet
of his master for hours, per-
fectly content to know that
the one he loved was near by.
At last Bos’n died of old age.
His life ended in peace and
contentment.

He was an old-fashioned
American black bull-terrier,
handsome, friendly and loyal.
Now, with him gone, Chim-
ney Farm is strangely lone—
ly. The two authors and
their little girls who loved

 

 

 

u .- . _ , ‘ . -_)‘ . '5‘ :A‘a- .<
j . ﬁa’ém‘ ' 9J5... it. Bahama... 4. .4: - -- ' ~

of this spot and the affection poured out
by a city in remembrance, there lingers
the hope that no harm will ever come to
the “Isle of Little Dogs.”

Two Authors and Their Pet
ESTHER C. AVERILL

OS’N” was no ordinary dog. Both
his master and his mistress, the
Bestons, of Nobleboro, Maine, are well—
known in the literary world. Henry
Beston is the author of some half a
dozen books, and numerous magazine
articles. Mrs. Beston writes under the
name of Elizabeth Coatsworth. Her spec—
ial ﬁeld is writing for children, but she
has several adults novels to her credit,
and ranks high as a poet. Many of her
children’s books have animal characters
in them that play important parts. There
is one about a fox terrier, and several
about cats and kittens. Her story “The
Cat that Went to Heaven,” won the New-
bury award for the most distinguished
contribution to American literature for
children in 1930. That Mr. Beston and
his wife are both nature worshippers is
shown in all that they have written.
Life for Bos’n was full of joy. The
only grief he knew was to have his fam-
ily leave him and go journeying to the
far places of the earth. No joy exceeded
his when they returned to Chimney
Farm. He frolicked with the two little
girls in the family. They loved him and
felt that he was an important part of
their home life. As time passed Bos’n
grew old. His beautiful shiny black coat
began to show gray hairs in it. His legs
grew stiff and awkward. He lost his
hearing. Then the worst blow of all fell
upon him. Bos’n went blind. All too
many people would think that the time

him mourn his passing as
they would a member of their family
circle.

Henry Beston wrote about the loss of
his pet: “Poor Bos’n! He was a dog
saint, old, benevolent, solemn, and kind.
I hope he is in some canine Paradise. He
had reached the noble age of ﬁfteen,
going on sixteen. His departure simply
rent us. Bos’n was a Franciscan: he
would have made an excellent team-mate
with the reformed dog of Gublio.”

Creative artists like the Bestons appre-
ciate the friendship of an animal like
Bos’n. They are sensitive to the common
bond that runs through all life. They
were wise enough to value highly the
love and loyalty of their pet.

The kiwi, a small bird of New Zealand
which is unable to ﬂy, is said to stamp
on the ground when hunting for food.
This action supposedly tricks worms into
coming to the surface for the kiwi to
gobble. The worms, it appears, sense
the vibration made by the bird’s feet,
and believe it is raining.

. O

The “Big Room” of
Carlsbad C a v e r n sin
New Mexico, is 4,000
feet long, 625 feet wide
and 300 feet high.

In the caverns are
found millions of bats,
and scientists estimate
that during the sum-
mer months this bat
population consumes a
total of eleven and one-
half tons of insects
nightly.

“HEARTY” GOES TO THE “FISH-BOWL”

J an. 191;]

For “Pudgy”

Who was killed by a passing car on
May 13, 1939

Salvatore Marsiglia

I think of you whene’er I see a cat

Whose coat and eyes most matched your
subtle shade;

But, prejudice, in view of what you meant

And all the artful tricks you ever played

Have made me cast a pitying, dubious eye

On other cats who pass me by

I feel your dainty paws upon my lap

And hear the gentle murmur of your voice!

Oh, there are things that haunt me, even
, now,

Yet, in my foolish sorrow I rejoice.

The tender s'craping of your coated

tongue— '
The mewling cries when you were young.

I sat and watched when, you, with dreamy
glance,

Would gaze upon the goldfish in their bowl;

I knew you well enough to e’en suspect

Their ultimate consumption was your goal.

And with my Dickie-bird you took great care

To look upon temptation as a snare.

I see your glowing eyes of amber hue!

They watch me with a warmth I treasure
still.

I have known many cats since your demise,

But none with love have made my heart to
fill;

And I am left with foolish memories

That blow about me like the falling leaves.

The “American Elk” is a misnomer.
This beautiful forest deer was ignorant-
ly so named by the early American col-
onists, but it bears no resemblance to the
true elk of Northern European coun-
tries. Rather, it is a species of red deer.
The only relative of the true elk in North
America is the moose. The American
Indians gave the name Wapiti to the deer
we so refer to as the elk and leading
authorities on Wild life prefer to use the
Indian name. T. R. B.

 

 




 

 

Page 1 21,

Mid-Summer

Brigid Barnes

For one swift moment all the world went
mad,

Reeling and drunk, with winged clouds
flying,

And color—green on green soft lying——

Ancl shadowed aisles where sun and cloud
had

Tossed their myriad magics down. The trees

Were flecked with gold, and butterflies

Burned iridescent patterns on the skies—

There was no hint of any singing breeze.

Sound seemed dead, only motion and color
flew

In dizzying summer madness blinding me,

Until, beginning like a murmured prayer,

A sudden wind with rushing fingers drew

The harp strings of the earth and strung
from tree to tree

Great chords of melody across the air.

The whole question arises, even when
you are talking of animals of any kind,
and particularly perhaps of the dog, as
to whether they have any power of rea-
soning or act only from mere instinct.
This is what Darwin says, “The senses,
intuitions, emotions and faculties, such
as love, memory, attention, curiosity,
imitation, reason, of which man boasts,
may be found in an incipient or even
sometimes in a well-developed condition
in the lower animals.” And Darwin
agrees with Agassiz in recognizing in
the dog something very like the human
conscience.

“The temper of a people toward ani-
mals can be judged from its sports. The
Roman holidays were days of wanton
cruelty to animals. Such days seemed an
outrage to the Greeks—the Greeks, from
Homer down, holding the chariot race
the favorite sport, gave it a more or
less religious character, and a dignity
above that of a mere pastime.”

3N ...

a.

 

HIPPOS IN KRUGER NATIONAL PARK, AFRICA

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

The Wild Yak of Tibet
V.T.JOHNSON

HE wild yak of Tibet is far more

important than its name connotes.
It roams high in the mountain plateaus,
three or four miles above sea level al—
ways preferring the dry, cold mountain
air to the warmer regions lower down.
This perhaps is partly due to the excep-
tionally heavy coat of hair with which
nature has endowed the animal to with-
stand the severe cold temperatures.

Long streamers of silky black hair fall
from the animal’s flanks, completely en—
veloping it and at the same time giving
the beast a rather grotesque appearance.
If the hair was clipped it would look
much like an ordinary cow, except for
the horns which are black and massive
and have a tendency to curve upwards.

Domesticated yaks are commonplace in
Tibet. As a beast of burden they have no
rivals. Their great strength and endur-
ance and ability to undergo hardships
make them ideal animals to cart freight
across the rough terrain of the moun-
tains and tricky glacier rivers. It is at
home here in its natural habitat.

However, since the animal is princi-
pally a grass eater and absolutely re-
fuses to eat corn, this often necessitates
long journeys to provide the right kind
of fodder. In the barren and desolate
mountainous regions it subsists entirely
on the coarse grasses, and great herds
of yaks can often be seen roaming far
and wide in search of food.

Another peculiarity is its language——
if animals have a language? Instead of
bellowing like other oxen, it grunts—a
weird, grunting cry that makes needles
run up and down your back. It is such
an unusual sound coming from so large
an animal that you are forced to take
another look to see what is wrong. Few
outsiders are able to completely orientate
themselves, and the animal’s grunting
cry always carries a note of mystery.

 

July, 191,1

Havens of Refuge

EPSY COLLING

HEY ought to have havens of ref-

uge,” David Livingstone used to say.

“Animals? Havens of refuge?” his
listener would ask.

“Certainly, or these big-game hunters
are going to be the death of them.”

“Even hippos?”

“Even hippos,” Livingstone would
agree. “It’s a small man that holds a
grudge against an animal.”

“How about lions?”

“Lions, too,” the missionary-explorer
would say. “They keep the old and dis-
eased grass-eaters killed off. Otherwise
herds die out. Africa used to be teeming
with animals everywhere when I ﬁrst
went out. Now you don’t ﬁnd them in
any places easily reached by hunters.”

Livingstone, as he said, had no
grudges against animals in spite of the
fact that his left shoulder had been
crippled by a man-eating lion in the
Kalahari Desert. Nor did he have any
hatred for hippos although one had up-
set his war canoe in the Zambezi.

His paddlers had inadvertently ram-
med a sleeping female and she had risen
in wrath and tossed the great pirogue
out of the water, tumbling men and lug—
gage iuto the stream. Livingstone’s agile
paddlers savedthe boat and most of the
luggage while he swam to shore.

That story shows how common the
hippopotamus used to be in African
rivers. A man had to be careful lest he
run into one. Now hippos have to be
protected, and they have their havens of
refuge.

Probably Kruger National Park in
Eastern Transvaal has more hippos than
any other African game reserve because
it has so many rivers. Not only hippos
but all other animals are safe there in-
cluding lions and leopards, beasts once
classed as vermin and hunted without
mercy.

Another interesting refuge is Kala-
hari Gemsbuck National Park which em-
braces the great white desert Livingston-e
explored in ox-wagons and where he was
bitten by the man-eater early in his
career. Kuruman, an oasis town, was
once the explorer’s headquarters.

At ﬁrst, it seems strange that many
beasts can live on a desert, but the trav-
eler sees thousands of gemsbuck (oryx)
there as well as eland, kudu, ostriches,
and lions. The grazers in the Kalahari
Desert live on camelthorn, acacia shrub,
and a species of wild melon.

Modern windmills pump water from
deep wells to make artiﬁcial waterholes
and oases.

Join the Jack London Club, and
help stop the cruelty in training ani-
mals for stage or screen.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 154

66Pa199

Salvatore Marsiglia

Written in the summer of 1938, for a noble
German police dog that since has died.

He's just what his name is . . .
Faithful and loyal;
Tender and patient . . .
Good as the soil.

His brown eyes are loving,
Following me;

Shining with fondness,
Lighting with glee.
Obedient ever

He ran to my call,
Faithfully hearing

Till Fate came to fall.
And now he is crippled,
Pain-filled and slow;

But e'er in his bright eyes
True love doth glow.

Ills have gone onward
Taking their tee.

Death must yet take him
Away from me.

Ah, ”Pal" is a true friend!
(We've romped and we’ve played,
Chasing through meadows
And cool woodland glade.)
Death shall his heart take,
Body and all.

What shall be left me
When he comes not to call?
True love, and tender,
Faithfulness, too.

Patience and loyalty . . .

All memories true!

 

“BUCK”

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

 

Aug. 1941

 

THE PEKINGESE, ONCE KNOWN AS THE LION-DOGS

 

The Pets of Royalty

NORMA M. MCGARRY

KINGS and queens of all ages have

been fond of pets. Doubtless the
heavy tasks and responsibilities of their
lofty positions have been made more tol-
erable by the pranks of a favorite dog or
the affection of a pretty kitten.

Queen Elizabeth, that famous queen
of centuries ago, loved singing birds,
apes and little dogs. Mary, Queen of
Scots, who came to such an unhappy
end, when on the way to the block con-
cealed in her clothing a favorite lap-dog.
A sharp yelp of distress as Mary’s head
was severed gave him away and his grief
over the fate of his unhappy mistress
was real indeed.

James I of England went in for pets
in a really big way. He had fancy span-
iels, always a favorite with all kings and
queens, a cream-colored fawn, a splen-
did white falcon from Ireland, also an
elephant, ﬁve camels and every imagin-
able kind of dog in his collection.

Among the lot was a favorite hound.
Somehow the animal was shot and no
one dared tell the king for fear of his
displeasure. In the end a little trick was
played on His Majesty. He was told that
the animal had been killed by a shaft
from the hand of the queen of Whom the
king was very fond. He forgave her, of
course, knowing that if she had killed
the hound, it had been owing to an acci-
dent.

Charles II often had his portrait
painted surrounded by his beloved span—
iels. His fondness for these dogs was ex-
traordinary and it is said he even per-
mitted them to litter in his apartment.

He loved birds, too, and often amused

himself by feeding the birds in St. James
Park with his own hand.

Catherine II of Russia kept a white
squirrel, although she loved small chil—
dren and all kinds of animals. Once,
when writing to a friend, she said,
“You will excuse me if all the preceding
pages are badly written. I am extremely
hampered at the moment by a certain
young and fair ‘Zemire’ who pushes her
pretentious to the point of putting her
paws on my paper.”

Queen Victoria was greatly devoted to
a little Pomeranian called “Marco” and
when she lay dying, sent for the little
dog and caressed him fondly. Knowing
her fondness for animals, many of her
subjects in foreign lands sent her many
unusual specimens. Indian Rajahs and
African Chiefs used to send her strange
gifts such as lions or huge Thibetan
mastiffs which had to be kept at Wind-
sor farms. However, the queen had her
dislikes and would not permit cats to
come near her.

There is a story told of a Persian king
of early times who, when going into
battle against the Egyptians, gave each
of his soldiers in the front ranks a live
cat to carry. The Egyptians surrendered
to the Persians rather than injure the
cats which they considered sacred.

Quail are monogamous. They usually
pair off and remain mated during the
nesting season. Frequently they live
together the entire year and oftentimes
remate the following season.

All spiders are beneﬁcial to man since
they live largely on insects. All spiders
have a poisonous venom but the black
widow is the only one that we in the
United States recognize as dangerous.

 

 

 

 

 

a




 

OUR DUMB

    
  

.nnﬂflv'm'r” '

  

l l
val
. _ - (f/{J/l/ludgulu AU} ‘ .U: _

.’.(”’lm'ﬂmumvmln I ..-

 

“Sonny” Holt and One of His Pet Raccoons

“Sonny” Holt, son of Mr. and Mrs. Kirk Holt of Route
5, Warsaw, Indiana, is shown with one of his two
raccoons. When the mother ’coon was killed by a neigh—
bor for bothering his chickens, his conscience hurt him
and he gave her tiny babies to this boy. They were too
young to suck a bottle and he fed them with a spoon. A
permit from the state is necessary to retain wild animals
but this was given because these coons are not conﬁned
and are permitted to run loose. Most of their time is
spent on the roof of the Holt home unless it is time for
their bread and milk.

Children who are kind to animals are kind to their fel-
lows. Gentleness and thoughtfulness are the most beauti-
ful characteristics that could be desired in. a child.

Everything that is helpful in moral development comes
under the objects of the Band of Mercy, and this is a
cause in which teachers, parents and volunteers could
give valuable service. J. J. KELSO

 

ANIMALS

  
 

 
  
  
   
 

\

U ll'hh’lj

/

1
t

-\

"\\&‘\\\iii\\j\ii\fi§\{{§§\: ‘

- I

1}»
I; ‘V'

//
(IN/H

%

[I ///’/'
see
//
“\M

Q“?
fir’
as!

1/ (I;
\\==;§ ’

R
\\\

\\~

‘.\
\\

 
 

.\\-‘
\“

The Love Bird

ANNA FOSTER FORD

I saw a little bird today,
His coat, so rich and rare,

I could but think of Heaven
And the golden glories there.

His tiny head and breast were green
With sunlight shining through,
His pretty wings were mottled dark;

His tail, a royal blue.

So many shades of beauty
In this living throbbing thing
That Solomon, in all his robes,
Was not so much a king.

You will not see him flying free
Amidst the woods and bowers,

But, swinging in a gilded cage,
He spends contented hours.

His home is far in tropic climes;
The “Love Bird” is his name.

I wonder why so much of thought
God gave to his small frame.

Rabbits should not be lifted by their ears. This wide-
spread habit is a very dangerous one, for it may" cause
serious injury to the animal, particularly if it is one of
the heavy domesticated varieties. Just because the ani-
mal has long ears, it does not follow that they are handles
placed there for human convenience. Rabbits should
always be raised by the scruff of their necks.

The Colorful Animals

ALFRED I. TOOKE

HIS list of colorful things is not what it seems to

be, but instead is a list of names of different ani-
mals, but the letters in each name have been jumbled.
' Can you unjumble them and name the animals?

1. RED BAGS 7. SOFA BLUF

2. PINK CHUMS 8. OPAL SECT

3. OLIVE WRENS 9. ROSE ON RICH
4. RED OPALS 10. MAIZE HEN P C
5. CREAM D' OPALS 11. PASTEL ONE
6. ECRU PIN SOP 12. TAN HELPS E

Correct answers will be found on this page next month.

Answers to “How Many ‘C’ Animals?” puzzle last
month: Did you get these fourteen names?: Calf, camel,
camelopard, cat, catalo, catamount, caribou, chameleon,
chamois, cheetah, colt, cougar, cow, coyote.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

May, 1941

The Cat’s Entreaty

The words which follow were written by MME.
CAMILLA VON CORBELAR, Szeged, Hungary.
Mme. Von Corbelar, in far-01f Hungary, practically
alone against insuperable odds, has been working in
the interest of neglected, hungry, ill-treated, un-
appreciated animals. Her self-sacriﬁce and devotion
place her among the leading friends of unfortunate
animals of our time.

DO you know the meaning of my soft,

meek voice, of my imploring look?
Quite a little understanding—that is it,
0 man, I am begging for. You see, I
cannot explain it in your language. I am
feeling it myself so darkly, when my
little pink mouth opens complainingly,
imploringly. Surely you would know me
better, tolerate me better, and perhaps
you would even love me a little, if only
I could explain.

Because in all I do and don’t do, you
are inclined to perceive something that
isn’t in it. Never will you give me just
the thing I want; not out of any whim,
but because my body and soul demand
it. You misinterpret my friendliness,
my shyness as well as my courage, my
sincereness as well as the little playing
grace that lends luxury to my being ever
in the midst of life’s dreariest necessi-
ties. There is no mystery in me. I am
not a sphinx. If only you could under-
stand my “meow,” I should try to
explain.

Chlldllke—that is what I am. I am
a child, 0 man! My body is small and
tender. I love the milk; always I am
playing, if only there is not broken
in me the natural joy of existence by
fear and misery. The touch of your soft,
warm hand means felicity for me; it re—
members me to the caressing, nursing
tongue of my little mother. Because I am
the eternal child, the best mother’s or-
phan, I remain childlike through all my
brief existence. It is she I am, searching
distressedly—her love, her care. It is
my lost mother I search in you, 0 man!

You know how you estimated me once.
In temples with severe care you bred my
slender race, tearing me out of Nature’s
life-giving embrace, forcing me into
privilege, loneliness, gentle helplessness.
Then, out from the radiant worship of
the Egyptian temple you dragged me
with you in shivering nights of cold
countries, you did not nurse me, not
caress me, not speak to me.

Hardly did you give me food. You only
tolerated me near your hearthﬁre be-
cause I quenched my hunger with your
smallest enemy’s life. But I, I remained
myself; that, what once you loved in me,
in my ﬂowerlike being, in my appealing
beauty, (of which I take care myself,
being an orphan).

Look at me as at a tropical flower
that can give joy to you also when bear-
ing no fruit. In spite of my great use-
fulness do love me, as you love beautiful
things—ﬂowers and music. Love me on
account of my beauty in body and soul,
and on account of my childlike attach-

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 93

 

Monument to a Horse
LOUISE PRICE BELL

as imposing a monument as even a

human could ask. Yet it is in mem—
ory of a horse, “Peter the Great.” Peter
the Great was named for his trainer,
Peter V. Johnson, and was a marvel of
horse ﬂesh from the time he was a small
colt.

At the age of three, the horse was
sold for $20,000 to a wealthy sportsman
(J. M. Forbes) and at the age of twenty
for $50,000 to an Indianapolis horseman.
Peter the Great was originally a trot—
ting horse but his value was as a sire,
for after he was purchased for $50,000
he returned $400,000 to his owner, who

][ N Kalamazoo, Michigan, there stands

used him as a sire. Thus it is not sur-
prising that this famous horse left be—
hind him the largest number of fast
colts, it is believed, ever left by any sire
in the world.

It is only natural that Kalamazoo
should be proud of this horse for this
city used to be in the heart of the trot—
ting industry. Thus it is that in this
spot, the dramatic monument to Peter
the Great, has been built and is visited
annually by horse-lovers from all over
the United States. The monument is a
shrine to a great horse and shows that
animals often receive the reverence and
respect due them.

 

ment. The very best of your race have
loved me like this; and more than one
beautiful poem has praised my charm,
the deep worth of my soul. Flowerlike,
I too am united by invisible roots to my
dwelling-place. Do not separate us with-
out any forcing reason! The tearing off
of the roots means horrible pain. My
entreating look follows all your motions.
I am thirsty for love, for tenderness,
softly-calling words, a stroking hand!
Every roughness makes my nerves shiver
in all their ﬁnest threads. Roughness I
never forget; frightfully I ﬂee before
the rough hand.

Don’t be angry if I, who am so easily
satisﬁed, who exterminate your vermin,
don’t want special care, who am gentle,
quiet, tactful and passionately clean, on
the Great Mother’s command (who didn’t

want my race to die out) catch all things
moving and not too large for my
strength! If you don’t want these things
to be birds, do feed me well, especially
when I am with young or suckling my
always hungry kittens! And oh, do give
me, what I want as dearly as food, love!
Then, further, I shall not be an orphan,
and you will learn with what unending.
passionate love will cling the meek beast
to you, my good human friend!

The noblest conquest of man is that of
the horse, an animal generous and vig-
orous, who shares with him the risk of
war and the glory of battle; who faces
dauntlessly the dangers, accustoms him-
self to the roar of battle with an anima-
tion equal to that of his master.

COMTE DE BUFFON

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 128

Goldﬁsh Native to China

JEAN MURRAY

OLDFISH are not always gold; some

of the most valuable are practically
white and one, the “fantail,” is often a
brilliant black. Another called the
“fringetail” has an enormous tail. In the
bright sunlight, it produces effects with
its beautiful shimmering tail that are
wonderfully graceful.

Strange to say, the one most highly
prized in the Orient is the “telescope”
goldﬁsh, the ugliest Of all. It has large
bulging eyes. The Japanese are trying
to produce goldﬁsh with eyes still larger
and more bulgy.

Goldﬁsh ﬁrst hailed from China and
have been bred there since an ancient
period. They still are found in Chinese
waters in a wild state. It is thought by
authorities on the subject that the Chi-
nese kept the goldﬁsh secret for many
centuries and Chinese records furnish
evidence of this.

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

How proudly the goldﬁsh swim about
in the water dressed in their suits of
gold or bright red jackets with trim—
mings of silver or black. This proud
little ﬁsh knows nothing about its an—
cestors that were so dull—colored.

The Chinese not only domesticated the
goldﬁsh but by a studied method over a
long period Of time, have produced
numerous varieties and many fantastic
and grotesque monstrosities with three
and four lobed tails. These experiments
carried on by Chinese ﬁsh fanciers since
the eleventh century are almost identi-
cal with experiments carried on by our
biologists Of today.

There is an old saying, “Blood will
tell.” It is so with goldﬁsh. Specimens
that escaped from fountains in Wash-
ington to the river have produced young
that are not the same beautiful color,
but the old original greenish dull shade.

Goldﬁsh made their ﬁrst appearance
in Japan and Europe about four or ﬁve
hundred years ago. Madame Pompadour
of the King’s Court in France is thought
to be the ﬁrst per-
son in Europe to
keep goldﬁsh. Peo-
ple coming f r o In
China brought her
a number of them
as a gift. Madame
Pompadour w a s
the great leader of
fashion a n d, O f
course, w h a t she
did w a s followed.
0 t h e r people im-
ported them and it
was soon a fad all
over Europe.

Goldﬁsh have be—
come so popular in
the United States
that about 20,000,—
000 are sold every
y e a r. Authorities
say that the ordi—
nary ﬁsh b owl
should not be used
because there is
too little space for
the surface of the
water to reach the
air. The best aqua-
rium is on e in
which water plants
are growing.

The male black
bass really fathers
his y 0 u n g. He
builds th e nest,

 

ANIMAL RESCUE SQUAD OF THE PEOPLE’S DISPEN- fans it almost 0011'
SARY FOR SICK ANIMALs, LONDON, AT WORK AFTER
A DISASTROUS BOMBING OF THE CITY. IN ONE
WEEK 7,241 ANIMALS WERE RESCUED IN LONDON
ALONE. SIMILAR WORK IS GOING ON IN OTHER
HEAVILY BOMBED TOWNS

stantly tO keep it
clean and to circu-
late fresh water
over the eggs, and
protects the fry.

July, 191,1

Fish at Home
ALICE GILBERT DUFFILL

N central and northern Florida there

are many ancient limestone springs
that have their sources in deep under-
ground seas and rivers. Some of these
springs are small; some are as large as
lakes. The largest Of them, Rainbow
Springs near Dunnellon and Silver
Springs near Ocala, are among the larg-
est fresh water springs in the world.

They are very, very Old. Ages ago
many of the prehistoric animals made
their homes beside these ever-ﬂowing
water—holes. Great skeletons of the mas-
todons have been found buried deep
within the spring. Today a few bears,
panthers, wild cats, and deer, and many
of the smaller wood’s creatures live in
the jungles near by.

Gliding about the spring in a glass-
bottom boat or in a photo submarine,
looking through water as clear as crystal
shot through with many rainbow hues,
we see the ﬁsh at home in a fairy under—
water wonderland. They seem to be
everywhere. They trail after our boat.
They swim about in beds of rose, coral,
and purple sea ferns, in underwater for—
ests, and in aquatic gardens of gay water
poppies as lovely as any gardens upon
the earth. They hide in fantastic caves
and grottoes carved by the water in the
soft limestone. Hundreds Of turtles,
large and small, graze upon underwater
meadows Of woolly moss.

More than forty species of ﬁsh are
found in the springs. Among the com-
mon southern varieties Of fresh water
ﬁsh are blue gills, perch, pickerel, pike,
and different kinds Of gar, catﬁsh, shi-
ners, bass, and sunﬁsh; and among the
salt water species mullet, ﬂounder, shad,
menhaden, and needleﬁsh. There are also
many varieties of tropicals, shrimp,
crayﬁsh and mussels, and an occasional
alligator.

During the month of March a strange
thing happened at Silver Springs.
Enormous schools of menhaden appeared
almost overnight in the spring. They
had come from the Atlantic ocean, hun—
dreds of miles away, up the St. Johns,
the Oklawaha, and the Silver rivers to
the spring. There were so many of them
that the usually crystal-clear water
looked cloudy.

Menhaden are by far the most abund-
ant ﬁsh upon our Atlantic coast. In the
early days the Indians showed the Pil-
grims how to use them. to fertilize their
cornﬁelds. The word menhaden means
“fertilizer” in the Narragansett lan-
guage. Known also as mossbunkers and
bonyﬁsh, they are seldom used as food
by man but are widely sold for bait.
Since they are an inportant source of
food for the other ﬁshes, no doubt the
Old-timers in Silver Springs have had
one grand feast.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

UNION TRUST
COMPANY

O F
Springfield, Massachusetts

Complete
BANKING AND TRUST
FACILITIES

I I I
COMMERCIAL BANKING
FOREIGN EXCHANGE
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES

INDIVIDUAL
A N D

CORPORATE TRUSTS
STOCK TRANSFER

M E M B E R
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM
FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE
CORPORATION

 

 

 

 

in

Have You Seen the New
HUMANE CALENDAR for 1941?

See description on back cover

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1 8-32

J. s. WATERMAN & SONS, Inc.
itinhrrmkrrs

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE

City and out-of—town service

 

 

 

 

 

 

y

Prevent Dog Damag:
. .. a

   

 

Keep Jags 0” Furniture
with Powder Chaperone

Just sprinkle Powder Chaperone~the amazing
new mwderwn chairs, beds, rugs, sofas 1
wherever you want your dog to keep off. Harm-
less. Doesn’t show. You don’t smell it—but your
dog does—and learns to stay away. Helps train

, your dog. Protects females from
male dog annoyance.

Powder Chaperone $10°

pnstpnid

Generous package. Several months’
supply. SEND NO MONEY. Order
Powder Chaperone C.O.D., $1 plus
postage. Or send $1 and we pay
postage. Sudbury Laboratory, P. O.
Box 450, So. Sudbury, Mass.

 

 

 

Compliments Of
GALLUP and HADLEY
Attorneys and Counsellors-at-Law

DA NA T. GALLUP 6 BEACON ST..
EDWIN W. HADLEY BOSTON, MASS.

 

 

 

 

 

 

NEW ENGLAND ANTI-GAMBLING
ASSOCIATION. INC.
6 BEACON ST., BOSTON, MASS.

“We compliment the M. S. P. C. A. on its
noble work to prevent cruelty to racing
animals.”

EDWIN W. HADLEY, President

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
 
 

  
   
 

HELP KEEP YOUR COMPLEXION CLEAR OF

BlACKHEADS

WITH DAILY USE OF MILDLY MEDICATED

‘llllll
lllhu . .. .. ,
. m" -,~ -. ,,.. . 3", v1;

'. " .. ,I , 1

  
  

 
 

 

 

- 57h§A3P".Al§o
c murmur '

 

 

l

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

 

Humane literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For sale by the American Humane Education Society and the Massachusetts 5. P. C. A.,

180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass, at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold—face type are of books or booklets

Humane Calendar for 1941, less than six, each, 15 cts.
six for 80 cts., twelve for $1.50.

Our Dumb Animals, 1939, bound volume $1.00
Our Dumb Animals, 1936 and 1937, bound

volume, each ......................... .75
Colored Posters, 17 x 22 inches, eight in

the set ................. 5 cts. each; eight for 35 cts.

Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 6%, x 3% $0.50 per 100

About the Horse

 

Black Beauty (English), cloth ............ 50 cts.
The Horse Treatment of Sores, etc.....$0.60per100
Humane Education Leaflet, N0. 5 ........ .50 “ “
The Horse’s Prayer ...................... .30 “ “
The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow... .50 “ “
About the Dog
Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 .......... small, 50 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post—card—$l.00 per 100
The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease .60 “ “
Feeding 'the Dog and the Cat, Dr.

Schneider .............................. 2.00 “ “
Important Advice on Feeding the Dog

and the Cat — A Supplement by Dr.

Rudolph H. Schneider ................. 1.00 “ “
Humane Education Leaflets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ “
What the Chained Dog Says ............. .50 “ “
The Story of Barry .................... .30 “ “
“Don” and His Boy Scout Friends, J. P.

Lyons .................................. .50 “ “
Road Accidents to Dogs, 4 pp. ........ Free
Boots' Day, play, for two boys and three

girls ..................... 3 cts. each, five for 10 cts.

About the Bird
The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus. ........ cloth, $0.45
Trial of the Birds, play, 3 cts. ea.; 12 for
25 cts. ................................ $2.00 per 100

Humane Education Leaflets, Nos. 1 and 2 .50 “ “
How the Birds Help the Farmer ........ .50 “ “
The Air-Gun and the Birds .............. .50 “ “

About the Cat

The Cat——Its Care in Health and Disease.$0.60 per 100
The Cat in Literature ................... .50 “ “
DO Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ...... .50 “ “
Mollie \Vhitefoot’s Vacation ............. .50 “ “
“The Beggar Cat,” post—card, 6 cts. doz. .50 “ “

About Other Animals

The Strike at Shane’s, cloth, 30 cts. paper, 7cts.
For l’ity’s Sake ........................ paper, 5 cts.
The Great Cruelty Again, Dr. Rowley.... Free
First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8pp.$1.00 per 100
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. .50 “
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. 1.00 “ “
Humane Education Leaflet, NO. 6, Animals .50 “ “

\Vays of Kindness ....................... .50
Humane Education Leaflet, No 7, Farm

Animals ................................ .50 “ “
A “'ise Fish ............................ .50 “ “

The Jack London Club
Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth. T5 cts.
\\ hat IS the Jack London Club?. . . . . . . . . $0.520 per 100

Foreword from “Michael Brother of Jerry”$0.30 per 100
Films, Fakes and Facts, Helen Trevelyan

4 pp. .................................. 00
D0 Wild Animals Prefer Captivity? Helen - .. ..
Trevelyan, 4 pp. ................... 00
Trained Animals — Cruelty Disguised, H ..
Helen T'revelyan, 4 pp. ................ .50
Humane Education
The Animal or the Child, Dr. Rowley... Free
Humane Education, An Activity of the
National Congress of Parents and
Teachers, by Dr. Francis H. Rowley Free
The Relation of the Home to Character
Formation, Dr. Francis H. Rowley .. Free=
Humane Education and Spiritual Values,
Dr. Rowley .......................... gig:

For Parents and Teachers, Plan of Work
The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools
96 pp. ................... 12- cents each; ten for $1.00
Care and Kindness for Our Animal
Friends, 32 pp., paper covers, many
‘ illus. .................. 10 cts. each; twelve for $1.00
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu—
cation, 32 pp. ........................
An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.
Gilbert, 48 pp. For first and second

each, 10 cts.

each, 10 cts.

grades ................................
“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ‘. ...... each 25 cts.
The Humane Idea, Dr. Franc1s H. .-

Rowley .............................. cloth, 3:) cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use) Sarah J. Eddy ............ cloth, $1.00
The B—K—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 25c.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,”

play ........................ 3 cts. each; ten for 250.
Friends of F’ur and Feather, play ...... _

3 cts. each; ten for 2a cts.

Humane Sunday ....................... . 10. each

I’ll Never Hunt Again, play 3 cts. each; ﬁve for 10 cts.

The Best Gift, play ......... 2 cts. each; six for 10 cts.

Humane Exercises ....................... $1.50 per 100

Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.
Rowley, short radio address, 2cts. each; .75
Humane Education, What to Teach and

“ (6

HOW to Teach It ...................... .50 “ “
Outlines of Study in Humane Education 1.50 “ “
Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty .. .50 “

A Talk with the Teacher ............... .50 “ “

Our Love for Animals, a short radio

address ..................... 2 cts. each; 1.00 “ “
Bookmark, with “A Humane Prayer” .. 1.00 “ ”
A Festival of Tender Mercies ........... .50 “ “
Need of Humane Education Societies

and Methods of Forming Them ........ .50 “ “
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley .......... Free

Band of Mercy

“Be Kind to Animals Buttons," three

stvIes—~Band Of Mercy, Humane SO—

ciety, or S. P. C. A. ................... $1.00 per 100

Buttons—white star on blue ground with
gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00

( ll

Badges, gold finish, large, 10 cts., small 5cts.
“Band of Mercy" pennant ............. 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.

J. Eddy .............................. 50 cts.
Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words

only) .................................. $3.00 per 100
Band Of Mercy Membership Card ........ .50 “ “
HOW to Form Bands of Mercy .......... .50 “

Does it Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30 ” “

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Pag698 OUR DUIUB

ANIMALS _ May, 194:

 

 

 

 

" 35-: ~ ' .' ; ‘.- 5:":
312%»sz seals/ht -3. git-:22...

"Buck” the Educated Dog

CLIFTON E. WILSON

NE member of the Lewiston, Idaho, family of

approximately 410 licensed dogs does not follow

the yen of members of his clan by chasing cars,
digging bones and VOther canine pursuits but instead
holds one of the most noteworthy positions of any animal
in America—he is one of the few dogs in the nation to
attend daily classes at school.

The pet, “Buck,” four-year-old German police belong-
ing to Margie Woods, 11, daughter of. Mr. and Mrs. Bob
Woods, Lewiston, hasn’t been tardy or absent this school
year from classes in the sixth grade taught by Miss
Laura E. King in the training school of the Lewiston

“BUCK” LIES FACING THE DESK OF HIS MISTRESS, MARGIE WOODS (THIRD FROM LEFT)

 

State Normal. The big dog is a model student, never
disturbing class work, and at the end of the term will
receive “A” grades in attendance and conduct, Miss
King says.

Buck and Margie are constant companions at home,
school and play, and the dog’s intelligence is shown by
his ability to recognize Margie’s footsteps from all others
even when suddenly awakened from a deep sleep.

Perhaps his most outstanding achievement was the
discovery in a city park of Margie’s bicycle several hours
after it had been stolen. Although he is a one-girl dog,
Buck shows casual friendliness toward all who meet him.

 

Please Be Careful

Our big gray cat, old “Mollie”—
We think a lot of her.

Her eyes are green and shiny,
You ought to hear her purr!

Just a little while ago
She had four little kittens;
And, oh, they were so cunning!
(We 'put two in our mittens.)

by IDA KENNISTON

One day Mollie crossed the street.
A car came racing by;

The driver never stovped to look;
And, oh, how we did cry!

Those little kits are orphans!
We miss old Mollie so!
PLEASE, if YOU drive an auto,
Be careful how you go.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 96

A Beaver Insurrection

ELEANOR EVINS STEWART

HOUGH Uncle Sam has always found

a way of suppressing insurrection
among his colonies, and of dealing forci-
bly with those who hinder the work of
the Government, still, there is a deter—
mined colony down in the Deep South
which is now giving him so much trouble,
and so seriously delaying one of his de—
fense programs, the state militia, in the
form of the Conservation Department,
has had to be called in to suppress the
uprising, since Uncle Sam himself seems
powerless in this matter.

At Selma, Alabama, where a tremen-
dous new Air Training School is being
constructed, the engineer in charge of
the drainage project found his work so
blocked by a fast working and tireless
colony of beavers that he undertook to
oust them. Now, beavers are among the
state’s most valuable and highly prized
fur—bearing animals, and are protected
by a closed season in an effort to encour-
age their rapid spread to streams and
woodland areas, for ﬂood control is aided
and ﬁshing conditions improved by their
presence. So how to get rid of them,
without killing or injuring them, was the
problem.

The number of beavers in the colony
was estimated at ﬁfty, and no sooner was
scientiﬁc drainage begun than the
beavers, seemingly resentful of Govern-
ment trespass on their territory, and al—
most overnight, closed the drains with
those remarkable dams which only these
“ﬂattails” can build. Patiently, at ﬁrst,
the engineer at the Air Field undid
their work, going on with his. At
length, however, he appealed to the State
Conservation Department for help. In
response came State Trapper Gleeton,
with beaver traps which catch without
injury, and he with the assistance of the
local game warden, set the traps.

Their ﬁrst catch was Papa Beaver, a
ﬁne specimen weighing forty pounds.
and estimated at the age of four years.
He was uninjured and was immediately
transported to the home of the game
warden where comfortable quarters were
established for him—a pen especially
prepared for him, where he was fed on
sweetgum limbs, sweet potatoes and dry
corn. The next catch was Baby Beaver,
known as a “kit,” weighing two and a
half pounds. Unlike his stolid papa, he
pined at his imprisonment and refused
to eat, causing his captors and guardians
considerable worry. But, next day, when
Mama Beaver fell into the trap and was
transported to the pen where the two
others of her family were established,
Baby Beaver took a new interest in life
and seemed quite happy and contented.
It is thought that there are three other
kits which belong to this family, and as

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

ﬂlay,1941

 

CHIPMUNKS FEEDING IN ESTES PARK, COLORADO

LL along the highway in Estes Park, Colorado, there are wide places in the

road so that travelers may get out and see the lovely views. At these places,
chipmunks are so tame that they come up to people for nuts, and eat from their
hands. It is great fun to feed the little animals, and almost everyone does it.
Sometimes their cheeks are puffed way out because they are so full of nuts.

 

 

soon as they are trapped, the little colony
will be carried to another section where
they can take up their residence.

It is not likely that all of the others
of the original colony of ﬁfty will be
trapped, but certain it is none of them
will be hurt in any way by the workers
at the Air Field, even though they have
given these same workers much annoy-
ance. Uncle Sam’s soldiers can undoubt»
edly wipe out all human invaders, but it
is a tribute to the glory of the Army
and the Government that they have taken
such pains to protect the helpless and
innocent animals that so persistently
opposed them.

Time Without a Clock

KENNETH P. WOOD

THE general idea of time which all
living things possess is perhaps keen-
est in domestic animals. Dogs, cats,
horses, donkeys and others that know
certain days in the week and hours in
the day without clock or almanac, may
be guided by observing little events
which we do not, but which will show
them the time. On the other hand, they
may even feel the position of the sun,
though it cannot be seen. However this
may be, they possess a sense which we
can only admire and envy.

By the same token, however, it is pos-
sible for one to tell the time from ani—
mals and birds. So long as there is a cat
anywhere handy it is not necessary to
have a watch, for the feline’s eyes will
tell the time of day. Their eyes grow
gradually narrower up to twelve noon,
when they become scarcely perceptible

lines, drawn perpendicularly across the
eyeball. After that, dilation again begins.

If one lives in the country during the
summer months, he will have no need for
a timepiece in the early morning hours if
he understands the songs of the birds.

According to a schedule recently com-
pleted by a naturalist, the chaffinch be-
gins his song at about 1:30 A. M., and
the blackcap starts an hour later. From
2:30 to 3 the quail whistle, with hedge
sparrows following them in about a half
hour. Then come the blackbirds, after
which the larks take over, until the spar-
rows start to chirp at 5 o’clock. From
then on a regular symphony is heard for
an hour or two, until the songsters must
begin their daily routine.

Migratory birds know not only the
need for their journeys, but the ﬁxed
times for them. It has been thought that
the rules of. their airy road have been
handed down from generation to gener-
ation, but this is not always true. Noth-
ing is positively known, except that the
travelers are in search of food or quiet
nesting places, when they move from one
part of the country to the other.

As the time draws near for birds of
passage to travel, they seem to know it
by an inward restlessness—they long to
be away—they know that delay is dan-
gerous, and, so marked is this longing to
be gone, that migratory birds kept back
by accident or willful cruelty, often die
of the desire to be off. The young cuckoo
never survives an attempt to detain him.

Please remember the Massachusetts
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals when making your will. See
last page for details about annuities.

 




 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Page 36

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Feb. 191,1

Bands of Mercy or Junior Humane Leagues

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

HE ﬁrst juvenile organ-
ll ization in this country

pledging children to kind-
ness to animals was founded by
Geo. T. Angell and the Rev.
Thomas Timmins in Boston,
Massachusetts, on July 28,
1882. Since then no less than
255,709 units of the Band of
Mercy have been organized and
reported to the ofﬁce of the
Societies which Mr. Angell
founded. They are principally
in elementary schools, but may
consist of any group of thirty
or more, regardless of age, who
are willing to take this simple

PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all
living creatures and try to
protect them from cruel usage.

Various Humane Societies
throughout the country have on
their staff a director of Hu—
mane Education whose chief
duty is to visit schools, talk on
kindness to animals, and help
teachers to organize the juve-
nile groups. To such groups,
when properly reported, the

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

 

E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer

American Humane Education
Society of Boston will send
a supply of free literature and
a gilt badge for the president.

The American Humane Edu-
cation Society has at present
ten ﬁeld workers in as many

different states, who, among
other activities, engage in this
work.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Eight hundred and thirty-
nine new Bands of Mercy were
reported 01 u r i n g December.
These were distributed as fol—
lows:

Illinois ................ 391
Texas .................. 150
South Carolina ........ 70
Georgia ................ 67
Rhode Island .......... 46
Florida ................ 35
Virginia ............... 28
Massachusetts .......... 24
Maine ................. 17
Pennsylvania ........... 9
Vermont ............... 2

Total number Bands of

Mercy organized by Parent-
American Society, 255,709.

 

SCAR” is a strange pet. Stranger
0 even than “Bumpus” the pet turtle

that moves about the living-room
of a friend of mine with a slow and
steady air of possession. Stranger than
monkeys, lizards, snakes and other unique
pets that people like.

Yes, Oscar is more unusual than any
of these, for Oscar is a praying mantis,
an insect native to our southern states.

It was from the South Peggy Mason
received him. Nicely packed in a box
with a tag, “Oscar,” he was sent by one
of her school friends. And no sooner did
he arrive in her old-fashioned Connecti—
cut home, than he took for his favorite
nook the sunny bay-window that was
ﬁlled with plants, the color of which
made him almost indiscernible as he
lighted on the green leaves. “A katydid,”
her friends ﬁrst exclaimed as they saw
him among the fern fronds. But Oscar is
not a katydid and instead of being named
for what he sa s, he is named for the
position that his long slender front legs
cause him to assume. This is an attitude
of prayer, which, of course, accounts for
his being called a “praying mantis.” In
the South he is known as “rear—horse,”

A Strange Pet

HARRIET SMITH HAWLEY

and in Europe as “camel cricket” and
sometimes “mule-killer.”

But Oscar doesn’t care what he is called
as long as he gets plenty of insects to
feed his voracious appetite. Peggy just
has to scurry around to ﬁnd enough to
supply him. Female mantes, they say,
when they can ﬁnd no other insects or
bugs, eat up their husbands. And
through such acrobatic stunts do they
go when there are a number of them
together that in Japan and China they
sometimes cage them and bet on the win—
ner of the combats much as in Mark
Twain’s story of “The Jumping Frog.”

Peggy enjoys having Oscar for a pet
because she never knows just what he
will do next, and keeping track of him is
quite a job, for with his short broad
wings he can ﬂit about gaily. Then,
when he seizes upon a ﬂy with his fore-
legs that are provided with sharp hooks
like spines that can hold his prey like
a vise, Oscar looks about as ﬁerce as a
cross dog with a bone. Flies are his
specialty and with his big protruding
eyes in his angular head, very few
escape him.

So when one day Peggy went up in her

old-fashioned attic and found it buzzing
with ﬂies and a few wasps, she decided
to take Oscar up and see what kind of a
job he would do in cleaning them out.

Oscar ﬂitted down through the big at-
tic straight for the biggest ﬂy on the
window and Peggy, seeing that he was
for going right to work, went down
stairs and closed the door.

Returning in a couple of hours to note
his progress, she heard not a buzz nor
saw a single ﬂy. Surely Oscar was a
champion ﬂy exterminator.

But where was Oscar? She could not
ﬁnd him anywhere until she came down
to the living-room where a friend was
waiting to take her for a ride.

“Oh, Peggy,” she cried, “do you know
Oscar is perched on your shoulder?”

And glancing in the mirror she saw
him sitting on the shoulder of her green
sweater and in his best praying attitude.

“He loOks,” said Peggy, “as if he is en—
joying this trick he’s played on me but
maybe he’s just resting after his big din-
ner of attic ﬂies.”

But Oscar only looked wiser than ever
as he ﬂew for his favorite fern.

 




 

Feb. 1941

Children—HomeSéGuns

FROM time to time the year around the
press reports that a child 15 years of
age or younger has killed a relative, a
playmate or a neighbor. The verdict “ac-
cident” is absurd when guns are kept in
bureau drawers or on open shelves in
homes and children know where they are
and what they are for.

In 1940 cases have been reported of
premeditated murder by children. At
least three such cases in one state re-
sulted in sentences by courts.

The victims are generally younger
playmates. A girl 12 and a boy 15 en-
gaged in a sham battle, both shooting
and one was wounded.

One boy 14 played William Tell with
his brother seven. He hit a series of ob-
jects from the smaller boy’s head before
a bullet hit the victim’s head.

One child two years old killed his baby
sister.

It is obvious that all the cases, other
than deliberate murder, are possible be-
cause too many parents keep too many
guns in homes. Weapons are accessible
to curious, playful and boastful children
as well as to angry ones.

Too many children know too much
about guns. ALICE PARK

Strong for Humane Education

Dr. Bertram E. Packard, Commis-
sioner of Education in Maine, recently
was elected president of the National
Council of State School Ofﬁcers, an asso-
ciation made up of state education com-
missioners and superintendents. Dr.
Packard is a staunch supporter of the
humane education work being done in
his state by Miss Lucia Fessenden Gil-
bert, under the direction of the American
Humane Education Society.

Practical Sympathy
Editor, Our Dumb Animals:

There are a lot of sea gulls in the
Charles River, Boston, at Drawbridge
No. 1. The railroad men feed them bits
of bread, etc., and they have become
quite tame. One day one of the sea gulls
with one leg bitten off appeared at John
Reynold’s switch shanty in Yard No. 20,
B. & M. R. R., Charlestown. John took
the sea gull in hand, kept him in the
shanty and fed him until the leg healed.
Then .the gull appeared regularly for the
bread and meat that John saved for him
from his lunch.

Mr. Reynolds, who lives at 37 Leverett
Street, Boston, lost his leg while on duty
and has an artiﬁcial leg. A few weeks
ago he sustained a shock; his whole right
side is paralyzed; he will never work
again. FRED H. SIDNEY

Harvard, Mass.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 33

Wild Ducks of Many Kinds

HENRY H. GRAHAM

ILD ducks are among the most
Winteresting forms of migratory

life. This is true, to some extent,
because of the many different kinds.
Probably the most common is the mallard
which is still plentiful in spite of heavy
shooting. Teal, one of the smallest kinds,
is also abundant. Not
nearly so common as
years ago are the can—
vasback, redhead and
butterball. The wood
duck has been so greatly .
reduced in numbers that
it is now protected by
law.

Members of the web-
f o o t fraternity n e s t
chiefly in the far north
where there are many
lakes and sloughs. Many
parts of Canada are
thronged with waterfowl
during the spring and
summer months. Here
the downy little duck-
lings are born an d
reared. When the
weather gets bad in the fall they head
south just as do songbirds and other
forms of feathered life. They ﬂy in great
V-shaped ﬂocks, following a leader.

En route south the ﬂocks pause fre-
quently at waterways to feed and rest.
Flying, when prolonged, as in the migra-
tion period, exhausts them, and rest is
sorely needed. Mallards are known as
“puddle ducks.” That is, they prefer the
shallow water around the shore to feed.
It is a pleasing sight to see these ducks,
their tails pointing straight upward into
the air as they reach for succulent
grasses near the muddy bottoms of
sloughs and ponds. While feeding they
keep rigidly alert for danger and burst
into ﬂight at the slightest suspicion of
enemies. The mallard is one of the wari-
est of all ducks.

Webfeet have a beak that acts as a
sieve or strainer through which water
readily drains, allowing the grasses and
other solid food to remain. Some ducks
are more particular about their food than
others; teal sometimes partake of ﬁsh or
even maggots found in decaying animal
matter. Coots, also known as mud hens,
frequent the boggy shores of ponds feed-
ing on almost anything available. They
have pointed bills, whereas most highly
edible ducks have broad bills.

In the early spring the northward mi-
gration begins. The birds ﬂy back to
colder climates to nest and raise broods
of young ones. It is the same cycle year
after year.

Often ducks are injured and unable to
feed themselves properly. They then

GREEN-WINGED TEAL

grow thin and undernourished. When
wounded they conceal themselves in cat-
tails and reeds until they regain the
ability to dive and ﬂy.

Ducks are plagued by many diseases,
the worst of which is botulism, caused
by decaying vegetation. They are also

 

plagued by many enemies, chief of which
is man. But animals also prey on them.
Coyotes, mink, cougars and other crea-
tures are fond of duck as food. Wild
ducks lead anything but an easy life but
they lead one that is packed with interest
to human eyes.

 

IN THE EDITOR’S LIBRARY

 

MY COUNTRY —— THE AMERICA I
KNEW, Clarence Hawkes.

Another book from the versatile and un-
tiring pen of Clarence Hawkes! Several of
his nature studies have been reviewed in
these columns, and probably many of our
readers are familiar with some of his
numerous books. This latest one is decidedly
auto-biographical as it contains much per-
sonal matter that will interest all his fol-
lowers. But it is almost impossible to sug-
gest its scope in a brief review, so many
different subjects are covered. In these
pages we meet the most of the prominent
naturalists of the author’s day, including
Theodore Roosevelt and other Presidents.

Well has Charles G. D. Roberts written:
“I have read many of Clarence Hawkes’
books and have always found them true to
nature, and of gripping interest. Books that
it would be safe to and proﬁtable to put in
the hands of any young reader whom you
wished to introduce to the denizens of
nature.”

Of the eight illustrations which embellish
the book, two show Mr. Hawkes listening to
the birds, one shows him with his dog, and
another with Mrs. Hawkes and the family
cat as well as the dog.

230 pp. $2. Chapman & Grimes, Boston.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 34

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Feb. 191,1

Metropolitan Killdeer

 

HE ability of the killdeer to conceal
Tits nest and eggs is surpassed by
few other birds. To the average bird
lover this is not immediately obvious.
He knows the habits of the bird, and the
eggs laid in a crude “nest” of bits of
wood and small stones he can easily ﬁnd.
But the ordinary person, not knowing
the bird, may all but step on the eggs
and never see them.
The nest pictured here is one of four
such nests observed last spring in a
small tract of ﬁlled ground in the Dyker

A Big Friend and Helper

WILLIS MEHANNA

The large, blue or whooping crane is
the largest of the crane family found in
North America and is of a bluish or slate
color with white in the center crown
bordered by black. Black and white are
on its chest. Its bill is yellow and its legs
black. These birds are very shy and are
oftenest seen in ﬂight or wading in out—
of—the-way ponds and streams. Notwith-
standing their scarcity and shyness they
are useful birds for they live on lizards,
snakes, ﬁeld mice and insects. They nest
in marshy places and lay two olive-gray
eggs spotted with cinnamon markings.
Since conservation or forestry plots con-
taining ponds have been made on many
farms of the Middle West and other
places these cranes are seen oftener al-
though they are far from plentiful. To a
naturalist and bird lover the birds are
both beautiful and interesting. Since
they are not desirable game birds and
are absolutely harmless it is to be hoped
that hunters will not destroy them. Or-
ganizations and individuals should unite
in their protection.

KILLDEER ON NEST, DYKER BEACH,
BROOKLYN, N. Y.

L. L. REED

 

Beach section of Brooklyn, New York.
All of the nests were not more than a
stone’s throw from the new belt Park-
way then just reaching completion. Hun—
dreds of people daily walked within a
few feet of the nests. There were two
baseball diamonds in the ﬁeld and this
nest was within seventy-ﬁve feet of the
“home plate” of one. Boys waiting for
their turn at bat sat within ﬁfty feet of
the eggs.

The camera lens is much sharper than
my eyes. I stood about ﬁve feet from

Morning
Anna M. Flynt

There's a twitter and a flutter
In the drooping pepper tree,
As the little birds awaken,
There’s a chiding little ”Chee!"
’Tis the mother bird a-soothing
The babies in the nest,
As she draws a little closer
Her darlings to her breast.

But the noise has waked the father,
And he hops upon a limb '

And begins to tune his throttle,
Then to sing his morning hymn.

First, a sleepy little gurgle,

Then, a soul entrancing trill,
Like the music of the water

As it ripples down the hill.
Now he soars in joyous rapture

Till my soul is upward drawn
While I feel the dewy kisses

Of the sweet, refreshing down.

For particulars about the state—wide
school humane poster contest, now under
way, address, Secretary, Massachusetts
S. P. C. A., Boston.

 

EGGS OF THE KILLDEER, DYKER BEACH,

   

BROOKLYN, N. Y.

the nest and searched the bare ground
for several minutes before locating the
eggs. The camera, in black and white,
cannot do justice to the perfect blending
of the eggs with the bits of sticks and
refuse that make up the nest.

It was gratifying to note that invari-
ably the small boys were lured away
from the nest by one of the birds feinting
a broken wing. Although the birds, in
some cases, had to dodge stones thrown
by the boys they were always too agile
to be hit.

A Word from France

Just as we go to press we have re-
ceived the following letter which speaks
for itself:

January 4, 1941
Dear Sir:

Please ﬁnd enclosed my contribution
for the Massachusetts S. P. C. A. I am
sorry I was late in sending it, but I have
been in France for the past two years
and a half, doing relief work for the last

eighteen months, and have only just come
back.

You might like to know that the
French S. P. C. A. has been very active
ever since the beginning of the war. So
many animals and small pets had to be
left behind by the people ﬂeeing their
homes, and now, when people have hardly
enough food for themselves and their
families, the S. P. C. A. workers have a
hard time caring for abandoned and
stray animals.

I am glad of this opportunity to tell
you how much I enjoy your magazine.

Sincerely yours,

L. BOURGOIN
Northampton, Mass.

 




 

 

 

 

July, 1941

66J0_J099
Dorothy McCurdy Thomas

They say he is only a dog and is dumb—-

And yet, when I call him, I know he will
come.

His stubby tail wagging, he waits at my
knee—

I wish that all men were as faithful as he.

He never complains he’s neglected and sad;

A pot of the hand makes him merry and
glad.

Unquestioning, trusting, wherever I be—

I wish that all men were as faithful as he.

He growls out a challenge if danger comes
near;

Each order obeys without whimper or fear.

Regardless of others, his faith is in me—

I wish that all men were as faithful as he.

Oh, yes, he is only a dog, you may say;

Yet I can depend on him, day after day.

I think this old world would a better place
be

If only all men were as faithful as he.

“Sandy” at Hospital Door

HE was just a stray dog. Nobody
seemed to own him, or to want him.
If there ever was a dog that was in need
of a friend just then, “Sandy” was the
one. It was last September that he was
picked up as a stray and taken to the
Springﬁeld Branch, Angell Animal Hos-
pital, given a good scrubbing, fed the
kind of food little dogs like, and treated
with abundant kindness. And now Sandy
just cannot, and he never will, forget the
place where he found friends when he
was so desperately in need of them.

After a stay of a few weeks, Sandy
was adopted by a ﬁne family near the
Shrine Hospital for Crippled Children
in Springﬁeld, nearly ﬁve miles away.
Within a few days Sandy was missing,
but not for long, as within a half hour
or so a telephone call was received advis—
ing the family that Sandy was back at
the hospital. The owner came down and
took Sandy home a second time. Again
Sandy was missed and Within twenty
minutes his owner received another call
to come down and get his dog. And now
the owner has to come down and get his
dog on an average of ﬁve times every
month.

The intelligence of Sandy is unusual,
for the 5-mile route from his adopted
home to the animal hospital runs right
through the most densely settled and
busiest part of Springﬁeld, including two
miles of the always crowded, always dan—
gerous Main Street.

The accompanying photograph is by
Frederick Ruther, staff photographer of
the Union, Springﬁeld, Mass.

OUR DUMB

 

ANIMALS

’ /’. A
1%” %

“SANDY” AT DOOR OF ANGELL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL, SPRINGFIELD, MASS.

Page 137

dreaming of Mrs.
Bouncer last night, he
exclaimed in one letter.
“I send my loving and
respectful duty to her,”
he wrote in another
letter.

He had for her a
special tone of voice
which he never used
when calling or speak-
ing to the other dogs.

The other dogs were
“Don,” a splendid New-
foundland; “Gypsy,” a
mongrel of no notice-
able qualities; “Tim-
ber Doodle,” a small
white Havana spaniel,
which Mr. Dickens
brought to England
after one of his visits
to this country: “Sul-
tan,” an Irish blood-
hound, who, to quote
his master, “fell into
the ways of the family
with a grace and dig-
nity that denotes the
gentleman ;” “Bumble,”
the namesake of the
beadle in “Oliver
Twist,” because of a
“peculiarly p o m p o u S
and overbearing man-
ner he had of appearing
to mount guard over
the yard when he was
an absolute infant.”

 

Charles Dickens and His Dogs
AMELIA WOFFORD

HARLES DICKENS loved animals
and was watchful of those about
him.

He did not care for rabbits and guinea
pigs for pets, but permitted the children
to have them under the strict condition
that they should be well tended, fed regu-
larly, the hutches kept clean and com-
fortable, andthat the children should do
the work unassisted by others.

Every morning before he sat at his
writing table, he Visited the stable and
the kennels. At Gad’s Hill, his last resi-
dence, the stable was occupied only by
the children’s pony and a sturdy horse
that served the family in different ways
for many years, while eight dogs occu-
pied the kennels.

“Turk,” a ﬁne mastiff, and “Linda,”
a gentle, soft-eyed St. Bernard, accom—
panied the author on his drives and
walks, but his favorite was “Mrs.
Bouncer,” the pure white Pomeranian
belonging to his daughter Mamie. When
away from home he mentioned her fre—
quently in his letters. “Think of my

What About the Blue Jay?

ROBERT SPARKS WALKER

It is amazing that the prejudice
again the blue jay is growing so rapidly,
and people are killing them by the
scores. The reason given is that they
destroy the eggs of other birds. When
I ask them to describe their observa-
tions I ﬁnd that none of them has ever
seen a blue jay in the act, but has only
heard that he is a criminal.

I have been associating with blue jays
in the wild for a little over ﬁfty years.
I can say truthfully that never in my
life have I observed one of them destroy-
ing the eggs of other birds. I do not
deny that others may have seen such an
act of the jay, but some people do not
stop to think that birds are human in
their habits, and that an occasional
criminal may be found. I dare make the
prediction that if we had the personal
records of all the jays we would not ﬁnd
one in two hundred of the mean kind.
It is just as unjust (or silly, I should
say) to insist on taking the life of every
man because we have had a John Dil-
linger in the race.

 

 

 

 

 




 

Feb. 1941

    

.nnnflvyymrj'

  
 

    

VJ’
.. . -<<//.//I/m«mmw.“ “‘3 .

3", ”puny/nrpﬂrmnu"

. . '- ~_. ...'_ " .."
I.I’””"'""’I”"I""H ‘ n.

J immy’s Deer-mouse Wish
BERTHA REYNOLDS HUDELSON

The deer mice dart across the snow
And leave a million tracks, or so,

Like those of tiny, tiny birds!

I really haven’t half the words

To tell how different deer mice are;
They’re much more wonderful, by far,
Than other creatures, though they chew
Just as their naughty cousins do.

My folks cry, “Goodness! Oooh! A pest!”
But I know where there is a nest

Beneath a stone down by the brook,

And I sit still as still and; look,

And listen, while they squeak and play

In their dainty deer-mouse way.

They flash, small streaks of brown and white,
Big ears up straight—a lovely sight——

And leap, and nip each other’s tails,
Then skim along as if with sails.

I wish I knew a secret how

To stop their nibbling habits now,
And, if my mother would agree,
And, if I could—quite carefully——
I’d catch the one I call Coquette,
And have a deer-mouse for a pet.

Mischievous Crow Attends School

ENNETH JOHNSON, of Eagle Rock, California,

has a pet crow who follows him to school each day.
Not only that but the bird screeches “Oh boy” right in
the middle Of the arithmetic lesson. He snatches food
out Of the lunch boxes belonging to the little children in
the kindergarten, and, worst of all, he also steals pencils
out of the pupils’ desks.

“Blackie” ﬂies along to school each day with Kenneth
and stays around all day, poking his naughty bill into
everything that goes on.

A friend of Kenneth’s found the bird when it was just
a ﬂedgling, about a year ago, lying in a gutter with a
broken wing. After the wing had mended, the boy let
the bird free. But Blackie preferred to stay around—so
Kenneth eventually became his master.

Stories about this saucy crow are told by Miss Eleanor
Hicks, principal Of San Rafael grammar school, who says
that the black crow is the school’s mascot, and she has
had many a laugh over its strange antics. Her favorite
stories are how Blackie snatched some grapes from one
Of the girls during the: lunch hour, and how the next day
he stole some cookies and buried them under a eucalyptus
tree. Also, how he stole a pencil from one Of the children’s
desks and then returned it the next day as if his con-
science was troubling him. LEO KOCH

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

37'

_.
-
~
‘—
.~
-—.
...
'—
.-
.c
a
.—
‘-
.
u

    

" \*‘\\iii‘\\i\‘ﬁ\f\"\<<§§{

\lll‘l:

mm x
x. {5’1
“"‘l :4

.i \K‘rﬂ

mu '4, ..

His Daily Good Turn
JOHN BROOK PENFOLD

R ICHARD H. MOORE, a seventeen—year-Old Boy
Scout Of Washington, D. C., recently followed some
ﬁremen to an old abandoned well in the suburbs. Someone
had reported that a dog had fallen into the well. The ﬁre-
men could not locate the animal with ﬂashlights and left.
Dick, m e a n—
time, had lis-
tened to those
who had tele-
phoned f o r
help, and was
comvinced
t h a t s O m e-
one’s pet was
in the bottom
of the well.

Later, Rich-
ard returned
with a boy
friend and
som e strong
lights. By
ch anc e, the
beams f r O m
t h e f l a s h-
lights illumi-
nated a small
white spot in
the bottom of
the well; the
white spot 1
was movmg .. ,,
around. The RICHARD MOORE AND SNOOKY
boys raced back to the Fire Station to tell about it.

A bit skeptical, the men called their Chief, and he
ordered them back tO the well. Upon arriving, the ﬁremen
could see the dog, but none of them wanted to descend
the ﬁfty feet on a rope to rescue it.

Dick used his knowledge Of knots and arranged loops
in two ropes, one for himself and one for the dog. Within
ﬁfteen minutes the boy and dog were on solid ground.

The dog, upon being released, started on a wabbly
bee—line for home and master. A bit later, when Mrs.
Niel Bach, owner Of the dog, “Snooky,” Offered Dick
money for rescuing her pet, the boy declined with the
customary Scout answer, “Thanks, I’m a Boy Scout, I
didn’t do it for money.”

 

33/;

Answers to “The Doctor’s Strange Animals” puzzle
last month: 1. Rhinoceros. 2. Chinchillas. 3. Polecats.
4. Armadillos. 5. Gazelles. 6. Antelopes. 7. Camelopards.
8. Cheetahs. 9. Panthers. 10. Wolverines. 11. Rabbits.
12. Hippopotamus.

 




 

 

o I “NOE

u I[ll'lMark Registered -‘ H].

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,

Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,

Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
—COWPER

AND MERCY 'r‘o
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

 

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

Entered as second-class matter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Office at Norwood, Mass., under the Act of March 3, 1879
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Boston Ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

Vol. 74

February, 1941

No. 2

 

It was reported in December last, from
Greece, that thousands of mules used in
their war have had to be destroyed by
Italians because of lack of hay and grain
or other means of feeding them. Doubt-
less such a death is better than starva-
tion and mutilation.

So bound up are we in the great bundle
of life that the innocent suffer with the
guilty, and through no fault of them-
selves. So too are millions of animals in
warring countries suffering victims of a
war for which they are no more respon—
sible than the stars above them. In a
world of law, how could it be otherwise?

It was in 1840 that the world’s ﬁrst
adhesive postage stamp was printed.
Forty-seven years after, the ﬁrst postage
stamp bearing the picture of a dog was
issued, in honor of the Newfoundland,
and again in 1932 Newfoundland paid
its tribute to its namesake.

An effort is being made to have the
Post Ofﬁce Department of the United
States issue a postage stamp bearing the
imprint of Henry Bergh, the founder in
1866 of the ﬁrst society for the preven-
tion of cruelty to animals in America.
Your letter to the Postmaster General at
Washington will help toward this end.

The president of our two Societies
wishes he could write personally every
kind friend who remembered him with a
Christmas card. He hopes that this brief
word will convey to each one his sincere
appreciation and his sincere hope that
the New Year will bring all possible
health and happiness.

Cruelty and the Movies

LEADING San Francisco news-

paper declares that the most notable
achievement during the past year was
the securing of the assurance of Will H.
Hays, president of the Motion Picture
Producers Association, that the “Run—
ning W,” used for tripping horses in
“death scenes,” would be outlawed.

Mr. Hays informed Mr. Craven, who
is representing the humane movement of
the country in Hollywood, to secure as
far as possible the protection of all ani—
mals used in the making of motion pic~
tures, that any pictures in which the
device had been employed in production
would be barred by the Association cen-
sors. The Humane Association was also
assured that future questions pertaining
to the use of animals in the production of
motion pictures would be referred to it
for judgment.

All our readers will be glad to know
that extraordinary progress has been
made in regard to this much- discussed
subject du1ing the past year.

The army is seeking to purchase 20,000
horses to add to its cavalry equipment.
Horses are still needed for certain ma-
neuvering purposes in war that mecha-
nized devices cannot render. Alas for
these victims of man’s madness!

Every live humane society in the coun-
try will back up the Audubon organiza—
tion to stop the revival of the use, for
millinery purposes, of feathers taken
from all birds protected by law. Many a
business house and many a woman may
have to be charged with illegally having
such feathers in their possession.

An Astonishing Offer

WESTERN newspaper announces
that a certain wealthy philanthropist
of Dallas, Texas, by the name of C. V.
Compton has offered the attendants and
ofﬁcials of prisons in Texas, Virginia,
West Virginia, Colorado, South Carolina
and Tennessee, the six states where whip-
ping is practised, $200 each if they will
take the same lashings that are. given to
the prisoners for the violation of certain
prison rules. He even offers $1,000 to
the Governor of Texas if he will submit
to the same whipping. -
Needless to say, there is no rush on the
part of any of these prison ofﬁcials or
state officers to accept these generous
gifts. Mr. Compton, according to the re-
port, “has called attention to what he
considers a relic of barbarism that only
needs to be dragged into the light to be
sooner or later done away with.” He
states that this same question was dis—
cussed “in the British parliament over a
century ago by defenders of the delight-
ful custom of flogging sailors in the Eng-
lish navy, but the ﬂogging was done
away with and the King’s navy is still
giving a good account of itself.”

The Cat and the Collar

If any of our readers ever had, a cat
that wore a collar, caught by the collar
and injured or fatally hurt, wew’vish they
would let us know of it. Of "the tens of
thousands of cats brought to our Hospi-
tal, we have never heard of such an acci-
dent. Should cats ever have to be licensed
they would doubtless have to wear a col-
lar, and to this the objection is made that
many would lose their’lives as a result of
such an accident as above described.

 




 

 

 

 

 

Page 92

    
   

GLORY TO
GOD,
PEACE ON EARTH,
KINDNESS, JUSTICE
AND MERCY TO
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

   
 
      
    

Founded by Geo. T. Angell Incorporated 1889

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payabletto
Treasurer.

Officers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President and Ch. Fi-
nance Com., United Shoe Machinery Corporation

CHARLES E. SPENCER, JR., President, First National
Bank of Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

E. J. H. Escobar .................. Colombia
Luis Pareja Cornejo ............... Ecuador
Charles A. Williams ............... France
Leonard T. Hawksley .............. Italy

S. C. Batra ....................... India
Mrs. Mary P. E. N itobe ............ Japan
Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ....... Madeira
Dr. A. T. Ishkanian ............... Mexico
Mrs. Alice W. Manning ............ Turkey

Humane Press Bureau

 

——————— Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Field Workers of the Society

Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Illinois
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, South Carolina
Rev. R. E. Grifﬁth, De Land, Florida

Field Representative
Dr. Wm. F. H. Wentzel, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF FIELD
WORKERS FOR MARCH, 1941

Number of Bands of Mercy formed, 513
Number of addresses made, 288
Number of persons in audiences 47,386

Will Legislature Annul Law?

(Continued from page 83)

win, William P. Grant, James A. Gunn,
Cornelius F. Haley, Charles V. Hogan,
Newland H. Holmes, Jarvis Hunt, Thom—
as H. Johnston, Harold R. Lundgren,
Donald A. MacDonald, Charles G. Miles,
Joseph F. Montminy, Donald W. Nichol—
son, William E. Nolen, Charles W. Olson,
Tycho M. Petersen, George W. Stanton.

It is almost impossible to believe that
the Massachusetts Legislature will af-
front the thousands of humane people of
the State by passing Senate Bill 602.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Again from Far-01f Syria

UR representative at Beirut, Leba—
© non, Syria, in a letter written from
the American Mission, tells of the excel-
lent work he is continuing while study-
ing for the ministry.

He says, “In the villages the teachers
who are communicating with me are still
working in the cause of humane educa«
tion, but with diﬂiculty among the
grown-ups. The students in schools who
do not conceive the horrors of war are
interested and doing good deeds to ani—
mals in and about their homes.”

He is endeavoring also to secure the
permission of the American Mission to
help all the teachers connected with that
organization in forming Bands of Mercy
in their schools.

Since his last letter, six donkeys, two
horses and seventy dogs have been put
to sleep, the latter because of what was
supposed to be rabies. Fifteen donkeys,
six mules, four horses and four dogs
have been cared for, and lost animals
returned to their owners were: seven
cows, eight donkeys and three oxen.

This representative, Mr. N. B. Matta,
is sowing seed, and much of it, we must
believe, is falling on good ground where
a harvest is sadly needed.

A Macedonian Call

That lone and faithful worker in Hun-
gary, Mme. Camilla von Corbelar, to
whom we have been able, out of a small
special fund for that purpose, to send
some ﬁnancial help, writes in a letter
dated February, as follows:

“For God’s sake do help. I am as one
whose hands are bound. The need is ap—
palling and we cannot help, cannot even
purchase chloroform enough for the poor
victims that are hourly brought to us.”

The banks here tell us there is no
guarantee of safety in sending money
abroad except by cable. Any gifts that
anyone would like to send to Mme. von
Corbelar we shall be glad to forward
through this apparently only safe way.

Our Aid for Britain

From Sir Robert Gower comes the fol-
lowing appreciative letter:

I understand that you have been good
enough, through the Massachusetts S.
P. C. A., to send $1,000, of which $400
are for the National Canine Defence
League and $600 for the Royal S. P. C.
A. As you are aware, I have the honor
to be chairman of both Organizations
and I should like to express to you my
very grateful thanks for this splendid
assistance.

It is a great encouragement to all of
us here to know that our American
friends are in this way coming to our

Alay,1941

aid, and, whilst life is certainly some-
what diﬂicult at the present time, our
anxieties for animal welfare have been
much increased owing to the war itself,
and it is a comfort to feel that we have
both your sympathy and practical sup-
port.

With very many thanks, and kindest
regards,

Yours very sincerely,
ROBERT GOWER

The money that we were able to send
to these British Societies was made
available through a fund received especi-
ally for foreign work.

Humane Week Proclaimed

N line with the Proclamations issued

annually by Governors of Massachu-
setts during the past twenty years, Gov-
ernor Saltonstall issued the following on
April 7, last:

“Just 75 years ago the ﬁrst organized
movement in this country to prevent
cruelty to animals was started in New
York city by Henry Bergh. Two years
later came the organization of the Massa-
chusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals by George Thorndike
Angell, a name that will ever be associ-
ated with those of the great philanthro-
pists of Massachusetts. Early in his
career, he felt the necessity of enlisting
youth in his humane campaign; and so
started the American Band of Mercy, a
national movement, which has enrolled
no less than 8,000,000 members, all
pledged to kindness to animals.

“How vast has been this inﬂuence for
good on the characters of so great a mul—
titude of the children of our schools, no
man can estimate. Into the hands of our
teachers is placed a great trust which
may be safeguarded by the introduction
of the principles of humane education.

“As our Commissioner of Education
points out: ‘Any campaign in favor of
humane education is very truly a cam-
paign in favor of the defense of our
national civilization.’ Hence the value of
Humane Day in Schools, which teachers
are requested to observe in connection
with the humane anniversaries in April.

“It is also highly ﬁtting that our
people generally should pause in their
daily activities and give thought to the
claims upon them of the animal world
for proper care and protection. There—
fore, in accordance with the action of
the past 20 years, and the dates that
have been selected for its national ob-
servance, I designate Sunday, April 20,
1941, as

‘HUMANE SUNDAY’
and the week of April 21 to 26, as
‘BE KIND TO ANIMALS WEEK.’ ”

 




 

 

Aug. 191,1

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

lPEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel
JOSEPH MOONEY, Treasurer’s Assistant

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President and Ch. Fi-
nance Com., United Shoe Machinery Corporation

CHARLES E. SPENCER, JR., President, First National
Bank of Boston
Prosecuting Officers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100

L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Ofﬁcer

HARRY L. ALLEN HOWARD WILLAND
HARVEY R. FULLER J. ROBERT SMITH

County Prosecuting Officers

Middlesex and Norfolk
Eastern Essex
Western Essex
Western Essex

HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston
FRED T. VICKERS, Wenham
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen
JOSEPH E. HASWELL, Methuen
FRED F. HALL, Springﬁeld

Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
, Worcester Worcester
CHARLES E. BROWN, Attleboro, Bristol and Plymouth
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis

Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket

T. KING HASWELL, Pittsﬁeld Berkshire

 

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen
W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Other Small Animal Shelters of M. S. P. C. A.
Boston, 170-184 Longwood Avenue
Springﬁeld, 53-57 Bliss Street
Pittsﬁeld, 224 Cheshire Road
Attleboro, 3 Commonwealth Avenue
Hyannis, State Road, Rte. 28, Centerville
Wenham, Cherry Street

JUNE REPORT OF THE OFFICERS OF
THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.,
WITH HEADQUARTERS AT BOSTON,
METHUEN, SPRINGFIELD, PITTSFIELD,
ATTLEBORO, WENHAM, HYANNIS, WOR-
CESTER, FITCHBURG, NORTHAMPTON,
HAVERHILL, HOLYOKE, ATHOL, COV-
ERING THE ENTIRE STATE

Miles traveled by humane officers . . 16,663
Cases investigated ............. 354
Animals examined ............. 4,949
Animals placed in homes ........ 257
Lost animals restored to owners. . 75
Number of prosecutions ........ 1
Horses taken from work ....... 13
Horses humanely put to sleep . . . . 25
Small animals humanely put to sleep 3,075
Horse auctions attended ........ 8
Stockyards and Abattoirs
Animals inspected ............. 59,541

Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep ................ 31

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

l ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals
184 Longwood Avenue. Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

E. F. SCHROEDER, D.v.M., Chief of Staﬁc
R. H. SCHNEIDER, v.M.D., Asst. Chief
G. B. SCHNELLE, v.M.D.

T. O. MUNSON, v.M.D.
C. L. BLAKELY, v.M.D.
M. S. ARLEIN, D.V.M.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springﬁeld Branch

Telephone 4-7355
53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.

Veterinarians
A. R. EVANS, v.M.D. H. L. SMEAD, D.v.M.

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR JUNE
At 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

Cases entered in Hospital ........ 811
Cases entered in Dispensary ...... 1,833
Operations 364

At Springﬁeld Branch, 53 Bliss Street

Cases entered in Hospital ........ 163
Cases entered in Dispensary ...... 573
Operations ................... 97

At Attleboro Clinic, 3 Commonwealth Ave.
Cases entered ................... 79
Totals

Hospital cases Since opening, Mar.

1, 1915 _,.............195,642
Dispensary cases .............. 493,299
Total .............. 688,941

Hospital Work Committee

The Angell Animal Hospital of the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A. is very fortu-
nate in having the services of a volun-
teer work committee, of which Mrs.
George D. Colpas is the efficient chair-
man. During the year ending June 1
last, this committee had cut and folded
2,711 gauze packs, and 3,500 surgical
sponges, and sewed operating hoods,
tray covers, glove holders, instrument
and sterilizing squares, pillows, etc., in
considerable quantities. The Society
wishes to express its hearty apprecia-
tion of this ﬁne work which is really a
very material contribution.

Branches and Auxiliaries
MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Northampton Branch Of Mass. S. P. C. A.-—MISS
EMILY HALE, Pres.; MISS MILDRED MOULTON, Treas.

Great Barrington Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—
MRS. ROBERT MAGRUDER, Pres.; MRS. DONALD WORTH-
INGTON, Treas.

Holyoke Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—MRS. AARON
C. BAGG, Pres.; MRS. ROBERT E. NEWCOMB, Treas.

Springfield Branch Auxiliary—MRS. CARLTON H.
GARINGER, Pres.; MRS. RICHARD A. BOOTH, Treas.
Second Thursday.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary—MRS. RICHARD S.
TAYLOR, Pres.; MRS. JOHN HAMILTON CLARKE, Treas.

Boston Work Committee of Mass. S. P. C. A.—MRS.
GEORGE D. COLPAS, Chairman.

Page 151

Veterinary Column

1. Question: I have a three months
old Boston terrier puppy. I understand
the best way to prevent his catching dis—
temper is to have him inoculated or vac-
cinated. When is the best time for this
treatment?

Answer: Permanent protection against
distemper is best obtained after the dog
is four months old. Prior to this, pro—
tective injections Of anti-distemper se-
rum may be given at ten to fourteen day
intervals until the dog is four months
old.

2. Question: Is a kerosene bath a
good method of treating ﬂeas on a dog
or cat?

Answer: Kerosene should not be used
in the treatment of ﬂeas. It may cause
severe burns because of the sensitivity
of the animal’s Skin.

3. Question: Should a three months
Old puppy be bathed?

Answer: It is dangerous to bathe a
young dog. It is difficult to dry them
thoroughly and because of this the sus—
ceptibility to colds or distemper is in—
creased on bathing. If the puppy be-
comes soiled, the soiled spots may be
cleaned with a cloth, using warm water
and a mild soap. Follow this with a
thorough drying and brushing. Many
soiled muddy spots may be cleaned by
brushing alone.

4. Question: For the last three days
my kitten has refused to eat. It is six
months old and has never been sick be—
fore. Could it have been poisoned? He
has vomited several times.

Answer: It is doubtful if the cat has
been poisoned. The symptoms you de-
scribe are those of an infectious disease
of young cats which is more prevalent
in the summer months. It would be best
to consult your veterinarian who could
advise you as to treating the kitten.

5. Question: Within the last three
days a swelling has developed in the
lower inside corner of my dog’s eye. The
dog is a seven months Old male cocker
Spaniel. The swelling is bright red and
apparently is very sore. Is this a scratch
or is there something in the dog’s eye?

Answer: From your description of
the case, your dog apparently has a
tumor or cyst developing on the third
eyelid or haw. This is not uncommon in
young dogs, and is the result of the im-
proper functioning of the glands located
in this part of the eye. To correct this
trouble, surgical treatment is necessary,
and your veterinarian should be con-
sulted.

L. H. S., Veterinary Dept,
Angell Animal Hospital

Please remember. the American Hu-
mane Education Society in your will.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

Page 64

TheDeer
H. Grady Thompson, Jr.

Have ever you seen the corpse of a stag
As he lay in the deep folds of brush?
Have ever you seen the thick flow of blood

Where he fell in the cold forest hush?

Have ever you seen the cold glassy stare
That he has as he rots on the ground?

Have ever you seen the delicate hoots
As the vultures above circle round?

Have ever you seen the keen pointed ears
That have heard Nature's symphony flow?
Have ever you seen that dark outline
That is his sorrowing doe?

Have ever you seen his antlers
That have locked with his deadly toe?
Have ever you seen those keen, alert eyes
That have watched in the forests glow?

Have ever you seen his slender legs
That have run o'er the forest’s lawn?
Have ever you seen the little one—
The silent and sorrowing fawn?

So, hunter, whenever you search for game
And find only the audacious deer
Just go on your way with a handwave and
grin
And let him have nothing to fear.

The First Scientific Farmer
ETTA W. SCHLICHTER

NYONE who has ever watched a

colony of ants knows that the little
creatures often exhibit what seems to be
real intelligence.

Put out a food supply somewhere near
a nest. You will see a procession of ants
coming to it, each taking a load and re-
turning with it to the nest, while another
procession keeps coming, the comers and
goers running in parallel lines and never
colliding, an object lesson to our automo-
bile drivers. If they are not disturbed,
they will keep this up till the supply is
exhausted.

But these ants are simply going to
market. There is another ant, the atta,
or leaf-cutter, found in Central and
South America, that raises its own food,
at least the food for its young.

These attas form processions just as
our ants do, and run up a tree, cut a
tiny circular bit out of a leaf, hold it
over their heads like a little umbrella
without a handle, and carry it to the
nest. A moving picture taken by a scien—
tist showed those ants going up a tree
trunk, then coming down, each holding
its little umbrella. The processions of
those coming and going kept one to the
right, the other to the left of their lane
of travel, which was described as being
in comparison to the size of the ant,

OUR DUMB

ANIMALS

April, 1941

The Caribou Spread Southward

W. J. BANKS

 

 

CARIBOU CROSSING A LAKE IN NORTHERN QUEBEC
Note the young (without antlers) partly supported
on the flanks of cows (small antlers)

eating” lately for many Indians of

the Canadian hinterland. For the
caribou. have come back to large sections
long denuded of these great deer of the
Arctic Tundra, even to some areas south
of their former natural range. Unlike
the paleface, the Indian seldom slaugh-
ters game beyond his legitimate needs,
and conservation laws protect the cari-
bou from white man’s destructiveness.
Thus the coming of the herds nearer to
civilization need not alarm the animal
lover. Indeed the recent prevalence of
North America’s native reindeer brings
joy to the conservationists who once
feared the passing of this noble species.
Perhaps the development of settle—
ments in the Arctic coast region and the
lessening of forage there have contribu-
ted to the shifting of many barren
ground caribou as far south as the
northern extremities of Canada’s “prai-

l ll THERE have been “times of good

rie” provinces. Until a few years ago it
was impossible to get an accurate idea of
the actual range or numbers of the cari-
bou as they migrated in herds perhaps
as vast as any the world has ever seen,
and then apparently vanished overnight.
But with the increasing number of white
residents in the North West Territories
and the constant passage of airplanes
overhead, dependable estimates are now
possible. These place the number of bar—
ren ground caribou at three millions.

The woodland caribou have also in-
creased of late in some districts. This
little group swimming a northern Que-
bec lake offers an unusual close-up of
these shy animals. Unlike most deer the
female caribou carry antlers, smaller
than the males. It may be noted that a
cow leads the little party. After a com-
mon habit of grass—eating species, the
caribou often submit to feminine leader-
ship while on migration.

 

about the width of a highway.

But the attas do not carry these bits
of leaf for food. They take them to the
nest, or cave, and lay them on the
ground. There they remain until they
decay and form a humus, the organic
part of soil, and from this grow mush—
rooms so small as to be almost micro-
scopic. It is on these mushrooms that
the baby ants are fed.

In primitive times, the farmer sowed
his grain year after year until the soil
wore out and then he moved to virgin

soil. How long did it take him to ﬁnd
that science could show him ways to feed
his ground and keep it fertile?

Yet scientists tell us that these ants
have probably been making their mush-
room beds for thousands, perhaps hun-
dreds of thousands of years.

“Go to the ant, thou sluggard; con-
sider her ways and be wise,” said the
Proverbist. Yet who would ever have
thought of going to the ant for lessons
in agriculture?

 




 

April, 1941

King George’s Pigeons on
War Service
Winged Friends of Man
E . R . Y A R H A M

HEN put to the test of actual war

conditions our much-boasted twen—
tieth century means of communication
frequently prove wanting. This is why
all belligerent countries have to revert,
as the last resort, to the age-old method
(used by the Chinesethousands of years,
B. C.) of message-carrying pigeons.

Britain has three-quarters of a mil-
lion birds enrolled in the National Pi—
geon Service, and some of the ﬁnest
strains come from King George’s lofts at
Sandringham. He, his father, George V,
and King Edward VII, have maintained
a notable loft there for half a century.
Royal Air Force planes regularly carry
homing pigeons for use, if their radio
fails.

One of King George’s birds might well
have saved a pilot’s life recently when
he found himself in such a predicament,
with petrol running short. He released
a pigeon, which ﬂew to the King’s coun-
try home, Sandringham, from whence a
message was phoned to the pilot’s base,
and arrangements were made to send
aid. As it was, the pilot managed to
reach his drome. Had he been compelled
to come down in the sea the bird might
well have saved his life and the plane as
well. Every fortnight a report of the
birds’ activities is sent to King George.
During the World War of 1914-18 no
fewer than 50 of his father’s birds re-
ceived special mention in dispatches for
ﬂights on the Western Front, and one
carried 403 messages, one announcing
the fall of Messines Ridge and another
the evacuation of Lille by the Germans.

One hundred thousand pigeons saw
service in France during the four years
of the last war. When radio sets, ﬁeld
telephones, and all other methods of
conveying urgent news were shattered,
they often proved the only hope. They
ﬂew above the tragic trenches of Ypres,
the Somme, and Verdun; they winged
their way through the crash of bursting
shells and the rattle of machine guns;
many, despite fatal wounds, struggled to
their lofts with urgent messages; others
were brought down by enemy snipers——
for war knows no mercy—and others
perished miserably from poison gas.
Knowing none of the hates of war they
were faithful unto death, and saved
countless thousands of 1ives.

Fittingly, some were honored in life,
and, as soldiers, tens of thousands were
honored after death. Hungary, France
and Belgium have their pigeon memori-
als. The selﬂess courage of these birds
is recorded on the Scottish National War
Memorial, Edinburgh.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

Page 65

White and Blue Foxes of the Arctic

WILLIAM MacMILLAN

 

OWHERE in all the world are
N there to be found daintier or more

exquisitely furred animals than
the white and blue foxes making their
homes on the fringe of the Arctic. Here,
where the drifting ﬂoes grind and crunch
the winter long, they frequently round
out the cycle of their existence unseen
by any but the man in the moon.

Each as beautiful as the other in it’s
own particular way, comparisons be-
tween the two would be invidious. How-
ever, since the white fox is more or less
the senior partner in the going concern
we will discuss it ﬁrst.

To begin with, he rarely comes over
forty inches in length, has a mild, squar-
ish face and a stubby nose, is provided
with non-skid fur on the underside of
his paws, and a fur coat thick enough to
defy the coldest storm that blows.

In summer his fur thins out and turns
grayish. He isn’t particularly attractive
looking at this season. But being an in-
dustrious little fellow he combs the bogs
and the swamps for the succulent little
Arctic mice we have tagged as lem-
mings. The marshlands fairly teem
with these fat-rumped little mice. And
he either digs them out of their cozy
hiding places or pounces on them as they
scuttle along their runways.

Like the hares in the deep woods these
lemmings are the economizers of the
wilderness, providing food for all sorts
of Arctic animals from owls to foxes.

Making an excavation just below the
frost-line—which isn’t very far down in
these latitudes—the wily fox packs the
fat little bodies in with moss and leaves
against the long months of winter when
food is at a premium and starvation
stalks the drifts.

Bureau of Biological Survey

BLUE FOX, BROTHERS ISLAND, ALASKA

This careful habit of the white fox is
probably one of the reasons why he man-
ages to survive as he does. And some
idea of his industry can be gleaned from
the fact that a curious explorer once
counted the bodies of some ﬁfty lem-
mings in one of these cold storage plants.

Mouse isn’t the only item on his bill
of fare, however. And he loves to hunt
Wildfowl in the little lakes and lagoons,
to say nothing of the odd ptarmigan
along the ridges.

Another amazing feature about the
dainty little fox is his personal clean-
liness. He is as neat and tidy as they
come and exudes none of the obnoxious
odors so peculiar to most foxes.

There are times when the Arctic
seems to fairly teem with white foxes.
And other times when cold and disease
and lack of food get the best of them so
that they almost dwindle, in numbers, to
the vanishing point.

Equally beautiful and intriguing is the
blue fox. Popular theory to the con—
trary, this animal is not a white fox
turned blue, or in his summer coat, but
is actually a color phase of the white fox.

As a matter of fact, describing his fur
as being blue is stretching a point. It
really isn’t blue in the strictest sense of
the word, but is more smoky gray, or
blue gray, sprinkled, at times, with white
hairs.

That, incidently, is his winter coat. In
summer it is a most unattractive rusty
brown having absolutely no relation to
blue. But were you to see him drifting,
soft-footed, over the tawny marshes you
would certainly agree that God does
truly move in mysterious ways his won-
ders to perform.

 




 

Jan.1941

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 5

Photographs from New York State Nature Association

 

CURIOUS YOUNG WOODCHUCKS

OR the second year the New York
E State Nature Assocation, of Albany,
held a public exhibition of photo-
graphs of wild animals and birds at the
Albany Institute of History and Art.
Two hundred and forty pictures were
shown, from October 30 to November 10.
Both the subjects reproduced here are
by Mr. W. J. Schoonmaker, who is presi-

contributed these photographs in the
interest of preserving wild life.

Among the objectives of the Associa-
tion are:

'To encourage the study and apprecia-
tion of all wild life.

To protect and preserve native wild

life, not as game, but as creatures hav-

BUSHY—TAIL FINDS A CHOICE MORSEL

dent of the Nature Association, and who

ing their deﬁnite place in the scheme of
nature.

To create absolute sanctuaries by the
posting of land.

To oppose crow shoots, organized poi-
son campaigns and wholesale animal
destruction.

To promote legislation to further the
cause.

 

Wild Babes in the Woods

woods more fascinating than the

wild things born under thicket and
hedge. Weak and helpless, and quite un—
able to defend themselves, these new-
comers to this vale of tears would fall
easy prey to the predatory animals lurk-
ing in the underbrush if it wasn’t for the
curtain of protection kindly nature
throws about them when they are born.

This protection takes two separate and
distinct forms, shape and color. In those
rare instances where a forgetful Provi-
dence has forgotten to provide the new—
comers with lines and angles that ﬁt into
their surroundings and virtually render
them invisible, she endows them with
coloring of fur and feather that can’t be
distinguished from the bark and leaves
and underbrush about them.

When born, the young caribou and deer
are just about the most helpless crea-
tures imaginable; juicy morsels for the
ﬁrst ﬂesh—eater to happen along. Once
ushered into the world their mothers can
do nothing more, momentarily at any
rate, for them. Nature, therefore, ever
mindful of her children, not only har-
monizes the newcomers with their sur—
roundings so that the “eye-hunter” can’t
spot them, but removes from their tiny
bodies all traces of scent that might lure

THERE is probably nothing in all the

WILLIAM MACMILLAN

sharp-nosed wolves and lynxes to the
spot.

Few people have had the opportunity
of setting eyes on beaver kits but a few
hours old. This is just as well, perhaps,
because the youngsters lack camouﬂage
of any kind, and protection from prying
eyes is highly desirable. Born in their
bone-dry bedroom behind foot-thick
walls they are usually safe from inter-
ference. Many times the size of black
bear cubs of equal age they look exactly
what they are, pocket editions of their
masterly parents.

At birth these particular little babies
measure some twelve inches in length,
are soft gray in color, and as velvety to
the touch as moles. Their eyes are open,
and they just sleep and eat till nature
prods them into motion.

Nurtured on the richest milk in the
land they grow and grow till the mother
decides that it is time for them to
acquire some swimming and diving
tricks. Oddly enough, if forced, for one
reason or another, to evacuate the hut
they paddle helplessly about in the water
till taken in hand and whisked ashore.

Then there’s the gray rabbit, an elu-
sive little elf, if there ever was one. Less
than four inches long and covered with
soft satiny fur, “Their mouths,” declare

Stone and Cram, “are forever twitching
as if repeating some lesson they fear
they might forget.”

One might imagine that otters, no
matter how young and inexperienced
they might be, would be born with a
ﬂare for water. Strangely enough, such
is not the rule. In the days of their
infancy dry land appears to be quite good
enough for them. And they have to be
carried to the water and ducked by force.

Baby coons are usually born high up
in a tree. Blind and helpless, they cry
piteously like children and, later, turn
shoe-button eyes on a world that must
appear hostile and repelling. Comes a
fateful day, or night, rather, when the
parents decide that a visit to the mys—
terious world below might not be amiss.
Exhibiting astounding patience they
train the youngsters how to descend the
tree, not rear-end ﬁrst, but head—down,
like the true tree dwellers they are.

Some of our smallest mammals, the
harvest—mice, are suckled, some eight and
nine to a litter, only for a week. Thrust
out into the world at the end of that
time to provide room for expected addi-
tions, they have to fend for themselves
almost as soon as they are weaned, a
breath—taking adventure for such help—
less little creatures.

 




 

 

u mbAﬂ ”7762/
7? ~ &

0.1 “NOE

LL m 1868.AND FOR FORTY~ONE

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,

Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,

Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
—COWPER

GLORY 'ro
GOD,

PEACE on EARTH,

AND MERCY 'r'o
EVERY LIVING
g CREATURE.

 

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society fer the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

Entered as second-class matter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Oﬁice at Norwood, Mass., under the Act of March 3, 1879
Acceptance for mailing at spec1al rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Boston Ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

Vﬁﬂ.74

January,l94l

lQo.l

 

We Hope You Like It

E mean our magazine which, on

its seventy-fourth birthday, ap-
pears with its new cover and its new
and larger type. This oldest publica-
tion of its kind in this or any other
country still looks to the future.

It gives us four additional pages and
a more substantial cover with a color
changeable from time to time.

Yes, it costs more but the subscrip-
tion price is still the same, and it will
go, as in the past, to nearly all associ-
ated humane organizations, to many
professional men—doctors, lawyers,
clergymen—to the leading newspapers,
to libraries, to schools, orphanages and
other institutions where children are to
be found, and to all Bands of Mercy.

Into nearly every country on the face
of the globe it ﬁnds its way, carrying
its gospel of kindness, good will, and
pleading for peace instead of war, for
tolerance instead of criticism, for fair
play instead of prejudice, for love in-
stead of hate.

For thousands of its copies we re-
ceive nothing. Theyare sent out as part
of the Society’s work, to widen the king-
dom of justice, truth, mercy and good
will toward all that lives—whether
men, women or children, or the beasts
of the ﬁeld and the birds of the air.

Any friend of any of our readers may
have a free sample copy upon request.
The subscription price is one dollar a
year; in clubs of ﬁve the price is sixty
cents a year.

To give for Humane Education is to
insure a generation hating war and the
narrow nationalism from which it
springs.

Another Year

N spite of all the sorrow, pain, de-

struction, fear, hunger, death, whose
shadows will darken the New Day and
the New Year, multitudes still in this
land of ours, and even in many another
where the shadows will 'be deepest, will
greet their fellows with the time-old
words, “A Happy New Year!”

The vast majority of us here in our
own country cannot fail‘to be deeply
grateful for the blessings that are ours,
compared with those of our human fel-
lows whose days and nights are ﬁlled
with the fears born of war and want.
How can we forget them in their time
of peril?

To all who read these words we do,
with sincere regard, wish the happiest
New Year life’s circumstances make
possible.

How far from the truth was the
speaker who said recently, “Men call
national selﬁshness, patriotism”?

It was a formerOLord Chancellor of
England who said, “All great powers
must begin disarmament or starvation.”

War

The bells will peal, long-haired men
will dress in golden sacks to pray for
successful slaughter. And the old story
will begin again.

The editors of the daily press will be-
gin virulently to stir men up to hatred
and manslaughter in the name of patriot—
ism, happy in the receipt of an increased
income. Manufacturers, merchants, con—
tractors for military stores will hurry
joyously about their business, in the
hope of double receipts. LEO TOLSTOI

This Is Important

HE Massachusetts Society for the

Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
suffers from two serious misunderstand—
ings on the part of the public:

First, in its appeals for ﬁnancial help
it is repeatedly being told, “Why should
a rich Society like yours ask for any
ﬁnancial aid from residents of the city
or state?”

What are the facts? The Society does
have a generous invested fund, but from
part of that fund it can only receive the
interest and, from the rest, the interest
meets but ﬁfty per cent of the annual-
expenses of the Society. The other ﬁfty
per cent must be obtained from members
of the Society and from people interested
in animal welfare.

The Angell Memorial Animal Hospital,
an important part of the Society’s work,
having to deal with toward ﬁfty thou-
sand animals a year, involves the Society
in a deﬁcit each year of more than
$40,000. Hundreds of people cannot pay
for the treatment of their animals. Many
will not pay, some give false names or
addresses.

Without the gifts of the Society’s
friends, the Hospital could not be main—
tained and thousands of unfortunate
people, many of them unable to make any
payment for service rendered their ani-
mals, would be unable to obtain what the
Hospital is able to give them.

Receiving no money from city or state
or from the Community Fund, it is com-
pelled annually to raise half of the more
than a quarter of a million dollars a year
of the money needed for its work and the
work of the American Humane Educa-
tion Society.

Second, the Society is constantly being

 




 

 

 

Page 12

PEACE ON EARTH,

KINDNESS, JUSTICE}
AND MERCY TO

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angel]

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Incorporated 1889

Officers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY& STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice—President and Treasurer,
United Shoe Machinery Corporation
CHARLES E. SPENCER, JR., President, First National
Bank of Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

E. J. H. Escobar .................. Colombia
Luis Pareja Cornejo ............... Ecuador
Charles A. Williams ............... France
Leonard T. Hawksley .............. Italy

S. C. Batra ....................... India
Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe ........... Japan
Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ........ Madeira
Dr. A. T. Ishkanian ............... Mexico
Mrs. Alice W. Manning ........... Turkey

Humane I’ress Bureau

Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Field Workers of the Society
Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim. Slaton, Texas
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, South Carolina
Rev. R. E. Grifﬁth, De Land, Florida

Field Representative

Dr. Wm. F. H. Wentzel, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts

Ella A. Maryott

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF FIELD
WORKERS FOR NOVEMBER, 1940

Number of Bands of Mercy formed, 1,070
Number of addresses made, 303

Number of persons in audiences, 46,503

Gifts for Retired Workers

WE are receiving gifts to the Ameri-

can Humane Education Society as a
trust fund, the interest to be used for the
beneﬁt of ﬁeld missionaries and others who
have spent their lives in promoting humane
education. Already several cases have come
to our attention and are being relieved in
this way. We will welcome your contribu-
tion to this fund.

Please make checks payable to Treas-
urer, American Humane Education Society,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, and specify
that the amount contributed is for the Hu-
mane Education Trust Fund.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

J. Edgar Hoover and Humane
Education '

HE report of J. Edgar Hoover,
Chief of the Federal Bureau of In—
vestigation, on youthful crime, puts a
new and striking value upon the work of
the American Humane Education So-
ciety among the youth of this country.
When he says that from January 1,
1939, to September 30, 1939, children in
the United States under 15 years of
age were arrested for four murders, 47
assaults, 50 robberies, 163 auto thefts,
824 burglaries, and 911 larcenies, one
cannot help wondering how much greater
these ﬁgures would have been had not
the American Humane Education So-
ciety, in something over a generation,
through its workers, particularly in the
schools of this country, been able to meet
and talk to more than seven million chil-
dren, gathering them into little humane
groups known as Bands of Mercy, be-
cause the whole purpose of this humane
education work is to quicken and foster
in the heart of the child the spirit of
justice and fair play toward all life.

The great majority of these youthful
criminals are reached in the schools as
nowhere else. Multitudes of the homes
from which these children come have
given them no moral training, no respect
for law; tens of thousands of them never
see a Sunday-school, but the vast major-
ity of them can be reached in the various
public schools of the States of the Union.

Furthermore, Mr. Hoover makes what
he calls the more disheartening state-
ment that “youths less than 21 years of
age constitute 20 per cent of all persons
arrested in the United States. Almost 13
per cent of the murderers, 30 per cent of
the robbers, 47 per cent of the burglars,
34 per cent of the thieves and 53 per
cent of the auto thieves with whom the
law enforcement ofﬁcers of America must
deal are youths who have not yet reached
the voting age.”

How thoroughly right he is when he
says, “The task we face is simply a ques—
tion of education. Education in the class-
room, the churches, civil organizations,
clubs and societies.”

We quote these words from the dis-
tinguished head of the Federal Bureau of
Investigation to re—emphasize our own
plea for contributions for the work of
Humane Education as the fundamental
principle on which the American Hu-
mane Education Society was founded——
the ﬁrst of its kind in this or any other
land, and undoubtedly the greatest serm
vice to humanity ever rendered by
George Thorndike Angell, its founder.

Men still say that war always has been
and always will be. So for ages men
thought about slavery. But many thrones
are dust from which once issued the
voices that ruled the world!

J an. 1941

A Deserved Tribute

ANY of our readers have been
more or less familiar with the
work of Mrs. Nora T. Gause, secretary
of the Kokomo Humane and Audubon
Society, Kokomo, Indiana. Among the
oldest and most devoted of humane
workers throughout this broad land is
Mrs. Gause, now ninety years of age.
A friend who knows her well has paid
a beautiful tribute to her in an Indiana
paper. In this tribute it is said, “Those
of us fortunate enough to know Mrs.
Gause and come under her inﬂuence are
stronger and better because our lives
have touched hers. Our sympathies are
broader and deeper because we have
clasped hands with this remarkable gen-
tlewoman. Modern writers have almost
discontinued the use of the word “gentle-
woman.” I use it here and use it advis-
edly for I know no word that better
describes the ﬁne qualities and rare
character of Nora Gause. Her life has
been ‘pure in its purpose’ and strong in
battling for the rights of our dumb
friends, the animals and birds. With no
thought of self she has gone through
summer’s. heat and winter’s cold on mis-
sions of mercy to save some helpless
creature from suffering. A woman mod-
est, gentle, unassuming, quiet, but a
brave and courageous ﬁghter for her
ideals, ideals that every thoughtful man
and woman admires and applauds.”

Mrs. Clinton Pinckney Farrell

The recent death of Mrs. Clinton
Pinckney Farrell, president of the Vivi-
section Investigation League, New York
City, is a sad and serious loss to the
great humane cause.

Devoted as Mrs. Farrell was to the
strong organization of which she was
president, she was a woman too wise and
too broad in her thinking to antagonize
anyone who might not have been able to
go with her the whole distance in her
opposition to what she felt was cruelty.
She took into her friendship with a kind-
ly welcome anyone who was willing, in
any degree whatsoever, to co-operate
with her in the protection of that vast
and so often defenseless animal world
whose interest lay so heavily on her
heart.

Child Labor Day

For thirty-ﬁve years, the last week-end
in January has been designated as Child
Labor Day. Churches, schools, women’s
organizations and civic agencies have
taken this occasion to rally public senti-
ment against the exploitation of children.

If you wish to join in the observance
on January 25, 26 or 27, write to the
National Child Labor Committee, 419
Fourth Avenue, New York City.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 152

   

  

PEACE ON EARTH,
KINDNESS, JUSTICE
AND MERCY 'ro
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

 
   
     

Founded by Geo. T. Angell Incorporated 1889

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Officers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President and Ch. Fi-
nance Com., United Shoe Machinery Corporation

CHARLES E. SPENCER, JR., President, First National
Bank of Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

E. J. H. Escobar .............. Colombia
Luis Pareja Corneio ........ ‘. . . .Ecuador
Charles A. Williams ,,,,,,,,,,,, France
Leonard T. Hawksley ,,,,,,,,,, Italy

- C. Batra .................. India
Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe ,,,,,,,, Japan
Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ,,,,,, Madeira
Dr. A. T. Ishkanian ,,,,,,,,,,,, Mexico
Mrs. Alice W. Manning ,,,,,,,, Turkey

Humane Press Bureau
Katharine H. Piper, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston
Field W'orkers of the Society
Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Illinois
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, South Carolina
Rev. R. E. Grifﬁth, De Land, Florida

Field Representative
Dr. Wm. F. H. Wentzel, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF FIELD
WORKERS FOR JUNE, 1941

Number of Bands of Mercy formed, 41
Number of addresses made, 39
Number of persons in audiences, 5,358

Retirement Fund

E are receiving gifts to the Ameri-

can Humane Education Society as a
trust fund, the interest to be used for the
beneﬁt of ﬁeld missionaries and others who
have spent their lives in promoting humane
education. Already several cases have come
to our attention and are being relieved in
this way. We will welcome your contribu-
tion to this fund.

Please make checks payable to Albert A.
Pollard, Treasurer, American Humane Edu—
cation Society, 180 Longwood Avenue, Bos-
ton, and specify that the amount con-

tributed is for the Humane Education
Trust Fund.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Rex Brasher, Bird-Painter
Extraordinary
JAMES ALDREDGE

EX BRASHER no longer has to in-
vade swamps and thickets for a
swift ﬂash of wings. Long hours of
watching for strange and gorgeous

plumage all lie behind him. His stupen-
dous life—time ambition—that of painting
all the birds of North America—has
been fulﬁlled at last.

One of the greatest painters of all
time, Rex now ﬁnds sanctuary from
in his studio—home

life’s hurly-burly

 

REX BRASHER

overlooking Chickadee Valley. It stands
in the shadow of Rattlesnake Mountain,
just off the Kent and South Amenia
road, connecting Connecticut with New
York State.

As he looks backward over half a cen-
tury of struggle, this man should cer-
tainly feel content. Only by dint of re-
lentless perseverance against overwhelm-
ing odds did he succeed in turning the
bold dream of his boyhood into an
accomplished fact.

But others also appreciate his achieve-
ment. On a Sunday his hillside—home
has sometimes been the goal for more
nature-pilgrims than Visit a city mu-
seum. His guest book is crammed with
the signatures of distinguished visitors.
Surrounded by ﬂocks of friendly bird-
neighbors, for whom he has provided a
paradise of houses, baths and feeding
troughs, it is not surprising that Mr.
Brasher declares this is the place where
he will be perfectly content to pass the
remainder of his days.

His claim to lasting fame must rest on
his complete portrayal, in water color,
of every known species and sub—species
of North American bird, from Mexico to
Labrador. Beginning with John Bur—
roughs, a succession of eminent orni-
thologists have paid tribute to his accu-
racy.

It staggers the imagination merely to
think of what his gigantic masterpiece
entailed. He had to paint 1,200 varieties

Aug. 1941

of birds. But this undertaking, which
occupied nearly ﬁfty years of concen-
trated study, and involved many thou-
sand miles of travel to remote parts of
the continent, was only the beginning of
his task.

Rex was anxious to have his paintings
brought out in book form by the natural
four-color process. The ﬁrst publisher to
whom he proposed it, however, held up
his hands in horror. The cost, ﬁgured at
the very lowest, would come to over
$500,000!

Most men would have been stumped
then and there, but not Rex. His life
had been tempered with determination.
In a short time he had found a way of
solving the problem.

He worked with a New England en-
graver, and an extremely delicate form
of photographic reproduction was per-
fected. With this process 100 copies of
each of the 873 plates were made.

Then Mr. Brasher went to work on the
enormous job of hand—coloring these in
water colors. There were 90,000 copies
in all. By laboring night and day without
let-up, he ﬁnished the entire lot inside of
three years.

The entire collection was offered at
subscription, and sets were eagerly
snapped up by the nation’s most famous
bird—lovers, including Mr. Boeing, the
airplane manufacturer, and Mr. Kellogg
of breakfast—table fame. Colleges,
schools, museums and private collectors
bought copies. The original price of the
sets ran from $2,000 to $4,500, but the
few now remaining in Mr. Brasher’s
possession are expected to bring $10,000.

 

 

Bureau of Biological Survey

BOBOLINK

 




 

 

 

 

Page 24

Abraham Lincoln

His motives are unquestionable, and he
possesses to a remarkable degree the
characteristic, God-given trait of his
people, sound common sense.

CARL SCHURZ

“While a solitary stripe remains in our
banner, while a single star is blazoned
on its ﬁeld of blue, so long will the deeds,
the heroism and the loyalty of Abraham
Lincoln be told to generations yet un-
born.”

Abraham Lincoln changed not only
the customs, habits and opinions of the
major portion of the American people,
but the opinions and sentiments of mil-
lions of people in other parts of the
world. He was not a type. He loomed
unique and solitary, like a sphinx in the
desert of Democracy, a symbol of des-
tiny and disruption in the Ethiopian
night of modern slavery.

FRANCIS GRIERSON

Sorry for the Horses

In “Abe Lincoln’s Anecdotes and Sto-
ries,” compiled by R. D. Wordsworth, we
ﬁnd this story:

When President Lincoln heard of the
Confederate raid at Fairfax, in which a
brigadier-general and a number of horses
were captured, he gravely observed:

“Well, I am sorry for the horses.”

“Sorry for the horses, Mr. President!”
exclaimed the Secretary of War, raising
his spectacles and throwing himself back
in his chair in astonishment.

“Yes,” replied Mr. Lincoln. “I can
make a brigadier-general in ﬁve minutes,
but it is not easy to replace a hundred
and ten horses.”

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Feb. 191,1

Winter-Sleep

WILLIAM MACMILLAN

T is twenty—ﬁve, even forty, degrees,

][perhaps, below zero and a cold wind,

born somewhere near the Pole, swirls

the snow about in breath—catching eddies.
Those animals having business abroad
move swiftly and fearfully through the
barren woods. Safe and warm under the
drifts, however, curled up in holes and
dens located long before the ﬁrst snow
ﬂurries warned of colder days to come,

are dozens of fortunate animals wrapped

in the sleep of hibernation.

Hibernation is beyond all comparison
nature’s most precious gift to her chil-
dren. Without it misery and hunger
would dog their heels and bring them,
perhaps, to a frigid end.

Some animals, nevertheless, scorn the
sanctuary of hibernation. Not because
they are any smarter, or braver, than the
others, but simply because they have
been provided with particularly thick fur
coats, well protected limbs, and a more or
less dependable supply of food.

And while it is true that such vora—
cious ﬂesh-eaters as the mink, marten,
lynx and fox laugh at the cold and the
snow there must be moments in their lives
when they would give anything to be
able to crawl into a warm cozy den and
sleep through the sub-zero days.

Others, however, and it is with them
that we are most concerned at the mo-
ment, can only be sure of being around
in the spring by curling up in a hole and
sleeping through at least the worst part
of the winter.

It isn’t possible for just any animal to
take advantage of this surcease from
trouble, to curl up at a moment’s notice

 

SHEEPFOLD ——-PAINTING OF C. JAQUE

and expect to wake up, hale and hearty,
in the spring. Animals for which hiber-
nation is more or less a habit must
necessarily bear their young early in the
spring so that they will be strong enough,
and old enough, to stand the long period
of inactivity, when the only sustenance
to be had is from the fatty tissues of
their own bodies.

Hibernation can be likened to a state
of suspended animation, when even the
normal functions of the sleeper’s body
are at a standstill. Years ago the emi-
nent zoologist, Doctor Hornaday, de—
scribed the ﬁndings of another scientist
who discovered that in the case of a cer-
tain hibernating animal the action of the
heart was reduced from two hundred to
only four feeble beats a minute, and the
temperature came down from one hun-
dred and ﬁve degrees to ﬁfty-eight de-
grees, and the nerves were, to all intents
and purposes, quite insensitive.

Bears, the largest of the hibernators,
crawl into their dens in December and
promptly go to sleep, drawing on the
fatty tissues «of their bodies for their
meagre needs. During this time their
breathing is slow. And since very little
fresh air gets into the den the air is
charged with carbonic acid gas given off
by their breaths, helping to stupify them
still further. They usually sleep right
through March, emerging at that time
with their families at their heels.

Coons, on the other hand, will sleep
only through the ﬁrst, and worst, part
of the winter, never letting themselves
sleep so soundly that they won’t be awak-
ened by a spell of warm weather. They
go into retirement again after that and
conﬁne themselves to little cat-naps till
the spring sun cOaxes them afoot once
more.

Skunks hibernate much the same way
and for a similar length of time. Rarely
bothering to even change their burrows,
they will snuggle down, in families, and
sink into a sleep that may last for weeks
and even months.

Thanks to this winter-sleep many an
animal that otherwise would probably be
found only in museums is guaranteed
existence, waking, ﬁnally, to the joy of
spring, when the geese clang North and
the scent of trailing arbutus ﬁlls the air.

Endowed stalls and kennels are
needed in the Angel] Memorial Animal
Hospital. Payments of thirty-ﬁve dol-
lars for a kennel or seventy-ﬁve dollars
for a stall will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name. Terms of
permanent endowment of free stalls
and kennels will be given upon appli-
cation to the Treasurer.

 




 

 

 

Page 100

“Boy”
Elizabeth E. Barnes

A gallant knight, with plumes of white,
On gay adventures flitting,

He iousts the cat, chews up my hat,
And tangles with my knitting.

His barks defy each passer-by,
He pilfers bones expertly,

Digs gaping holes, stalks toads and moles,
And rules his realm alertly.

At night he curls beside my bed,
My faithful vassal ever,

Comrade and friend unto the end,
In bonds no time can sever.

Asking Nature

WALLACE OBAUGH

“For, eschewing books and tasks,
Nature answers all he asks.”

WHITTIER

IF you would get the most knowledge
and pleasure from your animal and
bird neighbors, go to them with speciﬁc
questions.

For example: Last winter a ﬂock of
little birds lived near my residence. By
their slate-colored backs and chests and
white underparts, and the white V
formed by their outer tail feathers when
they ﬂew, I knew them to be juncos.
Casual observation showed that they
lived on the seed of weeds sticking up
through the snow, and common sense
told me that the amount of seed de-
stroyed by the ﬂock of sixty or seventy
was enormous.

Out of curiosity, 1 determined to ﬁnd
out where they slept. The ﬁrst evening
they gave me the slip. On the second day
I saw them ﬂy, just after sundown,
toward the young pine woods between
my house and the mountain. The twi—
light of the next day found me among
the pines. The birds came in with undu-
lating ﬂight, saw me, twittered nerv-
ously, and ﬂew to another part of the
woods. It took me several days to dis-
cover that they slept by twos and threes
in separate trees, sheltered from the
weather by thick clusters of needles.
Judging from their social habits in the
daytime, this trait was surprising. I
had expected them to roost together, like
crows.

Besides the answer to my question, I
discovered new facts about their notes
and ﬂight, and was rewarded with sev-
eral unexpected glimpses of other neigh-
bors. The most exciting was a deer that

had come from the mountain to forage

on the farm. Each stepping quietly
through the young pines, we came face
to face suddenly. The surprise was mu—
tual. Added to my store of pleasant
memories was a startled doe racing

through the dusk with graceful, rhyth-
mic bounds.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

A Dog’s Prayer for His Master
WILL JUDY in The Dog World

0 Lord of humans, make my master
faithful to his fellow men as I am to him.
Grant that he may be devoted to his
friends and family as I am to him. May
he be open-faced and undeceptive as I
am; may he be true to a trust reposed in
him as I am to his.

Give him a face cheerful like unto my
wagging tail; give him a spirit of grati—
tude like unto my licking tongue. Fill
him with patience like unto mine that
awaits his footsteps uncomplainingly for
hours; ﬁll him with my watchfulness, my
courage, and my readiness to sacriﬁce
comfort or life.

Keep him always young in heart and
crowded with the spirit of play even as
I. Make him as good a man as I am a
dog. Make him worthy of me, his dog.

 

IN THE EDITOR’S LIBRARY

 

TRAINING THE DOG, Will Judy.

To the dog owner, present and prospec—
tive, the subject of training is of steadily
increasing importance. This perhaps is
best evidenced by the fact that this latest
work is published in its sixth and largest
edition. Captain Will Judy, editor of Dog
World, is recognized as one of the leading
authorities on all subjects relating to the
dog. He is also the author of many other
standard works including a “Dog Encyclo—
pedia.” His newest volume takes into con-
sideration every phase, apparently, of dog
training.

The ﬁfty-seven chapters provide the in—
formation and courses to pursue in train-
ing any breed of dog in obedience and good
manners—two great essentials.

Says the author: “A world of pleasure
and usefulness can be gotten from the
trained dog. His obedience to the spoken
word, his quick compliance, give delight
to all who behold him. His training raises
him to a higher level so that he seems not
a beast of the ﬁeld but a companion worthy
to walk by the side of man.”

The ninety odd illustrations in pen
sketches are entertaining and educational
and in themselves a very worth-while fea«
ture of the book.

l60 pp. $1.50. Judy Publishing Co.,
Chlcago, Ill.

M ay, 1941

Liberal Annuity Rates

Both of our Societies offer you semi-
annually during your lifetime a fixed income
on the sum given. Depending upon your age
at the time of the gift, the rate varies from
41/2.% to 9% per annum, beginning at age 45.

ADVANTAGES

No coupons to clip, no, papers to sign and
mail. You simply receive your checks at
stated intervals—that’s all there is to it.

Annuity agreements are frequently used to
provide for the future years of a loved one
whose present income is temporary or in-
sufficient.

It is no experiment,
There is no anxiety,
No fluctuations in rate of income,
No waste of your estate by a will
contest.

'3" * ~36 . * *

Persons of comparatively small means
may, by this arrangement, obtain a better
income for life than could be had with equal
safety by the usual methods of investment,
while avoiding the risks and waste of a will
contest and ultimate-1y promoting the cause
of unfortunate animals.

The management of our invested funds is
a guarantee of the security of these Life
Annuities.

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A., or the
American Humane Education Society, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston, will be glad to
furnish further details.

 

 

Our Dumb 'Animals

Published on the first Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 446 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Office: 180 Longwood Av—
enue. Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS

One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of

the world.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct' to the ofﬁce en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN
THE ADIERICAN HUlVIANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.
Active Life $100 00 Active Annual $10 00
Associate Life 50 00 Associate Annual 5 00
Sustaining Life 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
A. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

 

In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of
our Socxety is “The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals”; that it is the second incorporated (March, 1868)
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country, and
that it has no connection with any other similar Society.

Any . bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angell
Memorial Animal Hospital, should, nevertheless, be made to the Massa-
chusetts Socxety for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals “for the use
of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital,” as the Hospital is not incor-
porated but is the property of that Society and is conducted by it.

FORM OF BEQUEST

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
tc; Animals (or to The American Humane Education Society), the sum
0 .......... dollars, (or, if other property, describe the property).

 

 

 

m4_-*__ -Ar.‘.__. ___._ __ A w.

 




 

 

. ¥ \
\

 

 

 

 

SOLVENIZED GASOLINE IMPROVES MOTOR COMPRESSION AND SO’INCREASES MILEAGE
SOLVENOlL-- THE EXTREME PRESSURE MOTOR OIL, REDUCES FRICTION AND WEAR

 

 

 

 

 

COMPLIMENTS OF

NEW ENGLAND RENDERING CO.

BRIGHTON

 

 

 

 

 

SURGEONS AND PHYSICIANS SUPPLY CO.

Sick Room Supplies, Hospital Beds, Wheel Chairs, Sun Lamps
761 BOYLSTON STREET BOSTON
COMmonwealth 2430

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

N. E. Gas Products, Inc.
27 WEST STREET
CHARLESTOWN, MASS.

 

 

 

 

 

Brookline
E. B. DANE, President

BROOKLINE TRUST COMPANY

 

 

 

Telephone, BlGelow 0403
BURT M. RICH

Funeral Director .
26 CENTRE AVENUE NEWTON

GEORGE W. BUSH CO.

 

 

 

 

 

 

WM. M. COLLINS CO.

Plumbing and Heating

150 TYLER STREET, BOSTON
Telephone, HANcock 6270

 

 

 

Compliments of

A Friend

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

COMPLIMENTS OF

NOYES BUICK COMPANY
857 Commonwealth Ave.

Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

COMPLIMENTS OF

BECKWITH’S RIDING

APPAREL
37 ESSEX STREET, BOSTON

 

 

 

 

 

DODGE GRAIN COMPANY

Methuen, Mass,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

BUTCHER POLISH CO.
84 BROAD STREET
BOSTON

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SPARR’S DRUG STORE BAY STATE HA D
LUNCHEONETTE R WARE

Cor. Huntington Avenue and COMPANY

1395 ' .
Longwood Avenue, Boston Washmgton Street, Boston

 

 

-\

Telephone, KENmore 8460

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

E. F. Mahady Company

Hospital Surgical and Medical Supplies
Mahady Surgical Sutures - Sick Room Supplies
Radioear Hearing Aids - Corrective Corsets
Wheel-Chairs to Rent

851 BOS’LSTO‘N STREET, BOSTON, MASS.
Tel. KENmore 7100

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 156

Out of a Hidden Bough
Stanton A. Coblentz

Out of a hidden bough it sang,

With crystal bird-notes, wonder-clear,
As though some heavenly organ rang
Hosannas from some higher sphere.

Oh, not of earth that music seemed,
Those tones so pure, yet jewel-sharp,
Until I stood enthralled, and dreamed
Like one who hears a fairy harp.

And as that song rose, flight on flight,
Suddenly, strangely did I know

Of doors beyond the dark, and light
That gleams behind the sunset glow.

(Io-operating with the Wood
Duck

WILLIS MEHANNA

THE wood duck is conceded by many
to be the most beautiful of the duck
family. The male is 20 inches in length,
with green, blue and purple above with
White streaks, and red, yellow and white
below.
yellowish brown and white below. Both
have long, full crests; the bill is narrow,
higher at base than wide; the tail long
with broad, soft feathers. Its range and
breeding grounds are temperate North
America; occasionally in Mexico, Ber-
muda and Jamaica. Its nest is made in
a hollow tree high up from the ground,
near a stream or pond, and contains
from 8 to 14 creamy-white eggs. It nests
from April to June, depending on lati—
tude.

The wood duck is a woodland bird and
even in winter stays mostly within our
borders. It likes to be near ponds and
streams and to make forays into deep
woods after nuts and acorns of which it
is very fond. It will also eat insects,
snails, worms and tadpoles. The wood
duck has many enemies such as snakes,
raccoons and minks, but since these are
getting scarcer they are not a great
menace. When it nests away from the
water the parent bird removes the young
in her bill to the water as soon as
hatched and the young remain in the
water. These birds will nest near farm—
steads for they are not shy.

For a time it was feared the wood
duck might become extinct but a closed
season brought about an increase in
their numbers although they are not yet
plentiful. One cause of their scarcity
was a decrease in their nesting-places
which are hollow trees. Lacking these
they will nest in boxes if such are pro-
vided. These boxes should be made of
native lumber, fastened to a tree near
a pond or stream and up a good ways
from the ground. They are 16 inches

Females are brown above, and.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

deep, 10 inches square and have a hole
4 inches in diameter in one side for birds
to enter. The top is sloped to keep water
out of the entrance. The tree to which a
box is nailed should be far enough from
other trees so squirrels cannot jump
from them to it. Also a strip of tin
should encircle the tree about 8 feet from
the ground so bird enemies cannot climb
the tree.

A large number of these boxes were
put up near a wooded stream by a natu-
ral history club last year. More than half
of them were occupied and most of them
hatched out ducks. More will be done
this year, and this good work should be
kept up.

Enlargement of Service

THE Massachusetts Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
has just purchased a new ambulance to
be used in Attleboro, Taunton and other
nearby cities and towns. Its head-
quarters will be at the Attleboro Shel-
ter, 3 Commonwealth Avenue, Attleboro,
Massachusetts, and all calls from resi-
dents of Attleboro, either asking for in-
vestigation of reported cases of cruelty
or for the service of caring for un-
wanted stray or injured animals, should
be made by telephoning 841. Residents
of Taunton and vicinity should call En-
terprise 3055. Arrangements have been
made to have the charge reversed, so
that the person entering the complaint
or asking for service would not be
obliged to pay for the call.

The Society opened a Shelter in At-
tleboro, November 14, 1935, and then
added a Clinic in October, 1938. The
work in that section of the Common-
wealth has increased so fast that an am-
bulance has become necessary to cover
the demands for service in Attleboro,
Taunton and adjoining places. The new
service went into effect July 1st.

Aug. 1941

Bighorn Sheep Are Rare

EDITHA L. WATSON

OCKY MOUNTAIN bighorn sheep,

shy and wild, are among the most
interesting of native American animals.
They are wonderful climbers and fear-
less jumpers, sure-footed and nimble.
Their enormous horns are heavy and
strong, but the story that a sheep lands
on its horns when it jumps from a
height is untrue.

Bighorn lambs are born in the wildest
and rockiest part of the mountains, and
remain with the herd until they are
ready to live by themselves. The herd is
composed of ewes and lambs, since the
rams stay separate and apart most of
the time. The rams are powerful crea-
tures: a large one will weigh 250 pounds.

Epidemics, the nature of which wild-
life experts from ﬁve mountain states
are now studying, often reduce bighorn
herds almost to the vanishing point. In
the Pikes Peak region of Colorado only
seven bighorn sheep could be found in
1923. Due to the interest taken in these
animals by local farmers and ranchers,
who help protect them from poachers,
and to a large yearly increase, there are
nearly 400 in this herd at present. Only
one other bighorn herd in the country is
known to be increasing in numbers.

Elk and bighorn sheep apparently can
not thrive in the same region. There are
no elk in the Pike National Forest, and
this fact seems to contribute to the
healthy increase of the herd. In Rocky
Mountain National Park, on the con-
trary, where both animals are protected,
the rapidly increasing elk herds have
usurped most of the lower grazing, while
the bighorns have given ground and tak-
en to the high mountains. Early settlers
in that part of the country say that
formerly the bighorns ranged in the val-
leys and low country east of the Rockies.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Page 101;
At the Zoo

Christine Park Hankinson

At the noisy zoo there’s a captive crew
Who still hear the call of the wild.

The lions rage in their iron cage,

And will not be reconciled

To the few square feet of hard concrete
Arranged by the hands of men.

The deer still rove an imagined grove,
And live their old lives again.

The polar bear, in his heavy wear,
Growls for a polar sea;

And the wild coyote, with his prairie note,
Curses captivity.

The elephant shifts, and the tiger lifts

A snarling face to the sky;

The parrot dreams, and the eagle screams
When far-flung winds blow by.

The elk spends the strength of his antler's
length

In bending a prison bar;

And the leopard’s call is an interval

Of ancient vernacular.

The monkeys swing while chattering

In jungle delirium;

And all because inhuman laws

Undo God's laws for the dumb.

Animal Trials

ROBERT LAMSER

FROM the twelfth century until the

middle of the eighteenth, it was cus-
tomary to bring to trial in the ecclesi-
astical courts of Europe all sorts of ani-
mals against which a complaint had
been issued—dogs, cats, rats, caterpillars
and wolves. These proceedings were
justiﬁed on the ground that, inasmuch as
God cursed the serpent and the Saviour
cursed the barren ﬁg-tree, the church
had the right to punish offending ani—
mals and plants.

It was thought that since the lower
animals were created before man, and
were the ﬁrst heirs of the earth, they
were entitled to the privileges of the
Sabbath, and must be treated with all
the laws of justice.

Accordingly, when the inhabitants of
a district complained that they were
being annoyed by certain animals, the
court appointed experts to survey and
report upon the damage. An advocate
was appointed to defend the animals and
to show the reason why they should not
be summoned into court. The defendants
were then cited three times, and as they
naturally took no notice of this citation,
the court gave judgment against them
by default. The judge then issued a
monitory, warning the animals that they
must leave the district within a certain
time under penalty of extermination.

The courts did not undertake these
proceedings with any spirit of gaiety.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

June, 191;]

Nature’s Kindly Camouflage

EPSY COLLING

 

GIRAFFES AND ZEBRAS AT WATERHOLE IN KRUGER NATIONAL
PARK, AFRICA

and bronze. Brown and black twigs

show up here and there like the
black marks on the bronze and gold ani-
mals. Zebras and giraffes blend well with
their backgrounds. This is nature’s
camouﬂage.

Zebras, the frisky little wild horses of
Africa’s plains, are favorites with cam-
era fans, because they present an inter-
esting problem. One takes a picture of a
zebra, develops it, and has to hunt for
him. Protective coloration is the answer.

All types of zebras have the stripes,
but different breeds make different kinds
of noises. The common, smaller breed

THE African veldt is green and gold

 

barks like a small, excited pup. The big
zebra, known as Grevy’s, brays like a
mule—and he has big ears.

Often seen with zebra are big eigh—
teen-foot giraffes; orange-bronze in col-
or with white lines, they disappear into
the scenery in uncanny fashion. Had it
not been for nature’s camouﬂage, the
giraffe might easily have become extinct
so keen were big-game hunters to add
him to their bag.

Today, both zebra and giraffe are safe
in Africa’s many wild—life sanctuaries of
which there are two in the Belgian Con-
go, two in Kenya Colony, and ﬁve in the
Union of South Africa.

 

There were heavy fees involved, and the
trial of the grasshoppers of a district
might cost as much as that of a band
of murderers. An ofﬁcer of the court
served the summons by reading it aloud
in places frequented by the animals.

It was in a case of this sort that
Chassanee, who has been called the
“Coke of France” won his ﬁrst fame.
Chassanee had been named as advocate
for the defendants, “dirty animals in the
form of rats, of a grayish color, living
in holes.” By his legal skill he suc-
ceeded in deferring again and again the
fatal .day on which his clients must ap-
pear 1n court.

He ﬁnally made the point that a sum-
mons from the court implied full pro-
tection to the parties summoned, both
on their way to and from the court. But
hls‘clients, the rats, although most
anx1ous to appear, in obedience to the

order of the court, did not dare to leave
their holes on account of the large num-
ber of evilly disposed cats maintained by
the plaintiffs.

“Let the plaintiffs,” said Chassanee,
“enter into bonds under heavy penalties
that their cats shall not molest my
clients, and the summons will be obeyed
at once!” The plaintiffs, however, de-
clined to be bound for the good behavior
of their cats, and the case against the
rats has not yet been heard.

It was not in France alone that legal
proceedings against animals took place.
In Germany, Switzerland, Spain, and
Italy the lower animals were subject to
ecclesiastical law, and there are cases on
record in which they were tried, con-
demned, and hanged or burned at the
stake with all the solemnity that accom-
panied the judicial punishment of a hu-
man criminal.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 88

Kitty
Stephen Wright

She is a little alley cat

Without a shred of pedigree,
But she can sit upon a mat

With more than Persian dignity.

She puts strange notions in my mind—
And transmigration theories

Go flitting there until I find
Myself in tangled queries.

She might have been a Chinese sage,
Or Oriental potentate,

Perhaps a past Egyptian mage
Who could the heavens calculate.

Whatever was her wisdom's source
Must still remain a mystery,

But this is plain beyond discourse—
She has a heart of loyalty.

And when l stroke her silken fur,
She rubs her face against my hand;
She tells her love with rhythmic purr,
And every word I understand.

The Cats of Coventry
E. M. BUCHANAN

ATRIBUTE to the cats of Coventry

who are again making history. They
have proud mention in an old English
ballad, recording Lady Godiva’s famous
mercy ride, through Coventry’s deserted
streets, her only covering her golden
hair, gleaming in the moonlight. The
cats, it was said, like the humans, hid
themselves, out of respect for the Lady’s
noble deed. Now, 900 years later, on
another moonlight night, when tragedy
instead of mercy comes to Coventry’s
250,000 inhabitants, the cats again play
a brave part.

Enemy planes ravaged the whole city,
rained thousands of explosive and incen-
diary bombs, whose ﬁre turned the
moonlight red.

x’"

CHARLES HAWKES MARBLE AND HIS ST. BERNARD, “JACK”

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Dawn saw Coventry, the city of three
spires, in charred ruins.

Two of the spires which had adorned
the 14th century Tudor cathedral of St.
Michael’s and the churches of Christ,
and Holy Trinity, lay among the shat—
tered debris of these ﬁne buildings.

Gaunt skeletons of shops, offices, pub-
lic buildings, hospitals, and homes, stood
among the charred timber and piled-up
bricks.

His Majesty the King, khaki-clad,
grave of face, accompanied by Earl
Dudley, Regional Commissioner, walked
over the rubble among the smoking shell
of the town that had been Coventry,
talked to the courageous men and women
and children, who had scrawled deﬁant
messages to Hitler upon the ruins, while
the cats darted from the smoke-grimed
buildings.

Later the roads were ﬁlled with a piti-
ful procession of humanity, fearing an-
other long night of ordeal, hurrying to
get to a place of safety, before the
black-out.

Some of them carried their domestic
cats. But at nightfall there came creep-
ing back, over what had been Grey
Friars Green, along Cook and Milk
streets, the cats of Coventry. They were
returning to the homes they couldn’t
leave. And there they stayed in their
ghost town, foraging for themselves,
helped out by salvage crews, from the
mobile kitchens. The cats of Coventry
deﬁed Hitler, as bravely as their owners.

We like cats; but not all cats. We like
dogs; but not. all dogs. We like people—
but not all people. We like ﬂowers, but
not all ﬂowers. We like food, but not all
food. Cats, dogs, horses and other mat—
ters, are individuals, and why undertake
to lump them all together like Ford cars?
Nature that makes animals and people
and fruits and ﬂowers does not go in for
standardized mass production.

EDWARD E. WHITING

 

M ay, 191,1

The Gentle Bloodhound

M. G. SHELTON

F salt, man can perceive one part in

640 through his sense of taste; his
optic nerve becomes conscious of a
change of color when one part in 1,000,-
000 of methyl violet is added to colorless
water; his olfactory nerve surpasses
both his optic nerve and the nerves of
taste yet, compared to the bloodhound,
man is as incapable of ﬁnding and fol-
lowing a scent as a hippopotamus is of
doing long division.”

Thus has one authority written about
that gentlest of all gentle hounds, the
bloodhound. Yet, despite his name and
reputation, he is a gentle affectionate
creature, and the fearful baying sound
he makes on the trail does not mean he
will rend his victim when he reaches the
end of the trail.

Bloodhounds derive their name from
the fact that they were originally used
to track animals that were wounded and
bleeding. But they have long been asso-
ciated with the tracking of men, par-
ticularly criminals. They were also used
in tracking down runaway slaves during
the period of slavery, according to some
authorities.

The bloodhound’s ability to hit a trail
and keep it is one of the marvels of
nature. Hours may have passed since
the tracks were made. The way may lead
through a host of other odors—over
roads where sheep and cattle and hogs
have passed—but the bloodhound is never
confused by these. He goes on without
deviation to his quarry.

They were formerly used more exten-
sively by police departments than now.
However, they are still used to some de-
gree, both in this country and in Europe.

According to some writers, these dogs
were brought to England by William the
Conqueror; according to others, by pil—
grims from the Holy Land.

They possess the characteristics of the
hound in an extreme development; long,
low-slung ears, loose skin, long muzzle
and a most somber expression. In fact,
the skin of the head and face is so loose
and ample that it falls in deep folds or
wrinkles; the weight of the ears pull it
into furrows, and also pull the lower eye—
lids away from the eyes. The ears are
thin and ﬁne and so long that they trail
when the nose is down.

The bloodhound usually weighs around
100 pounds and is about 25 inches tall.
He should be black and tan, or all tan
of a deep shade. Any appreciable amount
of white is an indication of impurity of
strain, and lessens his value as a trailer.

In disposition this gentle creature is
unexcelled, and it is too bad that his
fearsome name has earned him an unjust
notoriety with those who know little
about dogs.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 286

@112 Emil nf ﬂirrry nr

.ﬂuninr ﬁumanr imam
DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary
PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living crea-
tures and try to protect them from
cruel usage.

The American Humane Education So-
ciety will send to every person who forms
a Band of Mercy of thirty members, and
sends the name chosen for the Band and the
name and post—office address of the presi-
dent who has been duly elected, special
Band of Mercy literature and a gilt badge
for the president. Write to 180 Longwood
Avenue, Boston, for prices of literature
and Band of Mercy supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Four hundred and twelve new Bands
‘ of Mercy were reported during October.
These were distributed as follows:—

Georgia ........................ 187
Maine ......................... 69
South Carolina ................ 67
Florida ........................ 48
Pennsylvania .................. 27
Texas .......................... 7
Massachusetts .................. 3
Michigan ...................... 1
Minnesota ...................... 1
Vermont ....................... 1
Philippine Islands .............. 1

Total number Bands of Mercy organ~
ized by Parent
260,037.

American Society,

  

 

AN ATTRACTIVE BIRDBATH WILL
BRING BIRDS TO YOUR GARDEN

  

OUR DUMB ANIMALS Dec.19[,1

Miss Maryott Retires Autumn

McLeod Orford

The woods are garbed in golden hues,
The meadows now are brown;

From early morn the birds cry out:
”The north wind's coming down!"

E regret to announce the volun-

tary retirement of our humane
education worker in Massachusetts, Miss
Ella A. Maryott, who, for nearly a gen—
eration, has been a familiar ﬁgure in the
public schools throughout the state, as
she went about interviewing teachers
and giving illustrated talks on kindness
to animals. Thousands of boys and girls,
many of them now of adult age, remem-
ber her pleasantly and her effective
stories about the proper care of their
pets. Many letters of commendation,
some from high educational officials,
have been received, telling of her good
work and expressing regret that she
feels it no longer advisable to continue it.

While the value of such service cannot
be estimated by mere statistics, we can—
not refrain from presenting this sum-
mary of Miss Maryott’s work in Massa-
chusetts schools, which shows that talks
were given to an aggregate of 1,085,354
children and 28,521 teachers, besides
other adults. An average of more than
1,000 Bands of Mercy a year were re-
ported as a result of these Visits. Who
can estimate the spiritual value of this
work upon such a multitude of impres-
sionable minds? Certainly Miss Maryott
can carry into her retirement the feeling
that she has made a great contribution
to character building in the generation
of her day. We are certain that she has
not only the congratulations but the best
wishes of a host of friends, including

her colleagues in the organization which
she served.

The wild geese form a silver V,
A leaf returns to earth;

Each in its way but demonstrates
The mystery of birth.

The sun glides through an azure sky,
A heritage of June,

And in among the goldenrocl

The hoppers play a tune.

Has summer changed her furtive mind?
Has she come back to stay?

Ah, no, there is the iunco's call—

The snow's not far away.

Humane Clubs in Detroit

ROM Lucile V. Pullman, teacher in
the Chandler School, Detroit, Michi-
gan, comes this interesting report:

We have just organized two new Hu-
mane Clubs at Chandler School. There
are 40 members in one, and 45 in the
other. We are enclosing the list of ofﬁ-
cers and program chairmen. We will
mail you a program very soon.

We use Our Dumb Animals in plan-
ning our programs. Because your maga-
zine has such a variety of articles it
makes our programs very interesting
and educational.

Today, a little kitten, whose coat of
fur had been badly torn, was brought in
by a pupil and the boys and girls ﬁxed
a box for it. We treated it, and allowed
it to remain in a box in the sun. It
slept and seemed much more lively at
noon when one of the pupils volunteered
to take it to the owner. The pupils were
anxious to have us keep it as a mascot.
There were sympathetic offers of money
to feed "it, and care for it, if we could
only keep it at school.

Thank you for your splendid co-opera-
tion in the past and for so generously
contributing the two copies of Our Dumb
Animals for our work. We appreciate it

The beech is one of the best food trees.
If there could be plenty of beechnuts
every year, little other food for many
kinds of wild life would be needed. Quail
have been observed scratching in the
snow for beechnuts. Grouse like the fruit
and buds. Pheasants, p‘artridges, deer,
raccoons, squirrels, rabbits, and opos-
sums use the food. In addition, the tree
makes one of the, best dens.

Adequate protection should be given
bees during the winter months. Losses
can usually be ascribed to starvation,
disease, poor queens, insufficient young so much and the children look forward
and poor or inadequate stores. Starva- to its coming With eagerness.
tion may be due to improper protection ° ' '
because of unnecessary use of energy Monarch butterﬂies migrate very
and stores. Bees seldom smother or much as some birds do. They start mi-
freeze to death. grating in swarms from Canada in Au-
gust; through September and October
their numbers are added to by thousands
of others along the route southward, and
ﬁnally they reach winter quarters by
November 1. En route they spend their
nights on trees. In the spring they mi-
grate northward but unlike the birds
they do not live season after season. The
individuals of one fall migration do not
live until the next.

After the First Snow
John Ritchey

On the first morning after snow we went

And found the small tracks of the furry ones

And said, “We hope you find the winter kind

And safety from the hunters’ dogs and
guns."

 

 

  




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SURGICAL SUPPLY COMPANY

RAILROAD STREET

Holyoke, Mass.

 

. Hf
FRANK E. CARLSON
& CO.

Plumbing and Heating

1179 TREMONT STREET
ROXBURY

 

Telephone, HlGhlonds 5072

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

HUB CHE VROLET COMPANY, INC.

277 Massachusetts Avenue

Cambridge, Mass.

Telephone, TROwbridge 6400

 

 

 

Telephone SOMerset 7647
HIGHLAND PAIN TERS

AND DECORATOR S

INTERIOR oncl EXTERIOR
PAINTING

315-A HIGHLAND AVENUE
SOMERVILLE

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE BROOKLIN E
SAVINGS BANK

Deposits draw interest from the
10th day of each month

160 Washington Street
(Village Square)

BRANCH

275 Harvard Street
(Coolidge Corner)

Brookline, Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I

COMPLIMENTS OF

BALBONI’S
NORWOOD and BOSTON
AUTO EXPRESS

N orwood, Mass.

Telephone, NORwood OI 16

j

House of Individual Service

Standard Coat, Apron

and Linen Service. Inc.

Suppliers of

COATS, APRONS, TOWELS
LADIES’ APRON S

to Restaurants, Stores and Beauty
Parlors

80 LANGDON ST., ROXBURY
Telephone, HIGhIands 8651

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

LONDON HARNESS COMPANY
Leather Goods

English Riding Goods and Stable Supplies — Dog Furnishings

60 FRANKLIN STREET

of Quality

BOSTON

 

 

 

 

 

F. X. ROBICHAUD

Hardware

LAWRENCE, MASS.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TROwbridge 0347

Estimates Given

Established 1922

JOHN T. POINGDESTER

Painter and Paper Hanger

563 FRANKLIN STREET

CAMBRIDGE, MASS.

 

 

 

 

 

T. NOONAN & SONS CO.
Barber Supplies
38 Portland St. Boston, Mass.
Telephone CAPitol I385

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GLENDALE COAL COMPANY

47 Medford Street
Charlestown Mass.
Telephone, CHArlestown 0800

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

COMPLIMENTS OF
Card’s Riding Academy

WESTON ROAD
WELLESLEY, MASS.
Telephone WELIesley 3414

 

 

 

D. W. DUNN CO.

MOVERS

3275 Washington Street
Boston Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

 

ﬁ-

 

ﬁ-

 

 

 

 




 

April, 1941

Prizes for Photographs

ASH prizes amounting tO $65, and

10 annual subscriptions to Our Dumb
Animals, are offered for the best pictures
Of domestic animals or domestic birds.
The contest is open to everybody, every-
where. Only the photographs must be
original and unpublished.

Twenty—three prizes in all are offered:
First, $25, cash; second, $15, cash; third,
$5, cash; fourth tO thirteenth, $2, cash,
each; fourteenth tO twenty-third, one
year’s subscription to Our Dumb Am-
mals (value, $1, each.)

The contest will close June 30, 1941.
NO entries will be received after that
date. Send no photographs till you have
written for full particulars to Contest
Editor, Our Dumb Animals, 180 Long-
wood Ave., Boston.

Humane Exercises for 1941

Teachers everywhere are reminded
that the Massachusetts S. P. C. A. has
just published a new edition Of the Hu-
mane Exercises for the use Of teachers
in elementary grades in connection with
Be Kind to Animals Week (April 21-26).
A copy of this 8-page pamphlet of poems
for recitation, short prose selections,
suggestive subjects for compositions,
references to humane classics, etc., will
be sent free to any teacher requesting it.
In quantities the price is $1.50 per 100
copies, postpaid.

Before the greatest art, which is also
the simplest, silence is the only expres—
sion of delight. ANDRE MAUROIS

The failure in love is man’s supreme
failure; it is his sin.

GEORGE A. GORDON

 

- 15b.

GRAZING IN PEACE, UNCONSCIOUS OF WAR DANGERS

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page ’73

England’s Animal Evacuees
E. M. BUCHANAN

AR has not made English people
Wlose their love for animals.

Everything has been done tO
protect our dumb friends.

The Royal Society for Prevention of
Cruelty tO Animals has united with the
Government for their welfare, and wher-
ever possible animals have been evacu—
ated to the comparative safety of the
country.

If horses remain in towns, it is com-
pulsory that a rope be attached to
bridles to tether them during air-raids.
It prevents the poor beasts running
panic stricken around the streets, doing
themselves and others injury, getting hit
by falling debris, pieces Of shrapnel from
anti—aircraft guns, even if the bombs
themselves missed the animals. Gas
masks were made for animals as well as
humans, although the horses, donkeys,
cows, cats and dogs, failed tO appreciate
them. Birds and rodents, such as pet
mice, rabbits, jerboas, dO not seem to
mind the gas-proof covers over their
cages.

If the owner can pay, a small sum,
equivalent to a dime, is charged for the
animal masks, but animal hospitals sup-
ply them free to the poor. Havoc from
bombing is so swift and uncertain that
humane owners thought it wiser to
painlessly destroy their pets rather than
subject them to such peril, but a way
was found tO save them. The R.S.P.C.A.,
with the help of animal lovers the world
over, secured places that could be turned
into animal farms in safe areas through-
out England. Here any pet could be
taken care Of and evacuated from the
danger zones.

These animal sanctuaries have been
great blessings. It has helped so much,
when the people were losing everything,
to know that their pets were safe. The
London ZOO was a problem, for it was
soon realized that London was no place
for a valuable collection Of animals. SO
the poisonous reptiles and insects were
painlessly destroyed, because Of the dan-
ger Of these creatures getting free.

Whipsnade is a model zoo, in a park so
large and well arranged that the animals
live as in their own natural haunts.
Best Of all, it is situated in a practically
safe area.

Whipsnade therefore opened its gates
to London ZOO evacuees, and gladly wel-
comed their fellow animals to share their
safe shelter. Smaller zoos all over the
country followed suit, until all the ani-
mals were distributed from the zoo in
London.

“Children’s Corner” in the London
ZOO no longer exists, but “Baby Panda,”
who was the chief attraction, still sports
its naive and fearless way in safer
quarters. “Baby” the great London
elephant, has migrated with its keeper
to a zoo in the north of England, where
though it has a little less room and a
lot more cold weather to face, it has a
heap more safety.

The London monkey house is deserted,
but the occupants are performing all
their tricks tO the delight Of country
folk. They chatter and hunt each other’s
skin, jump and leap, in safe new quar-
ters. They delight a new audience by
eating a meal at table, pushing a baby
monkey in a pram, ride a dog-cart and
a bicycle, dress up, walk around holding
their keeper’s hand, and dO many other
diverting little tricks in which they seem
to take great pride. Birds have been
kept together as much as possible. The
parrots and parakeets that greeted visi—
tors as they entered the Regent Park
gates, are now installed in warm suit-
able quarters far from the bombs Of
London. Here birds Of all kinds are
taken care Of, private pets and injured
wild ones. Lovely bird specimens are
seen in this charitable collection.

Farmers, too, accept evacuee animals.
Sheep were removed to Sussex from
bombed areas Of Kent, and other cattle
have found new homes in new counties.
It is wonderful how they seem to under-
stand and just settle down in the most
natural fashion.

War is an ugly business at best, but
it brings out great qualities, and the
need of animals, in this war, their pa-
tience and bravery, has been a great
lesson to humans. As a result, many un-
thinking people have turned tO an active
championship Of our dumb friends.

 




 

June, 1 91,1

derson, in South Caro-
lina; Charlotte and
Greensboro in North

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 107

Why Not Make it a Year-Round Campaign

From Christian Science Monitor, Boston .

 

Carolina; and Savannah
and Augusta in Georgia.
In the schools plays on
kindness were presented,
accompanied by the sing-
ing of appropriate songs.

news

IT€m~

OI o o \\
7HI‘5 I6 89 kma’ 7'0 Aﬂ/Md/S Week
PLEHSE OBSERVE IT HLL THROUGH THE YEQR—
pUT LI’OUI? 5ELF I“ THE inmHL’S PLQ‘CE‘QHD
TREHT HIm FICCOQDIHGLH’.

 

At Allen University the

 

students joined in singing
and listened to an address
by Rev. Henry B. Butler,
dean of the School of
Religious Education. At
Harbison Junior College
there was singing of hu-
mane songs, followed by
an address on kindness to
animals by the dean of
women at the college.
Quantities of humane lit—
erature were distributed .
to teachers, librarians,
and ministers throughout
the state. Mr. Carroll sent
out press releases to 150
newspapers, resulting in
an unusual amount of
publicity for what is re-
garded as the most suc-

L6 55 Lr’OU

Don'T HHvE VOUR DOG PLUCKED un—

HUITIQI’IE' ~PLUCI<|n6 Can BE CRUEL

/ F“ ’1
/ 6Q??? WWW”

HOLU LUOULD L.IOLJ LII<E TO HAVE VOUQ HAIR
PULLED OUT BV THE ROOTS ?

FIRE SURE THE méTHODS F496

 

   
   

\V/Ag'm .i ,4,
I . ////6
{If
")\i
I 21);)
(Au

nEVER LEHVE VOUQ DOE SHUT In H
CLOSED (HR In HOT IIIEHTHER ~
THE CHR LUILL BE HOT EnOUEH EVETI

       

TRV IT In THE sun H’OURSELF FOR H FELU mII’IUTE9

 

NOW LIE DOWN
AND BE QUIET-

I WON'T BE
GONE LONG

 

 

 

cessful celebration of Be
Kind to Animals Week
yet held in the South.

Unusual Publicity
in Georgia

THE HOT

Probably in no state of
the Union was so much
publicity given to Be
Kind to Animals Week as
in Georgia, where prac-
tically every newspaper
gave generous space for
advance notices of the
event. In Atlanta both the
Constitution an d the
Journal published illus—
trated f e a t u r e articles.
Mrs. Weathersbee, repre—
sentative of the Ameri—
can Humane Education
Society, reported that the

 

Don'T DRHE VOUIZ DOG mom on
FRESH DRInRInE LUHTER COHSTQIITW

How WOULD L.Iou LII<€ TO BE LUITHOUT LUHTER
uIHen VOLI’RE THIIZSTH’ ?

PavemenTs -— GIVE HIm

COME‘ALONG NOW
AND STOP
THIS NONSENSE.

 

 

 

WE WISH YOU!) THINK OF EVERY WEEK
,, A5 A ..
35 /(//v0 75 A/Y/MAA 5 MES/é.

RTE

 
      
 
 
 
    

4%
W;

l '1 '
, .
/ l I,” t 9““)
, l .. I
7 I 7: 'l .7 / £0?
’ ' / . // I .
, 751% ./.',

a;

   
 
 

 

 

1941 celebration was far ahead of any
similar event in previous years. In At-
lanta, Macon, Waycross and Savannah
there were extensive radio programs.
Many ministers called attention to Hu-
mane Sunday or preached entire sermons
on humane themes. Pet shows, the pres-
entation of plays and special talks by
teachers or others marked the humane
programs put on in many of the schools.
In Atlanta the trafﬁc car, as it cruised
about the city, carried an announcement
of Be Kind to Animals Week. Many shops
displayed the national poster in their
windows. Moving picture houses either
showed a Be Kind to Animals picture or
carried trailers announcing the Week.

Live Pets in Tennessee Schools
Mrs. James D. Burton, representing

the American Humane Education So-
ciety in Tennessee, secured the hearty
co—operation of the Tennessee Congress
of Parents and Teachers in sponsoring
Be Kind to Animals Week in the schools.
To meet state requirements each grade
school must have a live pet, so the
teachers were urged to present programs
on kindness to animals with special em-
phasis on children’s pets and their care.
The response was very satisfactory.
Prizes were given for the best posters
on humane subjects.

Proclamation by Florida Mayor

Mayor Arthur C. Hatch of De Land,
Florida, issued a proclamation, urging
the observance of Be Kind to Animals
Week, in which he said that “kindness

to animals beneﬁts not only the animals,
but those who practise kindness.”

School Exercises in Texas

From our colored representative in
Texas, Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, we learn
of ﬁne programs having been presented
at several of the schools in Fort Worth
and elsewhere. Mr. Barnwell was a guest
at the Twelfth Street Elementary and
Junior High school, in Fort Worth,
where the exercises consisted of singing,
recitations, and readings, and the entire
assembly stood to repeat the humane
pledge. At the I. M. Terrell High school
the biology department put on an elabo—
rate pageant, “From Sea to Sea,” with a
cast of more than 50 characters. A hu—
mane play was staged in connection with

(Continued on page 112)

 




Oct. 1941

The Hummer’s Flight
McLeod Orford

.I saw a feathered jewel today

.Pass swiftly on his southern way;

His heart seemed light, his courage high,
Though there are dangers in the sky.

He seemed to feel that somehow he
‘O’er countless miles of land and sea
Would always find the beacon light
That guides the hosts in migrant flight.

Though stormy clouds may fill the sky
‘We know he still will onward fly

And when at last his journey’s done
He’ll bask beneath the southern sun.

I wonder when I make my flight
Into the mysteries of the night
If I shall find a friendly star

To guide me to some home afar.

Night Visitor
LUTHER CLARK

E had intended to set breakfast for

the birds, the children and I. With
much care, we had spread nuts and seeds
upon the back doorsteps, intent upon
studying nature at close range when
morning came. But now, although the
night was inky dark, and the birds were
certainly not feeding, we heard the tinkle
of our tin of water as it tumbled off the
top step.

I said, “Tobe’s horning in.” It would
have been like him, for he was a toy
bulldog who felt compelled to investigate
everything. I went for my ﬂashlight,
stepped out on the porch, and lighted
up the intended breakfasting place.

The ray of light shone into a pair of
the softest, most lustrous eyes I had
ever beheld. They were set in a tiny
head, attached to a furry, brown body.
For moments, the little newcomer gazed
wide-eyed into the light; then it spread
its “wings” and scurried away. The visi-
tor was a ﬂying squirrel.

There is no forest dweller more gentle
or unobtrusive; it is a miniature pack-
age of beauty. Strictly nocturnal, it
sleeps the greater part of the day, and
as a consequence, it is rarely seen dur-
ing an ordinary stroll through the woods.

Its “wings” are really a web of skin,
attached to the ankles and forefeet.
When extended, the web allows the ani-
mal to glide from tree to tree, a practice
which seems to afford it much enjoy-
ment. As it sails about, it resembles a
toy monoplane.

Unless a thickly-wooded area is near-
by, one stands little, or no chance of
being visited at home by a ﬂying squir-
rel. The little glider does not venture
far from its natural surroundings. But,
from this experience, I can vouch for the
joy of being host to such a guest.

OUR DUMB

ANIMALS

Page 197

Bob-Whites at Play

ALVIN M. PETERSON

Photograph by the Author

 

ANIMALS love to play. True, the in-
stinct to play varies considerably
with the species, some playing almost
continually, others being much more
staid and playing far less often. Child-
hood and youth are the periods when
play ﬁgures most largely in the daily
routine.

Man is a highly playful animal, especi-
ally in his youth, hence we have baseball,
football, basketball and hundreds of
other games and pastimes. Horses and
cattle are far less playful, though both
calves and colts caper, kick up their heels
and prance. Cats and dogs, on the other
hand, are among the most playful of all
animals. Who hasn’t watched and been
delighted by the many antics of kittens
and puppies? Because kittens and pup—
pies are inveterate players they make
the best of pets for children.

Birds also play, at least some of them,
though the instinct varies a good deal
with the species. Naturally, it is the
young one most often ﬁnds playing.
Chickens love to pick at bright things
and to carry them around. They also
ﬂap their wings, run rapidly for a short
distance, stop abruptly, have mock ﬁghts,
and do other amusing things.

The young of the ruffed grouse throw
their heads back on their shoulders, stick
out their chests, spread their tails, drag
their wings, and strut and display. True,
these are phenomena connected with
courting and mating, but they also must
be ways of playing, otherwise why are
such antics indulged in by the young in

BOB-WHITE AND ENGLISH SPARROW

late summer and early autumn?

Like the ruffed grouse, bob-white also
likes to play. We have long had bob-
whites for near neighbors but it was not
until recently that I discovered that they
like to play. I was standing at the win-
dow one autumn day when about twenty
of these birds came out from beneath a
red cedar and grape trellis and began to
play. First, one flapped his wings, ran
rapidly a short distance, turned abruptly
and rejoined his comrades. Soon another
did the same, another and still another
until a half-dozen of them were in mo-
tion at once. No sooner were they
through than others took a turn, the
birds getting livelier and livelier the
longer I watched them. How vigorously
they ﬂapped their wings and ran, going
faster and faster as the game progressed.
By and by some of them began to ﬂy to
the lower branches of the cedar, the
wires of the fence, or a near-by fence
post. Three or four ran to a box-elder
that stood ten or twelve feet away, ﬂew
upward, alighted on its branches, sat
there a few moments, then dropped back
to the ground.

It was not a rough and tumble game
like those engaged in by kittens and pup-
pies, nor did it last long, though the
birds seemed to enjoy it thoroughly.
These birds, I am sure, would play more
did they not need to be continually on
their guard against enemies and dangers.

Please remember the American Hu-
mane Education Society in your will.

 




,Kvnr/J4

l
l
j
l

   
 

 

   
 

 

11 “1101411

1.1405” m 1868. AND FOR FORW‘ONEVEARS

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,

Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,

Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
——COWPER

 

mun Maacv To
EVERY , LIVING
CREATURE.

 

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

Entered as second-class matter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass" under the Act of March 3,1879
Acceptance for mailing at special ”rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3,1917, authorized, July 13,1919

Boston Office, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

Vol. 74

August, 1941

No. 8

 

Areyou sometimes looked upon as a
triﬂe weak-minded because you are an
outstanding lover of animals—champion
of their rights against man’s cruelties?
If so you are in excellent company—of
kindred spirit with men like Carlyle,
Jowett, Mill, Tennyson, Manning, Mar—
tineau, Browning, Alfred Russell Wal-
lace, Victor Hugo, Henry Irving, John
Ruskin, Dickens, Galsworthy, Henry
Bergh, George T. Angel], Phillips Brooks.

In the interesting Annual Report of
the Ottawa Humane Society, recently
received, we ﬁnd the following among
the things the Society does not do:

“We do not allow our inspectors to
climb trees or telegraph poles, or other—
wise needlessly endanger their lives or
limbs” to rescue animals.

Cats left alone will always come down
when nature calls loudly enough. We
know of one cat that waited four days—-
ﬁnally left her perch on a dangerous out-
branching limb and came to earth appar-
ently none the worse for her experience.

Word comes from England that the
National Canine Defence League of Lon—
don is urging dog—owners to preserve the
combings from almost every kind of
long-haired dog, and to send them to the
League’s headquarters Th \se combings,
it is said, are dispatched to the Highland
crofters who are skilled in converting
this material into excellent knitting yarn
on their ancient and picturesque spin-
ning wheels. The products from the
spinning of these combings, such as
stockings, mittens, etc., are passed on
for distribution to seamen, soldiers and
airmen.

Please remember the Massachusetts
S. P. C. A., when making your will.

Horses and Mules in United
States Cavalry

N FORMATION from headquarters

tells us that before the war there
were only about 25,000 horses and mules
in the Cavalry of the United States. At
present the ﬁgures have risen to about
50,000, and by the end of 1941, as the
result of additional purchases, there
should be 77,295 horses and mules in the
army, with probably about one-quarter
of them mules. There are now, we are
told, some 600 horses at Fort Devens
(Massachusetts) alone.

In an interesting editorial in the
Christian Science Monitor, criticism is
made of the Congressional Committee on
Appropriations for recently refusing to
honor the request of the Chief of Cavalry
of the United States army for funds to
buy gas-masks for horses. The editorial
says, “It is no more just to send a
drafted horse into battle without pro-
tection than it is to treat thus a drafted
man. There should be a ﬁne sensibility
in mankind that would acknowledge a
special duty toward creatures having no
freedom of their own but completely
subject to human decisions.”

“When a horse is down, what becomes
of the cavalryman? He is as ineffective
as an armored car without gasoline or
a plane without oil. And at every point
in the army where horses are used they
are of sufficient importance to deserve
all possible protection.”

In San Francisco recently a man was
sentenced to thirty days in jail for kill-
ing a dog belonging to two young chil-
dren and failing to stop to see what he
had done. The sentence, however, was
suspended upon the condition that he
purchase another dog for the children.

The Royal Society’s Loss

PERSONAL letter from one of the
leading members of the official.
Board of the Royal S. P. C. A., London,
England, brings the news of the death of
Captain Fergus MacCunn, chief secre-
tary of that celebrated organization——
the ﬁrst of its kind in the world.
Captain MacCunn was known to all
the humane lovers throughout Great
Britain and through correspondence
with many of the humane organizations
of this country. “His life was a ﬁne
career,” the letter says, “of unceasing
work for the cause.” The letter con-
tinues with the words that “the cause
he served was really never out of his
thoughts, and it will be a long while be—
fore we can ﬁnd a suitable successor to
him.” Captain MacCunn’s death was
preceded by a year of serious illness.

The Dachshund

During the years of the great war,
bitterness against the Germans rose to
a point that led no small number of
people to refuse to listen even to the
music of German origin. Today we are
hearing that there are those who are
looking with more or less of contempt
upon the attractive little dachshund be-
cause of its German name and heritage.

Centuries ago in far-off Palestine a
question was asked, “Can any good come
out of Nazareth?” Must not truth,
beauty, goodness be recognized and ap-
preciated no matter whence it comes?
Hostile as may be our attitude toward
what we think of as the Germany of
today, we must not forget what humani-
ty has owed in the past to the thinkers,
the scholars, the poets, the great souls
of that nation now so at war with the
rest of the world.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

  
 

Use Nema Capsules to remove
large roundworms and hook-
worms. Effective—Dependable.
Send for free Nema booklet No. 652
Wnte to Animal Industry Dept , Desk N58E

PARKE, DAVIS & 00.. DETROIT, MICH.
Drug Stores Sell Parke-Davrs Products

* Free Booklet

 

 

 

Compliments of .
GALLUP and HADLEY
Attorneys and Counsellors-at-Law

DANA T. GALLUP 6 BEACON s'r..
EDWIN W. HADLEY BOSTON, MASS.

 

 

 

 

 

NEW ENGLAND ANTI-GAMBLING
ASSOCIATION. INc.
6 BEACON 51“.. BOSTON, MAss.

“We compliment the M. S. P. C. A. on its
noble work to prevent cruelty to racing
animals.”

EDWIN W. HADLEY, President

 

 

 

 

 

    
  

 

BLACKHEADS
exterleEisfaused PIMPLES

RELIEVED BY MILDLY MEDICATED

tuTItun 3.23m:

  
   

 
     

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

 

Humane Films
For Rent or Sale
THE BELL OF ATRI

illustrating Longfellow’s poem,
and
IN BEHALF OF ANIMALS

showing the practical work of the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A. and the
Angel] Animal Hospital.

Address
Secretary, 180 Longwood Ave.
Boston

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1832

.I. s. WATERMAN & SONS, Inc.
thrriakrra

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE

City and out—of—town service

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Humane literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For sale by the American Humane Education Society and the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.,

180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass, at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold-face type, are of books or booklets

Our Dumb Animals, 1940, bound volume $1.00
Our Dumb Animals, 1936, 1937; and 1939

bound volume, each .................. .75
Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, attrac-

tive pictures and verses, six in set .. 1.00
Colored Posters, 17 x 22 inches, eight in

the set ................ 5 cts. each; eight for 35 cts.

Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 6% x 3% $0.50 per 100

About the Horse

Black Beeluty (English), cloth ........... 5‘0 cts.
The Horse—Treatment of Sores, etc.. .. .$0.60 per 100
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 5 ........ .50 “ “
The Horse’s Prayer .................... .30 “ “
How to Treat a Horse .................. .50 “ "
The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow .. .50 “ “

About the Dog

Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 ........ small, 50 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, postcard—$1.00 per 100
The Dog—Its Care in Health and Disease .60 “ “

Suggestions for Feeding Dogs .......... 2.00 “ “
Important Advice on Feeding the Dog

and the Cat — A Supplement by Dr.

Rudolph H. Schneider ................ 1.00 ” "
Humane Education Leaflets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ “
What the Chained Dog Says ............ .50 " "
The Story of Barry ..................... .30 “ "
“Don" and His Boy Scout Friends, J. P.

Lyons ................................. .50 “ “
Road Accidents to Dogs, 4 pp. ......... Free
Boots Day, play, for two boys and three

girls ..................... 3 cts. each, five for 10 cts.

About the Bird

The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus. ........ cloth, $0.45
Trial of the Birds, play, 3 cts. ea.; 1'2 for

25 cts. ................................ $2.00 per 100
Humane Education Leaflets, Nos. 1 and 2 .50 “ “
How the Birds Help the Farmer ........ .50 “ “
The Air-Gun and the Birds ............. .50 “ “
The Care Of Caged Canaries ........... 30 “ "

About the Cat

The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease.$0.60 per 100

The Cat in Literature ................. .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ...... .50 “ "
Mollie Whitefoot’s Vacation ............ .50 " “

"The Beggar Oat,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. .50 “ "

About Other Animals

The Strike at Shane’s cloth, 30 cts .. paper,7cts.
For l’ity’s Sake ....................... paper, 5 cts.
The Great Cruelty Again, Dr. Rowley.... Free
First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp.$1.00 per 100
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. .50 ” “

How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. 1.00 “
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 6, Animals .50

Ways of Kindness ...................... .50 “ "
Humane Education Leaflet, NO. 7, Farm

Animals ............................... .50 “ "
A Wise Fish ............................ .50 “ "
Care of Rabbits ........... . ............. .30 “ “
Hints on the Care of Cows ............ .50 “ ”
Directions for the Care of Swine ...... 1.00 “ “
Professor Frog’s Lecture, 8 pp. ........ .75 " ”
Why the Toad is so Useful ............ .30 “ "
Jewish and Gentile Methods of Slaugh-

tering, illus. .................. each, 15 cts.
Vivisection—The Opinions of Famous

People, illus. ..................... each, 20 cts.

The Jack London Club

Michael Broﬂher of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
\Vhat is the Jack London Club .......... $0.30 per 100

Foreword from “Michael Brother of Jerry”$0.30 per 100
Films, Fakes and Facts, Helen T‘revelyan

4 pp. .................................. .50 “ “
Do Wild Animals Prefer Captivity? Helen

Trevelyan, 4 pp. ...................... .50 “ "
Trained Animals —— Cruelty Disguised,

Helen Trevelyan, 4 pp. ................ .50 “ "

Humane Education

The Animal or the Child, Dr. Rowley... Free
Humane Education, An Activity of the
National Congress of Parents and

Teachers, by Dr. Francis H. Rowley Free
The Relation of the Home to Character

Formation, Dr. Francis H. Rowley .. Free
Humane Education and Spiritual Values,

Dr. Rowley ........................... Free
For Parents and Teachers, Plan of Work Free
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley .......... Free
The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools

96 pp. ................. 12 cents each; ten for $1.00

Care and Kindness for Our Animal

Friends, 32 pp., paper cove-rs, many

illus. .................. 10 cts. each: twelve for $1.00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp., 10 cts.; twelve for $1.00
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-

cation, 32 pp. ........................ each. 10 cts.
An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.

Gilbert, 48 pp. For first and second

grades ................................ each 10 cts.
”Be Kind to Animals" pennants ........ each 25 cts.
The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

Rowley ............................... cloth, 35 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use) Sarah J. Eddy .......... cloth, $1.00

A Place for Pets, play .. .2 cts. each; six for 10c.
The B—K—T—A—C'Iub, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 25c.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,”
play ........................ 3 cts. each; ten for 250.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play ......
3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.

Humane Sunday ..................... 10. each
I’ll Never Hunt Again, play 3 cts. each; five for 10 cts.
The Best Gift, play ........ 2 cts. each; six for 10 cts.
Humane Exercises ...................... $1.50 per 100

Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.
Rowley, short radio address, 2cts. each; .50
Humane Education, What to Teach and

How to Teach It ...................... .50 “
Outlines of Study in Humane Education 1.50 “ “
Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty .. .50 “ ‘
A Talk with the Teacher ................ .50 ”
Our Love for Animals, 3. short radio

address ..................... 2 cts. each; 1 00 “ '
Bookmark, with “A Humane Prayer” .. 1.00 “ ”
A Festival of Tender Mercies .......... .50 “ "
Need of Humane Education Societies

and Methods of Forming Them ....... .50 “
How to Organize a Society for the

Protection Of Animals ................ .50 “ "
Incidents about Animals, by Geo. T.

Angeli ........ . ....................... $1.00 per 100

Twenty Years of Be Kind to Animals
Week, Guy Richardson .. .3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.

Band of Mercy

“Be Kind to Animals Buttons,” three
styles—Band Of Mercy, Humane So-
ciety, or S. P. C. . ................ $1.00 per 100

Buttons—white star on blue ground with
gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00

Badges, gold finish, large, 10 cts., small 5cts.
”Band of Mercy” pennant ............ 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.

J. Eddy ............................... 50 cts.
Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words

only) ................................. $3.00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ...... .50 “ "
How to Form Bands of Mercy .......... .50 “ ”

Does it Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30 “ “

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

 




,  OURMAUMB
ANIMALS ,

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY
FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY
TO ANIMALS E7 THEAMERICAN
HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Page 110

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the first Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Office: 180‘ Longwood Av-
enue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWILEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. BIO‘RRILL, Assistant

 

JUNE, 1941

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS, to take orders for Our Dumb Animals,
are wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are
offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit-

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about 300 words, are solicited. We
do not wish to consider prose manuscripts longer
than 500 words nor verse in excess of twenty-four
lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts should
be typewritten and an addressed envelope with full
return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

Victory at Last!

N the May issue of Our Dumb Ani-

mals we told the story of the Society’s
struggle in the Massachusetts Legisla—
ture to defeat what was known as Senate
Bill 602, which would practically have
annulled the law which the humane
forces of Massachusetts won in 1934,
making it illegal to show horses at fairs
or exhibitions in the Commonwealth with
what are known as set-up tails.

The conﬂict over the Bill lasted for
weeks. The House voted against us, un-
fortunately, and the battle was then
waged in the Senate. First we won by a
vote of nineteen to eight. Then a motion
was passed to reconsider. When the Bill
came up for that purpose it was voted
to lay it on the table, and ﬁnally, on
Tuesday, May 6, the debate started all
over again. For over two hours, argu-
ments for and against were presented,
and Senate Bill 602 was defeated.

The following Senators voted for us:

Babcock, Frank D. Lee, Robert L.
Blanchard, Arthur F. Mackay, John D.

Bowers, Richard S. Montminy, Joseph F.

Casey, P. Eugene Murphy, Joseph L.
Dolan, Chester A, Jr. Olson, Charles W.

Grant, William P. Richardson, Harris S.

Harrington, Joseph Stanton, George W.
B. Sullivan, Bernard L.

Hogan Charles V. Sullivan, Charles F.

Hollis, Arthur W. Jeff—19

Krapf, George W.

The following Senators voted against
us:

Brackman, David M. MacDonald, Donald
Coolidge, Arthur W. A.

Curtis, Laurence Miles, Charles G.

Giroux, Eugene H. Nicholson, Donald W.

Gunn, James A. Nolen, William E.
Haley, Cornelius F. Petersen, Tycho M.
Johnston, Thomas H. Sullivan, Leo J.—14
Lundgren, Harold R.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

These Senators were paired:

FOR US AGAINST US
Newland H. Holmes Joseph F. Francis

(present) Louis B. Connors
Mason Sears (present)
Jarvis Hunt Thomas J. Lane
(present) -——6
A F riend—N ot a Foe

HAT well-known naturalist, Thorn-

ton W. Burgess, whose animal stories
are based upon long and intimate study
of so many creatures that live with us
and around us, has very kindly sent us
the following about a little fellow whom
he calls “Jimmy Skunk—True Ameri-
can:”

The eagle is the national bird—the
ofﬁcial living emblem of the United
States—and at long last has been given
the Federal protection it should have had
in the beginning. If a national bird,
why not a national mammal? The eagle
is not an American citizen in the sense
that it is found only in America. It is
represented by one species or another
over most of the world. But we have a
mammal that is truly American, found
only in the Americas, and in the United
States a resident of every state from
coast to coast. It is the skunk.

Aside from the fact that his race is
indigenous to America, and that is im-
portant, Jimmy Skunk is more truly
representative of what our nation is, or
should be than any other animal I know
of.

He is adequately, effectively armed at
all times, but it is for defense, not
offense. And it is only under provoca-
tion, such as he may think is a threat
of harm, that he uses his weapons. When
he does shoot, the results are so disas~
trous that as a rule the enemy beats an
immediate and ignominious retreat. The
result is he has universal respect, even
from those many times his own size.
When they meet, the bear steps aside,
not Jimmy.

He is absolutely independent, yet does
not abuse that independence. He has the
complete respect of all his neighbors.
He minds his own business and expects
others to mind theirs. He is not quar-
relsome. Unafraid, he goes and comes
at will, for his freedom is complete. He
is at all times a gentleman. He is a use-
ful citizen, for he is an indefatigable
destroyer of injurious insects and small
rodents. And through the value of his
fur he adds annually a considerable sum
to the national income.

To call a man of questionable char-
acter a skunk is an insult to the animal
and an exposure of ignorance.

I give you Jimmy Skunk—true Ameri—
can.

Please remember the Massachusetts
S. P. C. A. when making your will.

June, 191,1

The Springfield Auxiliary

HE annual meeting of the Spring-

ﬁeld Auxiliary occurred Thursday,
May 8, at the Longmeadow Country
Club, Longmeadow, Massachusetts. It
was an unusually colorful gathering, a
large membership attending the lunch—
eon. President Rowley was present and
spoke briefly, expressing his hearty ap-
preciation of the ﬁne work that had been
done by the Auxiliary for the Springﬁeld
Animal Hospital, a branch of the Angell
Memorial Animal Hospital of Boston.

A spirit of co-operation and unmistak-
able harmony prevailed. The retiring
president, Mrs. Morton B. Miner, gave
an interesting report of the work ac-
complished during her presidency, which
merited the general applause it received.
The incoming president, Mrs. Carlton H.
Garinger, was introduced, and it was
easily gathered from what she said that
the leadership of the Auxiliary would be
in wise and competent hands, steadily
gaining in strength and usefulness as
it has ever since its organization.

The following ofﬁcers were elected:
president, Mrs. Carlton H. Garinger;
ﬁrst Vice—president, Mrs. Walter J.
Dubon; second vice-president, Mrs. Rob-
ert R. Miller; recording secretary, Mrs.
Harry B. Ellis; corresponding secre-
tary, Mrs. A. Mayo Fisk; treasurer, Mrs.
Richard A. Booth. The following direc-
tors were elected: Mrs. Harold G. Duck-
worth, Mrs. Dwight W. Ellis, Mrs. Char-
lena B. Kibbe, Mrs. Stuart M. Robson,
Mrs. Harold S. Treworgy, (leaving one
vacancy to be ﬁlled later.)

This Month’s F rontispiece

“Gibert,” the horse shown on this
month’s front cover, is now almost tail-
less, but he saved himself and seven
other horses from death during the air
raid on Coventry, England. An incendi-
ary bomb crashed through the stable and
set ﬁre to his tail. The horse lashed out,
forced the bomb through the open stable
door by which the rescuers were enter-
ing and then put out his own particular
ﬁre by rubbing against the stall.

The photograph is from the Journal,
Nottingham, England.

To show the extent of the cruelty in
Rome, at the inauguration of the Colos-
seum, in 80 A. D., 5,000 Wild beasts and
6,000 tame ones were butchered.

The docking of horses’ tails is illegal
in Massachusetts and in many other
states of the Union. Of this cruel prac-
tice the famous English artist, Watts,
once said, “It is a brutal fashion, a dis-
grace to our civilization, more degrad-
ing than bull-ﬁghting, for it is merely
a caprice of fashion.”

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 190

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the first Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Office: 180 Longwood Av-
enue, Boston, Mass, to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWIJEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

 

OCTOBER, 1941

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS, to take orders for Our Dumb .Animals,
are wanted everywhere. Liberal comm1ss1ons are
offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about 300 words, are solicited. We
do not wish to consider prose manuscripts longer
than 500 words nor verse in excess of twenty-four
lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts should
be typewritten and an addressed envelope with full
return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

This Month’s Frontispiece

HE picture on this month’s cover was

the ﬁfth prize winner in our recent
contest, and was submitted by N. C.
Ehlke of Rhinelander, Wisconsin. The
dog is a cocker spaniel who had a litter
of only one puppy. She took up with the
pet rabbit to add bulk to her family, and
seems to prefer the rabbit to the puppy.

An Elephant Laughs at Locks

UR Humane Education representa-

tive in Ireland, 'Mr.” Michael O’Con-
nor, sends us the following, taken from
the Evening Herald of Dublin:

“At the Dublin Zoo during Friday
night’s raid, a bomb fell near the Gar-
dens. ‘Sara,’ the cow elephant, gave a
remarkable display of animal instinct
and incidentally performed a rare, jail-
breaking feat by opening four iron pad-
locks and unbolting three gates en route
to her conception of safety.”

The superintendent of the Zoo, Mr. C.
L. Flood, continues, “The inner gate of
her stall had two padlocks which Sara
continued to shake with the little ‘ﬁnger’
on top of her trunk until they opened.

“She then removed them and with the
same ‘ﬁnger’ pulled back the two bolts——
one underneath and one on top. She
dealt similarly with the lock on the sec-
ond gate, unscrewed a shackle in the
outer gate, crossed a fence without dam-
aging it, and moved down to the edge
of the lake where she lay down among
the bullrushes, which she possibly re—
garded as the best available imitation of
the jungle thicket.

“I had only to shout at her, ‘What
are you doing there?’ and she started to
return to her stall immediately.”

Please remember. the Massachusetts
S. P. C. A. when making your will.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

F ox-Hunting Still Goes on in

England

THE Animals’ Friend tells us of at
least a dozen or more hunt meets that
have been held during the past season.
We are told that 4,000 fox hounds are
still left in England. In answer to an
appeal it is said that the Old Berkshire
Hunt has received over 1,000 pounds,
thus enabling the club to carry on for
another season.

It is hard for us over here, who read of
all that England is enduring because of
this unspeakable war, to think of such
sports still going on. Let us hope that
the self-denial and loss are not as great
as we have been led to believe.

Humane Trap Prizes Awarded

PRIZES totaling $640 have been

awarded inventors and trappers in
the humane trap contest sponsored by
the American Humane Association of
Albany, N. Y.

“For fourteen years, through these
contests, we have been making a world-
wide search for devices that will trap
animals with a minimum of suffering,"
declared W. E. Sanderson, the Associa-
tion’s Wild Life director. “Years of re-
search have brought us nearer our goal
in enlightening the world concerning
true conservation and the justice due our
wild life.”

And This Happened in Detroit

Reading in some paper about an eight-
foot wall being built in Detroit to shut
out a section of the city inhabited by
colored people from their white neigh-
bors, we wrote to the Reverend Horace
A. White, asking if this could be true.
The following letter tells the story:

Dear Dr. Rowley:

Thank you for your kind letter. The
quotation that you attribute to me is
correct. The facts are simply these:

In the northwest section of our city
we have a colored settlement which is
about twenty years old. Subsequently,
whites began to go into that section and
build homes. An enterprising real estate
dealer erected an eight-foot wall between
the white and the negro section. The
wall was very bad taste and psychologi-
cally wrong.

I am very glad to know that you are
interested in this thing. The public opin—
ion here in Detroit has caused the build-
ing of the wall to cease. People like you
make it possible for our democracy to
have a chance to work.

Respectfully yours,
(Signed) HORACE A. WHITE, Minister,
Plymouth Congregational Church

Member, Detroit Housing Commission
Comment is unnecessary.

Oct. 1941

“Jack,” a Career Dog

PRINGFIELD, Mass, papers recently

paid ﬁne tributes to a German shep—
herd dog, named “Jack,” who had at—
tached himself to the Angell Animal
Hospital on Bliss Street, and for nine
years made himself a friendly and use—
ful adjunct to that institution. He was

 

“JACK,” LATE MASCOT OF S.P.C.A.,
SPRINGFIELD BRANCH

a watch dog of keen intelligence and
kindly disposition, though given up by
his owner as an “unwanted dog, cross
and not good with children.” Jack
proved the exact opposite, rendering
such faithful service as to attract the
attention of everyone connected with the
Hospital. His sense of responsibility
was remarkable; he qualiﬁed for the job
of his own adoption. He died through
the inﬁrmities of age. He was greatly
missed and will be long remembered.

Be Kind to Animals Week

It comes annually in April. The dates
for 1942 are: Humane Sunday, April 19;
Be Kind to Animals Week, April 20-25.
Although it seems a long vway off,
already arrangements are being made
for the usual celebration. The Massachu-
setts S. P. C. A. has again engaged the
popular writer and lecturer, Mr. Thorn-
ton W. Burgess, to present an illustrated
lecture in the hall of the Boston Public
Library, Copley Square, on Humane Sun-
day, April 19, at 3:30 P. M. The subject
will be: “My Little Neighbors in Fur
and Feathers,” with motion pictures in
color.

Boston Watering Stations

The downtown hydrant stations in
Boston, from which the Massachusetts
S. P. C. A. supplied drinks for horses
during the hot weather, were closed
September 6.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Sept. 1941

Where the Colt Sleeps

Judy Van der

It the colt had lived he would
Have thought the world was very good.

Veer

The pasture would seem big and wide,
He’d dare not leave his mother's side.

He’d toss his head and stand and look
In wonder at the crazy brook.

He’d taste the grass and sample flowers,
Artd sleep through all the warmest hours.

But soon he'd grow so bold he’d run
And kick his small hoots at the sun.

And when his mother said stay near
He would pretend he did not hear.

He’d snort and shy at fearsome things
Like rippling grass and sound of wings.

In time he'd grow so big and tall
He would not seem a colt at all.

But now he's down beneath the grass,
He does not hear his mother pass.

Or knew that it is good to sleep
Where it is dark and safe and deep.

There is so much he does not know
I think it may be better so.

Animals and Children

DOLLY STRONG RAMBO

0 not deny your boy the pleasure of

owning a dog. It Will be one of the
happy memories that will come down
through the years. It is an instinctive
desire for every normal boy. It gives
him the incomparable feeling of having
something that is his very own and that
is very much alive.

His dog is a real companion, sensitive
to his every mood and means more to
him than anything else in‘the world. So
nearly human is this faithful friend and
so true is the boy’s love for it that he is
taught sportsmanship in relation to his
associates. So give Sonny his dog. Think
not of the care the dog takes nor the
food he eats; it is part of your boy’s
training and Will bring more happiness
to him than you perhaps realize.

And just a word for the cat and its
place in the heart of little daughter. The
natural mother instinct that so early
manifests itself needs something on
which to bestow its affection, and the
cat, soft and cuddly, quite ﬁlls this place
with the girl. Then let us not scold when
the little woolly kitten is brought home,
for her love for it is very real and chil—
dren who have their own pets are not
likely to be unkind to any animal.

OUR

DUMB ANIMALS

 

Page 1'75

Our Debt to the Reindeer
SIGMUND SAMETH, M.A.

 

THE REINDEER BROUGHT PROSPERITY TO ALASKA

F all the familiar animals which
0 man has gathered around him,

said the late John Muir, famous
American naturalist, “the reindeer are
the tamest. Cows in a barnyard, milked
and petted every day, are not half so
gentle 1” It’s no wonder then that a child
can handle a herd of a hundred of these
antlered creatures, and right in our own
territorial possession of Alaska as you
read these words, youngsters of six and
seven years old are busy tending these
shaggy steeds of the Arctic.

The reindeer is completely ﬁtted to the
bleak environment which is his home.
Although northern peoples have domesti-
cated him since 500 AD, association
with man has not made the reindeer a
“softie.” He needs no more shelter from
a blizzard than a Texas longhorn steer
needs from the rain. His food is the
spongy lichen of the Arctic known as
“reindeer moss,” found underfoot every—
where. With sharp—edged hooves the
reindeer can dig his way through ﬁve
feet of snow and ice to get to his winter
meal if necessary. In the summer the
tender shoots of willow, and succulent
tundra grasses tempt him, but when the
snows fall and summer vegetation dies
off he returns willingly to more prosaic
fare and fattens and thrives where no
other animal could exist.

Until you have seen a native Alaskan
tending his prize reindeer, you can not
realize what devotion can exist between
master and beast. Useful as a draft ani-
mal, and for milk as well, the reindeer
in famine times gives up his life that his
master may live. Except under dire
emergencies however, no native owner
would think of slaughtering his steed.
How much more useful and attractive he

is prancing on tiny sharp-edged hooves
in front of a streamlined wooden sledge.
On the streets of Alaskan towns, even
in mid-summer, the sledges may be seen
lined up, freshly oiled and with the har-
ness neatly rolled up. The driver has
turned his reindeer loose to forage for
a few hours. He knows that the animals
will quickly return on the signal of the
master’s whistle.

Reindeer are better than Eskimo dogs
for sledge hauling on the inland pla-
teaus. Whereas the dogs require ﬁsh or
seal meat as food, reindeer feed them-
selves even in mid-winter. They don’t
need shelter either, and prefer to stand
in the lee of an ice hummock or a clump
of dwarf trees rather than enter a closed
building such as a barn or shed.

A good team of reindeer cover from 75
to 100 miles in a day. Near Nome,
Alaska, every year an annual race is
held. At one of these events a team trav-
eled ten miles across rough country in
thirty minutes. No other means of con-
veyance in the Arctic is so swift. In
Asia and Northern EurOpe man has used
the reindeer for centuries to solve haul-
age problems and to furnish a perma-
nent food supply of milk and rich nu-
tritious cheese.

Youthful herders on foot have an easy
task tending them. Since they are gre—
garious, the leader alone may be driven
and the rest of the herd will follow
docilely. Children hardly more than tod—
dlers may walk with the animals with
perfect safety. The reindeer has learned
to expect care and kindness from man
and therefore has no fear of him. They
never stampede, as a herd of frightened
cattle may do. Neither do they drift and
mill around during a blizzard like cattle

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 168

A Puppy Solved My Problem
L E S T E R B A N K S

OWN a house of four four-room ﬂats.

I dislike to ask a desirable tenant to
move merely because she has a child,
though this three-year—old is “all boy”
and hard to control. Circumstances re-
quire my living several blocks from the
ﬂats, and between my Visits the property,
especially the lawn and ﬂowers, are fre—
quently abused.

My caretaker keeps most of the neigh-
boring children out of our yard, but the
little fellow just across the fence is—-I
should say was—determined to use my
yard as his very own. He was doing it
a year before I bought the property, and
at the age of four he can’t be expected
to understand about change of owner—
ship.

“I can keep Billie out of mischief,”
said my tenant, “until that little rascal
Ralph comes in; the two of them are
too much for anyone.”

“Let Billie play in Ralph’s yard part
of the time,” I suggested.

“No, I’d rather not have my boy with
that pest,” she replied, “but he has a
right to play in his own yard.”

Naturally, I went to Ralph’s parents.
But the father has to be away all day,
and the mother—well, she’s just one of
those persons who doesn’t give a darn!
Nice people, though; owners of their
home; it would have been indiscreet to
quarrel with them.

Matters went from bad to worse. I
knew that even if I made Billie’s mother
move, Ralph would still give trouble; it
seemed more logical to effect a change

“NANNY,” Prize-winning photograph
(See page 164)

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

(See page 164)

 

of Viewpoint in Ralph himself. Finally,
when the “pest” turned all the oil out of
one of the tanks (for circulating oil
heaters)———right out onto the grass—I
acted.

With the permission of his mother, I
got Ralph a puppy. We had a new kitten
at our house (where we live), but I
knew that it would soon be going over
the fence—and Ralph after it. Even if
the puppy found his way into my yard
I knew he’d be chased out without mercy,
for my caretaker dislikes dogs particu—
larly. At last my mind was working.

The trouble now is to keep other chil-
dren, including Billie, out of Ralph’s
yard; for Ralph and the puppy have no
end of fun, The dog has brought out a
new feature in the “pest.” We all had
thought him utterly careless, but he’s
exceptionally tender with the puppy,
even jealous of it.

It was two dollars well spent; I got the
puppy at a pet store. I still have my
tenant in the ﬂat; I have made good
friends of the neighbors; and, best of all,

_ I have given a father and mother a dem—

onstration of the value of pets in bring-
ing up a child. The boy’s interest in the
dog has brought more parental interest
in the boy; he isn’t by any means as
hopeless as parents and neighbors had
thought

Only the female mosquito bites. The
mouth of the male is not equipped for
the sucking of blood.

Wild life suffers a heavy toll annually
from depredations of insects. Lice and
ticks cause damage hard to compute.
Such blood-sucking insects transmit com—
municable diseases which cause much
sickness resulting in serious losses.

 

 

Sept. 1941

The Resurrection of “Bobo”

A true dog story
IRVING APPLEBY

HE writer is manager of a popular
but dangerous bathing beach main-
tained by the Commonwealth of Massa-
chusetts, and is responsible for the
training, in the associated ﬁelds of ﬁrst
aid and life saving, of several thousand
police, ﬁremen, life guards and safety
men. In some thirty years of this work
he has worked on over seven hundred
asphyxiations but never on a stranger
case than that of “Bobo,” a thorough-
bred French bulldog who was the pride
and joy of the habitues of our beach. ‘
Bobo had three outstanding accom-
plishments. First, he could catch a rub-
ber ball from almost any height, or grab
it with a solid “chop” of his wide jaws
when it was hurled directly at him, full
force, from close range. Second, he could
stand on his tail in deep water and spin
like‘a top for minutes at a time. Third,
he loved all humanity and was loved in
turn by all who knew him. On a sultry
August day in 1987, Frank Taylor,
owner of this splendid dog, found it
necessary to make an all day’s journey
by train to northern New England.
Deeming it inadvisable to subject the
sensitive animal to the long train ride,
he left it with his sister giving her
strict orders to feed it but once daily
and only the carefully prepared ration
to which the little bull was accustomed.
But his sister, little realizing the Vital
necessity of strict obedience to such
orders, allowed her spirit of generosity
to take precedence over her common
sense. She permitted poor foolish Bobo
to gorge himself on greasy corned—beef
brisket and two hours later brought him
down to the beach. The little fellow en-
tered the river on the run and at a point
about one hundred feet from shore, in
water about eight feet in depth opened
his famous spinning act.

From the deep-water raft where I was
instructing a class in life saving I saw
Bobo putting on his usual antics to the
laughter and applause of several hun-
dred people. A few minutes later a series
of piercing screams rent the air and
hundreds of people were seen rushing to
the water’s edge. It was a strange tab-
leau that presented itself to me in the
split second before I went into action;
Bobo drifting quietly on his side, his
head mostly submerged, and Miss Tay-
lor fully dressed, struggling through the
water in a vain attempt to save him.
Even as I dove to commence my two-
hundred-foot sprint to her aid I was
horror-stricken to note that this woman
could not swim a single stroke and that
already, off her feet in about six feet of
water, she was gasping out her life.

She was unconscious, cyanotic and had

 

 

 




 

 

Page 50

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the first Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Office: 180 Longwood Av-
enue, Boston, Mass, to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. RO‘WLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
' WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

 

MARCH, 1941

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS, to take orders for Our Dumb Animals,
are wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are
offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about three hundred words, are solic-
ited. We do not wish to consider prose manuscripts
longer than 500 words nor verse in excess of twenty-
four lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts
should be typewritten and an addressed envelope with
full return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

“Objects of Envy”

THIS is the title of an editorial appear-
ing in the Manchester (Connecticut)
Herald, from which we quote as follows:

One of the most faithful Visitors to
the newspaper desks of the nation is the
monthly magazine Our Dumb Animals,
published by the Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
at Boston. Its January, 1941, issue is
No. 1 of Volume 74. In other words it is
73 years old. It celebrates the occasion
with a new red cover and it has changed
to a better and larger type-face.

Frankly, we envy the people who make
this magazine. Theirs is the job of con-
stantly propagandizing for an objective
which scarcely ever arouses antagonism.

Tens of thousands of great presses all
over the world roar with the shouting of
hatred and deﬁance and slogans of death
and destruction.

It must be a rather ﬁne way of life,
this having to deal with animals instead
of men, this being able to think and
write only about creatures who, at least,
live as their creator intended that they
should and do not degrade their gifts,
as human beings so often and so fright-
fully degrade theirs.

Our New England Elms

A welcome word comes to us from the
annual report of the Massachusetts For-
est and Park Association, telling us that
the deadly fungus, causing the dreaded
elm disease which has threatened the
destruction of one of New England’s
glories—its elms—it is believed can be
eradicated. Thousands of these lovely
trees have been destroyed in certain
states south of Massachusetts, but up to
the present the fatal blight has not
crossed our border.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

The Land of Lynchers

ROM 1931 to 1935 inclusive, there
were 83 lynchings in the following
States:

Alabama 5, Arkansas 1, California 3,
Florida 7, Georgia 6, Kansas 1, Ken—
tucky 2, Louisiana 13, Maryland 1, Mis-
sissippi 19, Missouri 2, North Carolina
2, North Dakota 1, Ohio 1, South Caro-
lina 4, Tennessee 6, Texas 6, Virginia 1,
West Virginia 2.

From 1936 to 1940 inclusive, there
were 30 in the following States:

Alabama 3, Arkansas 1, Florida 7,
Georgia 10, Louisiana 1, Mississippi 6,
Tennessee 2.

There were two more lynchings in
1940 than in 1939; one more than in
1938.

This report, which comes to us from
The Southern Frontier, says that “the
cause for the rise in the number of
lynchings is the same old one of fear on
the part of economically depressed white
people, intensiﬁed by the growing asser-
tiveness of Negroes for a place in the
sun.” These lynchings are still a shame
and a reproach to a land that guarantees
the right of trial to all accused of crime
within its borders.

Fashion and Cruelty

ROM Mrs. E. C. Dow, president of

the Chicago Humane Education So-
ciety, comes the report of a resolution
which she secured from the Chicago and
Cook County Federation of Women’s
Organizations. It reads that “these Or-
ganizations go on record as opposing the
trafﬁc in wild bird plumage, whether
said plumage comes from within or with-
out the United States, and solicits the
co-operation of its afﬁliated organiza-
tions and that of humane individuals in
refusing any part in this trafﬁc.”

As our readers know, regardless of
laws that have been passed, the millinery
trade seems to be endeavoring to revive
the forbidden practice of adorning the
hats of women with feathers at the
sacriﬁce of beautiful winged wild life.

Mrs. Dow sends us a leaﬂet from
which we take the following:

“Beware of propaganda and paid
testimonials to bring back the old savage
fashion of feathered hats! It will mean,
in large measure, the wholesale slaugh-
ter of beautiful song and plumage birds.

“Birds are the most valuable protec-
tion there is against insects that destroy
vegetation. Scientists have warned of
the danger of insects winning against
mankind. We must save the birds to
save ourselves. God would prefer to have
His birds in His sky rather than man’s
bombs.

“Refuse to buy feathered hats. Take
off feathers or birds you may already
have on your hats, so as not to encour-
age others to fall for the propaganda.”

Mar. 19.41

JANUARY REPORT OF THE OFFICERS
OF THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.,
WITH HEADQUARTERS AT BOSTON,
METHUEN, SPRINGFIELD, PITTSFIELD,
ATTLEBORO, WENHAM, HYANNIS, WOR—
CESTER, FITCHBURG, NORTHAMPTON,
HAVERHILL, HOLYOKE, ATHOL, TAUN-
TON, COVERING THE ENTIRE STATE

Miles traveled by humane officers . . 16,596

Cases investigated ............. 255
Animals examined ............. 2,743
Animals placed in homes ....... 230
Lost animals restored to owners. . 77
Number of prosecutions ......... 2
Number of convictions .......... 2
Horses taken from work ........ 4
Horses humanely put to sleep. . . . 50
Small animals humanely put to sleep 1,574
Horse auctions attended ........ ' l5
Stockyards and Abattoirs
Animals inspected ............. 54,852
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep ................ 66

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

REPORT FOR JANUARY

At 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

Cases entered in Hospital ........ 754
Cases entered in Dispensary ...... 1,502
Operations , ...................... 377

At Springﬁeld Branch, 53 Bliss Street

Cases entered in Hospital ........ 209
Cases entered in Dispensary ...... 631
Operations ....................... 136
At Attleboro Clinic, 3 Commonwealth Ave.
Cases entered ................... 80
Totals

Hospital cases since opening, Mar.
1, 1915 ....................... 190,939
Dispensary Cases ............... 481,224
Total .............. 672,163

“Seabiscuit” the King

HATEVER our attitude toward

horse-racing, we must pay our
tribute to a great horse when he adds
his name to the list of history’s most
glorious steeds, and such a one is the
noble “Seabiscuit,” Stake King, shown
on our cover, with seven of his children.
He is at the ranch of his owner, Charles
S. Howard, in northern California. The
world knows him as the all-time high-
money winner of the American turf. He
was retired for breeding purposes in
May, 1940. His last race was the tri—
umph at the $100,000 added Santa Anita
Handicap on March 2, 1940.

However, many an unknown and un-
sung lowly horse, the victim of man’s
ill-treatment and cruelty whose life has
been only toil and trouble, may well seem
worthier of our honor and our tribute
than even the famous Seabiscuit. For-
tune has led him along the primrose way.

 




 

 

 

 

KEEP YOUR DOGS

  
  

MA

"WORM CAPSULES

Use Nema Capsules to remove
large roundworms and hook-
ﬁ worms. Effective—Dependable.
WM”. F R E E Send for Nema
“ booklet No. 652.

1‘ Write to Animal Industry Dept, Desk N58”
PARKE, DAVIS & 00., DETROIT, MICH.

Drug Stores Sell Parke-Davis Products

     
 
 
  

 

 

Compliments of
GALLUP and HADLEY
Attorneys and Counsellors-at-Law

DANA T. GALLUP 6 BEACON s'r.,
EDWIN W. HADLEY BOSTON, MASS.

 

 

 

 

NEW ENGLAND ANTI—GAMBLING
ASSOCIATION. INc.
6 BEACON ST.. BOSTON. MAss.

“We compliment the M. S. P. C. A. on its
noble work to prevent cruelty to racing
animals."

EDWIN W. HADLEY, President

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and similar externally caused blemishes. . .
Help relieve them with mildly medicated

SOAP AND
OINTMENT

CUTICUR

 

 

 

 

 

The Right Films Promote

Humane Education

THE BELL OF ATRI
illustrating Longfellow’s poem,
and
IN BEHALF OF ANIMALS

showing the practical work of the
Massachusetts 8'. P. C. A. and the
Angeli Animal Hospital. For terms

Address
Secretary, 180 Longwood Ave.

Boston

 

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1832

.r. s. WATERMAN & sous, Inc.
Hithertakrrs

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE

City and out-of—town service

 

 

 

 

Humane literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For sale by the American Humane Education Society and the Massachusetts 5. P. C. A.,

180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass, at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold—face type

Our Dumb Animals, 1940, bound volume $1.00
Our Dumb Animals, 1936, 1937, and 1939

bound volume, each .................. .75
Colored Posters, 17 X 28 inches, attrac—

tive pictures and verses, six in set 1.00
Colored Posters, 17 X 22 inches, eight in

the set ................ 5 cts. each; eight for 35 cts.

Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 6% x 3% $0.50 per 100

About the Horse

Black Beauty (English). cloth .. ...... 50 cts.
The Horse—Treatment of Sores, etc. . . $0.60 per 100
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 5 ........ .50 “ “
The Horse’s Prayer .................... .30 “ “
How to Treat a Horse .................. .50 “ “

The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow .. .50

About the Dog

Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 ........ small, 50 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free '
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest. post-card $1.00 per 100
The Dog Its Care in Health and Disease .00 ‘ “

 

Suggestions for Feeding Dogs .......... 2.00 “ “
Important Advice on Feeding the Dog

and the Cat —— by Dr. Rudolph H.

Schneider , , ..... .... . 1.00 “ “
Humane Education Leaflets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ “
What the Chained Dog Says .......... .50 “
The Story of Barry .................... .30 “
“Don” and His Boy Scout Friends, J. P.

Lyons ................................. .50 “ “
Road Accidents to Dogs, 4 pp. ........ Free
Boots’ Day, Play, for two boys and three

girls ..................... 3 cts. each; five for 10‘ cts.

About the Bird

The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus ........ cloth, $0.45
Humane Education Leaflets, Nos. 1 and 2.$0.50 per 100
How the Birds Help the Farmer ........ .50 “ “
The Air—Gun and the Birds .............. .50 “ “
The Care of Caged Canaries ............ .30 “ “

About the Cat

The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease.$0.60 per 100

The Cat in Literature .................. .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ...... .50 “ “
Mollie VVhitefoot’s Vacation ............ .50 “ “

“The Beggar Cat,” post-card, G cts. doz. .50 “ “

About Other Animals

The Strike at Shane’s cloth, 30 cts. . paper, 7cts.

For l’ity’s Sake ........................ paper, 5 cts.
The Great Cruelty Again, Dr. Rowley.. Free
First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp.$1.00 per 100‘
Gripped in the Teeth of' Steel, 2 pp. .50 “ “

How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. 1.00 “ “
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 6, Animals .50 ” “

\Vays of Kindness ...................... .50 “ “
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 7, Farm

Animals .................... . .......... .50 “ “
A \Vise Fish ............................ .50 “ “
Care of Rabbits ........................ .30 “ “
Hints on the Care of Cows ............ .50 “ “
Directions for the Care of Swine ........ 1.00 “ “
Professor Frog’s Lecture, 8 pp. ........ .75 “ “
Why the Toad is so Useful .............. .30 “ “
Jewish and Gentile Methods of Slaugh-

tering, illus. .......................... each, 15 cts.
Vivisection—The Opinions of Famous

People, illus. ......................... each, 20 cts.

The Jack London Club

Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
What is the Jack London Club? ........ $0.30 per 100

are of books or booklets

Foreword from “Michael Brother of Jerry”$0.30 per 100

Films, Fakes and Facts, Helen Trevelyan

4 pp. ................................. .50 “ “
Do Wild Animals Prefer Captivity?

Helen Trevelyan, 4 pp. .............. .50 “ “
Trained Animals — Cruelty Disguised,

Helen Trevelyan, 4 pp. ................ .50 “ ‘

Humane Education

The Animal or the Child, Dr. Rowley.. Free
Humane Education, An Activity of the
National Congress of Parents and

Teachers, by Dr. Francis H. Rowley Free
The Relation of the Home to Clharacter

Formation, Dr. Francis H. Rowley Free
Humane Education and Spiritual Values,

Dr. Rowley ........................... Free
For Parents and Teachers, Plan of Work Free
A Great Prophecy, Dr. -l0wley ........ Free
The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools

96 pp. .................. 12 cents each; ten for $1.00

Care and Kindness for Our Animal

Friends, 32 pp., paper covers, many

illus. .................. 10 cts. each; twelve for $1.00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp., 10 cts.; twelve for $1.00
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu—

cation, 32 pp. ........................ each, 10 cts.
An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia. F.

Gilbert, 48 pp. For first and second

grades ................................ each 10 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ........ each '25 cts.
The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

Rowley ................................ cloth, 35 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use) Sarah J. Eddy ............ cloth, $1.00
A Place for Pets, play ....... 2 cts. each; six for 100.

The B—Ii—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 25c.
"And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,”

play ....................... 3 cts. each; ten for 25c.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play ......

3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.

Humane Sunday ....................... lc. each

I’ll Never Hunt Again, play 3 cts. each; five for 10 cts.

The Best Gift, play ........ 2 cts. each; six for 10 cts.

Humane Exercises ...................... $1.50 per 100

Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.
Rowrey, short radio address, 2 cts. each; .50 “ “
Humane Education, What to Teach and

HOW to Teach It ...................... .50 “ “
Outlines of Study in Humane Education 1.50 “ “
Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty .. .50 “ “
A Talk with the Teacher .............. .50 “ “
Cur Love for Animals, a short radio

address ..................... 2 cts. each; 1.00 “ ‘
Bookmark, with “A Humane Prayer” 1.00 “ “
A Festival of Tender Mercies .......... .50 “ “
Need of Humane Education Societies

and Methods of Forming Them ........ .50 “ ‘
How to Organize a Society for the

Protection of Animals ................ .50 “ “
Incidents about Animals, by Geo. T.

Angeli ................................. 1.00 “ "

Twenty Years of Be Kind to Animals
Week, Guy Richardson . .3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.

Band of Mercy

“Be Kind to Animals Buttons," three
styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So-
ciety, or S. P C. A. .................. $1.00 per 100

Buttons—white star on blue ground with
gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00

(E ‘(

Badges, gold finish, large, 10 cts., small 5cts.
“Band of Mercy” pennant ............ 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.

J. Eddy ............................... 50 cts.
Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words

only) .................................. $3.00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ...... .50 “ "
How to Form Bands of Mercy .......... .50 ”

It on

Does it Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

3.
l
l
,r

 




 

Feb. 191,1

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 25

Remarkable Camel Records
EWEN K. PATTERSON

 

AN UNUSUAL VIEW OF CAMEL TRANSPORT—HAULING A WAGON-LOAD OF FIREWOOD IN

 

Will They Kill Them All ‘2

CHARLES R. DUTTON

A RECENT announcement issued by

Maine’s Fish and Game Commis-
sioner, George J. Stobie, states that
22,122 deer were legally killed. in the Pine
Tree State during the last hunting sea-
son. Unfortunately legal records tell only
half of the story.

The fall of the year is always the
poachers’ busiest season, for at that time
there is a ready market for every deer
that they kill. The amount that they ob—
tain from the sale of the animals ranges
from $5 for a small doe, up to $20 for a
big buck. Of course, the prices vary
somewhat according to the generosity of
the buyer. '

Poaching pays so well that a good
many woodsmen drop their other work
during the fall months and depend en-
tirely upon their ability to shoot straight
to provide them with their living. Many
usually law-abiding sportsmen will buy
a deer rather than return home empty
handed. This is particularly true around
hunting lodges where paid guides shoot
the deer for every man staying at the
lodge.

Deer are plentiful in Maine today, but
moose and caribou were just as plentiful
only a few short years ago. Look at what
wholesale slaughter has done to the ranks
of those noble animals! Only a pitifully
few of either are to be found in Maine’s
forests today. Let us hope, fervently, that
the deer do not follow suit.

THE INTERIOR OF AUSTRALIA

LTHOUGH camels cannot be de-
Ascribed as lovable or attractive-

looking creatures, they are noted
for their tenacity, their untiring march—
ing powers, and, above all, their remark—
able ability to travel long distances with-
out water. It is this latter feature that
makes them so valuable for work in
desert country and other waterless
regions.

It is not generally realized, however,
just how long a camel can go without
water in a dewless region without suffer-
ing any injury. The most remarkable
case on record was the performance not
long ago of a team of six camels in the
heart of Australia. These animals were
being used to transport members of a
scientiﬁc party on an exploring expedi-
tion through desert country, and on one
stage of the journey they traveled a dis-
tance of 537 miles in thirty—four days
without having a drop of water to drink!
The whole of the journey was through
dewless country, including stretches of
some of the worst sandhill country on the
globe, but the camels were entirely un-
affected by their lack of water over such
a long period. That is the greatest length
of time camels have ever been known to
do without water, without suffering.

In many parts of the world camels are
extensively used for transport purposes,
and a remarkable record, believed to be
without parallel, stands to the credit of a
forty-year-old Australian camel, known
as “Lalla.” For ten years Lalla was used
for carrying mails in desert country in
the center of Australia; he covered ap—
proximately 100 miles each week, or a
total of 52,000 miles in the ten years.

 

Then he was exported to South Africa to
be used for carrying mails across a
treacherous stretch of waterless desert,
100 miles wide, in the northern Cape
Province, and every week for the last
twenty—ﬁve years he has been carrying
mails across this desert, covering the
journey in approximately eight hours.
Including the return trip, Lalla has al-
ready traveled nearly 260,000, miles with
the mails in South Africa, and this, with
the 52,000 miles he traveled in Aus-
tralia, makes his grand total 312,000
miles—surely a world’s record for a mail-
carrying camel!

Camels have obviously evolved in the
desert, for their ﬂat, padded feet are
designed for treading on soft sand or‘
hard rocks, and their nostrils are fur-
nished with muscles which can close them
up in a sandstorm. They are also the
safest animals to ride, simply because
they never fall; they can throw their
long legs out in any direction on the
instant, and though they trip they never
come down.

Gray Squirrel Scarf
O I g a 0 w e n 5

These thirty-six small bodies on your breast
In June were infants trisking in the sun;

You cannot meet October with their zest,
You never stopped to watch the furry fun.

The good St. Francis, walking by your side,

ls grieved to see such limpness in the breeze.

A bright battalion, slaughtered for your
pride—

Must babies die to save you from a sneeze?

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 200

Song Sparrow
May Allread Baker

Sate sheltered in the leafy, hazel thicket
He sings, each morn, his heart away to me;
And in the solemn hush of early twilight

I hear, again, his bed-time melody.

How shall I find words eloquent and moving

To tell, in verse, the beauty of his lay?

As clean and pure as vesper bells at
twilight, -,

As sweet and vernal as the merry May.

{As golden as the forest aisles, sun-dappled,

'As crystal clear as tern-fringed mountain
streams.

Oh, only God could give you this, sweet
smger— .

The song that poets weave into their
dreams!

Nature’s Living Barometers

E.R.YARHAM

N England no longer can we listen to i

the BBC. giving out the weather re-

port for the neXt 24 hours, or read it in

the press. All forecasts are forbidden,
but this ban has its recompenses.
Instead we turn to Nature’s living
:barometers, and by now a good many
0f us are as expert as the ﬁsherman and
the ploughman in reading the face of the
sky, and in interpreting the actions of
animals, birds, and even insects. For

theyare. among the most reliable, of all

weather prophets.

Country folk all over Britain~ swear
by that intelligent bird, the rook- When
rooks go on foraging expeditions a long
way from their rookery, it isan indica-
tion that the weather will be ﬁne. If
they feed close to the trees, Wet and
stormy weather is about. These theories
are ﬁrmly believed in and, being based
on long observation, they undoubtedly
contain a lot of truth. '

In summer the rooks will sometimes
congregate before sunset on the fallows
and will remain motionless till it is dark.
They are “saying their prayers,” and
next day is certain to be ﬁne. Cock
pheasants are unsettled when stormy
weather is about and they have a mar-
velously keen sense of hearing, calling
when they hear thunder in the distance.
They are unexcelled as air raid alarms
in the country, giving warning of the
approach of planes. Owls are excellent
weather forecasters, too. A wood owl
calling frequently at night always fore—
tells rain.

Gulls come inland on the approach of
rough weather. They know when a cold
spell is about to break up, and when
they go back to the cliffs a change for
the better is to be looked for. It is easy
to tell when cold weather is on the way
to the British Islands, in autumn, for

’OUR DUMB ANIMALS

the redwings come in hosts from N ortl -
ern Europe. There is an old saying that
frosts follow hard on these birds.

Domestic animals retain much of this
weather sense. Before wild weather cats
are quiet, and old country folk declare
that if the family cat sleeps with its
back to the ﬁre and the back of its head
to the ground, it is time to look out for
snow.

When pigs race about with straws in
their mouths they can “see the wind.”
Donkeys bray, cattle butt each other and
dogs howl before wild weather. In sum-
mer a sure indication of ﬁne weather is
the sight of butterﬂies resting on the
heads of grasses and ﬂowers. If rain
is about they will hide themselves away.
In winter in the woods the squirrels will
come out when a spell of mild weather is
due. If spiders are inactive it is a sign
of rain. During a wet period, if they
seem unusually busy ﬁne weather is sure
to follow soon. On the mountain sides
in winter, when snow is imminent the
sheep will go of their own accord into
the valleys, avoiding hollows where the
snow would be likely to accumulate.

 

 

Teach Kindness

to Animals

by using these outstanding silent
FILMS

THE BELL OF ATRI

illustrating Longfellow’s poem
of the same title,

and

IN BEHALF OF ANIMALS

showing the practical work of the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A., the
Angell Animal Hospital and the
Rest Farm for Horses. For terms
of rental or sale

Address
Secretary, 180 Longwood Ave.
Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 

M

Oct. 1941

Liberal Annuity Rates

Both of our Societies offer you semi.
annually during your lifetime a fixed income
on the sum given. Depending upon your age
at the time of the gift, the rate varies from
4V2 % to 9% per annum, beginning at age 45.

ADVANTAGES

No coupons to clip, no papers to sign and
mail. You simply receive your checks at
stated intervals—that’s all there is to it.

Annuity agreements are frequently used to
provide for the future years of a loved one
whose present income is temporary or in-
sufficient.

It is no experiment,
There is no anxiety,
No fluctuations in rate of income,
No waste of your estate by a will
contest.

* it 9(— * *

Persons of comparatively small means
may, by this arrangement, obtain a better
income for life than could be had with equal
safety by the usual methods of investment,
while avoiding the risks and waste of a will
contest and ultimately promoting the cause
of unfortunate animals.

The management of our invested funds is
a guarantee of the security of these Life
Annuities.

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A., or the
American Humane Education Society, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston, will be glad to
furnish further details.

 

 

Our Dumb-Animals

Published on the first Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood.
Massachusetts. Boston Office; 180 Longwood Av-
enue. Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS

One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of

the world.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the office en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN
THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Active Life $10000

Associate Life 50 00

Sustaining Life 20 00 Annual

Children’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT

A. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston.

$1000
500
100

Active Annual
Associate Annual

Manuscripts should be addressed to the editor, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 

TO OUR FRIENDS
In making your will,

our Society is “The Massachusetts Society

Any bequest especially intended for the

chusetts Society for the
of the Angell Memorial

FORM OF BEQUEST
I give to The

 

 

 

of .......... dollars, (or, if other property,

 

 

 

 

kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of

Cruelty to Animals"; that it is the second incorporated (March, 1868)
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country, and
that it has no connection with any other similar Society.

Memorial Animal Hospital, should, nevertheless,
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals “for the use
. Animal Hospital,” as the Hospital is not incor-
porated but is the property of that Society and is conducted by it.

. Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals (or to The American Humane Education Society), the sum

for the Prevention of

benefit of the Angell
be made to the Massa-

 

 

describe the property).

 

 

 




 

N 0?). .1941

One Thing I Loved
Judy Van . der. Veer

Because death came and took away

One thing‘ I loved so well,

The colts could run, the calves could play,
The little goat could shake its bell,

And I would never smile.

I could not laugh at running feet
When hoofs I loved were still,

Or think the songs of birds were sweet,
Or wander happy on the hill,

Or dream a little while.

There was no comfort anywhere,
Although the summer sun was bright
Myself was filled with such despair
It might as well be always night,

I felt so tired and cold.

And while I stared unhappily

Ancl thought with sadness of the past
A new lamb frolicked up to me,

I found I had to smile at last—

It was so small and bold.

And somehow I felt less forlorn

And saw the sun was bright that day,
I said it does not do to mourn
Because some things must go away.
Some things stay here.

And as I watched the living herd

Of colts and calves and frisking goats,
And listened to a canyon bird

Try out the scale with mellow notes,
The one I lost drew near . . .

Grasshopper Destrovers
WILLIS MEHANNA

JIN one region of South Dakota, the

past summer, millions of grasshoppers
were destroying the crops. An organiza-
tion of business men and farmers got
together and shipped in several thousand
sea gulls.

The gulls were turned loose on the
countryside and before very long the
grasshoppers were a thing of the past,
for the summer at least. After their
work was done the gulls are supposed to
have found their way back to the seaside,
instinct guiding them. Just what was the
cost of getting the gulls and shipping
them to Dakota is not known, but it is
admitted to be only a fraction of what
the cost and trouble of buying grass-
hopper poison and spreading it would
have been. The gulls were much safer
and more satisfactory than poison mash.
Dakota farmers are mighty glad that
sea gulls are not game birds. Farmers
everywhere are becoming awake to the
value of birds as insect destroyers. It is
gratifying to know that the sea gull,
celebrated in poetry and literature, is a
useful bird.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 207

“Lucky Bossie”
SIGMUND SAMET‘H, M.A.

tributes nine lives to

the domestic cat—not
to the cow, but “Lucky
Bossie,” whose portrait ap-
pears on this page has shown
all the tenacity to earthly
existence which the cat is
supposed to demonstrate.

Four years ago when this
pure-blooded Guernsey dairy
calf was born on the farm of
Edward Weigs near Bluff-
ton, S. C., serious cattle dis—
eases were ravaging whole
herds in t h e Southeast.
With the help of the local
veterinarian, Bossie, then
simply a number in the herd,
k—567, ﬁnally pulled through.

“That’s a game little calf,”
the doctor said. “Any other
one might not have pulled
through.”

Succeeding years brought
Bossie other narrow escapes
from death and earned her
the cognomen of “Lucky
Bossie.” Once it was a ﬁre
in the hayloft above the
barn. Milling cattle fought
to evade the choking fumes while the
ﬁremen smashed an emergency exit for
the stock through which they ﬁnally
were led to safety.

A few months later a careless hired
man left a fence gate open and several
cows entered an orchard and feasted
themselves to the bloating point on un-
der—ripe peaches. Bossie was one of the
erring troop and only by the ﬂick of a
tail did she ever regain her health and
normal plump ﬁgure.

The climax of Lucky Bossie’s hair-
raising escapes from disaster occurred
last year during the catastrophic August
hurricane which swept the Carolina
coast before it blew on to New England
bearing its toll of destruction.

The morning of the storm, the Meigs
family heard over the radio Coast Guard
warnings of the tidal wave which was
sure to follow. Their pasture ran right
down to tidewater on the brackish Col-
leton River, and so they decided to play
safe and pen the cattle in the barn which
was on high land. As the afternoon drew
on the sky darkened and the wind blew.
The tide, helped by a wind of gale in-
tensity piled up to an unprecedented
level. Its muddy waters swirled through
the Meigs living room. Pets, chickens,
and the seven Meigs children clustered
bedraggled in the farmhouse kitchen in
the care of an elder sister. From the
barn came excited bellowing.

What had happened was this. The

EUROPEAN folklore at-

 

“LUCKY BOSSY,” PURE-BLOODED GUERNSEY

water never quite reached the barn, but
the wind had torn away one side of it
completely. Pinned under some of the
wreckage was a single cow. It was Lucky
Bossie. Fortunately the timbers had
kept most of the weight off the unhappy
animal and she was soon rescued to re-
sume her place as a champion milk pro-
ducer. But in the photograph, if you de-
tect a note of saddened wistfulness in
that sensitive Guernsey face, you’ll know
why. Lucky Bossie has faced death so
many times that those velvety eyes turn
inward on some secret which only an
inarticulate creature can know.

The natural food of skunks consists
mainly of grasshoppers, beetles, and
other insects. Their taste for fowl is
acquired by accident. They also occa-
sionally eat fruit, eggs, and small mam—
mals.

We know from a census of ancient
Greek tombstones that the average length
of life in those days was thirty years,
and by the same evidence it was no
longer in the sixteenth, seventeenth and
eighteenth centuries. With the rise of
modern medicine, the average life rose
rapidly to forty and beyond, reaching
ﬁfty-one at the beginning of the present
century. In 1920 it was 56%, in 1935 1t
was 61. The great advantage is largely
due to lowering of the death rate in the
early years. '

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Sept. 191,1

ceased breathing when I laid her out on
the hot dry sand. Here artiﬁcial respira-
tion was instantly applied, the support-
ive treatment of blankets and heating
pads given, and the inhalator with its
life—giving 93~7 combination of oxygen
and 002 brought into play. In less than
two minutes the young woman was
breathing and shortly after, realizing
all that had happened, was pleading
frantically for us to save the dog. Great—
ly as I love animals I never forget that
I am a professional rescue ofﬁcer and
that the saving of human life must
supercede every other activity when
peril threatens, and in this case with an
apparently dead woman on my hands I
had forgotten the unfortunate bulldog
completely. Turning, I ﬂung an order
over my shoulder for one of my volun-
teer members of the beach patrol to
bring in the dog. He winked at me sug-
gestively and pointed just behind me.
There lay Bobo and a quick examination
convinced me that he was very, very
dead.

But spurred by the frantic pleading
of the heartbroken girl, I started ad-
ministering artiﬁcial respiration to the
animal, using a speed of some 120 res-
pirations per minute or roughly ten
times the speed utilized for human pa-
tients. I did not kneel astride of him as
in ordinary practice but merely left him
on his side and cupped his little body
between my hands, applying my squeeze
at the base of the lungs. Twelve minutes
later little Bobo gasped, coughed weakly,
and settled down to faint rapid breath-
ing. The pulse was practically uncount—
able at this time and very weak but I
estimated it at about 200 beats per min-
ute. Deciding to treat for traumatic
shock according to common usage with
human patients, I lifted him gently onto
a woolen blanket, covered him warmly,
swung him around so that the head was
downhill, gave an inhalant stimulant of
aromatic spirits of ammonia and let him
rest for two hours under strict super-
vision while I went back to my classes.

He was then taken home where he was
much beneﬁted by means of an enema.
After a long night’s sleep, disturbed by
who knows what scary little doggy
dreams, poor chastened Bobo returned to
the bustling world once more. But for
days thereafter this little dog swam not.
He sat on the warm sand and gazed
thoughtfully if not reproachfully upon
the mocking waters which had betrayed
him.

Oh, how skillful grows the hand
That obeyeth love's command!

It is the heart, and not the brain,
That to the highest doth attain,
And he who followeth love’s behest
Far excelleth all the rest!

Longfellow

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

PRIZE-WINNING PHOTOGRAPH (See page 164)

Page 169'

14. What fa-
m o u s F r e n c h
churchman and
statesman of the
16th century kept
a family of kittens
in his cabinet to
divert h i m from
the cares of state?

15. What is the
difference between
a cat 0’ nine tails
and a Manx cat?

16. W h e n is a
black cat lucky?

17. Finish this
quotation, “A
may look at a ——.’

18. The reason
some people’s vio—
lin playing sounds
like a tomcat on
the back fenc e
may be because
the strings are

 

,

 

A Fireside Cat Chat

RUTH STEWART SCHENLEY

T has been said that a dog will attach

himself to almost anyone, but a cat will
befriend only a man of character.
Whether’you believe this or not, whether
cats are your “pet” weakness or your
phobia, this quiz will test your reading
knowledge of the feline world. Give
yourself ﬁve points for each question.
Seventy is a good score.

1. What Shakespearean character
spoke of the beast as, “the harmless,
necessary cat?”

2. If a man grins like a Cheshire cat,
whom does he resemble?

3. Give two islands for which mem~
bers of the cat family are named.

4. Who was the cat goddess of ancient
Egypt? Where was her temple?

5. Do cats steal children’s breath?

6. What do the following look like?
(a) A tabby cat. (b) A tortoise-shell cat.
(c) A Siamese cat.

7. Name six other well-known mem—
bers of the cat family.

8. What is the name of Kipling’s fa-
mous cat story?

9. If you are unusually fond of cats,
what are you?

10. These are named for parts of a
cat’s anatomy. What are they? (a) A
mineral. (b) A plant. (0) A dupe.

11. What is a pussy willow’s kitten
called?

12. Where would you ﬁnd a catwalk—~
on the back fence, in a dirigible, or at
the circus?

13. One of the seven wonders of the
world has a human face and a cat’s body.
What is it?

made of — what?
See answers on
page 180.

War on Nature

HEN a European war brings suf-

fering, pain and death to many
thousands of people the hearts of all
civilized nations go out to them, For
most wars are entirely unnecessary and
are caused by man’s desire to conquer
his neighbor. Homes are destroyed,
families are separated and personal
treasures destroyed or lost forever. Yet,
this war will someday come to a close
and peace will again come to the suffer-
ing people of Europe.

But there is another war that con—
tinues each year in our own country
without ever any sign of an armistice
for the suffering. This war is fought
each fall when our states allow hunters
to enter the forests with rifles and even
bows and arrows to bring suffering,
pain and death to many thousands of our
wild animal life. Our war however is
fought against helpless dumb animals
who have no way to ﬁght back against
their enemies, the hunters. Instead, they
fall before the rifle bullet or the arrow,
a sacriﬁce to what hunters will tell you
is just another “sport.” Not only do
these hunters kill animal life, but they
are often the cause of serious forest
ﬁres that lay waste valuable heavily
wooded tracts. In these forest fires
many additional hundreds of animals are
trapped in the ﬁery inferno and suffer
a painful death. Let us hope that some
day laws will be passed to prevent this
needless killing and that peace will again
come to our wild animal life which has
too long been unmercifully persecuted.

JOSEPH CROUGHWELL

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Page 26

And “Yimmy” Can’t Tell
s U E M a c c o W A N

I, Yimmy, where you been?” The

sailor greeted the dark object that
had dashed down the gangplank and
jumped into his arms. Purring but non-
committal, the object dropped to the deck
and lay down while the seaman coiled
rope and related his story.

“Last June when we were about to
leave New York, a black cat came down
the gangplank. ‘You’re good luck at sea,’
said a steward, and asked if he were sail-
ing for Liverpool. The cat purred. ‘All
right, Liverpool it is, and your name’s
Yimmy.’ J’s were Y’s to this steward—
and off we sailed.

“Yimmy lay in the sun or strolled the
deck during the trip, while we bet on
his behavior upon arrival in foreign
ports. I bet that Yimmy would take
shore leave, but how I was to be sur-
prised. The boat docked. The cat slept.
‘Aren’t you seeing Liverpool?’ I asked.
The nose twitched. ‘All right, I lose ﬁve
dollars,’ I said and hoped for sympathy.
Yimmy slept peacefully on, and I lost
the bet.

“We sailed to Manchester that night,
returned to Liverpool next day, and
crossed to Belfast. Yimmy showed no in-
terest in foreign lands.

“We returned to New York and in the
busy docking had forgotten Yimmy. But
the gangplank had scarcely been shoved
into place when down he dashed and dis—
appeared. I felt sad. Yimmy had been
such good company, so intelligent and
affectionate.

“Five days later we were again ready
to leave. The ‘All ashore’ whistle had
blown and I’ll be—down the plank dashed
Yimmy. He took‘up life on board just
where he had left off—deck walking, sun
bathing, and the usual routine.

“Ten days on sea and then Liverpool.
The last sailor called, ‘Aren’t you seeing
England, Yimmy?’ Yimmy stretched,
purred, and slept on. Likewise Manches-
ter and Belfast were passed up, but the
cat purred ‘Hello’ to each returning
sailor.

“Again we docked in New York and
Yimmy vanished from sight. I wasn’t sad
this time, as I felt sure he would be back.
And that’s just what happened. The ‘All
ashore’ sounded and down the plank came
Yimmy.

“Well, you saw him today—the third
trip. Where does he spend New York
leave? Why doesn’t he land in England
or Ireland? I don’t know and Yimmy
can’t tell.”

The sailor stroked the cat’s back.
“You’re one ﬁne cat, ain’t you, Yimmy,
but why won’t you visit England? Why
won’t you take a look at Ireland?” There
was only a purr for reply.

I returned to my cabin puzzled, too,
by the feline’s strange behavior.

OUR DUMB ANIllIALS

International Commuters
w. J. BANKS, B.A.

O passports, visas or custom decla-
rations are required when some six
hundred denizens of the northwest cross
the international border at least twice
yearly. These happy possessors of the
freedom of two nations are wapiti,
dwellers in the protected area of the Wa-
terton—Glacier International Peace Park.
Each autumn the elk herds cross from
Glacier Park in Montana to Waterton
Lakes Park in Alberta. And in the spring
they wander southward again, unham—
pered by the necessity of stopping at the
immigration ofﬁce. Thus the open border
between the two nations is no barrier to
the migrations of the wild life of the
frontier regions, another proof of the
goodwill between the U. S. :and Canada.
The movement of the elk northward in
the fall and southward in the spring is a
reversal of the normal wild life migra-
tions on the North American continent.
The explanation is found in the topog-
raphy of the region. Glacier Park is
largely mountainous while a part of the
Waterton Lakes reserve may be described
as foothill country. Thus the wapiti move
northward across the boundary as they
seek the lower levels for winter pastur-
age, and return to the high valleys for
summer grazing.

It is good to see these elk herds pros-
pering in freedom and safety. For it is
not many years ago when the noble
species seemed headed for extinction.
Settlement of the prairies and foothill
lands was responsible for this sorry
state of things. But conservation meas—
ures were taken in time by United States
and Canadian authorities and the wapiti
have found ideal homes in the great
national parks.

F ab. 1 91;]
“My Gray Mule Is in Trouble”

Emmett Leo Downs

My gray mule is in trouble,
And he mopes each sunny day;
He wants to be worked double,
Wants to work instead of play.
He gapes in the direction
Of a combine which he hears;
Then waves with slow reflection
His jagged, corn-stalk ears.

He follows me through wheat-fields;
His long ears wave and flop
As if to say, “Those neat fields
Have combines reap their crop."
His dark hoofs snap bright stubble
As he mooches in and out.
My gray mule is in trouble,
And he follows me about.

The Cat, and the Canaries

When the judges arrived for the
Modesto (California) Canary Club show,
last December, they found 150 birds ar-
ranged in small cages on low tables in the
lobby of the Covell Hotel. To their aston-
ishment they saw a beautiful cat moving
with leisurely grace up and down and
back and forth, on a tour of inspection.

“Oh, dear me!” exclaimed one of the
judges, “Isn’t it dangerous to have that
cat in here with all these birds?”

“Not at all,” smiled the president of
the club, “ ‘Vanilla’ has lived all her nine
years right here in the hotel and has
never disturbed. one of Mr. Covell’s birds,
and I know will not disturb ours. Mr.
Covell says Vanilla has never been given
raw meat to eat and has no savage
desires regarding birds.”

And for three days and nights Vanilla
and 150 canaries lived together in per-
fect friendliness and harmony.

 

.v

PLAYFUL PERSIANS TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THE ABSENCE OF THEIR
OWNER, MRS. HAROLD MAGUIRE, BATH, N. Y.

 




July, 1941

A Plea for a Distinguished
Austrian

MR. RUDOLPH DONATH, born in
Vienna in 1898, once vice-president
of the Vienna League for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals and active in S.
P. C. A. work, son of an officer in the
Austrian Imperial Army, received a de-
gree from the Law School of the Univer-
sity of Vienna, later becoming a member
of a law ﬁrm, seeking new legislation for
animals, now for two years assisting as
a voluntary helper in the so-called Gilde-
meester-Action, which is the most suc-
cessful committee for the aid of Chris-
tians compelled to emigrate from their
home country, is seeking to reach the
United States.

Mr. Donath’s maintenance here has
been guaranteed by friends. The sum of
$350 is needed to bring him and his
wife (they have no children) to Ameri-
ca, and $234 is yet to be raised.

Do you want to contribute toward
this? If so, we shall be glad to receive,
and transmit to the proper authorities,
the gift.

An Excellent Idea

A generous friend of the Society, who
for years has been subscribing for copies
of our magazine to be sent to the schools
in his city, writes, “I shall be glad to
see in Our Dumb Animals the suggestion
that people contribute toward the send-
ing of copies of the magazine to the
schools in their towns or cities. Perhaps
that will awaken others to do what I
have been doing.”

He continues, “I believe that your
magazine, placed in the hands of young
children, has a lasting inﬂuence in mak-
ing them kind to animals and also just
and kind to their human fellows. The
magazine then would not only go to the
children but it would ultimately reach the
families who cannot afford to subscribe.”

We hope some of our readers will like

 

A PAUSE FOR A POSE

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

to follow this suggestion.
Of course, seven to nine
thousand copies of the
magazine do annually go
to schools where this num-
ber of Bands of Mercy are
formed. This suggestion
would certainly apply to
cities and towns not
reached by any of our
workers.

Among the great hu—
mane societies of the
World is the Scottish So-
ciety for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals. Its
101st Annual Report has
just reached us. Attention
in the Report is called to
the fact that one of the
tragedies associated with
modern sea warfare is the
widespread destruction of
bird life due to the enor—
mous quantities of oil from
sunken vessels which ﬁnd
their way to pollute the
Scottish coast.

Multitudes of these
birds drift ashore to linger
often for days in a dying
condition. Inspectors of the
Society, so far as possible,
put them out of their suf—
fering, where their feath—
ers are so heavily laden
with oil that there is no
hope for them.

Humane education is the
foundation of all reform.
If it were universally

Page 133

 

AT TEDDINGTON ANIMAL CLINIC, LONDON

 

adopted, poverty, crime
and war would be greatly diminished,
and in time the vast amount of money
expended to sustain armies, prisons, etc.,
would be saved for the beneﬁt of the
people.

Register your disapproval of the cruel-
ty behind trained animal performances
by refusing to be a patron and an eye-
witness of them.

Backdoor Caller

Jessie Merle Franklin

The gentleman who calls on me

At mealtime every day,

Is dressed in orange coat and pants;
He hasn’t much to say;

He's never told me where he lives
Or of his kith and kin,

And when he’s finished with his meal
He goes right out again.

I guess I should denounce him as

A shameless, poaching cat,

But somehow he's too dignified
And mannerly for that!

Our Aid to Britain

N a letter addressed to the Massachu-

setts S. P. C. A., Mr. Charles R.
Johns, secretary of the National Canine
Defence League, London, writes:

“The above photograph was taken out—
side the Teddington clinic. Like all other
areas where the League has clinics, there
is much damage to the homes of the
people from aerial attack.

“The clinics have proved themselves
harbors of refuge for dogs, cats and
birds. These are treated when slightly
hurt and destroyed when seriously in-
jured. Many are brought (as in the pic-
ture) for temporary housing whilst their
owners are seeking new homes when
their old ones have been rendered un—
tenable.” The League is striving its ut-
most to avoid curtailing this practical
and ameliorative section of its activities.

“You may be sure that we deeply ap—
preciate the valuable monetary help you
have given us and that it is helping to
ensure that the work proceeds.”

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

M ay, 1 94.1

The Wayside Rest
F. B. M. Collier

Gold stars twinkled in the pa"
Of velvet spread at evening fall
Whilst frost still whipped the stinging air
Though snow had vanished everywhere.

Then joyous through the portent night

I heard the honk of geese in flight.
Quite low they came, with raucous cry
And crashing sound, alighting nigh;

I sensed they sought a respite here
Within my sapling, grass-decked mere.

'Twas here last year the wild rice grew

In luscious ears, for well I knew

The sheltering scrub would nurse the seeds
I broadcast thick mid swamp-mint weeds
’To coax these shrewd guests from the sky

I planned a well-copsed food supply.

And now my blood runs warm and sweet;
This leisured, fragrant marsh retreat
Becomes a traveler’s wayside rest

For wild goose wing and brooding breast.

Bird of Live Colors

WILLIS MEHANNA

The rose—breasted grosbeak will cause
anyone to pause for a second and third
look. I have noticed it to be in evidence
in small, thick timber patches on low
ground near creeks and ponds in unfre-
quented places. Its song is melodious and
not unlike that of robins and orioles. It
often sings after nightfall. It is a beau-
tiful bird of fresh, live celors and about
eight inches long. Its breast is red, ex-
tending under the wings. It is black—
backed, has white tail quills, white bars
on wings and thick bill. The female is
less brilliantly colored, has no red and
has a brown bill.

It comes north in May and nests from
middle states northward. Its range is the
eastern United States and Canada and it
winters in Cuba, Central America and
South America. The grosbeak builds its
nest in thick bushes, lays four or ﬁve
yellowish-white eggs marked with dark
spots.

Despite its shyness it is known to be
a great destroyer of potato-bugs, beetles,
ﬂies and other insects. It is quite fas-
tidious in regard to locality. It likes
thick, brushy timber near water. Be-
cause of its beauty, song and usefulness
farmers are anxious for its protection
and sometimes call it the potato-bug
bird. It will frequent farmstead prem-
ises if treated right. It goes South in
September.

A bird may have two or more distinct
songs. Some commonly have three, while
no two individual birds of certain species
ever sing precisely the same tune. Occa-
sionally a very gifted individual will
eclipse the performance of all rivals.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 8’7

“Now It’s Eagles”
MRS. C. ROBERT D‘eARMAS

ILADY shudders at
M the tales of pioneer

days when Indians
ravaged cabins and snatched
mothers from nursing babies
only to scalp the women and
leave the babies to die. These
Indians paraded in grandeur,
heedless of the butchery
in their wake. That was sav-
agery. But, what of today?
Thousands of the world’s most
glorious creatures have been
wrested from their havens
and their place in the sky and
sun because milady thinks a
plume would give her dash.
Eagles, swan, condors, peli-
cans and albatrosses have
been pounced upon by feather
marauders during the sacred
season of their mating. Their
bodies are mutilated and their
babies left to die because at
this time nature has enhanced
the charm of their plumage,
adding lustre and beauty. In
1900, out of an estimated
3,000,000 egrets, a mere hand-
ful remained after trade had
ﬁlled Fashion’s coffers.

At the present time, the
whim is for the feathers of
bald and golden eagles. Agents
call for eagle feathers in “any
quantity.” Reading this, I

 

YOUNG BALD EAGLE IN TAMPA BAY

 

thought of a young bald eagle

I saw last summer, at Whiskey Stump
in Tampa Bay. He was brought to this
rookery, wounded and through the kind-
ness of the warden he recovered. The is-
land was like an enchanted place profuse
with feathered beauty. The Louisiana
heron, cormorants, laughing gull, Ameri—
can egrets and blue heron soared and
dipped in and out of sight. Pelicans, s01-
emn and imperturbable sat like “supreme
judges” on a cluster of mangrove trees.
Amidst such variety of color and kind
roamed this eagle, like a denizen of the
isle. The warden coaxed him onto a limb
so that I could get a picture of him. Aus-
tere and critical as he sat for his por-
trait, he ﬁxed us with his eye and then
forgot us. There was no benevolent acqui-
escence in his mien as he held his head
aloft. We dubbed him “Napoleon” a con-
queror in exile. Now, whenever I see an
eagle feather used for adornment, I won-
der what proud spirit was broken to
salve that vanity.

Sea gulls in England often let out
their shrill cries before the air-raid
warnings are sounded. It seems that they
are able to detect approaching planes
quicker than anti-aircraft observers.

Bird Behavior
ELLA WILSON HILL

E were much amused at the small

birds that chose to let our big
white Serbian dog play host to them
during the summers while we lived in
Valdez, Alaska. We had raised “Ace,”
the dog, in Fairbanks where the ther—
mometer dropped to sixty below zero in
winter. In Valdez about the lowest temp-
erature was around eight minus, so
nature kept stripping Ace of the inner
coat of soft white wool that he grew in
the intense cold of Fairbanks.

Bright—eyed birds found out about the
wool almost before we did. At ﬁrst there
was an animated frieze of robins, wrens,
and other small birds on the chicken-
wire fenced-in half acre that was Ace’s,
but they soon became bold and entered
the yard to pick up the soft white lining
for their nests. But if Ace so much as
cocked an ear they would ﬂy for the
safety of the fence.

Much to our surprise, however, Ace
made friends with the birds. They be-
came so fearless that they would light on
his back to pick off the soft wool. Year
after year their number increased.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

Page 58

Deceased Friends

Who Remembered Our Societies in
Their Wills
The following left bequests to the
Massachusetts Society for the Preven—
tion of Cruelty to Animals or to the
American Humane Education Society in
1940:

Addison Allen, Yonkers, N. Y.
Fanny C. Bowen, Fall River
James W. Bowen, Boston

Eugenia Staﬁord Brown, Newton
George W. Brown, Newton
William P. Buckley, Holyoke

Dr. Ralph Carleton, Springﬁeld
Eva M. Carter, Lawrence, Kansas
Ella A. Clark, Norwood

Mary Ida Converse, Boston

Julia E. Cram, Brookline

Ada K. Cummings, Malden

Zira R. Grout, Brookline

Mrs. W. B. Jackson, Marion, Va.
Helen L. Jones, Barnstable
Gertrude H. Lakin, Boston

Grace E. Maynard, Worcester

Ida M. Mills, Newton

Christine W. Taylor Porter, Auburndale
Carrie P. Reid, Boston

Leonard H. Rhodes, Brookline
Harriet E. Rice, Framingham
Miss Charlotte M. Robbins, Weston
Mrs. M. L. Shortridge, Indianapolis, Ind.
Rebecca Smith, Edgartown
Nathaniel W. Starbird, Malden
Louise A. Stearns, Leominster
Ethel Louise Thayer, Boston
Emma F. Tukey, Bristol, N. H.
Elizabeth A. Warren, Boston
Miss Lizzie L. Whitman, Weymouth
Edward S. Wood, Bourne

 

 

Compliments of
GALLUP and HADLEY

Attorneys and Counsellors-at-Law

DANA T. GALLUP 6 BEACON ST.,
EDWIN W. HADLEY BOSTON, MASS.

 

 

 

 

NEW ENGLAND ANTI—GAMBLING
ASSOCIATION. INC.
6 BEACON ST.. BOSTON. MASS.

“We compliment the M. S. P. C. A. on its
noble Work to prevent cruelty to racing
animals.”

EDWIN W. HADLEY, President

"Ml SKIN“; BlEMISHEI"

.Rﬂ/A 5L5“7W//V5' ”BROUGHT RELIEF
CUTICURA soothes and helps relieve black-
heads, also pimples and other externally
caused 1rr1tat1ons Buy atyour druggist’ stoday.

 

 

 

 

 

 

CUTICURA SOAP& OINTMENT ‘1‘

 

 

 

Since 1832

1. s. WATERMAN & sons, Inc.
Huhertakera

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE

City and out-of-town service

 

 

 

 

 

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

M ar. 19.4]

Humane literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

for Humane Sunday, April 20,1941
and Be Kind to Animals Week, April 21—26

For sale by the American Humane Education Society and the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

Our Dumb Animals, 1940, bound volume $1.00
Our Dumb Animals, 1936, 19137; and 1939‘

bound volume, each .................. .75
Colored Posters, 17 X 28? inches, attrac—

tive pictures and verses, six in set 1.00

Colored Posters, 17 X 22 inches, eight in
the set ................ 5 cts. each; eight for 35 cts.
Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 61/8 x 3% $0.50 per 100

About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth ........... 50 cts.
The Horse—Treatment of Sores, etc ..$0l.60 per 100
Humane Education Leaflet, N0. 5 ........ .50 “ “
The Horse’s Prayer .................... .30 “ “
How to Treat a Horse .................. .50 “ “
The Bell of Atri, poem by L0ngfellow 50 “ “
About the Dog
Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 ........ small,50‘cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits, D-r. Schneider Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post—card—$1.00 per 100

The Dog—Its care in Health and Disease .60 “ “
Feeding the Dog and the Cat, Dr.

Schneider ............................. 2.00 “ “
Important Advice on Feeding the Dog

and the Cat — A Supplement by Dr.

Rudolph H. Schneider ................ 1.00 “ "
Humane Education Leaflets, Nos. 3, and 4.50 “ “
What the Chained Dog Says ............ .50 “ “
The Story Of Barry ..................... .30 “ "
“Don” and His Boy Scout Friends, J. P.

Lyons ................................. .50 “ "
Road Accidents to Dogs, 4 pp. ......... Free
Boots Day, play, for two bOys and three

girls ..................... 3 cts. each, five for 10 cts.

About the Bird
The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus. ........ cloth, $0.45
Trial Of the Birds, play, 3 cts. ea.; 12 for

25 cts. ................................ $2.00 per 100
Humane Education Leaflets, NOS. 1 and 2 .50 “ “
How the Birds Help the Farmer ........ .50 “ “
The Air-Gun and the Birds ............. .50 “ "
The Care Of Caged Canaries ........... .30 “ "

About the Cat

The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease. $0.60 per 100

The Cat in Literature ................. .50 ‘
DO Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ...... .50 “ "
Mollie Whitefoot’s Vacation ............ .50 “ “
“The Beggar C'at,” post-card, 6 cts. doz. 50 “ "

About Other Animals

The Strike at Shane’s cloth, 3O cts . paper,7cts.
For I’ity’s Sake ....................... paper, 5 cts.
The Great Cruelty Again, Dr. Rowley.. Free

First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp.$1.00 per 100
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. .50 “ “

HOW to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. 1.00 “
Humane Education Leaflet, NO. 6, Animals .50 “ “
\Vays Of Kindness ...................... .50 “ "
Humane Education Leaflet, NO. 7, Farm

Animals ............................... .50 ‘ '
A \Yise Fish ............................ .50' “ ‘
Care Of Rabbits ......................... .30 “ "
Hints on the Care of Cows ............ .50 “ ‘
Rules for the Care of Poultry .......... .60 “ ‘
Directions for the Care of Swine ...... 1.00 “ “
Professor Frog’s Lecture, 8 pp. ........ .75 “ "
“'hy the Toad is SO Useful ............ .3 “ "
Jewish and Gentile Methods of Slaugh—

tering, illus. .................. each, 15 cts.
Yivisection—The Opinions of Famous

People, illus. ..................... each, 20 cts.

The Jack London Club

Michael Brotlher of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
What is the Jack London Club .......... $0.30 per 100
Foreword from “Michael Brother Of Jerry” .30 “ “
Films, Fakes and Facts, Helen T'revelyan

4 pp.
DO Wild Animals Prefer Captivity? Helen

Trevelyan, 4 pp. ......................
Trained Animals —— Cruelty Disguised,

Helen Trevelyan, 4 pp.

Humane Education

The Animal or the Child, Dr. Rowley... Free
Humane Education, An Activity of the

National Congress of Parents and

Teachers, by Dr. Francis H. Rowley
The Relation of the Home to Character

Formation, Dr. Francis H. Rowley
Humane Education and Spiritual Values,

Dr. Rowley ...........................
For Parents and Teachers, Plan of Work
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ..........
The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools
................. 12 cents each; ten for $1.00
and Kindness for Our Animal

Friends, 32 pp., paper covers, many

illus. .................. 10 cts. each; twelve for $1.00
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-

cation, 32 ppv. ........................ each. 10 cts.
An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.

Gilbert, 48 pp. For first and second

grades ................................ each 10 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ........ each 25 cts.
The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

Rowley ............................... cloth, 35 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use) Sarah J. Eddy .......... cloth, $1.00
The B—K—T—A—Club, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 250.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,”

Free
Free
Free

Free
Free

play ........................ 3 cts. each; ten for 250.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play ......

3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.

Humane Sunday ..................... 10. each

I’ll Never Hunt Again, play 3 cts. each; five for 10‘ cts.

The Best Gift, play ........ 2 cts. each; Six for 10 cts.

Humane Exercises ...................... $1.50 per 100

Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.

Rowley, Short radio address, 2cts. each; .75 “ “
Humane Education, What to Teach and

How to Teach It ...................... .50 “ “
Outlines Of Study in Humane Education 1.50 “ “
'larly Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty .50 “ "
A Talk with the Teacher ................ .50 “ “
Our Love for Animals, 3. short radio

address ..................... 2 cts. each; 100 “ "
Bookmark, with “A Humane Prayer” .. 1.00 “ "
A Festival of Tender Mercies .......... .50 “ "
Need Of Humane Education Societies

and Methods of Forming Them ....... .50 “ "
How to Organize a Society for the

Protection of Animals ................ .50 “ “
Incidents about Animals, by Geo. T.

Angell ................................ $1. 00 per 100

Twenty Years of Be Kind to Animals
Week, Guy Richardson . .3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.

Band of Mercy

“Be Kind to Animals Buttons,” three
styles—«Band of Mercy, Humane So—
ciety, or S. P. C. A. ................ $1.00 per 100

Buttons—white star on blue ground with

gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00 “ "
Badges, gold finish, large, 10 cts., small 5cts.
“Band Of Mercy” pennant ............ 35 cts
Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.

J. Eddy ............................... 50 cts.
Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words

only) ................................. $23. 00 per 100
Band Of Mercy Membership Card ...... .50 “ ‘
How to Form Bands of Mercy .......... .50 “ “

Does it Pay, Story of one Band Of Mercy .30 “ "

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

 




 

April, 191,1

Wild Geese Calling

H. Adding’ron

When he heard the brittle tinkle
Of the iingling Peter’s Pence
And audacious crows were cawing
ln raucous impudence;
When swarms of blackbirds chattered
Over sparse and scattered grain,
He waited for the wild geese
To travel south again.

Marion

Then he ran out to his doorway
Where he craned an eager head
As there came a mighty whirring
From the sprawling wings outspread,
With a wild triumphant chorus
Over russet wood and plain,
For “Honk! Honk!" the wild geese
Were going south again.

Always when the windy marshes
Played a shrilly mourntul tune,
And the ragged black clouds flying
Hid the pale and chilly moon,

Something in his heart responded
Something in his soul would strain
As it to join the wild geese
Flying south again!

Useful Barn Swallows

WALLACE OBAUGH

ARN swallows are friendly, useful,

and beautiful. They are fond of hu-
man company. While cultivating corn
last summer I was accompanied day after
day by a ﬂock of half a dozen. They ﬂew
about me in circles, cleaving the air with
strong sure wings, putting up an aero-
nautical performance that for speed, en-
durance, and agility was unrivaled.

Their desire for my company had a
practical motive. As we moved down the
rows of corn the team and I stirred up
clouds of insects which had been feeding
on the young blades. These the swallows
picked from the air with marvelous
facility. Seeing one, the bird would set
its rudder sharply, bank expertly, eat the
swift ﬂying creature in mid—air, and
resume its patrol—all in a fraction of a
second.

The number of pests thus destroyed is
uncountable. Swallows are like boys; al—
ways active, always hungry. The small
warm bodies move in the air all day long
at incredible speed. Their energy output
is tremendous, and it comes entirely
from insects. In the struggle of man
versus bug, the swallow is one of our
best allies. The destructive little wheat
ﬂy is one of its favorite tid-bits.

The barn swallow likes to build in
farm buildings, whence its name. Its
chosen nesting-place is a beam or shelf-
like board near the roof. The nest is a
hollow platform of mud, bedded snugly
with down. The eggs are white, with
little freckles.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 69

The Interesting Nuthatches
L . L. R E E D

Photograph by the Author

E are all familiar with the black—
Wcapped chickadee, that lively
little bird which spends both

winter and summer with us. Often in
ﬂocks of a score or more they will ﬂit
from tree to tree searching out worms
and insects which are their principal
food. The little chickadee is the most com-
mon boarder at almost any feeding table.
Because we are so well acquainted
with the chickadee, we often overlook
another of our feathered friends, who
is just as active and interesting, al-
though not quite so numerous, nor so
friendly. This is the nuthatch, and he
is a good bird to know, for he is one of
our most valuable birds because almost
all of his food is insects, insect eggs,
and insect larvae which he ﬁnds on the
trunks and branches of the trees. Among
the nuthatches there are two common
varieties; the white-breasted nuthatch,
seen most often in the deciduous or
hardwood forests; and the red-breasted
nuthatch most often found in coniferous
or evergreen forests. Either of these
nuthatches may be seen frolicking and
hunting food with a ﬂock of chickadees.
The chickadees and nuthatches seem to
like each other’s company and, what is
more, they are both known as upside-
down birds. They can come down a tree
head ﬁrst quite as easily as they can
go up. They will often be observed going
completely around a horizontal branch in
search of insects and larvae. The long

 

pointed bills of the nuthatches equip
them well for digging into the cracks
and crevices of tree bark for their food,
but it is not true, as some believe, that
the nuthatches can crack open hard-
shelled nuts; their bills are too weak for
this.

It is not hard to distinguish the nut-
hatches from the chickadees. All of them
have black crowns, but the chickadee
also has a black throat, which neither of
the nuthatches has. The red-breasted
nuthatch not only differs from the white-
breasted in the color of its breast, but
it also has a white stripe and a black
stripe, both of which start at the fore-
head and run back to the nape of the
neck. The white-breasted nuthatch does
not have these stripes.

These two nuthatches are native to the
eastern states and Canada. In other parts
there are species which differ slightly.
There is the Florida white-breasted nut-
hatch in the extreme southern states;
the slender-billed nuthatch on the Paciﬁc
coast; and the Rocky Mountain, or Nel-
son’s nuthatch in the western mountain
states.

Every bird lover should make the
acquaintance of one or more of the nut-
hatches. In observing them closely you
will note many interesting character—
istics. For instance, you will ﬁnd that

the nuthatches have the habit of hiding
food in the trees for future use, much
as the blue jay and Canada jay do.

 




 

M ar. 1941

OUR DUMB ANIZWALS

II

Page 55

The American Humane Education Society

EVER was Humane Education
Nmore needed than in the year 1940
after Christ. It is poor comfort
now to observe that had this kind of edu—
cation prevailed throughout the last two
decades of the twentieth century we
would be living in an entirely different
and happier world today. But it is grati-
fying to know that the Humane Societies
of this country are giving more and more
attention to this particular branch of the
work. Directors of Humane Education
are being appointed in numerous locali—
ties and even small Societies are begin-
ning to realize the importance of teach—
ing kindness to animals to children, for
the inﬂuence upon their own character
as well as upon the well—being of their
pets. We feel conﬁdent that the follow—
ing report, in many instances but a mere
summary of what has been done, will
convince the most skeptical that the
American Humane Education Society,
through its literature, its Bands of
Mercy, its lecturers in the ﬁeld, is mak—
ing a contribution to the well—being and
peace of the nation that cannot be meas-
ured by the mere statistics that we are
able to present. To have touched, how—
ever remotely, the better angels of half
a million people by the spoken word
is not the least of the year’s accomplish—
ments. When to this is added the circu—
lation of another half million pieces of
humane literature, including copies of
Our Dumb Animals, leaﬂets of all sizes,
cards, books, blotters and calendars, some
idea may be had of the far-reaching in-
ﬂuence of this one organization.
We give, ﬁrst, the reports of our twelve
ﬁeld workers, operating from Maine to
California.

Miss Gilbert in Maine and New York

Miss Gilbert represented the Society
for ﬁve months of the year, having vis—
ited eleven towns in New York and 22
cities and towns in Maine. She gave 358
talks in 200 schools and reported more
than 400 Bands of Mercy. She spoke be-
fore several adult groups and, in all,
reached 18,500 persons. She enjoyed
splendid co-operation from the Commis—
sioner of Education and the various
superintendents in Maine. She arranged
for window displays of humane posters
wherever possible.

Two Workers in Massachusetts

In Massachusetts Miss Maryott gave
145 Band of Mercy lectures in schools of
Chelsea, Newton, Boston, Arlington,
Acton, Taunton, Brockton, Newburyport
and Maynard, where she spoke before

24,222 pupils and adults. As a result, 629
new Bands were organized.

In addition to conducting the humane
press bureau, with. its list of 400 or more
names to whom the monthly releases are
mailed, Mrs. Clarke carries on a great
variety of activities, not least of which
are those relating to the Parent—Teacher
Association of which she is state chair-
man of spiritual, humane and character
education. She held exhibits of literature
at two state conventions—the Federation
of Women’s Clubs in Swampscott and
the three-day Parent-Teacher meeting at
Worcester. She organized branches of
the Massachusetts S. P. C. A. in Holyoke,
Nantucket and Edgartown; arranged for
a garden party and fashion show at Den-
nis; and had charge of the Hospitality
Day at Angell Animal Hospital in April.
Altogether she attended more than 100
club meetings, made 32 talks, judged 14
pet shows, gave six radio talks, visited
45 towns, and reached nearly 30,000
people. She sent out about 1,700 letters
and distributed 25,000 pieces of litera-
ture.

Successful Work in Georgia

In Georgia Mrs. Weathersbee gave 333
talks in 186 schools in 123 towns, which
involved nearly 10,000 miles of travel by
motor car. She reported 626 Bands of
Mercy, having reached more than 30,000
children, including those in vacation Bible
schools and camps. She secured more
than 17,000 Jack London Club pledges.
She spoke at many Parent-Teacher meet-
ings and before other adult audiences at
which the aggregate attendance exceeded
8,000. She instituted a humane education
program in connection with the recrea—
tion project of the WPA, and was re—
sponsible for outstanding Be Kind to
Animals Week activities, including par—
ticipation by schools, radios, press, and
movie houses throughout the state.
Through the Parent-Teacher Association
she released a “Plan of Work for
1940-42” including suggested activities
for local units and the recommendation
of special humane projects. '

Mrs. Burton Traveled 18,000 Miles

It required 18,000 miles of travel by
motorcar for Mrs. Burton to reach the
102 schools and the various Parent-
Teacher, church and welfare meetings in
the mountain districts of Tennessee,
where she gave 142 addresses before
audiences aggregating 25,000 of whom
15,000 were children. She reports splen-
did co-operation in the ﬁeld with grow-
ing interest in humane education. She
works in close co-operation with Parent-

Teacher groups. She obtained 5,000 Jack
London Club pledges and distributed
more than 3,000 pieces of literature.

Many Bands of Mercy in Florida

Ninety—three cities and towns in Flor-
ida were visited by Mr. Griﬂ‘ith, who
reported 546 Bands of Mercy in 73
schools. He spoke before 18,000 pupils
and 6,500 adults, in addition to using the
loud speaker on the streets in many in-
stances. He reports that he ﬁnds Our
Dumb Animals the greatest help in his
work and that it creates interest in bar-
ber shops, ﬁlling stations and other
places besides the schools where it is
especially in demand. Mr. Grifﬁth secured
a proclamation for Be Kind to Animals
Week from the mayor of De Land.

In Richmond and Washington

Miss Finley visited 77 white schools in
Richmond and vicinity, gave several
talks and held three exhibits of litera-
ture. Miss Virginia Sargent represented
the Society in Washington, D. C., during
the summer. She gave several talks to
children in Bible schools and on play«
grounds, organized Bands of Mercy, and
distributed quantities of literature.

300 Bands in Colored Schools

In his work among the colored people
of Virginia Mr. Lemon went to about 25
different towns each month, involving an
average of 1,000 miles of travel. He gave
more than 200 talks in schools and nearly
60 sermons and addresses to adults, be-
fore audiences totaling more than 25,000.
He reported about 300 new Bands of
Mercy and the distribution of 2,700 hu—
mane leaﬂets. Among exhibits of litera-
ture which he held was one at the Sum—
mer School for Teachers and the Min—
isters’ Conference, at Hampton Institute,
attended by 1,200 persons.

Unusual Activities in the Carolinas

Mr. Carroll, with headquarters in
Columbia, South Carolina, reports activi—
ties reaching far beyond his own city or
state. He sent out news releases to the
Negro press throughout the entire coun-
try with gratifying responses. He headed
a committee which secured the Be Kind
to Animals Proclamation from the Gov-
ernor of South Carolina and ofﬁcial en-
dorsement of the Week from the State
Superintendent of Education and the
president of the State Teachers’ Associa-
tion. He arranged for radio talks over
six stations in North Carolina and three
stations in South Carolina. He gave a
number of lecture courses in summer
schools for teachers in the Carolinas and

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 144

The Woodland Path
Mary Wilder Pease

The little path that beckons through the
trees,

How like it seems unto a friendly hand

Stretched forth to greet a stranger in a land

Where all the passing faces that he sees

Are blank to him as houses in a town

Where every shutter’s drawn and lights are
down.

The gracious path says follow me and meet

All the familiar friends you knew at home;

The cardinal, the wild rose newly-blown,

The bee grown heavy with his load of sweet,

Will bid you welcome, and somewhere mid
the thorn

A thrush may sing for you his tender song.

Faces may wear an unfamiliar guise

And distance make a Changeling of our
speech

And leave no landmark for our heart to
reach,

But woodland ways unto our homesick eyes

Will look the same, and if we pause to hear

Will Speak a world-wide language in our
ear.

Frisky Beauties
EPSY COLLING

IN the modern African game reserves

where one hunts only with a camera,
the traveler can see a “country as full of
wild animals as New York City is of
cats,” to quote Martin Johnson.

Big, soft-hearted Martin liked impalas
about as well as anything because they
were so much fun to watch.

He photographed them morning and
evening from a blind as they came down
to drink in small groups.
Each little herd had an old
female as lookout. If she
saw or smelled anything she
didn’t like, she’d sneeze.

“Kerchew 1”

And away went the im-
palas. Gone with a sneeze, as
it were. Even the tiny lambs

could keep up with their
elders for a short distance.
Impala lambs, in fact, can
skip about in quite lively
fashion when only half a
day old.

For some reason, impala
males are rams, and the
young are calle d lambs
though the animals are
really antelopes, not sheep.

Wherever practicable, a
pail of water in front of your
residence or place of busi-
ness will serve to quench
the thirst of animals.

IMPALA RAM ON AFRICAN GAME RESERVE

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Moose Thrive in Captivity
FERN BERRY

ECAUSE the Government felt that

some of Michigan’s wilderness area
could support a moose herd it has experi—
mented with the rearing of moose in
captivity at the Cusino Experiment Sta-
tion near Shingleton, Michigan. Here a
small herd is kept in corrals where they
are fed on browse cut for them by CCC
crews and fed in mangers. And these
big, awkward animals have become real
pets since being transported from the
wilderness of Isle Royale in 1936. Five
calves have been born in captivity, two
this last spring. Four adult moose are
kept in the corrals and the surplus ones
have been released.

A young bull, “Tom,” at the beginning
of the season after his horns lost their
velvet, managed to get out of the pens.
But after a couple of days of wandering
on his own, he made his way back and
entered the corrals of his own free will
and started eating the browse placed in
the mangers.

Despite their‘ugly appearance, moose
are gentle pets but when in anger will
sometimes use their hind feet to kick.

The calf born to a two-year-old cow
moose, “Lulu,” weighed 33 pounds at
birth. In six days it had gained 12
pounds. It makes a cunning pet and is a
favorite with the men of the CCC Camp
at Cusino.

Two animals released met with tragic
death. One drowned in the waters of
Kingston Lake when he attempted to
cross on thin ice. Another fell over Pic-
tured Rocks into Lake Superior and, un-
able to ﬁnd a place where he could swim
ashore in the strong undertow of the
deep water, perished.

 

 

Aug. 191,1

Reward of Merit

JACK KYTLE

N all parts of the nation where they

are found, the hard-working little en-
gineers of nature are, at last, receiving
their reward for meritorious service.
Conservation authorities are taking
steps to assure them permanent protec—
tion, for no animal is doing a better job
to protect the country’s natural re-
sources.

This busy builder, the beaver, pro-
vides a bright example of the job well
done. It does not know the meaning of
failure. If success is not attained at ﬁrst
effort, it renews the task with persistent
determination. And because of this fact,
erosion of farm soil is prevented, and
numberless ﬁsh are saved. Each time the
beaver builds a dam, the ﬁsh are assured
of an ideal lake and more abundant space
in which to feed.

One cannot study the beaver without
a dawning of admiration. It is the per-
ennial optimist, never fearing to attempt
the most difﬁcult task. Intelligent, and
given to minding its own business, the
little animal seems to take a superb
pride in its workmanship. When a dam
is completed, a tour of inspection is
made every day, and the slightest ﬂaw
is repaired immediately.

Always humbly peaceful unless con—
fronted by danger, the leader of a beaver
colony nevertheless enforces a policy of
work by all. When a fellow engineer
fails to give its best efforts, or idles
about while the others toil, it is at ﬁrst
reprimanded, and then forced to leave
the colony unless the reprimand is
heeded. But “it is not often that the lag-
gard beaver is found.

The task of observing the animal in
its natural surroundings is no easy one.
It is very timid, constantly alert for
what it believes to be impending menace.
A stream may be crowded with beavers,
but if one of‘them begins slapping the
water with its tail, all quickly disappear-
This water slapping practice is their sig-
nal for danger, and their ﬂight is made
simple by the fact that they can stay
beneath water for some ﬁfteen minutes.

All of the other small creatures of the
forest, and all ﬁsh, are safe from harm
so far as the beaver is concerned. Its
food is conﬁned strictly to twigs, bark,
leaves, and water plants. It wants only
to be left alone to go about its business
of building dams, a work that is solely
constructive. Small wonder, then, that
conservation officials call the beaver a
sound investment for the nation’s good.

One bird and three animals—ptarmi—
gan, weasels, arctic fox, and certain
hares—are the only wild creatures ca-
pable of changing their plumage or fur
to white in winter.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Aug. 1941

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

‘ ffssasaaraia a: a
.amspag‘cwm ssamars ,

amaﬂs a MAN KW -'
Sacserv‘ ﬁscmaa

 

EXHIBIT OF HUMANE LITERATURE AT NATIONAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION CONVENTION, BOSTON

 

Prizes in Natick Schools

ASH prizes were awarded late in

June to twelve pupils in schools of
Natick, Mass, for the best compositions
upon some incident or situation pertain—
ing to kindness to animals. Mrs. Ralph
Sweetland contributes a fund each year
for the purpose of emphasizing to a
greater number of pupils the importance
of Be Kind to Animals Week. The con-
test is open to all pupils in all grades.
This year more than 200 compositions
were submitted.

The Child’s Appeal
I am the child.

All the world waits for my coming.

All the world watches with interest to see
what I shall become.

Civilization hangs in the balance,

For what I am, the world of tomorrow will

be.

—Penn-Bu|letin

A Great Gathering of Teachers

HE National Education Association

convention was held in Boston, June
28 to July 8. It was said that some—
thing like 12,000 teachers gathered here
for that celebrated congress. Mechanics
Building, the scene of many of the meet-
ings, contained hundreds of exhibits
having to do more or less with education
and the various interests associated with
it.

Our two Societies had one of the most
attractive exhibits in the entire build—
ing. A photograph of it appears here.
In constant attendance were one or two
representatives of our Societies, with
displays of our posters and literature,
and teachers stopping at the exhibit
were told that if they would leave their
name and address, samples of such lit-
erature as they desired would be mailed
to them. The number of cards left by
these teachers amounted to approximate-
ly 500.

The majority of these teachers at-

tending the Convention were grade-
school teachers, and so coming in direct
contact with the younger children of our
schools, and evidently were deeply in-
terested in the teaching of justice and
kindness to all animal life, both human
and sub-human. Besides teachers and
delegates from the forty-eight states
who requested information, there were
also visitors from as far away as Alaska
and Hawaii.

The exhibit was arranged and super-
vised by Mr. John F. Cotter, represent-
ing the two Societies.

Cat Pointers

A few points to remember about your
cat. Don’t fail to keep fresh water for
your cat at all times; milk is not a sub—
stitute for water. Don’t forget that cats
are very easily poisoned by antiseptics,
soaps or medicines that are harmless to
human beings or dogs. Tar, soaps con-
taining carbolic acid, gasoline, turpen—
tine or any powders containing these
things may be fatal to a cat.

__'_—
, _~__.____'——

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

July, 1941 0U R DUMB

    
  

“WW3" «(r l

     

D‘ v'p',

i\\

l I
UM
. -./z./.Il//l/4414/Illllll m,“ “A? ‘

_ ;..,-,;.«.._,'l ..J 5'. . ‘ ”‘x.’
.’J)”,ﬂ"rmmm.m|n ' ".

  

. ... -
g r 2”

H . l 714.3;

 

. \

'w
-?..~: I‘
->:~’
.. '. "I

. _- x
' :3"; \\

 

Faithful Jim
NONA KEEN DUFFY

I have a horse, aworking horse,
I call him “Faithful Jim;”

He works for me, and loves me, too,
And I am fond of him.

I put him in a barn at night,
And brush him every day;

I give him water in; a trough
And feed him oats and hay.

I do not whip my working horse,
Nor jerk the reins, nor scold;
I put a blanket on his back
To shelter him from cold.

I let him stand in shade of trees
Instead of in the sun;

I put him safely in his stall
When all his work is done!

“Knee-Hi,” the Educated Dog

MARION FREDA

NEE-HI” teaches trafﬁc etiquette. She is an edu-
cated dog who has taught more than 6,000,000
children how to play, walk and run safely.

Knee-Hi is teamed up with Dr. George E. Brunson,
child psychologist, to help put across her message in
safety to youthful friends all over the country.

Knee-Hi has demonstrated before school children in
Detroit, Tampa, Miami, Jacksonville, Baltimore, Wash-
ington, Philadelphia, Charlotte, Richmond, Atlanta and
many other large cities in the United States.

This trafﬁc-trained seven—year-Old wire-haired fox
terrier knows more about the meaning Of red and green
trafﬁc signals and gestures Of the traffic Ofﬁcer than do
most 17 -year-Old humans.

Knee-Hi shows the children how to get Off and on a
bus or street car. She shows when to cross the street.
She will take the ball away from children playing in the
street and carry it to a vacant lot.

She was waiting on a street corner one day, ready to
cross the street, when a lady ahead with a baby buggy
was about to cross on a red light. Knee-Hi promptly
caught her by the dress and pulled her back to the side-
walk, just in time to avoid being hit by a car which the
lady did not see.

This safety—conscious dog is not all business all the
time. She likes to mix business and pleasure sometimes
and does take time out once in awhile to play a game Of
ball With children in a nice safe vacant lot.

ANIMALS

    
     
    

  

11M

/” -Ill")j,

 

A Charming Samaritan
RAYMOND DONOVAN

H ERE is seven-year-Old Beverly Diane Vitale feed-
ing diluted evaporated milk from a toy doll milk
bottle, with a little rubber nipple, to one of three kittens
who were orphaned when only one week Old by a careless
motorist. Their owners, Bruce Vitale, ten, and his sister,
Beverly, fed the kittens in this manner until they could
be taught tO lap milk from a saucer.

As was the case with the mother cat, these kittens will
be trained not to catch birds by having them associate
with baby chicks at an early age on the farm. The kittens
will be placed in a run with the chicks and cautioned if
attempts are made by them to injure the poultry. This
identical method of training worked wonders in the
mother cat upon whose back a bird could alight without
being harmed.

What Do You Know About Nature?

Answers to questions asked on this page last month

1. The beaver. 2. Ostrich. 3. The cormorant. 4. The
halibut. 5. Ostrich. 6. Female. 7. The dog. 8. Drone. 9.
Animal. 10. The robin. 11. The cowbird. 12. The boar,
hippopotamus and walrus. 13. Because Of the extreme
saltiness Of the water. 14. On the cow’s nose. 15. Yes,
cases of rabies have been found among cats, foxes,
wolves and skunks.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Mar. 1941

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 51

Seventy-third Annual Report of the President
For the Year Ending December 31, 1940

l

The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention

E wonder how many of our
readers will really read this
annual report. The story of our
two Societies’ work, however, will most
quickly and satisfactorily be seen and
understood by a study of the ﬁgures
appearing in the returns printed below.
We believe these ﬁgures are accurate.
There has been no purpose to make them
do more than tell the absolute truth.
The outstanding feature of The Massa-
chusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals’ work for the past
year, but which in no way has curtailed
its activities throughout the Common-
wealth (such as inspection of poultry—
houses, slaughter-houses, stockyards, in—
coming livestock trains and investigation
of complaints) has been the expensive

Changes in Angell Animal Hospital

We publish again the photograph
which appeared in our August, 1940,
issue, and which shows the new equip-
ment put into our largest small-animal
ward. The glass kennels, raised from
the floor on specially-prepared concrete
bases, and so constructed that they

ME; I

twill!!!»
W

s
. t
}

   

/

      

OF WARD, WITH GLASS CAGES, AT ANGELL

can be kept in ideal sanitary condition,
with kennels and ﬂoors easily ﬂushed,
the plumbing and drainage arrange-
ments carefully planned for, are the last
word in the hospitalization of animals.

Ultimately all our large wards must be
remodeled to conform to the one just
described, and also the large upper iso—
lated ward where the distemper cases are
cared for. This will involve a further
expense of at least $30,000.

In addition to the work on the large

ward, of which we have just spoken, with ,

its sound-proof ceiling, sound-proof ceil-
ings have also been installed in one other
large ward, in the waiting—room of the
Hospital, and in the special consulting
room of the clinic, and in the doctors’
room.

The photograph appearing on page
53 shows the changes made in the room
where patients are awaiting their turn,
and the ofﬁce where they are registered,
and the cards ﬁled, and the patients
passed on to the clinic for examination.
A special corridor leads to an entirely
separate clinic room into which animals
are to be taken when there is any sus-

/.

HOSPITAL

of Cruelty to Animals

picion of contagious trouble. The en—
closures about the walls of the room,
where waiting people sit with their ani-
mals, are arranged so as to keep the
animals from coming into contact one
with another.

Deficit

The actual deﬁcit, due to services ren-
dered by the Boston Hospital for the
year 1940, was $40,309.03; in 1939 it was
$40,737.31. The actual deﬁcit, due to
services rendered by the Springﬁeld Hos-
pital in 1940, was $8,423.49; in 1939 it
was $5,533.22.

These ﬁgures do not include the ex-
penses involved in improvements made
in the Hospital buildings.

Holyoke Branch

As was reported last year, Mrs. Aaron
C. Bagg, organized what is known as the
Holyoke Branch of The Massachusetts
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals. This Branch has been doing
extraordinarily ﬁne work. The number of
animals cared for was 1,298, including
738 cats, 431 dogs, 2 foxes, 81 pigeons,
27 small birds, 7 rabbits, 6 turtles, 5
squirrels, and 1 hen. Many other small
woods’ creatures were brought in by chil—
dren. For the work in Holyoke the
Society has paid $553.87.

We also have a Branch of our Society
in Taunton where many animals are
annually cared for in various ways.

The statistical reports, beginning with
that of the chief prosecuting ofﬁcer for
the entire State and the Angel] Memorial
Animal Hospital in Boston and the
Springﬁeld Hospital, follow:

REPORT OF CHIEF PROSECUTING
OFFICER FOR THE ENTIRE STATE

L. Willard Walker, Chief Officer

Complaints investigated ......... 4,01 8
Prosecutions ................... 49
Convictions ...................... 41
Animals inspected .............. 7 l ,97 2

Miles traveled .................. 202,498
Horses, injured or unfit for service,

humanely put to sleep ........
Horses taken from work ........

478
119
Small animals—injured , diseased or
unwanted—humanely put to sleep 26,086
Animals placed in homes ......... 2,745
801

Animals returned to owners ......

 

 




 

 

u U S Trade Mark, Registered & [11.

"”mm, m 1868. AND FOR FORTYONEVEARS

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,

Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,

Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
—COWPER

AND MERCY T‘o
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

 

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

Entered as second-class matter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass” under the Act of March 3,1879
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3,1917, authorized, July 13,1919

Boston Ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

Vol. 74

December, 1941

No. 12

 

Christmas

To all our readers and to all our fel-
low mortals on land, and sea, and in the
air, we wish the best possible Christ-
mas. To many in this land, particularly
among the young, it will be a Merry
one, in spite of all that war is meaning
in this troubled world.

If we cannot sing this Christmas Day
what men have called the Angels’ Song,
PEACE ON EARTH GOOD WILL TO
MEN -—we can at least make that Song
a Prayer.

Many a Thanksgiving dinner in
America would have tasted sweeter had
it been shared with some of the hungry,
starving millions of other lands.

The October issue of the Blue Cross,
the organ of the Shanghai and the
Hongkong S. P. C. A., comes to our
desk in the same attractive form, giving
evidence of good work done.

If the people of this great land had
no other reason to celebrate a Thanks—
giving Day than that they were living
here and not in any of the war stricken
lands across the sea, that reason alone
would call for the profoundest gratitude.

In spite of the fact that it was fore-
told that the law, excluding from the
Eastern Exposition horses with set-up
tails, would seriously affect the ﬁnancial
returns of the Exposition, we now read
in the Springﬁeld Republican of Septem-
ber 21, “There is general rejoicing about
the new attendance records achieved
without the horse show.”

A Remarkable Editorial

HIS is the way it begins:
“According to the Western Press
Committee, the estimate for the cost of
education in the United States during
the year 1940 was 3 billion, 83 million
dollars. But the cost of crime was 15
billion.”

This editorial appears in the October
issue of Our Animals, the monthly peri-
odical of the San Francisco Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

“The cost of education,” the editorial
continues, “was 3 billion, 83 million dol-
lars in 1940. All well spent, all return-
able, worth an unfathomable amount in
years to come. This isn’t cost, this is
good, sound investment. The cost of
crime was 15 billion dollars. All lost,
never to be recovered. A wanton, wicked
waste, and all the more so because it is
preventable.

“If dollars alone were involved, even
15 billions might be cheap. But what of
the wasted lives of the offenders, the
heartaches of parents who have seen
their children bring them disgrace and
ruin? What of the children of the crimi-
nals? What —-— but the list is endless.”

It is further stated that scarcely any
one of us realizes what this terriﬁc loss
means to him individually. It means that,
divided among the individuals of the
United States, it cost just $114 for each
man, woman and child in the country to
support crime during the year 1940. It
means that you and I and every member

’of our family, one way or another, had

to pay for this in taxes. No burglar may
have attacked our home, no member of
our family may have been harmed or

wronged or destroyed by any criminal,
but each of us is paying this bill year by
year.

What a pity that such a vast amount
of our actual taxes are “hidden.” Multi-
tudes pay them and have no idea they
are paying them. N 0 one presents a tax
bill saying “This is your share for the
expenses of crime in the United States.”
No one comes to our house to collect a
tax on every loaf of bread, on'practically
everything we eat or drink or wear. But
that tax was paid by us when we bought
the bread and nearly every other neces-
sity that came into our homes.

The great emphasis of this editorial
of which we have been speaking, of
course, is laid upon the matter of educa-
tion. A generation of children trained
in the principles of justice, and fair play
toward all living creatures, trained to
recognize the rights of their human fel-
lows, trained to live in obedience to law
and as individual parts of a great moral
order—for that 15 billions might well be
spent instead of for the punishment of
crime.

How few recognize that toward this
goal of a better citizenship Humane Edu—
cation is one of the most Vital forces at
work in our land today. Who can reckon
what it has meant to the states of this
Union that our own American Humane
Education Society has gathered into
small humane groups nearly 8 million
children in our schools since the Society
was organized, always stressing the spir-
it of a universal brotherhood toward all
their human fellows and of kindness to-
ward all forms of sentient life below
them? This is the great work of the
humane organizations in the world today.

 

am A‘ iﬂéziré

:- N; sc—x

A g 47 : ..;.a, A, .(s .. -_ a: a
._ ..A. .“N.& ”4-:- :—:;v¢i-—a£‘ r

+g.‘

'Wﬁ‘exxyﬂmu ’x. -... EN":—

 

 

- r

 

 




Aug. 1 91,1

The Hearing-Ear Dog
BLANCHE FEWSTER

OKKO,” a German shepherd, owned

by two deaf sisters, Misses Genevieve
and Adelaide Calkins of San Francisco,
is a ﬁne demonstration of what a hear—
ing-ear dog can accomplish. He was
trained by John Collier in seven months
to perform a full round of duties in the
Calkins house.

If the front door rings, Jokko barks
and runs back and forth to the front
door. If it is the back door, whether the
tradesman’s ring or a neighbor’s knock,
he indicates the presence of the caller.
The dog also barks when the evening
paper is thrown against the front steps
and when the milkman leaves the milk.

Jokko does many other things that
prove his worth, and on one occasion
:saved the lives of his mistresses.

The Misses Calkins live by themselves,
except for Jokko, in an old-fashioned
mansion. The ladies sleep upstairs. Jok-
ko sleeps with one ear open on a rug in
their room. The bedroom door is kept
slightly ajar for J okko to tour the house
if he hears anything.

One night, after a slight earthquake
.had set the house a-quiver, J okko went
on a prowl about the house. He smelled
a strange odor and must have sensed
that it was dangerous. He ran to the
bedroom and aroused the sleepers.

The sisters, who, in spite of their
deafness are able to hear the dog’s loud
barks, got up but could see nothing
amiss. Not being able to smell the al-
most oderless natural gas of California,
they returned to bed.

But Jokko wasn’t satisﬁed and con—
tinued to bark. He stOpped before the
grill each time he ran across the room.
The women decided something must be
wrong in the basement. An investiga-
tion there revealed that a gaspipe lead-
ing to the bed of the furnace had broken
at the joint, probably by the earthquake.
Emergency repairmen said that enough
gas might have collected in the bedroom
to have asphyxiated the women.

Jokko trusts no one until he is well
acquainted with him. He always keeps
an eye on his mistresses’ safety by
standing beside them at the door until
strange callers depart, or staying beside
them when a stranger is in the house.

Collier trained Jokko to note all noises,
strange or familiar, and taught him to
lead one or the other of the sisters to
where the noise came from. Thus J okko,
the hearing-ear dog, does for the deaf
what the seeing-eye dog does for the
blind.

When resting, ﬁsh relax their nerves
or sleep. They have no eyelids, conse-
quently their eyes remain open even
during rest periods.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

A Fair Exchange
DOROTHY L.PILLSBURY

NE of the quaintest evidences of

consideration for wild animal life
came to my attention out on the high
mesa lands of New Mexico.

In the fall the pinon trees drop their
small brown nuts on the hills in the
wooded section of the state. The pinon
is an institution in New Mexico. The In—
dians roam from forest to forest gath-
ering in their winter supply.

The native Mexicans, on horse back,
in old wheezing cars, in bright shining
new cars, in lumbering wood wagons,
by lop-eared burro, or on foot travel
over the painted, shining mesa lands up
to the wooded hills to gather “los pin-
ones.”

“Los pinones” have a delicate, piny
ﬂavor and for generations have been a
necessary ingredient of Mexican cookery.
Even today, when the citizens of Santa
Fe go to the Saturday night band con-
cert in the plaza, the best part of the
evening is to sit along the curbing and
to listen to the music,—and to eat
pinons. Even in the local university an
irate professor wrote on the blackboard,
“If you have to eat pinon nuts in class,
kindly put the shells in your pocket, not
on the ﬂoor.”

So when Tito, my little Mexican neigh-
bor, said he would take me out to gather
“los pinones” in the hills on the Vegas
road, I felt I was in a good way to be—
come a real New Mexican. I noticed
when we started that Tito was carrying
a big bag evidently ﬁlled with some—
thing heavy, but I asked no questions.
Little Mexican boys don’t like Senoras
to ask too many questions.

Tito and I picked and picked, but as
the nuts are very small, our bags did
not make much of a showing.

“Come,” said Tito, “this way we won’t
have enough for one band concert or for
one Western in the movie place. If we
could only ﬁnd the ‘casa’ (house) of the
trader rat!”

He went prowling off across the hills,
looking behind boulders and around
clumps of cactus. Suddenly he gave a
satisﬁed, “bueno.” A conical pile of sticks
and twigs showed where Mr. Trader Rat
had made his home. Tito scratched
around a little and then motioned me to
come and see. There in a great heap
were the trader rat’s industrious glean-
ings of the pinon harvest. “Twenty-
thirty pounds,” said Tito, showing his
ﬁne white teeth, “all in a nice pile for
us.” It was like a little pinon granary.

When the pinons had been transferred
to our own bulging bags, Tito did a
strange thing. He opened the heavy sack
he had brought from home, and on the
spot where the pinons had been, be

Page 147

emptied a great pile of golden corn.
“Why do you do that, Tito,” I asked.

“Because, Senora, we have taken Mr.
Trader Rat’s winter food. He would
starve to death when the snows come.
So I give him something he likes just
as well as “los pinones” and he keeps
fat and ﬁne all winter.”

“Why, that’s one of the nicest things
I ever heard,” I said. “You’re a very
smart, kind boy, Tito.”

Tito’s big black eyes twinkled. “I did
not think it up, Senora. All the Mexi-
can boys do that, my ‘padre’ did and his
‘padre.’ It is the custom of the country,”
he said gravely.

I thought of the American extermina-
tion of little wild furry things and I was
ashamed. Here was a custom that had
come down from father to son, a humane
and lovely custom which had persisted
through the years with the people who
had followed the “Conquistadores” over
the long, dangerous trail from old
Mexico.

Crickets produce a chirpirg sound by
rubbing the ﬁle-like edge on one wing
over a scraping surface on the other
wing. Only males make this sound, a
device to attract their mates.

The young beaver, muskrat, raccoon,
and mink are kits. Young elk, moose,
buffalo, elephant, and whales are called
calves. Immature wolves, foxes, lions,
tigers, and bears are cubs. Young dogs
and seals are pups. Baby deer are fawns
and baby antelope, as well as goats, are
kids.

 

“AL,” A CALIFORNIA FAVORITE

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Sept. 1941

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel
JOSEPH MOONEY, Treasurer’s Assistant

Trustees Of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President and Ch. Fi-
nance Com., United Shoe Machinery Corporation

CHARLES E. SPENCER, JR., President, First National
Bank of Boston
Prosecuting Officers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100

L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Oﬂicer

HARRY L. ALLEN HOWARD WILLAND
HARVEY R. FULLER J. ROBERT SMITH

County Prosecuting Officers

Middlesex and Norfolk
Eastern Essex
Western Essex
Western Essex

HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston
FRED T. VICKERS, Wenham
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen
JOSEPH E. HASWELL, Methuen
FRED F. HALL, Springﬁeld

ampden, Hampshire and Franklin
HARRY C. SMITH, Worcester Worcester
CHARLES E. BROWN, Attleboro, Bristol and Plymouth
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis

Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
T. KING HASWELL, Pittsﬁeld Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Other Small Animal Shelters of M. S. P. C. A.
Boston, 170-184 Longwood Avenue
Springﬁeld, 53-57 Bliss Street
Pittsﬁeld. 224 Cheshire Road
Attleboro, 3 Commonwealth Avenue
Hyannis, State Road, Rte. 28, Centerville
Wenham, Cherry Street

JULY REPORT OF THE OFFICERS OF
THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.,
WITH HEADQUARTERS AT BOSTON,
METHUEN, SPRINGFIELD, PITTSFIELD,
ATTLEBORO, WENHAM, HYANNIS, WOR-
CESTER, FITCHBURG, NORTHAMPTON,
HAVERHILL, HOLYOKE, ATHOL, COV-
ERING THE ENTIRE STATE

Miles traveled by humane officers . . 17,365
Cases investigated ............. 307
Animals examined ............. 4,487
Animals placed in homes ........ 285
Lost animals restored to owners. . 115
Number of prosecutions ........ 9
Number of convictions 7
Horses taken from work ....... 9
Horses humanely put to sleep . . . . 42
Small animals humanely put to sleep 3,120
Horse auctions attended ........ 15
Stockyards and Abattoirs
Animals inspected ............. 51,932
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep ................ 27

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals
184 Longwood Avenue. Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians
E. F. SCHROEDER, D.v.M., Chief of Staff
R. H. SCHNEIDER, v.M.D., Asst. Chief
G. B. SCHNELLE, v.M.D.
T. O. MUNSON, v.M.D.
C. L. BLAKELY, v.M.D.
M. S. ARLEIN, D.v.M.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springﬁeld Branch

Telephone 4-7355
53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.

Veterinarians
A. R. EVANS, v.M.D. H. L. SMEAD, D.v.M.

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR JULY
At 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

Cases entered, in Hospital ........ 817
Cases entered in Dispensary ...... 2,110
Operations ...................... 414
At Springﬁeld Branch, 53 Bliss Street
Cases entered in Hospital ........ 180
Cases entered in Dispensary ...... 693
Operations ...................... 119
At Attleboro Clinic, 3 Commonwealth Ave.
Cases entered ................... 86
Totals
Hospital cases since opening, Mar.
1, 1915 ...................... 196,639
Dispensary cases ............... 496,188
Total .............. 692,827

Branches and Auxiliaries
MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Northampton Branch Of Mass. S. P. C. A.—MISS
EMILY HALE, Pres.; MISS MILDRED MOULTON, Treas.

Great Barrington Branch Of Mass. S. 1’. C. A.—
MRS. ROBERT MAGRUDER, Pres.; MRS. DONALD WORTH-
INGTON, Treas.

Holyoke Branch Of Mass. S. 1’. C. A.—MRS. AARON
C. BAGG, Pres.; MRS. ROBERT E. NEWCOMB, Treas.

Springfield Branch Auxiliary—MRS. CARLTON H.
GARINGER, Pres.; MRS. RICHARD A. BOOTH, Treas.
Second Thursday.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary—MRS. RICHARD S.
TAYLOR, Pres.; MRS. JOHN HAMILTON CLARKE, Treas.

Boston Work Committee Of Mass. S. P. C. A.—MRS.
GEORGE D. COLPAS, Chairman.

A Noble Organization

We received recently the 101st Annual
Report of the Scottish Society for the
Prevention Of Cruelty to Animals from
its secretary, Mr. Lyndesay G. Langwill.
One would scarcely think that such a re-
port could be issued, the conditions
being such as they are in Great Britain.
In spite of the handicaps caused by this
dreadful war, an amazing amount Of
ﬁne work was done by this noble organ-
ization.

One is reminded of the story of the
Old lady who, on her hundredth birth—
day, was Visited by her rector who came
to condone with her upon the inﬁrmi-

 

Page 171

Harry C. Smith

Harry C. Smith, Of North Brookﬁeld,
is the new Worcester county agent Of
The Massachusetts Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals, succeed-
ing the late Robert L. Dyson. Mr. Smith
was three years in the United States
Navy and thirteen years in the Massa-
chusetts State Police, from which he has
just resigned with the rank of corporal.

He was born in Woburn, forty-two
years ago. At the age Of eighteen he en-
listed in the Navy and for a year at-
tended the Navy’s electrical school. He
then went into the electrical business,
and later joined a lumber concern.

In 1928, he became a patrolman in the
State Police force. He was attached, in
turn, to the Rehoboth, Norwell, South
Yarmouth and Hyannis stations, to the
last—named as corporal in charge, and
for the past year and a half has been in
charge of the western Worcester county
district, stationed at Brookﬁeld. For a
time he was attached to the Office Of
Edmund R. Dewing, district attorney
of Norfolk county, investigating pOOl
rooms, horse-betting places, lotteries,
number pool and gambling joints.

Officer Smith is an expert revolver
shot, and in years past has enjoyed a
similar distinction in the use Of a Krag—
Jorgensen riﬂe.

Both Mr. Smith and his wife are keen
lovers of animals. They have no chil-
dren, but they have “Penny,” a hand-
some cocker spaniel.

The Smiths live on Green Street,
North Brookﬁeld, where the telephone
number is North Brookﬁeld 504. His
Worcester Office is at 306 Main Street;
telephone, Worcester 3—4289.

“I appreciate the difﬁculty in follow—
ing in the footsteps of a man like Robert
Dyson,” said Officer Smith, “but I’m
going to do my best to give Worcester
county the same sort of humane service
he gave. He had the people solidly behind
him, and I, in turn, am asking for the
support and co—Operation Of the public.
I am fortunate in beginning this work
in a section that has been so successfully
cultivated in humane sentiment, due
largely to Mr. Dyson’s untiring efforts
over a period of forty-one years.”

 

 

ties and troubles connected with Old age.
She listened to him patiently, and then
said, “I need none of your sympathy,
sir, I am much stronger on me legs
beginning me second century than I was
me ﬁrst.”

Who shall measure the inﬂuence of
such an organization through a hun—
dred years Of its history?

After all, the Jews have stood by the
graves Of all their oppressors in turn.

DEAN INGE

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

KEEP YOUR DOGS

  
      
    

  

I N E M A
WORM CAPSULES

Use Nema Capsules to remove
ilarge roundworms and hook-
worms. Effective—Dependable.

F R E E Send for Nema
'~ booklet No.652.
Write to Animal Industry Dept, Desk N584
PARKE, DAVIS & 60., DETROIT, MICH.

Drug Stores Sell Parke-Davis Products

 

 

Compliments of
GALLUP and HADLEY
Attorneys and Counsellors-at-Law

DANA T. GALLUP 6 BEACON ST.,
EDWIN W. HADLEY BOSTON, MASS.

 

 

 

 

NEW ENGLAND ANTI-GAMBLING
ASSOCIATION. INC.
6 BEACON ST., BOSTON, MASS.

“We compliment the M. S. P. C. A. on its
noble work to - prevent cruelty to racing
animals." ‘

EDWIN W. HADLEY, President

 

 

 

 

 

 

MAI/YIW/RIEJ' 5'4)’

“M/ZDD’ MfD/CATED (UT/CURA /5

 

 

 

The Right Films Promote
Humane Education

THE BELL OF ATRI
illustrating Longfellow’s poem,
and
IN BEHALF OF ANIMALS

showing the practical work of the
Massachusetts 8'. P. C. A. and the
Angeli Animal Hospital. For terms

Address
Secretary, 180 Longwood Ave.
Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

Since 1 832

J. s. WATERMAN & SONS, Inc.
linhrrtakrra

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE

City and out-of-town service

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Humane literature and Band of Mercy Supplies

For sale by the American Humane Education Society and the Massachusetts S. P. C. A._

180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass, at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold-face type

Our Dumb Animals, 1940, bound volume $1.00
Our Dumb Animals, 1936, 1937, and 1939

bound volume, each .................. .75
Colored Posters, 17 x 28 inches, attrac-

tive pictures and verses, six in set . 1.00
Colored Posters, 17 x 22 inches, eight in

the set ................ 5 cts. each; eight for 35 cts.

Be Kind to Animals Blotters, 6%; x 3% $0.50 per 100

About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth ...... 50 cts.
The Horse—Treatment of Sores, etc....$0.60 per 100

Humane Education Leaflet, No. 5 ........ .50 “ “
The Horse's Prayer .................... .30 “ "
How to Treat a Horse .................. .50 “ “
The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow .. 50 “ “
About the Dog
Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 ........ small,50 cts.
[Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post-card. .$1.00 per 100
The Dog Its Care in Health and Disease .60 “ “

 

Suggestions for Feeding Dogs .......... 2.00 “ “
Important Advice on Feeding the Dog

and the Cat —- by Dr. Rudolph H.

Schneider . . . . . .............. 1.00 “ “
Humane Education Leaflets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ “
What the Chained Dog Says .......... .50 “ “
The Story of Barry .................... .30 “ “
“Don” and His Boy Scout Friends, J. P.

Lyons ................................. .50 “ “
Road Accidents to Dogs, 4 pp. ........ Free
Boots’ Day, Play, for two boys and three

girls ..................... 3 cts. each; five for 10 cts.

About the Bird
The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus. ...... cloth, $0.45
Humane Education Leaflets, Nos. 1 and 2.$05.50 per 100/
How the Birds Help the Farmer ........ .50 ” “
The Air—Gun and the Birds ............ .50 “ “
The Care of Caged C‘anaries .......... .30 “ “

About the Cat

The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease.$0.60 per 100

The Cat in Literature .................. .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ...... .50 “ “
Mollie Whitefoct’s Vacation ............ 50 “ “

“The Beggar Cat,” post—card, 6 cts. doz. .50 “ “

About Other Animals

The Strike at Shane’s cloth, 30 cts. . paper, 7cts.
For Pity’s Sake ........................ paper, 5 cts.
The Great Cruelty Again, Dr. Rowley.. Free
First Aid to Animals, Dr. Schneider, 8 pp.$1.00 per 100
Gripped in the Teeth of Steel, 2 pp. .50 “ “
How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4 pp. 1.00
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 6, Animals .50 “

ll ‘0

\Vays of Kindness ..................... . .50 “ “
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 7, Farm

Animals ........................... . . . . .50 “ “
A Wise Fish ..................... .50 “ "
Care of Rabbits .................. .30 “ “
Hints on the Care of Cows ..... . ..... . .50 “ "
Directions for the Care of Swine 1.00 “ “
Professor Frog’s Lecture, 8 pp. ........ .75 “ "
\Vhy the Toad is so Useful ............ .30 “ ”
Jewish and Genetile Methods of Slaugh-

tering, illus. .......................... each, 15 cts.
Vivisection—The Opinions of Famous

People, illus. ........................ each, 20 cts.

The Jack London Club

Michael Brotllier of Jerry, Jack London, cloth, 75 cts.
What is the Jack London Club? ........ $0.30 per 100

are of books or booklets

Foreword from “Michael Brother of J erry”$0.30 per 100
Films, Fakes and Facts, Helen T‘revelyan

4 pp. ..................... ........ .50 “ “
Do Wild Animals Prefer C'aptivity?

Helen Trevelyan, 4 pp .............. . . .50 “ “
Trained Animals —— Cruelty Disguised,

Helen Trevelyan, 4 pp. . . . . . . . . . ..... .50 “ “

Humane Education

The Animal or the Child, Dr. Rowley .. Free
Humane Education, An Activity of the
National Congress of Parents and

Teachers, by Dr. Francis H. Rowley Free
The Relation of the Home to Character

Formation, Dr. Francis H. Rowley Free
Humane Education and Spiritual Values,

Dr. Rowley ...... . ..... ...... Free
For Parents and Teachers, Plan of Work ' Free
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ........ Free
The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools

96 pp. .................. 12 cents each; ten for $1.00

Care and Kindness for Our Animal

Friends, 32 pp., paper covers, many

illus. .................. 10 cts. each; twelve for $1.00
Kindness Picture Book, 3-2 pp., 10 cts.; twelve for $1.00
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-

cation, 32 pp. ........................ each. 10 cts.
An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.

Gilbert, 48 pp. For first and second

grades ................................ each 10 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ........ each ‘25 cts.
The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

Rowley ................................ cloth, 35 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use) Sarah J. Eddy ............ cloth, $1.00
A Place for Pets, play ....... 2 cts. each; six for 10c.

The B—K—T—A—Club. play, 3 cts. each; ten for 250.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,”

play ....................... 3 cts. each; ten for 250.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play ......

3 cts. each; ten for 25 cts.

Humane Sunday ....................... 10. each

I’ll Never Hunt Again, play 3 cts. each; five for 10 cts.

The Best Gift, play ........ 2 cts. each; six for 10 cts.

Humane Exercises ...................... $1.50 per 100

Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.
Iowley, short radio address, 2 cts. each; .50

Humane Education, What to Teach and
How to Teach It ...................... .50 “ “

Outlines of Study in Humane Education 1.50

Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty .. .50 “ “
A Talk with the Teacher .............. .50 “ “
Our Love for Animals, a short radio

address ..................... 2 cts. each; 1.00 “ “
Bookmark, with “A Humane Prayer” 1.00 “ “
A Festival of Tender Mercies .......... .50 “ “
Need of Humane Education Societies

and Methods of Forming Them ........ .50 “ “
How to Organize a. Society for the

Protection of Animals ................ .50 “ “
Incidents about Animals, by Geo. T.

Angell ....... . .......... . .............. 1.00 “ “

Twenty Years of Be Kind to Animals
Week, Guy Richardson ..3cts. each; ten for 25 cts.

Band of Mercy

”Be Kind to Animals Buttons,” three
styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So-
ciety, or S. P C. A. .................. $1.00 per 100
Buttons—white star on blue ground with
gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00 “ “

Badges, gold finish, large, 10 cts., small 5cts.
“Band of Mercy" pennant ............ 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.

J. Eddy ............................... 50 cts.
Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words

only) ................ . ................. $3.00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ...... .50 “ “
How to Form Bands of Mercy .......... .50 “ “

Does it Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30 “ “

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1
AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood AV8., Boston, Mass,

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Page ’70

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the first Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Office: 180 Longwood Av-
enue, Boston, Mass“ to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. RO‘WLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

 

APRIL, 1941

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS, to take orders for Our Dumb Animals,
are wanted everywhere. Liberal commissions are
offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about 300 words, are solicited. We
do not wish to consider prose manuscripts longer
than 500 words nor verse in excess of twenty-four
lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts should
be typewritten and an addressed envelope with full
return postage enclosed with each offering.

 

 

Won’t You Read This?

RATEFUL as we are for all our

friends and members did for us in
1940 through their generous contribu—
tions, we shall need their gifts more
than ever in 1941.

The marked decline in ”interest rates
upon our invested funds, the increased
expense in keeping up the work of our
two Societies with our two Hospitals,
and the growing number of people bring-
ing their animals to the Hospitals who
cannot pay anything for service ren-
dered, the fear of ever-larger taxes on
the part of all who have contributed to
our work in the past, the need of new
members to take the places of those who
have passed away—because of these
things and because of the other chari-
table causes constantly pleading for ﬁ-
nancial aid, we pray our friends not to
forget us.

Many of our invested funds are re-
stricted so that only the interest can be
used, and less than one-half of our heavy
expenses comes to us from our invest-
ments. The rest, annually, we must seek
through every sane and reasonable meth-
od of solicitation.

The belief that we have sufﬁcient in-
vested funds to carry on our work has
materially lessened contributions in
many, many cases. With the vastly
larger ﬁeld of activities of the two SO-
cieties compared with many years ago,
we are even more in need of ﬁnancial
help than formerly. Our Hospitals’ ex—
penses for 1940 exceeded all we received
from those who bring animals for treat-
ment by $48,732.

Once more we are glad to say to our
readers that any money sent to us for
animal relief in England will be for-
warded as received.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Great Victory for Wild Birds

UR readers will rejoice at the good
news embodied in the four follow—
ing paragraphs taken from a statement
issued by the National Audubon Society:
A great victory has been won for the
wild birds of the world through the
signing, on February 6, 1941, of a joint
declaration of policy and program by the
National Audubon Society and Feather
Industries of America, Inc., believed to
be in the best interests of conservation.
The outstanding provision of the dec-
laration is that the members of the
feather industry join with the Society in
advocating federal and state legislation
to bring about permanent cessation of
all trafﬁc in the United States in wild
bird plumage of any kind from any
source.

There is every likelihood that within
a few weeks’ time a bill will have been
introduced and legislation enacted in
New York State, the forerunner of simi-
lar federal and uniform state laws,
which will write the ﬁnal epitaph, with-
in six years, to United States trafﬁc in
wild bird plumage.

Members of the National Audubon
Society and all friends of wild life every-
where will welcome termination of a
period of inadequate protection of wild
birds resulting from the existence of
loopholes in plumage laws, federal and
state, and confusion induced by differing
interpretations of those laws. Moreover,
many kinds of wild birds are not pro-
tected by existing state legislation. Some
states have no plumage laws whatever.
Nevertheless, the campaign that was
won a generation ago marked a great
advance and all credit is due to those
who participated in it. The legislative
gains at that time were doubtless the
best that could then be obtained.

The Movies and Cruelty

Never since motion—pictures were
made has the cruel treatment of animals
in making them been so guarded against
as today.

The resolution signed by the Associa-
tion of Motion Picture Producers has
ended the use of the Running “W,” the
device by which horses have been sud-
denly thrown; also trustworthy ofﬁcials
of actual humane societies are now pres-
ent at the making of pictures in which
animals are used, and nothing permitted
to be done to which these oﬁicials can
object. Recently a certain newspaper,
using scenes from some pictures made
many years ago, wholly misrepresented
the present facts relative to this subject
of cruelty.

The American Humane Association,
through its representative, Mr. Richard
C. Craven, in Hollywood, has done and is
doing a ﬁne piece of work in preventing
future acts of cruelty.

April, 191,1

A Scientist on Christian

Ethics and War

Brief paragraphs from the pen of Professor
DUGALD C. JACKSON, of the Massachusetts Institute
of Technology, chairman of the joint committee
made up of the great engineering societies, and for
years head of the Department of Electrical Engineer-
ing at the above Institute.

HIS is the situation today, and
Americans must seriously scrutinize

their hearts to ﬁnd where they stand in

support of the civilization which rests on
Christian ethics. The rise of Hitlerism
as the most notable feature to totalitar-
ianism is the outcome of modern rela-
tions following ancient affairs. It is
active, powerful and cruel, and it must
go down, or the greatest human qualities
of Christian ethics face destruction.

The great step in world ethics came
from Christ’s teachings of the universal
brotherhood of man. This put the stamp
of dignity and equality of standing on
every human being. Even this grand
tenet of generous humanity has been
slow of acceptance in the world. How-
ever, democracy, as we are accustomed
to it in this country, rests on that doc-
trine as a foundation.

Then what of Hitlerism? It makes
government the sole master of the people
as individuals and as a whole. It sets
up an apocryphal Nordic test of race
superiority, and it places outside the
pale all of mankind failing to meet the
artiﬁcial tests set up by a selﬁsh or
fanatical coterie. . . . It stamps a heavy
foot on the tenets of the Christian re-
ligion which we cherish, and proposes a
barbarian set of beliefs to take the place.

It proposes a “New Order,” which in
fact is not new but parallels the tyran-
nies of Sennacherib the Assyrian, Ne-
buchadnezzar the Chaldean, Darius the
Persian, Alexander the Macedonian,
Jenghis Khan the Mongolian, Tamer-
lane the Tatar and Napoleon Bonaparte
the Corsican.

Hitlerism threatens the life of our
American democratic way of life and’
that of all other truly democratic na-
tions. Its broad success would spell the
overthrow of American national ideals
and a degradation of the individual citi-
zens to lives controlled by master-gov-
ernors, thus leaving the individuals with
lives that are little better than slavery.

—The Boston Herald

Reprints from March Number

A single leaf, including pages 45 and
46 from the March issue of Our Dumb
Animals, containing full particulars of
the prize contest for photographs of
domestic pets, now being conducted by
Our Dumb Animals, and various notices
in connection with the observance of Be
Kind to Animals Week, is now available
for free distribution. To those who will
carefully circulate these copies we will
mail up to ten without charge.

 




 

 

 

 

 

Page 78

@112 Tﬁanh nf ﬂarrrg nr

Sluninr 15111113112 411mm]?
DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary
E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer

PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living crea-
tures and try to protect them from
cruel usage.

The American Humane Education So—
ciety will send to every person who forms
a Band of Mercy of thirty members, and
sends the name chosen for the Band and the
name and post-ofﬁce address of the presi-
dent who has been duly elected, special
Band of Mercy literature and a gilt badge
for the president. See inside front cover
for prices of literature and Band of Mercy
Supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Seven hundred and seventeen new
Bands of Mercy were reported during
February. These were distributed as
follows:

Illinois ......................... 189
South Carolina .................. 150
Rhode Island ................... 140
Texas .......................... 62
Georgia ........................ 56
Massachusetts .................. 47
Virginia ........................ 31
Pennsylvania ................... 20
Florida ......................... 18
Vermont ........................ 3
Maine .......................... 1

Total number Bands of Mercy organ-
ized by Parent-American Society, 256,-
888.

With the arrival of the many refugee
children to our shores we believe that
humane education in our schools and
our thousands of Bands of Mercy will be
among the noblest object lessons to
which the attention of Visitors from
other lands could be directed.

School Poster Contest

All pupils in public and parochial
schools who have entered the prize poster
contest of the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.,
which closed March 29, will be interested
to know that as many of the prize-
winning posters as can be accommodated
there will be on exhibition in the Boston
Public Library, Copley Square, for two
or more weeks, beginning with Humane
Sunday, April 20. They will be shown in
various cases throughout the building
and in the public lecture hall. It is sug—
gested that pupils coming from a dis—
tance to attend the lecture by Thornton
W. Burgess on Humane Sunday, which
begins at 3:30 P. M., come early to View
the posters on the walls of the hall,

which will be open to the public at 2
o’clock.

OUR DUMB

ANIMALS

April, 1941

“Bo Bo” Is Bafﬂed by the Birds

PAUL HIDEY

like the baseball pitcher of the

pennant-Winning Tiger team after
whom he was named, has an over-abund-
ance of self—conﬁdence, self-reliance and
pride in his achievements. But since the
blue jays imposed upon him, he is a
changed cat. It is a proverbial truth that
when dog bites man it is no news. But
when man bites dog there is something
to write about. In like manner when a cat

B 0 B0” is a big soft gray kitten and

own, and they seemed so easy for him
to catch. They didn’t act as if they were
afraid of him the way the wrens and the
robins were. It ought to be easy work to
catch one any time he wished.

One day he determined not to put it
off "any longer. He was going to grab
one of those big birds and then he would
take it into the house with him as he did
the ﬁeld mice. There were lots of them
all about him right there in his own

 

“BO BO,” PAMPERED AND ADORED

annoys the birds, it is commonplace; but
when the birds play tricks on a eat there
is a story. And that is the story of
B0 B0.

It was a rainy night last spring when
a poor little tramp kitten meowed for
food at the home of a couple who were
lonesome for a pet. The dirty little fellow
was unattractive enough, but since he
was hungry they took pity on him. Pity
turned to love, and love to pride. Food,
baths and shelter made a different ani-
mal of him. He developed into a. greatly
prized pet. Pampered and adored, he
soon became the aristocrat of the house.

In all his adventures, such as every
cat has, he was never a coward. He often
brought home ﬁeld mice as trophies of
his prowess. Not that he ever deigned to
eat such ordinary food, he was too ac-
customed to catnip balls and cat biscuits
to care for mice other than as proof of
his ability in game hunting. Many a
ﬁght he had with other cats for suprem—
acy in the neighborhood, and these cost
him a great deal of suffering and many
chunks of fur. He even had a serious
set—to with a dog once, but it was the
blue jays which entirely baffled him.

Those beautiful big birds had always
attracted him. He wanted them for his

yard. Step by step, he stealthily crept
up upon them. They allowed themselves
to be clutched at, but each time they
seemed just beyond his reach. In tanta-
lizing manner they even seemed to invite
his attention. Up a tree he went after
them, but each time he grabbed they
managed just to escape him. He followed
them out on a limb, but by that time
they were in the twigs and always just
beyond his reach. He so coveted his prize
he didn’t notice where he was going.
But, ﬁnally, he got out on a very slender
twig where it was impossible for even
a gray kitten to hold on. Just then, as
if at a given signal, all those big blue
jays came ﬂying at him and they all
pounced on him at once, pecking him
unmercifully. Bo B0 was so startled, so
frightened, so smarting from attack that
he all but fell off his high perch. Whin—
ing in misery he turned about as quickly
as he was able and scurried down that
tree trunk as fast as he could in a
stream-lined retreat for home, with his
ﬂuffy tail out straight behind him and
his two little ears pressed tightly to his
small gray head.

And now Bo B0 is a changed cat. He
is as meek and as mild as a cat can be,
and never since that day has he shown
the least bit of interest in the blue jays.

 




 

 

 

Page 80

 

IN THE EDITOR’S LIBRARY

BOY, GRIZZLY, AND WOLF, Peter Gray
Wolf.

Here is a book to delight the heart of any
boy—all about animals and the secrets of
the woods. The author is an experienced
writer whose tales about the American
Indian and legends and poetry drawn from
European and Asiatic sources have been
told to many schools, clubs and camps, and
appeared in many magazines.

“Boy” is inducted into Mystery Valley
by Owl Man who teaches him many things
about animals, plants and birds, and tells
him stories every night before the ﬁre in
the cave. Several chapters are devoted to
the beaver; others deal with the wolf,
grizzly, rabbits, otter, coyote, marmot, and
various birds. Gentleness and kindness pre-
vai‘l everywhere, and all who read these
tales cannot fail to learn wholesome lessons
about wild life.

Nearly a score of illustrations, including
the colored frontispiece, by Helen Hughes
Wilson, add to the attractiveness of the
volume. Here is excellent supplementary
reading for pupils in grammar grades,
right in line with teaching kindness to
animals.

130 pp. $2. The Caxton Printers, Ltd..,
Caldwell, Idaho.

HAPPY CATS, Sarah J. Eddy.

Here is another interesting cat book by a
rare lover of that animal. Many of our
readers will recall “Alexander and Some
Other Cats,” ﬁrst published by the same
author several years ago. In the new vol-
ume the compiler presents a fund of in-
formation telling how to treat your cat,
how to feed it, how to care for it in disease,
and on the importance of making suitable
provision for it when you leave on vacation.

The chief feature, however, is the collec—
tion of nearly 100 pictures of cats, in almost
every conceivable pose. These are ﬁne half-
tone reproductions of actual photographs,
many of them taken by Miss Eddy herself.
The book is privately printed by the Plimp—
ton Press, which is equivalent to saying
that it is an excellent specimen of typog-
raphy. It is bound in green cloth with the
picture of an attractive cat on the front
cover. Its ownership will delight the heart
of any lover of cats.

110 pp. $1.50. American Humane Edu—
cation Society, Boston.

MUD AND DUST, Randy.

This is a literary account of the auth-
or’s travels through Tennessee, Arkansas,
California, Wyoming, Indiana, and up to
Montreal. There is also a unique compila-
tion of short sentences, in the form of
proverbs, etc., some original and some
quoted. Several poems are also included.
The writer’s humane attitude is shown in
his touching account of the rescue of some
kittens while canoeing.

144 pp. $1.50. Christopher Publishing
House, Boston.

Remember the free, illustrated lecture,
“Making Friends with Animals and Birds,”
by Thornton W. Burgess, in Boston Public
Library, Copley Square, Humane Sunday,
April 20, 3:30 P. M.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

A Bear Speaks from the Zoo

Though I’ve been brought here to amuse,
Perhaps I may express my views;

With people crowding ’round my cage,
Sometimes my mindis filled with’ rage.
No doubt they come to gape at me . . .
But if they come for ME to see

Their mongrel faces, let me say,

I’d just as soon they stayed away.

How should you like to live in here,

No hope, no freedom, year on year?
Wouldn’t you love the human race

If they cooped you in such a place?

Ethel Fairmont in Waterbury Republican

The Truth About Hawks

Another unit in the series issued by
the Emergency Conservation Committee
is entitled “Common Hawks of North
America:” Its authors are Mrs. C. N.
Edge, chairman of the committee, and
Ellsworth D. Lumley. It is a timely and
effective pamphlet of twenty-six pages,
well illustrated.

The prejudice has too long persisted
that the hawks are injurious birds and
only deserve to be destroyed on sight.
They have been classed as thieves and
marauders that prey upon the farmers’
poultry and the young of many usefuI
birds. This deep-seated belief is unwar~
ranted. Many scientists and ornitholo—
gists have made examination of the feed-
ing habits of all our common hawks and
the results have proved beyond doubt
that the great majority of these birds
are beneﬁcial to man and to the farmer
particularly.

This treatise, as stated introductively,
“is an effort to spread true information
about the behavior of hawks, and their
relationship with other forms recognized
as valuable to mankind.” Its use is
recommended in schools and suggestions
are offered relating to “Research for Ad-
vanced Students and Questions for
Younger Students,” to be answered in
class.

This and other publications of the
Conservation Committee may be obtained
from Mrs. C. N. Edge, 734 Lexington
Avenue, New York City.

April, 191,1

Liberal Annuity Rates

Both of our Societies offer you semi-
annually during your lifetime a fixed income
on the sum given. Depending upon your age
at the time of the gift, the rate varies from
4%% to 9% per annum, beginning at age 45.

ADVANTAGES

No coupons to clip, no papers to sign and
mail. You simply receive your checks at
stated intervals—that’s all there is to it.

Annuity agreements are frequently used to
provide for the future years of a loved one
whose present income is temporary or in-
sufficient.

It is no experiment,
There is no anxiety,
No fluctuations in rate of income,
No waste of your estate by a will
contest.

'1!- * * * *

Persons of comparatively small means
may, by this arrangement, obtain a better
income for life than could be had with equal
safety by the usual methods of investment,
while avoiding the risks and waste of a will
contest and ultimately promoting the cause
of unfortunate animals.

The management of our invested funds is
a guarantee of the security of these Life
Annuities.

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A., or the
American Humane Education Society, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston, will be glad to
furnish further details.

 

 

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the first Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Office: 180 Longwood Av-
enue. Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS

One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of

the world.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct' to the ofﬁce en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AM'ERICAN HUDIANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Active Life $10000 '
Associate Life 50 00
Sustaining Life 20 00 Annual
Children’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
A. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston.

$10 00
5 00
1 00

Active Annual
Associate Annual

 

to Animals

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of
our Society is “The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals”; that it is the second incorporated (March, 1868)
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country, and
that it has no connection with any other similar Society.

Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angel]
Memorial Animal Hospital, should, nevertheless, be made to the Massa-
chusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals “for the use
of the Angel] Memorial Animal Hospital,” as the Hospital is not incor-
porated but is the property of that Society and is conducted by it.

FORM OF BEQUEST
I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty

(or to The American Humane Education Society), the sum
of .......... dollars, (or, if other property, describe the property).

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 166

The Bird in the Bush
Chas. Elliott

Refuting the oft-quoted but sadly mistaken adage:
“A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush.
My wide-open window at dawn of the day
Brings wonderful music from over the way;
As morning's first glimmer calls forth from

the birds ,

A free, happy choral of ”songs without
words"; .

And my own Spirit leaps as the melodies
gush

From the musical throat of a bird in the
bush.

Glad hymns of rejoicing the winged artist
mngs

With rapturous carols the wide woodland
rings;

My eager ears avidly strain for each note

Exultantly poured from the jubilant throat

Of bobolink, oriole, robin or thrush,

Whichever the bird that may sing in the
bush.

I covet that bird and by aid of a net

I make it a captive but quickly regret,

For it struggles and cries and I cannot with-
stand

The piteous “cheep” of the bird in my hand;

Unwilling its longing for freedom to crush,

I set it free gladly to fly to its bush.

Once more from the thicket the carol is
heard

That comes from the throat of a free, happy
bird;

Again I rejoice as the whole woodland rings

With the glorious song that the winged
artist sings;

That silly old adage I'd evermore hush

For the bird that’s worth most is the bird
in the bush.

Tourists, scientists, and nature stu-
dents visit Donaldson’s Cave in Spring
Mill state park near Mitchell,
Indiana, to see its natural en-
trance which is the largest
cave entrance in the world.
The cave contains blind ﬁsh
and insects, has two dry pas-
sages, and can be explored in
a boat. It has been used ex-
tensively by Indiana Univer~
sity for ﬁsh studies. The cave
is estimated to be more than
three million years old.

A bird hike in the early
morning, when birds may be
seen in their natural habitat,
will never be forgotten. One
such lesson out of doors is
worth many inside. Let the
spirit of discovery prevail.
Follow the hike with a Wiener
roast, egg fry, or some other
kind of out-door cooking.

OUR

DUIUB ANIJI ALS

 

Sept. 1 91,1

Strange Birds of Northern Oceans

W. J.

UFFINS; auks and auklets; mur-
P res and murrelets; dovekies and

guillemots; the very names of this
curious family of sea—divers sound
strange and far-away to most of us. Yet
to some people they are the most im-
portant birds in the world.

Thus in the Arctic, from north Green--
land eastward, the quail-sized dovekies
arrive in the spring in vast numbers.
The Eskimos, wildly excited at their
return, scoop the little black and white
birds into long-handled nets, for they
are regarded as a great delicacy in that
remote land where food is seldom over—
plentiful. Dovekies’ skins make warm
suits while their abundance means more
foxes, upon which the native economy
largely depends.

Bigger and stranger in appearance
are the puﬁins, whose grotesque bright-
colored bills suggest the exaggerated
noses of a masquerade. The feet, too, are
bright red and the pufﬁn’s pompous air
of solemn gravity adds to his oddity.
The oversize, parrot-like beak savagely
slashes the hand that explores the nest
in burrow or crevice for the single white
egg. After the breeding season the
horny covering of the bill falls off, leav-
ing it smaller and duller.

Atlantic pufﬁns have been seen in win—
ter as far south as New York and are
common on lonely British shores. Flow-
ing yellow plumes over light-colored eyes
add to the outlandish appearance of the
tufted puﬂin, often called the Old Man
of the Sea, who lives farther west and
goes as far south as California. On
northern Alaskan and Siberian coasts
the natives hail the coming of the puf—
ﬁns and catch them in nets. But ﬁsher-
men of southern Alaska have no love for

 

CRESTED AUKLETS WHOSE FORELOCKS
CURVE OVER THEIR RED BEAKS

BANKS

 

THE BRIGHT-BELLIED, SAD—EYED
PUFFIN HAS A POMPOUS AIR

the hungry Old Man of the Sea, who
dives to clean their hooks of bait.

The puﬁin stands ducklike on webbed
feet, while auks and murres rest back on
their legs. The razor-billed auk, a good-
sized bird which once abounded in the
Gulf of St. Lawrence, still congregates
in a large colony there on the Sanctu-
ary of Great Bird Rock.

Various species of auklet, with such

escriptive names as the whiskered,
paroquet and least auklet, inhabit the
western coasts and ﬂy into the ready
nets of natives in the Bering region.
The somewhat larger crested auklet.
whose forelock curves forward over his
red beak, is a special delicacy. But per—
haps the strangest of all the birds of a
group specializing in odd beaks is the
rhinoceros auklet. From the base of the
strong, arched beak a narrow, compress—
ed plate projects upward like the front
sight of a gun—or, if your imagination
is working well, the horn of a rhinoc-
eros. Ornamentation is its only appar-
ent purpose.

The murre, named perhaps for its
low, murmering call, is well known on
Atlantic as well as Paciﬁc shores. In the
nineteenth century millions of murre
eggs sold as delicacies in San Francisco-
market, until the birds became so re—
duced in numbers on the coastal islands
that the authorities stopped the prac-
tice.

On narrow rock ledges the murres sit
in rows, each incubating a single egg.
Alarmed, they turn seaward and as
white breasts replace dark backs the
sombre scene is transformed instantly.
The eggs point sharply at the small end,
apparently nature’s provision to keep
them from rolling off nestless rocks. But
when the frightened birds leave the cliffs

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

April, 191,1

 

_—_.

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

 

 

III-r

      
 

    
 

4/.
‘l"‘lfl"""Y”j'

   
 

mm numh,’

i
55:7” ‘ ) t‘ '

   

Spring Messenger

ELEANOR A. CHAFFEE

The rabbit looks from his frosty burrow,
The woodpecker from his hole,

The little gray mouse from his winter furrow
With eyes like chips of coal,

To see whether spring is yet on its way;
But only the bluebird dares

To flash like a piece of the April sky
Through the leafless trees. He wears

The color of April upon his back
And sings like an April day;

While the others shiver, “Alas, alack!”
He whistles the clouds away.

What can your group do to observe Humane Sunday, April
20, and Be Kind to Animals Week, April 21 to 26? Write
to “Our Dumb Animals” for suggestions.

How Many “C” Animals

ALFRED I. TOOKE

HP
E

L
M

 

 

 

 

 

D 0
Y A T
O C N
E A U
E R w

 

001—1030
CUQ‘FH‘WOF‘

US C

NUMBER of animals have names beginning with

the letter C, such as chimpanzee, chipmunk, cara~
bao, etc. Start at any C, move one square at a time in
any direction, and spell out the names of at least four—
teen such animals without using the same square twice
in any one name. Correct answers will be found on this
page next month.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

9
it . at?
: ;t - I ' 1 "é
a :2 2: e , ' < .4;-
.§ 15"} ' .1 __ 2;,
2. I 2 I -. 3, i \ ‘ " 3; . ~9
4 a . ‘- r ._ . v- v -. ‘2 I;
E ‘ ’ ' - . 9 3’4 ' ' \‘ \ '1". .2 - -/
r l .2 E. A. - «i,» 2 ~‘ \ \\ fig—’k- ‘5" (I’lil/Ié’le' 3 5'?
E ‘ -' S "U \\\‘ £= _.~ ~ .. i ' 2.2%... .4” ...,, x, 2' ‘ 4%., \\\ l: Ice" 5‘5 5
5_._ - § _{ r: K\\\\:ff‘ {- 4 ' 1 \‘jfﬂ' ‘/ ”(3,12, % 7 :z/ \‘a .9} 3'. ‘2‘.- i 5.,“ . 4.x ’ ‘_— I .l I ‘ \§ \&\L(\ 77 V» ‘ ; r .
E" ‘ § ’ E f 3 ,L ' , 20 '3 {K % ﬁhlllya ' 41w ,.s:.:.;::;;,:~.., // \qu i 1/
‘ . . . J‘ _ 2 2 , .47 _' ‘ - ‘ '- /, : 2‘ .-‘.\~"' M “'I ' , ﬁ "‘3 . ‘.‘ . ‘:
a = is? E ’ \“1 ..,. . y) We. \ ,x 2 ’ 7;: . » r .r- ’LQ... @gg, (“tr/2. spin
“ t 5- \ / - ( )’ I Mr ., :9 kiss a ..,»‘w 22." N) ‘ ,2».I..,~ ‘ \ \ 2,
"' "'- 3. J n.” . - g “ .,4.,f® : a L. 42.4 52:22 '1—‘l§.'"‘ [s .. ////,=.,)> (\ / ., ‘l l, ~§£ _,.’_;\— \ ,
' ' t . " » ,_, ". ,‘ {A
l ' j \ wk' 9‘ i\ ‘ \, 7 N MR xv“ \\\(r'h. ‘14., l.) ‘ H 1\. .\ NL._ A. Imb\\\\/‘-’

 

       
   

_

'11vw v EM

  
     
     

\. ..,\‘,.
.J/llliln,n,\\‘\“\>

   
  

  

 
 

     

 

 
 

 

This Antelope Makes Herself at Home

BERNARD L. KOBEL

UN VALLEY, Idaho, is a famous resort and attracts
goodly number of vacationists both winter and
summer. Perhaps one of the thrills remembered by the
vacationists (who are not used to seeing them at home)

 
   

“ANNIE” WALKS INDOORS TO HAVE HER
PICTURE TAKEN

is the sight of the six tame antelope that browse about
the city and are friends with all the people there. In fact,
about the easiest way to start a fight with a citizen is to
attempt to abuse one of these animals.

To see how tame they are, one need only to look at this
picture. The scene is laid in the Challenge Inn, a hotel
and camera shop operated by Mrs. L. R. Arnold who is
shown holding a camera, taking the photograph of the
animal. The antelope is known as “Annie.” She is the
tamest of the group of her kind. Outside a bashful boy
friend stands guard to see that Annie gets along all right
in there. Maybe he is thinking to himself that fools rush
in Where angels fail and fear to tread, or maybe he is
merely living up to the Boy Scout theory of “Safety,
ﬁrst.”

 




 

 

_._.,(#A

 

 

.5
3s .

 

Jane, 1941

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel
JOSEPH MOONEY, Treasurer’s Assistant

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President and Ch. Fi-
nance Com., United Shoe Machinery Corporation

CHARLES E. SPENCER, JR., President, First National
Bank of Boston
Prosecuting Officers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100

L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Ofﬁcer

HARRY L. ALLEN HOWARD WILLAND
HARVEY R. FULLER J. ROBERT SMITH

County Prosecuting Officers

Middlesex and Norfolk
Eastern Essex
Western Essex
Western Essex

HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston
FRED T. VICKERS, Wenham
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen
JOSEPH E. HASWELL, Methuen
FRED F. HALL, Springﬁeld

Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
CHARLES E. BROWN, Attleboro, Bristol and Plymouth
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis

Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket

T. KING HASWELL, Pittsﬁeld Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen
W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Other Small Animal Shelters of M. S. P. C A.
Boston, 170-184 Longwood Avenue
Springﬁeld, 53-57 Bliss Street ‘
Pittsﬁeld, 224 Cheshire Road
Attleboro, 3 Commonwealth Avenue
Hyannis, State Road, Rte. 28, Centerville
Wenham, Cherry Street

APRIL REPORT OF THE OFFICERS OF
THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.,
WITH HEADQUARTERS AT BOSTON,
METHUEN, SPRINGFIELD, PITTSFIELD,
ATTLEBORO, WENHAM, HYANNIS, WOR-
CESTER, FITCHBURG, NORTHAMPTON,
HAVERHILL, HOLYOKE, ATHOL, TAUN-
TON, COVERING THE ENTIRE STATE

Miles traveled by humane officers . . 17,561
Cases investigated ............. 305
Animals examined ............. 5,972
Animals placed in homes ........ 267
Lost animals restored to owners. . 77
Number of prosecutions ........ 5
Number of convictions ......... 4
Horses taken from work ....... 16
Horses humanely put to sleep . . . . 43

Small animals humanely put to sleep 2,246

Horse auctions attended ........ 13
Stockyards and Abattoirs

Animals inspected ............. 59,987
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely

put to sleep ................ 96

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals

184 Longwood Avenue. Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

E. F. SCHROEDER, D.V.M., Chief of Staff
R. H. SCHNEIDER, V.M.D., Asst. Chief
G. B. SCHNELLE, V.M.D.

T. O. MUNSON, V.M.D.
C. L. BLAKELY, V.M.D.
M. S. ARLEIN, D.V.M.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springﬁeld Branch

Telephone 4-7355
53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.

Veterinarians
A. R. EVANS, V.M.D. H. L. SMEAD, D.V.M.

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR APRIL
At 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

Cases entered in Hospital .......... 777
Cases entered in Dispensary ....... 1,720
Operations ....................... 411

At Springﬁeld Branch, 53 Bliss Street

Cases entered in Hospital .......... 191
Cases entered in Dispensary ....... 629
Operations ....................... 113

At Attleboro Clinic, 3 Commonwealth Ave.

Cases entered ..................... 74
Totals
Hospital cases since opening, Mar.
1, 1915 ....................... 193,733
Dispensary Cases ............... 488,299
Total .............. 682,032

Branches and Auxiliaries
MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Taunton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—MRS.
HOWARD F. WOODWARD, Pres.; MRS. THos. H. CAS-
WELL, Sec.

Northampton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—MRS.
F. E. DOW, Pres.; MISS JANE BIGELOW, Treas.

Great Barrington Branch of Mass. S). P. C. A.—
MRS. ROBERT MAGRUDER, Pres.; MRS. DONALD WORTH-
INGTON, Treas.

Holyoke Branch of Mass. S. I’. C. A.-—-MRS. AARON
C. BAGG, Pres.; MRS. ROBERT E. NEWCOMB, Treas.

Springfield Branch Auxiliary—MRS. CARLTON H.
GARINGER, Pres.; MRS. RICHARD A. BOOTH, Treas.
Second Thursday.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary—MRS. RICHARD S.
TAYLOR, Pres.; MRS. JOHN HAMILTON CLARKE, Treas.

Our Mr. Mooney

The Massachusetts Society for the
Prevention Of Cruelty to Animals, the
Animal Rescue League, and all the hu-
mane people Of the State, owe much to
Mr. Joseph Mooney, assistant to our
treasurer, for the splendid work he did
in helping defeat Senate Bill 602, of
which the story is told on page 110.

Endowed stalls and kennels are
needed in the Angell Memorial Animal
Hospital. Payments of thirty-ﬁve dol-
lars for a kennel or seventy-ﬁve dollars
for a stall Will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name.

Page 111

Veterinarian Column

1. Question: I have a chow dog that
has a thick, heavy coat. Would he be
more comfortable if I had him clipped
this summer?

Answer: A dog’s coat acts as an insu-
lator, both against heat and cold. If a
thick, heavy coat is removed and the ani-
mal allowed to stay out in the hot sun,
he may suffer seriously as a result. A
close clip is inadvisable with dogs having
a thick, heavy coat. Chow dogs are sel-
dom clipped except upon injury or in the
treatment of some diseases.

2. Question: My dog, an eight-year-
old poodle, seems to be troubled with
constipation. This occurs about every six
weeks or so. What can I do to help him?

Answer: In older dogs, a chronic con-
stipation sometimes does occur. What
your dog needs is a mild laxative, one
that will lubricate the intestine and ease
the passage of its contents. Mineral Oil
is best adapted to this purpose. Do not
use castor oil as its action is too Violent
and it may be very harmful.

3. Question: I have just purchased a
female puppy eight weeks Old. How soon
can I have her spayed?

Answer: The most desirable time to
spay a dog is when she is around ﬁve
months old. It should not be done under
four months of age, and it is less serious
when done prior to her ﬁrst heat period.

4. Question: My cat has a swollen
front paw that has bothered him for the
last three days. Now he won’t eat. What
can I do to relieve him?

Answer: It is likely the trouble is due
to an infected wound with subsequent
abscess formation. An infection of this
sort usually requires surgical treatment;
therefore, your veterinarian should be
consulted. Such an infection is usually
accompanied by a generalized toxemia or
poisoning, and this would account for the
loss of appetite.

5. Question: I have a ten-year-old
male cat. He has always been healthy
until recently. Now he doesn’t seem to
want to eat. He will sniff his favorite
foods, start to eat, cry, and walk away.
He also has a bad odor about his mouth.
What could be the trouble?

Answer: These symptoms indicate
trouble usually with the teeth and gums.
It is also possible there is some foreign
body caught in the mouth or throat. At
any rate, the trouble is serious enough to
require the attention of your veteri—
narian who can examine the cat and ﬁnd
the seat of the trouble. It may be due to
a collection of tartar on the teeth, which,
if in excess, will cause an inﬂammation
of the gums; it may be an abscessed
tooth; or it may be the result of some
injury and infection in the gums.

L. H. S., Veterinary Dept.,
Angell Animal Hospital

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 148

The Cardinal

Christine Park Hankinson

Like a pomegranate blossom atilt in the
breeze,

Where the sky and the foliage blend,

He strikes up his tune with the greatest of
ease,

And sings his sweet song to the end;

And then he repeats every lyrical note;

Then darts to a coveted limb.

Oh, lam enamored of bird, voice, and coat,

And the perfect composure of him.

Bright, fleeting cardinal, Beauty's own child,
Vested in feathers of flame,

Trilling, and turning, and then running wild,
And madly repeating the same:

Thank you for wearing your colorful vest,
And singing your masterful lay.

Thank you for coming so iauntily dressed.
The world looks much brighter today.

The Armored Nest

PAUL HADLEY

HIS mother brown thrasher evidently

tried to make her nest impreg'nable,
for not only was it located in a fork of
that most vicious of all trees, the T-horn
locust, but the nest itself was built al-
most entirely of the huge thorns. The
effectiveness of this defense can be at-
tested by the photographer, Who labored
for a half hour at the expense of several
dozen thorn pricks to get into position
to make this picture.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Aug. 1941

The Magnificent Wild Goose

HENRY H. GRAHAM

the edge of a great Idaho marsh

when he called my attention to a
ﬂock of wild Canadian honkers that were
spreading their Wings and settling to rest
just out of sight behind some tall cat-
tails. At his suggestion, We crept
through the tules to watch the big geese.
There were about a dozen of them.

For perhaps ﬁve minutes we observed
them feeding. Then I inadvertently
made a noise in the reeds and a Wild
exodus began, the birds rising against
the Wind, as is their custom.

In all the realm of wild life there is
probably no grander or more majestic
bird than the Wild goose—the genuine
Canadian honker, which is so-called be-
cause of the honking noise he makes at
times. Exceedingly wary, he is very dif-
ﬁcult to approach. Some member of the
ﬂock is always on guard. The long neck
and sharp eyes of the sentinel quickly
detect the presence of danger.

Perhaps the strangest thing about the
wild goose is the migration. Every fall,
about the time the weather turns cold
and snow begins to ﬂy, the birds congre—
gate preparatory to ﬂying southward to
a warmer climate. All of us have seen
enormous ﬂocks of migrating geese. The
birds invariably travel in a V—shaped
formation with a gander at the helm.
The male geese consider it a great honor

&~ FRIEND and I were driving along

 

OF LONG SHARP THORNS

NEST OF BROWN THRASHER BUILT ALMOST ENTIRELY

 

OF A HONEY LOCUST TREE

to lead the ﬂock and battles often ensue
for this privilege with the stronger can—
didate winning. The birds ﬂy for hours
at a time, pausing at intervals to feed on
the grass on lake and river bottoms and
in grain ﬁelds.

Nesting is done during the late spring
and early summer months in the north
country. Here the little goslings are
born and cared for until able to shift
for themselves. The wild goose, like the
eagle, mates for life and the gander jeal-
ously guards the young ones, threaten—
ing with his beak everything that might
be considered an enemy, regardless of
size. A gander can and often does put
up a plucky ﬁght against larger foes and
will battle to the death if need be to pro-
tect his home and loved ones.

Flocks of geese cruising through the
air offer a majestic picture that never
fails to thrill the lover of Wild life. When
alighting on the surface of some pond or
stream the birds spread their powerful
wings and come to rest with quite a
splash. The rise from water is slow and
somewhat ungainly, as is the ﬂight, but
geese can cover a lot of territory in
a day.

Canadian honkers average ten or
twelve pounds in weight When full
grown. Like ducks they are clumsy on
land though very much at home in the
water. The Canada goose is the species
best known in the western hemisphere,
although other kinds such as the snow
goose and Brant are fairly common in
many sections. Geese are quite plentiful
in Europe and in South America. The
pigeon goose is native to Australia and
the gray goose makes its home chieﬂy in
Europe and northern Asia. There are
several other varieties such as the lesser
snow goose and Richardson’s goose.

In the Wilderness
Nellie Goode'

I love to think about the time the Master
long ago

Left for a space the human paths He trav-
eled here below,

Forsook the touch of human lives that He
was wont to bless,

And dwelt among the humbler folk within
the wilderness.

Their lives, like His, had sinless been; they
did not feel afraid.

He knew their thoughts and language, those
wild creatures He had made.

And when they saw Him troubled, though
they might not understand,

Perhaps they nestled close to Him, and
gently kissed His hand.




 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 20!;

Deer in the Forest
G. Cardinal Le Gros

The chase is over, but the day was long:
A tearful day of unfamiliar sounds.
Somewhere he hears the huntsman’s careless
song,
And everywhere the baying ot the hounds.

He stands within the forest, still as stone.
His tiny hoots are rooted in the sod.

He waits the final moment all alone,
Gazing into the stricken eyes of God.

Then the Bishop Slept

OU and I cannot end this war or

bring peace to a world threatened
with universal disaster, but we can refuse
to let anxiety and fear rob our nights of
sleep and darken our days with despair.
We can hope and pray and pay our taxes
and, with gratitude for living in this
land and not across the sea, take what
comfort and pleasure life has to offer,
and greet our friends with a smile
whether we feel like it or not.

It was a ﬁne old Bishop, who, years
ago, worrying his heart over what
seemed to him the evils of a doomed
world, tossing on his bed at midnight,
thought he heard the Lord say, “Go to
sleep, Bishop, I’ll sit up the rest of the
night.”

Insect life is enormous. Entomologists
have described 675,000 species in the
United States alone. It is estimated
there are more than 2,500,000 kinds of
insects in the world.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Nov. 1941

The Appalling Toll of Animal Life

LEE R. HAYDEN

ITHOUT considering our for—
Weign policy, we are, in a sense,

at war. Six million Americans
with guns are in hot pursuit of the
“enemy”—game birds and animals. We
broke off diplomatic relations on October
1. Ever since, the ominous thunder of
gunﬁre has roared over the land.

Let no one righteously deny that
America is an aggressor nation. From
the time our ancestors dispersed the
Indians from their native haunts, we
have harried and slaughtered the wild
creatures of the woods. We say we have
been the “victims of aggression.” It is
argued that the pheasants injure the
farmers’ crops and the bears wantonly
attack garbage pits. But don’t the
mourning doves eat pesky weed seeds?
What is our gratitude? We shoot them
oﬁ telephone poles for nearly two months
every year. Bob—white serenades us with
his cheery song during the mating sea—
son, but when in the autumn he becomes
exhausted from these duties, we cheer—
fully massacre him and his family as
they ﬂutter about the hedgerow.

Can we be sincerely angry about
“ﬂaunting the rights of minorities?”
The poor old wood duck is certainly a
sad minority in the duck tribe. Many
Americans have never even seen one. Yet
authorities have given the command to
“shoot!” So, let‘the minorities look to
their wings. The wood duck and his

wild friends have never heard about the

 

S. Bureau, Biological Survey

, U.
QUAIL ON NEST, TAKEN JUST BEFORE SUNRISE

word sport, of course. They don’t
know that those funny-looking creatures
with hip boots and modern artillery
really aren’t mad at them. Heavens, no!
They just want to have some fun. If too
many ducks, pheasants or grouse suc-
cumb in this year’s offensive, the gentle-
men with guns will strive to see that
the breed is kept going by artiﬁcial
restoration. They’ll even breed them in
incubators. This doesn’t stem from any
deep-seated interest in our natural fau-
na, but simply so there will be an “ene-
my” to declare a war against next year.

Much talk has been occasioned by
what we indignantly refer to as “viola-
tion of the rights of neutrals.” Now, it
cannot be denied that the songbirds and
all other non-game species are very
deﬁnitely the neutrals in our autumnal
warfare. Yet anyone who has been in
the ﬁeld at the height of the cannonad~
ing knows that gulls, shore birds, even
robins do not escape the ﬁre of those
whose quarry is anything that is so in-
discreet as to move.

We in the good old U. S. A. raise our
hands in horror at the thought of Eu-
rope’s racial persecution. Yet what are
the birds of prey and the ﬁsh—eating
birds but persecuted races of wild life?
The hawks and owls occasionally eat a
few game birds, so we have labeled them
“bird-killers” and have invented exag-
gerated stories about their capacity. It
is necessary to understand that if the
birds of prey kill game birds in order
to keep alive, such procedure very deﬁ-
nitely is not sport. Sport consists of
human beings killing game birds or ani-
mals just for the fun of it. When such
a deﬁnition is comprehended, it can be
seen that the graceful ﬁsh—eating birds
have no place in our national economy.
And all bcause they interfere with the
greedy ambitions of those more powerful
than themselves.

Even in the most bitter warfare be—
tween humans, agencies of mercy con-
tinue to function. But there is no Red
Cross for the wounded ducks and deer.
The hunter merely curses when one
“gets away.” Seldom does he ponder
upon the aftermath of anguish he has
caused. Crippled by shells from gunners
more enthusiastic than accurate, the
wounded victims crawl away into inac—
cessible swamps to wait for death
through torture-ridden days of suffer-
1ng. ,

Man’s inhumanity to man is stupen-
dous. But his inhumanity to the innocent
creatures of the wild is appalling. It
prompts one to wonder if there can ever
be peace among men as long as our lust
for killing is rekindled each autumn.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Sept. 191,1

they usually send a shower of eggs down
to destruction.

There are several interesting types of
murrelet while the guillemot, known as
the sea pigeon because of its trim and
dovelike form, is a common bird of the
sea from Maine to northern Greenland.

All of these northern sea divers are
true mariners, living, feeding and sleep-
ing for much of the year on the open
ocean. Only in the breeding season do
they commonly dwell on land. Diving
deeply for food, their vital organs have
special bone coverings for protection
against the heavy pressure of saltwater.
Wing's, as well as feet, work below the
surface, the birds literally ﬂying through
the water.

Only in the far north, where human
enemies are comparatively few, can the
auks and their kind maintain themselves
in large numbers without special pro-
tection. The United States—Canadian
Migratory Birds Act provides this to an
ever-increasing extent. The pompous
puﬂin and other colorful members of his
family are worth saving from the fate
of their big cousin, the great auk. This
.ﬂightless species was wiped out by
man’s greed a century ago.

Melon seeds may easily be washed,
dried, and stored for winter feeding of
birds. Cardinals and several other larger
birds enjoy them, but they must be
cracked for the smaller birds.

Marine Studios, Marineland, Fla.

THE FRIENDLY PENGUIN

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

A Pen of Penguins
ALICE GILBERT DUFFILL

HERE is a pen of friendly penguins

at the world’s largest aquarium at
Marineland near St. Augustine, Florida.
This aquarium is not like other aquari—
ums that keep the ﬁsh in separate glass
tanks according to their kind. Here the
ﬁsh of all species swim freely together
in two mammoth Open concrete tanks,
much as they do in the ocean. For this
reason the aquarium is often called an
oceanarium.

In the tanks are coral gardens and
rock grottoes and even the hull of an old
ship. These make excellent hiding places
for the small ﬁsh when chased by the
larger ones. The ﬁsh are caught in the
near-by ocean by the “Porpoise,” a boat
belonging to the aquarium. Besides the
common varieties there are also sharks,
porpoises, great sea turtles, swordﬁsh,
sawﬁsh, angel ﬁsh, cowﬁsh, doctor fish,
and many rainbow-colored tropicals.
They are fed a balanced ration of
ground—up ﬁsh and seaweed and fare well
in their new home.

The penguins live in a pen fenced in
with wire and covered with a canvas top
to keep off the hot sun. They were
brought to the aquarium all the way
from the southernmost part of South
America. They have become accustomed
to their new home and are quite tame.
Forgotten are the jolly
times they once had slid—
ing down an icy bank or
riding about on a huge
cake of ice. Instead, they
have a shower bath where

on hot days they may
splash to their hearts’
content. They are not al—

lowed to catch ﬁsh in the
aquarium, but when the
di n n e r bell rings they
hurry to take the ﬁsh from
the attendant’s hand.

The many tourists who
visit the aquarium ﬁnd the
penguins one of the chief
attractions. T h e s e droll
birds look for all the world
like pompous old gentle-
men in dress suits and red
rubbers as they waddle
sedately about or bow and
talk to each other in a most
courtly manner.

The penguins may justly
be called wonderful birds,
and they are undoubtedly
of very ancient descent.
For countless generations
the sea has been their
home and refuge.

Page 16:;

The Right Name

NORMAN C. SCHLICHTER

0F all the birds none has a more ap-

propriate name than the chimney
swift. Swift? I’ll say he is, for he has
been timed when going one hundred
miles an hour. Some bird students think
that the duck hawk is the only bird that
can ﬂy faster than the swift.

Migration time always reminds me
that no one has found out where this
bird winters. Thousands of swifts have
been banded before they started off for
their winter homes by our Biological
Survey experts but not one band has
ever been returned or reported to the
Survey.

In November great ﬂocks of swifts
can be seen in Florida and lower Geor-
gia for a day or two, but in another day
or two they vanish into the unknown.
An old superstition in the lower South
is that they dive into the mud for the
winter.

The use of chimneys as nesting and
sleeping places is an old custom of these
birds. They use hollow trees when they
can’t ﬁnd chimneys.

Audubon reported counting nine thou-
sand swifts on one old tree in Kentucky.
Just how he made his count I can’t im-
agine, but his word is almost law in mat-
ters of bird knowledge. They certainly
do ﬂock together in great masses, and
it is amazing how many of them can
hang up in one chimney. “Hang up”
the right term for they sleep literally
hanging on to chimney walls. There are
sharp tips to their wings that help them
to do this. These remind us of the sharp
heel spurs which telephone and" electric
light linemen use to hold fast to poles
when they work high up on them.

These interesting birds never light on
the ground or on low bushes, but only
on their nesting trees or chimneys. It
has been estimated that they cruise
about a thousand miles a day in search
of food. Even their nest materials are
secured by striking dead branches off
trees with their feet or bills while in
ﬂight. All their courting, too, is done in
mid-air!

The males take their turns in helping
to hatch the four or six eggs in the nests
which are also hung up against the
chimney walls. The nest sticks are glued
together by a secretion from the birds’
mouths.

Swifts are very useful birds, since
they live entirely on insects, many of
which are harmful to vegetation.

Please remember the Massachusetts
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals when making your will. See
last page for details about annuities
and proper forms of bequests.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Sept. 1941

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 165

Hundreds of Photographs Received in Prize Contest

WINNER OF THIRD PRIZE, $5, CASH
Robert Neiswinter, Minersville, Pennsylvania

Dog’s head, H. J. Schell, Fresno, Cali—
fornia.

“Breakfast” (two cats), L. W. Urban,
City Island, New York.

“Miss Cynthia” (cat), Mrs. Porter W.
Burger, Dallas Center, Iowa.

“Nippy” (cat), Irene Lois Cowan,
Kansas City, Missouri.

“A Study in Expression” (cats), C.
V. Crall, Grafton, West Virginia.

Dog, Mrs. Arthur Kent, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania.

Dog’s head, Dr. 0. C. Posner, Brook-
lyn, New York.

“Mother Love” (cat and kitten), Da-
vid Anderson, Ogden, Utah.

Child with kittens, America Grasso,
Chicago, Illinois.

Congratulations to all the winners and
sincere thanks to each participant
whether a winner or not!

We have been pleased to offer cash
payments for quite a number of pictures
which were entered in the contest but
which did not win a prize.

A six months’ subscription to Our
Dumb Animals, beginning with the Aug-
ust number, is being sent to all partici-
pants who provided return postage for
their offerings.

Lines on the Death of a
Favorite Cat
Kay McQueeney

’Twas there he used to stretch himself,
Contented, by the fire,

And watch with solemn, wise cat's eyes,
The flames leap high, and higher;

He used to purr with lazy joy,
And blink his eyes at me,

And, sometimes, just to be caressed,
He’d leap upon my knee.

At times, when in a playful mood,
He'd frisk and frolic there,

And he had such a pretty grace,
His motions such an air

Of charm and dignity at once,
You could not but admire.

Indeed, in singing praise of him,
I’m sure I'd never tire.

Alas, he’s gone. But whence? Or where?
I'm childish, I’ll admit.

The house seems empty now, and dark,
Though all the lamps are lit.

There’s something warm and cozy gone,
The hearth is all forlorn,

And so—you'll understand, I know—
I cannot help but mourn.

 

“OBSERVATION,” WINNER OF FOURTH PRIZE, $3, CASH
A. Raety, Petersburg, Virginia

Polly of the Zoo

Leslie Clare Manchester

You try the bars of your prison;
You climb, you cling and you call!
You greet me there at the grating;
You love me best of all!

But oft in the line of faces

In the midst of the pressing throng,
You dream of jungle places

And the wild wood's waking song!

Ah, yes, you’re back in the shadow
Of the palm tree’s towering head;
You're back in the warmth of tropics
With long vines blooming red!

You list to your mate on the borders
Of a lulling low lagoon

As a mist of shimmering silver
Comes up with the rising moon!

You'd leave the hand that fondles;
The voice that speaks your name!
You'd go from the throng unending;
From bars of prison shame!

You’d build a nest in the jungle
Where bright acacias are;

You'd feast on the fragrant guava
And croon to the evening star!

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Page 11!,

“Nothing but a Dog”

Bobbie Gardner

“It's nothing but a dog," they say;
”Why, never have we seen

A body treat a beast so fine!
You’d think it was a queen!"

Nothing but a dog—it's true,
Who’s never stooped to lies,
Or felt himself too good for me—

Or too profoundly wise.

Why, the day he came and scratched my
door,
A dirty little pup,
I knew I’d waited just for him,
I quickly picked him up.

“Nothing but a dog,” they cry,
To exercise their lungs,

But—God be thanked—he wags his tail
The while they wag their tongues!

To him the temple doors are closed,
And yet no earthly creed

Could make a finer dog of him,
Or better friend in need.

“Nothing but a dog," they say,
Well, I’ll admit it’s so,

But I’d rather have that dog around
Than lots of folks I know.

Beaver in the Moonlight

LOUIS CORKILL

NINETY—FIVE per cent pelts and
ﬁve per cent damage.” The deputy
game warden grinned at me as he spoke
and I knew that he was telling the truth.
I had applied to the state for a permit to
trap beaver and he had come to look over
the premises. There were ten dams in the
creek which ran through the entire
length of the ranch, but of only three
could it be said that damage was being
done. A small patch of hay-land was
under water. The other seven were ﬂood—
ing only rocky, uncultivated ground.

“I’ll recommend a permit for eight,”
he said and left. It was late August and
trapping wouldn’t start until November.

That night found me, armed with a
ﬂashlight, crouching behind a clump of
willows near one of the largest dams.
The game warden’s words had set me
thinking and I wanted to see these water
folk at work. Although the moon was
full and directly overhead, the dense
masses of Willows were in darkness, and
from this darkness on the opposite bank
the scissor-like “click click” of teeth cut-
ting willows told me that the colony was
already at work. Occasionally, dark ob-
jects would slide down the bank into the
water and they resembled little silver
ships as they sailed along in the moon-
light, carrying their willows to the dam.

OUR DUMB

ANIMALS

June, 191,1

 

“BOY” AND HIS MASTER HAVE A FRIENDLY SHAKE

 

One that I surmised to be the “Master
of the House of Beaver” did no cutting
but swam from cutting ground to dam
and back again with each branch-bearer,
apparently supervising the placing of the
willows; building the dam a little higher;
providing a few more inches of security
under the ice when winter struck; send-
ing the water a few inches further in
the meadow. He was a big fellow, I knew
by the wake he left, but I didn’t realize
how big he really was until he climbed
out on the dam and sat upright. He must
have weighed ﬁfty pounds.

Curious to see what his reaction would
be to a ﬂashlight I pressed the button.
His little eyes shone like ﬁery red coals
but he remained motionless, evidently
thinking that it was the moonlight—just
a little more moonlight. It was then that
I saw he was a cripple. His right front
foot was off near the shoulder—the Vic-
tim of a trap.

A trapper has only a feeling of dis-
appointment when he ﬁnds a foot in one
of his traps. He thinks only of the bit of
loose change that has slipped through
his ﬁngers. He cusses a bit, tosses the
foot into the water and resets.

“Here,” I thought, is a creature that
has done no harm—no intentional harm
—and he is going through life crippled,
and all because his pelt is in demand;
all because of man’s love of the ﬁlthy
dollar. '

The number four Newhouses (beaver
traps) hanging in the blacksmith shop
were not taken down that year, nor have
they been taken down since. I might lose
a few hundred pounds of hay; perhaps,
in the course of time, a few tons; but the
colony will not be disturbed.

Ancient cave pictographs offer ample
proof that dogs have been kept in domes-
tication by man since prehistoric times.
The dog, generally considered man’s
best friend, is thought to have descended
from a wolf of the genus Canis.

“Boy,” an Unusual. Dog

ELIZABETH E. BARNES

HIS is “Boy.” {Though the most ami—

able and politic of creatures, he
spends much of his time in the doghouse.
To Boy this is no cause for shame, but
rather an occasion for smiles and hand-
shakes. For his particular doghouse is
one especially constructed for his com-
fort. Fully insulated against heat and
cold, ventilated in the latest scientiﬁc
manner, and padded to suit even his
luxury-loving tastes, Boy’s house is a
canine palace on wheels.

Boy is a widely traveled character.
With his master, the Rev. Stanley Nel—
son, who is pastor of Calvary Baptist
Church, Kansas City, Kansas, Boy has
journeyed from coast to coast, and from
the Great Lakes to the Gulf. Last sum-
mer he vacationed in Minnesota, climax-
ing the trip with a tour of the West.

Boy has spent four years in college,
driving with his master each day to
William Jewell College of Liberty, Mo.,
and receiving there his bachelor’s degree
last spring.

As a properly reared minister’s dog,
Boy attends church services regularly,
slumbering mostly but with a wary eye
toward the clock. He times the proceed-
ings with precision, and should the ser-
mon progress one minute beyond the
allotted time, Boy announces his rebel-
lion in no soft tones.

Boy’s constant companion is “K0 K0,”
a young tomcat. They parry blows and
nip each other in“, perfect harmony, ex-
cept when K0 K0 has to fend oﬂ’ a little
too much familiarity with a lightning
thrust of a Vicious paw.

“Aristotle believed that the soul of
infants differed in no respect from that
of animals, and that all animals present
traces of their moral disposition, though
these distinctions are more marked in
man.”

 

 




 

 

 

Page 112

   
 
   
 

  

GOD,
PEACE ON EARTH,
KINDNESS, JUSTICE
AND MERCY 'ro
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

7
4
m
2

   
  
   
  

Founded by Geo. T. Angell Incorporated 1889

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Officers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY& STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President and Ch. Fi-
ance Com., United Shoe Machinery Corporation

CHARLES E. SPENCER, JR., President, First National
Bank of Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

E. J. H. Escobar ,,,,,,,,,,,,,, Colombia
Luis Pareja Cornejo ,,,,,,,,,,,, Ecuador
Charles A. Williams ,,,,,,,,,,,, France
Leonard T. Hawksley ,,,,,,,,,, Italy

C. Batra .................. India
Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe ,,,,,,,, Japan
Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ,,,,,, Madeira
Dr. A. T. Ishkanian ,,,,,,,,,,,, Mexico
Mrs. Alice W. Manning ,,,,,,,,, Turkey

Humane Press Bureau

-——-———— -————— Secretary

180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Field Workers of the Society
Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Illinois
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, South Carolina
Rev. R. E. Grifﬁth, De Land, Florida

Field Representative
Dr. Wm. F. H. Wentzel, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES O'F FIELD
WORKERS FOR APRIL, 1941

Number of Bands of Mercy formed, 869
Number of addresses made, 225
Number of persons in audiences, 38,316

Retired Workers’ Fund

E are receiving gifts to the Ameri-

can Humane Education Society as a
trust fund, the interest to be used for the
beneﬁt of ﬁeld missionaries and others who
have spent their lives in promoting humane
education. Already several cases have come
to our attention and are being relieved in
this way. We will welcome your contribu-
tion to this fund.

Please make checks payable to Albert A.
Pollard, Treasurer, American Humane Edu-
cation Society, 180 Longwood Avenue, Bos-
ton, and specify that the amount con-

tributed is for the Humane Education
Trust Fund.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

June, 1941

 

ROAD SCENE IN IRELAND

This little picture tells the story of the only means of transportation in
sections of Ireland of peat from the bogs, and potatoes on their way to market.

 

New Law in New Mexico

We have been advised that both the
New Mexico House and the Senate have
passed the following:

AN ACT

Requiring the State Board of Education
to establish a course ,of Humane Edu-
cation in the public schools in the
State of New Mexico.

Be It Enacted by the Legislature of the
State of New Mexico:

Section 1. The State Board of Educa-
tion shall prescribe and cause to be
taught in the public schools in the State
of New Mexico a course of humane edu-
cation such as, in the opinion of the said
board of education and the superintend-
ent of public instruction, will educate
and train the pupils of said schools in
the humane treatment of dumb animals
and other subjects calculated to develop
in the minds of the pupils a spirit of
kindness, humanity, and tolerance.

The English Dog

He is having a tough time. Serious as
the shortage of food has been for Eng-
lish men, women and children, it has
been much more serious for the unfortu—
nate dog. Here is a recipe for dog food,
taken from The Dogs’ Bulletin, the jour—
nal of the National Canine Defence
League:

“Wash and cut up peels of root vege-
tables and outer leaves of greens; stew
gently in enough water to cover until
tender; the addition of a bone or two, or
a lump of dripping, is an improvement.
Add enough coarse oatmeal to thicken,

and stir well for a minute or so over
the ﬁre.”

Over 100,000 people have already writ-
ten for the recipe and are trying to keep
their four—footed friend, the dog, from
too much hunger.

Big Poster Contest Marks
Humane Week

(Continued from page 107)

the annual outdoor May fete at the Dun-
bar High school in Lufkin. The principal
of the George W. Carver School in Gal—
veston distributed literature in all the
rooms, which were decorated with ani-
mal pictures, put appropriate mottoes on
the blackboards, had several teachers
give humane talks, and used Band of
Mercy buttons as an incentive for kind-
ness. Mr. Barnwell preached a humane
sermon in two of the Fort Worth
churches.

Week Proclaimed in New Mexico»

Governor Miles of New Mexico issued
a proclamation in which he used these
encouraging words: “We ﬁnd that the
greatest educators, statesmen and church—
men, in fact all our serious-minded men
and women throughout the nation, are
urging humane education. Also, it is
shown that in every community where
humane education has been tried, the
criminal record has been lowered. It is
clear, therefore, that the teaching of
justice, mercy, kindness and fair play to
all living creatures will have a beneﬁcial
effect upon community and society.”

Please remember the American Hu-
mane Education Society, Boston, in
your will.

 




 

 

 

 

 

Page 130

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the ﬁrst Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Office: 180 Longwood Av-
enue, Boston, Mass., to which all communications
should be addressed.

Dr. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

GUY RICHARDSON, Editor
WILLIAM M. MORRILL, Assistant

 

JULY, 1941

 

FOR TERMS, see back cover.

AGENTS, to take orders for Our Dumb .Animals,
are wanted everywhere. Liberal commisswns are
offered.

EDITORS of all periodicals who receive this pub-
lication this month are invited to reprint any of the
articles with or without credit.

MANUSCRIPTS relating to animals, particularly
prose articles of about 300 words, are solicited. We
do not wish to consider prose manuscripts longer

than 500 words nor verse in excess of twenty-four

lines. The shorter the better. All manuscripts should
be typewritten and an addressed envelope with full
return postage enclosed With each offering.

 

 

It’s the Old, Old Story

VER and over again we hear, “Why

give any money to the Massachusetts
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals? That’s a rich organization.
They don’t need it.” What is the an—
swer? This:

We gladly and gratefully grant that
our invested funds would seem to many
smaller charitable organizations a gen-
erous amount. We must believe it is
what it is because of the public’s conﬁ-
dence in the management of our two
Societies and the value of the work they
are doing, and also in the three widely-
known ﬁnancial Trustees who for years
have so conservatively and successfully
invested and reinvested their securities.
Nearly seventy-ﬁve years of recognized
public service, it would seem, has war-
ranted this conﬁdence and the contribu-
tions received.

Suppose your expenses for carrying
on any great, far-reaching charity, such
as protecting hundreds of thousands of
unfortunate animals from man’s cruelty,
gathering through the American Hu—
mane Education Society at least seven
million children into small humane
groups in the schools of the land, awak-
ening and fostering in the hearts of
these children the principles of kind-
ness, justice, compassion toward all sen—
tient life, human and sub-human, and so
building up a citizenship worthy a na-
tion’s honor—suppose your expenses in
doing this, carefully guarded against
extravagance in every way, demand a
given sum.

Then suppose all your invested funds
——that is, your real riches, much of
which are limited to the use of the inter-
est only—furnished only sixty-two per
cent of your annual expenses. How
would you get the other thirty-eight per

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

cent? You would have to solicit it from
your friends, from all the humane people
you could reach by letter or personal
appeal, and from any moneys given in
return for services rendered. The fact
also has to be faced that interest rates
today on safely—invested funds are rang-
ing scarcely half what they were some
years ago.

How long Would any great business or
industry live if it received from its sales,
its total income, only sixty-two per cent
of its expenses? Either it would go into
bankruptcy or be compelled to discharge
many of its employees and cut its pro-
duction till its sales at least equalled its
expenses.

Year by year, in addition to expenses
connected with work of the two Societies
in the Commonwealth and in other
states, there is a deﬁcit of approximately
$40,000 in our Boston and Springﬁeld

Hospitals because of the services ren- .
dered for which we receive no compen--

sation. . ~ »

The work the two Societies have done,
are doing andplan to do in ever-increas-
ing service to life’s lowlier children and
to the building of a ﬁner citizenship for
the future,“is the ground for their con-
stant appeal to those who do justly and
love mercy.

The Exhibition of Horses with
Docked or Set-Up Tails

at Fairs

QUE readers already know that the

Humane Societies of Massachusetts
secured recently the defeat of a Bill in
the Legislature which would have per-
mitted the showing of horses with
docked or set-up tails for a period of
ﬁve more years in this Commonwealth.
Had this Bill prevailed it would really
have annulled the Bill against this prac-
tice which was secured in 1934.

A letter from the Massachusetts
Horse Show Council to one of the Sena-
tors who favored the passage of the de-
feated Bill, says that “the Massachu-
setts Society for the Prevention of Cru-
elty to Animals pledged to secure simi-
lar legislation against exhibiting horses
with set—up or docked tails in enough
other states effectively to eliminate the
practice.”* Whatever can be done by our
Society, through correspondence or any
other reasonable means, to secure such
legislation in other states the Horse
Show Council may be sure will be done.

The letter to which we have referred
also says that “some shows have indi-
cated that they plan to continue their
programs without change, and to wel-
come the exhibition of horses with set-
up tails on the theory that no regular
law enforcement oﬁ‘icer could identify
a set-up tail.” Just what is meant by

July, 191,1

those words we are not certain. We do
know, however, that any exhibitor of a
horse with a set-up or docked tail Will
have to appear, according to law, at the
show or exhibition with a certiﬁcate
sworn to by the exhibitor and issued by
the Bureau of Animal Industry to the
effect that this horse’s tail was set up
or docked prior to September, 1934. Our
oﬂ‘icers, of course, will insist upon that
and, if the exhibitor is guilty of perjury,
the responsibility will not fall upon us.

* As to any pledge promising to secure
similar legislation in other states, all
that can be said is that the New York
Society and our Society have agreed to
do what they could. toward accomplish—
ing such a purpose.

Hillside Acre

The beautiful Small-Animal Cemetery
of The Massachusetts Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals at
Methuen, Massachusetts, was Visited
Memorial. Day by over 120 automobiles
containing from two to ﬁve occupants
each. Many brought ﬂowers, many came
to "look once more at the small marble
stones that mark the various graves.
Over 1,000 of these small stones tell the
tale of those who have brought to this
Cemetery their family pets to be buried.

Few human cemeteries on that day
gave evidence of ﬁner care. The large
stretch of lawn was in perfect shape,
and many wondered whether they them—
selves, or all that was left of them here,
would ﬁnd so attractive a spot when the
end came.

The Cemetery cost the Society many
hundreds of dollars more than is ever
paid for the lot, the burial and the
marking stone. What a lovely thing it
would be for someone to start an endow-
ment fund to provide for this annual
loss!

Any amount given for this purpose
the Society will carefully hold in trust.

June Day at Springﬁeld

Ofﬁcers from Westover Field were
among the guests of the Springﬁeld
Branch, Women’s Auxiliary of the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A., at the annual
June Day exercises held on the estate of
George A. Bacon at Longmeadow, June
9. Supper was served from 6 to 7; a
fashion show was presented from 8 un-
til dark; motion pictures in technicolor
of Sun Valley, Idaho, were shown at 9.
This brilliant affair, always largely at—
tended, was under the direction of Mrs.
Carlton H. Garinger, president, and
Mrs. M. F. Peterson, general chairman,
with Mrs. Donald McGregor as co-chair-
man. The proceeds will be given to the
Angell Animal Hospital in Springﬁeld.




 

J une, 1941

control of insect pests can ill be spared.
The attitude of the individual farmer
toward the crow should be one of tolera-
tion when no serious losses are suffered,
rather than one of uncompromising an-
tagonism resulting in the unwarranted
destruction of these birds which at times
are most valuable aids to man.”

As to the blue jay, this bird has but
one bad fault, that of robbing the nests
of other birds. In some places, it also
takes some corn, mostly waste grain, and
some cultivated fruit. The robbing of
nests seems to be the work of jays that
have gotten into bad habits, otherwise
how can one account for the ﬁndings of
the scientists at Washington. The U. S.
Department of Agriculture examined the
contents of the stomachs of 530 blue jays,
shot for the purpose, and found the re-
mains of young birds and eggs in only
six of them. Consequently, it is folly to
shoot every jay to be seen, especially
since they destroy many grasshoppers in
autumn and many hibernating insects
and their eggs in winter. The proper pro-
cedure is to destroy only the jays actu-
ally caught robbing the nests of other
birds and let the rest alone. Blue jays
are hardy birds, full of life and good
spirits, wear neat, jaunty suits, and are
brave, shrewd and often useful.

The Song Sparrow’s Charm
L.L.REED

HERE are few birds better known

and better liked than the song spar-
row. This little songster is known by
many names, among them are silver
tongue, ground sparrow, ground—bird,
red grass-bird and swamp ﬁnch. It is
truly an all-American bird. There are
several varieties which differ only slight—
ly, and one or another of these varieties
may be found nesting anywhere from
Alaska to Mexico.

This little bird of the ﬁelds and mead-
ows, is a most persistent singer. In
all kinds of weather, and in all seasons,
one may see the song sparrow perched on
a fence post or low bush, his head
thrown back in joyous song. Where the
climate is the least bit mild he will spend
the winter, and he will be the ﬁrst of the
songsters to return to the cold northern
regions when the snow begins to melt in
the spring.

The nest, of grass and rootlets, is
placed on the ground usually hidden by
a tussock of grass. Sometimes, but only
rarely, it will be found in a bush or
small tree. It is always located in the
open ﬁeld or meadow, and never in the
dense forests.

The bird is easily recognized by the
characteristic brown spot in the middle
of its breast. The rest of the under parts
are white streaked with black. The up-
per parts are black and dark brown.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

SONG SPARROW WITH FOOD
APPROACHING ITS NEST

The song sparrow is a perky little
gentleman, and does not have the sloppy
appearance nor the gregarious habits of
the common English sparrow.

The song sparrow has much to com—
mend him to us besides his joyful song.
His principal food is insects, and his
tribe must destroy tons of them in a
season.

Glory of the Dawn Chorus
E.R. YARHAIW,F. R. G. S.

HE British Islands are happy in that

they are the home of‘ many splendid
bird songsters. One of the greatest glor-
ies of an English spring is the awaken-
ing of the birds to song, but the most
wonderful exhibition by the bird choir
is given at a time when, as the late Earl
Grey (famous as Britain’s Foreign Min-
ister during the World War, and one of
the greatest of bird lovers of recent
times) said, “civilized man is either
asleep or suffering from the want of it.”

For the variety of singers and the per—
fect blending of their songs during the
so-called “Dawn Chorus” are unequalled
at any other time of the day. It is en-
thralling to think of this glorious wave
of song sweeping round the world. On
this world-idea of dawn song an English
naturalist, M. D. Haviland, writes graph-
ically: “Suddenly an ouzel, far away
to the eastward, begins to pipe faintly;
and as the minutes pass, another and
another, nearer and nearer, join in the
chorus, until every tree bursts into a
paean of song, which in turn-is taken up

Page 109

by the expectant multitude in the forests
to the westward. It seems as if the great
wooded shoulder of the earth, rolling
eastwards into sunrise, awakes one song-
ster after another, until Asia and Eur-
ope, from Paciﬁc to Atlantic, are linked
together by a chain of thrush’s music.”

Going back over a century we ﬁnd
bluff William Cobbett while roaming the
English countryside on horseback dur-
ing his famous “Rural Rides,” fascinated
by the same ﬂood of song, for he wrote:
“Oh! the thousands of linnets all sing-
ing together on one tree, in the sand—
hills of Surrey! Oh! the caroling in the
coppices and the dingles of Hampshire
and Sussex and Kent. At this moment
(ﬁve o’clock in the morning) the groves
at Barn Elm are echoing with the war-
blings of thousands upon thousands of
birds. The thrush begins a little before
it is light; next the blackbird; next the
larks begin to rise; all the rest begin
the moment the sun gives the signal; and
from the hedges, the bushes, from the
middle and the topmost twigs of the
trees, comes the singing of endless
variety.”

Mention has been made of the affec-
tion Earl Grey had for the birds, and
Theodore Roosevelt in his autobiography
recalled the memorable hours he spent
with him in 1910. Together they tramped
the New Forest a long summer’s day,
and they identiﬁed 41 varieties of birds
and heard the calls of 23. “He knows the
songs and ways of English birds as few
know them,” said Roosevelt, and Grey
lamented that more people did not take
interest in birds. He wrote: “In May,
when all the summer birds are with us,
and established in nesting-places and
territory, the great Dawn Chorus is at
its fullest and best. . . . It is at its best
between three and four o’clock in the
morning. And when birds wake it is in
the highest vitality and spirits, which
are expressed in united song before ever
a morsel of food is sought.”

His wife, Lady Grey, once likened the
Dawn Chorus, in felicitous phrase, to
“a tapestry translated into sound,” and
she says, “The missel-thrush with the
mavis, perhaps the rounded note of an
owl, these stand out as chief ﬁgures in
the design. All the others make the dense
background of massed stitches; except
the wren, he, with resounding clatter of
notes, dominates the throng.”

“Giving names to animals is the ﬁrst
instinctive confession that they are not
things. What sensible man ever called
his table, “Carlo” or his inkspot, “Tril-
by?” Homer gives his horses the usual
names of horses in his day, such as
Xanthus and Noble Lampus. Even An-
dromache would mix wine for them even
before she attended to the wants of her
husband.”

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Page .46

 

Calf in the Rain
d e r

The spotted calf came in the rain,
It could not lift its head,

The old cow nosed it lovingly,
Upon its grassy bed.

Judy Van Veer

With cold rain beating on her back
The mother cow stood still,

As though she waited for the time
Of sunshine on the hill.

It was a deep and knowing thing-—
The patience in her eyes;

As it she told the calf to wait,
That she was old and wise.

As it in her strange speechless way
She spoke of better things,

Of sunshine golden on the grass,
Of birds with bright blue wings.

Of days when calves would run and play

Reioicing in the sun—
She lowed some deep and loving word
To this new trembling one.

So that it lifted up its head
And struggled hard to rise,

And the cow spoke once again and watched
With proud and shining eyes.

Dangerous Hideaway

MINNA WESSELHOEFT
GLIDDEN

HE old adage, “Truth is stranger
than ﬁction,” is no bromide to Ted
Spear’s mother, in Medﬁeld, Massachu—
setts, not since thirteen-year—old Ted
came home eighteen months ago, ﬂushed

and happy, cuddling a small ball of black
and white fur:

“Look, Mom! A baby kitten. Found it
in the woods, with its brothers and sis-

ters. Can I keep it? And can I get the
others?”

Ted’s mother took one look at the
ﬂuffy lump in Jimmy’s dirty hands. A
pointed snout protruded from the fur.

“Good gracious, Ted, that’s not a kit—
ten. It’s a skunk! Of course you may
not get the others, nor keep this one.”

But Ted pleaded, and the little skunk
was cute, and harmless looking. And
probably hungry. If Ted kept it in the
cellar the baby skunk could stay, for a
while anyway. Ted named him “Jimmy.”

Jimmy didn’t keep to the cellar, how-
ever. Everyone liked the gentle crea-
ture. Ted’s parents with cautious reser-
vations which precluded absolute trust.
The huge cat, “Jumbo,” took to the small
skunk instantly, stalking the little ani-
mal and batting at its plumy tail, which
held a deadly fascination for the tiger
cat. Even “Tiny Tim,” the canine treas-
ure of the household, liked the skunk,

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

and the beagle and the
dreaded animal were close
friends.

Came December, in the
second winter of the young
skunk’s life. “’Twas the
night before Christmas, and
all through the house not a
creature was stirring,”—ex-
cept Jimmy the skunk. He
crept softly into the deserted
living room.

The next morning the
skunk was missing. Anguish
tore at Ted’s heartstrings,
threatening to dim the joys
of Christmas, but curiosity
roused Tiny Tim to action.
Within ﬁve minutes the
little hound was in a deeply
overstuffed chair, sniﬂing
and whimpering. Jimmy the
skunk had crawled into the
depths of the upholstery of
his favorite chair, and was
holed in for the winter.

He was still there when
this story was written. Tiny
Tim often sniffs and whim-
pers at the chair. Ted misses
his pet. But with the joyous
optimism of youth the boy
and the dog fear nothing
and plump violently on the
stronghold of the hibernat-
ing skunk.

Ted’s parents do not share

    
 

A Cat with Extra Ears

FLORA M. DARLING

 

THIS glamorous movie star pose is merely an ex—
pression of pride that elevates “Pine Tree” above

Mar. 1941

the sublime faith of Ted and
Tiny Tim. To their friends
they stoutly maintain that
Jimmy’s long domestication
has deodorized him, and re-
joice in the prospect of an
open winter or early spring,
or both, suggested by Jim—

his feline brethren. He is deeply conscious of his

distinction in having two more ears than are custom-

ary with his species. '

The cat’s owner, Bert Robertson, of Long Beach,
California, is fully as proud of the difference as is
his pet.

The cat has two perfectly formed extra ears, each
more than an inch long, slightly below and behind
his regular ones. Whether he hears with the extra

my’s late hibernation. But
the recent earthquakes wor-
ried them regarding the
effect on Jimmy’s nervous
system. And there may be
worse earthquakes. And ter-
riﬁc fumigation.

unusual.

ears has not been discovered. This is said to be very

Pine Tree’s name was given him by Mrs. Robert-
son when he was

bushily with dark lines around it, looked surprisingly
like a pine tree.

The cat is a two-year-old Maltese.

younger and his tail, sticking up

*\

“A Place for Pets”

Another new playlet for pupils in ele-
mentary grades has just been published
by the American Humane Education So--
ciety. It is called, “A Place for Pets,”
and is by Eva Brinker, author of “The
Best Gift” and other plays previously
put out by us. It is for three boys and
three girls, and runs not more than
twenty minutes. The setting is very

simple, adapted to any stage. It presents
a ﬁne lesson in the appreciation of pets.
Price, single copy, 2 cents, six for 10
cents, postpaid. Address, American Hu-
mane Education Society, Boston.

 

Write Early for Films

There is always an unusual demand
for the two motion pictures, “The Bell
of Atri,” illustrating Longfellow’s poem,
and “In Behalf of Animals,” showing
the practical work of the Massachusetts
S. P. C. A. and its Hospital for Animals
and Rest Farm for Horses, for showing
during Humane Sunday and Be Kind
to Animals Week. Both ﬁlms are for sale
and for rent.

Please send in your reservations at
once, or you will run the risk of being
disappointed. Address, Secretary, 180
Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

  

 




 

 

Page 54

OFFICERS OF THE MASSACHUSETTS
SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION
OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
FOR 1941

President

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY

Vice-Presidents
CHARLES G. BANCROFT
WILLIAM DANA ORCUTT

Honorary Vice-Presidents

His Excellency Leverett Saltonstall, GOV-
ernor of Massachusetts

His Honor Maurice J. Tobin, Mayor of
Boston

Ex-Governor Channing H. Cox, Boston

Ex-Governor Percival P. Baxter, Portland,
Me.

Adams, Edward 8., Fall River

Appleton, Miss Maud E., Boston

Bagg, Mrs. Aaron C., Holyoke

Bartlett, Miss Bess B., Lynn

Bartley, Hattie C., Waltham

Blaisdell, Albert R, Haverhill

Bolton, Charles K., Shirley

Booth, George F., Worcester

Burgess, Thornton W., Springﬁeld

Caldwell, Miss Louise W., Dorchester

Chambers, Mrs. Percy, Southern Pines,
N. C.

Cheever, Mrs. G. J., Springﬁeld

Clarke, Mrs. Edith Washburn, Boston

Conant, James B., Pres. Harvard Uni-
versity

Crossman, Mrs. Howard A., Hampton Falls,
N. H.

Downey, Walter F., Boston

Ellis, Mrs. Dwight W., Springﬁeld

Fitzgerald, Hon. John F., Boston

Freshel, Mrs Curt P., New York City

Friend, Victor A., Melrose

Friend, Mrs. Victor A., Melrose

Godbeer, George H., Fitchburg

Gould, Arthur L., Boston

Griswold, Lyman W., Greenﬁeld

Kindel, Mrs. Charles M., Grand Rapids,
Mich.

Lowell, Dr. A. Lawrence, Boston-

McAfee, Mildred H., Pres. Wellesley College

Murphy, Rev. William J., Pres. Boston
College

Oxnam, Bishop G. Bromley, Boston

Park, J. Edgar, Pres. Wheaton College

Peirce, Miss Charlotte, Boston

Ravenscroft, Mrs. Henry, Santa Barbara,
Calif.

Sears, Miss E. R., Boston

Shearer, Miss Mary B., Baltimore, Md.

Thayer, Mrs. Ezra R., Boston

Upham, Miss E. Annie, Dorchester

\Voolley, Mary E., Westport, N. Y.

Younglove, Wm. K., Fitchburg

Younglove, Mrs. Wm. K., Fitchburg

Treasurer: ALBERT A. POLLARD
Treasurer's Assistant: JOSEPH MOONEY
Secretary: GUY RICHARDSON

Counsel: PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY
& STOREY

Executive Committee
DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY (est-officio)
CHARLES C. BANCROFT
STANWOOD K. BOLTON
\VILLIAM E. PUTNAM
EDWARD G. FISCHER
JOHN R. MACOMBER

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Trustees of Permanent Funds

John R. Macomber, Chairman of the Board,
First Boston Corporation

Charles G. Bancroft, Vice-President and
Chairman, Finance Com., United Shoe
Machinery Corporation

Charles E. Spencer, Jr., Pres., First Na-
tional Bank of Boston

Directors of the Massachusetts Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

Dr. Francis H. Rowley, President

William Dana Orcutt ' Stanwood K, Bolton
Hon. Joseph A. Sheehan Hon. Channing H, Cox

Miss Dorothy Forbes Hon. Percival P. Baxter
Charles G. Bancroft George F. Booth

John R. Forgie Thornton W. Burgess
William E. Putnam George H, Godbeer

John R. Macomber Edward G. Fischer
Mrs. Frederic A. Washburn Charles E, Spencer, Jr,
Walter M. Kendall

Honorary Members

Miss Ann Vogt Barnett, Delta, Pa.

Miss Hattie C. Bartley, Waltham

Mrs. B. A. Behrend, Beverly Farms

W. E. Bromage, Sutton, England

Mrs. Theodore Chase, Boston

Mrs. Miles M. Hapgood, Springﬁeld

Henry B. King, Augusta, Ga.

Lyndesay G. Langwill, Edinburgh, Scotland

Mrs. Sigmund Leve, Chestnut Hill

Mrs. Grace D. Proctor, Fitchburg

Capt. Fergus MacCunn, London, England

Charles Rowland Johns, London, England

Miss Edith Ward, London, England

Col. Leonard Noble, Henley-on-Thames,
England

Mrs. M. Ida Young, Longmeadow, Mass.

Our readers are urged to clip from
“Our Dumb Animals” various articles
and request local editors to republish.
Such copies will be made good by us
upon application.

 

AN OPERATION FOR UPSIDE-DOWN STOMACH AT THE

Mar. 1941

MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE
PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO
ANIMALS

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

Prosecuting Officers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100

L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Ofﬁcer
HARRY L. ALLEN HOWARD WILLAND
HARVEY R. FULLER J. ROBERT SMITH
County Prosecuting Officers
Middlesex and Norfolk
Eastern Essex

Western Essex
Western Essex

HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston
FRED ’1‘. VICKERS, Wenham
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen
JOSEPH E. HASWELL, Methuen

FRED T. HALL, Springﬁeld .
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin

ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
CHARLES E. BROWN, Attleboro, Bristol and Plymouth

HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket

T. KING HASWELL, Pittsﬁeld Berkshire

Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen
W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Rest Farm for

Other Small Animal Shelters of M. S. P. C. A.

Boston, 170-184 Longwood Avenue
Springﬁeld, 53-57 Bliss Street

Pittsﬁeld, 224 Cheshire Road

Attleboro, 3 Commonwealth Avenue
Hyannis, State Road, Rte. 28, Centerville
Wenham, Cherry Street

Taunton Branch of Mass.
HOWARD F. WOODWARD, Pres.;
WELL, Sec.

Northampton Branch of Mass. S. P. C A.—MRS.
F. E. DOW, Pres.; MISS JANE BIGELOW, Treas.

Great Barrington Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—
MRS. ROBERT MAGRUDER, Pres. ; MRS. DONALD WORTH-
INGTON, Treas.

Holyoke Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—MRS. AARON
C. BAGG, Pres.; MRS. ROBERT NEWCOMB, Treas.

W'Omen’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. WILLIAM E. UNDERWOOD, Treas.;
MRS. GEORGE D. COLPAS, Ch. Work Com. First Friday.

Springfield Branch Auxiliary—MRS. MORTON B.
MINER, Pres.; MRS. HERBERT T. PAYNE, Treas. Second
Thursday.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary—MRS.

S. P. C. A.——MRs.
MRS. THOS. H. CAS-

EDITH WASH-

BURN CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. JOHN HAMILTON CLARKE,
Treas.

 

ANGELL ANIMAL HOSPITAL, BOSTON

 




 

 

 

 

is

 

Page 118

@1112 Earth at ﬂHPrrg nr

3J1minr ﬁumant 112313112

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary
E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer

PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living crea-
tures and try to protect them from
cruel usage.

The American Humane Education So-
ciety will send to every person who forms
a Band of Mercy of thirty members, and
sends the name chosen for the Band and the
name and post-ofﬁce address of the presi-
dent who has been duly elected, special
Band of Mercy literature and a gilt badge
for the president. See inside front cover
for prices of literature and Band of Mercy
Supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Nine hundred and eighty-two new
Bands of Mercy were reported during
April. These were distributed as fol—
lows :—

Illinois ........................ 372
Georgia ........................ 107
South Carolina ................ 106
Florida ........................ 97
Rhode Island .................. 92
New York ...................... 61
Texas ........................ 56
Virginia ...................... 49
Massachusetts ................ 38
Pennsylvania .................. 4

982

Total number Bands of Mercy organ-
ized by Parent American Society,
258,602.

Multum in Parvo

Madeline Slade

A fluff of yellow,

A little bill,

Two bright black eyes
And a lovely trill;

A dainty wing

Beneath which to dream;
A tiny song

With a mighty theme
Sung from the depths
Of a heart that’s whole,
For the love of life

In a feathered soul . . .
Just a canary,

But isn't it odd

How much a bird

Can express of God?

Cicero wrote once, “Dogs watch us
faithfully. They love and worship their
masters. They hate strangers. Their
powers of tracking by scent are extra-
ordinary. Great is their keenness in the
chase. What can all this mean but that
they were made for man’s advantage?”

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

June, 1941

 

CHANDLER JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOL PET CLUB, RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

 

Save-a-Crumh Club
F. J. w.

UT of small incidents are born great
ideas.

Walking along in the slushy snow
under a gray sky that slowly sifted tiny
ﬂakes, I heard a plaintive little “Cheep!
cheep!” Looking up, there sat about half
a dozen little sparrows, wet and dishev-
eled, their feathers puffed out like little
balloons, and six pairs of beady eyes
looked hopefully at each passer—by as if
to say: “Dear, dear, please help us—we
are so hungry and cold!” It was very
pitiful indeed.

Suddenly there was a stir of excite-
ment. The birdies, all aﬂutter, began to
hop from branch to branch. One chirped
very loudly, then another, and another,
until such a hubbub of chirping (or
cheering) ﬁlled the air that I stood quite
still, eager to know what it was all about.

I didn’t have long to wait. Half a
block away appeared a little girl with a
paper bag. Her rosy face beamed as she
approached her feathered friends and
one little hand dived eagerly into the bag.
Out came a ﬁstful of crumbs which she
scattered about. Then she ran upon the
terrace to the little tree and hung two
dainty little bits of suet upon its
branches.

Her good deed done she backed away
slowly, knowing her little friends would
not venture down until the coast was
clear, so to speak.

How good it was to see those famished
little creatures enjoy the good food!

Their little benefactress watched hap—
pily from across the street, then tripped
gaily away like a good little fairy.

And speaking of the great ideas that

come from such little incidents, don’t you
think it a splendid idea if, in every com-
munity, boys and girls started a Save—a—
Crumb Club?

Think what fun it would be and what
happiness it would give our feathered
friends!

The Help-a-Dog Club

JOSEPH T. BOOZ

HE Help—a—Dog Club was organized

about ﬁve years ago by Walter
Dethloff, superintendent of the Wisconsin
Humane Society, who at the time was
seeking funds to take care of animals in
distress. At present the club has 375
members, indicating that its four-fold
program has proved to be a success.

The club helps dog owners who cannot
afford to buy a license, if the dog has
been in the service of his master for
two or more years. On certain occasions
it pays for required veterinary service;
it lends books on dog care to owners
seeking competent guidance; and it even
advertises in the local newspapers to ﬁnd
lost dogs.

So now if Johnny Jones cannot buy a
license for his dog, Johnny can explain
his case to an ofﬁcer of the club. If the
club after investigation ﬁnds that
Johnny’s case warrants help, he receives
it. Johnny is then advised to budget his
ﬁnances so that he may have a sufﬁcient
amount for the price of the following
year’s license.

The ofﬁcers and all those responsible
for the organization of the Help-a-Dog
Club, sponsored by the Wisconsin Hu-
mane Society, have forged another link
of progress in the never-ending chain of
human kindness to our animal friends.

 




 

M ar. 1941

Be Kind to Animals Week

The story of our observance of Be
Kind to Animals Week has already been
told in the columns of Our Dumb Ani-
mals (June, 1940) to which readers are
referred for details. Governor Salton—
stall as well as several other Governors
issued the usual Proclamation; a ﬁne
series of broadcasts were given by ofﬁ-
cers and members of the staff; good
newspaper publicity was accorded; and
the annual prize poster contest, in which
about 40,000 pupils in Massachusetts
schools participated, was a marked suc-
cess. Our Dumb Animals awarded 23
cash prizes and ten annual subscriptions
to winners in a contest for the best
original photographs of wild animals and
birds.

Thornton W. Burgess, for the fourth
successive time, gave an illustrated lec-
ture on Humane Sunday which packed
the lecture hall of the Boston Public
Library.

Schools throughout Massachusetts and
Chicago observed Humane Day by using
the pamphlet of “Humane Exercises”
compiled and published by the Society.

Conventions and Addresses

President Rowley spoke at the Inter—
national Conference for Investigation of
Vivisection, in May, and gave the open-
ing address at the annual meeting of the
New England Federation of Humane So-
cieties, in October, both held in Boston.
He also addressed the annual meeting of
the Women’s Auxiliary at Springﬁeld,
Mass, in May.

The Secretary attended the annual con-
vention of the American Humane Asso—
ciation, in Omaha, in October, where he
had charge of a large exhibit of litera-
ture and posters. Thousands of copies of
the Society’s publications were distribu-
ted free to the delegates.

Summary

Addresses by ﬁeld workers ...... 2,697
Total number in audiences ...... 443,575

Pieces of literature, etc., distributed

free 167,545
New Bands of Mercy organized . . . 8,764
Total Bands «of Mercy at end of year 255,709

in Jack

ooooooooooooooooooooooo

New members enrolled

London Club ............... 37,991
Membership of Jack London Club
at end of year .............. 797,234

Treasurer’s Report

We are very glad to report, due to
generous contributions to humane edu-
cation work, that our

Receipts from all sources were. . $20,714.22
19,200.43

1,513.79

Expenses

oooooooooooooooooo

Leaving a balance on hand of . .

FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

OFFICERS OF THE AMERICAN
HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
FOR 1941 '

President

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY

Vice-Presidents

CHARLES G. BANCROFT
WILLIAM DANA ORCUTT

Honorary Vice-Presidents
His Excellency Leverett Saltonstall, Gov-
ernor of Massachusetts
Ex-Governor Channing H. Cox, Boston

Erx—Governor Percival P. Baxter, Portland,
Me.

Bagg, Mrs. Aaron C., Holyoke, Mass.
Baldwin, Mrs. M. W., Sioux City, Iowa
Barton, Bolling, Pikesville, Md.
Barton, Mrs. Bolling, Pikesville, Md.

Beebe, Ethel Mount
Conn.

Boyce, Aline J., Woodstock, Vt.
Clarke, Miss Frances E., New York, N. Y.

Crossman, Mrs. Howard A., Hampton Falls,
N. H.

Dethloﬂ“, Walter J., Milwaukee, Wis.

Dow, Mrs. E. C., Chicago, Ill.

Downey, Walter F., Boston, Mass.

Edge, Mrs. C. N., New York City

Everitt, Mrs. Ellen Knapp, Escondido, Cal.
Frederick, Mrs. O. F., Santa Monica, Calif.
Friedrichs, Charles W., San Francisco, Cal.
French, Marie, St. Joseph, Mo.

Hardy, Mrs. Richard, Chattanooga, Tenn.

Johns, Charles R., London, Eng.

Kindel, Mrs. Charles M., Grand Rapids,
Mich.

Krahl, Mrs. Dorothy F., Chicago, Ill.
Landes, Bernard S., Colorado Springs, Colo.
MacCunn, Captain Fergus, London, Eng.
Manning, Mrs. Alice W., Istanbul, Turkey
Packard, Bertram E., Augusta, Maine
Peck, William R., Holyoke, Mass.

Phillips, William T., Philadelphia, Pa.
Rathom, Mrs. John R., Providence, R. I.

Ravenscroft, Mrs. Henry, Santa Barbara,
Calif.

Saunders, Miss Marshall, Toronto, Ontario
Schleck, Leo P., Madison, Wis.

Smith, Efﬁe E., San Francisco, Cal.
Sweeney, Mrs. Frank, East Haverhill, Mass.
Wentzel, Dr. Wm. F. H., Pittsburgh, Pa.
Williams, Charles A., Monte Carlo, Monaco

Treasurer: ALBERT A. POLLARD
Secretary: GUY RICHARDSON

Counsel: PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY
& STOREY

Fairmont, Carmel,

Trustees of Permanent Funds

John R. Macomber, Chairman of the Board,
First Boston Corporation

Charles G. Bancroft, Vice-President and
Chairman, Finance Com., United Shoe
Machinery Corporation

Charles E. Spencer, Jr., Pres, First Na-
tional Bank of Boston

Page 57'

Directors of the American Humane
Education Society

Dr. Francis H. Rowley, President

Miss Sarah J. Eddy
William Dana Orcutt
William E. Putnam
Charles G. Bancroft
Walter M. Kendall

Hon. Joseph A. Sheehan

Stanwood K. Bolton
John R. Macomber
John R. Forgie

Hon. Percival P. Baxter
Edward G. Fischer
Charles E. Spencer, Jr.

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

E. J. H. Escobar ............. Colombia
Luis Pareja Cornejo ............. Ecuador
Charles A. Williams .............. France
Leonard T. Hawksley ............ Italy

S. C. Batra ...................... India
Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe . ....... Japan
Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ....... Madeira
Dr. A. T. Ishkanian .............. Mexico
Mrs. Alice W. Manning ........... Turkey

Humane Press Bureau

Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Field Workers of the Society

Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell- Fort Worth, Texas
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia

Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Slaton Texas

Seymour Carroll, Columbia, South Carolina
Rev. R. E. Grifﬁth, De Land, Florida

Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.

Field Representative

Dr. Wm. F. H. Wentzel, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

. Field Lecturer in Massachusetts

Ella A. Maryott

Honorary Members

William B. Allison, Los Angeles, California

Mrs. Julia M. Baldwin, Chicago, Ill.

Miss Louise de St. Hubert Guyol, New
Orleans, La.

Miss Mary Harrold, Washington, D. C.

Mrs. Marion E. Fraser, Chicago, Ill.

Mrs. Alice W. Manning, Istanbul, Turkey

Dr. Carlos Monteverde, Guayaquil, Ecua-
dor

Mrs. Edith L. Smith, New York, N. Y.

M. Roger des Varennes, Paris, France

George Arliss, New York, N. Y.

Mrs. George Arliss, New York, N. Y.

Louis Pareja Cornejo, Quito, Ecuador

Mrs. A. D. McDaniel, South Tacoma, Wash.

Ex-Governor A. V. Donahey, Columbus,
Ohio

Dr. Willis A. Sutton, Atlanta, Ga.

Lyndesay G. Langwill, Edinburgh, Scotland

Retired Workers9 Fund

E are receiving gifts to the Ameri—

can Humane Education Society as a
trust fund, the interest to be used for the
beneﬁt of ﬁeld missionaries and others who
have spent their lives in promoting humane
education. Already several cases have come
to our attention and are being relieved in
this way. We will welcome your contribu—
tion to this fund.

Please make checks payable to Albert A.
Pollard, Treasurer, American Humane Edu—
cation Society, 180 Longwood Avenue, Bos-
ton, and specify that the amount con-
tributed is for the Humane Education
Trust Fund.

 




July, 1941

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel
JOSEPH MOONEY, Treasurer’s Assistant

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President and Ch. Fi-.

nance Com., United Shoe Machinery Corporation

CHARLES E. SPENCER, JR., President, First National '

Bank of Boston

Prosecuting Officers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100
L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Ofﬁcer

HARRY L. ALLEN HOWARD WILLAND
HARVEY R. FULLER J. ROBERT SMITH

County Prosecuting Officers

Middlesex and Norfolk
Eastern Essex
Western Essex
Western Essex

HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston
FRED T. VICKERS, Wenham
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen
JOSEPH E. HASWELL, Methuen
FRED F. HALL, Springﬁeld

Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
CHARLES 'E. BROWN, Attleboro, Bristol and Plymouth
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis

Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket

T. KING HASWELL, Pittsﬁeld Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen
W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Other Small Animal Shelters of M. S. P. C. A.
Boston, 170-184 Longwood Avenue
Springﬁeld, 53-57 Bliss Street
Pittsﬁeld. 224 Cheshire Road
Attleboro, 3 Commonwealth Avenue
Hyannis, State Road, Rte. 28, Centerville
Wenham, Cherry Street

MAY REPORT OF THE OFFICERS OF
THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.,
WITH HEADQUARTERS AT BOSTON,
METHUEN, SPRINGFIELD, PITTSFIELD,
ATTLEBORO, WENHAM, HYANNIS, WOR-
CESTER, FITCHBURG, NORTHAMPTON,
HAVERHILL, HOLYOKE, ATHOL, TAUN-
TON, COVERING THE ENTIRE STATE

Miles traveled by humane officers . . 17,422
Cases investigated . . . . . ........ 286
Animals examined ..... . ....... 4,523
Animals placed in homes ........ 295
Lost animals restored to owners. . 87
Number of prosecutions ........ 31
Number of convictions . . . ...... 31
Horses taken from work ....... 11
Horses humanely put to sleep . . . . 26
Small animals humanely put to sleep 2,866
Horse auctions attended ........ 8
Stockyards and Abattoirs
Animals inspected ............. 53,875
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep ................ 51

i ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

HOSPITAL
and Dispensary for Animals
184 Longwood Avenue. Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

E. F. SCHROEDER, D.V.M., Chief of Staﬁ
R. H. SCHNEIDER, v.M.D., Asst. Chief
G. B. SCHNELLE, v.M.D.

T. O. MUNSON, v.M.D.
C. L. BLAKELY, v.M.D.
M. S. ARLEIN, D.V.M.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springﬁeld Branch

Telephone 4-7355
53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.

Veterinarians
A. R. EVANS, v.M.D. H. L. SMEAD, D.V.M.

 

 

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR MAY
At 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

Cases entered in Hospital ........ 755
Cases entered in DiSpensary ...... 1,914
Operations ...................... 404

At Springﬁeld Branch, 53 Bliss Street

 

Cases entered in Hospital ........ 180
Cases entered in Dispensary ...... 535
Operations ...................... 109
At Attle‘boro Clinic, 3 Commonwealth Ave.
Cases entered ............. 7 ....... 66
Totals

Hospital cases since opening, Mar.
1, 1915 ...................... 194,668
Dispensary Cases ............... 490,814
Total ............. 685,482

Veterinarian Column

1. Question: I think my dog needs
worming. What should I give it to get
rid Of worms?

Answer: The safest procedure in
worming a dog is to consult a veteri-
narian. It would be much simpler for him
if you would save a fresh sample of the
dog’s bowel movement and give it to the
veterinarian. By examining the sample
of feces the doctor will be able to ﬁnd
out if the dog has worms and, if so, what
kind of worms are present; thus gov-
erning the kind Of medicine to give.
Medicines devised to rid the dog Of all
kinds Of worms at once are dangerous
to use unless so advised by your veter-
inarian.

2. Question: Every summer my dog
has sores develop on his body. The hair
comes Off these sore spots and they ap-
pear raw and moist. What is this condi-
tion, and what can be done to relieve
it?

Answer: This condition is a form of
eczema, and is believed to be caused by
a dietary disturbance. This is not always
the cause, however, and it would be best

Page 131

to have your veterinarian examine the
dog and prescribe treatment for the con-
dition.

3. Question: I have a male Boston
terrier that is fourteen years Old. I wish
to have him humanely put to sleep. What
is the best method for doing this?

Answer: The method Of euthanasia
most commonly employed by humane so-
cieties is the administration Of an over-
dose Of an anesthetic. One Of the modern
anesthetics, nembutal, is being used more
and more. It is injected intravenously as
a hypodermic injection "and the animal
goes to sleep almost instantaneously. Gas
is frequently used as its action is'quick
and painless. Chloroform is used with
very small animals and birds. Any of
these above-mentioned methods are ex?
cellent for your purpose; , ‘ ' p _

4. Question: For the past week my
cat, a female tiger, three years old, has

been shaking her head and scratching

her ears. There is a black waxy discharge
from both ears. What is thiscondition,
and what should I do?

Answer: The usual cause Of this con-
dition in cats is... an infection with para—
sites. These parasites are little mites that
live in the ear and i are transmissible
from one cat to another. You Should have
the cat treated by your veterinarian.

5. Question: I wish to purchase a
puppy for my daughter. Where is the
best place to get a healthy animal?

Answer: If you desire a registered dog
you should write to the American Ken-
nel Club, 221 Fourth Avenue, New York
City, for a list of approved kennels in
your locality. American Kennel Club ap-
proved kennels handle healthy dogs and
their stock is registered. Caution should
be used in purchasing pet-shop, or road-
side kennel dogs. If you do buy a dog at
one of these places, do so with the under-
standing (preferably in writing), that
if the animal is not satisfactory in every
way it may be returned within ﬁve days
and your purchase price refunded. As
soon as you get this dog, have a compe-
tent veterinarian examine it for the
presence of any disease or abnormality.

L. H. S., Veterinary Dept.,
Angell Animal Hospital

Branches and Auxiliaries
MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Taunton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.——MRS.
HOWARD F. WOODWARD, Pres.; MRS. THos. H. CAS-
WELL, Sec.

Northampton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—MRS.
F. E. DOW, Pres.; MISS JANE BIGELOW, Treas.

Great Barrington Branch Of Mass. S. I’. C. A.—
MRS. ROBERT MAGRUDER, Pres.; MRS. DONALD WORTH-
INGTON, Treas.

Holyoke Branch Of Mass. S. P. C. A.—-MRS. AARON
C. BAGG, Pres.; MRS. ROBERT E. NEWCOMB, Treas.

Springfield Branch Auxiliary—MRS. CARLTON H.
GARINGER, Pres.; MRS. RICHARD A. BOOTH, Treas.
Second Thursday.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary—MRS. RICHARD S.
TAYLOR, Pres.; MRS. JOHN HAMILTON CLARKE, Treas.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

.l'ublished monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cru

U

o 1. ANOELL ‘

 
 

U. S.Tradc ,MarkRegxsteped ' k

N 1868. AND“ FOR'FORTYQNE

The‘ji'I-iiMassachuset-ts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,

Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,

Yet wanting sensibility, the man,-
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
—-COWPER

YEARS

13.1117

     
   
  
    
 

GLORY TO
GOD,
PEACE on EARTH,

  
 

AND Mencv To
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

elty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

Entered as seeond-class matter, June 29, 1917. at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass, under the Act of March 3, 1879
Acceptance for mailing at. spec1al rate of postage pruvidvd for in section? 1103. Act of October 3, 1917. authorized. July 13, 1919

Boston Office, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

Vol; 74

September, . 1941

No. 9

 

For years the Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Ani-
mals has had posted at the summer re-
sorts in the Commonwealth during the
latter part of August, placards warning
against abandoning animals by summer
residents returning to their homes. A.
reward of twenty dollars is offered for
the conviction of anyone guilty of such
cruelty.

The San Francisco S. P. C. A.,
through its magazine, is perfectly right
in warning people against buying dog
foods, or any other commodity, for the
sake of getting a numbered medal or
tag to identify their dog in case it gets
lost.

There is nothing better in the long
run than a regular license tag which
' identiﬁes the dog. Where there happens
to be a community where no license tags
are given, a metal tag bearing the name
and address of the owner is far superior
to these advertised fancy numbered
plates.

An article appears in the last Animal
World, organ of the Royal Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals of
London, giving a list of many weed seeds
which can easily be gathered in country
regions for the use of canaries, parrots
and certain other birds. The time when
the weeds are in blossom and when they
ﬁnally are ripe and ready for the gath-
ering of the seeds is also carefully
described in the article.

Cats and oatmeal in England are no
longer to be used except for human food.

The World War, so-called, left us with
a national debt of $223.85 for every
man, woman and child in the country.
Who can realize our present indebted-
ness?

The Hit-and-Run Driver

HE press of the nation, on July 13,
1941, carried an account of a trial
of an automobile driver in Omaha,
Nebraska, who was charged with hit-
and-run driving after striking a dog
and failing to make known his identity.
The presiding Justice, Dennis O’Brien,
of the Omaha Court, stated that the
owner was responsible for the dog and
ruled that a driver who hits a dog and
does not stop is innocent of hit—and-run
driving. "

The president of our two Societies, in
a statement released to the press, de—
plored the decision of the Nebraska
Judge, asserting that such an unfortu-
nate decision conveys the impression
that dogs may be injured by hit-and-
run drivers without fear of police action
when such is not the case.

It was pointed out by Dr. Rowley that
Massachusetts and many other states
require that a driver striking a dog
make every effort to make known his
identity to the owner or to the police
and, failing to do so, he may be charged
with hit-and—run driving.

Typical of the comment of the press
to this criticism of the Omaha Judge is
the following editorial in the Boston
Sunday Post, July 20, 1941:

No Crime?

In the opinion of a Nebraska Judge an
automobile operator who keeps right on
traveling after his automobile has struck
a dog is not guilty of hit-and-run driv-
ing. The Judge (it isn’t likely that he
has ever known the love of a pet dog)
feels that responsibility for a dog’s
safety is entirely a matter of concern
for its owner.

Fortunately, as Dr. Francis H. Row-
ley of the American Humane Education

Society points out, Massachusetts and
many other states differ on the matter
with the Nebraska f'statutes. Here, at
least, the law would call such a callous
operator a hit-and-runner. Only a hit-
and-run operator at heart could be
guilty of such a heinous, cruel crime.

Back from Switzerland

BACK from that heroic and wonderful
little republic, a friend of our Society,
for many years a generous contributor,
now in this country, writes of that week
in Switzerland when invasion by Ger—
many was daily expected.

She says, “I stayed during the terrible
week that preceded Chamberlain’s ﬂight
to Munich, in spite of the Consul’s letter
advising instant departure. The pall of
tragic fear that overhung Europe then
is almost beyond realization. Each day
the newspapers had such headlines as
‘Nearer the Abyss.’ Many a woman, I
among them, went about with eyes red-
dened from weeping. Although I do,
with every breath I draw, realize the
blessing of American freedom—a bless-
ing which we had always taken for
granted—no one can value it like those
who have lived in Europe since 1933.”

The Greek gods are the crude but
telling expression of the absolute con—
viction that since man is somebody, and
not something, the ultimate explanation
for what happens to him should rest
with somebody, and not merely with
some thing.

“Biography of Great Philosophers"

Mr. W. A. Fox, connected with the
Weekly Era, Rochester, Michigan, writes
us that he has been a reader of 0er
Dumb Animals ever since 1868, when it
was ﬁrst issued.

 

 

 

 

 




 

Feb. 1941

An Animal That Lays Eggs

V. T. JOHNSON

NE of the world’s most curious ani-

mals is the duck-billed platypus of
Australia. Somewhere along the line it
seems to have got mixed up with a
host of other animals, and even fowls. It
is an amazing mixture indeed, truly one
of nature’s “misﬁts.”

Covered with a soft, silky mole—like
fur, this unique creature sprouts a bill
that looks much like a duck’s, except that
it is broader and ﬂatter, has webbed
feet—and it lays eggs! Yet, in spite of
its grotesque appearance, it has a high
degree of intelligence, enabling it to
employ every last one of its strange phy—
sical characteristics to good advantage.

The bill, for instance, is especially use-
ful when the animal is burrowing in the
soft mud along the streams where it
usually makes its home. The bill, how-
ever, is not attached to the skull, but only
to the skin, with a small fold of ﬂesh at
its base which acts as a guard or cushion
to absorb the shocks. The webbed feet, of
course, assist the animal in swimming,
but when burrowing the webbing which
extends beyond the claws, is folded back
away from the claws.

Strange as he may be the platypus is
an architectural wizard when it comes to
the task of constructing his home. It is
really a masterpiece of burrowing, both
from the standpoint of protection and
comfort, and readily displays a high de-
gree of intelligence.

Much like the muskrat or beaver, the
platypus’s home has two entrances, one
below the water and one above. The latter
is usually well camouﬂaged with a clever
screen of twigs and weeds. From the
underground entrance the passage slopes
upward above the water line, and often
extends for ﬁfty feet into the bank before
the central chamber is reached.

With the foresight of a genius the ani-
mal burrows out a number of false
lateral passages leading off from the
main tunnel, with the idea of leading any

 

DUCKB ILL

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

pursuer into a dead end. If this trick
should fail to confuse the attacker, the
platypus has still another trick in his
bag. He blocks up the entrance to the
central chamber. From the outside it
then has the appearance of an innocent
wall.

Clever as this animal is in building
his home for protection, his means of
defense are sadly wanting, and, conse-
quently, he has become rather rare. Un-
less placed under government supervi-
sion, the chances of his survival are small.

Fort Sumter Shelters Fox
K A D R A M A Y S I

ISTORIC Fort Sumter -— military

landmark of Charleston harbor—had
a strange visitor in November. Instead of
arriving by boat with chattering tourists
from the wharf on the Battery, this visi-
tor swam, in silence and night, from the
James Island shore. Local newspapers
reported him as a “red fox;” but I doubt
that, since our tidewater foxes are of the
smaller gray species and the red fox is
generally found a hundred miles from
sea in the foothills of South Carolina.
Red or gray, he appeared one morning on
the narrow beach of the tiny sand bar
upon which the fort is built. He would
not allow anyone to approach him and he
ﬁnally took off from that beach at low
tide.

Between Fort Sumter and old Fort
J ohnson—now the Charleston Quaran-
tine Station—reaches a long, submerged
sand bar. At low tide the swim between
Fort Sumter and James Island is short-
ened and broken by this bar. It seems
reasonable to suppose that the fox——
hard—pressed by hounds upon the main-
land—ran to the extreme edge of James
Island shore and, in order to escape,
pushed on, by marsh or sandspit, and
ﬁnally swam to the fort in mid-channel.
It is even possible that he was attacked
by a mad fox; for cases of rabies among
foxes have been reported recently in
South Carolina and several people have
been attacked in country districts.

Whatever m a d e
him refugee under
Sumter’s a n c i e n t
wall, I hope that his
brave heart carried
him safely back
across that stretch
of deep salt water
and into the myrtle
and broom and pine
of his lair on James
Island shore.

The hope of the
world lies in culti-
vating good char-
acter in its children.

ANGELO PATRI

Page, 27

Hunting Season
C h a ff e e

The little red fox in his den
Whimpered in fear, alone.
Hisiterror lay in his breast
Like a stone.

Eleanor Alletta

The motherless fawn stood still
In the thicket, with heaving side
In a world too great for rest
And too wide.

Through the forest a shadow came
That spoke with the voice of steel:
The hunter, who calls at will
Death to heel.

Is there so much beauty on earth
That it may be slain, be killed?
So much loveliness it must be
Forever stilled?

Ten Famous Horses

HOWARD COLLINS in San Francisco
Saturday Review

AN’S best friend, the horse, has ﬁg-

ured in a great many stories in the
world’s literature, though generally
anonymously. However, the ten that are
brieﬂy described below do have names.
Can you remember them? Allow 5 points
for each one you can name, and another
5 if you can also recall the work in which
the horse appears and the name of the
author. A score of 70 is par, 80 is good,
90 or better is excellent. Answers on
page 85.

1. She lost her tail in a race to save
her drunken master from the witches
who were chasing him.

2. Although this huge black horse
traveled at a tremendous speed, it took
him more than half a century to bring
his master home to Boston.

3. Nobody could ride this swift little
strawberry colored mare but Tom Fag-
gis, the highwayman who owned her.

4. Broken down by cruel treatment
and overwork as a cab horse, this gentle
thoroughbred was ﬁnally restored to his
proper station.

5. Lean and bony and full of blem-
ishes, but still regarded as a steed su-
preme by the gallant knight who owned
him.

6. The favorite for the Wessex Cup,
this horse was convicted for justiﬁable
homicide by a famous sleuth.

7. This black mare hung up a record
in racing from London Town to York to
save her outlaw master.

8. Gaunt and vicious and full of the
devil himself, but he ﬂed from the Gal-
loping Hessian.

9. This fat white horse pulled a trav-
eling book store.

10. For galloping all night to save a
neighboring city, this horse was re-
warded with a drink of wine.

 




4“,..Cu ...._.V.-._...., _. -.. ,_,,_ ~»._4._.._.U_

u____.‘,_““ .A.4.. -

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY

\ FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUE

MER CAN

N S o CIETY,

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 220 '

Warning

Louise Darcy

Deer in the forest,
Couched there in gloom,
Stay safely sheltered

In shadowy room.

Pheasant in the covert,
‘Do not rise to see

The dark heart of danger
On wings wild and tree.

Four-footed creatures,
Turn from the way
Where traps lie hidden
By night and by day.

So I would warn them
When danger is near;

So I would guard them
From death and from fear.

 

 

Compliments of
GALLUP and HADLEY

Attorneys and Counsellors-at-Law

DANA T. GALLUP 6 BEACON ST.,
EDWIN W. HADLEY BOSTON, MASS.

 

 

 

 

 

 

KEEP YOUR DOGS

WORM CAPSULES

Use Nema Capsules to remove
large roundworms and hook-
worms. Effective—Dependable.
F R E Send for Nema
booklet No.652.

Write to Animal Industry Dept, Desk -"5"L
PARKE, DAVIS & 60., DETROIT, MICH.

Drug Stores Sell Parke-Davis Products

 

 

NEW ENGLAND ANTI-GAMBLING
ASSOCIATION. INC.

6 BEACON ST.. BOSTON. MASS.

“We compliment the M. S. P. C. A. on its

noble work to prevent cruelty. to racing
animals.”

EDWIN W. HADLEY, President

 

 

 

 

 

 

GIVE THIS IMPORTANT CARE TO

BABY’S SKIN

...PURE,SOOTHING,MILDLYMEDICATED \

‘HI‘IITrIl‘l:|HIIIIJ“l

OINTMENT 0 TALCUM 0 SOAP

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

IN THE EDITOR’S LIBRARY

 

PICTURE CHART OF ALL DOGS, Will
Judy.

This chart, 17 X 22 inches, printed on
very heaVy paper, presents illustrations of
all of the pure breeds of dog recognized by
the American Kennel Club, 108 breeds.
They are divided into 20 sporting, 16
hounds, 27 working, 8 non—sporting, 21
terriers and 16 toys. This is the ﬁfth re—
vised edition, dated July, 1941. It is sold
for $1 each or $2 for three, postpaid. The
world dog map, presenting sketches and
countries of origin of all dogs, 169 pure
breeds, similar size and printing, now in its
second edition, sells at the same price.

Judy Publishing Co, 3323 Michigan
Blvd., Chicago.

FLASHING WINGS,

Fowler.

This volume of verse, by a contributor
to Our Dumb Animals, while containing
few poems on animals yet exhibits such a
love of nature that we feel justiﬁed in re—
viewing it here. Anyone familiar with New
Hampshire, from Little Boar’s Head to
Mount Washington, will revel in the ap—
preciative references to the state’s natural
beauty, climaxed in the opening lines of
“New Hampshire,”

“1 have loved you since the day I ﬁrst
drew breath
From the breeze that cools your seacoast,
and I’ll love you till my death!”

94 pp. $1.50.
Boston.

William Plumer

Bruce Humphries, Inc.,

 

 

OUTSTANDING SILENT FILMS
THE BELL OF ATRI

illustrating Longfellow’s poem
of the same title,

and
IN BEHALF OF ANIMALS

showing the practical work of the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A., the
Angell Animal Hospital and the
Rest Farm for Horses. For terms
of rental or sale address, Secretary,

180 Longwood Ave., Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1832

.1. s. WATERMAN & SONS, Inc.
illuhrriakrrs

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE

City and out-of-town service

 

 

 

 

 

lVoo.1941

Liberal Annuity Rates

Both of our Societies offer you semi-
annually during your lifetime a fixed income
on the sum given. Depending upon your age
at the time of the gift, the rate varies from
41/2 % to 9% per annum, beginning at age 45.-

~‘ ADVANTAGES

No coupons to clip, no papers to sign and
mail. You simply receive your checks at
stated intervals—that’s all there is to it.

Annuity agreements are frequently used to
provide for the future years of a loved one
whose present income is temporary or in-
sufficient.

It is no experiment,

There is no anxiety,
No fluctuations in rate of income,
No waste of your estate by a will
contest.

Persons of comparatively small means
may, by this arrangement, obtain a better
income for life than could be had with equal _
safety by the usual methods of investment,
while avoiding the risks and waste of a will
contest and ultimately promoting the cause
of unfortunate animals.

The management of our invested funds is
a guarantee of the security of these Life
Annuities.

The Massachusetts 5- P. C. A., or the,
American Humane Education Society, 7180‘
Longwood Avenue, Boston, will be glad to
furnish further details.

 

 

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the first Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Office; 180 Longwood Av-
enue. Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS

One dollar per year.
the world.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the office en-

title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY -

OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Active Life $100 00
Associate Life 50 00
Sustaining Life ‘20 00

Children’s $0 75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
A. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston.

Active Annual $10 00
Associate Annual 5 00

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor, 180

Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

FORM OF BEQUEST

 

of .......... dollars, (or, if other property, describe the property).

In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of
our Society is “The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals”; that it is the second incorporated (March, 1868)
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country, and
that it has no connection with any other similar Society.

Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angell
Memorial Animal Hospital, should, nevertheless, be made to the Massa-
chusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals “for the use
of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital," as the Hospital is not incor-
porated but is the prOperty of that Society and is conducted by it.

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty

 

 

 

to Animals (or to the American Humane Education Society), the sum

Postage free to any part of ‘ 0

Annual 1 00

_ 2'1”“ -“".‘—‘.; If: _ Chg“: .. '_, . . 7")“
1h 't‘:l§’%ni¢%;"sﬁén~’ ~.,—;:- ' ' ‘1- 5'

 




_ __F _

 

 

 

July, 1941

Katy-did
May Allread Baker

“Katy-did! Katy-didn't!

“Katy-did! Katy-didn’t!"

You affirm, and you deny, persistently,
As you scold your heart! away

Till the night turns into day,

Safely sheltered in the friendly maple tree.

"Katy-did! Katy-didn’t!

“Katy-did! Katy-didn't!”

This the tale I hear each night when I’m in
bed.

In your dainty coat of green,

On the maple boughs that lean

Near the open window, just above my head.

“Katy-did! Katy-didn't!

"Katy-did! Katy-didn't!"

What an artful little witch this Kate must be!
Affirmation and denial—

Have you put her to the trial,

Little lawyer, in the friendly maple tree?

The Land of Trembling Earth
K A D R A M A Y s I ,

Q LTHOUGH the great Okefenokee

Swamp in Southern Georgia is one
of the wonders of our country, it is little
known and seldom visited. One hundred
and ten years ago General Floyd led a
small army into it and drove out a band
of Seminoles who had taken refuge
there. But their names and their legends
linger in the twilight of cypress trees,
along the maze of water trails where
only a guide can ﬁnd his way, and upon
desolate islands where earth trembles
underfoot.

We went into the swamp via Fargo
and the romantic Suwanne River, at just
the point where commenced General
Floyd’s march in 1831. As we stepped
into the long, narrow pine boat—driven
by a speedy outboard motor—a three-
foot cottonmouth moccasin slid over-
board beside us. But it was the only
snake we saw in two days in the swamp.
We were upon Billy’s Lake, one of the
largest bodies of open water in the
Okefenokee. The water was sherry
brown and still and reﬂections of the
cypress trees made it appear terrifyingly
deep. From every fallen log we passed,
colonies of cooters dived and—with great
splashes—alligators did the same. To us
from the South Carolina coast, alliga-
tors are no novelty; but we had never
seen them so numerous and so unafraid.
They are protected by law, as is all other
life in the swamp, and they seem accus-
tomed to sound of the motors. Only one
of more than a hundred which we
counted seemed to resent our presence.
He was over ten feet long and, upon the
shore, had caught his gnarled head in
the tangled growth along the bank. The
guide drove the boat straight toward the

OUR DUMB

ANIMALS

Page 129

 

BOSTON POLICE HORSE PHOTOGRAPHED WITH HIS FRIEND
IN CORRAL BACK OF STATION HOUSE 16

 

struggling saurian. He tore loose and
cast himself overboard. Then he ﬂung
around in the water and deliberately
struck at the boat with his tail, giving
all three of us a shower bath.

Upon our ﬁrst day we motored twenty
or thirty miles and joined another party
for fried ﬁsh (caught in the swamp) and
“hush puppies” made of cornmeal batter
and onions. Our water way led through
dark lagoons where the cypresses shut
off sunlight, along twisting water trails
bordered by wampee, golden club and
white and yellow water lilies, across
water prairies six miles long. We disem-
barked upon islands which looked like
solid earth but which trembled if a man
stamped until the tall trees on them
swayed. In these places a pole pushed
down would reach mud or water after
going through six to twelve inches of
earth. Because of this unstable terrain—
formed by falling leaves and mould of
centuries—the Indians called the great
swamp, sixty miles long by twenty miles
wide, Okefenokee or “land of trembling
earth.”

But there are also real islands in the
Okefenokee wilderness and, of these,
Billy’s Island is best known. For many
years a small settlement of white people
lived on it and farmed it. Other stable
islands are Honey Bee, Broom, Scrub,
Hog, Pine, Black-Jack, Fiddler’s, Garry’s
Sock, Strange Island and Bugaboo. They
and all the rest are haunted by legends
and strange tales, but tales too long to be
told here.

Endowed stalls and kennels are
needed in the Angel] Memorial Animal
Hospital. Payments of thirty-ﬁve dol-
lars for a kennel or seventy-ﬁve dollars
for a stall will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name. For terms
of permanent endowment of free: stalls
and kennels, address the Treasurer.

A Toast to the Cow

HE Cow, Bovine Benefactress. The

foster-mother of the world. She takes
the grasses of the pasture and the rough-
age of the ﬁeld and converts them into
the most perfect food for man. In that
food is a mysterious something which
scientists have found essential to the
highest health of the human race. It can—
not be found anywhere else. The vita-
mins stored in golden, yellow butter—
the nutrition packed in cheese—the cool,
refreshing food values of ice cream—are
each products of Nature’s greatest food
factory—The Cow. Nearest approach to
the fabled “fountain of youth” yet dis-
covered is the udder of the cow. Without
her milk—children languish, the vigor of
the adult declines, and the vitality of the
human race runs low.

Not only is the cow a boon to human-
ity, but she affects the economic life of
the nations as well. One out of ﬁve fami—
lies in the nation depends upon her for a
livelihood. She produced the greatest
cash income of the farm last year——
$1,530,000,000.00—which makes her the
big business of the American farmer.
She is the nation’s greatest “soil builder
and mortgage lifter”——that is why the
astute American banker respects her.
There is no substitute for that which
comes from the cow. The growth of good,
sound bodies, bone, muscle, good teeth,
depends upon the liberal use of dairy
products, whether they come from the
deep, white cloth-covered crocks in the
cool spring house, or from the utilitarian
bottle left outside the door by the milk-
man in the early morning.

—Ayrshire Digest

Oliver Wendell Holmes once said,
“How greatly man is the omnibus of all
his ancestors. All of them, good and bad,
are running around inside of him.”

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Sept. 19.41

A Dreamer’s Hobby

MARY AGNES COLVILLE

HARLES LUTWIDGE DODGSON

or “Lewis Carroll” as he is much
more familiarly known—that highly im-
aginative writer who so intrigued the
world with his “Alice in Wonderland”
and “Through the Looking Glass,” was
the ardent friend and companion of ants
and toads.

Just as many men would form a spec-
ial comradeship with, or attachment for
a dog, or horse, or cat, or some other
domestic pet, Charles Dodgson (Lewis
Carroll) found real pleasure in the so-
ciety of toads and ants. He formed an
intimate companionship with them.

The fanciful and dreamy creator of
the inimitable characters of Wonderland
made an absorbing pastime of delving
into the lives of both toads and ants.

His friends related that he often
avoided a social engagement, preferring
to spend hours out of doors minutely
watching the activities of a community
of bustling ants. Dodgson, a shy, dif-
ﬁdent, self-eifacing person, whosought
the society of children more often than
that of adults, enjoyed long rambling
walks by himself in the country. There
he could study the many phases of nature
undisturbed. '

It was while he was taking these habit-
ual rural jaunts, that he became well
acquainted with the small tireless crea-
tures who peopled the ant world. Their
industry, and self-government, studied
at close range, commanded his respect
and attention. It did not appear senseless
to him.

To Charles Dodgson, an ant hill was
a tiny interesting town, its inhabitants
real individuals, entitled to life and free-
dom and independence of their own.

Often he settled disputes among the
ants when friction arose, restoring peace
to their village. It interested him to have
a hand in their affairs, and frequently
he supplied the ants with food while on
these trips.

As to toads, Dodgson spent consider-
able time with them‘ also on his urban
jaunts. He was [fond of these small am—
phibians, and it was said that he could
talk to them in an odd language of his
own styling, which they seemed to under-
stand. The toads seemed to sense that
here was no mere intruder—but a friend.
Strangely, he won their conﬁdence, and
they were not afraid to approach close to
him.

There were those who regarded it as
a strange hobby, carrying tasty tid—bits
to ants, and communing with toads, but
Charles Dodgson seemed to feel that ant
and toad were as entitled to man’s com-
radeship and attention as the more pre-
possessing of God’s creatures.

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

MOTHER LOVE

Prize-winning photograph (See page 164)

 

Page 177

each side. Then it
walked daintily around
the table among the
tea things, attracting
the attention of all the
guests in the garden.

It was not often that
people in this tea gar-
den had an opportuni-
ty to see a great man
having afternoon tea
with a kitten!

Having d r u n k its
ﬁll, the kitten settled
down on the lap of the
Abbe, purring w i t h
contentment and hap-
piness.

His tea ﬁnished, and
his friends ready to
go, the Abbe was quite
sorry to leave his little
friend. When the pro-
prietor came up to his
tea table, he said to
him, “Why don’t you
take this kitten and
give it a good home
here? You have plenty
of'room for it. I don’t
see any other cat
about?”

 

A Dowry for a French Kitten
ALICE DE BEUGHEM

T is the custom for French girls to

receiVe dots, but who ever heard of a
French kitten receiving one! Here is the
story of a kitten that did.

Monsieur l’Abbe Ernest Dimnet,
French Author of “The Art of Think—
ing,” is intensely fond of animals.

In the ﬁrst chapter of his famous
book, he says that he could do his work
in perfect happiness, if, two hours ago,
he had not seen a stray cat wandering
in the Paris drizzle, with two frightened
kittens at her side.

A charming incident is told of his
interest in a homeless kitten while on a
vacation trip in the south of France
several years ago. The Abbe was sitting
with some friends in a tea garden, when
he noticed a small white kitten nearby
that looked so very thin and neglected.
Its appearance was enough to at once
attract his attention and pity.

For some reason the kitten came over
to him, climbed into his lap and looked
up imploringly into his face. It was too
much for his kind heart. He picked it
up gently and placed it on the table be—
fore him. Pouring some cream into a
saucer, he offered it to the kitten. The
starved little animal drank the cream
from his saucer, while the famous writer
drank his tea without cream.

The kitten devoured its meal greedily
until its little stomach bulged out on

“Oh, Monsieur,” he
said, “it has been hanging around here
for days. My dog does not like it. I do
not want it.” ,

“Would you give it a home if it had
a dot?” asked the Abbe.

“Well, yes,” said the proprietor, laugh-
ing, “I expect I would, but who ever
heard of a kitten with a dot?”

“Well this one has,” said the Abbe.
And he took the equivalent of $10 from
his purse, gave it to the proprietor, and
said, “This is for her dot. Take good care
of her. I will be back next year to make
inquiries.”

L’Abbe Dimnet himself tells the story
that the next year when he went to the
south of France for his vacation, sure
enough he went to this same garden for
afternoon tea, and found the kitten now
grown into a beautiful young matron
with a handsome plume-like tail. She
allowed him to stroke her, and he de-
clared that “Minnette” really recognized
him.

Cruelty to animals is one of the most
signiﬁcant vices of a low and ignoble
people. Wherever one notices them, they
constitute a sure sign of ignorance and
brutality which cannot be painted over,
even by all the evidences of wealth and
luxury. Cruelty to animals cannot exist
together with true education and true
learning.

ALEXANDER VON HUMBOLDT

What animals require, and what it is
our duty to accord them, is plain Justice.

 

 

 

 

 

;~__-—

 




 

 

“SEABISCUIT” AND HIS FIRST SEVEN LITTLE BISCUITS (See page 50)

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

KEEP YOUR DOGS

  
  

 

   

NEMA

WORM CAPSULES

Use Nema Capsules to remove
large roundworms and hook-
worms. Effective—Dependable.
F R E E Send for Nema

booklet No. 652.
Write to Animal Industry Dept, Desk N58!“
PARKE, DAVIS & 00., DETROIT, MICH.

Drug Stores Sell Parke-Davis Products

 

Compliments of
GALLUP and HADLEY
Attorneys and Counsellors-at-Law

DANA T. GALLUP 6 BEACON s'r..
EDWIN W. HADLEY BOSTON, MASS.

 

 

 

 

NEW ENGLAND ANTI-GAMBLING
ASSOCIATION. INC.
6 BEACON ST.. BOSTON. MASS.

“We compliment the M. S. P. C. A. on its
noble work to prevent cruelty to racing
animals.”

EDWIN W. HADLEY, President

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“WRASHMMW

... THEN A NURSE TOLD ME WHAT TO DO
“First cleanse thorough lywith fragrant, mildly
medicated CU ICURA Soap, then apply
emollient CUTICURA Ointment on 1rr1tat10ns
of external origini’. . . Recommended by many
nurses. Buy Cuticura today—~at all druggists!

 

 

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

Humane Films
For Rent or Sale
THE BELL OF ATRI

illustrating Longfellow’s poem,
and
IN BEHALF OF ANIMALS

showing the practical work of the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A. and the
Angell Animal Hospital.

Address
Secretary, 180 Longwood Ave.
Boston

 

 

 

 

Since 1 832

.l. s. WATERMAN & SONS, Inc.
Hithertakrra

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE

City and out—of-town service

 

 

 

 

 

 

Humane literature and Band at Mercy Sup-plies

For sale by the American Humane Education Society and the Massachusetts 5. P. C. A.,

180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass, at these prices, postpaid.

Titles in bold-face type are of books or booklets

()ur Dumb Animals, 1940, bound volume $1.00
Our Dumb Animals, 1936, 1937, and 1939

bound volume, each .................. .7?
Colored Posters, 17 X 28 inches, attrac-

tive pictures and verses, six in set .. 1.00
Colored Posters, 17 x 22 inches, eight in

the set ................5 cts. each: eight for 35 cts.

3e. Kind to Animals Blotters, 61/8 x 3% $0.50per100

About the Horse

Black Beauty (English), cloth .. ...... 50 cts.
The Horse—Treatment of Sores, etc. . . $0.60 per 100
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 5 ........ .50 “ “
The Horse’s Prayer .................... .30 “ “
How to Treat a Horse .................. .50 “ “
The Bell of Atri, poem by Longfellow .. .50 “ “

About the Dog

Beautiful Joe, new, illus., $1.50 ........ small,50 cts.
Distemper in Dogs, Dr. Schneider ...... Free
Rabies vs. Running Fits, Dr. Schneider Free

Eulogy on the Dog, by Vest, post—card
The Dog

 

$1.00 per 100
Its Care in Health and Disease .60 “ “

 

Suggestions for Feeding Dogs .......... 2.00
important Advice on Feeding the. Dog

and the Cat — A Supplement by Dr.

Rudolph H, Schneider ................ 1.00 “ “
Humane Education Leaflets, Nos. 3 and 4 .50 “ “
What the Chained Dog Says .......... .50
The Story of Barry .................... .30 “ “
“Don” and His Boy Scout Friends, J. P.

Lyons ................................. .50 “ “
Road Accidents to Dogs, 4 pp. ........ Free
Boots’ Day, Play, for two boys and three

girls ..................... 3 cts. each; five for 10‘ cts.

About the Bird

The Birds of God, 318 pp., illus ........ cloth, $0.45
Humane Education Leaflets, Nos. 1 and 2.25050 per 100
How the Birds Help the Farmer ........ .50 “ “
The Air—Gun and the Birds .............. .50 “ “
The Care of Caged Canaries ............ .3 “ “

About the (‘at

The Cat—Its Care in Health and Disease.$0.00 per 100

The Cat in Literature .................. .50 “ “
Do Not Leave Your Cat to Starve ...... .50 “ “
Mollie VVhitefoot’s Vacation ............ .50 “ “

“The Beggar Cat,” post—card, 0 cts. doz. .50 “ “
About Other Animals

The Strike at Shane‘s cloth, 30 cts. .. paper, Tcts.

For Pity's Sake ........................ paper, 5 cts.
The Great Cruelty Again, Dr. ROWIey.. Free
First Aid to Animals, Dr, Schneider, 8 pp.$1.00 per 100
Gripped in the Teeth of' Steel, 2 pp. .50 “ “

How to Kill Animals Humanely, 4- pp. 1.00
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 0, Animals .50

\Vays of Kindness ...................... .50 ‘ ‘
Humane Education Leaflet, No. 7, Farm

Animals ............................... .50 “ “
A \Vise Fish ............................ .50 “ "
Care of Rabbits ........................ .30 “ “
Hints on the Care of Cows ............ .50 “ "
Directions for the Care of Swine ........ 1.00
Professor Frog’s Lecture, 8 pp. ........ .75 “ “
\\'hy the Toad is so Useful .............. .30 “ "
Jewish and Gentile Methods of Slaugh-

tering, illus. .......................... each, 15 cts.
Vivisection—The Opinions of Famous

People, illus. ......................... each, 20 cts.

The Jack London Club

Michael Brother of Jerry, Jack London, Cloth, 75 cts.
“hat is the Jack London Club? ........ $0.30 per 100

Foreword from “Michael Brother of Jerry”$0.30 per 100
Films, Fakes and Facts, Helen Trevelyan

 

4. pp. ................................. .50 “ “
DO Wild Animals Prefer Captivity?

Helen Trevelyan, 4 pp. .............. .50 “ “
Trained Animals Cruelty Disguised,

Helen Trevelyan, 4 pp. ................ .50 “ “

Humane Education

The Animal or the Child, Dr. Rowley.. Free
Humane Education, An Activity of the
National Congress of Parents and

Teachers, by Dr. Francis H. Rowley Free
The Relation of the Home to Cilia-racter

Formation, Dr. Francis H. Rowley Free
Humane Education and Spiritual Values,

Dr. Rowley ........................... Free
For Parents and Teachers, Plan of Work Free
A Great Prophecy, Dr. Rowley ........ Free
The Humane Bulletin, for use in schools

96 pp. .................. 12 cents each; ten for $1.00

(‘are and Kindness for Our Animal

Friends, 3'2 pp., paper covers, many

illus. .................. 10 cts. each; twelve for $1.00
Kindness Picture Book, 32 pp., 10 cts.; twelve for $1.00
The Teacher’s Helper in Humane Edu-

cation, 32 pp. ........................ each, 10 cts.
An Early Start to Kindness, Lucia F.

Gilbert, 48 pp. For first and second

grades ................................ each 10 cts.
“Be Kind to Animals” pennants ........ each ‘25 cts.
The Humane Idea, Dr. Francis H.

Rowley ................................ cloth, 35 cts.
Friends and Helpers (selections for

school use) Sarah J. Eddy ............ cloth, $1.00
A Place for Pets, play ...... .2 cts. each; six for 100.

The B——K——T—A——C‘lub, play, 3 cts. each; ten for 25c.
“And a Little Child Shall Lead Them,”

play ....................... 3 cts. each; ten for 25c.
Friends of Fur and Feather, play ......
5’ cts. each; ten for 25 cts.

Humane Sunday ....................... 1c. each
I’ll Never Hunt Again, play :3 cts. each; five for 10 cts.
The Best Gift, play ........ 2 cts. each; six for 10 cts.
Humane Exercises ...................... $1.50 per 100
Humane Education the Vital Need, Dr.
Rowley, short radio address, 2 cts. each; .50
Humane Education, What to Teach and

How to Teach It ...................... .50 “
Outlines of Study in Humane Education 1.50 “
Early Lessons in Kindness or Cruelty .. .50 “ ‘
A Talk with the Teacher .............. .50 “
Our Love for Animals, a short radio

address ..................... 2 cts. each; 1.00 ‘
Bookmark, with “A Humane Prayer” .. 1.00 “ “
A Festival of Tender Mercies .......... .50 “
Need of Humane Education Societies

and Methods of Forming Them ........ .50 “ ”
How to Organize a Society for the

Protection Of Animals ................ .50 “ “
Incidents about Animals, by Geo. T.

Angell ................................. 1.00 “ ”

T’Wenty Years of Be Kind to Animals
Week, Guy Richardson ..3cts. each; ten for 25 cts.

Band of Mercy

H _)

)e Kind to Animals Buttons,” three
styles—Band of Mercy, Humane So-
ciety, or S. P C. A. ., .............. $1.00 per 100
Buttons—White star on blue ground with
gilt letters and border, one cent each 1.00 “ “

Badges, gold finish, large, 10 cts., small 5cts.
‘ j:and of Mercy” pennant ............ 35 cts.
Songs of Happy Life, with music, S.

J. Eddy ............................... 50 cts.
Songs of Happy Life (56 pages, words

only) .................................. $3.00 per 100
Band of Mercy Membership Card ...... .50 “ "
How to Form Bands of Mercy .......... .50 “ "

Does it Pay, Story of one Band of Mercy .30 “ “

Please enclose remittance with orders for less than $1

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Ave., Boston, Mass.

 

 

ﬁr; 4—. _ _ .

4 aﬁc—




 

April, 1941

Grow Your Own Catnip
DOROTHY HERBST

F, course, everybody knows that cats

like catnip and most owners know
that a liberal supply of this herb helps
to keep kitty healthy through the months
when she cannot hunt her own out of
doors. Those who prefer home-cured
herbs for their own food will readily
believe that home-dried catnip should be
more delicious. Others may have to try
it and watch kitty’s reaction before they
can possibly realize how much better it
is than the variety we buy at the drug—
store for 15 cents a half-ounce.

Catnip is easily grown. A lO-cent
packet of seed and a 10—foot row in a
sunny, well-drained garden will produce
enough for several cats. The seed should
be sown as thinly as possible in a 2-inch
trench and pressed into the soil with a
block of wood. A cover of grass clippings
or burlap will conserve the moisture and
hurry the slow-sprouting seed a bit.
Once up, the tiny plants should be un-
covered. Until they are large enough to
hold their own, they will require con-
stant weeding. After that, they will
thrive for several years with little atten-
tion.

Cut the catnip on a hot dry morning
just as it is coming into bloom. Take all
but the very lowest branches of each
plant. Rinse the dust off and remove all
yellow leaves. Tie plants in small bunches
and hang them in a shady, airy place.
A hot attic that can be ventilated is per-
fect. A protected spot on a hot porch is
also good.

The catnip will dry perfectly in about
a week under favorable conditions. When
it is inclined to crumble and drop, take
the plants down and strip off leaves,
ﬂowers and tender tips, discarding the
tough stems. Store in dry tightly cov-
ered jars and examine the contents of
each jar frequently until you are posi-
tive there is no moisture present. If a
slightly musty odor should develop in
spite of your care, pour the catnip out
on a tray and leave it. in a hot room for
several days to ﬁnish drying.

“Rusty,” the Hotel Cat

This is about the Algonquin Hotel’s
present cat, “Rusty,” Who succeeded
“Billy,” another faithful feline, who re-
mained with us for 15 years, leaving
only to move on to wherever good cats
go.

Rusty calls on the sick. It seems as if
when he misses a friend for several
days, he goes upstairs to investigate.
Thus when Mrs. Arthur Byron was ill
this winter, Rusty was a regular caller,
getting off the elevator at the right ﬂoor,
stomping up to the right door, waiting
patiently for the door to open, then going
in and having a little chat, just like any-

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

one does when calling on a sick friend.

Rusty calls on the well too and is a
frequent" caller at the apartment of
Chanova, premier danseuse of the Metro-
politan Opera; of Dean Ackerman (Co-
lumbia School of Journalism); Colonel
Allen and various other guests of the
hotel. How he knows the different ﬂoors
I can’t guess but he does know them;
the seventh from the eighth and ninth
ﬂoor from the tenth, and so on; for if
he wishes to call on the eighth ﬂoor no
amount of persuasion or coaxing will get
him off at the seventh. Not that he
makes any fuss or scene. He is too regal,
too much of a cat for anything common
like a row or angry words. He just looks
at the elevator man pityingly as if to
say “Well, after all, you are only a man
and can’t be expected to understand
these delicate matters.” Nor can he be
bothered to ride in an elevator that isn’t
going his way. If he is on the eighth
ﬂoor, wishing to go down, and the oper-
ator on the way up stops and opens the
door for him, the cat just sits and looks
at him. So the car goes up without him
and on the return trip the patient ele—
vator man stops again, opens the door,
his royal catness steps in and descends
with dignity to the ground ﬂoor.

From “Do Not Disturb,” by Frank
Case, published by Fredrick A. Stokes
Company, New York, 1940.

Animal Stories for Children
FORREST FRAZIER

rJFHE books which young people read
greatly inﬂuence their behavior
toward dumb animals. Parents should
be very careful about selecting animal
stories for children. Some of them will
teach more cruelty than kindness, par—

   
   

FROLICSOME PERSIANS OWNED BY MRS. HAROLD MAGUIRE

Page ’77

ticularly stories about working dogs.
Books of photographs showing animals
dressed as humans should be avoided.
The child invariably wants to dress his
pets, too, and the cruelty of such actions
is too obvious to be further examined.

There are a great many ﬁne books on
animals being published today. The
Rand McNally series containing “The
Book of Dogs” and “The Book of Birds,”
are splendid for the child, and they sell
for only ten cents. They are illustrated
with a ﬁne series of photographs and
color plates. “Animals Everywhere,” by
I. and E. d’Aulaire, is an excellent book‘
covering a large variety of animals por-
trayed in their native habitat. Dhan
Gopal Mukerji’s “Gay Neck” is a story
about a pigeon. It is beautifully written
and can be enjoyed by the adult as well
as the child. Albert Payson Terhune’s
stories are ﬁne for children. They will
particularly enjoy “The Heart of a Dog”
and “Buff, a Collie.” Boys like the works
of Zane Grey and they would be sure to
like his dog story, “Don.” Ernest
Thompson Seton’s “Animal Heroes” is
good for children, as are many of his
other works. To give the child a knowl-
edge of bird life he should have a copy
of Neltje Blanchan’s “Birds Every Child
Should Know.”

The above are all recent books and

they are all good. However, Anna
Sewell’s “Black Beauty” and Marshall
Saunders’ “Beautiful Joe” are, in my

opinion, still the very best animal stories
for children. They are books which will
be appreciated long after the child has
forgotten other books, and neither can
fail to increase the child’s love for
animals.

Humane Sunday, April 20; Be Kind to
Animals Week, April 21—26, 1941.

BATH, N. Y.

 

 




Page 40

A Morning Caller

Elysabeth M. Cooper

A woodpecker rose at the break of day
And he said in a ruminating way,

“I know some folks who live nearby
Who never rise till the sun is high,

“So just to prove that my heart is right
I’ll call on them when it is light.”

Now the root ot the1 house was made of tin
And the woodpecker made a terrible din,

Till the folks declared they would shoot the
bird

The very next time the noise was heard.

But the Woodpecker cocked his little red hat

And playfully answered, “You can’t do
that";

Then kept right on with his rat-a-tat-tat.

 

 

W. A. KELLY

Transportation

9 Foster St., Brighton, Mass.

 

 

 

 

Compliments of
GALLUP and HADLEY

Attorneys and Counsellors-at—Law

DANA T. GALLUP 6 BEACON ST.,
EDWIN W. HADLEY BOSTON, MASS.

 

 

 

 

 

NEW ENGLAND ANTI—GAMBLING
ASSOCIATION. lNC.
6 BEACON ST., BOSTON. MASS.
“We compliment the M. S. P. C. A. on its

noble work to prevent cruelty to racing
animals.”

EDWIN W. HADLEY, President

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

MD BABY NURSES SAY:

“At the ﬁrst sign of diaper rash or similar
chaﬁng due to external cause—apply sooth-
mg, relleving Cuticura Ointment.” Buy today
for your baby— -
at all druggists!

 

 

 

 

 

 

THIS SPACE
CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1832

J. s. WATERMAN & SONS, Inc.
linhrrtakrra

BOSTON—BROOKLINE—CAMBRIDGE

City and out-of-town service

 

 

 

 

 

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Barkless Dogs His Hobby

FRANK A. DICKSON

OWN in the Sunny South—at Wal-

terboro, South Carolina, to be exact
———Albert J. N ovit, who operates the Lady
Lafayette, one of the leading hotels
there, is the master of no less than ﬁve
thousand dogs! And the task of washing
them falls to a porter at this interesting
hostelry.

In spite of the large number of dogs
owned by Mr. Novit, the dog lover is
never bothered with barks. You see,
these canines are miniatures and lifeless
reproductions, which he keeps in the
hotel. Even on the lawn you will ﬁnd
many dogs out out of wood.

Such a unique collection was started
four years ago, when Mr. Novit’s pet
dog, a huge St. Bernard by the name of
“Lady Lafayette,” for whom the hotel is
named, was claimed by death. S0 heart-
broken was Mr. N ovit that he could not
bring himself to replace her with another
canine; therefore, dreading the recur—
rence of such a loss, he purchased a few
miniature St. Bernards.

This marked the beginning of his re-
markable collection of toy dogs. Well
familiar with his love for dogs, patrons
of the hotel got into the habit of giving
Mr. Novit miniatures. Since that time
most of the ﬁve thousand dogs have been
sent to the South Carolinian by tourists
from all sections of the United States as
well as far-away Canada. And each gift
bears the name of the donor. Further-
more, innumerable contributors have
made return trips in order to View the
ever-increasing collection which literally
ﬁlls the hotel.

So, Mr. Novit, who is the operator of
one of the few hotels in the nation which
received its name in honor of a dog, has
done much to make Walterboro attrac—
tive not only to the transients, but to his
fellow citizens. His very unusual hobby
is a favorite topic of conversation among
animal lovers the length and breadth of
the land. Yes, they are really glad that
the Southerner has actually “gone to the
dogs.”

Feb. 1941

Liberal Annuity Rates

Both of our Societies offer you semi-
annually during your lifetime a ﬁxed income
on the sum given. Depending upon your age
at the time of the gift, the rate varies from
43(270 to 9% per annum, beginning at age 45.

ADVANTAGES

It is no experiment,
There is no anxiety,
No fluctuations in rate of income,
No commissions,
No legal expenses,
No inheritance taxes,
Your gift will _ benefit the
humane objects of the
Societies,
No waste of your estate
by a will contest.

~36 * * * *

Persons of comparatively small means
may, by this arrangement, obtain a better
income for life than could be had with equal
safety by the usual methods of investment,
while avoiding the risks and waste of a will
contest and ultimately promoting the cause
of unfortunate animals.

The management of our invested funds is
a guarantee of the security of these Life
Annuities.

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A., or the
American Humane Education Society, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston, will be glad to
furnish further details.

 

 

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the first Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 416 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Office: 180 Longwood Av-
enue. Address all communications to Boston.
TERMS
One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of
the world.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct. to the oﬂice en-
title the sender to membership in elther of our two
Societies.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN
THE AlVIERICAN HUlVIANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. I". C. A.
Active Life $100 00 Active Annual
Associate Life 5000 Associate Annual
Sustaining Life 20 00 Annual
Children’s $0.75
,Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
A. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston.
Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston.

$10 00
5 00
1x00

 

our Society is “The

to Animals

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of
Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals’ ’ ; that it is the second incorporated (March, 1868)
Soc1ety for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country, and
that it has no connection with any other similar Society.

Any . bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angell
Memorial Animal Hospital, should, nevertheless, be made to the Massa-
chusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals “for the use
of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital,” as the Hospital is not incor-
porated but is the property of that Society and is conducted by it-

FORM OF BEQUEST

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
(or to The American Humane Education Society), the sum
of .......... dollars, (or, if other property, describe the property).

 

 

 




 

June, 1941

ForaPup
Marie Cronle y

He’s just a little fellow

Of a pup,

And his eyes of amber yellow
Looking up,

Promise unalloyed affection,
Void of human imperfection,
Though he’s just a little body
Of a pup,

Looking up.

Chocolate coat, all curly deep,

And flapping ears, and square-cut feet
That stumble, as they joyfully streak
Across the spacious room, to greet,

Who comes from realms beyond the street
Of puppydom, and milk, and meat . . .

And he's just a little tyke

Of a pup,

Who soon to dog's estate and like
Shall grow up,

With the light of deep affection,
In his eyes of meek reflection,
Though he’s now but just a shaver
Of a pup,

Looking up.

His Dog
MAUD DARLINGTON

E told me that he was ﬁfteen,

though he didn’t look that by two
years. For a year he had delivered the
morning paper in our neighborhood, and
always the black collie was at his heels,
as much a part of him as his pack, his
bodyguard as he traveled along the dark
streets. We had a bell on the door of
the enclosed porch which rang when it
was opened, and each morning at about
5:30 I would hear the bell ring and the
thud of the paper.

I met him late one afternoon coming
along the street with a load of the eve-
ning papers. It was January and the
temperature several degrees below zero.

“What’s the matter? Give up the
morning route?” I asked.

“No Mam,” he said. “I’m carrying the
Post, too, now.”

“And still going to school?” He nod-
ded. “It’s kind of tough, isn’t it, getting
out twice a day like this?”

“Uh, huh,” he said, “but I don’t mind
it much.”

It was then I noticed that something
was lacking and saw that the dog wasn’t
with him. “Your dog isn’t with you to-
day.”

His face grew serious. “Scotty got
hurt; got smashed up pretty bad.”

“HOW?,’

“A car hit him.” It was a tender sub—
ject. He blinked a little and stared down
at the sidewalk, kicking the snow about
with his foot. “Doc. says he’ll be all

- dog mind, of this doubling

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

right, though, but it’ll take
a little time. That’s why I’m
carrying the Post. It’s cost—
ing a dollar a day for him—-
you see he’s at the dog hos—
pital—and then there’s the
bus fare.” He saw my puz-
zled expression. “I go out
and see him every night,”
he explained. His face
brightened. “He’s where he
can see the door and Doc.
says every night at seven he
watches it, waiting for me
to come. He’d get lonesome
or homesick if I didn’t.” He
shifted the pack on his back,
a heavy load for such a
slender frame. “Well, I guess
I’d better be moving along.”

The doorbell rang as usual
the next morning and I could
hear the crunching of the
boy’s feet on the frosty side-
walk as he made his way
along the street. He was
whistling cheerfully and I
wondered, as I lay on my
warm bed, if Scotty had
some way of knowing, in his

Page 115

 

 

up of work, this bucking the frost and
snow twice a day, instead of once, and
all for him. Perhaps he did.

Animals in England
L. P. B.

Animal lovers can’t help but wonder
about the animals in England during
these troubled times when bombs fall
and all is confusion with people having
little enough time to think of themselves
and their dependents. However, reports
claim that the domestic animal of the
Britisher is not forgotten, nor neglected,
and that men, women and children are
often seen scurrying for air-raid shelters
with a dog or a cat under their arms.

Animals are on rations, as well as
people. In the zoos the chimpanzees and
gorillas who used to have fruits, eggs,
milk and even orange juice, now have,
instead, cabbage, carrots, turnips, beet-
root and bread. All of this is given in
the morning and this is their only meal
of the day; formerly they had two meals.

The reptiles (and even the one fa-
mous 130-pound crocodile) eat little in
winter months, anyway.

A corner of Monkey Hill was knocked
off by a bomb and the wise animals
quickly took cover in the tunnels be—
neath, and later were moved to Whip-
snade, an open-air zoo outside the city.

English animals seem to be able to
“take it” as well as the stoical humans.
Only one zebra has been hurt in all the
air raids and his injury was slight,
merely a small skin wound.

Man’s Best Friend in the Arctic
SIGMUND SAMETH, M. A.

OST of us, when we think of dogs

in the Arctic, call to mind the Eski-
mo dog or Siberian husky which has
served man by hauling sledges for a
thousand years. Actually, there are
many breeds of dog which serve the
Eskimos and white men who dwell in the
frozen North. Increased facilities of
communication with the outside world
have deprived the Arctic of much of its
former isolation, and with the coming of
spring and the breaking up of ice, the
transport steamers headed for Arctic
waters carry with them a high—spirited
barking cargo of pets destined for
northern ports.

“Friday,” the English setter, owned
by trader George Jerritt of Indian Har-
bor, Labrador, is a fair specimen of the
dog of the North who is gradually re-
placing his more wolf-like relative, the
husky. Mr. J erritt was eighteen months
getting Friday, for the steamer on which
his crate was shipped failed to make the
Labrador port of Indian Harbor before
freeze-up time. But a year and a half’s
delay only made Friday a more precious
package of canine liveliness when he ar—
rived, a mature dog instead of the puppy
expected. He had been cared for in the
interval by a relative of Mr. Jerritt’s in
Newfoundland.

The famous Cardinal Newman once re-
marked that “we know less of animals
than of angels.”

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

June, 191,1

This turtle is deﬁnitely known to be
at least 171 years of age, and is regarded
as the world’s oldest living turtle; it was
presented to the natives of Tongabatu,
as a peace gift, by the famous explorer,
Captain James Cook, when he discovered
the island in the year 1770. Ever since
then the turtle has been regarded as a
sacred creature by the natives. It is now
very feeble and has difﬁculty in crawling,
and so that it can be protected from all
dangers the ancient creature is kept in
the closely—guarded and spacious gar-
dens surrounding the Royal Palace, the
residence of Queen Salote, ruler of the
Tonga Islands, at Nukualofa, the capi-
tal of Tongabatu Island. The old turtle
is allowed the freedom of the beautiful
Royal gardens, but nowadays the vet—
eran spends most of its time sleeping
in the sun.

The only other turtle ever known to
live beyond the age of 150 years was
“Sopa,” who died in London (England)
a few years ago from" an attack of inﬂu—
enza at the ripe old age of 152 years.

Another notable animal ancient lives
in Australia; this is a half—draught
horse, known as “Darky,” owned by a
farmer in the State of Victoria. Darky
is sixty years of age, and is believed to
be the world’s oldest living horse. So
far as is known, only one other horse
has ever lived longer than sixty years;
this was “Old Billy,” who belonged to
a farmer in England. He was just over
sixty-three when he died.

Elephants are also long—lived animals,
but although many persons believe that
they may live to well over 100 years of
age, no elephant has ever been known to
attain that age. Sixty-ﬁve years is be—
lieved to be the record age for an ele—
phant; this was the age of a famous
animal, known as “Jessie,” who died in
Australia ﬁve years ago. She was born
in an African jungle, but one day when
she was only a few weeks old some na-
tives saw her alone in the bush, ap-
parently lost, surrounded by a pack of
lions. After the lions had been driven
off the helpless little animal was rescued
by the natives who later sold her to a
visitor from Australia.

Australia also has one of the most
notable ancients in the bird kingdom;
this is “Cocky,” a white cockatoo owned
by a resident of the State of Queensland.
Cocky is just over 100 years of age, and
is regarded as one of the oldest living
birds in the world. When only a few
days old he was rescued, in a half-
drowned condition, from a ﬂooded river
in Queensland in the year 1840. Cocky is
an excellent talker, but for some un—
known reason he has an aversion to red—
haired ladies!

Join the Jack London Club, and
help stop the cruelty in training ani-
mals for stage or screen.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Bandits in Disguise
McLeod Orforol

Two little black kittens sat still in their chair

With never a sign of their mischievous flair;

Their tiny green eyes gave no hint of their
plan

To stir up a rumpus as little cats can.

A dangling green vine hung a few feet
away,

But these little kittens were harmless today;

Then all of a sudden without fuss or sound

One little black kitten was off in a bound.

A quick sword-like thrust and there on the
floor

Lay part of the vine which was hanging
before;

The lady in anger gazed straight at their
chair

But two little kittens were now sitting there.

Good Work in Georgia

Fine work is being done in humane
education in Georgia. Early in May the
Georgia Humane Association held its
annual meeting when the president, Dr.
Emory R. Parke, showed a moving pic-
ture illustrating the good effects that
humane education has had on rural chil-
dren through the schools, 4-H Clubs, and
from appropriate reading matter. Geor-
gia has adopted books for teachers to use
in teaching this subject and wonderful
progress is being made. Fine support is
being given by the press of the state.

Our readers are urged to clip from
“Our Dumb Animals” various articles
and request local editors to republish.
Such copies will be made good by us
upon application.

 

 

 

N'OW, JUST WHAT IS HE THINKING?

Page 117

Handle with Care I

F. J. WORRALL

IT is surprising that although animals

are kept, either as pets or as a means
of proﬁt to their owners, few people seem
to know how to handle them. In many
cases the idea seems to exist that it does
not matter how an animal is picked up.
Hence, injury is often inﬂicted.

How often one sees a puppy or kitten
roughly handled because of a lack of
knowledge on the part of the youngster!
The proper treatment of animals, when
kept for the young as pets, should form
part of the education of children. With
the right training in this respect, not
only much unintentional cruelty would be
averted but a greater love for dumb
creatures would be instilled which is of
great importance in character develop-
ment.

Puppies and kittens are very popular
as pets, but they are too often carried or
dragged about in a manner which causes
needless pain. It is quite easy to teach
children all the rules of kindness to ani—
mals and the natural outcome of such
training is well worth the time and effort
that is invested on the part of the parent.

It is the general idea that puppies and
kittens should be held by the scruff of
the neck. This is not right. Not only the
shape of the animal may be spoiled by
such handling but internal injury may
result therefrom. The proper way is to
place the hand gently beneath the fore-
part of the body. In that way there is
no unnecessary strain on any part and
yet it insures perfect comfort to the
animal.

Animals have feelings just as humans
do and, whether kept as pets or for
proﬁt, they are entitled to kindness and
proper l i v i n g conditions.
They should have regular
feedings; fresh water al-
ways at hand; and enough
out-of—door life and activity
to insure good health. A
brush, used only for such
purpose, will keep coats soft
and shining and will also aid
in good feeling and in the
prevention of hair shedding
about the house. As a matter
of fact, animals dislike to be
held as a general rule and
no child should be permitted
to “maul” them.

Thus, ignorance on the
part of the child and lack of
forethought on the part of
the parent result, not only
in needless cruelty but, per-
haps far more important, in
thoughtless and careless dis-
regard of an opportunity for
the groundwork of real char-
acter-building.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Sept. 1941

First Aid Post for Animals

ROM a long communication received

from Eric Hardy, F. Z. S., who is in
charge of an official First Aid Post for
Animals in Liverpool, where there have
been more than 300 raids, we quote the
following paragraphs which illustrate
the work of the NARPAC (National Air
Raids Precautions for Animals Com—
mittee)——

To have ﬁrst aid posts for animals in
every district of the danger towns like
Liverpool, London, Manchester, Birm-
ingham, etc., has/been accomplished by
voluntary work and voluntary funds,
under official Government and police
support, but without Government funds.
So that our equipment is limited to con-
veniently supplied materials. Each NAR—
PAC ﬁrst aid post is provided with the
standard ﬁrst aid for small animals out—
ﬁt, comprising a 10-oz bottle of anti-
septic, an 8-oz bottle of disinfectant for
cleansing wounds; one 6—oz bottle of
boracic acid eye lotion; one 3—oz tin of
zinc oxide ointment; 4-oz jar of tannic
acid jelly (2%) for burns; one bottle of
25 5—gr. sedative tablets for dogs with
hysteria and panic (generally caused by
excitable owners who could do with the
tablets themselves!); a 5-yard spool of
1" adhesive tape and another of 2” tape;
a dozen safety pins; four wooden splints
(12”x11/2”, 9”x1”, 6”x%”, and 4"x1”);
a dozen bandages 6 yards long and 4”
wide, and a dozen 6 yards long and 2”
wide; 4 oz. of cotton wool; a dozen gauze
tissue squares, 6”, for placing over
wounds before dressings; and a hank of
1” linen tape.

That is practically all that is neces-
sary for the main animal casualties in
air raids on our towns and farms, our
roads, villages and our animals. Of
course the bigger, but far fewer, central
clinics and hospitals have their lethal
chambers, their humane killers, their
operating tables, and so forth, where
more time and attention and skill can be
given to the animals; but in the rough
and tumble work beside a collapsed build—
ing, or a burned wooden building practi-
cal experience in handling animals counts
far more than an impressive show of
shining new instruments and white coats.
If an animal is brought in with a broken
leg, it is much better for the ﬁrst aid post
to be able to put the limb in a splint on
the spot and ease the pain immediately,
and then to get an ambulance or car to
take the dog to the central animals’ clinic
where the veterinary surgeons can put
that broken leg, when set, into a plaster
of paris cast and so give the chance of
normal life to the animal’s future.

On the whole, however, the battle for
Britain has had far less toll of our
animal life than we feared before the
war. The horror of poison gas has not
yet come; but we are prepared for it.

OUR DUMB

ANIMALS

 

Page 1’73

 

GOVERNOR SALTONSTALL OF MASSACHUSETTS (left

   

: 'We.-.

) CONGRATU-

LATING PRESIDENT FRANCIS H. ROWLEY OF THE MASS. S. P. C. A.
~ UPON HIS RECENT BIRTHDAY
Telegrams of congratulation were received from U. S. Senator David I. Walsh
and from Mayor Maurice J. Tobin of Boston

If we cannot provide animals with gas
masks we can provide them with gas
proof kennels, hutches, cages and cham—
bers. We have learned that most do-
mestic animals take their fear or con-
ﬁdence from their owners, and much
dependsupon the attitude of the human
beings with the animals when the sirens
wail out, or the anti—aircraft cracks up,
or the bombs fall. Many a warning is
not followed by any ﬁring or bombing
because the raiders approaching the
area never reach it. But we are always
prepared for them. Animals go on graz-
ing in the ﬁelds because until they have
been hit by shrapnel or splinters they do
not associate fear with the alarms—they
have nobody to tell them, as we have.
But, generally, if an animal at a zoo or
on a farm is hit by shrapnel or hurt by
blast, it associates the pain with the
raids, and takes alarm at each recurring
raid. Yet there is no depreciation of wild
life in our countryside, excepting fewer
birds along the coasts and in country
places disturbed by troops or aerial
activity.

Endowed stalls and kennels are
needed in the Angel] Memorial Animal
Hospital. Payments of thirty-ﬁve dol-
lars for a kennel or seventy-ﬁve dollars
for a stall will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name.

The Dog Has His Friends

A dog-lover sent us recently an article
published in The New York Sun, entitled
“An Essay on Dogs,” by Geoerge E.
Sokolsky. The “Essay” was a cold—
blooded, bitter attack on the dog he
was a general nuisance in the home, on
the street and everywhere else.

We wrote the Editor of The Sun and
said, “I am sure that a great multitude
of your readers have resented the article
against one of the best friends man ever
had or ever will have. Too many ﬁne
things have been said about him through
the long centuries by some of the world’s
noblest c h a r a c t e r s — poets, artists,
thinkers, even scientists. Cannot some-
thing be done to counteract that
article?”

 

The following is the reply from the
Editor of The Sun, which I am sure our
readers will enjoy:

“The ‘Valuable friend’ who sent you
the clipping of Mr. Sokolsky’s ‘Essay on
Dogs’ would have been still more valu-
able if he had sent you clippings of the
many letters, printed also on the edi—
torial page of The Sun, from indignant
readers who charged Sokolsky with
every crime short of treason and, in at
least one case, advised him to jump off
the Washington Bridge.”

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

April, 1941

I have traveled overseas and at least
over two-thirds of the world, with my
beloved Mistress. I have seen my Mis-
tress adopt many other little dogs that
basked in her love as I always have, but
she was always very careful to let me
know very deﬁnitely, that my place in her
affections was never altered.

“Little Joe and I both have had experi-
ences at the Hospital for Animals and I
must say that few probably realize how
much such a place offers of comfort and
necessary attention that we dumb ani-
mals do require. In my own case I feel so
much at home in such a place, where only
loving understanding is allowed, I take
this opportunity to express my wish that
all would learn more of the great work
that is being done at such places, and the
great necessity for outside work to ac-
quaint all with the needs of us helpless
ones.”

Seeing-Eye Dog Refused

Transportation
P H 1 L I P E A R L E

F interest and importance to all dog-

lovers is the problem that has arisen
in Long Island over the refusal to allow
“Sally,” a Seeing-Eye shepherd, to trav—
el on the subway with her master. Mr.
Losch, a former mechanical engineer,
lost his sight in an accident seven years
ago, and for the last two years has been
entirely dependent on the eyes of Sally
to guide him about the city and on and
off trains in the pursuit of his business.
A few days ago a station agent at Flush-
ing refused to allow the dog to board the
train.

Mr. Losch manufactures leather belts
and suspenders and has to travel a good
deal to make sales possible. “No business
man,” he says, “takes his eyes out when
he goes to work and leaves them on the
dresser. This is just what I am expected
to do, if I am to leave Sally home.”

A special committee has been formed
to take up the matter with the city coun-
cil. They are to demand that a special
bill be passed enabling properly trained
dogs belonging to blind persons to travel
on all subways.

It is understood that members of the
Board of Transportation are sympathetic
with Mr. Losch and hope to make an
amendment to the existing law so that
these “eyes of the blind” may accompany
their masters on all subway trains.

Greater Love Hath No Man

Editorial in Boston Traveler

The human heart has lately been open
to question; human loyalties, human
sympathies, human love. “Laddie” still
lives. Joyfully we record that a small
story about an obscure and aging dog,
printed in our paper from day to day as
he traveled painfully to rejoin his mas-
ter, has evoked more response from our

  

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

“I’M LOOKING FORWARD TO BE
KIND TO ANIMALS WEEK”

 

readers than great world events.

Laddie, 9 years old, fell ill when his
master was drafted. He would not eat
nor drink. His master could not go to
him, so the United States army ruled
that the dog might go to its master.

Four months of suffering had greatly
weakened Laddie. He started his long
trip by plane and completed it by auto-
mobile, managing to live out the long
journey to Fort 0rd, Calif., where he is
now reunited with the one human being
he loved.

Nazi transport planes loaded with
doom ﬂy thick in the skies over the Bal-
kans; England severs diplomatic rela—
tions with Rumania—but anxious voices
over the wires to our news room ask only
about Laddie.

The answer is simple: Laddie is real.
Laddie is love and loyalty that. has no
price, that can’t be bargained for, that
can’t be exchanged for proﬁt.

Laddie is a symbol for the great hu—
man need for what is good and true,
buried in every human heart. We are
ashamed for the Heinlens, the Quislings,
the Lavals of this world—humans all,
who set up expediency in place of love.

More signiﬁcant than this new dem-
onstration of a dog’s love for man is a
renewed demonstration of man’s love for
a little dog whose heart was broken.

The telephone calls we have received in
the Traveler oﬂice from day to day have
done much to restore our faith in human
beings.

We thought we’d share it with you.

EDITOR’S NOTE: As all our readers know, Laddie

survived but a day or two after this touching tribute
was written.

 

  
 
 

Page 7 5

The Samoyede Dog
L E O K O C H

HE Samoyede dog is one of the old-

est domestic breeds in the world.
The Samoyede people, from which he
gets his name, were nomads of the coun-
try from the Yenisei River in Siberia
westward to the Pechora River in Rus-
sia, who are a remnant of one of the
earliest Mongolian tribes of Central
Asia, and there is evidence that they
migrated to the Arctic with their dogs
at least 1,000 years before the Christian
era.

They have been known to explorers
for many centuries as mild, kindly peo-
ple, manifesting an extraordinary love
for their beautiful dogs, which they
treat as members of the family.

Ages of sharing the table and the bed
of his masters have given the Samoyede
dog an unusual background of human
association. Love and understanding of
humankind, and an unfailing sense of
trust and loyalty, are a part of every
Samoyede dog’s character.

The Samoyede is easily trained to any
task. He does not comprehend violent
treatment—does not need it. In the work
of reindeer herding in his homeland he
has been educated to an almost unbe—
lievable degree by voice alone. No Samo-
yede tribesman ever strikes a dog. With
all his defensive strategy the Samoyede
never becomes “snappy” and is always
reliable as a child’s companion. The
qualities of intelligence and endurance
have led to the use of these dogs as
transport by most European expeditions
to the Arctic and the Antarctic.

Most of the Samoyede strains of Eng—
land and America are related to veteran
sledge dogs of the several European ex—
peditions. They carry the true Samoyede
traits and physical vigor and splendid
character and are most reliable pets.
They are affectionate always but never
fawning, courageous but never ﬁghting
except in self-defense, digniﬁed but full
of play.

Their outstanding virtue perhaps is
their capacity for companionship, their
quiet, friendly manner in all surround—
ings, whether at home or abroad, on
their own premises, or on the show-
bench.

The Samoyede thrives in any climate.
He can stand the coldest winter weather.
In summer, when he has shed his woolly
under-coat, his coarse outer-coat seems
to act as a protection against the sun.
He looks best with less attention than
most dogs. He is not only extremely
hardy, but he is naturally well-mannered.
He is not nervous nor a persistent
barker. He can live in happiness wher-
ever he receives good care. He has been
correctly nicknamed “Smiling Sam” and
has also been called “The dog of the
Czars” in his own native land.




 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 28

Kindred
Arthur

I never see a dog in the street
Without a kindly word to greet,
Or pass a cat upon my way
Without some friendly thing to say;
And generally the dog replies
With friendliness of tail and eyes,
And pussy frequently will purr,
Permitting me to fondle her,

Or if a patient horse I see

I’m proud to greet him, ”Hullo, Gee!”
Perhaps he simply looks at me,

Or stirs a hoof and winks an ear
To show he likes the word of cheer.

L.Salmon

There is so much I want to say,

Not simply wishing them good-day.

I want to tell them how I care

For what they feel and what they bear;
I want to drive the message in

That they and l are really kin,

And that the virtues they can claim
Must often put my pride to shame;
And tell them, in my human way

I'd like to be as good as they.

A Haven for Lost Dogs

EDWIN DIEHL

REFUGE for homeless dogs near

Morristown, N. J., has been main—
tained for more than ﬁfteen years by
New Jersey’s Mother Hubbard, Mrs.
Jane Crosby, whose humane work in car-
ing for stray canines has carried her
fame across the continent.

Mrs. Crosby, who is vice-president of
the New Jersey Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals, began her
dog-saving avocation in 1934 when she
was living in Millburn, N. J. She started
a private pound to care for Stray dogs
rather than see them meet death at the

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

hands of the local dog warden, but her
project took on such proportions that she
had to obtain larger premises and could
no longer carry the work as a hobby.

In 1937 she leased an estate in Whip-
pany, N. J., and in three years there
taking care of stray and homeless ani-
mals she spent $10,000 to provide food
and shelter for more than 6,000 dogs.
Mrs. Crosby, a former opera star, has
said: “I have gone through everything,
even to the extent of selling my furni-
ture and valuables to give homes to the
dogs. Do you know it costs me $65 a
week to feed the dogs? My husband died
just before I began my work, leaving me
an $18,000 insurance beneﬁt, but I have
had to use all of that to provide for the
dogs. But I love dogs and would be more
than willing to expend double that
amount again, if I had it, to give these
poor dogs a good place in which to live.”

In the period of time she has main-
tained this haven for homeless dogs she
has established an almost state—wide net-
work of agents who are on the lookout
for stray dogs. Policemen and ﬁremen
all over New Jersey keep their eyes open
for homeless canines, and when they cap-
ture one they send it to Mrs. Crosby
rather than to a local dog pound where
it would probably be put to death.

The number of dogs that Mrs. Crosby
has at her haven at present is about 130,
but it has reached nearly 200. Many
persons come to Mrs. Crosby for a pet,
but before the dog lover will turn the
animal over she investigates the per-
son’s character thoroughly. No one just
drops around to her place to pick up a
dog; he ﬁrst has to prove his worthiness
to foster a pet.

Please remember the American Hu-
mane Education Society, Boston, in
your will.

 

Feb. 191,1

So You’re Going to Buy
aDog?
JOSEPH CROUGHWELL

HOSE people who have never had a

dog but who are planning to acquire
one in the near future often think that
it is a simple matter to purchase the dog
and just let it go at that. Such an atti—
tude is most certainly wrong. There are
problems to be thought out before ac-
quiring the dog and others which will
arise after the dog has entered its new
home.

First, before buying the dog, consider
your surroundings. There is little sense
in bringing a police dog, Great Dane, or
other large—breed dog into a small apart-
ment in a large city or town. Both the
person and the dog would suffer from
the cramped surroundings. Large dogs
need plenty of room and a place in the
country or a large back yard in the city
would be more ideal for the large-breed
dog. There are many small-breed dogs
that the apartment dweller may choose
from.

One must also remember that if he is
going to purchase a small puppy he must
expect a little trouble in housebreaking
and teaching the puppy not to destroy
household furnishings. Many people for
this reason prefer to purchase a dog that
is a little older and perhaps has already
been broken in. However, I would person—
ally prefer to raise my dog from puppy-
hood and under my own teachings. There
is nothing so comical as a puppy in the
early days of its life. It is well worth the
little extra trouble it may cause you.

After the dog has arrived at his new
home he should be given time to become
acquainted with his new surroundings.
A comfortable bed and eating and drink-
ing utensils should be awaiting him. The
type of food you feed your dog will have
a great bearing on his later life. Most
dog dealers give a diet list with a pur-
chase and this diet should be adhered to.

Before walking your new dog in pub-
lic you should obtain a dog license and
thus live up to the laws governing dogs
in your particular community.

Patience is a virtue and one must
acquire it in handling his dog. Losing
your temper and striking or screaming
at your dog will instill fear into him and
cause him confusion in trying to carry
out your commands. You will ﬁnd as
the weeks go by that your dog will be-
come more and more attached to you and
you will wonder how you ever got along
without a dog for so many years.

Our readers are urged to clip from
“Our Dumb Animals” various articles
and request local editors to republish.
Such copies will be made good by us
upon application.

 




 

May, 1941

Two Bridegrooms

Mabel G. Parrish

Hi-ho, Mr. Oriole,
In your gaudy coat!

If you’re not more careful
You’ll burst your throat.

I know, you gay young fellow,
That some place quite near by

You have a lovely little wife—-
But so have l.

I know you're building for her
A nest to suit her needs;
Mine has a nest, so l
Plant flower seeds.

But you have one advantage,—
Your black and orange dress
And songs are telling all the joy

I can’t express.

So, Mr. Oriole, strut around
And show what you can do,

Just trill and sing and whistle
For my wife, too.

Freak of Nature
ROBERT LAMSER

HOW would you like to have a home
in a cactus plant? Probably you
would not. Yet there ”is a species of
woodpecker in northern Mexico that
often makes its nest in the stalk of one
of the large cactuses, the giant cereus.
Undismayed by the spines that cover the
trunk, the bird clears a space, and with
enormous labor, digs a short tunnel and
a ﬂask—shaped cavity in the tough ﬁbrous
wood. Both the male and the female
work at the task. They use the nest for
several years, unless the growth of the
plant disturbs it. Such a nest is safe
from all natural enemies.

Occasionally this handsome woodpecker
digs its tunnel in the trunk of a palm
instead of a cactus—a circumstance
likely to lead to the destruction of the
tree. After the young have ﬂown and
the nest is left empty, the small seeds of
the wild ﬁg are often carried into it by
birds and bats. The moisture of the
rainy season causes the seeds to germi—
nate, and to grow tendrils that before
long reach the ground and take root. The
wild ﬁg grows rapidly, until in a few
years it wholly envelops the palm and
suffocates it.

“Whoever makes a garden
Has, oh, so many friends;
The glory of the morning,
The dew when daylight ends;
The wind and rain and sunshine,
And dew and fertile sod,
Whoever makes a garden

Works hand-in-hand with God."

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 85

Not so Bad as They Seem

ALVIN M.

PETERSON

‘Photograph by the Author

ED-WINGED b 1 a c kb i r d s and
Rgrackles do some harm, particu—

larly in the Middle West, chieﬂy to
grain crops. The birds congregate in
large ﬂocks in late summer and autumn
and love to visit cornﬁelds when the
grain is in the milk stage, feasting upon
the delicious kernels and doing much

The cowbird is despised because it
never builds a nest but lays its eggs in
the cradles of other birds, leaving the
incubation of its eggs and the care of
its young to the birds it imposes upon.
It sometimes removes the rightful eggs
to make room for its own, and the young
cowbirds are greedy, grow rapidly, and

 

YOUNG ENGLISH SPARROWS

harm in a short time. A little vigilance
then is necessary for a few days. The
best way to check the birds is to shoot
into the ﬂocks and frighten them away.

The remainder of the year both red-
wings and grackles are useful. Nearly
one-third of the grackle’s yearly food
consists of harmful insects. It feeds
practically nothing but insects to its
young, and it loves to follow the plow
and eat the grubworms and other small
creatures uncovered. Forty—ﬁve per cent
of its food consists of grain, but much of
this is waste grain gleaned from the
ground.

Twenty—six per cent of the red—Wing’s
food consists of animal matter, insects
mainly, and 74 per cent of vegetable
matter. The red-wing deserves a special
credit mark for the weed seeds it
destroys, nearly all its food in winter
consisting of them, the percentage for
the year being 57. In autumn and early
spring large ﬂocks of red-wings and
grackles are to be seen on the ground in
open woods, ﬁelds and pastures, devour—
ing waste grain, weed seeds, grass—
hoppers, and other things that either are
useless or actually harmful. At such
times it is sheer folly to molest them.

sometimes crowd the rightful occupants
from a nest. Aggressive birds like rob—
ins, catbirds, jays and thrashers no
doubt attack and drive them off, while
brown thrashers also remove the cow—
birds’ eggs they ﬁnd in their nests.
Many birds desert their nests after cow-
birds have laid in them, leaving the runt
eggs to their fate, whereas yellow warb—
lers build additional stories to their
cradles and bury the cowbirds’ eggs in
the lower part or parts.

It is not necessary to shoot cowbirds
to save other birds from their imposi—
tions, since all one needs to do is remove
the runt eggs from the nests of desirable
birds with a twig. The writer has re-
moved the eggs of cowbirds from many
nests and thus saved their owners much
trouble and saved the lives of many of
their youngsters.

Cowbirds are useful otherwise. They
often follow the plow and eat the insects
uncovered. More often they are to be
seen on the ground near grazing cattle,
feeding upon waste grain, weed seeds
and insects. It has been learned by stom-
ach examinations that cowbirds destroy
many grasshoppers, army worms and
cutworms, and that 22 per cent of their

 

 




 

 

 

COMPLIMENTS OF

Abbott Laboratories

150 CAUSEVVAY STREET

Boston, Mass.

Telephone, CAPi’roI 3820

 

 

PEABODY MASTER
PRINTERS

Catalogs - Office Forms

Books - Publications

47 PORTLAND STREET
BOSTON

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THIS SPACE CONTRIBUTED

 

 

 

 

COMPLIMENTS OF

UNITED STATES
DYESTUFF CORP.

55 BATTERYMARCH STREET
BOSTON

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

COMPLIMENTS
ARMSTRONG CO. .,
0F WETHERELL BROS. (:0.
North Station EDWIN DRESSER STEEL
Boston, Mass. 26 BLACKSTONE STREET Cambridge Mass.
Cambridge Mass.
The Paddocks

LAMB & RITCHIE CO.
Sheet Metal

250 ALBANY STREET
Cambridge Mass.

 

John Smith, Proprietor

CHILDREN OUR SPECIALTY
Horses Boorded - For Sale - For Hire
BLUE HILLS
Route 128, near Hough’ron’s Pond
1010 Hillside - BLUhills 1884

 

 

 

FRANK S. LARKIN

Plumbing

Telephone, LlBer’ry 1280
263 SUMMER STREET

Boston Mass.

 

 

 

 

MARTIN’S RIDING SCHOOL

SADDLE HORSES For Hire -— For Rent
and Bearded — ALL BOX STALLS

250 WOBURN STREET. DIEDFORI)
l‘IYStic 4140

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

F. Callahan & Co.
7 HOVEY AVENUE
Cambridge Mass.

 

 

 

COMPLIMENTS OF

SEXToN CAN (10., Inc.
31 CROSS STREET
Everett Mass.

Telephone, EVEre’r’r 2500

 

 

 

 

 

 

COMPLIMENTS OF

Chauncey Depew Steele
COPLEY PLAZA HOTEL

Copley Square
Boston Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




AUGUST 1941

 

 

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY

FOR THE PREVENTIONOF CRUE

LTY

A
w
R
E .
M
A
E
H

, T

g

HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

TO ANIMALSQ

 




 

 

Page ’74

Backroad Meeting
Harry Elmore Hurd

I watched them coming through the snow-
A bent Old man and dog together——
I thought a man so old should know
That stoves are made for stormy weather.

The dog, impatient, ran ahead,

Then whirled and ran back to his master.
It was as though the hound-dog said,

It would be fun to travel faster.

“We're having quite a spell of weather,"
The old man ventured when we met.
“This snow is lighter than a feather:
These flakes twirl like a minuet."

Pointing to a stand of birch,

He said, “They look like alabaster.

The woods are silent as a church

Without a flock . . . without a pastor . . .

I!

I felt ashamed that I had thought

The man too frail for stormy weather,

30 hurried toward my pasture lot

And left them . . . going on . . . together . . .

“Li Chung Chang” Does
His Bit
VIOLA COLLINS HOGARTY

I CHUNG CHANG” of Pasadena,
is a brown and tan Pekingese to
whom Judge Geary, his master, willed ten
dollars a month for so long as he lived.
People who inherit money pay an inheri-
tance tax. Why should Li Chung be
exempt, asked the tax collector’s ofﬁce?
The state needed the money.
There were no laws covering a dog’s

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

inheritance. N 0 one knew how much Li
Chung might inherit. “What life expec~
tancy has a Pekingese?” veterinary sur-
geons and small pet hospitals were asked.
Making a new law for a particular case
is not easy. Pasadena decided to wait
and see what San Francisco did about
a cat willed twenty-ﬁve dollars a month
for life. That would take ﬁguring if it’s
true a cat has nine lives. Before San
Francisco’s case was decided, Pussy
strayed. No cat, no inheritance, no tax.
Pasadena had to decide it’s own case.

According. to dog ofﬁcials, a dog’s ﬁrst
year is equal to ten years for a human
being. Each additional year is equiva-
lent to eight years. Li Chung Chang
being four would, if he were human, be
thirty-four. According to charts, the
normal expectancy of a person thirty-
four is forty years, so Chang might be
expected to live ﬁve years more and in
ﬁve years he would inherit six hundred
dollars. Thus decided Jay D. Rhinehart,
president of Pasadena’s Bar Association,
who handled the case.

Who would pay this tax amounting to
thirty dollars? The court decided the
heirs to Judge Geary’s estate should pay.
The tax collector’s ofﬁce was satisﬁed and
California was richer by that sum.

Li Chung Chang wrinkled his small
pug nose and sniffed. The bone at his
home on South Euclid avenue was of
more importance than the law.

Endowed stalls and kennels are
needed in the Angel] Memorial Animal
Hospital. Payments of thirty-ﬁve dol-
lars for a kennel or seventy-five dollars
for a stall will insure a suitable marker
inscribed with donor’s name.

 

WHAT A GOOD HOME WE’VE FOUND!

April, 191,1

“What a Good Home We’ve

Found”

ELIZABETH N. LOCKE

ES, Please! let us threespeak.
“Since I, ‘Pal,’ am the biggest dog,
although the youngest one, being only
one and a half years old, I speak ﬁrst.

“My Mistress recognized me at ﬁrst
as an intelligent and willing student so
I was sent to the Dog Training School.
I made good progress and was often
recognized as a star pupil. Just a week
previous to my return to school after a
long vacation I was in a busy city
with my beloved Mistress, taking my
“daily dozen” exercises. After the usual
number of runs I ran! up to my Mistress
for approval and she said I could try it
once more before going into the house.
So with great joy I rushed off, knowing
her admiring eyes were following me,
which made me very proud of myself.”

Here ends Pal’s own story. Just as he
was leaping with joy, a hidden icy place
caused him to skid off the curbing, just
as a ponderous truck lost grip and
crashed into the curbing. Pal never knew
of the disaster; he was unconscious from
the terrible impact. He had done his bit,
giving‘all love and asking no returns
beyond a loving pat.

Little Joe: “I am the little woolly toy
dog. Everyone considers me only a toy,
except of course my beloved Mistress.
She has always had me well cared for.
One night as my Mistress was taking us
three out for our usual evening stroll,
while crossing a busy city street, the
congestion was so great that even as I
was joyously leaping along, but a bit be-
hind the others, before I could sense it
I was snatched up by an unknown man.
As I loved everyone, ever knowing only
love from my Mistress, I didn’t object.
Well, it is diﬁicult to tell you how little
some people know as to the needs of a
dog. I can only say that my experiences
from late Saturday evening until Monday
forenoon are beyond description in heart-
ache and loneliness.

“In the meantime my Mistress was in
as great distress as I, looking for me.
And everyone should forever be grate-
ful for the beneﬁt of the public press.
An advertisement offering a generous re-
ward, which my Mistress immediately
placed in at least three Boston papers,
bore fruit at once. By Monday noon I
was taken to my beloved Mistress’s ad—
dress. From this experience, I only hope
I may help all other lovers of dogs to be
aware of the beneﬁts of most immediate
steps being taken in close check-ups of
all dumb animals.

Buddy speaks: “I am eleven years old,
although I dare say few would believe
it. My age helps better to tell how the
right kind of treatment and the real love
that is a dog’s greatest need, does pay.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 138

@1112 13mm nf ﬂarrrg nr

Euninr ﬁumanr imam

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary
E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer

PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living crea-
tures and try to protect them from
cruel usage.

The American Humane Education So-
ciety will send to every person who forms
a Band of Mercy of thirty members, and
sends the name chosen for the Band and the
name and post—ofﬁce address of the presi-
dent who has been duly elected, special
Band of Mercy literature and a gilt badge
for the president. See inside front cover
for prices of literature and Band of Mercy
Supplies.

NEW BAND-S OF MERCY
Six hundred and forty-two new

Bands of Mercy were reported during
May. These were distributed as follows:

Rhode Island . . . . . . . . . ......... 291
New York . . . . ............... . 123
Massachusetts . . . . ............ 86
Florida ............. . . ....... 57
Georgia ............. . ........ 46
Pennsylvania ..... . ........... . 32
Texas .............. . ..... . 5
Illinois ................ . ..... 2

642

Total number Bands of Mercy or-
ganized by Parent American Society,
259,244.

The Library Story Hour

IFTY-SIX children from the ﬁrst to

sixth grades of the schools in Sims-
bury, Conn., met at the local library on
May 19 for a Be Kind to Animals story
hour under the direction of Mrs. Everett
Godfrey. The boys and girls brought toy
animals representing animals in books
such as “Peter Rabbit,” “Lad” a dog,
etc., for a week’s story book animal ex-
hibit. The national Be Kind to Animals
poster was on display. Pictures of the
scene were used in the Hartford news-
papers. Miss Elna M. Hall, librarian,
is to be congratulated upon her enter-
prise in holding this unique gathering
which may well be duplicated in many
other libraries to promote humane edu-
cation.

Fitchburg School Prizes

More than 500 pupils in high and jun-
ior high schools of Fitchburg, Massachu-
setts, wrote essays on kindness to ani-
mals this season in the Putnam Humane
Prize essay contest. Seventy-one prizes,
of $2 each, were awarded. The essay by
Evelyn Ward of the Fitchburg High
School was printed in the Sentinel.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

J uly, 1941

 

CHARACTERISTIC SCENE IN OLD MEXICO

 

Practical Kindness

ROM a young lad comes this little
story:

One noon as I was coming to school
with two girls whom I knew well, we
heard a cat meowing as if he’d been in
trouble. We stopped and called him to
see if he belonged to someone we knew,
but he didn’t belong to anyone around
here. We kept on walking and he fol—
lowed us.

One of the girls picked him
up and we brought him to
school. He was thin and looked
sick. A while after he was in
school we found a sore under
his throat as if he had been
shot. Our teacher told us to
keep him and nurse him back
to health. We named him
“Tiger,” for he was striped
nearly like a real tiger. His
sore is nearly well now. We’re
very proud of him now that
he’s getting well.

Every morning we say a
prayer for the animals. It’s like
this:

“Our Father, help us to be
kind, help us to put ourselves
in the animal’s place. Help us
to do as we would be done by,
to ease the burdens of the
weary, to remember those in
bonds as bound with them, to
speak for those who cannot
speak for themselves, and never
to ﬁnd our sports in the pains
of animals or birds.”

It is a very nice prayer.
Sometimes when I am alone I
say it to myself.

He Deserved a Prize

ELOW is the picture of a little lad
under three years of age. It was sent

in to the San Diego Humane Society
which had put on a snapshot contest for
pets belonging to children under the age
of fourteen years. The. little lad’s name is
James Milton Parfet, whose parents live
on a ranch near Lakeside, California.
That he will grow up a loyal friend of ani-
mals no one, from this picture, can doubt.

 

JAMES MILTON PARFET, LAKESIDE, CALI-
FORNIA, A VERY YOUNG ANIMAL LOVER

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Compliments of

ESSEX COUNTY

CO-OPERATIVE

FARMING ASSOCIATION

Topsfield, Mass.

ROGERS FLOWER SHOP
w. w. ROGERS A. B. ROGERS

1229-31 (‘OMIVIONWEAIJTH AVE., ALLSTON
(001‘. Harvard) STAdium 3900

1-375 BEACON STREET, BROOKLINE
(Cor. Park) LONgwood 1800

 

E. M. PARKER CO.
X-Ray Films

25 Huntington Avenue Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 

COMPLIMENTS OF
JIM DID IT SIGN CO.

39 Brighton Avenue Brighton
Telephone, STAdium 2410

 

 

 

 

 

 

Danker & Donahue, Inc.

PACKARD SALES and SERVICE
10 Peabody Street

Garage at 462 BRO‘O'KLlINE AVE., BOSTON

ASPinwall 5225

 

 

 

 

 

PICKENS’ STABLE
134 Kenrick Street Brighton

CHARLEY DURRETT, Manager
Telephone, ALGonquin 9784

 

 

 

 

THE BROOKLINE
SAVINGS BANK

Deposits draw interest from the
10th day of each month

160 Washington Street
(Village Square)

BRANCH

275 Harvard Street
(Coolidge Corner)

Brookline, Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

LONDON HARNESS COMPANY

Leather Goods of Quality
English Riding Goods and Stable Supplies —— Dog Furnishings

60 FRANKLIN STREET

BOSTON

 

 

 

 

 

 

- o u Avg:u.‘.=.4 ~;___;._. A‘nura": Ann—in"

 

COMPLIMENTS OF

A FRIEND

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

COMPLIMENTS OF

BALBONI’S
NORWOOD and BOSTON
AUTO EXPRESS

Norwood, Mass.

Telephone, NORwood Ol 16

 

 

J. C. KEITH

Auction and Commission
Dealer in All Classes of Horses
Auction Every Wednesday at 10
A.M. at Brighton Stock Yards
Private Sales Daily

Largest Harness Emporium in New
England at

134 KENRICK STREET
BRIGHTON

Largest Stock of Harnesses, Saddles
and Blankets — Everything for the
Horse, Pony and Stable

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

MULLER RENDERING
COMPANY

will collect your

Dead Horses and Cows
at short notice
Telephones, KIRkland 0061, 126l
AUGUST SILVERY

HARRY LOFCHIE

Wholesale Distributor

NEWSPAPERS - MAGAZINES
PERIODICALS

60 Haverford St., Jamaica Plain
Telephone, ENDicott 6633

 

BRIGHAM’S MARKET

A FULL LINE OF FANCY MEATS, FISH,
GROCERIES, VEGETABLES, FRUITS
Fresh Eggs, Butter and Cheese 21 Specialty
641a HUNTINGTON AVENUE, BOSTON
Telephone, LONgwood 5092
Quick Service — Free Delivery

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

LONGWOOD

Tailors and Cleansers
Work Called For and Delivered
164a Longwood Avenue, Boston
LONgwood 5900

 

 

 

 

 

Lyndonville Creamery

Association
86 ELM STREET, WATERTOWN

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 11,6

The Lovely Antelope

HENRY H. GRAHAM

PROBABLY no animal in
the world is more admired
than the fleet-footed antelope.
Although timid, the creature
is full of curiosity and often
approaches nearer and nearer
to any suspicious—looking ob-
ject. This peculiarity accounted
for the undoing of many ante—
lopes during American covered
wagon days for hunters would
lie in wait, half hidden from
View, until a herd of the ani-
mals came within range. Since
then the antelope has been
drastically reduced in numbers.

Antelopes vary in size from
that of a rabbit to that of a
horse. Among the smallest and
most beautiful is the bush-
buck, also known as the har-
ness antelope. It has a white
stripe resembling a harness on
its body. In South Africa is
found the steinbok, which is
reddish in color and has short—
ringed horns that curve for-
ward. Africa is also the home
of the bluebuck or guevi, which

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Aug. 1941

 

an" .,, r , .. ;-, '

law».-

ANTELOPE ARE STILL COMMON IN AFRICA AND ASIA

 

 

is rarely more than a foot tall,
and of the kudu or koodoo, a very large
member of the species. Russia boasts the
salga, the features of which are tufts
of hair beneath its ears and eyes, a
white nose and a coat that looks like that
of a domestic sheep. There are many
other kinds of antelope.

In appearance antelopes resemble
deer though their habits are radically
different. Deer shed their horns annually
and grow new ones; antelope horns are
not only permanent but are possessed by
both male and female.

The antelope usually makes its home
in shady recesses of the forests but al-
ways in regions where water may be
readily found. Many species are so col-
ored that they match the surrounding
vegetation and thus are difﬁcult to
detect. The animals are still common in
Africa and Asia. Their speed of foot
usually enables them to escape from
bears, cougars and other furry preda-
tors, although the cougars sometimes
drop on them from tree limbs as they
follow game trails beneath.

During dry weather earthworms may
go down into the earth to a depth of
eight or more feet.

Migrating birds are guided by both
sight and instinct. It has been observed
that when they fly over land they follow
rivers, coast-lines, and other well-deﬁned
markers. In crossing large bodies of
water they must rely wholly on instinct.

His Gentle Side

AMELIA WOFFORD

l'JFHE stormy side of Walter Savage
Landor’s nature was well known to
his fellow men. Animals in general and
his pets in particular knew only the
gentle side.

At “aerial Fiesole,” where he lived for
fourteen years, for the only time in his
long life he indulged to the full his love
of pets. The notables of the many he
gathered about him were “Parigo,” the
great house-dog; a tame leveret; a tame
marten, upon whose death his master
composed an epitaph; “Cincirillo,” the
cat, whose fondness for birds as a food
exacted a constant watch on him by the
family and domestics.

Again in England, “Pomero,” a beau-
tiful Pomeranian, with a “wonderful
yaller tail” ——Mr. Landor is quoted—and
the brightest, most intelligent and affec-
tionate eyes, was his one pet and constant
companion. Within doors Pomero would
perch upon his master’s head to watch
the passers-by in the street or lie in his
basket until his master, talking with a
visitor, began to laugh. Then up he
would spring, leap upon him, and bark
excitedly.

One of Mr. Landor’s peculiarities was
to converse, openly or secretly, with any
animal he saw. As a mother to a child
he would talk to Pomero, in English or
Italian; and in giving his opinion upon
books, men, and governments, he would

pretend that Pomero was his authority.

Pomero’s life was long, but this did
not lessen his master’s grief when he
died.

“Gaillo,” another beautiful Pomera-
nian, the gift of W. W. Story, succeeded
Pomero. He, too, was his master’s con-
stant companion, and his authority for
criticisms upon the subjects under dis-
cussion. When speaking of himself and
Giallo, he would say, “Giallo and I.”

His affection for Pomero and Giallo
was impartial, though he distinguished
Giallo by ﬁguring him in many of his
verses. And he addressed to him the
prophetic lines written a few years be-
fore his own death:

"Giallo! I shall not see thee dead,

Nor raise a stone above thy head,

For I shall go, some years before,

Where thou wilt leap at me no more,

Nor bark, as now, to make me mind,

Asking me, am I deaf or blind.

No, Giallo, but I shall be soon,

And thou wilt scratch my turf and moan."

DogLove
Molly C. Rodman

I would not feel insulted
If someone said of me:
“He has a dog’s devotion—
A dog's fidelity!"

For dogs know much of loving,
And they will not pretend.

And that's the kind of love I wish
To give to you, my friend!

 

U... a

 

.1 M‘Mm-v

TA,” 4




 

 

 

 

Page 41;

To “Our Dumb Animals”

The ﬁrst issue appeared in March, 1868

Minnie Leona Upton

Seventy-three years OLD? Oh, no!
Seventy-three years YOUNG,

As on your joyous way you go,
Your helpfulness far-flung!

God speed, with courage ever stout,
Upon that tireless way,

Till the pure light you shed shines out
Unto the perfect day;

That glorious day when human wrongs,
With cruelty, shall cease,

And all the world shall raise glad songs
To the blest Prince of Peace!

The Snow Newspaper

BENNIE BENGTSON

LL day yesterday it stormed. The
snow swirled ﬁercely through the air
until midnight when it had blown itself
out and the wind died away. This morn—
ing dawned cloudless, but calm and cold.
I set forth early to read the morning
newspaper—a clean fresh white sheet
spread out on every side waiting to be
read. First I take a turn through the
woods where I ﬁnd the tracks of the
snowshoe rabbits everywhere, crossing
and recrossing one another. Here and
there among them I note another, smaller,
and without the snowshoe shape. It be—
longs to the cottontail, the little bunny
who does not change his color on the
approach of winter.

A little farther on I come to the neat
single row of footprints which I read and
know that a partridge has passed by. I
cross the bed of a small creek and come
to a place where a ﬂock of pine gros-
beaks have breakfasted on some high-
bush cranberries, the shredded crimson
skins of the berries scattered about on
the snow beneath the bushes. Here, too,
I see the footprints of a weasel, always
side by side, two and two. As I come out
of the woods and enter the ﬁeld beyond
I discover that beneath some dead weed-
stalks the snow is all one intricate net—
work of lacy, scrawly tracks. A ﬂock of
rerlmlls have been dining on weed seeds
Ema. A snort distance out on the ﬁeld I
come upon another double track, but this
a veiy thin one. It vanishes into a hole
in the snow blanket where the meadow
mouse has disappeared into one of her
many little snow tunnels.

I head for the farm buildings for the
cold is sharp and pass a strawstack on
my way. I note that here a ﬂock of prairie
chickens have been picking up the grain
spilled at threshing time. Home again I
feel that the morning edition of the snow
newspaper was an interesting one. It
gave me the very latest news about my
outdoor neighbors and friends.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Mar. 1941

Animals in the War
E.M.BUCHANAN

An English journalist recently arrived in Boston, having been sent to America in charge of
a group of evacuated children

keener than humans’, has had many
proofs during the present war in
England.
A donkey had been some little time in
a London shelter for animals, awaiting
removal to a place in the country. I was
walking along this street one day, when
the donkey began to “Hee—haw” loudly.
Someone seized my arm and dragged me
quickly down into an air-raid shelter.

“What’s the hurry?” I panted. “I
didn’t hear the ﬁnal warning.”

A bomb exploding horribly near pre-
vented an answer. When the noise sub—
sided somewhat my rescuer nodded wise-
ly, and explained, “That donkey is the
best aid-raid warning I’ve ever known.
Never fails to tell us when danger is
near.” And so it proved.

Then there is the old lady who sleeps
peacefully in her bedroom, in her Lon-
don home, yet is always down in her
shelter before the bombs come too near.
Congratulated on her bravery, she
laughed. “I’m not brave. It’s this clever
old parrot of mine.” She pointed to a
knowing-looking gray bird in a cage
near her. “That bird warns me in plenty
of time, so I can sleep in peace.”

Then there is “George.” A common
alley cat. When his family take to their
shelter under the stairs, they listen, and
if the patter of paws is heard, running
down the stairs, they say. “Here’s
George.” And faces are buried in blan—
kets, and hands held over ears, while
George takes his place under a chair.
Without fail, no sooner is George settled,
than a very near crash is always heard.
And though the “All clear” may not have
sounded, if George leaves the shelter,
the family know that they can safely
do so.

“Harry Tate,” is a ginger cat, be—
longing to a little girl. It was Harry who
came and woke his little mistress when
an incendiary bomb had set the house
on ﬁre. Aroused, they were able to throw
the sand, that is always ready in a pail,

7 ll 1HAT animals’ instinct of danger is

 

ALONE IN LONDON

over it. Probably lives and property were
saved by that animal’s instinct.

Dogs, too, have contributed their
share in saving life and property in this
war.

Mike is an old Irish roof—spotter.
He always has “Paddy,” his Irish ter-
rier, with him on this job, for that dog
always barks ahead of the explosion, giv-
ing Mike time to reach safety himself,
as well as ring the warning to the
people in the building he guards. “Duke”
is a Great Dane, who has won a row of
pots, medals, and blue ribbons, at peace-
time dog shows. One night as he and his
master were running to an air-raid shel—
ter, he suddenly caught hold of his mas-
ter’s trouser leg, and pulled him to the
ground, where he stood guard over his
prostrate body. A moment later a mass
of debris fell and buried the shelter and
spot where they would have been but for
that animal’s instinct.

Hens, too, showed they sense danger,
for a ﬂock of these birds ﬂew from
their roosts, just before their houses
were smashed to smithereens. The chick-
en farmer said the birds were safe, but
some of them were so frightened that
they laid an egg no bigger than a
twenty-ﬁve cent—piece.

Bravery, too, is a quality of animals
as well as of humans. A house was
bombed, but a mother bird sat bravely
protecting her young ones, in their nest
under the eaves, and remained there in
spite of all the noise and the fact that
practically all the wall fell around her.
An A. R. P. warden, patrolling a devas—
tated area, heard the loveliest trilling
bird song among the debris. He called a
rescue squad, who dug out seven people
and a canary in a cage whose song had
saved them.

Another warden, after an explosion,
saw a cat come out of the debris, carry-
ing a kitten which she laid at his feet,
and with a little “meow” she ran off and
brought out another. In this way she
saved her whole family of ﬁve. I can
assure you they had the safest and most
comfortable home that could be found.

A little girl was grieving in the shel-
ter because her pet mouse was left be-
hind. She had tried to save it, but its
cage was empty. What was her surprise
when her little cocker spaniel came to
her and laid the little damp mouse at her
feet. It was quite unhurt. The soft
trained mouth of her dog had carried it
safely.

Is it any wonder that England has so
many animal lovers? We know our dumb

friends are worthy of the best we can
give them.

 




 

 

I
l

 

 

 

 

 

Page 160

To a Mockingbird

Helma J. Feddersen

Liltingly tilting on branch gaily swaying,

Mocking while rocking in pink apple blooms,

Stealing unteelingly songs of your neigh-
bors,

Cheating yet treating with these borrowed
tunes.

Giving to living a new inspiration,
Blessing carressingly all who have heard,
Daintily gaining the world’s approbation,
Ever the clever, beloved mockingbird.

Will the Crow Survive?
Foxy Old Corvus Still Holds His Own

KENNETH D. MORRISON

HEN man has attempted to exter-

minate any wild creature, he has
succeeded in many cases. There’s one
exception, however—~it’s old Corvus, the
crow.

The passenger pigeon, heath hen, the
great auk, Carolina parakeet, and ESki-
mo curlew are now nothing but names
that bring to mind man’s success in
wiping out birds that, for one reason or
another, were deemed more valuable
dead than alive.

The crow was slated to follow these
species into oblivion. But What was
going to be a blitzkreig against him has
turned into a protracted war of nerves
that has some observers givmg the edge
to the winged defenders.

Since time out of mind, farmers have
erected scare-crows and done some spo—
radic shooting at crows, but it was decid-
edly guerrilla warfare, nothing organ-
ized about it. Until about 1933, most
hunters wouldn’t waste ammunition on
crows. Then it suddenly occurred to
various sportsmen’s organizations and
sporting magazines that the crow must
be mainly responsible for the phenom—
enal decrease of waterfowl. Biologists
said that over-shooting and drought
were the two prime factors but such
“sniping” did not deter the “big push”
against the crows. Every conceivable
method of warfare has been brought into
play. Poisoning, trapping, shooting, even
bombing has been tried. Twenty-six
thousand crows bit the dust during one
bombing in Oklahoma.

Sportsmen have been challenged to go
on “crow hunts,” which are competitive
affairs that usually divide the partici-
pants into two teams. The losing team——
the one that shoots the least crows—
must throw a banquet for the winners.
Thousands of crows have been killed in
this way, yet today, seven years after the
ﬁrst big offensive, there is no convincing
evidence that crows are decreasing.

The war against them is still being
waged on numerous fronts. The anti-

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

crowers are not in the least inhibited
about spreading propaganda. In the
pages of sporting magazines, mainly, a
vain attempt is being made to convince
the public that the crow is a delicacy.
Elaborate “crow banquets” have been
publicized. Spontaneous enthusiasm over
eating the birds is lagging, however.
The editor of a farm magazine observes
that the pot the crow is cooked in is
about as tasty as the bird itself.

The hunting fraternity has made sev-
eral efforts to enlist the farmers as
allies in the “battle of the crows.” Many
have joined. Some have balked, citing
the ﬁndings of government scientists,
which indicate that the crows are great
insect destroyers. During grasshopper
scourges, Dakota farmers have been so
grateful to the crows as to state that
they are “worth their weight in gold.”
Surveys of stomach contents have proved
that the crows also dispatch a large
number of farm pests such as caterpil-
lars, White grubs and their parents, the
May beetles.

Defenders of the crow are probably
referred to as “ﬁfth columnists” by the
leaders of the anti—crow drive. At any
rate, the war goes on. Countless rounds
of ammunition and tons of explosives are
hurled at the crows, which reply with
nothing but raucous “caws.” In fact, one
old Minnesota farmer, who ought to
know, tells me that the traditional “caW
. . . caW” of the crows is gradually chang-
ing to “haw . . . haw.”

 

 

IN .THE EDITOR’S LIBRARY

 

 

 

 

MOODS AND MEMORIES, Ruth Welles
Langford.

While there are few references to ani-
mals in this little book of verse it is a work
that appeals to us and we are glad to com-
mend it. “My Patient Friend” is a short
poem appreciative of “my dog”; “My Dream
is Gone” notes the ecstasy of the mocking-
bird’s singing, and “Joy” starts off with
the rapturous note of a bird’s song. But
there is real poetry in some of these selec-
tions and the reader will ﬁnd much of inter-
est and pleasure in following the moods and
memories that inspired the-m.

77 pp. $1.25. Christopher Publishing
House, Boston.

Aug. 1941

Liberal Annuity Rates

Both of our Societies offer you semi¢
annually during your lifetime a fixed income
on the sum. given. Depending upon your age
at the time of the gift, the rate varies from
4V2 % to 9% per annum, beginning at age 45.

ADVANTAGES

No coupons to clip, no papers to sign and
mail. You simply receive your checks at
stat-ed intervals—that’s all there is to it.

Annuity agreements are frequently used to
provide for the future years of a loved one
whose present income is temporary or in-
sufficient.

It is no experiment,
There is no anxiety,
No fluctuations in rate of income,
No waste of your estate by a will
contest.

* 96 it * 96

Persons of comparatively small means
may, by this arrangement, obtain a better
income for life than could be had with equal
safety by the usual methods of investment,
while avoiding the risks and waste of a will
contest and ultimately promoting the cause
of unfortunate animals.

The management of our invested funds is
a guarantee of the security of these Life
Annuities.

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A., or the
American Humane Education Society, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston, will be glad to
furnish further details.

 

 

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the first Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Office; 180 Longwood Av-
enue. Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS

One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of

the world.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the office en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN
THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.
Active Life $10000 Active Annual $10 00
Associate Life 5000 Associate Annual 5 00
Sustaining Life 20 00 Annual 1 00
Children’s $0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
A. POLLARD. Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 

of

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of
our Society is “The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals"; that it is the second incorporated (March, 1868)
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country, and
that It has no connection with any other similar Society.

Any . bequest especially intended for the benefit of the Angell
Memorial Animal Hospital, should, nevertheless, be made to the Massa-
chusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals “for the use
of the Angel] Memorial Animal Hospital,” as the Hospital is not incor-
porated but is the property of that Society and is conducted by it.

FORM OF BEQUEST

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals (or to The American Humane Education Society), the sum
.......... dollars, (or, if other property, describe the property).

 

 

M

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 228

To a Black Puppy

Anne Marshall Verner

You hardly lived here long enough

To grow beyond a ball of fluff,

Yet countless little things remain

To make me think you’re back again.

I hear your feet tip up the stair,

Your joyous bark, your yelp of fear.

I see your well-chewed tennis ball,

Your dusty paw-prints on my wall.

I watch you lie down prone to rest,

The small white cross shows on your breast;
I feel your curly, silken ears, =
Your flashing teeth, like small white spears.
I hear a rustle ’neath my chair

Ancl know that you are hiding there.
Perhaps your spirit, brave and free,
Comes back to earth to comfort me.

Vacation Victims
ETHEL CLOYD

HERE is another side to the orange-

blossom scented winter wonderland
of Phoenix, Arizona — a side that gives
the local dog-catcher an awful headache.
The streets and byways are full of dogs
and cats —— pets that have been brought
there by tourists. They stray away from
unfamiliar auto courts, especially, and
many times the owners are compelled to
return home without them.

The dog-catcher doesn’t dare destroy
these half—starved waifs for fear that
in a matter of days, sometimes weeks,
and in a few cases, even months, he will
receive a frenzied letter, giving the de—
scription of a certain pet which the owner
suspects was left behind when the fam-
ily car pulled out for points elsewhere!

Many residents take them in until
some kind mortal comes along who wants
such a pet. One Phoenix woman in par-
ticular has found new homes for count-
less numbers. The majority of these va-
cation victims show good breeding; and
undoubtedly their loss constitutes a trag—
edy to the former owner as well as the
Victim.

But there comes a time when the per-
manent population of the winter wonder-
land of Phoenix can no longer care for
all the strays. Vacationists themselves
must be brought to realize their obliga-
tion to their cherished pets.

Those of, us who realize dogs and cats
love life even as you and I, and are
heart—broken on being separated from
their adored masters, wish devoutly that
the winter Visitors would exert more
effort in the safe transport of their
pets!

Animals that hibernate live through
this period on body fats. Respiration,
heart action, and circulation are slowed
to a minimum. There are fewer physical
needs and little body fuel is required.

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Speaking of Dogs

APTAIN WILL JUDY, editor of the

Dog World Magazine, being asked to
write “a few words for the Kiwanians
on man’s best friend,” said, “I hurried
to accept,” and from the paper that he
wrote and which was published in the
Kiwanis Magazine in September of this
year, we quote a few of his paragraphs:

“The public spends for canned dog
food, and for dry or biscuit dog food,
approximately $60,000,000 a year. An-
other $35,000,000 each year is repre-
sented by purchases of remedies, sup-
plies, veterinary services, holding of dog
shows, and the like. There are approxi-

mately 12,000,000 dogs in the United

States, or about one for every eleventh
person, or one for about every fourth
family. We do not necessarily want more
dogs but we do want better dog—owners.

“Animals don’t carry gossip or bear
false witness; they don’t rob banks;
they don’t sneak through trafﬁc signals;
they don’t get drunk; they don’t amass
great wealth for their own selﬁsh uses;
and when they have eaten enough, they
quitleating and lie down and sleep in
the sunshine, an example all of us hu-
mans well might follow.

“The dog is the only animal that talks
at both ends. He uses his voice and his
tail. There is nothing in this world
more eXpressive than a dog’s tail except
perhaps a woman’s smile.

“There is only one animal out of the
160,000 species of animal life which of
its own accord—without whip, without

._/

WHERE HAS MY MASTER GONE?

 

Dec. 1941

harness, without compulsion—comes to
the side of man to serve him and to be
his glad companion—and that is the dog.
The dog need only be near his master
to be happy. He may be wet with rain,
shivering with cold or lean with hunger,
and yet if he is with his master it
matters not.

“Dogs possess that rarest of all hu-
man virtues—forgiveness. Though you
may punish your dog unjustly (and nine
times out of ten when you punish your
dog you do so unjustly because he was
not able to determine clearly what you
wanted him to do) your dog crawls back
to you on his stomach, nudges his soft,
moist nose into your hand and says, as
he looks up at you with his big brown
eyes, ‘Oh, let’s forgive and forget.’ ”

The Graceful Waxwings

A. LEONARD BUTTS

CEDAR waxwings are not frequent
visitors in the gardens or yards, so
acquaintance with those immaculate
birds had seemed quite remote to me
until one Sunday in early spring. a

Small dark berries still clung in
bunches on our privet hedge. Casually
gazing at the mass of green foliage, I
discovered that it was being invaded by
scores of birds, which were unlike any
I had seen in the vicinity before. A bet-
ter inspection with ﬁeld glasses disclosed
them to be cedar waxwings.

Feasting on the berries, the cedar-
birds, as they are also named, were cling-
ing to almost every branch. Properly

called gluttons, these creatures
will eat until they are thor-
oughly stuffed.

One would naturally expect
such an intemperate bird to be

clumsy in appearance, but not
so. Waxwings are classed among
our most beautiful birds. With
grayish - brown predominating,
this bird with a graceful crested
'head has a softly tinted yellow
breast. Wing-feathers with
small narrow red tips, resemb-
ling sealing-wax are responsible
for the name of “wax-wing.”

The next morning after my
ﬁrst acquaintance with the
cedar-birds, I was favored with
another exhibition. Some were
still feasting, but most of them
were perched in long rows on
limbs of near-by trees. Almost
motionless, they stood quite
close to one another as though
waiting for a leader to command
them to ﬂy away. Very soon
afterwards, I discovered that
they had departed, as they ap-
parently were just lingering
*awhile for a bite to eat.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 208

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Feeding Our Winter Guests
BENNETT B. SMITH

URING the cold months when snow

is piled high and the mercury drops
almost to the bottom of the thermome-
ter, inhabitants of the woods and ﬁelds
often suffer from the lack of food. It is
then they should be fed.

It is a pleasure to feed the birds and
one is well repaid for his efforts in
observing their habits at close range,
their plumage, their songs, their actions.

We had three feeding stations, one an
old branching tree—trunk and two home
constructed, covered shelves. We spent
many happy moments watching the
birds at these stations. Seeds and
cracked nuts were put on the shelves
and suet was crammed into holes and
crevices of the old stump.

One of our visitors was the white-
breasted nuthatch. There are many
climbers but this little fellow is master
of them all with his ability to run about
over the trees. He is recognized by his
ﬂat body, broad shoulders, and greenish-
blue coat. He also wears a black cap
and a white vest.

It is interesting to note the curiosity
of this bird. He will run down the tree
trunk and look upon one with great in-
terest as though anxious to make a new
acquaintance or perhaps to see if a
choice morsel is forthcoming.

Another bird that came to feed was
the Chickadee who gets his name from
the call of his soft, pleasant voice. This
little fellow seems really to enjoy a
snowstorm. He ﬁnds food regardless of
conditions. If no one has put food out,
he can yet ﬁnd, somewhere, even if the
ground is covered with snow, an old
weed which has a few remaining seeds
and, with a vigorous shake, he spreads
the meal over the snowy white table-
cloth, a ﬁt repast for any bird.

The Chickadee usually travels with six
or eight others of his kind and is often
in the company of nuthatches, downy
woodpeckers, and brown creepers.

This bird is very useful for hunting
out small insects and eggs in trees that
escape the notice of larger birds. In
winter he is of greatest use for then
there are no ﬂying insects and he looks
for those hidden away in the trunks of
trees. An orchard with several chicka-
dees in it during the winter will almost
surely produce good, blemish-free fruit.

Among those present was the cardi-
nal—a bird that remains with us during
the winter. Occasionally he came to one
of the feeding-boxes and picked around
among the nut-hulls to ﬁnd a few kernels.

The striking plumage and varied song
of this bird make him outstanding.
Although he prefers seclusion and the
lower shrubbery, he does come to gar-
dens near the house. .

THE CHICKADEE IS ONE OF OUR
MOST WELCOME WINTER GUESTS

One of our interesting visitors was

the downy woodpecker. He was a con-
stant boarder with us and frequented
the old tree stump with its bits of suet.

The woodpecker is very fond of the
codling moth’s grub, the great enemy of
the apple tree. He heads the list of best
workers, summer and winter.

It is interesting to see a woodpecker
come to a tree and tap a few times here
and there and then listen, turning his
head from side to side, apparently to
hear the better. It is mysterious, too,
how he knows where to bore. Then he
falls to work and it is not long until he
has drilled a hole into the post or tree
and the long, ﬁsh-hook tongue goes in to
bring out the nice, fat grub.

A few others came, too, to our feeding
station, including the blue jay, that
saucy fellow who has so many moods and
temperaments.

And what pleasure we had watching
all of these birds. You, too, will ﬁnd
much interest in these feathered friends,
if only you take the time to feed and
watch them.

A single female house—ﬂy usually lays
600 to 1,000 eggs in her lifetime.

Warm-blooded creatures cease grow-
ing when they reach a more or less deﬁ-
nite size, whereas cold-blooded animals
continue to grow as long as they live,
their rate of growth varying with the
abundance of food and age.

 

N 0?). 191,1

For the Defense

L U T H E R C L A R K

HE unobtrusive, slate-colored dwell-

ers of the ﬁelds and pastures—the
mourning doves—have made their way
south again, gathering in ﬂocks of va-
ried sizes to brave another winter. The
ﬂocks are smaller than in former years;
much too small in some parts of the
country. Part of the decrease in num-
bers can be attributed to the severe
Southern winter of 1939-40, but freezing
weather has not been alone as a de-
stroyer.

No bird is more deserving of friend-
ship; none is more completely free of
“farm enemy” guilt. Yet an old be-
lief, long since proved false by students
of bird life, persists to bring persecution
upon the doves.

This belief—that the birds consume
great quantities of wheat and corn—has
been the sole evidence in numberless con-
victions of the innocent. Doves do eat
wheat and corn, but never to a crop-
damaging extent. Only a small amount
of wheat is eaten, and corn preferred by
the birds is nearly always old, being
picked up from the ﬁelds following har-
vest.

The question has been asked, “If doves
are not farm enemies, why do they pre-
fer to gather in the ﬁelds?” The answer
rests upon two established facts; ﬁrst,
the birds ﬁnd gravel there, which they
consume regularly, and second, they ﬁnd
weed seeds at the edges of ﬁelds.

These seeds make up the doves’ prin—
cipal stock of food, and they are eaten
the year around. In fact, conservation
ofﬁcials have discovered that 64 per cent
of their annual food supply is composed
of weed seeds.

The practice of gathering in ﬁelds and
pastures, where covering is scarce, has
cost the doves dearly. Despite the Gov-
ernment’s protection of migratory birds,
unscrupulous persons continue to bait
these open spaces, luring large num-
bers of the innocent within easy range
of shotguns.

Yet, the situation is not completely
dark. Efforts to make all citizens con-
servation-conscious are being speeded,
and the facts about wild life are reach-
ing an increasing number of people. It
will be a happy day when this knowledge
brushes the purely imagined guilt away
from the mourning doves.

The normal range of quail is less than
a half mile in a day and the maximum
yearly migration is only one and one—
half miles.

With the exception of owls and some
hawks, the eyes of all birds are monocu-
lar. They see different objects with each
eye, and do not focus both eyes on a
single object as humans do.

 

 




Mar. 1941

       

  

I.

v4
. {44/1/1114411114 ALI,“ ’uf .

D

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

  
 
  

I

“"“l'fm m

  
 

r. 7 1.

E .

:é {—2 '4“ : .\\ {ll 52:9,. ’

E. , 3: w«\\\'\\\‘\\)?‘{i¥¥, M -,

1‘- "i = J" {”4 ’1 \‘V

g:— : g ",7“ f :- Qg . r: ,

ET: :5 g yfv/irwy ~ ._ ~ \. ~ . ’

,3 a, \ / 5 l" ‘x L! i ”‘1,

.A $5 ll ) {/{Rg§ . .7"; "._...'{~ ‘ I“""’A’~A::®l" )
' ' i ‘ 7" «Mm ‘
) A .. -_$..\\$‘.\‘~\ , . \ ,9

Pioneer Spirit
MARY AGNES COLVILLE

I envy them their valor
In braving frigid days——

The nnthatch, sparrow, chickadee
Of philosophic ways.

N 0 ﬁne, warm meal awaits them,
N o cozy hearthside glow——

They each must seek chance eating
Amid the ice and snow.

Long weeks of wintry weather—
Wild ‘blizzar'ds on the side—
These gritty little feathered folk

Just take them in their stride.

   
    
 
 
 

 

“Katje” Has University Degree

MAY G.HORNER

ATJ E” can

neither read,
write no r speak
English, yet she is
the proud posses—
sor of a university
degree. Katj e
(short for Kath—
erine)» is. a black
and t a n German
police dog trained
at the f a m o u s
Seeing-Eye, I n c.,
at Morristown,
N. J. '

When her mas-
ter, Robert Bar-
nett, received his
Bachelor of Arts
1 a s t Commence-
ment at John B.
Stetson Univer-
sity, D e Land,
Florida, it was
Katje who led him
across the stage to
Dr. W. S. Allen,
president of th e
institution. After
the y o u n g man
ha d received his
diploma, Dr. Allen
turned to Katj e
and awarded her
the d e g r e e of

 

“KATJE” AND HER MASTER THE
DAY THEY RECEIVED THEIR DE-
GREES AT STETSON UNIVERSITY

      
 

...i|i|\|\|a;]jiti‘

      

   

§
\.
/

\\~

"<\\'~‘\‘\\<<\\wRises

  
      
          

@m
n \.

“1:4: '0
\fS
\\ \. ‘

\
‘\\‘.‘ \N

 
 

ﬁfwe “I”; I":
_ 7 A1739“. “mu/w:
Canine Fidelity—the ﬁrst time in college history a dog
had received such recognition.

The audience of town folks, parents and friends of
graduates shook the auditorium with their applause for
Katie. The dog was as popular as her master whom she
had guided so faithfully through the university and the
town during his college life.

Katje not only went to classes, chapel, lectures, recit-
als, plays, but also attended church, went to the movies
and any other place of interest her master wished to go.

Like any other dog, Katj e would like to chase a cat or
a squirrel now and then, or stop to investigate the other
dogs on the street. But long before she received her uni—
versity degree, she had learned discipline. Her duty was
to guide her master and see that no harm befell him. To
do that, she must leave such pleasures to other less well
trained animals.

Every one who knows Katje agrees that she richly
deserves her degree of Canine Fidelity.

Freddy Helps the Birds
FRED CORNELIUS

OR a long time Freddy watched the ﬁnches ﬂying

into the cedar with straws and grass clippings in
their beaks. He knew they were building a nest, and it
was fun to watch them. On every trip the father bird
went along with the mother. Sometimes he brought back
a straw, but more often he would sit on a branch several
yards away and sing while the mother worked at the
nest. This, Freddy had been told, was to attract any
enemies away from the nest-site. The mother ﬁnch
seemed to be having a hard time ﬁnding enough building
material. Freddy could help her here, he thought. So he
went into the house and found several pieces of string.
They were of all sizes and colors. Freddy sat down and
cut the string into short lengths so the little mother
would not become entangled in them. Then he went out
and scattered them all over the yard in bushes and on the
lawn and sat down to watch.

Soon the mother bird found them, and how happy she
seemed! Trip after trip she made to the nest with the
strings. Freddy was quite as happy as the bird. “Sure
saved her a lot of work,” he smiled, as he sat and
watched her.

Prize Poster Exhibit at Library

Arrangements have been made with the Boston Public
Library, Copley Square, for the display of prize-winning
posters made by pupils in the public and parochial schools
of the state in the contest of the Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. As many of the
posters as can be accommodated there will be on exhibi—
tion in various cases throughout the building and in the
public lecture hall for several weeks, beginning on
Humane Sunday, April 20.

 




 

Mar. 191;]

Hunger Time
Lalia Mitchell Thornton

Tell me pheasant, what do you find
Beaten about by the sharp North wind,
All I see is a bunch of weeds?

And the pheasant answered, I find seeds.

Tell me beaver, what do you eat,

Sheltered there in your lodge so neat,

With a wall of ice about your ark?

And the beaver answered, I store up bark.

Tell me Bruin, safe in your den,

How will you live till spring again
Calls you out, can you tell me that?
And Bruin answered, l have my fat.

And hearing these I forgot the cold

And the falling snow, and the winds so bold,
For winter is good in any clime

Unless it is also Hunger Time.

Trained Dogs in London

IREDALE dogs which can ﬁnd

wounded people in bombed build-
ings, carry messages under gunﬁre, and
act as sentries and patrols, are being
trained by Colonel E. H. Richardson and
his wife at Grasslands, near Woking,
Surrey.

They are already sending 15 trained
dogs a month to aircraft factories and
civil defense workers, and they hope that
if the authorities approve the work
people will lend suitable dogs for train-
ing.

“You can only train a dog with the
right qualities,” Mrs. Richardson told
the Sunday Express.

Colonel Richardson always knows after
a short “interview” whether the dog is
likely to be a good pupil.

“The most expert dog is the mes-
senger. He has to have a high intelli-
gence because he works by himself.

“A dog who has to ﬁnd wounded people
needs a highly developed sense of smell,
and for a patrol and sentry dog you
choose an animal with ﬁne hearing and
alert temperament. -

“Dogs are taught to ﬁnd wounded
people by a reward system. The ﬁrst
time the ‘wounded’ person lies down in
the bushes a few yards away holding a
small piece of meat.

“The dog runs in and ﬁnds the person
and gets the reward. In this way it learns
what is expected of it, and a dog will al-
ways try to please its master once it
understands What is wanted.”

Several batches of 12 trained dogs
have recently been ordered to guard air—
craft factories.

; A few exceptional dogs can be used as
Spotters, but they have to have inherited
talent, and cannot be trained for the
work.

——L0udou Sunday Express

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Judy Garland’s Gift

 

JUDY GARLAND AND “SERGEI”

JUDY GARLAND revels in the company of
her dog, “Sergei.” Sergei is a St. Bernard
with an appetite that matches his size. He eats
four and a half pounds of raw meat daily, drinks
nearly two quarts of milk, holds forth in a
special house with his name over the entrance.
Sergei was a gift to the young M. G. M. singing
star from her mother, and one of the nicest gifts
L. P. B.

she ever had, according to her.

Page 47’

able to ﬁnd any edible morsels
there to relieve the urgent pangs
of hunger.

The shivering, undernour-
ished-looking man stooped down
to pat the forlorn canine com-
fortingly, his seamed face break-
ing into a sympathetic smile.
The kindly words he spoke to the
animal were drowned in a fresh
onslaught of wildly shrieking
wind.

Then the man put his hand
into the ragged pocket of his
short threadbare coat and
brought out a newspaper—wrap-
ped package. From its folds he
produced a solitary sandwich
(his breakfast doubtless or per-
haps luncheon, too).

While the equally undernour-
ished-looking canine w a t c h e d
with fascinated gaze, the man
proceeded to separate the meat
from the bread, giving every bit
of the meat to the hungry dog.

Then he himself rested against
an icy tree—trunk and ate the
unpalatable bread.

His gratuitous meal ﬁnished,
the mongrel went to the man
and licked his hand by way of a
“thank you.” Then he trotted off
over the ice—encrusted ground
and was lost to sight.

The man went back to his drab
task of trying to unearth pos-
sible ﬁnds of any value from the
containers. A little later, he, too,
disappeared from sight in the
eddying snow.

The observer of the little
scene, watching it from the win-
dow of a cozy room, could not
soon forget the self-sacriﬁcing
interest of one who gladly
shared his much needed little
with another hapless fellow
creature.

 

Benefactor
A True Incident

MARY AGNES COLVILLE

HE thermometer registered zero out
of doors. Shrill winds rudely buffeted
everything in their path.

Plodding through the heavy drifts of
early morning snow, came a pale, tired
looking middle-aged man clad in thin,
inadequate clothing. He was pushing a
small hand-cart into which he placed
objects unearthed from the trash baskets
lining the curb to await the arrival of
city dump trucks.

As the shivering man neared one group
of refuse cans, a pitiably thin mongrel
dog minus collar or tag, turned from one
of the cans with a moaning whine of dis-
appointment. Evidently he had been un-

Bound Volume for 1940

The new bound volume of Our Dumb
Animals, including the twelve numbers
of 1940, bound in cloth and stamped in
gold, is for sale at one dollar, postpaid,
to any part of the world. It contains
192 pages and 150 illustrations of ani—
mals and birds. Order your copy today
from Our Dumb Animals, Boston, Mass.

Cocker Spaniel
N a n

What sorrow in your doggish Post
Is mirrored in your eyes—-

Can it be from a world too vast
For canine compromise?

Or, do you bear an inner scar
From moments when you learned

How tallible all humans are,
How easily discerned?

Emanuel

 

 

 




 

Mar. 19.41

OUR DUlllB ANIMALS

Page [,5

Be Kind to Animals Week, April 21--26
Humane Sunday, April 20, 1941

Cash Prizes for Photographs

AST season, in connection with Be

Kind to Animals Week, Our Dumb
Animals offered a series of cash prizes
and subscriptions to the magazine for
the best original photographs of wild
life. This year a similar contest is being
held, only the prizes are for photographs
of domestic animals or domestic birds.
The cash prizes total $65, and there will
be ten subscriptions in addition. The
contest is open to everybody, every-
where. All photographs must be original
and never before published in any peri—
odical or book or in postcard form. The
conditions, which are imperative, are:

1. Twenty-three prizes in all are of—
fered, as follows:

First, $25, cash; second, $15, cash;
third, $5, cash.

Fourth to thirteenth, $2, cash, each.

Fourteenth to twenty-third, one year’s
subscription to Our Dumb Animals (val—
ue, $1, each.)

2. The subjects must be either live
domestic animals or live domestic birds.
Pictures of wild animals in captivity
such as squirrels, skunks, etc., or of
caged birds, are not eligible. (No circus
or hunting pictures or those showing
cruelty, considered).

3. The contest is open to all, but en-
tries will be accepted only from those
who have taken the photographs.

4. Only strictly original, hitherto un—
published photographs may be entered.

5. There is no limit as to size, but
we suggest approximately 3 x 4 to 4 X 6
inches, and no limit to the number that
may be sent by one person.

6. Send no negatives, only good, clear
prints, preferably glossy ﬁnish. Size of
the ﬁgures is always considered.

7. All photographs must be marked
plainly on the back with the full name
and address of the sender. (Notes of ex-
planation are deﬁnitely not wanted,
other than enough for suitable captions).

8. The closing date is June 30, 1941.
No offerings will be entered later.

9. Photographs winning prizes be-
come the exclusive property of Our
Dumb Animals; those not winning a
prize will be returned only if full post-
age is provided.

10. All photographs intended for the
contest must be addressed, Contest Edi-
tor, Our Dumb Animals, 180 Longwood
Avenue, Boston, Mass. If the words
“Contest Editor” do not appear on the
address, any photographs received for
Our Dumb Animals will be considered
in the usual way and, if accepted, will
be paid for only at the regular rates.

AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

 

180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

The New Poster for 1941

GAIN the well—known Morgan Den—
nis has designed the annual Be Kind
to Animals poster, as shown above. It is
printed in two colors, same size as in
former years, 17 x 22 inches. It is con-
sidered “a masterpiece of appeal” by one
of America’s best-known animal artists.
These posters are increasingly popu—
lar, as they are among the best possible
means of advertising Be Kind to Ani—
mals Week. Every school-room in the
country should have this poster hanging
Where every pupil could see it. Copies
should be placed in stores, ofﬁces, wait-
ing-rooms and wherever people congre—
gate.

Although the cost of production of
such high-grade posters is constantly
rising, the prices remain the same as
for the last several years. Orders for
100, or less, may be sent at once to the
American Humane Education Society,
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass,

at these prices, postpaid:

Single copy, 10 cts., three copies, 25
cts., eight copies, 50 cts., twenty copies,
$1, seventy copies, $3, 100 copies, $4.

Orders for large quantities, or for
copies bearing the imprint of local So-
cieties, should be sent at once to the
American Humane Association, 135
Washington Ave., Albany, N. Y.

New School Exercises

“Humane Exercises for the Use of
Teachers,” a new compilation with a
foreword especially written by State
Commissioner Walter F. Downey, 8 pp.,
will be available for HUMANE DAY IN
SCHOOLS, Friday, April 25 (or nearest
convenient date). All Massachusetts
teachers will be supplied as usual. Sam-
ples mailed free to any address. For
those outside of Massachusetts wishing
a quantity, the price is $1.50 per 100
copies. Address, Secretary, Mass. S. P.
C. A., 180 Longwood Ave., Boston.

 

 

 




 

 

 

July, 1941

But Ossie is the prime favorite, for
the ocelot provides a superb example of
the results that may be achieved through
kindness and sympathetic understanding.
Ossie appears thoroughly convinced that
human beings are his friends, for Adrian
believes (as do all animal lovers) that it
devolves upon man to assume the initi—
ative in demonstrating friendship.

The young ocelot is a handsome ani—
mal, and when full grown he will meas-
ure about four feet from the tip of his
nose to the tip of his tail. His light,
grayish-fawn coat is richly marked with
broken bands of deeper fawn edged with
black. On the head, neck, and inside of
the limbs, the bands are broken up into
black spots and dashes, so that he some-
what resembles a small jaguar. The
range of the species is quite extensive,
for ocelots are found from tropical South
America to southern Texas, but so per-
sistently have they been hunted for the
sake of their beautiful skins that they
are now quite rare in the United States.

As a ﬁtting commentary on the hu—
mane attitude towards wild animals I
like to recall a remark of Adrian Hines
to the writer, when he said:

“Many people appear astonished when
they see how readily wild animals re-
spond to offers of human friendship. I
have never shared their amazement. I
would think it strange, on the contrary,
if they did not respond.”

Tourists and admirers of the former
nature student, Gene Stratton Porter,
Visit her home in Geneva, Indiana, on
highway 27, only 38 miles south of Fort
Wayne in the limberlost region of the
upper Wabash and Limberlost streams.
Limberlost Cabin is situated on the
south shore of Sylvan Lake near Rome
City, 32 miles northwest of Fort Wayne.

ON A SHEEP STATION IN AUSTRALIA—ONE OF THE LEADING SHEEP-RAISING

OUR ADUMB ANIMALS

Page 135

Peculiar Sheep

EWEN K.

HE domestic sheep is undoubtedly

one of the most useful of the vari-

ous animals that man has succeeded
in bringing under his dominion. The art
of taming animals and adapting them to
man’s needs was practised long before
any written records were kept, and, con-
sequently, the identity of the great bene-
factor of the human race who ﬁrst con-
ceived the idea of subjugating the sheep
is unknown. We do know that the tend-
ing of ﬂocks was one of the earliest in-
dustries of our rude forefathers.

It is believed that sheep were ﬁrst
domesticated in Asia many centuries
ago, and although there is some mystery
surrounding the origin of our domestic
animals, authorities agree that they are
descendants of several peculiar species
of wild sheep still to be seen in parts of
Asia and Europe. These wild animals
possess characteristics such as are now
to be found in the domestic breeds.

The rarest of these queer progenitors
of our domestic sheep is the mouflon.
This sheep was once plentiful throughout
Europe and Asia, but nowadays it is
found only on the highest hills of the
islands of Corsica and Sardinia, in the
Mediterranean Sea. It is about the same
size as an average tame sheep, but is
more antelope-like in form, with a short
deer-like tail and large horns, and is cov-
ered with short, close—lying hair.

In Asia there are four kinds of wild
sheep that are regarded as ancestors of
our domestic sheep; these are the argali,
the urial, the fat-tailed sheep, and the
black-headed or fat—rumped sheep.

The argali is the largest and most
majestic of all wild sheep; it lives in

 

COUNTRIES IN THE WORLD

PATTERSON

Central Asia and is often close on four
feet in height at the withers, while it
is by no means unusual to see a ram with
horns ﬁve or more feet in length, meas-
ured along the curves. The argali is of
a light grayish—brown color and is closely
related to the urial, which is found
throughout the whole of Asia.

The urial is about the same size as an
average domestic sheep, and its most out—
standing feature is the manner in which
it changes color. The under-surface of
its body, legs and tail are always white,
but the color of the upper portion of the
body, including the head, varies with the
seasons. In spring it is. of a rufous gray
color; in summer, fawn; and in winter,
light grayish—brown.

More remarkable, however, are the.
fat—tailed sheep of Asia Minor, Syria and
parts of Arabia, and the black—headed or
fat-rumped sheep of Persia and parts of
Central Asia. The fat-tailed sheep is
characterized by a long broad tail on
which fat accumulates to such an extent
that it may weigh as much as seventy
pounds, and is sometimes supported on
a little wheeled sled to relieve the owner
of its weight. In the fat-rumped sheep
the tail is greatly reduced, and the fat
accumulates in two great protuberances
on each side of the haunches. It is be-
lieved that in both of these breeds the
storing of fat is to form a reserve of
nourishment during periods of drought.
The fact that some breeds of our domes-
tic sheep have a tendency to accumulate
fat on the rump is regarded by authori—
ties as proof that the wild fat-rumped
sheep of Asia must have had a share in
the ancestry of our domestic animals.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




Oct. 1941

Early Inﬂuences

L. E. EUBANKS

WHEN I was about eight years old
I saw an amateur butcher kill a
pig with an ax. That was ﬁfty years ago,
and that scene, with the callous indif-
ference and brutal conversations that
accompanied it, yet lives in memory as
vividly as the events of yesterday.

I was visiting a boy friend in the coun-
try, but that was my last visit to any
place where killings are performed; for
when my father heard my version of the
gruesome doing and observed the effects
on my nervous system, he forbade me
ever to witness such a thing again.

The next autumn my rural friend vis-
ited me, and when I referred to the
butchering he laughed at my feelings—a
laugh I didn’t like. My wise old dad
then terminated that friendship, predict-
ing that the boy would come to a bad
end unless his environment were
changed. Dad was not far wrong, at
that; for as a husband and parent in
later years that same boy ruled his home
with relentless cruelty.

No young person over whom I have
control is going to be exposed to heart-
hardening inﬂuences. From much obser-
vation I’m convinced that, with most
boys and girls, the environment and
training of the ﬁrst twelve years de-
termine whether or not the adult will be
considerate of other persons and hu-
mane toward the lower animals.

Some years ago I knew a man who
cursed his ten-year-old son because the
boy cried at the sight of a rabbit in
distress. The father’s hobby was hunt-
ing and he began taking the lad with him
when the boy was little more than a
baby.

But despite all his efforts the child
continued to be sympathetic, ﬁnally be-
coming hysterical when he saw his
father’s hound catch and roughly mouth
a rabbit. So disgusted was that father
that he thereafter called the boy Sissy
and turned his training over to “the
woman.”

Not long ago a boy of seventeen was
arrested in a stolen automobile. Inquiry
disclosed that he had tied the car’s owner
to a tree deep in the woods and left food
where the man could see it but couldn’t
reach, it. Wanton cruelty. Yes, the boy
himself didn’t have any too much to eat;
but torturing the man was a satisfaction
to him.

I was not surprised to learn that the
culprit had spent the ﬁrst ﬁfteen years
of his life in a home where a brutal
father had killed every pet brought into
the home—including a canary, than
which, surely, nothing could be more
harmless. A signiﬁcant statement in the
boy’s life-story was, “He (the father)
beat me, then I went out and beat some

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

smaller kid.”

I won’t say that boy is hopeless, but
undeniably some one is going to have a
tough job to undo those early inﬂu-
ences. A child is never too young to be
started right; in fact the younger he is,
after he begins to think for himself,
the more impressionable he is.

Humane Calendar Soon Ready

The new Humane Calendar, issued by
the American Humane Education Soci-
ety, Boston, is expected to be out early in
November. It consists of a card 12 x 15
inches, with a colored illustration 7 x
10% inches, showing George Washing-
ton, Patrick Henry and Edmund Pendle—
ton, mounted on splendid horses, riding
away from Mount Vernon to attend the
ﬁrst Continental Congress at Philadel-
phia. At the door of the Washington
home, shown plainly in the background,
Lady Martha may be dimly seen as she
watches the departing horsemen. It is a
scene of great historical importance, and
is one of the best pictures that the well-
known Osborne Company has ever had.

Prices are 20 cents each; two for 35
cents; three for 50 cents; 12 for $1.75;
when sent to the same address. If
ordered to be sent separately, regardless
of the number, the price will be 20 cents
each. Orders for special imprint of So—
cieties can be ﬁlled only if sent at once.
Write for terms. Send orders to Secre-
tary, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston.

 

, own

THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A. OFFERS A
REWARD OF $20 FOR EVIDENCE WHICH WILL
CONVICT FOR ABANDONING A CAT

Page 193

Abandoning Pets

HENRY H. GRAHAM

VERY year thousands of cats and

dogs are abandoned and left to their
own resources by their thoughtless and.
inconsiderate owners. It is not an un-
common Sight to see canines and felines.
wandering in the woods and along wil—
derness roads many miles from even a.
farmhouse. Many of such creatures are
there through desertion. Vacationists
motoring through sparsely-settled coun—
try eagerly drop cats and dogs by the
wayside because they have tired of them
or have found them a nuisance.

Such a practice cannot be condemned.
in too strong language. Not only is it
heartless and cruel in itself as well as
unwarranted, but the practice works a.
hardship on birds and smaller animals
on which the discarded pets must feed
if they are to survive. Hunger is a po-
tent force and domestic animals revert to
the wild quickly when thrown “on their
.” This is only natural and no one
can legitimately blame dogs and cats for
so doing. When well fed and kindly
treated they seldom kill birds. It is
chieﬂy when they must do so or starve.

Upon several occasions my heart has
bled for abandoned animals. Several
times I have taken them home, fed them
and kept them until admiring friends
adopted them. This, I think, is what
every animal lover Should do in the in-
terest of the pets them—
selves and the creatures on
which they will be forced to
prey if not cared for.

Anyone who thinks enough
of animals to possess them
Should think enough of them.
to care for them well as long
as they live—long after they
have passed puppyhood or
kittenhood. If some attention
and training are given to
cats and dogs in their earlier
years they will be much
more interesting and de—
voted in adulthood. Animals
are appreciative, responding
with much affection when
they know they are loved
and really wanted. But nO'
circumstances ever warrant
the abondonment of dogs and
cats. It is a vicious practice.

Annual meeting of the
New Eng. Federation of Hu-
mane Societies, Thurs., Nov.
6, at Angell Animal Hospital,
Boston. Addresses include,
“Battery Chicks,” Eric H.
Hansen; “Pulling Contests
at Fairs,” Alfred W. Lom—
bard; “Distemper in Dogs,”
E. F. Schroeder; “Problems
in Surgery,” C. L. Blakely.

 




 

 

u mbAn

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,

Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,

Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
—COWPER

G LO n v 'r o
GOD,
PEACE on EARTH,

AND MERCY 'r'o
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

 

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

Entered as second-class matter, June 29,1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass” under the Act of March 3,1879
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 13,1919

Boston Ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

Vol. 74

We say nothing about this unspeak-
able war whose black shadow makes
even the very sun seem red with blood.
Heaven only knows the real facts and
what the future holds for us and the
rest of the world.

These are days when men, facing bar—
baric facts, the utter disregard of every
law of right and justice, must cling to
their faith that God still lives, though
clouds and darkness are round about
Him.

Though overwhelmed with the work
that must be done at home, the Royal
S. P. C. A. is now raising funds for the
help of the unfortunate animals suffer-
ing from war in Greece and even in
Egypt.

Leading humane journals of England,
such as The Animal World, The Ani-
mals’ Defender and The Animals’ Friend,
still come to us month by month in spite
of the war.

On page 51, a brief statistical report
of the complaints investigated, prosecu-
tions, animals inspected, miles traveled,
etc., by ofﬁcers of the Massachusetts S.
P. C. A. last year, we trust will be read.

Arrangements have been made, mak-
ing it possible for the humane societies
of the United States to send any funds
obtainable to England for the humane
organizations there to help them in car-
ing for the unfortunate animals, par—
ticularly the family pets of the victims
of this horrible war.

The American Humane Association is
in charge of this movement. Any gifts
for this purpose, forwarded to us by any
of our friends or readers, we shall be
glad to acknowledge and send to the
Association.

March, 1941

A Great Charity

will surprise the vast majority of
our readers to know that that organ-
ization founded by Quakers, known as
the American Friends Service Commit-
tee, according to their statement pub-
lished in December, 1940, is daily feed-
ing 30,000 Europeans without any objec-
tion or opposition from the governments
where this work is being done.
The report reads as follows:

At the moment American Quaker
workers in unoccupied France are feed-
ing more than thirty thousand children
daily. These include ten thousand new-
born infants that are given milk. About
twenty thousand school children receive
milk and rice at schools to supplement
their meager diet at home. Orphaned
and abandoned children of various na—
tionalities, many of whom are in concen-
tration camps, are wholly cared for by
the Committee’s representatives. De-
spite the British Government’s forebod-
ing that the furnishing of foods to Eu-
rope might be a military advantage to
the Germans, the American Friends Ser-
vice Committee cannot express too
strongly the complete independence with
which it works in France and the abso-
lute control which it has over its supplies
from the moment of arrival to the point
of consumption. The bulk of the food-
stuffs used by the American Quakers is
purchased in Switzerland. Some foods
are purchased locally for free distribu—
tion to the destitute. These purchases
are costing about $70,000 a month.

Coming of genuine Quaker stock on
his mother’s side, the President of our
Societies is glad to publish this much of
the report of the royally beneﬁcent
American Friends Service Committee
that for years has been answering the
cry of human need.

No- 3

We Are Not Forgotten

URING the year ending December

31, 1940, the appeals for money
turned loose from the doors of innumer-
able post ofﬁces have poured in like a
ﬂood through the doors of home and
ofﬁce. The Red Cross—of course we
must give to that; the Community Fund
—surely we must do our part toward
that great human endeavor. But almost
every day some new group forms a so-
ciety and seeks to raise money for the
suffering across the sea.

Then there are all the old and well-
established organizations to which we
have been accustomed to contribute—
for the blind, the deaf, the crippled, the
schools in the South that need our help,
and the church must not be forgotten
and the missions here and there, and the
Salvation Army and the Volunteers and
the Veterans, and—but even here you
cannot stop. They keep coming—brand
new ones—almost every day and hour.

But, how about the humane societies?
How have they fared through this un-
ceasing tide of appeals? Many have
said, “With all the woe and want that
men and women and children are facing
today, what right have we to give our
money for beasts of the ﬁeld and birds
of the air?” Well, We are deeply grate-
ful that we can say, so far as our own
two organizations are concerned, our
members and our friends have not for—
gotten us. In spite of fear and anxiety
over what the ﬁnancial future may be,
we are still continuing, unabated, our
work and constantly moving ahead to
meet increasing needs.

After all, man knows mighty little,
and may some day learn enough of his
own ignorance to fall down and pray.

HENRY ADAMS

 

 

 




 

 

 

Page ’72

   
 
   
 

  

GOD,
PEACE ON EARTH,
KINDNESS, JUSTICE
AND MERCY TO
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

7
g
m
3‘;

   
  
   
  

Founded by Geo. T. Angell

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Incorporated 1889

Officers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President and Ch. Fi-
nance Com., United Shoe Machinery Corporation

CHARLES E. SPENCER, JR., President, First National
Bank of Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

E. J. H. Escobar .................. Colombia.
Luis Pareja Cornejo ............... Ecuador
Charles A. Williams ............... France
Leonard T. Hawksley .............. Italy

S. C. Batra ....................... India
Mrs. Mary P. E. N itobe ........... J apan
Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ...... Madeira
Dr. A. T. Ishkanian .............. Mexico
Mrs. Alice W. Manning ........... Turkey

Humane Press Bureau

Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Field Workers of the Society

Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Illinois
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, South Carolina
Rev. R. E. Grifﬁth, De Land, Florida

Field Representative
Dr. Wm. F. H. Wentzel, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF FIELD
WORKERS FOR JANUARY AND
FEBRUARY, 1941

Number of Bands of Mercy formed, 933
Number of addresses made, 365
Number of persons in audiences, 70,265

Gifts for Retired Workers

E are receiving gifts to the Ameri-

can Humane Education Society as a
trust fund, the interest to be used for the
beneﬁt of ﬁeld missionaries and others who
have spent their lives in promoting humane
education. Already several cases have come
to our attention and are being relieved in
this way. We will welcome your contribu-
tion to this fund.

Please make checks payable to Albert A.
Pollard, Treasurer, American Humane Edu-
cation Society, 180 Longwood Avenue, Bos-
ton, and specify that the amount con-

tributed is for the Humane Education
Trust Fund.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Again from Syria

ROM our representative, Mr. N. B.

Matta, in that distant land, so asso-
ciated with Biblical history, comes the
following information:

He says, writing under date of Decem-
ber 1, 1940, “Fourteen Bands of Mercy
were organized in Lebanon this month
and three in Syria. These Bands consist
of 580 members. Most of the teachers
are reporting every now and then on
their pupils’ deeds along this line.”

“Mr. T. Jammal, our ﬁeld lecturer,” he
writes, “is always wandering among
towns and rural communities to organ—
ize Bands and'deliver lectures and talks
to groups and individuals about this
cause. He visited some twenty—nine vil—
lages, and spoke about thirty-six times
on ‘Be Kind to Animals Even in These
Days’ and ‘How to Care for our Inferior
Friends.’ Attendance was not less than
1,050 people.

“In November, police arrested three
men for overloading their donkeys with
heavy burdens, and the three were ﬁned
ﬁfteen Syrian pounds each and given two
weeks’ imprisonment. Another man cut
the tail of his neighbor’s donkey because
it entered his farm and destroyed some
of his wheat. This man was sentenced
to two months’ imprisonment.

“This month twenty donkeys, sixteen
dogs, ﬁve cats, ﬁve hens and two mules
were cared for. Animals humanely put
to sleep: four horses, two donkeys and
two dogs. Animals lost and restored to
their owners: seven donkeys, four cows
and three dogs.”

Mr. Matta is at the head of this work
and doing it in connection with his stud-
ies for the ministry.

April, 191,1

The Folly of Fools

Was it ever so evident as today that
war is the supreme folly of mankind?
Men, supposed to be competent to lead a
nation, to speak for it, to determine its
policies, involve it in quarrels and, un-
willing to give and take, unwilling to
share in natural resources, ambitious for
power and dominion, resort to war.

What is gained by it? For its young
men, death; for its people, taxes that
mean billions earned through years of
toil and sweat and sacriﬁce, paid by the
toilers. Gain? Loss. Loss for every
home from palace to but and hovel. Loss
for every man and child. Loss for years.
Less food, less of life’s comforts. For
millions, less work, none of life’s lux-
uries. Fewer of life’s necessities.

War! The folly of fools.

One of Our Representatives

Honored

For most distinctive contributions to
better living in America during 1940,
the editor and publisher of Health News
has selected ten men and women for the
ﬁrst such honor roll. Among them is
Mrs. Alice Park, Palo Alto, California,
humanitarian, representative of the
American Humane Education Society,
“for saving lives by persuading parents
not to keep guns where children can get
at them; and educational work against
cruelty to animals.”

He drew a circle that shut me out,
Heretic, rebel, a thing to flout,

But love and I had the wit to win,
We drew a circle that took him in.

EDWIN MARKHAM

The F ondouk -- Fez

 

The last monthly report has not been received yet from Fez.

A letter mailed many weeks ago indicates that the work at present is going
on as usual. The accompanying photograph shows one of the places near Fez
where, twice a week, the inspectors of the Fondouk look over the camels and
donkeys that assemble there.

 




 

 

Page 56

in Georgia, and held humane exhibits at
several fairs and teachers’ institutes. He
organized 450 Bands of Mercy in schools,
spoke at many religious and educational
meetings, and distributed 25,000 pieces
of literature.

Many Places in Texas Reached

Mr. Barnwell, another of our colored
representatives, covered a large portion
of Texas in visiting about 50 cities and
towns, requiring more than 11,000 miles
of travel. He talked in more than 100
schools before upwards of 51,000 pupils
and reported 380 Bands of Mercy. He
gave an even larger number of addresses
before adult audiences, in colleges,
churches, Parent-Teacher congresses, Y.
M. C. A. meetings, and various confer-
ences, at which the total attendance was
12,500. He distributed 12,000 pieces of
literature and secured 37 press notices.
He assisted in the adjustment of the pro—
gram for humane education in the Fort
Worth schools, and was responsible for
several prominent radio talks and other
features of the Be Kind to Animals Week
celebration.

Close Co—operation with Parent-
Teachers

Dr. Wentzel, working principally in
western Pennsylvania, visited thirty-two
cities and towns, where he gave 62 talks
in 52 schools and organized 375 Bands
of Mercy. He gave a number of addresses
to adult groups, including Father and
Son banquets, Parent-Teacher meetings,
Rotary and Kiwanis Clubs, teachers’ in-
stitutes, Commencements, Vacation Bible
schools, and various conventions. He also
gave several radio talks. Altogether hr
reached nearly 50,000 persons and dis-
tributed 175.000 pieces of humane litera-
ture. He reports the year as being the
most favorable of all the twelve years he
has served as state chairman of Humane
Education for the Parent-Teacher Asso-
ciation, and has noted particularly the
continued interest of local and county
units. While attending the national con—
vention in Omaha, in October, he put on
a speaking program in several of the
schools with very encouraging results.

Hundreds of Bands in Chicago
and Texas

Mrs. Toomim represented the Society
in Chicago during the ﬁrst seven months
of the year, and in Texas, with head-
quarters in Slaton, during October, No-
vember and December. In these periods
she organized 2,626 Bands of Mercy with
approximately 90,000 members. She de—
livered more than 400 addresses in
schools and distributed upwards of 41,-
000 pieces of literature. In co-operation
with the Illinois Humane Society she
arranged for the Be Kind to Animals
Week celebration in Chicago, where 4,000

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

copies of “Humane Exercises” were
placed in the schools, 71 cameras were
awarded in an essay contest, radio talks
were given by prominent leaders, and
much press publicity was obtained. The
Governor of the state and the superin-
tendent of the Chicago public schools
endorsed the Week, while the Chicago
Church Federation and many, ministers
took note of Humane Sunday.

Western Press Bureau

From Palo Alto, California, Mrs. Park
conducts the Western Press Bureau,
sending out carefully prepared copy to
about 550 newspapers each month. She
ﬁnds that Be Kind to Animals Week is
being more generally observed, with in—
creased publicity, and that there is a
steady growth in new buildings for anim
mal shelters. She had many interviews
with school ofﬁcials, editors, librarians
and other leaders; made numerous
speeches at conventions; and distributed
large quantities of humane literature.

Many Foreign Contributions

Contributions to humane work abroad
included cash gifts to humane organiza—
tions in London and Shanghai, and to
individual workers in Manila, Ireland,
Hungary, Syria and India; and gifts of
literature to Canada, Newfoundland, Co—
lombia, the Philippines, England, Virgin
Islands, Spain, Australia, Syria and
Africa.

Michael O’Connor travels through ru-
ral sections of Ireland, visiting fairs and
other places where horses are used ex-
tensively. He distributes literature and
constantly seeks better protection of all
animals. S. C. Batra formed the “Band
of Mercy Council” in India and reports
that he has secured 5,000 to take the
pledge of kindness. E. J. H. Escobar, of
Cali, Colombia, holds conferences on hu-
mane education, in connection with much
practical work for animals. He succeeded
in having the use of horses in bull-ﬁghts
discontinued in his territory. Dr. A. T.
Ishkanian, in Mexico City, holds weekly
humane conferences and carries on a
humane program in the government
schools, and, by use of an illustrated
chart on his bicycle, on the streets. Mrs.
Alice W. Manning reports 1939 as the
most active year in the history of the
Turkish S. P. C. A. so that it is now
recognized as a real public utility. Laws
have been added to the penal code to pro-
tect animals. Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton
tells us that the Society in Madeira is
being generally appreciated and that
visitors to the island comment on the
good condition of the animals. The So-
ciety’s hospital has a veterinarian in
daily attendance. N. B. Matta, president
of the Oriental Humane Education Asso-
ciation, gives lectures, distributes litera-
ture and forms Bands of Mercy in Syria,
Lebanon, Palestine and Transjordan. A

M ar. 19.41

student of theology, he is constantly
preaching the gospel of kindness to ani-
mals and doing much practical work in
their behalf.

Great Increase in Bands of Mercy

The total number of new Bands of
Mercy reported in 1940 was 8,764. Large
numbers of these were in Illinois, Rhode
Island, Massachusetts, Maine, Florida,
the Carolinas, Georgia and Virginia,
while the rest were in a dozen other
states, the District of’ Columbia, the
Philippines and India. The total number
of Bands of Mercy reported to the So-
ciety since the movement started, in
1882, is 255,709. In these, it is estimated,
more than seven and a half million per-
sons, mostly children, have been enrolled.

Jack London Club Notes Great Progress

The Jack London Club, started in 1918
by the President of our Society, was the
ﬁrst serious organized protest against
the cruelty to animals 3 on stage and
screen. Nearly 38,000 new members were
added during the year, bringing the total
membership up to almost 800,000. How
much this movement has had to do with
the growing sentiment to stop all cruel-
ties to animals in connection with mov-
ing pictures may never be known, but it
is satisfying to realize that the Ameri-
can Humane Association now has an
efﬁcient representative living right in
Hollywood and that great progress has
been made in securing reforms directly
through the movie producers’ organiza-
tions. A new day "is dawning for the ani—
mals used in making pictures.

Silent Films Still Popular

Our silent ﬁlms, one of which was pro-
duced quite a number of years ago, are
still in considerable demand, calls having
been received for them from New Eng-
land, New York, Pennsylvania, Michigan,
Illinois, Nebraska, Virginia and North
Carolina. There were 17 rentals of “The
Bell of Atri” and three sales, including
one for foreign missions; and 31 rentals
of “In Behalf of Animals” and one sale.

Literature New and Old

In addition to the monthly issues of
Our Dumb Animals the Society printed
a quarter of a million pieces of litera-
ture during 1940. This included a new
compilation of “Humane Exercises for
Use of Teachers,” of which 20,000 copies
were published; a new playlet, “The Best
Gift,” (3,000); leaﬂet by Dr. Rowley,
“Humane Education and Spiritual Val-
ues,” (10,000); “Plan of Work for Par—
ents and Teachers,” by Mrs. Weathers-
bee, (5,000) ; 6,200 new press slips, 6,000
new blotters, and 1,200 new calendars.
About 130,000 copies of the Society’s
regular humane leaﬂets were reprinted,
as were 16,000 cards and 15,000 other
items.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 161;

undreds of Photographs Received in

\\¢
\

“ON GUARD,” WINNER OF FIRST PRIZE, $25, CASH
H. H. Sheldon, Bend, Oregon

Y far the most successful of all

the photographic contests ever held

by Our Dumb Animals was that of
1941, which closed on June 30. Due to
unusual publicity, for which we are in-
debted to some of the leading photo-
graphic magazines of the country, no less
than 872 different photographs were
entered in the contest. They came from
more than 200 contestants, representing
nearly every state of the Union and sev—
eral provinces of Canada. Naturally, it
took time to judge so many pictures, of
which at least 100 were outstanding.
Because of the unusual quantity and
quality of the photographs received, Our
Dumb Animals added ten cash prizes, of
$3 each, to the number of prizes that
had been announced so that the total
value of all the cash prizes is $95, and,
in addition, there are ten full year’s sub-
scriptions to Our Dumb Animals, mak-
ing thirty-three prizes in all.

Here are the prize winners:—

1. $25, cash. “On Guard” (dog), H.
H. Sheldon, Bend, Oregon.

2. $15, cash. “S y m m e t r y” (cat’s

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

head), Elbert W. Millar, Westﬁeld, New

Jersey.

3. $5, cash. Three kittens in basket,
Robert Neiswinter, Minersville, Pennsyl-
vania.

4 to 13, $3, cash, each:—

“Observation” (two dogs), A. Raety,
Petersburg, Virginia.

Golden cocker and rabbits, N. C.
Ehlke, Rhinelander, Wisconsin.

“Pals” (dog and horse), Mrs. Jos.
Watson, Yalesville, Connecticut.

“Our Beloved Ginger” (dog’s head),
R. B. Gamble, Jamaica, New York.

“Babe” (horse’s head), Ruth Welch,
Edgartown, Massachusetts.

Sheep, D. Reynolds, Barrie, Ontario.

“Be Kind to Us” (dog), Maclay Lyon,
Kansas City, Missouri.

“The Gossips” (horses at fence), Mrs.
Eugene Landess, Fayetteville, Tennessee.

Kid, Dr. Donald M. Snow, Springﬁeld,
Massachusetts.

Boy and dog, C. Y. S. Egone, Brook-
line, Massachusetts.

Sept. 1941

rize Contest

 

“SYMMETRY,” WINNER OF SECOND PRIZE, $15, CASH
Elbert W. Millar, Westﬁeld, New Jersey

14 to 23, $2, cash, each:—

“We’re Feeling Fit and Fat” (span of
work-horses), James R. Parker, Hart—
ford, Connecticut.

Two dogs, Wm. A. Stark, Mt. Leba-
non, Pennsylvania.

“Julie” (dog), H. Francis Jackson,
Everett, Washington.

Girl and cat, Erling Ylvisaker, Madi-
son, Wisconsin.

“Vanity” (turkey), R. F. Wilson, Har-
bert, Michigan.

“Nanny” (goat), George Kubica, Jr..
Little Falls, New York.

Dog, George F. Jackson, Evansville,
Indiana.

Two dogs, C. R. Vaughn, Visalia, Cali-
fornia.

“Tippy” (dog), Lewis A. Babb, Ports—
mouth, New Hampshire.

Span of work-horses, David J. Gold-
stein, Utica, New York.

24 to 33, one year’s subscription to
“Our Dumb Animals,” (value, $1) :—

Three swans, Harry R. Pierce, South—
ern Pines, North Carolina.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Page 1.40

Prayer for Insects

Helen H. Beems

O, God, Who made the insects
We deem such useless things

That flit about in sunshine

On fragile, gaudy wings,

That swarm around the meadow
When days are warm and bright,
That take no thought of winter,
That take no thought of night,

Who, when the summer's over,

Can neither live nor die,

When rains come chill and sun is hid
Cold and shelterless lie;

0, pity a crippled cricket,

A wasp with ruined wings,

A butterfly’s broken fluttering,

O, God of little things.

 

 

Pure Cedar Bedding

FOR THE COMFORT
OF YOUR DOGS

Keeps your kennels sweet and clean.
Used for many years by leading ken—
nels, dog fanciers, hospitals and vet-
erinarians. Makes the coat glossy.
Keeps ﬂeas away.

Ask your dealer or write us direct.

Packed in convenient sized bales.
$1.00 and up, F.O.B. factory. Also
cushions ﬁlled with our CEDAR
BEDDING in sizes to meet your re-
quirements.

Tell us what you want.
We will try to please you.

F ramingham Cedar Bedding Co.
SOUTH HANSON, MASS.

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Right Films Promote

Humane Education

THE BELL OF ATRI
illustrating Longfellow’s poem,
and
IN BEHALF OF ANIMALS

showing the practical work of the
Massachusetts 8'. P. C. A. and the
Angell Animal Hospital. For terms

Address
Secretary, 180 Longwood Ave.
Boston

 

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Being Kind to Animals

Editorial in News, Framingham, Mass.

ITH bombs falling on Britain, and

everyone working for the Red
Cross or giving to war relief, too little
attention may be paid to the annual Be
Kind to Animals Week, being observed
this week. The thoughtless may say
scornfully, “Why worry about animals
when human suffering is so great?” But
a forlorn person has a hundred friends
where an animal has none; and surely
thoughtfulness for God’s humbler crea—
tures will make us more kindly and
thoughtful toward one another.

Even in beleaguered Britain, the Royal
S. P. C. A. is making every effort to care
for animals injured in air raids—and at
the beginning of the war, one read of
hundreds of English people who had
their pets humanely put to sleep so that
they need not suffer whatever horror the
war might bring; while others refused
to evacuate their homes until they were
certain their dogs and cats, that had
shared these homes for years, were cared
for.

Just the other day we read that men
of the returning Byrd expedition, rather
than abandon the dogs that had been
their companions in adventure for the
past year and a half, put them humanely
away, so that they would not starve in
the Antarctic wastes when their loaded
planes would not permit of their bring-
ing them home.

Again and again we hear of faithful
service, in war and peace, performed by
dogs and horses. Who has not laughed
at the graceful antics of a kitten, or
been thrilled at a bird song on a Spring
morning?

Animals ask nothing but food and
shelter; they do not declare war, ﬁght
only when they must in defense of them—
selves or their young; kill only for food;
and most of them make exemplary par-
ents. Their well-known capacity for love
and loyalty sometimes exceeds that of
their masters, and many are the lessons
one may learn from these wistful crea-
tures so dependent on human kindness.

Most of our cruelty to animals is
doubtless performed unconsciously, due
to ignorance or thoughtlessness.

July, 1941

Liberal Annuity Rates

Both of our Societies offer you semi-
annually during your lifetime a fixed income
on the sum. given. Depending upon your age
at the time of the gift, the rate varies from
4V2 % to 9% per annum, beginning at age 45.

ADVANTAGES

No coupons to clip, no papers to sign and
mail. You simply receive your checks at
stated intervals—that's all there is to it.

Annuity agreements are frequently used to
provide for the future years of a loved one
whose present income is temporary or in-
sufficient.

It is no experiment,
There is no anxiety,
No fluctuations in rate of income,
No waste of your estate by a will
contest.

>l< it 96 * 96

Persons of comparatively small means
may, by this arrangement, obtain a better
income for life than could be had with equal
safety by the usual methods of investment,
while avoiding the risks and waste of a will
contest and ultimately promoting the cause

of unfortunate animals.

The management of our invested funds is
a guarantee of the security of these Life
Annuities.

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A., or the
American Humane Education Society, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston, will be glad to
furnish further details.

 

 

Dumb Animals

Our

Published on the first Tuesday of each month by

the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood.
Massachusetts. Boston Office; 180 Longwood Av—
enue. Address all communications to Boston.
TERMS

One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of
the world.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct to the office en—
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN

THE ATMERIC‘AN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

$100 00
50 00
20 00
Children’s

Active Annual $10 00
Associate Annual 5 00
Annual 1 00

$0.75

Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
A. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston.

Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston.

Active Life
Associate Life
Sustaining Life

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

 

In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of
our Society is “The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals"; that it is the second incorporated (March, 1868)
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country, and
that it has no connection with any other similar Society.

Any bequest especially intended for the benefit of the Angel]
Memorial Animal Hospital, should, nevertheless, be made to the Massa-
chusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals ”for the use
of the Angel] Memorial Animal Hospital,” as the Hospital is not incor-
porated but is the property of that Society and is conducted by it.

FORM OF BEQUEST

I give to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals (or to The American Humane Education Society), the sum
of .......... dollars, (or, if other property, describe the property).

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

June, 1941

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 105

Big Poster Contest Marks Humane Week

Thousands of School Children Compete for Prizes Offered by the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.

JUST A FEW OF THE THOUSANDS OF POSTERS RECEIV

ORE than 50,000 school children
M in Massachusetts co-operated with
the Massachusetts S. P. C. A. in
making the 1941 celebration of Be Kind
to Animals Week a distinct success. For
that number of pupils in public and
parochial schools of the state made post-
ers with kindness to animals as the
theme. They were in 545 schools, repre—
senting 176 different cities and towns.
Only ﬁve posters could be entered from
any one room, so the total number re—
ceived at the ofﬁce of the Society was
8,391, with one exception the largest
number ever received during the twenty
years that the contest has been running.
Of the entirely new medals designed

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

for the purpose, 1,228 with blue ribbons,
denoting ﬁrst prizes, were awarded; and
1,342 with red ribbons, indicating second
honors. In addition 1,571 honorary men—
tions were given, each carrying a full
year’s subscription to Our Dumb Ani-
mals. A few hundred of the best posters
were exhibited in the lecture hall and in
glass cases on the main ﬂoors of the Bos-
ton Public Library, in Copley Square,
during Be Kind to Animals Week and
the week following.

Radio programs, including interviews
or addresses on various phases of hu—
mane work, were given during the Week
from Boston stations as follows: Hu-
mane Sunday, April 20, Station WBZ,

 

ED IN THE 1941

 

" c

 

 

SR ‘5 3“?
31,351 a:

'lEACH QUE.

» 5 . f .
PET SAF TY.

my; ran: up 5 ‘ a

 

 

CONTEST OF THE MASS. S. P. C. A.

Dr. Francis H. Rowley and Mr. Thornton
W. Burgess; April 21, Station WORL,
Dr. Rudolph H. Schneider; April 23,
Station WHDH, Dr. C. L. Blakely; April
26, Station WEEI, Dr. Francis H. Row-
ley and Dr. E. F. Schroeder; and Station
WCOP, Guy Richardson.

On the afternoon of Humane Sunday
Mr. Thornton W. Burgess, introduced as
America’s best-loved story teller, de-
lighted a large audience in the lecture
hall of the Boston Public Library, Cop-
ley Square, with his talk on “Making
Friends with Animals and Birds,” and
exhibition of moving pictures, many of
which were in color. In the evening of
Humane Sunday special services were

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SOLVENIZED GASOLINE IMPROVES‘MOTORCOMPRESSIONAND so INCREASES MILEAGE
SOLVENOlL--THE EXTREME PRESSURE MoTOR OIL, REDUCES FRICTION AND WEAR

 

 

 

 

 

COMPLIMENTS OF

NEW ENGLAND RENDERING CO.

BRIGHTON

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SURGEONS AND PHYSICIANS SUPPLY co.

Sick Room Supplies, Hospital Beds, Wheel Chairs, Sun Lamps
761 BOYLSTON STREET BOSTON

 

 

 

 

EASTMAN HEAT

CONTROL CORP.
45 MILK STREET

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

COMmonwealth 2430 BOSTON
BBOOKLINE TRUST COMPANY
Brookline
E. B. DANE, President
Telephone, BEGelow 0403
BURT M. RICH “Eustis”
Funeral Director Friend

NEWTON
GEORGE W. BUSH CO.

26 CENTRE AVENUE

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TIIE A. T. HOWARD CO.

GORDON SUPPLY CO. 9 KNAPP STREET

60 ABERDEEN AVENUE

CAMBRIDGE

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE TEXAS COMPANY

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Better Buy Buick

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

COMPLINENTS OF

W. J. FALLON

BOSTON Statler Building
Printers of Office Boston
Forms
TOUREEN

BOARDING KENNELS

600 SOLDIERS FIELD ROAD
Brighton

Specialists in Boarding, Clipping
and Conditioning
Individual large runs
Hot water heating system

STAdium 8197

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Member Florists Telegraph Delivery Association

VILLAGE FLOWER SHOP

Established 1923
ARTISTIC FLOWER ARRANGEIVIENTS

103 Washington Street, Brookline, Mass.
BEAcon 6000-6001
Francis G. Carreiro

BAY STATE HARDWARE

COMPANY

1395 Washington Street, Boston
Telephone, KENmore 8460

 

 

 

 

Frederick C . Carreiro

 

 

 

 

 

MEMBER F. T. D.
Tels. ASPinwall 5604 - 5605

T H E
BROOKLINE FLOWER SHOP

710 WASHINGTON STREET
(Washington Square)
L. S. Levensohn Brookline, Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 186

The Kind, Conservative
Elephant

QNE day at Paradise (Lake Paradise,
British East Africa) my Meru car-
penter came running to the door of my
laboratory very much excited and shout-
ing in Swahili: “Elephants! Elephants !”,
writes Martin Johnson in “Safari, a
Saga of the African Blue.”

This wasn’t exactly news, for the
woods about us were full of the big
animals. But I grabbed my big Akeley
camera and tripod and followed the man
to the back of the shack, hoping as
usual to get something out of the ordi-
nary. There in the open scrub about
two hundred yards away were ﬁfteen
elephants, several bulls, four or ﬁve
cows, three half-grown animals and two
babies. They were all just feeding along
as comfortably as could be.

, Of course, I started to grind out ﬁlm.
When I had turned down about two hun-
dred feet what was my surprise to see
Osa duck up between me and the ele—
phants . . . There she was, weeding her
strawberries in the garden not a hundred
yards from the herd of wild elephants
and blissfully ignorant of its presence.
Our calling back and forth, and the move-
ments of the boys about the camp, ﬁnally
caused the beasts to move on down to-
ward the lake . . .

Certainly the elephant is no fool. He
attends to his own business and lets
other creatures severely alone. He leads
a quiet family life. And he does not prey
on the land or lives of other species . . .
I like elephants and I admire them. And.
I believe the normal pachyderm elephant
is a kind, conservative animal that knows
his place in life and is wholly content to
keep it.

“THE ELEPHANT IS NO FOOL”

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

The American Ship of the
Desert
DOROTHY L.PILLSBURY

LD TIMERS” who live on lonely

ranches in Arizona and New Mexico
still talk about the camels imported from
the Old World—those humped and un-
couth animals that came shambling over
the range lands just as if they belonged
there.

It is true that there were loose and
roaming camels on the Great American
Desert up to fairly recent times. The
story is most interesting. It all hap—
pened because of that arid waste of land
which stretched nearly two thousand
miles between the end of steel in the
Middle West and the rich gold country of
California on the Paciﬁc Coast.

That was long before the days of the
coast to coast railroads. Anyway you
looked at it, the Great American Desert
was a barrier. They tried to bridge those
miles of desert with the Butterﬁeld
Stage Coaches and with the Pony Ex-
press. That was pretty fair in those
times for transporting passengers and
mail. But what about freight?

What more natural if you have a des-
ert on your hands, than to think of the
Old Ship of the Desert, the camel? The
person who thought of the camel was
no less a person than Jefferson Davis, at
that time a member of the United States
Congress.

He ﬁnally got an appropriation of
thirty thousand dollars and sent Major
Henry C. Wayne to Cairo, Egypt, in 1855
to buy camels. Thirty-three camels with
their native drivers were actually un-
loaded in a Gulf of Mexico seaport. All
but three of the consignment survived
the long sea voyage. One year later
forty-one more were brought over.

At ﬁrst the camels seemed to work out
very well as beasts of burden in the
Great American Desert. They could
carry loads of a thousand pounds. They
could travel up to thirty miles a day.
They were docile, patient and trust-
worthy. And best of all they could live
on the sparse desert vegetation and ir-
regular watering-s.

In spite of all this, never were ani-
mals so hated. Everything on the desert
hated those camels—man and beast. No
one understood them. There weren’t
enough native camel drivers to go
around and no Americans would take the
job. Imagine a pack train of mules and
burros plodding across the desert, meet-
ing head-on with a string of camels! Or
imagine cow-boys rounding up cattle
when across the waste-lands comes the
strong smell of camel on the desert
wind! It wasn’t any time at all until
the camels were voted a nuisance and a
menace to wild-west civilization.

The camels lasted a little while as

Oct. 1941

freight carriers between United States
forts in El Paso and Arizona. Some even
got as far as Fort Tejon in California.
They made regular trips to Los Angeles
for supplies.

At last, all the camels were turned
loose on the Arizona Desert. There they
throve and multiplied. They strayed into
New Mexico and over the border into
Old Mexico. As late as 1900, ranch men
in lonely pockets of the hills were still
seeing camels. They shambled elegantly
through barnyards and sauntered pictur~
esquely over purple mesa—lands, to the-
utter demoralization of horses, mules,
burros, and cattle.

Sea Lion Seeks Adoption
J.CASEY

REQUENTLY we read and even see

instances of where wild animals,
birds, etc., attempt again and again to
escape and return to their native haunts,
but for a denizen of the deep to insist
upon being captured—well, that’s a new
kind of story!

Only recently, according to several
eye—witnesses, such an incident really
happened. Captain Anthony Davi of
Santa Cruz, California, while pursuing
his regular duties as a ﬁsherman, en-
countered a young sea lion, which
jumped into his boat. Being of a kind
disposition, Davi gave the visitor a ﬁsh
and then tossed it overboard.

The pup circled the boat a couple of
times and then jumped in again. Once
more Davi gave it a ﬁsh and then threw
it back into the water. But a few min-
utes later, when the persistent visitor
again leaped into the boat, it was per-
mitted to remain and was taken into port.
Here it was placed in a tank of water
and kept for several days, then released.

Aimlessly and disconsolately the sea
lion roamed up and down the water front
for some time. Then, as if suddenly
reaching an important decision, in a
most resolute manner it headed out to
sea—in the direction of the ﬁshing ships.

Upon arriving in the vicinity of the
ﬂeet of ﬁshing vessels, the little fellow
made a careful inspection of various
crafts only to continue its search. Final-
ly its efforts were rewarded; it found
Capt. Davi’s boat, and not losing any
time, immediately jumped into the boat.

Not having the heart to throw the
“babe of the sea” overboard, Capt. Davi
let it remain. Perfectly happy and con-
tented, the pup ate ﬁsh while the ship
put out to sea.

The captive sea lion has long dis-
played remarkable aptitude in learning
tricks and has become a general favor-
ite, but for one untrained and unaccus-
tomed to the ways of man, it seemed
strange, indeed, how this one decided to
become a voluntary captive.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Page 84

To a Dead Butterﬂy

James Warnack

Fair flying blossom of the fragrant fields,

If your discarded form, so brilliant yet,

Wakens the admiration of my soul,

How fair you must have been when sun
and dew,

Rainbow and mist and flowers all combined

To burnish your bright wings with living
light!

Do you still live in some sweet morning land

Where every winged thing renews its youth?

Do you feed on the honied blooms of
heaven?

And have you been supplied with brighter
wings?

To sail the purple air of paradise?

Or do you wander lonely through the skies,

Above the earth your presence v’beautified,

Gazing with longing on the scenes below,

Yearning for beauty and the south Wind's
kiss?

Ah, it may be that even now you rest

Within some silvered, silken Chrysalis,

Patiently waiting for your glad new birth

Into the old world that you love so well!

South American Vicuna

This shy and vigilant animal is classi-
ﬁed as a wild species of llama dwelling
in the mountain ranges of Peru and
Bolivia in almost inaccessible haunts.

These beautiful creatures are exceed-
ingly difﬁcult of capture and stoutly
resist domestication. They are hunted
by the Indians for their woolly coats of
extremely delicate texture.

“Rosita,” shown below, was bought by
the Americans at the Carnegie Magnetic
Institute.

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

ﬁlay,1941

Shapes That Pass in the Night

WILLIAM MacMILLAN

the woods in the stillness of the

night; the feathered shapes of
hunting owls, the shambling shapes of
frog-hunting coons, and the hundred and
one other shapes, feathered and furred,
that go to make up the wild folk.

Of them all the most fascinating and
intriguing is the pencil-shaped little ani—
mal known as the weasel. It is just
possible, of course, that he and his kins-
men are all people say of them; thieves
in the night and killers to boot. All
this notwithstanding he Whisks silently
through the underbrush, one of the
enigmas of nature, an adventurer par
excellence.

He isn’t much to look at when he ﬁrst
slips, unobtrusively, into the world. But,
then, what animal is? When he attains
his full growth of some sixteen inches,
plus ﬁve inches of tail, he is one of the
graceful shapes to pass in the night.

His body is round and muscular, and
geared for wriggling in and out of seem--
ingly impossible places. His legs are
astonishingly short, while his neck is
long and sinewy.

It would be nice to say that he holds
the world in proud disdain. As a matter
of fact he doesn’t. He has an Achilles’
Heel, an abiding fear of attack from the
air. Against such an attack his defenses
are weak and futile, so that when a
hawk, or owl, power—dives at him from
the blue all he can do is to throw himself
on his back and rake his enemies with
eviscerating claws.

&_ LL kinds of shapes pass through

 

WEASEL AT ELK REFUGE,
WYOMING

A weasel’s eyes are uncommonly sharp
and bright, missing nothing. And his
ears are microphonic, catching and
amplifying the faintest sounds. He isn’t
on speaking terms with water, as it were,
and will travel for miles and miles rather
than risk wetting his feet. He makes his
home in any hole offering protection
from hawks, owls and snakes, and will
put up with all sorts of hardships and
discomforts.

Most people are surprised to learn that
this indefatigable little creature is dark-
brown in summer. This is just as
well, because his life wouldn’t be worth
a moment’s purchase if he dared venture
abroad in his white coat against the dark
green of the summer woods.

As the summer slips into autumn and
the tang of frost rides the night winds,
turning the leaves of the sour-gums
bright red in color, a change comes over
the shapes that pass in the night. Al-
most immediately our sharp—nosed little
friend’s coat is ﬂecked with creamy spots
and stripes. The dark-brown quickly
gives way to white and yellow, and he
emerges, soon, a brand new creature
with the world at his feet.

The young, four to eight at a time,
are born in the spring, when the woods
are a mass of changing greens and the
scent of magnolia blossoms ﬁlls the air.

To many observers the graceful little
animal under review is outside the pale
because of his predatory habits. This,
fortunately, does not lessen his appeal
to the imagination. He ﬁts perfectly into
the scheme of things and is living proof
that God does move in a mysterious way
his wonders to perform.

The photograph reproduced above,
showing a weasel at Elk Refuge, Wyom—
ing, is from the U. S. Bureau, Biological
Survey.

 




 

Page 106

held in the Congregational Church, Hyde
Park, under the direction of Dr. George
W. Owen, with an illustrated address on
“Bird Life in Science and Song,” by
Horace Taylor of the American Orni-
thologists’ Union. There was also a rally,
under the sponsorship of the Lions’ Club
of Watertown, in the High school audi-
torium, with an illustrated lecture by
Mr. Burgess.

Mr. Burgess also showed his interest-
ing animal pictures accompanied by his
explanatory talk, at the Y. W. C. A. in
Holyoke, on Tuesday evening, under the
auspices of the Holyoke Branch, Massa-
chusetts S. P. C. A.

Humane Day in Schools

Humane Day in schools was generally
observed throughout the state. The
Massachusetts S. P. C. A. contributed
nearly 10,000 pamphlets of Humane
Exercises for the use of teachers of ele-
mentary grades. Among the many excel—
lent programs presented were those at
the Leonard school, Malden; the Pond
End school, Waltham; the Noonan
school, Woburn; the Howard school,
Brockton; and the Prospect school,
Gardner. Mrs. Marion R. Taylor visited
several of the schools in Winchester
where singing, recitations, and the pres—
entation of plays were the principal
features. Miss Ella A. Maryott of the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A. exhibited
lantern slides in connection with school
addresses in Revere, Boston, and West
Bridgewater. The Society’s ﬁlms were
exhibited in a number of schools and
churches and at the Children’s Museum,
Jamaica Plain. During the Week the
Lowell Humane Society began a cam-
paign to form a junior society among
public and parochial school children in
the city and suburbs. A program of hu-
mane education was started with the dis-
tribution of Be Kind to Animals posters
in all the schools.

The Brockton Humane Society took
advantage of the Week to hold a tag day
on Saturday, when school children as—
sisted in the sale of tags in competition
for prizes for obtaining the largest
amounts. This was a marked success,
and resulted in a substantial addition to
the Society’s treasury.

Newspapers of Boston and the state
co—operated with generous publicity in
connection with Be Kind to Animals
Week. Especially noteworthy were the il-
lustrations in the Republican, Spring—
ﬁeld, and the cartoons and animal pic-
tures in the Christian Science Monitor,
Boston. One of these cartoons, by L. F.
van Zelm, is reproduced in full on page
107 of this issue. Timely editorials ap-
peared in a number of papers, including
the Post, Boston; Independent, Bridge-
water; News, Framingham; Citizen-
Leader, Lowell; and Gazette, Worcester.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Essay Contest in Nashua, N. H.

Through the efforts of Mrs. Marion S.
Draper, vice—president of the New Hamp—
shire Humane Society, a very successful
humane essay contest was held in the
schools of Nashua in connection with Be
Kind to Animals Week. Subscriptions to
Our Dumb Animals were used as prizes.

Proclamation in Rhode Island

Be Kind to Animals Week was offici-
ally proclaimed by Governor McGrath of
Rhode Island and Mayor Roberts of
Providence praised the “exemplary work”
of the Rhode Island Humane Education
Society. Dr. James F. Rockett, director
of education, Superintendent George G.
C. Horr of the Boys’ Club, and Senator
Gerry all gave their unqualiﬁed endorse-
ment of the efforts of the Society, both
in its extensive program for the Week
and in its regular activities. Prominent
educators and others gave radio talks on
Humane Sunday; a most successful pet
show took place at the Boys’ Club Wed-
nesday; and Girl Scout Troop 48 organ-
ized a group of animal lovers among its
members who own pets. The Providence
Journal, as usual, presented several illus—
trated features, including an original
cartoon, by Halladay, on the danger to
dogs in automobile trafﬁc.

Notable Broadcast from New York

One of the ﬁnest humane broadcasts
ever given was that telling the story of
Henry Bergh and the founding of the
American S. P. C. A., with Albert Pay-
son Terhune as narrator, which was pre-
sented on the “Cavalcade of America”
period by the National Broadcasting
Company, Monday evening.

Much Publicity in New Jersey

The Hudson County District S. P.
C. A., Jersey City, received much favor—
able publicity in connection with its ob-
servance of the Week. Pictorial features
appeared in the Jersey Journal, the J er-
sey Observer, and the Hudson Dispatch.
Two of these were original cartoons re-
lating to the work of the Society.

Cameras Exchanged for Guns

One of the features of the observance
in Pittsburgh, sponsored by the Western
Pennsylvania Humane Society, was the
exchange of 50 cameras for air riﬂes
with boys of the city schools, for which
many expressions of approval were re-
ceived. A big humane poster contest was
held, with 3,000 posters on public dis-
play. For the best of these 85 prizes and
more than 600 honor certiﬁcates were
awarded. Four national humane honor
medals were presented, one to a dog for
saving 14 human lives, the others to hu-
mans for saving dogs’ lives. Moving
picture houses co-operated generally by
showing “The Great Meddler,” the new

June, 191,1

ﬁlm illustrating the life of Henry Bergh.
All ministers were offered suitable lit-
erature for Humane Sunday and all
schools were supplied with copies of the
national Be Kind to Animals poster.

Governor of Illinois Endorses Week

“I gladly endorse Be Kind to Animals
Week and commend its purpose,” wrote
Governor Green of Illinois to Mrs. Jennie
R. Toomim, representative of the Ameri—
can Humane Education Society. In co-
operation with the Illinois Humane So—
ciety Mrs. Toomim arranged for the dis-
tribution of 4,000 copies of “Humane
Exercises for the Use of Teachers” in
the schools of Chicago and sponsored a
contest for the best stories, playlets and
poems on kindness to animals written
by pupils of the sixth to eighth grades
in both public and parochial schools, for
which the Illinois Humane Society gave
72 cameras. Several humane programs
were presented on various radio stations
during the Week.

Work in Minnesota Commended

Under the caption, “National Kind-
ness Week Set Down in a World Passing
Unkind,” the Daily Enterprise of Vir-
ginia, Minnesota, carried a leading edi-
torial warmly endorsing the work of the
Minnesota Society for Prevention of
Cruelty, and calling attention to the ex-
cellent anti-cruelty laws in that state.

Many Humane Sermons in Virginia

Through the efforts of Rev. J. W.
Lemon, colored representative of the
American Humane Education Society, a
large number of ministers in Virginia
observed Humane Sunday by preaching
appropriate sermons. Through contacts
with teachers at the State Teachers’
Association Mr. Lemon was the means
of inspiring many Humane Day observ-
ances in the schools. In some instances
pupils brought in their pets. In others
the children recited poems that they had
written on kindness to animals and
joined in the singing of humane songs.

Full Program in South Carolina

At the suggestion of Seymour Car—
roll, representing the American Humane
Education Society, Governor Maybank of
South Carolina issued a splendid Be
Kind to Animals Week Proclamation in
which he stated that “no state nor nation
can prosper that tolerates cruelty.”
Proclamations calling upon the people to
observe the Week were issued also by
Mayor Owens of Columbia; Dr. J. H.
Hope, state superintendent of education;
Hon. J. B. Felton, state supervisor of
colored schools, and Mr. J. B. Burgess,
president of the State Teachers’ Associa—
tion of South Carolina. Radio programs
were given by teachers and outstanding
citizens over stations in Columbia, Green-
ville, Charleston, Spartanburg and An-

 




 

 

 

A 6

ﬂ‘ﬁp‘

_ D

    

VJ
, {fly/11441114111141“.“ ":7 ,

At the Z00

LOIS SNELLING

I went for a visit to the zoo one day,

And saw how the elephant eats his hay.

I watched the lions as they proudly stalked,
And listened to parrots who chattered and talked.
Behind his bars, in a coat of brown,

A lonely bear paced up and down,

And the camel seemed too tired to pack

The rounded hump in the middle of his back.
The monkeys shinnied about with vim,

And munched the peanuts handed them.

But the strangest thing I saw at the zoo

Was a long-legged mamma kangaroo.

Her baby peeped from a pouch she had

In front of her for the little tad.

And the ostrich, too, was a funny sight,

With his handsome plumes and his lofty height.
I learned a lot at the zoo that day,

But I wasn’t quite happy as I went away.

I longed to open each gate with a key,

And let the animals all go free.

“Bucephalus”
ELSIE GRANT HENSON

HE story of “Bucephalus” shows that it pays to be

kind to dumb animals. His ox—like head gave this
coal-black charger his name. Long ago in Macedonia Bu-
cephalus was brought before King Phillip who wanted to
buy him. Young Alexander, the prince, watched rider
after rider being thrown by the horse. In a rage the
king ordered the horse away, saying it was vicious.

“Wait, father!” Alexander begged. “What a pity so
ﬁne an animal should be sent away. Let me ride him!”

To give him a good lesson the king permitted his son
to try. Alexander was wise—he tried kindness. He
turned the quivering animal so it could not see its shadow.
He petted Bucephalus, talking to him in soothing tones.

Because Alexander proved he could ride the horse,
the king gave Bucephalus to his son.

When Alexander became king he always rode Bu~
cephalus. The horse was always kind and gentle to his
master. During a battle, when spears fell on every side,
the horse showed such devotion that the world was deeply
moved. Disobeying his master, Bucephalus refused to go
on into battle. Alexander was hurt that his faithful
horse should disobey until he learned the truth. Bu—
cephalus was mortally wounded. After carrying his master
far from danger, the horse sanlq to the ground and died.
Alexander was deeply touched by this last act of devo—
tion. Monuments have been erected to the faithful
Bucephalus. How plainly this old tale shows that an
animal repays kindness with devotion.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS ‘ ' r

 

Page 199

i
i
l
i
1
’5

  
    
 

wuww'iw M

    
 

ii

. —%"‘
"’/
. . ~ \ c‘ f" o :. .1'.‘ I'“ ..~.

J: ‘-., “'3‘"? v
‘2‘;- "%.:‘£‘\“"’4' I." b??? w '
”ﬁgs‘Vy‘f‘b-E “1,371 .
is? 'L s' ' to ' _; ' '
in > ._.,. é .--~ "-4 ’. s» ‘k‘ .’ japan 1 ‘l'l
1" ’” (3'4“ --: ..= s - “\N" " W l “NV 5‘“ W: \
“-3,! J: '(T' (A [S '.’/,,,,a,;));s;3, "—11.71/ .. _' a .\ /:\E)"’A\m:?: \
. ~. “'5 ‘ '-m ’. 1",, . .-: ,, . ’
\‘* :- > W m» ""6 ~ i” / meant; 2 ,
; W :m a! 1"} ‘I \_ g _ ' , "\\\\\é\\‘. Wag/1., .

I

‘ :
K
h
\\
u) ml! in” lllllh)m“\\\

l’..

‘c
_ pg.
\\
/
(It

w

 

Photo by W. Henry Boller

BOON COMPANIONS

 

Friend Indeed!

F. J. WORRALL

AVE you a dog in your home? If so, you are
lucky for nowhere in the world will one ﬁnd a
heart that beats. with more loyal devotion.

No move of yours escapes his watchful eye. He “dogs”
your every step jealously, guards you protectively, you
are his world.

Do you feel blue and disgusted at times with every-
thing in general? Of course you do. Then, you ﬂop your-
self into an easy chair and bury your face in your hands.
What happens? A cold nose nuzzles itself between your
ﬁngers sympathetically, trying hard to give you the com-
fort you need. If, in an impatient mood, you sometimes
even turn on “Old Faithful,” he crouches unhappily at
your feet, a picture of abject woe. If you illtreat him in
a burst of temper (which Heaven forbid) his sensitive
spirit cowers in the depths of despair. His whole world

topples about him.

Forgotten and forgiven always are the thoughtless
little hurts and the cross words of your unworthy self.

But let Fortune smile upon you with the world at your
feet, his canine happiness knows no bounds.

Children, be good to your dog for you will never ﬁnd
another friend like him.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 234

WHEN DAY’S WORK IS DONE
Photo by E. F. Paschall

 

A Bedouin Trait

MARY AGNES COLVILLE

HE “Bedouins” (that native name

used by the nomadic tribes of Arabia
to distinguish themselves from the sed-
entary Arabs of the towns) are usually
associated in our minds with the camel,
inasmuch as his camel caravan is the
chief mode of travel of the Bedouin and
his family, and its milk the principal
nourishment of his children.

However, where the Bedouin may take
his camel for granted as an every day
commonplace factor in the business of
living, his horse is something different.
The horse is elevated, perhaps by his su-
perior intelligence, to a higher place in
the Bedouin’s mind.

Harsh and untutored though he may
be in other ways, the Bedouin’s ﬁnest
characteristic seems to be his really deep
affection for his horse — his concern
for its welfare. It would seem that at
times he is half apologetic to it for the
grim discomforts of desert living, even
though no self pity may enter his mind
over the scorching heat and inconven-
iences of the desert wastes.

More than one cultured traveler, ex-
ploring the desert regions, has been
greatly impressed by this feeling of

  
 
  

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

these nomadic peo—
ple for their equine
companions.

It has been re—
lated by these same
travelers on more
than one occasion
that when food is
scarce, it is inva—
riably the Bedouin
who goes voluntarily
hungry or only half
nourished, some-
times for days at a
stretch, in order
that his horse may
not suffer. The hor—
ses must have their
sustenance from the

scant supplies at
whatever cost to
their owners.

Wells supplying

fresh drinking wa—
ter are found only
infrequently on the
long desert treks,
and so the mares
and colts are given
camel’s milk twice
daily. Come what
may in deprivation,
there is no thought
of stinting them.

In fact, in this re-
spect, it would seem
that this strangely
wise though usually illiterate son of the
desert might often teach a lesson to the
world beyond his elemental environs.

When Winter Comes

THE rapid approach of the late fall

and winter seasons makes it almost
mandatory to urge upon pet owners that
they exercise care and consideration for
their little charges during the cold, damp
and otherwise inclement days ahead.
Seems strange, doesn’t it, that such a
warning should be necessary? However,
instances of lack of consideration of ani-
mals, witnessed no longer than last win-
ter, prompt this reminder.

When subjecting their pets to unnec-
essary exposure during the late fall and
winter months, many owners console
themselves with the thought that Na-
ture takes care of pets by providing
them with extra fur as a natural pro-
tection against the elements. The ani-
mal who lives outdoors all of the time
may beneﬁt by such natural protection,
but what of the pet who is kept in a
steam-heated, over-heated apartment or
house and only gets out for an “airing”
once or twice a day? The reaction of
cold and dampness on them is the same
as on a human who is not properly
clothed.

Dec. 1941

Flight
Ellen D. Masters

The Wise Men came and went away;
No star blazed where the young Child lay.

A selfish monarch darkly schemed.
Lone Mary pondered; Joseph dreamed.

A gripping fear, a darkening night—
A hasty bundle, packed for flight.

Sweeter than notes of heavenly tone—
A donkey's hoof-beats on the stone:

Such hope, such aid four feet afford,
Bearing the Babe from Herod’s sword!

In Ramah, Rachel sadly wails.
(Old earth was used to horror-tales.)

But Mary's fright and Rachel's tears
Mingle afresh these later years.

Come to my heart, through chaos wild,
Hunted as Jesus—refugee child.

 

There are just a few simple rules to
be followed for the proper protection of
our dumb animals during the winter
season. Dogs should not be taken for
long walks in the rain or slush and they
should be provided with a blanket on
cold, wintry days. A horse should never
be left standing for too long a period in
the cold. No matter how long he is left
standing, he should not be without the
protection of a blanket. Cats should not
be let outdoors during severe snow or
rain. Bird pets should be protected
against drafts by being kept away from
open doors and windows. In cold cli-
mates animals should not be compelled
to sleep outdoors during the period from
November through March. To make
them do so is careless neglect.

This writer talks from experience.
Years ago, through thoughtlessness (call
it negligence, if you will), he lost a
beautiful white canary because it was
left in a draft overnight. And he almost
lost his dog because he was one of those
who thought a dog could be kept in an
over—heated house all day and be taken
out in cold, slushy weather without dan-
ger to the animal.

Experience may be a good teacher, but
it sometimes can teach a bitter lesson.

T.J.M.

White Wings
Harry Elmore Hurd

Be quiet, every throat that sings—
Beware white beauty in the night—
Swift is the arctic owl's flight.

Defense/e55 rabbit, do not stir—
Hide beneath dark juniper-—
Shun the shadow of white wings.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Page 108

Casualty List
Louise Leighton

Although I came quite close to the gros-
beak's nest,

Serene, she kept her post in the cherry tree;

The urge to guard the jewels beneath her
breast

Had greater power than any fear of me.

Her mate nearby, wearing a crimson rose,

Carolled his tenderest notes to cheer and
woo,

And every time his song came to a close,

He asked me softly it I liked it, too.

Last night on enemy slunk down the hill;

Among the grasses, reddened shells are
scattered.

The cherry boughs are empty. All is still

In this green place where a song and a
dream were shattered.

Odds and Ends

M. H. MORGAN

JUST to get the record straight—the
higher vertebrates which nurse their
young, are known as mammalia, from
mammae or breasts; and these mammalia
are separated into two divisions known
as the carnivora or meat-eaters; and the
herbivora or grass-eaters. Each of these
divisions have certain distinguishing
characteristics which are of especial
beneﬁt to their owners.

There is the matter of eyes. The eyes
of the carnivora are set in front, while
those of the herbivora are on the sides
of the head. The iris of the climbers or
meat-eating cats is narrow and perpen—
dicular, while those of the grass-eaters
are horizontal; their food being found
principally on the ﬂat ground.

Five toes front and back indicate car-
nivora, the toes being furnished with
claws for tearing and holding their
prey. Even man the meat—eater has ﬁve
ﬁngers and ﬁve toes, but his claws need
not be so long.

The horney—hoofed creatures, such as
the horse, belong to the herbivorous
group. When these hooves are split, or
divided into two parts, the animal is
known as a ruminant or cud-chewer.
Cattle, deer, goats, camels are found in
this class. However, there are grass-
eaters possessing the split hoof which do
not chew the cud, such as the pig.

Horns on the head are also an adjunct
of many of the herbivora although not
all of them. However, no carnivora has
horns. '

The carnivorous animals do not nor-
mally eat the ﬂesh of other carnivora, pre-
ferring, instead, that of the grass-eaters.
Even man consumes the ﬂesh of beef,
mutton, rabbits and even the dishonored
pork rather than that of dogs, cats,
wolves, etc.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

June, 191,1

Some Birds — Their Faults and Virtues
' ALVIN.M. PETERSON

Photograph by the Author

 

OME ﬁshermen consider herons and
S kingﬁshers to be enemies because

they secure part of their food supply
from lakes and streams, taking some
small ﬁsh now and then. However, most
of the ﬁsh such birds take are of little
use to man, many of them being shiner
minnows, which are of little use save
that of serving as food for other ﬁsh.
Shiner minnows often are to be found by
the thousands in suitable places, there
being more than enough of them to feed
our game ﬁsh and the herons and king—
ﬁshers also. No doubt herons and king-
ﬁshers also catch a few small game fish
and this is about the only harm they do.
In so doing, they are no worse than the
game ﬁsh themselves, which eat their
own young with as much relish as the
young of other ﬁsh. Herons and bitterns
also eat frogs, snails, crawﬁsh, and other
similar creatures, doing their hunting
about ponds, marshes, pools and shallows
and not taking enough ﬁsh to affect the
supply.

We now have fewer ﬁsh than we
formerly had, but the blame for this does
not rest upon the birds, but on man him—
self. Man drains and thus destroys the
breeding grounds of ﬁsh; he dumps poi-
sons into streams and kills them by the
thousands; and he seines and dynamites.

Fifty years ago there were more herons,
bitterns and kingﬁshers than there now
are and then our lakes and streams
teemed with ﬁsh, indicating the birds are
not to blame for present ﬁshing condi-
tions. Fish, wild animals and game birds
usually decrease in numbers when people
settle a region, proving that folks and
some of the former do not mix or get
along well together. The hunter or ﬁsher-
man who wishes to go where he will be
sure of ﬁnding an abundance of game or
ﬁsh does not travel towards but away
from civilization, where human beings
are scarce and where kingﬁshers, herons,
bitterns and ﬁsh get along very well
with one another.

Crows sometimes take newly sprouted
corn, spread the seeds of noxious plants
and the germs of disease, and molest
birds and poultry. On the other hand,
they also spread useful plants and de-
stroy carrion, insects and small animal
pests. The United States Department of
Agriculture has made a painstaking
study of this bird and sums up its ﬁnd-
ings thus: “The misdeeds of which the
crow has been convicted greatly outnum-
ber its Virtues, but these are not neces-
sarily equal in importance. Much of its
damage to crops and poultry can be pre-
vented, while the bird’s services in the

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

4;,»:‘_ 7.“.

 

N02). 191,1

 

 

2 —-—Anxious

——So, Rex is admitted to the hospital,
laced in the capable hands of Dr.
Siegle . . . and before long a sturdy splint supports his
injured leg. Anxious, Jean keeps peeking in to see that Rex

is okay and to offer a few words of encouragement. See
No. 3 0 O O

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

The Valuable Ermine

ELLA WILSON HILL

OLDFOOT is an Alaskan town far

above the Arctic Circle where the
rats once almost took over the ware—
house of a Northern Commercial Com-
pany’s branch store. Rice, flour, sugar
and other food commodities had to be
brought in while the river was open
in summer, and stored for the winter.
But ﬁght the rats as they would, with
everything but poison, the pests would
gnaw through and eat out great holes
in the sacks of edibles.

The N. C. agent sent word to Bettles,
his headquarters, to send him a cat.
Twenty dollars would be cheap, for he
had to have a cat, he said. The Bettles
boss sent back word that he had offered
forty, sixty, any price, but no one in
the Arctic would part with his cat.

One of the Coldfoot men, commiser—
ating, said that in England they had

Page 205

ferrets to rid them of rats, and that a
ferret was like an ermine—or weasel.

And then one day an ermine’s little
white head (for it was Winter and he
had on his protective—coloring coat)
popped through a knot-hole behind the
counter and his shiny black eyes explored
the surroundings. The clerks watched,
intrigued, until he popped back again.
They encouraged him with a saucer of
canned milk placed before the hole, and
it wasn’t long before he returned and
again looked about. Finally he had the
courage to try the milk, and once he had
tasted it, he came back for more.

Every day the clerks put down that
saucer of milk, each time a little closer
to the warehouse door where the rats
were. In time, the graceful white crea-
ture with his black-tipped tail would
streak boldly across the ﬂoor to the
warehouse to get his meal. He became
almost as friendly as a cat, took up his
abode around the warehouse, and effectu-
ally cleared the place of rats.

 

A BIG DECISION . . .

Jean Makes Right One. . . And All’s Well

Photographs and text reproduced by special permission of Boston American

1—Hesitant ——After deciding that treatment at the Angell Memorial,

Hospital would be the best thing for her injured pup,
Rex, Jean Marie O’Malley, 9, of St. Alphonsus St., Boston, almost has a change
of mind as she arrives at the institution . . . fearful that the doc may hurt her
pet. However, she went on . . . See below.

 

° —-After spending the most trying hour
3 Rfﬂleved of her young life, little Jean smiles

again as Rex is handed over to her by Dr. Siegle with a
word that “he’ll be as good as new in a day or two.” Now,
Jean lives only for the time that the splint will be removed
. . . and Rex will be tip-top.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Page ’7 6

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

SIR THOMAS TAKES A LUSTY YAWN

 

Wanted: Homes for Kittens
LOIS M. MARMON

EVERAL weeks ago I had an errand

in the opposite part of the town from
which I live. As I walked along my at—
tention was attracted by a most unusual
cardboard sign in a yard in front of a
white house. The sign, obviously home-
made and printed with black letters,
read, “Wanted: Homes for Kittens.”

I hesitated for a moment—I had been
wanting to get a cat, or kitten for some
time, but none of my neighbors had any
or knew of any available ones and I had
not looked any further. Surveying the
neat white house and yard I decided to
venture in and inquire if the sign were
some sort of a joke or prank, or if it
was bona ﬁde and kittens were avail-
able.

A pleasant middle-aged woman an-
swered my knock. When I told her I
noticed the sign in the yard and had
decided to see if I could get one of the
kittens for my own she asked me to step
into the living-room and have a chair.

The sign was the real thing all right.
The woman explained they had a pet cat
by the name of “Sadie” of which they
were unusually fond. Whenever Sadie had
kittens neither she nor her husband could
bear to do away with them and at the
same time they did not feel they could
keep all the kittens that Sadie presented
them with. And, so, the only answer to
the problem was to secure good homes
for the kittens, which, if you have tried
it, you will know isn’t always just so
easy to do.

The sign out in the yard had been the
husband’s idea. The wife had objected
just a little at ﬁrst, for fear folks would
think them queer. But, the husband
pointed out, since they lived on one of
the mainly traveled streets in the town
people might pass their home who either

wanted a kitten for themselves or knew
of someone who did and would post them.

“And does it work?” I asked.

“Oh, yes, indeed,” was the reply.
“Just last spring when we had the sign
out a farmer stopped and said he would
take all four of the kittens to his farm.
I got to see them this fall and my! what
nice big cats they have grown to be.
They really show their good keep.”

“We never let the kittens go until they
are weaned. And we always try to make
sure they are getting into good homes
where they will be kindly treated,” the
woman continued. I had noticed that all
the time we were talking she had re-
garded me closely and I knew she was
trying to determine if I would be a good
risk.

The result of it all was, I got a lovely
yellow kitten, nothing special about it,
for it is just a common cat, but it is
already a great pet and I hope proves to
be as good a mouser when it gets a
little older.

And, I have thought many times since
what a grand thing it was for those two
people to do to put forth their efforts
toward ﬁnding good homes for Sadie’s
kittens. Surely, such thoughtfulness and
tender regard for our dumb animals has
its own reward!

Bangor Humane Society

This Society, organized in 1869, re-
ports a year of successful service, at its
recent annual meeting. The Shelter for
animals which has been maintained for
some years has been put upon a perma-
nent basis and many improvements and
additions have been made through the

generous ﬁnancial aid of a friend now
deceased.

The humane education program car-

ried out by the Society in the schools
deserves high credit.

April, 1941

Helen Keller

The beautiful picture on the cover of
this issue needs no comment. This won-
derful woman has long been an inspira-
tion not only to the millions the world
over who have faced life with no serious
handicap but, above all, to those Who
have found her triumphant spirit vic-
torious over blindness, deafness and
inarticulate lips. That radiant soul’s
vision of the things unseen and eternal
has been nothing less than Heaven’s gift
to the world of today.

ACatLover
Harland E. Fitch

I called upon a poet once,
Both talented and young;

I think she worshiped at the shrine
‘Whence love for kittens sprung.

Upon her desk a china cat
As paper weight reposed;
About her shelves four china cats
In solid comfort dazed.

Two golden cats as bookends stood
To hold their weight and more;

A gorgeous black cat two feet tall
Was seated on the floor.

Eight splendid photographs of cats
Were hanging on the wall;

Then in came fluffy living cats
I swear you, five in all !

I’ve dipped my pen a thousand times
Where beauty’s fountains rise,
And now I honor one who? loves
A kitten's trusting eyes.

 

CONTENTED COMPANIONSHIP

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 86

food consists mainly of insects. Seventy-
ﬁve per cent of the food is vegetable, a
little waste grain, the rest weed seeds.

English sparrows are gleaners and
scavengers and help keep rats and mice
in check by depriving them of food.
However, these birds are not as numer—
ous in cities and villages as they once
were, this being due to the fact that the
automobile has replaced the horse. Eng—
lish sparrows thrive where horses are
kept. There now is little waste grain to
be found about cities, hence the English
sparrow has moved to the country, where
its opportunities for doing good are
greater, especially since it takes many
weed seeds.

English sparrows do a little harm in
gardens and appropriate nesting boxes
intended for other birds; they also take
some ' fruit, destroy some cultivated
plants, and eat some grain. On the other
hand, they destroy many insects and
much weed seed, the good they do no
doubt more than offsetting the harm.
These birds also have objectionable
roosting habits. More people, it seems to
me, must dislike the English sparrow
more for its ﬁlthy roosting habits than
for all its other shortcomings combined.
And the queer thing about the matter is
that we largely are responsible for the
trouble the bird causes us because we
are responsible for the conditions that
attract it. Tightly closed, well-painted
buildings do not appeal to this bird, but
unpainted, open, sagging and dilapidated
buildings are its delight. Naturally, too,
folks who throw their sweepings and
garbage just outside the door are doing
much to attract this bird and should not
feel offended if it comes. If you have
more English sparrows about your home
than you care to have, try removing the
conditions responsible for their presence
and see if you do not have less.

Biggest Money Insect in the
World

JOHN KNOX ODELL

“How doth the little busy bee,
Improve each shining hour?

And gather honey all the day
From every opening flower.”

T is estimated by careful entomolo—-

gists, that only about one per cent of
the insect species is responsible for in-
juries to man’s crops; but these are so
greedy, and so proliﬁc, that the damage
they do in the United States alone
amounts to more than a billion dollars a
year.

But the honey bee, as an indispensable
friend to man, is a money producer,
never a money reducer.

For, no doubt, the common honey bee,
in spite of sting and other stirring
propensities, is the most valuable insect
auxiliary man has in helping to produce
mammoth commercial crops of fruit, not
to mention its ability to manufacture

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

ﬁlay,1941

 

LONG-BILLED CURLEW

 

immense tonnage of honey running into
millions of dollars annually.

Government entomologists have stated
ofﬁcially that various types of insects
are responsible for 95% of the cross
pollination that takes place in fruit
orchards. Of all insects aiding in cross
pollination, the honey bee is regarded by
growers as far the most important.

The bee, in its Visits to the flowers on
the fruit trees, gathers nectar for its
own use in producing honey, and in ex-
change, it eventually leaves pollen that
has been picked up from other ﬂowers.
And while the bee is visiting the ﬂowers,
its body, which is covered with long
hairs, including the hind legs as “pollen
baskets,” comes in contact with the
anther, which carries about 25,000
grains of pollen.

While so moving about, every time
the bee’s body comes very close to the
stigma of the ﬂower, there is a good
chance of pollen from other ﬂowers being
deposited upon it.

It is wonderful what one grain of
pollen will do. To fertilize a fruit, it
requires a grain of pollen for each seed
carpel. In the apple it would take ﬁve
grains of pollen to fertilize all the seeds
in ﬁve carpels.

In common beehives, according to dif-
ferent types used, there are probably
20,000 to 40,000 bees. For general use a
hive of bees to each acre of orchard
would be enough to accomplish the pol—
lination the grower would usually desire.

Europe is the original habitat of the
common honey bee; but it is now widely
distributed, having been introduced into
North America about two hundred and
ﬁfty years ago, and to South America a
little more than ninety.

Its economic value is more and more
appreciated since the introduction of the
Italian variety into the United States.
These are known to be more docile in
their disposition, and more reliable as
faithful workers.

Curlews Face Extinction
W.J.BANKS

HE Eskimo curlew once rivaled the

passenger pigeon in its sky—darken-
ing numbers during migration. Greedy
hunters shot the birds in the Mississippi
valley by the wagon load, While in South
American wintering grounds there was
also terriﬁc slaughter. Result: the last
Eskimo curlew to be recorded deﬁnitely
was taken in the Argentine 16 years ago.
Fortunately, the somewhat larger Hud-
sonian curlew, which is seen on migra~
tion on both the Atlantic and Paciﬁc
coasts, seems to be holding its own on
the Arctic tundra from Hudson Bay to
Alaska.

But there is some danger that the
splendid long-billed curlew, a two-foot
giant among our shore birds, may go the
way of his little Eskimo cousin. Like
the bison, the prong-horned antelope
and the trumpeter swan, its once vast
numbers have been sadly decimated and
its wide range radically restricted. Once
a common wintering bird on the south
Atlantic coast and nesting from Ohio to
the Rockies, it has not been seen now
east of the Mississippi for many years.
In the secluded Cache valley of Utah and
in southeastern Montana there are still
extensive nesting colonies While a slight-
ly smaller sub-species (northern cur—
lew) breeds from South Dakota to the
Canadian prairies.

These curlews winter from Texas and
California south to Guatemala. Their
grotesquely long bills, curved slightly
downward, dexterously dig ﬁddler crabs
and other Victims from their burrows in
southern wintering grounds, While in
summer grasshoppers and other insects
form the staple diet. The nest, bearing
four large eggs, is a simple depression
on the prairie. The curlews nest in
somewhat scattered colonies and become

more gregarious when the young have
hatched.

 




 

 

 

Page 132

   
   

  

GOD,
PEACE ON EARTH,
KINDNESS, JUSTICE
AND MERCY TO
EVERY mee
CREATURE.

7
$
m
2‘;

     

Founded by Geo. T. Angell Incorporated 1889

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Officers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY& STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President and Ch. Fi-
nance Com., United Shoe Machinery Corporation

CHARLES E. SPENCER, JR., President, First National
Bank of Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

E. J. H. Escobar ,,,,, . ........ Colombia
Luis Pareja Cornejo ,,,,,,,,,,,, Ecuador
Charles A. Williams ,,,,,,,, , , , . France
Leonard T. Hawksley ,,,,,,,,,, Italy

S 0- Batra .................. India
Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe ,,,,,,,, Japan
Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ,,,,,, Madeira
Dr. A. T. Ishkanian ,,,,,,,,,,,, Mexico
Mrs. Alice W. Manning ,,,,,,,,, Turkey

Humane Press Bureau
Katherine H. Piper, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Field Workers of the Society
Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Illinois
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, South Carolina
Rev. R. E. Grifﬁth, De Land, Florida

Field Representative
Dr. Wm. F. H. Wentzel, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF FIELD
WORKERS FOR MAY, 1941

Number of Bands of Mercy formed, 348
Number of addresses made, 228
Number of persons in audiences, 31,480

Retirement Fund

E are receiving gifts to the Ameri-

can Humane Education Society as a
trust fund, the interest to be used for the
beneﬁt of ﬁeld missionaries and others who
have spent their lives in promoting humane
education. Already several cases have come
to our attention and are being relieved in
this way. We will welcome your contribu-
tion to this fund.

Please make checks payable to Albert A.
Pollard, Treasurer, American Humane Edu-
cation Society, 180 Longwood Avenue, Bos-
ton, and specify that the amount con-

tributed is for the Humane Education
Trust Fund.

OUR DUMB

BAB BOU—JELOUD, LARGEST GATE
OF FEZ, MOROCCO

ANIMALS

 

 

Congratulations, Mr. Batra!

EADERS of our magazine have

heard from time to time of a ﬁne
work that is being done in India by Mr.
S. C. Batra, organizer of Bands of Mercy.
Mr. Batra was recommended to us very
highly by a Yale professor who had come
to know him very well in India during
some months of residence there. Without
any support from us, save from time to
time some literature or Band of Mercy
buttons, Mr. Batra has organized a large
number of small humane groups amongst
boys and girls from ﬁve to twenty.

Last February they had a contest in
which prizes were given for the best
speakers on the subject of kindness to
animals. The prizes consisted of cups,
medals and books and other prizes.
Amongst them there was the Dr. Francis
H. Rowley trophy for the school or col-
lege which attained the greatest number
of winners. The one condition was that
everything must be original. Subjects
or poems copied from books or elsewhere
were disqualiﬁed. Oratory was not re-
quired, but simplicity and sincerity were
really what were to Win the prizes.

Very, attractive invitations were issued
by Mr. Batra to a tea to be held at the
Amritsar Hotel, Friday, the 7th of
March, at which Mrs. C. P. Skrine pre-
sented the prizes. Mr. Batra is backed
up by many of the ﬁne educators in the
section of India around him. His address
is: Imperial Hotel, Amritsar, India.

July, 191,1

The Work in Fez

E have just received from Mr. De-

lon, superintendent of the Ameri-
can Fondouk in Fez, Morocco, a report
for the month of March which is exceed-
ingly encouraging, considering the state
of affairs in Morocco and elsewhere due
to the war.

He says in his letter:

“Life here is quite normal except that
we are getting short of many kinds of
food and the cost of living is rising to
an awful proportion.

“It is a great chance that Mrs. Lyon
(treasurer of the Fondouk) has suc-
ceeded in making an arrangement
whereby the transfer of funds is still
coming to us. We have been receiving
money regularly and our work is getting
on as usual, and we are keeping the
Fondouk functioning in the best possible
manner up to the present time.”

Mr. Delon sends pictures of certain
sections of the native city of Fez which
are inspected, he says, by himself and
his men many times a week. I wish we
could produce them all. We do show one
picture of Bab Bou-Jeloud, the largest
and most important gate of the native
city, inspected four times a week by Mr.
Delon and his men.

The report for March follows:

Daily average large animals

Daily average dogs fed by fondouk

Animals put to sleep
Entries: 15 horses, 17 mules, 113 donkeys.
Exits: 17 horses, 12 mules, 107 donkeys.
Outpatients: 270 horses, 39 mules, 308 donkeys, 6

dogs, 2 goats, 1 cow.

w

was
HM}

INSPECTIONS:
Fondouks visited . . . . . . . . . . . ......... 449
Animals inspected ..... . . . . . . . . . . . . 7,509
Animals treated .................... 579
Animals sent to Hospital .................. 141
Pack-saddles destroyed ....................... 15
Arab bits destroyed ..................... 90
Transported to Hospital ..................... 3
Sent by Police Dept. ....................... 42

Radio Plays in Tacoma

Two plays of the American Humane
Education Society were used effectively
on the air in connection with the Hu—
mane Week celebration of the Tacoma
Humane Society, Washington. “I’ll Never
Hunt Again” was given by pupils of the
McKinley Hill school, while “A Little
Child Shall Lead Them” was broadcast
by a group from the University Place
school on a program directed by Doreen
Hopper, with a dedication to the memory
of “Kim,” a beloved Airedale. These and
many other activities were inspired by
Mrs. E. P. Byrne, who spoke before the
council of the Parent—Teacher Associa-
tion and arranged for the exhibition of
humane posters in each school room and
distributed literature to schools and to
ministers. She also spoke several times
on the radio and interviewed Boy Scout
ofﬁcials, editors, and other civic leaders.
The mayor of the city issued a proclama-
tion in behalf of Be Kind to Animals
Week.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ﬂom f/zeﬁmous~
Golden Glow Shops

 

 

 

 

YOU NEED

 

The Moxie Co., Boston

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

EASTMAN HEAT
CONTROL CORP.

 

45 MILK STREET

BOSTON

 

 

l

 

 

 

 

 

 

BLAKE & REBHAN CO.

Stationers

115 FEDERAL STREET
BOSTON

Telephone, LlBer’ry 6686

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

JOHN McCOURT C0.
CONTRACTORS

910 HUNTINGTON AVE.
BOSTON

Telephone, BEAcon 0310

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

K

 

 

PILGRIM BADGE AND
LABEL CORP.

610 Memorial Drive - Cambridge
Telephone, Klelond 8083

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

WHITE BROS.
Milk

50 BROOKS STREET
QUINCY

 

 

Telephone, GRAnite 8000

 

 

 

 

 

Member Florists Telegraph Delivery Association

VILLAGE FLOWER SHOP

ARTISTIC FLOWER ARRANGEMENTS
103 VVashinzt-on Street, Brookline, Mass.
BEAeon 0000-6001

Francis G. Carreiro Frederick C. Carreiro

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

MURPHY CHEVROLET COMPANY, Inc.

711 Columbia Road

Telephone, GENevo 3100

 

M

M‘

 

Dorchester

l
/

 

 

 

 

 

 

5 Purchase Street

 

 

 

NEW YORK
R

 

WILD & STEVENS, Inc.

M

JOHN C. PAIGE & COMPANY
Dependable INSURANCE of Every Descri

 

 

 

 

Boston

 

 

 

 

 

    
  

Macalaster Bieknell Co.

171 WASHINGTON STREET
CAMBRIDGE

 

 

 

 

 

Since 1876

40 BROAD STREET, BOSTON

 

 

    

ption

PORTLAND

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Page 116

“Kopykats”
Nixon Waterman

I was not eavesdropping, yet I overheard

One feathered friend tell another bird,

”These mortals think they are wondrous
wise

Since they’re learning how to sail the skies.

Why, that has been our constant joy

Since Father Adam was a boy!

You'd think, with their bragging and their
bluff,

They’ve found something new, but it's all
old stuff.

“Then, too, they’re boasting they've found
the means

For deep-sea diving—their submarines.

For mercy’s sake! Our friends, the fish,

Have been diving as deep and as long as

they’d wish

Since the time when Jonah,—historians
note,—

Had the very first submarine passenger
boat!

I'd think these mortals,—-now, wouldn’t you,
Would try to find something really new?"

Without Substitute

L. E. EUBANKS

][N a small room of a factory building

in Hoboken a woman is employed at
very unusual work, the gathering of
spider web. Her spiders are procured
from the pig—sties at Secaucus, N. J., and
only a certain kind will do. They are kept
in boxes until needed. Instantly when
liberated the insect makes for a window,
leaving a long trail of silvery gossamer.
It is the woman’s job to wind this care-
fully on little reels; she winds to within
twelve or ﬁfteen inches of the spider,
then awaits its next sprint.

The reels, each containing 23 feet of
gossamer, are packed into specially made
containers, to be shipped by order. As far
as I know, the spider silk is used com-
mercially only for precision instruments,
probably because there is so little of it
available that experiments to adapt it to
wider use are not worth while.

It is a wonder of nature, with a tensile
strength one and a half times greater
than a piece of steel of the same dimen-
sions. For a few super-delicate instru-
ments, the strands have even been split
for ﬁneness. I understand that the Brit-
ish government now has a man for this
highly delicate work of spider-thread
splitting.

Many efforts have been made to ﬁnd
satisfactory substitutes for gossamer.
Hair, silk, wire, and other substances
have failed. For the cross hairs in optical
and precision instruments like telescopes,
bomb sights, range ﬁnders, etc., there is
no equal of spider web—stronger than
steel or platinum wire of like diameter,

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

and sufficiently elastic to hold itself tight
and straight.

The threads now used in England are
taken from the gray-backed spiders that
live on dahlias. When the spider has been
captured for His Majesty’s service it is
kept in close conﬁnement for two days
without food, so that impurities may be
eliminated from the silk. Then the hun—
gry spider is allowed to spin for ﬁfteen
minutes and the thread is wound on
frames.

Think twice before you go into the
business of spider-thread selling. It must
not be very attractive, for during ﬁfty
years the employers of the “spider lady,”
above referred to, have been unable to
procure her an assistant. Further, not
just any spider will do; the gossamer of
the small gray insect is too brittle, and
that of the black yellow—splashed variety
has proved disappointing in several re-
spects.

While commercial uses of spider—
thread, as l have said, are very few, R.
C. Andrews tells us that in parts of New
Guinea the natives use a dip net made of
a large spider web to catch small ﬁsh. A
piece of cane is bent into an oval shape
and twisted around and around among
large spider webs until three or four
layers are stretched across the frame. Al-
though ﬂat when made, it is so elastic
that under pressure it becomes bag-
shaped. One advantage of this net for
ﬁshing is that when in the water it is
absolutely invisible.

‘GAME 7'

CROSSING

mm: cameras

” ‘ » sue-3
lZAAK wigggmﬁt ,

 

  
 
   

June, 1941

Protecting Wild Life

THAN KS to the Izaak Walton League
of Akron, Ohio, the wild life of that
state is protected far more than formerly
and more than in many other states.
This is because of the signs that have
been set along the highways where game
is plentiful and where much has been
killed in earlier years. The signs are
28 X 36, erected on posts 4 X 4, seven
feet high, and are attractively printed
and designed as the illustration shows.
Besides protecting the game, these signs
are teaching young people to be conser-
vation-minded. This is a good example
that has been set by the Akron Chapter
and may offer suggestions to others who
wish to protect game and wild life.
LOUISE PRICE BELL

Notable Animal Ancients
EWEN K. PATTERSON

HE world has lost one of its most

notable animal ancients with the
recent death in Africa of the oldest ani-
mal ever known. This was “Lutembi,”
the famous sacred crocodile of Lake
Victoria, Uganda.

Lutembi was known to be at least 300
years old, and he was regarded as sacred
by millions of African natives. He was
different from other crocodiles, which
are usually savage creatures, for he had
a friendly disposition, and would even
answer his name. Whenever a
native stood on the shores of
the lake and called “Lutembi!
Lutembi!” the crocodile, if
within hearing, would come
ﬂoating along like a log of
wood, and then waddle ashore
to ﬂop down within a few feet
of the native. If too far away
to hear his name called, a few
smacks on the water with a ﬂat
piece of board would bring the
crocodile on the scene, the Vi-
brations on the water being ap-
parently much stronger than
the human voice.

Lutembi was so tame and
friendly that on one occasion
when a native, acting as a
guide to a party of tourists,
offered the crocodile a ﬁsh by
hand instead of dangling it
from: a stick, as was usually
done, Lutembi grabbed the ﬁsh
and also the man’s arm. But
the crocodile realized his mis-
take and promptly opened his
jaws again to release the
terror—stricken native!

Among other notable animal
ancients still living throughout
the world is the famous sacred
turtle of lonely Tongabatu Is-
land in the South Paciﬁc Ocean.

 

 




 

 

‘c‘gg

 

 

Page 68

A Blue Jay

Christine Park Hankinson

A blue jay called this morning,
“Jay! Jay! Jay!”

I hurried to the doorway
To witness his display

Of burning-brimstone color
Before he flew away.

At once he hurled his music,
"Jay! Jay! Jay!"
Swinging from a cedar
Like a blue bouquet
Of the summer beauty
That had gone astray.

He had one note to offer—
”Jay! Jay! Jay!"
(But if you listen closely
He has a song, they say);
But, oh, he wears the glamour

Of any holiday.

For Humane Day in Schools

The American Humane Education So-
ciety publishes no less than eight dif-
ferent plays for presentation by grade
pupils. The newest one is called “A Place
for Pets,” with three boy and three girl
characters, and runs about twenty min-
utes. Price, six for 10 cents, postpaid;
sample free.

 

HUNGRY YOUNG BLUE JAY

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Episode in the Yard
ALVIN M. PETERSON

BEGAN to feed the birds in earnest

the middle of December that year,
shoveling the snow from the ground
beneath the branches of a red cedar that
stands a little over a rod from the east
windows and scattering a quantity of
corn there the ﬁrst thing in the morning.
Hardly was I inside the house again than
I found that a number of bobwhites al-
ready had discovered the food. The birds
remained in the Vicinity the remainder
of the day, eating a meal, then sitting
in a group beneath the cedar or a near-
by grape trellis, or wandering to the
garden and running about some shocks
of corn standing there. Naturally, by
night, not a kernel of the corn was left.

I scattered more corn beneath the
cedar the next morning and soon had
a strange guest, a hungry rabbit no less.
I long had suspected that rabbits were
eating part of the food I threw outside
for the birds, since I found their tracks
leading to a feeding place beside the
base of a large oak south of the garage.
Now, I was to have positive proof for
my suspicions, as there sat a rabbit,
picking up one kernel after another,
working his jaws rapidly from side to
side, and enjoying a feast. He actually
ate kernels so fast that I began to won-
der if there would be any left for
the bobwhites. I opened the win-
dow and shouted “shoo,” and then
bunny stood up, looked intently
my way, then resumed his meal.
When he stood up he held his
front paws over his stomach, re-
minding me of the similar atti-
tude frequently assumed by squir-
rels. And once he wiped the snow
from his mouth and whiskers
much like a cat.

The second guest that morning
was a cardinal. It settled on the
ground about three feet from the
rabbit and ate several kernels of
corn before ﬂying back to the
cedar. Finally, it alighted on the
ground near the rabbit, darted for
the animal, and returned to the
cedar. Bunny was taken entirely
by surprise. He dodged, turned
quickly and stuck out both front
paws as if to protect himself or
give the bird a push, and hopped
beneath the cedar. Out he came
again to be followed shortly by
the bird. This time the cardinal
hopped past the rabbit, and again
the latter acted much as before,
quickly rising and sticking out
both front feet as if to give the
bird a rude push. That ended the
hostilities, however, since there-
after the two fed farther apart
and got along better.

April, 191,1

A blue jay arrived next and, without
any fussing, settled upon the ground,
picked up some corn and ﬂew off. It was
back in a few minutes for more. Strange-
ly enough, neither the jay nor the card-
inal seemed to fear the rabbit in the
least. I could not help wondering just
how they would have acted had the rab-
bit been a cat. They certainly would
have known it at once. Apparently, both
birds were well acquainted with the rab-
bit, knew he was harmless, and treated
him much as they would another bird.
Had he been a cat they would have
known it at once, set up a great clamor
no doubt, and kept discreetly out of
reach.

Remembers Birds in Will

JOHN KNOX ODELL

Not often does it occur that a man
thinks of the well—being of. birds, travel-
ing in migratory ﬂights, and provides
after his death, for their protection. But
the will of such a man, who died recently,
arranges for just that kind of a perma-
nent sanctuary. And the ample provision
on a large scale is suggestive.

George T. Slade, late Vice—president of
the Northern Paciﬁc Railroad, and one-
time chief adviser of the American Ex—
peditionary Force in France on prob-
lems of transportation, died in St. Paul,
Minnesota, on January 24, 1941. He left
3,000 acres to the government for a bird
sanctuary, and named three institutions
among his residuary legatees.

His will, ﬁled in surrogate court at
New York, bequeathed a tract in Kidder
county, North Dakota, to the United
States to be used as “an inviolate sanctu-
ary for migrating birds.” The gift in-
cludes whatever farm equipment and
livestock were on the place at the time
of his death.

The Morgan Dennis Poster

Another in the series of Be Kind to
Animals posters, designed by the well-
known artist, Morgan Dennis, is now
available for placing in schools, stores,
ofﬁces, etc. The 1941 subject shows an
attractive cat and a charming dog,
printed in two colors, with the motto,
“All Pets Need Special Care,” in addi-
tion to the words, “Be Kind to Animals.”
Orders may be sent to the American Hu-
mane Education Society, Boston, at these
prices, postpaid:

Single copy, 10 cts., three copies, 25
cts., eight copies, 50 cts., twenty copies,
$1, seventy copies, $3, 100 copies, $4.

Orders for large quantities, or for
copies bearing the imprint of local So-
cieties, should be sent at once to the
American Humane Association, 135
Washington Ave., Albany, N. Y.

 




 

 

 

 

Established 1875
PEABODY MASTER
J. F. HERNE c0, PRINTERS W. F. LACEY & SONS CO.

S d t B l d h °
aw us 9 a e S av1ngs Catalogs - Office Forms

Sweeping Compound . . 54 MYSTIC AVENUE
E l . Books - Publlcatlons
X03 5101‘ MEDFORD

1 47 PORTLAND STREET
E ERETT
V Telephone, MYS’ric 2880

Telephone, EVEreH 3652-3629 BOSTON

Truck Bodies

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A. A. 1(81111815 ' JOHN J. WHITE CO-
Registered by Americon Kennel Club COMPLIMENTS OF .
Dogs Trimmed, Boarded and for Hay ' Gram ' Flour
Sale - Alredale, Scottlsh, Lak-eland FOOD CENTER9 Inc. Purina ChOWS
and other breeds - Pupples and
Grown Stock 102 A STREET, SOUTH BOSTON
MRS. EMMETT WARBURTON HARVARD SQUARE Telephone, soum Boston 1680
241 NAHANTON STREET
Newton Centre, Massachusetts BROOKLINE 450 ARSENAL ST» WATERTOWN
Telephone, BlGelow 6400 Telephone, MlDdlesex 1088
LYNCH BROS. FRANK E. CARLSON
& CO COMPLIMENTS OF
CARRIAGE COMPANY '
Plumbing and Heating TREAT HARDWARE
ESSEX AND PEARL STREETS
CHELSEA 1179 TREMONT STREET CORP-
ROXBURY
. LAWRENCE
CHElseo 3049'3001 Telephone, HlGhlonds 5072
GORDON SUPPLY CO. Spices - Baking Powder
Hardware
60 ABERDEEN AVENUE 189 STATE STREET
CAMBRIDGE LAWRENCE, MASS‘ BOSTON
House of Individual Service
Standard Coat, Apron COMPLIMENTS OF A. T. HOWARD CO.
and Linen Service, Inc.
Suppliers 0,: UNITED STATES 9 KNAPP STREET
COATS, APRONS, TOWELS BOSTON
LADIES, APRONS DYESTUFF CORP.
to Restaurants, Stores and Beauty 55 B ATTERYM ARCH STREET Printers Of Office
Parlors
BOSTON Form
80 LANGDON ST., ROXBURY S
Telephone, HlGhlonds 865T

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

11 “1131417

ANGELL m 1868. AND FOR FORW‘ONEVEARS
1.

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

The American Humane Education Society
The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,

Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,

Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
———COWPER

AND MERCY To
Ev E R Y LIV I N a
CREATURE.

 

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

Entered as second-class matter, June 29,1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass” under the Act of March 3,1879
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 13,1919

Boston Ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

 

VQﬂ.74

hday, 1941

l{0.5

 

Did you ever hear of a State Legis-
lature voting to kill a humane law al-
ready on the statute books? Well, that
is what the Massachusetts Legislature,
particularly its Senate, is being asked
to do, as we go to press.

A similar bill, such as certain horse—
men are trying to secure here in Massa-
chusetts, was killed by the New York
State Legislature last month. Are we to
believe that Massachusetts is going to be
recognized throughout the entire coun-
try as taking a back step in humane
legislation?

In a former issue we called attention
to the effort being made by humane or--
ganizations of this country to have the
Post Office Department issue a stamp in
honor of the late Henry Bergh, founder
of the American Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals.

We have just received from the Third
Assistant Postmaster General a note
saying, “The application for a stamp of
this character is now on ﬁle in the De-
partment but early action on the matter
is not anticipated.”

The Bulletin of the Massachusetts
Audubon Society tells us that “No more
important advance in wild life conserva-
tion has been made in this country with-
in recent years than the passage of legis-
lation in New York State which provides
for the complete and permanent cessa-
tion of this state’s traffic in wild bird
plumage. The passage of this law in New
York State, the center of the millinery
trade, is the keynote in this new pro-
tective legislation, and what is done here
will probably be adopted in other states.”

Will the Massachusetts Legislature Annul One of
Our Humane Laws?

S this issue of Our Dumb Animals
A goes to press, the Bill known as

Senate Bill 602, which would an—
nul for ﬁve years our State law, which
makes it illegal to show at horse shows
in Massachusetts horses with set-up tails,
is deadlocked. This Bill the humane so-
cieties of the State, since its introduction
into the Legislature a few weeks ago,
have bitterly opposed because of the
brutal cruelty involved in the operation
necessary to effect what is known as the
set—up tail—that is, a tail that in the
horse—show ring stands up practically at
right angles to the horse’s body. This
process of setting up the tail involves the
cruelty of severing the heavy tendons or
muscles on each side of the tail; then
while the wounds are healing, a metal
bustle is put under the tail and the tail
is pulled up OVer the horse’s back and
kept in that position for two or more
weeks.

This Bill, proposed by a relatively few
horse-show men, was rushed through the
lower branch with but scant opposition,
but when it reached the Senate the story
was different. There a determined effort
was made by the humane forces to de-
feat it, and this was actually accomp-
lished on the Bill’s third reading by a
standing vote of eighteen to nine, fol-
lowing a spirited debate.

That should have ended it, but on the
following day a roll-call vote to table the
measure, moved by our opponents, stood
nineteen to nineteen, forcing President
Goodwin, for the ﬁrst time in his career
as head of the Senate, to break a tie. He
voted to table the Bill. When Senator
Nicholson of Wareham asked the Senate
to place the Bill on the table, he prom-
ised to call it up within a week. At this

writing, ten days later, the Bill is still
on the table, conveniently pigeon-holed
until its friends can round up the votes
to push it through. 1

Meanwhile, those who have been spon—
soring Senate Bill 602 have been ex-
tremely busy. Senators have been in-
vited to luncheon parties, horse-owners
over the State have been ﬂooded with
letters and telegrams urging them to in—
duce their Senators to oppose the hu-
mane societies’ efforts. They have also
been engaging in a systematic campaign
to raise funds to accomplish their goal.

This Bill, on its merits, should have
been defeated forthwith. What the fate
of the measure will be cannot be foretold
at this writing. Our humane societies
have raised no money to kill the Bill,
nor have they engaged in any methods
other than the most straightforward to
oppose it.

We take pleasure in printing herewith
an honor roll, composed of those Senators
who voted against tabling Senate Bill
602:

Arthur F. Blanchard, Richard S.
Bowers, David M. Brackman, P. Eugene
Casey, Louis B. Connors, Laurence Cur-
tis, Chester A. Dolan, Jr., Joseph F.
Francis, Joseph B. Harrington, Arthur
W. Hollis, George W. Krapf, Robert L.
Lee, John D. Mackay, Joseph L. Murphy,
Harris S. Richardson, Mason Sears,
Bernard L. Sullivan, Charles F. Jeff
Sullivan, Leo J. Sullivan.

Senato1s who voted in fa 01 of tabling
the Bill, and thus defeating the humane
societies’ efforts, were:

Frank D. Babcock, Arthur W. Cool-
idge, Eugene H. Giroux, Angier L. Good-

(Continued on page 92)

 

 




 

 

Dec. 1941

s: '1
I”;
w
I‘ ‘l
I: \‘f

‘ ' g
[\a-
*\V: ‘
.;:

s;

'11."

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel
JOSEPH MOONEY, Treasurer’s Assistant

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President and Ch. Fi-
nance Com., United Shoe Machinery Corporation

CHARLES E. SPENCER, JR., President, First National
Bank of Boston '
Prosecuting Officers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100
L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Ofﬁcer
HARRY L. ALLEN HOWARD WILLAND
HARVEY R. FULLER J. ROBERT SMITH
County Prosecuting Officers
Middlesex and Norfolk
Eastern Essex
Western Essex
Western Essex

HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston
FRED T. VICKERS, Wenham
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen
JOSEPH E. HASWELL, Methuen

FRED F. HALL, Springﬁeld
Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin

HARRY C. SMITH, Worcester Worcester
CHARLES E. BROWN, Attleboro, Bristol and Plymouth

HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis
Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket

T. KING HASWELL, Pittsﬁeld Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen ‘
W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Other Small Animal Shelters of M. S. P. C. A.
Boston, 170-184 Longwood Avenue
Springﬁeld, 53-57 Bliss Street
Pittsfield, 224 Cheshire Road
Attleboro, 3 Commonwealth Avenue
Hyannis, State Road, Rte. 28, Centerville
Wenham, Cherry Street

OCTOBER REPORT .OF THE OFFICERS
OF THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.,
WITH HEADQUARTERS AT BOSTON,
METHUEN, SPRINGFIELD, .PITTSFIELD,
ATTLEBORO, WENHAM, HYANNIS, WOR-
CESTER, FITCHBURG, NORTHAMPTON,
HAVERHILL, HOLYOKE, ATHOL, COVER-
ING THE ENTIRE STATE.

Miles traveled by humane officers . . 18,982
Cases investigated . . . . . . . . . . . . . 317
Animals examined . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4300
Animals placed in homes . . . . . . . . 320
Lost animals restored to owners. . 103
Number of prosecutions . . . . . . . . 3
Number of convictions . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Horses taken from work . . . . . . . 24
Horses humanely put to sleep . . . . 88
Small animals humanely put to sleep 2,191
Horse auctions attended . . . . . . . . 15
Stockyards and Abattoirs
Animals inspected . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71,368
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep ................ 21

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary. for Animals

184 Longwood Avenue. Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

E. F. SCHROEDER, D.V.M., Chief of Staﬁ
R. H. SCHNEIDER, v.M.D., Asst. Chief
G. B. SCHNELLE, v.M.D.

T. O. MUNSON, v.M.D.

C. L. BLAKELY, v.M.D.
M. S. ARLEIN, D.v.M.

L. H. SCAMMAN, D.v.M.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent
Springﬁeld Branch

Telephone 4-7355
53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.

Veterinarians
A. R. EVANS, v.M.D. H. L. SMEAD, D.V.M.

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR OCTOBER
At 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

Cases entered in Hospital .......... 855
Cases entered in Dispensary ...... 2,286
Operations ....................... 520

At Springﬁeld Branch, 53 Bliss Street

Cases entered in Hospital .......... 221
Cases entered in Dispensary ...... 810
Operations ....................... 104

At Attleboro Clinic, 3 Commonwealth Ave.

 

Cases entered .................... 98
Totals
Hospital cases since Opening, Mar.
1, 1915 ....................... 199,976
Dispensary cases ............... 505,375
Total .............. 705,351

 

For Animals and Birds"

Contributions Of money or grain
or apples or carrots sent to 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston, will
provide free Christmas dinners
for horses on street and at stables.
They will be gratefully acknowl-
edged.

The Society will also provide
food for the birds and squir-
rels during times Of emergency
through the winter.

 

 

 

Branches and Auxiliaries
MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Northampton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—MISS
EMILY HALE, Pres.; MISS MILDRED MOULTON, Treas.

Great Barrington Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—
MRS. ROBERT MAGRUDER, Pres. ; MRS. DONALD WORTH-
INGTON, Treas.

Holyoke Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—MRS. AARON
C. BACC. Pres.; MRS. ROBERT E. NEWCOMB. Treas.

Springfield Branch Auxiliary—MRS. CARLTON H.
GARINGER, Pres.; MRS. RICHARD A. BOOTH, Treas.

. Second Thursday.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary—MRS. RICHARD S.
TAYLOR, Pres.; MRS. JOHN HAMILTON CLARKE, Treas.

Boston Work Committee of Mass. S. P. C. A.—MRS.
GEORGE D. COLPAS, Chairman.

Page 231

Veterinary Column

1. Question: I have just been to a
veterinarian to have my dog treated and
he gave me some liquid medicine tO use.
I ﬁnd it difﬁcult to make the dog take it,
as he refuses food that contains the
medicine, and Offers considerable resis-
tance when I try tO force it in his
mouth. How can I make him take the
medicine?

Answer: Medicine may be given dogs
from a teaspoon or small vial. The medi-
cine is more easily administered if the
animal is placed on 'a smooth-topped
table, away from his usual domain Of the
ﬂoor. More resistance is Offered if the
animal’s ‘mouth is forced Open. There-
fore, the best method is tO pull out the
dog’s cheek at the corner Of the mouth
and pour the medicine in the little pocket
found between the teeth and cheek.

2. Question: I have a puppy about
ﬁve months Of age. His teeth seem to be
getting loose and he has lost one. Is this
natural, or is there something wrong?

Answer: Dogs have deciduous, or
puppy, teeth that fall out at about ﬁve
months Of age. Permanent teeth soon
replace those that fall out.

3. Question: Are canned dog foods
adequate tO maintain normal health in
dogs?

Answer: Canned dog foods are con-
venient to use when a regular mixed diet
cannot be prepared and fed. However,
canned dog foods should not comprise
the entire diet for a normal dog. They
may be used as a ﬁller, being supple-
mented by milk, meat and vegetables.
There are some conditions, as in the case
Of puppies, where other substances must
also be supplied. Your veterinarian can
best advise you in such cases.

There is a committee composed Of
members Of the American Animal Hos-
pital Association and the American
Veterinary Medical Association that are
at present testing the various canned
foods. There are several brands that
have been tested and approved by this
committee, and. your veterinarian can
supply you with the approved names.

NOTE: In the answer tO question num-
ber two in the November issue Of this
column, there was one misleading bit Of
information. By mistake, “tincture Of
iodine” was mentioned as an antiseptic to
be used on Open wounds in animals. This
substance should be avoided in the case
Of cats. Cats have a very sensitive Skin
and in some cases iodine will cause severe
burns. Also in the case of cats, prepara-
tions containing carbolic acid or phenol
should be avoided. Preparations contain-
ing these materials —— lysol, creolin,
cresol, etc.—-are highly poisonous to cats.

L. H. S., Veterinary Dept.,
Angel] Animal Hospital

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 196

Wild Canada Geese

Lewis Keyes

All season by far Northern waters they
lay,

While the bright days of summer go by;

But the Southland is calling, and now
they’re away

'On their cloud-bordered road through the
sky.

Behind their wild leader on fast beating
wings,

They are leaving the winter and snow,-

O'er mountain and river their flying song
rings,

As hurrying southward they go.

With dews of dark midnight their pinions
are wet,

But warm Southern playgrounds to find;

They're hurtling onward without a regret

For the land they are leaving behind.

What matter to them if the winter winds
blow,

When at last their long journey is done;

They’re away from the ice and the cold and
the snow,

For a long holiday in the sun.

But Canada’s lakes call again in the spring,

Haunts far from the cities of men;

Then some sunny morning, they’re all on
the wing,

And bound for the Northland again.

The bald eagle is protected by federal
law in the United States and possessions.
The young are three years old when they
attain adult plumage. This bird’s many
attributes, including size, strength, keen
vision, and swift, powerful ﬂight, led to
its selection as the national emblem.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Oct. 191,1

The World’s Noisiest Island

EWEN K. PATTERSON

FF the southern coast of Australia

is Babel Island, a tiny speck, which,
although uninhabited by man, is re-
garded as the world’s noisiest island dur-
ing the months from September to April,
So noisy is it during this period that
no human being could possibly stay there
for any length of time.

It was because of the noise that the
island was named Babel in 1770 by its
discoverer, Captain Flinders. The reason
for the noise is that it comes from the
largest mutton-bird rookery known on
the globe. Every September countless
millions of these great ocean wanderers
arrive at Babel to breed, traveling thou-
sands of miles across the Paciﬁc from
the Arctic regions, where they spend
from April to September each year,
being known there as “seal-birds.”

On their great migratory flight they
travel in a dense, black cloud formation,
their wings creating a noise that baf—
fles description. Some uncanny instinct
guides them to Babel, which has been
their favorite nesting-place for centu-
ries. They never land until dusk, when
they immediately scuttle into burrows
that have been used by their kind for
ages. The entire island is honeycombed
with burrows, 18 inches or so deep, and
after mating each pair occupies a bur-
row. The female lays only one egg; she
sits on the nest for 24 hours after lay-
ing, then the male takes charge for 14
days, during which the female feeds
him; afterwards they sit on alternate
days. When the nestling appears after
six weeks the parents take turns ﬂying

 

to sea to secure food for the offspring.

Dawn each morning marks the gath-
ering of the birds preparatory to the
day’s ﬁshing. The black-garbed creatures
come sc ‘ambling from their murky dun-
geons and race to assembly grounds—
open spaces on the beaches upon which
they can conveniently converge. In the
pale light this strange rally of the feath-
ered hordes creates an eerie sensation
among humans fortunate enough to be
spectators.

When the birds are all ready, the ﬁrst
batch, as if at a given signal, sails out to
sea; another and another follow, wave
after wave, and by sunrise the black bat-
talions are away out over the sea, soar-
ing and dipping above the sparkling
waters. If by chance a parent bird is
delayed in leaving at dawn with the
others, it will stay in its burrow all day,
rather than venture out alone in the
bright daylight.

It is when the birds return at night
and are greeted by their mates and
young that the island becomes noisy.
Noisy! It is impossible to imagine the
noise the birds make. They reproduce
every conceivable sound—the crooning
of doves, the clucking of hens, the petu-
lant crying of children, the mewing of
cats, the bleating of sheep—all blending
into one continuous chorus, creating a
pandemonium of cries so weird and un-
canny that anyone landing on the island
after dark and unaware of the presence
of the birds would most assuredly think
he had come upon an island of lost souls.
The uproar continues all night, usually
slackening a little after midnight, but
breaking out again worse than ever just
before dawn.

Birds in Central Park

The killdeer is one of the birds which
nests in New York City and makes its
winter home in Panama, where Mrs.
Gladys Gordon Fry, the “Bird Lady,”
found it in February. In New York’s
Central Park, Mrs. Fry has led city
dwellers on bird walks for the past dec-
ade. She ﬁnds the Park a haven for
migratory birds and in her “bird identi-
ﬁcation” classes, in which residents of
Long Island, Westchester and New Jer-
sey participate annually, she uses the
Park as her laboratory. No less than 147
migrant species have been identiﬁed by
walkers in the bird sanctuary in the
heart of the Park. There Mrs. Fry iden-
tiﬁed 190 species last spring on bird
walks beginning at dawn, in which busi-
ness men, concert singers, physicians,

lawyers, and a tailor participated each

week—end.




 

 

 

Page 20

I Declare My Love
Judy Van der

I love horses, goats and sheep,
And cows with dark eyes,

The earth has spoken to them
And made them wise.

Veer

They graze on green hills in the spring,
Hills theirs more than ours—

They know the goodness of grass,
They walk among flowers.

I love deer beautiful as dreams
Seen in the dawn,

In halt—light I saw a doe

With a young town.

They were soft as dusk coloring
Against the hill,
Gentle as down or twilight,

With the world still.

l love hawks and eagles
Adrift in the sky,

And the clear wild challenge
01‘ a coyote’s cry.

And all small things

That walk in the night,
Quiet and turtive,

With eyes shining bright . . .

A Bit of Stevenson

“Gentleness and cheerfulness, these
come before all morality; they are the
perfect duties. And it is the trouble with
moral men that they have neither one
nor other. If your morals make you.
dreary, depend upon it, they are wrong.
I do not say ‘give them up,’ for they may
be all you have; but conceal them like a
vice, lest they should spoil the lives of
better and simpler people.”

New Style Humane Calendar
For 1941

“ The picture is most appropriate and the arrange-
ment individual and very attractive,” writes a prom—
inent humane society executive of the 1941 HUMANE
CALENDAR.

It is of an entirely new design, with col—
ored picture of a boy and a dog, “Heroic
Dreams of Youth,” 8 x 10 inches, and a pad,
21/2 by 41/; inches, all mounted on a light
green cardboard, 11 x 16 inches, mailed flat.

It is the most attractive Calendar we have

ever put out, and is a product of the nation—
ally known Osborne Company.
One Society ordered 100 copies and found they went

so fast that a second order for a like number was
placed.

Price, 15 cents each; six for 80 cents; 12
for $1.50, postpaid.
Address, Secretary
AMERICAN HUMANE
EDUCATION SOCIETY
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

IN THE EDITOR’S LIBRARY

 

THE KEEPER OF THE STARS, Isadore
Elizabeth Flanders.

In this small but attractive volume the
author brings together three stories, two of
which have a decidedly Christmas ﬂavor.
The title story tells of the romantic search
of a shepherd for six persons who say they
miss the stars which the Keeper has re-
frained from twirling in their places be-
cause so few notice them. “A Christmas
Story” charmingly introduces Mother Goose,
Old Mother Hubbard, Little Boy Blue, and
many other nursery characters to whom
Santa Claus ﬁnally appears and before
whom he gives his reindeer to Mary, Mary,
Quite Contrary, while he ﬂies away in a
gigantic red airship. “Santa’s Rush Order”
is an amusing account of how Santa ordered
perfect Christmas snow from a ﬁctitious
Company, delicacies from the master—baker,
appetizers from the master-butcher, nuts
and candies from the master-grocer, etc.,
with Hans and Gretel, Little Red Riding
Hood and Cinderella all done in tempting
sweets. The book is well called an admir~
able stepping-stone to the World of Fancy.

32 pp. $1. Christopher Publishing House,
Boston.

 

Humane Films
For Rent or Sale

For these “proven” subjects in
silent pictures—
THE BELL OF ATRI

illustrating Longfellow’s poem,
and

ON BEHALF OF ANIMALS

showing the practical work of the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A. and the
Angel] Animal Hospital,

Address
Secretary, 180 Longwood Ave.

Boston

 

 

 

Jan. 1941

Liberal Annuity Rates

Both of our Societies offer you semi-
annually during your lifetime a ﬁxed income
on the sum given. Depending upon your age
at the time of the gift, the rate varies from
4%% to 9% per annum, beginning at age 45.

ADVANTAGES

It is no experiment,
There is no anxiety,
No fluctuations in rate of income,
No commissions,
No legal expenses,
No inheritance taxes,
Your gift will benefit
humane objects of
Societies,
No waste of your estate
by a will contest.

the
the

it it it * *

Persons of comparatively small means
may, by this arrangement, obtain a better
income for life than could be had with equal
safety by the usual methods of investment,
while avoiding the risks and waste of a will
contest and ultimately promoting the cause
of unfortunate animals.

The management of our invested funds is
a guarantee of the security of these Life
Annuities. ‘

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A., or the
American Humane Education Society, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston, will be glad to
furnish further details.

 

 

Our Dumb Animals

Published on the first Tuesday of each month by
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
(‘ruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood,
Massachusetts. Boston Office: 180 Longwood Av-
enue. Address all communications to Boston.

TERMS

One dollar per year. Postage free to any part of

the world.

All dollar subscriptions sent direct. to the ofﬁce en-
title the sender to membership in either of our two
Societies.

RATES OF MEMBERSHIP IN
THE ARTERICAN HURIANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
OR THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.
Active Life $100 00
Associate Life 50 00
Sustaining Life 20 00 Annual
Children’s $0.75
Checks and other payments may be sent to ALBERT
A. POLLARD, Treasurer, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston.
Manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor, 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston.

$10 00
5 00
1 00

Active Annual
Associate Annual

 

 

TO OUR FRIENDS

In making your will, kindly bear in mind that the corporate title of
our Society is “The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals”; that it is the second incorporated (March, 1868)
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in the country, and
that it has no connection with any other similar Society.

Any bequest especially intended for the beneﬁt of the Angell
Memorial Animal Hospital, should, nevertheless, be made to the Massa-
chusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals “for the use
of the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital,” as the Hospital is not incor-
porated but is the property of that Society and is conducted by it.

FORM OF BEQUEST

I giVe to The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals (or to The American Humane Education Society), the sum
of .......... dollars, (or, if other property, describe the property).

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 136
The Blind Boy and the Bees

ALICE DE BEUGHEM

My Dog

W i | I a H o e y

HAT a pity to love bees and gar-

dens and to be blind! But what a

triumph to overcome this fearful handi-

cap and give to the world exact facts re-

garding bees, facts which up to that time
were entirely unknown!

This is what Francois Huber did, a
Swiss naturalist. He became blind when
a boy of seventeen. Francois belonged to
a family that had made its mark in the
literary and scientiﬁc world. His great-
aunt Marie Huber was known as a vol-
uminous writer on religious subjects. His
father, Jean Huber was a prominent
member of a group of people who sur-
rounded the great Voltaire, and wrote a
valuable series of observations on the
ﬂights of birds. He had a rare skill by
which he could reproduce the likeness
of Voltaire or others by clipping paper.

From an early age Francois displayed
a great love of study. He was only ﬁf—
teen when over-study caused him to suf-
fer from an affection of the eyes, which
gradually resulted in total blindness
when he was seventeen.

Happily, however, for him, he had won
the love and devotion of Mademoiselle
Marie Lullin. Marie waited until she
was legally of age, then she married him,
and devoted her life to care for him until
her death. It was only when he lost her,
Francois said, that he really felt blind.

For many years too, he was assisted
in his work by Francois Burnens, a ser—
vant, whom Huber inspired with his own
love of nature.

With the use of a glass hive, so skil-
fully did the blind man carry on his ex-
periments, and so carefully did his Wife
and his servant record their
observations, that his bo ok
“New Observations on Bees,”
published in 1792, laid the
foundation of all our present
scientiﬁc knowledge about bees.

Until the publication of his
book there were many fables
about bees. People had always
been interested in them, but
knew nothing about their ori—
gin or life work. One group
thought that bees came from
the body of a dead ox that had
been buried in manure. Others
thought that they came from
the decayed belly of a dead
lion. O t h e r s thought these
beautiful winged c r e a t u r e s
sprang full—grown from the
blossoms of ﬂowers.

It was this blind student of
Mother Nature who revealed
to us the mysterious secrets of
the hive. Among his important
discoveries are aerial impreg-

He asks so little and he gives so much—
A scrap of food—a bed—a kindly touch,
And in return he gives, unstintingly,
A wealth of friendship, and a loyalty
Beyond my human power to comprehend,
On which success, or ill, does not depend.
For pettiness—he has no time for such—
He asks so little and he gives so much.

Seeing-Eye Dog Receives
Honorary Degree

FRANK E. CASCELLA

HAT with so many blind young

men and women graduating from
high schools and colleges, year after
year, it would hardly be news to point
out that Joseph Melillo, 22-year—old
Newark University student, was recently
graduated with high honors in the Col-
lege of Arts and Sciences. But, when
the Seeing-Eye dog graduates along with
the master, that, deﬁnitely, is news.

Such a dog is “Bonzo,” pictured here
with her blind young master, the ﬁrst
and only dog ever to receive an honorary
degree from this university. The degree
was conferred “for faithful services ren-
dered,” in recognition of the part she
played in her master’s brilliant scho-
lastic career.

Inseparable and happy together since
a day four years ago when young Melillo
acquired the dog from the Seeing-Eye
at Morristown, New Jersey, Bonzo has
been showing signs of being depressed
since graduating. But how can a dog live
a normal dog’s life with a university
honorary degree tied to her collar?

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

July, 191,1

nation of the queen, killing of the males
by the workers, rivalry of the queens,
the use of their antennae, origin of pro-
polis and the ventilation of the hives by
the bees in fanning with their wings
which supplies fresh oxygen to the in-
terior of their homes.

Francois died at the age of eighty—one
in 1831.

Alaskan Ptarmigan
ELLA WILSON HILL

F you have never lived in Alaska, it

will be hard for you to imagine the
great number of wild creatures in the
big territory. The willow ptarmigan, a
beautiful dove-like bird, is often seen in
immense ﬂocks in almost any part of
Alaska. They are always dressed in the
color of Mother Earth, whether it is
white or brown or mixed colors. Like
the snowshoe rabbit they show up in
great quantities some years, and other
years only a few ﬂocks will be seen.

In the years of great abundance ﬂocks
of from 10,000 to 20,000 of these birds
are often seen. But once, a Government
ofﬁcial, who was very fond of birds and
animals, saw probably the largest ﬂock
of ptarmigan that has ever been reported.
It was in December, 1913, and not much
snow lay on the ground, when this man
drove his dog-team about ﬁfty miles
away from the much-used Yukon River
trail. He was headed south—east between
the Iditarod and Innoko rivers when he
saw a solid carpet of hundreds of acres
of these beautiful birds in their white
winter plumage scratching away the
light snow and industriously eating the
little berries and cured grasses.

The dogs had seen so many ptarmigan
during the day that they paid little atten-
tion to these hundreds of thousands. The
birds hopped off the trail to let the team
pass, but were not frightened at all by
the dogs.

In order to estimate the number, the
man counted the birds in one forty-foot
square, and then drove along beside them
estimating the number of squares. They
covered nine hundred square acres which
gave an estimated number of birds of
over 400,000. In that same year as many
as ﬁfty ptarmigan at a time would ﬂy
into and light in one of the small towns,
a very unusual performance.

Nature gives us some strange puzzles.
The reason why so many ptarmigan ap—
pear one year and so few the following
year is a mystery that no one has been
fully able to solve. It still remains one
of Nature’s strange secrets.

Nut-eating animals such as squirrels
do not open rotten nuts. They have an
unexplained instinct that enables them
to segregate good and bad nuts.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Page 131;

OUR DUAIB ANIMALS

Horses on American Stamps
ALETHA M. BONNER

ORE than twenty countries have
M honored the horse by giving this

faithful four-footed friend a post-
age stamp for a stable. While probably
more than ﬁfty per cent of all American
philatelic animals are horses.

Anniversary stamps in the United
States are legion, since the Post Office
Department has given commemorative
attention to outstanding events in na—
tional life, and it is in many of these
commemorative series that the horse
appears.

All postal adhesives are made at the
Bureau of Engraving and Printing in
Washington, and here are turned out
many miniature masterpieces of artistic
design and skillful engraving.

One particularly ﬁne example of
stampcraft art, featuring horses in ac-
tion, is the “Pony Express”——a 3—cent
henna-brown stamp, issued on the 80th
anniversary of the inauguration of the
Pony Express Service.

This commemorative cover depicts “a
mounted pony—express rider leaving a

relay station :Withs- a: consignment»: of
mail.” The stamp was ﬁrst placed on sale ‘
April 3, 1940, attSt.-'-aJoseph;- Missouri,“

and Sacramento, California—these cities
marking the two terminals of the early
Pony-Express postal route.

Another example, the 3-cent deep-
purple “Constitution Stamp” (issued in
1938 to commemorate the 150th anniver-
sary of the ratiﬁcation of the famous
document by the separate states), which
has for its central design, a colonial-type
court-house, with two horsemen in the
foreground. One is in the act of mount-
ing, and the other is galloping away on
his sturdy steed, to carry the important
news.

Covered-wagon days and horse-and-
buggy days are two periods that have
been given philatelic treatment, and the
horse in harness is a familiar design on
many past and present stamps. Prior
to the advent of the automobile, the
rural-mail carrier and his equipage ap-
peared daily on the country roads of
America, and December 12, 1912, a
4-cent stamp was issued to honor the
carrier and his equine companion, both
sharing alike in rural free delivery fame.

Gerald Cassidy’s painting, “Coronado
and His Captains,” has been reproduced
on the 3-cent purple Coronado cover of
1940 release; but the stamp might well
be called “Coronado and His Horse,” for
the central motif, which is arranged in
the form of a half-circle, pictures the
intrepid Spanish explorer of the Ameri-
can Southwest (1540-42) seated upon a
large white horse surrounded by other
mounted members of the expedition.

Coronado’s interest in animals is
brought out in his quaintly worded re-
port to the Mexican Viceroy. In describ-
ing the Southwest region he wrote: “The
countrey is all plaines . . . there is most
excellent grasse . . . for our horses as
well to feed them in pastures, as to mowe

and make hay . . . Here are many sorts
of beasts as Beares, Tigers, Llons,
Porkespicks.” His narrative is of value

since it furnishes one of the early au-
thentic accounts of the native buffalo,
incidentally, another philatelic animal,
as “The Buffalo Stamp,” a 30—cent olive-
brown, was issued March 20, 1923.

Because of the important part that
horses have played on the stage of na-
tional history, rightly should they share
honors with pioneers. and patriots, and
be pictured on stamps commemorating
America’s cavalcade of progress.

Essential Ingredients

F. J. WORRALL

-WITH‘ the ,rapidly increasing inﬂux

of refugees,._.there is more than

reveran. imperativeneed foruhumanevedu-g

cation in every possible circle, and par-
ticularly in our schools, for the children
taught today are the teachers of to—
morrow.

Many of them, impressed by the hor-
rors of war, need the quiet and sustain-
ing inﬂuence of humane and moral prin—
ciples. They must be made to feel that
spiritual forces still rule the Universe
and always will in spite of what mere
man may try to do. Sooner or later
destructive agents must perish as they
always have in the past.

Beneath the chaotic surface the roots
of civilization still thrive, awaiting only
the cultivation of stability—the ingredi—
ent of character that ﬁrst brought it into
being, reinforced by ”Christianity.

Upon us then rests a grave responsi-
bility—far greater than that exacted for
material aid and of which the American
people have given wholeheartedly and un-
reservedly. It has been proved many
times that kindly impulse has been stir-

red quickly into action with magniﬁcent
results.

It behooves each one of us then to play
a part, no matter how small, in the re-
turn and preservation of the funda-
mental principles on which the American
way of life is founded and which gives
stability to character, security to life,
and the preservation of happiness.

There can be no permanency to any of
these, however, until the kind Hand of
Mercy and Justice is extended to every
living creature.

July, 1941

“Ossie”

ALFRED O. PHILIPP

THIS is not the publicity photo of a
trained animal act. It’s simply the
latest picture of “Ossie,” a happy young
ocelot who has apparently forgotten that
he’s supposed to be a member of the
“ferocious” feline tribe, and is now the
gentle household pet of Mr. Adrian
Hines, of San Antonio, Texas.

A party of Mexicans had killed Ossie’s
mother in a canyon near the Rio Grande.

 

 

“OSSIE,” UNIQUE PET OF ADRIAN
HINES, SAN ANTONIO, TEXAS

The frightened orphan had taken refuge
beneath a stony ledge, and its swarthy
tormentors were attempting to dislodge
it with forked sticks when Adrian came
upon them. Young Mr. Hines, who had
been hunting fossils, persuaded the
Mexicans to desist while he crawled in
after the youngster. The little ocelot,
now snarling and spitting, was obvi-
ously determined to sell his life dearly.
But its capture was effected without in-
jury—except to its feelings—when
Adrian managed to throw his coat over
the cub and secure it ﬁrmly in the gar-
ment. A few coins appeased the Mexi-
cans, and Adrian hastened home with his
new acquisition.

Mr. Hines is a hunter who never kills.
His “trophies” are live “wild animal”:
pets, and usually they come to him ’
through accidental circumstances. About
a Year ago a sparrow hawk ﬂew against
a telephone wire near San Antonio, and
fell to the ground severly injured. It was
carried to the Hines home by neighbor-
hood boys who knew of his love for ani-
mals. Adrian nursed it back to health,
and as it perches jauntily on his ﬁnger
today its demeanor resembles that of a
“love bird” rather than that of a preda-
tory hawk.

 

 

 




 

Dec. 1941

Bethlehem

Minnie Leona Upton

Without, the tar and chill star-shine,

Within, the warm breath of the kine,

Sweet with stored yield ot'vale and hill

Round Bethlehem, now winter-still;

Toward Thee they turned their soft, kind
eyes,

Watching, with gentle, mute surprise,

The tender, tiny thing that lay

In sate content upon their hay.

Oh, Savior, who didst leave Thy throne

Of glory tor the sad and lone,

Give us to save from all despite

Such voiceless ones as watched that night;
Give hearts to fend for all the weak
Detenseless ones that cannot speak,

They that on man’s compassion wait,

Oh Thou, the All-Compassionate!

After the War

IN his deeply interesting, latest book
entitled “Strictly Personal,” W. Somer-
set Maugham, speaking of the magniﬁ-
cent courage with which the English la-
boring classes have stood up backing this
war, giving seven days’ service with un-
complaining courage, he quotes two rep-
resentative people as to the future.

A prominent worker at the Woolwich
Arsenal, a representative of the large
laboring class, said, “But when it is over
we shall want our liberties back, and if
we don’t get them there will be trouble.”

Then he quotes Alexander, the ﬁrst
Lord of the Admiralty, to whom he put
the question, “What sort of an England
do you foresee when the war is ﬁn-
ished?” Alexander put his reply in a
single phrase: “A country where there
is work for all, and no very rich people
and no very poor people.”

Maugham also says, “I have heard the
owners of great houses acknowledge that
the time for them was past —— they ac-
cepted the change they foresaw in their
style of living with resignation and even
with cheerfulness.”

Strong for Humane Education

Due to the interest of Rev. F. Rivers
Barnwell, ﬁeld worker of the American
Humane Education Society, the Fort
Worth Mind, leading colored newspaper
in the city, is giving a column weekly to
the subject of Humane Education. A re—
cent issue contained the text of a letter
from B. C. Shulkey, assistant superin-
tendent in charge of elementary schools,
warmly endorsing humane education and
Our Dumb Animals. Another letter was
published, from Rabbi Samuel D. Soskin
of Temple Beth-El, wholeheartedly en-
dorsing the program of the American
Humane Education Society.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

MaSs. S. P. C. A. Acts as Host

Record-Breaking. Attendance at Annual
Meetings of Federations

NEARLY one hundred delegates, rep-
resenting every New England state,
attended the annual meetings of the New
England Federation of Humane Soci—
eties and of the Massachusetts Federa-
tion, held November 6 in the lecture hall
of the Massachusetts S. P. C. A. in its
Hospital building on Longwood Avenue,
Boston.

Robert F. Sellar, Boston, president of
the New England Federation, opened the
morning session with a brief address,
followed by reports from various ofﬁcers
and a brief business meeting of the
Massachusetts Federation, in charge of
its president, Herbert W. Cooper, Wor-
cester. President Francis H. Rowley of
the entertaining Society was called upon
for an address of welcome, after which
Alfred W. Lombard, assistant director
of the Massachusetts Department of
Agriculture, discussed “Pulling Contests
at Fairs,” and answered questions asked
by delegates. Carlton E. Buttrick, direc—
tor of humane education, Connecticut
Humane Society, spoke on “The Adult in
Humane Education.”

At 1 o’clock the visitors sat down to a
substantial luncheon provided by the
Massachusetts S. P. C. A. and served in
the mailing room on the second ﬂoor of
the building.

The afternoon session was given over
largely to veterinary t0pics, Dr. E. F.
Schroeder, chief veterinarian of the An-
gell Animal Hospital, discussing “Dis—
temper in Dogs,” and Dr. C. L. Blakely,
also of the Angell staff, speaking on
“Some Problems in Animal Surgery.”
Interesting discussions followed each ad-
dress. John C. Macfarlane of the Ameri-
can S. P. C. A., New York City, told of
his recent missionary work in organiz-
ing Humane Societies in Vermont, and
gave a very brief account of the Ameri—
can Red Star, operated by the American
Humane Association for the beneﬁt of
animals in emergencies.

At the close of the afternoon session
and at intervals during the day, visitors
were escorted through the Angell Animal
Hospital, in which they showed great
interest.

Mr. Sellar was re-elected president of
the New England Federation: J. Seth
Jones, Hartford, Conn., ﬁrst vice—presi—
dent; Wallace Nelson, Portsmouth, N.
H., second vice-president; Mrs. Howard
Woodward, Taunton, secretary; Mrs.
John R. Rathom, Providence, R. I.,
treasurer; and Lyman Cousins, J r., Ban-
gor, Me., Dr. Grace Burnett, Brattleboro,
Vt., and George J. Riley, Providence,
R. I., directors.

Herbert W. Cooper, Worcester, was
re-elected president of the Massachusetts
Federation; James Gilmore, Lowell,

Page 233

ﬁrst vice-president; Mrs. Charles H.
Millett, Melrose, second vice-president;
Mrs. Howard Woodward, secretary;
Miss Harriet Bird, Stow, treasurer; and
Miss Helen Leighton, Boston, and Victor
A. Friend, Melrose, directors.

Exhibit at Bellingham

We have received an interesting pho-
tograph from the Whatcom County
Humane Society of Bellingham, Wash-
ington, showing the ﬁne exhibit of
posters, mottoes, and humane literature
which was held in the High School dur-
ing the convention of the Washington
Education Association, October 13 and
14 last. The posters were made in the
local schools and the literature was sup-
plied by the American Humane Educa-
tion Society. An entire section of the
Association program was devoted to hu-
mane education, at which President
Nelson Durham of the State Humane
Society of Washington was the chief
speaker. Mr. Ross Alexander, president,
and Mrs. Mary Bourque, secretary, of
the Whatcom County Society are to be
congratulated upon this unusual demon-
stration at a teachers’ institute.

Essays for Scottish S. P. C. A.

The Scottish S. P. C. A. announces
that the subject of the prize essay 'com-
petition for 1942, open to school children,
is: “What Horses Do for Us Daily.”

The announcement is being issued to
over 2,300 schools. The competition has,
for over sixty years, formed a prominent
feature of the Society’s activities, and in
1941 nearly 18,300 essays were written
in 387 schools, and 536 book prizes were
awarded. While these ﬁgures are a little
less than usual, interest in the competi-
tion has undoubtedly been maintained
despite war-time conditions and the dif-
ﬁculties of evacuation, etc.

In Schools of Tacoma

Mrs. Florida L. Byrne is representing
the American Humane Education So-
ciety in Tacoma, Washington. She has
distributed literature and interviewed
the principals of several schools. She also
discussed humane work with ofﬁcials of
the State Parent—Teacher Association
and supplied them with appropriate
literature. She sent literature to six
local P. T. A. presidents. She found the
principal and pupils of University Place
school much interested in humane edu—
cation. Mrs. Byrne also contacted the
teachers of several play schools and of
one of the Catholic schools, all of whom
showed great interest in the work. She
plans an intensive campaign throughout
all the schools of the city, and seems to
be meeting with cordial co-operation on
all sides.

 

 

 

 

1,. >1

"7&3'», 5;$,:._£._:.A<:}Tr\.a= ,t.’ “71‘: "if“ r"‘-»: w 1;. 1‘: ._.“ . g g 1,; ,1 V... J"-
. ."-"" 3‘7 F. «12*. 2%: 3‘” ‘ <-.."-t~‘.-J;‘ej 1:" «J— ”1 5-; " “=1 < A“ .
“id-4“ .Z::‘—1;...-713A.;_.4\<_.a~4!‘4.“.4_~4_‘_.4115A _ 1: 1 ‘ 7.: .t: 1‘. _:<::. 1-; <- 1 /

:91 if???“ “‘ ‘

gag: r:- x; .
w . e

g. .

;‘1 11.;

 




 

 

 

 

 

Page 216

Glhr Thanh nf iJIHPrry nr

iluninr ’ﬁumam’ ﬁreman
DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary
PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living crea-
tures and try to protect them from
cruel usage.

The American Humane Education So-
ciety will send to every person who forms
a Band of Mercy of thirty members, and
sends the name chosen for the Band and the
name and post-ofﬁce address of the presi—
dent who has been duly elected, special
Band of Mercy literature and a gilt badge
for the president. Write to 180 Longwood
Avenue, Boston, for prices of literature
and Band of Mercy supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

One hundred and forty-seven new
Bands of Mercy were reported during

September. These were distributed as
follows :—

Pennsylvania ................... 50
Virginia ....................... 45
Florida ........................ 37
Maine ......................... 9
Ohio .......................... 2
Georgia ........................ 1
Iowa .......................... 1
New Mexico .................... 1
Tennessee ...................... 1

Total number Bands of Mercy organ-
ized by Parent American Society,
259,625.

 

“BABE,” PRIZE-VVINNIN G PHOTO
By Ruth Wel-ch

 

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Carlyle and the Donkey

VINCENT EDWARDS

HEN Thomas Carlyle was a strug—

gling, young schoolmaster in Scot—
land, he once gave his pupils a lesson
that they remembered for the rest of
their lives.

One morning, before the time set for
school to open, a donkey that had broken
from its tether, strayed into the play-
ground. One of the boys, Bill Hood by
name, who dearly loved a joke, succeeded
in mounting the animal, and then tried
to force it to enter the school itself.

Finally, after much effort, he man—
aged to get the donkey across the thresh-
old. School hadn’t been called, but as
most of the pupils were already assem-
bled, great excitement broke loose. Amid
shouts and laughter, bags of books were
fastened around the neck and even to
the tail of the poor beast.

Round and round the school the don-
key trotted with Bill Hood on his back.
The boys and girls were about beside
themselves with glee. They had forgot-
ten that stern “Dominie” Carlyle was
due to appear at any moment. In his
younger as well as in his later days
Carlyle’s dour manner did not invite
levity. Long afterwards pupils remem-
bered that his mere scowl was enough
to quiet the entire school.

But now, of a sudden, he was there!
It was too late for Bill to remove the
donkey. A terrible hush fell over the
crowd of youngsters. They expected, of
course, that Mr. Carlyle would explode
with anger. But, instead of that, he did
something unheard of. He burst into a
roar of laughter. If anything, this
created more consternation than if he
had let go with brimstone words and
ferule.

While all the school held its breath,
that strange mirth rolled and reverber-
ated through the room. Anybody who
heard Carlyle give one of his rare laughs
never forgot it. It began with sort of a
queer chuckling that exploded into loud
and deep guffaws, shaking his whole
body and revealing all his teeth like the
keys of a piano. It was awful for his
pupils to listen to, for as a rule they
never knew what “the master” was
laughing at.

In the entire schoolroom the only crea-
ture that was not in a state of “nerves”
was the donkey. As that strange laugh-
ter was renewed again and again, the
animal turned and took a pace or two
toward Carlyle as if to salute him. The
teacher reached out and tapped the don-
key’s head just as he was accustomed to
do to those of his pupils.

“This,” exclaimed Carlyle, “is the wis-
est and best scholar your town has ever
sent me. He is even ﬁt to be your
teacher.”

N 02). 191,1

The donkey stood patiently, and “the
master” went on, putting his hand di-
rectly on the beast’s forehead.

“There’s something here far more
than in the heads of his brothers and
sisters that I see sitting in front of me.
Their heads have been patted and kissed
by fond papas and mammas. But this
noble headpiece of our friend has only
been dealt the most cruel blows!”

If those Scotch boys and girls weren’t
more considerate of all beasts of burden
after that, it wasn’t the fault of Thomas
Carlyle. He had made the most of an
occasion to teach the spirit of humanity.

Man’s Best Friend

DAVID LORD

DWIN SMITH of Waynesboro, Mis-

sissippi, will long remember the
courage and intelligence displayed by his
two dogs on a certain day in August,
1941.

While he was hard at work in a near-
by ﬁeld, a huge rattlesnake decided to
cross the yard at home where his baby
son was playing under a tree. As the
snake approached the baby, it began to
sound its sinister warning, but the
child, engrossed in its pastimes, took no
heed.

But the dread tocsin reached other
ears—those of the Smith dogs, who came
on the run. Their barks attracted an
elder sister, and sent her off in a mad
dash to warn the unsuspecting father.
The dogs closed in on the snake, and,
just as it was about to strike the baby,
engaged it in combat, keeping up the
struggle until Smith arrived with a gun
and put an end to the conﬂict.

The little charge, who had been
guarded with such superhuman courage
and devotion, was carried safely into the
house, but his two faithful defenders
survived the deadly bites of the rattle-
snake for a few hours only.

Of them it truly can be said that no
mortal thing had greater love than they,
for tlwy gave up their lives for their
charge.

Here, in one brief episode from real
life, we ﬁnd the whole essence of the
man-dog relationship—a covenant disre-
garded by many human beings, but
never by the dog.

Horses in U. S. Army

Before the outbreak of the European
war, says the Boston Globe, there were
only about 25,000 horses and mules in
the cavalry of the United States, but
now the ﬁgures have doubled and by the
end of the year it is anticipated that the
count will be 77,295 horses and mules——
about one-quarter of them mules. There
are some 600 horses at Fort Devens
at times.

 




 

 

Page 52
Ambulance calls ................ 10,662
Animals inspected at stockyards . . . . 684,497
Cattle, swine, sheep, humanely put
to sleep ..................... 531
Service rendered to horses at sum-
mer watering stations .......... 3,529
Ambulance mileage—Boston ...... 26,685
Kept under constant inspection: -
Slaughter-houses .............. 61
Poultry slaughter-houses ....... 92
“Pet shops and chain stores ...... 81

ANIMALS TREATED IN BOSTON
HOSPITAL DURING 1940

Hospital cases .................. 9,353

Dispensary (including a n im a l 5
brought from Attleboro Clinic) 24,079

Operations .................... 4,535

ANIMALS TREATED IN SPRINGFIELD
HOSPITAL DURING 1940

Hospital cases ................. 2,187

Dispensary .................... 7,165

Operations .................... 1,689
SUMMARY

Total cases treated in Boston 32,464

Total cases treated in Springﬁeld . . 9,352

Total cases treated in Attleboro . . . . 968
42,784
Cases in Hospital since opening
March 1, 1915 ............... 189,976
Cases in Dispensary since March
I, 1915 ..................... 479,011
668,987

The Society’s Shelters

Among the most notable features of
the work of the Society during recent
years has been the establishing of its
Small Animal Shelters. In different sec-
tions of the State permanent residences
for our various ofﬁcers scattered through
the Commonwealth have either been pur—
chased or rented, and buildings erected
to which lost, stray or unwanted animals
may be brought, sometimes until their
owners are found or, when no home can
be found for them or they may be suf-
fering from old age or disease, they can
be put to sleep humanely.

Our agents at these central places are
provided with cars, and answer the in—
numerable requests that come to them,
pretty generally to call for such un-
wanted animals, and also to investigate
the complaints made against any violat-
ors of the humane laws of the State.

Outside of our two head centers, Bos-
ton and Springﬁeld, where our Hospitals
are and Where constantly this work is
being done, we have Shelters at Pitts-
field, Methuen (in connection with the
Society’s Rest Farm for Horses), Attle-
boro, Hyannis, Wenham, Holyoke and
Taunton. In connection with the Shelter
at Attleboro we have a clinic, held after-
noons and evenings two days a week. In
addition We have local agents who repre-
sent us in Fitchburg, Haverhill, Green-
ﬁeld, Athol and Randolph. When the
complaint is of a more serious nature, the

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

matter is turned over to one of our regu-
lar prosecuting ofﬁcers Who is sent to
deal with the affair in the wisest and
most effective manner.

M E T H U E N
W. W. Haswell, Prosecuting Officer

1. CASES Number
Complaints received (investi-
gated) .................. 74
2. ANIMALS INSPECTED
On investigations only ....... 5,477

3. ANIMAL RELIEF WORK

Ambulance trips for lost, stray,

or unwanted small animals . . 1,728
Small animals (returned to

owners) ................ 42

(placed in homes) ........ 221

(humanely put to sleep) 3,738
Average number of horses cared

for (per month) ......... 20
Horses (taken from work) . . . 7

(humanely put to sleep) . . . 56
Mileage ................... 10,530

P I T T, S F I E L D
T. King Haswell, Prosecuting Officer

1. CASE-S Number
Complaints received (investi-
gated) ................. 171
2. ANIMALS INSPECTED
On investigations only ....... 7,035

3. ANIMAL RELIEF WORK

Ambulance trips for lost, stray

or unwanted small animals . . 2,026

Small animals (returned to
1 owners) ................ 46
(placed in homes) ........ 272
(humanely put to sleep) . . . 3,077
Horses (taken from work) . . . 1
(humanely put to sleep) . . 11
4. Prosecutions . . 2 Convictions . . 1
Mileage ................... 20,748

SPRINGFIELD (OFFICER)
Fred F. Hall, Prosecuting Officer

1. CASES Number
Complaints received (investi-
gated) .................. 850
2. ANIMALS INSPECTED
On investigations only ...... 16,658
At stockyards and abattoirs . . . . 14,431
Auctions .................. 473
Total ................... 31,562

3. ANIMAL RELIEF WORK
Ambulance trips for lost, stray

or unwanted small animals . . 435

Small animals (returned to
owners) ................ 5
(placed in homes) ........ 10
(humanely put to sleep) . . 24
Horses (taken from work) . . . . 4
(humanely put to sleep) . . . 8
4. Prosecutions . . 5 Convictions . . 3
Mileage ................... 25,000

SPRINGFIELD (HOSPITAL)
3. ANIMAL RELIEF WORK

Ambulance trips for lost, stray

or unwanted small animals 1,882
Small animals (returned to

owners) ................ 330

(placed in homes) ....... 1,318

(humanely put to sleep) . . . 7,311

4. Mileage ..................... 12,219

M or. 19.41

ATTL\EBORO

Charles E. Brown, Prosecuting Officer

1. CASES Number
Complaints received (investi-
gated) .................. 283
2. ANIMALS INSPECTED
On investigations only ...... 2,514
Abattoirs and stockyards 3 l 8
Total ................... 2,832

3. ANIMAL RELIEF WORK

Ambulance trips for lost, stray

or unwanted animals ...... 339
Small animals (returned to
owners) ................ 33
(placed in homes) ........ 57
(humanely put to sleep) 1,090
Horses (taken from work) . . . . 14
(humanely put to sleep) . . . 15
4. Prosecutions . . 1 1 Convictions . . 9
Mileage ................... 32,472
H Y A N N I S
Harold C. Andrews, Prosecuting Officer
1. CASES Number
Complaints received (investi-
gated) ................. 336
2. ANIMALS INSPECTED
On investigations only ....... 1,630
3. ANIM'AL RELIEF WORK
Ambulance trips for lost, stray
or unwanted small animals . . 615
Small animals (returned to
owners) ................ 31
(placed in homes) ........ 10
(humanely put to sleep) . . . 939
Horses (humanely put to sleep) 3
4. Prosecutions . . l Convictions . . 1
Mileage ................... 32,988
W E N H A M
Fred T. Vickers, Prosecuting Officer
1. CASES ............... . . . Number
Complaints received (investi-
gated ................... 195
2. ANIMALS INSPECTED . . . . . . . . .
On investigations only ...... 5,994
Auctions .................. 2,344
Total ................... 8,338
3. ANIMAL RELIEF WORK
Ambulance trips for lost, stray
or unwanted small animals . . 530
Small animals (returned to
owners) ................ 2
'(placed in homes) ....... 54
(humanely put to sleep) 786
Horses (taken from work) . . . 25
(put to sleep) .......... 122
4. Prosecutions . . 6 Convictions . . 6
Mileage ................... 24,394

W O R C E S T E R
Robert L. Dyson, Prosecuting Officer

1. CASES Number
Complaints received (investi-
gated) .................. 403
2. ANIMALS INSPECTED
On investigations only ....... 3,184
Abattoirs and stockyards 1,527
Auctions .................. 120
Total ................... 4,831
3. ANIMAL RELIEF WORK
Small animals (placed in homes) 2
(humanely put to sleep) . . . 30
Horses (taken from work) . . . . 20
(humanely put to sleep) . . . _ 12
4. Prosecutions . . 12 Convictions . . 10

Mileage ...................

 




 

Mar. 1941

T A U N T O N
(Under direction of Mrs. Howard F.

Woodward)
3. ANIMAL RELIEF WORK Number
Small animals (returned to
owners) 92
(placed in. homes) . ...... 38
(humanely put to sleep) . . 1,209

New Land in Springﬁeld

The Society purchased last autumn a
vacant lot next to our Springﬁeld Hos—
pital. For years we have been aware
that soon or late we should have to en-
large our Hospital either by adding an—
other story or securing the land adjacent
to it—a lot with an 81-foot frontage and
110-foot depth. The Directors ﬁnally
purchased it for $6,500, $1,000 of this
amount generously contributed by the
Springﬁeld Women’s Auxiliary.

At as early a date as the money can
be secured for the purpose, we shall en-
close the iot, use as much of it as is
needed for extending the present build—
ing, providing for an isolated distemper
ward, better operating quarters and
larger waiting—rooms adjoining the clin—
ic. For this some $40,000 or $50,000
must be raised. It is either a question of
going ahead and keeping at the top in
animal hospitalization, or steadily drop-
ping back. This latter we must not con-
sider.

Women’s Auxiliaries

Under the direction of Mrs. Edith
Washburn Clarke, there have been or-
ganized since 1921 ﬁve women’s auxili-
aries in the following cities and towns:
Boston, Springﬁeld, Winchester, North-
ampton, and Great Barrington. These
Auxiliaries have served, with ﬁne devo-
tion and unfailing interest, the Society
and particularly the Angell Memorial
Animal Hospital and the Hospital in
Springﬁeld. They have raised generous
amounts of money for hospital equipment
and have rendered unusual service in
securing publicity for the work of the
entire organization. Under the ex—ofﬁcio
guidance of Mrs. Clarke are: Mrs. Mor-
ton B. Miner, president of the Springﬁeld
Auxiliary, Mrs. F. E. Dow, president of
the Northampton Auxiliary, Mrs. Robert
Magruder, president of the Great Bar-
rington Auxiliary.

The directors of the Society, its ofﬁ-
cers, and the doctors on the staff of these
two Hospitals, extend their sincere ap-
preciation for what these loyal and
devoted women have done.

Treasurer’s Report

In spite of the innumerable appeals for
the various charitable organizations from
the State and from the Nation that have
been coming to the members and friends
of the Massachusetts Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, we are

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

deeply grateful to these members and
friends to be able to say that with the
total expenses, including those connected
with the Boston Hospital and the Spring-
ﬁeld Hospital of $375,474.78 (including
depreciation), our receipts (including in~
come from the Trustees who have charge
of our invested funds) were $874,228.34.
It will be seen, therefore, that we close

the year with a slight deﬁcit of $1,246.44. '

This is all the more to be thankful for,
in view of the fact that We have had to
spend considerable money for bringing
our Hospital and its equipment up to the
last word in efﬁciency and service.

FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals

184 Longwood Avenue. Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

E. F. SCHROEDER, D.V.M., Chief of Staff
R. H. SCHNEIDER, V.M.D., Asst. Chief
G. B. SCHNELLE, V.M.D.

T. O. MUNSON, V.M.D.
C. L. BLAKELY, V.M.D.
M. S. ARLEIN, D.V.M.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springﬁeld Branch

Telephone 4-7355
53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.

Veterinarians

A. R. EVANS, V.M.D. . L. SMEAD, D.V.M.

 

 

 

RECENTLY RECONSTRUCTED WAITING—ROOM IN ANGELL ANIMAL

 

Page 53

FROM CHIEF O'FFICER’S REPORT

While the actual number of prosecu-
tions and convictions for: the year shows
a falling off, the work of the Society’s
humane ofﬁcers in respect to investiga-
tions and inspections has been carried on
without abatement. This may be rea-
sonably interpreted as that the efﬁciency
and inﬂuence of the Society now extends
into every section of the State.

In the enforcement of the anti—cruelty
laws during the past year a few offenses
may be cited as being of unusual occur—
rence. For cropping the ears of dogs
three convictions entailing ﬁnes of $50,
$25 and $10, were obtained; and, for the
sale of a ﬁctitious cropping certiﬁcate, :1
$10 ﬁne was imposed. Two prosecutions
of hit-and-run drivers of autos resulted
in ﬁnes of $80 and $25. For pasturing
cattle where there was inadequate feed,
ﬁne $25. Failure to provide proper shel—
ter of hogs, ﬁne $25. For overcrowding
calves in transportation a defendant was
ﬁned $50; another, for driving a lame
horse, paid ﬁne of $50; the offenses of
cruelly killing a cat and of scalding a
dog each received a ﬁne of $25.

Court action is by no means the chief
function of our representatives, now in
every county of the Commonwealth;
theirs, rather, is the duty and the task
of persuading, compelling and educating
the owners and custodians of animals to
treat their charges humanely at all times.

L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Officer

 

HOSPITAL, BOSTON. (See reference in Annual Report on page 51)

 

 

 

 




 

Ak‘-

t_-_‘_- 3“...“M-V

 

 

Page 48

Save the Trumpeter Swan

HIS is the heading of an appeal made

by the Emergency Conservation Com-
mittee, 734 Lexington Avenue, New
York City, to save from extermination
this beautiful bird. The appeal says:

Conservationists have watched with
concern and then with hope the admir-
able efforts of the National Park Service
and the Fish and Wildlife Service to
rescue from extermination in the United
States our largest swan, the trumpeter.
But latterly hope has been dimmed, and
anxiety for the swan has again become
acute.

The trumpeter swan is a magniﬁcent
bird of rare beauty, the very embodi-
ment of the romantic swan of legend and
fairy tale. It measures some six feet
from bill to end of tail, and has a wing-
spread of almost ten feet. It is glorious
in ﬂight. It has a deep, resonant voice,
with the quality of a French horn, or a.
“veritable trombone,” a voice so beauti—
ful that when its notes fall from a height
beyond man’s vision their music is said
to have a quality that is “heartbreak—
ing.”

Though speciﬁcally protected in the
migratory bird treaties, they are shot
in numbers, whether in malice or
through ignorance. Hunters usually offer
the excuse that they believe their quarry
to a be a snow goose. A game warden
recently permitted a trumpeter to be
displayed as a snow goose in the window
of a butcher’s shop. Few arrests are
made in proportion to the numbers of
trumpeters that are shot.

A fund of $1,000 is being sought to
save these birds from the same exter—
mination that wiped out the last
of the famous passenger pigeon.

Zﬂhe 755mb nf merrg

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary
E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer

PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living crea-
tures and try to protect them from cruel
usage.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Four hundred and sixty-two
new Bands of Mercy were re-
ported during January. These
were distributed as follows:

Rhode Island ............ 80
Florida ................. 69
South Carolina .......... 62
Massachusetts .......... 57
Virginia ................ 55
Texas .................. 53
Maine .................. 39
Georgia ................. 32
Pennsylvania ............ 15

Total number Bands of Mercy
organized by Parent-American
Society, 256,171.

CANADA JAY COMES TO DINNER AND
STOPS TO PASS THE TIME OF DAY

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Birds on the Wing
B . B .

EARS ago John Burroughs, the

great naturalist, ran a column in

the daily newspaper we read. I was then

a small boy but it ﬁred my interest and

I determined that I would make a study
of the birds in the region roundabout.

I have never regretted that resolve for
it has brought me much pleasure. Even
now, as I work about the farm, I never
see a bird without instinctively identify-
ing it.

There goes a kingbird drifting over
the yard on quivering wing; that ﬂash of
orange that disappeared into that grove
of aspens was a Baltimore oriole. Bob—
bing up and down in lilting ﬂight and
song over the pasture go a ﬂock of gold-
ﬁnches and just over the top of those
willows glides a marsh hawk scanning the
ground below for a vagrant mouse or
ground squirrel.

In the spring that tiny speck hovering
way, way up there in the blue is a horned
lark and that chunky fellow gliding to a
stop on a fencepost is a meadowlark.
When summer comes and a tiny dark
green bird darts in and out among the
ﬂowers I know him at once for the ruby-
throated humming bird. As the fall days
approach and I am in the ﬁeld shocking
grain I hear a shrill scream from far
above and I turn my gaze upward to see
a pair of hen hawks circling, incessantly
ClI‘Cllng.

Winter comes and after a storm from
the north comes sharp, cold weather.
Then as I walk out to the barn in the
morning with the milk pails on my arm

 

Mar. 1941

a slate-colored bird emerges from a
snowy box-elder and on soft wing slips
down for a bit of suet at the bird feed-
ing station that the chickadees, hairy and
downy woodpeckers usually regard as
their own. “That’s a Canada jay,” I say
to myself, “food must be getting scarce
up north for old Whiskey Jack.”

A Word From Ireland

Michael O’Connor for years has been
representing our American Humane
Education So‘ciety in Ireland. A report
from him from Galway City, dated De-
cember, 1940, reads:

“I have received the check and your
letter, for which I again beg to thank
you. Since it came I have lectured in a
good many schools on the better treat—
ment of animals and birds. These have
been schools that have not, up to the
present, ever been visited or talked to
about this whole matter of kindness to
animals. But for the check I would not
have been able to reach them.

“I have also been to several villages
where people were working animals.
Warning against hobbling of goats and
sheep has had to be given, and I am now
busy in this city seeing to donkeys and
the proper conveying of fowl.

“The Irish Society is sending books
and humane literature to these schools.”

Mr. O’Connor has been receiving for
some years a small amount from a fund
given us for work in foreign countries.
He has been a faithful and devoted ser—
vant of the cause.

American F ondouk
Annual Report from Fez—1940

We are glad that we are able to give
the friends of the Fez Fondouk the fol—

lowing:

Daily average of large animals hospitalized. 43.8

Daily average of dogs in the Pound, fed by
Fondouk .................................... 6.1

Animals “Put to sleep”—-certified by the veter—
inary surgeon as incurable. These animals
have been acquired by the Fondouk to “put

to sleep” with the consent of their owners 102
Animals hospitalized during the year ......... 1,123

Hospitalized by us and police .......... 920*

Hospitalized by owners ................ 203

Number of visits of inspection to the native
fondouks (Medina, Fes-Jedid, Casbat ben
Debbab, Mellah, Souk e1 Khemis, Bab Jiaf,

Ville Nouvelle, etc.) ........................ 4,854
Animals inspected during these visits ........ 81,946
Animals treated on the spot .................. 7,845
Animals hospitalized ......................... 920
Number of infected pack—saddles destroyed . . . 223
Number of Arab bits destroyed .............. 220
Number of animals brought to the Fondouk by

their owners for treatment (outpatients).... 4,762
Animals transported in motor-ambulances 96

*245 animals hospitalized by or through Police Dept.

In spite of the difﬁculties of the pres-
ent time (high cost of forage, medicine,
etc.) you will be pleased to see that our
work has been about the same as the
preceding years, and even that the ani-
mals treated as outpatients are more
numerous than in 1939.

As for our total expenses, they are as
follows: $3,206.97 for the year, about
$500 less than in 1939.

GUY DELON, Superintendent

 




 

April, 1941

\
\

3i g
at;

‘I
As

. J“
i\ ’9
AME

are,»

x'&

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel
JOSEPH MOONEY, Treasurer’s Assistant

Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President and Ch. Fi-
nance Com., United Shoe Machinery Corporation

CHARLES E. SPENCER, JR., President, First National
Bank of Boston
Prosecuting Officers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100

L..WILLARD WALKER, Chief Ofﬁcer
HARRY L. ALLEN HOWARD WILLAND
HARVEY R. FULLER J. ROBERT SMITH

County Prosecuting Officers

HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston
FRED T. VICKERS, Wenham
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen
JOSEPH E. HASWELL, Methuen
FRED F. HALL, Springﬁeld

Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester Worcester
CHARLES E. BROWN, Attleboro, Bristol and Plymouth
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis

Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket

T. KING HASWELL, Pittsﬁeld Berkshire

Middlesex and Norfolk
Eastern Essex
Western Essex
Western Essex

Best Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
' Methuen
W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent

Other Small Animal Shelters of M.

Boston, 170-184 Longwood Avenue
Springﬁeld, 53-57 Bliss Street

Pittsﬁeld, 224 Cheshire Road

Attleboro, 3 Commonwealth Avenue
Hyannis, State Road, Rte. 28, Centerville
Wenham, Cherry Street

S. I’. C. A.

FEBRUARY REPORT OF THE OFFICERS
OF THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.,
WITH HEADQUARTERS AT BOSTON,
METHUEN, SPRINGFIELD, PITTSFIELD,
ATTLEBORO, WENHAM, HYANNIS, WOR-
CESTER, FITCHBURG, NORTHAMPTON,
HAVERHILL, HOLYOKE, ATHOL, TAUN-
TON, COVERING THE ENTIRE STATE

Miles traveled by humane officers . . 14,485
Cases investigated ......... . . . . 222
Animals examined ............. 6,078
Animals placed in homes ....... 249
Lost animals restored to owners. . 77
Number of prosecutions ......... 2
Number of convictions .......... 2
Horses taken from work ........ 3
Horses humanely put to sleep. . . . 23
Small animals humanely put to sleep 1,511
Horse auctions attended ........ 12
Stockyards and Abattoirs
Animals inspected ............. 51,094
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep ................ 63

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals
184 Longwood Avenue. Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

E. F. SCHROEDER, D.V.M., Chief of Staff
R. H. SCHNEIDER, v.M.D., Asst. Chief
G. B. SCHNELLE, v.M.D.

T. O. MUNSON, v.M.D.
C. L. BLAKELY, v.M.D.
M. S. ARLEIN, D.v.M.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springﬁeld Branch

Telephone 4-7355
53-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.

Veterinarians

A. R. EVANS, v.M.D. . L. SMEAD, D.v.M.

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR FEBRUARY
At 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

Cases entered in Hospital .......... 730
Cases entered in Dispensary ...... 1,560
Operations ....................... 360

At Springﬁeld Branch, 53 Bliss Street

Cases entered in Hospital ......... 172
Cases entered in Dispensary ...... 677
Operations ....................... 119

At Attleboro Clinic, 3 Commonwealth Ave.

 

Cases entered .................... 92
Totals
Hospital cases since Opening, Mar.
1, 1915 ....................... 191,841
Dispensary Cases ............... 483,553
Total

.............. 675,394

At a meeting of the Winchester
Branch of the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.,
held February 13, 1941, it was reported
that their recent sale was very success-
ful and netted a good amount for the
work of the Branch.

The Taunton Branch had a sale in
February which netted $30 for the use
of that organization. This Branch has
been very successful in returning lost
pets to their owners.

Branches and Auxiliaries
MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.

Mass. S. P. C. A.-——MRs.
Pres.; MRS. THos. H. CAS-

Taunton Branch of
HOWARD F. WOODWARD,
WELL, Sec.

Northampton Branch of Mass. S. P. C A.—MRS.
F. E. DOW, Pres.; MISS JANE BIGELOW, Treas.

Great Barrington Branch of Mass. P. C. A.—
MRS. ROBERT MAGRUDER, Pres.; MRS. DONALD WORTH-
INGTON, Treas.

Holyoke Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.-——JOHN J.
ZIELINSKI, Pres.; URBAN ERNST, Treas.

W'omen’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Longwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. WILLIAM E. UNDERWOOD, Treas.;
MRS. GEORGE D. COLPAS, Ch. Work Com. First Friday.

Springfield Branch Auxiliary—MRS. MORTON B.
MINER, Pres.; MRS. HERBERT T. PAYNE, Treas. Second
Thursday.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary—MRS. EDITH WASH-
BURN CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. JOHN HAMILTON CLARKE,
Treas.

Please remember the Massachusetts
S. P. C. A. When making your will.

Page 71

A Boy Talks of His Gun

YOUNG lad fourteen years Of age

sends a dollar for our Society’s
work, because he says he loves animals.
Whether or not we agree with him we
must admire him for the courage of his
convictions.

Referring to an article by one of our
workers in our February issue, entitled
“Children—Homes—Guns,” he says, “I
don’t know anything about the lady who
wrote that article, but she must not
know what it is all about when she gives
children a good ripping up the back for
something that isn’t their fault.”

“She says ‘TOO many children know
too much about guns.’ I say to her ‘My
dear Madam, it isn’t the children who
know something about guns that shoot
each other.’ I am a boy fourteen years
Of age and have been using a gun for
six years. There are many other boys
like me. I don’t think I’ll ever shoot any-
body because when I started using a gun
my parents had enough brains to teach
me that guns are made to kill with and
that a person must always be careful
when using them.

“It isn’t the children’s fault, it’s the
parents’. Why don’t they teach the boys
and girls how to use guns instead of
sitting back and giving them for
something that isn’t their fault?

“My idea on the subject is: TOO many
parents are too lazy about helping chil-
dren to help themselves.”

An Animal Lover,
TED ZISKE

 

Salem, Missouri

“P. S. Here is $1.00. I hope it does
some good.”

The hunting instinct is born in many
a lad. In some it is put to sleep by the
atmosphere and training of the home.
In many cases, maturer years bring such
a consciousness of the sacredness Of life
that guns are put away. If this young
lad loves animals, as we believe he does,
we think soon or late he will not want to
kill anything. In our letter to him we
talked a little about hunting and urged
him to think about the wisdom of trying
to hunt with a camera. The letter gave
every evidence that to this young lad a
dollar meant some real self-sacriﬁce.

Annual Hospitality Day

The annual Hospitality Day, bridge,
and afternoon tea Of the Women’s Aux-
iliary of the Massachusetts S. P. C. A.
will be held from one to ﬁve O’clock,
April 15, at the Angel] Animal Hospital.
Mrs. Edith Washburn Clarke is the gen—
eral chairman. Other chairmen are Mrs.
Charles Staniek, bridge; Mrs. Ralph
Dunn, afternoon tea, Mrs. George C01-
pas, Easter sale; Mrs. Herbert E. Pres-
cott, food table. Members and friends of
the Society are urged to attend.

 




 

Jan. 19.41

x/ V»
%. .
6,44

 

Founded by Geo. T. Angell. Incorporated March, 1868

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer
GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary
PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel
JOSEPH MOONEY, Treasurer’s Assistant
Trustees of Permanent Funds
JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation
CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President and Treasurer,
United Shoe Machinery Corporation
CHARLES E. SPENCER, JR., President, First National
Bank of Boston
Prosecuting Officers in Boston
Telephone (Complaints, Ambulances) Longwood 6100
L. WILLARD WALKER, Chief Ofﬁcer
HARRY L. ALLEN HOWARD WILLAND
HARVEY R. FULLER J. ROBERT SMITH
County Prosecuting Officers

HERMAN N. DEAN, Boston Middlesex and Norfolk
FRED T. VICKERS, Wenham Eastern Essex
WILLIAM W. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex
JOSEPH E. HASWELL, Methuen Western Essex.
FRED T. HALL, Springﬁeld

Hampden, Hampshire and Franklin
ROBERT L. DYSON, Worcester orcester
CHARLES E. BROWN, Attleboro, Bristol and Plymouth
HAROLD G. ANDREWS, Hyannis

Barnstable, Dukes and Nantucket
T. KING HASWELL, Pittsﬁeld Berkshire

Rest Farm for Horses and Small Animal Shelter,
Methuen

W. W. HASWELL, Superintendent
Other Small Animal Shelters of M. S. P. C. A.

Boston, 170-184 Longwood Avenue
Springﬁeld, 53-57 Bliss Street

Pittsﬁeld, 224 Cheshire Road

Attleboro, 3 Commonwealth Avenue
Hyannis, State Road, Rte. 28, Centerville
Wenham, Cherry Street

Taunton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—-MRS.
HOWARD F. WOODWARD, Pres.; MRS. THOS. H. CAS-
WELL, Sec.

Northampton Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—MRS.
F. E. DOW, Pres.; MISS JANE BIGELOW, Treas.
Great Barrington Branch of Mass. 8'. P. C. A.—

MRS. ROBERT MAGRUDER, Pres., MRS. DONALD WORTH-
INGTON, Treas.

Holyoke Branch of Mass. S. P. C. A.—MRs. AARON
C. BAGG, Pres.; MRS. ROBERT NEWCOMB, Treas.

NOVEMBER REPORT OF THE OFFICERS
OF THE MASSACHUSETTS S. P. C. A.,
WITH HEADQUARTERS AT BOSTON,
METHUEN, SPRINGFIELD, PITTSFIELD,
ATTLEBORO, WENHAM, HYANNIS, WOR-
CESTER, FITCHBURG, NORTHAMPTON,
HAVERHILL, HOLYOKE, ATHOL, TAUN-
TON, COVERING THE ENTIRE STATE

Miles traveled by humane ofﬁcers . . 13,979
Cases investigated ............. 268
Animals examined ............. 6,779
Animals placed in homes ....... 235
Lost animals restored to owners. . 72
Number of prosecutions ......... 4
Number of convictions .......... 4
Horses taken from work ........ 10
Horses humanely put to sleep. . . . 64
Small animals humanely put to sleep 1,732
Horse auctions attended ........ 12
Stockyards and Abattoirs
Animals inspected ............. 58,711
Cattle, swine and sheep humanely
put to sleep ................ 31

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL
HOSPITAL

and Dispensary for Animals

184 Longwood Avenue. Telephone, Longwood 6100

Veterinarians

E. F. SCHROEDER, D.v.M., Chief of Staff
R. H. SCHNEIDER, v.M.D., Asst. Chief
. SCHNELLE, v.M.D.

. MUNSON, v.M.D.

. BLAKELY, v.M.D.

M. S. ARLEIN, D.v.M.

HARRY L. ALLEN, Superintendent

Springﬁeld Branch

Telephone 4-7355
63-57 Bliss Street, Springﬁeld, Mass.

Veterinarians
H

A. R. EVANS, v.M.D. . L. SMEAD, D.v.M.

 

 

 

HOSPITAL REPORT FOR NOVEMBER

At 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston

Cases entered in Hospital ......... 804
Cases entered in Dispensary ...... 1,893
Operations ...................... 346

At Springﬁeld Branch, 53 Bliss Street

Cases entered in Hospital ......... 188
Cases entered in Dispensary ....... 698
Operations ....................... 133

At Attleboro Clinic, 3 Commonwealth Ave.

Cases entered .................... 61
Totals
Hospital cases since Opening, Mar.
1, 1915 ....................... 188,987
Dispensary Cases ............... 476,325
Total ............... 665,312

Trapping for Fur

The attempt to defend from the charge
of cruelty the methods by which the most
of our furs are secured is idle. The facts
are well known. When it is said that “the
trap or the riﬂe gives the Victim a com-
paratively painless death,” we are will-
ing to admit this, so far as the riﬂe is in
the hands of an expert, but it is wholly
untrue with regard to the traps by which
the vast majority of fur—bearing animals
are captured. It was said by one, trying
to justify the fur trade, that “it is a
force, making for the conservation of
wild life.” From the reports of the multi-
tudes of skins annually sold, we would
suggest that the word “conservation” be
changed to “extermination.”

Auxiliaries of Mass. S. P. C. A.

Women’s Auxiliary of the Mass. S. P. C. A., 180
Imgwood Avenue, Boston—MRS. EDITH WASHBURN
CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. WILLIAM E. UNDERWOOD, Treas.;
MRS. GEORGE D. COLPAS, Ch. Work Com. First Friday.

Springfield Branch Auxiliary—MRS. MORTON B.
MINER, Pres.; MRS. HERBERT T. PAYNE, Treas. Second
Thursday.

Winchester Branch Auxiliary—MRS. EDITH WASH-
BURN CLARKE, Pres.; MRS. JOHN HAMILTON CLARKE,
Treas.

Page 11

How to Reform the Slaughter-

House

RANSPLANT it from its place of ob-

scurity on the outskirts of the city to
the thickly—settled section of the city it-
self, ﬁll its outer walls with 10,000 win—
dows, so that all passers—by can see the
treatment the animals are subjected to
whose ﬂesh they are to eat, and the re-
forms demanded by our humane societies
will be speedily secured. The now igno-
rant, indifferent public will cry out
against the cruelties associated with the
killing of the more than 100,000,000 food
animals annually slaughtered in this
country.

To see these unfortunate Victims hur-
ried on their way to death, frightened by
the strange sights and sounds and odors
of the slaughter-house, jerked up by a
hind leg, the most of them, and, so
suspended, bleeding slowly to death from
the knife’s gash in the throat, would be
to stir the indignant protest of all who
witnessed such scenes.

Massachusetts the Leader in

Humane Legislation

To have enacted in 1641 legislation
in defense of animals puts Massachu-
setts to the front in this respect. Under
the title “Liberties of the Brute Crea-
ture,” the Colony of Massachusetts Bay
in the above year enacted the following:

“Ch. 91. No man shall exercise any
Tirranny or Crueltie towards any brute
Creatures which are usuallie kept for
man’s use.

“Ch. 92. If any man shall have occa-
sion to leade or drive Cattel from place
to place that is far off so that they be
weary or hungry or fall sick or lambe,
it shall be lawful to rest or refresh
them for a competent time in any open
place that is not Corne, meadow or en-
closed for some peculiar use.”

This bit of ancient history was
brought to light by Mr. Charles C. Bell,
of Andover, Massachusetts, as the result
of an interesting article in the Boston
Transcript on the work of our American
Humane Education Society.

The Lost Dog

While it is true that dog thieves are
always at work in cities, many dogs are
lost to their owners through the failure
to keep on the dog’s neck a collar with
owner’s name and license number. Dogs,
valuable ones, are frequently brought to
us with collars on, but with no means of
identiﬁcation on the collar. Why not pro-
tect your dog from the sad lot of the
lost, the homeless, and the strayed?

Please remember the American Hu-
mane Education Society, Boston, in
your will.

 




 

Jan. 1941

you set for them! How eagerly they will
eat!

Then when the sun comes out again,
clear, sweet songs will ﬁll'the air. Listen!
Isn’t that liquid melody and the happy
look in the robin’s eye the grandest
thanks you ever received from man’s
truest feathered friend, the beautiful,
cheerful robin? He is one friend who
never fails to show his appreciation
through his trust in us and by his happy,
gladdening song.

A Unique Feeder
FERN BERRY

UITE by accident we discovered

how much pleasure our winter bird
visitors, as well as a frisky red squirrel,
could get from a pumpkin, broken in half
and placed where they could get at it.
How the nuthatches enjoy the plump
pumpkin seeds! They seem to enjoy delv-
ing into the mass of pulp to pull them
out, and we noticed that several of the
birds ate the pulp as well as the seeds.

A big pumpkin had frosted and we
placed it on the rubbish barrel to be
carried away. Soon it was the scene of
a bird feast, and we were given an idea.
We placed the seed ﬁlled pulp of both
pumpkin and squash for the birds all
winter. Chickadees like the nut-like seeds
as well as bluejays, starlings and card—
inals. Squirrels also like the seeds and
will most likely act greedily by ﬁlling
their cheeks full, to be whisked away to
their own cubbyholes.

Since we have lots of winter rain with
ice and sleet, as well as snow, we con-
trived a feeding station which, would not
let the food get wet or frozen or be blown
away by the average wintry blasts.

A large, shallow, wooden chopping bowl
was used, and a small hole bored through
the center-bottom. A nail will split the
wood usually. A large spike was driven
through this hole and into a post three or
four feet high. The post was set into the
ground during the summer and was shel-
tered by an evergreen hedge, yet was
within sight of our kitchen window. The
bowl was partly ﬁlled with a mixture of
wheat, cracked corn, sunﬂower seed, rice,
weed seed, and green leaves from the
alfalfa mow of a farmer friend.

An old kitchen—table oilcloth served as
a cover for this unique feeding station.
It was cut into a round piece and an
elastic run all around the edge to make
a tight ﬁtting cover. This was one of our
“chores” to place this over our station
after dark and remove it very early.
Cardinals will come before the sun is up.
But, we were more than repaid by our
loyal bird friends, even a roving ﬂock of
evening grosbeaks. We attracted and
kept a robin as well as the more hardy
winter birds.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Page 15

Protecting Arctic Waterfowl
W . J . B A N K S

 

THE BLUE GOOSE AND ITS NEST

NDER the Migratory Birds Treaty
I! I the United States and Canada work

hand in hand for the protection
and welfare of the feathered folk who
are yearly commuters between the two
nations. This co-operation was typiﬁed
in a recent expedition to James Bay for
the purpose of investigating conditions
relating to waterfowl and shore—birds in
that region of the sub-Arctic. The sur—
vey was made by representatives of both
countries.

The international party traveled 825
miles by motorboat, visiting settlements
on both shores of the southern arm of
Hudson Bay. A study of ducks, geese
and snipe was made on the broad coastal
marshes while Akimiski and Charlton
islands were visited. A special inspec-
tion of the Hannah Bay Waterfowl
Sanctuary disclosed great ﬂocks of
waterfowl and shore-birds feeding tran—
quilly, though a number of Indians and a
few white men were hunting outside the
boundaries of the preserve.

The most important of the migratory
game birds of the James Bay area are
the mysterious blue geese. Only in quite
recent times have ornithologists recog-
nized this as a separate species, and
found the breeding and winter feeding
grounds on Bafﬁn Land and the Louisi—
ana coast respectively. Many of the
habits of the blue goose and the reasons
for his strange ways still remain secret.
Great ﬂocks of blue geese were found
feeding by James Bay, having started

the southward journey which would later
pass through Manitoba and down the
Mississippi valley.

The preservation of the blue goose and
other species is a matter of mutual inter-
est to the two nations and the joint ex—
pedition to the sub-Arctic is a striking
manifestation of their ever-closer co-
operation and understanding.

Time Off to Wash Swans

We get another slant on the many-‘
sided British character from the news
story about the hand-laundered swans,
says The Times, Gloucester, Mass. Those
poor birds had got terribly messed up by-
the thick oil in the Thames river, from
dud bombs. Their pride was hurt, for
swans are normally not only very digni-.
ﬁed, but very clean. They nearly died
from overwork, trying to clean them—.
selves.

So the Royal Society for Prevention of‘
Cruelty to Animals came to their rescue.
It took 30 swans from the river between
bombings, washed them with soap ﬂakes,
and put them back in a stretch of water
farther upstream, where it was clean.
And were those swans pleased and
grateful!

The least weasel found in western
Canada and Alaska, is said to be the
smallest carnivore in the world. The
Kodiak bear, also of Alaska, is the larg~.
est carnivorous animal in the world.

 

 




 

May, 191,1

01hr 715mm 11f merry nr

3111mm ﬁumame Elie-£19112

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary
E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer

PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living crea-
tures and try to protect them from
cruel usage.

The American Humane Education So—
ciety will send to every person who forms
a Band of Mercy of thirty members, and
sends the name chosen for the Band and the
name and post—ofﬁce address of the presi-
dent who has been duly elected, special
Band of Mercy literature and a gilt badge
for the president. See inside front cover
for prices of literature and Band of Mercy
Supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Seven hundred and thirty-two new
Bands of Mercy were reported during
March. These were distributed as fol-
lows :—

 

Rhode Island ................... 214
Illinois ........................ 203
Florida ........................ 61
New York ...................... 56
North Carolina ................. 47
Virginia ....................... 44
Georgia ........................ 43
South Carolina ................. 33
Pennsylvania ................... 16
Massachusetts .................. 12
Mlchigan ....................... 2
Maine .......... . ............. . 1

732

Total number Bands of Mercy organ—
ized by Parent American Society,
257,620.

Protecting the Toad

HE children of Waycross, Georgia,
for the past eleven years have de-
voted the third week in March to adver-
tising the many virtues of the common
garden toad. They make posters; write
stories and essays; compile scrapbooks;
make table decorations, place cards, pro-
vide a speaker on the importance of the
toad; buy door prizes in toad design, and
serve cakes baked in toad shape at the
luncheons of the local Lions, Kiwanis,
Rotary, and Exchange clubs. They have
programs in the schools and build toad
houses in their gardens, church and
school yards, city Parks, Y.M.C.A., etc.
This year they had a motion picture
party. Although it rained all day, there
was a line of children, two blocks long,
each with a paper of “toad facts,” thirty
minutes before the theater opened.
This annual observance won for Way-
cross a silver cup for the most outstand-
ing humane education work in Georgia
several years ago.

.OUR DUMB ANIMALS

 

Hail to the Chickadee!

HE Chickadee was recently adopted

as the state bird of Massachusetts.
It received an overwhelming vote from
residents of the state, far exceeding that
of its nearest rival, the song sparrow.

The late Edward Howe Forbush wrote
in a leaﬂet on this subject:

“It’s impossible to do more than touch
upon the habits of this delightful bird.
Much has been written of its habits, but
the half has never been told. An ade-
quate history of its bright and cunning
ways, its many expedients and devices.
would ﬁll a book. Its chief apparent
characteristics, from a human point of
View, are courage, optimism, industry,
activity, helpfulness and joy in life.”

Gene’s Menagerie
VINCENT EDWARDS

BOUT 80 years ago a little boy,

named Eugene Field, but commonly
called Gene, lived in Amherst, Massa—
chusetts. His home was with his Aunt
Mary and his little brother Roswell
whom everybody called “Rosy,” and his
cousin Mary.

He couldn’t have been very old when
he ﬁrst showed his love for pets. First,
it was a snapping-turtle he brought
home when he went on a stroll for wild
ﬂowers with Cousin Mary. “Gene” had
never seen anything more curious, he
thought.

Then he felt sorry for a poor stray cat
and gave it a home in the loft of his
aunt’s barn. But it wasn’t long before
the cat had a family of three lively kit-
tens, so Gene had more animals on his
hands.

When Aunt Mary’s good friend, the
Deacon, gave her nephews six baby
chicks, Gene decided to bring them up
properly. He gave each one a name, and

Page 97

a queerer lot you never heard—“Finni-
ken, “Minniken,” “Winniken,” “Dump,”
“Poog” and “Boog.” Their master even
taught them to answer to certainwhis—
tles, and soon they responded to their
own special calls.

More pets came soon. In a hollow oak
stump another boy showed Gene two
baby squirrels—tiny orphans, for their
mother was dead. But when Gene wanted
to bring them home, Cousin Mary
wouldn’t hear of it. But this boy loved
them so much he hid them in his room.
One morning Cousin Mary told Aunt
Mary she was sure she had heard mice
in the house, but Aunt Mary said it
couldn’t be. After that Gene left his win-
dow open and in no time at all the little
squirrels had grown to be big squirrels
and had run off without even saying
goodbye to their young friend.

A week later a kind man made Gene
a present of a mole. The boy put this
in his bureau drawer and liked to watch
it feel its way around with its funny
little nose. It must have had a “sweet
tooth,” for it seemed to like honey.

Gene had so many pets now that peo-
ple began to speak of his “menagerie.”
A proud addition was “Dooley,” a stray
dog who looked so grimy and dusty when
Gene ﬁrst found him out by the barn
that he had taken soap and water and
given him an even harder scrubbing
than he gave himself Saturday nights.
Then, to make the dog attractive to Aunt
Mary, Gene sprinkled plenty of his aunt’s
perfume over its furry coat. Aunt Mary
couldn’t resist a dog like that, the boy
was sure, and when she found out how
much Gene loved him, she let him stay.

After a while Gene was sent away to
school. When he grew up, he became a
famous writer. He worked on news-
papers in St. Louis, Denver and Chicago.
But wherever he lived, he always had
pets about, and his heart went out to
stray cats and dogs.

One time, when he was running his
famous column “Sharps and Flats” in
a Chicago paper, Eugene Field wrote of
how lonely his home had become since
his little fox terrier “Jessie” had run
away. He was sure Jessie was an edu—
cated dog, for he wrote, “We have tried
our poems on Jessie, and she always
liked them; leastwise she always wagged
her tail approvingly.”

Almost all children today have been
read some of Eugene Field’s lovely
poems. “Wynken, Blynken and Nod,”
“The Sugar Plum Tree,” “The Night
Wind” and “Little Boy Blue”——these and
many more are familiar to little people
and grown-ups alike. A ﬁne statue of
this beloved writer stands in a Chicago
park. The pennies of thousands of chil—
dren helped to build it. It is a lovely
memorial to the man who found a place
in his heart for so many children and
homeless animals.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

J‘LA.‘ .. I

JUNE 1941

OUR DUMB

 

A SURVIVOR OF THE COVENTRY AIR-RAID (See page 110)

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY
FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY
TO ANIMALS g THE AMERICAN
HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 176

or sheep. Instead, they work their way
up wind, slowly bucking the force of the
storm and preserving their compact
grouping which protects both the herder
and the younger and weaker animals.

Not only are the reindeer at home on
the wind—swept barren lands, but they
are excellent swimmers and take readily
to water. In the summer they frequently
wade out into ponds to feed and they
graze on marshland with ease. Their
complete independence is their greatest
asset to native herders who know that
their four-footed charges will ﬁnd food
literally anywhere.

Reindeer came to Alaska in 1890 as
a result of the pioneering efforts of Dr.
Sheldon Jackson who brought in an orig-
inal herd of 171 animals from which
have come the million and a half rem-
deer in Alaska today. This tremendous
increase is explained by the fact that
reindeer herds double their number
every three years, and that under U. S.
government supervision every care and
attention was given the animals.

Alaskan natives before the coming of
reindeer lived like famished wolves.
Occasionally they were relieved by de-
bilitating charity. The reindeer make
them self-supporting. Abundant milk and
cheese supplies brought blessings of
health. Clean pride and healthy ambi-
tion grew apace. Reindeer care and
breeding was made a part of vocational
training of Alaska’s young men, and on
the forbidding shores of the Bering Sea
arose a land of prosperity where only
destitution had ﬂourished before. Thou-
sands of Arctic families owe not only
their lives, but pride and self-respect as
well to the four-footed creature who
transformed them from objects of char-
ity to self-supporting citizens.

Where men are willing to recognize
their interdependence with animal life,
where they respect the conservative
forces of nature, where they admit that
the hands of God’s universe move not
backward but forward, just so long will
their rightful dominion continue to be
established and more and more will
waste places on the earth be brought
into production.

Humane education is the foundation of
all reform. If it were universally adopted,
poverty, crime and war would be greatly
diminished, and in time the vast amount
of money expended to sustain armies,
prisons, etc., would be saved for the
beneﬁt of the people.

Our readers are urged to clip from
“Our Dumb Animals” various articles
and request local editors to republish.
Such copies will be made good by us

OUR DUMB

 

ANIMALS

Sept. 191,1

Britain’s Sheep Dogs —— Champions of the Hills

E. R. YARHAM

LITTLE black and white object
A streaks through the grass and

heather. Suddenly a shrill whistle,
almost inaudible to the human senses,
pierces the air, and the object drops like
a stone, panting on its belly.

A second whistle, of slightly different
tone, follows, and the object is converted
into a ﬂash of nearly human intelligence
and co-ordinated muscles. So it works
on from second to second, now crouch-
ing, then lying down like a cat stalking
a bird, or creeping this way and that
with its body touching the ground, and
all the time getting nearer the creatures
which are its objectives, moving them on
until it gets them into the fold, and then
its master, with a rapidity born of long
experience, pens them with a single mo—
tion.

Such is the way Britain’s champion
sheep dogs work, and to those unfa-
miliar with the teamwork achieved by
man and dog its artistry is a revelation.
It would be impossible, in fact, except for
the sagacity displayed by the dogs. At
least three and a half centuries of breed-
ing for brain lie behind the intelligence
of Britain’s sheep dogs. Indeed, on occa-
sion they seem to know far more about
the sheep than do their masters them-
selves.

At a Scottish trial the spectators once
watched the comedy of a dog disobeying
the majority of his master’s
orders, although of course with
a sheep dog instant obedience is,
as a rule, one of the ﬁrst and
most important lessons it has to
learn. A warm day, however,
combined with the effects of an
after-dinner dram, had rendered
the shepherd rather hazy in his
notions as to what was going on.
He repeatedly gave wrong
orders, which his dog knew were
not correct. He did what his
intelligence dictated and romped
home into the prize list. The
case of this dog recalls an even
more astonishing one of an East
Anglican sheep-dog which is
totally blind, yet which has won
challenge cups and prizes. In
spite of its severe handicap, the
dog works with mavelous accu-
racy, relying absolutely on its
master’s voice to tell it where to
go and how to approach the
sheep.

Such dogs are brought up to
their work almost from birth.
So wonderful is the sheep dog’s
inherited instinct to herd and

charge of the poultry in the farmyard
where it was born. One sees the puppy
lying in the yard, with its eyes on the
birds, sees it, without a word of encour-
agement being said to it, or a sign being
made to it, round them up to eat their
meals, and escort them to their roosting-
house in the evening. As a matter of
fact, if a puppy does not show such signs
of inherited suitability for the work of
herding sheep, the shepherds will not
take the trouble to complete its educa-
tion.

Puppies are put into training, work-
ing with the older dogs when they are
about six months old. They are gener-
ally entered for their ﬁrst tests when
18 months or so. A sheep dog is in its
prime from two to five years old. Far
older dogs than this, however, frequent-
ly put up remarkable performances in
the trials. Their accumulated experience
and the wisdom acquired of years tell,
but they are handicapped by lack of
speed. As working dogs on the hillsides
they are worthy of their posts and can
hold their own against the young ones.
The dogs are sometimes called upon to
run 100 miles in their day’s work.

Let us have faith that Right makes
Might, and in that faith let us dare to
do our duty as we understand it.

LINCOLN

 

 

 

A NATIVE OF THE MAINE WOODS
CAUGHT BY THE CAMERA

protect that when it is a puppy

l upon application. of only six weeks old it will take

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 198

@112 Zﬁanh nf Hilary nr

Eluninr ﬁumam’ 311mm]?
DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary
E. A. MARYOTT, State’ Organizer

PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living crea-
tures and try to protect them from
cruel usage.

The American Humane Education So-
ciety will send to every person who forms
a Band of Mercy of thirty members, and
sends the name chosen for the Band and the
name and post—ofﬁce address of the pre31-
dent who has been duly elected, special
Band of Mercy literature and a gilt badge
for the president. See inside front cover
for prices of literature and Band of Mercy
Supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Fifteen new Bands of Mercy were re-
ported during August; seven in Vir-
ginia and four each in Pennsylvania and
Texas.

Total number Bands of Mercy organ-
ized by Parent American Society,
259,478.

Just as you now play a piece without
the music, and do not think What notes
you strike, though once you picked them
out by slow and patient toil, so, if you
begin of set purpose, you will learn the
law of kindness in utterance so perfectly
that it will be second nature to you and
make more music in your heart than all
the songs the sweetest voice has ever
sung.

FRANCES E. WILLARD

 

MALE DWARF HERMIT THRUSH
A matchless singer

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Oct. 1941

CGBum99

From ”Cheerio," Author Unknown

He’s a little dog with a stubby tail, and a moth-eaten coat of tan,

And his legs are of the wobbly sort, I doubt it he ever ran;

And he howls at night, while in broad daylight he sleeps like a blooming log
And he likes the feed of a gutter breed, he's a most irregular dog.

I call him ”Bum," and in total sum, he’s all that his name implies,
For he’s just a tramp, with a highway stamp, that culture cannot disguise,

And his friends, I've found in the streets abound, be they urchins or dogs or men

I

Yet he sticks to me, with a fiendish glee,- it is tricky beyond ken.

I talk to him when I’m lonesome like and I'm sure that he understands

When he looks at me so attentively and gently licks my hands,

Then he rubs his nose on my tailored clothes but I never say ought thereat
For the good Lord knows, I can buy more clothes, but never a friend like that.

So my good old pal, my irregular dog, my stub-tailed friend,

Has become a part of my very heart, to be cherished till litetime's end,
And on judgment day, if I take the way where the righteous stay,

If my dog is barred by the Heavenly guard, we’ll both of us have to pray.

 

 

 

 

 

 

It’s Molting Time for Birds

NORMA M.

THE old school-book poem, telling us

of “melancholy days,” comes often
to mind every autumn. In the northern
parts of this continent that saddest time
of the year is rapidly approaching.

Why do the birds seem to sing less
at this time of the year? Well, this is
no imaginary conclusion. They actually
do sing much less. They are molting
and no longer feel the natural urge to
sing. Their gaiety of spirits and cheery
manners give place to a period of dump-
ishness. Autumn is coming fast and the
gaudy spring apparel of many birds
changes now to a more somber hue.

When the song of birds is at its best,
all of nature is humming with activity.
Trees are bursting into leaf and our
gardens working overtime to proﬁt and
delight us.

Until the middle of July most birds
seem to be fairly bursting with song.
There seems to be some important rela-
tionship between their singing time and
the mating instinct. But as the hot, dry
weather rushes along, the birds seem to
lag and grow tired of singing so much.

Some birds as, for instance, the song
sparrow, sing during every month of the
year, except for the forepart of the
month of August. Even the wrens grow
silent, noisy as they are at other times
of the spring and summer. But the beau-
tiful little wild canary or goldﬁnch takes
the place of many other birds and sud-
denly he and his companions come in
waves of delight at this time.

In seeking an explanation for the rea-
son why birds molt at this season, natur-
alists tell us that a bird’s feathers seem
to be so constructed that once they be-
come mature, their pulpy quill tissue
either dries up or is absorbed through
the skin. And, apparently, in preparation

McGARRY

for the migratory ﬂight with its accom-~

panying strain, the frayed and worn
feathers are replaced by a brand—new
coat.

Many song birds molt both in spring

and fall. Hawks are thought to molt dur-
ing the winter, while eagles appear to
molt gradually over the whole year.
Geese have a distressing time at molt-
ing, losing all their pinions at once. They
cannot ﬂy at such times and must per-
force await their new feathers. A visit
to the Zoo on August 24 revealed four
peacocks in a sorry condition, their beau-
tiful tail-feathers were almost gone. The
birds were looking very subdued. Were
they quite aware of the fact that they
didn’t look up to par?

Another evidence of the marvelous
provision that Nature makes in looking
after her own lies in the fact that birds
molt gradually. Very few birds are ever
left entirely bare. Yet some are so com--
pletely shorn of their strong feathers:
that they go into hiding until the new
ones appear. Without feathers they are-
completely defenseless and their enemies-
would ﬁnd them quite easily. But Na»
ture looks after them in her usual effici—
ent manner. Just as snakes cast their-
skins, crabs and other shell-ﬁsh cast:
their shells, horses grow longer coats:
of hair in winter, as well as cats and
dogs, so also the birds grow new coats of’
feathers to meet their needs which».
change as the months go by.

Naturalists maintain there are at least
eleven species of birds in the United
States now threatened with extinction.
They are: the bald eagle, California con-
dor, sage grouse, sand-hill crane, Ross’
goose, greater snow goose, Attwater’s
prairie chicken, and four species of kites.

 

 

\1’_____x .

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 172

    
   

     
   
 

GOD,
PEACE ON EARTH,
KINDNESS, JUSTICE 0
AND MERCY TO
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

7
g
m
'2';

 

    

Founded by Geo. T. Angell Incorporated 1889

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Officers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY& STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President and Ch. Fi-
nance Com., United Shoe Machinery Corporation

CHARLES E. SPENCER, JR., President, First National
Bank of Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

E. J. H. Escobar ,,,,,,,,,,,,,, Colombia
Luis Pareja Cornejo ,,,,,,,,,,,, Ecuador
Charles A. Williams ,,,,,,,,,,,, France
Leonard T. Hawksley ,,,,,,,,,, Italy

8- C. Batra .................. India
Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe ,,,,,,,, Japan
Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ,,,,,, Madeira
Dr. A. T. Ishkanian ,,,,,,,,,,,, Mexico
Mrs. Alice W. Manning ,,,,,,,, Turkey

Humane Press Bureau

Katharine H. Piper, Secretary

180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Field workers of the Society
Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Chicago, Illinois
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, South Carolina
Rev. R. E. Grifﬁth, De Land, Florida

Field Representative
Dr. Wm. F. H. Wentzel, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Field Lecturer in Massachusetts
Ella A. Maryott

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF FIELD
WORKERS FOR JULY, 1941

Number of Bands of Mercy formed, 13
Number of addresses made, 116
Number of persons in audiences, 18,789

Fund for Retired Workers

WE are receiving gifts to the Ameri-

can Humane Education Society as a
trust fund, the interest to be used for the
beneﬁt of ﬁeld missionaries and others who
have spent their lives in promoting humane
education. Already several cases have come
to our attention and are being relieved in
this way. We will welcome your contribu-
tion to this fund.

Please make checks payable to Albert A.
Pollard, Treasurer, American Humane Edu-
cation Society, 180 Longwood Avenue, Bos-
ton, and specify that the amount con-
tributed is for the Humane Education
Trust Fund.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

We Should Pity Animals

THE composition which follows was

written by Rizcallah A. Sagr, a
pupil in the National Episcopal Second-
ary School at Bassa, Palestine. It was
written at the request of Mr. Barakat
Bishara, a representative of the S. P.
C. A. who spoke on kindness to animals
in the school. “I am,” says the writer,
“indebted to him for my knowledge
about your S. P. C. A. He spoke to all
the students about it, and its uses.” We
were glad to send to Mr. Bishara, for
distribution in this school, literature,
buttons and badges. The essay, which
we print almost in the exact language as
it came to us, was in unusually clear
handwriting and seems quite remarkable
for a foreign pupil in a secondary school.

How haughty man is, who saw him-
self distinguished from other creatures
by his mind and speaking power so he
thought that other beings were doomed
to suffer a hard and painful life under
man’s mercy and servitude.

How harsh man is, who thinks him-
self the only creature which suffers
when pained, which is tired after much
work and fatigue, the only creature to
be affected by meagre and bad food.

He imputes all pains and sufferings
to himself, forgetting that animals are
as sensible creatures as he is. He ill-
treats them, torments them and some-
times kills them, doing that to satisfy
his brute character without having any
pity for any animal.

He forgets that by tormenting ani-
mals he lowers himself to their brutish
grade while they become the suffering
heroes of this worldly play!

Man forgets that he is himself an ani-
mal and that animals are as he is—mem—
bers in the society of life and of the
whole world!

Then, dear brother man, why don’t
you pity animals? They are your com-
panions in this hard life, and they are
your right hand aids in all your at-
tempts!

They help and assist you in your
work, not having a prize for their obedi-
ence to your severe rules except bad and
poisonous strokes which traverse their
hearts, which bleed innocently from
your unpardonable ingratitude!

We must be kind to animals! We must
pity them! They are our friends, our
most faithful companions in our need.
They help us to live, and is it not a
shame to illtreat those who are our
strongest aids in our life?

Franklin’s gull is the only bird hav-
ing a monument erected to it. This was
done to commemorate the bird’s services
in the destruction of grasshoppers in
the state of Utah.

Sept. 1941

Veterinary Column

1. Question: I have a male Boston
terrier about ﬁve months old. Almost
every morning he vomits after being
fed. His diet consists of milk and stale
dark bread in the morning; meat, raw
and cooked, at noon; and meat or broth
with bread at night. He seems to take
care of his noon and night meals with-
out vomiting. Is this condition due to
worms?

Answer: This trouble is probably not
due to worms. Boston terriers will often
vomit after being fed milk. It seems to
be an idiosyncrasy of the breed, that
some members are allergic to this food.
You might try scalding the milk prior
to feeding, using diluted canned milk, or,
as a ﬁnal measure, eliminating it from
the dog’s diet.

2. Question: Should a puppy have cod
liver oil during the winter months?

Answer: Growing puppies should have
a rich supply of Vitamin D (the active
principle in cod liver oil) during their
early growth period, whether in winter
or summer. Some breeds require more
Vitamin D than others, so you should
consult your veterinarian before using
cod liver oil, and determine the amount
to give the dog. Some of the newer vita-
min concentrates are more practical to
use than cod liver oil. Probably the dog
will also need some mineral supplement
along with the vitamin therapy.

3. Question: I wish to have my cat
spayed. She is ﬁve months old, and in
god health. Is this operation danger-
ous?

Answer: There is always danger in
any surgical venture requiring anes-
thesia. This risk is minimized by mod-
ern veterinary procedures, and the num—
ber of deaths from anesthesia in young
healthy animals is very low. You should
have no more fear of your cat’s life in
the hands of a competent veterinarian

than you have for your own life in your
dentist’s chair.

4. Question: During the summer va-
cation we took our cat to the country.
While there, the cat was out of doors
during the day and his long fur became
thoroughly matted. These mats defy
combing, what can be done?

Answer: In trying to comb out matted
fur or to clip it from a cat, the pain en-
tailed renders the situation practically
hopeless unless anesthesia is employed.
The most humane method to free the
animal from these mats is to take him
to your veterinarian who will probably
administer an anesthetic and painlessly
clip the mats away. This of course leaves
ugly bare areas of skin; however, the
hair will grow in again in a few weeks"
time.

L. H. S., Veterinary Dept,

Angel] Animal Hospital

 

 

 

 

 

 

m"
,___.—.‘,

 




 

 

 

 

Page 178

@112 Ilium nf ﬂint}; nr

Iﬂuninr iiiumanr Erasure

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President
GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary
E. A. MARYOTT, State Organizer

PLEDGE

I will try to be kind to all living crea-
tures and try to protect them from
cruel usage.

The American Humane Education So—
ciety will send to every person who forms
a Band of Mercy of thirty members, and
sends the name chosen for the Band and the
name and post-ofﬁce address of the presi-
dent who has been duly elected, special
Band of Mercy literature and a gilt badge
for the president. See inside front cover
for prices of literature and Band of Mercy
Supplies.

NEW BANDS OF MERCY

Thirteen new Bands of Mercy were
reported during July; twelve in Virginia
and one in North Carolina.

Total number Bands of Mercy organ—
ized by Parent American Society,
259,463.

An ant is ten times stronger than an
elephant in proportion to its size. A
load twenty times its own weight can be
carried by an ant, while an elephant
can barely drag twice his weight.

Quail roost on the ground forming a
circle with their bodies pressed closely
together. This formation gives a maxi-
mum of warmth and protection. When
disturbed they can ﬂy instantly without
confusion.

 

“NIPPY,” FIFTEEN-POUND ALLEY CAT
Prize-winning photograph (See page 164)

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Squirrels to the Rescue
C A T H R I N E B A R R

HE little gray squirrels that s-camper

up and down our telephone wires
have done us a real service. One particu-
larly capable looking chap led the pro—
ject, and his dozens of cousins were on
the job with him.

They carried on the work in the large
oak tree standing in our front yard. A
number of years ago this oak tree began
suffering from a strange disease. Swell,-
ings and bumps the size of a walnut
formed on many of its smaller branches.
and these sections of the tree began to
die off.

This trouble progressed slowly at
ﬁrst, but ﬁnally it became quite serious.
Yet no one seemed to know what the
trouble was or what to do about it. Then
one day, on examining a branch all cov—
ered with these bumps, I noticed a hole
in it. So I got a hammer and cracked it
open. The ﬁrm hard swelling was tough
but several blows did the trick. And
there inside were a number of chambers,
and in each chamber was what looked
like a small wasp.

We then learned from the Department
of Agriculture that the tree was the
victim of gall-wasps, a rare thing, ap-
parently, especially in New England.
The only suggestion was that we prune
the affected parts, almost an impossible
job. But we tried it for a couple of
years, until last year we were unable to
do it.

Early in the summer, last year, as I
sat on the porch I heard a great chat-
tering and scolding in our oak tree. I
looked and saw things fall-
ing out of it. An army of
sqiurrels was having a pic-
nic. True e n o u g h, these
swellings looked quite like
nuts along the branches.
And they might have tasted
like nuts, or maybe they
were even better. Anyhow,
I do know that the squirrels
ate them. They feasted all
summer. '

I used to watch them.
With their sharp little teeth
they’d cut off a branch full
of bumps, cut off the leafy
part, then holding the rest
like an ear of corn they
would go after the bugs. The
co'bs were tossed on the
ground, and new branches
were cut off for eating.

Every day I’d go out with
a bushel basket and clean up
after the squirrels. Along
about the end of the sum-
mer I felt I’d picked up
most of the oak tree, basket
by basket. After the job was

Sept. 1941

Lovely Little Things
C | a r a R a d e r

Every year, each season brings

So many lovely little things——
Blossoms on the orchard trees,
Bright-hued birds, bronze-winged bees,
Silver leaves and blades of grass,
Changing hues as seasons pass,
Rambling roses, pansy faces,

Scarlet sumac, Queen Anne's laces,
Snow stars like white butterflies
Fluttering down from winter skies.
Oh, I could never name them all!
Summer, winter, spring, and tall,
Each in turn, without fail brings
God’s many lovely little things.

 

done the squirrels left. They are no—
where to be seen this summer, but as I
look at the oak tree, quite free from is
trouble, I note what a ﬁne job that
clean-up squad did. Yes, wise old Mother
Nature called on the right department
when she sent out her force of little
gray squirrels.

Kindness in Primary School

From M. L. Scarlette, principal of the
Washington Primary school in Greens-
boro, North Carolina, comes this ﬁne re--
port of the Sarah J. Eddy Kindness to
Animals Clubs: . , .

I wish to express appreciation for Our
Dumb Animals.

Our school has an enrollment of 540
children, average age, eight years. There
are Kindness to Animals Clubs in each
classroom. We always observe Be Kind
to Animals Week, during which time the
children publish a special kindness to.
animals edition of the school newspaper.
Children from the Library Club selected.
suitable books from the library to be.
used in reading clubs, etc., at this time.

During the year children have been
interested in studying such subjects as.
bird and animal migration and animal
homes, as well as caring for homeless.
pets coming on school grounds. The
Brownie Scouts have enjoyed making
kindness to animals scrapbooks.

M. L. SCARLETTE, Principal

Congratulations to the Salem Animal
Rescue League for its splendid annual
report! Its president, Miss Anna Fes—-
senden, and her loyal assistants are
worthy of the unlimited conﬁdence and.
help of the people in her section of the
State.

She says in her report that, as the-
Animal Rescue League has no prosecu—.
ting power, all cases of cruelty reported
are passed over to F. T. Vickers, Essex:
County agent of the Massachusetts So--
ciety for the Prevention of Cruelty to.-
Animals, and “they are always met ef~--
ﬁciently and promptly.”

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 174

“Lady Maude”

H U G H L Y O N S
THE oldest horse now living in the

United States, it is believed, “Lady

Maude,” is now 43 years old.

She was bitten on the tongue recently
while grazing in her pasture. She laid
in the pasture two days without food
or water, her tongue swollen and purple.
Her eighty-two-year-old caretaker said
she was well on the mend and up and
around again and going strong on the
feed bag. This horse was shipped to
Pinewood, South Carolina, in 1898.

You perhaps never heard of her or
read about Lady Maude in story books
or on the race track. She never drew the
roar of the crowds from the ﬂag-decked
arena of the horse shows. This beauti—
ful young colt attracted the attention of
the countryside upon her arrival in
Pinewood. The local livery man decided
to raffle her off at a dollar a chance to
the amount of $200. A young Negro lad
drew the lucky number and claimed the
horse. A wealthy citizen took a liking to
the animal and purchased her from the
lad. Soon she gave birth to a colt.

Lady Maude turned out to be a won-
derful saddle-horse and the pride of her
master. Miss M. Corbett, who is now the
owner of Lady Maude, purchased her
thirty years ago for $180. Aside from
having reached this distinguished old
age, Maude carried the U. S. Mail over
the R. F. D. for many years before the
use of automobiles in these parts.

She is in very good condition, despite
her age. She is neither blind, deaf nor
lame, and eats corn off the cob and all
the hay and feed that is given her. She
is now retired, having served her mas—
ter well, and seems to enjoy her life of
ease on the farm with her only compan-
ion, a shaggy dog, “Snooky,” who

watches over her day and night.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS
The Horse Then and Now

NINA L

HE history of the horse is as old
[I as the history of man; in fact
much older, for fossils of an early
species have been found which go back
to prehistoric ages. This earliest known
progenitor of the horse was no larger
than a cat or small dog, and possessed
four toes instead of a hoof. In the esti-
mated six million years which have
elapsed since this diminutive horse, or
thippus, as scientists have named it,
existed, the animal has made two im-
portant changes. It has increased in
size, and it has exchanged its four toes
for one, or a hoof as we call it. This evo-
lution of the foot came about as a neces-
sity as the animal grew heavier, the hoof
bearing its increased weight better than
separate toes, and also facilitating speed.
These prehistoric horses lived in Asia
and North and South America. In Asia
they continued on down to the present-
day wild horses found along the Chinese-
Russian border, but in the Americas
they became extinct. Horses were un-
known in the United States until intro-
duced by the early explorers, some of
whom left their animals behind when
they returned to Spain. Turned loose to
shift for themselves, these horses found
no trouble in ﬁnding ample forage in our
then virgin expanses of country, and
their progeny became the “wild horse”
of America, which the Indians caught,
tamed and put to hard use.

The present day wild horses of Asia
are called “tarpans,” and great bands of
them exist in various parts of Asia.
Some of them have become mixed with
the domestic stock, and in such bands a
variety of color exists, but the true wild
horse is of a tannish—gray hue.

These are smaller than the domestic
horse, and have big heads and thick

 

 

Sept. 19.411

. BUTLER

necks, the mane being dark, short and

upright. In winter their hair grows

long and shaggy, which is nature’s kind
protection against the cold Winds of the

Mongolian steppes.

With the advent of the motor age,
it was prophesied by some that the horse
would again become extinct, or nearly so.
And for a short time this looked dan-
gerously near to coming true, as tractors
replaced the horse on the farm, and
trucks took over the business of deliver-
ing ice, laundry, and what-not in the
towns. Today, the city child stops in his
play to stare with interest and curiosity
when, on rare occasions, a junk or rag
peddler drives down the street in a
horse—drawn vehicle.

However, in spite of the motor-car,
the horse is still with us and is far
from becoming extinct. On the whole, it
has been elevated from its former posi-
tion as a mere beast of burden, and polo
ponies, ﬁne saddle-horses and racers,
have never been more popular than they
are today.

With the present day Defense pro-
gram under way, the horse has been re-
cruited into the Army. Thousands of
them have been taken over by the Cav-
alry centers at Fort Riley, Kansas; Fort
Royal, Virginia; Fort Reno, Oklahoma;
and Fort Robinson, Nebraska. The ani-
mals are given a thorough physical ex-
amination, and inoculated against dis-
eases. An army horse must be able to
carry a soldier and his pack with a com-
bined weight of approximately 250
pounds, for an average distance of thirty
miles a day or more.

When the Army meets with bad roads.
mud, marsh and mountains, there is al-
ways a hurry-up call for horses, W110,
with sturdy backs and intelligent obey-
ing of commands, pull supply trains and
pack artillery safely through where mo-
torized vehicles bog down.

Having proved its worth. to mankind
in so many ways, it is not likely that the

horse is in any danger of ever becoming
extinct.

Birds and animals have considerable
sickness in the Wild state. They suffer
greatly from disease and sickness and
their troubles are increased in captivity
because they are susceptible to many
domestic ailments. Factors affecting the
health of wild creatures are fungi, para-
sites, bacteria, Viruses, and protozoa.

God can be loved through the love we
show His works, and God can be served
through the service we render to the
humblest and most helpless of His living
creatures.

FR. A. ROCHE

 

 

 

 




 

 

Dec.1941 ‘ OUR DUMB ANIMALS Page235

\" "i‘U‘V-Ju.
‘\\\\")'I, .". ~ '
. -3 I,‘

 

 
   
 

.51.. .
it. [ti/“1';
ax "ax '
E :f: \,

gﬁL

  
  

     

 

 

 

11111 11‘

Backyard Christmas Tree
LOUISE DARCY

I’d like to give a party

For the animals this year,
With nuts for all the squirrels
And apples for the deer;
Blueberries for the partridge,
And lots of other things

For friendly woodland creatures
With fur and feathered wings.
I know I can’t feed all of them;
But actions outdo words—

I’ll decorate with suet strings
My Christmas tree for birds.

N

 

 

 

 

 

 

mZéZ-lx
4:0"er
I—OJJJ>Z
30200004

P
A
0 K
u R
E E
T D

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

How Many “B” Birds?

ALFRED I. TOOKE

A NUMBER of birds have names beginning with the
letter “B.” There are boatbill, buﬂ‘lehead, bullﬁnch,
for example. See how many “B” bird names you can
spell out in the diagram, moving one square at a time,
but not using the same square twice in any one name.
If you do not get ten or more, see the answers on this
page next month. '
And which are the happiest, truly
It would be hard to tell;
The sparrows, who share in the Christmas cheer,
Or the children who love them well!
CELIA THAXTER

 
         
 
  
       
  

    
  

    
   

    

    

       
 

 
 
 

$1". 9., . ' . " ﬂ . .- y ;
. , .1. mgﬁr 707
d‘k‘; ‘ . .‘.\\‘.z‘§:l.. 5; ~ 2’ . . . .:._._. ,
“ “' ‘ ‘4 3“.“ ”him—"'59: .?\\\l . ‘ /(
. .. \|'_:'" é;- ’ " ‘ x" j. -“'I fl"! l 4 I
~ gefgl‘ég a; ‘ '. . 123;“ =. -.i. 3’2 ' ' 2 (Al
'5' . , .4 -. ’r"“\\ ,- ‘,-
é§§ﬁ$m_. n .. S 1505-" ~v . '~ "ng’LUMI‘a 31...: ‘-

 

WONDE’RING WHAT SANTA CLAUS WILL BRING

 

A Bird Table

FRED CORNELIUS

DO you want to do something nice for the birds? Of
course you do, and here is an easy way to do it. It.
will not cost a penny, either.

In almost every home there is an old tin plate or a shal-
low pan that is no longer in use. Find one of these and nail
it on top of a post or in the fork of a tree. Then put grain
or bread crumbs in it and watch the birds ﬂock to it for
their dinner.

At ﬁrst they may be afraid of it and not come for a few
days, but sooner or later, one Wise old bird will ﬁnd it.
and from then on the other birds will come with him to
your table every time you put in feed.

You will get a lot of fun watching the birds eat the
crumbs on cold winter days, and you will have the satis-
faction of knowing that you may be keeping many of
them from starving in the coldest weather.

Joy of Giving

For somehow not only at Christmas,
But all the long year through,
T he joy that you give to others
Is the joy that comes back to you.
And the more you spend in helping
The poor and lonely and sad,

he more your heart’s possessing
Returns to make you glad.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
 
   
 

  

GOD,
PEACE ON EARTH,
KINDNEss, JUSTICE
AND MERCY TO
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

7
3-
m
2

    
    

Founded by Geo. T. Angel] Incorporated 1889

For rates of membership in both of our Societies
see back cover. Checks should be made payable to
Treasurer.

Officers of the American Humane Education Society
180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President

ALBERT A. POLLARD, Treasurer

GUY RICHARDSON, Secretary

PEABODY, BROWN, ROWLEY & STOREY, Counsel

Trustees of Permanent Funds

JOHN R. MACOMBER, Chairman of the Board, First
Boston Corporation

CHARLES G. BANCROFT, Vice-President and Ch. Fi-
nance Com., United Shoe Machinery Corporation

CHARLES E. SPENCER, JR., President, First National
Bank of Boston

Foreign Corresponding Representatives

E. J. H. Escobar .............. Colombia
Luis Pareja Cornejo ,,,,,,,,,,,, Ecuador
Charles A. Williams ,,,,,,,,,,,, France ,
Leonard T. Hawksley ,,,,,,,,,, Italy

S. C. Batra .................. India
Mrs. Mary P. E. Nitobe ,,,,,,,, Japan
Mrs. Marie C. E. Houghton ,,,,,, Madeira
Dr. A. T. Ishkanian ,,,,,,,,,,,, Mexico
Mrs. Alice W. Manning ,,,,,,,, Turkey

Humane Press Bureau
Katharine H. Piper, Secretary
180 Longwood Ave., Boston

Field Workers of the Society
Mrs. Alice L. Park, Palo Alto, California
Mrs. James D. Burton, Harriman, Tennessee
Mrs. Katherine Weathersbee, Atlanta, Georgia
Rev. F. Rivers Barnwell, Fort Worth, Texas
Rev. John W. Lemon, Ark, Virginia
Miss Lucia F. Gilbert, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Jennie R. Toomim, Lubbock, Texas
Seymour Carroll, Columbia, South Carolina
Rev. R. E. Griﬂ‘ith, De Land, Florida

Field Representative
Dr. Wm. F. H. Wentzel, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF FIELD
WORKERS FOR OCTOBER, 1941

Number of Bands of Mercy formed, 404
Number of addresses made, 354
Number of persons in audiences, 48,848

For Retired Workers

E are receiving gifts to the Ameri-

can Humane Education Society as a
trust fund, the interest to be used for the
beneﬁt of ﬁeld missionaries and others who
have spent their lives in promoting humane
education. Already several cases have come
to our attention and are being relieved in
this way. We will welcome your contribu-
tion to this fund.

Please make checks payable to Albert A.
Pollard, Treasurer, American Humane Edu-
cation Society, 180 Longwood Avenue, Bos-
ton, and specify that the amount con-
tributed is for the Humane Education
Trust Fund.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

Chicago and the Rodeo

HICAGO seems to be a popular cen-

ter for What the public knows as the
rodeo. One was held August 31, 1941,
when an enraged Brahma bull escaped
from Soldier’s Field Rodeo and Thrill
Show and gravely injured three per-
sons before it was shot and killed (in
public). The Flying X Rodeo closed at
the Coliseum October 12, after a two-
week showing. Yet a third rodeo opened
at the Stadium from October 17 to No-
vember 2. Surely, three rodeos in two
months is too much rodeo even for Chi-
cago.

It is a matter of deep regret to many
that the British War Relief Society chose
to sponsor the affair at the Stadium to
raise money for British War Relief, par-
ticularly when our British cousins turned
“thumbs down” on the Tex Austin Show
at Wembley, London, England.

On October 9 the Chicago Humane
Education Society passed the following
resolution:

WHEREAS, Chicago is being overrun
with rodeo and rodeo features given for
proﬁt or philanthropic causes, and
WHEREAS, the Humane Laws of Illi-
nois as written in the Criminal Code are
being broken by performers in said
rodeos, with possible danger to human
life as well as torture and injury to
animals.

THEREFORE, Be it resolved by the
Chicago Humane Education Society,
Inc., in meeting assembled October 9,
1941, that the rodeo is an infringement
of the Ilinois State Law, a menace to
human and animal life, and should be
abolished. This same resolution was
unanimously adopted October 10 by the
Chicago and Cook County Federation of
Women’s Organizations, with a member-
ship of 60,000.

A rodeo without the Violation of some
state law relative to the prevention of
cruelty to animals is a very tame affair.
The fact that officers of Humane So-
cieties have to be present to protect the
animals and to prevent such exhibitions
of cruelty tells the story.

It’s the Law!

The Christian Science Monitor is au-
thority for the following citation:

Kansas: Section 21-2426, Revised Stat-
utes: “It shall be unlawful for any per—
son to exhibit in a public way within the
State of Kansas, any sort of an exhibit
that consists of the eating or pretending
to eat of snakes, lizards, scorpions, cen-
tipedes, tarantulas, or other reptiles.”

Please remember the American Hu-
mane Education Society, Boston, Mass.,
when making your will.

Dec. 1941

A Lobster Dinner

T a dinner held recently in Maine,
attended by the Governor of the State
and a score of leading local citizens,
fresh lobsters were served as the main
dish. N 0W, here is the remarkable thing:
They were cooked by the method ad-
vocated by the Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Ani-
mals — that is, they were placed in
lukewarm water in which they were
quickly and, without any possibility of
suffering, asphyxiated; then broiled.
The manager of the hotel said that he
was greatly pleased with the method,
that he had been utterly unable to re-
main in the kitchen when lobsters had
been cooked in the old way by being
thrown into boiling water, and he thor-
oughly approved of this later and better
method. True the lobster’s organism
may be of a very low order but can
anyone say it has no capacity for pain
even for a moment?

The Fate of “Teddy”

The press of the country has called
attention to the cruel way in which a
famous elephant by the name of “Teddy,”
known as the work elephant at the State
Fair in Raleigh, North Carolina, was
ﬁnally destroyed. There is no need for
us to give the details here —— they are too
distressing. The authorities, instead of
ﬁrst learning the one and only proper
way to put an elephant to sleep hu-
manely, simply turned a number of men
with riﬂes upon the unfortunate animal.

When such a great creature has to
be put to sleep, one bullet passing
through one of the eyes to the opposite
temple, drops it immediately and death
is instantaneous.

You may well believe that the publicity
given to this will make it impossible for
such a thing to occur again throughout
the entire country.

Report of Fez Fondouk

Here is the report of the American
Fondouk at Fez, Morocco, for August,
1941:

Daily average large animals: 8.6.

Animals put to sleep: 1.

Entries, 51: 1 horse, 6 mules, 44 donkeys.

Exits, 43: 1 horse, 5 mules, 37 donkeys.

Out-patients, 480: 98 horses, 50 mules, 329 donkeys,
3 dogs.

Fondouks visited ........................ 303
Animals inspected ...................... 5869
Animals treated ........................ 533
Animals sent to Hospital ................ 87
Pack-saddles (infected) destroyed .......... 3
Arab bits destroyed .................... 3
Animals sent by Police Dept. .............. 11

The amount of our expenses for Au-
gust was $194.92.

Very sincerely yours,
G. DELON, Superintendent

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

0 1. ANGELL m 1

u U. S.Trade Mark, RegiStered \

YEARSED

868.AND FOR FORTy.ONE

The Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Crueltyto Animals

The American Humane Education Society

The American Band of Mercy

I would not enter on my list of friends,

Though graced with polished manners and ﬁne sense,

Yet wanting sensibility, the man
Who needlessly sets foot upon a worm.
-—-COWPER

GLo’nv To
GOD,
PEACE on EARTH,

AND Mencv To
EVERY LIVING
CREATURE.

 

Published monthly by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 46 Central Street, Norwood, Massachusetts

Entered as second-class matter, June 29, 1917, at the Post Ofﬁce at Norwood, Mass., under the Act 'of March 3, 1879
Acceptance for mailing at spec1al rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized, July 13, 1919

Boston Ofﬁce, 180 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Mass.

Vol. 74

One of nature’s strange insects is the
praying mantis. Useful as she is in
destroying many injurious insects, alas
for the male of her sex who falls in love
with her, their honeymoon is brief—she
kills him the day they are married.

Another military secret is the method
by which carrier pigeons are taught to
leave one home and ﬂy to another, and
yet these message-bearing birds are now
being taught to leave “from an outﬁt in
the ﬁeld to headquarters and in a re-
markably short time return with the
needed answer.”

The British War ofﬁce has had offers
of over 7,000 dogs for army purposes,
and says that no more at present are
needed. The Royal S. P. C. A. in London
has received deﬁnite assurance from the
War Ofﬁce that no such animals would
be used for any experimental purposes,
either for vivisection or poison gas.

How natural to the ordinary human it
is to kill a spider, and yet we are told
by those who know, that spiders are of
very great value to man, only a very few
of them being capable of doing him any
harm. As a rule they are the chief
hunters and consumers of widely injuri-
ous insects that, left alone, would de-
stroy all vegetation in a short time.

More and more come the warnings of
the self-denials and sacriﬁces we are all
to make before this suicidal war is over.
These sacriﬁces and self-denials would
be far more easily borne if we knew
the reckless waste of the money we pay
in taxes was stopped. How many millions
of the billions we send to Washington
could be saved if only politics and graft
were ruthlessly cut out of every deal!

November, 1941

Johns Hopkins Universitv,
Dr. Harvey Cushing, and a Dog

T isn’t often that one of the leading
surgeons of the world is asked to
treat someone’s pet dog or is Willing,
even, to grant the request, but here is
an interesting story:

Way back in 1908 Mrs. David Nevins
of Methuen, Massachusetts, who gave to
the Massachusetts Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals her beau—
tiful 150-acre farm in that town—the
farm now known as the Nevins Rest
Farm for Horses—sent her “little pet
Molly” to Johns Hopkins University to
see if Dr. Cush'ing could tell her the
cause of its sickness.

There has recently been found among
the correspondence of Mrs. Nevins, who
died some years ago, the following letter
from Dr. Harvey Cushing, in his day
recognized as probably the leading brain
surgeon of his time, and widely known
not only through the medical profession
but the wide reading public of this and
other countries as the author of the
biography of Sir William Osler:

My dear Mrs. N evins: '

I have asked Dr. Emerson to give me
your address in order that I might write
you a few words concerning the sad end—
ing of your little pet Molly, for I can
well understand what a grief it must
have been to you to lose her, knowing
what a great pet she has been.

I think that it was largely a matter
of age and partly due to an advancing
change in the valves of the heart that
she did not take her anaesthesia sufﬁci-
ently well to let her come through what
proved to be a very serious operation.
We found the abdominal cavity simply
packed with masses of fatty new growth,

No. 1i

and indeed the abdominal walls them-
selves were so inﬁltrated with this new
tissue that I very much doubt Whether
the wound would have healed even had
we been able to complete the intra-
abdominal operation and close the ab-
dominal wall. The fatty growths had
encroached upon the bladder to such an
extent that there was a marked obstruc-
tion and great distention, and I doubt
not that it would have been but a few
weeks before this would have led to
serious and fatal changes in the kidneys.

It surely, however, will be a comfort
to you to know that you have done every-
thing possible to perhaps give her a new
tenure of life and also to know that if
she had to die she did so in the easiest
possible way, namely, under an anaes—
thetic.

I am exceedingly sorry not to have
been able to send her back to you cured
of her trouble, and write this letter to
assure you of my interest and of my
deep sympathy.

Very sincerely yours,
(Signed) HARVEY CUSHING

This unusual letter will be preserved
among the archives of our Society.

In a report of an attack by English
bombers on Cologne, one of the return-
ing airmen said, “Over Holland we ﬂew
into a host of sea gulls, and some air-
craft brought specimens stuck in their
engine cowling. One of our aircraft
came back with them inside of it, all of
them dead.” So, not only the beasts of
the ﬁeld but the birds of the air—how
many of them we shall never know—are
the victims of war.

Humane Sunday; April 19, 1942: Be
Kind to Animals Week, April 20—25.

 




 

 

 

 

 

Page. 206

Bridging the Stream
ALBERT FESSENDEN PETERSON

WO long lines of hurrying ants, com-

ing and going, ﬁled across one of
the paths in a California garden. Some-
body had left the hose faucet leaking,
and along came a stream of trickling
water cutting directly across the ant
trail.

Instantly there was consternation.
Groups of agitated ants were constantly
increased by more arrivals, gathered on
either side, where they were held up by
the running water. The little stream soon
carved a narrow bed for itself in the soft
loam, making well-deﬁned banks like a
miniature canyon.

The ants ran distractedly back and
forth apparently trying to solve the prob—
lem of crossing it. A group of them
found a stout straw. Seizing it in their
mandibles they lugged it between them
to one side of the bank. Did they push
it out to be carried down stream? They
did not. They up-ended it, getting around
it in a semi-circle, as linemen raise a
telegraph pole, holding it in their jaws
together and standing it up in the air
at the edge of the bank.

The straw was then dropped across
the stream, bridging it perfectly from
bank to bank. Two or three ants ran
across, apparently to test its safety, and
soon trafﬁc was resumed, two lines of
ants, one coming and one going.

Johnny Jon-es: “Dad, what is the dif-
ference between a cat and a comma?”

Elder Jones: “I don’t know; what is
it, J ohnny?”

Johnny: “A cat has claws at the end
of its paws, while a comma is a pause
at the end of the clause.”

Please remember. the Massachusetts
S. P. C. A when making your will.

   
   

ROCKY MOUNTAIN SHEEP ON MOUNTAIN SLOPE NEAR TOWN OF

OUR ’DUMB ANIMALS

Nov. 191,1

Wild Life in Jasper National Park

JAMES MONTAGNES

ILD life abounds within the
W conﬁnes of Jasper National

Park, in Alberta province. The
5,380 square miles of mountain, lake and
valley, are the natural playground of
every type of land, water and bird life
to be found in the northern section of
the continent. Once one of the greatest
fur trading areas, where the Indian and
the white man alike shot wild life to
practically the extinction of every known
species for the big fur companies who
controlled the area, Jasper National
Park is now the home of thousands of
animals classed as big game. Since ﬁrst
the park site was laid out and placed
under government supervision about
thirty years ago, animals have moved
into its boundaries. The result has been
an increase in animal life in huge pro-
portions.

An idea of the vastness of the herds
to be found in the park can be gained
from the estimates of the supervising
game warden. Bears are estimated at be-
tween 3,000 and 4,000. Grizzlies are
abundant and roam the length of the
park. Elk are reported to number some
3,000. Deer total more than 20,000, and
moose are placed at approximately 8,000.
Sheep and goats are multiplying rapidly
under government care. There was a
time when Big Horn mountain goats
were nearly extinct on this continent.
Now they number some 4,000 to 5,000.
And mountain sheep come to about
18,000. There are about 8,000 caribou.
Beaver, marten, lynx and coyotes are re-
ported in big numbers. Beaver dams are
building on many creeks.

The advance of civilization does not
bother these animals. They go about
their life whether man is near or far
away. They ﬁnd in fact a convenience

JASPER IN JASPER NATIONAL PARK, ALBERTA

in the roads that men have built through
the park. Sheep, deer and bear use the
motor roads as do the thousands of cars
which visit the playground each summer.
Not a day goes by but wild life can be
seen from the town in large variety. The
bears even come every evening to the
refuse ground of Jasper by the dozens
to pick over the food and papers, their
natural curiosity demanding that they
investigate what is thrown away. Deer
come around the backdoors of the houses
and buildings of the town, not at all
afraid of encountering mankind.

The big game animals which inhabit
Jasper National Park are not all to be
found around the town, however. They
make their home among the slopes of
the mountains, especially late in the sum-
mer when the mosquito and black ﬂy
become bothersome. Then goats and
sheep will be seen several thousand feet
up the mountain slopes, sometimes along
the snow line, making their way if need
be over glaciers to get away from the
ﬂies.

One factor which largely accounts
for the abundance of big game in the
park is that it is practically as Wild as
when the ﬁrst fur traders went into the
country. While there are motor roads,
they are only through part of the Park.
There are many trails which may be fol-
lowed on horseback or on foot. The
townsite itself has all the conveniences
of a modern city, but once it is left
behind this scenic and animal preserve is
so vast and untouched that one can tra-
vel for days within its boundaries With-
out once seeing another human being.

Protection from ﬁre of wild life as
well as human life within the Park has
been accomplished through an efﬁcient
service'of game wardens, Royal Can-
adian Mounted Police, and nearly 400
miles of telephone lines throughout the
park. Game warden cabins are placed
strategically, and a careful watch is kept
against shooting or trapping, no guns
or traps being allowed in the Park.

Fawns of white-tail deer are well pro--
tected by nature. The protective colora-
tion of white spots last until they are
from four to ﬁve months of age. In addi—
tion, they do not throw off scent during
this period.

Nature makes provision for the ﬁrst
few days of young ﬁsh by means of their
egg sac. Newly hatched fry live on the
nourishment from the egg food sac from
four to thirty days, depending on the
temperature and species. The young ﬁsh
must seek natural food after the absorp-
tion of the food sac is completed.

 




