 

 

January 1 958

BRANCH NEWS

(Where a/itnction is organized/or the raising of funds, we give,
wherever possible, the place where held, the type of function,
and the name of the organizer or organizers, followed by the
sum raised. The letters AM indicate annual meeting; they are
followed by the word branch, or the name of the auxiliary, and
an indication, where possible, of the person presiding and of
ofﬁcials presenting reports: other information is given as
necessary. )

 

Once unhappy and neglected, this cat was restored to
health by the kind attention of Mrs Duerdin-Dutton

Animals’ Help Society AM. (Branch). Mrs Longman,
Council Member and Branch Chairman presided. Mr A.
Joiner was the speaker. Mrs Tait, Council Member, was
present. '
Ashton, Stalybridge, Mossley, Hyde, Glossop and District
AM (Branch 1 The Mayor of Mossley presided. Speaker was
Mr Tolhurst. .
Berkshire—Newbury and District Winterbourne, Whist
Drive, Miss A. Baylis (aux hon sec), £4 10s. 6d.

Blackpool New Shovels Inn, collection (£59 for RSPCA)
presented by the Deputy Mayor (Councillor A. Ashworth).
Presentation of Landau Cup by Mr A. Warner (Chalrman)

to Mr Francis Rossi. Three other owners were presented with

merit badges.

Cambridgeshire Cambridge, Bring and Buy. Sale, Mrs C.
Bartlett, £31. Caldecott, Jumble Sale, Miss Sheppard,
£30 12s. 3d. Swavesey, Whist Drive, Mrs Jellmgs (aux hon
sec), £12 10s. .

Cardiff and District Cardiff, Bazaar, Mrs Richardson and
Mrs Newbury, opened by ‘Mrs Dale’. Well over £100.
Chester Chester, Coffee Party, Mrs Booth, £62. .
«Cirencester Fairford, Bring and Buy Sale, and Entertam-
ment, Mrs Farmer (aux hon sec), £35 105.

‘Crowborough, East Grinstead and District Mayﬁeld, Jumble
Sale, Mrs Batchelor (aux co hon sec), £43. Jarv1s Brook,
Jumble Sale, Mrs Abraham (aux hon sec), £11. Fletchlng,
Whist Drives, Mrs Jones (aux hon sec), £10. Uckﬁeld, Jum-
ble Sale, Mrs Durrant (aux hon sec), £43. Crescent School .of
Dancing Display, £21. Hadlow Down, Jumble Sale, MISS
.P0110ck (aux hon sec), £27 155.

Ealing and District Jumble Sale, Mrs Moss (branch hon
sec), £24 11s.

Essex—North-West Branch Jumble Sale, Mrs . Cooke,
Braintee (aux hon sec) and Mrs Cowan, The Hedlnghams
(aux hon see), £13 153. 6d. for clin1c funds. ,
Exeter, East and West Devon Okehampton, Jumble Sale,
Mrs F. E. Weaver (aux hon sec), £63 12s. . ‘
Gloucestershire—East and Cheltenham Moreton—ln-Marsh,
Jumble Sale, Mrs Baldwin (aux co hon sec), £9 18s.
‘Grimsby and District Cleethorpes, RSPCA annual pet
ShOW, Major C. Fitzwilliams (branch chalrman), show secre—

THE ANIMAL WORLD 11

tary Mrs H. Bainborough (branch hon sec), £8 15s. Grimsby,
Bridge Drive, Mrs Heeler, committee member, held at the
home of Mrs Duff, £39 1s. 3d.

Hampshire—South, and Portsmouth Concert, Mrs K.
Turner, Park Gate (aux hon sec), £45. Gosport, Concert,
Mrs F. W. Clark (aux hon sec), £30. All expenses borne by
Captain and Mrs W. P. Beale and the hon sec.

Isle of Wight Shanklin, Bazaar, Mrs Buxton (aux hon sec),
opened by W-Cdr H. Hillier. Those present included Mrs
Haigh (president), Lady Lloyd (chairman), Mrs G. Jesty,
(branch hon sec), £152 10s. 7d. in aid of the new Island Dogs’
Home.

Kent—~Ashf0rd and District Ashford, Jumble Sale, Mrs
Coles, £15 11s. '

Kent—Canterbury and District Canterbury, Dog Show,
£32 6s. 3d. proﬁt.

Kent—Isle of Thanet Birchington, Bring and Buy Sale,
Miss E. Denning (aux hon sec), £60 5s. 3d.
Kent—Mid-Maidstone and District Draw, £70.
Lincolnshire—South, and Grantham AM (Branch). The
Mayor of Grantham was in the Chair. Speaker was Major
Chapman. Collection and Bring and Buy Stall, Miss N.
Pim (co hon sec), £22.

Llangollen, Chirk and Glynceiriog and District Division
Llangollen, presentation of RSPCA’s framed certiﬁcate of
merit by Major R. S. Archer to Police-Sergeant Keith
Shierson for rescue efforts for a lamb trapped on a ledge in a
quarry.

Macclesﬁeld, South-East Cheshire and Buxton Whist Drive,
Miss Cragg, Mrs Bradley and Miss A. M. Wain (branch
hon sec), £18 2s. 6d.

Monmouthshire Newport, Christmas Fair, Mrs H. Pughe-
Evans (branch hon sec), £246 115. 6d. ‘Mrs Dale’ (Miss Ellis
Powell) was thanked by the Dean of Monmouth (Rev Ellis
Evans) for opening the Fair.

Montgomery AM (Branch). The speaker was W—Cmdr H.
Hillier.

Newcastle—upon-Tyne Low Fell, Coffee Morning and Bring
and Buy Sale, Mrs Watson (aux hon sec), £73. AM (Branch)
Mr A. D. Brown (branch chairman) presided.
Norfolk—Mid and Norwich Sheringham, Bring and Buy
Sale, Miss M. S. Buchanan (aux hon sec), £50.

North Tees Stockton—on-Tees, Coffee Morning and Sale of
Work, Mrs Kelly (branch co hon sec), and Ladies’ Section.
The Mayor and Mayoress, Alderman and Mrs Atkinson,
attended. £112.

Northamptonshire and District Towcester, Whist Drive, Mrs
Whitton (aux hon sec), £21 1s. 6d.

Pembrokeshire—Mid and North Fishguard, presentation of
RSPCA awards by Capt. A. S. Matthias (Branch President)

 

Mrs Pitt, Trowbridge aux hon sec, sends this picture, taken
at Trowbridge Flag Day. Those shown helped to collect
£l00 6s. 4d., the highest collection ever for this Flag Day.

 

 




 

LOUGHBOROUGH S7. NORTH
LEICESTERSHIRE BRANCH

Results of ‘Heather Day’ Appeal reported by Miss M
Harridge C ayless, branch hon sec, are as follows:

£ 3. d.

Loughborough .. .. 167 15 10
Auxiliaries 328 1 9
£495 17 7

MONTGOMERY BRANCH

Results of Flag Days held in Montgomery Branch, notiﬁed
by Mrs Maidie Andrew Hughes, branch hon sec, as follows:

5. d.

Welshpool 66 18 8
Knighton (RadnoIHshiIe) 15 4 0
Newtoun 40 19 4
Rhayader (Radnoishhc) 11 6 8
Machynlleth . 20 5 4
Llanidloes 15 12 10
£170 610

BIRMINGHAM 81 DISTRICT BRANCH

The following results of Flag Days have been reported by
Mr G. James DuRose, branch sec:

 

£ 5. 61.
Birmingham City . 2,464 10 4
Cradley Heath 6 13 6
Brierley Hill, 1 10 2 0
Brierley Hill, 2 2 3 0
Pensnett 1 810
Blackheath 11 14 7
Old Hill 16 4 4
Tipton 2012 7
Halesowen 67 11 0
Water Orton 1916 1
Sutton Coldﬁeld 196 18 4
Dudley 174 0 8
Shirley 7018 9
Solihull 384 6 7
Smethwick 122 10 4
Coleshill 35 1 11
Marston Green 23 17 3
£3,628 10 1
HOUSE TO HOUSE £
5.
Armitage, Mrs Hudson, aux hon sec 6 17 5
Colchester, MissA. Estcourt Oswald, branch
hon sec 50 9 5
Harwich 81 District, Mrs Whelpton, aux hon
sec 154 5 9
Bearpark Mrs Dixon aux hon sec 34 15 Z
Northenden St Wythenshawe, Mrs Johnson,
aux hon sec... 70 8 11
Gurnard & Northwood, Mr H H. Perry
aux hon sec 9 10 10
Frosterley, Mrs D Ross, aux hon sec .. 4 11 9
Wells & Walsingham, Mrs Purchas, aux hon
sec .. , 29 18 0
Buckfast, Miss B M Carus, aux hon sec 9 10 10
Welton St Braunston, Miss E. Merthyr and
Mrs Bichener .. . 7 4 4
13‘1er Mr E B Jones, MBE, branch hon sec 87 7 6
inchester & District, Mrs Lomard Hob
son, branch hon sec .. 179 2 11

SPANIEL COLLECTING BOXES
Hadley Wood Auxiliary—£6 05. 6d.

oucester~£42

amborne Cornwall—In one store, £66 145.561. in approxi—
mately four months
Barnsley Yorkshire—At the Co operative Cafe, £8.

 

STARTING YOUNG

Master Pitts helps the RSPCA. (The picture, sent by Mrs
Frances Heard, was taken on Spalding Flag Day)

Blackpool—Nine Spaniels, £400.
RhyI—One box, in six months, outside West Parade,
£252 25 6d. , a second box issued, £97 165 2d.

Birchington—In two months, £9 95.

LONDON STORE COLLECTIONS

Mrs John, at HMV, Oxford Street, £30; at Peter Robinson,
£14 185.

 

 

 

 

TEMPLE COX CAPTIVE
BOLT SLAUGHTERING
GUNS

Specially recommended and used by the RSPCA

THREE MODELS—ALL SILENT IN
ACTION

‘UNIVERSAL’ for all animals
‘SMALLS’ for all small animals
‘MARK 6’ for all animals. Designed for heavy

 

 

 

use In large Abattoirs and Freezing Works

TEMPLE COX DEVELOPMENT CO. LTD
HIGH STREET, BROMLEY, KENT

 

 

 

 

 

 

l

 




  

 

 

    

 

 

January1958 THE ANIMAL WORLD 3

 

 

 

‘ Support the

.R. S‘PC‘A'

       

K1,.
0

_ Illustrated left is the attractive design of the new
‘stick-on’. Supplies are available at 25. per MD from
RSPCA Headquarters
0

 

Buildings Gutter! by Fire: All Animals Saved

Mr John Hansford, a cowman employed at Splat,
ford Farm, Kenford, Devon, was milking cows in
a shed when he noticed that a large barn in the
farmyard was on ﬁre: ﬂames were already licking
an adjoining leanato building, which housed 21
calves and 11 pigs.

Mr Hansford dashed to the lean—to and found
it well ablaze. Hot slates and burning embers were
falling amongst the animals.

The building was full of dense smoke and
the animals were too frightened to move. Mr
Hansford could get no help, as he was alone
at the time. Braving heat and smoke, he carried
the animals to safety in his arms.

Smoke spread to the cow shed and Mr Hans—
ford drove out 39 Friesian cows and led out a bull.

For his gallantry, Mr Hansford has been awarv
ded the RSPCA silver medal.

INSPECTORS’ GALLANTRY

A review of the most recent awards shows ﬁve
Inspectors among the principal winners. Two
have been" awarded the bronze medal and three of
them bars to the bronze medals they already hold.

A bitch, running round the mouth of a disused
well, barking, drew attention to the plight of a
puppy, ‘ Whom Inspector Locke discovered had
fallen to a depth of 36 feet. Three quarters of the
lining brickwork had crumbled, and the sides

.Were bulging and in danger of falling at the

slightest touch. The Inspector faced these hazards
and, with the help of a neighbour, brought the

 

dog to safety, earning the RSPCA bronze medal.
From Cotchford Lane, Hartﬁeld, Sussex, where
this gallant deed was enacted, we‘travel to Tre—
narrett Farm, Polyphant, Altarnum, Cornwall,
where, early one Sunday morning, Inspector
Wilkinson learned that another animal—this time
a cow—had fallen down a well. .
On his swift arrival on the scene, the Inspector
found the ﬁre brigade busy with rescue operations.
The well was 45 feet deep, and the cow could be
seen 20 feet down—just above the water level.
The ﬁre escape ladder was lowered down the
well but was not long enough to rest on the bot—
tom. It was held in position whilst Inspector
Wilkinson made two descents—the ﬁrst time to
secure a rope round the cow’s horns and the
second time to pass up ﬂoating. wood which
threatened to impede rescue operations. On ana
other descent, the Inspector had to work partly
under water to pass slings under the animal’s

body.
NINE—DAYS’ WONDER

Learning that two terriers were trapped in a
cave on Cribarth MOuntain, Craig—yvNos, Brecon,
Chief Inspector Nash found the cave had an
opening 7 feet high, tapering to 3 feet.

Digging exposed a tunnel about 18 inches high,
which, after running 12 yards, ended in a small
hole too narrow for anyone to get through.

Helpers continued digging under appalling con;
ditions. There was heavy rain and a thick moun—
tain mist. As they dug, Chief Inspector Nash and

Photo by courtesy of \
Western Morning News Co Ltd, Plymouth

lnspector Houghton is seen with farmers
and assault engineers loading a rescued
sheep into a rubber dinghy on an island in
the River Dart near Holne.

The sheep was one of five thought to
have been marooned for many days on
two islands in the middle of the river.

The rescue demanded the use of mili-
tary equipment without which it could '
hardly have been done. A 3 in. mortar
grapnel was ﬁred over the larger island.
A line was made fast and a second, strong-
er line was used to pull a small rubber
dinghy across.

 

 




 

 

ANIMAEH

EWORLD

THE OFFICIAL MAGAZINE OF THE RSPCA

 

Vol LIII No I

New Series

JANUARY 1958

PRICE FOURPEN CE

63. per annum. Post Paid

 

 

HOMELESS

    

Show by courtesy of the Birmingham Mail]
AN UN WANTED PRESENT?

Tim, a stray in the RSPCA Birmingham Branch Kennels
shortly after Christmas, was probably an unwanted present.
His story underlines the RSPCA warning that pets should be
given only to people by whom they will be welcomed
always. Tim has been placed in a good home

Faced as it is with the gigantic task of promoting
animal welfare in all its aspects, the RSPCA is
always reluctant to say that this or that problem
is more pressing than another. From time to time,
however, there emerges a need to concentrate
every possible resource on the removal of some
root of animal suffering.

Such a root is homelessness.

The stray is no new problem, and the Society
has always devoted to it the utmost possible
attention..Recently, though, the Council has con—
sidered what special measures could be taken.

As a first step, a Homeless Animals’ Sub;
Committee was formed, and an official appointed
to study and report on the problem.

Nothing is more touching than the plight of
the unwanted dog. Few such dogs can adapt
t emselves to the wild life; the few who do
are harried for their stealing propensities—-
ralding sheep and poultry farms—or come

under blame for causing accidents as they run
hither and thither among the trafﬁc in an un—
friendly world.

Numbers of stray dogs are diminishing. In
1948, the London centre for stray dogs handled
27,000; in the last three yeafs it has handled
under 10,000 a year.

The public could do something to reduce the
numbers of stray dogs by observing the existing
regulation, which demands that a dog on the
highway must have the name and address of the
owner on the collar.

The existence of dogs’ homes undoubtedly
helps to keep the number of stray dogs within
limits; once again the public can help by keeping
in touch with these homes and offering to adopt
dogs. A scrupulous check is made by the RSPCA
before placing a dog, to make sure the new home
is suitable and, above all, kind.

Because the numbers of cats homeless, un’
wanted and stray are so vast, the RSPCA is, in
the first stages of its campaign, concentrating on
this aspect of the stray problem.

Unlike the dog, the cat can adapt herself to a
semiawild state. For this reason, the RSPCA is not
in favour of collecting semi’wild cats for humane
dstruction, unless they are ill, injured, or in a
suffering state from any cause.

Unwanted cats, particularly young males, A

are often placed in new homes by the Society:
last year 12,206 were so placed.

The prevention of animals becoming strays is
the objective for which the RSPCA is working.
Neutering and spaying would help to reduce the
number of strays, and efforts are being made to
educate the public to the need of these operations
and the humane purpose they serve.

Warnings are issued about leaving cats out at
night; people moved under rehousing schemes
are asked to make arrangements about their
animals.

All can help by awakening the public to the
plight of stray animals and to a sense of the
urgency of the problem, which must be solved if
the animal suffering to which it gives rise is to be
abolished. EDITOR

WARNING!
The two centre pages carry ‘horror’ reports

 




 

 

 

 

January 1958

Book Page . . . .

BEYOND THE GOSPELS

In the Pelican Beyond the Gospels by Roderic
Dunkerley, published this year, is printed an
apocryphal story about Jesus and an animal which
will be very welcome to animal lovers. It was in
cluded some years ago by a German writer, Julius
Boehmer, in a collection of early Christian paral—
lels to the New Testament. He drew it from an
earlier writer but failed to trace its history owing
to the latter’s death. The only account of it he
could ﬁnd was a statement that it had been found
in a Coptic Bible manuscript in the Paris Library.
Search there, however, proved unsuccessful. It
is considered to be an extract from some Coptic
apocryphal work; there are many such works in
existence.

‘It happened that the Lord went forth from the
city and walked with His disciples over the moun—
tains. And they came to a mountain, and the
road which led to it was steep. There they found
a man with a sumpterrmule. But the animal had
fallen, for its burden was too heavy, and he beat
it that it bled. And Jesus came to him and said,
Man, why dos’t thou beat thine animal? Seest
thou not that it is too weak for its burden, and
knowest thou not that it suffers pain? But the man
answered and said, What is that to you? I can
beat it as much as I please, since it is my pro—
perty, and I bought it for a good sum of money.
Ask those that are with thee, for they know me
and know thereof. And some of the disciples said,
Yea, Lord, it is as he says. We have seen how he
bought it. But the Lord said, Do you not notice
how it bleeds and hear you not how it laments and
cries? But they answered and said, Nay, Lord, we
hear not how it laments and cries. And the Lord
was sad and exclaimed, Woe toyou that ye hear
not how it complains to the Creator in heaven
and cries for mercy. But three times woe to him
of whom it complains and cries in its distress.
And He came forth and touched the animal, and
it rose and its wounds were healed. And Jesus
said to the man, Now go on and beat it no more,
that you also may ﬁnd mercy.’

 

WILD MAMMALS
Maxwell’s Knight’s How to Observe Our Wild
Mammals (published by Routledge and Kegan
Paul, price 125. 661., pp. 125, including Index, with
numerous line drawings by Eileen Soper), should
prove suitable for older and more sensible childv
ren, but we wonder whether he stresses sufficiently
the risks of advising young people to embark upon
observing ‘forays’ in the country—and particu’
larly at night. At the outset, he warns readers that
Observing must be done as far as possible without
disturbing the animals, though he later suggests

that they might copy the mole trapper’s method of .

THE ANIMAL WORLD 9

catching moles. He speaks, too, of having kept
native wild animals, a practice on which the
RSPCA frowns, and, when opposing the idea of
introducing new animals into a country, he
suggests that it is better that animals from
abroad should ﬁnd their way into well—run zoos
and menageries. We cannot agree that captivity
is acceptable for wild animals, who should be left
in their own homes. It is a pity that the value of
this book should be marred, since it does so much
to inspire respect for animals and to awaken in
its readers an awe at the marvels of Nature.

 

The Complete Book of Cats by Adie Suehsdorf,
photographs by Walter Chandoha, price 123. 6d.
net; 128 pages, profusely illustrated with photo;
graphs. This is another addition to the large and
fascinating library of cat portraiture.

 

ON VISITING TERMS WITH NATURE

Britain’s Nature Reserves, by E. M. Nicholson,
published by Country Life, price 305. (pp. 175,
including index; profusely illustrated by photo'
graphs).

The author’s preface gives, perhaps, the best
rapid survey of this book’s intention when he
says: ‘Somebody had to write this book in order
to explain the objects and scope of what may in a
broad sense be called Nature Reserves, and
especially of the part played in the general move
ment by the recently created Nature Cona
servancy’.

For the nature lover eager to become acquainted
with the heritage that enlightened bodies are
working to preserve, this is a handbook that
deserves a prominent place on the bookshelf.
The book seeks to ensure that anyone interested
can readily ﬁnd out which Reserves may be
visited without formality, and which may be
Visited only by special permission—the method
of obtaining permission being given.

 

COPY CATS

Two new books remind us of the excellent copy
that cats provide for owners who are also writers.
They are Minka and Curdy by Antonia White
(Harvill Press, pp. 126, with one colouredsand
numerous line drawings, price 125. 6d.), and
‘A Clowder of Cats by John Merrett (Frederick
Muller Ltd, pp. 86, with many photographic
illustrations, price 123. 6d.).

Mr Merrett seems to recognize the responsi—
bility of cat ownership and served an apprentice;
ship in the comparatively more tranquil ownera
ship of a dog. We would not recommend a
custom he had, when a dog owner, of allowing
his dog on the street alone.

 

 

 




 

January 1958

THE ANIMAL WORLD 7'

 

Photo (right) by courtesy of
County Borough of Dudley Police

TETHERED PIGEON IN‘PAINT TIN

Two youths (aged I5 and I4) caught a
pigeon, tied its legs, pushed it into a paint
tin and threw it over a wall. This was the
‘final action’ in what was described by a
solicitor as a ‘series of most disgraceful
acts of cruelty’. The solicitor was prosecu-
ting for the RSPCA when the two youths
were brought before the juvenile court at
Dudley, charged with causing unnecessary
suffering to the pigeon by unreasonably
killing it in an improper manner. He said
the boys cut the bird’s flight feathers with a
penknife, threw it into the air, tried to hang
it by the neck from a pole, tried to poison
it with parafﬁn, beat it with sticks and
broke its neck. The boys were placed on
probation for three years and each ordered
to pay £5 95. costs. (B.27l8 Inspector
Edwards)

 

CROUCHlNG UNDER A TABLE

Underneath an old table in a yard, RSPCA Inspector ].
Cunliﬁ'e saw a number of dogs—wet, dirty, and lying on
dirty rags. One of them, a brown terrier bitch puppy
approximately 4 months old was in the worst bodily condi-
tion, very weak, and hardly able to stand.

This puppy was given a humane end. The muscles of
Shoulders, loins and quarters were wasted (as can be seen in
the photograph), and the animal was extremely emaciated.

Veterinary surgeon, who gave evidence, believed that the
animal had suffered from lack of adequate supply of
nourishing food over a period of several weeks. .

The other dogs which were not in such a bad condition
were taken to an RSPCA shelter and after treatment found
good homes.

The owner was prosecuted at Manchester by the RSPCA
for causing unnecessary suffering to a dog by neglect. I-Ie
Was ﬁned £5 with £9 95. costs and prohibited from holding
a licence or keeping a dog for ﬁve years. (B.l573)

 

 

COCKERELS STRUCK AGAINST WALL

Four cockerels were found mutilated in a yard. Two of them
had wire tied round their necks and two with wire tied
round their legs. The birds were in a deplorable condition
as can be seen from the picture. Each bird had been swung
about by the wire and struck against a wall. They had also
been beaten with pieces of wood.

Two eight-year-old boys were brought before Darlington
juvenile Court by the RSPCA for causing unnecessary
suffering by killing in an improper manner. Each was given
a conditional discharge and ordered to pay £2 costs.
(B.I 757, Chief Inspector Baxter)

 

 

 




[P. F. Wiseman

 

D.
L
O
H
E
R
U
T
U
F

 

 

E , ,
T ,.
S . \ _
E
O .
D W
T
A w
w

‘ ‘ ext-wnlflliwl. Uta) (.7. pl: 1%! 13.13:! .1 ‘ 4W3 Linalxllr ﬁwg. {froiuer fair}. IN K .. ,

 

 

‘I I if >1 _ fly .1 :1 .. v | . L In 4 l




 

January 1958

pigs. It will be recalled that following upon a visit
to Holland by Major Hancock, RSPCA Chief
Veterinary Ofﬁcer, to witness this method in
operation, and a deputation to the Ministry of
Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (undertaken in
conjunction with UFAW), the RSPCA Council
resolved that this method of anaesthesia be ap—
proved for pigs. During the Second Reading of
this measure, the Government spokesman re
ferred to the assistance given by the RSPCA and
UFAW.

Pests Act, 1954

On November 13, Lord Dynevor reintroduced
the Pests Act, 1954 (Amendment) Bill into the
House of Lords. It seeks, among other things, to
amend the Pests Act by repealing Section 12,
which forbids the artificial spreading of myxoma—

‘tosis. The RSPCA is strongly opposed to any

change in this aspect of the Act; it will be recalled
that the introduction of the clause into the Pests
Act, forbidding the artificial spread of myxoma—
tosis, resulted in a large measure from agitation
by the Society.

 

This Bill was 'defeated by 40 votes to 15.

 

 

 

QUESTIONS
Quarantine

The Minister of Agriculture said, in answer to a
question, that he did not feel he would be justified
in making any exceptions in the current regulaa
tions for the quarantining of dogs. He added that
a committee of the World Health Organization
recommended that countries free from rabies
should continue to prohibit the import of dogs
and cats, or subject them on importation to a long
period of quarantine—preferably six months.

A spokesman for the Minister of Agriculture,
answering a question about a fortnight later, said
that 913 dogs and 95 cats were at present in
approved quarantine kennels in Great Britain.
These kennels, he explained, are under the con—
trol of fullyaqualified veterinary surgeons who
are responsible for the care of the animals. There
are arrangements for the inspection of these
premises by the Ministry’s veterinary officers at
least every three months and by the. police at least
once a month.

Exports of Live Cattle

Several questions on the traﬂic in live cattle to the
Continent for slaughter were addressed to the
Minister of Agriculture, who gave the informa—
tion that from the beginning of August to Octh

. ber 19, a total of 8,099 cattle were exported to

Holland, 5,454 to Western Germany and none to

THE ANIMAL WORLD 5

France. His veterinary officers keep a close watch
on the trade, and no animal is exported unless it
is fit to travel and has been fully rested.

Mr Hurd asked to what extent direct shipment

from British ports has now been replaced by
shipment by way of Ireland, so aggravating the
risks of hardship and cruelty. Mr Amory
answered: ‘I am satisﬁed that the measures intro«
duced last August have removed any reasonable
grounds for complaint about this traffic from
Great Britain. Although cattle bred in Ireland are
being exported from Irish ports to the Continent,
I understand that only higthuality stock for
breeding has left this country for Ireland since
that date.’
(Editorial note—The RSPCA still believes that the
trade in live cattle to the Continent for slaughter
should be abolished; if the meat is required on
the Continent, the cattle should be slaughtered
humanely in this country and exported in carcase
form.)

Animals for Experiments

The Secretary of State for the Home Department
told the House of Commons that he would not
introduce legislation making it compulsory for all
laboratories and similar establishments purchasing
live animals for experimental purposes to main;
tain adequate records concerning all their pur—
chasing transactions. He added that on the evi—
dence available to him he was not satisfied that
such legislation was necessary. He reminded the
House that the National Health Service hospitals
did not purchase animals. (Note: The RSPCA is
opposed to all painful experiments on animals.)

 

 

jinnie, a ginger tom cat, who was ﬁrst befriended years ago
by Mrs Coplestone-Boughley of Guildford, is 20 years old!

 

WARNING!

Pictures overleaf show animal victims of cruelty. They are
likely to upset the sensitive

 

 

 




 

ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
Founded 1824 Headquarters: 105 Jermyn Street, London, S,W,1

PATRONS

HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN
HER MAJESTY QUEEN ELIZABETH, THE QUEEN MOTHER
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ALICE COUNTESS OF ATHLONE
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ARTHUR OF CONNAUGIIT

VICE-PRESIDENTS
SIR MALCOLM SARGENT, HON LLD, DMUS, I-‘Rt'M, I'RSA
THE EARL OF SHAErESEURY, RP, PC

 

THE COUNCIL

Chairman: THE RT HON LORD MERTHYR, [)L, '11), JP
Vice-Chairman: *MRS WALLIS POWER, JP

AGIUS, THE REV. DOM. AMBROSE, OSB, MA GARDNER, HON. JULIET .1’l(11(‘11.-\R1),MR\ 1)

AILWYN, THE RT HON LORD ‘HARVEY, MRS I. w., MA ‘KAI'I RAY, R. I~., Iw, MA, PILI)

‘ALLIEERT, MRS HOBHOUSE, J. S. ESQ. RISIII 1-.\’, MRS R. I:

*ALSOP, ALDERMAN A. 1., FRCA, FCIS, JP HOWELL, EASIL P., ESQ, MBE ‘RII€(‘K, II. IL, ['81)

ANDERSON, L. K., ESQ., MRCVS, DVM. "HUNTER, MISS SIIILY, w. A., l-\'(), MA, H’

BERTIE 0F THAME, THE RT HON THE VISCOUNTESS LEE, MRS E. M. SNI-LL, AI l)l'.RM,\\' H“. luv [)KEHENDARY L, I. n.
HRANSOM, MISS L. G., FRSA LLEWELLYN, THE REV CANON LEONARD, I..'l‘ll. MIIP, In, HHN.(’1 (111R11‘()Rl))

BYWATER, H. E., ESQ., MRcvs

LOCKWOOD, LT-COL J. C., JP, ID ‘ I‘AI'I', MRS, MA
DORCHESTER, LT-COL TIIE RT HON LORD, OBE, JP LONGMAN, MRS w. ‘WALI ()RI), M RS In-SIII 1R1 )UGH
‘DOWDELL, MRS M. R. MACNAGHTEN, MR A.

WARDS, (‘()l()N1A1, (i1, ('MG, OBE
ESTCOURT-OSWALD, MISS AGNES, MB (LOND), DPH *McPHAIL, MRS ALISON LEI'II‘IA, MB, CII.II

‘WHr 1-, HARRY, LSO. H'A
(CANTAB), DOMS MOORE, LT-COL SIR THOMAS, BART, CIIE, MP “'11 I I RI, SIR AR I IIIIR. KBE
‘EVANs, MRS DAVID, BA POULETT, THE RT HON THE EARL

‘\\'1N(lll-Sll-R,1'.J.,1v§(),1"ClS, FSS
GALWAY, THE DOWAGER VISCOUNTESS

 

 

‘Denotes Branch Representative

 

OFFICE BEARERS APPOINTED BY THE COUNCIL

Hon Treasurer—LT—COL J. C. LOCKWOOD, JP, TD

(‘hioi Secretary —JOIIN HALL, I-SQ
Deputy H_on Treasurer—HARRY WHITE, ESQ, FCA Assistant Secretaries—1). A. L. (‘AMM Iso, BA
Hon Medical Oﬂicer—A. N. CRAWFORD, ESQ, FRCSI ALLAN JOINI R ESQ
Bankers—MESSRS COUTTS AND co, STRAND, LONDON ‘

Legal Secretary—R. MURRAY, ESQ
Chlef Veterinary OlllCCr-—MAJUR R. C. G. HANCOCK, IISC. NRC“
Auditors—\IFSSRS VINEY, PRICE AND GOODYEAR CHA ' '
, RTERI:D ACCOUNTANTS
Telegrams—WHITEHALL 7177 Telephone—Whitehall 7177

___——-—

 

 

 

 

 

R.S.P.C.A. ill—l

FORM OF BEQUEST FOR NATIONAL \VORK

To those benevolent individuals who may wish to become benefactors by Will to this

Society, the following form is respectfully suggested:—

‘
l bequeath to ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY To ANIMALS, for the

general purposes of that Society, the sum of £ ......................... , free of all duties

payable at my death and the receipt of the Treasurer for the time being of the said Society shall

be a sufﬁcient discharge for such legacy.’ (If it should be desired that the legacy should be 696‘

pended on some particular phase of the Society’s work, a direction to this eﬁect may be added to the
form of bequest.)

CAUTION
. 26, all Wills or Codicils must be in Writing signed by the l

 

By the Act of 7 William IV and IVictoria, cap

Testator,

 

and ° .
attested by two Witnesses In the presence of the Testator and of each other.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

2 THE ANIMAL WORLD

January 1958 '

 

 

 

THE RSPCA AT WORK

 

NOVEMBER 1957
RSPCA INSPECTORS

1,737 Complaints of cruelty investigated.
1 Oﬁender imprisoned.
73 Oﬁenders ﬁned. ‘
21 Persons guilty of minor acts of cruelty cautioned in writing.
629 Registered cautions were administered by Inspectors.

CLASSIFICATION OF CONVICTIONS
HORSES—Working in an unﬁt state ..
CATTLE—Neglecting, conveying in improper manner
GOAT—Neglecting

DOGS—Neglecting, killing in improper manner, shooting
and wounding, etc.

o o

CATS—Neglecting, injuring with missile, killing in imr

proper manner 11
RABBITS—Allowing to be worried by dogs 2
EOWL—Neglecting 1
BUDGERIGARS—Neglecting . . 2
HEDGEHOGs—Killing in improper manner 5
OFFENCES UNDER THE PROTECTION OF BIRDS ACT, 1954:

Being in possession of recently taken birds 5
Conﬁning birds in small cages 12
Using bird lime 1
Setting spring trap 2
VARIOUS. OEFENCES:

Steel—tooth trap—set in open 1
Steel—tooth trap—failing to inspect 1
Infringement of the Pet Animals Act, 1951 2

TOTAL NUMBER OF CONVICTIONS ‘77}

During NOVEMBER 1957, Magistrates, at the request of the
RSPCA, disqualiﬁed SEVENTEEN persons from owning a dog or
holding a dog licence. Disqualiﬁcations were as follows:

ONE for 12 months: THREE for 2 years: SIX for 5 years: Two
for 7 years: TWO for 10 years: THREE for life.

Total number of COMPLAINTS from January Ist 23,286
Total number of CONVICTIONS from January Ist 739
Total number of CAUTIONS from January 1st 8,026

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS

No. of animals handled: .
Cats 3,436 Dogs 3,999 Misc. 843 Total 8,278
No. of animals given emergency ﬁrst aid: 2,172

PUTNEY CONVALESCENT WARD

No. of animals handled:

Dogs 99 Cats 17 Misc. 1 'l‘otal 117

NIGHT STAFF

No. of calls received: 1,190

No. of animals treated by Veterinary Kare. om: 271
No. of animals rescued: 9

No. of inspection complaints: 5

Miles covered by ambulance in respect of Hiawrlt mllﬁi 2,429

NORTH WALES UNIT

First Aid Cases:

Cats 42 Dogs 71 Misc. 10 Total 123
No. of animals handled by Unit:
Cats 212 Dogs 135 Misc. 24 Total 371

No. of miles covered by Unit: 2,400

DEVON & CORNWALL UNIT

First Aid Cases:
Cats 37 Dogs 58 Misc. 8

No. of animals handled by Unit:
Cats 88 Dogs 82 Misc. 10

No. of miles covered by Unit: 1,494

Total. 103

TOltll 180

SOUTH WALES MOBILE UNIT

First Aid Cases:
Cats 95 Dogs 216 Misc. 21

No. of animals handled by Unit:
Cats 196 Dogs 261 Misc. 23

No. of miles covered by Unit: 978

Total 3 32

Total 480

AWARDS

AWARDS CONSIDERED 60 ‘
SILVER MEDALS 1
BRONZE MEDALS 10
BARS TO BRONZE 3

CERTIFICATES OF MERIT . . . . . . 2'7

 

 




 

4 THE ANIMAL WORLD

January 1958

 

M

Inspector Punter carried the mud and rock out of
the cave.

A fall of roof in the cave and the absence of any
evidence that the dogs were alive caused the
rescue operations to be abandoned, until, nine
days later, the police phoned Inspector Punter to
say it was believed the dogs were still alive and
that ﬁve men attempting their rescue were in
difﬁculties.

The Inspector, with another helper, baled out
water, whilst others cleared a tunnel to the dogs,
separated by this time by 75 feet from the rescuers.

At last both dogs were reached and brought to
safety. Though in poor bodily condition, they
were both lively and enjoyed a bowl of warm
soup.

BARS TO BRONZE MEDALS

Inspector Punter is one of the Inspectors who
has received a bar to the RSPCA bronze medal he
already holds. The other two Inspectors receiving
similar awards are: Senior Inspector Franks and
Senior Inspector Harland.

At Egremont Promenade, Wallasey, Visitors
saw Senior Inspector Franks lowered on a car tow—
rope to rescue an injured seagull, which was rest—
ing on a ledge, being buffeted by the tide. The
Senior Inspector, when hauled to safety after the
bird, which he had retrieved, was thoroughly
soaked'by sea water.

Three crag'fast sheep on Rainsbarrow Crag,
Kentmere, Kendal, called out the gallantry of
Senior Inspector Harland.

Two of the sheep were reached after a climb of
500 feet. The rescue of the third sheep meant a
climb over narrow ledges, over rocks and gulleys,
the ledges often no more than 12 inches wide,
with a sheer drop of up to 1,500 feet. One false
step would have meant possible death.

PARLIAMENTARY NEWS

BALLOT

Following the ballot for Private Members’ Bills,
Sir Frederick Messer, MP, introduced the Protec—
tion of Deer Bill ‘to prohibit the hunting with
hounds of deer, to provide for the control of deer
by approved methods, and for purposes connec—
ted therewith’.

The measure is strongly supported by the
RSPCA. It is due for Second Reading on February
21 and, nearer that date, the Society’s Head—
quarters will inform all wishing to work for the
passing of the measure if there is any way in
which they can help.

Slaughterhouse Bill

This Bill was introduced into the House of Com—
mons in November last, and received a Second

ﬂ.

THE DOG IN THE ROCKET

At the end of a talk to a very young audience one
RSPCA lecturer was very surprised to get ques—
tions on the dog in the rocket. One small boy said
he would rather go himself than let his dog go. He
ended simply and sincerely: ‘You see I love my
Kim’.
Since the last report 168 lectures have been given
in schools in Colchester, London, Ealing, York,
Southport, Sussex, Faversham, Attlebough, Suf—
folk, Devon, Carmarthen and Monmouth.
Forty—two new Animal Defenders were formed;
331 children joined the Headquarters Group.

 

Larry the Lamb was brought to the RSPCA shelter in

Sheffield at the early age of two weeks. He had a dislocated

foreleg which was immediately treated by a veterinary

surgeon and is now almost recovered. After treatment he

was able to walk naturally. At the beginning he was fed

every 2-3 hours with a bottle and was much loved by all the
staff at the Shefﬁeld centre

Reading in the Same month. Its main points of
interest to the RSPCA are:

1. Clause 1 lays down that slaughterhouse
premises which fail to conform to the require’
ments of certain regulations relating to hygiene
and to the prevention of cruelty to animals
shall run the risk of being refused either the
granting or renewal of their licence.

2. Clause 7 .amends the Slaughter of Animals
Acts to provide that the Minister may, after
consulting interests concerned, prescribe me;
thods other than stunning by which animals
may be anaesthetized for slaughtering. The
clause and the Second Schedule also make
minor amendments to those Acts with a View
to their consolidation.

The object of amending Clause 1 (1) Of the

1933 Act is, no doubt, primarily to permit the
use of the carbon—dioxide method of slaughtering

 

 




 

 

6 THE ANIMAL WORLD

January 1958

 

 

BEFORE——

 

Photo by courtesy of Baxters Studios]

A woman was brought before Colwyn Bay Police Court by
the RSPCA for causing unnecessary suffering to an l8-
month-old black and white cross-bred terrier bitch by
failing to provide her with nourishing food and proper care
and attention. She was fined £2 and ordered to pay £l0 l0s.
costs, and was disqualified from keeping a dog for 5 years.

Inspector Hughes reported that the dog was very weak

—AND AFTER

 

'\"

on its hindlegs and had great difficulty in remaining on its
feet. Her bones were very prominent and her claws were
very long.

The second picture shows the dog’s improvement after
being only two weeks in the care of the RSPCA Inspector.
The dog has now been placed in a good home.

(8.204!)

 

 

Photo by courtesy of the Chief Constable of Somerset Constabulary

CAT’S LEGS SEVERED

Brought before Radstock Magistrates Court by the RSPCA
a farmer was fined £l0 and ordered to pay £8 l3s. costs for
failing to give proper care and attention to this cat.

A witness said that he noticed the cat’s back legs had been
severed and it was a horrible sight to see the animal strug-
gling and dragging itself towards a farmyard. (In the picture
left, the rings indicate the severed stumps.)

Senior Inspector Senior visited the farm and found the cat
in a shed and he reported: ‘The cat could not walk, and l
saw that it was dragging itself along on the stumps of its
back legs. I found that both its back legs had been severed
just above the hacks. The cat was in a ghastly condition and
the injuries appeared to have been sustained some time aga-
thereby leaving suppurating swollen stumps with the bones
exposed.’

In the opinion of a veterinary surgeon the cat’s injuries
had been caused by the cutter-bar of an agricultural
mowing machine. The cat was given a humane end. (B.l543)




 

 

8 THE ANIMAL WORLD

 

A month-old fawn wandered many miles from home and
into a greengrocer’s shop in a busy London suburb, where it
stopped to nibble a lettuce.

lnspector Cole took the fawn from the shop in Windmill
Hill, Enfield, to Southall Clinic and afterwards released it
in Richmond Park.

Largely owing to the representations of Inspector

Wood, buyers at Cowbridge cattle market are now
prohibited from entering the sale ring. Also at his
request, all ﬂoors have been treated to prevent the
animals from slipping when entering and leaving
the pens.

As a result of representations made by InspeCa
tor Daniels to the market authorities at Kettering
many badly—needed reforms have been carried
out, which include the erection of new cattle pens,
the installation of a proper lighting system, and
the introduction of a cooling system for the ﬂoor—
ing of the pig pens, so that the animals no longer
suffer acute discomfort in hot weather. All these

January 1958

improvements were suggested by the Inspector at
the beginning of last year and all have now been
put into effect.

Senior Inspector Reid reports that a sum of
£4,000 is being spent on improvements to Rom—
ford Market, where new calf, sheep and pig pens
are in process of being installed and a permanent
loading ramp provided.

Aylesbury Cattle Market: an efficient lighting
system is now in operation, thanks to the urgent
request made to the local Council by Inspector
Donigan, who was concerned at the frequency of
accidents to cattle as they were loaded on to
lorries in the darkness.

Inspector Evans has succeeded in persuading
authorities to carry out extensive repairs to the
poultry pens at Rugby Market.

Canterbury: Inspector Rhodes has won his long
battle with the City Council over the slippery con;
dition of the cattle pens, with the result that all
ﬂoors are to be roughened, to prevent further
hardship to the animals who pass through this
market.

Pwllheli Stock Market: Senior Inspector Thel—
well has obtained shelter for sheep and pigs, as
well as the provision of ample straw bedding for
calves and small pigs.

Bury St Edmunds Market: Probationer Inspec—
tor Ellis drew the attention of the Borough Sure
veyor to an injured boar, whose foot had been
badly cut on a jagged end of corrugated iron,
which formed the fencing to his pen, and asked
that this fence should be replaced by one of steel
plate. This request was refused, owing to the cost
involved, but the problem was solved, at the
Inspector’s suggestion, by framing the corrugated
iron panels with strips of timber.

 

HoRsE 01? THE YEAR

Written by Ronald Duncan for the ‘Cavalcade’
which takes place at the end of the ‘Horse of the
Year’ show:

This Cavalcade of Grace now stands, it speaks in
silence,

Its story is this land.

W7 here in this wide world can man ﬁnd nobility
Without pride, friendship without envy or
beauty without vanity? Here, where grace is
laced with muscle, and strength by gentleness
confined. .

He serves without servility; he has fought without
enmity. There is nothing so powerful, nothing
less Violent; there is nothing so quick, nothing
more patient.

England’s past has been born on his back. All our
history is his industry: we are his heirs, he our
inheritance.

Ladies and Gentlemen; THE HORSE!

@hituary

With sincere regret, we report these deaths: Mrs
Waide, honorary secretary, Sonning Auxiliary;
Miss E. G. Day, a member of Kendal Auxiliary
Committee; Mrs Kirk, a supporter; Mrs J. G.
Rowell, honorary secretary, Edmonton, SW
Auxiliary; Colonel I. Price, a supporter; Miss
M. B. Gettings, honorary treasurer, Warrington
Auxiliary; Mr W. Charles Jones, honorary treas—
urer, Caerns. W. and Anglesey Branch; The
Marchioness of Bristol, President, Suffolk West
and Bury St Edmunds Branch; Mrs Wilkins,
honorary secretary, Haslemere Auxiliary; Mr H.
Lonsdale, a supporter, Miss M. A. C. Thomson,
former honorary secretary, Isle of Thanet Branch
(25 years); Miss R. Ferguson, honorary secretary,

Animal Aid and Wleare Club.

 

 

 

 




 

10 THE ANIMAL WORLD

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Right
Animal Defenders of the Indian Secondary
School, photographed outside RSPCA
Headquarters, Dar-es-Salaam, Tanganyika

January 1958

WESTERN NlGERlAN BRANCH

Left

Committee members of the Western Niger-
ian Branch of the RSPCA photographed at
their ﬁrst meeting held at lbadan after the
RSPCA Council had granted the branch
autonomy.

Among those shown (front row) is:
Mr ]. Adekunle Adepoju, branch secretary

   

 

TRAP VICTIMS

A special correspondent, writing in The Times on
the aftermath of myxomatosis in an article en—
titled ‘The Resilient Rabbit’, mentions that a
date is provisionally agreed under the Pests Act
for the prohibition of the use of the steel—toothed
trap (the socalled gin).

The correspondent continues:

‘Even the former exponents of this trap in
the farming community are realizing that its
intensive use was responsible for the phenom,
enal increase in rabbits, especially in the west,
in the last thirty years before myxomatosis
appeared. It is recognized, at last, that the
trap was the professional trapper’s best friend.

‘It killed or wounded the numerous enemies
ofthe rabbit—cat, dog, fox, badger, polecat,
stoat, weasel, buzzard, and other hawks, not
to mention its toll of numerous harmless and
beneﬁcial birds, and that it was excessively
cruel in its maiming action.

‘It left behind a sufﬁcient nucleus of rabbits
to provide a proﬁtable harvest for the trapper
each year.’

The RSPCA has always opposed the use of the

gin and looks forward to the time when it will

be abolished.

 

Photo by courtesy of the Eastern Daily Press]

A cat caught in a gin. The animal, found at Norwich, was
given a swift and humane end. The picture was taken
afterwards

  

 




 

12 THE ANIMAL WORLD

January 1958

 

to Police-Inspector Winston Jones and Mr Ward (HM
Coastguards) for rescuing a lamb from the sea at the foot of
the cliffs at Castell Coch. Those present included Mrs
Matthias (Branch Chairman) and Mr Winter (Branch Hon
Sec) and Mrs Winter, and Clr Frank Morgan.
Peterborough and District Whittlesey, Whist Drive and
Lottery, Mrs Hunt-Pain (aux hon sec), £32. Whittlesey,
Domino Drive, Mrs Lutkin (hon aux treas), £4 10s.
Suffolk—East Coast, Constable Lowestoft, Christmas Mar-
ket, £90.

Surrey—Epsom and District Ashtead, Sale, Mrs F. Neale
(aux hon sec), £214.

Sussex—Mid and Eastbourne Lewes, afternoon event, Mrs
Breﬂit (aux hon sec), held at the home of Mrs Blaker, £24.
Sussex—West, and Brighton Midhurst, Sale, Mrs Lush
(aux hon sec), £42 13s 35. Henﬁeld, Whist Drive, Mrs Sturt
(aux hon sec), £6.

““““““““

3...
Mike, with a stray ginger kitten. (Picture from Mrs Daly,
Swaythling aux hon sec)

 

Wakeﬁeld and District AM (Dewsbury Aux.) Wakeﬁeld,
Pianoforte Recital given by the pupils of Mr Alex Green,
£15. .

Worcestershire—East and West Warwickshire Henley-in-
Arden, Jumble Sale, Mrs Thomas (aux hon sec), £23.
Yorkshire—Bradford and District Shipley, Summer Draw,
Mrs Moore (aux hon sec), £36 17d.

Yorkshire—Harrogate and District Harrogate, Coffee
Morning, Mrs Fattorini (branch committee member),
£72 2s. 6d. Harrogate, Jumble Sale, Mr G. Barrer (branch
hon sec), £24.

 

FILM NEWS

The Society’s ﬁlms were sent to the following
places for showing recently: Leytonstone, Llanr
dudno, Chailey, Banbury, Woking, ltchingfield,
Broadstairs, Cupar, Exeter, Trumpington, Dude
ley, Eltham, Chislehurst, Bournemouth, Guilda
ford, Carshalton, Newport, Leyton, Lymington,
Bradford, Redditch, Harpenden, Halifax, Basford,
Ramsgate, Torquay, Penn, Arnold, Rogerstone,
Bilton, Trafalgar Square, Rotherfield, Harewood,
Faversham, Kirkby Stephen, Fort Dunlop, Trow»
bridge, Newton Abbot, Fishguard, Ashford,
Chesterﬁeld, New Malden, Swindon, Edinburgh,
Bridgnorth, Gateshead, Sheerness, Slough, Bate
tersea, Sale, Reading, St Helen’s, Parkstone,
Worcester, Northwich, Salford, Langport, Tune
bridge Wells, Lancaster, Ashtead, Hexham, Vic—
toria, Loughton, Sutton, Wolverton, Deptford,
Spilsby, Market Rasen, Dartford, Harrow, Epsom,
Uptonaoanevern, Church Stretton, Kennington,
Horncastle, Clapham, Kettering.

l

CGLLECTTCNS

(We give wherever possible the place at which the collection was made and the name of the organizer or organizers).

FLAG DAYS

£ 5. cl.
Romsey, Miss E. M. Collins, branch hon sec 51 1 10
Gateshead, Mrs T. H. Watson, aux hon sec 149 5 O
St Albans, Mrs Goodwin, aux hon treasurer
and Miss Micklethwait, aux hon sec 169 17 4
New Arley, Mrs Miller, aux hon sec (approx) 15 0 O
Peterborough, Miss A. N. Hartley, branch hon
sec 372 4 8
Upton—on—Severn, Mrs B. E. Lucy, aux hon .
sec 13 17 0
Langley, Bucks, Mrs Luty Wells, aux hon sec 36 5 O
Welwyn Garden City, Mr P. H. Marriott,
Clinic hon sec 149 13 10
North Shields, Mrs M. Frier, aux hon sec 107 O 0
(share of joint collection)
Cudworth, Mrs Swann, aux hon sec 12 15 7
Northallerton, Mrs Strother, aux hon sec 29 10 O

Hereford, Mrs Strafford, asst branch hon sec

and Miss E. M. Carver 181 O O
Suffolk—West and Bury St Edmunds Branch

(County Collection) Mrs Breakspear,

branch hon sec 310 14 8

 

PEARLlES HELP ANIMALS

This picture of Reading Flag Day depot shows how the
Pearlies mustered to help local workers

 




SIMPLE- ‘X‘ \\.l\\\\
‘SAFEu
sun: 72:. CASH Xe

CAPTIVE BOLT PISTOL
FOR ALI. ANIMALS

ACCLES AND SHELVOKE LTD ' BIRMINGHAM ' 6 ' ENGLAND

5456

F LAG DAY
GOODS

PLASTIC BADGES

LIST 0N APPLICATION

THE UNIVERSAL BUTTON CO. LTD.

1.9 Birkheck Street, Bethnal Green, LONDON, 13.2

Telephone: BIShopsgate 5750 Telegrams: ‘Unibuteo Edo'

An RSPCA JUMBLE SALE will be held at the
SEYMOUR HALL, LONDON, WI
On Thursday, 27 February I958
From I |.45 a.m. to 4.30 p.m.

We shall be pleased to receive gifts for sale on behalf
of our work, particularly knitted wear for children,
boys and men; odd lengths of material; new and
second- hand clothes—the latter to be clean and
wearable. Broken jewellery is valuable, expecially if
broken parts contain gold or silver. It is regretted
we cannot accept large articles of furniture but any
other saleable article will be gratefully received.
Please address parcels ‘Appeals Dept.

 

 

 

 

 

um ETORMS

HOBSON & SONS
(LONDON) LTD

All inquiries to

154-164 TOOLEY STREET
LONDON BRIDGE S.E.l

Telephone: HOP 2476 (3 lines)
Telegrams: HOBSON, SEDIST, LONDON

Manufacturers of

UNIFORM CLOTHING
CAPS HELMETS LEATHER

BELTS POUCHES etc. etc

Gold and Silver Laces
Embroideries of every

description for ALL
UNIFORMED SERVICES

PATTERNS OF CLOTH
and ESTIMATES
will be forwarded free of charge

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Printed by Shenval Press, Simson Shand Ltd, London, Hertford and Harlow, and
published by John Hall for the RSPCA at 105 Jermyn Street, London, SW1

 




