 

 

Cruelty ‘i‘ Economics 2 Action!
(Continued from Page 11)

million. The total—well over $2 billion
each year.

How do animals get bruised?

Livestock loaded into a truck through a
narrow chute, for instance, are whipped,
pushed and prodded into each other to
hurry them along. Too many are crowded
into the truck. As a result some are
trampled. Protruding nails and horns cripple
others. Some suffocate. Bumps and kicks
injure others. Whips, canes and clubs in-
ﬂict still more injuries.

In 1954 federal meat inspectors con-
demned as unﬁt for human consumption
280,000 animals, and parts from nearly
2,000,000 animals. The reasons varied from
emaciation to tuberculosis, cholera, pneu-
monia, arthritis and injuries.

LC! Has the Answer

What’s the answer? Good management——
including sanitation, nutrition, disease and
parasite control, plus careful handling.

This is the job Livestock Conservation,
Inc. has laid out for itself. Formed in 1951,
a merger of two older organizations, this
non-proﬁt group is getting its message across
through conferences, radio, newspaper, farm
journals, bulletins, posters, ﬁlms, colored
slides, demonstrations, exhibits, contests and
cooperation with universities and 4-H Clubs.

It has formed a task force within each
segment of the industry to emphasize im-
provements which each can strive for. For
farmers it is plugging special loading chutes
and correct feeding methods. For truckers it
is recommending wide gates for loading and
optimum number of animals to a load. For
railroads it is stressing well-designed chutes
and loading facilities.

For stockyards it is recommending, spe-
cial non-skid pavements, elimination of
right-angle corners in alleys, a stockyard
safety program for personnel and use of
canvas slappers instead of canes and clubs.

22

Stockyards are also urged to replace wooden
pens, fences, rails, water troughs and man-
gers with aluminum or steel ones.

Improvement Seen

Many of these suggestions have already
been adopted. The Union Paciﬁc Railroad
has just put in operation 30 new all-steel
cattle cars, padded on the inside to reduce
cold in winter and heat in summer.

Meat packer Armour 81 Co. called in LCl
to establish a loss prevention program at
one of its plants, which was losing $2,200
a week in injuries and bruises. A record-
keeping system was inaugurated. All losses
were tabulated and facts assembled. Physical
equipment was changed. Employees were
taught correct handling techniques.

With LCI’s help similar studies are being
made in other parts of the industry. Im-
provements are being instituted all along the
line. Cooperative effort is bringing impor-
tant results.

Said one LCI member: “No normal ani-
mal will injure itself. Losses are man-made.
They must be eliminated the same way.”

Posters like this are part of LCl’s campaign.

HOGS ,ch

 

    

STII‘” I,

 

 

 

Keep hogs cool in shipment
when temperatures go above 60°-65°
Hogs need air- provide ample ventilation
Change to wet sand bedding
Load 1 or 2 less hogs. . . load easy

cover open trucks uvuvoui

COISIIVAYIOI

Vol/”cw {ﬂipping [0:99;]

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Modernistic Bronx Shelter, at 420 Morris Park
Avenue, has space for 800 animals.

 

Eugene Surowitz, 12, taps on window to
attract a likely pet. He found one.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  

homef

 

Exercise pens
boast all con-
veniences of

$350,000 Bronx Shelter
Has Everything

   
 

Soft music, outdoor play areas, ramps and
glass enclosed kennels for display of animals
looking for homes have been incorporated
in our new $350,000 Bronx Shelter at 420
Morris Park Avenue, at East Tremont
Avenue and Bronx River Parkway.

On November 19 Bronx Borough Presi-
dent James J. Lyons cut the ribbon at open-
ing ceremonies attended by several hundred
ASPCA members, friends and Bronx resi-
dents.

The modernistic building which took 15
months to build replaces our outgrown 32-
year-old shelter on Park Avenue.

The two-story shelter, on a generously
landscaped triangular block, has space for
800 animals and is ﬁve times larger than
the old quarters, which are now used for
storage and car repairs.

Large areas of windows provide a maxi-
mum of natural light, and the interior walls
are made of beige and green colored tile
that is easy to keep clean. Ramps, in place
of stairs, make the trip to different levels
of the building more comfortable for pets
as well as humans.

In ﬁve glass-fronted adoption kennels in
the main lobby, dogs and cats can show
themselves to best advantage to prospective
owners. There are separate pens for male
and female dogs and cats, and one for
kittens. In just the few weeks since we
opened, both dog and cat adoptions have

(Continued on Page 4)

  




 

N animal’s genius for getting into
trouble in New York City is fortu-
nately matched by the ingenuity of a well-
trained group of ASPCA men in rescuing
it. The uniformed men who answer dis—
tress and emergency calls are specially
skilled in coping with the thousands of mis-
fortunes which can occur to an animal.
Senior officer and most experienced of
all is big, burly William Ryan, who knows
more about animal rescue work than almost
anyone else in the city. His experience has
been gleaned through 4.4. years of dealing
with animals as an ASPCA Agent. And be-
fore that he was practically brought up in a
stable. His father was a trainer of Irish
race horses.

“Think of all the accidents that are pos-

  

to the Rescue

The Ryan dog sling.

sible, and you’ll know the variety of calls
we get,” said Ryan. “A snake behind a
radiator, a dog marooned on an ice ﬂoat in
the river, escaped monkeys, a wounded
pigeon on a ledge, kittens in a sewer, a
cat’s head caught in a can, a horse stuck
in the mud, a puppy under a subway car,
a stable ﬁre, a street accident—and prob-
ably the most frequent—a cat up a tree.”9

At least three times a Week cats climb
trees and can’t get down Without ASPCA
assistance. Until 20 years ago there was no
satisfactory way of getting a cat out of a
tree Without danger to the cat or the
rescuer. Today, thanks to a special invention
by Ryan, there’s a safe and sure way.

One day in 1935 Ryan accompanied his
Wife on a shopping tour. They stopped at a

  

 
   
   
  
  
       
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  

 

 




 

Glen Cove Shelfer's ambulance
answers calls in Glen Cove,
Munsey Park and Sea Cliff.
Long Island Committee of
Women’s Division has pledged

 

 

 

to pay for ambulance.

Phofo from L.I.

6len Cove Shelter Our First Outside NYC

In all of its 90 years the ASPCA con-
ﬁned its shelter activities to the ﬁve bor-
oughs of New York City —— that is, until
October of this year.

We broke with that tradition this fall,
when we opened our Shelter in Glen Cove,
Long Island. At the invitation of that city
and the Villages of Munsey Park and Sea
Cliff, We are serving all three communities
by contractual arrangement.

Shelter Houses 60 Animals

The shelter is located on Pratt Boulevard
Extension, occupying a section of the Police
garage, behind the Glen Cove Police Head-
quarters. The building, lent by the city,
has been completely remodeled and fur-
nished by us into an appropriate shelter
for housing about 60 animals. The Society
has also provided a new, modern animal
ambulance with rescue and ﬁrst aid equip-
ment to care for accident cases and sick
or injured animals on the streets. -

Under the contracts our main duty is to
pick up any unleashed dogs running at
large, whether licensed or unlicensed. Of
course, all dogs should be licensed, and
owners are urged to keep the license tag
on the animal’s collar or harness at all times.

This assures identiﬁcation, and notiﬁcation
to the owner if his pet is picked up.

As a humane society we also call for un-
wanted dogs, cats or other animals from
homes, and accept unwanted animals at
the shelter. Such animals are put up for
adoption or humanely destroyed, in accord-
ance with the wishes of the owner.

The Shelter is open Monday through Fri-
day, except on legal holidays, from 9 a.m.
to 4 p.m., Saturday 9 a.m. to 12 noon.

Mayor’s Comment

Commenting on the ASPCA’S new role in
his community, Joseph A. Suozzi, Mayor of
Glen Cove, said: “I feel the citizens of Glen
Cove are fortunate that the ASPCA has
accepted the City Council’s invitation to
come to us. The problems created by our
pet and animal population are such that
they cannot be resolved by law alone. These
problems can best be handled by the
ASPCA. Through its 90 years of experience
in animal protective work, our dogs and
other animals will get the humane attention
these household pets deserve.”

Similar comments were made by Morti-
mer J. Gleeson, Mayor of Munsey Park, and
Edmund J. Denzler, Mayor of Sea Clif’f.

 




ISITORS coming into ASPCA’s class-

room are greeted by chirps, peeps,
screeches, meows, barks, whistles and a high-
pitched “Hello, Laura.” The welcoming com-
mittee consists of a talking Amazon parrot
named Laura, two white cockatiels imported
from South America, 50 parakeets, a dozen
varieties of ﬁnches, sparrows, lovebirds,
colorful ringnecks, combassous, waxbills and
a macaw.

In addition to the bird menagerie there
are hamsters, mice, white rats, chinchillas,
a dog, a cat, a guinea pig family, turtles,
goldﬁsh and tropical ﬁsh.

ASPCA has found that children learn to
understand animals better by seeing them
close up and by holding them. And prac-
tically all these animals can be held and
cuddled by our Visitors.

Linda learns that George, the guinea
pig, has just become a father.

   
     

Linda allows blue parakeet to peck her ﬁnger.
one of a hundred birds in 15 varieties in our

Pete is
aviary.

 

Laura, a green parrot, never stops talking.
Greets each visitor with “Hello, Laura.

George gets latest bulletin on
(white blob at right) from Mrs.

     
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    

 

George Jr.
George.

 

  

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

CT10N

 

AL
ROTE

 

NIM
P

 

 

 

 

 

    




h

0
o

glvmg devot
applness. B

a
0

Ion
y glvmg

for

m
9

1:1
0
1
U...
0
S
3
no
I
O
n
u
01
1
U;
9

i

r care when th

m house
ey are i

hold pets

ASPCA H

ospi
i

tal
Where no ani
i

1] you may reap ym rs
and Cl

0

O

n need of care
3 ever turned away.

mal

reap their own,
mm

C

 




.......

One of Union Paciﬁc's 300 new all-steel cattle cars.

coming more and more active in LCl, par-
ticularly in the New England and Ohio
regional branches. ASPCA General Manager
Warren W. McSpadden, participating in
round-table discussions during LCl’s annual
meeting last February, said: “I believe that
these meetings will help all of us get a better
grasp of the problems that confront both
humane societies and the people directly
engaged in livestock production. We can
now work together toward the same goal.”

Conservation Course

Last summer a special livestock conserva-
tion course for humane workers was con-
ducted by John C. Macfarlane, Livestock
Conservation Director of the Massachusetts
SPCA, Field Director of LCl’s New Eng-
land branch, and the country’s outstanding
authority on the subject. Eight ASPCA
Agents attended.

The men visited stockyards and packers,

 

dairy farms and auction sales, observing on-
the-scenes inspections of good and bad fa-
cilities. They took special note of conditions
which might bruise or cripple an animal.

The bald fact is that no one group is
wholly responsible for the losses and suffer-
ing. They occur every step along the ani-
mal’s journey from farm to processing plant.
Farmers, truckers, railroads, stockyards and
meat packers all contribute their share.

The total hog, cattle and sheep loss due
to bruises alone is $40 million yearly. Added
to this is another $10 million waste in dead
and crippled animals. A total of 70 million
pounds of meat lost to human consumption
— enough to feed a city of half a million
for one year.

Cattle diseases mean a loss of $669 mil-
lion; swine diseases, $540 million; sheep
diseases, $12 million and parasites, $885

( Continued on Page 22)

Proper loading facilities recommended by Livestock Conservation, Inc.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

This very sensitive balance (it can weigh as
little as 0.05 milligrams accurately) is used

in laboratory analysis to weigh out chemicals
and other reagents. Voland Analytical Balance

Our Hospital needs the balance to weigh out $250
reagents used for analyzing the chemicals in

the blood, for liver function tests and for

many other analyses where accurate weight

of ingredients is so vital.

 

Virtually every person with high blood pres-
sure or a weak heart has had an electro-
cardiogram taken of his heart action.

The electrocardiogram records on a piece of Cardioscribe

graph paper the electrical impulses of the
heart during its various phases of contraction.
The shape and amplitude of the electrical
waves enable the doctor to diagnose accu-
rately such disorders as myocarditis, enlarge-
ment of the heart, and coronary thrombosis.

Many of our animal patients suffer from
these same disorders.

$795

Your Christmas gift to the ASPCA
Hospital and Clinic for either of these impor-
tant instruments will aid thousands of sick
animals next year and in the years to come.

An engraved plaque on the instrument will
perpetuate the memory of a departed pet,
18 relative or friend.

 

 

 




ANIMAL PROTECTION

Published three times yearly by

The American Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

Founded and Incorporated 1866

 

 

Vol. 10, No. 3

Editorial Ofﬁce: 30 East 60th Street

Winter 1956

Editor, JANICE PAPRIN

 

OFFICERS

WILLIAM ROCKEFELLER, President

WILLIAM F. MORGAN, Vice-President
JAMES H. RIPLEY, Vice-President

THOMAS D. HUGHES, Vice-President
WILLIAM A. MEYERHOFF, Treasurer
WILLIAM L. BURTON, Secretary

LOUIS REYNAL, Assistant Secretary
WARREN W. MCSPADDEN, Assistant Treasurer

BOARD OF MANAGERS

JOHN D. BEALS, JR.
WILLIAM E. BUCKLEY
JOHN W. CROSS, JR.
JAMES H. JENKINS
ROBERT L. JONES
RICHARD C. KETTLES, JR.
JOSE A. MACHADO, JR.
ALASTAIR B. MARTIN
JOSEPH B. MURRAY
HUGH E. PAINE

W. ROSS PROCTOR
WILLIAM A. ROCKEFELLER
GEORGE B. WACSTAFF

Managers Emeritus
F. AMBROSE CLARK
HENRY J. FISHER
SAMUEL R. MILBANK

 

COVER PICTURE

Santa fulﬁlls a little girl’s heart’s de-
sire, as Carol Ann Quilty, 5, nuzzles
up Close to her new Christmas pres-
ent, a pup from ASPCA’S Adoption

Service.

 

 

 

Pictures unless otherwise credited are by AI Levine

ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICES . . TRafalgaI 6-7700
441 East 92nd St., New York 28, N. Y. (York Ave.)
WARREN W. MCSPADDEN, General Manager
ARTHUR L. AMUNDSEN, Assistant General Manager
GEORGE H. TUSCHER, Director of Humane Work
BILLIE MAE JOHNSON, Secretary to Committees
THACHER, PROFFITT, PRIZER, CRAWLEY & WOOD,
Attorney and Counsel

HOSPITAL AND CLINIC FOR ANIMALS .
441 East 92nd St., New York 28, N. Y.

RAYMOND J. GARBUTT, D.V.M., Chief Veterinarian
THOMAS A. FEGAN, Business Manager

TRafalgar 6-7700

EDUCATION DEPARTMENT TRafalgar 6-7700, Ext. 31
441 East 92nd St., New York 28, N. Y. (3rd Floor)

PUBLIC RELATIONS DEPARTMENT . . . . PLaza 5-1650
30 East 60th St., New York 22, N. Y.

JUNE ELIOT, Director

MANHATTAN SHELTER . . .
441 East 92nd St., New York 28, N. Y.

FRANCIS MELVIN, District Manager

TRafalgar 6-7700

BROOKLYN OFFICE AND SHELTER
233 Butler St., Brooklyn 17, N. Y.
(between Nevins and Bond Streets)

CHARLES R. WADSLEY, District Manager

TRiangle 5-9580

BRONX OFFICE AND SHELTER

420 Morris Park Avenue, Bronx 60, N. Y.
(between Tremont Ave. and East 178th St.)

N. MICHAEL BROMLEY, District Manager

TYrone 2-8500

QUEENS OFFICE AND SHELTER
94-27 158th St., Jamaica 33, L. I.

ROBERT B. FERRIS, District Manager

REpublic 9-4041

RICHMOND OFFICE AND SHELTER GIbraltar 7-0122

4 Willow Ave., Rosebank, S. I. 5, N. Y.
WALTER L. HOLLINDE, District Manager

GLEN COVE SHELTER

. . GLen Cove 4-5913
Pratt Blvd. Ext, Glen Cove, L. I.

 

 




   
 
 
    
     
  
   

In out-patient clinic Dr. Leon Abrevaya checks
German shepherd's eye iniury.

 

Shaggy dog relaxes outside shelter with
his new master Russ Brunelli, 3.*

 

Two-story building has ramps because
animals prefer them to stairs.

Dr. Abrevaya calls ”Next” in clinic's waiting
room. Hours are 10 to 4, weekdays.*

* Daily News photos




 

   
   
   
  
   
 
   
 
   
   

 

 

 

 

Architectural ofﬁces of Alfred Easton Poor

Architect’s rendering of Cat Adoption Word
now under construction of Brooklyn Shelter

Brooklyn Cat Ward to Increase Adoptions

A Cat Adoption Ward now under con-
struction in the Brooklyn Shelter will be
a new wing of red brick, 22 feet wide by
40 feet long, adjoining the main building
at 233 Butler Street.

Three large colony cages—one for males,
one for females and one for kittens—will
be fronted by glass panels so that passerby
will be able to watch the cats at play.

The interior will be modeled after Man-

“I

hattan Shelter’s three-year-old cat ward,
which helped to quadruple cat adoptions in j
that borough. There will be toys, tunnels, ‘
shelves and tree trunks for climbing.

“We are conﬁdent this new Adoption
Ward will be a show case in which the cats
themselves will help us ﬁnd homes for them
by displaying their playful personalities,”
said ASPCA General Manager Warren W.
McSpadden.

 

 




 

White boxer gets oxygen
in emergency ambulance.

grocery and he saw the clerk use a long
stick with a grabber at the end to get a
box of cereal down from the top shelf. This
set Ryan thinking about tree-climbing cats
and eventually he came up with a wooden
pole with an adjustable leather loop at the
end. Later the poles were made of light-
weight, strong aluminum.

His “cat grabber” is now standard equip-
ment and has been copied by other humane
societies all over the country.

Another Ryan invention is a canvas dog-
sling used for lowering dogs from a roof or
window of. a burning building. At the start
of World War II the U. S. Army adopted
it as a parachute harness for canine para-
troopers.

Troublesome Horses

When Ryan joined the ASPCA in 1912,
there were 75,000 horses in Manhattan
alone. “Everyone traveled by horse power,”
he recalled, “from the milkman to the un-
dertaker. And those horses were always
getting into trouble.”

The saddest and most frustrating case
Ryan ever had involved a horse that some-
how got itself wedged under a concrete pier
in the East River. The tide was rising fast
and there was no way to get the horse out
before the water engulfed it. It was impos-
sible even to get close enough to shoot the

   

  

horse mercifully. From a police launch Ryan
finally had to destroy the animal humanely
with a rifle to put it out of its suffering~
one of the few times he failed in a rescue
attempt.

     
 
   
 

Although horses in vast numbers are no
longer part of the New York scene, those
which remain are still getting into trouble.
The Society’s 40-year-old bright red horse
ambulance roared out of the shelter just
recently to rescue a riding academy horse
deeply mired in Jamaica Bay mud and
abandoned by its rider. Ropes, pullies and
several hours work freed the animal.

(Continued on Page 24)

 
   
    
 
   
 
  

 
   
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
   

Ryan rescues cat stuck in tree.

  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Injured horse rides

  




ABOVE AND BEYOND THE CALL . . .

Three policemen, three boys and three dogs were recently awarded
ASPCA’S Medal of Honor and Certiﬁcate of Merit for outstanding bravery
and service.

Seeing Eyes for a Blind Dog l

Skippy got his award for acting as guide for another dog
named Smokey, a blind cocker spaniel Visiting his home in Tampa,
Florida. Smokey was running into difﬁculty in the unfamiliar house.
He stumbled on steps, bumped into furniture, and got lost trying

to ﬁnd his food.

Skippy seemed to notice his plight and one day picked up the
unattended end of Smokey’s leash and gently guided him outside
for a walk. The relationship has now progressed to the point where
Skippy takes his guest on one or two walks each day, guides him
to meals and nudges him to his sleeping place under a bed.

Dog Routs Bandits From Restaurant

A heroic dog which routed three bandits from its owner’s res-
taurant in Freeport, L. l., was honored. When one of three cus-
tomers pointed a pistol at Freeport Village Inn’s proprietor Tom
Sun, Mr. Sun alerted his German Shepherd King by shouting. The
furious barking of the dog, as it rushed from the kitchen, scared
off the gunman and his pals, who were later apprehended.

Boys Rescue Marooned Collie

Two boys received awards for rescuing Lucky, a three-year-old
collie. In a leaky canoe Paul Lambert, 16, and George Kilbride,
13, paddled to the aid of the dog which had fallen through the
rotten ice of Lake Lorraine in Springfield, Mass. Using the paddles
as sledges the boys smashed through about 50 feet of three-inch

ice to reach the dog, which was precariously clinging to the edge
of the surrounding ice.

Policeman Saves Blind Dog

Patrolman Joseph Chiappetta was honored for saving a blind
dog in a three-alarm Brooklyn rooming-house ﬁre. He carried the

blind Spitz down a ladder and then the dog’s elderly owner by
the same route.

 

16

 




 

 

 

 

Israel Zoo Inspired
By Noah’s Ark

Many cities have their own zoos but no-
where in the world, except in Israel, will
you ﬁnd a zoo based on Noah’s Ark—it’s
the Jerusalem Biblical Zoo.

In a tree-shaded suburb of the land of
the Bible’s most famous and sacred city
have been assembled the animals, birds, rep-
tiles and insects whose forebears gained re-
nown in. the pages of the Bible.

Here you might meet the descendants of
the raven that fed Elija in the wilderness, or
of the lion that the mighty Samson smote,
or even of the dove that Noah sent from the
Ark to seek dry land. You will also see the
wild boar of the Huleh region in Galilee and
the graceful antelopes of the northern Negev.

The unique characteristic of the Jerusalem
Zoo are the identiﬁcation plaques which bear
some of the best known quotations from the
Bible. The red-coated fox, for example, bears
the legend “Take us the foxes, the little
foxes that spoil the vines.”

The cage of the slender gazelle is identi-
ﬁed with another quotation from the Song
of Songs 2:7 “I adjure you, 0 daughters

 

Cocker spaniel shouts approval of new
cardboard case for carrying home cats and
small dogs adopted from the ASPCA. Sug-
gested by staff member Louis C. Baer, case
is so handy we wonder why no one ever
thought of it before.

 

2O

 

Committee members Mrs. Serge Walter, Mrs.
William Zeckendorf, chairman, and Mrs.
Mayson Hatch Tucker, plan seventh Animal
Kingdom Ball to beneﬁt ASPCA Adoption
Service Clinic. Goal is $10,000, needed to
maintain clinic for one year.

 

of Jerusalem, by the gazelles and the hinds
of the field.” While the big tree is adorned
with a sentence from the Proverbs: “Whoso
keepeth the big tree shall eat the fruit
thereof.”

The Ark ’56

A sale of merchandise to beneﬁt the
ASPCA Pet Adoption Service was held by
the Women’s Volunteer Division on De-
cember 4, 5 and 6. Called The Ark ’56, the
shop sold silver, jewelry, glassware, antique
china, objects d’art, paintings, prints and
small pieces of furniture.

Proceeds of the once-a-year shop will help
us secure more homes for homeless animals.

 

Prevent the birth of unwanted animals.
Have your female dog or cat spayed.

Consult your veterinarian.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Hairless Cows Born

CONNECTICUT —— A Guernsey gave
birth to two heifers which are bald. Veter-
inarians say only one in every 100,000,000
cows is born hairless.

Dog Wins Case for Mistress

DETROIT —— Fritz, a 90-pound German
shepherd, had his day in court. Fritz’s
owner brought the dog to court with her
to answer a charge that she had left her
car unattended with the motor running.
The judge dismissed the case when she
said Fritz was in the car and would have
“chewed the arm off” anyone who tried to
steal the car.

Parrot Acts as Puppy Sitter
OKLAHOMA — Polly, a 30-year-old par-

rot, usually had a sarcastic remark for any-
one and everyone, but she turned unexpect-
edly gentle when pups were born in the
household. The parrot developed a liking

for the six puppies and became a regular
pup-sitter.

Hidden Assets
BUENOS AIRES —— The demise of a

well- nurtured Argentine ostrich in the
Buenos Aires zoo brought an unexpected
legacy to his faithful keepers — a hoard of
coins carefully secreted through the years in
the old bird’s stomach. Although he died
intestate, the curator ordered distribution
of the estate — something over four pounds

12

of coins worth $10.35 —— to the deceased’s
attendants.

Pup, Lion Become Friends
MINNESOTA — A lion cub whose mother

died was put to nurse with a frowsy, old,
cross-bred dog which already had several
new-born puppies. One of these puppies
formed a life friendship with the baby lion

by the time the two of them were weaned.

From then on the little dog and the pudgy
little lion were inseparable comrades. They
ignored the rest of the litter and fraternized
only with each other.

When a local humane society, fearing for
the dog’s life, put the two friends in different
parts of the zoo, they both raised such an
uproar at the separation that they were put
back together in the same cage.

Dog Sentries Get Shoes

GERMANY — The German shepherd
dogs employed at the American Air Force
base in Landstuhl to accompany guards on
sentry duty were on sick call most of the
time. Their feet were cut and scratched and
their nails torn from the long hours spent
walking over the rough, concrete runways.

The Air Force decided that their dogs
should be shod as other military dogs have
been for mountain duty and work on the
sharp coral atolls in the Paciﬁc.

A batch of custom-made leather shoes was
ordered from a German manufacturer at

$1.15 a pair. At ﬁrst the dogs found them

 

cumbersome, but after a few trial runs they
were walking with precision.

Real Gone Cat

DES MOINES ———— An owner here spent
nearly $2,000 and traveled 3,500 miles look-
ing for his pet cat after it disappeared from
a car in northern Missouri. The owner
placed ads in newspapers and on radio sta-
tions about the missing cat. He also mailed
58,000 cards bearing Olaf’s picture to resi-
dents in 23 counties in Missouri.

When replies poured in he followed up
each one that appeared at all promising,
traveling by auto and plane to carry on his
search. It ﬁnally paid off when the cat
turned up in Paris, Missouri. P.S. Olaf
didn’t even recognize his owner.

Dog Saves Birds in Falls
NIAGARA FALLS —— A seven-year-old

cocker spaniel named Rover has rescued
some 600 sea gulls and more than 2,000
ducks from the Niagara River. Hundreds
of the birds are swept over the falls annu-
ally, mostly during fogs. Some die, but many
are merely stunned.

It’s a Cat’s Life
OKLAHOMA —— In Pottawatomie County

cats are worth more than either horses or
mules. The county assessor reported that six
cats were assessed at $25 each, while 272
horses were valued at $15 apiece and 10
mules at $10 each.

Bossy in the Well
NEW YORK —— A two~year~old prize

heifer fell ﬁfteen feet into a well on a farm
here. The farmer looked into the well, saw
his cow ﬂoating on the surface and tele-
phoned ﬁremen for help.

The volunteer ﬁre department arrived
within minutes, assessed the situation and
unrolled their hose. Within half an hour
they had pumped enough water into the
well to ﬂoat the cow to the surface. A truck
hoist was used to hike her over the edge.

Dogs Like Meat and Potatoes
BUFFALO —— A New York State College

of Agriculture nutritionist said recent ex-
perimental studies had disproved three pop-
ular theories regarding the feeding of dogs.

He reported that:

1. Dogs can eat mashed potatoes in large
amounts without harmful effects.

. Dogs will eat more cooked pork than
most people think.

. Dogs do not develop a “sugar habit”
and will reject the sweeter product for
a diet without sugar when given a
choice.

Cat Has 20th Birthday

CHICAGO —— Nineteen humans and a cat
gathered for a birthday party. The cat,
Pat, a gray and white feline was 20. That’s
the equivalent of about 140 human years.
Most cats survive only until they are 8 or 9.

13

 

 

 




 

 

Give a Junior Membership
for Christmas

Parents, grandparents, aunts, uncles and
friends: An ASPCA Junior Membership
makes a ﬁne Christmas gift for the young-
sters on your list. A $1 Membership, for
children under 18, includes:

1. A Junior Membership card
A button

Junior Jamboree in Central Park

Tour through ASPCA Hospital and
Shelter, including puppy and kitten

adoption wards

Color movies on animals

5
6. Subscription to ANIMAL PROTECTION
7 Free tickets to events in New York
8

 

Opportunity to assist the Education

 

Department in its demonstrations with

Helen Howe, 12, presents $65 to ASPCA live animals (a minimum of 50 hours

mascot Buﬁie. M-oney was raised at a pet work can earn a Junior Achievement

show she and her friends held in Wurtsboro, Award)

N. Y. Fees from 27 entries, admissions from

87 spectators and sale of soft drinks ac- __ _________ _ _______________

counted for receipts.

 

Please Remember the ASPCA
in Your Will

FORM OF BEQUEST

ASPCA Fund Raising Dept. 1956
30 East 60th Street
New York 22, N. Y.

I give and bequeath to The American

Society for the Prevention Of Cruelty Enclosed is $1 for Junior Membership for:

to Animals, a New York charitable

 

corporation having its principal ofﬁce Name PlPt --------------------
ease rln
at 441 East 92nd Street, New York,

N. Y., the sum of ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, Dollars. Address ......................................................
City ............................ Zone--- State ............

The law requires all dogs in New

York Cit , re ardless of a e, to be
y g 9 Age ______________ (Juniors must be under 18)

licensed. Send $3 to the ASPCA

shelter in your borough.

Gift of ........................................................

 

 

 

 




ASPCA

INDEX

To Our Readers
ASPCA Is Growing!
$300,000 Bronx Shelter Has Everything

Airport Shelter to Care for
Animals Between Flights

Glen Cove Shelter Our First
Outside New York City

Brooklyn Cat Ward

to Increase Adoptions . . . . . 6
Animals in Christmas Legend . . . . 7
ASPCA to the Rescue . . . . . . 8
Cruelty ~l— Economics : Action! . . . 10
Animal Antics . . . . . . . . . 12
Zoo School . . . . . . . . . . 14
Above and Beyond the Call . . . . 16
Our Hospital Needs . . . . . . . 18
The Doctor Listens . . . . . . . . 2]
Assistant Chief Veterinarian Named . . 24

More Blessed to Give . . lnside loack cover

The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals

Lerman Printing Co., N.Y.C.

 




 

 

 

 

To Our Readers

Among the many blessings the ASPCA
has to be thankful for this Christmas Season
are the unsolicited expressions of apprecia-
tion that have come in throughout the year.

Naturally we have no reason to expect a
pat on the back for looking after the welfare
of animals. This is our job, and to do it
well is an obligation. But it is always nice
to hear from people who are pleased with
our services, especially when the comments
concern members of the staff who have
added that extra personal touch to the per-
formance of duty.

And so, instead of an editorial on a
humane problem, we thought it appropriate
at this time of year to pay tribute to the
ambassadors of good-will, our staff members,
whose acts of consideration, courtesy and
kindness are acknowledged by an appreci-
ative public.

In this Hospital edition of ANIMAL PRO-
TECTION, we’ve picked out a few of the letters
addressed to this department:

From the Director of the N.Y. State
Division of Veterans’ Affairs

I want you to know how much my
wife and I appreciate the kindness and
courtesy extended to us by members of
your organization in the wonderful care
and treatment given our two cats. Mrs.
M—— was loud in her praise of the
veterinarian.

Will you kindly express to Mr. Fegan
and your staﬂ our deep appreciation.

From a Long Island Dog Owner

I have had dogs for ﬁfteen years,
and had many occasions to visit veter-

inarians, but never have I received such
understanding attention, and never has
any dog of mine received such con-
scientious treatment. I am most grate-
ful to you, and will see that Christmas
brings an additional contribution to my
animal friends this year.

Insofar as the dog is concerned, Dr.
Johnson is experimenting with hor-
mones, but promises nothing.

If the dog is beyond help, at least I
discovered the true merits of your or-
ganization first-hand.

From a Motion Picture Producer

Recently our white Persian cat to
whom my wife and I had grown quite
attached fell from our seven story apart-
ment window at 5 a.m. Since no local
vet was available, I brought the animal
to your beautiful 92nd Street building
and thus had my ﬁrst contact with your
organization.

The very fact that at that ungodly
hour of the morning there was some-
one on hand, coupled with the cour-
teous, considerate and expert care re-
ceived from your people made me want
to write this appreciative letter.

Although unfortunately our pet was
too badly injured to pull through, I feel
that all those many people who own
pets and love them owe a special debt

of gratitude to the ASPCA and I for

one want to say a grateful thank you.

To the senders of these letters, to the staff
which inspired them, and to all our loyal
members and contributors the Board of
Managers has asked me to say: “A Very
Merry Christmas and a Joyous New
Year.”

WW

General Manager

 




Airporl Sheller +0 Care for

Animals bel'ween Fligh’rs

Lease for $180,000 Animalport at Inter-
national Airport is signed by ASPCA Presi-
dent William Rockefeller and John R. Wiley,
Director of Aviation of the Port of New
York Authority, operator of the airport.
Looking on is former ASPCA president,
Hugh E. Paine.

In the shelter, scheduled for completion in
1957, ASPCA will provide proper facilities
for the thousands of animals transported
by air to and from the Airport each year.

 

 

 

( Continued fr am Page 3) Avenue, in Manhattan. Until now, our vet-
erinary services were available here only.

Soft background music has been found to
calm otherwise excitable animals, and is
piped through a public-address system. to
every corner of the shelter. Food is pre-
pared in a streamlined dietary kitchen, and

Visiting pets may quench their thirst at a

already increased substantially—undoubted-
ly due to these display kennels.

Each kennel throughout the building has
immediate access to a large, outdoor exer-
cise run. And in an attempt to include
everything which would bring comfort to

l the shelter’s guests we have equipped each
i outdoor run with a cast-off New York City
ﬁre hydrant, newly painted in red.

constantly running outdoor fountain.
Among the services rendered Bronx ani-
mal owners the shelter issues dog licenses,

 

 

 

 

At the request of Bronx residents we have
included an out-patient veterinary clinic,
where examinations are conducted and
minor injuries treated at a nominal fee.
The clinic has been so busy that we have
had to increase the original staff to handle
the number of cases. Hours are 10 a.m. to
4 p.m., Monday through Friday. Serious
cases are transferred to the Society’s Hos-

pital and Clinic at 92nd Street and York

4

receives reports of cruelty, accepts reports
of lost pets, takes unwanted pets for adop-
tion and maintains space for dogs or cats
during bite case examinations by the De-
partment of Health.

The structure of red brick and white
marble-faced block, occupying 10,960 square
feet of land, was planned by the architec-
tural ofﬁces of Alfred Easton Poor and built
by George Hoffman and Sons.

 




 
   

animals in

Clam...” W

almost every country has its legend about birds and animals

 

at Christmas time.

 

In Belgium people believe that young
wrens return to the nests where they were
born at midnight on Christmas Eve—just
as children gather with their parents.

People in Spain show special favors to
their cattle, goats and sheep. They are given
fresh straw for their beds and extra feed
and drinking water. The people tell of how
the cows breathed on the Christ Child to | . ._ _ $513.99...“
keep him warm. ' ' f f 2W"!

Throughout Europe people tell their
children that from midnight to noon of
Christmas animals are given human voices
so that they too may praise God. In Scot-
! land it’s told that the bees can be heard

singing in their hives.
\\ / The Germans, Swiss and Poles say that
\ A // cattle and horses in the stables and the deer
\ -<'. > in the forest kneel at the magical hour of

///V§ midnight. Their faces turn to the sky.

‘
‘l

 

 

American children, of course, believe
Santa comes by reindeer, but in Holland a
l favorite legend says St. Nicholas rides a
beautiful gray horse when delivering gifts
to children. Before they go to bed, children
set out water, carrots and hay for the
horse.

In Syria it is a camel that travels over
the desert lands delivering presents to the
children on Christmas Eve. Norwegian chil-
dren ﬁll a shoe with barley for the Christ-
mas Ram who brings their gifts.

Another Christmas legend tells how
the robin got his red breast. The story says
the robin fanned the fire in the cold stable
to warm the Christ Child. He ﬂuttered his
wings over the ﬁre until at last the ﬂames
reﬂected on his breast. A voice said: “You
may wear the color of ﬂame forever.”

 

 




 

 

  
  

Improper handling causes costly bruises.

ACH year $2 billion in meat losses is
drained from the pockets of American
consumers. Cattle diseases, parasites, death
and injuries result in the loss of one out of
every ten farm animals.

Coupled with this huge economic waste is
the suffering endured by cattle, hogs and
sheep caused by these scourges of the live-
stock industry.

For many years humane societies tried
through various means to reduce this suf-
fering —-— for protection of livestock is a
vital phase of humane work. But until re-
cently injuries, diseases and parasites were
considered inevitable hazards of the meat
industry.

Not today. Leaders in the industry itself,
stunned by the huge waste, now recognize
that most meat losses are 90 percent man-
made — caused by carelessness and mis-
handling. They have banded together to do
something about it. An organization called
Livestock Conservation, Inc., is the result.

LCI, with head ofﬁces in Chicago, the hub

10

  

Cruelty

lIII
Economics

ACTION!

of the livestock industry, has undertaken a
broad program of research and education
among all groups in the meat industry to
promote better handling and to help control
disease and parasites.

Its members include representatives from
meat packers, stockyards, railroads, farm or-
ganizations, federal and state departments of
agriculture, colleges, livestock producers,
dairymen, truckers, insurance companies,
veterinary groups, newspapers and humane
groups.

Humane societies have put their full co-
operation behind the program. They are be-

Photos by Livestock Conservation, Inc.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
   

 
  
   
   
 

  

 




 

 

 

 

 

Linda Gaudioso, 3, visiting ASPCA’s classroom menagerie recently, gets
to know our gentle Persian cat Misty, one of the children's favorites.

yr‘A .ﬂ




 

 

 

Life Magazine Photo

Skippy and owner, Mrs. Dorothy Lee, in
Tampa, Florida, receive telegram informing ., ; a ., . ~' . ' . ‘ '
them Skippy would receive ASPCA Medal. Dallas News Photo

I Jeffrey Berns, 12, of Dallas, Texas, receives
l his medal from Dallas' Mayor R. L. Thornton.
, Jeffrey saved his 13-year-old cocker spaniel's
life by iumping into an abandoned well 20
feet deep with four feet of water. He held the
dog's head above water until firemen arrived.

 

ASPCA volunteer Mrs. Walter P. Chrysler, Jr. pre-
sents medal to RinTinTin, the famous dog actor, in
recognition of his response to training by kindness
and his outstanding movie and TV performances.

Patrolmen Francis Donohue and John Clahane saved a
homeless 50-pound female boxer that had fallen through
thin ice in Brooklyn's Prospect Park.

 

 

 




 

 

   
 
  

ll

~ '1'- \OR LlSTENFbw

/

 

 

 

 

The Female Dog

by 5. Howard Padwee, D.V.M.
ASPCA Hospital and Clinic

Spaying

Spaying is a major operation performed
on female dogs to make them sterile. This
operation involves removing the uterus and
ovaries. The dog is given a general anes-
thetic and strict aseptic technique is used.

After spaying, the animal will no longer
come into heat or be able to become preg-
nant and will no longer attract male dogs.
It is strongly recommended that female dogs
be spayed unless they are going to be bred.

Spaying will not change the dog’s disposi-
tion or make her sluggish. She will continue
to be a perfect pet with the same intelligence.
Many people have the false impression that
after a dog is spayed she will become obese.
In the majority of cases the main cause of
overweight is too much food.

The dog can be spayed at any age, but the
ideal time is at ﬁve or six months, or just
before she comes into heat the ﬁrst time.

Pyomefra

Pyometra is a disease of the uterus usu-
ally encountered in maiden bitches over ﬁve.
The uterus becomes distended, with pus-
like or bloody discharge from the vagina.
The condition requires immediate attention.
Generally the only successful treatment is
the surgical removal of the uterus.

False Pregnancy or Pseudocyesis

False pregnancy sometimes occurs in non-
spayed females 50 or 70 days after the close
of the heat period. Symptoms are the usual
weight gain of pregnancy and enlargement
of the breasts which become engorged with

milk. She may be off her feed, irritable,
cry, make a bed, play with her toys, bones
or an old shoe as if they were puppies.

If your dog displays these symptoms have
her treated by a veterinarian. Hormone
therapy will correct false pregnancy.

Mammary Tumors

Breast tumors are very common in female
dogs over six. Since these tumors are often
malignant, medical attention is important as
soon as swelling of the breasts is observed.

If these tumors are removed by surgery
in the early stages, there will be no detri-
mental eifect. If they are not removed, the
malignancy may spread to the lungs.

Breeding

A female dog should not be bred before
her second heat period because she is not
completely developed until after one year.

When the bitch comes into heat, the ﬁrst
obvious sign is a swelling of the external
genital organs and a bloody discharge from
the vagina. About the twelfth day the dis-
charge changes to straw color. This is the
correct time to breed the dog. At this time
the female will accept the male.

During breeding the male and female
should be left undisturbed in a small room.
If it is the ﬁrst breeding, a person familiar
with dog breeding should supervise. Breed-

ing time is twenty minutes to a half hour.

Gestation

The time it takes the bitch to have her
puppies after she is bred is about 63 days.
As the gestation nears its end her abdomen
will grow and her breasts will become en-
larged.

Just before the bitch gives birth she will
act uneasy and sometimes make a bed. She
will go off her feed and body temperature
will drop below normal. After this, labor will
occur and the puppies will be born.

When the bitch goes into labor she will
have abdominal contractions. If this occurs
and no puppies are born, or if the bitch does
not go into labor 63 days after she has
been bred, consult your veterinarian.

21

 




Dr. John E. Whitehead

Assistant Chief
Veterinarian Named

We are proud to announce the appoint-
ment of Dr. John E. Whitehead as Assistant
Chief Veterinarian of ASPCA’s Hospital and
Clinic.

With our Hospital serving more and more
patients each year—a record 30,000 in
1956 —— we are pleased to have a veterina-
rian of Dr. Whitehead’s background and
experience to assist Dr. Raymond J. Gar-
butt, Chief Veterinarian heading our staff
of nine doctors.

In the past several years we have devel-
oped a more diversiﬁed hospital program,
including our Daynemouth Ward for com-
municable diseases and our laboratory for
clinical analysis. Dr. Whitehead, who joined
the hospital staff in 1954, is especially quali-
fied in these fields. He has done his most
important work as clinician in the diseases
of small animals and is particularly inter-
ested in radiography and clinical pathology.

He obtained his veterinary degree at the
School of Veterinary Medicine, University
of Pennsylvania. Following his internship
at the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital in
Boston, he was in private practice in Hart-
ford, Connecticut.

24

A member of the American, the New
Jersey and the New York City Veterinary
Medical Associations, Dr. Whitehead also
belongs to several veterinary honor groups
and fraternities.

He saw almost four years of active duty
with the Air Force in Europe and North
Africa and holds a Veterinary Reserve Corps
commission in the Air Force.

Dr. Whitehead has written a number of
papers on veterinary problems concerning
dogs and cats and is now working on sev-
eral studies, including research on diseases
of the canine eye.

ASPCA to the Rescue
( Continued from Page 9 )

Most emergency calls nowadays involve
small animals. Latest sleek white ambu-
lances that go out on these jobs are equipped
with oxygen tank, stretcher, ﬁrst aid kits,
amber signal ﬂasher, two-way radio and
portable spotlights. Almost 86,000 times last
year one or more of the Society’s 53 cars
raced through the streets to an emergency.

Thousands of emergency cases come into
ASPCA’s Hospital each year. “Poisoned,
suffocated, burned, fractured, stabbed —— we
get them all,” said Ryan. Day and night
veterinary skill and modern equipment work
to pull them through. An oxygen tank re-
vives suffocated animals. A resuscitator fa-
cilitates an animal’s breathing during emer-
gency operations. A special forceps removes
foreign objects stuck in an animal’s throat.

On call 24 hours a day, seven days a
week, Ryan lives in a three-room apartment
in the Manhattan Shelter with his wife May.
Seldom does a night pass that he’s not sum-
moned at 2 or 3 am. to rescue an animal
in distress somewhere in New York City.

“After 26 years of married life my wife
is used to being an ASPCA widow,” said
Ryan, who estimates he has saved a total
of 15,000 animals in his 44 years as an

ASPCA Agent.

 




