. .. nmnonosnrrs occur". a. . sum-us. 27

gur~i,§¢“lhng not only the duty of humminv m. but the proper

mm d dealing with and treating, the dumvstti- wimls and
their diseases, by organizing societies of when pledged to aid
in the prevention of cruelty to them. and by the employment
of agents to aid in enforcing the laws on this subject, are legiti~
mete means of effecting the general object indicated by its
name. The society is also engaged in erecting and maintaining
a. hospital {or homeless, neglected. and abused animals, where
they may be kindly sheltered or humanely disposed of, which
is also an appropriate mode of aiding in the prevention of cm:
elty to them. The act of incorporation must have contem—
plated all the legitimate and appropriate means of effecting
this obﬁct. which were of a. general character, and capable oi
inﬂuencing the public.

The society may be properly defined as both benevolent and
charitable. By the St- of 1868, c. 212, § 8, all lines collected.
upon “the complaint or information of any ofﬁcer or agent of
the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals. under this act, shall inure and be paid over to said
society in mid of the benevolent objects for which it was in“;
corporated." The same section is reenacted in the St. of 1869,
c. 344, § 7. In terms, therefore, the Legislature has recognized
the objects of the society as “benevolent.”

Without discussing the question whether the word “benevo—
lent " is used as substantially synonymous with “charitable,"
or disjunctively. we are of opinion that the society also comes
within the deﬁnition of a charity. There is no proﬁt or pecu-
niary beneﬁt~ in it for any of its members; its work, in the
education of mankind in the proper treatment of domestic ani-
111313, is instruction in one of the duties incumbent on us as
human beings. There are charitable societies whose objects are
to bring mankind under the inﬂuences of humanity, education,
and religion. .I’ackson v. Phillips, 14 Allen, .589. The hospital
founded by the institution would, if it were established by a
bequest, or public or private gift, be treated as a charity. It
has a humane, legal, and public, or general purpose, and whether
. expressed or not in the St. of 43 Eliz. c. 4, which is the foun-
dation of our law on the subject of charities, comes within
the equity of that statute. Ureason’: appeal, 30 Penn. St. 437.

 




Dr. Whitehead reported that at a prior meeting with the Executive
Committee of the New York City Veterinary Medical Association and with the
Chairman of the Ethics Committee, it was concluded that the advertising of
more than one visit in the Society's printed leaﬂet constituted a "treatment
plan” which was contrary to the Veterinary Code of Ethics.

He also presented a plan previously discussed with management
which provided for one free visit comprising a veterinary examination and
consultation with the new pet owner plus a temporary immunization of the

animal at no cost to the owner.

Mr. McSpadden stated that he felt that most veterinarians could find
little or no disagreement with the Society's efforts to give out healthy pets and
that he was unable to see that our Adoption Service Clinic arrangements consti—
tuted a "treatment plan“ or was in violation of the ethical code. He further
explained that through the Clinic he felt the Society was helping to make pet owners
"veterinary conscious. " Mr. McSpadden explained the role of the women volun—

teers and that unless they could give publicity to the objective of their fund-raising
they had little to work on.

(3) In introducing the subject of the Bronx Clinic, Mr. Nichols
explained its purposes and that it was of assistance to the Society in meeting

charitable and Adoption Service Clinic needs. He also stated that perhaps there
was an area for compromise in having Bronx veterinarians staff it as we are

doing at the Animalport. This suggestion was turned down by the private veteri—
narians.

Dr. Whitehead then asked the veterinarians how they would react if
we abolished the Bronx Clinic altogether. This was met with spontaneous approval
by the private veterinarians. He then asked if we did that, would we be given
assurance that we could follow our own course in the Main HOSpital and Clinic
without interference by the veterinarians.

There seemed to be some approval of this, one of the veterinarians
remarking that there was ”little trouble with the ASPCA when it confined its
activities to its HOSpital. ” At this point, however, Mr. Greenawalt brought up
the basic contention of the veterinarians that the ASPCA was practicing veterinary
medicine illegally and that if this applied to the Bronx Clinic it also applied to the
Hospital. He pursued this legal point at length but without assistance or ampli-
fication from the veterinarians. Mr. McSpadden had the feeling they would settle

for giving up the Bronx Clinic -- but not if Mr. Greenawalt is able to persuade
them otherwise.

 

 




Mr. Rockefeller

.755. On April 30, {me 91? mar auaeemem, an animal
imgmrter, caumﬁ w say that the veterinarimm
had asked. him mat m traée with the JMQéﬁf-Clﬁﬁ a
told them he wcuid not change, that he thouzmt
”the Animalgmrt 11$ wunﬁerful and everymw ahipn
ping animam aimmm 2.1% it. “

i322 mm 2'22, Mrss. Haucke am}. I agspaaretﬁ baimre
the Boavd 0i“ Trwmem 95 the Village 522‘? Eabba
Ferry in cmmectwm with the ranewal inf an}?
cantraat m begin June 1. Amwng sham agagearu

ing againﬁt the $333345: was Dr. Marian Leighton,

a veterinarian {3i Debbs Fgrry, ami a membar M
the Westcheswr ﬁgumy Veterinayy Madical ﬁaciaty.

There 1mm much quéémmn but Wham ma garivajzm V‘eaztermariama
are actively tryimg to hurt mt: by these. attackﬁ.

Sincareiy,

WﬁRREN w. mwzﬂmﬁ

General Mmagér
W‘WMcﬁ / in ‘

 




THACH ER, PROFFITT, PRIZER,CRAWLEY & WOOD
JOHN C. PRIZER

(BARRY, WAINWRIG HT, THAOHER & SYMMERs) COUNSEL

TELEPHONE: BOWLING GREEN 9-5IOO
HENRY W. PROFF'TT CABLE ADDRESS“WALLACES NEW YORK”
JOHN C. CRAWLEY
PAUL L. CLUGSTON

J. FRANK WOOD
HOWARD B. NICHOLS 4O WALL STREET

JOHN w. WHEELER
GEORGE T. KEYES NEW YORK 5, N.Y.

EDWARD C. KALAIDJIAN
KURT W. LORE

March 3, 1958

w *liem Rockefeller, FQQ.,
.0 Exchange Place,
.5? My. Rockefeller:

For your information I am enclosing photoetets

decision quoted in‘igw Fiec1er'e letter

of February 21, 1958 concerning the pow-‘ the.ﬁ.S.P.C.A. -

M.S.P.C.l. 5. City of Boston, 142 MaSS-

 




DAVIES» EARL)? & “SHE““CK
(Davies9 SSSLbSSh.& COSSSLL)

GSS Hall SLESSL
NSS YSrk 5

HSVSmbSS 7’ 1957

VSLSVLSLLS MSSLSSL SLSS~LLLLSS Sf R E C E I V E D
SSS SLSSL

veierL ML LmiLS ~ SSV 7 193?

CSmSlS SS ﬁgalmwt ASSSLSSS LSSLSLS

fer LhS PISSSSLLSS Sf CSSSLLy LS

ASLSSLS

DSSS Mr. NLShSLS:

IS SSS LSLLSS Sf MSy L, L95? LS L:hS ASL, MSS QSSLSLy
for LSS PLSVSSLLSS Sf CLSSLL:y L:S AWLW‘LS we SLSLSS? SLSSISLLSL SSS
SSLSLS Sf the SSmSLSLSL of the VSLSLLSSry SSSLSLLSS SSSLSSL SSS
AmSSLSSn SSSLSLy fur the PSSVSSLLSS of Cruelty L0 SSLSSLS SSSSLLLSLS
S SLSSLLSS Sf VSLSLM SSry deLSLSS LS VLSLSLLSS SL LSS SSS SE SSSSLSL
SSLSSSSS and SSLL SS, At the SSSfSreSSS held LS SSS SffLSS SS LSSS 25,

mg L; .N All.

19573 SL thSh SSSLSSSSLSLLVSS SL LhS various VSLSLLSSSS SSSLSLLSS
r1?

met SLLS ySS and MS; RSSkaSLiSSL LSSSS SSS SLSLSS LS SSSS dSLSLL the
praSLiSeS and SStLthLSs to ShLSh the VSLSLLSSSLSSS SSS ijﬁﬂﬁinga

Ld nSt
Sr SSSStly

The bSSLS objection LS LhSL the ALS.PLC.S. SSSLL
engage in the SSSSL LSS 0f VSLSLLSSLy mSSLSLSe and LhSL LL LS
doing SS. ILS ShSLLSr doeS SSS gLVS LL SSS SSSh SSSSSS SSS SS SSrSSr~
SLLOS in this SLSLS LS SeLmLLLSd SLSSSLLS Sr LSdLSSSLLy, LS SSSSLLSS
veterLSaLy medicine.

Amgﬂg Lhe SSQQ LfL 43$ ::~;S :4? '" H'L’ SSSLSSSSSS
SSSS the LOLLSLL g:

1. TSS ALS.PLC.S. L,7 . _,L
SSSSLLSSS SS Sﬁayiﬂga “SSS“SLLSSL VSSSASSLWS9 .LLL
LLSSLSSSL SS ”*SgSLy LS SSSSLSMLLSL SLSLS Sf SLhLSh LKLLLS S SSganSd

SLLhSr SS of «S SwargSSSy SS LSSSLL bLS SSLSSSLL ﬁt: LS LSSSLSSS

LSkS SSS SSSLLLSS LhSL LhSSL ﬁ}”gwﬁiC€S ShSSLd bS

he

1!

Lo EVSS were LL LS be SS meLd LhSL L:hS ADS “C A may
ro.Ser SSSSSS LS the ~LSSLLL1S SL LL SSLLSLW mSLLSLSS LS SSSJSSL of
L a 43') «'7 v ,
SergSSSS SSS SSSSL;SS1S SS SS {WLLSL, L ”in, S.»;, LS SSL SSSS SdSS
by the VSLS Llﬂmkl&ﬂw)9 the LSLLLLSSLV SSLL S;« SS_ PMS‘ by LhS A S P C
LLmLLSS LS SSSLDSSSV SSS “LLLSSLS :SJS: LSLS SLLCSLSL fSL GK"
Pram Lhﬁ P“LLVLLLIW~“ SL LSS L.LoP C.A. Suﬁ LSSm.LLS {16$ thSL
L P LEE-1’. S L: * ‘2: :13 i. LM 1 {LP P LL Cy LLLLCL
‘ S“ " ‘ *"°' LS? SL8»

(1911“
4‘}, 32‘ 1.}

L y
..;.och.L o(::i“3o

 




Mr. Greenawalt envisions the ASPCA and all other humane society
Operated veterinary establishments in the State as limiting their activities to
the care of their own animals. It is doubtful that he would even concede chari—
table practice because he mentioned that private veterinarians were ”able and
willing to provide all charitable needs. " In his view it is illegal for humane
societies to practice veterinary medicine on any scale whatever that could be
considered in competition with private veterinarians. He looked straight at
Mr. McSpadden, stating that ”If the ASPCA persists in this, we are warning
you now that it is going to be very hard on animals and your organization. "

Other items came up such as Spaying, castrations, charges, chari—
table work, vaccinations, etc. , but no conclusions were reached. It was evident
that Mr. Greenawalt considered all discussion of such matters of minor signifi-

cance in the light of the basic issue that the ASPCA should not be in veterinary
medicine at all.

Although we assured the Veterinarians that we had no further plans
for expansion of our veterinary facilities, they nevertheless expressed fear
and apprehension that we would expand. They considered the bill to amend our
charter in the Legislature as proof they were right in their assumption. It was

difficult to ascertain whether they accepted Mr. Nichols' explanation of why the
bill was put in and the subsequent amendment of it.

Mr. Greenawalt stated on two or three occasions in the conference
that he and the veterinarians were expecting the ASPCA to come up with some-
thing in the nature of a compromise or plan that would resolve the differences

and that they understood Messrs. Rockefeller and Nichols were going to try to
do this.

WARREN W . McSPADDEN

 




Dr . Zimmerman

I honestly believe that the A.S.P.C.A. in Now‘York City. Spoyor Hoopital
and Bide-AdWco have done a maginificont job public-rolatiouwiao to make pot
owners aware of the facilities for their pets and in so doing they have helped
.ooch and every small animal practitioner. Let those organizations be your

friends, not your onomioo. They aro here to stay. They servo a useful purpose
and their reputation is such that they enjoy a clean house.

Before I close, I wish to comment on Friends of Animals, Inc. To my
knowledge, correspondence between that organization and the Veterinary Medical
Association of Now York City has been going on for almost one year. When thoir
organization asks to be allowed to Speak before this organization after a whole
year's correspondence, there has been bickering and hair splitting discussion
and waste of time. The American way~is the democratic way. Even a thief has
his day in court and is heard before a judge. But by this learned and considorate
and fair minded group of veterinarians, never once has the courtesy been extonoed
to let a member of that organization speak before our erudite body.

I feel sure that any questions in your minds can be answered for you first
hand instead of through committee reports for further correspondence. It seems
to me to be the most democratic way. You, on the other hand, have seemed to me
to be most undemocratic in that you have shown an unwillingness to extend any courtesy
and decency to that organization. Are you afraid or are you close minded?

It is most painful to me to address this letter in this tone to you, my
colleagues, whom I have known and been associated with those 25 yoars in our
professional work but I have always been forthright in trying to_be fair, honest,
sincere and open minded. Repeating, it grievoo me to see this most unnecessary ,
seed of hysteria being planted and constantly chewed on at eVery business meeting
to the exclusion of any discusoiou of new busineso.

Host sincerely,
ls/ MARK grammars, D.V.M.

Mark Stornfels, 9.V.M.

 




7

3. TQQ VQ1Q11QQ11QQQ 1 jQP1 10:21 QQQViQQQ Q3 Eﬂﬁlﬁ Qf the
{ﬁthiQQ Service C11Q1Q Q1 1QQ 1.302._ 14 by hn‘”u pngQnQ th .Q1Q1 animQ1Q
QEQ 1QQ1QQ11Q1 ®1vQQ vw1111ra1y RN? 1;. 1y thQ A,S.Puﬂ.10 for Q pQ11QQ of timQ
QQQ EQ111Qm1QQ1 QQS1.1QQ 111Q116;211 Q1jQQ1 1Q 1hQ QQ1le1thent and main-
1» 9119 of QQQ11:Q113 Q" the 1.1 2 f H 1 1QQ1QQ1Qg new QQQ propQQQQ Shelters,
"Q 1::1QQ VQ1Q11QQ1y Q~1V1QQ Q11hw111 1QwQ01Q1 IQ :h1Q QQQQQQtiQQ the veter~
11111Q ‘QyprnQQeQ 1hQ viQQ 1111 QQy 19g111ma1e VQ1911QQ1y WQrk 1QQ1 might be
geiermed by th A.3. F 3.Q. QQQQ1Q QQ W fo1mwQ Q1, 13 11m116d 1Q, 11$
Q2QQ 811Q11 Q1QQQQ.

Q“ 11 was pQ1Q1QQ QQ1 by 1hQ'VQ1:Q15 1QQS that the 1.8.1. C. A.,
1Q QQ1111Q of 11S WTJCELCUS QQQ QQ11V111QQ, dQQQ Q1 1Q1dQ by 1;hQ QQQQ Qf
Q1Q1QQ QQQ Q1Q1Q 1QQQ which Q1Q Q1QQ1Qg on member: Q1 the VQ1011Q11y wrafessie .

T1Q QQQQQ 18 QQ1 1Q1QQQQQ 1Q bQ Q QQQQ1Q1Q Q1Q1Qmen1 01 the
QQjQQ11Q Q1; Q1 1QQ VQEQILQQViQQQ 1Q 1hQ QrQQQQ1 p111 QQQ QQQ Q111v111QQ of the
19S.P.CQQ., bQ1 mQrQly a suanxw Q1 QQQQ Q1 11%: mW 11Q1Q which QQra dischQed

r

. .. v.11. . " . a, — ., ”at“ -,
Q1 1QQ £1111 QQQ1Q1QQQQ meld QQ 1Q» 21, 195?.
‘1 [w “ 11-. <1“ + s v" 9 In '1 "0 H's r, -\. "n f f (I 1‘1. i T
. x a (Md: 1QQ p1QQ11QQ Q1 QQ111111 1Q1113QQ11QQ£
QQQ QQQQ QQQ 1 Q1 '3 *QngQQ 0y EQQ “FQCthC” .13 Q111v11111 Qf EHQ 1.80PQC.A.,

QQ11Q QQQQ1 1:.0 ; ~ eneral QQ111QQ11 that 1QQQQ p111111wﬁ QQQ Q11131111QQ QQQQQ
thQ W"V1111Q1§ 11QQ Q1 largQ.

The p‘QQQQQ Q1 thang 1QQQQ an1 1Q1QQQ thwQQ rQQrQQQQtQtiVQQ
Q1 1QQ 1QQ Q1QQQQ 1Q 10 QQQQQVQr 1:0 reach QQmQ QQmeQ grQQQQ QQQ QQQQQQ1QQQ1Q§
QQ 1Q QQQ QQQQQQ Qphere Qf QQ1:1V11‘QQ Qf 1he th grQQQQ 1Q 1h1Q S1QEQ. ThQQQ
llWQ Q1QQQQ erQQQy have much in QQmen QQQ 1Q thQ QQQt QQVQ :Vidﬁnced a Qesira
1Q 11111Q 11QQ QQ1 thQir diffﬂrﬁnfé1. WQ bQ11QVQ that 1bQ Q16u1n1 Q1Q1m Qt thQ

A as Y

f91Q11FQ1ldﬁ» 1Q QQ111Q1y justif1Qd 110m 1hQ .EQQQQ whiQQ QQVQ come 1Q1Q Qur
pQQQQQQ1QQ. EQQy QQQQ imprQsQQd QQQQ QQ QQQ U1 1gQQQy QQQ 11111 1me11QQQQ Qf
1hQ mQ11Q1 1Q 1th. QQ are hQQQ5Q1 1QQ1 by 1QQ QQQ€111Q42 mchQQ QQQ QQQQQQQ
Q11711 QQQQ QQ1QQQQ the tQQ grQQpQ mQy 1Q 1QQQ1VQQ 2111 1.11Q111y, QQQ 1f 1h11
1Q11Q, 1QQ QQ1y alternative W111 bQ m0 1Q d1a111e Q1 QtziQQ.

1 am Sure 1he A.S. P.C.Qo QQQ ~.A.: 1'1711: m1QQ QQQLQQleQ WQQ1Q
Q01 91;QQQQ 1QQ VE1“’1HPKJ prOfESS ion 1Q Q1111:~ a..Q1;511 I; 11QQ11QQ‘ and QQt1v1~
11QQ QQ1Qh1th QQQQQQ as QQQ3111Q11Qg 1hQ .‘,15,(Q yp .1; :1y medicine QQQ
QQ Qamag1Q0 1Q11Q11QQQ 1n thQ11 1Q3111QQ10 '

1 am QQQding 1Q you QQ1QQ11h Q QQQy 01 QQQ QQQQQQ whiQh I have raw
Qeived regardimQ jQiQQ meeting” 3 be1QQQQ QQQQQQQQ1Q111QQ Q1 QQQ humane societies
and 1he veterinary profes 25103 QQlQ 1n 1928 1Q CﬂﬁﬁeﬂtiQ 1Q with QQmehat similQr
QQQQ110QQ. These were referred 10 a1 tQQ meeting 01 JQQQ 251h and yQu and
Mr. Rockefeller indicated that 1193@ 1928 maatings had QQQQQ Qome to your
attentiome
VQ1y 11w11 11w:

911111711113 9 1.1;; gm.
By: 311111? 11:1 L
1hﬂchﬂra 21111111, 1112113 CQQQ1QQ Q QQQQ
£3 W311 $11QQ1
QQQ 1Q11 5, ﬂew 1011

“p111 Q111Q Q1 EQQQ1d 2.11’11110111a

11‘1”}5"

 




PEABODY, anowu , ROWLEY a. STOREY

cHAnLcsnnowLn zou oavousmns STREET w. RODMAN PEABODY
COIAILEI uncut? .

neoo -— n94:
comuw arisen-mu

mum: n. POKROI. . HOWARD We BROWN
mum: [TRAFFORO 1902 - :954

ovum amt-non: .. BOSTON l0-

AWARRIN “MINOON

JOIIPH IPA"?
DAVIDIHJOARTIN TELEPHONE
LEON COIOCK

NARIOILDIAY _ ' . February 21, 1958

HILVIN 'l IROI

; ‘9.
Howard R. Nichols, Esq., <Eg;
Thacher, Proffitt, Prizer Crawley & Wood, ‘31 p,%&
40 wall Street,- v '” \QJ
New York 5, New York.

Dear Mr. Nichols:

Dr.Hansen has referred to me your letter of February 18,
for answering the legal points raised. He, or his chief
of staff, can tell you how far from the truth all the

assertions of the New'York veterinarians are with reference
to the Boston facts.

There has never been a legal determination that
Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals is, or is not,practising veterinary medicine,
or that it is legal, or illegal, for it to do so. Its
charter does not mention it.‘ In fact, its charter powers
are merely those implied by its name. It was incorporated
by a Special Act (Chapter 81 of 1868). Its powers under
this Act are discussed in detail in the case of MSPCA v
Qity of Boston, 142 Mass. 24.

Nor do our General Laws clearly define any limitationsw*ff
on the practice of veterinary medicine. In fact, Chapter 112,5;
Section 59, by implication, recognizes the propriety of such '
practice. It says, "......or any registered veterinarian or ‘
incorporated veterinary hospital or company who or which employs
or permits a person to practice veterinary medicine unleSS ~
~such person is registered......shall be punished by having
'his licenSe to practice veterinary medicine revoked, or its
license to Operate.a veterinary hospital suspended, as the
case may be"..... vOne queer legislative oversight is
Napparent.f This section has a disciplinary provision,
"provided, that any corporation violating any provision
ofSections fifty-five to sixty, inclusive, in addition
to having its licensesuspended as aforesaid, shall be
_punished by the fine herein provided for such violation, _
~and its officers, owners or managers concerned in the violation
shall be puniShed by the fine or imprisonment herein provided
for such viOIation,for both." However, nowhere in our KY
statutes oanf e find any provision for licensing a veterinary
hospital.f In fact, all the Society's veterinarians are "
"licensed and neither of its hospitals are.

 




24 MAY, 1886.

“’here a. street was laid out, but not: ordered to be completed
nor any act done equivalent thereto, which was necessary under
the right given to the town of Boston in the laying out of streets
in South Boston, in order to make, its title perfect, it. was held
that; there could be no adverse. possession by the, landowner. as
his possession was perfectly consistent with the rights of the
town. Hens/law v. .[Iunting, 1 Gray, 20:3, 218. Arnold v. Ste-
vens, 21 Pick. 106.

The, plaintiff contonda that Widen waived the security to which
he was entitled. If he did so, it was only to the. extent to which
he permitted the railroad to use the l'dlld. He did not waive
his right to use this crossing. llo certainly could not, have been
sued in trespass by the. railroad corporation for crossii'ig the. rail~
road. because he permitted it to use the. road. His permission
to the, corporation wont no further than those acts which ho
allowed. nor had he waived or surrcnderod his right. to do that
which he actually did. Exceptionr overruled.

MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION or CRUELTY
T0 ANIMALS v3. CITY or Bosron.

Suffolk. March low-May .11, 1886. MORTON, C. J., did not sit.
W. ALLEN & HoLMni-i, JJ., absent.

By the Sc. of 1868, r. 81. certain persons were incorporated as the “Massachusetts
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Ani'mala, ” but the objects and purposes
were not deﬁned otherwise than hy the title of the act. By the St. of l868.
c. 212, § 8, roénacled in the Sr. of 184.39, r: 344, § 7, all ﬁnes collected upon the
complaint, or information of any oﬂicer or agent of the corporation under that.
statute are to he paid over to the corporation “ in aid of the benevolent object:
for which it was incorporated.” The methods adopted by the corporation are
the gratuitous dissemination of papers and essays, and the delivery of free loo-
turesz. setting forth the pmper treatment of animals; the organiution of societiea
whose mmnbers are pledged to the prevention of cruelty to animals: the em-
ploymont of agents to aid in enforcing tlw laws upon the mbject ; and the erec.
tion and maintenance of a free hospital for homeless, neglected, diseased, or
abused animals, where they may be kindly cared for or humanely disposed of.
Held, that the mrporation mu a “benevolent. ” and ”charitable ” institution,
within the Pub. Stu. c. 11, § 5, c1. 3, exempting the property of mch institutions
from taxation.

 




 




HAY, 1886.

fliivnley v. Bed-well, 6 Vex. 194. Favors/mm v. Ryder, 5 De G»,
M. & Gr. 350.

In the ease of University of London v. Yarrow, 28 Beam 159,
it was held that a bequest for founding and upholding an
institution for investigating. studying, and curing maladies of
quadrnpeds or birds useful to men, and for providing a super—
intendent or professor to give free lectures to the public, was
good as a. charitable legacy; and that the feet that the testator
showed some interest in the animals themselves and their hu~
mane treatment in no way invalidated the gift.

The argument for the defendant is, that the passage of the
general provision of the Rev. Ste. c. 7', § 5, cl. 2, reiinacted in
the Pub. Ste. (7. ll, § 5, was intended to extend the exemptiim
to the whole of the same class of institutions of which a pow
tion was then exempted, and no further; and that the words
“benevolent” and “charitable” must he construed as; meaning
beneir'olont and charitable in respect to human beings, such
being the only kind incorporated in this Commonwoalth before
the Revised Statutes." But the intention of the statute woe-to
extend the exemptions which then existed to all societies which
are proifierly described by the words used, and an institution
must he deemed both benevolent and charitable which educates
men in the, diseaeee of the domestic animals, and the proper
mode of dealing with them, even if it also inoulontee the duty
of kindness and humanity to them, and provides appropriate
means of discharging it. Judgment aﬁirmed.

 

 

 

 

__ . . n“... —~~-- .‘

4* The commissionere on the revision of 1836 proposed to exempt the
property of the Massecl‘iusetts General Hospital, the Boston Athenaeum,
the Berkshire Medical Inetitntion, Harvard College, Phillips Academy
in Arnloveri and every academy incorporated under the authority of this
Commonwealth.

 




April 11, 1958

TO: Mr. William Rockefeller

r1

rrom: Louis Reynal

subject: Veterinary Medical Association of New York City, Inc.

After having read and studied the Nevember 7 letter addressed to
Howard Nichols by the legal representatives of the Veterinary Medical
Association of New York City, it is the considered opinion.of Mrs. Eliot
and myself that no compromises should be offered to the veterinarians by the
ASPCA now. we should have the "complete statement of the objections of the
veterinarians" referred to in the next to the last paragraph on.page 2 of
said letter.

Net until we know a, b, c, what all the charges and demands are
can we be in an intelligent position to weigh the merits of compromise in
any one area against the charges as a whole.

{AA
; M JCa/ NL—

Mr. Howard Nichols
Mr.‘Warren.W; McSpadden

 




. X
\
Founded and Inco’r‘rporated 1866

Ofﬁcers (5' M anagers

WILLIAM ROCKEFELLER
PRESIDENT

WILLIAM F. MORGAN, JR.
VICE-PRESIDENT

JAMES H. RIPLEY
VICE-PRESIDENT

THOMAS D. HUGHES
VICE-PRESIDENT

WILLIAM A. MEYERHOFF
TREASURER

WILLIAM L. BURTON
SECRETARY

LOUIS REYNAL
ASSISTANT SECRETARY

WARREN W. MCSPADDEN
GENERAL MANAGER

JOHN D. BEALS, JR.
WILLIAM E. BUCKLEY
JOHN w. CROSS, JR.
JAMES H. JENKINS
ROBERT L. JONES
RICHARD c. KETTLES. JR.
JOSE A. MACHAOO, JR.
ALASTAIR B. MARTIN
JOSEPH B. MURRAY
HUGH E. PAINE

w. ROSS PROCTOR
WILLIAM A. ROCKEFELLER
GEORGE E. WAGSTAFF

Managers Emeritus

F. AMBROSE CLARK
HENRY J. FISHER

SAMUEL R. MILBANK

Telephone TRafalgar 6.7 700

Wm, ”If/M MW. 9/ (534/ 9.9M .%
M @0494 2.9, ./1./ JJ/

April 28, 1958

Mr. William Rockefeller
Shearman & Sterling 8: Wright
20 Exchange Place

New York 5, New York

Dear Mr . Rockefeller:

Attached is a resume of our meeting with the veterinarians
on April 15.

It was evident from the conference that we face two possible
alternatives: Abolish the Bronx Clinic or face a court fight. There
isn't much doubt in my mind that they will pursue legal action un—
less we make a positive effort to resolve the conflict.

It is, therefore, my considered recommendation that we
abolish the Bronx Clinic if we could (I) receive assurance that we
could follow our course of action in our main HOSpital and Clinic
without further interference and (2.) attend to the health needs of
adOpted pets as we see fit.

It is with great reluctance that I make this recommendation
which I assure you is made as a last resort. My reasons are several,

as follows:

1. Our charter does not provide Specifically for
veterinary facilities.

2.. Expense of a court fight and the general attendant
disagreeability of such action.

Address all correspondence to The A. S. P. C. A.

 




Mr. Greenawalt envisions the ASPCA and all other humane society
Operated veterinary establishments in the State as limiting their activities to
the care of their own animals. It is doubtful that he would even concede chari—
table practice because he mentioned that private veterinarians were “able and
willing to provide all charitable needs. “ In his view it is illegal for humane
societies to practice veterinary medicine on any scale whatever that could be
considered in competition with private veterinarians. He looked straight at
Mr. McSpadden, stating that ”If the ASPCA persists in this, we are warning
you now that it is going to be very hard on animals and your organization. ”

Other items came up such as spaying, castrations, charges, chari—
table work, vaccinations, etc. , but no conclusions were reached. It was evident
that Mr. Greenawalt considered all discussion of such matters of minor signifi-

cance in the light of the basic issue that the ASPCA should not be in veterinary
7 medicine at all.

Although we assured the veterinarians that we had no further plans
for expansion of our veterinary facilities, they nevertheless expressed fear
and apprehension that we would expand. They considered the bill to amend our
charter in the Legislature as proof they were right in their assumption. It was
difficult to ascertain whether they accepted Mr. Nichols' explanation of why the
bill was put in and the subsequent amendment of it.

Mr. Greenawalt stated on two or three occasions in the conference
that he and the veterinarians were expecting the ASPCA to come up with some-
thing in the nature of a compromise or plan that would resolve the differences

and that they understood Messrs. Rockefeller and Nichols were going to try to
do this.

. L I. I".
. :I ’ \

' \
WARREN W . M

 




Founded and Incorporated 1866

A'Tw:\\\\.
a} ’1’ ~‘\\

”I

ﬁcfﬁé
/ "I 1

, . .3

/2;

Oﬁicers <9” Managers

WILLIAM ROCKEFELLER
PRESIDENT

WILLIAM F. MORGAN. JR.
VICE-PRESIDENT

JAMES H. RIPLEY
VICE-PRESIDENT

THOMAS D. HUGHES
VICE-PRESIDENT

WILLIAM A. MEYERHOFF
TREASURER

WILLIAM L. BURTON
SECRETARY

LOUIS REYNAL
ASSISTANT SECRETARY

WARREN W. MCSPADDEN
GENERAL MANAGER

JOHN D. BEALS, JR.
WILLIAM E. BUCKLEY
JOHN W. CROSS, JR.
JAMES H. JENKINS
ROBERT L. JONES
RICHARD C. KETTLES. JR.
JOSE A. MACHADO. JR.
ALASTAIR B. MARTIN
JOSEPH B. MURRAY
HUGH E. PAINE

W. ROSS PROCTOR
WILLIAM A. ROCKEFELLER

GEORGE B. WAGSTAFF'

Managers Emeritus

F'. AMBROSE CLARK
HENRY J. FISHER
SAMUEL R. MILBANK

FORM 40M

Telephone ‘TRafalgar 6-7700

ﬁnd/gumcleﬂt @M My... 2; 6‘24; 93...! .9?
ﬂ... ”JAM 28, AM}?

May 2, 1958

Mr. William Rockefeller
Shearman 8: Sterling 8: Wright
20 Exchange Place

New York 5, New York

Dear Mr . Rockefeller:

Following are four items that the Board should know
about in considering the veterinary situation at the May meeting:

1. Attached is a Verifaxed page from the New
York City Veterinarian in which Dr. Zi-Fn—fnerman,
President of the New York City Veterinary
Society, comments on our bill. His language
indicates the type of profession with which we are
dealing. I will have the original at the meeting.

 

Seaboard 8: Western Airlines are by far our

best customer at the Animalport, turning over
every animal to us upon arrival. On April 29,
Seaboard called to say that because their animals
are no longer being boarded with the veterinarians,
the veterinarians are discriminating against
Seaboard by directing animal shipments to KLM
and Lufthansa, which give us only a token of their
business. Seaboard is losing $1, 000 — $1, 500 a
week in business, it was reported, as a result-of
this discrimination and they are seriously concern-
ed. We are trying to get KLM's and Lufthansa‘s
business but have not succeeded thus far. This
boycott of our customers by the veterinarians can
hurt us at the Animalport.

Address all correspondence to The A. S. P. C. A.

 




ungsmrucsnm‘s country .5 ; RU‘STUE. 25

( 'i‘NTiiACT to recover the amouui of a tax assessed upon real
«Maw of the pluintiﬁ for the year lgdél, and paid under protest,
l'lw case was submitted to the Suitacrior Court, and. alter judg-
nmnt. for the plaintiff, to this court, on appeal, upon agreed
facts, in substance as follows;

On May 1, 1884, the plaintiﬁ corporation owned about. an
acre of land situated in Boston, which was acquired, by it on
May ‘29.. 1883, for the purpose of erecting and maintaining a.
free hospital or sheltering home for liomclcss, neglectez'l, dis—
(tasml. or abused animal‘s, where they might. be kindly cared for
or lumiuiwly disposwl of. lsl-ll»"ii:.-li money given it for the same
purpose. i! mmimenccd later on in the same year, as soon as the

lww‘ssar'} plans and arrai’igcmcnts could he made, the erection of
the buildings aforesaid. On May 3, 1884, ﬁlm work of erecting
those ljiuililings had been" and was h‘cii’ig diligently prosecuted

by the corwrntion. The real cat-um was worth about $l0,’00{3,
and on May 1, 19.84, was all the real estate owned by the cor-
)x‘iratiun. and was all for the. use of the hospital, and necessary
Llwrvlui. utui intended for no other purpose.

Hn May 1, 1884. the defendant city assessed to the plaintiff
upon said real estate ii tax for the year 1884 of $193.80, which,
with the interest and costs, amounting to $3.48, the plaintiﬁ
paid to mid defendant, after summons, upon written protest,
and was the whole tax assess-ed to the corporation by the de-
fendant {or that your.

The. plaintiff was incorporated by the St. of 1868, c. 8]. Its
pUl‘IH'kat‘. m. mt forth in its constitution, is “to provide effective
means. for ihc prevention of cruelty to animals, throughout the
Commonwealth and elsewhere.” The members of the society
do not. derive any pecuniary beneﬁt from their membership,
but all the means of said society are expended in furthering
the purpose aforesaid. i

The plainiiﬁ' employs agents who devote their time and atten-
tion to tlw prosecution of persons found treating animals con-
trary to the laws of the Commonwealth.

The plaintiff prints and circulates gratuitously about one
hundred thousand copies annually of a paper entitled “Our
Dumb Animals,” devoted to setting forth proper treatment of
animals, and inciting its readers, by illustration and argument,

 




 

W a. OCHNM V.M.D.
emu or am

0. L- .LAKELY. V.M.D.
DIRECTOR or SURGERY

T. 0. "UNION. V. M. D.

I. H. SCI-ONE IDER, V, H. D.

ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL HOSPITAL 1:30:35:

J. HOLZWDETH. D.V.M.

 

E No L. PETMK. V. M.D.
180 LONGWOOD AVENUE ' BOSTON 15. MASSACHUSETTS 3 II. c. GRIFFITHS. D.V.M.-
mcmoatoo 2 a, L, "Annmsrou
. 3 ornc: MANAGER
: w. M. YANARELLA
February 25, 1958 ; supcnwsan

.I/ (I)

W:

  

Mr. Howard B. Nichols n
Thacher, Proffitt, Prizer, Crawley & Wood
40 Wall Street

New York 5, New York

Dear Mr. Nichols:

-O

Doctor Hansen has passed your letter of February 18 to the
undersigned for a reply.

The question of corporations practicing veterinary medicine I
probably belongs in the same category as that of corporations
(hospitals or other) practicing human medicine. This question was
fought out in Iowa in 1956 (A.H.A. J. , December 1, 1956) and I be-
lieve ended in somewhat of a draw. I am informed that state laws
vary somewhat in this regard and, therefore, what is legal or il-
legal in Massachusetts might not necessarily be so in New York.

The persistent, malicious, and oft repeated statement that
the Angell Memorial Hospital has driven all veterinarians out of
Boston should be clarified. In 1926, Metropolitan Boston had four !
veterinary hospitals, and less than fifteen practitioners listed in '
the telephone directory. Two of these hospitals were devoted largely
to the horse, and at least three of the practitioners were horse men,
pure and simple. The Angell Memorial Hospital had been in exist-
ence eleven years at that time. The 1958 Boston telephone directory
which, of course, includes Metropolitan Boston, lists 64 veteri-
narians, by my count. That they are not in Boston proper is not in
any way due to the presence of the Angell Memorial Hospital, but
instead to the social, geographic and economic changes which affect
all big cities. They quite completely form a fringe around Boston,

and insofar as I can see - they all are successful - in an economic
sense at least.

 

This hospital has built up a very extensive referral practice

OPERATED BY THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

 




THACH ER, PROFFITT, PRIZER,CRAWLEY & WOOD
JOHN C. PRIZER
(BARRY, WAINWRIGHT, THACHER 8° SYMMERS) COUNSEL

TELEF’HONEi BOWLING GREEN 9-5lOO

HENRY W. PROFFITT CABLE ADDRESS“WALLACES NEW YORK”

JOHN C.CRAWLEY

PAUL L.CLUGSTON

J. FRANK WOOD

HOWARD B. NICHOLS 4O WALL STREET
JOHN w. WHEELER

GEORGE T. KEYES NEW YORK 5, N.Y.
EDWARD c. KALAIDJIAN

KURT w. LORE

February 27, l958

William Rockefeller, Esq.
20 Exchange Place
Deerer. Rockefeller:
The enclosed letters should be helpful in dealing with
the representatives of the New York Veterinary Medical Societies.
l have not had an Opportunity yet to examine the decisions referred

to by counsel for the Massachusetts Society.

Sincerely,

I

%

 




‘ 16 East Broad Stzoet
Haunt Vernon, New York
march 10, 1958

Er. Irving Zimmerman, President
Veterinary Medical Association of New York City, Inc.
9 West 75 Street

ﬂea: Dr. Zimmerman:

I sincerely request that this lotto: be read to all the veterinarians
at the next meeting cithot directly after the guest speaker has finished or
at the beginning of tho business meeting.

I have been a member of the Veterinary Medical Association of New York
City, Inc. for practically 25 years and I am unhappy to say that at the last
business meeting the general discussion relative to the A.S.P.C.A. was very
offensive and unfair.

It seems to me that the general discussion was how terrible tho A.S.P.C.A.
was, how they were going to deprive the average small animal practitioner of a

livelihood and how tho AIS.P.C.A. as a corporation was invading the veterinary
profession.

At this time, I would like to point out my observations. I beliovo the
A.3.P.C.A., Spoycr Hospital and the Bide-A&Wee Home all have a proper and
important place in the helpfulness of treating pots and maintaining good public
relations with pet owners, to wit: can you possibly imagine that in a largo
city such as New York when a dog or cat needs to be roscood, the Fire god
Police Departments will not perform this cervico but a trained group of mom
of the A.S.P.C.A. routinely, unsung, do excellent work. Could a private
practitioner be called upon, or his staff, to imitate their work? The ambula-
tory services of picking no animals with fits or sickly or aged animals axe
aloo routine services performed by that organization. ‘

Professional services are available around the clock, holioayo and
Sundays notwithstanding, at one central area to-scr e five borOugho. To me
this is excellent, unselfish coverage for hotter than any group of private,
licensed practitioners can hope to imitate.‘

I personally bclicvo the A. S. P. C.A. and its staff cac be the private
practitioner a friend if we let it but I can only state that my personal
rolotionship with the A S'P. C.A; hao boon.boyond rcproach-

Surely many of us have had difficult caoes in our practice calling for
special equipment, special skills that we individually would not possess. I
cannot recall a time when the A. S. P. C.A. or the staff at Spcyor Hospital were

not only cooperative but willing to share a problem with mo when I presented
such a case. I

 




7‘

TO: Mr. Rockefeller, President

April 28, 1958

FROM: Warren W. McSpadden, General Manager

SUBJECT: Report on conference with representatives of the New York City
Veterinary Medical Association

The meeting was held on Tuesday, April 15, in the library of
Davies, Hardy 8y: Schenck at 1 Wall Street, from 3 - 5:30 P.M. Representing
the Society were:

Howard B. Nichols, Counsel
Dr. John E. Whitehead
Warren W. McSpadden

The Veterinary Medical Association of New York City was
represented by:

Kenneth W. Greenawalt, Counsel

Dr. George Levy, 3578 Jerome Avenue, Bronx,
Co—Chairman, Committee to Investigate ASPCA

Dr. C. E. Fletcher, 322 West Z3lst Street, Bronx,
Co~Chairman, Committee to Investigate ASPCA

Dr. 'Louis A. Corwin, 136—21 Hillside Avenue, Jamaica

Dr. J. Stuart Crawford, 2135 Jericho Turnpike,
Garden City Park, L. I., N. Y.

Dr. Shefford S. Miller, 2061 Palmer Avenue,
Larchmont, New York

Dr. Irving Zimmerman, 96 West 75th Street, New York City

Three matters in particular were discussed: (1) Veterinary arrange—
ments at Animalport (2) Adoption Service Clinic (3) Bronx Clinic; and a number
of other pertaining matters in general.

(1) There were no points of disagreement about the veterinary
arrangements at the Animalport, though it was evident that the veterinarians

considered it a minor matter and of little or no consequence as a compromise
on our part.

(2) The Adoption Service Clinic was discussed at some length, as
was our adoption program. The veterinarians were informed that annually we
put 15 - 16 thousand dogs and cats (mostly dogs) into the channel of pet ownership

and that it was our great desire to give out healthy animals. One of the best
measures to assure this was our AdOption Service Clinic.

 




Page Two mg 1958

LET'S ENFORM THE “Wilt:

In the all important ﬁeld of using
publicity to establish good public rela-
tions, we are not yet meeting our full
responsibilities. Publicity, by deﬁnition,
is information designed to advance the
interests of a place, person, group, or
cause, usually appearing in print or in
other public media of communication; or
my matter which secures public atten»
tion.

By more clearly deﬁning and improw
ing our ethical codes and our other in—
terprofessional conduct, we are com
stantly striving to improve ourselves, to
relate better to each other and to estab~
lish better public relations. However, in
some respects our codes are tending to
withdraw us from public attention or
publicity.

In reference to this, at the annual
meeting in September, 1957, of the New
York State Veterinary Medical Society.
our empresident Robert B. McClelland
so ably stated, "Publicity is an impor-
tant facet in public relations. No one
doubts for a moment that the personal
bearing and the ethical services of the
individual veterinarian have top priori~
ty. However, public relations, through
publicity on the organizational level has
been neglected. Our committee has done
its task well, but it has had to operate
within a code inspired by short-sighted
jealousies . . . if we were to look upon
publicity as public education, perhaps it
would be more graciously accepted.
Surely the control of brucellosis, masti~
tis, leptospirosis, rabies, and distemper
would be enhanced by well organized
publicity. The general public is still not
aware of the veterinarian’s usefulness,
and the learned professions are woe~
fully uninformed."

From this it is evident to all of us
how important good publicity can be.
So let us all join together to work in
our local organization for excellent pub-
lic relations through publicity.

L. W.

VETERINARIAN

// FROM THE PRESlDENl“S bESK

We have reason to be proud of the
members of our city organization for a
most dramatic display of unity. Pride
also in men such as J.l,). Sweet, Bob
McClelland, R. Wiswall, J.C). Hoyle,
l... A. Wuori, (i‘. E. Fletcher, G. Levy
and Shetford Miller who largely con-
tributed of themselves and gave direc—
tion to will" concerted and successful
ﬁght against the bill which would have
authorized the A.S.l’.C.A. the right to
practice Veterinary Medicine as a cor-
poration. The insidious manner used by
the A.S.l-’.C.A., postponing conference
date after conference date here in New
York (.‘ity, while simultaneously busy in
Albany seeking to expand their charter
to include the practice of Veterinary
Medicine, has its analogue in history’s
Day of Infamy, Dec. 7, 1941. it was
only through the concerted effort of all
of us, via letter, telegram, phone and
personal interriew that the hand that
was really to strike was stayed. //

3 ii t

Alerted by Slieﬂ'ord Miller, your ad-
ministration olﬁcially opposed the Jury
Duty Bill on March 18, .1958. Also op-
posed was the Brydges or so called Feed
Store Bill. A statistics packed telegram
composed by the indispensable S. Miller
was addressed to Governor Harriman.

1! 3 $

Smooth organizational functioning is
directly dependent on committee reports.
Entering our fourth month ﬁnds a few
committees who have still to submit an
initial report. They shall remain name~

less here.
I: It 5:

A Speakers Bureau is already func-
tioning under the direction of H. Gold—
waseer. Good public relations within
the community is the goal and if inter-
ested, contact our Public Relations Chair-
man.

i. Zimmerman

 




Mr . Rockefeller

3. Within the next two or three years we shall undoubtedly
have to go to the Legislature for an increase in the dog
license fee if we are to retain the franchise. It would
be very much in our favor to have the veterinarians with

us, or at least silent, than to have their organized opposi-
tion.

The anti—vivisectionists and other Opponents of Metcalf-
Hatch would support the veterinarians in a court fight
and would confuse the basic issue.

. Dr. Whitehead believes the veterinarians will take action
against our veterinarians and will discourage other veteri-
narians from coming with us. There isn't much doubt but

what this is a weapon they have which could hurt us badly
if used.

. Dr. Whitehead is not sympathetic to our continuing the
Bronx Clinic which places the onus for it on management.

If Mr. Greenawalt's threats are to be taken seriously, abolishing

the Bronx Clinic will not resolve the issue, but in my opinion the veterinarians
will settle for that.

Sincerely,

[j b1 Kai/W

WARREN W. MCSEADDEN

General Manager g,
WWMcS /in

 




Mr . Rockefeller

3. On April 30, one of our customers, an animal
importer, called to say that the veterinarians
had asked him not to trade with the ASPCA. He
told them he would not change, that he thought
"the Animalport is wonderful and everyone ship-
ping animals should use it. "

. On April 22, Mrs. Haucke and I appeared before
the Board of Trustees of the Village of Dobbs
Ferry in connection with the renewal of our
contract to begin June 1. Among those appear-
ing against the ASPCA was Dr. Marion Leighton,

a veterinarian of Dobbs Ferry, and a member of
the Westchester County Veterinary Medical Society.

There isn't much question but what the private veterinarians
are actively trying to hurt us by these attacks.

Sincerely,

.1 '

>7
,.

i e. I,

». i U“

i " 5.3 } _ i n Vin—s"
3’ ‘WARRE W. MCSPADDEN
General Manager

.151
. 3-“

,"' .
‘ - . «: .-
6 a

WWMcS/in

 




 

    

       
 

26 mar, sass.

to such matment; and has printed and distributed gratuitously
shoes two hundred thousand copies of essays upon diﬁenent
subjects, treating of methods for the proper and humane treat-
ment of, animals under all conditions-

The plaintiff has, by its ofﬁcers and agents, deim-w-d many
free addresses, and given much personal advice on amigos 1... mn-
nected with the humane and proper treatment of swim...” md
has awarded prizes for inventions for the relief of animan was
suffering, and keeps specimens and models of such inseam-um on
exhibition, but does not deal in or sell any such artivia-s

The plaintiﬁ, at the centennial exhibition in Philadripiuu. an
1876, secured a space in said exhibition, and exhibited a given
number of models and specimens of the above inventions. and
has, by its oﬂicers, organized about ﬁve thousand assocnnmm.
which have about three hundred thousand members pinlgmi to
the prevention of cruelty to animals.

The plaintiff, on June ‘27, 188-1, duly filed with the ﬂaw-saute
of the defendant city, in full accordance with the requirmuents
of the St. of 1882, c. 217, a true list of all the real and personal
estate held by it on the ﬁrst day of May, 1884, for liierary,
benevolent, charitable, or scientific purposes, and also a true
statement of the amounts of all receipts and expendiimm m it
for said purposes during the year next preceding said that day
of May; said list and statement being in such detail M was
required by the tax cornn'iissioiier.

F. Brewster, for the plaintiff.

A. J. Bailey, for the defendant.

DEVENS, J. As the plaintiff paid the tax assessed ugmi: its
real estate under such circumstances that it is entitled t» «wwer
it back if wrongfully assessed, the only question is Mme.” the
plaintiff corporation is one of the institutions descrilmi m the
Pub. Ste. C. 11, §5, cl. 3, as “literary, benevolent. i'iINHLﬂ-
ble, and scientific institutions incorporated Within Hm Com-
monwealth.” The institution was incorporated by lh- ‘t. of
1868, c. 81, by the name of the Massachusetts Scum} hr the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. Its objects and mums
were not more specifically defined than by its title. nur was
any mode of accomplishing them pointed out. The mums
adopted, by the dissemination of papers and essays, it} im‘turw

 




To: Mr. H. B. Nichols , 2/25/58

and, in general, the most proficient and the most scientific of the
surrounding veterinarians send us the most patients. The veteri-
narian who is just a legalized quack certainly has something to
fear from a group of veterinarians who practice both scientific
and honest veterinary medicine.

The strictly legal aspect of the question certainly should
be discussed with someone else.

Sincerely yours,

”47/ /; W .2222;
GBS/t GERRY .SCHNELLE, V.M.D.
cc: Dr. Hansen

 




[/4

mos W w
0L0 COLONV must conPAm
INVESTMENT ADVISORYCOMMITTE!

LLOYD D. GRACE. Pun-out".
no" “A?!” m 0' W

WILLIAM H. 9077.“. JIL. 5.9000. v-cn-muuuv.
f”! W C”.

DR. ERIC H. HANSEN. Fauna-tn

WILLIAM A. SWALLOW. Sccncnunv AM:
on
WILLIAM H. POTTER. JR . Tum-urn.
EUNICE C. PICKET‘I'. Ass? TnEAsunuI
ALBERT A. POLLARD. Omxcvon o' EDUCA1I0~

OUR DUMB ANIMALS
OFFICIAL PUBLICAYION

alone: I. IINNITT. Inca-mason".
37.1. 37.3.7 Iuvcomtlﬂ’ Co...

Tn: Socmrv's R197 FAD" ro- Hon!!!
AND ANIMAL SHILTID

METHUCN.MA$S.

CouusuL

PIABOOY. BROWN. ROWLEY I. STOREY

 

THE MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTYTOANIMALS

THE ANGELL MEMORIAL ANIMAL HOSPITAL

I80 LONGWOOD AVENUE ° BOSTON l5. MASS.
TELEPHONE — LONGWOOD 6~6|OO

4*.

(1.93

February 20, 19589

Mr. Howard B. Nichols .. {a
Thacher, Proffitt, Prizer, Crawley 8: Wood 9'» ,2}
40 Wall Street ‘ wg’x‘o

i ,

New York 5, N. Y.

Dear Howard:

Thank you for your letter of February 18. I am very much inter-
ested in the situation that has developed between the Veterinary Medical
Societies of the New York metropolitan area and the American S.P. C. A. ,
especially as it pertains to the objection that your Society is practicing
veterinary medicine and that this allegedly can legally be done only by
individual veterinarians and not by a corporation.

You will recall, I am sure, meeting Mr. Edward G. Fischer of our
law firm of Peabody, Brown, Rowley and Storey, and inasmuch as we are
operating a veterinary hospital and clinics I have turned your letter over to
Mr. Fischer with the request that he look into the matter and render an
opinion as it pertains to our own Society, and I have also asked him to write
to you.

, I am also giving a copy of your letter to our Chief of Staff, Dr.
Gerry B. Schnelle, with the request that he write to you and try to correct
the impression created by New York veterinarians as it pertains to the op—
eration of the Angeli Memorial Hospital. I know he can give you some very
interesting points that veterinarians ought to think about.

Hoping you are well and with kindest personal regards,

 

Sinc r/ ly yours

EHHzMJK

_ ray-:9."

 




Dr . Zimmerman

It is very true that both these institutions have large sums of monies at
their command but I have always observed that they have used these monies wisely
to keep their house in order, get the best equipment obtainable regardless of
cost. get and maintain a staff of capable and outstanding men who run the organ-
ization professionally and who enunciate a policy and carry it out so as to interfere as
little as possible with the private practitioner.

I could spell out in great detail very many things but I feel at this time
that it is unnecessary to support my contention along these lines further.

Speyer Hospital with its good public relations, its carrying on the annual
display of purebred dogs at Rockefeller Plaza in September, stands out as a
valuable contribution of their efforts in regard to animals and the public.

Bide-Aimee with its pension plan for old dogs and its inexpensive burial
ground has cemented excellent relations between that organization and the pet
owning public.

There will always be segments of the public who cannot afford to pay the fees
of a private practitioner and there will always be a segment who would like to have
their animals treated at low clinic fee rates. or so~called low-clinic fee rates,
at an institution that has a great many more facilities then the private practitioner.
You or I will never change that group who think thusly.

If the private practitioner's own place is in order, if it is clean, if his
methods are up to date, if his equipment is modern, if his techniques are of the
present day knowledge, I cannot possibly believe that the unnecessary hysteria
should he raised about this practitioner being an able and welcome and important
part of veterinary medicine in his community.

i honestly believe that our public relationship program for the private
practitioner has been lame and sad because we have not in any measure matched the
public relations of the A.$.F.C.A., Speyer Hospital or BidesnuWee. Are they at
fault or are we? '

The Sonntitction and By Laws and Code of Ethics of the Veterinary Medical
nesocietion of ﬁew‘tork City is such that we are not at all aware of good relation-
ship with the public by means of radio, television and the press. These three
avenues of improved public relationship must be seriously studied without further
delay. ' ’ '

I am fully aware that Angeli MMnorial Hoopital in Boston serves the entire
city of Boston and that there are few, or no, private practitioners there. I am
also aware that in Philadelphia, there is the Veterinary College of the university
of Pennsylvania, a strong Pennsylvania S;P.C.A. in the city and.in addition, very
many successful private small animal practitioners. Thus, by looking left or right,
we can see Various pictures of veterinary problems or the lock of them according
to which direction we Wish to look.-‘ ‘ ‘

 




Dr. Whitehead reported that at a prior meeting with the Executive
Committee of the New York City Veterinary Medical Association and with the
Chairman of the Ethics Committee, it was concluded that the advertising of
more than one visit in the Society's printed leaflet constituted a "treatment
plan" which was contrary to the Veterinary Code of Ethics.

He also presented a plan previously discussed with management
which provided for one free visit comprising a veterinary examination and
consultation with the new pet owner plus a temporary immunization of the
animal at no cost to the owner.

Mr. McSpadden stated that he felt that most veterinarians could find
little or no disagreement with the Society's efforts to give out healthy pets and
that he was unable to see that our AdOption Service Clinic arrangements consti—
tuted a ”treatment plan” or was in violation of the ethical code. He further
explained that through the Clinic he felt the Society was helping to make pet owners
”veterinary conscious. " Mr. McSpadden explained the role of the women volun—
teers and that unless they could give publicity to the objective of their fund—raising

they had little to work on.

(3) In introducing the subject of the Bronx Clinic, Mr. Nichols
explained its purposes and that it was of assistance to the Society in meeting
charitable and AdOption Service Clinic needs. He also stated that perhaps there
was an area for compromise in having Bronx veterinarians staff it as we are

doing at the Animalport. This suggestion was turned down by the private veteri-
narians. -

Dr. Whitehead. then asked the veterinarians how they would react if
we abolished the Bronx Clinic altogether. This was met with spontaneous approval
by the private veterinarians. He then asked if we did that, would we be given
assurance that we could follow our own course in the Main HOSpital and Clinic
without interference by the veterinarians.

There seemed to be some approval of this, one of the veterinarians
remarking that there was ”little trouble with the ASPCA when it confined its
activities to its HOSpital. ” At this point, however, Mr. Greenawalt brought up
the basic contention of the veterinarians that the ASPCA was practicing veterinary
medicine illegally and that if this applied to the Bronx Clinic it also applied to the
HOSpital. He pursued this legal point at length but without assistance or ampli—
fication from the veterinarians. Mr. McSpadden had the feeling they would settle
for giving up the Bronx Clinic —- but not if Mr. Greenawalt is able to persuade
them otherwise.

 

 

 




April 28, 1958

TO: Mr. Rockefeller, President

FROM: Warren W. McSpadden, General Manager,

SUBJECT: Report on conference with representatives of the New York City
Veterinary Medical Association

The meeting was held on Tuesday, April 15, in the library of
Davies, Hardy & SChenck at 1 Wall Street, from 3 — 5:30 P.M. Representing
the Society were:

Howard B. Nichols, Counsel
Dr. John E. Whitehead
Warren W. McSpadden

The Veterinary Medical Association of New York City was
represented by:

Kenneth W. Greenawalt, Counsel

Dr. George Levy, 3578 Jerome Avenue, Bronx,
Co-Chairman, Committee to Investigate ASPCA

Dr. C. E. Fletcher, 322 West 2315!: Street, Bronx,
Co—Chairman, Committee to Investigate ASPCA

Dr. Louis A. Corwin, 136—21 Hillside Avenue, Jamaica

Dr. J. Stuart Crawford, 2135 Jericho Turnpike,
Garden City Park, L. 1., N. Y.

Dr. Shefford S. Miller 2061 Palmer Avenue,
Larchmont, New York

Dr. Irving Zimmerman, 96 West 75th Street, New York City

Three matters in particular were discussed: (1) Veterinary arrange-
ments at Animalport (2) Adoption Service Clinic (3) Bronx Clinic; and a number
of other. pertaining matters in general.

(1) There were no points of disagreement about the veterinary
arrangements at the Animalport, though it was evident that the veterinarians
considered it a minor matter and of little or no consequence as a compromise
on our part.

(2) The AdOption Service Clinic was discussed at some length, as
was our adOption program. The veterinarians were informed that annually we
put 15 — 16 thousand dogs and cats (mostly dogs) into the channel of pet ownership
and that it was our great desire to give out healthy animals. One of the best
measures to assure this was our AdOption Service Clinic.

 




LET'S INFORM THE PUBLIC

In the all important ﬁeld of using
publicity to establish good public rela~
tions, we are not yet meeting our full
responsibilities. Publicity, by deﬁnition,
is information designed to advance the
interests of a place, person, group, or

appearing in print or in

media of communication; or

any matter which secures public atten—
tion.

By more clearly deﬁning and improv-
ing our ethical codes and our other in-
terprofessional conduct, we are con-
stantly striving to improve ourselves, to
relate better to each other and to estab-
lish better public relations. However, in
home respects our codes are tending to

withdraw as from public attention or

publicity.

In reference to this, at the annual
meeting in September, 1967, of w New
York State Veterinary lodical Society,
our u-preaident Robert B. HcClelland
lo ably stated, “Publicity is an impor-
tant facet in public relations. No one
doubts for a moment that the personal

ring and the ethical services of the
individual veterinarian have top priori-
ty. However, public relations, through
publicity on the organizational level has
been neglected. Our committee has done
its task well, but it has had to operate
within a code inspired by short~sighted
jealousies . . . If we were to look upon
publicity as public education, perhaps it
would be more graciously accepted.
surely the control of brucellosis, masti-
tis, leptospirosis, rabies, and distemper
would be enhanced by well organized
publicity. The general public is still not
aware of the veterinarian’s usefulness,
and the learned professions are woe-
fully uninformed.”

From this it is evident to all of us
how important good publicity can be.
So let us all join together to work in
our local organization for excellent pub-
lic relations through publicity.

L. W.

N. Y. C.

VETERINARIAN

FROM THE PRESIDENT'S DISK

We have reason to be proud of the
members of our city organization for a
most dramatic display of unity. Pride
also in men such as J.D. Sweet, Bob
HcClelland, R. Wiswall, 1.0. Hoyle,
L. A. Wuori, C. E. Fletcher, G. Levy
and Sheﬂ’ord Miller who largely con-
tributed of themselves and gave direc~

ﬁght against the bill which would have
authorized the A.S.P.C.A. the right to
practice Veterinary Medicine as a cor-
poration. The insidious manner used by
the A.S.P.C.A., postponing conference
date after conference date here in New
York City, while simultaneously busy in
Albany seeking to expand their charter
to include the practice of Veterinary
Iedicine, has its analogue in history’s
Day of Infamy, Dec. 7, 1.“. It its
only through" the cassettesmw "all
of us, via letter, telegram, phone and

personal interview that the hand that
was ready to strike was stayed. a" '

t 3 O

Alerted by Sheﬂ’ord Miller, your ad-
ministration omcially opposed the Jury
Duty Bill on March 18, 1958. Also op—
posed was the Brydges or so called Feed
Store Bill. A statistics packed telegram
composed by the indispensable S. Miller
was addressed to Governor Harriman.

$ ‘ II

Smooth organizational functioning is
directly dependent on committee reports.
Entering our fourth month ﬁnds a few
committees who have still to submit an
initial report. They shall remain name-

less here.
* t t

A Speakers Bureau is already func-
tioning under the direction of H. Gold~
wasser. Good public relations within
the community is the goal and if inter-
ested, contact our Public Relations Chair—
man.

I. Zimmerman

 




May 2, 19%

Mr. Wiliiam RoakefeiMI‘
:Siwarmmn 8:: iﬁwriing £2; ’iiiright
2% Exchange: Place

Nam! Yﬁrk 5, New Yam:

i12-a&r Mr. Rockefaﬁﬁr:

Fall-awing are £93m itams that the Baard ahculd knew
abeaut m cammdering titer veterimary situaticn at the May meéting:

l. Attachad is: & Verifaxeeti page fram the New

:X’m'k City Veterimarian in which Br. EEEwrman,
President sf the NawWo‘rk any Veterinary
.Saciety', cammemtﬁ 02"; our bill. Hi3 language
indicaceaa the type caf prafession with which we are
dealing. I will have: the Grigimﬁ a: the meeting.

 

3eaboar€i 3a 'Wagterm Airlines ewes: by iar can}:

best; cuszer at time Animalpmrt, taming aver
every animai m as upon arrival. . On .gwril 2’19,
Seabéarﬁ canard to say that because‘their animals
are no hanger ﬁaing baarded with. the veterinarians,
the vmtelrinariazma are discriminating against
ﬁeaboard bytﬁrecting animal shipments to KLM
and Lufthansa, which give as only a token of their
bugixwm, Seabaard is lasing $1}, {30%} - $1. 530 a.
weekm bummmﬁ, it Was reported, as_ a resulth
mm discriminatian and they are seriously concern-
ed. We are trying t0 get KLM's and Lufthansa's
businesa but have not succeaded thus far. This
baycatt 0f mar cuawmew by the vetar‘inarians can
hurt as at the: fmimalpart.

 




