 

 

THE AMERICAN SOCIETY

FOR THE

PREVENTION OF CRIIELTY TOANIMALS

INCORPORATED BY THE STATE OF NEW YORK
APRIL Io, 1866.

 

THIRTY-NINTH ANNUAL REPORT

FOR THE YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31, 1904.

 

JOHN 1?. HAINES, President.

 

HEADQUARTERS OF THE SOCIETY'

MADISON AVENUE AND 26TH STREET

NEW YORK

1905

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

OFFICERS AND BOARD OF MANAGERS
OF

THE AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR THE
PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO
ANIMALS

1905

President.
JOHN P. HAINES.

Vice-Presidents.

BENJAMIN D. HICKS. JOSEPH H. CHOATE.

REV. MORGAN DIX, S.T.D. JAMES GRANT WILSON.
FREDERIC GALLATIN. WILLIAM FAHNESTOCK.
ALFRED WAGSTAFF. JOEL B. ERHARDT.

JOHN CLAFLIN. REV. PERCY STICKNEY GRANT.

Executive Committee.

BENJAMIN D. HICKS. REV. PERCY STICKNEY GRANT.
JOSEPH H. CHOATE. GORDON KNOX BELL.

JAMES GRANT WILSON. HORACE W. CARPENTIER.
WILLIAM FAHNESTOCK. WILLIAM H. BALDWIN, JR.
JOHN MASON KNOX. FREDERICK G. BOURNE.

REV. MORGAN DIX, S.T.D. FREDERIC R. COUDERT.
FREDERIC GALLATIN. WILLIAM M. K. OLCOTT.

GEORGE B. MCCLELLA N.

Secretary and Treasurer.
JOHN MASON KNOX.

 

Counsel. Attorneys.
STRONG & CADWALADER. J. MAYHEW WAINWRIGHT.
CROWLEY WENTWORTH.
Superintendent. Veterinary Surgeon.
CHARLES H. HANKINSON. SAMUEL K. JOHNSON.

BROOKLYN OFFICE:
I3 Willoughby Street.

Attorney.
GEORGE F. ELLIOTT.

 




 

 

ADDRESS OF THE PRESIDENT.

Ladies. and Gentlemen:

It is often said that nothing is so successful as success; but
even success is apt to be attended with undesirable con-
sequences. It is success, and not failure, that inspires envy
and the spirit of envious detraction. It is success, and not
failure, that arouses the jealousyof disappointed or ungratiﬁed,
but always selﬁsh, ambition, and. “jealousy is cruel as the
grave.”

For years past our Society has been made to feel the truth
of these observations, but never more keenly than during the
year which has just closed. It is a simple fact, easily to be
veriﬁed by any candid person who will take the trouble to in-
vestigate our operations, that the work of this Society, local
and general, is more varied in character, more complicated in
its details, and enormously greater in its aggregate than that
of any other similar society in the world. In saying so I
do not mean to disparage the only other society with
which our own Society can be justly compared. The
Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Ani—
mals in England excels us in the amount of its general work;
but it has no such local work as ours, and the local work
of this Society is enormously greater than that which is done
in connection with the Battersea Home for Lost Dogs in Lon—
don, though that excellent institution has the assistance of the
entire metropolitan police of London, while our own work is
done exclusively by our own employees. To put it brieﬂy, the
work of The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty

 




 

 

 

 

 

6

to Animals is in some respects greater than that of both of
those admirable institutions, while our general work, I trust,
may yet enter into a friendly rivalry with that of the Royal
Society.

Unfortunately these very facts have made enemies for us.
Persons who, in all their lives, have never been known to take
the slightest interest in the work of animal protection, are eager,
now that our cause has won the sympathy and touched the con—
science of the public, would fain become the champions of a
victorious cause, and ﬁnd an easy way to notoriety, if not to
fame, by proposing themselves as substitutes for the Society
which has fought the good ﬁght and worn the battle. When
these persons shall'have done something more than tell the
public of the great things they intend to do, it may be worth
while to answer their voluminous and vociferous assaults upon
a society which has been too intent upon its proper work to pay
much attention to its detractors. Until that time these apostles
of large promise but of no performance must be classed with
Mr. Snodgrass in the famous battle of Ipswich, when that gal-
lant gentleman threw off his coat and told the people to stand
back because he was just going to begin!

Some of these large newspaper promises have already had a.
fair trial followed by dismal failure, not always, by any means,
through ill-intent,, but simply because of inexperience and ill-
founded self—conﬁdence. Like everything else in modern so-
ciety, the work of animal protection, however simple it may
seem, is difﬁcult and compliCated. None of the many works of
humanity and charity which adorn the progress of the present
age requires more constant attention to details or a more sys-
tematic arrangement of its operations. The advantage of our
Society in the prosecution of its duties at the present time lies
very largely in the systematic methods which have grown up
year by year at the suggestion of a large and unique experience.
I think I might go so far as to say that those methods are not
only systematic but scientiﬁc ;‘and that is why the work seems
to outsiders to be so easy that any tyro might succeed in it.

 




 

7

One rather striking illustration of this error occurred not long
ago in the establishment of an institution with an attractive
name, which promised all sorts of great things, and succeeded
only in causing much additional suffering to a few hundreds
of wretched creatures which ought to have been mercifully
destroyed. It was almost a matter of course that this well-
meant but disastrous experiment was publicly announced to be
necessary because of glaring neglect on the part of our Society.

In another way success in such work as ours brings bitter
opposition. The ﬁnal expulsion of pigeon shooting from the
State of New York made for us hundreds of bitter enemies, not
so much among sportsmen as among craftsmen whose trade
was injured by the stoppage of that inhuman b-utchery. A
similar success in New Jersey made us many enemies in that
State; and the stoppage of the inhuman hunting of a poor fawn
by a pack of dogs, slight as that incident was in the operations
of a Society like ours, brought down upon us a relentless news-
paper persecution in which the columns of the press were plied
in the circulation of complaints and accusations for which there
were no foundations.

Meanwhile the Society has kept on its accustomed way, doing
its duty, and doing it, I think, successfully.

The Young Defenders’ League has grown steadily and far
more rapidly than could have been anticipated, the increase in
the City of New York alone during the past year being over
20,000. I do not, of course, imagine that every one of these
Young Defenders is either intelligent or active in the protection
of animals; but I do say as a matter of knowledge that the
thousands who have joined the Young Defenders’ League have
made, and are now making, a deep impression upon the chil-
dren of this great city in favor of justice and kindness to dumb
creatures.

Few things could more clearly or more painfully demonstrate
the success of the Society in its local work than the preposterous
demands which are made upon it. In the winter of I903-4,
when the extraordinary severity of the weather made the streets

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

8

of New York almost impassable for man or beast, there was
great suffering to horses ;and then, to read the complaints in
the newspapers, one would have thought that our Society was
to blame for the heaps of snow and ice which caused the
trouble; also that our Society was to blame because people
would not provide their horses with proper shoes as we had
over and over again urged them to do; and then it was seri-
ously contended that this Society ought to sand the slippery
streets of the city from end to end, and so prevent immenSe
suffering to animals. We did indeed provide bags of sand.
which were given gratuitously to all drivers who would take
them, and along with them printed instructions for its use.
But to sand the streets of New York! I wonder whether even
you, ladies and gentlemen, have any idea of the meaning of
that undertaking? In the ﬁrst place, we should not have‘been
allowed to do it; for the care of the streets belongs to the Com-
missioner of Highways and the Commissioner of Street Clean-
ing, and while our Society has the honor to be a servant of the
State within its own deﬁnitely restricted line of duty, it is not
permitted to supersede the authorities of State or City in their
several departments.

Suppose, however, that this sanding of the streets of the
City of New York had been within our province, how much
do you suppose it would have cost? In the Boroughs of Man—
hattan, Bronx and Brooklyn, not including the Boroughs of
Queens and Richmond, of Greater New York, there are 990
miles of paved streets, and it is estimated the sand and labor
alone would have cost $16 per mile each time that it was used
during the many weeks of that dreadful winter.

Another of our difﬁculties is the enormous number of frivo-
lous complaints that are sent day by day to the Society, often
through the post~ofﬁce, and still oftener by telephone. From
time to time a complaint appears in a newspaper that some one
has telephoned to the Society, and that his call has not been in-
stantly attended to. The complaint, of course, is sometimes
perfectly just; for our force of employees is limited, and the

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

IO

item which I have thought it proper to introduce is that of
“Horses Examined” in the streets to discover whether they are
suffering from concealed sores or any malady which would
justify their suspension from labor. The number of these ex-
aminations reported is 63,285; that is 1,217 per week, and an
average of 173 on every day of the year.

Another part of our work, the value of which cannot be esti—
mated in ﬁgures, nor perhaps in any other way, is the educa-
tional work of the Society, and especially the modest magazine
which appears under the title of OUR ANIMAL FRIENDS. Our
occasional leaﬂets have been found exceedingly useful; but our
magazine has been simply invaluable as the expounder of our
cause. Many a contribution has come to us through its inﬂu-
ence, and yet it hardly ever begs. It has won many a fair-
minded man to our side by its plain statements of fact, and its
plain exposition of the reasons of our course. Its unsparing
exposures of fraudulent self—seeking in attempted raids upon
the public treasury has defeated many a scheme in which animal
protection was the cloak of jobbery. Over and over again,
when some great battle for animal protection has been going
on, a free distribution of OUR ANIMAL FRIENDS among the
press of the country has enabled editors to judge for them-
selves of the merits of the matter in dispute, and has never
failed to win able advocates of our cause. Thus this small
magazine has really served as sword and shield in many a by-
gone contest; and it still remains as useful and as indispensable
as ever.

Ladies and gentlemen, I have only one more small matter to
mention to you: I mean the new button of our Society—a pin
for women, and for men a handsome button for the coat lapel.
I have found that many members of our Society desired a but-
ton of that kind, and I trust that in the years to come it may be
worn by many of you. It is not intended to be sold, nor even
to be given away. It is to remain the property of the Society,
and to be returned to the Society in case the wearer dies, or
resigns. This matter has been fully explained in OUR ANIMAL

 




 

II

FRIENDS and needs no further discussion. I trust, however,
that, ere long, thousands of our friends may proclaim their ap—
probation of our cause by wearing the emblem of our Society.
I wish you all a Happy New Year.

JOHN P. HAINES,
President.

December 31, 1904.

 




 

 

 

 

 

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

 

During the year 1904 the civilizing inﬂuence of the Society
was extended to many new ﬁelds by the appointment of addi-
tional Special Agents to enforce the humane laws and also by
the formation and incorporation of a number of kindred so-
cieties. ._
The Society continues to grow steadily in membership, and '
the support from other sources has also increased to a gratify-
ing extent.

A substantial evidence of the Society’s activity is the ma-
terial increase in the work accomplished during the past year
as shown in the comparative statistical table included in the
President’s address.

During the year the Society was called on to mourn the
death of twenty-one of its members, whose names are recorded
in the Obituary Record.

The Address of the President and the report of the Super-
intendent, printed elsewhere in this report, cover the operations
of the Society in detail.

JOHN MASON KNOX,
Secretary.

 

 




 

 

REPORT OF THE TREASURER.

 

NEW YORK, January I, 1905.

To The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals:

The Treasurer begs to submit the following report for the

year ending December 31, 1904, showing a Cash Balance on
hand of $11,068.55.

Respectfully,

JOHN MASON KNOX,
Treasurer.

 




 

 

 

 

14

JOHN MASON KNOX, Treasurer, in account with THE AMERICAN
CURRENT INCOME AND EXPENDITURES FOR

 

 

 

DR.

T0 Cash balance, Dec. 31, 1903 ............................. $2,404.40

“ Bequests, Chas. H. Meeker. .. .. ............... $519.8I

Frida Wolff ....................... 530.00

Lena Offenbach ................... 100.00

Ida Elkins ......................... 100.00

Maria A. Rickhow ................. 2,300.00

Hanrietta Jennings ................. 950.00

Amanda M. Coe .................... 3,764.72

Geo. Gardener Grennell ............. 18,885.30
27,149.83
“ Members’ Dues and General Donations ................ 13204.55
“ Fines ................................................. 8,575.95
“ Rentals, Dividends, Interest, Licenses, etc ............... 86,630.34
$37,965.07

 

 

We, the undersigned, have examined the foregoing accounts of the
Animals, and have veriﬁed the same by the Society’s books and vouchers.

 

 

 




 

 

 

15

SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
THE YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31, 1904.

 

 

CR.
By Disbursements from Jan. I, 1904, to date: General Main—
tenance, including Light, Fuel, Postage, Salaries, etc... $33,370.65

“ Equipment and Maintenance Of New York Shelter ...... 35,361.56
Brooklyn Shelter ....... 17,178.38
Richmond Shelter ...... 6,417.50
“ Brooklyn Ofﬁce: Maintenance ........................ 6,672.30

Ambulance House, New York: Maintenance, including
Feed, Food, and Medicine for Homeless and Aban- ,
doned Animals; debit balance ........................ 359.38
Ambulance House, Brooklyn: Maintenance, including
Feed, Food, and Medicine for Homeless and Aban—

“

doned Animals; debit balance ........................ 64.21

“ Repairs to Real Estate, Rent, Interest, Taxes, and In—
surance ............................................ 5,495.83
“ Legal Expenses ....................................... 3,644.92
“ Fountain Account .................................... 877.82
“ Humane Literature ................................... 9,478.61
“ Stationery, Printing, Annual Report, etc ............... 2,967.02
“ Ullmann Estate: Mrs. Thayer ........................ 700.00
“ Young Defenders’ League, debit balance ................ 232.22
“ Library. Account ..................................... 159.77
“ Lecture Fund ........................................ 989.48
“ Deposits on Badges ................................... 20.00
“ Horse Hat Account, debit balance ...................... 230.95
“ Furniture and Fixture Account ........................ 551.50
“ Sand Bag Account, debit balance ....................... 44.70
“ Uniform Account .................................... 46.92
“ Water Basins for Dogs and Cats Account, debit balance 330.25
“ Real Estate, Stapleton ................................. 1,702.55
“ Cash Balance, Dec. 31, 1904 ............................ 11.068.55
$137,965.07

 

 

Treasurer of The American Society for the Prevention Of Cruelty,t0

FREDERICK G. BOURNE,
WILLIAM FAHNESTOCK, Auditing Committee.
WILLIAM M. K. OLCOTT,

 




 

 

 

 

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT.

 

It is impossible in the limited space and time allotted to give
even a condensed report of the whole year’s work of the Soci-
ety. The statistical report is a strong proof of the Society’s ac-
tivity, but the amount of animal suffering that has been pre-
vented and alleviated cannot be estimated or realized except by
those who have taken an active part in the work and assisted
in its accomplishment.

Cruelty is not always caused through wantonness. Igno-
rance and carelessness are very often the causes which lead
to animal abuse; our asphalt paVed streets are responsible for
more than two—thirds of animal suffering.

Observe a horse after walking on stone pavement suddenly
step on asphalt, and you will notice a change in step and
movement of the body. The animal realizes it must be wary
and careful of its footsteps. It is a mistaken belief that sharp
caulks or the roughened iron shoe prevents falling. If a
horse is not provided with rubber pads, or the streets adequately
sprinkled with sand or ashes during the slippery weather, the
animal had better be kept in the stable, for there is no foothold
for feet shod only with iron. In my opinion, the best solution
of the subject is for some Department of the City Government
to thoroughly sand the asphalt pavements when the streets are
slippery and dangerous for horse travel.

UN REASON ABLE DEMANDS.

During the past year the Society has been held responsible
for many conditions of affairs over which it had no control.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

18

HORSE MARKET.

Since the passing away of the “Rocks,” known as the horse
market, the business of swapping, trading and selling horses
is now conducted in a more central part of the Borough of
Manhattan. To this place equines of every color and physical
ailment are brought twice a week. The young, old, lame,
wind—broken, spavined, sprung of limb, all have a price. Many
will not be permitted inside the market proper on account of
poor physical condition, so have to take the chance of being
disposed of on the outside.

Two Agents of the Society are assigned to attend each sale
day. Their presence means the ending of further physical
suffering for many an aged, worn—out horse, whose days of
usefulness are over. Only those familiar with the methods
employed by unscrupulous horse dealers can realize to what
extent they will go in order to impose a useless horse upon
an ignorant purchaser.

Our Agents are men of experience and when in their opinion
a horse is past further use the owner usually consents to have
the animal destroyed.

It is only a question of the very near future when the sale
of old worn-out horses will be a thing of the past, as is the
“Rocks,” which, for over half a century, was the rendezvous
for gypsies and horse traders.

POISONING ANIMALS.

A number of horses have been poisoned by malicious per—
sons, out of revenge or fancied injury done to them by rival
truckmen. It is impossible to get the necessary legal evidence
to convict the miscreant guilty of the cowardly crime.

In one case, ten horses belonging to one person were pois-
oned; ﬁve of them died, but the others were saved by a veteri—
nary surgeon. The person suspected, Israel Felman, was
placed on trial and many witnesses for the prosecution were

 

 




 

 

' ’a—~ A y A

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PART OF WORKING FORCE OF THE AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF
CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
PHOTOGRAPHED AT THE HEADQUARTERS OF THE SOCIETY, JANUARY 5, 1905.

 




 

'986‘93 'ON NOIJﬂDHSOHd (INV isamw

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

21

sworn, but none of them could testify of their own knowledge
that the act was committed by the defendant, and for lack of
evidence he was acquitted.

Several other similar cases were prosecuted by the Society
with the same result. Rewards have been offered for informa-
tion that would lead to the arrest and conviction of persons
exposing poisonous substance, “with the intent that it shall be
taken by an animal,” but while many applicants have claimed
the reward, all have failed to furnish evidence such as is re-
quired.

Many cases of dog and cat poisoning have also been investi-
gated. In this class of cases it is almost impossible to. ﬁnd
the perpetrator, as it is so easy for any one so inclined to scatter
poisoned food without fear of detection.

COCK AND DOG FIGHTS.

Thirty-three persons were arrested in a private stable located
on Union Street in the Borough of Brooklyn while engaged in
Witnessing a cock ﬁght. The pit and other paraphernalia, in-
cluding 25 live and 4 dead game cocks, were captured at the
time of the raid, and forfeited pursuant to the statute in such
cases made and provided. All of the defendants plead guilty
and were sentenced to pay a ﬁne of $10.00 each, with the ex-
ception of two, who were convicted as principals and sentenced
to pay a ﬁne of $100.00 each.

Deputy Sheriffs of Otsego County raided a road house situ-
ated on the outskirts of the town of Richﬁeld Springs, and
arrested eighteen spectators standing around the pit in which
two birds were ﬁghting. Eight game cocks, with the two
found in the pit, were captured and sent to headquarters. All
the prisoners plead guilty and were sentenced to pay a ﬁne
of $10.00 each, with the exception of one, who was ﬁned
$15.00, being a principal.

Through the vigilance of our Special Agents and Sheriffs of

 




 

 

 

 

 

22

other counties of the State, many cock and dog ﬁghts were
prevented.

In one instance ﬁghting cocks and a pit were found in a
room, with other evidence of a contemplated cock ﬁght, but
‘ the ofﬁcers found no persons in the room, although many were
gathered in the barroom and other parts of the building. After
taking possession of the seventeen birds and paraphernalia
about to be used for the violation of the law, the crowd was
dispersed and the proprietor of the hotel warned that he would
be prosecuted if he permitted his place to be used for the pur-
pose of violating the law.

An improvised dog ﬁght was gotten up in a rear basement
on Mulberry Street, this Borough, and our Agent arrested two
full—grown boys who were present, engaged in inciting the
dogs to ﬁght. There being no evidence of a premeditated dog
ﬁght, the defendants were discharged and the dogs forfeited
to the Society.

STOCK YARDS AND SLAUGHTER HOUSES.

Our Agents visit the livestock yards and slaughter houses
daily. The handling of large cattle is done in a careful man-
ner, with a view to preventing any injury or suffering to the
animals.

Calves, sheep, hogs and milch cows are unloaded from the
cars and put under cover, where they are fed and properly
cared for, pending removal to ﬁnal destination.

POULTRY.

Dealers in live poultry generally respect the laws pertain-
ing to the carrying of poultry in a humane manner, and pro-
vide crates of sufﬁcient size to carry the animals without dis-
comfort. Food and drink are also provided on arrival at the
market. y

The trafﬁc, however, requires constant vigilance on the part

 

 




 

 

23

of the Society, in order that truckmen engaged in conveying
animals from place to place do not handle them in a careless
or cruel manner.

STABLES.

That proper sanitary conditions are essential for the health
and comfort of horses cannot be doubted, yet horses have been
found in underground places, devoid of light and ventilation
and no adequate means of escape for the animals in case of ﬁre. ,

Several of these so-called stables have been condemned and
horses removed owing to the vigorous action taken by the
Society.

In other cases Horse owners have been appealed to and given
practical advice regarding the care of their animals, and the
necessity for comfortable, well—ventilated stables.

It is gratifying to report that our suggestions in many in—
stances have been acted upon with good results.

AMBULANCE AND DERRICK WORK.

The demands upon this department of our work have been
very great during the last year. Five horses and two steers
were rescued from drowning by the use of the life-saving ap-
paratus, and the ambulances for the transportation of sick and
injured large animals have been in service almost daily.

CANALS.

Our local Agents resident along the line of the canals of the
State have been active and vigilant. Their presence on the
tow-path from time to time, followed by the examination of
horses and mules hauling boats, serve as a warning to those
inclined to use lame and sore animals. A few teams were sus-
pended from labor owing to temporary disability.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

24
SUMMARY.

Excavations, markets, ferries, depots, hack stands, race-
tracks and places of amusement, where animals are employed
have been visited from time to time by our uniformed and plain
clothes Agents, and everything has been done to prevent the
abuse of animals and to enforce the laws of the State for their
protection. ’

In presenting this report the opportunity is afforded me to
acknowledge the many courtesies extended to the Society and
its Agents from time to time by every Department of the City
Government, and to express appreciation of the interest taken
in the Society’s work by City Magistrates as evinced by the
disposition of cases of cruelty to animals brought before them.

Likewise to the Justices of the Courts of Special Sessions
individually and collectively for their expressed sympathy
”With the Society and interest in the humane work in which it is
engaged, and for its dumb clients who appeal to the Court for
justice.

Also to the District Attorney and his able assistants for their
hearty cooperation with the Society in the prosecution of its
work.

It is my painful duty to report the death of two of the So—
ciety’s working force, namely, Inspector Frank 0. Clark and
Special Agent Alonzo S. Evans.

The former die-d May I 3th, 1904. He was appointed a
Special Agent October 3lst, 1874, by the late President Bergh,
and subsequently promoted by President Haines to be inspector,
and put in charge of the Brooklyn Department of the work,
where he continued in active service, attending to his duties
up to a few weeks before his death. He was zealous and faith-
ful in the discharge of the duties pertaining to his office.

Alonzo S. Evans, Special Agent N o. I, died December 3oth,
1904. On June 19th, 1871, he was appointed by the late Presi-
dent Bergh to be Special Agent, and from then until a short
time before his death daily reported for duty. He was iden-

u-w—w ,. .4. ._

 

 




 

 

e
b
wind
s
we
an
bd
S m,s
u
Tl RAW
A ek.
C
C mac.
.0
n e
a..m
Yt
aa
.md
om
Sh
.mo.
tm
Ya

 

ins have been located b

idly as funds for the purpose

 

WATER BASIN FOR DOGS AND

One hundred of these bas
d as rap

Increase

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

27

tiﬁed with many of the most important cases prosecuted by the
Society and was a faithful and reliable ofﬁcer.

In conclusion, I refer with pleasure to the efﬁciency of all
the Agents under my command. They are men of long ex-
perience, and have a thorough and practical knowledge of the
laws for the protection of animals and the mode of procedure
in case of arrest. They are competent to render ﬁrst aid to
an injured animal and to humanely end its suffering if the
occasion should require.

They are intelligent, painstaking, self-respected and devoted
to the Society’s interest and work.

Respectfully submitted,

CHARLES H. HANKINSON,
Sup em'ntendewt.

 




 

 

 

 

 

THE FOLLOWING ARE A FEW OF THE CASES
PROSECUT ED DURING THE YEAR 1904, SE-
LECTED WITH SOME VIEW TO SHOWING
THE DIFFERENT PHASES OF CRUELTY
WITH WHICH THE SOCIETY HAS TO CON-
TEND:

THE Society’s Special Agent at Cooperstown, N. Y., was called to
investigate a peculiarly sad case of cruelty to animals at Portlandville,
N. Y., on complaint of a resident of that village. Dr. Thomas J. Evans,
the offender, is an aged physician in practically destitute circumstances
and living in Portlandville in an old, heavily-mortgaged building, for-
merly used as a hotel. A son of Dr. Evans, who lives in the West, is
the owner of a farm of ninety acres one mile from Portlandville, and
’ on that farm several cows and a horse have been kept by old Evans
exposed to the intense cold of the past winter, and practically starving.
Some of the animals have died of starvation. The Society’s agent found
the miserable barn in which they were on the farm in a state of ﬁlth
impossible to describe, the place not having been cleaned since summer.
The cows were so tied that they were standing with their hind quarters
almost three feet higher than their fore quarters. The sliding doors of
the barn were only partly drawn together. They had not been closed
in years. At the time of investigation the temperature registered about
thirty degrees below zero. On questioning the people of the neighbor-
hood who were acquainted with Evans, our agent learned the reason of
the long-deferred complaint at last being made. It seems that on
several occasions Evans has been warned of his danger of arrest on the
charge of cruelty, and has brought the stock to the village and housed
it in a better barn near his home; but after a time he returned the
animals to the farm, where in the severest weather he did not go to
feed or to water them. Evans was arrested by a constable on a warrant
and was taken to Milford. Before the Justice’s Court, Evans pleaded
guilty, waiving the right to counsel. Taking into consideration the
destitute condition of the prisoner and the fact that at the end of six
months the mortgage on his home will be foreclosed and he will be
obliged to live with his son, the committing magistrate sentenced Evans

 




 

‘ 29

to six months’ imprisonment in the Albany Penitentiary, the sentence
to be suspended for good behavior. Evans was then severely repri-
manded by the Court and warned to care properly for the animals
during the time that they will be in his charge. On the ﬁrst word of
complaint he will have to suffer the penalty imposed by the Court.

M

A SPECIAL AGENT of the Society arrested Bernard Ford for driving
a very lame horse. Arraigned before Justices Keady, Fleming and
Fitzgerald, in the Second Division of the Special Sessions Court, Ford
said that the animal had been laid up for ﬁve months, and that he was
merely exercising him. The Court, however, found him guilty, and
imposed a ﬁne of $20, with twenty days in jail as an alternative.

FOR transporting living chickens, tied by their feet to the sides of a
wagon, with their heads hanging down outside, a Special Ofﬁcer of the
Society arrested Pasquale Emanuele. Emanuele was in prison for four
days before he could get bail. This fact was taken into consideration by
Justices Wyatt, McKean and Hinsdale, of the First Division of the
Court of Special Sessions, when the case came before them. They ﬁned
the prisoner only $10, with the alternative of ﬁve days’ imprisonment.

ON complaint of a Special Ofﬁcer of the Society, William Wood, of
King’s Corners, Yates County, was tried at Penn Yan, before Justice
of the Peace Joseph St. John, for cruelty to a horse. Wood was found
guilty and was ﬁned $10. He paid the ﬁne. The horse was in so
wretched a condition that it had to be humanely destroyed.

THE work of the special agents of this Society in the counties of the
State of New York deserves mention. So few persons have any idea
what these disinterested and generous-hearted men accomplish for the
“cause” that we feel the latest report of Agent Miron Fletcher in
Warren County will be of interest. Mr. Fletcher’s letter, from which
we quote, is dated March 3, 1904.

“According to your instructions sent me on January 26,” Mr. Fletcher
writes to President Haines, “I started as soon as the condition of the
roads would permit me to visit the lumber camps.” On February 19
Mr. Fletcher visited a camp, twenty miles from his home. There he
inspected the thirty horses in use for two camps, the next day, February
26, driving fourteen miles farther on his tour. The following day, he
drove twenty-one miles to camps at which he inspected thirty-one horses.
Then nineteen miles, to Newcomb, he traveled to examine forty horses,
going on to Blue Mountain Lake, a distance of twenty~seven miles,

 

 




 

 

 

 

30

where he examined sixteen horses, and next day returning home, he
made thirty miles. In all, the journey covered a distance of a hundred
and thirty-one miles, one hundred and seventeen‘horses being examined
in the camps, besides many horses which were met with along the road
carrying supplies for the camps. It is pleasant to note that Mr. Fletcher
found only a few actually disabled horses, of which none were in use.
The j obbers in the lumber district had ﬁnished their work and had “lain
off their cripples.” Some of the animals showed the effect of hard
usage merely in being thin. This past winter, as every one knows, was
unusually severe. The horses at work in the woods were exposed to
the continuous cold, without the relief of those thaws which pack the
snow, and with no break in their labors to allow them consecutive days
of rest. Mr. Fletcher thinks that great good will result from his trip,
as the hundreds of men in the camps represent many different locali-
ties. The men understand that the condition of their horses was
noticed, and that any cruelty would have been punished by law.

A SPECIAL ofﬁcer of th Society charged Gershom Gell, a Russian,
before Justices Holbrook, Olmstead and McKean, in the First Division
of the Court of Special Sessions, with working a horse that had a large
sore on its withers unprotected from the saddle. Gell pleaded guilty,
but declared that he was only the driver, and did not think he was to
blame. He was ﬁned $20, with the alternative of spending ten days in
the City Prison; and a warrant was issued for his employer for causing
the horse to be worked in its diseased condition.

A CITIZEN was the complainant against Philip Oertel, a waiter, whom
he charged with beating a dog with his ﬁst and with a knotted leather
strap. Police Ofﬁcer Thomas O’Grady, of the Twenty—ﬁrst Precinct,
arrested Oertel with some difﬁculty, the waiter resisting and assaulting
him. Oertel was held in $100 to answer, and by Justices Wyatt, Mayer
and Olmstead, in the Second Division of the Court Of Special Sessions,
was found guilty and was ﬁned $15. A further ﬁne of $25 was imposed
as punishment for the assault, the presiding justice warning Oertel that
if similar charges were made against him, he would be sent to jail
without the option of a ﬁne.

P. BECKER, a fruit dealer of Yonkers, N. Y., was arrested by a
Special Agent of the Society for causing and permitting George Single-
ton to drive a bay horse while the animal was suffering from a sore on
the back and from one on the off fore leg, unprotected from the harness.
Becker was found guilty and was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of $10, with

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ARREST AND PROSECUTION NO. 26,662.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ARREST AND PROSECUTION NO. 26,083.

 

 
 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

34

preter he was warned by the Court that another such act of cruelty
would be severely punished. Justices Wyatt, McKean and Deuel, of
the Court of Special Sessions, First Division, sentenced Hopfen to pay
a ﬁne of $15, with the alternative of ﬁve days in the City Prison. A
Special Agent of the Society appeared with Mr. Hottemeyer at the trial.

FOR driving a very lame horse to a heavily loaded truck, Edward
Stinacker, of Brooklyn, N. Y., was arrested by a Special Ofﬁcer of the
Society and taken to the First Police Precinct. Arraigned before City
Magistrate Charles A. F lammer, of the First District Court, Stinacker
was held in $100 bail for trial at Special Sessions. At the trial before
Justices Hinsdale, Olmstead and Holbrook the defendant testiﬁed that
he had been with his employer for but three days, and had driven the
horse but one day. At the time of his arrest—3.45 P.M.-—-he had a load
to deliver and one to pick up which, he said, would have compelled him
to work the horse until 9 RM. He admitted that the horse had been
under treatment by a veterinary surgeon, and that when itleft the stable
it was very lame. The Court sentenced him to pay a ﬁne of $15 or to
be imprisoned for three days.

BY a Special Agent of the Society, William Brazill, of Long Island
City, was arrested for driving a very lame horse. On examination, it
was found that the animal was suffering from a quittor in the nigh fore
foot, which was discharging blood and pus. The prisoner was arraigned
before City Magistrate Lorenz B. Zeller, of the Second District Court,
who held him in $500 bail for trial by Special Sessions. Brazill ad-
mitted that the horse had been laid up for more than a week, but stated
in his defence that he had been ordered by the owner to drive the
animal, which was not lame when it left the stable. At the trial, by
JustiCes Olmstead, McKean and Hinsdale, of the Court of Special
Sessions, First Division, the prisoner pleaded guilty and was ﬁned $25,
with the alternative of ﬁve days in the City Prison. He had been in
prison since his arrest.

IT frequently happens that agents of the Society risk life and limb
in their efforts to rescue animals from dangerous places. At about 9
o’clock P.M., a few days ago, a horse fell into an excavation at the
junction of Second Avenue, Houston and Christie streets. At the bot-
tom of a trench twenty feet deep a large number of electrical Wires
crossed one another in every direction. A crowd soon gathered and
every individual offered his advice as'to what should be done. In the
course of an hour it occurred to some one to telephone to the Society,

 

 

 




 

 

35

and at once an agent was sent to the place. Without hesitation he
entered the trench with the struggling horse, and for more than two
hours he worked alone, the live wires buzzing around him, until he
succeeded in putting a rope about the horse’s body. That, with a sling,
made it possible for the animal to be lifted by the Society’s derrick to
safety. Strange to say, the horse was without bodily injury, though
greatly exhausted. The Society’s agent was badly bruised.

FOR severely beating a horse over the head and body with the butt
end of a whip, Giovanni Villotti was arrested by a Special Agent of the
Society at Twenty—seventh Street and Madison Avenue, and was
arraigned before City Magistrate Barlow, of the Second District Court,
who held him in $200 bail to answer to Special Sessions. Before Jus—
tices Hinsdale, McKean and Wyatt, of the Court of Special Sessions,
First Division, the prisoner pleaded guilty, stating in his defence that
as he had been but three weeks in this country he did not know the laws.
Justice Hinsdale told him it was long enough to get acquainted, and
sentenced the man to pay a ﬁne of $25, or to be imprisoned for ten days.

FOR carrying seven live calves crowded into a wagon only eight feet
long by three wide, the calves piled one upon another, the Society’s
Special Agent at Highland, N. Y., arrested John McDine, a butcher, of
Poughkeepsie. McDine’s wagon could hold only four calves with any-
thing like comfort. To crowd in the seven animals he had tied each
one down by ropes and had bound their legs. When released they were
not able to stand. One was dying. The prisoner was tried by jury.
He was found guilty, and was sentenced by Justice Carpenter to pay a
ﬁne of $15 and costs. ~

THE Society’s Special Agent at Carthage, N. Y., investigated the
case of a number of neglected horses, cattle and sheep on a farm three
miles from the town. The animals were found starving. After sup-
plying them with food and water, the agent arrested Patrick Wrape, the
owner, who was arraigned before Justice P. W. Lyman. Wrape was
sentenced to pay the ﬁne of $10, or to be imprisoned for ten days.

WORD was received at the Sheriff’s Ofﬁce, Cooperstown, N. Y., that
a cock ﬁght had been arranged to take place at the Tunniecliff Inn,
Richﬁeld Springs. Deputy Sheriff Orlo J. Brown, with four of his men,
raided the Inn at 2.30 A.M., capturing eighteen men and eight ﬁghting
cocks. The prisoners all pleaded guilty before Justice of the Peace
James A. Storer. They were convicted of the offence of aiding and

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

36

abetting a cock ﬁght, and were sentenced to pay a ﬁne of $10 or to ten
days’ imprisonment in the county jail. The cocks were conﬁscated by
the Court to be turned over to the Society, at whose headquarters they
were humanely destroyed. '

THE Society’s Special Agent at New Rochelle, N. Y., arrested W. A.
Waite, an owner of moving vans. At the time of arrest, Waite was
driving a van to which a horse and a mule were attached, both animals
with sores measuring two by two inches under their collars. When
arraigned in the Police Court at New Rochelle, before Justice Edgar M.
Phelps, Waite pleaded guilty to the charge of cruelty, and paid a ﬁne
of $10 for his offence. ' '

A CASE of extreme cruelty occurred at Maspeth, L. I., on May 23.
Charles Liebermann was leading an old and wornout horse from
Brooklyn to Elmont, L. I., where he intended to take it to a skinner.
At Maspeth, the horse was unable to go any further. A police ofﬁcer,
noticing its condition, advised Liebermann to have the animal destroyed.
He refused to do so, but he abandoned the horse and did not return.
The Society’s Special Agent was notiﬁed of the case. He examined the
horse, which he found weak and emaciated. On removing a bag tied
around one of its feet he discovered that the hoof had fallen off. About
two hours later the agent succeeded in unearthing Liebermann, and
asked him what he meant to do with the horse. Liebermann replied
that he was not going to stay all night with it, and was indifferent as to
what became of the suffering animal. The Agent then placing him
under arrest for cruelty, destroyed the horse on an abandonment permit.
Liebermann was arraigned before Magistrate Luke I. Connorton, in the
Second District Court, and was held in $300 bail for the Court of Special
Sessions. He was tried before Magistrates Forbes, Fleming and Con-
olly, was found guilty, and was sentenced to ﬁfteen days’ imprisonment.
He was unable to pay the ﬁne of $20 imposed by the Court.

AT Twenty—third Street and Third Avenue, Police Ofﬁcer Louis
Berg, of the Eighteenth Precinct, arrested Albert Seebald, a driver of
an express wagon. One of the team of horses which Seebald was
driving fell. On examination the ofﬁcer found both horses in a very
weak condition, and one lame. They were absolutely unﬁt for the work
required of them. Seebald was taken to the Eighteenth Precinct Station
House and arraigned before Magistrate Leroy B. Crane, who held him
in $200 bail for the Court of Special Sessions, First Division. When
brought for trial before Justices Wyatt, Deuel and McKean, the de-

 

 




 

 

INTERIOR OF NEW YORK AMI-MILANCIC KENNEL ROOM, NEW YORK AMBULANCE
HOUSE. HOUSE.

 

 

 

 

AMBULANCE FOR TRANSPORTATION OF TRICYCLE CARRIER FOR USE IN EMERGENCY
SMALL ANIMALS. CASES

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

INTERIOR VIEWS, NE\V YORK SHELTER FOR ANIMALS

SHOWING MAIN CORRIDOR, HEATING AND COOKING APPARATUS, AND GAS TANK (OPEN ANI) CLOSED) FOR THE HUMANE
DESTRUC'I‘ION OF SMALL ANIMALS. (See page 163.)

 

 




 

39

fendant denied that the horses were in a weak condition or unﬁt for‘
work. He also declared that they were not lame when they left the
stable. From the evidence of a Special Agent of the Society and
Ofﬁcer Berg, Seebald was convicted. He was sentenced to pay a ﬁne
of $I5, or to three days’ imprisonment.

FOR furiously driving a horse through the streets, endangering human
life, as well as causing the animal a great deal of suffering, James Wall
was arrested by a Special Agent of the Society. On examination it
was found that the horse, besides being emaciated and utterly exhausted,
had a sore on its breast under the collar and other small sores on its
body chafed by the harness. When arraigned before Magistrate Breen,
of the First District Court, Wall pleaded not guilty and was held in
$100 bail for trial. Before Justices Zeller, Olmsted and Deuel, of the
Court of Special Sessions, First Division, the defendant withdrew his
plea of not guilty and pleaded guilty. The collar, on which were blood
marks where it had rested on the sore, was shown to the Court in
evidence, and the defendant was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of $10, or to
three days in the City Prison. '

AT Yonkers, N. Y., the Society’s Special Agent noticed a horse with
a rag under its saddle. The animal was attached to a delivery wagon
and had been left standing in front of a saloon. When the driver
appeared the agent asked him if his horse had a sore back. The man
said it had not, and turned sharply to drive away. At once the agent
placed him under arrest and made an examination of the horse. He
found a large sore under the saddle caused by the lack of a pad. When
brought before Hon. William C. Kellogg, of the City Court, the driver
said he was George Kannar. He claimed that he was not responsible
for the condition of the horse, as the stableman where he was employed
had known of the sore and had sent the horse out. The Court dis-
charged Kannar with a reprimand, and the agent arrested the stable-
man, James Barrett. On being brought before the Court, Barrett said
that when he had sent the horse out the animal had only a pimple on
its back. From the apearance of the' sore it was apparent that this
was untrue. Barrett was convicted of cruelty and was sentenced to
pay a ﬁne of $10, with the alternative of ten days’ imprisonment in the
County Jail.

FOR driving a lame horse attached to an express wagon, Frank
Anostero was arrested by a Special Agent of the Society. The defend-

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4o

ant stated that he had taken the horse to a blacksmith’s the day before,
and the latter had treated the animal for a corn and had said the horse
would not be lame. When Anostero brought the horse to New York,
Galtano Fusco, the owner, instructed the driver to do that day’s work,
and then to keep the horse in the stable until ﬁt for further duty. At the
trial before Justices Wyatt, Olmsted and Deuel in the Court of Special
Sessions, First Division, Anostero pleaded guilty. In his defence he
stated that the horse was not in the condition described by the com-
plainant, and was not lame when it left the stable. He was sentenced
to pay a ﬁne of $20, or be imprisoned for ﬁve days.

FROM headquarters a Special Agent of the Society was sent to assist
the Society’s local agent in preventing cruelty to animals at the Malone
(Franklin County) Fair, held on September 20, 21, 22 and 23. Several
days in advance of the fair a well-known citizen of Malone wrote to
President Haines to call attention to its being usually an occasion of
great cruelty to horses. Effectively to co—operate with the local agent
at Malone, the agent from headquarters also secured the co—operation
of the president of the village and of the sheriff. The entire police
force of twenty men were placed by the village president at the disposal
of the Society’s agent. A place called “Jockey Hill,” and sometimes
“Jockey Lane,” proved to be a rendezvous for Canadians and other
visitors during the fair week at Malone to trade in old, broken-down
horses. A particularly wretched and decrepit horse found there was
put to death humanely by the agent. On the fair grounds a large
number of horses were examined, but none seemed in bad condition.
The hack drivers along the highway were inclined to drive recklessly;
many had horses which the agent ordered back to the stable because
they were not ﬁt to work. On the second day of the fair, however, a
number of miserable horses brought to be sold were ordered home for
proper recuperation. One animal quite unﬁt for use was humanely
destroyed by consent of the owner. An unfortunate old horse was
found by the police abandoned about a mile from the fair grounds.
After sOme trouble the owner was unearthed and was immediately
arrested on the charge of abandoning a sick horse on the public high-
way. Still other cases of abandoned horses were looked into and the
owners arrested. Many warnings were given the hackmen, horse deal-
ers and jockeys. The Society’s agents were thanked by the law-abiding
citizens of Malone, who declared that never in the history of the
Annual Fair of the Franklin County Agricultural Society had there
been so little cruelty practised on the animals.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

42

After providing food and drink for the cattle, I arrested W—-——— and
arraigned him before the Justice of Peace, on the charge of cruelty to
animals.” Defendant plead guilty and was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of $10.

SPECIAL AGENT POTTER, of the Society, at Ellenville, was informed
that three cows and one colt could be found in an old, tumbled-down
barn, with little or no protection from the weather and nothing to eat.
Agent Potter found the conditions as described and after providing
proper food for the animals he arrested the owner, who was found
guilty and sentenced to Ulster County Jail for three months by Justice
of Peace Fitzgerald.

 

E— P , of Christian Hill, N. Y., was charged with neglecting
to provide proper shelter, food and drink for his horses and other live
stock. Our Special Agent reported that “the hay was uncut and the
live stock unfed with a view of saving expenses.” The agent had
advised and repeatedly warned the offender that he would be arrested
if a change for the better was not made, and the ’barn repaired in order
to keep the live stock from freezing during the cold weather. This
P—-—- neglected to do and was arrested, tried and convicted and sen-
tenced to pay a ﬁne of $25; also warned that a repetition of the offense
would bring about a much more severe punishment.

ONE of our agents was informed that J——-— B———— had rented a farm
to” be worked on shares. On the farm were 14 cows, 3 yearlings and
I pig, which were all 'in good condition at the time of taking posses-
sion, but when found by the agent they showed every evidence of neg—
lect. Nothing but frozen cornstalks and straw was found on the
premises, although there was plenty of feed in the barn, which J——
B—-—-— refused to give to the cattle, until all the frozen stalks and straw
had been consumed. One of the yearlings had died, one cow had ,to be
killed. The other animals had eaten off the limbs of trees and were
staggering, for the want of food, about the ﬁeld. J—-—- B——— was
arrested and charged with failing to provide proper and sufﬁcient sus-
tenance for the animals. The case was a clear one and the defendant
should have been severely punished, but a ﬁne of $15 was imposed.

 




 

OUR
ANIMAL FRIENDS

AN ILLUSTRATED MOA/THLY MAGAZINE

THE ORGAN OF

The American Society for the Prevention

 

of Cruelty to Animals

 

CONTAINING ORIGINAL AND INSTRUCTIVE ARTICLES OF INTEREST
TO ALL ANIMAL OWNERS

HEADQUARTERS NOTES COURT NOTES
THE LIBRARY THE VETERINARIAN
YOUNG PEOPLE’S MUSEUM, ETC.

Also Serial and Short Stories and Interesting Miscellany
by Well-Known Writers

SUBSCRIPTION, ONE DOLLAR PER YEAR

Published at the Headquarters of the Society, Madison Avenue and
Twenty-sixth Street, New York

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

MANUAL OF

KINDNESS TO ANIMALS

For use in Schools, Sunday-schools and
' Families.

 

“Is well calculated to engage the child’s attention, and teach
it to be humane to all living creatures.”——-Ne‘zo York Tribune.

“It aims to teach the utility of animals as an argument against
their torture, and the preface suggests that individuals are cruel
‘through want of thought, rather than want of heart.’ ”—New
York H erotl d.

“Admirably constructed to impress on the youthful mind kind
treatment to all the brute creation.”—.S‘pirit of the Times.

“Perusal of its pages warrants us in predicting for it a most
usefullcareer.”—The Rider and Driver.

“It is a useful and suggestive book for children, and it con-
tains some instruction which a large number of adults are much
in nee-d of.”——-—New York World.

“The little manual should ﬁnd lodging in the living-room of
all families Where there are young children, or Where horses,
cats, dogs, rabbits, birds, cows, poultry, gold—ﬁsh or other
animals are kept for use or amusement.”—Phﬂadelphz'a: Ledger.

 

Sample copies,'four cents each.

 

Published at Headquarters of the Society, Madison
Ave. and 26th St., New York

 

 




 

t0

'lar to
ing

lnCI'CElS'

late with

IS

accord

1n sim1

mg I)

3

A most appropri-
, by the erection
and bearing the

ls

lety,

s

tountains tor man

founta
lud

lon, me

11 allow

i

l drinking
ds of anima

f the Soc

1en
The cost of erecting a

lona
llustrat

i

funds w

5
Id be made by

fr
10m 0

Its

has already erected many and

iety
irect
in the above
is two to three hundred dollars

der the d

names of the donors.

7

The Soc

he number as fast a
1011 cou

IDS 11D

There is great need for add

D
N
A
N
A
M
R
O
F
S
m
A mu
T.
N
U
O
F
G
W
K
m
R
D

and beast.

mg t

ate donat

of founta

that represented
name of donor
location.

 

 




 

SOCIETIES OF NORTH AND SOUTH
AMERICA.

SOCIETIES IN NORTH AND SOUTH AMERICA ORGANIZED AND INCOR-
PORATED SINCE THE FORMATION OF THE AMERICAN SOCIETY
FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS—THE
PARENT SOCIETY—AND IN CORRESPONDENCE WITH IT.

NEW YORK.

THE AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF
CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.

Incorporated April 10, 1866.

HEADQ UARTERS:
Madison Ave. and 26th St., NEW YORK.
JOHN P. HAINES, President. JOHN MASON KNOX, Sec.

BROOKLYN OFFICE:
13 Willoughby Street.

 

ALABAMA.
Mobile Society for the Prevention of Cruelty’ to Animals.
I6 South Royal Street, M obz'le.
JOHN CRAFT, Pres. Major E. R. QUATTLEBAUM, Sec.
Birmingham Humane Society.
B mm ghazm.
GEO. M. CRUIKSHANK, President. L. A. BENNIE, Secretary.

 

ARIZONA.
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals of Tucson, Ariz.

Tucson.
WM. HERRING, President. ROCHESTER FORD, Secretary.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

43
ARKANSAS.

Arkansas Humane Society.
Little Rock.
H. L. REMMEL, President. R. W. PORTER, Secretary.

CALIFORNIA.

The San Francisco Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

403 Parrott Building, San Francisco.

JOHN PARTRIDGE, President. C. B. HOLBROOK, Secretary.
The Los Angeles Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Los Angeles.

Dr. W. A. LAMB, President. ELIZABETH MULLER, Secretary.

Santa Clara County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

200 West S anta C Zara} Street, San Jose.
F. R. SHAFTER, President. C. C. LELAND, Secretary.
San Diego Humane Society.
San Diego.
ERNEST RIAL, President. CHAS. W. OESTIN G, Secretary.
The Sacramento County Humane Society.
424 “K” Street, Sacramento.

R. C. IREVIN, President. I. SCHAD, Secretary.
The Oakland Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Oakland.

ERNEST E. BAKER, President. FRED JOHNS, Secretary.

Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals of San
Bernardino County, Cal.

Rediarids.
F. A. LEONARD, President. EDYTH A. ROMBERGER, Secretary.
Santa Barbara Humane Society.
1003 Stall Street, S cmta Barbara.
RONALD THOMAS, President. Dr. EDWARD T. BALCH, Sec.

 

 

 




 

49

Santa Cruz County Humane Society.

Santa Cruz.
H. D. BALDWIN, President. CHAS. A. REED, Secretary.

Fresno Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Fresno.
HORACE HAWES, President. WM. HARVEY, Secretary.

Marin County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Sansalito.
A. SYLVA, President. Dr. C. E. CASE, Secretary.

COLORADO.

Colorado Humane Society.
State House, Denver.
WALTER S. CHEESMAN, Pres. E. K. WHITEHEAD, Sec.

El Paso County Branch of the Colorado Humane Society.
Colorado Springs.
WM. F. SLOCUM, President. WM. F. RICHARDS, Secretary.

CONNECTICUT.

The Connecticut Humane Society.
Hartford.
Rev. WM. DE LOSS LOVE, Pres. CHANDLER E. MILLER, See.
The New Haven Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

New H aven.
Prof. WM. H. BREWER, Pres. EDWIN A. SMITH, Secretary.

Meriden Humane Society.

M eriden.
Mrs. MARY J. ROGERS, Mrs. FRANCES W. HAMMOND,
President. Secretary.
DELAWARE.

Delaware Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

' 606 Market Street, Wilmington.

Dr. EVAN G. SHORTLIDGE, WILLARD H. PORTER,
President. Secretary.

 

 

 




 

 

 

    

51

Winnebago County Branch of The Illinois Humane Society.
Rockford. '
WM. H. FITCH, M.D., President. Mrs. ROBERT REW, Secretary.

The Quincy Humane Society.

Quincy.
H. P. WALTON, President. LYMAN MCCARL, Secretary.

The Shelby County Branch of The Illinois Humane Society.
Shelby'v'llle.
Dr. T. L. CATHERWOOD, Pres. Mrs. H. J. HAMLIN, Sec.

Champaign Branch of The Illinois Humane Society.
C hump (Ll gm.
HENRY TREVETT, President. A. H. BRYAN, Secretary.

The Humane Society of Springﬁeld.
Springﬁeld.
Hon. R. L. MCGUIRE, Pres. Dr. J. C. HELPER, Sec.

The J erseyville Humane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals and Children.
I erseym'l l e.
Mrs. NELLIE PORTER, Pres. Dr. H. R. GLEDHILL, Sec.

Harvard Branch of The Illinois Humane Society.
Harvard.
W. C. WELLINGTON, Pres. Mrs. W. C. WELLINGTON, Sec.

United States Humane Society.
13 East M am Street, Damm'lle.
JOHN W. HALLS, Pres. BERTHA HALLS ROBSON, See.

The Whitehall Humane Society.

Whitehall.
FRANCIS FOWLER, President. H. O. TUNISON, Secretary.

Joliet Humane Society.

follet. .
, President. -———————~——————, Secretary.

   
 
 

 
  
   

 

 




  

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

.52

INDIANA.

The Indiana Humane Society.
42 Lombard Building, Indianapolis.
HORACE McKAY, President. A. C. ELSTER, Secretary.

The Evansﬁlle Humane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Women, Children, and Animals.

315 U pper F oarth Street, Evansville.
S. S. SCANTLIN, President. WILL WARREN, Secretary.

Fort Wayne Humane Society.
82 Clinton Street, Fort Wayne.

A. H. BITTINGER, President. C. E. ARCHER, Secretary.
The South Bend Humane Society.
S oath Bend.
Dr. W. F. MILLS, President. H. A. PERSHIN G, Secretary.

Terre Haute Humane Society.

Terre H ante.
Dr. E. E. GLOVER, Pres. Dr. E. B. McALLIST ER, Sec.

Muncie Humane Society.
M uncle.
Dr. T. J. BOWLES, President. W. R. MOORE, Secretary.

The Elkhart Humane Society.
206 M aln Street, Elkhart‘.
Mrs. FANNIE K. THOMPSON, Pres. LOUIS M. SIMPSON, Sec.

Wayne County Humane Society.
Richmond.
J. EDGAR ILIFF, Pres. Mrs. FRANK M. CLARK, Sec.

The Humane Society of Peru, Ind.

Peru.
JOHN L. MILLER, Pres. Mrs. M. PUTERBAUGH, Sec.

Floyd County Humane Society.
N ew Albany.
Dr. E. A. SEVRINGHAUS, Pres. Mrs. T. E. CRAWFORD, Sec.

 
 
   

 

 




 

 

 

    

S3

IOWA.

The Iowa Humane Society.
Des M oines.
JAMES CALLANAN, Pres. ELIZ. DICKSON JONES, Sec.

The Sioux City Humane Society.
S ioux City. ‘
Rev. J. O. D. POWERS, Pres. E. E. STEPHENSON, Sec.

KANSAS.

The Kansas Humane Society.
Wichita.
J. M. KNAPP, President. Mrs. E. G. ROBERTS, Secretary.

The Foster Humane Society.
Topeka.
Rev. ABRAM WYMAN, President. SAM RADGES, Secretary.

 

KENTUCKY.

Kentucky Humane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty.
Louisville.
JOHN H. LEATHERS, Pres. KATHARINE G. HEALY, Sec.

Franklin County Humane Society.
Frankfort.
LOUIS MANGAN, President. —-——-———-—-——-, Secretary.

The Kenton County Humane Society.
20 East Fifth Street, C ovington.
H. A. SCHROETTER, Pres. Mrs. FRANCES C. MANSER, Sec.

Lexington and Fayette County Humane Society.
Lexington.
Mrs. S. A. CHARLES, Pres. Miss JEANETTE E. CHARLES, Sec.

  
 
 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

54

LOUISIANA.

Louisiana State Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
606 C ommercz'at Place, New Orleans.

B. C. SHIELDS, Acting Pres. DOUGLAS FORSYTH, Sec.
MAINE.
Maine State Society for the Protection of Animals.
Portland. .
STANLEY T. PULE'N, Pres. H. C. VAUGHAN, Sec.
The Bangor Humane Society.
Bangor.

F. O. BEAL, Pres. ‘ Mrs. M. L. PATTEN, Sec.
Waterville Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
W aterw'lle.

H. L. EMERY, Pres. Dr. A. JOLY, Sec.
Androscoggin County Humane Society.

Auburn. '
Mrs. E. M. BLANCHARD, Pres. THOS. H. BURGIN, Sec.
MARYLAND.

The Maryland Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
6 I2 No. Calvert Street, Baltimore.
WM. WHITRIDGE, M.D., Pres. H. L. PHILLIPS, Sec.

MASSACHUSETTS.

The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

19 Milk Street, Boston.
GEO. T. ANGELL, Pres. JOSEPH L. STEVENS, Sec.

Taunton Humane Society.

I8 Clinton Street, Taunton.
, Pres. Mrs. THOS. J. TAYLOR, Sec.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

55

The Lowell Humane Society.
I7 Central Street, Lowell.
FRED’K P. MARBLE, Pres. Mrs. GEO. F. RICHARDSON, Sec.

The Brockton Humane Society.

Brockton.
L. E. CHAMBERLAIN, Pres. GEO. H. GOULD, Sec.
MICHIGAN.
Michigan Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Detroit.
T. W. PALMER, Pres. O. B. SCOTT, Sec.
Kent County Humane Society.
Grand Rapids.
Rev. J. HERRMAN RANDALL, CLAUDE HAMILTON,
President. Secretary.

Kalamazoo Humane Society.

Kalamazoo.
SAMUEL FOLZ, Pres. CARL G. FLIENSTUCK, Sec.
Goldwater Humane Society.
C oldwater.
C. G. LUCE, Pres. OTTO E. LUEDDERS, Sec.
Humane Society of the City of Adrian.
Adrian.
W. S. WESTERMAN, Pres. Mrs. O. KARNES, Sec.
MINNESOTA.

The Minnesota Society for the Prevention of Cruelty.
Relief Society Building, I4I East Ninth Street, St. Paul.
DANIEL R. N OYES, Pres. J. S. FUGATE, Sec.‘

Minneapolis Humane Society.
C ourt House, Minneapolis.
H. P. ROBERTS, Pres. VERA E. BEAN, Acting Sec.

 

 

 




   

 

 

 

 

 

 
  
    
   
  
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

56

Duluth Humane Society.
ZII Trust Building, Duluth.
Rev. A. W. RYAN, Pres. WALTER TURLE, Sec.

St. Paul Society for Prevention of Cruelty.
C number of Commerce Building, S t. Paul.

 

T. A. ABBOTT, Pres. Miss ALICE S. MILLARD, Sec.
Steele County Humane Society.
Owoito'nna. .
B. S. COOK, Pres. Dr. W. AMOS, See.
The Winona Humane Society.
W lnona.
H. L. BUCK, Pres. Mrs. E. W. WILLIAMS, Sec.
St. Cloud Humane Society.
5 t. Cloud.
FRANK J. BACH, Pres. J. I. DONOHUE, Sec.
The Red Wing Humane Society.
Red W lng.
, PI‘CS- ' Dr. F. W. DIMMITT, Sec.
Rochester Humane Society.
Rochester.
Rev. 0. W. TAYLOR, Pres. Miss ELLA DAVIS, Sec.
Stillwater Humane Society.
Stillwater.
G. E. CLARK, Pres. FRANK T. WILSON, Sec.
MISSISSIPPI.
The Mississippi Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Natchez.
WM. B. ABBOTT, Pres. ALEX. H. PEALE, Sec.
MISSOURI.

The Humane Society of Missouri.
511 Commercial Building, St. Louis.
HENRY WOOD, Pres. JOHN H. HOLMES, Sec.

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
   
  

  

 




 

57

 

The Woman’s Humane Society of Missouri.
3401 Washington Avenue, St. Louis.
Mrs. T. G. COMSTOCK, Pres. Miss AGNUS BRADY, Sec.

The Humane Society of Kansas City, Mo.
City Hall, Kansas City.
EDWIN R. WEEKS, Pres. F. M. FURGASON, Sec.

The Humane Society of St. Joseph, Mo.
Central Police Station, St. Joseph.
HUSTON WYETH, Pres. CLARENCE C. PIERCE, See.

The Humane Society of Sedalia, Mo.
Sedalia.
H. T. WILLIAMS, Pres. LEE MONTGOMERY, Sec.

MONTANA.

Montana State Humane Society.
Butte.

NEBRASKA.
The Nebraska Humane Society.
I 5 Commercial N astional Bank Building, Omaha-t
Dr. GEO. L. MILLER, Pres. H. S. MANN, Sec.
The South Omaha Humane Society.

South Omaha.
JAY LAVERTY, Pres. Rev. JAMES WISE, Sec.

NEW HAMPSHIRE.

New Hampshire Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

I Market Street, Portsmouth.
JOHN J. PICKERING, Pres. Dr. JAMES R. MAY, Sec.

 

 




 

59

The Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals of Union
' County, N. J.

Elizabeth.
E. P. EDWARDS, Pres. J. C. COLE, Sec.

Perth Amboy Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Perth Amboy.
Miss LOUISE BENTON, Pres. Mrs. FLORENCE KITCHEL, Sec.

Cranford, Union County, Branch of The New Jersey Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Cranford.
GEO. A. MORRISON, Pres. ALFRED H. MILLER, Sec.

Passaic County District Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

106 Washington Street, Paterson. .
ARTHUR W. BISHOP, Pres. CHAS. H. PETRY, Sec.

Somerset County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
S omerm'lle.
JOSEPH FITZGA, Pres. JOHN VOORHEES, Sec.

Princeton Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Princeton.
GEO. McLEAN HARPER, Pres. Miss K. C. ROCKWOOD, Sec.

Ridgewood Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Ridgewood.
Mrs. C. C. HARRISON, Pres. Mrs. E. J. WALTON, Sec.
Humane Association of New Jersey.
Newark.

Mrs. H. N. SAYRE, Pres. Mrs. HENRY LOWE, Sec.
Ocean County District Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

Lakewood.

Mrs. JASPER LYNCH, Pres. Miss ANNIE B. MILEY, Sec.

Passaic City District Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

Passaic.
VIM. HENDRY, Pres. JOHN KENNELL, Jr., Sec.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

6o

 
   
   
  
     
    
  
 
    
  
 
     
 
  
    
  
  

Atlantic City Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Atlantic C ity. '
, Pres. PHILIP J. LEIGH, Sec.

Asbury Park Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Asbury Park.

DAVID HARVEY, Jr., Pres. EDWARD WYCKOF F, Sec.
The Gloucester County District Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals.

W oodb'ury.

Mrs. JEANIE B. ANDREWS, Pres. F. B. RUTHERFORD, Sec.

NEW YORK.
WESTCHESTER COUNTY.

The Ossining Branch of The American Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated March 12, 1883.
Ossinmg.
CLINTON S. ARNOLD, Pres. Mrs. CLINTON S. ARNOLD, Sec.

MONROE COUNTY.
The Humane Society of Rochester, N. Y., for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated August 9, I888.
723 Powers Block, Rochester.
J. B. Y. WARNER, Pres. Miss SARA HYATT, Sec.

ERIE COUNTY.

The Erie County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated September 21, 1888.
39 Erie Street, Buffalo.
DeWITT CLINTON, Pres. MARGARET F. ROCHESTER, Sec.

DUTCHESS COUNTY.
The Poughkeepsie Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.
Incorporated May 18, 1889.
45 Market Street, Pough-keepsie.
HENRY V. PELTON, Pres. CHARLES F. COSSUM, Sec.

  

 




  

 

  

61

ORANGE COUNTY.

l1"he Newburg Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated July 22, 1889.
N ewburg.
GEORGE W. PETERS, Pres. A. E. LAYMAN, Sec.

OSWEGO COUNTY.
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals of Oswego City,
N. Y.

Incorporated September 23, 1889.
Doolittle H ouse, Oswego.
KARL KELLOGG, Pres. Mrs. G. M. GARDENIER, Sec.

Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals of the Village of
Fulton, N. Y.

Incorporated November 17, 1891.
Fulton.
THOMAS HUNTER, Pres. Mrs. EDNA A. MOORE, Sec.

ONONDAGA COUNTY.

The Central New York Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

Incorporated January 16, 1891.
207 Granger Block, Syracuse.
WILBUR S. PECK, Pres. G. B. WARNER, Sec.

ROCKLAND COUNTY.
Rockland County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to

Animals.
Incorporated February 20, 1891.
N yack.
WILLIAM K. COLSEY, Pres. MICHAEL FURY, Sec.

CHEMUNG COUNTY.

The Elmira Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated February 21, I891.
Elmira.

CHAS. S. LATTIN, Pres. Dr. JESSIE L. HERRICK, Sec.

 

 
 
  
 
 
    
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
   

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

62

BROOME COUNTY.

Broome County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated March 23, I891.
Binghwmtom
Z. BENNETT PHELPS, Pres. GEO. F. BRIGGS, Sec.

ULSTER COUNTY.
The Ulster County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.
Incorporated July 25, 1891.
Kingston.
, Pres. -—-——-——-—, Sec.

JEFFERSON COUNTY.

Jefferson County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated December 5, 1891.
W atertozem.
JNO. C. KNOWLTON, Act. Pres. Mrs. GEO. H. BABCOCK, Sec.

ALBANY COUNTY.

The Mohawk and Hudson River Humane Society.
Incorporated March 8, 1892.
Eagle amd H award Streets, Albany.
Dr. WM. O. STILLMAN, Pres. NATHANIEL J. WALKER, Sec.

NIAGARA COUNTY.
The Niagara County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to

Animals.
Incorporated May 24, I895.
Lockport.
F. J. SAWYER, Pres. Miss ALICE E. CROCKER, Sec.

CORTLAND COUNTY.

The Cortland County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

Incorporated April I7, 1895.
Cortland.
C. P. WALRAD, Pres. ENOS E. MELLON, Sec.

 

 




 

 

m

ONEIDA COUNTY.

The Stevens Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals of
Rome, N. Y.
Incorporated March 31, 1896.
Rome.
Dr. C. OLIN ZIMMERMANN, Pres. -——————-—-, Sec.

CAYUGA COUNTY.
The Cayuga County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to

Animals.
Incorporated October 26, 1896.
Auburn.
THOS. J. BELL, Pres. Miss SUSAN HART, Sec.

TOMPKINS COUNTY.

The Tompkins County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

Incorporated March 18, 1892.
I thasca.
WM. HAZLITT SMITH,‘Pres. Miss ELIZABETH COLLINS, Sec.

ONTARIO COUNTY.

Ontario County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated April 16, 1903.
Geneva.
FREDERIC D. WHITWELL, Pres. Miss ELLA LANGDON, Sec.

SENECA COUNTY.

Seneca County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated May 29, 1903.
Seneca Falls.
PRYCE w. BAILEY, Pres. ' HARRY M. GLEN, Sec.

GENESEE COUNTY.

Genesee County Society forthe Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated January 7, 1904.
Batavio.
Mrs. L. L. TOZIER, Pres. Mrs. JENNI‘E COWDIN BAKER, Sec.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

64

COLUMBIA COUNTY.
The Columbia County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

Incorporated December 13, 1904.
" Chatham.

MONTGOMERY COUNTY.
The Montgomery County Branch of The American Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated December 23, 1904.
Amsterdam.

FULTON COUNTY.
The Fulton County Branch of The American Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated December 23, 1904.
Glovers'ville.

GREENE COUNTY.
The Greene County Branch of The American Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals.
Incorporated December 27, 1904.

C artskiii.

‘ NORTH CAROLINA.
The North Carolina Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.
I7 Paragon Building, Asher/ilk.

HANFORD N. LOCKWOOD, Pres. GEO. L. E'RDMAN, Sec.
North Carolina Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children
and Animals.

Wilmington.

ALEX. S. HEIDE, Pres. S. P. HEINSBERGER, Sec.

OHIO.

The Ohio Humane Society.
' 24 East Ninth Street, Cincinnati.
Mrs. MARY T. ARMOR, Pres. Miss CECILIA RITER, Sec.

 

 




 

55

Cleveland Humane Society.
Cleveland.
Gen. JAMES BARNETT, Pres. SAMUEL D. DODGE, See.

The Canton Humane Society.
Frazer Block, Canton.
W. W. CLARK, Pres. CHARLES R. FRAZER, Sec.

Humane Society of the City of Columbus, Ohio.

Columbus.
FRANK C. HUBBARD, Pres. F. R. HOOVER, Sec.

Toledo Humane Society.
603 North St. Clair Street, Toledo.

JAMES M. BROWN, Pres. W. W. H. SMITH, See.
The Trumbull County Humane Society.
Warren. -
W. B. KILPATRICK, Pres. MARY C. IDDINGS, Sec.

Montgomery County Humane Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Children and Animals.

Dayton.

C. L. HARDMAN, Pres. JULIUS V. JONES, Sec.
Athens Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Athens.

L. A. KOONS, Pres. Mrs. A. J. FRAME, See.

The Erie County Humane Society.

Sandmky.
JOHN C. ZOLLIN GER, Pres. Mrs. FANN Y F. EVERETT, Sec.

Scioto County Humane Society.
Portsmouth.

Ashtabula County Humane Society.
Ashtabnla.

HENRY H. HALL, Pres. ——-—-—----——-, See.
The Chagrin Falls Humane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Children and Animals.

Chagrin Falls.

A. H. WILLIAMS, Pres. C. E. RYDER, Sec.

 

 

 




 

 

 

   
   
  
 
 
 

67

PENNSYLVANIA.
The Pennsylvania Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.
1627 C hestnnt Street, Philadelphia.
Col. M. RICHARDS MUCKLE, Pres. M. V. B. DAVIS, See.

The Women’s Pennsylvania Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals.

1601 C hestnnt Street, Philadelphia.
Mrs. R. P. WHITE, Pres. Miss ELIZABETH SOMERS, Sec.

Lancaster County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to

Animals.
Lancaster.

D. S. BURSK, Pres. JOHN L. MARTIN, Sec.
The York County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

York.

CHAS. A. KLINEFELT'ER, Pres. H. W. McCALL, Sec.

Western Pennsylvania Humane Society.
440 S ixth Avenue, Pittsb-nrg.
JOSEPH G. WALTER, Pres. Miss FRANCES R. HENRY, See.

The Chester County Auxiliary of the Women’s Branch of The
Pennsylvania Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

West Chester.
Mrs. S. C. MASSEY, Pres. WILLIAM S. KIRK, Sec.

Berks County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
5 36 Penn Street, Reading.

JOHN D. MISHLER, Pres. ————-——————-———, Sec.
Lycoming County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

Williamsport.

Mrs. C. LA RUE MUNSON, Pres. Mrs. JAMES P. HERDIC, Sec.

Lackawanna Branch of The Pennsylvania Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals.

Scranton.
JOHN M. KEMMERER, Pres. C. S. SEAMANS, Sec.
Northwestern Pennsylvania Humane Society.
Erie.

F. F. ADAMS, Pres. A. M. HOWES, Sec.

 

 




 

 

  
    
   
 
      
    
  
  
    
  
  
 
     
  
  
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

68

Luzerne County Humane Association for the Prevention 0:
Cruelty to Children and Animals.

W ilkesbarre.
JOHN N. CONYNGHAM, Pres. HAROLD D. DEEMER, Sec.

The Central Pennsylvania Humane Society.
A lto'ona'.

Mrs. W. I. SHATTON, Pres. Mrs. W. T. KETTER, Sec.

RHODE ISLAND.

Rhode Island Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
. 29 Exchange Street, Providence.
S. S. DURFEE, Pres. JAMES N. SMITH, Sec.

SOUTH CAROLINA.

The South Carolina Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

Charleston.
J. ALWYN BALL, Pres. -————————-, Sec.

Richland County, South Carolina, Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals.

Columbia.

, President. D. R. FLENNIKEN, Sec.

The Greenville Branch of The South Carolina Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals.

Greenville.

Dr. H. M. PERRY, President. FRANK B. MCBEE, Sec.

The Spartanburg Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Spartanbnrg.

J. B. LEE, M.D., Pres. CHARLES H. HENRY, Sec.

TENNESSEE.
Tennessee Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals and
Children.
33 7 Mississippi Avenue, Memphis.
Gen. W. J. SMITH, Pres. M. L. MEACHAM, Acting Sec.

 
   
 

 

  

 




 

 

  

59

Chattanooga Humane Society.

Chattanooga.
W. B. STEPHENS, Pres. J. C. McGHEE, Sec.
Knox County Humane Society.
Knoxville.
W. L. TRENT, Pres. Rev. W. H. BATES, Sec.
Nashville Humane Society.
Nashville.
Rev. D. C. KELLEY, Pres. MAT HOKE, See.
The Madison County Humane Society.
Jackson.
C. W. WELCH, Pres. L. R. GRIFFIN, See.
The Texas Humane Society.
Waco.

ALFRED ABEEL, Pres. M. B. DAVIS, See.
The Austin Humane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

Austin.

Mrs. I» H. EVANS, Pres. J. E. OLDRIGHT, Sec.
El Paso Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
El Paso.

Dr. C. T. RACE, Pres. ALVIR B. MCKIR, Sec.
UTAH.

Utah Humane Society.
Salt Lake City.
Dr. T. B. BEATTY, Pres. ’ ———————-—, Sec.

~

VERMONT.

The Vermont Humane Society.
Springﬁeld.
JOHN A. SHELDON, Pres. Miss G. S. SMITH, Sec.

 

 
  
     
     
    
    
  
   
  
  
     
    
   
    
     

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

70

The Brattleborough Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals. ‘

Braittle'borongh.
CHAS. H. PRATE, Pres. EDMUND A. S. OSGOOD, Sec.

Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Rntland.

J. A. SHELDON, Pres. Miss G. S. SMITH, See.

The Burlington Humane Society.
Burlington.
Prof. J. E. GOODRICH, Pres. Miss M. L. BENEDICT, Sec.

Chester Humane Society.
Chester.

GEO. L. FLETCHER, Pres. Mrs. LOIS A. FLETCHER, Sec.

Manchester Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
M one/tester.

D. K. SIMONDS, Pres. Miss JESSIE O. HAWLEY, Sec.

St. Albans Humane Society.
5 t. Albans.
Rev. J. O. BENNETT, Pres. Miss BESSIE C. PERKINS, Sec.

VIRGINIA.

Richmond Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Richmond.

Dr. JUD B. WOOD, Pres. Mrs. S. N. ROBINS, Sec.

Norfolk Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
242 M can Street, Norfolk.
L. CLAY KILBY, Pres. W. B. BARTON, Sec.

Woman’s Humane Society of Virginia.
Portsmouth.

Mrs. A. Y. GRICE, Pres. Miss M. A. BINGLEY, Sec.

      
   
     
    
     
    
     
    
    
      
   

 

  

 




 

 

  

71

The Lynchburg Humane Society.

Lynchburg.

P. A. KRISE, Pres. ———-—-————-—-—-, Sec.
Roanoke Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Roanoke.

Dr. H. E. JONES, Pres. W. C. STEVENSON, Sec.
Marion Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
M arrion.

JAMES H. GILMORE, Pres. H. N. BELL, Sec.
WASHINGTON.

Tacoma Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Luzon Building, Tacoma.
C01. C. P. FERRY, Pres. HERBERT S. GRIGGS, Sec.

Seattle Humane Society.
Seattle.
MALCOLM C. NASON, Pres. JOHN L. GOW, Sec.

WEST VIRGINIA.

West Virginia Humane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Children and Animals.

Wheeling.
Mrs. G. R. C. ALLEN, Pres. R. H. BROWN, Sec.

WISCONSIN.

The Wisconsin Humane Society.

495 Milwaukee Street, Milwaukee.
CHAS. A. PRIDE, Pres. Miss AGNES M. FURLONG, Sec.

The State Society has Branches at the following places:
Oshkosh, Sheboygan, Port Washington, Tomah, Stoughton,
Hartland, Plymouth, Janesville, Beloit, Green Bay, Ashland,
Waukesha, Delavan, La Crosse, Sturgeon, West Superior, Monroe,
Fond du Lac, Manitowoc, Racine, Berlin, Wausau, Madison,
Tomahawk, Marinette, Antigo, Eau Claire, Hartford, and Columbus.

  
 
    
   
     
    
   
     
   
  
    
    
 
 
 
 
  
 
 

 

 

 

  

 




   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

.72

'BRITISH NORTH AMERICA.

The Nova Scotia Society for' the Prevention of Cruelty.
16 Herald Bldg, H alifax.
M. C. GRANT, Acting Pres. R. H. MURRAY, Sec

Hamilton Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
_ Hamilton.
Hon. ADAM BROWN, M.P., Pres.
Lieut.—Col. HENRY .McLAREN, Sec.

Kingston Humane Society.
Kingston.
G. J. B. PENSE, Pres. J. M. COTTLE, Sec.

The Canadian Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
I89 St. James Street, M ontreaul.
CHARLES ALEXANDER, Pres. GEORGE DURNFORD, Sec.

Ottawa Humane Society.
83 St. Peter Street, Ottawa.

Mrs. GWYNNE, Pres. Mrs. GEO. E. PERLEY,‘ sec.
Quebec Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Quebec.

JOHN T. ROSS, Pres. A. ROBERTSON, Sec.

New Brunswick Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Ferry Building, Water Street, St. John.
Hon. JOHN V. ELLIS, M.P., Pres. S. M. WETMORE, Sec.

Toronto Humane Society.
. 103 Bay Street, Toronto.
Rev. CANON SWEENY, D.D., Pres. Miss DORA SPEARS, Sec.

”Fredericton Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Fredericton.
Rev. F. PARTRIDGE, D.D., Pres. CHARLES A. SAMPSON, Sec.

 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   

 

 




     
  
 
   
   
  
   
  
 
 
   
  
  
   
  
  
    
   
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

74

Sociedad Protectora de los Animales en Venezuela.

Caracas, Venezuela.

Seﬁora ADELAIDE DE ALMEIDA E. VASCONCELLOS,
President and Secretary.

Sociedad Protectora de los Animales de Montevideo.
Montevideo, Uruguay.
JUSTUS CUBILO, Pres. LUIS ALBERTO HERRERA, Sec.

Sociedade Protectora dos Animales.
Rue do Bom Retiro, S. Paulo, Brazil.
Dr. J. SILVEIRA CINTRA, Pres.

 

u

WEST IN DIES.

Trinidad Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Port of Spain, Trinidad.
Sir HUBERT H. E. JEMINGHAM, Pres.
KATHARINE H. BOURNE, Sec.

BERMUDA.

Bermuda Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Bermuda.
Hon. T. N. DILL, Pres. CLAUDE W. McCALLAN, Sec.

PORTO RICO.
The Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals of the
District of Ponce.

Ponce
MANUEL V. DOMENECH, Pres. —————, Sec.

*

CUBA.

Sociedad Humanitaria Cubana.

H (wand

Dr. JUAN SANTOS FERNANDEZ, Pres.
R. J. CAY, Sec.

 




 

 

SOCIETIES OTHER THAN THOSE OF NORTH AND SOUTH AMERICA.

It will be gratifying to the friends of our cause to learn from the following list of kindred societies that the work
of animal protection has extended to almost every part Of the world. Many of these societies are powerful organ-
izations, whose merciful inﬂuences have been felt abroad as well as at home through the dissemination of humane
literature The Royal Society at London was the ﬁrst in the world. It was organized in 1824, and now has branches
in every considerable city of England.

 

LOCATION. NAME OF SOCIETY. PRESIDENT. SECRETARY.
ALGERIA.

Alg1ers ........... S. P. A. of the Dept. of Algiers” Dr. Collardot ............. ‘. . . . —.— Pinguad.

Bona ............. M1ss Faure.

Constantine ..... .. . . G. C. Zengrel .................
Oran .............

Philippeville ...... . . I. G. Riviére ........... . .....

AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide .......... . . A. Abrahams.

Brisbane .......... . Richard F. Woodcraft.
Melbourne ........ VictOrian S. Prot. A ............. Thomas Latham.

Sydney ........... Animal P. S. N. S. W ............ P. N. Trebeck ................ F. Montague Rothery.

AUSTRIA-HUNGARY.
Agram .......... . S. Prot. A. at Agram ............. 1051p Muzler ................. Josip Medved.
Budapest ......... S. P. C. A ................. . Isidor Maday de Moros ...... Prof. Chas. Monostori.
Carinthia ......... S. P. A. of Carinthia ............. Lorenz Washietl.
Czernowitz S. P. A ......................... L. L. Strzalkowski.
Graz ........... Styrian S. P. C. A ............... Baron von Mensshengen ...... Karl Berger.
Innsbruck ......... Tyrolian S. P. A ................ Albert Moné ................. Edmund Kustin.
Karlstadt ....... . Julia Ivancic ................. Josip Absatz.
Kaschau ........ .. Adalb Pater.
Klagenfurt .. S. P. A. for Karnten ........... Franz Jos. Oertl .............. Alfred Kohlert.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AUSTRIA-HUNGARY:—
Contmued.

Krakau
Leitmeritz
Lemberg
Linz . . . .

Mahr Ostrau. I. . . . .

Prague

Przemysl . .
Rzeszow . .
T emesvar .
Trieste . . .

Vienna

Zagreb . . . .
Zara . . .

BELGIUM.
Antwerp
Brussels
Ghent
Liege . ..
Louvain . . .
Malines
Namur
Verviers

DENMARK.
Copenhagen

EGYPT.
Alexandria
Cairo .....

0......

.00....

0....-

IOOOOOOCOOIOO
000.000...
0.0000.

tooooootl.
00.00000...

0......

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Bohmen
éo '
.A...
A

ienna

. £015 i1}

b

ranches

0.....I..

e

s. '13. 15: 142 £561 gag;

' kiagaaga‘

6?

0. O

}

ranch 'ééiiéiéﬁ'éfﬁcfAI

Dr. Joseph von Kopff. . .
F'éiiic's'dé 'PtavvicPtawick
Sylvester F elschimoosky .
Florian Gartner . . . . . . . . .
Mathias N ovotny . . . . . . .
Hubert von Freyberger

D. M. Parlagi Marton. . .
Dr. Vigini ......

i0...

.P.C.A ........................

Dalmatian S. P. A..

l

0......

Antwerp S. Prot. of A...

Royal S. Pro
S. P. A

I. . OIQOOOOOQQO

S
S
S
S
V

.D.......

erviers S.for Siippress’nof C.toA.

i Dr.

Prof. E. Kamenar. . . . . . .

G. Testa

Julien Koch

Griindenfels

00....

Alphonse Solvyns.

A'lﬁiiéia'sé'ohiiléér's' . . ..
Victor Hénot ..........

J. Mastboom.
Baron Fallon. .. . .
Jules Ruhl. . . . . ..

Arthur Holland .von i

COCO-O

0......OOCU

Denmark S. P. C. A. and six

F. Chr. Lembcke..............

l

branches . . .

}

 

 

Alexandria S. P. C. A.
Cairo S. P. C. A ......

C......O.I.

 

S. E. Ismail Pacha‘ Sabri

0....0

Mohammed Maher Pasha. . . . ..

 

 

 

 

 

Bronislaus Gustawicz.
Eduard Schmiedt.
Dr. Jozef Limbach.
Ottokar Beer.
Richard Hartmann.

Josef Hudl.

J oh. Haralewicz.
Graef Janos.

N. Salvari.

E. Alex. Sturm.

Drag. Leskovac.
Charles Inghini.

Adolphe van den Bosch.
Alban Roels.

H. Louveigne.

T. Beaufort.

-E. van den Eynde.

Leon Diercxnes.
Greuse.
A. Andrin.

P. J orgensen.

A. von Dumreicher.

T. B. Hohler.

 

 




 

 

 

ENGLAND.
London

FRANCE.
Biarritz ...........
Cannes . . . . . ..... .
Dunkirk ......... .
Havre ........ . . . .
Lyons ...... . .....
Marseilles ..... . . .
Mentone . .. ..
Monaco .......... .
Nice ............ ..
Paris
Pau ............. .
Rouen .......... . .

GERMANY.
Aachen
Altona ........... .
Aschaffenburg. . . . .
Augsburg .... . .. ..
Baden-Baden . . .
Bautzen .
Bayreuth ..........
Berlin ............
Bernstadt ...... . ..
Bonn
Bremen ...........
Breslau
Bromberg ...... . .
Brunswick ........
Cassel ............ .

 

Royal S.P.C.A. [and branches
throughout England] .......

i l

S.P.A ..............
S. P. A. of Cannes ...............
Dunkirk S. P. C. A ..............
Havre S. Prot. A ................
. Prot. A. of Lyons .............
P. C. A .....................

P. C. A. of Mentone ..........

Prot. A. at Pau ................
P. C. A ......................

.. and Birds ...............
.A. of Aschaﬁenburg .....

Gan-.94

S.
S.
S.
S.
S.
S.
S.
Berll
S.
. B
S.
S.
S.
S.
S.

U<U:
mMMM'

O

0420-2049-3049;

. Jacobus Reimers ............ . .

i H. R. H. Prince of Wales,
K. G.

l

E. Ardoin ....................
Charles Goudard-Malan .......
Alfred Dumont ..............
J. de Coninck ................
Louis Pugin ..................
Charles Gounelle ..............
Hubert A. Freeman ...........
Mrs. S. H. Adlam ............
Sir James Harris .............
Albert Coutaud ...............
Dr. H. Draper Speakman ......
Henry Paris .................

E. Elbing ....... .. ............
Dr. Greve .....................
F. H. Deubler ................

Maj. —Gen. D. von Parsevalu

H. Wetzlich ..................
—— Preu ....................
General Koring ...............
F. Stahr ......................
—— Bongartz ...............
Ad. Brinkman ................
P. Huch ......................
———- Nolte ...................
Dr. Rudolf Blasius ............

 

John Colam.

M. Vail.

Ch. Rocoﬁort.
Emile Pouleur.

G. Serrurier.
Charles Lebrun.
Edouard Rabaud.
M. Gioan.

Capt. Polli.

L. J. Jerome.
Gabrielle Lamguet.
Hubert A. Freeman.
Gaston Hamel.

J. Bernarts, Jr.
—— Trenkner.

Chr. Flemer.
-—-—- Weinig.
Dr. Hellig.
Heinr. Heuschmann.
Major Wagener.
Neumann.
Prof. Kiipper.
Dr. Kuhlmann.
C. Junge.
Rev. Sauberlich.
W. Koch.

 

Rev. Carl Wilhelm Peter ......

Martin Betting.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

GERMANY. -C’d.
Celle . . .
Chemnitz

Coburg

Cologne .
Constance
Crefeld

0.0.0.0...

0.00.0...

0.0.00.0...

 

 

Dantzig. . .
Darmstadtm .. . . . . . .
Dortmund. . . .
Dresden ..... . . . . .
Duisburg
Dusseldorf.
Elberfeld.

Elbing ..
Elmshorn . . . ..

mm<msmmAmmmmmAmmm
mmw~8mmmmmmmmm§

Essen

0.00.0000...

Feldberg

Flensberg.
F relberg

Frankfort-on- Main.
F rankfort -on- Oder.

Friederichstadt . . ..
Gelsenkirchen . . . ..
Glogau . . ....... . .
Gorlitz
Gotha
Greifenberg . .. .. ..
Greifswald . . . . . .

1‘

(DU)

 

D404D4D4D494D4D4D4m§

mo

D4.“

env1

ral

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

..A f Celle......
.A

0.00.. oonooottl

mal and Plant P. S. of the }
uchy of Coburg”
gne S. P. A.
.gA. of Constance
C. A. of the Lower Rhine”

A.
.A
.C.

.A. for the town and envi- }
nments of Essen ..... .. .
..C A. for the town and i
1ronments of F eldberg

Gorlitz”
the Duchy of Gotha.. . .

Baltic Ass’n Prot. A i

0

..C
..0A
...A
.C.
.C.
..C.
..A
A.
..A
A..

 

 

 

 

 

Dr. Schreckenberger.
Dr. Schwarze...

Max Brodfiihrer

Dr. Otto Hartmann. .
Rothenhaiisler
—— Printzen

0......

Dr. Borntraegerm

Dr. Eisenhuth..

H. Werneke

Dr. F. Schurig

A Van Meetereu
Georg Gundelach..
Heinrich Espenschied”
“ Staberow
M. \V. Reinhart

Prof. Dr. Meyer...

—— Koller .

A. F. J. Eiler..
Judge Vehse. . . ..
Dr. Carl Schenck
—— Schumann.
W. Pollitz . ..
Justice Greve.. .......... . . .
———- Richter .............

.Major Rudolf von Schollen. . . .

L Rausch ..... .
Rev. Mr. Rittner..

 

 

Rev. K. Gartner.
Rudolph Hartmann.

Adam Bruckner

Dr. V. Wiedmann.
Franz Walter.
Hermann VVeberling
Rich Rietzch.
Alexander G011.
E. Heusslein.

H. Landgraf.
-—-— Hiibler.

Carl Grundmann.
F. Schumacher.

-——— Engel.
Prof. Dr. Meyer.

-—— Kaefke.

A. Jorgensen.
Wolf.

Alfred Geiger.

Rev. Mr. Bieder.

J. Sieden.

Prof. Oberwinter.

G. Volckman.
——-— Jahnke.

 

 

 




 

 

GERMANY—Continued
Gustrow ........ . . .
Halle ...... . .. . . . .
Hamburg . . . . .....
Hanover . .. .. . .
Heide . . . . . . .
Hilchenbach.
Hirschberg .......
Homburg .........
Itzehoe

Jena ..............
Karlsruhe .........
Kattowitz .........
Kiel ......... . . . . .
Koenigsberg ......
Landshut .........
Langenschwalbach .
Lauban .......... .
Laugensalza... . . . . .
Leipzig ........ . . .
Liegnitz ..........
Liibeck
Ludwigshafen
Liineburg ..... . . ..
Malchin ..........
Mainz ............
Meissen ..........
Miilheim

Munich

:1)
.D
'5

magmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmn

mmmmmmmg

.in Gustrow ...........
.of Halle ..............

S. P. A ............ . . . .
.in Hanover ...........

f Leipzig ............
f Liegnitz ...........

Dr. Fritzsche .................
Dr. Tramhaijn ................
Prof. C. F. Schulz ............
Dr. Dammann ................
Dr. Lammers ................
H. Feldmann .................
Carl Wagner .................
Heinr. Mockel ................
J. H. Raasche ................
Dr. Rohrig ...................
F. Kaeﬂein ................... _
Rabbi Cohn ..................
Franz Schuck .................
Gen. Brausewetter ............
—— von Fuchs Bimbachs .....
—— Schutt ..................
Hermann Wende .............
—- Fischer ..................
Dr. Rob Klee ........ g .........
Dr. Otto Giithling ............
Dr. F. L. G. Wichmann .......
Sebast. Ledere ................
H. Reinecke ..................
Gustav I. Hamdorf ...........
Prof. Schlenger ...............
Dr. C. F. Schaufuss ...........
Dr. H. Schmitz ...............
Count Houlin .................

Mauermeister Hensel.
Dr. Ph. Bauer.
Wilhelm Stromeyer.
—— Sierds.

Carl Kraemer.

R. Schwandt.

Heinr. Schudt.

M. A. Brodersen.

K. Becker.

—— Rudiger.
Rev. Kloppenburg.
R. O. Hasperg.
———- Saurer.

—— Anacker.

-——-— Hanke.

Max Rabe.
Heinrich Reinisch.
F. F. Lund.
Charles Weingart.
Aug. Loﬂ'ler.

E. Thiel.

Dr. L. Schaum.
B. Zeidler.

Ernst Schiirmann.
M. Bunhard.

estphalian S. P. Wild Birds

and Domestic Fowls and A Prof. Dr. H. Landois ..........

——- Pohlis ...................
Rev. Mr. Steinfiihrer ...... . ..

Miinster . . . . . . . . . . Aug. Bollmann.

Rev. Hirschberger.
A. Mahn.

Neisse . ..
Neubrandenburg . .

000......

D-iD-i

..A of Neubrandenburg”

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

GERMANY—Continued
N eumiinster
N eustrelitz
N 6rdlingen
Nuremberg
Offenbach
Oﬁ'enburg .
Oldenburg .
Osnabruck . . . . . . . .
Passau..
Pforzheim
Pirna
Ploen
Posen
Remscheid . . . . . . . .
Regensburg
Ribnitz
Rostock
Saalfeld . . . . ..
Schleswig'
Schwerin
Sensburg. . . . . .
Siegen .......
Solingen . . . ..
Stargard . . .
Stettin
Strassburg i. E. . . .
Straubing . . . . . . . .
Strehlen ...... . .. .
Striegan . . . . . .....
Stuttgart . . . . .
Warstein
Wiesbaden

—__

.00...
.‘O.....
.......
.00....
.‘D.....
I......

.0...........

O...
.0000...
.Q .00...
O...
0....
IO...
0.

.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

9-:

:3
U52

e

<u<<<<
mmm °

mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm

8-1

<U<<gé<

Mmmmm

st

‘<<<UQ

U

C.

rel

itz s. P. 'c. A.

24'. 'iii Nﬁiéhiiiéég'.’ I .' I

.O.......

C...

 

E. Messtorﬂ’
B. Praefcke. .

Gottlieb Held.

 

00000.

Dr. Volckmar .....

O o

.

Heinrich Hermann. . . . .

.En'ciiéfiiiiii

I<

in Ribnitz. . . .
. of Rostock. . .

<d<

. ”of

4:

's'éiiie'skizig.’ .' '

........
........
00......

0......

Prof. Franz Dosch.........
Wilh. Kahtmann..............

Boker

J. Spahl ........
-——— Pﬁsterer
Julius Lutsche. . . . . .

H. Foerster. . . . . .

L. E. Meyer.
Ludwig Dolberg..
Ferd. Matz. . . . ..

Rudolf Schulz. . . . . . .....
Gottl. Arns. . . . . ........ ,' . ..

.OC.O.C.‘...O.

Dr. Maurer

C...‘O.....O0.0I|OO

'Aféi'v'vi'és'ﬁaicie'ﬁf I .'.' II "

Dr. T. Steen........

Rudi'Hocli...’ ..... . .....
Prof. Schirlitz ........
-——- Ziihl ........

.‘..l....

—— Steinwender. . . ......
A. Egglhuber. . . . . . ..
Otto Ulm .

00.

Count von Zeppelin. . . . .
——-— Kropz ....... .
Count A. von Bothm

 

Rev. Mr. F16rcke.. .......

Rev. Ed. Schneider: . .

I...

I...

I...

August Friedrich .........

0....

er....

—-— Kock.
M. Reckow.
J. Kellermann.

Francis Monniger.
Ernst Renk.

Dr. Mannheimer.
———— Kahler.
Joseph Alteneder.

. -——-— Berner.

O. Kaven.

Ed. Reissmiiller.
Recorder Fr. Paffrath.
A. Geitner.

H. Wilken.

Heinrich Teutmann.

Dr. T. Steen.

—-— Moller.

—— Dorn.

Dr. Hermann Bellebaum.
—— Reinhardt.

—— Bottge.

Rev. Ed. Schneider.
~— Kertzer.

G. Dechner.

' Rev. A. Bojanowski.
—— Schikor.

Johannes Seybold.
—-—- Wiesmeyer.

Count A. von Bothmer.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

INDIA—Continued.
Mandalay ...... . .. H. D. R. Tworney ............ Count Calderari.
Rangoon (Burma). .. . Rt. Rev. J. M. Strachan, M.D. W. Alan Leonard.
Smgapore......... .. .. .

.. . . St. Vincent Down.
IRELAND. \

[ Boag.
Belfast ....... .. The Ulster S. P. C. A .. Sir Wm. Q. Ewart, Bart. .. . . . W. H. Patterson & Robt.

Soﬁe ....... Cork 5. P. C. A..... """"" ' Alexander McOstrich, J.P..... John C. Newsorn.
u 1n .

_ .. .. . . . . Dublin S. P. C. A. . . . . . . . . Rt. Hon. Lord Ardilaun ..... . . George Ryall.
Kilkenny . . . . . . . . . S. P. A. . . . Thomas Kough.

Robert McCurdy.
Thomas Harpur.

Waterford Waterford s'fii'c. A333." ' ' rnere'rn‘nr'snon'o'r'oaen'eij:3:
Wexford County Wexford s. P. C.A...... {Rt Hon Lord Maurice}

Fitzgerald

ITALY.

Bologna . . . . . . . The Emiliana S. of Zoophily. . . . . Angela Diana Costetti. . . . . . . .. F. P. Gamberini.
Florence . .. . . . . S. Prot. of A. of Florence. . . . . .. Count G. Arrivabene. . . . . . . Gen. Giuseppe Mellini.

Genoa S. P. A.....n........ . Otto Penzig .............. Venceslas Carrara. 3°
G1rgent1 (Sicily) .. ..

. Bartolomeo Laguinima.
Magenta S. P. A. ..

Milan . . . . . . . . . . . .. The Lombardy Ass’n of Zoophily G. Bellini ..................... Prof. Giulio Cantu.
Naples . . . . . . . . . . . Naples S. P. A ..... . . . . Princess Mele Barese ...... . . . Leonard T. Hawksley.
Naples ...... . . . . . Neapolitan S. of Z. . . . . . . . . Celestino-Sindaco . . . . . . . . . . . . Dr. Adolfo Giordano.
Padua ...... MS.P.A Carlo Maluta...... ..... Cav. Tullio Nob. Abriani.
Palermo . . . . . . . . . . S. for Humane Education and PA. I. I. S. Whitaker. . . . . . . . . . . . . Vittorio Spataro.

Rome . . . . . . . . . . . .. Rome S. Prot. A. ........... . . . . Prince A. Doria Pamphili ..... T. Serras.

San Remo . . . . . . . . S. Prot. A. of San Remo. . . . .. . . . Michael G. Foster . . . . . . O. Piccone.

Turin Turin S. P. A. ...... . Cesare Durando.:::::::...... Franco Riccabone.
MALTA. S. P. A.......

NEWZEALAND.
Christchurch S. P. A...... . M. Murph..
Dunedin Otago S. P. CA Justice W1111ams.............. E. E..C. Quick.
Wellington S. P. A Jas. S. Jameson............... Franms Shaw.

 

 

 

 

 




 

NORWAY.
Arendal
Bergen
Christiania

Christiansand . . .

Drammen
Ibbestad .

Kongsvinger . .. . . .
Mosjoen . ..

ot. A. in Christiania. . . . . . . . .

—— Holpeldt ......

. —— Hagemann ..............

Georg Sverdrup ........... .. .
Hans Johnsen ............... ..
And. Larssen .............. . .
P. B. Opsion ............... ..
——- Prydtz ...................
O. Hals .................... .

Stavanger ..........
Trondhjern
Voss ....... . . . . . .

PORTUGAL.
Lisbon ...... . . .
Lisbon ...... . . . .. .
Oporto

Funchal . (Madeira)

RUSSIA.
Abo (Finland)

Archangel ... . . . . .
Astrakhan . . . . . .
Berdichev

Czernigow
Dwiasa

Ekaterinburg . . .

Uicdcdcﬁt/irjir/ic/immvi

mmmmmmmmmmm

E. Ronneberg .................
— Kauvin ................ . .

 

Grodna . . .

IOICOI“

. P. A. of Lisbon ...............
j.P.Domestic Animals of Portugal
S. P. A ................... . . . . . .
Funchal S. P. C. A ...............

i Archangel Section
Russian S. P. A. . .
i Astrakhan Section
Russian S. P. A ...........
i Berdichev Section of The {
Russian S. P. A ........... S
{ Czernigow Section

Russian S. P. A. ..

Ekaterinburg Section of The
Russian S. P. A. . .........

.‘.".0.."-'.II.O.QI0.0...

 

Ivar Hesselberg ...............

Julio d’Andrade ..............
Count of Paco Vieira ....... . .
Visconde de Guilhomil. .. . . . ..

W. W. Guweliakin. . . . . .......
Lieut.—Gen. Hasenkamf. . . . . . ..
N. M. Kossowsky ......... . .. .

Alex. Roschdestwensky. . . . . . .
Bar. von der Osten Driesen. . . .
Baron von Taube..............
D. N. Batinschnoﬁ’ ....... .. . . .

 

H. Regland.
E. Olsen.
Uscar Nickelsen.

Miss L. Harig.
N. Dons.

O. Hals.
Kund Kloster.
B. Thomassen.

[Heiton
Joaquim Carlos da Silva
Alfredo Henrique da Silva.
Alfred H. da Silva.

A. R. Spoof.

M. Makaroﬁ.

M. Qui.

A. Wilensky.
Alex. Tschemesky.
A. K. Kulikowsky.

K. N.Den1entjeﬂ’.
Z. W. Wolkowitsky.

8?

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Rtiisi A_iommi‘ei1d) s P c A

es1n ors ’ .

Kalishg... . .(. . . Kalish Sec. of The Russian S.P.A. P. P. Manassein.. . . . . . . Wladislaw Hmielewsky.
Kaluga Kaluga Sec. of The Russian S.P.A. S. Kukarin.......... M. W. Micheeff.

Kamenetz Section of The . . .
Kamenetz i Russian S P A..... .. i T. K. M1cha1ew1cz........... F. K. Czerwmsky.

Kazan............ Kazan Sec. ofTheRussiariS.P.A. T. N. Lange T. Goomelevysky.
Kiev . .. . . .. . . .. Kiev Sec. of The Russian S. P. A. O. O. Eichelmann ..... . . . W. Tynatow1tch.
Kovno . . . . . . . . . Kovno Sec. of The Russian S. P. A. Col. -Maj. A. Daronoﬁ’. . . . . . . —--— L1ndenbaum.
Krementchoug . { Kiﬁrlgesn:;hgugPSe’ction Of The i B. M. Orenstein. . . . . . . . . . . J. B. Orenstein.
Kursk . . . . . . . . . . . . Kursk Sec. of The Russian S. P. A. M. W. Zarin ....... . . . . . . . . . W. P. Kartoscheff.

Lodz Section of The Russian
140dz 0.3.0.0000... S P A.......

Mariopol . .. . . . . . . i M3331)? Saigon” Of The Rus- } W. Stankewicz. . . . . . . D. Charadshieff.

Melitopol { M33532; 8.812?an Of The i W. P. Kanatoﬁ’. .. .. Casper L. Chiudzinsky.

OOOOIOODOCO

Menselinsk........ ....................... -———Ostankoff.
Minsk . . . . . . . . . .. . Minsk Sec. of The Russian S. P. A. —— Onatzewitch. . Ossowsky.
Moscow ...... . . . . Moscow Sec. of The RussianS. P. A. N. A. Gedrinsky” . . . . Dr. N. I. Korotnerf.
Narva ..... . . . . N arva Sec. of The Russian S. P. A. J. L. Pawlowskiu . Julius Selten.
Nowoselitzi . . . . . .. A. T. Koreischa. . . . . . . . ‘T. A. Schawursky.
Nowotchorkask . .. Don Sec. of The Russian S. P. A. Maj .-Gen. Grekoff_. .. -— Turmoresoff.
Odessa ...... . . . Odessa S. Prot. A.. . . . . . . . . . Stephen John Ra111.. . . Leon Marguhs.

Omsk . .. . . .. . . . . .. Omsk Sec. of The Russian S. P. A. F. Sendczikowsky ..... . . . . . Sol_ov1eﬁ'.

Oofa . . . . . .. . . . . Oofa Sec. of The Russian S. P. A. P. E. Kindiakoff. . ...... . ..... ————— Johanowsky. .
Orel .. . . . . . . . . . . . . Orel Sec. of The Russian S. P. A. . Tereletzky. K11mow1tch.
Riga ...... . . . . . Livland S. P. A ...... Mary von Schilling ........ . . . Clara v. L1v1ngmann.
Simferopol . . . . . . .. Taurida Sec. of The Russian S. P. A. E. Kessler .............. . . —— Kazcouchoff.

St. Petersburg . . . . The Russian S. Prot. A. . . . . . . . .. Gen. ~Maj P. P. Lonskoi. . . . . . Col. P. P. Joukowsky.

Stavropol . . . . . . . . . i Staerpol Section Of The } A. S. Klutscharef. . . . . . . . . . . . . A. T. Taroshenko.

-——- Zacwilichowski. .. .. . . . Léon Jezierski.

Russian S. P. A...........

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

RUSSIA—Continued.
Thuemen (Siberia)

Tiﬂis . ............
Tobolsk (Siberia).
Tula . .
Uman
Vilna ......

Voronezh
Warsaw ..... .

Wischny Wolot-
schek ...........
Zytomir - ..... . . . . .

SCOTLAND.
Aberdeen .........
Arbroath . . ........

Dunfermline.
Edinburgh ........
Forfar ............

Glasgow ..........

Inverness ...... .

Perth .............
Tav1stock . . . . . . . ..

SOUTH AFRICA.
Cape Town _ .......

i Thuemen Section of The
Russian S. P. A ........... i
Tiflis S. Prot. A .................
Tobolsk S. P. A .................
Tula S. P. A ....................
Uman Sec. of The Russian S.P.A.

Vilna Sec. of The Russian S. P. A.

{ Voronezh Section of The i
Russian S. P. A ...........

Warsaw Sec.of The Russian S.P.A.

oooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

EZytomir Section of The Rus- }
s1an S. P. A ................

Aberdeen Ass’ 11 P. C. A ..........
Arbroath Branch Scottish S. P. C. A.

Scottish S. P. C. A ...............

§Glasgow and West of Scot-g
land S. P. C. A ............

ii Highland Branch of the Scot- i
tish S. P. C. A ..... A ........

 

Cape of Good Hope S. P. C. A.. .

 

 

—— Shiskowsky.

S. A. Klimoﬁ .................
L. M. Knioseﬁ ................
J. P. Zeitlin ...................
D. Levandoff .................
Maj.-Gen. O. K. Sharsky .....

A. A. Isaeff ..................

Baron I. Briining .............
i N. W. Essenowsky Tobol- %

kin
Baron de Chaudoire ...........

Lord Provost of Aberdeen... .
James A. Paterson ............

William Hunter ...............
The Lord Provost of Edinb’gh.

The Lord Provost of Glasgow
Right Hon. Lord Lovat ..... . .

F. Y. St. Leger, M.L.A

 

I. M. Pawloff.
L. N. Woloﬁ.
K. S. Twanoﬂ’.
—- Smolitch.
A. Rymschewiz.

K. W. Koniewsky.
— Golowatchewsky.
A. E. Sipatlo.

85

Alex. J. R. Thain.
David Littlejohn.

Thomas Buist.

Archibald Langwill, C.A.

Henry F. Lowndes.

Duncan Shaw.

. W. Pavel.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SOUTH AFRICA—Con.

Durban (Natal) S. P. C. AW. His Exc. Sir Walter Hely Thos. W. Edmonds.

‘ [Hutchinson
EastLondon...... S.P. CA E. H. Crouch.
Iohanneslggra R) S.P. CA Lionel Phillips............... W. F. Dunne.

Pietermaritz(bl\t}r% l) S. P. C. A. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . His Exc. Sir Walter Helv F. J. Dickson.
a a

[Hutchinson

SPAIN.
Barcelona
Cadiz
Gibraltar . . . .
Madrid
Malaga
Seville . . . .

ar elona S. P. A. and Plants. . . . Salvador Badia y Andren. . . . . Francisco de Maymo y Llo -
A -—-—Romualdo. [part

A

1.

A

mmmm

DSGovett H. W. Bailey.
C A
a

<1

andPlant PA ..... . 'J. Garcia de Toledo. Henry J. Huelin.
R. de Bustamente.

i

.n
P. S

SWEDEN.
Alingsas
Borgholm -. . . . . .. ..
Dalarne (Falun) . .
Eksjo
Gotland (Visby) . .
Grebbestad . .. .. ..
Goteborg ...... .
Hernosand . . . . .
Jonkoping .......
Karlskrona. . . . . . . .
Karlstadt .
Link'o'ping ....... ..
Lund
Lund . . ..... . . . . . .
Lyckeby

Rev. K. A. A. Hasselskog..... Albert Michelsen.
Rev. K. J. Hellgren........... J.Wi1ner.
C.J.‘Dahlb'ack ....... G. Ihrfelt.
. . . Aug. Peterson ............ Fr. Holmstrom.
J. O. Melin ..... L. W. Andersson.

........... . ..... Anny Busch... ..... Anders Johansson.
mall Birds and Animals. .. Consul Axel Idstrom. ...... . . . C. J. Gardell. "

. Dr.A.O.Arenander ..... A. Wikstrom.
Rektor J. P. Lagergren ..... .. R. Nordenstam.
Rev. Nils Hussenius..... ..... J. J. Blomberg.
Oscar Stjerne... ....... . Dr. Conrad Fristedt.
Dr.A.Sterner............ G. A. Wallen.
S.L.Tornqvist..... ...... V.E.Bohm. ..
A Fredrick Krebs Aurore Ytterstrom.
Rev. H. Bergstrom............ Harry Stalfors.

94949404949494

4£<44<m
'mmmmmmﬁ

<<<<<é

9-:
(/2
'CJ

,4
8-4

a
a;

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

SWEDEN—Continued.
Malmo ...........
Morsil
N orrk'oping .......
N iittraby ..........
N j urunda .........
N orrbotens léin (Lu-

lea) .............
Olofstrom .. .. .....
Orebro ...........
Ostersund .........
Ronneby ..........
Sillhofda .........

ooooooooooo

DJQJDJo-In-I min—JQJDJQJn-I

A
A .........................
A .........................

 

......................... Ernst Schoug.................

J. O. Ocklind .................
Rektor A. Hacklin ............
Rev. J. N. Melander ..........

. A. Westberg .................

Rev. 0. A. Wester ............
J. Larson .....................
Dir. O. M. Agrelius ...........

Dr. J. Th. Gronvall. ..........
I. Elmquist ................... '

Carl Lindqvist.
L. Pettersson.
Dr. Joh. Hulting.
Ivar Espelund.

Knut Hallman.
Sven Svenson.
E. Adlertz.

L. Holst. _
J. Andersson.

A. Th. Wahlstrom.
Baron Ludvig von Platen.
P. G. Isberg.

C. E. Ljungberg.

R. Knos.
G. von Heijne—Lillienberg.
N. J. Nystrom.

E. Westerlund.
Frans Berggren.

Captain Hj. Uggla ...........
Baron Carl C :son Bonde ......
Mrs. Josephine Varenius ......
Count G. von Rosen ..........
Chr. L. Tenow ...............
H. Akerstrom ................
Rektor S. Lundqvist ..........
Rektor Aug. Bystedt ..........

C. N. Pahl ...................
Ch. E. von Oelreich ...........

S. . A .........................
Swedish S. P. A .................
Swedish Women’s Branch ........
Stockholm Branch S. P. A .......
S. Antivivisection ................
Northern S. P. A ................

CL:

Skofde ...........
Stockholm ........
Stockholm ........
Stockholm ........
Stockholm ........
Stockholm ........
Strengnas ....... ..
Sundsvaal .........
Westerbottens Ian

(Umea) ...... . . .
Vexio ............

87

SWITZERLAND.

. Aargau ...........
Basie .............
Berne .............
Bienne ............
Burgdorf
Chur .............
Fribourg . . . . . ..
Geneva ...........

H. Hasler.

Dr. Hans Keller.

F. Witschy.

Albert Chopard.

Dr. H. Stickelberger.
Dr. Michel v. Valer. ‘

Prof. Otto Moser. 1 j
Eugene de Bude.

Dr. H. Fischer ................
Prof. P. Bohringer ............
S. W. Kuhn ..................
Henri Thalmann ..............
Joseph Rey ...................
Maj. Hartm. V. Caviezel ......
Rev. Charles de Raemy .......

oooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

S.P.C.A. in the Canton of Aargau
S. P. A .........................
S. P. C. A .......................
Bienne S. Prot. A ................
S. P. A .........................
Union of Soc’s P. C. A. in Chur. . .
Fribourg S. P. C. A .............
Vaudoise S. Prot. A .............

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SWITZERLAND—Confd
Langenthal . . . . .
Lausanne
Lucerne
Neuchatel . .. ..

Nyon

Rolle.............
Soleure
St. Gall
Toggenburg
Thun
Vevey
Zurich

TASMANIA.
Hobart
Launceston . . . . . . .

TURKEY.
Candia (Crete).

 

 

 

 

 

 

A Ed. Mﬁller-Jaggi............. F. Schneeberger.
.C. A. inLangenthal......... ————-Cousin. ..... E. Chavannes.

A. Rob. Marbacher.............. Dr. Bucher.

chat e1 S. Prot. A. Rev. Mr. Lardy............... Eugéne Courvoisier.
c1333}. 13f ﬁgoil/audinothe} Eugéne Gamboni.............. Louis Maquelin.
A ———-— Reymond................ —— Schopfer.
.A. T. Arnold Prof. Servert.
.C. A. in St. Gall............ C. Tuppinger................. T. Edelmann.
.C. A. ofToggenburg........ J.Edelmann.................. —-——- Scherrer.
:2: A. Knechtenhofer............. F. Brandt.
.A

£34940; 3V5

G. Pfeiffer.................... H. Burnier.
G. Suter..................... G. Naegi.

mmmszmmmmmmm

“mmmmmmm

Southern Tasmanian S. P. A..... R. G. Hamilton............... Miss M. S. Gillibrand.
Northern Tasmanian S.P . Mrs. P. O. Fysh.

 

 

S. P. CA M. E. von'Schwartz..........

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

90

COLUMBIA COUNTY.

WHITBECK, CORNELIUS ............................... Craryville
DELAWARE COUNTY.

CHAMBERLAIN, JAMES ............................ Margaretville

REYNOLDS, KILE M .......... . ........................ Cooks Falls

WHITLOCK, CYRUS .............................. West Davenport
DUTCHESS COUNTY.

CRUSE (M.D.), THOMAS K .................... Wappinger’s Falls
MOITH, THEODORE ....................................... Fishkill
ESSEX COUNTY.

ACOME, JOHN ....................................... Ticonderoga
MINER, WILLIAM ..................................... Ticonderoga
RICHARDS, WALTER W. ......................... Ticonderoga
FRANKLIN COUNTY.

DONOHOE, M. C ........................................... Malone
ROBERTS, WILLIAM F ............................. Saranac Lake
FULTON COUNTY.

BUTTON, MILLARD F ................................ Gloversville
DAY, JULIUS B ........................................... Mayﬁeld
HOWE, DUANE ......................................... Broadalbin
KIBBE, ARTHUR D ................................... Gloversville
LENTZ, WILLIAM ..................................... Iohnstown
ROOT, ERASTUS ...................................... Gloversville
GENESEE COUNTY.

HOUSTON, FRANKLIN ................................... Le Roy
ROGERS, JOHN L ....................................... Pembroke
GREENE COUNTY.

DECKER, ROSCOE ...................................... Prattsville
EGGLESTON, GEORGE ............................... Tannersville
MOON, WILLIAM H .................................... Windham
REILLY, JOSEPH .......................................... Catskill
WELLS, CHRISTOPHER ............................... Coxsackie

WILLARD (M.D.), CHARLES E ........................... Catskill

 

 




 

 

91

_ EERKIMEB COUNTY.
HALL, H. CLAY ......................................... Little Falls

KLEM, PHILIP G“ ................... Herkimer
SPOFFORD, JULIAN G .................................. Dolgeville

JEFFERSON COUNTY.
WARD, PETER A ....................................... Watertown

LEWIS COUNTY.
DRYDEN, JOHN D .................................... Copenhagen

LIVINGSTON COUNTY.

DUFFY, TERENCE H ........................................ Avon
RYAN, JOHN H ........................................... Conesus
SHULTS, WARREN D ............................... Mount Morris

MADISON COUNTY.

BARLOW, C. F .......................................... Canastota
BRYANT, HAROLD ...................................... Brookﬁeld
DE GROODT, FRED E .............................. Pratt’s Hollow
GAVIN, JOHN .......................................... ‘. .Hamilton
LIPPITT, F. B ............................................. Madison
LOCKMAN A ............................................ Cazenovia
PERRY (M.D.), C. H ........................................ Oneida
TEALE, B. S ......................... , ....................... Oneida
WARREN, JOB A ........................................ De Ruyter

MONTGOMERY COUNTY.
FOX, BROWNELL C ................................... Canajoharie

NASSAU COUNTY.

BENNETT, DR. MORTIMER R. BEAUDOIN .............. Hewlett
BRUNDAGE, JOSEPH H ................................. Sea Cliff
CLOWES, LEWIS H .................................... Hempstead
COFFIN, BENJAMIN L ................................. Thomaston
CORT, THOMAS HENRY .............................. Cedarhurst
FLOYD-JONES, G. STANTON ........................ Massapequa
HELLAND, CHARLES E .................................. Freeport

MILLER, FERDINAND F .......... ' ........................ Seaford

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

92

MOORE, ALLEN E .................................... Central Park
POWERS, THOMAS E .................................... Freeport
VAN WAGNER, GEO. E ............................. Locust Valley
VAN WAGNER, WILLIAM .......................... Locust Valley

NIAGARA COUNTY.

BRACKENRIDGE, WM. A ............................ Niagara Falls
HODGE (M.D.,) JOHN W ........... - ................. Niagara Falls
POMEROY, D. N .......................................... Lockport
THURSTON, BENJAMIN F .......................... Niagara Falls

ONEIDA COUNTY.

BIELBY, ISAAC P ........................................... Utica
STEPHENS, EUGENE ................................. Barneyveld

ON ON DAGA COUNTY.
OTIS, ISAAC C ............................................. Jordan

ONTARIO COUNTY.
NORTON, EDGAR ................................. East Bloomﬁeld

ORANGE COUNTY.

DUNNING, JOHN B ................................... Middletown
MILLS, JAMES J ....................................... Port Jervis
ORR, JAMES A ......................................... Port Jervis
NELSON, MOSES F ................................. Highland Falls
PURDY, CHAS. ........................................ Middletown

ORLEANS COUNTY.

SMITH, SAMUEL W ........................................ Holley
VAN STONE, WM. T ........................................ Albion

OSWEGO COUNTY.

NEWMAN, E. G ................................... North Hannibal
PENFIELD,W.H ......................... \...............,.Mexico

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  

 

 

 




 

 

93

OTSEGO COUNTY.

CRAMER, ALMOND ................................. Cherry Valley
DOAN, JOHN K ....................................... Cooperstown
JOHNSON, HOWARD R .................................. Oneonta
PLATT, CHARLES M ...................................... Morris
SITTS, JOHN H ................................... Richﬁeld Springs
TIPPLE, ORRA L ........................................ Schenevus
TOWN, MILO O ................................. Richﬁeld Springs

PUTN AM COUNTY.

BENNETT, WALTER J .................................. Mahopac
MCCAFFREY, MICHAEL T ................................ Putnam

QUEENS COUNTY.

APPLEGATE, JACOB A .................................. Flushing
BUSCH, ADAM ....................................... Woodhaven
DUSIN G, WILLIAM ........................ 231 Ninth Ave., Astoria
POST, JR., JAMES B ................................ Richmond Hill

RICHMOND COUNTY.
ELLIOTT, GEORGE ................................. New Brighton

SARATOGA COUNTY.
SIMON, Jr., BENJAMIN T ......................... Ballston Spa

SCHUYLER COUNTY.

SULLIVAN, JOHN D ...................................... Watkins
WAIT, LEWIS ............................................. Watkins

SENECA COUNTY.
KNIGHT, LEWIS J ..................................... Farmer

STEUBEN COUNTY.

ALDEN, DR. PHILO L .............................. Hammondsport
BURKE, THOMAS W ..................................... Addison
FERGUSON, WILSON E ...................................... Bath
HENDEE, BURDETTE C .............................. Hornellsville

LAIN, CORNELIUS H ..................................... Canisteo

 

 

 

 

 




  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

94

LANE (M.D.), GEO. W .................................... Corning
SHELDON, JOHN R .................................. Hornellsville
WILKES, ROBERT B .......... y ............................... Bath
VAN NESS, ELIAS J ........................................ Avoca

SUFFOLK COUNTY.

BALCHEN, OSCAR L .................................. _...Baby10n
CALL, FRANK H ....................................... Bay Shore
CON KLIN, GEORGE W ................................ Huntington
HOWELL, WILLIAM M .................................. Setauket
HOWARD, Jr., GARRETT W ......................... Greenport
KOHR, GUSTAV ......................................... Smithtown
MOTT, BURTIS F ......................................... Babylon
OVERTON (M.D.), FRANK ............................. Patchogue
PAYNE, CHARLES W ................................. Sag Harbor
REEVES, DETMOLD .................................... Greenport
ROGERS, JOHN F .................................... Southampton
SEAMAN, JOHN D .................................... Brookhaven
SIMONS, FRANCIS W ............................... Shelter Island
SMITH, CHARLES F .................................... Cutchogue
SPEAR, THEO A ................................ Smithtown Branch
STRONG, JAMES S ...................................... Wainscott
SUYDAM, WALTER L .................................. Blue Point
VAIL, ALFRED R ......................................... Southold
WRIGHT, JAMES .............................. Cold Spring Harbor.

SULLIVAN COUNTY.

CREVELING, REV. P. C .................................... Liberty
DECKER, A. A ...................................... Mountain Dale
GRANT, EDWARD W ...................................... Liberty
MEYER, VALENTINE A ............................... Long Eddy
SHEELEY, ORRIN R ....................................... Liberty

TIOGA COUNTY.
BEEBE, CLARK W .......................................... Candor

ULSTER COUNTY.

BECKETT, FRANK B ................................. Highland
OSTRAN DER, DE WITT W ............................ Clintondale
POTTER, FRANK J ...................................... Ellenville

 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 

 

 

 




 

 

95

WARREN COUNTY.

BURNETT, WILLIAM H .............................. Lake George
FLETCHER, MYRON ................................. North Creek
HAMMOND, LESLIE .................................... Hill View
HARRIS, E. S ......................................... Lake George

WASHINGTON COUNTY.

JAKEWAY, FRED ...................................... Fort Miller
TEMPLE, ALLEN S ...................................... Whitehall
WALSH, JAMES ............ l ............................. I.Granville

WAYNE COUNTY.

AGETT, WILLIAM W ....................................... Lyons
DAVENPORT, CLARENCE F ............................... Huron
DUNN, HOMER C ........................................... Lyons
MORSE, LEWIS H ........................................ Newark
RICH, JOSEPH C .......................................... Marion

WESTCHESTER COUNTY.

ANGEVINE, GILBERT J ............................... Mt. Vernon
BACON, MARSHAL L ............................... Tarrytown
BARR, JOHN H ......................... Irvington
BEACH, ROBERT J ................................. Pelham Manor
BERBERT, FREDERICK ...................... Hastings—on-Hudson
BERESFORD, ARCHIBALD ............................ Mt. Vernon
BRIGHT, MARSHAL H .............................. Tarrytown
BURDSALL, RICHARD H ............................ Port Chester
COLLINS, HIRAM J ................................... Mt. Vernon
FARLEY, JOHN M ................................... White Plains
FLINT, F. W ............................................ Larchmont
FOSHAY, HARRY E ................................... Mamaroneck
GARNJOST, FERDINAND ............................... Yonkers
HART, FRED R .......................................... Mt. Kisco
HOYT, CHARLES H .................................. Pleasantville
HUSS, HENRY ......................................... Mt. Vernon
HYLSEN, RUDOLPH .................................... Bronxville
KONRAD, AUGUSTUS .................................. Tarrytown
MAHONEY, JOHN H ............................. North Tarrytown
MCKINLEY, WILLIAM .............................. New Rochelle

MUNSON, LESTER D .................................... Peekskill

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

96

O’BRIEN, JOHN J .................................... New Rochelle
PAGE, ALBERT W ...................................... Chappaqua
PEARSALL, ROWLAND E .............................. Chappaqua
PHELPS, ALBERT E ............................. ....... Irvington
SHERMAN, VINTON ................................. Port Chester
SLOCUM, WILLIAM E .................................... Ardsley‘
SORDEN, CHARLES E .................................. Tuckahoe
STUDWELL, WILLIAM L ............................ Port Chester
WOOD, JAMES B ..................................... White Plains

WYOMING COUNTY.

BRIDGEN, REV. ARTHUR E ................................ Attica
GIFFORD, DR. WILLIS B ................................... Attica
LINDSAY, 2D, JOHN ........................................ Castile

YATES COUNTY.
HAYS, FREEMAN W ................................... Penn Yan

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

‘‘‘‘‘
>11

 
  
 
 
 
   
   
 
   
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
    
  
 
 
   
  
  
  
 
   
  
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

  

Dawson, Benjamin Fred’k

de Bazus, Baroness Flor-
ence

De Sers, Mme.La Comtesse

Devendorf, Miss Dorothy

DeWitt, George G.

Dey, Anthony

Dickinson, Mrs. H. A.

Dodge, Mrs. Charles Cleve’d

Dodge, Norman W.

Draper, Mrs. Henry

Driggs, Silas W.

Dunlap, Cornell

E

Eaton, Mrs. Cornelia
Eaton, William S.
Eger, Mrs. T. G.
Ehret, George

Eno, Wm. P.

Eno, Mrs. William P.
Ewen, Miss C. G.

F

Faber, Mrs. Angelica B.
Fairfax, Mrs. Lindsay
Flower, Frederick S.
Ford, James B.

Ford, William T.
Fordham, Robert A.
Foster, James

G

Gasper, Mrs. Jennie Beach
Gebhard, William H.
Gerrish, Mrs. Frank Scott
Gilbert, Frederick E.
Gillette, William
Gudewill, George
Guggenheim, Benjamin
Guggenheim, Solomon
Gunning, William J.

Hadden, John A.

Haight, Mrs. Alicia
Haines, John P.

Haines, Mrs. John P.
Halsey, Mrs. Frederic Robt.
Harragh, Charles J.
Hawkins, Gen. Rush C.
Hentz, Miss Helen L.
Hentz, Miss Mary R.
Hicks, Benjamin D.
Hochstaetter, Wm. John
Hoe, Jr., Robert
Holbrook, Miss Lilian
Howard, Bronson
Howard, Mrs. Bronson
Hubbard, Thomas H.
Humfreville, J. Lee
Hunt, Miss Ann
Huntington, Archer M.

Kennedy, John S.
Kingman, Mrs. Martin E.
Kip, Henry S.

Kohlsaat, J. W.

Kraus, Miss Emma

L’Amoreaux, Hon. J. S.
Lanier, Charles

 

H

 

I

Iselin, Adrian

J

Jesup, Morris K.
Johnson, Dr. S. K.
Johnston, J. Boorman

K

L

   

 




 

 

Larson, Miss Emma C.

Lawrence, R. Ashton

Lee, Miss Alleine

Leeds, Mrs. Warner M.

Lewis, Mrs. Henry Dickin-
son

Liautard, Dr. A. F.

Lilley, C. W.

Low, Joseph T.

Lung, Dean

M

McClellan, Hon. George B.

McCurdy, Robert H.
Markoe, Dr. Francis H.
Marlor, Henry S. .
Marsh, John Edward
Marshall, Charles H.
Mayer, Otto L.
Meeker, Mrs. C. H.
Merritt, Miss Mary E.
Meyer, Mrs. H. Von L.
Milbank, Joseph
Milbank, Mrs. Joseph
Miller, William Starr
Mitchell, Roland G.
Moﬁ'at, Miss Myra
Molloy, Mrs. Alice
Morss, Mrs. Mary T.
Mott, Jordan L.
Moulton, Miss Eliza
Moulton, Mrs. F. A.
Murray, John B.

N
Newton, Mrs. R. H.

O
O’Brien, William
Odell, Hon. Benjamin B-
Olcott, Miss Edith
Olcott, F. P.
Olcott, Hon. Wm. M. K.

Olmsted, Mrs. Charles T
Osborn, William H.

P

Parrish, James C.
Peabody, George Foster
Platt, Hon. Thomas C.
Plimpton, George A.
Post, Edwin A.

Pyne, Jr., Moses Taylor

R

Reusens, G.

Rhinelander, Miss S.
Rhines, Mrs. Isaac Olcott
Ripley, Harry Dillon
Ripley, Sidney Dillon
Robbins, Mrs. Milton
Rogers, H. H.

Rogers, Mrs. M. S.
Rolfe, Mrs. N. D.
Roosevelt, Hon. Theodore
Root, Hon. Elihu
Ruppert, Jacob

Russell, Jr., Archibald D.
Russell, Hon. Horace

S

Scharmann, H. B.
Schermerhorn, Mrs. J. W.
Seligman, DeWitt J.
Seligman, Jefferson
Seligman, Mrs. Jefferson
Sherman, George
Sherman, William Watts .
Slater, Hon. Samuel S.
Smith, Miss Alice

Smith, Mrs. A. J.

Smith, Dr. Edward A. .
Smith, Floyd Reeves
Smith, Miss Josephine C.
Spence, Miss Clara B.

 

 

vh 4~¢
\

,
, ,_ f “ “l

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Squier, E. George
Standish, Mrs. Myles
Stevens, Frederick W.
Stillman, Miss B. G.
Stokes, Miss C. P.
Stokes, Jr., James
Stokes, Miss Olivia E. P.
Stover, John G.

Straus, Nathan
Stuyvesant, Mrs. J. Reade
Suckley, Robert B.
Sulzer, Hon. William
Swezey, Mary E.

T

Taft, Elihu Barber
Taylor, George C.
Thompson, Fred. F.
Thorne, William
Townsend, Mrs. Howard
Trevor, Henry G.

Tuck, Edward

Tuck, Mrs. Edward
Turnbull, John

U
Uhlmann, Frederick

V

Valentine, Mitchel
Vanderbilt, F. W.
Vanderbilt, Mrs. F. W.
Van Kirk, Miss Lila

Van Rensselaer, Cortlandt

100

Van Renselaer, Jr., Cort-
landt S.

Van Rensselaer, Mrs. Cort-
landt S.

Van Rensselaer, Kiliaen

Von Post, H. C.

W

Wagstaﬁ’, Hon. Alfred
Wagstaﬁ‘, Mrs. Alfred
Walter, Mrs. Anna T.
Washington, Booker T.
Watson, George H.
Wendel, Miss Ella
Wendel, Miss Georgiana G.
R. .
Wharton, Edward R.
Wheeler, Miss Laura
White, Mrs. C. E.
Williamson, Mrs. Maria H.
Winans, Miss M. Antoin-
ette
Winship, L. A.
Winslow, Edward
Winthrop, Benjamin R.
Wolff, Agnes H.
Wood, Charles B.
Wood, Mrs. Charles B.
'Wyckoff, Mrs. Cora Dillon
Wynkoop, Dr. Gerardus H.

Y
Yuengling, Jr., David G.

Z
Zebley, Mrs. John F.

 

 




 

 

MEMBERS.

 

THE ANNUAL MEMBERSHIP SUBSCRIPTION IS FIVE DOLLARS.

 

A

Abraham, Abraham
Acker, Miss Delia F.
Ackerman, Miss Adelaide
Ackerman, E. W.
Aldrich, Mrs. James H.

Alexander, Miss Eleanor B.

Alexander, Mrs. H. A.
Alexandre, F. V.
Alexandre, J. H.
Allebone, Mrs. J. O.
Allien, Henry V.

Alter, David

Andresen, Mrs. L. E.
Andrews, Richard McG.
Armour, Mrs. H. 0.
Armstrong, James
Arnold, Dr. Edmund S. F.
Arnold, Louis
Arnstein, Albert
Arnstein, E.

Arnstein, Miss Edna
Arnstein, Leo

Aron, A.

Ashforth, Mrs. Freda
Ashley, Miss Jessie
Ashmore, Miss Dora L.

Ashmore, Mrs. Gertrude
Asiel, Miss Irma H.
Attridge, John
Auchincloss, Mrs. H. D.
Aucker, Mrs. Richard
Austin, Mrs. F. B.
Avila, Mrs. Samuel A.
Ayer, Frederick F.

B

Babcock, H. D.

Bachmann, Frederick

Backus, Mrs. Foster L.

Bacon, Jr., Mrs. Francis
McNiel

Bacon, Mrs. James F.

Bacon, Marshal L.

Baer, Meyer

Bailey, Mrs. O. S.

Bainbridge, Mrs. Henry

Baker, Robert B.

Baker, Mrs. S. J.

Baldwin, H. M.

Baldwin, Miss Kate C.

Ball, Ancell H.

Ball, John Oscar

Ballin, Oscar E.

Banks, Mrs. Theo. Howard

Barclay, R. C.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Barker, Miss Isabel R.

Barnes, Davis

Barnes, Mrs. Harriet S. .

Barnet, Miss Rose

Barney, Mrs. J. Stewart

Baronn, Miss Gertrude

Barrow, Mrs. J. Thomas

Barry, Miss A.

Barry, Wm. J.

Baruch, Hartwig N.

Bates, Charles A.

Bates, Mrs. Charles A.

Batonyi, A.

Battermann, H.

Baum, Mrs. Ada L.

Bayne, S. G.

Beach, Mrs. Emily S.

Bechtel, Mrs. Eva

Bedford, Miss Emily H.

Bedford, Miss Grace

Beer, Mrs. G. L. .

Beinert, Charles

Belais, Mrs. D.

Belford, William J.

Belknap, Mrs. W. M.

Bell, Bertrand F.

Bell, Gordon Knox

Bell, Jr., Master Gordon
Knox

Bell, Mrs. James

Bell, Thomas O.

Bender, Mrs. Adolf

Benedict, Eliot S.

Benedict, Miss Louise

Benet, Dr. Imlay

.3enet, Ludovic

Benjamin, A. Bedell

Benjamin, Mrs. A. Bedell

Benjamin, Miss Edith M.

Benjamin, Mrs. Wm. E.

Benton, Miss Louisa F.

Benton, Miss Susanna F. F.

Beram j i, R.

102

Berestrd, Archibald

Bergen, Mrs. Van Brunt

Berlin, H. C.

Bernheimer, Lorin S.

Bernheimer, Mayer S.

Bernheimer, Simon E.

Bethune, Faneuil Dunkin S.

Bethune, Mrs. Faneuil
Dunkin Stein

Bickel, Dr. Otto

Bickel, Mrs. Otto

Binder, Mrs. Marie

Birkbeck, Miss Alice

Bishop, F. C.

Bishop, Mrs. Heber R.

Bishop, Miss M. C.

Bishop, 3d, Wm. D.

Blake, Henry

Blake, Miss Kate W.

Blake, Peter

Blankley, Miss Jessie \IV.

Blashﬁeld, Mrs. Edwin H.

Bliss, Miss Augusta

Bliss, Mrs. E. W.

Bliss, Miss Ida E.

Bliss, Walter P.

Bliss, Mrs. W. H.

Bloch, Mrs. Elizabeth

Bloodgood, John H.

Blumberg, D.

Blyman‘, John

Boden, Mrs. James S.

Boehm, Felix

Bondy, M. S.

Borman, Sydney

Bourne, Frederick G.

Bowdoin, Miss Edith G.

Bowdoin, Mrs. George S.

Bowdoin, Temple

Bowdoin, Mrs. Temple

Bowers, Miss Ethel Boyd

Bowne, Mrs. Philip H.

Boyce, William

 

 




 

 

Boyd, Jr., Allan Stuart
Bradshaw, W. H.
Brady, Patrick
Bramholdt, Mrs. Sophia
Breese, Miss Eloise L.
Brewster, Mrs. William
Bright, Mrs. Henry
Brinley, E. B.

Bristol, Miss Fanny L.
Britton, Charles P.
Britton, Mrs. Harriet Lord
Brockway, Jr., H. H.
Broderson, S. N.
Brookes, Mrs. E. C.
Brooks, Miss Bertha G.
Brooks, Thomas W.
Broun, Miss E. W.
Brouwer, John H.
Brown, Addison
Brown, Albert C).
Brown, Edward W.
Brown, Gardner W.
Brown, Mrs. Vernon C.
Brown, W. J.

Brown, Mrs. Walston H.
Brownson, Mrs. W. H.
Bruns, C. A.

Bruns, Edwin G.
Brush, W. Franklin
Bryan, Charles S.
Buchanan, Mrs. C. P.
Bull, W. L.

Bull, Jr., W. L.

Bull, Mrs. W. L.

Bull, Mrs. William T.
Burdick, J. W.
Burkhard, Jacob
Burnett, S. O.

Burrell, Samuel P.
Burroughs, William V.
Busch, Mrs. Briton Niven
Butler, Charles S.
Byrnes, Rev. James P.

103

C

Cady, Mrs. J. C.
Caldwell, R. J.
Callaway, William T.
Callender, Miss Mary R.
Calm, Miss Berta
Camman, George P.
Cammann, Miss I. M.
Campbell, Alexander
Campbell,-John M.
Canty, Daniel

Carew, Mrs. L. B.
Carey, Mr:. A. B.
Carlebach, Emil
Carnochan, G. M.
Carpenter, Miss Agnes
Carpenter, Mrs. Miles B.
Carroll, J. D.
Carscallen, Mrs. J. D.
Cary, Mrs. W. F.

Case, Miss Mary L.
Cathcart, Miss Jane R.
Catlin, Miss C. L. R.
Catlin, Miss Cora V. R.
Catlin, Miss Edith R.
Cestero, Mrs. J. N.
Chapman, Mrs. E. N.
Chapman, Isaac E.
Child, Miss Ruth A.
Chisholm, Hugh J.
Choate, Hon. Joseph H.
Choate, Mrs. Joseph H.
Claghorn, Mrs. Charles
Clark, J. F. A. .
Clark, Mrs. Margaret
Clarkson, Mrs. David A.
Clay, Thomas Savage
Cleveland, Mrs. J. Wray
Clyde, Miss Mabel
Cobden, Rev. Richard
Coburn, Miss L. C.
Cockey, Edward C.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Coe, Mrs. Henry Clarke
Coe, Miss Miriam Storrs
Cofﬁn, Miss Adéle '
Cohen, Albert A.
Cohen, Solomon L. .
Cohen, Stanley A.
Colby, Miss May Colgate
Colby, William Colgate
Cole, Dr. Charles K.
Colgate, Mrs. A. W.
Colgate, Mrs. R. R.
Collamore, Miss Betty
Collins, Miss Ellen
Collins, Miss Margaret
Collord, George W.
Conklin, Miss Mary H.
Constable, W.
Constable, Mrs. Wm.
Cook, Mrs. A. H.

Cook, Frank D.

Cooke, Mrs. Laura E.
Coonley, Mrs. Howard
Cooper, L. A.

Corbett, C. H.

Cornell, Hon. Robert C.
Coudert, Frederic R.
Coutts, Mrs. G. H.
Cowles, Alfred A.

Cox, Mrs. John Watson
Coyle, Miss Antoinette
Cozzino, Mrs. Joseph A.
Crabbe, Miss Louise G.
Craigie, A. Walpole
Cramer, L. H.
Cravath, Mrs. Paul D.
Credo, Mrs. G.
Crimmins, Thomas E.
Crosby, Miss M. E.
Crossman, George W.
Crossmond, Mrs. L. D.
Crowell, Edward B.
Cruikshank, Mrs. A. \V.
Culver, Mrs. Everett M.

104

Cummings, George F.
Cummings, Robert J.
Cunningham, Frank
Curie, Charles

Curie, Jr., Charles
Curtiss, Mrs. Frank
Curtiss, Miss Sophia

D

Dailey, Miss May Belle
Dalley, Henry

Dalzell, Mrs. Mildred
Damrosch, Mrs. Walter
Danner, Louis G.
Darrell, Edward F.
Darrigrand, Alexander A.
Darrigrand, Miss Lucie
Davidson, Miss Clara
Davies, Mrs. Mansﬁeld
Davies, William Gilbert
Davis, J. Edward

Day, Clarence VS.

Day, Mrs. H. M.

De Bost, William L.

De Coppet, H.

De Coppet, Mrs. H.

De Cordova, Alfred
DeGroot, Miss Emma P.
Dehon, Miss M. H.
Dejonge, Louis

Delano, Miss Jean W.
DeLashmut, Mrs. G.
Dendi, T.

Dentz, Miss J.

Dentz, Miss L. J.

De Rigaud, Mrs. Clara
Despard, Mrs. C. L.
Despard, W. D.
Despard, Mrs. W. D.

De Vinne, Miss Emma E.
De Wolfe, Miss Elsie V.
Dick, Mrs. W. B.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Flint, Jr., Mrs. Austin
Flint, Mrs. Charles R.
Flint, Miss Helena
Foller, Nicholas
, Fontaine, Samuel S.
Foote, E. V.
Forbes, Miss Agnes
Forepaugh, Miss Lily
Forney, Matthias W.
Fox, Mrs. Austen G.
Fox, Charles A.
Fox, Mrs. Rector Kerr
Franks, C. Douglas
Franks, Mrs. L.
Franzreb, Henry
F ranzreb, John
Freedman, Andrew
Freeman, Prof. James J.
Freeman, W. D.
French, Mrs. Leigh H.
Friedmann, H. G.
Frothingham, Miss Bea-
trice ‘
Frothingham, H. P.
F rothingham, Miss Lillian
Friihauf, Miss Victoria

G

Gabriel, Mrs. Adolf

Gaisman, H. J.

Gallaher, Mrs. Julia A.

Gallatin, Frederic

Garcier, Mrs. Francisco

Gardiner, Mrs. Lion

Gardner, Dr. A. R.

Gates, Isaac E.

Gatter, Miss Elizabeth
Almy

Gatter, Miss Georgia

Gaus, Henry L.

Gaus, John L.

Gazzam, Mrs. A. R.

106

Gebauer, Dr. Max

Gelb, Mrs. Gertrude

Gellatly, Mrs. John

Georgen, W. T.

Gerrish, Miss C. M.

Gibb, John

Gibbes, Miss Z.

Gibert, Sr., Mrs. F. E.

Gilbert, Miss Kathleen

Gilford, Samuel T.

Gillespie, Miss Josephine A

Gitterman, Mrs. John Mil-
ton

Glatz, Mrs. ,Pauline

Godfrey, Charles H.

Goetze, Otto .- .

Goin, Mrs. James D.

Golding, John N. “ ; .

Golding, Jr., John Noble

Golding, Robert Noble

Goldsmith, Fred. _

Goodrich, George Selden

Goodrich, Mrs. Thomas F.

Gould, Frank J.

Gould, George J.

Gould, Mrs. George J.

Gould, Miss Helen Miller

Graef, Mrs. Harry C.

Graham, Miss Mary Doug-
las

Granata, Genserico

Grant, Rev. Percy S.

Grant, Mrs. Ulysses S.

Grant, W. Wallace

Grauer, George

Greaney, John

Greer, Austin M.

Greer, D.D., Rev. David H.

Gregory, Charles N.

Greppe, Theodore

Grismer, Joseph R.

Grismer, Mrs. Joseph R'.

Griswold, Mrs. George

:3
. ' ’l

 




 

 

Griswold, Miss Sarah D.
Gross, Albert H.
Grosvenor, Mrs. J. B. M.
Grosvenor, Miss Ursula
Grosvenor, D.D., Rev.
Wm. M.
Gruner, Mrs. Siegfried
Guggenheimer, Hon. R.
Guggenheimer, Mrs. R.
Guiterman, Rudolph
Gunther, Henry

Gwyer, Mrs. Fred Walker ':

H

Haddock, J. W.

Haffen, John

Hague, Miss M.

Haight, Miss Saidee B.
Haight, Stephen S.

Hale, Mrs. Thomas

Hall, Mrs. Humes
Halsted, C. Stockton
Halsted, David C.
Hamilton, Miss Helen M.
Hamilton, Mrs. Wm. P.
Hansel, Mrs. Howell
Hanshew, Dr. E.

Hard, Anson W.

Hardy, Miss Ruth
Hggrave, Miss Katharine

Harkness, Mrs. S. V.

Harris, Isaac

Harris, Mrs. Laura C.

Harris, Mrs. Wm. Hamil-
ton

Harrison, Mrs. Charles C.

Harrison, Mrs. Mary L.

Hart, Charles

Hart, George H.

Hartley, Mrs. Marcellus

Harwood, Miss Julia V.

 

Hascall, Miss Florence
King
Hascall, T. F.
Hastings, Mrs. A. F.
Hastings, Chas. F.
Hastings, Mrs. W. C.
Hatch, Mrs. Mary R.
Hatch, Miss Nathalie
Hathaway, Charles E.
Havermeyer, Mrs. Theo. A.
Haviland, S. W.
Hawley, Edwin
Hayes, Mrs. Cora G.
Haynes, Miss L. de F.
Hays, Mrs. G. D.
Healey, A. Augustus
Heaton, Mrs. Chas. A.
Heckscher, John G.
Hedden, Mrs. F. S.
Heffter, M.D., Minnie
Heighe, Miss Lisa W.
Heller, Clarence
Heller, Mrs. E. L.
Hellfeld, Miss Anna D.
Hellman, Mrs. Theodore
Hencken, Hancke
Henderson, Mrs. Charles
Hendricks, Charles
Hendricks, Mrs. Charles
Hendrickson, M.D., Clif-
ford W.
Henle, Mrs. Wanda
Henry, William
Hentschel, Charles
Hentz, Henry
Hentz, L. S.
Hentz, Mrs. Mary B.
Hepp, M.D., Chas. Theo-
dore
Herr, Mrs. A.
Herrick, M.D., Everett
Herrman, Mrs. Esther
Herrmann, Mrs. L.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

Herzfeld, Richard

Herzig, Leopold

Herzog, Albert

Hess, Mrs. Nathaniel

Hess, Selmar

Hett, Edward

Hewson, J. H.

Higginson, Miss Dorothy
L

Higginson, Miss Elizabeth
B

Hildebrandt, Miss Clara
Hile, Miss Annie-

Hill, Arthur T.

Hill. Warren E.

Hinkel, Miss Minna
Hinton, Miss S. McV.
Hitchcock, Welcome G.

Hitchcock, Mrs. Welcome G.

Hix, Mrs. Preston
Hoe, Richard M.
Hoe, Mrs. Richard M.
Hoefer, Charles R.
Ho-egg, William
Hoffman, F. B.
Hoffman, Jacob
Hoffman, Samuel V.
Hogan, Charles W.
Hohns, Herman
Holbrook, Edward
Holbrook, Mrs. Edward
‘ Holden, Mrs. K. V.
Hollins, Mrs. H. B.

Hollister, Dr. Frederick K.

Hone, Mrs. Chas. Russell
Hood, David

Hooper, Mrs. N. Newlin
Hopf, Max G.

Hopkins, H. C.

Hopkins, Mrs. Sheldon

Hopkinson, Miss Jennie M.

Hoppin, Miss F. S.
Hornthal, Lewis M.

Horrmann, Charles
Horrmann, William
Horton, James M.

Horton, Wm. K.
Houghton, Arthur A.
Houghton, Mrs. Arthur A.
Howe, Wirt 7
Hoyke‘ndorf, Miss Alma
Hoyt, Miss Elizabeth
Hubbs, Mrs. C. F.

Huber, Joseph

Hudson, Mrs. Alice P.
Hunt, Charles W.
Hunter, Mrs. Florence H.
Huntington, Mrs. C. P.
Hupfel, J. C. G.

Hutchins, Aug. S.
Hutchins, William E.

I

Ibert, Frank

Ingersoll, Miss Maud
Ingersoll, Mrs. Robert G.
Iselin, C. Oliver

Iselin, Miss G.

Iselin, Mrs. Wm. E.
Israel, Siegmund

Ives, Miss Pauline

Ives, Wm. Jay

J

Jackson, B. A.
Jackson, F. W.
Jackson, George A.
Jackson, Mrs. Joseph C.
Jackson, Miss Katharine S.
Jackson, Theo. F.

acobsen, Christian Martin
iennewein, Valentine

esup, Charles M.
Jevons, Thomas E.

 
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
    

 




 

 

 

Jewitt, Mrs. Edward G.
Jex, Miss Emily D.
Jex, Mrs. Josiah
Jim, Mah
Johnson, Dr. David S.
Johnson, F. Coit
Johnson, Joseph
Johnston, William
Jones, Mrs. Cadwalader
Jones, Miss Caroline 0.
Jones, Miss Eleanor M.
Jones, Floyd-, Mrs. Geo.
Stanton
Josephtal, Louis
Judson, Mrs. Louise L.
Jurgens, W. B. A.

K

Kahn, Isidor

Kane, S. Nicholson
Kane, Miss Sybil Kent
Karr, Mrs. George L.
Kaufman, B.

Kean, Mrs. Hamilton F.
Kean, Robert Winthrop
Keasbey, Robert A.
Keator, Mrs. T. R.
Keech, Mrs. Frank B.
Keene, Mrs. Fo-xhall P.
Kelly, Edward F.
Kelly, Phillip F.

Kelton, Mrs. C. F.
Kemeys, Walter S.
Kempf, Charles
Kendall, Miss Georgiana
Kennedy, Charles W.
Kennedy, Mrs. H. V. R.
Kennedy, William L.
Keppler, Rudolph
Kern, August

Kidd, Miss Georgette
Kimball, Mrs. Alfred R.

I09

 

Kimball, Miss Rosamund
King, Mrs. George E.
King, George R.

King, Mrs. Samuel T.
Kingsley, B. G.

Kirk, H. B.

Klein, C. T. -

Knapp, John M.

Knapp, Miss M. M.
Knoblauch, Charles
Knoblauch, Mrs. Jessie C.
Knowlton, Miss Ella
Knox, John Mason
Koachell, Miss Ella
Koch, J. Otto

Kohlman, Charles
Kordes, Henry E.
Korn, Max S.

L

Ladenburg, Mrs. Adolph

Laidlaw, James L.

Lambert, Richard

Lamke, John H.

LaMontagne, Mrs. Mau-
rice

Landon, Miss Ruth

Lane, Derick

Lane, Mrs. James W.

Langdon, Woodbury G.

Langstadter, A.

Lanman, Mrs. Jonathan T.

Lanman, Ludlow Thomas

Lapham, Mrs. John J.

Latchford, W. L.

Lattin, Homer A.

Lawrence, Cyrus J.

Lawrence, John L.

Lawrence, Mrs. John L.

Lawrence, Mrs. S.

Lawson, Mrs. Emma
Lee, Prof. B. F.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

IIO

Leeds, John G.
Leeds, Mrs. John G.
Leggett, Francis H.
Lehmaier, James M.
Lehman, Philip
Leopold, Mrs. James M.
LePiemme, Mme. Louise C.
Leslie, Miss Gertrude
Lester, Mrs. J. H.
Leuchs, Dr. John
Levey, Mrs. Elinor Mayer
Levy, Aaron
Levy, Bernard
Lewis, H. D.
Lewis, Isaac Newton
Lewis, Miss Marguerite
Liebmann, Charles
Lincoln, Mrs. Clara Towns-
end
Lindinger, Fritz
Lippmann, George
Liszka, Miss A. F.
Litt, Mrs. Jacob
Little, Joseph J.
Livingston, Miss Ann L.
Livingston, Mrs. R. E.
Lockman, John T.
Lockwood, William A.
Loeb, S.
Loewi, Edgar
Loewi, Mrs. Edgar
Loewi, Valentine
Loomis, Alfred L.
Lord, Miss Couper
Lord, Franklin B.
Lorenz, Mrs. Leo
Lorette, Miss Frances M.V.
Lorich, John
Losee, Charles E.
Low, Miss Nathalie F.
Lowell, Miss C. Russell
Lowther, Charles S.
Lozier, James D.’

Lucllow, Banyer

Ludwig, Bruno

Lukens, Miss Evangeline
Lukens, Mrs. Mary E. S.
Lusk, Miss Anna H.
Lusk, Mrs. W. H.

Lydig, Mrs. David
Lydig, Capt. Philip M.
Lyman, George T.
Lynch, Mrs. Jasper
Lyons, John P.

M

McAneny, George
McCaffrey, B.

McCall, John A.
McCarthy, T.

McCleery, Dr. Mary J.
McCormack, Bernard
McCurdy, Mrs. Richard A.
McDonald, J.

McEwen, Mrs. D. C.
McGahie, John

McGirr, E. F.

McGrath, Miss Jeanette P.
McKee, Thomas H.
McKendrick, Miss Claire F.
McKendrick, Mrs. J. S.
McKim, Mrs. R. A.
McMurtry,‘ Mrs. George G.
McLean, John S.
McNeille, George E.
McVickar, Edward
Mackay, Mrs. B.

Mackay, Mrs. D. Sage
Mackenzie, John
Mackenzie, Miss L.
Mackenzie, Miss M.
Mackenzie, William

Macy, Mrs. V. Everit
Magee, John J.

Mager, Mrs. F. Robert

 




 

Maisel, Dr. C.
Maitland, Mrs. Helen V. V.
Maitland, T. A.
Malcolm of Poltallock, Lady
Manigault, Mrs. Anne M.
Manney, Mrs. C. P.
Manson, Jr., Mrs. T. L.
Marks, Fred W.
Marks, Mrs. Nanette
Marlor, Mrs. H. S.
Marsh, Frank P.
Marshall, Mrs. E. C.
Martin, Anderson 0.
Martin, Miss Helen
Martin, Miss Irwin
Martin, Mrs. L. Trowbridge
Marvin, Charles D.
Marx, D.
Mason, Rev. A. DeWitt
Mason, Mrs. Thomas H.
Mastick, Mrs. Mary W.
Matson, Harry S.
Matthews, John H.
Matthias, Miss Louise
Mattmann, Mrs. C.
Maurer, Mrs. Henry A.
Maxwell, Miss Matilda
May, Moses
Mayer, David
Mayer, Siegfried W.
Mayhew, Mrs. R. F.
Maynard, Mrs. A.
Maynard, Miss Alice N.
Meagher, Mrs. T. F.
Melchers, Miss Marie J.
Mendham, Maurice B.
Mengis, Mrs. Margaret
Merchant, Miss Elizabeth
W.
Mergle, Anton
Merriman, Mrs. Henry
Meserole, A. V.
Metzger, Mrs. Abram

 

Meyer, Mrs. Emily
Milbank, Mrs. Albert G.
Miles, Miss Lulu

Millar, George W.
Miller, Alexander
Miller, Mrs. C. A.

Mills, Mrs. J. B.
Minck, Henry

Misch, A.

Mitchell, John A.

Moe, H. R.

Moﬁatt, Mrs. Cleveland
Moller, Edwin Clarence
Moller, Peter

Moller, Mrs. Peter
Moller, Miss S. Adelina
Monahan, Thomas
Monroe, Augustin
Monroe, Mrs. Elbert B.
Montant, A.
Montgomery, George L.
Moore, Albert Hanford
Moore, W. H. H.
Morgan, A. J.

Morgan, Miss Annie T.
Morgan, Miss Caroline L.
Morgan, E. D.

Morgan, George H.
Morgan, Wm. Fellowes
Morris, Fordham
Morris, John B.
Morrison, Mrs. Geo. Austin
Morse, George L.
Morten, Alexander
Morton, Hon. Levi P.
Mott, Miss Ruth S.
Mueller, Miss Anna F.
Muir, James
Mulholland, John E.
Munnich, Mrs. Arnold
Munroe, Mrs. Chester
Munson, C. W.
Munson, Mrs. C. W.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 
  
  
   
  
 
  
    
   
  
  
  
   
   
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Murphy, Miss Edna L.
Murray, Robert M.
Murray, Miss Sophia I.
Murtagh, Robert
Myers, Miss Lillie .
Myers, Miss Mary S.
Myers, Hon. Samuel R.
Mygrant, W. S.

N

N aething, Mrs. Charles ,F.
Namm, Adolph I.

Napier, Mrs. Zilla K.
Nathan, Miss Madge
Neal, Mrs. Martha A
Neil, Rev. Edward Wallace
N elden, Dr. Andrew Linn
Nelson, Mrs. Walter H-
Neustadt, Sigmund
Nevins, Miss Helen

N ewgreen, Miss Emily
Nichols, Erickson N.
Nicoll, Miss Annie
Nicoll, Mrs. Benjamin
Niebuhr, Mrs. Susan R.
Niles, Mrs. Philip

Noble, Mrs. Elizabeth F.
Noble, Rob’t H.

Nordt, Miss Emma
Norrie, Mrs. Gordon
North, Thomas M.
Nutty, Mrs. A. H.
Nutty, Miss Harriet

O

Obermeyer, Theodore
O’Brien, M.'].

Ogden, W. B.

Olcott, George "M.
Olsen, Miss Emma
Oothout, Mrs. William

 

Ormiston, Mrs. T. W.

Orr, John C.

Osborn, In, H. Fairﬁeld

Osborn, W. A.

O’Shaughnessy, Nelson J.
W .

Otterson, W. Curtis
Oudin, Mrs. Lucien

P
Page, Edward D.
Page, H. S.-
Paillord, Mrs. Marie
Palmer, F. H.
Palmer, Francis E.
Palmer, George Q.
Palmer, Mrs. George Q.
Palmer, . P.
Palmer, N. F.
Palmer, Mrs. N. F.
Parish, In, Henry'
Parker, Miss Mary D.
Parsons, Mrs. Edwin
Parsons, William H.
Patz, E. O.
Peacock, Miss Bertha C.
Pearce, Miss A. C.
Pearsall, Mrs. E. E.
Pell, Mrs. J. H.
Penfold, Miss Josephine
Pennell, Mrs. G. C.
Perkins, Benjamin
Perkins, Miss Ruth
Phelps, Mrs. Anson G.
Phillips, Wm. D. .
Phoenix, Lloyd
Pierre, Mrs. Poline
Pinkerton, Robert A.
Pirie, S. C.
Platt, Mrs. Thomas C.
Platt, Willard H.
Playle, Henry A.

  

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Rosenthal, Robert J.

Rosenwald, Sigmund

Ross, William B.

Rossbach, Jacob

Rossiter, Arthur W.

Rowland, J. H.

Rowland, Thomas Fitch

Rowland, Jr., Thomas Fitch

Rue, Clarkson

Runkel, Louis

Rupprecht, Mrs. F. K.

Russell, Alexander

Russell, Mrs. Charles H.

Russell, Henry H.

Russell, Mrs. James Town-
send

Rust, R.

Ryan, Joseph T.

S

St. John, Wm. M.
Salters, Mrs. Wm. T.
Sander, Leo-
Sanford, Mrs. Henry
Satterlee, Mrs. Herbert L.
Scarborough, Mrs. Florence
A.
Schaefer, Charles
Schafhauser, Mrs. J. F.
Scheffers, Miss Margareta
Schelling, Paul
Schick, Philipp
Schiffer, Miss Adelaide M.
Schleiermacher, Christian
Schley, Mrs. Wm. T.
Schloss, Alexander P.
Schmadeke, John F.
Schmid, Mrs. Anna
Schmidt, Mrs. John A.
Schmitt, Mrs. Joseph
Schnurmacher, Dr. J.
Scholer, Dr. Gustav

  

Scholle, Samuel
Schrader, Miss Emma
Schrader, George _
Schrader, Herman C.
Schultz, Carl H.

Schurz, Carl L.

Schurz, Miss Marianne
Schuyler, Miss Georgina
Schuyler, Miss Louisa L.
Schuyler, Philip
Schweikert, C.

Scoales, Mrs. H.

Scott, Miss Anita

Scott, Mrs. Winﬁeld
Seabury, George J.
Sears, Miss Cathryn
Seccomb, Miss Bertha H.
Seccomb, Mrs. E. A. '
Sedgwick, Robert
Segaller, Phil

Segelken, Miss Anna
Segree, Mrs. P.
Seligman, Isaac N.
Seligman, Mrs. Jesse
Seligman, Miss Madeline
Selvage, Mrs. Edwin
Semler, George

Seybel, D. E.

Sharpe, Mrs. Ernest
Sheldon Jr., Henry K.
Sheldon, Mrs. Henry K.
Sheldon, James

Sheldon, Mrs. James
Sheldon, James O.
Sheldon, William C.
Shepard, Dr. A. W.
Sherman, Mrs. Charles E.
Shethar, Mrs. Edwin Hall
Shipman, Nelson
Shriver, Mrs. Harry T.
Shults, John H.

Sickels, David B.
Sidenberg, G.

  

    
  
    
   
    
  
  
   
    
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
   
  

 




 

 

Siegman, Edward
Siegman, Richard
Silver, Mrs. Charles A.
Simons, Jr., Charles D.
Simonsen, Miss Jennie
Sinclair, John J.

Singer, Mortimer M.
Slade, Mrs. Wm. Gerry
Sloane, Henry T.

Small, Miss Blanche D.
Smart, Mrs. F. R.
Smith, Mrs. A. B.
Smith, Mrs. Andrew A.
Smith, A. W.

Smith, Mrs. A. W.
Smith, Mrs. Andrew H.
Smith, Mrs. Andrew W.
Smith, Miss Constance M.
Smith, George C.

Smith, Henry A.

Smith, J. Campbell
Smith, James Rufus
Smith, Joseph F.

Smith, Mrs. L. J.
Smith, Mrs. M. Adele
Smith, Mrs. T. A.
Smith, Thomas Bradley
Smith, William Alexander
Smith, Mrs. Wm. Alex.
Snow, E. G.

Snyder, James

Solinger, Moses
Solomon, Robert G.
Sooysmith, Charles
Specht, Henry F.
Spencer, F. G.

Spencer, Jr., Lorillard
Spencer, Mrs. Lorillard
Speyer, Mrs. James
Spring, Miss Anna R.
Spruck, Henry
Stafford. Mrs. W. F.
Stagg, Mrs. Charles T.

115

 

 

Standish, Myles
Stanley, Joseph
Stanton, John R.
Stanton, Mrs. John
Stanton, Miss Juliet C.
Staples, Ernest

Stary, Miss Josephine
Steele, Miss Eleanor H.
Stein, A. M.

Stein, Conrad
Stephens, William L.
Stern, Arthur

Stern, Benjamin
Stern, Meyer

Steurer, Miss Anna
Stewart, Hugh
Stewart, Thomas J.

Stewart, William Rhine-
lander

Stewart, Mrs. Wm. Rhine-
lander

Stickney, Mrs. Joseph
Stillman, Miss C. F.
Stillman, Mrs. E. P.
Stillman, Thomas E.
Stokes, Anson Phelps
Stokes, Miss Dorothy
Stokes, Mrs. Horace
Stone, Edwin

Storm, Miss Edna G.
Storm, Miss Mabel L.
Stover, Miss Harriet C.
Strauss, Albert
Strauss, Frederick
Strauss, Gustave
Strauss, N. F.

Strauss, Samuel
Streat, James

Street, Miss Anna L.
Street, Mrs. C. F.
Street, Mrs. M. K.
Sturges, Miss May F.
Sturmdorf, Dr. Arnold

_._.___..;:‘_..__... L...- 44-7.4: -

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

l
l l“
l

l
i“ ll
.‘ 1' Hi}

 

 

l .11




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Sturmdorf, Mrs. Arnold

Stuyvesant, Miss Anna W.

SulliVan, Mrs. Catharine A.

Sulzbacher, Oscar W.

Sutro, Lionel

Sutro, Richard

Sutton, Mrs. Gregory

Sutton, James F.

Suydam, Walter L.

Suydam, Mrs. Walter L.

Swahn, Master Alfred D.

Swahn, Mrs. Fanny Darri—
grand

Swahn, Geo. W.

Swayne, Alfred H.

Swinney, Mrs. E. B.

Swords, Miss P. Caroline

Sylvester, Lewis

Symington, Wm. H. Harris

T

Taber, Miss Mary

Tailer, William H.
Tanenbaum, Moses
Tappan, Herman

Tappin, Charles L.

Tatum, Mrs. J. C.

Taylor, Mrs. A. E. Scranton
Taylor, Gilbert P.

Taylor, Knox '

Taylor, Moses

Taylor, Mrs. Moses

Taylor, Thomas F.

Taylor, Mrs. ,Walter C.
Tesla, Nikola

Thomas, Frederic C.
Thomason, Frederic B.
Thompson, Edward W.
Thompson, Miss Rhoda
Thompson, Mrs. Robert M.
Thompson, Mrs. Samuel C.
Thorburn, Mrs. Louise

116

Thorn, G. R. Hallett
Thorne, Miss Phebe Anna
T horne, Mrs. T. W.

T horne, W. V. S.
Thouron,-Mrs. E. A.
Thunauer, Felix
Tiemann, Miss Edith W.
Tilford, Mrs. Charles E.
Tilford, Mrs. Frank
Tilford, Miss Julia
Timolat, James G.

Toby, Geo. P.

Toedteberg, Miss Emma
Townshend, John

Trevor, Miss Emily
Truog, Mrs. Randolph
Tucker, Mrs. R. S.
Tuckerman, Alfred
Tuckerman, Mrs. Alfred
Turnure, Mrs. George E.

U

Ubsdell, John A.
Uhl, Louis C.
Ullmann, E. S.
Ulrichs, Thomas
Ulrichs, F. William
Ulshoeffer, W. G.
Underhill, Eugene

V

Valentine, Mrs. A. C.

Valentine, George F.

V alentine, Miss M. E.

Valentine, R. B.

Van Beuren, Michael M.

Van Beuren, Mrs. Michael
M.

Van Buren, Mrs. H. M.

Van Clief, Wm. S.

Van Ingen, Miss Anne

 




 

 

Van Ingen, Mrs. E. H.

Van N ess, J. Newton

Van Nest, Mrs. Alex. T.
Van Orden, Miss Anna

Van Orden, Miss Mary L.
Van Tine, Mrs. J. H.

V a}? Volkenburgh, Miss S.

Van Winkle, Edgar B.
Vaughan, Wm. J.

Veith, Mrs. H. F.
Victor, Mrs. George F.
V ietor, Mrs. Theodore G.
V illard, Oswald Garrison
V ollkommer, Joseph

W

Wagner, Frederick C.
Wagner, Louis C.
Wainwright, Hon. J. May-
hew
Wainwright, Richard T.
Walker, E. Robbins
Walker, James
Wallace, John
Wallach, Leopold
W'alser, Dr. William C.
Wandell, Townsend
\Nard, Mrs. F. A. B.
W'ard, Jr., Mrs. John Seely
Warde, J. S.
VVasserman, Mrs. E.
Waters, V.S., Dr. E.
Watkins, Mrs. Alfred
Watkinson, Mrs. Louise V.
Watson, Mrs. James 0.
Watson, Thomas B.
Watson, Mrs. W. E.
\Veatherbee, Edwin H.
Weatherbee, Mrs. J.
W'eaver, Mrs. Albert

Weber, Joseph

Webster, Walter Coates
Weeks, T. W.

VVeil, Leopold

Weil, Lewis

Weinz, T. A. H.

VVelch, David

Wells, Miss Julia Chester
VVelz, John

Wendell, Mrs. Gordon
Wenman, James F.
Werner, Mrs. Henry
West, Stuart P.
Westcott, Miss Thalia
Westheimer, Mrs. Agnes B.
Wharton, Mrs. Edward R.
Wheeler, Schuyler Skaats
White, Horace

White, Mrs. Jno. J.
White, Miss May W.
White, S. V.

White, Thomas F.
'Whitehouse, George M.
\Nhiting, C. H.

\Vhiting, Miss Gertrude
Whiting, Miss Matilda M.
Whitney, Mrs. Thomas B.
Wibirt, Henry H.

VVicke, William

VVickett, S. G.

Wiener, Dr. Joseph
VVilcoxson, Miss E. R.
\Vilcoxson, Miss M. C.
Wiley, Samuel

Wilhelm, Mrs. Emily
Wilkins, Morris

Willard, Miss Mary L.
\Villcox, David

W'illets, Samuel

Williams, Mrs. E. P.
\Villiams, Mrs. H. K. S.
Williston, A. S.

Williston, 2d, C. L.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Williston, Mrs. C. L.
VVillson, Charles Hill
Wilson, Miss Elizabeth B.
Wilson, Mrs. Frank
Wilson, Gen. James Grant
Wilson, Miss Jane M.
Wilson, M. Orme
Wilson, Maris

Wilson, Washington
Winans, Miss Isabel T.
W'inans, Miss S. S.

W ineburgh, Abe
VVineburgh, Jesse

W'ing, L. Stuart

Wing, Mrs. L. Stuart
VVinnett, Mrs. T. H.
Winter, Mrs. Katharine

Winthrop, Miss Albertina T.

Winthrop, Mrs. Grenville

Winthrop, Master Grenville

W'inthrop, Miss Marie
Wisely, Edward

\IVitte, Charles G.
Witte, Mrs. Charles G.
Witte, William F.
Wolf, Mrs. John

  

Wolff, Lewis S.

Wood, Mrs. Henry Duncan

Wood, Mrs. James
Wood, Mrs. O. S.
\Noodend, Mrs. W. E.
W'oodruﬁ, G. E.
Woolverton, William H.
Wooster, Mrs. Emma C.
Wright, Miss E. J.
Wright, Miss Harrie-t
Wright, Mrs. J. Hood
VVyckoﬁ, Peter

\Vylie, Miss Stella M.
Wyman, Miss Esther

Y

Yeisley, Rev. George C.
Young, Dr. John J.

Z

Zabriskie, Mrs. John J.
Ziegler, Henry
Zimmerman, Mrs. J. E.
Zittel, Frederick

 
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
   

 




 

®bituat2 1Recoro

The Society mourns the loss of twenty-one members of

whose death it has been notiﬁed during the year 1904.,
viz. :

BARCLOW, MRS. KATE L.
CARROLL, B. W.
COLGATE, A. W.
COLGATE, JAMES B.
CUNNINGHAM, GEORGE.
DANA, RICHARD S.
DODGE, GEORGE E.
DRAKE, JOHN J.
DUSENBURY, C. COLES.
ELKINS, MISS IDA.
GRAY, HORACE.
HAMILTON, JOHN L.
HENDERSON, MRS. A. C.
HESSLEIN, S. A.

KELLY, MRS. EMILY WHITE.
MCALLISTER, MISS HARRIET.
MAXWELL, MISS A.
MERRITT, MRS. GEORGE.
SELIGMAN, MISS ALICE.
SHAW, MRS. FRANCIS G.
WHITNEY, WILLIAM C.

 

 

.71
:11

U“

W
H
,_
\

1

L-
llllgl‘gi
.

W
t
\

W11:
‘ \

p

\

Ni

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DONATIONS RECEIVED DURING THE

 

YEAR 1904.
A Bellmer, Mrs. C. H ....... 6
Berthele, J. G ............. I
Adams, Mrs. T. M ........ $10 00 Birn’s Express ............ 5
Agnew, Mrs. C. R. . . . . . 2 00 Blair, J. Insley ............ IO
Amend, Bernard G ....... 100 00 Bliss, Mrs. E. W .......... 5
Albro, Miss ............... 00 Bliss, Mrs. George T ...... 100
American Express Co ..... 100 00 Boettner, Mrs. H. C ....... 5
Anonymous, March I. . . 10 00 Bogart, William A ........ 6
Anonymous, May 31 ...... I oo Bogert, Edward C ........ 25
Anonymous, June 13 ..... .. I 00 BOmbace, N .............. I
Anonymous, June 17 ...... 18 Bradley, Mrs. W ......... 5
Anonymous, Nov. 29 ...... 50 Bramholdt, Mrs. Sophia. .. I
Anonymous, Dec. 28 ...... I 00 Bristol, John I. D ......... 5
Anonymous, Dec. 16. 250 00 Brown & Seccomb ........ 5
Anonymous, Oct. 5 ....... oo Buckner, Thomas A ...... 10
Anonymous, “Mrs. E. P. Bunce, John .............. 5
S.” .................... 25 00 Bush, S. M ............... 5
Anonymous, “H.” ......... 5 00 Butler, C. P .............. I
Anonymous, “M. L. R.”. .. 2 00 Butler, Mrs. Theron R. . . . IO
Anonymous, “N. G. J."'. .. . 1 00
Archbold, John D ........ 100 00 " C
Ashforth, Mrs. Freda ..... 5 00
AStOl‘, Mrs. J. J .......... 25 oo Cannen, Mrs. James E. . .. 5
Atkim, Mrs. F. A. E ...... 1 oo Capron, G. T ............. 2
Carll, Miss C. G .......... Io
Carpenter, Miss Agnes. .. . 5
B Carpenter, Mrs. John E. . . 15
Carpenter, Mrs. Miles B.. 5
“Baby Sidney, in memory Carpentier, Gen. HoraceW. 500
of Dash” ............... I 00 Carrington, the Misses. 3
Bacile, Charles S .......... I 00 Carter, Walter S ......... IO
Baker, Mrs. S. J .......... 5 00 Cary, Miss Ellen G ....... IOO
Banks, Mrs. U. s ......... 50 Cary, Mrs. W. F ......... 5
Bardwell, W. A ......... ,. 2 00 “Cash” .................. 50
Barker, Miss Isabel R ..... 5 00 “Cash” .................. 1
Barnes, E. F ............. 10 00 Castree, Miss Louise ...... IO
Barnwell, Morgan G ...... 5 oo Cathcart, Miss J. R ....... 4
Barron, George D ......... 5 00 Charles, E ................ 1
Bartlett, the Miss-es ....... 3 00 Chatry, Mrs. Raymond J.. 2
Bedell, Mrs ............... 1 oo Chauncey, Miss Florence
Bell, Mrs. A .............. 5 00 Isabel .................. 5
Bellmer, C. H ............ .. 6 00 Chisholm, Mrs. William E. 50

       
     
  

88888888888888

88 888888888888888‘38

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Herrschaft, L ............. 1 oo
Hile, Miss Annie ......... I 00
Hoe, Mrs. Richard March. 30 oo
Holbrook, Miss Lilian ..... 50 oo
Holden, Miss Florence E. . I 00
Holland, Mrs. Helen M. . . 3 00
Holls, Mrs. F - W ......... 5 00
Holmes, Mrs. C. N ........ ., I 00
Hoppin, Miss Clara T ..... 5 00
Hoppin, William Warner. . 10 oo
Hornthal, L. M ........... 5 00
Horton, Charles D ........ 10 oo
Howitt, Gerald ............ 5 oo
Hupnagel, J. B ........... I oo
Hyatt, Mrs ............... I 00
I
Ide, . E ................. 5 00
“I. ..D ” ................ 100 00
“In Memory of Jerry”. I oo
Iselin, Adrian ............. 100 00
J
Jackson, M. D., V. H ..... 5 00
Jarves, Miss Florence ..... 10 oo
Jaquins, Mrs. Edward... . I 25
Jesup, Morris K .......... 5o 00
Johnson, Jr., Robert ...... 5 00
Johnson, D. V. S., S. K. . . . 350 00
Jones, A. H .............. 5 00
Jones, Holmes ............ I0 00
“Mrs. J. W. S.” ........... 121 00
Junior C. E. Society of the
i r s t Congregational
Church ................ 3 00
K
Kane, Miss Sybil Kent” 5 00
Keeney, Mrs. ........ 2o 00
Kerker, G. A ............. 5 00
Kiernan, John ............ 6 00
King, Mrs. Edward ....... IO 00
King, Miss Ellen ......... 14 oo
Kingsley, Dr. 0. D ........ 2 oo
Kipling, Miss Adeline M. 2 50
Koster & Weber .......... 5 00
L

Langdon, Woodbury G. 5 00
ansing, Mrs. A. B ...... 5 00
Lanx, Mrs. Kate ......... 5 00

129

  

Leﬁerts, Miss Mary C. 405 00
Lehman, Philip ........... 5 00
Lester, Miss Fanny A ..... 5 00
Lester, Miss Mary E ...... 5 00
Lewis, Mrs ............... I 00
Lewis, H. D .............. 10 00
Lewis, Mrs. Harry Dickin-

son .................... 25 00
Lewis, Miss Mabel A ..... 5 00
Liebmann’s Sons Brewing

Co., S .................. 5 00
Lindsay, Mrs. Clara E ..... I oo
Lindsley, Miss Emily V. . . 5 oo
Livingston, Miss Ann L. . . 45 00
Lockwood, J T ........... 3 00
Losee & Co., Frederick. . . . 5 oo
Ludowieg, Mrs. J. G ...... I oo
Lydig, Mr. and Mrs. David 15 00
Lyman, Samuel H ........ 5 00
Lyon, 5. B ............... I 00
Lyon, Mrs. S. B .......... 5 00
Lyon, Stephen D .......... 12 00

M

Mackay, Archibald K ..... IO 00
Malcolm of Poltallock, Lady 20 00
“Maud Ursula.” ........... 1 oo
McBurney, Charles I ..... IO 00
McCarthy & Son, P ....... 7 85
McCullough, James M. .. . 2 oo-
McGuire, James C ........ 5 oo
McMurtry, Mrs. George C.. 10 00
“M. C. L.” ............... 5 oo
Mead, George A .......... 2 oo
Mead, Hiram E .......... 2 oo
Meeker, Mrs. Mary E.. .579 52
Merritt, Mrs. Julia ........ 100 00
Meyer, Mrs. H. Von L.. 5 oo
Milbank, Joseph .......... 100 00
Milbank, Mrs. Joseph ..... 50 00
Miller, Elinor H .......... 5 00
M 1 1 l e r , Mrs. Elizabeth

Smith ................. 5 00
Milne, Miss Jessie B ...... 5 00
“.M M.’ .................. 5 oo
Moger, Henry M ......... 2 00
Montgomery, B. R ........ I 00
Moore, Rev. R. B ......... 5 00
Moore, William H. H ..... 5 00
Morgan, Miss Caroline L.. 20 00
Morgan, Mrs. J. B ........ 5 00
Morgernstern, Joseph . .. . 5 oo
Morton, Edwin W ....... 5 oo

  

   
  
   
    
     

 




 

 

 

123

Muldoon, William ........ 25 00
Murray, Mrs. James T. .. . 25 00
N
Neale, F. C .............. I 00
Nesbit, Miss J. L ......... 3 00
Newton, A. J ............. 500
New York World ........ 196 50
Nichols, Mrs. Mary B ..... 5 00
Nicoll, Mrs. Benjamin ..... 5 00

Nightingale, Miss Florence
N. ..................... 2 oo
Nolan, Miss Delia ........ 2 00
Noll, Mrs ................ I 00
Nowill, F. H ............. 25 00
0
Opdycke, Mrs. Emerson. . . 5 00
Opdycke, L E ............ 5 00
Orr, Mrs. . .......... I oo
Otis, Charles R ........... IO 00
P
Parsons, Mrs. Edwin ..... 5 00
Patterson, Mrs. E. L ...... Io 00
Peacock, Miss Bertha C... 5 00
Penfold, Miss Josephine. . . 20 00
Perkins, Miss Ruth ....... 45 00
Phelps, Mrs. Anson G ..... 5 00
Pirone, N ................ I 00
Planten, J. R ............. IO 00
Platt, Benoni ............. I2 00
Platt, L. C ............... 5 00
Platt, W. P .............. 15 00
Pomroy, Mrs. H. K ....... 20 00
Poole, C H .............. 4 00
Popham, J. Lenox ........ 5 00
Powel, R. J. Hare, “in
memory of ‘Skip’.” .. 5 00
Pratt, Miss Marion ....... I oo
Prigge, J. C. L ........... 5 00
Prince, Jr., Edmund, A. .. . 50
Pryer, Miss A. C .......... 5 00
R
Rathbone, Mrs. Albert. . .. I5 00
Raymond, Mrs. H. J ...... 2 oo
Redmond, G. H ........... 25 00

Remer, Miss Helen A ..... I 00
Reynolds & Sons, Charles

H ..................... 5 oo
Rhinelander, Miss S ...... 100 00
Ring, Miss M. L ......... 25 00
Robb, Mrs. Alexander. . . . 5 00
Robbins, Mrs. Milton ..... 100 00
Robbins, Mrs. Milton ..... 305 00
Roberts, Miss Clara ....... 5 00
Roberts, Miss Louise ..... I 00
Robinson, Mrs. Frances A. 5 00
Robinson, Rev. J. H ...... Io 00
Rogers, Mrs. M. S ........ IO 00
Rohweeler, John .......... 2 00

S
Sabine, Miss Julie M., “1n
memory of G. Sabine

Haines.” ............... Io 00
St. John, Miss Leah ....... 5 00
Schaefer Brewing Co., F &

M. .................... 15 oo
Schermerhorn, H. A ...... I 00
Scholle, Samuel .......... 15 00
Schramm, William ........ 5 00
Scott, Miss Nora ......... IO 00
Scott, S ................... 2 oo
Seccomb, Mrs. E». A. . . . 5 00
See, G. W ............... I 00
Seligman, Miss A ......... 5 00
Seligman, Mrs. Jesse ..... 5 00
Seligman, Miss Madeline. . IO 00
Sherman, Mrs. Charles E. . IO 00
Skeel, Jr, Roswell” 5 00
Sloane, Mrs. John ........ 5 00
Smith, William Alexander. IO 00
Smith & Roerner .......... 3 00
Sneden, James F .......... 2 00
Sniffen, M ................ 6 00
Sonberg, August .......... 2 50
Spafford, Miss Emily ..... 5 op
Squire, E. H. P .......... 5 00
Stafford, Mrs. W. F ...... IO 00
Standish, Mrs. Myles” Io 00
Stanton, Miss Juliet C. . . . 5 00
Starbuck, Miss Ellen ...... 5 00
Stetson, Francis Lynde. . . 25 00
Stevens, Miss Ida E. .. 2 00
Stevenson, J ........... 5 00
Stewart, H. P ............ 5 00
Stone, Jr., Mrs. C. F ...... I 00
Storms, Mrs .............. 5 00
Strycker, C ............... 50

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Stuart, Mrs. Laura E., Hon-

orable Secretary ........ 4 85
Stutz & Sons, Louis ...... Io 00
Sweeny, John R .......... 2 00

T

Talmage, Mrs. T. H ...... 5 00
Taylor, Mrs. Horace ...... 50
Taylor, Rev. Matthew. . . . . IO 00,
Thayer, Mrs. Maurice ..... I 00
Thiele, E ................. 5 00
Thomas, Mrs. Ludlow ..... 5 00
Thompson, Mrs ........... 25
Thorne, Miss Phebe Ann. . 5 00
Thorne, W. V. S .......... 5 00
Tiedj en, Mrs. Paul ........

3 00

Tiemann, Miss Edith W. . . 12 00

Titus, Mrs. A. L o 00
Topham, Miss A. E., in
memory ”Poppy, ‘Beauty’

and ‘Little Ned’ ” . . 7 00

Trowbridge, Miss J. A. 5 00

U
Ullman, Joseph ...... , ..... IO 00
Ulshaeffer, W. G .......... 5 00
Underwood, Frederick G. 5 00
U. S. Bung Mfg. Co ....... 5 00
V
Valentine, Mrs. A. C ...... 5 00
Van Ingen, Mrs. E. H ..... 5 00
Van Wyck, Frederick ..... I 00
Von Post, H. C ........... 20 00

-.Winans, Miss M. Antoinette

   
 
  
      

  

W

Wagner, Mrs. Herbert A. .
Walker, Miss Florence. ..
Wallace, William H .......
Warburg, F. A ...........
Ward, Artemus ...........
Watson, J. Henry ........
Watson, Mrs. W. E .......
Weber, W ................
Weir, Mrs. W ............
Weld, Mrs. Edward M. . . .
Wells, Miss Julia Chester. .
White, J r., John J ........
White, Mrs. K. G ........
White, M. P ........
Whitehead, C. G ..........
Wild, Frank G ...........
Wilkins, Miss M. Louise. .
Williams, Mrs. I. T .......
Williamson, Mrs. D. D. ..
Winans, Miss Isabel T ......

01
0 1-1 001010!

1—1

HHN

8888888888888888888888888888888

N
011-4140001010

N

NU‘U‘UIU! N

Wing, Miss ...............
Winship, L. A ............
Wolﬁ, Lewis S ...........
Women’s Protective League
Wood, A. Trenchard ......
Wood, Mrs. O. S .........
Woolverton, M. BC ........
Worthen, G. SB
Wright, F. O .............
Wright, Miss Harriet .....

Y

Young, Mrs. R ...........
Young & Bro., R ..........

01
would:

H

OHUINO

H

88

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

CENTURY FUND.

 

m
N
N
A
m
$
E
T
A
N
O
D
H..D
N
U
F
Y
R
U
T
N
E
C
E
H
T
O
T
S
R
E
m
R

_ C
S
B
U
S

ALLY TOWARDS DEFRAYING THE GENERAL EXPENSES OF
THE SOCIETY, AND MAY DISCONTINUE THEIR SUBSCRIP-

TIONS AT ANY TIME.

 

American Express Co.
Archbold, John D.
Haines, John P.

Amend, Bernard G.
Eno, William P.

 

Hyde, Mrs. W. Truslow.

Rhinelander, Miss S.

 

Robbins, Mrs. Milton.




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

STATISTICS FOR YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31, 1904.

The following summary will be found interesting as showing the work accomplished during the year 1904 by kin-
dred societies throughout the United States and Canada. Because ﬁgures are omitted, it does not follow that no work
was accomplished. In many instances reports were not received, and in others the ﬁgures were not available or no
records were kept.

 

LOCATION. NAME OF SOCIETY.

1110.1; papuadsns Alum

palqesgp ‘slemtu'e 93er
:10qu

-nquIe u; swans mm;
paAouIaJ sIeuIIue 93.1121

'paﬁonsap £1
-aueumq ‘AJaAooaI Ised

'saoue[
‘KlaAooaI ised panest

paionsap Ktauemnq

'paiespsaAuI

 

pun paataoax singeldmog

 

Iaqio pu'e sasmq palqesyq
.Io ssapuxoq ‘sleuxgue news
.Iaqio pue ‘samtu ‘sason

 

 

-odw91 stemgue pafqesgq
sq; u; pamoasoxd saseg

 

 

 

ALABAMA.
Mobile ..... . ....... Mobile S. P. C. A ................ . ..........
Birmingham ........ Birmingham Humane Society* ...... . . . . . . . . . . . .

ARIZONA.
Tucson S. P. C. A. of Tucson. .................... ..

ARKANSAS.
Little Rock . . . . . . . . Humane Society of Little Rock, Ark.* ........ . . .

CALIFORNIA.
San Francisco ...... . The San Francisco S. P. C. A.* ............... . .
Los Angeles . .. .. .. . The Los Angeles S. P. C. A.* ...................
San José ......... . . Santa Clara County S. P. C. A.. ................
San Diego .. .. San Diego Humane Society .....................
Sacramento The Sacramento County Humane Society*..... .

Oakland Oakland S. P. C. A.* ........................

L010
H

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

CALINRNm—Con
Redlands
Santa Barbara .....
Santa Cruz ..... . . .
Fresno
Sausalito

COLORADO.
Denver
Colorado Springs ..

CONNECTICUT.
Hartford
New Haven .......
Meriden

DELAWARE.
Wilmington ........

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Washington ........

FLORIDA.

St. Augustine ......
Jacksonville .......
Pensacola ..........
Tampa
GEORGIA.

..........

000000000000

0000000000

ooooooooooo

ccccccccccc

Atlanta
Brunswick .........
ILLINOIS.

Chicago

Rockford
Quincy
Shelbyxiille ........
Champaign

oooooooooooo

S. P. C. A. of San Bernardino County, Cal. .. .. .
Santa Barbara Humane Society* ............. .. .
Santa Cruz County Humane Society.
Fresno S. P. C. A ..............................
Marin County S. P. C. A ......................

.00....

Colorado Humane Society .....................
El Paso Co. Branch Colorado Humane Society*. .

Connecticut Humane Society ...................
The New Haven S. P. C. A .....................
Meriden Humane Society .......................

Delaware S. P. C. A ............................
The Washington Humane SocietyT ..............

St. Augustine Humane Society ..................
The Jacksonville S. P. C. A ....................
Humane Society ..............................
Hillsborough County S. P. C. A.* ...............

Georgia S. P. C. A.*... .. .......................
Atlanta. Humane Society .......................
Brunswrck Humane Society .....................

The Illinois Humane Society* ...................
Winnebago Co. Branch Illinois Humane Society*
The Quincy Humane Society ....................

I44

 

The Shelby

Co. Br. of the Illinois Humane Soc.

Champaign Branch Illinois Humane Society .....

 

\OI\N\o .
H .
(Ont-1 N

o
H o
.

”ii "83

70 850

13 II

12 66
I75
187 4385

2 I8

26 325

 

 

75I

21

23

63

256

120

 

497 50

231

231

 

 

305
4103

217

85

2952
I765

 

* Fiscal year.

1' Children and animals.

127

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ILLINOIs.——C0ntinued.

Springﬁeld . . .
Jerseyville . . .

Harvard

Danville . . . ..

Whitehall . . . .
Joliet

INDIANA.

Indianapolis
Evansville . .. . .
Fort Wayne . ..

South Bend . .
Terre Haute .
Muncie ......

Richmond . . . .
Peru
Kokomo .....
New Albany

IOWA. _
Des Momes .
Sioux City

KANSAS. .
Wichita ......
Topeka ......

KENTUCKY.
Louisville ,.
Frankfort . .. .

Covington . .. ..

. Lexington . .

000....

.90..

0..-

tall.

oooooo

 

The Humane Society of Springﬁeld .............
The Jerseyville Humane S. P. C. A. & C ........
Harvard Branch of The Illinois Humane Society
United States Humane Society .................
Whitehall Humane Society .....................
Joliet Humane Society. . . . . . . . ..................

The Indiana Humane Society ...................
The Evansville Humane S. P. C. W., C. & A. . . .
Fort Wayne Humane Society .................. .
The South Bend Humane Society ...............
Terre Haute Humane Society ...................
Muncie Humane Society ......................
Elkhart Humane Society ....................... .
Wayne County Humane Society ................
The Humane Society of Peru, Ind ...............
Kokomo Humane Society..... ...... . ..........
Floyd County Humane Society ..................

The Iowa Humane Society ............. . ...... .
The Sioux City Humane Society ........

The Kansas City Humane Society ..............
The Foster Humane Society ............... . . . ..

Kentucky Humane S. P. C.* .........
Franklin County Humane Society..... .....
Kenton County Humane Society ...........
Lexington and Fayette County H. S.

0‘...

 

36

ii

27

'ié
23

 

53
12

424
'i4
47

vow-4c»-

 

ii

45

12

18

 

42

'iié

 

 

1138
15
12

30

4936

0..

. 127

533

 

128

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

MISSOURI.
St. Louis
St. Louis
Kansas City
St. Joseph
Sedalia
MONTANA.
Butte
NEBRASKA.
Omaha
South Omaha
NEW HAMPSHIRE.
Portsmouth . ..
Keene
NEW JERSEY.
Newark
Jersey City . ..... . ..
Cape May
Vineland
Morristown
Camden
Hackensack
Elizabeth ..... . . . . .
Perth Amboy
Cranford
Paterson
Somerville
Princeton
Lakewood
Ridgewood
Passaic
Newark
Atlantic City
Asbury Park
Woodbury

.OIOIOOOOO.‘

0.0...

0......

 

Humane Society of Missouri*. . . . ..... . . . . . . . . . .
Woman’s Humane Society of Missouri. . . . . . . . . .
The Humane Society of Kansas City. . . . . . . . . . . .
The Humane Society of St. Joseph*. . ..... . . . . .
The Humane Society of Sedalia, Missouri. .. . . . .

Montana State Humane Society. .. . . . . . . . . . . . .

Nebraska Humane Society......................
South Omaha Humane Society. . . . . . .

New Hampshire Humane S. P. C. A.. . . .. .. .. . . .
The Keene Humane Society* ............. . . . . . . .

The NewJersey S. P. C.A ...............
The Hudson County District S. P. C. A ...... . .. .
Cape May, N. J., District S. P. C. A ........... .
The Vineland S. P. C. A. . .................... . .
Morris County Branch New Jersey S. P. C. A. . .
The Camden S. P. C.A ....... . .........
The Bergen County S. P. C. A .....
The S. P. C. A. of Union County, N. J.*. .

Perth Amboy S. P. C. A. . .................. . . .
Cranford, N. J., Br. of The N. J. . P. C. A. .. ..
Passaic County District S. P. C. A. . . . . . . . . . . . .
Somerset County S. P. C. A
Princeton S P. C. A
Ocean County District S. P. C. A. . . .. . . . . . . . . .
Ridgewood S. P. C. A*
Passaic City District S. P. C. A. .. .. . . .. .. .. . .
Humane Association of New J ersey*. .. ..... . . . .
Atlantic City S. P. C. A................
Asbury Park S. P. C. A
Gloucester County District S. P. C. A. .

00......

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

NEW YORK.
New York .........
Ossining ...........
Rochester ..........
Buffalo ............
Poughkeepsie ......
Newburg ...........
Oswego ............
Fulton .............
Syracuse ...........
Nyack .............
Elmira .............
Binghamton ........
Kingston - ...........
Watertown .........
Albany .............
Lockport . . . ........
Cortland ...........
Rome ..............
Auburn ............
Geneva ............
Seneca Falls .......
Batavia ............
Chatham ...........
Amsterdam ........
Gloversville ........
Catskill ............

NORTH CAROLINA.
Asheville ...........
Wilmington .. . .. . ..

OHIO.
Cincinnati .. .
Cleveland ..........

 

The American S. P. C. Arl' ................. ..
Ossining Br. and The American S. P. C. A. *... .
The Humane Soc. of Rochester, N. Y. P. C. A..

The Erie CountyS. P. C. A.* .............
The Poughkeepsie S. P. C. A... .............. .
The Newburg S. P. C. A ......................
S P. C. A. of Oswego City, N Y.
S. P. C. A of Village of Fulton, N Y. .. .. .......
The Central New York S. P. C. A ......... .. .. .
The Rockland County 5. P. C. A ..............
The Elmira S. P. C. A.* ........................
Broome County S. P. C. A.* ............... .. . ..
The Ulster County S. P. C. A ..................
Jefferson County S. P. C. A.* ...................
Mohawk and Hudson River Humane Societyi

The Niagara County S. P. C. A ................
The Cortland County S. P. C. A ................
The Stevens S. P. C. A. of Rome, N. Y .........
The Cayuga County S. P. C. A. * ................
Ontario County S. P. C. A..
Seneca County S. P. C. A ......................
Genesee County S. P. C. A .....................
Columbia County S. P. C. A ....................
Montgomery County Branch A. S. P. C. A ......
Fulton County Branch A. S. P. C. A ............
Greene County Branch A. S. P. C. A ............

The North Carolina S. P. C. A.* ................
North Carolina S. P. C. C. & A .................

oooooooooooooooooo

The Ohio Humane Society ......................
Cleveland Humane Society ......................

I

753

52

35

l

l
l

4
2

2

113::

 

{2'23

36

2I

.mHkﬁ' -

 

 

 

25
IO

18

43

 

4287

115

20

 

 

 

 

 

81865
4%%é
5585

20

'546

' '68

N

comeoo .
IH 00.

"éé °%6%

 

710 41055
1199

27

242

 

354}
15

23
54

 

 

15‘

 

*Fiscal year.

TIncludes work of its own agents throughout the State.

iYear 1903. latest published report.

131

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OHIo.———C0ntinued. , .
Canton............. The Canton Humane Soc1ety................... .
Columbus .. .. . Humane Society of City of Columbus, Ohio*. 262 550 498 I049 52 2734
Toledo Toledo Humane Society*......... ...... 7 36 110 1482
Warren The Trumbull County Humane Society.......... 4 3o 4 35
Dayton Montgomery County Humane Society*......... 17 I52 10 18 304
Athens............. Athens S. P. C. A ,,
Sandusky . . .. The Erie County Humane Society. .. ........... . 8 . 7 6o 340
Portsmouth Scioto County Humane Society.................
Ashtabula Ashtabula County Humane Society.............
Chagrin Falls . . The Chagrin Falls Humane S. P. C. C. & A. . ..
Pomeroy........... Pomeroy Branch Humane Society...............
Youngstown The Youngstown Humane Society..... .. .. ..
Yellow Springs . .. . Yellow Springs Humane Society... ..
Tiﬁin Seneca County Humane Society.... ........
Chardon The Chardon Humane Society... ........
Norwalk Huron County Humane Society*............... 14 20 .. ..
New Lexington Humane Society of New Lexington............. 2 I 6
Lima Lima Branch of Ohio Humane Society..........
Piqua Miami County Humane Society.................

I
I
a
O
o

132

0... all. I... tool a... 000.

C... I... Q... I... a... a...

OREGON.
Portland The Oregon Humane Society................... 20 180[ 80 3o Isl 500.

PENNSYLVANIA.
Philadelphia . .. .. .. The Pennsylvania S. P. C. A.*. .. .. .. .. 334 2295 I74 . 180 19312
Philadelphia .. Women’s Pennsylvania 5. P. C. A......... 373 646 184 5932 87 995
Lancaster Lancaster 8. P. C. A 2 230 10 15 1323
York TheYorkCountyS. P. C. A
Pittsburg Western Pennsylvania Humane Society*........ 259 811 105 149 189 1159
West. Chester .. .. Chester Co. Aux’y Women’s Br. Pa. S. P. C. A.
Reading Berks County S. P. C. A
W1111amsport....... Lycoming County S. P. C. A
Scranton .. Lackawanna Br. of Pennsylvania S. P. C. A.*. . .. 8 24 42 275

O... O... I... O... I... O...

I... 0... cool I... I... out.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

PENNSYLVANIA.——C’d.
Erie . . . . ........ . . .
Wilkesbarre . . . . . . . .
Altoona

RHODE ISLAND.
Providence ..... . . ..

SOUTH CAROLINA.
Charleston ..... .. . .
Columbia ......... .
Greenville .. ........
Spartanburg ..... . . .

TENNESSEE.

Memphis
Chattanooga .......
Knoxville
Nashville . ..
Jackson

TEXAS.

Waco . . . ...........
Austin . . . ..........
El Paso . . ..........

UTAH.

Salt Lake City . . . ..

VERMONT.

Springﬁeld .........
Brattleborough .....
Rutland . . ....... . . .
Burlington ..
Chester
Randolph . . . . ......
Manchester ........
St. Albans .....

 

Northwestern Pennsylvania Humane Society...
Luzerne Co. Humane Assoc’n P. C. C. & A ......
The Central Pennsylvania Humane Society. .. .. .

Rhode Island S. P. C. A*

The South Carolina S. P. C. A.
Richland County, South Carolina, S. P. C. A.
Greenville Branch of So. Carolina S. P. C. A
The Spartanburg S. P. C. A ..... .

Tennessee S. P. C. A.&C ....... .....
Chattanooga Humane Society ....... . . .. . . . . . . . .
Knox County Humane Society .......... . . . . . . . .
Nashville Humane Society ..................... .
Madison County Humane Society. . . .. . . . . . . . . . .

The Texas Humane Society. . . .. . ........... . . ..
Austin Humane S. P. C. A ....... . ....... . . . . . . .
E1PasoS.P.C.A ..... ....... .. ......

Utah Humane Society..........................

Vermont Humane Society .......... . ..... .
The Brattleborough S P. C. A ........... . . . . . . .
Society P. C. A0 .......................... . .. .
Burlington Humane Society ......... . . . . . . .. .. .
Chester Humane Society” ........ . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Randolph Humane Society”
Manchester S. P. C. A ....................... 1. ..
St. Albans Humane Society ............ . . ...... .

 

 

16

I62

v-VH

23

3O

25
24

 

 

 

 

27
103
24

107

27

II

45

I40
I7

I...

 

 

 

 

 

 

C...

 

* Fiscal year.

 

I33

 

 

1
l
l
I.
l
l;
1
i.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

.VIRGINIA.
Richmond . ..
Norfolk
Portsmouth . .. .. .. .
Lynchburg
Roanoke
Marion

WASHINGTON.
Tacoma
Seattle

WEST VIRGINIA.
Wheeling

WISCONSIN.
Milwaukee . . . . . . . .

BRITISH No. AMERICA.
Halifax ..
Hamilton
Kingston
Montreal
Ottawa ..
Quebec
St. John, N. B.. .
Toronto
Fredericton . . . . .
Moncton
Winnipeg
St. John’s, N’.ﬂd
Sherbrooke . . . .. .. . .
Victoria

Outtcoootoﬁl

 

Richmond S. P. C. A.
Norfolk S. P. C. A
Woman’s Humane Society of Virginia. .. .. ..
The Lynchburg Humane Society. .. .. .. .
Roanoke S. P. C. A
Marion S. P. CA

Tacoma S. P. C. A
Seattle Humane Society.....................

West Virginia Humane Society*.

Wisconsin Humane Society*.

The Nova Scotia S. P. C... .. .. ..
Hamilton S. P. C. A...
Kingston Humane Society. .. . ..
The Canadian S. P. C. A... .. .
Ottawa Humane Society. ..
Quebec S. P. C. A. . ...... .
New Brunswick S. P. C. A...
Toronto Humane Society.
Fredericton S. P. C. A. . . . . . .
Moncton S. P. C. A..........
Winnipeg S. P. C. A........ .
St. John’s S. P. C. A..........
Sherbrooke S. P. C. A. . .
Victoria Branch, British Col. S. P.

 

* Fiscal year.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

HISTORY.

 

Prior to the enactment of the statute entitled “An Act to
Prevent the Cruel and Improper Treatment of Cattle,” intro—
duced in England in July, 1822, by the late highly esteemed
Mr. Martin, the general treatment of animals in all countries
of the world was inhuman.

*“Whether from ignorance, thoughtlessness, heedlessness,
or wanton brutality, animals were subjected to extreme pain
and torture, and their condition failed to excite the commiser—
ation of the public. The best classes of society contained a few
persons only who openly protested against this cruelty, while
the majority were engaged in divers pastimes that caused much
animal suffering, and regarded with scorn and indignation
any appeal made to them in favor of the brutes. Naturally, the
lower and lowest orders were therefore more or less insensible
to the claims of lower animals; taking cue as well as example
from their betters, they also indulged in cruel sports and main—
tained a right in man to behave toward dumb domestic de—
pendents as he pleased. In fact, the protests of humane people
were silence-d by ridicule which came from the platform, the
pulpit, and the senate, as well as from the galled pens of sat-
irists.

“No better instance can be quoted of the prevailing indiffer-
ence of men in even the highest social position to the feelings
of animals than the mocking treatment of the Peers when
Lord Erskine stood up in the House of Lords, in the early

 

*From the 74th Annual Report of the Royal Society, London.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

136

part of the present century (1811), to ask for justice to the
lower creatures of God. Insensible alike to his moderate de—
mands and appeals for compassion and mercy to all defenceless
animals that man had pressed into his service, the chamber
broke out into open derision when he argued in favor of their
rights to humane treatment. It is said that loud jeers, vulgar
ejaculations, indecorous demeanor, and even whistling and
cock-crowing were practically the only reply given to the grand
speech of this high-souled man. No wonder, therefore, that
the man in the street ridiculed also, and that callous coachmen
and other persons vented their unrestrained passions on animals
without let or hindrance. The public records of eighty years
ago certainly do show that the friends of the brutes were few,
and their foes many and cruel.

“The most reckless and savage punishment, and the most
disgusting disregard to the bodily sufferings of animals, were
exhibited unconcealed in the highways and streets daily; fester—
ing sores, discharging wounds, excruciating lameness, and tot-
tering inﬁrmity called not forth modern devices to evade public
reprobation, and without disguise the lash and goad worked
their bloody inﬂictions. The uncombined efforts of a few
benevolent individuals were no check to these evils; and hence
it became necessary to establish a society which should unite
the friends of dumb animal creatures.

“The founders of this Society met on the 16th of June, 1824,
and inaugurated the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals, appointed a committee, and conceived the following
plan of operations:

I. The circulation of suitable tracts gratuitously, or by cheap sale,
particularly among persons intrusted with cattle, such as coach-
men, carters, and drovers.

2. The introduction into schools of books calculated to impress on
youth the duty of humanity to inferior animals.

3. Frequent appeals to the public through the press, awakening more
general attention to a subject so interesting, though too much
neglected.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

138

its origin. The history of the Society, therefore, is practically
an account of the inception and development of the work of
animal protection in America.

In 1862 Mr. Bergh was appointed Secretary of Legation at
St Petersburg. While in Russia he found himself on several
occasions constrained to interfere in cases of atrocious cruelty,
and but for his ofﬁcial position he would have been exposed to
personal violence. His attention was thus directed to the sub-
ject of humanity to the brute creation, and while in London
on his way home in 1865, he made the acquaintance of John
Colam, Esq., Secretary of the Royal Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals, who gave him much valuable informa-
tion concerning the operations of that Society in England.
On Mr. Bergh’s arrival at home, he found that no similar
society Existed in this country, and he immediately devoted
himself to the establishment of a society for the United States.
At the outset the proposition met with little encouragement,
and, without the assistance of the press, it might probably have
failed. On February 8, 1866, Mr. Bergh delivered a lecture in
Clinton Hall, in which he pleaded his cause with such force of
argument and such warmth of eloquent conviction, that ex-
pressions of sympathy and offers of assistance were free-1y
made by persons in attendance. The press then lent itsspow-
erful aid; the lecture was published in whole or in part in all
the great cities of the country; public sentiment in favor of
Mr. Bergh’s movement was quickly aroused, and on April 10,
1866, “The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals” was incorporated by the Legislature of the State
of New York. Among the original charter members of the
Society were many of the most eminent citizens of the City
and State of New York.

On the 19th of April, in the same year, Mr. Bergh secured
the passage by the Legislature of New York of the ﬁrst law
ever enacted in this-country for the protection of animals. It
provided that “every person who shall, by his act or neglect,
maliciously kill, maim, wound, injure, torture, or cruelly beat

 

 




 

 

139

any horse, mule, cow, cattle, sheep, or other animal, belonging
to himself or another, shall, upon conviction, be adjudged guilty
of a misdemeanor.”

On the 22d of April a meeting was held in Clinton Hall for
the purpose of effecting a permanent organization, and at that
meeting the ﬁrst society for the protection of animals in this
country came into active existence. The purpose of the as-
sociation, as set forth in its constitution, was “to provide ef-
fective means for the prevention of cruelty to animals through-
out the United States, to enforce all laws which then were or
might hereafter be enacted for the protection of animals, and
to secure, by lawful means, the arrest and conviction of all
persons found violating such laws.” As a matter of fact, the
only law of that kind then to be found on the statute books of
the States of the Union was that which had been passed by
the Legislature of New York nine days after the incorporation
of the Society. Within twelve months, however, another “act
for the more effectual prevention of cruelty to animals” was
passed by the Legislature of the same State; and from time to
time additions have been made to it, so that there is now
hardly a phase of cruelty which the Society has not the legal
power to prevent within the boundaries of the State of New
York. The legal deﬁnition of the word “animal” now includes
every living creature except members of the human race, and
the words “torture” and “cruelty” include every act, omission,
or neglect whereby unjustiﬁable physical pain, suffering, or
death is caused or permitted.

ORGANIZATION OF OTHER SOCIETIES—PROGRESS OF THE
WORK.

The organization and inﬂuence of The American Society _
soon led to the establishment of local societies in all parts of
the Union and in other countries on the American Continent
and elsewhere. The number of local societies incorporated in

 

 

 




 

 

140

the United States is now 238, and in other American nations
21 societies have been established and incorporated since 1866,
making a total of 259.

The prevention of cruelty to animals has been the beginning
of many other humane organizations. Thus, in 1874, the So-
ciety appeared as prosecutor in a case of cruelty to children,
and it then appeared to be advisable to organize a separate
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children. This was
done in 1875, under the Presidency of Mr. John D. Wright;
Mr. Henry Bergh becoming Vice—President of the new so-
ciety, the ﬁrst of its kind. in the world, which has done so
much and such effectively goo-d work in the last thirty years.

The establishment of these and other organizations has rep-
resented an increased interest in humane work which has
found a practical expression in the legislation of nearly every
State in the Union. At this date there is not a single State in
which cruelty of any kind is not forbidden by the law, under
stringent penalties for disobedience. Some defects continue
to exist, of course; but, speaking broadly, it may be said that
the laws on this subject are good. What is now required is
that the great mass of the people shall be educated into sym-
pathy with the humanity of the law. That is now the greatest
work of the Society, and it has constant reason to be grateful
for the assistance and encouragement which it receives from
the press, the pulpit, and the judges of the courts.

The abuses growing out of the then prevailing systems of
dog catching and impounding having become so ﬂagrant as
to demand immediate checking, a bill, entitled “An Act for
the better protection of lost and strayed animals, and for se-
curing the rights of the owners thereof,” was prepared by the
President of the Society and introduced into the Legislature
of 1894, providing for the abolishment of the city dog pound,
and empowering the Society to carry out the provisions of
the act. This bill became a law on March 8, 1894 (Chap. 115,
Laws 1894), and the Society immediately thereupon com-
menced the erection of a. Shelter for Animals at 102d Street

 




 

I4:

and East River, provided with every accommodation for the
care of animals and their humane destruction.

In rescuing the community from the reign of the old dog
catchers, the Society earned the gratitude of the dog owners
of New York, and in 1895, at the request of the Mayor of
Brooklyn, the law was amended (Chap. 412, Laws 1895) so as
to include that city as well. A Shelter was then established in
that city, at the corner of Malbone Street and Nostrand Avenue,
and when Staten Island became a part of the greater City of
New York, a Shelter was also opened on Wave Street, Staple—
ton, Borough of Richmond.

Much suffering has thus been spared the vagrant, lost, and
abandoned dogs and cats of the city. Unwanted animals are
no longer thrown into the streets, to suffer and die of expo-
sure and starvation, but are given into the care of the Society
and by it mercifully destroyed or placed in good homes.

Through the generosity of kind-hearted people interested in
the work of animal protection, the Society was enabled, in
1896-97, to rear a commodious ﬁreproof building as its perma-
nent Headquarters, adequate to the increased needs of the So-
ciety, and supplied with every facility for carrying on the work
to the best advantage.

Meanwhile the practical work is not neglected. The ofﬁcers
of the Society are clothed with ample police powers. They
wear a distinctive uniform and patrol the streets by day and
by night. They have full power to arrest and prosecute offend-
ers against the laws relating to animals. In addition to the'
uniformed police, the Society has over two hundred special
agents in different parts of the State, clothed with the same
authority and engaged in enforcing the laws for the prevention
of cruelty. In the Boroughs of Manhattan and Brooklyn the
Society has ambulances for the removal of injured, sick, and
disabled animals; appliances for the rescue of drowning ani-
mals and animals which have fallen into excavations and a
patrol wagon which carries with it the necessary apparatus and
medicines for rendering aid to injured animals in the streets.

 

 

 

 




 

 

142

In addition to its permanent headquarters, Madison Avenue
and 26th Street, and the Shelters above mentioned, the Society
maintains an ambulance house at III East 22d Street,
New York, and an ofﬁce at I 3 Willoughby Street, and an am-
bulance house at 114 Lawrence Street, Brooklyn. In the
greater City of New York it maintains a uniformed force of
twenty-two salaried Special Agents, and in other parts of the
State of N cw York it has over two hundred volunteer agents.

In the prosecution of its work, the Society has in constant
use three large ambulances for the removal of disabled ani-
mals, and eight smaller ambulances, two tricycle carriers and
two motor ambulances especially constructed for the removal
of sick, injured and homeless small animals. Twenty horses
and a large corps of men are employed in this service.

The ofﬁcial organ of the Society is OUR ANIMAL FRIENDS,
a monthly magazine which is devoted to the cause of human-
ity to all living creatures, and which has an extensive and
growing circulation.

/

 




 

LEGAL AND CONSTITUTIONAL STATUS
OF THE A. S. P. C. A.

OPINION OF HON. CHARLES ANDREWS, FORMER-
LY CHIEF JUSTICE OF THE COURT OF AP-
PEALS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.

I n re The American Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Ani-
mals was incorporated by Chapter 469*of the Laws of the State
of New York, passed April 10, 1866. The charter was pro-
cured mainly through the efforts of Mr. Bergh, also the foun-
der of the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children.
He devoted many years of his life to the humane work which
the societies were organized to promote. The Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals was the pioneer organization
of this kind in America, and is the parent of the local organiza-
tions in this State established in many counties to carry on
similar work in their respective localities. The local societies
are not created by special charter as is The American Society,
but under a general law, and the general statute for the incor-
poration of such societies requires as a prerequisite to their
corporate existence that the proposed corporation shall obtain
the approval of The American Society to the incorporation, or,
if such approval is withheld, the sanction of a Judge of the
Supreme Court. (Chapter 490, Laws of 1888; Chapter 291,
Laws of 1892; Membership Corporations Law, Chapter 559,

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

I44

Laws of 1895, Section 79.) This legislation recognizes the
primacy of The American Society. The Charter Act of 1866
does not undertake to deﬁne with precision the powers to be
exercised by The American Society. But by Section 5 it em-
powers the Society to enact a code of by-laws for the regulation
and management of its affairs not inconsistent with the laws
of the State or of the United States, which, when enacted, are
to have the force of law. The Society, under this authority,
enacted by-laws, the second of which declares the objects of
the Society, viz.: “To provide effective means for the preven-
tion of cruelty to animals throughout the United States; to en-
force all laws which are now, or may hereafter be, enacted for
the protection of animals; and to secure by lawful means the
arrest, conviction, and punishment of all persons violating such
laws,” etc. It will be noticed that the enforcement of criminal
laws relating to cruelty to animals is one of the objects speciﬁed.
Speaking of The American Society, Judge Earl said, in Davis
vs. The American Society (75 N. Y., 362, 366): “The pur-
pose of the corporation was to enforce the laws enacted to
prevent cruelty to animals.” The American Society after its
incorporation actively entered upon the work for which it was
incorporated, and the change wrought in public sentiment and
in the treatment of dumb animals, replacing cruelty by kind—
ness patent to every observer, is due largely to the work of The
American Society. The original charter of the Society was
enacted solely for the protection of animals. The protection of
individuals and the public against wandering, diseaSed and
dangerous animals, especially dogs left to run at large upon
the streets without apparent ownership and uncared for, feed-
ing upon the ﬁlthy and often poisonous refuse of the cesspool
and the gutter, was not embraced within the original purpose
of the charter. 'In the City of New York and elsewhere this
subject had been left to municipal regulation, which had proved
ineffective to meet and prevent the discomfort and danger re-
ferred to. To meet this exigency the Legislature passed the Act,
Chapter 115 of the Laws of 1894, prescribing a system for the

 




 

 

156

police powers of the State, and in effect constituted it a public
ofﬁcer. “The decision below,” said the Court of Appeals, “can-
not be upheld on this ground.” The only new question upon
this branch of the case arises as to the validity of the provision
in Section 668 of the Penal Code, which authorizes any agent
or ofﬁcer of The American Society to arrest and bring before
the court or magistrate having jurisdiction any person offend—
ing against the provisions of Title XVI of the Penal Code, and
the provision in the same section which declares that the “ofﬁ—
cers and agents are hereby declared to be peace ofﬁcers within
the provisions of Section I 54 of the Code of Criminal Pro-
cedure.” It has been decided that the Legislature may author-
ize arrests by ofﬁcers without warrant for misdemeanors com-
mitted in their presence other than such as amount to breaches
of the peace (Burrows vs. Eastman, 101 Mich. 419), and in
this State this power exists without special legislative authority
(17 How. Pr. 101. See also Stage Horse cases, I5 Abb. Pr.,
N. S. 62). At common law a private person may arrest for
felony actually committed on reasonable grounds of suspicion
(Burns vs. Erben, 40 N. Y. 463), and may arrest for an aﬁray
or breach of the peace committed in his presence, but must,
without unreasonable delay, bring the offender before a magis-
trate. (Jordan 723. Reardon, I6 Minn. 431; 2 Am. and Eng.
Enc. Law, 2d Ed., p. 888, and cases cited.) The Legislature
may also extend the power of private persons to make arrests
for offenses committed in their presence so as to embrace mis-
demeanors of any kind, accompanied with the condition that
the offenders be brought without delay before a proper magis-
trate. This was what was done in respect to ofﬁcers and
agents of The American Society as to offenses under Title XVI
of the Penal Code. The provision constituting such ofﬁcers
and agents peace ofﬁcers simply means that they shall have the
powers of peace ofﬁcers in respect to the offenses speciﬁed in
Section 668. I am of opinion that the Legislature did not
overstep its authority in conferring the powers mentioned.

 

 

 




 

 

 

I 157

Even if it were otherwise the general scheme of the Act of
1902 would not be aﬁected. These provisions which are sep-
arable would fall, and the powers of the ofﬁcers and agents of
The American Society in other respects would continue.

(Signed) CHAS. ANDREWS.
December, 1902.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

PUBLICATIONS.

In addition to the monthly magazine of the Society, OUR
ANIMAL FRIENDS, and the manual, “Kindness to Animals,”
referred to in another part of this report, the Society publishes
a number of leaﬂets, among which the following may be men-
tioned:

No. I.—“Ten Rules for the Treatment of Animals.” Gives
valuable hints in regard to the treatment conducive to the good
health and happiness of animals.

N0. 2.———“What is Docking?” Points out the absurdities of
the practice, and cites the opinions of the best authorities prov-
ing the cruelty of the operation.

No. 3.-—-—“Fashion’s Cruelty and Bird Protection.” An able
plea by J. A. Allen, Ph.D., for the preservation of bird life,
now so wantonly and cruelly sacriﬁced in the interest of vain
fashion.

N o. 4.—-—“The Dishorning of Cattle an Act of Cruelty.” The
cruelty and fallacy of dishorning graphically set forth in a
résumé of the famous English dishorning case.

No. 5.—-“Hints for the Dog Days.” Dispels the many ig—
norant and false ideas in regard to rabies and hydrophobia,
and gives valuable information concerning the dog, its ner-
vous disorders, and its care.

No. 6.—-—“Rabies and Hydrophobia.” Gives the Opinions of
medical men on these diseases, and refers to the Pasteur treat-
ment and the Buisson cure by vapor baths.

These leaﬂets are intended for gratuitous distribution, and
will be forwarded to any address on receipt of postage, as fol—

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

No. 2, ten cents;

a
’

160

No. I, six cents

Nos. 3 and 4, twenty-ﬁve cents; No. 5, ten cents, and No. 6,

forty cents.
A booklet entitled “Blessed are the Merciful,” illustrating

and describing the work of the Society, past and present, will

Title XVI of the Penal Code, relating to cruelty to animals,
be sent on request.

is also published by the Society in pamphlet form, and a copy

will be forwarded to any one interested in the work.

m
£1
0
LL
6
k
C
a
p
r
e
p
S,
w
b

 




 

 

HOW TO PROCEED AGAINST
OFFENDERS.

There are two modes of proceeding, viz.: I. By giving the
offender into the custody of a policeman, constable, or other

ofﬁcer. II. By the apprehension of the accused under a war-
rant.

I.

BY GIVING THE OFFENDER INTO THE CUSTODY OF AN OFFICER
AUTHORIZED TO MAKE ARRESTS.

When you personally witness an act of cruelty, call the atten-
tion Of an ofﬁcer to the nature of the Offense, insist on the arrest
of the offender; if you cannot accompany the accused to the
magistrate, then give your name and address to the Ofﬁcer as a
witness, and be sure to take his number, name, and precinct,
in order that you may compel attention to the case. The law
requires the police throughout this State to aid in the protec—
tion Of dumb animals from injury and abuse; and should any
Ofﬁcer refuse his assistance—which is not likely to occur—

then take the number on his hat or shield, and report the same
to the Society.

II.
BY THE ARREST OF THE ACCUSED UNDER WARRANT.

When you do not personally see the act Of cruelty, or when
you can not procure an officer on the spot, or if the ofﬁcer

 

 

 

 

 




 

I62

refuses to act, then obtain the name and address of the offender,
and that painted on the vehicle, if any, and the names and resi-
dences of those who witnessed the act, and lay the facts before
a magistrate.

IN ALL CASES

Make a note of the time when, and the street or place where,
the offense occurred, and also the names and residences of all
persons present and of any others who may be called as wit-
nesses. If the offense was that of driving a horse or other
animal with galled neck or shoulders, or other wounds, note
the size and location of such wounds—especially if raw, dis-
charging, or in contact with the harness. If the offense was
ﬂogging or beating, note the instrument, the number of blows,
on what part of the body inflicted, and the effect, if any, on the
skin of the animal; if overloading, carefully observe the symp-
toms of distress, such as the trembling, falling, unusual perspi-
ration, or exhaustion. Report all cases of mutilation, such as
docking tails of horses, cutting tails or ears of dogs, or any
other torture; also cases of cruelty in the transporting of sheep,
calves, game, fowls, or other poultry, or animals, while bound
by the legs or otherwise, in any part of this State, either on land
or water. In every instance observe minutely and take down
in writing the facts and details, and also the language of the
offender at the time.

FINALLY.

Complaints or inquiries made to the Society at its head-
quarters, by night or by day, will receive prompt attention; and
ALL ARRESTS FOR CRUELTY SHOULD BE PROMPTLY REPORTED
THERE, To INSURE A PROPER PROSECUTION OF THE CASE.

 

 




 

STEEL GAS TANK FOR THE HUMANE
DESTRUCTION OF SMALL ANIMALS.

See Illustrations, page 38

The dimensions of this tank are as follows: length, ten feet;
width, ﬁve feet, and height, four feet six inches. A trap-door
is provided through which the animals are put into the tank,
and four heavy plate-glass windows light the interior. Ordi~
nary illuminating gas is admitted through an inch and one-
quarter pipe, and when the tank is to be emptied escapes
through a six—inch pipe. As shown by the illustration on page
38, a truck or cage rests on the bottom of the tank on tracks,the
latter withdrawing from the tank so that the cage can be moved
outside to facilitate the handling of the bodies of dead animals.

The method of destroying small animals by illuminating gas
was adopted by the Society after a thorough investigation of
other known methods, and is to be recommended from humane
and sanitary standpoints. Illuminating gas produces anaethe-
sia or insensibility, and death. follows almost instantaneously
and is absolutely painless. Charcoal fumes cause asphyxia or
suffocation, and the use of charcoal is not recommended for
that reason.

 

 

 




 

To Move woo may feel disposed to donate 63/ WILL to
the oeneoolem‘ oojeets of t/tz's Society, t/ze following
is submitted as a form .-

‘ Form of Bequest of Personal Property.

I give and bequeath unto “The American Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals,” a corporation created by
and existing under the laws of the State of New York, the sum
of .............................. dollars, to be applied to
the uses of said corporation.

Form of Devise of Real Property.

I give and devise unto “The American Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals,” a corporation created by and
existing under the laws of the State of New York, all [here
insert description of property], together with all the appurten-
ances, tenements, and hereditaments thereunto belonging or in
any wise appertaining, to have and to hold the same, unto the
said corporation, its successors and assigns, forever.

 




DONATION BLANK.

m19OWUM.

To JOHN P. HAINES, President,
The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals,
Madison Avenue and 26th Street, New York.

Sir: ~

Enclosed please find my check for $ , a donation to the general
funds of the Society.

Flange

fderess

This subscription carries with it no obligation for subsequent years.

Donations will be acknowledged in the Annual Report.

 

 




 

MEMBERSHIP IN THE SOCIETY.

Attention is again called to the fact that this Society receives no funds from the public treasury, its revenues
being derived mainly from members’ dues, voluntary donations and b( quests. The scope of the work could be
greatly extended if the Society had a larger ﬁxed income such as is derived from membership dues and interest
on permanent funds. An urgent appeal is therefore made for new members, and those vsho are already identiﬁed
with the cause of animal protection in this way are earnestly requested to interest their friends in the work with
a view to having them become members of the Society. -

The laws of the State of New York provide as follows: " lec police fo7cc of t/zc City of A’cw York, as
well as ofall other places roller; police organizations exist, s/zall, as occasion may ngnz'rc, aid (/16 Society.
z'ts ME/l/BERS, or agents, in the enforcement of all laws wlzz'c/z are now, or may lzcnaf/cr be, enacted for
the protection of a’nmo animals.”

Members are provided with a membership card and the emblematic button of the Society, which may be
shown as occasion requires.

_-._.._n.-n.n“nun-saun-unumH—n‘auum~—u——_.qugmmu-qmum.....—.....__._.._...-._.—........—.._._...__.._._.._..___._.._.._____...._.,__ ____‘A,, < . ~._..A _- E -~._A,.__.._,__,.____.....__._._._.e_.-,.___..___-‘_“--..~u

To JOHN P. HAINES, President.
Sir:
Please add the following names to the roll of members of The American Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals:

NAME ADDRESS

(If prOposed by a member, please sign here) ................................................................. .
Annual Membership, $5. Life Membership, $100.
Members receive all publications of the Society gratuitously. -

 

 




SUBSCRIPTION TO “CENTURY FUND.”

At a recent meeting of the Board of Managers of the American Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals it was resolved that the President be requested to communicate with
the friends of the Society and ask their assistance in the matter of establishing a “CENTURY
FUND.”

Subscribers to the “CENTURY FUND” donate $100 annually towards defraying the
general expenses of the Society, and may discontinue their subscriptions at any time.

__~_—_—_———L——~La-———-—h—-u.—n~.~_.—I--w-—u‘_~5 _~*-H——-—————I—a—~—u—-h~m~cn~_—~‘”-*—li—a~¢l-_h—~_I—u.~I—--—_u—s—u—-—_—_—~__.__‘~ I _ _____'___ ___‘ _. _._._.

Natl“ anc, 190 ooooo
70 V/OHN P. H.41NES, Pl’t’S/llt’lll.
Sir:

/ nerdy snlxsz‘r/ln’ 0/18 Hnndml Dollars ($100)) pdmldc’ annually,
in 1716- nnn—zllz of _____________________________________________________________ a _______________ /, in My “CENTURY FUND” of leu
Ann/van SOC/c’lfj‘ for flu? Prat‘unlzon of C rnullr In Hllllﬁdls‘, Inserting lln’ r/glzl lo
raw/ca I‘ln's snbsmpn'mz az‘ plmsnrv. ‘

Nana? - ___________________________________________________________________

Address < ____________ I __________

 

 

 

 

 




’Nf-N V
‘ $4921. ‘

0 A‘uy.
a

 




T HE AMERICAN Sammy

FOR THE

\_

g RREVENTION OFCRUELTY TOANIMALS

. INCORPORATED BY THE STATE my NH“ \TH<K
" ‘ .APRIL Io,1&m.

 

THIRTY—NINTH ANNUAL 1<1«:1’< >1<'1‘

2 FOR THE YEAR ENDING 1)1i(ﬂ‘l'g\i'l;lzl{ ;I. m- 4

JOHN P. HAINES, President.

 

’HlflADQUARTERS OF THE 50(71: I‘I'I‘Y'

MADISON AVENUE AND 26TH STREET

NEWWYORK

1905‘

 




v35.» >54 £335 Ekaéezmae
BEBE 7593.: SE83 5: mo mmmem<bdm<mm

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

9

calls upon us are almost innumerable. But the most vexatious
thing of all is that, when our men investigate these complaints,
it is found in over seventy—ﬁve cases out of every hundred that
the complaint is frivolous. Even when these calls ask us to
send an ambulance to remove sick or disabled small animals, in
thirty-ﬁve cases out of every hundred the ambulance driver
ﬁnds no disabled animal to be removed! Only a few years.
ago our Society had no such trouble as that. Our difﬁculty
was to get the public to cooperate with us by giving notice of
cases in which our intervention was required. Now, the
trouble is that a too appreciative public expects us to be every-
where and to go everywhere, even when there is nothing to be
done, and so it comes to pass that literally three-fourths of the
calls answered by our hard—worked force are merely idle and
the work of answeringthem is wasted.

I shall now report to you the statistics of our work done
during the past year, so far as it is possible to report it in that

way 2 I
1904. 1903.
Arrests and prosecutions ............................. 753 587
Animals suspended from labor ........................ 4,499 3,041
Horses, mules and other large animals, disabled past re-
covery, humanely destroyed. ...................... 4,287 4,288
Small animals, homeless or disabled past recovery,
humanely destroyed .............................. 81,865 83,012
Disabled horses and other large animals removed from
the streets in ambulances ......................... 710 544
Cases investigated ................................... 41,055 39,236
Horses examined .................................... 63,285 ......

In the arrests and prosecutions you will perceive that there
has been an increase of something over 28 per cent. over the
number reported in 1903; in the number of animals suspended,
from labor, very nearly 48 per cent; in the number of large
animals removed from the streets in ambulances, an increase of
30 per cent. The number of animals large and small that have
been humanely destroyed remains about the average. The
number of cases investigated is also about the average. A new

 




 

I7

We have been censured for allowing asphalted streets to exist
and for not having them sanded when slippery; for permitting
defective pavements to exist, and in one instance for not having
a certain street provided with electric lights instead of gas, so
as to insure safe passage for horses. We have been berated
for unavoidable delay on the part of the agents to respond to
calls, and charged with neglect and indifference if a report of
the investigation of a complaint does not show that the person
complained of was punished, even though the information given
was too vague to enable the Society to follow the investigation
up or the charge was found to be frivolous or unsubstantiated.
Yet every complaint is attended to when the information given
is sufﬁcient to base an investigation on.

While self-appointed workers are helpful in many respects,
they are often inefﬁcient from lack of experience and practical
judgment. Unwise discrimination and hasty action on the
part of unreasonable people very often bring much suffering to
the object sought to be beneﬁted.

Horses fall and get up without assistance, yet many instances
occur, where from no reason whatsoever, drivers have been
detained in order to have their horses examined by an Agent
of the Society, simply to gratify a desire for brief notoriety.

It does not follow that because a horse is thin in ﬂesh it is
for the want of food, neither does lameness in every case indi-
cate physical suffering. Volunteer workers in the cause of
animal protection should not act hastily, nor allow their imagi-
nation to control their judgment.

Many horses are ruined by incompetent drivers, and much
cruelty inﬂicted by minors who should not be permitted to have
the custody of animals at any time. There should be an ordi-
nance enacted prohibiting any one under 21 years of age from
driving horses through the streets of a city, and persons em-
ploying minors to drive or have custody of horses should be
held criminally responsible. '

 




 

ARREST AND PROSECUTION N

O

26

3

712

 

 

 




yup/u}.

A‘Klo

 

 

33

the alternative of serving for ten days in the County Jail. He paid the
ﬁne.

FOR cruelty in allowing a horse from his stable to be driven in a
horrible condition of lameness, Michael Morris, of Castile, Wyoming
County, N. Y., was arrested by the Society’s Special Agent. Morris is
a liveryman. The Society’s agent was notiﬁed of the horse’s lameness,
and went to the stable with a warrant for Morris. He found there what
he reports as one of the worst cases of cracked hoofs he had ever seen.
Instead of being perpendicular the cracks were around the hoofs, and
were sore and bleeding. The animal could hardly bear its weight upon
its distorted feet. Morris was arraigned before Justice C. H. Sherwood
and pleaded guilty. He was ﬁned $10.

FOR driving a wretchedly emaciated horse to an overloaded express
cart, Charles Cornwall was arrested by a Special Agent of the Society.
Closer examination of the animal revealed the presence of a sore on
the rump under the harness, a horribly festered sore on the nigh side,
and a sore on the OPE side. The prisoner pleaded that although he had
harnessed the horse, he had not seen the sores. When arraigned before
Justices Hinsdale, McKean and Wyatt, of the Court of Special Sessions,
First Division, he was sentenced to pay a ﬁne of $25, or to be impris-
oned for ten days.

ATTRACTED"i)y a crowd at One Hundred and Fifty-ﬁrst Street and
Morris Avenue, "Mr. George W. Hottemeyer and his brother crossed the
street to see what was the matter. A number of Italians were gathered
round a caged rat which was being shown them by Max Hopfen, a
young Russian. To Mr. Hottemeyer’s horriﬁed amazement, Hopfen
suddenly poured oil over the rat and struck a match to set ﬁre to it.
Mr. Hottemeyer and his brother attempted to shove Hopfen back, but
the crowd resisted them, and ﬁnally Hopfen succeeded in burning the
rat. Police Ofﬁcer Dennis J. Murphy, of the Thirty-sixth Precinct,
arrested Hopfen on Mr. Hottemeyer and his brother agreeing to appear
as witnesses in the case. The prisoner was taken to the Thirty-sixth
Precinct Police Station. He was then arraigned before City Magistrate
Charles A. Flammer, of the Fifth District Court, who held him for
trial by Special Sessions. The defendant pleaded not guilty, stating in
his defence that he had been in this country for only four months, was
ignorant of the law against cruelty to animals, and did not suppose
that he was doing wrong in burning the rat. Hopfen, who is only
eighteen years of age, can neither read nor write. Through an inter-

 

 




 

41

THE Society sent one of its Special Agents to the fair at White
Plains from September 27 to October I. The agent warned the hack-
men that he would instantly arrest any one whom he found over-
driving or in any way abusing his horse. While on the road to the
fair he examined a number of hack horses. On the fair grounds he
found some dog kennels badly constructed, and he suggested to the
manager that the dogs should be removed to more comfortable and
sanitary quarters, which was done. Some of the poultry were exhibited
in coops far too small, and at the agent’s instigation were removed
into proper shelter. A blind peddler of pencils had a poodle carrying a
basket in its mouth. On being told that the dog had been holding the
basket for three hours, the agent had the animal’s master take it from
him, and warned him not to give it again to the dog. Some minor
abuses in frightening animals were promptly brought to an end. It was
not found necessary to make arrests.

MICHAEL AMBINDER, fourteen years of age, was arrested by Police
Ofﬁcer Ira B. Baird for driving a weak horse. The Society’s Special
Agent examined the horse at the Seventy-second Precinct in Parkville
in the presence of Roundsman Hatton, who holds the Society’s medal
for making the greatest number of arrests for cruelty to animals in
Brooklyn. The horse was found in fair condition. The agent then saw
the father of the boy, Samuel Ambinder, who stated that he had gone to
market with his son and also had ridden in the wagon within a mile or
two of their home. Having other business to transact, the elder Am—
binder went in another direction and allowed the boy to drive the horse
alone. Arraigned before Justice John Fitzgerald, of the Children’s
Court, the child was paroled by the Justice. At the trial he was found
guilty and was ﬁned $5.

A RESIDENT of Avon, N. Y., was arrested by the Society’s local agent
for carrying several calves in a cruel and inhuman manner, with the
forelegs tied close to the head. When the cords were cut the poor
creatures could hardly stand up. Defendant demanded a trial by jury,
who disagreed, standing ﬁve for acquittal. In this case the defendant
was a popular and inﬂuential farmer, a resident of the town, and the
jury was comprised mostly of neighboring farmers.

THE Society’s agent at Carthage, N. Y., reports: “I had received
several complaints that the horses, cattle and sheep belonging to P
W , of Wilna, on his farm, about three miles from Carthage, were
entirely without food. I went to the place and found the animals
actually starving and not a particle of food of any kind on the premises.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

so

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

The Washington Humane Society.
24 W ardcr Bldg, Washington, D. C.
CHESTER A. SNOW, Pres. HERBERT E. MARTYN, Sec.

FLORIDA.

St. Augustine Humane Society.
5 t. Augustine.

WARD G. FOSTER, President. LOUIS LARSEN, Secretary.
The Jacksonville Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Jacksonville.

O. PIERRE HAVENS, President. B. H. CHADWICK, Secretary.
The Pensacola Humane Society.

Pensacola.

THOS. C. WATSON, President. D. HALE WILSON, Secretary.

Hillsborough County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

Tampa.
W. G. BARTHOLOMEW, Pres. - HENRY L. CRANE, Sec.

GEORGIA.

Georgia Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
I King Bldg, Augusta.
HENRY B. KING, President. FRANK E. BEANE, Secretary.
Atlanta Humane Society.
Atlanta.
J. F. BARCLAY, President. ORVILLE H. HALL, Secretary.

Brunswick Humane Society.

_ Brunswick.
WM. C. DOWNING, Pres. Mrs. I. E. DU BIGNON, Sec.

ILLINOIS.
The Illinois Humane Society.
560 Wabash Avenue, Chicago.
JOHN G. SHORT'ALL, Pres. WALTER BUTLER, Sec.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

58

The Keene Humane Society.
Keene.
HY. S. MACKINTOSH, Pres. Mrs. JOSEPH MADDEN, Sec.

NEW JERSEY.

The New Jersey Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
507 Prudential B Wilding, Newark.
G. W. THORN E, Pres. Col. E. S. EDWARDS, Sec.

The Hudson County District Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals.

Grand and Warren Streets, Jersey C ity.
GEO. M. MCCARTHY, Pres. EDWARD H. WHITNEY, Sec.

Cape May County, N. J., District Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals.

C ape May.

, Pres. , See.

The Vineland Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Vine'lfand.
Rev. R. B. MOORE, Pres. Rev. R. B. MOORE, See.

The Morris County Branch of The New Jersey Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

M orristown.
EDWARD Q. KEASBEY, Pres. Miss LOUISE SHELTON, See.

The Camden Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Camden.

WILLIAM J. COOPER, Pres. ABEL SMITH, See.
The Bergen County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals.

H aele ensa ck.

Rev. JOHN C. VOORHIS, Pres. 'WALTER ELY, Sec.

 




 

  
  
 
   
  
   
    
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

11 U41
H .1,“
“““

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
  

66

Pomeroy Branch Humane Society.
Pomeray.
, Pres. ‘ Mrs. .H. J. EWING, Sec.

 
    
  
    
   
 

The Youngstown Humane Society.
Youngstown.
Rev. S. R. FRAZIER, Pres. Miss LILLIAN F. PIERCE, Sec.

Yellow Springs Humane Society.
Yellow S prz'n gs.
CHARLES HAMILTON, Pres. CHARLES E. ADAMS, Sec.

 

Seneca County Humane Society.
Tlfﬁn.
Dr. E. J. McCOLLUM, Pres. IRVIN N. REX, See.

The Chardon Humane Society.
Chardon.
L. C. COWLES, Pres. M. L. MAYNARD, Sec.

Huron County Humane Society.

Nome/talk.
HENRY S. MITCHELL, Pres. Miss E. K. FISHER, Sec.

The Humane Society of New Lexington.
New Lexington.
Rev. HENRY BEEMAN, Pres. ————-———-——, Sec.
The Lima Branch of The Ohio Humane Society.
Lima.
R. C. EASTMAN, Pres. Mrs. E. B. SEREFF, Sec.
Miami County Humane Society.
quna.
HENRY F. DETTMAN, Pres. GEO. A. THOMPSON, Sec.

*

OREGON.

The Oregon Humane Society.
Portland.
ALFRED F. SEARS, Pres. W. T. SHANAHAN, Sec.

  

 




 

 

   
 
 
   
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
    
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
     

73

Monoton Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
M oncton.
GEO. B. WILLETT, Pres. WILLIAM A. MeDOUGALL, Sec.

St. John’s Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
5 t. John’s, Newfoundland.
Sir WM. V. WHITEWAY, Pres. GEO. M. JOHNSON, See.

The Winnipeg Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Winnipeg, Manitoba.

ROBERT BARCLAY, Pres. G. W. WINCKLER, See.
Sherbrooke Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
5 h erbrook e.

Hon. HENRY AYLMER, Pres. G. E. BORLASE, Sec.

Victoria Branch of the British Columbia Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals.

Victoria, B. C. .
Capt. A. T. DALLAIN, Pres. F. B. KITTO, Hon. Sec.

SOUTH AMERICA.

Sociedad Argentina Protectora de los Animales.
Calle Paraguay, 1059 Buenos Ayres, Argentine Republic.

Dr. IGNACIO L. ALBARRACIN, Pres.
ANDRES EGANA, Sec. ‘

Sociedad Protectora de los Animales.
Rosario de Santa Fe’, Argentine Republic.
W. BARNETT, Pres. W. MacWHIRTER, Sec.

Sociedad Protectora de los Animales.
M endoza, Argentine Republic.
MANUEL T. CABRAL, Pres. PASCUAL TELLEMUS, Sec.

Sociedad Protectora de los Animales.
Rio de faneiro, Brazil.
A. M. N. GONCALVES, Pres. J. ALBINO DA CRUZ, Sec.

 

 




 

 

 

GERMANY—Continued
Wﬁrzburg ........
Wupperthal .......
Zabern
Zittau ............
Ziirich ............
Zwickau ..........

Dr. Bauerlein ................
H. Espenschied ...............
-—-—- Gasser ..................
—— Thiemer ................

P. H. Wolff ..................
-——— Zemmrich ................

Mr. Eichelsbacher.
Ferd. Schumacher.
B. M. Goettgens.
—— Peschel.

H. Fischer-Sigwart.
—— Birkigt.

HOLLAND.
Alkmaar ..........
Amsterdam .......
Arnheim ..........
Baarn ............

K. A. Cohen Stuart ........... C. J. Reiziger.

B. J. Polenaar ................ C. F. J. Hanedves.
Baron H. A. Elias ............ M. F. W. Van Dulm.
J. P. Hooft ................... J. C. van der Veen.
Brada ............ A. P. Sheltus ................. —- Van Vooren.
Dordrecht ........ H. Hoyer .................... S. Schotel.
Haarlem . .. .. .. . . A. von der Voort ............. A. Beernink.
Hague, The ...... R. A. Klerck ................. L. V. van Rossern.
Hertogenbosch . Afdeeling Div ................... F. X. Verheijen .............. L. G. P. Max.
Hook of Holland” S. P. A ......................... P. Dregmans ..... _ ............ J. C. Jansen.
Maastricht ..... .. . S. P. A ......................... P. H. H. Routs ............... K. Vonk.
Rotterdam ..... .. . Netherlands S. P. A ............. H. de Bie .................... D. van Stolk.
Utrecht S. P. A ......................... . Van der Lip.

INDIA.
Ahmedabad ....... . . —— Manibkai.
Bangalore ....... . Col. D. Robertson ............. Gen. J. F. Fischer.
Bombay .......... The Bombay S. P. C. A .......... Dr. J. Pollen ................. K. M. Shroﬁ.
Calcutta ......... . Calcutta S. P. C. A .............. Hon Mr. JusticeJ. Stanley... G. W. Lees.
Howrah .......... Howrah S. P. C. A .............. F. W. Duke, I.C...S R. A. Donnithorne.
Kandy (Ceylon) . ~ W. Goonetilleke.
Kurrachee ........ Major Wadeson .............. F. E. Panthakey.
Madras ......... .. Madras S. P. C. A ............... Hon. H. T. Boddam .......... A. E. Rencontre.

Madras { 5' 5:301:31 dOCrﬁelchi‘rerlath/ilgtit l M. Kuppuswami Chetti,M.A. V. Ranganatham Nayudu.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

AGENTS.

In addition to the uniformed force attached to Headquarters
and the Brooklyn Ofﬁce, the Society is represented throughout

the State of New York by the following Agents:

ALLEGANY COUNTY.

BENJAMIN, R. W

Rushford
. Friendship
. Canaseraga

HARRIS (M.D.) WILLIAM H........ ..

GLOVER,GEORGE W... .. ..

. Oramel
. Bolivar

MUNN, JAMES E.... ..

WHITING, J. I .

BROOME COUNTY.

WILSON, JOHN M

. . Deposit

CATTARAUGUS COUNTY.

BOARDMAN, HENRY C... .. .

Salamanca
. . Randolph
Salamanca

HUNTLEY, JASON T....
NELLIGAN, DAVID P

CHAUTAUQUA COUNTY.

JENKS, A. FRANK ..

Jamestown

CHENANGO COUNTY.

I{OLBROOK, FRANK E

. Columbus
Oxford

MORSE,ALPHA..... .
STARR, LOUIS H..............

e
n
e
e
r
G

. Chenango

WILLIAMS (M.D.), GEORGE O..

CLINTON 00 U INTI.

 

. . Plattsburgh
Champlain

LIBERTY, LOUIS . ..
MOORE, JOHN N.....

 




 

 

LIFE MEMBERS.

 

THE PAYMENT OF ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS OR MORE, AT ONE TIME,
SECURES A LIFE MEMBERSHIP.

 

A

Allen, Mrs. John K.
Amend, Bernard G.
Anderson, Mrs. A. A.
Andrews, Mrs. B. L.
Andrews, C. A.
Appleton, Nathan
Archbold, John D.
Arnold, William

Astor, Mrs. John Jacob
Astor, William Waldorf
Avery, Samuel P.

B

Bailey, Mrs. J. Muhlenberg
Balch, Dr. Wm. V.
Banks, Jr., Robt. Lenox
Baptist, Robert F.

Barnes, Miss Mildred
Becker, Mrs. Jennie T. B.
Beebe, Gilbert J.
Benedict, Mrs. Louise M.
Bennet, Hon. Wm. S.
Benson, Miss Mary
Beresford, Mrs. John G.
Bergh, Henry

Billings, Miss M. M.
Billington, Mrs. Reno R.
Bliss, Miss Catherine A.
Bliss, Robert P.

Bliss, Susan D.

Borman, A. H.

Bostwick, Mrs. Jabez A.

Bowdoin, George S.
Boyd, J. Gilmore
Brewster, Robert S.
Bundy, Hobart L.
Burdick, B. W.
Burke, Edward F.
Butler, Miss M. W.
Butts, Mrs. Laura A.

C

Carey, Hon. Henry D.
Carnegie, Mrs. Andrew
Carpentier, Edward
Carpentier, Gen. HoraceW.
Cary, Miss Ellen G.
Chambers, Dr. M. L.
Chauncey, Henry D.
Claﬂin, Arthur B.

Claﬂin, John

Clark, Miss Ella Mabel
Clendenin, D.D.,Rev. F. M.
Clews, Henry

Cockran, W. Bourke
Convers, E. B.

Cook, C. T.

Corning, John J.

Crapo, John M.

Crocker, Mrs. Caroline B.

D

Daly, Henry F.
Daly, Mrs. Henry F.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

105

Dieterich, Charles F.
Dietsch, Edward J.

Dillar, W. E.

Dillon, John F.

Ditson, Mrs. C. H.

Dix, S.T.D., Rev. Morgan
Dodge, Miss Elizabeth W.
Dodge, Miss Julia P.
Dodge, Marcellus Hartley
Doelger, Peter

Dolan, James

Donaldson, Mrs. E. L.
Donlan, Joseph

Donnell, Mrs. F. 0.
Donovan, H. J.

Dorner, Albert

Drake, Mrs. Charles
Dreier, H. E.

Dreier, Miss Mary E.
Duggin, Mrs. Charles
Dunham, Miss Helen
Dunk, Mrs. Walter M.
Dunlop, John

Dunnell, Miss M.
Durand, John S.

E

Eaton, A. Lincoln
Eaton, Mrs. D. Cady
Eckstein, Samuel

Eddy, Mrs. Jane B. ~
Edgar, Miss Julia Lorillard
Edmonds, John W.
Edwards, J. Pierrepont
Egler, Fred.

Eldridge, Lewis A.
Elkins, Miss Fannie
Elkins, Miss Georgiana
Elkins, Miss Mary C. ~
Ellis, Mrs. A. V. H.
Ellis, John W.

Ellison, William B.

._ WW._.W—-m , »a_:;___.____.‘.~_

Ely, Ambrose K.

Emery, Mrs. M. L.

Emmet, Master Watson
Case

Emory, Mrs. John Come-

gys
Endicott, Mrs. Robert
Engeman, William A.
Englis, Charles M. "
Ennis, John J.
Eppig, Joseph
Erbsloh, R.
Erhardt, Hon. Joel B.

F ,

Fahnestock, William ”
Fairchild, Julian D.
Fairchild, Samuel W. '
Falls, Mrs.iC. B.

Fargo, James C.

Faye, Mrs. Ernest Fred’k
Feininger, Tecumseh
Feist, Karl

Felt, Edwin M.

Felt, Henry Wm.

Felt, Mrs. J. P.
Fessenden, Mrs. E. W.
Fielder, Miss Fannie A.
Finck, August

Fink, Mrs. George P.
Fish, 0. B. ‘
Fisher, L. Harry
Fisher, Philip

Fisk, Mrs. S. A.

Fiske, Mrs. Harrison G.
Fitch, Mrs. F. ’
Fitzgerald, Gen. Louis
Fitzsimons, Dr. J. W. '
Fleig, Albert B.

Fleig, Mrs. Elizabeth
Flint, Miss Annie

Flint, Mrs. Austin

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

Poggenburg, H. F. ,
Polhemus, Mrs. M. F.
Polk, Mrs. W. A.
Pomeroy, Mrs. H. K.
Pool, John H.

Porter, Mrs. Mary A.
Post, Abram S.

Potter, Mrs. Geo. M.
Potter, Miss Helen F.
Powell, Miss Mary Page
Powers, Mrs. Maud Holden
Prescott, Mrs. Annie E.
Preston, Ralph J.

Price, Theodore H.
Prout, Dr. J. S.

Prout, Mrs. J. S.

Pruden, Mrs. Charles L.
Pryer, Miss A. C.
Purdy, J. H.

Putnam, Geo. L.
Putnam, Miss Sara W.
Pyne, Grafton Howland
Pyne, Herbert Rivington
Pyne, Mrs. Moses Taylor

Q

Queck—Berner, C. A. J.
Quimby, Frank P.
Quinlan, Thos. F.
Quinlan, William
Quintard, George W.

R

Rader, Gustavus W.
Ramage, Mrs. Adelaide W.
Ramsay, D. S.

Ramsay, Miss Grace S.
Rand, George C.

Ranger, Miss Bella
Ranger, Miss Millie
Rankin, W. H.

113

Ranney, Mrs. Helen E.
Rapallo, Mrs. Edward S.
Raphael, H.

Rathbone, R. C.

Raub, Herman
Raymond, Charles H.
Raynor, Miss Florence
Read, Wm. A.

Reed, Miss Katherine
Reed, Mrs. Richard H.
Reese, Mrs. Wm. Henry
Reese, Wm. Willis
Reimer, Otto E.
Reisinger, Hugo
Remsen, Miss Margaret S.
Renwick, William W.
Reuter, Albert

Reynolds, Chas. H.
Rice, Jesse 1.

Richard, Auguste
Richards, Mrs. Guy
Riker, Samuel

Ring, Mrs. Chas. E.
Ring, Miss M. L.
Rinschler, Frank

Ripley, Louis A.

Robb, Mrs. Alexander
Roberts, Miss Clara
Roberts, Mrs. F. B.
Roberts, Miss Mary M.
Robinson, Mrs. C. L. H.
Robinson, Charles
Roden, Capt. George
Rodewald, F. L.
Roemmele, Jr., Fred.
Roesler, August

Rogers, Wm. E.
Rokenbaugh, Henry S. .
Rollins, Edward A.
Rolston, William H.
Roome, W. Harris
Rose, W. B.

Rosenbaum, Mrs. Helen

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Clark, Miss Ruth M ......
Clark, Mrs. William Irving.
Coffrriay, Mrs E ..........
Colton, Miss Harriet A.

Conlon, Frank A .........
Cooley, Charles E ........
Corning, C R ............
Cox, George K ...........
Crarie, the Misses .........
Crosby, Mrs. Edward N..

Crossman, George W .....
CrosSman & Bro., W. H. .
“.C S.” ...................
Curtis, Dr. N. F ..........

D

Daly, Henry F ............
Daly, Mrs. Henry F .......
Davis, Mrs. C ............
Davis, Mr. and Mrs. Gher-

ardi ...................
Dawes, Mrs. L C .........
De Coppet, E. J ..........
Dehon, Miss M. H ........
De Lashmutt, Mrs G .....
Destin, Miss Lottie Y .....
Deutermann, C ...........
Devoe, F. W .............
Dey, Anthony ............
Dodge, Norman W .......
Doepel, Edward F ........
Dows, Mrs. David ........
Duane, J. M ..............
Duncan, Mrs. John P .....
Dunning, H. A ...........
Dyer, E. Tiffany ..........

E

Edmonds, John V! .......
Eger, Mrs. T. G ..........
Eger, Mrs. T. G., “in mem-
ory of Mrs. H. Eger
Cole” ..................
Ellis, William D ..........
Ellsworth, Mrs. J. M .....
Elson, Benjamin F ........
Eno, William P .......... I

F

N

H

to
N001 001010100001 HUIN

N

88888888888888

8888888888888888 888

H

HM

to H tor-its)
UIU'IOOUIOJUIOOUIUIHUIOUIO

88

88888

8 .

Fenley, Peter .............
Ferris, Bertha A ..........

88

 

121

Flagg, John H ............ 3 00
Fletcher, Isaac D ......... 5 00
Flint, Mrs. Charles R ..... Io 00
Ford, James B ............ 100 00
Forepaugh, Miss Lily ..... IO 00
Foster, Frederick DeP.. 5 00
Fowler & Sellers ......... 2 00
Frank Monroe ............ I 00'
Franks, Mrs. L ........... 3o 00
Freund, Fred. C .......... 2 oo
“Friend, A” .............. 25
“Friend of the Society”. . 5 00
G

Gallatin, Mrs. A. H ....... 6o 00
Gallatin, Jr., Mrs. F ....... 5 00
Gallatin, Miss Louise B. . . IO 00
Garnsey, Julian E ........ I 00
Geer, George J ........... Io 00
Gempler, Frank S ........ 2 00
Gilford, Samuel T ........ 5 oo
Ginzburg, Alexander ...... 5 00
Glaus, Mrs. A., “in memory

of ‘Lady Buse’ ” ........ 5 00
Grifﬁths, George H ....... IO 00
Griscom, Jr., C A ......... 5 00
Gunning, Mrs ............ I 00

H

Haag, Mrs. M ............ I oo
Hadden, F. I ............. 50
Haight, Dr. A. M ......... 2 00
Halsey, John R ........... 2 00
Ham, James M ........... 5 00
Hanemann, L. H ......... I 00
Hann, Mrs. George V ..... 4 00
Hardie, James ............ Io 00
Harrison, Mrs. Charles C. IO 00
Harrison, Mrs. Mary L... 90 oo
Hart, George H .......... 5 00
Hartley, Mrs. Marcellus. . . 20 00
Hawes, Emory ........... Io 00
Heckscher, Mrs A ........ _ 5 oo
Heidermari, Julius” . ..' 5 00
Heissenbuttell & Nearing” 5 00
Henderson, Mrs. A. C ..... IO 00
Hendricks, Edmund. . . . IO 00
Hentz, Miss Helen L ...... I5 00
Hentz, Miss Mary R ..... IO 00
Herr, Mrs. A., “in memory

of dear old ‘Fritz’ ” ..... 5 00

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

LOUISIANA.
New Orleans ... . . ..
MAINE.
Portland
Bangor
Waterville
Androscoggin . . . . . .
MARYLAND.
Baltimore
MASSACHUSETTS.
Boston .............
Taunton . .. .. ......
Lowell . . . . ........ .
Brockton
MICHIGAN.
Detroit ....... . . . . .
Grand Rapids ......
Kalamazoo ..... . . . .
Coldwater ..... . . . . .
Adrian ......... . . . .
MINNESOTA.
St. Paul .......... . .
Minneapolis . . . . . . . .
Duluth ........... . .
St. Paul
Owatonna ..........
Winona .....
St. Cloud ........ . .
Red Wing
Rochester .. ...... . .
Stillwater ..........
MISSISSIPPI.
Natchez ............

 

Louisiana State S. P. C. A. .. .. .. .......... 21

Maine State S. P. C. A.*. .. .. . ................. 30
The Bangor Humane Society ...................
Waterville S. P. C. A .......................... 2
Androscoggin County Humane Society ..........

The Maryland S. P. C. A... ........ ..... . 110

The Massachusetts S. P. C. A., 10 mos. to Dec. 31 257
Taunton Humane Society ...................... . .. .
The Lowell Humane Society ................... .
Brockton Humane Society ...................... 2

Michigan S. P. C. A ............. . ............ .
Kent County Humane Society ..................
Kalamazoo Humane Society .................... .
Coldwater Humane Society .................... 2
Humane Society of City of Adrian .............. I

Minnesota S. P. C.* ............................ 4
Minneapolis Humane Society* ................... 40
Duluth Humane Society ........................
St. Paul S. P. C ............................ . .. .. 12
Steele County Humane Society .................
The Winona Humane Society* ................. 8
St. Cloud Humane Society ..... . .............. .
Red Wing Humane Society .....................
Rochester Humane Society ..................... 2
Stillwater Humane Society ..................

The Mississippi S. P. C. A ......................

 

 

 

 

 

160
50

II

340
1463

IO

‘iéé
59
I4

 

 

32
123

19

109

' iéé
£8.51

41

18681'

 

 

21

I47

150
151
22

 

 

270 352

13 132

I0
1850
i856
43
975

IO

 

 

* Fiscal year.

1' Large and small.

I29

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

I37

4. The periodical delivery of discourses from the pulpit.

5. The employment of constables in the markets and streets; and

6. The prosecution of persons guilty of ﬂagrant acts of cruelty, with
publicity to the proceedings, and announcement of results.

“Steadily working by the above means, bravely bearing
contumely'and overcoming difﬁculties, the founders became
stronger year after year: subscribers and co—workers gradually
joined their ranks; and a marked improvement slowly mani-
fested itself in the treatment of animals. Then followed the
distinguished patronage of Her Most Gracious Majesty the
Queen, Her Royal Highness the late Duchess of Kent, the
Nobility, and many distinguished Members of both Houses of
Parliament; and in 1840, by command of Her Majesty, the
Society was honored with the preﬁx of ‘Royal.’ Since that
period its progress has been regular, and its achievements en-
couraging, and now it is regarded as a permanently estab-
lished institution, which has outlived ridicule, and secured for
its founders the esteem of good and practical men of this and
succeeding generations.

“During many years the committee advocated the removal
and enlargement of Smithﬁeld Market. Owing to its agency,
bull-baiting, bull-running, cock—ﬁghting, badger-baiting, and
other wicked sports of a barbarous age have bee-n prohibited
by legal enactments. In 183 5 the Society obtained an amend—
ment of Martin’s Act; in 1845 an amendment of the law for
regulating Knackers’ Yards; in I849 a new and much im-
proved Act for the more elfectual Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals; and in 1854 an Act prohibiting the use of dogs as
beasts of draft or burden throughout England; and recently
many other Acts of Parliament.”

The ﬁrst society organized in America for the protection of
animals was The American Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, its founder and ﬁrst president being the
late Henry Bergh, to whose noble self-sacriﬁces and untiring
energies the cause of animal protection in this country owes

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
   
   
  
  
  

I45

licensing of dogs in cities of over 800,000 population (prac-
tically in the City of New York), the administration and su-
pervision of which was committed to The American Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. Section II of the Act
repeals the authority conferred upon the Common Council of
the City of New York by Sub-section 30 of Section 86 of the
Consolidation Act of 1882, to enact ordinances “relative to the
taxing and destroying of dogs within the said city.” The re-
pealing clause in the Act of 1894 shows that it was the intention
of the Legislature to substitute the system established by that
Act and the control vested in The American Society in respect
to dogs in the City of New York in place of the authority there-
tofore vested in the Common Council. The Act of 1894 was
amended by Chapter 412 of the Laws of 1895, and by Chapter
495 of the Laws of 1902, and the existing system is now em-
braced in the last-named statute. The leading features of the
Act of 1902 may be brieﬂy summarized. The Act requires
every owner of a dog in the City of New York to take out an
annual license and prescribe the license fee. Each licensed
dog is to wear a collar around its neck, with a metal tag at—
tached bearing the number of the license. It is provided that
dogs not licensed shall be seized, and if not claimed and re-
deemed within forty-eight hours, may be destroyed; and if not
claimed and redeemed or destroyed within ﬁve days after the
seizure, “they shall then be destroyed.” Any cat found without
a collar about its neck bearing the name and residence of the
owner “may be seized and disposed of in like manner as pre—
scribed above for dogs.” The power to issue licenses, to col—
lect the license fees, to furnish tags, and generally to carry out
the provisions of the Act is vested in The American Society.
Section 8 is as follows: “The American Society for the Pre—
vention of Cruelty to Animals is hereby empowered and au-
thorized to carry out the provisions of this Act, and the said
Society is further authorized to issue the licenses and renewals,
and to collect the fees therefor, as herein prescribed; and the
fees so collected shall be applied by said Society in defraying

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

146

the cost of carrying out the provisions of this Act and maintain-
ing a shelter for lost, strayed, or homeless animals and any
fees so collected and not required in carrying out the provisions
of this Act shall be retained by the said Society as compensa-
tion for enforcing the provisions of title sixteen of the Penal
Code, and such other statutes of the State as relate to the hu-
mane work in which the said Society is engaged.” The reason
for the last provision in this section, that the Society shall re-
tain the license fees not required for the other speciﬁed services
as compensation for enforcing the provisions of Title XVI of
the Penal Code, is found in the nature of those provisions and
the work of the Society in aiding in their enforcement. That
title of the Penal Code is entitled “Cruelty to Animals,” em-
bracing Sections 655 to 669, inclusive. They cover not only
the cases of cruelty to animals, but other offenses against good
order and affecting the public welfare connected with their
improper use. Among other things they make over-driving,
abandonment of diseased animals, the failure to provide ani-
mals with proper food and drink, wantonly poisoning them,
cock-ﬁghting and other similar sports, and the keeping of
cows in unhealthy places and the selling of impure milk, mis-
demeanors. The Penal Code has been supplemented by many
other statutory provisions which relate more or less directly‘to
the work of societies for the prevention of cruelty to animals.
(See Society Manual.) Section 668 of Title XVI of the Penal
Code expresses the legislative intention as to the relation of
The American Society to the execution of the proVisions of that
title. It provides that the ﬁnes and penalties for a violation of
the provisions of the title shall be paid over to The American
Society, except where the prosecution is initiated and con-
ducted by other societies for the prevention of cruelty to ani-
mals. It authorizes any agent or ofﬁcer of the Society to “ar-
rest and bring before a court or magistrate having jurisdiction,
any person offending against its provisions, and to interfere to
prevent the perpetration of any act of cruelty upon any animal
in his presence.” It provides that any of the societies may

 




 

I47

prefer complaints before any court or magistrate having juris-
diction, “and may aid in presenting the law or the facts before
such court, tribunal or magistrate in any. proceding taken.”
The section concludes, “The ofﬁcers and agents of all duly in-
corporated societies for prevention of cruelty to animals or
children are hereby declared to be peace ofﬁcers within the
provisions of Section one hundred and ﬁfty-four of the Code
of Criminal Procedure.” The work of The American Society
in aiding the enforcement of the Penal Code in respect to
cruelty to animals, the suppression of cock-ﬁghting, the protec-
tion of the public against impure milk, and the suppression of
other illegal practices, has been vigorously pursued. The So-
ciety through its ofﬁcers and agents, as shown by its records,
has aided in the prosecution of thousands of offenses against
the Penal Code and other statutory enactments for the protec-
tion of animals. Such prosecutions have resulted in convic-
tions for violations of these statutes under every section of Title
XVI of the Penal Code, and its beneﬁcent work has secured
the hearty cooperation of the public authorities in the City of
New York. Under the dog—licensing act its work has been of
the greatest public utility. During the ﬁrst ﬁve and a half years
after the passage of Chapter 115 of the Laws of 1894 164,226
dogs and 315,645 cats, roaming at large in violation of the
Act, were seized in the City of New York and taken to the
shelter. In the year 1899 more than 25,000 dogs and 56,000
cats were seized under the authority of the Act, and larger
numbers in each year thereafter. The Society at great ex-
pense has provided shelters for the retention of lost, strayed and
homeless animals, and for dogs and cats seized and held for
reclamation by the owners, or if not reclaimed pending the
time for their destruction. It maintains an ambulance service
and agents employed by day and night in the performance of
duties connected with the work of the Society.

In view of the Fox case hereinafter referred to the question
has been raised as to whether the Act of 1902 is subject to
any constitutional objection.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

I48

The regulation of the care of dogs and other animals in the
interest of public security is unquestionably within the com-
petency of the Legislature. It belongs to that great mass of
legislation enacted under what is known as the police power
of the State. The general purpose of the Act, Chapter 115 of
the Laws of 1894 as amended by Chapter 495 of the Laws of
1902, creating a license system for dogs, is plainly in the
interest and for the protection of the people of the City of
New York. It is not a tax or revenue act. The requirement
that owners of dogs shall take out a license is to secure their
proper care and oversight, and the license fee required to be
paid is incident to the carrying out of this purpose and to pro-
vide means for its execution. The Legislature, in the exercise
of its discretion to provide suitable means for the enforce-
ment of its policy, has by the Act designated The American
Society as the administrative agency for carrying out the license
system. There would seem to be no ground to question the
legislative power in this respect. It is to be observed that no
legislative power and no discretion is vested in the ofﬁcers or
agents of the Society. The Legislature itself determines that a
license shall in all cases be obtain-ed. It ﬁxes the license fee,
It enacts the consequences which shall follow a disregard of the
law. The Society has no discretion to withhold a license in any
case. In issuing licenses, supplying the tags, maintaining a
shelter, seizing unlicensed dogs, and destroying them unless
reclaimed within the time speciﬁed, the Society plainly acts as
the agent of the State, and exercises delegated, administrative
and executive functions only. In considering whether the Leg—
islature may vest these administrative powers in The American
Society, the nature of the corporation known as The American
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals is worthy of
consideration. The Legislature created the corporation by spe-
cial act. It named the incorporators. It was on its initiative
that the corporation was called into existence. Unlike cor-
porations formed under general laws by the voluntary action
of individuals, the Legislature simply authorizing their crea-

 




 

149

tion, The American Society is the direct creation of the Leg-
islature itself, created because in its judgment it supplied a
needed agency for the protection of animals. The additional
powers engrafted on the original charter by the Act of 1894
extended the work of the Society so as to embrace the protec—
tion of the public against animals roaming at will without care
and constituting a menace to public safety. In the general
classiﬁcation of corporations as public and private The Ameri-
can Society may technically fall within the last category. But
in its essential character and objects it was created for public
purposes. It subserves no private interests. Its duties and
powers relate exclusively to matters which have always been
deemed suitable for public regulation. There are no stock-
holders, and the whole revenue of the Society from licenses
must be applied in defraying necessary expenses in the em-
ployment of agents and providing the necessary incidentals for.
its work, and to promoting the objects of the incorporation.
It is a. quasi corporation, a term which marks the distinction
between strictly private corporations and those which, tech-
nically private, are organized for public objects. (7, Am. and
Eng. Enc. of Law, page 638, and cases cited.) The Society
is a subordinate public agency to perform a service which the
Legislature might delegate to a citizen or public body.

The only doubt as to the validity of the Act of 1902 is
based on the case of Fox vs. The Mohawk and Hudson River
Humane Society (165 N. Y. 517). The defendant in that
case was created by the consolidation under Chapter 292 of
the Laws of 1894 of two existing voluntary corporations or-
ganized under general laws, one for the prevention of cruelty
to children, and one for the prevention of cruelty to animals.
By Chapter 448 of the Laws of 1896 the general system for
the licensing of dogs engrafted on the powers of The Ameri-
can Society by the original Act of 1894 was applied to the
other incorporated societies for the prevention of cruelty to
animals. The Mohawk and Hudson River Humane Society,
incorporated in the County of Albany, in the execution of the

 

 

 




 

 

150

power conferred by the Act of 1896, was about to seize an un-
licensed dog, and out of this the litigation in the Fox case
originated. The plaintiff alleged that the Act was uncon-
stitutional, and so it was ﬁnally adjudged by the Court of Ap-
peals upon two grounds: First, that the ﬁfth section of the
Act which declared that “dogs not redeemed within forty-eight
hours (after seizure) may be destroyed or otherwise disposed
of at the discretion of the Society” in effect permitted the So-
ciety to harbor dogs without obtaining a license, as every other
citizen was required to do, and that this was the grant of an
exclusive privilege or immunity forbidden by Section 18 of
Article III of the State Constitution; and, second, that the
seventh section of the Act, so far as it required the owner of a
dog to pay a license fee to the defendant “for its own purposes,”
was a gift of public money in contravention of Section 9 of
Article VIII of the Constitution. In considering the applica-
tion of the Fox case to the poWers conferred by the Act of
1902 on The American Society it is important to notice that
the case is a decisive authority that the Legislature could law-
fully constitute societies for the prevention of cruelty to ani-
mals a public agency to execute the licensing system established
by the Act of 1896 and by the Act of 1902, and that the power
conferred upon the agents of the societies summarily to seize
and destroy unlicensed dogs was not repugnant to that clause
in the Constitution which protects property against invasion
without due process of law. The qualiﬁed character of prop-
erty in dogs was held to distinguish it from other property, and
that due process of law was exerted when the Legislature, un—
der the police power, authorized the seizure and destruction
of unlicensed dogs by the defendant Society.

The Constitutional objection raised by the Court of Ap-
peals in the Fox case, based upon the construction of the ﬁfth
section of Chapter 448 of the Laws of 1896, has been elimi-
nated as to The American Society by the amendment of the
ﬁfth section of Chapter 115 of the Laws of 1894 by the Act
of 1902. The original section ﬁve in the two Acts of 1894 and

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

151

1896 were in identical language. The Court of Appeals held
that it permitted the Society to harbor unlicensed dogs and
keep them at its pleasure without obtaining a license. This
the court held was the grant of an exclusive privilege in con-
travention of the Constitution. The Court said: “The de-
fendant can keep any dog it sees ﬁt and is not required to
pay anything for the privilege. N 0 one else in the community
can keep a dog without paying a dollar a year for the privi-
lege. . . . We think this an exclusive privilege con-
demned by the Constitution.” Again on page 526 the opinion,
after stating that under the Act then in question the Society
was not required to kill unlicensed dogs, proceeds: “It is
contended that the statute was enacted to exterminate home-
less, wandering or diseased dogs, which may be a source of
great danger to life and health. If the statute prescribed ac-
tion appropriate to effect such result the work directed to be
done in pursuance of it might be well termed governmental
and a very different question presented.” The ﬁfth section
of the Act of 1894, as amended by the ﬁfth section of the
Act of 1902, completely removes the objection of special privi-
lege, and that the work of the Society is not governmental.
It makes it imperative on The American Society to destroy
all unlicensed dogs seized after the temporary detention per-
mitted to give opportunity for their reclamation. The Society
cannot harbor them within the meaning of the statute nor keep
a kennel nor sell them. They are irrevocably devoted to de-
struction unless reclaimed Within the brief period allowed by
the owner. The langauge of the amended section is: “Sec-
tion 5,—Dogs not licensed pursuant to the provisions of this
Act shall be seized, and if not claimed and redeemed within
forty-eight hours thereafter they may be destroyed; but if not
claimed and redeemed or destroyed Within ﬁve days of the
time of seizure they shall then be destroyed.” It is clear that
the constitutional objection founded on Section 18, Article III
of the Constitution made to the Act in the Fox case has no
application to the Act of 1902.

 

 

 




 

 

 

152

The provision in the Act of 1902 that the license fees col-
lected by The American Society “shall be applied by said So-
ciety in defraying the cost of carrying out the provisions of this
Act and maintaining a shelter for lost, strayed, or homeless
animals and any fees so collected and not required in carry-
ing out the provisions of this Act shall be retained by the said
Society as compensation for enforcing the provisions of Title
Sixteen of the Penal Code and such other statutes of the State
as relate to the humane work in which said Society is engaged,”
is not a gift of public money forbidden by the Constitution.

The clause of the Constitution bearing upon this question is
Section 9 of Article VIII, which declares: “Neither the credit
nor the money of the State shall be given or loaned to or in
aid of any association, corporation, or private undertaking.
This section shall not, however, prevent the Legislature from
making such provision for the education and support of the
blind, the deaf and dumb, and juvenile delinquents, as to it
may seem proper,” etc. The design of this section and of the
tenth section, imposing a similar prohibition on cities, towns
and villages, was to interpose a barrier to the practice which
had grown up in legislative bodies to appropriate public mon-
eys or to loan the public credit in aid of private enterprises on
the plea of assumed public utility. The bestowing by the Leg-
islature of public money as gratuities to corporations or indi-
viduals was prohibited by the ninth section and nothing beyond.
An appropriation by the Legislature of public money, unless
it amounts to a gift to the corporation or individual designated
as the recipient, is not within the prohibition. The prohibitory
words: “Neither the credit nor the money of the State shall
be given,” admit of no other interpretation. It may very well
be that an appropriation by the Legislature of public money
under the guise of a contract would be a gift within Section 9,
Article VIII of the Constitution provided the contract was not
one which the State was authorized to make. But where no
evasion is attempted and the appropriation is not made as a

 

 




 

 

 

' I53

gratuity, but is founded upon a consideration which the Legis-
lature may lawfully recognize, it is not condemned by this sec-
tion. If invalid its invalidity must be found in some other
prohibition or provision of the Constitution. The substantial
answer to the constitutional objection raised under Section 9,
Article VIII is that the provision in Section 8 of the Law of
1902 is not, in terms or in substance, a gift of money to The
American Society. This provision devotes the license fees to
defraying the expense of executing the police policy of the
State in respect to the licensing system established by the Act
of 1902, and of enforcing the criminal statutes relating to
cruelty to animals and other cognate subjects. The work done
by the Society in respect to these matters has been referred to,
and its importance and the efﬁciency of the Society as the
recognized agency to secure the enforcement of these statutes
is known and acknowledged. The discharge of the duties in-
trusted to The American Society involves large expenditures
in carrying on the organization, employing agents, maintain-
ing a shelter for the temporary detention of animals, main-
taining an ambulance system, and other similar purposes.
There can, we conceive, be no question that the Legislature
could properly charge the expense of executing the license sys-
tem and the compensation of its agents in aiding in the enforce-
ment of the provisions of Title XVI of the Penal Code upon
the license fund. This is all that was done by Section 8 of
the Act of 1902. Payments by the State for these purposes is
in an accurate sense a discharge of the obligations of the State
incurred in the administration of its police power. Compensa-
tion made by the State to an individual or to a corporate body
for public service rendered at its instance is neither in form
nor substance a gift of the public money. The clause in Sec-
tion 9 of Article VIII of the Constitution following the pro-
hibitory words, viz.: “This section shall not, however, pre-
vent the Legislature from making such provision for the edu—
cation and support of the blind, the deaf and. dumb, and juve-

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

154

nile delinquents, as to it may seem proper,” do not justify an
inference that compensation made by the State for services
rendered by private corporations or individuals in the execu-
tion of police regulations are gifts of public money. It will
be noticed that this clause is not put in the form of an excep-
tion to the preceding prohibition. Obviously payments by the
State for the education and support of dependent classes made
to private corporations which undertake, at the instance of the
State, the performance of duties recognized as public, and
which the State in justice ought to assume, are not in any prop—
er sense gifts. It is not, however, difﬁcult to conceive cases
where forms of State aid to private corporations engaged in the
relief of the blind, the deaf and dumb, etc., might be regarded
as gifts instead of provisions for education and support. The
framers of the Constitution designed to give a free hand to the
Legislature in providing for the objects speciﬁed in this clause.
The clause was evidently inserted out of extreme caution so
as to preclude any construction which would hamper the State
in providing for this beneﬁcent work. It does not tend to show
that compensation by the State to private corporations for
public service is a gift of public money within the prohibition.
The statute under consderation in the Fox case (Chapter 448,
Laws of 1896), provided (Section 7) that the license fees col-
lected by the societies, of which the Mohawk and Hudson River
Humane Society was one, should be used by the societies in de—
fraying the expenses incurred in carrying out the act “and”
maintaining a shelter for lost animals, etc., “and,” this section
concludes, “for its own purposes.” It was upon these con-
cluding words that Judge Cullen based his opinion that the
section violated the prohibition in the Constitution against gifts
of public money to private corporations. After negativing the
grounds upon which the Appellate Division rested its decision,
Judge Cullen said: “We think, however, that the statute is
unconstitutional so far as it requires the owner of a dog to pay
a license fee to the defendant for its own use.” The authority

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

I55

given to the Society to retain the license fees and apply them to
“its own purposes,” which embrace not only the protection of
animals but of children also against cruelty, was the turning
point on that branch of the case. The money was not given to
the Society as compensation, and it could be used at the dis-
cretion of the Society for purposes not germane to the source
from which it was derived. The Act now governing The
American Society (Chapter 495 of the Laws of 1902) differs
in an essential and vital point from the Act under consideration
in the Fox case. The money remaining, if any, after paying
expenses of carrying out the license system and maintaining
a shelter is to be retained by The American Society under
the Law of 1902 (Section 8) “as compensation” for enforcing
the provsions of Title XVI of the Penal Code and other simi-
lar statutes. The right to make such. compensation is, in my
judgment, undoubted, and while the amount authorized to be
retained is quite inadequate to the development of the con-
stantly broadening work of the Society, the amount of the com-
pensation to be made, if compensation can be made at all, is a
legislative and not a judicial question. Upon the whole I am
of opinion that the disposition of the license fees made by the
Act of 1902 is not in conﬂict with Section 9, Article VIII of the
Constitution, and that the Fox case may and ought to be dis-
tinguished on this point from a case arising under that Act.

In respect to the suggestion that the Act of 1902 attempts to
confer on The American Society the power to appoint public
ofﬁcers in the authority to appoint ofﬁcers and agents, who,
when appointed, are vested with ofﬁcial functions, is answered
in the main by the decision of the Court of Appeals in the Fox
case, which expressly overruled the opinion of the Appellate
Division that the Act of 1896, which conferred power upon the
ofﬁcers and agents of the Mohawk and Hudson River Humane
Society identical with those conferred upon the ofﬁcers and
agents of The American Society, was unconstitutional in that
it assumed to vest in the defendant the execution of certain

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

AN APPEAL.

An erroneous idea is entertained by many that this Society
is beyond the necessity for further appeals to our benevolent
and generous—hearted people for aid. It receives no appropri-
ations from the city orState, and is dependent upon voluntary
subscriptions, donations, and bequests. The usefulness of the
organization could be largely increased, and the ﬁeld of its
labors greatly extended, if it had a more adequate pecuniary
support. As all know, the objects of the Society are to enforce
the humane laws, to investigate complaints, to care for lost or
abandoned animals, or to destroy them mercifully, to suppress
cruel beating, overloading, and.'over-driving, and to protect
and assist sick, maimed, and starving animals.

Another prominent object of the Society is the distribution
of humane literature, out of which shall grow not only the kind
treatment of animals, but the higher elevation of our own race.
It may be desirable to state in this connection that during the
past year the Society has published and distributed many mil-
lions of pages of printed matter in the interest of humanity to
animals, and we have had ample reason to know that the effect
has been fully as great as could have been reasonably hoped
for this purpose and to these ends we earnestly invite your
pecuniary assistance.

The library of the Society contains many valuable books
relating to the brute creation. Contributions of works treating
of animal life are urgently requested. The library is of great
importance and value to the Society in aiding it to carry on the
educational feature which now so largely enters into the work
of animal protection.

Contributions to the Society will be acknowledged in the
annual report. I

 

 

 




