 

NOTICE.

 

THE Secretary respectfully i'eqiieSts subscribers,
n‘iembers, and others, to transmit to the Society’s
ofﬁce any extracts from newspapers or other publi-
cations, which may come under their observation,
bearing upon the, objects of the society; and also
all BOOKs treating on natural history, or of any

kind which may add to'the value of the ‘

. Library of the Society,

thereby greatly aiding the Executive ofﬁcers in
coming to correct conclusions upon the v( rious sub

jects which come under their cognizance.

The donation of a ﬁrst-class EN CYCLOPEDIA' would

be much appreciated.

OFFICE on THE SOCIETY,
No; 696 Broadway,
Cor. Fourth street, New York.

\,_'

' 2 M33313» =31, ;_ ,A.

if. a:lgi " '¢‘*.""

4:

:5er < 4' Sta”... sag-\Zy‘nb' ‘ -

:1“~:;3,"" .2 ‘ i . -i . V . A
‘ ‘ ”Kit-w- 531-mainmaﬁsmrqga. ._ ~.=.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

' Annual. Meeting, 1.

Arrests, increase of, 410,
Appleton, Mrs. VVilliam, Ill.
Arrests and Convictions, 57.
Agents, 1041.,

Books Donated, 98..
Bequest, 103.
Branch Societies, 105, 106.

C

Charter, vii.
City Railroads, 11.

“Correspondence with Rev. S. M.

Isaacs, 18.
(Battle Yards, 26.
Congress of Paris, 36.
Campbell, A. H., 40.
‘Glaﬂin, H. B., 49.
Committee on Nominations, 55.

D
Dog and Cock Fights, 17.
Dog Pound, 50.

Donations, 90.

E

Executive Committee’s Re ort 43.
. 7

Ex-Oﬁicio Members, v.

F

Fountains, 4.
Farmers’ Club, 54.

Fin ally, 103.

 

Honorary anhors, v.
Hall, A. ()akey, 10.
Horse Flesh, 35.

Hoﬂinan, Mayor, 40.

J
Judiciary, 9.

L

Lectures, 3.

Legislation, 29.

Live Stock Insurance Cos, 38.
Lord, Mrs. Mary E., 41.
Laws, 75.

M .
Metropolitan Police Force, 9.
Members, 90.

Notice, i.
Newspapers Donated, 98.

0
Ofﬁcers, iii.

Omnibus Companies, 10.
Overcrowding Cars, 14.
Ordinances, 88.
Obituary Record, 102.

P

Press (The), 9.
Punishment for Misdemeanor, 84
Pamphlets Donated, 98.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

R

Refrigerating Cars, 6-

S
Secretary’s Report, 2.
Sheep and Calves, 10.

Slaughtering Cattle, 1‘7.

Swiu Milk Cases, 25.
Snow Obstructions, 33.
Summary, 38.
Suggestions, 85.

Subscriptions, 90.
State Societies, 107, 108;

T

'l‘rcasurer’s Report, 42.

V

Vivisection, 2-4.

W
White, Mrs. Caroline 13., 41.

 

 

 




 

ll} i3.

 

 

 

 

RENEE > SGCIEWY

ELECTED AT THE

ANNUAL MEETING IN MAY.

A.‘
v v

@rzsihmt

   

 

Henry Bergh.

 

mics-ﬁresibmts.

John T. Hoffman. George T. Trimble.
Henry W. Bellows, D. D. Wm. H. A3pinwall.
Peter Cooper. Moses Taylor.
James Brown. Marshall 0. Roberts.
Benjamin D. Hioks. Horace B. Claﬂin.

——_

@rccnﬁbc (Emnmﬁtez.

James 'T. Brady. Oliver H. Perry.
Nicholas Ludlum. Frank Leslie.
John D. Wolfe.’ Thos. o. Acton.
N. P. Hosaok. John A. Kennedy.
.August Belmont. William H. Webb.
Wm. MoMurray. John B. Murray.
Henry Bergh. "B. G. Squier.

John Mudie.

 

5mm. @Izasnm.

N. P. Hosack. John B. Murray.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 

HONORARY MEMBERS.

 

 

ANDREW JOHNSON, President of the 'United StatesJ

em oﬁicio.

B. F. WADE, Acting Vice-President of the United;
States, ea: oﬁcio.

REUBEN E. FENTON, Governor of the State of
New York, 6:20 aﬁcio.

STEWART L. WOODFORD, Limit-Governor of the
State of New York, ca; oj/icio.

 

 

EX OFFICIO MEMBERS.

The Right Hon. the Earl of HARROWBY, President of the

Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to

Animals, London. ,
JOHN COLAM, Esq., Secretary of the Royal Society for

the P. C. A.7 London.

ANGELO AMEs, Esq., of Albany, N. Y.

 

Justice RICH’D KELLY, of New York‘

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

KCHARTE R.

——————g—4 050 Qv———-——-——

AN ACT to incorporate the [XMERI’UAN Soomry FOR

THE Pl’ul‘lVl‘lN'l‘lUN (7)19 (llﬂllil/lTY 'l.‘() A,NIMALS.

Passed April 10, 1866, he the Leg/islatm'e .

of the State of iVe/u) J?)1'h.~ Vol. 1., Chap.
460, Page 11019, of the Rev/Bed Statutes.

SECTION 1. That John T. Hoffman, Henry Grin-
nell, J. J. Astor, J r., Geo. Bancroft, Shepherd Knapp,
James T. Brady, John A. Dix, Marshall 0. Roberts,
James Brown, I’loratio Potter, Thos. H. Taylor,
Erastus Brooks, Chas. l). Daly, Moses Taylor, Geo.
T. Trimhle, John D. Wolfe, Henry W. Bellows,
Peter Cooper, Francis B. Cutting, ’Wm. H. Aspin-
\«vall, John Van Buren, Hamilton Fish, Daniel Par-
ish, J ohn J. Ciseo, A. ()a‘key Hall, John MoClos-
key, "Win- C. Bryant, Edward G. Steeliia, Horace
Greeley, Samuel B. Iiiuggles, James Lenox, Au-
gust Belmont, Moses H. Grinnell, Wm. H. Webb,
Jas. Gallatin, Harper Brothers, J Ls J. Roosevelt,
C. V. S. Roosevelt, Alex. Stuart, D. C. Kingslancl,
Jas. W. Gerard, Joseph P. Beach, Geo. T. Oly-
"phant, Oliver S. Strong, Henry Clews, Archibald
Russell, Benjamin. B. Winthrop, John A. Kennedy,

Daniel Carpenter, Geo. W Dilks, Chas. Addonr-g, -

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

V111.

Geo. Griswold, Simeon Draper, Robert L. Stuart,
Andrew Warner, Alex. T. Stewart, Daniel Butter-
ﬁeld, A. o. Kingsland, E. A. Washburn, M. 8.
Beach, John D. Jones, Frank Leslie, Wm. Coven-
try H. Waddell, Chas. A. Bristed,Thos. C. Acton,
Wm. McMurray, James Leonard, A. D. Russell,
Henry Bergh, all of the city of New York, and
such other persons as may be associated with them,
in conformity to this act, and their successors, are
hereby constituted and created a body corporate,

by the name of “The American Society for the Pre»

vention of Cruelty to Animals.”

SEC. 2. The ofﬁcers of the said corporation shall
consist ofa president, ten vice-presidents, one secre-
tary, one treasurer, an executive committee of ﬁf-
tﬁen members, and such other ofﬁcers as shall from
time to time seem necessary to this Society.

SEC. 3. The foregoing ofﬁcers shall be chosen
from among the members of the Society.

SEC. 4. A library may be created for the use of
the Society.

Sec. 5. The said Society, for ﬁxing the terms. of
admission of its members, for the government of
the same, for the election, changing, and altering
the ofﬁcers above named, and for the general regu-
lation and management of its affairs, shall have
power to form a code of By-Laws, not inconsistent
with the laws of this State or of the United States,

1‘]




 

 

 

 

 

' ANNUAL MEETING

I OF THE
AMERICAN SOCIETY

FOR THE

iglnhmttinn of grutlty tn genitals.
' 4 {3

c)

 

I868.

 

 

 

Ofﬁce of the Society, 696 Broadway,

Corner Fourth Street, -

New York, 7th May, 1868.

At the Annual Meeting of the Society, held at their
Ofﬁce, this evening, HENRY BERGH, Esq,
President, in the Chair. '

The reading of the minutes of the last meeting of
the Society was dispensed with. The next
business in order being REPORTS FROM OFFL‘
ones on THE SOCIETY, the following report of

the Secretary was read, accepted, and ordered
on ﬁle.

 

 

 

 




 

m

gammy“ it"lrpnrt. .
D ,.

«D

’———'—->. . .~——-——-——-

IN compliance with Section 3d of Chapter Vi.
of the By-Laws of the Society, the Secretary re-
spectfully submits the f(,)llowing Report of the

,y.
t)

April 30, 1868 : .

proceedings of the Society during the year endin:

That there exists substantial cause for congratu»

lation at the results obtained during this period; ,
that the Institution has been steadily working its
way up to public favor; that inconsiderate preja
dice has yielded to a more merciful and enlightened»
sentiment; and that, Whilst the demoralizing in-
stinct of cruelty has diminished in intensity, the
area of reforms has extended, even beyond the J):—
pectation of the most hopeful.

The subject of the Prevention of Cruelty, since
the publication of they-Report referred to, has at.-
tractml an unusual degree of public attention. The
public mind, ever ready to appreciate results, recog-
nizes, in the achievements of this humane institu~
tion, the factthat the principle of mercy which un.»
derlies its operations, While ameliorating the condiu

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

3

tion of the lower animals, likewise inculcates the
sentiments of kindness and forbearance among man-

kind.

While neglecting no opportunity of enforcing
the penalties prescribed by the laws relating to
cruelty to animals, a detailed statement of which
is appended, the preventive purpose of the Society,
as expressed in its title, has been kept steadily in
view. Several thousand copies of a small-illustrat-
ed work, treating of the consequences of cruelty to
animals, have been circulated among the children
of several institutions here and elsewhere, and the
seed thus sown in the hearts of the young cannot .
but bring forth good fruit. ‘

During the last summer, our President solicited
and obtained permission to deliver an address be-
fore the Putnam County Agricultural Society,
held at Carmel, taking for his subject, “Our
Dumb Chattels.” The audience, consisting of
about 3,000 persons, listened with deep atten-
tion to this novel idea, and, it is believed, with
happy results. The President has also delivered

the following

LECTURESr .
On the 16th Oct., before the children of the
“ Five Points House of Industry,” in Worth street.

On the 14th November, before the children of
the “Five Points Mission.”

 




//,/// ///// '
M if

\KL.
v

d \

ii

«We:

 

 

Mun 1‘

"w
I
WW“

mu” 8“" \\\\\k {

It“!

”I l
it
n {W 1&9“; i‘

iii." I
Ulﬂnm

 

 

3%,
en of the “ Five Points House

1'3
,L

. I);

.,// , .‘.-
‘_ .M//’/
d ’14:, '{V/gnfi“ U. l

. a!
1:471,

BERGH to the child

 

 

 

       
  
   

‘ /)/7/'/ 7377/;
-— 'I M \
”44/449 ”/Wéé‘z/a' ‘«.

. W/Jl'

 
 
  
 

    

 

_4. 3/17??- ‘ “ ’9C\5.'=' ,< x

I

Address of Mr;
of Industry,” Octobe

 

   

 

 

 

1' 16th, 1867.

g “ all children, who are W1

Requestln
up their right

hands.”

 

   
    
 
 

 

—~—q__
- wx




 

4

0n the 15th Nov., before the children of the
“ ﬂome of the Friendless,” in East 30th street.

On the 20th Nov, before the “Young Men’s
Christian Association,” in Varick street.

On the 24th Nov, before the inmates of the
House of Refuge, at Randall’s Island, composed of
1,000 children.

All of which were on the objects of this Society.

The following sketches of the incidents of Mr.
Bergh’s lecture at the “Five Points House of In-
dustry,” which appeared in those elegant periodi-

. cals, Frank Leslie’s Illustra'ted Newspaper, and the
Bog/8’ and Girls" I’Veekly, are regarded by the Sec-
retary as appropriate to this Report.

It is hoped and believed that these addresses,
and the many story-books which have been circu-
lated among the rising generation, will tend to cre- '
ate a healthy sentiment in regard to the rights of
the brute creation. While on this subject, it
should be stated that the Society has published
and distributed no less than 17 ,500 pamphlets, eX-
elusive of hand-bills, during the past year relating
to the objects and purposes for which it was cre-
ated.

FOUNTAINS.

In the preceding Report it was announced that
proposals had been issued for the erection of
drinking-fountains for horses, cattle, and smaller

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




P“

Q

 

animals, in this city, and that, owing to unavoid}
able delays, the Society was unable to perfect
them in time to notice the fact in that Report.
The Secretary has now the satisfaction to an-
nounce the e1 ection of ten of these useful and or-
n amental structures, at the following places 1n this

city .
At the Bowling Green. ' 1 ' i

 

‘At the junction of Liberty street and Maiden
Lane. .

At the junction of Second and Houston streets.

 

At Union Square, facing Fourteenth street. (j.

At the Worth Monument, T wenty -fourth street
and Fifth avenue.

At the junction of East Broadway and Grand
street.

At the corner of Christopher and Hudson
st "eets.

At the junction of Broadway and Park Row.
At the foot of Wall street.

 

 

At the junction of West and Reade streets.

 

The utility, both 1n a moral and material point
of View, has been made apparent by the reco1d of
three houIs d111 1119.," one day 1n August of last yea1 ?

 

 

 




 

umxg

In!

311

 

Amd 9113,

'pﬂﬂOJﬁ-
){oog-Moqg eqo,

TH

E

3UIA1909

$10021

«(.1003 pawmsnﬂl 9‘14

 

 

 
  
 
  
 
      
 
 
           

 

  
      
 
 

‘.'~<-|‘| #72,?

392$}

 

 

 

1.;
t’ﬁr—

I’ﬂ/ﬂ/ /

 

 

 

        
  

. ,, ‘1»,
‘ 6 .u“ ’ "

- /5%,

3%) 3'" '

     

\

 

 

 

‘ €559
, [1P 94’ :'
'., L >
'1 r,~‘_ ,r,,;,. /, '
y 1"”, /<”.”y/,'/'t
V wg/a 1.,HII . é I,
s \H -II .. KS!" 1.1/”/ /ﬂ
H “/1152 43.. #1" ‘“ ‘14. ;~
‘__...—-« ’ 'J<;...L'..'.',._—-

 

 




 

 

 

j.-.

 

Ayn-”sf

,,- u.-. u.” ,__.‘ m: N
i,___——__

6‘ I

According to an accurate account kept by a per-
son stationed at the fountain on the south end of
the City Hall Park, 850 men, \x'tmien, and chil-
dren, 80 horses, and ten ,dogs, partook of the

water.

It is interesting to reﬂect on the probability,
that a large ln'op(‘)rtion of the human lwiugs who
thus slaked their thirst, were deterred from “ tak-
ing into their mouths an enemy, to steal away

their senses.”
REFRIGERATING CARS.

On the 91st of October last, at a meeting of the H
Executive Committee of the Society, the President
called the attention of the Committee to the project
of Mr. A. S. Lyman, the .inventor of a Refrigerating
Car, whereby dressed meat can be brought from
the Prairies, in lieu of the present mode of trans-
porting live animals, whereby they so greatly suffer,
and the ﬂesh is so dangerously deteriorated for

human food.

Whereupon it was, Resolved, That the Execu-
tive Committee highly approve of the plan pro-
posed. by the inventor, and recommend the same to
the favorable consideration of the Public, both
upon. humanitarian and pecuniary grounds; and
that this favorable commendation may be certiﬁed
to Mr. Lyman, in aid of his project, in the hope
that the great beneﬁt prOposed thereby may be
attained.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




”3‘43; .; c537,; . :3 . =1, 45:3": urti”. fwmﬁm M” ' '\

I. m3~ma31 .~ ,7

 

7 h"? l :

The Secretar , regarding this subject as of the '
highest importance to the Public, in a sanitary, at
well as humane sense, has thought proper to quote i
more in detail from the published exhibit of the
Patentee: ’

q ‘!

 

“The intention of the Company is to purchase the Cattle, Sheep and <7 i‘
Poultry, at the farms where they are raised, to slaughter them in a
quiet and healthful condition, and to deliver the same to the con—
Sumers of this and other cities; whereas Cattle that are brought ~'
alive from the Far West, being closely packed in cars from eight to ' 'y "-
ten days, half starved, and without rest or sleep, are, on their arrival,
in a feverish condition and totally unﬁt for food.

 

 

 

“Some of the principal butchers of this city say that the blood of
these animals, if fed to hogs, will, in a few weeks at longest, kill
them; but the butchers in the country say that blood from Cattle is
the best "00d for hogs; worth more than the same measure of new
milk from cows. Both are undoubtedly correct, one speaking of the
blood of feverish Cattle, the other of that from Cattle‘slaughtered
near where they are fattened’ and while in a healthful condition.

 

 

“If the blood of these Cattle sufem’ng from fever will kill hogs, what
eﬁ'eet must the juices of their flesh have upon the human system .9

“ We do not say this disparagingly of the butchers, for they have '
undoubtedly availed themselves of the best, and indeed the only means
heretofore offered for supplying meats, and will no doubt patronize 1,"
this plan so soon as their wants can be supplied.

“In a pecuniary point of view, we have an advantage over the live
stock trade of one~half the cost of transportation, they requiring two
cars to bring 32 Steers, whereas we can bring the meat of 32 Steers

in one car. Therefore, if it cost $200 per car for transportation, they
pay $400—we $200.

 

“Professor Horsford, of Harvard University, was requested by the
Subsistence Department to investigate the subject of furnishing live
Cattle to the United States Army, and on page 8 of his report re-
marks, “Cattle weighing 1,500 pounds on the hoof, at Chicago, are
estimated to lose 200 pounds of dressed meat by transportation in
the cars to Boston, and but little less to New York.” But call the
loss 100 pounds per steer, the live stock trade pay freight on 3,200

 

 

 

 




— 1’— 1 ‘ :-H.,.‘ ».. ._,.

 

 

 

 

One of the Society’s

Founta

'1

11s at Union Square,

 

 

~ HW“H———.‘

// / / ‘/ ﬂ / ,\,m_

_r_. ‘1‘ ‘ ¥

’Eé? L?-

__ ‘

. ﬂaw/W4, -‘ "I .V' V"
‘ ".é' . ‘, . 3““
; A V" “ 3:1: /’ ‘ ‘ v ’

AIL/L

“.4. V

 

\ xv! ;, ‘
«LI/1 1
l n
'I

2".“ In;

I'
,
”v

V,,

I:
,////l

. I
4;. r,

w— ~
”A “jg";

 

 

 

 

I)!"

‘JV/ill'lfj/l

 

 

 

 

 

, Av...

 

 




 

 

 

,, efﬂap
H

8

pounds lost by shrinkage in transporting 32 steers, amounting, at
the above quoted rate, to $32. Besides this, the loss of 3,200 pounds .
{of meat by shrinkage, at 12 cents per pound, amounts to $384.

W

SYNOPSIS.
COST on ~BRlNGrlNG ALIVE.

”freight on two car—loads, or 32 Steers, . . . . . $400
“ on 3,200 pounds lost by shrinkage, . . . . . 32
Value of 3,200 pounds meat lost “ at 12 cents per pound, 384
Driving, yarding, feed and commission, . . . . . 100

Total, . . . o . $976

,_———--

BY REFRIGERATING CARS.

Freight on 32 Steers, . . . . . . . . $200
Ice, . . . . . . . . . . .. . . 10
Weighing, delivery and commission, . . . . . 50

Total, . . . . ‘. $260
Actual saving by Refrigerating Cars, . . $710

*‘ The above is only the saving over the old mode of bringing Cattle
alive, in addition to which we have the proﬁts of the drovers and the
middle—men to add to our income.

“But to be far within all reasonable expectation, estimate our in-
come on the saving alone and call it but $500 per car—load in-
stead of $716. As a car will make two trips a month, we have
an income of $12,000 per car a year, or $144,000 a year on 12 cars,
the number we intend to put in operation at ﬁrst.

“ It may be said that there is no limit to the business; the records
show that the single State of Illinois during the last year fur-
nished 165,287 Cattle, that is an average of 3,176 head per week
to the markets of this city. Cars will be built as fast as the
business can be systematized.

Signed, “A. S. LYMAN, Patontee.”

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

9
THE PRESgu

To this great promoter of civilization and pros
gress, the Society ow‘es a deep gratitude, for the aid
it has so generously extended to it, in the prosecu-x
tion of its labors, and the forbearance it has man"
ifested toward its ofﬁcers in the discharge of duties,
based on an idea, as yet too novel for general apﬁ
preciation and approval. Not only have the cola
umns of the dailies been open gratuitously for
the promulgation of our just and compassionate
appeals, but those unequalled Illustrated Weeklies
published by Frank Leslie, Esq, and the Messra
Harper, have lent their artistic delineations, to inn
press the public mind With the charming attributes
of mercy.

THE METROPOLITAN POLICE FORCE.

The seventh section of the Charter of the Society“
reads thus : ‘

SEC. 7. The police force of the city of New York, as Well as of all
other places Where police organizations exist, shall, as occasion may
require, aid the Society, its members or agents, in the enforcement of
all laws which are now, or may hereafter be, enacted for the protection
of dumb animals.

No higher encomium could be passed on this ad-v
mirably administered engine of order and security
in society, than to say that the foregoing injunction
has been promptly and faithfully carried out.

THE JUDICIARY"

It is manifest to even the least reflecting, that
the most wholesome laws possess value even less

 

 

 




“‘—

 

 

'10
than blank ”paper, unless they be interpreted and

administered in the spirit, as well as letter of their
(conception.

It becomes the gratifying duty and privilege of”
the Secretary, to bear testimony to the exalted
ability, justice, and humanity, which have generally
characterized the decisions of all magistrates, before
Whom the complaints of the Society have been pre
ferred. ‘

HON. A. OAKEY HALL.

To this learned and courteous gentleman, in his
capacity of District Attorney, the cause, the Soci»

ety, and its President, are indebted for important .

counsel and assistance.

SHEEP AND CALVESa

In our last report, mention was made of the s’uCa
cess of our efforts in the prevention of cruelty. to
these animals, in their mode of transportation about
this city. So far as the metropolis is concerned, no
attempt has been made during the year to renew
the former barbarities, but it is to be regretted
that the abominable practice still continues in other
parts of the State, Where the authority of the So~
ciety cannot be so easily carried out as in this city.

OMNIBUS COMPANIES.

The Society has again to record, With much sat-
isfaction, the conduct of the proprietors of certain

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




     
   
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
    
   

III

omnibus lines in this city, in regard to their hit ‘
mane consideration for their horses.

‘ During the past winter, one of the most severe
l _ on record, attention Was called to the sufferings of ,
/ the horses, and a recommendation was made to all i
/ the different lines to double their teams ; and those
; proprietors who were considerate enough to ac- (*
quiesce in the suggestion, received the acknowl-
edgment of the Society in the following notice,
published in several of the daily papers.

 

," “The Fifth avenue and. Fulton Ferry line,
I “The Broadway and Twenty-third street line,
“The Broadway and Second street line, *~

“The Broadway and Eighth street line.

 

 

“The Society would respectfully suggest to every ' s:

i citizen, the propriety of making it a rule, to examine ‘. *
‘ the condition of the animal or animals he is about i
to employ, and exercise a merciful discretion, ere
< r entering avehicle already sufﬁciently loaded.

“Coal dealers and cartmen generally should re—
, member the condition of the streets in the winter
., 1,; ‘ season, and load lightly.” '

 

cn'v RAILROADS. 15

While the Railroad Companies generally have
acceded to the requests of the Society, to repri‘
mand, or dismiss, such of their drivers as were

  

 

 

 




F—W-vz— , .,-, ,-___

- «w-.._r_,_.v\

r . _ -. ALQMW.» n. ah =. 1:.

 

12

found abusing their horses, nevertheless the most
‘ «offensive feature, that of overloading cars, still re'
mains unchanged. 'While carmen and teamsters
have been uniformly punished for overloading, it is
with deep regret that the Society ﬁnds its efforts
to reform rendered abortive, to prevent the shame-
ful practice on the part of Railroad Companies.

No subject has hitherto presented itself fer the
consideration and action of this Society, involving
so many phases of discomforture and danger to the
PubliC, as well as cruelty to that noblest cf the
lower animals, the Horse, as the one heading this
Section of the‘present report.

 

 

The Press, along with citizens of almost every
degree of social life, have continuously appealed to
the ofﬁcers of this Society, to interpose in some
way, for the reform of these formidable evils; .not
knowing how zealously they had been striving
during the past year at Albany, through the in-
strumentality of wholesome legislation, and legal
protection here in New York, to effect this cher-
ished purpose of our citizens.

; As you are aware, a bill was prepared by your
Society, and at the session of the Legislature of 1867,
presented in person by the President, to that body,
embracing all that was desired to extend protection
to man and beast; but after a lengthy conference
with the Judiciary Committee of the Senate, he was .
assured; that any such bill—~to wit, giving a seat to

 

 

 

 

 




    
  

153'

 
 

every passenger in a street car, or fixing a limit to»
a car-load, was simply impossible—and the bill:
was promptly consigned. to; the usual receptacle for
Waste paper!

 
   
   
    
 

Not discouraged, however, it was determined to.»
abate these evils, through the application of exist-in V
ing laws, and accordingly, on the 2d of January
‘ last, the Resident caused the arrest of a driver and? . ;
g ‘ conductor, of one of the Bleecker and Elm street,
1 1 line of cars. ' ‘

 
 
      
   
 

The defendants having demanded a jury trial,
they were regularly indicted by the Grand Jury;
and on the 7th, of February were tried; at the Court; , A,
o J of General; Sessions,ibefore Recorder Hackett, and f"
after a. charge to; the Jury by His Honor, replete
with intelligent and humane justice, _ were foundi
guilty,,and¢a‘ sentenced to pay a ﬁne: of $250, each.

  
      
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  

 

 

 

To this, an appeal was taken to the Supreme
Court, and now. awaits a decision on. the part of p 5
that body. <

In the mean time, however, 1t was deemed proper”
to: continue to» prefer complaints against parties,
guilty of cruel and excessive overloading of their?
cars ;: and on the evening of the 131th. of February l
a: Third Avenue car being seem, carrying 40 persons. 1
on the platforms and? 6,0 inside, the arrest of the» l
driver and conductor was promptly effected... l

 

To drag this prodigious load, which, with the:

 
 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 




,.,
, /..,
, /
‘ / /

// ,

,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

,  MjE.“ ML”: - -‘

:mmm. .,_.‘E':LJIIHHHII==
Ream VleW of an Overloaded Stl eat Railroad Car.
‘Wﬁ.’ ﬂ \, A

 

 

 

~~t

 

 




  

.-

I

at

 

 

14

car, is estimated to have weighed 21,0001bs—up the
severe grade existing between 22d and 36th street
—-there were but two feeble horses, and when
stopped, one of them was found to be so distressed,
that its breathing might be heard the distance of a

block.

On the complaint of Mr. A. H. Campbell, a most
zealous laborer in the cause of Brute Protection,
this case was brought before the Court of Special
Sessions on the 15th of February; when after a
motion of the Counsel of the R. R. Co., the Justices
presiding decided not to entertain any such cases,
until the appeal before alluded to had been passed
upon.

1.

This temporary suspension of the action of the
Society, in so far as it relates to car overloading,
being regarded as of vast public importance, it is
deemed proper to give the above detailed account
of the case, along with the following accurate re-
port from the News.

OVERCROWDING CARS.

“ At a recent trial in the General Sessions, where a conductor of the
Bleecker Street Railroad was charged with overcrowding his car, the
defendant was ﬁned $250. The conductor has, since that decision was
rendered, appealed his case to the General’ Term. Pending that appeal,
the Justices of this Court declined to try any charges of cruelty to ani-
mals by the conductors of railroads, where the charge is overcrowding.
Yesterday, the conductor and driver of a Third Avenue car were
charged with driving an overcrowded car. Counsel for defendants

' moved a postponement of the case, and the motion was granted. The

Court said that, in all cases wherein there was a civil action pending,
the criminal, was laid aside till the judgment in the civil suit had been
rendered.”

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

15
Mr. Biurnt—Thi‘s is not a civil action.
Justice Bowling—It assumes that character.
Mr. Blunt—I don’t think it does.

Justice Bowling—It has gone from the Sessions to the Supreme Court.

M72 Beach—This is a charge of overloading a car—one hundred per~
sons in a car drawn by two horses. This Court has decided that a,
certain amount of weight on a cart or truck is overloading it. In this

case the car was overloaded for two horses, and one of them was in an.

unﬁt condition to work:

Justice Bowling—The crowding of cars is a difﬁcult thing to prevent,
.Zlfr. Remit—By that means the horses sometimes. drop down dead

Justice Dowiing—That is according to circumstances. Is there any
complaint or action here, or charge that horses were disabled, or-
killed, or beaten?

M Bcrgh—J can’t say; but they were in great suffering from this
load. One of the horses you could hear breathing more than a block

oﬁ‘.

J usticc Bowling—Was it the intention of the Legislature to refer to
cars when they passed this law?

Mr. Bench—Certainly; it refers to overloading.

Justice Bowling—VVe say a boat or a car is overloaded—that wouldn’t
be cruelty where steam is applied.

Mr. Bergh—It would be unnecessary for the Legislature ; the [law is
as to animals.

Justice Bowling—This is. a question that has assumed a new and
peculiar phase.

Mi”. Bergh—You have decided it before in precisely similar cases, as
to overcrowding cars.

' J usticc Bowling—Not on cars. You want to getthe superintendents.

Mr. Blunt—In that case tried in the General Sessions, the Recorder
merely expressed his opinion on the subject.

 




 

rp—m

 

 

 

”a..- <d.....\,\ a» < ”mannm’... . , . _

// / 1,1 /
1 ’% //’3 W
MI)” .I' z:
I / "/

i f L"
h‘" — ‘ “$75 ,I
H’ " £247

/
-— ' 77:, 5
4"” A

liliﬂgj' 1
_ ‘ ///
/

”If“!

/“5_,/)'l
‘ ///
///_

f /
I

7- 2

I
’/

l ,'
‘ I
[7
, m4:

/%

”a
( l

/
/

, "C17,: {////%///Awgwag )3,
,— ,y/ ,/ , (é

'11,], M
, ., N” V . ‘ ’
WWI/54! .

‘1

m

 

:27 ///

'ty.

IS Cl

9

A Dog-ﬁght, at a noted Pit, in th

 




 

 

 

 

 

17

fact, that he was dying of an overload of human
beings, and not of pig iron, would ﬁnd his sufferings
mitigated by the knowledge?

It is conﬁdently hoped and believed that the
Honorable Judges of the Supreme Court, Will speed.
ily determine this question on the side of compas-
sion to our hard-working servant, the horse.

DOG AND COCK FIGHTS, ETC.

These disgraceful exhibitions, so demoralizing
in all their accompaniments and tendencies, still
continue in the suburbs, but being conducted with
the greatest caution and secrecy here, it becomes dif-.
ﬁcult to detect the offenders. It is. gratifying to
report that all the principal places, Where these bru-
tal exhibitions have ﬂourished in this city and
Brooklyn for many years, are effectually broken
up, through the determined surveillance of the So-

ciety’s agents.

Frank Leslie, Esq., in his Illustrated Paper of
23d December, 1866, has happily illustrated the
arrest, through our instrumentality, of the most
notorious operator in this branch of crime, Which
sketch is here presented.

SLAUGHTERING CATTLE.

The attention of the Society has been often di-
rected to the cruel scenes Which take place in the
slaughter-houses of this city. The modes employ-

 

 




..._
. m,
' ..Kw1azam;n -2“...—

 

 

 

 

18

ed in slaughtering animals, have also received its
serious attention, as the following correspondence
shows. Regarding the Jewish mode of slaughter-
ing as attended with unnecessary cruelty, a circu-
lar letter was addressed by the President to each
of the following Rabbi in this city, viz.: Rev. M.
I. Raphall, Rev. Dr. Adler, and Rev. S. M. Isaacs,

in the following words:

NEW YORK, Nov. 30, 1867.
Rev. S. M. ISAACS.

REV. SIR: I venture to address you on a subject, which relates to
your holy mission on earth—mercy. The manner of slaughtering ani-
mals by butchers of the Hebrew faith is regarded by this Society and
kindred ones throughout the world, as well as the truly humane every-
where, as unnecessarily cruel. The Jewish theory of religion, as appli-
cable to this act, is understood to be that the blood of all animals des-
tined for human food, shall be drained from their bodies at the time of
killing. It is far from the intention or desire of the ofﬁcers of this in
stitution, to do or say aught that may be construed into irreverence or
disrespect for this or any other religious sentiment, of whatever creed
or denomination; and my present purpose is mainly to solicit your
consideration of the subject in its cruel aspects, with a view to ascer-
taining whether this religious injunction could not~ be faithfully ob-
served, and the poor victims of man’s necessities be Spared a large
share of the sufferings they are made to endure; and if so, then through
your religious teaching and authority, assist the compassionate designs
of this Society. At the International Congress held in Paris on the
1st, 2d, 3d, and 4th of August last, the second question debated was,
“ Which is the best mode of slaughtering animals? ” After an exhaus
tive discussion, the delegate from Austria, Dr. Blatin, thus expressed
himself in the French language, which I have exactly translated : “ The
manner employed by the Jews, of cutting the throats (é gorgement)
of oxen destined for food, is frightful ; their spasms and sufferings are
truly terrible ; but, in addition thereto, still another cruelty is inﬂicted,
that of the dislocation of a leg. The Hebrew butcher, before cutting
the throat of the animal, by the tardy movement of a knife drawn
twice across it, namely, back and forth, causes the creature to be sus.
pended by a rope attached to one leg only, whereby a loud noise is al

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

19

ways heard, occasioned by the disjointing of the bones of the limb.”
Without quoting further from this painfully interesting debate, I will
give the resolution adopted by the Congress.

1. This Congress is of the opinion that the best mode of slaughter-
ing animals is by a blow on the head, or by the severance of the spinal
vertebrae—or, what is still better, both.

2. Furthermore the Congress expresses the opinion that all animals,
including calves, sheep, and swine, should be rendered insensible, by
one or both of the foregoing methods, before the throat is cut.

3. As it regards the Israelitish mode of slaughtering, the Congress
would request kindred societies to address themselves to all Synods,
with a View to effecting ameliorations of the cruel methods employed
in certain countries.

4. And the Congress expresses the hope that in public and private
abattoirs, none but skilful persons will be permitted to slaughter animals.

Since it is not pretended that the blood of an animal will not ﬂow
just as freely after insensibility has been produced, cannot the requisi-
tions of the Hebrew faith be conformed with, and a part of the tortures
bf the poor brute, in the act of yielding up its life for the sustenance of
mankind, be spared it? In accordance with the dictates of humanity,
and in deference to the recommendation above cited, I have the honor
to appeal to you for the exercise of your holy prerogatives in causing
the abatement of the unnecessary and horrible cruelties imposed on

dumb, unoﬂ'ending beings—creatures like ourselves, the work of a ‘

merciful Providence, who delighteth not in the suffering of any living

thing. I have the honor to» be, most respectfully, your obedient ser-

vant, HENRY 'BERGH,
President.

To which the following answers and rejoinders
were returned:

NEW YORK, Dec. 4, 1867.
HENRY BERGH, Esq., President, etc.

DEAR SIR: Acknowledging the receipt of your esteemed favor, I
take the earliest Opportunity of replying. Be assured that no one ap-
preciates more highly than I the motives of yourself and your co-labor—
ers in the cause of humanity, and you have necessarily the sympathy
of the Jewish community, who are taught by the law they revere to be

 

 

 




 

 

..'___.__-_—.—————..__-.' ___..I _

20

kind to dumb animals, and have invariably acted in the spirit of Deuters
onomy, 22d chap., and other portions of the Bible treating on the subject.
I can assert, with a degree of pardonable pride, that cruelty to animals
is unknown among professors of Judaism. Confining myself to the
spirit of your letter, if I knew of any unnecessary or horrible cruelty in
the Jewish mode of slaughtering animals, I should be prompt and hap-
py to contribute whatever inﬂuence I possess toward causing its abate-
ment. But the mode of slaughtering animals, according to Jewish law,
is of the most merciful character, and I am unaware and cannot credit
the suspicion that in practice there is any departure from so humane
a. system. The Shochet, as the ofﬁcial employed to slay the animal is
called, must be a man of sterling religious and moral character, well-
versed in the Jewish law, especially applicable to his official duties, as
to killing and examining the animal after death to ascertain that it
is sound, for if the lungs or other parts are diseased, it will be prohib-
ited. This is mercy to the living beings who are permitted by law
to partake of animal food. Before he is licensed, this ofﬁcial must be
examined by a board constituted for that purpose, in his knowledge
of the laws and regulations appertaining to his office, and in sharpen-
ing his knife, which must be kept free from the slightest notch or
roughness of edge. The ox, for example, is thus killed: the hind
legs are tied, two men hold the head, the Shochet or slayer draws
his knife forward across the throat, and withdraws it, the blood ﬂows
freely, and the animal is dead. As for the dislocation of the leg, Dr.
Blatin may have seen it in Austria, but in this latitude it has not oc-
curred. Nor is the noise heard occasioned by the disjointing of the
limb—the rope is not attached to one leg only. If you have been
made aware of any instance of cruelty or unnecessary pain inflicted by
non-proﬁcients in slaughtering, I should like to be informed of particu-
lars. An inquiry similar to yours was made by the British Society for
Preventing Cruelty to Animals several years since, and the conclusion
to which they arrived was, that the Jewish mode of killing is not cruelty
to animals. Perhaps the enclosed copy of an ofﬁcial communication
addressed to the Jewish Rabbi of Lyons, and translated for The Messen—
ger, will afford some light on the subject. Wishing you every success
in the noble cause in which you are engaged, I am, dear Sir, yours re-
spectfully,
S. M. ISAACS.

NEW YORK, Dec. 6, 1867.
REV. S. M. Isaacs.

DEAR SIR: I am profoundly grateful to you for your prompt reply
to the note which I had the honor to address to you on the 30th of

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

21

November last. I have carefully and reSpectfully read and considered
your answer, and I am regretfully compelled to say, that the testimony
of the most reliable Witnesses as to the cruelty of the most atrocious
character, perpetrated by Jewish butchers, in Jewish slaughter-houses,
conﬂicts with that merciful sentiment and belief, which do honor
to your heart and calling. It is this religious and humane conviction
which prompts the utterance on your part of the following honorable
expression, to wit: “ I can assert with a degree of pardonable pride,
that cruelty to animals is unknown among professors of Judaism.” I
purposely abstain from further reﬂection on this subject, preferring
to await the result of certain commitments at present under investiga
tion by the legal authorities, and in the mean time beg your indulgence
with me for renewing the inquiry, contained in my note, and which
mainly motived my troubling you, namely : “ Cannot the requisitions
of the Hebrew faith be conformed with, and a part of the tortures of
poor brutes be Spared them, by the employment of some means produCe
ing insensibility, such as a skilful blow on the head or otherwise ‘2”,

I am, Sir, your most obedient Servant,
HENRY BERGH.

. NEW YORK, December 11, 1867.
HENRY BERGH, Esq.

DEAR SIR: In answer to your esteemed favor of the 6th, permit me
to state, that appreciating the noble motives which prompt you in
your effort to preVent cruelty to animals, I Was perSuaded to leave my
ofﬁce and my many duties yesterday, and proceed to the eastern section
of our city to judge for mySelf whether the atrocious acts complained
of haVe any existence, and if so, to co operate with you in employing
all the means in my power to mitigate and correct the evils, holding
as I do, the opinion that it is man’ s duty to ameliorate the condition of
every thing that hath life. It affords me the utmost satisfaction to
state, as it must doubtleSs be comforting to you to know, that of sev-
eral oxen slaughtered while I was present, at different slauglitephouses,
the time elapsing from the bringing the animal to the house and the
death, in no instance exceeded ﬁve minutes. I detected no cruelty,
but the cutter actually exhibited tenderness, the ox did not even see
the knife intended to deprive him of life. If any butcher has exhibited
any atrocious cruelty to the dumb animal I Would be the last to screen
him, for he deserves to be punished. As respects your recommenda-
tion to render the animal insensible, ﬁrst by knocking them on the
head, and then to cause the blood to ooze out, it is too complex a sub-
ject to be dismissed in this note. I am prepared, however, to demon-

   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
 
   
  
 
 
 
  
   
  
  

 

        
    
    
      

 




 

 

’x; ’ ///
" - _ j//

, ‘ r I ,y . _
'C?¢’J,;;.-;F b11170

 

 

INSTANTANEOUS METHOD OF SLAUGHTERING CATTLE AT THE COMMUNIPAW ABATTOIB.

 

 

:41 w»

 

 

 

\
\
N
\\
_‘\
.\
\.

I/i'
Mi

’7 ' —* —"" HINDI]

 




22 ' -

 

strate the superiority of the Jewish mode of killing animals. Recurring
to my former letter, I would observe that our saints of antiquity compiled
3 our laws for slaughtering and examining animals killed for food, in the
‘ Spirit of the Bible as their guide——that Book which forbids man to
take a dam with her young, so that she may not see her offspring thus
bereft of freedom, which will not permit an ex to be muzzled when
treading out the corn—awhich consults eVen inanimate nature, and bids
'us spare the trees in a hostile city—ssuch ordinances must imbue us with
, " ,‘ kindness and affection, not only for all human beings, but for the feel-
' ‘ / _ {TY ings even of the lovver animals. I hope, my dear sir, that my remarks
may have some inﬂuence in manifesting to you that our mode of kil»
ling does not involve unnecessary cruelty. And I trust that your Selfs
imposed task of helping those who cannot help themselves, may meet
with entire success. I desire to co-operate with you in so noble an em—
ployment, and if you ﬁnd that individuals haVe, in the class of cases to
which you call my attention, committed the crime of cruelty, I should
not be less pleased than yourself to ﬁnd brutality punished. I am,
dear Sir, respectfully yours,

 

- -‘-9' an .n

, s. M. ISAACS.

Please enter me among your members, and let me have a copy of
the laws of the Society.

 

 

NEW YORK, Dec. 18, 1867.
Rev. S. M. ISAACS.

DEAR SIR : Your obliging reply to my note of the 6th of December
is before me, wherein you inform me, that appreciating the noble mo
,3 tives of this Society, you visited several Israelitish slaughter-houses, and
I, that of several oxen which you saw killed while you were present, the
time elapsing from bringing the animal to the 1101180, and the death, in
no instance exceeded ﬁve minutes. You will pardon me, I am sure, for
reminding you of a fact which cannot have escaped your apprehension,
to Wit : that what you saw at those places Was done with an entire con—
Sciousness on the part of the butcher of the preSence of a distinguished
Rabbi of the Hebrew Church. I feel that I have already trespassed too
, l greatly on your indulgence, and there remains for me but to thank
you for your courtesy, and to express the regret I experience, that, for
reasons which remain uneXplained, you have not thought it advisable
to satisfy the inquiry, which I regarded as important to make, touch-
ing the existence of any religious disability on the part of Jewish
butchers to occasion insensibility before killing. Gratefully welcoming

 

 

 

 

.m -'
l
v
\

 

 

 

 

 

 

U l l I III I !’/////////l ////////////////////////////////////////////m, I'll/W}; ~//;’/3/.-
W“-




L.¢‘._.~ n—n—n» ...-_v_.s.—Ax.r -- 4-- -wﬁ,

24
VIVISECTION.

 

 

 

4, If the Society has not realized all that humanity
dictates in the suppression of living dissections,
there exists ample cause for congratulation, at the
l: great modiﬁcations which have resulted from its
, efforts in that direction. The Hospitals continue
l l to be Visited by our agents, and no operation has
lately been noticed by them Without the employ- l
l ment of an anaesthetic. It is not perhaps out of . l
place to remark here, that the recent discovery of p
a new agent producing insensibility, :alled Bi-
chloride of Methyline, which is regarded by scien-
tiﬁc men as superior to any heretofore in use, and
possessing the additional recommendation of cheap-
; , mess, may yet become popular, and even useful, as
an assistant in the necessary destruction of animal

* life. ’;

 

The action of the Society in the matter of Vivi-
sections, may be better illustrated by a letter re-
ceived from one of the chief operating surgeons of
r" ‘ " Bellevue Hospital, to whom our President had oc-
casion to address a letter in relation thereto. .

 

{ i
‘ 4mm

“ In nearly all my experiments I use ether, and in the few in which
it is not employed, the operations are either instantaneous, or the Sac-
cess of the experiment would be seriously interfered with by an agent
of that kind. I do not conceive that there is any inhumanity in em-
_ ploying animals otherwise useless for the purposes which I do; and I
. think you will agree with me that scientiﬁc men are the only proper

judges of the necessity and expediency of these experiments.
“ If you will take the trouble to call upon me at the College, I will,
with pleasure, give you an explanation of all my experiments habitu-
{' ally performed before my classes as far as I can. I should be glad to

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   




 

25

have you sympathize with my labors, the objects of which you do not
seem to correctly appreciate, as heartily as I do with yours.

“ Yours respectfully,

(Signed) “A. FLINT, JR.”

It is "unnecessary for the Secretary to say, that
Dr. Flint’s humanity, in regarding any of God’s
creatures as useless for any other purpose than to
furnish material for the scalpel of the surgeon, is
at variance with that of the members of this Soci-
ety, and that we disagree with him “that scientiﬁc
men are the only proporjudgos of the necessity and
expediency” of these fearful and prolonged torn
tures, continually repeated on unresistinganimals;
more especially, as the most learned and distin-
guished physiologists of the world have pro«
nounced them useless.

SWELL MELK CASES.‘

On the 23d of February, 1867, this Society
caused the arrest of one Morris Phelan, keeper of a
cow-stable in Williamsburg, for cruelly conﬁning
cows for several months at a time without sufﬁci?
ent food, light, air, or exercise, thereby engender-
ing disease and suffering to an extreme degree,
(ln the 1st, 7th, 14th and 18th of March following,
the case was minutely inquired into before Justice

CornWell, and by him sent to the Grand Jury, and '

on the 2hth June last, a true bill of indictment was
found by that body against Phelan. Our Society
then produced, and is still prepared to furnish

_ «scroll .

 

<‘-?-‘~..._‘" _ _ __

_,4 _‘—’_——-‘ K‘:." _r _i

 

 




 

 

o

 

 

 

. ,QHM Wat-nNW—‘v—y.» ., 4“- — .,,_

26

most positive and scientiﬁc testimony tending to a
conviction of the defendant, for this outrageous Via
olation of the rights of man and beast, whenever
the District Attorney shall order the case to trial.
The matter has been repeatedly. and earnestly
pressed by our President on the attention of Dis-
trict Attorney Morris, during the past eight or
nine months, though, for reasons unknown to the
Society, the case remains undisposed of.

On the same day, the arrest of Charles Rogers
Was effected on a similar charge, and, likewise,
awaits the action of the District Attorney, Morris.

This prolonged delay on the part of a high
ofﬁcial, to bring these ﬂagrant cases of cruelty to
trial, is, to say the least, Very extraordinary; more
especially as the Public Prosecutor was heard to
say, on the examination of Phelan, that some three
hundred infants are yearly sacriﬁced. by the use of
the milk of said animals.

Cattle Yards.

This is another subject for profound solicitude
and regret. It is not the intention of the Secre-
tary to review the dreadful sufferings inﬂicted on
animals brought to this market for human food, by
reason of the negligence, indifference and meditated
cruelty of Railroad Directors andAgents, in their
transportations; forming a degree of heartless
turpitude, too monstrous for belief; but only cona
ﬁning himself to a brief allusion to that portion of

_._...—-—r——:., . . . , -‘
.- V... W,M,ipy——..—-— v..._=nmx,-v-W:.- , ,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

27

their prolonged miseries, associated with their conv
ﬁnement in the great depots of this city. It has
been the habit of the President to visit these places
during the past winter, choosing the most inclement
days for so doing. On several occasions, cattle
were found, in nearly all of the yards, but notably
so at One Hundredth street, near the Third avenue.
At this place, which is situated upon an elevated
part of the suburbs, wholly exposed to the north
and west, and .unprovided with the least shelter
or protection of any sort, were hundreds of animals,
sometimes having a thick crust, which having fallen
upon them in fOrm of snow, had by reason of the
temperature of their bodies, or a drizzling rain, fold
lowed by a sudden fall in the mercury, become a
coat of ice! Here, exposed to the blasts of the
winter, were those miserable creatures—the pas-

‘ sive instruments of man’s cupidity and cruelty

w—kept for many days, stingily supplied with:
a little hay ; presenting a spectacle from which the
Christian, or simple humanitarian, would sorrow~
fully turn, with apainful conviction of the distance
which yet exists between ourselves, and that real
civilization, of which this generation boasts, To
witness this deliberate cruelty, and not make an
effort for its suppression, would be a reproach on
your Society, too onerous for endurance, Accord-
ingly, a. complaint was preferred against the pro-
'prietors of these yards, and the case came up for
examination, before Justice Connolly; but although

the Society, aided by the legal skill of Mr. Geo,

 

   
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

‘r !

 

 




r\

 

 

 

28

WV. Blunt, Assistant District Attorney—the de- .
fendants, supported by a crowd of drovers and
others, crushed out all humane opposition, and
proved to the satisfaction of themselves, and all the
enemies of the brute creation, that there was not
only no cruelty in the foregoing treatment, but that
the creatures in question positively preferred this
bleak exposure, to the comfortable shed or barn.

It is worthy of note, however, that the defen~
dants deemed their pecuniary interests sufficiently
jeopardize, to warrant their employing the most
‘(listinguished counsel, in the person of the late

Secretary of State, the Hon. Chauncey M. Depew.

In vain our President pleaded, that dealers in
wood, iron, and lignum vitae, regard it essential to
protect the same from the weather, but, it was of
no use—the ﬁat went forth to the poor brute——
“you must suffer yet awhile, until the sentiment
of mercy, impartial and indiscriminate, shall be
recognized as the right of every living thing.”

. It is an encouraging fact, however, to note, that
in the present, as well as all other cases where
failure, in the form of legal conviction, has fol-
lowed our efforts, that a moral effect results there-
from, by directing the thoughts of the negligent
and indifferent to the subject, and ends in effecting,
however tardily, the very reforms sought for.
The following paragraph taken from a daily paper,
aptly illustrates the point:

_,_i,_w_._..._ W ..,.~M ' 7 - - - - A 3 gang..—

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




(#8

29

“A NEW MILCH-Cow MARKET.—-The proprietors of the ”National
Drove Yards,’ One Hundredth street and Third avenue, have just com-
pleted a commodious and convenient building one hundred feet long
by forty feet wide, for the accommodation of dealers in milch cows.
The joiner work is done in a neat and substantial manner; and the
spacious roof is covered with plastic slate, which is equivalent to one
unbroken piece of Vermont slate over the entire roof. The interior
arrangement speaks emphatically of the humane provision which has
been made for the comfort of dumb brutes, when exposed for sale,
during cold and stormy weather. From one end of the building to the
other", there is a broad passage used as a feeding apartment, about four-
teen feet wide. On each side is a row of stalls where every cow can
stand in a comfortable place, and feed at a manger; or lie down at
pleasure, and enjoy rumination and quiet rest. A broad space is pron
vided in the rear of the cows, so that dealers can pass behind as well as:
in front of every animal. Heretofore, cows that were ofered for sale,
were conﬁned in open yards, or tied to posts, where they were exposed to

”pelttng storms and inclement weather. If the market be dull and the
sellers prefer to keep their cows for better prices, they have the satis-
factory assurance that their animals are in comfortable quarters, where
they will not s-uﬁ'er from cruel exposure to wet and cold.”

 

 

Legislation.

Early in the session of 1868, the Society pre-
sented a bill to the Legislature of this State, con~
taining fourteen sections, which experience suggests
ed as essential to the more perfect execution of its:
humane purposes. The President appeared before
the Judiciary Committee of the Assembly, and ex-
plained the nature of its provisions ; a brief outline
of which is here appended; but after a tedious de-
lay, the bill was reported to the House, shorn of
ten of its. sections, and those of the highest Vital I
and moral importance to the community !

Section 1st. Requiring troughs around cattle
cars to be ﬁlled with water three times each twem
ty-four hours

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




21’" Y

,‘A,

 

 

 

30

§ 2d. Requiring that all animals be slaughv
tered, away from public View.

§ 3d. Requiring that Butchers shall kill all -
animals within forty-eight hours after reaching
abattoirs; and in meantime provided with shelter,
food and water; and all dumb creatures to be
killed by a blow on the head; when not forbidden
by the religion of the butcher, as in the case of the
Jews. '

§ 4th. Appointing Inspectors of the sanitary
condition of all animals destined for human food.

§ 5th. Forbidding the employment or presence
of children in slaughter-houses, under thirteen
years of age.

§ 6th. Requiring all cattle conﬁned in yards
and elsewhere to be sheltered.

§ 7th. ,Limiting load of a horseweighing 1000
to 2000 lbs: and in this proportion to animals of
lesser weight.

§ 8th. Forbidding the throwing of salt and
saltpetre on streets and roads.

§ 9th. Forbidding heavily loaded vehicles from

being driven over a walk.
§ 10th. Mode of making complaint.

§ 11th. Requiring that the act for the preser-

 

 

 

 

 




 

1.-.
L ,

3‘2

“ We are informed and believe that the purpose Of this ﬁrm is to
slaughter diseased sheep purchased of the farmers at a nominal price,
and dispose of the products in the following manner :

“ The hind-quarters of the sheep are to be sent to New York, the fore-
quarters are to be steamed and pressed for the tallow, and the residue
fed to hogs. The tongues and livers are to be sold in Rochester.
The pelts will go into market where they can be sold to advantage.

“ The livers of those diseased sheep are to be worked into sausages,
and the tongues sold to saloon-keepers and at the hotels.

“This ﬁrm has already purchased sundry lots of sheep for the
slaughter-house. They took one lot of Mr. Purdy, of Livonia, for
which they paid only sixty-two cents per head. Some of these sheep
have the “ sca ” so badly that they cannot stand upon their feet This
is only a sample ﬂock of the many that will‘be slaughtered. This
business enterprise must be stopped by some process. We are told
that the people of the vicinity where the slaughter—house is being
erected, are well aware of the design of the owners, yet it has caused
no sensation there. At least, we do not hear that any measures have
been taken to stop the proceeding.”

Also, by the following extract from a Brooklyn,
N. Y., paper:

“A BUTCHER CONVICTED FOR SELLING DISEASED MEAT—Henry
Gilmore, a German butcher, was arrested on a charge of Offering for
sale a quantity of diseased meat. The accused was taken before Justice
Cornwell, this morning, when he was convicted of the offence and ﬁned
ﬁfty dollars. During the last year, ollicer VValdron, who made the
arrest, has seized eleven thousand pounds of diseased meat in Brooklyn,
and has had thirty butchers convicted for offering such meat for sale
from their stalls.”

Also, from the following statistics furnished us

by Capt. Hedden, of the Metropolitan Police
Force, 20th Precinct:
METROPOLITAN POLICE DISTRICT,
PRECINCT NO. 20,
NEW YORK, May 7, 1868.

J. MUDIE, ESQ,

Chief Clerk, American Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals,
Sir,
During the year ending April 80, 1868, there were received at the

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

33

Depot of the Contractors for removing Dead Animals, 850., from the
City, the following quantities of Meat, &c., which had been seized by
the Police Department, as unﬁt for food, viz.:

DRESSED MEAT.——Beef, 44,621 lbs.
“ “ Mutton, 54,831 lbs.

“ “ Veal, 45,824 lbs.

“ “ Fish, 116,520 lbs.

“ “ Poultry, 10,345 lbs.

“ . “ Pork, ' 3,767 lbs.
Eggs, 20 barrels.

Number of animals which had been brought to the City for food,
but had died, sickened, or had been injured while on cars or boats, and
disposed of as above:

Bullocks and Cows, 135
Calves, 266
Hogs, 256

The number of animals lost in this way has been less than in former
years; and I think that, by a proper enforcement of the laws regulat-
ing the transportation of animals on railroads, &c., nearly all of the
loss and suffering which attend the death of these animals could be
prevented. It is said that many animals that are found sick or dead in
the cars that bring live stock over the New Jersey roads (including the
Erie), are taken out on the Jersey side and dressed for food, as it is
known that if they are brought over the river, they Will be a total loss:
to the owner.

Respectfully,
HENRY HEDDEN,

Capt. 20th Precinct.

Among the curiosities of modern Legislation,
the following may also, be aptly adduced. The
assumption on the part of City Railroad Directors
to bank up the snow on both sides of the streets
through which they run their cars, elicited the op-
position of‘merchants and others who are virtually

"up. . _, . ~1r~»'-‘ ,—,.,.—.

—~,_._‘.v__.~v ‘m—wﬂ—uwv ¢Wr~iw ﬁr‘i'tnm “ *"r‘f‘ "" 9W"""T,TIW ' .‘u 'n «um h" h" "’;-»;,«‘l:‘. l"




 

 

 

~ $9,“.st £~5¢aﬁum ._. .-

S—L

debarred from the use of the streets before their
doors; and a Bill was introduced, forbidding the
practice, and appointing Inspectors, at three or four
thousand dollars per annum, each; but, believing
that this duty could be more effectually and faith-
fully performed by this Society, gratuitously, the
following letter was addressed to the Speaker of
the Assembly, and it is thought this attempt at
economy killed the project, for it was never heard
of afterwards. .

NEW YORK, March 4, 1868.
WILLIAM HITCHMAN, Esq., Speaker, eta, Albany, N. Y.

SIR: With profound satisfaction, I have seen a bill introduced and
promptly put to a third reading in the Assembly: preventing street
railroads in New York from obstructing locomotion in the streets
thereof, and imposing a ﬁne for so doing, and appointing superinten—
dents at the same salaries that similar oilicials receive in the Street
Commissioner’s ofﬁce. I desire to ask a modiﬁcation of that part of the
bill relating to superintendents.

The Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals was chartered
by the Legislature to watch over and protect brute creatures from

. cruelty; and regarding this practice of banking up the sides of the

streets with snow, as a proliﬁc source of suffering to horses, as well as
a great impediment in the way of business: I ask reSpectfully, that
said bill be so amended, as to transfer to this Society, the duty of enforc-
ing the law ; which it hereby undertakes by your sanction to perform,
without other compensation than the ﬁnes accruing from infractions of
the statute.

Our oﬁicers being already scattered about the metropolis, this impor-
tant sum of money proposed to be given to superintendents may thus
be saved to the over-taxed citizens thereof, and the work be as well, if
not better, performed by this Society.

I have the honor to berour obedient servant,

' HENRY BERGH, President.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

85
HORSE FLESH.

The use of horse ﬂesh as human food is of an-
cient date, particularly in Germany ; and its re-
vival at the present day, in France and other coun-
tries of Europe, is doubtlessly largely indebted to
the spirit of humanity, which seeks to abridge the
sufferings of the horse, while it utilizes the.
ﬂesh of a creature, known to be the most cleanly
and fastidious of all the lower animals. Prejudice,
mingled perhaps with sentiment, has inﬂuenced
the waste of this enormous product of healthy food ;
for it has been lately demonstrated to be not only
. as nutritious as beef but equally palatable. It is
not the desire of the Secretary to enter into detail
at this time, of all the important considerations as-
sociated with this subject, in an economical, sani-
tary, and humane point of View. But, he deems
it his duty, however, to present to the Society, a
brief notice of the matter in its relations to the
purposes of this Institution.

It is, unfortunately, an aggravation of the mis-
eries of the horse, that the tender care which he re-
ceives during the period of his youth, beauty, and
usefulness, unﬁts him for the vicissitudes which are
almost sure to overtake him, when these qualities
are lost, to wit : in his age, when least able .to en-
dure them. ’ At this moment he is generally sold.
by his unfeeling master, to a service which his pre-
vious care renders cruel in the last degree; and for
the warm stable, healthy food and fodder. are sud-

 

 




 

 

 

86

I

denly substituted exposure, hunger, and inadee
quate labor. Now, it is at this precise time, that
the sentiment of humanity, coupled with the sug-
gestions of eeonomy and health, present their claims
”for the prevention of cruelty, by extinguishing
in death that portion of his existence which would
otherwise be passed in uninterrupted suffering.
Prejudice is the only obstacle to the adoption of a
remedy for the sorrowful spectacles frequently
witnessed, of horses being worked, while the days
of their usefulness are obviously long since passed
and gone. How much more proﬁtable, civilizing,
and humane it would be, were these disabled crea-
tures sold to the butcher, and, after suitable pre-
paration, slaughtered for consumption.

CONGRESS OF PARIS.

The different Societies for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, now existing throughout the
world, having been formally notiﬁed of a conven-
tion appointed to be held at Paris on the 1st, 2d,
and 8d of August last, invited the attendance of
delegates; and in accordance therewith, it is be-
lieved that every organized institution of a kindred
character was represented.

By a resolution of the Executive Committee the
following gentlemen were appointed to attend on
" behalf of this Society, viz. : Messrs. Bellows, Leslie,
and Ruggles; but neither of these gentlemen were
able to be in Paris at the time indicated. In this
untoward dilemma, however, two most able and

p

 

 

 

 

 

 




  

 

 

3’7
Worthy substitutes, Messrs. Cr. W. Sauer, and C. C;
Leigh, volunteered to announce our existence to
the Congress, and, in eloquent and earnest speeches,
proclaimed our title to a place in the foremost
rank of cooperative humanitarians. It is needless
to say that the discussions of the Congress were
replete with practical wisdom, morality, and com-
passion. A large apartment in the Great Expos-
ition was assigned for the exhibition of inventions,
etc, designed to render the lower animals more use-

ful to mankind, and, at, the same time, augment
their protection from cruelty.

O

The 2d and 8d subject's discussed by the Con-
gress, are particularly worthy of note: “ Which are
the best modes of slaughtering cattle for food?”

And, after an interesting debate, the following res0n
lution was adopted :

C
de of slaughtering
y the severance .of the spinal

“ 1. This Congress is of the opinion that the best mo
animals is by a blow on the head, or b
vertebrae, or, What is still better, both.

“2. Furthermore, the Congress expresses the opinion that all animals,
including calves, sheep, and swine, should be rendered insensible, by
one or both of the foregoing methods, before the threat is cut,

“ 3. As it regards the Israelitish mode of slaughtering,
would request kindred societies to address themselVe

with a view to affecting ameliorations of the cruel met
certain countries.

the Congress
s to all Synods,
hod employed in .-

“ 4. And the Congress expresses the hope that in public and private
abattoirs, none but skilful persons will be permitted to slaughter
animals.

“3d. Subject: Which is the best mode of harnessing oxen?

“ The Congress is of the opinion that the ‘independent yoke ’ should
be used; to attain this end, it invites the different Societies to bring it
into conspiduous notice by means of their Reports, and by the members
personally urging its use in their respective countries.”

 

  




 

 

 

 

 

1“!

72:13,; ”A 7‘

. 4}},

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I v
I "\
'1

H!

h
1

"' My}: 2W -w

 

mum“

M
f‘
\

._ .‘c

gr” - u

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

39

acquired during the ﬁrst year of its existence: and
that it now has become a ﬁxed fact—~a real power
in the State for good~a defence for the defence-
less—-—an examplewmoniton—and trusty friend,
alike of man and beast. It is by no means rare to
hear the Society spoken of as the most unequivo-
cal, moral, and practical success, which character-
izes the present era. Born, as it were, amidst the

, jeers and derision of a prejudiced and unreﬂect-

ing community, it has successfully combatted
thoughtless indifference on the one hand; and on
the other, the cruel instincts of the ignorant and
debased. The strong contrast which this. metropolis
bears to other cities of the Union, in its treatment
of animals in the public streets, is a theme of con-
stant comment on the part of travellers. The hand,
which two years ago, grasped a hickory club, and
smote with senseless fury the body of an unresist.
ing creature, today is represented by a slender rod,

'which falls, in form of reasonable chastisement.

Nor, is the brute the only gainer by this reform;
on the contrary, it may be conﬁdently asserted, that
the advantage is on the part of the master, who is
thus taught self-control, and society at large are
also gainers by this subjugation of the demons of
passion and Violence in its midst. Champions of
Mercy are no longer difﬁdent, and all classes of citi-
zens promptly resent a wrong inﬂicted on an unof-
fending brute. The tender sensibilities of woman

shield them——and the authority of men in power and .

position, is manifested in their behalf. The worthy

 

 

 

 




 

v gut—Va;

.MW 43.2w; rmwmt-euagg-g. «S-

40

Chief Magistrate of this great city, Mr. Hoffman,
has not considered it beneath his high position and
character, to appear in a Court of J ustice,‘ to offer
his protest against inhumanity to~ a horse. If
commendation can be grateful to one, for well-
doing, Mr. Archibald H. Campbell, by reason of
his untiring devotion to the cause of humanity,
merits all that can be said.

The increase in the number of practical friends
of the cause, has produced a corresponding increase
in the number of arrests. From 66 in the ﬁrst
year, the convictions in 1867 have risen to 200. A
stronger illustration of the beneﬁcent working of
the Society cannot be conceived, than the follow-
ing incident; when former exhibitions of cruelty
of the same kind are remembered. On the morn-
ing of the 19th of December, which was one of the
coldest of the season, a gentleman entered the ofﬁce
of the Society, for the purpose, as he said, of fur-
nishing evidence of a peculiar character, as to the
inﬂuence of the Institution. He had just seen a
calf carried along in a butcher’s cart, standing free
and unfettered, and its body protected from the
cold by a blanket !

This, however, is but one, out of innumerable
instances, which might be cited of the wholesome
inﬂuence and restraint which it exercises locally,
and by example elsewhere. The great State of
Massachusetts has just honored herself and us, by
founding an Institution within that Commonwealth,
modelled after our own; and like the State of

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

41

Pennsylvania has adopted the tender, and expres-
sive device of our shield. The Secretary but utters
the universal sentiment of all the members, when
he hopes that the time is not very remote, when
this same merciful ensign, will have an abiding
place, in every State of the Union. The gentle
mission of woman on earth has been exercised
conspicuously, in the part which three ladies have
taken in the founding of kindred Societies in our
country. To Mrs. Mary E. Lord, of Buffalo; Mrs.
William Appleton, of Boston; and Mrs. Caroline
E. White, of Philadelphia, are to be attributed the
early initiation of, and charming devotion to the
compassionate idea, which now distinguishes the
respective places of their nativity.

The Secretary is at a loss, to adequately charac-
terize the remarkable energy, perseverance and
practical humanity, of the President of the Massa-
chusetts Society, George T. Angell, Esq. To'him,
and to all such we offer our fraternal greeting.

Respectfully submitted,

N. P. HOSACK,

Secretary.

The following Report from the Treasurer, sub-
mitted in accordance with Chapter XIII. of the By-
Laws, was then read, accepted, and ordered on ﬁle:

 

 




—~ g. ‘ ‘a‘mmuzzc

 

 

r. The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, in account with John B. Murray, Treasurer. gr.

 

 

 

ﬁ/ffi

 

 

 

1868.

May 1. Cash paid out from 1 May, 1867, to 30 April, 1868,

as under——

9 Reoistered U. S. Government Bonds, 1865, 6 per

D

cent., at 104%. . . . . . . $9,427 50
IA Commission. . . . . . 11 25

 

10 Fountains and Cups........
OneYear’s Rent...................
Salaries, ofﬁce.....................
Salaries, detectives................
Printing.........................
Rewards............
Travelling Expenses...............
Stationery........................
OﬂiceExpenses...................
Badges...........................
Postages..........................
Miscellaneous.....................
On hand, in Bank. . . . . $2,091 10
Drawn................ 64 31

___..__——

30/133 75
1 550 00
600 on
1,511 36
335 07
546 50
353 75
138 45
60 37
63 5o
23 oo
59 94
58 51

2,155 41
$17,575 11

 

 

 

 

1867.
May 1.

1868.
May 1.

By Balance from old account. . . .. . . . $2,436 20

By Cash, a‘eceived from 1 May, 1867, to
30 April, 1868, inclusive, ((3 under——

Life Memberships. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10,250 00
Yearly Memberships. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,420 00
Donations........................ 2,223 00
Fines from 1 March, 1867 to 1 March,
1868 1,23073
Interest received from U. S. Trust Co.
for deposit of $1,500,. 3 mos, 1 d. 15 18
/

 

$17,575 11

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

_________’_____—————

The undersigned have examined the above account and ﬁnd it correct.

THOS G- HODGKINS’ iAuolitin/g Committee.

A. K. GARDNER,

1868. May 1. By Balance. . . . . . . . . . . . . .. $2,155 41

13. IE. .Illlrrv 13..n1171313111r,

. (I‘reasurer.

 




 

 

 

 

43
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

The Report, of the Executive Committee was then
read, accepted, adopted, and ordered on

ﬁle.

At a meeting of the Executive Committee, held on
the 2d day of March, 1868, it was

Resolved: That a Committee of three be appointed
on the part of this Committee, to prepare
and submit the Report of the Executive
Committee to the Annual Meeting in May

next.

Whereupon Messrs. Henry Bergh, Wm. McMur-
ray and Oliver H. Perry, were appointed
such Committee.

 

In pursuance of the requirements of Sec. 3, Chap.
6th of the By- Laws of the Society, the
Executive Committee respectfully report,
that their duties as p1escr1bed under Chap.
14th of the By- -LaWs 1s: ——

1. To manage the affairs, property, and funds of
the Society, and to designate a deposit bank for

the Society.

That, under this head, they would respectfully
refer for a detailed statement of the management
of the funds and property of the Society, to the
Report of the Treasurer, to be laid before you at
this meeting; and that the bank of deposit desig-

n a "v mvv .55 a: :1 1X1 ‘

-____,..__.__.——~ -_.-_-’ »\

$1}

 

 

 




'1: v
5

$1,) '

{5‘ .

 

~ﬂ __ _.,,__. --..._ -. ..

4:4

nated by the Committee, for the funds of the So-
ciety, is the National City Bank, of the City of
New York.

2. To make rules for the government of the
ofﬁcers of the Society. '

Under this clause of their instructions, your
Committee have, by sundry special resolutions,
devolved upon the President and Secretary, the
employment of detective ofﬁcers and a clerk, at the
ofﬁce of the Society; and that harmonious action
has been evinced therein.

3. To frame its own By-Laws, and keep a record
of its proceedings.

That the Committee have not deemed it neces-
sary, so far, to frame any special By-Laws for its
government, not having, as yet, felt any necessity
therefor; they have, however, caused a complete
copy of their Records to be kept by the Secretary
of the Society, who, under Chap. 12, of the By-
Laws, is Secretary of each Committee of the So-

ciety.

4. The Committee are required to ﬁx the sala-
ries of employees.

Under this clause, at a meeting held by the EX-

”ecutive Committee 15th November, 1867, it was

13680271662: That the salary of the Clerk of the
Society, be at the rate of one thousand dollars per

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4'5

annum. And at a meeting held 7 th January, 1868,
it was

Resolved: That no salary be allowed or paid to
the President, Vice-Presidents, Secretary, Treasurer,
and Members of the Executive Committee; and at
a special meeting held 17th February, 1868, it was
further '

Resohed: That the pay of the Detectives em-
ployed by the Society should be at the rate of six
hundred and twenty-four dollars per annum. And
at a meeting held 4th May, it was further

Resolved .° That the salary of the Clerk be at
the rate of twelve hundred dollars per annum.

5. To ﬁll vacancies occurring in any ofﬁce of
the Society.

Under this head, the following gentlemen have-
resigned their oﬁicial positions. Wm. Coventry
H. Waddell, as Secretary, and Wm. McMurray as
Treasurer of the Society; and your Committee
have elected N. P. Hosack to ﬁll the vacancy in
the oﬂice of Secretary, and John B. Murray to ﬁll
the vacancy in the ofﬁce of Treasurer.

6. The Committee are empowered to declare
seats in their own body vacant for cause.

Under this clause, the Committee have been
compelled to declare the seats of Henry Grinnell,
and Richard A. Southwick vacant; the former

 

 

  

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

47

11. By this clause the Committee are to hold
a meeting once a month. This requirement was,

during the months of October, November, Decem-
ber, January, February, March, and April, fully

carried out. Previous to October, meetings were

held in July for organization and appointment of

delegates, to represent the Institution at the con-
gress of Societies for the prevention of cruelty to
animals, appointed to meet in Paris on July Slst,
1st, 2d, and 3d of August, 1867 ; and the Rev.
Henry W. Bellows, Samuel B. Ruggles, and Frank
Leslie, were appointed delegates. In the months
of May, June, August, and September, there was
no quorum. '

12th. This clause, requiring a quorum of ﬁve
members for the transaction of business, has been
complied with.

Your Committee would further respectfully rep-
resent :

That, as a full Report of the history of the action
of the Society accompanies this one, there exists
less occasion for them to dilate thereon; but as
there have been matters brought before the Com-
mittee for their action which do not come within
the scope of the Secretary’s Report, they would
the1ef01e submit the following.

At a meeting of the Committee, held Oct. 21,
1867, the President brought up for consideration
the subject of the abuse of horses by overloading

 

      

 

 

 




  
 
  
   
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
    
  
 
 
  
    

 

4.8

city railroad-cars, trucks, and others. Whereupon
‘ C

it was

Ordered: That in the opinion of this Committee ,
a circular letter be addressed to the presidents of l
ilroads and others, and that the same be l
al information; that this Society
d to prosecute all cases of over-
ught to their notice; and

city ra
published for gener
will at once procee
loading which may be bro
it was further ,

l

Resolved: That inquiries be made and estimates
procured of the cost and expense which would be
incurred in preparing patterns, and in the erection
_ of fountains similar to those which were at ﬁrst
it (- projected by the Society, as shown on the cover of
the Report of 1867.

 

At a meeting of the Committee held Nov. 15th,

1867, it was ,
l

Resolved: That the President recommend, I

through the press, that draught-horses be driven
at all drivers be re-‘

without cheek reins, and th
quested to use a tight rein in driving, as a preven-
tive to the falling of their horses on the smooth

stone pavements of the city.

 

Mr. Frank Leslie, who had been appointed a
ne at a previous meeting to investi-
gate and report as regards the cruelties Continued
to be practised at Barnum’s Museum; Reported,
that he had seen Mr. Barnum on the subject, and

committee of o

  

 




 

that he stated, that, in deference to the views of l
of the Society, live animals should not hereafter be

fed to reptiles during exhibition hours ; but only

at night, when the public were excluded.

1
r
l
I
:2; t Your Committee also beg leave to report, that, I
I proﬁting by the experience of other Societies, as
to the policy of sustaining benevolent institutions,
by the medium of annual dues, Which is shown to
be defective, resulting in capricious and uncertain
support, took measures to obtain a Permanent
Fund, the interest of which should be adequate, if
ll possible, to the current expenses of the Society.
Through the noble exertions of Mr. Horace B.
Claﬂin, one of our Vice-presidents, the sum of
$8,300 was procured for‘that purpose—the ﬁrm of
H. B. Claﬂin & 00., heading the list with the
handsome donation of $1,000 ; a detailed account
of which appears in the Report of the Treasurer;
and at a meeting held 6 December, 1867, it was

 

 

 

Resolved: That the Treasurer of the Society,
John B. Murray, be, and he is hereby authorized
l and instructed to purchase $9,000 of the United
‘ States 6 per cent Registered Bonds of 1865, as an
investment for account of said Fund. It was also,

Resolved .' That in view of the generous donation
of 100 volumes, made by Mr. Angelo Ames, of
Albany, of a work, entitled the “Spirit of Human-
ity, and the Animals’ Friend,” to this Society, to be
distributed among our public schools; and in view 1,..-

 

 

 




{Ti

3.7.9.“.

*c._...... m ..___.__ _._.< .V_

50

of his disinterested and useful efforts to advance
the cause of morality and mercy, that he be and
he is hereby elected an ew-oﬁicio member, and that
the thanks of the Society be tendered him for his
handsome donation.

Also, at a meeting of this Committee, held on
2d March, 1868, it was

Resolved: That Mr. Bergh call on his Honor
Mayor Hoffman, and confer with him on the sub-
ject of the Dog ’Pound in this city; the cruelties
practised thereat having been the cause of numer-
ous complaints being made to the Society;
and at a subsequent meeting of the Com-
mittee, Mr. Bergh stated that the Mayor had
promptly signiﬁed his willingness to aid in abating
the same, and desired to have the opinion. of the
Executive Committee, as to the most effectual
means of carrying out the purposes of the Society.

. Whereupon it was

Resolved .° That His Honor, the Mayor, be re-
quested to reduce the reward for capturing dogs to
twenty-ﬁve cents a head; and that all persons un-
deneighteen years of age be prohibited from cap-
turing them.

The above resolution was forwarded to His
Honor, accompanied by the following letter from
the President:

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

51
NEW YORK, April 13, 1868.

HON. JOHN T. HOFFMAN, Mayor of New York—-
DEAR SIR:

“In compliance with your polite request, I cOn-
dense a few statistics, which I have translated
from the Reports of foreign societies, in relation to

hydrophobia in dogs.

“The distinguished physiologists Dupuytren,
Brischet, Magendie, and others, afﬁrm that they
have put dogs and cats in an enclosure together,
and there kept them without food or water until
they devoured one another, without Hydrophobia
ever developing itself.

“Moreover, that they have subjected them to a
continuous annoyance, with a view to provoking
them to madness, without effect; and have fur-
nished them foul water and ﬂesh of the most un-
healthy and corrupt quality, with like result. The
foregoing naturalists, along with the great Italian
physician, Capello, including the entire College of
Veterinary Surgeons of Alfort, declare that spon-
taneous hydrophobia, has its origin in the unsatis-
ﬁed necessities of the male animal for the female,
the continual use of bones as a diet, owing to the
phosphorus which they contain, augmenting that
desire. Froussart, and others, afﬁrm that it is the
males only which are subject to spontaneous rabies,
and recommend that this 8658 only be killed.

 




 

53

“The veterinary school of Lyons asserts that
dogs are more liable to madness during the cold
and winter months than during June, July, and
August.

“ A vast number of modern physiologists declare,

that the inuzzling of dogs only tends to produce

the disease, and that it is no safeguard, because, if
MAD, the animal breaks the muzzle and bites; and
that most of the cases occur in private houses,

where exercise and intercourse with the female is
more rigorously denied them.

“ ‘ Cursed be the muzzle !’ exclaims the French
Secretary of the Board of Health, of Paris, who, in
a charming story, causes a muzzled dog to describe
his sensations, thus: ‘In my organization, nature
has provided me with no other sudoriﬁc glands
than those of my tongue. During the great heat
of summer, touch my skin, it is dry; look at my
tongue and see the streams of sweet escaping;
muzzle me, and what is the result? You arrest
this natural excretion of my body; you turn it in-
wards, and it corrupts my blood and propagates
the very disease which you seek to prevent, and'I
bite, in my delirium, those, among others, whom I
love best.’

“In Berlin, the muzzle has been discontinued.
In Turkey, Egypt, and Syria, madness is very
rare, although, by reason of the Mussulman’s su-
perior humanity, dogs are Inever killed.

 

 




 

 

*‘O' W‘-

54

“I think the reduction in rewards will break up
the speculators, and do away with much of the.

evil.
“ Very Respectfully,

“JOHN. T. HOFFMAN.”

Your Committee also further report:

That, owing to the continued reports of dog and
cock ﬁghts by the press, inquiries were instituted
by our own ofﬁcers, as well as by the Superintend-
ent of Police, relative to their authenticity, and we
feel warranted in saying that a majority of them
were sensation paragraphs, sold to the newspapers
as such, and without any other foundation than
fancy. It is conﬁdently believed that few such
violations of law have occurred without the knowl-
edge of the President, and his prompt suppression
thereof. The principal establishments of that sort
have already been suppressed by the Society, and
a well-founded apprehension exists on the part of
persons meditating the perpetration of the offence.

Your Committee also further report:

That, at a meeting of the Executive Committee
held May 4th, it was

Resolved .° That this Society unite with the
Farmer’s Club in offering a reward, to an amount
not to exceed one hundred dollars, on the part of

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




    

55

   
  
 
 
 
 
   
    
   
  

this Institution, for the best invention to supersede
the yoke at present in use for harnessing oxen.

Respectfully submitted,

HENRY BERGH, .
WM. McMURRAY, Commlttee.
O. H. PERRY.

 

.Report of the Committee on Nominations was
then read, viz.:

At a meeting of the Executive Committee held
on the 2d March, it was

Resolved: That a Committee of three be ap-
pointed to nominate suitable persons to be sup-
ported for ofﬁce at the next annual election.

Whereupon, Messrs. T. Cr. Hodgkins, J. M. .
Bixby, and Dr. E. D. Hudson were appointed such ‘ .

Committee.

  
 

 

The Committee on Nominations for the Annual
Election of Ofﬁcers of the American Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, May, 1868——

 
     
 

Recpcctfully report: That they have fulﬁlled the
duty imposed upon them, and beg leave to submit
the following ticket for the suffrages of members
at this election, to wit:

    
   
   

 

 




 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

. A.
NWT? ,mu .HW. 4.11M. Writ,
V215...“ /._.._ \\ "mmmw £3223. ;

.1 . . . k . ,7 [ﬁll-[Ilia ’

.\ ‘me .. -ll \

y -- , >1 / IK.L11\.Wth/I&ﬂfwl N\ mom? \ ummmmmmWWHmdmzxr/JILEH
) . i ll ”WWW/mm .. , 4*; ﬂﬁuu \Iﬁx/é _ . .1. w.

, c. x 1. x... VHEHIIIH! . . . . :1 .. ll)’ \ . l \

Sub

I\||\ .11
i . .L will a .QC ‘1 x
. . II.”\I|1III.|. J . . ~421| It

ill. .II, .
{Ii

41...

h. m I .1. (W?)
\ W _ illlHIllh um. . .

.llul, / ,wV
\

i ll 1 ”1.19., /
wmm « . \kaﬁ. 1 , Q
.m \. fr. V; ,J .... , .4

.. \

\IIFW

57,. .I- a. 3/“-inme ,
, ..._..u./,, .4. \,,/2//%/ 2%2222EZ/4

ll fill]... i, .t,ﬂlﬁ /

4 » LV , {mi
.. /.

up vi) 1. .I.l||| It“! .
. Qaii\§hu\“\l‘di|nﬁ||§ il’lilji/

i , ill"! I: I “\'I)‘ llr I ’1 4r
. . .y 1 I iiiilqit)i L\§“\I‘\\n\l‘ 11".” I“: I t
.. ,. . r . . .VJ I. l lllllillll‘IA Inlilll“ \I.'.’ lulu]
. x .r. ‘ iii! 1.11.... I iluuull. ‘I..I|I|I||i\||.u.p..ﬂl. .9!!! 1.0

I i . iii iiii‘ind ..

. 1.1.1 1'.
c - . than... . .,.\\:I\H4.l,1 Insult!!!

 

 

./ //l//

 

Some of the instruments of torture taken from offenders by the

Detectives of the Society.

 

 




W i 56
0‘

Henry Bergh.

F0115 VICE-PRFJSIDENTS. l

John T. Hoffman, H. W. Bellows, D.D.,
Peter Cooper, James Brown,
,, Benj. D. Hicks, Geo. T. Trimble, . i
7, W. H. Aspinwall, Moses Taylor, 5
ly‘ Marshall 0. Roberts, Horace B. Claﬂin. ‘

 

FOR SECRETARY.

N. P. Hosack. ’

 

FOR TREASURER.

John B. Murray. ' y l

 

FOR EXECUTIVE COMDII'ITEE.

l James T. Brady, Oliver H. Perry,
‘ Nicholas Ludlum, Frank Leslie,
John D. Wolfe, Thos. C. Acton,

N. P. Hosack, John A. Kennedy,

 

 

 

 

August Belmont,
Wm. McMurray,
Henry Bergh,

 

Wm. H. Webb,
John B. Murray,
E. G. Squier,

John Mudie.

New York, March 16, 1868.

THOS. Gr. HODGKINS,

Chairman, .
Commlttee.

J No. M. BIXBY,
E. D. HUDSON.

 

 




 

 

 

57

The President then directed the poll to be
opened for the Annual Election, and Messrs. Gard-

ner and Hodgkins were appointed Tellers.

The result of the poll was the unanimous elec-
tion of the several persons recommended by the
Committee on Nominations, to the several po-

‘ sitions therein named.

On nomination, the following persons were duly
elected as Resident Members: Messrs. Barak Gr.
Qoles, Harvey C. Coles, and Mrs. Barak Gr. Coles.

After a few brief remarks from the President,

the meeting adjourned.

N. P. HOSACK,
Secretary.

W

ARRESTS AND GONVIGTIONS.

1867.

April 24. Madison Marshall, superintendent of the Seventh avenue
railroad, for ordering two lame horses to be used before car
No. 7. Discharged by Justice Ledwith.

April 25. John VVasley, beating a baulky horse. Discharged by J us-

tice. Kelly.

May 4. John Whalen, driving a lame horse before an omnibus of the
Twenty-third street line. Discharged by the magistrate.

May 4. M. Rudden, for cruelly conﬁning cows. Fined ten dollars
, by Justice Dowling.

May 4. Paul Sherar, for throwing a dog overboard from a ferry-boat.
Judgment suspended by Justice Dowling.

s}

 

 

 

 

 




A.

 

 

 

 

 

May 4.

May 7.

May 7.

May 7.

May 7.

May 7.

May 9.

May 9.

May 9.

May 12.

May 12.

May 12.

May 14.

May 14.

May 15.

May 16.

58

John Smith, driving a lame horse. Fined ten dollars by J us-
tice Dowling.

 

Berry, driver of car 41, Seventh Avenue and University
line, for driving a horse lame and with a bleeding sore on his
leg. Discharged by J ustice Ledwith.

Richard Kennedy, overworking two disabled horses on 11th
April. Absconded.

John Nuhn, driving a lame horse and kicking him to urge
him on. Fined ten dollars by Justice Dowling.

F. Kearns, driving a lame horse attached to a market-wagon.
Fined ten dollars by Justice Dowling.

M. P. Mount, driving a horse with swollen legs and running
sores thereon. Fined ﬁve dollars by Justice Dowling.

John Hyatt, starving a horse in stable 460 East Houston street.
Fined twenty-ﬁve dollars by Justice Dowling.

John Goldstein, carrying too many calves in his wagon.
Fined ten dollars by Justice Dowling.

'1
Louis Sitzke, driving a lame horse. Fined twenty dollars by
Justice Dowling.

Wm. Hagar, beating and shqoting a dog. Fined ten dollars
by Justice Dowling.

J. Carroll, driving a lame horse. Fined ten dollars by J us-
tice Dowling.

Geo. Dacy, throwing a dog overboard. Judgment suspended.

M. Burke, driving a horse attached to a truck laden with
sixteen barrels of liquor while lame, and running sore on leg.
Fined ten dollars by Justice Dowling.

Patrick Keenan, driving a lame horse. Fined ten dollars by
Justice Dowling.

Robert Sharpe, driving a lame, sore, and overloaded horse.
Discharged. Wrong person.

Patrick Burke, cruelly kicking a horse before a dung cart.
Fined ten dollars by Justice Dowling.

 




AX

 

 

60

June 1.

 

Blake, driver of car 64, Sixth Avenue Railroad, for beat-
ing his horse with an iron hook. The complainant withdrew
his complaint on 18th June, on account of the death of the
Wife and child of the accused.

June 4. Patrick Corcoran, beating a horse under the belly and on one
of its legs so severely as to completely paralyze it. Fined one
dollar by Justice Kelly.

June 4. Patrick Riley, driving a horse with sore breast. Fined ﬁve
dollars by Justice Kelly.

June 4. Jacob Frank, for ﬁghting dogs. Sentenced to ten days in
prison, and afterward committed to ten dollars’ ﬁne, by Justice
Kelly.

June 5. Frank Gates, driver of a city railroad car, striking a horse on
the nose with an iron hook. Was released on expressing con-
trition for the offence, and a promise of never committing a.
similar one again.

June 6. Geo. Meyers, driving three dogs attached to a cart laden with
ashes and oﬂ'al. Judgment suspended by Justice Dowling.

June 11. Richard Kane, driving a diseased horse harnessed to a truck
laden with stone. Fined ten dollars by Justice Dowling.

June 11. Alexander Nickerson, inciting two dogs to ﬁght. Case dis-
missed by the non-appearance of the complainant, J. C. Att-
water, on day of trial.

June 19. John Quirk, driving a horse with sores on hips and sides.
'Dismissed by Justice Kelly.

June 22. Parties unknown, for poisoning cats, dogs, and poultry, in
Eleventh avenue, near Eightieth street. No clue could be
obtained to the perpetrators by the Society.

Chasey, driver of car 8, University Place Railroad line,
for driving a lame horse. Absconded.

June 24.

 

June 24. Wm. Scheitwer, for killing a cat. Dismissed by Justice
Dodge.

June 25. John Bonner, driving a horse sound in one leg only. Fined
ﬁve dollars by Justice Kelly.

 




 

 

61

June 25. John Rigney, driving a horse with sore back. Judgment
suspended by Justice Kelly.

June 25. Michael Kenly, driving a horse with its hoof rotted of. Five
days in prison, by Justice Kelly.

June 25. Henry Harris, for ﬁghting dogs. Twenty days in prison.

June 26. Moses McCarthy, driver of a Fourth Avenue Railroad car, for
driving a lame horse. Dismissed on account of the absence of
complainant.

June 29. Murphy & Smith, appealed to in regard to the inhuman
treatment inﬂicted on one of their omnibus horses by the driver.
N 0 answer returned.

July 2. N. Heidelburger, cruelly killing a cat. Fined twenty dollars
by Justice Kelly.

July 2. N. Hohenhirtz, hanging a dog. Fined ﬁve dollars by Justice
Kelly.

July 2. John Fisher, carrying calves in a cruel manner. Fined ﬁve
dollars by Justice Kelly.

July 9. Philip Fanning, driving a poor, emaciated horse, with a large
sore on its back. Fined ten dollars by Justice Dowling.

July 11. John Dexihimer, cruelty to a cow. Dismissed, complainant
not appearing.

July 11. Thos. Naylor, driving a horse with a crack in its hoof. Dis-
missed by Justice Kelly.

July 11. Philip Fleming, for abusing a horse. Dismissed by Justice
' Dowling.

July 16. A. McPhillips, driving a lame and sick horse. Fined ten
dollars by Justice Kelly.

July 23. H. Downing, driving a horse with sore on its foot. Fined
ﬁve dollars by Justice Dowling.

July 24. Henry Peterson, overloading his truck. Fined ﬁfteen dollars-
by Justice Dowling.

July 30. Alexander Reynolds, for driving a lame horse before a stage.
Fined ten dollars by Justice Kelly.

 

 

'gs,l____ -__. .

 

 




“'4

 

 

62

July 30. Henry Homer, for driving a lame horse before a stage. Fined
ten dollars by Justice Kelly.

July 30. A. J. Nichols, driving a horse with sore under the collar.
Fined ten dollars by J ustice Kelly.

July 30. Wm. Smith, driving a lame and sick horse. Sentenced to
one day’s imprisonment.

July 30. Henry Kinger, overloading a truck. Dismissed by error in
the complaint.

Aug. 3. John Schmidt, driving a horse before a wagon with a sore on
its back. Fined ten dollars by Justice Kelly.

Aug. 13. George Metz, breaking the legs, punching out the eyes, and
pushing a stick up the fundament of an ex. Fined ﬁfty dol-
lars, and thirty days in prison, by Justice Kelly.

Aug. 13. W. Johnston, driving a horse with sore under the saddle.
Fined ten dollars by Justice Dowling.

July 20. I. Henley, setting a dog on a cat and killing it. Fined ﬁfteen
dollars by Justice Kelly.

July 20. 1. Wise, driving a lame horse with swollen fetlocks. Fined
five dollars by Justice Kelly.

Aug. 20. J as. Sullivan, cruelly whipping his horse. Complaint with—
drawn and case dismissed.

Aug. 22. Henry Cunney, for driving a horse alleged to be sick, but
not proven.

Aug. 22. A carman in rear of No. 4 Bowling Green, complained of for
cruelly whipping his horses in the yard. On promise of future
good behavior, complaint was withdrawn.

Aug. 26. Anonymous complaint against a man by the name of Stone.
for abuse of horses, in East Fifty-third street, received the at-
tention of the Society, but without legal issue.

Aug. 26. Patrick Murphy, starving a horse to death. ‘Warrant pro-
cured, but he absconded to and died in New Jersey.

Aug. 26. Wm. Schilling, throwing a horse overboard and drowning
him. [Dismissed by Justice Dowling.

 




 

 

 

 

 

63

Aug. 27. P. Doyle, throwing a cat out of a window. Fined ten dol-
lars by Justice Kelly.

Aug. 27. John Kinchen, driving a horse with sores on its breast and
belly. Fined ﬁve dollars by Justice Kelly. '

Aug. 27. P. Grady, driving a horse with sores on its hips. Fined ﬁve
dollars by Justice Kelly.

Aug. 27. Peter O’Conner, driving a lame horse and with sores under
the collar. Fined ﬁve dollars by Justice Kelly.

Aug. 27. Philip Hepp, turning a disabled horse out to die. Fined ﬁve
dollars by Justice Kelly.

Aug. 27. J as. Boyle, overloading a weak and disabled horse with
4,500 pounds cheese. Fined ﬁve dollars by Justice Kelly.

Aug. 31. Robert Compton, inciting two dogs to ﬁght on a canal-boat.
Fined ten dollars by Justice Kelly.

Sept. 3. John Steele, driving a sick horse before an ice—wagon. Fined
ten dollars by Justice Dowling.

Sept. 3. John Haskins, driving a horse with sores under the collar.
Fined ten dollars by Justice Dowling.

Sept. 3. C. Grayson, driving a horse with a large sore on its back.
Judgment suspended by request of complainant.

Sept. 3. Henry Woods, driving a horse sick with glanders, sore on
breast, and swollen legs. Fined ten dollars by Justice Dowling.

Sept. 3. Wm. Watchhorn, driving a horse with sore back. Fined ten
dollars by Justice Dowling.

Sept. 3. Adam Cornelius, beating his horse. Fined ten dollars by
Justice Dowling.

Sept 3. Philip Smith, driving a lame horse. Dismissed by Justice
‘ Dowling.

Sept. 3. Driver of car No. 1, Sixth Avenue Railroad, for driving a
team of horses unﬁt for use. The Society was unable to prose-
cute, owing to the neglect of the complainant to make the
necessary afﬁdavit.

 

 




 

\x

Sept.

Sept.

Sept.

Sept.

Sept.

Sept.

Sept

Sept.

Sept.

Sept.

Sept.

Sept.

Sept

Sept.

Sept.

Sept.

64

3. John Lavin, driving a horse with sore shoulders. Failed to
appear, and bail forfeited. This was a case of false name and
residence and straw bail!

6. Thos. W. Clendeney, driving a lame horse with a sore on its
back. Fined ten dollars by Justice Dowling. V

7. I. F. Brickweld, driving a horse with a sore back, lame, and
unﬁt for use. Fined ten dollars by Justice Dowling.

7. M. C. Thompson, driving a horse with sore on its back. Fined
ten dollars by J us‘tice Dowling.

10. Driver of truck 905, arrested for overloading, but, as he con-
sented to take off a part of the load, was released.

10. A complaint against the stage line running from Harlem to
Carmansville was found to be erroneous.

12. Thos. Maloney, packing thirty-eight lambs and two calves in
a wagon, standing on one another. Fined ten dollars.

17. F. Rantze, driving a horse attached to a brewery-wagon with
sore under collar. Fined ten dollars.

17. John DeCusky, driving a horse with sores under collar. Fined
. ten dollars. ‘

17. Frank Bassinger, for cruelty to dogs while training them.
Judgment suspended by Justice Dowling.

18. Mrs. McCarthy, alleged cruelty in killing a dog belonging-
to Daniel Shay. Warrant to arrest refused by Justice Dowling.

18. Nicholas Wolf, overloading and beating a. team of horses.
Dismissed on account of the non-appearance of the complainant.

19. Daniel Shea, driving a horse with four running sores on its
back. Fined ten dollars by Justice Dowling.

19. Patrick O’Brien and John Roach, beating a horse with a
board. Fined ten dollars each by Justice Dowling.

24. Richard G’Grady, cruelly shooting a cat. Fined ten dollars
by Justice Dowling.

24. Conrad Beyer, driving a horse covered with sores. Fined
ten dollars by Justice Dowling.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

65

Sept. 24.. Michael Cavanagh and James Hennessey, driving a horse at—
tached to an ice—wagon with sores on shoulders. Complainant
not appearing when called, case was dismissed.

Sept. 30. Daniel Klein, driving a diseased horse. Dismissed by J us-
tice Dowling.

Sept. 30. Ludlow Travis, driver on the Eighth Avenue Railroad, driv—
ing a sick horse, which died in the street. Dismissed by J us-

tice Kelly.

Oct. 1. John Mundiger, for working a horse unﬁt for use. Fined
three dollars by Justice Kelly.

Oct. 1. B. Curar, driving a lame horse before an omnibus. Fined ten
dollars by Justice Kelly.

Oct. 1. John Dwyer, driving a horse with sores on its back. Fined »

three dollars by Justice Kelly.

Oct. 1. Michael Maloney, striking a horse on the head with a shovel.
Fined ten dollars and three days imprisonment by J ustice Kelly.

Oct. 7. FranCis Higgins, dragginga horse by an iron chain attached to
the tail of a cart. Dismissed by Justice Kelly.

Oct. 8. D. Klein, driving a diseased horse in Ninth street. Dismissed
by Justice Kelly.

Oct, 10. Royal Minton, driving a lame and sore horse. Dismissed by
Justice Hogan.

Oct. 14. Thomas Brady, complained of for cruelty to his horses. Dis—
missed. '

Oct. 15. George Vivars, driving a lame horse. Fined ten dollars by
Justice Kelly.

Oct. 17. Andrew Finzey, driving a lame horse. Fined ten dollars by
Justice Kelly.

Oct. 17. Augustus Walbout, beating a horse on the head with the
butt end of a whip. Fined twenty dollars by Justice Kelly.

Oct. 17. William Smith, abandoning a starving horse in Broadway,
corner of Duane street. This horse was saved by Mr. Bergh1
and raised and sent home. Dismissed by J uStice Dowling.

~r£

 

 

_.._. a, i., . I N




I"

 

 

 

66

Oct. 19. Complaint made to the Eighth Avenue Railroad Company,
in regard to the condition of one of their horses.

Oct. 25. Complaint made to the Hudson River Railroad Company, for
great overloading. '

Oct. 26. Peter Smith, driving a poor and emaciated horse. Fined ten
dollars by Justice Kelly.

Oct. 26. Michael Mahoney, driving a horse with sores under collar;
Fined ﬁve dollars by Justice Kelly.

’Oct. 29. Samuel Bogart, driving a lame and spavined horse. Fined

ﬁve dollars by Justice Kelly.

Oct. 31. Peter Grosque, driving a horse with sores on his body. Fined
ten dollars by Justice Kelly.

Oct. 31. Patrick Martin, beating a mule. Fined ten dollars by J us-
‘ tice Kelly.

Nov. 2. AbrahamlHillier, beating, and overloading a pair of horses
with 7666 lbs. of hogs. Fined ten dollars by Justice Kelly.

Nov. 2. Patrick Norton, a boy, for cruelly torturing a dog by putting
a rope round his neck. Reprimanded and discharged by J us-
tice Kelly.

Nov. 7. John Leonard, for driving a lame horse covered with sores.
Fined ten dollars by Justice Dowling.

Nov. 9. James Haley, driving a sore and emaciated horse. Fined ten
dollars by Justice Dowling.

Nov. 9. Abraham C. Earl, overloading a truck with twenty-ﬁve barrels
of ﬂour. Dismissed by Justice Hogan by reason of the insuf-
ﬁciency of proof.

N 0v. 9. John O’Donnell, using a horse unﬁt for use. Discharged by
Justice Shandley on account of the age of the prisoner.

Nov. 12. Robert B. Pate, driving a horse with a large running sore
under the collar. Fined ten dollars by Justice Dowling.

Nov. 13. Hugh McPike, using threatening language to the President,
Mr. Bergh, while endeavoring to protect a horse. Justice
Dowling compelled him to give bonds to keep the peace for
one year.

 

 

 

 




r“ "

 

 

Dec. 5.

Dec. 7.

Dec. 7.

Dec. 7.

Dec. 12.

Dec. 12.

Dec. 12.

Dec. 13.

Dec. 14.

Dec. 18.

Dec. 19.

Dec. 21.

Dec. 21.

Dec. 24.

Dec. 24.

68

Adam Sharpe, driving a lame horse with a heavy load. Fined
ten dollars by Justice Dowling.

John McGinniss, for riding a sick horse with a sore back.
Fined ﬁve dollars and one week in prison.

Herman Olandt, kicking his horse, which had fallen. Was
acquitted, with a severe reprimand, by Justice Kelly.

Samuel Schwaelder, cruelly hooking back the wings of tur-
keys. Fined twenty dollars by Justice Kelly.

Edgar Riker, for dragging a horse with a rope and abandon—
ing it to die. Fined twenty dollars by Justice Kelly

Gotlieb Dammer, for driving a horse unﬁt for use, and for
kicking it. Fined twenty dollars and imprisoned ﬁve days by
Justice Kelly.

1. R. Elfrich, conﬁning geese in small 000ps. Acquitted by
Recorder Hackett.

Edward Aronson and Simon Rice, for tying geese by the
wings and feet. Discharged by Justice Dowling.

Alfred W. Doty, for striking his horse with the butt end of a
whip. Fined ﬁve dollars by Justice Dowling.

I. T. Polk, driving a horse with a running sore. Fined ﬁve
dollars by Justice Kelly.

James Horton. Overloading and beating his team. Dis-
missed by Justice Hogan.

Patrick Murphy, beating a horse with a cart-rung. Fined
ten dollars by Justice Kelly.

Henry Dolan, overloading and otherwise maltreating his
team. Fined ten dollars by Justice Kelly.

Henry W. Smith, beating a horse attached to a truck with a.
large hickory stick. Fined ten dollars, and imprisonment ten
days by Justice Kelly.

Allerton, Dutcher & Moore, for having cattle exposed to the
weather in their yards at One Hundredth street. For particu-
lars of the case, see page 27. '

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Dec.

Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

Jan.
Jan.
Jan.
Jan.

Jan.

Jan.

Jan.
Jan.

Jan.

. 26.

30.

11.

11.

11.

11.

13.

14.

16.

16.

69

Thos. Egan, found clipping a horse at 59 Irving place. Pre-
vious to arresting, District Attorney Hall was consulted, who
recommended us not to proceed with the case. Abandoned.

Information being received that a dog ﬁght was to take
place near Calvary Cemetery on Long Island, by the prompt
assistance of the police the ﬁght was prevented.

Robert Henselwood, maliciously killing a cat. Complainant
failed to appear. Dismissed.

 

Gough, abandoning a horse to die. Complainant failed
to appear. .

Dennis Ward, driving a horse with two sores on his back.
Defendant died before trial ”came on.

Jeremiah O’Brien, for overloading his horse, ﬁned ten dollars.
Judge Dowling ruled that one ton is a sufﬁcient load for one
horse.

Richard Hartigan, driving a horse with a running sore on his
leg. Fined ten dollars by Judge Dowling.

Michael O’Donahue, abandoning a horse, with leg broken.
Fined ten dollars by Judge Dowling.

George Phillips, driving and beatinga horse with a sore back.
Fined twenty-ﬁve dollars by Justice Dowling.

Owen LaWrence, beating and overloading his horses. Fined
ten dollars by Justice Dowling. ~

John Tracy, driving a} horse with a sore back. Fined ten
dollars, by Justice Dowling.

Thomas C. Doremus, 45 Warren street, complaint against
driver of wagon No. 1722, for beating his horse on the head.
Could not identify.

William Jennings, driving a horse with sores on its foot and
on its body. Fined ten dollars by Justice Dowling.

Dennis McBride, driving a horse with a sore foot. Fined ten
dollars by Justice Dowling.

Owen Devlin, driving a lame horse. Fined ten dollars by
Justice Dowling.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Jan. 17.

Jan. 18.

Jan. 21.

Jan. 23.

Jan. 25.

Jan. 25.

Jan. 25.

Jan. 80.

Jan. 30.

' Jan. 30.

Jan. 80.

Jan. 30.

Jan. 30.

Feb. 1.

Feb. 1.

7O

Lehman Samuels. for cutting the tendons of the feet of an
ox while alive. Was dismissed, on the ground of failing to
prove Samuels the proprietor of the slaughter-house.

Matthew Finerty, overloading. Acquitted by Justice Dowling.

George McGivney and Peter 0. Dell for cutting off a dog’s tail
with a cleaver. Each ﬁned ten dollars and Dell in addition ten
days imprisonment, by Justice Dowling.

John Reardon, driving horse with sore back. Fined ten dol-
lars by Justice Kelly.

Adam Shepherd, driving a horse with a large sore on its
breast. Fined ten dollars by Justice Dowling. This horse fell
from weakness and was shot.

Job Frazee, beating his horses and overloading his truck,
which had on it twenty-five barrels of ﬂour. Fined ten dollars
by Justice Dowling.

John Bell, driving a horse lame in both forefeet. Fined ten
dollars by Justice Dowling.

Richard Welsh, beating a horse with a cart rung. Fined ten
dollars by Justice Kelly.

Thomas Corragan, driving a horse with sores and stabbing
him in the mouth. Fined ten dollars by Justice Kelly.

M. Otten, overloading a two horse truck. Fined two dollars
by Justice Kelly.

Patrick Gillan, for cruelly and wantonly killing a dog. Fined
twenty-ﬁve dollars, and ten days imprisonment, by Justice
Dowling.

Robert Clary and ”Peter Ashly for overloading their trucks.
Were discharged.

Patrick Garvey and Henry Weir, for beating their horses.
Discharged by Justice Hogan.

John Goetz, for overloading his wagon. Fined ﬁve dollars by
Justice Kelly.

Peter Brown, for overloading his truck. Fined three dollars,
by Justice Kelly.

 

 

 




 

 

 

Feb

Feb

Feb

Feb

 

Feb.

Feb.

Feb.

Feb.

Feb.

Feb.

Feb.

Feb.

71

1. Thomas Dolan, for overloading a team of Weak horses. Fined
ten dollars by Justice Kelly.

6. William Halligan, for overloading. Fined ﬁve dollars and
three days imprisonment, by Justice Kelly.

7. G. W. Tinsdale and Arthur Taggart, driver and conductor of
car 28, Bleecker street and Fulton Ferry Railroad line, for
compelling two horses to draw an overloaded car up thegrade
on Elm street near Duane. One of the horses fell twice and the
passengers had to get out and help to push the car along.
Fined two hundred and ﬁfty dollars each, by Recorder
Hackett. This case was appealed to the Supreme Court of the
State of New York.

10. John Halden, driving a horse lame in one shoulder, and.

otherwise unﬁt for use. The case sent to the Grand Jury and
dismissed.

10. Julius Dauphine, and Jessie Ball, for overloading. Dis-
missed by Justice Dowling.

10. Ira Moore, Superintendent of the Hudson River Railroad Co.
City Railroad line, for leaving a horse with a broken leg, tied
to a post, from 8 A. M. till 5 P. M. and having a permit in his
pocket to kill him. Case dismissed by Justice Dowling.

11. William Walsh, beating a horse with acart-rung. Fined
twenty dollars by Justice Dowling.

11. Daniel Masterson, beating a horse with a cart-rung. Fined
twenty-ﬁve dollars, by Justice Dowling.

13. William Bogart, overloading a truck. Fined ten dollars by
Justice Dowling.

15. S. Hess, for having a calf tied by the neck, and geese and
turkeys tied by the legs, all huddled together in a wagon.
Fined ten dollars by Justice Dowling.

18. Thomas Smith, abandoning a horse with a broken leg.
Fined ten dollars and ten days imprisonment, by Justice
Kelly.

20. Henry Somercamp, beating an ox unmercifully in the
slaughter—house. Was acquitted by Justice Dowling.

 

 

 




 

 

 

72

Feb. 25. Timothy Purcell, driving an emaciated horse with sores
under the collar. \Vas acquitted by Judge Ingraham. on the
ground that no malicious intent was shown.

Feb. 25. W. T. Cutler, driving a horse with a sore hip. Sentenced to
ﬁve days imprisonment, by Justice Dowling.

Feb. 25. John Murphy, driver of a Broadway and Eighth street stage,
for driving two horses unﬁt for use. Found guilty, and judg-
inent suspended.

Feb. 27. Rudolph VVeibolt, turning a sick and disabled horse out to
die. Fined twenty dollars by Justices Kelly and Dowling.

Feb. 27. Asher Beekman, abandoning a horse to die. Fined ﬁfteen
dollars by Justices Kelly and Dowling.

Feb. 29. Complaint against car 103, Seventh Avenue Railroad line, for
overloading and driving ahorse before said car with a running
sore under fore-shoulder, was made to the Society, but, the
complainant neglecting to appear, case was dismissed.

Feb. 29. Complaint against cart N o. 1506, for overloading, kicking, and
beating the horses. Could not be prosecuted, as the com-
g plainant could not identify the parties.

Feb. 29. John Redﬁcld, overdriving, mutilating, and keeping two
horses out all night in the cold. The complainant not appear-
ing, the case was dismissed.

Feb. 29. George Selleck, overloading, thereby causing one of the ,
horses to fall and injure itself. Complainant failed to appear.

March 5. Gully Fisher, driving a horse with sore side. Fined ﬁve
dollars by Justices Kelly and Dowling.

'March 7. John Campbell, beating his horse With a strap over the

head. Fined ﬁfteen dollars by Justices Kelly and Dowling.

March 10. Philip Fitzpatrick, driving a horse With a sore breast.
Fined ten dollars by Justice Dowling.

March 10. Calvin H. Beck, driving a lame horse. Fined ten dollars
by Justice Dowling.

March 14. P. I. Rothwell, driving a pair of horses before a carriage
unﬁt for use. Fined ten dollars by Justice Dowling.

 

 




 

 

l . 73

March 14. J oseph \Vorthein, abandoning a horse. Acquitted by J us-
tice Dowling.

March 14. Abner Barnard, driving a horse with sores on the back
and shoulders. Fined ﬁfteen dollars by J ustico Dowling.

 

March 24. A complaint was made against the Union Condensed Milk
Company for having a horse very much emaciated, eating his
own bedding, and having a sore foot. Destroyed by our order.

 

March 24. J. H. Titus, driving a horse with a sore leg. Fined ﬁve
dollars by Justices Kelly and Dowling.

March 24. Thos. Wood, beating his horse. Fined ﬁve dollars by J us
tices Kelly and Dowling.

March 24. I. W'izley, kicking a horse in the belly. Fined ﬁve dollars
by Judge Dowling. '

March 26. J as. Collins, driving a horse with a sore. Was discharged,
with a view of prosecuting the owner.

 

 

March 26. F. Anthony, having a calf tied by the neck hanging in the
cart with dressed meat. Fined ﬁve dollars by Justice Dowling.‘

March 31. Henry Bock, driving a lame horse. Judgment suspended.
s

 

March 31. Goldstein, withholding sufﬁcient sustenance from his
horse. Cared for by the Society. '

 

April 2. G. Fierber, driving a horse with a sore leg. Fined ﬁve dol-l v
lars by Justice Kelly. ’

 

April 2. Samuel Moﬂ‘at, causing the driving of a horse with a galled (

breast before a truck laden with six bales of wool. Acquitted

. on the ground that the horse was hired, and he did not know ,

r its condition. , 4

April 7. I. Hanlen, having sheep and calves packed in a wagon.
Fined ﬁfteen dollars by Justice Kelly.

April 7. Nathan Gabriel, driving a horse with a running sore on his
back. Fined ten dollars by Justice Dowling.

 

. April 7. John Curtis, driving a lame horse. Dismissed by Justice
i Dowling.

 

April 7. D. Harrington, beating a lame horse. Dismissed by Justice
Bowling.

 

 

 




 

 

 

\ I'M “Sf ()

t“ K it, BU]

'118,

at t}

keeper of “ Sportsman’s Ha

I

0

ma

1e msti

0.
b

 

31
H
O
:3
O
H:
c+
D“
(D
('12
0
('3
H.
(D
C}.
<:<
E?
w
CD
:5
(D
02

1,” on the let of December

see very accurate.

\

, 1866, by Capt. Theme

~.~v

 

 

'l/Z/gﬂLl/IZZ/[ﬂ ‘

9 of the 4th Pr

ecin ct

7

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

State, County and Health Board Laws

AND

CITY ORDINANCES,

Relating to the Objects of this SoCiety.

 

LAWS ENACTED PRIOR TO 1867.

THE ACT “ to prevent prize ﬁghts, andﬁgbts among
game animals,” passed April 4th,, 1856, enacts as

follows .'

SEC. 1.—Every person Who shall set on foot, or
instigate, or move to, or carry on, or promote, or
engage in as a Witness, umpire or judge, or do any
act towards the furtherance of any ﬁght between
game birds, or game 000768, or dogs, or bulbs, or bears,
or between dogs and rats, or dogs and badgers, or
any other animals, that shall have been premedi-
tated by any person having custody of such ani-
mals, shall be liable to arrest and prosecution for
so doing, and upon conviction thereof, shall be pun-
ished by imprisonment in the penitentiary, or
county jail, for a term not less than ten days, nor
exceeding one year, or by ﬁne not exceeding one
thousand dollars. (3 Rev. Stat. 980, Sec. 57.)

 

 

 

 

in):

 

 

 

o
*=§~ <£f<= '

x.‘ .13 Av:

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

17“
‘1", . M
UM

 

/

 

;;
.1 V ' . .
' my“. ‘I I I
1 _ c
, ' / r
/ / I
1‘: I I / '
‘ 4 ‘4 4. / n '
’ ‘ / u
vx/Lc 0/ /

J i
1N
\\«
gsg
s: i
\f ;

 

l

/’
1 ///-

/ , .
//5//////////
//
4/1.

//'.

A...:..._.-

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘_-:_....:.5=:_..=’5.

 

 

" ‘ m

\
_. 5 _.._ ~\ s \ :K-
\‘.- .-.

‘ _—__———..._.__.—.).

   

”—2: .- '- . - ‘
,g/[y/V. .rc. .""..=——--'¥,

¢.
=, - . w ‘ “ .- ‘7‘ - ’ ' ‘
~—~—.- V.‘ , ~

*‘x

SWILL MILK.

Manner of conﬁning cows, Without exercise, or sufﬁcient air, fooci, &c., for many
months at a time; as ascertained by the Society, and illustrated

by Frank Leslie’s Newspaper.

~ 2”" "2% ﬁrm?“ "'

 

 

 

.._ a, + +1. + -~ 77 a: awn-w




 

 

76

AN ACT to prevent the Adulteratton of ﬂﬁtk, Con-
ﬁning, and Feeding of Cows on Unsuitable Food.

Laws of New York, Chap. 544, page 1195—1864.
An act to amend chapter four hundred and sixty-
seven, of the laws of eighteen hundred and sixty-
two, entitled, “An Act to prevent the adulteration
of milk, and prevent the trafﬁc in impure and un-
wholesome 111ilk.”———Passed May 2, 1864; three-
ﬁfths being present.

—_

The People of the State of New York, represented
in Senate and Assembly, do enact as follows .'

SEC. 1.——Section one of chapter four hundred
and sixty-seven, of the act entitled “An Act to
prevent the adulteration of milk,” passed April
twenty-third, eighteen hundred and sixty-two, is
hereby amended so as to read as follows: Any
person or persons who shall knowingly sell or eX-
change, or expose for sale or exchange, any impure,
adulterated or unwholesome milk, shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor, and on conviction shall
be punished by a ﬁne of not less than ﬁfty dollars
for each and every oﬁ'ence ; and if the ﬁne is not
paid, shall be imprisoned for not less than thirty
days in the penitentiary or county jail, or until

said ﬁne shall be paid.

SEC. 2.—Any person who shall adulterate milk,
with the view of offering the same for sale or ex-

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

77

change; or shall keep cows for the production of
milk for market, or for sale or exchange, in a
crowded and unhealthy condition; or feed, the
same on food that produces impure, diseased or un-
Wholesome milk; shall be deemed guilty of a mis-
demeanor, and on conviction shall be punished by
a ﬁne of not less than ﬁfty dollars for each and
every offence; and if the ﬁne is not paid, shall be

imprisoned for not less than thirty days in the pen-

itentiary or county jail, or until said ﬁne shall be
paid.

SEC. 3.——-—Any person or persons Who shall, in any
of the cities of this State, engage in or carry on the
sale, exchange or any traﬁic in milk ;' shall have
each and every can in Which the milk is carried
‘ or exposed for sale or exchange, and the carriage
or vehicle from Which the same is vended, con-
spicuously marked With his, her or their names,
also indicating by said mark the locality from
whence said milk is obtained or produced; and for
every neglect of such marking the person or per-
sons so neglecting shall be subject to the penalties
expressed in the foregoing sections of this act; but
for every violation of this act by so marking said
cans, carriage or vehicle as to convey the idea that
said milk is produced or procured from a different
locality than it really is; the person or persons so
offending shall be subject to a ﬁne of one hundred
dollars, or imprisonment in the penitentiary or
county jail, or both, in the discretion of the court.

 

 




82

SEC. 3.——Any person who shall impound, or
cause to be impounded in any pound, any creature,
shall supply to the same, during such conﬁnement,
a sufﬁcient quantity of good and wholesome food
and water, and in default thereof shall, upon, con-
viction, be adjudged guilty of a misdemeanor.

SEC. 4.—In case any creature shall be at any
time impounded as aforesaid and shall continue to
be without necessary food and water for more than
twelve successive hours, it shall be lawful for any
person, from time to time, and as often as it shall
be necessary, to enter into and upon any pound, in
which any such creature shall be so conﬁned, and

,to supply it With necessary food and water so long

as it shall remain so conﬁned; such person shall
not be liable to any action for such entry, and the
reasonable cost of such food and water may be
collected by him of the owner of such creature, and
the said creature shall not be exempt from levy
and sale upon execution issued upon a judgment
therefor.

SEC. 5.—-—If any person shall carry or cause to be
carried, in or upon any vehicle' or otherwise, any
creature in a cruel or inhuman manner, he shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor, and whenever he shall be
taken into custody therefor by any ofﬁcer, such
ofﬁcer may take charge of such vehicle and its con-
tents, and deposit the same in some safe place of
custody; and any necessary expenses which may

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

83

be incurred for taking charge of, and keeping and
sustaining the same, shall be a lien thereon, to be
paid before the same can lawfully be recovered.

Or the said expenses or any part thereof remain-
ing unpaid, may be recovered by the person incur-
ring the same of the owner of said creature, in any
action therefor.

SEC. 6.——Every person who shall hereafter use
any dog or dogs, for the purpose of drawing or
helping to draw any cart, carriage, truck, barrow,
or other vehicle, in any city or incorporated village,
for business purposes, shall be required to take out
a license for that purpose, from the Mayor or Pres-
ident thereof, respectively, and shall have the num-
ber of said license and the residence of the owner
distinctly painted thereon, and for each violation of
this section shall forfeit and pay a ﬁne of one dollar
for the ﬁrst offence, and a ﬁne of ten dollars for
each subsequent offence.

SEC. 7. ——If any maimed, sick, inﬁrm, or disabled
creature shall be abandoned to die by any person
in any public place, such person shall be guilty of
a misdemeanm, and it shall be lawful f01 any mag.
istrate or captain of police in this State to appoint
suitable persons to destroy such creature if unﬁt
for further use.

SEO. 8.——Any agent of the American Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, upon being
designated thereto by the Sheriff of any county in

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

84;

this State, may within such county make arrests
and bring before any Court or magistrate thereof
having jurisdiction, offenders found violating the
provisions of this act, and all ﬁnes imposed and
collected in any such county under the provisions
of this act shall enure to said Society, in aid of
the benevolent objects for which it was corporated.

SEC. 9.—This act shall take effect on the ﬁrst
day of May next. And the said American Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, shall
cause the same to be published once in each week,
for three weeks, in four daily papers published in
New York city, or in default thereof, shall forfeit

the right to receive the penalties and ﬁnes as pro-
vided.

SEO. 10.—Nothing in this Act contained shall be
construed to prohibit or interfere with any proper-
ly conducted scientiﬁc experiments or investiga-
tions, which experiments shall be performed only
under the authmity of the Faculty of some regu-

larly incorporated Medical College or University
of the State of New York.

-———o+4——-

PUNISHMENT FOR MISDEMEANOR.
Revised Statutes, Title 6, Part 4, Section 55,
Fifth Edition, Vol. 3, Page 980.

Every person who shall be convicted of any
misdemeanor, the punishment of which is not pre-

 




 

 

 

86

Constable is not within reach when the cruelty is
witnessed, or cannot be obtained soon afterwards,
it will be better to proceed by Summons.

II.
By the Issue of a Summons.

First obtain the name and address of the offen-
der, and that painted on the vehicle, if any, and
lay the complaint before a Magistrate.

Make a note of the time when, and the street or
place where, the offence occurred. If for driving
a horse or other animal with galled neck or shoul-
ders, or other wounds, note the size and situation
of such wounds—especially if raw, discharging, or
in contact with the harness; if for ﬂogging, or
beating, note the instrument, the number of blows,
on what part, of the body inﬂicted, and the cited,
if any, on the skin of the animal; if for lameness,
weakness, or inﬁrmity; or overloading, as mani-
fested by the trembling, falling, unusual perspira-
tion, or exhaustion of the animal; or if for mutila-
tion, such as docking tails of horses, cutting tails
or ears of dogs, or any other torture, observe min-
utely and take down in writing the character in
detail. If for transporting sheep, calves, garlic,
fowls or other poultry, or animals while bound by
the legs, or otherwise, in any part of this State,
either on land or water. Remember the language
of the accused at the time.




  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

87
III.

 

 

By the Apprehension of tbe Accused wider

IVarrant.

This is desirable in all cases where there is rea-
, son to believe the offender will' evade the Sum-

mons, or is a resident of another State, or is about
to abscond.

 

Direct Application to tliis Society to prosecute in-
- stead of the PVitness.

Any respectable person calling at the Ofﬁce of
the Society, No. 696 Broadway, New York City,
between the hours of 9 and 5 daily, or upon any
of its Agents, and furnishing the particulars of

 

in so far as may be necessary for th
the offender, and in cert

conviction.

e conviction of
ain cases, pay a reward on

It is earnestly hoped that the

ence arising out of proceedings
. from the outrages

Friends of humanit

ciety in its efforts
poses.

triﬂing inconveni-
to protect animals
of cruel persons, will not deter
y from co-operating with the So-
to promote its beneﬁcent pur-

 




C ~<s.'~a-iti:'~,: saga, ._\A

88

NEW YORK CITY UUItL’ORATION
:ORDINANCE.

(EL-tract.)
CHAPTER XXIX.
OF DRIVING HORSES IN THE CITY.

SEC. 1. No person shall ride or drive any horse
or horses in the city of New York, with greater
speed than at the rate of ﬁve miles an hour, under
the penalty of ten dollars for each offence, to be
recovered from the owner or driver thereof, sever-
ally and respectively.

SEC. 2. No person upon turning the corner of
any street in the city of New York, shall ride or
drive any horse or horses otherwise than on a
walk, under the penalty of ﬁve dollars for each of-
fence, to be paid by the owner or driver thereof,
severally and respectively.

SEC. 3. No horse shall he suffered or permitted
to go loose, or at large, in any of the streets in the
city of New York, under the penalty of ten dol-
lars for every such offence, to he paid by the own-
er, or person having the care, charge, or keeping
thereof severally and respectively.

SEC. 4. No person shall suffer or permit to go,
or lead, or ride, or drive any horse upon any side-
walk in the city of New York, under the penalty

 




 

 

 

    
   
  
   
 
 
 
    
  
 
   

89

of ﬁve dollars for each offence, to be paid by the
owner or person having the care, charge, or keep-
ing thereof, severally and respectively.

SEC. 5. No person shall run or race any horse
in any public street, road, or avenue, in the city
of New York, nor shall consent to, or suffer such
racing, under the penalty of ﬁfty dollars, to be re-

covered from the person or persons who shall so
I race, or suffer, or permit, such racing, and the own-
er, rider, and the person having charge of any ani-
mal which shall so race and run, severally and re-
spectively.

SEC. 6. The last preceding section of this chap-
ter shall be construed to prevent and punish the
running, racing, or trotting of any horse or horses,
for any trial of speed, or for the purpose of
passing any other horse or horses, whether the
same be founded upon any stake, bet, or otherwise.

(@3

 

 

 




 

.2 g

 

 

 

\4

90

LIST OF MEMBERS AND DONATIONS.

———-———H-

 

Those marked thus * are Life Members.

 

NAMES or MEMBERS.

 

DATE ELECTED.

AMOUNT PAID, 1867—8.

 

Subscription.

Donation.

 

 

*Aspinwall, Wm. H ..... 23 April, 186
Addoms, Charles ...... 23 “ “
Acton, Thomas C ...... 23 “ “
Anderson, Robert ...... 23 “ “

*Appleton, D. S ........ 21 May, “

*Alstyne, John ......... 5 J an., 1867
Aspinwall, Lloyd ...... 29 Nov., 1866
American News Go. . .. . 9 Man, 1867

*Anthony & Hall ....... 21 Oct, “
Appleton, Mrs. Wm.,

Boston ........... 15 May, “
Baldwin, Henry W. . . . . 1 Main, 1867

*Brady, James T.. . . . . . . 23 April, 1866

*Brown, James ......... 23 “ “
Brooks, Erastus ....... 23 “ “
Bellows, Henry W., Rev. 23 “ “
Bryant, Wm. C ........ 23 “ “

*Belmont, August ...... 23 “ “
Beach, Joseph P... . . . . . 23 “ “
Butterﬁeld, Daniel ..... 23 “ “

' Beach, Moses S ....... 23 “ “
Bristed, Chas. A ....... 23 “ “

*Bergh, Henry. . . . . 23 “ “
Bennett, J as. Gordon. . . 21 May, “

*Bixby, John M ....... . 21 “ “
Berghaus, Albert ...... 21 “ “
Banks, R. L., Albany. . 26 June, “

*Booth, Edwin ......... 23 April, “

*Ball, Black & Co ....... 20 NOV., “

 

 

 

 

 

 

ib'bo

566'60

500

idoIbo
éé'bo IIII
ibIbo

 

 

 

 

 

10 00 i560

00000

 

 

l
l
a,
l
l
,1,
g
I

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

,.__._, _. 1...._ r-. _<__».,_

 

 

NAMES OF MEMBERS.

DATE ELECTED.

AMOUNT PAID, 1867—8.

 

Subscription. Donation.

 

*Babeoek, Bros, & Co. . .
Brown, Mrs. Addison. .
*Bonner, Robert ........

Cooper, Peter .........
Ciseo, John J. ........
*Clews, Henry .........
*Cunard, Edward .......
Caldwell, Sam’l B ......
*Claﬂin, Horace B. & Co.
Colgate, Jas. B ........
Clark, J as. A ..........
Collins, Mrs. E. C ......
Craven, Alfred W ......
Cary, William F .......
*Colby, Gardner R ......
ieChittenden, S. B. & Co..
Conkling, Fred’k A. . . .
Campbell, A. H.. . . . . . .
*Corse, Israel ..........
*Crapo, John M ........
Connolly, Richard B... .

Dix, John A ..........
Daly, Charles P.. . . . . . .
Dilks, Geo. W .........
*Dunean, Wm. Butler. . .
*Dinsmore, Wm. B ......
*Dolan, Miss Ellen ...... '
Dailey, W. J. F. . .' .....
Dodge, Wm. E. .......
Dodge, Wm. E., Jr.,.. . .
*Delmonieo, Lorenzo, . . .
*Darling, Griswold & Co.

Elliott Geo. T., J r., M. D.

*Fish Hamilton ........
Fargo, Wm. G. _. .......

2 Man, 1868

 

 

 

 

 

 

4 May, “
23 April, 1866
23 (t H
23 H H

26 June, “
2ONOV., “

20 H (K
29 H (I
22 H (L

2 Man, 1867

5 April, “
21 Oct, “
21 H u
21 U H
15 Nov., “

7 Jan., 1868
6 April, “
6 H H

23 “

23 H H
21 May, “
21 Ma “

21 April, “
5 ' H (C
5 U H
19 June, “
'21 Oct, “

5 April, 1867 '

 

2311prﬂ,1866
21 May, . ,“

 

 

21(30u, 1867 500 00

5 00
100 00

10 00
10 00

10 00
L000 00
10 00
10 00

' 10 00
10 00 ....
10 00 15 00
250 00 ....
250 00
10 00
100 00
100 00
50 00

ib'bo
10 00

iés'bo

 

 

 

 

 

 

  




 

 

 

92

 

NAMES or MEMBERS.

DATE ELECTED.

AMOUNT PAID, 1867—8.

*

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Subscription. Donation.

Forsyth Russell ....... 31 “ “ . . . .

Francis, Sam’l W., M. D. 20 Nov., “ 10 00

Farrell, John .......... 2May, 1867 16 66

, *Faile, Thos. H.. . . . . . . . 10 Oct, “ 100 00
1 French, Richard ....... 4 May, 1868 25 00
Grinnell, Henry ....... 23 April, 1866
Greeley, Horace ....... 23 “ “
* Griswold, George ...... 23 “ “

Gallatin, James ........ 23 “ “

Gerard, James W ...... 23 “ “ . . . .

Gardner, A. K., M. D. . . 20 Nov., “ 10 00
*Gibert, Frederick E. . . . 27 Mar., 1867 . . . .

Gale, Wm., Jr ......... 21 Oct., “ 10 00
*Greer, Turner & Co.. 21 “ “ 100 00
*Garrison & Allen ...... 21 “ “ 100 00
*Garner & Co. ......... 21 “ “ 500 00
*Groesbeck, David & Co.. 21 “ “ 100 00

Hoffman, John T. ..... 23 April, 186 10 00 .

Hall, A. Oakey ....... 23 “ “ . . . . .

Hill, Geo. Waldo, M. D. 23 “ “ 10 00 .

Harper Brothers ....... 23 “ “ . . . . .

Hicks, Benj. D ........ 21 May, “ 5O 00 .

Haughwout, E. V ...... 21 “ “ . . . . .

Hoey, John ........... 21 “ “ 10 00 .

Hudson, E. D., M. D... . 21 “ “ 10 00 .
*Hicks, Mrs. Elizabeth T. 26 June, . “ . . . . ..

Hunt, Mrs. Washington. 20 Nov., “ . 0-
*Holland, Alexander. . . . 29 “ “ .

Howland, Meredith. . . . 29 “ “ . . . . . . . .

Hodgkins, Thos. G ..... 9 Jan., 1867 10 00 50 00

Herring, Silas C ....... 2 May, “ 16 66 . . . .

Hollis, Geo, Rev.... . . . 5 April, “ 5 00

Huntington, B. W ..... 21 Oct, “ 10 00
*Hoyt, S ragues & CO. . . 21 “ “ 500 00
*Howe, . C. & Co ...... 21 “ “ 250 00

Hosack,N.P ..... - ..... 21 “ “ 10 00

Hallgarten & Co ....... 15 N ov., “ 5O ()0

 

 




 

91

  
 

AMOUNT PAID, 1867-8.
NAMES OF MEMBERS. DATE ELECTED. ,______.__——————-—

Subscription. Donation.

 

 

 

  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 

Monheimer, Asher. . . . . 20 Nov., 1866

Mayer, John .......... 15 J an., 1867
Moore, Miss Maria L.. . . 5 April, “
Mudie, John .......... 5 “ “

Moore, Richard 11., MD. 5 “ “
Minturn, Thomas R. . . . 5 “ “
Mortimer, Richard .....

Menike, Mrs. Julia . . . . . 2 July, “
*Marett, Philip, New Ha—
ven ............... 24 Sept, “ . . . .
Morton, L. P .......... 21 Oct., “ 15 00
*Moller Wm. & Sons. . . 21 “ “ . . . .
*Mudge, E. R., Sawyer &
Oo ................ 21 “ “
*McLean, Geo. W ....... 4: Dee, “
Moore, William S ...... 7 J an, 1868
Morris, Chas. D ........ 2 Man, “
*Marshall, Chas. H ...... 2 “ “
Nash, Daniel D ........ 21 Oct., 1866
*Norrie, Adam. ........ 2 Mar., 1868
Olyphant, George T. . . . 23 April, 1866

Otto, Mme. Antoinette. . 20 Nov., “
*Osgood, Mrs .......... 15 Nov., 1867
*O’Brien, Wm. & John. . 4; Dec, “ =
*O’Gorman RicharcL . . . . 4 “ “

éé’bo

 

*Parish, Daniel ......... 23 April, 1866
*Packer, Daniel ........ 26 June, “
Parlg'Joseph, Jr ....... ,20 Nov., “
Perry, Oliver H ....... 2O “ “
Phenix, Phillips ....... 21 Oct., 1867
*Pomeroy, Adams & (30.. 21 “ “
Purser, George H ...... 15 Nov., “ . . . .
*Pell, Mrs. Mary ....... 7 Jan., 1868 50 00 5O 00

*Roberts, Marshall O. . . . 23 April, 186 100 00

Ruggles, Samuel B.. . .. 23 “ “ i 20 00

 




 

 

[r

 

 

 

 

 

 

AMOUNT PAID, 1867—8.
NAMES OF MEMBERS. DATE ELECTED.

Subscription Donation.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

*Roosevelt, C. V. S. . . . . 23 April, 1866 . . . . 100 00
Russell, Archibald ..... 23 “ . “ , 10 00 . . . . .
Russell, A. D. ........ 23 “ “ . . l
Rodman, Wash’n, Rev. . 20 Nov., “ . . . . . . . .. f
*Robbins, George A. . . . . 29 “ “ . . . . . . . . {a 1 Q
Reed, Isaac H. ........ 2 July, 1867 . . . . . . . . '
*Richardson, G. C. & Co. 21 Oct., “ 250 00
Robbins, Chandler ..... 2 Man, 1868 10 00
Steele, Edward G ...... 23 April, 1866 . . . .
*Stuart, Alexander ..... 23 “ “ . . . . 5O 00
*Stuart, Robert L ....... 23 “ “ . . . . 5O 00
Strong, Oliver S ....... I23 “ “ . . . . . .
*Stewart, Alexander T.. . 123 “ “ . . . .
Spies, Adam w.. . . . . . '21 May, “ 10 00
Southwick, Richard A.. 31 “ “ . . . . ,1 ,
*Suckley, Rutsen ....... 26 June, “
*Spofford, Paul ......... 26 “ “ . . . .
*Stebbins, Henry G ..... 20 N 0V., “ 100 00 . . . .
*Spotts & Hawk ........ 20 “ “ . . . . 100 00
Solomon, Barnett L.. . . . 5 April, 1867 . . . .
Solomon, Judah H ..... 5 “ “
Solomon, Isaac S ....... 5 “ “
*Stevens, Paran ........ 12 Feb., “
Speyers, James ........ 5 April, “ . . . . . . . . ..
Syme, Mrs. Cora A.'. . . . 5 “ “ 5 00 . . . . (1 ‘
Sherman, Elijah T ..... 2 May, “ 16 68
*Stokes, James ........ 31 J an., “ 100 00
Stokes, Anson G. P... . 31 “ “ . . . .
*Skinner, F. & Co ....... 21 Oct., “' 300 00
*Stanﬁeld, Wentworth &
Co ................ 21 “ “ 500 00
Spaulding, Hunt & (30.. 21 “ “ 250 ()0
Sands, Samuel S ....... 15 Nov., “ 50 00
*Sweeney, Peter B ...... 15 “ “ 100 00
, *Sherman, W. Watts . . . . 4 Dec, “ 100 00
Shook, Sheridan ...... 7 J an., 1868 50 00
Singer Manuf’g Co ..... 4 Feb, “ 25 00
Schell, Edward. . . . l . . . ~41: “ “ 5O 00

 

 

 




96

 

 

NAMES or MEMBERS.

DATE ELECTED.

. AMOUNT PAID, 1867—8.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Subscription. Donntion.
Sehell, Richard ........ 2 Mar., 1868 100 00
Squier, E. Gr .......... 6 April, “ . . . .
Sauer, Gr. W. ......... 21 Oct, 1867
Taylor, Thomas House. 23 April, 1866 20 00 - . . .
*Taylor, Moses ......... 23 “ “ . . . . 100 00
Trimble, Geo. T. ...... 23 “ “ 10 00 . . . .
Trimble, Merritt ....... 21 May, “ 10 00
*Tiﬁany, Chas. L ....... 21 “ “ - . . .
Tilford, John M. ...... 20 Nov, “ 10 00
Trevor, JohnB ........ 22 “ “ '10 00
Tousey, Sinclair ....... 5April,1867 10 00
Townley, D. O. C ...... 2 July, “ . . . .
*Tweed, Wm. M ........ 4Dee., “ 100 00
*Tilden, Sam’l J ........ 4 “ “ 100 00
Trimble, Mrs. Daniel. . . 7 Jan., 1868 10 00
Vansehaiek, Edwin H.. 15 Nov., 1867 25 00
*Wolfe, John D. . . . . . . . . 23 April, 1866 . .
*Webb, Wm. H ........ 23 “ “ . .
*Winthrop B. R ........ 3 “ " . . .
*Wood, Chas. B ........ 21 May, “ . . .
Wells, Henry ......... 21 “ “ 12 5O . . . .
Walker, Mrs. John . . . . 9 Jan, 1867 5 00b 50 00
*Waln, S. Morris ....... 14: Main, “ . . . . . . . .
Windle, Geo. B ........ 21 0013., “ 10 OO 15 00
Williams, John E ...... 21 “ “ 10 00 15 00
Wheatley, William . . . . 15 Nov., “ 10 00 . . . .
Webster, Horace ...... 2Mar., 1868 10 00
Whetten, William ..... 6 April, “ 10 OO

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

97

;%~._nm_.
1C

ADDITIONAL DONATION S.

 

Subscription. Donation.

 

Metropolitan Police Ofﬁcers :

MoGivney ............... 9 00
Fairﬁeld ................. 6 00
Van Tassell .............. -6 00 I §
Thomas ................. . . . . 6 00
Mahoney ................ . . . . 12 00
Totten ................... . . . . 3 00
Flanagan ................ 3 00
Berghold ................ 3 00
H. H. Lamport ............... 5 00
H. F. Goodson ............... 7 00
S. D. Carpenter .............. 8 00
Anonymous sums ............. . . . . 710 00 $1 A

 

11,670 00 2,223 00

 

 

Mmbers Elected at the Annual
Meeting, held 7th ﬂfay:

Barak 6.001% ............... 10 00 . . . . 3 1.
Harvey C. Coles .............. 10 00 . . . . I ‘2
Mrs. B. Gr. Coles .............. 10 00 . . . .

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

" :? >o~v,—-~,x——..— m, -r---2,, , ,




 

 

' York, 2 volumes, 1859, 1866.

98.

BOOKS, PAMPHLETS, AND NEWSPAPERS,
DONATIONS.

Documents of the Board of Supervisors of New
York City, 3 volumes, 1864-5.

Proceedings of the Board of Supervisors of New
York City, 16 volumes, 1809 to 1850, 1860 to
1866.

Laws Concerning Supervisors—Hoffman, 1866.
1 volume.

Laws of the State of New York, 1866, 2 vol-
umes. Pamphlets.

Laws of New York, 1864-56, 4 volumes.

Revised Statutes of the State of New York, 5
Ed, 4 volumes.

Laws of the State relating to New York City,
Valentine, 1 volume.

Corporation. Ordinance Organizing the Depart-
ment of New York, 1849, 1 volume.

Report of the County ‘of New York Commit-
tee on Volunteering, 8 volumes, 1863 to 1866, in-
elusive.

Corporation Ordinances of the City of New

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

99

Treatise on the Corporation of New York City,
Hoffman, 1853, 1 volume.

In Laws of New York City, Lawrence, 1863,
1 volume.

Metropolitan Board of Health, Code of Ordi-

nances, 1866, 1 volume.

Report of Special Committee on Investigation
of Contracts for Building New Court House in
New York, 1866, 1 pamphlet.

Maps of Senate and Assembly Districts in the
County of New York, 1866, 1 pamphlet.

Charter of New York, and Kent’s notes, 18,51, 1
volume.

All the above were donated by the Board of

Supervisors.

Diplomatic Correspondence of the United States,
1865, parts 1, 3, 3, 4, 5. Donated by B. A. South-
wick, Esq. ‘

Reports of the Department of Agriculture, U. S.,
for 1861, ’62, ’63, ’64, ’65, ’66. Donated by the
Department, 5 volumes.

Transactions of the New York State Agricultu-
ral Society, 1862, ’63, ’64, ’65, ’66, donated by the
Society, 3 volumes.

_ Patent Oﬂice reports, U. S., 1861, 1864, 3 vol-
umes, donated by the Patent Ofﬁce.

.4

 

 

' '1' 2.?! ' W

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

100

Sanitary Condition of New York City, 1866, 1
volume. Published by the Citizens’ Association,
and presented by the Association.

Illustrated Horse Management, 1865, 1 volume,
Mayhew. Illustrated Horse Doctor, 1866, 1 vol-
ume, Mayhew. Purchased.

Several elegant works on Dumb Animals, do-
nated by the Royal Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, London.

The Truck ; or the Why and Wherefore of Cat-
tle Diseases; by William Reid, 1865, 1 volume.

The Mule: a Treatise by H. Riley, 1867, 1. vol-
ume, donated by Messrs. French and Richardson.

Reports of the Iowa Agricultural Society, 1860
to 1866, 6 volumes. Report of the Adjutant-
General of Iowa for 1864, 1 volume, from J. M.
Shaffer, Secretary of the Society.

Census of the State of New York, 1865, 1 vol-
ume, donated by Hon. Henry C. Murphy.

A number of Documents from the Protective
Societies at Paris, Munich, etc.

Bulletin de la Société Royale Protectrice des
Animaux at Brussels, for the years 1863 to 1866,
4 volumes, donated by the Society; also their

Bulletins for January, February, March, April
“and November, 1867.

 




 

102

@hitnaty igewrh.

During the year the Society has had to mourn
the loss of the following distinguished Mem-

bers :

THOMAS GARNER, Esq.
‘ THOS. HOUSE TAYLOR, D. D.

 




 

 

 

 

 

103

To those who may feel disposed to donate by
WILL, to the benevolent objects of this
Society :—-the following is submitted as a

FORM OF BEQUEST.

I give and bequeath to the American Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, incor-

porated by the State of New York, the sum of

........................................................ Dollars.

 

 

 

 

 

FINALLY.

It should be remembered, by the wealthy and
benevolent of all conditions, that this Institution
is alone sustained by voluntary contributions; and
that every dollar donated to it extends the area of
its protection over the dumb dependants of man-

-- kind. '

1 All donations should be sent to the ofﬁce of the
Society, 696 Broadway, the receipts for which will
be publicly and privately acknowledged.

  
      
   
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
   
     
  
     

 




M» 1.5:, , ;f -‘ ~“ ‘

' V.- 104 +

A; - ~;.J.u~.~..ﬂ, .

=<~ AGENTS OF THE SOCIETY.

 

coo-

 

BINGHAM, J. F., . . . Newburgh, N1 Y., For Orange County.
CHUMASERO, J. C., . Rochester, “ “ Monroe County.

 

ﬁ CHAPIN, Gr. B., . . . . Ogdensburgh, “ “ St. Lawrence County

’ ‘Cf CARR, D. J ., ...... Schenectady, “ “ Schenectady County
GRIFFITH, L. E.,. . . Troy, “ “ Renssclacr County.
PARKHURST, J. F., . Bath, “ “ Steuben County.
STEPHENS, S.D.,Jr, . Richmond, . “ “ Richmond County.
TAYLOR, H. A., . . . . Malone, “ “ Franklin County.
IRWIN, JOHN C.,. . . Salem, ‘ “ “ \Vashington County
TOBITT, J. H., ..... Williamsburgh,“ “ W illimnsburgh.
BOND, F. W., ..... Cypress Hills, “ “ Cypress Hills.

 

 

 

 

 

A . r.‘-——¢——w

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

BRANCH SOCIETIES.

Erie County Branch, Buffalo, N. Y. r" d

Organized April 4,1867.

mot-ﬁgrtsibmts.

Hon. MILLARD FILLMORE,
Hon. HIRAM BARTON,
Com. STEPHEN CAMPLIN,
HENRY MARTIN, Esq.,

S. G. CORNELL, Esq.,

Hon. C. J. WELLS,

Hon. WM. KETOHUM,

WM. A. RIRD, Esq., .
NOAH H. GARDNER, Esq.,
JAMES MILLER, Esq.,

 

@xzmﬁbz Oﬁomnﬁttu.

Hon. ORLANDO ALLEN,
S. H. FISH, Esq.,

Capt. E. P. DORR,

Gen. R. L. HOWARD,
CHARLES ENSIGN, Esq.,
JOSEPH WARREN, Esq,
JASON SEXTON, Esq.,

R. D. SHERMAN, Esq.,

J. N. LARNED, Esq.,
MICHAEL MESMER, Esq.,

DANIEL D. NASH,

~—

SILAS KINGSLEY, PRESIDENT.

Rec. & Cor. Sec’y.

Hon. WM. Gr. FARGO,
Hon. GEO. R. BABCOCK,
GEO. W. TIFFT, Esq.,
GEO. HOWARD, Esq.,

E. G. GREY, Esq., ‘
Hon. E. G. SPAULDING, ‘2
Hon. E. S. PROSSER,

F. H. ROOT, Esq.,

S. G. AUSTIN, Esq.

 

  

B. C. RUMSEY, Esq.,

R. H. BEST, Late Sheriff,

W. W. STANNARD, Esq.,
GEO. J. BRYAN, Esq.,

JOHN D. SHEPARD, Esq.,

M. P. BUSH, Esq.,

STEPHEN W. HOWELL, Esq.,
RICHARD BULLYMORE, Esq.,
Com. JAMES ADAMS,

J. H. KOONS, Esq.

 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 

  
 

 

HENRY HOWARD,
Treasurer.

 

   




 

 

 

A1.

 

 

106

Brooklyn Branch, Brooklyn, N. Y.

Organized April 8, 1867.

JOHN GREENWOOD, PRESIDENT.

mtg-@rtsihmts.
GEORGE G. REYNOLDS, HORACE B. CLAFLIN,
ZENO CASE, SAMUEL BOOTH,
S. B. CHITTENDEN,

.—

A. F. MUDIE, M. D., Rec. Sec’y. EDWARD CARY, Cor. Sec’y
E. S. MILLS, Treasurer.

@xmuﬁbe dinmmittee.

JOHN GREENWOOD, E. LEWIS, Jr.,

E. M. JEVVELL, GEORGE I. BENNETT, M. D.,
G. W. PARSONS, FRANCIS PARES,

H. E. PIERREPONT, J. H. PRENTICE,

D. C. ROBBINS, ISAAC VAN ANDEN.

 




 

 

 

    
 

107’

STATE SOCIETIES,

Organized and Originating fr
the American Society for

Cruelty to Animals, at Moo York.

 

‘,

Pennsylvania Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

 

S. MORRIS WALN, PRESIDENT.

VICE—PRESIDEN TS.

W. A. PORTER,
J. B. LIPPINCOTT,

GEO. W. CHILDS,
W. C. SVVANN, M. D.,

W. J. HORTSMANN.

FERDINAND COXE, Secretary.

ROB’T R. CORSON, Treasurer.

\

Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

GEO. T. ANGELL, PRESIDENT.

VICE-PRESIDENTS.

A. H. BULLOCK, His Excellency,
WM. CLAFLIN, Lt. Governor,
OLIVER WARNER, Hon. Sec’y,
N. B. SHURTLEFF, His Honor,
JNO. J. WILLIAMS, Rt. Rev.,

M. EASTBURN, Rt. Rev.,

GEO. B. EMERSON, LL. D.,
GEO. C. SHATTUCK, Dr.,

ROB’T M. MASON,
PATRICK DONAHOE,
JAMES P. THORNDIKE,
JOSEPH B. GLOVER, .
ALBERT J. WRIGHT,
HENRY G. CLARK, Dr.,
C. ALLEN BROWNE,
EDWIN WRIGHT,

And eighty-four others throughout the State.

—*‘

CEPHAS BRIGHAM, Sec’y.
I. W. DENNY,

AMOS. A. LAWRENCE, Treas.

Agent.

om the Example of
the Prevention of

 

   
  
  
 

 

 




108

 

STATE SOCIETIESw-Continuedo

 

G‘e

 

California Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animalsg

" Organized at San Francisco

 

 

National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.)

Washoﬁgton, .D. 0.,

#5 35"?

 

t

 

 

 




)1
.s

v.“
>./\.._..
a .

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

AMERICAN SOCIETY

FOR THE ‘
Q I .' I
grwmtmn of @1112th to gummlg.

Incorporated by the State of Ne‘wl'orlc.

W...

SECOND

NNUAL REPORT.

 

 

Oﬂ‘icéLNO. 695 Broadway, corner Fourth Street,
- ' ' " NEW YORK

LANGE, HILLM \N & LANGE, Steam Book and Job Printers, 20? Pearl Street, N- Y-

 

 




 
     
 

AMERICAN SOCIETY

iguhmﬁnn uf @mslta to énimalg.

Incorporated by the State of N ewY ark. ,

_————-—-—.—.—.———————o~

SECOND

 

 

Ofﬁce, No. 696 Broadway, corner Fourth Street,
NEW YORK.

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




ix.
which code, when formed and adOpted at a regular
meeting, shall, until modiﬁed or rescinded, be equal-
ly binding as this act, upon the Society, its ofﬁcers
and members.

SEC. 6. This Society shall not, in its corporate
capacity, hold real estate exceeding in value, at
any one time, the sum of one hundred thousand
dollars.

SEC. 7. The police force of the city of New York,
as well as of all other places where police organiza-
tions exist, shall, as occasion may require, aid the
Society, its members, or agents, in the enforcement
of all laws which are now, or may hereafter be en-
acted for the protection of dumb animals.

SEO. 8. One-half of the ﬁnes collected through
the instrumentality of the Society, or of its agents,
for Violations of such laws, shall accrue to the bene-
ﬁt of said Society. I

SEC. 9. The provisions of this act shall be gen-
eral, within the boundaries of the State.

SEC. 10. This act shall takeeffect immediately.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




A AM»
”47%;;
4W ‘7
.. ‘ a

3%} {IV/7“ I} . : (1.7
7/77,)9/‘7/2/94 ‘

 

 

 

 

 

\

7:“

 

’ §§=u\‘\\§‘ ‘7. ,
“\\ .;\ 4

, SUPPOSED T. BE OVERLQADED

, [jg/1. f 17:. >

”77

I .7};

.
4
1/" r ”124% 7: 7 7 7 7, 4 7 7
. 1A .4 4, 7 A 4 7 7 7 77 77 7
I. ‘ \ * ' ‘ ' ”I I" ‘4’ 1 7 77 7 777 7 7 I
W > ’ a I" . l‘ I l N u x , v. /
. :er ~ A. - f '1 '. [I 7 . 7' .7 , 7 A A 7 ’7 7 I
‘ a, ‘ ‘ I , V 3 E ' , ' j‘ _" - . ; -' A 4 4
‘ by K “— v , . i 7 17 A I
A A \ 7/ I "75-“ ‘ -v" 47 4 ’4' , 2' ' 4 a I , A /
’ ‘77— “7: ‘ y A, 1/ ' 7 I: I] F -4 I A ‘ ‘7
- i V I‘ ~ ‘ k , . -' y t, I ' I
7" 1' 7, . I ’7]

u , " ; 7
., 7
I 7‘
if A.'?. 7
A ' 4/f'a'l':
I ' ‘— ‘ 141
h A 4‘. I
’ ' A , , 1
t I -‘ ’7 I 4
~4 A 4", A! I, A
v; ’ r 4
i 4 . ‘
4

421'
E
ES
E
530
E
44.:
Si
.4
a:
:2.
p.
m
C:
M
E-‘
«d
n:
E-1
m
D
.4
:3

F11
<q
o
a
<1
0
m
d
<1
91

W OF A CITY

v.3“: "
mlt'lﬁﬂ'

14 42:

”Y 4
l

. l

4 :77 _- 77 7 7 4' ‘4 7 L7 7 x
. 4 A 77 7 A 7 7’7 x 7 7 7 7
. ’ . . 7 7 77 1 I 777 7 7 7 7 7
. ' ’ A 7 7 7 7 7
, ' > y 7 7 7 7 7/ 7- 7 — J 7 7 7
t k I I ‘ i k . *A ;.. . 7 4
.- A. 7 . .2 4 A : . —. _ r7 7, 4.. 71 7
4 ,.- - \ 7 7 - . ’4, . 7 7 77 77 7 7
1 4 4t : - ' A A: 7 _ 7 7 7 ( ‘ k k x 7 A
4 , - 4’ l 4 . >7 - 7 A. . _ l. 4 4 7 I], 7
w-w » 7 ' yr‘ < . 7 .
A A V . ‘1‘ 77 l V: . i ' , ’ -:7 . ‘ .~‘\. 4 7 4
. 4 4 4 ,2 ‘ ' u ‘ , A ,. 4. A '7 . . 77 4 :1 7 x
. _ .1 4 k :_ - 7 7 7, ,’ W ,. 7. '77 7 7 7 77 7 7 7 7 7 7 k
k] in I“ ~ “I > I ’ A“ A V :‘ v _ , a 4 , 4
k t ‘ V I“ I I - ~. ’ -, - . v . ' 4 4 , ‘ , . , _ 4
A14 ; , . . - ‘4 u 4 , ~ ~ . ,, . 4 . 4 4, ~; , .. .‘ A 41mm“ _
; / . A 7 7 7 7 7 7 77 7
4 . . 4 4 4, . - _ _ 4 . - _ [A , _ 7 7 7 7 7 7 .
. 4., 4 _ . 7 . H 47 . . A 7 7 7 7‘ 77 7 7 7
. .,. ~ 4 A. . 77 777 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 y k 77
. , . . y . 77 77 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7
, 4 ’ 7 7 7 7 77
. 4 4, 7 A ‘ 77 7 7 7 77 ‘
._ _ , 4 . , ' 7 7 7 7 7A 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 77
4. - . . , . . , 7 7 7 I k I x A
‘ ’1 . l 4‘ '0 — _ 7 7
1 , . , ' ~ ' ,7 u " 7 77 7 7 7 7
k ' ‘y r- ‘ I I A 'l 7 _ - l4
‘ A r r I [A It I A I I l ‘ . .4 44‘ 4
H < : u 7 J I It ' ' I!" 1" A . ~., 4. r 7 > , . .,444
- _ 4. 4, . 7 77 7 7 7 I 7 7 7 7 '
. . A 4 '1 _ :4: ‘ 77 y ' I I. 7 7 7 7 k,
' l f‘ I", , A ‘ ' - ' z ‘ ‘ ”t . ‘ I u \ » - 4
A r "I i r > 1 ~ ' ~ ’7 l ‘ I ’ 4' ,I /, , 4 I 4 v 7 Qt . .4
l 1 4' A , I , '1 7 ‘ 7 77
. I 'A ‘ I k' . ‘ ‘ t ~ \ " , , .
> I V k ' V ' \ ‘ , 1 _ A4
‘ .r x4 / - 7 \ 7 7 777
‘ 7 7 A
I 77
.

“I 4

= 47/?”‘3'

 




    
    
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
   

16

resident and Directors. I
trate, but I have been told
sonally cognizant of the

Mr. Burgh—It is impossible to get the P
have had them before the committing magis
that I must be able to prove that they were per
fact. That is an utter impossibility.

Justice Bowling—We will wait the decision of the General Term.

Justice Kelly—There is no charge here of beating ; it is over-loading.

Mr. Berghu-I should like the question settled.

Justice Bowling—Where there is no statute to reach the case, we

must wait the decision of the General Term.
Mr. Bergh—The statute on the subject is perfectly clear.
Justice Bowling—It may be to your mind, but not to ours. Show
any act of cruelty to the animals.

Mr. Berghr—lt is cruelty to compel two horses to draw a car weigh-
ing over seven thousand pounds, in which there are packed a hundred

human beings.

The case went over.

 

The statute reads thus——

SEC. 1. If any person shall overdrive, overload, torture, torment,
deprive of necessary sustenance, or unnecessarily or cruelly beat, or
needlessly mutilate or kill, or cause or procure to be overdriv

be unnecessarily or cruelly beaten, or needlessly mutilat

i aforesaid, any 1i
i oﬁ‘ence, be guilty of a misdemeanor.

at all, is regarded with astonishment.

 

 

 

 

en, over-

loaded, tortured, tormented, or deprived of necessary sustenance, or to
ed or killed, as

ving creature, every such offender shall, for every such

Now, it seems to be a question with the justices,
whether the statute contemplates overloading of
street cars. That such a point should have arisen

Can it be reasonably pretended that the quality
of the load is discriminated by the statute; or that
the poor horse, could he be made conscious of the

  

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

;__._~—.A “4.4—4“ ‘ ‘ ‘ "e , " 1 A =- - "T . -mm—é—w—. _.

 

 

23

you among us as a member of this Society, I will take the necessary

measures for your election at the next meeting of the Executive Com- '

mittee. I have the honor to remain your most obedient servant,

HENRY BERGII.

P. S. Regarding our correspondence as likely to beneﬁt the cause of
mercy to the lower animals, if given to the public, will you kindly as-
sent to its publication ‘2 H. B.

NEW YORK, Dec. 20, 1867.
HENRY BERGH, Esq.

DEAR SIR: In answer to your polite favor of the 18th, may I be per-
mitted to state, that having in view the idea you express, that my
presence at the slaughter-house may have induced the butcher and his
employes to be more expeditious and careful than usual, and desiring
to aﬁ‘ord you and your noble cause the most entire cooperation, I shall
(D. V.) pay the eastern sections of our city stated visits, and assist you'
by my humble efforts, that your desires and our laws may be most
rigidly observed. Regarding your inquiry, whether the butcher has
the power, according to Jewish law, to produce insensibility before
killing, I answer in the negative ; and permit me to add that it is not
required. Death by the peculiar knife is instantaneous, and there is no
valid reason why insensibility should be produced by stunning the ani—
mal and then kill, when the preparatory step must certainly occupy
time and augment suffering. Believe me, dear sir, that our code of
laws on the subject, containing upwards of 80 sections, has taken into
consideration every plan that may tend to spare pain to the animal,
and at the same time to prevent injury to the beings who are permitted
to partake of its food, by examining, after death, to observe whether
the animal was in sound health. As regards the publication of our
correspondence, if you think it likely to beneﬁt the cause you have so
much at heart, you have my full assent. Again wishing you every
success in the cause of benevolence you have brought into life, I am,
my dear Sir, respectfully yours,

S. M. ISAAC-S.

It will be perceived that the mode of slaughter-
ing animals for food, required by the Hebrew
faith, although not regarded with favor by the
Society, cannot preperly be interfered with.

 

 




‘ m_m ___ ﬁx,
A" 1 ‘T ‘ ‘ ‘v—Mﬁi

 

 

 

31

vation of the health of animals for human food,

be general in its application.

§ 12th. All ﬁnes and forfeitures to belong to
the. Society.

§ 18th. This act to take effect immediately.

The ﬁrst, ﬁfth, eleventh, twelfth, and thirteenth,
were suffered to remain, and the new bill was print»
ed; but even this shadow of the original, died of in-
anition in the House where it originated.

The necessity of the 4th section of the proposed

Act in regard to the appointment of Inspectors, is

shown by the following extract from a Rochester,
N. Y., paper:

“Having been put in possession of information that 1e ads to the be
lief that extensive arrangements are now being made for the slaughter
of diseased animals for the markets of New York, Rochester, and other
cities, we deem it a duty to the public to make known the facts, and,
if possible prevent the consummation of the design. It is. well known
that the sheep, 1n some sections of Western New York, are seriously
affected with what are called the “ foot root ” and “ scab. "’ These dis
eases are of such a character as to render the meat of the animal wholly
unﬁt to be eaten. Yet, such are, no doubt, often slaughtered and
dressed for the market.

“In Livingston county, many of the ﬂocks are diseased, and the own-
ers are disposing of the sheep at merely nominal prices. Sheep can
be had there at sixty- -threc cents per head, and the pelt is worth that
sum. We understand that a party is building ,at or near the village of
Hemlock Lake, a slaughter-house, wherein diseased sheep are to be
dressed and put up for man ket. We have the names of the pioprietors.
of the establishment, and unless they can give the public the most sat~
isfactory assurance that they will not oifer, as an article of food, any of.
the diseased sheep which they may slaughter, we shall give their
names and put the public on guard, reo a1 diess of the consequences.

v -; in "-‘P‘w -_ ’tv‘w , .,1:\= h‘wafwu .

 

'f‘s. ,




 

 

88

The debates were marked by great ability, and
much information was disseminated among the
members and the publie

LIVE STOCK INSURANCE COMPANIES.

These associations are a new and fruitful source
of suffering to the creatures insured by them. Be:-
peated instances of prolonged cruelty have come
to the knowledge of the Society, where the conﬂict-
ing interests of the insurers and insured, have re»
sulted in the abandonment of horses, disabled past
recovery, to die a lingering death.

The Secretary cannot regard these institutions
~=—some of which have urgently solicited the appr0«
val of this Societyﬂotlierwise than as incentives to
mercenary torture and death ; along with fraud of
a most sinister character on the stockholders. It
is needless to say that these pecuniary interests
will never be permitted to suspend the operation
of the laws of this State, providing for the merci-
ful destruction of a suffering dumb creature, found
under circumstances authorizing such action. ‘

SUMMARY.

The Secretary, in concluding this Report of the
proceedings of the Society for the past year, ven-
tures to express the belief that, although a vast
amount of incidental matter is necessarily omitted

' therefrom, there is in it ample to satisfy its members

and the public at large, that the Institution has
more than. sustained the honorable distinction it

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

   

 

    

46

from inability to attend the meetings of the Com-
mittee, and the latter by his continued absence
from the city. They ‘have elected N. P. Hosack
and Wm. McMurray to ﬁll the vacancies thus cre-

ated.

7. In this clause the Committee are restricted
to the incurring of any liability on the part of the
Society, to $1,000, and have kept themselves Within
this judicious limit.

8. The Committee are authorized to remit the
annual dues of any member of the Society.

Under this clause, your Committee have remitted
the annual dues of Archibald II. Campbell, for the
ensuing ﬁscal year; in consideration of his valuable
services in aid of the objects of the Society.

9. It is provided that no salary shall be allowed
to any member of the Executive Committee, except
the Secretary; and they have complied therewith;
and availing themselves of the Secretary of the So-
ciety, have allowed no salary for his services to this

Committee.

10. The Committee having power to ﬁll vacan-
cies occurring in their own body, have availed
themselves of that power as follows: upon the
resignations of General Daniel Butterﬁeld, Messrs.
Joseph P. Beach, and Wm. Coventry H. Waddell,
they elected Messrs. Sinclair Tousey, Oliver H.
Perry, and John Mudie to ﬁll the vacancies.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

53

“‘Nothing,’ says Lavalette, ‘tends more to de-
moralize the public mind and develop the instincts
of cruelty in children, than the spectacle of that
fait/afulfricnd and companion of man being mur-
dered or tortured in the public streets ;’ that crea-
ture of which some one has said:

“‘ With eyes upturned, his master’s look to scan,
The joy, the solace, and the aid of man ;
The rich man’s guardian, and the poor man’s friend,
The only creature faithful to the end.’

“I have the honor to be, Mr. Mayor,
“ Your most ob’t servant,

“ HENRY BERGH.”

To this resolution and letter the Mayor replied
as follows:

“MAYOR’S OFFICE,
New York, April 14, 1868. ,

“HENRY BERGH, Esq, President, &c.:

“DEAR SIR: I acknowledge receipt of your favor
of yesterday, enclosing copy of a resolution of your
Society, relating to rewards for capture of dogs.
I will reduce the reward to the sum named——
twenty-ﬁve cents, and will. give orders that no dogs
shall be received from any person under eighteen
years of age.

 

“If persons of mature age bring the animals to
the Pound, the keeper has no means of knowing
whether boys have“ ‘captured them.’

 

 

 




 

 

59

May 16. John Goray, driving a lame horse. Fined ten dollars by
Justice Dowling.

May 18. John Ranscher, cruelly whipping and overdriving his team.
Fined ten dollars by Justice Dowling.

May 18. Alexander Miller, driving a horse before a loaded wagon
with a sore breast. Fined ten dollars by Justice Dowling.

May 18. James Durkin, driving a calf with a broken leg. Five days
in prison.

May 20. Sidney Mounsier, catching and conﬁning cats in his yard.
and setting dogs on them. Discharged by Justice Dowling.

May 21. John Delamater, driving a horse with sore leg. Judgment
suspended by request of complainant.

May 21.. John R. Wilson, beating a horse with a cart-rung. Fined
ten dollars.

May 21. Joseph Frank, and L. Lewensky, striking a horse with a bar
of iron. Fined each ten dollars.
a
May 23. P. Cassidy, driving two calves through the streets by cruelly
twisting their tails. Fined. two dollars and ﬁfty cents by
Justice Dowling.

May 28. Thomas Ryan and Geo. Grove, for driving a horse with a
large sore on its shoulder. Fined ten dollars each by Justice
Dowling.

May 28. Patrick Ward, brutally killing a disabled horse. Fined ten
dollars by Justice Dowling.

May 28. N. Hendricks, striking and kickinga dog. Fined ﬁve dollars
' by Justice Kelly.

May. 28. Wm. Maxwell, abusing a horse. Fined ten dollars.

May 30. A. Foyle, Morrisania, tying calves and piling them in his
wagon, and in one or two instances, conﬁning them in pens
until starved to death. Justice Taylor, of Yonkers, before
whom this complaint was made, issued a warrant for the ar-
rest of Foyle, but on our Society pressing the complaint, decided
he had no jurisdiction ! l

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

67

Nov. 13. Frank Rourke, driving a horse with running sores. Locked
up two days, and as he expressed great contrition, was dis-
missed by Alderman Coman.

Nov. 14. George Longstaﬂ‘, beating his horse on the head with the
butt end of a whip. Fined ten dollars by Justice Dow ling.

N CV. 16. Francis J. Nagle, driving a horse with a sore under the col.
lar. Fined ten dollars by Justice Dowling.

Nov. 16. William Irwin, driving a horse with a sore back, and beating
him. Fined ten dollars by Justice Dowling.

N (W. 16. Robert Johnston, driving a horse with sores. Fined twenty
dollars and ten days in prison by Justice Dowling.

Nov. 16. Owen McNulty, abandoning a horse with one leg broken.
Fined ten dollars by Justice Dowling.

Nov. 19. William Sproull, driver of N o. 1, Cross Town Railroad line,
driving two horses with sores under the collars. Although
the facts were not diSproved, the prisoner was acquitted by
Justice Dowling.

Nov. 19. William McGlyn, driving a horse with a sore on its back.
Acquitted by Justice Dowling.

Nov. 19. J. ‘C. Figuire, for shooting 'a dog. The testimony showed
that the animal was a trespasser, and the prisoner was acquit'
ted by Justice Dowling.

Nov. 19. A complaint was made against stage No. 33 of the Twenty-
third street and Broadway line, running two horses with sore
backs. Abandoned.

Nov. 19. In regard to an old horse worn out and left exposed to the
weather near West Fifty-ninth street and Ninth avenue, the
Society ascertained by personal inquiries that it had been
taken away. 9

Nov. 19. James Higgins, driving a lame horse. Fined ten dollars by
Justice Dowling.

Nov. 23. John Brill, tying geese and ducks by the legs. Fined ten
dollars by Justice Dowling. .

Dec. 5. George W. Bennet, for overloading and beating his horses.
Fined ten dollars by Justice Dowling.

 

 

 




 

 

 

   
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
   
  
   
  
   
  
 

74

April. 9. Alexander Hoover, driving a horse with a sore shoulder, on
its way to Jamaica. Fined ten dollars by Justice Dowling.

April 11. James Delaney, packing a goat in a barrel with its feet tied.
Held by Justice Connolly in $200 to keep the peace for eta:
months!

April 14. Edward Flynn, driving alame and sick horse. Fined ten
dollars by Judge Dowling.

April 14. Michael McDermott, driving a blind horse with a putrid
sore on its back. Fined ten dollars by Judge Dowling.

April 16. John Liebert, driving a horse with a lame foot. Fined ten
dollars by Judge Dowling.

‘ April 16. Anthony Wethel, selling a horse covered with sores and

unﬁt for use. Discharged by Justice Connolly.

April 16. Patrick Avery, leading two horses from the horse-market
so lame as to be almost unable to walk. Discharged by J us-
tice Connolly.

April 18. James Connolly, driving a horse with sores. Fined ﬁve
dollars by Justice Kelly.

April 21. Marcus Fleischhauer, depriving Cattle of necessary suste-
nance, in the premises 173 Stanton street. Fined ﬁfty dollars
by Justice Kelly.

April 21. Henry Kneif, superintending a street cock ﬁght in West
Broadway. Fined ten dollars by Justice Kelly.

April 22. A. P. Johnston, having a calf tied by the legs in a wagon.
Dismissed by the Grand Jury.

April 27. Thomas Feeley, encouraging dogs ﬁghting. Dismissed by
Justice Connolly.

April 27. A cab-driver, arrested for washing his cab at the fountain
in Union Square. Dismissed by Justice Dodge.

April 30. Francis Butler, cutting dogs’ ears. Dismissed by Grand
Jury.

April 30. John Franz, driving a lame horse. Fined ﬁve dollars.

 

 

 

 

 




85

scribed in this or some other Statute, shall be pun-
ished by imprisonment in a county jail not eX-
ceeding one year, or by ﬁne not exceeding two hun-
dred and ﬁfty dollars, or by both such ﬁne and
imprisonment.

 

 

-————eoo——-—

 

SUGGESTIONS
FOR THE

Guidance of persons desirous of prosecuting in-
dividuals guilty of Orueltg to Animals.

 

 

There are three modes of proceeding, Viz. : I. By
giving the offender into the custody of a Policeman,
Constable, or other Ofﬁcer. II. By the issue of a
Summons. III. By the apprehension of the Ac-
cused under a warrant.

I.

By giving the Ofender into tite custody of an Oﬁcer
authorized to make Arrests.

This is the best course to adopt when the of-
fence is committed within the City of New York,
and all other towns where Magistrates sit daily, as
the person can be conveyed immediately into
Court and punished forthwith. If a Policeman or

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




‘mxrvéQEM -.a‘.~ x ‘- 9—..—

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

93

 

NAMES OF MEMBERS.

DATE ELECTED.

‘V

AMOUNT PAID, 1867-8.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

,«VV-‘ok ...}.r. .. .

 

Subscription. Donation.

Isaacs, S. M., Rev ...... 7 Jan, 1868 10 00
*J ones, John D ......... 23 April, 1866
*Jaffray, Edward S ..... 21 May, “ . . . .

Johnson, Rowland ..... 5April,1867 10 00

Jenkins, Charles E ..... 5 “ “ 10 00
*Johnston, John Taylor. . 7 Oct., “ 100 00
*Jenkins & Vail. . . . . . . . 21 “ - “ 250 00
*Jaokson, Gr. R., Burnet

& 00., ............. 4 Dee, “ 100 00

Knapp, Shepherd ..... 23 April, 1866 20 00

Kennedy, JohnA ...... 23 “ 10 00

Kingsland, A. 0 ....... 23 “ “ . . . .

Kingsland, D. 0., ...... 23 “ “ . . . .
*Kendall, deyke & 00.. 21 Oct, 1867 500 00
*Lenox, James ......... 23 April, 1866 . . . . 100 00

Leonard, James ........ 23 10 00 . . . .
*Leslie, F1 ank ......... 23 “ “ . . . . . . . .
*Lyle, John S .......... 21 May, “ 100 00
*Lord, JohnT ......... 21 “ “

Ludlow, EdW’d 11.. . . 21 “ “ 10 00

Livingston, Mrs. C ..... 26 June, “ 5 00
*Law, George .......... 20 Nov., “ . . . .

Low, Abiel A ......... 20 “ “ . . . .
*Loekwood, Le Grand. . . 18 July, 1867 100 00
*Langley, Wm. 0. & 00.; 21 0013., “ 250 00
*Lea,J.&J.T.&00....21 “ “ 100 00
*Lathrop,Ludingt0n&00. 21 “ “ 250 00
*Low, Harriman & 00.. . 21 “ “ 250 00

Ludlum, Nicholas ..... 7 J an., 1868 25 00

McCloskey, John ...... 2.3 April, 1866 10 00

MoMurray, William” .23 “ 1,0 00
*Murray, John B ....... 21 May, “ . . . .

Morgan, Homer ....... 21 “ “ 10 00
. Murray, Mrs. John B.. . 26 June, “ 5 00

Morris, B. 0., Jr ....... 20 Nov., “ 10 00

4.-...‘4 '

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

101

Bulletins de la Société Protectrice des Animaux
at Paris, for the years 1846, ’47, ’52, ’53, ’55, ’56,
’57, ’58, ’59, ’60, ’61, ’62, ’64, ’65, ’66, in all, 12
volumes; and their bulletins Mensuels for 1863,
’66 and ’67.

The following periodicals are generally sent us
free of charge.

New York City Directory, donated by, H. Wil-

son. .
New York Sunday Dispatch.
New York Citizen.
Wilkes’ Spirit of the Times.
Frank Leslie’s Illustrated Weekly.
Scottish American.
The Nation.
The Home Journal.

Harper’s Weekly.

However desirable it is to possess as many daily
journals as possible for reference, yet the Secretary
abstains from applying for them, because of the
constant and invaluable beneﬁts, editors are al-
ready aff'ording the cause through their generous
columns. ‘

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

.ple, Geo. C. Hiekox, Jasper Babcock, J. A. Woodson.

Ofﬁcers of the San Francisco Society, 1868.

 

PRESIDENT,

DR. HENRY GIBBON S.

VICE-PRESIDENT,

WALTER VAN DYKE.

TREASURER,

JAMES S. HUTCHINSON.

COR. SEC’Y,

J. A. WOODSON.

REc. ssc’v,
WILLIAM P. SCOTT.

 

Extracts.

Frank MeCoppin, H. H. Byrne, Henry Gibbons, Isaac
Rowell, J. B. Roberts, Thos. B. Lewis, James S. Hutchin-

I son, Walter Van Dyke, Alpheus Bull, Ira P. Rankin, J.

W'. Stowe, Robert B. Swain, M. J. O’Connor, Anson Gr.
Stiles, A. Helbing.

 

antnrp'umturﬁ.

E. Casserly, F. V. Scudder, H. P. Coon, B. M. Harts-
horn, E. W.-Burr, P. Sather, R. Beverly Cole, Horatio
Stebbins, H. D. Lathrop, H. M. Scudder, Thos. H. Selby,
J. W. Clark, A. B. Forbes, H. M. Newhall, Lewis C.
Gunn, B. P. Avery, W. F. Babeock, Peter B. Forster,
J as. W. COX, Wm. P. Scott, W. P. Mofl‘at, W. H. Dalrym-

 

  
    
  
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
    

_ .1}
27"

 




