 

 

 

May 1958

THE ANIMAL WORLD 51

 

 

If the Press can help us bring this prob—
lem home to the general public it will be
alleviating the greatest problem of animal
cruelty in this country—cruelty which is
not often intentional but comes mainly
through carelessnes and neglect.

4/ NOT FOR RESEARCH!

I
' l

Following announcements by the Press of the
RSPCA’S ﬁndings on the problem of stray and
unwanted animals, Dr W. LanevPetter, hon
secretary of the Research Defence Society, ad—
dressed a letter to The Times (where it was pub
lished under the heading: ‘Cats for Research’)
suggesting that subscribers to the RSPCA press
their governing body to make stray animals,
‘Which would otherwise be slaughtered, available
for medical research’.

His letter concluded: ‘Despite the admirable
work in other ﬁelds of animal welfare carried out
by the RSPCA, it is thus pertinent to ask whether
a Royal Charter should be held by a body so una
willing to recognize the needs of research even
under conditions which it, itself, could help to
lay down.’

The RSPCA lost no time in ﬂouting any sug—
gestion that it should betray in such a way the
animals entrusted to its care. A letter signed by
thedChief Secretary was sent to The Times. It
rea :

‘Dr Lane/Fetter invites subscribers to the
RSPCA to press their governing body to make
stray animals, which would otherwise be de—
stroyed, available for medical research; and he
further suggests that failure to agree to his pro;
posal might justify the removal of the Royal
Charter. _

‘It is difﬁcult to comprehend a mentality which
is bounded entirely by considerations of ﬁnance
and general expediency and which ignores coma
pletely the fundamental aspect of animal welfare
that is involved. .

‘It is quite true that a large number of stray and
unwanted cats and dogs have to be humanely
destroyed each year. In very many cases animals
are brought to the RSPCA by their owners for

that express purpose; in other cases it becomes

necessary to destroy them because of illness or
injury. So far as the healthy stray animal is con
cerned, it is destroyed only if all attempts to ﬁnd
it another home have failed.

Specious
‘The suggestion that the destruction of animals

by the RSPCA is a procedure which, on the
Whole, may inﬂict as much discomfort and pain
as most experiments conducted for research pure
poses is a specious one and it is perhaps apprOv

 

GINGER’S TRAVELS ARE OVER

:\'\‘-\\}\-‘.3‘N\‘_. \ x ‘

«i \
\

Photograph by
courtesy of
Birmingham Post
and Mail

The delighted
owner is Mr .
Reed, Penge East
(London) Rail-
way ' Station
Master, who had
just been re-
united with Nim-
bus, lost for two
weeks.

Nimbus was
bitten by the
wanderbug when he saw a van outside his home at Penge.
When the van stopped at Birmingham he jumped out. He
was fed by kindly folk until one of them recognized him
from a ‘Birmingham Mail’ news story. ‘The Mail’ reported
that the RSPCA had been asked to help trace the cat

 

priate to emphasize that in the case of the
RSPCA it is always open to the owner of an
animal to be present when his pet is destroyed,
and ‘to satisfy himself that the method employed
is humane. Further, the suggestion is an u‘nworthy
and unwarranted reﬂection upon the staff carrying
out this thankless task with efﬁciency and hu«
manity at all times.-

‘It is implied that there need be no anxiety in
handing over animals for research as experi—
mentation is controlled strictly by the Home
Ofﬁce. Whilst not suggesting that those licensed
to carry out experiments are other than humane
people, it has to be said that some experiments
carried out under special licence are not accom’
panied by anaesthesia and must entail suffering.
Furthermore, it is a matter of concern to many
that the “strict control” referred to is in the main
carried out by ﬁve Inspectors only. In View of the
vast number of experiments now conducted, this
number of Inspectors is surely inadequate for the
exercise of a strict control. At present, the In;
spectors are all medical men and the veterinary
profession is entirely unrepresented. There is
clearly a need for veterinary surgeons to be
appointed to complement the medical profession.

‘It must be made absolutely clear—and this is
a fundamental principle—that all animals placed
into the hands of the RSPCA are regarded as
being subject to a special trust. Under no circum—
stances whatsoever could the Society ever volune
tarily relinquish any animal placed in its care to a
research establishment; as to do so would consti—
tute a grave breach of that trust. It is surely
paradoxical to ask an animal welfare society to act

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

@WEFORMS

HOBSON & SONS
(LONDON) LTD

All inquiries 10

154-164 TOOLEY STREET
LONDON BRIDGE S.E.1

Manufacturers of

UNIFORM CLOTHING
CAPS HELMETS LEATHER
BELTS POUCHES etc. etc.

Gold and Silver Laces
Embroideries of every

description for ALL
UNIFORMED SERVICES

PATTERNS OF CLOTH

 

 

 

and ESTIMATES

Telephone: HOP 2476 (3 lines) will be forwarded free of charge

Telegrams: HOBSON, SEDIST, LONDON

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

has DAY

"WT—i TEMPLE cox CAPTIVE”
GOODS l

BOLT SLAUGHTERING
GUNS

Specially recommended and used by the RSPCA

THREE MODELS—ALL SILENT IN
ACTION

PLASTIC BADGES

LIST 0N APPLICATION

THE UNIVERSAL BUTTON CO. LTD.

1-9 Birkbeck Street, Bethnal Green, LONDON, E.2
Telephone: BIShopegate 5750 Telegram: 'Unibuteo Edo’

Lb; «g _ , , 7 - 7 ,!_,ALL.

 

 

 

l
l

 

Ls M y f ‘UNIVERSAL’ for all animals
‘SMALLS’ for all small animals

WOOL WANTED ‘MARK 6’ for all animals. Designed for heavy

The response to the most recent appeal for wool
has been so encouraging that we have been asked
to l’ePeat it.

Odd balls of wool, suitable for making up into
Squares for dog blankets are needed urgently. Kind
°|k Wishing to help are asked to send wool to:

Mrs John Cope,
cfo RSPCA, IOS Jermyn Street,
London, S.W.|.
Parce|s will be acknowledged.

use in large Abattoirs and Freezing Works

 

TEMPLE COX DEVELOPMENT CO. LTD
HIGH STREET, BROMLEY, KENT

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

THE OFFICIAL MAGAZINE OF THE RSPCA

 

Vol LIII No 5 New Series

MAY 1958

PRICE FOURPEN CE

6s. per annum. Post Paid

 

 

HOMELESS

 

H omeless—unwanted

Determined to educate the public to a sense of its
responsibility for the suﬁerings of homeless and un»
wanted animals, the RSPCA invited the Press and
broadcasting authorities to a Conference at RSPCA
Headquarters in London. '

Mr J. S. Hobhouse (Chairman of the Council’s
Homeless Animals Sub~Committee) was introduced
‘to a large body of journalists representing all the
influential daily papers and news agencies. He
recorded a statement for the BBC and subsequently
broadcast in the popular Saturday evening programme:
‘In Town Tonight’. (The subject was also mentioned
in a BBC Television programme.)

' Mr Hobhouse, who was introduced to the Press by
Mr J. Hall, Chief Secretary, ﬁrst asked the question:

Why is the RSPCA worried about home—

less animals?

 

‘ His views, which were widely reported, were based
on this statement, which he had prepared for distri—
bution to those attending the Conference.

Statement

We are worried about dogs. What more pitiful
sight is there than a dog rushing from person to
person in the street looking for his master and
then rushing across the road to the inevitable
screeching of brakes—injury, and perhaps death.

We are even more worried about the cat,
because there is such a vast stray, homeless and
unwanted population.

Thousands are humanely destroyed every year,
of which onerthird are strays and over half are
unwanted.

What is the RSPCA doing about the problem
of the stray?

A
CHERISHED
PET

Mr Ian Watts, Richmond, SUrrey, says

this is what happened when Puss de-

cided to help with the Christmas
decorations

 

A WARNING

The two centre pages are devoted to reports—in text and pictures—of RSPCA prosecutions

. ,

ANIMALTHEWORLD .

   




 

May 1958

——i

Cheshire (Altrincham) CotTee morning, Mrs Twisse (Sale
aux hon sec), £26. -
Cornwall——Mid AM (Truro aux). The speaker was Mr
Roland Ampleford, Parliamentary Organizer at Head-
quarters.

Essex—Mid, Brentwood, Chelmsford, Romford and District
AM (branch). Speaker was Major Chapman.
Essex—South-West Dance, Mrs Paul (Forest Gate aux
hon sec), £15.

Fylde AM (branch). The Mayor of Lytham St Annes
(Coun Mrs I. Coope) presided. Speaker was Mr Luetchford.
Gloucestershire—Mid Dance and skilTle, £11. Coffee morn-
ing, Miss Worth (asst hon sec), £25.

Hampshire—South, and Portsmouth Whist Drive, Mrs E.
Hunter (Bedhampton and Farlington aux hon sec), £14 5s.
Isle of Wight Ryde, jumble sale, Miss H. M. Parkes
(Binstead aux hon sec), £21 75.

Lancashire—East, and Blackburn AM (Burnley aux). The
speaker was Mr Tolhurst.

Newcastle-upon-Tyne Jumble sale, Mrs Macmillan,
£6 3s. 3d. for Bedlington Clinic.

Northurnberland West Hexham, variety show at Forum
Cinema, Mr M. lley (branch hon sec), £75.
Pembrokeshire—Mid and North Neyland, presentation of
RSPCA certiﬁcate of merit to David Orchard of Haverford-
west for rescuing a goat from the ﬂooded river Cleddau, and
brooch and book to Miss Pat Morris of Neyland who
resizlued a cat which had fallen into a cavity between two
wa 5.

Newport, whist drive, Miss Bosvile (aux hon sec), £10 105.

Neyland, concert, Mr W. E. Winter (branch hon sec),
£10 43. 10d.

Rochdale AM (branch). '

AM (Heywood aux). The Mayor (branch president)
attended. Dr McPhail (Council member) addressed the
meeting.

Southport, Birkdale and District AM (branch). Speaker
was Mr Luetchford.

Southport, prize giving, Miss Richards (branch hon sec),
awards made by the Mayor (branch president).
Suffolk—East, and Ipswich AM (branch). Lord Ailwyn
(branch president and Council member) presided and gave
an introductory talk. The speaker was Major Chapman.
Sussex—West, and Brighton Horsham, whist drive, Mrs
Weaver, £9 103. .
Wakeﬁeld and District Dewsbury, dance, Miss J. Lister
(aux hon sec), £84.

Worcestershire—West and Malvem AM (branch). Mrs A.
Harrison (branch hon sec), took the chair. Speakers: Mr
Tolhurst and Mr D. S. Summerﬁeld.

 

THE ANIMAL WORLD 59

Yorkshire—Bradford and District Shipley, jumble sale, Mrs
Moore (aux hon sec), £20.

Yorkshire—Bridlington, Malton and District Coffee morn-
ing, held at the home of Mrs Jamron, £25 1s. 9d.

 

SEYMOUR HALL

Seymour Hall jumble sale, sum raised £260;
participating: Headquarters, ‘Caged Bird Fund’,
West London Branch, Enﬁeld Branch, Highgate
Branch, Finchley Clinic and Animal Aid and
Welfare Club.

 

 

 

OVERSEAS

Seychelles AM (branch). Mrs Thorp (Patron of the Branch)
presided. Lady Netherdole (president) addressed the
meeting.

COLLECTIONS

(We give, wherever possible, the place at which the collection
was made and the name of the organizer or organizers.)

House—to—House

£ 5. d.

Aston—on—Trent, Mrs Baggerley (aux hon
sec) 14 14 0
Littleover, Mrs Brownhall (co aux hon sec) 4 9 0

Littleover, Mrs Welch Brown (co aux hon
sec) 11 7 6
Littleover, Mrs Brettell 5 10 9
Bournemouth and District 180 19 11
Ringwood, Mrs Felling (aux hon sec) 77 11 3
Doncaster, Mr J. Morrison (branch hon SEC) 16 18 4

Flag Day

£ 5. d

Chippenham (Mrs D. Wheeler, branch hon
sec) 109 11 8

Spaniel Boxes
Portsmouth (Mrs Hunter), £6 45.; Bristol, £20; Hants,

. New Forest Area, £107 123. 4d.; Liverpool (1957 total),

£469 105. 4d.; Liverpool (two months 1958) £52 55. 4d.;
Southampton (1957 total), £219.

 

Forthcoming Flag Days
Notiﬁed up to time of going to Press on March 28

Aberford, Garforth and Barwickvin-
Elmet (Leeds Branch) Saturday, June 7
Bacup, Lancashire Saturday, May 17
Bangor Saturday, May 3
Bedfordshire County Saturday, June 14
Bridlington . Saturday, May 31
Brigg, Lincolnshire Thursday, May 29
Birkenhead andWirral Branch Saturday, May 3
& Saturday, May 24

Burgess Hill, Sussex Saturday, June 14
“TY, Lancashire (including Rams—
ottom and Tottington) Saturday, May 24
.. , Saturday, May 10
Saturday, June . 14
Saturday, June 21

Cardiff . . .
Chorley, near Preston . .
Codicote, Hertfordshire
umberland—North and East Branch
County Collection)
umberland—West Branch (County
Collection)
urham City

Saturday, May 17

Saturday, May 17’
Saturday, May 31

Farnworth, Lancashire . . .
Fordingbridge
Grimsby
Hampshire—Southampton and District
Branch (Winchester Rural District) Saturday, June 7
Haslingden and Edenﬁeld, Lancashire Saturday, May 17
Hertford Borough Saturday, May 24
Holbeach, Lincolnshire Saturday, May 10
Holywell andFlintshire Saturday, May 3
Hormead, Hertfordshire Saturday, May 31
Knebworth, Hertfordshire Saturday, June 21

Saturday, May 31
Saturday, May 31
Saturday, June 14

Letchworth . Saturday, June 21
Lichﬁeld Saturday, June 14
London . Saturday, May 10

March, Cambridgeshire. .
Norton, Yorkshire
Odiham, Hampshire

Saturday, May 31
Saturday, May 10
Saturday, May 24

Oxford . Saturday, May 31
Portsmouth Saturday, May 31
Rawtenstall Saturday, May 17

 




 

Amw> .— v

May 1958

bills to show that he had spent £40 on veterinary
surgeons’ bills during March.

The Chairman of the magistrates said the re—
ceipts showed that the veterinary surgeon had
called at the farm twice during the period in
question. The farmer agreed that this was so, but
said he had not called the veterinary surgeon’s
attention to the sheep because he did not know
it was suffering.

The defence was that the farmer had not been
unreasonable in omitting to call in the veterinary
surgeon because he had been treating it as an
ordinary case of foot rot. (B. 2182)

' Sow could hardly Walk

At Chertsey Magistrates’ Court a man was ﬁned
£10 when he pleaded guilty to causing unnecessary
suffering to a pig. He was also ordered to pay
£6 65. costs.

Counsel prosecuting on behalf of the RSPCA
said that the defendant had some pigs in a field
where he lived. Inspector Wilkinson found a sow
in a deplorable condition; it could scarcely walk.

A veterinary surgeon found that the animal had
multiple fractures of the bone of the hind leg and
there was also a dislocation. The animal must
have been in that condition for some weeks and
must have suffered considerable pain. It was dev
stroyed the next day on the advice of the surgeon.

 

‘

CAT—GHASTLY CONDITION

Brought before Radstock Magistrates Court by the RSPCA
a farmer was fined HO and ordered to pay £8 l3s. costs for
failing to give proper care and attention to the cat. 5‘

A witness said that he noticed the cat’s back legs had been
severed and it was a horrible sight to see the animal strug-
gling and dragging itself towards a farmyard.

Sen. lns. Senior visited the farm and found the cat in
a shed and he reported: ‘The cat could not walk, and I saw
that it was dragging itself along on the stumps of its back

“1985- I found that both its back legs had been severed just

above the hocks. The cat was in a ghastly condition and the
injuries appeared to have been sustained some time ago,
thereby leaving suppurating swollen stumps with the bones
exposed.’

In the opinion of a veterinary surgeon the cat’s injuries
had been caused by the cutter-bar of an agricultural
mowing machine. The cat was given a humane end. (B.I543)

Photo by courtesy of the Chief Constable of Somerset Constabulary

THE ANIMAL WORLD 55...

The defendant’s solicitor said while it was ad’
mitted there had been some neglect, it was not
gross neglect. The defendant was away most of
the day and the feeding of the animals was done
by his wife. As soon as his attention was drawn
to its state the pig was slaughtered. He had
thought that the sow’s lameness was due to

cramp. (B2169)

 

DOG LEFT FOODLESS 55 HOURS

A tworyearvold ban on holding a dog licence was
imposed by Walsall magistrates on a man who
went on a fruit—picking holiday and left his dog
at home without food, water or shelter during the
hot weather.

The man, who pleaded guilty, was also ﬁned
£5 and had to pay £6 65. costs. ,

A solicitor prosecuting for the RSPCA said.
that when Inspector Downes called at the de—
fendant’s home he found the animal had been
unattended for 55 hours. Although it was in a
good bodily condition, it was in a distressed and
nervous state, and was ravenously hungry.

(B2533)

 

CONFIDENTIALLY . . .

All complaints of cruelty are treated as strictly
confidential by the RSPCA. The name of an'

informant is never disclosed.

 

 




I

 

 

[David Willis

 

. felt:

4‘,

.
A
,

 

Y
a
P.
t
s
e
In
t
f
o
h
b
o
r
P
e
In
t
S
r
e
d
n
o
P
N.
a
S

 

mal

(

1‘

n

 

t.

 

, .I",|1 ru' .IIY: I’lll A ‘1 || ‘ .‘ldl." 11.1

i
i
i
i
l




 

 

 

 

May 1958

THE ANIMAL WORLD 53

 

THE RSPCA AT WORK

 

MARCH I958

RSPCA INSPECTORS

1,852 Complaints of cruelty investigated.
68 Oﬁ'enders ﬁned.
39 Persons guilty of minor acts of cruelty cautioned in writing.
687 Registered cautions were administered by Inspectors.

CLASSIFICATION OF CONVICTIONS

HORSES—Working in an unﬁt state 2
CATTLE—Neglecting, ingrowing horn, beating

I—tw

PIGS—Killing in improper manner

DOGS—Neglecting, killing in improper manner, shooting
and wounding, injuring with missile, etc. 3

CATS—Neglecting, subjecting to undue violence, etc.
EOWLS—Neglecting, killing in improper manner
BUDGERIGARS—Starving

HUI—AH

OFFENCES UNDER THE PROTECTION OF BIRDS ACT, 1954:
Being in possession of recently taken birds 3

Offering for sale other than closevringed specimens
bred in captivity . 2

Selling other than a close—ringed specimen bred in
captivity

Using traps for the purpose of taking

Injuring ..

Killing

Attempting to kill

Hui—wr—

VARIOUS OFFENCES:
Steel-tooth trap—set in open
Steel—tooth trap—failing to inspect
Permitting in an offence

TOTAL NUMBER OF CONVICTIONS

ISSIHH.‘

During MARCH 1958, Magistrates, at the request of the
RSPCA, disqualiﬁed NINETEEN persons from owning a dog or
hOldmg a dog licence. Disqualiﬁcations were as follows:

TWO for 12 months: THREE for 3 years: EIGHT for 5 years:
TH}??? for 10 years: ONE for 15 years: ONE for 25 years: ONE
07‘ i e.

Total number of COMPLAINTS from January 1513 5,473
Total number of CONVICTIONS from January Ist 199
Total number of CAUTIONS from January 131: 2,009

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS

No. of animals handled:
3,417 Cats 3,681 Dogs. 901 Misc. Total 7,999
N 0. Of animals givenZ‘emergency ﬁrst aid: 1,894

PUTNEY CONVALESCENT WARD

No. of animals handled:
80 Dogs 18 Cats 1 Misc. Total 99

NIGHT STAFF
No. of calls received: 1,170
N o. of animals given emergency ﬁrst aid: 17
N o. of animals treated by veterinary surgeon: 269
No. of animals rescued: 6
No. of inspection complaints: 9
Miles covered by ambulance in respect of urgent calls: 2,913

NORTH WALES UNIT
First Aid Cases:
44 Cats 57 Dogs 10 Misc. Total 111
No. of animals handled by Unit:
167 Cats 123 Dogs 18 Misc. Total 308
No. of miles covered by Unit: 2,380

DEVON & CORNWALL UNIT
First Aid Cases:
47 Cats 67 Dogs 12 Misc. Total 126
No. of animals handled by Unit:
77 Cats 80 Dogs 8 Misc. Total 165
No. of miles covered by Unit: 1,268

SOUTH WALES MOBILE UNIT

First Aid Cases:

76 Cats 183 Dogs 19' Misc. Total 278 ”
No. of animals handled by Unit:

187 Cats 212 Dogs 21 Misc. Total 420
No. of miles covered by Unit: 1,078

AWARDS

Current awards under review.

RECORDS FOR 1957

INSPECTION
COMPLAINTS . . . . . . . . . . .. 24,942
CONVICTIONS . .. .. ... .. 852
CAUTIONS . . . . . .. 8,596

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS
No. of animals handled: 135,570

NIGHT STAFF
No. of calls: 15,671

 

WARNING

The two pages following are devoted to reports of
RSPCA prosecutions

 

 

 

 




_.

May 1958

Ft

THE ANIMAL WORLD g 57

PARLIAMENTARY NEWS

QUESTIONS

There are ﬁve Inspectors under the Cruelty to
Animals Act, 1876, all medically qualiﬁed. This
information about the supervision of animal re
search establishments was given in an answer by
Mr R. A. Butler to a question from Mrs L. Jeger.

Cattle Trafﬁc

These extracts from Hansard give the most recent
information about the trade in cattle to the
Continent for slaughter:

MR JOHN HARE: Since February 1957, when the
restrictions imposed by the Exported Cattle
Protection Order came into operation, the num’
ber of cattle exported weekly from Great Britain
to the Continent has fallen appreciably. In recent
months, more ungraded cows have come on to
the home market than a year earlier, but average
prices at auction have been up to 103. per live
cwt. higher than last year.

LTvCOL BROMLEYrDAVENPORT asked the Minister
of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food what precise
restrictions are operating at the present time with
regard to the sale of live British cattle in European
markets; and whether, in view of the damage
which is being suffered by British farmers as a
result of these restrictions, he will review the
position with a view to their early modiﬁcation.

MR JOHN HARE: Cattle for export to the Contia
nent are required to be rested, fed and watered,
and certiﬁed by a veterinary inspector as ﬁt to
travel before they are allowed to leave the country.
They can only be exported for slaughter to couna
tries which have given assurances that the animals
will not be re—exported, will not travel more than
sixty miles from the point of disembarkation and
will be slaughtered by electric stunning or by
captive bolt pistol. Suitable lairages and arrange—
ments for feeding and watering at slaughterhouses
are also necessary. I am not prepared to consider
relaxing these restrictions, nor can I agree that
t ey are causing any losses to farmers.

(The RSPCA still holds the View that cattle in
this trade should be humanely slaughtered in this
country and carcasses only exported. Countries
Who have now accepted the conditions outlined
above are Belgium, France, Netherlands and

estern Germany.)

Stag Hunting

When MR LEWIS asked the Secretary of State for
the Home Department whether he was aware that
the overwhelming majority of Her Majesty’s
SUbjects was strongly opposed to stagrhunting,
and whether he would give legislation to prohibit
t is ‘Sport’, MR R. A. BUTLER answered: ‘I can hold
OUt no hope of Government time being made
available for a Bill on this subject.’

(This does not alter the position of the Bill
introduced by Sir Frederick Messer, and sup
ported by the RSPCA, as this, of course, is a
Private Member’s Bill and does not take up
Government time.)

Deer Poaching

MR MACLAY, Secretary of State for Scotland, said,
in answer to a question by MR JOHN MACLEOD,
that he was. aware of a demand for legislation. He
added he was considering it along with the other
aspects of the problem of conserving and con—
trolling deer.

MR MACLEOD explained: ‘This is no longer
poaching for sport or for the pot, but it is a case
of commercial gangs going round and shooting
deer indiscriminately with shotguns at night, to
the danger of the public and in a most uncouth
manner, leaving animals wounded and half dead.’

(The RSPCA is in touch with the Scottish
Animal Welfare organizations over this problem
and is working with them for reform.)

Quarantine: Dogs

MR GODBER (in answer to a Question from SIR R.
ROBINSON): The general requirement of six
months’ quarantine for dogs entering Great
Britain from abroad dates from at least the begin!
ning of the century, but with some variations
before 1918. This quarantine period is necessary
because the incubation period for rabies can last
as long as six months and symptoms of the disease
may not appear until towards the end of it.
Rabies is a terrible and fatal disease and, like his
predecessors, my right hon Friend is not prepared
to take the risk involved in shortening the period.
Inoculation of dogs does not confer complete
immunity.

 

GALES GROUND HERON

An exceptional story of hardship to bird life
caused by high winds in the spring comes from
Chief Inspector G. H. D. Thwaites, who was
called to a heron immobile on the River Taw,
Skaigh Valley, Dartmoor. Someone who had
seen the bird two days running in precisely the
same position, called the Inspector, who found it
exhausted and emaciated. So bad was its condition
that, despite the utmost care, it died whilst he
was taking it in his ambulance to Okehampton.
The bird had died from starvation.

Chief Inspector Thwaites believed that the
condition was due, not to a shortage of ﬁsh, but
to the inability of the bird to rise in the extremely
high winds, which had blown continuously for
over a week.

 




ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
Headquarters: 105 Jermyn Street, London, S.W.1

Founded 1824

PATRONS

HER MAJESTY 'I‘IIE QI'EEN

HER MAJESTY QUEEN [iLIZABIi'I‘IL 'I‘Hli ()lil‘l N MOI HI R
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ALICIi COUN'I‘I'SS ()I’ A'I III ()NI'
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS AR'I‘III'R ()I‘ (‘().\’N’\l'(illl

PRESIDENT

SIR MALCOLM SARUIiN'I‘, HUN I II), I) Ml S. IR('\1, IRS \

THE EARL OF SHAFTESBURY, KP, PC

AGIUS, THE REV DOM AMBROSE, 058, MA
AILWYN, THE RT HON LORD
*ALLIBERT, MRS
*ALSOP, ALDERMAN A. J., FRCA, FCIS, JP
ANDERSON, L. K., ESQ, MRCVS, DVM
*BELL, G. R., ESQ
BERTIE OF THAME, THE RT HON THE VISCOUNI‘LSS
BRANSOM, MISS L. G., FRSA
BYWATER, H. E., ESQ, MRCVS
COPE, MRS JOHN
COTTERELL, LT-COL J. M. v., OBE
DORCHESTER, LT-COL THE RT HON LORD, ORE. JP
*DOWDELL, MRS M. R.
ESTCOURT-OSWALD, MISS AGNES, Mn (LOND), DPH

 

\"ICE-I’RESIDENTS

LT-COL SIR 'I'IIUMAS MHURI . IIARI, ('III , \1l’

 

THE COUNCIL

Acting Chairman: MRS \S AI I IS I’()\\I R. Jl’
Acting Vice-Chairman: I:I'-I‘III J. (‘.

*H'ANS, MRS DASH), IIS

GALVVAV, IIII l)()\\ .SI.IR \ ISI HI SIISS
IIARDNIR, IIIIN 11‘! III

*HARYH, MRS J. \S'., SIS

IIOIIIIOIrSI-. J. .S.. ISO

HOWI-I I, BASH l’., ISI), SIIII

*HUNIIR. MISS

I.I-I~., MRS I-. M.

l.l.l-.Wl-l l \N, H” RI \ ('.\\II\ I I()\ \Rl)‘ 1 III
IIINIIMAN, MRS \S'.

MACNAUHII-N. MR .-’\.

*McPHAII, MRS AI ISIIS II Illl\. SIII, I II M
M()()RI-, I I-(‘()l SIR III()\1-\.\, H\Rl,(’lll,\1l’

"‘ DenoteS Brunch RepreSenlIIIIx e

l()('K\\‘I)(II), .II’.

 

\\ I III I\\ IIRI-I-IS'SS'IIOD, ESQ, MP

ll)

I'Hl IIII. IIII III HH\ IIII IARI

‘I'RIII IISRII. SIRS II.

'RSI ll(\\. R. I ,ISI_I, SIS, PH 1)

‘RIII R. II II.. IM)

SIIII \, \S, \ .I\().\1-\‘.II'

S\III. \l IIII<S1\\ IIH RI\ I’RIHI-NIMRY L. J. B.
Mm. III. HH\ II (Hi-.RI-ZI-‘URDI

‘ISII. SIRS. \1\
‘SS \1 IIIIIII, SIRS IH\II()RUI (III

\I'SRIIS.IIIIIISII,I.I,I‘SIII,IIIII-
‘\\IIIII. II\I(R\, ISI). IIA

\SII I I RI. SIR \RIIII R, ISIII
‘SSISI IIISIIR. I. I.. ISI). I('l.\‘, ISS

“'(HII I 1 Y. \IR I HARII-ZS‘ (ilili. KCMU, CMG, MC

 

 

(CANTAB), DOMS

 

OFFICE BEARERS AI’I’OIN'I‘EI) BY 11 IE (‘()l ’\( ‘ll.
Hon Treasurer—LT-COL J. C. LOCRWOOD, JP, ’11)
Deputy Hon Treasurer—HARRY WIII'I‘E. ESQ, I-(‘A
Hon Medical Ofﬁcer—A. N. CRAWFORD, IISQ. IIRI‘SI
Bankers—MESSRS courts AND CO, STRAND. IIINDON

('IIII'I Seen-tar) IIIII\ H \l l . ISI)
ASSiStzmt SecretariI-S II. \. I. I SSISI, ISI), In
\ll \\ III|\I R. IV.)
I I-tznl SI-I‘rI-lnr) II. SII RR \\, ISI,»
. ( IIII‘I Veterinary ()IIII‘I'r SI \IIIR R. ( . II. IISNI'III‘K. Ibt‘, MRCVS
AudItors—MESSRS VINEY, I’RH‘I :\\l) (mum \R, I II \Rll RI I) \( ( III \I \\ I S

Telegrams—WHITEHALL 7177 l‘clcphone \Nhitehall 7177

#-

 

ROSOPOCOA. ;

 

 

FORM OF BEQUEST FOR NATIONAL WORK

To those benevolent individuals who may wish to heeome henetlietors hy \Vill to this

Society, the following form is respectfully suggested:—

( .
I bequeath to RoYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION or: (ZRI'IgIgry To ANIMALS, for the

general Purposes Of that Society, the sum of £ ................... . tree of all dimes

a a . ~ ' ‘ ‘ ' '
p y ble at my death and the receipt of the Treasurer for the time lveiIItr O] the said Soczety shall

b a ' ‘ ’ ‘ -
e suﬁICIent discharge fOT SMCh legacy. (If It should he Ilesfretl that the legacy should be expended

on some articu ‘ . - . ‘
P lar phase of the SOCIety’s work, a direction to this effect may he added to the f07m

of bequest.)

H

CAUTION
- 26, all Wills or Codicils must he in Writing signed by
Testator, a:

1d '
attested by two Witnesses in the presence of t

W

By the Act of 7 William IV and lVictoria, cap the

 

he Testator and of each other.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

y

 

 




 

 

50 THEANIMAL WORLD

May 1958

 

 

 

Strayed—stayed in a place in the sun

Left to right: Ginger, Bobo and Patch, three strays adopted
by Mrs Neilson, Roehampton aux hon sec

There are really two separate problems on the
cat: the unwanted one, and the genuine stray who
is semiawild.

The genuine stray is a cat who can often
adapt itself to a semi-wild state and once
that state is achieved has the pleasure of
complete freedom and, although sometimes
hungry, this cat is reasonably happy. The
RSPCA is not in favour of catching up
these healthy semi—wild cats merely to put
them to sleep. A great many of them do a
necessary and useful job in keeping down
vermin. Obviously under certain speciﬁc
circumstances, such as too large numbers
attracted to a service camp or in farm
buildings, we are forced to catch up and
destroy them, but fortunately the laws of
nature seem to keep some control on the
reproduction rate of semi—wild cats.

The RSPCA do not believe in catching and
placing semi—wild cats in new homes as the genu—
ine stray does not settle down to a domestic life
where freedom is curtailed and many of them die
of cat ’ﬂu or enteritis shortly after coming into
captivity. ‘

The unwanted cat, whose numbers form the
great majority of strays, is an unhappy and lonely
creature whom we catch up whenever possible

and frequently place in a new home, in particula r/

the young male cat. We usually insist that these
young males are neutered and where we place

young females we ask the new owners to have
them spayed.

Causes

Our plans to reduce this vast army of half—a-
million stray cats every year are mainly based on
an attempt to analyse the causes of straying and
trying to educate the public to realize their
responsibilities to these domestic animals and

give up the practices that cause them to become,
.strays. A

 

 

There are no laws to help us as the cat, unlike
the dog, does not have to haye a collar and the
Police have no responsibility in picking up
stray cats.

As we are all aware, too many cats are born.
Neutering or spaying would reduce the numbers
becoming stray very considerably. Some of the
causes are: removal to new, unknown districts;
sex in the unneutered cat; adyenturesomeness,
particularly in the young male; loneliness, particu—
larly where owners are out all day; unhappiness,
caused by such things as hunger or being mauled
by children; abandonment when an owner is
moved or goes away for annual holidays; stowing
away in vans; nocturnal wanderings and be—
coming lost.

You may ask where all these cats live. The
answer is simply that they hide up in any suitable
place, feed on vermin or by stealing and are
frequently fed by kindly people.

What are we doing to prevent further
strays? We are ﬁrstly having a campaign to
get more cats neutered and females spayed.
Both operations can be done on animals of
any age. The public have the mistaken idea
that these operations are costly, unnatural
and cruel. The RSPCA strongly disagree.
The cost by modern wage standards is very
small. The affectionate neutered tom . ls
surely happier than the restless, thln,
quarrelsome male whose screechings make
many homes unbearable at night and who
become smelly and dirty in old age.

We try to encourage peOple to feel resp0n51ble
for their own cats and those of their neighbours.
To have unwanted litters put to sleep painlessly
and never to keep more kittens than they can
place in good homes. Never to leave their cats
stranded when they move house——either to take
them with them or put them to sleep. Not t0
have kittens just as live toys for the children.

Mrs Hunter, aux sec of
Farlington, sends this photo-
graph of Bimbo, whom she
adopted when his owner
went abroad. Bimbo was to
have been destroyed

 

 

 

 




 

 

52 THE ANIMAL WORLD

May 1958

 

 

as a procurer of animals for experimental
research—a far greater paradox than the financ1al
one which Dr Lane—Petter seeks to establish.

Standing on his Head

Under this heading, Peter Simple (in the Daily
Telegraph) made this comment on Dr Lane;
Petter’s letter to The Times:

‘Sometimes there are minor items in the DCWSv
papers which leave even me gasping with astonv
ishment. The other day, for instance, I read a
letter by a Mr W. LanevPetter, secretary of the
Research Defence Society, taking the RSPCA
severely to task.

‘He suggests that they are unworthy the preﬁx
“Royal” because they persist in painlessly dea
stroying stray cats and dogs instead of selling
them to scientists for research, i.e. vivisection.

‘This is rather as if the NSPCC were to send
unwanted children to criminal lunatic asylums so

that the reactions of the lunatics to them could be

scientiﬁcally observed.’

HEN TRAVELLER

Stories of stowaway cats are almost commonv
place, but from Chief Inspector Proctor, of
Chester, comes the story of a hen which had
travelled a distance of 456 miles unnoticed on a
van.

The Inspector was asked to call at Pickford’s
locally to collect a hen, which had been found
under one of their vans. The hen, he was told,
was found perched on a cross member behind the
steering box. When the Inspector collected the
hen to restore it to the owner he heard this story
from the van driver.

On January 27 the van was stuck in the mud in
a field at Dodleston, near Chester. Whilst the
driver was waiting for a breakdown vehicle to
tow him out he saw a hen being chased by a black
puppy. Both of them disappeared under his van,
and he thought they had run right through and
away. He thought no more of it, and was towed
out of the mud.

He then called at an address in Chester, and
went from there to Peterborough, Luton, Harv
row (Middlesex), Reading, and back to Chester,
a distance of 456 miles. The journey took four
days, and it was not until he was washing the
lorry down with a hose onJanuary 30 that he heard
a clucking from under the van and found the
perching hen. He fed and watered it, and when
Chief Inspector Proctor called he found a cross
Black Leghorn/Rhode Island bird in good condi—
tion, though a bit oily about the head and neck.
He restored a clean bird very soon to the owner
and he has heard that it has ‘settled down again.)

\

 

 

‘Annette’ and
'Petit Pom Pom’,
two dogs known
to Mrs Marshall,
Streatham Hill
Aux. (Photo
taken by Mrs
Denise Black-
man, sent b
Miss M. Tamp-
lin, branch hon
sec, Streatham,
Brixton, Clap-
ham)

 

A LOST DOG

Having read in Animal Ways the story of a grateful
dog, I was reminded of a sheepdog minus a collar,
who also disappeared from a farmhouse. After
the works had closed in a small town he was
found; he followed me to the oﬁice and settled
himself comfortably by lying full length on the
ﬂoor. Shortly afterwards, he joined two men in
another part of the works. Next day, however,
my assumption that he was owned by one of
them proved incorrect. Then I was accosted by
a friend (the local Honorary Secretary of the
RSPCA) who told me that he now had the dog.

I informed the police and the stray came to
live with me. When nearly a week had passed
since he was lost the owner communicated with
the police and I was soon able to restore him.

All was well at the farmhouse that Thursday
evening, but on the Sunday afternoon following,
when returning from a stroll, whom should I find
sitting at my front door but the same dog! He
had left the farm that morning early and travelled,
partly over fields, a four—mile journey.

So once again I had to take out my car and
return him to a grateful owner.

A. P.

If you lose a dog, report ot once to the Police. Make sure your dog has a

col ar bearing your name and address. It is illegal for (1 dog to be on the
highway Without this.

 

Mrs Butler, Diss
and District co hon
sec, sends this pic-
ture of judy, one of
many dogs for
whom she has found
good homes with
kind owners

 

 

 

 




 

 

54 THE ANIMAL WORLD

May 1958

 

 

 

UNFlT TO TRAVEL

 

 

Twelve cows were sent by a cattle dealer
from Cornwall to Berkshire by rail for
slaughter. On their arrival two were found
to be in a suffering state.

Inspector Tynan, accompanied by the
[olice and a veterinary surgeon, found one
Guernsey cow lying on the ground, making
feeble efforts to stand. The cow was in
poor bodily condition. Her left foreleg
was injured and the right horn had been
broken off. Her sufferings were such that
she was given a humane end.

A Devon cow was found in the next pen
hardly able to stand, as she was exceedingly
lame in her hind feet. After examination by
the veterinary surgeon, who found her
unﬁt to travel, she was given a humane end.

Brought before the magistrates at New-
bury by the RSPCA, the cattle dealer was
fined £25 and ordered to pay £25 costs for
causing unnecessary suffering to two cows
by conveying them by rail when in an unfit
state. A second defendant was conditionally

discharged. (B.90l)

 

Wild Birds in Small Cages

In spite of the provisions of the Protection of
Birds Act, 1954, the sale of recently taken
wild birds and their conﬁnement in tiny cages
are widespread offences, which deservedly
occupy the Society’s attention.

The Act enjoins that birds which in ordinary
circumstances are subjected to this unnatural
‘ imprisonment must have space in height, length”
and breadth sufﬁcient to stretch their wings freely.
In too many cases, alas, birds are forced to
exchange the freedom of the countryside for
these tiny prisons, in which they have barely
room to stretch one wing to its full extent.

On September 26 last, at Bow Street Police
Court, the Chief Magistrate, Sir Lawrence
Dunne, dealt with four summonses taken out by
the RSPCA against a pet shop proprietor for
offences in regard to the illegal sale and confine—
ment of wild birds, one being a cuckoo. In most
of the cases, the breadth of the cages scarcely
exceeded four inches.

his very satisfactory to note_that the Chief
Magistrate, in approving the Society’s action
said that he felt it proper to impose substan:
tial ﬁnes amounting to £28 together with
10 gumeas costs, not only as a deterrent to
the particular offender, but also as a warning

to others who might follow the same prac—
tices.

A. G. J.

SHEEP HAD SUFFERED
FOR SEVERAL WEEKS

An RSPCA inspector on duty in a cattle market
saw a farmer and a driver having difﬁculty in
getting a sheep on to the weighbridge. What he
found later led to the farmer being fined £5 with
£4 12$. costs at Ross—on—Wye Magistrates’ Court
for causing the sheep unnecessary suffering by
unreasonably omitting to give it proper and
necessary care and attention.

Chief Inspector Evans told the magistrates that
when he examined the sheep it was in fairly good
bodily condition, but one of its forelegs was hot
and inﬂamed. It was unable to put the foot to the
ground. The ﬂesh had turned gangrenous and the
whole limb smelled very foul.

He showed the magistrates the leg which had
been kept in cold storage since the sheep was
slaughtered.

veterinary surgeon said the infection had
started in the hoof and was of several weeks
standing, probably months. There was no em,
dence of ointment having been applied, but a
bandage had been recently applied without the
leg being dressed. The sheep must have suffered
considerably.

A solicitor who prosecuted for the RSPCA
said the crux of the case was that the farmer had
not obtained any treatment for the ewe dutlng
the considerable time it must have been sufferlng’

The farmer told the magistrates that he
had a regular veterinary surgeon and he produced




 

 

56 THE ANIMAL WORLD

May 1958

 

This rare bird, a
Marsh Harrier,
was brought to
RSPCA Inspec-
tor Heath in a
distressed state.
After three
weeks in his care
she fully recov-
ered and was
returned to her
natural home—
the countryside.

Photograph by
courtesy of the
Stroud journal

 

MARE COULD NOT FEED

Chief Inspector Godley received a report that a
mare heavy in foal, with another at foot, was unv
able to eat as she had a tin stuck on the tongue
which prevented her closing her mouth.

The Chief Inspector had the message from the
Police and he went at once with Sergeant Williams
and two Police Constables to Glanffrwd Ave,
Ebbw Vale. They found the mare and foal after a
long search. The animals were hiding away behind
a wall near the river.

The Chief Inspector and his helpers managed
to hem the mare between two walls and a house,
and he removed the tin Without any injury to the
tongue. He ﬁrst got the mare’s conﬁdence so that
he was able to approach the head and he then
pressed the lid down with his thumb. The mare
was thus enabled to withdraw her tongue from
the tin, and she was then soon feeding.

This incident underlines the frequently re»
peated warning issued by the RSPCA against

throwing away tins in areas where animals are
feeding.

 

@bituary

With sincere regret we report these deaths

Helen Clive, member of Herefordshire 5.11:3}:
committee; Mrs H. M. Fisher (aged 91) former
hon sec Northumberland West Branch; ’Mrs M
Bevington, former hon sec Kemsing Auxiliary;

Mr S. L. Sale, JP, supporter d
Oxford branch committee. ‘ an member Of

IMPROVEMENTS IN MARKETS

In Wolverhampton Market Inspector Hayes has
succeeded in getting a new exit installed which
enables livestock to be handled more efﬁciently
and prevents vehicular obstruction. New cattle
and pig pens have been erected, and all calves are
now bedded down on straw.

Thanks to Chief Inspector Evans, all the store
pig pens at Ledbury Cattle Market are now under
cover.

Following continuous representation from
Chief Inspector Checksﬁeld, water troughs are
now provided in Maidstone Market.

Inspector Phillips has been successful in ob—
taining improvement in the accommodation of
store pigs in Hexham Market, where the new
section is completely under cover.

Inspector Gunton reports a new Cattle Market
has been opened in Dereham and is a great im»
provement on the old one. He is hoping the
poultry section will shortly be under cover.

At Swindon Market, Inspector Hussey has been
successful in getting the Auctioneers to erect a
pig loading bay, the sides of which are ﬂat tin,
which ensures the pigs cannot see anything at the
sides and will facilitate loading.

 

SNOW—WOMAN

During the recent spell of bad weather one of
our lecturers reported that there was great surv
prise when she walked into the school mufﬂed to
the eyebrows. They were, nevertheless, very glad
to see her but had not expected her to break
through the ice barrier. She told them the
RSPCA always arrive, and on time too!

 

Since the last report 174 lectures were given in
schools in Blackburn, Manchester, Cardiff, Birm’
ingham, Worthing, Isle of Wight and the London
area.

Thirtyvnine new Animal Defender groups were
formed; 372 children joined the Headquarters
Group.

 

‘ENJOYING PETS’

Although, as the brief review in the MafCh
Animal World admitted, Enjoying Pets by 1'
Bentley Aistrop, published by Dennis Dobson,
has much in its favour, there are several points on
which the RSPCA disagrees with the author: The
Society is opposed to the keeping of wild anlma S
in cages, in schools or elsewhere. Exchanges, or
pets on loan schemes, are not advocated by the
RSPCA, although this book speaks of them
aPPrOVingly. The author considers bullﬁnches:
linnets and goldﬁnches are pets suitable for

keeping in indoor cages. The RSPCA does not
agree.




 

 

 

5.8- THE ANIMAL WORLD

May 1958

 

RSPCA PROTECTS SEALS

Prompt representations by the RSPCA have
dissuaded the ﬁshermen of Filey from shooting
seals. The ﬁshermen, who claim that the seals
cause serious damage to their nets, and eat or
destroy as many ﬁsh as the ﬁshermen themselves
catch, had appealed for help to the North»
eastern Fisheries Committee, and suggested that
members of the Filey Small Bore Riﬂe Club be
allowed to sail with them.

The North—eastern Sea Fisheries Association,
which represents the ﬁShermen of the area, held
a meeting in York recently. The Association
would not agree to the presence of a repre
sentative of the RSPCA at the meeting, but the
secretary of the AssoCiation listened to the
representative’s views in private beforehand, and
relayed them to the meeting.

- , Moving Target

The RSPCA pointed out that it would be very
diﬂicult indeed, even for an expert marksman, to
hit as mobile a target as a seal from as mobile a
ﬁringvpoint as a boat, and that the only result
would probably be to inﬂict a great deal of
unnecessary suffering. There is also a colony of
three thousand grey seals in the Farne Islands
which are protected by law, and the RSPCA
pointed out that it was very difﬁcult to tell a
common seal from a grey seal in the water.

The meeting was apparently impressed by these
arguments, and gave the RSPCA an assurance
that its members would not use the riﬂe clubs,
but would try to ﬁnd alternative means of control
if necessary, bearing the humane aspect in mind.

 

 

Reprinted from ‘Woman’ with. acknowledgments.

A DOG KEEPS FAITH
By Mrs Roberts, Middlesbrough

This is the story of a dog I didn’t love—until she
taught me a lesson.

She was a bull terrier, and I’m afraid I had very
little patience with her. In fact, I often thought of
getting rid of her.

One day she got out, and later I heard her
scratching at the door to be let in. This, I thought,
was the last straw—she had already made such a
mess of the paintwork on the doors. I got up
crossly, with the ﬁrm intention of punishing her.

But as I ﬂung open the door and looked down
at her, there was something in her eyes that
silenced the angry words on my lips. And a
moment later, how thankful I was.

One of her paws was almost severed, and she
had other serious injuries. I learned later that she
had been hit by a doublevdecker bus—which
didn’t even stop—and though dreadfully hurt, she
wouldn’t let any wellrmeaning passer—by touch
her, but dragged herself painfully home to me.

She had to have seventeen stitches in one leg,
and three in another, and it was months before
she was herself again.

I shall never forget that, though it must have
hurt her terribly, she came to me in her hour of
need.

That is devotion, and I wouldn’t part with her
now for all the world.

 

BRANCH NEWS

(Where a function is organized for the raising of funds, we give,
wherever possible, the place where held, the type of function,
and the name of the organizer or organizers, followed by the
sum raised. The letters AM indicate annual meeting; they are
followed by the word branch, or the name of the auxiliary, and
an indication, where possible, of the person presiding and of
ofﬁcials presenting reports; other information is given as
necessary.)

Berkshire—Newbury and District Newbury, coﬁ‘ee morning
and hung and buy sale, Mrs S. Sandison (branch committee
member), £18. , _
Birkenhead and Wirral AM (branch). The Mayor of Birk-
enhead, Alderman Henry Dawson (branch president) pre-
sided. The Mayoress, Miss Blanche Gill, presented awards
to children who competed in a ‘Kindness to Animals’ com-
petitlon.
Bolton Farnworth, presentation by Lady Hulton (branch
hon sec) of an RSPCA award to ﬁve ﬁremen from F arnworth
Fire Station for rescuing a cow from a sewer overﬂow at
, Ginger Fold, Little Lever.
Caernarvonshire—Llandudno and District AM (branch).
The branch chairman presided. The speaker was Mr P. D.
Turner. Mrs Parke (president) made the awards to members
of the Fire Service, and to children for the essay competition.
Cardiganshire Aberystwyth, coffee party, Mrs David
Evans (Council member), held at her home, £94.

 

Photograph by T. Viney, reproduced by courtesy of Southern Daily Echo.

Opening the door to a future of care for animals 0f the

needy in Romsey. The opening ceremony Of the RSPCA

Animal Welfare Centre is performed by Mrs Wallis Power:
Acting Chairman of the Council

»‘ —4t4~




 

60 THE ANIMAL WORLD

May 1958

 

 

Rugby Saturday, May 3
Runcorn Saturday, May 17
Sale, Cheshire Saturday, May 3
Scunthorpe Saturday, June 21

Sevenoaks Rural District
Sevenoaks Urban District
Sheerness, Kent...

Saturday, June 7
Saturday, June 7
Saturday, June 14

Shefﬁeld Saturday, June 7
Southampton Saturday, May 3
Spalding Saturday, May 10
Stafford Saturday, May 3
Stevenage Saturday, May 31
Stockton—on—Tee Saturday, May 3

Sunderland ' Saturday, May 10
Suffolk—East Co st Constable Branch Saturday, May 24
Swindon Friday, May Z3 51.
’ Saturday, May 24
Saturday, May 31
Saturday, May 31
Saturday, May 3

Tiverton, Devon

Tring, Hertfordshire

Wednesbury and Darlaston .
Westmorland Branch (County Collec—

tion) Saturday, May 17
Whittlesey, near Peterborough Friday, May 30
Wilmslow Saturday, May 31

Winchester Rural District (Area cov—
ered by Southampton and District
Branch) i Saturday, June 7

Windsor Saturday, May 31

Wisbech Saturday, May 31
An appeal is made to any readers who are able to assist

these collections to communicate with their local hon

secretaries, whose names and addresses will gladly be
provided by RSPCA Headquarters. '

FLAG DAYS—A REMINDER

Branches organizing Flag Days are reminded it is most
advisable to order equipment at an early date, preferably at
least four weeks before the collection is to take place. Early
ordering not only assists Headquarters, but also helps
Branches in distributing supplies to collectors and allows
sufﬁcient time in which to obtain any additional equipment
required.

Headquarters will always do everything possible to meet
late orders, but it will be appreciated in such cases there can
be no guarantee that supplies will arrive in time.

FILM NEWS

The Society’s ﬁlms were sent to the following places for
showing recently: «

Penylan, Plymouth, Gedling, Peckham, Maidstone, Rom—
ford, Exeter, Sale, Birmingham, Forest Gate, Folkestone,
Midhurst, Oxted, Wimbledon, Mansﬁeld, Blyth, West
Bergholt, Reigate Heath, Heywood, Hammersmith, Swans—
combe, Cambridge, Heysham, Llanhilleth, Highams Park,
Stourbridge, Bristol, Hucknall, Canterbury, Langley, Roch—
dale, Highbury, Rottingdean, Hindley, Penarth, Horley,
Chipstead, Trowbridge, Harold Wood, Clapham, Leek,
Trumpington, Torquay, Kettering, Woodbridge, Bognor
Regis, Queensferry, Burnley, Wellington, Hemel Hemp—
stead, Bordon, Portsmouth, Cromer, Braintree, Betchworth,
Blackpool, Stockport, Worcester, Chipping Ongar, Sax—
mundham, Dalton-in—Furness, Lowestoft, Carnforth,
Thurnscoe, Lancaster, Hyde, Acton, South Shields, Grays,
March, Diss, Stockton.

 

COUNCIL MEMBER

The, marriage took place recently of Mrs R. C.
Riseley (West London Branch hon secretary and
Council Member) to Mr John Cope. Will supporters
please note her new name.

%3'

PLEASE NOTE THE DATE

The RSPCA has reserved Londonderry House, l9
Park Lane, WI, on October 8 for a Fashion Show,
which will be arranged by one of London’s leading
fashion designers, combined with an Exhibition of
Paintings by contemporary artists, and a Bazaar.
Further details of this function will appear at a
later date.

 

  
     

..........................
._... ..........

USED &TR|ISTED THE WORLD OVER“

   

SAFE . . -
SURE 72;.th X

CAPTIVE sou PISTOL
FOR ALL ANIMALS

ACCLES AND SHELVOKE LTD - BIRMINGHAM ' ,6 ° enema;

  

 

 

 




J

<%>

”%’%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%X%D%x%%%%%%%

LONDON JOINT
ANIMAL FLAG DAY

<%%>

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIllIIIllIllllIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

SATURDAY, IOth MAY, I958

HOUSE TO HOUSE COLLECTION —— 4th MAY—IOth MAY (incl.)

Q00 o0; Q00 Q90 cog Q00 %>%%%%
° %<%%3s age as age cogs (580

Will you please help by
(a) Making a collection in the streets on the 10th May.

( b) Making a house to house collection between the 4th
and 10th May, inclusive.

if you are unable to collect in the street or from
house to house.

(d) Sending the names and addresses of friends who
either live in London or are willing to come to
London for the purpose of collecting.

(e) Sending a donation.

1|IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlIIlIIIlIIIlllIIllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlllllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII '
_

COLLECTORS REQUIRED FOR ALL PARTS
OF THE METROPOLITAN AREA

Please state in which part of London

you would like to collect
"IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII"IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII"IIIIIIIIIIII"III”IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII"

 

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
'IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII'I'

Oﬁ‘ers of help should be sent to the

<%
%>
%
%>
as
a
%>
%
<%
<%>
%
%
%
i
%
g
<%
(c) Making a collection privately amongst your friends, g
g
%
<%
g
%
%
$3
%
gag
<%
<%>
%
%>
%
APPEALS DEPARTMENT, RSPCA, g
|05 .IERMYN STREET, LONDON, s.w.I %
%

NB No one under I8 years of age may collect either in the
street or from house to house in London.

 

 

%>
g3
<%>
%>

 

 

Printed by Shenval Press, Simson Shand Ltd, London, Hertford and Harlow, and
published by John Hall for the RSPCA at 105 Jermyn Street, London, SW1

 




