 

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘Ruby’, brought for destruction as a puw aopte by
Mrs Collier, Shefﬁeld Branch Hon Secretary. In the picture
‘Ruby’ is seen with Robert Collier

St Annes (Mrs A. F. Williamson) after she had performed
the opening ceremony. Among those present were Mrs D.
Kennedy, chairman, and Miss D. Lord, hon secretary.
£12 4s. 9d. was raised for branch funds.

*

Miss D. Lord reports that a dance held at Squires Gate

Holiday Camp raised £7, and a hot-pot supper at the Railway
Hotel raised £7 16s. for branch funds.
Great Yarmouth and District Mrs Scott, North Walsham
auxiliary hon secretary, reports: the Bacton Sea Urchins
animal defender group under their leader Mrs Klyne helped
at an exhibition and sale of work at Bacton. A talk was
given on birds and the protection of nests by Miss I. Corfe
of North Walsham. One guinea has been given to branch
funds by Mrs Klyne from the proceeds of the sale.

*

The Mayor, Mr F. J. Page, presided over the branch
annual meeting at the Town Hall, Great Yarmouth. Tributes
were paid to the Misses Castle, branch co hon secretaries.
Submitting the report of the Committee, Miss Castle said
that during the year ninety-three complaints had been investi-
gated by Chief Inspector Tye. Addressing the meeting,
MaJOIChapman, branch organizer, spoke of the RSPCA
campalgn against the gin trap.

RSPCA medals and certiﬁcates were presented by the
Mayer to two policemen, PC C. H. Dunkley and PC J.
Eafgy’. 0f Bacton, who rescuedtwo dogs from the ledge on

c 1 .

Mr and Mrs J. Walton, of Homing, were each awarded
certiﬁcates for the rescue of a dog from the river at Horning.
GTm‘Sby and District At the branch annual meeting in the
Church House, Grimsby, the chairman, Major C. Fitz-
WllhamS, welcomed animal defenders. A report was given by
Miss _J. Boocock, leader of the animal defenders. A report
submitted by Mr H. Davis, hon treasurer, showed an in-
crease in income over previous years. Major Chapman,
branch organizer, gave an address. Ofﬁcers were re-elected:
Chall‘man, Major C. Fitzwilliams; honorary secretary, Mrs

M- Clapham; hon treasurer, Mr H. Davis. _
Hampshire—New Forest Mrs Colwill, New Milton aux-
lhal’y hon secretary, organized a jumble sale and raised £26
fer branch funds.

mPShire~South, and Portsmouth The importance of
teaching children to be humane was stressed by Mrs Wallis

Ower vice-chairman of the RSPCA Council, at the branch
annual meeting at Southsea. In the branch report Rear-

lral A. Kingsley Dibley (branch chairman) mentioned
the death of Dr Montagu Way, who was chairman for four-
teen Years. Chief Inspector Hindle said that during the year
comPlaints were investigated. Ofﬁcers re-elected were:

THE ANIMAL WORLD

 

 

81

 

 

Mr Haggie, Sheffield Branch Chairman, mthwthe
new animal ambulance

chairman, Rear-Admiral A. Kingsley Dibley; hon treasurer,
Mr D. A. Grey; hon secretary, P. L. Coombe. The general
committee was re-elected en bloc with the addition of Capt
W. P. B. Beal and Mr R. H. Clover.

Hants and Surrey Border Colonel R. M. Powell, branch
hon secretary and Vice-President of the RSPCA, writes:
The annual general meeting of the above branch was held at
the Church House, Farnham. The chair was taken by the
Right Hon The Viscountess Alanbrooke, who gave an ad-
dress, and who was unanimously re-elected president of the
branch. The chairman, Major-General Sir E. M. Perceval,
KCB, DSO, was also re-elected. After the usual routine
business, in the course of which the ofﬁcers and members of
the committee were re-elected en bloc, an exhibition was
given of some of the silent 16-mm ﬁlms recently purchased
from the Gaumont-British Company and from SPANA for
the branch ﬁlm library. The commentary was read by the
branch hon secretary. The ﬁlms, especially ‘Penguin Island’,
which was in colour, were much appreciated.

Kent—Dover and District The Mayor (Councillor R.
Snelgrove) presided over the branch annual meeting in the
Council Chamber, Dover. Mr D. L. Camm, assistant
secretary from Headquarters, gave an address and was
thanked by the Rev A. S. Cooper. Mr W. S. Lee, branch
chairman, thanked the Mayor for the good work he had
done for the branch during the last year. The committee’s
report announced that Mr W. S. Lee was retiring as hon
sec but would remain as chairman; Mrs Price agreed to
take over as branch hon secretary. Regional Supt F. Webb
had, during the year, investigated 149 cases of cruelty.

*

A whist drive, organized by Mrs Seath of Ringwould,
near Deal, was held at the Village Hall, Ringwould, and
raised £16 43. 4d. for branch funds.

*

Regional Superintendent Webb and Mr Dawkins, branch

home caretaker, judged dogs entered in the Barton Secondary
School pet show.
Kent—Isle of Thanet Mrs Beaumont, speaking at the branch
annual meeting, said: ‘Many people will not believe that
certain cruelty to animals is allowed by the law in twentieth
century England’. The Vicar of Birchington (the Rev N. M.
Granville Sharp) thanked Mrs Beaumont for her address.
The branch chairman, Mr E. Spencer Payne emphasized the
grand work during the year of the hon secretary, Miss D. M.
Lawrance. Valuable help had been given by Mrs Crook,
Broadstairs and St Peters auxiliary hon secretary. Inspector
Harrison’s report said that 100 complaints had been investi-
gated during the year.

 

   




 

FLAG DAY RESULTS

(We give, wherever possible, the place at which the Flag Day
was held and the name of the organizer or organizers.)
Dartford, Mrs Ransom, Dartford. Town auxiliary hon
secretary, £92 125. 2d.; Botley, Miss Maffey, £11 145.;
Bursledon, Mrs Deacon, auxiliary hon secretary,
£3 12$. 6%d.; Hamble, Miss Hughes, auxiliary hon secretary,
£16 115. 115d; Hedge End, Mrs Hales, auxiliary hon
secretary, £9 85. 9d.; Netley, Mrs Chetham, auxiliary hon
secretary, £3 15s. 22ﬁd.; West End, £3 10$. ll%d.; Gotham,
Bulcote and Woodborough, Notts, £26 05. 2d.; Petersﬁeld,
Mrs Tollemache, Alton, Haslemere, Petersﬁeld and District
Branch hon secretary, £92; Chorley and District, Mrs A. R.
France, Chorley auxiliary hon secretary, £214 75. 2d.;
Stocktonron—Tees, Mr and Mrs M. E. Postle, £275 65.;
Warrington, Mrs P. Fairclough, branch hon secretary,
£171 45. 10d.; Thrapston and Villages, Mrs R. Coles,
auxiliary hon secretary, £36 25. 8d.; Sutton—in—Ashﬁeld, Mr
E. Evans, auxiliary hon secretary, £73 155. 1d.; Newtown,
Montgomery, Mrs Hugh Jones, auxiliary hon secretary,
£52 105. 6d.; Bolton, £148 175. 5d.; Canterbury, Mrs
Dance, branch hon secretary, £201 153. 4d.; Leeds, Mrs
J. W. Harvey, branch hon secretary, £1,070; Bradford,
Miss G. Hall, branch hon secretary, £127; Gillingham,
Mrs L. J. Bromley, div hon secretary, £131 105.; Bridge
Blean, £81 125. 4d.; Bishop’s Stortford, Miss K. A. Hill,
auxiliary hon secretary, £79 135. 2d.; Peterborough, Miss
A. N. Hartley, branch hon secretary, £310 85. 6d.; Runcorn,
Mrs Goulden, co auxiliary hon secretary, £109 65. 6d.;
Sedgeﬁeld, Mr E. Toulson, £15 73. 7d.; Brigg, Mrs M. E.
Phillips, co auxiliary hon secretary, £31 175. 7d.; Ilkeston,
£30 175. 6d.; Plymouth, £88 95. 7d.; Tavistock, £24 145. 7d.;
Dereham, Miss Hunter, auxiliary hon secretary,

£58 115. 10d.; Ashton-under-Lyne, £75 155. 2d.; Mex—

borough, Mrs S. Bayley, auxiliary hon secretary, £57;
Goldthorpe, Mrs Adams, £11 175. 5d.; Bolton—on—Dearne,
Miss Mamwell, £1 115. 4d.; Caernarvon, Miss G. E. Jones,
auxiliary hon secretary, £31 185. 7d.; Bangor, £68 45. 8d.;
Carlisle, £188; Skipton, £72 115. 7d.; Chippenham, Mrs D.
Wheeler, Wilts North branch hon secretary, £96 Os. 9d.;
Tiverton, Miss W. Gardiner, auxiliary hon secretary,
£35 113.; Birkenhead and Wirral, Mr W. H. Munday,
branch secretary, £402 75. 10d.; Cirencester, £86; South-
ampton, £130 135. 7%cl.; Llanelly, Mrs M. Paul, auxiliary
hon secretary, £48 175. 1d.; Spenborough, Miss K. A.
Crowther, auxiliary hon secretary, £67 105. 4d.; Chalfont
St Giles, Mrs Barlow, auxiliary hon secretary, £9 3.5 3d.

 

 

FLAG DAY EQUIPMENT

Provincial Organizers are asked to be good
enough to return ﬂag day materials as soon as
possible after the date of the collection, to
the British Legion Poppy Factory, Petersham
Road, Richmond, Surrey, at the same time
informing Headquarters of the approximate
number of emblems used—an approximate
figure is all that is required. The prompt re—
turn of equipment greatly facilitates the re’
labelling of tins, etc., for future collections
in other parts of the country.

Organizers are reminded that orders for
ﬂag day equipment should be submitted to
Headquarters at least FOUR weeks before the
date of the collection.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NO FLAG DAY?
Never mind—Try this!

Branches unable, for any reason,
to organize a Flag Day are reminded
that a

HOUSE TO HOUSE COLLECTION

is an excellent alternative

Write for details to:
Chief Secretary, RSPCA, 105 Jermyn Street, London, S W1

 

 

 

FLAG DAY
GOODS

Celluloid Buttons

LIST ON APPLICATION

THE UNIVERSAL BUTTON CO. LTD.
1-9 Birkheck Street, Bethnal Green, LONDON, E.2

Telephone: BIShopsgate 5750 Telegrams: ‘Unibutco Edo’

 

 

 

 

TEMPLE COX CAPTIVE

BOLT SLAUGHTERING
GUNS

Specially recommended and used by the RSPCA

THREE MODELS—ALL SILENT IN
ACTION

‘UNIVERSAL’ for all animals
‘SMALLS’ for all small animals
‘MARK 6’ for all animals. Designed for heavy

use in large Abattoirs and Freezing Works

TEMPLE COX DEVELOPMENT CO. LTD
HIGH STREET, BROMLEY, KENT

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




July 1954

THE ANIMAL WORLD 75

 

 

THE RSPCA AT WORK

MAY 1954

RSPCA INSPECTORS

2,690 Complaints of Cruelty investigated.
3 Oﬁenders imprisoned.
93 Offenders ﬁned.
57 Persons guilty of minor acts of cruelty cautioned in writing.
883 Registered Cautions were administered by Inspectors.

CLASSIFICATION OF CONVICTIONS

HORSES—Neglecting, working in an unﬁt state. .. . . . 9
CATTLE—Neglecting, beating, conveying and exposin

for sale in an unﬁt state 3
SHEEP—Neglecting 3
PICS—Neglecting, beating 5

DOCS—Neglecting, muzzling in improper manner, incit—
ing to ﬁght, attempting to kill in improper

manner . . . . . . 19
CATS—Neglecting, shooting and wounding, killing in
improper manner, stoning . .. 17
FOWLS“NegleCtl/ng c o o v o o o o o v . 2
DUCKS—Neglecting, causing to be conveyed by rail in
improper manner . . . . . . . .. . . . 2
GOOSE—Beating o v o o o o o o 9 o v o o o c 1
PIGEONS—Starving, causing to be conveyed by rail in
improper receptacle . . . . . . . . . 2
THRUSHEs—Throwing against tree . . . . . . . .. 2
FROG—Piercing with stick 1
ELEPHANT—Chastising in improper manner 1
OFFENCES UNDER THE PROTECTION OF BIRDS ACT, 1925:
Conﬁning birds in small cages
Using bird lime ' 0 Q Q C C O 9 9 O O O 1
OFFENCES UNDER THE PROTECTION OF BIRDS ACT, 1933:
Oﬁering for sale other than a close—ringed
specimen bred in captivity . .. . .. 12

OFFENCES UNDER THE WILD BIRDS PROTECTION ACTS:
Being in possession of recently taken birds 8
Shooting 0 9 V . O C V 0 ' ' O .

VARIOUS OEFENCES:
Infringement of Pet Animals Act, 1951
Failing to cleanse and disinfect cattle l
Permitting in an oﬁence
Steelvtooth trap——set in open

TOTAL NUMBER OF CONVICTIONS

Ox WHHH
l‘°l

During MAY, 1954, Magistrates, at the request of the RSPCA,
disqualiﬁed THIRTEEN persons frOm owning a dog or holding a
dog licence. Disqualiﬁcations were as follows:

ONE for 3 years; EIGHT for 5 years; TWO for 20 years;
TWO for Life.
Total number of COMPLAINTS from January lst 12.363
Total number of CONVICTIONS from January lst 374
Total number of CAUTIONS from January lst 4,233

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS

No. of animals handled: ,
Cats, 4,907 Dogs, 4,009 Miscellaneous, 474 Total, 9,390

No. of animals given emergency ﬁrst—aid: 1,952

PUTNEY CONVALESCENT WARD

No. of animals handled:
Cats, 21 Dogs, 82 Miscellaneous, 0 Total, 103

NIGHT STAFF

No. of calls received: 1,787

Miles covered by ambulance in respect of urgent calls: 1,871
No. of animals rescued: 11 _

N o. of cases treated by veterinary surgeon: 227

NORTH WALES UNIT

First—aid cases:
Cats, 12 Dogs, 44 Miscellaneous, 2 Total, 58

No. of other animals handled by Unit:
Cats, 97 Dogs, 52 Miscellaneous, 2 Total, 151

No. of miles covered by Unit during month: 2,075

AWARDS

Current awards are under review.

RECORDS FOR 1953

COMPLAINTS ... 27,686
CONVICTIONS . .. 864
CAUTIONS . . . . . . 10,142

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS
No. of animals handled: 155,236

NIGHT STAFF
No. of calls: 20,440

NORTH WALES UNIT
No. of animals handled: 2,797

AWARDS
Margaret Wheatley Cross 1
Silver Medals 6
Bars to Silver Medals 2
Bronze Medals 58
Bars to Bronze Medals 10

Merit Certiﬁcates 121

 




 

-__.~

 

July 1954

THE ANIMAL WORLD ‘ 79

 

Counsel prosecuting for theRSPCA said that
at the time Of the incident the defendant was
working in a boiler—room as a stoker. . '

Another employee of the ﬁrm Saw the de—
fendant come out of a changing room, having
apparently been drinking. , . ,

The defendant complained that the kittens
were a nuisance—always getting in his way. He
picked up a gingerrand—white one, said ‘Look at
it,’ and then walked across the room to a boiler
stove. ‘He opened the door of the stove,’ said
RSPCA counsel, ‘threw the kitten into it and
then closed the door!’

A witness, said counsel, heard the kitten

scratching and screaming for a few seconds
trying to get out. '

Incensed, this witness opened the stove door
and managed to get out the charred body of the
kitten. ,7

The defendant, who pleaded not guilty, told
the magistrate that he thought he had injured the
kitten when he trod on it, and what he did was
‘the best way of putting it out of its misery’.

He was charged by the RSPCA with unlawfully
causing unnecessary suffering to the cat by unv
reasonably killing it in an improper manner.
(Inspectors Goodes, Sale and S. Green. Case

No. A.8104.)

 

RSPCA ACHIEVEMENTS
Water for Cattle in Transit

Thanks to the unremitting efforts Of Senior
Inspector Baxter, fresh drinking water is now
available for store cattle passing through Darlinga
ton Loading Dock. In future, the vast number of
animals who travel via Darlington will no longer
suffer the torment of thirst. ’ .

Good News from Clacton

Inspector Archer has succeeded in bringing about
a reform for which he has been striving for many
years past—namely, the extension of the Don!
key’s Charter to the hackney carriage horses of
Clactonaon—Sea. .

Help for a Frightened Swan

The attention of Chief Inspector Butterworth was
drawn to a nesting swan in Victoria Park, Paign—
ton, who was being molested by passing children,
armed with sticks. After a vain search for the
Park Keeper, he called at the Town Hall and
interviewed the Parks Superintendent, with the
result that wire netting was immediately placed
round the bird, fencing her off from inquisitiVe
or mischievous passers by. Park Inspectors have
also been instructed to keep the swan under
observation. '

Salisbury sets an, Example

Chief Inspector Turner reports long—awaited
improvements in the Cattle Sale Yards. A new
sale ring has now been completed and, to quote
from his report: ‘The improvements have made
a wonderful difference in the treatment of the
animals; no person was allowed in the ring but
the ‘dl’Over, there was no shouting to get the
cows in the ring and the use of sticks was very
llttle . . . a lot of people said that they had never

.seen the cattle in this yard treated so well in all

,

t e years they have been attending. . . .

A QUESTION OF ADOPTION

From ‘The Child’s Guardian’, ofﬁcial organ of the
N SPCC:

The same Inspector (of the NSPCC) also received
a phone call from a lady who was most concerned
about the fact that her sister who was coming to
live with her had a cat, whilst she had a dog. She
did not think the two pets would get on well
together. Could the Inspector get the cat adopted?
Had it been a child he might have been interested,
but this time he thought it appropriate that the
aid of our very good friends the RSPCA should
be sought.

VISITORS FROM OVERSEAS

A cordial welcome was given to Mr Kerns
Wright, Chairman of the Board of The American
Humane Association, who visited the London
Headquarters of the RSPCA recently. It was a
pleasure to exchange news and views with Mr
Wright on animal protection matters and to have
the opportunity of thanking him personally for
the ever—ready cooperation of his organization.

It was also a pleasure to receive a visit from
ﬁve representatives of Scandinavian animal welo
fare societies (Norwegian, Swedish and Danish).

A tour of inspection of the RSPCA Animal
Hostel at London Airport and one of the London
Clinics was arranged and the Scandinavian visitors
showed keen interest in all they saw.

OBITUARY

With sincere regret we report the following
deaths:

Miss E. M. Wood, a supporter; Captain J.
Hayter, former hon treasurer (for twentyveight
years) of Hampshire—Romsey Branch; Mrs
Money, hon sec of Ellesmere auxiliary for thirty

years; Mr F. W. Farncombe, hon treasurer of
Poole Branch; Mrs F. Holman, a supporter;

Colonel Sir Lionel Darrell, President of (Slow
cestershire—-—Mid Branch.

 




 

 

 

 

 

July 1954

THE ANIMAL WORLD 83

 

Mrs Tait, member of the RSPCA Council, addressed the
meeting on the general work of the Society. Mrs Wallis
Power, vice-chairman of the RSPCA Council, attended.
Reading with Berks, Hants and Oxon Border Mrs Wallis
Power, vice-chairman of the RSPCA Council, spoke at the
branch annual meeting. Col R. M. Powell, vice-president
of the RSPCA, attended with Mrs Wallis Power. Reports
,were submitted by Miss E. M. Wadland, branch secretary,
and Mr G. B. Potter, branch hon treasurer.

Presentations were made to Senior Inspector Temple who
received a medal for gallantry when helping to rescue
animals during the East Coast ﬂoods and to P. W. B. Thomas
of Henley Grammar School, who received the Uniacke
Memorial Prize for an essay on kindness to animals and
birds. Certiﬁcates of merit were presented to other children.
Mr C. R. Davies, branch organizer, was present.

*

Miss E. M. Wadland, branch secretary, reports that Mrs
Brimblecombe, Wokingham auxiliary hon secretary, organ-
ized a jumble sale and raised £47 19s. 9d. for branch funds.
She also reports that Miss Le Roy arranged for her pupils
to give a display in aid of the RSPCA. Miss Baker and Mrs
Lyford helped. £29 18s. 3d. was raised for branch funds.

 

The picture of Danny, the horse, and Tony,
the dog, comes from Mrs jeanette K. Winch-
combe, Tunbridge Wells

Rotherham and District Mr William Porritt presided over
the annual meeting of Mexborough auxiliary. Mrs Bayley,
hon secretary, and Mrs Wood, assistant hon secretary, were
Present. A report was submitted by Senior Inspector _Young.
Shefﬁeld The speaker at the branch annual meeting was
Miss Naomi Jacobs, novelist. On the platform was the Lord
MayOr of Sheﬂield (Councillor Oliver S. Holmes). Also at
the meeting were the Lady Mayoress of Shefﬁeld, Mrs O. S.
HOhHGS, the Viscountess Galway, Mr D. S. Haggle, chair-
man, Mr G. F. Howard, hon treasurer, Mrs G. Colller, hon
secretary, Lady Finch and other RSPCA ofﬁc1als.
wards were presented to three Shefﬁeld boys: Alan and
James Smith and Reginald Jolley, who saved a Muscovy
duck trapped in ice in January. , .
0Dshire At the annual meeting of Oswestry aux111ary
held in the Masonic Hall, Oswestry, the report of Senlor
Inspector Brehany was read by the Rev G. Washmgton
wen. Mr Thomas Jones, auxiliary hon secretary, read
the rf3port of the honorary treasurer, Mr D. Hughes. Lt-Col
Kenyon took the chair. Mr Wilfred Owens, L1verpool
biaIECh secretary, addressed the meeting. . _ .
Slﬂtngbourne Division Mr Shapland Cowper, d1V1s10n
Chairman, presided at the annual general meeting of the
1v1s10n in the lounge of the Town Hall, Sittingbourne.
Present on the platform were Mr W. R. Rees, Vice-chalrman,
Mrs M. Draper, division hon secretary, and Inspector A. E.
Butson. Mr Allan Joiner from Headquarters gave a talk.
In the unavoidable absence of the hon treasurer, Mr A.

Hutchinson, the ﬁnancial report was presented by Mr Rees.

*

Mrs R. Rees, Teynham co auxiliary hon secretary,
organized a jumble sale held at the Ambulance Hut, Teyn-
ham, raised £12 for branch funds.

Stockport, East Cheshire and West Derbyshire Inspector
Coles ofﬁciated as judge at Dialstone Lane and Oﬁ'erton
Methodist Churches pet show and judged horses at Reddish
Carnival.

Suffolk—East Coast, Constable A jumble sale was held at
the St Margarets Institute and £18 16s. 8d. was raised for
branch funds.

Surrey—East Mrs Longley, branch hon secretary, reports
a successful sale which raised £140 for branch funds.
Sussex—West and Brighton A whist drive organized in
Horsham by Mrs Weaver and Miss Rita Pedley raised
£4 3s. 6d. for branch funds.

Torquay and South-East Devon At the branch annual
meeting Mr C. J. H. Wollen, branch president, said that it
was a tragic thought that Chief Inspector C. Butterworth
had investigated 152 complaints of Cruelty to animals. The
next speaker was Mr Ampleford, Parliamentary organizer
from Headquarters, who was thanked by Lady Harvey for
his address. Ofﬁcers elected were: President, Mr C. J. H.
Wollen; chairman, Mr H. K. Ault; honorary secretary, Mrs
M. V. Dodds; honorary treasurer, Mr W. E. Slade. Awards
were made to Mr Wilfred Joint, who received a bar to his
RSPCA bronze medal for his recue of a dog from a disused
mineshaft, and to Miss B. 1. Cox who received an RSPCA
certiﬁcate for her bravery in descending the cliffs to rescue
a dog caught in a rabbit snare. The presentations were made
by the Deputy Mayor of Torquay, Mr W. H. White.

Vale of Mowbray At the branch annual meeting Lady
Hunter presided. Miss Sharples, branch hon secretary, in her
report, thanked members of the branch for their support
during the year. Mr J. Tweedie, branch hon treasurer, pre-
sented the ﬁnancial report for the year. Inspector Jackson
addressed the meeting on his year’s activities. Lady Swinton,
branch president and chairman, presented him with a fare-
well token from the branch.

Walsall Mr Hampton, manager of the Olympia Picture
House, The Green, Darlaston, organized a children’s pet
show held at the picture house. Miss Lofthouse, of West
Bromwich, presented the prizes and Inspector Downes
judged their pets.

    

Bacton Sea Urchins (Animal Defenders) in a nativity play

Warrington and District Lt-Col Coventry, branch organ-
izer, addressed the Runcorn auxiliary annual general
meeting which was attended by Mrs P. Fairclough, branch
hon secretary. Mr A. E. Moors spoke.

Warwickshire South and East The branch annual general
meeting was held in the Council Chambers of the. Town
Hall, Leamington Spa, by kind invitation of the Mayor of
Leamington (Councillor E. H. Fryer) who presided. He was
supported on the platform by the Mayoresses of Leamington

 




Incorperating QThe Winged Messenger’

 

OLUI‘VIE XLIX N0 7 THREEPENCE JULY 1954

SELF CONTAINED

 

HE OFFICIAL ORGAN OF THE RSPCA

 




 

AN IMAE HEWORLD

THE OFFICIAL MAGAZINE OF 'THE RSPCA

Vol XLIX No 7 New Series PRICE THREEPENCE
4s. 6d. per annum. Post Paid

 

JULY 1954’

 

 

 

(This picture and the accompanying article are reprinted from the Midland Daily Tribune, Nuneaton, with acknowledgments.)

SOMEBODY’S children did this

 

 

 

 

 

Three young blackbirdS—just about one day old—were
found beneath a tree in Ivanhoe Avenue, Nuneaton.
They were brought to the ‘Tribune’ by Inspector
A. C. Davidson, of the RSPCA.

He had found five bodies there, but the other two were
‘too messy’ he said.

But these were not a pretty sight. One had had its head
pulled off, another had had a piece of twig pushed through

its neck and the third had an injury at the base of the neck
where something had been jabbed into it.

According to the Inspector the birds were not necessarily
dead when they fell .from the nest above. And did they fall,
or were they pushed? Three times in the preceding days,
boys climbing theitree had been chased away by residents.

All the evidence points to an act of deliberate torture by
SOMEBODY’S children.

YES, PARENTS—SOMEBODY’S CHILDREN—OR CHILD—COMMITTED‘THIS NAUSEATING ACT, THE RESULT
OF WHICH YOU CAN SEE ABOVE IN ALL ITS GRISLY DETAIL. THESE YOUNG BIRDS. WERETORTURED, MAIMED
AND MURDERED. THE SADISTIC'MINDS‘ OF THE PEOPLE WHO PERPETRATED THIS CRIME .CAN ONLY BE
EQUALLED BY THOSE OF THE BRUTAL GUARDS OF THE HORROR CAMPS or BELSEN, BERGEN AND DACHAU.
. THE TERRIFYING CRUELTY MUST LEAVE ONE IN DOUBT AS TO THE MENTAL STABILITY OF SOME YOUNG
PERSON OR PERSONS. MAKE SURE IT IS NOT YOUR CHILD! - - - .. ,

 




 

 

 

 

July 1954

THE ANIMAL WORLD 77

 

Wrong track

Anyone who has anything to do with animals
and is not morally atrophied can hardly help
feeling that, for better or worse, he has certain
responsibilities to the animal kingdom.

The picture of the modern farmer as one who
trailed disease and poison in his footsteps is one
I could never bring myself to accept. Nor can I
believe that, in the long run, it could be made to
ﬁt in with any scheme for a healthy and pro—
gressive countryside.

Reprinted from ‘The Ark’, with acknowledgments.

Did you lie, little brother, the long night hours
through,

With your torn paws held fast in the sharp teeth
of steel?

They did that to Him too.

-——His Feet and His Hands felt the pain that you
knew

As you lay in the trap the tall grasses conceal.

They did that to Him too.

EUFHEMIA MACLEOD

 

QUESTIONS IN PARLIAMENT
South Georgia Sealers’ Licences

MR IAN HARVEY asked the Secretary of State for
the Colonies whether arrangements had now been
made for a clause to be included in the sealers’
annual licence requiring the use of humane instru—
ments for the killing Of elephant seals in South
Georgia. _

MR LYTTELTON: Yes, Sir. A clause to this effect
has been included in all new licences.

Experiments on Animals: Cancer Research

MR PETER FREEMAN asked the Secretary of State
for the Home Department whether he would
publish a table showing the number of experia
ments on animals for the purpose of cancer
research in each year since these records were
kept to the latest known date, and indicating the
number Of each variety of animal, separately; and
the total over the whole period.

In his reply, SIR D. MAXWELL FYFE gave the
annual totals of experiments on animals for
cancer research since 1907 (45,032) up to 1952
(95,991): a total of 1,367,820 animals was give
for the whole period. .

Steeplechasing

MR PETER FREEMAN asked the Secretary of
State for the Home Department whether he
would introduce legislation to prohibit steeple’
Chasing in View of the cruelty and suffering
involved for horses.

SIR D. MAXWELL FYFE: NO.

ORDER FOR HORSE TRAFFIC

Horses imported to Britain from Ireland for
slaughter are to be examined at the ports Of
arrival by veterinary inspectors to make sure that
they are still in a ﬁt state to continue their
journey.

The Minister of Agriculture, Sir Thomas
Dugdale, announced this in the House of
Commons in a written reply to Mr Donald
Chapman, MP.

' Mr Chapman has been campaigning against
' methods which he claims cause cruelty to the

horses. In his campaign, he has had the help of
the RSPCA.

The Order came into operation on June 25. It
lays down that only approved ports must be
used and that every horse must be examined
‘during daylight’.

PARLIAMENTARY REVIEW
Having passed all stages in the House of Lords,
the PESTs BILL is awaiting Second Reading in
the Commons.

The PROTECTION .OF ANIMALS (AMENDMENT)
BILL has passed its ﬁnal stage in the House of
Commons and Second Reading stage in the
Lords. A useful amendment made to the Bill
means that it will apply (if enacted) to Scotland
as well as to England and Wales. One important
provision of the Bill is to give Magistrates the
right of forbidding certain people to own an
animal. The ban would be applied—at the dis,
cretion of magistrates—after the ﬁrst conviction
for cruelty to animals. Had the amendment not
been made, the ban could have been evaded by
anyone moving from England or Wales to
Scotland. '

Sponsored by the British Veterinary Associa—
tion the Protection of Animals (Anaesthetics)
Bill has passed its ﬁnal stages in the House of
Commons and has to be considered in the House
of Lords. An important amendment made to the
Bill insists that puppies over the age of three
months must be anaesthetized before castration.

RSPCA FILMS DREW THE CHILDREN

‘We did not know there were so many children
in the Village,’ writes Miss E. Crad’ock, East
Dean auxiliary hon secretary, when repOrting
that the Village Hall was ‘quite full’ for a Showing
of RSPCA ﬁlms.

TORTOISEs, TERRAPINS AND TURTLEs by Ivor Noélv
Hume and Audry NoélaHume. Published by W.
and G. Foyle Ltd, price 25. 6d. This handy and
compact volume should prove useful to anyone
who wishes for more information than is con,
tained in the RSPCA pamphlet on tortoises. It
runs to 112 pages full of facts and carries both
drawings and photographic illustrations.

 

 




    

ounded 1824

OYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

Headquarters: 105 Jermyn Street, London, S.W.1

PATRONS

HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN
HER MAJESTY QUEEN ELIZABETH, THE QUEEN MOTHER
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ALICE COUNTESS OF ATHLONE
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ARTHUR OF CONNAUGHT

VICE-PRESIDENTS

HER GRACE WINIFRED DUCHESS OF PORTLAND

THE EARL OF SHAFTESBURY, KP, PC

SIR MALCOLM SARGENT, HON LLD, D MUS, FRCM, FRSA
COLONEL R. M. POWELL, DSO

 

THE COUNCIL (1952-1953)

AGIUS, THE REV DOM. AMBROSE, 088, MA
*ALLIBERT, MRS
*ALSOP, ALDERMAN A. J., FCRA, FCIS, JP
BERTIE OF THAME, THE RT HON THE VISCOUNTEss
BRANSOM, MISS L. (3., FRSA
BYWATER, H. E., ESQ, MRcvs
*COOPER, ALDERMAN J. D., JP
DAWES, CAPTAIN H. w., CBE, MRcvs
DORCHESTER, LT-COL THE RT HON LORD, OBE, JP
‘DOWDELL, MRS
ESTCOURT-OSWALD, MISS AGNES, MB (LOND), DPH
(CANTAB), DOMS
*EVANS, MRS DAVID, BA

Vice-Chairman: *MRs WALLIS

GASKOIN, c. J. 13., ESQ., MA
GREENWOOD, ANTHONY, ESQ, MA, MP
*HARVEY, MRS J. w., MA
*HOCKIN, C. OWEN, ESQ
HOGG, S. R., ESQ, DSO, MC
*HUNTER, MISS
LEE, MRS
LOCKWOOD, LT-COL J. c., JP, TD, MP
LONGMAN, MRS W.
MOORE, LT-COL SIR THOMAS, CBE, MP
*PARKER, MAURICE G., ESQ, MISAC

Chairman: THE RT HON LORD MERTHYR, DL, JP

POWER, JP

POWELL, COL R. M., DSO
RATTRAY, R. F., ESQ, MA, I’H.l).
*RIECK, H. H., ESQ
SHAFTESBURY, THE RT HON THE COUNTESS 0P
SIBLY, W. A., ESQ, MA, JP
SNELL, THE REV PREBENDARY L. J. 3., MBE, TD, JP
SOMERS, THE RT HON LORD
TAIT, MRS, BA
TERRINGTON, THE RT HON LORD, KBE, MA
THOMAS, W. s. RUSSELL, ESQ
TUFNELL, LIEUT-COMMANDER R. L., MA, RN
*WALFORD, MRS DESBOROUGH

 

 

*WHITE, HARRY, ESQ, PCA
*WINCHESTER, F. J., ESQ, PCIS, FSS

 

FREEMAN, PETER, ESQ, MP POULETT, THE RT HON THE EARL

* Denotes Branch Representative

OFFICE BEARERS APPOINTED BY THE COUNCIL

Hon Treasurer—LT-COL .I. c. LOCKWOOD, JP, TD, MP
Deputy Hon Treasurer—HARRY WHITE, ESQ, FCA
Hon Medical Ofﬁcer—A. F. WHYTE, ESQ, MB, CHB Legal Secretary—J. HALL, ESQ

Bankers—MESSRS COUTTS AND co, STRAND, LONDON Chief Veterinary Ofﬁcer—MAJOR R. c. c. HANCOCK, Bsc, MRCVS

Auditors—MESSRS VINEY, PRICE AND GOODYEAR, CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS

 

Chief Secretary—ARTHUR W. Moss, ESQ, MBE, ACIS
Assnstant Secretary—D. A. L. CAMM, ESQ, BA

Telegrams—WHITEHALL 7 1 77

,llSED &TRIISTED

Telephone—Whitehall 7177

 

 

THE *WORlD OVER '

  
  

 

COVER PICTURE
‘Forever Amber’ is the name Of
the cover picture cat—pet Of

Mrs Gladys Rees, Porthcawl.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FLAG DAY EQUIPMENT

Organizers are asked to order supplies at
least FOUR weeks before the date of the
collection. This enables supplies to be care-
fully checked on arrival and gives ample time
to indent for additional equipment should
more collectors be available than originally
anticipated and/or if it is found insufﬁcient
materials have arrived. Further, it enables
organizers to distribute tins, etc., to collectors
a few days before the date of the Flag Day—
always a useful procedure.

   

f \V .
SAIL.
_ SURE 715?“:ng

CAPTIVE BOLT PISTOL
FOR ALL ANIMALS

BIRMINGHAM ~ I;

 
    

ECCIIS lllll SHELVOKE [ID

ENGLAND
5465

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

74 THE ANIMAL WORLD

July 1954

 

 

\

w-

_ a: - 111th .essan g g r

FREE AS A BIRD

‘Free as a bird!’ we say, and yet, many a wild bird
robbed of the simple right of freedom would
never know it again except for the intervention
of the RSPCA.

Hardly a day goes by, at the right season, but
some RSPCA Inspector, his heart bounding with
joy, will open the door of a cage to allow a green—
finch, chaffinch or linnet to spread her wings and
soar into the air.

In recent months, this happy scene has been
witnessed with uncommon frequency, for the
RSPCA has taken a large number of prosecutions
for offences involving wild birds. At the very
earliest opportunity, when the RSPCA has been
able to get possession of them, the birds have
been given their freedom.

Though offences have shown a certain variety,
the effect for the birds has always been the same:
the loss of precious liberty.

vex

A quick glance through RSI‘LIA records shows
four cases against one man alone, and all of them
heard within a period of twelve days. His offence
in each instance was that of otl'ering certain wild
birds for sale~~his merchandise greenﬁnches,
chatlinches and a linnet: all of them other than
closearinged specimens l‘I‘cd in captivity.

Offered at 73. (id. (a cock’hird) and 53. (a hen),
the greenlinches are tvpical. They were likely to
spend their lives as prisoners. Luckily, instead,
they fell into the hands of the l‘xSl’CA and were
released. The man oll'ering them for sale was
given lines of [I 105. and [I (live times) and had
to pay costs totalling L22 ls. [11 some of the
cases, two ‘informations‘ were laid.

For 53. someone might have owned the very
hen greenlinch whom the RSI’CA released. She
would now be pining, maybe. in a narrow cage
in some shadowd‘lackened alley. Had nature
equipped her, as it had the man who offered her
for sale, with the power of thinking, she might
have been recalling sadly the happy days when
she was ‘as free as a bird'.

EDITOR

(The RSI’CA reference numbers of the cases
quoted are: A.7920; A.79.Zl ; AJQZS and A.7946.)

 

 

(Photo by courtesy of the Daily Mirror)
A guillemot cleaned after contamination with ' ‘ '
. , 01!,

m front of the ﬁre at the home of Inspector Hecegned

ST ARLINGS EXONERATED

A report published recentl in the Ne '
shows that boys of Boothaym Schoolf$ocfiimlrigvlg
ended an investigation into the lives and habit
of the starling. It has taken twenty—ﬁve years and
their findings ﬁll sixty—five foolscap sheets ’
Their booklet might well be called ‘The Star.

 

ling—~a Vindication’.

It destroys the popular fallacy that the bird is
the blackguard of the sky.

Instead of damage, the starling does good. He
eats more leatheivjackets than any other bird, and
prevents the ruin of thousands of cricket fields,
bowling greens and gardens.

PIGEONS PLUCKED ALIVE

Valuable racing pigeons stolen from lofts on C6?
tain allotments had feathers pulled out of thelr
wings by two schoolboys.
ending the two boys to a remand home {01: a

month’s detention, from Ashington Juvémle
Court recently, the Chairman said: ‘It is a serious
matter, torturing these birds.’

The boys, both of whom were said to have

ept pigeons of their own, appeared with tWO
Others, and all admitted charges relating to thefts
of racing pigeons from local lofts.

Three were fined ﬁve shillings and for other
0 ences were given conditional discharges'

(A.8152; Inspector Marshall.)

THE PROTECTION OF BIRDS ACT

This Measure has now received Royal Assent
6 Act incorporates the main prOViSif’nS O
t e various existing laws for bird prOteCtlon’
summary of the Act will, it is hOped, be pu
lished in a future number of Animal Wmld‘

 

 

 




 

76 THE ANIMAL WORLD

July 1954-

 

 

THEY WANTED MORE

‘I had great difﬁculty’ reports one RSPCA School
Lecturer ‘in getting away from this school; my
car was surrounded by children still wishing to
ask questions’.

This is only one proof of the growing interest
shown by children in the RSPCA’s lesson of
kindness.

Since the last report 164 lectures were given
in schools in Devon, Buckinghamshire, Wiltv
shire, Surrey, Sussex, Monmouthshire, Glouces—
ter, Bedfont, Crayford, Northamptonshire and
the London area. The Hayes Young Britons
Group was also addressed.

Forty—four new Animal Defender groups were
formed; 495 children joined the Headquarters
Group.

 

jackdaw Group Animal Defenders listen to an RSPCA
Inspector as he tells them about animal welfare

 

IS THIS THE WAY TO PUT DOWN
RABBITS?

Warmer weather is likely to spread the rabbit
disease (myxomatosis) more widely in this
country. LAURENCE EASTERBROOK
utters a warning about this man—made plague.
(This article is reprinted, with acknowledgments,
from the News Chronicle, where it originally
appeared during the spring.)

We have just planted three and a half miles of
trees for the very reasonable sum of £33 113. 5d.
This covers the cost of the trees and putting
them in. ~

For this I receive a subsidy of £30 from the
Forestry Commission, assuming we have made
a decent job of them.

But before Mr Stanley Evans bursts a blood
vessel, there is another item that I ought to men,
tion. It is essential that I should protect these
trees from the attention of rabbits.

I’ve thought

For that I need 1,000 yards of wire netting, 200
posts and the work of two men for about three
days. So rabbits have added £76 183. 10d. to the
cost of the whole undertaking.

Little wonder, therefore, that I have several
times found myself speculating on the advantages
of introducing myxomatosis to the rabbits on
my farm. '

This is the virus disease that spreads like wild—
ﬁre among rabbits and kills them off in immense
numbers.

It has exterminated the rabbits on large areas
in Australia, where the mortality rate is 95 per
cent. It is widespread in France and has been
reported in Holland, Germany and Belgium. It
has reached England. , '

I’ve decided

What a relief it would be to have no more rabbits

eating the corn and nibbling down the pasture
at a consumption rate of ﬁve rabbits equalling
one sheep.

It would save us, on an average, about £20 a
year in wire, as much in labour, and possibly
another £30 a year in food that has been keeping
rabbits instead of farm animals. And we are not
badly afflicted with rabbits.

So I have had to ask myself quite seriously
how enthusiastic I feel about the Ministry of
Agriculture’s efforts to prevent the spread of this
disease among English rabbits. Having thought
out all the implications, I am quite certain that
the Ministry are absolutely right.

Dangerous

Nearly everyone would agree that it would be
undesirable to exterminate our hares and spread
the disease among the many domestic rabbits
that are kept for proﬁt and pleasure.

If myxomatosis became general, that is what
would happen.

Again, once we begin playing about with things
like this, we don’t really know where we are
getting to.

We are ﬁnding that our sprays and poisons in
other realms of Nature are already producing
strains that are immune to them.

The latest news from Australia is that myxomav
tosis is beginning to lose its virulence and more
rabbits are surviving it.

So there is no guarantee, or even any hopeful
sign of a guarantee, that the introduction of this
disease, under which rabbits die in great agony,
would free us of rabbits.

Then there is the moral aspect.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

78 THE ANIMAL WORLD

My 1954

t“-

Too Ill to Stand

 

This steer, in his efforts to rise, had dug a trench with his feet.
and a police constable in a bramble clum p in a ﬁeld. At the time
strength enough to raise his head; the bones were stick'ing through the skin.

At Norwich Magistrates’ Court, to which the owner was brou
suffering to the steer by unreasonably omitting to provide pr
not seen the animal for four or five days, but he had noticed it

The animal was found by Chief inspector McCluskey
, the steer was in a very exhausted state and had not

ght .by the RSPCA (charged with causing unnecessary
oper care and attention), the owner said that he had
was ‘going down’. A veterinary surgeon called to the

ﬁeld immediately gave the steer a humane end. The owner was fined £20 and ordered to pay £l4 ls. costs. (A7674)

ELEPHANT BEAT EN: KEEPER FINED

A Ceylonese elephant ‘boy’ (a man aged 56) was
ﬁned £5 at Brighton for beating a baby elephant
on the trunk and causing the animal unnecessary
suffering. He was ordered to pay £10 costs.

Denying the charge, which was brought against
him by the RSPCA, he said he was trying to stop
the elephant drinking cold water, which was dan—
gerous for it. '

Trunk Injured
Counsel for the RSPCA said the blows were

struck with great violence. Next day two cuts
with congealed blood were found on the trunk.
The elephant had been appearing at a music hall
and was housed in certain stables. Ofﬁce workers
saw the incident from ofﬁces overlooking the
stables.

One witness said he saw water being heated in
a vessel. The elephant put his trunk in and half
emptied it. The elephant ‘boy’ took up a piece of
wood and belaboured the animal. He struck half
a dozen blows, the ‘violent blows of an angry
man’.

Veterinary Evidence

A veterinary surgeon said that in his opinion the
wounds were caused by ‘direct blows of fantastic
force’. If they were caused by the piece 9f wood

as described, the animal must have suffered. He
did not agree that cold water was dangerous to
elephants. Another veterinary surgeon said‘ that
the elephants under the care of the elephant boy
were in excellent condition. He could ﬁnd I10
mark of ill usage at all.

Forty—two Years’ Experience

In evidence, the elephant ‘boy’ had said he had
been looking after elephants for forty—two years
and there had been no complaint about his
treatment of them.

This elephant had put her trunk in the water
and he pushed her back with his hands and wlth
a piece of wood which he took from a packing
case. He did not strike her with the wood. The
Chairman of the magistrates said that the bench
was satisﬁed the animal was chastised harder
than was necessary. As the elephant ‘boy had
worked in Britain for many years he would ﬁne

him £5. (A.7872. Inspector Jackson.)
KITTEN THROWN INTO STOVE

A man who threw a kitten into a stove Was
sent to prison for three months at BOW
Street, London. '

‘I cannot imagine any example of sheer wantfm
cruelty more grave than this,’ said the Chlef
Metropolitan magistrate, -

_ ﬁw‘.

 

 

 




 

 

80 THE ANIMAL WORLD

BRANCH NEWS

   

pet of Mrs E. Idden

Alton, Haslemere, PeterSﬁeld and District Miss E. Craig
addressed the branch annual general meeting. Lady Dorman-
Smith, branch chairman, was in the chair and the meeting
was organized by Mrs H. Tollemache, branch hon secretary.
Brigadier Antrobus spoke and a report was submitted by
Inspector Mahony. Lady Thessiger was present. Mr C. R.
Davies, branch organizer, gave a talk on the general work
of the RSPCA.

Berks—Newbury and District At the branch annual meet-
ing, organized by Mrs Waites (branch hon secretary), Mr
C. R. Davies, branch organizer, spoke on the work of the
RSPCA.

Blackpool Mrs Marie Bradley Beecroft of Kirkham organized
a jumble sale and raised £10 153. for branch funds.
Bournemouth and District Mrs Wyatt, Christchurch aux-
iliary hon secretary, has received this story from Mrs L. F.
Thomas:

‘When we lived in Tresco, Australia, a black and white
mongrel dog attached himself to us and we become very
fond of him. I had driven to a large hall, where we were
giving a concert. Joe followed us. When we arrived, the horse
was taken out of the buggy and the dog slept under it.
There were various items before my turn came to sing. After
almost the ﬁrst note of my song, Joe trotted up the aisle,
jumped on the platform and squatted contentedly at my
feet, much to the enjoyment and amusement of the audience.
The song ﬁnished, Joe trotted back to his resting place.
I. gave an encore: back came Joe. It must have been an hour

 

'(Photo by courtesy of Western Times)

This picture was taken when Countess
Fortescue opened the RSPCA Welfare
Centre at Lynton

July 1954

before I was called upon to sing in the second half of the
programme, the same thing happened! Along came old
faithful for song and encore.’

Bromley and District (Kent) Sir Frank S. Alexander, branch
president, took the chair at the annual general meeting at the
Public Library, Bromley. Sir Frank presented awards to
three children who had rescued a dog hanging from a tree.
The children were Brian Randall, June Tickner and Irene
Cox. Mrs Hill, branch hon secretary, reported a year of
steady progress. She mentioned the brave act of Mr Eirwen
Jones who received the RSPCA bronze medal for rescuing
a cat marooned in a tree. Harry Goldsmith, a twelve-year-
old, received a book for rescuing a bird. The report of the
hon treasurer, Mr A. Bourneman, showed that income at
£1,489, was £24 up. Senior Inspector Goodenough reported
that he had investigated 147 complaints of cruelty. Reports
were submitted from the auxiliaries of Bromley, Biggin Hill,
Chislehurst, Coney Hall, Hayes, Keston, Orpington, Petts
Wood and West Wickham and from the Bambi, Whippet,
Stag and Reindeer Animal Defender Groups. Mr Roland
Ampleford, Parliamentary Organizer, gave an address.

Mrs Simmons, Biggin Hill auxiliary co'hon secretary,
reports that a whist drive in Biggin H111 raised £4 14s. for
branch funds.

*

Mr Bell arranged a pet show at St Mary Cray Primary
ScClliool. Senior Inspector and Mrs Goodenough acted as
ju ges.

Bury (Lanes) and District The Hon C. K. Brooks, branch
chairman, presided at the Bury Animal Defenders’ prize
presentation held at the New Technical College, Bury.
Mrs Wingﬁeld-Digby presented the prizes to 106 children
for their essays. Mrs Hopkinson, branch hon secretary
and League chairman, Miss Smethurst, animal defender
group hon secretary, and committee members were present.
Clevedon Division Mrs Willcocks, division hon secretary,
organized a whist drive in Clevedon, and the proceeds were
for branch funds.

Craven and Upper Wharfedale The guest speaker .at the
branch annual meeting in the Council Chambers, Keighley,
was Miss Naomi Jacobs. Mr G. B. Drayson, branch preSI-
dent, took the chair for part of the meeting. Lt-Col Coventry,
branch organizer, moved a vote of thanks to the speaker and
the Mayor. (Branch co hon secretaries, Mr and Mrs S. M.
Douglas; branch hon treasurer, Mr V. E. Pitts.)
Dorset—South Miss A. Hannay, co auxiliary hon secretary
for Dorchester, reports that a bring-and-buy sale raised £30
for branch funds. . .
Finchley, Golders Green, Hendon and District The Marjorie
Calkin School of Dancing organized a dancing display at
the Victoria Hall, N3, and raised £8 4s. 9d. for branch funds.
Mr C. R. Davies, branch organizer, spoke on the activ1ties
of the RSPCA.

Fylde At a coffee morning organized by the. Lytham
auXiliary branch at the Buttery Cafe, Lytham, MlSS Linda
Dawson presented a bouquet to the Mayoress of Lytham

n. N ..................

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

82 THE ANIMAL WORLD

 

July 1954

 

 

‘MICKY’, pet of Mrs Odden, S. Harrow

Kent—North West The annual general meeting of the
branch was held at the YMCA, Dartford. The branch
chairman, Mr W. Honess, presided and welcomed Mrs
Dowdell, group representative on the Council, and Mr
Joiner from Headquarters. Mrs W. Honess, branch hon
secretary, in her report, stated that the branch continued to
make exceptional progress, and the chairman stressed the
fact that this was due to all the hard work put in by the
auxiliary honorary secretaries and their helpers. Branch
ﬁnances were in a good position. Mrs Gordon Parker was
elected a vice-president of the branch, and the ofﬁcers and
committee were all re-elected. Mrs Dowdell and Mr Joiner
addressed the meeting. A report was submitted by Senior
Inspector Stephens.

* .
At Northumberland Heath Primary School, Mrs E. Reid,
‘Erith and Belvedere auxiliary hon secretary, was presented
with a cheque for £12 163. 6d. by Mr E. N. Payne, head-
master. The children of his school had made this collection
for branch funds during their school holidays. Mrs Fagg,
auxiliary chairman, and Mrs Moss, auxiliary hon treasurer,
were present. Senior Inspector Stephens talked to the
children on the kindness and care of animals.
Kidderminster and District The branch annual meeting
was held in the gardens of Sir George and Lady Eddy’s
home, The Platts. Sir George Eddy, branch president, paid
tribute to Miss Jane Badland, who is now 102. She was
present at the meeting with her sister Caroline, aged 98, who
was honorary secretary of the branch for many years. The
committee’s report submitted by Miss Osborne, branch hon
secretary, showed that varied activities had been maintained.
A balance of £486 was revealed in the report submitted
by Mr L. H. C. Batt, hon treasurer. Mr C. D. Chadwick
moved the re-election of all ofﬁcers and this was unanimously
approved. Mr Roland Ampleford, Parliamentary organizer,
from Headquarters, gave an address and a report on his
work for the year was submitted by Senior Inspector Cleary.
Lancashire—East and Blackburn The president, the Hon
Mrs R. Assheton, JP, presided over the branch annual
meeting at the Sessions House, Blackburn. Reports were
submitted by Mrs A. Edmondson, hon secretary, and Mr
"A. Spencer, hon treasurer as well as Senior Inspector Cam-
eron. An outline of RSPCA work was givenby Wing-Comdr
Hillier, branch organizer. Mrs Tattersall, branch chairman,
moved a vote of thanks to the president and speakers.
Lancaster City Division The annual meeting of the Division
was held at the Town Hall, Lancaster, when the Mayor and
Mayoress of Lancaster (Councillor and. Mrs N. B. Gorril)
were present. The Mayor was voted to the chair. Miss E.
Pattinson, division hon secretary, and Senior Inspector Oxley
presented their reports which were taken as read. Mr Thomas
Rack was presented with a certiﬁcate of merit by the Mayer

for his help in rescuing pigs from their ﬂooded piggeries.
Major Chapman, branch organizer, addressed the meeting
on the work of the RSPCA.

Loughborough and North Leicestershire At the branch
annual meeting held in Loughborough Town Hall, the branch
chairman, Lady Crawshaw, presided. On the platform she
had the support of the Mayor and Mayoress, Alderman and
Mrs D. Smalley; Councillor L. W. Hull, Mayor-elect, as
well as the Archdeacon W. J. Lyon. Miss M. Harridge-
Cayless, branch hon secretary, submitted the report of a
busy year and Mr S. Caradine, hon treasurer, reported on
the ﬁnances. Inspector E. Paul’s report showed that he had
investigated eighty-four complaints of cruelty. Wing-Comdr
Hillier, branch organizer, spoke on the general work of the
Society.

 

PRESENTATION TO MRS HEAP

Left to right: Mrs W. S. Schoﬂeld, Miss Heathcote,

President and Hon Secretary of Dukinﬂeld Auxiliary;

Mrs F. Rawson-Schoﬁeld, 1P, Branch Co. Hon Secretary,
and Mrs Heap

Monmouthshire Mr C. T. Stephens, branch chairman, at
the annual general meeting said it had been a year of won-
derful achievement. Reports on branch activities were given
by Mrs H. Pughe-Evans, branch hon secretary, and Miss E.
Gunn, clinic hon secretary, as well as by Senior Inspector
Godley. Mr Roland Ampleford gave an address on the
Parliamentary work, and he was thanked by Col F. A.
Hamilton.

Mr A. Boucher, Abergavenny auxiliary hon secretary,
proposed a vote of thanks to Miss Radcliffe who, he sald,
had expressed her interest in the society by very practical
means. _

Newcastle-upon—Tyne Miss Carol Cunningham reports
that the Kingfisher Group of animal defenders have had
several talks and a ﬁlm show on animals.

A pet show and jumble sale organized in Wylam County
Primary School yard by Mrs Nicholson, Wylam-on-Tyne
auxrliary hon secretary, raised £15 for branch funds.

Norfolk—Mid and Norwich Colonel and Mrs Wingate-
Saul, co hon secretaries for Cromer auxiliary, organized a
bring-and-buy bazaar and raised £52 5s. for branch funds.
Norfolk West Mrs J. Mudie, Hunstanton auxiliary hon
secretary, reports that £25 7s. 3d. has been received from
Mrs C. Witley for branch funds. The sum represented part
of the proceeds from a pantomime.

Mrs Wingate-Saul reports that Mrs Cubitt organized at
Runton, a coffee party and a bring-and-buy sale and raised
£12 for branch funds.

Poole Borough The Countess of Shaftesbury attended
the annual meeting at the Dolphin Hotel, Poole. The chair
was taken by the branch vice-chairman, Lt-Col Kingston.

 

 

Han—a—a‘ -p-44..




 

 

 

 

84 THE ANIMAL WORLD

July 1954

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and Warwick, by the branch chairman, Lady Shuckburgh,
the Chief Constable of Warwickshire, Lt-Col G. White,
and the Vice-Chairman, Lt-Col J. McGhee.

Miss L. G. Bransom, Council member, impressed the
largest gathering ever to attend this branch meeting by her
sincere plea for understanding in the treatment of animals.
Lady Shuckburgh gave a vote of thanks to Miss Bransom
for her interesting talk. . '

All the branch ofﬁcials were re-elected for the coming
year. (Report received from Miss D. Lake, branch organizing
secretary.)

Leamington Ladies auxiliary organized the fourth chil-

dren’s pet show. The animals were judged by a veterinary,
surgeon and Inspector Lightbown commented on the excel-
lent condition of them all. The Mayor and Mayoress of
Leamington visited the show during the afternoon and spoke
to all the entrants with their pets. Prizes were presented by
Lady Shuckburgh to the winners.
Westmorland Lady Chance, branch president, attended the
Grasmere and Langdale auxiliary annual general meeting
at Rothay Bank, Grasmere. Mrs Crewdson, branch chair-
man, and Mrs Perrott, asst branch hon secretary, were
present. The chair was taken by the auxiliary chairman, the
Rev R. C. Tait. Lt-Col Coventry, branch organizer, gave
an address. ’ . '
Wiltshire—Marlborough and District The branch presi-
dent, B—Col C. Hughes, presided at the branch annual
meeting. All ofﬁcers and committee members were re-elected.
Mrs Desborough Walford, Council member, said a few
words at the meeting which was addressed by Wing-COmdr
‘ Hillier, branch organizer.

‘DUSKY’

 

Mrs Carter-Ruck, Auxiliary Hon Secre-
tary for Gerrards Cross, sends this pic-
ture with this note: .

‘Dusky’, aged 2l years 1

My daughter, Mrs Peter Greig, has
always looked after him entirely her-
self—has had him for l5 years

Wiltshire—North A gymkhana was organized by Mr W. E.
Stevens in aid of the branch. It was held in Ivy Fields, Bath
Road, Chippenham, by kind permission of Mr A. Foster.
Mrs D. Wheeler, branch hon secretary and Mr G. V. R.
Jefferys, branch hon treasurer, were present as well as
Inspectors Hussey and Larkin.
Windsor, Eton, Slough, Staines and Uxbridge Mr H. But-
ton, West Drayton auxiliary hon secretary, has received
from the Clerk of Yiewsley and West Drayton Urban
District Council a letter containing this resolution: ‘That
the Council place on record their appreciation of the excel-
lent work done by the Yiewsley and West Drayton Branch
of the RSPCA.’
Worcestershire—East, and West Warwickshire The annual
meeting of Bromsgrove auxiliary was held at the De Grey’s
Cafe, Bromsgrove. The auxiliary president, Mrs J. Booth,
introduced Mr and Mrs A. J. Christie, branch chairman and
branch hon secretary respectively. The accounts were pre-
sented by Mr L. J. Tomlins who spoke of the excellent work
being done by the auxiliary hon secretary, Mrs B. O. Lazenby.
Ofﬁcers were re-elected and Mr Kenneth Tolhurst, Birming-
ham and district branch secretary, gave an address.
W0rcestershire——West, and Malvern Wing-Comdr Hillier,
branch organizer, addressed the branch annual meeting at
which all ofﬁcers and committee members were re-elected.
Later in the day he addressed the Church fellowship of
Staunton. _
Yorkshire——Barnsley and District At the branch annual
meeting, Mr G. Parﬁtt, Chief Constable of Barnsley, was
re-elected chairman; Mr B. S. Babbershon, hon secretary;
Mr T. W. Smithson, hon treasurer; and Mr S. Sedman,
hon assistant treasurer.

RSPCA FILM NEWS

The Society’s ﬁlms were sent to the following places for
showing recently: ,

Teignmouth, Brixton, Reading, Crofton Park, Canvey
Island, Delabole, Mexborough, Preston, Tilehurst, Maccles—
ﬁeld, Newport Pagnell, Maltby, Norwich, Malton, Cambois,
Halifax, Lightwater, Mortimer, Pangbourne, Gateshead,
Nutbourne, Walthamstow, Dagenham, East Dean, New—
port, Chester, Chard, Shilbottle, Linton, Winton, Belford,
Amble, Streatham, Clapham, Workingham, Ashtonrunder-
Lyne, Hereford, Maidenhead, Bradley, Henley—on—Thames,
Warrington, Congleton, Blackburn, Knaresborough, Din-
nington, Framlingham, Heywood, Whitchurch, Bradﬁeld,
Theale, Goring, Longbenton, Taunton, Findon, Isles of
Scilly, Alnwick, Gresford, Portland, Hull, Hexham,
Chelsham Common, Woodmansterne, N. Kensington,

Willes den.

HOUSE'TO—HOUSE COLLECTIONS

(We give, wherever possible, the place at which the house—to—
house collection was made, and the name of the organizer or
organizers. )

South Durham and North Yorkshire, Mrs Allinson,
Shildon auxiliary hon secretary, £30 115. 10d.; Essex Mid,
Mrs Aubrey and Mrs French, £34 65. 5d.; Southport,
Birkdale and District, Miss Still, £9 13.; Sussex West and
Brighton, Mrs Court, £1 165.; Cleveland and Tees Side,
Mrs Hart, branch hon secretary, £41 55. 7d.; Merthyr
Tydfil and District, Mrs Banner, Rhondda‘ auxiliary,
£126 7s. 8d.; Warwickshire South and East, Mrs S. L.
Hutchby, £66 15. 9d.; Norfolk Mid and Norwich, Mrs
Shearer, £4 15. 3d.; Grimsby and District, Mrs D. M.
Clapham, branch hon secretary, £80 45. 2d.; Essex Mid,
Mrs Campbell, Harold Wood auxiliary hon secretary,
£45 133. 4d.; Upchurch, Mrs Know, auxiliary hon secrev
tary, £3 13s.”; Dorset North, Mrs Montague, Wimborne
auxiliary hon secretary, £36 175.; Barnet and District,
Brookman’s Park, Mrs Tingey, auxiliary hon secretary,

£17 85. 6d.

new:
WU_W@7>Ew77$ﬂm7mmmammmvmmmmmmm

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

@WEE‘COl—EMS

Manufacturers of

UNIFORM CLOTHING

 

HOBSON & SONS CAPS HELMETS LEATHER
(LONDON) LTD

 

BELTS POUCHES etc. etc.

 

Gold and Silver Laces
Embroideries of every
All enquiries to descrlptlon for ALL

154-164 TOOLEY STREET UNIFORMED SERVICES

LONDON BRIDGE S.E.1 PATTERNS OF CLOTH
and ESTIMATES
Telephone: HOP 2476 (4 lines) will be forwarded free of charge
Telegrams: HOBSON, BOROH, LONDON

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

R.S.P.C.A_=

 

 

FORM OF BEQUEST FOR NATIONAL WORK

To those benevolent individuals who may wish to become benefactor-s byWill to this
Society, the following form is respectfully suggested:—

‘I bequeath to the ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY To ANIMALS, founded

1824, for the general purposes of that Society, the sum of £ ............................................ , free

of death duty and the receipt of the Treasurer for the time being of the said Society shall

be sufﬁcient discharge for such legacy.’ (If it should be desired that the legacy should be ex—

pended on some particular phase of the Society’s work, a direction to this eﬁect may be added to the

form of bequest.)

 

NOTE
By the Act of William IV and I Victoria, cap. 26, all Wills or Codicils must be in Writing signed by the

Testator, and attested by two witnesses in the presence of the Testator and of each other.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Printed by Shenval Press, Simson Shand Ltd, London, Hertford and Harlow, and
published by Arthur W. Moss for the RSPCA at 105 Jermyn Street, London ,SW1

 




