 

 

 

April 1953

vice-president, Mrs A. Boyd; hon treasurer, Mr J.,N..

Smith; hon secretary, Mrs James Crabtree.
Lincolnshire—South, and Grantham Mr C. R. Jones,
branch hon treasurer, at the ATC Hut, Grantham, presented
to Mr Murden the certiﬁcate of merit awarded to the mem-
bers of the Grantham ﬁre station for the rescue of a horse
from a well. Mr Watson, MRCVS, who assisted in the
rescue, alsoreceived a certiﬁcate of merit. Senior Inspector
Meara received a commendation. At the request of Miss
N. V. M. Pim, branch co hon secretary, Senior Inspector
Meara said a few words about the work of ‘the "RSPCA.
Miss Pim, who organized the presentation, had the support
of Miss M. Lynn, co hon secretary. ' '
Loughborough and North Leicestershire Miss M, Harridge-
Cayless. branch hon secretary, reports that a whist drive
raised £19. Prizes were given as well as items to be auctioned.
Lady Crawshaw, branch president, presented the prizes.
Norfolk West Mrs J. Robson, a member of Kings Lynn
auxiliary committee, arranged for the West Winch Players
to give the proceeds of a two-day pantomime to the local
branch. The title was ‘The New Leok Cinderella’, script by
Mr Remant, producer, assisted by Mrs Robson who ar-
ranged the dances. The orchestra was under Mrs Laws and
managed by Mr Sandover, sen. At the request of Mrs
Robson, Senior Inspector Morrison attended the second
night and on. behalf of the Society received £10,. being the
proceeds of the show. Senior Inspector Morrison thanked
everyone for the splendid effort.

 

Minaloushe, once a poor stray, but now, as his picture

shows, the happy pet of Mrs ]. Heaton-Thomas of Kil-

macanogue, Co Wicklow. Minaioushe is a great friend of

Mrs Heaton-Thomas, her daughter and of Rory the Dach-
shund and Poppet the West Highland Terrier

North Westmo‘rland Division Mrs Wilkinson, Appleby
auxiliary hon secretary, organiZed a producer and jumble
sale and raised a proﬁt of £32 105. 3d. for the Animal- Distress
Fund. . . ,

Poole Borough Pupils of Caroleen Warren gave a dramatic
entertainment at the Centenary Hall, Poole, in aid of branch
funds. Most members of the branch' committee attended. As
well as pieces given by girls trained under Mrs Warren, turns
were given by pupils of Mrs Castle. During the. interval
Alderman Bright, JP, Poole branch chairman, thanked Mrs
Warren and Mrs Castle and all performers for their help.
Chief Inspector Best spoke brieﬂy about the work .of the
RSPCA. ' ‘ - , , .
Scarborough Mr N. Beanland, branch hon secretary, re—
ports that a whist drive organized ,by Mrs C. Rlckardsand
IMiss Lewin at Kirbymoorside, raised £8 16s. 7d. for branch
unds. .

Somerset—North Miss M. C. Wiens, Winscom-be. auxiliary
hon secretary, reports that RSPCA ﬁlms were shown re-
cently ‘in the auxiliary. A collection was taken for the
Animal Distress Fund. ' _ i . '
Somerset—~South The annual meeting of the Minehead

THE ANIMAL WORLD 45-

auxiliarywas held in the Methodist Schoolroom. The Re v
waiter Floyd, in the chair, reported on the year’s activities
Mr H. J. Craske, hon treasurer, presented his ﬁnancial
report for 18 months to December 3-1, 1952, sho wing-an
income of £214 133. 361., including a ﬂag day collection of
£115, and the result of two ‘Bring-and-Buy’ sales organized
by Mrs Stirling Cooper (held in her garden), £58 33. 3d. The
committee were elected for the ensuing year. At the general
meeting, whichvfollowed, the chairman introduced Mr Allan
Joiner, from Headquarters, who gave a stimulating address
on the work of the Society. Senior Inspector Newbury fol-
lowed with a report of his work. (Aux hon sec: Miss P.
Archer.)

Surrey—Kingston, Surbiton, District and South Middlesex
Mrs Liddicoat entertained the Youth Fellowship of All
Saints Church, Kingston, and Inspector Liddicoat spoke to
the Fellowship about RSPCA work.

Vale of Derwent Division Miss Coey, division chairman,
presiding over the division annual meeting at Maltcn, said
that the RSPCA had done a magniﬁcent job of work in
rescuing animals and household pets from the ﬂoods. A re-
port on this work was given by Major Pulleine, branch
organizer. Mrs Pye-Oliver, division hon secretary, spoke of
the paSt year as having been a successful one. An address
on the work of the RSPCA was given by Mr S. G. Watson,
branch hon secretary for Huddersﬁeld. Miss Coey was re—
elected chairman of the committee, with Mrs G. Bell as vice-
chairman. Mrs Pye-Oliver was re-elected hon secretary, Mr
Moss was elected hon treasurer, and the committee was also
re-elected. ,
Westmorland Mrs Gurney, hon secretary of Levens auxili-
ary, organized a dance and raised £4 for branch funds. Mrs
Gurney had the help of Mrs King. The sum raised was for
the Animal Distress Fund.

Wiltshire—North A dance organized by the Purton Gay
Nineties Olde Tyme Dancing Association raised £9 33. for
branch funds. Inspector Hussey thanked the organizers.
The sum raised was handed to Mrs May, Purton auxiliary
hon secretary.

Worcestershire—East, and West Warwickshire Speaking at
the branch annual meeting in De Grey’s Cafe, Bromsgrove,
on the Work of the Society, Mr Roland P. Ampleford,
Parliamentary Organizer, congratulated the branch on its
grand work and enthusiasm. Major L. M. Ryland, branch
hon secretary, underlined the handicap under which the
Society was working because of insufﬁcient funds. The
accounts presented by Miss L. M. Poole, branch hon
treasurer, showed an income for the year of over £700.
Inspector Nurse’s report showed that he had investigated 63
complaints of cruelty. The chairman, Mr W. R. H. Bartlett,
and Major Ryland warmly acknowledged the Inspector’s
unsparing services. (Report sent by Mrs B. O. Lazenby,
Bromsgrove auxiliary hon secretary. ,
Yorkshire-——Bradford and District At an exhibition organ-
ized by the Bingley Dog Safety Club, Mr H. Whitehead,
branch chairman, gave a talk on the work of the RSPCA.
Inspector A. W. Cole was invited to speak about stray dogs.

 

Mrs jean Bell, attendant at the RSPCA Doncaster Dogs’
Home, is seen with the brown and white terrier bitch whom
she rescued from under a shed

 




 

 

 

April 1953

THE ANIMAL WORLD 41

 

are controlling the operation, and in some in,
stances are having to milk the animals before they
can move them

Inspector Clarke, of Waltham, risked his life
in :16 ﬂoods many times throughout the week,
en

After that he tended marooned cattle.

He milked a hundred cows, and much of the
milk was saved for residents and rescuers.

The Times (London):
Army DUKWs were working with the RSPCA

to rescue and feed cattle on Foulness Island,
whence all civilians have been moved except five
volunteers who are caring for livestock

 

 

I [Photo by courtesy of john Charles, S. B’enfleet

ORPHANS OF THE STORM- ,

A few of the many rabbits saved on Canvey Island are
shown with an RSPCA rescue worker , .

Yorkshire Evening Post (Leeds): .

An RSPCA inspector, Mr J. COrcoran, has
been working solidly since Sunday, with just an
occasional break to eat and snatch a few hours’
sleep, rescuing animals, among them six sheep

(he found twenty’two drowned), eight cats from

houses and many others he found sitting on
fences stranded, a number of dogs and some birds
One dog he found in the dark ﬂoating about on a
piece of wood . .

 

[Photo by courtesy of John Charles, S. Benfleet

Sally the goose was one flood victim rescued by RSPCA
helpers at Canvey

Daily Mirror (reporting from Great Yar—
mouth):

When the first ﬂood/tide raced towering
through Yarmouth streets, Senior Inspector Tye,
of the RSPCA, sent out an SOS. Ten inspectors
from areas near Yarmouth loaded their ambu’
lances with ropes, torches and clothing and drove
to the town.

Mrs Tye borrowed beds and billeted them in
her small house. Meanwhile, eight miles away
at Acle, Miss'Castle, the s0ciety’s district honor
rary secretary, laid On a service to cope with the
animals when rescued. She got the use of forty
loose—boxes on the racecourse. She organized
coal, food and a team of voluntary helpers.

News of the World (reporting from Canv

- veY):

Suddenly he changed the subject ‘You ought
to talk to these RSPCA fellows. They’ re doing a

‘ ‘wonderful job. I’m only hoping we can get hold
of this poor beast.’

Evening Chronicle, Manchester (Ian Forbes,
reporting from Foulness):

In darkness today I joined a tired, very cold
band of soldiers and civilians—including ofﬁcials
of the RSPCA—who left Shoeburyness Garrison
at 5.30 am. to make the long trek across the mud,
ﬂats to the island.

In our lorry were thirty—four gallon tins of
water. There were hundreds of yards of rope and

tackle. With u's’were policemen

We were indeed a weird convoy, for as the
tide be an to go out we splashed our way, head
lights bIazing, through the darkness to habitations
which were now under water. .

 




 

 

April 1953

THE ANIMAL WORLD 47

 

 

IMPERIAL ETHIOPIAN SPCA

Very encouraging progress is reported by In;
spector H. D. Luetchford, seconded from the
RSPCA for duty in Addis Ababa for the pur—
pose” of establishing an animal protection society.

Training of ten Ethiopians as Inspectors is now
all but complete and the Inspector reports that his
pupils have proved able and willing. It is hoped to
have the official opening of an Animal Clinic and
Kennels established entirely as a result of the
Inspector’s efforts very soon.

Mr Luetchford had pressed for the introduc’
tion of a regulation forbidding the carrying of
fowls head downwards and tied by the legs. To
assist him in this RSPCA Headquarters gave infor’
mation about the English Act which prohibits the
unnecessary carrying of poultry by the legs, at the
same time urging that in any similar order he may
be successful in securing in Ethiopia, such con;
veyance of fowls be made illegal at all timesa—a
reform for which the Society has agitated here for
some time. The Inspector’s representations have
met with success and a new regulation has now
been promulgated. In this respect, therefore, the
Ethiopian law is in advance of that obtaining in
the United Kingdom.

Another very satisfactory outcome of the In«
spector’s presence in Ethiopia was his inter,
vention resulting in the refusal of the authorities
to grant a licence for the trapping and export of
wild animals for zoos and, probably, circuses.

ACTION BY ULSTER SPCA

An agitation on the part of the Ulster SPCA,
supported by the Ulster Farmers’ Union, has re;
sulted in the opening of a new abattoir for the
slaughter of horses in Belfast. It is said to be one
of the first of its kind in Ireland; one of its objects
is to prevent the suffering of horses sent overseas
for slaughter. When taken to the abattoir, the
horses are given a period of rest before going on
to the slaughter—house. The carcases will be
packed in insulated containers for shipping over’
seas, and byaproducts will be processed locally.
The capacity of the abattoir is a hundred horses
a week and stabling accommodation for ﬁfty
animals is provided.

      

92";

Animal Defenders, Alliance School, CMS, Dodoma, Tan-

ganyika Territory, with Archdeacon Banks, who is an ever-
willing helper of the RSPCA -

 

 

 

 

ALL DRESSED UP

 

Miss Vane, Welwyn Garden City Auxiliary joint hon

secretary, sends this flag day picture showing Red Riding

Hood and Dick Whittington and his cat. The characters
worked Very hard and collected over £8

THEY AGREED WITH THE RSPCA

One of the lecturers, reporting after a visit to a
school in So1ihull, found the girls already in the
main opposed to performing animal turns. What
was said against them warmed her heart and
made her think that all was not lost.

Since the last report 89 lectures were given in

 
   

schools in Kent, Sussex, Dorset, Surrey, Oxford,

‘Kimble (Bucks), Staines, Aldershot, Wallsend,

Copelaw (Durham), Romiley (Cheshire), Guise—
ley (Yorks), Solihull and the London area. A
group of Student Nursery Nurses, Hendon Tech—
nical College, the North Paddington Young
Briton Group, the Christian Adventurers Club,
Morden, Chingford Young Farmers’ Club, the
Witney Animal Defender group, and children’s
meetings at four public libraries in St Pancras,
Stoke Newington and Tottenham were also
addressed.

Thirty new Animal Defender groups were
formed; 477 children joined the Headquarters
group.

RSPCA HELPER WINS NATIONAL
TELEVISION AWARD

Miss Annette Mills, of television fame, has re
ceived a Daily Mail National Television Award
for the personality of the year on children’s
television. This news reaches us from Miss
Jamieson, Barnes Auxiliary hon secretary, who
has often been grateful for help given by Miss
Mills at RSPCA functions.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

LUXURY CARAVAN on a small public
site in the Mendip district to be let part
August and/or September. Low rent to ex-
perienced cat lovers willing to look after
one cat. Two adults only.

Wiens,
Bryony, Parson’s Way,
Winscombe, Som.

 

 

 

 

_E

IL

FLAG DAY
GOODS
Celluloid Buttons

LIST ON APPLICATION

THE UNIVERSAL BUTTON CO. LTD.
1-9 Birkbeck Street, Bethnal Green, LONDON, E.2
Telephone: BIShopsgate 5750 Telegrams: ‘Unibutco Edo’

Ll

 

 

 

 

 

 

TEMPLE COX CAPTIVE

BOLT SLAUGHTERING
GUNS

Specially recommended and used by the RSPCA

THREE MODELS—ALL SILENT IN
ACTION

‘UNIVERSAL’ for all animals
‘SMALLS’ for all small animals
‘MARK 6’ for all animals. Designed for heavy

use in large Abattoirs and Freezing Works

TEMPLE COX DEVELOPMENT CO. LTD
HIGH STREET, BROMLEY, KENT

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

@MHE'CCDIRMS

HOBSON & SONS
(LONDON) LTD

All enquiries to

154-164 TOOLEY STREET
LONDON BRIDGE S.E.1

Telephone: HOP 2476 (4 lines)
Telegrams: HOBSON, BOROH, LONDON

Manufacturers of

UNIFORM CLOTHING
CAPS HELMETS LEATHER
BELTS POUCHES etc. etc.

Gold and Silver Laces
Embroideries of every
description for ALL
UNIFORMED SERVICES

PATTERNS OF CLOTH
and ESTIMATES
will be forwarded free of charge

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

, ’ THE W - I
THE OFFICIAL MAGAZINE OF THE RSPCA

Vol XLVIII No 4. New Series

 

PRICE THREEPENCE

4s. 6d. per annum. Post paid

APRIL I 953

EVERY ANIMAL WAS HIS CONSTITIIENT

 

 

 

 

 

With the death on March 6 last of Sir
Robert Gower, KCVO, OBE, Hon DCL,
JP, the animal welfare cause has lost one of
its most doughty champions. Sir Robert
was a member of the RSPCA from his ear—
liest days. Elected to the Council of the
Society in 1927, he became Chairman the
following year and held that position with
distinction until 1950, when he was unaniv
mously elected President, an ofﬁce he held
until the day of his death.

Already a Member of Parliament on his
election to the Council, Sir Robert retired
from Parliamentary activities in 1945.
Determined to use his inﬂuence for the
good of animals, he founded the Parliaa
mentary Animal Welfare Group in 1929,
the ﬁrst such Group in any Parliament here

or elsewhere, and he acted as Chairman of
_ the Group from the time of its formation

until the day of his retirement. He intro—
duced and piloted through all stages the
Protection of Animals (Cruelty to Dogs)
Act, 1933, the Protection of Animals Act
of the following year, the Cinematograph
Films (Animals) Act of 1937, and the Dogs
Act of 1938.

Sir Robert was instrumental in getting the
Act of Incorporation of the RSPCA passed
through Parliament in 1932 and gave evidence
in the Committee stages of this measure.
The Act has had a profound inﬂuence in
regularizing the activities of the Society.

His championship of animals, in season
and out, gained for him the title of the
Animals’ MP, and no opposition—not even
the goodanatured ridicule of colleagues who
barked as they followed him about the
Lobby of the House of Commons—could
turn him from his dedicated task or dimina
ish the modest pride he took in knowing
that every animal could be regarded as his
constituent.

I knew him personally as a fair and busi«
ness~like Chairman of meetings—a quality
that permitted him to show kindness and
humanity with an efﬁciency that won the
respect of all.

That every animal could look to him for
protection was shown in his.- concern for
humane work abroad. In 1930 he visited
Vaugirard and offered on behalf of the
RSPCA to supply humane killers and cart—
ridges for the killing of horses in one of the
largest French abattoirs. The offer was ac—
cepted and such humane killing became the
rule, as it still is (though the killing of horses
in the presence of others is a practice still
demanding reform at Vaugirard).

I know that I speak for all readers of
ANIMAL WORLD and for every member and
supporter of the RSPCA in oerring to Lady
Gower sincerest condolences in her be—

reavement. W

 




 

 

A 3;:

 

THE ANIMAL WORLD 39

 

April 1953

 

helpers from the RSPCA London Headquarters

staff

Reinforcements

In the meantime RSPCA Headquarters telea
phoned other affected areas and had the following
reinforcements in position within the next
twentwaour hours:

Great Yarmouth and District: One senior inspec—
tor, six inspectors and two clinics’ staff.

Kings Lynn: One senior inspector and three
inspectors.

Isle of Sheppey: One regional superintendent,
four inspectors. .

Mablethorpe and Suttonvon—Sea: Three senior
inspectors, three inspectors.

During Monday an offer of an ambulance and
two clinics’ staff to be provided by the Scottish
SPCA was received and accepted and this party
was drafted into Mablethorpe.

, At Jaywick and St Osyth was established a party
comprising one senior inspector and one inspeca
tor.

 

At Thurrock, Tilbiiry and District: One senior
inspector, one inspector and one clinic assistant.

At Belvedere: One senior inspector and one
inspector.

Centres

At Louth the cattle market was established as
an animal clearance centre and at Great Yarmouth
the racecourse. This is typical of the ready imr
provisation undertaken by helpers on the spot;

Animals of every description are (as we go to
press) still in the care of the RSPCA, all of them,
from pigeons to cats and dogs, receiving plenty
of food and every possible care and attention.

In the Canvey Island area, which was one of the
worst hit, centres are being established for the
restoration and identification of animals by their
owners. These animals are in kennels and in
clinics wherever accommodation is available.

It would be almost invidious to name individual
acts of heroism, but from practically every area
come stories of bleak winds and conditions so
wintry that sea water actually froze.

Standing by

The breaching of sea walls and natural barriers
was so serious that risk of ﬂooding was present
for some time and emergency measures were
taken by the RSPCA. In every area men were held
in readiness and with them were their ambulances,
boats and amphibious craft: Animalambulances
were, of course, provided by the RSPCA, but the
Navy and Army authorities lent both boats and
amphibians.

Drinking water was needed in great quantities
and many dairies and other large companies lent

The DUKW into which rescued sheep are
being loaded by the RSPCA Inspectors
was lent by the Army. Vehicles and
vessels of every description were ob-
tained for use by the RSPCA. This picture

was taken at Foulness

   

churns and similar containers for carrying large
supplies of fresh water.

In all a total of nearly sixty men—comprising
practically one—ﬁfth of the entire clinic and
inspectorate staff of the RSPCA in England and
Wales—were sent to the ﬂooded areas. With the
threat of new ﬂoods RSPCA Headquarters had
to ask again for volunteers and among the first
to offer their services were the very men who had

‘ . been in the worst of the fray and who had worked
in cold, wet clothes for periods of eighteen and

more hours at a stretch. Honorary ofﬁcials and
other friends of the RSPCA worked with the

same selﬂess devotion.

 




 

TAprd 1953

THE ANIMAL'WORLD . %

 

T1113 FISI’CIA 1A17’VV()I{KI

FEBRUARY 1953
RSPCA INSPECTORS

2,019 Complaints of cruelty investigated.
63 Offenders ﬁned.
40 Persons guilty of minor acts of cruelty cautioned in writing.
740 Registered cautions were administered by Inspectors.

CLASSIFICATION OF CONVICTIONS

IIORSES—'~NL‘\Ql€Ctl71g‘, working in an unﬁt state, over-

loading, overdriving 5
CATTLE~~NC£lCCtiTIg, beating, travelling when in an

unfit state 4
I‘IGS—m-Neglecting 2
GOAT—“Neglecting . 1
DOGS» Neglecting, starving, killing in improper

manner, attempting to kill in improper

manner, shooting and wounding, perform—

ing operation without anaesthetic 21
CATS~~Neglecting, beating, killing in improper

manner . 4
FOWLS—-~Neglecting 2
GOOSE—~Starving 1
'rURKEY-i-Neglecting 1
DUCKS—Stoning . , 4
PIGEON——Pulling out feathers 1
OFFENCES UNDER THE PROTECTION OF BIRDS ACT, 1925:

Confining bird in small cage 1
OFFENCES UNDER THE WILD BIRDS PROTECTION ACTS: .

Being in possession of recently taken bird 1

Using traps for the purpose of taking 1

Using nets for the purpose of taking 1
VARIOUS OFFENCES:

Steel—tooth traps—set in open 9

Aiding and abetting in. offences . 2

Permitting in offences 2

TOTAL NUMBER OF CONVICTIONS 63

During FEBRUARY, 1953, Magistrates, at the request of the
RSPCA, disqualiﬁed FIFTEEN persons from owning a dog or
holding a dog licence. Disqualiﬁcations were as follows:

FIVE for LIFE; TWO for TEN years; THREE for FIVE years; ONE for
FOUR years; TWO for THREE years; TWO for TWELVE months.

Total number of COMPLAINTS from January Ist 4,279
Total number of CONVICTIONS from Januaryrst 135
Total number of CAUTIONS from January Ist 31,560

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS

No. of animals handled:
Cats, 4,146 Dogs, 3,250 Misc., 191 Total, 7,587
N o. of animals given emergency ﬁrst aid: 1,639

PlITNEY CONVALESCENT WARD

No. of animals handled:
Cats, 18 Dogs, 47 Misc., 0 Total, 65

NIGHT STAFF

‘ No. of calls received: 1,361

Miles covered by ambulance in respect of urgent calls: 1,261
No. of animals rescued: 4
No. of cases treated by veterinary surgeon: 176

NORTH WALES UNIT

First—aid cases: ~
' cats, 20 Dogs, 64 Misc., 0 Total, 84
No. of other animals handled by Unit:

Cats, 46 Dogs, 51 Misc., 0 Total, 97
No. of miles covered by Unit during month: 1,935

AWARDS

Current awards at present under review

RECORDS FOR 1952

COMPLAINTS 30,750
CONVICTIONS ... ... ... 962
CAUTIONS ‘ 11,599

HEADQUARTERS CLINICS » .,
No. of animals handled: 160,263

f NIGHT STAFF
No. of calls]: 19,839

. NORTH WALES UNIT
No. of animals handled: 3,083

AWARDS

Margaret Wheatley Cross... 1
Silver Medals 11
Bars to Silver Medals 3
Bronze Medals 52
Bars to Bronze Medals 5

-Merit Certiﬁcates 104

 

 




 

VOLUME XLVIII THREEPENCE APRIL 1953

\n‘

'.r‘r~

Photo] [Courtesy of Wykeham Studios Ltd., London

Faithful

VTHE OFFICIAL ORGAN OF THE RSPCA

 




ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

P A T R O N S
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN
HER MAJESTY QUEEN ELIZABETH, THE QUEEN MOTHER
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ALICE COUNTESS OF ATHLONE
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS ARTHUR OF CONNAUGHT

VICE-PRESIDENTS
HER GRACE WINIERED DUCHEss OF PORTLAND SIR MALCOLM SAROENT, ll()1\ LLI), D Mtrs, FRCM, FRSA

THE RT HON THE EARL OF SHAFTESBURY, KP, PC COLONEL R. M. l’()\\'I§I-I., I)SO

 

THE COUNCIL (1952-1953)

Chairman: THE RT HON LORD MER'TIIYR, DI., TI)
Vice-Chairman: *MRS WALLIS POWER, JP

*EVANS, MRS DAVID, BA
TREEMAN, PETER, ESQ, MP
GASKOIN, C. J. 8., ESQ, MA

TAGIUS, THE REv DOM. AMBROSE, 058, MA
*ALLIBERT, MRS
*ALSOP, ALDERMAN A. J., ECRA, FCIS, JP
BERE, SIR RUPERT DE LA, MP
BERTIE OF THAME, THE RT HON THE VISCOUNTESS
BRANSOM, MIss L. G., FRSA
BYWATER, H. E., ESQ., MRCVS
*CCOPER, ALDERMAN J. D., JP
” DAWES, CAPTAIN H. w., CBE, MRCVS
*DOWDELL, MRS

I’()I‘I I:I‘I, llll I(l HUN 'I HIE EARL
I’()\VI€I.I., (‘01. RM, DSO
RAI IRAY, lllI RI V DR R. F.

*HARVEY, MRS J. w., MA
*HOCKIN, C. OWEN, ESQ
HOGG. s. R., ESQ, DSO, MC
*HUNTER, MISS
LEE, MRS
LOCKWOOD, LT-COL J. C., JP, TD, MP
LONGMAN, MRS w.

SHAI’I'I'SIHIRY, IIII: R I‘ HON THE COUNTESS 0P
SIII|.\'. \V. .'\.. ISO, MA. JI’

SNI:I.I.. IIII- Rl-V I’RI‘IIUSNI)ARY L. J. 8., MBE, .IP
IIERRINGIUN, 'I III- R’I' IION LORD, KBE, MA
Ill()M.-\.\', \\'. S. Rl'SSI'l,I., IiSQ,

'I'III‘XNI I I , I ll'Iil-('()M.'\IANI)I{R R. L., MA RN

 

ERSKINE OF RESTORMEL, THE RT HON THE LORD MURRAY, BRIGADIER C. A.. CBIZ. MRCVS

l

l“\VAII’ORI), MRS BISHOROUGH
l"\"IIIII', HARRY, ISQ. FCA

 

ESTCOURT-OSWALD, MISS AGNES, MB (LOND), DPH
(CANTAB), DOMS

 

* Denotes Branch Representative

MOORE. LT-COL SIR THOMAS, CHE, MP
I“PARKER, MAURICE 0., ESQ, MISAC

‘WINt'IIISII-R. I. J., Iso, ECIS, I-‘ss
T Denotes (‘o-opted Member

 

OFFICE BEARERS APPOINTED BY THE COUNCIL

Hon Treasurer—LT-COL J. C. LOCKWOOD, JP, TD, MP
Deputy Hon Treasurer—HARRY WHITE, ESQ, ECA

Hon Medical Ofﬁcer—A. E. WHYTE, ESQ, MB, CHB
Bankers—MESSRS COUTTs AND co, STRAND, LONDON

(‘hief Secretary , -AR|’HUR w. MOSS. I-so, MBE, ACIS

Assistant Secretary l). x. I. (‘\\1M, TIA

Legal Secretary». J. IIAI I , Iso

(‘Itief Veterinary ()Il‘ieer MAJOR R. C. G. HANCOCK, BSC, MRCVS

Auditors—MESSRS VINEY, PRICE & GOODYEAR, CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS

Telegrams—‘CRUELTY LONDON.’

 

, SURE ifmililﬂ Xg

CAPTIVE BOLT PISTOL
FOR ALL ANIMALS

BIRMINGHAM - s

  

ICClES AND SNELVOKE lID ENGLAND

5465

Telephone—Whitehall 7177

 

FLAG DAYS

Branch ofﬁcials are reminded it is advisable to order
flag day equipment about four weeks before the
actual date of the collection. The number of such
efforts has increased to a very gratifying extent and it
will assist Headquarters in dealing with ﬂag day
requirements if. orders are plIced at an early date;
early dClchry of equipment to organizers will assist
in the distribution of tins, trays and emblems to
collectors and will allow time in which to order
additional equipment should the original order prove
inadequate to meet late otlers of potential collectors.

Headquarters will always do everything possible to
meet rush orders and equipment will be placed on
rail if necessary, but in such cases there can be no
guarantee that supplies will arrive in time in spite of
every endeavour made by Headquarters.

Early ordering and delivery of. flag day equipment
does much to assist in making successful collections.

 

 

 

THE COVER PICTURE

‘Kippy’ is owned by Mr and Mrs Peter Whale of 3 Mount
Nod Road, Streatham, SWI6, who took him into then care
when he was about l8 months old. Mr Whale, who is a ﬁlm
director, was in charge of the production of the RSPCA
film ‘CHANGE OF HEART’ and this association stimulated
his interest in animals to such an extent that when an 0“”!9'
was needed for ‘Kippy’ Mr Whale did not hesitate t0 8'“
him a home. Mr and Mrs Whale tell us that they have a most
lovable companion who is also completely devoted to them

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

38 THE ANIMAL WORLD

April 1953

 

 

 

RSPCA FLOOD ANIMAL RESCUE WORK

 

RSPCA inspectors, clinic workers and hon—

orary helpers rescued a total of 11,432 animals
and birds in the East Coast ﬂoods.
‘ Included in this large total are 1,354 cattle.
Many of these were suffering acutely and were
milked out by RSPCA workers promptly and
were thus relieved of suffering.

Other animals beneﬁting by this tremendous,

rescue work were:
1,090 sheep
217 horses
799 pigs
5 this year’s lambs
1,239 fowls
372 cats
529 dogs -
95 caged birds
244 pigeons
and 233 tame rabbits

 

MOST DlSTRESSlNG . . . .

Asked what was the most distressing feature of his
work lnspector jones said it was the sight of dogs
that had been drowned because they were chained
to their kennels and so could not climb above the

level of the flood water.*

* From a report in the Burton _‘Daily Mail’ of a talk
with lnspector L. lones, on returning to his station

a. ,fafter helping in rescue operations at Great Yarmouth

 

 

 

Marooned cattle on Foulness lsland being
driven to dry land by an RSPCA lnspector
and helper

 

The picture on this page and the one
opposite are reproduced by courtesy
of the ‘Daily Mirror’

 

 

 

From one area were rescued three ferrets, one
of whom was hanging on to the branch of a tree.
Five tortoises rescued were still in their winter
sleep.

First News

First news was received by the RSPCA chief
secretary at his home on Sunday, 1 February.
He received a call from Senior Inspector Pope in
the Southend area, who had been told by the local
police in the small hours of Sunday morning.

Before seven o’clock in the morning he was out
in response to this call in the Canvey area where
he found the need for help enormous.

Whilst the Senior Inspector was busy RSPCA
Headquarters had drafted into his area helpers
who within the next tux‘ntyuf0ur hours numbered:
One chief inspector, another senior inspector,
eight inspectors, ﬁve clinics stall and two special

Mud added to
the diﬂiculties
of rescue work.
Two RSPCA
Inspectors cling
to a memorial
for support as
they flounder in
the mud at
Foulness

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

40 THE ANIMAL WORLD April 1953

 

Two more ‘Daily Mirror’ pictures (reproduced with acknowledgments) from

 

—————_—.__

 

 

Foulness show the transport and distribution by the RSPCA of drinking water and food for marooned animals

PRESS PRAISE

The following are only a few of the ﬂattering
comments made by the Press on the work of the

RSPCA. ‘

Western Morning News (Plymouth):

At Great Yarmouth, where ﬁremen pumping
out the ﬂooded marshes behind the town and
men building up the barrier worked in a tempera—
ture below freezing, the RSPCA has been rescuing
pets marooned in upper rooms for over a week.

MEDICAL STUDENTS HELPED THE
ANIMALS

 

Under the guidance of the RSPCA, medical
students helped in animal rescue Work on
Canvey lsland. Chickens are brought to the l '
mobile rescue centre before being taken to

.quarters away from flooded areas '

r

[Photo by courtesy of John Charles, S. Benfleet

Essex County Standard (Colchester):

The RSPCA did a grand job in rescuing pets
at Jaywick.

Grimsby Evening Telegraph:

The evacuation of cattle from Sutton started
this morning. Milk cows and cows in calf which
have been shut up in ﬂooded byrcs stampeded
when rescue parties led them out.

RSPCA men from towns all over the Midlands

 

 

 

 

 




 

42 THE ANIMAL WORLD

April 1953

 

 

 

HELP FROM SCOTLAND

Practical help given by Scotland is
described in this brief report from

the Glasgow Herald:

The horse ambulance of the
Scottish Society for Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, manned by two
inspectors of the Society, covered
sixty square miles of East Anglia
during the ﬂoods and helped to
bring to safety more than 500 cattle,
12 horses, 75 pigs, 700 poultry,
12 rabbits, 51 dogs, 78 cats, more
than 100 budgerigars and canaries,
a tortoise, and two goldﬁsh.

The inspectors—Benjamin Dear,
ness and William Pryde, both of
Edinburgh—worked for fourteen

 

r ...................

 

[Photo by courtesy of Wrates of Skegness

On the left in this group are two Inspectors of the Scottish SPCA. In the back-

days With hardly a break, and at ground is the Scottish Society’s animal ambulance, which the inspectors brought
times were driving through three from Edinburgh. They worked with the ambulance in Mablethorpe and district

feet of water. They seldom wore dry clothes.
They said at a Press, conference in Edinburgh that
they had had no difﬁculty in rescuing the animals,
except for one ‘cow.

[Photo by courtesy of Wrates of Skegness

The Scottish SPCA ambulance, in use as a mobile animals’
reception centre

 

HELP FOR FLEDGELINGS
At this time of‘the year when the robbing of
birds’ nests is so prevalent, we have been re—
minded that many children do the birds another
disservice—often with the idea that they are being
kind~by picking up ﬂedgelings from the ground
and carrying them away.

Readers of Animal World may be able to advise
children to leave ﬂedgelings alone, because these
little birds—which have just left the nest in their
first attempt to use their wings~ still have to be
taught to ﬂy, and still need a continuance of the

constant feeding which only their parents can
Give.
D

A TOUCHING INCIDENT
InSpector Beagley reports that the Police telev
phoned him to say that a dog was standing guard
beside the body of his dead master and would
allow no one to approach; could the Inspector
help? He immediately hastened to the spot and,
with a few reassuring words, gained the confid—
ence of the griefrstricken animal, who permitted

his new friend to stroke him and lead him aan
from the tragic scene.

 

ANIMAL WAYS
The RSPCA magazine for children
Price Id. every month
'A year’s subscription costs 25. 6d. (Post paid)

Stories, drawings, puzzles, a prize competition in each issue,
photographs, cartoons.

A bright and entertaining magazine.

 

l1




 

44 Tue-ANIMAL WORLD April 1953

 

 

BRANCH
NEWS

*

R S P C A London Head-
quarters, showing a display
of pictures illustrating
RSPCA animal rescue work
during the East Coast floods

[Picture by courtesy of the
Daily Mirror

Balham and Tooting Cadets of the No. 1 (Balham and
District) Group RSPCA Cadet Division attended the
Odeon Cinema, Balham, on ﬁve evenings during the King
George VI Memorial Fund week, in order to take the col-
lection among the audience. The cadets Collected a total of
£118 183. 7d. for the fund and were warmly thanked by
the cinema manager, who expressed his sincere appre-
ciation to the commanding ofﬁcer and cadets, adding that
without tneir help the collection would have been difﬁcult
to make.

Birmingham and District A campaign against the gin trap
was revived at a public meeting of the branch. Initiating the
campaign was the Lord Mayor of Birmingham, Alderman
W. T. Bowen, president of the branch. Lord Merthyr, chair-
man of the RSPCA Council, and Lord Elton, both of whom
have worked in the House of Lords for reforms aimed at
banning the use of the gin trap, were present on the plat-
form. Lord Elton said that unless public opinion produced a
Government measure banishing the gin trap by the autumn
he would try to introduce another Private Members’ Bill
himself. Lord Merthyr said that he hoped other branches of
the RSPCA would also hold meetings to protest against this
‘disgraceful instrument’. Major C. W. Hume, director of
UFAW, said that what usually happened for instance in the
West Country and Wales, where rabbits had become such a
plague, was that the farmer sold trapping rights to a com-

 

Tessa, the handsome pet of Miss Abbott of Meadow Brow,

Grasmere, Westmorland, has collected large sums of money

at the annual Garden Fete which is held in Grasmere for the
. Westmorland branch of the RSPCA

 

mercial trapper. A collection amounting to £33 Os. 3d.
was taken.

Coventry Mrs Scaife. hon secretary of Atherstone and
Wilmcote auxiliary, reports that a proﬁt of £12 3.9. 10d. was
raised for branch funds by a whist drive. Mrs Scait‘e mentions
that members of the committee worked hard for this result
and gave prizes.

Exeter, East and West Devon The newly formed W oodbury
Primary School and Senior Children‘s Group of Animal
Defenders recently had their ﬁrst meeting at the school.
RSPCA ﬁlms were shown and Inspector Pickett spoke.

A whist drive organized at Fishermen‘s Cott, Bickleigh,
Devon, by Mrs Cochran, raised about £12 f or branch funds.
Herefordshire Mrs M. S. Brown, auxiliary hon secretary,
reports that Hereford City auxiliary obtained by a special
appeal 220 packages of food which was sent for the relief of
animals saved in the ﬂoods. This was apart from money
raised to help RSPCA’s special eﬂorts.

A prize scheme competition organized by the auxiliary at
the end of 1952 resulted in the sale of over 7,000 tickets.
Kent—Ashford and District Lady Ritchie, branch president,
presided at the branch annual meeting in Ashford High
School for Girls. Mr H. A. Crothall, branch hon secretary,
was present and the existing committee was re-elected en bloc.
Mr Allan Joiner from RSPCA Headquarters spoke on the
general work of the Society and mentioned particularly the
help given by Inspector Coles in the recent rescues of animals
from ﬂoods.

Kent—Isle of Thanet Speaking at the Broadstairs auxiliary
annual meeting at the Hotel Lancaster, Inspector Faulkner
sa1d_that complaints during the year totalled 155. Mrs D.
Peskin, retiring chairman, said that if people were aware of
the prlvacy attached to making complaints of cruelty they
would be more co-operative. In his report the hon treasurer,
Mr L. H. W. Symes, said that during the year £220 had been
sent .by the auxiliary to the branch, an increase of £5 on the
prev10us year. Reading the report of the hon secretary, who,
she ,explamed, was in Australia, Mrs Peskin said that Mrs
Crook had kindly taken over the duties in the hon secretary’s
absence. MISS D. W. . Lawrance, branch hon secretary,
attended the meeting.

Lancashire—East, and Blackburn In the regrettable absence
of Mrs T. S. M." Badgery, president of 'Colne auxiliary, the
aux111ary’s annual meeting was presided over by Mrs A.
Boyd, wee-president. Thanks were expressed to Mr Hartley,
Of Holt House Cottage, who had taken care of stray dogs. In
hlS address Inspector Cameron spoke of the work under-
taken by the Society during the ﬂoods. The fellowing
oﬂicers were elected: ‘ President, Mrs T. S. M; Badgery;

.4 :

 

 

 




 

 

46 THE ANIMAL WORLD

April 1953

 

 

Hungry Hen Ate Dead One

THE RSPCA NIGHT SERVICE AT
WORK

A horse

Perhaps one of the most extraordinary cases in
the history of the Night Service was that of the
horse whose leg had been trapped in a motor car.
It was at 4.20 on a Saturday afternoon that the
call came through from the London Fire Brigade,
appealing for aid in rescuing the animal. The
ambulance went out immediately and it was found
that the horse’s hind leg was caught over the
bumper of the car and under the mudguard.

Working on the instructions of a veterinary
surgeon, the Night Staff set about their task of
freeing the leg. Portions of the mudguard had to
be cut away but,,after an hour’s hard work, the
horse was released, badly frightened and with a
few ﬂesh wounds. '

The veterinary surgeon in attendance, having
ascertained that no bones were broken, gave ﬁrst
aid treatment and the horse was taken back to his
stable, to rest and recover from his strange
adventure. . .

 

Found in a ﬁlthy run by Senior Inspector Goodenough was
the emaciated carcase of a crossbred Rhode Island hen. The
dead bird had many wounds caused by the efforts of a live
hen and duck to eat it. A second dead bird, decomposing,
was being pecked by the live hen and duck; the RSPCA
lnspector saw the live hen pull out the entrails of the second
one and run round the enclosure trying to swallow them.

A live hen was debilitated and weak, a duck so weak that
it continually fell over when urged to move at more than a
walking pace. Both birds ate ravenously when offered dry
bread by the lnspector.

When these two birds had been humanely destroyed, a
veterinary surgeon, after a post-mortem examination,
found a complete absence of body fat.

When the woman who owned the birds was brought by
the RSPCA before the Magistrates at Bromley on a charge
of omitting to provide them with sufficient nourishing food
and care and attention, she was fined £20 and had to pay

£8 8s. costs (A638l)

. . . and cats

During a recent month, the propensity of cats
to get themselves into precarious positions was
more than usually noticeable. One venturesome
puss was rescued from the air vent of a church;
another found herself roofabound after a night
out and sat among the chimneyvpots, plaintively
mewing, until an intrepid member of the Night
Staff climbed to her rescue, scaling two walls and
crossing several roofs to reach her.

Yet another cat became marooned in an area
and the RSPCA man had to lower himself down
a 30 ft. rope before the truant could be hauled
to safety.

Determined not to be outdone by older cats in
deeds of daring, a rather ﬂighty kitten managed to
get his head wedged in a vent underneath a bridge,
but he was released by the Night Staff after some
manipulation, and returned, somewhat cresta
fallen, to his delighted owner.

. . . and others

Other animals dealt with in the course of the

same month included 26 dogs, a golden hamster,
and seven birds. ' ,

 

 

 




 

48 THE ANIMAL WORLD

 

 

HOUSE—TO—HOUSE COLLECTIONS

(We give, wherever possible, the place at which the house—to—
house collection was made and the name of the organizer or
organizers. )

Oldham and District branch, Mrs D. N. Bethel, branch
hon sec, £44 163. 6d.; Leeds, hirs Carter, £1 95. 3d.; Glouces-
ter City and District and Forest of Dean branch, Mrs Nash,
branch hon sec, £124 155. 10d.; Kent—Tunbridge Wells
and District branch, LtvCol Pardington, branch hon sec,
£147 75. 6d.; Newark, Mrs Alfred, aux hon sec, £2 45. 6fd.;
Bournemouth and District branch, Mrs Crooks, hon
treasurer, £238 135. 1d.; Shropshire branch, £194 33. 11d.;
Burnham, Mrs Morgan, aux hon sec, £31 175. 10d.; Ger—
rards Cross, Mrs Carter—Ruck, aux hon sec, £31 35. 7d.;
Vale of Mowbray branch, Mr J. Tweedie, branch hon
treasurer, £34 95. 10d.; Kilsby, Miss S. Balding, £2 105.;
Cemaes Bay, Miss Cole, aux hon sec, £23 25.

 

RSPCA ACHIEVEMENTS
* An Effective Protest '

A complaint having been received, to the effect
that posters and pictures of bullfighting were
being displayed in one of the windows of a
London store, an RSPCA Inspector Visited the
store and interviewed the Publicity Manager, to
Whom he explained the Society’s Views on this
matter. As a result of his representations the
offending posters were withdrawn.

* Cruelty Prevented

Inspector Coles of Stockport has been able to
persuade the authorities at Combs, Derbyshire,
to abandon the greasy pig competition which they
had planned to hold as part of their Coronation
festivities programme.

* Pulborough Cattle Market

Long needed improvements have at last been
carried out at this market, and Chief Inspector
White reports that all calves and pigs are now
housed comfortably in covered pens.

 

RSPCA FILM NEWS

The Society’s ﬁlms were sent to the following places for
showing recently:

Maidstone, Harlesden, Canning Town, Annesley Park
Bradford, Wisbech, Hunstanton, Iver Heath, Woodbury,
Craven Arms, Seaford, Kirkby—invFurness, Rugby, Glany.
nant, Lowestoft, Middlesbrough, Kineton, Aldershot, Elma
bridge, Epsom, Weston—super—Mare, Winscombe, Cam-
bridge, Erith, Grasmere, Winton, Sutton—in—Ashfield,
Thornton Heath, Gateshead‘oanyne, Dunmow, Rother-
wick, Oxford, Forest Gate, Nottingham, Saxmundham,
Ladderedge, Awbridge, Lydney, Blackpool, Exeter, New—
port, Newark, Shepherds Bush, Cosham, Sonning Com—
mon, Penwortham, Hanley Castle, East Ham, Nelson,
Ambleside, Malvern, Wickford.

AFVlCTlM OF THE FOG

A recent heavy fog caused birds as well as human beings to

lose direction, and lnspector Eric Coles (of Stockport)
spent a busy day rescuing members of the feathered world.
He is seen holding a female lapwing which he picked up in
St Petersgate. He later collected the bird’s mate, which was
found by a GPO worker at the head post office. Other birds
collected by the lnspector were four seagulls—two at
Oﬂ'erton and two in Newbridge Lane. All the birds were
uninjured and, when the weather cleared, they were re-

leased

Photo bchourtesy of the Stockport Advertiser]

OBITUARY

With sincere regrets we report the following
deaths:

The Rev Prebendary W. N. Manning, chair,
man, Wilts—Salisbury Branch; Mrs C. Brannam,
chairman, Devon—~North Branch; Mrs Stevens,
Penn Street Auxiliary hon secretary; Mrs
CourtneyaLord, president, Bromsgrove Auxilia
ary; Sir Ralph Oakden, former chairman, Surrey
——Guildford branch; Mr C. W. Baker, hon
secretary, Newball Auxiliary; Mr B. J. Ridge,
hon secretary, Newlyn Auxiliary; Mrs A.
Cockerton, former hon secretary, Plymouth
Branch; and the following supporters: Mrs
E. D. F. Brown, Mr W. Boyd'Alexander, Mrs M.
Howard Stepney, Mr John Walton.

 

Sir Robert Gower, President of the RSPCA,

is the subject of a special obituary notice on the
editorial page. I

April 1953 ‘

 

 

 




 

 

 

LONDON JOINT ANIMAL FLAG DAY

As already announced, the London Joint Animal Flag Day will be held on April I4 next, with
the usual house to house collection from April 7 to I4 inclusive. These dates are somewhat earlier
than usual but it means that the collection will take place before a number ofthe usual ﬂag days in May.

 

 

FLAG DAY DEPOT (Picture from Llanelly)

AN ANIMAL
HELPS

‘Cobber’
lends a

hand.
(Picture from
Mrs
Blakeston,
Drifﬁeld
Auxiliary
Hon Sec)

 

 

 

 

R$§.P.C°A.

 

 

 

 

 

 

FORM OF BEQUEST FOR NATIONAL WORK

To those benevolent individuals who may wish to become benefactors byWill to this
Society, the following form is respectfully suggestedz~

‘l bequeath to the ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS, founded
1824, for the general purposes of that Society, the sum of £ ............................................ , free
of death duty and the receipt of the Treasurer for the time being of the said Society shall
be sufﬁcient discharge for such legacy.’ (If it should be desired that the legacy should be ex;
pended on some particular phase of the Society’s work, a direction to this effect may be added to the

form of bequest.)

 

NOTE
By the Act of William IV and I Victoria, cap. 26, all Wills or Codicils must be in Writing signed by the

Testator, and attested by two witnesses in the presence of the Testator and of each other.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Printed by Shenval Press, Simson Shand Ltd, of Parliament Square, Hertford, and
published by Arthur W. Moss for the RSPCA at 105 Jermyn Street, London, SW1

 




