W) ,9”

Don’t Buy This Bird!
By Nancy Anne Payton

 

.4 , _ )3
~ . _ x i %I ~
' . s" .

Parrots are in vogue as the animal status sym-

- bol. You see them promoted anywhere and everywhere
—on mugs, T-shirts, jewelry, advertisements, television
shows, amusement parks, discos, and, of course, in pet
shops. Parrots, in art or in the flesh, are big business.
Approximately half the live birds imported into the
United States are psittacines. The pet industry now con-
siders parrots staples, along with traditional animals
such as puppies, hamsters, mice, and fish. Parrot Jungle
is a growing pet—shop chain specializing in birds.

While a parrot on a shoulder represents status
to many, to those in the humane community the sight
represents potential extinction. The commercial trade in
parrots is devastating wild populations. A11 parrots sold
in the pet trade are collected from the wild: In addition
chincreased commercial pressures, the slow-breeding
parrots also suffer from loss of habitat due to lumbering
and agricultural expansion. Even some collection meth-
ods compound the loss of suitable habitat. Large trees
that parrots seek for nesting sites are felled to capture
young birds, most marketable because they train quickly
and adapt readily to human handling. Gone now is a
future nesting site and quite possibly nestlings that were
killed in the crash. The adult parrots may search several
years for another suitable nesting location. Another
capture technique involves the spreading of a sticky sub-
stance that holds not only parrots, but any attracted
wildlife. Periodically, the trapped parrots are collected
for the pet trade, while the other unfortunate animals
are left to die.

Capture is only the beginning of the parrot’s
long and inhumane trip to the consumer. It is commonly
estimated that for every bird that arrives at the pet shop,

 

Jill oriceiMSPCA

 

Humane Forum

five others will have died in the process. Overcrowding,
improper food, lack of water, stress, and exposure are
factors in the saga of the parrot’s path to market and
extinction.

A hopeful sign, if not too late, is the recent
addition of almost all psittacines to the international
treaty (CITES) that regulates trade in these fragile crea-
tures. The vote to protect these parrots was thirty-two in
favor and four opposed. Unfortunately, the United
States, one of the largest consumers of parrots, was
among the four favoring weaker regulations. Self-
appointed “parrot lovers,” working through the Ameri-
can Federation of Aviculturists and aided by the Pet
Industry Joint Advisory Council (anxious to protect the
multimillion—dollar wild-bird business), were respon-
sible for this international embarrassment. This cadre
almost succeeded in persuading the United States to
exempt itself from the stronger trade regulations (see
“Dateline” this issue).

Parrots are also threatened by illegal traffick-
ing. Parrot pushing is as profitable as smuggling cocaine
or diamonds. Ingenious smuggling methods include
false-bottomed crates, hollow spare tires, and hollowed
fruit. Parrots have even been discovered taped to smug-
glers’ bodies. No one knows how many parrots are ille-
gally imported into the United States, though some
experts estimate that the number far exceeds current
legal import statistics.

Another common illegal procedure is the laun-
dering of parrots through other countries. TRAFFIC (a
division of the World Wildlife Fund-US.) reviewed
shipping documents and revealed that “the US. im-
ported parrots from Bolivia and Paraguay that are
found only in Brazil . . . Brazil, however, bans the com-
mercial export of all wildlife.”

In light of greed and continuing consumer de-
mand, the CITES treaty, wildlife protection acts of vari-
ous countries, and even US. state and federal laws may
be documents of delusion in the effort to protect wild
birds. If you wish to know more about the commercial
caged-bird trade, we urge you to read The Bird Business
by Greta Nilsson, available from the Animal Welfare
Institute, PO. Box 3650, Washington, DC. 20007. It is
five dollars prepaid and well worth the nominal fee.

Even if parrots were bred in captivity, even if
the taking of parrots from the wild were ecologically
sound, wild birds don’t belong on people’s shoulders or
as decorator items in chic living rooms. As Socrates
said, “There are trades in which it is impossible for a
man to be virtuous.’ ’

Nancy Anne Payton is humane issues analyst for the
Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Animals 3 5

 




I I (continued from page 19)

Stephen W. Kress F

Rites of spring include courtship for puffins at an island nesting site.
Once plentiful along the Maine coast, puffin populations have been
drastically reduced by hunting and remain threatened by habitat loss
and oil contamination.

protection from hunting, the puffin populations on
Machias Sea] Island and Matinicus Rock have increased
to approximately 750 and 75 pairs respectively since
1900. The growth of these colonies suggests that feeding
and breeding habitats remain suitable in the Gulf of
Maine. However, no new colonies in Maine are known.

The Puffin Reestablishment Project, a research
project of the National Audubon Society, began in 1973
with a study designed to determine the feasibility of
moving ten-day-old puffin chicks from Newfoundland
to Maine. Prior to this study, little was known about the
techniques of transporting or rearing Atlantic puf fins.

The feasibility study demonstrated that puf fin
chicks could survive the 1,000-mi1e trip from large New-
foundland colonies to the Maine coast and that the
chicks could be reared with a minimum of human dis-
turbance in man-made burrows.

In 1974, in cooperation with the Canadian
Wildlife Service, the National Audubon Society began a
program to transplant nestling puffins from a large
Newfoundland colony to a former puf fin breeding site
at Eastern Egg Rock in Muscongus Bay, Maine. Now in
its ninth year, the program has resulted in the release of
630 young puffins—96 percent of those transplanted to
the island. The chicks were reared in man-made sod
burrows and fed twice daily on a diet of frozen smelt
with vitamin supplements. The young puffins were
marked with colored leg bands and permitted to fledge
from their new home with the hope that they would
eventually return to breed at the release site rather than
at their original home in Newfoundland.

In 1977, puffins from the 1975 age group re-
turned to the island and landed among wooden decoys
positioned to attract the birds. By 1980 there were more
than fifty times as many puffin sightings at Eastern
Egg Rock as in 1977, with a significant increase in the
amount of time the birds spent on the island. In 1980,
members of four different age groups (1975, 1976, 1977,

36 Animals

and 1978) were observed, with as many as twenty-three
transplanted birds in sight at the same time.

As puffins do not normally breed until they are
five years old, the first breeding of puffins at Eastern
Egg Rock is still at least one more year away. As the
population of transplanted birds increases each year
with the addition of recruits from subsequent trans-
plants, the chances of establishing a viable breeding
population improve.

If the project at Eastern Egg Rock is successful,
it will have valuable implications for management of
puf fins throughout their extensive North Atlantic range.
If a colony can be reestablished at the edge of the puf-
fin’s range, it should be possible to reestablish puffin
colonies in vacant habitat elsewhere in the North At-
lantic. However, this would be appropriate only if the
causes for the original declines were abated and the
environment once again made suitable. Techniques used
for Atlantic puffins could also be useful in developing
management plans for other seabirds with similar life
histories.

The establishment of procedures for restoring
seabird breeding populations is important considering
the extensive disturbance and reduction of range caused
by human activities. Though puffins are legally pro—
tected from hunting pressure in North America and
most colonies have sanctuary status, they face new
threats from expanded gull populations, overfishing of
their foods, gill nets, and oil and chemical contamina-
tion at sea. These factors may explain why the species
has continued to decline in much of its present range.

In the Gulf of Maine the two remaining popula-
tions are densely concentrated on their respective islands
during the breeding season and are thus vulnerable to oil
spills. Current plans for a major supertanker port and
oil refinery at Eastport, Maine, pose a real threat to the
future of the Maine colonies.

Additional breeding sites in the Gulf of Maine
will strengthen the puffin’s status at the southern limit
of its North American range and offer some assurance
that, in the event of a disaster at one of the remaining
colonies, this appealing bird would not disappear alto-
gether from the Maine coast.

Although manipulative techniques such as the
Puffin Reestablishment Project offer hope for boosting
local populations and reestablishing colonies in vacant
range, only long—term solutions to the more profound
causes of decline will ensure that the North Atlantic re-
mains sufficiently clean and productive for seabirds
such as the puffin.

Ornithologist Dr. Stephen W. Kress planned and directed
the Pufﬁn Reestablishment Project; Kathleen Blanchard-French is an
associate in Dr. Kress ’5 writing projects.

 




 

October 1981

ORION NATURE BCOK REVIEW

 

- w-'. 4, ‘ ~. h. ; ...-....'.,. ..'.-.--v. '- ~~ ‘1: -.vv~-€. .' ‘-.~. ‘ ..
” -,‘1IEWW}MWWM&‘.E-‘Ebefé‘éi.w¢z15ﬁ> ~.:~-,sr=:s.ré;.a~.~ ﬂamers-teas.stsmmmaﬁvﬁeér‘ 7‘ =‘“

~M~w wimwsﬁmvswmﬁﬁsiﬂ»ewe-’13 ..~*-.:‘::~:s:-:%asi ii’i‘ﬁ‘vﬁ‘ .74: ~=?*-v‘iihrr‘ii’=;t"ﬁ‘i‘“m

Books +

in Brief

 

 

The Bird Business:

A Study of the
Commercial Cage Bird
Trade, 2nd edition

Greta Nilsson, Animal Welfare Insti-
tute, 1981. Photographs, maps, charts.
Appendix. 12] pages. Paper, $5.00. Bk.
Service #9187.

parrot on its perch or an exotic

songbird in its cage is a valued
conversation piece or status symbol.
Few persons know the long and
torturous trail by which exotic birds
get from their native habitats to
perch or cage. Those people who
trade in exotic birds often do so in
ways that inflict suffering and death.
And, as Konrad Lorenz has noted,
" ’Nobody pities these pathetic crea-
tures in their bell-shaped cages of
martyrdom.’" This well~researched,
fully documented and illustrated
account tells what is happening in
the cage bird industry and why.

 

The Bird Business

A Shady of the
Commercial Case Bled Ind:

“mm .

Cage birds have become a multi-
million, possibly even a billion dollar

business. Except for the canary and ,

budgerigar, most exotic birds sought
by dealers are captured in the wild
and shipped all over the world. The
numbers, it is estimated, are a mini-
mum of seven and one-half million

I- ,_ .

birds annually. The fact that a species
has become rare is no protection for
its members. Instead, rarity makes a
bird more desirable, and, some cus-
tomers will pay fantastic prices for
it. Certain Amazon parrots from the
Caribbean, for instance, are now so
scarce that collectors will pay
$10,000 or more for one specimen.

. The Bird Business traces, on the one
hand, the legal transport of birds—

- from their capture in native lands
through way stations, export cities
and quarantine stations to pet
stores. It also tells about birds that
are smuggled into countries like the
United States and Japan to avoid
inspection and quarantine for disease
or conservation restrictions. And
herein lies tragedy. Birds are con-
cealed in spare tire walls, wrapped in
newspapers, and hidden in ice
chests. Eighty percent or more of
those birds transported in this way
die from suffocation or heat pros-
tration. Losses simply lead to higher ‘

‘ prices for the birds that survive.

The Animal Welfare Act at pres-
ent ”does not include cage birds in
its regulations,” and the Lacey Act,
which covers birds arriving at
American ports of entry, is vague
and ineffective. "Overcrowding, in-
adequate shipping containers, lack
of food or water, or other inhumane
conditions” are commonplace.

The Bird Business, which first ap-
peared in 1977, is intended to lead to
action. New laws must be enacted,
present laws enforced, and above
all, the public must be educated so
that it will no longer support the
infamous trade through buying
exotic birds or wishing to see them
on display far from their forest
homes.

This new version of Greta Nils-
son’s book is amply illustrated with
photographs in black and white and
in color. There are pictures of exotic
birds as they live .in the wild and as
captives—in all manner of con-
:ainers and conditions.

' Hope Sawyer Buyukmihci

 

 

 




 

October 1981

..:;W— .-'. ‘
"..‘. .9" '

ATURE, BOOK 'REV’IEw‘

ﬂN N
1:

 

 

Books
in Brief

 

 

The “Bird'Business: ‘
A Study of the
Commercial Cage Bird
Trade, 2nd edition

Greta Nilsson, Animal Welfare Insti-
tute, 1981. Photographs, maps, charts.
Appendix. 12] pages. Paper, $5.00. Bk.
Service #9187.

parrot on its perch or an exotic
songbird in its cage is a valued

. conversation piece or status symbol.

Few persons know the long and
torturous trail by which exotic birds
get from their native habitats to
perch or cage. Those people who
trade in exotic birds often do so in
ways that inflict suffering and death.
And, as Konrad Lorenz has noted,
”’Nobody pities these pathetic crea-
tures in their bell- shaped cages of
martyrdom. ”’ This well- researched,
fully documented, and illustrated
account tells what is happening in

the cagepbird industry and why. ’

 

The Bird Business

A Study of the
Commercial Cage Bird Trade

R! fact I’m
~«rit tho F0 mwmdbv’v. Dillon Rule;

Cage birds have become a mult1—, if:
p m1ll1on possibly even a billion dollar-flit.
business. Except for the canary and. 5;
budgeriga;r most exotic birds sought , I;
by dealers are captured in the Wild.
and shipped all over the world; The "35'
.. ' ' ers, it is estunated area mink -

r f even-$1M Qﬂ'é‘harf ﬁﬂhon _

birds annually. The fact that a species 71

" has become rare is no protection for

its members. Instead, rarity makes a
bird more desirable, and some cus-' ;
tomers will pay fantastic prices for ‘
it. Certain Amazon parrots from the
Caribbean, for instance, are now so

' scarce that collectors will, pay

$10,000 or more for one specimen.
. The Bird Business traces, on the one

hand, the legal transport of birds——
. from their capture in native lands

through way stations, export cities '
and quarantine stations to. pet

1 stores. It also tells about birds that

are smuggled into countries like the .
United States and Japan to avoid ‘~
inspection and quarantine for disease ‘
or conservation restrictions. A'nd.
herein lies tragedy. Birds are con-
cealed in spare tire walls, wrapped in f
newspapers, and hidden in ice
chests. Eighty percent or more of
those birds transported 1n this way, .
die from suffocation or heat prog‘l

' tration. Losses simply lead to hlgher‘al‘
‘ prices for the birds that survive. ‘

The Animal Welfare Act at pres-
ent ”does not include cag'e birds in
its regulations,” and theLacey Act,
which Covers birds arriving at
American ports of entry, is vague
and ineffective. ”Overcrowding, in- ‘
adequate shipping containef's’; lack
of food or water, or other inhumane
conditions” are commonplace.

The Bird Business, which first ap-
peared in 1977, is intended to lead to
action. New laws must be enacted,
present laws enforced, and above
all, the public must be educated so
that it will no longer support the
infamous trade through buying

‘ X exotic birds or wishing to see them
‘ on display far from their forest

‘ )‘El‘lls new version of Greta Blils-

yboOk IS amply illustrated with

I , .. color There are picturegpf exotic"

. x :as they live \in the"Wild and as;

all manner of core]
1:“, . 2.- ; f

7‘; andxdrt:

 

 

 

 




 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

 

PO. Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007

 

NATIONS VOTE PARROT PROTECTION For Release: March 15, 1981
Contact: John Gleiber
(202) 337—2332

Attention: Editors, Reporters and Writers

 

Representatives from 38 countries meeting in New Delhi, India
voted last week to list all parrots on the Convention on Interna-
tional Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES)
over-ruling negative votes from the U.S., Chile, Switzerland and
Liechtenstein. Wild-caught cockatoos, macaws, conures and other
members of the parrot family have been mercilessly exploited by
the pet trade.

One million free-living birds representing at least 150 dif-
ferent parrot species are traded world-wide annually. The U.S.A.
imports some 300,000 of these, and many thousands die in transport
and quarantine. Every bird exporting nation must now issue permits
to certify that the capture and sale in international commerce of
any native parrot will not be detrimental to the survival of its
species.

The Bird Business has just been published and is filled with

 

up—to-date, pertinent facts and figures. For the most important
publication available on this important topic read what David
Salisbury, in "The Christian Science Monitor," calls "... a most
restrained but devastating picture of the impact that the current
world trade in birds is having? (on reverse of this page). For
reprint information please contact: Brian Flynn, Register and

Tribune Syndicate. Box 4994, Des Moines, Iowa 50306.

The Bird Business: §_Study 2§_the Commercial Cage Bird Trade,
by Greta Nilsson, Washington, D.C.. 121 pages, 42 photographs,
second edition, revised 1981, $5.00 prepaid. Single free copies
are available from the Animal Welfare Institute for writers, law
enforcement agencies and libraries.

 




 

 

 

y , r . CHRlSTlAN SClENCE MONITOR

By Barth J Falkenberg. stat? 1)h(‘)itxirfuilzri‘r

Birds like this cockatoo are paying the price for the exotic taste of bird tanciers around the world

Agriculture could be hurt

 

Exotic birds: report cites dangers of imports

By David F. Salisbury
Staff correspondent of The Christian Science Monitor
Denver

It seems so harmless.

You drive down to your local pet shop and look over all
the brightly colored tropical birds. You buy one of these
exotic creatures. possibly for companionship or to impress
your friends

Yet each such decision is the tip of an iceberg ~ the end
point of a process that is decimating many bird popula‘
tions ID South America, Africa, and Asia. In addition, this
trade threatens the survival of a number of domestic spe-
cies of birds and could adversely affect agriculture in a
number of developed nations.

These damaging side effects of the international exotic
bird trade are spelled out in word and picture by “The Bird
Business," a study conducted by Greta Nilson for the
Animal Welfare Institute in.Washington, D.C.

Drawing heavily on official statistics and sources and
quoting the concerns of well-known ornithologists. this
study draws a restrained but devastating picture of the
impat t that the current world trade in birds is having.

“W ithin the past 20 years . . . bird dealers have created
a new demand for an ever-increasing variety of birds. . . .
To satisfy this new market . . . world trade in wild birds
has re cently amounted to a minimum of 7.5 million birds
annua ily," the study reports.

Th . demand for some species has become so great that
a nunber are becoming rare in their native lands. The
scarleu macaw in Central America and the mynah in
Thaile nd are examples of species currently suffering the
effect of overhunting.

'I'hc demand for rare birds is multiplied by the fact that
for ev« ~ry bird that makes it to a pet shop cage. at least five
others die in traps or shipping cages. Miss Nilson

Deipite regulations in countries such as the United
States and Britain and some recent iniprovement. ship-
ping c« mditions remain inhumane. Large numbers of birds
are injured or killed by overcrowding. lack of food and
water, suffocation. and overheating, the study charges.

Furthermore, many of the birds are unsuited to life in
cages and require specialized diets. As a result. many die
after only a short time in captivity.

A number of countries have recognized this problem

and curtailed or banned exports of their rare and endan-
gered birds. In South and Central America, Colombia,
Bolivia, andCostaRicahavestoppedallexpor-ts. InAsia.

India, Japan, Sri Lanka. Taiwan, and Indonesia haw t‘m
tailed exports. However, a number of other countries have
stepped up their exports.

Not only does this international trade threaten bl! d spe
cies in their homelands, but it also poses a serious thr eat to
domestic species in America and other importing mun

' tries, the study points out.

To date, some 25 exotic species have become t-sizilr
lished in the continental US. The oldest. of these are the
house sparrow and the European starling -» which were
intentionally introduced in the 19th century by homesick
Europeans who missed familiar species. Both have had a
negative impact on US agriculture and native US hii d pop
ulations. Starlings. for example, drive woodpeckers and
Eastern bluebirds out of their nests and have been a maim
factor in those birds‘ decline.

Similarly. a number of the tropical birds imported to
the US are serious agricultural pests in their homeland,
the study claims. An example is the monk parakeet 'l‘hme
birds spread throughout the Midwest in the late 196m
Because of the monk parakeet's voraciousness, 13
Northeastern states cooperated in an apparently success
ful parakeet eradication program in 1973.

However, the rosewinged parakeet, a major agi ic-nl
tural pest in India, has established breeding populations in
Florida. Their relatives, the canary-winged parakeets. are
thriving in San Francisco, where they could become a ma
jor vineyard pest if they spread into nearby Napa Valley.
the study warns.

In 1975, the California Department of Agriculture esti
mated that three imported species could cause as much as
$1.2 million annual damage to the state‘s fruit, nut, and
grain crops. '

Many of these birds also carry diseases, some of which
threaten the domestic poultry industry. This problem has
been recognized since the turn of the century, when
Congress passed “injurious wildlife regulations." But only
five bird species are banned under these regulations and,
according to the Animal Welfare Institute study; several of
these have been imported despite this prohibition.

In 1973. the Fish and Wildlife Service proposed far
reaching regulations that would ban import of all but five
species of exotic birds. This plan was attacked by pet in
dustry forces, and the regulations were withdrawn. Four
years later the Wildlife Service tried again. They sug-
gested adding four species to the regulations. Again they
were withdrawn after strenuous opposition.

Tuesday, March 10, 1981

 

Reprinted by permission from The Christian Science Monitor

@ 1981 The Christian Science Publishing Society

All rights reserved

 




THE CHRISTIAN SClENCE MONITOR

MIdSUmmer strike

by postal unions?

Wages averaging $19,000
are key issue; workers _
also fret about job security

. ' By Ed Townsend
Labor correspondent of The Christian Science Monitor

Difficult labor negotiations are just ahead for the US
Postal Service and unions representing 570,000 workers.

Although it is illegal to strike against the Postal Service, a
branch of the federal government, there are rumblings of
walkouts around the country this summer if new contracts
are not signed by a July 20 deadline. I

Negotiations will get under way in April, but lines are
already being drawn taut.

Postmaster General William F. Bolger called on unions
“to pursue a policy of moderation in this year’s collective

bargaining.” He noted in a Washington National Press Club ‘

speech recently that postal workers averaged $19,000 a year
1n wages — $22,000 if fringe benefits are added in — and that
“1t 18 no secret that some people consider postal employees
overcompensated. ’ ’

His principal adversary in bargaining, Moe Biller, presi-
dent of the 250,000-member American Postal Workers Union,
said the unions bargaining with the Postal Service not only
want Improved wages, including an unlimited cost-oHiving
adjustment plan, but also must be assured in new contracts
that postal workers will be treated with “dignity and
respect” on the job.

Meanwhile, a threatened split in union ranks could. add to
bargaining problems. Mail handlers, in one branch of the
Laborers Union, are unhappy about the strike threats and
militant stances of the Postal Workers and Letter Carriers
and could break away from the solid front usually put to-
gether by unions in postal bargaining. If there is a division,
negotiating a contract that will satisfy everyone will be
difficult.

Again this year, bargaining will be shadowed by public
and government dissatisfaction with the operation of the
Postal Service. Its efficiency in delivering the mail is under
increasing criticism. Its costs have so escalated that first—
class stamps may soon go up from 15 cents to 18 cents and
Saturday service may be ended.

Mr. Bolger, m a wmimnds, says union
ofﬂtfals appear “unaware of the financial condition of the

Postal Service” and of the harsh realities of the national
economy.

The aggressive Mr. Biller, Who last year challenged in-
cumbent Emmet Andrews for the presidency of the Postal

 

‘l’m not in office to bargain with a chip -
on my shoulder, but I don’t like the
antiunion tactics of the present postal
administration.’

—— Moe Bil/er, postal union president

 

Workers and won overwhelmingly with a pledge of tougher
bargaining, accuses the Postal Service of harassing of work-
ers by supervisors, inadequate concern for the safety of em-
ployees in automatedoperations, productivity changes de-
signed to reduce labor costs by eliminating workers, and
‘ ‘inadequate’ ’ compensation.

He says: “I'm not in office to bargain with a chip on my
shoulder, but I don‘t like the antiunion tactics of the present
postal administration, and I don’t want a repeat of the 1978
contract disaster. '

Three years ago the previous union administration settled
on contract terms that many postal workers had repudiated
as unsatisfactory. Some struck illegally in New Jersey and
California and were dismissed. Biller wants them reinstated.

He recently warned that if labor’s demands are not met,
workers will use their “weapon of last resort” -— strike ac-
tion. In retort, the postmaster general says, “This nation
cannot tolerate a postal work stoppage.” If one is scheduled,
he adds, he will use all legal means possible to prevent it.

The Postal Service is proposing further automation of
mail sorting and other operations. Bolger has forecast sav-
ings by 1986 of $500 million a year as a result of automation
and has said that he hopes to reduce the postal work force by
60.000 employees before 1990. but through attrition rather
than layoffs.

Biller has attacked the planned expansion of automatlon.
including a nine-digit ZIP code. as "phony boondoggleS.” and
he is suggesting to members of the union that they not coop-
crate with such changes until there are firm assurances that

no jobs will be eliminated.

 

Tuesday, March 10, 1981

By Barth J. Falkenberg, staff photographer

Birds like this cockatoo are paying the price for the exotic taste of bird tanciers around the world

Agriculture could be hurt

 

Exotic birds: report cites dangers of imports

By David F. Salisbury

Staff correspondent of The Christian Science Monitor
Denver

It seems so harmless.

You drive down to your local pet shop and look over all
the brightly colored tropical birds. You buy one of these
exotic creatures, possibly for companionship or to impress
your friends.

Yet each such decision is the tip of an iceberg — the end
point of a process that is decimating many bird popula-
tions in South America, Africa, and Asia. In addition, this
trade threatens the survival of a number of domestic spe-
cies of birds and could adversely affect agriculture in a
number of developed nations.

These damaging side effects of the international exotic
bird trade are spelled out in word and picture by “The Bird
Business,” a study conducted by Greta Nilson for the
Animal WelfareﬁInstitute in Washington, DC.

Drawing heavily on official statistics and sources and
Quoting the concerns of well-known ornithologists, this
study draws a restrained but devastating picture of the
impact that the current world trade in birds is having.

“Within the past 20 years . . . bird dealers have created
a new demand for an ever-increasing variety of birds. . . .
To satisfy this new market . . . world trade in wild birds
has recently amounted to a minimum of 7.5 million birds
annually,” the study reports. .

The demand for some species has become so great that
a number are becoming rare in their native lands. The
scarlet macaw in Central America and the mynah in
Thailand are examples of species currently suffering the
effects of overhunting. -

The demand for rare birds is multiplied by the fact that
for every bird that makes it to a pet shop cage, at least five
others die in traps or shipping cages, Miss Nilson
estimates.

Despite regulations in countries such as the United
States and Britain and some recent improvement, ship-
ping conditions remain inhumane. Large numbers of birds
are injured or killed by overcrowding, lack of fdod and
water, suffocation, and overheating, the study charges.

Furthermore, many of the birds are unsuited to life in
cages and require specialized diets. As a result, many die
after only a short time in captivity.

A number of countries have recognized this problem
and curtailed or banned exports of their rare and endan-
gered birds. In South and Central America, Colombia,
Bolivia, and Costa Rica have stopped all exports. In Asia,

mum. Japan. 51') Lenka. Trauma. and Indonesia have cur-
tailed exports. However. a number 0! other countries have

stepped up their exports.
Not only does this international trade threaten bird spe-
cies in their homelands, but it also poses a serious threat to
domestic species in America and other importing coun-
tries, the study points out.

To date, some 25 exotic species have become estab-
lished in the continental US. The oldest of these are the
house sparrow and the European starling -— which were
intentionally introduced in the 19th century by homesick
Europeans who" missed familiar species. Both have had a
negative impact on US agriculture and native US bird pOp- _
ulations. Starlings, for example, drive woodpeckers and
Eastern bluebirds out of their nests and have been a major
factor in those birds’ decline.

Similarly, a number of the tropical birds imported to
the US are serious agricultural pests in their homeland,
the study claims. An example is the monk parakeet. These
birds spread throughout the Midwest in the late 19605.
Because of the monk parakeet’s voraciousness, ‘13
Northeastern states cooperated in an apparently success-
ful parakeet eradication program in 1973.

However, the rose-winged parakeet, a major agricul-
tural pest in India, has established breeding populations in
Florida. Their relatives, the canary-winged parakeets, are
thriving in San Francisco, where they could become a ma-
jor vineyard pest if they spread into nearby Napa Valley,
the study warns. .

In 1975, the California Department of Agriculture esti-
mated that three imported species could cause as much as
$1.2 million annual damage to the state’s fruit, nut, and
grain crops.

Many of these birds also carry diseases, some of which
threaten the domestic poultry industry. This problem has
been recognized since the turn of the century, when
Congress passed “injurious wildlife regulations.” But only
five bird species are banned under these regulations and,
according to the Animal Welfare Institute study, several of.
these have been imported despite this prohibition.

In 1973, the Fish and Wildlife Service proposed far-
reaching regulations that would ban import of all but five
species of exotic birds. This plan was attacked by pet in-
dustry forces, and the regulations were withdrawn. Four
years later the Wildlife Service tried again. They sug-
gested adding four species to the regulations. Again they
were withdrawn after strenuous opposition.

 

 

' “a...“ N 23‘ \ .«-‘ \N. ‘ .._‘ "NV.” ‘5N“«~F\ .
. , . - , ._ N -
, "’-
A

_ ‘ggq

 




Nu

BirdScope

\

4

 

 

 

 

 

THOMAS P. CONROY

Vol . II I , No. 5 Editor 8. Publisher

May2 1981
PROM THE FIELD

 

 

——Some rarities in Ontario this spring include the province's first Hermit Warbler
and a Townsend's Solitaire (both at Point Pelee) and a Sage Thrasher (at Rondeau)
Provincial Park).

 

——Ruffs and Reeves, their female counterpart, are widely reported in May. Reeves
were found at Squantum, Mass. and Rock Point State Park, NY. A Ruff in winter
plumage was seen at Detroit's Metro Beach and one in full breeding plumage with a
black ruff was at a sewage pond in Blenheim, Ontario. Another Ruff is reported
from Chippewa County, Wisconsin.

——Another European shorebird, the Curlew Sandpiper, also was seen in Squantum; two
were at Brigantine NWR, NJ and another at the nearby Long Point Sod Banks.

——Terns were featured in two new state records. An Arctic Tern was found dead in
Vermont on May 13 and a Royal Tern was sighted in Arizona on May 13.

——Cattle Egret reports are always interesting as we watch this ”wetback" bird colonize
North America. Reports this month come from Mystic, CT and Haines Point Park,
District of Columbia.

——Ferdinand, VT is one of the few US locations where both species of Black-backed Wood-
pecker may be seen. Displaying Spruce Grouse are thrown in as an added treat.

 

——The elusive Black Rail has been staked out at Turkey Point, NJ as have six Yellow
Rails north of Detroit.

—-Along Dividing Road, near Cape May, is a colony of generally southern passerines.
The local community includes Yellow—throated and Prothonotary Warblers as well as

Summer Tanagers.

——A King Eider has joined the local flock of Red—breasted Mergansers at Point Pelee.
——Both Black—headed and Little Gulls are reported from Rondean Provincial Park, Ont.
——A very tame Harlequin Duck wintered in Sheboygan, Wisconsin and is still there.
-—A new population of Grasshopper Sparrows has been discovered in Central California.

——In the vicinity of Iona Island near Vancouver, BC, both Marbled Godwit and American

Avocet have been sighted.

——Chino Canyon, Arizona is hosting a pair of Black—capped Gnatcatchers for a third
state record of this diminutive Mexican bird.

——The Mexican Crow is another of those birds that may really be two species while the.
Northwestern Crow appears to be no more than a subspecies of the American Crow. These
conclusions appear in an article by Paul DeBenedictus in the April '81 Birding based
on previous studies by others. The Mexican Crow studies show two distinct populations.
One on the East Coast referred to as Tamaulipas Crow and the West Coast birds as

Sinaloa Crow. The populations reportedly can be distinguished by voice and measurements.

 




 

FROM THE FIELD

 

——Rhode Island reports the state's first Vermilion. Flycatcher at Beavertail Point,
Jamestown on April 29. Also a Shelduck (presumed escape) April 5 through 26 at
Island Park in Providenceo (Field Notes of Rhode Island Birds, April 81)

 

——Seven Little Gulls within a flock of Franklin's are reported from Point Pelee, Ont.

The sighting strongly suggests that these EurOpean immigrants may be established
breeders in the area.

-—The best gull-viewing location in Massachusetts this winter was Low Beach on
Nantucket Island. Twelve species were reported on the Christmas Bird Count, includ—
ing Iceland, Lesser Black—backed, Thayer's, Black—headed, Mew and Little. (BOEM, Apr.81)

——A roost of Long—eared Owls, harboring 22 birds, was discovered in Lexington, Mass.
this winter. (BOEM, April 81)

, ——Small numbers of Eastern Kingbirds were observed foraging in Point Pelee's onion
fields on May 17 in the company of Black-bellied Plovers. The Kingbirds behavior was
similar to that expected of Horned Larks..

FOR THE BOOKSHELF

 

——The second edition of Greta Nilsson's "The Bird Business—A Study of the Commercial
Cage Bird Trade" is available. This update reports that world trade in birds is now
a $7.5 million/year business. $5 from the Animal Welfare Institute, P.O.Box 3650,
Washington, DC 20007.

-"Field Guide to the Birds of Australia" by Graham Pizzey, 88 plates by Roy Doyle.
A new one—volume guide, $27.50 Princeton University Press, Princeton, NJ 08540.

—-A revised edition of "A Guide to the Birds of Panama" by Robert Ridgely. 32 plates
by John A. Gwynne, Jr. $18, also Princeton Press.

—-Coming in June is the American Birding Association's "Bird—finding Guide". This
book lists details for 300 hot—spots in loose-leaf form. The pages will be updates of
material previously published in Birding. Presumably the format will be for updating.
$15 before June 15, $20 afterwards plus postage and handling. Order from ABA Sales,
P.O.Box 4335, Austin, TX 78765.

—-Ben King is an itinerant American birder who has spent most of his recent time in
Asia. He is best known for his 1975 Collins "Field Guide to the Birds of Southeast
Asia". In a fascinating interview, published ianirding, Apr.8l, he reveals that he
is presently working on a new volume covering the birds of Japan, Korea, Taiwan and
Micronesia with Joel Abramson doing the plates, as well as a guide for India. The
India book won't be out for another five years. Long range plans also include a
guide for Indonesia.

BIRD ART

——For anyone who has wanted to try their hand, Bird Carving America is producing kits
designed for the beginner. Free catalogue from Box 468, West Cataumet, Cape Cod,

MA 025340

——The 1981 Bird Art Show of the Leigh Yawkey Woodson Art Museum, Wausau, Wisconsin
will run from Sept. 12 through Oct. 25. Afterward the Gulf Oil Corporation is
sponsoring a tour of the exhibit to the Royal Scottish Academy opening Jan. 15, 1982,
the British Museum of Natural History on March 1, and Pittsburgh's Carnegie Museum
on June 7th.




ENDANGERED SPECIES

 

 

—+Helmeted Honeyeater-the state bird of Victoria, Australia has an estimated total
population of 100 to 200 individuals. The bird has suffered from habitat destruction
due to land clearing for farming. To compensate, the state has invested over A$l
million buying land along creeks to create reserves. Reduced habitat has forced the
Helmeted Honeyeater into competition with its near relatives the Yellow—tufted and
White—eared Honeyeaters and the Bell Miner. Fortunately the Helmeted is pugnacious
and long-lived. Young birds remain with the parents to help rear the following
clutch or two. (Aviary Bird & Wildlife, Feb.81)

 

-—Madagascar Serpent Eagle—this bird has not been seen by a zoologist in over 50 years,
but reports persist that a few individuals remain in the last remnants of Madagascar's
rain forest in the Marojejy Nature Reserve and possibly on the Masoala Peninsula.
(Eyas, Spring 81)

——California Condor—the National Wildlife Federation adopted a resolution at its 1981
annual meeting supporting continuation of the present recovery plan as the best
available means to save the species, despite the regretted death of a chick last year.

——Harris',Hawk-this colorful buteo was lost in California as a breeding bird 30 years
ago. It is now being re-introduced by the Santa Cruz Predatory Bird Research Group
along the Colorado River. So far 11 birds were released in 1979 and 19 in 1980.
Release methods include both hacking and cross—fostering to Red—tailed Hawks.

(E1813, Spring 81)

——Kirt1and's Warbler—1981 tours to this rare wood warbler's nesting grounds in Michigan
began May 15th. They are conducted daily by the Michigan Dept. of Natural Resources
from Grayling at 7 AM and 11 AM through July 4th. The U.S. Forest Service also offers
tours beginning at the same time every day, exceptWednesday, from the Mio, Michigan,
Ranger Office through July 11. Unescorted entry to the nesting grounds is prohibited.
Small group reservations are not needed. Last year 491 persons from 27 states and
three foreign countries took part in these tours. This is virtually the only likely
way to ever see one of these birds in continental North America.

——The 3rd biennial Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species was held

in New Delhi, India from Feb. 25 through March 8. Achievements of.this convention

were mostly technical, being concerned with the mechanics of enforcement. Some listing
changes proposed by the U.S. were adOpted however: Gyrfalcons (except the white
Greenland population) were transferred from Appendix I (critically endangered) to
Appendix II (potentially threatened). The Maroon—fronted Parrot and three species of
Amazon: Red-necked, Yellow—shouldered and Red—tailed, were placed on Appendix I. A
broader review of all parrot family trade was referred to a study committee. An
interesting development is the announcement that an identification manual for inspectors
is in preparation and the first sections will soon be available.

-—Common Puffin—the Eastern Egg Rock Island project to re—introduce a Puffin colony
to the Maine Coast is proceeding well. Since 1973 chicks have been fledged on this
island by a team from Cornell University and the Massachusetts Audubon Society in
the hope that they will remain there to breed. Last Summer at least 23 birds were
seen on the island in addition to 100 chicks fledged. It is hoped that the first
breeding will take place in 1981. (Bird Watcher's Digest, May 81)

RARE BIRD ALERTS

 

-—Another section of the map is now covered. Ruth Ogden advises BirdScoEe that
the Tucson Audubon Society now covers Arizona with a 24-hour tape, updated weekly.
Call (602) 88l-WING.

 




ACTIVITIES

——Bird Observer of Eastern Massachusetts has developed a very interesting SYStem tUr
measuring the relative abundance of migrant birds. The system was first used for Ehe.
Spring 1980 warbler migration. This was basically a sampling 51m113r to the tELhnqut
used for the nesting bird survey. Volunteers cover a fixed site or local rOute fOF

the migration period at least once every three days. In this test, 8 sites were ‘
covered and data collected which could not only give overall data for an area, but also
comparative information for different sites and weather effects. Overall results were
as follows:

Relative Abundance of Migrant Warblers
Eastern Massachusetts - May, 1980
(% of total May Warbler Migrants)

Yellow—rumped 21.21 Redstart l
Parula 7.57 Magnolia

Tennessee 6.00 Black-throated Green
Yellow 3.11 Canada

Bay-breasted 2.49 Wilson

Chestnut-sided 1.70 Black—throated Blue
Northern Waterthrush 1.05 Cape May

Palm 0.26 Blue-winged

Mourning 0.03

.87 Black—and-White .87
.69 Blackpoll .36
.64 Common Yellowthroat .17
.05 Ovenbird .56
.20 Blackburnian .16
.51 Nashville .28
.58 Prairie _.30
.20 Pine .07

OOP—‘N'VJU'ICFH

With data like this, especially in birds-per—hour terms, year—to—year change and specific
migration p01nt differences can be measured. This system suggests that bird—watching

during the excitin elop into a valuable ecological tool.
(BOEM, April 1981) -

CALENDAR

June 26—28 Western Field Ornithologists & Colorado Field Ornithologists joint
meeting, Estes Park, Colorado.

July 1-6 National Audubon Society Biennial Convention, YMCA of the Rockies,
Estes Park, Colorado

~PUBLICATIONS

 

——Birdfinding in Canada, a newsletter, began publication in January, 1981. Publisher
is Gerry Bennett. The March issue is a meaty 12 pages including details on where
Yellow Rails might be found, a story about the 2500+ birders who sought out the
Toronto Fieldfare this winter (BirdScope, Jan.l981), the story of David Mark (Canada's
answer to Jim Vardaman) and other features. Bi~monthly, S10 Canadian. C. Bennett,
RR#2, 10780 Pine Valley Dr., Woodbridge, Ontario L4L 1A6.

 

——The Breeding Bird Atlas Newsletter is now being published by the Federation of New
York State Bird Clubs, 20 Drumlins Terrace, Syracuse, NY 13224. (Birdiatcher's Digest
March '81)

 

 

——The Flemish Ornithological Society "De Wielewaal” began publishing an illustrated
monthly newsletter in February, 1980 (Flemish language). Write Paul Herroelen, Vice
President, P/A Van Asschestraat 33, B-1910 Melsbroek, Belguim. Price unknown.

——The National Wildlife Federation is in its second year of publication with a

quarterly journal "The Backyard Wildlifer”. This journal is a continuing
supplement to NWF's Backyard Wildlife Habitat Program.

\x: .4 3/7" / _.
v " 4+ 44.52:." C“ , 444M

 




”MW”.-. .... ,._....,... -v..--t-m. .-». .. a

“nos

EiiﬁsiiiiERED iii; . . . = SPEClES'
0.8. [1.8.8: Foreign . . '. . " ‘, TOW.
Only Foreign Only

 

J

--v

it i

.i
3

ill

M—.—....

280

N

Mammais 15 17 224
Birds 52 14 M4
Espiiias 7
Amphibians 5
Fishes 29
_ _ Snziis 2
New Pubiications iams 23
. § r...
The Bird Business: A Study or the Com- 92:53:?“ J
meroiai’ Cage B'ird Trade (Second pgaﬁis 43
Edition—1981) by Greta Ni isson reports mm 139
that world trade in wild bird . .as recent-
iy amounted toa minimum of T.“ u .i miiiion ' 1 ' , ‘ .i ' - ; ' ' 5 red and rea
annually. Reasons for the incrcase in 4: .2. . _, r 2 ; L. - ‘ a '7 Jgta‘i’ W0l= Dalc ea
trade ar-d its dan’iaging side effects are J J ' " “ ‘J' 'J J J
documented in this study sponsored by
tne ~mi me i" ei‘are institute. Copies may
be OJCJJJJJe DJJ JOJ $5 00 irom either the Number of Criticai Habitats listed: 48
AJJJ JaJ JJJJJJeJJaJJe JJJSJJJ J‘JJe JD “'0 89X 3650 Number of Recovery Teams appointed: 68
Ivashington; 0029007., or the Humane Number of Recovery Plans approved: 41
SGC'BTY OJ the United States, 2100 L Number of Cooperative Agreements signed with States:
Street. N.W.. Washington. DC. 20036. 38 fish a wildlife
1O piants

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

d

 

(uncommon-cam
NdNQODOOJ§OCD
wmcaccaaco—n

N

tne ned. are
ctie Amer-

Number of spa eci Jes currently proposed: ‘ii animals
9 piants

March 31. 198?

4r, An r75 .:5,-' so ""b,’iography of the Desert
e

I
Tortoise G: "in rus agassizi, Desert
Tortoise Coo ncii ecial Pubii cation No
“ eox scone REVlSiONS

" r :4 rd
8J5 (378515395. JS 3086: JJJJJJbJe TOCJJtrTSJD:::g As you may have noticed the Box Score has been slightly revised ln-
. . V ”. stead of two expianatory columns (U. S and foreign) under botn t'ne

TOJJO JSEJ COJJJJCJJ _ JJJJJOS Drive, ndangered and Threatened ciassitications. there are now three.
Long Beach, ‘ ' Column one under each class: fication includes species found oniy in me
U.S.: column two those ‘ound both in the U. S and in foreign countries.
Threatened a d Endangered Piants 0’ and coiu mn tnree, those found only in foreign countries. Therefore.

eVIada An ii/Ju frAa‘z'ed '4 48nua/3 has be en species are counted oniy once and a; pear oniy in one coiumn. Totais
JDJubiisned joint .y Svby the Fish and Wiidiit’e can be computed by adding across or down the cnart
Service and me Bureau of Lane ' As noted in the Box Score itself tte Desperate nEno‘angered at
ivianagement Free » copies are. avaiiabie ene” DODUJBJ‘JOJ‘S OJ “"6 JJSJ‘OC
from tne Se ervi ce 3 Porti and Reg ional Of— TJJ'JS ”7'8”.”‘3" OJ aCCOUJJJJJJJ: JO’J
, ﬂ , “species as defined bv the
fire EJJ, J'JJE (“Bureau OJJ “End Management, lite or piants and any distinct pops-i atic-n segment 0
\JEJVJOG‘E’ 8 ate OJ JCE’ 500 Booth S‘Jee“ tebrate or wildliie wnicr. interbreeds wrien mature."
. Dend, Nevada 89509.

 

 

 

 

 

. L-y- «v; Tr; ‘ . -- am germ-2.: j ’1’""7~' _‘ ~75} : «'3' ... 5‘. rags;

ewosneeeeo J
seeciss
JeuLLETiN J

U 5 DEPARTMENT O

 

 

 

 

Sepanrnent oi the i'tis-VIO’ 0 US. Fish and Wiidiife Semee ' Enﬂahgemd SW’C'BS Fifi-3‘1““- Washington. D V 20240 Int4 423

APRIL 1981, Vol. VI, No. 4

 




 

THE CHRISTIAN SCIENCE MONITOR

TUesday, March 1 0, "1981

_..-.a.... ..

By Barth .J. Falkenberg, staff photographer

Birds like this cockatoo are paying the price for the exotic taste of bird fanciers around the world

Agriculture could be hurt

 

Exotic birds: report cites dangers of imports

By David F. Salisbury
Staff correspondent of The Christian Science Monitor
Denver

It seems so harmless.

You drive down to .your local pet shop and look over all
the brightly colored tropical birds. You buy one of these
exotic creatures, possibly for companionship or to impress
your friends.

' Yet each such decision is the tip of an iceberg —— the end
point of a process that is decimating many bird'popula-
tions in South America, Africa, and Asia. In addition, this
“ trade threatens the survival of a number of domestic spe-
cies of birds and could adversely affect agriculture in a
7 number of developed nations.

These damaging side effects of the international exotic
bird trade are spelled Out in word and picture’by “The Bird
Business,” a study conducted by Greta Nilson for the
Animal Welfare Institute in Washington, D.C.

. Drawing heavily on official statistics and sources and

quoting the concerns of well-known ornithologists, this
study draws a restrained but devastating picture of the
impact that the current world trade in birds is having.

“Within the past 20 years . . . bird dealers’have created
a new demand for an ever-increasing variety of birds. . .
To satisfy this new market. w.orld trade in wild birds
has recently amounted to a minimum of 7. 5 million birds
annually,” the study reports.

The demand for some species has become so great that
a number are becoming rare in their native lands. The
scarlet macaw in Central America and the mynah in

. Thailand are examples of species currently suffering the
* effects of overhunting.
The demand for rare birds' 15 multiplied by the fact that

1 * , ‘ for every bird that makes it to a pet shop cage, at least five

others die in traps or shipping cages, Miss Nilson
estimates.

Despite regulatiOns in countries such as the United
States and Britain and some recent improvement, ship-
ping conditions remain inhumane. Large numbers of birds
are injured or killed by overcrowding, lack of food and
" water, suffocation, and overheating, the study charges.

Furthermore, many of the birds are unsuited to life in
,. _ cages and require specialized diets. As a result, many die

' after only a short time in captivity.

, A number of countries have recognized thisproblem
and curtailed or banned exports of their rare and endan-
gered birds. In South and Central America, Colombia,
, Bolivia, and Costa Rica have stopped all exports. In Asia,

India, Japan, Sri Lanka, Taiwan, and Indonesia have cur-
tailed exports. However, a number of other countries have ‘
stepped up their exports.

Not only does this international tradethreaten bird speé '
cies in their homelands, but it also poses a serious threat to
domestic species in America and other importing coun-
tries, the study points out.

To date,__some 25 exotic species have become estab—
lishedtin the continental US. The oldest of these are the
house sparrow and the European starling —— which were
intentionally introduced in the 19th century by hemesick
Europeans who missed familiar species. Both have had a
negative impact on US agriculture and native US bird pop-

ulations. Starlings, for example, drive woodpeckers and

Eastern bluebirds out of their nests and have been a major
factor in those birds’ decline.

Similarly, “a number of the tropical birds imported to
the US are serious agricultural pests in their homeland,
the study claims. An example is the monk parakeet. These;
birds spread throughout the Midwest in the late 19605.
Because 'of the monk parakeet’s voraciousness, 13
Northeastern states cooperated in an apparently success-
ful parakeet eradication program in 1973. -

However, the rose-Winged parakeet, a major agricule
tural pest in India, has established breeding populations in
Florida. Their relatives, the canary-Winged parakeets, are
thriving in San Francisco, where they could become a ma-
jor vineyard pest if they spread into nearby N apa Valley,
the study warns

In 1975, the California Department of Agriculture esti-
mated that three imported species could cause as much as
$1.2 million annual damage to the state’s fruit, nut, and
grain crops.

Many of these birds also carry diseases, some of which
threaten the domestic poultry industry. This problem has
been recognized since the turn of the century, when
Congress passed “injurious wildlife regulations.” But only
five bird species are banned under these regulations and,
according to the Animal Welfare Institute study, several of
these have been imported despite this prohibition.

In 1973, the Fish and Wildlife Service proposed far-
reaching regulations that would ban import of all but five
species of exotic birds. This plan was attacked by pet in-
dustry forces, and the regulations were withdrawn. Four
years later the Wildlife Service tried again. They sug-
gested adding four species to the regulations. Again they
were withdrawn after strenuous opposition.

 

 

 




 

MAILGRAL SLRVILL CENTER

11111111111111; fH-ﬁaabéﬁ Pager” unmn “Mallgra

p.155 POST/.7 ®

1

®

1» UNITED s,
L anmaas‘

l:
m
I:
>

’tttﬁt*'

 

 

002 03/12/81 Ice IFMNTZZ use NSHE
M9" TLNI LNeLINLNLN LL 03-;2 1223L st

R $TLVEN$
1LeL 34 SI NORILNEST
wAsLINLLLN LL'LLOOI

TLIE MALLLLNM IL A LLNFILNAIILN CUPY CF THE FOLLOWINL1NE85AGL:

202337235: TLN1 NALLINLTUN DC 32 LSLLE 1223L EST

LNs BRINN’ELyNN“NEGISTER NNL ILIELNE SYNDICATE. LONE 5192842245 COPY

MESSAGE

BOX 4994

DES NLINLS 1N 5050b

PER CUR LLNVLNSATILN TODAY LL ARE INCLLLINL THE LLLLLNINU LINE IN LLN

COPY FOR REPRiNI INFERNATICN PLEASE CCNIACT ERIAN FLYNN LLLISTLR NNL

TRIBUNE 5WNDILATL BOX 0990 LES MCINES IA 50305 PLLASL NCNNLNLLLGL
JLLN LLLILEN ""

12:24 Ls}

MGLCLMP1LLN

5241 (RI/78)

TO REPLY BY MAILGRAM, SEE REVERSE SIDE FOR WESTERN UNION'S TOLL - FREE PHONE NUMBERS

I

l

.r .
I

1

 




 




 

By BarthJ. Falkenberg staff photographer » '

Birds like this cookatoo are paying the price for the exotic taste of bird fanciers around the world

Agriculture could be hurt

 

Ethic birds: report cites dangers of imports

. By DavidF. Salisbury '
Staff correspondent of The Christian Science Monitor
Denver

It seems so harmless.

You drive down to .your local pet shop and look over all
the brightly colored tropical birds. You buy one of these
exotic creatures, possibly for companionship or to impress
your friends.

Yet each such decision is the tip of an iceberg — the end
point of a process that is decimating many bird popula-
tions in South America. Africa, and Asia. In addition, this
trade threatens the survival of a number of domestic spe-
cies of birds and could adversely affect agriculture in a
number of developed nations. -

These damaging side effects of the international exotic
bird trade are spelled out in word and picture by “The Bird
Business,” a study conducted by Greta Nilson for the
Animal Welfare Institute in Washington, DC.

Drawing heavily on official statistics and sources and
quoting the concerns of well-known ornithologists, this
study draws a restrained but devastating picture of the
impact that the current world trade in birds is having.

“Within the past 20 years . . . bird dealers have created
a new demand for an ever-increasing variety of birds. . . .
To satisfy this new market . . . world trade in Wild birds
has recently amounted to a minimum of 7 5 million birds
annually,’ the study reports “

The demand for some species has become so great that
a number are becoming rare in their native lands. The
scarlet macaw in Central America and the mynah in
Thailand are examples of Species currently suffering the

effects of overhunting. —

The demand for rare birds is multiplied by the 1' act that
for every bird that makes it to a pet shop cage, at least five
others die in traps or shipping cages, \Iiss Nilson

estimates. — ~

Despite regulations in countries such as the Lnited
States and Britain and some recent improx ement, ship-
ping conditions remain inhumane. Laige numbers of birds
are. injured or killed by overcrouding, lack of food and
water. suffocation, and overheating. the study charges.

Furthermore, many of the birds are unsuited to life in
cages and require specialized diets. As a result, many die
afterme a 5hr rt ti. .e in captivity.

-' ~ ﬁgs have recur?"-

U

‘ a ( .
1', {PLK (“PI

1:.1"
\..

India, Japan, Sri Lanka, Taiwan, and Indonesia have cur-
tailed exports. However, a number of other countries have '

stepped up their exports.

Not only does this international tradeihreaten bird spe-
cies in their homelands, but it also poses a serious threat to
domestic species in America and other importing coun-
tries, the study points out.

To date _some 25 exotic species have become estab-
lished in the continental US. The oldest of these are the
house sparrow and the European starling - which were
intentionally introduced in the 19th century by homesick
Europeans who missed familiar species Both have had a
negative impact on US agriculture and native US bird pop-

ulations. Starlings, for example, drive woodpeckers and

Eastern bluebirds out of their nests and have been a major
factor in those birds decline. '

Similarly a number 'of the tropical birds imported to
the US are serious agricultural pests in their homeland,
the study claims. An example is the monk parakeet. These
birds spread throughout the Midwest in the late 19605.
Because ‘of the monk parakeet’s voraciousness, 13
Northeastern states eboperated in an apparently success-
ful parakeet eradication program in 1973. 1

However, the rose—winged parakeet a major agricul-
tural pest in India, has established breeding populations in
Florida. Their relatives. the canary-singed parakeets. are
thriving in San Francisco where they could become a ma-
jor vineyard pest if the3 spread into nearby Napa V alley,
the study 31' arms.

In 1 a,the California Department of Agriculture esti-
mated that three imported species could cause as much as
$1. 2 million annual damage to the state’s fruit, nut, and
grain crops - _

Many of these birds also carry diseases, some of which
threaten the domestic poultry industry. This problem has
been recognized since the turn of the century, when
Congress passed “injurious wildlife regulations.” But only
five bird species are banned under these regulations and,
according to the Animal VI elfare Institute study, se eral of
these ha. e been imported despite this prohibition.

In 1973, the Fish and Wildlife Service preposed far-
reaching regulations that would ban import of all but five
species of exotic. birds. This plan was attacked by pet in-
d1 311'} .1. rtes and the regulations were uithdranm Four
"curs Eater the X‘Iiidii‘c Scrxice tried again.
lz-z'Li E .Eog Tcur sr‘c'

. ‘11 1M , rI,,_.. I
x. . \:

 

 




Per our telephone conversation togay, we a e including the
following line in our copy "For,Keprint »nformation, please
contact Brian Flynn, Register and Tribune Syndicate, Box 4994,

Des Moines, EA 50306. Please acknowledge.

JG

mm m to 13W 342%;
Wm [WM

 




 

3 March 1981

The Hindustan Times,

75"}... "

it:

'EW DELHI. March 2 -- lndia
ms to be heading the dubious
oi exporters of wild birds——
\ s whicn, atter a long ordeal re-
‘suitinx in thousands of casualties,
:end up in the fashionable drawlni
rooms of the West at fancy prices
The multiorniiii’on 'doliar opera-
tion involves the trappin of an
iSaturated 7.5 million bir every
,,eer irom the Jungles of Asia.
iAin‘ca and Latin America. india‘s
Icontribution is put at 1.85 million.
‘ i‘hat anyway was the average over
a seven-year period endin 1978.
iigures for which are aveiia le.
Surely, there is big money but
not for the iocal trapper. A hing-
necked Parakeet. which fetches the
indian trapper about Re 1. is put
up on the British show window,
and the price tag reads the equi~
talent of Rs 225. Many common
birds appreciate in value by even
200 times.
The world bird trade has been
graphically" . catalogued by Greta
iN‘itsson in a study under the aus-
. piece of Washington's Animal Wel-
iare institute. The account of the
indian scenario has been provided

_ oy Tim inskipp.

The study points out that 40 per
cent of the trapped binds die dur-
ing the journey from capture to
the export stations. Many of the
survivors are eagerly grabbed by
the US petochatns. The most popu-
lar and lucrative of the birds in
'this $100 million annual retail
sales are invariably parrots.

Ti thxe returns—ouch as the

blue and yellow Macaw, trapped
for 4 in South America and sold
at .500 at the US stores-have
onl spawned largescale smug-
gling. Birdsconcealed in spare
tire sells. vases and car door
panels find their way into the US.
.iany smuguied birds also harbour
lite Exotic Newcastle disease. a big
throat. to poultry industry.
i 'i'he predominant destination of
'indian birds. however, is Japan and
‘not the US. About ‘1 per cent of
the 13 million birds exported from
india during 1970-73 went to Japan.
in fact. Japan depended on lndia
for a iourth of its requirement of
wild birds. italy. France. Belgium
and the US followed Japan.

0! the 1,160 species of birds re-
corded in india. 289 have been
identified as exported since 1970.
Barring 18 winter visitors from
further north in Asia. all species
exported were ones breeding in
indie. Since 1970, bird dealers are
said to have advertised 227 Indian
species for sale in the UK.

Although the majority of the
indian birds exported were widely-
distributed. such as the bed avada-
vat and black-beaded manmkin.
some uncommon or even rare and
protected species had also been
involved, according to Tim lnskipp.
The situation in respect of protccl-
ed species may have improved with
indie ratifying the Convention on
international Trade in Endanger-

ed Species in July 1976, but this is.

only in respect of normal exports.
One has no clue to the extent at
smuggling in these rare species.
The study also points to attempts
at hoodwinkinz authorities. A par-
ticular consignment of the en-
dangered lszzar falcons. bound for
West Germany, had been falsely
declared as f‘ravens", presumably to
:deceive the indian authorities.
- Another - controversial raciice
'reportedly'employed by in ian ex-
rters is dyving of birde, the idea
n; to turn relatively ousting.-

Rothschiid’s starlings from

lndoncsia and (below) the.

scarlet macaw, the most

colourful of the parrot
family.

~;~ “1“”7'7‘?' . c t
;: Teﬁaej‘mﬁ -. . .-. ‘.
_. £6 . r ’

{$.33 .01}
§ § ﬂi
b .

J -a- ' '
. r ’ '. ‘13:,- x ,- ~- ”9 , .
137‘;1$1"f~.‘ -"‘..

3 ’ .“ ~ ~
I .‘\ i ‘
‘ ‘ I
v .‘

_.\_
1 .. v ~.~
*- _».. .. .,“-\. -‘ - -.
o l . \ x
“ ‘ :‘ :1.i:‘.~‘ ' 33$) ‘9‘ “
e — - 5” »
‘ e

_. e, ‘\s*§‘\‘t\\\
‘ -'§n"‘r '~r-;.

u ...\.

"in". has ,.. _

I ~ .._- .‘ .. ..:~“«."‘...:‘_ .‘
.‘ 3);;Wel: \.; It (at). - :. ‘ H .'

‘ £V‘§:‘.:§\¢\, 3’2 '\‘.,*‘_‘.~‘. -

‘ ‘ - ..- it" .k't'lﬁ““\'&_ >“‘.~ ‘
- . n ‘\

‘ \n . .::’:‘§ ‘?$ y \I n ..
e. - .. .‘ ~ _.

...i‘ " \ 3 {Nisan

‘\

live birds into a readily saleable
commodity. Opinion is sharply divi~
dcd on the consequences of dyeing.
While one group has claimed more
than 30 per cent fatalities because
of dyeing, another believes that
dyeing actually causes fewer than
the normal deaths.

inskipp has reported cxiemivrly
on the trap in: methods employ-cd.
The birds, e says are trapped pri.
marily in Bihar and Utter Prods-sh,
mainly in the Gangetic plain and
the Himalayan foothills. Most trap-
ping is carried out by
aioml trapper: to order.
”“4”" "Mid identify not

These
only

profes-

the spcclcs. but sometimes
”Mir MK and one.

Among the ioivign spccws. one
of the birds most threatened by
inr‘ot‘s inclusive of the cage bird
trade is the scarlet macaw. dos-
cribcd as "perhaps the most colour-
iui and host known nicmher oi the
pziirot family." The bllft‘lt‘S is dec-
lining rapidly in many parts of
Latin America.

According to Greta Niissnn, the
<(‘..li(‘l macaw has been t'apluri‘d
for the cage bird trade in larne
numbers during th" past decade.
end ”S rancc has steadily (iccrces-
mi. "At present. .. is ncai'ly ex-
tinct in all of central America.
where once it with very common."

()ne nets a cicar idea of how
birdvmcrcenuries operate from an
illustration in the study, which
quotes on advertisement in the
1.05 Angcles 'i‘imcs. Unabashcdly,
the advertiser states: the days
of scarlet mncawe importation arc
sevm'ely numbered. if you have
ever wanted or will even want one
of those prizes, this may be the
last opportunity to buy one with-
out rcfinancing your home. it you
are sincere about a scarlet. we Will
be oiien Sunday. from 10 a.m.. to
6 pm. And no need to bring you
glovcs—Jiurs nro uil lame...

Another covctcd one {or the
cute bird trade is eimcrou. Du'mi-
nica's natioml biid. it is one of
tlic lament. most beautiful and
most endangered parrots in the
world. Only a few remain in the
mountain rain forest of Dominica.
Though protcctc-d by laws for over
75 yeans, the Dominican (.oyern-
mom has appcalcd to all to p“)-
icct smscrnu from huntinz. ('51,)-
ture. ncst destruction, eggetealin;
and exportation .

Yet another favourite of caller-
tors, and currently endangered on
that very account. is liothschilds
starlinﬂ. a naizvc of Hoii island .I
lndonesia. 'lhis pure-white member
of the Marlin: and mynah iam.‘.v
is being cdccd out because of mm
int loss and in-avy trapang for life
care bird trade.

ev:n

I

 




1081

10 March

Christi n Science Monitor,

ﬂeas“

iiiure Cbiitj be hurt

 

Exotic birds: report cites dangers of imports

By David F. Salisbury —
Staff correspondent of The Christian Science Monitor
. Denver

It seems so harmless.

You drive down to your local pet shop and look over all
the brightly colored tropical birds. You buy one of these
exotic creatures, possibly for companionship or to impress
your friends.

Yet each such decision is the tip of an iceberg — the end
point of a process that is decimating many bird popula-
tions in South America, Africa, and Asia. In addition, this
trade threatens the survival of a number of domestic spe-
cies of birds and could adversely affect agriculture ina
number of developed nations.

These damaging side effects of the international exotic
bird trade are spelled out in word and picture by “The Bird
Business,” a study conducted by Greta Nilson for the
Animal Welfare Institute in Washington, DC.

Drawing heavily on official statistics and sources and
quoting the concerns of well-known ornithologists, this
study draws a restrained but devastating picture of the
impact that the current world trade in birds is having.

“Within the past 20 years . . . bird dealers have created
a new demand for an ever—increasing variety of birds. . . .
'11— satisfy this new market . . . world trade in wild birds
155.5 recently amounted to a minimum of 7.5 million birds
annually,” the study reports.

The demand for some species has become so great that
a number are becoming rare in their native lands. The
scarlet macaw in Central America and the mynah in
Thailand are examples of species currently suffering the
effects of overhunting.

The demand for rare birds is multiplied by the fact that
for every bird that makes it to a pet shop cage, at least five
others die in traps or shipping cages, Miss Nilson
estimates.

Despite regulations in countries such as the United
States and Britain and some recent improvement, ship-
ping conditions remain inhumane. Large numbers of birds

are injured or killed by overcrowding, lack of food and

water, suffocation, and overheating, the study charges.
Furthermore, many of the birds are—unsuited to life in

cages and require specialized diets. As a result, many die .

after only a short time in captivity.

A number of countries have recognized this problem
and curtailed or banned exports of their rare and endan-
gered birds. In South and Central America. Colombia,

I . ..
THE \a".t.S}'ffl‘::TOfs’ ST/«a l.‘.t1n:;;,',l.«iarch 1E,

78 WhOOping Cranes

A record number of whooping cranes are pre-
paring for their spring migration and the b1
birds seem to be makir. g a comeback from near
extinction the government said yesterday

The main flock nou numberin" 7° \"11! r :n
bt gm (1 25 until-3:" ... rat“!

rs

to Canada

India, Japan, Sri Lanka, Taiwan, and Indonesia have cur-
tailed exports. However, a number of other countries hav:
stepped up their exports.

Not only does this international trade threaten bird Sp
cies in their homelands but it also poses a serious threat 1 .
domestic species in America and other importing COUJ —
tries, the study points out

To date some 25 exotic species have become estate
lished in the continental US. The oldest of these are 1;
house sparrow and the European starling —- which wer-
intentionally introduced in the 19th century by homes1c.
Europeans who missed familiar species. Both have had t
negative impact on US agriculture and native US bird pop-
ulations. Starlings, for example, drive woodpeckers an;
Eastern bluebirds out of their nests and have been a major
factor in those birds’ decline.

Similarly, a number of the tropical birds imported tr
the US are serious agricultural pests in their homeland
the study claims. An example is the monk parakeet. Thes
birds spread throughout the Midwest inthe late 1960.
Because of the monk parakeet’s voraciousness. i
Northeastern states cooperated in an apparently success
ful parakeet eradication program in 1971-).

However, the rose—winged parakeet. a major agrict
tural pest in India, has established breeding populations 1
Florida. Their relatives, the canary-winged parakeets. ar:
thriving in San Francisco, where they could become a m.~
jor vineyard pest if they spread into nearby Napa Vahe'
the study warns.

In 1975, the California Department of Agriculture es.
mated that three imported species could cause as much a
$1.2 million annual damage to the state’s fruit, nut. an.
grain crops.

Many of these birds also carry diseases, some of which
threaten the domestic poultry industry. This problem has
been recognized since the turn of the century, whez.
Congress passed “injurious wildlife regulations." But only
five bird species are banned under these regulations and
according to the Animal Welfare Institute study, several Of
these have been imported despite this prohibition.

In 1973, the Fish and Wildlife Service proposed far—
reaching regulations that would ban import of all but five
species of exotic birds. This plan was attacked by pet in-
dustry forces, and the regulations were withdrawn. Four
years later the Wildlife Service tried again. They sug-
gested adding four Species to the regulations Again they
were withdrawn after strenuous ppposition. ~ _— f —————

Los Angeles Times,

More than 36011.1”: Won't. e.
feathers from protected birds have
beer. seized by federal and state
agents in Oklahoma, New Mexico
and Arizona an Interior Depart-
ment spokes. as said. The feathers

m an) of which were to be used 111
the manufacture of ceremonial pet: -
0te ritual fans that sell for as much
as $600 apiece. had been plucked
from eagles, woodpeckers. hawks.
owls and about 4,000 SClSSOPLELliGO
ﬂycatchers—Oklahoma's state bird
—off1cials said.

 

3 March 1981




 

 

 

I xi 15%? MHVXQI
THE IIV'III/II‘IAIIOLIS ‘IEWS
Il‘iDIf‘NAPOLIS, IND.
a. 152,362

@4612;

APR 1 8 1981

 

223/ .
In addition to those reviewed in Free Time,
The News received the following books

scheduled for pulication this week:

GENERAL

“In Performance: A Companion to the Classics of
the Dance” (Harmony), by Nancy Reynolds and Susan
Reimer~Torn A history of the art, with photographs of
outstanding choreographers and performers during the
last 150 years.

“The Tycoons” (Simon 8: Schuster), by Arthur M.
Louis. The associate editor of Fortune magazine tells
how America‘s most successful executives got to the
top. Law"

“The Terror Network” (Holt, Rinehart & Winston),
- by Claire Sterling. An American foreign correspondent
based in Italy reports on the secret war manifested by
kidnapings, murders and airplane hijackings.

“Furniture of the American Arts and Crafts Move-
ment: Stickley and Roycroft Mission Oak” (New
American Library), by David M. Cathers; illustrated
with 200 black and white photographsﬁm.

“Five Economic Challenges“ "(Prentice-Hall), by
Robert Heilbroner and Lester Thurow. How to cope
with inflation, recession, big government, the falling
dollar and the energy crisis.

“True Britt” (Prentice-Hall), by Britt Ekland. The
Swedish actress’ candid autobiography in which she
tells of her marriage at 21 to actor Peter Sellers and
her romance with rock star Rod Stewart.

"Miracle Mongers and Their Methods: A Complete
Expose” (Prometheus), by Harry Houdini. Reprint of
a book published shortly before the American mag—
ician’s death in 1926. 1.,»

”Corsair: The Life of J. Pierpont Morgan” (Little,
Brown), by Andrew Sinclair; illustrated with photo
graphs.

“Mountbatten” (Random House), by Richard
Hough. This biography of Lord Louis Mounbatten was
published in England last year on the first anniversary
of the British naval hero’s tragic death in August 1979.

“The Inner Game of Golf” (Random House), by
Tim Gallwey. A manual of exercises to enable the
player to improve through experimentation.

”The Man From the Cave” (Knopf), by Colin
Fletcher. The author reconstructs the life of a wander-
er whose personal effects he had found in a trunk at
the mouth of a cave in a Nevada desert.

”Mr. October: The Reggie Jackson Story” (New
York Times Books), by Maury Allen. The story of a
black boy from a Jewish suburb of Philadelphia who
rose to stardom in major league baseball.

“Energy Policy,” by the editors of Congressional
Quarterly; “Energy, Politics and Public Policy,” by
Walter A. Rosenbaum, and “The Politics of Federal
Grants,” by George E. Hale and Marian Leif Palley
(all published by Congressional Quarterly.)

“The Bird Business”(ApMﬂelfarewlnstitgte), by
Greta Nilsson. A study of the commercial cage-bird
trade. .. . .

“Sandcastles” (Doubleday), text by Joseph Allen;
design by Don and Debra McQuiston; photography by
Marshall Harrington. A pictorial pilgrimage.

“The Primordial Bond” (Plenum Press), by
Stephen H. Schneider and Lynne Morton. An explora-
ion of links between man and nature through the
iumanities and sciences. '

“Too Long a Sacrifice-glide and Death in Northern
,reland Since 1969” (Dodd, Mead), by Jack Holland.
“in Irishman of mixed Catholic—Protestant parentage
)ortrays the woes of the Emerald Isle.

“American Pocket Watches” (Harmony), by Cook-
;ey Shugart. A guide for collectors of timepieces.

“The Amateur Archeologist’s Handbook” (Harper
1: Row), by Maurice Robbins, director of the Bronson
Museum of the Massachuszetts Archeological Society.
A guide for digging into America’s past.

“Jack London” (Crown), by Russ Kingman. A
Jictorial biography of the late 19th and early 20th
:entury writer.

“Gentle Vengeance: An Account of the First Year
at Harvard Medical School” (Marek), by Charles
LeBaron. The author, now in his third year at Harvard
Wed, tells of his battle to survive as a freshman when
at age 34 he was by far the oldest in the class of 165.

“Thesaurus of Book Digests: 19501980” (Crown),
:ompiled by Hiram Haydn and Edmund Fuller. Con-
:ise summaries of more than 1,700 books -- fiction,
)oetry, the humanities, sciences, including translations
nto English —- published in the last 30 years.

“Profile of the Dixon Family” (Exposition Press),
)y Mary J. Dixon Williams. A retired teacher tells of
ier ancestors rising from slavery and becoming land
)wners and public leaders in Dixieland.

“Great Surveys of the American West” (University

if Oklahoma PMS), by Richard Bartlett; 'How tout", _,
geo aphical and geological Surveys carried out be- ‘

wee’n‘ 1867 and 1879 became “blueprints” for

New Arrivals

America’s expansion beyond the Mississippi River.

“A History of the Indiana Historical Society: 1830
1980” (Indiana Historical Society), edited by Lana
Ruegamer. A sesquicentennial souvenir, illustrated
with portraits and copies of documents marking the
society‘s milestones.

“‘The Whole Truth: The Watergate Conspiracy”
(Random House), by Sam Ervin, former North
Carolina senator who presided at the hearings which
led to the downfall of President Richard M. Nixon.

“Memorandum for the President: A Strategic Ap
proach to Domestic Affairs in the 19805,” by Ben W.
Heineman Jr. and and Curtis A. Hessler. Heineman,
HEW assistant secretary in the Carter administration.
and Curtis, assistant secretary in the Treasury Depart-
ment at the same time, ask: Is a successful presidency
possible?

“The Israeli Left“ (AS. Barnes 81 Co), by Peretz
Merhav. A history of the labor movement in Israel.

"‘The Official PGA Tour Media Guide 1981" (Work-
man), meant for reporters and broadcasters covering
the Professional Golf Association Tour, but containing
much general information, such as a glossary of golf
terms and a year-by-year summary of the US. and
British Opens.

”The World of the Unborn" (Marek), by Leni
Schwartz; foreword by Dr. (Ireevy. A psychologist,
who is the mother of three and the grandmother of
three, offers evidence that the nine months in the
womb have the most lasting effects it a human life.

“A Pictorial History of the She burne Museum”
(published by the Museum of Shelburne, Vt), com—
piled by Richard Lawrence Greene and Kenneth
Edward Wheeling. A treasury of Americana.

FICTION

“-Winter’s Tales 26” (St.Martin’s Press), edited by
AD. Maclean. A collection of 11 short stories by Brian
Aldiss, Beryl Bainbridge, Christopher Burney, Douglas
Dunn, Nadine Gordimer, Angela Huth, Francis King,
Edna O’Brien, Julia O’Faolain, William Trevor and
Tobias Wolff.

“The Survivor of Babi Yar” (Stonehenge Books),
by Othniel J. Seiden. A novel about genocide in the
Ukraine, as Russians followed through for the German
persecutors of Jews.

“Stand Into Danger” (Putnam‘s), a swashbuckling
saga about his Britannic majesty’s Royal Navy, the

hero being an 18-year-old third lieutenant, set in 1774.
I

I‘The Strand” (Putnam?s),-by~ClaireRayner. A
would-be actress and the spoiled beauty of the 1892
London season weave their complex ways into a
surgeon’s life. The author’s eighth novel in “The
Performers” series. .

“Designs” (Evans), by Richard Horn. A young and
beautiful divorcee with $500,000 to spend on her New
York apartment beholds the interior decorator whose
masculine charms will provide the right decor.

“The Hangman’s Crusade” (Coward, McCann &
Geoghegan), by James Barwick. A novel intertwining
fiction and historical fact about the career and assassi-
nation of Reinhard Heydrich, the “hangman” chosen
by Adolf Hitler to carry out the “final solution” of the
Jewish question

“Bravo Romeo” (Marek), by Ralph Peters. A
former Vietnam guerrilla fighter now serving in
military intelligence in Europe uncovers a right-wing
conspiracy and thus becomes a one-man army against
the entire German police network.

“The Officers’ Wives” (Doubleday), by Thomas
Fleming. The story of three brides who marched
beneath an arch of shining sabers at their weddings on
West Point's graduation day in June 1950 and then saw
their husbands, the new second lieutenants, march off
to the Korean War.

“Domestic Arrangements” (EvanS), by Norma
Klein. An adult novel about the paradoxes set up
between love and sex and their effect on family life in
America.

FOR YOUNG READERS

“How I Trained My Colt” (Doubleday), by Sandy
Rabinowitz; illustrated by the author.

“The Complete Beginner’s Guide to Stereo" (Dou-
bleday), by Richard B. Lyttle.

“Things Kids Collect” and “The Dolt Better Book”
(Holt, Rinehart & Winston), by Shari Lewis; illustra-
tions by Helen McCarthy.

“The Master Puppeteer” (Avon Camelot), by
Katherine Paterson; illustrated by Haru Wells. The
story of a Japanese Robin Hood. Age level, 10 to 15
years. _

“The Little Man and the Big Thief” (Avon Came

,Iot),..,by Erich Kaester; translated from the German by

Jamesliirkup; illustrated by Stanley Mack. Age level .4,"

10161 .

 

 

 

 




 

AP 2 9 1981

I? pg; ’2 t
» a

Importing exotic
birds like this I
cockatoo has
become a
dangerous business
-' both for imported
and domestic birds,
and for agriculture.

Bll’d busmess can be dangerous

By DAVID F. SALISBURY

of the Christian Science Monitor News Service A . 'r ' /

DENVER, COLO.

 

It seems so harmless.

You drive down to your local pet shop and look over all
the brightly colored tropical birds. You buy one of these
exotic creatures, possibly for companionship or to im-
. press your friends. “

Yet each such decision IS the tip of an iceberg— the end
point of a process that is decimating many bird
populations in South America, Africa and Asia. In ad-
dition, this trade threatens the survival of a number of

domestic species of birds and could adversely affect

agriculture in a number of developed nations.

These damaging side effects of the international exotic
bird trade are spelled out in word and picture by “The
Bird Business,” a study conducted by Greta N ilson for the
Animal Welfare Institute in Washington, D. C.

Drawing heav1ly on official statistics and sources and

quoting the concerns of well- known ornithologists, this
study draws a restrained but devastating picture of the
' impact that the current world trade in birds is having.
’ “Within the past 20 years... bird dealers have created a
new demand for an ever-increasing variety of birds... To
satisfy this new market... world trade in wild birds has
recently amounted to a minimum of 7. 5 million birds
annually,” the study reports ‘

The demand for some species has become so great that
a number are becoming rare in their native lands. The
scarlet macaw in Central America and the mynah in

Thailand are examples of species currently suffering the.

effects of overhunting.

The demand for rare birds 18 multiplied by the fact that
for every bird that makes it to a pet shop cage, at least
five others die in traps or shipping cages, Miss Nilson
estimated.

A number of countries have recognized this problem
and curtailed or banned exports of their rare and en-
dangered birds. In South and Central America: Colombia,
Bolivia and Costa Rica have stopped all exports. In Asia:
India, Japan, Sri Lanka, Taiwan and Indonesia have
curtailed exports. However, a number of other countries
have stepped up their exports.

Not only does this international trade threaten bird
species in their homelands, but it also poses a serious
threat to domestic species in America and other im-
porting countries, the study points out.

To date, some 25 exotic species have become
established in the continental United States. The oldeSt of
these are the house sparrow and the EurOpean starling -
which were intentionally introduced in the 19th century by
homesick Europeans who missed familiar Species.

Similarly, a number of the tropical birds imported to the
United States are serious agricultural pests in their
homeland, the study claims. An example is the monk
parakeet. These birds spread throughout the Midwest in
the late 19605. Because of the monk parakeet’s
voraciousness, 13 Northeastern states cooperated in an
apparently successful parakeet eradiction program in
1973.

However, the rose-winged parakeet, a major ‘
agricultural pest in India, has established breeding ‘
populations in Florida. Their relatives, the canary-winged 1
parakeets, are thriving in San Francisco,

In 1973, the Fish and Wildlife Service/proposed far»
reaching. regulations that would ban import of all but five
species of exotic birds. This plan was attacked by pet '
industry forces, and the regulations were withdrawn. .
Four years later the Wildlife Service tried again. They
suggested adding four species to the regulations. Again
they were withdrawn after strenuous opposition.

 




. :‘x. . .r 1 , . . ,
K 121;)“: i' d .

 

 

 

11¢ C11 \1311 Science Mei“

BOSTON. MASS.
1).. awe

 

MAR 10 1981

 

 

By Barth J. Falkenberg, staff photographer

Birds like this cockatoo are paying the price for the exotic taste of bird fanciers around the world

Agriculture could be hurt

 

Exotic birds: report cites dangers of impOrts

By David F. Salisbury
Staff cerrespondent of The Christian Science Monitor
. Denver

It seems so harmless.

You drive down to your local pet shop and look over all
the brightly colored tropical birds. You buy one of these
exotic creatures, possibly for companionship or to impress
your friends.

Yet each such decision' 18 the tip of an iceberg — the end
point of a process that is decimating many bird popula-
tions in South America, Africa, and Asia. In addition, this
trade threatens the survival of a number of domestic spe-
cies of birds and could adversely affect agriculture in a
number of developed nations.

These damaging side effects of the international exotic
bird trade are spelled out 1n word and picture by “The Bird
Business,” a study conducted' by Greta Nilson for the
Animal Welfare Institute in Washington, DC

Drawing heavily on official statistics and sources and
quoting the concerns of well-known ornithologists, this
study draws a restrained but devastating picture of the
impact that the current world trade in birds is having.

“Within the past 20 years . . . bird dealers have created
a new demand for an ever-increasing variety of birds. . . .
To satisfy this new market. .world trade in wild birds
has recently amounted to a minimum of 7. 5 million birds
annually, ” the study reports.

The demand for some species has become so great that
a number are becoming rare in their native lands. The

. scarlet macaw in Central America and the mynah in
Thailand are examples of species currently suffering the"

effects of overhunting.

The demand for rare birds IS multiplied by the fact that
for every bird that makes it to a pet shop cage, at least five
others die in traps or shipping cages, Miss Nilson
estimates.

Despite regulations in countries such as the United

‘ States and Britain and some recent improvement, ship-

 

ping conditions remain inhumane. Large numbers of birds
are injured or killed by overcrowding, lack of food and
water, suffocation, and overheating, the study charges. ‘
Furthermore, many of the birds are unsuited to life in
cages and require specialized diets. As a result, many die

' after only a short time in captivity.

A number of countries have recognized this problem
and curtailed or banned exports of their rare and endan-
gered birds. In South and Central America, Colombia,
Bolivia, and Costa Rica have stopped all exports. In Asia,

India, Japan, Sri Lanka, Taiwan, and Indonesia have cur-
tailed exports. However, a number of other countries have
stepped up their exports. .

Not only does this internatiOnal trade threaten bird spe-
cies in their homelands, but it also poses a serious threat to

domestic ‘species in America and other importing coun-

tries, the study points out.

To date, some 25 exotic species have become estab-
lished in the continental US. The oldest of these are the
house sparrow and the European starling — which were
intentionally introduced in the 19th century by homesick
Europeans who missed familiar species Both haVe had a
negative impact on US agriculture and native US bird pop-
ulatiOns. Starlings, for example, drive woodpeckers and
Eastern bluebirds out of their nests and have been a major
factor 1n those birds’ decline.

Similarly, a number of the tropical birds imported to
the US are serious agricultural pests in their homeland,

the study claims. An example is the monk parakeet. These 2

birds spread throughout the Midwest in the late 19605.
Because of the monk parakeet’s voraciousness, 13

Northeastern states cooperated in an apparently success-

ful parakeet eradication program in 1973

However, the rose-winged parakeet, a major agricul-
tural pest in India, has established breeding p0pulations in
Florida. Their relatives, the canary-winged parakeets, are
thriving in San Francisco, where they could become a ma-
jor vineyard pest if they spread into nearby Napa Valley,
the study warns.

In 1975, the California Department of Agriculture esti-
mated that three imported species could cause as much as
$1.2 million annual damage to the state’s fruit, nut, and
grain crops.

Many of these birds also carry diseases, some of which
threaten the domestic poultry industry. This problem has
been recognized since the turn of the century, when
Congress passed “injurious wildlife regulations.” But only
five bird species are banned under these regulations and,
according to the Animal Welfare Institute study, several of
these have been imported despite this prohibition.

In 1973, the Fish and Wildlife Service proposed far-
reaching regulations that would ban import of all but five

 

Species of exotic birds. This plan was attacked by pet in- '

dustry forces, and the regulations were withdrawn. Four
years later the Wildlife Service tried again. They sug-
gested adding four species to the regulations. Again they

were withdrawn after strenuous opposition.




 

 

 

 

 

 

‘ , '5; .A
1 9; ‘;. l
. ' 'l
.t1

@er mm h
at,-..togsi

,mtﬁ‘ﬂ
{D 3.1-} .‘f‘i '4

me it“ 298%

(-,

Exotic

By DAVID F. SALISBURY
Christian Science Monitor News

DENVER, COLO. — It seems so
harmless.

You drive down to your local pet shop

and look over all the brightly colored
tropical birds. You buy one of these ex-
otic creatures, possibly for companion-
. ship or to impress your friends.
Yet each such decision is the tip of an
‘ iceberg —- the end point of a process
that is decimating many bird popula-
‘ tions in South America, Africa and
~ Asia. In addition, this trade threatens
' the survival of a number of domestic
species of birds and could adversely af-
~ fect agriculture in a number of
developed nations.

These damaging side effects of the in-
~ ternational exotic bird trade are spelled

out in word and picture by “The Bird
Business,” a study conducted by Greta
Nilson for the Animal Welfare Institute
in Washington, DC.

Drawing heavily on official statistics
and sources and quoting the concerns of
well-known ornithologists, this study

‘ draws a restrained but devastating. pic-
ture of the impact that the current
. world trade in birds is having.

“Within the" past 20 years...bird
dealers have created anew demand for
an ever-increasing variety of birds....
To satisfy this new market...world
trade in wild birds has recently

amounted to a minimum of 7.5 million ,

birds annually,” the study reports.

The demand for some species has
become so great that a number are
becoming rare in their native lands.

The scarlet macaw in Central America
‘ and the, mynah in Thailand are? ex-

; . amples- of species currently suffering

the effects of overhunting.

The demand for rare birds is

multiplied by the fact that for every
bird that makes it to a pet shop cage, at
least five others die in traps or shipping
cages, Miss Nilson estimated.
. Despite regulations in countries such
as the United States and Britain and
some recent improvement, shipping
conditions remain inhumane. Large
numbers of birds are injured or killed
by overcrowding, lack of food and
water, suffocation and overheating,”the
study charges.

Furthermore, many of the birds are
unsuited to life in cages and require
specialized diets. As a result, many die
after only a short time in captivity.

A number of countries have recogniz-
ed this problem and curtailed or banned
exports of their rare and. endangered
birds. In South and Central America,
Colombia, Bolivia and Costa Rica have
stopped all exports. In Asia, India,
Japan, Sri Lanka, Taiwan and In-
donesia have curtailed exports.
However, a number of other countries
have stepped up their exports.

Not only does this international trade
threaten bird species in their
homelands, but it also poses a serious
threat to domestic species in America
and other importing countries, the
study points out. '

To date, some 25 exotic species have
become established in the continental
United States. The oldest of these are
the house sparrow and the European
starling — which were intentionally in-
troduced in the 19th century by
homesick Europeans who missed
familiar species. Both have had a
negative impact on US. agriculture
and native U.S. bird populations. Starl-
ings, for example, drive woodpeckers
and Eastern bluebirds Out of their nests

‘ircls big threat

and have been a major factor in those
birds’ decline. .

Similarly, a number of the tropical
birds imported to the United States are
serious agricultural pests in their
homeland, the study claims. An exam-
ple is the monk parakeet. These. birds

,spread throughout the Midwest in the

late 19603. Because of the monk
parakeet’s voraciousness, 13 Nor-
theastern states cooperated in an ap-
parently successful parakeet eradiction
program in 1973.

However, the rose-winged parakeet,
a major agricultural pest in India, has
established breeding populations in
Florida. Their relatives, the canary-
winged parakeets, are thriVing in San
Francisco, where they could become a
major vineyard pest if they spread into
nearby Napa Valley, the study warns.

In 1975, the California Department of
Agriculture estimated that three im-
ported species could cause as much as
$1.2 million annual damage to the
state’s fruit, nut and grain crops.

Many of these birds also carry
diseases, some of which threaten the
domestic poultry industry. This pro-
blem has been recognized since the turn
of the century, when Congress passed
“injurious wildlife regulations.”

In 1973, the Fish and Wildlife Service
proposed far-reaching regulations that
would ban import of all but five species
of exotic birds. This plan was attacked
by pet industry forces, and the regula-
tions were withdrawn. Four years later
the Wildlife Service tried again. They
suggested adding four species to the
regulations. Again they were
withdrawn after strenuous opposition.

© 1981 The. Christian Science Publishing
Society

 

 

 

 

l
l

‘ l
l

1..

i
i

 




By DAVID F. SALISBURY‘
Christian Science Moni

DENVER, Colo. — It seems so ha ' ess. -
You drive down to'your- local pet shop and look
over all the [brightly colored tropical birds. You
. buy ,one of these exotic creatures, possibly for
companionship or to impress your friends. ‘ ~
Yet each such decision is the tip of an iceberg

. — the end point of a' process that is decimating .
many bird populations in South America, Africa ‘

and Asia., In addition, this trade threatens the
. survival of a number of domestic species of
birds and could adversely affect agriculture in a
number of develOped nations.

These damaging side effects of the interna-
tional exotic bird trade are spelled out in word
‘ and picture by “The Bird Business,” a study
conducted by Greta Nilson for the Mi%__ﬂgk
, fareingstimtgtein Washington, DC. , ‘ .

Drawing heavily on official statistics and .

sources and quoting the.,concems of well-known
ornithologists, this study draws a restrained but

devastating picture of the impact that the 'cur-

rent world trade in birds is having. ,
“Within the past 20 years bird dealers have

created a new demand for an ever-increasing

variety of birds To satisfy this new market
_ . __\ ,

 

 

Thisgtrade threatens the survival of a number

of’domestic species of birds and could I

adversely affect agriculture in

a number of developed nations.

 

world trade in wild birds has recently amounted
to a minimum of 7.5 million birds annually,” the
study reports, ‘ .

The demand for some species has become so
great that a number are becoming rare in their
native lands. The scarlet macaw in Central
America and the mynah in Thailand are exam-

ples of Species currently suffering the effects of

overhunting, . .
The demand for rare birds is multiplied by the
fact that for every bird that makesit to a pet
shop cage, at least five others die 1n traps or
shipping cages, Miss Nilson estimates.
. Despite regulations in countries such as the
United States and Britain and some recent im-

 

 

 

v—i
x

provements, shipping cpnditions remain inhu-
mane. Large numbers of birds are injured or
killed by. overcrowding, lack of food and water,
suffocation, and overheating, the study charges.

Furthermore, many of the birds are unsuited

to life in cages and require specialized diets. As

. a result, many die after only a short time in cap-

tivity. . '

A number of countries have recognized this
problem and curtailed» or banned exports of
their rare and endangered birds. In South and

,Central America, Colombia, Bolivia and Costa

Rica have stopped allexports. In Asia, India,
Japan, Sri Lanka, TaiWan and Indonesia have
curtailed exports. However, a number of other

I

.l.

countries have stepped up their exports.

Not only does this international trade threaten _ .,

bird species in their homelands, but it also poses
a serious threat to domestic species in America
and other importing countries, the study points
out. -

To date, some 25 exotic species have become

. established in thecontinental U.S. The oldest of

these are the"house sparrow and the European
starling — which were intentionally introduced
in the 19th century by homesick Europeans who
missed familiar species. Both have had a neg-
ative impact on U.S. agriculture and native U.S.
bird populations. Starlings, for example, drive
woodpeckers and Eastern bluebirds out of their
nests and have been a major factor in those

_ birds’ decline.

Similarly, a number of the tropical birds im-
ported to the U.S. are serious agricultural pests
in their homeland, the study claims. An example
is the monlg, parakeet. These birds spread
throughout the Midwest in the late 1960s. Be-
cause of the monk parakeet’s voraciousness, 13
Northeastern states cooperated in an apparent-
ly successful parakeet eradication " program in

. 1973.

However; the rose-winged parakeet, a major

 

 

‘ ’A‘ ’ 4N; 1“
V’

' Wildlife Service: .

 

u.-

agricultural pest in India, has established
breeding populations in Florida. Their relatives, .
the canary-winged parakeets, are thriving in
San Francisco, where they could become "a
major vineyard pest if they spread into nearby
N apa Valley, the study warns. . .
In 1975, the California Department of Agricul- "
ture estimated that three imported species
could cause as much as $1.2 million annual-
damage to the state’s fruit, nut and grain crops.
Many of these birds carry diseases, some of
which threaten the domestic poultry industry.

‘ This problem has been recognized since the turn
~ of the century, when Congress passed “injurious

wildlife regulations.” But only five‘bird species
are banned under these regulations and, accord-
ing to the Animal Welfare Institute study, sever-
al of these have been irnported despite this
prohibition. '

In 1973, the Fish and Wildlife Service proposed
far-reaching regulations that would ban import
of all but five species of" exotic birds. This plan
was attacked by pet industry forces, and the re?
gulations were withdrawn. Four years later the,

. .. ;:.;again-. Thor suggested 1
adding four spemesto ,the regulations. Again
they Were withdrawnafter' strenuous opposition.

 




 

 

 

 

 

--.a~afﬁl

!
i
a

'. F's»...

‘\ !i\‘\i 3_ l ‘3"?

‘ . y.,-”~\I

mm? 95 '

l

 

 

‘ MAR 3 O 1981’

DomeStic bi

By David F. Salisbury .
Christian Science Monitor News Service

DENVER, COLO.--It seems so
harmless. .

You drive to a pet shop and look
over all the brightly colored tropical
birds. You buy one of these exotic
creatures, possibly for companion-
ship‘or to impress your friends.

Yet each such decision is the tip of
an iceberg-the end point of a process

. , that is decimating bird populations in

. “The Bird BusineSs,” a study con?
ducted by Greta Nilson for the Ani:,__

South America, Africa and Asia. In
addition, this trade threatensthe sur-‘

vival of a number of domestic species ,

of birds and could adversely affect

agriculture in a number of developed '

nations.

These damaging side effects of the =

international exotic bird trade are
spelled out in word and picture by

mal Welfarg‘lns‘titute in Washington,
D13. , ' ‘ ‘
Drawing heavily on official statis-
tics and sources and quoting the con-
cerns of Well-known ornithologists,
this study ‘draws a restrained but
devastating picture of "the impact

_ , that the current.__world trade" in birds

' is having. ‘,
' - Becoming rare

“Within the past 20 years...bird 7

dealers have created a new demand
for an ever-increasing variety of

‘birds.... To~--satisfy this, new

market...world' trade in Wild birds
has recently amounted to aminimum
of 7.5 million birds annually,” the
study reports. .°

The demand for some species, has
become so great that a'number are
becoming rare in their native lands.
The scarlet macaw in Central Ameri.
ca and the mynah in Thailand are ex-
amples of species currently suffering
the effects of overhunting.

The demand for rare birds is mul- '

tiplied by the fact that for everybird
that makes. it to a pet shop cage, .at
least five others die in traps or ship-
ping cages, Miss Nilson estimated.
Despite regulations in countries
such as the United States and Britain
and some recent improvement, ship-
ping conditions remain inhumane.
Large numbers of birds are injured
or killed by overcrowding, lack of
food and water, suffocation and over-

- heating, the study charges.

Furthermore, many of the birds
are unsuited to life in cages and re-'
quire specialized Aiets. Asia result,

Federal regulations concernin

many die after only.;a short time in
captivity.

A number of countries have recog- I
- , .nized this problem and curtailed or
"‘ banned exports of their rare and en- .-

dangered birds. In South. and ’Central

America, Colombia, Bolivia and Cos- ' ‘

ta Rica have stopped all exports. In
Asia, India, Japan, Sri Lanka, Tai-
wan and Indonesia have curtailed ex-
ports. However, a number of other
countries have stepped up their ex-

ports. .
Threaten U.S. birds
Not only does this international
trade threaten bird species in their
homelands, but it also poses a serious

threat to domestic species in Ameri-

ca and other importing countries, the
Study points out.

To date, some 25 exotic species
have become established in the conti-
nental United States. The oldest“ of
these are the house sparrow and the
European starling—-which were inten-
tionally intrdduced in the 19th centu-
ry by homesick Europeans Who
missed familiar species. Both have
had a negativeimpact on US. agri-
culture and native U.S.t bird popula’

‘tions..Starlings, for example, drive . ?

woodpeckers and Eastern bluebirds
out of their nests and have been a ma-
jor factor in those birds’ decline.

Similarly, a number of the tropi- "V
calbirds imported to the United ,- ’

States are serious agricultural pests

' in their homeland, the study claims:
" "' “ “""“ 415. the-monk. parakeet- _
\thrgugho’ut that" .

  

g imported bi
have been opposed by the pet industry g

       

rds, like this A} katoo,

dia, has-established bree' ng popula-
tions in Florida. Their r .. tives, the
canary-winged parakeet are thriv-
ing in San

,..sm'*"*‘” 1‘” ‘ V

  

Francisco, ' here they _

' I ' orts

could become a major vineyard pest
if they spread into nearby Napa Val-
ley, the study warns. ‘

In 1975, the California Department
of Agriculture estimated that three
imported species Could cause as
much as $1.2 million annual damage
to the state’s fruit, nut and grain
crops... ,

Many of these birds also carry di-
seases, some of which threaten the
domestic poultry industry. This prob-
lem has been recognized since the
turn of the century, when Congress
passed “injurious wildlife regula-
tions.” But only five bird species are
banned under these regulations and,
according to the Animal Welfare In-
stitute study, several of these have
been imported despite this prohibi-
tion.

" In 1973, the Fish andWildlife Ser-
vice proposed far-reaching regula-
tions that would ban import of all but
five species of exotic birds. This plan
was attacked by pet industry forces,

,. wager-:15-

and the regulations were withdrawn.

Four years later the Wildlife. Service
tried again. They suggested adding
four species to the regulations. Again
they were withdrawn after strenuous
opposition.

 

 

 

 




 

 

MAR i1 9 19°81 ’1

 

 

 

 

 

 

Agriculturecould be hur1 4‘ .  

Bi; 3 face danger

' By DAVID F. SALISBURY
Staff correspondent of
The Christian Science Monitor

DENVER — It seems so harmless.

You driVe down to your local pet shop and look over all
the brightly colored tropical birds. You buy one of these
exotic creatures, possibly for companionship or to 1mpress

your friends. ,

Yet each such decision 1s the tip of an iceberg —- the end

, point of a process that IS decimating many bird populations
in South America, Africa and Asia. In addition, this trade
threatens the survival of a number of domestic species of
,birds and could adversely affect agriculture 1n a number of
developed nations. ,

These damaging Side effects of the international exotic
. bird trade are spelled out in word and picture by “The Bird

Business,” a study conducted by Greta Nilson for the
Anlmal Welfare Institute in Washington, D. C.

Drawmg heavﬂy on official statistics and sources and
, quoting the concerns of well— known ornithologists, this
study draws a restrained but devastating picture of the
impact that the current world trade 1n birds 1s having.

“Within the past 20 years. .bird dealers have created a
new demand for an ever-increasing variety of birds” To
satisfy this near market .world trade 1n wild birds has
recently amounted to a minimum of 7. 5 million birds an-.
nually,’.’ the study reports. '

The demand for some species has become so great that a

scarlet macaw in Central America and the mynah in
Thailand are examples of species currently Suffering the
effects of overhunting. ‘
The demand f0r rare birds' 18 multiplied by the fact that
- for every bird that makes it to a pet shot cage, at least five
‘others die in traps or shipping cages, Miss Nilson
estimates.
Despite regulations in countries such as the United
' States and Britain and some recent improvement, shipping
conditions remain inhumane. Large numbers of birds are
injured or killed by Overcrowding, lack of food and water,
suffocation, and overheating, the study charges.

Furthermore, many of the birds are unsuited to life in‘

cages and require specialized diets. As a result, many die
after only a short time 1n captivity.

A number of countries have recognized this problem and
curtailed or banned exports of their rare and endangered

birds. In South and Central America, Colombia, Bolivia ,

 

and Costa Rica have stopped all eXports. In Asia, India,

threat to domestic species in America and other importing ?

agricultural pest in India,‘ has established breeding
become a major vineyard pest if they spread into nearby.
number are becoming rare in their‘natiVe lands. The“

, estimated that three imported species could cause as much

. dustry forces, and the regulations were withdrawn. Four

Japan, Sri Lanka, Taiwan and Indonesia have curtailed
exports. However, a number of other countries have
stepped up their exports. ,

Not only does this international trade threaten bird
species in their homelands, but it also poses a serious

countries, the study points out.

To date, some 25 exotic species have become established
in the continental U. S. The oldest of these are the house
sparrow and the European starling —- which Were in- '
tentionally introduced in the 19th century by homesick .
Europeans who missed familiar species. Both have had a
negative impact on U ..S agriculture and native U. S. bird
populations. Starlings, for example, drive woodpeckers
and Eastern bluebirds out of their nests and have been a ‘
major factor 1n those birds’ decline.

Similarly, a number of the tropical birds imported to the .
U. S. are serious agricultural pests in their homeland, the
study claims. An example is the monk parakeet. These-
birds, spread throughout the Midwest in the late 1960s. .
Because of the monk parakeet’s voraciousness, 13 Nor-
theastern states cooperated in an apparently successful
parakeet eradication program in 1973. . ,

However, the rose-winged parakeet, , a. majOr

populations in Florida. Their relatives, the canary-winged
parakeets, are thriVing 1n San Francisco, where they chuld .-

Napa Valley, the studyWarns: '-' ~ 1
In 1975, the California Department of Agriculture

as $1.2 million annual damage to the state’ s fruit, nut and
grain crops.

Many of these birds also carry diseases, some of which .
threaten the domestic poultry industry. This problem has
been recognized since the turn 'of the century. when,
Congress passed “injurious wildlife regulations.” But only _
five bird species are banned under these regulations and, .

according to the Animal Welfare Institute study, several
of these have been imported despite this prohibition. ,

In 1973, the Fish and Wildlife Service proposed far-
reaching regulations that would ban import of all but five
species of exotic birds. This plan was attacked by pet in-

years later the Wildlife Service tried again. They
suggested adding four species to the regulations. Again
they were withdrawn after strenuous opposition. -

 

Cockatoo: Endangered species

(CSM Photo) ‘

 

 




 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
PO. Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007

 

 

Please send me one free copy of "The Bird Business: A Study
of the Commercial Cage Bird Trade."

N ame

 

Address

 

Street
City State

Professional Affiliation

 

 




1

ﬁg.

C: l...
i «so».
mvr‘. ‘

 

"Q
,,.‘.

A

I

M -' E33
w-

’31“:

5

W CANAAN
ADVERTISER
5 940

1'
.k

3

w

7

12»

I1“

0

o

N a?
N .
w

v

“Q %
MIA-k " ‘
4"

 

 




\ .

l W 3}, _, if“? «7V1 J
’9‘ mil i t {fist} i“ :‘t‘ ,1 ..
The Houston Poss,
HOUSTON, TEXAS
n. 299.546 SUN. 359423

MAR 2 1 1981

#41.

 

 

 

l

 

'7 n»-
, “it: 25 / "7
.a‘dﬁ‘i‘ti§°.?9"??¥?mm

 

it epENVER -- It seems so harmless.

" . 7 You drive doWn to your local pet shop
2 1b01:11:33.1 look over the brightly colored tropi-
,cl birds. You buy one of these exotic
"icreatures, possibly for companionship or
. to‘impress your friends.

13%}I«..Y.et each such decision is the tip of an
igceberg :— the end point of a process that
,-is decimating many bird populations in
.1; $111.11 America, Africa and Asia. In addi-
‘. don; this trade threatens the survival of

* .a. number of domestic species of birds '

(”‘1 L ‘1’

”and could adversely affect agriculture in

t- 3'afnumber of developed nations.
1...,1.,‘;.Th'ese damaging side effects of the
"international exotic bird trade are spell-
ed out in word and picture by The Bird

'mﬁusiness, a study conddcted by Greta

13
I
l

'ii‘iiftbnawmo ON OFFICIAL» statistics

:gdd Sources and quoting'the concerns of
aiiigellI-known ornithologists, this study
"‘ draWS a restrained but devastating pic-
ture of the impact that trade in birds is
‘iz’ihavingv ' . ,
nix..2"*,‘World trade in wild birds has recent-
?le‘amOunted to a minimum of 7.5 million.
’Jib‘iz‘d‘s annually,” the study reports.

U“??? The demand for some species has be-
iiii’come so great that a number, are becom-
1d iirfgi-‘irart’é in their native lands. The scar—

  
   
  

' let macaw in Central America and the -

. mynah in Thailand are suffering effects
" Tiof‘EiVerhunting. ‘ ' .
firPTh-e demand for rare birds is multi-
31 d "by‘the fact that for every bird that
,9 ﬂ dike-sit to a pet shop cage, at least five
‘Jfoihe‘rs “die in traps or shipping cages, Nil-

4 .

993311 estimated. ,

XV,

«an

fi‘ansv-‘FITE REGULATIONS in coun-
tries such as the United States and Brit-
germane some recent improvement,
gf§hipping cOnditions remain inhumane.
’miidrgenumbers of birds are injured or

 

 

léﬁiilled by overcrowding, lack of food and .

QFWater,’ suffocation and overheating, the
J1‘r's't‘ddycharges. ‘ . .

Furthermore, many of the birds are

' unsuited to life in cages and require spe-

'only a short time in captivity.
Ainumber of countries have recog-

e
if ..»

 

 

 

125131113911 for the Animal _ elfare Institute _
.igéﬁgﬂashington, ﬁll. ' :"""""""'""""""""“

cial diets. As a result, many die after 7

Exotic cockatoo comes in for a landing

-—‘Monitor photo

_ levastating results
of exotic bird trade
 + felt all over world .

nized this prOblem and curtailed or ban-
ned exports of their rare and endangeredi
birds. However, a number of other coun-
tries have stepped ,up their exports.

NOT ONLY DOES THIS international
trade threaten bird species in their
homelands, but it also poses a serious
threat to domestic species in America

‘ and other importing countries, the study

points out.

To" date, Some 25 exotic species have
become established in the continental
United States. The oldest of these are the
house sparrow and the European starling
—— which were intentionally introduced in
the 19th century by homesick Europeans

- who missed familiar species. Both have

had a negative impact on US. agricul-
ture and native U.S. bird populations.
Starlings, for example, driVe woodpeck-
ers and Eastern bluebirds out of their
nests and have been a major factor in
those birds’ decline.

Similarly, a number of the tropical
birds. imported to the United States are
serious agricultural. pests in their home-
land, the study claims. An - example is
the monk parakeet. These birds spread
throughout the Midwest in the late 1960s.
Because of the monk parakeet’s vora-
ciousness, 13 northeastern states cooper-
ated in an apparently successful para--
keet eradication program in 1973. "

HOWEVER, THE ROSE-WINGED
parakeet, a major agricultural pest in'
India, has established breeding popula-
tions in Florida. Their relatives, the
canary-winged parakeets, are thriving in
San Francisco, Where they could become
a major vineyard pest if they spread into
nearby Napa Valley, the study warns.

Many ' of these birds also carry dis-

. eases,st)me of which threaten the domes-

tic poultry industry.

In 1973, the Fish and Wildlife Service
proposed far—reaching regulations that
would ban import of all but five species
of exotic birds. This plan was attacked
by pet industry forces, and the regula-
tions were withdrawn. Four years later
the Wildlife Service tried again. They
suggested adding four species to the
regulations. Again they were withdrawn
after strenuous opposition.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

f“, r“?! z ‘rfg . Ethi 3
£2“? '_ g was." II." 2“ #9 , j? 1w!"
3‘ a . #4.. 3-,, 54‘5“”,azﬂné 1‘ 1 (”1

- ;, 3 “L ‘, U -' .' . ",r‘-.

,u
~.

 

.iﬂ“

 

 

By" David F. Salisbury
Christian Science Monitor ,1 ,
DENVER, COLO.-—-It seems So harmless.

You drive down to your local” pet shOp and I

look over all the\brightly colored tropical birds.
You buy one of these exotic creatures,» possibly
for companionship or to impress your friends.
Yet each such decision is I, the tip; of an ice—
berg—the end point of a process that is decimat-
ing many bird populations in South America, Afri-
ca? and Asia. In addition, this trade threatens the
surv‘iVal of a‘number of domestic species of birds
and could' adverSely affect agriculture‘in a num-.
her of developed nations.- . . .» = ,

13..

 

These damaging side effects of the internas

tional

ducted by Greta‘Nilson for the
"Institu .e in: ashington, D.C. ‘ , , ' , .
'i-aWing heavily- on official statistics and
sources and quoting the‘ concerns of ,well-knoWn
ornithologists, this study draws a restrained but
devastating picture of. the impact that thecurrent
wOrld trade inkbirds‘ is having. ._
“Within the past 20 years . . . bird dealers
have created a new demand for an ever—increas-
ing variety of birds . . . To satisfy this new market

  

$9.3. . fare

. . . world trade in wild birds has recently amount-,
ed to a minimum of 7.5 millibn birds annually]?

the study reports. . t
The demandfor some speCies has become so
great that a number are becoming rare in their
native lands. The scarlet macaw in CentralAmeb
ica and the mynah in Thailand are examples of
species currently suffering the effects of over-
hunting. _ ‘ i I
The demand for rare birds is multiplied by
the fact that far every bird that makes it to a pet
Shop cage, at least five others die in traps or
shipping cages, Miss Nilson estimated. , j -
. Despite regulations in countries such as the
United States and

birds are injured or killed by
overcrowding, lack of food and water, suffocation

and overheating, the study charges.

1 f‘ - Furthermore, many of. the birds are unsuited
to. life in cages and require specialized diets. As a

ity.

problem and curtailed or banned exports of their
rare and endangered birds. In South and‘Central

exotic bird trade are spelled out in word
and picture by “The Bird Business,” a study con~

.«‘established in thecontinental ,
coldest of these ,are the house sparrow and them
EurOpean starling-—which were intentionally in-

ﬂichegative impact on US.

, i

, Britain and some recent ’im»
provement, shipping. conditions remain inhumane. ;
, Large numbers of

result, many die after only a short time in captiv-'

,‘ A number of countries have recognized this,

 

 

_A._'

 

i ‘%

 

2
i

po‘rted exotic? birds Jbeco as a dangerous business _ 

"fAme‘rica, Colombia, Bolivia and Costa Rica have

stopped .all exports. In Asia, India, Japan, Sri
~Lanka, Taiwan
'ports. However, a number of other countries have
stepped up their exports.

Not only does this international trade threat-
en bird species in their homelands, but it also
,poses a serious threat to domestic species-

To date, some 25 exotic species have become
United States. The

zitroduced in the 19th century by homesick EurOpe-
igians who missed familiar species. Both have had a
" agriculture and native
Starlings, for example,
Eastern bluebirds, out of
their nests and have been a major factor in those
$irds’ decline. ‘ ‘ ‘ ' ‘

US bird populations.
fdrive woodpeckers and

and Indonesia have curtailed 'ex?

canary-winged parakeets,

 

«My-Wt”

Similarly, a number of the tropical birds
imported to the United States are serious agriCul-
tural‘ pests in their homeland, the study claims.
An eXample is the monk parakeet. These birds
spreadth‘roughout the Midwest in the late 19603.
Because of the monk parakeet’s voraciousness, 13
Northeastern states c00perated in an apparently
successful parakeet eradiction program—in 1973. -

However, the rose-winged parakeet, a major
agricultUral pest in India, has established breed-
ing ' p0pulations. in Florida. Their relatives, the\-
are thriving in;_San
Francisco, where they could become a major
vineyard pest if they. Spread into nearby Napa
Valley, the, study warns. ‘ . , ,

’ In 1975, the California Department of Agri-
culture estimated that three impdrted species
could cause as much as $1.2 million annual dam-
age to the state’s fruit, nut and grain crops.

 

‘1‘.)

 

 

  

 




 

~_..———————————‘——\‘

W'

i
. , «QM ..
‘ r * W ‘ t, g {3 £14.!) 3%....»
“ , ~ ,* ' l e
. ‘ L .L ., A!
. o .‘ . w ‘1 ‘

FRAMltl-GllAM, Miss.
MIDDLESEX NEWS
D. 4%}7 SUN. 47%

 

 

MAR 2? ‘98!“

 

 

 

.

 

   

(Photo Separation by Steve Case) 'i ' _ ‘ i
ENDANGERED —+ .A visit to a recent weston
pet _show confirmed the fact that many

j ‘ owners such as the one pictured above really in'their native lands. ,

‘ _ shop and look over a

in.-
\ .‘.

. agriculture .in. a number of
‘ developed nations.

         
   

(News Color l5hoto by Richard Senn, ’

love their birds but evidence‘shows that pe:
suppliers may be sorely depleting bird specie

.. »e 1

 

 

. . .2 ii 7 . ‘ ‘
By DAVID F. SALISBURY ,

‘ Christian Science Monitor
. It seems so harmless.

You drive down to your local pet

I the brightly

colored tropical birds. You buy one V
of these exotic creatures, possibly
for companionship or to impress
your friends. ... ‘ - _
,zYeteach such deciSion is the tip
of aniceberg -i the end point of a
process,- that is decimating-many

 

trade threatens the survival. of a
number of , domestic species of
birds. and could adversely affect

.These damaging side effeCts of
the international exotic bird trade.
are spelled outin Word and picture
by “The Bird Business,” a study

’ ‘conducted by Greta Nilson for the

Animal Welf 1r petunia in
as ng‘ on, _.C.
Drawing heavily on- official
statistics and sources ‘ and uoting

. the conCerns of well- nown
.. ornithologists, this study draws a
- restrained but. devastating picture

of the impact that the current'é
world trade in birds is having. '

Ifdjpopiil‘ations‘ in: South I'America; - - ‘ ’
Africa and A'Sia. In addition, this

 

,e-011t,eX0tiC _

' '. sparrow, "and the ; EurOpean.

starling—whi'ch were intentionally

introduced in the 19th century by,

homesick Europeans who ”missed
familiar species. Both have had a
negative impact on US.
agriculture and native US. bird
populations, Starlings, for

example, drive woodpeckers and ~

Eastern bluebirds out of their nests

and have been a major factor in

those birds’ decline.

tropical birds imported 'to the

United. States ' are serious:
agricultural pests .. in their
hameland, the study claims. An.
. example is. the monk parakeet.

These birds spread throughout- the.

Midwest in the late 19605. Because .
‘Of the monk parakeet’s,
voraciousness, 13 Northeastern

states cooperated in an apparently
successful parakeet eradiction
program in 1973.

However, the rose-winged
parakeet, a. majoi' agricultural
Best in India, 7, has established
reeding populations in Florida.
Their relatives, the canary-winged

parakeets," are thriving in San
Francisco, where they, could

 

 
     
  

f‘Wl [ii-gtheapas't 20 years...bird 1

' ete

   
  

 

‘ ports <
the demand fOr seine species.

 

 

"Similarly," ‘ a- number of I the

strenuous opposition. . ,. ‘

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 

 

.’D.‘
32-.

_  i re pet shops hel oing ,

 

become a major Vineyard pest; if ..
they spread into nearby Napa

Valley, the study warns. '

-' In 197.5, the California
Department of {Agriculture
estimated» that “three imported
. species could cau’Se as much as $1.2

‘-

-million annual damage, to the-

st‘atefsfruit, nut and grain crops. '

' T Many; ‘Of these birds also 93m-
_- diseases, some , of which; threaten

the domestic poultry industry. This «

ezproblemhas: eensrecogfnizedisince .. ..:‘
> the turn of the century, when ‘

Congress passed “injurious

wildlife regulations .,”? But only five

these regulations and, 'accOrdi-ng to

, bird [Species are banned under - e

the Animal Welfare InstituteStudy, ‘ '

several of these have been
imported despite this prohibition.
' In ; 1973, the Fish and Wildlife

Service proposed far-reaChing ‘A

regulations that would ban import
of all but fiVe‘ species of exotic

birds. This plan was attacked by

pet industry afarces, and the
regulations were withdrawn. Four

years later the]? Wildlife Service

tried again. They suggeSted adding
four species to the regulations.
Again they were withdrawn after

”we, . ' '.
*“Ww-w— -m»~..w

u— .u..-._‘ -‘ “q“,h.

 

 

wvaeitn Mun ”nu-nu «an

. has become so great that a nutriber
. are becoming, rare'in their native»
lands. The scarlet macaw in
, ”Central America and the mynah. in‘
Thailand are examples of spec1es
currently suffering the effects of
overhunting.‘ g . .
The demand for rare birds 18
multiplied by the fact that for
. every bird that makes 4' it to a_ pet
‘ shop cage, at least five others die in .
. traps or shipping cages, MISS.
' N-ilSon estimated. , - .- .
Despite regulations in countries
' such as -the United States and
' Britain and some recent
" improvement, shipping conditions
remain inhumane. Large numbers
of birds are iniured. or killed by
oVercrOwding, ack of food and
Water, suffocation and
overheating, the study charges. ' '
' Furthermore, many of the birds
. are unsuited to life in. cages and
‘ require specialized: (11628: As a
result, many die after only a short
time in ca tivi-ty. '. . v
A num er of countries have
recogniZed this ._ problem and
- curtailed‘or banned expOrts of their
rare and endangered birds._ _ In 7
‘ Sauth and Central America,
Colombia, Bolivia and Costa Rica
have stopped all exports. In As1a,‘
India, Japan, Sri ~Lanka,‘ Taiwan
and Indonesia have curtailed

exports. However, a number of
other countries have stepped up
their exports; 4:.- ‘ .

, Not only does this international
trade threaten bird spec1es in their
homelands, but it also. poses. a
serious threat to domestic species
in America and other importing
countries, the study: pomts'out. . ,

To date, some 25 eXot‘ic species
have become established in the
continental United. States The
oldest Of these are the house

L/i/ﬂ/

 




 

 

V THE CHRISTIAN SClENCE MONlTOR

Midsummer strike

by postal unions?

Wages averaging $19,000
are key issue; workers
also fret about job security

By Ed Townsend
Labor correspondent of The Christian Science Monitor

Difficult labor negotiations are just ahead for the US
Postal Service and unions representing 570,000 workers.

Although it is illegal to strike against the Postal Service, a
branch of the federal government, there are rumblings of
walkouts around the country this summer if new contracts .
are not signed by a July 20 deadline.

Negotiations will get under way in April, but lines are
already being drawn taut.

Postmaster General William F. Bolger called on unions
“to pursue a policy of moderation in this year’s collective
bargaining.” He noted in a Washington National Press Club
speech recently that postal workers averaged $19,000 a year
in wages — $22,000 iffringe benefits are added in —— and that
“it is no secret that some people consider postal employees
overcompensated.” ‘

His principal adversary in bargaining, Moe Biller, presi-
dent of the 250,000-member American Postal Workers Union,
said the unions bargaining with the Postal Service not only
want improved wages, including an unlimited cost-of-living
adjustment plan, but also must be assured in new contracts
that postal workers will be treated with “dignity and
respect” on the .job.

Meanwhile, a threatened split in union ranks could add to
bargaining problems. Mail handlers, in one branch of the
Laborers Union, are unhappy about the strike threats and

militant stances of the Postal Workers and Letter Carriers ‘

and could break away from the solid front usually put to-
gether by unions in postal bargaining. If there is a division,
negotiating a contract that will satisfy everyone will be
difficult.

Again this year, bargaining will be shadowed by public
and government dissatisfaction with the operatiOn of the
Postal Service. Its efficiency in delivering the mail is under
increasing criticism. Its costs have so escalated that first-
class stamps may soon go up from 15 cents to 18 cents and
Saturday service may be ended.

Mr. Bolger, urging a moderation of demands, says union
officials appear “unaware of the financial condition of the
Postal Service” and of the harsh realities of the national
economy.

The aggressive Mr. Biller, who last year challenged in-
cumbent Emmet Andrews for the presidency of the Postal

 

‘l’m not in office to bargain with a chip
on my shoulder, but I don’t like the
antiunion tactics of the present postal
administration.’

—_ Moe Bil/er, postal union president

 

Workers and won overwhelmingly with a pledge of tougher
bargaining, accuses the Postal Service of harassing of work-
ers by supervisors, inadequate concern for the safety of em-
ployees in automated operations, productivity changes de-
signed to reduce labor costs by eliminating workers, and
“inadequate” compensation. -

He says: “I’m not in office to bargain with a chip on my
shoulder, but I don’t like the anti’union tactics of the present
postal administration, and I don’t want a repeat of the 1978
contract disaster.”

Three years ago the previous union administration settled
on contract terms that many postal workers had repudiated
as unsatisfactory. Some struck illegally in New Jersey and
California and were dismissed. Biller wants them reinstated.

He recently warned that if labor’s demands are not met, -

workers will use their “weapon of last resort” — strike ac-
tion. In retort, the postmaster general says, “This nation
cannot tolerate a postal work stoppage.” If one is scheduled,
he adds, he will use all legal means possible to prevent it.

The Postal Service is prdposing further automation of
mail sorting and other operations. Bolger has forecast sav-
ings by 1986 of $500 million a year as a result of automation
and has said that he hopes to reduce the postal work force by
60,000 employees before 1990, but through attrition rather

' than layoffs.

Biller has attacked the planned expansion of automation,
including a nine-digit ZIP code, as “phony boondoggles,” and
he is suggesting to members of the union that they not coop-
erate with such changes until there are firm assurances that
no jobs will be eliminated.

 

 

Tuesday, March to, 1981 , ., - « \ . . . . .

 

Birds like this cockatoo are paying the price for the exotic taste of bird fanciers around the world

Agriculture could be hurt

 

By Barth J. Falkenberg, staff photographer

 

Exotic birds: report cites dangers of imports

By David F. Salisbury
Staff correspondent of The Christian Science Monitor
Denver
It seems so harmless.

You drive down to your local pet shop and look over all
the brightly colored tropical birds. You buy one of these
exotic creatures, possibly for companionship or to impress
your friends.

Yet each such decision is the tip of an iceberg — the end
point of a process that is decimating many bird popula-
tions in South America, Africa, and Asia. In addition. this
trade threatens the survival of a number of domestic spe-
cies of birds and could adversely affect agriculture in a
number of developed nations. ,

These damaging side effects of the international exotic
bird trade are spelled out in word and picture by “The Bird
Business,” a study conducted by Greta Nilson for the
Animal Welfare Institute in Washington, DC

Drawing heavily on official statistics and sources and
quoting the concerns of well-known ornithologists, this
study draws a restrained but devastating picture of the
impact that the current world trade in birds is having.

“Within the past 20 years . . . bird dealers have created
a new demand for an ever-increasing variety of birds. . . .
To satisfy this new market . . . world trade in wild birds
has recently amounted to a minimum of 7.5 million birds
annually,” the study reports.

The demand for some species has become so great that
a number are becoming rare in their native lands. The

‘ scarlet macaw in Central America and the mynah in

Thailand are examples of species currently suffering the
effects of overhunting.

_ The demand for rare birds is multiplied by the fact that
for every bird that makes it to a pet shop cage, at least five
others die in traps or shipping cages, Miss Nilson
estimates. .

Despite regulations in countries such as the United
States and Britain and some recent improvement, ship-
ping conditions remain inhumane. Large numbers of birds
are injured 'or killed by overcrowding, lack of food and
water, suffocation, and overheating, the study charges.

Furthermore, many of the birds are unsuited to life in
cages and require specialized diets. As a result, many die
after only a short time in captivity.

A number of countries have recognized this problem
and curtailed or banned exports of their rare and endan-
gered birds. In South and Central America, Colombia,
Bolivia, and Costa ,Rica have stopped all exports. In Asia,

4
I N .‘WN" _ . _ . _ . -. . ‘ A. ”A. -N ,. ._ ., . __. _ ,‘N-_ ._._A_._.A« .. _.

" \‘r—vvﬂm p". _ h. . . I 4 .‘ _ I... WE“..-

 

India, Japan, Sri Lanka, Taiwan, and Indonesia have cur-
tailed exports. However, a number of other countries have
stepped up their exports.

Not only does this international trade threaten bird spe-
cies in their homelands, but it also poses a serious threat to
domestic species in America and other importing coun-
tries, the study points out.

To date, some 25 exotic species have become estab-
lished in the continental US. The oldest of these are the
house sparrow and the European starling — which were
intentionally introduced in the 19th century by homesick
Europeans who missed familiar species. Both, have had a
negative impact on US agriculture and native _US bird pop-
ulations. Starlings, for example, drive woodpeckers and
Eastern bluebirds out of their nests and have been a major
factor in those birds’ decline.

Similarly, a number of the tropical birds imported to
the US are serious agricultural pests in their homeland,
the study claims. An example is the monk parakeet. These
birds spread throughout the Midwest in the late 19605.
Because of the monk parakeet’s voraciousness, 13
Northeastern states cooperated in an apparently success- .
ful parakeet eradication program in 1973.

However, the rose-winged parakeet, a major agricul-
tural pest in India, has established breeding populations in
Florida. Their relatives, the canary-winged parakeets, are
thrivingin San Francisco, where they could become a ma-
jor vineyard pest if they spread into nearby Napa Valley,
the study warns.

In 1975, the California Department of Agriculture esti-
mated that three imported species could cause as much as
$1.2 million annual damage to the state’s fruit, nut, and
grain crops. ‘

Many of these birds also carry diseases, some of which
threaten the domestic poultry industry. This problem has
been recognized since the turn of the century, when
Congress passed “injurious wildlife regulations.” But only
five bird species are banned under these regulations and,
according to the Animal Welfare Institute study, several of
these have been imported despite this prohibition.

In 1973, the Fish and Wildlife Service proposed far-
reaching regulations that would ban import of all but five
species of exotic birds. This plan was attacked by pet in-
dustry forces, and the regulations were withdrawn. Four
years later the Wildlife Service tried again. They sug-
gested adding four species to the regulations. Again they -
were withdrawn after strenuous opposition.

 

 

it...

Nwwe—CWN-‘w




 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
PO. Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007

 

 

Please send me one free copy of "The Bird Business: A Study
of the Commercial Cage Bird Trade."

Name

 

Address

 

 

City

Professional Affiliation

 

 




   
     
     
 

   

March 12, 1981

Mr. John Gleiber

Animal Welfare Institute of Washington, D.C.
P.O. Box 3650

Washington, D. C. 20007

    
          
  
   
   
  
  
   
 
     
     
       
    

Dear Mr. Gleiber:

Re; Your telephone request of March 12, 1981

 

We are pleased to give you permission to reprint the article
listed below which appeared in The Christian Science Monitor. It
is our understanding that you wish to use this material in a mailing

 

to persons in your area.

"Exotic birds: report cites dangers of imports."
by David Salisbury, March 10, 1981, page 3.

Please give credit to the authorOia) and the following credit to
the Monitor:

Reprinted by permission from The Christian Science Monitor
© 1981 The Christian Science Publishing Society
AllrighUSreserved

Cordially yours,

“\ .. ‘-
‘T’j 7;, " 2 : 7 ' \x
A (Z Zité 46% / ’ (1364:: afféi/LAIﬁ/T
. 1'"z”

(’Mrs.) Kathleen W. Allison
COpyright and Trademark
Administrator

ONE NORWAY STREET, BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS, USA. 02115, TELEPHONE (617) 262—2300, CABLE MONITOR BOSTON




._..._..._.~..... -”-_..._.. ~..~.-—~—

- ...- ._.....—.—- ._.. - -v-...

.-.. —_—-—~—-._.—-—'.—-

. > 4
.I o , l
o

i . l
l 4 '

NEW DELHI. March 2 --_ India
seems to be heading the dubious
list 0! exporters of wild birds——
birds whlcn. utter a long ordeal re-
sulting in thousands oi casualties,
end up lnthe fashionable drawing
rooms of the West at fancy prices.

The mum-million dollar opera—
tion involves the trapping of an
estimated 1.5 million birds every
_ear from the jungles of Asia,
Africa and Lean AmerlCn. India’s
contribution is out at 1.85 million.
that anyway was the average over
a seven-year rind ending 1976,
iigures for which are available.

Surely, there is big money, but
not for the local trapper. A 'ng-
necked Parakeet, which fetches the
indian trapper about Re 1. is put
up on the British show window»;
and the price tag reads the equi-
vaient of Rs 225. Many common
birds appreciate in value by even
200 times.

The world bird trade has
graphically-catalogued by Greta
Niisson in a study under the nus--
pices of Washington‘s Animal Web
iare institute. The account of the
indian scenario has been provided
by Tim lnsitipp.

The study pointer out that 4:0 per
cent of the trapped birds die dur-
ing the journey from capture to
the expo-rt stations. Many of the
survivors are eagerly grabbed by

been

= the US pet-chains. The most ponti-

glar and lucrative of the birds

in

this $100 m'ﬁillon annual retail

sales are invariably parrots.

blue
dot
‘ at

i
l
i
2
l
l
i
l
l
l
l
l
l

l
i
l
i
i
i

.furt'ner north
|exported were

’l‘l . huge returnsweuch as the
and yeilow .‘ziacaw, trapped
4 in South America and sold
.3CU at the US storey—nave
onl;m spanned large-scale smug-
gling. Birds conceoic' in sprite
tire wells, vases and car door
ancls find their way into the U55.
.iany smuggled birds also harbour
tiie Exotic Newcastle disease, a big
threat. to poultry industry.

'lhe predominant destination of
indiun birds, however, is Japan ind
not the US. About 41 per c of
the l3 million birds exoorted from
lndiu during 1970-78 went to Japan.
in tact. Japan depended on indm
for a iourth of its requirement of
wild birds. ltaly. France, Belgium
‘nd the LS followed Japan.

(M the 1,160 species of birds re-
corded in lndia. 239 have been
identified As exported since 1970.
ilurring is ‘w‘lnitt‘ Visitors from
in Asia, all species
ones breeding in
india. Since 1970, bird dealers are
sari to have cdvertised 2'17 Indian
species (or sale in the UK.

Although the majority of the
indian birds exported were widely-

n?
Al»

' distributed. such as the red awidu-

vat and black-headed niniinxkin.
some uncommon or even rare and
protected species had also been

' involved, according to Tim inskipp.

-_ . _......_—... 1...... ~—-—...._...—.— -

c .. -. --...--.

The situation in respect of protect-
ed species may have improved Wlin
lndia ratifying the Convention on
International Trade in Endanger-
ed Species in July 1976. but this is
onlv in respect oi normal exoorts.
One has no clue to the extent at
smuggling; in these rare spcmes.
The study also points to ottemozs
at hoodwizilrlng authorities. A. par-
ticuiar c::n:u;nment of the on-
v11ciii'4ercd eggs-it falcons, bound for
West Germany, had been foiscl‘;
declared 5s "ravens", presumably to
18"“:2V8 the Indian nuthoritier-
Another controversial pray-4’38
reportediy omnioyc'i by Indian vi.
Gert—2") is dyeing in! oirda, the 1.1.34

" ‘ ’ uiilliT'EuJ

no "..':

, ig .. money in hﬂ‘i

By SfRa‘jagOpnlan

. ‘ H if - .. ‘ i .4 1 . i :
~.< 1g 5 . ._ , K. "M, r}. ‘ ,_ 1‘
. ‘ "1’1”“?sz 2r gym]. (.5 j: .

9J6, ,i

Rothschild’s starlings from

lndoncsia and (below) the

scarlet macaw, the most

colourful of lhe parrot
iaiziiljv.

tive birds into a readily Saicahln
commodity. Opinion is sharply rim-
dcd on the consequences of dicing.
While one group has claimed more
than 30 per cent fatalities because
of dyeing, another beiicves that
dicing actually causes fewer than
the normal deaths.

lnskipo has reported extort-ii'i'vl;
on too troop-mg methods {'HltT-ii)§\‘-l.
The birds, he says are trzipgwd psi-
:"..:rily in Biliar and L’tuir l’t‘fltltm"...
mainly in the Gazigzctéc plain :i"-.«;
the iiimz‘iieyan foothill-S. .‘le‘SI ‘7
ping is carried ny
sionai tanner: order. 1‘

ifﬂpgmra mum) identify! :iot

r‘.r.:f ‘7 '

(511's

'10

—.—...—,.—...———- -a.-...—- _.

Erode

the snccicﬁ. but sown-limos
lhiii‘ b‘C‘X titlil =ii1c.

Among the {owe-go. Marcie-i. one
of the birds. merit threatened by
{nix'or-s iiir‘us’ive of the cage- bird
lfililt' is the scarlet function tic-5-
st'ihcd Lid "aci‘hggrz the mint ca‘miir-
fill and host k3d'ﬂl’l ﬁltffilific‘!‘ of the
it; not family." “She sgzccz'cs is dec-
l: (in; i'ri;iitii',' in minjl at.
Liiilfl America.

.\'~ '1’
gun a“.

.‘iccoiiling to Crew :Qii“-'5‘in,
Si'..!ii‘l Illat'llw in.»
for the cage hirzi
niimhct‘s '

i’iiirin" ti-
and "r‘

_.. l .
run”: his oicii'
ml. . i3 :2 .. in'
lini". '

3» hi‘ rt:

{HP
i‘L‘iLillfi‘d
in lame

di'i_':‘iils'_

«ice «T1341. 3 -

bet-:1

3‘."2il_'_~‘ 8.x-
.‘iinc rim.

' "I v‘ . .
'Itfi : Ci;f‘..iil<)ll.

ci'ntrzi':
‘UV"’Z:‘
' . ,l~
One :2". *_.i-;ii‘

hii'i-mc f'tL-c‘i‘zlzi'ii‘b

lLiCIl if i~.\'i'
operate) from .i1i
iiliiatr'iliini ill the study, nihit'ii
mimics «in ntli":';i\‘3:nc'it ill 'lii;
Lira Aug-elm l‘izniw. tziaiizism-rll,.
tho: :uiyrr’iiscr :‘tgitrsz the days
of M‘cliit‘i'. mniiiiin i:n:ni:"';it-.i.i are
scan-ion.“ :IiiniDi-i'c'i. ll Lou hid!
it? W"l.".l.i_‘tl \‘i' W ii aw“). taint .
oi‘ tliuc prizi‘x, this may
ia‘t Ulii)0l".ilf‘.l'.f.’ a” buy me
will. rci::i.inciii: _..)iir home.
are Finiji‘l'i: :iiiout
lgg (ll‘i‘f‘, ‘Qiiiul:
ii phi. Ami no

EITI‘

i:

"'lti‘;
Willi--
If j,'i)|l
"ii'l. ”we. Wii‘i
H) 4.7“. ii)

'A .
UL:

a". ,‘. 11‘

aiiIVLn—ﬁiiif’i ill'i‘ic’
'_f(':\"f‘.t""i mm 101‘
it'lidc its swim-mu. Dami-
nit-4's liltifii'mi biid. it is one oi
the lar.;v:.t. .i-nx: lioautlitil and
most cntlaiigcrcii I‘dil'riﬂ‘i the
Wm‘id. Univ .1 four remain in iii-1
mountain ruin t'iirezt ..f Dominica.
'i‘hoiigh pl'OiCCti'ii Ly inns for ilﬂt'r
75 yous, tim i,}<')!TilEllL"J.'l Goren»
:nent 323:. ;i;’i;:i-=ii-.;d Li; ;i.l 10 pi":-
lcct anaeroii iron hunting, m.)-
tiirc. nest destruction, egg—stealth,—
i-‘(y-Oi‘ttitiipr‘.
unotncr rayon
:inai (:iirrwrijv uzu

L
‘ili‘, i.‘

Wit:

[tr-02:":

:-
cure hi i ii

‘V‘t
Ill

C"iil."“

 




THE CHRlSTIAN‘ SCIENCE MONITOR

Midsummer strike

by postal unions?

Wages averaging $19,000
are key issue; workers
also fret about job security

By Ed Townsend
Labor correspondent of The Christian Science Monitor

Difficult labor negotiations are just ahead for the US
Postal Service and unions representing 570,000 workers.

Although it is illegal to strike against the Postal Service, a
' branch of the federal government, there are rumblings of
walkouts around the country this summer if new contracts
are not signed by a July 20 deadline.

Negotiations will get under way in April but lines are
already being drawn taut

Postmaster General William F. Bolger called on unions
“to pursue a policy of moderation in this year’s collective
bargaining.” He noted in a Washington National Press Club
speech recently that postal workers averaged $19,000 a year
in wages —~ $22,000 if fringe benefits are added in — and that
“it is no secret that some people consider postal employees
overc ompensated . ”

His principal adversary in bargaining, Moe Biller, presi~
dent of the 250,000-member American Postal Workers Union,
said the unions bargaining with the Postal Service not only
want improved wages, including an unlimited cost-of-living
adjustment plan, but also must be assured in new contracts
that postal workers will be treated with “dignity and
respect” on the job.

Meanwhile, a threatened split in union ranks could add to
bargaining problems. Mail handlers, in one branch of the
Laborers Union, are unhappy about the strike threats and
militant stances of the Postal Workers and Letter Carriers
and could break away from the solid front usually put to-
gether by unions in postal bargaining. If there is a division,
negotiating a contract that will satisfy everyone will be
difficult.

Again this year. bargaining will be shadowed by public
and government dissatisfaction with the operation of the
Postal Service. Its efficiency in delivering the mail is under
increasing criticism. Its costs have so escalated that first-
class stamps may soon go up from 15 cents to 18 cents and
Saturday service may be ended.

Mr. Bolger, urging a moderation of demands, says union
officials appear “unaware of the financial condition of the
Postal Service” and of the harsh realities of the national
economy.

The aggressive Mr. Biller, who last year challenged in-
cumbent Emmet Andrews for the presidencyzof the Postal

 

‘l’m not in office to bargain with a chip
on my shoulder, but I don’t like the
antiunion tactics of the present postal
administration.’

-— Moe Bil/er, postal union president

 

Workers and won overwhelmingly with a’pledge of tougher
bargaining, accuses the Postal Service of harassing of work-
ers by supervisors, inadequate concern for the safety of em~
ployees in automated operations, productivity changes de-
signed to reduce labor costs by eliminating workers, and
“inadequate” compensation.

He says: “I’m not in office to bargain with a chip on my
shoulder, but I don’t like the antiunion tactics of the present
postal administration, and I don’t want a repeat of the 1978
contract disaster.

Three years ago the previous union administration settled
on contract terms that many postal workers had repudiated
as unsatisfactory. Some struck illegally in New Jersey and
California and were dismissed. Biller wants them reinstated.

He recently warned that if labor’s demands are not met,
workers will use their “weapon of last resort” — strike ac-

tion. In retort, the postmaster general says, “This nation ‘

cannot tolerate a postal work stoppage.” If one is scheduled,
he adds, he will use all legal means possible to prevent it.

The Postal Service is proposing further automation of
mail sorting and other operations. Bolger has forecast sav-
ings by 1986 of $500 million a year as a result of automation
and has said that he hopes to reduce the postal work force by
5.30.000 employees before 1990, but through attrition rather
than layoffs. \

Biller has attacked the planned expansion of automation,

including a nine-digit ZIP code, as “phony boondoggles, ” and
he is suggesting to members of the union that they not coop-
erate with such changes until there are firm assurances that
no jObs will be eliminated.

 

Tuesday, March 10, 1981

By Barth J. Falkenberg, staff photographer

Birds like this cockatoo are paying the price for the exotic taste of bird fanciers around the world

Agriculture could be hurt

 

Exotic birds: report cites dangers of imports

By David F. Salisbury
Staff correspondent of The Christian Science Monitor
Denver
~-It seems so harmless.

You drive down to your local pet shop and look over all
the brightly colored tropical birds. You buy one of these
exotic creatures, possibly for companionship or to impress
your friends.

Yet each such decision is the tip of an iceberg — the end
point of a process that is decimating many bird popula-
tions in South America, Africa, and Asia. In addition, this
trade threatens the survival of a number of domestic spe-
cies of‘birds and could adversely affect agriculture in a
number of developed nations.

These damaging side effects of the international exotic
bird trade are spelled out in word and picture by “The Bird
Business,” a study conducted by Greta Nilson for the
Animal Welfare Institute in Washington, DC.

Drawing heavily on official statistics and sources and
quoting the concerns of well-known ornithologists, this
study draws a restrained but devastating picture of the
impact that the current world trade in birds is having.

“Within the past 20 years . . . bird dealers have created
a new demand for an ever-increasing variety of birds. . . .
To satisfy this new market . . . world trade in wild birds
has recently amounted to a minimum of 7.5 million birds
annually,” the study reports.

The demand for some species has become so great that
a number are becoming rare in their native lands. The
scarlet macaw in Central America and the mynah in
Thailand are examples of species currently suffering the
effects of overhunting.

The demand for rare birds is multiplied by the fact that
for every bird that makes it to a pet shop cage, at least five

others die in traps or shipping cages, Miss Nilson‘

estimates.

Despite regulations in countries such as the United
States and Britain and some recent improvement, ship-
ping conditions remain inhumane. Large numbers of birds
are injured or killed by overcrowding, lack .of food and
water, suffocation, and overheating, the study charges.

Furthermore, many of the birds are unsuited to life in
cages and require specialized diets. As a result, many die
after only a short time in captivity.

A number of countries have recognized this problem
and curtailed or banned exports of their rare and endan-
gered birds. In South and Central America, Colombia,
Bolivia, and Costa Rica have stopped all exports. In Asia,

India, Japan, Sri Lanka, Taiwan, and Indonesia have cur-
tailed exports. However, a number of other countries have
stepped up their exports.

Not only does this international trade threaten bird spe-
cies in their homelands, but it also poses a serious threat to
domestic species in America and other importing coun-
tries, the study points out.

To date, some 25 exotic species have become estab- 7
lished in the continental US. The oldest of.these are the
house sparrow and the European starling — which were
intentionally introduced in the 19th century by homesick
Europeans who missed familiar species. Both have had a
negative impact on US agriculture and native US bird pop—
ulations. Starlings, for example, drive woodpeckers and
Eastern bluebirds out of their nests and have been a major
factor in those birds’ decline.

Similarly, a number of the tropical birds imported to
the US are serious agricultural pests in their homeland,
the study claims. An example is the monk parakeet. These
birds spread throughout the Midwest in the late 19605. .
Because of the monk parakeet’s voraciousness, 13
Northeastern states cooperated in an apparently success-
ful parakeet eradication program in 1973.

However, the rose-winged parakeet, a major agricul-
tural pest in India, has established breeding populations in
Florida. Their relatives, the canary-winged parakeets, are
thriving in San Francisco, where they could become a ma-
jor vineyard pest if they spread into nearby Napa Valley,
the study warns.

In 1975, the California Department of Agriculture esti-
mated that three imported species could cause as much as
$1. 2 million annual damage to the state’s fruit, nut, and
grain crops

Many of these birds also carry diseases, some of which
threaten the domestic poultry industry. This problem has
been recognized since the turn of the century, when
Congress passed “injurious wildlife regulations.” But only
five bird species are banned under these regulations and,
according to the Animal Welfare Institute study, several of
these have been imported despite this prohibition.

In 1973, the Fish and Wildlife Service proposed far-
reaching regulations that would ban import of all but five
species of exotic birds. This plan was attacked by pet in-
dustry forces, and the regulations were withdrawn. Four
years later the Wildlife Service tried again. They sug-
gested adding four species to the regulations. Again they
were withdrawn after strenuous opposition.

 

 

 




13 March 1981‘

Ms. Susan Burnside
Agriculture writer
The Miami Herald
Miami, Florida 33101

Dear Ms. Burnside,

I have recently reaé your February tSth article in The
Miami Herald. ”Smugglem Might Fly In More Than Pot." I. have
enclosed a copy of our newest publication. ”The Bird Business,
A Study of the Commercial Cage Bird Trade,“ because I thought
chapter 3's discussion of v.3. agriculture and exotic birds
would be of particular interest to you. Our report agrees
completely with your story on the disease threats of infected
animals. Perhaps you could do a special report on the cage
bird trade in View of the fact that Miami receives more cage
birds than any other port of entry.

We can also suoply you with information on the bird dealers
in Miami. If you woulé like further information. call ue at
202-337-2332.

Sincerely I

Christine Stevens
President

 




m; Mm- 410L414

Z: 1;
W', {la _ 35101 L \

ﬁmmw %WWMWQ
W» W Wﬂmw l
W “WSQJJWJ W95 ”WW

Wﬁf‘w WM

 

 




M w d 0252/53 7/2332/

 




 

.\

1g

,1
,11“

Florida News

‘ 9°” The Miami H.611'311161‘.~

Sunday, Feb. 15, 1981 '_

smugle 1 1

By SUSAN BURNSIDE
Herald Agriculture Writer

ORLANDO -- The scenario reads like
something from a spy thriller:

A down-on-his-luck pilot agrees. to deliv-
er a load of marijuana to a deserted Central
Florida landing strip. He picks up the con-
traband in Columbia and learns he also
must deliver a parrot. He picks up a pork
sandwich and some mangos to eat on the
way. ‘

Over desolate pastureland in Hendry‘

County, his luck runs out.-
The plane crashes, killing the pilot. The
. bird escapes The pot is strewn around the
plane. The rancid pork sandwich and the
fly-infested fruit are tossed from the cock-

it.
p The parrot finds a food source used by
other birds. A wild hog eats the pork sand-
wich, then returns to its family. The fruit-
fly larvae in the mango hatch and head for
a citrus grove. Nosy cattle push and shove
the mariiuana bales around, brushing
1 against the burlap bags in which the dope
1 is stored.

Within weeks, Americans are supervis-
ing mass slaughters of cattle, pigs, sheep,
deer, goats and chickens. Citrus fruits are
threatened with disaster. Milk, beef, pork,
lamb, chickens and egg prices soar. Food
becomes scarce. The US. economy is in a
shambles.

Science fiction? Biological
Cold-war tactics?

It’s nothing quite so far-fetched.

This can happen easily, today or tomor«
row, 100 Florida lawmen from 25 counties
were told at a two- -.day seminar on exotic
agricultural pests and diseases here last
week.

Diseases and insect pests capable of de-
stroying the state s and even the nation’s
cattle swine, chicken and citrus industries
could enter the country and run , un-
checked, state and federal agricultural ex-
perts told the policemen.

warfare?

“We’re sitting on a tinder box. We have 1

been for years. All it takes is one infected
dope plane to landon one pasture and we’ll
be killing cows,” said Bill Voss, Brooksville

" rancher.l

 

‘ ‘.We’re sitting on, a tinder

box . . . All it takes is one .
infected depe plane to land-
on one pasture and we’ll be
killing cows.’

Rancher Bill Voss

4

m

Cattlemen are so worriedaboUt a foot—‘

and-mouth disease outbreak that they
asked the seminar to impress law—enforce-
ment officials with the seriousness of agri-

cultural dangers hidden in illegal drug]

runs.
Lawmen can help if they find food or
meat at a crime scene, said Dr. Harvey

Rubin, veterinarian in charge of the state ‘

Agriculture Department’s animal diagnotic
testing laboratories. “Put it in a plastic
bag, then bury it Or’ burn it and wash yOur

hands.” - '

Deadly animal viruses are most likely to
get into Florida illegally Since Customs and

US. Department of Agriculture agents-

working for the Animal and Plant Health
Inspection Service (APHIS) closely watch
ports of entry, said Scot Campbell an Ag-
riculture Department representative from
Washington, D. C. '

Because of its location, Florida “is one of '

the most vulnerable states in the nation”
when it comes to receiving. any of the exot-

. ic pests, said Dr. C. L. Campbell, director
of the Florida Agriculture Department’s

Division of Animal Industry.

Florida's proximity to Caribbean and
South American nations, its 8,500 miles of
coastline and its thousands of undeveloped

acres in the central section make it the per-

fect choice for drug smugglers --' and illic-

it diseases aren’t choosy about who they

travel with, he said.

The
virus, Which has been kept out of this na-
tion since 1929, could be carried in an old

burlap bag stored in a Colombian barn
_ where there were diseased cattle

 

deadly foot- and-mouth disease.

The fatal African swine- -fever virus «—

' Which is so bad 1n Haiti that three natidns, "j:

including the United States, will begin a"
24- month program in April to slaughter all

of Haiti’s swine -- could be carried to the

mainland in a rancid pork sandwich or
even on dirty boots

Exotic Newcastle disease, which can

lead to mass executions of poultry exposed
to it, can arrive with one diseased parrot
, who slips past us Customs’ inspectors-n
.and APHIS agents. .

The Mediterranian fruit fly, scourge of 73;:
the citrus industry, can appear in one
mango . *

The state only has 25 US. Border Patrol
agents here to help check the arrival of il-'
legal aliens, stowaways and political refu‘

gees and to keep them from bringing dead- “9.

ly diseases and pests into the state, said
James Brown, divisional director of the
Border Patrol for Florida.

In short, he said,‘ we ’re fighting a losmg

battle. ”

 




February 26, 1981

FOR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT:
John Gleiber 337-2332
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Greta Nilsson 698-5918
At least 7% million wild birds from tropical Latin America,
Asia and Africa are trapped each year for the cage bird market;
40% of these die at capture or on their journey to export sta-
tions: up to 80% of delicate species and very young birds die
soon after capture. These startling facts are documented in
Egg gird Business, a r121~page color-illustrated study of the
cage bird trade by Greta Nilsson, with a foreword by S. Dillon

Ripley, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, and a chap-

ter by British bird expert, Tim Inskipp. The report has just

been published by the Animal Welfare Institute.

Many of the wild bird survivors will end up in U.S. pet
stores contributing to an annual $100 million sales total, and
the most popular and lucrative of these birds will be parrots.
The huge profits -- as little as $4 is paid to the trapper of
a South.American Blue and Yellow Macaw, and a $1,500 price tag

~more-

 




-2-
is placed on the same bird in U.S. stores ~- also create a
smuggling market. :32 Bird Business features photographs
illustrating birds smuggled into the U.S. concealed in spare
tire wells, wrapped in newspapers and hidden in ice chests
and chronicles the significant death rate of these smuggled
birds - 80% or more die from suffocation or heat prostration.

These smuggled birds can harbor Exotic Newcastle Disease,
a major threat to the poultry industry, which since 1972, has
cost the American taxpayer some $150 million to control, and
cost the lives of 50,000 cage birds euthanized in pet stores
and dealerships around the country. The quarantine system to
screen birds for Exotic Newcastle Disease is another source of
high mortality: approximately 25% of the nearly 2 million birds
imported into the U.S. between 1976 and 1979 died or were re-
fused entry due to Exotic Newcastle Disease.

The Bird Business traces the movement of wild birds from
capture through way-stations, export cities, quarantine sta-
tions to the pet store.

It documents the bird species teetering on the brink of
extinction - certain Caribbean.Amazon parrots, the Spix Macaw
and the Golden—shouldered Parrot, for example ~ because of the
greed of some dealers and collectors who are willing to pay
$10 000 or more for these rare birds.

Egg Bird Business documents the urgent need to control
the trade in wild birds and confine imports to captive~bred
birds. Its recommendations are based on the extensive rev
search presented in the report and the resolutions of inter—
national conservation organizations. It documents the resis~
tance of trade interests to conservation legislation. con-
tinued importations of declining species and the cruelty and
suffering inflicted on the wild birds trapped for the cage
bird trade.

# # #

 




February 25, 1981
FOR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT
Fran Lipscomb

New Delhi, India

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

At least 7% million wild birds from trepical Latin
America, Asia and Africa are trapped each year; 40% will die
on their journey from capture to the export stations; up to

80%,of the delicate and very young birds will die. These

Startling facts are in The Bird Business, a lZl-page, color-

illustrated study of the cage bird trade, by Greta Nilsson

With a foreword by S. Dillon Ripley and a chapter on the
Indian bird trade by Tim Inskipp. The report has just been
Published by Animal Welfare Institute.

Many of the wild bird survivors will end up in 0.3. pet
Stores contributing to an annual $100 million in gross retail
Sales, and the most pOpular and lucrative of these birds will
be parrots. The huge profits ~~ as little as $4 is paid for
trapping a Blue and Yellow Macaw in South America and a $1500
price tag is placed on the same bird in U.S. stores ~- also
Create a huge smuggling market. The Bird Business features
photographs illustrating birds smuggled into the U.S. con—
Cealed in spare tire wells, vases, wrapped in newspapers and
hidden in car door panels.

~more-

 




These smuggled birds can harbor Exotic Newcastle Disease,
a major threat to the poultry industry, which since 1972, has
Cost the American taxpayer some $150 million and cost the lives
0f 50,000 cage birds.

The Bird Business traces the movement of wild birds from
Capture through way~stations, exPort cities, quarantine sta~
tions to the pet store.

It documents the bird species teetering on the brink of
extinction because of the greed of some collectors.

Twenty~five escaped (or intentionally released) exotic

bird species, primarily parrots,are shown to be established

in the continental U.S., competing with native birds for food

and nesting sites to the detriment of the latter.

~30-

 




 

February 26, 19

 

PO. Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007

 

FOR MORE INFORMATION COﬁTACT:
John Gleiber 337—2332
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Greta Nilsson 698-5918
At least 7% million wild birds from tropical Latin America,
Asia and Africa are trapped each year for the cage bird market;
40% of these die at capture or on their journey to export sta-

tions; up to 80% of delicate species and very young birds die

soon after capture. These startling facts are documented in

The Bird Business, a *lZl-page color-illustrated study of the

 

cage bird trade by Greta Nilsson, with a foreword by S. Dillon
Ripley, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, and a chap-

ter by British bird expert, Tim Inskipp. The report has just

been published by the Animal Welfare Institute.

Many of the wild bird survivors will end up in U.S. pet
stores contributing to an annual $100 million sales total, and
the most popular and lucrative of these birds will be parrots.
The huge profits —- as little as $4 is paid to the trapper of
a South American Blue and Yellow Macaw, and a $1,500 price tags

-more-

 




-2-
is placed on the same bird in U.S. stores -~ also create a

smuggling market. The Bird Business features photographs

 

illustrating birds smuggled into the U.S. concealed in spare
tire wells, wrapped in newspapers and hidden in ice chests

and chronicles the significant death rate of these smuggled

birds — 80% or more die from suffocation or heat prostration.

These smuggled birds can harbor Exotic Newcastle Disease,
a major threat to the poultry industry, which since 1972, has
cost the American taxpayer some $150 million to control, and
cost the lives of 50,000 cage birds euthanized in pet stores
and dealerships around the country. The quarantine system to
screen birds for Exotic Newcastle Disease is another source of
high mortality: approximately 25% of the nearly 2 million birds
imported into the U.S. between 1976 and 1979 died or were re—
fused entry due to Exotic Newcastle Disease.

The Bird Business traces the movement of wild birds from
capture through way—stations, export cities, quarantine sta—
tions to the pet store.

 

It documents the bird species teetering on the brink of
extinction - certain Caribbean Amazon parrots, the Spix Macaw
and the Golden-shouldered Parrot, for example — because of the
greed of some dealers and collectors who are willing to pay
$10,000 or more for these rare birds.

The Bird Business documents the urgent need to control
the trade in wild birds and confine imports to captive—bred
birds. Its recommendations are based on the extensive re-
search presented in the report and the resolutions of inter-
national conservation organizations. It documents the resis-
tance of trade interests to conservation legislation, con-
tinued importations of declining species and the cruelty and
suffering inflicted on the wild birds trapped for the cage
bird trade.

 

# # #

 




 

ANIMAL _

PO. Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007 February 25, 1981

 

 

FOR MORE INFOPdﬂATION CONTACT
Fran Lipscomb

New Delhi, India

FOR IMEDIATE RELEASE

At least 7% million wild birds from tropical Latin
America, Asia and Africa are trapped each year; 40% will die
On their journey from capture to the eXport stations; up to
80% of the delicate and very young birds will die. These
Startling facts are in The Bird Business, a lZl-page, color-
illustrated study of the cage bird trade, by Greta Nilsson
with a foreword by S. Dillon Ripley and a chapter on the
Indian bird trade by Tim Inskipp. The report has just been
Published by Animal Welfare Institute. -

Many of the wild bird survivors will end up in U.S. pet
Stores contributing to an annual $100 million in gross retail
Sales, and the most popular and lucrative of these birds will
be parrots. The huge profits —- as little as $4 is paid for
trapping a Blue and Yellow Macaw in South America and a $1500

price tag is placed on the same bird in U.S. stores -- also

Create a huge smuggling market. The Bird Business features

photographs illustrating birds smuggled into the U.S. con-

Cealed in spare tire wells, vases, wrapped in newspapers and
hidden in car door panels.

-more-—

 




These smuggled birds can harbor Exotic Newcastle Disease,
a major threat to the poultry industry, which since 1972, has
Cost the American taxpayer some $150 million and cost the lives
Of 50,000 cage birds.

The Bird Business traces the movement of wild birds from

 

Capture through way-stations, export cities, quarantine sta-
tions to the pet store.
It documents the bird Species teetering on the brink of
extinction because of the greed of some collectors._
Twenty-five escaped (or intentionally released) exotic

bird species, primarily parrots,are shown to be established

in the continental U.S., competing with native birds for food

and nesting sites to the detriment of the latter.

-30-

 




3

?RE% Rama
To me:

 




 

I : {1' p ' 12,.” a 1-] ‘m' { t x 3 I L ‘
I . . , E. _ .. ,‘" ’ "if: ~ I u
*1. .~ "" r)" 2' " '9‘" ~, \ 1‘ A ) ‘1‘; hi‘ _ ‘ > ,- V’ {w i a: p 'I 9 1’ f
; I/f («writ-,4? {if} if": .’ a; ' ’w‘ -°~- {...‘-1,» < ,( ‘5’? \ I l T C” r W) ’1', m? i f it: i {I at "
E W'- A“ “(I I .. ‘ | wi» _. .. [.m- r f. 1 ,f .. i r . I.
1 , - s .,,gw,1 ;: ,g- n= 1~w.3 .1- ww c.. w 4 ”““~ '
. { g; 1.5-». 5-" A. f if; <1, s *3 ~11 x {if}: a? (Ti 'é,“;,~'~z a 1. 5;," 1;. ‘ 13 3 '3“ a ‘i CL» I ‘f " 1‘“
5,“? Li ‘W’ Mx‘w’ " M" M «‘f 3’ ‘ I I \
' I» _ g l t f if: V d. w
ﬁaémwﬁﬁ 1w.% vAxéw J““' ’ 5”{ “W; ‘
m . u . . M001." 5. -. "”m“

At least 7/ mlll1on wild birds from tropical Latin America,

 

Asia and Africa””7"w

 

-c1alx?§ge“bi¥dt - $149%”will die)in the first \
l
few days of capture; up to 80% of the delicate and very young

will die:7 heseSE§§§ lfgcts are in/The Bird Business, a lZl-page, color-

 

illustrated study of the cage bird trade, by Greta Nilsson
with a foreword by S. Dillon Ripley and a chapter on the
Indian bird trade by Tim lnskipp. This The report has just

been published by Animal Welfare Institute.

uﬂk‘g’ (397‘?
Many of theAsurvivors will end up in U.S. pet stores contributing

to an annual $100 million in gross retail sales, and the most popular
and lucrative of these birds will be parrots. The huge profits——

as little as $4 is paid for trapping a Blue and Yellow Macaw in

South America and a $1500price tag is placed on the same bird

in U.S. stores-—alsocreate a huge smuggling market. The Bird Business

 

features photogragsﬁ illustrating birds smuggled into the U.S
concealed in spare tire wells, vases, wrapped in newspapers and

hidden in car door panels. industry
a majpr threat to the poultry/
These smuggled birds can harbor Exotic Newcastle Diseaseﬂaaé .Htcyt

W§’\Q’._ . w ..
&3;£—12§O c¢w~~.u-v

 

cost the American taxpayer some'

\NNLOV
&~$iiﬂ-million and COStAEO’ OOO dgbe birds th’ﬁwﬂﬂivesa This

di$ﬁ The Bird Business traces the movement of wildﬂ birds from capture
'W‘\ (Z: okra-9K -
aquay—stations, export cities, quarantine stations

 

 

the pet store.
It documentsfthe bird species teetering on the brink of

extinction because of the greed of some collectors. @xhexx
exotic
Twenty—five escaped (or intentionally released)/birdx

ibiswn 75:: 5:2,
species, primarily parrots argjestablished in the continental U. S.

competing with native birds for x food and nesting sites to the

detriment of the latter,

w Wﬂwm: .
g7f%“77€fﬁﬁf Ml.,_-
5:, .. a: / l i { r f; a”; 1'5)? )DQ‘ java 5?,
.\,~
~. (1.. ,1. .3

..'“. I.” . ,. .' 1-,...”.. ,. . , ..'. -,.,...- .. - ~ , «r _. . . . ..c\,.,_., ”4,“ "...”. -(1, (”w u... "T”‘MV‘V‘: ,_ agavr. .1.
., i .. . A ,4, , ~ .,... m, u ‘4». 1
“5.1:. J @,‘ i1“; ‘ EL ‘- E x 9 , 5 .. ,1,
, . . . . w ...
.v .- , v 1" . - “ s 1 ,,. 2.x
.' 7, ,. . - ,1 » ,
' v "» v' hwy-“ix 2m..- - -,»1~.,.,..i- , :
~l I I an"
. , ‘ H , , , 3,4,, ,1???

2 .-
7%,; ' i

 




For Release February 19, 1981

A new report which examines the cage bird trade has just been publishéd
by Animal Welfare Institute. This report, called The Bird Business, was
published in its first edition in 1977 and this edition is a revised and
expanded View of the commercial cage bird market. A foreword by Dr. S. Dillon

Ripley, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, and President of the internationa-

r“

Council for Bird Preservation, discusses the seriousness of the impact of this
Eicking in birds for the pet market is a business which grosses
over $100 million in retail sales in the U.S. While some of the birds sold in
pet stores are raised in captivity, the Budgerigar and Zebra Finch for example,
millions of wild birds are trapped in tropical couitries to cater to the new

market for cockatoos, parrots, macaws and toucans. In fact, a minimum of

7-“ __

7% million wild birds are captured yearly for the world trade. The Bird Business

«““N-x

traces the journey of wild birds - from capture in trOpical Latin America, Asia
.\
or Africa - to pet stores in the United Statesq This.study revealed that mortal-

#1

§ 4
ity of these wild-caught birds is high -§40% of wild—trapped birds die in the first

few days after capture, and up to 80% of certain delicate species and very young

birds taken from the nest die soon after capture. The mortality continues
as they are transported to way-stations in tropical countries, export cities,

and arrive in quarantine stations in the 0.8. to be screened for Exotic Newcastle
. 0 F250 Hedi”) , d
Outbreaks of this disease Spread to poultry in 1972 and l973,ga a great oss of bir S.
Disease./ﬁn the four-year period from 1976 through l979, 1,844,306Lbirds arrived
LIL 2.

at ports of entry in the U.S. ; theseﬁnearly two million birds, 52,409 were

 




dead on arrival, 249,626 birds died in quarantine stations, and an additional
138,829 birds were refused entry due to the presence of Exotic Newcastle Disease.
These latter birds were either euthanized or exported to other countries, and
their survival is doubtful due to exposure to this virulent disease. These

statistics, provided by the 0.8. Department of Agriculture's Animal and Plant
which supervises the quarantine system

Health Inspection Service,/are seldom ment10ned’by the pet dealers who profit
from the sale of wild birds. In spite of the high mortality, huge profits are
being made by pet dealers and importers because of the low prices which these
birds cost in their countries of origin. A Blue and Yellow Macaw, for example,
can be purchased from a bird trapper in South America for as little as $4 and
when it reaches pet stores in the U.S., the price obtained by dealers has risen
to $1,500 or more. Little wonder that the pet industry has Spawned many new
millionaires. One pet store owner in New York City now owns a chain of seven

stores, grosses $1.5 million annually, and drives a Rolls Royce to work.

Parrots of various types - from paraxeets and con' 5 to macaws and cockatoos -

have become the most pOpular pet birds, and some half-million of these birds
were imported in the past few_vears. Many arémgghggled into the country from
Mexico, and some of the”7%“mﬁp’otdgraﬁhsﬂillustratingvthis report were obtained
from the Customs ServiceDOf parrotsvconCealed in sdare tire wells, vases,
wrapped in newspapers, and hidden in car door panels. Kany of these birds
were dead upon seizure from suffocation and heat prostration.<#These smuggled
birds can harbor Exotic Newcastle Disease and outbreaks of this disease in
pet stores and dealerships across the country necessitated the euthanizing of
50,000 cage birds in 1980. The quarantine system and the program to control the
spread of the disease financed from general funds to a large extent, and
ha¥3cost the American taxpayer some $150 million. Egg Bird Business makes
several recommendation the most important of which is to limit importations of
birds to those which have been bred in captivity, for both the conservation ard
protection of wild birds,and to prevent Exotic Newcastle Disease from being
introducedqinto this country's poultry farms.

Other aspects of the trade are treated in this lZlepage report;
* Twenty-fiv exotic bird Species, primarily parrots, haverbecome established

in the continental 0.8 These escaped (or intentionally released? birds ar§%Eom—
peting with native birds for food and nesting sites to the detriment of the latter.

,

* Collectors and aviculturists are pushing some bird Species to the brink of
extinction by paying huge prices for wild—captured endangered birds. Ornithologists
have predicted that 'ftéhis trade is not controlled, certain West Indian Amazon
parrots, the’?ﬁr?n; 1a aw, and the Golden-shouldered Parrot - ﬂéi worth $10,000
or more per bird w'will become extinct. Other bird species threatened by the trade
are discussed, and the chapter on endangered birds is illustrated with photogra-hs
of these threatened speciesc

*Gther chapters discuss the cage bird marketplace, dealer
system and sources of imported birds. The Appendix includes 1'
birdst Birds imported in the past four years, and guidelines f

 




      
    
  
  
   
   

New New Hid L,

. éﬁ‘fTiH {<11 0
X43 (“H—«w as,”
‘ i / Fag 75>,

 

AK J34? 6:? 57/“

J

   
 

7W #éﬂmﬂz' ﬂu; ,
{2715115141}! 751 Ti {5 - (W3  £
£00,;wl1'ZxQ/V) 1M ﬂu Alf C (/21

fM/MMMWéﬁ-ﬁ (AN/L 0M4 4&74)’ WW

 

54.1mm 6 w fame




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
P. O. Box 3719
Georgetown Station
Washington, DC. 20007
(202)3312334

Washington D.C., Julio 1984.

Seﬁor Editor
Le estoy incluyendo una estadistica sobre la

importacioh de pajaros silvestres (loros cacatdas,
periquitos y otras especies mas exoticas)desde su
pais a los Estados Unidos, y la cantidad de ellos
que llegan muertos o mueren mientras estah an cua~
rentena. Esta estadistica comprende los aﬁostl§@0—
1983 inclusive.

Como usted puede notar e1 porcentaje as alto.
En listas separadas se detallan algunos de estos
embarques.

Creemos que los ciudadanos de
estarah interesados en conocer e1 dastino de estos
pajaros que son capturados para exportaoiéh.

Estas cifras fueron obtenidas de el Departamento

de Agricultura de los Estados Unidos y la documenta~

D / O ' I Q I I
Clon esta a su d1sp051c10n y en el caso qua desee

examinarla, gustosamente 1e enviaremos COpia.

Le adjuntamos tambien la publicacion ”The Bird

I ' '1
Bu31ness"(El nagoc1ado con los pajaros)que con51oera~
/ . /
mos sera de su luteres.
t O (1" O

81 usted publlca un artlculo sobre la mater1a,que—

dariamos muy agradecidos si nos envia COpias del mismo

a: Animal Welfare Institute, P.O. Box 3650, Washington,

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
P. O. Box 3719
Georgetown Station
Washington, DC. 20007
(202) 337-2334

0.0. 20007 y a Greta Nilsson, P.O. Box 2814,
Raston Va. 22090, Estaéos Unidos.

Atantamente,

Greta Nilsson

Inclusos

GN/rre

 




Enclosed_are statistics on the importation of birds by the U.S. from wr(name of co;ntby3

and the numbers that arrived dead or died in quarantine for the years l980 through
l983. The nortality of these wild birds is high %. Some shipments haying
especially high nortality are listed separately. We thought the citizens of

(nane of country) 'would be interested to know the fate of birds captured for the

 

cage bird trade. The data was obtained fronxthe U.S. Departnent of Agriculture.
The original docunents are availabel if you WOUld like to examine thenn Enclosed
also is a copy of ”The Bird Business” report on the cage bird trade. If you print
an article on this subject, could you send copies please to the Aninal welfare
Institute, P.O. Box 3650, washington, DC 20007 and_to Greta Nilsson, P.0. Box 2814,
Reston, VA.22090 USA? Sincerely,

Greta Nilsson

 




P. 0. Box 1334
Alpine, Texas 79830
[915] 837-2475

October 7, 1977

Anima1 We1fare Institute
P.0. Box 3650
Washington, D.Cm 20007

Dear Sirs or Ms.:

P1ease send me a copy of the book "Bird Bussiness” by Greta
Nisson. Enc1osed is a check for $3.00.

Thank you.

Sincere1y,

ﬁ, wa

* H ' m
Ly) c.3733) (EX! (2% t t/ ‘Q/L—aig’rﬂ

(PM 3

Devora Ukrain
Research Associate

DV/vef

Enc1osure

 




1: .1 . A ‘ u ’n o .
1‘1315inrws r; - , L» ‘5; In >
ﬁaymenr €01 th15 9115*»? most? id

 




     
     

THE PENNSYLVANIA STATE UNIVERSITY

THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES
UNIVERSITY PARK, PENNSYLVANIA 16802

  
   
   
 
 
 
  
   
   
   
  
  
    

Life Sciences Library >
East 205 Pattee April 28, 1978

Animal welfare Institute
P.0. Box 3650
Washington, D.C. 20007

Dear Sir:

 

Will you please send us one copy of the following title:

Nilsson, Greta
The bird business.

Please send the invoice in triplicate and we will remit payment
promptly upon receipt of the title. Please address your reply as follows:
Mrs. Joann Warefield, Library Assistant, Life Sciences Library, East 205
Pattee, Pennsylvania State University, University Park, PA 16802. Your
attention to our request will be appreciated.

Thank you.
Very truly yours,

{N‘- i up 1
I 1: 1’ f ‘I i
1 j V, i x! .(v' "’9' if, M .F (II/”l; ‘
.7 . ﬁt (425%: .413." 5:4,; «1.11/3 Iii/4:" Mfo’wﬁ} :34?
. f3;
,uté/

(Mrs.) Joann warefield
Library Assistant




 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P.O. Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007

 

 

Dear Mr. Kellert,

"The Bird Business" which you
requested in an April 20
letter costs $3.00.

we will be happy to send a
c0py upon receipt of payment.
Thank you.

Sincere y,

, 2%? MW

lane alverson
Administrative
Assistant

 




v ' . i ,
‘ :7; . 7 ..... "/qu t
* {IL/b at” Q I, E V
‘ , ‘ ?
4/ {if «if ﬂ”g/{; "7’7

x-
q

 




d

‘ Yalé UanCI‘ Sity New Haven, Connecticut 06 511

SCHOOL OF FORESTRY AND
ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES

Sage H all
205 Prejpect Street

April 20, l978

Animal Welfare Institute
P.0. Box #650
Washington, DC 20007

Gentlemen:

Please send me a copy of Greta Nilsson's report entitled,
“The Bird Business.“

Thank you for your attention-3

Sin erely, /

/ ll
Ml

l l
ﬁ/

Step en R. Kelyl it, h.D.

 




.r‘

. 4
1/27

/

 

\(5/ e

f w¢4¢xéiéz¢4§f
818 N. BALLAS RDA!

SAINT LOUIS, MO. -
63 1 3 1 1776-1975

 




(2:3 f2L4M{%:QQL<?L

April 14, 1978

‘Mr. Matthew Agar
3665 Clay Street
San Francisco, California 94118

Dear Mr. Agar:
)

In response to your inquiry, wa wnnder‘how You
propose to handle the receipts fram sale-of copiea
of The Bird BusinesS? {

we think it might be simpler for you to either (1) list
The Bird Business in your catalog, giving the grice and
the address of the Animal Welfare Institute, or (2) buy
as many copies as you think you.can $311.

We lodk forward to your reply.

Sincerely,

(Mrs.) Lynne C. Hutdhison
for Mra. Stavena

 




4/3/78

Do you want to fill this order without
payment in advance? If you do please

send Nell some more copies of Bird Business -
she doesnt have 25 copies left.

I have sent a listing........

AS

P.S. This club has never been on our m.1.

 




Matthew Agar.
3:665 Ciay erreer.
5cm Francisco,

CaliFor‘nia. 94118.

Dear sirg,
We have a catalmg. We

wwuld lika you to Qand us 25 cmgiag ‘
(45M {9&ch
9f THE BIRm BUSINESSand yaur materials.

We will aﬁd it ta Qur catalgq.
sand to: wILDLIFE CLUB

BEES Clay at.
89? Ca 94118

thankyou

22‘. 52333352; $2.22 ~23 2332;,” r
(preso)

 

 

 




 

NATURAL HISTORY MUSEUM

900 EXPOSITION BLVD.‘ LOS ANGELES, CALM". 90007

tnnaaaaaiéiua

 

 

 

 




THE LIBRARY PURCHASE ORDER

NATURAL HISTORY MUSEUM LV
LOS ANGELES COUNTY N9 - 2 9 2 '

AUTHOR'S FULL NAME

Nilsson, Greta
NOFM$ TITLEThe Bird Business

 

 

PUBLISHER PLACE PUB DATE EDITION

3.00

Animal Welfare Institute Washington
COST PRICE SERIES

 

 

DATE REC'D DEALER . LIBRARY/LOS ANGELES COUNTY MUSEUM
Animal Wel fare OF NATURAL HISTORY

Institute P ,0, BOX 36 50 900 EXPOSITION BOULEVARD
DATE ORDERED LOS ANGELES, CALIF. 90007

Washington D.C. 2000?

BACK ORDER IF AVAILABLE BY:
RETURN 1 COPY IN BOOK OR IF ORDER CANCELLED

 

 

 

 

 




{50¢qu UOVHMM“ ,
“00% A) w $5*L'/W&;'<.f¥‘:"‘m'
C'aawsuw . FL 32" “’3 PM"

9

.v-«v

I

 




\IZ7I‘72”

AMMAL WELFAQE IN$+\+M+Q

Womd you Weage Send
me 0 Copy 0—? the. eroﬂL
QaHed Ache (3:: QQ/QXASWNE’SS a
Emdoged 13 my @ax/meﬂJc
(‘5? $3799) H: K 3r SWOLUOK b6
CAM Mo (6 mange 16+ me khOw-o

’WCMK V0“)
1/5?" (“7% V6“) Much

JEDSQO‘A Q M‘Wéffq
32 PRTHMQ 3+,
CUP—WA NT , e

Ojcﬂ l; - ..

 




£6 COL gab/Z?” ( CL }7

447M ngxya/L/ﬂpy /b 00%5 LUNZ' l/(JWQ

(A

.1 M153 QC “/71 (Lo/“’95 (Xi/49c} %'
gamma“. cum" j”— /Ear~eU€0Z £9 mcaZa,
Jam/d /‘7L b1. pass/w @C/W: a
wpy 05 03/2,»; “ v74» 5 m a: a % w

U/i/IW/SV/L/ I aﬂww/ ?
4/30 , coco/d 21‘?de (OP/5

Gm #0 4'9} Egg/3 [05/ 2%"wa Z A" 76/ M/Vf 3

‘ 5&1/6586/ /"5 gm a/ﬁcZ? /w”/€;W
710 cw a/f/‘E/Q? azéﬁa‘Z' 50mg

g ZQW you/952 [61 719 /J/{ 8W1 fizz/1,9747%
my am mm; 674 same éKIZm/U 5‘
&/" 771/5 00% i/(I/"fr’lﬁ ”/7 / 5/41 C #6. LT ZZW 24mm!
,4LUI% A’amg ,. I :féocg I 7L" //GM

{22 x/L‘Zéuafm’ .

‘ L. 74m ,/ a 5m dc; W
Max 0/03” who [m5 000M”). (7‘
51144; dséwx II}; 027/fo NW

A ﬂak/"9M 0:: WWW

/\
f‘IK’f/G/ 0/) ) «CL-"Md

 




LUULQ wit/‘06} £11 VIA (Ll %O©C}l 21% w
:r m ' Ma a ma .2.

16‘; ”LE A1201, {lﬂb’I/K yOu E 02M¥fwuu

Mw—N

 




{)7 ("1.3g «(fﬂ‘f’fU/tﬁwc (— w (“it 11")

ﬁ/

‘3' 'I V ."r f} .4 ﬂ
‘ £1 ‘25;ch (a.
L ,
If. / i
1/ .1, f a l’ I
. {MLZU 1 L 6L“

/

4 {'23 /( C43?»

(,3. 1‘"
0 - u» in, .
m Hz/f'ﬂ M on FM .3
' hm181474'cwvm’

{4/67 ( /§€’%Lu ; (7“ f 77:“ S”
gr? C9’M’b€r€,ﬂ.f

 




 




\ i .
w’ is / '
( ./ /7{4 6( \g ( ICC/C(9va . i ,_
ﬂ/Z/{j f/Z 14’12/2/1/2’6/ / [46/1/Mé/Z "fl/\x
L , .
z

‘ 5% /

 




Januang 18, 1978

The Animaz Weﬂﬁane Inbtitute
P.0. Box 3650
Wabhington, D.C. 20007

Bea/L SOL:

Pieaée bend me one capy 05 {he pubﬁicaiion "The Bind BuALnQAA" a
neponz by Gneta NLZAAon, which LA auaiﬂabﬁe at $3.00 a copy.

, , 1,.7113 'f? E?
EncKOAed LA my check 4n the amount 06 $3.00. -
Veay tnuﬂy younb,

x??? “”7
, ’. /// \é’A/‘j

Heﬁen M. Levy .5
4615 N. Caméno Nuebtno
TuCAon, Anizona 85705

hmﬁ

Enc.

 




 




Mﬁﬁ J M Luam:$
935 WYANGSYIE TQAQL
W£$¥?iEL% N J @7Q93

 




ZGOLOGICAL CONSORTIUM, INC.

 

Moin Offices: Rt. #3, Box 126, Thurmont, Md. 21788 Phone: (301) 271-7488

January 17, 1978

Animal Welfare Institute
P.0. Box 3650
Washington,

D.C. 20007

Dear Sirs:

Please send us 2 copies of the report called "The Bird
Business" by Greta Nilsson at your earliest convenience.
You will find apﬁﬁl00~check enclosed for the cost of purchase
of these two reports. ’Thank you.

Sincerely yours,

d

BrendaIManahan
Secretary

RAH/brm

Dedicated to fostering the relation-5MP aetween man and animal through zoological ex/tt'eitt'on and education

 




42:“ g z/ a K
”49.51
jaw/7 {gt/f /‘-/7Lé1 //7Z
' .7/ww/ (Inf/If: L’ L, f r \A/ {~14
r7 7 C: ‘
‘ ”/7er J// VV/ /

 

 




 

 




ARTHUR LQBow C‘QMTW
36 w. x; ‘

NM W N7 “01/
95W

\

I -.. if
a, 1’ La

 




Nov. 25, 1977
Animal'weﬁrare Institute
Box 3650

washington, D.C.
Dear Sirs:

I am doing an article on the pet trade in wild animals and
would greatly appreciate a copy of the study by Greta Nielson that I

understand you have.

Sincerely,

1/” Joe'Wing

15 Briarcliff drive

Port washington, N.Y. 11050

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P. 0. Box 3650
WASHINGTON. D. C. 20007

November 10, 1977

W

U.S. Department of Agriculture-APHIS
Veterinary Services

Room G-loo, Federal Building
Hyattsville, Md. 20782

Att: S.E. Giddens

"The Bird Business, A Study of the Importation of Birds
into the United States"

25 copies with photos @ $10

Amount Due: $250.

 




UNITED STATES DEPARTME‘NT‘OF AGRICULTURE ms NUMBER MUST

 

 

—4l

9

ASE-14 vs-15 1.3/12: 11/9/77 PURCHASE ORDER AVOSESE’EZSANAQEEAAD

PAGE NUMBER CONTRACT NUMBER

PAPERS RELATING TO .
THIS ORDER

ORDER DATE ORDER NUMBER

 

 

lo}

0.14.

 

 

 

 

102677 40~3294-8—1014

 

CHECK ONE

Purchase

rOrder (See

A Reverse)

Delivery
D Order

TO: (Seller)

Animal Welfare Institute
P.O. Box 3650
Washington, DC 20007

SHIP TO: (Consignee and Destination)
U’SDA~AP!!IS', Veterinary Services
Room 6-166, ‘ Federal Building
Hyattsville, MD 20782

Attn: S. E. Giddens

 

 

 

LINE ACT.
ITEM CODE

DESCRIPTION

 

QUANTITY .gg’JE UNIT PRICE AMOUNT

 

01

 

 

"The Bird Business A Study of the
Importatian of Birds into the United
States" By: Greta N11830:! ‘ '

25 ea 10 .00 25 90

 

 

F>Z-D-DO m-mmrrmm

 

 

FOB POINT DISCOUNT TERMS

I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
|
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
|
I
I
I
I
|
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
|
I
I
|
I
|
I
l
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I

 

Shim) ing Point

.. - He:
TIME FOR DELIVERY SHIP VIA

 

2~3 weeks

BILLING INSTRUCTIONS:
Furnish invoice with our ORDER NUMBER to:
US. DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

National Finance Center
PO. Box 60075

New Orleans, Louisiana 70160

 

 

FAILURE TO SHOW OUR PURCHASE ORDER NUMBER ON INVOICE WILL DELAY PAYMENT
FREIGHT CHARGE OVER $25 REQUIRES BILL OF LADING

 

ISSUING OFFICE NAME AND ADDRESS
USDA-Anus, Administrative Services Divisien
Room 618-«A, Federal Building
6505 Belcrest Road
. Hyattsville, MD 20782

————

 

‘ ORDERED BY (Name and Title)

8. E. Giddens , Prowl-went Officer
PHONE (Area Code and Number)

(301) 436~8§05

AUTHORIZED S NAT RE I ‘
5:3'}: ”W C/ I‘ l \ /\ L J».
M W

FORM AD-838-10 (7-75)

SELLER’S ORIGINAL

 




 

The followmg terms and conditions apply to purchase orders only.
When “Purchase Order" is checked on the front of this form, supplies
Or servrces shall be furnished in accordance With the terms speCified
on both Sides of this order and on the attached sheets, if any. ,

1. INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE-Inspection and acceptance
will be at destination, unless otherwise provided. Until delivery and
acceptance, and after any rejections, risk of loss will be on the
Contractor unless loss results from negligence of the Government.

2. VARIATION IN QUANTITY.-No variation in the quantity of any
item called for by this contract will be accepted unless such variation

has been caused by conditions of. loading, shipping, or packing, or‘

allowances in manufacturing processes, and then'onl'y to the extent, if
any, specified elsewhereiin this contract.

3. DISCOUNTS-Discount time will be computed from date of
delivery at place of acceptance or from receipt of correct invoice at
the office specified by the Government, whichever is later. Payment is
made, for discount purposes, when check‘is mailed.

4. DISPUTES-(a) Except as otherwise provided in this contract
any dispute concerning aiquestion of fact arising under this contract
which is not disposed of by agreementshall be decided byithe
Contracting Officer, who shall mail or otherwise furnish a copy thereof
to the Contractor. This decision shall be final and conclusive unless.
within 30 days from the date of receipt of such copy, the Contractor
mails or otherwise furniShes to the Contracting Officer a written
appeal addressed to the Head of the Agency. The decision of the Head
of the Agency or his duly authorized: representative for the
determination of such appeals shall be final and conclusive unless
determined to have been fraudulent, or capricious, or arbitrary, or so
grossly erroneous as necessarily to imply bad faith, or not supported
by substantial evidence. The ContractOr shall be afforded an
opportunity to be heard and to offer evidence in support of his appeal,
Pending final decision of a dispute hereunder, the Contractor shall
proceed diligently with the performance of the contract and in
accordance with the Contracting Officer's decision. (b) This
“Disputes" clause does not preclude consideration of law questions in
connection with decisions provided for in (a) above: provided, that
nothing in this contract shall be construed as making final the decision
of any administrative official, representative or board on a question of
law. .

5. FOREIGN SUPPLIES-This contract is subject to the Buy
American Act (41 U.S.C. 10 a-d) as implemented by Executive Order
10582 of December 17, 1954, and any restrictions in appropriation acts
on the procurement of foreign supplies.

6. CONVICT LABOR.-In connection with the performance of work
under this contract, the Contractor agrees not to employ any person
undergoing sentence of imprisonment except as provided by Public
Law 89-176, September 10, 1965 (18 U.S.C. 4082 (c) (2)) and
Executive Order 11755, December 29, 1973.

7. OFFICIALS NOT TO BENEFIT-No member of or Delegate to
Congress or resident commissioner, shall be admitted to any share or
part of this contract, or to any benefit that may arise therefrom: but
this provision shall not be construed to extend to this contract if made
with a corporation for its general benefit

8. COVENANT AGAINST CONTINGENT FEES. The Contractor
warrants that no person or selling agency has been emplOyed or
retained to solicit or secure this contract upon any agreement or
understanding for a commission, percentage, brokerage, or contingent
fees, excepting bonafide employees or bonafide established
commercial or selling agencies maintained by the Contractor for the
purpose of seCuring business. For breach or violation of this warranty
the Government shall have the right to annul this contract without
liability or in its discretion to deduct from the contract price or
consideration. or otherwise recover. the full amount of such
commission, percentage. brokerage. or contingent fees.

9. FEDERAL, STATE, AND LOCAL TAXES—Except as may be
otherWise prowded in this contract. the contract price includes all
applicable Federal. State and local taxes and duties in effect on the
date of this contract but does not include any taxes from which the
Government, the Contractor or this transaction is exempt. Upon
request of the Contractor. the Government shall furnish a tax
exemption certificate or similar ewdence of exemption With respect to
any such tax not included in the contract price pursuant to this clause
For the purpose of this clause. the term "date of this contract" means
the date of the contractor's Quotation or. if no quotation, the date of
this purchase order.

10. SERVICE CONTRACT ACT OF 1965.-(applies only to contracts
for servrces unless excepted by the regulations of the Department of

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

Terms and Conditions of Purchase Order '

Labor)-Except to the extent that an exemption, variation, or tolerance
would apply/pursuant to 29' CFR 4-6 if this were a contract in excess of
$2500, the contractor and any subcontractor hereunder shall pay all of
his employees engaged in performing work on the contract not less
than the minimum wage specified under section 6(a) (1) of the Fair
Labor Standards Act of 1938, as amended. All regulations and
interpretations of the Service ContraCt Act of 1965 expressed in 29-
CFR Part 4 are hereby incorporated by reference in this contract,
1. CHANGES—The Contracting Officer may at any time, by a

 
   
   
    

written order, and without notice to the sureties, make changes, within ~

the general scope of this contract, in any one or more of the following.

'(i)for supplies.- (a) drawings, designs or specifications, where the

supplies to be furnished are to be specially manufactured for the
Government in accordance therewith; (b) method of shipment or
packing; and (c) place of delivery; (ii) forservices: (a) specifications
(including drawings and designs); (b) ‘method or manner of
performance of the work; (c) Government- furnished facilities,
equipment, materials, services, or site; or (d) directing accelerationjp.
the performance of the work. If any such change causesen increase or
decrease in the cost of, or the time required for the performance of.
any part of the work under this contract, whether changed or ndt
changed by any such order, an equitable adjustment shall be made in
the contract price or delivery schedule, or both, and the contract shall
be modified in writing accordingly. Any claim by the Contractor for
adjustment under this clause must be asserted within 30 days from the
date of receipt by the Contractor of the notification of change;
Provided, however, that the Contracting Officer, if he decides that the
facts justify such action, may receive and act upon any such claim
asserted at any time prior to final payment under this contract. Where
the cost of property made obsolete or excess as a result of a change is
included in the Contractor's claim for adjustment. the Contracting
Officer shall have the right to prescribe the manner of disposition of
such property. Failure to agree to any adjustment shall be a dispute
concerning a question of fact within the meaning of the clause of this
contract entitled “Disputes." However, nothing in this clause shall
excuse the Contractor from proceeding with the contract as changed.

12. TERMINATION FOR DEFAULT-The Contracting Officer, by
written notice, may terminate the contract, in whole or in part, for a
failure of the Contractor to perform any of the provisions hereof. In
such event the Contractor shall be liable for damages. including the
excess cost of reprocuring similar supplies or services, provided that, if
(i) it is determined for any reason that the Contractor was not in default
or (ii) the Contractor's failure to perform is without his and his
subcontractor's control, fault or negligence the termination shall be a
termination for convenience under paragraph 13.

13. TERMINATION FOR CONVENIENCE—The Contracting Officer.
by written notice, may terminate this contract, in whole or in part,
when it is in the best interest of the Government. If this contract is for
supplies and is so terminated, the Contractor shall be compensated in
accordance with Part 1-8 of the Federal Procurement Regulations (41
CFR 18), in effect on this contract's date. To the extent that this
contract is for services and is so terminated, the Government shall be
liable only for payment in accordance with the payment provisions of
this contract for services rendered prior to the effective date of
termination

14. ASSIGNMENT OF CLAIMS. C—laims for monies due or to
become due under this contract shall be assigned only pursuant to the
Assignment of Claims Act of 1940, as amended (31 U.S.C. 203, 41
USC. 15).This Purchase Order may not be assigned unless or until
the supplier has been requested to and has accepted this order by
executing an Acceptance hereon.

15. CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE—if the amount of
this Purchase Order exceeds $2,500,the following clauses form a part
of the Purchase Order and are hereby incorporated by reference.
Citations refer to the Federal Procurement Regulations. Text of the
clauses may be obtained from the Contracting Officer:

Examination of Records by the Comptroller General (1-7.103-3)
Listing of Employment Openings (1- 12.1 102- 2)
Employment of the Handicapped (1-12.1304)
Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act
Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act (1-12303)
- Service Contract Act of 1965 (1 —12.904-1) (when applicable this
clause takes precedence over paragraph 10 above)
(The followrng clauses apply if the amount of this PurchaseOrder

exceeds $5,000)
Utilization of Small Business Concerns (1—1.710-3—(a))

Utilization of Labor Surplus Area Concerns (1-1 BOB-3(a))
Utilization of Minority Busmess Enterprise (1-1.1310-2(a))

Form AD-838-10 (7—75)

‘0

 

   
  
  

      




\.

\wm W;\F«fa \meaaxxmx /. r\««max Qaa m, HNN

 

«NRC @xcmmx hAAKA/«mxmw \NrNx \LLKHUC VAaRAona

r!

\

n
\uQthax ﬁrrbwaxﬁxx ELK. PVLANIALRXTJK «\QGHALLQP fad
”Dex .\ m

\Hﬂa\»\ «(\A‘ \S\.ﬁ«a.«a «ﬁg? .

XEM «XE: («Max [\x \P.\«L.«L %\ r ga “RNA... \mu «.7
_\

.(«N’dé \«\s \n/. ,f.. «\Nxxaaa .

f A“ «ﬂNn Fl. «\Alﬁxa». C ANN. r..\« FUNK: \KNA \Aﬂaaa/ »
ax.
as, .

XKCCKMLAIH V“\«\%)\f\% \Nﬁxxrg \KJ « IP\\ \x' Q: «ﬂxxuﬁaaR \ \rN AIL wé\f&\.\¢\f «I«N\\r«A\
F. . ._ ..

/.

MKCAL \Vﬁux, \ \x «Six: «.«foK «We.

\

¥'\\c Qa \ ‘N‘i

..\.§Nf\%. ,

 




\{th
N\\m\ .‘mw

\\\....v\‘..
V‘f‘.
P x \
\2\‘\F\s
PX
Fl1\\\..

aux V
ﬁx

a.)

 

 

 

 




Bay Terrace Pet Kingdom
21207 26th Avenue
Bayside, New York 11360

November 1, 1977

Animal Welfare Institute

P. O. Box 3650

Washington, D. C. 20007

Gentlemen:

'We would appreciate your sending us as soon as possible

your book entitled "Study of Importation of Birds in the

United States.“ (Bird Business).
Enclosed you will find our check for $3.50.

Many, many thanks for your promptness.

Sincerely yours,

BAY TERRACE PET KINGDOM‘

i“ ,/' .q “H“ /,
C:jgég§£%. g
Clgire Korman
ck

Encl.
Special Delivery

 




1339.0 0. <>z=A .
.u. 0. Nova wom
OI>wr044m DOC—3. IOCmm
4230.23? mmem

on; FM... 5.:

’33.!) It/ at? 0 H544

Ha!) ..n64bnuluﬂy 1:) )ﬂalvdj 9 3,614

§» Q4“), Za’vexna 4‘4031)‘ H {A o‘nfoﬂ 4?...
.315... Tu JAE. £4.31, $555.33 . 9. «1...»... 9*...{3

~

Hiayf.) oh. 1849.9 A.) 9 L113 CIM. 35¢ .53
Tar a” ’69/{fﬂ drain?

EA“?

wabb n . M,

Mir/3.09 beaver mo! «5.3

 




‘ {1"“3 | \
§\ ’ V.“ J! .
" t Ch 4’ Q” gyw‘l C2“, (3‘ /‘~3 : g”!

C "€61. X 5C3 {VBV— $3“: 5736

.3 (3%“

ﬁne

’3
C { 717:6 /’ ’830 k- A?!
l i:% Fri; FLLS : in?

.3}

I C‘"{.:; C; L3" [6/ 61» (7)77 {ﬁg (Vii ‘ (1» H

07’ “ch/7+ C-’9‘)‘:”é7~—7’/"¢A a
’7' 11"ch L» f¢3 V 3

13(3ka 1)“: ‘30ch (
(q 359% [ﬁx/Ad?» £an

(EEC (”nggif'} gimp}? f-Fm/cjt ’
33’ I ‘ 3:3

 




€fo (3% as w
. N , -
zldff @{b @5923!“ Sww

\n/ \‘I.
. “\ pr

 

 

 

k? ggﬁkhk

‘1 . 12:1!!!»11'12‘eit.‘

[HQ/72AM We. . crfY/TvaCr sfb/

.‘l‘z‘uﬂ

 

1..
/|

. , 1

OJ)?“ ﬁﬂWV wwasrL 0.)le V???»

an?» H (IA %LML,&LV barf/q :

 

IIII‘IIIIII‘I‘II’

Q

' ’5' \r\ ‘ $73 \TW~‘- <3

 




Steve West

Box 526

Alpine, Texas
79850

29 November 1977

Animal Welfare Institute
808 3650
Washington, D.C. 20007

Dear Sirs: «E

Enclosed please find a check for @ Lovie Whitaker of Alpine recently
told me of a publication your gro;: has issued dealing with the im—
portation of birds(illegal and legal) into this country. She said

that it was a very fine publication.

Mrs. Whitaker is deeply concerned about this problem and she got
me interested in it a couple of years ago. I certainly hOpe that
something can be done.

Please rush if at allpnneahig____‘::::;ﬂl' /;
r 3

Thanks very much.

 

Sincerely,

*Q&}W,
.}§$&Ng(;MCL¥1’

Steve West

 




MEYERS. MARSHALL 8c MEYE RS
TWELFTH FLOOR
1050 SEVENTEENTH STREET, N. W.

NORMAN L. MEYERS WASHINGTON, D. C. 20036
d. HOWARD MARSHALL TELEPHONE

N. MARSHALL MEYERS (202) 466-8270

September 25, 1977

ARTHUR D. SCHAF‘FER CABLE ADDRESS:
OF COUNSEL “NORMEY”

Animal Welfare Institute
Post Office Box 3650
Washington, D. C. 20007

Gentlemen:

I would like to order lg_gopies_gf_1he_§ird Business
by Greta Nilsson. In addition, I would like to‘pﬁrchase
E’seis of the 16 colored photographs taken in the uarantine
station. Enclosed is a check in the amount 0 $50. . I/12557
the .

 

I would be happy to make arrangements to pick up
package as soon as possible. Would appreciate your contacting
my office at your earliest convenience.

Sincerely yours,

ﬂ/%r\

Marshall Mey rs

MMzmkh
enclosure

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
p. 0. Box 3050
WAmnNu'roN. D. C. 2000'?

Marshall beers

Meyers, Marshall & Meyers
Twelfth Floor

1050 Seventeenth Street, N.W.
washington, D.C. 20036

INVOICE

Quantity Description
"The Bird Business" With Pictures

" Without Pictures

November 10, 1977

Unit Price
$10.00

$3.00

 

 

Amount Paid- $50.00

Amount Due- $6.00

 




WM; Ma {/6174- ,
D ,c K M / M Ma
4557 L/K/N/ 571
/c 8’5

Mex/Jog (/1: n M/M/wﬂ/

 




l F ANIMALS

TREVOR H. SCOTT, A.M.B.I.M., EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR — HEADQUARTERS LONDON
INCORPORATED 1959
COLIN PLATT, FIELD SERVICES DIRECTOR JOHN C. WALSH, FIELD SERVICES DIRECTOR KLAUS ENNULAT, FIELD REPRESENTATIVE
106 Jermyn Street 29 Perkins Street 5300 Bonn 1 '
London, SW1 Y-6EE Jamaica Plain, Massachusetts 02130 Baumschulalle 15

ENGLAND U.S.A. WEST GERMANY
Telephone: 01839-3066 Telephone: (617) 522-7000 Telephone: (02221) 63 12 64

I'

C December 30, 1977

Animal Welfare Institute
POB 3650
Washington, D.C. 20007

Dear Sirs:

I should greatly appreciate it if you could send me two
copies of THE BIRD BUSINESS by Greta Ni n.

 

I have enclosed a check in the amount 0 $6 0 cover the
charges. {14%)
(ﬁx
/
Yours, sincerely,

;%;Q;..i;éfg&, :§%Ijﬂ,q%é

With appreciation,

Karen Deﬁfschmann
Administrative Assistant

KD/ m

enclosure

DIRECTORS AND ADVISORY DIRECTORS

MRS. RUKMINI DEVI ARUNDALE (INDIA) '
DR. OLAV BERG (NORWA Y)'

LT COL. E W H. BERWICK (UK)

DR. TORSTEN BLOM (SWEDEN)

DR. P. BOHRINGER (SWITZERLAND)
EDWARD L. BOND (USA)

DR. CARLTON BUTTRICK (USA)

H. E. BYWATER, M.R.C.V.S., F.R.S.H., F.INST. M. (UK)
ROGER CARAS (USA) '

DR. FERRARO CARO (ITALY) '

DR. DAVID S. CLAFLIN (USA)

JUSTICE EERO CORELL (FINLAND) "

ROBERT S. CUMMINGS (USA)

WOLFGANG DIEMER (W GERMANY)

MAJOR GEN ER ALA R. FYLER, C..,B OHBE (UK) '
H P. HAERING SWITZERLAND)”

DR. HANS HVASS. M .SKC. (DENMARK)
M A S. KAY F. C A. (U

CHIEF S. B KUKU (NIGERIA) '

MRS. W. LONGMAN (UK)

A. L. MACLAURIN (CANADA) '
JACQUES MAURY (FRANCE) '

”ADVISORY DIRECTOR

DR. FERNAND MERY (FRANCE)

JO V. MORGAN. JR. (USA)

AHGB. SCOTT, F...CA (UK)

CONDE DE SERT (SPAIN)

MRS. A. B. SINGH (INDIA) ‘

MRS. G. A. D. TAIT, M.A. (UK)

MRS. LAURA THOMPSON (HAWAII) "

MISS L. TURKETINE (IRELAND) '

COL. B. V. VEGESACK (SWEDEN) "

SIR JOHN WARD. G ..C M. Y.G (UK)

SIR CHARLES WOOLLE Y,.G B.E KHCM .G., M..,C LL D(UK) "
ANTHONY COMTE VAN ZWAREN DE ZWARENSTEIN (BELGIUM) '

 




 




 




) EFL/Cm KATY?) }

I 1\, J ':
Q \ f .. ,1"
‘ V“ WVW M (3‘ w W
l.

1
M . \ . ‘ ‘
M... ‘W

(‘““<<34J\3"5L/‘\ ’N L; p ». WQQQ’WN Q ,‘ QR
/ .
., . \

5‘ a” ,
x -=-
. ‘ 4

A.

\‘\ f ' - ‘*‘--.\\\\
«Q 91* NM

’ v ,Q ' rx , ‘ (ff;
QQQ Mm w. QQ QQ
j—Lh (\Qijg’\ \Nleg

 




YOUR PET'S
DEPARTMENT STORE

|280 THE ALAMEDA
SAN JOSE, CA 95|26

(408) 297-0840

January 16, 1978

Animal Welfare Institute
P. 0. BOX 3650
Washington, D.C. 20007

Gentlemen:

Enclosed please find my check in the amount of §3'OO: F7 I'll. _
for one copy of THE: BIRD BUSINESS, by Greta Nilsson. 3 ?‘?

Kindly forward this booklet to me at the above address,
as soon as possible.

Vegﬁ/truly yours

ML MW“

VII! [/(12’7’4 f. /i"//’/ W/r/
Gera dine Camilleri

 




January 20, 1978

Animal Welfare Institute
P.0. Box 3650

Washington, D.C. 20007

Gentlemen:

Please send the book, "Bird Business." I am enclosing a check for $3.00 Ix

plus .50 for postage. UK
u———.—-

\r

3’

mVery/tmuly yours a ,7 §

/ ,7/ i 31 w ,7“ ‘y )3 {Jr/m; 1"] ’5. \ 4’
',//’,’/c:."z::/{,;V XL” 1/ ‘ ”ff/y 4/, ya; «4' V
Mary M¢/ Menser ;

41 NM. 45th Ave.
Plantation, Fla. 33317

 




LAWRENCE G. BALCH
4333 N. KEDVALE AVENUE
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60641

16 Jan. 1978

Animal Welfare lnstitnte
Washington, DC

Gentlemen:

Please send me one copy of your report titled
"The Bird Business”, by Greta Nilsson. I enclose
my check for $3.00. Thank you.

N

Sincerely,

lf/ / /

<3 ‘7’”(7 K7 /
(x / / {iv/z xi...»—
~L

 




THE UNIVERSITY OF MANITOBA

DEPARTMENT» OF PSYCHOLOGY WINNIPEG, CANADA
R3T 2N2

February 24, 1978

Animal Welfare Institute

P,O, Box 3650 q "
Washington, D,C. }' .4
U.S.A.. 20007 $,|9’

Dear Sir:

I direct the Avian Behaviour Laboratory at this University. It has
come to my attention that you have published a report on birds titled "The
Bird Business" by Greta Nilsson. WOuld it be possible to receive a
complimentary copy of this book for evaluation for possible adoption in my
courses concerning animal behaviour at this University?

Sincerely,

7R? -

MW; '2

if '
L. James Shapiro, Ph.D.
Assistant Professor

 




~‘

9.; . I, .
m1 . .- >
¥ ‘ ' ”V" m ,
. ".- ¢ .1 L. _ , .»- v - r
1 ‘ - . ~ _ > .‘5 , ‘ r W .‘ V
n 2 I .- . ‘ ...‘ "t , v . ‘ A“ >
u ”’ »"" '-- ”2 .. - .. . . , ‘
‘(V “ 1H.>' \ ‘ J.” . I
f‘ ‘> ~ / 3..“ FM" A
, ‘3 f r v " b 1 r
.‘ .~"' [3/ ’f,‘ / .. {I I
V ,,~ .« ﬁr" : V I: ‘
“v '. * I,
L .
i N V.
‘ I V ‘l “I; J' " I / . _‘ ,1 .,.
.v J z, 7 ~ 4. 1 _. .~ *7,
, ,r n, V W

a , . I
"'M '7 a: «'7: a?
' V ‘2 . ,‘ ’ A -‘ 4“
u. , [5‘ 912.3%“:151W'v’fdiwmcv‘ kw»
. ,. ‘
4”

ﬁne—if...”

.j ‘ ‘1 ..
M} £43 M a, a; 6; 1;- 4: (ii/:- 213/

Ag? , 1‘ / u
{If f”? A (3;:

577a

 




ROBERTD.BELL

SECRETARY

JUUAN M.CARROLL
GOVERNOR

COMMONWEALTH OF KENTUCKY

DEPARTMENT FOR NATURAL RESOURCES AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
FRANKFORT, KENTUCKY 4060!

TELEPHONE (502) 564-3350

KENTUCKY NATURE PRESERVES COMMISSION

February 7, 1978

The Animal Weifare Institute
Post Office Box 3650
Washington, D. C. 20007

Gentiemen:

Please send us the report, ”The Bird Business” by Greta Niisson.
Biiiing and report can be forwarded to the address foiiowing:

Kentucky Nature Preserves Commission
#3 O'Brien Street
Frankfort, Kentucky 40601

Your attention to this request wiii be greatiy appreciated.

Sincereiy,

Donaid F. Harker, Jr. /
Director

 




 




 

«5Z9. U U
' g Via/(Wt My! \QMM "007 mLUZJ’W 6.
/ 944 Wig/fail» , f 8.0%)
//.>/) ~ Q5036;
/ M gm //#Q 6;) MCI/égfam 4W 02570
Wax/go (Eb/M (aoaaxw’ m/ky/ﬂ '
I My 7750190 3.00

Moll/C lI f ID.”
I Chap/(ﬁrm ﬂvforrmﬂﬁ 3-56
/77(c&/Vlle5/?JWSAL 3.00

WW gm?» ”‘4’” 3‘”

ID. (to
i J? (I

’/ M1?//C.{ // //’ \._,,...

02 WQ 5%: ﬁZ—S/gﬂ

 

  

  

f .2 (N m .0" . .
' \3 ‘ﬁ \ 3:? h:

g if‘ a;
7 9U; I K in! £11.; 43
f j “ .9; (5/ «£492.; ,.,.~ 3 2:72;; ‘1‘
“U 5
f
MU

 




Us Piaf} W

 




@Wa‘?‘ :4
74/779 Crag/f7 (SD 62:: ‘é ﬂag/8a
is Pp%Wx D'me ngg E L; :¢

9'F3,M y
Wm é—mdrw émzt, AWL

A”) A M (5 m: (E LWLMWWV
g éﬂL/C" ”W“ L

£361ij 2, C0“)L::9. 401305;" gdubéf—m
{,1 I” Mktﬁ ‘73? L. id, ""3ng? L

/2 g;
017“ F” 1? 3:0»: /éwvsa, 73;»:f? ,, [MgLW/y
W CM 460:» FM& (m, W WM“

W ‘ W ﬁgLCL/gl 'yw/ 63mg
14/ PPI‘? *7 _, "my? M‘W'W
W w z? 2%.. ' flu” AT

v'

w

 




5: ? 6L; “ii/1,“, ‘13;sz

\Wﬂ,% 3::Wwf 5;,m a Z: W 5%» (ii/9:” S Kai/Cw” .

 




 
   
   
   
    
    
 
 
  
   
 
 
    
      
 
   

 

Mr.
Ms.
Mrs.

2'2

  

*Dr.
* Dr.
* Dr.
* Mr.

A 7': Mr .

Dz.
Dc

Bird Importation Beport
Copies sent out

Greta has sent out

* indicates copies with photos
Date

Roger B. Clapp September 20
Shirley McGreal
John R. Whitaker

Dr. Warren B. King

John Thomas USF&W

Patrick McIntosh USF&W

Editor, Audubon

Editor, Not Man Apart

Editor, Nat. Parks & Cons. Magazine
Editor, Sierra Club Bulletin
Editor, Oryx (Fauna Preserv. Soc. )
Editor, Christian Science Monitor

\
5“.-—‘*
»ﬂ ._.__s.... ,. --,; ’

Wiley Bird USDA September 21
George Piersonl USDA
Richard Banks (2 c0pies w. photos -one for Auk)
Donald Bruning NYZA __—

John Burton
Oscaa 0w {ng

Rem 30%me ~R~Wm 3° W%




may”:

1.:
I"

v’." v
SW" "' M""’k«aM¢/'Ar C

,y'

, (A ~
(

“m, \‘ ,
"Mr

5!

awn/i, «Ev V Z: i.

n

v

I

r"

‘waw 31..." Jg‘“4”

ii;
3w. ....é.£..a«¢<i Q,

i " m ’2 TM“ '; KT."

3 .1 .,
i??? ‘3 /
f

,. If, ' ‘
:‘{.P“A,€‘ EMS R PM ﬁﬂ‘yﬁg ﬁg“ ’

1. 19,5
I .' f

' i imfﬁfa

9" » :13 4 I. ‘1 J
I

H w 2w

‘9‘,“ "at

Z ,4- v a. (r
f! ., rm w!“ ”by“ , L! in?!“ (A, if!”
. .' y W

{ x
{_}-’R.w£?

‘1

. . .. ‘3’ ”~ ,4
X~ " "'wa '

 




Estimated cost 23 publishing and distributing

1:000 reports 22_bird importation

Cost of reproduction, collating and
stapling including stiff covers

First 100 $376.85
Each additional 100 90.73

1,000 copies $1,193.02

Color photographs to accompany
20 copies ‘ 140.00

Postage

200 by First Class Mail 202.00
25 Foreign Air Parcel Post 122.55
700 by special book rate 210.00
75 Nil 0.00

Envelopes 70.00

Labor 140.00

Total 2 5% .55

 




v aw ~- ‘ «1., ”5-; " ‘ “mun-.nyw "'~!..‘...‘. wen...“ +--<'v.‘ Iﬁ‘ﬁhhu , 1- -»n.. H... ..,.e -: _.,.. -..' -.
. .. .. . .,T‘KY......-u-..-..‘..ua..'l',.V'..f-.~;mu.‘.-a.-.n.. :l'..Tt.....ahiﬁ'.4‘.}uu-JUL'1,...uiﬂiaus.m_3 '..m..wuun"u...'.._.-......I.‘ ._ ALL”, u..---...-. x. ,. .

571 ,

Wino

NOV 1 192.1

C

» AY
Pg‘lﬁ’gg‘g‘lm.‘ ABS DUPLICATING INC . 35} , 09; / 30

MM

 

 

 

QNEJHOU,SAND...-NINETX_THREE/ .3 O _ ___._____. Mﬂrﬂ D 0 LLAR S

v.“

Ervﬁrag ”Wurst A©Guzznrﬁer ((0%
Earrmany Newv'am @mmk W

‘ 1290 Ave. of the Americas at Rockefeller Ctr., MN. 10019

1501 BROADWAY

DIAL \VELFARE INSTITUTE
NEW YORK, N. Y. 10036

‘i‘HE BIRD BUSINESS
IDU.#122050/127076 I:DELO"'D

-\

Benn: LL CITE

.L L..'.""".'.'Y!“,'.'T. '44.). " ' ALL“)...T..‘lZ‘.".T-7"'3"' 1“3:_;;.11":'17"'3"." VA‘mLAJ; 1377",“? . 1.5.). "". . "1 >ALA7-bjs"... 1"" ” 2-.'L.|IL.'...'."7""" -""""

_ nuovo

RETD- ovuu u! (AW ('Czdfn. CHAN-6E; ACCT r )"t
a - ~J.. v
RETU-
DLSCH'pT|ON ' PRICE AMOUNT
DESC“”””0N rnucr Amouur

\
C
'l( 1'." ”"1 w" "‘- -' .5! ./ _, 4 ~ ‘ ' "-' *’ ' -

l

('1

TOTA

I
All claims and returned goods MUST be accompanied by this bill All cl . d TOTAL
.. m r. “ R d b . 0 arms on returned goods MUST be accompanied
A f " “N ec' M .4 “I A —~-
.“1 W6 OJ y ‘. ." 5"} ,~’ 5 Rec'd by

«L L. A
"503‘ ' 3" 5 Landry Forms Co, Arlington. VA Phone 524-2133
, ,. . m ,_ ._,.__. --- T15034
’. ~. C UR & E N T I 1 5" 3 o 3 0‘4 5 0 v E R . - 4 5 rﬂ~rmgafanz;;gv~ w . ”a "‘_' w". "."Sljmﬂfﬁ, “"JVE—uvrwrw ”a.“
EMWWT Qﬁ 159725 ‘PBbbo l L ."WWWW‘NJ ..».”wk wm— ‘
' ‘“ I ‘. - '~ 1 + l iggggs I “inasné‘
. . O _

,.. .
. y K

 

Duck & Landry Forms 00.. Arlington. VA Phone 52442133

 

h a _
ﬁrmware!

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

.,

It...

KM

"#442233

I“...

raff7¥Z
«- "2/0 3 (79 )5

ted/141' 4302’, '

. 7? /W?»?9 50 f If ﬁ/aIZ/J’a.
##3/3707’4. {L1,
*I/“v' .1 'H. " :5c>-'

I . 4‘97?

. /073, '3 0 ‘ .
"I _ I ,7 ;
" . ”I 7 l ‘3

r

 




, , 6/ W55 W

/7
0”?

 




 

 

5/. I ‘
To K», g

Date 830 Time ] {WI

WHILE YDU WEWE CUT
M 011519.; WWA --
of V (U (U P

Phone

 

Area Code Numby/ Extension

 

TELEPHONED %/ PLEASE CALL

 

CALLED TO SEE YOU ~ WILL CALL AGAIN

 

‘ WANTS TO SEE YOU URGENT

 

 

 

 

 

 

] RETURNEDYGUR CALL 1 I
Message waif m6! duck ﬂ)
JX/IM‘O JJA UM W14!

Wafk’ Out/”V h) M]

 

 

 

 

Operator

 

EFFICIENCY® LINE NO. 4725 AN AMPAD PRODUCT

 

 




BAILEY FOREIGN FREHBHT
1. FORWARDING AND cuerm: HQLJSE enema
19:32 LEBANBN smear 91 HYATTSVXLLE MARYLAND 213783
mun: (3m) 439-5400

MESSAGE

m [1111111111 hellﬁre Institute .
P136”; BOX 3650
Rasantcng 3.»...- ..C9 20007

LATIN lﬁgernager ..

0,111; 11 11121111111980 .,

‘11:.

near Cheryl! ., ..
1 4 2‘1 £1 ~ :31 ~ 11 11*111
Attached 15 the power of attorney card I mentioned

to you in our taepmne conversation.

‘ Reese have it complete by the correct persons and
returned to us in'the attach-ed post paid envelope.
Please can if you have any questions.

139 look‘ﬁormrd to doing; business with you. Thank
you.

Sincerely, 1”

f," f ’ _ g1 J
11115111111“ 1‘: / /

Import Coordinator

 

BY . . . , SIGNED
Form N-R73'é‘, The Drawing Board, Inc, Box 505. Dallas, TLXUS b
RECIPIENT KEEPTHIS CDPYyRETURN WHITE CDPYTO SENDER

 




SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
P. O. Box 3719
Georgetown Station
Washington, D. C. 20007

922512 June 17, 1976

Dear Humanitarian:
Thanks for writing.

Letters requested in the attached May 18th circular continue
to be badly needed. On May 26th the subcommittee reported the
Leggett bill, amended to require observers on all tuna boats over
400 tons. The bad features of the original bill remain. It must
be opposed.

All members of the Merchant Marine and Fisheries Committee
should hear from humanitarians Opposing H. R. 13865. Please be
sure to express your opposition to your own Representative, too.

The tuna industry appealed Judge Richey's ruling and was.
granted a stay so the killing of dolphins is continuing. Until
it is firmly prohibited, it will go on.

The nation's press is siding with the dolphins. If your newse
paper has not yet editorialized in their behalf, won't you please
send the enclosed reprints to the editor and ask him to write,too,
or to publish one of these. If he does, please send us a copy.

It would be helpful to send reprints to your Representative,too.
Let us know if you can use extra copies.

Thanks for everything you can do to help the dolphins!

Sincerely,

/' “'\
62,5; ”’77 » ) ~7‘.--“
/" I; - /( 7 7
ﬂp/Z/C.17 5 ”Cf Lg " 1/ (i L«¢.€’ '( C 7

Christine Stevens
Secretary

 




.. BAILEY .FBREIGN FREIGHT
i. FORWARDING AND CUBTQM HOUSE anon-:5!
19:32 LEBANQN smear . mnmvmm, MARYLAND 28783
man: (331) 439-5409

MESSAGE

TO [—WM “we Institute
Pct". BOX 3650 I
kashmgton. LCZOOW 5,. ._ ,5

mec 1M§ternaber~ e

0A5: 11Manber1980

, Sear Cheryl: WM
{a 4, I § .. W; ' f
Attached is the power of attorney card I mentioned
to you in our Elephane Conversation.

’Pléase have it complete by the correct persons and
roturned to us in the attached post paid envelope.
Please call if you have any questions.

w; lookﬁﬁorward to doing'business with you. Thank
you. . _

Sincerely,

Alié>/'“‘gennféé L45I,£;. //

Import Coordinator

 

BY I .1 . S I G N E D
Earm N7R73'F}: The Drawing Board, Imp, Box 505, Dallas, Texas

RECIPIENT KEEPTHIS COPY, RETURN WHITE CDPYTD SENDER

 




 




