To Biologists, Animal Protective Workers and Others Who Prefer Factual
Reporting to Propaganda:

The National Society for Medical Research Bulletin presented an editorial last month which 1) supports
the present management of the American Humane Association and 2) attacks me with a number of untrue
statements. These attacks reﬂect on the integrity of the Animal Welfare Institute and therefore require a pub-
lic answer.

The Board of Directors which the NSMR approves used the following techniques in order to win the election
referred to in the editorial: 1) Payment of travelling expenses for people who would vote their way, 2) Secret en-
rollment of members, 3) Disfranchisement of small member - societies which would not vote their way, and
4) Spreading of rumors that the independent candidates were Communist - supported. The unparallelled ruth-
lessness with which the annual business meeting was conducted prevented members who had travelled long
distances to attend it from obtaining the ﬂoor at any time. Parliamentary rules were unblushingly ﬂoured—for
example, the parliamentarian hired by the Board sat on the rostrum and publicly voted. Questions concerning
ﬁnances received no answers. The minutes of the last meeting were neither read nor made available. The request
that the balance sheet be sent to members was ﬂatly refused. The people brought in to vote in support of cur-
rent management, many of whom knew nothing whatever about animal protection, voted down a resolution

.... "Mew~~-»whieh~aslred~~that wereasonabl/e proportion of the annual expenditures “be devoted to animal protective work rather " "
than to such items as staff salaries, and travelling expense for the Board of Directors. One of the directors
whom they elected did not even attend the meeting. He had been a member of the Association for only a few
months and was one of a hundred - odd people secretly enrolled to pack an earlier meeting at which the Board
had hoped to seize absolute control of the Association. This meeting was cancelled by a Federal Court injunction.

This is the type of management which the NSMR supports. One may well ask, why it does so. And why
does it attack the Animal Welfare Institute? And why, in the process, does it take the trouble to make so many un-
truthful assertions? Following are two consecutive paragraphs from the editorial:

"This year the AV’s are presenting three more candidates for the 15 - man board including Christine Ste-
vens* of the Animal Welfare Institute.

"Meanwhile a committee of the American Humane Association has proposed a more fair, representative voting
system. A membership meeting was called for July 20 in Seattle, to consider the proposal. The anti-vivisectionists
obtained an injunction against the meeting on the grounds that Seattle was too remote to give AHA members a reason-
able chance to vote on such an important question.

“*Mrs. Stevens is no doctrinaire antivivisectionist but paradoxically her primary alliance is with the extremists rather
than the moderates 1n the humane movement. Every controversy to date has seen her incongruously associated with the move-
ment’s most picturesque characters.”

I should like to correct these allegations with the following facts: 1) The antivivisectionists did not present
me as a candidate for election. 2) The American Humane Association committee did not propose a "more fair
and representative voting system”. In fact it was so unfair that the AHA quickly withdrew it after being repri-
manded by the federal court for the illegal attempt to disfranchise about 90% of the membership. 3) The anti-
vivisectionists did not obtain the injunction, and 4)- the injunction was not issued on the grounds that Seattle was
too remote. 5) I am not an antivivisectionist, doctrinaire or otherwise. 6) The individuals in the humane move—
ment with whom I am closely associated are those who direct and execute the work of the two organizations with

which I am ofﬁcially connected: the Animal Welfare Institute and the Humane Society of Washtenaw County.
There is not one extremist among them.

To sum up:

THE ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE IS NOT ANTIVIVISECT ION IST, the proof of which is in its
publications and its work.

THE NATIONAL SOCIETY FOR MEDICAL RESEARCH IS CONDUCTING AN UNTRUTHFUL AND
UNSCRUPULOUS CAMPAIGN ATTACKING IT.

December 15, 1955 Christine Stevens

 




The ASPCA Today

From a century-old stormy startthe
ASPCA has become America’s largest hu-
mane society. It has inspired more than 600
anti-cruelty organizations or SPCA’s from
coast to coast and many others throughout
the world. Today the ASPCA’s five shel-
ters care for about 130,000 animals a year.
Its hospital annually examines and treats
some 20,000 animals. It is a leader in sup-
porting humane legislation. It cares for air-
borne animal travelers at its Animalport at
Kennedy International Airport. It helps keep
New York City streets free of strays. It
places some 13,000 pets in homes each year.
Its doors are never closed.

The ASPCA is a living memorial to
Henry Bergh’s revolutionary ambition of a
century ago to eliminate cruelty to animals
in America.

Bibliography

Coleman, Sydney H., Humane Society Leaders in.

America, The American Humane Assn., 1924

Harlow, Alvin F., Henry Bergh, Julian Messner,
'Inc.,1957

Steele, Zulma, Angel in Top Hat, Harper &
Brothers, 1942

Dictionary of American Biography, Charles Scrib-
ners Sons

Film
The Great M eddler, Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, 1935

THE AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR THE
PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

441 East 92nd Street ' New York, N. Y. 10028

 

‘Henry ‘Bergﬁ

FOUNDER OF THE ASPCA

 




‘Hmry ‘Bergé

1813 - 1888

Animals have played a signiﬁcant role in
the making of America. They have tilled the
soil, toted heavy freight loads, lugged street-
cars bulging with people and carried wagon
trains of American settlers across country.

But until a hundred years ago most men
treated a devoted dog or a patient, plodding
horse with no more consideration than a
wornout umbrella. Overburdened streetcar
horses were often beaten until they fell dead.

Then a century ago a single compassionate
crusader revolutionized the country’s attitude
with the startling idea that animals should be
protected. The man who stunned America
by championing animals was Henry Bergh.

Born in 1813, son of a wealthy New York
ship builder, Bergh spent his youth as a dilet-
tante. He tried writing plays and poetry, but
his work caused scarcely a ripple of atten-
tion. His friends knew him chieﬂy as a ﬂuent
linguist, a dashing Beau Brummel and an in-
veterate European traveler. In line with the
custom of appointing wealthy, well- bred men
to minor diplomatic posts, President Lincoln
in 1863 named Henry Bergh Secretary of the
American Legation in St. Petersburg, Russia.

An Explosive Spark

During his travels Bergh had seen circus
horses abused, dogs stoned and bulls stabbed
in the ﬁght ring. Undoubtedly an explosive
spark was ignited in Bergh on these trips.
But the embers smoldered beneath the sur-
face until he reached St. Petersburg.

One day the sight of a Russian droshky
driver viciously beating a tired, overburdened
horse so outraged his sense of justice that at
the age of 50 Henry Bergh suddenly switched
the course of his aimless life and embarked
on a stormy crusade which was to create a

,/

profound change in the moral conscience of
America.

A determined Bergh returned to the Uni-
ted States to battle cruelty to animals. He
waged a one-man ﬁght against cockﬁghting,
hunting, brutalities of coachmen and horse-
car drivers, horrors of the cattle market and
mistreatment of circus animals.

One-M an Crusade

Newspapers ridiculed him. Animal
owners, sportsmen, politicians and business-
men called him a madman. One label that
stuck was “the great meddler.” Stymied at
every turn in his solo ﬁght, Bergh whipped
up support among his prominent New York
friends for a statewide charter for The
American Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals.

Impressed by well-known names like
Mayor John T. Hoffman, Peter Cooper,
John Jacob Astor, Jr., James H. Roosevelt,
Hamilton Fish and Horace Greeley, the New
York State Legislature granted a charter
incorporating the ASPCA on April 10, 1866.

Nine days later the Legislature passed
the nation’s ﬁrst anti-cruelty law, making it
a misdemeanor to neglect, maliciously kill,
maim, wound, injure, torture or cruelly beat

any animal in New York State. The ASPCA

was given police power to enforce the law.

In high hat and spats and wielding his
jaunty cane, Bergh pursued horse beaters all
over New York City, invoking the new law.
He brought charges against promoters of
dogﬁghts, cockﬁghts, rat-baiters and bear-
baiters. Gradually Henry Bergh’s idea that
animals should be protected from cruelty
reached out and touched the hearts and con-
sciences of New Yorkers. When Bergh died
22 years later he and his agents, known as
Bergh’s men, had, gained respect as law-
enforcers, and kindness to animals had begun
to take root as an acceptable way of life.

 




2100 L Street N .W.

Editorial Office (USA)
Washington, D.C. 20037

In”
G
"I
pp.
5"
(D
m
pp.
5
G:
‘<
G
pg
>
E.
5
93..
w
"I
G
E
(D
E
m

 

International Journal

 

 

“A heady blend
of philosophy,
ethics, biology
and solid

research

'9?“

 

 

Purpose

In recent years, our view of how we ought
to interrelate with the animals that share
our earth has undergone a dramatic change.
The inﬂuences that have motivated this
change come from a number of sources.
We have a better understanding of the
complex relations that govern our depen-
dence on other species in the ecosystem.
At the same time, philosophers have chal-
lenged the reasons why we draw moral
distinctions between ourselves and other
animals.

We also know more about animals than
we used to. Studies of animals, both in
the wild and in domestic environments,
have revealed to us the diversity and com-
plexity of animal behavior and physiolo-
gy. With this knowledge comes a need to
re-examine how we think about animals,
how we treat them, and how we can direct
our efforts so that the well-being of both
humans and animals can be maximized.
Surely we can improve the lot of research
and farm animals without compromising
human needs. And if we cannot, we must
ﬁnd equitable ways to balance the respec-
tive requirements of humans and animals.

The International Journal for the
Study of Animal Problems is a scholarly
publication that aims at increasing our
basic knowledge about the totality of ani-
mal needs—physical, behavioral, environ-
mental. It also explores the social and po-
litical factors behind the exploitation of
animals in modern society.

Therefore, to advance the state of our
knowledge in such a multifaceted area as
animal welfare, the Journal draws upon a
broad spectrum of disciplines, including

 

‘ National Farmer — Australia

 

 

philosophy, animal science, veterinary med-
icine, ethology, social psychology, wildlife
biology, and psychology.

Using the new data and perspectives
provided in the Journal, we can begin to
theorize about the best ways to improve
the welfare of animals and to arrive at
some concrete conclusions about our de-
gree of responsibility toward them.

Come nt

The Journal serves as a vehicle for a wide
range of professions, with scholarly arti-
cles, analyses of recent events and trends,
and statements of diverse opinion on the
many issues that bear upon animal welfare.
Thus, philosophy, ethics, agricultural sci-
ence, the legislative process, pharmacolo-
gy, physiology, ethology and engineering
all find a place in the Journal.

However, the main focus of the publi-
cation remains the same—to understand
the essential nature of each species of ani-
mal, including human beings, and to appre-
ciate better what elements make up the
best kinds of environmental conditions to
promote its total well-being.

 

 




 

The Journal has an international ori-
entation for several reasons. First, prob-
lems of animals, obviously, do not end at
any one country’s borders. Second, a com-
parison of the attitudes toward animals
among nations affords a valuable perspec-
tive on the effects of specific national his-
tory and culture on animal welfare. Final-
ly, the various countries differ widely in
their willingness and ability to formulate
specific policy and legislation for protec-
tion of animals; one nation’s work can
serve as a model for others.

The content of the Journal is intelli-
gent and technically sophisticated, but ex-
pressed in plain language—so that read-
ers with different sorts of backgrounds
can understand and make use of the infor-
mation presented.

F ormat

To express the broad range of studies and
opinion on animal welfare, and to keep
our readers up-to-date in areas such as ex-
perimental results, new techniques, and
recent legislation, the Journal is divided
into several departments. Here is a list of
these, with some recent titles:

0 Letters to the Editor

0 Editorials

Toward a Science of Animal Welfare—
F.M. Loew

The Beneﬁts of Tender Loving Care—
W.B. Gross

Advocacy, Objectivity, and the Draize
Test— P. Singer

0 News and Analysis
Seabird Mortality: Biology and Politics
Local Anesthetics for the Draize Test

0 Comment
A Strategy for Dog-Owner Education—
I. Dunbar

 

 

 

The Role and Responsibility of Zoos—An
Animal Protection Viewpoint—J.E.
Cooper

Abnormal Behavior as an Indication of
Immaterial Suffering—H.H. Sambraus

0 Original and Review Articles

Attitudes Toward Animal Suffering—J.
and V. Braithwaite

Stress: What Is It and How Can It Be
Quantified? —T.H. Friend

American Attitudes Toward and
Knowledge of Animals: An Update—
S.R. Kellert

' Legislation and Regulation

Horse Racing and Drug Abuse

New U.K. Proposal on Lab Animals

Comparison of French and (1.8. Animal
Welfare Policies

The Law in Sweden

0 Meetings and Announcements
Includes reports of scientific meetings
and workshops around the world, a
calendar of forthcoming meetings, and
general announcements.

0 Book News

A Few

Excerpts . ..

The primary mission of the Journal is a
more thorough understanding of animals
and the best ways that humans can relate
to them—without resorting to anthropocen-
tric projections of what we might think
the animals need or want. While this task
entails precise and controlled scientific
studies in areas like animal physiology
and behavior, it also inevitably includes
some fascinating speculation on a number
of complex issues. Some examples:

 

 

“I do not think that there are any morally
relevant differences which license as to
exclude animals in general from moral
consideration in what we do, while we in-
clude people...animals have natures, have
a telos in Aristotle’s phrase, in just the
same way that humans do.”—B. Rollin
(Colorado State University)

“There are likely to be large adjustment
costs borne by producers as existing pro-
duction systems are discarded in favor of
those advocated by animal groups. These
less intensive forms of farming may re-
sult in a completely different pattern of
labor and capital use. ”— F. Turner and J.
Strak (University of Manchester, U.K.)

“As in other areas, there is a fundamental
change in public concern for animals in re-
search. The public awareness is shifting
from questions of housing, care and feed-
ing... to profound ethical questions about
the use of animals in research”— T.E. Ma-
lone (National Institutes of Health)

“I am absolutely committed to the princi-
ple that animal research is in the best in-
terest of both man and animals. ”-— J. Rus-
sell Lindsey (University of Alabama)

“It seems that the public will accept that
a human has killed an animal which is then
offered for food, but cannot tolerate the
idea of a tiger killing its own prey. ”—D.
Hancocks (Woodland Park Zoo)

“Taken alone, productivity cannot be re-
garded as a reliable indicator of animal wel-
fare. Assessment of animal welfare entails
an analysis of many factors, including
health status, disease incidence, longevi-
ty, and physiological and behavioral in-
dices. This is the complexity that makes
the science of animal welfare a challeng-
ing interdisciplinary subject.”—M.W. Fox
(ISAP)

 

 

Order Form

U.K./Foreign US.

[:1 Institutional—$55/£25 [:1 $45
D Individual—$30/E15 El $25
D Student—$22.50/E9 D $17.50
I] Airmail postage $6/£2.50 extra

El Send sample copy

One volume, published quarterly (4 issues)
Check enclosed $

(Make check payable in US. funds on
US. bank to: HSUS for ISAP.)

(Rates effective April 1982)

 

NAME
INSTITUTE

ADDRESS
CITY
STATE
ZIP

COUNTRY

 

 

In Australia, for further information
contact Elizabeth Ahlston, Australian
Association for Humane Research, PO.
Box 356, Broadway, New South Wales,
2007

In U.K. contact David Wilkins, RSPCA,
The Causeway, Horsham, Sussex, RH12
lHG, U.K.

The Institute for the Study of Animal
Problems, 2100 L Street, N .W.,
Washington, DC. 20037, USA

 

 




