THE

BLUNDERS OF A BISHOP.-

A REPLY TO THE RESEARCH
DEFENCE SOCIETY.

By WALTER R. HADWEN, M.D., &c., J.P.

“ We may well invoke the Divine blessing upon the labours of men,
who, working for the extension of human knowledge, may ﬁnd themselves
crowned with the glory of the world’s united gratitude for the eradica—
tion oflsome such fell disease and for the deliverance of human life from
one ofﬂits deadliest foes. But, whether rewarded with such success or
not, they work for the good of their fellow men ; their life is spent in
diligent and scientiﬁc search, and their guest is truth.”

WITH the above words the Bishop of Winchester
closes a remarkable pamphlet, written under
the title of “ The Truth about Vivisection:

The National Welfare,” and published by the
Research Defence Society. The hon. secretary of
the latter Society repeatedly declares that his Society
was established for the purpose of justifying its claim
to a monopoly of “ truth,” and for the exposure of
the falsehoods of his opponents. It is, therefore,
strange that he and his committee should accept the
responsibility of an essay which presents not only
complete ignorance of the very elements of the subject
upon which the writer authoritatively descants, but
which, in its absence of truth and in the circulation
of falsehood, can but bring discredit not only upon the

Society and its ostentatious pretensions, but upon the

sacred profession to which the author belongs.

 




 

ANZESTHETICS, ANTIsEPTIos, AND SMALL—Pox.

The Bishop declares : “ It is perhaps rash for any—
one who has no ﬁrst—hand acquaintance with such a
subject to venture upon the expression of an opinion,”
but he considers that such a person is justiﬁed in ex—
pressing an opinion because of what has been accom-
plished by anaesthetics and vantiseptics ; and he goes
on to assert that these, with other “ great discoveries
. . . have been obtained with the aid of observation
and experiments in which vivisection has been in—
cluded.” Had his lordship been a little less “ rash,”
and a little more particular in cultivating a “ ﬁrst-
hand aequaintance ” with simple historical facts
which are open to any layman, he would have learned
that every respirable anaesthetic was disCovered and
perfected without the aid of vivisection at all, and that

the “ antiseptic treatment ” he boasts of has been'

long ago discarded as both useless and dangerous,
its place having been taken by the simple process of
asepticism, the author of which———Semmelweis——de—
clined to countenance experiments upon living animals.

His lordship proceeds to appeal to “ any thoughtful
person ” to “ compare the account of what small-
pox was in our country a century ago with what it
is now.” But had the writer exercised the “ thought-
fulness ” he urges upon others, he might have asked
himself why it is that the “ sweating sickness ” and
the “black death ” and the “ plague ” and the
typhus or gaol-fever, which also ravaged England a
century ago, have all disappeared, although no J en-
nerian vaccine rite was called in to assist in their
removal ; soap and water and the whitewash brush,
free ventilation, and obedience to sanitary laws
were found amply sufﬁcient for the purpose. And
small-pox—the last relic of these fell diseases—would
probably have gone, too, for similar reasons, but for
the stamping-in process of vaccination, whereby the
disease has been kept alive. And had the Bishop
inquired further, he would have found that the fatality
from small-pox since vaccination was discovered has

 

 

 




 

 

 

( 3 )
been greater than at any preceding period recorded,
and that the disease has only declined since the common
sense of the people rebelled against the superstitious
rite. It is noteworthy that to-day,with less vaccina-
tion than during the last half-century, there is less

small-pox than has been known since the Compulsory
Vaccination Acts came into force. '

BABIES, DIPHTHERIA, MALARIA, AND MALTA FEVER.

“ Let him think,” says the Bishop, “ of the extras
ordinary measure of success which has attended the
quite modern treatment of rabies . . . the modern.
methods of combating diphtheria, or malaria and
Malta fever.” Had his lordship himself done the
thinking, and exercised just a little independent
searching into the historical facts, he would have
discovered, to his dismay, that it is impossible to prove
that one single life has ever been saved by the Pas-
teurian treatment for rabies, and he would have dis-
covered, instead, that more than 2,000 persons had

,succumbed to the disease, although they had been

previously “ protected ” against its venom.

By the same process of thinking and searching
he would have learned that since the “ modern method ”
of antitoxin was introduced, the death—rate from

. diphtheria was greater than it had ever been in the

registered history of the disease, and that the lowered
death-rate in hospitals had only been secured by the
watering-down process of counting in thousands of
cases of “ bacteriological diphtheria ” with the genuine
clinical malady.

And had the Bishop only “ thought ” and studied
“ ﬁrst-hand ” he would have learned, to his surprise,
that the “ modernmethod ” of getting rid of malaria
was precisely the same as that taught by our great-
great-grandfathers generations before the silly experi-
ments with mosquitoes were indulged in, namely, by
draining the swamps which bred them.

And if his professed penchant for “ thoughtfulness ”
and love of truth had been put into exercise, he would
have also found that Malta fever had practically dis—
appeared from the Army months before Colonel

 

 

 




 

l 4 >

Bruce‘ys method of prohibiting goat’s milk had been
resorted to, in consequence of the simple expedient
of removing the soldiers from a veritable pest-house
reeking with sewage efﬂuvia within, and bounded
by moats of sewage without, to healthy barracks on
the hillside of our Mediterranean dependency; and
that it has been gradually declining in the Navy
year by year for twelve years in proportion as the Grand
Harbour was dredged of its centuries of accumulated
excreta.

BLOOD CIRCULATION AND PAIN.

In direct opposition to the physical impossibility and
to Harvey’s deliberate contradiction of his discovery of
* the circulation of the blood by means of vivisection,
the Bishop goes on in grandiloquent language to ascribe
to him a means of discovery he never claimed for him-
self, and to link with his the names of Jenner, Lister,
and Pasteur, whose work I have already shown to
have been” discredited by the stern realities of practical
experience. ~

With an ignorance that is amazing in its bland
simplicity, his lordship goes on to state that

legislation has rightly interfered to prevent the perpetration
of acts of cruelty. Only those who have been licensed can now
conduct such experiments, and, even so, under conditions which
impose due precautions against the inﬂiction of pain.

Had this high ecclesiastic been a little less “ rash,”
in view of his confession that he had “ no ﬁrst-hand
acquaintance with such a subject,” before committing
himself to statements which the merest tyro must be
amazed at, he would have studied the confessions of
the Chief Government Inspector, Professor Thane, and
would have learned that (457)“great pain and suffering”
and (1550) “ severe suffering while under observation
after the experiment ” is the lot of helpless doomed
creatures, whose living bodies his lordship deems it
right to experiment upon in the name of “ true wisdom
and true humanity ” ! Has he never read the dictum
of Dr. George Wilson (one of the members of the Royal
Commission) :— . -

 




 

(is?

I accuSe my profession of misleading the public :as to the cruelties
and horrors which are perpetrated on animal life ‘2

Has he never read the evidence of Professor Pembrey
before the Royal Commission :—

I think that painful experiments are necessary; I mean painful
experiments as against experiments under anaesthetics. A common-
sense view should be taken of this subject, and pain must be ad-
mitted. I admit that I have done painful experiments, and I
am not ashamed of it. They are absolutely necessary.

And yet the Bishop talks of

rats and mice and guinea-pigs and dogs and cats that .
may not unreasonably be selected in order to be subjected to the
painless conditions secured by modern anaesthetics.

And this in spite of the fact that over 80,000 experi-
ments, many of them of the most cruel and painful
' character, were performed last year without any

anaesthetic at all. And what must be thought of
Mr. Stephen Paget and the Research Defence Society
deliberately scattering these reckless, misleading, and

culpably ignorant assertions broadcast through the ,
country ? .

BENEFITS TO THE ANIMALS.

As if all the foregoing errors as to the relation of
r : vivisection to the human species were not sufﬁcient,
' his lordship goes blindly on to claim that ' 5..., ,-

animals themselves, in an abundant and steadily increasing

degree, have shared in the beneﬁcial results of man’s extended
knowledge.

His ﬁrst illustration is ' what Dominic Sampson
would call “ prodigious ” !

In the former days (he says) there were wont to be scores of
victims of rabies among the lower animals for any single case
among men, women or children. In the present day, protection
against so dreadful a peril has been won for all living creatures.

This out-Herods Herod ! Not even Pasteur himself,
with all his bombast and self-advertisement, ever made
such a claim ! Pasteur’s only demand as to the living
animals was to take care that an alleged mad dog should
be promptly killed outright ; he was evidently afraid lest

 




 

 

(6)

the “ mad ” dog might eventually live and the “ cured ”
victim might die, so after one or two unpleasant
experiences in that direction, he took good care when—
ever possible to keep on the safe side. And as to
“ protecting against ” the disease, Pasteur never made
any such claim either on behalf of animals or man;
he only professed to neutralise the effect of the virus
when it had already entered the system. Moreover,
when the Bishop travels into the sphere of statistics he
is particularly unfortunate, for there is not a solitary
table in existence to justify his assertion as to the
relative proportion of rabies in the animal and human

species.
He passes on with the same fatally irresponsible
ease to declare that “ anthrax . . . . that once used

to decimate ﬂocks and herds” has been combated "‘ by
a weapon of efﬁcacy.” Had his lordship but done
a little elementary “ thinking ’ and study before he
sat down to instruct other people, he would have
discovered, to his amazement, that the “ weapon
of efﬁcacy” is disallowed by our own Board of
Agriculture, that it is denounced by practically all
European authorities, and that the only result achieved
by the “ protective inoculation ” he acclaims has been
to kill half the animals experimented upon, and to
poison the other half, unless administered in such
strength as to be futile in producing any result one way
or the other.

TRIUMPHS IN RELATION TO FOOD.

The Bishop’s panegyric on tuberculin as a test for
diseased cattle after its ghastly failure with human
beings may be a sublime example of “faith,” but a
poor exhibition of either “ thought ” or investigation.
It may interest his lordship to know that such are its
chimerical virtues that if a beast be badly affected by
tuberculosis, there is no reaction at all when tuberculin
is administered ; whereas an animal which is free from
the disease will react if it has any other ailment;
whilst in hot summer weather an animal will react when
it has nothing the matter with it! If an animal has

 

 




 

3"

 

 

 

(7)

had tuberculosis and recovered, the tuberculin will
start the disease afresh. Even the Metropolitan
Asylums Board have discontinued its use as a test.
Mr. Stockman told the Royal Commission (3170-2):

5“ It could not be applied with certain results to the

Cattle in a show-yard or in the market . . . They
might react and leave you in doubt even though not

tuberculOus.” The Bishop was quite right when he
declared :—

It is, perhaps, rash for anyone who has no ﬁrst-hand acquaintance
with a subject to venture upon the expression of an opinion.

His lordship, having concluded this long list of
blunders which would have been inexcusable in any
schoolboy who made a pretence of having studied the
subject upon which he professed to write, goes on, by
a method as illogical as it is erroneous, to defend vivi-
section upon the ground that the killing of animals for
food, and the use of the products of skins and feathers
for boots and buttons and clothing, were needful to the
requirements of mankind. But there is no analogy,
as has been pointed out, between the swift destruction
of an animal and its prolonged torture. Where furs
and feathers are obtained by a process of cruelty, it
behoves every Anti-vivisectionist to denounce the
practice as keenly as he would the work of the vivi-
section laboratory. But I would remind the Bishop
that cruelty in one direction is no warrant for cruelty
in another, no matter how beneﬁcent the object may
be.

Nor are the horrors perpetrated during the excite-
ment and terror of the battle-ﬁeld, which he provides
as an excuse and argument, any warrant for the cool
and calculated tortures of the scientist’s Inquisition
upon dumb and helpless animals within the secluded
area of the licensed premises of the vivisector. p

A SCANDAL UPON CHRISTIANITY.

The Bishop looks with hope to the discovery of
remedies for cancer and consumption by similar
reprehensible means to those he has adumbrated

 

 

 




 

(8)

in his pamphlet, but the failures which have crowned
. the past present no basis of hope for the future. And
to close by “ invoking the Divine blessing ” upon
practices which sap the moral ﬁbre of every person
engaged in them, and which must ﬁll with horror the
soul of every thoughtful person not absolutely blind or
ignorant of the truth, is an act which from, such a
source, and in relation to such enormities, one Can only
view as little short of blasphemy.

It 1s certainly a sign of the decadence of the age in
which we live when we ﬁnd a man who holds the high
position of an ofﬁcialexponent of truth and humanity,
and of the teachings of the gentle Man of Nazareth,
sitting down to write an essay in favour of one of the
most shocking travesties of all that is Christlike which
has been witnessed in modern times, and perpetrating
the public scandal, not only of basing his Opinions
upon a foundation of ignorance of the most deplorable
description, but of propagating falsehood and mis-
representation which are a discredit both to the ofﬁce
of a bishop and to the man who holds it.

I commend to his lordship the searching words

of a nobler religious teacher, Bishop Westcott, who
said :—

If He who made us made all other creatures also, and if they
ﬁnd a place in His providential plan, if His tender mercies reach
to them—and this we Christians most certainly believe—then I
ﬁnd it absolutely inconceivable that He should have so arranged
the avenues of knowledge that we can attain to truths which it
is His will that we should master only through the unutterable
agonies of beings which trust in us.

THE BRITISH UNION FOR THE ABOLITION OF VIVISECTION,
32, Charing Cross, London, S.W.

 

 

 

W. SPEAIGHT dz SONS. PRINTERS, FETTER LANE. LONDON. E.C.

 




