SLAUGHTER OF BEAUTY:

OTTER HUNTING.

BY
JOHN TUNNARD.

1

OTT I“ RS Colgvrzg/zt, DOUGLAS ENGLISH .

THE NATIONAL SOCIETY FOR THE ABOLITION
OF CRUEL SPORTS
4 Tavistock Square. London, W.C.1.
1935

Price One Penny.

 

 




 

SLAUGHTER OF BEAUTY:
OTTER HUNTING.

“I would. have Mr. Landseer before he gives us any more
writhing otters or yelping packs, reﬂect whether that which is
best worthy of contemplation in a hound be its ferocity, or in an
otter its agony, or in a human being its Victory over a poor little
ﬁsh—catching creature.”

John Ruskin in “i/Uotlern l’uiulm's,” II (1816,.

“The Earl of Plymouth, at \Vorcester, presented Mr. Arthur
Jones, late Master of the ‘Vorcestershire Hunt, with a painting,
‘ The Death of the Fox.’ Lord Plymouth recalled that Mr. Jones
was Master of the Hunt for thirty-three years and was also Master
of the Northern Counties Otter Hounds and the. Bucks Otter
Hounds. This year he had killed his 1(l()()th otter on the VVye ’°

Birmiv’zgham Gazette, July 22, 1929.

GENE : A river bank in any county in England or Wales.

- l t is 10.30 am. on any weekday, and it is spring—the

beginning of life for most creatures, but the end for some.

A man and woman, clad in red and blue uniforms, lean on
long poles into which they have cut many notches.

T/ze mun .' I 803/ ." u/mt a uun'z‘elloux moru'fugh/ux/ like summer .'

T/ze urouum: Raf/(er! This is like beef time off/1e year, (/0117
you Min/c .9 Hare you [NW/Tl (mg/ﬂung .9

T/u' mun : Yes, and I f/zzfu/r u'e s/zull //((Z'I‘ (1 good (/ug/ by file 100/."
of f/u'ugs. Old Sout, f/ze /.'e(y/er,.s-ug/~ lze’x lzere ul/ Hold—padded
lu'm early {Ms morning. Sag/x he sau‘ u‘lzere he’d been out mu!
rolled on flu: grass; it was SM] (ref. 1107/ be bound to be
of JlIorgun’a JUN]. I u'our/er Izou‘ muuy me 2177/ HI! t/u’s yea-r
((-omzﬂug Note/[es on Ms pole). Let’s see -61, 62, 63, 103/
season, and I u‘us ouz‘ near/y e/‘erg/ I‘mze.

T/re 2001mm .' You. did 7001']: [um], poor dear. I)" if lmdn’f been
for you they would often, not hare lei/led. You Mooe/f/zirstg/ 0M
ruse/(l, y/ou f—l/u, bu, 1m! Well, uuyieou', I hope we “ﬁnd ’"
fo-(Iay. Sue/1 (I per/'eef/g/ gorgeous (lug/for u m'ee long lz-unt .'

 

.9, Aﬂglmmv’y. 4. A

 

 




 

3

PRING, a river bank, ladies’ smocks growing in the
meadow and golden celandines climbing the bank to
the hedge, crowned with blackthorn sprays. What a
morning for a hunt I One hardly dares to pick a single ﬂower
for fear of disturbing the balance and harmony of the scene,
and yet under this sun men and women congregate to take
an otter’s life from him. They are here to “ have fun with
him”; after he is too exhausted to give them any more
“ fun,” they will kill him.

Perhaps they will say that, because the otter is not to be
seen by day—for he is the shyest of animals—no-one will
miss him. But then they can have no imagination, these
hunting folk, for surely it is better to think of him lying
snugly among the long White grass of the withy bed on this
sunny day than to know that his body lies scattered over the
meadow.

If they did not kill him, he would be out at night to ﬁsh
in the stream by moonlight and he would play with his mate,
sliding down the steep banks into the pool, climbing up again
and again, and merrily tobogganing into the silver water.

But they must have “ fun ” with him, and it’s an English
sport. Besides, it is very pleasant to have farmers, keepers
and labourers touching their caps to you at the “meet,” and
the etiquette of the hunting ﬁeld gives you the chance to
exercise your knowledge.

I am sure that the desire to kill one of the most lovable
of our creatures would be the last thought to enter the minds
of the great majority of men and women in this country,
especially at this time of the year, and, in particular, the
minds of the townsmen, who are invariably the kinder and
more sensitive towards animals. Throughout the bleak
winter foxes have been continually harassed by hounds and
men. Every man in every ﬁeld has for months been a
dangerous foe, to greet them with a blood-curdling yell,
while they have heard the “View halloa” of the hunting
men and women, and even the little children have been
taught to run to their garden walls and to urge the hounds
on to the quarry.

 




 

4

Now that spring strides on into summer through this
most pleasant island, most people will have a rather com-
fortable feeling that the foxes and all the other hunted wild
creatures will have a chance to bring up their offspring and
to play with them in the warm sunshine for at least ﬁve or
six. months unmolested.

A CONVERT’S TESTIMONY;

But the otter hunter has come forth in his blue and red
uniform. He has arrived in his motor car to bring about
the complete destruction of the otter’s paradise of spring
among the reed beds. He has come to this social gathering
on the river bank to watch hounds tear the otter to pieces on
the meadow grass and splatter the blood over (sowslips and
cuckoo ﬂowers.

I will regret to the end of my days, that I, when younger,
for many seasons, hunted the otter. I had been brought up
to think that unless one hunted everything living, one was
not a sportsman, and those who were not sportsmen were not
worth talking to, or even knowing! '

But I am a convert, and as such I can speak with
authority against my old religion. I have left the ranks of
the gun, trap, and hound gang, to become a member of the
ﬁeld-glass and telescope community, which is, I am so glad
to see growing rapidly in membership.

Like all converts, I am rabid about my own religion.
But then, I know what happens at ‘otter hunts.

I have done the most unspeakably cruel things on many
mornings. Standing in the water as one of a party forming
a “ stickle,” I have prevented an otter, completely exhausted
after two hours’ continuous harassing, from regaining the
deep water, where he would be safe. I cannot bear to think
of this.

Do those who still hunt the otter think ? It is a question
they should answer themselves. I once knew, very well, a
certain Master of Otter Hounds who kept in the house a tame
otter, of which he became very fond. Yet he went out three
days a week to kill its brothers.

 




5

For the beneﬁt of the great majority of peoplewho have
never seen an otter hunt, I will give a short account of a
typical South Country hunt. I will not exaggerate and I
will not mention any of the viler practices often used by
Masters. I will not let this otter be the mother of cubs, I
will not use parafﬁn to smoke my otter out of his hole in the
river bank, into which he has managed to crawl after two
hours’ hard ﬁghting against 40 humans, 12:,- brace of hounds
and three terriers. Nor will I allow the Master to get the
miller to open the sluice gates so as to make less water above
the mill, where the otter may be killed in nothing more than
a trickle of water through mud banks. I. will give you an
ordinary hunt.

FINDING THE PREY

After an hour’s walk upstream from the “meet,” hounds
suddenly strike the fresh “drag”——this is the scent left by
the otter in his night’s ﬁshing, and it grows stronger and
stronger at every bend of the river.

Hounds quicken their pace, their voices become deeper
and deeper. The river here is bordered by reed beds and
osiers on the one side and grassy meadows on the other. There
are deep pools and there are shallows—a typical Sussex trout
stream.

Hounds now swim the centre of a deep pool. All of them
give tongue. l’eople rush on.

“Don’t chop him,” yells the Master, “Let him have a
chance ” (27.6., let us have a hunt).

A view holloa. The otter has been “ put down,” dislodged
from his hiding in the reeds and scrub of the bank. He has
been seen by a member of the hunt when he came up to
breathe, as he swam under water in front of the hounds.

From now on all is confusion. Instructions are given by
the Master and members. People must watch the water.
“ Under that bush is a good place. Keep him on the move 3 ”

“ Some of you get on a bend there. Watch for him going
over the shallows there! ”

“ Someone watch that side ditch.”

 




 

6

Everyone is watching for one small brown animal.
Ludicrous I

The water is soon. churned into a muddy soup, in which
the otter is seen every now and again.

Hounds are taken by the huntsman up and down, up and
down the stretch of pool.

“ He’s gone over the shallows without being seen. Try
on! Try on! ” Cars have come along the road, a ﬁeld
away, driven by chauffeurs, and their masters repair thither
for drinks until things get more exciting again.

A hound comes out of the trampled reed bed, crunching
up a. moorhen that it has caught on its nest of eight spotted
eggs. Another hound emerges chewing a rabbit, a mother
suckling young. The reed bed is laid waste.

A view holloa and a. blast on the horn. The otter is
back in the pool again. “Keep quiet there, can't you,”
yells the Master. “ Keep away from the bank there,
you I Can’t you see we must get him over the shallows into
the chain of small pools above ? ”

More churning up of the mud, and at last the otter is
seen going over the shallows.

Immediately a “stickle”———a line of men and women,
knee to knee across the shallows—is formed to keep him
from getting back to the deeper water.

 

THE KILL.

The otter is hard pressed in the shallow water. Every
time he comes up to breathe under some overhanging bush,
he is yelled at. At last, choked with mud, in desperation
he takes to land, in a last eﬁort to cross the ﬁeld back to the
osier bed. Anything is better than this muddy inferno.
He is seen as soon as he leaves the water, and halfway
across the ﬁeld he is easily overtaken by the bounds.

They are like mad things, worrying, pulling. The otter,
having a very thick skin, dies slowly—screaming . . . amid
the jaws, steam and stench of the hounds.

“ Oh, I always look the other way at a kill,” one hard

 

 

 

 




 

7

hunting woman remarks to her friend, “ I can’t bear to see
the poor dear being killed.”

But she has yelled herself hoarse during the hunt, When-
ever she has seen the otter. It was she Who prevented him
from taking that long breath, and forced him down into
the muddy water again, just before he took to land. Now
she must turn her head away I

Men Wipe the blood from their hands and from their
uniforms. A boy and girl, aged fourteen and eleven respect-
ively, have seen their first otter killed, so the Master smears
blood from the otter over their faces and presents to each. a
still warm, limp “ pad,” cut from that little mangled body
on the grass.

They leave behind a smashed and trampled river bank,
a ﬁeld rank with the blood of young things and old, and
a river mourning the loss of one of its most beautiful
creatures.

[Iﬁepl'z'nz‘rd by permisszo/zfrom “T/ze 0,-{2fbrd JIM? ”
0f132‘k June, 1935.]

LONDHNZ S'I'RANGIQVAVS, PRINTERS.

 




 

Publications
of the

National Society for the Abolition-
of Cruel Sports

THE COST OF A FOX. By Charles Oldham,F.L.S. Id.
WHO ARE THE KILL—JOYS? By Henry S. Salt. Id.
DRAG HUNTING. By Basil Tozer. 3d. post free.

THE BEASTS THAT PERISH. AWest—Country Sketch.
By A. L. Salmon. Third Edition. 2d. post free.

GENTLEMEN VERSUS FOX. By A. P. Herbert. Id.

WHAT SHALL IT PROFIT? The Economics of Hunting.
By H. G. Chancellor. 2d.

A—HUNTING WE \WILL GO. Three poems. By Henry
S. Salt. Id.

IN ENGLAND—NOW. (Stag-hunting.) Id.

IN AT THE DEATH: Freeman on Cruelty in Sport. Id.

ETON COLLEGE HARE- HUNT: A Protest and a
Memorial. Gratis.

THE HUNTING OF THE STAG. By Edith Ward. 5d.

HARE AND HOUNDS. By Allan Monkhouse. Id.

THE CASE AGAINST COURSING. By T. E. B. Clarke. Id.

OTTER-HUNTING. By John Tunnard. Id.

DIGGING-OUT AND EARTH—STOPPING. By Lady
Rolleston. 2d. -

“Junior Series ” Leaflets :
(1) What do Young People think about hunting
(Animals?
(2) Hunting the Fox to Death.
(3) The Gentle Deer and the Gentle Men.
(4) The Coursing of ﬂares and Rabbits.
(5) Is Otter-hunting Fair Sport?
(6) The Cruelty of Shooting.

Price Id. ear/1. or 25 (0151765 for 15.

NATIONAL SOCIETY FOR THE ABOLITION OF
CRUEL SPORTS,
4 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. I.
Information from the Secretary.

 

 

 

Publication No. 2 5]

 




