Enclosure "0.47.. ..to despatch No 2.7.1620; ...(.‘lill’.it§:..

, - from the Embassvac London. Emma. ,
-NATURE’S cHECKs AND BALANCES;

DO we think of animals as creatures who are intended only or mainly

to serve our convenience and pleasure, to provide us with food and
clothing,‘to spend their lives in labour for-us, to be hunted and. harassed »'
and worried to their death or to be subject to. lifelong conﬁnement for our
education and entertainment? “ . ‘ ‘

 

If we regard them as created for these and other human ends,
can we have considered them as living, feeling, intelligent creatures to ‘
whom life is dear, to Whom freedom to move among their own kind
within their natural environment is the breath of life—as creatures. who
love their young and are ready to defend them from attack and injury at

the cost of their own lives? , .

These are some of the observed and established facts about animal
life and feeling, as we may learn from those who have "studied the life. ‘
and. conduct pf animals in. their natural, haunts. They are facts the truth'

' of which we can, to some extent atleast, test for ourselves in so far as We
make sympathetic and patient contact with the animals in our own homes
and the surrounding countryside. ' - , -a»

, Equally challenging is the factthat every species has its appointed
place and natural function in Nature’s great scheme of wildlife inwhich
its value to man. may he .of but secondary im ortance to its, value to other
creatures. A particular species may appear to he of little use to man.
The leopard, for instance, has his place and function in the great
scheme of things. ' He is, indeed, as F. W. Champion explains in his -
hook, “ The Jungle in Sunlight and Shadow,” 3 very important unit in
the scheme of life in India. There, deer and Wildphogs abound; they
increase so rapidly and are so voracious that they would consume all the
available food inside the forests, and the other animals would starve.
The leopard is one of the natural. checks on the undue increase of deer
and wild hogs. ‘ V ' ‘ ' ‘i

v

x

‘ Animals have their own 'place in Nature’s scheme and function—a
place and function we shall most certainly fail to understand if We’are’
only concerned with the short-sighted'question “ Of what use are they
to man?” ‘ ‘ -’ "

In Nature’s scheme man is only one of the animals—and is as’
much subject to Nature’s laws ,as the rest of them. 'But he has
unhappily not recognised this in many of his dealings with the
animal world, either because he. chooses to ignore it in pursuit of his
proﬁt and pleasure‘and sport, 0r because he does not use his intelli-
gence to look far enough ahead to consider what the long-term results-

* of his actions are likely to he“. For’the proﬁt or, pleasure of the moment
he will mortgage and sacriﬁce the future in disregard or deﬁance of
the law—As a man soWeth so shall he also“ reap. Especially has he
been found wanting in relation to the principle of the Balance of Nature,
with disastrousgconsequences to himself; Why is it- We are plagued
with an excessiVe population of rats and rabbits" for instance, to such-
an extent that an estimate of the damage done by rats alone. of _
£Io,ooo,ooo annually is authoritatively stated to he “.probably well

within the mark”? .
i [are

 




The answer given to this question by one well- known authority,

Mr. H. G. Maurice, is: —- , .

“ One of the chief reasons why we are plagued with an exces-
sive population of rats, and let me add rabbits, is the senseless
persecution of such useful creatures as the polecat, the stoat, the
weasel and of oWls, kestrel, hawks and other valuable birds of
prey (chieﬂy in the supposed interests of game-preserving) ”

Now in spite of certain minor depredations on cereal crops and
fruits made by the sparrow, the starling, rock and gull, they are all ‘
useful destroyers of insects and weed seeds and are on balance a beneﬁt '-
to agriculture and food production. Well might R‘alph Hodson write: —-—

tI saw with open eyes ‘ I saw in a vision

Singing birds sweet ‘ f The worm in the wheat
Sold in the shops for And in the shops nothing
People to eat: 7 For people to eat;
Sold in the shops of ' Nothing for sale in
Stupidity Street. Y ‘ ’ ' Stupidity Street. ‘

Man has gone against Nature in his treatment of animals He has
created a civilisation in which he has become artiﬁcially dependent for,
his food, his health, his clothing, his tranSport, his pleasure and many
of his comforts, upon the callous exploitation and selﬁsh destruction of
animal life with little or no regaidto the sufferings and miseries inﬂicted
upon these sentient fellow creatures in the process.

So ruthless has he been in pursuit of his ends, in certain directions,
that a scientific journal a few years back published. the statement that:
“The modern ravages of the fur and hide trade, with the
work of the bone fertiliser tlade, now threaten the entire vertebrate "
kingdom”

and a trade paper “ The Fur Trader” declared: --—-.
‘.‘ The trade in skins will increase in volume until the needs .
of men coupled with the vanity of women have exhausted all 7
the beasts upon the earth’s surface.’ a '

Will it ever be possible for him to slow up and reverse this process
and live in peace and comradeship with all that lives and breathes?
Difﬁcult it undoubtedly will be, but to-day there are many people who
are learning to live with only a minimum of animal exploitation;

\ people who are planning and working to create a new order, based, not
upon the principle that might and superior intelligence imply the right
'to tyrannise and oppreSs, but upon reverence for all life and the recog—'
nition of the bond that exists between all that lives. Truly it is written. ,-
beneath the statue erected to the memory of the horses that fell in the
Boer War: ~—

“The greatness of a nation consists not so much in the num-
bers of its people or the extent of its territory, as in the greatness

and justice of its compassion” .

The older generations cannot do much more towards the building
of this new order; it is for the y‘ounger generations to set their minds
and hearts and hands to this great adventure. , y: ME

ROBERT H. SPURRiER. [ 2

E‘

For further details, Information, literature, speakers, etc. ., please write to the . 8 19A .
SECRETARY, NATIONAL COUNCIL FOR ANIMALS’ Wm migh-
32, Queen's Avenue, London N. 10 “I W ‘ W

A. V. Huckle & Son, Ltd.-, Printers, 60 Ramsden Road, Balham, LOMW

 

 




