 

 

 

 

FUR AND FASHION

By MARY CRAIGE YARROW

 

HE season during which Dame Fashion has dictated the wearing of fur is at
hand, and soon the hearts of those who know something of the frightful suf—
fering for which her edict is responsible will be sickened, and their eyes

offended, by seeing civilized beings displaying as part of their attire, collections
of the skins, heads, and tails of animals such as would disgrace a savage; for
handsome materials possessing great warmth may readily be obtained, from which
muffs, neckpieces, etc., may be manufactured, but the votary of Fashion holds up
her hands in horror at the mere thought of parting with her furs, and declares
them to be an absolute necessity, forgetting that it is her custom to leave ankles
unprotected during the severest winter weather by wearing low shoes, to bare
throat and even chest generously to icy winds, and to scoff at a suggestion as to
needing woolen underwear. Only fur, it seems, will sufﬁciently protect her frail( ‘2)
body, and meanwhile the purses of trappers and traders wax fat.

Wearer of sealskin, as you gaze with pride upon your latest costly purchase,
do you not see the blood- stains which mar its beauty. Listen! that to your ears
may come an echo of death— cries from one of the killing- places of seals, whither
they were driven for miles over rocks and rough .,ground suffering intensely from
the weight of their heavy coats, many of them exhausted and frothing at the
mouth, some falling and dying by the way, and those which survived the painful
journey being clubbed to death upon arriving there. When the last skull has
been crushed, and the shambles run red, in the distance are rising the weak cries
of young seals, wailing for the dead mothers of whom they have been so cruelly
robbed, and without whom they must slowly perish of starvation.

Ponder well upon ”these matters, 0 Follower of Fashion, for thus began the
making of your most costly garment, and blood and agony untold were in your.’
purchase 0f the lives of creatures so gentle that those hired to kill them have
related how they could go among whole herds without fear, and so intelligent
that they are known to have the capacity for suffering acutely.

Bend from your solemn heights, tall pine trees in the faraway, dim forests
of the north. Proclaim to a deaf world the awful, pitiful tragedies enacted
beneath your boughs, where the jagged teeth of the steel trap lie in ambush
eager to crush and tear their. prey, with the grim Spectres, Hunger, Thirst and

 




 

 

Fever, hovering very near, for it may be long ere the trapper pass that way
again. Now and then a wretched victim has been known to escape, leaVIng a
bloody trail upon the white snow, and limping to freedom on three feet, only a
stump remaining where the fourth once was, for the iron jaws of' the deadly
trap are holding a limb, gnawed off by the wild creature in its pain,'and desperate
struggle for liberty." It might be thought that even a heart of stone would be
touched when; ﬁnding such a trophy—but not that of the trapper. Anger and

disappointment in losing a valuable skin. are the only emotions aroused when he'

visits this trap, and alas for the dumb creature! how can it. hope to outwit the
cruel ingenuity of man in this unequal warfare, for he now sets two traps so
closely side by side that two of the animal’s feet instead of one are caught and
imprisoned, making its plight hopeless.

Tender mother! hushing your little ones to rest, Christian in all but your
attitude toward the most helpless of God’s creation, would that you might see the
fur coat which you have named as your most wished—for Christmas gift in its
original form, in that far country where the Persian butcher bends with keen,
uplifted knife above the prostrate mother-sheep. Can you not picture the terror
and pain in her soft eyes, and how the frightened, ﬂuttering heart threaten-s to
burst from her side?——she is dumb, it is true, but yet a mother! Remember, 0
human mother, should you still wish to receive the same Christmas gift, that all
this was done for you in order that you might deck your body with the soft fur
which covered the unborn baby—lamb, which was taken from the mother at this
period that its coat might possess the qualities you most admire.

Women, whose delicate hands have signed the death-warrants of millions of
innocent creatures, hunted down, tortured and trapped by every cruel device
known to man, much has been written and circulated exposing the horrors of the
inhuman trafﬁc for which your vanity is responsible, (the fur dealer knowing
well that when he shall offer that which most pleases your fancy, he will surely
receive from you the price of innocent blood) can you still be ignorant? ARE
YOU NOT GUILTY? '

 

*From which some idea may be formed as to how dearly animals prize freedom,
and how intensely they suffer when in any way deprived of it.

 

L.-— ~._‘_

Copies of this leaﬂet may be obtained without charge by addressing
Miss M. C. Yarrow, 1928 North Eighteenth Street,
Philadelphia, Pa.

 

 

 

 

 

fh




'ur

‘ W‘A‘ _ A
, ~AAM“

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE AIR-GUN AND THE BIRDS

The question of the use of the air—gun and the air riﬂe has become
such a serious one that parents, teachers, and boys who have come to
years of understanding, should consider very earnestly what their duty
is in regard to the matter.

To the thoughtful man or woman it seems astonishing that any
parent can ‘allow his child the possession of a toy dangerous to the
safety of the child and his companions, and demoralizing to the char-
acter through its encouragement to cruelty.

To kill for the mere sake of killing, to ﬁnd pleasure in frightening,

wounding or destroying any living creature, is a certain way to cultivate
the brutality and the indifference to suffering which often lead to serious
crimes.
Boys who have been met in the ﬁelds or woods carrying air-guns
or air riﬂes, when questioned, have frequently replied that they are
“only shooting English sparrows,” and this is, they have been told,
commendable sport.

'There is a close enough resemblance between the English sparrow,
the chipping sparrow and the tree sparrow to make it almost a certainty
that boys at a shooting distance could not distinguish between them,
and when a boy is out for the fun of shooting it is not at all likely he
would try to do so. A boy of about twelve or fourteen years of age
was met in a ﬁeld carrying an air-gun and a bag. Upon being asked
what he was doing, he answered that he was shooting English sparrows.
The bag was examined and in it were found song—sparrows, chipping
sparrows, larks and robins. The boy was enjoying killing birds and
evidently cared nothing about what kind of bird he killed so long as

his lust of killing was satisﬁed.

 




_,;.;_ ._. 4 4-.

That the use of an air-gun or riﬂe educates a boy in cruelty is
known and sadly realized in many neighborhoods where there are boys
owning these weapons, and where cats and dogs, as well as birds, have
been made the targets and victims of the boys’ amusement. This is
bad, but even worse is the well-known fact that many injuries to chil-
dren and older persons have resulted from the careless use of such
weapons, even to the loss of life. .

In Chicago at one time the great mistake was made of offering a
bounty for killing sparrows. The Humane Journal of that city made
investigation and published the fact that within one fortnight of the time
the bounty was offered, the surgeons of the city had reported many
cases where boys with their guns had been the means, accidentally
of course, of partially or wholly destroying the eyesight of persons who
happened to come in their way, besides wounding them in other ways.

As far as killing the English sparrows is concerned, there is a very
decided difference of opinion; men who have been studying their ways
and are well acquainted with the sparrow, have given facts showing
that it destroys many insects, particularly the canker—worm. In trying
to have the English sparrow exterminated let men beware lest a worse
misfortune befall them; a disaster such as Longfellow describes in

i “T he Birds of Killingworth,” a poem which should be committed to
memory by every child:

“The summer came, and all the birds were dead;
The days were like hot coals; the very ground
Was burned to ashes; in the orchards fed
Myriads of caterpillars, and around
The cultivated ﬁelds and garden beds
Hosts of devouring insects crawled, and found
No foe to check their march, till they had made
The land a desert, without leaf or shade.

* * * >l< * * >l=

 

“The farmers grew impatient, but a few
Confessed their error, and would not complain.

>1: * * >1: >1: >x< *

“Then they repealed the law, although they knew
It would not call the dead to life again.”

How Shall We Amuse Our Boys?

But, someone asks, “How shall we amuse our boys and teach them
to be manly?”
True manliness never consisted in hurting, wounding, or killing.
A great German writer has truly said, “The man who has most pity is
2

 

 




the best man.” Instead of giving your boy a gun or riﬂe, and so tempt-
ing him to be thoughtless and cruel, give him a camera and let him
try to get snap-shots of birds or animals; or give him an opera-glass
and encourage him to study the habits of the birds in their natural
conditions. If he once watches carefully the industry, perseverance
and joy of the birds when building their nests, he will never want to steal
a nest. If he observes the patience of the mother bird sitting day after
day on her eggs while the male bird sings to cheer her and brings her
food, he will never want to take away her eggs. If he sees the father
and mother birds working busily and happily to ﬁll the hungry little
mouths that are stretched over the edge of the nest and if he hears the
anxious cry of the mother bird when she fears some enemy is approach-
ing, he will surely want to protect and not to destroy the little family.
If he still wishes to harm them he must be devoid of all good feeling.

Give-the boy and the girl a book about birds and if they study it
and read the interesting stories of bird life, and look at the pictures of
the birds and their nests the boy will not want to kill, and the girl
will not want to have birds killed to provide feathers for her hat.

Not only the parent but the school teacher has a great responsibility
in this matter of the air—gun and the riﬂe. Teachers can easily manage
to introduce a brief talk about the birds and show them by charts,
which cost but little, by means of which the pupils will very soon know
the different kinds by their coloring and their shape.

Every school yard in the country should have a bird table in winter
where the birds may be fed, and where any kind of hungry bird may come
without danger. The children will very soon learn to take an interest
in keeping the table well supplied with food, and will watch to see what
kinds of birds come to partake of its bounty. They will learn from it
to put bird tables in their own yards, and put up bird houses in their
trees.

If such methods of interesting the children are used, if instead of
giving them the means of destroying life, the children are carefully
taught to preserve life and protect all weaker creatures from suffering,
it will be but a few years before we shall see a marked difference in the
number of the birds, and in the character of the children.

We should discourage collections of birds or of birds’ eggs. By means
of this hobby the world has been deprived of thousands of useful and
beautiful birds. It is enough for such collections to be kept in public '
museums; if every school tries to get them we can hardly estimate
the loss of bird life. Books and charts are easier for the teacher to get
than the living birds; they are quite as educational, and far more
humane.

By such means as these we are going to eliminate the barbarous
and self-seeking elements of character, and reach up to the higher and

r)
v)

 




‘5‘“ J 5;

"ﬂy-4;.” &

"l' nl'g'l;

 

’2 viva-V}: scram-9921!)? ‘e

 

 

the only true ClV'lllZiLlltHl, which must have for its foundation, thought-
ful kindness to every living creature. . ,

llow many lives are lost by guns which were supposed to be un-
loaded? One is surprised to see the carelessness of parents who allow
their children to handle these instruments of death and who keep them
within the reach of even small children. A mother was shot by her little
son who was playing with a riﬂe. The newspaper article ended with
these words, “The police were convinced that the shooting was purely
accidental and no action was taken against the boy.” Certainly some
action ought to be taken against parents who allow children to handle
these dangerous weapons. When the time comes that innocent living
creatures are no longer shot for amusement there will be fewer human
lives sacriﬁced.

NOTE :—-There is a law in Rhode Island prohibiting the use of air and
spring guns, and any contrivance arranged to discharge missiles, as well
as of ordinary guns, etc., in highways and on private property without
the consent of the owner.

 

 

Published by the AMERICAN IZU IANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 45 Milk Street, Boston.
Mass. Dr. Francis H. Rowley, President; Guy Richardson, Secretary.

Price, 5 cents per dozen, or 30 cents per hundred, postpaid.

 

 

 




 

 

 

h. ‘31.?

 

A WISE FISH

I AM only a ﬁsh. But I have a story to tell about myself and my
millions of brothers and sisters who used to swim in these waters and play
round the shores. There are so many of us and we are so hungry that
we are always hunting for food, and even eat each other; so it would be
foolish to complain that creatures living on the shore should catch and
eat as when hungry. Many people know so little about us that after they
have caught us (which is bad enough for us), they throw us into a basket ‘
or hollow of the rocks with just enough water to prevent our dying
quickly, and there we gasp and gasp for hours. How we long to speak
their language and tell them that we shall be soft and quite unﬁt to eat
if we suffer so much, and are so long dying; and that wise ﬁshermen
kill ﬁsh as soon as taken from the water by striking them a quick, sharp
blow on the back of the head with a stick or stone, or if they have no stick
or stone, hold the ﬁsh by their tails and strike their heads against a
rock or something hard, and then put them into a cool, shady place!
People do not allow land creatures that are meant for food to die slowly
in agony, because they know that their ﬂesh is unwholesome if they do,
and the same is true of us.

“I am ﬁshing for fun,” I hear boys and even men say, and they
catch dozens of us and throw us down on the hot rocks or into a little
pool of warm water, leaving us to suffer and die.

How do I know so much? I will tell you. I am an old ﬁsh now, ,
and have been caught three times myself. The ﬁrst time I was a mere
baby and was taken into the hands of a tall man with a kind face, who
said: “Poor little ﬁsh; you are too small to eat, and you are not hurt, for

 

 

 




 

 

the hook is only caught in your lip, and I will take it out very carefully.
If you wre badly hurt I would kill you at once; but there, you are free
now to swim away and forget all about me.” The next time I was caught
by a woman, who swung me into the air and dashed me‘among the
rough rocks, screaming for some one to take me off. But my head
was caught in a rock and the hook was jerked away, tearing my mouth,
and I fell into the sea. Lastly, I was caught by a boy, who called me
“such a beauty,” for I was full grown by that time. Had he known
how to kill me quickly, I would have made him a good dinner; but he
threw me into a hollow in the rocks, as he had seen others do, and soon
the friendly ocean sent a big wave which washed me back home again.
So I have grown very shy of the worms and bits of clams and other
food that men tempt us with, and now spend my time teaching other
ﬁshes how to nibble the bait without getting caught—A FISH.

 

Agassiz always taught his pupils to kill ﬁsh as soon as caught, by a
blow on the back of the head, that they might not suffer before dying.
Such ﬁsh keep better, and are better to eat; and the best ﬁshermen in
Europe and America always kill their ﬁsh as soon as they catch them
by a blow on the back of the head. Humane persons kill ﬁsh-worms
instantly by plunging them in a dish of boiling water, and so giving
the ﬁsh cooked worms instead of raw—GEO. T. ANGELL.

 

One of the latest triumphs of Yankee inventive genius is the india-
rubber ﬁsh-worm, which is practically indestructible, and makes an
excellent artiﬁcial bait, thus saving the trouble of procuring the worms
and constantly rebaiting the hook. When grasshoppers are used for
bait, before they are placed on the hooks their heads should be cut off.

 

Many of our common non-venomous snakes are exceedingly useful
in destroying noxious insects (such as ticks and beetles), as well as rats,
mice, and gophers. '

Though not venomous, the black-snake ﬁghts and destroys the
more sluggish rattlesnake.

The garter—snake feeds upon larvae and wood ticks.

The Pelyoph’ls bellona is a very common and important western form
of the pine—snake or bull-snake of the East. “It is not only harmless,
but exceedingly useful as a vermin—destroyer.”——C. W. GREEN, M.D.

 

Frogs and toads are certainly entitled to our protection on account
of the good they do in destroying vast numbers of insects and worms.
The toads do this in the gardens and the frogs in marshy places, where
the air, on account of ﬂies and other insects, would be almost unﬁt to
breathe without the services they render.

(2)




HUMANE METHODS OF KILLING LOBSTERS AND CRABS

The Animal World, London, says:

- “Ignorance is very busy amongst those who handle ﬁsh; and though
everyone knows how to destroy a ﬁsh at once by a blow at the back of
its head, carelessness often forgets to see it done. Fish suffer in the air
after they are landed as we should suffer if our heads were under water,
because their gills, through which they breathe, cannot act without the
pressure of the water going through them. We, under water, cannot '
breathe in the same fashion as they do, and thus we struggle till death
releases us; so do the ﬁsh on land.

“We are often wilfully and ignorantly cruel in our way of killing
lobsters and crabs. To kill Crabs properly they should, before boiling,
be thrust through with a sharp steel right through the mouth and body
at one blow. Then they are dead directly.

“The eel tribe suffers terribly. So difﬁcult is it, apparently, to kill
eels, that people have even ceased to try to kill them at all. . . . If their
heads were but cut off before they were otherwise handled, they would

not suffer pain. Terrapins also should be mercifully killed before being
cooked.”

 

When a lobster is required for boiling or broiling insert a narrow—
bladed knife into the third joint of the tail, severing the spinal cord, which
will cause instant death. It is certainly cruel to put them into the water

alive, especially if it is not boiling, as they would then suffer a slow,
lingering death. ' ’

 

GOLDFISH

In China the little goldﬁsh, a native of that place, is treated better
than in England, being placed in china bowls, which have holes made
at the bottom as places of shelter. Even in our glass bowls such places
might be provided by putting a few loose stones in the bottom and some
suffering prevented.

Fishes cannot be kept in health and comfort for any length of time
except out-of—doors, in running water, or water at least exposed to the
inﬂuences of sun and air, with rain. Those who take the charming little
minnow or stickleback, or any other of the pretty little English ﬁshes and
condemn them to an “aquarium” are sentencing the creatures they
profess to be fond of to a slow, cruel, lingering death. Half of such cap-
tives die for want of rest; they are chased and terriﬁed to death; you
see them moving round and round their places of captivity till they
die, because they want a place of refuge—and to get away. They cannot
beat against their prison walls, or ﬂutter, or cry as a bird does; their
misery is silent, but in reality it is the same, though in a lesser degree.
For all ﬁsh must have rest and quiet and they need darkness to soothe
them. Their eyes are not formed to endure the light all round them,

(3)

 




 

as is the case when they are put into a glass vessel. No wonder that
they dash from side to side when ﬁrst placed in such a thing, plunging
and struggling vainly to escape, trying to bury their heads in imaginary
mud which they hope to ﬁnd at the bottom—knocking vainly against
the cruel clearness which they cannot swim through,~—the mocking, glass
sides of their place of restraint. How would you like to be exposed to
the full glare of sunlight without eyelids or hands with which to cover
your face? '

Boys and men, we hope that you will not catch ﬁsh just “for fun,”
but only when you intend to eat them; and that, catching no more than
you need for food, you will kill them at once. If you should catch any
that are too small for use, but which are badly hurt, kill them also, and
do not throw them back into the water to suffer.

N 0 one who is really brave and noble will ﬁnd pleasure in causing
needless suffering to any living creature.

 

HOW SEALS ARE KILLED ON LAND

In an account given by Mr. William Gavitt, who has lived in Alaska
and been an eye—witness to the cruelties connected with seal killing,
he says that the animals are captured by being driven over rough roads
to the killing grounds, which may be as far as ﬁve miles, over and between
rocks of all kinds and shapes. The heavy-coated animals soon become
overheated and foam at the mouth, some dying on the way. When the
others reach the grounds they are driven into long columns, three to
ﬁve abreast, and pass between men who have heavy clubs with which
they crush the skulls of the animals that are wanted. Those not wanted
are permitted to ﬁnd their way back to the sea. It frequently occurs
that a seal not wanted is injured and left to die on the grounds. The
scenes at the killing grounds, described by Mr. Gavitt, are horrible.
He says his trip seems like a horrible nightmare and the cruelties wit—
nessed are a disgrace to the American ﬂag,

It is difﬁcult to understand how a woman can want to wear a seal—
skin coat after hearing how it is obtained.

In an article published in the Washington Post on the question of
seal ﬁsheries, reference was made to the brutality practised, an enor-
mous amount of which is the killing of the mothers and the leaving of
the young to starve.

An extract from Chambers’ Journal says: “It is stated of the fur—
seal of Alaska (callorhinus ursinus), that there is no known animal, on
land or water, which can take higher physical rank, or which exhibits
a higher order of instinct, closely approaching human intelligence.”
The more intelligent an animal is, the greater is its capacity‘for suffering.

 

Published by the AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 45 Milk Street, Boston,
Mass. Dr. Francis H. Rowley, President; Guy Richardson, Secretary.

Price, 5 cents per dozen, or 30 cents per hundred, postpaid.

(4)

 




