2
religion need not be that person's belief in a particular church‘s

articles of faith-«for example, those associated Roman Catholicism. In

fact, a person‘s religion need not involve a belief in any deity

whatsoever. Paradoxical as it may sound, even an atheist can have a
religion, as this crucial idea is understood by interpreters of the
constitution.

tine part of the constitutional test of a person‘s "religion" is this:
Does the person have a set of beliefs that function, in that person's
life, in ways that are analogous to how the beliefs of, say, a Jew or a
Lutheran function, in their life? Hnother part concerns the existence
of a community of believers: ﬂre there other like-minded people for
whom the presence of these beliefs, in their lives, has a “religious"
function?

These are questions the “experts" ultimately will have to answer.
Nevertheless, it does not take a legal scholar to see that Jeniffer
Graham appears to have a very strong case. Hfterall, her beliefs about
the inherent worth of animals really do play the same role in her life
as the religious beliefs of Jews and Lutherans play in the lives of
these people. find Jeniffer really does belong to a community of
like-minded people: we’re called The ﬂnimal Rights Movement!

Small wonder, then, that people familiar with the law are
optimistic about Jeniffer‘s chances of winning. The first hurdle along
her legal path to victory already has been surmounted. fl federal
judge recently ruled that her case deserves to be heard in federal
court. it real legal precedent might yet be set!

That would have made it easier for other high school
students--students like Brandi Mcnougall, Gillian Carr, Elisa Forgey,

and Marta Kahn, for example. They had the courage to stand-up and

 




CLHSSBDDM BISSECTIDN: JUST 88"! "ND! "

TOM BEEHN

Rs a new school year begins, literally millions of ﬂmerican students
will be "required“ to do what most of their parents and their parents'
parents have done before them. This traditional rite-of—passage is
called dissection (literally, to cut apart on animal body). But whereas
previous generations have by-and-large done what they were told,
increasing numbers of today‘s students are summoning the courage to
just say “No!"

Find it does take courage. The usual situation pits a blue-jeaned
teenager without porfolio against a white-coated teacher with a
fistful of degrees. The dissenting student often is pictured as a
trouble-maker, weird, squeamish, or worse, whereas the teacher is
represented as a person committed to academic standards, concerned
about classroom discipline, an upholder of academic freedom, or
better. Caught in the jaws of such partisan rhetoric, it takes real
bravery to stand-up and, for reasons of conscience, just say "No!"

Sixteen year old Jeniffer Graham found the courage. ﬂ straight-H
student at victor High School in Uictorville, California, Jeniffer
received a B in her sophomore biology class because she refused to
dissect a frog. with the assistance of able people in the animal
protection community, Jeniffer took her case to federal court,
claiming that her constitutional rights had been violated.

The legal basis for her case concerns the constituitional protection

afforded a person‘s freedom of religion. Since the Uietnam war, the

courts have interpreted this protection rather broadly. H person's

 




3

just say "No!" without a law (or lawyer] on their side. But stand-up
they did. ﬁnd successful they were. (For their story and other relevant
information, contact Student ﬂction Corps for ﬂnimols, P.lJ. Bon lSStlB,
tllashington, 0.8. 20003-0588).

There is no mistaking it: There is a groundswell of activity aimed at
changing business-as-usual in the lab. Even state legislatures are
getting into the act. During this past gear five states (California,
lllinois, Massachusetts, New Turk, and Pennsylvania] adopted bills
that affirm and protect the right of all students, grades K-through-l 2,
to refuse to take part in dissection. There is every reason to enpect
that more and more states soon will do the same.

No less important efforts are underway to reform university and
professional training in the life sciences. Gloria Binkowski and Eric
Dunager were both third-gear students in the School of veterinary
Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania. These two brave young
people were threatened with more than a lower grade if they refused
to perform “practice surgery“ on healthy dogs; they were threatened
with failing to graduate.

Both Gloria and Eric put their principles where there mouth is and
just said ”Not" when the university dug in its heels, the two filed a
lawsuit. They meant business! The university responded by offering to

settle out of court. Neither Gloiria nor Eric performed the surgery, and

both today are proud, conscientious veternarians with a degree from

the University of Pennsylvania.

The enperience of Jeniffer Graham, Eric Dunager and the others
should be enormously encouraging to those students who think that
education should nurture human compassion rather than destroy it.

what these young people have done should stand as a beacon of hope
to this year’s students in the life sciences.

 




