lbs
Modern
Medicine

 

 

Man.

How he Manufactures

his Vaccines and Serums.

 

By WALTER R. HADWEN, M.D., J.P.

 

i Price: TWOPENCE.

Published by
THE BRITISH UNION FOR ABOLITION OF VIVISECTION,
32, Charing Cross, London, S.W.I.

 




 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

The Modern Medicine Man.

HE Pharmacopoeia of the latter day
medical necromancer is of very limited
dimensions. All his preparations are
concocted on much the same plan, and
date back to the folk lore of Jenner,
the Gloucestershire apothecary, or ~to
Pasteur, the credulous chemist of the Rue Didot in Paris.

Jenner was the world-famed apostle of Vaccination;
he gleaned his theory from the dairymaids of his
neighbourhood 130 years ago. It consisted in the
belief that a certain affection of the cow’s udders
termed cowpox would, if inoculated into a human
being, prevent smallpox.

He professed to believe—in spite of conclusive
evidence to the Contrary—that cowpox was “smallpox
of the cow,” and that, therefore, smallpox could be
prevented by being produced! Pasteur accepted this
creed, apparently, because Jenner declared his belief
in it, and proceeded without further question to build
up the cult of modern Pasteurism.

Vaccine lymph is alleged to be cowpox virus, and is
artiﬁcially manufactured as follows :—

THE MANUFACTURE OF VACCINE
LYMPH.

 

 

 

3

 

 




 

 

 

A calf, three to six months old, is ﬁrmly strapped
to a specially designed tilting table, its abdomen
shaved, and from 100 to 120 incisions are made in
its skin with a sharp scalpel. Into these incisions
virus is well rubbed by the aid of a bone spatula,
and the animal is then released and tied up by its
head (so that it cannot lick the irritating sores) for
ﬁve days, until the wounds become scabs. The calf
is then returned to the table, rebound, the whole
surface of its abdomen washed with warm water,
.each scab is separately gripped with a clamp and
the top of the crust removed, or the skin is put ﬁrmly
on the stretch, and the contents of each sore carefully
scraped out with a steel spoon. The contents of these
120 scabs consist of lymph, pus, blood, dead skin, etc.,
all of which is transferred to a crucible and mixed
thoroughly with an equal quantity of glycerine by
means of a small electric motor. It is afterwards
strained in order to remove hair, pieces of ﬂesh or other
coarse ingredients, and is then put into tubes and sold
as “pure glycerinated calf lymph.”

Now, what is the source of the “vaccine virus” which is
rubbed into the incisions in the calf’s abdomen? That
question has been asked in the House of Commons times
out of number, but no satisfactory answer has ever been
given. Nobody knows what vaccine is. Its history is a
very mixed one. Many and various animals have been
called into requisition to serve as the media of its cul—
tivation. At one time, some pulp was taken from
vesicles found on a smallpox corpse. This was declared
by Dr. Monckton Copeman, of the Local Government
Board, to be “the most satisfactory material.” The
smallpox pulp was mixed with glycerine in the usual
way, inoculated into monkeys, then into calves and
ﬁnally into children. Is it any wonder that the riddle
of the pedigree of “vaccine lymph” is too much even for
a Whitehall bureaucrat to solve? Let us not forget that
the vaccination theory and process form the foundation
of every inoculation process since.
THE THEORY OF SERUM THERAPY.

The “scientiﬁc” theory underlying serum therapy goes
back to the year 1721, when Lady Wortley Montague
startled the English public with the information that old

4

 

 




women in Turkey prevented smallpox in adult life by
giving smallpox to babies! By following her ladyship’s
advice smallpox was increased considerably in this country
and thus Edward Jenner was afforded his opportunity
for introducing the legend of the Gloucestershire dairy-
maids, namely, that the (non-infectious) cowpox would
prevent smallpox, inasmuch as cowpox was “smallpox
of the cow.”

The theory of Jenner, therefore, was the same as
that of the old Turkish women, viz., forestall the natural
contraction of the disease by causing the same disease-
artiﬁcially. . '

Pasteur, the French chemist, looked upon Jenner as
a great scientiﬁc hero, and set about planning how he
could apply this theory to other diseases than that of
smallpox. The difﬁculty lay in devising the means by
which other diseases could be conveyed into the system
in a similarly simple manner. This difﬁculty was
ultimately overcome by the invention of the “germ
theory of disease,” Which is, that every disease is
originated by an atmospheric germ, or in other words,
“a germ is a disease and a disease is a germ.”

Pasteur thereupon proposed to prevent each particular
disease by inoculating persons With the germ' of that
disease—~if he could ﬁnd it! It never seems to have
occurred to him that no germs of either smallpox or cow-
pox had ever been discovered.

Serum therapy and vaccine therapy are therefore based
upon the Jenner-Pasteurian idea that in order to prevent
a disease (which we may never contract) the disease itself
must be given by means of its germ, under the mistaken
idea that the same disease is never contracted a second
time.

The method of manufacture of Diphtheria Antitoxin
furnishes a classical. example of the manufacture of all
the serums used in the modern cult of serum therapy,
whether of anti-plague serum, anti—tetanus serum, Sclavo ’s
anthrax serum, anti—snake venom serum, anti—pneumo-
coccic serum, anti—meningitis serum, etc., etc. In most
of the preparations a horse is used as the medium for
obtaining the serum, but for the preparation of anthrax
serum Sclavo uses a donkey, and for that of anti—
plague serum Haffkine usually uses a goat.

5

 

 

 




THE MANUFACTURE OF DIPHTHERIA
ANTITOXIN.

A portion of the membranous excretion which
appears upon the throat of a patient suffering from
diphtheria is ﬁrst extracted therefrom. It is neces-
sary that it should contain the “diphtheria bacillus,”
for many diphtheritic throats contain no diphtheria
bacillus at all. This excretion is then transferred to
a special beef broth, which is kept at a certain even
temperature in an incubator for 10 to 14 days, until
the germs multiply millions—fold and the beef broth
becomes alive with them. It is recommended that
the meat which is used for
making the broth should be
kept for some days until
incipient putr'efaction has
taken place. The broth is
k, then ﬁltered, and the
’ ﬁltrate is employed for in-
jecting into horses. At
ﬁrst only a few drops are
injected under the skin.
The injections are admini-
stered twice a week in
gradually increasing doses
for a period of ﬁve or six
months until the dose ul—
timately reaches as much
as a pint to a pint and
, a half.

At ﬁrst the injections give rise to a considerable
constitutional disturbance—as might be expected in
such ablood-poisoning process. The animal’s tem-
perature rises, it goes off its food, it may have
diarrhoea and shivering ﬁts, etc., but the ‘in—
jections are continued until the animal—if it does not '
succumb—ceases to react. It is then said to be
“immune,” and its blood is supposed to contain an
anti-toxin capable of neutralizing the toxin (i.6.,
poison) of diphtheria.

The bleeding process then begins, usually on the third
day after the last injection of the poisoned beef broth.

The animal’s head is ﬁrmly secured; if at all refrac-

6

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

 

 

 

 

SWELLING AT SEAT OF INOCULATION.

 

 

 

 




tory a cruel instrument called a twitch is ﬁxed on the

upper lip, and a long sharp-pointed tube is driven

into the horse’s neck over a large blood-vessel, and two
or three gallons of blood are drawn off into a receptacle.

This process is repeated from time to time until the

animal is exhausted, or is sold or dies. The blood

coagulates and the clear ﬂuid which rises to the surface

—called serum—is then put into tubes and sold at fancy

prices under the name of diphtheria antitoxin.

And what about the horses? These continual injections
of poisonous matter and loss of blood have been found
to produce amyloid disease. The organs may become
so friable that they literally break to pieces, and death is
apt to occur from spontaneous rupture and haemorrhage.
And this is the way the modern medicine man is per-
mitted by the Government of a “Christian country” to
torture an animal in the closing years of a life of toil and
duty faithfully done.

The injections of tetanus—toxins—that is so—called
tetanus germs grown in the same way in beef broth—
frequently produce horrible results in the horse, the
animal falling prostrate after each injection, with legs
extended, laboured breathing and small pulse.

If people are able to believe that these weird and
cruel methods of treating disease can be of any possible
service, one can only admire faith’s response to a very
big demand.

VACCINE THERAPYJ

Vaccines are of quite a different order from serums, as
the horse is not called in requisition. It is, moreover,
declared that anti-vivisectionists are not justiﬁed in
opposing the use of vaccines, because “no animal is used
in their manufacture.” The name of vaccines was
given to these preparations in honour of Jenner, but the
name is very misleading, for it implies that a cow enters
into the process, which is not the case. ' Let us first of
all take as an example the classic anti—cholera vaccine.

THE MANUFACTURE OF ANTI -CHOLERA
VACCINE.

Haffkine’s vaccine against cholera has earned the
unenviable notoriety of its use being invariably fol-
7

 




lowed by an increase of cholera, whether used in India
or elsewhere. The cholera germ itself (of which Klein,
when he ﬁrst heard of its “ discovery, ” contemptuously
drank a tubeful without being any the worse for it)
is usually grown in glass tubes on a nutrient medium
of some sort and incubated for 24 hours. A guinea—pig
is then etherised, a small patch of hair on the abdomen
is cut short, and the spot is cauterized with a hot iron.
Over this area a syringeful of the cholera bacilli is
injected into its abdomen. The guinea—pigs thus
treated die within 24 hours. They are then pinned
out, the abdomen is opened and some of the peritoneal
ﬂuid is sucked up'by a ﬁne syringe. This ﬂuid is put
into a test tube in an incubator to allow the cholera
germs to grow. Then the ﬂuid is put into a second
guinea—pig, and so on through 20 or 30 more guinea-
pigs until at last it is supposed to have attained its
“maximum virulence.” This process of passing
through guinea—pigs has to be kept up or the “ Virulence”
will be lost in 10 days. Finally, an emulsion is made
by mixing the germs with broth, and the wonderful
concoction is then ready for injection into human beings
as a preventive of cholera!

Now let us look at anti—typhoid vaccine as prepared by

the method of Sir Almroth Wright.

 

THE MANUFACTURE OF ANTI -TYPHOID
VACCINE.

First of all the so-called typhoid bacilli have to be
found. Attempts to procure them from the blood are
not successful, as blood rapidly destroys them: they
are more easily obtained from the excreta of typhoid
patients. It is necessary that they should be virulent,
and this “virulence” is kept up by persistently inject—
ing them into the abdominal cavities of guinea-pigs
in the manner already described. These bacilli are
grown in the usual way in beef broth for from 14 to 21
days. The ﬂasks are then heated to a high temperature
(60Q C.), and this decoction of germs is ready for use.

It fulﬁls the conditions of the old Witch of the 18th
century: “ Give him a hair of the dog that bit him!”

There is another kind of vaccine much used in fashionable
8

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

circles, which consists in taking scrapings from the
tongue of a patient, on which may be found a sufﬁcient
variety of germs to convict the individual of almost
any disease under the sun. These germs are cultivated
on a nutrient material, mixed with milk and given to the
patient to swallow in the hope that the hotch-potch will
hit off something! The method is as useless as it is
ﬁlthy, but as it is harmless and unaccompanied. with pain
to sentient animals it is no concern of ours.

We will conclude with a description of the manufacture
of Anti—Rabic Virus for the cure of hydrophobia. This
is the weirdest superstition of all and stands in a category
by itself.

No rabies germ has ever been discovered; but Pasteur,
having conceived the idea that there was no disease
without a germ, took for granted it must be lurking
somewhere in the spinal cord inasmuch as the symptoms
and signs of rabies were all of nerve origin.

~ IVTHE MANUFACTURE OF ANTI-RABIC
VIRUS.

An emulsion is ﬁrst prepared from the spinal cord
of a supposed mad dog. Then the skull of a live
rabbit is pierced (the animal is never put under an
anaesthetic at the Pasteur Institute) and a small
quantity of the “mad dog” emulsion is injected into
its brain. It is then placed in a cage, labelled with
the date of inoculation. The rabbit does not become
mad, but it is paralysed in its hind quarters. Pasteur
in this way produced a new kind of disease, called
“paralytic rabies”—the fact is, any inﬂammation set
up in the brain by means of any morbid matter produces
the same result.

The paralysis gradually spreads over the body until
in a few days the creature dies. When it dies, its spinal
cord is removed, an emulsion made of it, and a second
live rabbit’s brain. is injected therewith. And so the
fantastic process goes on with rabbit after rabbit, until
what is called a “fixed virus” is obtained, that is, one
which will produce the ﬁrst symptoms of paralysis in a
rabbit on the seventh or eighth day and which will kill
it with certainty in about 10 days. When this result

9

 




has been achieved, two or three rabbits have their
skulls pierced and their brains injected every day, so
that there is a daily supply of dead rabbits.

The spinal cords of these animals are removed, cut
into segments and suspended in bell jars having a
layer of caustic potash at the bottom to absorb the
- moisture; and they are kept at a moderate temperature
in a dark room until the cords are quite dry. The cords i ‘

 

 

 

l

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

R 4 ééjgis

”PLACED IN A CAGE AND LABELLED WITH DATE. ”

 

 

are then rubbed up With a broth until an emulsion is
formed, and the treatment of a patient begins by an
inoculation With the emulsion of a cord 14 days old,
and ends With one from a cord three days old.
It will be noticed that these grotesque methods are upon
much the same lines as those adopted for the vaccines
and serums, and are but a modiﬁcation of the inoculation
quackery of the eighteenth century.

It is very doubtful if there is any such disease as rabies.
Any dog that shows excitability or eccentricity, Whether
from thirst, pain, toothache, ill—treatment or distemper,
stands the chance of being called mad and being blud-

10

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

geoned to death. It is not usually allowed to live long
enough for the fallacy to be exposed.

“Hydrophobia” is merely a form of tetanus, and has
a similar origin. Both are probably due to the presence of
a foreign body—in some cases dirt, or grit, or in the case
of a dog—bite, a piece of clothing carried by the sharp—
pointcd canine tooth through the ﬂesh and buried deep
in the tissues—thus setting up irritation of a terminal
nerve, inﬂammation ultimately extending along the
course of the nerve to the spinal cord. The so-called
“bark” of a hydrophobic patient is merely where the
larynx has become affected through its nerve supply.
The length of time which often occurs between a bite and
its results is due to the variable period it takes for the
foreign body to start the mischief and reach the nerve
centres.

That the anti—rabic virus is useless is proved by the
fact that the Pasteur Institutes themselves record officially
thousands of instances where inoculated patients have
succumbed to hydrophobia. In some well—authenticated
instances the patient has died whilst the animal lived.
This would appear as if the inoculation of the virus itself
had caused the disaster. This is easily accounted for,
inasmuch as the conveyance of dead matter—like that
of a spinal cord many days old—deep into the tissues,
through a wound created by a pointed syringe, is on all
fours with the case of a person dying from tetanus, as the
result of dirt becoming embedded beneath the skin which
has been wounded, perhaps, by the sufferer falling upon
broken glass or a rusty nail.

It is more than probable, also, that many of our
wounded soldiers suffered far more from the tetanus
antitoxin which was injected into them on the battle-
ﬁeld than from the result of their wounds; for, whereas
the wounds are specially washed and attended to as
quickly as possible and the foreign body removed, the
case is complicated by another wound being created and
another foreign body being deliberately injected elsewhere,
the process being frequently repeated, with the absolutely
certain result of blood-poisoning and the possible origina-
tion of tetanus.

In conclusion, let me ask what can any sensible man
or woman who does not happen to be a “Scientist” think

11

 

 




 

 

of all this? We laugh at the “witch’s cauldron,” the
African fetish man, the wizards, the necromancers and
the soothsayers of the old world, but are we any way in
advance of them? If the story I have told be the story
of “progress” in these days of boasted medical science
and civilisation, then the sooner we get back to the
“barbarism” of ancient days the less likely are we to
become involved in the reﬁned savagery of the present
time.

ADDENDUM .——An extraordinary number of vaccines for
tuberculosis have been put on the market, and all, from
Koch to Dreyer, have proved failures. Strenuous efforts
are now being made to secure ﬁnancial backing for M.
Spahlinger, who has evolved a serum said to be made
from 22 different germs, passed through the bodies of as
many horses.

 

BRITISH UNION FOR ABOLITION 0F VIVISECTION.

32, CHARING CROSS, LONDON, S.W.1.

Presi dent : Secretary :
Dr. HADWEN, J.P. Miss B. E. KIDD.

Life Membership: £5.
Annual Member’s Subscription: 10/-.
Associates: 5/- and 2/6.

Organ of the Union: The ABOLITIONIST.
Twopence Monthly.

 

 

 

 

DEVERELL, GIBSON & HOARE, LTD.,
Bromley Buildings, Bread Street Hill,
London, E.C.4.

 




