ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P. O. Box 3650
‘VASHINGTON, D. C. 20007

April 24, 1974
SENT TO PAPERS PUBLISHING SIGNED ARTICLES

Congratulations on the piece you wrote about Wildlife Week, emphasizing the
cause of endangered species in our country.

The Endangered Species Act which protects native species was broadened and
strengthened in 1969 and 1973 so that it applies to threatened species in other parts
of the world. Federal law prohibits importation of such animals or any parts or
products made from them.

The great whales, decimated by the commercial greed of the Japanese and Soviet
whaling industries, are in dire need of protection. No whaling is done by the United
States, and whale products have been banned since 1971. But every year tens of thou-
sands of these magnificent creatures are blasted by the grenade—tipped harpoons of the
Japanese and Russian whaling fleets, to make such things as cosmetics, crayons, machine
oil, and food for mink and sable. There are substitutes for every whale product, but
there is no substitute for the whales themselves. The role they play in the ocean eco—
system is not yet fully understood, but scientists fear the consequences of the exter~
mination of the great whales.

The whole world has called for a ten—year moratorium on commercial whaling. Three
times, resolutions for the moratorium have passed without a single opposing vote at the
United Nations meetings on the environment: in Stockholm in 1972, in Geneva in 1973, and
in Nairobi in 1974, but the killing goes on, 90% of it by Japan and the USSR.

American and British conservation groups are calling on all citizens to boycott
Japanese and Soviet goods until these countries agree to the ten—year moratorium on
commercial killing of whales. The National Wildlife Federation, sponsor of National
Wildlife Week, whose observance you urged, is a major force in the boycott campaign.
The Animal Welfare Institute, Friends of the Earth, Center for Science in the Public
Interest, the Wilderness Society, and many other organizations are pressing the boy-
cott as the only effective means of bringing about a cessation of whaling before it is
too late.

Reprints of a few representative articles and editorials on the subject are
enclosed. If you wish additional information, I will be glad to have it sent to you.
I hope you will urge your readers to refuse to buy Japanese and Russian goods till
whaling is stopped by these nations.

With appreciation of your support for the saving of endangered species of wildlife.
Sincerely yours,

WW. to

John W. Walsh, M.D., C airman
Scientific Advisory Committee

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P. 0. Box 3650
WASHINGTON, D. C. 2000?

April 24, 1974

SENT TO PAPERS PUBLISHING UNSIGNED ARTICLES

Dear Sir:

Congratulations on the article you published about Wildlife Week, emphasizing the
cause of endangered species in our country.

The Endangered Species Act which protects native species was broadened and
strengthened in 1969 and 1973 so that it applies to threatened species in other parts of
the world. Federal law prohibits importation of such animals or any parts or products
made from them.

The great whales, decimated by the commercial greed of the Japanese and Soviet
whaling industries, are in dire need of protection. No whaling is done by the United
States, and whale products have been banned since 1971. But every year tens of thousands
of these magnificent creatures are blasted by the grenade—tipped harpoons of the Japanese
and Russian whaling fleets, to make such things as cosmetics, crayons, machine oil, and
food for mink and sable. There are substitutes for every whale product, but there is no
substitute for the whales themselves. The role they play in the ocean ecosystem is not
yet fully understood, but scientists fear the consequences of the extermination of the
great whales.

The whole world has called for a ten-year moratorium on commercial whaling. Three
times, resolutions for the moratorium have passed without a single opposing vote at the
United Nations meetings on the environment: in Stockholm in 1972, in Geneva in 1973, and
in Nairobi in 1974, but the killing goes on, 90% of it by Japan and the USSR.

American and British conservation groups are calling on all citizens to boycott
Japanese and Soviet goods until these countries agree to the ten—year moratorium on
commercial killing of whales. The National Wildlife Federation, sponsor of National
Wildlife Week, whose observance you urged, is a major force in the boycott campaign.
The Animal Welfare Institute, Friends of the Earth, Center for Science in the Public
Interest, the Wilderness Society and many other organizations are pressing the boycott
as the only effective means of bringing about a cessation of whaling before it is too
late.

Reprints of a few representative articles and editorials on the subject are en-
closed. You may wish to reprint one of them or to write an editorial of your own urging
your readers to refuse to buy Japanese and Russian goods. If you wish additional infor—
mation, I will be glad to have it sent to you.

With appreciation of your support for the saving of endangered species of wildlife.
Sincerely yours,

Mala)

John W. Walsh, M.D., airman
Scientific Advisory Committee

 




(\NIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P. O. Box 3650
‘VASHINGTON. D. C. 20007

April 24, 1974

SENT TO PAPERS PUBLISHING EDITORIALS

Dear Sir:

Congratulations on the fine editorial you published concerning Wildlife Week,
emphasizing the cause of endangered species in our country.

Because there is widespread interest in the United States in preventing the
extinction of rare animals, we believe your wise thoughts will be heeded.

You mentioned the Endangered Species Act which protects native species. This
Act, strengthened in 1973, also applies to threatened animals in other parts of the

world. Federal law prohibits importation of such animals or any parts or products
made from them.

The great whales, decimated by the commercial greed of the Japanese and Soviet
whaling industries, are in dire need of protection. No whaling is done by the United
States, and whale products have been banned since 1971. But every year tens of thou—
sands of these magnificent creatures are blasted by the grenade-tipped harpoons of
the Japanese and Russian whaling fleets, to make such things as cosmetics, crayons,
machine oil, and food for mink and sable. There are substitutes for every whale prod-
uct, but there is no substitute for the whales themselves. The role they play in the
ocean ecosystem is not yet fully understood, but scientists fear the consequences of
the extermination of the great whales.

The whole world has called for a ten-year moratorium on commercial whaling.
Three times, resolutions for the moratorium have passed without a single opposing
vote at the United Nations meetings on the environment: in Stockholm in 1972, in
Geneva in 1973, and in Nairobi in 1974, but the killing goes on, 90% of it by Japan
and the USSR.

American and British conservation groups are calling on all citizens to boycott
Japanese and Soviet goods until these countries agree to the ten—year moratorium on
commercial killing of whales. The National Wildlife Federation, sponsor of National
Wildlife Week, whose observance you urged, is a major force in the boycott campaign.
The Animal Welfare Institute, Friends of the Earth, Center for Science in the Public
Interest, the Wilderness Society and many other organizations are pressing the boy-

cott as the only effective means of bringing about a cessation of whaling before it is
too late.

 




 

Reprints of a few representative articles and editorials on the subject are
enclosed. You may wish to reprint one of them or to write an editorial of your own
urging your readers to refuse to buy Japanese and Russian goods. If you wish addi—
tional information, I will be glad to have it sent to you.

With appreciation of your support for the saving of endangered species of
wildlife.

Sincerely yours,

9% w- ave/.4

John W. Walsh, M.D.
Chairman
Scientific Advisory Committee

 

 




[\
O
O
O
N
Q
C.
2'
O
[-
U
E
I:
(I)
f:
$
c5
to
\O
m
X
0
an
OI
On
(44'
g...
D
t:
l-
U)
E
LL]
a:
<
LLi
-—i
LL]
3
._l
<
E
Z
<
LLJ
:1:
[—

 

 

in

cc R PAR-Til . t

THURSDAY, JANUARY 24, 1974 ‘

 

 

 

New Mitts lies!

D... 523,245 SAT. 354,797

4%“

JAN 2 2 I974

. al’r-otesl' Japan
Whale ,Killing

A doze members of vari-
ous humane, animal pro-
tection and environmental
groups picketed the offices
of Japan Air Lines at 655
Fifth Av. at noon, to pro-
test Japan’s killing of
whales. '

The demonstrators con-
tend that the Japanese
have ignored quotas set by
the International Whaling
Commission. They said the
total number of whales
icilled ‘by..,t}hef Japanese this
' *ea‘r Would be hearly 20,000.

,SPLASHY PERFORMANCE —— Excursion 'boatyobsera

vers catch this view of California graywhale breach-
ing off Capistrano Beach. Rivulets of (water fall.

from huge tail into shimmering ocean after dive. -
' Times photos by Cliff Otto ,

Show GsOn as Whale Friends Mount Boycotts

BY GORDON GRANT ‘

Times Staff Writer - , _
The passage of the California gray whales down the
coast thiSyear. has, in a small way, sprouted internation-

1 a1 implications in part of Orange‘County, “

High School students in the Capistrano Unified'School
District have endorsed a boycott on all J apanese-made
imports, from automobiles to Cameras, as a protest

against J apan's repeated refusals to take part in a world.

wide maratorium on the slaughter of whales.
Similar boycotts are in effect in other parts: of the
United States under sponsorship 0f the American Ce~

.tacean Society, the Animal Welfare Institute, Friends of _

Animals. Project Jonah (a worldwide organization) and,
locally, the Capistrano Environmental Center.

The 14 nations of the International Whaling Commis-
sion, which meets annually, considered a 10-year mora-

torium on killing of whales at the 1973 conference in

London. Only Japan and Russia opposed the plan, and

~ those two countries alone account [for 90% of the whales
taken every year. ,

"The fact is," said Philip Grignon, marine biologist and
assistant principal of Dana Hills High School, '"that
whaling is a minor industry in Japan compared to its
other products.

"The purpose of our boycott hate and of those in San

Francisco school districts and elsewhere is to make Ja— ‘

panese businessmen pond-er on whether their other ex-
ports shouldlsuffer because of one of their smaller 'induiss
tries" ' . '

Capistrano school district students are distributing? -
leaflets listing the major Japanese products under boy-
cott, including automobiles, ' photographic equipment
and electronic gear such as radios and television sets;

On the lighter side, the migration of the gray whales is
being celebrated with the second annual Festival of the
Whales at Dana Point Harbdr. Held Jan. 25through-
Feb. 3. the program includes daily whale-watching. trips
aboard sportfishin-g boats, lectures, and displays ‘by
schools and marine culture groups.

 




. s .3 i , ..l’:'0

Russo-Japanese war—

cAcocnt on Outdoors JAN 6

Will The Great Whales

(“11‘ 3G0
(”I "it 111+ 1‘1

'11 1(1 ~ ‘79

i’. 3 ill. [Us .21
JAN 2 01974 QM
V' G I d

WASHINGTON —— The subject is_ whales,
but don’ t go away.

I know you ve been bugged to boredom in
recent years by stories about vanishing spe-
cies of life on, Earth. And you’re sick and
tired of the railings regarding every moving
object from the tsetse fly to the aardwolf.

But this time, believe me, they aren’t cry-
ing “aardwolf.” There’s a genuine threat to
the world’s whale population, and you don’t,
have to be a marine biologist or a student of
Herman Melville to understand the implica-
tions of any possible extinction of the whales.

Whales are a unique form of life on Earth,
mammals whOse physiology and minds re-
main a series of mysteries to science—riddles
which, on unraveling, might tell us more
about the origin of life than all our outer-
space eXploration. But the problem seems to
be that the Russians and Japanese have other
views on the subject. Specifically, they see in
whales not the mysteries of the universe but

the makings of daily food/for hounds in Lenin-
grad and pancake makeup for Tokyo geishas.

THIS IS THE ONLY conclusion to be drawn
from the whale-hunting policies being pursued,
with a vengeance, by the Soviet and Japa-
nese governments. For there is, you see, a
latter— day Russo Japanese war going on, an
‘alliance of the whale hunters of those two
countries against the world’s remaining
whale p0pu1ation. And if we can believe the.

 

experts, it’ 8 nothing less than a war of totai~

extermination -- what commercial tech-
nocrats of these countries might even call a
final solution to the whale problem.

As such things go, it’s a lovely war for Rus-
so-Japanese hunters, with fat profits for
themselves and a neat rate of enemy casu-
alties. Take, for example, the fich whale
of the Antarctic: depleted in recent years
from 380,000 to 77,000. The rate of slaughter
for other. whale Species, such as minke and
sperm, tells much the same story.

Were the Russians and Japanese carrying
on their joint war against whales out of some
national urgency —- that is, to serve some
fundamental human need — it might be un-
derstandable, if not excusable. But that isn’t
the case. Whale produCts in the Soviet Union
and Japan, as indicated, are going into items
such as dog food and cosmetic additives. In
brief, frivolous items of conspicuous con-
sumption which critics of America, particu-
larly those from the Communist sphere, like
to invoke as evidence of capitalist consumer
decadence.

' INDEED, THE Russo-JAPANESE whale
war conStitutes one of those shortsighted ex-
ercises in 'slaughter-for-profit which con-
genitally anti-American propagandists have
overthe years attributed to greedy capital-
ism. But the fact is that this country has tak-
en the lead in efforts to bring about an inter-
national agreement to halt the indiscriminate

. killing of whales.

against whales

Last June, U. S. representatives at the Lon-
don meeting of the International Whaling
Commission succeeded in getting a majority
of commercial fishing nations to agree on
minimum conservation measures designed to
permit whale species to replenish. Along with
a majority of countries, the United States is
also seeking a lO—year moratorium on all
whale fishing.

All to no avail in changing the ways 0f the
Russians and Japanese, who followed the
same aggressive approach in asserting fish-
ing rights in North American regions.

CURRENTLY, A JOINT congressional res-
olution sponsored by Sen. Warren Magnuson
(D-Wash.) and others would require that the
US. State and Commerce departments re-
view our entire trade agreement structure
with the RuSsians and Japanese. What the
Mag’nuson resolution says, in effect, is that
since all else has failed, some form of direct
economic pressure is needed if the world’s
diminishing whale population is to be rescued
from slaughter.

To be sure, the rescue of whales isn’t the ,

kind of big-stroke dramatics that can win
anyone a Nobel Peace Prize. But the cessa-
tion of the unconscionable war to exterminate
these unique creatures is nevertheless a mat-
ter our peripatetic secretary of state might
consider taking up, in no uncertain terms,
with his Russian and Japanese friends in
those well- publicized travels along the via
pacifica.

ow Become Extinct?

By Bill Clede, Times Outdoor Writer

Whales have been a concern
oF'cﬁﬁs'EF-vationists for years.
.Now the concern has become
a controversy.

The National Wildlife
Federation, in a strongly-
worded letter to President
Nixon, has urged an American
boycott of Japanese and
Russian products in response
to “these countries’ short-
'sighted and callous whaling
activities.” .

According to NWF Executive
Vice President Thomas Ki.m«
ball, Japan and the Soviet
Union have been unwilling to
revise their whaling practices.

“The bestscientific in-
formation available po i-nt 5

towards the extinction of at
least some of the eight species
of great whales,” Kimball
said, “unless all whaling na-
tions are willing to revise their
practices to the d e g r e e
necessary to insure tb e
survival of. these huge marine
animals.”

The. Japanese and Soviets
are now the only ones engaged
in major whale—killing efforts,
according to Kimwball The
United States phased out its
last wthale fleet in 1971 and
has banned the importation of
all whale products.

The British, Norwegians and
Dutch left the major hunting
grounds — the Antarctic and

North Pacific — a few years
ago when the Simply of whales
dropped so low th at ex-
peditions became unprofitable

While Kimball admits there
is a dearth of comprehensive
and reliable population
statistics on whales, scientific
indications a 11 d declining
whale harvests point to a ma-
jor survival threat for most
species of whales.

In the past 50 years, more
than two million whaleslhave
been killed to produce
lubricants, cosmetics, soap,
paint, shoe polish a n d
margarine. The Japanese and
Russians eat whale meat but
Kimball claims its contribution
to the protein budget is small.

Over the past three whaling
seasons, the kill has averaged
37,000, a decline blamed on
fewer whales. The quota for
the 1973-74 season, set by the
International Whaling Com-
mission, is 37,500.

Last year, the Japanese
mounted four whaling ex-
peditions and the Russians
three. Each consists of a fac-
tory ship and a fleet of small,
fast catcher boats.

At the UN. Conference on
the Human Environment last
year, a unanimous vote called
for a 10-year moratorium or.
whaling. This past June, the
American delegation urged the
moratorium at the Interna-
tional Whaling Commission.

' Kimball.

“At the meeting, both Russia
and Japan declared th eir
unwillingness to abide by an
earlier decision made by all
14 member nations to give the
Commission a stronger
Secretariat ” Kimball ex-
plained. “And the Japanese
voted against three principal
conservation decisions and the
Russians opposed two.”

Only Japan opposed the
Commission recommendation
to limit the 1973-74 harvest of
fin wihales to 1,450 and phase
it out by 1976, according to
The United States
had urged a complete
moratorium. Once estimated
to number a half «million, the
population of fin whales is now
put at some 80,000.

Both the Soviets a nd
Japanese have said‘ they will
not limit their take of minke
whales to “5,000 this year, the
same as last year. Japan had
agreed, then the Soviets decid-
ed to harvest the minke, beat
Japan to the Antarctic hunting
waters and took the first 3,200,
limiting the Japanese catch to
some 2,500.

Kimball says Japan is us-
ing its own scientific figures
this year to justify taking up
to 12,230 minke whales.

. “Since Japan and Russia are
acting within the legal can-
straints of the IWC charter,”
Kimball said, “that body is '
apparently helpless to act.” E]

 




(harm-Junta! 8: Times
Louisville, Ky.
SUN. 350.303

JAN 27 1974 W

Save-a-whale w

drive opposes

Japan, USSR.

By IRSTON R. BARNES

THE ,RUTHLESS‘KILLING of whales
has long outraged thoughtful people

everywhere. Five of the major species— .

the blue, humpback, gray, bowhead and

right whales—are already so reduced in
numbers that commercial exploitation is
no longer profitable. So the whalers have
now turned to the Antarctic fin, minke,
sperm and sei whales, continuing their
slaughter with. contemptuous disregard
for world Opinion. But now, thanks tothe
organizing efforts of the Animal Welfare
Institute,-you can join in a save the whale
campaign by boycotting all products of
Japan and Russia.

Leadership in arousing public opinion
to preserve whales was taken by the
Society for Animal ProtectiveLegislation
in sponsoring a congressional resolution
instructing our State Department to
seek to negotiate a 10-year moratorium
on the killing of all species of whales. In
June 1972, the United States delegation
urged a 10-year moratorium at the Stock-
holm United Nations Conference on the
Human Environment; it was approved
by 53 nations, with none opposing.

JAPAN AND RUSSIA have since made
that United Nations action an exercise
in futility. At the International Whaling
Commission meeting in London later in
June of 1972, the same moratorium was

© The Washington Post

rejected by the 14-nation commission, the
United States being supported only by
the United Kingdom, Argentina and Mexi-
co. The IWC has been aptly called “the
whalers’ club”; it has been quite incap-
able of protecting whales as an economic
resource.‘ But in the June 1973 meeting,
the IWC spllt 8-5 on the moratorium with
Denmark not voting, the action failing for
want of a 75 per cent majority.

The IWC June 1973 meeting, with the
added support of Norway, Iceland and
South Africa, then adOpted new quotas

' designed to reduce the kill. The quota

for Antarctic fin whales was set at 1,450,
a cut of 25 per cent, with all hunting to
end in 1976. (The world whale population
is estimated to have fallen 80 per cent
in less than 30 years.) Area quotas were
established. for Antarctic sperm Whales;
only a‘pOI‘thll of the quota could be taken
in . one region. The quota on minke
whales was held at 5,000. '

IN SEPTEMBER 1973, Japan an-
nounced It would disregard the IWC’s ac-
tion and Set its own quotas in line with
“Japaiheseedlprtlei‘esttst.” Russia subsequently
annou c a 1 oo woul
the IWC quotas. d not. observe

.In recent years, Japan and Russia have
killed 85 to 90 per cent of the whales
slaughtered. With highly efficient ocean
fleets, Japanese and Russian whalers

Despite opposition, whale hunting continues.

have pursued the great mammals to their
last refuge, the Antarctic seas. With
spotter aircraft, sonar-equipped pursuit
raft, factory ships and tankers, the
carnage has been carried on with devas-
tating efficiency.

In justification of their “right” to
exterminate these great mammals, the
Japanese say that they need the meat to
feed their people. The Russians make
no apologies, not even the profit motive,
for their rapacious greed.

The fact is-that whale meat has consti-
tuted less than 1 per cent of the protein
in the Japanese diet. Until stopped in
early 1971 by our endangered species
and marine mammals laws, the Japanese
exported some 12 million pounds of
whale meat to this country as pet food!
The Russians have used much of their
whale meat to feed minks and sables on
furlfarms!

The Animal Welfare Institute (PO.
Box 3650, Washington, DC. 200075, in
association with Friends of the Earth
and other conservation groups, has now
launched .a boycott against Japanese and
Russian products. For this notable
initiative, I have sent my first con-
servation contribution of 1974 to AWI
and I am going to display their bumper
sticker: Stop the Whale Killers. Boycott
Japanese goods.”

INDIANAPOLIS STAR February 1974

EXCEPT RUSSIA. JAPAN .

By Jeffrey Hart

_ Nations Want Whaling Moratorium

The moment may be at hand to do some-
thing' effective about the continuing slaughter
of the world’s whale population—and if so it
has arrived mine too soon, for unless the
relentless slaughter of th e, ‘
whales made possible by mod-
ern technology is brought un-
der control these impressive ‘
creatures face certain extinc-
tion.

For some reason not alto-
gether clear to me, American
conservatives have not on the
whole been notable for their
interest in—and savor the iro- Hart
ny here—conservation. There ’
exist, to be sure, outstanding exceptions such
as New York’s Senator James Buckley.

‘But what is at stake in conservation is a
principle profoundly conservative; and one that
goes beyond the preservation of this species or
that, however desirable in itself such preserva-
tion might be. The issue involves man’s funda-
mental attitude toward the world around him;
or, in other words, it involves the sort of being
he himself chose-s to be. The purely exploita-
tive attitude toward the non-human - world has
its roots in the utilitarian tradition of the 19th

century—a liberal tradition, I might add. And.

it is no ceincidence that this attitude entailed
not only a gross exploitation of nature but of
other human beings as well. Prior ‘to the 19th
century the dominant tradition was one of
careful stewardship.

WITH TWO FLAGRANT EXCEPTIONS, the
nations of the world now favor a 10-year mora-
torium on commercial whaling. Such a morato-
rium was approved 53-0 by the nations attend-
ing a Stockholm conference on the subject in
1972. It was unanimously approved in Geneva
in 1973. In 1972, the AUJS. Senate and House of

‘Representatives voted unanim0usly for the

moratorium. . .

Japan and the Soviet Union are the large-
scale whale killers at present, and both have
been refusing to go along with the moratorium.
Both, however, ought to be aspecially vulnera-

ble to international pressure just now.

Judging by the reception Premier Kakuei
Tanaka received during his recent tour through
neighboring Asian countries, Japan’s interna-
tional reputation is none too favorable. In fact,
Japan is increasingly being perceived as a
modern version of Victorian B i r min g h a m-
Manchester-Leeids, an example of runaway ov-
erdevelopment pursued 'without regard to any
other considerations. The attitude of the Japa-
nese toward their whaling is a prime symbol
of this: a willingness to slaughter. the whales
for short-run profit despite the, certainty of
long-run disaster. _

The less said about the international reputa-
tion of the Soviet Union the better, and thank
you very much, Mr. Solzhenitsyn. But the (Sovi-
ets do desire ' expanded trade relations with the
West, and people like Senator Buckley might
well be able to put pressure on them concern-
ing their ocean-going abatoirs.

Modern whaling is a peculiarly messy busi-
ness, far different from the adventurous Moby
Dick hunts of yesteryear. -

“THE PRESENT-DAY HUNTING harpoon,”
writes one eyewitness, “is a horrible
150-pound weapon carrying an explosive head
which generally bursts in the whale’s intestines,
and the sight of one of these creatures pouring
blood and gasping along the surface towing a
400-ton. catching vessel is pitiful. So often an
hour or more of torture is inflicted before the
agony ends in death. I have experienced a
case of five hours and nine harpoons needed to
kill one mother blue whale. If we could imag-
ine a horse having two or three explosive
Spears driven into it, and then made to drag' a
heaVy butcher’s truck while blood poured over
the roadway until the animal collapsed an hour
or more later, we should have some idea of
what a whale goes through.”

Conservationists organized as the Animal
Welfare, Institute, P.0. Box 3650, Washington,
D.C., have plenty of good ideas about ways of
letting the Japanese and the Soviets know how

we feel.
(Kine Features Syndicate)

 




Ely: ﬂiiumi ﬁrrah‘i

MIAMI. FLA.
D, $512,009 sun, 943,030

JAN 7 1974 5/“

J apan’s ‘Whalers Harpoon Decency

IHURTLING beyond man’s solar
system is a piece of rocketry bearing a
message to any form of intelligent life
that might inhabit planets beyond the
Milky way. That message shows man
and w o m a n offering Open-handed
friendship from Earth. .

We wonder at the sincerity of the
message, considering what men of this
planet do to other intelligent beings.
There is no effort“ to communicate ex-
cept with spears and guns.

We are thinking now of the whalea
highly intelligent mammal that is being
hunted to the point of extinction. The
whale is being butchered for such noble
purposes. as canned pet food. Can
intelligent life out in the galaxy expect
any more tenderness than that?

The cruelest killers of the whale are
the Japanese who have decided to ig~
n 0 re the quotas. set for certain
endangered species by the l4-nation
International Whaling Commission last
June in London. Even the Russians had'
gone along “to make thevote 13-1, but
With the subsequent rejection by Japan,
the Soviet Union announced it would
not be bound by its own approving vote.

It is a measure of Japanese efficien-
cy that the country’s whaling industry is
reported to have set. a- schedule of
slaughter that will reduce the whale
population to commercial extinction lev-
els at the ,same time Japan’s factory
ships become too old to operate eco-
nomically.

Considering that Karl Marx was

such an expert on the subject of explois

tation, certain that it would wither
away in a workers’ paradise, it is
interesting that conservationists have
concluded that the Soviet Union’s ac-
tions and attitude toward slaughter of
whales is “more greedy, imperialistic
and~ exploitive than any capitalistic na-
tion, with the exception of Japan.”

‘ World Opinion has had no effect on
the greedy Japanese. It has not even
been easy to get American grocers to
st0p stocking whale products on their
shelves. ‘

But perhaps there, is hOpe in the
tightening fuel crisis and the tripling of
prices by the Ara'b oil'nations. The Japa-
nese might have to make a choice be-
tWeen fuel for their whaling fleet and
fuel for their busy camera and auto-
mobile assembly lines.

It is something to hope for frequent-
1y, like every 12 to 14 minutes when an-
other intelligent giant that lives in
Earth’s seas will be harpooned.

0hr ﬁrm Earl: minim

NEW YORK, N. Y.
D. 846.132 3. 1.407.549

JAN 61974 W

WHILE PRODUCTS
'10 BE' BOYGOTI'ED

2 in'France Dramatize Fate
0! Disappearing Species

PARIS, Jan. 5 (Reuters) —
Two young French ecologists,
determined to dramatize the
fate of whale speCies they .say
are threatened with extinction,
plan to draw up a. blacklist
of whale products in, France
and to jam the crew of a

' ship planning to sabotage whale

hunts.

Nicolas Desplats and Georges
Dewez, both 23 years old, are
leading the European side of
Project Jonah, a. campaign by
individuals in eight countries
to get Japan and the Soviet
Union to halt their harpooning.

So far, with the campaign
still in its infancy here, their
petition for support has gained
10,000 signatures, including
those of an oceanologist,
Jacques-Yves Cousteau, a vol-
canologist, Haroun TaZieff, and
an Arctic explorer, Paul-Emile
Victor. . . '

The project originated in
1969 in the United States, then
spread to Britain and on to
France, Australia, South Afri-
ca, Norway, Sweden and Cana-
da

Mr. Dewez says that whale
hunting by the Japanese and
Russians has brought seven spe-
ciesof whale close to extinc-

tion.

The blacklist of products to
be boycotted will include those
using whale oil, such as lip-
sticks, candles, linoleum and
glycerin. Whale meat is used
for cat and dog food. 4

In another move, a delega-
tion will call on Emperor Hiro-
hito for a suspension of- whale
hunting for 10 years so that
the threatened speCies can have
a chance to replenish their
ranks.

 

minimumm Erihune
MINNEAPOLIS. MINN.
D. 240,275 SUN. 674,302

1 1974 W

The endangered Whales.

Whaling has undergone quite a change
since the Captain Ahabs of the 19th
century set out from their New Eng-
land ports to risk their lives in pursuit
of the mighty leviathan. There isn't
much risk for today's Whalers, and the
leviathan isn't so mighty compared
with the whalers' factory ships, elec-
tronic gadgetry and explosive-tipped
harpoons. Today, a whale is killed
every 14 minutes, and the risk — a
very real one—is that there soon may
not be any whales left to kill.

Already, the right, blue, humpback
and gray whales have been hunted to
commercial extinction. Under existing
quotas, the fin whale- will prob-
ably soon reach that status. (Whalers
couldn't find enough fin whales to
meet last year's quota of 1,000.) The
United States recognized the poten-
tial for extinction in 1971, when eight
kinds of whales were placed on the
endangered species list, and it banned
the importation of whale products.

' The United Nations Human Environ-

ment Conference :last year voted 55
to 0 for a lO-year‘moratorium on whal.
ing to prOvide time for the remaining
whales to rebuild their numbers. But
the International Whaling Commis-
sion, dominated by the {whaling in-
dustry, would not go along with the
moratorium proposal. ’

So the hunt goes on, with Japan and
the Soviet Union accounting for most
of it. Whales are slaughtered for their
meat (almost all of it going into pet

food or use on commercial fur farms)
and for byproducts that go into such
preparations as lipstick, shoe polish
and car wax. But all those products
can be made inexpensively —* some
more inexpensively -- from other ma-
terials. Why hunt whales, then? Main-
1y because the remaining whaling na-
tions have a lot of money tied up in
ships and other equipment. Rather
than have those investments go to
waste, the whaling nations (which also
include Norway, South Africa and
Peru) are ready to keep on hunting
whales until there are too few whales
left to make it commercially feasible.

That day may come sooner than an-
ticipated. Japan has informed the In-
ternational Whaling Commission that
it will not abide by its already too-
high quotas on sperm and minke
whales and will not, as the commis-
sion urged, phase out the killing cf
fin whales by 1976. Since the commis-
sion has no enforcement pewers, the

Japanese will apparently be able to

take those actions with impunity.

What the loss of the whale will mean
to the ecology of the sea —— and, ulti-
mately, the planet —- can't be guessed.
The results may soon become appar-v
ent, however, unless Japan and the
other whaling nations can somehow be
persuaded that they have 'no right to
deprive the world of one of its won-
ders for the sake of short-term eco-
nomic gain.

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE, PO. BOX 3650, WASHINGTON, D.C., 20007

 

 




 

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P. 0. Box 3650
\VASHlNG'rON, l). C. 2000?

 

The IWC meets, and the killing continues

By Christine Stevens, President

Every day of the week beginning June 2hth, delegates of the 15 member
nations of the International Whaling Commission argued over and voted on
the killing of whales. On the opening day, the Japanese delegation told
the press that although their country was opposed to any blanket moratorium
it would accept a reduction in the size of the catch.* But the decrease
in number of whales to be harpooned this year is only about a half of one
percent: 37,300 as compared with last year's quota of 37,500. The Japanese
Commissioner, Mr. Iwao Fujita voted consistently for the highest quotas
at every opportunity.

The ten-year moratorium on commercial whaling, proposed by the United
States for the third successive year, was amended by Australia to provide
a selective moratorium on Species or populations of whales when their
numbers fall below optimum population levels. Adopted by a vote of 13-2,
the proposal is due to be put into practice a year from now. It is widely
believed that this will result in an end to the killing of fin whales for
an indeterminate period while this persecuted species tries to repopulate
itself; however, Japan and the USSR both voted against the selective mora-
torium and have ninety days to lodge objections and bow out of the whole
scheme, under the provisions of the loophole-ridden IWC treaty. Or they
could reject any of the decisions taken under the new policy next year,
using the same loophole. Until they actually stop killing whales, nothing
is certain.

Even a discussion on development of a humane killing method for the
thousands of whales whose deaths the IWC formally approves, was blocked by
the Japanese Commissioner when the American Commissioner, Dr. Robert White,
asked that it be placed on the agenda. Because of the Japanese action,
another year must go by before humane methods can even be talked about,
much less implemented, as the killing continues. '

The ten-year moratorium is needed more than ever, and the boycott of
Japanese and Russian goods, combined with a government embargo of as many
of these goods as possible, is the only sure route to success in saving
the whales.

Nearly all of the counter-argument offered by the Japanese whaling
industry is based on the use of whale meat for human consumption in Japan.
But if the industry were genuinely concerned with providing the maximum
amount of protein to feed people, it would have to take a completely
different point of view. Based simply on the amount of tons of dead whale
to be procured over a period of years, it would have to stop killing fin,
sei and Sperm whales now. In a statement at the conclusion of the meeting
John Burton of Friends of the Earth, Ltd. said, "It is perhaps worth remind-
ing the Commission of the price the world is being asked to pay for the com-
promise which you have reached. One way of looking at it is to calculate
the loss of whale catch in the future, if you continue to permit a catch
of 1000 fin whales in the Antarctic instead of a zero quota, in the recovery
period. The figure is a loss of about one to one and a half million tons
over the recovery period."

These figures lend credence to the belief of many conservationists
that the whaling industry is quite prepared to "kill the goose that laid
the golden egg" so long as their short-term profits continue up to the
cut-off point they select, and that they have as little interest in the
welfare of their own Species as they have in that of the whales.

23,000 sperm whales are scheduled to be slaughtered in the coming season,
but Mr. Burton continues, "If sperm whales are calculated on the real basis
of weight, they are already far below the maximum sustainable yield level.

So in terms of the Australian amendment, the Sperm whale should be classified
as a 'protected stock' and have a zero quota next year."

 

*The New York Times (UPI), June 21;, 197A

OVER

 




Mr. I. Rindal, the Norwegian Commissioner, who chairs the IWC, assured
the press that Japan and the USSR would accede this year to the 13-2 vote
for the selective moratorium known as the Australian amendment. The Mexican
Commissioner, Miss S. Fuentes-Berain, expressed a less optimistic view.

She said, "It is for three years now that I have sat on this Commission as
the representative from Mexico and my statement of disappointment at the
end of our discussion has become, sadly, almost an item of the agenda. I
have hoped that with patience and understanding we would see the Commission
assume its global responsibility to adequately protect endangered Species of
whales. The Stockholmﬂs UN recommendation for a world wide moratorium on
commercial whaling was greeted by my Government as a serious sign that the
time had come to take decisive steps to fulfill our commitment to protect
and conserve whale stocks - not only for present utilization, but for the
future needs of unborn generations. As you may recall, my Government, in
recognition of this need, declared the first international whale haven in
Baja California in 1972. We have, as you also know, consistently and hope-
fully supported the proposed moratorium. We feel it is still the most
effective way to insure the survival of stocks in questionable condition,
and insure adequate understanding of the status of all stocks through an
intensified scientific programme.

"We must admit, ladies and gentlemen, that this recent meeting causes
us little optimism. Unlike Mr. Rindal, we see no essential change in either
heart or policy concerning our basic responsibilities. We are deeply con-
cerned over the action of those delegations which support the ten year mora-
torium on all commercial hunting, and yet, consistently vote for high quotas
on individual species. We are also deeply concerned over the failure of
the Commission as a whole to recognize the serious danger to Antarctic and
North Pacific fin whales and to put conservation considerations ahead of
economic considerations at this critical juncture. It is difficult for us
to understand how delegations can support a total moratorium, and then
abstain from, or vote for high quotas on fin whales.

"Perhaps the most encouraging sign at this year's meeting is the Com-
mission's willingness to not only strengthen, but to broaden the scientific
basis of its management policies. We feel that attention should be paid
to obtaining data on the breeding behaviour of whales as it influences
reproduction; as well as making allowances for behavioural influences on
sighting data. ‘We hope that there will beaimore complete flow of scientific
information on the subject and welcome the increased input of scientific
information from FAO and the United Nations Environment Programme.

"In conclusion I would like to say, somewhat sadly, that if the immedi-
ate future does not bring significant protection for the whales where they
are endangered, and the ten year moratorium With a broadened and deepened
international research effort, is not approved, this Commission will be
known to history as a small body of men who failed to act responsibly in
the terms of a very large commitment to the world and who protected the
interests of a few Whalers and not the future of thousands of whales."

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P. 0. Box 3492
GRAND CENTRAL STATION

NEW YORK, N. Y. 10017

(212) 581-7320

To: Biologists

From: The Scientific Committee of the Animal Welfare Institute

Your attention is called to the nature of biology experiments being

conducted by some high school students. Currently, youngsters from age

twelve on are being encouraged to do animal experiments involving surgi-
cal operations, induction of painful pathological conditions, and such
other projects as subjection of pregnant animals to severe stress and ob—
servation of the resulting malformed progeny.

Experiments involving pain to animals have no place outside legiti-
mate programs for acquisition of new information in bona fide research
institutions and places of higher learning. It is indefensible to hurt
or kill animals in the name of scientific inquiry when no knowledge or
skill contributing to human or animal welfare or safety is gained thereby.
Elementary and secondary school "experimentation” does not meet these
criteria. Furthermore, this type of exercise can damage the young student
emotional development teaching him.to rationalize and condone the unjusti-
fied infliction of pain; it can blunt his intellectual development by giv—
ing a false impression of the meaning of scientific research.

What needs to be encouraged at the high school level is a sharpening
of the ability to observe and perceive, a development of the spirit of ob-
jective inquiry and reasoning, and a sound sense of values. None of these
require painful animal procedures or a disregard for life. All are com-
patible with the thesis that scientific development and respect for life

should go hand in hand.

 




2.

If you receive requests for advice, drugs, equipment or animals
for high school student projects, we urge that you use your influence
to prevent projects which may cause pain or fear. Hazardous substances
or drugs causing painful reactions should not be supplied. Animals
should not be given to students without a careful check to ensure that
the proposed project is painless, that facilities for housing and care
of the animals in maximum comfort are available, that the student is
informed about their care, and that suitable provision has been.made for
the animals at the completion.of the project. Those students proposing
painful animal studies should be redirected into non~painful and non—
hazardous studies of humans or animals, or studies of other organisms.
Examples of these can.be found in the following:

"Experiments in Physiology," by William McBlair, the National Press,
Palo Alto, California, 1965. $2.95

"Humane Biology Projects," Animal Welfare Institute, P.O. Box 3&92,

Grand Central Station, New York, N.Y., 10017. Free to teachers.

There is a growing public demand to stop simulated violence on tele—
vision because of its bad effect on young people. Actual firsthand ex-
perience of pain infliction creates a far greater effect in dulling the
sensitivity of youth to pain- Your help in preventing development of
callousness is invited. We should be pleased to hear from you if you wish

further documentation on the problem.

Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D.
Lee R. Dice, Ph.D.
Bennett Derby, M.D.

F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D.
Paul Kiernan, M.D.

Samuel Peacock, M.D.
Richard G. Pearce, D.V.M.
John Walsh, M.D.

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P. O. Box 3492
GRAND CENTRAL STATION

NE‘W YORK, N. Y. 10017

(212) 581-7320

To: Biologists

From: The Scientific Committee of the Animal Welfare Institute

Your attention is called to the nature of biology experiments being
conducted by some high school students. Currently, youngsters from age
twelve on are being encouraged to do animal experiments involving surgi~
cal operations, induction of painful pathological conditions, and such
other projects as subjection of pregnant animals to severe stress and ob-
servation of the resulting malformed progeny.

Experiments involving pain to animals have no place outside legiti-
mate programs for acquisition of new information in bona fide research
institutions and places of higher learning. It is indefensible to hurt
or kill animals in the name of scientific inquiry when no knowledge or

skill contributing to human or animal welfare or safety is gained thereby.

Elementary and secondary school "experimentation" does not meet these

criteria. Furthermore, this type of exercise can damage the young student
emotional development teaching him.to rationalize and condone the unjusti-
fied infliction of pain; it can blunt his intellectual development by giv-
ing a false impression.of the meaning of scientific research.

What needs to be encouraged at the high school level is a sharpening
of the ability to observe and perceive, a development of the spirit of ob-
jective inquiry and reasoning, and a sound sense of values. None of these
require painful animal procedures or a disregard for life. All are com-
patible with the thesis that scientific development and respect for life

should go hand in hand.

 




2.

If you receive requests for advice, drugs, equipment or animals
for high school student projects, we urge that you use your influence
to prevent projects which may cause pain or fear. Hazardous substances
or drugs causing painful reactions should not be supplied. Animals
should not be given to students without a careful check to ensure that
the proposed project is painless, that facilities for housing and care
of the animals in maximum comfort are available, that the student is
informed about their care, and that suitable provision has been.made for
the animals at the completion of the project. Those students proposing
painful animal studies should be redirected into non—painful and non—
hazardous studies of humans or animals, or studies of other organisms.
Examples of these can.be found in the following:

"Experiments in Physiology," by William McBlair, the National Press,
Palo Alto, California, 1965. $2.95

"Humane Biology Projects," Animal Welfare Institute, P.O. Box 3&92,

Grand Central Station, New York, N.Y., 10017. Free to teachers.

There is a growing public demand to stop simulated violence on tele-
vision because of its bad effect on young people. Actual firsthand ex—
perience of pain infliction creates a far greater effect in dulling the
sensitivity of youth to pain- Your help in preventing development of
callousness is invited. We should be pleased to hear from you if you wish

further documentation on.the problem.

Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D.
Lee R. Dice, Ph.D.
Bennett Derby, M.D.

F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D.
Paul Kiernan, M.D.

Samuel Peacock, M.D.
Richard G. Pearce, D.V.M.
John Walsh, M.D.

 




THE NEW YORK TIMES. SATURDAY, MAY 10, 193%

 

Prizes for Torture

There is a growing fad among high school students
to perform heart transplants, brain surgery and other
radical experiments on animals. Among youngsters
interested in science, this desire to imitate the more
spectacular work being done by mature professionals
on the far frontiers of science is understandable. But
it is a desire that must be brought under control.

High school students are not usually skilled enough
to perform these difficult operations. They frequently
end by torturing the helpless monkey or bird or rabbit
or inadvertently sending it to a slow, lingering death.
Adult scientists doing medical research sometimes
have to perform painful animal experiments, but
youngsters who do these botched-up imitations are
not advancing the cause of medical knowledge.

Unfortunately, many adult organizations thought-
lessly encourage high school students to perform
these atrocious “experiments.” Science fairs at the
local, state and national level often award prizes to
students whose only real achievement has been the
deliberfate or inadvertent torture of animals.

High school science teachers and national organiza-
tions can bring this unhealthy fad under control by
refusing encouragement and prizes for bizarre and
inappropriate biological projects.

@1969 By The New York Times Company
Reprinted by permissnm

 




Reprinted from New Scientist. issue dated 9th Jan nary 1.969, pages 69and 70'

Sanctified torture

Despite pungent criticism by humanitarian societies, many American school children
are encouraged by their teachers, by text-books, by public exhibition, and by press, radio and
television attention to conduct horrifying experiments on captive laboratory animals

Before she died of leukaemia, Rachel Carson wrote
something to the effect that to begin by asking
young students of biology to observe artiﬁcial
conditions in their study of life is to create in their
minds what she called “distorted conceptions”. In
her opinion, it thwarted the development of their
natural emotional response to the mysteries of life.

If by artiﬁcial conditions, Miss Carson merely
meant traditional, supervised laboratory work. it
may be wondered what that extra—humane woman
would have said about the sanctiﬁed torture that
goes on in some American school rooms under the
name of biological research. A glance through
American pedagogical literature shows a wide—
spread acceptance of the view that students should
be allowed to do whatever they like in animal work.
and that the production of abnormalities is encou—
raged, and usually gets the prizes in science com—
petitions.

Small animals are whirled round in centrifuges
until they either become paralysed—or die. Others
are launched. dangling precariously below home-
made rockets to simulate space—ﬂight conditions. a
project which. although both unscientiﬁc and de-
monstrably inhumane. was recently cited for its
“excellence“ in the Washington DC educational
area. At the high school of Our Lady of Good
Counsel in Montgomery County. Maryland. mice
were starved in vitamin deﬁciency experiments.
Elsewhere. goldﬁsh were bathed in detergents and.
for some inexplicable reason. rats poisoned with

vodka. Splenectomies are being conducted by l5-
year-old school children in New York.

In what seems to be an effort to keep up with
contemporary culture. experiments with thalido
mide are popular in Huntingdon. West Virginia.
and heart transplants in Columbus. Ohio. In that
city. students dressed up in. surgical masks and
gowns opened up live bull frogs in front of telcvi
sion cameras. lce was used in place of a more
conventional anaesthetic. but as it melted under the
hot studio lights. the performers could no longer
rely on the tapes fastening down their victims. and
they were obliged to restrain the squirming animals
by hand. A commentator. a physics teacher. said
that the exercise was outside his ﬁeld. but the
experiments had the support of the medical people
in the place.

What can be made of theSe horrifying reports?
Are they to be classed among the worst kinds of
anti-vivisectionist propaganda—~the sort of emo-
tional. rabble-rousing stuff that bedevils decent
research conducted by decent investigators? Or is
there something here that needs to be broadcast
widely as examples of what ill-educated parents and
teachers are advocating in support of that protean
monster called independent scientiﬁc inquiry? One
well documented case history may sufﬁce to show
which way things are going.

It concerns an 18—year-old high school boy
called Hartwell T. Ashford who was acclaimed the
winning exhibitor at last year’s Mississippi State

John Hillaby

is biological consultant
to New Scientist

 




Sancﬁﬁed
torture

Squirrel monkey which
had undergone amateur
surgery and attempted
implantation of electrodes
in its brain two weeks
before this picture was
taken. It died a few
hours later as a result
of the infected wound
hidden by the dental
caulk, and general lack
of care

Science Fair for demonstrating “Neuro—electro
telestimulation and epileptic form reactions” (sic)
on squirrel monkeys. Four relics of his previous
experiments on 25 monkeys, including one dying
wreck with pus-exuding holes in its head, were
photographed and shown to busloads of Detroit
school children at the International Science Fair in
Cobo Hall, Detroit. There the experiment came to a
stop (perhaps only temporarily) as a result of a civil
investigation.

The investigation is substantiated by Dr Barbara
Orlans, a physiologist well-versed in animal ex—
perimentation, a researcher who has been associat-
ed with projects at London University, Johns Hop—
kins and the US National Institutes of Health. It
has been attested by a pathologist, Dr Kenneth
Keahey of Michigan State University Veterinary
College and published by the instigators of the
investigation, the Animal Welfare Institute of New
York (Information Report, vol. 17, no. 2).

The institute is an organization which, like the
Universities Federation for Animal Welfare in Bri—
tain, believes that (to quote Schweitzer): “In every
single instance . . . (the scientist) must consider
whether it is really necessary to demand of an
animal this sacriﬁce for Man”. (The emphasis is
mine.)

The Ashford story, as related by the AWI, is
thoroughly unhappy, and reﬂects, principally,
against those who bore the responsibility for the
actions and attitudes of the youthful experimenter
concerned—a charge which, on the printed
evidence, implicates local members of the American
Medical Association who gave a dinner in honour
of the exhibitor.

Operation planned
before photographers

It seems that from the age of 14, young Ashford
had been using stereotaxic equipment, that is an
immobilizing vice, the adjustable bars of which can
be screwed on to the skulls of monkeys, enabling
the user to place electrodes, or other instruments at
a chosen spot within the animal’s brain. When
interrogated, Ashford had already implanted four
electrodes into one very sick animal, and hoped to
insert others in the presence of photographers
from a German magazine.

The sick animal was prostrate when seen by Mrs
Dorothy Dyce, the laboratory animal consultant of
the AW]. Inquiry revealed that the veterinary
surgeon who had inspected the exhibits on the ﬁrst
day of the fair told the fair director that the monkey
needed attention, but the young prize-winner said
he could take care of the monkey himself. Two
days later, the'animal was so much worse that the
fair director ordered it to be taken to a veterinarian
who gave it a shot of penicillin which proved
ineffective. Young Ashford claimed that he was
visiting Detroit “on an expense account” and hoped
to get a grant “to do more surgery”.

After attending to the monkey, Mrs Dyce tele-
phoned the Michigan State Health Department to
get an opinion on the legality of the proposed
electrode implantations in unlicensed premises. and
was advised thatit would be appropriate for her to

New Scientist 9 January 1969

take a copy of the Michigan State law and show it
to the organizers. Returning to the exhibition hall.
Mrs Dyce found that it was closed to the public at
nine o’clock, but at that hour those who were
attending the American Medical Association dinner
in honour of the exhibitors returned to the building.
Mrs Dyce was thanked by the fair direCtorate for
heading off the exhibition surgery which, they said.
would have most seriously damaged the reputation
of the hall and its science fair. But Mrs Ashford
who had accompanied her son to Detroit was
“irate” when informed that his international televi—
sion appearance would be illegal. “We don’t have a
law like that in Mississippi,” she stated emphatical—
ly.

That night the monkey died from a variety of ills
including purulent infection located beneath the
dental caulking which covered the amateur experi-
menter’s surgical efforts. A necropsy disclosed
large areas of sloughed and necrotic skin. The
electrodes did not pass through the skull into the
brain tissue, nevertheless there were holes through
which they could have passed if they had been
embedded properly. There was extensive haemor—
rhage in that area.

Increase in student
backyard surgery

The foregoing is a sad example of what seem to
be quite common practices in some American
schools and homes. This is clear from analyses of
10 recent science fairs which show that 20 per cent
of entries (157 out of 802) involved pain or death to
higher animals. Dr Orlans says that during the last
decade there has been “an alarming increase” in
what she calls student backyard surgery. This
includes skin grafting, the removal of organs, elec-
trical stimulation, intensive irradiation, and drug
and poison injections (especially those calculated to
produce malformed offspring in pregnant animals).

Due to the extra—curricular nature of science
competitions, the projects are usually conducted in
basements, bedrooms or garages, where equipment
limitations alone turn them into a form of elaborate
butchery in which helpless animals are wounded,
maimed or killed. But it would be grossly unfair to
suggest that all school and state authorities are
turning a blind eye to what is going on. A Washing—
ton state law requires that “Not less than 10
minutes each week must be devoted to the system—
atic teaching of kindness to not only domestic but
to all living creatures . . . a general philosophy of
thoughtfulness and consideration for living things
should be incorporated and repeatedly emphasized
in all science teaching.” Other states have proc-
laimed similar injunctions.

The Science Teacher, a widely read journal,has
published articles by Dr Orlans and others on the
boundaries of use of animals in high school biology,
and the National Academy of Sciences’ Institute of
Laboratory Animal Resources has suggested that
insects, other invertebrates, and protozoa are the
materials of choice for most experiments. But if
some move toward a moral sanity in this particular
area of school life has been made, it is evident that
much remains to be done.

 




AVAILABLE TO SECONDARY TEACHERS FROM THE ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

Secondary schoolteachers may obtain one free c0py of each of the following on
request. Prices for additional copies are given below:

 

E] HUMANE BIOLOGY PROJECTS. Animal Welfare Institute, 14 contributors, 41
pages, illustrated. Designed for use in secondary schools. One copy
free; additional c0pies: 35¢.

STUDYING OUR FELLOW MAMMALS. By Ernest P. Walker. 172 pages, 152 illus-
trations. Chapters include: Conservation, Behavior, Intelligence, Form:
Anatomy and Physiology, Ancestry, Care of Captive Animals, Photographing
Animals, Classification, and Animal Distribution. Animal Welfare Institute.
One copy free; additional c0pies: $1.00.

FIRST AID AND CARE OF SMALL ANIMALS. By Ernest P. Walker. Designed for
use in primary and secondary schools. 46 pages, illustrated. Animal
Welare Institute. One copy free; additional c0pies: 35¢.

”THE BOUNDARIES OF USE OF ANIMALS IN HIGH SCHOOL BIOLOGY." By F. Barbara
Orlans. Reprinted from The Science Teacher, Volume 35, Number 7, October
1968. One copy free; additional c0pies: 5¢.

 

"SANCTIFIED TORTURE." By John Hillaby. Reprinted from New Scientist,
9 January 1969. Free.

 

"THE ABUSE OF ANIMALS IN THE CLASSROOM AND HOW IT CAN BE AVOIDED."
Animal Welfare Institute. Reprint from.American Biology Teacher.
One copy free; additional c0pies: 10¢.

 

"RULES GOVERNING TREATMENT OF ANIMALS BY HIGH SCHOOL BIOLOGY STUDENTS,
and REASONS WHY ANIMAL EXPERIMENTS BY HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS SHOULD BE
PAINLESS." Animal Welfare Institute. Free.

"STATEMENT ON ANIMALS IN SECONDARY SCHOOLS." By Dr. W. W. Armistead,
Dean, College of Veterinary Medicine, Michigan State University. One
page. Free.

ADMINISTRATIVE CONTROL OVER SCIENCE FAIR PROJECTS. By William Dunkum,
1969. 4 page leaflet. Free.

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE, P. O. Box 3492, Grand Central Station, New York, New York 10017
Please send me the items checked above:

Name

 

Address

 

 

School

 

 

Remarks

 

 




In one book

for classrooms

and small-animal
laboratories...

OPPORTUNITIES IN
ANIMAL STUDY

RESPONSIBILITIES IN
ANIMAL CARE

BARBARA ORLANS'S

ANIMAL CARE: FROM PROTOZOA TO SMALL MAMMALS

Written in observation of U. S. and Canadian humane guidelines for animals (and federal and state or provincial laws where
applicable), with recurring references and a separate chapter on humane animal care, and with appendices of agencies and
government offices issuing regulations and recommendations for animal care and use.

. obtaining the animals o care and feeding o observation 0 behavioral and biological investigations
0 standards for housing 0 comfort and health 0 culture and breeding (with humane guidelines)

Specificorganisms and genera: paradise fish (Macropodus), white cloud mountain fish

Eug/ena, Amoeba, Paramecium, Vortice/la, Stentor, Hydra, (Tanichthys), sticklebacks (Gasterosteus), Bettas (Betta),
planarians (Dugesia and Phagocyta), vinegar eels (Turbatrix), African clawed toad (Xenopus), other toads (Bufo), frogs
Anguilla, soil nematodes, rotifers (Chi/omonas), earthworms (numerous Rana species), tree frogs (Hy/a), newts and
(Lumbricus, Al/o/obophora, Eisenia), white worms salamanders (Notophtha/mus,Ambystoma, and others),turtles
(Echytraeus), land snails (He/ix), pond snails (Lymnaea, Physa, (Emys, Chrysemys, Pseudemys, and others), lizards (Ana/is,
Planorbis, and others), freshwater mussels (Anodonta), See/Oporus, Gerrhontus, Eumeces, and others), snakes
Daphnia, brine shrimp (Artemia),sowbug (POFCE/ll'O),crayfish (Thamnophis, Storeria, and others), gerbils, mice, rats,
(Cambarus), spiders, insects (numerous species of common hamsters, guinea pigs, and rabbits. Also with selected
orders), goldfish (Carassius), guppies (Poeci/ia or Lebistes), behavioral experiments for Homo.

 

rh ---------------------- ' -------------------- 1

Approximately 360 pages Educational Programs Improvement Corporation
More than 100 photographs, drawings, and diagrams P. O. Box 3406

Clothbound Boulder, Colorado 80303
$11.95 (but see the pre-publication offer)

Please include my order with the first printing of Orlans’s
SPECIAL PR E-PUBLICATION OFFER; Animal Care: From Protozoa to Small Mammals.
$835, postpaid I enclose a check or school purchase order for $8.95.

Name

 

Order early to get in on the cooperative savings of a

 

larger first printing. SChOOI

 

Clip and mail the attached coupon with your check Address

or school purchase order. ,
City

 

 

 

Available in early 1974.

 




PLEASE POST

GUIDING PRINCIPLES FOR USE OF ANIMALS
IN ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY SCHOOLS

1. In biological procedures involving living organisms, species such as plants, bacteria, fungi, protozoa, worms, snails, or insects
should be used wherever possible. Their wide variety and ready availability in large number, the simplicity of their maintenance and
subsequent disposal makes them especially suitable for student work. In mammalian studies, non-hazardous human experiments are
often educationally preferable to the use of species such as gerbils, guinea pigs or mice.

2. No procedure shall be performed on any warm-blooded animal that might cause it pain, suffering, or discomfort or otherwise
interfere with its normal health. Warm-blooded animals include man, other mammals sUch as gerbils, guinea pigs, mice, rabbits,
hamsters and rats. It also includes birds, such as hens, quail, and pigeons. This means that a student shall do unto other warm-
blooded animals only what he can do to himself without pain or hazard to health.

3. No surgery shall be performed on any living vertebrate animal (mammal, bird, reptile or amphibian.)

4. No lesson or experiment shall be performed on a vertebrate animal that employs microorganisms which can cause disease in
man or animal, ionising radiation, cancer producing agents, chemicals at toxic levels, drugs producing pain or deformity, extremes

of temperatures, electric or other shock, excessive noise, noxious fumes, exercise to exhaustion, overcrowding or other distressing
stimuli.

5. Animal observations must be directly supervised by a competent science teacher who shall approve the plan before the
student starts work. Students must have the necessary comprehension and qualifications for the work comtemplated. The
supervisor shall oversee all experimental procedures, shall be responsible for their non-hazardous nature and shall, personally,
inspect experimental animals during the course of the study, to ensure that their health and comfort is fully sustained.

6. Vertebrate studies shall be conducted only in locations where proper supervision is available: either in a school or an
institution of research or higher education. No vertebrate animal stUdies shall be conducted at’a home (other than observations of
normal behavior of pet animals such as dogs or cats).

7. In vertebrate studies, palatable food shall be provided in sufficient quantity to maintain normal growth. Diets deficient in
essential foods are prohibited. Food shall not be withdrawn for periods longer than 12 hours. Clean drinking water shall be available
at all times (and shall not be replaced by alcohol or drugs).

8. Birds’ eggs subjected to experimental manipulations shall not be allowed to hatch; such embryos shall be killed humanely no
later than the nineteenth day of incubation. If normal egg embryos are to be hatched, satisfactory arrangements must be made for
the humane disposal of chicks.

9. In the rare instances when killing of a vertebrate animal is deemed necessary, it shall be performed in an approved humane
(rapid and painless) manner by an adult experienced in these techniques.

10. Projects involving vertebrate animals will normally be restricted to measuring and studying normal physiological functions
such as normal growth, activity cycles, metabolism, blood circulation, learning processes, normal behavior, reproduction,
communication or isolated organ techniques. None of these studies requires infliction of pain.

11. The comfort of the animal observed shall receive first consideration. The animal shall be housed in appropriate spacious,
comfortable sanitary quarters. Adequate provision shall be made for its care at all times, including weekend and vacation periods.
The animal shall be handled gently and humanely at all times.

12. Respect for life shall be accorded to all animals, creatures and organisms that are kept for educational purposes.

Approved by:

The Humane Society of the United States;

The Veterinary Advisory Committee
Robert C. Bay, D.V.M., Chairman

The Special Study Committee on the Use of Animals in
Biomedical Research and Testing

Barbara Orlans, Ph.D., Coordinator

Note: Educators and students may obtain a free listing of recommended study projects and/or project books for pre-university
levels by writing to one of the following sources:

The Humane Society of the United States

The Animal Welfare Institute 1604 K Street Canadian Council on Animal Care

- ' . .20 6
Post Office Box 3650 Washington, D C 00 151 Slater Street
Washington, DC. 20007 Ottawa, KIP 5H3, Ontario

Canada

 




 

CERTIFICATION:

1. for approval to start and
2. to show that direct supervision has been provided throughout the course of the biological observations involving living

non-human vertebrate animals.

Student’s Name:
Grade:
Schook
Address of School: .
Species of Animals: ' . (Number)
Source of Animals:

Location where animals kept during study:
Title of Experiment:

 

(First) (Middle Initial) (Last Name)

 

 

 

 

 

 

Purpose of Study:

 

 

 

 

Describe, precisely, the experimental procedures which will involve living vertebrate animals:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1. This is to certify that the above named student has planned and prepared his/her project which fully complies with these
"GUIDING PRINCIPLES FOR USE OF ANIMALS IN ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY SCHOOLS", (shown overleaf), and

that permission to start this project was granted on:

 

Signed: ~
date (Teacher)

 

Signed:

 

(Science Department Chairman)

2. This is to certify that the above named student has been directly supervised throughout the course of the now completed study
and that no vertebrate animal has been subjected to surgery, pain, interference with normal health or lingering death.

Signed:
date (Supervising Teacher)

 

 

| I Write for free extra copies to : ' ,
The Humane Society of the United States 0 1604 K Street, N.W., Washington, D. C. 20006

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P. O. Box 3650
WASHINGTON. D. C. 20007

URGENT WARNING

 

To Humane Societies
From the Animal Welfare Institute

The American Humane Association has circulated a memorandum
to all humane organizations enclosing a leaflet entitled "Guiding
Principles for the Use of Animals by Secondary School Students and
Science Club mebers." These guidelines do ggt_oppose amateur
surgery, use of disease causing materials (including diseases which
the students themselves can catch and spread), materials that cause
cancer, dangerous radiation or other pain infliction on animals.

The newly passed California law against cruel experiments by school
children makes such activities illegal whether or not they are done
under scientific supervision as per the AHA guidelines. The laws
of the States of Illinois and Maine, both of which have withstood
attempts by the promoters of children's experiments to repeal them,
are also in direct conflict with the guidelines being distributed
by the American Humane Association.

YOUR HUMANE SOCIETY WILL BE ENCOURAGING TEACHERS AND STUDENTS
TO BREAK THE LAW in these three states and perhaps in others if
you distribute the AHA guidelines. Further, all humane societies
should support legislation similar to the California law in their
own states. The American Humane Association guidelines are also
being distributed by the National Society for Medical Research, which
has opposed all efforts to and surgery and other painful procedures
on animals by untrained youths. Don't help the apologists for cruel
experiments by high school students by distributing this anti-humane
material.

Enclosed are guidelines approved by the organizations which
have devoted serious efforts to prevent cruel treatment of animals
in science fairs, elementary and high school classrooms and childrens'
homes.

If you want more information and background material, fill out
the coupon below and mail to the Animal Welfare Institute.

0 O O O C O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O 0

Please send me further information on how we can help prevent painful
experiments on animals by untrained youths.

Name

 

Address

 

 

 

 




Nemesis
Of Animal

Torturers

 

Detroit’s Dorothy Dyce: The Laws Reflect
Make a Dog’s Life Easier

Her Batt

Dorothy Dyce relaxes at home with Susie, a mongrel she found at the Detroit Anti-Cruelty Association’s animal shelter.

By ERNEST CHAMBERLAIN
For @snmr Magazine

There are people who love dogs
and people who do not. Mrs. Dorothy
Dyce of Detroit is one who loves
them, and she makes war against
those members of the other group
whose antipathy finds an outlet in
torturing man's best friend for prof-
It.

 

They are the unscrupulous “pet
brokers" who obtain dogs from any
available s o u r c e .— includingl dog
thieves, in some cases — and se the
animals to research laboratories for
experiments. It is the way such dealers
—as well as some of the laboratories—
mistreat the dogs that makes Mrs.
Dyce fighting mad.

A LIFE Magazine article titled

 

“Your Dog is in Great Danger"
opened with a photograph of a piti-
fully emaciated pointer discovered
by Mrs. Dyce at a “trade day" for
dogs at Sulphur, Okla. and aptly
nicknamed "Lucky" b her and the
magazine. “He was a g of bones,"
Mrs. Dykes' recalls. “Terrified and
cowering, he was being sold to a
dog dealer for $2. I couldn't bear to
see him stuffed into a truck and

 

taken to a research laboratory in
such a pitiful condition. I gave the

dler $3 for the dog, put him
in the back seat of my car and
drove to Wichita Falls, Tex. He was
nearly starved. It must have been
a week since he had had food or
water.”

Lucky was lucky, winding up in
Continued

The Detroit Free Press, November 17, 1968

 




 

Continued

a home in Wichita Falls where he is
loved, and the young couple that
got him also got careful instructions
on how to keep him out of the hands
of pet thieves. But for every dog
like Lucky there are tens' of thou-
sands not so fortunate. They have
provided Mrs. D ce a mission in
‘life and several tit es to'boot: Wayne
County Humane Officer, former
vice president of the "Detroit Anti-
'Cruelty Association,- a member of
the Advisory Committee for the Hu-
mane Use of Laboratory Animals in
Michigan and a consultant to the
Animal Welfare Institute of New
York City.

In her determined war .on the
worst of the animal brokers, no one
knows where Mrs. Dyce will show
up next. Once it was Tennessee,
near" the little town of Medina,
where she had gone after receiving
more than several complaints from
citizens about the particularly shame-
ful operation of an animal broker-
age there. The dog farm was run
by a man named ROy Hargrove and
his son, William.

She found about 125 dogs without
.food or water. Some of them were
'ill nearly to the int of death.
Some were 'too wea to stand. One
was dead, left lying to decay. The
food 'and water containers were all
rusted out, overturned, empty, or
had thick mud in them. “I have
never‘ seen such horrible and unsan-
itary conditions," Mrs. Dyce Says.

She swore out warrants against the
father and son and, a year later,
both of the men .were convicted of

cruel and inhumane treatment of
the dogs. Her leg was in a cast, due
to an A accident, when she journeyed
from Detroit to Humboldt, Tenn.
for the trial, but she wouldn’t have
failed in her duty to see it through
if she’d had to crawl, she says.

Mrs. Dyce thinks children should
be taught to be kind to all living
things. A few years ago she organized
a “junior Anti-Cruelty Society” in
her neighborhood. The young mem-
bers take the society seriously. One
youngster recently went to her and
asked if he should turn in his mem-
bership card — he was worried be-
cause he had accidentally killed a
caterpillar.

 

 

Justice Jolts a Pair of Dog Profiteers
And Mrs. Dyce Wins AaotherRouad

      

1» a , . .. e ,

ls ,4? a

Tied to an interstate dealer’s three-deck” track, this dog awaits her turn on the block at a typical trade day

Animal Welfare Institute of New York City

 

“She found about 125
dogswithout food or
water. Some were too
weak to stand. One
was dead. The food
and water containers
were all rusted out,
overturned, empty,

or had thick mud in
them. ‘I have never
seen such horrible and
unsanitary conditions,’
Mrs. Dyce says.”

 

 

1..

Animal Welfare Institute‘of {New York City

 

  

  

  
 

rters in a research laboratory, and the resident’s feelings
are evident.

 

: .s

Cramped '




Dog Dealing:
Midwest’s 3rd
Largest Business

 

“One Michigan dealer
boasted that he had
keys to five different
dog pounds and could
enter any of them at
will and simply take
any dogs he wanted
to fill his orders.”

 

In 1957_ after reading a leaflet
from the Society for Animal Pro.
tective Legislation describing the
cruel and vicious methods of slaugh-
tering food animals, she volunteered
to testify at a WaShington hearing
on the Federal Humane Slaughter
Bill. Armed with firsthand knowledge,
newspaper editorials, a written en-
dorsement from the iMichigan State
Veterinary Medical Association and
grim determination, she made her
first trip to the nation's capital to
testify on behalf of humane 1e is-
lation. The bill was passed in u-
gust, 1958.

The federal law ertained only
to packing houses selling to the fed-
era government, however, and it
was clear to her that Michigan needed
its own laws covering the slaughter
houses within the state which did
not come under the federal bill.
When the State Humane Slaughter
Bill was introduced, it was strongly
opposed by two members of the Agri-
cu ture Committee, and its passage
was seriously threatened. Then Mrs.
Dyce asked the two legislators if they
would visit a slaughter house with
her. They agreed. The visit was
made on a normal operating day; it
convinced the two lawmakers and
in 1962 the bill was signed into law
by then Gov. john Swainson, who
gave Mrs. Dyce .a pen used in sign-
ing it. Michigan’s Humane Slaugh-
ter Law was among the first such
state laws in the nation.

Another fight for animals — and
Michigan’s taxpayers — that Mrs.
Dyce helped win was the 1965 abol-
ishment of the state's "bounty sys-
tem" on foxes, bobcats, and coyotes.
Most bounty hunters left their traps
unattended’for days and weeks, while
the painfully imprisoned animals
died slow deaths from starvation
and thirst. In the Spring each year
the fox holes would be dug—out, the
pups clubbed to death for the $5
bounty, and the mothers left living
so they could reproduce more pups
for the next year’s slaughter. Many
hunters brought dead coyotes in from
Wisconsin across the upper penin-
sula to collect the. bounties. In 1964
the state had paid out a $250,000
to the bounty hunters. The law for
Which Mrs. Dyce fought stopped the
slaughter cold in its tracks —— and
the outflow of tax dollars.

It was largely due to Mrs. Dyce's
efforts that Michigan became the
first state in the nation to have a
law requiring licensing and regula-
tion of dealers selling dogs and cats
to research institutions and labora-
tories. She and Dr. Robert Willson
of the City of Detroit Public Health
Service wrote the bill.

Once, Mrs. Dyce heard a dog deal-
er brag, “The dog dealing business
is the third biggest business in the
Midwest." Earlier, one of his drivers
had been arrested and convicted on
cruelty-to-animals charges; he had
jammed 49 dogs into a 1952 Chevro-
let 2-door sedan; 33 were in wired-
shut crates behind the front seat and
16 in, a crate in the trunk. Three
of the dogswere dead.

After receiving a complaint about
one Michigan dealer, Mrs. Dyce paid
him a visit. That particular dealer
boasted that he had keys to' five
different ’dog pounds and could en.

 

The Dog’s Friend Has
Her Dog in Court’

Continued
ter any of them at will and aim ly
take any dogs .he wanted to fill his
“orders." It is likely that many dogs
have been taken before. their owners
had a chance to claim them.

At Presbyterian-St. Luke’s Hospi.
tal in Chicago, she saw dogs which
had just come in from a dealer.
They were housed in small metal
cages in one room, and most of
the dogs were dirty, frightened, and
emaciated. All of them had distem-
per. At Northwestern University’s
School of Medicine, the dogs were
in the same deplorable condition.
Both of the laboratories got the ani-
mals from the Hargroves in Tennes-
see, whom Mrs. Dyce has since
brought to justice.

A Trade Day at Ripley, Miss.
involved roughly a thousand dogs,
many of them stolen, according to a
reporter for the Memphis, Tenn.,
Press-Scimitar. The article revealed
in word and picture how the dogs
were beaten, kicked, and prodded
with metal poles into the dog dealer
trucks. It was described as, ". . . a
nightmare of man’s cruelty to living,
sentient creatures . . .”

Mrs. Dyce says: “The survivors of
these Trade Day brutalities are then
whisked across state lines to dog
farms where they await delivery to
a research laboratory. Is it any won-
der they are sick, undernourished,
and frightened and not fit subjects
for scientific research?”

In testimony before the US. Sen-
ate Commerce Committee, Mrs. Dyce
pointed out that Northwestern Uni-
versity, Presbyterian-St. Luke’s, and
Washington University at St. Louis
(all Hargrove customers) were all
recipients of government grants. In
fiscal 1965, the three, institutions re-
ceived a combined total of $11,675,-
450 in tax money from the National
Institutes of Health.

“Our tax dollars pay for animal
abuse by dog dealers. They further
support the substandard care and
housing which I regret to say crust
in these institutions. It is unrealistic
to think that negligent institutions
will make improvements on a volun-

basis. Properly enforced legis-
lation has worked well in Michigan
without hampering medical research,
and it can function equally well on
a nationwide basis," she told the
committee.

It' has been a long, hard, often
lonely fight, but Dorothy Dyce_ had
her “day in court" for the animals
she loves» when she testified before
the Senate committee, and her day
of triumph when President johnson
signed a law requiring humane care
and housing of animals being used
for research, licensing and regula-
tion of animal dealers, and other
measures aimed at preventing theft
of dogs and cats for sale to labora-
tories.

 

“In the Spring each
year the fox holes
would be dug out, me
pups clubbed to death
for the $5 bounty, and
the mothers left living
so-they could produce
more pups for the next
year’s slaughter. . . The
law for which Mrs.
Dyce fought stopped
such slaughter cold in
it’s tracks—and the
outflow of tax dollars.”

 

The Detroit Free Press, November 17, 1968

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P. O. Box 3492
GRAND CENTRAL STATION
New YORK. N. Y. 10017

__

BUTTERFIELD 8-4-564-

Dear Friend,

You are cordially invited to become a member of the Animal Welfare
Institute. To give you some idea of the work which your contribution
can help us to perform I am enclosing an article about Animal welfare
Institute Laboratory.Animal Consultant, Dorothy Dyce, which appeared in
the petroit Free grass. Funds are needed to carry out this important
work fbr animals. '

Also enclosed is a listing of educational materials published and
distributed by the Animal Welfare Institute at cost price or, in certain
cases such as school teachers who will use humane educational manuals to
teach kindness to animals, the manuals are provided free. There is a
tremendous demand for these manuals, and some have had to be reprinted

repeatedly - "First Aid and Care of Small Animals", for example, is in

its ninth edition. Manuals on the proper care of laboratory animals are
provided free to scientific institutions where the animals are kept.
Finally, there are publications for the general public, such as "Animals
and Their Legal Rights" recently sent to more than 5,000 public libraries
all over the United States so that information on existing laws protecting
animals would be available readily to everyone who wants to know.

we hope that you will want to take part in the effort to prevent
cruelty and advance the welfare of animals by becoming a member of the
Animal welfare Institute.

Sincerely,
%f‘x%e

/ ’ﬁq
Christine Stevens
President

 




To: Editors and writers
From: Animal welfare Institute May 28, 1969

P.O. Box 3u92 4
Grand Central Station Telephone: 202 FE 7-541

New York, N.Y. 10017

Cruelty to animals by teenaged youths under the guise of scientific inquiry
has grown to serious proportions because money and free trips are offered as rewards.

For example, this March the Westinghouse Corporation gave $250 and an expense-
paid 5-day trip to washington to a girl who blinded house Sparrows by removing their
eyeballs, starved a number of these blind birds for six days till some of them died,
and subjected them to electric shock punishments if they were unable to find food
in her maze. Her inspiration for these activities came from the National Science
Foundation grant she received last summer enabling her to observe the blinding and
testing of sparrows at the University of Texas. She hopes to get another grant.

National Science Foundation grants come from U.S. Government funds. Every
taxpayer should have a voice in how this money is spent. Westinghouse Corporation
funds are private, but if the Corporation is not taxed on the money it pays to Science
Service, it is the taxpayer again who is subsidizing the cruelty.

Following are a few of the projects which won local science fairs and were dis-

played at the International Science Fair held May 6-9 in Fbrt Worth, Texas under the

auspices of Science Service which also runs the westinghouse competition.

A boy from Tennessee froze ten mice and 36 hamsters by pouring liquid nitrogen
over them and then tried to revive them. In child-like printing he struggled unsuc-
cessfully with the English and spelling in his large signs. For example: "Procedure.
1. Specimens were securely immotivated (sic) in freezing jar. 2. The liquid nitro-
gen was quickly poured on them. 3. Reviving consisted of electrical shock in dif—
ferent manners. h. Heat and electrified water brought about quicker recoveries.

5. Stimulants did not prevent death after recovery. Specimens lived from a few

 




2.

minutes to several hours." Under the heading ”Hypothesis” another large sign
read "Specimens may reSpond with right stimulant. 1. Electrical stimuli. 2. Chem-
ical stimuli. 3. Infared (sic) treatment.”

In short, this boy was rewarded for painfully freezing, painfully reviving and
then watching the death agony of the small captive animals pompously described under
the general heading, "The Effects of SuSpended Animation and Recovery in Higher
Mammals induced by Cnyogenical Methods.”

A bqy from Florida describes his 2—year project thus: ”The study involved the
subjection of degs and guinea pigs to anaphylactoid shock and anaphylactic shock,
respectively." The photograph of the cowering dog, fearfully turning its head away
from the person drawing blood from it was displayed at the booth. In response to a
question the youthful experimenter replied, ”I use the dogs for my serum source, and
I only do surgery on the dead dogs who don't survive the histamine shock.” He does
this at the Miami Heart Research Institute after school.

A bqy from Jamaica, Long Island, performs his brain surgery at home, and he has
been rewarded by trips to both washington, D.C. (westinghouse Science Talent Search)
and Fort Worth, Texas (International Science Fair). Commissurotomy - dividing the
brain - in mice is his Specialty and though the animals usually die in this amateur
surgeon's hands, his prize-winning project appears under the title ”Psycho Biological
Effects of Commissurotomy on Mice."

A bqy from Mississippi calls his exhibit "Artificial Heart - A New Concept” and
his extensive surgery on rabbits was shown in detail in photographs at his booth.

A Virginia youth placed rats in a vise-like instrument (see photo) and implanted
electrodes in their brains.

Last year monkey experiments described in the enclosed reprint of an article by

John Hillaby in The New Scientist involved the same type of cruelty - putting the

animal's head in a stereotaxic instrument, drilling holes in its skull and implanting

or trying to implant electrodes.

 




3.

The cruelty and stupidity of his project on delicate squirrel monkeys was
underlined by the post-mortem examination of a dying monkey diSplayed at the booth.
The report of veterinary pathologists at Michigan State University showed the
ignorant abuse and long suffering to which the animal had been subjected.

This year, Science Service was taking no chances on a similar demonstration of
the false premises on Which its promotion of cruel experiments by untrained youths

is based. A new rule for the 1969 International Science Fair prohibited display of

am live animal. But photographs and signs described even more projects inflicting '

pain, fear or death on animals than at last year's Fair. The cruelty continues to
grow while Science Service continues to defend its ill-conceived program. Even
abstracts were hard to find at the 1969 Fair, and every booth was defended with a
big bar preventing the public from walking in as is normal at exhibits. Security
guards patrolled the Fair - a curious way to advance science.

The enclosed editorial from IE9. £91 2333 M, May 10, 1969 deserves endorse-
ment throughout the nation.

The Animal Welfare Institute will provide further details from its files on
request. We hope you will wish to comment on this deliberate incitement to greed
and callous abuse of captive creatures by American youth. For your further use, a
copy of the ”Rules and Reasons" which could quickly change cruel projects to humane

and scientific ones, is enclosed.

 




FIGHT AGAINST CRUELTY

The Work of Dorothy Dyce, Anima] Neifare Institute Laboratory
Anima] Consuitant

Photo By Marybeth Vaughn

Mrs. Dyce discusses humane science teaching with schooi officials
attending science teachers' convention. Thousands of Anima] Welfare
Institute teaching manuais are ordered and distributed throughout the

nation's high schoois. Opposition to any pain infiiction on animais by

high schooi students is strongiy emphasized.

 




 

Not afraid to get into the fiithy back rooms of_a pet shop to rescue surviving birds
and animais, Mrs. Dyce's distress is cieariy expressed as she digs through rubbish
and dead animais to make sure aii 1iving ones are removed from the premises, fed

and cared for. Note other photos showing generai condition of this commerciai
estabiishment. In Mrs. Dyce's words: "The piace was a nightmare. The temperature
was 90°. The basement was so foui we couid oniy stay down there for ten or fifteen

minutes at a time. We had to come up for air. But we stayed tiii we got aii the

animais." June 25, 1970

m

" ‘ mm?

Photos By Kathy Morehead

 




Prior to enactment of the Laboratory
Animal Welfare Act, treatment of animals
by dog dealers was atrocious. Mrs. Dyce
traveled throughout the country to observe
and record, sometimes at grave danger to
herself, conditions for these animals.
Photographs obtained by Mrs. Dyce convinced
lHenry Luce to send Life_photographers and
writers to inspect dog farms and auctions
resulting in the feature article, "Concen—
tration Camps for Dogs," February 4, l966.
This is a photograph of Mrs. Dyce with ~
"Lucky," the pitiful starving dog shown
on the lead page of the Life_article. Mrs.
Dyce bought "Lucky” at an Oklahoma dog
auction for three dollars. She fed him up
and placed him in a good home. "Lucky“
through his photograph in Lif§_told the
story of cruelty in dog dealing in our
country. The Congress responded by enact-
ing the Laboratory Animal Welfare Act,
P.L. 89-544, that has stopped so much

     

' ’ *"°’7‘ ‘ - w needless suffering. More than one hundred
. Photo By Stan Wayman

dog dealers have gone out of business because they would not or could not meet the

humane standards set by the U.S. Department of Agriculture under the terms of the

Act.

 




Mrs. Dyce has fought crue1ty in
science fairs for years. ”Sanctified
Torture“ was the tit1e of an artic1e
by John Hi11aby describing some of the
terrib1e crue1ty perpetrated by young-
sters hoping to win prizes. The artic1e
featured this pathetic monkey that Mrs.

Dyce managed to obtain permission to

 

remove from the Nationa1 Science Fair
and take to a veterinarian. It had had
ho1es dri11ed in its sku11 by a high
schoo1 boy who thought he had imp1anted
e1ectrodes in its brain. A11 he had

done was to start a raging infection

under the denta1 cau1king with which

he had p1astered the monkey's sku11.

 

Mrs. Dyce found the dying creature to
be thirsty and hungry, too, having had
no care at a11. It gratefu11y ate grapes
and drank water from her hand. The boy
and his mother were furious because Mrs.
Dyce invoked Michigan 1aw to prevent
him from operating on sti11 another Photo By Kathy Morehead
1itt1e squirre1 monkey for German te1evision at the Nationa1 Science Fair.

THE ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE LABORATORY ANIMAL CONSULTANT PROGRAM NEEDS
YOUR SUPPORT. The resu1ts of Mrs. Dyce's work have had far-reaching resu1ts.
If you want to see such progress for anima1s continue, p1ease give as much as

you can.

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P.O. Box 3492, Grand Centra1 Station
New York, N.Y. 10017

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
p. 0. Box 3650
win-moron. D. c. 20001

High School Science Coordinator Devises System.to Prevent

Cruel or Hazardous Science Fair Projects

The following article by an experienced Coordinator for
Mathematics and Science was prepared at the request of the
Animal Welfare Institute in order to inform high school biology
teachers of a workable system for preventing cruel or dangerous
science projects from being undertaken by young students.

The Alexandria (Virginia) City Public Schools, Office of
Secondary Education, issued a policy statement which.reads, in
part, as follows:

"In order to provide guidelines governing experimentation
with live vertebrate animals by science students in the public
schools of Alexandria and in order to provide a statement of
policy intended to assist science teachers in instructing students
in.humanitarian goals, the Office of Secondary Education and the
teachers under its direction adopt as two leading rules the
following:

1. Animals being observed by students must always be maintained
in the maximum.possible condition of health, comfort and
well-being.

No vertebrate animal used for secondary school teaching may
be subjected to any experiment or procedure which interferes
with its normal health or causes it pain or distress.

"Naturally, the interpretation of the above rules might vary.
The rules should be applied with discretion and common sense. They
do not exclude animal experimentation nor the killing of vertebrates
to obtain specimens. Also, though the emphasis is on vertebrates,
this does not mean that humanitarian attitudes are irrelevant in
experiments involving non-vertebrates. Rather, they represent an
objective statement of a subjective state of mind which we, as
science educators, ought to possess and which we should communicate
to our students."

With this concept as a basis, the system described below was
adopted and has proved effective in raising the level of local
science fairs.

 




 

ADMINISTRATIVE CONTROL OVER SCIENCE FAIR
PROJECTS

BY

William.Dunkum, Coordinator
For Mathematics and Science
Alexandria City Public Schools,
Alexandria, Virginia

If a school is serious about its intention to
insure that science fair projects meet proper standards
of humanity, safety, and validity then the school must
set up some one to judge the projects in terms of these
standards before the regular judges get to see them.

There are two times when this preliminary judg-
ment can be made ~~ at the door when the student brings
in his project for display or before he even starts to
work on his project. Far too many schools choose the
former time and that time is far too late. To stop a
project right before it goes in the door to the science
fair is bad public relations and shows poor planning on
the part of the science fair organizers. How many science
fair organizers really know what the projects to be enter-
ed are going to be like? Is there any wonder that science
fairs exhibit unsafe and cruel projects on occasion? What
hardy soul was going to tell Johnny Jones and his doting
parents (who calmed their own qualms by telling themselVes
it was science and that justified it) that he cannot ex~
hibit the grisly photographs of the mice he had been as-
phyxiating for three months to determine if he could breed
a line of skinpbreathing mice on the assumption that the
fit will survive and not die when he put a plastic bag over
their heads? Who indeed? Judging by the number of similar—
ly obscene and inhuman projects which have won awards in
national fairs it would appear that the answer is No One.

This situation must change. School administrators
must do their job, and they must begin to plan science
fairs far enough in advance that these horrors may be
stopped in.their inception. Not only inhumane projects,
however, can and ought to be stopped before they reach

the final stage ~— the unsafe and dangerous ones too must
never be begun.




But how to do it? Simple. Have each student
fill out an "INTENT TO EXHIBIT IN SCIENCE FAIR" form
before he starts his project. Have him.submit it to
his teacher and have the teacher sign it (if the teacher
approves it) and submit it to the science department
chairman (if it is only a local school fair) or to the
science supervisor (if it is an area fair). Thus two
people will be aware of the project before it is begun
and can stop it if it should be stopped or encourage it
if it should be encouraged. The use of this preliminary
form has other advantages which are listed below:

1. Provides an estimate of the maximum number
of science fair projects which need to be planned for
in the science fair exhibit area.

2. Provides an estimate of the number of ex~
hibits in each category (this is essential in order to
plan for the proper number of judges in each area).

3. Provides an estimate of the number of stu-
dents who planned a science fair project but never
carried it through.

u. By having teachers pass out and discuss the
forms in the beginning of the year, it will mean that
students will be starting to plan their exhibits farther
in advance ~— and the earlier they start, the better they
will be when exhibit time comes around later.

(Sample Form on page A)

 




SAMPLE FORM

STATEMENT OF INTENT TO ENTER AN EXHIBIT IN SCIENCE FAIR

Student's Name

 

 

First ‘HIddle IEItIal ‘fiast
Grade Subject enrolled in

Teacher's Name School

 

 

Which category will your project be entered in? (Check one)
Astronomy ( ) Earth Science ( ) Biology ( ) Chemistry ( )
Electronics ( ) Physics ( ) Medicine ( ) Botany ( ) Zoology ( )

What will your project be about?

 

 

 

 

 

Will your project involve live animals? Yes ( ) No ( )
Will your project involve any of the following? (Check if applicable)

Radioactive substances ( ) Explosive substances ( )

High Voltages ( ) Liquid Gases ( ) Poisons ( ) Strong Acids ( )

GIVE THIS FORM TO YOUR TEACHER FOR APPROVAL

Teacher's Signature

 

(Sign only if you approve the project)

 




 

SAW "1r IHIE W Whig

..
./ ' ~ -
_ , I “1
/ ‘ ctrw‘ ,. .
. /_ . .»" _ . '
‘ .4» 4 0/!
/ A ‘ ’ "
r " -’ ’
O ‘ — I

 

- _._ ' I
.- ~ - ‘-
‘ .
‘\

Bﬂ‘Ymﬂ JJ‘ PANIESIE (B0003

 

\ /
K J

TO SAVE THE WHALES-HEPADVERTISETHEBOYCOTTOFJAPANESEGOODS

 

 

These LShirts are being offered at cost price.
AVAILABLE FROM THE ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE, PO. BOX 3650, WASHINGTON, D.C., 20007

FOR ADULTS: Navy blue with white imprint — $3.50 Sm

FOR CHILDREN Red with navy imprint - $2.75 Sm Med Lg
(6-3) (10.12; (IE-135.

“CLOSE IS 3 FOR T-SHI RTS'.
NAME
ADDRESS

 

 

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P. 0. Box 3650
’WABHINGTON, D. C. 2000?

TO: SCIENTISTS WHO WISH TO PREVENT EXTINCTION OF WHALES OF ALL
SPECIES

FROM: THE ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

THANK YOU FOR EXPRESSING YOUR DESIRE TO TAKE AN ACTIVE PART IN
SAVING THE THREATENED WHALES. THE ATTACHED SUMMARY OF THE CUR-
RENT SITUATION TOGETHER WITH A BRIEF LIST OF REFERENCES PROVIDES
BACKGROUND MATERIAL FOR USE IN WRITING OR SPEAKING TO GOVERNMENT
OFFICIALS, THE PRESS, AND COLLEAGUES WHO MAY WISH TO JOIN IN THE
CAMPAIGN FOR A TEN-YEAR-INTERNATIONAL MORATORIUM ON COMMERCIAL
WHALINGo

RECOMMENDED ACTION:

 

1. REFUSE TO PURCHASE JAPANESE OR RUSSIAN PRODUCTS. IN.REFUSING,
STATE THE REASON WHY You ARE BOYCOTTING AND INDICATE THAT AS SOON

AS THESE COUNTRIES ACCEDE To WORLD OPINION ON THE WHALING MORA-
TORIUM, YOU WILL AGAIN BE GLAD TO PURCHASE THEIR GOODS AND SERVICES.

2. WRITE TO MAJOR COMPANIES WHO PRODUCE OR DISTRIBUTE JAPANESE
AND RUSSIAN GOODS TELLING THEM WHY You ARE BOYCDTTING THESE GOODS.
URGE THEM TO USE THEIR INFLUENCE ON THE WHALING INDUSTRY OF THE
COUNTRY INVOLVED, T0 PHASE OUT WHALE KILLING.

5. WRITE TO THE AMBASSADORS OF JAPAN AND THE U.S.S.R. TELLING
THEM OF THE WIDESPREAD AND RAPIDLY GROWING DETERMINATION TC PRO-
VIDE A MORATORIUM WHILE THERE IS STILL TIME TO STUDY AND MAINTAIN
THE OCEAN ECOSYSTEM AS IT HAS DEVELOPED WITH THESE UNIQUE MAMMALS.

A. WRITE T0 OFFICIALS OF THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT EXPRESSING YOUR
APPROVAL OF MOVES MADE SO FAR TO PRESERVE WHALES AND URGING THAT
THESE BE CONTINUED, STRENGTHENED AND VIGOROUSLY PURSUEDO

THE U. 8. GOVERNMENT HAS: A) BANNED ALL IMPORTS OF WHALE PROD-
UCTS (UNDER THE ENDANGERED SPECIES ACT AND THE MARINE MAMMAL
PROTECTION ACT). 8) BY UNANIMOUS RESOLUTIONS IN THE U. 8. SENATE
AND HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES REQUESTED THE SECRETARY OF STATE TO
CALL FOR A TEN-YEAR-INTERNATIONAL MORATORIUM ON COMMERCIAL WHAL-
ING. C) PROPOSED THIS MORATORIUM SUCCESSFULLY AT THE STOCKHOLM
CONFERENCE (1972) AND AT THE 58-NATIDN GENEVA MEETING OF THE UNITED
NATIONS ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM (1973), AND FOUGHT FOR IT WITH
INCREASING BUT INCOMPLETE SUCCESS AT THE 1972 AND 1975 MEETINGS

OF THE INTERNATIONAL WHALING COMMISSION.

THE U. 8. GOVERNMENT COULD: A) INVOKE THE "PELLY AMENDMENT" TO
THE FISHERMEN'S PROTECTIVE ACT OF 1967 WHICH PROVIDES FOR AN
EMBARGO OF FISHERY PRODUCTS FROM ANY NATION WHICH ACTS COUNTER
To THE INTENT OF A TREATY FOR CONSERVATION OF MARINE RESOURCES.
8) AS SUGGESTED BY TOM KIMBALL, PRESIDENT OF THE 5 1/2-MILLION-
MEMBER NATIONAL WILDLIFE FEDERATION, IN A LETTER TO PRESIDENT

 




NIXON, THE GOVERNMENT COULD UNDERTAKE A REVIEW OF U. S. TRADE

AGREEMENTS WITH JAPAN AND RUSSIA.

"FOR EXAMPLE," KIMBALL NOTED,

"THERE IS CONSIDERABLE BARGAINING LEVERAGE TO BE GAINED FROM OUR

WHEAT TRANSACTIONS WITH THE U.S.S.R.

JAPAN."

AND OUR SOYBEAN SALES TO

ADDRESSES 2: SOME LARGE JAPANESE COMPANIES:

 

 

IX, ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES, ETC.

 

 

SONY
h7-56 - 52ND PLACE
LONG ISLAND CITY, N. Y. 11101

HITACHI
A}? MADISON AVENUE
NEW YORK, N. Y. 10022

PANASONIC
200 PARK AVENUE
NEW YORK, NO YO 1001?

MITSUBISHI
277 PARK AVENUE
NEW YORK, N. Y. 10017

QANYO ELECTRONICS
51 JOSEPH STREET
MOONAOHIE, N. J. 0707A

AUTOMOBILES

 

OATSUN

NISSAN MOTOR CORP.

560 SYLVAN AVENUE

ENGLEWOOD CLIFFS, N. J. 07652

TOYOTA

UNION BANK TOWER SUITE 1200
21515 HAWTHORNE BLVD.
TORRANCE, CA. 90505

CAMERAS

CANON
1O NEVADA DRIVE
LAKE SUCCESS, L.I., N. Y. 110u0

NIKON

NIPPON KOGAKU

625 STEWART AVENUE

GARDEN CITY, L.I., N. Y. 11550.

COSMETICS

 

SHISEIDO
5u0 MADISON AVENUE
NEW YORK, N. Y. 10022

AIR LINES

 

JAPAN AIR LINES
655 FIFTH AVENUE
NEW YORK, N. Y. 10022

WATCHES

SEIKO TIME CORP.
6&0 FIFTH AVENUE
NEW YORK, N. Y. 10019

SUMMARY OF THE CURRENT SITUATION

 

AS GEORGE SMALL SO FULLY DOCUMENTED IN HIS BOOK, "THE BLUE WHALE"
(CORNELL UNIVERSITY PRESS, 1971), WHICH WON THE NATIONAL BOOK
AWARD FOR SCIENCE, THE INTERNATIONAL WHALING COMMISSION FAILED

TO PREVENT THESE LARGEST OF ALL ANIMALS FROM BECOMING VIRTUALLY
EXTINCT. THE BLUE WHALE IS NOT BIOLOGICALLY EXTINCT, BUT THERE

 




3

IS‘A MOST SERIOUS QUESTION WHETHER THE SPECIES WILL EVER REPOPU-
LATE EVEN THOUGH IT Is ONE OF THE FIVE SPECIES OF WHALES WHICH
COUNTRIES BELONGING TO THE INTERNATIONAL WHALING COMMISSION (IWC)
ARE PLEDGED NOT TO KILL.

THE GRAPH BELOW SHOWS HOW EXPLOITATION OF ONE SPECIES AFTER
ANOTHER DESTROYED ONCE PLENTIFUL CETACEA.

 

[\“\-«O

 

 

 

 

 

NO. OF WHALES KILLED

 

 

1930
..-—J

WORLD CATCH OF BALAENOPTERA WHALES

AT THE STOCKHOLM CONFERENCE ON THE HUMAN ENVIRONMENT IN 1972, A
VOTE OF 55-0 WITH 5 ABSTENTIONS APPROVED THE U. S. PROPOSAL FOR
A TEN-YEAR-INTERNATIONAL MORATORIUM ON COMMERCIAL WHALING. BY
A 58-0 VOTE IN 1975, THE MEMBER NATIONS OP THE UNITED NATIONS
ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAM APPROVED THE MORATORIUM PROPOSAL AGAIN.
ONLY JAPAN ABSTAINED THIS YEAR. HOWEVER, AT THE INTERNATIONAL
WHALING COMMISSION MEETINGS, THE VOTES WERE: 1972, up6 WITH
ABSTENTIONS; 1973, 8-5 WITH 1 ABSTENTION. TO CARRY, A PLENARY
SESSION VOTE IN THE IWC MUST HAVE A S/h MAJORITY, so, THOUGH
MUCH PROGRESS WAS MADE, IT WAS INSUFFICIENT To BRING FULL PRO-
TECTION TO WHALES. ON OTHER LESS STRINGENT CONSERVATION VOTES,
JAPAN CONSISTENTLY OBJECTEO, AND THE U.S.S.R. IN MOST CASES
BACKEO HER UP.

NOW A MOST SERIOUS DETERIORATION OF THE SITUATION HAS DEVELOPED:
ON SEPTEMBER 19TH JAPAN INFORMED THE THIRTEEN OTHER COUNTRIES
THAT BELONG TO THE IWC THAT SHE WAS FORMALLY OBJECTING TO THREE
OF THE DECISIONS, EVEN THOUGH ALL OF THEM HAD BEEN PASSED BY S/h
MAJORITIES. THE U.S.S.R., FOLLOWING JAPAN'S LEAD, OBJECTED TO
TWO OP THEM, THOUGH BOTH HAD BEEN RECOMMENDED BY THE IWC'S SCIEN-
TIFIC COMMITTEE. THUS THE TWO MAJOR WHALING COUNTRIES, WHO ANNU-
ALLY KILL BETWEEN 85% TO 90% OF ALL WHALES TAKEN, HAVE MADE THEM-
SELVES FREE TO KILL As MANY MINKE WHALES As THEY PLEASE AND TO
DISREGARD THE SPERM WHALE QUOTAS BY GEOGRAPHIC AREA WHICH WERE

 




u

DESIGNED TO PREVENT OVERKILL OF INDIVIDUAL POPULATIONS OF WHALES
IN THE MOST EASILY ACCESSIBLE WATERS. JAPAN, BUT NOT RUSSIA,
HAS REFUSED TO ADHERE TO THE PHASE-OUT OF KILLING FIN WHALES IN
THE ANTARCTIO BY 1976. THE FIN WHALE IS THE MOST SERIOUSLY
THREATENED OF THE COMMERCIALLY EXPLOITED SPECIES AT THIS TIME.

ACTIONS ON THE MINKE WHALE QUOTA ILLUSTRATE THE FEEBLENESS OF
THE IWC. JAPAN FIRST SOUGHT A QUOTA OF 12,000, BUT AFTER DEBATE
OUT THE DEMAND TO 8,000. AFTER FAILING TO GET A FAVORABLE VOTE
FOR THIS QUOTA, SHE WAS THE SOLE COUNTRY TO VOTE AGAINST THE
QUOTA OF 5,000. BUT DESPITE THIS 15-1 VOTE, THE SOVIETS LATER
REVERSED THEMSELVES. ALTHOUGH NEITHER COUNTRY HAS ACTEO ILLE-
GALLY ACCORDING TO THE TERMS OF THE TREATY, BOTH HAVE FLOUTED
THE SPIRIT OF THE INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENT TO CONSERVE WHALES.
THEY HAVE BEEN DOING THIS FOR SOME TIME WITH IMPUNITY. BUT NOW
THERE IS A STRONG TIDE RUNNING AGAINST OUT-OF-HAND EXPLOITATION
OF THREATENED SPECIES.

FURTHERMORE, THE SMALL AMOUNT OF SCIENTIFIC WORK SO FAR DONE
WITH LIVING WHALES INDICATES THAT THERE IS MUCH MORE TO BE
LEARNED FROM THESE ENORMOUS MAMMALS, SOME SPECIES OF WHICH PRO-
DUCE DELICATE, HIGH-PITCHED TRILLS AND CASCADES OF SOUND, SO
BEAUTIFUL THAT THEY HAVE INSPIRED SYMPHONIC MUSIC. "THE SONGS
OF THE HUMPBACK WHALE," RECORDED BY DR. ROGER PAYNE OF ROCKE-
FELLER UNIVERSITY, BECAME SO POPULAR THAT CAPITOL RECORDS PUT
IT OUT FOR COMMERCIAL SALE.

A VERITABLE BATTLE ARRAY OF TECHNOLOGICAL DEVICES ARE NOW USED
TO LOCATE, PURSUE, AND KILL WHALES, INCLUDING RADAR AND ASDIC,
HELICOPTERS AND FIXED-WING AIRCRAFT, AND FACTORY SHIPS, EACH
SURROUNOEO WITH A SMALL FLEET OF HIGH-POWERED CATCHER BOATS
EQUIPPED WITH EXPLOSIVE HARPOONS WHICH DETONATE INSIDE THE
WHALE, FREQUENTLY IN ITS INTESTINES AS THE GUNNER HITS THE
WHALE'S BACK, THE MOST VISIBLE PART OF THE ANIMAL AS IT BENDS
BEFORE SOUNDING. THE LONG-DRAWN—OUT SUFFERING OF THE WHALES
THAT ARE BOMBED IN A NON-VITAL SPOT WAS CALLOUSLY DISREGARDED
BY THE WHALING INDUSTRY WHEN EFFORTS TO DEVISE A METHOD OF REN-
DERING THE WHALE UNCONSCIOUS WERE PROMOTED BY THE UNIVERSITIES
FEDERATION FOR ANIMAL WELFARE IN THE 1950's AND 60's.

REFERENCES FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION:

CAN LEVIATHAN LONG ENDURE 80 WIDE A CHASE? BY SCOTT MCVAY (IN
JANUARY, 1971 ISSUE OF NATURAL HISTORY).

 

DOES THE WHALE'S MAGNITUDE DIMINISH? - WILL HE PERISH? BY SCOTT
MOVAY (IN FEBRUARY, T071 ISSUE OF BULLETIN 25 THE ATOMIC
SCIENTISTS). ———————_

 

 

HOME lg THE SEA: FOR WHALES BY SARAH R. RIEDMAN AND ELTON T.
GUSTAFSON TABELARD-SCHUMAN LTD., NEW YORK, 1971).

 

 

 




LORD OF THE FISH av FAITH MCNULTY (A PROFILE IN THE AUGUST 6,
1§75 lSSUE OF THE NEw YORKER MAGAZINE WHICH WILL BE OUT IN
BOOK FORM SPRING, T§7h .

SONGS 95 HUMPBACK WHALES BY ROGER S. PAYNE ANO SCOTT MCVAY (IN
'3 AUGUST 1971 ISSUE OF SCIENCE).

 

THE BLUE WHALE BY GEORGE SMALL (CORNELL UNIVERSITY PRESS, 1971).

THE YEAR 95 THE WHALE BY VICTOR B. SCHEFFER; ILLUSTRATED BY
EEONARO EVERETT FISHER (CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS, NEw YORK,

1969).

Please send me additional copies of this letter for distribution
to colleagues.

 

Enclosed is a contribution of $, to help meet expenses of the campaign
to save the whales. (All contributions are deductible in computing income tax.)

NAME
AWWESS

 

 

 




VOLUME 2 NUMBER 5

 

5¢—per copy -

50¢ per year (10 issues)

The

Animal-Care Com
suggests student

The time has arrived for the
annual Science Fair and the
question faces us, we want to
enter a project involving living
animals “What kind of a study
should be done? ”

The Animal Care Com-
mittee of the Youth Science
Foundation has established
specific guidelines to emphasize
and provide the necessary direc-
tion on what students shOuld be
doing at the pre-university level.

These guidelines state that
no vertebrate animal experiment
should be undertaken which
interferes with the normal health
of the animal or_ causes the
animal pain or distress. Verte-
brate animals include the
common laboratory species,
mice, rats, rabbits, the guinea
pigs, hamsters, and gerbils, as
well as chickens, frogs, turtles,
and even fish.

Second Class Mail ._
Registration No. 2708

Published by Science and Engineering Clubs of Canada,
l5l Slater Street, Suite 302, Ottawa, Canada, Kl? 5H3

cience Fair and the
Experimental Animal . . .

Youth Science Foundation

mittee
projects

The rules this year empha—
size that no surgery may be per-
formed on living vertebrates. In
pite of our rules last year we
had a heart transplant on living
nimals as a project in one
Science Fair. This project did

ome under the scrutiny of a
Youth Science Foundation

gional Animal Care Com-

Why shouldn’t we allow
heart transplants? First of all
he student, at the pre-university

vel, is not an expert on heart
function nor an expert heart
on. The research worker
working in a laboratory must be
an expert in both areas as well as
qualified in many aspects of
basic physiology and pathology.

A second matter is why
d we kill animals to demon-
something we know can
one or has been done. We all

realize that another heart trans-
plant at the pre-university level
is not going to add anything to
the fundamental problem of
what is involved in rejection.
Even the medical scientists
emphasize the need to solve this
before continuing heart trans-
plantation as a regular thera-
peutic measure.

For similar reasons, treat-
ments such as electric, heat or
cold shocks, exercise until ex-
haustion, deprivation of food for
longer than 24 hours, depriva-
tion of water, the substitution of
water with alcohol or drugs,
nutritionally deficient diets,
toxicity tests, injection of sub-
stances causing cancerous
growths, injection or feeding of

drugs causing birth defects,
anaesthetic agents, ionizing
radiation, organisms capable of
causing disease in humans or.
animals, studies involving any of

these should not be carried out at
the pre-university level on verte-
brate animals.The scientist in a
research laboratory recognizes
that the humane care and use of
all animal life is the concern of
any ethical and conscientious
society and that research in-
volving animals must benefit all
forms of life. Therefore, un-
necessary use of animals must be
avoided.

There are many projects
involving animals that can be
carried out and provide a
learning as well as an interesting
experience. The Youth Science
Foundation has prepared a list
of Sources of Information on
Animal Care and Experimenta-
tion for the pre-university level
and proposed experimental
areas. The Youth Science Foun-
dation maintains a scientist
resource list which consists of
names of over 400 scientists of
all disciplines willing to advise

JANUARY, 1912

Dr. H.C. Rowsell, Chairman of
the Youth Science Foundation’s
Animal-Care Committee.

 




 

and assist students in their
Science Fair projects.

The use of lower orders of
life such as bacteria, fungi,
protozoa and insects are 'en-
couraged as experimental sub-
jects for they are a source of
much basic biological informa-
tion. This basic knowledge is a
pre-requisite for. an under-
standing of the more complex
systems and functions in the
normal vertebrate animal. The
project undertaken must be
within the comprehension and
capabilities of the student doing
the study.

In most areas across Canada
a Regional Animal Care Com-
mittee has been appointed to
review projects involving living
animals for Youth Science Fairs.
These committees can and will
give guidance to the student
wishing to use animals.

This year all approved
projects will be given an affidavit
of approval by the Animal Care
Committee. This affidavit must
be displayed, failure to do so
will deny a student access to
participation in any Science Fair
affiliated with the Youth
Science Foundation.

In Ontario the Veterinary
Service Branch of the Ontario
Department of Agriculture will
inspect all Youth Science Fairs
under the Animals for Research
Act. Animal projects not com-
plying within Youth Science
Guidelines may result in un-
fortunate consequences for the
participant and the Science Fair.

Remember the Youth
Science Foundation Animal Care
Committee and the Canadian

Council on Animal Care have,

resources available to help you
in your science project

Write to us: ——

Animal Care Committee,
YOuth Science Foundation,
151 Slater St.,

OttaWa, Ontario

KlP 5H3 "

YOUTH SCIENCE FOUNDATION
GUIDING PRINCIPLES FOR

ANIMAL EXPERIMENTATION AT
THE FEE-UNIVERSITY LEVEL *

*adopted from the Guiding Principles prepared by the Canadian

Council on Animal Care.

Biological experimentation
involving animals is essential for
an understanding of living pro-
cesses. Such studies should lead
to a respect for all living things.
Capable students, anxious to
pursue a career in the biological
sciences must receive the neces-
sary encouragement and direc-
tion. All aspects of the project
must be within the comprehen-
sions and capabilities of the stu-
dent undertaking the study.

Lower orders of life should
be used whenever possible. Such
lower orders as bacteria, fungi,
protozoa and insects can reveal
much basic biological informa-
tion, therefore, it is preferable to
use these forms for experiment-
ation at the pre-university level.

No vertebrate animal experi-
ment should be undertaken
which interferes with the normal
health .of the animal or causes
the‘ animal pain or distress.

It is emphasized that no sur-
gery may be performed on living
vertebrates.

Projects involving such highly
intelligent and sensitive mam-
mals as monkeys, cats and dogs
may only include observations

, of normal behaviour.

All experiments must be
carried out under the Supervision
of a qualified adult (biology
teacher). It shallbe the responsi-
bility of the qualified adult to
ensure that the student has the
necessary comprehension for the
study to be undertaken. If neces-
sary, specifically qualified ex-
perts in the field should be con-

' sulted.

All experimental animals used
in teaching programs must be
properly cared for. Animal
quarters should be made com-
fortable by provisions for sanita-
tion, protection from the ele-
ments and space for exercise.
The living quarters should have
easily cleaned surfaces, good
ventilation and lighting, well
regulated temperatures and cages
of sufficient size to prevent over-
crowding. Experimental studies
with animals should not take
place in the home, but should be
carried out in a suitable area in
the School.

Food should be palatable, of
sufficient quantity and balance
to maintain normal nutrition.
Clean drinking water should be
available at all times. Containers
for food and water should be of
a type designed specifically for
that purpose.

Colonies and quarters should
be supervised by a competent
biologist experienced in animal
care. The students and other
animal care staff should be train-
ed and required to treat animals
kindly and provide them with
the necessary comforts.

Information on the care,
housing and procedures for in-
dividual species may be obtained
from “The Care of Experimental
Animals, A Guide for Canada”,
available from (the Canadian
Council on Animal Care, 151

Slater- ' ' Street; Ottawa, Ontario,
'KlP 5H3.

The use of animals must com-
ply with existing local, provin-
cial or federal regulations.

 




IH/IS PLAYFUL GIANT wouldnt be easy to house train, but Nacho
the whale made history when he sought a friend and found it in
John» Koehler, captain of a whale-watching ship out of San- Diego.

--Siar ohoto In Gcoroe Brvam

The 30-foot, 7-1011 gray whale used Koehler's dinghy as a toy and
allowed himself (to be potter! and scratched. Naturalists are baffled by
the behavior of the affable gray whale off the Mexican coast.

WHALE OF A FRIEND

An ocean giant and man play together in a historic happening

By GEORGE BRYANT
Star associate travel editor

s‘Aiv IGNACI-O LAGOON, Mexico — The first
friendly encounter between whale and human

ever recorded took place this week. A‘

yen-11g, 30-foot seven- ton gray whale dubbed
Nacho made history by seeking out the com-
panrof man, using a rubber dinghy as a play-
ﬂing and allowing himself to be petted and
scratched.

Never before in the saga ofocean research,
naturalists believe, has a wild whale deliber-
ately come seeking human companionship and
Whale experts are baffled by his behavim.

He’ll grow to 45 feet

The young whale —— who will grow to a
length of 45 to 50 feet and an estimated weight
of ‘30, to 35 tons—appeared beside our whale-
watéhing ship, Salado 85, late Monday after-
noon-and- stayed with us for the next 24 hours.

l'ihe encounter took place in this lagoon on

the west coast of Mexico’s Baja California
Peninsula where thousands of gray whales

spend the winter after swimming 5.030 miles
from their summer range in the Arctic.

The Salado. berthed in San Diego, brings
people down here on six-day whale viewing ex-
peditions but no one aboard had ever seen any-
thing like this.

Not only did Nacho long for company, he
was so persistent at one point that the ship had
to move to allow passengers togo off in the
rubber dinghies to watch other whales. ,

Estimated to be 2 years old and to weigh
nearly as much as two full grown elephants, he
played like a boisterous youngster, rolling and

splashing and diving, nudging and butting the
raft and obvibusly enjoying the human atten-
tion.

At frequent intervals he would suspend
himself 1n 3 vertical position and slide his giant.
head from the water to see what his audience
was doing and to be scratched and petted.

At no time did he make any aggressive

move. In fact, his every action was surprisingly

gentle, moving his gigantic body only inches at
a time when being handled by humans.

He appeared beside the ship in the after.
noon while the three dinghies were away from

the ship and played about the hull for an hour,
once seizing the anchor rope in his mouth and
starting to tow it away.

Then the dinghies returned and he went off
to meet them. .

He followed the rubber craft back to the
ship and then, apparently enchanted by the tex-
ture of the rafts, began nuzzling and playing
around one that had been trailed from the
stern.

Bounced it on his nose

He pushed it and rubbed it, bounced it on.
his nose. lifted it on his back, dove beneath it
and generally acted like a mammoth pup with
a new toy.

Periodically he would slide his great head
from the sea to allow a jet of water from the
stern of the Salado to play on his face cr let the
ship’s 33 passengers stroke h i s nose and
scratch his cheeks.

The evening performance went on until fl

 




An ocean giant and man make history

Continued from page 1
pm. when the dinghies
were taken out of the water
in the hope everyone could

get some sleep. And it work-

ed. Alter making a couple
ofcircuits of the ship and
diving beneath it to make
sure his toy. was gone, he
disappeared.

liut he couldn’t have gone
far, because at 5.55 am. he
was back looking for his
rubber playmate and his
new friends. '

Back into the water went
the dinghy and for another
three hours he repeated his
act. leen the presence of
another large boat. which
had been radioed to Come
and watch the unique show,
didn’t disturb him for more
than the few minutes it took
him to swim over and inves-
igate it.

 

At one point the skipper

of the Salado. John Koehler,
went into the raft to repair
a line broken by the playful
toss of the whale and Nacho
(the Spanish diminutive for
the name ofthe lagoon) slid
the forward part of his head
into the air beside the craft
— towering above both it
and John -— in an obvious
attempt to see what had
changed the weight of his
plaything.

'l‘his projection of the
head vertically above the
water by whales is known
as spy hopping and there
has been argument about its
purpose.

Some cetologists (whale
experts) maintain it is done
to assist digestion while
others say that it is done to
bring the eyes, which are
well back on th e head,
above the water.

 

 

 

Well, there was no doubt
about what

into the dinghy. And having
sat’sfied his curiosity, he
began to play again with
the craft and John, lifting
both in the air and obvious-
ly enjoying he whole thing.

But with all his weight
and power he never once
turned the raft over.

At 9 am. the engines
were started momentarily
and Nacho swam away, giv-
ing the captain a chance to
move the ship farther down
the lagoon so that he could
put some whale watchers
out in the skiffs without
having them visited by
seven tons of affection.

It worked for the morning
but on an afternoon trip he
sudden-1y appeared again,
sliding under his favorite

Nacho w a s ;
doing. He .was taking a look i

l

 

dinghy and lifting it an inch
or so.

The crewman in charge of
the rubber boat, Mary Stein,
headed back to the Salado
with Nacho in tow. Once
there he broke off to play
around the big ship and she
took th e opportunity to
speed away.

But that wasn’t the end of
this unique encounter be-
tween m a n a n d whale.
Later that afternoon he was
spotted playing with anoth-
er young whale and, without
even getting close, Mary
sped away, happy in the
knowledge he had found a
companion.

However, as the dinghy
roared o ff through t h e
choppy sea he appeared
alongside. gliding smoothly
at their speed. For minutes
he held the course. as if in
farewell, then disappeared.

 

Naturalists Fay Wolfson
and Richard Phillips aboard
the Salado and other ex-
perts aboard other‘ craft,

say there is no record of
any free whale ever acting
in this manner.

Normally, gray whales
are not aggressive unless
you get between a' mother
and her calf, but they are
shy —— with reason —- and
certainly don’t seek human
company.

Why Nacho did' is a mys-
tery. B ut, he gave the
scientists aboard an unpa-
ralleled opportunity to ob-
serve a gray whale at close
quarters in his natural envi-
ronment ,_ something no
one has ever been able to do
before.

And he gave the grateful
passengers aboard the Sala-
do the thrill of a lifetime.

7-ton playmate wants only
man’s friendship

By GEORGE BRYANT
Star associate travel edltor

SAN IGNACIO LAGOON, Mexico —-

 

 

To sit in a frail rubber dinghy and pat
th e barnacle-encrusted head of a
seven-ton untamed youngwhale is an
experience comprising equal parts of
sheer terror and wild delight.

There’s the 6-foot gash of the mouth
and, as he slides beneath the waves
and rolls, there’s the 10-foot spread of
his belly and now, poised on high.
blocking the sky, the 8-foot width of his
tail flukes, powerful enough to drive a
steam engine through a brick wall.

You are a passenger on a whale-
watching cruise in a lagoon on the west
coast of Mexico's Baja California
Peninsula w are. thousands oi gray
WilﬁiffS are spending the winter

And one of them — nicknamed
Nacho by the passengers and crew of
the Salado — has chosen a sunny day
early this week to do what no other
free and untamed whale is known to
have done before: Seek out and thor-
oughly enjoy the companionship of
human beings.

Right there beside you disappearing
in the cloudy depths is size enough and
strength enough to squash you like a
ﬂy —— and he has no controls and no
training.

Nobody has apparently ever been
this close to a wild. free and uninjured
young whale before and he’s acting as
no whale ever acted before. Everything
he does is impredictable.

And still you,trust him. All hehas
exhibited is friendship and a desire for
affection. And he moves the massive
muscles of his body like a ballet. star.
You have the feeling he could part
your hair with his tail flakes and you’d
never feel a touch on your scalp.

As you sit there he rolls over again
like a playful pup and then slides down.
again into the clouded waters, slowly.
gently. delicately, and you again mar.-
vel at the grace and absolute control of
this friendly giant.

WITH .
whale, a
ship out




\\~ \

’ i \
a“ _

  
   

-—star photo by Georoo Bryant

WITH 1' ;1 7 3

whale 31033115111] 0le IlIS NOSL, Nacho, a two-year-old gray he became the first whale to seek human companionship, allowing

ship 0,“ of SS 1:31) ay 11 Side to people aboard a whale-watching people to pet him and scratch him. Experts say they are baffled by
an logo. The 30-foot, 7-ton Nacho made history when the young whale’s friendly manner. That 6-foot gash is his mouth.

Sheer size
is astounding

And you marvel, too, at the sheer
size of this youngster. Thirty feet does-
n’t sound much when you say it. But
when you see it beside you — five
times the width of your large raft,
more than a third the llength of the big
strip n— it seems incredible. Standing on
his tail this playful youngster would
tower three storeys and dominate the
landscape.

But he is a child, full of energy.
ready for adventure, and most intri-
gued by you and your artifacts; And
you wonder why’. How does he differ
from his fellows who, decimated by
Whalers, only tolerate your presence?
Why is he the first whale known to ac-
tively seek out the friendship of man?

 




 

 

Plays with

anchor line

Earlier you had stood on the fore-
deck of the ship and watched him seize
the three-inch anchor line in his mouth
and play with it as a dog would play
with a rope.

Some dog, some rope.

When it began to run out nobody, but
nobody, tried to 'hold it. But when it ap-
peared he might take it all and then
the ship, they decided to put on the
winch. That, too, might have failedif
he had wanted to force the issue. But
fortunately he didn’t. 1Instead he gave a
few tugs. which swung the ship’s bow
like- a weathervane. then let go and
came back to play under the craft.

Later that night. he spent hem
rompingabout with the rubber dinghy;
receiving admiration and petting and
obviously'loving every minute of it.

When he rolled, his huge eye would
inspect the gallery lining the rail like
an actor seeking applause. And then
he’d flip his flukes or roll under the
dinghy and come up for another look.

You had the feeling he knew exactly
what he‘ was doing.

The big question concerns the future,
There are still three trips to the lagoon
- to be made by the Salado this year and
more. coming up next year. And some
other ships do visit the whale watching

grounds here. Will he continue to come-

.calling?‘And, since whales can com-
municate and learn from others, will
he bring his pals?

Could this be the start of a very com-
panionable relationship between man
and whale? Or will he forget us on his
long trip to the Arctic this spring? Or,

worse, meet the wrong people and die-

because he trusted man.

But whatever happens for good or ill,
no one who was on this trip will ever
forget Nacho -— the first whale to make
a friend of man.

    

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

There are no answers. You can only
wonder —- and feel a tremendous
sense of gratitude that you were here
when it happened.

And then he nuzzles the raft again
and you reach down to scratch his
nose, too intrigued and awed by the ex-
perience to be frightened, too caught
up in one of life’s great moments to
care.

His skin is soft and smooth, like w'et
suede, even where white circles indiv
cate barnacles have once have hold:
and you can feel an irresistable thrust
as he moves slowly under your hand
with a power nothing can stay. Cer-'
tainly nothing you’re capable of doing.

Then he slides beneath the waves for
the last time and is gone and the great
adventure is over. But not forgotten.
Not by you or anyone of the 32 other
passengers or seven crewmen aboard
the Salado 85.

 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
  

Reprinted by permission
from The Toronto Star,
February 28, 1976.

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P. 0. Box 3650

WASIIINCE'I‘ON. D. (T. 2(')007




