"f 1
. 7:134}; h-
... w?»

“What we sow in the home and the school, I
we reap in the nation.” i
“0 science! What crimes are committed in

thy name.”

’/

”THE ANjEsTHETIc DELUSION. , 63;)

From The Z00philist, London, May, 1892.

Several facts having important bearings on. some of the contro—
versies concerning vivisection may be gleaned from a series of articles
which appeared in the Archives Generales dc illedzcz‘ne for last Decem-
ber, January, and February. They are by Dr. A. Castex, and are
entitled “Etude Olin/[qua ct Erpcrimentale SW 26 Jllassage.” The
object was to exhibit the uses of massage in cases of bruises, dislocations,
etc, and for this purpose Dr. Castex ﬁrst produced the injuries on dogs,
and then tried his method of cure. The following are extracts from
his own reports :—

“ Thanks to the obliging Dr. Ch. itichet, I made in his laboratory
last summer various experiments on dogs. I chose that animal because
by reason of its size it is (among those used in laboratm'ies) the one
which most resembles man.”

A little further on he says :—

“ I renounced in my last experiments the chloral anaesthetic which
I used in the ﬁrst. It has the advantage of rendering the necessarily
brutal blows less painful, but the animal no longer indicates by his
means and efforts to escape the degree of traumatism. . . . . For
these reasons I relinquished anaesthetics. We know also the generosity
of the character of the dog, who will lick the hand which on the same
morning has been exercised in blows with a heavy mallet on his body. ”

Thus it would appear that the generosity of the character of the
dog actually afforded Dr. Castex an additional reason for dispensing
with anaesthetics when he meant to torture him ! He had before stated
that he had kept some dogs under observation for six months, and
then “sacriﬁced” them to observe their muscles under the microscope.
“Here is how I generally proceed: I made the contusions with a

 




 

heavy wooden mallet or with a stoneware jar. My arm was dropped
its entire height as many as thirty-ﬁve times on each side in a manner
to produce intense and equal effects” (p. 71).

Dr. Castex then gives the formula commonly used for anaesthetics
in Dr. Richet’s laboratory, which, it will be seen, consists of narcotics,
not true anaasthetics: “100 grs. chloral hydrate, 0.50 chlorhydrate of

7

morphine, and 1 litre distilled water.’ The inefﬁcacy of this injection
(when he did use it) is exhibited by the observations of intense suf—
fering which run through the records of every experiment.

1st experiment—large watch-dog. “Extended on the vivisecting
table on its stomach—the four limbs and head fastened, but not too
tightly. . . . . With a large empty stone bottle I strike a dozen
violent blows on the thighs. The animal, by its cries, more and
more violent, indicates that the bruise is great, and vividly felt” (p. 9).
“2d experiment—large hound. The animal is ﬁxed like the former.
Placing myself at a certain height, that my mallet may strike with
greater force on the part to be experimented upon, I give with all the
strength of my right arm twelve successive blows with a great wooden
mallet, some on the deltoid, some 01.1 the shoulder, some at the back,
some in front. As in the ﬁrst case, this dog indicates by his cries that
the bruises are very painfully felt, after which he falls into a sort of sleep,
broken by moans, for ten minutes. . after this again he awakes agitated,
and seems to suffer much more than the ﬁrst dog.” 3d experiment——
large female dog. “With one of the large stone bottles we make
violent contusions on the sides of the hips. Thirty-seven times my
arm falls with all its force”. . . . “The animal indicates by its cries
and movements that the contusion affects it painfully” (p. 12). Ex—
periment 4. After fifteen blows with a stone bottle “the animal
screams, and is taken with a ﬁt of trembling” (p. 15). Experiment 5—
large hound. Anaesthesia injected into abdominal cavity. “As soon
as the animal is half asleep ((1. moitie endormi), I began to twist its
limbs . . . . in the way which seems to me most suitable to sprain the
articulation, and I push the movement to the degree when I feel that
fracture is imminent. The animal indicates by its cries that it feels
intense pain (douleur intense). I prolong the movement for three
minutes for each articulation” (p. 16). 6th experiment, July 18, 1890—-
a large watch dog. “I try at ﬁrst ineffectively to dislocate the shoulder.




Our ﬁumb Brothers.

'n g the right

 
    
   
  
 
  

See a countless multitude about us,
Claiming sympathy—our humble kin;
Sadly have they learned to fear and doubt us,
Driven from our side by human sin.
Yet, though dumb, their hearts to ours are _
Speaking, :
Help and kindness from us ever seeking,—
Kindness hard to win!

imal is worse,
re interesting
——large bitch.
that they had
d on the vivi-

Inarticulate voices, groans of anguish, lders, doing it
Patient sighs, ’neath burdens hard to bear;
From lone places where dumb victims languish

Plaintive moans are ﬂoating on the air!
Soft eyes, seeking ours with wistful pleading;
Can we turn away with hearts unheeding
That unuttered prayer!

uffer much, is
r. It struggles
ows that on the
tuberosity, and

Innocent of wrong, our own transgressing 100d and serum.

Lays on them a heavy load of pain ”
. -. ‘. ‘ ' ‘. ’ 1 ﬂowof lood
Sharing all the misery and oppress1on O b

Man has wrought beneath his iron reign. 06d 011 the table

Touch all hearts, 0 Thou Divine Compassion,
T111 they burn with generous love and passion
To remove the stain.

he animal utters
Ltes, with his two
behind his back”
ary Archives), we
of the muscles and

  
   
     

 

They and we are in our Father’s keeping,
Whose compassion elf-zips both great and
small;

Not one wrong eludes that Eye unsleeping,
Not one humblest life unseen shall fall.
None can serve Him with a heart unheeding

His dumb creatures’ inarticulate pleading,
For He loveth all. 1,3,

f experiments.
that the so—called
Ch. Richet (where

I

ave been performed)

Character Of a country' it they leave the victims to exhibit
All history tells us that the character of aScconchy, that an eminent Fiench
country may be determined by the manner in
which the laws of kindness are enforced, and Wenty or thirty blows with a mallet
that among nations where the pastimes of the}l Of his arm” on the limbs of un-
peopl‘.i2 have been thetorture of animals, thee_ and that after these exploits he
seeds of demoralizatlon and decay were soon ’
so N11. As has been very justly remarked, those
who habituate themselves to the practice of eton.”
acts of cruelty in time become so hardened as
to have a disregard of humor, comfort and even
of human life. i

conveniently testing his favorite

slocate their bones in such fashion

 

 

 

Reprinted by American Anti-Vivisection Society, 118 S. 17th St, Phila, Pa.

 




    
      
   
    
  
  
  
  
  
   
     
   
  
 
   
  
 
 
   
    
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
   

 
 

“He who is not actively
(Ruskin).

kind is cruel.”
heavy wooden mall

its entire height as

o . I n ‘ n
to produce mtense a Her Most Gracious Majesty Queen Vletoii .

Dr. Castex then Patron of the Royal Society for the 1)mvml..tli](,il:.

in Dr. Richet’s labo of Cruelty to Animals, made thlS. mcmoL.h .1-
and beautiful speech, to the Seeiety, on .

- . Jubilee Festival: , , ,

morphme, and 1 lltre “It Ofives me great pleasure to receive 3 mm
a . J ,

(when he did use it) loyal and dutiful address of congratulatum ( u

fering Which run thro the completion of the Fifticth year of in) 1« 1,11...

“Amongst other marks of the spicml 0.

st my subjects, I notice in
will of

not true anaesthetics

1st experiment—1 a
enlightenment among

table on its stomach ‘ particular, with real pleasure, the gro
tightly. . - - - With more humane feelings towards the IUWU'.’
violent blows on the r:,.nimais; no civilisation is complete “1110119004
not include the dumb and defenceless 0f (.ml‘s

JJ , 7 greatures within the sphere of charity and
2d experiment—larg mercy.
Placing myself at a ce “The labours. of your Society have done
greater force on the par much to promote this moral progress; and f m
the sake alike of human nature and of the
happiness of the animal creation by which W4.
mallet, some on the 0101 are surrounded, I trust that you will porsevui .
some in front. AS in ‘31? in your noble aims in which you will continue
to have my warm and entire sympathy." .J

more violent, indicates

strength of my right ar.

the bruises are very paini
broken by means, for ten ;
and seems to suffer mucl w” w...” t, '3:
large female dog. “ With one of t 75.;

violent contusions on the sides of th ‘ JJJ
arm falls with all its force”. . . . “J .J
and movements that the contusion a J

periment 4. After ﬁfteen blows wig

screams, and is taken with a ﬁt of treml

large hound. Anaesthesia injected in

as the animal is half asleep (at moitii

limbs . . . . in the way which seems

articulation, and I push the moveme

fracture is imminent. The animal i1

intense pain (doulear intense). I prolong the movement for H”, ,.
minutes for each articulation” (p. 16). 6ch experiment, July 18, No»

a large watch dog. “I try at ﬁrst ineffectively to dislocate the slmul'lvl'.

-.\
ted by




\é

 

I only succeed in. dislocating the elbow and in fracturing the right
Carpus by torsion.” (Four days afterward.) “The animal is worse,
has diarrhoea, the eyes are glazed.” . . . . “ It is the more interesting
to see the animal use his forepaw,” etc. Experiment 7—large bitch.
“IVe proceed this time without anaesthetics, thinking that they had
nulliﬁed previous experiments. The animal is fastened on the vivi-
secting table. I dislocate successively both her shoulders, doing it
with difﬁculty ..... The animal, which appears to suffer much, is
kept in a condition of dislocation for about half-an-hour. It struggles
violently in spite of its bonds. . . . The autopsy shows that on the
left shoulder there had been a tearing out of the small tuberosity, and
of all the adjoining skeleton, with abundant ﬁowof blood and serum.
On the right shoulder there was only a tearing, and no ﬂow of blood”
(p. 21). Experiment 8—poodle dog. . . . “Replaced on the table
Without chloral; I dislocate his two shoulders. The animal utters
screams of suffering; I hold him for twenty minutes, with his two
shoulders dislocated and the elbows tied together behind his back”
(p. 22). In a further part of the same study (February Archives), we
are given pictures of the microscopic appearances of the muscles and
nerves of the animals which had been the subjects of experiments.

From the above we learn two things: First, that the so-called
anaesthetics habitually used in the laboratory of Oh. Bichet (where
some of the most horrible experiments on record have been performed)
are mere narcotics, so ineffective that they leave the victims to exhibit
every token of extreme suffering. Secondly, that an eminent French
surgeon, for the purpose of more conveniently testing his favorite
nostrum of massage, has delivered twenty or thirty blows with a mallet
or stone bottle “ with all the strength of his arm” on the limbs of un-
happy dogs tied on a vivisecting table; and that after these exploits he
proceeds to Sprain their limbs and dislocate their bones in such fashion
as to “tear out all the adjoining skeleton.”

 

Reprinted by American Anti-Vivisection Society, 118 S. 17th St., Phila, Pa.

 




yr

'r

4 i
1..
, u.
2 .I

. ,

w. .3
3‘

mm

E;-
I

L

 

 




