THE ENTHUSIASM 0F HUMANITY
AS EXHEBETED BY MEDECAL SCIENCE.

 

(Reprinted from the ABOLITIONIST, October, 1900.)

 

[THE following is an abstract and translation of a pamphlet
entitled, Ktnderspttats-Process (Suit against a Children’s
Hospital). Published by P. Stellbogen. Press of Imperial
Court Theatre, Vienna, 1900. It exhibits in a very forcible
manner the sincerity of the plea commonly urged by vivisectors,
in defence of their cruelty to animals,—namely, that the
intense sympathy they feel with human suffering drives them
to torture dogs, cats, and horses, in the hope of ﬁnding
remedies for the diseases of men, women and children. It
also shows to what the boasted value of the diphtheria anti-
toxin really amounts, and how far it may be truly counted as.
a “Triumph of Vivisection ” :——]

In March of this year, 1900, Herr Stellbogen, of
Vienna, was tried before Dr. Feigl and Dr. Gremperle
in the Law Courts of Vienna for libel against
Dr. Heim, Director of the Children’s Hospital of
S. Joseph’s, and Dr. Melzer, senior assistant doctor at
the same. The libellous pamphlet was one published
at Herr Stellbogen’s own cost and was entitled, “ A.
Sacriﬁce for Science.” It contained the pathetic story
of his children during their stay at the S. Joseph’s.
Hospital. He pleaded “Not Guilty” at the bar, but
in spite of much evidence, was convicted and heavily
ﬁned. A noteworthy and important fact in this trial
was that nearly every reference to the fatal and
disastrous results of the use of the diphtheria serum.
was evaded by the doctors or slurred over. Once,
indeed, Herr Dr. Heim declared the after results of
the serum were not harmful; but no effort was made
by any present to ask for an explanation of the mass
of evidence that clearly showed that it was so. For
those of our readers who are unable to obtain the
original account for themselves, we give, as briefly as.
we may, Herr Stellbogen’s story and such of the
evidence as seems most important.

“ On December 26th, 1898, Herr Stellbogen, who is
a proof-corrector, living in the Scho'nbrunner Strasse,
22, in Vienna, noticed that his son of four years old was,

 




 

2

sickening with cold and sore throat. Being a believer
in the Nature-cure, he resorted to hot baths; which
relieved the child. Unfortunately, (as it proved in the
light of after events,) a friend advised him to call in
Dr. Stossel, a children’s doctor. He declared the child
to be dangerously ill of croup, and ordered him to the
Hospital for inoculation with diphtheria serum, as the
only means of saving him. Herr Stellbogen was much
alarmed and astonished, for the child had complained
of no pain, and was apparently well enough to play
with his brothers. But the doctor’s orders were so
imperative that he at once removed the child to the
S. Joseph’s Hospital, Kolschitzky Grasse, 9. ' He brought
him to the hospital himself and placed him in his bed ; a
bed from which a sick child was taken out to make room
for his boy. The sameinfected sheets were left upon
the bed. The next day a second child, three years old,
sickened and was also removed to the same hospital.
Both children were inoculated with serum. Day by .
day the anxious father called morning and evening for
news of his children. At ﬁrst all went well. On the
ﬁfth day he was told that the eldest had an abscess
on the place where it‘ had been inoculated. Herr
Stellbogen suggested that something might be done to
remove it, and was told that on the contrary it must be
sent inwards. Naturally, on the seventh day the boy
was reported to be in high fever, and apparently nothing
was done to allay it. During these days of waiting,
Herr Stellbogen learnt many facts concerning the
hospital. Herr Dr. Heim, with two young doctors,
walked the hospital daily, treating about 70 patients in
little less than an hour. ‘ Alas!’ Herr Stellbogen
remarks, ‘that the material for these young men’s
study is the life of a human creature! ’ Here, too, in the
waiting hall, anxious parents were brutally informed by
the porter that their children were dead. These fatal
announcements were often quite unexpected, as only
a few hours before the doctors had given favourable
reports. This was defended at the trial by Dr. Heim,
who stated that children often. died suddenly when in
the. best condition (rt/m, besten Wohlsein). And in the
waiting room Herr Stellbogen learnt also, that though
money might be refused, the doctors were not above
accepting expensive boxes of cigars. On the tenth day it
was reported that the youngest child might be removed

 

 

 

 

 




 

3

‘on the morrow; the eldest was still very ill, both

might become lame !

“ On the eleventh day the youngest boy was dismissed
as cured of diphtheria. The ‘cure,’ as effected by this
‘ humane’ serum is described as follows :——-—‘ Our boy
could neither walk nor stand, and had to be put to
bed at once. The colour of the skin, especially in the
face, was greenish.’ He coughed a great deal and
complained of pains in his feet and stomach. A
wound, of a ﬁnger’s length, showed where the child
had been inoculated. On the following day all the
original symptoms appeared, with fever and much
pain in the throat. Herr Dr. Melzer was called in.
At the sight of him the child screamed with fear and
opened his mouth wide for inspection. Herr Stellbogen
afterwards learnt that the hospital children have their
mouths opened by force by a machine constructed for
that purpose. This frightens and hurts them to such
a degree that, rather than have it used upon them, they
open their mouths wide and keep them in that position
as long as the doctors require. Thus the aspiring
embryo-medico can learn his practical lessons at his
leisure. Besides being lame, Herr Stellbogen’s little
boy was covered with a rash. He remained ill for
four months, and never recovered the use of his left
thumb. "Whilst nursing this little one at home, Herr
Stellbogen continued his daily visits to the hospital.
On the evening of the eighteenth day Dr. Diesner sent
word by the servant to tell the father to come and see
his child. It was not expected to live. Early in the
morning he hurried to the hospital and begged
Dr. Heim to let him take the child home, but was met
with a refusal. Herr Stellbogen persisted that the
child might be suffering from mental (seelische)
depression owing to its absence from home. Dr. Heim
answered heartlessly, ‘ Such a child has no soul’
(scale). That the Director of a Religious Hospital
could speak in such terms of a child committed to his
care enraged Herr Stellbogen, who at once sought
advice how he might legally remove his child. In the
meantime Dr. Melzer still attended the youngest child
at home. When the rash was pointed out to
him, he remarked carelessly, ‘Be thankful it has
nothing worse.’ He confessed the child was very ill.
‘ I had brought,’ writes Herr Stellbogen, ‘the little one

 

 




 

 

4

immediately on the ﬁrst day the sore throat appeared
to the hospital, and there it was made dangerously ill
by inoculation of the serum.’ On the twentieth day
Herr Stellbogen, armed with the knowledge that no
doctor can keep a child from its parents, went to the
hospital and demanded his son. This time he could
not be refused, but Dr. Melzer added, with the
permission, ‘that he thought the child would die on the
way home.’ When Herr Stellbogen saw his child
again he ﬁrst realised the martyrdom it had suffered.
The face was so drawn and altered that it was scarcely
recognisable. His mouth was dirty and neglected, the
saliva trickled down upon his equally dirty little night-
gown. He leant his fever-ﬂushed face upon his right
hand, the left was curled round as if broken. And
this was the same child Herr Stellbogen had seen last
sitting up gaily in bed with a round, happy face!
So much for the vaunted ‘ humane’ Serum-therapy!
Six days later the martyrdom of little Erwin was
ended. Heart-broken, Herr Stellbogen determined to
make the sufferings of his child known as a warning to
parents. This has cost him dearly, but the price has
been willingly paid, for Herr Stellbogen is a man who
recognises that ‘ Not the greatest thing in the world is
Technic, but Ethic; not Science, but Conscience / ’
In this matter he has followed the dictates of his
conscience.”

The facts of this story were all conﬁrmed by other

witnesses at the trial. In speaking of the evidence
given by other parents at the time, Herr Stellbogen
remarks that his story is “mild” compared to the
tragedies disclosed by some of them. It is impossible
here to give each terrible story; we must pass over in
silence the awful neglect of the children, the harshness
of the doctors both to parents and patients, the
callousness of these so-called Sisters of Mercy, and
give only instances of the results of the deadly anti-
toxin, the Diphtheria serum.
_ “ In 1898,” said Dr. Heim, during his cross-
examination, “ 820 children were brought to the
hospital with diphtheria. Of these 80 (25 per cent.)
died, the others were dismissed as cured.” We have
seen two cases of so-called “cure.” Let us consider
some others.

 

 




 

 

5

Franz Siegelbauer,an employé on the Siid Railway,
brought in February, 1899, his three-year-old child to
the hospital. The child was ill with Diphtheritis and
was inoculated. When dismissed as cured it was com-
pletely paralysed. The diphtheria spots were clearly
visible, and after a few days it died of blood-poisoning.

Marie Werstadt, the wife of a journeyman, brought
her seven-year-old boy to the hospital with fever.
The doctor took him from her with the remark, “ He
will get diphtheria.” He was laid in a bed from which
a girl with diphtheria had just been taken out. In a
few days he was dead.

Thekla Vogel, the wife of a carpenter, brought two
children to the hospital, one with diphtheria, the other
to be inoculated as a preventive.

This last she received again dangerously ill, and
though eventually cured, it is to this day a cripple
through inoculation. The other child lived ﬁve days
in the hospital. The mother visited it on the fourth
day, and it complained that a powder had been given
him which was burning his chest. The next day the
child was dead. We hear two or three times of this
powder, which is always followed by death, and that
death is expected is evident in this case, for the child
was already laid out when the mother visited it. The
same day the child died this unfortunate mother
brought two other children to the hospital (driven to
it by compulsion). The youngest was not very ill, but
in a few days it was dead. At mid-day it was given
the mysterious powder, at three o’clock its sufferings
were over. -

' Johann Lang, a locksmith, brought a sick child to
the hospital. The cause of illness was a bad foot.
Soon after it got diphtheria. The fate of this child
is not given, but its brother died at the same time of
diphtheria.

Josephine Fischer brought a child ill with measles. It
also got diphtheria, which led to abscesses and discharge
from the ears. After forty days of torment it died.

Karoline Pokoring, the wife of a rope-maker, had
a child in the hospital sick with diphtheria. After
twelve days it died of blood-poisoning.

Another unhappy mother, Karoline Krebs, brought
her child to be inoculated. It had no symptoms of
diphtheria. In two days it was dead.

 




6

Marie Tauber brought her child to S. Joseph’s
Hospital to be cured of diphtheria. After a long time
it was returned to her as “ cured,”——very ill, and with an
abscess in the stomach.

Cecilie Kattuns, the wife of a worker in gold, took
her ﬁve—year-old girl to the hospital to be inoculated,
as it had a slight sore throat. Her little baby was
inoculated likewise, as a preventive. She received
them back on the tenth day much worse than when
they went to it. In eight days they were both dead.

Pauline Mayer brought a little boy to the hospital
who suffered with something wrong in the nose. The
doctor declared it to be diphtheria. She had taken
her youngest child with her who was perfectly well.
The doctor took it from her and said it had diphtheria,
too. Both children were left in the hospital. At ﬁrst
she received only good news of them. Then one
morning she was told the one had fever, the other
scarlatina, but they were doing well. At the same
moment the porter came out and said the eldest was
dead. The woman’s husband then came, and demanded
his baby, and after the usual ceremonies it was given
him. The child was in a terrible condition. The
doctor they called in to see it, exclaimed at the con-
dition of its throat. After a long time this child was
eventually cured.

Johann Pavlirzek, a shoemaker, in Konigstadt,
took two children to S. Joseph’s Hospital, both ill with
diphtheritis. One died after fourteen days, the other
was returned to him. This latter brought the infec-
tion with him, and gave it to three other children, who
all died. When hisﬁfth child sickened, he took it to
a doctor in Ko'nigstadt, who told him his children
were poisoned with the serum.

Other instances might be given, but these are
sufﬁcient to show that the Diphtheria anti-toxin is not
the cure which the doctors assert, and that it leaves
behind it paralysis and blood-poisoning; and almost in
every case, weakens the heart. .

The serum is produced by cruelty, it is given With
cruelty, and its effects are cruel.

 

Printed for FRANCES POWER COBBE, Hengwrt, Dolgelly, by
PEWTREss & 00., 28, Little Queen Street, London, W.U.

 




