THE T®©THED
TRAP.

A BLOT ON OUR CIVILIZATION.

By W. BEACH THOMAS.

The steel tooth trap, of which at least 100,000 are in.
use in Britain to—day, might be taken as a symbol
of the torture chamber. It looks as vicious as it is.
It inﬂicts great pain on the animals it is set to capture-
and maims brutally a great number of animals which are
unintended victims. To give two personal experiences,
both quite accidental, In a spinney in the Midlands I'
found a fox lying stone dead in a bed of dry kex. It had
dragged to this half concealment a steel trap and a long‘
chain that had been set to catch rats in the village. Last
year in the Home Counties I found a cub wrestling with a.
singularly powerful steel trap. It would either have
died or—to quote a parallel from Norway——the vixen,
would have gnawed off the leg.

It is very important, where human emotions are in-
volved, that every general charge should be buttressed.
only by known facts. In this regard I do not propose to!
go beyond my own knowledge, and the sum of it is not
due to any direct inquest into the question but to the-
chance experience of myself and my acquaintance.

In the west country, where the practice of catching
rabbits with toothed traps is most general, the people are-
deprived of half the pleasure of keeping domestic animals.
They dare not let their dogs run free, even during a walk
with their masters, and. it is a common experience to ﬁnd.
cats return with maimed and diseased limbs. The return
is often after a long interval ,' and, of course, a number
never return. Dogs suffer more severely, for they have
less natural cunning in self—preservation than cats. In
one instance a bitch was found after ten days, alive but
emaciated, giving suck to a strong litter born several.
days after she was trapped. In one Welsh parish a cow
was caught by the lips. In the South of Hampshire a.
naturalist, who should be famous for his skill in photo-
graphy, assures me that many more than ﬁfty out of

 




 

every hundred pheasants are without one foot or both.
The loss is virtually always due to thesteel trap, from
which a powerful bird can usually escape at the expense
of a part of a limb. A landowner and farmer of my
acquaintance in Pembrokeshire, where the trade in
trapped rabbits is on a large scale, assures me that
partridges and foxes have been exterminated solely by
the agency of the toothed trap set for rabbits. Such. is
~the unearned increment of this diabolical apparatus.

The traps are usually set for rabbits. Not even a
trapper, however insensate his occupation has left him,
Wishes to catch dogs and cows, though he may rejoice
in the capture of game and cats and vermin. It is, I
think, established that the industry of trapping rabbits
has not diminished the numbers ; and this is due partly
to the upset of the balance of nature.‘ The natural
enemies of the rabbit, much less proliﬁc than their vic—
tims, have been exterminated. It is also due (though for
this I have only hearsay) to the habit of trappers in
releasing a certain number of the trapped does. Though
maimed they are still capable of breeding.

The sum of pain inﬂicted by the toothed trap is much
‘ increased in intensity as in extent by the great number
of traps set by a single trapper. He may put down over a
hundred at one time, sometimes on different farms at a
considerable distance. It is not likely that he should be
able, or willing, to visit all these at short intervals of
time, and some few he is likely to forget, perhaps for
several days. Our writers on natural history and indeed
our novelists, such as Mr. Williamson, continually refer
to the heartrending screams of trapped rabbits heard by
residents in Devon and the adjacent counties. These
poor creatures are enduring the double agony of pain and
fear ,‘ and as far as I can read the minds of such mam-
mals, fear is a greater cause of anguish than pain. This
sound of screaming rabbits is not occasional. It is a
commonplace of experience in country houses, a cry
against which the most sensitive must steel themselves
. as a recurrent memem‘o mori.

The offence of the steel trap would be less general,
though still terrible, if the regulations for its use were
observed. It is a legal offence-for persons having the
right to take ground game under the Ground Game Act,
1880 to set such a trap in the open where any passing




animal is liable to be caught. The trap must be set in. a
rabbit hole. It is in the nature of things difﬁcult, almost ‘ -
impossible, to enforce such a precaution. “ Whate’er
is best administered is "best,” and this law is not ad-
ministered at all. Indeed, in the sum of things it does
more harm than good, for it persaudes some good people
that the inﬂiction is not so great after all. But apart
from the continuous wholesale cruelty to the rabbits of
_ which many thousands are killed weekly by this bar-
.barous method, its general use has quite upset the
general balance of nature in some of the wildest and
most glorious districts of England and Wales.

The evil is not one that can be amended and assuaged
and qualiﬁed by regulations. Its evil is essential,
offending against the nature of life. It sullies our
civilization, our common humanity. The remedy, the
only remedy, is total prohibition. The fangs of this ser—
pent in Eden must be withdrawn. Only when it is
illegal to use such an instrument and indeed to possess
such an instrument—barbarous in its power to maim,
hurt and terrify—shall we purge our humanity of this
sin in its soul. Its enemies are numbered not only
among those who are temperamentally sensitive and
acutely humanitarian. Many men and ‘much more
women who delight in their various sports, who both
shoot and follow hounds, loathe the implement itself and
the uses to which it is set. Every daily paper in the land
and the general community throughout Britain would
welcome the total abolition of the toothed trap as a
historic stage in the journey of our people towards the
Holy Mountain. ,

Some day, when the millennium is a little more im—
minent, public opinion will compel the abolition of the
steel tooth trap itself, much more its illegal use in the
open. But we are not justiﬁed. in sitting still to wait for
that “ far-off divine event” to which we move. The
steel trap must be forbidden and it can only be forbidden
by an Act of Parliament. The police can, if they will,
administer the present Act so that the traps catch only
the intended victims; and though its illegal use has
most roused the general public, its common lawful
employment is not less cruel. The essence of cruelty as
well as the quality of the inﬂicted pain is “ savage and
extreme.” “7 h at cannot be mended must be ended, and

 




 

those who acknowledge the cruelty, as all must, are
morally compelled to concentrate efforts ’on abolition,
and abolition by Act of Parliament. The manufactrue,
the posesssion of such instruments of torture should be
an offence against the law as it is an offence against
humanity.

So does the core of the matter present. itself ; but in a
relative world we must deal in alternatives ; and a post—
script must be added on substitute traps, such as the
Americans, for example, have found for catching up grey
squirrels. A good deal. of work has been done, by
individuals, by such bodies as the Animal Welfare Group
of London University, and more centrally by the
R.S.P.C.A. It is already proved that the toothed snare
is unnecessary. Rabbits and vermin can be killed “in
many other ways ; by the use of long nets—very effec~
tive in skilled hands—by purse-nets, by spring snares
and by shooting, which is very much more humane than
trapping in the snare, for continuous fear is avoided.
Vermin can be killed very quickly by various forms of
gas, including carbon monoxide, and in any event, in the
country at least, they would never be so serious a cause
of loss as they are, if there were less interference with the
balance of nature—the killing of birds of prey and
particular species of vermin. Though perhaps the ideal
trap has not yet been perfected, it is, I think, a safe
prophecy that it would be found as soon as the tooth-
trap was forbidden. Negatively, if not positively, an
Act of Parliament prohibiting the steel trap under
adequate penalties would produce the humane trap and
spread humane methods.

Issued by the

Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals,

105, Jermyn Street, London, S.W.1.
10M/9/33 M & c

 




