 

“Two £M4MC

? 17W~¢ ”74-4-1

A
,_).

 

 

4,1 “it“:Ad—r _
12141—0 11,

CTM Y

 

INCORPORATED T)EC.24,
;. TO .. .
‘ PREVEN ’1" CRTJ'EL'E‘Y
‘”ﬂu;v< (THADRFN
AC‘IT bmANEiEDbCATl

D7

 

F ’ Ti‘a/TAFY 0F HT "7‘3” RT T FT

and. NOT FJS CTN THF US TL OF

T::,T EFT—“FTQTTY FGR [TRTNG
AT‘TTTVTAT. LTFFJ

I917
OFFICE:
CTTY HALL1 KANSAS CTTY, MO
Both Phones, 1901 Flam

 

 

 

 

 




 

 




‘0.

$171"..-

‘W , .J"‘.—L§>:‘.,
‘ ,,
‘ ”1.14

 

 

 

 

 

g; 3/1 ......

w

‘49:...

K's-13213:!— *- 4 m~ «

“r.

A ‘M—A—A—JV

 

through the woods, trailing its blood

 

/r he “Sport” of Killing

T a certain time in the year a

strange impulse takes possession
of some people. It is shown in a
desire to shed blood; to slay the help-
less; to scatter fear, pain and death
where once was life, peace and happi-
ness. It then becomes the “proper
thing” to leave one’s home, invade the
homes of our peaceful brothers of the
forest, and kill them for what we are
pleased to call our “sport.” It is then
that the beautiful wilds, which speak
of mystery and poetry and God, are
turned into shambles by those who
claim to be made in the “image of
God”; when the graceful and timid
deer, whose very innocence should
shield it from harm, chased and am-
bushed by human beings, rushes wildly

 

. , . . ‘ ‘ “Never shall I forget the look of
behlnd It on the thage Of 1th f0re§t those deep,_ shining, black eyes.”

home.

Why is it that so-called civilized men (and some women!) enter upon
this blood carnival with such enthusiasm? Is it on account of the out—door
life it offers? But that can be gained in a hundred ways without the
shedding of innocent blood. The camera, mmbing, and the joys
of harmless camp life should be sufﬁcient for human beings with a spark
of chivalry in their natures, without the need of hounding to death inno-
cent creatures living their own lives in their own homes. Why Should
we continue to hug to our bosoms the old, Wous associations of the
out-door life (legacies from our savage ancestry) when we can enjoy its
pleasures without them?

NOT SUDDEN DEATH ALONE
W

Let it be remembered this is not a matter of sudden death alone; for
many wounded animals crawl away to die slowly in some fastness. In
“Tracks of a Rolling Stone,” by Hon. H. J. Coke, are illustrated the possi-
bilities liable to occur in the chase of any wild animal that escapes,
wounded:—

“I got a long snap-shot on the stag and hit the beast in the haunch.

It was late in the day and the wounded animal got away. Nine davs

later I spied the big stag again. .
“Not once did he rise or attempt to feed, but lay there restlessly

 

 




beating his head against the ground. I knew well enough what that
meant. His plaint could not reach my ear, but it reached my heart.
I put up' the 20‘0-yard sight and killed him.

“I will not attempt to describe the body in detail. It would not be
desirable. I will merely say that it was wasted away and almost ﬂesh-
less except for his wounded haunch which was greatly swollen. This I
had done, and for my pleasure!

“After that year I went no more to Scotland.”

  
  
    
  
  

Among the seekers for such “pleasure” it may be that there are some
Whose souls still answer to the promptings of generous sentiment. To
such I would say: Stop .a moment and think—think twice at least before,
for the empty purpose. of displaying your physical dexterity, you deliber—
ately ad.d_tn the heavy load of jheworld’s misery. These creatures you are
about to molest have nerves like ours;- have hopes and aims and fears;
have affection and family ties; and they have never Wronged you! In that
remarkable book of Du Maurier, “Peter Ibbetson,” is found this passage,

pages 95, 96 :—

“As I picked it (the wounded rabbit) off the ground, and felt its poor
little, warm, narrow chest, and the last beats of its heart under its weak
ribs, and saw the blood on its fur, I was smitten with pity, shame and

[/remorse; and-I settled with myself that I‘ would ﬁnd some Either road to
English gentlemanhood than the slaying of innocent wild things, whose
happy life seems so well worth living.” ,

.h\

To those who, when the “open season” is on, are wont to ﬁnd their
“sport” in duck—hunting along our shores, I WOuld recommend the follow-
ing from a current periodical:—

“I remember I once stood at sunset on a lonely beach, looking out
over the water, completely absorbed in the beauty of the scene,'when
suddenly a tern sailed slowly into view. I raised my gun and ﬁred, and
the bird, with a broken wing, fell whirling through the air to the water.
Wishing to end its misery, I ﬁred another shot, but this fell short; and
then, my ammunition gone, I went slole back over the sandhills, leaving
the tern to ﬂoat back and forth on the dark water and utter its mourn-
ful cry. ' - ‘ '

“In the‘morning I' went again to the beach and found the poor
creature, half—dead, dragging itself up the sand, covered with blood, its
broken wing hanging from its body. In mercy I killed it. Never shall I
forget the look of those deep, shining black eyes that seemed to ask
only for death and relief from suffering. It seemed like murder. From
that moment I quit gunning forever.” DW'W” 7’ '“‘

J. M. Greene.

 

/“It is very strange and very melancholy that the paucity of human
g/pleasures should persuade usto call hunting one of them.” '

(Dr. Johnson.)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

Published by the AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Avenue,

Boston, Mass. Dr. Francis H, Rowley, President; Guy Richardson, Secretary.

Price, .25 cents per hundred, postpaid.




 

 

 

 

  

SIMON GRUB’S DREAM

[Originally published in Our Dumb Animals]

The text was this: “In as much as ye

Have done it to these ye have done it to me.”
Soon Simon slept, for ’twas sultry weather,

And the dream and the sermon went on together.

He dreamed that he died and stood at the gate
Of the outer court where the angels wait

For those who hear the glad “well done,”

And can enter the realms of the Holy One.

While Simon waited and wondered if he

Had forgotten the password, or lost the key,

A voice above him said, loud and clear,

“Do you know you must bring your witnesses here?”

“Of Witnesses there are many,” said he;

“My brethren and neighbors will all speak for me.”
But the brethren and neighbors came not near,
And he heard only a whinny, familiar and clear;

And old Grayfoot, the horse, stood just at his right,
While around on the other side, just coming in sight

Was a c owd of dumb creatures so forlorn and so poor
That WW opened the door.

Then Simon grew pale, and trembling with fear.

Said, “O why are not some of the brethren here?

Pray wait, pray wait, they’ll surely come.”
’Twas Grayfoot that Spoke then, and Simon was dumb.

 

“On wintry nights I’ve stood in my stall

When the cold winds blew through the cracks in the wall
Till every joint and sinew and bone

Seemed frozen and dead as the coldest stone.

“I’ve shivered the dreary time away
With only some wiSps of the poorest hay;
Then put to work with shout and blow,
So hungry and faint I could scarcely go.”

Then old Brindle came and, with soft brown eyes,
Fixed on her master in sad surprise,

Told a pitiful tale of starvation and cold,

, And how he had sold her food for gold.

The poor sheep told their story too

Of bitter wrongs their whole life through;
Turned out in cold and stormy weather,
To starve and freeze and cry together.

They were lowly cries, but they turned to prayer,
And ﬂoating upward had rested there

Close by the ear of Him who says,

“I will hear the cries of my poor always.”

The old house dog, though treated ill

Came near and fawned on his master still,
Because the love these dumb things know

Is more than human, more faithful, more true.

 

 

 




 

 

Then conscience woke, like some torpid thing
That is brought to life by the sun in spring,

And it lashed and stung him like poisoned thongs
As memory brought him his train of wrongs,
Forgetting nothing of word or deed,

Of cruel blows or selﬁsh greed.

His cruelly-treated friends that were dumb—

Would they follow him on through the ages to come?
Must he see them forever gaunt, hungry, and cold?
For “Time and eternity never grow old.”

How oft in dumb pleading they’d asked a caress
From his hands that had beaten and starved them! Ah yes,
He remembered it all, and it stung him to know
That the love they had craved had been met only with. blow.

0 could he live over the life that was past,

And leave out its sins, to stand here at last

With a soul that was white for a happier fate:

Was it conscience that whispered, “Too late, too late!”

He’d cruelly passed over life’s narrowing track,

Till remorse claimed its own,—for that never turns back:
And sins scarce remembered, remembered too late,

Grew black as he saw them from heaven’s barred gate.

’Twas in vain that he strove to speak to say
Those sweet old words, “Forgive, I pray”;
Sin’s last sad cry: he was silent there;

He was dumb, with such woful need of prayer.

Then voices seemed ﬂoating on every breeze:
“Ye did it to these, Ye did it to these.”

Go hence, be homeless, go starve and freeze:
“Ye did it to these, Ye did it to these.”

“And when you are faint and weary with woe

You will still hear the shout, you will still feel the blow
While a voice from which you shall never be free

Will whisper beside you, ‘Ye did it to me.’ ”

But hark! What melody over him rolls?

Do the angels sing requiems over lost souls?

His last hope had ﬂed. In an agony new

He awoke,—to ﬁnd himself safe in his pew.

What his dumb friends thought none ever knew
When food was plenty and blows were few,

But the teacher who follows us ever it seems
Gives his strongest lessons, sometimes in dreams.

Remember, dear friends, that the lips that are dumb
May be those that will speak when our time shall come
To stand at the entrance, and watch and wait

For the angel to open or close the gate.

Copies of this poem may be obtained for 25 cents per hundred, post-
paid, by addressing

THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
Back Bay Station, Boston

ItS per nu11u1cu, ljuuvrwnm

 

 

 




 

THE HUMANE SOCIETY.

..OF..

KANSAS CITY, MO.

Incorporated December 24, 1883.

DIRECTORS.

LANGSTON BACON. JAMES W. PERKINS.

R. B. MIDDLEBROOK. MRS. HOMER REED.
WM. 0. THOMAS. - MRS. C. J. SCHMELZER.
WM. H. SEEGER. EDWIN R. WEEKS.

L. A. HATFIELD, Chief Agent.

E. C. Cox, Assistant Field Agent.
E. E. MILLER, Stenographer.
MRS. LUELLA LOVE, Recorder.

OFFICE.

, City Hall, Kansas City, Mo.
Both ’Phones, Main 1901.

1917.

 

 

‘
‘l
‘l
,.
. I.
, 3“
, v"
1 .3
I "‘
;
' .1, L. ‘

i H

. >, .

li',

I .

_ 3.1:“

‘ 26,:
l -’ _‘
. J

' T'.

'u
m- -'

‘ a.)
3;:

l

‘3.
“‘5?
3.3:;
, '1!
‘.- ‘
y ‘5'.
'c‘i
. 2‘;
”fl“
.11
,‘w:
31:“

..,
‘.'.

.1.
15$." .
9‘. ,
i‘ n A
. 3‘ '3
l‘ . z
r“.
n. <

, *3}:
. V,“
,4 .'
I.
\ ;.
. “M
i .
| .
,v
iv
‘7; 3'
- l
l 5
i
:

 




‘ 1 1- '1 a Tmmamrm‘wnmm

 

, . .. 4w «IWTHWJVY, w mmmm w

PAST PRESIDENTS.

*THOMAS B. BULLENE _________________________________ 1884
’JAMES SCAMMON .................................. 1885-86
a’FRANK A. FAXON ______________________________ 1887-88-89
JAMES W. PERKINS _________ ‘ _________________________ I 890
*CHARLES CAMPBELL __________________________________ 1891
ALBERT YOUNG ______________________________________ 1892
*THOMAS B. BULLENE _________________________________ 1893

LIFE MEMBERS.

MRS. W. M. ABERNATHY. MRS. A. R. MEYER.
MISS CELIA ABERNATHY. *W. R. NELSON.

*K. B. ARMOUR. MRS. W. R. NELSON.
LANGSTON BACON. J. W. OGDEN.

MRS. LANGSTON BACON. J. W. PERKINS.

MISS STELLA BAKER. MRS. L. B. PRICE.
*CHARLES CAMPBELL. E. A. ROBINSON.

*W. H. CRAIG. EMMA W. ROBINSON.
FRANCES MASON DEAN. MRS. JOHN A. ROSS.
*FRANK A. FAXON. WM. H. SEEGER.
FRANCES DARLINGTON FAXON. MRS. W. H. SEEGER.
FRANCES DARLINGTON FAXON II. MRS. E. W. SHIELDS.
MRS. R. E. GOODLETT. MRS. E. F. SNYDER.
MRS. MILDRED FAXON HOUSE. MRS. E. C. SOOY.
FRANKLIN HUDSON. *THOS. H. SWOPE.

MISS MYRTLE JACKSON. MRS. JOHN H. THACHER.
KATE RIDENOUR LESTER MRS. FREDERICK VOLKER.
MRS. C. W. LITTLEFIELD. WILLIAM VOLKER.

MISS LOULA LONG. MRS. EDWIN R. WEEKS.
*WILLIAM LONG. MISS RUTH WEEKS.

EDWIN R. WEEKS.

 

*Deceased. , __ . I. ..

{1 _.

j?

 




é?

 

. 7—”...1 r—-*r—s—1—y—w—p=a‘1v~m.f.-"‘JQ"WC- 'q ‘15-.‘YthTfWC-1f<7lwx 5213.: 1-;7- .. - ', any».

CONTENTS.
Page if”? "
Animal Electrocution—Attendant’s testimony ..................... 19 j
Ash, L. R., Kansas City ................... 14 f
Ayers, F. H., Kansas City ................. 6 K
Bates, M. 13., Kansas City ................ 15 “x
Bewyer, W. S., Kansas City ............... 15
Burns, Frank, Kansas City ................ IO
Caldwell, C. M., Kansas City .............. I4
Cartlich, Dr. J. W., Kansas City ........... 9
Dean, 0. H., Kansas City ................. 18
Edison, Thos. A., Orange, N. J ............. 15
Foster, Dr. W. D., Kansas City ............ 8
Harber, C. A., Kansas City ................ 14
Hill, R. V,, Kansas City .......... . ........ 6
Hoxie, Dr. G. H., Kansas City ............ 8
Lamar, F. 8., Kansas City ................ 7
Laughlin, J. L., Kansas City .............. 7
Kealy, Philip J., Kansas City .............. 14
Kennelly, Dr. A. 13., Cambridge, Mass. . . 16
Kent, J. M., Kansas City ................. 12
Mailloux, Dr. C. 0., New York City ....... 17
Miller, Dr. Thos. F., Kansas City .......... IO
Osborn, Wm. T., Kansas City .......... .. . . 11
Paquin, Dr. Paul, Kansas City ............ 9
Pinkney, L. A., Kansas City ............... 7
Porter, Dr. D. R.,Kansas City ............. 8
Richardson, R. E., Kansas City ............ 13 ‘
Schaefer, J. F., Kansas City ............... 14 . .
Sprague, Frank J., New York City ......... 1‘6 -'
Steinmetz, :Dr. Chas. P., Schenectady, N. Y. 16 ft
Stuart, Dr. Jerome, Kansas City ........... 9 l .
Stewart, Dr. Sesco, Kansas City ........... 10 :
Thomson, Prof. Elihu, Lynn, Mass ......... 15 f
Tibbals, J. M., Kansas City ............... 13
Waddell, Dr. J. A. L., Kansas City ......... 18 7 . ‘ .3
Weeks, Edwin R., Kansas City ............ 4 ff”.
Band of Mercy—Municipal .................................... 23 r;
Bird Conservation ............................................. 22 {.4
Children’s Outings—for Humane Education ...................... 3 ‘ 2:
Horses’ Christmas ............................................. 21 :5
How to Help the Humane Society ............................... 25
Presidents and Life Members ............. : ..................... 2
Wder ............................................. .. 21
ummary of Agents’ Reports ................................... 20
To the' Public ................................................. 3
Treasurer’s Balance ........................................... 25

 




 

 

 

 




 

 

 

  

/ PUT YOURSELF IN HIS PLACE

{ Has the Golden Rule no right to govern us in our
treatment of the animal world?
3 Think wh

, at theianimals in any zoo have to bear:
First they must suffer all the wretchedness of a long voyage, during
which all of them are terriﬁed,

most of them are made ill, and many
die.. They are brought to a strange climate, which causes the death
, of many.

J Then they are cooped up in prison, usually in solitary conﬁne-
ment, scantily fed, bereft of the natural °

Joys of freedom, fresh air,
power to roam at will, and to mate. They are doomed to languish
in misery and despair till death comes

1ons, tigers, bears, monkeys and ot

whlps, iron spikes, hot irons

:5"
(D
SD
#1
U)
Pi
“U1
("l‘
E
‘<
S
O
S
p—A
p1
p—n
60
(D
83
0)
O
.‘3
(D
83
5
P}

But the people who earn money by these vile means persuade
the audience that “all is done by kindness.” Nobody is allowed to
know what goes on behind the scenes. Good men, women and
Children! Do your best to stop these shameful cruelties to God’s
creatures!

Now and always we are opposed to catching, capturing, snaring
these free children of the wood and wild and sh

utting them up in
cages and pens to wear out their lives in what is nothing but a prison.

, yes—emany an inmate of a jail gets better food and clothes than he
had outside, perhaps is in far less danger of being maimed or killed
by automobiles or at some railroad crossing, but he wears the prlsoner’s

garb and the stone wall and the iron bars are perpetually saying,
“Thus far shalt thou go and no farther.”

hen wild animals injure or interfe
killed, we have the right to do that——
us permlss1on to torment, abuse, or

 

re with man they must be

but mercifully. God never gave
torture them.

 

Published by the AMERICAN HU
Boston, Mass. Dr. Francis H

Price 30 cents per hundred

  




 

 

 

 

 

A PLEA FOR THE HORSE

Every horse will work better and longer if given three
ample meals daily ; plenty of pure water; proper s oes,
sharpened in slippery weather; a blanket in col
weather ; a stall 6 x 9 or enough room to lie down; a fly
net in summer ; two weeks vacation each year. Avoi
the cruel, tight check rein, and closely fitting blinders,
which cause blindness.

SPARE THE WHIP

 

 

 

T ESTI
NG THE NEW MOTOR-DRAWN SAND-SPREADER ON AN EIGHT PER CENT GRADE

A CHRISTMAS GIFT To THE HORSES.

 




 

 

TO THE PUBLIC.

This Society’s activities since its last published report include several
educational movements ”of great pith and moment,” the most important
of which are the establishment and carrying on of children’s summer
camps and outings in Swope Park; the holding of meetings in the Public
Library, churches, schools, and auditoriums in behalf of the Child Labor
Law; the protection of children, horses, and birds; and the conduct of
a symposium on the use of electricity for taking animal life.

As the children’s vacation camps and outings are to be fully covered
in a special publication which the Society hopes to issue at an early date,
this work is here passed with the remark that about one thousand chil—
dren have been entertained in the Swope outings, and some entirely new
and most effective methods of humane education have there been ﬁrst
put into successful practice.

At the public meetings, addresses on various phases of the Society’s
work were given by President Edwin R. Weeks; Mrs. J. C. Lester, of our
Audubon Committee; the Rev. Dr. Owen R. Lovejoy, of the National
Child Labor Committee; Hon. H. R. Walmsley, president of the Mis-
souri Audubon Society; IVIr. W. L. Webb, the Independence scientist;
Miss Edna Elizabeth Miller, teacher Manual Arts, Irving School; Judge
Wm. 0. Thomas; and Prof. Charles H. Philpot, of the Biological De-
partment of the Kansas City Junior College.

In furthering the purposes of the Society, the duties of its ofﬁcers and
agents are frequently both unpleasant and unpopular. This is especially
true of those corrections which run counter to some so-called vested
rights, the dictates of fashion, and the misguided practices of many well-
meaning friends of the humane cause. A notable case in point during
the past year was an effort to persuade our animal rescue homes to use
some painless means of terminating the lives of their homeless subjects
instead of the “automatic electric cage,” which some of these homes
have adopted and which is now seeking a wider recognition at the hands
of the ofﬁcials in charge of the public pounds in our towns and munici—
palities. So long as it is necessary annually to dispose of many hundred
thousand of the smaller domestic animals, the comparative degrees of
pain occasioned by the different methods employed in taking the lives
of these helpless creatures will be a matter of deep concern to humani—
tarians, whose purpose, of course, is to prevent unnecessary suffering;
and it certainly becomes the double duty of those humane societies which
undertake the work of the executioner to see that the method which they
themselves employ is the most nearly painless one available.

The strong tendency of error, once established, to persist makes it
the urgent duty of those who know the truth to bear timely witness
. thereof—especially in a case where millions of helpless, innocent creatures
are in danger of being afﬂicted with the most terrible and wholly un-
necessary suﬁ‘ering, and that, too, in the name of kindness and humanity!

.9

_- .3

 

 

 




 

 

NOTES ON THE USE OF ELECTRICITY FOR TAKING
ANIMAL LIFE.

)e-

BY PRESIDENT EDWIN R. WEEKS, Consulting Engineer.*

The benign thought that all necessary taking of life should be hu-
manely done, and that the long-drawn-out tortures of the rack and the
cross should be avoided, resulted in the adoption of more expeditious
executions by means of the guillotine, the rope, and the bullet; and the
same kind thought, holding that the humanities should keep pace with
the swift progress of this electrical age, has sought a still more expeditious
messenger of death in a current of dynamic lightning.

So varied and wonderful have been the actual accomplishments of
applied electricity, that a ready credence has always welcomed the ex—
travagant claims which have from time to time been made for this Protean
and, to the popular mind, almost omnipotent force.

Of the many .misuses to which electricity has been put, its com-
paratively recent application for the so-called “painless destruction” of
domestic animals is one of the most difﬁcult to correct, since its victims
can not testify, and since its advocates are generally well-meaning, kindly
souls who are unselﬁshly seeking the welfare of these dependent animals.
To some it may, therefore, seem rather ungracious for me to question
any method employed by these good people, and I am led to do so
only by a sense of responsibility to our helpless fellow-creatures—a sense
of responsibility which is the resultant of a practical experience in the
ﬁelds of applied electricity and humane education covering more than
a third of a century. I take it that a grave duty here devolves upon
those of us who are actively engaged in the ﬁeld of applied electricity,
and who, from the nature of our daily work, have the most intimate
personal knowledge of the sensible effects of electrical Sshocks upon the
nerves and tissues of living organisms; for, if the only persons who
have such positive personal knowledge fail to bear witness to the truth,
how shall the people be saved from “imagining a vain thing,” and the
painful “slaughter of the innocents” be prevented? .

The academic advocates of killing by the electric current hold that
the speed of electrical transmission insures insensibility and death before
there is time for the sensation of pain to be registered in the sensorium;
and many people, in view of this seductive theory and of the well-known
high speed with which electrical eﬁects are sometimes transmitted, have

 

*Mr. Weeks is a Fellow of the American Institute of Electrical Engi—
neers, Vice-President of the American Humane Education Society, and
Past President of the National Electric Light Association. He has had
thirty-four years’ experience in applied electricity as superintendent, gen-
eral manager, and consulting engineer in the construction and operation
of electric light and power plants. _

4

 

 

 




 

 

been led to believe that death by electricity must be the quickest and
therefore the most nearly painless.

But the speed with which electricity passes over any given path
depends upon many things (the nature of the path, induction, etc.), ’and
the time required to transmit sensation along the nerves from center to
center and to the sensorium is also a doubtful matter, still under dis-
cussion among the doctors—some even holding that the real perceiving
or feeling sensorium is not simply the sensorium proper, but must be
taken as comprising the entire nervous system. But such theoretical
considerations, however interesting, can not avail against the positive
testimony of those persons who have accidentally gotten into high po-
tential, low frequency circuits, and who tell us that they suffered great
pain before losing consciousness.

To present this matter to the intelligent mind, it should not be
necessary to resort to the technique of physics and physiology. We
need only to bear in mind that the physiological effect of an anaesthetic
is always to reduce or deaden sensation, and to put the nerves to sleep,
so to speak; whereas the physiological effect of any of the available
forms of electricity is always to quicken and to intensify sensation, and
to set the nerves tingling as from the thrusts of thousands of needles.

There is, of course, no doubt that the electric current, if sufﬁciently
powerful and if long enough applied, will kill any living creature; but
there are good reasons for believing that, even in its weaker forms, its
application to any animal is attended with no little pain, and that ad-
ministering an electric shock of sufﬁcient intensity to produce insensi-
bility or death causes, for an appreciable period of time (varying with
the vitality and resistance of the subject, and with the kind of current
employed and the skill of the operator), the most poignant pain and
the most awful agony that it is possible to inﬂict.

Furthermore, the cubical contents of any “death-box” or air—tight
cabinet being known, the exact amount of the anaesthetic required to
produce lethal saturation therein may be easily predetermined, and all
uncertainty eliminated. Whereas, with electricity, it is practically im—
possible to ascertain in advance either the Vital or the electrical resistance
of the subject, and it is extremely difﬁcult, as well as very distressing
to the subject, to secure good contacts at both electrodes. Since these
factors (Vitality and resistance) vary with creatures of different species
and with individuals of the same species, and since uniform and perfect
contacts are impracticable, it follows that each new capital operation by
means of electricity must be more or less experimental or uncertain, and
therefore can not be humane.

It is true that the electrical death, under some conditions, is cheaper,
and is always easier for the executioner; but the verdict of those normal
persons who have been so unfortunate as to “get into the circuit” and
who have “lived to tell the tale” is that its administration will inﬂict
the most terrible torture upon the helpless subjects.

The most economical and one of the most certain, as well as one of

5

 




 

the most nearly painless, passages over the “dark river” is probably
drowning; and, but for the distress in the minds of men and of some
animals caused by the fear of water, we might look no farther than to
this, the simplest as well as the most accessible means of terminating the
the lives of all land animals—especially the smaller domestic animals.
It is my belief that by adding to the painless passage into insensibility
induced by an anaesthetic the certainty of water submersion (or of some
capital operation) we have the most humane means of taking the lives
of all those animals, including man, with reference to whom consider-
ations of humanity or of public interest make such action necessary.

To obtain a consensus of opinion regarding this important matter.
inquiries as to the painfulness of animal electrocution were addressed to
a number of teachers of Physics and Engineering, physicians, electricians,
and electrical engineers, as well as to many linemen, dynamo—tenders,
and other artisans whose personal experience in handling electrical ap-
paratus while in service has qualiﬁed them to speak with authority on
this subject.

The quotations below given are from the replies received:

TEACHERS OF PHYSICS AND ELECTRICITY.

Several teachers of Physics and Electricity, who, by virtue of labor-
atory and class-room experience, may be reasonably assumed to know
something of this subject, are below quoted.

F. H. Ayers, Dean of the Department of Physics in the Kansas City
Junior College, writes:

“Referring to our recent conversation in which we discussed the
various methods of electrocision, I would say that in my judgment the
most humane method of producing artiﬁcial death is by the administration
of anaesthesia. The dosage and technique of this method are matters of
precise knowledge and practice. It is sure and practically painless, as
any human can tell you who has undergone a major operation in which
unconsciousness was completely attained.

“I am- quite sure electrical experts will generally agree that, in the
case of electrocision of animals, the operation is likely to be attended
with acute suffering, which is entirely avoided by the other method. I
would strongly advise against the electrical method. It involves too
many chances of faulty administration, and certainly nothing is gained
by attempting a doubtful method when we already have a standardized
method at hand.”

R. V. Hill, in charge of the Department of Physics, Westport High
School, writes:

“Whenever it is necessary to put animals to death, as in modern
cities it frequently is, the least painful method without question should
be used, and any method about which there is doubt regarding its pain-
lessness should be strongly opposed. There is good reason, both theoret-
ically and practically, for believing that there is much question as to
the painlessness of death by electrocution. The strength of the current
is the chief factor in producing the desired eﬁect, and in any given case

6

 




 

,

this strength is quite uncertain, since it depends upon the nature of the
terminal contacts and the resistance offered by the body of the animal.
The effect of the resulting current, determined as it is by the state of
health and general condition of the animal, is no less uncertain. This
results in a much longer time being required to produce death in some cases
than in others, with a consequent prolongation of the resulting torture,
about which there is no doubt from the testimony of all who have en-
dured severe electric shocks. This method is certainly not the most
humane one available.”

Franklin S. Lamar, head of the Physics Department, Manual Training
High School, and teacher of Electricity in the Polytechnic High School,
writes:

“ I Wish to strongly condemn the method of killing animals by means
of the electric current. The testimony of men who have been shocked
almost to the point of death, as to the suﬁering they have endured; the
fact that methods of electrocution are uncertain as to results, on account
of varying conditions of animals and contacts; that unconsciousness from
electric shock is not an instantaneous process; that there is a great chance
for unscientiﬁc and inhumane adjustment of electrodes, thereby causing
intense suﬁering, and the possibility of the current not killing until turned
on a second or third time, lead me to the conclusion that animal electro-
cution should be strongly condemned by all who wish to hinder unnecessary
suffering and torture.”

L. A. Pinkney, head of the Department of Physics, Northeast High
School, says:

“I do not believe that electrocution in any sense can be regarded
as a humane method for disposing of animals. The electric current pro-
duces an extremely nervous sensation even when used at small voltages.
This is especially true when the current is alternating. With the higher
voltages necessary for electrocution, this sensation is greatly intensiﬁed
and can not fail to cause great suffering until unconsciousness is produced.

“I certainly believe that death by some form of an’aesthesia ia more
humane.

“Success to you in behalf of our dumb friends.”

I. L. Laughlin, in charge of the Department of Physics, Central
High School, writes:

“In answer to your inquiry as to the best method of killing stray
animals, I would say that in my opinion one of the most painful is that
of the electric current. Persons who have been rendered unconscious
by an electric current state that the sensation is that of very intense
pain. If we did not have the statements of these persons, our knowledge
of the action of the electric current upon the nerves would lead us to
the same opinion. If the exact voltage necessary to send a killing cur-
rent through an animal’s body could always be predetermined and used
for each case, death might soon end the suffering. Since the resistance
of the same animal varies from one time to another, and since no two
animals have the same resistance, it follows that each case would present
a new problem. ‘

w
3 {y‘
if
‘1 an
E}
5;!
k».
i"
. '41
l "11‘

7

 




 

 

“I have been rendered unconscious by gas, and the sensation I
experienced was a pleasant one. It seems to me that the best method
of killing stray animals is to render them unconscious by putting them
into a gas-ﬁlled room and then killing them by drowning or bleeding.
This would be a painless operation.

“Electrocution as it is being carried on in many States at the present
time is a disgrace to civilization. I hope to see the day when all capital
punishment will belong to the past. If our laws demand that certain
criminals fOrfeit their lives, I believe that death should be caused by
some painless and humane method. I should like to see a movement
started for humane methods of killing both stray animals and criminals.”

PHYSICIANS AND SURGEONS.

The following quotations are from men of the highest standing in
the medical profession. ‘

Dr. G. H. Hoxie, the eminent medical author and practitioner, writes:

“Replying to your question regarding the relative merits of anaes-
thetics and electricity as a means of killing animals, let me offer the
following considerations:

“What is wanted is, of course, the means of producing death that
is attended with the least suffering. The suffering in such case may
be thought of as coming from two sources: (I) the preliminary arrange-
ments; (2) the application of the lethal agent itself. The preliminaries
to chloroform are not painful, nor are they terrifying; for the animal
is simply picked up and put into the death—box, Where it begins to breathe
in the sweetish fumes of the drug. On the other hand, for electrocution,
the hair must be shaved away and the electrode accurately adjusted—a
procedure which would be attended with considerable discomfort and
distress. '

“ Under perfect conditions, electricity brings about death more quickly
than chloroform does; but it is questionable if consciousness is lost as

quickly and as painlessly under electricity as under chloroform. This .

brings out the fact that the crux of the matter is the perfect adjustment
of the current to the resistance of the individual animal; and this, elec-
tricians tell us, is hard, perhaps impossible, to determine beforehand.
In view, therefore, of the apparatus available and of the technician who
employs the apparatus, it seem to me much more humane to employ
chloroform in putting to death the animals you name.”

The late Dr. D. R. Porter, for over ﬁfty years a leader of this pro-
fession in Kansas City, wrote as follows:

“I have thoroughly looked up the use of the numerous preparations
for causing death, and I ﬁnd there is none so good, or humane, as chloro-
form. The use of electricity, I ﬁnd, is attended with much pain, and
I would advise the continued use of chloroform for killing animals, just
as we have long been doing.”

Dr. W. D. Foster, Dean of the Faculty of the Southwest College of
Medicine, writes: _ .

“Regarding the most humane method of terminating the lives of

8

 

 

 

 

 




é}.

 

 

cats and dogs and other dumb creatures, I will say that the use of an-
aesthetics is approved for this purpose in all quarters of the civilized
earth. Cats and dogs, as well as most domestic animals, are particularly
responsive to anaesthetics. The use of the anaesthetic renders the animal
unconscious within a few minutes; so that whatever other method may
be employed to deﬁnitely terminate the life of the animal is unattended
with any pain or struggle.”

One of our most noted dentists, Dr. Jerome Stuart, writes as follows:

“You have asked me to suggest a humane method of destroying
stray animals. Asphyxiation is certainly one of the least painful, one
of the surest and the quickest—~drowning or some asphyxiating gas.

“Having twice been drowned to unconsciousness myself, I am sure
of that being painless, certain, quick, and economical. Next, fumes of
burning sulphur or charcoal, in the order given, are probably as sure,
but less convenient to handle. Of all methods now in use, I have found
electricity the most painful and torturing as well as the least certain.

“Respectfully yours in the interests of those poor creatures who
can not speak for themselves.”

One of our oldest and ablest homoeopathic physicians, Dr. J. W.
Cartlich, writes: .

“I deem electricity the most uncertain and the most cruel method of
destroying cats and dogs—far more cruel than anaesthesia, drowning, or
the different forms of gases. It seems to me that electrical execution is
going backward some centuries to the tortures of the Inquisition. It is
not instantaneous, as some time intervenes before the loss of conscious-
ness takes place. Though the pain does not last so long as does that
of death on the cross or the rack, yet it is much more general and intense
while it does last. One of my patients, who from shock from electricity
had been resuscitated, described his feelings as follows: ‘During those
few moments before unconsciousness came to my relief, I thought all
hell had broken loose to torture me. Every nerve and ﬁber of my body
seemed to be piereced with millions of red-hot needles, as if all the demons
had set upon me with their ﬁery darts and burning pitchforks. I can
not imagine anything worse.’ After more than forty years of active
practice in the medical profession, it is my strong opinion that anmsthesia
offers the most nearly painless and the most humane means for the
execution of our dumb animals——or even of our criminals.”

The late Dr. Paul Paquin, formerly Professor of Pathology in the
University of Missouri and until his recent death the able Director of
Kansas City’s Health Department, wrote:
c1! ”Referring to your inquiry as to my views regarding whether exe-
cution by electricity is the most humane -method, I beg leave to advise
you as follows: I consider the use of electricity for the purpose of de-
stroying animal life most cruel. Electricity, particularly the alternate
current, when applied to animal life, as has been established time and
again by those who have been partly electrocuted, greatly increases sensa-
tion and pain. The most humane way of destroying life is by means of

9

 

 

 




 

an agent which tends to reduce sensation, and, in this line, we have
nothing better than chloroform or ether.

“The above statements, I am sure, are indisputable, and, further-
more, I would add that no one, no matter how scientiﬁc he may be, can
determine in advance the exact amount of electrical power necessary to
kill any being, or how long it will take; nor can anyone determine the
amount of vital resistance of any being to the electrical current.

“Therefore I consider electrical execution the most cruel method in
existence to-day, not excluding the guillotine or the rope._ If it is desired
to extinguish life by a humane process, a positive and sure one in which
can be determined in advance the exact amount of material necessary to
kill without pain, everything should be abandoned except some gaseous
element of the nature of chloroform.”

On being requested to name the most humane method of taking
animal life, Dr. Thos. F. Miller, acting Director of our Health Depart-
ment, writes:

“ In answer to your request, I will state that in my opinion death
by anaesthesia, either chloroform, ether, or nitrous oxide gas, would be
an absolutely painless method for the destruction of life.”

Sesco Stewart, M.D., Dean of the Faculty of the Kansas City Veter-
inary College, writes:

“In reply to your inquiry in regard to a humane method of destroy-
ing animals, I would say that I am fully convinced that the leaden bullet,
properly directed, is the most positive and certain agency at our command,
particularly for the destruction of large animals. In thickly populated
districts, where the use of ﬁre-arms is seriously objectionable, the de-
struction of small animals by drowning is the most positive and the
least distressing to animals. The use of narcotics and electricity are
uncertain and the patients suffer much before death is accomplished.”

ENGINEERS, ELECTRICIANS, AND ELECTRICAL ARTISANS.

It is evident that the last word upon this question must come from
those who have had the most extensive experience in the operation'and
personal handling of live circuits and electrical machinery while it is in
service and who themselves have received severe lethal electrical shocks.
Among those qualiﬁed to speak from this point of View (i. e., literally from
“the valley of the shadow of death”), none are better ﬁtted to testify
than are the men below quoted.

This letter from Mr. Frank Burns, of the Kansas City Light and
Power Company, is especially pertinent, since it describes the effect of
a shock from the alternating current IIoo—volt circuit which is employed
in some of the animal cabinets:

“I am writing in compliance with your request for my opinion as
to the humanity of killing animals by electricity, and I will say that
I know that it can not be done without the animal suffering the most
awful pain.

“You will remember that while you were the general manager of
this company (I think it was in 1893) I accidentally got into the altern

10

 

__ m ‘__.___ "91F _ n

 

 




 

 

. I

 

nating circuit (1100 volts) While I was working on a pole at 18th Street
and Troost Avenue. I have no words to fully describe the tortures that
I suffered on making contact and for some time (it seemed a long time),
until I became unconscious and fell from the wires and was brought
to the ground by my fellow—workmen. While I felt the awful burning
and the ﬁerce needle-pricks of the current, my muscles were paralyzed
so that I could not help myself and could not even cry out for assistance.

“Since that time I have received many shocks from both alternating
current and direct current circuits at 220 and 550 volts and from circuits
operating arc lamps in series; and while all were very painful, I never
felt anything so terrible as that 1 IOO-VOlt alternating current shock. As
you know, I lost the third ﬁnger of my right hand and was unable to
Work for thirty-eight weeks.

“I may say that I have also taken chloroform and ether and that
in so doing I suIIered no pain to speak of while losing and regaining con-
sciousness. It is therefore my strong conviction that electricity should
not be used either to carry out the death sentence on humans or to destroy
those unfortunate animals that have outlived their usefulness—any other
method would be more humane.”

W. T. Osborne, one of our pioneer electrical engineers and con-
tractors, writes: -

“In reply to your inquiry as to my views in connection with the
electrocution of animals, I beg to state that since early in the year 1885,
when I entered the service of the Edison Company, I have been actively
and continuously engaged in the construction, operation, testing, and
repairing of electric light and power plants and machinery, and while
so engaged have received many electrical shocks and have observed t
effects of such shocks upon others. As a result of this long practical
experience, it is my opinion—I may say that it is my positive knowledge——
that the passage of electricity through the human bodv causes the most
excruciating pain, varying with the condition of the person and the na-
ture, intensity, and duration of the shock. I will also state that I have
observed that animals seem to suffer the same as do human beings While

 
   

in circuit. And it is my opinion that the taking of animal life by means .

of the electric shock is cruel and inhuman and that it subjects the Victim
to great pain and suﬁering.

“The taking of criminals’ lives in this manner may possibly be justi-
ﬁed for the purpose of causing the victim great suffering for the crimes
he may have committed. The chloroform route would appeal to me as
the most humane, as I have experienced both. And I would suggest
that any persons doubting the above statement subject themselves to
such tests and thereafter decide their preference.”

C. A. Harber, for twenty-ﬁve years Superintendent of the Kansas"

City Electric Light Company, writes:

“You ask my opinion as to whether I consider electrocution as
humane a method of ending the lives of stray cats and dogs as would be
the use of an anaesthetic, such as chloroform. Without any hesitation,

11

/

mgr-away W.,_.§;..,_.g_;3,,_.-‘:_. . W .-;~A_.,._V._-.p A.‘:‘.,_

I
I:
I
I
I
I

2213‘” *—:m**wv 5:.

‘1' 4-. ‘1 "5L- 1'1157 t":

=7???-

 

 

_‘ . 441-35137”

I
a

1..

w-mv». s-wr. :s’v‘ﬁ-
;. 4-" . - ~;; .

. ”:71 iv? v-

"”42:

~ -_ >4:_Iuﬁc . I.

 




 

 

 

 

I answer positively that I do not; and I base my opinion upon long
observation, the statements of noted scientists and electricians, and upon
thirty years’ personal experience in applied electricity. My twenty-ﬁve
years’ work as superintendent enabled me to personally feel the effects
of the electric current and to note its eﬁects on a number of our employees.
“The experience of all who have been shocked into insensibility
proves that there is an appreciable time (seemingly hours to the victim)
between the instant of contact and unconsciousness. The body, being
surrounded by a protecting envelope, is insulated to some degree and
offers a resistance to the passage of the current. This resistance varies
greatly with different animals and also in the same animal, depending
on the moisture of the cuticle and the vitality of the body. This re-
sistance must be broken down, either mechanically or by the action of
the current, before the full charge can enter the body. With animals
covered with hair there is an added resistance, which makes it more
diﬂicult to secure good contacts at the electrodes. The forcing of metallic
points into the body is cruel and does not produce sufficient surface
contact, and the path for the current must be enlarged by burning.

“In my opinion, the action of a heavy current through the body is
in great part a process of burning, wherein death results quicker than
it does when the Victim is burned in an Open ﬁre at the stake.

“An anaesthetic is given to subdue the pain in nearly all surgical
operations, and if administered to animals in sufﬁcient quantity and with
the proper time limit, both of which can be predetermined, painless death
is the result. A great many people have experienced the effects of gas,
chloroform, or some other anaesthetic, and know that it is painless and
that it is no experiment; but very few outside the electrical trades have
had any experience with electricity. I suggest to those advocating elec-
trocution for animals that they themselves get into a live alternating
current circuit, like that used on the animals, and determine for themselves
the effects of such shocks upon living creatures.”

Prof. James M. Kent, an electrical and mechanical engineer of the
highest rank and the widest experience and for twenty years instructor
in Steam and Electricity in the Manual Training High School, says:

“In reference to the application of electrocution in the disposal of
homeless stray animals, instead of the use of the ordinary anaesthetics,
I will say that I am earnestly opposed to such procedure. In an ex-
perience of over thirty-ﬁve years in electrical work I have repeatedly
been subjected to accidental contacts with electric circuits, operated at
pressures between 110 and 500 volts, and can testify as to the extreme
discomfort attending such application in the case of pressures higher
than 220 volts.

“For the beneﬁt of those who may be inclined to admit the above,
but who still claim that the result may be wholly different with higher.
pressures, I will say that I was once unfortunate enough to make a
perfect hand-to—hand contact across a circuit of some unknown pressure
(considerably higher than 500 volts), with the result that I escaped death

12

 




w 4“ .
‘ ‘ 1‘1"" . , .
n‘ ‘. 'l ‘
|

only by the very narrowest margin. From this experience I am able to
testify that the application of higher voltages merely aggravates the
physical distress produced.

”Judging from my extended experience in these matters, I feel quite
certain that the application of electrical pressures of any intensity to the
bodies of men or animals does not bring about instant death. It is my
certain belief that between the instant of application and the time of
unconsciousness and ensuing death a period of not less than several
seconds intervenes, during which period the subject is experiencing the
most intense agony.”

Mr. R. E. Richardson, of Pierce & Richardson, one of the most
prominent engineering ﬁrms of Boston, Mass, and for several years gen-
eral manager of the Kansas City Electric Light Company, says:

“I was more than surprised to learn from your letter that people
who are really trying to lessen the sufferings of dumb animals could for
one moment suggest the substitution of the electric current for chloro-
form for killing stray dogs and cats. There is no question in my mind
but that they can kill the cats and dogs with electricity; but I am more
than sure that, due to lack of knowledge as to the best way of applying
the current and due to the fact that a shock that would kill one animal
would not necessarily kill another (as undoubtedly animals vary the
same as human beings), the result will be that they will have a little
torture-chamber there, instead of a humane place for the disposition of the
unfortunate cats and dogs. .

“Everyone knows that an animal can be chloroformed without caus~
ing it any suffering and without its feeling alarmed at the preparations
being made for its destruction, and I fail to see why humanitarians, if
they are humanitarians, would consider for a moment the changing from
a known painless method to an experiment.

“I note that humanitarian reformers in Boston have approved this
method; humanitarian reformers there have also suggested the pardoning
of Jesse Pomeroy.

“I am not questioning the motives or feelings of humanity which
prompt those people in advocating electricity instead of chloroform; but
I most certainly know that they are sadly misguided, and I trust that

such animals as are obliged to be disposed of will be put out of the way
by a known painless method.”

Mr. J. M. Tibbals, engineer at the Westport High School, writes
as follows: .

“Referring to the practice of putting to death stray dogs and cats
by means of the electric current, I would say that I consider it cruel
and directly opposed to the principles of your society. Having had some

thirty years’ experience in the operation of electric light machinery and

having been at one time rendered unconscious by accidental contact
with a high-tension current from a T-H direct current generator, I feel
that I am competent to testify that in the short interval (it seemed any-
thing but short) between contact and unsciousness one suffers great
physical torture.”

13

 




 

 

 

Mr. J. F. Schaefer, inventor of the Schaefer Lamp and for many
years agent of the General Electric Company in the Southwest, writes:

“The application of dynamic electric energy to extinguish either an-
imal or human life is without question the most terrible in its attendant
suffering; and while big voltages may be applied, the results must neces-
sarily vary on account of the different resistances of the active organs
in different bodies. The use of anaesthetics to extinguish life is more
humane, as it causes less suffering, if any, and besides, it gives absolutely
certain results.

“Those who have never suffered during and after electric shocks
have no comprehension of the terrible torture during the conscious and
semi-conscious stages and the ﬁnal possible recovery, all of which I per-
sonally experienced in I884 at Cambridgeport, Mass, with dynamos of
my own design.

“ It is an unsolved question how long conscious life and suffering
lasts after the application of electric shocks, until death comes. In my
opinion, a transformation of the arteries and nerves by a process of semi-
carbonization is necessary before life becomes extinct, requiring different
periods with different subjects and inﬂicting the most terrible suffering
upon the victims until complete unconsciousness brings relief.”

Philip J. Kealy, President of the Kansas City Railways Company,
writes:

“This note is pursuantvto your request of Tuesday last that I write
you as to whether or not electrocution is a more painful death for ani-
mals than chloroform. Electrocution is a very gruesome and painful
manner of destroying life; certainly a much more painful one than by
drowning, chloroform or any other proven anaesthetic.”

Ex-City Engineer L. R. Ash, C.E., who also took a university course
in Electrical Engineering, writes:

“I understand that electricity is being used in some places for the
execution of stray dogs snd cats, and I want to indicate my objection to
this process of murdering such animals. I think it will be agreed by
persons who have made a study of electricity that it is not the proper
method for execution, and that it is painful and attended only too fre—
quently by recoveries, which make the attempt to take the life a horrible
experience.

“There are other ways available, possibly at less expense, which are
sure, and which at the same time are not attended by the horrors that
so frequently accompany the electric application; so that it seems to
me there should be no hesitancy in the choice of one of these other means
(for instance, anaesthesia) for ridding ourselves of animals; and to my
mind it would also afford a very much more humane method than does
the use of electricity or the rope in the execution of criminals.”

Charles M. Caldwell, City Electric Meter Inspector, writes:

“In reply to your query asking my opinion as to the choice of killing
dogs and cats, I will state that I have often come in contact with live
circuits and received electric shocks, both alternating current and direct

14

 




 

 

current. If there is any pleasure attached to the same, I have failed to
discover it during my twenty-two years’ eXperience.

“I don’t want to ‘knock’ the electric game, but, for the sake of the
animal, use an anaesthetic.”

The City Electrician of Kansas City, Mo., Mr. M. E. Bates, has
had over thirty years’ experience as an electrical engineer, both in the
construction and operation of electric light and power plants. Mr. Bates
writes as follows:

“In response to your inquiry as to the advisability of executing
stray and superﬂuous animals by electricity or otherwise, I should say,
by all means ‘otherwise,’ if the humanitarian feature of the process is
to be considered. .

“ If you have any bitter feelings against the dog and think that he
should be made to suffer for any fancied misdeeds, electricity is just the
thing. I should judge that it would be. even better than molten metal or
boiling oil.”

W. S. Bewyer, the oldest operating engineer in the employ of the
Kansas City Light and Power Company, writes as follows:

“In regard to the use of electrocution of dumb animals, I will say
that it is anything but painless. In 1885 I was knocked senseless on
accidentally getting into a direct current circuit, operating forty 20-
ampere Sperry arc lamps in series. Before losing consciousness, I ex-
perienced for some time, amounting to at least many seconds (it seemed

hours), great pain and agony as of ten thousand needle-thrusts, accom-

panied by a terrible burning sensation. Since that time, I have been
continuously engaged in handling and operating electriclight and power
apparatus, and on several occasions have received shocks from direct
current circuits at 550 volts and from alternating current circuits of
1100 and 2300 volts. The suffering caused by the alternating current
shocks was more intense than was that caused by the direct—“current
shocks. I have also had personal knowledge of many similar accidents
to my assistants and fellow-workmen, and have heard these men tell of
experiencing similar suffering while in circuit.”

INVENTORS, PROFESSORS, AUTHORS, AND ENGINEERS.

Millions are employed and billions are invested in the use of the
inventions of the men below quoted—men whom the entire scientiﬁc
world delights to honor and whose lightest word commands the most
respectful attention.

. The world’s greatest inventor, Thomas A. Edison, writes:

“In regard to the question brought up in your letter, let me say
that in my opinion the anaesthetic method of ending the lives of stray
dogs and cats is more humane than the use of electricity for that purpose.”

Prof. Elihu Thomson, the noted scientist, teacher, inventor, and the
Chief Electrician of the General Electric Company, says:

“ I agree with you most thoroughly in your opinion as to the method
of disposing of stray dogs and cats. The method by anaesthesia is to my
mind far the most humane, and it is the one to which I have always

15

_.¢_< - ,w—rr—r»r:-.::r'-r--A-:~2.L~v - ‘ ' '
4.,» ‘ ~;‘-v.v. . n ‘1 g A v — __ .«-.,.l~j .. 1

-V—-‘ . ~ A-« .s . 4-4,.“ Tun—1.". ,_. a, xirvem . w :n . 1 2"; “up .=v;:e«-.=- ‘12-”‘7. -.- _.. ~._
hn/—;: ‘ .4 _ ,.;—<l~.-.:e«: ‘,-.;1 331.551. “1-,; .‘~._.< .-~ H, _ .< ._

7,? 4‘“ . .

i,
ii:
:2“
I" :
k u

j; ,z."* vuﬁs 413—33,”) 5 'V'S‘;ryﬂ-

l1.._.nr‘z,; ~w

_' ‘4‘“??? k Wru'KiﬁT. _.-. .; “a" .; _ 2‘

\..._u( Ava—1,.

_ .... ---——n:—r.~—.—~ ,
““'- .' ‘ .:.;-:<é~.+21'

- we“

~ 4 r-<A—‘VA‘4
, . 3.1.. '.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

resorted when there was need of getting rid of an animal which was
suffering or which had outlived its usefulness.

“I do not think that the electrical method has any advantages over
the ones commonly employed; and it certainly is not by any means as
humane, as some individual animals are highly resistant to electrical
shock; and if an animal is covered with fur or hair, it would be necessary
to shave a space upon it for the proper application of the electrodes.
It is, of course, as you fully appreciate, no argument that because any
method is used in Boston or New York some other method may not be
better. Oftentimes the introduction of a method is due to some mis—
informed person who has inﬂuence; and I think this, in fact, was the
case with the introduction of electrocution, which, by the simple force
of example, has been copied from New York into other States.”

Dr. Charles P. Steinmetz, the eminent author, college professor,
inventor, and engineer, writes:

“Answering yours of the 4th as to whether the killing of animals by
electricity would be more humane than by the use of anaesthesia, I would
without any hesitation answer this in the negative. I believe that the
use of electricity would be an unjustiﬁed and indefensible cruelty.

“To kill by electricity, a sufﬁciently powerful current must be passed
through the vital parts of the body. Most of the resistance which op-
poses the current is in the contacts (skin and hair), and it is entirely pos-
sible that some animals may not be killed, but be merely badly burned
and slowly roasted to death, by the application of a current far greater
than would kill other animals.

“In other words, killing by electricity is not a simple matter, but
requires skill and experience, and would, with different kinds of animals
and with different varieties of the same kind, require considerable ex-
perimentation (call it vivisection) to develop the best method; and even
then I doubt its reliability, when considering that human beings, who
are physically much more similar to each other than, for instance, dif-
ferent varieties of dogs, have been killed by 200 volts, when others have
received shocks of 10,000 and 20,000 volts and have lived.

“Thus electrical killing of animals is altogether too uncertain to be
considered from a humane point of View.”

Dr. A. E. Kennelly, Chief of the Electrical Engineering Department,
Harvard University, says:

“When the case of dogs is considered, the difﬁculties of applying
electrocution are much greater. It seems to me that the method of
removing their life by the administration of anaesthesia is far simpler
and more certain to be humane than by the application of electricity.”

One of the most noted inventors and engineers, Frank J. Sprague,
the father and chief inventor of the electric railway and a member of
the Naval Board recently appointed by the United States Government,
says:
“I think it would be a great mistake to use electricity instead of
anaesthetics in doing away with stray dogs and cats. Its use would be

16

 

 




 

 

attended with great suﬁering; whereas the action of anaesthetics is per-
fectly well known and, properly used, will insure painless death. Elec-
tricity is no ‘cure-all,’ and the fact that it is used in Boston for this
speciﬁc purpose means nothing except that someone has succeeded in try-
ing a new experiment.”

Dr. C. O. Mailloux, the dean of the Electrical Engineering profession,
past President of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers and
President of the last International Bureau on Standard Electrical Units,
in a recent letter, says:

“Your letter of the 22d was received by me here recently, on my
arrival from Alaska, having been remailed from New York by my secre—
tary. I note your views in regard to methods of disposing of stray cats
and dogs, and I have not the least hesitation in endorsing them most
emphatically, because they are sound and thoroughly scientiﬁc.

“I am really surprised that any body should, at this late day (when
everybody should know far better), seriously propose electrocution as a
method of taking life in a humane and painless way. I have also a high
opinion of Boston and of its culture, being myself a Massachusetts man,
but this is most certainly a case where the Bostonians are on the wrong
track, if they believe that they are humane in advocating electrocution
for animals.

“As I studied medicine before taking up electrical engineering, I
think I can consider myself fairly well qualiﬁed to deal with the question
from the physiological and biological points of view, as well as from
the electrical standpoint. I have always been opposed to the use of
electricity for lethal purposes, whether for human beings or for animals.

“It is a practice that is quite as barbarous as were many other
methods of capital punishment that once disgraced mankind, and of
which even the most cruel and ignorant person living in a civilized coun-
try to-day would be thoroughly ashamed. The man who started the
‘fashion’ of electrocution in New York State, the ﬁrst State to adopt it,
was not a benefactor as he perhaps honestly believed. If it were not for
the credit that must be given his good intentions, we would have to say
that he was a malefactor or a barbarian. There is nothing, however, to
offset the charge that he was a misguided faddist who was obsessed with
the notion that electricity was everything—that it was life, that it was
death, and that it could and should be used in inducing or in causing
either. The scientist to-day is perfectly justiﬁed in saying that only an
ignoramus could stand for such a proposition.

“European scientists who have gone to the very bottom of the sub-
ject of the action and eﬁect produced on living organisms by electricity
look upon us in America as barbarians for not doing away with electro-
cution, in the light of what investigation and experimental research, as
well as accidents, have brought to our positive knowledge.

“Electric shocks always produce pain when they react upon the
tissues either physiologically or chemically in a way sufﬁcient to cause
lesions or death. To do that, they must have a certain strength and a

17

 

 

 




 

rather low frequency (below one or two thousand per second). When
they are of a high frequency, sufﬁcient to be no longer painful, they are
no longer harmful or fatal under ordinary circumstances. So the only
form of electric action that would be humane is one that could not be
fatal or even harmful under ordinary circumstances.

“You are doing the proper, humane thing in combating this delu-
sion in regard to the mercifulness of electrocution for any living being.
You are opposing delusion, misconception, and ignorance, and are ﬁght-
ing the battles of truth and real scientiﬁc progress. N o matter whether
Boston or any other big city falls into that serious error, your city should
not do it; but should, on the contrary, do what it can to show others
who are off the right track the error of their ways.

“The use of anmsthesia is still, and is likely to remain, the most
humane and painless method. I close, as I began, by endorsing your
views fully and completely. Let me add the sincere hope that they may
prevail, for the sake of humanity and progress”.

While some may not know Dr. Mailloux’s eminent ﬁtness to testify
on this subject, there are few Kansas Cityans to whom Dr. J. A. L.
Waddell’s high standing as an author and engineer are not known. Dr.
Waddell was asked for his opinion of electricity as a means of taking
animal life. His reply, after he had read Dr. Mailloux’s letter, was
as follows:

“You have asked my opinion concerning the electrocution of do-
mestic animals. Personally I know very little about it; but the state—
ments made in the letter of my friend Dr. C. O. Mailloux are conclusive
and incontrovertible. I am well and intimately acquainted with him,
and I know him to be not only a man of great ability and broad general
learning, but also one of the world’s highest authorities in electricity;
consequently his dictum should be ﬁnal.”

One of the most eniment attorneys at the Kansas City Bar, Mr. O-
H. Dean, writes:

“F or several years I was the attorney for the Kansas City Electric
Light Company, and in trying many personal injury cases I learned some-
thing of the theory and practice of applied electricity. I discovered, in
my examination of witnesses and the hearing of testimony in the courts,
that the shocks occasioned by electricity are exceedingly painful.” I also
once had a personal experience of my own inﬂt’r’y‘iﬁz’g‘t‘o' rexﬁavé a telegraph
wire which I thought was in a position dangerous to the public. It gave
me a severe shock, which was exceedingly painful. I believe that the
killing of animals by electricity is highly cruel and should not be prac-
ticed. There are anaesthetics, such as chloroform, which can be used
to destroy animals that have to be destroyed.”

The following letters are from persons who worked several months

/ as matron and lethal agent or as attendant and assistant lethal agent in

/‘~‘ w...

animal rescue homes where the “automatic electric cage” was in use.
These letters speak for themselves and fully justify the opinions and
fulﬁll the prophecies on the preceding pages.

18

 

,, _.___._. “A“,d‘




 

In order that no one need be embarrassed by the publication of the
truth in this matter, the addresses and signatures are omitted.
“Dear Sir:

“I am writing in the hope that something may be done to do away
With the use of electricity for taking animal life, as my experience during
the past year as matron of the Rescue Home, where electricity is in use
for this purpose, has convinced me that as a lethal agent it is the cause
of much terrible and unnecessary suffering. I have often seen dogs and
cats come back to life after having been put through the electrocution
machine; and they often had to be put back several times before death
ﬁnally came to their relief. It would also often happen that blood would
spurt from their mouths while they were in the machine and on being
taken out; and on some occasions animals supposed to be dead were
still alive the next morning in the dead—box.

”On the other hand, with a proper amount of chloroform, which I
personally administered to at least three thousand animals during my
matronship at the Home, the subjects did not struggle or show any signs
of_ suffering, and, within a few seconds after being placed in the chloro-
form-boxes, quietly went to sleep. I am strongly of the opinion, I may
say that I am absolutely sure, that the electrical death for animals is
very uncertain and that its use occasions, both in the preparation and
the application, the most awful suffering. That this suffering is almost
wholly unnecessary I am certain from my experience with chloroform,
as above indicated.

Hoping that something can be done for the protection of these help-

less creatures, I remain

 

“Yours very truly,
“Dear Sir. -

“I feel that I should call your attention to the cruelty being prac-
ticed in handling and disposing of the domestic animals that are so un-
fortunate as to fall into the hands of the people who are in charge of
our Animal Rescue Home. I worked there over a year, and left the
service after protesting against the cruelties, because I could not stand
to see the treatment of the animals.

“I have seen the same dog put back into the electrocuting machine
three times before it was at last dead. I have seen dogs with their necks
so burned that the smell of roasted ﬂesh was all over the place. I have
found animals alive among the carcasses of other animals in the dead-box
the day after they were supposed to have been killed by being put through
the electric machine. And, when the doctor would tighten the metal
collar driving those metal spikes into the necks of the poor dogs, the
victims would whine and cry and show plainly that they suffered.

“I know from experience that these small animals can be humanely
killed by the proper use of chloroform, and I know that the electrocution
of dogs and cats is very uncertain and is not at all humane. Indeed,
so uncertain have been the killings at this ‘Rescue Home‘ that the
driver of the wagon that hauls away the carcasses used to carry an ax

19

'i

/

,/

‘ -.-.,.._.2

A ':V '« '"Zijf'.77'!”ngI}.‘f-f:,:?£‘f¥f_?:rféffywzeL, 331'.“ ‘ 7:34; .f";;{*:‘ .1: far; A A a “3:, fa; ,«_j-;_:;-;sww::A?“ :r‘::i‘-’-*‘.“T:-' 1:11; . 2 r ;~ 3—17": :.:.,:....I.V;_.::..V.V_V.. «7:1; . 7. 1,1: ”7: -«z, :1: ~_ "'3’“ 7:2“ ,,. , _,_:.. j. A .., ; j" , e —.

 

 




 

 

on the wagon with which he said he knocked in the head those animalS
that came back to life before the wagon reached the works where the
bodies were ﬁnally disposed of.

“S0 terrible and unnecessary is the suﬁ‘ering inﬂicted upon the poor
helpless creatures at this so--called ‘Rescue Home’ that I think the
place should be known as what it truly is—a CRUEL SLAUGHTER-
HOUSE FOR UNF ORTUN ATE ANIMALS. I do hope that some-
thing can be done to stop the awful and unnecessary cruelty now practiced
in this place in the name of Kindness and H umanity/

“I am willing, if necessary, to testify at any time and place regarding
the cruelties above mentioned. .”

SUMMARY OF AGENTS’ REPORTS.
The following summary of agents’ reports for last year will show

 

the range of the ﬁeld work, but it does not cover the Society’s educationai‘

efforts, such as lectures and children’s camps and outings, or the thousands
of welfare acts of the individual members, of which no written record
is made.

ARRESTsw—Cruelty to animals, children, or adults ________________ 36
ADULTS-—
Discharged by employers for cruelties reported by ofﬁcers or
agents of this Society ___________________________________ 43
Drivers warned for cruel driving ___________________________ 1,108
Destitute 0r delinquent advised and helped _________________ 158
Placed in hospitals or sent out Of city ______________________ 31
Sundry investigations _____________________________________ 263,
ANIMALS-"'-
Horses left to starve or freeze, cared for ____________________ 158
Horses taken out of harness as unfit to work ________________ 705
Horses ordered shod or reshod ______________________________ 1,495
Horses tagged in absence of drivers ________________________ 950
Horses humanely killed ________________________________ L _ _ 378
Horses sent to hospitals ____________________________________ 191
Horses sent to country, unﬁt for city service _________________ 548
Horses inspected _________________________________________ 19, 969
Stables inspected, cleaned, or repaired _______________________ 71 I
Teams overloaded or otherwise abused, corrected ____________ 1,712,
Cruelties t0 cows, dogs, birds, cats, etc., corrected ___________ 221
Small animals humanely killed ____________________________ 416
Cats sent to the Refuge __________________________________ 349
Turkeys, chickens, etc.—number Of inspections (fowls involved,
20,025) _______________________________________________ I56
Sundry complaints investigated ____________________________ 2,37 I
CHILDREN—Abused, neglected, lost, homeless ___________________ 425
FAMILIES—
Abandoned or otherwise mistreated ________________________ 20
Destitute or sick, Visited and helped). _____________________ 90
SUNDRY NOTICES, REPORTS, CORRESPONDENCE WITH PERSONS AND
OTHER SOCIETIES ________________________________________ 3,317

20

 

 

 




 

 

While arrests are made only as a last resort, the court records
show that ﬁnes assessed in prosecutions brought by the Society’s agents
last year amounted to $1,470.00.

THE HORSES’ CHRISTMAS.
On December 25, 1909, this Society gave in Convention Hall the/
ﬁrst free Christmas dinner for horses, at which several hundred bags
of the best oats were distributed. But two years’ experience proved it
impossible, with any practicable method of distribution, both to reach
the most worthy cases and to eliminate much ﬂagrant abuse. N otwith-
standing all precautions, the shiftless, negligent, and designing owners
or drivers, instead of the needy horses, were the gainers, and little lasting
good was accomplished. Therefore, having abandoned the original
"hand out,” and having decided to establish a permanent Winter serv~
ice in which the horse could not fail to be the chief beneﬁciary, in
1915 we purchased a large motor-driven mechanical sand-spreader, which
has been the means of a great reduction in the number of painful and oft-
en fatal injuries to horses through falling on the ice-covered pavements
of our heavy trafﬁc—ways. During the past Christmas season this most
pragtjc‘al serviceﬂas greatly aided through the kind offices of our Board
ofqublic Works, which, on motion of W. E. Griﬁin, passed a resolution
commending the use of the sand-spreader. This service also has the
most hearty approval. of the Team-Owners’ Association and the Veter-
inarians, one of whom, our volunteer agent, Dr. Byrd, provides for the
spreader the most convenient housing. By such effective service, by
requiring delinquent owners to repair the leaky roofs and stop the cracks
of their stables, and to clean and amplify the stalls, and in many ways
to provide for the needs and comfort of their horses, rather than by the
free distribution of feed on one day in the year, our directors believe that
the faithful horse can best be blessed with the kind spirit of the loving
Shepherd who was cradled in a manger. But it still is and ever shall be
our practice, in all cases where the delinquent owner can not be made
to do his duty by his servant, and in those cases deemed worthy after
careful investigations by our agents, and also in all cases of abandon—
ment, to see that the horses are comfortably housed and are served with
‘prOper portions of Kornfalfa or oats and hay on Christmas day. And
this special feed on Christmas day we have named the Emma Robinson
Ration, in honor of one of this Society’s life members, upon Whose motion
this special ministration was originally undertaken. /
During the past Christmas season, over 100 blocks of ice-covered

pavement were sanded; 107 stables were inspected and cleaned or re-
paired; 1,511 horses were inspected; 205 were shod or reshod; 74 were
taken out of harness and ordered under care of veterinarians; 19 were
sent to the hospitals; 63 were sent to the country; 16 horses or mules,
abandoned to starve and freeze, were cared for; I 33 Robinson rations
were issued; and 24 poor creatures, for whom this life had proved too
heavy a burden, were kindly sent, we hope, to some well—earned land
of the Houyhnhnms, where the Yahoos shall not torture and where horses
shall be free. '

)f
(x

-.>;V:-‘*11-\' ﬁwyr'?‘:r,wwé"v“g - “,1; .'--:‘-., , ; “:13,“ A ”hf—<1 —,-- « .: __‘;-‘““" .. — r ‘ .:‘="‘:1- ‘ 2:1- . ., : 1 » m . .c .1»... . ._-.- . A. .m - <
“'v .‘1'._§.“ ’ ‘aJN.\:»T< _: ' 9‘ ,- ,- ’ _ . 1A , a. .. .1

~ 47 ":W q,

 

21

 




 

 

 

(Editorial, Kansas City J ourzzal.)
CHRISTMAS FOR HORSES.

The Christmas spirit should be all-pervading. In this great city there
are manifold avenues for ministering to the comfort and the happiness of
thousands and thousands of human beings at this season of good-will.
We think Of the condition of the men and women and boys and girls who
lack ordinary comforts which others more fortunate have in abundance,
and our hearts warm toward those who are able and willing to respond
to this unselﬁsh sentiment. ‘And this, of course, is of the ﬁrst importance.

Yet some thought should be bestowed upon those objects of human
solicitude that can neither express their need of help nor adequately show
their gratitude for it when given. A special call is being issued to the
citizens of this community in behalf of the horses that are cold and hungry
and ill-cared for. This appeal has enlisted the active support of many
philanthropic men and women whose humane sympathies are broad
enough to encompass all living things that feel and suffer. It has become
a practice of the Kansas City Humane Society to provide Christmas cheer
for the faithful beasts of burden whose contribution to the comfort and
happiness of human beings and whose work in behalf of the city generally
is never adequately recognized. *

This year, as usual, the Humane Society proposes to give intelligent
and systematic attention to horses that are underfed, badly stabled, or
whose owners are unwilling or unable to provide suitable blankets for
them. It is a work that calls for careful attention and watchful super-
vision, for it has been found that without personal attention, and that
of the right kind, the horses are seldom beneﬁciaries of well-intended
kindness on the part of generous givers. It has required unhappy ex-
perience to demonstrate that the real way to help horses is to do it through
men and women who make it their business to investigate the condition
of these animals all the year round, and who keep an accurate account of
the instances of abuse and neglect that come to their notice.

One of the worst ways of helping horses, or trying to help them, is to
dole out blankets and feedings of oats indiscriminately to owners. In
very many instances these blankets are sold or pawned or are used by
the owners in their homes. The Humane Society desires to get this re-
lief direct to the horses, and it has agencies for this work that are efﬁcient.
Therefore, anyone desiring to help the horses should not trust to their
own inexperienced good intentions, but Should exert their inﬂuence in the
way that it is certain to bring good results.

EXTRACT FROM STENOGRAPHIC REPORT OF THE HUMANE
SOCIETY’S ANNUAL SPRING MEETING IN
BEHALF OF OUR WILD BIRDS.

PUBLIC LIBRARY, APRIL TWENTY—FIFTH.

M r. Weeks: It is a humanitarian and economic duty to protect wild
birds and their nests, especially from all kinds of human molestation, and
to provide for them safe nesting-places, and drinking and bathing facil-
ities. It is also well to plant thickets of wild berry trees and bushes for
refuge and natural food in times of stress; but seldom, if ever, can our
provision of artiﬁcial food for wild birds be justiﬁed by humane or eco-
nomic considerations. A possible exception might be the quail on ex—
tremely rare occasions in winter; but even then, unless the feeding is
impersonally and unselﬁshly done, it would do the birds more harm'
than good.

Furnishing artiﬁcial food to wild birds is uneconomic, since it inter-

22

- ~ MAJ-an:

 




 

feres with the consumption of those multitudinous pests, which otherwise
would soon so multiply as to destroy all higher (i. (3., more useful) forms
of life; No creature is more independent than the wild bird. Even at
those times when for miles and miles all vegetation is cased in ice and
the ground is covered with snow, the bird has but to spread its wings
and, at twenty, ﬁfty, sixty, or one hundred miles an hour, speed south-
ward where his dinner awaits him, and Where, in its consumption, he
renders a divinely appointed service to the Southland.

Feeding wild birds is inhumane, since it tends to keep them in lati-
tudes and places for which they are not ﬁtted by Nature and interferes
with their most certain conservation by migration. It also tends to
lessen their independence and to substitute therefor a dangerous de-
pendence upon a fallible food—supply. It furthermore tends to give birds
an unsafe conﬁdence in man, which makes them an easy prey to the spoiler.

Man’s discharge of his duties to his present dependents, beasts of
burden and domestic animals (not to mention his own family), has not
been so intelligent and unselﬁsh as to justify his unnecessary assumption
of similar obligations toward other creatures. Certainly no mere human
pleasure in handling or feeding wild things as pets should be allowed to
interfere with their real good.

If by any chance it becomes necessary for man to feed his fellows
of ﬁeld and forest, he should endeavor to do so without their knowledge
and as a “special dispensation of Providence.” We may lack the grace
to be always thus unselﬁsh, but we can at least try to respect the safe—
guards With Which Nature seeks to preserve life. Let us not forget that
timidity, in addition to being one of our Wild brother’s sweetest charms,
is also his best protection.

THE HUMANE SOCIETY’S MUNICIPAL BAND OF MERCY.

Employees of the municipality (such as those in the departments of
Police, Parks, Fire, and Water) Whose duties call them into the streets and
public places in all parts of the city, and who are generally clothed with
authority to make corrections 0r arrests, furnish the most effective mem-
bership for a band pledged to prevent cruelty and to render ﬁrst aid in
cases needing humanitarian ministrations. A little well—directed effort
to inform such employees of the Wise and unselﬁsh aims of the Society
and to secure their kindly co—operation has been found to pay the best
of dividends in preventing unnecessary suffering and in promoting kindness
and good—will to man and beast.

Several years ago this Society formed what was, so far as we know, the
ﬁrst Municipal Band of Mercy, headed by the mayor, judges of the mu—
nicipal courts, public works boards, police commissioners, and made up
of the rank and ﬁle of the police, ﬁremen, and members of other branches

.. of the public service, each one of whom pledged himself in writingto try

to protect the helpless. Whenever a case requires further attention or
prosecution these men call on the Humane Society for assistance.

23

 

 




 

 

The current year’s pledge and a few of the signers are given below:

“We, the undersigned, hereby promise to try to be kind and to

/protect the children, the horses, and all helpless creatures frogn__b_ru\tal
w '

treatment.”

Geo. H. Edwards (Mayor).

J. A'. Harzfeld (Counsellor).

Fred W. Coon (Judge).

Joseph F. Keirnan (Judge).

G. W. Duvall (Council).

Amos Townsend (Council).

Walter M. Knoop (Council).

Frank Seely (Council).

E. E. Lower (Council).

John George (Council).

E. V. Simons (Council).

E. L. Winn (Council).

Charles P. Woodbury (Council).

Vale L. Nance (Council).

Allen T. Finnell (Council).

Joseph M. Burnett (Council).

E. J. McDonnell (Council).

John P. O’Neil (Council).

H. M. Fletcher (Council).

Harry Sandler (Council).

Geo. H. Teﬁt (Pres. Health Ed).

D. A. Murphy (Police Board).

J. F. Lumpkin (Police Board).

Wilbur F. Hall (Sec. Police Board).

H. W. Hammil (Chief of Police).

J. L. Ghent (Chief of Detectives).

Thos. P. Flahive (Captain No. I).

Peter McCosgrove (Captain N o. 1-).

Scott A. Godley (Captain N o. 2).

Patrick Clark (Captain N o. 3).

John J. Ennis (Captain No. 4).

D. J. Whalen (Captain No. 5).

John J. Casey (Captain No. 6).

R. L. James (Captain No. 7).

A. I. Talbot (Captain No. 8).

J. A. Jadwin (Captain No. 9).

Patrick Bray (Captain N o. 10).

George S. Jones (Supt. Pipe Lines,
Water Dept).

John C. Egner (Chief Fire Dept)

Alex Henderson (Asst. Chief Fire
Dept).

Curtis Hill (City Engineer).

Theodor Hansen (Asst. Dog Enu-
merator).

Fred A. Richardson (Commissioner
of Streets).

 

Eugene H. Blake (Comptroller).
Harry E. Barker (Treasurer).
W. C. Snyder (Auditor).
Robt. S. Stone (Assessor).

A. I. Beach (Council).

James H. Frame (Council).
C. 0. La Rue (Council).
Geoge L. Peterson (Council).
L. L. Adams (Council).

J. A. Boppart (Council).

W. E. Sullivan (Council).

S. S. 1\/Iadden (Council).
Emil Dorn (Council).

J. F. Ward (Council).

Isaac Reicher (Council).

John H. Speas (Council).

E. B. Harrington (Council).
John C. Bronaugh (Council).
George Harrington (Council).
W. F. Brown (Council).

George H. Edwards, Jr. (Mayor’s

Secretary) .

George W. Fuller (Park Board).
Allen J. Dean (Park Board).
William Bucholz (Park Board).

T. C. Harrington (Secretary Park

Board).

L. Oppenstein (Board Public Wks.).
Wentwor‘th E. Grifﬁn (Bd. Public

Works).

John R. Ranson (Bd. Public Wks.).
J. Pearce Kane (Secretary Board

Public Works).

Langston Bacon (Welfare Board).
Jacob Billikopf (Welfare Board).

H. R. Ennis (Welfare Board).

L. A. Halbert (Sec. Welfare Board).
W. W. Harnden (Fire and Water

Board).

E. I. Farnsworth (Fire and Water

Board).

John P. Tillhof (Fire and Water

Board).

R. W. Stalnaker (Secretary Fire and

Water Board).

W. H. Dunn (Supt. of Parks).

And many hundred policemen,
ﬁremen, and other outside men in
various departments of the public
service.

 

 




 

 

/'

HOW TO HELP. N

Encourage kindness 1n others by your commendation, your patronage \

and by your own example.

Practice the Golden Rule, not only toward your fellow—men, but also
toward your Wllow-creatures, especially those, like the horse
whose lives are devoted to your service.

When you see cases of abuse or neglect of children, helpless adults,
or animals, ﬁrst silently observe, then kindly exhort, and ﬁnally, if the
misguided mortal d9_es _not mend his ways, collect information as to the
case—time, place, names of offenders and names of witnesses, etc., and
call the Humane Ofﬁce, City Hall, either ’phone Main 1901.

5 Also, do not forget to send your dues or contributions to the Treasurer,
Wm. H. Seeger, Pioneer Trust Company, city. The Society employs no
solicitors, and no one but the Treasurer is authorized to receive its funds.

The ofﬁcers, committees, and many agents of the Society serve
Without compensation, and friends of the cause may rest assured that
their donations will be honestly and wisely expended.

The Treasurer reports all bills to January 1, 1917, paid, and a balance
of only $5.93 on hand, with which to meet the general expenses of the
current calendar year. The general expenses for 1916 (salaries of em-
ployees, postage, car-fare, printing, and ofﬁce and motorcycle incidentals)
were $3,417.76. Said sum, of course, does not include the cost of the
children’s outings in Swope Park, since, by the terms of the outing be-
quest, this fund can be used for but one purpose.

25

”.11
s. and "

-~“- -: .. 92:." :. : :v <2

efﬁﬁ :I—‘Fﬁaﬁq-ur— . .

"’.' ‘2 .F‘II‘“

urp .W. Wk. . W, T .4‘ r :2,._,.,,F..-y,_,,_~(_W‘ , , "JV—«3m; ,,'.. 7H .5,“
_,. ;;~,;.- 1-,... <_.;1.:....A. ._, .1.“ ' v. .. A / my 5;. .— . .5 .

—c

'f1YVW- _. Ji'ﬁkw .. .4 1.

5‘.
E
5
5
..
53
5..
s.
5“
5;?
5
5
5':
5
ill

’w. Jam". .-»~."‘:“< ':-_- "5.. 3'3? . .-'!,‘.E?.'.

a.

‘ ‘ ' ' .‘r' Lr'v’ﬁw v7v-wr-i'”“—"::m~: :5.PL:>€E?«2W§K::£§§'T*

 




 

"VV'

 

 




 

 
 




I ( 1 111‘

111111111. 14!} .1111

M. “.1 11? 1 1 V n (1 u: 1.1 1.1 {Li-In ‘1 .I’I».«1IU!;1J¢‘:J.

 

 




