02w (th 7W1
25 5-th

i llDLlFE TRADERS
Cll‘li llllllZEllF LAWS

l
, I,

{Butt lz'neoiters’ Suit in Miami,
FIL, l

2,. aﬁenges Federal Statute
{messing Foreign Rules

l
l

-1,‘ ' i 1: 2m: New York Times
‘i‘ttt satig ifs m When Richard '
Mi "ting-ti .vtarie ,‘tevenson decided to
, -- it.“ bird-imparting business,
.; o} :lmely with agents of the ,
» , int i and Wildlife Serv- l
«up». telephone calls and i
. recall, they were led l
lir'ii»..t;{l: :ji {rule of laws and treaties
egtiltttme {weigh trade in wildlife. ,
new, A, their business and im- i
1:?"w .t snipinents of Asian par-
‘s. will 4-11125. But last October :
tin“;titrw'lt' «.jonféscated 99 rare l
'-;>-.."j? "4~.-‘i~.,..2ttl-'.~\. and 28 grand
'. . I: ‘ i .. saving, theirshipment ‘
l
" ~- were strict/ted,” Mrs. Stevenson ; ,
"-‘-~xrvt:.~.wt,’ :~;.1ws. w smuggled.
. ,.;~'.,»_;:.i:; writ“ yuu tell the l
‘ tr'ii'w.incitivazice?” l
,w.. , . z-ll Federal wildlife ‘
» filt‘ tint/i=3 of law’s has led to l
. ~ ~ 5 widespread ,
.‘ .2». iv import exotic i
“’ .~:‘iti;.ii.\ thhfmt violat- ,‘
l
"in turn Must Be Heeded i
' .t ”ﬁlth of the confu-
‘ ' {1,-slil'l‘x" trouble, is the
lt‘ii :it the turn of the 1'
~ «.rtux-tut'mi in 1981 to make 5
.- ' lwieit-ii Wildlife laws a l
=. f Mr-rii‘an law 115 Well. The l
’ «',..‘.ign"ri-"2:i was cleared for l
t;: fvi.-titi_"y.‘£ltl, but the birds '
iitwiiﬂitfnlu, Wl‘tlt'h prohibits

l
l
.2 ".'t‘...‘.lv'i~; si‘ttimi their troubles i
i -r-z.zviwit in February by ,
, ~14 » thi‘ hittiS, valued at more
~ EM; ‘Mi, in exchangi- for $45,000.
it: :‘rtzii- liti'px" of recouping their
ill manly $300,1XX), according I
. ‘iit‘nmiiz, but they have sued
,. 3V)~K<‘i1‘1'3w2'i‘:l, (onteiiding that, be»
. ~ it» in . :"+~iwgii i‘ountries are l
. :H .. it)!" 1:: :i'>~;t‘t)‘/t.’f‘, the I
' ' ‘ mgw'itt'linixtll)’vague. I
l

2:» .n "sum 1 tell its what
‘ i:l‘~,'(il1(_‘(“,” Nil. Sit“
tituui, “With all the
:- litiw, i don't even
.v«:..i With the law."
an ml the attention'
- who support thelt
':t"‘4‘('lt‘l?s, who it
'.H~ m- lhr' tiifl'i
ilztt 'v'ziiiou
Putt laws.
l‘- x. t'," concerned -
Wildlife law: that (fan i t
wruiglnierit,” said Mar- l I
, ’Bi"l'tii totiiisel to the l
.t 1:1: 'iwivism‘) (lottnCii, a ;'

i‘J

fumai trsnie organization.
t::: “t (fhat'ee. Republi- l
. .3qu Wli’rlt‘ the 1981 l
“H 'l Jays the law l
total 9w significantly l
~:=« an; on trompliance I .
nth: removed. The ‘
, «um illegal im- ‘
midlife officials
giving; Wright 2': foreign coun-
t : ,zwt;;il:<t«_* trade across

_ t. a
x14‘

. :Qt:‘;.~-.w +4?th M importers ‘
‘ . wait :.1' these import- '
with ‘ Mr titiafee said.
- ‘ xi twlzar. k palm COCka-
lite Limited States
t of every kind of
' «.l L": ever y part of

 

~ . T’xllit‘lKV ‘in

' .u; the mime dif-

.. » July on a

ire; Qt. 7'». .5? j !' HT." =..:)mttﬂes
awn. t sort ti! ; «aw ' Wtuligtc laws,”
3-, a, Ht-‘i't'i :i ‘,"e‘e:"iitatian and
azi'ipintet' . t ;:~.< ~‘»‘lll’(€lt£llt.‘b‘ bring in
it ,;..5't!;tlntﬁ"«" Ii‘vr-t‘e’s no problem, and
t.t.:-:~ UAW Li: tar. ift:.g}t‘t'tt:t goes out [0
iii.» .‘sti'w‘vt? -- W- 'tiVi-i. '1?“ {lot accepting

 

 

all 4:. ’l-wif that

witziiiie Allthti'lers.

g; t 1;,’l"tt;‘lll {might be

._ ‘wi? 25;“: the same type

. - .;;9,tit not be (leared at

' said (Clark hi. Bavin,

.' i .iw-nrifw cement divxsion of
.«ut Wildlife service.

mit- e only ti inspectors
ti 1l'3jl'lg‘f‘ ports of entry for
v.;é«il:fe fund. although 80‘ countries
have .31gl‘f‘ii(i to standardize export per:
nuts and paperwork, as called for by an
international agreement, other coun~
mes, often: ' 1'.*’i"';i’3;-“7?i.w whose au-
' ‘ l_lt*tt:”l"i‘t"ttll(*}. Fed-
, .4 W

 

i‘i‘iiilst‘srt Had» an

it: li‘é}. 'ﬁlr'.“ Mini.“ :titls‘ »
twins-t7 ' writ-xi through the Unitt
$39.06.“: sari” iez'ome Smith, dePUty
t'h-ul' {2‘ 'l’li‘ l luv~o-i’itort‘ernent division.
'l'lw‘, may» ti'_-'-4.7l:at‘ij-(l to be. worth $11
miilir-n 21:»..if in:.i..xstry experts say the
true minw would be as much as two or
iii“ : tint: .5 that.

Near-t, 2mm; birds were legally im-
parted int-«nigh Miami last year, said
1w tin!» than, we.~t;erinarian with the
i‘vtii—‘t‘lil tit-guartriient of Agriculture.
h"r...t:ti it‘2t'w'1bf more birds than any
otl'izw A..Ya?"'-"iCiltl City, Mr. Bavin Of the
w: *1 ii I it: “:81 i ..;e said .

.:;.:_,me of the wnfosion could be elimi-
nated soon The World Wildlife Fund, a
nonprinit; t‘UﬂSEf'VatlUn group, is “put-
ting together, species by species, infor-
mation on what is coming into the coun-
try, where it’s coming from and if it’s
legal.” said Dr. Linda McMahan, who
dii‘t't'lf-l the organization’s trade moni-
t' ~; l.t§,{ pri‘egrzim. The first study, Of
l... s r-egulrtt ting the trade of wildlife in-
(lij-jenoiis in South and Central Amer-
im. is it; be made available within the
next. two weeks. .

that even with such information, said
M ,~ Files/H's at the pet industry council,
iiiatxiiiert. t'night still have difficulty
tempts/ins; with the law. “You cannot
gi‘. » .a t-tgwwui guideline on many of
”It" ﬁbula-Ls," 9'2: Enid. “I'd de it’s HOt
guessing” to if." it; tilifi business without
iwiiiu in mutation of some law every
day l

 

1

 




 

nOrC>>w_>-Q_~mmZm IC>>> m MOO—miowoinu/

OJ
.C

 




iﬁew York Times

229 West 43rd Street
New YOrk, NY 10036
ﬂea To the Editor:

A recent article, "Shops Where the Birds Chat with the Customers"
(September 7), discussed the new state law which bans, under regulation,
the sale of wild birds in New York. Aimed at the pet industry, which
imports approximately ‘750,000 wild—caught perrets, finches, macaws,
toucans and other birds each year, the bill is the first step ever taken
by either state or federal authorities to curb this trade. Enormous
mortality of these birds eccurs from capture onward - four or more die
for every one arriving alive at the pet store. Moreover, drastic deple-
tions have pushed many bird species into the endangered category from
over-harvesting. Just since 1980, 575,862 birds have died in quarantine
stations in the U.S. or in transit from export countries. Over the past
eight months I have been compiling data from U.S. Department of Agricul—
ture quarantine formk;on mortality, and they make very depressing reading.
Although the article hinted at these aspects of the pk pet trade, its
main thrust seemed to be a consumer's guide to buying a parrot, even
giving addresses and phone numbers of pet stores.

One would never know from reading the article that support came
from conservationists all over the world for this landmark bill, and

that both the legislature and the Governor wished to alleviate the:

pxxbﬁnmxx negative effects of the trade in wild birds through the

. j M. A L . .
bill's objectives of limiting thlliuuih to captive—bred birds. Governor

u’ . . .
Cuomo stated upon signing the bill: She intent of this bill is to prohibit
the sale of wild birds in New York Stae and, therefore, to remove the

state from the market now served through the importation of wild birds.

Underlying this intent is the belief that pOpulations of wild bids now
/

 




Moreover, a computer listing of foreign laws is maintained by the
International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN) at their
headquarters in Switzerland and a cooperative_exchange of legal infor—
mation between Fish and Wildlife *ervice and the IUCN could facilitate

enforcement of ferric“ laws.

8. \Consideration should be given to the possibility of permitting

only non-commercial and captive-bred birds to enter the country. The
trade in wild birds involves huge mortality from capture to retail sale
and beyond, and many birds have become rare as a direct result of the
trade. The United States condones the trade by continuing to allow
imports of wild birds. Even strict enforcement of foreign laws will

not end transshipment of protected birds unless trade bans are enacted
by nearly every country in the world.) The costs of inspection and
prosecution of the lacey Act are borne by the American taxpayer allowing
bird dealers to become wealthy at the direct expense of the taxpayer and

the world's bird species.

 




endangered or threatened will be saved and that inhumane practices
used.in the birds' capture and transport will be discouraged, if
these biﬁs are unsaleable in our market.”

Instead the Eimgg article stressed the possible financial
hardship that xxx could result to pet dealers. Their major complaint
involves the loss of cockatoos, macaws and amazon parrots because
these birds bring the highest profit margin. A Blue and gold
macaw might bring a Bolivian who traps it in the wild $10 or less,
and exporters may charge only $50 per bird. Through markups

along the way, the cost ends up at $2000 to the pet store customer.

All the traders along the way have accrued profits of 850% or more

OR.
with little or no expenditure on their part othefzkhan‘bird seed

and cages. Even with a high mortality, traders can reap substantial
profits, including those at the pet store level, and such profits

are not available from captive-bred birds. At present these large
parrots are not being bred in large numbers in captivity. They
require a large amount of space, expensive,heavy steel cages and
pairs produce only one or two young a year. By contrast, budgerigars,
cockatiels, lovebirds and many small finches can be bred in large

quantities and require much less expensive breeding facilities.

Isn' t it time though 'umrww.‘,d_ri; ' .
who Lmﬂduohamsgbfq . ‘
for the consumer to become educated to his role in tfif fJZE;

“Wdrwﬁwmu

ing~was—banned
MW” W W‘t/LW W

ter rofits, :F _ “mu—.2 rat“ 9
Raw " AWM/ A” W

0 ES— . .

Just as—%he Whalers were steadily

 

wiping out the whales, the bird trade is wiping out wild birds,

and the trade is destined to end no matter what. This legislation

can pemmit private breeders of birds to produce healthy, non-
stressed birds for the cage bird trade that do not represent irre-

 




4. Closed bands should be required for all Captive-bred birds

entering the country except canaries, budgerigars, cockatiels and
Zebra finches, all species bred in large numbers in captivity and
not traded in their wild forms.

5. All birds imported from countries to which they are not native
should be accompanied by certificat;d if m.Tgin from their native
countries readily verifiable by import personnel.

6. U.S. Department of Agriculture's Animal and Plant Inspection
Service should send quarantine forms l7-13 to local Fish and Wildlife
personnel when birds are released from quarantine so that species,
and mortality can be verified and entered onto the 3-177. At present,
the 3-l77's usually list the birds imported without noting those that
were dead on arrival or that died in quarantine.

7. COpies of foreign laws should be maintained at all ports of
entry provided by the central office of the Fish and Wildlife Servi-e's
law enforcement division in Washington, DC. Tn several recent instances,
the facé that such laws were not in possession of import agents has
meant that foreign laws were not enforced. Paraguay, for example,
prohibited all wildlife exports in 1977, yet did not enforce its own
lav and continued to export birds. Copies of their law were made avail-
able to import agents after several years of illegal imports, and
shipments began to be refused entry. Paraguay then ceased shipping
birds to the U.S. Likewise, Indonesia protected the Sulphur—Crested
Cockatoo in l973 but until the law was translated by Justice Department
lawyers several years later, these birds continued to be imported; as
a matter of fact they have not been seized in many instances (see

attached list). The computer system of the Fish and Wildlife Service

which enters imports directly upon receipt of the 3-l77‘s should now

alert personnel in the Washington, DC office of any illegal imports.

 




trievable losses to wild bird pOpulations, and massive mortality

and suffering by these birds as they are transported, usually
in crowded, filthy cages from dealer to dealer. In 3/ the long
run, both the American consumer and bird breeders will profit

from this legislation.

Sincerely,

 




3-177 forms were filed upon entry. The Fish and Wildlife Service person-
nel would then have 30 days or more to examine the forms and ascertain
legality of shipments. A reference book such as Clement‘s Birds gﬁ the

ﬁgrld: é Checklist, which lists all birds species of the world and their

 

distributions, should be available to all import personnel to make their
task easier.

Another problem inherent in the present system of bird impoﬁbtion
is that many importers claim that protected birds they imported were
raised in captivity. It is possible to differentiate captive-bred birds
from wild-caught ones by the use of closed bands. These bands can only
be attached before the bird is two weeks old. Theoretically they could
be placed on wild—caught nestling birds, but special numbering systems
and proof of breeding facilities could screen out such cases.

The continued importation of protected birds from countries such as
‘Singapore, Belgium and West Germany should be stopped by bequiring certi-
ficates of origin which could be verified by contacting the origin country,
especially if that country was a CITES member. .

It is recommended that:

l. U.S. Fish and wildlife Service personnel be contacted by U.S.D.A.
or vice-versa within days upon receiving notification of a bird shipment
to learn the dead on arrival figures. Ideally, the number of import
agents should be increased dramatically so that each shipment could be
examined upon importation.

2. Humane regulations pertaining to transport mortality should be

promulgated immediately to curtail the present unacceptably high numbers

of birds found dead on arrival at U.S. ports of entry.
3. 3-177 forms should be required to be filed the day birds are imported

and examined by Fish and Wildlife personnel carefully for the presence

of protected species well before the birds are released from quarantine.

 




 
  

       

~~‘.‘_

Ix) Ln '0
rerJH

IQ (“hi
I

U! W '
O)‘1

O
-WHML ‘

     
       
  
 
    
   
      
 

STATE OF NEW YORK
EXECUTIVE CHAMBER
ALBANY l 2 2 2 4

   

   

xsugust 6, 1984

filed with Assembly Bill Number 11589, entitled:

   

”“N ACT to amend the environmental
#137 conservation law, in relation to
(Chapter 981) sale of live wild birds"

   
    
    
    
  
   
    
  
  
 
  
   
   
   
 
 
 
  
   
 
   
   
 
 
  
   
 
    
   
  
    

~—_~—‘_-

The intent of this bill is to prohibit the sale of
wild birds in New York State and, therefore, to remove the
State from the market now served through the importation of
wild birds. Underlying this intent is the belief that
populations of wild birds now endangered or threatened will
be saved and that inhumane practices used in the birds'
capture and transport will be discouraged, if these birds
are unsaleable in our market. The bill will be effective
November 1, l 85.

In the past session, I have actively participated
in the development and enactment of legislation to reinforce
the statutory prohibition of animal fighting. In the 1983
legislative session, I approved legislation to increase the
penalties associated with the taking of threatened or
endangered species. When implemented by regulations of the
Department of Environmental Conservation, this bill will
build on these earlier efforts to foster the important
objectives of humane an .al troatmen and protection of
threatened or endangered species.

Veterinarians and others concerned with the health
of domestic bird populations and zoological interests which
depend on wild birds to support their scientific work have
expressed some concerns with this bill. These valid
concerns, however, may clearly be accomodated through the
regulations which the Department will issue to implement
this legislation.

The bill's sponsors have weighed the importance of
these regulations and left the Department over a year to
canvass all groups interested in the bill and to prepare
regulations to refine the bill's bro d expression of
legislative intent.

The South Shore Audubon Society, Saratoga Animal
Welfare League, the Humane Society of New York, the Bolivian
Wildlife Society, the Animal Retreat ans unmag- Cnciety'
Inc., the National Audubon Society, the Fund for Animals,
the Audubon Wildlife Advisory Committee, the Environmental
Planning Lobby, Hildcare, the New York City Audubon Society,
the Sawmill River Audubon Society, the Columbia-Greene
Humane Society, American Humane, the Massachuettes Audubon
Society, the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals, the Humane Society of RocheSter & Honroe County,
and the World Society for the Protection of Animals
recommend approval of this bill.

The bill is approved.




REGINALD HARDY mmmm

LLANTILIO CHOESL’v-w
ABERGAVENNY

. GWENT NP7 81H
Overseas Represematwe UNITED KINGDOM

Founder and

Telephone

BOLIVIAN WILDLIFE SOCIETY 060085 388
(PRODENA BOLIVIA)

TeIex

497497 'PRODEN G‘

EUL804 28 August 1984

Ms Greta Nilsson
POBox 2814
RESTON

VA 22090

USA

Dear Greta

If I may call you that. Thank you so much for your interesting letter of 15
August which I feel I must acknowledge, even if only briefly, before I leave
for Namibia tomorrow.

I will reply in more detail when I return, but meantime I would like you, if
possible, to send the data you have compiled on Bolivian birds to our Presi—
dent:

Dr Armando Cardozo
PRODENA BOLIVIA
Casilla 989

LA PAZ

Bolivia

and if you could also send him a copy of 'The Bird Business', so much the bet—

ter. He should have as much ammunition as possible as the fight is nowhere near
finished. The Wildlife Traders, like the Pet Industry at your end, are marshal—
ling their forces.

I feel you might like to know that the Red—fronted Macaw (Ara rubrogenys) has
by no means disappeared, in fact it is very common. It seems that when the
count was—deﬁe which led to it being listed on Appendix—I was carried out, it
was during the rainy season when it is very difficult to find them. In fact
there is a move afoot within Bolivia to try and have it returned to Appendix—II
although I do not think it will get that far.

 

The Caninde Macaw (Ara Caninde) is said to be plentiful in the Amboro area near
Santa Cruz which was, I am happy to say, declared a National Park last week. We
will now be able to protect them as they fetch up to $16.000 each in the US.

 

Forgive me for making my reply so short, but I will revert after studying the
data as soon as I get back from Namibia end—September. Meantime I enclose a
copy of my Comunicaciones—S and confirm that you are now on my mailing list.

ncer ly

:ﬁ
REGIN LD/BARﬁ§//‘

’///’

 




I‘ll/ES tie-Lo (‘I

1953

Wrat’s that bird?A guide to British birds P. Hayman& M. Evere t( 1.982) RSPB, Sandy,

56 pp.

Tout en reconnaissant la valeur irrempla-
cable d’ouvrages comme ceux de Peterson,
Heinzel et autres Singer, j’ai souvent regretté
les attitudes ﬁgées, voire stéréotypées des 01-
seaux dans ces ouvrages; d’autre part, les plu-
mages des femelles, des immatures ou des ma-
les en dehors de la période nuptiale n’y sont
pas sufﬁsamment illustrés.

C’est dire 1e plaisir quej’ai eu a consulter

ce livre peu épais - 56 pages et 113 especes; les
dessins, de tres bonne qualité, «saisissent» en
effet l’oiseau dans des attitudes caracteristi-
ques ou encore le décrivent dans ses plumages
successifs. Quant au texte, il est tres court,
mais est entierement centre sur l’identiﬁca-
tion. En resume, ce livre est a recommander
vivement aux ornithologues. CI

Bird problems in agriculture, E.N. Wright, I.R. Inglis & C.J. Feare (1980). Lamport

Gilbert Printers LTD, London, 210 pp.

Ce livre regroupe les comptes-rendus des
communications présentées a la conference
«Understanding Agricultural Bird Problems»
tenue a l’université de Londres en avri11979. 11
est divisé en quatre partieszdes considera-
tions générales — les Etourneaux en tant que
pestes agricoles - comment éloigner les oi-
seaux - les répulsifs chimiques. Deux commu-

nications sur l’Etourneau y furent presente'es
par J. Tahon et R.F. Verheyen. Ce livre con-
tient de multiples renseignements qui interes-
sent 1e protecteur. Les oiseaux sont mis ici au
banc des accuses mais ne faudrait-il pas plutot
s’interroger sur certaines pratiques agricultu-
rales actuelles et leurs consequences sur de
nombreuses especes d’oiseaux? AR

The bird business, a study of the commercial cage bird trade G. Nilson (1981). Ed. Ani—
mal We1fare Institute, Washington, 2d ed., 122 pp.

Ce livre est important pour le protecteur
des oiseaux car 11 revele le traﬁc d’oiseaux et
d‘animaux qui subsiste malgré les le’gislations
restrictives et ce en 1981! Ce récit fourmille de
details sur les me’thodes de capture et sur les
quantites prélevées. Ainsi, plus de quatorze
millions d‘oiseaux ont été importés aux
U.S.A. entre 1901 et 1942 et3.700.000 pendant
la période 1968 - 72. 115 proviennent de partout
mais surtout de ,Bolivie, du Mexique, du Pé-
rou, d’Uruguay, du Senegal, d’Afrique du Sud.
Les importations de 1979 aux U.S.A. (un total
de 475.881 oiseaux) venaient de tous les conti-

Le monde merveilleux des oiseaux, M. & J.

Arts, Paris, 240 pp.

Volume destine au grand public. 11 abor-
de tous les sujets ayant trait £1 l‘ornithologie et
a la protection des oiseaux et de la nature. ll est

248

nents, 52 pays dont la Belgique pour 24.790 oi-
seaux! La Belgique qui, on le sait, est pour
l’EurOpe une des plaques tournantes du traﬁc
d’animaux.

La mortalité est estimée a 45 -50% mini—
mum lors de la capture et du premier trans-
port, a quoi il faut ajouter la mortalité lors du
transport vers le pays importateur... Des ima-
ges réalistes illustrent bien, sans aucune com-

? plaisance. le sort atroce réservé a cesjoyaux de

la nature.
Un livre précieux pour ceux qui s’inté-
ressent a la «Bird Connection». AR

Dossenbach (1981). La Bibliotheque des

illustré de magniﬁques photographies qui ne
laisseront pcrsonne insensiblc. DE

 




Board of Trustees

George L. Gildred

President
John M. Thornton
First Vice President

H. Sheldon Campbell
Second Vice President

Betty Jo F. Williams
Secretary

A. Eugene Trepte
Treasurer

J. Dallas Clark
Ivor deKirby
Bill L. Fox

Lt. Gen. V. H. Krulak.
USMC (Rel)

Lee S. Monroe. MD.
Robert J. Sullivan
Milton G. Wegeforth

Trustees Emeritus
Anderson Borthwick
Howard L. Chernoff

E. Minton Fetter. M.D.
Lester T. Olmstead
John P Scripps

Charles L. Bieler
Executive Director

Post Ofﬁce Box 551, San Diego, California 92112
Telephone (714) 231-1515

Cable Address: SDZOO San Diego, California, USA.

Zoological Society of San Diego

Ms. Maria Gulino

Admin. Ass't.

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P.0. Box 3650
Washington, DC 20007

Dear Ms. Gulino,

I have just received the copy of The Bird Businsess that
you sent us.

I have turned the copy over to our Curator of Birds,
Dr. Arthur Risser, Jr. He was very much looking forward
to its publication.

I understand that we have received a c0py for the library
and that others have been ordered.

Again, thank you for supplying it to us. Please let me
know if we can be of future assistance to you in your
many worthwhile projects.

Photographic Librarian

2/AprilI/981

\

 




DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY

U.S. CUSTOMS SERVICE
WASHINGTON

MAR 171981 REFER TO
INV 7 B:IV:G HSW
Ref: The Bird Business —
A Study of the Commer-
CiaI Cage Bird Trade

Ms. Christine Stevens
President

AnimaI WeIfare Institute
P.0. Box 3650
Washington, D.C. 20007

Dear Ms. Stevens:

Pursuant to discussions between yourseIf and staff members
of the Genera] Investigations Division, Office of Investigations,
I wish to thank you for your generous offer to provide (at no cost)
the U.S. Customs Service, Office of Investigations with 600 copies
of the puincation entitIed ”The Bird Business - A Study of the
CommerciaI Cage Bird Trade by Greta NiIsson.” I feeI that this

puincation wiII be beneficiaI to investigative personneI as weII
as various other Customs personneI.

If this office may be of further assistance, pTease contact
the Director (Acting), GeneraI Investigations Division (566—5104).

Sincerer,

‘ﬂhartin J. White

a Director
Office of Investigations

REPLY TO: COMMISSIONER OF CUSTOMS.V~’ASH1NGTON, D C. 23229

 




tute.'

ti

Ins

ﬁrﬂé‘i 4
~:,. . 5-:

and staff‘%;

3%
be

”'0
L‘.
C
311]
%n

’1
is
is
‘9-

at
r
J

i:
v&ri.

(

i

I
'1‘
”3‘1.

4-»-

L

.5 cg‘
; L;
I

O
I
e
n“
Wu
G
. 3
ml.
3‘.
“.4;
5
«up
0
t
S
. Nu
rv.
n... _

wen
‘35 i“)
f €213 affice may ha of fart~“

Pi
:9

(ﬁctin.

), ﬁesera3 {ﬂy

Siacere1y,

1te
astfx

O

E;

:8:

3T

tract
foiae 0? law:

ﬁ*rtin J.
E

gaticnsk

‘0

{3&13;81

41¢]

HSgEiﬁTﬁéUS

 




Todays Animal News

Fall issue

# That ‘CBargairi’ Bird!

 

BUYING BARGAIN BIRDS IS
OFTEN COSTLY

M s. “R” recently made the buy of a
lifetime. At a swap meet—flea
market in Spring Valley, she bought
two half moon conures and a red—eyed
lory for a tiny fraction of the prices
quoted at pet shops. Only one pro-
blem. All three birds died within a
week.

Not much she could do about it
either. All she knew about the
salesperson was the girl’s name, Jean.
She had no receipt for the cash pur-
chase.

The dead birds were sent to a
poultry disease diagnostic laboratory
in San Diego for testing. The
laboratory report came back—exotic
Newcastle disease, a foreign virus
disease of poultry and pet birds.

United States birds do not have this
disease. Quarantine programs run by
the US. Department of Agriculture
(USDA) made sure that all legally im-
ported birds are free of the disease
before being allowed into the country.

Conclusion, the birds bought at
bargain prices were probably smuggl-
ed into the country.

Ms. R had no other birds at home,
so the disease “stopped” with her
three bargains. How different the story
could have been if she had had an
aviary of healthy birds. They would
have become infected with the highly
contagious disease.

Or, had she lived in a poultry raising
area, those bargain birds could have
been the start of another exotic
Newcastle disease epidemic, like the
one that devastated southern Califor-
nia in the early 1970’s. That outbreak

 

AND THAT’S NO BULL!!!
JOHN’S
DAIRY SUPPLY
1305 Petaluma Blvd. No.
762-8470

0 Veterinary supplies
0 Swimming pool chemicals
0 Garden supplies

 

 

 

caused the death or destruction of
some 12 million birds, mostly laying
hens. It cost taxpayers about $56
million to eradicate the disease.

With nothing more to go on than a
hazy description of “Jean,” it’s doubt-
ful that federal or state veterinarians
will be able to find this individual, the
source of her birds or any others that
she may have sold. Bird lovers can on-
ly hope that any other birds she sold
died in private homes. Void of other
birds, buried in a backyard or sanitary
landfill, such birds cease to be a
dangen

Exotic Newcastle disease is not
usually a human health hazard. It is
harmless to consumers of eggs or
poultry meat. However, people handl-
ing infected birds have developed mild
eye infections, which should be
treated by a physician.

According to state-federal
veterinarians trying to stop outbreak of
bird diseases in California, people of-
fered birds at suspiciously low prices
can help themselves by avoiding pur-
chasing such birds. Further, they can
help stem the flow of smuggled birds
by getting as much information as they
can about people offering such bird
bargains—license plate numbers,
descriptions of vehicles, etc—and con-
tacting the US. Customs Service
director of investigations

Exotic birds make great pets.
Healthy exotic birds make even better
pets. To really enjoy a pet bird, be sure
that you buy a healthy one. It will live
a lot longer than Ms. R’s bargain.

 

CHECK YOUR

Y“
o.

'4 LABELQ

Does your address label'
have the name of a veteri-

nary hospital on it? If so,

that hospital has selected

you to receive a compli-

mentary subscription to -
Todays Animal News!

It is your veterinarian’s
way of providing you with
vital information about
your pet’s health and care
— and at the same time
expressing appreciation
for your patronage. A

 

 

 

 

$5.9. %

ETIUTTI E R

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




December 12, 1980

Mrs. Annabelle Stockton de Dod
Museo Nacional de Historia Natural
Plaza de la Culture

'Cesar Nicolas Penson

Santo Domingo

DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

Dear Mrs. de Dod:

Ambassador del Rosario very kindly brought the beautiful'book on
the birds of the Dominican Republic, and thank you for the delight~
ful inscription which you wrote. Although, regrettably, I cannot
read Spanish. I have found it most interesting to look through

the book and see on the maps where each species lives. Congratu—
lations on this excellent work:

Thank you, too, for the slide and photograph. we plan to repro«
duce the slide in the color section of the book. It arrived just
in time for this purpose, and.we are very grateful.

It is good to know that you still have a better populatiOn of
parrots than any other island in the west Indies, but I am sorry
to hear of the hunting of the parrots on the pretext that they
harm crops or because people consider it sport to kill them..
What is being done to prevent the cutting and burning down of
nest trees? Is this illegal?

As soon as the new edition of The Bird Business is completed, we
'will. of course, send you a copy. Your name is being given as

the source of the lovely picture of the Hispaniolan parrots. If
we can be of any assistance to you in your educational work, please
let us know. - i

with kind regards,
Sincerely,

 




Museo NAciONAl dc Hi

,r ,

STORI

O
A
":2

C

x) ‘J ‘4‘

\

.«z 'y’» r ‘2

I
n 7‘
~_ x/ J

.. -,.

— v
.

V
w
n
U
V
I

. “a.“

Santo Domingo, Rep. D
: 689-0106/09
WWQ [@2an

C .

.3,

Teléfonos

PLAZA DE LA CULTURA
César N icolés Penson

in

ommicana

 

Jogéé

 




Compliments
of the
Island Resources Foundation

 

Red Hook Center Box 33
St. Thomas, U.S. Virgin Islands 00801

 




C c;-
..
% g:§‘ui'&.¢"' :} if} ,5.

._ a
A“ 9 ’
‘ ff .! 14.44:, 2
"s, ‘ \ ’ U 4»

 

 

CASA AGRICOLA AVlCENTRO DEL CARIBE
Bo. Marias Car. 402, Ramal Ajies Anasco ﬁt
PO. Box 644, Anasco, PR. 00610 '
Tel. 809-826-2484
Open 7 days a week 9:00 am. - 4:30 pm.

Why pay more for birds, when you can order direct from us. We are Breeder-
importer of many varieties of exotic birds: Pheasants, Peafowls, Parrots, Macaws,

Cockatoos, Parakeets, Finches, Quails, Doves, Canaries, Waterfowl, Swans and
Geese. We ship ive dei .ivery guaranteed'continental U.S.A. and U.S. Virgin Islands

Biue & G0Id Macaws ‘ $775. Greenwing Macaws $850.
African Gray Parrots $400. Scarlet Macaws ~ - -~ $1500-
Red Lored Amazon Parrots ' $450. ' YeIIow Naped Amazon Parrots $750.
Yeziow Crown Amazon Parrots $400. Orange Wing Amazon Parrots $165.
Indian Greater HiI. Mynahs ’ $275. Double Yellow Head Parrots $400.
Blue India PeanWIs $160. pair White Peafowas — $210. pair
Pied Peafow:s $250. pair - BiaCk Shomder Peafowls $175. pair
Spamding PeafOWIs $375. pair Java Green PeafOWIs $475. pair
Goiden Pheasants $90. pair Siiver Pheasants ' $90. pair
Lady Amherst Pheasants , $90. pair ~ Reeves Pheasants $100. pair

 

For cata og on birds, reptii es, fish and animals send $2. 75 (U. S. money order) to:
Migue .A. FeIiciano, P. O. Box 644, Anasco, P. R. 00610. ; ' . -

. ::I¢-_' _ Q1 ,‘.1 .‘"'

... .. ' '1‘, r p -0
.,-<(..; I l-t‘ -‘-' ." 2" (5‘; ‘-t"
h. K O ’

"Syn-74,43. D524, 9&4»? N415! I0 S/r/

 




@112 ﬁlmmt ﬁrm-iii
MIAMI, FLA.
D. 398.415 SUN. 509,100:

%/a

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




lame it all on Fred, the wiseacre

cockatoo who upstaged TV’s

detective “Baretta.” He answered
the phone for his pal, shucked peanuts,
danced, tossed off one-liners and flared his
regal sulfur crest on cue.

Fred became a star. Suddenly everybody
wanted a talking bird, and prices took off.
So did the black market.

Today birdnappers strike with gloved
hands and expert selection: in the Amazon
rain forests, poaching fuzzy macaw
hatchlings from their treetop nests; on the
Rio Grande, crossing by night with a
half-dead cargo of Yellow-head Parrots; at
the Metrozoo or Dreher Park in West Palm
Beach, cage-robbing with wire cutters and
burlap bags.

South Florida not only is the drug
smuggling capital of America, it is also a
prime port for a less-publicized contraband
— delicate, valuable, and alive. Birds.

Federal agents in Miami are now
completing one of the US. Justice
Department’s most complex bird-smuggling
investigations. The targets are several
Miami-area parrot importers, and sources
say the first indictments will be issued
within weeks.

While crooked bird dealers use forgery
and phony documents to bring 1n parrots by
the planeload at Miami International
Airport, old- fashioned burgars cash 1n on a
smaller scale, fencing feathered loot one at a
time to unscrupulous pet store owners.

Among South Florida pet shops and bird
warehouses, thefts are epidemic. At The
Aviary in Lauderdale Lakes, birdnappers
popped the locks and abducted the store’s
most valuable tame birds: a cockatiel, a
Blue-and-Gold Macaw, a Military Macaw, a
Green-wing, a gabby Scarlet named Charlie
and a tiny, affectionate Severe Macaw ,
named Bobo.

Losing Charlie and Bobo was the final
straw for owners Don and Rita Pennington,
who quit the retail bird business 1n grief and
disgust 1n July.

“Bobo would sleep right in the bed with
us,” Don recalled. “He’d cuddle up and put
his head on your shoulders.”

Recovering a stolen bird is almost
impossible because one specimen is so often
indistinguishable from another. “If it’s a car

 

CARL H/AASEN is a Miami Hera/d staff writer.

1" I“

 

he profiteers

get them drunk
on tequila,
death-march them
through deserts,
stuff them 1n to
tubes of Russian
toothpaste, strap
them 1n to tiny
strait jackets

and hide 1
them under

sombreros.
Then they bury
the dead ones
in the kitchen

garbage disposal.
—

with a serial number, that’s one thing. A
bird with no identification is something
else,” says South Florida wildlife importer
Dr. Bern Levine.

Prime targets are the rare exotics and
prolific talkers. These are the big birds with
flair, personality and, not least of all, a
stupendous price tag: the Hyacinth Macaw
(up to $8,000 retail), the endangered Black

”5“

 

 

HIAASEN

Palm Cockatoo ($10,000), the resplendent
Scarlet Macaw ($2,800) or the Toco Toucan
($2,000).

“If you were a thief, wouldn’t you take a
chance on a $10,000 bird?” asks Agent John
Cross of the US. Fish and Wildlife Service.
“It’s a lot easier to fence than a diamond
ring.”

llegal parrots arrive in this country
with forged documents, or as hidden
cargo —— bound, gagged, blindfolded,
sometimes stoned on tequila-spiked
cornmash. They come in hubcaps, inner
tubes, hats, suitcases, women’s
undergarments, hollowed-out loaves of
bread, whisky boxes, and hair curlers.
“I’ve seen ’em cooked in the engine
compartments of cars,” says Customs
Agent Carl Sundstrom of California. “It’s a

Photograph by Bruce Gilbert

A tame

Rose—breas ted
Cockatoo. These birds
are native to Australia,
where their export is
prohibited.

 




nasty business.” if
The Animal Welfare Institute repOrts

that nearly 3.2 million birds were legally:

imported into theUnited States from
1976 through 1981. More than half Were
Psittacines, members of the parrot
family that includes parakeets, conures,
cockatoos, cockatiels, and macaws.

Miami is a major port of entry for
parrots and macaws from South and
Central America. The US. Department
of Agriculture, which monitors 15 bird
quarantine stations in Dade County,
estimates that about 250,000 birds
legally enter the country here every
year.

Conservationists warn that this bird
boom is decimating wild parrot
populations and could soon lead to the
extermination of several species,
including the Scarlet Macaw, the
Red—fronted Macaw and the Double
Yellow-head Amazon Parrot.

From wild bird specialist Greta
N ilsson, a longtime critic of the import
industry: “The facts are overwhelming.
The sheer volume of the trade is too
much for the wild populations.”

Last year the Convention on
International Trade in Endangered
Species decided that parrots needed
special protection, and added the
Psittacine species to an international
treaty that regulates animal exports.
Some parrot dealers denounced this
action as unnecessary and misguided,
but the treaty is quickly gaining
signatories among bird-supplying
countries.

Smuggled birds often come from
places where the underground
Polly-want-a-passport business thrives
on corruption. The trade rises and falls
with the American economy, as does the
cage-bird business in general.

 

In Mexico, baby Yellow-head Amazon ‘

Parrots are removed frOm their nests by
children, who hawk them to bird bro-
kers for as cheaply as $8 a head, By the
time the parrot turns up on a perch in

an American pet store, the price tag can .

be $500.

If the bird survives the trip. Even in
legal shipments, mortality rates can be
staggering. In 1981, about 650,000 birds
were imported into the United States.

_ Of those, more than 25,000 were dead

on arrival; nearly 83,000 did not survive
the 30-day minimum stay in quarantine.
For smuggled birds, the death rate is
often much higher. .

But the risk is worth it because 1
profits are high. Fred is off the air, but
the bloom isn’t off the bird.

According to National Wildlife.
magazine, legal parrot sales in the
United States have reached $300 million
a year. Actor Robin Williams, publisher
Hugh Hefner, singer K.C. of the
Sunshine Band and Mrs. Muhammed

.Ali are among the country’s notable

parrot patrons. »

The attraction is obvious. The birds
are radiantly plumed, intelligent,
amusing and — when properly tamed —
affectionate . . . well, as affectionate as
anything with a scythe-like beak can be.

But parrots can also be noisy,
temperamental, vicious and
phenomenally destructive. Owners tell

horror stories of fierce birds that

unrelentingly chew through
wrought-iron cage bars, strip the
teakwood paneling from a wall, or
randomly attack the family dog.

Macaws, for example, can be good
talkers. They also do an uncanny
impression of a woman shrieking; the
birds frequently practice this trick very
early in the morning.

 

 

 

toothpaste.

Illegal Cuban Finches also were hidden in hollow tubes of Russian ’

 

 

Cuban MelodioUs Finches concealed in the false crown of a ' hat. The
birds were smuggled out of Havana but seized at Miami In ternational
Airport. '

Courtesy of USDA

 

Caged for long periods of time,
parrots idly gnaw at anything in reach.
When the US. governmentodonated a
seized shipment of 55 cockatoos to the
Jacksonville Zoo two years ago, curators
made the mistake of housing the-birds
in a converted railroad boxcar.

Soon ragged holes began to appear in i

the wooden sides of the boxcar as the
powerful birds ripped their way out.

ookeepers around the country

say they are swamped with

calls from parrot owners
desperately offering to “donate” their
pet bird, which would have made a
better post card than a pet.

For Jerome Scherr, owner of the
Parrot Jungle in South Dade, it’s an old
story. “I got three Blue-and-Gold
Macaws last week,” he said in a recent

’ interview. “And I’ve got a message here

from a lady in Montana who’s got a
Green-wing and a Blue-and-Gold that
she wants to give us.

“When people ask my advice, I say,
‘Do you want to have a baby?’ Because
that’s what it amounts to, having
another baby —— and they don’t grow
up!” Scherr says.

Because of the popularity of parrots
among Latins, the Miami area is a
particularly strong market for tropical
birds. On weekends, street vendors in
Hialeah and Little Havana peddle caged
parrots from trucks and car trunks.

Police say there is disturbing evidence
that rare and exotic birds are being
slaughtered in some Cuban santeria
ceremonies. In February, Sweetwater 7
Detective Manuel Pardo arrested Rafael

 

Ibanez for stealing valuable parrots and
cockatoos to use as live sacrifices for a
santeria ritual. “He vividly described
how he would rip their heads off with
his bare hands,” Pardo said. “It’s hard
core.” ‘ '

Miami importer Bob Jeffries recently
noticed that a new shipment of African
Grey Parrots had been plucked of their
distinctive red tail feathers. A single
plume from the rump of an African
Grey is said to be worth $8 _to santeria
practitioners.

For most bird thieves, the motive is
simply fast money on the wing.

Miami police arrested one suspected
bird snatcher who found his quarry
through the “birds for sale” classified
ads. After examining the birds at the
owner’s home, police say, the thief
would take the parrots to a waiting car
to show his “crippled wife.”

Then he would drive off, bird in
hand.

Conservationists assert that the profit.
earned from domestic thefts is chicken
feed compared to what the smugglers
make. A Military Macaw illegally
bought on the streets of Tijuana for
$125 can be resold in the United States
for up to $1,000.

Miami Customs agents seized 69
smuggled birds in 1981. Between ,1
January and J une. this year, 100 more
birds were recovered, including 31
parrots and six macaws..

Fifty-four of the black-market birds
were Cuban Melodious Finches, illegally
brought into the country by _
Cuban-Americans returning from _,:
Havana. The fragile songbirds were it ‘

 




 

secreted in straw hats, overcoats, radios,
even bogus tubes of Russian toothpaste.

Most of the parrots and maCaws
seized in South Florida this year were
found on marijuana freighters and
cocaine planes. In one case, a small
aircraft carrying a load of cocaine ‘
crashed near Lake Okeechobee. Among
the contraband cargo were six young
Blue-and-Gold Macaws. Five died on
impact, but one sturdy bird survived,
passed quarantine and was sold at a
recent USDA auction here. '

The most ﬂagrant and pathetic-parrot
smuggling occurs in the Southwest,
where organized bird rings infiltrate
from Mexico, often in collusion with
American pet stores and wholesalers.

A common method is to tape the
bird’s beak and eyes, wrap it in
newspaper to protect the feathers, and
then conceal it in a spare tire, hubcap or
suitcase while crossing the border
checkpoints.

“They get them drunk on tequila to
keep them quiet,” explains US.
Customs Agent Charles Conroy of
Houston. “Then they put them in 'a
sock and hide them . . . somewhere in
the vehicle.”

Last year Conroy’s unit seized 668
Amazon Parrots along the border.

“The MO. is very similar to narcotics
smuggling,” says Customs Agent
Sundstrom. “The only difference is
you’ve got a live animal. I’ve seen them
manufacture little tiny straitjackets
out of canvas, with little tiny buckles,
and they’ll stack them up just like
cordwood . . . that way it won’t ruin
their feathers.” _ .

Earlier this year, federal agents
intercepted smugglers as they ﬂoated a
raft loaded with Amazon Parrots across
the Rio Grande River. Most of the
birds, which were destined for a
Brownsville, Tex. pet shop, already were
dead or dying.

he illegal bird business offers

obvious financial advantages.

Smugglers can dodge import
and export duties, wildlife laws and US.
Customs. The recipient pet dealer gets
an expensive bird for about half the
going wholesale price.

Equally important is avoiding the
minimum 30-day USDA quarantine
imposed on all wild bird shipments.
During that period, all parrots are
screened for exotic Newcastle’s disease,
a highly contagious virus.

Exotic Newcastle’s is greatly feared
because it is lethal to domestic poultry
stock; a severe outbreak in 1971 and
1972 devastated the chicken industry in
California. When a parrot held in
quarantine is discovered to have exotic
Newcastle’s, the stricken bird and all
others exposed to it are destroyed.

One problem with the USDA
quarantine, importers say, is that
conditions within the crowded holding
facilities take a terrible toll on the
healthiest of birds. Thousands of
uninfected parrots die each year in
government quarantine, bird dealers
charge, because of stress and exposure

to a variety of diseases from other birds "

For this reason, importers have a high

 

Popular B/ue—and—Go/d Macaws
on display at Miami ’3 Imperial
Bird Company. Birds retail for
$800 and higher.

 

stake in getting the most precious
species —— say, a Rose-breasted
Cockatoo or a Hyacinth Macaw —— out
of quarantine as quickly as possible. Or
skipping it altogether.

“They will do everything humanly
possible to get these birds in. It’s almost
a sickness with these people,” says
Michael P. O’Riordan, a Fort
Lauderdale based Customs agent
considered an expert on bird smuggling._
A few importers, he says, “would sell
their own mother to'get a rare bird in.
I’ve never seen such an industry of
cutthroats.” ,

Before his transfer to the Federal
Drug Task Force, O’Riordan’s speciality
was paper smuggling. His targets were
bird dealers who used forged-and phony
documents to sneak thousands of illegal
parrots into the United States.

The Justice Department says Miami
and Los Angeles are the centers for this
kind of sophisticated bird scam.

The paper schemes are not
complicated. All parrots entering this
country must be accompanied by export
documents from the country of origin.
This document must attest to the exact
number of birds, the species, and the
value of each one. The export form
must be signed and stamped by a
designated government official in the
exporting country.

But this system is easily subverted.
Wildlife Agent John Cross says a bird
company in Paraguay was able to obtain
a stack of blank permits and an ofﬁcial
government stamp. Shipments of
parrots began to arrive in Miami with
documents that appeared legitimate,
but were in fact forgeries.

“They pay people to steal stamps and
documents. It’s very easy,” Cross says.
“All you’ve got to do is find the janitor
with the right keys.”

Last year three shipments of prized
cockatoos arrived simultaneously in
Miami, Newark and San Francisco -——
all with the same export document.

 

nother common trick is to lie
about the number of birds in a
‘ shipment, and lie about the
species.

“In cockatoos, the only difference in
some species is the color of the crest,”
O’Riordan says. “I know of a case where
the importers plucked out the entire
crest of the bird, knowing that it
wouldn’t grow back in the 30 days of
quarantine.” . .

In this manner a protected Greater
Sulfur-crested Cockatoo could be
admitted into the country as a common
White Cockatoo.

Not long ago, federal agents tracked
down dozens of endangered Golden
Conures that had slipped through
Miami Customs because they had been

‘dyed completely green to look like

common parrots. The birds were found
in California, being sold under their
true identities at $2,500 each.

The newly toughened federal Lacey
Act makes it a felony to import parrots
in violation of state or international
wildlife laws; conviction carries a
maximum sentence of five years in
prison and a $20,000 fine.

But enforcement depends on
nebulous territorial data about where
parrots live, breed and ﬂy.

For many years the magnificent
cobalt Hyacinth Macaw, the largest of
all parrots, was considered exclusively
native to Brazil. And although Brazil
strictly forbids the exports of these
birds, more than 700 Hyacinths were
legally imported into the United States
between 1977 and 1980.

How? Through countries like
Paraguay, Indonesia and Bolivia —-
where exporters claim the birds were
caught or bred. Federal agents believe
that the macaws actually are being
smuggled out of Brazil into these
countries for export.

“It’s a jungle, literally,” O’Riordan
says. “The two parties meet in a jungle
on the border of two South American
countries and do business.”

 

A study conducted by one
conservation group, TRAFFIC, showed
that between October 1979 and June
1980 about 40,000 parrots entered the
United States from “countries where
they do not exist in the wild.

“It’s a little bit of a sleazy business, it
is,” says. importer Bob Jeffries.

But he and other bird wholesalers say
that they sometimes are hoodwinked
themselves by crooked animal dealers in
South America, Central America and
Singapore — the key parrot exporting
regions.

How, they ask, can an ordinary
businessman be expected to spot a
forged document if trained federal
agents have trouble doing it? And how
can one tell —-— just by looking at a bird
—— if it was born in Brazil, or Paraguay?

Moreover, some bird dealers say,
worldwide enforcement efforts are

hypocritical, and might actually lead to

the extinction of several valuable
species.

Australia, for instance, rigidly
prohibits the exportation of cockatoos
as a protected native species. Yet, that
same government offers a bounty to
anyone who shoots a cockatoo because
ravenous ﬂocks of the birds destroy
thousands of acres of Australian crops.

Importer Bern Levine says parrots
and macaws face a greater threat from
progress than from poachers.

Reacting to international pressure,
some South American countries have
restricted or-outlawed the exportation
of parrots. Paradoxically, as these
countries develop, the last nesting
grounds of these birds are being wiped
out. In Brazil, 2.5 million acres of rain
forest — prime habitat for a variety of
parrots — is being leveled annually by
the timber industry.

The best hope for survival, Levine
says, is to allow threatened tropical
parrots to be exported to domestic

l’
' .

Photograph by Bruce Gilbert

 




 

IIISTHE BIRDS I

breeders in the United States and
Western Europe. ‘

arrot breeding is a new science,

made difficult because there

often is no obvious way to tell »

a male from a female. Today
avrculturists are using microscopic
surgery to determine the sex of parrots.

As a result, breeding farms are reporting

more success and less embarrassment.

These projects are not as altruistic as
they might sound. Home-born,
hand-raised parrots retail for three or
four times the price of a wild, imported
bird. The reason: Parrots raised from
the egg are healthier, more affectionate,
easier to train and —— most importantly
-— less prone to bite. Only a veteran
parrot owner can fully appreciate this
last trait.

Wildlife groups admit that domestic
aviculture is making strides that could

save threatened and endangered species.

But these same conservationists scoff at
the proposition that most rare parrots
being sold in U.S. pet stores come from
breeding farms and other legal sources.

“Garbage, pure garbage,” says David
Mack of the TRAFFIC wildlife

. organization. Macaws and cockatoos
protected in their native country arrive
here by one method, he says: the black
market.

How can you spot an illegal bird?
Usually, you can’t.

All legal parrots entering USDA
quarantine are fitted with stainless steel
leg bands, engraved with a code
number. But once the bird is released to
the owner or importer, the leg bands
may be removed.

Reputable pet stores should be able
to provide quarantine data on their ‘
parrots, but not all do. Federal agents

Photograph by Bruce Gilbert

 

 

say there’s virtually no foolproof way to
spot a contraband cockatoo.

Consequently, bird smuggling
traditionally has been a low-risk,
high—profit business. The few who have
been caught have paid small fines and
gone about their dirty business. In the
absence 'of ironclad proof, many
smuggling cases have ended up as civil
forfeitures (one pending in Miami
federal court is captioned The United
States of America US. Eight Hispaniolan
Amazon—Birds).

But, between 1979 and 1981, the
Justice Department began to Crack .
down. During that time, more than 35
bird smugglers got jail terms, according
to Kenneth Berlin, the former U.S.

‘ prosecutor who headed the program.

A landmark case took place in Miami,
where veteran bird importer Bert
Slocum went on trial last year.

After exotic Newcastle’s disease broke
out in one of Slocum’s USDA
quarantine stations, the government
ordered him to destroy a large shipment
of parrots. The day before the
scheduled extermination, the
quarantine station was burglarized and
$100,000 worth of birds were removed.

Slocum later was accused of stealing
his own diseased birds and selling them
illegally to pet shops. When the
remaining stock got sick and died,
Slocum claimed that the USDA had let
the sick birds slip through quarantine
undetected. He billed the government
for damages and collected $290,383.

Ultimately the bird man was charged
with fraud, false documenting,
double-invoicing and violating
nUmerous wildlife laws. Among the
allegations: that Slocum and his '
employes stuffed dead, diseased parrots
down a garbage disposal so the USDA

 

wouldn’t find them.

A federal jury convicted Slocum of
fraud and several wildlife violations. He
was sentenced, to a year in jail and fined
$18,000. Slocum is appealing his

conviction, but the government has shut .

down his Quality Bird Company.

The most aggressive prosecution is 4
taking place against border smugglers in
San Diego, where Assistant U.S. ,1
Attorney Judy Hayes has won
convictions in six recent bird-smuggling
cases. The average sentence, she says, is
six months for a first offender, ‘
three-to-five years for repeat violators. 1‘

“I just finished a case where they 1,
walked 109 birds across the desert. A :1
third to one- -half were dead when they
got here,” Hayes says.

espite successful prosecutions,

ex- prosecutor Berlin worries

that bird smuggling is being
overlooked in the new federal push
against drug importation. “I felt it
would take five or six years of
enforcement to cut down the trade. We
only had a year of it,” he says. “I’m not
optimistic about what’s going on.”

The new government prosecutor in ,
charge of wildlife smuggling
investigations, Vance Hughes, says the
first hurdle is convincing federal judges
that bird suspects can be hardened
criminals —— “professionals like Big
Vinnie.” '

“Big Vinnie” is Vincent Teresa, one
of the most famous Mafia gangsters of
recent times. Years ago, after Teresa
became a government informant, he
wrote a book called, My Life in the
Mafia.

After testifying against several mob
heavyweights, Teresa was given a new
identity and sent to California. Using
the name “Charles Cantino,” Big Vinnie

Roadside vendor offers parrots, cockatiefs, and othebrrr's at N 103rd Street and 32nd Avenue in—
North Dade.

12”

went into the bird import business 1n
San Diego.

Soon he was the subject of an
investigation into a parrot- -smuggling
racket along the Mexican border. Later
the Australian government named him
as a buyer of protected parrots being
smuggled out of that country.

Big Vinnie moved north to Seattle,
where his true identity was revealed 1n
1979 after he was charged with illegally

importing Indonesian parrots.

Teresa was acquitted, but his seamy
association with the bird business has
not enhanced the industry’s image.

Longtime bird dealers say their
business has been unfairly stained by
publicity attending cases like Slocum
and Teresa. “Most of the people 1n this
business, like myself, are in it because
they really love these birds,” says _
importer Jeffries of the Imperial Bird
Company.

Birdnappers have struck Imperial
three times, making off with nearly
$150,000 worth of cockatoos, macaws
and parrots. As a result, Jeffries and
partner Bill Dew have instituted
security measures befitting a diamond
broker.

Because standard burglar alarms are

«useless in bird warehouses — free— ﬂying
parrots love to gnaw on the electrical
wires — many importers and exhibitors
have invested thousands of dollars 1n
wireless surveillance equipment.

Chronic thefts have also forced bird
dealers to experiment with intricate
locks, 24-hour guards, even a
super- -secret method of tattooing parrots
for identification.

To cut down on the black- market
bird trade and help isolate cases of
exotic Newcastle’s disease, the Florida
Legislature this year passed a law
requiring anyone selling parrots to
obtain a state license and keep detailed
sales records.

Whether the statute can be enforced,
or whether it will even be taken .
seriously by bird pirates, remains to be
seen. Legitimate dealers and wildlife
experts are skeptical.

As long as the parrot— on- e-very-patio
trend continues, the smuggling and
theft of these magnificent birds 1s likely
to thrive.

Sometimes, the birdnappers are
thwarted by their voluble Victims. Two
years ago Miami Police Detective Jim
Lyons investigated the theft of a parrot
from the home of a Baptist minister.

When Lyons confronted the
suspected thief —- whose porch was
ﬁlled with angry parrots — the
detective heard a helpful voice cry out
from one of the cages. “Hello! Praise the
Lord!” The cop saved the preacher’ s
bird.

In another incident at a popular
South Florida animal attraction —‘
which will not be named here because
the owner has lost so many parrots to
bird burglars —— nocturnal thieves made
off with a trained Sulphur— crested
Cockatoo and her two babies.

The next morning bird handlers
noticed that the ﬂoor of the burgled
cage was covered with blood — human
blood. The bird had put up a fierce
fight

A few days later, the female cockatoo
flew back into the compound, calmly
climbed in her cage and began to preen.

 

Somehow she had escaped
Baretta would have been proud. i!

 

 

 




Humane Forum

Don’t Buy This Bird!
By Nancy Anne Payton

.\ \ \\

Jill once /MSPCA

Parrots are in vogue as the animal status sym-
bol. You see them promoted anywhere and everywhere
—on mugs, T-shirts, jewelry, advertisements, television
shows, amusement parks, discos, and, of course, in pet
shops. Parrots, in art or in the ﬂesh, are big business.
Approximately half the live birds imported into the
United States are psittacines. The pet industry now con-
siders parrots staples, along with traditional animals
such as puppies, hamsters, mice, and fish. Parrot Jungle
is a growing pet-shop chain specializing in birds.

While a parrot on a shoulder represents status
to many, to those in the humane community the sight
represents potential extinction. The commercial trade in
parrots is devastating wild populations. All parrots sold
in the pet trade are collected from the wild. In addition
to increased commercial pressures, the slow-breeding
parrots also suffer from loss of habitat due to lumbering
and agricultural expansion. Even some collection meth-
ods compound the loss of suitable habitat. Large trees
that parrots seek for nesting sites are felled to capture
young birds, most marketable because they train quickly
and adapt readily to human handling. Gone now is a
future nesting site and quite possibly nestlings that were
killed in the crash. The adult parrots may search several
years for another suitable nesting location. Another
capture technique involves the spreading of a sticky sub-
stance that holds not only parrots, but any attracted
wildlife. Periodically, the trapped parrots are collected
for the pet trade, while the other unfortunate animals
are left to die.

Capture is only the beginning of the parrot’s
long and inhumane trip to the consumer. It is commonly
estimated that for every bird that arrives at the pet shop,

five others will have died in the process. Overcrowding,
improper food, lack of water, stress, and exposure are
factors in the saga of the parrot’s path to market and
extinction.

A hopeful sign, if not too late, is the recent
addition of almost all psittacines to the international
treaty (CITES) that regulates trade in these fragile crea-
tures. The vote to protect these parrots was thirty-two in
favor and four opposed. Unfortunately, the United
States, one of the largest consumers of parrots, was
among the four favoring weaker regulations. Self-
appointed “parrot lovers,” working through the Ameri-
can Federation of Aviculturists and aided by the Pet
Industry Joint Advisory Council (anxious to protect the
multimillion-dollar wild-bird business), were respon—
sible for this international embarrassment. This cadre
almost succeeded in persuading the United States to
exempt itself from the stronger trade regulations (see
“Dateline” this issue).

Parrots are also threatened by illegal traffick-
ing. Parrot pushing is as profitable as smuggling cocaine
or diamonds. Ingenious smuggling methods include
false-bottomed crates, hollow spare tires, and hollowed
fruit. Parrots have even been discovered taped to smug—
glers’ bodies. No one knows how many parrots are ille-
gally imported into the United States, though some
experts estimate that the number far exceeds current
legal import statistics.

Another common illegal procedure is the laun-
dering of parrots through other countries. TRAFFIC (a
division of the World Wildlife Fund—US.) reviewed
shipping documents and revealed that “the US. im—
ported parrots from Bolivia and Paraguay that are
found only in Brazil . . . Brazil, however, bans the com-
mercial export of all wildlife.”

In light of greed and continuing consumer de-
mand, the CITES treaty, wildlife protection acts of vari-
ous countries, and even US. state and federal laws may
be documents of delusion in the effort to protect wild
birds. If you wish to know more about the commercial
caged-bird trade, we urge you to read The Bird Business
by Greta Nilsson, available from the Animal Welfare
Institute, PO. Box 3650, Washington, D.C. 20007. It is
five dollars prepaid and well worth the nominal fee.

Even if parrots were bred in captivity, even if
the taking of parrots from the wild were ecologically
sound, wild birds don’t belong on people’s shoulders or
as decorator items in chic living rooms. As Socrates
said, “There are trades in which it is impossible for‘a
man to be virtuous.”

Nancy Anne Payton is humane issues analyst for the
Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Animals 35

 




‘ 3 ‘ (continuedfrom page 19)

Stephen W. Kress

Rites of spring include courtship for puffins at an island nesting site.
Once plentiful along the Maine coast, puffin populations have been
drastically reduced by hunting and remain threatened by habitat loss
and oil contamination.

protection from hunting, the puffin populations on
Machias Seal Island and Matinicus Rock have increased
to approximately 750 and 75 pairs respectively since
1900. The growth of these colonies suggests that feeding
and breeding habitats remain suitable in the Gulf of
Maine. However, no new colonies in Maine are known.

The Puffin Reestablishment Project, a research
project of the National Audubon Society, began in 1973
with a study designed to determine the feasibility of
moving ten-day-old puffin chicks from Newfoundland
to Maine. Prior to this study, little was known about the
techniques of transporting or rearing Atlantic puffins.

The feasibility study demonstrated that puf fin
chicks could survive the 1,000-mile trip from large New-
foundland colonies to the Maine coast and that the
chicks could be reared with a minimum of human dis-
turbance in man-made burrows.

In 1974, in cooperation with the Canadian
Wildlife Service, the National Audubon Society began a
program to transplant nestling puffins from a large
Newfoundland colony to a former puf fin breeding site
at Eastern Egg Rock in Muscongus Bay, Maine. Now in
its ninth year, the program has resulted in the release of
630 young puffins—96 percent of those transplanted to
the island. The chicks were reared in man-made sod
burrows and fed twice daily on a diet of frozen smelt
with vitamin supplements. The young puffins were
marked with colored leg bands and permitted to fledge
from their new home with the hope that they would
eventually return to breed at the release site rather than
at their original home in Newfoundland.

In 1977, puffins from the 1975 age group re-
turned to the island and landed among wooden decoys
positioned to attract the birds. By 1980 there were more
than fifty times as many puffin sightings at Eastern
Egg Rock as in 1977, with a significant increase in the
amount of time the birds spent on the island. In 1980,
members of four different age groups (1975, 1976, 1977,

36 Animals

and 1978) were observed, with as many as twenty—three
transplanted birds in sight at the same time.

As puffins do not normally breed until they are
five years old, the first breeding of puffins at Eastern
Egg Rock is still at least one more year away. As the
population of transplanted birds increases each year
with the addition of recruits from subsequent trans-
plants, the chances of establishing a viable breeding
population improve.

If the project at Eastern Egg Rock is successful,
it will have valuable implications for management of
puffins throughout their extensive North Atlantic range.
If a colony can be reestablished at the edge of the puf-
fin’s range, it should be possible to reestablish puffin
colonies in vacant habitat elsewhere in the North At-
lantic. However, this would be appropriate only if the
causes for the original declines were abated and the
environment once again made suitable. Techniques used
for Atlantic puffins could also be useful in developing
management plans for other seabirds with similar life
histories.

The establishment of procedures for restoring
seabird breeding populations is important considering
the extensive disturbance and reduction of range caused
by human activities. Though puffins are legally pro-
tected from hunting pressure in North America and
most colonies have sanctuary status, they face new
threats from expanded gull populations, overfishing of
their foods, gill nets, and oil and chemical contamina-
tion at sea. These factors may explain why the species
has continued to decline in much of its present range.

In the Gulf of Maine the two remaining popula-
tions are densely concentrated on their respective islands
during the breeding season and are thus vulnerable to oil
spills. Current plans for a major supertanker port and
oil refinery at Eastport, Maine, pose a real threat to the
future of the Maine colonies.

Additional breeding sites in the Gulf of Maine
will strengthen the puffin’s status at the southern limit
of its North American range and offer some assurance
that, in the event of a disaster at one of the remaining
colonies, this appealing bird would not disappear alto-
gether from the Maine coast.

Although manipulative techniques such as the
Puffin Reestablishment Project offer hope for boosting
local populations and reestablishing colonies in vacant
range, only long-term solutions to the more profound
causes of decline will ensure that the North Atlantic re-
mains sufficiently clean and productive for seabirds
such as the puffin.

Ornithologist Dr. Stephen W. Kress planned and directed
the Puffin Reestablishment Project; Kathleen Blanchard-French is an
associate in Dr. Kress ’s writing projects.

 




SMUGGLERS ARE CLEVER . . .
BUT GET CAUGHT ANYWAY

INVENTIVE SMUGGLERS

Every smuggler thinks he has
devised the perfect gimmick for
defeating customs officials.
Occasionally the smuggler suc-
ceeds, but, more often than not,
failure and criminal prosecution
are his rewards.

“It is obvious that there are
people on both sides of the border
(Mexican-American) willing to
threaten our healthy poultry and
exotic bird industries by
smuggling birds into the United
States,” according to Bill Buisch
of the United States Department
of Agriculture. And that’s where
the elaborate smuggling plots
come into play.

Two such recent incidents are
typical.

The first case involved a
‘sniffer’ dog called into action
when a nervous-appearing driver
was stopped for inspection while
crossing the border at San Ysidro,
Calif. The dog called attention to
the car’s trunk. When opened it
showed a normal appearing spare
tire.

But when the tire was turned
over, inspectors found the bottom
side had been cut away and ten
yellow-headed Amazon parrots
were hidden inside. USDA
veterinarians found these birds
were infected with exotic
Newcastle disease.

The second case also happened
on the Mexico-California border.

U.S. agents spotted and chased
several men trying to enter the
country illegally. The fleeing men
dropped burlap bags that con-
tained 30 yellow-headed Amazon
parrots. These birds were placed
in quarantine at San Ysidro and
several died before positive
diagnosis came back from the test
lab.

In addition, there was a third
case that involved a Michigan
couple who bought a pair of
yellow-head Amazon parrots
while they were on vacation in
Monterey, Mexico. They also got
instructions on how to smuggle
the birds into the United States.

They succeeded, but the birds
got sick soon after the couple
returned home. A local
veterinarian submitted specimans
to the USDA and the specimans
are presently being tested for
exotic Newcastle disease.

“I doubt if people are going to
stop trying to smuggle parrots into
the country,” said USDA
spokesman Dr. Bill Buisch.
“Therefore, we urge all bird
owners to avoid so-called
‘bargains’ and help eliminate the
chance of bringing the disease
into their own flocks or aviaries.”

Exotic Newcastle disease does
not pose a health hazard to people
who eat eggs or poultry products.
However, some people who have
handled infected birds have
developed infections as a result of
the exposure.

SPEND LESS
AND GET
MORE?

In these days of soaring
prices it is always a sur-
prise to get more of any-
thing for less money! But
that's what we are doing
for you at Todays Animal
News.

We have incorporated
our old newsprint format
into your new and
enlarged magazine. The
magazine will now be one
third larger and come to
you bi-monthly. It will
contain even more timely
stories, articles and
pictures. It will provide
additional space to bring
you longer and more in-
depth stories.

But the best part of all
is that it isn't going to
cost you any more. In
fact, for a limited time we
are offering you a chance
to extend or renew your
subscription at some very
substantial savings!

You can save one third
off the regular sub-
scription price if you
extend or renew your
subscription right now.
You pay only $13.00 for a
full two years of the
Todays Animal News, and
save $6.00. If you already
have a current sub-
scription we will just
extend it for two years at
this special savings.

We're growing, and
want you to grow with
us!

YES! I want to enjoy the
new Todays Animal News
and save some money.
Please El extend El renew
my subscription for two
years for only $13.00.
Payment is enclosed.

Name

 

Address :

Citv

 

State and Zip

 




February 20, l98l

The enclosed mortality data on Latin American parrots imported into
the United States was obtained from U.S. Department of Agriculture
mortalizy forms obtained under the Freedom of Information Act.

hey do not include all birds imported during that period, hovev
since some forms had not been sent to the U.S. Department of Agr tu
headquarters office. They are fairly representative of imported o rro
from these countries in showing number of species imported and mor

8
l

ali
rates. Taey were tabulated by Animal Welfare Institute by country of
export.

 




n-bellied Conures
nian Conures
lian Parrots
ay Conures
e- crowned Conures
ite— Ex€d Conures
C:ue-frontec

December 15, 1979

Nanday Conures

Blue-crowned Conures

White-eyed Conures
—be11ied Conures

ied Conures (no
cies count)

March 25, White-eyed Conures
Nanday Conures
Maroon-bellied Conures
Parakeet 5p.

Eanday Conures
White—eyed Conures

 




3

KO
,.
‘-

pr

‘0
ow

H w \0
CD
('3

\J u' H *1

Kanday Conures
Patagonian Conures
M room-bellied Conures

tyre

L) \D

0‘ P“ LN \O
N O‘ " .
00 0‘ Ix) O‘-

Conures
nian Conures
rowned Conures

Conures 1,471

ian Conures 280
r tlets 593
ed Parrot-

P—i
\Jkﬁ
(Dr—0
i—Jt—JU'q
(”DON mHN [\3

5.4

C)

100
"er“keets 982

D--‘
(3 .b
.L‘

1. day Conures 295
"a:;gonian Conures 34
clue-crowned Conures 50
White-eyed Conures 15
Mountain Parakeets 100

November Canary-winged Parakeets 577
Patagonian Conures 741
Nanday Conures 1,926

Novemuer . Conures Sp. .597

January 24, 1979 Blue and Yellow M eaws
Green-winged Nacaws
Military Macaw

I {r
anlnde hacaw

Ix) H 1-4 \1 ix.)

.yacinth Eacaws
Yellow—naped Nacaws
Severe hacaws
Blue-crowned Conures

OOU!
00

January 27, 1979 Severe Macaws
Yellow—naped Macaws
Blue—crowned Conures
lyitred Conures
Caioue Parrots

June 30, 1979

 




October A,

February 12,

1979

1980

. I 3

(T)
P" (L
’.“l

.4“

DJ v~ ,

)"4 m
C.
m
I 0
I
(I)

I I

t") I (.z
I
1

$-
9

w-

\
r~+

5...: )«J .—_.J y...J :3
L. C (1
(I (1‘
I I
1‘ I1} ('3
“I
0
LI
(r

u; w 131.! (3'1
(h
I
(D
m
v CL
(0 (D

C
(I)

I
:7
m
'1)
0.
a.

U7
f...’
r,
m
I
’“h
H
O
._5
rr
(D

,3

II)
I» .1
C
(h

I
I‘H
H
(J
(‘I’
(D
C).

I
:1!
(T)
0)

m V
:1

._ ("I
{1)

m *1; CL

0 U
L:
OJ z“

I-4 m

“‘H o
(”D
(D
:3
I
(7
5-11
m
7.” '13 .1)

DJ 04
(a)
)

I

L
f h
I
0
"1
(J
‘ I
J
(1)

I‘d
'-

Q)

<
ﬂ
I
m
m
"a r)
(o m
(L a
(D

*ﬂ' U‘) {1171 CR)
- (D (D
{:3 v—a

C3
(D03

0 H
m
‘7'

H (D
'C
{I
I
rm
- . '"J
In.
0

,—
D) k'
:3
Q; .
.o’
(I) U“

m (‘3
w m

H 0‘

Dusk"- headed Conures

Blue-crowned Conures

Nitred Conures

Red-shouldered Nacaws
vere

~<

“O

facaws

Mitt)
mmr-J
wt":

U)
/

Kacaws
et Iacaws
—-hou1dered Nacaws
headed Parrots
-f: onted Aw azons
milian Far rots
rowned Conures

C )
H
m

U373
wmo

C C CL :1»
(I)

(I)

,

" ’ I 07 ’5": CU
(n r-r C y
I"! (D F“

b4
.

h
*1

C) a”)
O 0~
PJv
CL 0)

ﬂ)
3)
F...)

Uj
p...l
C.
(D

; “'acaws
3‘ SCEW’S

C)
H
m
(D
:1
No
:3

3

FY...) O")

(D (D
O)

Fad
p A
C)
I

I
L.‘

(“D

U) rd
(1
(1‘
H
v- n
\3
( )
TO
N
m

-1
_. r 1'
C (D

L

L I
V" P“ (I)
(‘1' L“
M m
('1) I
D: I” (D
H

\— a
ht

H“ ('3 O
. C.

J

’"I
.(D
H m

d
W
I ‘-
ill
’4
p...)
{U
"(1
ﬁx

’)
125

H
0

Le”?
m

r-..‘
’ I
(-5
}
:4
n\
(“1 .
(C
"W
(D
(II

C.
(T3
I
(3

't
w
M
w.
H

ﬁacaws

due to

Disease and

171 -
592 -

Exotic

Died
Refused
Ne castle

EXported

Died

' r.-
1n what.

\

P‘"
\O

U‘ L») Ix) Ln)

H

 




Bolivia (continued) hecerxeo Dead on
Arrlval
Feb. 12, 1980 Green—cheeked Conures

(continued) White-eyed Conures

Feb. 15, 1980 Blue and Yellow Macaws 150
Green~winged Macaws 18

Severe Macaws 73

Yellow-naped Nacaws 66

Blue-fronted Amazons 100

Mitred Conures 495

Canary-winged Parakeets 20

Dusky-headed Conures 120

Feb. 21, 1980 Dusky-headed Conures 1,028
Blue-headed Parrots 56
Red-shouldered Nacaws 94
Severe Macaws 59
Blue and Yellow Hacaws 62
Canary-winged Parakeets 199
Green-winged Macaws 26
Caique Parrots 8
Hitred Conures 30

Feb. 28, 1980 Green-winged Nacaws 29
Blue and Yellow Macaws 45
Military Macaw l
Yellow-naped Macaws 267
Severe Macars 43
Red-shouldered Macaws 27
Canary-winged Parakeets 173
Mitred Conures 26
Dusky-headed Conures 635
Green-cheeked Conures 9
Tucuman Amazon 1
White-eyed Conures l6
Mealy Amazon 1
Blue—crowned Conures 9

March 3, Blue and Yellow Macaws 83
Green-winged Macaws 10

March 7, Blue-fronted Amazons
Half-moon Conures 1C
Blue and Yellow hacaws 40
Cactus Conures* 2
Dusky-headed Conures 73
Blue and Yellow Macaws 9O
Severe Macaws

Severe Macaws 66
Red-shouldered Macaws 12
Yellow-naped Nacaws
Red-fronted Hacaws 4
Green~winged Hacaws 4
Blue and Yellow Eacaws

Mealy Amazon

Honk Parakeets

White-eyed Conures
Maximilian Parrots

*Tﬁis species found only in Brazil 4

 




Bolivia (continued) Receive?

April 3, 1980 Canary-winged Parakeets

(continued) Blue-crowned Conures
Orange—cheeked Amazons
Green—rumped Parrotlets
Tucuman Amazons

April 19, 1980 Green-winged Macaws
Maximilian Parrots
Blue—headed Parrots
Caninde Macaw
Scarlet Eacaws
Blue and Yellow ﬁacaws
Blue-fronted Amazons

Blue and Yellow Hacaws
Green-winged Macaws
Military Macaw
Red-fronted Macaws
Caninde Macaws
Yellow-naged Macaws
Severe ﬁacaws
Blue-crowned Conures
ﬁitred Conures
Dusky-headed Conures
Peach-fronted Conures
Green-cheeked Conures
White—eyed Conures
Blue-fronted Amazons
Tucuman Amazon
Plum-crowned Parrots
Blue-headed Parrots
Maximilian Parrots
Canary-winged Parakeets
Orange-fronted Parakeets
Sierra Parakeets
Blue-rumped Parrotlets

ﬂay 10, 1980 Blue~fronted Amazons
Dusky-headed Conures
Green—winged Macaws
Blue and Yellow Macaws
Yellow-naped Macaws
Severe Macaws

may 22, 1980 Blue-fronted Amazons
Yellow-collared Nacaws
Green-winged Nacaws
Plum-headed Parrots
Blue-headed Parrots
Peach-fronted Conures
Maximilian Parrots
Blue and Yellow Nacaws
Green-cheeked Conures
Red-fronted Hacaws
Mitred Conures
Blue-crowned Conures
Severe Nacaws

 




Green-winged Macaws
Blue and Yellow Macaws
Caninde ﬁacaws
Red-fronted Hacaws
Severe Eacaws
Yellow—naped ﬁacaws
Nitred Conures

Monk Parakeets
Canarynwinged Parakeets

29, 1980 Dusky-headed Conures
Blue-headed Parrots
Blue and Yellow Nacaws

31, 1980 Dusky-headed Conures
Mitred Conures
Canary-winged Parakeets
Severe Nacaws
Yellow—naped Macaws
Red-shouldered Eacaws
Blue-crowned Conures

H

(rower) P-‘UWOr—‘O‘r-J

20, 1980 Blue—crowned Conures
Dusky-headed Conures
Mitred Conures
Green-cheeked Conures
Peach-fronted Conures
White-eyed Conures
Canary-winged Parakeets
Blue—ramped Parrotlets
Blue-fronted Amazons
Plum-crowned Parrots
Blue and Yellow Macaws
Green-winged Macaws
Caninde Macaw

I‘Ji—‘hj

H

August 28, 1980 Blue and Yellow Macaws
Severe Bacaws
Dusky-headed Conures
Red-fronted Nacaws
Green-winged Nacaws
Yellow-naped Nacaws
Mitred Conures

2
5
3
4
a
l
l
9
0

September 9, 1980 Blue and Yellow Macaws
Blue-crowned Conures
Nitred Conures
Blue-headed Parrots
Red-shouldered Hacaws

September 11, 1980 Blue and Yellow Macaws
Green-winged Nacaws
Blue-fronted Amazons
Yellow-naped Nacaws
Blue-cronwed Conures
Hitred Conures
Blue-headed Parrots
Severe Macaws

 




.2;
7"

a . . #Died in
RECEZVEG

Quarantin‘

-eptember 13, 1980
Blue-crowned Conures 204 202 ~
Mitred Conures 493 493
Blue—headed Parrots 111 110
Dusky-headed Conures 300 300
Peach-fronted Conures 3O 30
Green-cheeked Conures 34 34
Yellow-naped Macaws 3O 30

(All birds in this
shipment euthanized due to
Exotic Newcastle Disease)

Sr‘t 1b 8
EP em er 14’ 19 OGreen-“inged Macaws 1

Blue and Yellow Hacaws 81 1

September 17, 1980
Blue and Yellow Racaws
Green-winged Macaws
Red-fronted Nacaws
Caninde iacaws
Blue—fronted Amazons
Plum-crowned Parrots
Nitred Conures

September 30, 1980
Blue and Yellow Macaws
Yellow-naped Nacaws
Caninde Macaws
Green-winged Macaws
Mitred Conures
Blue-crowned Conures
Severe Macaws

October 14, 1980
Blue and Yellow Macaws
Green-winged Nacaws
Mealy Amazon
Blue-crowned Conures
Blue—fronted Amazons
Yellow-naped Macaws
lonk Parakeets
Canary-winged Parakeets
Mitred Conures

October 20, 1980 Blue and Yellow Hacaws
Green:winged Macaws
Blue-crowned Conures
Mitred Conures

October 21, 1980 Monk Parakeets
Canary-winged Parakeets
Severe Nacaws
Blue and Yellow Nacaws
Green-winged Macaws
Red-fronted Macaws
Red-shouldered Hacaws
Yellow-:aped Ngcaw
Cactus Conures“
Blue—crowned Conures
Peach-fronted Conures
Green-cheeked Conures
White—eyed Conures

species found only in Brazil 7

 




Bolivia (continued:

October 23, 1980
Blue and Yellow Nacaws
Green-winged Macaws
Military Nacaws
Caninde Macaw
Red-shouldered Macaws
Dusky-headed Eonures
Mitred Conures
Blue—cronwed Conures
Nealy Amazons
Severe Macaws
Yellow-naped Macaws
Green-cheeked Conures
Peach-fronted Conures
Canary—winged Parakeets
Blue-headed Parrots
Monk Parakeets

November A, 1980 Blue—fronted Amazons
Canary-winged Parakeets
Green-cheeked Conures
Blue and Yellow Macaws
Green-winged Macaws
Blue-headed Parrots
Severe Nacaws
Yellow-naped Macaws
Mitred Conures

November 17 1980
L 1 : Canary-WiUEEd Parakeets

Yellow-naped Hacaws
Blue-crowned Conures
Blue-fronted Amazons
Green-cheeked Conures
Green-winged Nacaws
Hitred Conures
Dusky—headed Conures
Blue and Yellow Nacaws
Peach-fronted Conures
Dead on Arrival +
El Salvador Died in Quarantine

December 20, 1979 Yellow-naped Amazons 26
Mealy Amazons 12 A
Orange—cheeked Amazons 18 4
White fronted Amazons 2 1
White—crowned Parrots 2 l

Scarlet Hacaws 7 . . .
(The remaining 114 birds

were refused entry due to
Exotic Newcastle Disease
and exported

Guatemala .

March 10, 1979 Blue and Yellow Hacaws
Green-winged Macaws
Scarlet Hacaws
Yellow-naped Amazons
Orange—cheeked Amazons
Uealy Amazons
White—crowned Parrots
Ihite—fronted Amazons

 




October 17, 1980

Guyana
August 24,

November 5,

January 11,

January 17,

Yellow-naped Amazons

Red-throated Conures
Yellow-naped Amazons
White-fronted Amazons
Orange-cheeked Amazons
Mealy Amazons

Scarlet Macaws
White-crowned Parrots
{alf-moon Conures
Green Conures

Yellow-naped Amazons
White-fronted Amazons
Green-winged Amazons(3)
Half-moon Conures
Mealy Amazons

Scarlet Nacaws
Orange-cheeked Amazons

Dead on Arrival +
Died in Quarantine

Brown-throated Conures 27
Mealy Amazons 61
Yellow-headed Amazons l3
Green-winged Hacaws 3
Blue and Yellow Macaws 31
Red-shouldered Uacaws 3
Orange-winged Amazons 37
Blue-headed Parrots 25
Black-headed Caiques 3O

Or;nge-winged Amazons 38
Blue-headed Parrots 13
Blue and Yellow Nacaws A
Mealy Amazons 33
Yellowheaded Amazons 22
Red-shouldered Macaws

Dead on
Arrival

Parrots l
Nacaws

Orange-winged Amazons
Brown—throated Conures
Mealy Parrots
Green-winged Macaws
Blue and Yellow Hacaws
Blue-headed Parrots
Sun Conures
Red-shouldered Nacaws

Died in
Quarantine

4

12
24
18

 




7“» ", .‘ a o
:I'WLQC a?“ —- M: 5’ ‘1
H “.M‘. _, ‘ k4 LA. 7“ Ag; VG it}

Arrival Quarantine

Received

Guyana (continued)

February 19, 1980 Blue and Yellow Macaws
Green—winged Macaws
Red-shouldered Macaws
Sun Conures
Maaly Amazons
Orange-winged Amazons
Black-headed Caiques
Yellow-fronted Amazons

March 3, 1980 Orange—winged Amazons
Blue and Yellow Hacaws
Yellow-headed 'Amazon
Sun Conures

March 10, 1980 Sun Conures
Orange-winged Parrots
Hawkheaded Parrot
Mealy Amazons
Black—headed Caiques

March 10, 1980 Sun Conures
Red-shouldered Macaws
Red-billed Parrots
Brown—throated Conures
Yellowheaded Amazons
Blue and Yellow Nacaws
Green—winged Macaws
Grange-winged Amazons

 

March 21, 1980 Macaws SP

Orange-winged Amazons
Mealy Amazons
Yellowheaded Amazons
White-eyed Conures
Blue-crowned Conures
Yellowheaded Amazons
Nealy Amazons
Orange-winged Amazons
Blue and Yellow Hacaws
Black-headed Caiques
Painted Conures

nprll 21, 1980 Orange-‘Qinged Amazons

Mealy Amazons
Yellowheaded Amazons
Black-headed Caiques
Red-shouldered Nacaws
Blue and Yellow Hacaws
Green-winged Macaws

May 12: 1980 Blue and Yellow Macaws

Yellowheaded Amazons
Orange—winged Amazons
Black-headed Caiques
Brown-throated Conure

lO

 




Guyana (continued)

May 16, 1980

June 16,

1980

Blue and Yellow Nacaws
Green-winged Macaws
Red-shouldered Nacaws
Yellowheaded Amazons
Orange—winged Amazons
Caique Parrots

Healy Amazons

Blue and Yellow Macaws
Black-headed Caiques
Yellowheadéd Amazons
Orange-winged Amazons

Amazon Parrots

Blue and Yellow Eacaws
Green—vinged Eacaws
Crange-winged agazons
Healy Amazons
Yellowheaded Amazons

Blue and Yellow Eacaws
Green-winged Macaws
Black-headed Caiques
ﬁealy amazons
Yellowheaded Amazons
Orange-winged Amazons

Orange—winged Amazons
Yellowheaded Amazons
Brown-throated Conures
Sun Conures

Blue and Yellow Macaws
Black-headed Caiques

Sun Conures

Blue and Yellow Hacaws
Green—winged Hacaws
Red-shouldered Hacaws
Black—headed Caiques
Mealy Amazons
Orange-winged Amazons
Yellowheaded Amazons
Brownvthroated Conures

Yellowheaded Amazons
Mealy Amazons
Orange-winged Amazons
white—eyed Conures

Sun Conures
Brown-throated Conures
Green—winged Macaws
Blue and Yellow Hacaws

Received

 




Guyana (continued)

July 14, l980

July 21, 1980

July 28, l980

July 28, 1980

August 9, 1980

August 18, 1980

September 22, 1980

September 30, 1980

Orange-winged Amazons
Yellowheaded Amazons
Green-winged Macaws
Blue and Yellow Macaws
Brown—throated Conures
Sun Conures

Blue and Yellow Macaws
Green—winged Fecaws
Mealy Amazons
Yellowheaded Amazons
Sun Conures

Painted Conures

Macaws

Yellowheaded Amazons
Orange-winged Amazons
Blue-headed Parrots
Klack-headed Caiques
Red-shouldered Macaws

Blue and Yellow Macaws
Green-winged Macaws
Yellowheaded Amazons
Orange-winged Amazons
Brown-throated Conures
Nealy Parrots
Green-rumped Parrotlets

Blue and Yellow Hacaws
Green-winged Macaws
Red-shouldered Hacaws
Mealy Amazons
Yellowheaded Amazons
Orange-winged Amazons

Orange—winged Amazons
Mealy Amazons
Hawkheaded Parrot

Blue and Yellow Macaws
Yellowheaded Amazons
Sun Conures

Orange-winged Amazons
Nealy Amazons
Yellowheaded Amazons
Brown-throated Conures
Blue-headed Parrot

Sun Conures
Green-rumped Parrotlets
Blue and Yellow Macaws
Green-winged Eacaws

Parrots
Macaws

64

1

.L

62
15
10

50
10
31
1
2
18
16
L,

251
6

 




Guyana (continued)

October 10, 1980 Blue and Yellow Nacaws
Green-winged Nacaws
Mealy Amazons
Orange-winged Amazons

o t b 29 98
C 0 er a l O Mealy Amazons

Brown-throated Conures
Blue—headed Parrots
Orange-winged Amazons
Sun Conures

Honduras
September 22, 1979
Yellownaped Amazons
White—fronted Amazons
Crange-cbeeked Amazons
November 18, 1979 v _ ,
mealy AWEZOUS
Yellownaped Amazons
Orange-cheeked Amazons
White-crowned Parrots
White—fronted Amazons

Kay 31, 1980 White-fronted Amazons
Yellownaped Amazons
White-crowned Parrots
white-fronted Lmazons
Red-lored Amazons

1‘

September 26, lgbOYellownaped Amazons

Orange-cheeked Amazons
Uhite-crowned Amazons

m . 7 98
Lovember l- l, 0 .
' ’ Orange-cheeked amazons

Nealy Amazons
White-fronted Amazons
Yellownaped Amazons
White-crowned Parrots
Green Conures
Half-moon Conure

MEXICO January 10, 1979 Yellowheaded Amazons 450 7 450

Red—headed Amazons 2,400 2,400
Lilac-crowned Amazons 135 135
(All birds euthanized due
to Exotic Newcastle Disease)

January 11, 1979 Yellowheaded Amazons 175 175
Red-headed Amazons 168 168
(All birds were euthanized

due to Exotic Wewcastle Disease

 




Xovemner

December 13,

January 30,

1
.L

‘7 O

1979

I

1.1.?
II"
--' ( I.
) I
H} .3 .
("x
( I I'\‘
r I (L
(J (I‘
(‘3

(D
I
m

(> 'I
I

”.1
.4_.
.3
’J

r4
-— I F‘ H.
) )-
Q
I
I

I44 II) (I!)
(D I
PM
r' pi
D O

g1
._.‘
L:
r7‘

1»
3
I1)
N

[I

mmm

p
»

II) I?)
I

, a :
C)
0

LT:
I
3
O
O

(1. ,,.. r—J

rt,
y Tl

/

fa ..
‘I
I!
r?- I
I {h
“'1 O)
H H O;

 

 

 

 

'«4
I--‘
I‘“ I...‘ ’1.
~ m
D m
I
n

C3
C7. III
I-‘

5‘

L) If
0 W

[)1
I)
I
0 m

71
I—" n)
I~‘ (L
I
:7
(I)

‘I

ﬁt“
Q3

0'?
m

"I

1
PM

:3

PH (1‘ r?
0 (I)

I

"I H

\I

E H
P—J I~‘ b“

O H t
H H- m H-
m r—J

Hw :3 0)

'4 CL I-‘
I

H

Pv‘
.Lq

M1 2‘75
(D (D (\J

onures
Avazons

O

I
B
O

f) IT‘:

"I

:3

l)

I.
HCLC‘mO

J
(h {h
I--' I-‘J

we Ph
Q
f
if m»
Du (D C);
m m
* OJ

Amazons

K
m
o.

I—-'- m
I“ (L
(1* CD I
, D ’3‘ (It.
I (7)
0 m
J.
I
D.)

m
I

‘ w m
om

'5
:71
p

I"f‘

H

Amazons
White-fronted Amazons
Lilac-crowned Amazons

Rodheaded Amazons

White-fronted Amazons

C )
VI
(h
(D
'J
I'

l 3
:3
C.

#1
(I)

.4 (‘s
r I
m
I
(W
U’
Q
m
m

I~J :J

’D
P—JP‘JU‘

"I
g 3
1'3
(T‘

("I

O O (N)
5'
f
(7‘1
{v
Cl.
(I
CL

r—l
I-J

D.)

:1 J
(P
CL
I
:JJ
I’D
m
CL
IT)

5 O

.9 .I
,4 )4. {p

r1“

(1\

I

IJ I“
C)

(.1 —
(3” W

:5
01')

m
I

H .
I
(‘3
I

W (I
m
H)

(hwwr—‘DD
womowxo

ray—aw
Lﬂh) L1)

I\)

(7“
C‘P\IO\.L\(X3I~JI\J U1

 




‘.J ’r: 7
-JV

H k4 w
0 C) \O
K." C) \I

White-fronted
Red-headed Ama
Lilac-crowned
Double Yellow”

,
M” ’-
..4.|u

Lilac—crowned Amazons
Grange—Cheeked ;m2:ons

-moon Conure

e-fronted Amazon
c-Crowned Amazons
ox-naped Amazons

Conures

omw

“’1

c
r
e
.lue-headed

Bl
C

m

-y-
L

'3“)
h)

(D

5

er a Parakeets

Tui Parakeets
Crimson-fronted Parakeets
Great Green Macaws
Yellowheaded

d—shoulder

rrlet Macaw

(f) '1‘}
H-

e
C

\DOO‘LﬂLﬂU‘UJUOP-‘HHH O‘C‘O‘kﬂl>

a
. A
U
V

y—J
O

r.
C

tvrvvd
p-Hp~

 




n m
H
ﬁx
3

q (1')
(T‘
I
O H

- H
(N
1
(‘9'

Q1

'47)
k a
I
A 5:
Fl
1‘.)
0.) (1' .‘

D)
(D

$~V

a 'v: S

(7

i-winged Macaws
and Yellow Nacaws
ue-fronted Amazons

1

(h 0
Fl
:5
r‘f
CY

(A ”1‘
5.1,...4 '1']
L: m a)
m
r.
H P“ h.) F--' k)

m UL‘
\J

.L

—capped Conures
and Yellow ﬁacaws

)—-—J O
C r—-'
(U CL

H

,i

d (Y)
(\J (p
H ’
\D

"" (L3 L) ('3 C) Uj C)
H m
(h

P“
. U1 -
‘ (J‘ [\J H be (T‘-

o<b
Flu
r

90" Duo‘ Cl

C' C

m (T) CM
5...:

“ J U‘ ( J

p.) I}

C)
m

f7
k7
D.
I}
bl
1" r A .t
Dr; C .4.
Q
U

Q)

:3

old

H

b .
N L») Id 0')

10,

July 14, 1979
October 25, 1979
December A, 1979
Dead on Died in

Arrival Quarantin.
April 13, 1980 ﬁitred Conures , ll 79

August 31, 1980 Red-masked Conures 64 122
Pacific Parrotleus : 2 273

t D
H
('3

U‘

1
J
l
O\ 1...:

‘U
F"
(‘0
CL v1
5‘)
\0 U1 .L‘ 00 r-’ C” O

l
l

(f) m
H
0
>l
r r

H
( N
,

f}

(1‘
{L‘
C).
m

H

x O
}

""‘ "J

CW m

l

H
m
('3 (l‘
”4 O“ 0‘ \1
C17 0‘ 0‘

w

"1
)--~1 y-'

,., -4
" I

m
\3

..
C.

 




Surinam (ccntinued)

Zuly 29, 1980 Painted Conures
(continued) Severe Macaws

Trinidad
April 23, 1980 Blue and Yellow Macaws
Yellowheaded Amazons
Orange—winged Amazons

hay 15’ 1980 Yellowbeaded Amazons

Blue and Yellow Nacaws

lu
~ ne 13’ 1980 Yellowheaded Amazons

Orange-winged Amazons
Blue and Yellow Macaws

Uruguay
January 17, 1980 ﬁonk Parakeets 2,000
February 3, 1980 Monk Parakeets 3,500
April 12, 1980 Eonk Parakeets 2,000
June 14, 1980 Monk Parakeets 1,500

September 29, 1980 Monk Parakeets 750

Other Countries Exporting Parrots of Latin American Origin

Belgium ¢
June 12, 1980 Golden-capped Conures 50

-L

June 13, 1980 Janday Conures“ 30

Malaysia
November 9, 1979 Blue and Yellow Nacaws
Green—winged Macaws

South Africa i
February 8, 1980 Janday Conures

lay l, 1980 Janday Conures*

day 22, 1980 Green Conure
Black-headed Caiques
Monk Parakeets

May 26, 1980 Monk Parakeets
Sun Conures
June 9, 1980 Sun Conures

H
Nwoob 0‘\ll—‘ MD

October 10, 1980 Sun Conures

*These species are found only in Brazil

17

 




Unknown Country

October 14: '950 Blue and Yellow Nacaws 50
Severe Nacaws 78 17/ 61
Mitred Conures 744 Q0/7QQ
Yellow-naped Macaws 100 5/95
Green-cheeked Conures 301 50/251
Canary-winged Parakeets 315 5/310
Blue-crowned Conures 296 11/284
White-eyed Conures ' 50 45
Golden—capped Conuresx Q0
Nitred Conures 254
Black-headed Caiques 20
Yellow-naped Eacaws 80
Green-winged Eacevs 90

\J K}!

H
~\ “\
.D- u)

N t\)
\ \

h.)
\! OD r—* U1 (\3
()0 Q on

This lot consisted of two shipnents of which all
birds not dying were refused entry and exported.

No lab report was included on the form to confirm
that the birds were refused due to Exotic Newcastle
Disease)

* This species is found only in Brazil

 




Indonesian Journey

A recent ueport from Ulrike Freifrau von Mengden, Indonesia, gives a

disturbing account of a trip to the Aru Islands, including some,
information and photographs relating to trade in wildlifthhatmyas.g
’ . 1-,, .. H g?“ ,5 J—

-encountered. . x """‘g- a; *‘ g

- .2

On arrival in Dobo, the main town of Aru, in late 1977 :aboutGBOO

parrots of various species were encountered in cages in front oﬁ

houses along the beach. These were waiting for shipment to Ambon and
Sulawesi - apparently some of them go out in Vgovernment; and navy boats.

In front of the local Animal Protection Bureau building were many wooden
cages crammed with wallabies (the species of wallaby is not mentioned.1n
the report and we have been unable to find any species recorded from Aru).
The bemused reply to questions about the licences for all these animals

g

was that these were perhaps available from the dealers in Ambon.

A Chinese dealer was visited who was just packing a consignment of Skins

of birds of paradise and parrots. The photographs show a_big pile of skins

 

of the Greater Bird of Paradise Paradisaea apoda and a couple of King Birds

of Paradise Cicinnurus regius.

 

 

 

 




1()

Some of the Aru natives refrain
from hunting these birds, which
they know are protected, but the
Papuas in the interior have no
such scruples-and are mainly
responsible for the large number
of skins available for export

and tourists.

In a small village further south
-a Dugong Dugong dugon was seen
which had just been killed and

 

was being cut up. The tusks
fetch US.$50 in Ambon and the
meat is also very valuable.

Two more dugongs were also killed.

j' In the islands overall, the
‘Y Cassowary Casuarius casuarius

,had declined (probably through
being killed for food) and the

Green Turtle Chelonia mydas, both the adults and e ggs of which are taken by

 

the natives, is likely to have suffered.

.ra.‘

Many of the passengers on the boat back to Ambon had bags full of bird of
paradise skins. Queries about licences were again treated with derisiona
Also on board were 250 parrots and 1S cages of wallabies, many of wh1ch
died because of the rough sea). Apparently Indonesian rnd Japanese ships

meet outside the territorial waters and smuggled-anima s are traded.

This report was based on a trip made at the end of 1977. Since Indonesia
has now ratified the CITES, it is to be h0ped that such i. 1dents w1ll

soon cease, but careful monitoring of the trade in wildlife is still needed,
and WWF Indonesia have proposed a study of the trade of what is probably

one of the most important areas in the world.

a»

The Bulletin is available to anyone interested for a minimum donation of
3 10 (£5) p-a. (payable to Fauna Preservation Society). Since this only

'=covers the actual costs of production ild postage we hOpe that institutions

and anyone else who can afford it will contribute mc‘e generously.

 




