Published by the

BRITISH UNION FOR THE
ABOLITION OF VIVISECTION

. ‘ Late President :
'DR. WALTER R. HADWEN

London Centre: 47, WHITEHALL, LONDON, s.w.1.
Editorial-Ofﬁce: 138, WIDEMARSH STREET, HEREFORD.

Foundress:
MISS FRANCES POWER Conan

 

 

NO. 3. VOl. XLVI]

MAY—JUNE, 1945

, [Price 2d.

 

 

THE TWO

quarters to the policies of anti-vivisection societies,

and discussions Of the subject- have revealed
some misconceptions, it may be helpful, particularly
to new supporters, to give a brief outline of the position,
showing in what respects the societies agree and differ.

It is Obvious that the aim Of all anti—vivisection
societies must be to secure the abolition Of vivisection.
And, so far as we know, they all admit that this must
be done by legislation. The fundamental Object and
the means of attaining it thus appear to be common
to all the societies. Why, then, are the societies unable
to unite in a common policy?

The majority of the societies have a nO—compromise
policy: they ask for the total abolition Of vivisection,
and they will not ask for anything less than that.
Other societies think it. is a better policy to try\‘ tO
abolish vivisection piecemeal, and so they are in favour
of asking for lesser meaSures, such as the abolition Of
experiments on dogs. It is, therefore, clear that as
long as these two policies are in existence, co—operation
between all the societies must be on the lines of achieving
the abolition Of vivisection rather than the attainment
Of the lesser measures.

However disappointing this may be to those who
are. keen on achieving something in the near future,
there is nothing to be gained by warfare among the
societies. NO one can say Whether vivisection will.
be abolished altogether at one time, or whether it will
be done away with piece by piece; this is purely a
matter Of speculation. But it might be useful to
consider some of the pros and cons Of the two policies.

With reference to the total abolition policy, the usual
argument advanced against it is that the demand is
too great and that it is never likely to be granted in
its entirety. But is that a serious objection to it?
If we do not receive all we ask for, we can go on ﬁghting
for the remainder, without having injured our cause
by asking for less.

Another contention is—that total abolitionists do not
seize oppOrtunities to advance lesser measures designed
to reduce the suffering of animals. This argument is

AS references have recently been made in various

/

 

POLICIES I

founded on a misconception. Apart from. the Bill
drafted by the B.U.A.V. to prohibit the spending on
vivisection Of the annual, Parliamentary grant for
medical research, no lesser measure has yet been pro-
posed that would unquestionably reduce, and not .
tend to prolong, the practice Of vivisection.

In passing, we may mention that the Bill designed tO
prohibit the spending Of public money on the practice
of vivisection has been three times before the House Of
Commons. ~ .

The ﬁrst occasion was on the “10th May, 1922, when
Lieut.—Commander Kenworthy moved : “ That leave be
given tO introduce a Bill to prevent the application Of
public money to vivisection experiments”, Dr. Murray
opposed this, and the House divided, with the result
that 102 voted for the introduction Of the ‘Bill, and
170 against.

Two years later, Commander Kenworthy again
moved that the Bill be introduced. Dr. Spero made a
speech in opposition, but the House agreed to the
introduction, without a division, and the Bill was
accordingly presented and read the ﬁrst time. It was
tO have been read the second time on the following day,
but unfortunately the Bill was not reached. ,

The third Occasion was on the 16th December, 1930,
when Commander Kenworthy was opposed by Major
Church and the introduction Of the Bill was defeated
by 14 votes, the voting being: Ayes, 156; Noes, 170.

Returning to our consideration Of the two policies,
the chief Objections tO the policy Of the piecemeal
abolitionists are : (1) that it destroys the united front ._
against the vivisectors, and (2) that any success achieVed ’
would tend tO establish more ﬁrmly the practice that
remained. The interests Of the animals, as a Whole,
would therefore appear to be jeopardised.

The Dogs Bill is an- example of this, and we cannot
help thinking that those who support it have not fully
considered all that is involved in it. Some Of the
reasons we have for not being in favour Of the Bill are
as follows :- _

1. That the selection Of one kind Of animal for
exemption is Obviously unfair. Anti-vivisectionists

 




 

l8 . THE ABOLITIONIST

May—June, I945

 

who prefer cats or horses may, therefore, be expected
to resent, rather than support, this Bill.

2. That it is not really an anti—Vivisection measure ;
in effect, it proposes that experiments on dogs be
transferred to other animals. (As comparatively few
experiments are performed on dogs, many of‘the vivi—
sectors might well support the Dogs Bill, as a matter
of expediency, if they happened to have a special
liking for dogs or wished to remove opposition to their
work.)

3. That it cannot be maintained that the exemption
of dogs would reduce the total number of experiments.
The substitution of other animals might conceivably
increase the experiments.

4. That the plea for the exemption of the people’s
favourite animal, only, may be taken as a tacit ad-
mission that Vivisection is necessary.

5. That nothing else shocks the public mind as much
as the experiments on dogs, and the great majority
of anti-vivisectionists are chieﬂy concerned about the
welfare of dogs. The exemption of dogs would there—
fore mean the loss of the most impressive literature and
very many supporters. This would greatly weaken the
movement, thereby prolonging the cruel practice of
vivisection.

 

At the same time it should be pointed out that
although the British Union for the AbolitiOn of Vivi—
section does not, as a Society, support the Dogs Bill,
the opinions of others who think differently are respected,
and individual members are free to act according to
their own judgment.

Before concluding this article it may be as well to
quote the policy of the B.U.A.V. This is deﬁned in its
Memorandum of Association, as follows 2*—

“ To oppose Vivisection absolutely and entirely and without
attempts at compromise of any kind. This is the fundamental
aim and object of the Association and it is the intention of the
incorporators to prohibit (so far as they lawfully can) any
future modiﬁcation thereof or departure therefrom.”

It is encouraging to note that the majority of anti—
Vivisection societies, both in Britain and abroad, are

holding ﬁrm to the total abolition policy. For example,

we read in the February issue of The A. V that the
President of the American Anti— Vivisection Society, in
a speech delivered at their annual meeting, quoted with
approval the following ‘Re— statement of Policy” by
the National Anti—Vivisection Society, of Chicago :—«

“ We are unalterably opposed to compromise, appeasement
or the yielding of a single point for the sake of expediency. We
seek total abolition of Vivisection and nothing less. The society
was organised with that as its goal and we are prepared to
stand or fall with that as our single objective.”

 

 

@hituarp

Mr. ’H. G. CHANCELLOR

It was with great regret that we read the Press
announcements of the death of Mr. H. G. CHANCELLOR,
Who pasSed away on March 14th at his home in
Crouch End, London, at the age of 81.

Mr. Chancellor, who was a
Vice—President of the B.U.A.V.,
will beremembered for his kind-
liness and keen interest in many
good causes, which gave him a
large circle of friends, among
whom he will be sadly missed.

During the ‘ time that Mr-
Chancellor was Liberal MP.
for Haggerston—from 1910 to
1918—he seized every opportu—
- nity to , advance the anti—
Vivisection cause in the House of Commons, and he
soon became known for his persistency in subjecting
the Government to a never—ending stream of questions
on subjects related to our movement.

Space does not permit of~ an adequate summary
of the work done by Mr. Chancellor when holding the
position of Parliamentary Representative of the
B.U.A.V., but three of the most important events may
be named—his introduction into the House of Commons
of our Bill for the Total» Abolition of Vivisection ; his
arrangement for an inﬂuential deputation representing
many societies, and including Dr. Hadwen as repre—
sentative of the B. U. A. V, to give to M1. Lloyd George
the case against the annual payment of grants foi
“ research’ under the provisions of the National In—
surance Bill; his very impressive speech, occupying

 

O

 

one hour in the House of Commons, on February 9th,
1915, during the debate on inoculation in the Army.

The B.U.A.V. will always be grateful for Mr.
Chancellor’s championship of the anti—Vivisection cause,
and we will conclude this memoir with quotations from
his opening remarks when he kindly presided over a
meeting of the B.U.A.V held in the Caxton Hall on
June 28th, 1940. After referring to the war, he intro—
duced our cause as “part of the great humanitarian
development.” This is what he said :—~—-

“ Never was it so necessary to stand for the principles under—

lying this movement which is part of the great humanitarian

development; the feeling of brotherhood, of mercy, of pity,
and the elimination of all those things that make for war and
for hatred and for division. I for my part do not believe it
possible that the principles for which we stand can go down
for more than a very short time. I feel that they are imperish—
able ; that they are part and parcel of the nature of man, and
that the time will come when even those who have tried to

eliminate all the moral and spiritual feeling which has formed ‘

our civilisation will repent and ﬁnd how utterly mistaken they
have been.”

Towards the end of his speech, Mr. Chancellor said 2——

“ We stand here against the practice of Vivisection because
we say, ﬁrst of all, that Vivisection is morally wrong; that
the inﬂiction of avoidable cruelty is a wickedness in the sight
of God and from all moral points of view—that is the ﬁrst
thing—~and because it is wrong we say the consequences of doing
wrong must be evil and not good, and that the seeking of good
through the doing of wrong is an offence in the sight of God
and of men. And so with that basic principle wbhich never
needed publishing so much as during the last few years when
morals and religion are being driven out of country after country
on the Continent, when freedom and truth are trampled upon,
when Dictators rejoice in falsehood and in cruelty,I say our
principles never needed publishing more than they do to- -.day”

 

 

 

 

 

 

.
32.3%: A .




 

 

. A“;

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

May—J u n e, | 945

 

 

THE ABOLITIONIST \ l9

NOTES AND COMMENTS

Book about Dogs

A book recently published by Victor Gollancz Ltd.,
price 7/6 net, is entitled Tails and Tales, by Nancy
Price.

The book, which contains 16 plates, is described
in the Foreword as “ a patchwork of facts and fancies ”
about dogs. These references to man’s most intimate
and devoted animal friend have been taken from a wide
range of literature, which accounts for their wonderful
variety. As the author says that she “ mentions but
a few of the thousands of dogs held in memory,” we
must congratulate her on the selection she has made.

From our point of view the inclusion of a reference
to the Brown Dog of Battersea justiﬁes special com—
mendation and comment.

The Brown Dog was of the nondescript terrier type
and had died after suffering in a laboratory. Many
of our readers will doubtless remember that a bronze
ﬁgure of the brown dog was put up as a memorial in a
recreation ground at Battersea. -This incensed the
medical students, who wished to destroy the memorial,
which had to be guarded day and night by six police—
men, and a special patrol box was erected at the gates
of the gardens. Fights took place between hundreds
of Battersea men and students; and one night 400
mounted and foot police were rushed to the spot to
avert a riot. Numerous arrests were made and ten
medical students were ﬁned £5 each. ' I

In January, 1908, the Chief Commissioner of Police
called upon the Battersea Borough Council to pay £700
a year for the cost of extra police services in protecting
the memorial; and a motion to have the memorial
removed was defeated in the Battersea Council by
29 votes to 5. Later, a newly—elected Council
reversed this decision.

Miss Nancy Price says that ” the little bronze ﬁgure
has now been destroyed,” and we wonder whetherthis
is known as a fact or merely assumed to be the case.

What happened was that in 1911 the memorial was
removed, amid many protests, and put for safety in
one of the Battersea Borough Council’s depots. The
Brown Dog was afterwards reported to be missing ; but
can anybody say deﬁnitely what happened to it 1’ We
should like to think that it may one day come to. light
again and be reinstated as a lasting reminder of man’s
treachery to his faithful friend.

>l< >l< >I<

The Sensitive Guinea-Pig

It was stated in the Daily Express of March 3lst that
a research worker stationed in southern England had
“discovered something strange about guinea—pigs.”

He had been testing a new temperature—raising
drug, and could not understand why the control group
of guinea-pigs started getting temperatures that were
just as high as those in the experimental group fed
with the drug. Eventually, he found the cause to be
the ﬂying bombs. He said :—

“ Sounds incredible, but I’ve proved it beyond doubt. The

guinea—pigs are highly sensitive and in-bred. They just can’t
bear a loud noise.”

Probably, most people would describe the guinea-pig
as a timid, sensitive little creature. But it appears
to have required the effect of the ﬂying bombs to drive
this obvious fact into the mind of the research worker.

 

Milder Measles

An article headed “ 25,000 Cases a Week,” written
by a DOCTOR, appeared in the Evening Standard of
April 4th. ' "

The information was given that there had been
something like 20,000 new cases' ofmeasles each week
since the second week in February, the highest weekly
return being 25,507 cases. .

‘ Despite these ﬁgures, there had been, during March,
only 18 to 24 deaths a week from measles, and the fact
is revealed that “ during the past ﬁfty years measles
has become progressively less severe.” The doctor’s
comment on this was as follows :—

“ Why this is so is anybody’s guess. Better housing and
food and improved conditions generally may have played a
part. Certainly we cannot attribute the improvement to any
speciﬁc method of treatment or prevention.” .

In this respect measles appears to have come into
line with scarlet fever, which is no longer regarded as a
dangerous disease; and again no treatment can be
claimed as the cause of the decline in the death-rate.

Nevertheless, the anonymous doctor, who started
so favourably with the candid admission that the
decline in the death-rate from measles could not be
attributed to any treatment, ends his article with the
absurd claim that “ modern bacteriology is giving the
medical profession surer and surer control of infections.”

A most unwarranted conclusion !

>l< >i< =i<

Senile Research

The Evening Standard Correspondent, writing from
New York, gave the information, published.on March
3lst, that “ Columbia University School of Medicine
has started research to ﬁnd out how people grOw old——
and why.”

A colony of rats and mice, reared under “ ideal
conditions,” is being set up “ to help the investigators,
who will have to wait for two or three years, because
the rats and mice must have time to grow old.”

These “ ideal conditions” include air—conditioning,
uniform lighting, and “freedom from disturbing factors.”
Dr. William de B. MacNider has explained that if
information can be acquired and thoughtfully applied,
” the life span might not only be prolonged but the
effectiveness of older people for both intellectual and
physical tastes might be greatly increased.” '

The idea of trying to ascertain how and why people
grow old by observing a short—lived species of animals
seems sufﬁciently absurd, but to expect to increase the
effectiveness of old people for intellectual tastes by
studying the lives of rodents is simply ludicrous.

Columbia University is not, however, the only
university where this subject is being studied. In the
Daily Sketch of Nov. 8th, 1944, it was reported that
Dr. V. Korenchevsky, the Russian scientist, has been
studying “ geratology ” in the Zoological Department
of Oxford University, and has come to the conclusion
that “senility is a pathological state.” .

In the same newspaper it was announced that Lord
Nufﬁeld had made a gift of £3,000 to the Club for
Research on Ageing. This club, of which Dr. Koren-

l .chevsky is hon. secretary of the English. section, is

 

 




 

20

THE ABOLI TIONIS T

May-—J u ne, I945

 

composed of scientists, whose aim is “ to ﬁnd ways of

giving every man and woman 115 or more years of

healthy life, with every faculty fully retained to the
end.” ,

The Daily Sketch says that “ there will be many
who will watch the destinies of the Club for Research
on Ageing with ever—growing and maturing interest.”

Neatly expressed! But it will undoubtedly require
more than experiments on animals to sustain the
interest of *the public.

>l< =l< >l<

Brains Trust and Vaccination

The Daily Express Touring Brains Trust were asked
at Leighton Buzzard on April 13th, the following
question :—

“ Should vaccination be made compulsory ?"’

This was the answer given :———~

“ So little freedom is left to the individual that
the right to do what one likes with one’s own
body should be preserved.”

The members of the Brains Trust were Commander
A. B. Campbell, Mr. E. Shinwell, M.P., Mrs. Mavis Tate,
M.P., Flying-Ofﬁcer E. McEntee (VV.A.A.F.), and Cpl.
G. Brown. The Question—Master was Leslie Mitchell.

>1: :2: ' ,1:

Penicillin versus Antitoxin

The Wolverhampton Express and Star of April 9th
published a reference to the ﬁrst reported case of diph—
theria cured by penicillin. An eight-year—old boy
taken to the Shrewsbury Isolation Hospital was suffering
so severely from diphtheria that Dr. A. D. Symons,
M.O.H., came to the conclusion that the only chance of
saving the patient’s life was to administer penicillin.
This was done, and the boy went out of hospital, eight
and a half weeks afterwards, cured.

The success apparently achieved in this case by the
use of penicillin seems to indicate the beginning of the
end of antitoxin, upon which so much reliance has been
hitherto placed. It would not only be to the advantage
of mankind but would relieve thehorses of their needless
suffering, if the antitoxin treatment were dropped.

>l< =l< >l<

Animal’s Cry of Pain

The following letter from Miss Yvonne de Leddra, of
5, Villas—on—the-Heath, Vale of Health, Hampstead, was
published in the H ampstead Express of April 13th.

“ On passing the Institute of Medical Research the other
afternoon I was brought to an immediate standstill by the
piercing yell and unmistakably agonised cry of an animal in
great pain. In the warmth of a spring day my blood ran cold
and my own dog stood a short way off nosing the air and staring
nervously at the building. ‘

Although I ,am no sentimentalist or fanatical animal wor-
shipper, looking up at that grim building with its cages and test
tubes glinting in the windows I can but ask what torture and
agony are being inﬂicted on live creatures in the name of research
and humanity. I have always thought, maybe like a good many
others, that all experiments on animals were carried out
humanely, but I shall never forget that cry of possibly a cat or
dog, and even now I cannot believe if torture and pain is being

inﬂicted that it can be allowed to pass unnoticed, no one’s deep ,

concern, the idea being accepted as casually and vaguely as the
statues in the parks.

“ And if by reading this letter a few Hampstead residents are
as startled and shocked out of their complacency as I was, then
perhaps whatever it was that cried so terribly that afternoon
has not cried in vain.” '

 

i

Treatments without Animal Exploitation

We have received a copy of The Humane Home

Doctor, by J. Stenson Hooker, M.D., L.R.C.P., ,L.R.C.S.,
L.S A. - ,
" This book, which was ﬁrst published by the C. W.
Daniel Company Ltd, in 1937, price 2/—— net, contains
brief notes on simple home treatments for the most
common complaints. Alphabetically arranged it is a
useful little book of reference based on the long ex—
perience of a medical man who is now in the 92nd
year of his life.

Dr. Stenson Hooker’s views on Vivisection are so
well known that it is probably unnecessary to assure our
readers that none of the treatments suggested in the
book are connected with orthodox methods depend—
ing upon animal exploitation. , -

- :k z}: :2:
Brain Experiments on Monkeys

We have received from our Perth (West Australia)
Branch a number of notes based on extracts from the
Medical journal of Australia. We print the followmg
note relating to information supplied in the issue dated
5th August, 1944, as an example of the crueltles
revealed 2—— , .

F.» A. Mettler (journal of Comparative Neurology, Oct., 1943)
describes how he stripped certain parts of the brain in rhesus
monkeys (“ unilateral removals of the frontal cortex and
striatum ”) and observed “ the resulting anatomical degenera—.
tion.” . >

“ Until the level of the posterior commissure is reached ”
he found that progressive removals produced “ gradually pro~
gressive degradation in the metor performance . rather
than an abrupt paralysis.” Monkeys were affected In the use
of the hand on the injured side and had difﬁculty 1n feeding
themselves. There was also “ much less spasticity.” Removal
of the “ striatus ” destroyed monomanual feeding.

As the monkeys’ movements and behaviour were. closely
observed and recorded, they must have been kept alive with
mutilated brains for a considerable period of time, and their
sufferings may be imagined. -

:{t :2: >1:

Whooping Cough Vaccine

According to a note in the Nursing Times of March 3rd,
Dr. I. H. MacLean, M.B., in speaking at the Royal
Institute of Public Health and Hygiene, said that
immunisation against whooping cough with the use of
Phase I vaccine was warranted by experiments on
animals, but there was not sufﬁcient evidence to show
what protection it would produce on susceptible
children.

As the last experiments must be on the children, of
what value were the experiments on the animals P

 

 

THE

ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING
on THE

BRITISH UNION FOR THE ABOLITION or

‘ VIVISECTION .

will be held at the
FRIENDS HOUSE, EUSTON ROAD,
, LONDON, N.W.1
on WEDNESDAY, 27th JUNE, 194-5,
at 2 p.m.

 

N.B.-——This Annual Meeting is for Members only.
They will receive the Agenda and a Card of

Admission early in June.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

Mayé—June, I945

,, _...-,..A_ ,n, ~w-.., ._ mw-.—~_—u_.

THE ABOLITIONIST ’ ‘ « 2|

 

+ THE QUESTION or IMMIINISATION”

By LILY LOAT (Secretary, National Anti-Vaccination League). ~

“ HY, if the practice is of no use, do doctors,
Members of Parliament and Local Authorities
support diphtheria immunisation P ”

This question is constantly asked by people who
have to make up their minds whether to have their
children inoculated against diphtheria or not. They
ﬁnd, it extremely difﬁcult to believe that all these
“ authorities ” can be wrong. Even though an examina—
' tion of the results recorded by the Ministry of Health
and local medical ofﬁcials proves to their reasoning
faculties that inoculation against diphtheria does not
prevent that disease and that it may have serious conse—
quences to the health of the child, they are reluctant to
act on these results because, they do not like to range
themselves with a minoritywhich they consider sets
itself up to contradict the assertions of people upon
Whose judgment they wish to rely.

It is curious that the facts should Vcount for so little
and the opinions of certain people should count for/so
much} If, however, the history of this country and
of. other countries is examined it will be found that
in all ages delusions and superstitions have been believed
in by the cleverest and most highly respectedbf persons
regarded as authorities. In medicine there have been
many superstitious practices (some of them disgusting)
which are now completely discarded and people would

laugh at the idea of reviving them in these enlightened "

days, but they were maintained by authorities who
were as trusted and respected as the medical profession
of to-day. If clever and learned men can entertain
beliefs in one age which a subsequent age discards,
what justiﬁcation is there for believing that their
descendants are not equally capable of being deluded P

John Stuart Mill pointed out this capacity of every~
, one—including the cleverest, most scientiﬁc and most
disinterested of mankindwto believe things that subse—
quently appear absurd. He wrote :———

“It often happens that the universal belief of one age——a
belief from which no one was, nor without an extraordinary
‘- effort of genius and courage could, at that time, be free——becomes
to a subsequent age so palpable an absurdity that the only
' difﬁculty then is‘to imagine how such a thing can ever have
appeared credible. ,

Doubtless only a few people are aware that the great
majority of doctors do. not study questions like diph—
theria immunisation. The doctors accept without
question all the statements on the subject that are
issued by- a few “medical research scientists”, some
of whom are employed in the big drug houses which
have a ﬁnancial interest in pushing the system, or by
ofﬁcials of the Ministry of Health. They do not know
that the advertisements boosting diphtheria immunisa—
tion in the public press are not in accordance with the
statements made in the Annual Reports of the Ministry
of Health. In the advertisements the public is told
that immunisation is a “ proved safeguard ” against
diphtheria; but the Ministry of Health denies that it
has ever claimed that inoculation will protect from
diphtheria, and says, in effect, that inoculated children
are less likely to suffer from the toxic effects of the dis—
ease, or to die of it. The Ministry admits having heard
of deaths following immunisation and of cases of ner-
vous disease resulting from the practice; and that not

 

only pain and swelling of the arm, but also con-
stitutional symptoms, may be caused by the inoculation.
In the advertisements which the Ministry sponsors it is
stated quite deﬁnitely that the proCess is “ safe.”

The public is not aware that Government Depart-
ments boost supposed medical discoveries before proof
is forthcoming that they actually do what is claimed
for them. For example, the sulphonamide drugs were
boosted everywhere as marvellous cures for practically
every disease ; itwas only by degrees that admissions
were made that they could cause very serious illness and
that there are conditions in which it is dangerous to
administer these drugs. ’

It has been the same with diphtheria immunisation.
Before there was any proof that Schick—testing and
the inoculation of those who showed a positive
reaction did what the manufacturing chemists claimed,
Dr. Copeman, a medical ofﬁcial at the Ministry of Health,
after getting the advertising agent of the manufacturing
ﬁrm to talk to some London medical ofﬁcers, expressed
the view that it was a system to be encouraged. He gave to
the system the ofﬁcial approval which the manufacturers
needed and although for many [years the Ministry of
Health did not press it upon the public, this acceptance
of the claims of the manufacturers was not likely to be
negatived later on, however Strong the proofs might,
be that those claims were unfounded.

Moreover it all ﬁtted in with current medical ideas.
There was no desire to examine the position critically.
At all the medical schools students were being taught
as a matter of routine that protection from various
diseases could be obtained by inoculation, and were told
nothing of the evidence that was accumulating to the
contrary. The germ theory was accepted as proved
and with the mass of the doctors pushing in that
direction it was very difﬁcult for the few who looked
more closely into the facts and ﬁgures to make their
voices heard. However, while Dr. McNalty was Chief
Medical Ofﬁcer of the Ministry of Health there was little
boosting of diphtheria immunisation, and medical
ofﬁcers on the staff of the Ministry deﬁnitely advised
medical ofﬁcers of health not 'to put pressure on the
public to have their children inoculated.

A change came over the scene with the arrival of

Sir William Jameson as Chief Medical Ofﬁcer, in the year
1940. He had been head of the London School of

Tropical Medicine, a hotbed of belief in all forms of -

inoculation, and he almost immediately started the
campaign for boosting diphtheria immunisation. The
statistics on which he bases his claims are faulty and his
deductions from them erroneous. He ignores evidence
against the system and puts forward small happenings
in special communities which he thinks support his
contentions, but which, when all the evidence is examined,
do nothing of the kind. .

If it be thought that responsible men would not act
in this way, it should be remembered that the practice.
of inoculation with smallpox matter was made a punish-

able offence in the year 1840, although some ninety

years previously the Royal College of Physicians had
declared it to be “ highly salutary to the human race.”

 

 

 

 




 

22 , THE ABOLT TI ONIS T

The practice of bleeding for almost every disease was
universal prior to the nineteenth century; and it is
believed that several famous men were killed by it.
But if at the height of its popularity people had ventured
to question it they would have been told, as the oppo-
nents of diphtheria immunisation are told to—day, that
the greatest authorities supported it.

If it is pointed out that the majority of parents in
particular areas have had their children inoculated, this
cannot be accepted as an argument in favour of the
process. Many of them have been badgered into
permitting it. Medical Ofﬁcers of Health send attractive
literature, at the public expense, to every mother on
her baby’s ﬁrst birthday. Doctors and nurses at welfare
clinics, children’s nurseries, and wherever mothers go,
constantly declare that diphtheria is deadly and that
immunisation will protect. The “ Radio Doctor ”3
boosts the practice on the air, and the BBQ, with
shocking unfairness, refuses to allow opponents of the
practice any right of reply. Knowing little of the
subject the mothers are unable to deal adequately with
this propaganda paid for out of public funds. Diphtheria
is not common enough in any area for the average
parent to know whether immunised children contract
it or not. During the ﬁrst six months of the year 1944
only 503 deaths from diphtheria were recorded in the
whole of England and Wales. In the 126 great towns,
for the eight months ending August 3lst, they averaged
three per town. Diphtheria was, therefore, not a
deadly disease during that period, but parents had no
personal knowledge of the facts.

One ﬁnal word, which is depressing but true. Hundreds
of thousands of people have no wish to ﬁnd out the facts
about matters of this kind. They prefer to go with
the stream. They are irritated when they are told
facts which contradict what they imagine to be the
current opinion. They are- uncomfortable when they
ﬁnd that the truth is quite different from what they

 

May—J u ne, 1945

#4

have been told. They neither ask for proof of medical
assertions nor desire the facts that are offered to them.

However, in all communities there remains a leaven
of people, including some doctors, who are determined
to learn the truth, no matter Where this may lead them ;
and parents should realise that the views of the minority
of duly qualiﬁed doctors who are opposed to immunisation
are more entitled to respect than those of the majority
of doctors who defend it. The minority have studied
both sides of the question and they stand to lose and not
gain professionally by ﬂouting the ofﬁcial credo of
medical orthodoxy.

MEDICAL OFFICER’S FAIR COMMENT
We learn from the Municipal journal of April 13th

that the Annual Reports for 1939, 1940, 1941, 1942 and

1943 of the Medical Ofﬁcer of Health (Dr. G. K. Bowes,
M.A., M.D., M.R.C.P., D.P.H.) for the Borough of
Bedford have now been published.

It is stated that the rates for diphtheria generally
have been below the ﬁgures for England and Wales ;
but Dr. Bowes expresses the opinion that in dealing
with such relatively small populations as that of Bedford
variations due to chance are too great to allow deﬁnite
conclusions to be drawn.

This is a much more sensible View to take than that

of putting forward a reduction in the local diphtheria
rates as an example of the effect of immunisation.

 

 

Subscribers to The Abolitionist are
reminded to notify the Secretary of the
B.U.A.V., or the local Branch Secretary,
of- any change of address.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DIPHTHERIA IIN IMMUNISED ONLY!

On March 9th there appeared in the H ig/z Peale
Reporter an account of a meeting of the Marple Council,

at which County Councillor Sam Taylor asked for the _

number of cases of diphtheria in a recent outbreak;
how many had been immunised; and whether the
cause of the outbreak had been ascertained.

Councillor Mrs. Eastwood, Chairman ,of the Public
Health Committee, replied that nine cases had been
reported, and that all had been immunised. The
County Medical Inspector had visited the school and
seen all the children. The school had then been closed
for a week,‘ disinfected, and the drains inspected.
“ Little more could be done, unless they were prepared
to take a swab from the throat of every person in the
village to ascertain the carrier.”

In reply to a further question, Councillor Mrs. East—
wOodsaid that the Medical Inspector was not of the
opinion that the outbreak was due to any defect in
sanitation; it was carrier-borne.

We may remind our readers that it is not only de—
fective dralns that cause diphtheria; an outbreak

 

may occur under other unhealthy conditions, such as
overcrowding and lack of proper ventilation.

But if it was not possible to ascertain whether there
was a carrier without taking a swab from the throat
of every person, as suggested, how could it be deﬁnitely
stated that the disease had been carrier-borne?

Why not ascer-
tain the chi‘idren’s
views of the so-
called preventive
treatment .7

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

May—J u ne, l 945

THE ABOLITIONIST ‘ 23

 

” INOCULATIONS AND CRUELTIES‘

We supplement the thoughtful article by Miss Loat

0» with information required for answers to three further

questions. ‘

1. “ If the number of cases of diphtheria has fallen
since the immunisation campaigns, what evidence is there
that the reduction is not due to the inoculations .7 ”

ANSWER: According to the ofﬁcial ﬁgures, over
20,000 cases of diphtheria in fully immunised children
have been recorded in Britain. This is positive proof
that immunisation does not prevent children from
having diphtheria.

2. “If the dew/ease in diphtheria be not due to the
inoculations, to what is it due .9 ”

ANSWER: The annual number of deaths from
diphtheria had fallen to a greater extent before the
immunisation campaigns than it has done sinCe. The
evidence therefore appears to show that the recent
reduction in diphtheria is due to the same conditions
that caused the reductions before the general practice
of immunisation. This is supported by the fact that a
similar reduction has occurred in diseases for which
preventive inoculations have not been generally used.

3. Of what are the inoculations against diphtheria

composed, and why do anti-vivisectionists object to them ?'

ANSWER : Of various more or less poisonous products
of the disease, the preparation: of which involves cruelty
to animals. Here is a brief description of them 2——

Diphtheria bacilli nourished on beef broth produce
a poison and this is called Toxin.

Whenever a fresh quantity of toxin is thus obtained
it is “ standardised.” This means that the manufactur~
ers judge of the deadliness of the toxin by injeCting it
into guinea—pigs, and the amount required to kill the
animals in 4 or 5 days is termed the minimum lethal
dose (M.L.D.).

Toxin is used for the Schick inoculation—«a test
employed to determine whether a child is immune or

[susceptible to diphtheria. This test has proved so

fallacious that it has been largely discarded.
Toxin is also used in preparations intended to safe—

. guard children against diphtheria.

The ﬁrst of these preparations to be injected into
children was the T oxin—Antitoxin Mixture (T .A.T .).

The antitoxin which. is mixed with the toxin is
obtained from the blood of a horse. after the animal
has been subjected to a series of injections with in—
creasing doses of the toxin. This serum is used in the
treatment of children suffering from diphtheria. It
proved so ineffective in saving life that it was considered
necessary to introduce a treatment designed to prevent
an attack of the disease. This was called “ immunisation.”

Deaths due to the 'use of T.A.T., and of the anti-
toxin alone, have been recorded in England, America,

‘ Australia, Italy, France, and other parts of the world.

The next preparation to be used was Toxoid, other—
wise known as Formol—Toxoid (F.T.), Ramon’s Toxoid,
or Anatoxine. Toxoid is toxin combined with formalin,

.in order to reduce its toxicity or poisonous nature.

Because of its tendency to cause reactions in older
children it did not entirely take the place of the toxin—
antitoxin.

Then, 'TOXOid—Antitoxin (T.A.M.) was introduced.
This is a mixture of modiﬁed toxin and antitoxin from

 

 

 

 

the serum of a horse. The toxoid, the antitoxin, and
the mixture, are all “ standardised ” by tests on animals.

After severe reactions following the use of this pre—
paration had been recorded, a different form of it was
put on the market, namely, Toxoid—Antitoxin Floccules
(T.A.F.). Although this was thought to be the safest
preparation to use, in the year 1937 the death from
tuberculosis of a child and the severe illness of 23 other
children, following the injections at Ring Irish College,
were reported. ' .

Next came Alum Toxoid (A.T.), which had a tendency
to cause severe general and local reactions, including

. cold abscesses. It “ attained no popularity.”

Alum—Precipitated Toxoid (A.P.T.) is the title of the
product now being boosted by the Ministry of Health
and the Department of Health for Scotland. It is
produced from diphtheria toxoid by precipitation with
aluminium potassium sulphate. Although. it is said
to be quite harmless and "‘ absolutely safe,” numerous
reactions following the injections have been recorded,
including a number of. sterile abscesses. Reactions
are liable to occur in the older children, so the toxoid—
antitoxin mixture has still to be used for them.

In conclusion, it should be noted that each of these
so-called immunising agents was claimed to be harmless
and effective, but each has proved to have a tendency
to cause reactions and has failed as a protection against
diphtheria. They are all “ standardised ” on animals,
whether they contain serum or not.

 

 

Will the public’continue to give him support?

 




THE ABOLI TI ONI S T

. May—J une, I945

_q-r—r—

B.U.A.V. CHRONICLE

®bituarg

We have learned with much regret of the death, on January
2lst, of Mr. H. G. Abel, husband of Mrs. Abel, who was a member
of the Executive Committee and, for many years, Hon. Secretary
of the South London and Croydon Branch, afterwards the
Dulwich Branch. Although Mr. Abel was not a member of
the B.U.A.V., he was strongly in sympathy with our movement,
and we gratefully- recall his services on behalf of the cause.

HEADQUARTERS

Extracts from The Abolitioriisl were reprinted in the Canadian
Abolitionist, January- April, 1945, published by the Canadian
Anti—Vivisection Society, Victoria, BC. (Canada’s ﬁrst anti—
vivisection society) Some excerpts from an article on‘ Clinical
Cancer Research, by D_.r Valentine Knaggs, L.R...,CP pub-
lished in The Abolitiouisi, March, 1940, were reprinted in the
Theosophical Movement, Bombay, 17th January, 1945.

An advertisement of the B U A..V was published in the
Daily Telegraph on March 19th and Ap1il 2nd

The annual contract for the B. U. A. V. advertisement panel
in 100 Sub Post Ofﬁces has been renewed. The posters in 12 of
the London Tube Stations are also being kept up for a further
twelve months.

On February 28th a talk on anti—vivisection was given by
Mr. R. T. Carne to the members of the North Star Youth Club,
Kennington. About forty young people were present and the
talk was followed by questions and discussion.

DONATION
The Secretary of the B.U.A.V. acknowledges with thanks

the receipt, on February 24th, of a donation of ﬁve shillings,
sent anonymously from Manchester.

BRADFORD

The Annual Meeting of the Branch was held on March 24th
at the Mechanics’ Institute Mr. A. Norton was in the chair,
and, after the business proceedings were completed, the
Secretary, Mrs. Clayton Smith, gave an address on “The
Cruelty to Animals Act.” 1

An interesting discussion followed, and a resolution was
passed that the Secretary make every effort to have advertise-
ments for dogs, or other animals, known to be for vivisectors’
requirements, deleted from the local newspapers.

B RISTOL

The Annual Meeting of the Branch was held at the Berkeley
Café, Clifton, on March 15th. There was a good attendance.
The Rev. A. J. Stanhope presided, and said that the reports
for the year, especially ﬁnancially, were exceedingly encouraging.
Mr. Bruce Elsmere gave an interesting address. on “ How
the Public are Misled.” His arguments were most convincing.
Questions were answered by Miss Championand Mr. Elsmere.
After the meeting, sixty-ﬁve sat down to tea. A report of the
proceedings was published in the Western Daily Press.

BROMLEY

The Annual Meeting of the Branch was held at the Central
Hall on February 24th. Mr. Hugh McCleery was in the chair,
and an address was given by Miss Loat. A report was pub—
lished in the Bromley Mercury.

CHISWIGK

The Annual Bazaai of the Branch was held, by kind invita-
tion of Mrs. Hukins, at 31, Hartswood Road, Stamfo1d Brook,
on December 13th and 14th, 1944, and was a noteworthy success,
over £54 being raised for the funds of the Branch.

On March 16th a Psychic Party at the same address was
the means of further augmenting the funds by £3 17s. 6d.

ENFIELD

The Annual Meeting of the Branch was held at Enﬁeld
Highway 011 March 8th. Mi. G. E Barnett was in the chaii
and an address was delivered by Mr. R. T. Carrie.

LANCASTER

The Annual Meeting .of the Lancaster and Morecambe Branch
was held at 19, Mount Avenue, Bare, on March 22nd.

 

 

 

\

LANCING '

The Annual Meeting of the Branch was held at the Women s 7
Institute on Malch 15th. The Rev. William Powell (President)
was in the chair and gave a short address. An interesting
discussion took place on the subject of. Inoculation.

LONDON ,

The Annual Meetingof the London Area Branches_was held
at the Caxton Hall 011 March 15th, with the Rev. Walter Long
in the chair. Mr. G. E. Barnett presented the Report and
Financial Statement fer 1944. At the conclusion of the pro-
ceedings the Chai1man congratulated the meeting on the work
that had been done despite the war conditions.

The members’ meeting was followed by a public meeting,
at which the speakers. were Miss Nancy Price and Dr. B. P.
Allinson. The Rev. Walter Long again presided, but as his
professional duties compelled him to leave before the end of
the meeting, his place was then taken by Mr. W. Tyldesley.

The hall was ﬁlled to capacity, and the meeting was a most
enthusiastic one. Acceding to a request for a recitation, Miss
Nancy Price stirringly recited Henley’ s ”Invictus.” Copies
of her book “ Tails and Tales,’ which she had given for the
beneﬁt of the funds, were sold immediately. Donations were
put in the collecting boxes, and ﬁve new members were enrolled.

LYMINGTON

A Shop Campaign, conducted by Mi. R. T Carne, was held
at Lymington during the week commencing March 12th.

Mr. Carne was enthusiastically helped by the following
members of the local Branch: Mrs. Dawson, Mis. Howard,
Miss Malan, Miss M. D. Wood, and Miss W. Vilorthington.

Results .' New Subscribers, 33 ; Signatures to Petitions, 178.

NEW‘CASTLE-ON-TYNE

On Sunday afternoon, February 24th, Mr. J. A. Turnbull
addressed a local group of Paciﬁsts in the Theosophical Hall
on the subject of “The Modern Inquisition.” About 50
attended, and Mr. John Morley p1esided.A spirited discussion
followed the address.

The Annual General Meeting of the Branch was held on
March 22nd, in the Theosophical Hall, Bar1as Bridge, and
Mi. J. A. Turnbull presided. The ﬁnancial statement 0showed
a very healthy position, and it was generally felt that the pro»
paganda campaign should now be fully embarked upon, a
commencement hav mg l een made by the display of 100 posters.

All ofﬁcers were re— —elected; and Miss S. Ritchie was added
to the Vice— Presidents. A Social Ev ening followed the business,

the arrangements for which were in theD capable charge of Mr

W. S. Purdy. About 50 members and friends attended, and
three new members were enrolled.

SUTTON

The Annual Geneial Meeting of the Branch was held at the
Congregational Church Hall on March 14th, with the President,
Dr. bDorothy Shepherd, M B., Cl1.B., in the chair.

lhe Annual Report showed a good record of work, the cause
having been advanced in many directions. In the business of
the mbeeting an interesting and encouraging item was the elec—
tion of a numbei of clerical vice- presidents.

Miss L. Loat, Miss B. E. Kidd, and the Rev. W. J. Piggott
gave addresses that were listened to with much interest, and
reports were published in the local Press.

WORTHING

The Short Service on behalf of Animals was held, as usual,
on the second Fridav of the month, March 9th, at 13, Railway
Approach. It was conducted by the Rev. C. A. Hall.

The Annuali Meeting of the Branch took place on Maich 2151;,
at Mitchel’l s Restau1ant. About 70 members and friends were
present. The chair was taken by the President, the Rev. C. A.
Hall. Dr Josiah Oldﬁeld and Mr. G. E. Barnett. of Head—
quarters, were the speakers

Dr. Oldﬁeld said that all his life he had fought against cruelty.
111 medical treatment he was opposed to vivisectional methods
We must demand the right to fl eedom f1 om deliberately inﬂicted
torture 1'01 all living creatures.

Mr. Bainett appealed to members to write to M. P. s and to
put questions to prospective candidates.

Tea and conversation brought the meeting to a close.

 

Printed by The Hereford Times Ltd., General Printing Works (T.U.), London and Hereford. May, 1945.

 




