6

.i

is IT NECESSARY TO
CONTINUE THE USE.

OF PONIES DOWN
THE MINES?

By ALFRED BRISCO

Pit pony at work.

'IRST. let me deal with the ethical side of the issue. Is it right to take a pony from its native moors,

where it has lived a wild free life with its fellows, and condemn it for 11f? to WON? ”1 the 10W

roadways of the mine with all its dangers? Sometimes in dry and dusty WOI‘kIDgS' and In others 011
slipperv and rough roads with steep gradients, deep down in the depths Of the 631711-

It may well be argued that if it is good enough for the men surely it is good enough for the ponies.

The. miners, however, are comparatively free
lances. They have the right to say whether or
not they will go down the pits. The men come
up after each shift, to the glorious fresh air, day—
light and sunshine, a good bath, clean clothes and
home life, with their folks. Such is not the case
with the pit pony. He is broken in, and down
the pit he goes at four years of age. He is down
for life, unless he is working at a drift mine, or
unless brought to the surface with some com—
plaint, during a strike, or when he becomes too
old to carry on.

He may be swilled down with cold water
when he is brought from the workings and after—
wards placed in his tiny stall and left in the utter
darkness to eat his “ chop.” I have never see-n a
pit pony comfortably bedded down. > .
That is his life-day in and day out, weeks, PM” by] _ , _ ‘ [Kurt Hu'bscffmmm
months, and years of it, unless he is one of the {By mud 398777113310" of . P‘Ctum Po“ ’

manydhundreds who are killed by accident below Wild and Unbroken.
groun~ .

In making these abOVe remarks, the pits where the very best conditions exist are in mind... In
such pits conditions are- as good as they could be below ground. In others conditions have been found
to be disgraceful.

Ponies have been found working in unﬁt conditions’and grossly overworked. Thousands of pit
ponies are shamefully overworked.

 

Frequently they are double—shifted, which
means that after they have» done a 72;- hours’ shift
with one set of men, with a very short break, they
are taken over by the next shift and worked a
further 7 2}; hours, dead tired, yet urged on by the
men, who must keep up the output in order, to
earn their wages. .

This overworking of pit ponies is not the
exception, as thousands of working miners will.
testify. It is a common practice and common
knowledge. It is not“ illegal to double-shift
ponies.

It may well be asked is it not true that
Government Min-es’ Horse: Inspectors pay periodi—
cal visits to all the pits. and inspect the ponies?

It is true such a totally inadequate system
of inspection does exist, but it is. equally true that

photo by] [Kurt Hubschmann adequate inspection of theponies is absolutely

' ' — im' 0 ' 1 ,
(By kind permzsszon of "Picture Post v, D SSlb e

Penvnnead. First Stage of Captivity.

 




 

I.
“W

The nearest to gaining a true measure of protection for the p-onieswould be to allow certain

persons the pr . .
a Government permit and not be restricted from

work or: at rest. ‘

  

Pony heing broken in.

The condition of two ponies l
exposed will ever remain in my memory,
as a prize scandal and an example of the
sorry plight animals are allowed to come
to when working away out of sight.

These two cases I will only cite,
those of “11k" and “Nigger." “llk,” a
pit horse (see illustration), a veritable
rattle of bones and carrying open sores—-
“,Nigger,” a tiny black pony, totally
blind and wretchedly thin.

At. the time of exposure these two
animals were working in a drift mine—
,hence my ability to see them walked out
from the drift into the open, and the
chance I also got of taking their photo-
graphs.

I reporté’d these disgraceful cases to
”the -Ministry of Mines, who. after taking
ten days to send their report to me, after
I had repeatedly pressed them for it.
informed me that 'my complaint was
“insufﬁciently justiﬁed,” but the report
stated that both the animals in question
were destroyed the day following my
complaint.

There you have» it—destroyed out of
sight and this after my offer, on behalf of
my Society, to take those two unfortu—
nate animals into our Home of Rest for

 

Pony coming out Of coal drift.

ivyilegej’gof making surprise visits to. the ponies down the pitfsi;_, Such‘persons sheii‘l'dﬁihold

going to any part of the pits where ponies'"fare at

Ponies and horses seen working at the pit
bottom, not far from the shaft, or at the end of a
drift, are generally found to compare favourably
with animals at work above ground, on the high-
ways and the streets. '

It is the ponies working iii—bye, away in the
distant workings of the pit, where sides are narrow
and roofs low, where men and ponies have to keep
their heads low, otherwise half stun themselves if
they attemot to throw their heads up. It is these
animals which are in dire need of close inspection.

1 It was my unhappy lot to expose shocking cases
of ponies working in wretched conditions.

 

After 25 years’ work in the pit, this pony was retired

in our Home! of Rest.

Horses, to give them some little recompense for the
wretched exploitation to which they had been
subjected. '

Such cases can, never be forgotten, and, given

the necessary permit, I guarantee ,_ that hundreds

of such cases -waiting for exposure would be
exposed. As long as ponies are allowed below
ground, cases of regular overworking and the work-
ing of unﬁt and very old animals will continue.

To ask for the necessary permit to make
surprisevisitsﬂis ashopeless asrasking forthe moon,
hence the policy of my Society, the National Equine
(and Smaller Animals) Defence League, is to urge
and ﬁght. for, by every ounce of strength at its
disposal, the Total Withdrawal of all Horses and
Ponies from the Mines, their place to be taken by
mechanical haulage.




'P' " , " " '3 .“mn,

But is this policy practicable? Do the many
mines managements who have dispensed With the
use of ponies and have installed some form of
mechanical haulage, state the change—over to be
successful. and right in every respect?

In reply to both the above queries I would
state that, at the time of writing, I have before me
the written statements from men directly engaged
in the management of coal mines (Managing Dire-c-
tors, Agents, Managers, and Secretaries) as to the
superior efﬁciency of mechanical haulage in mines,
compared with the use of pit ponies.

 

From these statements, from personal inter—
“ _ 5, _ views with working miners, and investigation down
Nigger, E30“)! W9 BXBJ'U‘Sed 533mg worked the pits, i am keenly of the opinion that the time

totally blind and wretchedly thin. has now come when the total withdrawal of all
ponies and horses
from th e mines
should immediately
be reﬂected by law.
A time limit should
be ﬁxed giving suf—
ﬁcient t i m e to
o w n e r s to re-
organise their pits
by the installation
of some form of
mechanical haulage
in all cases Where
animals are now
employed.

All the above
authorities state:—
.(1) That they con—

sider mechani—
cal haulage to
be better than
.the employment .
of ponies below
ground.“ " " '
(2) That. they find
m e c h a n i c a l
h a u'l a g e to
be more econo-
mical. ‘
(3) That mechani—
cal haulage is
conducive to 81
s eedier coa ‘ _ . .
Oputput. ’ “ llk,”, pit horse we exposed working in this condition.

 

km“. - 9'

r.

,JJ-a... A.

l

 

 

Let me quote from some 01": these. authorities
actual statements, the originals of which, are upon
my ﬁle and open to inspect10n:—-“

“ It is my opinion that mechanical haulage is better in
all respects.”

“More conducive to speedier and regular output.”

“More conducive to a speedier output and certainly 9
more reliable.”

“ We are of the opinion that mechanical haulage is
safer, particularly as no men travel with the hatches.
Where ponies and drivers are employed there is more
danger attached to the work.”

 

“ There is no doubt that if you want a good output and

PH: pony we rescued from dealer within a steady, mechanical haulage is the most reliable.”

month from leaving pit, ' “Mechanical haulage is the most reliable.”

 




" Mechanical haulage is more efﬁcient in. every respect than horse haulage.”

“‘ Cost of upkeep, sup‘ervision, etc., is less with mechanical haulage.” ,
/ .

“Mechanical haulagemis better in every respléct. Roads do not require to be kept at the same height. 'l.“'he'
running costs are very much less and much more coal can be hauled within a shift.”

“With mechanical haulage you can be assured of deﬁnite results and a definite output.”

“ When a colliery is not working, and mechanical haulage employed, you are free from the attendance of horse-
keepers and horse—feeders, and this is considerable where a large number of ponies are used. Apart from the jore~
going, no one who is a lover of animals and has had the experience of the treatment that ponies receive below
ground, could wish for these little dumb animals to spend their lives in the pits.”

“Personally I do not consider underground work- suitable for ponies, and I have not seen any haulage proposi—
tion yet that a mechanical haulage of one form or another could not be adapted to.”

The mechanical haulage can go 24 hours a day if you have the coal to supply it.’

Need I give further extracts? These are statements of men who have had, in most cases, a life--
time experience of coal mining. Apart from sentiment altogether, here is a very strong case for the
total withdrawal of the ponies.

During my investigations mentioned above I obtained written statements from working miners,
who state that ponies in many pits are shamefully overworked. I guarantee to bring forward many"
working miners who will testify to this, it a guarantee against victimisation ls given.

The ponies have no life at all. From
all I have been told, and have seen,
thousands of pit ponies in this country
pass their lives in hell. It is» not the
miners’ fault. The miners on the whole
want a square deal for themselves and for
the ponies,

Occasionally a brutal case is brought
to light. In all walks of life a brutal spirit
occasionally rears its head, but the miner
compares favourably with any other type
of men handling animals above ground. If.
occasionally horrible cases are exposed, it
is little wonder, considering the life the
men have to endure under some conditions
below ground. Such conditions are apt
to bring out the worst, and would do so
in the case of many of us if we found
ourselves in the same position.

Pony drawing tubs on a good stretch.

Having written the foregoing, I hasten to state that I do not excuse any of the occasional brutal“
cruelty case-s we read in the Press, but the point is, below ground is no place for the ponies! where, I
repeat, adequate inspection is an absolute impossibility. The incarceration for life of ponies is totally
unnatural and an utter violation of their rights. ' AB

_.___.V- _n__——~_.._k~_~_,n.m ._ "nu _.

We roamed the moors when young. mate. With harness hot and heavy,

We sniffed the heather sweet, And limbs that sweat and shake.
Our hearts were young and strong, mate, We strive and pull and stagger

Our limbs were lithe and ﬂeet. With weary hearts that ache.

We basked in summer’s sunshine, Some day 'twill all be ended,
We felt the. cold winds blow. One Shift W111 prove. our last,
We rollicked and we rested And to the surface carr1ed-
With naught to do but grow! We’ll leave the mines—~at last.

But, now we toil in darkness. No more to trip and stumble,

Our eyesight dim—or lost; No more to ﬁght tor breath,
We. know no day, or starlight, Just two old dead pit ponies,

N0 summer’s sun, or frost. Quite ﬁnished—«worked to death.

JANET GRAHAM.

 

 

Copies of this leaﬂet and further particulars and advice showing how you can help in this great reform frown»—
ALFRE'D BRISCO, Organising Secretary.

THE NATIONAL EQUINE (and smaller animals) DEFENCE LEAGUE

(Horse Protection Society . . . Pit Pony League)
Blackwell, Carlisle. Phone: Carlisle 1469.

STEEL mos. (CARLISLE). LTD.

 




