January 19, 1976

Dear Christine,

I want to express my deepest thanks to
you and the Directors of the Animal welfare
Institute for giving me that most coveted of all
awards, the Schweitzer medal.

Now I shall have to keep trying to earn
it every day for the rest of my life:

I also went to thank you for the $500
check-- a most unexpected.and generous gift.
I can think of no better way to spend it than to
give it to the Institute for the protection of
my favorite sea Sprites, the dolphins.

Perhaps we can persuade that casino in
Las Vegas to ”liberate" the dolphin it has kept
imprisoned in a small tank for such a long time.
With every wish for the continuing success
of the Institute,

Sincerely,

97 SIM/<0:

Incl.: $500 check

 




Tel: (212) 832—3200

Rare/1 nimalReliefEﬁort, Inc.

c/o National Audubon Society
950 Third Ave, N.Y., N.Y. 10022

Cable: RARERELIEF NEWYORK

TRUSTEES

SYDNEY ANDERSON
Mammalogy 1
American Museum of
Natural History
CHAPLIN B. BARNES
International Affairs
National Audubon Society
KENNETH BERLIN
Attorney
Paul, Weiss, Rifkind,
Wharton & Garrison
ROLAND C. CLEMENT
Latin American Affairs
National Audubon Society

RICHARD ELLIS
Wildlife Artist

DAVID C. HILL
Endangered Wildlife

ROBERT PERKINS, JR.
Wetlands Preservation
Wildlife Preserves, Inc.

GUY TUDOR
Neo tropical Ornithology

CRAIG VAN NOTE
Political Affairs

OFFICERS

DAVID O. HILL
Executive Trustee

ROBERT S. PER LSTEIN
Secretary

KENNETH BERLIN
Treasurer

MARTHA HILL
Assistant Secretary
Assistant Treasurer

CONSERVATION ASSOCIATE

ROBERT S. RIDGELY

RESEARCH ASSOCIATE

M. PHILIP KAHL

STAFF

ANITA FINLAYSON
Administrative Assistant

29 November 1976

Mr. & Mrs. Roger L. Stevens
1686 34th Street NW
Washington, DC 20007

Dear Christine and Roger:

I am enclosing five documents which relate to President
Daniel Oduber Quiros:

1) My August '76 memo to RARE Trustees on status
of our Costa Rican projects (pertinent sections
indicated in red).

Copy of my letter to Dillon Ripley nominating
Oduber for Getty award.

RARE's 1976 Progress Report (see pp. 1—2).

Copy of letter from Oduber to RARE.

Copy of letter of introduction (for corporate
fundraising use).

Progress on my telephone investigation of Oduber goes well --
I expect to have a report for you by the end of this week.

Thanks for a lovely Thanksgiving dinner.

Warm regards,

 

Enclosures David 0. Hill

WWW/2*
”(C Civil €W"”*‘/‘

(a non-profit, volunteer organization devoted to endangered wildlife)

 




Rare Animal Relief Effort, Inc.

0/0 National Audubon Society
950 Third Avenue. NewYork. NY. 10022

MEMO

To: Trustees, Officers, Staff
From: Executive Trustee
Subject: Status of our three Costa Rican projects

Date: August 9th, 1976

I have just returned from an eleven-day trip to Costa Rica
(JuTy 27-August 6) during which I visited Corcovado and Tortuguero
Nationa] Parks and received detaiTed briefings on Monteverde C10ud
Forest Preserve. I a1$o took with me a check in the amount of
$15,000 for Corcovado which brings to $37,275 our totaT grants to
date for these three projects.

Ken BerTin, who supervises our Latin American projects,
has been unabTe to get away, so I went in his piace. Cost of this
trip was $260.00.

Brief history of NationaT Parks system in Costa Rica:

 

Founded in 1970, the system now encompasses tweTve (12)
parks totaTTing more than 300,000 acres. By far the most ambitious
of these undertakings have been the estabTishment of Corcovado
(86,485 acres) and Tortuguero (51,891 acres) Nationa] Parks. Despite
a very Targe financia] commitment by the Costa Rican government,
these two parks could not have been estabTished without the pTedge
of outside assistance.

This ”outside” heTp has consisted of the f0110wing:

Organization . Amount PTedged Grants to date

 

 

 

Tortuguero: New York Zoo]ogica1 $10,000 $10,000
Society ,
W0r1d Wi1d11fe $10,000 $10,000
Fund .
RARE $10,000 $10,000
$30,000 $30,000

 

Corcovado: Woer WdeTife $80,000 $45,000
Fund* -

The Nature $80,000 $20,000
Conservancy*

RARE* $40,000 ' $25,000

$200,000 $90,000

* Note: These three organizations are cooperating in an effort to raise a
combined $200,000 by the end of 1977. RARE'S share wi11 be $40,000.

 




To give some idea of President Oduber's commitment and
determination regarding this new parks system, you might note that
the fiscal 1976 budget for the National Parks Services's entire
system was $317,647 (2,700,000 colons), and so far this year the
Government has spent $1,647,058 (14,000,000 colons) on Corcovado
alone. The balance of these funds came from other government agencies
after President Oduber decreed that the establishment of Corcovado
National Park was a ”National Emergency.”

 

MONTEVERDE: All reports I got on Monteverde were very
favorable. The Preserve has steadily been expanded and now encom-
passes over 12,000 acres. Because of the patrolling and protection
against hunting, animals seldom seen in years past are coming back
and are now seen regularly. These include deer and tapir. The main
problem at the moment is keeping a good superintendent. Roger Morales,
who is very highly regarded, left to rescue Corcovado when the situa-
tion there reached crisis prOportions last winter. Two other men
followed, but neither has worked out. In the interim periods, Wilfred
Guindon, one of the original Quaker settlers, has fortuitously stepped
in and kept things rolling.

 

There is still one outstanding parcel of land in the Penas
Blancas area (see”Parcel A” on map - APPENDIX 1) which must be
purchased. I was informed that the present landowner, now surrounded
by the Preserve, has just consented to sell and Roger Morales and
”Wolf” Guindon are meeting with him today (August 9th) to try to close
the deal. A review of the books kept at the Tropical Science Center
(TSC) in San Jose revealed that there are probably funds remaining
from an earlier WWF grant to cover this purchase. If not, I have
requested that they cable us immediately.

By pure happenchance, I had a breakfast meeting (and later a
second) with Professor David Green of Monteverde (also of George
Washington University Law School) who has been holding out on the
sale of a strategically important piece of land through which the
road to the Preserve passes, and on which the Information Center now
stands. He is asking an incredible $40,000 for this 40-mazana
(:_68—acre) piece. This represents an estimated tenfold increase over
what he paid for the land in 1970.

I added my arguments to those previously given by Michael
Wright (TNC) and others, but it remains to be seen if we can budge
this parsimoniously pious individual.

TORTUGUERO: I spent two days living with the nine men who
staff the new headquarters/guardhouse which we helped to build. The
Superintendent and I had many long talks which led to a host of
recommendations for changes in operating procedures and policy. I
won't go into the details here. The Parks Service is beset with prob—
lems trying to prevent logging and poaching. This is mainly the result
of not having sufficient funds to buy out the squatters who inhabited
the land before the Park was established. There are an estimated
40-50 families living within the Park boundaries at present, and

 

 




until the money can be found to purchase these properties and relo-
cate the inhabitants, enforcement and protection will continue to
be very serious problems.

An immediate and more easily corrected problem concerns
improper boats and motors too large to navigate small waterways with
the result that patrolling is spotty and wholly inadequate. This is
compounded by the intermittent supply and high cost ($1.00/gallon)
of gasoline, along with the high consumption rate of the three 25h.p.
engines which are the mainstay of the fleet.

I have suggested the immediate purchase of two new boats .
and an additional 6.h.p. outboard motor to become the primary
patrolling craft. I have requested, and will study, specifications
on such craft and will be passing my recommendation to RARE's
Board within a couple of weeks (I hope). Without adequate patrol-
ling, there might just as well be no Park at all.

On the plus side, I found the young guards interested and
possessing positive attitudes about their jobs. The new building,
about a month away from completion, is attractive and practical.
Park boundary markers, although presently insufficient in number,
are handsome and project a very professional image. The electric
generator is first—rate, but the radio is of poor quality and is
unreliable. The relationship between Parks Service personnel and
the staff of “Casa Verde“ (Archie Carr's turtle research station)
is cordial and cooperative. I was favorably impressed with Juan
Miguel Sanchez, the new Superintendent at Tortuguero of 22 days.

CORCOVADO: Superimposed against the recent history of the
area where there have been two murders associated with the estab—
lishment of the Park, as well as two airplane crashes, things are
now vastly improved.

A farm purchased as part of the $1.7 million squatter re—
moval program serves adequately as Park headquarters, and there are
now two sub-stations (one extremely primitive). The isolation of the
Park creates immense, and very costly, logistical problems where
virtually everything has to be flown in. A very poor landing strip
serves the headquarters, and a sandy tidal flat permits service to
the Llorona station -- at low tide only.

There were between ISO—I70 families living within the Park
when it was established last October 3lst, and to date all but about
56 have been removed. I was informed that by the middle of this month
all were expected to be gone. The Park employs 7 guards, I cook,

2 laborers, and 1 liaison man in San dose, in addition to a super-
intendent, Alberto Salas, and his assistant, Fernando Rojas.

 




Once the squatters are gone, the enforcement problems at
Corcovado will be minimal due to the isolation of the area. The
not-too-distant future of this fantastically beautiful and wild
park looks very bright. Perhaps the only sour note is that gaining
the security of this area, against incredible odds, has exhausted
the energies and resources of the Parks Service, so that all the
other Parks have suffered accordingly.

MEETINGS:' Since more than half of my time was spent
seeing pe0ple to discuss park problems and fund—raising, it seems
appropriate to mention the more important of these.

ALVARO UGALDE - My host in Costa Rica. Thirty year-old
Director of the National Parks Service. Capable, respected,
and dedicated. He enjoys the full confidence of the President.

Dr. JOSEPH TOSI - Administrator, TrOpical Science Center.
Highly respected tropical ecologist. Our “agent” in Costa
Rica. Deeply involved with Monteverde.

PRESIDENT DANIEL ODUBER - Impressively well informed and
sensitive to the key issues surrounding tropical ecosystem
conservation. Totally committed to ”enlightened” land use
principles and the successful devel0pment of the National
Parks program.

Ms. CHANTAL BLANTON - An American working for TSC and
keeping tabs on all RARE's affairs. (We pay arof her salary.)
She is invaluable, and very capable.

Mrs. KAREN FIGUERES - Wife of former President Figueres.
She is influential and interested in conservation.

Ms. ANNA SAGANEZ - Program Director, AID (c/o American
Embassy). Interested, helpful.

Dr. LUIS LIBERMAN — President's Staff, Office of Planning
and Economic Development. Interested, helpful.

MANUEL BARRERA - SecondSbcretary (Economic Development),
American Embassy. -

Sr. GUILLERMO CRUZ B. — Board member of Caribbean Conservation
Foundation, and executive, Republic Tobacco Co.

Dr. PAUL ZAHL - National Geographic Society.

NILFRED GUINDON - Acting Superintendent, Monteverde Cloud
Forest Preserve.

 




SUMMARY and CONCLUSIONS:

 

.1

It was not long after my arrival that I came to the conclu-
sion that only money, and lots of it, could solve the Parks Service's
most pressing problems and insure its survival -- more money than the
' conservation community in the U.S.A. could ever be expected to raise.
Furthermore, the need is immediate, not long-range. The Parks Service,
in my view, needs $4,000,000 over the next two years to get itself on
firm ground. The Costa Rican government could well manage after the
huge initial start-up costs are met.

Once the above realization was faced I spent the remainder
of my time inquiring as to how we might best get A10 to donate
$4 million to this program. President Oduber offered his full support,
volunteered to carry the application personally to Washington, and
pledged $1 million from his government.

The mechanics of this have now been set in motion. Much
remains to be done both in San Jose and in Washington.

FOLLOW—UP TASKS FOR RARE:

 

General
1) Publicity - TIME magazine and New York Times
2) Write Dillon Ripley to nominate President Oduber for
Prize.
Xerox and IBM for free copying service for N.P.S.
President of Cessna for donation of Cessna 206.
President of Piper for donation of Cherokee Six.
President of American Motors for donation of 6 Jeeps.
President of Johnson for donation of 6h.p. motor.
Take an ad out in Yachting for donation of 40' steel
huller for Corcovado. '
9) Track down Bill Wendt of U.S. National Park Service for
consulting work for C.R.N.P.S.
10) Coordinate equipment solicitations with Michael Wright.

 

AID Application

1) Measure sympathy in Washington.

2) Have Ken Berlin solicit help from Theodore Sorensen of
Paul, Weiss. ,

3) Find out exactly what kind of information is required
in application.

4) At appropriate time, have VIP's write supportive letters.

.—-—-’5) Contact Senators Kennedy, Humphrey, Mondale & Case (friends

of Oduber who know Costa Rica and parks).

 

Tortuguero

1) Meet with Chick Laird.

2) Urge Mike Wright to seek yearly support from Standard
Fruit Co. (gasoline budget a possibility).

 

Corcovado
1) Send breakdown of C.R. government investment to Mike Wright.

 

 




mmmmm/Cw wHOFOQHOm/y Um Z€E<WSUW

I III X
IOIIIIII’.I
I...III.I.‘!
III -.
IDIIIOIIIIIO
I‘DIIIICDI I
IOIUI

I I
II IIIIIIIIIOI
OIIIIIII-IOIOII
u-IIIIII

. .. Axum“.

A...

«2.3» m ...mZb

C
I
II!!!
II...
I

I
III I OI
IIIIIOIIOOD
IOIIDIIOCIII
I
.IIIIIIIIII
OIIIIICIIVIII
III. I I
I OIIOIIIIOOII

I
...

cool.

I.

O I
III. II...
IIOIIIIJIOI

PmOImm_>

IIIOIIVOIQO
QIII I...
O. I t

‘C.I‘I t I“
35' ‘

r» <m2ﬁpz> $3.33..

.. ..o. £25,. mgznmw.

mbz Pﬁzm

 

O‘CIOI

I
DI.

I O.
AIQIIIIDO 0.00....

I'D... IOIII
IAIIIIIOOIIIOIIIIIQIIOIO

I.

IIOIIIOI
O I
V I

'I

 

 

 

.IIQO

OII
IIIIIOQO
I III...

I. I I

I

I
O

 

d
in

IIIOIIIIIIIA

tote-onto.
r-IIOnI-oovo.
I .

0b.:320 .

UIIIIIJII.
....IIOOIOOIIOI

05......

$3.33... mmzcmmo 0m 3236 . ...

II .
I II c
c

.1

Q
OIIOIIIO
IIOIIIUI

2 mmzommo 9059.8

2% Dwo . ...... ... . n . . . ...u.....u...u...... .
... é ... .m mmmcm._w . mm

w I nemzam 4, . :x a: Mu... gm. ..

0 I I I I

I I I I

I I I O I I I I 0 I I I o
p.001. Ivnlovlnolo o I I

 

b

Jul 0
IIIIOOOOII
I'O:0.0.a.t

 




Rare/l nimall <51 elief E ﬁont, Inc.

c/o National Audubon Society
. 950 Third Ave., N.Y., N.Y. 10022

Tel: (2l2) 832-3200
Cable: RARERELIEF NEWYDRK

August 16, 1976

TRUSTEES
SYDNEY ANDERSON

Mammalogy MY‘. S. Dillon Ripley
American Museum of

\u Nmmmeww Smithsonian InStitution
CHAPLIN B. BARNES ‘ Washington, DC 20560

International Affairs
National Audubon Society

KENNETH BERLIN

Attorney ' .

Pau|,Weiss, Rifkind, Dear Ml" ' R1 p] ey '
Wharton & Garrison

ROLAND C. CLEMENT
Latin American Affairs

mmmmAmmmmSmww I would like to submit the name of Daniel Oduber,
$ﬁﬂﬁﬁﬁ§fﬁ3 President of the Republic of Costa Rica, as a worthy

DAWDO.WLL - candidate for the Getty Prize for wildlife conservation.
Endangered Wildlife

OE E s,. . .. . ,.
ShiiggmgggmfR Pre51dent Oduber has exhibited extraordinary leader~

23?::g:wim° ship in giving the very highest priority to the most
anwmmOmﬁMMg) ambitious national parks development program in recent
l§f§i§ﬁﬁﬁf§§$¥N times. In his first year in office (1075) he oversaw the
CRNGVANNOTE acqu151t10n of three new parks, covering areas of immense
HmmmAﬁmm biological significance, and representing a three~fold
OFHCHB increase in park lands. The present system encompasses

DAWDOJﬂLL twelve parks totalling more than 300,000 acres.

Exec utive Trustee

EgﬁEJSPEM§THN As an example of his deep personal involvement with

Kemwnneenuw parks, when the newly established Corcovado National Park
ZZﬁﬁlHuL . ran into huge, unexpected costs relocating squatters who
[hwmm8¢mmw had settled before the Park was established, the President
A”mm”7mmm” declared the program a “national emergency” in order to
COMERVNHONAﬁwCMIE tap the needed $1.7 million to secure the area.
ROBERT S. RIDG ELY

RengCHAngMJE RARE is attempting to help the Costa Rican government
MPHquAHL apply for AID funds to assist the National Parks Service

mAFF meet its extraordinary start—up costs. President Oduber
ANHAquAyaw, intends to carry this application to Washington, personally,
[MmmmmUwAwmmw and has pledged an additional $1 million from his own
government.

I have diScussed conservation philosophy with Presi—

dent Oduber, especially the critical issue of tropical
forest ecology, and I was amazed by his comprehension and

- (a non-profit, volunteer organization devoted to endangered wildlife)

 




Mr. S. Dillon Ripley

is

appreciation of the subject. He should be encouraged in
every way possible. Not only is he a deserving candidate
for the Getty award, but such an award would do much to
stimulate wildlife conservation in neighboring Latin'
America.

President Oduber leaves office in early 1978. Before
he does, he wants to have this new parks system on its
feet and thriving. This necessitates a comprehensive
reevaluation of priorities for a developing country.
International recognition of his farsighted leadership
would help his parks program gain wider acceptance in the
.National Assembly where progress is still measured, to a
large extent, in hectares cleared and cattle on the hoof.

I hope you will seriously consider his nomination.

Incidentally, I have just returned from the AOU
meeting in Haverford, Pennsylvania where I was not sur-
prised to hear glowing and well deserved praise of Bob's
new Panama book. You must be very proud of him.

Sincerely,
. {mammmn an,“

. M. gs!
M fl. '.
1‘0:er sham-§.-mmmmmmﬂm . all a
6”:

.- ”,1 ; r-=-,;.-;{_.16'i‘-.fﬁﬁ zi‘ﬁﬂ
mmin“‘ A - W

DOH/amf , David 0. Hill’

 




@«mm a a ﬁmma 50W %

January 14 , 1976

Rare Animal Relief Effort
c/o National Andubon Society
950 Third Avenue

New York, N. Y. 10022

Gentlemen:

On behalf of all Costa Ricans I want to thank you for your interest and the moral and fi —
nancial support you are giving to all our conservation projects.

We are very proud to believe that in spite of the economic situation of the world, conser—
vation is a very important tool for develOpment. This is the principle in which we base
our actions.

Recently our government has taken a very unique action, the creation of Corcovado Na -
tional Park. This project means the perpetuation of a highly complex natural system co_r_1
sidered by all who have seen it, to be of truly incalculable value to mankind the world over.
It represents the most important conservation enterprise that Costa Rica has ever taken
and has the highest priority for attention. We consider that action, at whatever cost, is
urgent.

During the last two months we have acquired all the land within the park; the National
Park Service is making efforts up to the limits of it's capabilities; I have instructed all
public institutions to collaborate and I am personally involved in the search for funds.
Nevertheless , the cost of this project is beyond our possibilities and we need all the help
the world can give us.

As President of Costa Rica I will do all I can to see the dream of Corcovado turned into

16%,. Please send this message to the world and thank you again for your help.
I

Cor dially ,
DANIEL ODUBER
ych

c.c. Ing. Alvaro Ugalde

 




ﬂea/W we a ﬂ/Mm .2 6m» @m

TO WHOM IT MAY CONCERN:

This letter will introduce Mr. David.O. Hill, Executive Trustee
of The Rare Animal Relief Effort Inc. of New York.

Mr. Hill and.his organization have been playing an active role in
assisting us in our efforts to establiSh a systenlof National Parks here
in Costa Rica. This has been an ambitious progranlwﬁth.the inclusion of
twelve parks totaling more than 308,293 acres since the program.began in
1970.

SuCh an undertaking has placed a heavy burden on our resources, and

we have benefited from.the help of RARE and.other international conservation

organizations in this important endeavor. ‘Wildlife, we feel, belongs to
all the world's people, and.we are trying our best to preserve sufficient
habitat to insure its future.

Any help you could give to Mr. Hill in his efforts to secure equipnent
which will assist us in protecting these areas and their wild inhabitants
'will be greatly appreciated.by me as well as all the people of Costa Rica.

;/” Sincerely,

(t

”WWW President of the Republic of Costa Rica

 




/.

Biographies — Costa Ricai

5

Daniel ODUBER Quiros (OhdooBAIR),
candidate for the National
Liberation Party (PLN), was
elected President of Costa Rica ‘
by a 43.4 percent plurality of the
vote on February 3, 1974. He was
inaugurated on May 8, 1974.

Daniel Oduber was born on August
25, 1921 in San Jose. He holds a
degree in accounting and law from
the University of Costa Rica and

a master's degree in philOSOphy
from McGill University in Montreal.

In 1948 he helped to found the
Social Democratic Party, the fore~

«11““Au no: «LIA/x “T KT r‘ith-rnrq

J. “J‘JJUJ- VJ. ULAV .L “LI I \A V wv‘. v v“

for a year as secretary general

of the junta that resulted from

the 1948 revolution. Active in

PLN politics from the outset, he 4

has served as secretary general of the party on several
occasions. He has also served as Costa Rican Ambassador
”to the U.N. and as EurOpean Ambassador at large.

Oduber was elected for a four year term to the unicameral j$W”
Legislative Assembly in 1958 where heﬂsggggd as partywwhipwmwtﬂ"

In 1961, after an unsuccessfullyjattempt to get the PLN
Presidential nomination for himself, Oduber worked hard

for the party's candidate, who was elected. Oduber was

~appointed Minister of Foreign Affairs under the new

administration. He resigned from that post in November,

1964 to run as the PLN's candidate for the 1966 Presidential
elections. He lost that election but emerged in control

of the party machinery. * '

In 1970 the PLN nominated Jose (Don Pepe) Figueres as its
'Presidential candidate and Oduber ran as the first

candidate on the party slate for San Jose for the Legislative
Assembly. Both Figueres and Oduber were victorious.

"Oduber is married to the former Marjorie Elliott, the
'daughter of a Canadian diplomat. The Odubers have one
adopted son, Adrian.~ ‘

9‘-

 




Terence A. Todman I Ambassador to the Republic of
- Costa Rica

\ .
.20 I“. ILW' «QC->15 M

Addressed as: Terry

J...“ 1A maﬁa I)... a

,
. r 1
wAt-“nn-«n N-.- was-.. J-Jw'da'urJ-mlulr...ado’n.~ .u-bwn_....

in"

.1;

.L 1'
I. _ v .5 i
s — ' «
A , . ‘ <~ .
.,. ‘ l f - S. ‘ Q
-' .‘ ".. . .. I , 5,, ‘ . . .
' Jug-0"” mMQ-lhEarLJ . i: . I’- '§". *'*-.o-. “J‘AW’HNL‘I. ‘- yak ‘P. » .

‘

Terence A. Todman has been A1.bassador to Costa Rica
since March 1975. Prior to his assignment to San Jose,
Ambassador Todznan a Career minister was Arba.ssador to
Guinea. He has a so bee tn Ambassador to Chad, Country
Director for Eas t Africa n Affairs, and Deputy Chief of
_Mission in Lome, Togo. Ambassador Todman has previously
served in Sub-Sahai ran and North African posts and in
‘India.

During Ambassador Todman‘ Guinea, relations
between Guinea and the United . '7 dily improved.
He has faced a LuAbor ot eiE-- « '- . , incl ading
difficult PL 4Q 80 negotiation

S

H <.' U)

rt (D rt
.04 '

0

Born on March 13,
Islands, ,Abassador Todm
Inter—American U iversitn
Public Administrat iion
Todman is married to the for:n

Thomas, Virgin

a B.A. from the

Rico and M.A. in
University. Ambassador
is Weston” ’

p...
9..

(D 24°
U1
1‘

'\

H

 




 

 

SCHWEITZER AWARD —-—Costa Rican President Daniel Odub—
. er accepts the Albert Schweitzer Medal from Sen.. Hubert
‘ Humphrey right, at the Capitol in Washington, Wednesday.

The. medal is awarded annually by the Animal Welfare Insti-

D‘,‘ mum—H...

tutwgf wasmngton, D. C. Oduber was honored for his success

"glut. ,, l

'. in creating a 300,000-acre network of natonal parks in his;
VCentralAmerican nation. " UPI

5“

v

 




.boclground

'UOTEBS

Costa Rico

 

department of stole * march 1975

 

GEOGRAPHY

Costa Rica is located in a narrow
section in southern Central America
between Nicaragua and Panama. It is
the second smallest Central American
republic.

The country is comprised mainly of
high, rugged mountains and hills
drained by numerous streams and
rivers. Extensive forests cover about
two-thirds of the area. There is a rela-

OFFICIAL NAME:

tively wide coastal plain in the east
and a narrower plain on the Pacific
coast. A volcanic mountain system
composed of three ranges extends the
length of the country with elevations
in the southern Talamanca range
reaching almost 13,000 feet above sea
level.

The climate of Costa Rica is inﬂu-
enced strongly by its tropical location
and by the adjacent warm ocean
waters. The most important control on

Republic of Costa Rica

temperature variation is that of eleva-
tion. At some lowland locations, mean
maximum temperatures reach the low
90’s, while in the highlands, where
most of the people live, the mean max-
imum temperatures are usually in the
70’s or low 80’s. Costa Rica has only
two seasons: the wet season (May-
November) and the dry season
(December—April). The Caribbean
plain, however, receives heavier rain-
fall throughout the year.

 

PROFILE

Geography

AREA: l9,7'00 sq. mi. (slightly smaller
than W. Va.). CAPITAL: San José (pop.
215,422).

People

POPULATION: 1.9 million (1973 est.).
ANNUAL GROWTH RATE: 2.7% (1973).
DENSITY: 95 per sq. mi. ETHNIC
GROUPS: Spanish, other Europeans,
Mestizo, Negro, American Indian, Chinese.
RELIGION: Predominantly Roman Catho-
lic. LANGUAGES: Spanish, a Jamaican dia-
lect of English (used near Puerto Limbn).
LITERACY: 89%. LIFE EXPECTANCY:
69 yrs.

Government

TYPE: Democratic republic. INDE-
PENDENCE: September 15, 1821. DATE
OF CONSTITUTION: November 7, 1949.

BRANCHES: Executive—President
(Head of Government and Chief of State;
elected for a single 4-year term), two Vice
Presidents, Cabinet (currently 11 Ministers),
Council of Government (President and Min-
isters). Legislative—unicameral Legislative
Assembly (57 deputies elected to a single

4-year term). Judicial—Supreme Court of
Justice (17 Magistrates elected by Assem-
bly).

POLITICAL PARTIES: National Libera-
tion Party (PLN), National Unification
(UN), National Independent Party (PNI),
Party of Democratic Renewal (PRD), Social-
ist Action Party (PASO). SUFFRAGE: Ob-
ligatory over 18. POLITICAL SUB-
DIVISIONS: 7 Provinces, subdivided into
cantons and districts.

FLAG: Two blue horizontal stripes top
and bottom, two white inner stripes, and a
wide red center band with the country’s
coat of arms.

Economy

GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (GNP):
$1.125 billion (1973 current prices). AN-
NUAL GROWTH RATE: 22% (1972-73
current prices), est. 4% (1974, real terms).
PER CAPITA INCOME: $625 (1973). PER
CAPITA GROWTH RATE: 20% (1972-73
current dollars), est.l.7% (1974 real terms).

AGRICULTURE: Land 50%. Labor
49%. Products—coffee, bananas, livestock,
cacao, sugar, basic grains, forestry.

INDUSTRY: Products—processed foods,
beverages, wood, chemicals, textiles,
tourism.

NATURAL RESOURCES: Forests,
bauxite, manganese, hydroelectric power.

TRADE: Exports—$342.2 million
(1973): bananas $96.2 million, coffee $94
million, industrial products $89.9 million.
Partners—US. $115.1 million (34%), Cen-
tral American Common Market» (CACM)
$70.5 million, Federal Republic of Germany
(F.R.G.) $44 million. Imports— $455.4 mil-
lion (1973): transport equipment, machin-
ery, paper products, electrical machinery,
ferrous metal. Partners—US. 36%, CACM
18%, Japan 8%, F.R.G. 6%.

OFFICIAL EXCHANGE RATE: . 8.54
colones=US$ 1.

ECONOMIC AID RECEIVED: Total—
$490 million (loans and grants since 1949):
IBRD $23.5 million (FY 1974), [DB $16
million (FY 1974). US. only—$13.7 million
(FY 1974): AID loan $7.9 million, AID
grant $1 million, Food for Peace $0.5 mil-
lion; Peace Corps $0.77 million; Ex-Im Bank
$3.5 million.

MEMBERSHIP IN INTERNATIONAL
ORGANIZATIONS: U.N., Organization of
American States (OAS), International Mone-
tary Fund (IMF), International Bank for Re?
construction and Development (IBRD),
CACM, Inter-American Development Bank
(IDB), Rio Pact, oﬂler regional groups.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 
 
    

 

   
 

  

 

 

 

     
  
 
 

   
  
  
 
 
    

    

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

86 LAGO DE 85 I.
eta NICARAGUA
'%-
—1 1 1 3,
CARIBBEAN SEA
“were Waite! ,\ \o
Arenal Villa Pu'erto ‘
Quesada‘rr” . V'eJO
:Ie ; .Guacimo
,3 , ﬂ / _.
EWWW ' S i q u i rr
F0 Bariblggca i a \ imbn 10-—
p enas ‘ .......... .1 - TurnalbaJy ,3;
DE ----- SAN, agiii‘iﬁ’f
Santiago” JOSE/y“
San Ignacio“ I
NICOYA
‘ -' San Marcos \
fgg-{ta’irﬁg‘ WK K
9 /’ ﬁ/
Puerto meme-i 258 n Isidro ,1
3 ’ Dominica! ‘E/¢\
PA CIFI C .\
\\ "berg? \
-9 “‘1 Palmar
W EW\J/
OCEAN g’
COSTA RICA ./
. j? m/\, * z
\ \agplfito , Coi'iredor
. [ Gozrovrk .1 ~ m ‘ “‘3 .,
WWW International boundary \ Qt: ' , i L = " "
6:) National capital \ .PU9’l-0" , . i Fir
Jimenez Vim
~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ a ------ Railroad j ) jamgf I" .
o 1 mm... \\m ;—- ’ "
3 {4:wa {ﬂame
50 W/JMWM 4W Armuelles
a? ”J 1 ?
(L l 210 49 Miles ) 35
-8 - <5 ' 2b 4'0 Kilometers m, . /+/ “imam” '«a‘ MW...“ .......... 3 i
e7°oe*\\crfazér.‘i3i 3o
. W l 3 3o _
8‘6 8‘5 84 is)
517523 2—75
. 9 ¢ 0 ’
pEopLE Limon in the Caribbean. was a Spanish Crown Colony from

Unlike its Central American neigh—
bors, Costa Ricans are overwhelmingly
of European descent, predominantly
Spanish. The indigenous Indian popu—
lation numbers about 5,000, a substan-
tial decline from the 25,000 Indians
who inhabited Costa Rica at the time
of the first Spanish settlement in
1522. Negroes, descendents of Jamai-
can workers who immigrated to Costa
Rica in the late 19th century, consti-
tute the only significant minority
group. They number about 30,000 and
are centered principally around Puerto

Costa Rica has placed great empha—
sis on education for many years and its
literacy rate is one of the highest in
Latin America. Some 84 percent of
the school age population are enrolled
in primary school. Most Costa Ricans
continue to live in rural areas, and San
José is the only city of over 100,000.

HISTORY

Christopher Columbus discovered
what is now Costa Rica on September
18, 1502, on his fourth and last voy-
age to the New World. The territory

1522 until- independence. The Span-
iards who arrived in the early 16th cen-
tury found no readily exploitable
mineral wealth among the country,S
resources. They tried to establish the
usual encomienda system based on

grants 0f hugh expanses of land com-_
plete with resident Indians to work the

land. However, the Indians, although
never very numerous, proved to be
intractable and fiercely resisted efforts
to be exploited. A Spaniard in Costa
Rica, therefore, found himself to be a
colonist and not a conqueror; he had
to work his own land because there

 

 

 

(P

 

 

(




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

READING LIST

These titles are provided as a general
indication of the material published on
this country. The Department of State
does not endorse the specific views in

runofficial publications as representing
the position of the US. Government.

American University, Area Hand-
book for Costa Rica. Washing-
ton, D.C.: US. Government
Printing Office, 1970.

John Patrick Bell, Crisis In Costa
Rica. University of Texas Press,
1971.

Biesanz, John and Mavis. Costa
Rican Life. New York: Colum-
bia University Press, 1944.

Busey, James L. Notes on Costa
Rican Democracy. Boulder:
University of Colorado Press,
1962.

Costa Rica. Washington, D.C.: Pan
American Union, 1966.

Denton, Charles F. Patterns of
Costa Rican Politics. Boston:
Allyn and Bacon, 1971.

Gordon, Jerome B. “Labor Mobil-
ity and Economic Growth: The
Central American Experience—
Costa Rica and El Salvador.”
Economic Development and Cul-
tural Change, v. 17. University
of Chicago, April 1969.

Heath, Dwight B. “Costa Rica and
Her Neighbors.” Current His-
tory, V. 58. Rand McNally, Feb.
1970.

Charles P. Loomis et al., eds.
Turrialba, Social Systems and
the Introduction of Change.
New York: Glencoe, 1953.

 

 

 

was no supply of Indian labor to work
the land for him. As a consequence,
there evolved a system of poor, small
landholders cultivating their own land.
The involuntary egalitarian poverty of
the small farmers, the ethnically and
linguistically homogeneous popula-
tion, and the relative isolation of the
area from the centers of Spanish 0010-
nial rule were factors which contri-
buted to the growth of an independent
and individualistic agrarian society.
After Costa Rica achieved indepen-
dence in 1821, the isolation and pov-
erty which marked colonial existence
gradually diminished. The introduction

of the coffee-growing industry in the
early 19th century and banana cultiva-
tion in the late 19th century opened
important new sources of wealth.
Some Costa Ricans accumulated large
fortunes and class differences began to
emerge. But the experiences of the
17th and 18th centuries left their im-
print on the nation’s social and polit-
ical attitudes.

' The elections of 1889 are generally
considered the beginning of the
modern political era in Costa Rica.
Those elections—the first truly free
and honest in the country—consti-

tuted a turning point in the develop?

ment of democracy. Since 1889 there
have been only two significant inter-
ruptions in constitutional government:
the 30-month dictatorship of Federico
Tinoco which began in 1917, and the
revolution of 1948, which broke out
after the Legislative Assembly an-
nulled the disputed presidential elec-
tions. The revolution, led by J osé
Figueres Ferrer, was followed by 18
months of rule by a government junta,
which presided over preparation of a
constitution. The victorious candidate
of the 1948 elections was inaugurated
in 1949 and served a full term.

SinCe the revolution there have
been six presidential elections in Costa
Rica and only in 1974 was the candi-
date of the party in power successful.

GOVERNMENT

According to the Constitution of
1949, Costa Rica is a democratic re-
public. The government is divided into
three branches: executive, legislative,
and judicial. The relative power of the
legislative branch within the govern-
ment structure is well developed. Exec—
utive power, vested in the President, is
somewhat limited by Latin American
standards, although the President re-
mains the indisputable center of
power. Elections for the President and
deputies of the Legislative Assembly
are held every 4 years. The electoral
process is under the control of the
Supreme Electoral Tribunal, which
since 1949 has had complete inde-
pendence in carrying out its function.

The President and two Vice Presi-
dents run for office on the same
ticket. A constitutional amendment

passed in 1969 prohibits the reelection
of former Presidents; however, it spe-
cifically excepted those who were al-
ready ex-Presidents at the time the law
was passed.

The unicameral Legislative Assem-
bly is elected at the same time as the
President and Vice Presidents on the
basis of proportional representation.
Deputies cannot be reelected for suc-
cessive terms.

Judicial power is exercised by the
Supreme Court of Justice and by sub-
sidiary courts established by law. The
17 Magistrates are elected for 8-year
terms by the Legislative Assembly.

Government at the provincial level
is not highly developed; there are no
legislatures, and executive authority is
exercised by a Governor appointed by
the President.

In addition to the traditional
branches of government, the Costa
Rican governmental structure, since
1948, has come to include numerous
autonomous state agencies enjoying
substantial independence from the
other branches. Among others these
include the nationalized commercial
banks, the state insurance monopoly,
and the Social Security Agency. An
unusual feature of the Constitution is
the proscription of the army as a per-
manent institution, although military
forces may be organized for national
defense or by hemispheric agreement.
Public order is preserved by police
forces—a 2,800-member Civil Guard
and a 2,300-member Rural Assistance
Guard.

Principal Government Officials

President—Daniel Oduber Quiros

First Vice President and Minister of
the Presidency —Carlos Manuel
Castillo

S cc 0 n d Vic e Pre sident—Fernando
Guzman Mata

Ministers

Foreign Affairs—Gonzalo Facio
Segreda

Economics, Industry and Commerce—
Jorge Sanchez Mendez

Government—Edgar Arroyo Cordero

Finance-Porfirio Morera Batres

Public Security—Mario Charpentier
Gamboa ‘

Agriculture—Hernan Garron

 




 

 

Costa Rica’s Legislative Assembly

Labor—Francisco Morales Hernandez

Ambassador to the U.S. and OAS——
Rodolfo Silva Vargas

Ambassador to the U.N.—Fernando
Salazar Navarette

Costa Rica maintains an Embassy in
the U.S. at 2112 S. Street, NW.,
Washington, DC. 20008.

POLITICAL CONDITIONS

The leading political party in Costa
Rica since ,the 1948 revolution has
been the National Liberation Party
(PLN) founded by José Figueres
Ferrer, who served two terms as Presi-
dent and is currently PLN president.
The PLN and a coalition of anti-PLN
parties joined in a formal coalition and
won alternate Presidential elections
until 1974. The elections of February
1974 saw a loosening of traditional
party ties and the emergence of several
dynamic minor parties, the National
Independent Party (PNI) and the Party
of Democratic Renewal (PRD). As a re-
sult, PLN candidate Daniel Oduber was
elected President with 43 percent of
the vote while the coalition National
Unification (UN) candidate received
30 percent. For the first time in its
history the PLN failed to win an As-

sembly majority, gaining 27 of the 57
seats. The UN won 16 seats, the PNI 6,
and the PRD 3. The Socialist Action
Party (PASO), the electoral vehicle of
the Communist party, retained its two
Assembly seats. The next elections are
scheduled for February 1978.
President Daniel Oduber, who was
inaugurated on May 1, 1974, has an-
nounced the intention of his adminis-
tration to improve the lot of the com-
mon man, particularly in rural areas,
and to centralize and streamline gov-
ernmental bureaucracy. The principal
economic and social legislation of the
0 d u b e r ad ministration —-the Family
Assistance Law—was passed by the As-
sembly in December 1974 and will in-
crease nutritional, health, and social
services to the poor. The Oduber ad-
ministration has also had to deal in its
first year with serious inﬂation and
balance-of—payments problems.
Throughout its history Costa Rican
political life has contrasted sharply
with that of its neighbors and most
other Latin American countries. It has
steadily developed and maintained
democratic conditions and has an
orderly constitutional government.
Several elements have played a key
role in this advancement, among them

educational opportunities, enlightened
government leaders, comparatively
high economic levels, and ﬂexible class

‘ lines.

ECONOMY

Costa Rica has Central America’s
highest per capita gross national pro-
duct and most evenly distributed na-
tional income. The rate of population
growth has decreased markedly from
one of the highest in the hemisphere
during the 1960’s to 2.7 percent to-
day.
Although industry is becoming in-
creasingly important, agriculture is still
predominant, employing about half
the labor force. The country is also
heavily dependent on agricultural pro-
ducts for its export earnings; bananas
and coffee accounted for 58 percent
of the 1973 total. Since joining the
Central American Common Market
(CACM) in 1963, Costa Rica’s trade
within the organization has increased
substantially. Industrial exports in
1973 were sold largely to CACM coun-

tries.
Improved prices of export com-

modities in 1973 significantly in-
creased foreign exchange reserves and
diminished balance-of—payments pro-
blems. However, increased costs of
petroleum (the country must import
all its petroleum needs) and other im-
ports during 1974 have negatively af-
fected Costa Rica’s balance of pay-
ments and foreign exchange reserves.
The Central Bank in the fall of 1974
increased interest rates and imposed
credit restrictions in order to reduce
imports and the outﬂow of foreign ex-
change.

After many years of relative price
stability Costa Rica has been experi-
encing a domestic inﬂation over the
past 2 years of from 15 to 40 percent
annually. Despite this inﬂation, con-
struction activity increased greatly
during 1973 and early 1974.

Costa Rica has good prospects for
sustained high levels of investment,
particularly in bauxite mining, agri-
business, tourism, and light industry.

Costa Rica welcomes foreign pri—
vate investment. The country has no
outstanding investment disputes with
U.S. firms and tends to approach any
such disagreements on a case-by-case

 




 

basis. Some 8,500 Americans live in
Costa Rica; many are retirees. Pending
before the Legislative Assembly are
several draft bills to control more
closely the business activities of resi—
dent foreigners. Land speculation by
foreigners has been the area most sub-
ject to local criticism.

FOREIGN RELATIONS

Costa Rica is a vigorous and re-
spected member of many international
organizations including the UN,
, where it holds a Security Council seat
during 1974 and 1975. Costa Rica is
also active in the OAS and has ex-
pressed 3 firm commitment to the
Inter-American Treaty of Reciprocal
Assistance. In November 1974, Costa
Rica cosponsored an unsuccessful
motion to repeal OAS Cuban sanc-
tions.

Costa Rican support of efforts to
strengthen CACM has increased during
197 4. President Oduber has also
moved to strengthen Costa Rica’s rela-
tions with Panama, the other Central
American countries, Venezuela,
Colombia, and the Caribbean states.
Costa Rica does not have diplomatic
relations with Cuba.

U.S.-COSTA RICAN RELATIONS

Relations between the United
States and Costa Rica have been par-
ticularly warm and cordial, owing in
large part to a mutual respect for
shared democratic tradition. Costa
Rica and the United States frequently
share similar views on matters before
international forums. The United
States has no major disputes with
Costa Rica.

A primary goal of U.S. policy for

many years has been to assist the
country’s development efforts, and
Costa Rica has achieved notable pro-
gress in its advanced social programs
and educational standards.

The U.S. Agency for International
Development’s (AID) current objec-
tives in Costa Rica are to help broaden
and accelerate growth in the agricul—
ture sector. This is being done prima—
rily through the implementation of a
joint AID-Government of Costa Rica
agricultural development program
which is designed to assist the low in-
come farmer to achieve a higher stand-
ard of living, to help Costa Rica in-
crease production, and, where possi—
ble, to achieve self-sufficiency.

AID also assists Costa Rican pro-

grams to provide family planning set;
vices and to improve nutrition stand-
ards throughout the country. In addi-
tion to AID, a variety of other U.S.
programs operate in Costa Rica, in-
cluding a very active United States In-
formation Service (USIS) cultural and
exchange program; a well-received
Peace Corps of about 160 volunteers,
working principally in agriculture, edu-
cation, health, and nutrition; and pri-
vate exchanges of students, techni-
cians, and other interested Americans
and Costa Ricans.

Principal U.S. Officials

Ambassador—Terence A. Todman

Deputy Chief of Mission—Lyle F. Lane

AID Affairs Officer—Joe J. Sconce

Public Affairs Officer—Wesley D.
Stewart

Peace Corps Director—Abe Pena

The U.S. Embassy in Costa Rica is
located at Calle 1, Avenida 3, San
José. -

 

 

TRAVEL NOTES

Climate and Clothing—San José, at an
altitude of 3,800 feet, has an average
temperature of 740 F. Its rainy season
occurs from May to November; however,
more rain falls throughout the year in
the Caribbean, somewhat less rain falls in
the northwest. Spring-weight cloﬂting,
with a sweater for winter evenings and
trips to the mountains, and umbrellas are
recommended.

Customs—U.S. citizens arriving by air
need a tourist card issued by airline
ofﬁces and proof of U.S. citizenship or a
passport with a Costa Rican visa. Over-
land travelers should carry a U.S. pass-
port and visas for those countries they
will enter. Also required for entry to
Costa Rica is an onward travel ticket and
sufficient funds to defray expenses. All
Central American countries require
proof of smallpox vaccination for entry.

Health—Medical services are good for
most purposes. Essential medicines are
available locally. The most serious health
hazards, including diarrhea, amoebic
dysentery, and typhoid occur more fre-
quently outside the capital area. Tap'
water should be boiled, and fruits and
vegetables well prepared.

Telecommunications—An automatic tele-
phone service covers all of Costa Rica.
Direct-dial service to the U.S. was in-
stalled recently. Campania Radiografica
handles all international telegrams.

Transportation ——Principal cities are con—
nected by highway, air, or rail with San
José. PanAm and LACSA, the national
flag airline, have daily ﬂights to several
U.S. cities, and San José has air con-
nections to other Central American
capitals. Within San José, taxis are effi-
cient, but fares should be agreed upon in
advance. Buses serve all parts of the city
and nearby suburbs.

 

DEPARTMENT OF STATE PUBLICATION 7768

Revised March 1975

Office of Media Services
Bureau of Public Affairs

 

 

 

 




LIST OF COUNTRIES

Write to the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office. Washington, DC. 20402, for any
item, or combination of items, from among the following: (1) complete set of all looseleaf Background Notes cur-
rently in stock (at least 140)—$16.35 per set, plus $4.10 for foreign mailing; (2) 1-year subscription service for ap-
proximately 77 updated or new Background Notes—$14.50 per year, plus $3.65 for foreign mailing; (3) plasticized
binder—$1.50 each, plus 40 cents for foreign mailing; and (4) individual Background Notes chosen from the list be-
low—~25 cents each, plus 1/; additional _of total price for foreign mailing. (Orders of 100 copies or more of the same
Note sent to the same address are sold at a 25 percent discount).

AvailableJune I974

 

 

Afghanistan (pub. 7795)
Albania (pub. 8217)
Algeria (pub. 7821)
Andorra (pub. 8578)
Angola (pub. 7962)
Argentina (pub. 7836)
Australia (pub. 8149)
Austria (pub. 7955)
Bahamas (pub. 8329)
Bahrain (pub. 8013)
Bangladesh (pub. 8698)
Barbados (pub. 8242)
Belgium (pub. 8087)
Bermuda (pub. 7907)
Bhutan (pub. 8334)
Bolivia (pub. 8032)
Botswana (pub. 8046)
Brazil (pub. 7756)
British Honduras (pub. 8332)
'Bulgaria (pub. 7882)
Burma (pub. 7931)
Bdrundi (pub. 8084)
Cameroon (pub. 8010)
Canada (pub. 7769)

CentraLAfrican Rep. (pub. 7970)
Chad (pub. 7669)

Chile (pub. 7998)

China. People’s Rep. of (pub. 7751)
China. Rep. of (pub. 7791)
Colombia (pub. 7767)

Congo (pub. 7896)

Costa Rica (pub. 7768)

Cuba (pub. 8347)
Cyprus (pub. 7932)

Czechoslovakia (pub. 7758)
Dahomey (pub. 8308)

Denmark (pub. 8298)
Dominican Rep. (pub. 7759)
Ecuador (pub. 7771)

Egypt (pub. 8152)

El Salvador (pub. 7794)
Equatorial Guinea (pub. 8025)
Ethiopia (pub. 7785)

Fiji (pub. 8486)

Finland (pub. 8262)

France (pub. 8209)

French Guiana (pub. 8321)

French Territory of Afars
and lssas (pub. 8429)

Gabon (pub. 7968)

The Gambia (pub. 8014)

Germany, East (pub. 7957)
Germany, Fed. Rep. of (pub. 7834)
Ghana (pub. 8089)

Greece (pub. 8198)

Guadeloupe (pub. 8319)

Guatemala (pub. 7798)
Guinea (pub. 8057)
Guyana (pub. 8095)
Haiti (pub. 8287)
Honduras (pub. 8184)
Hong Kong (pub. 8126)
Hungary (pub. 7915)

' Iceland (pub. 8227)

India (pub. 7847)
Indonesia (pub. 7786)
Iran (pub. 7760)

Iraq (pub. 7975)

Ireland (pub. 7974)

Israel (pub. 7752)

Italy (pub. 7861)

Ivory Coast (pub. 81 19)
Jamaica (pub. 8080)
Japan (pub. 7770)

Jordan (pub. 7956)
Kenya (pub. 8024)
Khmer Rep. (pub. 7747)
Korea. North (pub. 8396)
Korea. Rep. of (pub. 7782)
Kuwait (pub. 7855)

Laos (pub. 8301)
Lebanon (pub. 7816)
Lesotho (pub. 8091)
Liberia (pub. 799l)'
Libya (pub. 7815)
Liechtenstein (pub. 8610)
Luxembourg (pub. 7856)
Macao (pub. 8352)
Malagasy Rep. (pub. 8015)
Malawi (pub. 7790)
Malaysia (pub. 7753)
Maldives (pub. 8026)
Mali (pub. 8056)

Malta (pub. 8220)
Martinique (pub. 8320)
Mauritania (pub. 8169)
Mauritius (pub. 8023)
Mexico (pub. 7865)
Monaco (pub. 8670)
Mongolia (pub. 8318)
Morocco (pub. 7954)
Mozambique (pub. 7965)
Muscat and Oman (pub. 8070)
Nauru (pub. 8595)

Nepal (pub. 7904)
Netherlands (pub. 7967)
Netherlands Antilles (pub. 8223)
New Zealand (pub. 8251)
Nicaragua (pub. 7772)
Niger (pub. 8293)
Nigeria (pub. 7953)

Norway (pub. 8228)

Pakistan (pub. 7748)

Panama (pub. 7903)

Paraguay (pub. 8098)

Peru (pub. 7799)

Philippines (pub. 7750)

Poland (pub. 8020)

Portugal (pub. 8074)
Portuguese Guinea (pub. 7966)
Qatar (pub. 7906)

Romania (pub. 7890)

Rwanda (pub. 7916)

San Marino (pub. 8661)

Saudi Arabia (pub. 7835)
Senegal (pub. 7820)
SeycheHes(pub.8246)

Sierra Leone (pub. 8069)
Singapore (pub. 8240)

Somali Dem. Rep. (pub. 7881)
South Africa (pub. 8021)
South West Africa (pub. 8168)
Southern Rhodesia (pub. 8104)
Spain (pub. 7800)
SpanishSahara (pub. 7905)
Sudan (pub. 8022)

Sri Lanka (pub. 7757)

Surinam (pub. 8268)
Swaziland (pub. 8174)
Sweden (pub. 8033)
Switzerland (pub. 8132)

Syria (pub. 7761)

Tanzania (pub. 8097)

Thailand (pub. 7961)

Togo (pub. 8325)

Tonga (pub. 8594) _

Trinidad and Tobago (pub. 8306)
Tunisia (pub. 8142)

Turkey (pub. 7850)

Uganda (pub. 7958)

U.S.S.R. (pub. 7842)

United Arab Emirates (pub. 7901)
United Kingdom (pub. 8099)
Upper Volta (pub. 8201)
Uruguay (pub. 7857) 6
Vatican City (pub. 8258)
Venezuela (pub. 7749)
Viet-Nam. North (pub. 8505)
Viet-Nam. Rep. of (pub. 7933)
Western Samoa (pub. 8345)
Yemen Arab Rep. (pub. 8170)

Yemen. People’s Dem. Rep. of (pub.

8368)
Yugoslavia (pub. 7773)
Zaire (pub. 7793)
Zambia (pub. 7841)

 

 

 

61

l I ‘

 




Lois Huggins needs

replacement at event

Mrs Lois Huggins of 3230 Rue Re-
noir is seeking someone to take her

place next week at the Albert Sweitz- ’
er award ceremony and annual meet-
ing of the Animal Welfare Institute in ‘
Washington, DC.

The meeting will begin at 4: 30 pm.
Wednesday in the Dirksen Senate Of-
fice Building. Mrs. Huggins, a mem-
bemfseveralhumaneorganimtions.
said she would like to approve her
replacement at the meeting.

The president of Costa Rica Dan-
iel Oduber Quiros‘ will receive a med-
al in honor of his work to establish a
network of parks in Costa Rica where "
animals can live undisturbed.

.-" '

 

 




 

March 28, 1977

Daniel Odubeeruiros
President of the
Republic cf Costa Rica

San Jase

Costa Rica

Dear Preaident Oduber,

Thank you am much for the inscribed phctegraph which yau so
kindly sant me. I sh&11 treasure it.

I thaught you might lika to have a capy of the AWI Information
Repart in which your remarks and thoaa of Hubert Humphrey are published
in full. This issue was sent ta over 30,000 individuals and organ«
izations in the United States and abraed. I hope it will help lead
ta the widaspread appreciatian cf Costa Rica’s wise actian in
conservation of wildlifa and natural mmuntain, farest, saashere and
other unexploited areas from degradatien or destruetien.

With deep appraaihtian for year great work,

Sincerely,

Christine Stevens
Presidant

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P. 0. Box 3650
WASHINGTON. D. C. 20007

December 8, 1976

Daniel Oduber Quiros

President of the
Republic of Costa Rica

San Jose

Costa Rica

Dear Mr. President,

Each year the Animal Welfare Institute presents the Albert
Schweitzer Medal and Award to the person we feel has done the
most for the protection of animals.

We would consider it a great honor if you would accept the
Medal this year in recognition of your magnificent work in pro-
tecting the forests of Costa Rica and their wildlife.

Your plan to provide spacious country quarters for the zoo

animals is of a piece with the tremendous contribution you have
made through the parks.

For the past few years the Medal has been presented on
Dr. Schweitzer' s birthday, January 10th; however, if this would
not be convenient for you, we naturally wish to make all arrange-

ments for your greatest convenience if you would like to suggest
another possible date or dates.

We will need to coordinate a date with a distinguished per—
son who would make the presentation to you in Washington.

We very much hope that you will accept the award. We look
forward to your response with keen anticipation.

Respectfully,
:9 4 7/ 9%

// 9;.»
Christine Stevens
President

 




ELVZ

 

//{7K::1»¢/ a e. 1% W-.- W/rz

‘. 5 -, n I t i \v: L; t _ I
1 n " s ’ ‘4 5 a
; ' , _ [1..." 'g (2+ N.

a 311‘;

’\t_,\/_

\ .

 

 

 

PO. Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007

January, February, March, 1977

Vol. 26, No. 1

 

ROSTROPOVICH BENEFIT CONCERT
FOR ANIMALS

On March 28th, the world’s greatest cellist Mstislav
Rostropovich, will play Bach, Brahms, Rachmininoff, and
Prokofiev for the benefit of Monitor, Inc., a coalition of conserva-
tion and humane groups concerned with the protection of marine
mammals and endangered species. The concert will take place at
8:30 PM. in the Concert Hall of the John F. Kennedy Center for
the Performing Arts in Washington, DC.

The twenty-two member organizations of Monitor include the
Animal Welfare Institute, Friends of the Earth, Defenders of
Wildlife, Sierra Club. Wilderness Society, Humane Society of the
United States, Fund for Animals, and the Society for Animal Pro-
tective Legislation. Representatives of the groups meet weekly to
take positions on the permit requests under the 1973
Endangered Species Act and the 1972 Marine Mammal
Protection Act and to join in actions benefitting the animals
covered by these federal laws.

The benefit performance is presented under the patronage of
HRH. The Prince of Denmark, Sir Peter Scott, Liv Ullrnan,
Jason Robards, and Brigitte Bardot.

Tickets for the concert range from fifteen to fifty dollars, the
latter including an invitation to a reception following the concert
in the Atrium.

Tickets may be obtained by phoning Instant Charge:
202-466-8500 or writing to:

Monitor, Inc.
Suite 931 or
1346 Connecticut Avenue

Washington, DC. 20036

Animal ‘v‘v’eifaie li'istitute
PO. Box 3650
Washington, DC. 20007

 

RESEARCH AWARDS TOTALLING $16,000
OFFERED FOR SUCCESSFUL SUBSTITUTES
FOR LABORATORY ANIMALS

An international contest for scientists whose research is of
in'zmediate benefit to animals was recently announced by the
Director of the Felix Wankel and Ernst I‘lutzenlisnib Awards for
Animal Protection. The two awards of 20,000 German marks
each will be made for original research work. Emphasis is being
placed on two major fields: development of alternatives to
laboratory animals, and of less cramped quarters for animals in
intensive husbandry systems. For details write:

Felix Wankel and Ernst Hutzenlaub Research Awards

Att: H.J. Weichert, Director

Ortlindestrasse 6/ VIII

D-8000 Munich 81

Federal Republic of Germany

 

NEW EDITION OF HUMANE BIOLOGYPROJECTS

High school biology teachers have kept up a demand for the
AWI manual Humane Biology Projects since it was first published
in 1968. It has gone through eight printings. ,

The new edition, now in press, includes numerous original
projects and chapters including “You as the Guardian of Nature”
an "I “You as the Subject of Study”. The latter, by F. Barbara
Orlans, Ph.D., first appeared in The American Biology Teacher.
Other authors who have contributed to the 1977 edition of
Humane Biology Projects include Vagn Flyger, Ph.D., Professor
of Wildlife Biology, University of Maryland; Karl Niklas, Ph.D.,
Associate Curator of Paleo Botany, The New York Botanical
Gardens: Dewey M. Caron, Ph.D., Associate Professor of
Entomology, University of Maryland. and Kenneth M. Nagler,
Chief of Space Operations, Support Division, NOAA.

Teachers who wish to order a free copy may write to the AWI
at the address on the letterhead. Others may order copies at
$1.00 each (cost price).

AW? *“‘f“\\
rOSTA RICA PRESIDENT RECEIVES
:CHWEITZE AWARD

ert Schweitzer Medal of the Animal Welfare Institute
was presented to Daniel Oduber-Quiros, President of the
Republic of Costa Rica, on February ninth at the annual meeting
of the AWI. Senator Hubert H. Humphrey, who was the 1958
medalist, made a stirring presentation. President Jimmy Carter
telephoned President Oduber during the ceremony to extend his
good wishes. Over five hundred people, including important
government officials, attended the meeting in the Senate Office
Building and [heard of the magnificent network of national parks
which Oduber is largely responsible for creating. It is hoped the
Costa Rican example will serve as a model for other nations. In
accepting the award, Oduber said, “Costa Rica firmly and
emphatically rejects the view that preservation of the natural
environment is a concern of the privileged and wealthy nations,
and a luxury which poor and developing nations cannot afford.
We are a developing nation, and yet we see the preservation and
protection of the natural environment as vital to our country. . . .
We need no violence against people or nature in order to develop
our country and defeat poverty. On the contrary, respect for
protection of the environment is as essential to our policy for
development as it is inherent to our philosophy.”

Senator Humphrey expressed the basic philosophy of the
mitt-rial welfare movement when he commented on a famous
quotation of Scl‘iweitzer’s: “ “No one may shut his eyes and think
that the pain which is therefore invisible to him is nonexistent.’ In
other words, man is not an island unto himself. Your pain is my
pain; mine is yours. The pain that human creatures suffer, other
human creatures also suffer, and the pain that animals suffer
tends to poison the entire human environment.”

President Oduber has not limited his effort to the grand design
of the national parks but also gave thought to individual animals
captive in the San Jose Zoo and has arranged for them to move
to spacious country quarters where they will be seen in near
natural surroundings.

The full text of Senator Humphrey’s and President Oduber’s
speeches follow:

   
 
 

Remarks of Senator Humphrey

First, may I explain to our associates here, to our very
distinguished and honored guests, that the President of the
Republic of Costa Rica left the room only because he is taking a
call from the President of the United States, and I’m sure you
think that’s an appropriate reason fora timely exit. I’ll save a lot of
the nicer things I was going to say about him until he gets back. In
the meantime, he is hearing some very nice things from someone
who is very important, the President of the United States, Mr.
Carter.

Let me just say how happy I am to participate in this ceremony.
My old and distinguished friend, the dean of the diplomatic corps,
the Ambassador of Nicaragua, Guillermo Sevilla—Sacasa, is here
with us today. We love him very much. The Ambassador who

represents the great country of Costa Rica, Mr. Silva, the Ambas- - '

savior Designate to the Organization of American States, Senator
McGee, the Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-American
Affairs, Mr. Todman . . . Mr. President, we welcome you back. We
understand.

President Oduber, my good friend, and he is a personal
friend, I was recalling in the brief moments that we had just before
this public gathering, the first time that we had the opportunity to
meet. It was in his very beautiful home in Costa Rica a little
paradise unto itself, the whole country, and his home a very
lovely place. I have looked forward to this day again to greet you
and welcome you. How wonderful it is to have you here in the
United States. You’re welcome any day, any time, the only thing I

[continued on page 2]

 




 

 

COSTA RICA ’S PRESIDENT RECEIVES

SCHWEITZER AWARD

[continuedfrom page 1]

ask you is. please don’t run for office because you’re a very
popular man in these areas.

I’m honored that the Animal Welfare Institute, ably directed by
my friend, Christine Stevens, has asked me to present today its
distinguished Schweitzer Award to an outstanding international
leader, President Daniel Oduber of Costa Rica. President Oduber
is widely known for his political achievements, as leader of the
National Liberation Party, as his country’s ambassador in Europe
and the United Nations, as a member and president of Costa
Rica’s Legislative Assembly. His election to the presidency in
1974 capped a long and highly successful career in his country’s
politics. He is a good friend to all of us, a good friend of this
hemisphere, and to nations everywhere, particularly a good
friend of the United States, he has worked to strengthen
constructive ties between our two great countries, and may I say
that in these days of tension and uncertainty in this troubled world
that we express our thanks to you for your friendship and your
understanding.

This ceremony today highlights a lesser known facet of
President Oduber’s concerns. The Schweitzer Medal awarded to
President Oduber today recognizes his efforts in creating an
outstanding network of national parks in Costa Rica’s forests and
coasti’ands to preserve unspoiled a homeland and refuge for that
country’s native wildlife, including species that otherwise would
disappear. Quite honestly, on my visit to Costa Rica I thought the
whole country was a national park, it is so beautiful and so fertile
in its soil, a diamond in this hemisphere.

This park development, to which I have alluded, carried out in
cooperation with international conservation groups, is a
monumental project. The vision and commitment demonstrated
by Costa Rica is an example to countries with far greater
resources and countries that could well undertake the same kind
of activity. Truly, President Oduber deserves our praise, and it is
my proud duty and privilege to associate myself with his concern
for protecting and preserving wildlife and its natural habitat.

You know, animals do not vote. What is done for their welfare
may have no immediate political rewards, but I can tell you there
are some spiritual rewards to it. There are not too many
organizations that can lobby in their behalf, but some
organizations such as the Society for Animal Protective
Legislation serve a vital purpose, by constantly reminding us that
this globe does not belong to man alone.

Too often, the havoc and cruelty we deal to animals is invisible
because no one speaks up in their behalf, and might I add that as
we create havoc and cruelty to animals, we tend to be cruel to
ourselves. We become accustomed to that kind of behavior.
Animals have been unwitting victims of human civilization for
centuries. They have been hunted to extinction, they have
succumbed to man's thoughtless exploitation of their natural
habitat, and they have died from oil spills and waters polluted by
industrial wastes, all in the name of social progress.

To accept the suffering and extinction of God’s creatures as an
inevitable consequence of human progress requires a very
narrow. diminished view of man’s place in the universe. Mr.
President, let me say I serve on the Committee on Agriculture
and Forestry of the Senate. and some of the legislation of which l
have reason to be justly proud deals with protection of wildlife
and preservation of the natural habitat. I am deeply interested in
our forests and our range lands because, ultimately, it has been
my view the way that the people take care of their land is about
the way that people take care of themselves. A country that
exploits its resources of land and water and timber generally
exploits its peOple as well. So there is a tie-in here that we should
keep in mind. Our rationality should raise us from the level of
predator and destroyer to the protector of our fellow living
creatures.

Some years back, as Mrs. Stevens has said, I was the proud
recipient of the Schweitzer award. It’s one of the awards I cherish.
You know, in public life, you get all kinds of plaques and so forth,
but there are some that have a special meaning. The Schweitzer
Award was granted me for my role as chief Senate sponsor of the
Federal Humane Slaughter Act passed in 1958. I want to say that
despite what Christine has said about how that Act was passed in
the Senate, it never would have been passed without the Society
for Animal Protective Legislation , without the work of the
Humane Society, without Christine Stevens and others, because
we Senators have a way of tiring sometimes, of slipping away,
you know, ofjust not sticking to it. She never let me out of sight. I
was on target all the time, I’ll tell you, and I’m happy that she
insisted that I perform my duty.

The debate on this bill was long and arduous and, at times,
almost bitter. Yet its purpose was modest. It simply asked that the
necessary slaughter of animals for human food be done in a
merciful way here in the United States of America, which, by the
way, turned out to be to the good of the packing houses, the
consumers, the producers, and everyone else. Nobody could
witness the barbaric practices then prevalent in our slaughter-
houses without feeling repugnance and disbelief. But many

 

people simply preferred to dismiss the issue from their minds.
After all, it was only animals, wasn’t it?

At that ttme, I quoted the great humanitarian Albert Schweitzer,
for whom this medal is named. He warned, and I quote him, that
“No one may shut his eyes and think that the pain which is
therefore invisible to him is nonexistent.” In other words, man is
not an island unto himself. Your pain is my pain, mine is yours.
The pain that human creatures suffer, other human creatures also
suffer, and the pain that animals suffer tends to poison the entire
human environment. I think we need to keep that in mind. In any
case we should never allow our natural human impulses to be
blinded by the delusion that dollars and cents are the only criteria
for sound public policy. Almost always, such cost benefits hold
only at close range; and almost always to rely on them alone is an
inadmissable distortion of human values. We see some of this
even today in what we call the market place as a nation such as
ours tolerates high unemployment, permitting millions of its
young never to know the dignity of work and permitting the
incredible pain, suffering and indignity to millions of our fellow
citizens to be told that there’s no place for them in our society.
There are some of us who rebel at that thought, and we don’t
intend to tolerate it one day longer than is possible.

It would be very difficult to place a cash value on the beauties
of nature that your system of parks in Costa Rica will preserve.
Our own National Parks here in America are a wonder to behold,
and at long last we have begun to realize that possibly we need to
do more about them instead of just building slabs of concrete and
feeling that the well being of the United States is tied up in the
color television. Maybe we are now beginning to understand that
wilderness areas, preserves, parks, range lands, forests, may save
us from ourselves. I can tell you they represent mighty good
therapy, and they’re cheaper than doctors and hospitals.

It would be difficult to estimate in dollars and cents the suffering
spared to helpless creatures that are at the mercy of man. But we
know something of the cost of ignoring these values. Respect and
kindness toward our fellow living creatures is surely the mark of
any civilization that sincerely cares about the quality of life. The
careless destruction of any living thing, of animals through
deliberate cruelty, or wanton carelessness, erodes the morality of
the culture which tolerates it. I can’t help but think of how in our
housing we have used the bulldozer to rip out God’s gift to
mankind, beautiful trees that are 100 years old, only to put up a
house that will last 20 years before it starts to fall apart. At long
last, we’re beginning to understand that that nonsense was not
only costly, but unforgiveable.

There is so much that remains to be done to preserve animal
species from extinction, yes, and many other gifts of Nature, to
minimize the impact of industrialization on the natural
envirrimrnent and the creatures that epend on it, to avoid
unnecessary destruction, cruelty and killing. Killing can become a
habit. It can spread from animals to people. The parks you have
set aside in your lovely country, Mr. President, are a priceless
heritage for your people, and a witness to the humane values that
you yourself hold, and of your society.

So. President Oduber. I now want to welcome you to a proud
fraternity. All of us who have been honored to receive the
Schweitzer Award must consider it one of our most cherished
trophies. Since you have traveled from Costa Rica expressly here
for this presentation, I know that you truly appreciate its real
value.

On behalf of the Animal Welfare Institutue, Mr. President, and
all of us who have worked for the welfare of animals, I am proud
to present you with the Schweitzer Award for 1976.

Remarks of President Oduber

Senator Humphrey, Mrs. Stevens, ladies and gentlemen, I am
deeply moved by the very fact of being here with you and having
the privilege of seeing you again, my dear friend, Hubert
Humphrey. He has always been an inspiration for many Latin
Americans who have followed his career, and being able to be
with him and receive from him this Award, makes me really
overwhelmed by this occasion and by this act. Thank you,
Senator, not only for the privilege you give me by being with me
at this moment, but for everything you have done for Latin
Americans.

The honour which you do me today is a real and valued tribute
to the Costa Rican people and an encouragement to us in our
effort to preserve and maintain our country’s natural heritage.

For me the significance of this occasion goes even further.
While honouring what Costa Rica has been able to do in the field
of preservation of 'the natural environment you are also
vindicating and honouring something which I can only call the
philos<3phy and convictions of our nation. In an age in which
violence dominates the news from much of our hemisphere and
in which brute force seems to be the basic arbiter of conduct both
among and within nations, our Costa Rica strives to maintain
something at the same time priceless and unsensational: a deep
and heartfelt abhorrence of violence. This is translated, at the
most obvious level of institutions, in our deep respect for
democracy and the rule of law, in our maintenance of a clear
separation of constitutional powers, and in our rejection of

Lir

 




militarism (the armed forces having been abolished since 1948).
Concern for human rights is a cherished value of the Costa Rican
people. Our respect for nature, and our willingness to take
concrete steps to preserve our natural heritage from human
depredation, follows naturally from this philosophy. A political
tradition which honours diversity and respects dissent leads
“naturally to a rejection of violence and anarchy in the protection
and development of the natural environment, and to measures
which safeguard and protect that heritage. Our respect for our
people today extends to future generations and our respect for
diversity within human society extends to a desire to maintain
and preserve the diversity of nature.

This is why Costa Rica firmly and emphatically rejects the view
' that preservation of the natural environment is a concern of the
privileged and wealthy nations, and a luxury which poor and
developing countries cannot afford. We are a developing nation,
and yet we see the preservation and protection of the natural
environment as vital to our country.

Conversely, I believe that where nations have shown little or no
respect for the environment and where the natural environment
has been ruined or lost in an over-hasty and uncoordinated
exploitation of the Earth’s resources, human relations inside those
nations are also likely to be characterized by a lack of respect for
individuals and for human rights.

We need no violence against people or nature in order to
develop our country and defeat poverty. On the contrary, respect
for protection of the environment is as essential to our policy for
development as it is inherent to our philosophy.

We see practical benefits from nature conservation in the
raising of the quality of life of our people and the improvement of
education and culture, including the pursuit of scientific research.

We began our efforts in 1970 with a programme to establish
national parks and reserves to preserve representative
woodlands; this programme now includes twelve units
encompassing a total of 127,000 hectares, or 2.5% of our
national territory. We estimate, however, that in order to preserve
an inviolate sample of each of the country’s twelve life zones no
less than 5% of the Costa Rica territory must be set aside as
national parks. Together with the already declared and to be
declared forest reserves, this would bring the total of preserved
area in Costa Rica to 25% of the national territory, a figure which
coincides with the advice of our ecologists.

Some of Costa Rica’s national parks are of great international
significance because of the uniqueness of their ecosystems and
natural resources, or because they harbor endangered species of
plants and animals. The Volcan Poas National Park has one of
the world’s few active volcanoes accessible to visitors year-around
by road up to the crater; the Santa Rosa National Park is the only
.rotected area representative of tropical dry forest vegetation in
Central America; the newly established Chirr‘po National Park is
the most westerly-lying paramo in the American tropics; the
Monteverde Cloud Forest Reserve protects mid~altitude rain
forests of extraordinary biological diversity and scenic beauty; the
Tortuguero National Park includes the last important nesting
beach of the Caribbean Green Turtle; and the recently established
Corcovado National Park is one of the few regions in the world
that effectively protect a large area of undisturbed tropical rain
forest and its associated wild life. Among the endangered species
that find shelter in these and other parks in Costa Rica are the
manatee, Baird’s tapir, jaguar, hawksbill turtle, giant anteater, titi
monkey, the lovely quetzal and many other species.

To continue this work, and to reach our target of conserving
25% of our national territory can be expensive. Nevertheless we
are determined to press on with our programmes. l was interested
to hear recently that a group of United States conservation
organizations has recommended amendments to the US.
Foreign Aid Law which would permit the Agency for
International Development to assist developing nations to protect
the environment and natural resources. This could be a positive
development for us in Costa Rica.

My friends: I am convinced that the pressures and demands on
the natural environment in the next decade will be enormous,
especially in the developing world. This is why it is essential that
we should face the challenges of the future with clearly thought
out policies and philosophies, policies to increase co—operation
and justice and promote order in the conservation and
preservation of our planet.

This award to me recognizes the steps we have taken in Costa
Rica and is an enormous encouragement to us. We are truly
grateful. But we harbour no illusions about the work that still
remains to be done.

Thank you.

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P. 0. Box 3660
WASHINGTON. D. C. 20007

December 8,

Daniel Oduber Quiros

President of the
Republic of Costa Rica

San Jose

Costa Rica

Dear Mr. President,

Each year the Animal Welfare Institute presents the Albert
Schweitzer Medal and Award to the person we feel has done the
most for the protection of animals.

We would consider it a great honor if you would accept the
Medal this year in recognition of your magnificent work in pro—
tecting the forests of Costa Rica and their wildlife.

Your plan to provide spacious country quarters for the zoo
animals is of a piece with the tremendous contribution you haVe
made through the parks.

For the past few years the Medal has been presented on
Dr. Schweitzer's birthday, January lOth; however, if this would
not be convenient for you, we naturally wish to make all arrange-
ments for your greatest convenience if you would like to Sugée>L
another possible date or dates.

We will need to coordinate a date with a distinguished per~
son who would make the presentation to you in Washington.

We very much hope that you will arcept the award. We look
forward to your response with teen anticipation.

Respectfully, 3
, /

ff ‘2 {<7 “,2. / l { l 1/.“ ”V *-

. 9/ {‘4
MUMC ““‘J oak/WM’W'
Christine Stevens
President

_ /

 




THE ALBERT SCHWEITZER MEDAL OF THE ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

Presented Annually for an Outstanding Contribution to Animal Welfare

In 195A a gold replica of the Medal was presented to Dr. Albert
Schweitzer by Dr. Charles Joy at Oslo, where Dr. Schweitzer had gone

to accept the Nobel Peace Prize.

SCHWEITZER MEDALLISTS
Dr. Robert Bay, veterinarian in charge of a colony of 500
experimental beagles, whose humane treatment of the animals
and high standards of care and housing exemplify the pur-

pose for which the Medal was struck.

Major C- W- Hume, O.B.E., M.C., B.SC., M.I. Biol., Director-

General of the Universities Federation for Animal Welfare,
London, England, author, speaker, Founder of U.F.A.W., which

pioneered in enﬁsting scientific efforts for animal welfare.

Paul Kearney, author of "The Case for Humane Vivisection,”
the first article calling for humane treatment of research

animals to appear in a national magazine.

Senator Hubert H. Humphrey, author'of the first humane
slaughter bill introduced in the Congress of the United
States and Chief Senate Sponsor of the Federal Humane

Slaughter Act, passed in 1958.

 




Congressman W. R. Poage, Chairman of the Committee on Agri-
culture, United States House of Representatives, then Chair—
man of the Livestock and Feed Grains Subcommittee and Chief

House Sponsor of the Federal Humane Slaughter Act.

Mrs. Isobel Slater, M.B.E., Founder, and Chief Z. S. Fundikira,

President, of the Tanganyika Branch of the Royal Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, numbering 40,000
African members. Presentation of the Medals in Africa was
made by the Honorable G. Mennen Williams. In New York the
Honorable Adlai E. Stevenson made the Schweitzer Award adw

dress.
William H. A. Carr, author, reporter, and animal columnist.

Rachel Carson, author of Silent Spring.

 

Ann_Cottrell Free, author and journalist, whose discovery
and reporting on hundreds of Food and Drug Administration
test dogs perpetually caged in a sub~basement led to Congresm

skﬁmd action providing comfortable kennel runways for them.

Patrolman John Mobley of the Detroit Police Force, whose
prompt reporting on suffering and neglect of experimental

animals led to improvements in their care.

Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States
Abe Fortas, author of the first Federal bill to require

humane treatment of research animals.

 




Senator Warren G. Magnuson and Senator A. S. Mike Monroney,
who sponsored and fought for enactment of the Laboratory
Animal Welfare Act, passed by a vote of 85 to O in the

United States Senate.

Dr. Francis Mulhern and Dr. Earl Jones of the United Stdtt:
Department of Agriculture, who prevented much suffering by
meat animals through their work in disease eradication and

by laboratory animals through effective implementation of

the Laboratory Animal Welfare Act.

Dr. John Quinn, State Veterinarian, Michigan Department of
Agriculture, who created the first Animal Welfare Committee

of the United States Animal Health Association.

Stan Wa an Life 'hotoara>her whose "Concentration Cwmp~
, , 9 .
for Dogs" and other picture stories brought recognition in

millions of people that animals need protection.

Bob Cromie, whose hard—hitting columns against cruel expeflw
ments by school children resulted in Westinghouse stizytv
fair prizee being changed to eliminate any experimentatTun
on captive vertebrates. The medal was presented by ~:gntnr

Charles Percy (R., 111.).

Hon. Thomas Foley (D., Wash.), who wbn enr'
Animal Welfare Act amendments of l97ﬂ inciu_‘
quirement for "appropriate use of anesthetic.

and tranquilizing drugs" for experimental inimnl<,

Yumam '- . , 4.;5 ‘-_ v .uxz.'..---....-.... ~ ;. -...1"m..‘ -~~.:;,._-.- ._ ‘ ..-__ ...”...‘ww... ....» “...-v» rm

 




medal was presented by Senator Warren D. Magnuson (D., Wash.).

Hon. Russell Train, Chairman, President's Council on Environ—
mental Quality, who was successful in obtaining unanimous
adoption of a resolution for a ten—year international mora-
torium on commercial whaling. The medal was presented by
Hon. S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary of the Smithsonian Tnsti~

tution.

Scott McVay who pioneered in obtaining the listing of
the great whales on the U.S. Endangered Species List.
medal was presented by Dr. Lee Talbot, Senior Scientist,

the President's Council on Environmental Quality.

Dr. Lee Talbot, who successfully fought cruel poisons.<pr6am
on federal lands and who has sought a moratorium on tnmmer~
cial whaling. The medal was presented by Hon. Russell

Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agent;.

Fay Brisk, who uncovered cruelty and theft by laboratory

dog dealers in the 1960's and initiated an animalporl

Washington, D.C. to help animals transported by air.

medal was presented by Senator Lowell Weicker (R..

 




December 8, 1976

Daniel Oddber Fuiros
President of the
Republic 0f Costa Rica
San Jose ‘ '
Costa Rica.

Dear Mr. President,

Through an oversight the attached listing
of Schweitzer‘Medallists was not enclosed
in the letter of December 8th, a cepy of
which is enclosed. We felt this weuld be
of interest to you. '

Respectfully,

Christine Stevens
President

 




1/13/77

City_Dupliceting Centre
1617 Eye St. NM.
Washington, D.C. 20006

Attn: Mr. Patterson,

Enclosed is a copy of the invitation for the Schweitzer Award
which you arrgﬁged to have printed for us last year. We cannot»
yet give you the copy for the new invitation, but would-like

to order 750 envelopes to fit so that we may begin addressing
them.

As soon as the information for the new ceremony is firmed up, I'll
forward it to you for the printing. . ‘

Thank you,

John Gleiber '
Assistant to the President

 




January 4, 1976

Medellic Art Company
01d Ridgebury Road
Dgnbury, Connecticut 06810

Dear Friend,

Please engrave the 1976 Scheitzer.Mede1 with the following
name:

Daniel Oduber Quiros

Send it to me Special Delivery at:

1686 34th Street, N.w.
washington, D.C. 20007

telephone no.2 202-337-2332

Please advise when you will be sending it. The ceremony
to present the award will be held February 10th."

Thank you.

Sincerely,

Christine Stevens
President

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P. O. Box 3650
WASHINGTON. D. C. 20007

December 8, 1976

Daniel Oduber Quiros

President of the
Republic of Costa Rica

San Jose

Costa Rica

Dear Mr. President,
Each year the Animal Welfare Institute presents the Albert

Schweitzer Medal and Award to the person we feel has done the
most for the protection of animals. '

_ We would consider it a great honor if you would accept the
Medal this year in recognition of your magnificent work in pro-
tecting the forests of Costa Rica and their wildlife.

Your plan to provide spacious country quarters for the zoo
animals is of a piece with the tremendous contribution you have
made through the parks.

For the past few years the Medal has been presented on
Dr. Schweitzer's birthday, January 10th; however, if this would
not be convenient for you, we naturally wish to make all arrange—
ments for your greatest conVenience if you would like to suggest
another possible date or dates.

We will need to coordinate a date with a distinguished per—
son who would make the presentation to you in Washington.

We very much hope that you will atcept the award. We look
forward to your response with keen anticipation.

Respectfully, ,/
,» ‘ ' 3.
,/ I '2 $15.? w/ I {l f,“ '
v Christine Stexens
President

. nm-n~m—m~n,wu «4...... .—

 




February 2, 1977

FACT samr 9g. MONITOR CONSORTIUM

Monitor is e consortium.of 20 envircnmentel, conservation and

animal'welfere organizations banded together to eneourage cooperau
tive action and a unified voice in the conservation of marine mam~
male and the preservation of endangered species; Theneneprofit ,
.Coneortium, whose member organizations represent mere than 500,000

concerned citizens, serves as both an information clearing~houee

Vand action coordinator in behalf of’merine mammals and endangered

species.

Environmental educationie one of the Mbnitor consortinnie'ngegegee
reaching out te citizens in all fections of American society. 'The
long~renge goal is to achieve a change in the nation's environmen~
tel ethic. ‘The Mbnitor consortium is working-towards changing the
way pepple regard wildlife: from considering wildfire as an exploit»
able resource to acceptance and support of the concept that e maXi»
'mum.divereity of Species on earth.muet be preserved by halting de~ l
etruction of Species and habitat;“ Because the future at future
,generatione of both.humane and wildlife are at the mercy of today's
actione, the Coneertium is pressing for a better understanding of

ecologibal relationships and encouraging ecosystem.contervation. .

 




Monitor is supported by annual dues from the Consortium members
and by individual, cerperete, and foundation contributiene. It
13 e180 supported in many group aetivitiee by organizations not
formally associated with the Cbneortiumbeueh as the Environmental

Defense Fund, the Center for Law and Seeiel Policy and the Inetim

hate for Public Interest Representation in the area of 11tigatien.

newber organizations-ere:

.Americen Littoral Society

. Animal Welfare Institute '

1.Auduben Naturalist Seciety er the Central Atlantic States
Cammittee fer the Preservaticn of hhe Tale Elk
-Cennect1cut Cetaceen Society

Defenéere of Wildlife

Endangered species Productions
Env1renmenta1 Club er Hood Cellege
Envirenmmntel Peliey Center

Friends of the Eerth

Friends of the Sea Otter

Fund for Animals ,

Humane Society of the United Statee
International Fund for Animal Welfare
National Ferke and Coneervetien.Aeeocietien
Pnnpaiee News

Sarah Lawrence Cb11ege Action Group

SeVe the Dolph1ns'

Sierra Club

Seciety fer Animal Preteetive Legielegien
‘Wild Cenid Survival and Research Center

 




1/31/77
Honorable Bob Bergland
Secretary of Agriculture
Washington, D.C. 20150

Dear Mr. Secretary,

Again, congratulations and warmest good wishes for the great work I
know you will do as Secretary of Agrihulture. It was a pleasure to
meet Mrs. Bergland with you at the Swedish Embassy.

I'm writing in the hope you might be abletto find time to say a few
words at the Albert Schweitzer Award ceremony of the AWI scheduled
te take place at hz30 P.M. Wednesday, February 9th in Room 1202 of
the Dirksen Senate Office Building.

Hubert Humphrey will present the Schweitzer Medal to the President of
Costa Rica, Daniel Oduber, in recognition of his remarkable achieve—
ments in establishing a network of national parks in his country.
President Oduber is, like you, a humane man who has interested him~
self in the animals in the San Jose zoo where they are closely con-
fined. He has taken the initiative to move them to spacious quarters
in the country.

Both Mr. Oduber and Mr. Humphrey represent the highest level of states~
manship combined with concern for animals, and we hope to honor them

in every way possible. It would be a fitting recoggition if you and
Mrs. Bergland could attend the eeremony and address the group briefly.

Sincerely,

Christine Stevens,
CS/jg President

P.S. For your information, I'm enclosing background material on
the medal and former medallists.

 




1/25/77

City Duplicating Centre
.1617 Eye St. N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20006

Attn: Mr. Cross:

Enclosed is the letter to be duplicated and enclosed with the

Annual Reports which you have in hand. They are to be mailed
as soon as possible 21 first class mail. ‘

 

Enclosed is my personal check for $700.00 as advance against
the postage required. I'm.doing this so that there is no delay
in getting the mail out. ' *

P?ease ship the extra copies of the Heart back to us here.

Sincerely,

John Gleiber
Assistant to Mrs. Stevens

 




'Deer MeMbers and Friends,

You are cordially invited t0 attend the Albert Schweitzer Award
Ceremony and annual meeting of the Animel Welfare Institute at
#:30ngM. on February 9th in ream 1202 of the Dirkeen Senate
Office Building at 1st and Genetitution,NE, Washington, 9.0.

The Honereble Daniel Oduber, President of Caste Ricegeeill ran
ceive the medal in reeegnitien er his great work in creating a
network of national parks in Caste Rice where wild animals can
live their natural lives. President Oduber is a humanitarian who
takes an interest in individual animals, toe, witness his eureent
initiative to wave the captive tee animale in Sen 3636 to mmeh
enlarged quarters in the country.

Seeetor Hubert H. Humphrey, the Schweitzer medalist of 1958 will
make the presentation to President Oduber. Senator Humphrey pion n
neared in animal protection as anther of the Federal Emmane Slaughe
ter Act of 1958, the third federal animal protective law eeeeed in
the United States. ~

President Oduber is travelling tram Costa Riea expressly to receive
the medal. Hie deep-commitment t0 the preeervatian of wild areas
and the wildlife teee benefits fram.them is a shining example to
ether Heads or State throughout the world. This Schweitzer Medal
Ceremony is a lenwmeﬁk, and we hope you will be able to attend.

You are welcame to bring a friené whe is interested in advaneing
‘ the welfare of’animele. A reception will rollaw the ceremony.
Please let.ue knew if yen can acme. We leak rerward to seeing you.

Cordially,

Christine Stevens
President

 




January 21, 1977

Senator Hubert Humphrey
United States Senate
washington, D.C. 20510

Dear Senator Humphrey,

_we have finally been able to determine a firm date for your pre-
sentation of the Schweitzer Medal to President Oduber of Costa
Rica. It will now'teke place on February 9th, preferably at
4:30 in the afternoon which you indicated as your choice, and
at‘a place still to be arranged.

Miss Culver has very kindly offered to see if a Senate Room
would be available for the event which would hold the 450 to 500
which.usually assemble for the ceremony and for the reception
which follows. .

Please ask your office to contact me if there is any difficulty
in scheduling. I would like to add that I am most grateful for
the coooeration your people have given us through this time of
shitting arrangements. . _

Sincerely,

John Gleiber
, Assistant toers. Stevens

cc: Miss R; culver

 




I
.\‘
‘\

,T:
‘\
K.

\

0‘

“E

\\

DEPARTMENT OF STATE

Washington, D.C. 20520

BUREAU OF OCEANS AND INTERNATIONAL
ENVIRONMENTAL AND SCIENTIFIC AFFAIRS

February 1, 1977

Mrs. Roger Stevens

1
Dear Christine:

LD 686 — 34th Street, N. W.
§9§Washingtom D. c. 20007

I appreciate the invitation to attend
the presentation of the Schweitzer Award for
1976 to President Oduber.

Unfortunately, I will not be able to get
there. If you feel it appropriate, I would
like to have Cameron Sanders of the Office
of Environmental Affairs—-whom I believe you
know—-attend for me. You have a distinguished
cast for the presentation and receipt of this
year's award.

Sincerely,

f/ ..

. ~er
Lindsey Gragl
Deputy Assistant S cretary

Environmental and Population Affairs

 




MS PCA

Massachusetts Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Anlmals

 

350 South Huntington Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02130 Telephone: (617) 522-5055

 

February 8, 1977

Mrs. Roger Stevens
1686 34th Street NW
Washington, D.C. 20007

Dear Christine:

I do thank you for the invitation from the
Directors of the Animal Welfare Institute

to attend the presentation of the Schweitzer Award
for 1976 to Daniel Oduber, President of the
Republic of Costa_Rica, on February 9.

Although it had been my plan to be with you on
that date, I do regret that circumstances forced
me to change my schedule for that occasion.

It would be my hope that I will be in Washington
in the not too distant future and perhaps at
that time we will have an opportunity to visit

together.
(:;Sincerely,
c»)6L4>LdJZ

//%resident

 

 

 

Ofﬁcers and Directors Directors

Richard L. Brickley, Esq. Robert S. Cummings, Esq. Oliver Ames Austin Jones William 0. Taylor
Chairman 0f the Board Secretary George F. Bennett Gordon B. Jones Charles H. Tenney, 11
David S. Clafiin Edward L. Bond Edward P. Bliss Charles Kenny Gus W. Thornton, D.V.M.
President Treasurer Elsie Cahners Francis W. Sargent

 




‘ ” 9'"); 9-; 7 ‘1' a p ‘ ’ '7’} "m ' .~ 1 7a g, a,
an, ,5“ 5555an 5.55855: a. 5355,35,};55. {455‘ ’5 5.5.5}; 5'” 595 55.52 :54 5X. 55:55:.pr $55 555.” 1:55 5:55;;

55*MW5555 5555511? 555 55 05555555555 Contributi55 55 555551 5555555

. ‘ . \ n5: .. v 1
‘ ' . ‘ . ., . . .0 V ‘ .
' .

,1,

.55 5555 5 5515 5553555 5? 555 55551 555 555555555 55 55.5535555~

. 9 ..

q

"“ci5555 55 55. 6555155 555 55 @515, 55555 55» 5555555555 555 5555

U .
b

,55 555555 555 55551 P5555 55555.

5€5Wf1f?55 M”H5ili$5
y

550 555555 55y, 555555555555 55 055555 55 5 555555 55 300
555555555551 b555555, wh055 555555 555555555 55 555 5555535
555 5M ;5 555555555 Of 5555 555 55555555 55N551555 555 555»
5555 555 55555 555 M5551 W55 555555.
55355 to W. 5555, O. B. 5., M C,, E. Scog‘MaE. 5551., 5155555r-
5555555 5f 555 U5555551t555 F555555555 £55 555555‘W555555,

7555555g 55515559 555555, 55555559 5555555 5f 5.50555., 55555

“55555555 55 55555155 55555tif£c 5€f5555 £55 555555 551E555.

5535 F551 5555555? 555555 55 ”T55 C555 €55 555555'V5555555155,”
555 é?555; 5555515 5555555 far 555555 555555555 5f 55555555
5555555 55 555555 55 5 55555552‘55555555. '

5555555 555555 H. Humphr5yg 555555 5f 555 {1555 555555
555 555555 5555 3555555555 55 555 C5555555 0f,th5 U5555d
”5555” 555 65552 555555 $555555 05 555 5555551 “55555

;55555 5 5559 555555 55 5555

O

:3. ~
. . .

 

.-..m «wwwravhwmv— -m cu - n. . .4

 




N .

wk
megﬁmﬁmmﬁn‘w. R. $0agﬂ, Chairman of the C0: itee on Agriw
cuitmr@,.Unitad States House of Representativea, Lheu.Chnir~
man of the Livestock and Feed Grains Subcommittee éndChief
Hmuaa Spansor of {ha Faderal Humana Slaughter Act.
Mfg. lsobel Slatef, M.B.E., Founder, and Chiﬁf Z. S. Fundlkira,
Praﬁident, of thﬁ Tanganyika Branch of the Royal Society for
ﬁhﬁ @rﬁvention of Cruelty to Animals, numbering A09000
Africmn membmrs. Pregentﬁtimn of thm'Mmﬁmlg in Africa me
madﬂ by the Hanorable G. Newman Williamw. In Haw Vark Lhe
Munwrabie Adlai E. Stevenson made thw Schwwitgmr Award ad»

drags.

william H. A. Carr, author. reportar, and animﬂi columnisL.

 

iQﬁZ ﬁaahﬁi Caramn, authnr of ﬁiitnt Sgring.v

&nn Cmiﬁraii'Frae, ﬁULhOF and 3nurnaiigtg whagg diSCQVtrﬂ
and raparting an hundred: of Food and Drug Adminierution

tﬁﬁﬁ dagﬁ parpmtualiy caged in a SUbWbﬁﬁﬁWEﬁt led to KOWQFVV”

K

ﬁﬁmMT actian prmwiding ammfortabiu kenmai runways {vr thaw.

ﬁWﬁME %%AL1W)2HM1H \Jqﬂwn Iﬂmkylﬁyr of? tﬁww é7eirrc>it P£)12J;@ FCiULt‘, th ~«n
wtmmpt‘zwqurting (”liﬂjffﬁfifhiglmd negﬂ£m;t of (AWN riva

.z;:e.a‘”xii,m,.za 2 5-: led in.) img?)ii‘f‘t.)'~.'¢3fﬁ€3Hi; s in 2, hes i. 1' care .

ﬁagwcimha jugtiga af thw Suprwme Caurt 05 thv ’nitau

ﬁha Fmrtag, authmr 0f {ht {irgt Fedarai biil In rub»;

hmmamﬁ trﬁatment mi yaawarch animals.

 

 

 

p, v 'H‘vt'w‘

 

my, .W~._ v. ,.,,, ,,.v, .., ., W,” .
'v'~o /, 1/) n" a, I v‘ v;4’.».' .‘V, . N ‘
Mann,” '7 .1 '_ tw ‘

- .I .1, A. “1"“ “’if'wy raw ' a r 2 a“; 4. AER-("v.zwlr- _ .mun-z:Z?!h'—!!-'~=t».m
I" 4 I ’ w‘r.r',..1~urhum},-f.;t“.;i.'»‘himm’: 5’5 ’1'. v' "’IWLWI“ ’35111'W‘4n’i: ‘UHLIHI-Ffl"'U‘J/‘f'l’ziiv'du .w m91am::1;1:;;«.r;w-J;Iunzm’nmw.‘ 14141;; “augwrd‘ mm r u

u..- -v...“ . v - u Inc-(anhinr v41Nh‘l’vlr wwvurvmvv'au-n-m "wanna - >

 

 




‘1: re List ‘ u.
no span; “ed rd fought for éctment of noratory
Animal Welfare Act, passed by a vote of 85 in the
United States Senate.

\

[Dr. Francis Mulhern and Dr. Earl Jones of the United States
Department of Agriculture, who prevented much suffering by
meat animals through their work in disease eradication and

by laboratory animals through effective implementation of

the Laboratory Animal Welfare Act.

Dr. John Quinn, State Veterinarian,‘Miéhigan.bepartment of
Arriculture, who created the first Animal welfare Committee
of the United States Animal Health Association.

Stan Wayman, Life.photographer, Whose "Concentration Camps

for Begs" and other picture stories brought recognition to

millions of people that animals need protection.

Bob Cromie, whose hard-hitting columns against cruel experi-

.ments hy school children resulted in Westinghouse science

fair prizes being changed to eliminate any experimentation
' /
on captive vertebrates. The medal was presented by Qenator

Charles Percy (R.,.lll.).

rm

Hen. ihomas Foley (D., Wash.), who won enactment of the
Animal Welfare Act amendments of 1970 including 1h; re-

quirement for "apprOpriate use of anesthetlt, nna1e¢~it

and tranquilizing drugs" for experimental animals. The

O

 

 

 

 




3

2. u E, R 3 '91.: 3;” ’3. it i a 2 . 1 *
.7 1.? W“ ‘ _\ I.‘ '7 5;. W) 7- .3 , . f 7’ ‘ w > ; ; 1 I.“ r? n 0., E, .4 l “I 9.. ’ _ l
6:45.412. 5). all. azi 1‘ _ ,, , ‘. ., 2 g '- 3;? 231.213.. L4§,uUillf—er Li.
,, ,. #3.,“ ‘5 , ,.
ﬂ. ii». 3.0; g a

o
.J

Scott chmy who piomooroo "n obﬁoimimg Eho 123*
the gromt whoiog on tho U.S. Eodomgctod Syocios List. The

moéoi wag preoentoﬁ by Dr. Roe Talbot, Sﬁmior Sciontigt,
C

cho ?ro$idont'3 Couﬁcii on Emvironmcntoi ﬁwﬁiity.

Dr. Eco Talbot, who successfully foughc cruol poisona spread
on federal lands and who has sought a moratorium op commerm
ciol wﬁoling. The medal was presentcﬁ by Hon. Rusqeil Yrain.
ﬂémimistrator of the Environmental ?rotoction Agency.

Fay Brisk; who uncovered cruelty and theft by laboratory

dog ﬁealers in the 1960's and initiate& an animalport in
Washington, D.C. to help animais transported by air. The
modol was presenteﬁ by Senotor Lowell Weicker (R., Cunn.3.
Daniel Oduber, Prosiﬁonﬁ of Costa Rica, for outstanding
achievement in creating major national parks, in Costa Rica,
where wildlife can flourish. The modal pronontatiom was

by Senator Hubert H. Humphrey.

O
C ..

 

 

w’ _, ma- vp- -p~~r‘m-wvwrfw..rﬁ.”_£‘.‘.,_,,,‘¢—._r... we-

 




I, 5-4 "momentum-Star MJWIOJW‘I

 

Hail to a Chief: Thanks to Daniel Oduber for Saving the Costa Rican Wilderness

Quotes and notes from various Washington parties:
Room 1202 of the Dirksen Senate Office Building was as
' crowded late yesterday afternoon as if a Watergate hear-
~ mg were going on. .

The occasion was the awarding of the Albert Schweitzer

Medal of the Animal Welfare Institute to President Daniel

Oduber of Costa Rica by Sen. Hubert Humphrey, the
Schweitzer Medalist in 1958.

An ebullient Humphrey said, in making the presenta-

Ymelda Dixon

tion: “Animals do not vote. What is done for their: welfare

may have no immediate political rewards. And so organi-

zations such as the AWI serve a vital purpose, by con—

stantly reminding us that this globe does not belong to man
-alone.”

p , ;0duber. an en» ronmentallyominded leader, received
' the award in T80 anition of his dedication in pushing
through the most .mbitiuos wilderness preservation in
modern times. ’

In fluent English, Oduber accepted, saying in part: “We

reject the belief that as a developing country we
protect the environment so essential to our development.” ' . ' .

At the, reception which followed, Oduber, Georgetown fresh tUllpS,'dlnneI‘S at embassxes. The tables wxll groan
socialites, senators and Latin American diplomats and the Wltn delicaCies from 100 other embassres and there/Willbe
director of the AWI,‘Chrlstlne Stevens, mingled over entertainment by SCOttlSh dancers and the Brlt‘Sh
drinks. Embassy Players.

Evelyn Zlotnik, a guest, confessed she had hidden her
fur coat. “I am so ashamed to have it onhere,” she said,

l :“-— ' v v ri n." ,/
add ng and I mlght e* 82 becofne a egeta a At yesterday’s Heart LUW' two very busy ambassa-
Mor’s wives sat together. . Hugo Margain of Mexico IS

YOU C0U1d watch the anatomy Of a super 51100 ~ 111 up to her ears furnishin ’5 new residence -- at this pomt,
benefit emerge yesterday at a luncheon LadJ/RemeO' she has two bedsmaooﬂone borrowed table. Next week,
tham, wife of the British ambassador, gave’to acquaint Mexico's First Fa ily arrive for a state visit. Mrs. J. H.
friends with plans for an April 30 benefit for unique Che- Warren of Canada is busy with other arrangements: Her
shire House, a new concept in housing/for the disabled. ' daughter isbe‘ing married Saturday.

The French Ambassadreﬂss‘Mrs. Koscuisko-Morizet, the xx" * * * *
German ambassadressﬁ,.Mf-s. Von Staden. Mrs. Jefferson w” . .
Patterson, Mrs. Wiifiam Price, Dr. Marie McGuire ,xM/rs. Joseph Slsco, wife of the pre51dent of American
Thompson. Mrs eorge Renchard, Mrs. Sidney Zlotnic , University, has been in on hundreds of drives for as many
Mrs. Hobart palding and Mrs. John Begg were a ng years here. Last Sunday at the ’White House, howev
those hear' gtheambitious projecte-Xplained. /’ was, Sisco said, “absolutelyafirst.

Alist r Cooke will be the auctioneer for the Grand Auc- As chairman of "Heart Sunday," which opens the/Heart

cannot tion Party, assisted by Burl Ives. The donations to be}
offered include jewelry, paintings, sculpture, glassware;

Month drive, she went to the White ill:;...._\.~ :3:-
tional photograph with the First Lady /

“After the picture and off camera, Mr (‘ .3,r had
me some bills, saying, ‘I want to make hay/rs». persOf
contribution.’ It was the first time in awn. 1 that
actual contribution was made," 3.7/

t Id

. I

Hearst columnist Maria
is marrying New Yo
Weaver, who has a 1,
perform the cere
Ikards before a

/

Reers. James Scheuers’ invitation to “come a
drink toast to Washington’s new Stipef‘ lawyer, Ste
indale, on Wednesday. Feb. l?" hat; tr: be followed
correction which said. “Our party for Steve, the su
lawyer, is Thursday, Feb. 17.”
Martindale has left Hill and Knowitcn to go into t
practice of law.

e Means, who TS <1.,r_::,‘3.":;: la
Times cmrespondw: lJuarr
degree. Judge David Bazeion w

ny tonight at the home of the Era
all group offriends.
* i i

I

 




@mgaaza {/9 a ﬂaw-m a 5m ﬂay

April 13 , 1977

Mrs. Christine Stevens, President
Animal Welfare Institute

P.O. Box 3650

Washington, DC. 20007

Dear Christine:
I have certainly appreciated your mailing me the copy of the
Information Report of the Animal Welfare Institute from January,

February and March 1977.

Thank you for your attention.

wSin'ce rely ,

”Daniel Oduber

 




11-4

’ 11112 Washington Star

Thursday, February 10,1977

 

Hail to a Chief: T o

Quotes and notes {rem various Washington parties.
Room 1202 of the Dirksen Senate Office Building was as

crowded late yesterday afternoon as if a Watergate hear-
'~ ' :3 f; ing were going on.

The occasion was the awarding of the Albert Schweitzer
Medal of the Animal Welfare Institute to President Daniel

Oduber of Costa Rica by Sen. Hubert Humphrey, the '

" Schwe1t2er Medalist in 1958.
' An ebullient Humphrey said, in making the presenta-

Ymelda Dixon
1. _ tion: “Animals do not vote. What is done for their welfare
, may haVe no immediate political rewards. And so organi-
_zations such as the AWI serve a vital purpose, by .-con
_. stantly reminding us that this globe does not belong to man
1. .alone ‘
1 ’ Oduber, an environmentally- minded leader, received
3111.9 award in recognition of his dedication in pushing
thrbugh the most ambitious wilderness preservation in

modern times.
111' fluent English, Oduber accepted, saying in part: “We

 

director of the AWI,

reject the belief that as a develOping country we cannot
protect the environment so essential to our development”

At the reception Which followed, Oduber Georgetown
socialites, senators and Latin American diplomats and the
Christine Stevens mingled over
drinks.

Evelyn Zlotnik, a guest, confessed she had hidden her
fur coat. “I am so ashamed to have it on here, ” she said.
adding:‘ ‘-- and I might even become a vegetarian.”

You could watch the anatomy of a super successful
benefit emerge yesterday at a luncheon Lady Ramsbo-
tham, wife of the British ambassador, gave to acquaint
friends with plans for an April 30 benefit for unique Che-
shire House, a new concept in housing for the disabled.

The French Ambassadress Mrs. Koscuisko-Morizet, the

German ambassadress Mrs. Von Staden, Mrs. Jefferson
Patterson Mrs. Wiiliam Price, Dr. Marie McGuire
Thompson, Mrs. George Renchard,'- Mrs. Sidney ZIOtniCk,
Mrs. Hobart Spalding and Mrs. John ~Begg were among
those hearing the ambitious project explained."

Alistair Cooke will be the auctioneer for the Grand Auco

tion Party, assisted by Burl Ives The donations to be

offered include jewelry, paintings, sculpture, glassware,
fresh tulips, dinners at embassies. The tables will groan
with delicacies from 100 other embassies and there will be
entertainment by Scottish dancers and the British
Embassy Players. 1

t 1’ i *
1

At yesterday’ 5 Heart Luncheon, two very busy ambassa-
dor’ s wives sat tbgether. Mrs. Hugo Margain of Mexico is
up to her ears furnishing a new residence -- at this point,
she has two beds and one borrowed. table Next week,
Mexico’s First Family arrive for a state visit. Mrs. J. H.
Warren of Canada is busy with other arrangements: Her
daughter IS being married Saturday.

Mrs. Joseph Sisco, wife of the president of American
University, has been in on hundreds of drives for as many
years here. Last Sunday at the White House, however,
was, Sisco said, “absolutelya first.”

AS Chairman of “Heart Sunday,” which opens the Heart

IanieiOduber for Saving the COsta Rican WﬂderneSs

Month drive, she went to the White House for the tradi-
tional photograph with the First Lady.
“After the picture and off camera, Mrs. Carter handed

.me some bills, saying, ‘I want to make my own personal

contribution.’ It was the first time inall my life that an
actual contribution was made,” said Sisco.

«not,

Hearst columnist Marianne Means, who is studying law,
is marrying New York Times correspondent Warren
Weaver, who has a law degree. Judge David Bazelon will
perform the ceremony tonight'at the home of the Frank
Ikards before a small group of friends.

. * k *‘ -*

Rep. and Mrs. James Scheuers’ invitation to‘ ‘come and

drink a toast to Washington’s new super lawyer, Steve

Martindale, on Wednesday, Feb. 17 ” had to be followed by
a correction which said, “Our party for Steve, the super

lawyer, is Thursday, Feb. 17. ”

Martindale has left Hill and Knowlton to go into the
practice of law.

 




ﬂaw be a QWMW a 5.4% $5“.

March 14 , 1977

Mrs. Christine Stevens, President
Animal Welfare Institute

P.O. Box 3650

Washington D. C. 20007

Dear Mrs . Stevens:

I wish to thank you and the Animal Welfare Institute for my nomi—
nation to the Albert Schweitzer Medal for 1976.

You have my assurance That Costa Rica will continue the conser—
vation of its natural resources as I believe conservation is essential
to development in an emerging nation suchfas ours.

/"Since rely ,
\

Daniel Oduber

DO/ych

cc: lng. Alvaro Ugalde

 




I ”1‘3!

.z' J! t.

CR};
l‘iEhi l'Ohii {EHES

’33 ‘ "l '1': VI
lunll! l ILL
A!”

. '1 \

-. 5‘ “ii-Wit . .
' I. Elna 8: "1’ . a, 5

_ Danielgtgduher Quiros

' we”
. C l loo
Costa idiots—3s Man in the Shadow

 

 

 

aipeclsl to The New York Times

SAN JOSE, COSTA RICA.
Feb. 7 midis the margin of
Daniel Oduber’s lead in Sun~
day's Costa Rican elections
began to slip the other day.
one Opposition politician said

with genuine sym-
‘ pathy, “poor

Daniel; he-wanted

so badly to be

President.”

But Mr. Odu-
ber‘s lead held. Today, ten-
tative final returns gave him
43.4 per cent of the vote--
enough to avoid a runoff
election though not enough
to govern without the help
of other parties. And so after
25 years of political triumphs
and setbacks, he will assume
the Presidency of this tiny
Central American democracy
on May 8 for a four-year
term.

Throughout his long polit-
ical career, the 52-year-old
Daniel Oduher (pronounced
oliodooBEAR Quirds has
lived in the shadow of Jose
Figueres Fairer, known as
Don Pepe, a. din-iinutive 68-
yeanold politician with a
dominating personality who
is serving out his second
term as President of Costa
Rica.

‘I..Ei..i’. oi’ Costa hica‘

While Mr. Figueres’s charm
won him popular support
and nevspnper headlines,
Mr. Oduhcr preferred to play
politics quietly, developing
into a particularly good ne-
gotiator and e teiented “arm
twister” in die legislative as-
sembly, where he served :s
president from 1970 to 1973.

“Oduher is a sort of LBJ.
of Costa Rica," one Congress-
man said. “He always knows

Man
in the
News

when to give and when to,

 

position deputies were in one
way or another indebted. to
him politically.”

During the. campaign an“

accusation often aimed at
Mr. Oduher was that while
leader of Congress, he would
leave the country to avoid
taking sides against Presi-
dent Figueres during political
crises.

When the controversy
broke out last year over Mr.
Figueres’s close business re-
lationship with the fugitive
American financier, Robert L.
Vesco, Mr. Oduber was con-
spicuously silent. _

“You can criticize Daniel
or you can simply say he was
being pragmatic,” one politi-
cal source said, “because his
nomination as party candi-
date depended on preserving
Don Pope’s goodwill.”

Now, however, aware of
the legal restraints on the
Costa Rican President’s free-
dom of action, Mr. Oduber
has celled for a reform of
the Constitution to strength-
en. the executive branch and
reduce its dependence on
Congress.

Commitment to Efficiency

But in broad political
terms, he is expected to con-
tinue President Figueres’s
Social Democratic policies,
emphasizing the need for
greater efficiency in the large
public sector and stepping up
agrarian reform programs.

The President-elect was
born of humble parents in
San Jose, the nation’s capi~
when Aug. 25, 1921. He was
a conscientious student and

paid his way' through law~

college by worl-zing in the
American-run local telegraph
office.

After completing his thesis
on “the right to strike," he

—~_

opened a law firm and
worked in San .1056 until
moving to Montreal, for fur-

‘ther studies at McGill Uni-

versity. In 1949, he began
working for his PhD. at the
Sorbonne in Paris.

While there he met and
married a young Canadian,
Marjorie Elliot. They now
have a 10-year~old son, Luis
Adrian. '

Springboard to Politics

His first political activity
was at the age of 19 when
he participated in the crea-
tion of the Center for the
Study of National Problems,
3. body that brought together
a generation of impatient
young politicians and intel~
lectuals and eventually pro~
vided the momentum for a
revolution in 1948.

From 1951, when the Na-
tional Liberation party was
founded, Mr. Oduher gave
more and more time to poli‘
tics, eventually abandoning
his law practice and dedicat-
ing his little free time to a
cattle ranch in Guanacaste
Province in the north.

He became party secretary
general in 1956 and entered
Congress two years later,
proving himself a bright
and hardworking deputy. In
1961, he made his first un-
successful bid for the Presi-
dency.

From 1962 to 1966, Mr.
Oduber was Foreign Min-
ister, a post in which he
strongly supported tlieklsit: d
Statinsel-5:36:11soiiéidﬂ‘illishoe or
Progress and frequently
spoke of his close relation-
ship with President Kennedy.

In his next bid for the
Presidency in 1966, he won
the party nomination but
was defeated by just 4,220
out of 441,000 votes.

 

 

 

take. In the assembly, ell Op

L

 

 

 

 

 

i

 




UI‘VUAI', JANUARY 3:, 1977

 

Letters

 

The ‘iiastr ar rd Shorts LS
J‘

1m

ialited’ Coffee Boyce rt

 

To the Editor:
."I would be the last to deny the right
of Americans to organize and defend
their interest as consumers. I am writ—
ing, however, to voice our disappoint-
ment that Americans have taken coffee
as the object of their boycott. at the
'pres'ent time, which seems to us a
hasty and shortsighted'decision on the
part of people whosewisdom we have
come to respect...l would have ex-
ipeeted Americans to be moreaware
of the vital interests of other nations
and peoples, and of the harm that the
boycott could-cause to those interests
and, indeed, to U.S. standing abroad.
~, My. View is that the U.S. consumer
W boyCOtt, which vitally affects one of
;.'-my country’s main exports, is unjusti-
fied. On the- other hand, it must be
remembered that, by comparison with
. the rise in the prices" of other essential
commodities, the rise in the price of
‘__'coffee has had a very small overall

effect on the budget of the awrage
eiUHS family in any case, the impact
of the price " rise in America is not
remotely comparable with its impact
_. Worn a small country where coffee. pro-
:*‘duction is the main 'source of employ-
ment and of foreign exchange; in Costa
'Rica 80,000 or so coffee producers,
mainly small or medium-sized, directly
301‘ indirectly provide jobs for about a
third of the whole population of the
country.

The rise in the price of coffee beans

 

A , \ A.
-g- -_.,-.‘ ~'
V'\\\\.>/ ‘ ‘
w .- ‘5; ‘

w}
J‘ w

 

 

 

Tom Hachtman

'1!

has been cansed by the impact on the
market of natural phenomena outside
the control of the producing Countries,
though obviously it is to. us a godsend
in helping us cope to some extent
with the consequences of the recent
world energy and financial crises. It
would he most unjust, indeed, ifwafter
haying suffered a serious deterioration
in our terms of trade in the last 25
years~lour access to ~marlx‘ets Should
be closed or reduced by factors beyond
our conté'ol just at the moment when

.. .. . ~
1 . ‘1‘ . , 23'“ 3‘ . _‘
,z. t ‘ ‘ v a; )

‘- . t - , p
the trends of trade are workmg tombo—
,rarily to our add an age.

This is one aspect of the relationship

(between rich countries and the coun-

tries of the third world (excluding
petroleum producers) which needs to

_be taken into consideration, Perhaps

American consumers have not realized
the sheer magnitude of the disadvan-
tages which we suffer. in the case of
Costa {ica the impact has been
dramatic: While in 1950 we needed to
produce 2,100 kilos of coffee in order
to earn enough to buy a small tractor,
by 1974 we needed to sell four times
as much coffee to acquire the same
tractor. The fact that we are favored
temporarrly—-—and at the moment the
tractOr costs us much less incoffee-
is only a phase, and the long-term
trend will reassert itself in a year or
two. This disadvantageous trade rela-
tionship explains why, for some con-
siderable time now, Latin America has
advocated the replacement of foreign
aid from rich countries by a fairer

system of international trading.

If Americans will hear these few
points in mind, I am sure that their
traditional common sense will assert
itself and that they will take a new
look at the coffee boycott, and look
at it in the wider context.

DANIEL Opener:
President

Republic of Costa Rica

1' San Jose, Jan. 17, 1977

l ‘ -. ‘ . .‘.‘ 4-4-0‘ -

 




 

Biographic_Sketch’

Daniel ODUBER Quiros (OhdooBAIR),

candidate for the National Liberation Party (PLN), was
elected President of Costa Rica by a 43.4 percent plural-
ity of the vote on February 3,1974. He was inaugurated.
on May 8,1974.

 

Daniel Oduber was born on August 25, 1921 in San Jose.
He holds a degree in accounting and law from the Univer-
sity of Costa Rica and a master's degree in philosophy
from McGill University in Montreal.

In 1948 he helped to found the Social Democratic Party,
the forerunner of the PLN, and he served for a year as
secretary general of the junta that resulted from the

1948 revolution. Active in PLN politics from the outset,
he has served as secretary general of the party on several
occasions. He has also served as Costa Rican Ambassador
to the U.N. and as European Ambassador at large.

Oduber was elected for a four year term to the unicameral
Legislative Assembly in 1958 where he served as party whip.
In 1961, after an unsuccessful attempt to get the PLN
Presidential nomination for himself, Oduber worked hard
for the party's candidate, who was elected. Oduber was
appointed Minister of Foreign Affairs under the new admin-
istration. He resigned from that post in November, 1964
to run as the PLN's candidate for the 1966 Presidential
elections. He lost that election but emerged in control
of the party machinery.

In 1970 the PLN nominated Jose (Don Pepe) Figueres as its
Presidential candidate and Oduber ran as the first candi-
date on the party slate for San Jose for the Legislative
Assembly. Both Figueres and Oduber were victorious.

Oduber describes his political philosophy as social democ-
racy, and he has close relations with Western European
social democratic leaders, such as Harold Wilson, Willy
Brandt, Helmut Schmidt, Olaf Palme, Bruno Kreisky and
Mario Soar es. He Las sticks sed the value of the democratic
system for bringing about social change. Oduber has stated
that his basic goal is to reduce the income disparities
between the rich and the poor and between the urban and
rural areas. The main instrument of the government's policy
is the Family Allowance Program, which involves massive ex-
penditures for rural health services, sanitation and water
systems, and a nutrition program for mothers and children.

 




President Oduber is a strong supporter of foreign invest-
ment, which he regards as necessary for Costa Rica's
economic well being. He has cited mixed enterprises
(businesses owned by both a foreign company and Costa
Rican private and government interests) as a model for
his country to use to combine foreign technology and
national planning.

Oduber is friendly toward the United States, and during

his Presidency Costa Rica has cooperated with this country
in international forums. Oduber believes that Costa Rica
must expand its international relations beyond the US

sphere. In December 1975 he voiced support for the Third
World position vis—a—vis the large industrial nations. He
favors using cartels to force up prices of basic commodities.

Oduber is married to the former Marjorie Elliott, the
daughter of a Canadian diplomat. The Odubers have one
adopted son, Adrian.

 




ANIMAL Wan-um Int-rm
p. 0. Box sew
Wampum. D. C. 20007

December 8, 1976

Daniel Oduber Quiros

President of the
Republic of Costa Rica

San Jose

Costa Rica

"Dear Mr. President,

ll

Each year the Animal Welfare Institute presents the Albert
Schweitzer Medal and.Award to the person we feel has done the
most for the protection of animals. '

We would consider it a great honor if you would accept the
Medal this year in recognition of your magnificent work in pro-
tecting'the forests of Costa Rica and their wildlife.

Your plan to provide spacious country quarters for the zoo
animals is of'a piece with the tremendous contribution you have
made through the parks.

For the past few years the Medal has been presented on
Dr. Schweitzer‘s birthday, January 10th; however, if this would
not be convenient for you, we naturally wish to make all arrange-
ments for your greatest convenience if you would like to suggest
another possible date or dates. '

we will need to coordinate a date with a distinguished per-
son who would make the presentation to you in Washington.

We very much hOpe that Kou will accept the award. We look

forward to your response wit keen anticipation.

Respectfully, A

Christine Stevens
President

 




 

Bio‘graphié §ketCh .. _

Daniel ODUBER Quiros (OhdéoBAIR),

candidate for the NationalVLiberation Party (PLN), was
elected President of Costa Rica by a 43.4 percent plural-
ity of the vote on February 3, 1974. He Was inaugurated-
on May 8, 1974. ,

 

Daniel Oduber was born on August 25, 1921 in Saanose.
He holds a degree in accounting and law from the Univer~
sity of Costa Rica and a master's degree in philosophy
from McGill University in Montreal.

‘In 1948 he helped to found the Social Democratic Party,
_-the forerunner of the PLN, and he served for a year as

secretary general of the junta that resulted from the

1948 revolution. Active in PLN politics from the outset,

he has served as secretary general of the party on several

occasions. He has also served as Costa Rican Ambassador

to the U.N. and as European Ambassador at large.

Oduber was elected for a four year term to the unicameral
Legislative Assembly in 1958 where he served as party whip.
In 1961, after an unsuccessful attempt to get the PLN
Presidential nomination for himself, Oduber worked hard
for the party's candidate, who was elected. Oduber was
appointed Minister of Foreign Affairs under the new admin—
istration. He resigned from that post in November, 1964
to run as the PLN's candidate for the 1966 PreSidential
elections. .He lost that election but emerged in control
of the party machinery. - . -

In 1970 the PLN nominated Jose (Don Pepe) Figueres as its
Presidential candidate and Oduber ran as the first candi-
date on the party slate for San Jose for the Legislative
Assembly. Both Figueres and Oduber were victorious.

Oduber describes his political philosophy as social democ-
racy, and he has Close relations with Western European
social democratic leaders, such as Harold Wilson, Willy
Brandt, Helmut Schmidt, Olaf Palme, Bruno Kreisky and

Mario Soares. He has stressed the value of the democratic
system for bringing about social change. Oduber has stated‘
that his basic goal is to reduce the income disparities
between the rich and-the poor and between the urban and
rural areas. The main instrument of the government's policy~
is the Family Allowance Program, which involves massive ex--
penditures for rural health services, sanitation and water
systems, and a nutrition program for mothers and children.

 




 

President Oduber is a strong supporter of foreign invest-
ment, which he regards as necesSary for Costa Rica's
economic well being. He has cited mixed enterprises
(businesses owned by both a foreign company and Costa
Rican private and government interestS) as a model for
his country to use to combine foreign technology and
national planning. '

Oduber is friendly toward the United States, and during

his Presidency Costa Rica has cooperated with this country
in international forums. Oduber believes that Costa Rica
must expand its international relations beyond the US

sphere. In December 1975 he voiced support for the Third
World position vis~a~vis the large industrial nations. He
favors using cartels to force up prices of basic commodities.

Oduber is married to the former Marjorie Elliott, the
daughter of a Canadian diplomat. The Odubers have one
adopted son, Adrian.

l

W
l
3'
;“

M<oo

4 ‘9 -_0dw.‘—. «on .1...‘
_»I .‘ j j .1
, ,’ .

 




    
   

 

 

 

 

 

‘_

-~we’D es wereome
Home Ei‘z‘Ok’V‘S

THE WAY FROM
neon,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“ " it 5"? ’"‘ S‘- E

.3 its

 

 

 

 

 

 

Twice in seven years, federal grand
juries have considered accusations in—
volving presidents of the United
States.

The first president to arouse a
grand jury’s suspicion, of course, was
Richard Nixon in the Watergate case.
By a 19-to-O vote, the grand jury
named Nixon as a co-conspirator but
refrained from indicting him after the
prosecutors strongly advised against it.

The second president to become in-
volved in a criminal investigation was
Jimmy Carter. '

The grand jury had received evi-
dence that Carter was implicated, per-
haps unwittingly, in a $10 million po-
litical for attempted by Robert Vesco.
The grand jury ultimately declined ei-
ther to indict or to exonerate anyone
involved.

The exidence is contained in Justice
Department documents, intended for
official eyes only, which my associate
Indy Badhwar has examined. Here are
the highlights:

0 The notorious Vesco, on the lam
from the law, gave some Georgians a
$10 million out of his allegedly stolen
stocks. In return, they promised to use
their influence with the Carter White
House to get the federal government
off Vesco’s back.

The contact man between the
Georgians and the Carter crowd,
Spencer Lee IV, dropped by the
White House on Feb. 8, 1977. After-
ward, he told one of the Georgians,

it“

eecg
it re

RL. Herring, that he had discussed
the Vesco deal with both the presi-
dent and one of his aides, Richard
Harden. .

Lee later denied this under oath.
But a Justice Department memo, de-
scribing “the results of two polygraph
examinations administered to Lee,”
tells a different story. It states that
Lee showed “deception” when he de-
nied telling Herring “that he had spo-
ken to the president” and, again, when
he denied disclosing “details of the
Vesco offer. . . with Harden in the
White House.”

0 A key ﬁgure in the plot was Costa
Rica’s President Daniel Oduber,
whom Vesco boasted was in his “hip
pocket.” In January 1977, Vesco'ar-
ranged for Lee to meet with Oduber’s
foreign minister in Costa Rica

Vesco wanted Lee to put President
Carter in touch with Oduber. The day
after Lee visited the White House,
Carter placed a telephone call to Odu-
ber. Carter explained to FBI agents
that he had called merely to congrat-
ulate the Costa Rican president for
receiving a “conservation award.”

It seems unlikely that Carter, who
had served less than a month in the
White House and was steeped in the
overwhelming problems of the pres-
idency, would stop everything to con-
gratulate a minor Central American
ruler over some obscure award. Cer-
tainly, the jurors considered the tim-
ing of the call to be suspicious.

 

gs

 

 

0 According to the White House,
Harden learned about the $10 million
bribery plot the evening of Feb. 8,
1977, and admonished Lee to with-
draw from the conspiracy. This is dis-
puted not only by Lee’s lie detector
est but by telephone records and
other uitnesses. -

Then by the White House accoimt,
Harden waited a week to tell the
president that a fugitive from justice
had tried to bribe his aides. Harden
related to Carter the full details of the
bribery scheme, according to the of-
ficial version, on Feb. 15, 1977.

Yet the Justice Department inves-
tigation established that Harden had
spent. no more than five minutes with
the president on Feb. 15. This was
hardly long enough to explain the
elaborate details of the Vesco plot to a
president who should have been in-

,quisitive about this blatant attempt to

corrupt his staff.

Five minutes was just long enough,
however, for the president to scribble
a note asking his attorney general to
“please see Spencer Lee from Albany
when he requests an appointment.”

Shortly thereafter, the extradition
proceedings were halted, though there
is no exidence that Lee ever spoke to ‘
the attorney general. It is quite clear,
however, that the president never
sought an investigation. Rather than
investigate Lee, the president ap-
pointed him to a committee to help '
select federal judges.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ACROSS 27 Hughes 43 Tresses 19 Needing
1 Sub— 31 Lenta 44 NBAleam patches
5 Shrine hand ' 45 Gone bad 23 Amassed
feature 32 Like Rome 48 Elation 24 Philippine
10 Large 33 Neighbor 52 Makes island 1 2 3 4 :3 375 5 7 a 9 310 11 12 13
chunk of Fla. peace 25 Fragment 3; § 33 g
14 Step—! 34 Pinochle 54 Singer 26 Ban in 14 3 .- ,5 “. 16
15 City on the verb Guthrie neutral . ,3 g l, g
Seyhan 35 Blends 55 A bltqueer 27 NHL teams 17 1'3“ 3‘9“"
16 Japanese 35 Front part 56 “— a man 28 Bounce 011
general 37 Expert with...” 29 Slip away 20 r 21
17 Being 38 Tldled 57 Ballclub to wed F
snooty the yard 58 Sennachen 30 Crosscut 3 ' 322 3 325 .3 ”j
20 Attars 39 Flgure of ib’s emp. 32 Herides ... ,3 3 if .. “3
21 Flocks speech 59 Roman shank’s 24 25 26 3 327 25 29 33;
22 Slip and 40 Chiantiand statesman mare ...-._. 3 J , «.3
slide claret 35 Winnipeg’s 3" E; 532 l 333 3‘
2.3 Ashen 42 Climbed DOWN province 3.... t mm _,
24 Was mali- quickly, as 1 Painter 36 Ol verse 34 3 f 3: 3‘ gas
céous a plane 2 Responsi- 38 Gem cash NJ j
bility 39 Dress — 37 IE 3 3° 3 333
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 3 Poses nines *«4 "ii“ gwfgus
2” , _, ,, 3 , 4 Was proof 41 Former “0 4‘ E , ‘1
_e.l.0_;-l’ 9;_L,I,;,H;Jl”‘tejelE-L of 42 Gentle 3ml 3.-., ,3 ,3,
54.8-3344 3-! 0-l;SLiLL0;_G;Q,. 5 Like stale breeze ‘ ‘3 E g * E 3i 3
3.0.3 it li-1,.'tt-f,.j£;.t.;£le-3- butter 44 Pixilaled 1, u “r” ~- any? . is .. a
1339;; 33“},33533, ill-193'” Es, 6 Trenchant 45 Get out 7‘ E“ E“ E 5 .”° E“ E 5' ’3‘ 3
i3;Zeﬁféwfgﬁrargegf[TE—i]if?, -‘ 7 Neighborol of here! = - ‘ aw—d‘

 

 

 

 




February 1 1,’ 1977

H.S. Knight

1890 G St. H.W.

Roam 9&h

washingtan, D.C. 20223

Baa? Mr. Knight,

‘I hope yen will tall Jaek Kippenberger
and his man haw much.we appratiate thair
‘wark in making tha Schweitzer Nadal Praaea—
tatian ta Pmaident Gan-bar a swath and
happitahle eccasian. It waa a mwst sac.
eesful aftarncan ané Mr. Kippenﬁergar‘s
efficiency ané friandlinasa halpad aagander
the geod fahling we all had at the and of
the cermmﬂny aad racepticn.

Sincerely,

Chrﬁatine'Stevens
President

 




February 11,. 1977

Mrs. Julia Olson .
Rusaell Office Building
Roam 232

Washingtan, 13.0. 20510

Daar- M‘s . Olaan,

John hag told ma_abaat your helpfulness in seeing that things.
went so smmethly ﬂaring tha'Sahweitzer Medal praaentaticn yesterday.
This is tha mmat important mammnt in the Institute's year, and ycur
cheerful and efficient handling of pettirggging details mmant tha
differanca between arganizatian and Ghana. I especially thank yau
for year prmmpt transferral of President Odubar from the podium to
the telephone. what a nice mmmant that was. '

With.warm, best wishsa

Sineerely,

Christina Stevans
President

 




February 11, 1977

' Marvin wesasman

Director Central American.Affairs
Department of State

Roamsh909

Washingtan, 9.0. 20520

Daar Er. waisaman,

Part 9f the auecaaa af gar praaentation at the Sehweitzer Medal
ta President Oéaber of Cesta Riaa lay in sama very efficieat and
infermative apaée work by yaur peapla. Miehale Bova was a tawer
-of strength fram the beginning, and Marijane and Sherrill Davis
helped a great deal with ﬁetaila.

Bat, meat important at all; we were thrilled by tha telephone
call fram.the Preaident ané evarwhelmwd by th3 superlative timing.
Thank you vary mneh for havens engineared this diplamatia gesture.
It made aur annual award carammny autatanding.

Sincarely,

Christine Stevens
Frasident

 




Fabruary' 1 1 , 1 977

Tags Hatjikiriakos

Senate Catering Ofiiea

Diﬁkaen Sanate Office Building
Washington, 13.0 2.0510

Dear Mr. Tags,

The service an d the general hanﬂ11ng of the catar1ng for the ’
Schweitzer Medal prasentatien yesterday wara outatand1ng. Thank yea
very much for all you did to make tha afternoon a mamnrab1a ane
, for all of us at the Institute, Yaur waiters ané waitresses were
oourteoua,affiaient and fr1endly. It was a jay to bye them congratulate
us an the ammothness of tha arrangamaats. Their att1tude can only raw
fleet tha attitude and skill 9f thazman 1n eharge, and I am very gratea
ful'for yaur real centributions to making the afternoan a suceaas.

thn Gleiber Joina m5 1n thanking yeu and I hope yen will extand
our qppreciation t0 your atarf. k

Sinceraly,

Christine Stavens
President

 




@mﬂp we a ﬂew/m be 6% gm

Januaay 19, 1977

MM. Ch/u'xstéhe Steven/s, Paatdent
Antmat Wetﬁaae Ihbtttate '

P. O. Box 3650

WMMVIQIOVL, ’D. C. 20007

u. S; A.

Dean MhA. SteuehA:

It t5 a gaeat honoa 60a me to have been appothted by the Ahtmat
Wetﬁaae IhAtttate a4 aeetpteht 06 the Atbeat Schwettzea Medat
and Awaad 60a 1976.

Yeah deatgnatton t4 the mott httmatatthg theehttue I have even
aeeetved 60a the aehtevementb we have done 60a the echAeauattOh
05 the ”W hw’tage 05 0a): want/Ly. The me/u't 4’25 eejbtathty
not ahty mthe but betohgb atto to the oéﬁtetatA 06 the Nattonat
Paah Sehvtee and othea hattOhat thAtttattOhA.

Oh behaté 06 theAe oﬁﬁtetatb and att Cottahteahb, I accept the
medat and awahd. Aecoadthg to paeutaaé ahhangeme htZ I wttt
taavet t0 WaAhthgtOh to aecetve them on Febauaa%\:0th/ 7977.

Dantet Odabea
PheAtdehte de ta Repabttea

MB/ama
ee: Ftte

 




 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

P.O. Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007 Contact: John Gleiber
(202) 337-2332

 

SEN. HUMPHREY TO PRESENT SCHWEITZER
AWARD TO COSTA RICA'S PRESIDENT

 

 

WASHINGTON -- President Daniel Oduber of Costa Rica will be
awarded the Albert Schweitzer Medal in a ceremony on Wednesday,
February 9th at 4:30 p.m. in room 1202 of the Dirksen Senate
Office Building, 1st and Constitution N.E.

Sen. Hubert Humphrey, the Schweitzer Medalist in 1958, will
make the presentation to President Oduber, who is travelling
from Costa Rica expressly to receive the award. It will be an
unofficial visit by the Costa Rican head of state.

The Schweitzer medal is awarded annually by the Animal
Welfare Institute of Washington, D.C., to humanitarians making
Significant contributions to the protection and welfare of
animal life.

Oduber (pronounced OhdooBAIR) is receiving the award in

recognition of his success in creating a 300,000-acre network

of 12 national parks in the tropical forests and coastal areas

of his Central American nation. Hundreds of rare mammal and

bird Species are now protected within the parks. It is recognized
as the most ambitious park development program in the world.

The Costa Rican president has worked closely with international
conservation organizations such as the New York Zoological Society,
The Nature Conservancy, World Wildlife Fund and Rare Animal Relief
Effort to create and operate two major parks in the fragile coastal
forests: Corcovado National Park, an 86,000-acre preserve of
near-virgin forest on the isolated Osa Peninsula on the Pacific
Coast; and Tortuguero National Park, a 52,000-acre lowland rain

forest on the Caribbean Coast.

The preservation of this unspoiled habitat will ensure the

survival of threatened species such as jaguar, scarlet macaw, ( )
more

 




Schweitzer Award
page 2

American crocodile, manatees and the green turtle.
States Mrs. Christine Stevens, president of Animal Welfare
Institute: "The world must have many more foresighted leaders

like President Oduber if the magnificent diversity of wildlife

is to survive. The destruction of their vital habitat continues

at an alarming rate."

The Schweitzer Medal was first awarded in 1954 to Dr. Albert
Schweitzer himself. Authorizing the annual award in his name,
Schweitzer commented:

"I should never have thought that my philOSOphy
which embodies a compassionate attitude toward
all creatures would be noticed and recognized
during my lifetime. I knew this truth would
impose itself one day on thought, but it is the
great and moving surprise of my life that I
should be witness to the progress of ethics.
Your medal celebrates this progress."

Past Schweitzer Medallists include Rachel Carson, Russell
Train, Sen. Warren Magnuson, Reps. Tom Foley and W.R. Poage,
and Justice Abe Fortas.

Oduber, 55, was elected president of Costa Rica in 1974.

He has also served as Costa Rica's ambassador to the United Nations
and as European Ambassador-at-Large.

In 1948 Oduber helped found the Social Democratic Party,
forerunner of the present National Liberation Party. After the
1948 revolution, he helped establish the present democratic form
of government in the small nation of 2 million population. He
describes his political philosophy as social democracy, and
maintains close personal ties with Western European social
domocrats such as Helmut Schmidt, Willy Brandt, Mario Soares,
Harold Wilson and Olaf Palme.

As Foreign Minister from 1962 to 1966, Oduber strongly
supported the U.S.-sponsored Alliance for Progress and developed
a close relationship with President Kennedy. In recent years the
Oduber government has cooperated with the U.S. in international forums.

When Oduber was doing graduate work at the Sorbonne in 1949, he

met and married Marjorie Elliot, the daughter of a Canadian diplomat.

They have a 13-year-old son.

 




Rare Animal Relief Eﬁort, Inc.

C/o National Audubon Society
950 Third Avenue. NewYork. NY. 10022

9 February 1977

COSTA RICAN PARKS HAILED BY CONSERVATIONISTS

Daniel 0duber Quiros, Costa Rica's environmentalist President,-
is in Washington today to receive the Albert Schweitzer Award in re-
cognition of his dedication in pushing through the most ambitious
wilderness preservation program in modern times.

This is the first time the award, given annually by the Animal
Welfare Institute of Washington, DC, has been given to a foreign
head of state. ‘

Since taking office in May 1974, President 0duber has taken a
fledgling National Park Service and spearheaded a comprehensive park
idevelopment program which now protects large tracts of Costa Rica's
highly varied and biologically rich habitats. From tundra-like
landscapes atop some of the country's highest volcanic peaks to
coastal mangrove swamps, more than 300,000 acres of pristine wilder-
ness have now been brought under protection.

Scientists and naturalists from North America and Europe have
been lured to Costa Rica for decades, drawn to this small, democratic
Republic whose natural wonders, unlike those of its neighbors, remain
largely unspoiled. During the past few years, there has been increased
incentive to deVelop this land, and virgin tropical forest has been
cleared at an alarming rate -- more than 100,000 acres annually. Mr.
0duber's efforts to preserve representative types of Costa Rica's
wild lands has spurred the hopes of conservationists everywhere.

The forests of the American tropics have long been recognized as
the biologically richest habitat on earth -- areas which foster the
largest variety of plant and animal species. The birth rates through-
out Latin America, among the highest anywhere, rapacious development
of natural resources andothar economic factors have threatened to destroy,
in a very short space of time, this important ecosystem. Now, in Costa
Rica, and also in countries like Peru, EcuadOr, Argentina, Surinam and
Paraguay, there are serious efforts underway to plan the long-term use
of their wilderness resources. This includes setting areas aside to
be kept in a natural state, and plans for a tourist industry in associa-
tion with those areas.

Recognizing the importance of saving rain forest and other endangered
habitats in Costa Rica, the international conservation community was
quick to rush to the aid of the Costa Rican government in meeting the
large start-up costs associated with new national parks. The World

 




Wildlife Fund, The Nature Conservancy, the New York Zoological Society
and the Rare Animal Relief Effort (RARE) have cooperated in raising
more than $200,000 to date to aid these parks. The Costa Rican govern-
ment has committed several million dollars to this program.

President 0duber has stated that he wants Costa Rica to become
known as "the garden of Latin America", a place where both Costa Rican
citizens and visitors from abroad can enjoy a unique and meaningful
experience.

The Schweitzer Award is given specifically for outstanding personal
contribution to the welfare of animals. Since Costa Rica's parks now
give refuge to a host of rare and threatened animals, it is most fitting
for President 0duber to be this year's recipient. The recently estab-
lished Corcovado National Park, for example, is home for Jaguars, Tapirs,
Giant Anteaters and other endangered mammals. Among the birds, the giant
Harpy Eagle, largest and most powerful bird of prey in the world, survives
here, living off a plentiful supply of monkeys, its principal prey.

Tortuguero National Park, on the Caribbean coast, contains the
largest Atlantic Green Turtle colony in the Caribbean, and has breeding
populations of manatees and the highly endangered American Crocodile.

Each of the twelve existing parks containsa unique assemblage of plants
and animals; each has its own special beauty and charm.

It will be years before the world can fully comprehend or appreciate
the importance of Daniel 0duber's forward and courageous program. His is
a contribution that will benefit all mankind. It is hoped that this
award will help to signal similar action elsewhere in Latin America.

 




_ y _ , . ‘ _ y 1 1 ., E" p <,. _. .5v<~ ‘.. "4-: '-"‘, V . . N
- r.<1*"a"":'.' ‘4 4 ‘ "'4 ‘7 " 6N - ' nv- “a “' - ‘ « ha 131’" .-'-"‘ '"a' 1~ v .3". "Liv-7'5 5 ‘ 2’ 9" v . r547" . f~"“ ’7 ~ :va “ "f‘. ‘ .
. ,4' 7H"; ”@335? ' § . , A: Wiﬁﬁ'f‘i $1.33,? , ”Y. 32;: . E‘Qmﬁ“; ): 1:33 “Ii a”... 4 g «3'3 1:- ~ .1.“ 6",“ . s '1. “.3 n _ ‘ 5 A. 5,” ,. y w , . V . y,

a: - ' , a";
.. - .3... V . 7.,
W. A" "m”rd‘zﬂz'. 3 ‘1

f 3.91.5.1. - a, r: 2
f .1 «2“?

REMARKS OF SENATOR HUBERT H. HUMPHREY

PRESENTATION OF SCHWEITZER AWARD
to
PRESIDENT DANIEL ODUBER
of
REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA

SPONSORED BY:

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

Room 1202, DSOB
February 9, 1977

President Oduber, Mrs. Christine Stevens, ladies and
gentlemen. ' 1

I am honored that the Animal Welfare Institute, ably directed
by my friend Mrs. Stevens, has asked me to present today its
distinguished Schweitzer Award to an outstanding international
leader, President Daniel Oduber of Costa Rica.

President Oduber is widelv known for his political achievements,
as leader of the National Liberation Party, as his country's
Ambassador in EurOpe and the United Nations, as a member and
president of Costa Rica's legislative assembly. His election to
the preSidency in 1974 capped a long and highly successful
career in his country's politics. A good friend to the United
States, he has worked to strengthen constructive ties between
our two nations.

This ceremony today highlights a lesser known facet of
President Oduber's concerns. The Schweitzer medal awarded to
President Oduber today recognizes his efforts in creating an
outstanding network of national parks in Costa Rica's forests
and coastlands to preserve unspoiled a homeland and refuge for
that country's native wildlife, including species that
otherwise would disappear.

This park development, carried out in c00peration with
international conservation groups, is a monumental project.
The vision and commitment demonstrated by Costa Rica is an
example to countries with far greater resources.

Truly, President Oduber deserves our praise, and it is my
proud duty to associate myself with his concern for protecting
and preserving wildlife and its natural habitat.

Animals do not vote. What is done for their welfare may
have no immediate political rewards. And so organizations such
as the Animal Welfare Institute serve a vital purpose, by
constantly reminding us that this globe does not belong to man
alone.

Too often, the havoc and cruelty we deal to animals is
invisible because no one speaks up in their behalf. Animals
have been.the unwitting victims of human civilization. They
have been hunted to extinction, they have succumbed to man's
thoughtless exploitation of their natural habitat. And they
have died from oil spills and waters polluted by industrial wastes.

To accept the suffering and extinction of God's creatures as
an inevitable consequence of human progress requires a very narrow,
diminished view of man's place in the universe. Our rationality
should raise us from the level of predator and destroyer to
protector of our felIbw living creatures.

Some years back, I was the proud recipient of the Schweitzer
Award. It was granted me for my role as chief Senate sponsor of
the Federal Humane Slaughter Act passed in 1958.

 




-2-

The debate on this bill was long. Yet its purpose was
modest. It simply asked that the necessary slaughter of animals
for human food be done in a merciful way. Nobody could witness
the barbaric practices then prevalent without feeling repugnance
and disbelief. But many pe0ple simply preferred to dismiss the
issue from their minds.

At that time, I quoted the great humanitarian Albert
Schweitzer, for whom this medal is named. He warned that "no one
may shut his eyes and think that the pain which is therefore
invisible to him is nonexistent."

But in any case, we should never allow our natural human
impulses to be blinded by the delusion that dollars and cents
are the only criteria for sound public policy. Almost always,
such cost benefits hold only at close range; and almost always
to rely on them alone is an inadmissible distortion of human values.

It would be difficult to place a cash value on the beauties
of nature that your system of parks in Costa Rica will preserve.
And it would be difficult to estimate in dollars and cents the
suffering spared the helpless creatures that are at the mercy of

man 0

But we know something of the cost of ignoring these values.
Respect and kindness toward our fellow living creatures is surely
the mark of any civilization that sincerely cares about the quality
of life. The careless destruction of animals, through deliberate
cruelty, or wanton carelessness, erodes the morality of the culture

which tolerates it.

There is so much that remains to be done to preserve animal
species from extinction, to minimize the impact of industrialization
on the natural environment and the creatures that depend on it, to
avoid unnecessary destruction, cruelty and killing. The parks you
haVe set aside in your lovely country are a priceless heritage for

.your people, and a witness to the humane values of your society.

. . President Oduber, I want to welcome you to a proud fraternity.
All of us who have been honored to receive the Schweitzer Award must
consider it one of our most cherished trophies. Since you have
traveled from Costa Rica expressly for this presentation, I know
you appreciate its value. - »

On behalf of the Animal Welfare Institute, and all of us who
have Worked for the welfare of animals, I am proud to present you
with the Schweitzer Award for 1976.

 




. ‘RareAnimal Relief Effort Inc.

w 0/0 Naigt nalAu du bon Soc ciety
A; 950Th rdAve e.eN wYo r.k NY. 10022

(Dew C‘MN‘TM {9)

HEN is More ﬁx OAU‘OW‘
(W0 Pn‘OWS HQAR3 --

Nm :1“ wt law £01015

61%" Wm +0 new?" \
I wk wow \d’w was
~9KC¢\\M."

 




Rare Animal Relief Effort, Inc

C/o National Audubon Society
950Third Avenue NewYork, NY 10022

MEMQ_
To: Christine Stevens
From: David 0. Hi1]
Subject: Schweitzer Meda]

Date: December 6, 1976

Clarance Toddman is our present
Ambassador to Costa Rica. He is a biack,
originaiiy from the Virgin Isiands (I think),
and is very weii 1iked and respected in Costa

Rica (for a change). He has personaiiy visited
The Monteverde Cioud Forest Preserve, and
has expressed a strong interest in conservation.

I think he shouid be quickiy brought
into the picture, once Oduber has accepted,
and perhaps he wouid accompany Oduber to
Washington.

I hope he is not repiaced eariy in
the new administration.

Warm regards,

em

 

DOH/amf

 




1/11/77

Alvaro F. Ugalde, Director

National Parks Service
Ministry of Agriculture

Apartment 1008A _
San Jose, Costa Rica

Dear Mr. Ugalde,
After your telephone conversation this morning, Mrs. Stevens asked me
to send you some further information on the Schweitzer Medal. I hope

this will give you a further.convept of the distinction of previous
recipients and a sense of the importance the medal has in our eyes.

With best wishes,

Sincerely,

Diane Halverson
Administrative Assistant

 




January 13, 1977 ,

Carol Cipof

Medallic Art Ccmpany
Old.Ridgebury Road ,_
Danbury, Cannﬁcticut 06810

Dear MB. Cipoﬁi

Please engrave the 1976 Scheitzer Medal with the following
name:

Daniel Oduber
Send it to me Special Delivery at?

1686 3min Street, N.w.
Washington D.C. 20007

telephone no.: 202-337~2332

; .Pleasa advise when you will be sending it. The ceremony
to present the award will be held February 10th.

This latter follows our telephone conVeraations today.

Thank you..
Sincerely,

Christine Stevens
President

 




PRESS RELEASE

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

PO. Box 3650 Washington, DC. 20007 Contact: John Gleiber
(202) 337-2332

 

SEN. HUMPHREY TO PRESENT SCHWEITZER
AWARD T0 COSTA RICA'S PRESIDENT

 

 

WASHINGTON -- President Daniel Oduber of Costa Rica will be
awarded the Albert Schweitzer Medal in a ceremony on Wednesday,
February 9th at 4:30 p.m. in room 1202 of the Dirksen Senate
Office Building, lst and Constitution N.E.

Sen. Hubert Humphrey, the Schweitzer Medalist in 1958, will
make the presentation to President Oduber, who is travelling
from Costa Rica expressly to receive the award. It will be an
unofficial visit by the Costa Rican head of state.

The Schweitzer medal is awarded annually by the Animal
Welfare Institute of Washington, D.C., to humanitarians making
significant contributions to the protection and welfare of
animal life.

Oduber (pronounced OhdooBAIR) is receiving the award in
recognition of his success in creating a 300,000-acre network
of 12 national parks in the trOpical forests and coastal areas
of his Central American nation. Hundreds of rare mammal and
bird species are now protected within the parks. It is recognized
as the most ambitious park develOpment program in the world.

The Costa Rican president has worked closely with international
conservation organizations such as the New York Zoological Society,
The Nature Conservancy, World Wildlife Fund and Rare Animal Relief
Effort to create and operate two major parks in the fragile coastal
forests: Corcovado National Park, an 86,000-acre preserve of
near-virgin forest on the isolated Osa Peninsula on the Pacific
Coast; and Tortuguero National Park, a 52,000-acre lowland rain

forest on the Caribbean Coast.

The preservation of this unspoiled habitat will ensure the

survival of threatened species such as jaguar, scarlet macaw, ( >
more

 




Schweitzer Award
page 2

American crocodile, manatees and the green turtle.
States Mrs. Christine Stevens, president of Animal Welfare
Institute: "The world must have many more foresighted leaders

like President Oduber if the magnificent diversity of wildlife

is to survive. The destruction of their vital habitat continues

at an alarming rate."

The Schweitzer Medal was first awarded in 1954 to Dr. Albert
Schweitzer himself. Authorizing the annual award in his name,
Schweitzer commented:

"I should never have thought that my phiIOSOphy
which embodies a compassionate attitude toward
all creatures would be noticed and recognized
during my lifetime. I knew this truth would
impose itself one day on thought, but it is the
great and moving surprise of my life that I
should be witness to the progress of ethics.
Your medal celebrates this progress."

Past Schweitzer Medallists include Rachel Carson, Russell
Train, Sen. Warren Magnuson, Reps. Tom Foley and W.R. Poage,
and Justice Abe Fortas.

Oduber, 55, was elected president of Costa Rica in 1974.

He has also served as Costa Rica's ambassador to the United Nations
and as European Ambassador-at-Large.

In 1948 Oduber helped found the Social Democratic Party,
forerunner of the present National Liberation Party. After the
1948 revolution, he helped establish the present democratic form
of government in the small nation of 2 million population. He
describes his political philosophy as social democracy, and
maintains close personal ties with Western European social
domocrats such as Helmut Schmidt, Willy Brandt, Mario Soares,
Harold Wilson and Olaf Palme.

As Foreign Minister from 1962 to 1966, Oduber strongly
supported the U.S.-sponsored Alliance for Progress and developed
a close relationship with President Kennedy. In recent years the
Oduber government has c00perated with the U.S. in international forums.

When Oduber was doing graduate work at the Sorbonne in 1949, he
met and married Marjorie Elliot, the daughter of a Canadian diplomat.

They have a 13-year-old son.

 




