THE

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

QUARTERLY

 

P.O. Box 3650 Washington, D.C. 20007

Supplement to Whales vs Whalers, 1981-1985

 

Fall 1981

 

One more heave!

At this year’s meeting of the International Whaling Commission in
Brighton, England, a three-quarters majority of nations voted that
sperm whales no longer be killed and the monstrous “cold” (non-
explosive) harpoon be replaced a year from now with a less dastardly
device. That is the good news. The bad news is that three countries have
filed objections (see page 11) and that yet again the bid to put a stop to
all commercial whaling failed. One more heave could do it, though!

Once a tight little club of whaling
and ex-whaling nations, the “NC is
now more and more being “infiltra-
ted” by those whose philosophy has
nothing in common with the view
that whales are simply a resource to
be exploited. This year there were
seven newcomers and six of them
clearly believe that whales have an
intrinsic right to life and “belong” to
all nations as part of our common
heritage. (The seventh nation, China,
neither spoke nor voted-“this year
we learn”.)

Thanks to these conservationist re-
inforcements-with Uruguay, India
and Jamaica adding passion and elo-
quence to the fireopower of their
votes— plus some very astute tactics
by the more seasoned campaigners,
the Japanese were outgunned and
also, for once, outmanoeuvred. On
the crucial sperm-whale vote the
Japanese “bloc” disintegrated.

As always at the IWC, though, the
victory had a price tag attached to it.
Certain whaling nations asked for,
and got, more whales in their next
year’s quota than the scientific com-
mittee had recommended. Peru was
given extra Bryde’s whales, Iceland
and Spain extra fin whales, and even
Greenland, via Denmark, was again
allotted 10 humpbacks despite land-
ing 13 last year and despite the per-
ilous state of the stock.

Least deserving were perhaps the
Spaniards. They may have been
helped by the paltry scientific data
for their area, but more than one-

third of their catch last year con-
sisted of undersized whales. Not only
had they ﬂagrantly broken [WC rules
but as the US Commissioner, Tom
Garrett, pointed out, “Anyone who is
familiar with the history of whaling
knows that as the stocks approached
collapse the percentage of under-
sized whales in the catch increased
dramatically.”

Rising over the past four years from
5% to 20% to 29% to 35%, the in-
crease in the Spanish catch of “baby
fins” has certainly been dramatic.
And with Portugal, still outside the
IWC. also taking whales, the north
Atlantic stock could be in deep
trouble.

As for the Japanese the bitter pill
they were forced to swallow was
coated with sugar to help it down.
They were given 1030 more minke
whales than last year and a little bit
of hope that a sperm-whale hunt may
still be permitted in the north Pacific.
The scientific committee will meet
next March to assess Japan’s claim
that stocks in the area are sufficient
to allow a quota. But a three-quarters
majority is now needed to overturn
the new zero ruling.

Golden opinions

One entirely satisfactory aspect of
this year’s meeting was the perform-
ance of the United States. Whereas in
recent years the US has been vacillat-
ing and even devious, the head of
delegation, Tom Garrett, was force-
in] and straightforward, winning

ﬂ
E
o
E
0

Q
E

-C
o

.3
g

'o

2

U

Head of US delegation, Tom Garrett

golden opinions from, conservation-
ists. While Garrett’s lifelong dedica-
tion to the saving of whales more or
less guaranteed his strong stand, he
was undoubtedly helped by the ab-
sence this year of an issue which has
gravely impaired US effectiveness in
the past—that of Eskimos versus
bowheads.

However the issue has not gone
away; it has just been put to sleep
until the 1983 meeting, by which
time much research must have been
accomplished and hard thinking
done to ensure the survival of one of
the world’s most endangered
cetaceans.

 

It is time to recognize the errors of
the past. Available information is
inadequate to protect the whales
while commercial whaling con-
tinues, and it is for this reason as
well as others that the United
States has proposed an indefinite
moratorium on commercial whal-
ing. I urge you to join with us and
other people throughout the world
to secure the protection of these
magnificent creatures and wish
you success in your important

work. Q MA.

An extract from President Reagan’s
message to the IWC.

 

 

 

 




 

Excerpts from Statement by
Tom Garrett, Acting US Com-
missioner to the International
Whaling Commission, before
the House Subcommittee on
Human Rights, 22 September
1981.

Prior to the 1981 Brighton meeting,
an analysis presented by Greenpeace
showed that the quantity of whale meat
exported to Japan had remained nearly
constant for the years 1979 and 1980,
at around 4,000 tons per year. This ap-
peared to corroborate reports that the
Spanish whalers were exceeding their
1980 maximum of240 whales.

Although Spain denied killing in ex-
cess of the 1980 quota, they did release
statistics showing a rapid rise in the
percentage of‘undersized whales taken,
reaching almost one third of the total
1980 catch.

The Scientific Committee produced
three conflicting quota recommenda-
tions for this population for the 1982
quota: one for zero, one for 137 (the
average take for the period 1968— 77),
and a third for 210 animals. The
Spanish Commissioner requested 240
whales. Eventually a quota of 210 fin
whales was adopted. All American sci-
entists present believed that the increas-
ing kill of immature animals may reflect
a lack of enough mature animals to
make up the quota and might indicate
changes in population structure similar
to those preceding the collapse of the
Antarctic and the North Pacific fin
whale stocks. We should continue to
monitor this situation carefully.

Humane killing

Humane killing was a major substan-
tive concern during the Brighton meet-
ing. After much discussion, the IWC
agreed to accept a ban on the use of
non-explosive harpoons for minke
whales beginning with the 1982-83
pelagic season and 1983 coastal sea-
son. However, any of the affected
countries may file an objection and we
must have a course of action in mind to
meet this possibility. The other whaling
nations concerned may be looking to
the Japanese to provide the technology
needed for compliance. There is a gen-
eral feeling that the Japanese can
develop an efficient explosive harpoon
for minke whales which will not destroy
a large amount of meat.

The reaction of Japan and other
whaling nations to the events at Brigh-
ton depends in some measure on what
we do. Japan, in particular, may not
want to risk losing the fish it catches in
the eastern Bering Sea and Gulf of
Alaska for a few hundred sperm
whales.

I would expect Japan to initiate dis-
cussions soon with conservationist
countries, particularly with the United
States, about the future of whaling. If
we are prepared to bargain at high
levels of government, it may be possible
to lay the groundwork this year for a
phaseout of commercial whaling.

This year worldwide sentiment

 

against whaling was felt as never before
in the Commission. At the same time,
with concern over juridical zones in-
truding increasingly into the policies of
the various nations, the future of whales
may yet become hostage to “larger
concerns.” If this is a time of hope for
bringing commercial whaling to a close,
it is also a time of considerable peril.

I believe that our nation will stand
firm on our policy of opposition to com-
mercial whaling, enunciated in the
President’s letter to the 1981 IWC
meeting. I believe that many of the
other governments will stand by us and
that together we will prove equal to the
challenge.

 

 

 

Congressmen Pete McCloskey and Don Bonker, stalwart supporters
of the whale, confer at the IWC meeting in Brighton, England.

Friends of the whale

 

Credit- John Domont

 

 

Japanese Whalers at the Buddhist Temple

The chief priest, wearing a canary-
yellow robe and with his head shaved,
began praying: “Release their souls from
agony. Let them go over to the Other Side
and become Buddhas.” Then he and the
other priests chanted, on and on, hyp-
notically. . .

Finally the chief priest delivered a short
homily: “I am pleased that you have
chosen our temple for this service. I used
to eat whale meat in the army. And so I
feel very close to whales.” The reference to
whales was not out of place, since this
service was attended by employees of
Japan’s largest whaling company. The
souls they prayed for were those of the
whales they had killed. . .

Had the service been an act of genuine

Buddhist piety and not a sham, the
whalers and company officials would have
repented of their innumerable violations of
the first Buddhist precept of not killing,
they would have prayed to Kannon, the
bodhisattva of compassion, for forgive-
ness; and they would have pledged to
cease the further slaughter of innocent
whales. . .

But of course none of this took place. As
for the Buddhist priests who lent them-
selves and their temple to this Charade,
motivated no doubt by visions of a large
donation from the whaling company, their
actions speak eloquently of the fallen state
of Japanese Buddhism today.

Extracts from To Cherish a Life by Roshi
Philip Kapleau.

 

 




 

“It takes outlaws to stop outlaws”

Sea Shepherd [1, the whale conservation
vessel, entered Siberian waters last Au-
gust—and came out again with a Soviet
“escort” and photographs that brand the
Russians as liars to the IWC. Pleading the
subsistence needs of Siberian aborigines,
the Soviets have for many years been
granted an annual quota of around 200
gray whales “exclusively for native use.”
But whale conservationists have for some
time had nasty suspicions—which have
now turned out to be nasty facts. In the
following article Eric Schwartz, one of the
crew of Sea Shepherd II, explains.
“Sometimes it takes outlaws to stop out-
laws”, says conservation activist, Paul Wat-
son. Long dissatisfied with the traditional
weapon of petitions and protests, Watson
was the man responsible, as skipper of Sea
Shepherd, for the ramming and sinking of
the notorious pirate whaler, Sierra. Now he
has turned his sights on the Russians.

Sea Shepherd ll, skippered by Watson
and with an international crew of 8 women
and 21 men, left Glasgow, Scotland, last
April. Four months and 14,500 miles later
this ex-North Sea fishing trawler entered
Russian waters west of Alaska. The aim?
To stop the Soviet killing of the gray
whale. The plan called for documenting il-
licit Russian operations and, if possible,

 

  

Here in Loren, Siberia, slaughtered gray whales are landed and women
carve up the meat. On a hill above stands the mink farm. Inset: Watson

finding the commercial whaleship
Zevezdny and putting her out of action.

Undetected, or at least undeterred at the
start, Watson and crew searched briefly for
the Zevezdny. Unable to find her they then
steamed to the small Russian port of
Loren. Here, Watson suspected, the Rus-
sians slaughtered the whales and fed them
to minks on nearby farms.

Into a bay teeming with gray whales
Watson and two other crew members
were lowered, striking out for the shore in
a small rubber boat. On arrival they found
women carving whale meat, while on a hill
above stood a mink farm within a con-
veyor belt’s reach of the slaughtering area.

Soldiers, assuming they were Russian,
stood casually on the beach as Watson and
company photographed the operation.
Watching them drift to within 15 feet of the
shore, the soldiers began to wave, motion-
ing them to land. They were within easy
shouting or shooting distance and Watson
jovially, in English, asked them what they
wanted.

Startled by the revelation that the crew
was not Russian, the soldiers ran—the
three raced back to the ship— and events
began rapidly unfolding.

——The lookout in the crow’s nest spotted
a helicopter gunship in the distance.

 

 

and two companions, cameras at the ready, head for the shore.

Credit: Sea Shepherd Conservation Society, Los Angeles, CA

-—Word reached the ship over the ham
radio that the Kremlin had sent a diplo-
matic note to the American embassy in
Moscow, informing them that the Sea
Shepherd crew would be arrested for
espionage. The American State Depart-
ment immediately declared that they were
maintaining an “observer’s status.”

—— Another helicopter arrived.

—A ship appeared in the radar and sped
toward the Sea Shepherd. The captain
pronounced it a warship capable of doing
three times the Sea Shepherd’s speed, and
decided to turn back toward the border.

Amid diving helicopters and a maneu-
vering warship a thick Russian accent
came through the radio: “Sea Shepherd!
Stop immediately!”

Saved by a whale

“Stop killing whales!” shouted back Wat-
son, and as the crew looked toward the
Russians and prepared for the worst, a
whale surfaced between the two ships.
It swam steadily between them, as if
drawing with its body the line of a
truce.

Almost immediately the Russians stop-
ped dead in the water. They seemed un-
certain what to do next. They dropped
back further. The helicopters disappeared.
The Sea Shepherd re-entered American
waters.

Two additional forays were made into
Siberia in search of the Zevezdny. On the
third mission two warships blocked the Sea
Shepherd’s path; running short of fuel and
provisions, Captain Paul Watson decided
to call it quits.

Watson calls the mission “80% success-
ful” and plans to take the photographic
proof of the Russian operation to the in-
fractions committee of the IWC.

“If this is true,” said Tom Garrett, head
of the US delegation to the IWC, when the
Soviet operation was described to him, “it
certainly makes liars out of the Russians.”
Garrett said that when the IWC meets next
summer in England the US will ask that
international observers be allowed to visit
that Siberian area.

“Two months before this mission,” said
Watson, “no one knew for certain that the
Russians were hunting gray whales com-
mercially. Now the world knows, and if
international pressure is brought to bear
the IWC will respond and the Russians will
be forced to stop.”

Finding no shortage of challenges, Wat-
son and his Sea Shepherd crew will plow
on. In February the ship will reach Iki
island, Japan, and confront Japanese
fishermen who spear and club dolphins to
death annually.

 




 

Greenpeace charge

Greenpeace has charged that last No-
vember in Japan a baby humpback was
hacked to death for its meat. From a pho-
tograph of the remains, whale biologist
Robert Brownell was able to verify the
species. Greenpeace has protested strong-
ly to the Japanese; the highly endangered
humpback has been officially protected by
the IWC since 1966.

Justice catches up

On 19 July 1978 a crew member on
board the purse seiner Repulse amused
himself by shooting repeatedly at a hump-
back whale. Two and a half years later
justice caught up. Two men from the US
Forest Service had spotted the outrage
and reported it. On 13 February 1981 in
Anchorage a federal judge fined the
owners and operators of the boat a hefty
$15,000 for a “heedless and senseless”
violation of the Marine Mammal Protection
Act.

Martita dances

From The New Haven Register, 9 August

Martita Goshen, who has toured the
world on behalf of the Animal Welfare In-
stitute and the Cousteau Society, creates
dances in homage to near-extinct wild-
life. Her hope is to influence mankind in
the preservation of endangered species.
And well she might, judging by the effec-
tiveness of her choreography.

Especially remarkable was her depiction
of a wolf’s frantic flight in a wilderness in-
vaded by hunters safely packaged in
planes. Transversing the enormous stage
in high-speed runs, she evoked the terror
of the helpless animal who is mercilessly
shot down.

Tragic, too, was the fate of a harpooned
whale. Projecting an uncanny illusion of
the immensity of oceanic space, the dancer
poignantly enacted the whale’s slow expi-
ration as explosive harpoons ripped its
interior.

 

JAPAN, NORWAY and ICELAND filed
objections 9 November to the cold har-
poon ban set during the 1981 IWC meet-
ing, and Japan filed an objection to the
sperm whaling prohibition. Significantly,
the Soviet Union, South Korea and Brazil
did not file cold harpoon objections
although they take large numbers of minke
whales. Because other countries did object,
however, they have an additional 90 days
to file on the cold harpoon.

 

 

 

Help this Russian
save whales!

Mikhail Baryshnikov, Artiétic Director of
the American Ballet Theatre, is a Soviet
defector. He is also an ardent lover of
whales who deplores their continued
slaughter. At NBC studios he has made
televised tapes, lasting 10, 20 and 30 sec-
onds, which movingly state his views on
whales— and whalers. These tapes are in-
tended for television stations which are
willing to run them without charge as a
public service.

Please try to get your local t.v. station to
participate. Then, if successful, write to us
at AWI giving all the necessary details and
we Will speed the tape on its way. Help to
save whales! We’re winning—but we must
keep up the pressure!

 

Mikhail Baryshnikov is here seen sporting
his AWI T—shirt. You can have one too!
Adult small, medium, large or extra large,
$6.00,- children small and medium, $5.00.
Order direct from AWI.

 

Winter 1982

 

Japan, USSR, Iceland,

Norway “object”
to “NC decisions

An end to sperm whaling and
a ban on the use of the cold
(non-explosive) harpoon were
the two chief gains at last sum-
mer’s meeting of the Interna-
tional Whaling Commission in
Brighton, England. Now both
these decisions—the one ar-
rived at by an overwhelming ma-
jority (25-1), the other by con-
sensus - are being challenged.

Japan has filed an objection to the
new embargo on sperm whaling in the
western North Pacific (elsewhere
sperm whales were already protected)
even before a further meeting of the
IWC on this issue in March. Japan has
also objected, along with the Soviet
Union, Norway and Iceland, to the cold
harpoon ban on the grounds that a
humane alternative may not have been
developed in time for the 1982/83
season. And if not, so these nations are
saying, the small minke whale must con-
tinue to die a slow, agonizing death.

Japan is potentially vulnerable to
the Pelly Amendment and to the
Packwood—Magnuson Amendment.
Taken together, these Acts of Con-
gress declare that any nation contra-
vening the regulations of the IWC may
be forbidden the US. market for its
fish products and shall have its fishing
allocation within the US. ZOO-mile
zone cut by at least 50% and perhaps
100%.

Five Congressmen have already
taken up this point with Secretary of
State, Alexander Haig. In a letter
dated 3 December they say: “We urge
you to advise Japan of the
preponderant concern with which
Congress views their actions and to
make it clear that these objections (to
IWC decisions) will have a bearing on
fisheries allocations as is clearly per-
mitted by the so-called ‘basket clause’
of Section 201(e) of the Magnuson
Fishery Conservation and Manage-
ment Act.”

Save the Whales Sweatshirts

Keep warm this winter in AWI Save the
Whales hooded sweatshirts. Available in
three sizes: medium, large and extra large
and three colors: navy blue, gunmetal grey
and red; $15 each.

Spain to end
whaling

The Spanish government has decided to
support the moratorium on commercial
whaling at the next meeting of the Interna-
tional Whaling Commission and to end
Spanish whaling. A news report in El Pais
18 December 1981 states in part: “The
Commission of Agriculture of the National

Assembly approved yesterday, with the -

sole opposition of the Union of Central
Democrats, a motion that the delegation of
the Spanish administration before the IWC
will Vote in favour of the moratorium on
the fishing of whales. With this resolution,

 

 

 




 

Spain incorporates herself with the conser-
vationist block at the IWC, and abandons
the sector headed by Japan and the USSR
which until now has impeded, with only a
third of their votes, an end to the commer—
cial capture of the whales.”

The decision was a result of a motion
formalized by the Spanish Parliament on
21 July 1981 consisting of five points
including the absorption of whaling
industry workers into fishing activities,
refusal of the government to permit an in—
crease in the whaling fleet, and inclusion of
assistance from associations for the defense
of nature in the Spanish Delegation to the

IWC as well as the above-mentioned
moratorium vote and the ending of
Spanish whaling. The vote on the motion,
first taken November 5th, was a tie. On 16
December the motion was approved by 16
votes to 10. At the time of the debate, the

Minister for Agriculture was Lamo de
Spinosa who is now Spokesman for the
Parliamentary Group of the Union of Cen-
tral Democrats. This democratic decision to
protect whales represents the greatest vic-
tory since Australia went out of whaling in
1978.

It is interesting to note that the Spanish
Parliamentary motion on whale protection
states that Japan is Spain’s exclusive buyer
of whale products and that Spain joined
the IWC after Japan passed a law prohibit-
ing importation of whale products from
countries that were not members of the
IWC. Japan was compelled to pass this law
because of the international outcry against
pirate whalers.

Thus, the pirate whaler “Sierra,” whose
misdeeds brought about IWC action
against commerce by IWC members with
nonmember countries, led to this major
reversal of policy.

 

 

fin whale from AW] president.

 

King Juan Carlos and Queen Sofia accept John Peny’s sculptured

 

 

 

Spring 1982

 

Long live whales and the scrimshaw

artist!

The ancient art of scrimshawing on the
tooth of a sperm whale is gaining a new
lease of life—and a respectable one, for no
sperm whale need be killed before the artist
goes to work! Polymer ivory carves like
ivory, feels like ivory and looks like ivory.
But it is not ivory; it is a man-made plastic
with a durability even greater than ivory.

So sperm whales no longer have to die

Pirate whaler
sighted

A pirate whaler has been sighted in the
vicinity of the Hawaiian humpback’s migra-
tion route. On 22 December the captain of
the fishing Vessel Driftwood sailing from
San Diego to Honolulu sighted a whaling
vessel near 150 W 30 N. The captain of the
Driftwood, Mr Tom Pfister, said the vessel
had a bow-to-bridge catwalk and a
mounted harpoon and was unmistakably a
whaling ship.

All pelagic whaling in the North Pacific
was banned by the IWC in 1979. The
pirate left the area very quickly after being
sighted and conservation organizations in
Hawaii have offered a reward. for informa-
tion on its whereabouts.

 

for the scrimshaw artist to live. And the art-
ist’s finished work, though almost indis-
tinguishable from the real thing, costs a
whole lot less. For details send to: Har-
bourcrafts Company, 41 Bridge St., Fair-
haven, MA 02719.

 

STALEMATE AT IWC

At the special March meeting
of the International Whaling
Commission, held at Japan’s in-
sistence, no action was taken on
setting a quota on sperm whales
that Japanese Whalers want to
kill. Twenty-four nations each
wasted thousands of dollars
sending representatives to
Brighton, England following the
Scientific Committee meeting in
Cambridge. Before any substan-
tive discussion could be held on
the report of the Scientific
Committee, Japan unexpectedly
brought the special session to a
close by saying that any decision
on this issue should be post-
poned until the regular meeting
of the IWC in July. Taken com-
pletely by surprise, the Commis-
sion consented to the Japanese
request.

The number of [WC-member
countries opposed to a continua-
tion of commercial whaling has
grown to a near-three quarters
majority, while the number of
whales over which the handful of
whaling nations continue to hag-
gle continues to decline. This
summer’s IWC meeting could be
pivotal.

Please write to President Ronald
Reagan expressing your appreciation
of the forceful letter he wrote last year
to the International Whaling Commis-
sion and urging him to send a
message again to the July IWC
meeting. Ask him, too, to enforce the
Pelly and Packwood-Magnuson
amendments against whaling nations
who file objections to IWC decisions.

Your letters should be addressed:

The President
The White House,
Washington, DC. 20500

 

 

 




 

THE SHADOW OF DOOM

An excellent article by Eiji Fujiwara in the Japanese magazine Asahi Shimbun
Science demonstrated in scientific terms the danger of continued commercial
whaling. With charts comparing the destruction of a number of endangered
species from rhinoceroses to orangutans, Professor Fujiwara showed the parallel
with whales and pointed to the whaling industry’s self-defeating justifications.

Eiji Fujiwara is Professor of Animal Behavior at Tsukuba University, Ibaragi,
Japan. Edited excerpts from a translation of his article follow.

In my opinion commercial whaling should
be discontinued entirely for some time.
Many Japanese readers will be outraged by
this statement. But in recent years
Japanese reaction to the whaling issue, in-
stead of being one of calm consideration,
has taken on a tone of nationalism, fueled
by a feeling that Japan has been victimized
on the world stage.

The arguments put forward are nothing
more than a struggle to defend the whaling
industry, and this has to be recognized
clearly from the outset. Facing bankruptcy
the industry is fighting to survive, using
every possible means. Scientists are mobi-
lized, government organizations are called
in to assist, the mass media are used to
manipulate public opinion. Behind all this,
though, lies hidden the key to the problem.
It is provided by nature herself.

Industrial activities are extremely impor-
tant and it is quite natural to struggle
against bankruptcy. However industries
dealing with wildlife require strict self-

 

Japan, long a target of conserva-
tionists who charge it has hunted
some species to the brink of ex-
tinction, has resisted pressure to
abandon the once-thriving indus-
try. However it acknowledges
that anti-whaling movements, ris-
ing costs and international re-
strictions on catch are exacting
their toll.

 

discipline. From olden times innumerable
species have been driven into or close to
extinction. Pursue the cause and most of
the time you will find that in the chase for
profit, industries have never slackened the
pace of killing.

lnvariably industries dealing with wildlife
so conduct their business that sooner or
later the rate of profit based on investment
exceeds the rate of production of wildlife
resources. Characteristically the process
then continues until the resource is ex-
hausted. The pattern has been likened (by
Colin Clark) to a fatal disease which takes
the following course: 1) Warning signs that
the animals are becoming fewer are ig-
nored—“We are the ones who know best”
or “We have investigated and found them
numerous.” 2) Warning signs become
stronger; so too does their rejection. 3)

Warning signs become too strong to ig-
nore. Now the ace in the pack is played—
the right to a livelihood. By this stage you
can be sure that the shadow of doom lies
dark upon both animal and industry.

Preventing extinction has
priority

But when industrial activity has finally
ceased—killed off by the crash in the
animal population—it may be too late. The
species may be irreversibly on the way to

 

Faced with massive layoffs and
plummeting profits the six
Japanese whaling concerns
merged in 1976 under one roof,
Nippon Kyodo Hogei, in a battle
for survival.

 

extinction. And no amount of money or
brainpower will bring back a lifeform that
has been lost. Here is the fundamental dif-
ference between commercial death and the
death of a species.

To regard wildlife as a resource that may
be utilized like livestock is permissible. But
here too there is a fundamental difference.
Livestock are counted individually and we
have wide knowledge of their reproduction
rates, ailments, life histories and so on.
There can be no danger of extermination.
On the other hand we have no such
precise knowledge of most wildlife. Iron-
ically we have had all too many examples
of populations only becoming known when
the species is on the brink of extinction.

 

The Japanese whaling industry’s
decline is perhaps best illustrated
in the coastal town of Taiji. Whal-
ing there dates back 700 years. In
the late 19th century it was the
world’s largest fishery base. Now
it is trying to develop a tourist in-
dustry with a museum and other
attractions to promote its image
as a “whaling town”.

 

Here is the most important point in the
whaling debate: cultural arguments and the
“rights” of the industry pay no attention to
extinction of species.

Because scientific methods of counting

wildlife populations are at best “estimates”,
all hunting quotas are gambles with the life
of the species. The data which the whaling
industry acclaims for its reliability is based
on very simple research started in 1978
and on earlier whaling statistics. Almost

 

In 1980, the last year for which
figures are available, Japanese
whalers took 19,000 tons of
whalemeat. In addition Japan im-
ported 25,000 tons from the
Soviet Union, Iceland, Spain,
Peru, Chile, Brazil, Norway and
South Korea. The entire Soviet
and Icelandic catches were
bought by Japan. A breakdown on
imports from other countries is
not available.

 

nothing can be established from this kind of
imperfect data. Dispute within the Interna-
tional Whaling Commission is inevitable,
given our scientific immaturity in this field.

But we cannot leave it at that. In estab-
lishing models and parameters there is a
basic difference between the side seeking to
protect a species from extinction and the
side seeking to defend an industry. The
former tries to assure safety by taking a
minimum number of animals; the latter
pushes for a large enough quota to keep
the industry going. Here in a nutshell is the
history of the IWC.

Commercial extinction

Scientists employed by the whaling in-
dustry like to state: “There has been no
species of large whale driven to extinction

 

Contrary to assertions that whale-
meat is an “indispensable part of
the Japanese diet,” annual per
capita consumptiOn is only a
meager 700 grams (under 2 lbs).

 

by whaling.” But what they have been
driven to is commercial extinction as
distinct from biological extinction. And
once this occurs, restoration takes at least
20 to 30 years and sometimes (as in the
case of the California grey whale) 50 to
100 years.

Scientists engaged in the study of en—
dangered species have submitted a new
standard to prevent extinctions. They say:
Industries based on the slaughter of wild-
life, when confronted by data suggesting
that the species concerned is facing extinc—
tion, should cease all further killing until the
facts are clarified—even if the data are frag-
mentary and causality cannot be proved.
By this criterion a total ban on commercial
whaling, as Europe and America advocate,
is justified.

NB. All insets in bold type are taken from an article in
Asahi Evening News, 13 March 1982.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Summer 1982

 

COMMERCIAL WHALING

BANNED

IWC Votes 25 to 7 to Stop Killing Whales Within 3 Years

At the biggest meeting yet held by the International Whaling Commission, July
19—24 in Brighton, England, the 39 member nations approved a carefully worded
resolution of the Seychelles to move all catch limits for the killing of whales for
commercial purposes to zero by the 1985—86 season. Seconded by Sweden, St.
Lucia, Australia, New Zealand and Oman, the motion, strongly opposed though
it was by Japan, Norway, Iceland, Peru, Brazil, the USSR, and Korea, won 25

“yes” votes. Five nations abstained.
Representatives of international
groups attending the meeting greeted
the unexpectedly large vote with
vociferous enthusiasm. The result of
an eleven-year—long campaign that
began with Congressional resolutions
calling for a 10-year moratorium on
commercial whaling and embraced
confrontations with whalers on the
high seas, exposes of pirate whaling, a
variety of demonstrations and persist-
ent worldwide lobbying, the IWC deci-
sion was the culmination of a struggle

which involved increasing numbers of
conservation and humane groups

throughout the world. The most

sweeping victory that any group of
animals has won internationally, it
presages further inter-group efforts for

YR 110 {65113113 111165110 canto Ci} El mar

Ii gos EXTINGUIMQS n

 

 

Although Tokyo newspapers
reacted strongly to the 25—7 vote, call-
ing on the government to file an objec-
tion to the IWC decision, the matter is

under consideration with differing
presages further inter-group efforts for

other animals in need of protection
from cruelty and from the threat of
exﬁncﬁon.

The work for whales is not yet done,
however. The whaling nations fought
hard for quotas for the coming year
and succeeded in obtaining a total of
12,371 whales for 1982/83, including
10,867 Minke Whales. 711 Brydes,
100 Sei, 293 Fin, and 400 Sperm
Whales. These quotas, down only
about 2,500 from this year, must be
greatly reduced next year as the
phase-out moves to completion.

 

 

 

 

Spanish Save the Whales poster features
Guernica.

VOTE 0N WHALING MORATORIUM

For (25) Sweden
United Kingdom
tl
2:931?“ United States of America
Australia Uruguay
genie Ri Against (7)
osta ca
Denmark Brazil d
Egypt lcelan
France $23.3;
Germany, FR. Peru y
lzedrlga South Korea
Mexico U.S.S.R.
Monaco Abstain (5)
Netherlands Chile
New Zealand China
3min i Philippines
t- “C a South Africa
StéVinc‘elnt and the Switzerland
rena nes
Senegal Absent (2)
Seychelles Dominica
Spain Jamaica

 

 

 

views reportedly held by different
major departments of government.

A prime consideration for Japan is
the possible loss of access to the US.
200-mile fishery zone if it fails to honor
IWC decisions. The United States
holds two powerful economic “sticks”:
the Packwood-Magnuson Amend-
ment to the Fishery Conservation and
Management Act and the Pelly
Amendment to the Fisherman’s Pro-
tective Act. The Packwood-Magnuson
Amendment provides for the
automatic reduction of 50% of the
fishing allocations in the US. 200-mile
zone of those countries which are cer‘
tified by the Secretary of Commerce as
acting in violation of whale conserva-
tion programs. If defiance of IWC
decisions continues, fishing is
automatically terminated altogether.
The Japanese fishing industry, which
took $425,572,000 worth of fish from
our 200-mile zone in 1981, is par-
ticularly vulnerable to this law.

The Pelly Amendment is discre-
tionary. If a country acts “to diminish
the effectiveness of an international
fishery conservation program,” such
as the IWC, and is so certified by the
Secretary of Commerce, the President
of the United States may “prohibit. . .
importation into the United States of
fish products of the offending country
for such duration as he considers
appropriate.” The importance of the
US. market to these whaling nations
is demonstrated by the following:
Japan exported $321,662,000 worth
of fish products to the United States in
1981. In the same year Iceland, Brazil,
Korea, Norway, and Peru exported
$176,000,000; $105,336,000;
$91,659,000; $70,800,000; and
$30,648,000 respectively. ‘

 




 

 

Stop Whaling, Peace to the Whales
is the message which balloon whale
FLO and her guardian Peter Millington
took to Spain immediately after the
1981 IWC Conference. Surfacing in
all sorts of different spots, the tireless
pair, accompanied at times by FLO’s
offspring LITTLE FLO, kept cam—
paigning throughout the winter and
spring, attracting plaudits in plenty
from the press and a warm welcome
from tens of thousands of Spaniards
who formerly supported, or else knew
nothing about, their country’s whaling
activities.

    

Indeed FLO can claim to have influ-
enced the crucial Parliamentary debate
which ended with a decisive vote in
favor of ending Spanish whaling forth-
with.

 

Fall 1982

 

 

Dear Mr. Sakurauchi,

often.

 

HONGKONG BORNEO SHIPPING C0., LTD

I am a Merchant Mariner and of the total sailing experience of 6 years I have spotted
the Great Whale only twice and that too in the Indian Ocean only (Once near the Sri
Lankan Coast and the Second time near the Seychelles Islands).

Of the Past two years that I’ve been on the Japanese Coast and the Eastern and
South China Seas, I’ve yet to sight a Single Specimen. To a Mariner it’s a Feast for the
Eyes to see a Whale Blowing in the Otherwise Empty Expanse of our beautiful
Oceans—Our Home. So Stop and think! Wouldn’t you let us have these feasts more

Matsunaga (A Japanese Port)
13-10-82

Yours Pleadingly

Mohan Singh Chabba

Ilnd Officer, M. V. MUI KIM
HongKong Borneo Shipping Co.
815, International Bldg.

Des Voeux Rd. C.

Hong Kong

 

 

Peter Millington

Peter Millington

 

Japan, Norway, the

USSR and Peru
Reject Whaling Ban

The traditional consensus of the
Japanese government was broken
when a meeting of ministers in the
lame duck Suzuki government de-
cided to file an objection to the Inter-
national Whaling Commission’s
25-7 vote to end commercial whal-
ing by 1986. The Minister for the En-
vironment spoke against the deci-
sion, and a Gallup Poll showed the
large majority of Japanese opposed
to the filing.

In off-the-record negotiations be—
tween the United States government
and the Suzuki government, Japan
was offered favorable treatment in
fish allocations if no objection were
filed; but in announcing the decision
to file, no mention was made of this
promised U.S. assistance. A leading
feature of the official press release
was the false statement that an objec—
tion had to be filed by November 4th.
The Japanese government was well
aware that this is not the case,
because Peru filed in October. Under
the terms of the Treaty, if any nation
files an objection, all other nations
have 90 additional days to make
their decisions as to whether or not
they, too, will take similar action.
Observers believe that the Suzuki
government’s strong ties to the whal-
ing industry explains the decision to
object.

Peru, whose whaling industry is
controlled by a Japanese whaling
company, was the first to object,
allegedly by Japanese request. Nor-
way filed within hours of Japan’s
filing. Chile also filed a more limited
objection relating to a former quota
which it claims should still be allowed
to be filled. The other major whaling
nations, South Korea, Brazil and
Iceland, have made no announce-
ment, and it is hoped that they will
accept the decision of the Inter-
national Whaling Commission.

*3;




 

 

’RlCnifeb $fafez rE'Jercafe

COMMITTEE ON COM MERCE. SCIENCE.
AND TRANSPORTATION

The Honorable Malcolm Baldrige
Secretary of Commerce
Department of Commerce
Washington, DC. 20230

Dear Secretary Baldrige:

We wish to extend our congratula-
tions to you and to Dr. Byrne and the
US. delegation for achieving a 3/4 ma-
jority vote in the International Whaling
Commission for a cessation of commer-
cial whaling to take effect in 1986.

It has been eleven years since the
US. Senate and House passed resolu-
tions calling for the US. to negotiate a
ten-year moratorium on commercial
whaling, and ten years since a similar
resolution offered by the US. was
adopted by the United Nations Con-
ference on the Human Environment. In
the intervening period the effort to pro-
tect the great whales has become a ver-
itable crusade. Last month’s victory in
the IWC is a source of gratification for
many millions of citizens who actively
participated in that crusade, both in the
United States and around the world.

Our key concern, which we are
certain you share, is to insure that this
epochal decision by the IWC is honored
by the whaling nations. The United
States must, during the coming period,
undertake every diplomatic means open
to it to prevent the whaling nations from
ﬁling objections to the moratorium deci-
sion.

The Pelly Amendment to the
Fishermen’s Protective Act and the
Packwood-Magnuson Amendment to

August 31, 1982

nations from subverting the IWC by
means of objections, or through leaving
the Commission. In order to avoid any
thought that the US. can be “faced
down” on the whaling issue, we should
make it absolutely clear now that the
United States will invoke these amend-
ments against any nation violating IWC
decisions.

In addition to a clear statement on
the Pelly and Packwood Amendments,
we should assure the whaling nations
that other means available to‘ us to rein-
force the IWC will not be ignored. For
example, the allocation process within
FCMA provides ample discretion to ad-
just allocations (either up or down) in
response to a wide spectrum of US.
objectives and concerns. This means of
lending substance to US. policy on
whaling should certainly be considered.
GIFA’s under FCMA are, of course,
another area subject to review by the
Congress.

If we succeed in preventing objec-
tions against the IWC cessation deci-
sion, we will avoid a period of tension
and uncertainty in our relations with
whaling nations with respect to fisheries.
If no objections are filed, there is no
need to fear the possible future use of
sanctions to enforce IWC decisions.
This will permit U.S. fishermen and
processors to conclude fishing
agreements which promote the interests
of the majority of citizens, including
fishermen in both non-whaling and
whaling countries. If the IWC decision is
accepted, all will benefit.

 

 

Japanese
people against
the objection

A Gallup poll completed in October
shows that more than three quarters of the
Japanese people disagree with the deci-
sion of the Suzuki Government to file an
objection to the IWC vote to ban commer-
cial whaling by 1986.

Nippon Research Center Ltd., the
Japanese section of the well-known polling
organization, questioned 2000 people in
different geographical locations in Japan,
covering different age groups and
economic levels. They found that
although 90% had eaten whale meat, it
was far from being a dietary staple—only
3% said they ate it as often as once a
week, for example.

When asked whether they agreed or
disagreed with the IWC decision, only
19% disagreed, whereas 46% agreed and
34% had never heard about it.

On the subsequent question as to what
approach Japan should take, 76% said
the IWC decision should be accepted.
Mainichi News headlined this result which
caught the lame duck Suzuki Government
in an awkward position as it continued to
insist it was filing an objection at the in-
sistence of the Japanese people.

It is hoped that when the new govem-
ment is formed in December, the objection
will be rescinded.

 

 

the Fishery Conservation and Manage-
ment Act represent the best and most "
credible deterrents available to prevent

 

*ILFJ‘E‘Imz/aﬂ‘lo‘CL‘iTo

OP

Son 8. GOLDWATER
Son 0. INOUVE

Son 5. MATSUNAGA
Sen R. STAFFORD

Sen D. PRYOR

Sen W. HUDDLESTON'
Sen D. De'OONCINI

’ifuihb Wes M

warm “I ”In”. m
AD AW

 

 

Wm 9.6. “I.

IISIZ¥UB3IE
vital.- 13—19 I“) vyiﬁl'i'l
Source: Bureau of International Wha‘unq Statistics ‘

321

3?
O
O
.0
<0
.93
m
E
3 161
U)
a)
.C
2
«I
U
E
‘33

_' V L,“ Fin Iwcmwt. Isasfmtmmmlnﬁmuu L. 903: mm Sen H. JACKSON
. sums an: Lf::tt. um saw—mt. *mttasm: 5: Son A.cnmsToN
I ‘ ‘ WITH-Ant :3 32212112 Sen c PERCY
. . Iiiﬁi. *ﬂIXLTimmI-t. iiilImMHl-t-va'n'ta» ' - ' Sm E: "Dumas
' Sen w. ROTH

i Sen A. SIMPSON

I Sen 1. COCIIRAN Sen A. DIXON

I Sen D. MOYNIHAN Sen S. GORTON

, Sen D. DURENBERGER Sen H.5CHMITT
Sen J. RANDOLPH
Sen c. LEVIN

Sen I. HEINZ

Sen G. HART

Sen H.CANNON
Sen L. PRESSLER
Sen 1. WARNER
Sen J. ABDNOR

Sen 3. KASTEN

. In. *mxtzxotﬁmoiklt'ﬁﬂaniLf:. mm. A:

~ ‘. Rosina. xoxxucnmuma manual-manner.-

I " . . . #ﬂutv‘tﬁwmﬁﬁﬁuviIﬁﬁzceor. ﬁBOIWCIlkanﬂ
" ’ Sen/Bryce 3

Blue '

ukg’xIUL’ottuiiLtﬁ.
enounoezcx. Iwcmzoinmrvezmm'ewss
b-tvsztft. stab/L. tnennwstuﬁcn mammal:
untimoazlmuvmltaﬁmwatﬁizakﬁubsnahi
#aeeremumztut
anlwﬁhaﬁmwcuemttuzu. unanimizun
«9-4:meneaenwuemzmvwmw - wavy/KI
:a'ﬁLMII‘JLSbtu-r. alMlullLt. *lotmzmzto‘
f:60!:t#iaﬁt'ffa~15t:. Iwcmikiiﬂﬂltzmet. *3
n'swxmimﬁmxenﬁrs:twazmemznmﬁ. .
Iwcmzemaaerxvnmzix. 4‘)-—. Awwwiulmm
it. meannezumeu:Let-nactznzcweﬁ. 1:
till. ﬁftiﬁl‘l‘liﬁﬁohﬁubkot *mnrumzrscr
illiﬂui. HITbltb'H‘an‘U-‘i‘f. *ﬂennmmznnn
itlﬂs‘rbtmz. :5Lf:¥&titLrbsiitlboi-r. Mr!
ﬁliaﬂTmﬂliﬁﬁIi L i ms area < Tnounnﬁ.
BL. Iwconnnmazcmnﬁmu-Ms: mama in
it! LtﬂlﬁtmnfllPxﬁklﬂem< ment an em»
an. Iiﬂoain'frmul. lwcaztiﬁﬁeumoutﬁl
Hafiz-tart. :tuztor. illﬁ. #nnnnxonaeeux
510mm: tntﬂﬁwbnﬁliwxﬂonlﬂtuxvermin
seuzesrus. lWC‘DikZ?iUAtt67iM. bewamio
{Hi Licwofto-s.

Sen w. RUDMAN
Sen J. CHAFEE '

Sen L. WEICKER. JR.
SenIC. FELL

Sen J.BIDI-:N.IR.
Sen c. DODD

Sen B. BRADLEY
Sen H. METZENBAUM Sen L CHILI-ZS

Sen R. DOLE

Sen J. axon

Sen C. MATT-HAS, JR.

Sen P. HAWKINS
Sen A. D’AMATO
Sen R. BOSCHWITZ Sen M. WALLOP
Set .I. STENNIS Sen 5. SYMMS Sen 1. DANFORTH

7; I) tenﬁiﬁllozﬁo:ﬂtﬁt 5 runway: It; L a L I:

Iaazlﬁ7nua.mléltzslmlt Isasﬁn-smirwm-r
a; t NAIL i LL'. Lap-L. atwm. Emittmm
my: 6 l i ain't-F L511 6 : I; fit‘hf‘t.

 

Minke

 

IIII'LSITILKWDIII: .sxomu Uzﬁﬁilhm : tlzlxbi't
:omutru. atomw x—v'tregfxsm-w. atom

mzmrx: 'IIENIL‘ 6 l '5 anew nip!) 9 1th. um. 3k

mozmuuz L 1:57.031“: .t o 1: s In Gib-1’1.

oznu. crnvmﬂkrzwv-ouWIT-{yz-i-ﬁa— Ib‘ﬂLhﬁﬁEﬁ‘t‘t

ttqvvltl/vavwnrz 7:: 9133052 at.

7:7» - 020037 - 4719413- f/'7~‘/'/ r 70.010007 *-

 

 

" ' T 1 I T r T 1
1910 mo I930 1960 i950 1960 I970 I900 lttoVVIlﬂii. Anzllzmsmmmeai::Ir~->-'zezunn
latelnﬂtlm: umznlantvuttﬂﬂﬁrt

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Graph from Whale: and Whaling by the Australian Government
Publishing Service

World Catches of Whales

 

 

Copy of an advertisement in the Japanese press giving a translation of the full text of
letter signed by 66 Senators. (Full text of the letter in English, page 3.)

 




 

Richard Ellis

 

Japan warned about whaling stance

TOKYO (AP) -- Oregon Sen. Bob Packwood
warned Japan's foreign minister yesterday that
Japan's resistance to a worldwide whaling ban is
fuelin U.S. protectionist sentiments, Foreign Minis-
try ofﬁcials said.

Packwood, who chairs the inﬂuential Senate
Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee,
told Foreign Minister Yoshio Sakurauchi that Japan‘s
pro-whaling stance has also aroused anti-whaling
sentiment in the United States.

Japan recently filed a formal objection to a vote
by members of the International Whaling Commissron
to ban commercial whaling alter 1986. Japan claims
whale stocks are sufficient to allow certainty/pa of
commercial whaling to continue while scientific
research goes on.

Packwood, a EOyear-old Republican, arrived here
from China Thursday afternoon with a Port of
Portland trade group. He told Sakurauchi that
Japan's whaling objection may have mcreased
chances that the U.S. Congress will pass domestic
content legislation. _

Such legislation would require foreign automakers
selling more than 100,000 cars in the United States to
produce a Specific proportion of their U.S..sold cars at
U.S. plants. . .

Packwood opposes domestic content legislation.

Packwood also met the minister of agriculture,
forestry, and fisheries, Kichiro Tamwa. Tazawa
asked that the United States not reduce Japans
fishing quotas in U.S. waters in retaliation against

Japan‘s whaling stance. Seattle Times 13 November 1982

 

 

 

 

 

 

Winter 1982/ 83

 

Whale demonstrators greet Nakasone

Prime Minister Nakasone of Japan was
greeted outside the White House on 18
January by three 30-foot blue and white

UAV JANUARY l8 ‘983~USA YOOAV

 

The American People Appeal to
Prime Minister Nakasone of Japan

WITHDBAW OBJEGTIOII m

  
 
 

U.S. Threatens Reduction in Japan’s
$400 Million Fishing in American Waters
— ,7”? m

VIM. Houn- Ito-tho may at obpctm‘ m as me Inqolllml in. Inocral Im

mu Japan 5 m puma mmslou Vm Nua-

 

sone . um
Reagan he locus l C'I'lcu choice mlnarow Japan’s
volad overwhelmingly hy the Imam-hood What-no ' U S NKDIW to noon like Willidd Although
u- an. m. , “ mom cut back
no valuable lush metal-on: m the U S 200ml. Juli huh-no mm. M! Suzw 1900'!le lotto:
10" mwmmauswmmvunwum
W Nuusom‘s amen-or M Suzuki. lat No- c‘m ﬂ W

molWCban mes “M“

Mr Suzuki known as ”My Fan" mm pom-cunt DIM tor-u mull J

wuoimcmtmtoimhuymlmm.Ioohmonc- rammed rueot thmmmw ZO'uyzstoyroma-mdm
1

huemmlmmocmmudmtbnwum mum

mi .3249..-
cmonJmhpot‘“ ' _ m

wwwm-m,mw ‘ Comm myﬂngn.
MMMWW.WWMW $5,016.. 9‘ on '
WWW.W.DCN7

mssunmzomqn mi-mmmmom

in: nut oi ll loan has Ii- mpw pltﬂl oi the warm males (above) le'm
mi in me Me mils! Ruchaio Eli-s

I
The Arum! My. Insulin. Ms moo we: ‘96!
“mm Io prov-n: moi sunning mo in. EIU‘OVIIU‘ 0 en
' Woo Iona-as Auoioursupooncamhan con

h C m 9m 0.91 at sun Oiluce m Chum Roots
union. M NV ‘22:!

whale balloons and by demonstrators car-
rying signs calling on him to withdraw
Japan’s objection to the whaling ban voted
last year by the IWC. The colorful demon-
stration was featured on the major tv net-
works that evening.

The appeal was repeated nationwide by
AWI in a full-page advertisement (see
below) in USA Today, the new daily
newspaper. We asked readers to telephone
their nearest Japanese consulate to convey
their opposition to Japan’s continued kill—
ing of the whales. We now repeat the re-
quest. Here are the locations and phone
numbers.

Washington DC (202) 234-2266
Houston (713) 652-2977
Portland (503) 221-1811
San Francisco (415) 921-8000
Los Angeles (213) 624-8305
Anchorage (907) 279-8428
New Orleans (504) 529-2101
Atlanta (404) 892-2700
Seattle (206) 682-9107
Honolulu (808) 536-2226
Chicago (312) 280-0400
Kansas City (212) 986-1600
Boston (617) 973-9772
New York (212) 986-1600

Exploring the value
of live whales

At the annual meeting of the International
Whaling Commission last summer it was
agreed that 1983 would see a Global Con-
ference on the Non-Consumptive Utiliza-
tion of Cetacean Resources. High on the
list of these “non-consumptive” uses is
tourism. The proposal, introduced by the
United States, was strongly supported by
the Seychelles which offered to host such a
meeting and to contribute $10,000. Co—
sponsors are the Connecticut Cetacean
Society, the World Wildlife Fund, IUCN,
the IWC and the Animal Welfare Institute.

Dates have now been fixed. A prepar-
atory meeting will be held in the Seychelles
on 3-6 May, followed by the main meeting
in Boston, Massachusetts, on 7-12 June.
To ensure that all member nations of the
IWC can send at least one participant to the
Boston meeting, the Connecticut Cetacean
Society has secured a pledge of $50,000 to
assist with travel expenses. Further in-
formation from: Whales Alive Conference,
c/o Dr. Robbins Barstow, PO Box 9145,
Wethersﬁeld, CT 06109.

  




Japan, swallow hard and stop whaling
by John B. Oakes, former Senior Editor of The New York Times

When Japan’s new Prime Minister,
Yasuhiro Nakasone, visits Capitol Hill to-
day, he will be forcefully reminded how
heavily his country’s economy, as well as
its image, is being damaged by its senseless
war of extermination against the whales.

One reason Mr. Nakasone is in Wash-
ington is to ward off growing American
protectionism against imports from Japan.
Yet there is a simple action he alone can
take to save Japan’s vitally important
fishing industry from cripplng blows from
the United States that otherwise will be in-
evitable.

That action is to annul former Prime
Minister Zenko Suzuki’s decision to reject
the five-year moratorium on all commercial
whaling that the International Whaling
Commission approved last summer, by a
vote of 25 to 7. The ban is to take effect
late in 1985.

This vote reflected rising worldwide con-
cern over the virtual extinction of several
whale species and the extreme depletion—
threatening their survival—of all the rest,
because of overhunting (often illegal and
always unimaginably cruel) by a handful of
nations led by Japan. Tokyo’s subsidized
support of a dying industry serves no
legitimate purpose, for there is a cheaper,
readily available substitute for every whale
product.

How real will be the penalties to Japan if
Mr. Nakasone sticks to the obdurate posi—
tion taken by his predecessor, who is wide-
ly suspected of a corrupt sellout to
Japanese whaling interests? The answer is
that the penalties are very real and the
threat to apply them is very serious.

Two-thirds of the members of the Senate
and more than 60 members of the House

ICELAND 29 TO 28 FOR THE

The Icelandic Parliament voted on 2
February by a cliff-hanging 29-28 mar-
gin to override their government’s de-
cision to object to the International
Whaling Commission’s moratorium on
commercial whaling.

For sheer excitement, it would be
hard to beat the televised voice vote as
each member was tallied individually.
The ballotting followed a Foreign Rela-
tions Committee move to reverse
determination to object. One of the

most telling arguments was presented ‘

by Halldor Asgrimsson, M.P., who

already have demanded that it be made
“absolutely clear” to Japan that sanctions
will be imposed if commercial whaling con-
tinues after the date set by the IWC. The
State Department even promises to take
action “beginning this spring,” when the
next allocation of the amount of fish to be
taken by the Japanese in United States
waters (their principal source of supply) will
be made. If Japan persists in saying that it
will ignore the IWC prohibition against
whaling, the United States can—and un-
doubtedly will—drastically reduce the
allowable take.

Next spring is only the starting point.
Unless the Japanese stop killing whales by
1986 (they legally took 5,000 last year and
were directly or indirectly responsible for
most of 1982’s total legal slaughter of
14,000) their allowable fish catch in United
States waters will be automatically reduced
by at least 50 percent. They also may, and
probably will, lose the right to export fish to
the United States. On economic grounds
alone, it makes no sense for Japan or any-
one else to support the whaling industry at
such terrible cost.

Japan’s harvest of fish from American
waters amounted to $425 million in 1981
—nearly 10 times the value of its dimin-
ishing whale catch. In 1981, Japan ex-
ported more than $320 million in frozen
fish to the United States. If whaling con-
tinues, Japan will see both figures reduced
to zero.

The Soviet Union, cynical as usual, also
announced defiance of the International
Whaling Commission ban. The Russians,
like almost everyone else, sell nearly all of
their whale catch (4000 last year) to Japan.
It is generally believed that if the Japanese

said that Iceland has always been a
party to international agreements such
as “Law of the Sea”. He pointed out
that it is dangerous to begin backing
and filling on any international
agreements that Iceland might not
agree with on an individual, na-
tionalistic basis. His well-argued pre-
sentation was, undoubtedly, a strong
force in bringing stalwart Iceland into
line with today’s awareness of the im-
portance ‘of preserving whale popula-
tions.

Further good news is that Brazil and

 

 

as the lead country give up commercial
whaling, the Soviet Union and most of the
others will quickly follow suit.

The Japanese have consistently twisted
arms in the crudest way among both whal-
ing and nonwhaling nations to support
their position. They tied a $400 million
agricultural investment program to Brazil’s
vote at the IWC. They own Peru’s one
whaling station, and have just granted a $4
billion credit to South Korea. Brazil, Peru
and South Korea, along with the Soviet
Union, Norway and Iceland were the only
countries to vote with Japan against the
moratorium.

The Japanese need whale meat neither
to supplement their diet nor to strengthen
their economy. Whale meat provides less
than one percent of Japan’s protein con-
sumption. Most of the nation’s whale meat
goes to captive consumers in uniform, in-
cluding schoolchildren, members of the de-
fense forces and convicted prisoners. Ac-
cording to Craig Van Note, an authority on
whale protection and executive secretary of
Monitor, a Washington consortium of en-
vironmental organizations, Japan’s whaling
industry employs fewer than 1,000 per—
sons on smp and shore.

To the ordinary Japanese, whaling
doesn’t seem to be quite the crucial issue its
politically powerful proponents have built it
up to be. In the most recent Gallup Poll,
taken in October, the question was asked

whether Japan should object to the Interna-
tional Whaling Commission's moratorium

and continue whaling, or “accept the deci-
sion.” The vote was 17% in favor of the first
alternative. It was 76% in favor of the
second.

©1982/83 by the New York Times Company.
Reprinted by permission.

WHALES

South Korea have announced that
they, too, will abide by the IWC deci-
sion.

The splitting of the whaling bloc on
the most fundamental of all issues —
the continuation of commercial whal-
ing — is certain to have a demoralizing
effect on the “fearsome foursome”
(Japan, and its three co-objectors
USSR, Norway, and Peru) as they
face mounting pressure from conser-
vationists to abide by the IWC ruling.
Hurrah for Iceland! And Brazil! And
South Korea!

 

Richard Ellis

11

 

 

 




 

 

 

12

 

 

Spring 1983

 

CITES: three proposals on whales

The following article is based on informa-
tion which AWI requested from the
eminent whale scientist. Sidney Holt, in or-
der to clarify certain proposals on whales
that will be put to the CITES nations meet-
ing in Botswana on 19-30 April.

 

At a meeting in Nairobi last November,
African members of CITES who attended
gave unanimous backing to three Appen-
dix I proposals on whales which will now
be put to all CITES parties in Botswana.
The proposals require the immediate listing
of the Bryde’s whale and two genera of
beaked whale, and the listing by 1 January
1986 (when commercial whaling is due to
cease) of all whales that come under the
aegis of the IWC.

Because the Bryde’s and the
minke are now the only baleen
whales for which the IWC permits
a catch, trading pressure could
become severe.

In the case of the Bryde’s whale the IWC
permits hunting of only three coastal
“stocks”, one off Peru and the other two in
the North Pacific. In other regions zero
quotas have been set on the grounds that
the populations are unknown. The North
Pacific catch is sizeable (over 500 annually)
and is not based on scientific assessment of
the stock. However international trade is
not involved. The Peruvian stock is a very
small one and the permitted catch cannot
be scientifically justified. The catch in this
case is internationally traded -— it is all sold
to Japan for meat.

But the rationale for Appendix I listing of
the Bryde’s is not solely to stop trade in this
one stock. Without such a listing pirate
whalers operating outside the IWC would
find it considerably easier to market illicitly
taken Bryde’s whales.

There is the further point that at the last
CITES conference (New Delhi, 1981) the
sei, fin and sperm whale were all given Ap-

pendix I listing. The case for the Bryde’s
whale is no less strong. Indeed it is, if any-

thing, stronger. For while there is uncer-
tainty about the status of all four species,
the one Bryde’s stock that is internationally
traded is known to be depleted to the point
of being endangered. And because the
Bryde’s and the minke are now the only

The one Bryde’s stock that is in-
ternationally traded is known to
be depleted to the point of being
endangered.

 

 

 

baleen whales for which the IWC permits a
catch, trading pressure could become se-
vere -— especially as trade statistics make
no distinction between different types of
baleen meat.

Amongsr beaked whales there are
(probably) four species of bottlenose
whale. Their oil closely resembles sperm oil
and their meat can be used for animal feed
and specialized human consumption. And

being larger than the minke. each individ-
ual animal is of considerable value. Al-

though they are not internationally traded,
the potential to renew trade is clearly there
-— particularly now that the sperm whale is
protected by CITES and IWC.

A third proposal seeks Appendix 1
listing for all IWC-regulated spe-
cies as from 1 January 1986.
These species may not thereafter
be hunted; clearly they should not
thereafter be traded.

 

 

The only bottlenose IWC regulates is the
North Atlantic species. It is depleted and its
catch limit is zero. In the southern hemi-
sphere, however, are two rare species of
bottlenose which are vulnerable to inciden—
tal catching while pelagic whaling in the
Antarctic continues. Such catching would
involve “introduction from the sea” and
hence, technically, international trade be-
cause it would be in localities outside na—
tional maritime jurisdictions. Given their

rarity -— and their trading value —— they
should certainly be protected.

The fourth and largest bottlenose species
is the Baird’s beaked whale of the North
Pacific. For the most part it is an oceanic
animal living outside national jurisdictions.
It is caught in Japanese waters for local
consumption. The applicability of IWC
rules to taking it on the high seas is ambig-
uous. Its status and distribution are also un-
clear; some scientists believe it is greatly
depleted. Catches are now much smaller
than they once were. Past catching was en-
tirely unregulated; present local catching is
said recently to have been brought under
domestic law.

Appendix I listing of the bottlenoses
would discourage the development of

trade in a closel related group of whales,
three of whose our species (two of them

rare) are not covered by IWC regulations.

 

Bryde's whale

The two proposals discussed so far seek
an immediate embargo (via Appendix I list-
ing) on international trade. A third Dro-
posal seeks similar treatment for all IWC-
regulated species as from 1 January 1986.
These species may not thereafter be hunt-
ed; clearly they should not thereafter be
traded. And dealing with this issue now
rather than postponing it to the CITES
meeting in 1985 will serve to give due no
tice that trade should be wound down dur- .
ing the period in which the hunt itself is be-
ing phased out.

A further reason for CITES acting now
rather than waiting till 1985 is that notice
would thereby be given to any “pirates”
that may be contemplating whaling for
IWC-regulated species after IWC members
stop that they would not be able to sell the
products to CITES parties. This could be
useful in impeding a resurgence of pirate
whaling.

Assuming the two proposals already dis-
cussed are adopted, this third proposal re-

fers essentiallu to the minke. Unlike the
traded stock of Bryde’s whale (and unlike

the three whales listed by CITES in 1981)
the minke is not known to be dangerously
depleted. In fact the status of all minke
stocks is completely uncertain. It would
therefore be difficult to justify its immediate
listing. Nevertheless all minke stocks are
under very heavy pressure of commercial
exploitation to meet the demand for baleen
meat for international trade, which is no
longer fulfilled by catching of the larger
species, and by the arbitrary catch limits
which simply reflect the sizes of earlier
catches.

In 1982 some recent myths about minke
whales were laid aside by the IWC Scien-
tific Committee. The most pervasive of
these, and the one with most consequence
for discussion of conservation needs, was
that the minke whale had been for decades
increasing in the southern hemisphere, as
a result of the reduction in numbers of oth-

er baleen whale species and hence a great-
er availability of krill, the dietary item com-

mon to all of them. This plausible hypothe-
sis was not sustained by the Committee

Drawing by Richard Ellis

.25.

g,




K,

 

which could find no hard evidence for it.
There is thus no assurance whatever that
whaling is having no adverse effects on
minke populations. Hence the whaling
moratorium agreed to by the lWC. In these
circumstances the minke merits full no-
trading protection once it is fully protected
from hunting.

Aside from the technical arguments in
support of these three proposals, the rul-
ings of CITES should, so far as possible, be
consistent both with its own previous rul-
ings (in this case the 1981 listing of sei, fin
and sperm whales) and with the rulings of
the lWC. Not to ban the minke from inter-
national trade in 1986 would be inconsis-
tent with the [WC moratorium on whaling
which comes into effect then. For CITES to
withhold protection from the oil-giving bot-
tlenose would be inconsistent with its own
previous ruling on the sperm whale.

The Bryde’s proposal is slightly more
complicated. If here there is a clash be-
tween being consistent with the lWC
(which permits a catch that is international-
ly traded) and being consistent with CITES
(which in 1981 banned trading in three
whale species which at that time were still
being caught and traded under IWC regu-
lations), then the argument which carried

the day in 1981 should again prevail. Then
the Appendix 1 listing was approved on the

grounds that the catch limits being set by
the [WC were inconsistent with the scientif—
ic advice provided. The same is true of the
Bryde’s whale today; the Peruvian quota is
entirely arbitrary.

in the particular case of the Bryde’s there
is a specific principle at stake. But there is a
more general principle underlying all these
proposals. lnevitably with marine creatures
uncertainties abound. Whales, unlike land
animals, cannot be counted and even the
most sophisticated models based on catch

data and the like give at best only crude ap-

proximations to the answers which the
whale scientists are seeking. The Berne
Criteria offer guidance to CITES parties to
assist them in reaching a reasoned judg-
ment. The criteria rightly point to popula-
tion status as being a key factor. But they
offer no guidance where reasonable cer-
tainty on this score cannot, in the nature of
things, be achieved. We have a particular
problem with whales, because when they

are depleted by the setting of too “opti-
mistic” catch limits, the mistake takes a
long time to correct owing to their very
slow rates of reproduction. In the mean-
time they are especially vulnerable.

It was surely never intended by parties,
in adopting the Berne Criteria, that the cri-
teria would be used to legitimize continued
international trade in products of species
that are evidently threatened, merely be-
cause the scientific data are incomplete or
because not all scientists are agreed on the
precise degree of threat involved.

Only recently have the scientists en-
gaged in whale assessments realized just
how big are the problems they confront. At
the same time we see the pressure of inter-
national markets being concentrated on
fewer species (as the larger whale species
have been successfully depleted) and this
pressure is manifest through the operation
of whaling ﬂeets that were built to exploit

much larger stocks. While it is true that
these ﬂeets have been reduced substantial-
ly in the past decade, it is also true that the
two pelagic that now catch minke whales
would never have been constructed if it
were only for that minor purpose.

Given the continued pressure on whale
populations and the increasing doubts of
scientists as to whether these populations
can sustain the catch levels that the market
demands and that non-scientific catch lim-
its still permit, the case for protection is a
strong one. And insofar as doubt persists,
the guiding principle must surely be (as it
was in New Delhi in 1981) to give the spe-

cies the benefit of the doubt. it is failure to
observe this principle which has led to the

destruction of the great whales in the past.
Note: Of the three whale proposals dis-
cussed above, the one on the Bryde’s
whale is being put forward by the govern-
ment of Ecuador and the other two by the
government of the Seychelles.

 

 

 

 

Those long winter evenings will be here
before you know it. You might consider
turning off your television set and settling
down with “Humpback Whales”, A Cata-
logue of Individuals Identified by Fluke
Photographs. The individuals are, I hasten
to add, whales, and there are 108 pages of
photographs of flukes (with 10 photo-

graphs to a page) for you to study, restudy
and identify. There is an index at the back
for you to either check your scores or just
peek a little. This is the second edition (I’m

just getting round to it) and is published by

the College of the Atlantic, Bar Harbor,
ME 04609. The price is $10.00.

For sheer professionalism, it would be
hard to beat, or even match, The National
Fisherman, a monthly (semi-monthly in

a
Minke whale 3
Periodical pleasures by John Gleiber

April) magazine published by Journal Pub—
lications of 21 Elm Street, Camden, ME
04843 at $1.50 per copy. It is invaluable
for the clear picture it presents as to just
what is going on in the fishing industry
today. For example, it kept us current on
the ways the tuna industry coped with
regulations regarding seining and showed
that the industry, far from collapsing into
economic ruin, as their spokesmen direly
predicted, actually flourished.

The Orion Nature Book Review of which
we wrote so glowingly such a short time
ago ceased publication with the October
issue. Associate Editor Aina Niemela (a
name to turn the hair of a copy editor
snow white) writes “Costs do not permit
us to continue the publication.” Alas!

 

 

13

 

 




 

Right for hunting

Slow, easy to kill and ﬂoats when dead—in
other words the “right” whale for hunting.
That’s how the right whale Balaena glacialis
came by its English name. And how abomi-
nably right the hunters were; all three
species of right whale are now endangered.
But the most endangered of all—indeed
the most endangered of all whales—is the
northern right whale. Its total population,
now almost entirely confined to the North
Atlantic, is believed to be no more than
150.

At 60 feet in length and 50 tons in

weight the northern right whale is the third
largest species of whale, ranking behind
only the blue and the fin. And that almost
exhausts the hard data we have on this
whale. However a marine biologist,
Dorothy Spero, is now trying to fill this gap
in our knowledge. Affiliated to Princeton
University and operating from West Quod-
dy Marine Research Station in the Bay of
Fundy, Miss Spero is concentrating on the
whale’s methods of communication. Ba-
leen whales rely heavily on their acoustical
skills, and with seabed exploration for
minerals all set to go into overdrive it is vital
to know how to conduct our underwater
activities so as to minimize damage to the
whale’s biological needs.
Already preliminary research has shown
that the northern right whale uses low—
frequency calls for deep-water long-
distance communication and high frequen-
cies for short distances. But a lot more
needs to be discovered before a full picture
of the whale’s life pattern can be built up.
The research is supported by donations
and any help in funding this important
work would be greatly appreciated. It
should be sent to: Dorothy Spero, Director
of West Quoddy Marine Research Station,
Lubec, Maine.

 

 

I ©Greetipeace

Greenp ace challenges Peruvian/ Japanese
whaling ship.

Peru, Japan, the Soviet Union, and
Norway filed objections to the International
Whaling Commission decision to end com—
mercial whaling by 1986. Greenpeace ac-
tivists went to Peru to try to persuade the
government to rescind its objection, but the
Japanese whaling company Nihon Hogei,
which has run the Peruvian whaling for 25
years, was not to be pushed aside without
a struggle. Consequently, the Greenpeac-
ers took to the barricades again. Following
is an excerpt from their report in the
Greenpeace Examiner.

“As the Victoria 7 brought in its quarry
on December 13, Ace Van Koetlitz of the
U. K. and Raphael Demandre of France
chained their inﬂatable to the stern rail. Be-
wildered whalers looked on as six other
Greenpeacers boarded the vessel from the
opposite side and chained themselves to
the harpoon cannon, while Peter Willcox,
the skipper of the Rainbow Warrior, scaled
the mast to occupy the crow’s nest.

“The crewmembers’ first reaction was to
head the vessel out to sea; then they cir-
cled around near port and eventualy
dropped anchor. The exchanges that fol—
lowed with the Peruvians were very genial,
and unlike the Japanese officers on board,
they accepted our literature and T—shirts,

ts

Peruvian-

Soon, an official from Paita came on board
to inform us we should release ourselves
because we didn’t have permission from
the port captain’s office to be chained
there. He left us shortly after we explained
that we wouldn’t leave voluntarily unless
the Minister of Fisheries publicly stated that
he was going to withdraw Peru’s objection
to the moratorium.

“One very hot day passed, and as night
came on we took turns sleeping by the de-
commissioned harpoon. Our silent vigil
was abruptly ended at 3 am. when ma-
chine gun-wielding marines suddenly
boarded the vessel. A weary commandant
eventually arrived, arrested us, and had
our chains cut. We were detained for the
day in the port captain’s office, then re-
leased into the custody of more guards on
the Rainbow Warrior, which had been
seized simultaneously with our arrest.

“The next day we gave our statements
to the Paita prosecutor to counter the
charges of Victoria del Mar officials that we
had committed piracy on their vessel. In
Peru this crime carries a prison term of
three to twenty years. A glimpse down—
stairs at a small dark cell devoid of furniture
but full of languid men offered a grim vi-
sion of what our life in the ensuing months
or years might be like.

“Public response to our action was most-
ly favorable. The regional university called
on the government to stop whaling and
free the foreign ecologists. The daily news-
paper Correo proclaimed that ecological
squadrons should be formed to take up the
cause of the whales and other critical envi-
ronmental issues. Sr. Benavides came for-
ward in our defense, saying that the Jap-
anese were the only true pirates for robbing
Peru of its last few whales.

“ . . . You can help influence Peru’s de-
cision by encouraging it to withdraw its ob-
jection. Please write to Peru’s new Minister
of Fisheries: Luis Percovich Roca Ministro
de Pesqueria Av. Javier Prado Este 2465
Lima 30, PERU”

 

In asplendidly reasoned column on
the campaign to Save the Whales, a
campaign which George Will called “a
rare and refreshing example of intelli-
gence in the service of something oth-
er than self—interest,” he credited ap-
peals to conscience from groups like
Greenpeace and the Animal Welfare
Institute with the International Whaling
Commission’s moratorium vote.

He concluded: “As I sit with pen
poised over paper, I am struck by the
oddness of cataloging reasons for

 

Thank You,George Will

abandoning the killing — the cruel and
utterly unnecessary killing — of such
mysterious creatures, about which we
have so much to learn. It is possible,
and not exactly wrong, to give practi-
cal reasons whv saving the whales will
be useful. But there are times, and this
is one, for rising above utilitarianism.
“It is important to say that life is en-
hanced aesthetically by the knowledge
that these sociable creatures are swim-
ming -— andsinging — on the surface
of the sea, and in the sunless depths

below. Furthermore, mankind has do-
minion over the Earth, but mankind’s
unsteady, serpentine path toward finer
sentiments can be measured, in part,
by evolving standards of what consti-
tutes civilized dominion over lower
animals.

“Surely it involves a conviction,
more intuitive than reasoned, that
Creation, and we as the responsible
portion of it, are diminished by wanton
behavior toward creatures that so
stunningly exemplify the mysterious—
ness of the natural.”




 

Summer 1983

 

Whales, Bobcats and Turtles Win

at CITES; Seals and Leopards Lose

Conservationists successfully battled to
give added protection to six species of
whales and maintained strict controls on
the trade in bobcat pelts and green sea tur-
tle products at the biennial meeting of the
Convention on International Trade in En-
dangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora
(CITES) in April. A proposal to monitor all
trade in seal products was blocked by
Canada and several African nations
pressured CITES to allow a limited export
of leopard skins.

The tenth anniversary of the treaty
organization was marked by the 12—day
meeting in Botswana, a vast, bush-covered
country in southern Africa dominated by
the Kalahari Desert and populated by the
ﬁnest wildlife in Africa. Delegations from
more than 60 nations and dozens of non-
governmental organizations gathered
under a transplanted circus tent at the Holi-
day Inn in Gabarone, the dusty capital of
Botswana.

The major business was debating and
voting on proposals to add species to the
controlled-trade lists or to take them off the
lists. CITES has two categories of trade
controls:

Appendix I listing is a total ban on com-
mercial trading between nations. This
status is accorded to endangered species
facing heavy trading pressures.

Appendix [1 applies to species wnose
populations could be endangered by
uncontrolled trade. International trading of
these species is allowed only when it is cer-

tified bv the exportin country that the
trade is not detrimenta to the health of the

population. The exports of these species
must be closely monitored.

CITES gave support to the ban on all
commercial whaling voted by the Inter-
national Whaling Commission last year
(and set to begin at the end of 1985) by
placing the last two species of great whales
on Appendix I. Now all ten species are to
be banned in International trade. The
Bryde’s whale goes on the list immediately.
The Minke whale will be listed on 1
January 1986.

However, Japan, Norway and the
Soviet Union, the leading whaling nations,
voiced strong opposition to the listings and
indicated that they would ignore the trade

ban by filing reservations, a loophole in
CITES which allows nations to escape the
regulations. Overwhelming majorities sup—
ported the listings: 34 to 4 on Bryde’s and
29 to 5 on Minke.

The trading ban was also extended to
four species of bottlenose whales, large
animals which could bear the brunt of
future whaling when the IWC ban on the
ten .great whales takes effect.

The long—standing attempt by the US.
Interior Department to delist the bobcat
from Appendix II — and therefore open
unrestricted killing and trading in their
valuable pelts — was rebuffed decisively by
the CITES delegations after conserva-
tionists demonstrated that bobcat popula—
tions in North America are under severe
pressure already from trapping and that
population data on the species is inade-
quate.

The US. delegation, led by Ray Arnett,
Assistant Secretary of Interior for Fish,
Wildlife and Parks (and former head of the
Wildlife Legislative Fund of America),
made the bobcat delisting its top priority at
CITES. The US. federal courts have
repeatedly rejected attempts by Interior to
evade the CITES requirements on exports
of Appendix II species. The courts have
ruled that bobcat pelts can only be ex-
ported from states where credible scientific
data show the populations are healthy and
can sustain the kill. Many state fish and
game agencies have been unable to com-
ply; they are bitterly opposed to inter—
national regulation. -

The US. was forced to withdraw not on-
ly the bobcat delisting proposal, but also
proposals to take the lynx, river otter, gray
wolf and grizzly bear off Appendix II.
Credible evidence that the populations are
healthy and that trade in their products
would not be detrimental was lacking. The
British proposal to allow trading in green
sea turtle meat from the Cayman Islands
Turtle Farm, strongly supported by the
US, was similarly withdrawn after strong
criticism from the conservation and scien-
tific communities that such trade would
probably increase the sale of poached turtle
meat and such an exemption would knock
a gaping loophole in CITES policy.

The United States government, once the

 

needed!

A right whale (Eubalaena australis) killed in
Brazilian waters. The Brazilian Foundation

an investigation into the killing of this highly
endangered species for submission to the
1983 meeting of the International Whaling
Commission.

 

 

    

Why a whale sanctuary is

for the Conservation of Nature conducted ,

 

 

leader in international wildlife conserva-
tion, has abdicated this position. On this
tenth anniversary of CITES, statements
and actions by the US. delegation made a
mockery of the proud moment in 1973
when the treaty organization was formed at
the behest of the United States. Indeed, the
informal name of the neaty group is the
Washington Convention, in honor of the
site of the formative meeting.

Dr. Mostafa Tolba, executive director of
the United Nations Environment Program,
as he opened the treaty meeting stated:

“At the Washington Conference ten
years ago, fears were expressed that the
proposed convention might be manipu-
lated into a tool to prevent the trade in
wildlife resources; those fears have not
been realized as CITES has matured into
an effective regulatory body helping de-
veloping nations to safeguard their valuable
stock of wild plant and animal species. The
fact that CITES has now been ratified by 81
countries — including most of the world’s
major producing and consumer countries
— is ample testament to the speed with
which it has proved its usefulness to
governmehts, some of which, I think it is
fair to say, were skeptical at first about the
potential value of such a convention.”

Tolba continued: “But then, ten years
ago some governments, particularly those
in the Third World, were similarly skeptical
about the value of conservation in general.
This view has been overturned at the con-
ceptual and practical levels as we have
come to see that conservation of wildlife
and other living resources is an indispens-
able component of sustainable develop-

ment. By demonstrating the economic im-
portance of controlling the trade in wildlife
and wildlife products, CITES has played a
significant role in this about-turn.”

15

 

 




 

 

 

 

FALL 1983

 

Whales not safe yet

The fight to save the whales is not yet won. And could be lost. Despite the
3-year phase-out of commercial whaling agreed at the 1982 IWC meeting, it
is far from certain that 1986 will be celebrated as the year in which the har-
poons were finally stilled and the great whales, after enduring a hundred
years and more of brutal onslaught, were once again assured of safe passage
through the oceans of the world.

And should New Year’s Day 1986 prove to be an occasion for hand:
wringing rather than bell-ringing, then the nation which in recent years has
done more than any other to awake the conscience of the world to the ine—
quity of commercial whaling and to bring about the agreed cease-fire, may
have. to bear a sizeable part of the blame -— and shame. That nation is our

 

 

 

 

own.

The US, and only the US, can

bring real pressure to bear upon

recalcitrant whaling nations.
Since the IWC rules lack the

force of international law. the IWC is
powerless to impose sanctions. It can

exert only moral pressure.
Which is precisely why Congress in
its wisdom (on this occasion, con-

siderable) chose to equip the IWC
with a proxy set of teeth sharp enough

to bite painfully. The Packwood-
Magnuson Amendment to the Fishery
Conservation and Management Act
states clearly and unequivocally that
whaling nations which brazenly flout
IWC decisions will automatically and
immediately lose one half of their fish
allocation within the US ZOO-mile
zone. Should the wrong-doing con-
tinue for a further 12 months, then
the other half of the allocation is also
forfeited. Such a loss would be very
costly to Japan which normally takes
over one-and—a-quarter million metric
tons of fish worth some $400 million
a year from US waters.

Similarly the Pelly Amendment to
the Fishermen’s Protective Act em-
powers the President to embargo fish
imports from nations heedlessly

depleting marine resources. Such an
embargo would be a serious
economic blow to Norway which sells
a huge tonnage of ﬁsh to the US.

Neither of these Amendments has
yet been invoked because strictly
speaking, there cannot be a breach of
the whaling ban until it comes into ef-
fect on 1 January 1986.

What are the prospects? In large
measure the answer depends on
whether in the meantime the US
sends the right signals, demonstrates
its unswerving commitment to the
whale and to the Rule of Law —— in
this caS€,US law.The problem is that
lately the two Government Depart—
ments, State and Commerce, jointly
responsible for step-by-step pursuit of
the shared goal (world-wide
adherence to the whaling ban) have
not been pulling in harness.

One of the divisions within State
has lately been pulling in a direction
which collides with the Commerce
Department, with the Bureau of
Oceans and International and En-
vironmental Affairs in the State
Department, with the forcefully ex-

pressed wishes of Congress and —
most importantly with the best in—

terests of the whales themselves. That
department is the East Asian Bureau
and, unhappily, in recent weeks it has
made much of the running.

There has been action indeed; and
until recently, the right action. For
there was never any intention of
standing idly by until 1986, waiting
upon events. As 66 Senators remind-
ed Secretary of Commerce Baldrige’
in a letter written shortly after the IWC
agreed to the whaling ban (see Fall
1982 Quarterly), the United States
has a quiverful of arrows in its
legislative locker which can be loosed
straightaway at actual or intending
IWC rule-breakers. A start was made
last April when Japan’s fish allocation
was cut by 100,000 tons.

The follow—up, though, has been
acutely disappointing. With Japan re-
maining obdurate, further cuts in its

In July the Japanese received their
full quarterly allocation .The co—author
of the Packwood-Magnuson Amend
ment, Senator Packwood. sent a
bitter letter of complaint to Secretary
of State Shultz in the course of which
he said: “I’ll be doubly furious,
however, if they (the Japanese) get
so much as a single fish when the
September allocation is made.”

So what happened in September?
Japan was given 118,640 tons of fish
—— a far cry from zero. And this huge
haul would have been topped up to
160,000 tons if the now “doubly
furious” Senator, in alliance with the
Secretary of Commerce, had not
remonstrated fiercely. Their joint
plea, though, that Tokyo be told that
further fish allocations were depen-
dent on an unequivocal commitment
to rescind the whaling ban, was whol-
ly ignored. News of the September
allocation was sent to Japan accom-
panied by no reproof for present in-
transigence and no call for future
reform.

Congress has decreed that fish
allocations to foreign countries be in-
dissolubly tied to good behavior on
whaling. Japan must simply be told
— “Sorry, but that is the law of the
land.” To have fought so long and
hard for a ban on whaling, to have
finally achieved it and then to throw
away the fruits of it would be to pluck
defeat from the jaws of victory.

 

 

 

U.S. Senate
Resolution 174-
agreed 18 July 1983

Be it resolved that the Secretary of
State and the Secretary of Com-
merce are urged to continue to use
all diplomatic and legal means to
achieve worldwide compliance with
the lntemational Whaling Commis-
sion moratorium decision, includ-
ing use of the Pelly amendment to
the Fishermen’s Protective Act, the
Packwood-Magnuson amendment
to the Magnuson Fishery Conserva-
tion and Management Act, and all
other appropriate legal tools.

 

 

91:31




  

u

Sculpture in stone of a sperm whale by William Cafritz.

 

 

 

r

OBJECTION WITHDRAWN

At the 1983 IWC meeting in Brighton,
England, attended by 36 member states,
by far the most signiﬁcant — and
dramatic — event came about on the final
day. Peru which had been wobbling all
week ﬁnally plucked up its courage and
announced: “Our country’s objection to
the commercial whaling moratorium is
withdrawn.” The news was greeted with
delight by the vast majority of those pre-
sent. One notable oasis of gloom,
though, amidst the prevailing joy was the
delegation from Japan.

QUOTAS DOWN

Quotas for the first time ever have dipped
below the 5—figure mark; down from
12,577 last year to 9875 this year. The
minke whale ‘benefits’ the most —— by a
very wide margin. But then this is hardly
surprising since the minke now comprises
nearly 90% of the total catch.

Norway, pleading economic distress
and supported by many of the European
nations, battled hard to retain at least half
of last year’s allotment of minkes. But the
Scientific Committee, which includes
Norwegians, had unanimously recom-
mended a two-thirds cut, and in the end
science triumphed over sentiment and

 

k

A Letter From A Whale
brings huge

human response

A Letter From A Whale tells how whales
and their families live, how very similar they
are in certain respects to human families,
and pleads for help in silencing the murder-
ous harpoons. The October 1984 issue of
Family Circle carried a brief mention of this
AWI-sponsored letter. As a result more than
60,000 children and their parents have writ-
ten to ask us for copies. One child, Elisabeth
Ferrara age 10, included with her $5 dona-
tion a delightful and touching poem.

International Whaling Commission Meeting 1

the fishery politics of western Europe.

BOWHEAD COMPROMISE

The fiercest tussle was over the bowhead.
With the population estimate sharply up
over previous years, the Scientific Com—
mittee was no longer urging a zero quota.
All the same its recommended figure of
— at the very most — 22 strikes for the
coming year was considerably lower than
the US opening bid of 35.

After many hours of failed attempts to
reach agreement, a proposal for 43
strikes over a 2-year period with not more
than 27 strikes in any one year was ac-
cepted by consensus. Why no vote?
Probably the fact that it was by this time
3:30 am. on the sixth morninng of a
5-day meeting had something to do with
it.

INDIA SPEAKS OUT

Japan claimed that improvements made
to their explosive harpoons had reduced
average time to death (after being har-
pooned) from 3 minutes 58 seconds to 3
minutes 1 second. The Commissioner for
India was not impressed. He said:
“Countries involved in whaling should
reduce the killing time to what would be
acceptable to man himself, or stop it en-
tirely.”

UHALES

There were 59 ma
€593 got '\'o \n. 80 ha»
“in! of {1 e ocean
Living in It’: can

Secret moi-ll

Avhn‘l'ic

AciFic
Jinn too.
50 precious
So 'i'thdef
PCALC‘H.‘
QM blue
Tim-r. were 50 man
but going to be so (w

6., .
Elia-Mod“ FmArA

60. \o

 

photos: W" Cafritz

17

 




 

 

 

Exerpts from:

MARTITA GOSHEN: THE LADY OF THE DANCE

Evoking the animals’ dance of life

by Leslie Bennetts

As the haunting eerie music begins, she
glides onstage into the light. Small and
blonde and sinewy, she wears only ﬁlmy
veils that ﬂoat behind her, evanescent as
whale spume.

The music is the songs of humpback
whales, and the dance is Whale Song. At
ﬁrst the dancer rolls and slides, smooth and
steady as a whale slicing through the water.
But suddenly the enemy appears, and the
peace of nature is shattered as the gentle
creature becomes a quarry. Increasingly
frantic, she ﬂees her pursuers, but they are
relentless and the harpoon ﬁnds its mark.
Flopping and gasping in her death throes,
the great whale ﬁnally subsides, sinking
with violent convulsions into the stillness of
death.

Conceived and choreographed seven
years ago by Martita Goshen, Whale Song
has been performed all over the world: on
the White House lawn and in the emperor’s
garden in Tokyo, in a cow pasture in Maine
and in London’s Trafalgar Square, in
schools from New York to Copenhagen.

Whales are not Goshen’s only concern.
‘ ‘Whale Song’ ’ was her ﬁrst work involving
animals —— chosen because whales represent
to her an international symbol of man’s
disrespect for nature and the suffering caus-
ed by his depredations — but it has since
been joined by other dances: about sea
turtles, about seals, about wolves, and, in
her latest work in progress, about dogs.

Martita Goshen is an anomaly. Strad-
dling the world of dance and that of animal
protection and environmental conservation,
she has created a unique niche for herself in
expressing both concerns. Her work in
behalf of endangered species began with her
ﬁrst exposure to whales, an experience so
overwhelming it amounted to an epiphany.

On a visit to California while on vacation
from the Charles Weidman Company (with
which she was dancing), Goshen took a Na-
tional Geographic-sponsored boat trip in
San Diego Bay. There she saw a gray whale
— and the whale saw her. “She turned and
her eye looked at me, and at that point my
life became absolutely different, ’ ’ says Mar-
tita softly, ‘ ‘because in that eye was the wis-
dom of the world. Something drew me right
to the pupil, and it brought a sense of utter
calmness to my life which before then did
not exist. In that eye I saw fear, curiosity,
and acceptance. That such a huge creature
could be so gentle and so obviously in-
telligent! I felt my life take on new im-
portance. Within a few days, I heard a
recording of the songs of humpback whales
and I thought, ‘Why don’t I do a ballet
about whales?’ The ﬁrst time I did it was in

1976, with nine dancers in a company in
Bethesda, Maryland, and I knew the night I
premiered it that I’d found my home.”

Goshen’s work has won her the respect of
many colleagues in the environmental
movement. jacques Cousteau called her
whale dance “more eloquent than any
speech and as graceful as the ﬂuid dance of
the true whale.”

In addition to performing, Goshen has
worked extensively with schoolchildren,
directing workshops and training teachers as
well as children in the use of dance as a tool
to promote understanding of environmental
issues.

“I think her work is important,” says
Christine Stevens, president of the Animal
Welfare Institute, in Washington, D.C.

“We need to have young people learn
about the importance of maintaining these
creatures, many of which are in consider-
able danger of extinction,” adds Stevens.
“Something like this encourages them to
have the right kind of feeling toward other
living things, whether they be animals or
people. Martita’s work is unique.”

The daughter of an American diplomat
who specialized in Latin American affairs,
she was born in Uruguay, but the family
moved often. “I grew up in the hot steam-

Through dance performances and workshops,
animals.

ing jungles of Brazil, Paraguay, Colombia,
Argentina, and Venezuela,” she reports.
Her own life was comfortable, but she was
shocked by its contrast with the suffering she
saw: “As a child, the hardest thing to un-
derstand is how you can go to school in a
limousine and see such dire poverty around
you.”

A serious skiing accident when she was a
teenager forced her to drop not only dance
but virtually all other strenuous physical ac-

 

WINTER 1984

18

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 

photo— Tom Caravaglia

Martita brings home to schoolchildren the plight of

 
   

  

tivity. She underwent surgery and received
a plastic knee joint, but the damage was ex-
tensive. “It took me years to learn how to
walk again,” Goshen says. “The accident
was in 1962, and it was 1971 before I had
ﬂuid use of my leg again.”

Goshen spent her adolescent years in Eu-
rope, ﬁrst in Lisbon, then at a ﬁnishing
school in Lausanne, Switzerland, which she
hated. “My family thought it would be a
great treat and I’d have a lark, but I was ap-

 

r)hr\fr‘7 3J4. r—‘t Rlnnm

 




 

palled by the frivolity of it. It seemed unreal
to me. I had this burning desire to fix, to
make the world better — to contribute
somehow.”

After graduating from Elmira College, in
upstate New York, and earning a master’s
degree in political science at West Virginia
University, Goshen worked as a volunteer

 

doing research on the aging and on poverty
in Appalachia for Robert F. Kennedy and
Martin Luther King. She was shattered by
their deaths and began to reassess her goals.

As an artist Goshen is inspired by all
kinds of stimuli. Just as the eye of a whale
prompted her commitment to that species,
when she heard a composition called Wolf
Eyes, by jazz saxphonist Paul Winter, she
was deeply moved. Upon learning that
wolves are sometimes run down and cor-

photo— Tom Cara vaglia

photo— James Ferry

 

Not interested in performing literal imitations
of animals in her dances, Martita strives to evoke
the spirits of the whale, sea turtle and wolf.

nered by hunters in helicopters, she was
aghast, and created a dance about wolves.
She choreographed a sea turtle dance at the
request of Christine Stevens, despite con-
siderable difﬁculties posed by the sea tur-
tle’s shape and style of motion. “I took
some poetic license,” Goshen admits. “Af-
ter all, you can’t just go lumbering around
the stage like a jer .”

A couture assistant to Christian Dior saw
Goshen perform her seal dance in Paris and
offered his services to benefit the cause. The
result was a costume with extravagant
lavender and green rufﬂes, which helped
put Goshen in the mood to communicate the
essence of sea turtle. “I don’t want to im-
itate these animals,” she explains. “I want
to evoke their spirit in the public’s mind.”

Her dog dances were inspired by a grow-
ing involvement with a pack of feral dogs
living on her street. Although they were a
neighborhood nuisance, nobody did any-
thing about them. “The dogs looked terri-
ble,” Goshen says. “They were mangy and
suffering, and I finally said, “I can’t take
this anymore. ” She began to stay up late
at night and listen to what was going on in
the street when the dogs came out to
scavenge. Then she started putting out
food, and gradually each dog permitted her
to approach and ﬁnally to feed it. The entire
campaign was conducted with extreme cau-
tion, since feral dogs can be dangerous.

She now has a whole system worked out.
‘ ‘I get the dog cleaned up and bring it to my
ballet teacher, who tries to place it through
her students,” Goshen says. If no one will
take the dog, Martita takes it to the ASPCA
— unless she herself has succumbed to its
forlorn soulful eyes.

Since embarking on her career as a dog
owner, Goshen has choreographed two of
three planned dog dances: a trio involving
a Springer Spaniel, a Russian Wolfhound,
and a Great Dane; and a humorous poi-
gnant piece about a stray dog. She is devel-

photo— James Ferry

oping a duet about a stray and “a very leg-
gy elegant Weimaraner.” All the dances
make delightfully clear each breed’s per-
sonality and characteristic style of motion,
and Goshen’s stray —-— scrappy, tough, and
vulnerable — is a surefire crowd pleaser.

Though she choreographs most of the
dances she performs, Goshen asked anoth-
er choreographer, David Anderson, to
create a work for her about seals, an elegy
for a mother seal whose baby has just been
killed. She has performed that work in a
number of places, including a Greenpeace
benefit in Paris.

Her other travels have been under the
auspices of a variety of organizations. Dur-
ing the Carter administration, she danced
on the White House lawn at an event spon-
sored by several environmental and conser-
vation groups to celebrate solar energy and
the importance of preserving endangered
spec1es.

The Animal Welfare Institute sent her to
Tokyo, where she danced in the emperor’s
garden to show American support for
whale protection during the International
Whaling Commission conference in Japan.
Another IWC conference took her to Lon-
don; there she danced in Trafalgar Square
on behalf of Friends of the Earth.

“Nobody gave me the money to do the
art,” she says. “I did it because I had a
burning desire to make a difference. The
whales can’t talk. But I’m so poor, I go
around debating whether or not I’ll use the
subway. My mother’s family can’t under-
stand why I would want to live in New York
City and starve. My father thinks it’s a
scandal. He feels that with my degrees I
should be commanding a huge salary or
contributing to society as a professor at
Smith College or something. I understand
how they feel,” she adds with a grin. “I
sometimes question my sanity too.”

But her work has provided an outlet for
the feelings that used to overwhelm her. “I
am intrigued by the animal kingdom be-
cause I ﬁnd that the rage and frustration I
feel about the injustices of the human
world, I can resolve in dealing with the ani—
mal world,” she explains. “I was in a con-
stant state of rage in my 205 —- at man’s in-
difference and cruelty and inhumanity to
himself and to animals and to Earth. I’ve
calmed down a lot now. Every day, you’ve
got to live as if it were your last. I despise
the ordinary; the mundane is fearful to me;
because it makes us forget the precious
things in life — being alive, honoring life.
Animals are beautiful and need to be pre-
served; they’re endangered and oppressed.
I’m strong and blessed, one of the privi-
leged, so I feel it’s my responsibility to take
care of my comer of Earth, no matter how
small.”

reprinted from Animal Kingdom
copies available
from the Animal Welfare Institute.

19

 




 

SPRING 1984

 

 

‘ a C a a .

The IWC voted to end all killing of sperm whales.

. C C C 0

Richard Ellis

At its annual meeting in Buenos Aires, the International Whaling Commission voted on the
quotas for the ﬁnal year of commercial whaling before the agreed cessation. Most signiﬁcant
decisions were the ban on sperm whale killing and reduction of the kill of minke whales in the
Southern Ocean to 4,224, a quota which Soviet, Japanese and Brazilian whalers must divide
among themselves. Cost of sending whaling vessels to antarctic waters is high. The 40% quota

reduction impinges heavily on any proﬁts.
The small minke whales were not even con—
sidered worth the trouble of pursuing and
butchering before the huge blue whales and
ﬁn whales had been driven to near extinc-

 
 

.‘ﬁ " .
7////////4/// ,W

 

 

‘ ‘Sperm Whales”

 

US stands ﬁrm

on whaling

Correspondence during the summer be-
tween Senator Bob Packwood and Secretary
of Commerce Malcolm Baldrige makes it
plain that the US will indeed implement the
Packwood-Magnuson Amendment against
any country which continues commercial
whaling after the end of next year when the
whaling ban comes into effect.

Senator Packwood wrote to the Secretary of
Commerce on 28 June seeking an assurance
on this score. On 24 July he received a very
positive letter from Secretary Baldrige which
said (in part): ‘ ‘Any government that chooses
to ignore the commercial whaling mora-
torium . . . should be prepared to accept the
consequences. I agree that any doubt regard-
ing the US position should be dispelled. I
hope this clariﬁes our commitment to the ef-
fective implementation of the moratorium.”

Packwood-Magnuson reduces by at least
half the tonnage of ﬁsh that a nation in breach
of IWC regulations may catch in US waters.
Japan and the USSR are now being told
unambigUOusly: comply -— or else.

tion.

Japanese whaling interests used every
means to obtain a quota of 7390 minkes.
The IWC’s Scientiﬁc Committee, however,
noting how rapidly the populations of
minkes are decreasing, recommended that
no more than 3887 be taken. The Commis-

Piloting grounded whales back to sea and safety

At low tide on 28 September 1983 a large herd of pilot whales grounded on a gradual-sloping,
sandy beach in N orthland, New Zealand. It was 6 a.m. and a cold bleak morning with rain
squalls and a south-westerly wind.

tance was needed; the water was now deep
enough for the whales to swim. The rescue
continued until all but four of the 80—strong
herd were back in the sea again.

The four exceptions were juveniles which
had died of stress brought on by the ordeal
coupled with enforced separation from their
mothers. They were lifted by helicopter and
buried well above high-water mark.

The schoolchildren who helped in the res-
cue have been presented with a com-
memorative plaque.

A feature worthy of note is that dolphins
are sometimes involved. Twice in recent
years they have been seen piloting rescued

The grounding was discovered by a resi-
dent who promptly raised the alarm by phon-
ing the local radio station and her neighbors.
In no time people began arriving at the scene.

Fortunately one or two of them were
conversant with my rescue techniques and a
trial run was attempted. Although it met with
some success we decided to wait for the in—
coming tide to assist us in our efforts by giving
the whales more buoyancy.

Meanwhile more. helpers were arriving,
among them a busload of schoolchildren. By
this time the tide was “making” fast, so we
assembled our teams and went into action,
turning the whales seawards and then push-

sion, which requires a 3A majority voted 22
to 7 to allow an additional 337 to be killed
but it is unlikely that the whalers can make
ends meet without government subsidy in
the coming season.

Japan, Russia and Norway all ﬁled
objections to the cessation after it was
adopted in 1982 by a vote of 25 to 7. Soon
they will have to withdraw their objections
or become subject to the sanctions of US
laws: the Pelly Amendment and the
Packwood-Magnuson Amendment which
can cut ﬁsh imports from offending coun-
tries and prevent them from ﬁshing in US

 

 

 

 

waters.
ing and pulling with each incoming wave. whales to the safety of the open sea.
Once beyond the breakers no further assis-
SUMMER 1984 Frank Robson
. . Boycott
J apan to end COmmﬁrCIal Whallng An intensively coordinated worldwide

boycott of Japan Airlines (J AL) is scheduled
to begin January 1, 1985 if Japan has not
withdrawn its objections to the ban on sperm
whaling and the moratorium and agreed to
comply with IWC decisions.

Travel agents in North America, Europe,
Australia and New Zealand will be asked not
to book passengers on JAL ﬂights and all
friends of whales urged to refrain from ﬂying
JAL until Japan honors the decisions of the
IWC. The Government of Japan owns
37.7% of JAL, the largest share holder
being the Ministry of Finance.

—— but will the whales notice any change?

Japan’s smoke-screen

Japan will end commercial whaling in line In Japanese coastal waters it would be classed
with the advice from a private body to the as “indigenous” (on the model of the
chief of the Fisheries Agency. Excellent news, Alaskan eskimo’s bowhead quota). The
you would think — but What is the exact form workforce in Japan’s only whaling company
of this “advice”? would remain at its present strength.

As from November 1985, commercial What does all this amount to? Surely it is
whaling would ostensibly cease. In the Ant- the continuation of commercial whaling by
arctic it would be replaced by “investigative” another name — or rather by two other
whaling for research purposes conducted, as names, “investigative” and “indigenous”.
now, by a mother ship and four catcher boats. It will not do.

 

 

 

 

 

 




Book revieW_Strandings,

by Frank D. Robson,

The Science Press , Johannesburg, South Africa, 1984. Illustrated, with drawings, charts and diagrams.
Available from the Animal Welfare Institute, $39.95 prepaid.

One expects a book on whale stranding to
be a museum scientist’s tome, replete with
tables of lengths and extrapolated weights, a
catalogue of parasites; and a picture some-
where of the author among painstakingly
cleaned and mounted skeletons.

There is no smell of formalin about the
pages of Strandings. What Frank D. Robson
has distilled from sixteen years of work
among many hundreds of cetaceans aground
along the New Zealand coasts, is an insight-
ful, informative, sometimes moving book on
the behavior of living whales, combined with
an eminently practical manual on how to
assist stranded animals. It dispells the
mythology which has grown up around mass
strandings, and allows us to grasp why ——
from the standpoint of the whales themselves
— the animals go aground. Robson is a
pioneer; the ﬁrst person to have systematical-
ly exploited the opportunity to learn about liv-
ing cetaceans through strandings. His book
is, without question, a classic and his personal
example in successfully moving hundreds of
whales and dolphins back to sea or preventing
them from stranding at all stands as a goal for
friends of whales throughout the world.

Frank Robson was in his mid ﬁfties, just
retired as a commercial fisherman, when he
began his study of strandings. He was
motivated, more than anything else, by his
perplexity at the awesome spectacle of — as it
was then regarded — mass cetacean suicide.
The only hint that he might succeed, where
the scientific establishment had failed, in
unravelling the enigma was his uncanny
ability to train, and to understand dolphins at
the Napier, New Zealand oceanarium.

Strandings puts to rest the illogical notion
of mass suicide. Robson found that strand-
ings of toothed whales and large dolphins fall,
into four categories: individual strandings of
aged and inﬁrm whales; strandings of other-
wise healthy whales with localized parasite
infections; mass strandings of herds made up
of family groups; and strandings from
bachelor sperm whale herds migrating from
the Antarctic. He provides perfectly logical,
although sometimes surprising, explanations
for each behavior.

The strandings of aged individuals, no
longer able to continue swimming, who come
ashore —— perhaps deliberately — to die are
the least difficult to understand. Robson
studied numerous cases, and does not hesitate
to assert that attempts to reﬂoat obviously
sick, aged and emaciated whales are hopeless,
and that the animals should be euthanized.

 

 

Most, upon autopsy, have been found, along
with their other troubles, to carry appalling
loads of nematodes and other internal
parasites.

Younger adults who ground, sometimes
with their calves, have similarly proven be-
yond help. The great bulk of the animals
autopsied were shown to have gross parasite
infections of the ears and sinuses. These un-
fortunate whales often gash the areas sur-
rounding the infection on rocks in a desperate
effort to achieve relief. The only quandary for
would-be-rescuers is an accompanying calf.
Only if the mother is no longer lactating,
Robson suggests, should the calf be reﬂoated.
This must be done after the mother has been
euthanized, so the calf will not hear her
distress calls and return.

It is the strange phenomenon of mass
stranding that the book chieﬂy addresses.
Through his own observations, and by ex-
haustive debriefings of local observers, Rob-
son has been able to reconstruct the sequence
of events in scores of mass strandings some
involving over 200 pothead or false killer
whales. Robson finds that while herds may
occasionally become disoriented by severe
storms, especially those with massive light-
ning discharges, this is uncommon except
among bachelor sperms.

Most strandings of mixed herds are social
in origin. In almost all cases they are brought
about by group concern for the fate of a single
whale.

   

Cover photo of Strandings, a doIphin rescue.

 

photo —- Frank Robson

 

Occasionally the “key” whale in question
is an aged animal which detaches itself from a
passing herd and goes ashore, and, in ex-
tremis, begins emitting distress calls, which
draw in the herd and eventually leads it to
strand itself. Sometimes the key whale is a
female experiencing difﬁculty in giving birth.

The most typical situation, however, involves
the ejection from the herd of an animal,
usually an adolescent, who has apparently
violated some taboos of the herd. Such an
outcaste,agitated and disoriented,is liable to
strand itself. Its distress calls, despite its
pariah status, draw members of its own fami-
ly group who go aground trying to help. Their
distress in turn brings other family groups,
until the entire herd is aground.

The common denominator of mixed group
strandings is emotional agitation. Emotional-
ly stressed animals, among the species prone
to stranding, swim on the surface. This robs
them of the ability to gauge the depth of the
water, which they can readily do with
(forehead transmitted) sonar during their nor-
mal “loping” mode of swimming. The ﬁrst
indication a surface swimming animal may
have of shore is when it feels bottom. By then,
it is usually too late, in an incoming tide, to
avoid grounding.

Strandings provides state-of-the-art advice
on rescuing and reﬂoating whales. Robson
stresses however, that social bonds are so in-
tense that it is useless to expect whales to re-
main at sea as long as other members of the
herd continue to emit distress calls. The best
way to prevent distress calls from living
whales while reﬂoating operations are under-
way, is for humans to stand by them, wetting
them down occasionally and talking in a calm
and reassuring way. This fact, repeatedly
demonstrated during strandings, goes far in
itself to support Robson’s view that some in-
terspecies communication is possible, and, in
fact, naturally occurs.

Strandings is far from truly “stripping the
mystery” from whale beaching. Robson has
answered certain questions only to open the
way to new ones. Many of his conclusions
and hypotheses need further testing by other
investigators, in other settings. Certainly,
Frank Robson stands far forward on the front
line of human efforts to understand whales.
Strandings is a book any scientist involved in
cetacean research must read, and that
everyone interested in whales will very much
want to read.

Tom Garrett

 

 

 

21

 




 

 

 

 

FALL 1984

 

US Capitulates to Japan on Whales

Whale protectors sue

Abruptly abdicating the leadership posi-
tion the United States has held in the long
ﬁght to save the great whales from extinc-
tion, the US Government on November 13
bowed to Japan’s intense pressure and an-
nounced it would not impose economic sanc-
tions on Japan for sperm whaling, despite
the International Whaling Commission deci-
sion that no spem whales be killed.

Japanese Whalers immediately began
harpooning the endangered sperm whales
in defiance of the IWC ban.

The Packwood-Magnuson amendment to
the Fishery Conservation and Management
Act requires the US Government to certify
any country that “diminishes the effective-
ness” of the International Whaling Commis-
sion, and cut off 50% of its allocation of
ﬁsh in the US ZOO-mile limit. If the violation
continues for a year, the nation is banned
from all ﬁshing in the US 200-mile zone.

Japan has killed sperm whales (see Green-
peace photograph) contrary to the 25 to 1
vote by IWC nations protecting sperm
whales but, instead of certifying and cutting
Japan’s ﬁsh quota, our government promised
to withhold sanctions and let Japan kill 400
sperm whales a year for two years. Scientiﬁc
ﬁndings show that because of the savage ex-
ploitation of this population of whales in the

North Paciﬁc over the years, it cannot in-
crease its numbers for a decade or more even
if no sperm whalesare killed!

The Animal Welfare Institute and eight
other groups ﬁled a lawsuit in US District

   

One of two sperm whale brought in by Nitto Hogei whaling ship R yuho Maru at Wadaura Chiba, Japan on

November 11, 1984.

22

Court seeking a judicial order nullifying any
bilateral agreement with Japan that would
allow outlaw whaling, and a court order di-
recting the Secretaries of Commerce and
State to impose mandatory sanctions against
the Japanese ﬁshing industry as required
under the Packwood-Magnuson Amend-
ment.

Representing the conservationists in the
lawsuit is William D. Rogers, former Under
Secretary of State. His law ﬁrm, Arnold and
Porter, prepared the legal action pro bono.

Rogers stated: “The lawsuit is based on
the premise that any commitment by the
Secretary of Commerce not to certify
Japanese sperm whaling would be an
unlawful agreement not to enforce US Law.’ ’

Senator Bob Packwood (R-Oregon), co-
author of the law, says the US-Japan agree-
ment is ﬂatly illegal: “Packwood-Magnuson
is extremely clear. It is absolutely manda-
tory, not discretionary policy. It leaves no
wiggle room or gray area in which represen-
tatives of our government can negotiate with
the Japanese or any other foreign power to
take sperm whales.”

Capitulation by the US came after several
weeks of intense negotiations between the
two countries. Japan kept increasing the
pressure against government agencies that
were trying to maintain American leadership
in whale conservation and the deterrent of
the Packwood-Magnuson Amendment. The
Japanese ﬁshing industry threatened massive
retaliation against US ﬁshermen, with whom

© 1984 Pat

H ermn/Green peace

they do heavy trade. Japan’s Ministry of
Agriculture and Fisheries reportedly threat-
ened US agricultural imports. Foreign Min-
ister Shintaro Abe coordinated a drum-beat
attack against US policy in both Washington
and Tokyo.

Working hand-in-hand with Japanese ne-
gotiators were ofﬁcials of the State Depart-
ment, speciﬁcally the Japan Desk and the
Economic Affairs bureau, who felt that the
penalties of the Packwood-Magnuson
Amendment should not be brought to bear
against Japan.

Thomas Garrett, who served as US deputy
commissioner to the IWC from 1977 through
1983 and headed the American delegation to
the IWC in 1981 when the commission
voted, by 25 to 1 (with only Japan
dissenting), to prohibit all further sperm
whaling, stated, “Any deal to allow con-
tinued sperm whaling jeopardizes the fruits
of twelve years of labor and support of mil-
lions of Americans. It would open a Pan-
dora’s Box of problems. Every whaling na-
tion, including those that have agreed to
cease whaling or have already stopped,
would demand a similar deal.

“If the US is faced down in this manner, ’ ’
Garrett points out ‘ ‘the Packwood-Magnuson
Amendment and its sister law, the Pelly
Amendment, which alone have deterred
whaling nations from defying the IWC in
recent years, would cease to be credible. The
moratorium would crumble and the IWC
would revert to impotence.”

Ethical Questions

of Whaling
by Roger Payne, Ph.D.

Research on whales demonstrates that
they are in possession of unusually large
brains. Although there is no general
agreement on what the function of these
brains may be, it is a principle of evolu-
tion that such a complex organ does not
develop in a species unless it confers an
advantage on the survival of that species.

Recent research on whales has demon-
strated that some species‘ have very com-
plex repertoires of sounds; that other
species make sounds that can carry over
distances of thousands of miles; that still
others sing long, complex (and, to human
ears, beautiful) songs, that these songs
are constantly changed according to laws
of form that are remarkably similar to
some laws of human musical composi-
tion, and that these laws are inherited cul-
turally or genetically. The function of the

 

 




 

songs and the reason they change so con-
stantly are unknown, but the ability to
memorize a song lasting perhaps 25 min-
utes, and to incorporate in it all of the
complex annual changes, presumably in-
dicates something of what the whale’s
brain can do.

In at least four separate laboratories in
the United States, there is research cur-
rently in progress on techniques for com-
municating with cetaceans. Though dif-
ferent in detail, these efforts are essen-
tially modifications of techniques pio-
neered by primatologists for teaching
American Sign, computer, and symbolic
languages to chimpanzees and gorillas.
The early emphasis in that research was
on demonstrating that some non-human
animals are capable Of the same abstrac-
tions necessary to communicate via
human languages. That chimpanzees
and gorillas are capable of such abstrac-
tion is now widely accepted.

The current research with porpoises,
though it employs the same techniques,
has a different emphasis. One current di-
rection is an effort to learn more about
behavior of porpoises in the wild by
teaching a porpoise a simple language
and then asking it simple questions. Con-
versations are envisioned such as: ‘ ‘Before
you came here, how many fish did you eat
each day?” or “Did sharks ever attack

“Genius Award” to Roger Payne

 

Roger Payne

observing whales.

W.W.F.

The prestigious MacArthur Foundation award made to the five most brilliant thinkers it
selects each year will be presented to Dr. Roger Payne in recognition of his accomplishments in
cetology and environmental affairs. The award carries with it $240,000 in 1984.

Roger Payne, a distinguished member of the Animal Welfare Institute’s Scientific Committee
since 1976, received the Albert Schweitzer Medal in 1980. His magniﬁcent acceptance speech
appeared in the “Animal Welfare Institute Quarterly” Vol. 30, No. 1, Spring, 1981. It was he
who brought the songs of the humpback whale to public notice, and the recordings were
distributed so widely that it outstripped all previous records. His television documentary, “Mon-
sters of the Deep,” told for the first time of the lives of the severely endangered Southern Right
whales closely observed for years in Patagonian waters by Roger and Katy Payne. In 1978, he
prepared a statement for submission to the International Whaling Commission on ethical con-

 

you?” or “Do you like it here?”. Ques-
tions of this and of greater complexity have
been asked of and answered by non-
human primates, and present indications
suggest that porpoises will do well in such
tests. If so, animal behaviorists may soon
resemble their anthropologist colleagues as
regards study techniques — interviews
with the subject may become a principal
tool of investigation in animal behavior.

We have been discussing research proj-
ects that are currently underway, not sim-
ply plans for the future. Should these
projects yield positive results (and current
indications strongly suggest they will ——
and soon), it would probably seem ironic,
if not unethical, to many more people
than have hitherto been involved in ques-
tions of whale conservation, to recognize
a value for porpoises and whales only in
relation to how much they contribute to
human nutrition or in respect to their
worth as lubricants.

The problems of research with large
whales are manifest, experimentation
under controlled conditions is unknown,
and we must be content at present with
simple observations. In spite of these lim-
itations, it is already obvious that what—
ever it is cetaceans use their large brains
for, it is almost certainly not the same as
what humans do with theirs. Thus, re-
gardless of the answer, it promises to be

 

siderations.

 

 

one of the most intriguing discoveries of
the future. By continuing whaling, we
threaten this mystery; we threaten the
legacy we leave for our descendants, and,
thus, we threaten our options as a species.

In the United States, we spent, during
1975, more money on seeing live marine
mammals (in zoos and aquaria, on whale-
watching tours, in television specials, and
in books and magazine articles) than the

 

 

On December eleventh,

 

that the U.S./Japan bila
agreement be declared unl
and also asking for a Court)
forcing Secretaries Baldrige

is expected in January.

 

 

Whale protection groups filed a" H
tion for summary judgment, a lag

Sbultz to impose sanctions on J
immediately. An expedited heap“: 13g.

 

 

 

largest whaling nation made from whal-
ing. It is clear from this and from the
increasing presence of whales in the lit-
erature, art, music, sculpture, dance,
conservation efforts, news media cover-
age, and legislation of this country that
an increased awareness of the values of
whales in their live state makes the prac-
tice of whaling unacceptable to US. citi-
zens on ethical grounds.

   

 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  

23

 




 

WINTER 1985

 

Lawsuit to save the whales

The lawsuit to save the whales has not yet
been ruled on by U.S. District Courtjudge
Richey, before whom it is pending, but
voluminous legal papers continue to be
ﬁled on both sides of the case. OnJanuary
24th William D. Rogers of Arnold & Porter,
on behalf of the nine whale conservation
groups including the Animal Welfare Insti-
tute, ﬁled memoranda in opposition to
defendants’ motion and in support of the
whale protectors’ motion for summary judg-
ment. The memoranda conclude:

“ The November 13, 1984 correspondence-

does not commit Japan ever to stop whaling
for any species of whale at any future date.
In order to avoid certiﬁcation through the
end of 1987, Japan is required only to com—
ply with certain U.S.-created quotas and to
‘withdraw’ its ‘objections’ by December 13,
1984 (in the case of the sperm whaling
moratorium) and by April 1, 1985 (in the
case of the general whaling cessation) . . .
But the withdrawal of objections does not
constitute a promise to comply.

“If, on December 31, 1987, Japan were to
withdraw as a member of the IWC — as the
Convention permits any party to do on
December 31 of any year and as Japan
repeatedly has threatened to do - Japan
could continue whaling indeﬁnitely. The
November 13, 1984 understanding would be
of no effect. Such action by Japan would be
consistent with international law since the
Convention permits such withdrawals. It
would be consistent with the November 13,
1984 understanding, which contains no com-
mitment whatsoever to the contrary. That
understanding then would have accom-
plished nothing for the United States, for the
cause of whale preservation, or for the IWC
and the Convention. It would, however,
have accomplished a great deal for Japan’s
commercial whaling industry, by postponing
the Packwood—Magnuson sanction until it
was drained of any effect. As elequently ex-
plained by Secretary of Commerce Malcolm
Baldrige in his January 14, 1985 affidavit:

“ ‘The Administration’s policy is to en-
courage the development of domestic ﬁsher-
ies and the export of ﬁsheries products
originating in the ﬁshery conservation zone.
To the extent this policy is effective, the total
allowable level of foreign fishing referred to
in section 201 of the Magnuson Act will
decrease. Accordingly, the government’s
leverage under the Packwood-Magnuson
Amendment can be expected to decrease as
foreign ﬁshermen are displaced by domestic
ﬁshermen.’

“Because the understanding with Japan
entails no commitment to comply with IWC
quotas, it conflicts even with Defendants’
self~serving reconstruction of past ad-
ministrative practice.

 

 

 

 

Judge Charles H. Richey ruled March ﬁfth that Japan must
be certiﬁed for killing protected whales and that its ﬁshing
allocations in the US ZOO-mile zone be cut as required by the
Packwood-Magnuson Amendment.

The Judge ordered that Secretary Baldrige and Secretary
Shultz be permanently enjoined from failing to certify any
whaling activities by Japan that violate IWC quotas.

Further, he denied the government’s request for a stay,
but this was granted by the Court of Appeals March 19th.
Final action is awaited.

 

 

“The November 13, 1984 exchange of cor-
respondence gives no commitment that
Japan will ever comply . . .

“Thus, even if one assumes that the
Secretary of Commerce has unfettered
discretion to determine what actions

 

 

 

‘diminish the effectiveness’ of the conven-
tion, the November 13, 1984 understanding
with Japan is unsupportable —— a classic
abuse of discretion. It trades a continuation
of Japanese whaling — which must on any
theory diminish the Convention’s effec-
tiveness — for nothing.”

 

Boycott to save the whales

 

A worldwide boycott against Japan Airlines began in January. Whale conservation organiza—
tions throughout the world are joining together in this boycott, which is being coordinated by
Greenpeace, to persuade the Government of Japan to end commercial whaling. Japan Airlines
was selected because the Government of Japan is its major shareholder. Japan exerts the greatest
inﬂuence in the world to destroy the commercial whaling moratorium overwhelmingly adopted
by the International Whaling Commission (IWC) in 1982 and due to begin at the end of this
year. Even now Japanese Whalers are killing the great sperm whales in deﬁance of the IWC.

The Animal Welfare Institute took a
centerfold ad December 27th in the big
Japanese magazine Asahi Journal entitled
“Statesmanship. An Open Letter to Prime
Minister Nakasone. ” It said “Statesmanship
puts the higher interests of Japan above the
vested interests of a few. A ban on sperm
whaling has been decided by a 25-1 vote of
the International Whaling Commission in-
cluding four countries who hunted sperm
whales. . . . Does it really serve the interests
of Japan to be the only country in the world
to continue hunting sperm whales in de-
ﬁance of the INTERNATIONAL CON-
SENSUS or does it serve the interests of a
very few?”

The ad names the coastal whaling com-
panies and their powerful friends and paid
lobbyists and continues, “In an atmosphere
of growing tension, a coalition of en-
vironmental organizations have ﬁled suit in
U.S. Federal Court demanding that the U.S.

Commerce and State Departments institute
a 50% cut of Japanese ﬁshing rights in the
U.S. 200-mile economic zone as required by
the Packwood-Magnuson amendment to the
Fishery Conservation Act.” The ad ﬁnished
with an appeal to Prime Minister Nakasone
to withdraw Japan’s objection to the ban on
hunting sperm whales during his January
meeting with President Reagan, but Japan’s
objections still stand. The lawsuit is going
forward with the Japan Whaling Association
joining the legal battle against the friends of
whales.

To show the Government of Japan your
commitment to ending the commercial
whaling that has driven one whale species
after another to the brink of extinction,
please take an active part in the boycott
againstJapan Air Lines. Ask travel agents in
your area to book clients on airlines other

than JAL whenever an alternative is avail-
able.

Fin whale from The Red Data Book of the U.S.S.R.

 

 

 




THE

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

  QUARTERLY

 

P.O. Box 3650 Washington, D.C. 20007 Fall 1981

Vol. 30, No. 3

 

The stage is now set for Congress to act

 

 

Hopes high after lab animal hearings

When Congressman Doug Walgren (D. Pa) opened the hearings on Use
of Animals in Medical Research and Testing on 13 October, he left no
doubt of the importance he attached to the subject. “There is a broad
feeling that the pain and suffering of animals used in scientific research
and testing should be reduced to an absolute minimum,” he said, “I
share that feeling and regard it as a critical consensus about the respect
due to life in all its many forms. This hearing is not simply on the ques-
tion of how many animals are treated and cared for by scientists. We are
exploring the more difficult question of when, and under what cir-
cumstances, the use of live animals is justified.”

Chairman Walgren concluded by naming three goals “. . . to reduce as
much as possible the numbers of animals used in research and testing
by placing emphasis on alternatives to animal use; to give more thought
to the limited circumstances when the use of animals may be justified;
to make sure the proper conditions for treatment and care exist when
animals must be used. It would have been easy for the Subcommittee to
duck this issue. However, as Chairman of the Subcommittee, I believe

inside. . .

 

The great roo row p 2
Whaling good and

bad news p 3, 4, 5, 11
Lab animal hearings p 6, 7
British urge an end to factory
farming

Acid rain kills wildlife p 9
Ivory dealer aids elephants p12

 

 

 

there is no more important subject deserving our attention.”

The Congressional sponsors of the
two principal bills among the seven
pending before the Subcommittee
were first to testify, Congresswoman
Pat Schroeder (D. CO) for HR. 4406
and Congressman Robert Roe (D. NJ)
for HR. 556. Mrs Schroeder urged the
Subcommittee to prevent “the sub
jugation of animals to unnecessary
pain.”

Her bill to amend the Animal Wel-
fare Act would remove the existing
exemption on the actual research; (at
present there are no restrictions on the
way experiments are conducted); re-
quire each institution using vertebrate
animals to establish an animal care
committee to pass on proposed animal
experiments; define pain; end re-
peated painful use of an animal; re-
quire adequate space for exercise; and
establish a committee including animal
welfare members to advise the Secre-
tary of Agriculture in administering the
law. Congressman Roe’s bill would

establish a national center for alter-
native research, provide training, pro-
hibit use of animals if alternatives are
available, and direct no less than 30%
of total NIH research funds to devel-
opment of alternatives.

A case in point

The appalling treatment of monkeys
at the NIH-funded Silver Spring labo—
ratory had received extensive media
coverage just prior to the hearings.
Alex Pacheco, who worked as a volun-
teer at the laboratory and whose com-
plaints resulted in the raid by Mont-
gomery County Police in Maryland,
reported to the Subcommittee on the
case.

Pacheco said, “The animals were
injured and allowed to injure each
other . . . to collapse through not being
fed.” He described “open wounds,
broken bones, fingerless hands, im-
proper bandaging by untrained staff.”

continued page 6

The disgusting treatment of monkeys
at the NIH-funded Silver Spring labo-
ratory has been widely reported. Note
the extreme pressure on the abdo-
men of this crab-eating macaque.
(More pictures on center pages.)

 




 

The great roo row

The US is or was the Australian beef
industry’s best overseas customer—
importing around 300,000 tons of beef
a year. “Is or was” because the scan-
dalous revelation that Australian
“beef” can be kangaroo or horse—or
even buffalo or wild pig—has put a big
question mark over the whole future
of this multimillion dollar trade.

The governments on either side are
deeply worried. The US embargoed
for a time all Australian meat ship-
ments and combed the country to con-
fiscate dubious supplies. The Aus-
tralians for their part have set up a
Royal Commission to investigate the
scandal and to “uncover” the story of
a 4—year cover-up.

At government level the health issue
is paramount. Australian shadow Min-
ister of Health, Mr Roper, has said:
“Kangaroos are being shot at night,
then left all night— while bacteria
grows in them—and then processed
the next day, most probably in unhy-
gienic conditions.”

But if health is a prime concern, so
also is cruelty. The last issue of the In-
formation Report (as it was then
called) described just how kangaroos
meet their death at the hand of man.

   
  

s fresher, long

-4w

The meat stay

er if kangaroos are immobilized with a bullet but not

Now from Australia comes another
horrifying account, this time on film
and made by an Australian wildlife
group.

The film shows kangaroos being
shot at night from the back of a truck
and the truck heedlessly running over
wounded animals. In one scene a
wounded kangaroo jumps a small wire
fence and is chased by two men. One
man grabs the struggling animal by the
tail while the other tries to cut its throat
with a knife. The sound of laughter
greets the final killing.

A director of the Australian Wildlife
Protection Council commented: “If a
person does this for the cameras, it
makes you shudder to think what he
would do unobserved.”

Meanwhile in Britain a health officer
claims that at least 2% of the beef
sold in the UK comes from doubtful
sources—including kangaroo. He says
that at least eight criminal rings are in-
volved and “making huge profits.”

We end by repeating the request we
made in the summer. Please write the
Animal Welfare Institute about any
kangaroo leather products, fur or meat
you may see offered for sale.

   

killed. Barbarous cruelties like this are the real scandal behind the kangaroo meat

cover-up.

 

DDT raises its ugly head again

In the United States it was a big threat to
birds in its day. The peregrine falcon
almost went under. The bald eagle
suffered badly. The threat? DDT. Its day?
In the US the 19605 and early ’705—but
right now in many developing countries.
Zimbabwe, for example, uses 1000 tons
of DDT a year. And news comes that the
fish eagle—a majestic bird two and a half
feet long with a six-foot wing span—is feel-
ing the effects. Last season around Lake

2

Kariba over half the eggs of 40 clutches
examined by game warden Ron Thomson
turned out to be 40% thinner than normal.
This means— as happened with the Ameri-
can bald eagle—that they will not hatch.

Mr Thomson says that “the fish eagle
could cease breeding round Lake Kariba in
less than a decade.” He also says that in
Zimbabwe high levels of accumulated
DDT have been found in human breast
milk, dairy products, beef and corn.

Credit: The Kangaroo Protection Committee

Gull deaths show
all’s not well
with Lake Mono

Modern man lives by manipulating his
environment. In so doing he lives
dangerously. Manipulation means change
and change, as we well know, can spell
disaster for all life. An early warning
system is therefore essential and nature
provides a ready—made one—birds. Their
sensitive organisms respond more quickly
than our own grosser clay to disturbances
irl nature’s balance.

This has long been known of course (the
miner’s canary) and is one reason why
birds are good to have around and why
their conservation is important. In Cali-
fornia this lesson has recently been
underlined—in a very sad manner. Please
read on.

On the doorstep of Los Angeles lies a
fine stretch of freshwater, Lake Mono. But
every year it lies a little lower, stretches a
little less far and loses a little more of its
freshwater freshness. Last spring tragedy
struck.

Virtually all the baby gulls which
hatched on the islands in Lake Mono died.
The gulls feed almost exclusively on brine
shrimp. At a critical time for the fledglings
the shrimp hatch failed and the young gulls
starved. Conservationists and city officials
alike were shocked. Laboratory tests had
suggested that brine shrimp could tolerate
Lake Mono’s steadily rising level of
salinity— rising as the lake itself steadily
sinks.

Did the lab tests lie then? Not exactly.
The season’s second hatch of brine shrimp
survived normally. So why the ' earlier
failure? Because the eggs of the first hatch,
unlike those of the second, spend the
winter at deep lake levels where (so it is
surmised) the water has undergone chem—
ical changes which analysis has not de-
tected.

Which all goes to show that even where
stalwart environmentalists and conscien—
tious scientists are in plentiful supply (as
they surely are in California!) things can
still go dangerously wrong. It has required
the tragic death of thousands of birds to tell
us that the health of Lake Mono is im-
perilled.

Californians have got the message. Con-
gressman Norman D. Shumway (of Cali-
fornia) has sponsored a bill in the House of
Representatives which would establish
Lake Mono as a National Monument and
thereby ensure exemplary management of
“this precious national treasure.”

 

 




 

 

One more heave!

At this year’s meeting of the International Whaling Commission in
Brighton, England, a three-quarters majority of nations voted that
sperm whales no longer be killed and the monstrous “cold” (non-
explosive) harpoon be replaced a year from nOw with a less dastardly
device. That is the good news. The bad news is that three countries have
filed objections (see page 11) and that yet again the bid to put a stop to
all commercial whaling failed. One more heave could do it, though!

Once a tight little club of whaling
and ex-whaling nations, the IWC is
now more and more being “infiltra-
ted” by those whose philosophy has
nothing in common with the view
that whales are simply a resource to
be exploited. This year there were
seven newcomers and six of them
clearly believe that whales have an
intrinsic right to life and “belong” to
all nations as part of our common
heritage. (The seventh nation, China,
neither spoke nor voted—“this year
we learn”.)

Thanks to these conservationist re-
inforcements—with Uruguay, India
and Jamaica adding passion and elo-
quence to the fire-power of their
votes—plus some very astute tactics
by the more seasoned campaigners,
the Japanese were outgunned and
also, for once, outmanoeuvred. On
the crucial sperm-whale vote the
Japanese “bloc” disintegrated.

As always at the IWC, though, the
victory had a price tag attached to it.
Certain whaling nations asked for,
and got, more whales in their next
year’s quota than the scientific com-
mittee had recommended. Peru was
given extra Bryde’s whales, Iceland
and Spain extra fin whales, and even
Greenland, via Denmark, was again
allotted 10 humpbacks despite land-
ing 13 last year and despite the per-
ilous state of the stock.

Least deserving were perhaps the
Spaniards. They may have been
helped by the paltry scientific data
for their area, but more than one-
third of their catch last year con-
sisted of undersized whales. Not only
had they flagrantly broken lWC rules
but as the US Commissioner, Tom
Garrett, pointed out, “Anyone who is
familiar with the history of whaling
knows that as the stocks approached
collapse the percentage of under-
sized whales in the catch increased
dramatically.”

Rising over the past four years from
5% to 20% to 29% to 35%, the in-
crease in the Spanish catch of “baby
fins” has certainly been dramatic.
And with Portugal, still outside the
IWC, also taking whales, the north
Atlantic stock could be in deep
trouble.

As for the Japanese the bitter pill
they were forced to swallow was
coated with sugar to help it down.
They were given 1030 more minke
whales than last year and a little bit
of hope that a sperm-whale hunt may
still be permitted in the north Pacific.
The scientific committee will meet
next March to assess Japan’s claim
that stocks in the area are sufficient
to allow a quota. But a three-quarters
majority is now needed to overturn
the new zero ruling.

Golden opinions

One entirely satisfactory aspect of
this year’s meeting was the perform-
ance of the United States. Whereas in
recent years the US has been vacillat-
ing and even devious, the head of
delegation, Tom Garrett, was force-
ful and straightforward, winning
golden opinions from conservation-
ists: While Garrett’s lifelong dedica-
tion to the saving of whales more or
less guaranteed his strong stand, he
was undoubtedly helped by the ab-
sence this year of an issue which has
gravely impaired US effectiveness in
the past—that of Eskimos versus
bowheads.

However the issue has not gone
away; it has just been put to sleep
until the 1983 meeting, by which
time much research must have been
accomplished and hard thinking
done to ensure the survival of one of
the world’s most endangered
cetaceans.

 

It is time to recognize the errors of
the past. Available information is
inadequate to protect the whales
while commercial whaling con-
tinues, and it is for this reason as
well as others that the United
States has proposed an indefinite
moratorium on commercial whal-
ing. I urge you to join with us and
other people throughout the world
to secure the protection of these
magnificent creatures and wish
you success in your important

work. Q M.

An extract from President Reagan’s
message to the IWC.

 

 

 

 

 

Excerpts from Statement by
Tom Garrett, Acting US Com-
missioner to the International
Whaling Commission, before
the House Subcommittee on
Human Rights, 22 September
1981.

Prior to the 1981 Brighton meeting,

an analysis presented by Greenpeace
showed that the quantity of whale meat

Do ont

 

Head of US deleg

exported to Japan had remained nearly
constant for the years 1979 and 1980,
at around 4,000 tons per year. This ap-
peared to corroborate reports that the
Spanish whalers were exceeding their
1 980 maximum of240 whales.

Although Spain denied killing in ex-
cess of the 1980 quota, they did release
statistics showing a rapid rise in the
percentage of undersized whales taken,
reaching almost one third of the total
1980 catch.

The Scientific Committee produced
three conflicting quota recommenda-
tions for this population for the 1982
quota.- one for zero, one for 137 (the
average take for the period 1968— 77),
and a third for 210 animals. The
Spanish Commissioner requested 240
whales. Eventually a quota of 210 fin
whales was adopted. All American sci—
entists present believed that the increas-
ing kill of immature animals may reflect
a lack of enough mature animals to
make up the quota and might indicate
changes in population structure similar
to those preceding the collapse of the
Antarctic and the North Pacific fin
whale stocks. We should continue to
monitor this situation carefully.

Humane killing

Humane killing was a major substan-
tive concern during the Brighton meet-

continued page 4

3

 

 




 

Friends of the whale

 

Congressmen Pete McCloskey and Don Bonker, stalwart supporters
of the whale, confer at the IWC meeting in Brighton, England.

Garrett- continued

ing. After much discussion, the IWC
agreed to accept a ban on the use of
non-explosive harpoons for minke
whales beginning with the 1982-83
pelagic season and 1983 coastal sea-
son. However, any of the affected
countries may file an objection and we
must have a course of action in mind to
meet this possibility. The other whaling
nations concerned may be looking to
the Japanese to provide the technology
needed for compliance. There is a gen-
eral feeling that the Japanese can
develop an efficient explosive harpoon
for minke whales which will not destroy
a large amount of meat.

The reaction of Japan and other
whaling nations to the events at Brigh-
ton depends in some measure on what
we do. Japan, in particular, may not
want to risk losing the fish it catches in
the eastern Bering Sea and Gulf of
Alaska for a few hundred sperm
whales.

I would expect Japan to initiate dis-

 

 

Credit- John Domont

cussions soon with conservationist
countries, particularly with the United
States, about the future of whaling. If
we are prepared to bargain at high
levels of government, it may be possible
to lay the groundwork this year for a
phaseout of commercial whaling.

This year worldwide sentiment
against whaling was felt as never before
in the Commission. At the same time,
with concern over juridical zones in-
truding increasingly into the policies of
the various nations, the future of whales
may yet become hostage to “larger
concerns.” If this is a time of hope for
bringing commercial whaling to a close,
it is also a time of considerable peril.

I believe that our nation will stand
firm on our policy of opposition to com-
mercial whaling, enunciated in the
President’s letter to the 1981 [WC
meeting. I believe that many of the
other governments will stand by us and
that together we will prove equal to the

 

challenge.

   

Greenpeace charge

Greenpeace has charged that last No-
vember in Japan a baby humpback was
hacked to death for its meat. From a pho-
tograph of the remains, whale biologist
Robert Brownell was able to verify the
species. Greenpeace has protested strong-
ly to the Japanese; the highly endangered
humpback has been officially protected by
the IWC since 1966.

Justice catches up

On 19 July 1978 a crew member on
board the purse seiner Repulse amused
himself by shooting repeatedly at a hump-
back whale. Two and a half years later
justice caught up. Two men from the US
Forest Service had spotted the outrage
and reported it. On 13 February 1981 in
Anchorage a federal judge fined the
owners and operators of the boat a hefty
$15,000 for a “heedless and senseless”

violation of the Marine Mammal Protection
Act.

Martita dances

From The New Haven Register, 9 August

Martita Goshen, who has toured the
world on behalf of the Animal Welfare In-
stitute and the Cousteau Society, creates
dances in homage to near-extinct wild-
life. Her hope is to influence mankind in
the preservation of endangered species.
And well she might, judging by the effec-
tiveness of her choreography.

Especially remarkable was her depiction
of a wolf’ s frantic flight in a wilderness in-
vaded by hunters safely packaged in
planes. Transversing the enormous stage
in high-speed runs, she evoked the terror
of the helpless animal who is mercilessly
shot down.

Tragic, too, was the fate of a harpooned
whale. Projecting an uncanny illusion of
the immensity of oceanic space, the dancer
poignantly enacted the whale’s slow expi-
ration as explosive harpoons ripped its
interior.

Japanese Whalers at the Buddhist Temple

The chief priest, wearing a canary-
yellow robe and with his head shaved,
began praying. “Release their souls from
agony. Let them go over to the Other Side
and become Buddhas.” Then he and the
other priests chanted, on and on, hyp-
notically. . .

Finally the chief priest delivered a short
homily: “I am pleased that you have
chosen our temple for this service. I used
to eat whale meat in the army. And so I
feel very close to whales.” The reference to

4

whales was not out of place, since this
service was attended by employees of
Japan’s largest whaling company. The
souls they prayed for were those of the
whales they had killed. . .

Had the service been an act of genuine
Buddhist piety and not a sham, the
whalers and company officials would have
repented of their innumerable violations of
the first Buddhist precept of not killing,
they would have prayed to Kannon, the
bodhisattva of compassion, for forgive-

ness; and they would have pledged to
cease the further slaughter of innocent
whales. . .

But of course none of this took place. As
for the Buddhist priests who lent them-
selves and their temple to this Charade,
motivated no doubt by visions of a large
donation from the whaling company, their
actions speak eloquently of the fallen state
of Japanese Buddhism today.

Extracts from To Cherish a Life by Roshi
Philip Kapleau.

 

 




 

 

 

“It takes outlaws to stop outlaws”

Sea Shepherd II, the whale conservation
vessel, entered Siberian waters last Au-
gust—and came out again with a Soviet
“escort” and photographs that brand the
Russians as liars to the IWC. Pleading the
subsistence needs of Siberian aborigines,
the Soviets have for many years been
granted an annual quota of around 200
gray whales “exclusively for native use.”
But whale conservationists have for some
time had nasty suspicions—which have
now turned out to be nasty facts. In the
following article Eric Schwartz, one of the
crew of Sea Shepherd II, explains.
“Sometimes it takes outlaws to stop out-
laws”, says conservation activist, Paul Wat-
son. Long dissatisfied with the traditional
weapon of petitions and protests, Watson
was the man responsible, as skipper of Sea
Shepherd, for the ramming and sinking of
the notorious pirate Whaler, Sierra. Now he
has turned his sights on the Russians.

Sea Shepherd II, skippered by Watson
and with an international crew of 8 women
and 21 men, left Glasgow, Scotland, last
April. Four months and 14,500 miles later
this ex-North Sea fishing trawler entered
Russian waters west of Alaska. The aim?
To stop the Soviet killing of the gray
whale. The plan called for documenting il-
licit Russian operations and, if possible,

Here in Loren, Siberia, slaughtered gray whales are landed and women
carve up the meat. On a hill above stands the mink farm. Inset: Watson

finding the commercial whaleship
Zevezdny and putting her out of action.

Undetected, or at least undeterred at the
start, Watson and crew searched briefly for
the Zevezdny. Unable to find her they then
steamed to the small Russian port of
Loren. Here, Watson suspected, the Rus-
sians slaughtered the whales and fed them
to minks on nearby farms.

Into a bay teeming with gray whales
Watson and two other crew members
were lowered, striking out for the shore in
a small rubber boat. On arrival they found
women carving whale meat, while on a hill
above stood a mink farm within a con-
veyor belt’s reach of the slaughtering area.

Soldiers, assuming they were Russian,
stood casually on the beach as Watson and
company photographed the operation.
Watching them drift to within 15 feet of the
shore, the soldiers began to wave, motion-
ing them to land. They were within easy
shouting or shooting distance and Watson
jovially, in English, asked them what they
wanted.

Startled by the revelation that the crew
was not Russian, the soldiers ran—the
three raced back to the ship— and events
began rapidly unfolding:

—The lookout in the crow’s nest spotted
a helicopter gunship in the distance.

 

 

and two companions, cam eras at the ready, head for the shore.

Credit.- Sea Shepherd Conservation Society, Los Angeles, CA

   

—Word reached the ship over the ham
radio that the Kremlin had sent a diplo-
matic note to the American embassy in
Moscow, informing them that the Sea
Shepherd crew would be arrested for
espionage. The American State Depart-
ment immediately declared that they were
maintaining an “observer’s status.”

— Another helicopter arrived.

—A ship appeared in the radar and sped
toward the Sea Shepherd. The captain
pronounced it a warship capable of doing
three times the Sea Shepherd’s speed, and
decided to turn back toward the border.

Amid diving helicopters and a maneu-
vering warship a thick Russian accent
came through the radio: “Sea Shepherd!
Stop immediately!”

Saved by a whale

“Stop killing whales!” shouted back Wat-
son, and as the crew looked toward the
Russians and prepared for the worst, a
whale surfaced between the two ships.
It swam steadily between them, as if
drawing with its body the line of a
truce.

Almost immediately the Russians stop-
ped dead in the water. They seemed un-
certain what to do next. They dropped
back further. The helicopters disappeared.
The Sea Shepherd re-entered American
waters.

Two additional forays were made into
Siberia in search of the Zevezdny. On the
third mission two warships blocked the Sea
Shepherd’s path; running short of fuel and
provisions, Captain Paul Watson decided
to call it quits.

Watson calls the mission “80% success-
ful” and plans to take the photographic
proof of the Russian operation to the in-
fractions committee of the IWC.

“If this is true,” said Tom Garrett, head
of the US delegation to the IWC, when the
Soviet operation was described to him, “it
certainly makes liars out of the Russians.”
Garrett said that when the IWC meets next
summer in England the US will ask that
international observers be allowed to visit
that Siberian area.

“Two months before this mission,” said
Watson, “no one knew for certain that the
Russians were hunting gray whales com~
mercially. Now the world knows, and if
international pressure is brought to bear
the IWC will respond and the Russians will
be forced to stop.”

Finding no shortage of challenges, Wat-
son and his Sea Shepherd crew will plow
on. In February the ship will reach lki
island, Japan, and confront Japanese
fishermen who spear and club dolphins to
death annually.

 




 

 

Lab animal hearing— continued

He presented photographic evi-
dence and answered many ques-
tions by different members of the
Subcommittee.

The NIH grant has now been
suspended following an extensive
investigation by NIH. Dr William
Raub, Associate Director, testified
following Pacheco. He stated that
NIH had a written assurance from
the Institute for Behavioral Re-
search that it was complying with
NIH guidelines, but admitted that
there is “no mandatory site visit”
and “no regular site visit” by NIH.
However, site visits two and three
years ago on research applications
from the laboratory indicated that

Photo: Alex Pacheco

Silver Spring laboratory. This
soiled bandage (when was it last
changed?) has been chewed away
to reveal a blood-stained sore.
Now fully exposed to a filthy en-
vironment, the wound is all too
likely to fester.

the facility was “satisfactory.” The
Chairman asked, “How many labo-
ratories are under your close sur-
veillance nationwide?” Dr Raub
answered that NIH has assurances
from 650 laboratories which it funds
throughout the country and that
“only a handful” had been found
not to be in compliance.

The Chairman asked whether the
makeup of IBR’s Animal Care
Committee raised any eyebrows.
“Do they make any representation

6

that they will fulfill their duty.” He
further asked, “How non-involved,
how disinterested do your own
guidelines require a committee to
be?” Congressman Bob Shaman-
sky (D. OH) commented that the
“paper looked good” and charac-
terized current NIH responsibility
for animals used in research it fi-
nanced as “a non-system hiding
behind a paper curtain.” Asked by
the Chairman, “How do you define
and quantify suffering of animals”
and what the NIH criteria for undue
suffering were, Dr Raub passed the
question to Dr Joe Held, D.V.M. of
NIH, who said “In the bulk of bio-
medical research, there is no pain or
suffering” and characterized assess-
ment of suffering as “almost entirely
subjective.”

Following the NIH testimony, the
Department of Agriculture re-
quested that there be no interroga-
tion concerning the Silver Spring
case because “the Department be-
came a party to proceedings in
court.” Thus the Department’s total
failure to rectify the appalling
abuses in the laboratory was not
examined at the hearing.

Animal welfare testimony

Next to testify were representa-
tives from animal welfare groups
and research bodies. Nearly half the
animal welfare spokesmen were
trained scientists; not one of the re-
searchers was associated with any
humane group.

“Under present circumstances a research scientist can do whatever he or
she wants to do to an animal, reaardless of whether or not it is likely to
cause great pain and suffering. . . . The cost of not passing this legislation
is continued abuse of animals and widespread suffering in laboratories

and research facilities.”

Dr Michael Fox

 

 

Dr Jay Glass of the University of
Pittsburgh School of Medicine
stated: “Individual researchers, be
they students or full professors,
function with complete freedom to
treat their animals as they see fit.
Upon whose shoulders then falls
the responsibility for ensuring
humane treatment of research ani-
mals? The answer is the most
beleaguered person at a research
institution, the veterinarian. The
vet’s primary job is to keep up a
constant supply of cats, dogs, mon-
keys, etc. for the scientists. The MD.
or PhD. superstars are breathing
down his neck daily to keep the
supply of animals coming. He has
little time to monitor how these
animals are actually used. In the
hierarchy of a medical school, the
vet is low man on the totem pole.
To challenge a faculty scientist
bringing in a million dollars in
research funds would most prob-
ably cost the vet his job.”

Dr Michael Fox, Director of the
Institute for the Study of Animal
Problems, said: “We enthusiastically
endorse the provisions of HR.
4406” as a bill which “strives to
strike an acceptable balance be-

xkx'x -‘&Q." N

Silver Spring laboratory. The contents of the one and only refrigerator

for medicines and “fresh” fruit (rotting apples).

Photo: Alex Pacheco

 

tween the needs of scientific
research and the concerns of the
mainstream animal welfare move-
ment.”

Dr Andrew Rowan, on behalf of
the Scientists Group for the Reform
of Animal Experiments, pointed out
that current regulations requiring
tests on animals are “not good
science.” He called for incentives to
encourage the development of
non-animal tests. The call was
echoed by Congressman Fred Rich-
mond, long-time champion of alter-
natives legislation. He urged that
“whenever possible the federal
government develop and use tests
that do not use live animals.”

Donald Barnes, who publicized
cruel government experiments, was
fired, then reinstated, then quit,
emphasized that only about 50% of
experiments on animals are pub-
lished in scientific journals.

Nancy Payton, speaking for the
Massachusetts S.P.C.A. in support
of HR. 4406, cited laws in Den-
mark, England, Norway, Sweden,
Switzerland, France, West Ger-
many, The Netherlands, Italy, Fin-
land, and Luxembourg regulating
animal experiments. She recom-
mended addition Of two members
of the public with animal welfare
qualifications to the institutional
animal care committees required
under HR. 4406 to review proto-
cols for experiments on animals.

Henry Spira, Whose successful
coalition against the Draize test
brought about almost $2 million of
funding from commercial concerns
for research to d€V€lOp alternatives,
testified: “There is increasing con-
cern about experiments involving
deprivation, learned helplessness,
electric shock, radiation, and
aggression. These are being per-
ceived as massive public works pro-
grams for dull PhDS.

“After the public had found out
what was happenmg at the Institute
for Behavioral _€search, in the
Congress’ backyard, the NIH cut off

the funding within the month. This
needs to become the pattern. Con-
gress appropriates the funds and
must demand accountability from
the funding agencies.”

Spira proposed that the General
Accounting Office investigate
behavioral research on animals; that
the “National Toxicology Program
and all other regulatory bodies
immediately organize high-level
task forces to develop and validate
batteries of non-animal systems to
replace current animal tests;” that
NIH promote efforts to replace
animals or reduce their use follow-
ing the patterns already established
with the Diabetes Committee (Pub-
lic Law 93-354) and nutrition
research.

Congressman Vin Weber (R.,
Minn.) asked if a reduction in the
numbers of animals used was
occurring. Mr Spira cited the Octo-
ber 1981 issue of MD magazine,
which states that in 1958 20 million
animals were used; in 1978 the
number had risen to 90 million. An
increase in income for Charles
River Laboratories was given as
34%.

Society for Animal Protective
Legislation testimony presented by
Christine Stevens cited the problem
of secrecy. The Subcommittee was
supplied with “a copy of a report
which NIH itself prepared and then
suppressed. it is a substantial
210-page publication prepared at
public expense. It was an objective
study to which all interested parties
were able to contribute, but NIH did
not wish the Congress to have this
information.”

Mrs Stevens, urging the Sub-
committee to authorize funding for
development of alternatives, said:
“. . . the world’s biggest breeder of
mice, Charles River Laboratories,
has a $6.4 million government con-
tract, 1980-1983 to operate a ‘Pri-
mary Genetic Center for Rodents
in Biocontaminant Environments.’
This is just one single contract paid

from tax funds to a company which
is making fat profits from extensive
sales to non-government enter-
prises. In contrast, no tax funds at
all have been allocated for the spe-
cific purpose of replacing animals in

tests or reducing the numbers re-

quired, and this despite the fact that
those which have been developed
are far less costly in both money
and time.”

Citing the AWI paperback book,
Physical and Mental Suffering of
Experimental Animals, A Review of
Scientific Literature from
1975-1978, copies of which were
supplied to each Subcommittee
member, she also referred to a
paper from the August 1981 issue
of Experimental Neurology, which
described cats placed in stereotaxic
instruments after extensive surgical
interventions. General anesthesia
was discontinued, and the animals
were paralyzed with only local anes-
thetic on the wounds, then seizures
were induced by blowing up bal-

report them to the authorities
without fear of losing their jobs or
prejudicing their advancement, a
provision be added making the re-
porting of animal mistreatment
mandatory.

Dr Ernst Knobil, representing the
Federation of American Societies
for Experimental Biology, and Dr
Edward Melby, speaking for the
Association for Biomedical Re-
search, expressed support for HR.
220 which would authorize $12
million to promote the develop-
ment of non-animal methods of
research, experimentation and test-
ing. But Dr Gerald Levey, spokes-
man for the American Association
of Medical Colleges, opposed it,
saying “Although the trail may be
obscured, the ‘alternative methods’
money will surely be found by
reducing NIH program funds.”

The American Psychological
Association represented by Dr
Perrie Adams urged postponement
of any action on the pending bills.

Silver Spring laboratory. Self-mutilation of a deafferented limb; this
macaque, in frustration, has bitten off its toes. What protection now for
the mutilated limb? Only the tattered remnants of a dirty bandage.

loons which had been inserted in
their stomachs. The animals could
not move or cry out to show pain or
fear.

To protect against suffering
which cannot be detected, the
following amendment to HR. 4406
was suggested: “If local anesthetics
are used, the animal must be able to
behaviorally demonstrate the pres-
ence of pain (paralytics may not be
present)”

Congressman Judd Gregg (R.,
NH) asked for suggestions for
amendments to HR. 4406 and
made the valuable suggestion that,
instead of merely authorizing per-
sonnel who observed abuses to

Asked by Minority Counsel how
many cases had come before the
APA’s ethics committee, Adams
indicated only two or three in-
stances in the three years since the
committee was formed. To an in-
quiry about follow-up action he
said: “There was not enough evi-
dence to pursue” in any of the
cases, so activity by the Association
was confined to “correspondence
back to the person who referred it
to us.” Counsel noted that in the
Silver Spring case “You couldn’t
say you couldn’t substantiate the
evidence.” The Chairman said he
would look forward to the Associa-
tion’s proceedings in the case.

Photo: Alex Pacheco

 

 




 

British MPs want an end to factory farming

No more hens in battery cages, no more sows in close confinement, no more
calves in crated stalls. After examining from every angle the thorny issue of
animal welfare in factory farming, this is what an all-party committee of British
MP5 is demanding for Britain (and for Europe). Not immediately but soon. And
with a combination of new laws and financial suasions to bring it about.

Over many months the MP5 visited different farms practising different systems,
and interrogated both the “industry” and welfare bodies. In July came their report.
It is a radical document. Sharply critical of intensive practices, it endorses a great
many of the proposals championed by animal campaigners.

Hens: The report calls for battery cages
to be phased out over, say, a 5-year period.
Thereafter no battery eggs should be pro-
duced and imports of such eggs should be
banned. In the meantime the number of
birds in each 20” x 18” cage (a widely
used size) should be cut from the present
four, five, and even six to three. A new law
should prohibit beak-trimming except as “a
last resort” and then only by a skilled
operator.

Contrary to popular belief and farmers’
propaganda “the cost of producing eggs in

 

Today animal welfare is receiv-
ing more attention, but we have a
feeling that it is still regarded as a
tiresome complication engen-
dered by vocal sentimentalists
who need to be placated at mini-
mum cost to producers’ profits.
To the extent that this is true, it is
high time for a change of attitude.

 

strawyards or on deep litter or wire-mesh
floors would be only some 20% more than
in normal 5-bird cages.” This translates to
about 121/296 extra in the shops— hardly a
decisive obstacle to change, especially in
view of a Gallup Poll finding that 63% of
British women would be prepared to pay
more for non-battery eggs.

A switch to a totally free-range system
was not recommended, though. Besides
costing appreciably more, it would eat up a
great deal of land—“more than the county
of Berkshire.”

Pigs: The MP5 found that while pig
systems are many, none is a clear—cut win-
ner on welfare grounds. All the same “we

 

Taxation policy should avoid
encouraging undesirable
methods of husbandry. Grants
and other financial incentives
should be used positively to en-
courage better methods.

 

cannot bring ourselves to regard close con-
finement of sows by stalls or tethers
throughout their pregnancies—that is, for
most of their adult lives— with anything but
distaste.” The report therefore urges that
“financial grants be so directed as to pro-
vide positive support to producers using

8

the ‘small-group’ system; they should not
be given to those using close-confinement
methods.”

Pigs housed indoors should always have
access to a bedded area and should not be

 

Ministerial and official thinking
should give more weight to
animal welfare than seems to
have been the case hitherto.

 

kept in total darkness. Castration should
be forbidden and tail-docking discouraged.
The welfare aspect of very early weaning
(nearly 40% of piglets are weaned at
under 4 weeks old) should be thoroughly
investigated. Sows in close confinement
should be given some plaything to relieve
frustration and boredom, “even if it is no
more than a few bits of straw, a chain or an
old motor tyre.”

Calves: For veal calves the MP5 say
that “the evidence is overwhelmingly in
favor of the loose-yard system: not only
was it advocated by the welfare organiza-
tions and the vets, but despite some reser-
vations in their oral evidence the Farmers’
Union told us unequivocally in writing that

 

Society has a duty to see that
undue suffering is not caused to
animals, and we cannot accept
that that duty should be set aside
in order that food may be pro-
duced more cheaply. Where un-
acceptable suffering can be elim-
inated only at extra cost, that cost
should be borne or the product
foregone.

 

they ‘would actively advocate an adapta-
tion to this system in the future. . . .’ No
grants of any kind should henceforth be
made to facilitate crated production.”

In effect this section of the report
amounts to a ringing declaration in support
of Volac, the company which has pio-
neered the loose-yard system in Britain
and which sells its produce under the
brand name Quantock Veal. The essential
features of the system are that the calves
are housed in groups of up to 40 in straw-
yards, protected by naturally ventilated
buildings, with access at all times to liquid
feed and water and freedom to consume

roughage. (For a picture of Quantock
calves in their spacious home, see the
Spring 1981 issue of the AWI Information
Report.)

The MP3 also want “labelling which
makes clear the method of production”
and a ban on exclusively liquid feed for
calves.

There is inevitably a European dimen-
sion to this whole issue. As a member of
the European Economic Community, Brit-
ain is committed to “the freedom of move-
ment of goods.” This means that Britain
cannot forbid the import from EEC coun-
tries of, for example, battery eggs, what-
ever its own internal legislation on the
matter. The MP5’ report says, though:
“This does not mean that the UK Govern-
ment and producers should hang back or
drag their feet; on the contrary we think

 

The authorities should be ready
to prosecute not only cases of
wilful or persistent disregard of
the law but also cases of neglect
or carelessness in which exem-
plary consequences would have a
useful deterrent effect.

 

that they should give a strong and sus-
tained lead towards eliminating undesir-
able practices and achieving the highest
attainable standards of welfare.”

As it happens there is a golden oppor-
tunity for giving just such a lead right now.
During the final months of this year Brit-
ain’s Minister of Agriculture, Peter Walker,
is also the chairman of the EEC Council of
Agriculture Ministers. This gives him the
authority to write the ministers’ agenda. It
is a rare chance to exert influence.

Statements in bold type are taken from
the House of Commons Agriculture Com-
mittee’s report on Animal Welfare in
Poultry, Pig and Veal Calf Production.

Meanwhile
in the US . . .

The US Department of Agriculture is
spending $380,000 on a 2-year study of
farm animal care. The study is primed by
the growing awareness that animal welfare
and productivity are very closely linked. It
is widely acknowledged that stress can
lead to slower growth, loss of weight and
greater proneness to disease.

Research will focus on intensively raised
poultry, veal calves and pigs. One of the
centers of research is the University of Min-
nesota where behavior of sows in and out
of farrowing crates will be investigated.

 

 




 

 

The rain of death

That “gentle rain from heaven” of
which Shakespeare spoke is not
what it used to be. Over large tracts
of Earth the rain that rains is acid
rain, sulphur dioxide pumped into
the atmosphere by coal-fired
power stations and descending
again as a most ungentle part of
normal rainfall.

Under this rain of death crops
fail, trees wither, and life in river
and lake and pond slowly chokes.
Moreover the acid that rains on
one country often originates in
another. The “fall—out” thus
transcends domestic politics.

In Europe the Swedes, sourly aware
that foreign industry is much to blame
for the sad state of their once so fish-
rich lakes and streams, are hosting an

Almost everything is down. Every-
thing. Acid rain affects the birds
that feed on fish, the fur-bearing
animals that feed on fish. The way
I look at it, everything in nature is
dependent on food, and when you
reduce the food supply for those
birds and animals, it affects other,
birds and animals that aren't
directly dependent on aquatic in~
sects and fish.

The snowshoe rabbit is down,
the fox is way down, deer are
down, way down, the bobcat is
down, the raccoon is down. Even
the porcupine is disappearing.
Bear is fairly plentiful but of
course a bear is like a pig. It will
eat an yth ing from bark to garbage.
Frogs and crayfish. are. way. down..-

' Kingﬁsher, osprey, gulls, theyifre,
all down. The loan ‘ has disarm '
peared. . . . _ . ; .1 b

You don’t see fish jump any
more. There are no fish to jump,
and even if there were, there’dhe :
no insects to make them jump. It
gets to a point where you’re going
to have to play God again and start"

- all over by making the environ-
‘ment comfortable for the littlest"
.inSect. . _ ,
[This statement comes from Bill Mar
lean, forest ranger for 33 years in the
, Western Adirondacks in upper state”.
New. York. He is quoted in the article
An American Tragedy by Rebert H "
11,30er in Sports Illustrated, 21 Septem~
'7ber7198‘1. ‘ ' , '

international conference on acid rain
next spring. On the American conti-
nent a Canadian government study
complains that Canada, especially the
provinces of Ontario and Quebec, is
importing 27.5 million tons of sulphur
dioxide a year from its southern
neighbour, and that before the century
is out 48,000 lakes north of the border
may die.

The United States is also concerned.
And the concern is not just diplomatic.
In many northern and northeastern
States rainfall is 40 times more acid
than it should be. In the Ohio Valley
crops are being seriously damaged
while in the Adirondack Mountains
half the high-altitude lakes no longer
have fish and many of the plants have
died too.

Earlier this year a joint US-Canada
government work group published an
“interim report” on the destructive
effects of acid rain. The Washington-
based Environmental Defense Fund
has issued its own summary of this
report and has pointed out that “entire
ecosystems are threatened.” The Fund
calls for “action now to curtail sulphur
dioxide emissions.”

Birds suffer too

Not only are fish the most promi-
nent victims of acid rain but restocking
may well be impossible. Fresh-water
fish populations are often genetically
distinct, having adapted to local condi-
tions. Even if acid levels decline,
replacements may not survive. And
certainly they will not survive if acid
rain has expelled essential elements
from the water. The case for “action
now” is therefore a very strong one. Ir-
reversibility, no less than extinction, is
forever!

As well as fish, many frogs, toads
and salamanders also find reproduc-
tion impossible in acid waters. The
mammals and birds which feed on fish
and amphibians are thus hit too.
Among vulnerable mammals are
mink, otter and muskrat. Among vul-
nerable birds are many varieties of
duck and merganser, the great blue
heron, the belted kingfisher and the
common loon (which is now very
rare).

Acid rain kills not only by preventing

reproduction but also by releasing tox-
ic metals buried in the soil of lake or
fOrest. In northern Germany alumi-
num salts, released in this way, are
poisoning the roots of trees. A beech
forest there is considered to be
doomed and a spruce forest unlikely
to survive.

The US National Commission on
Air Quality says that a 40% cut in sul-
phur dioxide emissions—equivalent
to 7 million tons a year—could be
achieved by 1990 and would put less
than 2% on consumers’ bills. That’s
surely a tiny price to pay for so great a
gain!

For further information on the destructive
effects of acid rain, write to: Environmental
Defense Fund, 1525 18th Street, NW,
Washington, DC 20036.

 

 

ﬂ 6 U‘INQ

Voices of the Icon

The song of the loon is a many-
splendored thing: yodel, hoot wail,
tremolo and combinations thereof. The
loon delights in solos, loves duets and
hugely enjoys chorusing with his own kind
and even with other kinds (coyotes, for ex-
ample). Voices of the Loon captures it all
on record, price $9.00 post free from Na-
tional Audubon Society, 950 Third
Avenue, New York, NY 10022 or from
North American Loon Fund, Meredith, NH
03253. Profits will go to management of
the common loon plus research and edu-
cation.

 

The common loon is now very rare.

Credit.- “Voices of the Loon”, William Barklow, 1980

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

Keep coyotes away with big animals. . .

Poisons, traps, guns—these are the
time- honored weapons for protecting
sheep from coyotes and dogs. But the
weapons, besides being cruel, are
neither selective nor effective and
today they are being sharply ques-
tioned not just by softhearted animal
lovers but by hardheaded sheep farm-
ers. Surely there must be a better
way?

Yes, there is—large guardian animals
living with the flock. George Heinlein, a
professor of animal science at the Uni-
versity of Delaware, champions the don-
key. He has been rearing donkeys with his
goat herd since 1957 and maintains they
need less training than dogs and are more
trustworthy. Another champion of don-
keys is sheep farmer Tim Morris of Reister-
town, Maryland. He has 75 donkeys
guarding his 2000 ewes. “Since we’ve had
the donkeys in the field I don’t think we’ve
lost a single ewe,” he says—~ adding that of
the 75 maybe seven or eight, “the most
aggressive ones,” do all the protecting.

Meanwhile in Morton, Wyoming, sheep
farmers John and Betty Lye are seeking
help from an unlikely animal—the South
American llama. This bold experiment be-
gan last year. Keen-sighted and inquisitive,

the llamas, when in the right place, proved
adept at scaring off marauding coyotes.
They simply spat and the coyotes
vanished.

But llamas and sheep did not easily mix,
probably because they had not been
reared together. So there were still some
losses. This year a baby llama was raised
with the new-born lambs. During the sum-
mer it grazed alongside the sheep and the
coyotes kept their distance!

. . . or a little
conditioning!

An entirely different means of curbing
coyote predation is by what the psycholo-
gists call “taste aversion conditioning.” In
essence this consists of baiting dead sheep
with some mildly toxic compound, so giv-
ing the sheep-devouring coyotes a dis-
agreeable emetic and (it is hoped) a strong
disinclination to touch mutton again.

Some very interesting field work along
these lines has recently been done in
California— under the direction of the
Department of Psychology, California
State College, San Bernardino. The com-

RANCHER SPEAKS our ON 1080

The whole problem with 1080 is
that a carcass cannot be treated with
this poison so that it will kill only
coyotes. It kills most of our meat-eat-
ing mammals and a lot of birds. Right
now in Wyoming we are losing a lot of
wildlife habitat to mineral develop-
ment. We sure don’t need to impact
our wildlife further with poison.

If poison had ever solved any prob-
lems there might be some argument.

But it hasn’t. Even when several
kinds of predator poisons were being
used, with hardly any restrictions,
sheep ranchers continued to go out
of business and sheep numbers went
downhill. Poison isn’t going to solve
a lot of economic problems that
must be solved if the sheep industry
is to make a comeback.

Along with other predators, coy-
otes can be a real asset to help con-

 

Periodical pleasures

Those long winter evenings will be here
before you know it. You might consider
turning off your television set and settling
down with “Humpback Whales”, A Cata-
logue of Individuals Identified by Fluke
Photographs. The individuals are, I hasten
to add, whales, and there are 108 pages of
photographs of flukes (with 10 photo-
graphs to a page) for you to study, restudy
and identify. There is an index at the back
for you to either check your scores or just
peek a little. This is the second edition (I’m
just getting round to it) and is published by
the College of the Atlantic, Bar Harbor,
ME 04609. The price is $10.00.

For sheer professionalism, it would be
hard to beat, or even match, The National
Fisherman, a monthly (semi-monthly in

10

by John Gleiber

April) magazine published by Journal Pub-
lications of 21 Elm Street, Camden, ME
04843 at $1.50 per copy. It is invaluable
for the clear picture it presents as to just
what is going on in the fishing industry
today. For example, it kept us current on
the ways the tuna industry coped with
regulations regarding seining and showed
that the industry, far from collapsing into
economic ruin, as their spokesmen direly
predicted, actually flourished.

The Orion Nature Book Review of which
we wrote so glowingly such a short time
ago ceased publication with the October
issue. Associate Editor Aina Niemela (a
name to turn the hair of a copy editor
snow white) writes “Costs do not permit
us to continue the publication.” Alas!

pound used was lithium chloride and from
fairly extensive trials it seems clear that the
method works. Although sheep killings did
not drop to zero (a conditioned aversion to
sheep carcasses may not always carry over
to live animals), they were very signifi-
cantly down on former levels. The case for
“aversion therapy” is a strong one— made
all the stronger by the very similar findings
of a recent 3-year study in Saskatchewan,
once again using lithium chloride.

The Californian psychologists make the
telling point that sheep farmers often un-
wittingly encourage coyote predation.
They go onto say, though, that this bad
habit can easily be turned to good account.
“It is a common practice for sheep herders
to discard their dead sheep in close prox-
imity to their herds, thereby ‘setting a table’
for roaming coyotes and ensuring that they
acquire a taste for mutton. It is our conten—
tion that this harmful practice can easily be
turned to the advantage of the sheep farm-
er by simply injecting the discarded car-
casses with a solution of lithium chloride.”

It is a solution which works!

References: Behavioral Biology 20,
91—95 (1977), Behavioral and Neural
Biology 29, 532—536 (1980) and 31, 214—
224 (1981).

trol rabbits, ground squirrels and
other rodents. Some winters my hay-
stacks have fed 30 rabbits for every
cow I was feeding. My ditchbanks are
honeycombed by ground squirrels.
Without the predators things could
get much worse.

Testimony of Eugene Hodder be-
fore the EPA hearings on predator
control, 29 July 1981.

Book

First Aid and Care of Wild Birds

David and Charles, 1980, North Pomfret,
VT 05053, $28.00

edited by J.E. Cooper and J.T. Eley

Birds are a crucial and integral part of our
ecosystem and heritage. First Aid and
Care of Wild Birds gives us great insight
into their illnesses and injuries and how
best to treat them. It is an excellent re-
source book and an invaluable tool in the
emergency room/ laboratory environment.
Much care has been given to detailing the
measures to be employed from the initial
encounter with the sick or injured bird to
the time when it is ready for release back
into the wild. Written for both the scientist
and layman, this is the ultimate bird care
book.

 

 

Ralph T. Heath, Jr, Director
Suncoast Seabird Sanctuary, Inc.

 

 




 

 

Around the wicked world

JAPAN, NORWAY and ICELAND filed
objections 9 November to the cold har-
poon ban set during the 1981 IWC meet-
ing, and Japan filed an objection to the
sperm whaling prohibition. Significantly,
the Soviet Union, South Korea and Brazil
did not file cold harpoon objections
although they take large numbers of minke
whales. Because other countries did object,
however, they have an additional 90 days
to file on the cold harpoon.

COLOMBIA is a new member of
CITES—with effect from 29 November.
This should mean an end to the huge ex-
ports of wild animals, often accompanied
by forged documents. (Last December
3000 caimans arrived in ITALY bound for
a captive-breeding farm. Within three
months nearly all had died from neglect
and malnutrition.) For many years Colom—
bian laws protecting wildlife have been
strict— on paper. But the country’s conser-
vation agency Inderena has apparently
been powerless to enforce them. Customs
officers at Barranquilla airport have not
even allowed Inderena officials on to the
runway!

MONGOLIA now includes the snow
leopard among permissible game. The
government is eager to attract rich
foreigners who are not fussy about tourist
facilities. Snow leopards live in the High
Altai in eastern Mongolia. Any of three
firms, two in the UNITED STATES and
one in WEST GERMANY will take you
there—in the company of hunters and for
$50,000.

LEBANON was responsible for a
depressing non-event last year. In count-
less eastern European villiages the eagerly
awaited storks, harbingers of spring, never
arrived. On their long migrating journey
from southern Africa they had got no fur-
ther than Lebanon. There thousands were
massacred— apparently for their beaks.
But what is the value of stork beaks?

JAPAN, according to Friends of the
Earth, Tokyo, is pushing the Himalayan

musk deer ever closer to extinction.
Poaching, smuggling and corruption,
financed by Japanese interests, is active in
and around Nepal—which banned all
trade in musk in 1973. When Japan
ratified CITES last year, it took out a
“reservation” on this Appendix I species
and continues to import Himalayan musk
to the tune of some 30,000 animals a year.

Fur imports to Japan are booming
mightily. In the fashionable salons most of
these furs come from wild animals (“wild”
equals “better” to Japanese customers).
Highly endangered species of leopard and
tiger are especially prized.

So Polish horses must
but need they suffer?

Every year thousands of Polish horses
are transported by rail and road to slaugh-
terhouses in Italy and France. (The meat
shortage in Poland takes second place to
the government’s desperate quest for hard
currency.) From start to finish the journey
can take days, during which time watering
facilities are often very poor and veterinary
care rudimentary.

Last March inspectors in the West Ger-
man town of Bebra, just over the border

Good bird
business—
for a change!

Zimbabwe, a new recruit to CITES, has
banned all commercial bird exports pend-
ing revision of the country’s wildlife laws.
Ecuador has banned the commercial ex-
port of all birds with the exception of 38
species which are subject to quota controls.
Bahrain, in response to information about
the re-export of Australian parrots, now re-
quires ministerial approval for the export
of all live birds.

CHINA’S official New China News
Agency quotes scientists as saying that half
of the country’s 130 endangered species
are on the verge of extinction because of
reckless killing and exports. The scientists
ask for stricter laws and an educational
program aimed at the hundreds of thou-
sands of Chinese “commercial” hunters.
Last year a peasant convicted of shOoting
a giant panda was jailed for 18 months.

SOUTH AFRICA is permitting cheetah
skins to be sold openly in curio shops in
Johannesburg, according to World Wildlife
Fund, Kenya. And a Transvaal farming
magazine advertises cheetah trophies

(“vermin”) for $480.

go west—

from East Germany, carried out a spot
check on a newly arrived consignment of
78 horses bound for France. Several of the
animals were found in urgent need of
attention. On this occasion (for once) they
got it.

Abuses will only cease when the live
trade is stopped. Horses due for slaughter
should be killed in their own country and
then exported in refrigerated cars.

Back to the Jungle

In May 1980 two chimpanzees and one
pygmy chimpanzee were discovered by
West German border officials in a sack in
the boot of a car which was coming from
Belgium. The driver was charged and the
animals, in a piteous state, were freed and
taken to Frankfurt Zoological Gardens.
The pygmy chimp had a broken arm and
was barely alive. The two chimpanzees
were extremely thin and in very poor

heakh.
Not until 16 months later did the case
come before the courts and until then, on
continued page 12

 

Animal Welfare Institute

Scientific Committee

Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D.
Bennett Derby, M.D.

F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D.
Roger Payne, Ph.D.
Samuel Peacock, MD.
John Walsh, M.D.

Staff

Patrick Allen, Editorial Consultant
Leon Bernstein, Ph.D., MR.C.S., LRC.P.,
Consultant in Physiology

 

International Committee

T. G. Antikatzides, D.V.M.—~Greece
Angela King—United Kingdom
David Ricardo— Canada

N. E. Wernberg— Denmark
Godofredo Stutzin— Chile

Christabel Gough

Maria Gulino, Administrative Assistant

Diane Halverson. Research Associate

Lynne Hutchison, Whale Campaign Secretary
Fran Lipscomb, Executive Assistant

Officers and Directors

Christine Stevens, President
Cynthia Wilson, Vice President
John Beary, M. D., Vice President
Marjorie Cooke, Secretary

Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer

Aileen Train

David 0. Hill
Madeleine Bemelmans
Gerard Bertrand
Freeborn G. J ewett, Jr.
Sue Hunt

Lisa Melvin, Administrative Assistant

Nell Naughton, Mail Order Secretary
Adele Schoepperle, Assistant Treasurer
Cynthia Lee Stokes, Publications Secretary

 

 

11

 




 

lvory
artdealer
“agrees” to
fund elephant
campaign

Undercover investigations led
to the seizure of 300 ivory carv-
ings, valued at $1 million, at the
Stanley Masry Gallery in Los
Angeles. The collection violated
California’s Endangered Species
Act. As well as paying a $5000
fine and forfeiting his collection,
Masry agreed- as part of his no-
contest plea- to pay $1500 for an
advertising campaign denouncing
the slaughter of elephants and
also to give $3000 to the city to
set up public display booths at
the County 200 and Los Angeles
airport. The display will make
plain that the ivory was yanked
from the heads of slain ele-
phants—and will be seen by visi-

tors from all over the world to the
1 984 Olympics.

 

J ungle— continued

the order of the CITES authorities, the
animals remained at the 200. In that time
they fully recovered, tripling their weight
and again becoming vivacious young apes.

Now the two chimps are “home” once
more. On 25 September they returned to
The Gambia. After a period with Stella
Brewer’s Chimpanzee Rehabilitation Proj-
ect they will be released into the wild. The
future of the pygmy chimpanzee is still
unsettled. His native land is Zaire but a
suitable rehabilitation center does not exist
there.

Animal Welfare Institute
PO. Box 3650
Washington, DC. 20007

In view of its greatly increased cover-
age and size, the AW] Information
Report is celebrating its thirtieth
year of publication with a new name,
The Animal Welfare Institute Quar-
terly.

This may be
beautiful. . .

This ivory elephant from the Stanley
Gallery was one of many carvings

seized by the Los Angeles police.

but it cannot
excuse this

Credit: Los Ang es Police Dep .,

WF/Kenya Information Services

Poachers hack away at the elephant
tusks, part of the poaching frenzy that
threatens rhinos and other African

wildlife.

Help this Russian
save whales!

Mikhail Baryshnikov, Artistic Director of
the American Ballet Theatre, is a Soviet
defector. He is also an ardent lover of
whales who deplores their continued
slaughter. At NBC studios he has made
televised tapes, lasting 10, 20 and 30 sec-
onds, which movingly state his views on
whales— and whalers. These tapes are in-
tended for television stations which are
willing to run them without charge as a
public service.

Please try to get your local t.v. station to
participate. Then, if successful, write to us
at AWI giving all the necessary details and
we will speed the tape on its way. Help to
save whales! We’re winning—but we must
keep up the pressure!

Mikhail Baryshnikov is here seen sporting
his AWI T-shirt. You can have one too!
Adult small, medium, large or extra large,
$6.00; children small and medium, $5.00.
Order direct from AWI.

 




THE

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

QUARTERLY

 

P.O. Box 3650 Washington, D.C. 20007

Life in a hog factory

What’s it like in a hog factory? Ought we call them hog fac-

torinshnivemthgcrsensitigitiesunf . some. nromoters of evergmore—
intensive livestock raising to a term which some consider derog-

atory? Let’s take a look at the February, 1982 issue of Hog Farm
Management in an attempt to get it straight from the industry’s
mouth.

First, as to the word “factory,” on page 58 Dr Dave Bache,
listed as “ag economist, Purdue University,” talks about
records: “Daily we record sows bred, sows farrowed, and pigs
born. Greatest emphasis is on sows bred; we must breed 34 per
week to keep our factory full.” With 81/2 pages of Hog Farm Man-
agement devoted to his economic advice, it would seem his

Spring 1982

Vol. 31, No. l

parently accepted as part of “factory”
life. This stereotyped behavior, like the
frequently documented side—to-side
rocking of chimpanzees in cramped
cages, is the sickly outlet which intelli-
gent animals are forced into by ex-
treme confinement.

Those who hawk their wares in Hog
Farm Management are aware of the
stress placed on the animals. To quote
a full—page ad by the pharmaceutical
firm, Hoffman-LaRoche, “STRESSES
from confinement or adverse environ—
mental conditions may increase vita-

min needs in swine.”
continued on page 6

phraseology is accepted.
Bache’s casual referral to gestation
crates, an area so small that the sow
can’t even turn around in it, though
she is forced to remain there for the
four months of her gestation, also
makes plain that this too, unfortunate—
ly, is accepted. He refers to a producer
who writes a 3”x5” card for each

 

Veal calf in the narrow stall
to which it is confined for
life. (See pages 9 & 10.)

 

 

 

 

sow. “This card moves with her
through the building complex until her
next litter is weaned. Her card hangs
above her gestation crate and is fas-
tened to a wire line by a spring clothes
pin.” (page 62)

Sows in gestation crates are subject
to fits of “bar biting” in which they at-
tack the imprisoning bars in front of
them. Photographs of sows biting the
bars even appear sometimes in Hog
Farm Management where they are ap-

Close-ups of battery hens

Life in an egg factory

What’s it like in an egg factory? When the hens are first put
into the battery cages in which they are destined to spend the
rest of their lives, they are well feathered, good looking birds;
but by the end of their single year of life, many feathers have
been reduced to mere quills because the birds are so closely
packed in the small cages that they rub the feathers away. In ad-
dition, frustrated cage mates peck them or actually stand on
them for lack of space so that their backs may become entirely
bare—and this despite the fact that they have been “debeaked,”
that is, the upper mandible has been burnt off. Sometimes the
aberrant behavior fostered by the extreme overcrowding pro-
gresses to actual cannibalism. At the end of their ordeal, the

surviving hens are sold for canned chicken soup.
continued on page 8

 

 




THE SHADOW OF DOOM

An excellent article by Eiji Fujiwara in the Japanese magazine Asahi Shimbun
Science demonstrated in scientific terms the danger of continued commercial
whaling. With charts comparing the destruction of a number of endangered
species from rhinoceroses to orangutans, Professor Fujiwara showed the parallel
with whales and pointed to the whaling industry’s self-defeating justifications.

Eiji Fujiwara is Professor of Animal Behavior at Tsukuba University, Ibaragi,
Japan. Edited excerpts from a translation of his article follow.

In my opinion commercial whaling should
be discontinued entirely for some time.
Many Japanese readers will be outraged by
this statement. But in recent years
Japanese reaction to the whaling issue, in—
stead of being one of calm consideration,
has taken on a tone of nationalism, fueled
by a feeling that Japan has been victimized
on the world stage.

The arguments put forward are nothing
more than a struggle to defend the whaling
industry, and this has to be recognized
clearly from the outset. Facing bankruptcy
the industry is fighting to survive, using
every possible means. Scientists are mobi-
lized, government organizations are called
in to assist, the mass media are used to
manipulate public opinion. Behind all this,
though, lies hidden the key to the problem.
It is provided by nature herself.

Industrial activities are extremely impor-
tant and it is quite natural to struggle
against bankruptcy. However industries
dealing with wildlife require strict self-

 

Japan, long a target of conserva-
tionists who charge it has hunted
some species to the brink of ex-
tinction, has resisted pressure to
abandon the once-thriving indus-
try. However it acknowledges
that anti-whaling movements, ris-
ing costs and international re-

strictions on catch are exacting
their toll.

 

discipline. From olden times innumerable
species have been driven into or close to
extinction. Pursue the cause and most of
the time you will find that in the chase for
profit, industries have never slackened the
pace of killing.

Invariably industries dealing with wildlife
so conduct their business that sooner or
later the rate of profit based on investment
exceeds the rate of production of wildlife
resources. Characteristically the process
then continues until the resource is ex-
hausted. The pattern has been likened (by
Colin Clark) to a fatal disease which takes
the following course: 1) Warning signs that
the animals are becoming fewer are ig-
nored—“We are the ones who know best”
or “We have investigated and found them
numerous.” 2) Warning signs become
stronger; so too does their rejection. 3)

2

Warning signs become too strong to ig-
nore. Now the ace in the pack is played—
the right to a livelihood. By this stage you
can be sure that the shadow of doom lies
dark upon both animal and industry.

Preventing extinction has
priority

But when industrial activity has'ﬁnall'y
ceased—killed off by the crash in the
animal population—it may be too late. The
species may be irreversibly on the way to

 

Faced with massive layoffs and
plummeting profits the six
Japanese whaling concerns
merged in 1976 under one roof,
Nippon Kyodo Hogei, in a battle
for survival.

 

extinction. And no amount of money or
brainpower will bring back a lifeform that
has been lost. Here is the fundamental dif-
ference between commercial death and the
death of a species.

To regard wildlife as a resource that may
be utilized like livestock is permissible. But
here too there is a fundamental difference.
Livestock are counted individually and we
have wide knowledge of their reproduction
rates, ailments, life histories and so on.
There can be no danger of extermination.
On the other hand we have no such

precise knowledge of most wildlife. Iron-
ically we have had all too many examples

of populations only becoming known when
the species is on the brink of extinction.

 

The Japanese whaling industry’s
decline is perhaps best illustrated
in the coastal town of Taiji. Whal-
ing there dates back 700 years. In
the late 19th century it was the
world’s largest fishery base. Now
it is trying to develop a tourist in-
dustry with a museum and other
attractions to promote its image
as a “whaling town”.

 

Here is the most important point in the
whaling debate: cultural arguments and the
“rights” of the industry pay no attention to
extinction of species.

Because scientific methods of counting

 

wildlife populations are at best “estimates”,
all hunting quotas are gambles with the life
of the species. The data which the whaling
industry acclaims for its reliability is based
on very simple research started in 1978
and on earlier whaling statistics. Almost

 

In 1980, the last year for which
figures are available, Japanese
whalers took 19,000 tons of
whalemeat. In addition Japan im-
ported 25,000 tons from the
Soviet Union, Iceland, Spain,
Peru, Chile, Brazil, Norway and
South Korea. The entire Soviet
and Icelandic catches were
bought by Japan. A breakdown on
imports from other countries is
not available.

 

nothing can be established fromthfslgidof I I

imperfect data. Dispute within the Interna-
tional Whaling Commission is inevitable,
given our scientific immaturity in this field.

But we cannot leave it at that. In estab-
lishing models and parameters there is a
basic difference between the side seeking to
protect a species from extinction and the
side seeking to defend an industry. The
former tries to assure safety by taking a
minimum number of animals; the latter
pushes for a large enough quota to keep
the industry going. Here in a nutshell is the
history of the IWC.

Commercial extinction

Scientists employed by the whaling in—
dustry like to state: “There has been no
species of large whale driven to extinction

 

Contrary to assertions that whale-
meat is an “indispensable part of
the Japanese diet,” annual per
capita consumption is only a
meager 700 grams (under 2 lbs).

 

by whaling.” But what they have been
driven to is commercial extinction as
distinct from biological extinction. And
once this occurs, restoration takes at least
20 to 30 years and sometimes (as in the
case of the California grey whale) 50 to
100 years.

Scientists engaged in the study of en-
dangered species have submitted a new
standard to prevent extinctions. They say:
Industries based on the slaughter of wild—
life, when confronted by data suggesting
that the species concerned is facing extinc-
tion, should cease all further killing until the
facts are clarified—even if the data are frag-
mentary and causality cannot be proved.
By this criterion a total ban on commercial
whaling, as Europe and America advocate,
is justified.

NB. All insets in bold type are taken from an article in
Asahi Evening News, 13 March 1982.

 

 




 

 

STALEMATE AT IWC

At the special March meeting
of the International Whaling
Commission, held at Japan’s in-
sistence, no action was taken on
setting a quota on sperm whales
that Japanese whalers want to
kill. Twenty-four nations each
wasted thousands of dollars
sending representatives to
Brighton, England following the
Scientific Committee meeting in
Cambridge. Before any substan-
tive discussion could be held on
the report of the Scientific
Committee, Japan unexpectedly
brought the special session to a
close by saying that any decision

9_nf this issue should be post-
poned until the regular meeting

of the IWC in July. Taken com-
pletely by surprise, the Commis-
sion consented to the Japanese
request.

The number of IWC-member
countries opposed to a continua-
tion of commercial whaling has
grown to a near-three quarters
majority, while the number of
whales over which the handful of
whaling nations continue to hag-
gle continues to decline. This
summer’s IWC meeting could be
pivotal.

Please write to President Ronald
Reagan expressing your appreciation
of the forceful letter he wrote last year
to the International Whaling Commis-
sion and urging him to send a
message again to the July IWC
meeting. Ask him, too, to enforce the
Pelly and Packwood-Magnuson
amendments against whaling nations
who file objections to IWC decisions.

Your letters should be addressed:

The President
The White House

Washington, D.C. 20500

 

 

 

 

CITES guidelines

Guidelines for the transport of wild
species—with particular emphasis on those
covered by the Convention on Interna-
tional Trade in Endangered Species
(CITES)—have been published. The
guidelines apply to all wild animals and
plants and cover all forms of transport.
They include 18 sets of illustrated Packer’s
Guidelines with drawings showing the type
of containers and labeling required for dif-
ferent species. The price is $13.00 from:
Unipub, 345 Park Avenue South, New
York, NY 10010.

Long live whales
and the scrimshaw
artist!

The ancient art of scrimshawing on the
tooth of a sperm whale is gaining a new
lease of life—and a respectable one, for no
sperm whale need be killed before the artist
goes to work! Polymer ivory carves like
ivory, feels like ivory and looks like ivory.
But it is not ivory; it is a man-made plastic
with a durability even greater than ivory.

So sperm whales no longer have to die
for the scrimshaw artist to live. And the art-
ist’s finished work, though almost indis—
tinguishable from the real thing, costs a
whole lot less. For details send to: Har-
bourcrafts Company, 41 Bridge St., Fair-
haven, MA 02719.

Pirate whaler
sighted

A pirate whaler has been sighted in the
vicinity of the Hawaiian humpback’s migra-
tion route. On 22 December the captain of
the fishing vessel Driftwood sailing from
San Diego to Honolulu sighted a whaling
vessel near 150 W 30 N. The captain of the
Driftwood, Mr Tom Pfister, said the vessel
had a bow-to-bridge catwalk and a
mounted harpoon and was unmistakably a
whaling ship.

All pelagic whaling in the North Pacific
was banned by the IWC in 1979. The
pirate left the area very quickly after being
sighted and conservation organizations in
Hawaii have offered a reward for informa-
tion on its whereabouts.

A NEW
APPOINTMENT

The Animal Welfare Institute is
proud to announce that Simon
Muchiru has joined its International
Committee. A native of Kenya, Mr.
Muchiru is the Assistant National
Organizer of The Wildlife Clubs of
Kenya. Almost solely through his work
as a traveling lecturer to university age
groups throughout the continent,
Wildlife Clubs have been established in
nine other countries, and they are ex-
pected to proliferate during the next
few years. His role as an exponent of
environmental protection in a world
where every form of exploitation is
burgeoning is a critical one. In the face
of such challenges, Simon Muchiru re—
mains quietly optimistic and obviously
effective.

U.S. Threat to Bobcat

Continues

Furious that bobcats are still protected by
their listing on the Convention on Interna-
tional Trade in Endangered Species of
Wild Flora and Fauna, Fur Age Weekly
carried banner headlines on its April 26th,
1982 lead story,

“Acting CITES Head Rules Against US.

on Bobcat Delisting

“On March 22, 1982 the Acting

Secretariat of the Convention on Inter-

national Trade in Endangered Species of

Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) for-

warded to the 77 Party nations the

recommendation of the United States
that the bobcat be delisted from Appen-

dix II. Accompanying the information,

however, was a recommendation from

the Acting Secretariat that the U .8. re—
quest not be approved.”

The US. claimed, despite strong
representation to the contrary by conserva-
tionists, that delisting the bobcat will have
no adverse effect on the survival of the
species won the effectiveness of CITES in
controlling international trade in other cat
species. (All Felidae are at present listed in
either Appendix I or II.)

The Gambia and Malaysia have objected
to the US. bobcat recommendation;
therefore the proposal must now be put to
a postal vote. At least half of the parties
must cast a vote on the proposed amend-
ment within 60 days of notification and two
thirds of the votes must be in favor, if the
amendment is to come into force. If the
mail ballot fails, which is most likely, the
issue will be considered at the meeting of
the Parties in 1983.

Coyote - poison
restrictions lifted

Restrictions on the use of poisons for the
control of coyotes and other predators on
federal lands now rest entirely with the En—
vironmental Protection Agency which are
holding formal hearings on the matter.
President Nixon’s Executive Order, which
has been in force since 1972 with minor
modifications by Presidents Ford and
Carter, was revoked on 27 January this
year.

Help for
endangered turtle

In a decree published 7 January, President
Carazo of Costa Rica established Ostional
beach in the province of Guanacaste as a
protected breeding ground for the Olive
Ridley. Ostional is the world’s second most
important breeding area for this en-
dangered marine turtle.

 

 




A Visit to Washoe and Her Friends

by Christine Stevens

On the third floor of the Psychology
Building at Central Washington Univer-
sity the stately Washoe, the first chim-
panzee to learn to communicate by
American Sign Language, gently rules
her adopted son Loulis, and the
leading artist among the genus Pan,
Moja, creator of the first representa—
tional drawing made by a chimpanzee.
Across the hall live Dar and Tatu, well
known to TV audiences in the state of

A: /“

 

Moja

Washington as the bartender and sip-
per of Rainier Beer on the commercial
frequently aired by that company.

The learned chimps pay their board
in this way as well as through sales of
their paintings—non-toxic acrylic on
canvas.

Roger Fouts, one of the pioneers of
communication with chimpanzees,
brought together the five signing

chimps at the Ellensloerg campus two
years ago. Washoe, who is now sixteen

years old and uses 260 different signs,
is an old friend who learned many of
her signs from Professor Fouts when he
was a student of the Drs. Gardner at
the University of Nevada where
American Sign Language (ASL) was
first introduced to a non-
human—Washoe. The Time-Life
documentary film “The First Signs of
Washoe” tells the story up to 1974.

Since then Washoe became a
mother, but her baby died. Loulis, a
three-year-old, one of the infants who
were subjects in a leukemia experiment
at Yerkes Primate Center in Atlanta,
Georgia, was brought first to Oklahoma
where Washoe, after some initial
failures, succeeded in taking him to her
capacious bosom with a “come hug”
sign. She has taught him 31 signs in all.

Moja startled students of the mental
capacities of chimpanzees by her draw-
ing, reproduced in The Sunday Times
of London, July 25, 1976, of a bird.
Said The Times:

Usually, chimpanzee paintings are a
series of haphazard squiggles and streaks.
In April, however, Moja suddenly made a
quite different drawing, a copy of which is
shown here. She was asked to paint some
more but replied—in sign—that she was
“finished.” She was then given another
piece of paper and carried on with squig-
gles and streaks. It seemed, then, that she
wasn’t tired but meant that she had finished
a particular effort. The teacher therefore
asked her by signs what it was. Without any
apparent bother or surprise, Moja signalled
the answer. ‘Bird.’

Moja enjoys drawing and painting—her
favorite colors are the violet and purple
tones—and on occasion she has iden-

 

The wings with their delicate pointed tips are drawn by Moja. She used my
representation of a banana for the body of her conception of a bird in flight.

4

 

 

Washoe

tified other drawings she has made as
an apple or H’“St1‘aWbBrryT ”hushed Pro—

fessor Fouts if I might draw with Moja
and was delighted to find her very in-
terested as I roughly sketched a
banana, a bunch of grapes, and her
face. She eagerly accepted both draw-
ings and the pencil and lay down on
the floor immediately to add to what I
had done. She worked assiduously un-
til Washoe entered through the
overhead passageway that connects
the areas they share. Moja promptly
retired with her pencil and paper, and,
when finished, reluctantly gave up the
drawing to her student supervisor. It is
reproduced below. Asked what it was,
she quickly signed back “bird.” She had
transformed my outline of a banana in-

 

Dar

to her view of a bird by adding two
wings. They are in the same position as
in her original bird drawings.

Many student volunteers join Pro-
fessor and Mrs. Fouts in studying, car-
ing for, signing and otherwise interact—
ing with the chimpanzees, and the
result is remarkable for its peaceful,
friendly atmosphere where mutual
respect reigns between Homo sapiens
and Pan troglodytes and where new in—
formation is constantly being garnered
and regularly recorded on video tape.

To keep abreast of the activities of

 

 




 

the signing chimps, you can subscribe
to “Friends of Washoe” and receive the
newsletter, generously illustrated with
photographs of the protagonists. While
informing and entertaining yourself,
you’ll be helping to make up for the re-
cent loss of the National Science Foun-
dation grant which formerly covered
the cost of care, food, and medical ex-
penses for the chimpanzees.

Seeing Washoe climb to her plat-
form, recline in an attitude reminiscent

 

Loulis

of an ancient Roman at a banquet,
holding a bunch of grapes I brought her
over her head, and leisurely plucking
one after another, it is apparent how
much these knowledgable primates en-
joy a treat—and if there were any ques-
tion, Washoe resolved it after eating the
last one by signing a request for more
grapes.

Fouts’ studies of the signing chim-
panzees are pushing basic psycholo—
gical knowledge forward in a way un-
dreamt of only a short time ago. And
the subjects enjoy their role. What a
contrast with primates and other
animals in psychology laboratories in

 

Tatu

many other places where electric
shocks are the favored method of
eliciting information!

If you want to encourage research
which is completely humane—research
which should set the pace for psycholo-
gical research in the United
States—contribute to “Friends of
Washoe,” Central Washington Univer-
sity, Department of Psychology,
Ellensburg, WA. 98926

Europe bans seal
imports — Canadian
prices tumble

In early March the European Parlia-
ment of the Common Market voted
overwhelmingly, 160 to 10, to ban the
import of seal products. This was a
stunning blow to Canada which relies
on western Europe to take 70% of the
pelts of harp and hood seals killed in
huge numbers each spring.

The effect of the EEC ban was felt
almost immediately, even before a
single member had implemented it.
Sealing vessels returning to port in
mid-March were offered 40% less for
their pelts than last year. “Customers
are scared because of the vote in the
European Parliament; we’re afraid we
may lose our shirts,” said Mr Bernard
Nygarrd whose Carino company buys
two-thirds of all pelts in eastern
Canada.

Ironically the harp—seal quota this
year is, at 186,000, up 16,000 on last
year. However weather conditions
make it unlikely that this figure will be
reached. In the prevailing political
climate this can hardly hurt the trade
(what’s left of it). And it will help the
seals.

Small is beautiful

From tiny Delaware comes the welcome
news that Senate Bill 133 has been passed
by the state legislature. The bill empowers
the courts to decide on ownership rights to
animals seized because of cruel mistreat-
ment or neglect. Under certain circum—
stances the new law also grants immediate
relief for suffering animals. Under the old
law the animals could go right back to the
abuser.

This is a good, important law. We
should all be just as grateful as the animals
in Delaware to Mary Watford and her Dela-
ware Animal League for their effective lob-
bying after State Senator Jake Zimmerman
introduced the bill.

Mammal Red Data Book

Part I of IUCN’s new Mammal Red Data
Book has been published. Updated from
1978 it covers 145 taxa in‘ the Americas,
Australia, New Zealand and New Guinea.
The volume has been compiled by Jane
Thornback and Martin Jenkins, and costs
$20 from: Conservation Monitoring
Centre, 219C Huntingdon Road, Cam-
bridge, England.

Kangaroo — imports
stay permitted

The contentious federal ruling of 29 April
permitting the import of kangaroo products
from Australia has been confirmed by the
Interior Department. Considering the
cruelty routinely employed in the killing of
kangaroos (see AWl Quarterly, Summer
1981) and considering the scandal involv-
ing the substitution of kangaroo meat for
export beef and considering the fact that all
three species of Australia’s kangaroos are
listed as threatened under the Endangered
Species Act and that no imports were
allowed between 1974 and 1981—con-
sidering all these matters, Interior’s decision
is, to put it mildly, depressing.

The Department justifies its ruling by say-

ing that the Australians have now devel-
oped a sound “sustained y\e\d program”

for kangaroos which exempts them from
the trade prohibition which the US nor-
mally applies to threatened species.

Reaching out to

Eastern Europe

AWI is making friends and (we hope) inﬂu-
encing people in east Europe. At a sympo-
sium in Zagreb, Yugoslavia, last winter two
AWl publications were on display: The
Bird Business and Comfortable Quarters
for Laboratory Animals.

Warn wildlife
ultrasonically!

An ultrasonic warning device fitted to your
car can reduce the risks of your hitting an
animal while driving. The device Sav-a-
Life consists of a pair of 2-inch sound
tubes. At over 30 mph air passing through
them emits a high whistle audible to
animals but not to humans.

Developed in Austria and tested in Vien-
na and Finland, Sav-a-Ltfe is marketed in
the United States from New York (a state in
which more than 20,000 deer are killed by
cars every year). For information write to
Marcla Sales, Inc., PO Box 1226,
Cathedral Station, New York, NY 10025.

Another Austrian device, red reﬂectors,
is gaining increasing acceptance in this
country and in Canada. Called the Sware-
flex, it consists of a series of steel posts
which bounce headlight beams at sharp
angles to the highway. Unseen by the
motorist, these flashes apparently alert the
deer that danger is near. Significant reduc-
tions in deer/ auto collisions have been
noted where the Swareflex is in use. You
can obtain details from the Strieter Cor-
poration, 2100 18th Avenue, Rock Island,
IL 61201.

 




 

 

 

 

H09 Factory— continued from page 1

 

Among those “adverse environ-
mental conditions” in a hog factory are
varying levels of air pollution from the
sort that rots heating units and has
driven the magazine’s editor to
another form of employment, right up
to immediately lethal levels of hydro-
gen sulfide that kill hogs and hog
farmers alike. A few quotes from the
February issue show what’s involved.
“Maintenance Tips for Gas Heaters”
(p. 14) gets to the point in its first para-
graph: “Heating units installed in con—
finement hog buildings are subject to
an extremely undesirable atmosphere
for this type of equipment. The air in-
side a hog house is quite corrosive and
also quite dusty . . . During the coldest
part of the winter when the heat is
needed the most, the ventilation rates
are also lowest. This results in less air
exchange and a greater accumulation
of dust.”

How does that corrosion and dust
affect mammalian lungs? Here’s a
quote from John Byrnes, “a six-year
veteran of Hog Farm Management,”
who is shifting to a different job
because, as he put it, “I don’t smoke,
but I picked up a smoker’s hack. The
hack stayed with me as long as I was
near hog buildings. It is ironic that after
writing about hog respiratory problems
I ended up with one of my own.” A
pity the hogs have no choice about
moving out of the dusty, corrosive air.

Nor can they leave when the hydro-
gen sulfide levels peak. “Manure Gas
A Clear & Present Danger” (page 39)
begins with these words: “Denny

Roesler knew something wasn’t quite
right. The ventilated pit gases from his

nursery unit carried a foul, offensive
odor . . . not like hog manure at all.
And from inside he could hear the
screams of pigs in trouble . . . ‘Whenl
looked in, I didn’t like what I saw.’
What he saw were dead and dying
baby pigs at the far end of the nursery
. . . ‘In about a minute or two I was
feeling myself starting to faint.’ ” This
was the second time 45 pigs died on
this farm from the poison gas, and the
article states, “Others have lost a great
deal more.”

“According to University of
Nebraska Associate Professor of Live-
stock Housing, Dr Gerald Bodman,
hydrogen sulfide levels of 2 to 5 ppm
are common in hog confinement units

6

. . . Inhaling air with 20 ppm for more
than 20 minutes is considered danger-
ous for humans. At this level, pigs ex-
posed continuously to the air will
develop fear of light, loss of appetite
and nervousness. Continuous ex-
posure to higher levels will cause
vomiting and diarrhea. Levels of 800
ppm or above may produce uncon-
sciousness and death in pigs and
humans.” The article notes that inci-
dents similar to Roesler’s “are being
reported with alarming frequency.”
On page 44 a statement entitled
“Toxic gases: an occupational hazard”

says: “Livestock production practices
during the past 10 years in the US

have been evolving toward an indus-

 

Gestating Sow encased for 4 months.

trial approach. The livestock confine-
ment systems approach has been the
major technology behind this trend.
Liquid manure storage is a common

component of confinement systems
for swine, beef, dairy and veal opera—

tions.” Reference is made to an article
in the Journal of Occupational Medi-
cine that reports results of investigation
of six incidents of exposure to hydro-
gen sulfide from liquid manure that
resulted in eight deaths and three ill-
nesses. “The trend indicates future in-
creased human exposure to liquid
manure storage.” Obviously, this
trend will affect huge numbers of pigs
trapped in their cramped stalls.

Is this extreme total confinement so
beneficial from the standpoint of eco-
nomics that it is worth running such
extraordinary risks? Not according to a
carefully documented study from the
University of Missouri-Columbia Col—
lege of Agriculture, Agricultural Ex-

periment Station. In a paper entitled
“An Economic Evaluation of Total
Confinement, Partial Confinement,
and Pasture Swine Production
Systems,” by James B. Kliebenstein
and James R. Sleper, Research Bulle-
tin 1034, February, 1980, the follow-
ing statements appear: “During rela-
tively low input costs-output prices the
pasture system provided the highest
return above all costs per sow.”

Each year thousands of family
farmers are forced off the land by a
form of competition which deprives
the animals involved of their most
basic enjoyments. Indeed, the depri-
vations are so severe in the case of the
sows as to cause grotesquely abnormal

behavior. It is time for family farmers
and consumers to join with humani-

tarians to prevent still further indus-
trialization of livestock raising. Animals
are not machines, and those who want
to treat them as if they were must be
prevented from expanding their ill-
founded schemes.

A recent survey by Hog Farm Man-
agement indicated that 25% of its
readers plan new construction this
year. Given the above trends, it is all
too likely that most of this construction
will be hog factories. The analysis by
the scientists at the University of
Missouri—Columbia seems to have
fallen on deaf ears.

Commenting on a number of tables,
the paper states: “For example, using
16 pigs weaned per sow per year and
$.44 per pound market hogs, the par-
tial confinement and pasture system
provided the highest profit. Alterna-
tively, fewer pigs per sow per year
were needed to break—even with these

two systems-” Following further statis—
tics, the article notes: “The pasture
system requires the lowest level of
feed efficiency to break even.” And
later: “The pasture system provided
the highest income above variable
costs per sow for the feeder pig pro— \
duction phase for all swine prices and
feed cost levels studied.” It also pro-
vided “the highest return above all
costs per sow for all swine price and
feed cost levels involved.”

Again referring to statistics, the
paper notes: “ . the total confine-
ment line had the greatest degree of
slope (steepness), thus the highest
risk. To compensate for this risk, total
confinement provided the highest per

continued on page 7




Wild Pigs Point the Way

Hog farmers keen to improve the welfare of their animals without
sacrificing income will wish to study the findings of a 3-year project at
the East of Scotland College of Agriculture, Penicuik, near Edinburgh.
The project is to evaluate behavior in relation to the pigs’ environ-
ment. It is now nearing completion and the data that has emerged

bears directly on welfare.

Last September the British magazine Pig Farming reported on
results to date. The article that follows is based on this report.

“By allowing domesticated pigs to
live as their wild ancestors used to, we
have been able to compare their
behavior patterns with those known to
occur in wild pig populations,” says
project director Professor Wood-
Gush. “It is remarkable that we have

found very little difference between
the two types.”

But what about differences between
pigs in “the wild” (a large semi—natural
enclosure in the College known as Pig
Park) and pigs in cramped intensive
rearing units? One crucial difference
here relates to the sow’s behavior after
giving birth. In the wild the sow “talks”
to her pigs to assemble them at one
side of her nest. If she wishes to lie
down she moves about one meter
away, taking great pains not to lie on
the piglets. Some overlaying does still
occur but maternal care sees to it that
piglets are rarely crushed.

Another difference is that the fre-
quency of suckling is about half that
seen in more intensive systems. (In
bad weather the piglets burrow into
the nest wall rather than going to the
udder to keep warm.) This means that
the sows come on heat earlier than in
intensive systems where constant
suckling retards oestrus.

In the wild the sows lactate up to 90
days after farrowing; weaning then
occurs in a mutual process between
sow and piglets. “The bonds of kinship
remain within the group, even after
the sow produces her next litter,” says
Dr. Alex Stolba, a research fellow
from Zurich and responsible for the
day—to-day running of the project.

Findings from the Pig Park have
been used to construct within the Col—
lege grounds an “enriched environ-
ment” pen beneath a south—facing
roof. There are four separate but inter-
linked pens for several sows and their
young. The design has taken into
account the various behavior patterns
seen in the wild, especially the dis-
tances between feeding (in the Park
aggression during feeding is eliminated

by the pigs spacing themselves out),
nesting and dunging areas.

Sows in the wild choose a nesting
site that is sheltered by bushes on at
least two sides. Branches to give extra
protection are built into the nest which
is usually 2-3 meters in diameter. Dur-

ing this period and when having their
pigs the sows also tend to stay apart

from the rest of the group. “The same
thing happens in the new pen layout,”
says Alex Stolba. “Few contacts take
place between the sow and her litter
and the rest of the group for up to 10
daysf’

Once the 10 days are up, though,
the sow begins to encourage her pig-
lets to mingle with other pigs in the
group. This socializing is seen as an
important part of the pigs’ behavioral
development.

In the pen solid walls around the
nesting area mimic outdoor nesting
conditions and rubbing posts for
scratching. Deep straw in the nesting
area helps to cushion a piglet if it does
get lain on by the sow. Special levering
bars enable the penned sows to mimic
such “wild” activities as chewing bark
and pulling branches towards the nest.

Says Dr. Stolba: “Very few frustra-
tions appear to build up when pigs are
kept in this way. One can easily walk
through the pen without upsetting the
group, even when a boar is present or
the piglets are small.” And overall
space requirements in this “enriched”
system are no greater than the space
needs of an intensive system.

Investigations continue but the
project directors believe that the study
may help overcome many of the wel—
fare worries of intensive rearing. “The
system definitely meets the needs of
animal welfare,” asserts Dr. Stolba.
Also it has been shown to measure up
in terms of production—a potential
from each sow of 9.5 pigs reared to
baconweight (the fastest in around
144 days) and more than 2.3 litters a
year.

Pig welfare code

At the request of the Agricultural Minister
the UK’s Farm Animal Welfare Council has
drawn ’up a draft code for the humane rear-
ing of pigs. Main points are:

0 A ban on weaning before three weeks
old except in the case of sickly or ex-
hausted piglets.

0 The provision of a bedded area (with
adequate space for dunging and exer-
cise) and a ban on cage rearing which
causes injuries to the feet and legs and
triggers behavioral abnormalities.

0 Improved piglet protection in farrowing
pens, with an escape area at least 30 cm
deep where a suitable temperature is
maintained for piglet comfort and well-
being.

 

Hog Factory—

continued from page 6

man returns during high price levels.
On the other hand, the pasture system
provided more stable returns, thus a
lesser amount of risk.” Following a fur-
ther table, the authors state: “Break-
even feed efficiency for the pasture
system was higher than for the other
two systems.” And again, “Return
above all costs was highest for the
pasture system . . .”

The conclusion must be then that
large-scale swine producers are gam-
blers at heart and hope to make profits
by volume. The paper states: “Fixed
costs for some swine production sys-
tems are high, and to recoup these
costs the system needs to be utilized
continuously.” Apparently this leads
to the excessive pressure on the
animals and the dangerous conditions
for workers in the hog factories which
were noted above.

Ill-conceived tax benefits also tend
to encourage the construction of these
factories. For example, a total confine-
ment building can be wholly deducted
as “equipment,” but if a farmer uses
an existing building for his swine and
provides humanely for them, he will
not be able to deduct as “equipment”
the improvements he makes in the
building. Big city investors, who never
even see the pigs or the hog factories,
can, if they are in a high enough tax
bracket, make profits denied to the
family farmer. Readers who are inter-
ested in further details on these finan-
cial matters can obtain information
from the Center for Rural Affairs,
Walthill, Nebraska, 68067.

 




 

 

 

Sw1ss eggs-peruse
The Swiss housewife shopping for eggs has
a choice: battery cage or deep litter. Deep-
litter eggs are “humane” eggs and carry the
trademark of the Schweizer Tierschutzver-
band, the Swiss Animal Protection League.
But the price is a little higher and how can
Madame (or the shopkeeper) be sure she is
really getting what she is paying for?

Science has come up with the answer.
An egg laid by a battery hen rolls on wire
netting to the floor. In the process the deli-
cate membrane enveloping the egg is
scarred. Invisible to the naked eye the ring-
like marks show up clearly under ultra-
violet inspection.

On the other hand deep-litter eggs, gent-
ly laid into a nest, reveal nothing. But that
nothing is something which a lot of Swiss
people are very willing to pay for.

 

normal hen
feather

battery hen
feather after
confinement

 

 

 

 

     

 

 

Only quills are left in the tails of
these battery hens. The feathers have
been rubbed off against the cage wires
or pecked off by cage mates. Note
hens standing on top of one another
for lack of space on the cage floor.

 

Discarded ——l

Overall view of the egg factory with an escaped hen-——>

8

 

 

 

Eggs, anyone? A candid view of
a U.S. egg faCtOry continued from page 1

The industry frequently asserts that
the birds would not produce large
numbers of eggs if they were suffering.
They assert that egg production has
risen as a result of the battery system.
Again, however, we should turn to
scientific studies to test the accuracy of
these assertions.

For example, the University of Cali-
fornia’s Division of Agricultural
Sciences conducted experiments
which show that crowding chickens in
cages reduces profits. “It is difficult,”

they state, “for most poultrymen to
visualize 3,000 hens making more

money than 4,000. Many firmly
believe that chickens must be crowded

 

Beak trimming should be for-
bidden by Regulation except
under veterinary supervision
as a last resort when it is clear
that more suffering would be
caused if it were not done.
From the 1981 Report of the
House of Commons Agriculture
Committee.

 

to improve labor efficiency and reduce
costs per layer for housing and equip—
ment. The point they do not recognize
is that higher bird density leads to can-
nibalism and other social stresses that
depress the rate of laying.” These
authorities state, “It is a well accepted
principle that as the number of

chickens in a given cage is increased,
the mortality rate also increases and
egg production decreases.”

Why then, the uninitiated reader
may ask, would a poultryman crowd
his chickens to the very limit? Because
he is gambling, like his counterpart in

”.

the hog factory, that he can get larger
returns from the increased volume of
production no matter how severely his
hens are stressed.

In Leaflet 2652, the University of
California shows a photograph of a
debeaked hen, a strange looking
creature whose lower beak juts out
twice as far as her upper one. This is
intended to reduce cannibalism. A
study by J. Peterson reported in The
Laying Hen and Its Environment
(1980) showed that in cages housing

six hens, the frequency of cannibalism
is approximately double that of cages

holding three or four.

Battery cages with more and more
hens forced into them have swept this
and other countries. However, it is not
universal. For example, P. Rannou,
winner of a prize from the French
organization Oeuvre d ’Assistance pour
les Bétes d’Abattoirs, reports that his
system, the result of 25 years of
research, is highly successful. Both in-
terior and exterior photographs of his
large operation in Quimper are
shown. As can be seen, the hens are
able to roost, to go into nest boxes, to
scratch in litter with daylight the full
length of their buildings, and to forage
for grain in the straw. The collection of
the eggs is automatic, and the eggs are
very clean because of the special nest
boxes. As may be seen in the photo-
graph, the hens’ feathers are in excel-
lent condition, and they are not
debeaked. Mr Rannou offers to furnish

to an American firm wishing to follow

this fully tested example, a complete
study on this totally automated raising
of uncaged hens which combines mini—
mum use of energy with maximum ef—
ficiency and security.

 

 

 

 




 

Straw yards for veal production

The following is an extract from a lec-
ture given by Philip Paxman, who initi-
ated group housing for English veal
calves, to the Universities Federation
for Animal Welfare symposium at Wye
College, England, on 15 July last
yeah

Veal production in the UK is tiny—only
some 30,000 calves produced for veal in
1980, against some 7 million on the conti-
nent. The value of UK production was
$7.5 million ($14 million), compared with
£2 billion ($3.7 billion) abroad. Britain
employs some 240 people in veal farming
and the ancillary industries. On the conti-
nent there are around 60,000 people

directly involved in veal production. On
the other hand Britain exports some

300,000 calves a year whereas the conti—
nent are net importers. There are move—
ments from France to Italy but no move-
ments of live calves out of continental
Europe.

It is clear, therefore, that there is a huge
vested interest in the veal industry in
Europe with concomitant conservatism
and great resistance to change. Veal
should rightly be regarded as a dairy prod—
uct. It is a combination of two dairy bi—
products—surplus calves from the dairy
herd and surplus skim milk. In value it rates

Modern French
Building for
Laying Hens.

second only to the liquid milk market, ex-
ceeding butter, cheese, cream and the
processed milks.

In the continental system calves are
housed in individual wooden pens,
measuring 5 ’6” by 2 ’ with slatted floors.
Typically there will be 30 such crates inside
one controlled—environment room. The
calves are fed milk by bucket twice daily
and do not receive roughage.

In the Quantock system calves are
housed in groups, bedded on straw, in
natural environment buildings. At the heart
of the system lies the calf feeder. This acts
like a cafeteria, mixing milk powder and
water on demand to provide warm fresh
feed through rubber teats.

Calves are bought when around one
week old and weighing around 90 “as. We

aim for weight out of 375 lbs and a carcass
weight of 225 lbs. Milk consumption is 470
lbs of solid feed, and the food conversion
ratio is 1.65 with a production cycle of 105
days.

After arrival the calves are rested for
8—12 hours. Each calf is then individually
brought to the feeder and given a rationed
drink of two litres of warm milk at 8% con-
centration. This procedure is repeated
twice a day for the following two days, and
then the calves are allowed free access to
the feeder. After 10 days the strength is

 

 

.: gt
Hard slats without straw to lie on. Note
that calf cannot even stretch out its
legs when lying down.

progressively increased.

Bedding is a daily task and an onerous
one. On the other hand there are none of
the insults normally associated with rearing
calves for beef and dairy herds—there is no
de—homing and no castration.

Health inspection with loose-housed
calves is at a premium, and we have found
it necessary to walk through each batch of
calves twice a day and physically inspect
each calf. I do not mean to actually lay
hands on it but to make a point of looking.
We find that prominent ear-tagging assists
this, as does keeping group sizes small.
While the feeder accommodates 40 calves,
we like to sub-divide them into two groups
of 20. We look specifically for evidence of
scour, nasal discharge, empty stomach and
general listlessness.

We are concerned only with two major
disease categories—enteritis and
pneumonia. Enteritis, frankly, is not a
problem at all, which we ascribe to our pro-
phylactic medication on entry, and food
quality. Pneumonia on the other hand is
quite a major problem from five weeks on-
wards. Post mortem examination at the

continued on page 10

 

Straw-yard veal swept the board to
win all the veal classes last summer
at Smithfield Show and to win the
Supreme Championship. “What par-
ticularly pleased us,” said Terry
Keysell, Managing Director of Quan-
tock Veal, “was that we won in face of
the strongest international competi-
tion for years, proving that British
‘welfare veal’ is far superior to the
cruel foreign product.”

 

 




 

 

 

 

Marguerite Yourcenar

on animal rights

One of the most distinguished writers in the world today, Marguerite Yourcenar
is a humanist whose recent election to the Academie Frangaise has been widely
acclaimed as a tribute to her and as a breakthrough: that most sacrosanct of all
French institutions has never before admitted a woman to membership.

She now lives in the United States for the greater part of every year. The
author of Memoirs of Hadrian is, in the truest sense, a citizen of the world and of

the world of letters.

The following is a translation of part of her statement to the 1981 annual
meeting in Paris of the Oeuvre d’Assistance aux Bétes d’Abattoirs, the leading
French organization seeking to reform factory farms and slaughter houses.

One may wonder whether there is
any point in making a declaration
of animal rights. I would welcome
such a declaration with joy. But
already I am sure many wiser
heads are saying: “It has been
more than 200 years since the
declaration of the rights of man,
and what has been the result? No
age has been more repressive,
more inclined to the large scale
destruction of human lives, more
driven to degrade, even in its vic-
tims, the very idea of humanity. Is
it right to promulgate a manifesto
for the rights of animals when-
because human nature has not
changed— it may be as ineffective
as the old declaration of the
rights of man?”

I think it is right. I think it is
always right to reaffirm the true
commandments, which though
they may continue to be broken,
will still remind transgressors
that what they have done is not
right. “Thou shalt not kill.” All of

our history, of which we are so
proud, is one long violation oi

this commandment. “Thou shalt

Straw Yards .

continued from page 9

abattoir indicates that about 30% of the
calves have pneumonic lesions.

Quantock’s first commercial unit near
Cambridge has been operating since 1977.
Every calf dying there has been inspected
at the Cambridge Veterinary Investigation
Laboratory, and a very accurate health pic-
ture has been built up. The mortality rate is
now down to under 2%.

Turning to the all—important question of
economics the main costs are those of
farming, feed and calf input. Compared
with the crate system labour costs are cer-
tainly lower; one full-time man can deal
with 400 animals on the new system, as

10

not commit cruelty to animals.”
Or at least, thou shalt not make
them suffer more than can be
avoided: they have their rights
and their dignity just as we do.
This is certainly a very modest ad-
monition, but in the present
climate of opinion, it is, alas,
almost subversive.

Let us be subversive! Let us
start a revolution against igno-
rance, indifference and cruelty—
vices that have the more often
been turned against the human
race because they had already
been practiced on animals. Let us
remember, if we are concerned
with human rights, that there
would be less child abuse if there
were fewer abused animals, fewer
“cattle cars” transporting the vic-
tims of fascism to their deaths, if
we had not accepted a system of
transportation of livestock where
animals suffer without food and
water while awaiting their deaths.
And in whatever small measure is

possible, let us resolve to try to
change the circumstances of the

lives of the animals we live with.”

opposed to about 250 for crate-reared
calves.

There is a straw cost and a feeder cost,
neither of which occurs in crates. But
because there is no heating, energy costs
are lower. Also repair costs are much lower
and depreciation is infinitely lower. Overall
there is a saving of about £10 ($18) a calf
on the Quantock system.

I am quite confident that in Britain no
more veal crates will be put in, but how
about the future in continental Europe?
The pressure behind the continental veal
industry lies with those whose main con-
cern is to convert milk powder into meat,
which they can liquidate. The veal calf

 

Veal Calves
“Sporty” New Chain
Division

What is it like in a veal factory? The best
answer to this can be found on the indus-
try’s own words taken from The Vealer, the
spokespiece for the “special—fed veal indus-
try,” a euphemism for intensive livestock
rearing.

The January-February 1982 issue ad-
vises, “Calves with bronchial pneumonia
often have a headache so bad that they do
not want to lower their head. In summer,
calves bordering on heat stroke will not
lower their heads, but will drink if you lift
the bucket.” This comes from a veterinarian
employed by one of the big Dutch feed
companies who manufacture the “milk

replacer” the calves subsist on.
Besides their confinement to stalls so

narrow that they cannot stretch their legs
out when they lie down, veal calves are fre-
quently chained. In the November—
December 1981 issue, The Vealer shows a
calf with the following caption: “The sporty
new stainless steel neck chain insures that
the calf will not be chewing on oxidized
iron links that might turn the meat red.”

Even The Vealer (September—October
1981) recognized that chaining has its
drawbacks. In a box (page 33) it empha—
sizes: “NECK CHAINS AND STRAPS
SHOULD NOT BE TORTURE. CHECK
YOUR CALVES!”

The Vealer is equally frank about the
strained relations between veal factories
and veterinarians. In an article by George
W. Crossmen III, we read:

Besides waiting too long to call veteri-
narians for a really sick calf, vets do not
look favorably on relations with veal
growers because they have long defied
accepted agricultural methods. The
feeding of long hay to livestock, in order
to maintain a proper digestive system

has been considered a sound practice

for years. As long as the veal industry
feeds only milk formula, which can ob-

(which consumes 10 times as much milk as
ordinary beef and dairy calves) is simply a
means of turning surplus milk into liquid
cash.

The Europeans are short of calves, and
the large traffic of calves from the UK to the
continent is a source of major concern. It
would be logical to reverse the flow, and
for people like me to have my feed require—
ments manufactured in France and in
return to send them veal produced by the
British farming industry on the straw-yard
system. It may, I hope, be a forerunner of
what is to come that I recently struck just
such a reciprocal deal with a French organ-
ization.

 

 

 




 

 

    

viously cause metabolic upsets down the
road, it is understandable that veteri-
narians are not attuned to veal health.
At the same time, veal growers have to
maintain the realization that when they
purchase auction calves they are playing
with fire and they can’t expect a vet to
save every calf treated only a few hours
from death.

The same article refers to “disease ac-
cumulated at the auction” and “cases of
shipping fever which are inevitable after
trucking, especially at such a young sus-
ceptible age.”

Lest the reader suppose that illness is
rare in special-fed veal calves, a look at the
current issue (March—April 1982) of The
Vealer shows the routine medication given
by veal farmers the magazine surveyed:

Bender: We feed calves according to

bag schedule the first week. We also use

a preventive medication program. We

usually vaccinate calves the first week.

We watch calves real close and try to

prevent problems before they occur. We

also implant with Ralgro.

Beitzel: Day 1 we give a round of Veal
Lac Paste and put calves on Neo Ter
powder in mixer or Chloratet depending
on condition of calves, we might use
Nitrofurazone for 3 days in mixer. We
also Ralgro calves at 2—3 weeks.

Yoder: 3 feedings of Nitrofurozone,
then 3 weeks of Neo Ter Soluble
powder in the mixer. 2nd day we give
1.B.R.-P1 3 Vaccine also lst days we
gave 2cc BO-SE. 4th days 2cc P.B.#2.
We also use a lot of vitamins in milk.
This has worked good for us and we
have been using this on recommenda-
tion after we had a bad group with
I.B.R. I also use Ralgro plus Agri—Serum
in the milk.
Finally, it has long been known that
there is no rational reason for depriving

calves of a normal amount of iron. Studies
by Dr. Ruben Gardner, Professor Of
Animal Science, have shown over ten

years ago that a taste panel was unable to

Periodical Pleasures

by John Gleiber

 

There is, I hope, nothing in the world
more universal than love for animals and
the desire to protect them from needless
hurt and mindless brutality. A spirited
defender of animals, Madame Jacqueline
Gilardoni, founded Oeuvre d’Assistance
aux Bates d’Abattoirs to attempt to protect
animals in slaughter houses from unnec-
essary pain and suffering and it has grown
to cover animals in factory farms. It
operates “sous le haut patronage du
Ministére de L’Agriculture.” (Why does
everything sound so much better in
French?) The O.A.A.B.A. Bulletin #32 is
the twentieth anniversary issue. VIVE
MADAME GlLARDONl! It describes the
Annual Meeting held on May 24, 1981.

During the proceedings an interesting
idea was propounded by Nobel Laureate
M. le Professeur A. Kastler. He feels the
time has come to work for a law requiring
all meat and eggs to be labeled to indicate
whether they have come to market from
battery cages and cruelly cramped stalls, or
from more humane environments. This
would allow the consumer, the ultimate
judge, to make an informed choice. M.
Kastler said “I think we should be able to
achieve such a law rather soon” followed
by, according to the Bulletin, “Applaud-
issements . ”

Four pages are devoted to the presenta—
tions of Diplomes D’Honneur from the
O.A.A.B.A. and Diplomes accompanied

 

differentiate between normal veal and so-
called “white” veal. “The public demands a
calf that is white which is borderline
anemic,” according to Richard G. Warner,
Professor of Animal Nutrition at Cornell
University. “Since iron is needed by man,
red meat is better than pale, but the veal
companies feel no pressure to change.”
(New York magazine, November 5, 1979)

by medailles from the Department of
Agriculture. These awards are similar to the
Monitor Awards described in our last
Quarterly and are given to government
employees who have introduced humane
treatment and principles into some work
situation. The photographs of the justly
proud honorees range from beaming
young and bearded to middle-aged and
staid, but all have done something
meritorious for animals.

It’s fun to read as well as instructive.
Madame Gilardoni writes about the found-
ing of the Society and the events leading
up to it. There is an account of legal action
(Gallic, so probably awesome) taken over
the year. There is a wonderfully dramatic
account of the rescue of a fallen heifer in
the Haute Savoie by a helicopter owner
who volunteered his equipment. Academi-
cian Marguerite Yourcenar (see page 10)
writes movingly about animal rights. And,
everywhere there are photographs reflect-
ing the spirit of this strong, active Society.

It would be too much to urge you to
learn French in order to read this, but if you
can rustily squeak through, you’ll find a
lovely, across-the-sea affirmation of the
supranationalism of our common goal.

Inquiries may be addressed to
O.A.A.B.A., Siege Social, Maison ,des
Vétérinaires, 10 Place Léon-Blum, 75011,
Paris, France.

 

Sad disappearance

Maziwi Island, off north Tanzania, which
was the main nesting place for sea turtles
along the East African coast, has vanished
beneath the sea, reports the Tanzanian
Daily News. Two researchers could find no
trace or it nor of the turtles.

 

Animal Welfare Institute

Scientific Committee

Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D.
Bennett Derby, M.D.

F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D.
Roger Payne, Ph.D.
Samuel Peacock, MD.
John Walsh, M.D.

Staff

Patrick Allen, Editorial Consultant
Leon Bemstein, Ph.D., M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P.,
Consultant in Physiology

 

International Committee

T.G. Antikatzides, D.V.M.—Greece
Angela King—United Kingdom
David Ricardo—Canada

N.E. Wernberg—Denmark
Godofredo Stutzin—Chile

Simon Mucheri—Kenya

Maria Gulino, Administrative Assistant

Diane Halverson, Research Associate

Lynne Hutchison, Whale Campaign Secretary
Fran Lipscomb, Executive Assistant

Officers and Directors

Christine Stevens, President
Cynthia Wilson, Vice President
Marjorie Cooke, Secretary
Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer'
John Beary, M.D.

Madeleine Bemelmans

Gerard Bertrand
Christabel Gough
David 0. Hill

Sue Hunt

Freeborn G. Jewett, Jr.
Aileen Train

‘ Non-Voting

Felicity Luebke, Administrative Assistant
Nell Naughton, Mail Order Secretary
Adele Schoepperle, Assistant Treasurer

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

The leopard’s downlisting
could be its downfall

The African leopard has been down-
listed from endangered to threatened.
This change of status means that In-
terior believes that while the leopard
may become endangered in the fore-
seeable future, right now it is not.

On paper this is a subtle distinction;
but on the ground it is all-important.
For it allows American sport hunters to
bring home leopard trophies from
Africa. And this despite the fact that
the species is in Appendix I of CITES.

The decision was prompted by a
report on the status of the leopard in
Kenya. Compiled by Dr P.H. Hamil-
ton it was highly critical of a previous
“desk investigation” by Randall Eaton
which had “grossly inflated” the
leopard population of Kenya. Never-
theless Hamilton recommended the
step which Interior has taken, arguing
that the leopard is now “only”
threatened and that revenues from
sport hunting would improve conser-
vation of the species by tying it to a
cash value.

Overwhelmingly conservationists
have taken issue with this line of argu-
ment. In a lengthy and carefully docu-
mented counter-report, Defenders of
Wildlife goes along with a great deal of
what Hamilton says but arrive at a
quite opposite conclusion. Hamilton
paints a bleak picture of the leopard’s
likely future—its dwindling forest habi-
tat and its vulnerability to traps, snares
and guns.

Animal Welfare Institute
PO. Box 3650
Washington, DC. 20007

He concedes, too, that his popula-
tion estimates are “heavily dependent
upon subjective data and assump-
tions”. This is commendably honest
but does nothing to bolster confidence
in the estimates he produces. (He also
insists that any extrapolations to coun-
tries outside Kenya must be “subjec-
tive to an extreme”.)

Before a species may be downlisted,
the Endangered Species Act stipulates
criteria which must be met—one of
them being that the species is showing
clear signs of recovery. On the best
available evidence (including Hamil—
ton’S) the leopard is still declining in
most of its range.

The chairman of the Cat Specialist
Group of IUCN’s Species Survival
Commission, Norman Myers, has also
strongly opposed the reclassification.
Myers makes three main points:

0 The 42 African countries which
make up the Ieopard’s range are too
large and diverse a region to be
treated as one.

The proposition that wildlife man-
agement in the region will be able to
keep sport hunting firmly within its
legally laid-down bounds is not
readily supportable.

The belief that local people will
benefit from sport-hunting revenues
and thus be given an incentive to
become conservationists rather than
poachers is largely a myth.

Calling all
AWI members!

Have you chosen your free AWI book?
Here is the current selection list.

Whales versus Whalers—a series of ar-
ticles, 1971—1982, on the campaign to
Save the Whale. Illustrated.

Facts about Furs—a history of the fur
trade by Greta Nilsson. Capture methods;
banning of the steel-jaw trap by 48 nations;
trapping laws in all 50 states. Illustrated.

The Bird Business, A Study of the Cage
Bird Trade—a fully documented study by
Greta Nilsson, with a foreword by S. Dillon
Ripley of The Smithsonian Institution and a
chapter by Tim Inskipp. Illustrated plus 8
pages of color photographs.

First Aid and Care of Small Animals—

advice on helping wild creatures in trouble
by Ernest Walker, former assistant Director

of the National Zoo. Illustrated.

If you have not yet applied for one of
these, write to the Institute identifying your-
self as a member and specify which title
you would like to have shipped to you.

Traveling Dogs

Off on vacation soon and planning to take
Fido with you? Good—but what are the
regulations on immunization, health cer-
tificates, quarantine and so on? The
answers are all in a new booklet, Traveling
With Your Pet, put out by the ASPCA,
441 East 92nd St., New York, NY 10028.

 

The downlisting of a species ought
to be a success story—the story of how
an animal has come back from the
brink. But when a still endangered
species is downlisted, it then stands in
even greater danger than before.

Non-Profit
Organization
U .S. Postage
PAID

New York, NY.
Permit No. 8898

 




  

 

THE

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

QUARTERLY

 

P.O. Box 3650 Washington, D.C. 20007

Japan, Norway, the

USSR and Peru
Reject Whaling Ban

The traditional consensus of the
Japanese government was broken
when a meeting of ministers in the
lame duck Suzuki government de-
cided to file an objection to the Inter-
national Whaling Commission’s
25—7 vote to end commercial whal-
ing by 1986. The Minister for the En—
vironment spoke against the deci-
sion, and a Gallup Poll showed the
large majority of Japanese opposed
to the filing.

In off-the-record negotiations be-
tween the United States government
and the Suzuki government, Japan
was offered favorable treatment in
fish allocations if no objection were
filed; but in announcing the decision
to file, no mention was made of this

(Continued on page 2)

Fall 1982

Vol. 31, No. 3

Pharmaceutical association
says LD50 “lacks justification”

Forcing a group of animals to consume
quantities of a substance sufficient to kill
half of them (lethal dose 50 or LDso) has
long been attacked as cruel, but regulatory
agencies have clung to the 55-year-old test
invented to standardize a few powerful
medicines, and they now insist on its use to
test an immense number of products in-
cluding additives, pesticides and chemicals
of all sorts.

Following lengthy study, the Pharma—
ceutical Manufacturers Association, which
represents 149 research-based pharmaceu—
tical companies, has determined that “ad-
vances in toxicity testing now make it possi-
ble to conduct most drug safety evaluations
without the LD50 test.” It recommends:
“Regulatory requirements should accom-
modate this position.”

In an eight-page paper accompanying
the October 12th announcement, the PMA
states: “There remains a tendency to

 

 

 

’ilCnﬂeb ﬁbies 5mm

COM M Iml ON COM MERGE. 'ClEiC-E.
AND TRANSPORTATION

WASHINGTON. D.C. 205 I0

l982$853lB '

4 *[ﬂiﬂﬁﬁim%b"ﬁo‘cu~ito

 

7193A - zit—Iv I“) warm in

Iwcmavr. 1986$L1u®i5i£mtﬁmtuwu mnozmmra
su%taanunzee. il’k’rGIﬂLN—Vﬁi. *Iﬂﬁieiﬁulk f
iiiNFLJnHT.

“ff-iii. *Eiilthﬂiﬁtza-vt. nannmoeneawnee
mrmwmractomauumt I’cmfﬁiiczu. @ﬂ/krmﬁtﬂé
ﬁfe. *EiotmmornawamwmamLn. Lorna. kﬂ
anemia. EwklﬂﬂlfvEELiLfmi. :oxﬁiuxrncttnmgr:
*[ﬂsldtﬁﬁ‘POﬂEﬁ/ﬁvﬁFﬁEcto’t. inmwccsnbiﬁﬂ
likakilfffokkhiiLJ'ﬁ

Sumter/mats; IWCf®:®lﬁmmkmiemﬁEt'?M'Ei
neuter-r. 586/». ﬁﬂtiﬂtﬁ®##itﬁtif. ﬂint-Jim:
mailmcoikimummﬁeiﬁﬁum‘ﬁmkiinzbewansé
Sifﬁeiﬁ‘rdét’tﬂiimtiit

mﬁiﬂoﬁttiﬁeIwcmsgwﬁit—ramx. nemamermn
Isa—5mmntnaaeeaecutwwwr - var-ryygﬂe
ﬁt‘ﬁtmﬂeiﬁtnbnit mﬁru'iﬁcum. *mmticmut‘
{abwirttiaiilt'favmu Iwcmkféumlilcnm. akin
n'ﬁﬂzmﬁﬁmwtﬁiﬁkiﬁﬁ‘rb:theiumen-iﬁbﬁfﬂ

Iwcwniegusmmmzix. 49—. ”77‘77Fﬁﬂfﬂiﬁilbu
if. immﬂieatueenemceemmmczﬂaéea’Qf—n r:
uni. nnnmaseanomnzmor. *nwnswmzmcr
animus. ﬂETZaLtb’E‘fénrbi'ﬁ *iﬂwiﬁﬁruﬁﬁizﬁTbﬁ
ﬁklﬁﬁ‘rbtmz. :5L7ﬁiﬁteﬁtmaamﬁwbut ewe
ﬁﬁi‘aiﬁSTODiﬂﬁiﬁﬁtﬂi 5 i736 iftﬂt‘ﬁmtﬁiiﬁft

6L. Iwcommamnicnraﬁinuwitneentremr. iﬂa
ﬁn“ Liﬁﬂiﬂkﬂhﬁfﬁiﬁ¥°$£kiﬂiﬁetﬁ< mums an em.
(mi. Kiwi/interim; iwcnemeeemmnae:
’rté‘t’iz'rbi‘r. :mzxor. WEE]. #mnnnxonneeux
surmise:Lemmy.“netazntakaonennmroreszn
bsttlfxéfuia Iwcwikikﬁtiknbﬁt‘. bawaAmzko
TﬂiLhLUIOfTb'QD

 

 

 

 

 

 

S

San H. JACKSON
Sun A. CRANSTON
Son 5. HAYAKAWA
Sen H, BAKER, JR.
Sen B. KASTEN

Sen M. HATFIELD
Sen D. RIEGLE, JR.
Sen M. BAUCUS

Sen J. MELCHER
Sen w. COHEN

Sen G. MITCHELL
Sen P. LEAHY .
Sen C. GRASSLEY
Sen P. TSONGAS
Sen A. SPECTER

Sen C. MATHIAS. JR.
Sen D. BUMPERS

Sen H. METZENBAUM

Sen S. NUNN

Sen T. EAGLETON
Sen R. LUGAR

Sen J. STENNIS

7x I) nemlxﬁaaoinomtnens immatuzz L :1 Li:

1982£F7H24B.I£lm"§ﬁéii25¥ﬂ7%ﬁ lmﬁn-emewmr
a: a Miami Lt. L2H. Emmi. Evkaxmﬁnummim
iii-r17; b .t 5 (ﬂaw? L in z» : tﬁﬂﬂJfT.

ﬁalﬁbif li.fiﬁ®llﬁl:.§k0)1§ﬁi'£ Bkifﬁlﬂ’ﬁm :. Elzkbi'i‘
CQ£$$ LEL’CiI. BMIEWH X—V’kl— 3. T; 5 it’r)‘ D 0’. 8mm
ﬁlﬁilﬁfk? ZIM’E’EVL J '3 kﬁllﬁfﬂﬂ Kiwi) D iii/r... Edit. 9K

 

Sen 8. PACKWOOD
Son W. PROXMIRE
Sen E. KENNEDY
Sen C. PERCY

Sen E. HOLLINGS
Sen W. ROTH

Sen A. SIMPSON
Sen T. COCHRAN
Sen D. MOYNIHAN

Sen D. DURENBERGER

Sen W. RUDMAN
Sen J. CHAFEE

Sen L. WEICKER, JR.
Sen C. PELL

Sen ].BIDEN.JR.
Sen C. DODD

Sen B. BRADLEY
Sen. L. CHILES

Sen R. DOLE

Sen J. EXON

Sen R. BOSCHWITZ
Sen S. SYMMS

Sen 8_ GOLDWATER
Son D, INOUYE
Sen 5, MATSUNAGA

Sen W. HUDDLESTON'

Sen D. DeCONCINI

Sen H.5CHMIT'I‘
Sen 1. RANDOLPH
Sen C. LEVIN

Sen J. HEINZ

Sen G. HART

Sen H.CANNON
Sen L. PRESSLER
Sen J. WARNER
Sen J. ABDNOR
Sen P. HAWKINS
Sen A. D'AMATO
Sen M. WALLOP
Sen J. DANFORTH

Wozﬁojtﬁz Ltfio-ﬁm: .k a 1 e, “H Cur-(T.

cum. trqv‘xﬁiﬂitTlvnrVIII/7a:7-4717'4-7'1—m‘ﬂﬁtbka3tiﬁ‘n‘TT.
t l-gv‘xﬂﬁ/vﬁ v w a 7x 7 n 0533052 am

7:?» - '711V717 - 4717-4-71— t/'7~‘/‘/ r 70.020007 *5

ﬁti777ﬁﬂ0‘ AMtﬁﬂthFWW$GFIP3 E 1:7—957’Izirl0ﬁ

leebamwkl7a Ilsrizulehrvaamﬂiﬁmt-t.

 

 

 

 

 

Copy of an advertisement in the Japanese press giving a translation of the full text of
letter signed by 66 Senators. (Full text of the letter in English, page 3-)

 

assume that chronic toxicity can only be
adequately defined by the LDE,O test.” Of
the vaunted precision of this test the PMA
reporthas this to say, “. . .the definitiveness
of the result is more apparent than real
because of the influence of experimental
variables. Yet, in order to provide a precise
number, many animals are needed. In
view of these shortcomings and of the ad-
vances made in toxicology, it appears that
the LD50 test in its present form is of very
limited use in helping define the toxicity of
drugs. Just—as-meaningful information can
be obtained with fewer animals.”

The report explains what the toxicologist
and the clinical pharmacologist really need
to know. While emphasizing that animals
are needed for these tests, it repeatedly
states that they are not required in the large
numbers called for by the “classical precise
LDSO determination.”

(Continued on page 4)

New AWI book on
endangered species

A major contribution to public education
about endangered species is the new hand-
book being published by the Animal
Welfare Institute in December. No com-
prehensive and inexpensive compendium
on this urgent subject has been available to
schools and to persons wishing to join in ef-
forts to head off the massive extinctions
that will certainly take place unless an in-
formed public demands worldwide action.
The Endangered Species Handbook fills
this long-felt need.

Greta Nilsson, who wrote Facts About
Furs and The Bird Business published by
AWI in 1980 and 1981, is the principal
author. Originally intended to fill the place

(Continued on page 4)

  

 

 

 




 

‘ Japan warned about whaling stance

TOKYO (AP) — Oregon Sen. Bob Packwood Packwood,a SGyear—old Republican, arrived here
warned Japan’s foreign minister yesterday that from China Thursday afternoon With a Port of
Japan's resistance to a worldwide whaling ban is Portland trade group. .He told Sakurauchl that
fueiin U.S. protectionist sentiments, Foreign Minis- Japan's whaling objection may .have increased
tiy ofﬁcials said. chances that the U.S. Congress Will pass domestic
Packwood, who chairs the inﬂuential Senate content legislation. . .
Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee, Such legislation would require foreign automakers
told Foreign Minister Yoshio Sakurauciii that Japan's selling more than 100,000 cars in the United States to
pro-whaling stance has also aroused anti-whaling produce a SpeCific proportion of their U.S..sold cars at
sentiment in the United States. U.S. plants. . . .
Japan recently filed a formal objection to a vote Packwood opposes domestic. content legislation.
by members of the International Whaling Commission Packwood also met the. minister of agriculture,
to ban commercial whaling after 1986. Japan claims forestry, and fisheries, Kichiro Tamwa. Tazaw'a
whale stocks are sufficient to allow certainty/pas of asked that the United States. not reduce Japan 5
commercial whaling to continue while scientific fishing quotas in U.S. waters in retaliation against

research $095 on. Japan‘s whaling stance. Seattle Times 13 November 1982

 

 

 

Whaling ban rejected

Continued from page 1 ing industry explains the decision to

object.

 

 

 

Japanese

people against

the objection

A Gallup poll completed in October
shows that more than three quarters of the
Japanese people disagree with the deci-
sion of the Suzuki Government to file an
objection to the IWC vote to ban commer-
cial whaling by 1986.

Nippon Research Center Ltd., the
Japanese section of the well-known polling
organization, questioned 2000 people in
different geographical locations in Japan,
covering different age groups and
economic levels. They found that
although 90% had eaten whale meat, it
was far from being a dietary staple—only
3% said they ate it as often as once a
week, for example.

When asked whether they agreed or
disagreed with the IWC decision, only
19% disagreed, whereas 46% agreed and
34% had never heard about it.

On the subsequent question as to what
approach Japan should take, 76% said
the IWC decision should be accepted.
Mainichi News headlined this result which
caught the lame duck Suzuki Government
in an awkward position as it continued to
insist it was filing an objection at the in-
sistence of the Japanese people.

It is hoped that when the new govern-
ment is formed in December, the objection
will be rescinded.

2

promised U.S. assistance. A leading
feature of the official press release
was the false statement that an objec-
tion had to be filed by November 4th.
The Japanese government was well
aware that this is not the case,
because Peru filed in October. Under
the terms of the Treaty, if any nation
files an objection, all other nations
have 90 additional days to make
their decisions as to whether or not
they, too, will take similar action.
Observers believe that the Suzuki
government’s strong ties to the whal-

Peru, whose whaling industry is
controlled by a Japanese whaling
company, was the first to object,
allegedly by Japanese request. Nor—
way filed within hours of Japan’s
filing. Chile also filed a more limited
objection relating to a former quota
which it claims should still be allowed
to be filled. The other major whaling
nations, South Korea, Brazil and
Iceland, have made no announce-
ment, and it is hoped that they will
accept the decision of the Inter-
national Whaling Commission.

 

 

HONGKONG BORNEO SHIPPING CO., LTD

Dear Mr. Sakurauchi,

Matsunaga (A Japanese Port)
13 -10-82

I am a Merchant Mariner and of the total sailing experience of 6 years I have spotted
the Great Whale only twice and that too in the Indian Ocean only (Once near the Sri
Lankan Coast and the Second time near the Seychelles Islands).

Of the Past two years that I’ve been on the Japanese Coast and the Eastern and
South China Seas, I’ve yet to sight a Single Specimen. To a Mariner it’s a Feast for the
Eyes to see a Whale Blowing in the Otherwise Empty Expanse of our beautiful
Oceans—Our Home. 50 Stop and think! Wouldn’t you let us have these feasts more

often.

Yours Pleadingly

Mohan Singh Chabba

Ilnd Officer, M. V. MUI KIM
HongKong Borneo Shipping Co.
815, International Bldg.

Des Voeux Rd. C.

Hong Kong

 

 

 




 

 

 

The Honorable Malcolm Baldrige
Secretary of Commerce

Department of Commerce
Washington, DC. 20230

Dear Secretary Baldrige:

We wish to extend our congratula-
tions to you and to Dr. Byrne and the
US. delegation for achieving a 3/4 ma-
jority vote in the International Whaling
Commission for a cessation of commer-
cial whaling to take effect in 1986.

It has been eleven years since the
US. Senate and House passed resolu-
tions calling for the US. to negotiate a
ten-year moratorium on commercial
whaling, and ten years since a similar
resolution offered by the US. was
adopted by the United Nations Con-
ference on the Human Environment. In
the intervening period the effort to pro—
tect the great whales has become a ver-
itable crusade. Last month’s victory in
the IWC is a source of gratification for
many millions of citizens who actively
participated in that crusade, both in the
United States and around the world.

Our key concern, which we are
certain you share, is to insure that this
epochal decision by the IWC is honored
by the whaling nations. The United
States must, during the coming period,
undertake every diplomatic means open
to it to prevent the whaling nations from
filing objections to the moratorium deci—
sion.

The Pelly Amendment to the
Fishermen’s Protective Act and the
Packwood-Magnuson Amendment to
the Fishery Conservation and Manage—
ment Act represent the best and most
credible deterrents available to prevent

 

QlCniieb ﬁlafega ﬁenale

COMMITTEE ON COMMERCE. SCIENCE.
AND TRANSPORTATION

August 31, 1982

nations from subverting the IWC by
means of objections, or through leaving
the Commission. In order to avoid any
thought that the US. can be “faced
down” on the whaling issue, we should
make it absolutely clear now that the
United States will invoke these amend-
ments against any nation violating IWC
decisions.

In addition to a clear statement on
the Pelly and Packwood Amendments,
we should assure the whaling nations
that other means available to us to rein-
force the IWC will not be ignored. For
example, the allocation process within
FCMA provides ample discretion to ad-
just allocations (either up or down) in
response to a wide spectrum of US.
objectives and concerns. This means of
lending substance to US. policy on
whaling should certainly be considered.
GIFA’s under FCMA are, of course,
another area subject to review by the
Congress.

If we succeed in preventing objec-
tions against the IWC cessation deci-
sion, we will avoid a period of tension
and uncertainty in our relations with
whaling nations with respect to fisheries.
If no objections are filed, there is no
need to fear the possible future use of
sanctions to enforce IWC decisions.
This will permit U.S. fishermen and
processors to conclude fishing
agreements which promote the interests
of the majority of citizens, including
fishermen in both non-whaling and
whaling countries. If the IWC decision is
accepted, all will benefit.

Names of 66 Senators who signed

 

this letter are shown on page 1. (

 

Norway’s cold harpoon may be illegal

The Norwegian Animal Protection
Society is suing their government’s
Fisheries Department on the grounds that
Norwegian whalers’ use of the cold (non-
explosive) harpoon contravenes the coun-
try’s laws. Article 2 of the relevant legisla-
tion states: “Animals shall be treated well;
their instincts and natural behavior shall be
taken into account so as not to risk un-
necessary suffering.”

The plaintiff argues that “unnecessary
suffering” is precisely what the cold har-
poon inflicts—a point which is heavily
underscored by the report of an official
“controller” aboard a Norwegian whaler
last June. He states: “All whales har-

pooned were observed and recorded. The
killing time was lengthy—an average of 27
minutes. The reasons were: 1) Bad luck
with the shooting (the captain’s opinion).
2) Very thick wire on the winch and thus
very slow hauling. 3) The harpooning on
two occasions of two whales simulta-
neously.”

At present there is some doubt as to
whether the Norwegian Animal Protection
Society will be adjudged to have sufficient
standing to permit it to take a government
department to court. But if that issue is
decided in the Society’s favor and the case
is heard, the Fisheries Department will be
sorely embarrassed. Even other govern-

 

Senator Bob Packwood

So nearly a

senseless slaughter
of 960 porpoises

Nearly 1000 Dall porpoises under
sentence of death gained a last—minute
reprieve——thanks to forceful interven-
tion by Senator Bob Packwood
(R-Oregon). The porpoises were
scheduled to be killed in the Bering Sea
off Alaska by Japanese harpooners
acting on the instructions of American
scientists aboard the vessel. The proj-
ect, backed by the Department of
Commerce and NCAA (the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion), called for the deliberate killing of
960 female and infant porpoises. Why?
In order to discover how many por—
poises Japanese fishermen should be
allowed to continue to kill accidentally
(“incidental catch”) while netting
salmon in US. waters.

(Continued on page 4)

ment departments would seem to think
that Fisheries is on shaky ground here—to
judge from a letter of 6 October 1981
emanating from the Department of
Agriculture. The letter states: “It can hardly
be said that whaling with the non-explosive
harpoon meets the requirements of the
Animal Protection Legislation which
demands humane killing.”

And behind the dubious legality of
Norwegian whaling lies the shameful fact
that it flouts a decision taken at the 1981
meeting of the IWC. It was then ruled that
the cold harpoon should be outlawed a
year hence. Norway along with other whal—
ing nations objected.

3

 

 

 




Senator Dole introduces bill to protect laboratory

animals

On September 23rd Senator Robert
Dole (R-KS) introduced S. 2948. He
said, “. . .I am introducing a bill to
promote non—animal or alternative
methods of research and to insure the
humane treatment of animals used in
scientific research. . .

“Specifically, this bill places em-
phasis on the development of
methods of research and testing that
do not require live animals, or would
reduce the number of animals used
and reduce pain. The Secretary of
Health and Human Services is
authorized to make awards for such

A Little Kindness Helps

Atherosclerosis, or hardening of the
arteries, painfully afflicts large numbers of
elderly people. And of course it can trigger
heart attacks. Stress has long been known
to be harmful. But at the University of
Houston research on rabbits by Professor
Robert Nerem and colleagues has shown
for the ﬁrst time, and in a most striking
manner, the beneficial effects of kindness.

For several weeks the rabbits were
handled, stroked, talked to and played
with for lengthy periods each day. During
this time they were fed a high cholesterol
diet—as was a control group which re-
ceived normal lab care, in other words no
petting or affection. Arterial lipid deposi-
tion was a dramatic 60% less for the rabbits
who received special attention and this is
believed to be due to a lessening of stress,
i.e. the animals felt more secure.

Whether findings can be applied directly
to people is debatable. But they could go
some way to explaining a frequent and
dangerous phenomenon of animal test-
ing—the widely differing results of different
labs (and even the same lab) using ap-
parently identical protocols. In the words of
Professor Nerem: “It is not enough to
specify that diet, exercise and all other
variables are controlled. You must be sen-
sitive to the social-psychological environ-
ment as well.”

”35»
Continued from page 1

The next step is to see that regulations
are changed in the United States and
abroad so that the current massive man-
datory tests are dropped promptly. There
can be no excuse for continuing scientifically
unjustifiable painful tests on huge numbers
of animals.

4

alternative methods. An advisory
panel appointed by the Secretary will
insure consideration is given to such
alternative programs and advise him
of his responsibilities in this area. . .

“The bill establishes certain pro-
cedures that peer reviewers must look
for in research proposals involving the
direct use of conscious animals.”

S. 2948 is similar in most respects to
HR. 6928, the Walgren bill in the
House of Representatives, which has
cleared the Science and Technology
Committee.

Porpoises
Continued from page 3

As a piece of “scientific research” the
project was surely bizarre. Certainly
that is how it struck Senator Packwood
who on hearing about it said: “What I
don’t understand and what no one has
been able to tell me is why our
American scientists can’t do their
research with the porpoises already be-
ing caught and discarded. We are kill—
ing porpoises so that we can figure out
how many the Japanese can kill while
they catch our salmon. I believe our
priorities are out of order.” The Senator
then promptly negotiated a solution
Which permits the Japanese a further
three years’ salmon fishing under pres-
ent arrangements while NOAA officials
work out how to get the data they need
without killing additional porpoises.

What a cruel, wasteful and wildly ir-
rational slaughter this would have
been. And so nearly was! For the
Japanese vessel concerned was about
to set sail on its death-dealing mission
when the order came: Stop. Senator
Packwood had acted with great speed
but he first learned of the project from
an Oregon housewife, Mrs Kathleen
Hoyt, who sent him a copy of her letter
to Secretary of Commerce Malcolm
Baldrige questioning the kill, plus a clip-
ping from an Iowa newspaper which
told the story.

There is a moral here for all of us.
We must never assume on these sorts
of issues that ugly facts which come our
way are bound to be known to our
policy makers—even when they are
powerful friends of the causes we sup-
port. So—keep eyes and ears open
and make sure that those who should
know what you know do know!

 

Indangered Yellow-tat ed woolly Monk y.

AW] Book
Continued from page 1

of the AWI manual Humane Biology Proj-
ects, the handbook has grown to encyclo—
pedic proportions, and includes not only a
historical analysis of nature’s retreat (the
title of one of the sections) and a substantial
projects section for teachers and students,
but a never—before-published comparative
listing of species appearing in The Red
Data Book of the International Union for
the Conservation of Nature, the Appendix
I and II lists of the Convention on Interna-
tional Trade in Endangered Species, the
Endangered and Threatened lists of the
US. Endangered Species Act and of the
individual states. State laws on the subject
are fully described. One chapter was writ-
ten by Los Angeles City Attorney Barry
Groveman, who was responsible for the
successful prosecution of Stanley Masry
resulting in the permanent seizure of an
estimated million dollars’ worth of carved
ivory. Questions about the Act are
answered by Michael Bean of The En-
vironmental Defense Fund whose expert
knowledge of every clause of the US.
Endangered Species Act is said to have so
unnerved industry attorneys who opposed
the recent reauthorization and wanted to
use it to weaken the Act, that a number of
them feared even to appear at the same
hearing with him before Congressional
Committees. The Handbook comprises
244 pages and is profusely illustrated.
Following AWI’s tradition of service to
educators and their students, single copies
of the Handbook will be supplied free on
request to teachers and librarians. Requests
and orders should be addressed to The
Animal Welfare Institute, Box 3650,
Washington, DC. 20007. For the in-
terested public, the price is $5 prepaid.

 

RA. Mittermeier

 

 

 




 

 

GOOD NEWS
FROM AFRICA
Kenya: pink
ﬂamingos return
to Lake Nakuru

The “greatest bird show on earth” is
back. Kenya’s pink flamingos which-
formerly thronged Lake Nakuru, two
million at a time, and which then withdrew
in a mass gesture of protest when the lake
became polluted by chemicals and sewage,
are returning. Today there are some half
million birds there and “this number is ex—
pected to rise in the next two years,” says
game warden Joseph Ayieko, “because
the water situation is now favorable.”

Factory pollution is under control,
Nakuru now has a modern sewage system
(thanks to a West German loan) and the
town rubbish dump has been moved from
its lakeside site. Also Nakuru National Park
has been enlarged to 50,000 acres.

Once again visitors can stand at the
lakeside watching flamingos delicately tip-
toeing through the shallows just a few yards
away. A bit further out and the lake
becomes a pink carpet with, here and
there, blobs of other colors. For when the
flamingos returned they brought back the
pelicans, the cormorants and the hornbills.
Lake Nakuru is again a living lake!

1‘ y 1 \ , , 'I 1. .. , ,/ . / 7" ,,
~ . , 1 - .z r ’
. ; . r 1%" w/ “ - 9'" . ‘ 1:47.
‘ ‘ ._ 1:94;, , > v ~ ‘11:.
w, .,.,sm"‘w—/’W ""t . ,. _ 2:
r

   

 
   
 

, m mfg/(4%,
11/73th a Ely/IIIVlﬂ‘lll'“nuvlkﬂyif
1"”7”! "ll/ll: 'ylx/I‘;.L’45~ "3‘ I ”I
”Hill/K .. _, A y/{fllmin

   

C.
71?:

:u within: 10:

r 'i'
_. x,, .
-. g . . .54..

’ a} i u

y 1 ‘,";4‘ -" ‘4.

Greece puts turtles first

In Greece all construction was stopped
for three months around the island of
Zakynthos, a nesting ground of the log—
gerhead turtle. This was a ministerial deci-
sion adopted to safeguard this endangered
species.

 

Parrots in danger,
turtles in the soup

Two endangered parrots were shot
by a hunting party led by G. Ray
Arnett, the Assistant Secretary for Fish
and Wildlife in the US Interior
Department, during a trip to the
Cayman Islands in September.

The shooting of the Grand Cayman
Amazons (Amazona leucocephala
caymanensis) occurred while Arnett
and his companions were hunting
doves and pigeons, according to
reports. Seeing movement in some
trees, they blasted away with their
shotguns. Only upon closer examina—
tion did they find they had downed the
brightly colored parrots. A fellow

, marksman was Stephen S. Boynton, a

Washington lawyer for fur, trapping
and wildlife trade interests.

Arnett was in the Cayman Islands, a
tiny archipelago in the Caribbean south
of Cuba, at the invitation of the
Cayman Islands government and the
Cayman Turtle Farm. The privately
owned turtle farm wants the US. De-
partment of the Interior to lift its ban on
imports of green turtle meat produced by
the farm. The British government,
which administers the foreign policy of
the Crown colony, is pressuring the
US. government to lift the trading ban.
Boynton has been hired by the
Caymans to lobby in Washington.

 

Primate Importer
Faces Charges

by Fay Brisk

Charles River Research Primates Corp.,
of Port Washington, N.Y.—this country’s
major supplier of primates for medical
research—has been charged with violating
transportation standards of the Animal
Welfare Act.

The charges were brought by the US.
Department of Agriculture’s Animal and
Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS),
which said that, between July 1979 and
November 1981, the firm shipped
monkeys and apes in substandard crates to
various points in New York, Massachusetts
and Iowa.

According to APHIS, some of the ship-
ping crates were either too small or not
strong enough to support the animals, or
had “protrusions that could hurt the
animals.” Others reportedly lacked suffi-
cient ventilation and protective rims or
handholds, and failed to provide feeding
and watering instructions, as well as proper
labeling.

In some, APHIS said, “the size of the
wire mesh allowed animals to stick their
fingers or tails through the cage—a danger
to both the animals and cargo handlers.”

The firm, formerly known as Primate Im-
ports Corp., is registered with APHIS as a
research facility, which, on occasion, has
housed as many as 3,500 primates. Its
president is Michael A. Nolan, a long—time,
worldwide importer of apes and monkeys,
who has come under fire from some
animal welfare groups for his shipping
practices. It was his firm that reportedly
supplied the crab-eating macaques to Dr.
Edward Taub, of the Institute for Behav-
ioral Research in Silver Spring, Md. (The

scientist was convicted of cruelty to one of
the monkeys last summer by a Mont-
gomery County Circuit Court jury.)

If found guilty before an administrative
law judge, Charles River Research
Primates Corporation faces a civil penalty
and an order to “cease and desist” from
future violations. No hearing date has been
set.

“Traffic” warning
for Tokyo

Japan, a recent and vitally important
ratifier of the Convention on International
Trade in Endangered Species, now has a
TRAFFIC office to monitor Japanese
wildlife trade and to see that CITES rules
are enforced. Mr. Hyosuke Kujiraoka,
former Director of Japan’s Environmental
Protection Agency, is the Honorary Direc-
tor of TRAFFIC (Japan) and Tom Milliken,
a Japanese-speaking American conserva-
tionist, is Assistant Director in charge of
operations.

Japan, after the US, is the worlds
largest consumer of wildlife and on a per
capita basis may be number one. Around
one—third of world trade in birds involves
Japan. The country is also the world’s
largest importer of ivory and ranks second
only to West Germany as a trader in wild
furs.

Milliken, however, believes that the
Japanese are undergoing a change of
heart. He says: “The nation’s acceptance
of CITES was a conservation milestone.
Strict enforcement presents a formidable
challenge but also a clear opportunity for
Japan to move into the conservation
mainstream.”

 

 

 

 




 

 

Black Sea dolphins and porpoises have been
brought to the threshold of extinction

“The world’s largest

and most destructive

kill”

50,000 dolphins and porpoises are killed by Turkish fishermen in the
Black Sea every year. It’s a horrific slaughter, carried out with no
restrictions. Any dolphin or porpoise, whether pregnant or newly
born, may be killed by anyone with a riﬂe and a boat. No license is
required. The hunters admit there is no economic necessity for it.
They say they do it to protect fish stocks and to preserve a tradition

of dolphin catching.

Last June the Council of Europe’s Convention on the Conservation
of European Wildlife came into effect, giving total protection to the
Black Sea dolphins and porpoises. Turkey has signed the treaty but
not ratified it. Now a campaign by a British conservation group, the
People’s Trust for Endangered Species, is bidding to persuade the
Turkish authorities to ban hunting while urgent research is under-
taken into the population levels of the dolphins. Allan Thornton
describes how the world’s largest and most destructive kill was

discovered by the People’s Trust.

Dolphin hunting in the Black Sea began
in the late 19th century when Russian
fishermen caught them for their meat and
oil. By the mid 1930’s up to 250,000
dolphins were being killed each year by
Turkish, Bulgarian, Romanian and Russian
hunters. In 1964 the dolphin populations
in the waters off the Soviet Union suffered
a collapse and in 1966 the USSR,
Bulgaria and Romania prohibited all
dolphin hunting.

Only Turkey allowed the hunting to con-
tinue and its annual kill steadily increased.
In 1969 it reached 166,000 and over the
past 15 years more than 900,000 dolphins
and porpoises have been killed in the Black
Sea. Their populations have now been
brought to the threshold of extinction.
Concern for their survival was expressed in
1976 by one of the world’s most
authoritative bodies, the UN. Food and
Agricultural Organization.

Its marine resources committee stated:
“It is possible that all three (dolphin and
porpoise) species may be undergoing ex-
ploitation at such high levels that they will
not be able to survive for more than a few
years. Action is urgently needed to close
the Turkish fishery or substantially reduce
its catch.”

The Turkish government ignored the
warning and since that time no new infor-
mation about the number of dolphins being
killed or the impact it is having on the
populations has been available. However
in 1979 Susi Newborn, a British conserva-
tionist, began to research the sparse data.

6

She travelled to the eastern Black Sea area
and confirmed that the hunt was continu-
ing. She returned with harrowing stories of
a factory filled with dolphin carcasses.
The People’s Trust for Endangered
Species agreed to fund a new investigation
to determine the extent of the catch and to
gather photo documentation if possible.
We (Allan Thornton and photographer

i

   
   

5‘.

Hundreds of dead dolphins piled at Trabzon processing station, Turkey.

 
 
  

Close-up of some of the dead Delphinus
delphis.

David Higgs) agreed with Bill Jordan, the
director of the trust, that we would visit
Turkey under the guise of researching a
book on fisheries of the world and the birds
and marine animals which feed upon
them.

At the Foreign Ministry in Ankara we
were given a letter to present to the local
authorities to obtain their cooperation. We
drove 250 miles north to the Black Sea,
taking a guide along to interpret for us after
being warned that few people spoke
English. For his own protection we never
told him of our real mission, and he was
satisfied with our cover story.

At the coast we turned east, stopping at
every port and harbor where there was
even a single fishing boat. On the third day
we reached Ordu, a small city where the
dolphin hunt was supposedly centered.
We noticed two boats over in the corner of
the harbor and walked towards them. A

Higgs. People '5 Trust for Endangered Species

 

Higgs. People's Trust for Endangered Species

 




hundred yards away I saw the dark, lifeless
shapes of dolphins on the stern deck. We
approached the vessels and while our
guide spoke to a crew member I made a
quick count. One boat contained 78
dolphins and the other 65.

The crew invited us aboard for chai, the
strong, bitter Turkish tea, and we were in—
troduced to the Com brothers who were
friendly and keen to talk about dolphin
hunting. Through our interpreter I asked
them many questions. Fishermen in the
Mediterranean and the Aegean consider it
a sin to kill dolphins, so we asked why
Turkish fishermen hunted dolphins.
Ahmet, in his early 50’s and the younger of
the brothers, gave most of the answers.

“We have hunted dolphins for many
years. My father hunted them before me
and his father before him. Our family has
caught dolphins since 1919 and we want to
preserve the tradition. We have to kill the
dolphins because they eat our fish. But
there are fewer dolphins each year and
they are more difficult to find.

“We hunt from the beginning of October
until the end of June, except this year the
government ordered the season to close on
20 May. We go between 18 and 100 miles
from shore and catch about 2000 dolphins
for each boat in a season and sell them to
the factory in Trabzon. The oil is used for
leather tanning and industrial lubricants
and the meat is used for animal feed.

“There used to be another factory, a
private one in Istanbul, which paid more
for the dolphins, but it has closed. Now
there is only the government station in
Trabzon. All the hunters complain the price
is too low. We cannot make any money
catching dolphins.” I asked why in that
case they didn’t catch fish. “We cannot af-
ford to buy the nets” was the reply.

Next morning we drove to Trabzon. The
manager there was hospitable and
cooperative. He pointed to a long line of
barrels on the quay which contained
dolphin oil. They were unsold from the
1981 catch, he told us. Prices depended
on demand and there was no demand.
This year there were about 20 boats hunt—
ing dolphins.

We were shown the factory and given
permission to take photographs. First we
saw the newer section which contained the
most modern Canadian and German
technology for processing and packing
fishmeal. We were then taken to the older
part of the station where the stench of
decaying dolphin carcasses turned my
stomach. As we began to take photos a
short man in a suit approached, looking
very excited and hostile. While he spoke to
our guide in Turkish 1 urged David Higgs to
take his photos quickly and to assume this
would be our only opportunity. Our guide
informed us that the short man was a
biologist who was opposed to us being
there.

We climbed some metal stairs and came
upon an unbelievable sight. In a room
about 150 feet long and 50 feet wide were
more than a thousand dolphins, some piled
four or five high. At the far end of the room
there; were hundreds of skinned carcasses
and in the middle was a man with a long
knife cutting the dolphin’s skins and fat
from their bodies. He would cut across the
head, slice it down the middle, then peel off
the outer layer. As we watched he skinned
a pregnant female and pulled a perfectly
formed fetus from its belly.

 

When we stopped to thank the manager
he looked very worried and insisted that we
join him for another glass of tea. He was
very concerned that stories would appear
in the foreign press about the dolphin kill.
Tension hung in the air like an unspoken
threat and for a few minutes no one spoke.
I sensed that he wanted to ask us for the
photos we had just taken, but he couldn’t
summon the courage to do so. He asked to
see our letter from the Foreign Ministry,
copied it and telephoned his superior. We
then left.

Two hours later there was a knock on
the door of our hotel room. It was our
guide with two men in suits, one of whom
held a walkie-talkie. “These are security
police,” said our guide. “They want to take
me for questioning and they want your
passports.” Before they left, the security
police instructed us not to leave the hotel
and told our guide, “We will return for the
photos.”

Cakes of chicken feed made from dolphin meat.

David and I spent the next hour search—
ing for places to hide the film. We decided
to surrender one of the rolls with several
dummy rolls if we had to. Our guide
returned and said that it was not an
unusual thing to happen since the military
had' taken power.

The police came back the next day and
took our guide away for two hours of fur-
ther questioning. But thankfully the follow-
ing morning they returned our passports

and allowed us to leave—with the photos.
We then drove towards the Russian

border, stopping to interview other dolphin
hunters we met.

David finally flew home with the photos
three days before me. I wanted to try to ob-
tain the catch statistics for the dolphin hunt
for the years 1976—81. Although I can’t
reveal how I did this I was ultimately suc-

cessful.
Throughout the late 1970’s tens of

thousands of dolphins were killed annually
by Turkish hunters. In 1980 the catch was
more than 54,000. In 1981 it dropped to
about 10,000, and harbor porpoises,
rather than common dolphins, comprised
most of the catch. The same pattern had
shown up in the Soviet dolphin catch in
1964 when their dolphin population began
to collapse. Now the dolphins around
Turkish waters are experiencing the same
fate.

Extractedfrom an article by Allan Thornton
in a recent issue of the Sunday Express.

Higgs. People '5 Trust for Endangered Species

 

 




 

UFAW Symposium papers
now available

The Universities Federation for Animal
Welfare has published the Proceedings of
the Symposium it conducted last year on
Alternatives to Intensive Husbandry
Systems. The 104-page volume contains
an excellent paper by Alex Stolba, Ph.D.,
at the School of Agriculture, Edinburgh
University, “A Family System in Enriched
Pens as a Novel Method of Pig Housing.”
Dr. Stolba’s study was made up of three
parts. “During the first stage of the study
large white pigs were put into a genuinely
rich, semi-natural enclosure and their
behavioural actions studied in detail.” In
the second stage, they were put into a
much smaller but still rich area. In the third,
the “recognised clue features” of pig
behavior were met in a covered straw-
bedded open-front pen of 3 m X9 m.

“A variety of features are included that
were consistently found to be guiding the
pigs’ behaviour in the outdoor reference
environment:

“1. A roofed and an open part of the
pen to re—create a forest border habitat.

“2. The provision of the main feeding
area away from the nest site, in the activity
area.

“3. A nest site sheltered against wind
but with open View out of the pen through
the front gate.

“4. In the reference environment the
nest is generally against two bushes which
are permeable, and farrowing rails and pen
walls provide these features.

“5. Space for a nest of 2 to 3 m in
diameter.

“6. A side for defaecating in the
morning, which is provided at a suitable
distance at 4.5 to 1 1 m away from the nest.

“7. A corridor for defaecation during
day time which resembles the wide lanes
between bushes which the pigs preferred

outside.

“8. Suitable materials for digging and
wallowing, in this case peat or bark in the
rooting area and a Ievering bar.

“9. A rack for gathering straw
sheaves, and a post for comfort and mark-
ing behaviour, both in the activity area.

“10. SuffiCient individual space while
feeding, achieved here by head partitions
between small feeding stalls.

“11. A possibility for escape behind the
partition wall of the rooting area, to enable
animals under social tension to keep
apart.”

Of “the pig family system,” Dr. Stolba
writes: “In the enriched pens [it] is based
on 4 adult sows, always kept together in 4
pens freely connected through the defaeca-
tion corridor. They farrow in these pens
and their offspring grow up there without
artificial weaning and mixing.” Under this
system, the sows are never confined to
stalls either while gestating or during far-

8

rowing, and it avoids the early weaning
which is so hard on all the pigs.

“Free Range Egg Production”, a paper
presented by Martin Pitt of Levetts Farm,
describes his successful method which pro-
vides nest boxes for the hens and an op-
portunity to go into outside runs. Feeding
is automated in the aviary houses, the most
recent of which has three tiers of slatted
floors and some nest boxes 8 feet above
ﬂoor level. Levetts Farm eggs sell for more
than battery eggs. “Two things I am certain
of,” says Pitt. “The eggs I sell are better
than most and the hens I keep are happier
than most.”

Veal calves were discussed in papers by
Professor John Webster of the University of
Bristol and Dr. Philip Paxman of Volac
Ltd. Dr. Roger Ewbank, Director of
UFAW, made the opening statement,
followed by Ruth Harrison’s discussion of
“The Welfare Requirements of Husbandry
Systems.”

Problems with the British government’s
experimental aviary system were discussed
by Dr. Mandy Hill of Gleadthorpe, while
Dr. P.G.C. Dunn gave a paper, “Intensive
Farming—The Grand Delusion,” in which
he criticized, from a veterinarian’s view-
point, the current trend. Under the
heading “Energy intensive rather than
labour intensive,” he states: “The situation
now prevails that although one stockperson
can husband more calves in a large shed, a

 

vast army of technicians, factory workers
and salesmen are employed by drug firms
so that antibiotics may be administered to
prevent the consequences of diseases (eg.
calf scour) that are induced by this system
of husbandry. . ..Another result of the
reduction in labour is the increase in the
use of fossil fuel. . . .The labour saving ob—
jective of intensive farming means that
housing must be designed with ease of
cleaning as a high priority, and thus the
comfort of the animal becomes a low
priority. Hence the absence of bed—
ding—wet and easily hosed-down accom-
modation is the modern trend. This type of
housing predisposes to such conditions as
environmental mastitis in cows and leg
sores in stalled sows kept without straw.
These problems are of course ‘solved’ by
the veterinary profession supplying more
drugs. It is my opinion that we are helping
the system to ‘limp along,’ when withdraw—
ing support might have a more useful,
long-lasting impact.” Under the headings
“Increased herd and flock size,” “Reduced
species diversity,” and “Misuse of drugs”
he discusses further increased disease.

Other speakers dealt with economic
aspects and additional alternative methods.
The proceedings of this symposium are
well worth reading. Copies may be obtained
from UFAW, 8 Hamilton Close, South
Mimms, Potters Bar, Hertfordshire,
England for 993/65, or $7.00.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

?
I | Front Gate / :
1m I l
. FAECES CORRIDOR l._ Gate
I l (opt.)
_. _ _. I— _ _ _. 3 _____
Threshold /
ROOTING AREA
2,5m ‘ Peat/Bark ”
Levering Bars
L a:
‘ Water
Trough
I Rubbi I
la Post ng
__ C '
3m ACTIVITY AREA ﬁ—[eep Ra”
Straw
:l Straw Rack —-E
.—.—.———.—.——. ll
——lr——— . 3 C —————— '{l
Feed Stalls Gate (opt.)
2.5m NESTING AREA
Straw
Farrowing Rail &
Treatment Stall (opt.)
1m REAR PASSAGEWAY

Groundplan of the enriched pen.

 

 

 




 

 

The real price
of eggs

In Britain the living space we allocate for
each of our 50 million battery hens is
roughly seven inches by ten. The living
space which the Ministry of Agriculture
hopes to gain for our battery hens “after a
reasonable transitional period” is a massive
nine inches by ten. They see this as
heralding a new dawn of enlightenment.

But to put it into perspective, it means
that these brave new hens will be enjoying
a living space of less than a sheet of fools-
cap paper. They stand for 1 7 out of each
24 hours on a sloping wire floor, and
crouch on the same floor for the remaining
seven hours of darkness. And please do
not tell me that battery hens are happy
because they lay eggs. They really cannot
help it. These are the facts, and they are
justified solely on the grounds that this
method provides marginally cheaper eggs.

Anyone who has studied the social life of
birds carefully will know that theirs is a sub-
tle and complex world, where food and
water are only a small part of their
behavioral needs. The brain of each bird is
programmed with a complicated set of
drives and responses which set it on the
path to a life full of special territorial,
nesting, roosting, grooming, parental, ag-
gressive and sexual activities, in addition to
the simple feeding behavior. All these other
activities are totally denied the battery
hens.

Seeing ourselves today as part of evolu-
tion we have at last become concerned
about the creatures with which we share
this planet. But somewhere along the line
those long-suffering servants of ours, the
food-producing farm animals, have lost
out. Their lot has worsened.

The moral, if you happen to be a bird or
a mammal, is not to provide mankind with
any valuable form of food. If you merely
provide companionship as a pet, or beauty
as a wild creature, you will be well treated;
but if you give more—if you provide your
eggs, or your meat, for human suste-
nance— your reward will be a life sentence
in an animal concentration camp.

Extracted from an article by Desmond Morris
in a recent issue of The Sunday Telegraph.

Information on farm

animals

Food Animal Concerns Trust (FACT), a
new organization founded by Robert
Brown, issues information on intensive and
alternative methods of livestock and
poultry rearing. For Subscription informa-
tion write: Food Animal Concerns Trust
(FACT, Inc.) PO. Box 14599, Chicago,
IL 60614.

. '35.. .

s

ﬁﬁﬁ

   

1/' Jl'

 

The measure of cruelty. The wingspan of this chicken covers almost 3 three-bird battery cages, each
of which is 12” wide.

Farm Animal Welfare Discussed at Major

Veterinary Meeting

Intensive practices in maintaining
livestock and poultry were discussed at the
annual meeting of the Animal Welfare
Committee of the US. Animal Health
Association in Nashville, Tennessee, 9
November. USAHA is the long-established
organization of federal and state regulatory
veterinarians which holds a five-day meeting
each year.

Government, industry, academic research
and animal welfare concerns were
represented by Dr. Dyarl King of the US.
Department of Agriculture, James Mallman
of Provimi, Dr. Stanley Curtis of the Univer-
sity of Illinois and Diane Halverson of the
Animal Welfare Institute. Dr. King reported
on progress of the research underway using
a $380,000 USDA grant to study stress pro-
duced by different types of intensive
methods. Dr. Curtis told of his European
trip to interview producers, farm groups,
animal welfare activists, government per-
sonnel, and scientists about current activities
abroad. He noted that his four-week trip
was paid for by the American Meat Institute,
American Farm Bureau and the National
Pork Producers Council. Speaking of farm
animal welfare regulations in Switzerland
and Sweden, he said, “Many people told us
they expected to see things turning back in
Sweden.”

Diane Halverson’s experience in the
seven countries ,she visited over a two-
month period was decidedly more positive.
She showed slides of mechanized houses for
laying hens in Switzerland which do not
confine the birds to cages but allow them to
choose scratching in litter, roosting on rails,

laying eggs in a nest, stretching and ﬂapping
their wings, and similar activities engaged in
by hens from time immemorial. She described
the development of the pig family unit at the
University of Edinburgh (see page 8 of this
Quarterly) and its replication financed by the
British Ministry of Agriculture. Veal calves
on working farms, kept on thick straw bed—
ding in group pens, were shown on the
screen as were gestating sows in Sweden
free to move about from feeding to resting
areas.

Mallman reported on research being con-
ducted at Provimi using ad lib feeding from
artificial teats and group pens with straw
bedding or slats for veal calves.

Neal Black of Livestock Conservation,
Incorporated reported that in response to
curriculum guides prepared by the Humane
Society of the United States on farm
animals, a number of groups in agriculture
have produced “a more realistic educational
approach” now being distributed to Iowa
schools.

Three resolutions were passed by the
Animal Welfare Committee commending
government agencies for law enforcement
and members of Congress for legislative
efforts on behalf of laboratory animals and
horses being transported to slaughter
houses; however, only the fourth resolution
was adopted by the full U.S. Animal Health
Association: “Be it Resolved that advances
in farm animal welfare based on scientific
studies and practical application in the
United States and abroad be further
encouraged by the US. Animal Health
Association . ”

 

 




 

 

Books

America the
Poisoned.

Lewis Regenstein. Acropolis Books,
Washington, DC 20009, 1982, 414
pages. $16.95. (Available from Fund
for Animals, New York 10019, at
wholesale rates.)

The subtitle is: “How deadly chemicals
are destroying our environment, our
wildlife, ourselves and—howwe can sur—
vive!” This is a tall order, which Mr. Regen—
stein has clearly worked diligently to ad—
dress. His 18 pages of fine-print reference
footnotes range from newspaper stories to
court cases and governmental hearings and
documents, reﬂecting the essentially case
history nature of the text. Interpretation of
some fine points may vary, but the overall
picture is well shown. Those wishing more
detailed information can trace much of the
material back to original sources and
authorities. For those unfamiliar with these
critical problems, this book can be a vivid
eye-opener and call to action, mainly to ex-
ert pressure on government to enforce the
laws we have and to improve them, and to
remove from office those who put im—
mediate profits ahead of environmental and
human health.

— Shirley A. Briggs

 

Poisonous chemical being poured into a drum.

Humane Education
. Materials

The American Humane Association has
published a Directory for Humane Educa-
tion Materials. Intended for students and
teachers alike, the directory identifies 61
organizations from which materials can be
had, is cross—referenced by states, by sub-
ject matter and by contributions, and gives
guidance on age appropriateness. It can be
obtained from: The American Humane
Association, 9725 East Hampden Avenue,
Denver, Colorado 80231 for $7.50.

10

      

 

Dr. Schweitzer with a fawn.

Animals, Nature &
Albert Schweitzer

Editing and Commentary by Ann Cot-
trell Free. (Available from the Animal
Welfare Institute at $4.50.)

Most literate people know something
about Dr. Schweitzer and “reverence
for life.” This remarkable book fills in
that knowledge by tracing the develop-
ment and implication of Schweitzer’s
moral philosophy in a deceptively sim-
ple and clear way. The book consists of
81 pages of well-organized quotes from
Schweitzer, brief editorial comments
and fascinating photographs and, like
Schweitzer’s life itself, can be ap-
preciated at many levels, depending on
one’s capacities and experiences. A
ten-year-old could enjoy it as much as a
philosopher, though for different
reasons.

There is, first, the story of a com-
plex, courageous man. By the age of
30, Schweitzer held two doctorates
and was an acclaimed organist and
theologian. He then studied medicine
and at age 38 established a medical
mission in French Equatorial Africa
where he spent much of the rest of his
life. He also lectured widely, gave
organ recitals, and wrote books.

These achievements were part of
Schweitzer’s attempt to work out a
coherent philosophy of life. The book
traces his struggle with conﬂicting feel-

ings and confused thoughts as he tries
to clearly conceptualize and articulate a

unified philosophy. “To think out in

Erica Anderson

 

Books

every implication the ethic of love for all
creation—this is the difficult task which
confronts our age,” and Schweitzer
took it as the central task of his own life.
This book, which is published by the
Animal Welfare Institute, the Humane
Society of the United States, the Albert
Schweitzer Fellowship, and the Albert
Schweitzer Center, is carefully
documented and includes a useful
bibliography. It is a valuable contribu-
tion to everyone who has taken upon
himself Schweitzer’s task—to think out
in every implication the ethic of love for
all creation.
— Connie Kagan
November, 1982

Red Data Book

Part I of IUCN’s new Amphibia-Reptilia
Red Data Book has been published. Fully
revised, it covers 83 threatened taxa in the
orders Rhynchocephalia, Crocodylia and
Testudines from all zoogeographic regions.
It costs $21 (including postage) from:
Unipub, 345 Park Avenue South, New
York, NY 10010. Alternatively it can be
ordered direct from: IUCN Conservation
Monitoring Unit, 219C Huntingdon Road,
Cambridge, England. Part I of the new
Mammal Red Data Book is also available at
the same price.

1080, The Case Against
Poisoning Our Wildlife

The facts on poison 1080 are well pre—
sented in a 20—page illustrated booklet
published by Defenders of Wildlife. Testi-
mony by 19 experts is included together
with supporting documentation. The
extreme cruelty of 1080 was shown in a
scientific film at hearings. Nevertheless,
the Administrative Law Judge recom-
mended use of this painful, slow-acting
poison which causes victims to run
uncontrollably and to die hours later in
convulsions. The Environmental Protec-
tion Agency has not yet made a final rul-
ing as to whether the existing ban on
1080 for killing predators will remain or
be lifted. Citizens wishing to express an
opinion can write to Mrs. Ann Gorsuch,
Administrator, Environmental Protection
Agency, Wasterside, 401 M Street,
S.W., Washington, DC. 20460.

Copies of 1080, the Case Against
Poisoning our Wildlife may be obtained
from Defenders of Wildlife, 1244 Nine—
teenth Street, N.W., Washington, DC.
20036.

 




 

Happy ending to a
New Zealand tale of
stranded dolphins

It was the terrier who first sounded the
alarm. Trotting along beside his master, a
New Zealand seaside farmer, in the half—
light of a March dawn he suddenly halted
with his gaze toward the beach and began
barking excitedly. Investigation disclosed
an astonishing sight: a herd of dolphins,
some on their bellies, some on their sides,
stranded by the receding tide and now 800
yards from the haven of the sea.

After scolding them for their folly, the
farmer administered some reassuring pats
and splashes with water from adjacent
pools, then hurried off to summon help.
Within 30 minutes neighboring farmers
and their wives were arriving with buckets
and sacks and, in one case, bed covers.
Holes were dug which quickly filled with
seepage water; the sacks were immersed
and then, when saturated, pulled out to
cover the dolphins. By 8:30 am. as many
as 60 helpers were on the scene including
the children from the local school.

._,.\ _\.

   

Frank D. Robson

Stranded dolphin being rescued byheicopter.

Meanwhile officials had been notified.
They came with mesh net-slings such as
are used in New Zealand for rescuing deer.
It was not low tide and the sea was- further
away than ever. So it was decided to call a
helicopter. Half of the rescuers took up
position waist deep in the sea; the other
half loaded the dolphins on to the sling and
then hooked the sling to the helicopter.
One by one the animals were lifted from
the one team to the other. Within an hour
all were once more happily swimming in
the sea.

Was the helicopter strictly necessary?
Probably not. Stress can be a killer for
stranded cetacea and helicopters are inev-
itably noisy and stress-producing. These
dolphins were, quite properly, being kept
cool and wet and tranquil by their obvi-
ously friendly human helpers.

“From 20 years of practical experience
in the whale—stranding field,” writes Frank
Robson who sent this report to AWI, “I
have no doubt that in the absence of a
helicopter to lift this herd, the abundance
of farmer intuition and interspecies com-
munication which was evident at the scene
would have assured a successful rescue at
high tide. Rescuers should persist in trying
and not give up just because a ‘chauffeur’ is
not available at a stranding scene,” says
Robson, co-author of Strandings, a
manual on stranded cetacea which is now
in press.

For notification of the publication you
can write to Nick Carter, PO. Box 156,
Hout Bay 7872, Republic of South Africa.
Published by the Scientific Press Ltd., of
Johannesburg, the book also will be
simultaneously published in the United
States and the United Kingdom. The price
will be about $20.

 

Correction: In error, the Summer 1982
edition of Volume 31 of the Quarterly was
marked #3 when it should have been #2.
We regret any inconvenience this may
have caused our readers.

Wild America

Wild America, a series of 10 half-hour
programs, is currently appearing on PBS
television each Thursday evening (8:30
PM. Eastern Time). It is the first TV series
to deal exclusively with American wildlife
and the material represents 10 years of
constant filming by naturalist Marty
Stouffer.

 

SKEEZER, the wonderful story by
Elizabeth Yates McGreal about a
mongrel dog originally intended for
use in a medical research labora-
tory, who became a therapeutic
companion for disturbed youngsters
in a children’s psychiatric hospital,
will be NBC’s Monday Night Movie
on December 27th. Check your
local listings so you don’t miss this
heartwarming true story about a
dog’s love and the comfort it brings
to children. Skeezer is a true story
first reported in The Ann Arbor
News, then in the Animal Welfare
Institute Information Report from
which Mrs. McGreal learned of this
dog's achievements in restoring
children to health.

 

Animal Welfare Institute

Scientific Committee

Marjorie Anchel, PhD.
Bennett Derby, M.D.

F. Barbara Orlans, PhD.
Roger Payne, Ph.D.
Samuel Peacock, MD.
John Walsh, M.D.

International Committee

T.G. Antikatzides, D.V.M.—Greece
Angela King—United Kingdom
David Ricardo—Canada

N.E. Wernberg—Denmark
Godofredo Stutzin—Chile

Simon Muchiru—Kenya

Officers

Christine Stevens, President
Cynthia Wilson, Vice President
Marjorie Cooke, Secretary
Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer

Directors

John Beary, M.D.
Madeleine Bemelmans
Gerard Bertrand
Marjorie Cooke
Christabel Gough
David 0. Hill

Sue Hunt

Freeborn G. Jewett, Jr.
Christine Stevens
Aileen Train

Cynthia Wilson

 

Staff

Patrick Allen, Editorial Consultant
Maria Gulino, Administrative Assistant

 

Diane Halverson, Research Associate

Lynne Hutchison, Whale Campaign Secretary

Fran Lipscomb, Executive Assistant
Felicity Luebke, Publications Secretary

Cathy Liss, Administrative Assistant
Nell Naughton, Mail Order Secretary
Greta Nilsson, Wildlife Consultant
Adele Schoepperle, Assistant Treasurer

 

 

11

 




 

 

British Columbia bans steel jaw trap

for seven species

From October 13, 1982, live box
traps or killing traps must be substituted
for steel jaw leghold traps when catching
wolverine, martin, fisher, weasel,
skunk, squirrel and raccoon in British
Columbia. The announcement was
made by Minister of the Environment
Stephen Rogers who said the new
regulations mark important advances
toward more humane trapping. He
noted that the banned traps were
charged with causing “prolonged suf-
fering by injuring and holding an animal
rather than killing it outright.”

Although steel jaw leghold traps are
still allowed for beaver, otter, muskrat
and mink, the regulations require a
submerging device so that the animal is
held under water and drowned.

Coyotes, wolves, bobcat and lynx
may still be caught with steel jaw traps
on land. The traps must be either
padded or offset by 3/16 of an inch to
reduce the impact. This is not an ade-
quate solution, but it gives recognition
to the pain and injury caused by this an-
tiquated device.

Periodical Pleasures

by John Gleiber

It really is no longer safe to be man’s
best friend in the USSR. In the
West, there is legislation and increas-
ing pressure for more laws that will
permit the elderly to keep pets in rental
or subsidized housing. The theory is
that they will provide love and warmth

and companionship that might other—
wise be lacking in a lonely pensioner’s
quiet existence. But, beware of those
elderly,lonely women if you are an
unaccompanied dog in a Russian
street or even in your family’s garden.
That sweet-faced babushka heading
toward you with a capitalistic glint in
her eye might be planning to turn you
into a newly fashionable “dog hat.”
According to The Current Digest of
the Soviet Press (Vol. XXXIV, No.
11), most of the dealers in dog hats

Animal Welfare Institute
P.O. Box 3650
Washington, D.C. 20007

are persons of retirement age. One old
woman apprehended by the law ex-
plained, “It supplements my pension.”
Though it’s illegal, the trade in these
hats is brisk and the prices inflated. To
top it off, in enlightened Russia, if you
are caught killing and skinning some—
one’s pet, you’ll be prosecuted for
theft and not for cruelty.

In another issue, just before a de-
mand that the car rental system be
brought back (the revenues are good
for the state), there is a spirited request
for larger, much larger printings of the
upcoming second edition of the Soviet
Red Data Book which lists endangered
and vulnerable wildlife. The 10,000—
copy printing of the 1978 edition

proved to be insultingly inadequate for
all of Mother Russia. A. Berestova

. I; IV: ”3am” I - . .2“... ‘ III._W’”:""
This Canadian squirrel has dislocated its
foreleg in struggling to escape. This cruel
trap is now banned for squirrels in British

Columbia.

writes in the Literaturnaya Gazeta:
“There should be a sufficient quantity
of these Red Data Books in all
libraries, including rural libraries. All
enterprises and every school should
have them. This will permit activists to
disseminate necessary information
and conduct propaganda work.”

(Italics mine.)
The Digest is well worth keeping in

mind. We first learned of it when they
sent us an issue which printed the Rus-
sian Nature Protection Law in its entirety
Since 1949, it has been published
weekly by the American Association for
the Advancement of Slavic Studies
working out of 1314 Kinnear Road,
Columbus, OH 43212. A long way
from Minsk.

 




THE

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

QUARTERLY

 

P.O. Box 3650 Washington, D.C. 20007

Winter 1982

Vol. 30, No. 4

 

We must protect this

endangered Act

The Endangered Species Act comes up for renewal this
year. The struggle to get a strong and properly funded bill
through both Houses of Congress and on to the presiden-
tial desk for signature before 1 October is likely to be
hard. There are those even within the agencies sup-
posedly in the business of guarding our wildlife heritage
who are seeking to emasculate the Act.

The required bill will be drafted by the
Senate Environmental Pollution Sub-
committee. It has already signalled its
unequivocal commitment to the protec-
tion of endangered species. At the
preliminary hearings in December to
take expert opinion before drafting
begins, the chairman, Senator Chafee
(R, RI) said: “The concern of this com-
mittee goes far beyond spectacular

 

Unless the erosion of nature
is halted, much of what is
now unknown will disappear
before it is known.
Thomas Eisner, Professor
of Biology, Cornell

 

mammals—right down the chain of life
and the whole ecosystem.”

First to testify at the hearings were
representatives of the National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration, Fish
and Wildlife Service and Department of
Justice. They made no immediate
recommendations but said, rather
ominously, that they would be propos-
ing substantial changes later.

A primary question was: Does the Act
as it now stands work? In one important
respect it seems it does. The environ-
mental Defense Fund (EDF) testified
that in the eight years of the Act’s life,
well under 2% of “consultations” be-
tween industry and the guardians of the
Act, the Fish and Wildlife Service, have

Photo: Hope Ryden

A young bobcat at water’s edge

led to a requirement that industry modi-
fy its development plans. And most
modifications have been neither time-

continued on page 2

Monkey trial —
the verdict is guilty!

On November 23rd, Judge Stanley
Klavan found Dr Edward Taub, Director of
the Institute for Behavioral Research (IBR),
guilty on six counts of cruelty to animals.
The six counts corresponded with six
monkeys denied veterinary care despite
their extreme need for treatment.

Montgomery County Prosecutor, Roger
Galvin, documented in detail the condition
of each animal with photographs and
x-rays. He pointed out that all the experts
testified that the missing digits and purulent
wounds were portals for the introduction of
infection and that such infection was not
confined to the limbs which had been sub—
ject to surgical deafferentation. Dr Taub’s
research involved the study of‘ monkeys
after they had been deprived of sensory
nerve conduction in one or two limbs.
Constant self-mutilation of these limbs was
a most serious problem (see photographs
in the Winter 1981 AWI Quarterly).

On the final day of the trial, the judge
raised the question of lack of sensation in
the deafferented limb, and the prosecutor
pointed out that in some of the monkeys
there were missing digits on the “normal”
limbs also. Mr Galvin described in his sum-
mation the condition of all the monkeys.
Those named by the judge as individual
counts of cruelty were: Nero, Big Boy,
Paul, Domitian, Titus and Billy.

Nero suffered from osteomyelitis, with a
draining lesion on the palm of his hand.
Paul showed massive scar tissue, with his
left wrist twice the normal size and the
fingers of his left hand reduced to stubs.
The x-rays showed the loss of architecture
of the bones—an absence of wrist bones.
Billy, both of whose arms had been deaf-
ferented, showed bandage trauma with
four digits dissolving from infection and a
fracture which had not been reduced. The
National Institutes of Health, which is
holding the monkeys pending a decision
on their final disposition, was compelled to
amputate Paul’s arm in order to save his
life.

The NIH report which found the housing

continued on page 8

 




 

Endangered Act — continued

consuming nor expensive. “Not a single
project has been permanently halted”
said Michael Bean of the EDF. The fur-
ther point was made that such few de-
lays as have occurred have seldom if
ever been the sole “fault” of the Endan-
gered Species Act. Other factors were
also involved.

However in the important area of
listing species recently found to be en-
dangered, the Act’s administration has

 

Fully 40% of all prescriptions
written in the United States
contain as their chief ingre-
dients compounds derived
from plants.
Thomas Eisner, Professor
of Biology, Cornell

 

slowed to a snail’s pace. Senator Mitch-
ell (D, ME), a member of the Subcom-
mittee, commenting on this dismal
record said: “Priorities for listing are
academic if there is no listing.”
Another bone of contention is fund-
ing. As part of the overall cutback the
Administration would like to axe the
Fish and Wildlife Service’s Endangered
Species Program budget—from the $24
million requested by the Service down
to $14 million. Congress has proposed
funding at last year’s level of around $20
million. Senator Chafee, with studied
understatement, pointed out that in a

 

We are still too ignorant of
ultimate consequences to
understand in full the urgent
need to protect even the
most inconspicuous forms of
life so that we do not dimin-
ish the rich variety of biologi-
cal resources that continue
to exist.

James Buckley, Under
Secretary of State for Security
Assistance, Science and
Technology.

 

total federal budget of $700 billion, the
money being requested for protecting
tomorrow’s inheritance and options is
“very modest.”

Scientists’ contribution

A most notable contribution to the
hearings was the testimony of certain
well-known scientists. Professor E.O.
Wilson of Harvard University, author of

2

the landmark Sociobiology, pleaded for
a deeper conservation ethic: “A species
is like a magic well; the more you draw
from it, the more there is to

 

The extermination of a mil-
lion or more plants in the
coming few decades could
lose forever the medicines
and food sources we need to
cure the diseases and hunger
that plague mankind.
Peter Raven, Director
Missouri Botanical Garden

 

draw. . .possessing its own biology,
mysteries and still untested uses for
mankind. Only a tiny fraction of the
millions of species, less than 0.01%,
have been studied in any detail; most
have not even been given a scientific
name. . ..The loss of genetic and
species diversity by the destruction of
natural habitats is the folly our descen-
dants are least likely to forgive.”

The potential value of these
unstudied and untapped resources was

 

Who can speak to the poten-
tial economic importance of
the millions of species of
plants and animals that coex-
ist with us now, and who is
wise enough to decree that
any of them should be con-
signed to extinction?
Peter Raven, Director
Missouri Botanical Garden

 

highlighted by Thomas Eisner, Division
of Biological Sciences, Cornell: “In our
own laboratory in the last few years,
working as a relatively modest group of
5 to 7 researchers, we have isolated (1)
potential heart drugs from ﬁreﬂies, (2) a
cockroach repellent from a millipede, (3)
a nerve drug from another millipede and
(4) shark repellents from a marine
mollusk.”

Peter Raven, Director of the Missouri
Botanical Garden, supplemented this
testimony with a cautionary tale from
the world of plants. The humble evening
primrose has suddenly been taken up in
a big way by giant chemical concerns. It
has been found to contain gamma-
linolenic acid (the only other known
natural source is human milk), the most
active of all essential fatty acids in
correcting deficiencies which seem to
lead to many hard—to-cure diseases. “In
other words,” said Raven, “oil derived

from the seeds of these wildflowers may
prove to play an essential role in helping
us to avoid coronary heart disease and
to cure such complaints as eczema and
arthritis that afflict millions of people in
the US.”

Now comes the cautionary part. A
listed plant in California is the chemically
unknown Antioch Dunes evening prim-

 

ln pushing other species to
extinction, humanity is busily
sawing off the limb on which
it is perched.
Paul Ehrlich, Professor of
Population Studies, Stanford

 

rose. But, says Raven. its listing was
“primarily because it happened to occur
in a locality where there were two
species of endangered butterﬂies.” So
thanks to these two species of butterflies
a natural drug store of quite unexpected
potential richness survives to be ex-
plored. But how easily it could have
been otherwise!

Protecting endangered species means
protecting their habitats. Industry and
the federal agencies are calling for a

continued on page 4

600 million Chinese

will plant trees

Worried by widespread deforestation
China has launched a nationwide cam-
paign to reverse the trend. All citizens over
the age of 11 are being urged to plant from
three to five trees a year. At present 12.7%
of the country is wooded. The goal is 20%.

A former Minister of Forestry. Mr. Luo,
now an adviser to the government. has
said: “About 600 million Chinese will be
able to join the tree-planting drive. This
should mean two to three billion trees
added each year.”

The newspaper. People's Daily. asserts
that although some 250 million acres have
in theory been reforested in the last 30
years, nearly three-quarters of this acreage
have no new trees. Inferior seedlings and
poor management are blamed.

During the Cultural Revolution trees
were felled with no thought of replanting.
in order to exceed work quotas. And with
peasants still tearing off bark and branches
for firewood, the land around Peking has
become a desert. Dust storms plague the
city.

Floods too have been a problem. In
1981 they did great damage in Sichuan
and Shaanxi provinces. The cause?
Careless tree—felling.

 

 




 

 

Spain to end whaling

The Spanish government has decided to
support the moratorium on commercial
whaling at the next meeting of the Interna—
tional Whaling Commission and to end
Spanish whaling. A news report in El Pais
18 December 1981 states in part: “The
Commission of Agriculture of the National
Assembly approved yesterday, with the
sole opposition of the Union of Central
Democrats, a motion that the delegation of
the Spanish administration before the IWC
will vote in favour of the moratorium on
the fishing of whales. With this resolution,
Spain incorporates herself with the conser—
vationist block at the IWC, and abandons
the sector headed by Japan and the USSR
which until now has impeded, with only a
third of their votes, an end to the commer—
cial capture of the whales.”

The decision was a result of a motion
formalized by the Spanish Parliament on
21 July 1981 consisting of five points
including the absorption of whaling
industry workers into fishing activities,
refusal of the government to permit an in-
crease in the whaling fleet, and inclusion of
assistance from associations for the defense
of nature in the Spanish Delegation to the

IWC as well as the above-mentioned
moratorium vote and the ending of
Spanish whaling. The vote on the motion,
first taken November 5th, was a tie. On 16
December the motion was approved by 16
votes to 10. At the time of the debate, the
Minister for Agriculture was Lamo de
Spinosa who is now Spokesman for the
Parliamentary Group of the Union of Cen-
tral Democrats. This democratic decision to
protect whales represents the greatest vic-
tory since Australia went out of whaling in
1978.

It is interesting to note that the Spanish
Parliamentary motion on whale protection
states that Japan is Spain’s exclusive buyer
of whale products and that Spain joined
the IWC after Japan passed a law prohibit-
ing importation of whale products from
countries that were not members of the
IWC. Japan was compelled to pass this law
because of the international outcry against
pirate whalers.

Thus, the pirate whaler “Sierra,” whose
misdeeds brought about IWC action
against commerce by IWC members with
nonmember countries, led to this major
reversal of policy.

 

fin whale from AWI president.

 

 

King Juan Carlos and Queen Sofia accept John Perry 3 sculptured

 

 

 

Wildlife trade

Included in the latest IUCN Traffic
Bulletin is a very thorough 13-page report
by Tim Inskipp on the Indian Trade in Rep-
tile Skins. Other subjects covered are the
Japanese Trade in Himalayan Musk and
the Coral Trade in the Philippines. Write
to: Conservation Monitoring Centre, 219C
Huntingdon Road, Cambridge, England.

Environmental shirts

Short of shirts? Well, no matter even if your
wardrobe is stuffed with them, there’s
always room for another one. Especially in
a good cause. Environmental shirts, to
your own design or from present stock,
come pretty and pretty inexpensive from:
Share the Earth, Jim Morris, PO. Box
2308, Boulder, Colorado 80306.

Japan, USSR, Iceland,
Norway “object”
to IWC decisions

An end to sperm whaling and
a ban on the use of the cold
(non-explosive) harpoon were
the two chief gains at last sum-
mer’s meeting of the Interna-
tional Whaling Commission in
Brighton, England. Now both
these decisions-the one ar-
rived at by an overwhelming ma-
jority (25-1), the other by con-
sensus- are being challenged.

Japan has filed an objection to the
new embargo on sperm whaling in the
western North Pacific (elsewhere
sperm whales were already protected)
even before a further meeting of the
IWC on this issue in March. Japan has
also objected, along with the Soviet
Union, Norway and Iceland, to the cold
harpoon ban on the grounds that a
humane alternative may not have been
developed in time for the 1982/83
season. And if not, so these nations are
saying, the small minke whale must con-
tinue to die a slow, agonizing death.

Japan is potentially vulnerable to
the Pelly Amendment and to the
Packwood-Magnuson Amendment.
Taken together, these Acts of Con-
gress declare that any nation contra-
vening the regulations of the IWC may
be forbidden the US. market for its
fish products and shall have its fishing
allocation within the US. 200-mile
zone cut by at least 50% and perhaps
100%.

Five Congressmen have already
taken up this point with Secretary of
State, Alexander Haig. In a letter
dated 3 December they say: “We urge
you to advise Japan of the
preponderant concern with which
Congress views their actions and to
make it clear that these objections (to
IWC decisions) will have a bearing on
fisheries allocations as is clearly per-
mitted by the so-called ‘basket clause’
of Section 201(e) of the Magnuson
Fishery Conservation and Manage-
ment Act.”

Save the Whales Sweatshirts

Keep warm this winter in AWI Save the
Whales hooded sweatshirts. Available in
three sizes: medium, large and extra large
and three colors: navy blue, gunmetal grey
and red; $15 each.

 




 

Endangered Act- continued

“balanced approach” in designating
these habitats. This may sound perfectly
sensible. But industry and agenCies are
asking that in doubtful cases the Act
should err on the side of the developer.
Our biological ignorance is very great, so
there will be many doubtful cases.
“What is the habitat of a grizzly bear?”

 

A spoonful of Virginia soil
provides greater opportuni-
ties for scientiﬁc advance
than the entire surface of
Jupiter.
Edward O. Wilson, Professor
of Science, Harvard

 

asked Senator Chafee rhetorically, “We
have heard from experts who have split
2 and 2 or 1 and 1 and 1 on this type of
question.”

Bobcat threat

Second only to the controversy about
critical habitat is that relating to a single
species—the bobcat. With most spotted
cats on Appendix I of CITES" and so
no longer tradeable, and with the rage
for spotted cats continuing unabated,
the United States’ own bobcat now in—
habits a highly prized skin, fetching as

The United States should
provide world leadership in
promoting a more enduring
conservation ethic reflected
in the protecting of all of its
endangered species.

Edward O. Wilson, Professor

of Science, Harvard

 

 

much as $650. The species is on Ap-
pendix II of CITES and so may be
traded at a level which does not imperil
survival.

This level, though, can only be deter-
mined by reliable biological data. And
for the bobcat these data are not com-
plete (see box).

Yet, as Christine Stevens pointed out
in her testimony, “State fish and game
agencies, egged on by trappers and fur
exporters, are trying to divest both the
Endangered Species Act and CITES of
their vigor, singling out for special attack
the requirement of a federal judge for

‘ Convention on International Trade in Endangered
Species of Wild Fauna and Flora.

4

 

Bobcat exports
forbidden

The American bobcat has won
another round in its fight for life. On
15 December the US. District of Co-
lumbia court denied the government’s
motion and ruled for the plaintiff
Defenders of Wildlife, stating that the
government (U.S. CITES Scientific
Authority) was in breach of CITES * in
permitting the export of 90,000 bob-
cat pelts. The ruling upheld the Court
of Appeals’ decision of the previous
July.

Bobcats are now on Appendix II of
CITES. This means that exports are
permitted only where the country of
origin determines, from scientific data,
that trade “will not be detrimental to
the survival of the species.”

The Court of Appeals had ruled
that a valid no-detriment finding re-
quires “(1) a reliable estimate of the
number of bobcats and (2) informa-
tion concerning the number of animals
to be killed in the particular season.”
And these data were less than ade-
quate.

Undeterred, the International
Association of Fish and Wildlife Agen-
cies and the Fur Conservation Institute
of America then requested the
Supreme Court to review the deci-
sion. The request was denied. Now
the government’s request to the
District Court to have the ban on bob-
cat exports lifted has also been turned
down.

 

 

 

reliable population estimates of bobcats
in the different states.”

If the attack succeeds, not only will
the bobcat suffer (already it is extinct in
Ohio, Indiana and Iowa) but the intema-
tional consequences could be grave.

To a ﬂattering extent many countries
look to the US. as their model on con-
servation matters. An enfeebled Act
would thus weaken the hand of those
seeking tougher protection for en-
dangered species in other lands—par-
ticularly in third world countries where
most endangered species live.

Rates of extinction worldwide are ac-
celerating—as habitats shrink before the
surge of human numbers and the rain-
forests tumble ever faster. Well-
grounded predictions state that between
now and the year 2000 the world may
lose a million species—or 20% of its
present stock. What we do within our
own borders can help to stem this ap-
palling tide of destruction.

Lacey Act given
more bite

Throughout two congressional sessions
conservationists battled hard to stiffen the
Lacey Act, one of the nation’s oldest
(1900) wildlife protection laws. Finally they
triumphed. Fines have been doubled and
other penalties stepped up.

The structure of the Act was closely
followed by the drafters of the 1972 Con-
vention on International Trade in En-
dangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora
(CITES). The Lacey Act makes it illegal to
transport in interstate or foreign commerce
any wildlife that is taken, possessed,
bought or sold in violation of the laws of
the states or of other countries.

Under the new amendments, signed into
law last November. offenders face possible
felony charges with maximum fines of
$20,000 and jail sentences of up to five
years. Conviction on misdemeanor
charges can now mean a $10,000 fine and
one year in jail. The new legislation com-
bines a similar measure protecting fish. the
Black Bass Act of 1926. and extends its
coverage for the first time to coral and to
certain plants.

A still strong
weapon

Conservationists have come to regard
the 1972 Marine Mammal Protection Act
as one of the strongest weapons in their
armory. That it has emerged from the
reauthorization process without major
weakening and in some ways strengthened
is therefore good news—doubly welcome
at a time when good news is hard to come
by.
A bill, signed into law by President
Reagan in October. renews the Act for a
further three years and contains three main
amendments:

—It equips the government with powers
to regulate the incidental take or distur—
bance of marine mammals during off-shore
activities (eg. energy development).

—It clarifies the requirement that the
tuna industry use the best techniques and
equipment to save the lives of dolphins.

—It removes the exemption granted to
Alaskan Eskimos from laws governing the
hunting of marine mammals—and in so
doing prescribes legal procedures for the
transfer of marine mammal management
from the federal government to the state.

At the same time, in the words Of
Senator Packwood. long—time friend of
marine mammals and strong supporter of
the new measures: “The bill leaves intact
the basic protective philosophy upon whiCh
the Act was founded.”

 




 

Monitor awards: unsung heroes and heroines

The second annual “Monitor Awards
for Outstanding Achievement in
Wildlife Conservation” were presented

at a reception December 12, in
Washington, DC, to ten dedicated
government employees by the heads
of their respective agencies:

Clark Bavin, Chief, Division of Law
Enforcement, Department of Interior;
Martin White, Director, Office of In-
vestigations, US. Customs Service;
and John Ford, Deputy Assistant
Secretary, Marketing and Transporta-
tion Services, Department of
Agriculture. Sculptor John Perry
donated the handsomely mounted
sperm whale figures to Monitor, USA,
the conservation, environmental and
animal welfare consortium. The
honorees and the successful programs
for which they were singled out are
listed below.

Joseph Hopkins, Deputy Chief of Law
Enforcement, US. Fish and Wildlife Serv-
ice. An agent for 27 years, he has played a

major role in shaping the Service’s law en-
forcement division to deal with the growing
sophistication of wildlife crime. One of his
major triumphs in the field was the busting
of an international fur-smuggling ring—the
Vesely-Forte case involving over 30 furriers
and nations worldwide.

David Hall, Special Agent, US. Fish
and Wildlife Service. A long-term advocate
of undercover methods, he has master-
minded several operations which have led
to successful prosecutions, including that of
the major conspirators trading in alligator
hides, walrus ivory and marine mammal
products.

Walter Soroka, Special Agent, US.
Fish and Wildlife Service. Transferred to
Alaska in June 1980, he posed for many
months as a buyer of walrus ivory, so infil-
trating and finally exposing an entire net-
work of dealers in marine mammal prod-
ucts. They are currently on trial.

Maureen Mathews, Special Agent,
US. Fish and Wildlife Service. She was
part of an inter-agency team that stopped
the importation of diseased birds to a major

Maltreated U.S. Horses Feed

Canada’s Slaughterhouses

Thin and weary with grossly over-
grown feet, this mare limps off truck to
slaughterhouse.

Since 1970 Canada has witnessed a
booming trade in horsemeat. Both the
home market in Ontario and Quebec and
the overseas market in Belgium, France,
Holland, Germany and Japan have greatly
expanded. The US. directly feeds this
trade by exporting to Canada some 30,000
horses every year.

A report from the Ontario Humane
Society (acting in concert with the Humane
Society of the United States) documents
the cruelty involved in the transporting of
these animals. Between 21 May and 30
June last year 281 horses were inspected
on arrival at the Baron Feeders plant,
Owen Sound, Ontario—one of many
slaughterhouses operated by the Univex
Company whose headquarters are in
Belgium.

    

ntario H mane Society. Ontario. Canada

    

 

The horses all came from Plains,
Wisconsin. The report states that for
reasons of previous neglect or injury no
fewer than 95 of them were unfit to travel
and “if detected in the possession of Cana—
dians would have been seized or destroyed
with a high possibility of prosecution.”
Some had grossly overgrown hooves or
severely infected legs. And “several were
shipped with their mouths tied shut with
wire or binder twine.” The Canadian
horses arriving at Barton Feeders during
this period were in notably better shape.

Under the Ontario SPCA Act the On-
tario Humane Society has issued an order
to the importers “not to accept any animal
which has obviously suffered in transit.”
The main fault, though, lies with the horse
dealers in the US. Horses are being
shipped not just to Canada but also to the
many slaughterhouses in the US. which
have sprung up in order to cash in on the
European and Japanese craving for
horsemeat. (The last decade has seen a
500% increase in the number of horses be-
ing killed every year.)

The condition at the slaughterhouses is
regulated by the US. Department of
Agriculture. Not so the transportation of
animals en route there. Senator Melcher
(D, MT) has introduced legislation that
could cure this situation. His bill, an
amendment of the federal Meat Inspection
Act, deserves support.

Miami wildlife dealer. Last winter she was
also one of a team sent to Alaska to exe-
cute search warrants culminating in many
arrests and the seizure of huge quantities of
walrus ivory.

John Shirley, Special Agent, US.
Department of Agriculture. He was recently
involved in an 18-month investigation into
the importation of diseased birds which led
to the successful prosecution of a major
Miami wildlife dealer.

Patricia Fettmann, US. Department of
Agriculture. She was successful in getting a
conviction of an unlicensed Pennsylvania
dog dealer who had been selling to
laboratory animal dealers for 10 years. The
sentence included a $500 fine and a cease
and desist order until operating conditions
are improved.

Michael O’Riordan, Special Agent,
US. Customs Service. An undercover
operator, his investigations led in 1980 to
the seizure of 55 illegally imported

continued on page 1 l

 

>>~u ., ~ - . + «u _
-- - -.~ ~=— ”I. M-.. , --~
7’ ,:: III " “ i ,5 :-

II/luu‘ {- : > , r27; .

 

, l .
i 3 ,,,,,,,,

rrrrrr

ou can really feel for the tethered hogs
in close confinement when you read about
the gay abandon and madcap enthusiasm
of the pigs who love to race at the Farm
Progress Show in Brimfield, Illinois.
According to the The Wall Street Journal,
over 2,000 devotees (and bettors) flock to
“Heinfold Downs,” a specially set up tent,
for each of the 25 races.

When the gates open, five young pigs
tear around the track so fast that the entire
race is over in four or five seconds. It
doesn’t give you much time to focus your
binoculars.

Last year’s champion was Belly Bust
who never lost a race. Her record time of
75 feet in 3.51 seconds still stands. The
winner’s trophy is an oreo cookie. Once
Belly Bust not only outpaced her porcine
competitors, but outsmarted some tricky
“handicappers”. The scoundrels dropped
an oreo in front of her when the starting
bell rang, hoping to put her off her stride.
Pausing only long enough to seize the
cookie in her jaws, she streaked across the
finish line (at 12 mph.) to grab the win-
ner’s cookie as well. Two vanilla oreos for
one super champ!

 
   

Reprinted by permission, The Wall Street Journal,
© Dow Jones & Co, Inc, 1981. All rights reserved.

 

 




 

 

“JUST IMAGINE. . .”

The following is a speech given by Dallas Pratt, MD. on 15 October
when accepting the 1981 Albert Schweitzer Medal from the hands of
Senator Mark Hatfield (R, OR), Chairman of the Senate Appropriations
Committee, whose distinguished career makes his deep concern about
animals and the way in which they are treated especially significant. The
medal is awarded annually by the AWI for an Outstanding Contribution

to Animal Welfare.

Autumn in the Hudson Highlands,
where I do my writing, is heralded by the
honking of geese ﬂying south. Just the
other day I saw several of their great “V’s”
floating overhead. The fall has also brought
the red leaves, the red hunters, and into
my house, in defiance of screens, a horde
of ravenous flies. I have to swat them. So
the hunters, whose activities I detest, are
hunting deer in the woods, but I am hunt-
ing ﬂies in the house.

Roger Ulrich is a research psychologist
who a few years ago repudiated and ex-
pressed regret for the painful experiments
on monkeys for which he was well—known.
When I wrote to him about it, he replied:
“Do you take or prescribe drugs? If you do,
be damn careful what you say about
anyone else harming animals because the
moment you engage in either of these two
behaviors you become part of the problem
of animal painful experimentation.” I have
to admit that at about the time Dr. Ulrich
was abandoning his painful experiments I
was undergoing surgery without question-
ing the possible use of animals in the testing
of drugs, surgical techniques and radiation
from which I benefited, and without which
I might not be here today receiving the
Schweitzer Award.

But ought I to be here, a beneficiary, in a
surgical crisis, of animal experimentation; a
confessed swatter of flies; a doctor who, in

 

“Do you take or prescribe
drugs? If you do, be damn care-
ful what you say about anyone
else harming animals because
the moment you engage in ei-
ther of these two behaviors you
become part of the problem.”

 

medical school, studied wound-healing in
dogs? How about “reverence for life,” or
the “ethical man” who, according to
Schweitzer, “shatters no ice crystal that
sparkles in the sun, tears no leaf from the
tree, breaks off no flower, and is careful not
to crush any insect as he walks”?1'

Well, I doubt if Schweitzer the
philosopher expected fallible humans to be
quite as perfect as this quotation suggests.
Reverence for life is set before us as an
ideal, but as a practical man and physician
the good Doctor used drugs which he must
have known had been produced at the ex-

6

pense of animals, and he didn’t scruple to
inject the victims of sleeping sickness with
chemicals which would kill the invading
trypanosomes. In a crisis situation, a choice
had to be made, and the “will-to-live” of
the parasites had to be sacrificed in favor of
the “will-to—live” of the patient. But a very
significant insight is expressed by
Schweitzer when he adds that it was not

 

“A thinking being feels a com-
pulsion to give to every will-to-
live the same reverence for life
that he gives to his own. He ex-
periences that other life as his
own.”

 

without concern that he looked at the
trypanosomes through the microscope and
thought about his decision to end their
striving for existence.

Note this emphasis on thinking about
what you are doing, especially when a will—
to-live, even an apparently insignificant
one, is at stake. “Thinking” is a theme
which Schweitzer emphasizes (and perhaps
the word “imagination” is closer to his real
meaning) as much as he does the better
known precept of “reverence for life.” He
deplores a tendency in his contemporaries
to give up thinking for themselves and in-
stead to rely on truths spoon-fed by
authority and propaganda. He calls it “a
declaration of spiritual bankruptcy.” But
the man who has truly “become a thinking
being feels a compulsion to give to every
will-to-live the same reverence for life that
he gives to his own. He experiences that
other life as his own.”

The experience of identifying with the
will—to-live of an other, and that other an
animal, was expressed with great imagina-
tion and charm, four centuries ago, by the
French essayist Montaigne. “When I play
with my cat,” he wrote, “who knows
whether I do not make her more sport than
she makes me? We mutually divert one
another with our monkey tricks: if I have
my hour to begin or to refuse, she also has
hers.”3' This wisest Frenchman of the
Renaissance becomes so vehement about
the moral superiority of many animals over
humans thateven in our time of animal
rights and liberation he would rank as a
radical.

At this stage in my life I don’t know how

imaginative I can pretend to be. With hind-
sight, and knowledge of the cruel confine-
ment suffered by so many dogs in medical
or veterinary schools, I certainly give much
more thought than I did as a brainwashed
medical student to the distress of dogs sub-
ject to repeated experimental or “practice”
surgery. I have a desire to make others
think about it too, and that’s why in my first
book I noted that my alma mater, Colum-
bia, reported the use in one year (1973) of
no less than 1660 dogs in the William
Black Research Laboratory.

My accepting drugs in a surgical crisis
without scrupling to think at the time of the
probable cost to experimental animals has
indeed, following Dr. Ulrich’s blunt warn-
ing, made me humble, in fact “damn
careful”, in preaching animal rights,
especially to others who many have expe-
rienced similar life-threatening situations.
But reflection has helped me to see that
successfully weathering such a crisis may
tempt one, as Andrew Linzey wrote, to
imagine a “continuous crisis situation in
which we have constantly to choose in
favor of our own species.” Reinforced by
propaganda from the research establish-
ment, the continuous crisis theory has
spawned much old-fashioned animal ex-
perimentation and retarded the develop-
ment and substitution of non-sentient
technology.

Let’s leave that for the moment and go
back to the flies—which are still buzzing in-

 

We still have 60 to 100 million
animals under experiment in
the United States. I think of
those 60 million animals. A
sad, almost hopeless feeling
comes over me. Then I think of
80 million. I feel just the same.
100 million. The same. Try it,
and you will see that when
enormous numbers are in-
volved, 20 million animals,
more or less, become meaning-
less. But it’s different when the
imagination focuses on that
one individual animal alone
with its pain in the laboratory;

 

side my head. I cannot exactly reverence
them, but I stand in awe of their will-to-live,
much as Robert Frost did in a confrontation
with an almost microscopic insect, a mite
which crawled so purposefully to and fro
on his manuscript that he was moved to
address it in verse:
“. . .With inclination it could call its own
It paused as with suspicion of my pen,
And then came racing wildly on again. . -
Plainly with an intelligence I dealt. . .”
This is just an excerpt, but in his octogenar—
ian years I heard the poet read the whole
poem, titled “A Considerable Speck”,5‘




 

  

Senator Hatfield presentslthe Schweitzer Medal

to Dr. Dallas Pratt.

with great sensitivity and humor.

In spite of the ability of philosophers and
poets to imagine the feelings of insects, it
might be better to concentrate on animals
with whom we can identify more easily. I
freely admit that one of the take-off places
in my own developing concern for animals
was when the cirCumstances of my life first
made it possible for me to acquire a dog, a
Scotty named Maud who was born in my
house in 1966 and still lives there today,
teaching me now about old age as she did
about infancy, adolescence, maternity and
much else (including driving a car
smoothly, without abrupt stops which can
tumble a dozing Scotty onto the floor!).
And if, like Montaigne and his cat, I could
glimpse the world through her innocent
eyes, I imagine it would seem a lovely
place filled with very kind people.

Another milestone in my progress
through a “humane education” was in
1973 when a colleague and I found an
untended, dying little brown dog—a
female—with a gaping undressed throat
wound in a laboratory at New York Univer-
sity Medical Center. I have described in my
book how we telephoned the surgeon who
had operated on the dog. He said that his
experiment on the heart vessels had not
been successful, and the dog should just be
“allowed to die.” When nobody would
help us at the hospital—it was Friday night,
the beginning of the weekend, and the at-
tendants had vanished—we smuggled the
dog out of the building and took her to the
Animal Medical Center. There she was
gently eased out of a world which, in con-
trast to Maud’s, must have seemed both
Ugly and unkind. We had stolen hospital
“property” and disrupted a scientific ex-
periment; nevertheless I learned a lot that
night about callous institutional attitudes
and something about myself. I think what
we did was wrong in principle, but right for
that dog, at that time, in that place.

The telling of this pathetic tale is not typi—
cal of the way experiments are described in
my books. Most of them are told matter—of-
factly in the investigators’ own words; the
reader’s imagination must supply the rest.
In Alternatives to Pain in Experiments on
Animals,6‘ I have tried to match each of the

experiments with one or more
alternative methods which spare
the animals by substituting
sophisticated technology, cell or
organ culture, human material
(as from operating room or
autopsy), epidemiological
analysis and the like.

An important parenthesis
here, however, is that there
should be more standardization
of these in vitro tests, the
development of which has been
very haphazard. The effect of
known cancer—causing substan-
dardized against “reference”
cell cultures, so that these and similar tests
would be reproducible anywhere. In Brit-
ain, the organization FRAME has a com-
mittee of leading toxicologists which hopes
to start a research program of this kind, us-
ing five coordinated laboratories. Several
years ago Professor Nardone at Catholic

Photo: Ann Cottrell Free

 

If some experiments cannot be
performed at all without unre-
lieved pain and distress, then
the humanitarian position is
that they should be abandoned.
This would eliminate a lot of sci-
entific trash-like “learned
helplessness” and “pits of
despair” experiments-and be a
challenge to human ingenuity to
find the necessary alternatives.

 

University in Washington suggested a pro
gram for the United States; I hope it is
being or will be implemented.

Unfortunately, the replacement of
animals in experimental work, including
the development and testing of chemical
substances, is likely to be a slow process, in
spite of the concern of poets, philosophers,
lawyers and humanitarians, the declara-
tions of animal rights, the legislative efforts
here and abroad, and the funds contrib—
uted for the development of alternatives.
We still have between 60 and 100 million
animals under experiment in the United
States.

I think of those 60 million animals. A
sad, almost hopeless feeling comes over
me. Then I think of 80 million. I feel just
the same. 100 million. The same. Try it,
and you will see that when enormous
numbers are involved, 20 million animals
more or less become meaningless—just
cold statistics. But it’s different when the
imagination focuses on that one individual
animal alone with its pain in the laboratory.
I am still haunted by the image of that badly
wounded little brown dog which we found
on a Friday evening at NYU Medical
Center, and which was to be “allowed to
die” at some unspecified and unattended
moment during the long weekend. Can

one imagine anything lonelier than an
animal abandoned in such pain? And yet,
although pain is an exclusively individual
and virtually incommunicable experience,
paradoxically it is the one thing which all
sentient animals, including the human
animal, have in common. So the famous
question which Jeremy Bentham asked
about animals, which was not, Can they
reason? nor Can they talk? but Can they
suffer? must be answered “Yes— just as we
do.”

Which leads to the second question:
how much should they be asked to suffer?
This might be answered, as it was many
years ago by CW. Hume, in this way: If
animals are to be experimented on by man,
then they should not be forced to accept
suffering greater than man himself would
accept.

A corollary follows: If some experiments
cannot be performed at all without
unrelieved pain and distress, then the
humanitarian position is that these should
be abandoned. If this last suggestion were
acted on, it would eliminate a lot of scien-
tific trash—like “learned helplessness” and
“pits of despair” experiments—and be a
challenge to human ingenuity to find the
necessary alternatives.

A final question. Can we ever extricate
ourselves from the moral dilemma of not
wanting to cause distress to animals, and
yet often being forced by the necessities of
our lives into benefiting from their sacrifice?
I think we are powerless to reject the
knowledge which the past relentlessly
thrusts upon us, including those
discoveries which have come by a long,
dark and ghastly route. But perhaps it is
possible to atone, at least in part, for that
murky past, if with will and imagination we
mould the future, and put to work the
technology which can replace the myriad
of suffering rats, mice, guinea pigs,
monkeys, cats—and little brown dogs.

Just imagine. . .

References

1. Joy, Charles (ed.) Albert Schweitzer—
an Anthology, Black, London, 1952.
page 265.

2. Schweitzer, Albert. Out of My Life
and Thought. Holt, New York, 1949.
page 158.

3. Hazlitt, W. Carew (Ed.) The Essays of
Michel de Montaigne. George Bell,
London, 1893. Vol. 2, page 134.

4. Linzey, Andrew. Animal Rights. SCM
Press, London, 1976. page 54.

5. Lathem, ED. (Ed) The Poetry of
Robert Frost. Holt, New York, 1969.

6. Pratt, Dallas. Alternatives to Pain in
Experiments on Animals. Argus
Archives, New York, 1980.

 




 

 

 

 

Monkey Trial— continued

of the monkeys at IBR inadequate and
“grossly unsanitary” was not included as
evidence in the trial because it was written
subsequent to the seizure of the monkeys
by Montgomery Police September 11th.

In a two-page article by Constance
Holden, Science magazine pointed to key
issues:

“The monkey trial has already earned a
prominent place in the history of the
animal welfare movement and drawn sup-
port from animal lovers across the country.
The affair has set at least two precedents: it
is believed to be the first time that local law
enforcement officials have seized animals
from a research laboratory, and it is the first
time the National Institutes of Health (NIH)
has suspended a grant because of ques-
tions relating to the treatment of ex-
perimental animals...

“Central to the defense’s case was the
argument that people who have not work-
ed with deafferented monkeys—including
the veterinarians who testified for the pros-
ecution—are not qualified to assess their
problems. Monkeys are messy creatures,
the defense added, and can mess up their
quarters and dirty their bandages within
moments after they have been cleaned.
Shown photographs of the lesions on the
monkeys’ arms, the defense expressed the
belief that IBR operated within respectable
limits. Two experts from the University of
Pennsylvania found it difficult to defend the
dirty cages and piles of feces shown in the
photographs.

“But another Pennsylvania expert, neu-
roscientist Michael Goldberger, who work-
ed with Taub on his last grant application,
was unperturbed by conditions in the
laboratory, which he said should be judged
by whether the animals are healthy. ‘I saw
nothing I wouldn’t expect to see if I went
around the country looking at primate col-
onies,’ he said. Psychologist Solomon
Steiner from the City University of New
York, who is on the board of directors of
IBR, was also satisfied. He last visited the
laboratory on 5 June and said he saw only
‘very good specimens of deafferented
monkeys.”’

Taub, too, takes the position that his
animals received as good care as those in
other laboratories. He told Science, “I
suspect that there is almost no primate or
animal facility in this country that you could
not go through and find five violations.” At
the trial, he singled out Walter Reed Army
Medical Center for keeping monkeys in
monkey chairs for long periods, a practice
he said he has never used because of its
cruelty. Regulations under the Animal
Welfare Act prohibit use of monkey chairs as
permanent housing; however, any scientist
can keep a monkey in a chair for its entire
lifetime if he designates this as part of the ex-
perimental protocol because the Act as now

8

 

 

Editorial from New Scientist, Vol. 93, No. 1282, 3 December 1981

The unacceptable side of animal research

Edward Taub, a behavioural psychologist, has been found guilty of providing
inadequate veterinary care for his research subjects, monkeys of various species
(see page 672). Taub raised the spectre of academic freedom in his defence, saying
that “what is on trial is the future of research in America”. This simply will not do.
Academic freedom does not encompass the freedom to neglect animals.
Researchers like Taub may have reasons for doing what they do to animals. Some
of those reasons may even be justified. But there can be no justification for the ill
treatment and neglect suffered by Taub’s monkeys.

The growing public awareness of, and interest in, the use of animals in
laboratories raises many thorny issues. One is the question of scientific expertise
and judgement. Taub, who, like his assistant, enjoys no formal training in
veterinary science as such, denigrated his accusers as unable to understand the true
state of his monkeys. The same can be said of many who support the anti-
vivisectionists, but it doesn’t take a degree in veterinary medicine to recognise truly
awful conditions—a point made at Taub’s trial. There can surely be no positive
reason to keep monkeys, or any other animal, in conditions like those Taub im-
posed; and those who use animals have a duty to ensure that their subjects enjoy
the best possible conditions. Only when that is so will scientists be able to debate the
necessity of animal research with an honest heart.

 

 

written totally exempts the design of ex-
periments from its minimum standards.

No action on the IBR case has been taken
by the US Department of Agriculture which
administers the Animal Welfare Act. When
defense attorney Edward Brenner sought to
exonerate his client on the theory that he
had corrected all the deficiencies noted by
USDA inspector Dr Arthur Perry, Judge
Klavan dismissed this move with little ado,
remarking, “I was not impressed with Dr
Perry. . .I thought he was even embar-
rassed.”

As we go to press, the fate of the
monkeys has not yet been decided. After
their seizure by Montgomery County Police,
under the direction of Sergeant Richard
Swain, they were housed in the half-
basement of a private home which had been
prepared for proper primate housing under
the direction of primatologist Dr Geza
Teleki. Dr Taub went to court seeking the
return of the monkeys and when it ap—
peared they would go back to IBR, uniden-
tified animal activists carried them off.
Sergeant Swain succeeded in obtaining their
return five days later, and Judge David L.
Cahoon ruled that they must go back to
IBR.

Prudence might have dictated that during
the monkeys’ absence, their cages be given
the thorough cleaning that their condition
cried out for. But other matters apparently
occupied the minds of IBR officials, so it was
not till after the monkeys’ return that IBR
decided to steam clean the cages. There is
no drain in the animal room floor. The
cages were bound together by the system
used for delivering water to them. Cleaning
was thus no easy matter and steam cleaning
doubly difficult. However, it was undertaken

one night and the monkeys shufﬂed around
to allow live steam to be sprayed upon the
wire cage ﬂoors. The result of this poorly
planned maneuver was a fight between two
monkeys which left the defeated Charlie
with wounds that required stitching. The
surgery had not been used for two years and
no veterinarian was available. It is reported,
however, that Charlie was sedated and
sewn up by John Kunz, Dr Taub’s assistant
and co—defendant. The following morning
Dr James Stunkard, a veterinarian formerly
employed by IBR and authorized by Judge
Cahoon in the custody trial to treat the
monkeys, decided to sedate Charlie again in
order to improve on Mr Kunz’s repair of the
wounds. Shortly after he had recovered
from the second intervention, Charlie
reportedly collapsed and then died.

Following this debacle, Judge Cahoon
directed the National Institutes of Health to
house and care for the monkeys pending
the outcome of the criminal trial. Animal
welfare groups have joined together to offer
life—time maintenance of the remaining 16
monkeys at a haven for primates in south
Texas should Judge Klavan decide to rule
against their return to Dr Taub.

 

A decisive No
The October 1981 issue of

Glamour magazine put the following
question to its readers: Should we
continue to conduct tests on animals
to aid in the development of safe
cosmetics? 84% said No.

 

 

 




 

“Ritual mass execution
of animals”

In the splendid Swedish city of Uppsala eminent specialists,
summoned from near and far, assembled for two days in Sep-
tember to give that notorious body of toxicity tests, known as the
LB“, a thorough going over. They pronounced it bloated and
prescribed surgery to cut it down to size.

The test “uses” millions of animals a year world-wide. Regu-
latory agencies demand it and companies uncomplainingly com-
ply. Yet the strange thing is that today LD50 stands condemned
by scientists and animal campaigners alike for bringing scant
protection to man at a huge cost in death and suffering to other
creatures.

Why then does it linger on? Not because of active defenders (it
has many enemies and all its friends dislike it) but because it is
hedged around by a thick wall of resistance to change. Question:
What quantity of a new chemical added to drug, food, cosmetic,
pollutant or pesticide can we swallow, inhale or otherwise take
aboard without keeling over? Answer: Do an LDSO on rats or mice
or rabbits or dogs or even monkeys because the resulting nice
round figure will make for the happiness of tidy-minded bureau-
crats and lawyers.

But the toxicologists say (and they should know) that the
question is often the wrong question and the answers are often
wrong too, and that, all in all, the nice round figures are usually
quite meaningless. In Uppsala they paraded their evidence. The
occasion was billed as a seminar but was more of aforthright
attack.

The attack was on a broad front.
Some concentrated their fire on the

identical. But far from it! Differences
ranged from 150% to over 700%.

near uselessness of LD50 findings as
predictors of toxicity in man. A lethal
dose for a rat may (after due allow—
ance for differences in body weight)
have no effect on people. Conversely,
and rather more worryingly, a harm—
less dose for a rat may be lethal for us.
A rat is not a person.

Indeed a rat is not even another rat.
Differences in age, sex, strain and
other variables make for surprisingly
large LD50 variations. (In a sense, then,
rats, though not people, are like peo—
Ple. For they too are individually
different.)

To make confusion worse it seems
that even where all known variables
are eliminated (including easily
overlooked ones like room tempera-
ture and whether the animals are
housed singly or in groups), different
labs will produce wildly different
figures. In a tightly controlled experi-
ment 100 labs in 13 countries con-
ducted identical LD5O tests on five chem—
icals. In theory, results should have been

Perhaps differences between labs
are the consequence of human error
and are therefore curable. Perhaps dif-
ferences within species are experi-
mentally controllable. Perhaps. But
nothing can be done to erase dif-
ferences between species. Which
means that nothing can be done to
make the standard LDso test of real
value to human beings. Unless, of
course, they themselves are the
testees. (This is not a course of action
which normally commends itself to
prudent researchers, however dedi-
cated. But there are exceptions—see
box!)

Obscene wastage

A second main line of attack was on
the obscene wastage of animals re-
quired by LD50 protocols. The justifica-
tion is that more animals means
greater precision. But the precision is
likely to be spurious (for reasons al-

ready given) and in any case is usually

unwanted. Anthony Dayan of the
Wellcome Research Laboratory in
England neatly summed up the matter:
“The precision aimed at should be
related to real needs. Large numbers
of animals are generally not called
for—it simply gives needless super-
verification to three or four decimal
points.”

For most new chemicals all that is
required is the degree of toxicity— very
toxic, fairly toxic, mildly toxic—and this
can be found using far fewer animals
than at present. Andrew Rowan of the
Institute for the Study of Animal Prob-
lems, Washington DC, said that LDsos
on only 6- 10 animals give results with-
in 25% of those obtained by the
standard test which uses 60 animals or
more. Here is a huge potential saving!

A third line of attack was on the idea
that the only thing that needs to be
known about a new compound is the
lethal dosage. It is not the only thing
and very often it is not even the most
important thing.

Possible alternatives?

One way and another the experts
gave the LD50 test a rare hammering.
But what to put in its place? Could
computer modelling and tissue cul-
ture—the non-animal alternatives on
which so many hopes are pinned—
now take over?

Computer modelling has the tre-
mendous advantage of being cheap
once developed, yet it is greatly under-
used. Svante Wold of Umea University,
Sweden, said that while making a com—
pound costs $2000, computing its effect
costs just $50. Based on the principle
that like substances react similarly and
that similar changes in structure produce
similar changes in reactivity, computer
modelling can be applied in a limited
way to biological activities. But there are
many mathematical hazards.

Tissue culture (a term which in-
cludes cell culture and organ culture)
would seem to be more promising. It is
regarded as having an “exciting
future”—given the funding (for a start,
why not a slice of the tens of millions a
year which the US spends on primate
research, suggested Andrew Rowan).
But here too there are snags.

Present understanding of the laws of
biochemistry do not permit the major
organs of higher animals to be examined
in vitro. In other words, organic reac-

9

 




 

tions can only be fully tested on living
bodies.

For the time being, then, most “alter-
natives” will still be using animals.
There is no scientific reason, though,
for what Swiss toxicologist, G. Zbin-
den, has called “the ritual mass execu-
tion of animals.” But this appalling
slaughter will continue until govern-
ments can be persuaded to change
their laws. If countries were to alter
their regulations from a bald demand
(often without further embellishment)
for standard LD50 tests to the more
flexible requirement that “acute toxici-
ty tests” be performed, then responsi-
ble scientists would be able to save
animals whilst being encouraged to
extract from their tests more than just
the lethal dosage.

What are the prospects? Robert
Osterberg of the US Food and Drug
Administration foresaw a rocky road
ahead. “Bureaucrats,” he said, “need
an atom bomb to move them. They
are large turtles in a very large shell.
However——one mustard seed can
move mountains.”

 

Man takes LD50
test

When testing Chlorfenvinphos (a new
compound for killing ectoparasites on
dogs), Vernon Brown of the Shell Toxi-
cology Lab in England found the LD50
differences between species to be enor-
mous. For rats the LDso value was 12
mg (per kg of ordinary food), for mice
100-200 mg, while dogs proved inde-
structible at 12,000 mg.

Since vets would be handling the
substance it was necessary to know
whether man was a rat, a mouse, a dog
or none of these. Believing he was
probably more dog than rat, our intre-
pid researcher swallowed some of the
dread compound. Unpleasant reactions
persuaded him that he had been
wrong. Man, or at any rate one man,
was in this instance more rat than dog!

It could be said, though, that millions
of people unwittingly act like Vernon
Brown every day. Birgitta Werner of
the Poison Information Center in
Stockholm produced LD50 figures on
nicotine. For dogs the value is 9-2
mg/ kg, for rats 53 mg/ kg, for pigeons
75 mg/ kg. But for man a lethal dose of
nicotine can apparently be as low as
0-9 mg/kg. This huge difference be-
tween species is not one that favors the
cigarette smoker!

 

 

 

10

Biographical note

LDso = Lethal Dose 50% i the amount
of a toxic substance which will, in a single
dose, kill half the animals receiving it.

LDso was born in 1927 for the testing of
potentially dangerous drugs. For this
limited purpose precision is essential— and
may require the sacrifice of large numbers
of animals. Now in middle age LDso has
spread into areas wholly outside its co mpe-
tence, killing and maiming on a horren-
dous scale to no defensible purpose.

The test is now frequently performed
with the kind of compounds (pharmacol-
ogically inert food additives, for example)
for which it was not designed and about
which it can tell us nothing useful. For
instance, what is the cumulative effect on
the human body of a daily bombardment
by more and more chemicals? Nobody
knows. But whatever the answer, it is
unlikely to be bad news for morticians.

Proposed
rule
changes

In all guidelines and regulations for
toxicological studies it must be
stated specifically that the concept
of acute toxicity testing (harmful
effects of single doses) is not identi-
cal with the performance of a classi—
cal LDSO test.

In all guidelines and requlations
for toxicological studies the classical
LDSO test carried out with large
animals, such as dogs, monkeys,
pigs, etc., must be prohibited.

In all guidelines and regulations for
toxicological studies it must be
pointed out that the classical LD50
test with small rodents using large
numbers of animals is only permissi-
ble if the reason for the desired high
precision is clearly stated and scien-
tifically justified.

In all guidelines and regulations for
toxicological studies it must be
stated that no LDso test should be
done with pharmacologically inert
substances.

The requirement to conduct an
LDso test in newborn animals must be
eliminated from all guidelines and
regulations.

Proposals for changes of regulatory
requirements pertaining to the LDso test.
6. Zbinden and M. Flury-Roversi, Arch
Toxicol (1981) 47:77-99.

 

 

Dr. Thelestam
sums up

Monica Thelestam, of the Karolinska Insti-
tute in Stockholm and one of the main
organizers of the Uppsala symposium, puts
a post-symposium viewpoint.

In Sweden animal experiments first came
under sustained attack during the 19705
with the growth of the animal welfare
movement. The scientists, compelled at
last to stand back and really look at what
they were doing, conceded the main thrust
of the animal campaigners’ case: excessive
numbers of animals were being made to
suffer—and suffer excessively— often for
no good reason at all.

This new thinking led to new laws
enshrining “the rights of laboratory
animals.” At the same time the whole issue
of animal testing came under scrutiny. In
1979 the National Board for Laboratory
Animals was created with a budget of one
million kronor (around $200,000) to stim-
ulate the development of alternative
methods and to question the rationale for
traditional animal tests.

The most questionable of these tests is
surely the LDSO. It uses huge numbers of
animals and a great many scientists con-
sider it valueless. We therefore decided to
make the LD50 our first target. Hence the
symposium.

Was it useful? I think so. While it would
have been nice to have come up with concrete
recommendations, these were implicit.
Remember we were all, including the many
toxicologists from leading pharmaceutical ﬁrms
who attended, in complete agreement that the
test is a bad one and should be replaced.

The main obstacle, I believe, is the
regulatory agencies. We must now press them
hard to change their rules so that fewer animals
are used. We have not yet reached the stage
where we can cease using animals entirely.
Tissue culture can help towards this goal—and
research efforts should be stepped up—but it
does not allow for full-bodied organic effects to
be studied.

Of course one simple way of greatly
reducing the number of animals we use is
to stop the endless testing and marketing
of new but trivial products. Cosmetics, for
instance. We surely now have enough for
our needs. And I speak as a woman!

We hope to publish the proceedings of
the symposium within the next six months.
A more long-term aim is a book on various
aspects of animal experiments and alterna-
tives. In the meantime let us keep up the
pressure on all fronts.

 

 




Charles
Hume

Charles Hume,
OBE, MC, BSc,
MIBiol, a giant among
leaders of animal pro-
tection who pioneered '
the extension into academia of the animal
welfare movement in England, has died at
the age of 95. In 1939 he founded the
Universities Federation for Animal Welfare
(UFAW). This meant that every English
university now had its group of academics
and scientists with a shared concern for the
wellbeing of animals. For a great many years
he also served on the International Commit-
tee of AWI.

Author of “Man and Beast” and “The

 

Courtesy Universities Federation for

Animal Welfare

Status of Animals in the Christian
Religion,” he sought always to combine
ethics and science in his life-long battle for
animal welfare. Indeed his ideas and
carefully reasoned standpoint became the
rock upon which later writers and activists
have built. The greatest single blessing he
bestowed on animals came from his suc-
cessful fight to outlaw the steel jaw leghold
trap in Britain (1956).

A Charles Hume Memorial Fund has
been established in order to sponsor an an-
nual lecture furthering the aims of UFAW
and its founder. The lectures will deal with
man’s use and abuse of animals in specific
fields. They will be given by distinguished
speakers, will be open to the public and will
be published.

The series will begin in 1982. Donations
are requested and should be sent to:
UFAW, 8 Hamilton Close, South Mimms,
Potters Bar, Herts, England.

 

Monitor awards — continued

cockatoos (now in Jacksonville Zoo) and in
1981 to the conviction of a major Miami
wildlife dealer. He was also commended
for his undercover work in Chicago that led
to the seizure of 782 items of whales’ teeth,
walrus ivory and tiger claws.

Carl Sundstrom, Special Agent, US.
Customs Service. Stationed in San Diego,
he has in recent years devoted nearly all his
time to tracking down smugglers of wildlife
(particularly parrots, 80% of which die on
the journey) entering from Mexico. His
efforts have brought many arrests and
convictions.

William Grimes, Supervisory Customs
Inspector, Jay Erdman, Customs Inspec-
tor, John Morley, Customs Inspector—
and others. Prompt action by customs of-
ficers at the San Ysidro border station,
California, on 30 November 1980 resulted
in the arrest and conviction of seven US.
citizens in possession of dogs with appalling
injuries sustained at an organized dog fight
in Mexico. Fines ranged from $1000 to
$3000 and jail sentences from 10 to 30
days.

Barry Groveman, Los Angeles City At-
torney. He led the undercover investiga—
tions which resulted in the seizure of 300
ivory carvings, valued at $1 million, at the
Stanley Masry Gallery in Los Angeles.

From the dry summary of achievements
listed above, it might appear that the job of
the wildlife law enforcer, while clearly
essential to the success of any conservation
or animal welfare measure, is nothing very
exceptional. If so, appearances deceive.
Increasingly, enforcement relies on the
undercover agent. And a federal under—
cover agent plays a lone and perilous
hand. For if his (or her) cover is blown, or
even if suspicions are aroused, there are
those in the wildlife underworld who would
not scruple to see that the agent is rendered
permanently incapable of parting them
from their plunder—in short, is murdered.
Today’s traffickers in wildlife are not in it
to make a bit on the side. Their cruel and
disgusting trade is immensely lucrative.
The battle to deny them this stolen wealth
is no fringe affair. It is the battle to
safeguard the Earth’s living riches—for all
people for all time. The Monitor awards
honored some of the front-line troops.

Dorothy Dyce Walenczak
Dorothy Dyce Walenczak, formerly
Laboratory Animal Consultant of the

Animal Welfare Institute, recently died at
her home in Lexington, Michigan.

Her intrepid pursuit of justice for animals
sometimes led her into difficult and
dangerous situations. Once in the Ten-
nessee backwoods she went to inspect a

   

Photo: Stan Wayman

Dorothy Dyce Walenczak bought this
starving dog from a laboratory dog dealer
and placed him in a good home

major laboratory dog dealer’s operation but
found no one on the ramshackle premises,
only dozens of starving dogs so thirsty they
fought one another to get to the hose she
turned on for them. Mrs. Walenczak went
back to town and bought big sacks of dog
food which she was feeding them when the
two dog dealers returned with another
truckload of dogs. They forced her to beat
a temporary retreat, but their cruelty did
not go unpunished. Mrs. Walenczak
presented a well-documented case to the
prosecutor; the jury found the dealers guil-
ty and the judge fined them and sentenced
them to spend a month in jail.

continued on page 12

 

Animal Welfare Institute

Scientific Committee

Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D.
Bennett Derby, M.D.

F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D.
Roger Payne, Ph.D.
Samuel Peacock, MD.
John Walsh, M.D.

International Committee

T. G. Antikatzides, D.V.M.—-Greece
Angela King—United Kingdom
David Ricardo— Canada

N. E. Wernberg— Denmark
Godofredo Stutzin— Chile

Christabel Gough

Officers and Directors

Christine Stevens, President
Cynthia Wilson, Vice President
John Beary, M. D., Vice President
Marjorie Cooke, Secretary

Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer

Aileen Train

David 0. Hill
Madeleine Bemelmans
Gerard Bertrand
Freeborn G. J ewett, Jr.
Sue Hunt

 

Staff

Patrick Allen, Editorial Consultant
Leon Bernstein, Ph.D., M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P.,
Consultant in Physiology

 

g

Maria Gulino, Administrative Assistant

Diane Halverson, Research Associate

Lynne Hutchison, Whale Campaign Secretary
Fran Lipscomb, Executive Assistant

Felicity Luebke, Administrative Assistant

Nell Naughton, Mail Order Secretary

Adele Schoepperle, Assistant Treasurer
Cynthia Lee Stokes, Publications Secretary

 

 




Watch “Skeezer” on NBC

(1 Rmmzbe

On two consecutive Sundays, March
14 and 21, 1982, “Skeezer, a Dog with a
Mission” will air at 7:00 PM. The two-
hour long show is based on the moving
book by Elizabeth Yates McGreal about a

 

Dorothy Walenczak — continued

Dorothy Dyce Walenczak’s remarkable
powers of observation bordered on a sixth
sense as in the case of a post—operative dog
whose license tag caught her eye during a
laboratory inspection. She took the
number, checked it out and found the
family who had been hunting for their pet
for weeks. The Veterans Administration
hospital returned the dog to the tearful
mother and children.

During the course of her career Mrs.
Walenczak visited hundreds of laboratory
animal rooms and suppliers’ premises. The
photographs she obtained led Henry Luce
to produce “Concentration Camps for
Dogs,” an 8—page picture story in the
February 4, 1966 issue of Life magazine.
The following year Congress enacted the
Federal Laboratory Animal Welfare Act,
the first time the nation’s lawmakers had
acted on this subject.

Animal Welfare Institute
PO. Box 3650
Washington, DC. 20007

mongrel dog bought from a dog pound
for medical research but turned over to
the Children’s Psychiatric Hospital at the
University of Michigan to see if she could
help the disturbed youngsters. She
proved to be a magnificent friend and
helper, visiting the most critical cases to
comfort and calm them. She rode the
elevator to the floor she wanted, simply
waiting for someone to press the right
button. She would then head for the child
she knew needed her benign presence.

The book on which the television
drama is based was written after the
author read an article in the AWI Infor-
mation Report about Skeezer.

Now NBC is considering a whole
series! “Skeezer” is the pilot and if NBC

decides it can sustain audience interest

the series may replace Disney, which
played for over 20 years on NBC on Sun-
days at 7:00 PM.

All friends of animals should make a
point to watch and to write to:

Mr. Brandon Tartikoff, President
NBC Entertainment

3000 W. Alameda Ave.
Burbank, CA 91505

Periodical Pleasures

I am aware of no daily newspaper (and
certainly no international one) which
presents as much information on animals
as does The Christian Science Monitor.
Day in, day out, week in, week out, one
can find articles on animal protection,
animal care, animal personality and animal
exploitation. Occasionally, there are
features covering such pressing issues as
use of animals in laboratory research. They
are always typical Monitor articles written
with balance and objectivity and rigidly rule
out sensationalism and sentimentality.
Blessedly, they are concise with a great
deal of information packed into short, well-

Life on Earth

David Attenborough’s Life on Earth is
now being shown on US. television. Even
if you have missed out on the early films
(they are showing weekly on PBS, begin-
ning 12 January) in the series, you can still
take in most of the 13 hour—long spectacu-
lars—a captivating journey through time
and the development of Earth’s myriad life
forms.

Attenborough is that rare being, a truly
knowledgeable enthusiast who can com-
municate. And the story he has to tell is
nothing less than the most exciting story in
the world, the story of how we all, animals
and plants of every kind, have got where
we are.

Life on Earth is not intended as a conser-
vationist tract. But the theme is one which
cannot help highlighting the crucial ques—
tion of our era: Where do we go from
here? Is the life-enhancing process, a pro-
cess of ever-increasing diversity and
richness, to continue? Or is it to be put into
sharp and tragic reverse? For the first time
in the Earth’s history, one species, our
own, has the power to decide.

by John Gleiber

written articles. FOr anyone who wants a
broad overview of just what is happening to
wild and domestic animals all over the
world, the Monitor is invaluable.

A charming note is the frequent use of a
photograph, tucked somewhere on the
front page. They are seldom connected
with a news story, but are only a light
touch, a pleasant break amid the heaviness
of what constitutes front page news today,
even in The Christian Science Monitor.

Three-month or yearly subscriptions can be
ordered by writing to 125 Astor Station,
Boston, MA 02123.

Non-Profit
Organization
US. Postage
PAID

New York, NY.
Permit No. 8898

 




  

 

THE

 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

QUARTERLY

 

P.O. Box 3650 Washington, D.C. 20007

Summer 1983

Vol. 32 No. 2

 

Kill kangaroo imports, not kangaroos

Australia ’s annual slaughter of
some six million kangaroos has
been dubbed “one of the cruelest
massacres in the world. ” Regular
readers of the Quarterly (see, in
particular, summer 1981 issue)
will surely not disagree.

US action can and does greatly
affect the situation — for better or
for worse. At present it is for the
worse.

When the Endangered Species
Act was passed in 1973 the
kangaroo was one of the very first
species to be given protection.
Under the Act a ban was imposed
on all imports of kangaroo prod-
ucts. But in 1981 the ban was lift-
ed. As a result, the US is again
importing kangaroo hides. They

Whales, Bobcats

Conservationists successfully battled to
give added protection to six species of
whales and maintained strict controls on
the trade in bobcat pelts and green sea tur-
tle products at the biennial meeting of the
Convention on International Trade in En-
dangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora
(CITES) in April. A proposal to monitor all
trade ‘in seal products was blocked by
Canada and several African nations
pressured CITES to allow a limited export
of leopard skins.

The tenth anniversary of the treaty
organization was marked by the 12-day
meeting in Botswana, a vast, bush—covered
country in southern Africa dominated by
the Kalahari Desert and populated by the
finest wildlife in Africa. Delegations from
more than 60 nations and dozens of non-
governmental organizations gathered
under a transplanted circus tent at the Holi-
day Inn in Gabarone, the dusty capital of
Botswana.

    

are made into boots, coats, rugs,
golf bags and even roo-paw can
openers.

Conservationists and welfare
groups have been protesting long
and loud about this disgraceful
traffic. Congressman Robert
Mrazek (D. New York) has intro-
duced a bill which would impose
the 1973 ban. In his speech to the
House of Representatives Mr.
Mrazek quoted a former Minister
for Trade and Environment in
Australia, James Cairns, as say-
ing, “The truth is that we probably
won’t do anything to save the
kangaroo until America does.”
See Dr. Rawlinson’s article on
page 2.

 

A joey reconnoiters the landscape from his
mother’s pouch.

and Turtles Win at CITES; Seals
and Leopards Lose

The major business was debating and
voting on proposals to add species to the
controlled-trade lists or to take them off the
lists. CITES has two categories of trade
controls:

Appendix I listing is a total ban on com-
mercial trading between nations. This
status is accorded to endangered Species
facing heavy trading pressures.

   
   

A baby ET? See page6

Appendix II applies to species whose
populations could be endangered by
uncontrolled trade. International trading of
these species is allowed only when it is cer-
tiﬁed by the exporting country that the

trade is not detrimental to the health of the
population. The exports of these species
must be closely monitored.

CITES gave support to the ban on all
commercial whaling voted by the Inter-
national Whaling Commission last year
(and set to begin at the end of 1985) by
placing the last two species of great whales
on Appendix I. Now all ten species are to
be banned in International trade. The
Bryde’s whale goes on the list immediately.
The Minke whale will be listed on 1
January 1986.

However, Japan, Norway and the
Soviet Union, the leading whaling nations,
voiced strong opposition to the listings and
indicated that they would ignore the trade
ban by ﬁling reservations, a loophole in
CITES which allows nations to escape the
regulations. Overwhelming majorities sup-
ported the listings: 34 to 4 on Bryde’s and
29 to 5 on Minke.

continued on page 1 2

 

 

 

 

 




 

Australia concedes ’roo slaughter not legally

controlled

Dr. Peter Rawlinson, Senior Lecturer in
Zoology at La Trobe University in Australia,
has prepared the following play-by-play ac-
count of the strange allegations made by
representatives of both U. S. and Australian
governments with regard to commercially
killed kangaroos. Their claims that 32 or
even 36 million kangaroos still live were
abruptly reduced to 19.2 million at U.S.
Department of Interior hearings June 6,
1983, when three Australians, Dr. Rawlin-
son, Marjorie Wilson, and Richard Jones,
gave extensive testimony. The new num-
ber, as acknowledged by the Australian
government, is based on 1980-82 gov-
ernment surveys which had been kept
secret as Australia sought to persuade the
United States to lift the ban on kangaroo
imports and remove the commercially
valuable species from the Threatened
Species list. Continued drought has re-
duced numbers as much as 70% in one
national park since 1982.

In the 19505 an extensive kangaroo in-
dustry developed, initially to provide cheap
meat for pet food, but later to provide fur-
skins and leather for the export trade. By
1970 over 1.5 million kangaroos were
being killed each year to supply the in-
dustry, and the United States had become
the major importer of kangaroo products.

On lst April, 1973, the newly
elected Australian Labor Government
banned the export of kangaroo products.
Following the Australian action, Marian
Newman and her associates lobbied the
U.S. Government on the kangaroo issue
and as a result on 30th December 1974 the
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service took action
to:

1) Ban the
products

2) Place the three major commer—
cial species (the Red, Eastern Grey
and Western Grey kangaroos) on the

U.S. Threatened Species List.

Since that time the Australian kangaroo
industry and U.S. skin and leather pro-
cessors have heavily lobbied the Australian
and U.S. Governments to have the respec-
tive export and import bans removed and
the three species removed from the U.S.
threatened species list.

The Australian Government started to
capitulate in 1975 and the export bans
were progressively removed. By 1980
the kangaroo industry had returned to its
1970 level of operation and 1.5 to 2
million kangaroos were being killed each
year.

Throughout the period 1976 to 1981 the
Australian Government and U.S. skin and

2

import of kangaroo

leather processors exerted extreme pres-
sures on the United States Government to
drop the import ban and delist the three
kangaroo species. These pressures were
resisted until 1981 when the U.S. Fish and
Wildlife Service announced a two—year
partial lifting of the import ban. Defenders
of Wildlife appealed this decision but lost
on two major grounds:

1) Dr. David Anderson of the

USFWS visited Australia in 1980 and es-
timated there were at least 32 million
kangaroos.

 

Kangaroo skeletons in a bone dry river bed
provide grim evidence of Australia’s terrible
drought.

2) Australia had implemented a Na-
tional Kangaroo Management Program

in 1980.

What was not revealed to the U.S. in 1981
was that the National Kangaroo Manage-
ment Program was only the report of an ad
hoc working group on kangaroo manage-
ment set up by the Australian Council of
Nature Conservation Ministers (CON—
COM) and it has no legal status.

On 10th November 1982 the Australian
Government formally petitioned the U.S.
Fish and Wildlife Service to:

1) Permanently lift the import ban on
kangaroo products.

2) Remove the Red, Eastern Grey
and Western Grey kangaroos from the

U.S. Threatened Species list.

The public comment period on the pro-
posal to permanently lift the import ban
(9th May 1983) expired before Australian
conservation and animal welfare groups
could make submissions. The U.S. Animal
Protection Institute formally requested
public hearings on the delisting proposals

which were scheduled for 6th June — one
day before the public comment period
elapsed. This time many written submis—
sions were received by the U.S. Fish and
Wildlife Service and in addition three
Australians (Marjorie Wilson, Richard
Jones and Dr. Peter Rawlinson) travelled
to Washington to testify at the public hear-
ings. In addition three U.S. conserva-
tionists Marian Newman, Tim Manolis and
Bruce Webb testified at the hearings.

The Australian Government sent two
spokesmen, Tim Richmond (Australian
National Parks and Wildlife Service and
Jack Giles (New South Wales Parks and
Wildlife Service). Only Giles testified, he
insisted on speaking last and then
presented a new Australian submission
with substantially amended information.
Thus 30 days after the elapse of the public
comment period on the import ban, and
only 24 hours before the elapse of the
public comment period on the delisting
proposal the Australian Government dis-
counted the information published in the
Federal Register.

Prior to Giles’ 11th hour testimony and
the Australian Government’s about-face,
Australian conservationists had already
pointed out in public hearing how the U.S.
Government had been misled.

The major points raised by the Australian
conservationists and conceded by the
Australian Government include the follow-
mg:

1) Australia has no legitimate legal
National Kangaroo Management Pro—
gram.

2) The so-called National Kangaroo
Management Program is actually only
the report of an ad hoc CONCOM work-
ing group, and it was drawn up in 1980
in response to the threat of legal actions
in the U.S. over the partial lifting of the
U.S. import ban in 1980.

3) No real effort is made to conform
to the so-called National Kangaroo
Management Program, e.g. there is an
extreme male bias (80%) and age class
bias in commercial kangaroo shooting.

4) The Wildlife Protection (Regula-
tion of Exports and Imports) Act 1982 is
not legally enforcable.

5) The economic incentive to kill kan-
garoos is growing rapidly, product diver—
sity is increasing and markets are
expanding.

6) Eastern Australia suffered the most
severe drought on record in 1982/83
and kangaroo mortality in the major

continued on page 3

 




 

Defended by
dolphins

If your boat sinks under you when you’re
out fishing several miles from land, you
have little choice but to swim for it. And if
the sea is alive with sharks your own
chances of staying that way for long — long
enough to reach shore and safety — are
not usually too bright.

Disaster of just this kind struck Jeffery
Barry of Jacksonville, Florida, one fine day
last May. But luckily for him help from a
most unusual quarter came his way.
Throughout his 12-hour swim to land he
was escorted on all sides by dolphins.
Sharks eyed him but kept outside the de-
fending ring.

    

Why a whale sanctuary is
needed!

A right whale (Eubalaena australis) killed in
Brazilian waters. The Brazilian Foundation
for the Conservation of Nature conducted
an investigation into the killing of this highly
endangered species for submission to the
1983 meeting of the International Whaling
Commission.

 

Boycott tuna?

Friends of dolphins may have to re-
instate the boycott against tuna fish if
problems related to enforcement of
the Marine Mammal Protection Act
are not solved soon. A larger number
of dolphins died in the giant purse
seines in 1982 than in any year since
1977, when improved fishing prac-
tices were instituted so that the major-
ity of encircled dolphins could escape
from the nets in which the valuable
tuna fish were caught.

Earlier this year intransigent tuna
boat captains won a court ruling that
prevents government observers from
monitoring compliance with the
Marine Mammal Protection Act. This
ruling makes it impossible to enforce
the law with regard to dolphin protec-
tion.

According to a report by the En-
vironmental Defense Fund: “The dis—
trict court allowed federal observers on
board to gather scientific data, but the
Appeals Court denied the govern—
ment’s right to put them aboard for
any purpose. As a result, NOAA is re-
moving its observers from tuna boats
as they return to port and is sending
no new ones out.

“ ‘The possible consequences of this
ruling are alarming,’ said Michael J.
Bean, EDF Wildlife Program Chair-
man. ‘In 1980 a former tuna crewman
reported that his boat, with no federal
observer, killed porpoises at nearly tri-
ple the rate of boats with observers
that year. Since only about a third of

all vessel trips have observers, actual
porpoise mortality in recent years may

far exceed government estimates,

which are based solely on data from
vessels with observers.’ ”

Humanitarians should express their
dismay at this serious turn of events
whereby the courts are undermining
the intent of an important part of the
Marine Mammal Protection Act. Ad-
dresses as some of the major purvey-
ors of tuna follow:

Mr. William P. Stiritz, President

Ralston Purina (parent company
of Chicken of the Sea)

Checkerboard Square

St. Louis, MO 63164

Mr. Ian Wilson, President

Castle& Cook (parent company of
Bumblebee Tuna)

PO. Box 7330

San Francisco, CA 94120

Mr. Anthony O’Reilly, President

H.J. Heinz (parent company of
Starkist)

PO. Box 57

Pittsburgh, PA 15230

Adopt a horse

Since 1973 the Bureau of Land Manage-
ment has found foster homes for 42,000
wild horses and burros. The excess popula-
tion of these animals living on public lands
in the western states is sold off each year to
people who wish to train them for farming,
riding, showing or (in the case of burros)
packing. The charge for a horse is $125,
for a burro $75. For information and an
application write: Adopt—A-Horse, Bureau
of Land Management, US Department of
the lnteriror, Washington, DC 20240.

Brazil’s first

sea park

Brazil has established its first marine
park, Parque Nacional Marinho dos
Abrolhos. It is in a region of coral
reefs off Bahia State coast studied by
Charles Darwin and covers some 266
nautical square miles. Birds that
breed on the small islands include the
red-billed tropic bird, masked and
brown boobies and the sooty tern. A
rich variety of sea life inhabit the sur-
rounding waters.

Argentine judge rules
that Japanese may
not capture dolphins

The Argentine newspaper La Nacion
reports that Japanese companies will not
after all be allowed to capture dolphins in
Argentine waters for shipment to Japan in
order to “entertain the public.” Permission
had been granted but was withdrawn
following a judgment issued on 3 April by
Dr. OscarGarzon Funes.

The case had been brought by two Ar-
gentine conservationists. The judge upheld
their plea that the projected capture would
disrupt the family groups in which dolphins
live, thus leading to emigration and death.
This in turn, said the judge, would upset
the ecological balance and be economically
harmful to future generations.

In reaching his verdict the judge resisted
pressure from his own government which
wanted the authorization granted to the
Japanese to stand.

Kangaroos from pagez

commercial shooting zones (Queensland
and New South Wales) were in the order
of 70%.

7) The latest total kangaroo popu-
lation estimate of 19 million covered the
period 1980-82 and hence is a pre-
drought figure and now outdated.

8) The illegal trade is still ﬂourishing.
The tagging system does not prevent il-
legal skins from entering the legal trade
and there is still an illegal export trade.
Despite these facts, the approved 1983
commercial kangaroo kill quota which
was set in December 1982 remains virtu-
ally unchanged from the 1981 and 1982
levels at 3,143,000.

Despite the strong bonds that link
Australia and the United States, we must
all take urgent action to destroy this
inhumane and destructive industry.

 




 

 

 

Action alert on

whales

Please join the boycott of all fish
products from the outlaw whaling na—
tions. Japan, Norway, and the
Soviet Union have announced their
defiance of the commercial whaling
ban adopted by the International
Whaling Commission last year.

The whaling nations are already
feeling heavy pressure from the fish
boycott. The largest seafood restaur—
ant chain in the US, Long John
Silver’s, has agreed to stop all fish pur—
chases from the outlaws. The
1300-restaurant company cancelled
$5 million in orders from Norway.

Ask your local restaurants and
supermarkets to help send a message
to the greedy fishing industries of
Japan, Norway, Peru, and the Soviet
Union. These nations export to the
US. huge quantities of cod, shrimp,
fresh and canned salmon, canned sar-
dines, and other fish.

In particular, write letters to these
two companies which import large
amounts of fish from the whaling na-
ﬁons:

SAFEWAY MARKETS
Mr. Dale Lynch, President
Fourth & Jackson Streets
Oakland, CA 94660

RED LOBSTER INNS OF
AMERICA

Mr. Joe Lee, President

General Mills Corp. Restaurants

255 S. Orange Avenue

Orlando, FL 32802

 

Elephant bill seeks tough laws to save

“remaining herds”

A bill entitled the “Elephant Protection
Act of 1983” was introduced on 24
May by Congressman Anthony C.
Beilenson with 70 co-sponsors. A
similar bill passed the House in 1979
but failed to gain Senate approval.

“We must curtail the international
trade in elephant ivory if we want the
elephant to survive,” Congressman
Beilensen urged.

“In 1970, there were an estimated
5,000,000 elephants in Africa. By
1980, the population of elephants had
dropped to 1,300,000, and their
numbers are continuing to decline,”
Beilenson stated. He continued:
“While habitat loss due to drought, de-
forestation and urbanization is con-
tributing to the rapid decline in num-
bers, it is the deliberate slaughter of
elephants for their valuable tusks that

Eager beavers

Round-the-clock river workers are effi-
ciently repairing the the damage of
erosion along Muddy Creek, Wyom—
ing. What’s more these highly skilled
dam builders are giving their labor for
free! All they are asking for — and get-
ting — is plentiful supplies of logs and
branches and even old tires.

Just why do these paragons work
like beavers and all without benefit of
pay? For one simple reason: they are
beavers.

In olden times erosion was no prob-
lem in these parts. The beavers kept
the spring ﬂoods in check with strong
dams. Then came man — and trou-
ble. The trees along the bank were

poses the greatest threat to Africa’s re-
maining herds.”

Regulations issued by Interior have
not stamped out illegal importation.
The Elephant Protection Act would
place a 6-month moratorium on ivory
imports, with narrowly drawn exemp-
tions. After the moratorium, the legis-
lation would permit ivory importation
only from nations which meet strict
standards set by Interior, with empha-
sis on the establishment of a strong
elephant conservaton program. The
State Department could provide as-
sistance to nations wishing to develop
a program to protect and manage their
elephant herds. And enforcement
would be improved through use of
very severe penalties and by allowing
ivory imports only through Seattle and
New York.

felled and the beavers were thus
robbed of their dam—building material.
Erosion set in.

The US Bureau of Land Manage-
ment did some sums and came up
with a figure of $50,000 a mile if re-
pairs were entrusted to humans. So
the beavers were given the contract.
The results? Erosion has been re—
duced; trees are re-appearing on the
banks; the water table is rising; new
marshes are developing; fish and wild—
life habitat is improving. Indeed so well
have Muddy Creek’s beavers per—
formed that other areas with erosion
problems will now also get a beaver
task force.

Arab falconers pose threat in Canada

The Northwest Territories provincial gov—
ernment of Canada has issued seven per-
mits for the capture and export of gyr
falcons. It is proposed that two of these
birds be sold to falconers in the Middle
East.

The proposal has infuriated the Cana-
dian Wildlife Federation and been fiercely
opposed by several Members of Parlia—
ment. One of them, Jim Fulton, has de—
clared: “Once the birds are sold in the Mid-
dle East we’ll be inundated with buyers.
Arabs will pay a king’s ransom for a hunting
falcon and if they find out the birds can be

bought legally here, our falcon population
will be wiped out.”

Gyr falcons, reports a Canadian news—
paper, are also being trapped by Arctic In—
uit hunters for illegal sale — at the instiga-
tion of smugglers whose market is Kuwait
and Saudi Arabia. The Inuit hunters may
receive as much as CA $10,000 (US
$8000) for each bird, but its value rises
10-fold once it reaches the Middle East.

The North American population of the
gyr falcon Falco rusﬁcolus is in Appendix II
of CITES. But outside North America it is
an Appendix I species.

 




 

 

What future for Kenya’s parks?

by Simon Muchiru, Environment Liaison Center, Nairobi, Animal Welfare In.-

stitute International Committee Member.

The following are excerpts from two articles by Mr. Muchiru which appeared in
The Standard (Nairobi) March 11 and 12, 1983.

The future of Kenya’s National Parks and Game Reserves — which pro-
vide the last refuge for endangered species such as rhino and cheetah ——
is under threat. Pressure to settle landless people and the agricultural en-
croachment of the immediate park environs is posing an imminent
danger to these remnant islands that are so important to Kenya’s

economy.

A large part of Nakuru Lake forest,
in the world-famous Lake Nakuru Na-
tional Park has already been lost to
settlement. A super highway will soon
destroy the best grassland habitat
found in the park. . . .

The preservation of genetic diversity
is both a matter of insurance and of in—
vestment necessary to sustain and im—
prove agriculture, fisheries and forest
production. It also acts as a buffer
against harmful environmental
change.

The genetic material contained in
the domesticated varieties of crop
plants, trees, livestock and aquatic
animals as well as their wild relatives,
is essential for the breeding programs
of edible crops in which continued im-
provements in yields, nutritional quali-
ty, flavor, durability, pest and disease
resistance, are achieved. . . .

It is quite clear that Kenya’s parks
are not the best agricultural and settle-
ment lands. Given the bio-geographi—
cal set—up, water and climatic con-
straints, agriculture is obviously not the
answer.

On the other hand, if the lands are
left for wild animals capable of adapt—
ing to the prevailing climatic condi-
tions, the Government would then be
maximizing the use of the parks. It is
on these unspoilt lands, with their va-
riety of wildlife, that Kenya’s prosper-
ous tourist industry depends.

The prestige and profits that the Na-
tional Parks bring to Kenya place a
global responsibility upon the govern-
ment and its people to conserve and
protect their wildlife and their parks.

While they take upon themselves
the responsibility of conserving their
cultural heritage, the people of Kenya
should benefit both from the profits
and the educational and aesthetic
values of the wildlife.

Today, only a few Kenyans can af-
ford the entry fees to the parks and

these people are usually the wealthier
ones. Reduced rates and the introduc—
tion of coupons for organized local
groups would increase local tourism.
At present the majority of the people
feel that the parks are set aside for the
recreation of wealthy Europeans and
Americans. . . .

It is clear that an integrated landsuse
system can put an end to the Man-
Wildlife conﬂict. One such system is
already in use in the Amboseli Na-
tional Park and seems

The nutritional importance of wild
ﬂora and fauna for a large number of
people is invariably underestimated,
largely because many of the more fre-
quently eaten plants and animals
seldom feature in the diets of nutrition-
ists and they are harvested in places
far from the scrutiny of statisticians.

The future of the parks will still be
uncertain if the population increases at
the present rate of 4. 1 %. There is need
for sound family planning. Kenya can-
not afford to multiply its numbers be—
yond their feeding capacity. Whether
or not the government does its best in
this direction, ultimate success will de—
pend on the cooperation and
awareness of its people on family plan-
ning issues.

Between 1978 and 1981 rhinos de-
clined from 1080 to 820, and
elephants from 63,000 to 52,656.
These declines call for urgent conser-
vation action. The country needs a
new commitment to conservation by
its leaders.

President Moi has already set an ex—
ample. But of those who rally behind
him, only a few are really aware of,
and understand, the intricacies of the
conservation problems and values of
wildlife. .

Therefore, spreading the conserva-
tion gospel is a challenge to conserva-
tion education institutions. They must
endeavour to reach all levels of the

suitable .

 

Large tracts of Kenya’s parkland is lost to
settlement as the population increases.
President Moi starts a tree planting project
to help counterbalance the deforestation.

Kenyan community, students, rural
people, political and civic leaders.
Short seminars for all these groups
should be organized.

Conservation information should be
disseminated through rural newspa-
pers, church and women’s bulletins.
Social workers can help convey the
conservation message to the grass-
roots levels.

The Ministries of Education should
include environmental education in
the school syllabus as an examinable
subject and encourage teachers to use
outdoor facilities to teach the subject.

Regardless of international ﬁnancial
and moral support for conservation,
the future of wildlife and parks
depends on Kenyans themselves and
on the political will to give intelligent
directions to conservation for suitable
development. Until people under-
stand why they should safeguard
ecosystems and species, they will not
do so.

 




 

This project does not need
West Africa’s wild chimps

Back in 1978 the vigilant and hard-hitting Sierra Leone Environment and
Nature Conservation Association — SLENCA for short — won a big vic-
tory for its country’s chimpanzees. By inveighing against their forced ab-
duction from the forests to research institutes abroad, by exposing the
brutal methods of capture and by pointing to the dangerous decline in
wild populations, SLENCA finally compelled the government of this
West African country to ban the export of chimpanzees.

Now SLENCA is once again sounding the alarm. It reports that the
medical firm Immuno wishes to establish a Hepatitis Research Institute.
The animals to be “researched on” are chimps — or, to state it plainly,
Sierra Leone’s chimps. But the firm is not seeking to have the export ban
lifted. Artfully it plans to get around the little problem by setting up its
research institute inside Sierra Leone ——- once government permission is

granted.

This permission, SLENCA insists,
must be withheld. Otherwise the spec-
tre of extinction will again be raised.
Immuno says it will use “only” 60-80
chimps each year. Maybe, but hepati—
tis research requires baby chimps and
removing just one baby from its family
group means first of all shooting four
or five guardian adults. In other words
60-80 live babies in the laboratory
mean 300-400 slain adults.

The notion that such carnage can be
avoided by using tranquilizer darts
rather than bullets is wishful thinking.
In next door Liberia a similar hepatitis
research project undertaken by Vilab
tried substituting darts for guns, but it
was a total failure. So Vilab then
resorted to the usual method of ac-
quiring chimps — buying them from
local hunters who captured them in
the usual way (wholesale slaughter).

Once the baby chimps have com—
pleted their spell of forced lab labor,
Immuno apparently believes they can
be “rehabilitated” and then returned to
the wild to live happily ever after. This
is another prime example of wishful
thinking. The animals’ traumatic ex-
periences will have left wounds which
rehabilitation, however expert, may
not heal. And if, against all the odds,
they were to survive when back in the
wild, there is then a very real risk of
hepatitis spreading through the chimp
colonies and human population. For
there is no way of knowing whether a
chimp used in hepatitis research has or
has not become a carrier.‘

The World Health Organization has
stated that stamping out hepatitis is a

6

priority health need. Immuno is mak-
ing much of this but fails to mention
another statement made by WHO last
year. This declares: “Endangered, vul-
nerable and rare species should be
considered for use in biomedical re—
search projects only if they are ob—
tained from existing, self—sustaining
breeding colonies.”

There are, of course, large numbers
of chimps in research labs around the
world — over 1000 in the US alone.
But while breeders charge highly for
their animals, the local hunter will
gladly do business for a knock-down
price. Cheap chimps are wild chimps
— while supplies last.

“Our research,” says Immuno, “will
not bring about a decimation of
chimps in the wild; on the contrary
their population in the country will re—
main stable.” This is an astonishing
claim. There is no evidence to support
it and a great deal to contradict it.

There is one curious aspect of this
whole business which merits a men—
tion. Living in Sierra Leone is a no-
torious wildlife dealer who fought long
and hard against the ban on the export
of chimpanzees. His name is Franz Sit-
ter. He is an Austrian emigre. Immuno
is an Austrian company.

Please write to the President of
Sierra Leone respectfully requesting
him to continue his government’s wise
protection of chimpanzees and to re—
ject the unsound proposal of the Aus-
trian commercial laboratory, Immuno.
He may be addressed: Dr. Siaka
Stevens, President, State House,
Freetown, Sierra Leone

 

Nadia (sister/foster-mother), Chiclette

(around neck) and Nanette
A Family Saga

Chiclette, a baby collared lemur
(one of a species gravely threatened
with extinction), born one quarter of
the normal birth size and bearing a
remarkable resemblance to E.T. (see
above), has become the pampered
darling of the staff at the Duke Univer-
sity Center for The Study of Primate
Biology and History.

Chiclette’s miniature proportions
seem to be due to her unusual choice
of parents. Mother Yvette is a grizzled
veteran of the Duke breeding program
and is now about 30 years old. This
translates into 80 to 90 human years.
Four of the infants born to Yvette have

   

Jim Wallace, Duke News Service

 




 

 

lived
Chiclette is the fifth. Chico, the proud
father, is an even more extraordinary

longer

than a week, and

success story. He grew up in
Madagascar where he was kept with
chickens after being purchased by a
South African geologist from a family
that had already killed (and eaten) his
mother. Carefully tended, his broken
leg set, he unfortunately grew to
adulthood fixated on humans and
chickens. Later a Duke University
graduate student rescued him from
rockthrowing children and, in June,
1975, Chico arrived to live at the
Duke Primate Center. Over a period

Jim Wallace, Duke News Service

of eight years he gradually dropped his
aggressive behavior towards other
lemurs and finally evinced an interest
in mating during the breeding season.
Yvette’s fading charms eventually
turned the trick, and December 1982
saw Chico’s first breeding occur. Oc-
togenarian Yvette became a mother of
a baby weighing 26.75 grams. How-
ever, she did not have enough milk to
nourish the infant. The Primate Center
staff worked round the clock to tend
and feed their miniscule treasure.
Every few hours she was hand fed
using a tiny syringe fitted with a rubber
nipple.

  
 

The serendipity continued. On April
19th, Yvette’s only other daughter,
Nadia, gave birth to a normal—size
female, Nanette. That very afternoon,
Chiclette was given to Nadia to nurse
and rear with Nanette. So, she is being
raised by her own half sister acting as a
adoptive mother with her own niece
acting as playmate. The group photo—
graph ( left) shows how well this
is working out as Chiclette grows in
size and strength. Her weight has
doubled, (see upper right) and the
staff believes every sign points to a
healthy survival for this enchanting
creature.

VIC€

Duke News Ser

Jim Wallace,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Physiologists, biologists approve 5.657 SKF takes a

but vested interests seek delay

The long-standing confrontation be-
tween the biomedical establishment
and the major animal welfare organi-
zations recently underwent a basic in-
ternal shift when the prestigious
American Physiological Society (APS)
expressed support for 8.657, the Im-
proved Standards for Laboratory
Animals Act, introduced by Senator
Robert Dole (D, KS). The APS Coun-
cil voted unanimously at its annual
meeting in Chicago in May to endorse
the bill.

The American Institute of Biological
Sciences, (AIBS) a federation of 35
scientific organizations, expressed a
similar position in a May 18th letter to
Senator Dole, noting that 8.657
“would provide a logical approach to
ensuring good quality humane care
and treatment of laboratory animals,”
and that it would not impede good
research. AIBS emphasized the de-
sirability of the bill’s approach in amen—
ding the federal Animal Welfare Act
whose standards have governed
laboratory animal care and housing
since 1966.

The American Veterinary Medical
Association, too, has expressed
general approval of 8.657.

Opposition to the bill has largely
taken the form of support for a study
bill which no less than 60 scientific
organizations are listed as endorsing.
The 18—month study which would be
undertaken by the National Academy
of Sciences using Department of
Health and Human Services funds

could slow action on 5.657
Strongly advocating the study bill is

the Association for Biomedical Re-
search, a trade association started by
the multinational laboratory animal
breeder and dealer corporation,
Charles River. The study bill has been
incorporated into the NIH authoriza—
tion bill by both Senate and House
Committees. But so far, study provi-
sions have not been able to block man-
datory ones.

Skirmishes in the House Committee
on Energy and Commerce, recently
resulted in the defeat, by a close vote
of 19 to 22 of an attempt to substitute
a study amendment for the Walgren
proposals incorporated in the NIH
authorization bill. At the subcommittee

8

level, both the study amendment and
the Walgren provisions were approved
by the Committee, but even after the
vote, those who sought to block any
mandatory action tried to use commit—
tee report language to make the
18—month study come first before the
Walgren requirement for an outside
member of the animal care committee,
and the provision of $20 million over a
three—year period for development
of alternatives to laboratory animals,
could become law. This effort failed,
but it demonstrates the tenacity and
resourcefulness of opponents of ad—
vancement of laboratory animals.

Note; at hearings July 20, American
Physiological Society testimony was far
less supportive than indicated by the
report received or the APS letter sent to
Senator Dole.

Animal Welfare Act

“Animal Welfare Enforcement FY
1982” has just been issued by the
Animal and Plant Health Inspection
Service of the US. Department of
Agriculture.

Inspections conducted by APHIS
totalled 20,979. These included 1,340
pre—licensing inspections. Un-
announced inspections are conducted
at the more than 7,000 sites where
animals protected by the Animal
Welfare Act are kept. These include
laboratories, dealers’ premises, zoos,
airports, airplanes, and trucks.

1,017 investigations of apparent
violations were made. The highest
percentage of violations requiring legal
action came from dealers, with carriers
and research facilities second and
third.

169 of the 1,016 registered labora-
tories reported that they used 130,363
animals “experiencing pain or distress
(drugs omitted because they would in-
terfere with the purpose of research or
testing).” 723 institutions reported a
total of 465,518 animals “to which
pain relieving drugs were administered
to avoid pain or distress.” This is an
area which requires closer scrutiny
than it has had to date.

stand

On laboratory animals a major pharmaceu-
tical house has come into line with many of
the objectives both of animal welfare bodies
and of a bill that is now before Congress.
Smith Kline & French has adopted specific
operational policies similar to those pro-
posed in S. 657 introduced by Senator
Robert Dole (R., KS). According to the
recently issued “Coordinator’s Report” of
the Coalition to Abolish the LDSO, the fol-
lowing policies will be implemented by
Smith Kline & French’s Director of Labora—
tory Animal Science:

0 “Each animal experiment shall be
scientifically justifiable.

0 “The number of animals utilized for
each experiment shall be the minimum
necessary to obtain the required data . . .

0 “Wherever feasible, alternative
methods that do not require animals shall
be utilized.

0 “Animal studies of a seemingly un—
warranted nature, but which are required
to meet regulations set by external agen-
cies, will be reported to the Director of
Laboratory Animal Science.

0 “Animal tests required by regulatory
authorities in certain countries, but gen-
erally not by others, will be reported to the
Director of Laboratory Animal Science . . .

0 “ln-vitro test methods developed to
replace in-vivo studies are to be docu-
mented so that other areas may consider
potential applications.

0 “Test methods developed as substi-
tutes for animal testing shall be recorded in
a centralized reference entitled ‘Alternative
Methods for Animal Testing.’ The same
publication consideration should be given
to these methods as to other scientific pub-
lications.

“The number of animals utilized for each
experiment shall be the minimum neces-
sary to obtain the required data . . .”

“Wherever feasible, alternative methods
that do not require animals shall be utilized.

“Animal studies of a seemingly unwar-
ranted nature, but which are required to
meet regulations set by external agencies,
will be reported to the Director of Lab-
oratory Animal Science.

“Animal tests required by regulatory au-
thorities in certain countries, but generally
not by others, will be reported to the Direc-
tor of Laboratory Animal Science . . .

“ln-vitro test methods developed to
replace in-vivo studies are to be
documented so that other areas may con-
sider potential applications.

“Mistreatment of animals is a serious
violation of policy and may be grounds for
dismissal. ”

 

 

 




 

 

 

Pain limitation discussed by veterinary lecturer

A new elective course at the School of
Veterinary Medicine, University of Califor-
nia at Davis entitled “Ethical and Concep-
tual Problems in the Use of Animals” was
made available to third and fourth year
veterinary students in a series of ten lec-
tures given by ﬁfteen differentpeople, April
through June of this year. Forty-three
students took the course.

The lecture on the use of animals in re-
search and teaching was presented by Dr.
Joe Spinelli, Director of the Animal Care
Facility at the University of California at
San Francisco, and Christine Stevens,
President of the Animal Welfare Institute.

Dr. Spinelli stessed major problems with
federal standards on pain. “What level of
pain will we allow?” he asked. “In
laboratory animals, we must assume post-
surgical discomfort and be very intensive in
the use of post~surgical analgesia,” he said.
He also emphasized the importance of the
quality of the surgery and the necessity for
aseptic technique. All healing, he said,
should be first intention healing. He called
for more descriptive material as to levels of
pain for use by committees that examine
proposals for experimentation to determine
“at which point you will never allow it.”

In research on pain, he quoted a sugges-
tion from the journal Pain that, if possible,
the experimenter shall try the pain stimulus
on himself. He cited an example of a proj-
ect which was not approved: subjection of
monkeys to a level of shock which the ex-
perimenter said would not hurt the animals
but which she declined to undergo herself.

How to detect chronic pain was dis-
cussed by Dr. Spinelli who pointed out that
while acute pain in both people and
animals usually results in a fighting re-
sponse, chronic pain in humans is charac-
terized by depression. When animals
become depressed showing no human in-
terest in food or sex, he recommended,
“That’s the time to terminate the animal,”
because it is probably suffering severe
chronic pain.

In studies involving pain, Dr. Spinelli ad-
vised giving the animal control over the
painful stimulus as in the rat tail-ﬂick test
which measures the point at which the in-
creasing heat of a light causes the rat to ﬂick
its tail away. When testing a strong
analgesic it is necessary to preset the light
so the tail is not burned because the rat
can’t feel the heat. In tests on chronic pain,
he said, there are methods for animals to
administer pain relieving drugs to
themselves.

With regard to housing of laboratory
animals, Dr. Spinelli gave veterinarians
credit for doing a good job of cleaning up
diseases, “bUt we possibly missed the boat
on how the environment may psychologi-
cally affect animals.” Under his authority,

Dr. Hal Markowitz has been engaged by
the University as a consultant for improving
the lives of experimental primates, and the
development of computer-type games for
monkey cages with food rewards is under
consideration. A scientist interested in brain
function believes the monkeys will be more
normal and therefore superior from a
research point of view.

The article by Markowitz and Schmidt
published in the Animal Welfare Institute’s
Comfortable Quarters for Laboratory
Animals was cited by Mrs. Stevens in her
presentation.

She pointed to the shortcomings of The
Guide for Care and Use of Laboratory
Animals of the National Institute of Health
especially with regard to cage sizes.

“The biggest improvements in laboratory
animal care and housing have come as a
result of the Federal Animal Welfare Act,
passed in 1966, amended in 1970 and
1976. Yet the veterinarians who inspect
laboratories for the US. Department of
Agriculture’s Animal and Plant Health In-
spection Service continue to ﬁnd gross
abuses of the trust which the public places
in major institutions of learning — institu-
tions into which billions of dollars of tax
funds have been poured over the years.
Let me quote from USDA reports in
1980-82 on two institutions in this state.

“Psychology Department, University of
California at Berkeley: ‘Primate cages are
in a state of disrepair including broken,
protruding wires . . . food being placed on
bottom pans where it is contaminated by
urine and feces. . . .’

‘Approximately 6 cricetid rodents left in
pans on outside deck were drowned and
left decomposing in pans. . . .”

‘Completely blocked, non-functional
drain.’

‘Open bag of feed pellets still on table
top, festooned with cobwebs.’ "

“School of Public Health, UCB: ‘No
species separation —— no cage washing —
no quarantine space —— poor ventilation
control;’ ‘the room is filthy and infested
with flies;’ ‘all food receptacles must be
kept clean and sanitized at least every two
weeks not just when the rabbits are
changed (upwards of several months)’- ”

“Department of Zoology, UCB: ‘Hot
water has been inoperative for some time;’
‘heavy fecal buildup. . . heavy ﬂy and
odor buildup ’ ”

“Division of Animal Resources, UCB:
‘Random check of identification on cats —
one cat had two tags — one with a USDA
number (62095) and also a UC tag of 528
—- 528 does not correspond to this cat.’

“Stanford University Medical Center:
‘pits in the floor an inch deep;’ ‘other
rooms have no source of heat;’ ‘drain pipe
of the sink in the necropsy room empties

onto the ﬂoor.’ ”

‘No ventilation (cats);’ ‘primate in a cage
13 by 25 inches that does not provide ade-
quate space for this animal;’ ‘algae in the
watering bottles.’

‘Rabbits are being splashed with wash
water and/ or acid during cleaning. Ob-
served rabbits with sore hocks and soaked
matted hair masses.’

‘Whelping room . .

‘Frozen and broken water bottles.

Student questions and discussion re-
vealed basic concem for animal welfare
and active interest in protection of
laboratory animals. One student asked Dr.
Spinelli, “Do you support the Dole bill
[S657] and if not, why not.”

The course may be continued next year
as a required part of the curriculum.

Abuse of laboratory
animals in Poland

The following is taken from an “ofﬁcial
report” made by the Polish Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

On 11 April 1983 we inspected the animal
accommodation at the Department of
Physiology of the Medical Academy in Kra-
kow. In a very small room with a stone
floor which is permanently wet we found
some 20 cats. When we opened the door
they came up to us without fear.

We asked to be shown the files of the test
animals but Dr. Radecki told us they were
in the care of the secretary of the Depart-
ment who was out. He admitted that two-
thirds of the animals came illegally; they
were caught and delivered to the Depart-
ment by people living on the “social mar-

in.”
9 Of course, it is much easier to capture a
pet cat than a wild one. Dogs are caught in
the same way, when unleashed and run-
ning free. No wonder that more and more
people in Krakow are searching sorrowfully
for their pets.

In a test room we found three big Alsa-
tians hanging helplessly on belts. They

were emaciated and exhausted. Mrs. ,Tas-
Ier who carried out the “experiment re-

fused to give us any information about its
nature or purpose and showed us the
doon

In many Western countries in order to
obtain permission to experiment on higher
animals — such as cats and dogs —- a sci-
entist must apply to senior authority and
provide a thorough justification. Unfor—
tunately it is different in our country. It is
high time that Polish lawyers paid attention
to this neglected and depressing matter.
For information on the symposium
“Standards for Research with

Animals: Current Issues and Pro-
posed Legislation” phone 617-

423-41 12.

. no ventilation ’

’9,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Jean Vinter

Dr. F. Jean Vinter, author of the first
and second editions of Facts About Furs,
died this winter. Her leadership in the Uni—
versiﬁes Federation for Animal Welfare,
the Greek Animal Welfare Fund, and the
Society for the Protection of Animals in
North Africa, and her generosity to the
Animal Welfare Institute in shipping her ex-
tensive ﬁles on fur and trapping to us to
assist in the preparation of the third edition
(1980) of Facts About Furs were of enor-
mous value.

A holder of the degree of Doctor of
Medicine, Jean Vinter had a highly disci-
plined, intellectual outlook. A lecturer and
maker of documentary films, she travelled
extensively in North Africa and Greece to
pursue her work for the welfare of animals.
Tributes to her from all the organizations
she served are epitomized in the obituary
published by the Greek Animal Welfare
Fund: “Kind without sentimentality, brave
without arrogance, detached in her schol-
arship yet profoundly humane in her feel-
ings, Dr. Vinter represented the very best
qualities which we hope to achieve in our
work.”

Alaska: lynx
slump as trapping
booms

Trappers up by 50% since 1974, lynx
down by 97% in the 10 years 1971-81
That in a nutshell is the dismal story
from the Kenai Peninsula, Alaska. In
the Anchorage Daily News of 23
March, Ted Bailey, a research biolo—
gist with the US Fish and Wildlife Ser-
vice, attributes the lynx’s catastrophic
decline directly to increased trapping
pressure, especially in the “natural
sanctuaries.” These sanctuaries are
where the young are reared to maturi—
ty before dispersing to other areas.

Bailey points out that the lynx
population will normally ﬂuctuate in
line with that of its chief prey, the
snowshoe hare. But because lynx con-
ﬁnued to be trapped heavily during a
recent “low” in the hare cycle, the
breeding population suffered severely
and is now too thin on the ground to
take full advantage of the present
“high.”

The Fish and Wildlife Service rec-
ommended that the trapping season
on Kenai Peninsula be shortened by
30 days. The state opposed this but
did agree to a 15-day curtailment. Will
half measures, though, be enough to
save the lynx?

10

Monitor awards for
law enforcement

Eleven US. government officials re-
ceived awards on June 1 for exposing
black markets in birds and chemicals, and
for uncovering crimes involving en-
dangered species and for enforcing the
Animal Welfare Act.

The officials from seven states and the
District of Columbia were honored by
Monitor, a Washington-based consortium
of conservation and animal welfare groups,
at its annual awards meeting at the George-
town home of Conservationist Henry Hey-
mann.

Monitor credits the agents and other offi-
cials with tracking down and prosecuting
some of the most notorious offenders of
wildlife and other animal protection laws,”
listing hunting by aircraft, illegal salmon
fishing and fur smuggling among the major
violations.

Recipients of the awards — sculptures of
fin whales designed by John Perry, creator
of the internationally famous ﬂying whale,
“Flo”, — are:

H. Clark Connor, Washington, D. C., a
Justice Department prosecutor and former
assistant US. Attorney, who has success-
fully brought to trial numerous unlawful
traders in exotic birds, snakes, walruses
and other marine mammals.

US. Fish and Wildlife Special Agents:

F. Dale Home, of Oklahoma City,
Okla, and Peter S. Nylander, of Beau-
mont, Tex., for disclosing that hawks,
owls, bald and golden eagles, woodpeck-
ers and scissor-tailed ﬂycatchers were being
killed by the thousands to supply an illegal
market for such feathered items as Kachina
dolls, Indian war bonnets and Peyote fans.

James M. Stinebaugh, of Ft. Worth,
Tex., for bringing about the prosecution of
four hunters who were ﬁned $5,000 each
for shooting deer from a helicopter.

William E. Ferguson, of Lake Charles,
La., for uncovering a major black market in

PERIODICAL PLEASURES

In “Fur Age Weekly,” Bob Harrowe writes
a column called “Getting It Straight.” In the
May 2, 1983 issue, Harrowe “gets it
straight” on animals and pain. His argu-
ment is so interesting I’ll quote the sum-
maﬁon.

“But, who is to determine the level of
pain, if any, in an animal? Animals can’t
talk. We don’t know how much pain is re—
quired to make an animal howl. It’s pos—
sible that even a stroke of a feather would
bring out what seems like a cry of pain from
an animal . . . If I were tied down by velvet
thongs, I would call out for help. Were I a
Dumb animal (italics mine), unable to com-

azodrin, a highly toxic insecticide that killed
hundreds of ducks and geese in Louisiana.
Three chemical dealers were charged with
violating Environmental Protection Agency
regulations, and a farmer was prosecuted
for poisoning waterfowl.

Charles E. Graham (retired) of Atlanta,
Ga, whose 33-year career as Agent in
Charge of the Southeast District included
the manatee protection program in Florida
and Puerto Rico, “sea turtle patrols” to
guard nesting sites, the Alabama deer
poaching cases and the much publicized
“snakescam” cases.

Gust J. Nun (retired) of Albuquerque,
N.M., for a 25-year career that strength—
ened ties with Mexican wildlife ofﬁcials and
saw the inception of patrols to protect mi—
grating whooping cranes and peregrine'fal-
cons. As Special Agent in Charge, his ef-
forts also included “Operation Rio Bravo,”
a joint endeavor other government agents
to intercept illegal traffic in drugs and

wildlife.
National

Agents:

Penelope Fields and Richard Severtson,
of Seattle, Wash, whose investigation of
large-scale illegal salmon ﬁshing on the Co—
lumbia River led to a number of Federal in-
dictments under the Lacey Act.

Marine Fisheries Service

Department of Agriculture inspectors:

Dr. Cecilia Sanz, (DVlW) of Scotia, NY,
an Animal Care Specialist with USDA’s
Veterinary Services, for her rigid enforce-
ment of the Animal Welfare Act. As the
result of Dr. Sanz’ inspections, two USDA-
licensed laboratory animal dealers, a road-
side zoo operator and a commercial dog
dealer have turned in their licenses, and
two other laboratory animal dealers are fac-
ing prosecution.

Willie B. Cry, of Albuquerque, N.M.,
Area Compliance Officer, for his investi-
gation that led to the ﬁrst criminal case
against an unlicensed dog dealer, now
on three years’ probation, performing com-
munity service as part of his sentence.

by John Gleiber

municate with humans, couldn’t that be in-
terpreted as a cry of pain? ”

Apart from his trying to imagine himself as
a dumb animal, 1 am most fascinated by
Mr. Harrowe’s defense of the use of steel
jaw leghold traps by comparing them to
touches of a feather or pieces of velvet.
Feathers and velvet do not lacerate, crush,
maim, bloody or break. Anyone who can
look at even a photograph of an animal re—
leased from a trap, nursing its injuries or
hobbling on a stump, and wonder out loud
and in print if it might have felt pain is living
on a very peculiar level of consciousness.
Very peculiar, indeed!

 




 

 

Books

Betrayers of the Truth: Fraud and
Deceit in the Halls of Science
by William Broad and Nicholas
Wade. New York: Simon & Schus-
ter. 256 pp. $14.95.

You have to hand it to a certain Mideast-
ern biochemist. He learned to make some-
thing'out of nothing. The “something” was
a scientific reputation and entree to presti-
gious US labs when he had a shaky aca-
demic background and no competence in
research. The “nothing” is the junk that
often passes for a scientific paper today.

By plagiarizing a mediocre paper from
an obscure journal and sending it to an—
other obscure journal as his own work, he
amassed an impressive list of published re-
search. Since few read the stuff anyway, he
was accepted at face value. Such are the
clever Charlatans who grace the pages of
this important book.

Science writers William Broad and
Nicholas Wade have brought together a
number of cases of fraud and plagiarism to
make the point that scientific research is far
from being the pure search for truth it is
touted to be. They reveal it as the very hu-

 

Let’s Save Antarctica! is a celebration,
complete with magnificent color photo-
graphs, of the unique beauty of the only
continent on Earth to have escaped the
ravages of man. Until now, that is. For now
Antarctica too is under threat. The book
discusses the nature of these threats and
how best to counter them. The author, Jim
Barnes, is co-founder of the Antarctic and
Southern Ocean Coalition. Order from:
Universe Books, 381 Park Avenue South,
New York, NY 10016. Price $6.95.

man, career-driven,
pursuit it actually is.

They cite a few ancient cases as back-
ground —— Newton fudged his numbers;
Ptolemy stole some of his star positions.
But most of the cases are modern, many
having come to light in the past decade.
The authors use these incidents as a means
to examine the state of modern research
which has produced them:

Pressure-cooker laboratories where
workers are driven to publish or perish
tempt researchers to cut corners, faking
data or stealing the work of others. The
need to climb a career ladder, win prizes,
and secure patents is likewise an incentive
to fraud. A system in which laboratory
chiefs co-author papers to hog credit while
doing little of the work breeds lax supervi-
sion.

Add to this an elitist system whose lead-
ers are blinded by the myth of scientific re—
search as a self-policing activity, and you
have fertile soil for fraud.

The authors have done a workmanlike
job of presenting their material and analyz-
ing the problem. They make some recom-
mendations for reform that deserve atten-

temptation-ridden

tion:
Institutions should have formal proce-

   
   

W

on 8 April.

Chin strap penguins are among the unique inhabitants of the Antarctic.

dures for dealing with fraud. Co-authors of
papers should have had a major share in
the research. Supervisors should actually
supervise.

One wonders why such common-
sensical measures were not adopted long
ago. Happily some universities are begin-
ning to set the needed standards.

But an important aspect of the problem
is neglected. The authors focus hard on the
system. But what of the individual? Hones-
ty is an individual responsibility. The book
would be much improved by a chapter on
the ethics of research and the responsibility
of individual scientists to themselves and to
society.

Yet, this caveat aside, the Broad-Wade
book should be read by all who are inter-
ested in the scientific enterprise and its role
in society. Most importantly, it should be
required reading for every student who as-
pires to a research career.

Reprinted by permission from The Chris-
tian Science Monitor. @1983 The Chris-
tian Science Publishing Society. All rights
reserved.

A slightly longer version of this review by
Robert C. Cowen, the Monitor’s natural
science editor, appeared in that newspaper

Let’s Save Antarctica, James N. Barnes

 

Animal Welfare Institute

Scientific Committee

Marjorie Anchel, Ph. D.
Bennett Derby, M.D.

F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D.
Roger Payne, Ph. D.
Samuel Peacock, MD.
John Walsh, MD.

lntemational Committee

T. G. Antikas, D.V.M. -— Greece
Angela King—United Kingdom
David Ricardo—Canada

N.E. Wernberg—Denmark
Godofredo Stutzin-—Chile

Simon Muchiru—Kenya
Ambassador Fumihiko Togo—Japan

Officers

Christine Stevens, President
Cynthia Wilson, Vice President
Marjorie Cooke, Secretary
Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer

Directors

John Beary, M.D.
Madeleine Bemelmans
Gerard Bertrand PhD.
Marjorie Cooke
Christabel Gough
David 0. Hill

Sue Hunt

Freeborn G. Jewett, Jr.
Christine Stevens
Aileen Train

Cynthia Wilson

 

Staff

Patrick Allen, Editorial Consultant
Cynthia Bank, Administrative Assistant
Diane Halverson, Research Associate
for livestock and poultry

 

Lynne Hutchison, Whale Campaign Secretary
Cathy Liss, Research Associate

Felicity Luebke, Publications Secretary

Lynda Power, Administrative Assistant

Nell Naughton, Mail Order Secretary
Greta Nilsson, Wildlife Consultant
Adele Schoepperle, Assistant Treasurer

 

 

11

 




 

HRH Prince Philip opening TRAFFIC airport exhibit at Los Angeles International

Airport as Mayor Tom Bradley looks on.

CITES continued from page 1

The trading ban was also extended to
four species of bottlenose whales, large
animals which could bear the brunt of
future whaling when the IWC ban on the
ten great whales takes effect.

The long-standing attempt by the U.S.
Interior Department to delist the bobcat
from Appendix II — and therefore open
unrestricted killing and trading in their
valuable pelts — was rebuffed decisively by
the CITES delegations after conserva-
tionists demonstrated that bobcat popula-
tions in North America are under severe
pressure already from trapping and that
population data on the species is inade-
quate.

The U.S. delegation, led by Ray Arnett,
Assistant Secretary of Interior for Fish,
Wildlife and Parks (and former head of the
Wildlife Legislative Fund of America),
made the bobcat delisting its top priority at
CITES. The U.S. federal courts have
repeatedly rejected attempts by Interior to
evade the CITES requirements on exports
of Appendix II species. The courts have
ruled that bobcat pelts can only be ex-
ported from states where credible scientific
data show the populations are healthy and
can sustain the kill. Many state ﬁsh and
game agencies have been unable to com-

Animal Welfare Institute
PO. Box 3650
Washington, DC. 20007

ply; they are bitterly opposed to inter-
national regulation.

The U.S. was forced to withdraw not on- ,

ly the bobcat delisting proposal, but also
proposals to take the lynx, river otter, gray
wolf and grizzly bear off Appendix II.
Credible evidence that the populations are
healthy and that trade in their products
would not be detrimental was lacking. The
British proposal to allow trading in green
sea turtle meat from the Cayman Islands
Turtle Farm, strongly supported by the
U.S., was similarly withdrawn after strong
criticism from the conservation and scien—
tific communities that such trade would
probably increase the sale of poached turtle
meat and such an exemption would knock
a gaping loophole in CITES policy.

The United States government, once the
leader in international wildlife conserva-
tion, has abdicated this position. On this
tenth anniversary of CITES, statements
and actions by the U.S. delegation made a
mockery of the proud moment in 1973
when the treaty organization was formed at
the behest of the United States. Indeed, the
informal name of the treaty group is the
Washington Convention, in honor of the
site of the formative meeting.

Dr. Mostafa Tolba, executive director of
the United Nations Environment Program,

Prince Philip
speaks out

Anyone trading in animal products
really ought to take the trouble to
discover the origin of those products.
After all, reputable antique dealers
take a lot of trouble to make sure they
do not deal in stolen goods.

Prince Philip, International

President of the World

Wildlife Fund.

as he opened the treaty meeting stated:
“At the Washington Conference ten
years ago, fears were expressed that the
proposed convention might be manipu-
lated into a tool to prevent the trade in
wildlife resources; those fears have not
been realized as CITES has matured into
an effective regulatory body helping de—
veloping nations to safeguard their valuable
stock of wild plant and animal species. The
fact that CITES has now been ratified by 81
countries — including most of the world’s
major producing and consumer countries
—— is ample testament to the speed with
which it has proved its usefulness to
governments, some of which, I think it is
fair to say, were skeptical at first about the
potential value of such a convention.”
Tolba continued: “But then, ten years
ago some governments, particularly those
in the Third World, were similarly skeptical
about the value of conservation in general.
This view has been overturned at the con-
ceptual and practical levels as we have
come to see that conservation of wildlife
and other living resources is an indispens-
able component of sustainable develop-
ment. By demonstrating the economic im-
portance of controlling the trade in wildlife
and wildlife products, CITES has played a
significant role in this about-turn.”

Non-Profit Organization
U.S. Postage
PAID

Bronx, N.Y.
Permit No. 8898

 




JOIN AWI TOQAY

The Animal Welfare Institute promotes the welfare of all
animals and seeks to reduce the total of pain and fear
inflicted on animals by man. Major concern are cruel
trapping devices, destruction of whales and other
endangered species, excessive confinement and deprivation
of animals raised for food, and mistreatment ofanimals used
for experiments and tests.

As a member of AWI you will receive the following benefits:

0 A year’s subscription to The Animal Welfare Institute
Quarterly

0 An invitation to the annual presentation ceremony of the
Albert Schweitzer Award and to the reception in honor of
the recipient
The opportunity to obtain a single free copy of new AWl
books and other publicatiaons as they are issued
Interim special information mailings about whales

0 An annual report
All contributions are tax deductible

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE MEMBERSHIP APPLICATION

Please enroll me as an AWI member.

Patron, $100- $500; Supporting, $25- $100; Regular, $15; Student/Senior Citizen, $5.
Amount Enclosed $

 

NAME

 

ADDRESS

 

CITY STATE ZIP

 

The Animal Welfare Institute is a non-profit, educational organization established in 1951
to reduce animal suffering and protect endangered species. A copy of AWI’s annual
report is available on written request to AWI or the New York State Department of State,
Office of Charities Registration, Albany. NY. 12231.

 




 

 

 

NO POSTAGE
NECESSARY
IF MAILED
IN THE
UNITED STATES

 

 

 

BUSINESS REPLY MAIL

FIRST CLASS PERMIT NO. 13607 WASHINGTON, DC.

 

 

POSTAGE WILL BE PAID BY ADDRESSEE

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P.O. Box 3650
Washington, DC. 20007

 




THE

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

-‘ "j T E ' LY

 

P.O. BOX 3650 WASHINGTON, DC. 20007

SPRING 1984

VOL. 33 NO. 1

 

_::.
;: . If 4.
.' ,a i.‘
i

by Gail Eisnitz

When Ella Erie of Le Roy, Minnesota
returned home from a funeral on the after-
noon of January 5th, she was not greeted by
the familiar barking of her ten year old
border collie. She and friend Herbert sear-
ched the garage where Rex had been chain-
ed, but found only the strange tire tracks of
a vehicle which had backed up to the door.

Down the road about ﬁve miles, Wayne
and Bonnie Siskow and their children were

‘

wners reclaim stolen do

combing their farm for Sheba — a two year
old miniature collie who had vanished from
inside a barn. Two years had passed since

s

When Wayne went to Mayo to claim his dog

Sheba, he saw wet dogs whose cages were being
cleaned with the dogs in them. He is holding the

USDA tag that was still on Sheba when he got her

home.

Rex, owned by Ella Erie and Herbert Woolart,
LeRoy, MN. When Ella went to recover him the
Mayo laboratory man tried to make her pay to get

her stolen dog back.

‘~_.‘.".‘>’-<"7‘
’7'. in

' w

T e I

of sperm whales.

the Siskow’s pet shepherd had mysteriously
disappeared, and a year before that,
Wayne’s brother had lost a dog in a similar
manner.

Norburt Rud’s red retriever, Dennis
Hammeister’s blue tick coon hound, valued
at $3,000, and Jim Boe’s Scottish collie
would also be taken from their owners’
Stewartville residences on that very day.

if”.

‘ ‘Sperm Whales ’ ’
Richard Ellis

At its annual meeting in Buenos Aires, the International Whaling Commission voted on the
quotas for the ﬁnal year of commercial whaling before the agreed cessation. Most signiﬁcant
decisions were the ban on sperm whale killing and reduction of the kill of minke whales in the
Southern Ocean to 4,224, a quota which Soviet, Japanese and Brazilian Whalers must divide
among themselves. Cost of sending whaling vessels to antarctic waters is high. The 40% quota

continued on page 11

gs from Mayo’s

After allegedly stealing the dogs, buncher
Greg Green trucked them to his home in
Dexter, Minnesota, a town of about 900
people, 20 miles north of Le Roy. Neigh-
bors would later recall the incessant barking

continued on page 2

Most brutal and
non—selective of

implements
by Hope Ryden

I commend the distinguished Chairman
and the Subcommittee for addressing the
need to proscribe the leghold trap in the
United States. This device is the most brutal
and non-selective of implements used to
capture animals and I urge passage of this
legislation.

As a naturalist and author of several
books and many articles on North American
wildlife, including Bobcat Year, God’s Dog
(on coyotes), America ’s Last Wild Horses,
and The Little Deer of the Florida Keys, I
have spent much time in wilderness areas
tracking and studying my subjects. As a
result, I have had ﬁrst—hand experience with
the leghold trap and its victims. In fact, at
times I have found it necessary to abandon
research areas as a result of the prevalence
of this device and its effects on the popula-
tion of animals I was trying to observe.

Before describing trapping impact on
wildlife, however, I should like to tell you
about my experiences with the leghold trap
close to home and involving pets. Anyone
who believes that trapped animals do not
suffer should have been with me one after-
noon in October of 1980 while I was walk-
ing with my two dogs in a wooded area
some thirty-ﬁve miles northwest of New
York City. For ten years I have rented a
weekend cabin in this protected watershed
area, which provides drinking water for a
number of neighboring communities in nor-
thern New Jersey and several small towns
in New York State. The area is off-limits to
outsiders for obvious reasons. The water
supply must be protected from deliberate or
inadvertent pollution. Trespassers are sub-
ject to prosecution and severe penalties. The
six families that are permitted to rent ex-
isting houses in the area are carefully

screened and would be held responsible for
continued on page 6

 




Mayo continued

which had emanated from Green’s prop-
erty. The following day (January 6th),
Green delivered four of the animals, at $10
per dog, to USDA dealer Donald Hippert of
Kasson, Minnesota—operator of a so-called
Animal Shelter.

On Sunday, January 8th, Julie and Ran-
dy Tapp and and their three children, left
their Austin, Minnesota home for approx—
imately one hour. When they returned, they
found only a very frightened cocker spaniel
— one of their two pets. The other, a
shepherd—collie mix, had never before
wandered off. The Tapps would spend the
next seven days searching for him on a
snowmobile.

At around 5:00 P.M. on January 8th,
Don and Kathy Adams of Le Roy
discovered that their part St. Bernard was
missing. Smokey was just one of ﬁve
animals which Hippert purchased from
Green for $12.00 that afternoon.

 

Smokey, a St. Bernard mix, was listed by both

dealer and research facility as a brown mongrel.

Dave and Mary Grignon, a young Austin
couple, left their two pets locked inside a
pen near the garage on January 12th. When
they returned from work that day, the ken-
nel dOOr was ajar, and their basset hound
sat nervously on the farmhouse steps. That
afternoon, Green sold the Grignon’s black
Labrador to Don Hippert, along with two
other dogs — one which the buncher had
purportedly “adopted” from a local animal
organization

Isaac, a purebred Labrador retriever had lost 40
pounds and was extremely ill when he was

reclaimed.

Although Hippert has a USDA dealer’s

license Green does not, and such quantities
of dogs cannot be sold without a dealer’s
license. The purpose of the regulation is to
prevent theft.

 

The recovery

 

Hippert, ignoring this essential rule de-
livered Green’s dogs together with 53 others
to the Mayo Institute and the University of
Minnesota.

 

 

“We really did try every avenue to find our dog,” said Dave Grignon in a recent interview,
To the Grignon’s Isaac was a member of the family. Aside from advertising their missing pet in
local newspapers, the couple spent hours each night driving around Austin, searching for their
dog. Mary, who recalled seeing dogs used for experimentation when she was in college, con-
tacted research facilities at both the University of Minnesota and the Mayo Clinic to ascertain if

either had encountered her pet.

Note: Isaac, an unusually large black
Labrador, had injured his foot a week
before his disappearance. At the time he
was stolen, a fresh white scar with stitches
was visible on his foreleg. The Grignon’s
felt confident that the scar would serve to
identify their pet. (“We were lucky that
way,” explained Dave. “We felt that he
couldn’t be missed or mistaken”)

The University in St. Paul had not admit—
ted any dogs fitting Isaac’s description. At
the Mayo Clinic, however, a staff member
promised to look for the Labrador, and
assured Mary that she would be contacted if
Isaac turned up. THIS WAS NEVER
DONE.

Then, on January 19th, Dave and Mary
Grignon received a “tip” through a friend,
suggesting that they conduct their own
inspection of Institute Hills Farm —— the
Mayo Clinic’s laboratory animal facility.
Dave rushed to Rochester —- to the building
where roughly 500 dogs are housed. He
entered the first of nine rooms and, in his
own words, “Boom! Isaac was right there.”

That evening, after recovering their pet,
the Grignon’s phoned friend Carol Kough,
who had been searching tirelessly for Isaac,
and neighbor Julie Tapp, whose shepherd-
collie mix had been missing for nearly two
weeks. Kough and Tapp then contacted a
number of individuals who had advertised
their lost pets in area newspapers, and ar-
ranged to meet at Institute Hills Farm the
following afternoon.

‘ ‘I had no idea we were going to find one
dog, let alone several,” said Carol Kough.
Of eight families who had gone to the re—
search facility on January 20th, ﬁve had dis-
covered their pets. Ella Erie, Julie Tapp,

 

The Grignons, whose Labrador had lost
upwards of 40 pounds during his week long
ordeal, spent much time and money at the
veterinarian’s after recovering Isaac. “Part
of it was that he had dropped weight, but ac-
tually . . . he had developed some kind of
bug plus kennel cough . . . The vet was go-
ing to put him on i.v.’s if at one point in
time he didn’t get better,” explained Mary
Grignon.

As for Rex, the Border Collie, his owner
called his condition “awful. There wasn’t
much to him. He was starved, and when I
got him home here, I started giving him
water, and I thought he was going to kill
himself drinking water. I had a 5-quart pail
filled two-thirds of the way with water, and
he left just the littlest bit in the bottom. He’d
drink and then he’d turn and walk around a
little bit, and then he’d go right back to
drink.”

Conditions of recovered do 8

and Kathy Adams were among the owners
who rescued their dogs that afternoon.

Due to television and newspaper
coverage of the incident, within a week of
Isaac’s recovery from Institute Hills Farm,
another 15 stolen dogs had been identified
at the Mayo Clinic.

Note: In this case, the stolen dogs
recovered from the Mayo Clinic were
rescued from 2-16 days after delivery to the
research center. Because Mayo Clinic
policy requires all new dogs to be condition—
ed for 21 days prior to use in experimenta-
tion, none of these animals had been used in
research.

Unfortunately, the owners of two of the
16 stolen dogs found at the Mayo Clinic
were never located, and these animals were
later used for research. Two additional
shepherds from the same lot of stolen dogs
turned up at the University of Minnesota.
One of these animals died of unknown
causes, while the other was used in
experimentation.

Hippert’s records indicated that he had
purchased the dogs from Gregory Green.
On January 23rd, Mower County
authorities searched Green’s home. While
they were unable to ﬁnd any dogs, Green
was arrested on charges of felony theft,
possession of controlled substances, and
damaging police property.

Green was arraigned in Mower County
on January 24th and released on 353000
bond. His trial was scheduled forJuly 23rd.
If convicted of felony theft, he faces a max-
imum sentence of five years in prison, and a
$5000 fine. In Olmstead County, where
several of the dognappings took place,
Green faces similar theft charges.

 

 

When they found Rex at MayO’S, Mayo
employees “questioned us because they
weren’t sure it was our dog. Then we took
Rex’s picture out. When he saw that, h6
couldn’t say much more you know . . .
There was a guy that kind of rubbed up on
my shoulder and he said, ‘Are you going to
write me a check?’ ’ ’ Asked how long it tOOk
Rex to get back to normal, his owner
answered, “He really isn’t back to normal
yet . . . He isn’t the dog he was. He can’t
run anything like he did when they took
him. I’ll tell you, I think that deal took a lot
of years out of his life.”

Smokey’s owner told how sick the big dog
was. ‘ ‘All he did when I saw him in the ken-
nel was lift his paw when I got in there . . -
He’s got St. Bernard in him and they C311
look so sad, and he just didn’t even look like
the same dog. He had lost a lot of weight. I

continued on page

 

 




 

Mayo continued

brought him home, and he came to life a lit-
tle when he seen the kids. But then he just
lay down and he didn’t hardly move. So we
took him to the vet, who said that he had a
hundred and ﬁve temperature, his lungs
were congested, and he had a cough. She
sent me home with a bunch of anti-
biotics . . . He was very, very dehydrated.
He drank a 5-quart pail of water and half of
another one. Just non-stop . . . It took him
about a month to recover.”

Mr. Cool apparently had been beaten.
His owner said, “When we got him back
from over there, our opinion of his condition
was that he was beaten. His sides were sore.

 

Contrary to USDA regulations under the
Animal Welfare Act, Mayo’s often leaves
dogs in the cages while they are being hos-
ed. Several owners of reclaimed dogs ob—
served animals that had been wet by hoses.
Ironically, while the dogs are subjected to
this extreme unwholesome treatment, a large
proportion of the animals exhibited intense
thirst after being confined at the Mayo In-
stitute. Water deprivation is a major cruel-
ty. Virtually every anti-cruelty law in the
world includes as one of its major re—
quirements that animals be provided with
water. The Animal Welfare Act, of course,
makes such a requirement.

Even if no laws were being violated,
enlightened self-interest should prevent
Mayo’s from dehydrating its experimental
dogs, destined to be used in experimental
surgery. Recovery from surgery is directly
dependent on adequate hydration. How
many dogs has Mayo’s subjected to novel
surgical procedures only to see them die for
lack of the most basic necessity of life:
water?

Mayo’s reportedly used an average of
2,000 dogs per year over the past three
years. Until the recent dog theft scandal
broke in local newspapers and television,
Mayo’s purchased dogs at the door directly
from people who told them they wanted to
sell their dog. Even now Mayo’s accepts
“gifts” of dogs. Note the photograph of the
sign now posted outside the door of the

Conditions at Mayo’s

—_
—_

 

Somebody had kicked him. When you
touched his sides, he’d yelp . . . He was
very thirsty. He drank an ice cream bucket
full of water, and he was hungry. He was
coughing.”

Mayo personnel gave some of the dog
owners a hard time. “They were trying to
make Rex’s owners pay . . . I think the vet
over there changed his attitude towards me
and Carol when he saw Randy . . . He was
giving us grief and then when Randy came
in, he just shut his mouth and took us back
there.” Randy said, “There was a short,
fat, stocky guy who had a bad attitude.
That’s the one that asked Ella how much
she would give them to get their dog back.”

 

Mayo Institute stating: “ALL PLEASE
NOTE... WE NO LONGER PUR-
CHASE DOGS FROM INDIVIDUALS,
BUT WE CONTINUE TO TAKE
THEM AS GIFTS.”

 

Mi. §LE§§$E tiiiiﬁ ......
RE SC: t§§§£§é §t§§€§§§3£ {HESS Fﬁﬁfi

il‘iﬁi‘iﬁiﬁw’xiﬁ. "3%? iii Wliﬂﬁﬁﬁ T8

ms; was $23 szsfs zzzzzzzz ’

 

 

 

 

Sign posted on door to office of Mayo Institute Hills

Farm and on the kennel door.

 

Action 81, under the leadership of Mary
Warner, has focussed public attention on
the theft of dogs for sale to laboratories and
the pet industry, and has provided informa-
tion used in the best selling novel Nop’s
Trials by Donald McCaig. The address is
Action 81, Route 2, Box 151, Berryville, VA
22611. The telephone number is

 

703-955—1278.

 

 

 

 

ALTERNATIVES TO ANIMAL
EXPERIMENTATION

by Michael Balls, Chairman of the Trustees of FRAME (Fund for the Replace-
ment of Animals in Medical Experiments) Headquarters: 5b The Poultry, Nottingham

NG1 2JR, United Kingdom

It is now widely felt that for ethical, scientiﬁc, economic and political reasons, the current re-
liance of biomedical research on live animal experiments cannot be allowed to continue.
FRAME was founded in 1969 to seek cooperation with scientists, industrialists, politicians and
members of the general public, in a search for realistic alternative approaches. Through its
scientiﬁc journal (A TLA, Alternatives to Laboratory Animals), its quarterly bulletin (FRAME
News), its independent Toxicity Committee, its multi-centre Research Program, and its educa-
tional campaign, FRAME seeks to identify and to stop those animal procedures which are un-
necessary, to encourage the reﬁnement of those procedures which are for the time being
necessary, and to promote the development of valid alternatives.

The current trend toward extremism and
confrontation results from a lack of agree—
ment on what should be done to solve the
problem. I do not consider that the answer
can be provided either by those who call for

an immediate and total ban on all animal
experiments or by those who argue that
scientific research by any means and for any
purpose is justified, and that scientists
should be left alone to regulate their own af-

fairs and to set their own standards. Nor can
a solution be found in long philosophical
polemics on the rights of animals or on
human duties toward them. This is a prob—
lem for society as a whole.

The word alternatives has come to have a
special meaning in this context — to include
all procedures which can completely replace
the need for animal experiments, reduce the
numbers of animals required, or diminish
the amount of animal suffering. The range
of available or potential alternatives
includes:

I improved storage, exchange and use of in-

formation so that needless repetition can be
avoided;

I improved design of experiments, including
the involvement of statisticians at the design
stage and not merely in the assessment of
the data obtained;

I mathematical modelling of structure-
activity relationships and of biochemical
and physiological processes;

I the use of lower organisms, such as bacteria
and fungi, as in the Ames test for
mutagenicity;

I in vitro techniques, including the use of
subcellular fractions, short-term cellular
systems (cell suspensions, tissue biopsies,
tissue slices, whole organ perfusion), and
tissue culture (the maintenance of cells,
tissues, and the whole or parts of organs in
a nutrient medium for 24 hours or longer);

I human studies, including epidemiology,
post-marketing surveillance and the
carefully regulated use of human volun-
teers.

These alternatives have not yet been
developed to the point where they could re-
place animal experimentation on a signifi-
cant scale. That will require time, patience,
research of the highest scientiﬁc calibre, and
rigorous and independent assessment of
what is achieved and the new methods that
are proposed.

Tissue Culture

FRAME’s main research project is con-
cerned with the use of cell-culture methods
in toxicology. There is a good chance that a
number of quantitative tests for general cell
toxicity will be devised, for use in combina-
tion with tests for genetic toxicity and non-
biological alternatives (e.g. mathematical
modelling), for screening large numbers of
chemicals, and for selecting candidate
chemicals for further study. Such a first-
order test system would contribute to a
reduction of acute toxicity testing in
animals.

A wider range of cell-culture methods for
various specialized cell types (e.g. from the
liver, kidney, pancreas, skin, nervous
system) will also be developed, for use as
part of a second—order test system for pre-
dicting the likelihood of adverse effects in
particular organs in the intact body.
FRAME also hopes to establish related re-
search projects on the use of Human tissue
culture and on the use of tissue culture in
drug discovery.

It is vital that an intelligent strategy be
devised, both for the development of the
alternatives and for their integrated use.
The various non-biological and biological

continued on page 4

 

 




 

Alternatives continued

alternatives should not be seen as rivals, but
as partners in the search for ways of predict-
ing effects and responses in man without
such ready resort to animal experiments.

Political Initiatives

Governments inescapably play a central
role in all questions related to animal
experimentation because:

I they permit and regulate the use of
animals in laboratories (in the UK
through 'the Cruelty to Animals Act of
1876);

I they require animal experimentation
(through regulations which control the
introduction of new drugs, pesticides
and other chemicals);

I they fund animal experimentation
(either directly in their own institutions
or indirectly through grant-giving
bodies);
they are elected by citizens who have
views on this issue;
they have the power and resources to
encourage the development of alterna—
tives.

On this last point, positive action has
been taken by the Swedish government
through its National Board for Laboratory
Animals, which gives grants for alternative
research, while the Swiss government has
recently announced that a speciﬁc sum for
this purpose has been set aside by the Fonds

NationaI Suissc. Government initiatives
could also contribute to reducing both the
number of animals used in toxicity testing
and the amount of distress suffered by
animals which still have to be used. What is
needed is international harmonization of
regulations so that:

I regulatory guidelines are guidelines and
not requirements;

I animal toxicology does not have to be
repeated for the regulatory authorities
of other countries unless valid reasons
are given; i.e. there should be mutual
recognition of foreign data;

I tests are not required in species which
can be proven in advance to be inappro-
priate as models for man;

I numerical indices (e.g. the LD50) are
not overvalued or used as substitutes for
proper toxicological investigations;

I what is pointless is identiﬁed and dis-
continued, the prime example here be-
ing the classical LD5O test, which
should be abolished for many categories
of chemicals, including pharmaceuti-
cals;

I there is continuous reappraisal of safety
evaluation tests in the light of new
scientiﬁc knowledge.

If animals must continue to be used in
laboratories, we must be more concerned
about their treatment and welfare. There is
no country in the world where standards of
care and supervision could not be raised.

 

Everybody’ s talking about laboratory animals

Never before have there been so many symposia and meetings focussed on the
way laboratory animals are treated. Starting with the National Institutes of
Health symposium held in the National Academy of Sciences auditorium April
11 and 12, research and test animals have drawn substantial scientific audiences

from all over the country.

I The National Coalition for Science and Technology sponsored a workshop, ‘ ‘The Use of
Animals in Research and Testing”, May 7, 1984.
I The University of Cincinnati Medical Center held a conference April 26-27 entitled

“Humane Care of Animals.”

I The Scientists Center for Animal Welfare sponsored a workshop at The John Hopkins
University May 21—22 entitled “Animals and the Scientist: Institutional Responsibilities. How
to Run Effective Animal Care and Use Committee.” Interest ran so high that people had to be
turned away even with their 1595 registration fee in hand.

I Yet to come is The National Capitol Area Branch of The American Association for
Laboratory Animal Science session “Laboratory Animal Welfare — Points of Agreement”
scheduled for September 26, and the three meetings announced by NIH for comment on the
proposed new policy on Laboratory Animal Welfare, July 19 in Kansas City, July 24 in
Boston, and August 3 in Seattle.

I Nature magazine’s Opinion Section, May 3 carried a commentary on that new policy
statement entitled “Double Talk on Animals — NIH seems more ready to risk its reputation
than to meet serious critics on animal care”. After comparing NIH’s new style to that of antivi-
visectionists, Nature continues: “One has to feel even more uncomfortable at the nagging
suspicion that NIH’s simultaneous announcement of a new and supposedly tougher set of rules
for the care and use of laboratory animals is nothing more than a part of this same public rela-
tions campaign. This conclusion can only be reinforced by NIH’s simultaneous release of a
study of animal experimentation at ten research institutions, chosen at random, that ﬁnds the
old rules are working ﬁne and that there are no problems to correct. If so, why correct them,
unless the aim is to make a — very public — point?

“In reality, the new regulations, which the institutional animal care committees
7

are published as a proposal open for public
comment, do very little. Research institu—
tions under the new regime will not only
have to ‘commit themselves to implement-
ing’ animal care requirements —— they will
now have to ‘implement’ them, a major
crackdown if there ever was one. The only
substantive change in the proposal is that

4

charged with monitoring the use of
laboratory animals at each research institu—
tion, would have to include one outside
member.

“NIH director James Wyngaarden set
the tone for the NIH stance when, at last
month’s meeting, he declared his ‘deep con-
cern’ that public support for laboratory

 

experiments involving animals may be
eroding, the result of ‘politically
sophisticated critics’ who are attacking
animal experiments as unnecessary and in-
humane. NIH arguably have a role in
public education to counter this trend, but
need not sacriﬁce integrity in the process. If
‘political sophistication’ means issuing
meaningless regulations for the sake of ap_
pearances, NIH are better off with naivety,
Or is it that by invoking the bogey of rabid
antivivisectionists seeking to shut down
biomedical research, NIH hope to distract
attention from some serious proposals for
reform (as opposed to revolution)?

Turning to “sensible criticisms from sen-
sible people”, Nature points out that
Senator Robert Dole “has introduced legis-
lation that, while respecting the absolute
freedom of researchers to design scientiﬁc
protocols and to make their own judgements
on the necessity of using animals, would
clamp down on some of the more serious
persisting abuses in the care of laboratory
animals and their use. The bill would re-
quire the use of analgesics, tranquilizers
and anaesthetics except when scientiﬁcally
impossible, would forbid the use of the same
animal in more than one major operative
procedure and would require either proper
postoperative care or prompt euthanasia.
Enforcement would be left largely to the
animal care committees, which would have
to certify in regular reports that experiment-
al procedures involving animals followed
these requirements. Signiﬁcantly, the bill
does not limit the freedom of scientists to
proceed with such experiments; it does, sen-
sibly, require that investigators ‘consider’
alternatives and consult with a veterinarian
in planning procedures involving unanaes-
thetized animals.

There is hardly anything subversive
about these proposals. (Nor is there any-
thing subversive in demands of animal
welfare activists, such as Mrs. Christine
Stevens of the Animal Welfare Institute,
that inspections now required by federal law
should actually be carried out to ensure that
laboratory animal care meets the published
guidelines — which means basic things like
clean cages, proper food and proper ventila-
tion.) The US Department of Agriculture,
which is charged with carrying out the in-
spections, has never been given the funds to
discharge its responsibilities under the law.
Yet such inspections as it is able to carry 011t
reveal continued problems in these basic
necessities for humane care. NIH would d0
well to face up to these issues, rather than is-
suing pronouncements full of sound and
fury that signify nothing.”

Taub grant

termination conﬁrmed

The Department of Health and Human
Services Grant Appeals Board issued a ﬁnal
ruling May 21 on the termination of the
grant to The Institute for Behavioral
Research. Principal Investigator Edward
Taub appealed the previous ruling and a
seemingly interminable hearing took plaCC-

Continued on page 9

 




 

Long-time friend of animals and science introduces H.R. 5725

Congressman George E. Brown, Jr. (D,
CA), who has been a leader in animal protec-
tion and in the advancement of science, in-
troduced H.R. 5725 on May 24, 1984, to
amend the Animal Welfare Act to ensure
the proper treatment of laboratory animals.
The bill is similar to Senator Robert Dole’s
S. 657, and it begins with the same ﬁndings:

“The Congress ﬁnds that -—

“(1) methods of testing that do not
use animals have been developed
which show promise of being faster,
less expensive, and more accurate than
traditional animal experiments for
some purposes and further opportun-
ities exist for the development of these
methods of testing;

(2) measures which eliminate or
minimize the unnecessary duplication
of experiments on animals can result
in more productive use of Federal
funds: and

“(3) measures which help meet the
public concern for laboratory animal
care and treatment are important in
assuring that research will continue to
progress.”

Congressman Brown guided through the
House the 1978 Humane Slaughter Act
which empowered inspectors at all federally
inspected plants to stop the slaughtering line
on the spot if any cruelty occurs. Senator
Dole was responsible for the bill’s passage
in the Senate.

Congressman Brown brought about the
National Institutes of Health symposium,
“Trends in Bioassay Methodology,” which
discussed alternatives to laboratory animals.
He is Chairman of the Subcommittee on
Department Operations, Research, and
Foreign Agriculture of the House Agricul-
ture Committee and former Chairman of
the Subcommittee on Science, Research,
and Technology; and as he stated when he
introduced the bill, “I have spent many
years studying the use of animals in ex-
periments.” He further stated: “. . . the
trauma experienced by these animals from
procedures necessary to the experiments
should be the only trauma they must face.
Dehydration, poor sanitation and ventila-
tion, lack of presurgical and postsurgical
operative care and lack of exercise — when
not interfering with speciﬁc research pro-

USDA brings additional charges against Missouri dealer

JoEtta L. Anesi, in business as Jo’s Kennel, at Kirksville, Mo. , has been charged repeatedly
with violating standards of the Animal Welfare Act by the US. Department of Agriculture.

According to Dr. Robert B. Moody, chief veterinarian in Missouri for USDA’s Animal and
Plant Health Inspection Service, APHIS is asking for a $1,000 ﬁne, revocation of the kennel
owner’s federal license, and a cease—and—desist order against future violations of the act.

Moody said in addition to previous charges, ﬁve inspections conducted in 1982 and 1983
revealed multiple deﬁciencies including those regarding structural strength of facilities,
storage of food and bedding, watering, cleaning, sanitation, housekeeping and veterinary
care. [Italics ours]

The important point is that APHIS is calling for revocation of the license. The usual prac-
tice is to suspend, so this means a real strengthening in the enforcement process.

Anesi has 20 days to answer the new APHIS charges and can request a hearing before an
administrative law judge. Failure to answer constitutes admission of the charge.

 

Massachusetts .

In Massachusetts dogs and cats who stray from home will be safer owing to a new
state law, signed by the Governor last December. Much publicized because it
bans sales of dogs and cats from pounds to laboratories, it also contains important
humane provisions on euthanasia and on the activities of dog officers throughout

the state.
Key provisions are:

° Dog ofﬁcers must complete a course
on euthanasia techniques. They must
check all dogs against the list of licensed
dogs in the city or town where they were
found. They may not be animal dealers,
nor sell to animal dealers or laboratories.

' Except in an emergency, gun shot
may not be used to kill animals, and
T-61 may not be used except under
supervision of a veterinarian. Electrocu-
tion and succinyl choline are both pro-
hibited.

' Complete records must be kept on
each animal and on its ﬁnal disposition
including the method of euthanasia if
used.

0 Section 8 provides for licensing and
inspection of research institutions that

use animals. Licenses must be renewed
annually and are issued by the Commis-
sioner of Public Health “unless, after
notice and hearing, he ﬁnds that the re-
search institution by reason of its stan-
dards, facilities, practices, or activities, is
not a ﬁt and proper institution to receive
such license, and that the issue thereof is
not in the public interest.” Provision for
suspension or revocation of licenses is
made.

' The Commissioner is empowered to
make regulations and designate agents
to visit the institutions. The Massachu-
setts SPCA and the Animal Rescue
League of Boston are named as agents
that may be selected by the Commission-
er. The animals beneﬁtting from the
regulations are dogs, cats “and all other
sentient creatures except humans.”

 

 

Congressman George E. Brown, Jr.
tocol — and any other situation resulting in
pain to animals from simple negligence is
not acceptable and should not exist. Poor
animal care works contrary to the success of
the research. Ill, malnourished or weak
animals will not perform or react in the
same fashion as healthy animals. Proper
care of laboratory animals increases re-
search integrity and accuracy, and thus
beneﬁts our society.”

Japan’s Schweitzer

Medal winner con-

tinues her good work

Back in 1978 AWI awarded the Schweitzer
Medal to a young Japanese lady for her
stalwart work on behalf of Japan’s
laboratory animals and, in particular, for
her devoted care of post—operative dogs. Six
years on we learn (from the Japan Animal
Welfare Society, JAWS) that Miss Yoko
Muto is still engaged in this work —— down
in the basement of an old teaching hospital
in Tokyo.

In its latest newsletter JAWS also reports
on a colleague of Yoko Muto’s, Miss
Yamaguchi who is a veterinarian. Her task
is to Visit research establishments and to try
to lighten the load of animal suffering she
invariably ﬁnds there. It is an uphill battle.
JAWS speaks of the “depressing repetition
of small cat cages, chained dogs, inadequate
food and water, inadequate light and venti-
lation, the continued use of strychnine for
killing wild dogs, the continued use of
decompression chambers and the fact that
ofﬁcials listened and understood what she
was saying but still did nothing.”

Meanwhile back in the hospital basement
Miss Muto and her helpers not only tend
and care for their unfortunate dogs but also
take in strays as pets while trying to ﬁnd
them new homes.

On October 1, 1986, the prohibition
against laboratory use of impounded
dogs and cats is extended beyond Massa-
chusetts boundaries. No impounded
animals can be imported into the state
for that purpose, and institutions are re-
quired to report in 1984 and 1985 on
their “plans for discontinuation of the
use of such animals.”

5

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Most brutal and non-selective of implements

any action on their part which might jeopar-
dize the water supply. This watershed area
is particularly attractive to me, as a
naturalist, for raccoons, fox, deer, beavers
and birds of all kinds are protected here.
Nevertheless, trappers illegally invade the
area and, in recent years, since the price of
long haired wild furs has soared, it is hardly
safe to take a walk in the region.

On that day in October when my dog
“Zoe” was trapped, I was enjoying the
autumn leaves in this section of the Ramapo
Mountains when I heard her screams. She
is a shepherd-collie mix of unusually stoic
temperament. Her veterinarian describes
her as the most uncomplaining dog she has
ever treated. So when I heard her anguished
cries, I knew she was suffering terrible pain.
I ran to her side and discovered that her
front toes were tightly clamped in steel jaws
and her violent efforts to jerk free were
exacerbating her pain. It was apparent that
if I did not release her quickly, she would
dislocate all of her toes. Yet I could not do
this, for the dog was yanking and pulling
against the trap with such violence that I did
not dare to pull it open for fear the tightly
sprung device would be jerked from my
hands and snap shut again on the animal’s
already injured paw. I called for help at the
top of my lungs and a companion came run-
ning. Together we released the dog; I held
Zoe tightly to restrain her, while he,
needing both hands to do so, opened the
trap. Because we managed to release the
dog within minutes of her becoming trap-
ped, she sustained no permanent crippling.
Had I not been present to restrain her from
self injury, however, she certainly would
have dislocated all of her toes.

My neighbor’s cat was not as lucky as
“Zoe.” It disappeared in the middle of
winter and when a two-day search failed to
turn up the missing animal, my neighbor,
Mr. Thomas Wagner, presumed his pet
was dead. However, on the third day, her
pitiful mews were heard and the cat was
discovered caught by a hind leg in a leghold
trap. The animal was in terrible condition.
Her leg had frozen and ultimately had to be
amputated. My neighbor, Mr. Thomas
Wagner, had to make a decision whether to
have her “put down” or attempt surgery on
her mangled leg. He chose the latter course,
and today the cat hobbles about and cannot
be allowed outside for it can no longer pro—
tect itself from dogs by running up a tree.

Two other dogs in this presumably pro-
tected area were also caught in traps. One, a
Dalmatian puppy whose bones were still
soft, suffered permanent crippling. The
other, a full grown Norwegian elkhound,
recovered from painful injury in about a
month’s time.

Those incidents point up a number of
misconceptions commonly held regarding
the leghold trap. Number one: The weight
of a trap does not in itself determine the ex-
tent of the damage it can inﬂict. The normal
reaction of a trapped animal is to try to
escape. My dog would have dislocated her

6

Continued from page 1

 

 

Eagle feet amputated from Victims of steel jaw traps to save them from gangrene

toes in short order had I not been nearby to
prevent her from doing so. I have observed
animals in the wild who have chewed off a
leg to gain escape from a trap. Number two:
Traps are everywhere. No one’s pet is safe
from these barbaric devices. Number three:
Trapping regulations are of no protection to
pets or wildlife. None of the traps described
above were marked with identification tags
as is ‘required by law. Several were set out-
of—season. All were placed on private,
posted land.

The ﬂouting of existing trapping laws
cannot be dismissed as an isolated pheno-
menon peculiar to New Jersey (which state,
incidentally, has now seen fit to ban the leg-
hold trap.) While conducting field research
in the West, I frequently found illegal, un—
marked and out-of—season traps on our
public lands. In Arizona an angry rancher
(who within the space of a day suffered the
crippling of his two most valuable herding
dogs and an injury to his two year-old
grandson) led me to forty—one out-of-season
and unmarked traps set on the public graz-
ing land he leased. He told me it would be
dangerous for him to protest. If he did so, he
said, the trappers likely would react by
shooting his water tank full of holes or by
leaving his gates opened. I promised not to
use his name when I called the Arizona
Game and Fish to register my complaint:
The game warden I spoke with responded
as follows:

“Enforcement of trap laws is a heart-
breaking job. We can spend four days a
week and that’s not enough. The answer
is a drop in fur prices. If prices fall, trap-
pers won’t bother with the coyote and fox
that much. We only have 51 men to
patrol the whole state. Judges can fine
$300 for trapping offenses but they never
do it. The $30 trapping fee was meant to
slow down trapping but they’re just not
bothering to get licenses. Don’t quote me
on this, but everyone would agree with
me.”

The Arizona Department of Game and
Fish is evidently resigned to the unenforce-
ability of what trapping regulations do exist.
Still, another conservation ofﬁcer told me:

‘ ‘Each officer has 2,000 square miles of
rugged terrain (to patrol). Poachers are
willing to take the small risk of being ap-
prehended and the even smaller risk of
trapping out-of—season and without a

’

license.’

Arizona need not be singled out as an iso-
lated example of poor law enforcement. In
Idaho, in 1979, while attempting to track
bobcats and observe their behavior for a
book I was then writing (Bobcat Year/Vik—
ing Press), I encountered even more
flagrant abuses than what I had seen in
Arizona. The whole business of trying to
locate bobcats in Idaho wilderness areas was
discouraging. The animal, elusive by
nature, had been overtrapped to an un-
known extent throughout the state. I say
“unknown extent” because records of trap-
ping pressure on a species must necessarily
rely on “reported” take. Poachers, of
course, do not cooperate with game and fish
personnel to report either the animals they
meant to harvest or those unwanted animals
they have caught inadvertently and disposed
of. Poaching is rampant in Idaho. In 1980
one dedicated law enforcement officer lost
his life to an irate poacher who gunned him
down in order to escape being cited for his
illegal activity.

As a result of the difficulty I had locating
bobcats to study in the state of Idaho, I de-
cided to look for a research area that was off-
limits to the public, one in which trapping
was not permitted, and I found what I re-
garded as the ideal spot —— the National Nu-
clear Reactor Testing Station -— a 640
square mile high security region. After
obtaining the necessary clearance and
permissions to enter the area, I went to
work there looking for my subject. But bob-
cats were scarce there, too, and after several
weeks of poorly rewarded effort, I discov-
ered why. The security officers who patroll-
ed the area found 80 leghold traps set for
bobcat!

The fact that trappers do not even respect
such a high security area as a nuclear testing
station is clear evidence that this activity iS
ungovernable — one in which participants
are willing to ﬂout regulations for whatever
monetary or psychological reward trapping
brings them. Throughout Idaho conserva-
tion ofﬁcers were even more hard put to
patrol and enforce laws in rugged
wilderness areas than had been those of-
flcers I spoke with in Arizona. Each warden
in Idaho was responsible for patrolling a
3,000 square mile district. Poachers and
scofﬂaws had not the least difficulty eluding
detection.

 

photo — H. R yden

 




\

 

Hearings on H.R. .1797 to end the use of steel jaw leghold traps are scheduled
for August 3, 1984 in the House Subcommittee on Health and the Environment.
Hope Ryden, author and naturalist tells why the steel jaw trap should go.

-——f

And what of the wild animals I have seen
struggling against desperate odds to make a
living in bitter winter weather on only three
legs? I have many photographs of coyotes in
this condition. In the winter of 1973 I watch-
ed a full grown but still young three-legged
coyote posture and beg like a puppy before
an adult pair who then regurgitated food for
it. I surmised that the three—legged animal
was one of their young of the previous year.
On another occasion I found a badger paw
in a steel jawed leghold trap. The animal to
whom it belonged had apparently wrenched
itself free from the brutal device by wringing
off its all—too—important front leg. Badgers,
as you know, must have two front paws in
order to burrow.

  
    

Daniel J. Kelly

And while on assignment for GEO
magazine to study and write about the
American bald eagle, I visited the Univer-
SItY 0f Minnesota Raptor Research and
Rehabilitation Center in St. Paul, where I
WEI-S shown a drawerful of eagle feet —— thir-
ty 1n all — that had been amputated from
bll‘ds crippled in leghold traps.

Of the 237 bald eagles that have been

erlight to this clinic for treatment since it
0P€ned, 59 or 24% have been victims of the
leghold trap. The veterinarian in charge,
Dr. Patrick Redig, expressed the opinion
that these trap casualties represented only
the UP 0f the iceberg. Most trappers, he
531d, Would be too ashamed to bring in a

bald eagle caught in one of their traps and
likely would turn the bird loose without
benefit of medical treatment. Such un-
treated birds, he stressed, would stand little
or no chance of surviving. Redig’s ex-
perience treating 59 trap-injured bald eagles
clearly demonstrates that even those birds
whose traumas appear to be slight steadily
worsen. Tissue damage caused by lack of
circulation below the point of trap constric-
tion almost inevitably results in the death of
the leg. Redig took me on a tour of the bird
wards and showed me a number of one-
legged eagles which could never be released,
for eagles need their feet to kill food.
While at the Raptor Rehab Center, I saw
a screech owl brought in with both legs

 

Daniel]. Kelly
chopped off by a leghold trap. That bird, of
course, had to be euthanized.

Dr. Redig named the species that have
been brought to his avian clinic with severe
trap injuries, a total of 300 birds. These are:
The barred owl, the great horned owl, the
red tail hawk, the rough legged hawk, the
goshawk, the screech owl, the broad winged
hawk, the golden eagle and the bald eagle.

The above descriptions are but a few of
the experiences I have had in the fifteen
years I have studied wildlife. During this
time I have become convinced that the leg—
hold trap is a device that ought have no
place in responsible stewardship of wildlife.
What few laws are in place to regulate this
so-called sport have proved useless. It is
time to get rid of the device altogether for it
is inherently cruel and non-selective. To
what extent the leghold trap has impacted
threatened and endangered species will
never be known. These unwanted victims
are an embarrassment and are not reported.

To obtain some idea of the incidence of
crippling of wild animals caught by'the steel
jawed leghold trap, I would like to call your
attention to a four year study conducted on
the Wheeler National Wildlife Refuge in
Alabama by Thomas Atkinson and publish-
ed in the journal of Wildlife Management.

 

Eighteen trap permits were issued to local
citizens who trapped from the beginning of
the fur season in late November until the
end of the season in late February. The
most common trap used by these people was
the long-spring size 1 % although some No.
3 and No. 1 traps were used, as well as coil
spring, long spring, jump, single jaw, dou-
ble jaw and high grip. One stipulation was
made: The men granted permits to trap on
the Refuge were required to report all crip-
pling that resulted. For purposes of the
study this would include all animals that
had pulled out of traps by wringing off or
gnawing off feet. The following information

resulted:

1) 209 mink were caught during the four
year study; an additional 79 were crippl-
ed (27.6%).

2) The raccoon catch was 429; an addition-
al 137 raccoons were crippled (24%).

3) 962 opossums were trapped; 19 were
crippled. This lower incidence is likely
due to the docile nature of this animal.

4-) There were 196 foxes (red and gray)
trapped; 69 additional foxes were crippl-
ed (26%).

Since the study covered a four-year
period and involved individuals with varied
degrees of trapping skill using a variety of
trap sizes and types and experiencing all
kinds of weather conditions, the percentages
here should give a good indication of the ex-
tent of this problem.

Most nations now recognize the truth
about trapping. Fifty countries and three
states no longer permit use of the leghold
trap, holding it to be a non-selective,
ecologically damaging device that inﬂicts
unnecessary suffering on animals.

I urge the members of this committee to
recommend passage of H.R. 1797. It is past
time that the United States join these
enlightened nations and ban the cruel and
non-selective steel jawed leghold trap.

Daniel J. Kelly

 

 

 




 

 

Greece greets its spring visitors with hail of bullets

In Europe the EEC Directive which forbids the killing of migratory birds. continues to be
brazenly ﬂouted. Previous issues of the Quarterly (see summer 1982 and Winter 1984) have

drawn attention to the callous disregard of the ruling by, in particular, Italy and France whose

hunters twice a year, spring and fall, indiscriminately shoot, snare, net and lime tens and even

hundreds of millions of birds just for “fun”. The trigger-happy ranks have now won a new \
recruit, the EEC’s youngest member, Greece.

On joining the European club in 1981
Greece dutifully acceded to the club’s rules
and outlawed the time-honored seasonal
slaughter. But this year the government has
reneged on its obligation by once more per-
mitting a spring shoot.

It so happens that Athens was the site of
the 4th European Ministerial Conference
on the Environment last April. The Greek
Minister for the Environment, Dr. Antonis
Tritsis, gave assurances that spring shooting
was negligible, ‘ ‘purely a matter of regional
cultural patterns, restricted to limited areas
and confined to turtle doves.” But is the
Minister really aware of what is going on in
the Greek countryside?

It appears not. For immediately after the
conference Dr. van der Ven, an observer to
the Council of Europe for the International
Council for Bird Preservation (ICBP), went
for an all-day walk in the ﬁelds and found
himself “nearly always surrounded by
hunters.” At the end of the day the hunters
had bagged so many cuckoos, golden orioles
and red-footed falcons that it was sometimes
hard to ﬁnd the “legitimate” turtle doves
amongst them.

Had Greek hunters, in deference to the
Minister’s beliefs, conﬁned their spring
shoot to turtle doves, huge numbers of
migrating birds would have been spared.
Nevertheless the hunters would still have
been in breach of the EEC ruling. For while
the Directive gives year-round protection to
a great many migratory species, it gives
seasonal protection to those birds, principal-
ly game birds, for which hunting is allowed.
And one such bird is the turtle dove — a
game bird in France, Italy and Greece. The
Directive unequivocally requires that
“species to which hunting laws apply are
not hunted during the rearing season.”

There are two main aspects of this whole
murderous business: one, the humane is-

sue, the scale and savagery of the slaughter;
two, the conservation issue, the senseless
threat to species whose populations are
already dangerously low. The trouble is that
ornithologists are themselves an immensely
rare species in many Mediterranean lands.
Greece, for example, has over 250,000
hunters but only a handful of serious bird-
watchers — well under 100. There is thus
little pressure on these governments to pro-
tect birds and a great deal of pressure the
other way.

Public education is clearly the primary
task. And this is the focus of the Campaign
for Conservation of Migratory Birds which

On the left, a dead cuckoo and above, an
assortment of song birds killed in Greece.

ICBP and the International Waterfowl
Research Bureau are jointly undertaking.
Drawing from a basic list of 96 Mediterra-
nean birds, ICBP has developed a bird book
for several Mediterranean nations. When
published this will in some cases be a coun—
try’s only reference book on its own birds in
its own language.

For further information, or if you Wish to
con tribute to the protection of M editerra-
nean migratory birds, write to: European
Committee for the Prevention of Mass
Destruction of Migratory Birds, Interna-
tional Council for Bird Preservation, 219C
Huntingdon Road, Cambridge, UK.

 

 

China’ s bird week

In China under the auspices of the
Forestry Ministry the National Association
of Wildlife Conservation as founded last
December. Star billing goes to the giant
panda — every one of China’s one billion
people is being asked to contribute “a small
coin” to its preservation.

But other animals are not being ignored.
During the spring the Association sponsored
a “bird-loving week” — the week varying
with climatic differences in this huge coun-
try. It took the form of an educational drive
in schools and villages.

 

 

No more wild bird sales in New York?

by Greta Nilsson

For the ﬁrst time, there is a chance to stop the inhumane trade in wild birds for the cage
bird trade. Each year, thousands upon thousands of parrots, macaws, ﬁnches, toucans and
other birds are captured in the wild and shipped to the U.S. and other countries for the pet
trade, killing thousands in the process. As many as four wild birds may die for every one that
reaches the pet shop alive. Just since 1980, AWI has learned from mortality reports obtained
from the Department of Agriculture, nearly four million birds have been imported into the
U.S. and of these, 500,000 died in transport or in quarantine stations. Some shipments in-
volve a huge mortality — 468 of 750 Grey Parrots from Senegal arrived dead at New York’s
Kennedy Airport recently and 1648 of 3624 Nanday Conures were dead in a shipment arriv—

ing in Los Angeles last September.

The New York Bill, Senate 9472, bans
the sale of wild-caught birds in New 'York
State, and it is presently awaiting Governor
Cuomo’s signature. Captive-bred birds are
readily available and could supply the mar-
ket but cage bird dealers make a far larger
proﬁt margin from the sale of wild birds
and therefore have touted them to the pub-

8

lic as ideal pets. Not only do many of these
wild parrots and cockatoos die in transit
and in quarantine, but many die in the
totally unnatural environment of people’s
livingrooms — a stress that is too great for
many of them. Some can spread Exotic
Newcastle Disease to poultry or psittacosis
to humans, and they are much better off in

the wild where they are far less likely to suc-
cumb to disease.

Baby parrots are the saddest example of
this cruel trade — taken from their tree-
hole nests often by cutting the tree down
and killing some in the process, they are
crammed into small crates and shipped
from trader to trader, many dying along
the way, until they arrive in U.S. quaran-
tine stations or even worse they are smug-
gled into the country in car door panels,
hub caps or under seats in cars and vans.
One such shipment of 259 baby Yellow—
headed Parrots smuggled in from Mexico a
few years ago suffered a 100% mortality
from Exotic Newcastle Disease after they
were discovered by U.S. Customs Ofﬁcials.

This New York bill is a major step toward
conﬁning the trade in cagebirds to those
raised in captivity. Budgerigars, canaries,
cockatiels and Zebra ﬁnches are among
those birds raised exclusively in captivity.
Many are bred in Taiwan, South Africa
and Europe, and mortality data shows that
fewer than 5% of captive-bred birds im-
ported into the U.S. die in transit or in
quarantine. This is far lower than the
20 + % of wild birds that die between export
from their native country and release from
U.S. quarantine stations.

Some of the importers in wild birds have
even found a way to profit from the thou-
sands of birds that die in their care. They
send them to museums as “specimen

continued on page 11

 




 

 

Wolves win in Minnesota

In a splendid decision preventing trapping, shooting and selling the fur of wolves
in Minnesota, US District Court Judge Miles W. Lord voided the US Interior
Department’s August tenth regulations, which the Judge found unlawful in all
respects. Excerpts from his decision follow:

 

Two wolves

“The court has listened to the arguments
of the defendants that a sport season is
needed to enhance the value of the wolf in
the eyes of the public. In this respect, the
court is aware that some wildlife experts feel
that a sport season would reduce the level of
wolf—human conﬂict. It is argued that the
public in northern Minnesota sees the wolf
as having little value. This is said to con-
tribute to the estimated number of 250 il-
legal killings that afﬂict the wolf each year.
While these illegal killings must be stopped,
this can hardly be accomplished by allowing
a sport season and creating a market in wolf
pelts. An attempt to “manage” the wolf in
this manner is to treat the wolf as a
furbearer, and not as a threatened species
whose value is determined by its rightful

The hunters’ guns still ﬁre poison

Every year between 1.5 million and 3.8 mil-
lion waterfowl die from unintentionally
swallowing quantities of lead pellets while
foraging for food on marshland, lakeside
and river bottom. For years now en-
vironmentalists have been campaigning
against this huge and cruel “incidential
catch” by America’s sportsmen. Time and
again they have documented unambiguous
cases of lead poisoning and urged —
ﬂvailingly — that hunters turn to steel

Dlstlngu
We are pleased to announce that His
Excellency Tabarak Husain, former Bang-
ladesh Ambassador to the US and Mexico,
has agreed to serve on AWI’s International
Committee. He has had a most distin-
guished and varied career in the diplomatic
service. An economist by training, and
Specializing in international relations, he
has participated in negotiations at the high—
est level in a great many countries.
Ambassador Husain thus brings to AWI
a Wealth of international experience and
also ~ coming as he does from a develOping
n0n~aligned nation —— a valuably different
perspective on our “only one world”.
The Ambassador’s interest in animals is
Shared by his wife Uzra, and his three sons,

photo—MON!

place in nature. While some may place
value on the wolf because of its fur or simply
as a game animal, the Endangered Species
Act has given the wolf a status much more
important —— it is a protected animal that all
persons must seek to conserve. If this is not
done, the result is obvious. There will simp-
ly no longer be a wolf—human conﬂict, for
there will be no more wolves.

‘ ‘In addition to the regulations allowing a
sport season and trade in. wolf pelts, the
Secretary has sought to expand the current
livestock predation control program beyond
its present limits. The area in which the
wolves may be trapped has gone from one—
quarter mile, as previously ordered, to
within one-half mile of the farm where the
depredation occurred. More than that,
there would no longer be a requirement that
the trapper determine with reasonable cause
the identity of the predating wolf or wolves.
In addition, there would not be a require-
ment that the wolf or wolves be taken in a
humane manner. These changes in the law
are made without explanation. . . . This
court has no choice but to conclude that
these new regulations only go toward ex—
panding the unnecessary taking of wolves,
rather than being designed in accordance to
the previous rulings of this court. Accord-
ingly, these regulations concerning the pre-
dating control program are also determined
to be illegal under the Endangered Species
Act.

“Plaintiffs have urged that state and
federal governments are doing little, if
anything, to prevent the illegal killing of
wolves. The court ﬁnds it very difﬁcult to
conclude otherwise when almost one quar-
ter of the wolf population is illegally
slaughtered each year. There is no
evidence, at least in federal court, that any-
one has been prosecuted for these killings. It
is apparent that the manpower to enforce
the law is there, the quid pro quo being the
allowance of a hunting season. But the duty
imposed by Congress to increase the wolf
population does not hinge upon the ex-
istence of a sport season. Every step must be
taken to enforce the law as it stands.

‘ ‘The wolf has long been depicted in story
and song as a mysterious menace to man’s
very existence. This concept of the wolf has
become engrained in our attitudes and ap-
proach toward the wolf. As a result, we have
been driven by an ethic which would lead to
the wolf’ s extinction. But Congress has now
mandated that each person who would slay
the wolf must stay his hand. When Con-
gress took cognizance of the fact that
thousands of species of plants and animals
had disappeared in past decades, and
undertook to curb that desecration, it
declared that the wolf had a value as an in—
dividual species in danger of extinction. We
cannot depend on Canada, or Wisconsin,
or Isle Royale, to ensure the prosperity of
the wolf. The majority of the burden is ours,
and with us it must stay. An increased ‘war
on wolves’ in northern Minnesota will not
be permitted under the law.

“For these reasons, IT IS HEREBY
ORDERED that plaintiffs’ motion for sum-
mary judgment is granted.”

 

shot.

A recent case concerns the death in New
Mexico of a rare whooping crane. The
bird’s gizzard was found to contain some
200 pieces of lead shot. Conservationist
outrage, though, seems powerless to move
officialdom — in the form of Mr. Ray
Arnett, Assistant Secretary of the Interior
for Fish, Wildlife and Parks.* He argues
that lead poisoning of waterfowl is not a
“serious” problem.

ished newcomer to AWI Committee

Riaz, who is at the World Bank, and
students, jamil and Taher. We warmly
welcome him on board!

 

Ambassador Tabarak Husain

 

And so while lead shot continues to rain
down on the nation’s wetlands, and
Wildfowl in their millions continue to be
poisoned, pleas for federal action continue
to fall on deaf ears and stony ground.
*IronicaIIy the Interior Department spends
more than $500, 000 a year attempting to
save the whooping crane, a higth en-
dangered bird of which only about 100 now
remain. It is time In terior got its act together
on this issue.

Taub continued

A footnote to the 35-page Decision in-
dicates: “The Institute for Behavioral
Research (IBR) and its parent institution,
the Institute for Behavior Resources, Inc.,
participated in the PHS Board proceedings
but chose not to appeal the decision further.
However, IBR requested that the PI be
allowed to prosecute the appeal before this
Board.”

The Board concluded that NIH’s termi-
nation of the grant should be upheld “be-
cause IBR failed to materially comply with
the terms and conditions of the award when
it failed to purchase new animal cages, alter
the ventilation system, renegotiate its
animal assurance, and provide regular
supervision and veterinary care by a
veterinarian. ’ ’ 9

 

 

 




 

 

Where dolphins and people get on famously together

Monkey Mia is a remote and unspectacular stretch of Australia’s
Pacific coastline. And as they never could in a famous resort,
dolphins and people there get on famously.

   
 
 

It all began with Old Charley who
turned up about six years ago. A
young girl made ﬁrst contact by feed-
ing him regularly and he soon became
accustomed to humans. He in turn
showed his gratitude by rounding up
the bony herring at precisely 7:15 am
and nosing them towards the
ﬁshermen at the end of the jetty.
Keeping them closely packed while the
men jag-ﬁshed, he would only pick off
the injured herring that got away. If
by chance he got himself jagged, he
would come in and almost beach
himself while the hook was pulled out.
Then at 8:30 am, practically on the
dot, Old Charley would scatter the
herring in all directions and that
would be the end of bait ﬁshing for the
day. Nobody thought anything of it; it
was just the accepted thing that Old
Charley brought the bony herring in
every morning for everybody’s bait. It
is hard to think of a non-altruistic
reason why he should do this, and it is
little wonder that he became a legend.
Probably the friendliest of all the
dolphins to visit the area, Old Charley
used to swim close to shore to give rides
to kids. His open contact with man was
cut short when someone shot him.
About the time Old Charley became
a regular, the caravan park was
established and more dolphins turned
up. So did more people. Contact with
dolphins seems to transform people of

10

  

all ages into glowing children again.
They stand in knee-deep water with
ﬁsh in hand while a dolphin quietly
cruises in and gently receives the gift.
This is usually followed by an audible
squeaking that can only be interpreted
as “Thank you.”

Dolphins are not immune from acci-
dents. The owner of the caravan park,
Wilf Mason, relates how some children
came running from the beach to tell
him that one of the dolphins had a
hook in her mouth. Armed with pliers
he coaxed her into the shallows and
spent 30 seconds wriggling out a large
hook whose barbs were sunk deep in.
During all this she lay quite still. Says
Wilf: “From the moment I grabbed
hold of the hook I had the feeling she
knew exactly what I was going to do. ”
He is convinced that dolphins can
somehow pick up our thoughts and
certainly our vibes.

A sobering experience about a year
ago further emphasizes the dolphins’
trusting nature. A new dolphin arrived
and came straight into the beach
which was unusual because the colony
is very selective and invariably chases
away intruders. Emitting a sound
almost like a cry the dolphin vainly
tried to swallow ﬁsh that were offered.
No one could ﬁgure out what was
wrong. Two days later the dolphin was
found dead on the shore; a bullet had
passed through the jaw, shattering the

  

  

 

_ , Spinner dolphins

hinge. Unable to feed, there was no
way the dolphin could have survived.
The amazing thing is that after being
treated so harshly by a human it still
sought human help.

Although the dolphins obviously en—
joy the free handouts from the tourists,
it is unlikely that all their food re-
quirements are satisﬁed from this
source alone. It is more the human
contact that keeps the dolphins in the
area. They seem to delight in giving
leaping demonstrations — the more
people on the shore, the bigger the
show. If cameras are pointed at them
they stick their heads out and grin,
often four dolphins in a line.

All this without formal training.
Can they have been practising secret-

ly? Adapted from the Australian

magazine Simply Living.

Good news for dolphins

The tuna industry petitioned the U.S.
Supreme Court to review the lower court
decision upholding the Marine Mammal
Protection Act authority to put federal ob—
servers on the tuna boats. (see Animal Wel-
fare Institute Quarterly Vol. 32 no. 4) In-
dustry wants to police itself despite clear
evidence that it is incapable of doing so if a
captain decides to ﬂout the government
regulations that help prevent dolphins from
dying in the purse seines.

The Supreme Court declined to hear the
case. The lower court decision to protect the
dolphins stands.

  

Photo — HardyJOHCS




Baby turtle riddle solved

What happens to baby turtles between their headlong scamper down the beach to the sea after
hatching and their reappearance as full-grown adults either in the nets of shrimp fishermen or
—-— if luck is with them -— back on exactly the same strip of beach to lay their eggs? This was the
puzzle which Dr. Archie Carr, from the University of Florida in Gainesville and one of the
world’s foremost authorities on sea turtles, had been striving to solve ever since 1951.

But no longer. The 33-year quest is now
ended and the secret is out. From Georgia
south to Panama, go 50 or 100 miles out to
sea and you’ll ﬁnd ﬂoating rafts to seaweed
called sargassum. And on these rafts you’ll
find tiny turtles, three to six inches long,
happily fattening up on other lodgers in the
shape of crabs, shrimps and jellyﬁsh. After a
year or so of this easy riding the surviving
youngsters are now mature enough to leave
their mobile home and come in closer to
shore where they feed off the seabed.

So now we know where the baby logger-
head, hawksbill and green turtles go — at
least those born on America’s southeast
coast and the coasts of the Caribbean. And
we know they find energy for their long
swim by feeding en route on the yolk of the
eggs they hatched from, cunningly stored
undigested in the stomach for just such an
endurance trip.

But how many survive the journey —
swooped on by voracious gulls as they wad-
dle from egg to sea and snapped up by
sharks and other finny predators thereafter?
This we still do not know. Certain it is,
though, that the answer is very few — a tiny
percentage of those that started out.

Especially is this so nowadays. For added

   

Sea turtle breaks free of its egg shell

to the hazards which baby turtles have had
to learn to cope with over the millions of
years of their existence is a new one: man-
made pollutants. Along with juicy edible
fare on their seaweed rafts the young turtles
are now liable to ﬁnd oil, tar and plastic
debris. These things are not good to eat. In-
deed they are lethal. Unhappily the turtles
don’t know this until too late.

Archie Carr believes that turtle mortality
on the rafts has been growing in line with

 

    

 

reduction impinges heavily on any profits.
The small minke whales were not even con-
sidered worth the trouble of pursuing and
butchering before the huge blue whales and
fln whales had been driven to near extinc-
tlon.

Japanese whaling interests used every
means to obtain a quota of 7390 minkes.
The IWC’s Scientiﬁc Committee, however,
noting how rapidly the populations of
minkes are decreasing, recommended that
no more than 3887 be taken. The Commis-

sion, which requires a 3A majority voted 22
to 7 to allow an additional 337 to be killed
but it is unlikely that the Whalers can make
ends meet without government subsidy in
the coming season.

Japan, Russia and Norway all filed
objections to the cessation after it was
adopted in 1982 by a vote of 25 to 7. Soon
they will have to withdraw their objections
or become subject to the sanctions of US
laws: the Pelly Amendment and the
Packwood-Magnuson Amendment which
can cut ﬁsh imports from offending coun-
tries and prevent them from ﬁshing in US
waters.

 

the growth of pollutants. Which is just one
more reason why turtle populations every-
where are showing signs of collapse —— and
one more reason why we should take urgent
steps to stop polluting the oceans.

  
   

Photo — Andrew Young

 

Birds Continued

birds” even though many are mutilated by
ﬁghts with other birds in the crowded cages.
One major natural history museum curator
told AWI that he received a box of these
dead birds from a New York importer. The
birds were missing beaks, eyes, wings and
some even heads! The importer sends the
dead birds C.O.D. and then takes a tax
write-off for the donation.

Another aspect to the trade is the ship-
ment of protected species that are smuggled
out of countries banning bird exports such
as Brazil and Australia and shipped through
other countries to be sold as pets. AWI
research with quarantine forms revealed
that over 6,000 protected birds have been
imported by the US. since 1980. For
others, the trade has depleted the species in
the wild to near extinction. The Palm
Cockatoo, Hyacinth, Green-winged and
Scarlet Macaws, and Grey-checked Para—
keet are only some of the species now rare
because of the trade.

 

Animal Welfare Institute

Scientific Committee

Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D.
Bennett Derby, M.D.

F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D.
Roger Payne, Ph.D.
Samuel Peacock, M.D.
John Walsh, M.D.

Staff

Patrick Allen, Editorial Consultant

Cynthia Bank, Administrative Assistant

Diane Halverson, Research ASSOCiate
for livestock and poultry

 

International Committee

Aline S. de Aluja D.V.M. —— Mexico

T.G. Antikas, D.V.M. — Greece
Ambassador Tabarak Husain — Bangladesh
Angela King — United Kingdom

Simon Muchiru — Kenya

David Ricardo —— Canada

Godofredo Stutzin —— Chile

Ambassador Fumihiko Togo — Japan

N.E. Wernberg — Denmark

Officers

Louise Wright, Research Assistant

Lynne Hutchison, Whale Campaign Secretary
Cathy Liss, Research Associate

Elizabeth E. Cory, Publications Coordinator

Christine Stevens, President
Cynthia Wilson, Vice President
Marjorie Cooke, Secretary
Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer

Directors

John Beary, M.D.
Madeleine Bemelmans
Gerard Bertrand Ph.D.
Marjorie Cooke
Christabel Gough
David. 0. Hill

Sue Hunt

Freebom G. Jewett, Jr.
Christine Stevens
Aileen Train

Cynthia Wilson

Lynda Power, Administrative Assistant
Nell Naughton, Mail Order Secretary
Greta Nilsson, Wildlife Consultant
Adele Schoepperle, Assistant Treasurer

 

 

11

 




 

Japan and Sierra Leone in “diplomatic”

chimp deal

,.

Chimpanzee family

Japan has been a member of CITES
since 1980. And high on the Conven-
tion’s list of endangered species which
may not be traded in internationally is
the chimpanzee. Sierra Leone, though
not a member of CITES, banned ex-
ports of its native chimpanzees in 1978.

This West African country’s chimps
are thus doubly protected from ending
up in aJapanese laboratory. Or so you
might think. The facts, though, tell a
very different story.

Last year the two countries concluded
a “diplomatic deal” whereby the National
Primate Research Center in Maruyama,
Tokyo, was to receive 50 young chim-
panzees for hepatitis research. We know
from the European Economic Com-
munity’s Primate Report of April 1984 that
during last year Japan imported 31
chimps from Sierra Leone. In all likeli—
hood these 31, or the survivors amongst
them, have now been joined by a further
19 animals, so completing the despicable
deal.

Competing with the Japanese in the
race to produce an improved chimp-
tested hepatitis B vaccine is none other
than the Austrian conglomerate Immune
whose predatory designs on Sierra
Leone’s chimps were highlighted in the

ART NEWS

A

summer 1983 Quarterly. To the winner of
the race the profits could be fat—all the
fatter for using “cheap” chimpanzees
plundered from the wild.

But what is cheap to the purchaser is
hugely expensive to the species. Even for
purposes of genuine medical research,
there is no case whatever for decimating
wild stocks when captive-bred individ-
uals are readily available. This does not
mean, though, that captive-bred animals
may be heedlessly sacrificed on the altar
of medical progress. Least of all in this
case.

For it transpires that the Swiss com-
pany Biogerz has developed a synthetic
hepatitis vaccine that does not have to be
tested on chimpanzees. The president of
the company is Dr. Walter Gilbert, 1980
winner of the Nobel Prize in chemistry.
He believes that within the next 18
months his company’s product will have
rendered chimp—tested vaccines obsolete.

A peculiarly nasty aspect of all this is
that capturing a wild baby chimp invari-
ably involves killing the four, five or
even more adults that guard it. So, quite
aside from the savage cruelty of it, the
loss to the species from a live sale of 50 is
not less than 250—300.

The Animal Welfare Institute is not ordinarily thought of as an art center, but two of
the staff are proud possessors of creations by Roger Fouts’ talented chimpanzees.
There is a drawing entitled ‘ ‘Banana Bird ”and a painting called ‘ ‘Banana Flower”.
Chimps obviously prefer subjects they can later eat, a tip struggling artists might do

well to emulate.

Canadian zoo com-
missmns hunter to

capture baby gorillas

With the blessing of the Canadian gov-
ernment a professional hunter, Mony
Ananwa, has been commissioned to cap-
ture a baby male gorilla from the forests
of Cameroon, West Africa. The animal
is then booked to become a cage mate for
Zira, a young female gorilla captured
last year and a resident of Granby Zoo,
Montreal, since January.

The zoo is paying $32,000 for the pair
and intends using them to attract fee-
paying visitors and to start a lucrative
breeding colony. Attracting visitors
should be simple enough; gorillas are a
big draw. But the hoped-for breeding
colony is unlikely to materialize. The
odds are that the long months out off
from her own kind at a tender age will
have left Zira psychologically incapable
of mating in maturity. Especially when
to this trauma must be added the still
earlier trauma of her capture.

For as with chimpanzees, so with
gorillas. The capture of a baby almost
inevitably involves the killing of the
guardian adults in the troop—a scarring
experience for the captured baby and a
body blow to a species that is fighting for
survival. Not that you would guess any
of this from the 200’s newsletter, Le Perro-
quet. In its January 1984 issue, by way of
justifying the big price paid for the two
gorillas, comes this remarkably bland
statement: “The capture of these animals
is quite complicated because the parents
are intensely protective of their young.”

Quite complicated — what a multitude of
sins this innocuous term covers! The
brutal facts of the matter, though, will be
known full well both to the Granby Zoo
and to Canada’s CITES authority. That
they should be sanctioning such murder-
ous expeditions is disgraceful.

‘ ‘ Banana Flower’ ’ by ’ Tatu

Paintings can be ordered directly from Dr. Fouts at Friends of Washoe, Central Washington University, Ellenburg, WA 98926. Any
proﬁts (after paying for the bananas) support his work in language skills and primate communication. Suggested prices are $35 and

 

12

 




THE

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

QUARTERLY

 

PO. BOX 3650

WASHINGTON D.C. 20007

FALL 1984

VOL. 33 NO. 3

US Capitulates to Japan on Whales

Whale protectors sue

Abruptly abdicating the leadership posi-
tion the United States has held in the long
ﬁght to save the great whales from extinc-
tion, the US Government on November 13
bowed to Japan’s intense pressure and an-
nounced it would not impose economic sanc-
tions on Japan for sperm whaling, despite
the International Whaling Commission deci-
sion that no spem whales be killed.

The prestigious MacArthur Foundation award made to the ﬁve most brilliant thinkers it
selects each year will be presented to Dr. Roger Payne in recognition of his accomplishments in

Japanese Whalers immediately began
harpooning the endangered sperm whales
in defiance of the IWC ban.

The Packwood-Magnuson amendment to
the Fishery Conservation and Management
Act requires the US Government to certify
any country that “diminishes the effective-
ness” of the International Whaling Commis-
sion, and cut off 50% of its allocation of
ﬁsh in the US 200-mile limit. If the violation

continues for a year, the nation is banned

Roger Payne

observing whales.

cetology and environmental affairs. The award carries with it $240,000 in 1984.

from all ﬁshing in the US ‘200-mile zone.
Japan has killed sperm whales (see Green-
peace photograph) contrary to the 25 to 1
vote by IWC nations protecting sperm
whales but, instead of certifying and cutting
Japan’s ﬁsh quota, our government promised
to withhold sanctions and let Japan kill 400
sperm whales a year for two years. Scientiﬁc
ﬁndings show that because of the savage ex-
ploitation of this population of whales in the

continued on page 6

Ethical Questions
Of Whaling
by Roger Payne, PhD.

Research on whales demonstrates that
they are in possession of unusually large
brains. Although there is no general
agreement on what the function of these
brains may be, it is a principle of evolu-
tion that such a complex organ does not
develop in a species unless it confers an
advantage on the survival of that species.

Recent research on whales has demon-
strated that some species‘ have very com—
plex repertoires of sounds; that other
species make sounds that can carry over
distances of thousands of miles; that still
others sing long, complex (and, to human
ears, beautiful) songs, that these songs
are constantly changed according to laws
of form that are remarkably similar to
some laws of human musical composi-
tion, and that these laws are inherited cul-
turally or genetically. The function of the

Roger Payne, a distinguished member of the Animal Welfare Institute’s Scientiﬁc Committee
since 1976, received the Albert Schweitzer Medal in 1980. His magniﬁcent acceptance speech
appeared in the “Animal Welfare Institute Quarterly” Vol. 30, No. 1, Spring, 1981. It was he
who brought the songs of the humpback whale to public notice, and the recordings were
distributed so widely that it outstripped all previous records. His television documentary, “Mon-
sters of the Deep,” told for the ﬁrst time of the lives of the severely endangered Southern Right
whales closely observed for years in Patagonian waters by Roger and Katy Payne. In 1978, he
prepared a statement for submission to the International Whaling Commission on ethical con-

songs and the reason they change so con-
stantly are unknown, but the ability to
memorize a song lasting perhaps 25 min-
utes, and to incorporate in it all of the
complex annual changes, presumably in-
dicates something of what the whale’s
brain can do.

In at least four separate laboratories in

siderations. '
contin ued on page 6

 




 

Thirty-four charged -— federal undercover operation comes to an end

The US. Fish and Wildlife Service announced October 4 that 34 people from 9 States have been charged in

 

Montana and Colorado With violating State and Federal Wildlife laws. These actions conclude a 3-year under-
cover investigation of illegal poaching and smuggling of native and exotic Wildlife, Operation Trophy Kill.

Nearly 200 Federal and State law enforce-
ment agents participated in the arrests and
served 20 search warrants. States involved in-
clude Montana, Alaska, Arizona, Okla-
homa, Texas, Oregon, and California.

Fish and Wildlife Service agents covertly
ran a tanning and taxidermy business in C01-
orado, where they detected smuggling of
endangered wildlife skins into the United
States and illegal trade in protected species
of big game and rare birds. Further charges
involve illegal guided hunts around Yellow-
stone National Park and in Mexico. Some in—
dictments allege illicit trade to the Orient of
wildlife parts and products supposed to have
medicinal and aphrodisiacal properties.

Other charges include smuggling skins
from species protected by the Endangered
Species Act — especially the cheetah,
jaguar, ocelot, leopard, margay, and Amer-
ican crocodile — into the United States
through the mail, in containerized cargo
ships, and in hidden compartments of ve-
hicles; violations of the Lacey Act for inter-
state transportation of illegally—taken North

American wildlife, including a bighom
sheep, (the bigger the horn, the bigger the
price) mountain goats, elk, mule deer, black
bear, antelope, mountain lions, bobcat, and
lynx; Eagle Act and Migratory Bird Treaty
Act violations regarding the killing and selling
of eagles, hawks, owls, ﬂamingo, scarlet ibis,
and songbirds; and conspiracy.

The investigation found that bighorn
sheep skulls might sell on the black market
for as much as $5,000. Finished and tanned
tiger and jaguar skins can sell for $3,000-
$4,000. Bear gall bladders — prized in the
Far East for their supposed medicinal and
aphrodisiacal values — can bring $3,000 a
pound when properly ground, while other
bear parts are used in bear-paw soup, which
is considered a delicacy.

US. Attorney Robert N. Miller reporting
on Operation Trophy Kill, said that eleven
criminal complaints were ﬁled in Colorado
charging seventeen individuals from ten
states with violations of various federal stat-
utes designed to protect and preserve wild-
life . An additional seventeen individuals
were charged with similar violations arising
out of Operation Trophy Kill by the United
States Attorney in Montana.

Charges were ﬁled in the United States
District Court in Colorado against the

 

 

Important News: Norway and Denmark
have proposed reinstatement of the North
American gyrfalcon to Appendix I of the
Convention on International Trade in En—
dangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora.

 

 

 

 

 

// / ’KA’

White Phase Gyrfalcon, birds such as this bring $50, 000 or more on the international market. The

 

North American population of this coveted species should be reinstated to Appendix I of CITES.

following individuals:

Tillman Niblett, a resident of Davis, Okla-
homa, is an international hunting and ﬁsh-
ing guide. He was charged with smuggling
ocelot, margay and jaguar skins from Mexico
into the United States and with illegal trans-
portation of American crocodile skins that
had been smuggled into the United States, in
violation of the federal smuggling laws; with
illegal sales of jaguar and margay skins in
violation of the Endangered Species Act; and
with illegal sales of migratory birds, includ-
ing cardinals, barred owls, great—homed
owl, swainson’s hawk,and blue jays, in viola-
tion of the Migratory Bird Treaty Act. Mr.
Niblett faces a maximum penalty of twenty-
two years in prison and $52,000.00 in ﬁnes.

Brian Gaisford is a resident of New York,
New York, and is employed by Hemingway
African Gallery in New York, New York.
Gaisford is charged with illegal transactions
in cheetah and leopard skins, including the
unlawful sale of a cheetah skin that had been
smuggled into the United States from Africa,
in violation of the Lacey Act, the Endan-
gered Species Act, and the federal smuggling
statutes. He faces a maximum penalty of
eleven years in prison and $40,000.00 in
ﬁnes.

Steven J. Ackerman is a taxidermist resid-
ing in Pensacola, Florida. Morton J Greene
is in the construction business, and is a resi-
dent of Mt. Lebanon, Pennsylvania. They
are charged with conspiracy to defraud the
United States Fish and Wildlife Service by
selling documents concerning lawfully im-

ported leopard and tiger skins in order to
facilitate other illegal transactions in the
skins of those animals, in violation of the
federal conspiracy laws.

Ackerman is also charged with illegal sales
of endangered species of wildlife, including
Siberian tiger, Black leopard, Clouded
leopard, and jaguar, in violation of the En—
dangered Species Act, and illegal sales of
migratory birds, including red-shouldered
hawks, cattle egrets, flamingos and sandhill
cranes, in violation of the Migratory Bird
Treaty Act.

MortonJ. Greene is also charged with un-
lawfully offering for sale various endangered
species, including jaguar, Indian leopard,
Indian tiger and African leopard, in viola-
tion of the Endangered Species Act. Acker-
man faces a maximum penalty of twelve
years in prison and $74,000.00 in ﬁnes.
Greene faces a maximum penalty of six years
in prison and $30,000.00 in ﬁnes.

Jung T. Wang, President of a business
known as U-JIN Enterprises located in San
Francisco, California, is charged with illegal
purchases of bear gall bladders in interstate
commerce, in violation of the Lacey Act,
and with unlawful transportation of a
marine mammal, speciﬁcally a Polar bear
skin, in violation of the Marine Mammal
Protection Act. WANG faces a maximum
penalty of seven years in prison and
$40,000.00 in ﬁnes.

Kyune Hyong (KHH) Kim and Peter Kim
are residents of Carson, California, where

continued on next page

US. F. W. Operation Falcon (1984-)

 

 

 




 

 

they operate a business known as Pecal
Enterprises. They are both charged with il-
legal purchases of bear gall bladders in
interstate commerce, in violation of the
Lacey Act. K.H. Kim and Peter Kim face a
maximum penalty of eight years in prison
and $50,000.00 in fines.

Thomas Radoumis operates a taxidermy
shop known as Dejon’s Taxidermy in Rose-
mead, California. He is charged with selling
cheetah skins that had been smuggled into
the United States from Africa, in violation of
the Endangered Species Act and the federal
smuggling laws. He faces a maximum penal-
ty of eleven years in prison and $40,000.00 in
ﬁnes.

Steven and Connie Murray are residents of
Edinburg, Texas, where they operate a busi-
ness known as Trips Unlimited which offers
hunting and ﬁshing trips in Mexico. Michael
Maynard is a resident of McAllen, Texas,
where he operates a business known as
Odyssey Travel Service, which arranges
hunting and fishing trips in Mexico. Sergio
Nocedal is a resident of Reynosa, Mexico,

where he is employed as a Customs agent.
These individuals are charged with conspir-
acy to smuggle and the smuggling of jaguar
and ocelot skins into the United States, .in
violation of the federal smuggling and con-
spiracy laws.

Douglas Gish, a taxidermist, is a resident
of Denver, Colorado and is owner of Head’s
West Taxidermy in Denver, Colorado. War-
ren Parker is a resident tof Blue Springs,
Missouri, where he worksiin the construction
business. These individuals are charged with
the unlawful purchase of a jaguar skin which
had been smuggled into the United States
from Mexico, in violation of the federal
smuggling laws. They face a maximum
penalty of ﬁve years in prison and a
$10,000.00 ﬁne.

Philip Tumbull, a resident of Oakland,
Oregon, is charged with the unlawful sale in
interstate commerce of wildlife, including
two mountain lion hides and two Black bear
hides, in violation of the Lacey Act. Tum-
bull faces a maximum penalty of five years in
prison, a $20,000.00 ﬁne, or both.

Kurt Fox, a taxidermist who operates a

taxidermy business in Cold Springs, New
York, known as Fox Studio Taxidermy, Fox
is charged with the unlawful purchase of a
Bengal tiger skin, in violation of the Endan-
gered Species Act. He faces a maximum
penalty of one year in jail, a $20,000.00 ﬁne,
or both.

 

Black bear

North Yemen is still the chief importer of rhino horn

During the 1970s around 40% of all rhino horn entering international trade was being imported by North Yemen, and
there being crafted into handles for traditional daggers or jambiasBut with the collapse of Africa’s rhino populations, the govern-

ment bowed to international pressure and in August 1982 rhino-horn imports were banned.

The ban, though, is not working. Indeed
the 40% ﬁgure quoted above is now over
50% — although the total tonnage is down
considerably because rhinos are today so few
and far between. This latest estimate comes
from Esmond Bradley Martin, a rhino expert
who has made a particular study of the rhino
trade and who returned to North Yemen in
October 1983 to find out which countries are
now the suppliers, what prices are being paid
and how demand might be reduced.

Although jambias with rhino-horn handles
are now very expensive — average prices
range from $435 to $875 — demand still ex-
ceeds supply. The oil bonanza has pumped
money into many purses. Almost all men
have daggers and in most parts of the country
these are worn every day. By the age of 12
boys will usually possess one. After allowing
for the fact that over 90% of these youngsters
will either inherit their dagger or be contented
(for the time being) with a handle made
from the horn of cow or water buffalo, some
two tons of rhino horn are still needed every
year to satisfy this one market. This is twice
the tonnage entering the country in 1982. De-
mand from older men and from an increasing
inﬂux of western tourists compounds the
problem.

The “solution” currently being attempted
is to increase supplies. Rhino horn is ﬂown in
from Khartoum — though it may well have
originated from outside Sudan. It travels in
the personal luggage of traders who, unlike
other travelers, can pass through Customs at

The above piece is based on an article by Esmond Bradley Martin in the March-April, 1984 issue of the Kenyan magazine Swara.

Sana’a airport (Sana’a is North Yemen’s
capital) without any fear of a search. Not that
a. search would prove embarrassing. Bradley
Martin questioned several Customs ofﬁcers
and they were emphatic that rhino horn could
be legally brought in. They disclaimed all
kndwledge of a Ministerial Order which
reads: “The importation of Rhinoceros Horn
in any form is strictly forbidden.”

Clearly the first move in any serious at-'
tempt to stamp out this trafﬁc is to ensure that
Customs ofﬁcers know the law and are intent
on applying it — meaning that they inspect
the luggage of traders and their “friends”.
Secondly there should be a ban on the export
of rhino-horn shavings to Hong Kong,
Singapore and Taiwan where they are made

into quack medicines. Because 70 %4 ofia ia’w

Smuggled rhino boms

horn is wasted when carved into a dagger
handle, shavings exist in huge quantities.
Were dealers to lose this market, things
would be a lot tougher for them. Thirdly the
import duties on cow and water-buffalo horn
should probably be removed to encourage
their use for dagger handles. And perhaps,
too, the media could assist by dramatizing the
plight of the rhino and the rarity of rhino
horn. The likely effect would be to drive up
the price beyond the purse of all but a few, so
reducing demand.

But if the problem is to be solved, any
moves by North Yemen will have to be mat-
ched by far stricter controls on rhino-hom ex-
ports from, in particular, Sudan. If the rhino
is to be saved, the “Khartoum Connection”
must be broken.

 
   

W. WQFT/M. WoIf/QUICK

U.S.F.W.

 




 

FDA’s Crawford makes progress on alternatives

The Food and Drug Administration is moving towards serious concern for laboratory
animals used in testing. In a speech September 24th, Lester M. Crawford, DVM, PhD,
Director of FDA’s Center for Veterinary Medicine, told a seminar on Animal Testing:
Legal, Science and Policy Issues, “The problem was taken so seriously in the federal gov-
ernment that the Food and Drug Administration in January 1984 formed a Steering Com-
mittee on Animal Welfare issues.” He outlined the activities of the committee and reported
that it found a number of unique in Vitro methodologies under development. He also noted
that “some of the basic methods are being used in different centers for different purposes.
An exchange of information and views would strengthen the agency science base.” Dr.
Crawford emphasized that practices vary from center to center and that “agency staff mem-

bers can benefit by sharing information.”

Dr. Crawford made no mention of pend-
ing legislation. However, these ﬁndings of
the FDA Steering Committee underline the

great value which would be obtained were
the Information Service proposed by the
Dole and Brown bills, “Improved Standards
for Laboratory Animals,” in the National
Agricultural Library, in place. It is vitally
important that the animal suffering resulting
from tests which could be accomplished
without using animals, be prevented. The
waste of funds involved is a second reason for
exerting active efforts both to develop al-
ternative methods and to ensure that, when
developed, they are actually used.

Dr. Crawford gave a number of examples
of “speciﬁc instances where requirements for
animal tests have been eliminated or are
being considered for elimination as the re-
liability of alternative procedures is vali-
dated.” He stated:

“For example, cell culture systems have
been shown to be equally or more sensitive
than mice, guinea pigs and rabbits in tests
for extraneous microbial agents that may be
present in inactivated products such as
poliomyelitis and rabies vaccines and for
similar tests of live virus vaccines such as
measles, mumps, rubella and the oral polio-
virus vaccines. Appropriate changes in the
current additional standards for these bio-
logical products will be made to delete the
requirement for the use of animals in testing.

‘ ‘In addition, the use of cell cultures for
testing the presence of residual live Virus in
inactivated poliomyelitis vaccine is being
evaluated to determine if they are as reliable
as monkeys. Preliminary results indicate that
the cell culture systems may be more sensi-
tive. For medical device products, approval
has been given for industry to substitute a
variety of chemical and cell culture tests for in
Vivo tests of material toxicity and identiﬁ-
cation and for quality control.

“Pyrogen testing of drug products and
biological products is changing from using
rabbits to using the Limulus Amebocyct
Lysate (LAL) assay to determine the pres-
ence of bacterial endotoxins. Guidelines
addressing this change have been proposed,
and comments received on them are cur-
rently being reviewed. In fact, some manu-
facturers already have received approval to

substitute LAL tests for the use of rabbits.

4

Attempts are being made to develop in Vitro
methods to replace animal tests presently
used for assaying foods for protein quality
and vitamin D content.

“Immunochemical and biochemical tech-
niques aré being substituted for animals to
determine the potency and purity of some
biological products. Analytical methodology
such as spectrophotometry is used to assure
potency of meningococcal and pneumococ—
cal polysaccharide vaccines and chroma-
tography is used to determine the identity
and molecular conﬁgurations of new prod-
ucts using recombinant DNA technology.
Single radial immunodiffusion procedures
are used to determine the potency of in-
ﬂuenza vaccines and also are currently being
evaluated for determining the potency of
rabies and inactivated poliomyelitis vaccines.
The utility of enzyme-linked immunoassay
and radioimmunoassay is also being evalu-
ated as a suitable replacement for potency
testing of poliomyelitis vaccines which cur—
rently requires the use of monkeys.

“Research and development of a number
of other alternative methods is being con-
ducted or supported. Tissue culture, cell cul-
ture and subcellular cultures are being eval-
uated for the application to test for many
substances such as heparin and protamine
sulfate. Genetic probes, developed through
advances in recombinant DNA technology,
are being investigated for their application
in assessing virulence and pathogenicity of
food borne bacteria. Probes are now avail-
able for Escherichia coli, and Yersina
enterocoIitica with probes under develop-
ment for ShigeIIae, Campylobacter jejuni,
CIostridium perfringens, BaciIIus cereus,
Vibrio cholera, SalmoneIIa and CIOStridium
botuIinum. The agency is following studies
of cell culture methods using corneal epi-
thelial stromal and endothelial cell lines and
use of a protozoan species as alternatives to
the use of animals for identiﬁcation of ocular
irritants.

“For cosmetic ingredients, in Vitro tests us-
ing ocular tissue cultures and cadaver skin in
the Franz cell are now used frequently to
provide information on skin sensitization and
percutaneous absorption of cosmetic in-
gredients.

“Unscheduled DNA synthesis, mammal-
ian cell transformation, mouse lymphoma

and the Ames Salmonella Reversion tests are
being investigated for their value in provid-
ing information on food additive and con-
taminant toxicity.

“Scientists at the NCTR also use in Vitro
methods and procedures for a variety of
research purposes. These include primary
hepatocyte cultures for metabolism studies
and the Chinese hamster ovary cells and the
Ames test to determine mutagenic effects.
Microorganisms, such as bacteria, yeasts and
fungi, are being employed instead of animals
to assess the toxicity of environmentally im-
portant chemicals.”

FDA is a sizable agency. In order to im-
prove coordination in this important ﬁeld,
the Steering Committee recommended that
a series of workshops be conducted under the
Commissioner’s sponsorship on acute toxicity
studies required throughout the agency. Dr.
Crawford said: “Regulatory and research
staffs of the various centers would attend
with the objective being to assure that every-
one uses the same terms in dealing with in-
dustry. A second objective would be to in—
form staff members from each center of the
requirements in other centers.”

Pain symposium
spurs book

From the ﬁrst-ever symposium to address the
issue of animal pain — held at the 1982
meeting of the Federation of the American
Societies for Experimental Biology — has
sprung an important book, Animal Pain:
Perception and AIIeViation. The ﬁrst section
is a thorough review of the scientiﬁc basis of
pain and pain perception in animals. The se-
cond section focuses on the alleviation of
pain and contains a chapter by Lloyd E.
Davis from the College of Veterinary Medi-
cine, University of Illinois. While his contri-
bution is solidly scientiﬁc, there is one
paragraph in particular which makes his
overall philosophy -— and doubtless that of
his collaborators in this book -— splendidly
clear. It runs as follows.

“One of the psychological curiosities of
therapeutic decision-making is the withhold-
ing of analgesic drugs because the clinician is
not absolutely certain that the animal is ex—
periencing pain. Yet the same individual will
administer antibiotics without documenting
the presence of a bacterial infection. Pain
and suffering constitute the only situation in
which I believe that, if in doubt, one should
go ahead and treat.”

The American Physiological Society and
editors O.E. Reynolds and S.R. Geiger are
to be congratulated on publishing this
230-page book. It costs $39.95 and is dis-
tributed by Williams and Wilkins, 428 East
Preston Street, Baltimore, Maryland 21202.
In England they can be reached at 266 Ful-
ham Road, London SW10.

 

 




Lifeforce intends suing

The Canadian organization Lifeforce is ac-
cusing. the Heart and Stroke Foundation of
Ontario of funding cruel research on ba-
boons imprisoned for months in restraint de-
vices. Lifeforce has ﬁlm and documentation
in support of this charge and intends suing
those involved in the research at the Uni—
versity of Western Ontario.

The case, the ﬁrst of its kind in Canada,
will be brought under the Criminal Code of
Canada. It is likely to be expensive and the
organization is therefore appealing for dona-
tions. The address is: Lifeforce, Box 3117,
Main Post Ofﬁce, Vancouver, Canada, V6B
3X6.

Baboon in restraining chair after surgery covers
her eyes with her hands.

Dog ﬁghters in disguise

© Lifeforce — Peter Hamilton

The sign on the building said “Sunday services 11 a.m. ” But the Brush Arbor
Revival house in Robbinsville, North Carolina, was not quite What it seemed.

Inside the most prominent feature was a
16-by-16 foot pit. And on the last Sunday of
last October —- not for the ﬁrst time but
surely for the last time —- the pit was all
covered in blood, the blood of dogs brought
together to do sanguinary battle, urged on
by a large and brutish crowd of gamblers
and sadists.

The ﬁght was openly advertised in a
Georgia store, for word had gone round that
the local sheriff had been “bought off”.
What the ﬁght promoters had failed to
reckon with, though, was that the sheriff
was new. And out to get them.

Albert Schweitzer Summer Fellowships

 

Two Albert Schweitzer Fellowships aimed
at reducing use of animals in testing and re-
search are being offered jointly for the Sum-
mer, 1985, by the Albert Schweitzer Fellow-
ship and the Center for Advanced Training in
Cell and Molecular Biology of the Catholic
University of America, Washington, D.C.

The Fellowships are open to college juniors
and seniors, ﬁrst year graduate students and
ﬁrst year medical students. The Schweitzer
Fellows will spend 9—10 weeks, including
June and July, at the Center. Courses in
basic cell and tissue culture and in vitro tox-
icology will be offered as well as an in vitro
neurotoxicology research program. Re—
ﬁnement of skills in these areas may encour-
age further development of viable substitutes
for animals.

Applicants must submit a completed appli-
cation, a current academic transcript and an
800-1000 word essay on “Dr. Schweitzer’s
Perspectives on Animals and Biomedical Re-
search” or a “Personal View of Dr.
Schweitzer’s Philosophy of Reverence for
Animal Life.” Deadline for applications:
March 1, 1985.

The Center is waiving its $1200 tuition fee

Two dogs were ﬁghting in the pit when
the sheriff’s men sprang their trap. The
spectators tried to ﬂee but most were
caught; 90 arrests were made on the spot.
One arrested man had $100,000 in a bag
and many had several thousand dollars on
them. The would-be escapers left behind al—
cohol, drugs and weapons — ranging from
brass knuckles to guns.

Dog-ﬁghting is a misdemeanor in North
Carolina. Those convicted face $500 ﬁnes
and/or six months in jail. No great penalty
for such vicious and callous cruelty.

and the Albert Schweitzer Fellowship is
awarding a $1250 stipend for housing, travel
and other essential expenses. Low cost hous-
ing is available.

Applications and reading lists may be ob-
tained from Dr. Roland M. Nardone, Direc-
tor, Center for Advanced Training in Cell
and Molecular Biology, Catholic University
of America, Washington, D.C. 20064. Tel.
(202) 636-6161.

The selection committee will include Dr.
Nardone and Fellowship board members,
Christine Stevens, president of the Animal
Welfare Institute, and Ann Cottrell Free,
Schweitzer Medalist and author-editor of
Animals, Nature and Albert Schweitzer.

The Albert Schweitzer Fellowship is a na-
tional membership organziation, headquar-
tered at 866 United Nations Plaza, New
York, N.Y. 10017. It seeks to foster Dr.
Schweitzer’s ethic of reverence for life and to
provide support for the Albert Schweitzer
Hospital, Lambaréné, Gabon. The Center
for Advanced Training is sponsored by the
Department of Biology of Catholic Uni-
versity, where doctoral research and instruc-
tion are part of a 70 year tradition.

     
 

 

 

 

 

Top View of the chair is reminiscent
of 17th cen tury stocks.

Big ﬁnes
for dog dealers

Dog dealer Allen Avis from Monroeville,
New Jersey, has been ﬁned $3000 on 12
counts of selling dogs without a license and
twice failing to answer a formal complaint
charging him with wholesaling a cat and
about 60 dogs one year after his federal li-
cense had expired.

One of those to whom Avis had frequently
sold dogs is Rudolph Vrana, a lab animal
dealer in Millville, New Jersey. He too has
been ﬁned $3000 for transporting dogs, cats
and rabbits in overcrowded conditions, fail-
ing to provide veterinary care for sick cats
and using poorly constructed cages.

%.

Dog dealer Donald Stumbo from Lima,
New York, has been ﬁned $4000 and or-
dered to suspend business for 120 days. He
was judged guilty of giving ‘ ‘a bare minimum
of attention” to his animals. He challenged
the evidence on which this judgment was
based but a retrial found it ‘ ‘abundantly sup-

ported.’ ’
‘h.

Harold and Ethel Taylor, dog dealers from
Kansas, have been charged with raising, sell-
ing and transporting dogs wholesale without
a valid dealer’s license. APHIS has asked
that the Taylors be ﬁned $13,000 and served
with a cease-and-desist order. The couple
was warned in 1979 and again in 1980 that
they were in violation of the Animal Welfare

Act.
“b.

James and Julie Stuekerjuergen, dog dealers
from Iowa, have been charged with repeat-
edly violating the Animal Welfare Act. In
1982 the dealers shipped 76 dogs below the
minimum age of eight weeks to distant
destinations in the US and Canada. APHIS
has asked that the dealers’ license be sus-
pended for at least 90 days. It is also asking
for $500 per violation —— a total ﬁne of
$38,000 —- and a cease-and-desist order.

5

 

 

 




 

 

 

Sculpture in stone of a sperm whale by William Cafritz.

Japan con tin u ed

North Paciﬁc over the years, it cannot in-
crease its numbers for a decade or more even
if no sperm whales are killed!

The Animal Welfare Institute and eight
other groups filed a lawsuit in US District
Court seeking a judicial order nullifying any
bilateral agreement with Japan that would
allow outlaw whaling, and a court order di-
recting the Secretaries of Commerce and
State to impose mandatory sanctions against
the Japanese fishing industry as required
under the Packwood-Magnuson Amend-
ment.

Representing the conservationists in the
lawsuit is William D. Rogers, former Under
Secretary of State. His law firm, Arnold and
Porter, prepared the legal action pro bono.

Rogers stated: “The lawsuit is based on
the premise that any commitment by the
Secretary of Commerce not to certify
Japanese sperm whaling would be an
unlawful agreement not to enforce US Law.’ ’

Senator Bob Packwood (R—Oregon), co-
author of the law, says the US—Japan agree-
ment is ﬂatly illegal: “Packwood-Magnuson
is extremely clear. It is absolutely manda-
tory, not discretionary policy. It leaves no
wiggle room or gray area in which represen-
tatives of our government can negotiate with
the Japanese or any other foreign power to
take sperm whales.”

One of two sperm whale brought in by Nitto Hogei whaling ship Ryuho Maru at Wadaura Chiba, Japan on

November 11, 1984.

6

 

Capitulation by the US came after several
weeks of intense negotiations between the
two countries. Japan kept increasing the
pressure against government agencies that-
were trying to maintain American leadership
in whale conservation and the deterrent of
the Packwood-Magnuson Amendment. The
Japanese fishing industry threatened massive
retaliation against US ﬁshermen, with whom
they do heavy trade. Japan’s Ministry of
Agriculture and Fisheries reportedly threat-
ened US agricultural imports. Foreign Min-
ister Shintaro Abe coordinated a drum-beat
attack against US policy in both Washington
and Tokyo.

Working hand-in-hand with Japanese ne-
gotiators were ofﬁcials of the State Depart-
ment, specifically the Japan Desk and the
Economic Affairs bureau, who felt that the
penalties of the Packwood-Magnuson
Amendment should not be brought to bear
against Japan.

Thomas Garrett, who served as US deputy
commissioner to the IWC from 1977 through
1983 and headed the American delegation to
the IWC in 1981 when the commission
voted, by 25 to 1 (with only Japan
dissenting), to prohibit all further sperm
whaling, stated, “Any deal to allow con-
tinued sperm whaling jeopardizes the fruits
of twelve years of labor and support of mil-

photos: Wm Cafritz

lions of Americans. It would open a Pan-
dora’s Box of problems. Every whaling na-
tion, including those that have agreed to
cease whaling or have already stopped,
would demand a similar deal.

“If the US is faced down in this manner,”
Garrett points out ‘ ‘the Packwood-Magnuson
Amendment and its sister law, the Pelly
Amendment, which alone have deterred
whaling nations from defying the IWC in
recent years, would cease to be credible. The
moratorium would crumble and the IWC
would revert to impotence.”

 

 

 

Boycott

An intensively coordinated worldwide
boycott of Japan Airlines (J AL) is scheduled
to begin January 1, 1985 if Japan has not
withdrawn its objections to the ban on sperm
whaling and the moratorium and agreed to
comply with IWC decisions.

Travel agents in North America, Europe,
Australia and New Zealand will be asked not
to book passengers on JAL ﬂights and all
friends of whales urged to refrain from ﬂying
JAL until Japan honors the decisions of the
IWC. The Government of Japan owns
37.7% of JAL, the largest share holder
being the Ministry of Finance.

 

 

@ 1984 Pat Herron/Greenpeace

Roger Payne continued

the United States, there is research cur-
rently in progress on techniques for com-
municating with cetaceans. Though dif-
ferent in detail, these efforts are essen-
tially modiﬁcations of techniques pio-
neered by primatologists for teaching
American Sign, computer, and symbolic
languages to chimpanzees and gorillas.
The early emphasis in that research was
on demonstrating that some non-human
animals are capable of the same abstrac-
tions necessary to communicate via
human languages. That chimpanzees
and gorillas are capable of such abstrac-
tion is now widely accepted.

The current research with porpoises,
though it employs the same techniques,
has a different emphasis. One current di-
rection is an effort to learn more about
behavior of porpoises in the wild by
teaching a porpoise a simple language
and then asking it simple questions. Con-

continued on next page




versations are envisioned such as: ‘ ‘Before
you came here, how many ﬁsh did you eat
each day?” or “Did sharks ever attack
you?” or “Do you like it here?”. Ques-
tions of this and of greater complexity have
been asked of and answered by non-
human primates, and present indications
suggest that porpoises will do well in such
tests. If so, animal behaviorists may soon
resemble their anthropologist colleagues as
regards study techniques — interviews
with the subject may become a principal
tool of investigation in animal behavior.

We have been discussing research proj-
ects that are currently underway, not sim-
ply plans for the future. Should these
projects yield positive results (and current
indications strongly suggest they will —
and soon), it would probably seem ironic,
if not unethical, to many more people
than have hitherto been involved in ques-
tions of whale conservation, to recognize
a value for porpoises and whales only in
relation to how much they contribute to
human nutrition or in respect to their
worth as lubricants.

The problems of research with large
whales are manifest, experimentation
under controlled conditions is unknown,
and we must be content at present with
simple observations. In spite of these lim-
itations, it is already obvious that what-
ever it is cetaceans use their large brains
for, it is almost certainly not the same as
what humans do with theirs. Thus, re-
gardless of the answer, it promises to be

Major Consumer of
Endangered Species

Japan’s intransigent role in providing a
market for endangered species of wildlife
was reported by the major Tokyo newspapers
October 12th. The Asahi Shimbun said,
“Wild animals that are nearly extinct are
coming into Japan illegally. Many countries
of origin are trying to prevent the removal of
such species.”

A news story in the Nikei Shimbun head-
lined “Unusual Vote Criticizing Japan —-
Kuala Lumpur Conference of Asia and
South Paciﬁc Region on Convention on In-
ternational Trade in Endangered Species”
stated:

“Japan ratiﬁed the treaty in 1980. In order
to protect Japanese industry, the government
held that 14 species would not be covered,
including 6 whale species, 3 sea turtles, 1
crocodile, and others. Japan claimed more
exemptions than any other country. The
Japanese government has never set up laws to
enforce the treaty, simply changing the im-
port/export law a bit. There are no special
ofﬁcials at ports or airports to check illegal
imports of wild animals or plants. Although
the treaty requires export permission from
countries of origin, Japan only requires cer-
tiﬁcation of the origin of the species. These
certiﬁcates are very easy to obtain, so export

one of the most intriguing discoveries of
the future. By continuing whaling, we
threaten this mystery; we threaten the
legacy we leave for our descendants, and,
thus, we threaten our options as a species.

In the United States, we spent, during
1975, more money on seeing live marine
mammals (in zoos and aquaria, on whale-
watching tours, in television specials, and
in books and magazine articles) than the

 

 

On December eleventh,
Whale protection groups filed
tion for summary judgment, a
that the U.S./Japan b1
agreement be declared uni
and also asking for a court?
forcing Secretaries Baldrigé
Shultz to impose sanctions on J
immediately. An expedited hei
is expected in January. '

 

 

 

 

largest whaling nation made from whal-
ing. It is clear from this and from the
increasing presence of whales in the lit-
erature, art, music, sculpture, dance,
conservation efforts, news media cover-
age, and legislation of this country that
an increased awareness of the values of
whales in their live state makes the prac-
tice of whaling unacceptable to U.S. citi-
zens on ethical grounds.

   
 
 
 
  
  
  

 

to Japan is relatively easy. A world confer-
ence is held every two years, with a regional
conference in between. The regional confer-
ence was attended by 15 of the 17 Asian,
Mideast and South Paciﬁc parties. Iran and
Japan were the only countries not in atten—
dance. An ofﬁcial from the Japanese em—
bassy in Malaysia came the ﬁrst day, but did
not participate. The other countries were
very disappointed in Japan’s boycott of the
conference. If the Japanese government does
not do anything before the next CITES in
April 1985, the government will be criticized
by other countries as has happened as a
result of whaling policies. Criticism directed
toward Japan came in the form of a vote.”

The Mainichi Shimbun carried a similar
report.

Will the Japanese public demand a
change in government policy?

 

 

“Seminar on CITES
Implementation
in Asia and Oceania
Kuala Lumpur (Malaysia),
1 to 12 October 1984
Resolution

Japan

‘ ‘Noting that in the preamble to the Con-
vention it is stated that International co-op-
eration is essential for the protection of cer-
tain species of wild fauna and ﬂora against
over-exploitation through international

trade;

‘ ‘ Considering that such international co—op-
eration is the central and fundamental obli-
gation of each and every Party state;

<‘ Aware that the Government of Japan has
acknowledged its consistent failure to meet
this obligation through non-compliance with
the provisions of the Convention and Res-
olutions adopted by the Conference of the
Parties;

“ Mindful of Japan’s major role in the inter-
national trade in wildlife and wildlife
products;

“ Conscious of the complex national factors
that often make it difﬁcult for a Party to im-
plement the Convention fully;

‘1‘ NOTING, however, that such factors can-
not be considered sufﬁcient reason for a Par-
ty to fail consistently to meet its main obli-
gation under the Convention;

“ THE SEMINAR ON THE IMPLEMEN-
TATION OF CITES IN ASIA AND
OCEANIA
‘ ‘ URGES the Government of Japan to take
immediate remedial measures to ensure ef-
fective implementation of the Convention;

‘ ‘ REQUESTS the Secretariat to convey this
appeal directly to the Government of Japan
at the earliest possible opportunity; and
“ RECOMMENDS that if the Government
of Japan does not take the necessary remedi-
al measures before the ﬁfth meeting of the
Conference of the Parties, the Parties should
address the problem at that meeting with a
view to ﬁnding an immediate and effective
solution. ”

 




 

l
4
1
I
g
I
l
l
l

 

 

 

IUCN members meet in Madrid

For 10 days in November members of the International Union for Conservation of Nature
and Natural Resources (IUCN) met in Madrid, Spain. On the eve of the conference Patrick
Allen questioned IUCN’s Director General, Dr. Kenton Miller, on the Union’s overall ef-
fectiveness and philosophy. AWI is a member of IUCN and a report on the meeting will ap-

pear in the next Quarterly.

PA. IUCN is an unusual organization. Its
members, 500 and more, are, on the one
hand, governments and government agen-
cies, and, on the other hand, the NGOs, the
non-governmental bodies, some of them very
small indeed. How does it work? What do
members contribute and what do they get
out of it?

KM. One of the chief ways they contribute is
by serving on one of IUCN’s six ‘commis-
sions’. For example, lawyers develop new
treaties and conventions through the Com—
mission on Environmental Law; directors of
parks, working with the National Parks
Commission, help in setting up reserves
around the world; wildlife biologists collabo-
rate with the Species Survival Commission in
the urgent task of protecting endangered
plants and animals. And so on.

Members also participate in a political
sense. At our triennial General Assembly —
and the next one is in Madrid in just a week’s
time — they have a voice and a vote. They
judge us on past performance and help set
policies for the next three years. And of
course they support us ﬁnancially —— al-
though we still have to look outside the mem-
bership for the funding of some 75% of

our work.

 

drawings by F ougasse

PA. With its global network of members,
IUCN should be uniquely placed to learn of
environmentally destructive plots and plans
preferably before they are hatched but, fail-
ing that, at least before too much damage
has been done. But does this happen? Does
the network work?
KM. In certain areas, yes. For example, the
people who watch over the wellbeing of
species through the Species Survival Com-
mission are quick to tell us of destructive
happenings and imminent dangers. Say one
of our ‘spies’ learns of a wildlife smuggling
offence. The ﬁrst alerted, often within hours
of the event, may well be the Wildlife Moni-
toring Unit which is part of IUCN’s Conser—
vation Monitoring Centre based in Cam-
bridge, England. The facts will be promptly
relayed to the secretariats of IUCN and
CITES in Switzerland. They then act.
Local infringements, though, are more
likely to be spotted by local conservation
bodies and dealt with on the spot without
recourse to IUCN. And this is as it should be.
At the same time it is true that our member-
ship is concentrated in western developed
countries and very thin on the ground in
precisely those lands where the damage —

8

both actual and potential — is greatest.
From these areas we often learn too little and

too late. E

PA. To discover what is going on may be
hard enough. But these days it must be still
harder, with regard to a great many coun-
tries, to get governments to admit to any
problem, let alone to get them to take counter
measures. Politically, vast areas of the globe
must, in effect, be no-go areas to IUCN.

KM. Sadly this is true -— though perhaps less
so than you might suppose. We are not the
UN and therefore we are not held back from
saying our piece, forcibly if need be, and of-
fering our services. We feel we have the
authority to work wherever we are needed
and to act as a forum that links policies with
science. We can lobby; we can try to inﬂu-
ence. And we are becoming better repre-
sented in areas like Brazil, the Paciﬁc coast
of South America, eastern Africa and parts
of Asia. Also on our Board of Directors —
which we call the Council — are people from
every region of the world and every political
system, all of whom have high rank at home.

Jr‘rl’)/‘

My

PA. May I turn now to the jewel in IUCN’s
crown, the World Conservation Strategy. Is
the jewel genuine —— or paste? That is to say,
has the Strategy prompted deeds which
otherwise would not have happened? Laun-
ched some four and a half years ago, its
prime purpose was to encourage countries to
bring out their own national conservation
strategies on the principles laid down. To
what extent has this happened? And is the
Strategy still alive, still influencing conserva-
tion around the world?

KM. The World Conservation Strategy is
alive and well. Its development is at different
evolutionary stages in different parts of the
world. Some nations adapted it to their
needs soon after its launch in 1980; some did
so later. Others are still have’ring. It is only in
the last 18 months or so that development
agencies have begun to look seriously at the
Strategy. It will often take at least a year to
achieve constructive dialogue between devel-
opment planners and conservationists. And
then another year passes while action—plans
are shaped.

PA. Meanwhile the health of the planet con-
tinues to deteriorate. Reports of natural dis-
asters seem to be on the increase — the fam-
ine in Ethiopia being but the latest and most

horrendous example. Yet, and this I ﬁnd puz-
zling, professional conservationists. seem to
have been very shy of ascribing any part of
these calamities to man-made causes. In
other words they have refrained from
strengthening their case by pointing the
moral. Why?

KM. This is an issue on which it has proved
difficult to work with the big battalions, such
as the UN. Quite frankly it is politically very
awkward to accept that major disasters like
the Sahel drought are in large measure due
to misguided use of land — even though this
is confirmed by certain studies, notably by
the US National Academy of Sciences and the
League of Red Cross Societies.

We have recently been asked by the latter
to collaborate on disaster-prevention — and
prevention in these matters, as well as bring-
ing obvious humanitarian benefits, would be
so much cheaper and easier than cure. We
welcome this chance of working with aid
agencies which, with the best of intentions,
have often been the villains of the piece by
funding unwise development.

W

PA. What are your relations with the World
Bank and the other big aid bodies?

KM. IUCN has recently grown a new limb,
the Conservation for Development Centre. It
is there to try to see that development takes
conservation into account —- because only
then will development prosper — and that
aid agencies take heed of the World Conser-
vation Strategy. We now have a number of
collaborative projects with the World Bank
and with other agencies in which we are
drawn into the planning stage from the
outset. This relationship is growing. Some
months ago we had a workshop in Switzer-
land where people from the development
agencies and from IUCN came together to
learn from each other. - '

 

PA. I think some people might regard this
Conservation for Development Centre, set
up within the same building as IUCN, as a
bit of a Trojan horse. They would argue that
conservation and development are not
natural allies, that development is entirely
concerned with man’s material welfare and
conservation is not —— or at any rate
shouldn’t be.

KM. The debate on this within IUCN is in-
herent in our very composition. To some of
our members the all-important issue is pres-
ervation of species; for others the chief con—
cern is sustainable development in agricul-
ture, forestry, ﬁsheries. For still others
animal welfare is perhaps the overriding con-
sideration. Insofar as these priorities con-
ﬂict, the dominant attitude in IUCN as a
whole is that so long as the majority of the
peoples on the planet face problems of nutri-
tion, water supply, housing and debilitating
poverty, we have, in all humanity, to give

continued on next page

 

 




 

 

IUCN continued
priority to the development aspect of conser-
vation, striving to ensure that it is effective,
that it works with nature and not against.
And we must work with the people too. In
regions such as central Africa, southern Asia
and Amazonia, we can best protect genetic
resources by harnessing age-old customs to
new-found methods. And the people of these

regions may also have much to teach us.
.‘ ......

Rd»
3%

PA. Does IUCN then believe that species
should be saved only because they are poten-
tial genetic resources, or do species have a
right to life in their own right?

KM. IUCN believes very strongly that we
have to cover both ends of the spectrum. We
must stand on science, on the materialistic
aspects of human life ——- the provision of
food, medicine, ﬁrewood. But we must also
take an ethical stand, be attentive to re-
ligious beliefs and have concern for future
generations. It is a balancing act —— and the
challenge is to keep the balance. We would
like to prevent all future extinction of
species; they may one day be of use to us, but
even if not, we believe they should continue
to exist.

  
    

w _.
74/}7/y/ﬁ/ ”WW

1

  

PA. I think this brings us to the heart of the
matter because there are people inside IUCN
as well as outside who say that conservation is
a crusade or it is nothing. These people
believe that IUCN is, in effect, selling the
pass — that it has these grandiose and very
ﬁne sentiments but that its gaze is so focused
on its own machinery and trying to make it
run smoothly that it has lost its overall Vision.
KM. Now you are here touching on a point
very close to my heart. After around 15
months in this job I feel very close to my
predecessors —— endlessly battling to get the
machinery in trim so that then we can get on
with conservation. A big part of the problem
is the perpetual fund-raising we have to
undertake to ﬁnance the secretariat —
bringing in its train mountains. of paper-
work. There is no question but that this gets
in the way of the real work.

PA. But when people say that conservation
must be a crusade, what they have in mind is
that unless public fervour is really aroused,
the action will be at best piecemeal and too
slow. You agree that materialistic goals are
insufﬁcient on their own to spark the cru-
sading spirit, but do you believe that any one
ethical framework can embrace so many
creeds and cultures and such a huge dis-
parity of life styles and living standards?

KM. Probably not. But I have thought
about trying through IUCN to work with re-
ligious leaders and people versed in hu-
manist ethics from all parts of the world to
establish the extent of the common ground.

The song of the last ’o’o

 

Molokai O-O Moho bishopi Extinct c. 1904

© 1981 by London Editions/David Day

The newest state of the Union is in trouble. The natural resources of Hawaii, the tropical forests
With their amazing variety of animals (particularly birds) and plants, are fast disappearing.

A staggering 95 % of these plant species are
endemic to the islands — in a word, unique.
Yet no fewer than 800 of them are now class-
ed as endangered or threatened. The animals
too are, for the most part, endemic. And huge
numbers are endangered. Indeed many have
already been pushed to the point of no return.
They are extinct.

In other parts of the world the best way of
protecting species is to create a park around
them and forbid all human activity therein.
But on the Hawaiian islands, as on most
islands, “benign neglect” is not a policy that
will work. For it reckons without the chief
enemy, the animals and plants brought in
from outside, either intentionally or acciden-
tally, by man.

Some two centuries back the explorers
Cook and Vancouver‘ introduced cattle,
goats, sheep and pigs. All quickly multiplied
to pest proportions. Mouﬂon sheep, axis
deer, black-tailed deer and a host of other
“foreign” settlers are now also wreaking
havoc amongst the native species, unequip-
ped by evolution to deal with competition
from such introduced target animals for hunts-

men. Exotic weeds are hardly less of a
plague, strangling the native plants as they

 

My guess is we would ﬁnd that a great many
of the tenets of environmental management,
of our responsibility to future generations, of
the rights of species other than man, are held
universally. Such an exercise would, I
believe, sharpen the way we think about
these issues, these values — and sharpen too
our presentation, our propaganda if you
will, to the public at large.

PA. Christianity, of course, has often stood
accused of being the enemy of conservation,
of taking the God of Genesis with his injunc-
tion to man to “subdue the earth” too liter-
ally. But scattered through the Good Book,
so I’m told, are the essential bones of a full-
bodied conservation theology waiting to be
put together. It is high time this happened.

spread ever further despite all efforts to con-
trol them.

Most of the invaders are now too well en-
trenched to be removed. But sometimes other
factors can impede control efforts. For exam—
ple, feral sheep, goats, and pigs quite recently
acquired the semi-protected status of
‘ ‘game’ ’. This gave rise to the celebrated case
in which a bird, the palila, made history by
suing the Hawaii Department of Land and
Natural Resources — and winning! The
palila (represented by the Sierra Club) suc-
cessfully maintained that the Department was

wilfully permitting sheep to destroy its
habitat, thus violating the Endangered
Species Act.

There have been other victories too, for
conservationists have been battling long and
hard to protect Hawaii’s unique natural
treasure-house. But looking to the future, if
ﬁnal and irreversible defeat is to be averted,
then, in the words of one of conservation’s
front-line warriors, “immediate and heroic
action is required.’ ’

Once upon a time there were four or may-
be ﬁve species of a Hawaiian bird called the
’o’o. Its brilliant yellow feathers were much
prized by the makers of royal capes and hel-
mets. Extinction has long since claimed all
but one of these species. And that one now
has only one known surviving member a
lonely male who sings continuously by its old
nest site in an ’ohi’a tree. Is the song of the
last ’o’o a poignant symbol of the way things
are going in Hawaii today?

The above piece is based on a long article
On the Cutting Edge of Extinction by Steve
Yates in Audubon Magazine, July, 1984.
Readers wishing for further facts on problems
faced by island (and other) species will ﬁnd
them in AWI’s The Endangered Species
Handbook, price $5.00. The book’s primary
aim is unashamedly educational, in the belief
that effective conservation depends on well-
informed, popular support. This is particular-
ly lacking in Hawaii where the public schools
teach virtually nothing about the islands’
natural history and where the state’s Division
of Forestry and Wildlife has no public infor-
mation ofﬁcer.

9

 




 

Dr. Wood-Gush’s university lecture tour

The internationally renowned ethologist
from the Edinburgh School of Agriculture,
Professor David Wood-Gush, has just com-
pleted an intensive month-long lecture tour
of nine U.S. universities and two U.S.
Department of Agriculture research centers
under the auspices of the Animal Welfare
Institute. Dr. Wood-Gush, known especially
for his extensive research on poultry
behavior, spoke on farm animal welfare and
presented the results of his study of domestic
swine. He emphasized that, “Humane hous-
ing systems should take the animals’
behavior into account, ’ ’ and stated, ‘ ‘Most of
our domestic animals still retain much of the
behavior of their ancestral species, and when
housing and management systems do not
take this into account, problems can arise,
particularly in cases in which there is poor or

    

453':-

Dr. Alex S tolba

At the border between woodland and open grass-
land on an Edinburgh hillside sows use facial
glands to mark trees.

indifferent stockmanship. It is possible to
design systems to fit the animals’ behavior,
but ﬁrst it is necessary to study their behavior
under conditions that resemble those of their
putative ancestors, both physically and
socially.’ ’ Such studies with large white swine
carried out with Dr. Alex Stolba, a Swiss
ethologist, involved the close observation of
the hogs on an Edinburgh hillside which in-
cluded forests, marsh, grassy pastures, gorse
bushes and a stream. These observations
were used to develop a novel housing system
for hogs that enables the animals to carry out
many activities observed outdoors but in a
modest amount of space. In fact, the space
requirements of the “Pig Family Pen” are
equivalent to those of semi-conﬁnement
systems. (See Quarterly vol. 31, no. 4 for
more photos and information.)

Great interest was shown in this work by
agricultural engineers, animal scientists and
veterinarians who scheduled lectures by
Wood-Gush at their institutions. His ﬁrst
stop was Fort Worth, Texas where he spoke

10

 

s

A sow carries a
branch to help build
the communal nest
site being rearranged ‘
by two sows. The pig- - ’ /"
lets nearby will join
the nest after the sows
have settled in.

 

 

 

l
AII/ 3 )u.
H 1' ,
l “‘4“ 'l

l; .
,.>gm\\.
\\
‘I

94'wa

 

 

to the animal welfare committee of the U.S.
Animal Health Association. He then went on
to give university-sponsored lectures at Texas
A & M University, the universities of Min-
nesota and Illinois, Purdue University, Cor-
nell University at Ithaca, West Virginia State
University, Pennyslvania State University
and Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State
University. Dr. Wood-Gush also lectured at
USDA’s Meat Animal Research Center in
Clay Center, Nebraska and its Beltsville
Agricultural Research Center in Maryland.
(This lecture was jointly organized by the
University of Maryland.)

Under a grant from the British Ministry of
Agriculture the “Pig Family Pen,” has been
thoroughly researched from a scientiﬁc
standpoint. A new three-year grant will per-
mit detailed economic assessment. The pro-
ductivity and excellent physical health of the
hogs managed in this unique housing system
provides powerful evidence that managing
animals in behaviorally appropriate condi-
tions will beneﬁt farmers. Estrus is syn-
chronized among the four sows kept in each
unit, simplifying management for the
farmer, and it is exhibited while the sows are
nursing their piglets, resulting in a biological
optimum of 2.5 litters per year from each

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

l
l ; Front Gate/ :
1'“ : FAEQES—QQBBIQQB Leote
l ' : lopt )
‘ l Threshold /
ROOTING AREA
2,5m Peat/ Bark ,
Levering Bars
__ 33::
Water
Trou\gh
"j Rubbing
Post \
3m ACTIVITY AREA _CLeep Rail
Straw
j Straw Rack -E
d” Feed Gr.1t¢—e—l(-)pt_.)_/14
Stalls
25'“ NESTING AREA
Straw
.eqcqwrg_8<!|_& _ _ __
Treatment Stall l opt.)
—— K1 \/

1m REAR PASSAGEWAY

l
Schematic drawing of the Pig Family Pen .

sow. The average number of hogs sold from
each litter is 8.1, an acceptable figure but

one Dr. Wood-Gush expects to increase.

The Pig Family Pen
unit includes an area
where pigs can mimic
the rooting and lever-
ing activities they per-
form outdoors.

Dr. Alex S tolba

Dr. Alex S tolba

 

Drawn from a photograph by kind permission of Dr. A. Stolba.

 

 




 

 

Why does a crated calf need so much medicine?

Under a grant from the U.S. Department
of Agriculture’s Agricultural Research Ser-
vice, four systems for raising veal calves were
examined at Texas Agricultural and
Mechanical University. Following are ex-
tracts from the summary of the University’s
preliminary draft, published in The Vealer
April, 1984-.

Note that calves isolated in narrow stalls or
individual pens required five times the
amount of medication as the hutch and yard
calves! Many became lame, and the stress
caused by long-term chronic close conﬁne-
ment caused measurable physiological
changes.

These ﬁndings should speed change from
solitary conﬁnement to straw yards by all who
raise veal calves. Consumers should ask but-
chers how the veal calves were housed and in-
sist upon straw-yard veal.

Extract from Texas A and M

“ Dr. Ted Friend and associates at Texas

A&M University conducted a series of trials
using Holstein bull calves raised in each of
three treatments: (1) narrow stalls, (2) in-
dividual pens, (3) individual calf hutches with
yards. The physiological data obtained at six
weeks indicate that a state of chronic stress
was induced in stall and pen calves.
“ Switching the hutch calves with the stall
calves caused a reversal of adrenal function
and T3 concentration within 9 days. This
supports the hypothesis that the observed
changes in physiology were a direct result of
housing methods. There was no difference in
gain, as expected, since all calves were fed the
same amount of milk replacer. The stall and
pen calves required approximately ﬁve times
the amount of medication as the hutch and
yard calves. The stall and pen calves showed
a signiﬁcant increase in rate and amount of
movement (running, jumping, etc.) when
removed from the stalls and pens for open
ﬁeld tests.

“ Stall calves stumbled and fell more fre-

Animal Welfare Institute

Scientific Committee

Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D.
Bennett Derby, M.D.

F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D.
Roger Payne, Ph.D.
Samuel Peacock, M.D.
John Walsh, M.D.

International Committee

Aline S. de Aluja D.V.M. — Mexico

T.G. Antikas,, D.V.M. — Greece
Ambassador Tabarak Husain —— Bangladesh
Angela King — United Kingdom

Simon Muchiru — Kenya

David Ricardo —— Canada

quently than calves from other treatments.
The greater incidence of highly active
behavior in stall and pen calves, despite a
higher incidence of lameness, attests to the
strength of motivation induced by intensiﬁed
drives.

“ Stall and pen calves also engaged in more
social play (head butting, running together,
etc.) than calves from the less conﬁning treat-
ments. Hutch-and-yard calves commenced
grazing sooner, suggesting the frustrating of
one drive may inﬂuence the display of other
behaviors.

“ Results from these studies indicate calves
require some degree of exercise to prevent
lameness and chronic stress. Relationships
were indicated between increasing degree of
constraint, increasing stress and decreased
disease resistance. The results indicate that
long-term chronic close conﬁnement can have
adverse effects on the overall production of
calves by inducing physiological changes
associated with stress. The results also in-
dicate that calves have a drive for social in-
teraction and exploration as well "as for
locomotion. ’ ’

 

Book review

Nop’s Trials, a novel by Donald McCaig.

Crown Publishers,

Nop is a Border Collie who works for his
master, Lewis Burkholder, on his farm in
Virginia where he has some 800 sheep and 70

cows. Nop’s work is to control the sheep and
cows; the description of how Nop manages
the ﬂock is not only interesting but moving.
Lewis has family problems and so sometimes
takes Nop to other places for Sheepdog trails.
Unfortunately, he also has his rivals and
enemies and Nop is stolen — and even has to
bear the indignity of appearing in a circus
with a monkey riding on his back. Further
adventures remain for Nop before he is re-
united with his real master; he is even sold to
a laboratory for use in medical tests.

Donald McCaig carefully researched the
cruelty and dishonesty rife in the laboratory
animal dealer business, and his book is a
Black Beauty-like call to reform the sordid
trade in dogs by “bunchers” and their con-
freres. Nor are the consuming laboratories
that create the market left unscathed. This
is a long novel —— perhaps a little_ too long —
but I have to admit that I found it difﬁcult
to put aside, as I am sure every dog lover will
also.

-—Hugh Gough

Officers

Godofredo Stutzin — Chile
Ambassador Fumihiko Togo - Japan
N .E. Wernberg — Denmark

Staff

Patrick Allen, Editorial Consultant

Cynthia A. Bank, Executive Assistant
Elizabeth E. Cory, Publicatidns Coordinator
Jessie Despard, Administrative Assistant

Diane Halverson, Research Associate

for livestock and poultry
Lynne Hutchisonv, Whale Campaign Secretary
Cathy Liss, Research Associate

Christine Stevens, President
Cynthia Wilson, Vice President
Marjorie Cooke, Secretary
Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer

Inc.; New York: 1984. $14.95.

 

Donald McCaig with his Border Collies.

Directors

John Beary, M.D.
Madeleine Bemelmans
Gerard Bertrand Ph.D.
Marjorie Cooke
Christabel Gough
David 0. Hill

Sue Hunt

Freebom G. Jewett, Jr.
Christine Stevens
Aileen Train

Cynthia Wilson

Nell Naughton, Mail Order Secretary
Greta Nilsson, Wildlife Consultant
Adele Schoepperle, Assistant Treasurer
Louise Wright, Research Assistant

 

11

 




 

 

 

Alex eyes his large selection of toys.

In the Department of Anthropology at
Northwestern University, Dr. Irene Pepper-
berg and students are carrying out a study on
the parrot’s ability to identify objects and use
spoken words to express his wishes. Alex is
fond of toys and enjoys selecting different
colors and shapes of wood from his toy box.

Training sessions take up half of the day.
The other half is devoted to random conver-
sations. The students and Dr. Pepperberg
always respond to Alex’s questions. Alex’s
test scores average 75-80% correct. Accord-
ing to Dr. Pepperberg, “Most of his errors
are generic; he will call a green key simply
key or identify three pieces of paper as just
paper. He isn’t wrong when he uses these
labels, but we consider them errors because

Gray Parrots are extremely popular in the
pet trade because of their ability to learn to
repeat words and phrases. Dr. Pepperberg’s
research shows that these birds are extremely
intelligent, making their exploitation for the
pet trade to become toys and status symbols
all the more tragic. In the wild, Gray Parrots
live in lowland forests of central and west
Africa where they ﬂy and roost in closely knit
groups. When caught for the pet trade they
die by the thousands before the survivors
begin their lonely lives as household pets.
Over 70,000 of these birds have been im-
ported for the U.S. pet trade since 1980, and
almost 13,000 died in transit or in quaran-
tine stations. Ghana, Liberia, Mali, Zaire,
Togo, the Cameroon and Senegal are the
major exporters. Total world trade may
amount to 50,000 birds per year. Japan and
Europe also import large numbers of these
parrots.

Total U.S. imports and several of the ship-
ments with very high mortality are listed
below:

One of these shipments, the importation
in September 1982 in which 468 parrots ar-
rived dead at Kennedy Airport caused the
importer to sue the airline. Another ship-

he hasn’t given us all the information.”

Alex takes an interest in mirrors, and on
viewing himself Alex said to a student,
“What’s that? What Color?” the student
replied, “That’s gray; you’re a gray parrot.”
After this sequence was repeated on six occa-
sions, Alex said gray. After that, he used the
word correctly for gray paper, gray wood,
and other gray toys.

According to Dr. Pepperberg: “Alex’s
vocabulary consists of labels for 23 ex-
emplars: paper, wood, key, hide (rawhide
chips), peg wood (wooden Clothespin), cork,

corn, nut, rock, water, gravel, banana,
shower, pasta, scraper (metal nail ﬁle),
walnut, wheat (shredded wheat cereal),
chair, grape, back, gym, knee (pronounced
gee for reasons we do not yet understand),
and carrot. He also knows ﬁve colors —- rose
(red), green, blue, gray, and yellow; four
shapes — two-, three-, four-, and ﬁve-corner
(respectively: football, triangle, square, and
pentagon), and quantities up to ﬁve. He can
use phrases such as ‘come here,’ ‘no,’ and
‘want’ with any object label; ‘wanna go’ plus
any location label; and ‘you tickle me.’ ”

Dr. Irene Pepperberg testing the powers of communication of Alex, an African gray parrot.

ment of 500 Gray Parrots in july 1983 from
Ghana to Saudi Arabia stopped over in
Kenya where over 200 of the birds were
found to be dead or dying. The Royal So—
ciety for the Prevention of Cruelty to Ani-
mals hired a lawyer to sue Ethiopian airlines
in this case, but most instances of heavy tran-
sit mortality go unnou'ced.

Gray Parrots are being so heavily exploited
that they may become endangered. Anyone

considering buying one of these birds should
realize that he or she is contributing to this
cruel trade. For one parrot to survive to the
pet shop, several die en route. Future re-
search on Gray Parrots in their native habi-
tats can be expected to demonstrate that
they have a complex system of commun-
as scientists am discovering
among whales and wolves. They truly de-
serve to live in freedom.

ication , just

 

 

Greta Nilsson

Source: U.S. Department
of Agriculture Quarantine
forms 17-13.

Data compiled by AWI
from these forms

 

 

 




THE

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

QUARTERLY

 

PO. BOX 3650 WASHINGTON, DC. 20007

LD50

WINTER 1984

Slowly but inexorably pressure is building up against the murderous LD50 — the tOX-
icity test which in the United States alone condemns to an agonizing death some five
million animals a year to satisfy bureaucratic regulations on new products. Important-
ly some of the most prominent converts of recent times have come from the ranks of

the bureaucrats themselves.

On 9 November 1983 the Food and
Drug Administration convened a work-
shop on Acute Studies to which the
public was invited. They heard 15
representatives of government agencies
and industry discuss toxicological tests.
Nearly every speaker said that the LD50
serves little if any purpose today. Many

emphasized that their own agencies no
longer use the test at all. A few quota-
tions will show the temper of the
meeting.

Dr Morris Shore, National Center
for Devices and Radiological Health:

“LD508 are not conducted” in this

continued on page 8

VOL. 32 NO. 4

Great news
from Newjersey

In 18 months it will be illegal to sell, use,
manufacture, or even possess a steel-jaw leghold
trap in the State of New Jersey. The new law was
violently opposed by the Wildlife Legislative
Fund of America and other pro-steel—jaw-trap
lobbyists who had prevented Senate President
Carmen Orechio and Assemblyman D. Bennett
Mazur from achieving passage of the legislation
in the 1983 legislative session. The lobbyists

mounted an even more intense campaign when
Orechio and Mazur introduced their bills in the

’84 session. Assembly Speaker Alan Karcher

continued on page 10

Fraudulent Pest Control Practices Threaten Both Bats and People

by Merlin D. Tuttle

Contrary to popular belief, most bats are gentle, likeable animals that do a lot of good and no
harm. In the United States, they are the only major predators of night-ﬂying insects, such as
mosquitos. In tropical areas, single crops, valued at up to $100 million annually, depend on
bats for pollination or seed dispersal. Bats also are extremely valuable for medical research.
Nevertheless, misinformed Americans pay many millions of dollars each year for dangerous

and unnecessary chemical treatments to kill them.

Dwarf Epauletted Bat
(Micropteropus pursillus)
is one of the bat species
that play a key role in
maintaining forest diver-
sity and in regeneration of
disturbed areas in West
Africa.

photo—Merlin D. Tu ttle

Pesticide and pest control companies
create and exploit vastly exaggerated public
fear of bats to sell “remedies” that cost
from $300 to $500 each. Yet the world’s
foremost authorities on bats and public
health agree that these companies’ chemical
treatments create problems far worse than
those they are supposed to solve. When a
large bat colony becomes a nuisance in a
house, there is one simple remedy: plug bat
entry holes after their nightly or seasonal
departure. This is a safe, inexpensive and
permanent solution. In a recent court case,
a federal judge concluded that the most
serious health hazards associated with bats
were those created by unscrupulous pest
control companies!

One of the most commonly used
chemicals, Rozol, is especially dangerous.
The Rozol label notes that it can be “highly
hazardous” if inhaled or absorbed through
the skin. Exterminators are warned to pro-
tect themselves with gloves and respirators.
Yet up to 18 pounds of this deadly powder
are often blown into a single attic, where it
can easily sift directly into human living
quarters.

While the chemical mingles unrecognized
with household dust, people are poisoned.

Exposure of pregnant women may cause
continued on page 2

 




 

 

Joanna roots for roos in Italy

 

We last heard of Australian activist
Peter Millington when he was cam-
paigning in Spain, along with balloon
whale “Flo”, on behalf of whales (see
Summer 1982 Quarterly). Times have
moved on and Millington with them.
He is now in Italy with “Joanna”, a
16-foot high balloon kangaroo. To—
gether they are touring the country,
putting over the grisly facts about
Australia’s cruel slaughter of kanga—
roos.

Italy makes a most appropriate
kiunch for such a campaign: it is the

 

BATS continued

facial deformities in their babies, and tests
on animals indicate that Rozol can cause
serious injury, and even death, before
diagnostic symptoms are detected.

Poisoned homeowners, unaware of the
danger, are unlikely to be correctly diag-
nosed. Nevertheless, we already know of a
chronically injured 3-year-old Minnesota
child who was poisoned in her bedroom.
The attic above had been treated with Rozol
despite the fact that no bats lived there! Her
parents had become needlessly frightened
when a single bat apparently entered
through an open window, and a dishonest
company exploited their fear.

In June 1980 an Environmental Protec-
tion Agency memo urged that all use of
Rozol Tracking Powder for bat control be
cancelled. Nevertheless by 1982 20 states
(Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware,
Georgia, Kentucky, Maine, Maryland,
Massachusetts, Michigan, Montana,
Nebraska, New Mexico, North Dakota,
Ohio, Pennsylvania, South Carolina,
Texas, Vermont, West Virginia and
Wyoming) had begun to permit Rozol use
against bats. Without widespread public
outcry, well funded pesticide and pest con-
trol company lobbyists will continue to
lengthen this list. In the meantime, human
health and the survival of highly beneficial
bats are seriously threatened.

Even in Third World countries, where
people do not traditionally fear bats, our ex-
ported fears are increasingly responsible for
purchase of massive bat eradication pro-
grams. Tens of thousands of caves and
other bat roosts are poisoned, dynamited or
otherwise permanently destroyed,
sometimes including all known sites in an
entire country! Millions of invaluable bats
have been killed in single acts, and many of
the world’s largest populations have been
destroyed. Some species are already extinct,
and many more may become extinct if peo-
ple and their governments are not soon

biggest importer of kangaroo skins in
the world. Not far behind come other
countries of western Europe — notably
West Germany which also imports a
huge tonnage of kangaroo meat. Indeed
in the last two or three years western
Europe has taken over from Taiwan
and Japan as the principal roo-meat
market.

During the course of his crusade
Millington plans to visit several other
west European nations. Joanna will of
course be with him all the way. Good
luck to them both!

alerted to the value of bats and to the
dangers posed by counterproductive
schemes to kill them.

For information on how you can help,
write to Bat Conservation International, c/o
Milwaukee Public Museum, Milwaukee,
WI 53233. BCI will provide information
packets for those who wish to help ban
senseless chemical warfare against bats.
Loss of rain forests is one of the most serious
environmental problems of the 1980’s. Ma-
jor conservation strategies are being plann-
ed. Yet few, if any, decision makers unders-
tand the extent to which these forests de-
pend on bats for their survival.

In tropical ecosystems, bats often com-
prise more than half of all mammal species,
and their biomass may in some places equal
that of all other mammals combined. They
are the most important seed dispersing
animals and also the primary pollinators of
numerous tropical plants.

Recent studies demonstrate that seed dis-
persal activities of bats can be critical to
reforestation of clear-cut areas, and that
many of the tropics’ most economically im-
portant plants depend on bats for
propagation.

Despite the obvious value of bats, tens of
thousands of bat caves and other roosts have
been poisoned, blown up or bulldozed shut,
killing millions of beneﬁcial bats and
destroying entire cave ecosystems.

Throughout much of the Old World and
the South Paciﬁc Islands, bats are con-
sidered a delicacy and are overharvested for
human food, folk medicine and even
aphrodisiacs. Many populations of large ﬂy-
1ng fox bats are seriously threatened. On
Guam, bat dinners may sell for $25 a plate,
and 1n West Africa bats are so valuable that
two poachers working together can make
$1000 in a single day.

- In.many cases the most important ques-
tlon 1S not extinction, but how many bats
can we afford to lose before their pollination
and seed dispersal activities become in-

  

photo—Petcr M illin gran

Italian Minister of the Environment accepts
a petition on behalf of Australia ’s
Kangaroos from Joanna’s joey.

adequate to preserve the balance of rain
forest ecosystems?

Judges Cave near Marianna, Florida,
contains one of the five largest nursery col-
onies of bats in eastern North America.
With help from BCI and the Florida Game
and Fresh Water Fish Commission, the
Florida Nature Conservancy has purchased
this critical site. Arrangements for protec-
tion will soon be complete.

In Wisconsin up to 95% of all hiber-
nating bats live in abandoned mines, and
some of these mine populations are among
the largest known in North America. Yet re-
cent legislation nearly forced closure of all
Wisconsin mines without consideration of
the consequences for bats.

The problem of mine closure was high-
lighted in March 1983 when Dr. Robert
Stebbings heard about a large-scale shaft
capping operation in West Cornwall,
England. A survey of remaining shafts
revealed that several had recently been used
by at least one colony of the endangered
Greater Horseshoe Bat (Rhinolophus fer-
rumequinum). Measurement of guano piles
and eyewitness reports by locals suggested a
colony in excess of 1000 bats, making it thC
largest colony known in Britain. Hopefully,
this colony is not already entombed in a cap-
ped mine. Surveys of the remaining uncap-
ped mines in West Cornwall are now in
progress.

In Canada the Renfrew Mine shelters
one of that country’s largest populations of
hibernating bats. However, its bats were
nearly lost through a recent mine closing.
As a result of Dr. Brock Fenton’s involve-
ment the mine is now being protected by a
combination of gates and a fence at a cost of
$7000. The original plan would have
eliminated the bat population and would
have cost $32,000.

Merlin Tuttle, author of the above articlf, 15
chairman of I U CN ’5 Chiroptera Specialist
Group and founder of Bat Conservation
International.

 

 

 




  

photo—Better M 111111 gran

 

 

 

Rawlinson Wins

Peter Rawlinson, who wrote on the
kangaroo slaughter in the Summer 1983
Quarterly, stood for election to the
prestigious Australian Conservation Foun-
dation Council, the country’s chief conser-
vation group. There were 64 candidates
from different parts of Australia. Rawlinson
drew the largest vote of any of them and he
ran solely on a platform of abolishing the
kangaroo industry.

His qualifications and interests were cir—

culated with the ballot. They read as
follows:
Senior Lecturer in Zoology, Latrobe University.
Actively involved in a broad range of conservation
issues (forest management, heavy metal pollu-
tion, pesticide usage) since 1967. Present major
concern wildlife conservation, especially the com-
mercial slaughter of kangaroos. The kangaroo in-
dustry represents the world’s largest commercial
wildlife kill, yet no Australian Parliamentary Act
(State or Federal) has specific provisions for the
establishment or maintenance of such an in-
dustry. The industry therefore has no legal or
democratic mandate. I am asking for a mandate
from ACF members to oppose the principle of
commercialization of wildlife and to take action to
stop the kangaroo industry.

 

A rescued orphan joey takes solace in a
makeshift pouch. Very few are as fortunate
as he once their mothers are killed.

UPDATE:

The Australian Government will per-
mit almost two million kangaroos and

 

 

Bringing back the birds
to St. Francis’s Assisi

1982 marked the 800th birthday of Saint Francis of Assisi, patron saint of ecologists.
So, that summer, a San Francisco conservationist, Bert Schwarzchild, travelled to
Assisi to celebrate and to climb Mount Subasio above the city in search of the birds,
the “little sisters, ” to which Saint Francis had preached.

At ﬁrst all went well. As he relates in
Audubon magazine (March 1983): “Trees,
shrubs and wildﬂowers lined the way.
What an ideal landscape for birds and the
other humble creatures Saint Francis
loved, I thought.” But Schwarzchild was

 

Saint Francis and the birds by Giotto.

reckoning without the fact that this was
September in Italy, that the hunting season
was therefore in full swing and that Italian
hunters slay some 200 million birds, mostly
migrating songbirds, every year despite
new laws forbidding this time-honored car-

nage.
As he climbed he noticed more and more
spent cartridges —— and a total absence of

birds. “Suddenly the enormity of it struck
me. Could it be that here on Saint Francis’s
own mountain, all the birds had been
hunted out? His beloved birds? How could
such a disaster have been allowed? I was
shocked and traged by this desecration.”

Shock and outrage, though, brought
forth productive fruit. Standing before the
Giotto fresco of Saint Francis preaching to
the birds in the Basilica di San Francesco,
Schwarzchild determined to bring back the
birds to Mount Subasio. The mountain
should become a nature reserve.

An international campaign was
launched. Primed by Schwarzchild now
back in San Francisco and Marisa Cohen, a
conservationist who lives in Switzerland
and who had persuaded the Californian to
visit Assisi, bird lovers from Europe and
America, prominent journalists, church-
men and politicians came together in Assisi
just one year after the event which had
started it all, that doleful climb up the
birdless mountain.

The date, 17 September, was chosen to
coincide with the opening of another bird-
killing season. But the message which went
out from Assisi that day was very different.
Speaker after speaker, including Italy’s
Minister for the Environment, Alfredo Bi—
ondi, pledged support for the Mount Suba-
sio Declaration which calls for the estab—
lishment of a nature reserve and the inclu-
sion of the area on the UN World Cultural
Heritage List.

In the afternoon a procession led by the
Environment Minister and the Mayor of
Assisi went up the mountain from where,
in a moving ceremony filmed by Italian
television, the General Secretary of the
Italian League for the Protection of Birds
released several birds of prey.

In the evening the famous Paul Winter
Trio from the US gave a concert. The call
of wolves, whales and birds, blending with
human voices and live instruments, rever-
berated around the beautiful and ancient
cathedral of Santa Maria degli Angeli.
Saint Francis, it seemed, after many cen—
turies’ absence, was back home.

 

 

wallabies to be killed in 1984, according
to The Sydney Morning Herald, 16
February.

Last year’s quota was over three mil-
lion but the kangaroo hunters failed to
fill it — an ominous sign for the kanga-
roos, since commercial wildlife indus-
tries generally kill as many of the target

animals as they can find. This year’s
quota is roughly the same as last year’s
legal kill. Though known to be large,
the amount of illegal poaching can only
be guessed at. Some estimates are as
high as a million, not counting the joeys
left to starve when their mothers are
shot.

 




 

Commercialism at the University of California

The University of California at Berkeley has been violating the Animal Welfare Act
and National Institutes of Health Guidelines with impunity for several years; its
tolerance of gross abuses is so great that its own campus veterinarian has twice refused
to sign the US Department of Agriculture inspection reports under the Animal
Welfare Act because he is unable to get compliance.

In August, the University sent
“Background Information” on the
issue to members of its Committee on
Educational Policy telling them “All
University of California animal
facilities are inspected regularly by the
United States Department of Agricul-
ture, the National Institutes of Health,
by internal bodies (campus animal wel-
fare committees and the campus
veterinarian), and by the American
Association for Accreditation of
Laboratory Animal Care (AAALAC).
These systems of inspection are design—
ed to point out any deﬁciencies in the
animal care facilities and to assist the
campuses in achieving high standards
of animal care. Campuses strive to cor-
rect deficiencies in a timely way. ”

It is difficult to grasp what the word
“timely” means in this context since
USDA inspectors have been reporting
massive abuses in the care of the
animals for the past four years.

If the Committee on Educational
Policy is interested in learning why
things have gone so badly for laboratory
animals at this big institution, quota-
tions from “Task Force Report-Animal
Facilities” prepared as part of the
Berkeley Campus Space Plan are rele-
vant: The Task Force describes USDA
reports and recommendations on the
different animal facilities and concludes
“. . . the most signiﬁcant revelation is

that most of these deficiencies are caus-
ed not by inadequate funding or space
but rather by negligent animal husban-
dry, such as inadequately sized cages,
missing or misplaced feeders, or insect
infestation. ’ ’

Discussing the 1982 report of the
American Association for Accreditation
of Laboratory Animal Care the Task
Force notes that it “cited nine problem
areas to be corrected in order for the
campus to gain full accreditation only
one of the nine involved facilities, and
the other eight could be solved by
changing policies and procedures . . .”

And, ﬁnally: “The immediate prob-
lems are then to be resolved by better
maintenance, more staff support, and
tightening up of standards, i.e., more
discipline. ”

However, defense of the status quo
seems to be more to the taste of the
University. Touting the Boston-based
Foundation for Biomedical Research
the University states that it “supports
the Foundation and is a member of the
newly formed California Association for
Biomedical Research which was
organized exclusively for educational
purposes . . .” Not mentioned is the
parent organization, the Association for
Biomedical Research, a trade organiza-
tion started by the world’s largest sup—
plier of laboratory animals, Charles
River, headquartered in Wilmington,

Excerpts from the complaint of Dr. Brenda Kahan
before US District Court

Plaintiff seeks recovery of compensatory, consequential and punitive damages for defendant’s
failure to provide, as promised, genetically pure mice for use in cancer research. Plaintiff seeks
recovery under theories of breach of contract, breach of warranty, fraudulent misrepresenta-

tion and negligent misrepresentation.

As a direct result of her use of Charles
River’s genetically defective mice, Kahan’s
useful research life was shortened by at least
16 months, and she has suffered and will
suffer lessened opportunities to attract and
receive promotions, research support and
peer recognltlon.

The value of Kahan’s lost research time is
not less than $50,000. The value of Kahan’s
lessened career opportunities is not less than
$50,000.

Kahan relied on the false representations
and acted upon them to her pecuniary and
professional damage. On information and
belief, prior to and during the period it was
shipping its mice to Kahan’s employer,

Charles River was informed by persons
other than Kahan that some or all of
Charles River’s BALB/c mice were
defective.

. Charles River deliberately did not notify
1ts customers or researchers using the
BALB/c mice that the mice were or might
have been defective. Charles River reckless—
ly failed to notify Kahan or anyone at the
University of Wisconsin-Madison about the
defects in its mice.

Kahan demands the following relief: a)
Compensatory and consequential damages
of not less than $100,000; b) Punitive
damages of not less than $100,000.

Massachusetts with branches in Ger-
many, Japan, Britain, France and Italy
from whence it conducts ever-growing
multimillion dollar business in the most
frequently used animals from mice to
monkeys. Of such cloth is “education”
made by the University of California at
Berkeley. Will the members of the
University’s Committee on Educational
Policy educate themselves on the
serious questions of when, why and
how laboratory animals are used. Or
will they take the easy way, requiring
no mental exertion, no ethical wrestling
with the facts? Will they simply
reiterate their allegiance to animal ex-
perimentation? Will they cast their fate
with the commercial laboratory animal
dealers and breeders, accepting the
leadership of the most assiduous pro-
moters of maximum use of these
animals?

Animal abuses
at Berkeley

The California-based Fund for Animals has
charged University of California researchers
at Berkeley with “using diseased animals in
dirty overcrowded conditions.” In a damn-
ing 52-page report the Fund extensively
documents abuses of laboratory animals,
citing internal memos as well as statements
by inspectors from the federal Department
of Agriculture.

One USDA inspector reported:
“Monkeys . . . are fed by placing feed in
waste pans under ﬂoor grills . . . in many
rooms (there is) a build-up of feces and bed-
ding in cages, on racks . . on ﬂoors, in
corners.”

Berkeley’s veterinarians have not been
happy with the situation. The Fund’s report
quotes veterinarian Bruce Feldman as say-
ing he resigned in 1980 after six years
because “I was forced to the reluctant con-
clusion that no amount of my advice, cajol-
ing or pressure was going to effect any fun-
damental change . . . the critical problem
was irresponsible care.”

The Fund’s report also says: “For every
grant a researcher receives, the campus
receives money for supplying facilities. ThlS
sytem provides the university with millionS
of dollars annually.”

The Educational Policy Committee of the
University of California appeared uncon-
cerned by the report and by the pleas of
Fund for Animals spokesman, Michael
Giannelli. Chairwoman Vilma Martlnez
referred the document without comment to
Berkeley administrators.




 

Swiss Academies

take ethical stand

“No person may Without justification inﬂict pain, suffering or injury
upon an animal, or cause it fear. ” This extract from the Swiss Animal Protec-
tion Act precedes the new guidelines formulated jointly by the Swiss Academy of
Medical Sciences and the Swiss Academy of Sciences. In effect the statement serves
both as a launching pad for these guidelines (Ethical Principles and Guidelines for
Scientific Experiments on Animals) and as a pronouncement in need of elaboration

and tighter deﬁnition.

In particular, what precisely is meant
by “without justiﬁcation”? In answer
to this question the Commissiqn (whose
advisers were mainly professors, in-
cluding theologians, veterinarians and
a member of the Swiss Animal Protec-
tion League) declares:

I Experiments on animals are not
legitimate if sufﬁciently conclusive
alternative methods exist of acquiring
the knowledge sought. Experiments
which have already been competently
performed may not be repeated without
adequate grounds.

I The ethical principle of reverence
for life demands that the greatest possi-
ble gain in knowledge should be achiev-
ed at the cost of the fewest possible ex-
periments on animals and the least
possible suffering.

I If pain, suffering or fear are in-
evitable accompaniments of an experi-
ment, all possible measures must be
taken to limit their duration and inten—
sity. The animal must be able to give
expression to its sensations and,
whenever possible, able to avoid painful
stimuli. For this reason the use of
paralysant substances without narcosis
is forbidden.

I Experiments apt to cause severe

Violations of the Animal Welfare Act- _ _ _ _

Stolen dogs recovered
from research centers

A man from Dexter, Minnesota, was ar-
rested in January for stealing 13 dogs and
selling them to a federal dealer who then -—
not knowing they were stolen -— sold them
to research centers in the state. All of the
thirteen dogs were recovered from
the Mayo Clinic’s Research Center in R0-
chester which uses 2000 dogs a year.
Dealers receive about $25 per dog from
research centers and pay out about $12 each
to “owners”. Ofﬁcials from the research in-
stitutions concerned in this case said their
methods of identiﬁcation, the time they hold
the animals (from several days to a month)
prior to experiments and the slender

suffering must be avoided by modifying
the hypothesis to be tested . . . or by
foregoing the anticipated gain of
knowledge. Severe suffering is to be
construed as any state which in man would
be unbearable without palliative measures.

 

-—Responsibilities

I The scientiﬁc, moral and legal
responsibility for the legitimation, plann—
ing and performance of experiments on
animals is borne by the scientist-in-
charge. All other participants share the
moral responsibility: they must therefore
have complete freedom to voice their opi-
nions and, if need be, to refuse their
cooperation.

I It is the duty of all scientists to take
and to support all conceivable measures
towards the restriction of experiments on
animals, in particular through the
development of alternative methods and
the constant improvement of test
systems. It is their further duty to con-
tribute towards the avoidance of un—
necessary experiments by promoting the
development of information systems and
data banks.

In conclusion the two Academies
deem it a “permanent duty” to review
both the Guidelines and relevant legal
provisions and also “to foster among the
general public a more critical attitude.”

 

 

 

rewards of “dognapping” should stop it
becoming a trend.

But a trend is what it already is! Indeed in
many areas the “trend” has reached epi-
demic proportions. Could it be that the re-
search institutions, which use huge mem-
bers of dogs, prefer to be blind to what is go-
ing on?

Violations in Connecticut

The University of Connecticut at Storrs has
been charged with 19 violations of the Animal
Welfare Act. In two inspections during Feb-
ruary 1983 several animal facilities were
found to be unsanitary and structurally un-
sound, and the pest-control program and

 

 

 

This horseshoe‘
crab is our good luck

On the western shores of the Atlantic
anywhere between Nova Scotia and
Mexico and in coastal waters of Asia from
Japan to India lives a horseshoe crab. His
name is Limulus. For millions upon
millions of years Limulus had lain
obscurely, even idly, on the seabed doing
nothing very much — just waiting,
waiting for his hour to come and his
worth to be recognized.

That long wait is now over. Limulus is
up and doing. He may not be hitting the
headlines but he is making a bit of a name
for himself and winning a lot of new
friends. He has become a blood donor in
the cause of safer drugs, and we — plus a
very large number of rabbits —— owe him
our thanks.

It came about as follows. In the fine city
of Baltimore is a fine organization: The
Johns Hopkins Center for Alternatives to
Animal Testing. Investigators there
discovered a singular curiosity about
Limulus: bacteria caused massive clotting
in the animal’s bloodstream.

This finding was of enormous
significance.” For drugs that are to be in—
travenously’injected into humans must be
scrupulously clean. At that time the re-
quired pre-testing for bacterial endotoxin
was invariably done on rabbits, a
minimum of three per test. The tests were
cumbersome and results not wholly
reliable. Also the rabbits often had to be
destroyed because of the nature of the
drug being tested.

Limulus has solved these problems —
and at no great inconvenience to himself.
Scooped off the ocean ﬂoor he is bled
and then released again, coming to no
harm in “the process. And the screening
for endotoxin on his extracted blood cells
yields results that are far more cheaply
gained and vastly more sensitive than
tests on live rabbits.

This in vitro screening has won govern-
ment approval and is now being widely
practiced throughout the United States.
In the words of the current Johns
Hopkins newsletter, “We can look for-
ward to safer drugs with less expense and
less discomfort for the rabbits.” Thank
you, Limulus. And thank goodness we
had not made you extinct before finding

kout your value to us! J

drainage inadequate. Laboratory cats were
being kept in a poorly ventilated area and rab-
bits were overcrowded. Excreta was not
regularly removed and animals drank from
dirty receptacles. In addition APHIS inspec-
tors were denied access to one of the wolf com-
pounds. A $10,000 ﬁne and a cease-and-desist
order have been requested.

 

 

 

 




 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 

Exerpts from:
MARTITA GOSHEN: THE LADY OF THE DANCE
Evoking the animals’ dance of life

1976, with nine dancers in a company in
Bethesda, Maryland, and I knew the night I
premiered it that I’d found my home.”

Goshen’s work has won her the respect of
many colleagues in the environmental
movement. Jacques Cousteau called her
whale dance “more eloquent than any
speech and as graceful as the ﬂuid dance of
the true whale.”

In addition to performing, Goshen has
worked extensively with schoolchildren,
directing workshops and training teachers as
well as children in the use of dance as a tool
to promote understanding of environmental
issues.

“I think her work is important,” says
Christine Stevens, president of the Animal
Welfare Institute, in Washington, D.C.

“We need to have young people learn
about the importance of maintaining these
creatures, many of which are in consider—
able danger of extinction,” adds Stevens.
“Something like this encourages them to
have the right kind of feeling toward other
living things, whether they be animals or
people. Martita’s work is unique.”

The daughter of an American diplomat
who specialized in Latin American affairs,
she was born in Uruguay, but the family
moved often. “I grew up in the hot steam—

by Leslie Bennetts

As the haunting eerie music begins, she
glides onstage into the light. Small and
blonde and sinewy, she wears only ﬁlmy
veils that ﬂoat behind her, evanescent as
whale spume.

The music is the songs of humpback
whales, and the dance is Whale Song. At
ﬁrst the dancer rolls and slides, smooth and
steady as a whale slicing through the water.
But suddenly the enemy appears, and the
peace of nature is shattered as the gentle
creature becomes a quarry. Increasingly
frantic, she ﬂees her pursuers, but they are
relentless and the harpoon ﬁnds its mark.
Flopping and gasping in her death throes,
the great whale ﬁnally subsides, sinking
with violent convulsions into the stillness of
death.

Conceived and choreographed seven
years ago by Martita Goshen, Whale Song
has been performed all over the world: on
the White House lawn and in the emperor’s
garden in Tokyo, in a cow pasture in Maine
and in London’s Trafalgar Square, in
schools from New York to Copenhagen.

Whales are not Goshen’s only concern.
‘ ‘Whale Song’ ’ was her ﬁrst work involving
animals — chosen because whales represent
to her an international symbol of man’s
disrespect for nature and the suffering caus—
ed by his depredations —— but it has since
been joined by other dances: about sea
turtles, about seals, about wolves, and, in
her latest work in progress, about dogs.

Martita Goshen is an anomaly. Strad—
dling the world of dance and that of animal
protection and environmental conservation,
she has created a unique niche for herself in
expressing both concerns. Her work in
behalf of endangered species began with her
ﬁrst exposure to whales, an experience so
overwhelming it amounted to an epiphany.

On a visit to California while on vacation
from the Charles Weidman Company (with
which she was dancing), Goshen took a Na-
tional Geographic-sponsored boat trip in
San Diego Bay. There she saw a gray whale
— and the whale saw her. “She turned and
her eye looked at me, and at that point my
life became absolutely different,’ ’ says Mar-
tita softly, “because in that eye was the wis-

photo— Tom Cara vaglia

   

 

photo—Mary 3100111

  

Through dance performances and workshops, Martita brings home to schoolchildren the plight 0f
animals.

 

dom of the world. Something drew me right
to the pupil, and it brought a sense of utter
calmness to my life which before then did
not exist. In that eye I saw fear, curiosity,
and acceptance. That such a huge creature
could be so gentle and so obviously in-
telligent! I felt my life take on new im-
portance. Within a few days, I heard a
recording of the songs of humpback whales
and I thought, ‘Why don’t I do a ballet
about whales?’ The ﬁrst time I did it was in

ing jungles of Brazil, Paraguay, Colombia,
Argentina, and Venezuela,” she reports.
Her own life was comfortable, but she was
shocked by its contrast with the suffering she
saw: “As a child, the hardest thing to un-
derstand is how you can go to school in a
limousine and see such dire poverty around
you.”

A serious skiing accident when she was a
teenager forced her to drop not only dance
but virtually all other strenuous physical ac-

tivity. She underwent surgery and received
a plastic knee joint, but the damage was ex-
tensive. “It took me years to learn how to
walk again,” Goshen says. “The accident
was in 1962, and it was 1971 before I had
ﬂuid use of my leg again.”

Goshen spent her adolescent years in Eu-
rope, ﬁrst in Lisbon, then at a ﬁnishing
school in Lausanne, Switzerland, which she
hated. “My family thought it would be a
great treat and I’d have a lark, but I was ap-




 

  
   

photo —Mary B100”;

palled by the frivolity of it. It seemed unreal
to me. I had this burning desire to fix, to
make the world better — to contribute
somehow.”

After graduating from Elmira College, in
upstate New York, and earning a master’s
degree in political science at West Virginia
University, Goshen worked as a volunteer

doing research on the aging and on poVel'tY
in Appalachia for Robert F. Kennedy and
Martin Luther King. She was shattered by
their deaths and began to reassess her goals.

As an artist Goshen is inspired by all
kinds of stimuli. Just as the eye of a whale
prompted her commitment to that species,
When she heard a composition called Wolf
Eyes, by jazz saxphonist Paul Winter, she
was deeply moved. Upon learning that
wolves are sometimes run down and cor-

photo—James Ferry

photo- Tom Caravaglia

 

Not interested in performing literal imitations
of animals in her dances, Martita strives to evoke
the spirits of the whale, sea turtle and wolf.

nered by hunters in helicopters, she was
aghast, and created a dance about wolves.
She choreographed a sea turtle dance at the
request of Christine Stevens, despite con-
siderable difficulties posed by the sea tur-
tle’s shape and style of motion. “I took
some poetic license,” Goshen admits. “Af-
ter all, you can’t just go lumbering around
the stage like a jer .”

A couture assistant to Christian Dior saw
Goshen perform her seal dance in Paris and
offered his services to benefit the cause. The
result was a costume with extravagant
lavender and green rufﬂes, which helped
put Goshen in the mood to communicate the
essence of sea turtle. “I don’t want to im-
itate these animals,” she explains. “I want
to evoke their spirit in the public’s mind.”

Her dog dances were inspired by a grow-
ing involvement with a pack of feral dogs
living on her street. Although they were a
neighborhood nuisance, nobody did any—
thing about them. “The dogs looked terri-
ble,” Goshen says. ‘ ‘They were mangy and
suffering, and I ﬁnally said, “I can’t take
this anymore. ” She began to stay up late
at night and listen to what was going on in
the street when the dogs came out to
scavenge. Then she started putting out
food, and gradually each dog permitted her
to approach and ﬁnally to feed it. The entire
campaign was conducted with extreme cau—
tion, since feral dogs can be dangerous.

She now has a whole system worked out.
‘ ‘I get the dog cleaned up and bring it to my
ballet teacher, who tries to place it through
her students,” Goshen says. If no one will
take the dog, Martita takes it to the ASPCA
-- unless she herself has succumbed to its
forlorn soulful eyes.

Since embarking on her career as a dog
owner, Goshen has choreographed two of
three planned dog dances: a trio involving
a Springer Spaniel, a Russian Wolﬂiound,
and a Great Dane; and a humorous poi-
gnant piece about a stray dog. She is devel-

photo—James Ferry

oping a duet about a stray and “a very leg-
gy elegant Weimaraner.” All the dances
make delightfully clear each breed’s per-
sonality and characteristic style of motion,
and Goshen’s stray — scrappy, tough, and
vulnerable —— is a surefire crowd pleaser.

Though she choreographs most of the
dances she performs, Goshen asked anoth-
er choreographer, David Anderson, to
create a work for her about seals, an elegy
for a mother seal whose baby has just been
killed. She has performed that work in a
number of places, including a Greenpeace
benefit in Paris.

Her other travels have been under the
auspices of a variety of organizations. Dur-
ing the Carter administration, she danced
on the White House lawn at an event spon-
sored by several environmental and conser-
vation groups to celebrate solar energy and
the importance of preserving endangered
spec1es.

The Animal Welfare Institute sent her to
Tokyo, where she danced in the emperor’s
garden to show American support for
whale protection during the International
Whaling Commission conference in Japan.
Another IWC conference took her to Lon-
don; there she danced in Trafalgar Square
on behalf of Friends of the Earth.

“Nobody gave me the money to do the
art,” she says. “I did it because I had a
burning desire to make a difference. The
whales can’t talk. But I’m so poor, I go
around debating whether or not I’ll use the
subway. My mother’s family can’t under-
stand why I would want to live in New York
City and starve. My father thinks it’s a
scandal. He feels that with my degrees I
should be commanding a huge salary or
contributing to society as a professor at
Smith College or something. I understand
how they feel,” she adds with a grin. “I
sometimes question my sanity too.”

But her work has provided an outlet for
the feelings that used to overwhelm her. “I
am intrigued by the animal kingdom be-
cause I find that the rage and frustration I
feel about the injustices of the human
world, I can resolve in dealing with the ani-
mal world,” she explains. “I was in a con-
stant state of rage in my 20s — at man’s in-
difference and cruelty and inhumanity to
himself and to animals and to Earth. I’ve
calmed down a lot now. Every day, you’ve
got to live as if it were your last. I despise
the ordinary; the mundane is fearful to me;
because it makes us forget the precious
things in life -- being alive, honoring life.
Animals are beautiful and need to be pre-
served; they’re endangered and oppressed.
I’m strong and blessed, one of the privi—
leged, so I feel it’s my responsibility to take
care of my corner of Earth, no matter how
small.”

reprinted from Animal Kingdom
copies available
from the Animal Welfare Institute.

 




 

 

 

 

LD50 continued

agency; their value is “extremely lim-
ited”. Cellular methods are being as-
sessed as a substitute for the Draize
test.

Dr Neil Littlefield, National Center
for Toxicological Research: There have
been “no requirements for LD50
studies” except under an agreement
with the Consumer Product Safety
Commission whereby an LD50 is called
for if a substance has a toxicity ex-
ceeding 5 mg per kg.

Dr Bennett Ellisberg, National Cen-
ter for Drugs and Biologicals: The Cen-
ter has ‘ ‘never required that an LD50 be
performed.”

Dr Robert Osterberg, Bureau of
Veterinary Medicine, FDA: “At no
time is there any requirement for an
LD50 ........ Human food safety
does not require it.”

Dr Irwin Baumel, Office of Toxic
Substances, Environmental Protection
Agency: “Death need no longer be an
end point.” There is a wide variety of
alternative testing methods including
computer models, bacterial systems, tis-
sue culture and conical cells in culture.
They need vindicating with animal
tCStS.

Nor did the LD50 ﬁnd any favor with
the FDA itself. As well as not requiring
the test, the agency stated it would be
addressing such questions as —— “Do
FDA procedures in any way indirectly
stimulate the perpetuation of the
LD50?” and “Is the FDA making max-
imum use of and encouraging the con-
tinued development of reliable in vitro
testing?”

A dissenting opinion, Virtually the
only one, came from Mr Randal Shu-
macher, Chemical Manufacturers As-
sociation. His concern was litigation.
He spoke of the difﬁculties of facing a
plaintiff in court if there had been “no
animal test of the substance as an irri—
tant or corrosive. . . . It was very use—
ful to have animal data.” He added
“Organized labor may press for addi-
tional information in the work place.”

Other salvoes

This fusillade of fire directed at the
LD50 by the FDA workshop has been sup-
ported in recent months by bombardment
from other bodies, both government and
industry. During the past year or so:

I The government’s own chief toxicol-
ogist, David Rall, director of the National
Toxicology Program, has asserted that the
LD50 “is now an anachronism ..... the
NTP does not use it.”

I The National Society for Medical Re-
search has said that the LD50 “is no longer

scientiﬁcally justiﬁed. ’ ’

I The Hopkins Center has concluded
that “alternative tests would provide sufﬁ-
cient information to ensure human health
while using as few as one-tenth the number
of animals.”

I The Pharmaceutical Manufacturers
Association has asked that LD50 require-
ments be ‘ ‘revised so that fewer animals are
used.”

I Edward Kavanaugh, president of the
Cosmetic, Toiletry and Fragrance Asso-
ciation, has said that the organization en-
courages members “not to use the LD50
test.”

I At a meeting sponsored by Ciba
Geigy, scientists working for pharmaceu-
tical companies voted in favor of abolishing
the LD50 by a 20-1 majority.

I The European Commission’s expert
committee on drug testing has recom-
mended that the LD50 be dropped. And the
Common Market’s rules forbid LD50S at
concentrations that are corrosive at the site
of application, while recommending the
humane killing of animals that are in dis-
tress.

In addition:

I The US Ofﬁce of Technology Assess-
ment, which advises Congressional mem—
bers on scientiﬁc issues, has begun an
18-month study of non-animal testing

Why wait?

methods.

I The National Institutes of Health has
granted 155 million to Battelle’s Columbus,
Ohio, laboratories to develop advanced
analytical instrumentation to support basic
cell-level biomedical research programs.
And NIH has also contracted with the Na-
tional Academy of Sciences to conduct a
series of workshops on Models of Biomed-
ical Research. These workshops will eval-
uate cell systems, lower organisms and non-
biological models.

In a still wider sphere, U.S. multination-
al corporations must also meet the most
cumbersome international regulations. It is
thus crucial that there be a rapid inter-
national consensus which will upgrade safe-
ty testing while reducing animal testing.

On the hopeful side, the German Health
Ministry has been emphasizing testing that
reduces the number of animals used and
there is indication of ongoing informal
meetings among regulators of the European
community directed toward reduction.

Considering the overwhelming climate of
scientiﬁc and public opinion calling for the
abolition of the LD50 and the review of all
routine animal tests, animal organizations,
both national and international, can swiftly
expand the FDA’S precedent, thus saving
tens of millions of animals.

Non—animal alternatives are being continuously developed and reﬁned. But there is
no need to wait until they have been perfected before putting an end to the LD50. It
could immediately be replaced by a test which, for all practical purposes, is just as in-
formative and would save the lives of some four million animals a year. This alter-
native test is known as the Approximate Lethal Dose (ALD). Graduated doses are
given, one per animal, with usually fewer than 10 animals used altogether.

Why can’t it be introduced tomorrow? No reason at all —- except bureaucratic iner—
tia. Some of the regulatory agencies have moved, but some have not. They need

pushing. And pushing. And pushing.

One ﬁnal heave and the battle could be won. Your help, though, is still very much
required. For every day that the doomed LD50 lives on, around 10,000 animals die —
needlessly and painfully. Help to make 1984 the year in which the LD50, after nearly
60 years of death-dealing life, was ﬁnally laid to rest.

Contact the television networks to suggest a feature story on the LD50. Or urge the
editor of your local newspaper to give the issue a thorough airing. Or write in similar
vein to the editors of such magazines as Time, Newsweek etc. For up—to-the-minute
news and any queries, please contact Henry Spira, Coalition to Abolish the LD50, 234

Fifth Avenue, New York NY 10001.

   

c , I \
0 .

 

. ..,,. , .,
. >3» .' ‘—' ‘n
I

LD50S down 75% in Germany

   
   

\t.

  
    

Fougasse

    

 

The West German Federal Health Ofﬁce has said it will accept “approximative LD50” data rather than
formal LD50 values in order to reduce animal testing. The number of animals used in acute toxicity tests in
West Germany is thus likely to drop by 75% — 130,000 annually.

 

 

ﬁve-Fm]

H—Q H.“ m f" h

m l-F‘hﬁ

H-HHHHAHA




 

 

Birth control for wild species is humane and effective

The idea of contraceptives for wild animals may seem difficult to achieve. Yet
they are provmg an effective and humane alternative to trapping, poison,
hunting or relocation — the traditional means of controlling numbers

Capturing and relocating animals with-
out injuring them is expensive and requires
the right habitat elsewhere. Both trapping
and poisoning are exceedingly cruel and fre-
quently kill non-target species. Furthermore
the drop in population may only be tem-
porary: for density-dependent species, not—
ably the coyote, will often use the next
breeding season to make good any losses by
producing more young than usual.

According to Dr Jay Kirkpatrick, a bio]—
ogist and Dean of Eastern Montana Col-
lege, there are far-reaching implications in
the use of contraceptives for wild animals.
Birth-control compounds, whose effects are
reversible and which do not cause death, do
not disturb the social order and do not harm
non-target animals, can be given orally or,
in the case of large mammals, injected from
a distance with a tranquilizer gun.

They can also be used with precision to
prevent overpopulation in national parks
and in residential areas where hunting is
forbidden. Effective, humane, ﬂexible, in-
expensive and incurring no loss to the gene
pool, anti-fertility drugs may well become a
standard wildlife management tool.

Although the concept of birth control for
non-human species is relatively unexplored,
“its application to wild and feral animals is
fundamentally sound” says Kirkpatrick.
He reminds us that “all compounds
available for use in humans were ﬁrst tested
on other animal species.”

Since the development of the steroid
“pill” in the 19503, most testing on wild
animals has made use of synthetic steroidal
compounds. However more recent ad-
vances have used hormones, immunizing
agents and plant products. Tests on both
males and females have involved birds,
coyotes, foxes, deer, horses, lions and
rodents.

In species which maintain harem-like
groups, contraceptives work most efficiently
when the male is made sterile. In 1982
Kirkpatrick and others injected several feral
stallions with a microencapsulated form of
testosterone. Sexual behavior was not af-
fected but a reduced sperm count resulted in
a 83% decline in foals born. Since the
removal of just one feral horse from
overstocked public lands may cost as much
as 151000, the potential saving of such a
scheme is considerable.

Another compound which effectively kills
the sperm of large mammals is Gossypol, a
derivative of cotton seed oil. It comes from
One of 50 plant families which have anti-
fertility effects in the male and female.
These substances may play a signiﬁcant role
In the future management of herbivores.

Hormones can be used to block ovula-
tion in mammals. And immunological

agents can arrest reproduction for from
one to three years. Care must be taken,
though, to screen for any behavioral
effects.

 

 
  
 

Wild Stallions can be rendered infertile for a
year by a single injection without changing
their behavior. This birth control method
avoids the need for stressful roundups or
removal from the wild. Above a tranquilized
stallion awakens.

New study

Kirkpatrick will shortly begin an 18-
month study on the effectiveness of oral
contraceptives given to skunks of both
sexes. Future research, he believes, will
concentrate on bait acceptance by small
mammals and long-acting injections which
will release steroids in larger mammals for
several years.

Birth-control programs could help
resolve highly publicized disputes. For ex-
ample, a controversy has been raging for
nine years at the Great Swamp — a 6000-
acre National Wildlife Refuge in northern
New jersey. The problem is one of over-
population and starvation of deer brought
on by a lack of natural predators and an in-
ﬂux of deer as surrounding areas have be-
come developed.

US Fish and Wildlife Service biologists
decided the number of deer should be re—
duced from 600 to 250 —— the refuge’s
estimated carrying capacity. In 1974,
amidst ﬁery confrontations which continue
to this day, an annual controlled hunt was
instituted. Responding to hunting pres-

F. Kirkpatrick

photo—J.

sure, reproductive rates have subsequently
increased, and each year nearly one-third
of the deer on the refuge have to be shot to
keep total numbers down to 250.

The very materials used to distribute
strychnine and other torturous poisons can
and should be used for contraceptive pur-
poses instead. For example, the skunk will
readily eat eggs. Lace them with strychnine
and they cause an agonizing death without
controlling population. But inject the eggs
with a birth-control drug and the popula-

tion can be controlled — painlessly. The
same principle applies to many other
species in the world — from coyotes to

prairie dogs — which may locally be caus-
ing problems.

Some birth-control programs are already
well established: For years pigeon popula-
tions in certain cities have been kept in
check by a commercial product called
Omitrol. And in Britain the Universities
Federation for Animal Welfare has helped
keep the feral cat population down
through both chemical and surgical
methods.

But while the concept of contraception
for wild and feral animals has been around
for years, research funds remain minimal.
They should surely be increased. For as Dr
Kirkpatrick explains, “Continued en-
croachment by man upon critical habitat
coupled with increased public resistance to
traditional control programs will ulti-
mately require new solutions to overpop-
ulation problems.” And birth control
shows clear promise of being one solution
that all sections of society will applaud.

Strychnine banned

Almost a quarter of a million pounds of
strychnine baits were used in 1982 to kill
prairie dogs. The poisoning continued
throughout most of 1983. But no longer. For
as from mid-November last year the
Environmental Protection Agency has ban-
ned the use of strychnine to kill not only
prairie dogs but also rabbits, opossums,
chipmunks and mountain beavers. Ground
squirrels, porcupines and certain species of
birds and rats may still be poisoned with
strychnine if the products’ labels are
modified.

The reason for this welcome change of
heart of the EPA is the well-documented
carnage among “non-target” animals. In
particular the agency was concerned for the
survival of the near-extinct black-footed fer-
ret which preys chiefly on prairie dogs and
which often lives with or close to them.

Predictably in acting as it did the EPA has
drawn a lot of ﬂak from the cattle industry
and the Department of Agriculture. A year
or so ago the agency would probably have
been more concerned to draw applause
from this direction by ducking out of the
issue entirely. Things are looking up!

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

10

N J continued

said, “I believe this has been the most heavily
lobbied bill in the history of the legislature.’ ’ Lois
Stevenson, writing in The Sunday Star-Ledger,
quoted the Speaker:

“Most lobbying on legislative matters is 99 per-
cent informational; only 1 percent gets as ugly as
we’ve experienced from the trapping interests.
Threats were openly made at meetings that any-
one voting for the trapping bills would be labeled
for life, their careers would be in jeopardy and re-
prisals would be taken at the polls.

“This kind of nasty pressure only makes many
legislators, including me, more determined than
ever to stand by our principles. It is reprehensible
that people who stand up for animal rights are
subjected to such grievous reprisals.”

Speaking in support of his bill, Senator Orechio
said: ‘ ‘We must join civilized nations and ban this
immoral device just as Winston Churchill did
some 30 years ago. The issue here is barbarism!
There can be no possible justiﬁcation for the con-
tinued use of this barbaric device.” However, in
order to pass the bill in the Assembly, it was
necessary to accept an 18-month delay. Rutgers
University was authorized to study alternatives to
the steel-jaw trap. .

By a vote of 65-5 in the Assembly and 26-6 in
the Senate, New Jersey becomes the ﬁrst state to

legislate a total ban on the steel trap.

Animal protection
in Mexico

The University of Mexico has just publish—
ed a 152-page Compendium of Laws and
Regulations for the Protection of Animals
in Mexico. The principal author, Gonzalo
Alcantara, points out that historical
antecedents for these laws go back to the
time before the Conquest and that during
the colonial period many of the pre-
Columbianvalues were lost, among them
the respect the indigenous people had for
animals and nature.

Senor Alcantara singles out the Animal
Protection Law in the Federal District
(passed in 1981 by the National Congress)
as a model which should be adopted
throughout the nation. He recommends
educational programs begun in early child-
hood to develop kindness to animals and
an ecological understanding leading to
protection of the environment.

Readers who are ﬂuent in Spanish will
ﬁnd much of interest in this ﬁrst book of
its kind in Mexico. The AWI was pleased
to be able to supply some of the back-
ground information on laws of other na-
tions for the compendium.

Tiger reappears

The Tasmanian tiger has been feared ex-
tinct since 1936 when the last of the tigers
kept in captivity died. But a Wildlife Service
ranger in Tasmania reports sighting one 18
months ago. The sighting was kept secret
until now to protect the animal.

Trappers Seek to Invade 12 Million Acres of Park Lands

The “Trappers Alert!” column of the February issue of FUR-FISH-GAME touts a bill
“which would reopen approximately 12 million acres of prime trapping and hunting lands that
were lost when the Alaska Lands Act was passed in 1980.”

The column, written by the Wildlife Legislative Fund of America (WLFA), emphasizes that
the bill would “establish the nation’s trappers and hunters as a strong political force

. what’s more, when Congress casts its
vote on this bill, it will be determining the
status of hunters and trappers, in Con-
gress and even state legislatures, for years to
come.”

Under “highlights of the campaign” the
Fund notes, “WLFA lobbyists are meeting
with every member of Congress to explain
the bill and secure votes.”

WLFA was founded to oppose the refer-
endum proposal to ban the steel jaw leghold

trap in Ohio in 1979. Polls had shown that
the majority of Ohioans (like the majority of
Americans) oppose this cruel trap. Never—
theless, the proposal failed due to an expen-
sive media blitz during the last two days.
Scare tactics succeeded in confusing the
voters when no time was left to prepare and
distribute TV tapes to correct the false and
misleading information that had been
disseminated by WLFA.

 

Undercover tactics catch poachers

Three bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis)

 

 

photo — US. Fish and Wildlife Service

“We’re the FBI of the wildlife world,” said Terry Grosz, head of the Fish and Wildlife Ser-
vice’s Law Enforcement Division in Denver. He was referring to the undercover tactics in-
creasingly used to trap the modem-day poacher with his sophisticated equipment —-— two-way
radios, four-wheel drive vehicles and even helicopters and ﬁxed wing aircraft.

The poaching business (and it is very much a business) has grown as with loss of habitat the
animals have become fewer. For scarcity drives up the animals’ value. Which attracts
unscrupulous poachers. Which makes for greater scarcity. Which attracts still more poachers.

And so on. It is a nastily vicious circle.

The poachers regard as “fair game” any
animal or animal product on which they can
see a proﬁt. And today the list is almost
endless — lizards, snakes, raptors, salmon,
walrus, cactus, birds’ eggs, turtle eggs,
bear, elk . . . Newly grown elk antlers can
fetch $120 a pound and an antler may weigh
15 pounds. And $80,000 (yes, $80,000!) is
not too much for an Arab falconer to pay for
just one baby gyrfalcon.

With pay—outs on this sort of scale it is not
surprising that law-enforcement agents
regard wildlife trafﬁcking as being on a par
with drug smuggling. Which is why a
former undercover narcotics agent, Richard
Leach, heads Fish and Wildlife Service’s
covert operations.

One of the most successful traps the Ser-
vice has sprung concerned illegally taken
reptiles. Posing as pet dealers two agents
opened a warehouse in Atlanta and then

advertised in magazines. Their purchase of

turtles, snakes, lizards and other reptiles led

to a great many arrests.

A very recent and spectacular piece of
undercover work has resulted in the break-
ing of a Colorado-Montana hunting ring in
which trophy-sized elk, deer, goats, sheep
and bears were being slain in their hundreds
for sale to collectors. Hunts were
“guaranteed” — meaning a trophy and
price were agreed in advance and the
hunter, the client, was then led to his prey
by guides.

In this particular case the hunter was of—
fering $7500 for a record (records are very
important) bighorn sheep. But what the two
crooked guides did not know was that the
hunter was not really a hunter; he was an
undercover Fish and Wildlife Service agent.

And the two crooked guides? They were a
most respectable pair. Or rather they had all
the trappings of respectability. One was a

Denver police detective and the other a
Montana minister.

 

 

 




 

 

  

 

 

  
  

 

 

 

 

  

 

  
  
 

Belgium joins CITES

The year 1984 started well. On New Year’s
Day CITES gained a very signiﬁcant new
member: Belgium. For many years Belgium
has been the largest leak in the CITES dam,
particularly as an importer of poached
ivory. But the regulations of the European
Economic Community now oblige all EEC
members to ratify CITES or to take equally
effective national action to curb trade in en-
dangered species. So — pushed and prodd—
ed from many sides Belgium has at last
taken the plunge. Conservationists will be
watching to ensure that CITES’ 82nd
member fully abides by the letter and spirit
of the Convention.

The Ferrets’ return

“The Bollo Caper — A Furry Tail For All Ages”
by Art Buchwald. New York: G. P. Putnam’s Sons; 1983.

This is the “tail”

. . of a leopard called Bollo who was living in Africa and had a girl friend called Nefer-
titi. Unfortunately a

. movie star in California wanted a leopard-skin coat, and Felix the Furrier was to
supply it. Bollo is kidnapped by native hunters — but not before he had made sure that Nefertiti was
safely up a tree. He is taken by air to New York, but manages to escape from his crate on the way from
the airport: arrived in New York City, he manages to get to the 200, where the other animals advise him
how to get to Washington to have himself declared an endangered species. How this works out, and the

" ending of the “tail” (and Bollo’s reunion with Nefertiti) you will discover. When I read this story I was so

delighted I immediately read it again. I should say that the illustrations by Elise Primavera are first class.

—HughGough
Mexican Veterinarian Joins A.W.I. committee

With great pleasure we announce that
Dr. Aline S. de Aluja has accepted an in-
vitation to join the International
Committee of the *
Animal Welfare In-
stitute. She heads the
Department of
Pathology of the
School of Veterinary
Medicine at the Na-
tional University of
Mexico City and has
actively participated
in the development '

of animal protection laws in Mexico.
Her areas of interest are diverse and she
has published papers and lectured on
animal transport, animal slaughter, lab-
oratory animal alternatives as well as the
control of the stray dog population in
Mexico City. Her hope is that she has
impressed her students with the need to
respect animals and “to realize that if
the Veterinary profession does not do
anything to relieve their suffering, then
who will?” She is a member of
“Pronatura” to protect wildlife.

      

 

Cousin to the mink and weasel and formerly
widespread in the western US, the black-
footed ferret was recently thought extinct.
Then in 1981 one was discovered. In fact at
least one more must have been around at
the time, undiscovered —- and of a different
sex. Because two years later a count in the
area came up with a figure of 88, all alive
and kicking.

The area concerned is near Meeteetse,
Wyoming. It is the only place the ferret is
known to exist. However it is believed that
last year’s young ferrets, solitary by nature,
may be moving to new areas and perhaps
dying en route. To find outjust where they
are going researchers have fitted radio col—
lars to seven young and three adults.
Depending on results, a relocation or

captive-breeding program could be the next
step.

    

it"

 

black footed ferret (M ustha nigripcs)

 

 

 

Animal Welfare Institute

 

 

Directors
Scientific Committee lntemational Committee Officers John Beary, M.D.
Madeleine Bemelmans
Marjorie Anchel, Ph. D. T. G_ Anﬁkas’ D.V.M. __ Greece Christine Stevens, President Gerard Bertrand PhD.
Bennett Derby, M.D. Angela King—United Kingdom Cynthia Wilson, Vice President Marjorie Cooke
F. Barbara Orlans, PhD. David Ricardo—Canada Marjorie Cooke, Secretary Chnstabel Gough
ROQer Payne, Ph. D. NE. Wernberg—Denmark Roger 1.. Stevens, Treasurer David 0. Hill
Samuel Peacock, MD. Godofredo Stutzin—Chile Sue Hunt
John Walsh, M.D. Simon Muchiru—Kenya Freeborn G. Jewett, Jr.
Ambassador Fumihiko Togo—Japan ghrishn'le Stevens
' S. at Al ' D.V.M. — Mexico ieen ram
Aline e uja Cynthia Wilson
Staff ' N ll N hton Mail Order Secretary
Patrick Allen, Editorial Consultant Lyntne [Hutcgisom thlsiogggpalgn Secretary Gfeta $1350“ ’Wildlife Consultant
C ° ° ° ° ' Cat iss, esearc . . _
Diariizii‘lgsrdi‘sbﬁdgezesfrziivme ASSclisaitaem Elizatsieth E. Cory, Publications Coordinator Adele Schoepperle, Assnstant Treasurer

for livestock and poultry
Louise Wright, Research Assistant

Lynda Power, Administrative Assistant
Susan K. Rehr, Legal Editor

 

 

    

photo — US. Fish and Wildlife Service

  




 

 

Jettisoned fishing gear menaces monk seal

This monk seal is unable to free himself from the plastic ring which muzzles him.

 

r
Greystoke
The Legend of Tarzan

A natural wonder, the African rain forest,
and a manmade splendor, the country seat of
the Earls of Greystoke, make Greystoke an
unforgettably beautiful ﬁlm. To see the great
Ralph Richardson playing Tarzan’s grand-
father to perfection is reason enough to go,
but there’s much more. Christopher Lambert,
who gives an elegant portrayal of the heroic
Tarzan, visited the signing chimpanzees and
their teacher, Dr. Roger Fouts, at Eastern
Washington University to observe chimp
social behavior and body language.

His performance combines the profound
expression of human and chimpanzee emo-
tions portraying passionate sorrow at the
death of his chimpanzee foster mother, shot by
a poisoned arrow, and later, when his grand-
father dies at a magniﬁcent Greystoke party.
Conveying the animal nobility of his jungle
unbringing, the dashing young peer clashes
with Edwardian society in a gripping scene in
which he leaves the ofﬁcial museum tour after
his appearance at the dedication ceremony
and ﬁnds dissected apes on the tables of the in-
stitution’s anatomy laboratory. Pressing on,
he reaches a still living, caged chimpanzee
with whom he exchanges sympathetic hoot
calls, then opens the door and leads him past
the Albert Memorial into the park. But the
chimp’s freedom is short-lived as the
authorities shoot him out of a tree.

The Hawaiian monk seal is a highly en-
dangered mammal. And a prime cause
is high-seas ﬁshermen — or rather the
gear they so thoughtlessly jettison. Dur-
ing just half of 1982, on one tiny
Hawaiian island, Lisianski, 21 pieces of
net and line were washed ashore — to
add to the 52 items of ﬁshermen’s
debris already counted on the 7-km
beach.

That same year 25 monk seal pups
survived to weaning on the island. Of
these, 10 were seen to swim in and
through pieces of netting, resulting in
four entanglements. Fortunately for
these pups ﬁeld personnel were on hand
to free them — and to remove a plastic
ring around the muzzle of another pup.
But entanglements, which are increas-
ingly common the world over, seldom
end so happily. Every year hundreds of
thousands of birds, turtles and marine
mammals are drowned in the gillnets,
trawl nets and purse seines of the
world’s ﬁshing ﬂeets. (For a fuller
acount of this issue, see The
ﬁshermen’s accidental harvest on page

10 of the Fall 1983 Quarterly.)

Dolphins win latest round in their ﬁght for life

The latest round in the protracted battle
between the dolphins and the tuna ﬁsher-
men has gone to the dolphins. On 24
January by an 8-3 majority the US. 9th
Circuit Court of Appeals overturned a 1981
District Court ruling which declared that
although the Government could place
observers on vessels for scientiﬁc data
gathering, it could not use their observa-
tions in subsequent law enforcement pro-
ceedings. As a result, until this most recent

ruling, the Federal Government has been
unable for two years to enforce the require—
ments of the Federal Marine Mammal Pro—
tection Act against tuna industry violators.

Environmental Defense Fund attorney
Michael]. Bean, who successfully fought to
keep the observers aboard, said, “The
court’s decision will restore the ability of
the Government to insure that these grace-
ful mammals of the sea receive the protec-
tion that the law requires.”

 

Richard Ellis

Greenpeace’s Dolphin Action Group is asking for help. It seeks members to give not money .but time ——
time to help save dolphins from being drowned in Japanese and American ﬁshlng nets by writing letters to
newspaper editors and others who can inﬂuence public opinion. If you wish to support Greenpeace in their
campaign to save the dolphins write to: Greenpeace Foundation, 19 Niolopa Place, Honolulu, Hawaii

96817.

The ﬁlm is tragic as well as beautiful.
Its surprise ending may presage a sequel. J

 

 

 

 




THE

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

QUARTERLY

 

PO BOX 3650

WASHINGTON, DC. 20007

SPRING 1985

VOL. 34 NO. 1

Animal (mis)handlers are getting away with murder

On 7 February three squirrel monkeys died from exposure to extreme
cold either before or during a ﬂight from New York to San Francisco. On
the same day a pigtail monkey died from exposure to extreme cold either
before or during a ﬂight from New York to Michigan. On each occasion
the carrier responsible was Emery Worldwide.

From time to time such cases come
to light, charges are brought under
the Animal Welfare Act and we (and
others) report on them. But it is now
plain that we (and others) must recast
our ideas as to how frequent these
“accidents” are. Estimates made on
the basis of known cases are almost
certainly well below the true ﬁgure.

We base this assertion on the facts
”surrounding this case and on infor-
mation received from an employee
of Emery. He makes two main points.
One, Emery is not equipped to handle
live animal shipments nor are its per-
sonnel trained to ensure the health
and safety of animals. Two, animals
left unattended on loading docks in
sub-zero temperatures are almost
certain to die.

Now what our informant says about
Emery is doubtless no less true of
many other carriers. As to his second
point—a city like New York can expect
many days of extreme cold in winter
and many days of extreme heat in

summer. For cooped up animals, pro—
longed exposure to either extreme
will be fatal.

But what of the other facts surround-
ing this case? The recipient of the
three dead squirrel monkeys, the
Animal Care Facility at the University
of California, San Francisco, wrote to
the shipper requesting replacements.
And the shipper wrote to the carrier
demanding compensation [but with-
out voicing even the mildest of re-
proofs for the cruel thoughtlessness
that slew the animals]. Neither party
saw ﬁt to report what was clearly a
ﬂagrant breach of the Animal Welfare
Act.

If this apathetic reaction, this con-
spiracy of silence, is typical—and there
is no reason to suppose otherwise—
then a great many offences of this
kind are occurring. And the offenders
are seldom punished because USDA,

the agency responsible for enforcing
the Animal Welfare Act, is seldom
told.

Credit: R. Mittenneiei, WWF

Hopefully this squirrel monkey will never
ﬁnd himself going “air freight” from dealer
to laboratory.

That an Animal Care Facility belong-
ing to one of the nation’s premier uni-
versities should neglect to report such
a plain case of maltreatment is shame-
ful. And a little surprising. That the
shipper should feel that his duty in
the matter has been fully discharged
by mailing a claim for compensation is
no less shameful. Though in this case,
not at all surprising.

For the shipper in question was
none other than the world’s largest
supplier of laboratory animals, Charles
River— to whom regular readers of
the Quarterly will need no further intro-
duction.

 

Trapped in a steel-jaw leghold. This German
Shepherd was not the target species but it
got caught just the same. Such “accidents”
are not uncommon: see page 5.

This bill would end steel—jaw trapping

A bill to end the use of the steel-jaw leghold
trap, HR 1809, was introduced in Congress
in March by Tom Lantos (D-CA) withjames
Scheuer (D-NY) as chief co-sponsor. They
are joined by 70 members of the House in a
major push to see the proposal enacted into
law. With the solid support of the American
public and the vigorous encouragement of
groups around the nation, the United States
could, in this Congressional session, join
the more than 60 countries who prohibit use
of this device.

A recently published selection of letters
addressed to George Whitney, DVM, exem-
pliﬁes professional opinion on the steel-jaw
trap. Excerpts follow:

“It is impossible for me to understand how our civi-
lization and culture can tolerate the use of the leg-

hold trap.”
Samuel M. Peacock, jr., MD

Associate Professor
jefferson Medical College

“Hopefully the growing awareness of the excruci-
ating pain that this device inflicts upon animals will
be accompanied by legislation to outlaw its use.”
Leo J. Hickey, Director
Peabody Museum of Natural
History
Yale University

Continued on page 2

 




 

Steel jaw continued

“Would like my name included as one who vehe-
mently opposes leg traps. The veterinary oath in—
cludes a promise to ease suffering in animals hence I
believe the AVMA should actively lobby against
such barbarianism.”
Dr. Thomas E. Powers
Head, Dept. of Physiology
Ohio State University

“It is our considered opinion that devices such as the
leghold trap do not belong in a society where people
consider themselves civilized in their behavior
towards each other and towards animals.”
Louis van der Heide
College of Agriculture and
Natural Resources
University of Connecticut

“There are few devices as brutal as the steel jawed
leghold trap. I ﬁnd it absolutely unbelievable that it
is still in common, widespread use. . . . I have seen
animals in pain and heard them scream out on the
African savanna. Yes, animals feel pain and agony,
just as we do.”

Donald C. Johanson, PhD

Director

Institute of Human Origins

Berkeley, CA

“I am acutely aware of the anxiety and fear wila

animals can feel when captured in leghold traps by

my fourteen years of experience dealing with over
130 species of mammals.”

Emil P. Dolensek, DVM

New York Zoological Society

“That the steel jawed leghold trap is a cruel device
goes without saying, and to think of something more
inhumane, I cannot. . . . I commend your eﬂorts to
outlaw this device. . . .”
A. Bartlett Giamatti
President, Yale University

 

It’s time we were rid of this monstrous
device.

 

Credit: Richard Ellis

 

 




 

Banks freeze loans

The last Quarterly carried an article doc-
umenting the crass misdeeds of develop-
ers and their international backers in
Brazil’s Amazonian rainforest. The de-
struction there, in the state of Ron-
donia, continues but one piece of good
news has now emerged. Lastjanuary for
the ﬁrst time ever a multilateral bank re-
fused to endorse a loan intended for
Amazonian development—and did so
on environmental grounds.

The bank concerned was the Inter-
American Development Bank (IDB). Last
january environmentalists requested
and obtained a meeting with IDB poli-
cy makers. The matter at issue was Bra-

_. zil’s development, backed by interna-

tiOnal funds, of yet another large slice of
virgin rainforest without (yet again) any
proper environmental safeguards.

Pointing to the heedless despoliation
of forest and tribespeople in Rondonia—
in contravention of contractual under-
takings—the environmentalists voiced
well-substantiated fears that devel-
opment in the neighboring state of Acre
could be even more destructive. At the
same time the US Treasury (which con—
tributes 35% of IDB’s capital) was also
briefed on the perils implicit in fund-
ing this development.

Later injanuary came IDB’s decision—
on instructions from then Secretary of
Treasury, Donald Regan—to withhold
$14.5 million from its Fund for Special
Operations, so lopping some 20% off
the total slated for the loan. Environ-

World Bank nowmstoo
’ " ndereemEpressurefrom

 

 

Desertiﬁcation follows destruction of rain forest.

mentalists believe that the decision may
reveal a crucial shift in government
thinking. In explanation a Treasury
spokesman cited “the unsustainable
nature of the agricultural development
likely to take place on the poor soils in
the region and the heavy deforestation
expected with road construction.”

If the government is showing signs of
having seen the light, it is important to
ensure that the shutters do not come
down again. Pressure must be kept up,
indeed stepped up. Last fall the House
Banking Subcommittee on Interna—
tional Development Institutions and
Finance urged the multilateral banks to
give more weight to environmental fac-
tors in loan decisions. The Treasury
agreed to help promote the Subcom-
mittee’s recommendations through the
US executive directors of the banks.
These recommendations include:

o Assign a full-time environmental
staff member to each of the World
Bank’s six regional ofﬁces and estab-
lish a central environmental ofﬁce in
IDB.

o Involve nongovernmental conserva-
tion organizations and indigenous
peoples of developing countries in
planning and carrying out projects.

0 Actively involve the ministers of en-
vironment and health of developing
countries in formulating policies.

on Amazonian development

 

Credit: P.T. Teuscher, United Nations

0 Make plans and strategies conform
to the World Conservation Strategy.

0 Commit staff and money to carrying
out the pledges made in the banks’
1980 Declaration of Environmental
Policies and Procedures Relating to
Economic Development.

0 Refuse ﬁnance for projects that are
unsustainable or that threaten spe-
cies’ extinction or that degrade pro-
tected natural areas or the land on
which indigenous peoples depend.

o Devote resources to small-scale tech-
nologies rather than to extravagant
large-scale projects.

0 Cease financing roadbuilding and
settlement projects in tropical forests.
You can help curb rainforest destruc-

tion by urging IDB and the World Bank

to implement the recommendations of
the House Banking Subcommittee.

Please write to:

Antonio Ortiz Mena, President

Jose’ Manuel Casanova, US executive
director

Inter-American Development Bank

1808 1 7th Street, NW

Washington, DC 205 77

AW. Clausen, President

James B. Bumham, US executive director
World Bank

1818 H Street, NW

Washington, DC 20433

 




Bows and arrows are
not the weapon

In New Hampshire there were several
arrests last November on charges of ille-
gally killing or selling moose, deer and
black bear. The killing of moose is for-
bidden at all times in the state and it is
illegal to sell the ﬂesh of any wild ani-
mal killed within state borders, except
the black bear. Licensed hunters are
allowed to take just one bear a year and
sell any part of it.

Since the toenails, gallbladder, hide
and teeth of a black bear will fetch
around $500, the state’s bear popula-
tion is coming under severe pressure.
Guides are charging up to $2000 for a
bear hunt lasting less than a week— and
there are plenty of takers.

One macabre detail is that the re-
ported bow—and-arrow kill of bears is
up tremendously. In fact, though, these
bears have been shot: virtually all have
bullet holes in them. The guide tells the
hunter not to buy a license till the
animal is killed and then to buy a bow-
and-arrow license. This costs just $24 as

against a regular license fee of $59.

The New Hampshire game depart—

ment is energetically tracking down
bear violations. It is to be hoped that the
courts will be equally vigorous in crack—
ing down on them.

Ethics symposium

Four years ago a symposium entitled L050
and possible alternatives was held in Stockholm,
Sweden (the winter 1982 Quarterly carried a
full report). A follow-up symposium, again
under the auspices of Sweden’s National
Board for Laboratory Animals, will take
place in Stockholm 12-14 August this year.
The title is The Ethics of Animal Experimenta-
tion.

The organizers say they “expect to attract
specialists from all over the world and hope
for an evaluation of the experience of how
animal experimentation in different coun-
tries is regulated.” For details write to:
Second CFN Symposium, c/o RESO Con-
gress Service, 5- 105 24 Stockholm, Sweden.
Telephone: International +46822 6020.

law 377 “mama

SECOND cm smmsxun
THE ETHICS OF ANIMAL WHEN

I STOCKHOIM, SWEDEN
2 AUGUST 12-14. I935

' vities, as well as his interest in the work

 

 

Stop this wholesale destruction of wildlife

Welcome to the Environmental Investiga-
tion Agency! This new organization has pro-
duced a most valuable and detailed study of
the “legitimate” trade in wildlife. The study
focuses on the huge trafﬁc passing through
Heathrow Airport in London but the resear-
chers also interviewed a great many people
connected with the trade in Africa, south-
east Asia and the US.

AWI in association with the Humane
Society of the United States is happy to have
published a summary of this study, though
it certainly does not make for happy read-
ing. For as Sir Peter Scott says in his fore-
word, the “ﬁndings are devastating”—and

 

 

as Ambassador to Washington from 197 6 f
to 1980. He and his Wife, ISe, Were out-f
Standing members of the diplomatic]
'2 .. community, The: espousal of humane;

    
  
   

highlighted by the,”
' 'd atthe showcase

‘ Japanese busmess and commercxal ac,

the Institute’We have lost a statesma"
friend and jcate of animal interestsg-{i’ig

 

 

Wanted: a national policy for
taking animals on our

public lands

On 26 March Senator Cranston (D-Calif)
introduced a joint resolution to establish a
national policy for the taking of mammals
and birds on public lands. The Senator
singled out three critical issues: the need to
recognize the interdependency of predator
and prey; the need for any national policy on
the killing of predators or scavenging ani-
mals to take account of this interdepen-
dency; the need for clear, statutory pro-
cedures.

Expanding on these issues Senator Cran-
ston said that wildlife managers cannot re-
liably duplicate the effects of natural preda—
tion. By and large prey that fall victim to a
natural predator are the less healthy speci-
mens. Natural predation unlike human
predation therefore exerts a healthy inﬂu-
ence on the prey stock.

this despite most of the trade being con-
ducted by members of CITES which repeat-
edly, in the text of the treaty, requires the
nations who have ratiﬁed the treaty and
those who catch, handle and sell live ani-
mals to “minimize the risk of injury, damage
to health or cruel treatment.”

The study views the trade from the stand-
point of capture, preparation and shipment
to eventual purchase and quarantine in the
consumer countries. When viewed from this
perspective an enormous tragedy comes to
light: wholesale deaths of wildlife in quanti-
ties hitherto unrealized and involving terror
and suffering on an unimaginable scale.

A punishment to ﬁt
the crime

It seems that US judges are beginning to
treat wildlife offences with the serious-
ness they have long deserved. In the fall
1984 Quarterly we told of the busting of
a wildlife smuggling ring by federal
undercover agents. The defendants have
now been tried.

The ringleader, Loren Ellison of Big
Timber, Montana, was found guilty on
seven charges of killing and selling pro~
tected wildlife and acting as guide on
out-of-season hunts. He received a 15—
year prison sentence. At last the punish-
ment is beginning to ﬁt the crime.

WARNING

THE ILLEGAL DISPOSAL OF
TOXIC WASTES WILL
RESULT IN JAIL.

WE SHOULD KNOW
WE GOT CAUGHT!

The above was the headline to an unusual
advertisement in the Los Angeles Times one
day last February. The ad explained that the
president and vice president of the furni-
ture— equipment company American Caster
were now in jail for burying 254 drums of
toxic waste and dumping pollutants into
Los Angeles sewers. The company also had
to pay $40, 000 1n ﬁnes and cleanup costs—
and publicly confess their sins to readers of
the L. A. Times.

Another Los Angeles ﬁrm recently ‘in-
dicted for wrongful toxic-waste disposal also
temporarily lost its president—locked away
for three months—and had to pay a $100,000
ﬁne and supply free, bottled, puriﬁed water
to several customers. Confessional ads are
the latest weapon of the Los Angeles Toxic
Waste Strike Force whose director, Barry
Groveman, says: “An ad like that is worth a
million prosecutions.”

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Tripod the tabby
wins through

Each April the Chicago-based Pets Are
Wonderful Council (PAW for short)
sponsors a Most Wonderful Pet contest
to encourage people to provide homes
for the thousands and thousands of
dogs and cats in animal shelters. One of
the contestants this year was Tripod, a
tabby who lost a front leg after being
caught in a steel-jaw leghold trap.

Tripod was held in the agonizing grip
of that trap for a week in freezing
weather. When ﬁnally found she weighed
less than three pounds although she was
several months old. Because Tripod’s
leg had to be amputated her owner
decided she didn’t want her and asked
veterinarian Dr. Donald Fincher to put
her to sleep.

 

Prize-winning Tripod at Dr. Fincher’s oﬁice.

Fincher declined. He says: “I just
couldn’t do that. Tripod had fought so
hard to live, to get well. I asked the
owner if it would be OK to ﬁnd her
another home and I knew where that
home would be: with me.”

 

New federal regulations are being pro—
posed which would gravely weaken the
rights of elderly and disabled pet owners
in federal subsidized housing. These
rights were enshrined in a 1983 law spon-
sored by Congressman Mario Biaggi (D-
NY). Referring to “a 9-year effort on my
part to prevent discrimination against
elderly and disabled tenants in federal
housing to own pets,” Biaggi is hotly
challenging many of the new regulations.

In particular he strongly opposes the
forced moving of tenants from ﬂoor to
ﬂoor in order to maintain “pet” and “no
pet” areas and the proposal to extract a

 

Pet-owner rights are under threat

fee from pet owners, regardless of how
well they have cared for their pet or how
long they have had it.

He also urges that steps be taken to
ensure that all pet owners fully under-
stand any new regulations and that a fair
hearing be given to those wishing to
appeal an eviction notice or the threat-
ened removal of their pet. He says: “I
respect the right of landlords to take
steps against unruly pets. However when
one considers how important a pet can
be for the health and safety of an elderly
citizen, federal policies should respect
this as well.”

 

 

From trauma to
triumph

Bridget’s early life was scarred by near-
tragedy. One cold day in December 1981
while doing the rounds of her rural neigh-
borhood in Michigan she ran straight into
a steel-jaw leghold trap. Fortunately
for this beautiful Bouvier de Flandres,
help arrived in time to save both life and
le .

gFor a while, though, her life still hung
in the balance; no one seemed willing to
adopt her. But Bn'dget’s warm pleading
eyes did the trick, winning the heart of a
shelter volunteer who enrolled her on a
leader dog course for the blind in
Rochester.

In April 1982, just four months after
her traumatic experience, Bridget made
history by becoming the ﬁrst Bouvier to
graduate as a Leader Dog for the Blind.

 

From a vicious trap to a happy home

Now she is a leader for Florence Smith
from Royal Oak, Mich., and the pair are
becoming quite famous. Together they
travel across the country speaking on
behalf of the Leader Dog Program and
visiting patients in nursing homes to
bring them a message of hope.

Credit: Humane Society of Huron Valley

So Tripod won through. And at the
Most Wonderful Pet contest she was
also a winner; she got the “most congen-
iality” award.

 

 

Australians oppose
factory farming

A poll published in Australia’s National
Farmer magazine on people’s views of
factory farming has come up with sur—
prising and very pleasing results. Of
women who gave deﬁnite answers, 92%
opposed battery hen farming and 84%
opposed intensive pig farming. The
men lagged somewhat but most of them
still ended up on the right side. Of those
giving deﬁnite answers, 68% opposed
battery hen farming and 64% opposed
intensive pig farming.

 

Free range pays

In England demand is growing for free-
range eggs, even though they cost slightly
more than the “normal” battery ones. A
Hampshire farmer, Michael Smith, tenta-
tively started a free-range business in 1981
on 40 acres of land. Today, in association
with some 30 farmers in the area, he sells
250,000 free—range eggs every week.

Mr. Smith deﬁnes free range as g een
grass within 12 paces of the hen house. his
means a maximum of 250 hens to the/acre.
Living is good for Mr. Smith’s hens. And a
good living is what they give him in return.

 

 




 

 

 

Acting for endangered species:

David Attenborough,

naturalist, writer and ﬁlm maker,
speaks up for the Endangered Species Act

 

TESTIMONY OF DAVID ATTENBOROUGH

011

THE ENDANGERED SPECIES ACT
presented to
THE US HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
COMMITTEE ON MERCHANT MARINE AND FISHERIES
SUBCOMMITTEE ON FISHERIES, WILDLIFE CONSERVATION,
AND THE ENVIRONMENT

March 14, 1984

 

As a citizen of Great Britain and an Inter-
national Trustee of the World Wildlife
Fund, I am honored to appear before you
to help, if I can, in your deliberations on
the Endangered Species Act.

For the past 30 years, I have had the
great good fortune to spend much of my
time travelling in the wilder parts of the
world, making ﬁlms about natural history.
The latest of them, a series called The
Living Planet, is at the moment being
shown throughout the United States on
the Public Broadcasting System. My jour-
neys have taken me to some of the re-
motest parts of the earth, from the ice of
the Antarctic to the jungles of South

 

Conservation is sometimes
represented as being the enemy of
development. On the contrary.
Without conservation we will have
nothing to develop.

 

America, from the central Sahara desert to
lonely islands in the Paciﬁc. Yet paradoxi-
cally the more I travel in little-populated
regions, the more plain it is to me how
greatly mankind, in the densely-populated
parts of the world, depends on the ani-
mals and plants of the wilderness.

Of course, we all recognize that without
plants human beings would die. Without
plants we have nothing to eat. Even when
we eat meat we are eating plants at one
remove. It is less often realized that our
present food plants, unchanged, will not
continue to provide the ever—growing
population of the world with all it needs.

The particular strains of food plants
upon which we depend are extraordinarly
few. Seventy-two percent of the potatoes

6

grown in the United States belong to only
four varieties. All the peas grown here
come from just two. Just four varieties of
wheat produce three—quarters of all the
crop grown on the Canadian prairies, and
a single variety takes up more than half of
that vast area. These cultivated strains of
wheat, peas, and potatoes, however, have
to be changed every decade or so to keep
them free from disease. If one such dis-
ease were to get hold, immense areas
could be devastated and many people
would face starvation.

To produce new strains, plant breeders
need new genetic resources that come
from wild species of grasses, potatoes and
peas. Only recently, a new species of corn

was discovered in Mexico that is not only
resistant to several viral diseases, but is
perennial, so it might be the means of pro-
ducing a new disease-resistant variety of
corn that will grow year after year and
need less care than those we cultivate at
present. 80 it is essential that wild species
related to our food plants should contin-
ue to ﬂourish in the wild‘and that the
wildemesses that might harbour them
should not be destroyed.

Plants provide us with many products
apart from food. We use them for timber
in construction and for paper. Until now,
that has meant cutting down trees; but re-
cently a wild hibiscus in Kenya called
kenaf has been discovered to produce ex-
cellent ﬁbre for paper mills in a single sea-
son, instead of taking the 15 years or more
that pine trees need to reach commercial
size. A wild ﬂower from the Mediterranean
region called crambe yields chemicals that
can perform the difﬁcult job of lubricat-
ing jet aircraft engines. And the number
of drugs and medicines produced by
plants is vast.

Approximately 40% of the prescrip-
tions dispensed from pharmacies here in
the United States are directly based on
plant products. A small plant, a peri-
winkle from Madasgascar, is now known
to produce one of the best cures we have

 

This kouprey is a wild cow found only in Cambodia—and there only in very small numbers.

Credit: H. Diller, WWF.

 

Credit: Norman Myers, WWF.

 

 

 




Credit: Norman Myers, WWF.

 

Black rhino and calf In the last two years Africa has lost over 50% of its black rh

killed for their horns.

for certain types of cancer. In short, the
practical value to be derived from wild
plants is truly incalculable. That is liter-
ally true. We have made no proper survey
of the plant kingdom from the point of
view of their use as drugs or food. We have
not even discovered or named all the
plants in the world. And yet, all over the
world, we are destroying wild areas and
with them species of plants that grow only
there. Conservation is sometimes repre-
sented as being the enemy of develop-
ment. On the contrary. Without conserva-
tion, we will have nothing to develop.
Similarly, many wild animals have a
value to us that we still do not properly
appreciate. We have only recently dis—
covered that a kind of shell-less sea snail
living off the coast of California contains a
chemical that is capable of reducing blood
pressure. We now realize that species of
antelope that evolved over millions of
years to crop the relatively poor grass—
lands of parts of Africa or central Asis are
more efficient at turning such meagre
pasturage into meat than imported do-
mesticated versions of the cattle that evol—
ved in the lusher environments of Europe.
The kouprey, a wild cow from the
tropical forests of Cambodia, now seems
to be one of the few species of cattle to be
resistant to one of the most devastating
livestock diseases. Today we are begin-
ning to master the techniques of genetic
engineering, and it may well be that the
vast and still as yet uncatalogued diversity
of life will prove to be the most valuable
resource that this planet has to offer us.
But it is not simply single species that
are so important to the continued welfare
of mankind. Animals and plants live in
complex, interdependent communities
that function as units; and these too are
essential for the well-being of life on
earth. The tropical rain forest is a crucial
element in maintaining the oxygenation
of the world’s atmosphere and the pattern
of regular rainfall. The soils that feed the
earth’s 4.8 billion people are created and

  

so

inos—

kept fertile by specialized communities of
living organisms. Our water would be a
polluted, toxic brew were it not for the
countless plants and micro—organisms that,
by serving their own needs, turn natural
and human-created wastes into harmless
and even beneﬁcial substances. Without a
cloak of vegetation, the land may be
scourged by erosion, the risk of disastrous
ﬂooding increases sharply, and droughts
become more frequent and damaging.

The terrible drought that has killed and
is still killing hundreds of thousands of
people in Ethiopia and other parts of the
African Sahel is not merely a natural phe-
nomenon. It has struck a land whose
people have destroyed more than half
the natural vegetation in the last few
decades. We mismanage our landscapes
at our own peril. We simply cannot do
without the ecosystem services provided
by life on Earth.

But you may well ask—what has this got
to do with the whooping crane, the Florida
manatee, the bald eagle and the other
animals and plants that the Endangered

Species Act is designed to protect? Well,
in the ﬁrst place, each of those creatures is
an indicator—a very conspicuous one—of
the well-being of one particular habitat.
Their increasing scarcity is one certain
sign that a whole community of plants
and animals, large and small, is in danger
of being lost.

The whooping crane is endangered be—
cause the whole character of the aquatic
systems along which it lives is being
changed by man. The Florida manatee is
disappearing because the increasing traf-
ﬁc of small power boats is not only dis-
turbing them but churning up the water-
ways and altering their whole ecological
structure. So if you save these large and
dramatic creatures in the wild, you are
likely to save whole groups of other spe-
cies which themselves may have practical
value to mankind which we do not, at the
moment, even suspect.

But if someone could demonstrate that
there was no practical value whatsoever,
for food or medicine or anything else, to
be gained from such creatures, would that
mean that we would be justiﬁed in allow-

 

Millions—and I among
them—would argue that these
creatures have a value to mankind
that far transcends the merely
practical. They and the other
creatures that live with them,
together with the landscape they
inhabit, are part of the natural
treasures of this great country, part
of the birthright of its citizens.

 

ing them to be shot or letting them from
sheer carelessness simply disappear into
extinction? Of course not. Millions—and
I am among them—would argue that
these creatures have a value to mankind

(Continued on page 8)

 

Going,Going

o The rainﬁrrests are still tumbling. It’s
goodbye to an area the size of Pennsylvania
every year—to make way for (amongst
other essentials) fields of coca for turning
into cocaine and beef cattle for turning
into hamburgers.

0 Merchant ships dump over 600, 000 plas-
tic containers in the sea every day. Fisher-
men “lose” over 1800 miles of nets in the
North Pacific every year. Millions of sea-
birds, porpoises, turtles and seals get
entangled in this debris every year and die.

0 Elephants continue to fall—to guns and
snares and poison. Ivory sales continue to
climb—to an all—time high of over 1000
tons in 1983. And as rhino-hom prices
soar, rhino numbers plummet. In just the

past two years over 50% of Africa ’s black
rhinos have been done to death.

0 Several hundred million migratory birds
are being shot, trapped and netted every
year by Mediterranean hunters—with no
favors shown to the rare and “protected”.

0 The cage-bird trade takes millions of birds
from the wild every year—the US alone
taking half a million. Enormous mor-
tality results from the long, stressful jour-
ney from forest to cage.

0 Primates still make suly'ects for dubious
experiments, wild cats still make furs for
aﬂluent women, whales still make whale-
meat for the already well-nourished—and
wildlife smugglers still make huge proﬁts
for themselves.

 




 

 

 

 

CITES is falling down on its treaty obligations

The countries that are party to the Con-
vention on International Trade in Endan-
gered Species (CITES) met in Buenos
Aires, Argentina, in April. The summer
Quarterly will cany a full report. Dele-
gates to the conference received two brand
new publications which were sponsored by
AWI.

One is titled Injury, Damage to
Health and Cruel Treatment and
deals with the CITES requirement, reiter-

ated several times in the text of the treaty,
that the shippers and carriers of wild ani-
mals must do everything possible to ensure
the safety, comfort and health of their
charges. The ﬁndings are deeply depressing
(see page 4).

The second publication is a 300-page
report, written by Greta Nilsson, wildlife
consultant for AWI and author of The
Bird Business. The report, titled Impor-
tation of Birds into the United States

1980-1984, is replete with horrifying sta-
tistics on mortality rates for birds coming
into this country. For example, 55% of
imported peach-faced conures died in tran-
sit and quarantine; the death rate for
imported orange-chinned parakeets was
even higher—80%. Meanwhile the import
of wild birds into the US continues on its
giddy upward spiral. Last year was an all-
time record.

 

Attenborough testimony, continued

that far transcends the merely practical.
They and the other creatures that live with
them, together with the landscape they
inhabit, are part of the natural treasures of
this great country, part of the birthright of
its citizens. They are a source of scientiﬁc
wealth as well of aesthetic delight. To
destroy them and to eliminate their habi—
tat is to inﬂict a major robbery on the
people of this country and the genera-
tions that follow, a robbery that can never
be restored or made good. Once a species
is extinct, it is lost forever. How extra-
ordinary it would seem should the citi-
zens and government of this great country
decide that every single corner of it must
be surrendered to man’s use, that no part

 

How extraordinary it would seem
should the citizens and government
of this great country decide that
every single corner of it must be
surrendered to man’s use, that no
part of it should be allowed to
survive as home for creatures which
can live nowhere else.

 

of it should be allowed to survive as home
for creatures which can live nowhere else,
if men—who can live anywhere and are
the most ingenious exploiters the world
has seen—should decide to lay a claim.

Every time I visit New York and go to
the American Museum of Natural History,
I read on the marble walls of the entrance
hall, in letters of bronze a foot high, sen-
tences that could have come from the lips
of the most ardent and vigorous conserva-
tionist alive today: “. . . The nation behaves
well if it treats its natural resources as
assets which it must turn over to the next
generation increased and not impaired in
value. . . ”

Those words were, in fact, spoken about
a hundred years ago by Theodore Roose-
velt. They are a reminder to me that this
country, the United States, has always

8

been a leader in the conservation move-
ment. It was here that the concept of the
National Parks was ﬁrst recognized and
here that they were ﬁrst created. It was
here that the ethics of conservation were
ﬁrst formulated. And now, today, it is
here that the rest of the world looks for
leadership in conservation matters.

The Endangered Species Act is a coura-
geous national statement that Americans
care about their magniﬁcent land and its
wealth of living resources. And it clearly
acknowledges the United States’ intema-
tional standing in these matters. The Act
allows experts from US government agen-
cies to give advice and training to conser-
vationists from overseas. As human popu-
lations grow and the ecological crisis
spreads and intensiﬁes throughout the
world, that help and expertise have never
been more sorely needed. It makes the
United States a party to the Convention
on International Trade in Endangered
Species of Wild Flora and Fauna—CITES
for short— the strongest legal means avail-
able to the world community to protect
wildlife that is traded internationally.

It also commits this country to the Con-
vention on Nature Protection and Wild-
life Preservation in the Western Hemi-
sphere. This convention was set up largely
because many animals are no respecters
of national boundaries, but migrate from
one country to another; it is little use to
protect them in Louisiana and North
Dakota if their wintering grounds are far
to the south in Latin America—and vice-
versa.

But the global signiﬁcance of the Endan-
gered Species Act goes far beyond these
international agreements. What the United
States, the recognized world leader of
conservation does, is carefully watched—
and duplicated by many other nations as
best they can. If this country were sud-
denly to lessen its commitment to the wel-
fare and survival of its wildlife, what hope
would other less wealthy countries have of
persuading their government and their
people to conserve and protect, particu-
larly when pressing short—term decisions
to spend money and allocate land are

much harder to take there than they are
here.

The Act, excellent though it is, has not,
however—as I understand it—achieved
here what its original supporters hoped it
would when it was ﬁrst adopted. Twelve
years of administering it have shown, not
surprisingly, that there are some aspects
that ought to be improved. Adding spe-

 

“. . . The nation behaves well if it
treats its natural resources as assets
which it must turn over to the next

generation increased and not
impaired in value. . . ”
—Theod0re Roosevelt

 

cies to the list of those protected is taking
so long that in some instances species
have diminished to danger point or even
vanished entirely before they could be
given legal protection. Plants, even now,
do not get as effective safeguards as ani—
mals. Marine species also need more pro-
tection.

I do not doubt that someone will dem-
onstrate conclusively that such changes
would cost money. I am aware that the
United States is struggling with huge bud—
get deﬁcits—though I doubt that the econ-
omic climate is as harsh as it is in my coun-
try. Everyone knows that your farrners are
suffering, that your commercial ﬁsher-
men are beset with problems, that your
poor are dispirited.

Yet as you sort out your spending prior-
ities and your economy regains momen-
tum, you will be able to help such people
to regain their economic productivity and
independence. But if help and protection
is taken away from your endangered wild-
life—there could be no recovery. Extinc-
tion is a one—way process. I speak for con-
servationists everywhere in asking you to
do everything in your power to renew and
strengthen the Act that has been an inspir-
ation to people the world over. All the
inhabitants of the living planet will thank
you for it.

 

 




 

 

Sri Lanka protects its whales . . . .

President junius Richard Jayewardene,
Sri Lanka’s Head of State, is very keen
that whales in the Indian Ocean border-
ing Sri Lanka should be protected. He
has issued an order to this effect to our
National Aquatic Research Agency.

The order followed the President’s
visit to the eastern port of Trincomalee—
one of the ﬁnest natural harbors in the
world and 200 miles from Colombo—
to see blue whales. He and his party, a
team of North American and European
naturalists and a Sri Lankan marine biol-
ogist, were thrilled when they saw a school
of these giant creatures, 60 to 70 feet
long, blowing fountains in the sea. The
President said he had seen one of the
most beautiful sights of his life, nature
at its ﬁnest.

President] ayewardene later asked his
Minister of Fisheries, Mr. Festus Perera,
to ensure that no human predators en-
croached on the preserve of these
mammals and that they should be per-
mitted to live and play in Trincomalee
waters free from harm.

Commenting on the President’s inter-
est in the whales Sri Lanka’s leading Eng-
lish language paper The Daily News wrote
editorially: “Clearly the whales had
touched the President’s imagination as
much as they had that of many of his
countrymen and women. That was why
he took the ﬁrst available opportunity to
look at them. The whales must surely be

glad that the ﬁrst citizen of this land is.
taking a personal interst in ensuring
that no whalers and other blubber
hunters come here with their harpoons,
radar and other lethal weapons.”

According to the National Aquatic
Research Agency many species of whale
are found around Trincomalee. As well
as the spectacular blue whales, there are
humpbacks, Bryde’s and toothed whales,
including sperms. Sri Lanka is now
thinking of organizing whale-watching
expeditions for tourists. Recently a visit-
ing marine biologist observed that the
whales of Trincomalee were a potential
goldmine.

With its Buddhist tradition of refrain-
ing from harming animals, many people
in the country favor whale-watching
cruises while coming down heavily on
the bloody and sinful exercise of whal-
ing. Showing these magniﬁcent crea-
tures to visiting tourists would be one
way in which Sri Lanka could help in
whale conservation.

It is interesting to note that before the
discovery of this rich whale population
off Trincomalee, the National Aquatic
Research Agency quoted a group of sci-
entists as saying there were whales in Sri
Lanka’s northern waters off the Gulf of
Mannar. However the whale popula-
tions at Trincomalee are probably larger
and are certainly more accessible.

joe Segera

. . . . but what about its dolphins?

A World Wildlife Fund research team
has reported that Sri Lankan ﬁshermen
are slaughtering dolphins. Occasionally
the animals may be killed for food but
this cannot be the reason for deliberate
wholesale drownings in the huge nets
used by today’s ﬁshermen. Here the
killing motive is the removal—as the
ﬁshermen see it— of a rival consumer of

ﬁsh.

The research team seeks government
help in tackling this problem but warns
that forceful intervention would be like—
ly just to anger the ﬁshermen and so
make matters still worse for the dol-
phins. The team counsels a cooperative
approach that enlists the ﬁshermen’s

aid.

Can sea lions save
swimmers in distress?

Two young California sea lions are
being trained to see if they will make
good rescuers of swimmers in distress.
Sea lions can surge through the waves at
30 mph which is a whole lot faster than
the fastest human lifeguard. The hope is
that they can be taught to tow people to
shore or to carry lifebuoys to them.

But at Long Beach, California, chief
lifeguard Bruce Baird is skeptical about
the scheme. He says: “If you were
someone from Ohio and you were in
the water having trouble and a sea lion
approached you. . .well, it would re-
quire a whole lot more public educa-
tion.” But maybe Mr. Baird is just
nervous for his job?

  

Credit: wwr

 

Sea lzons on the beach.

Killer—whale capture
permit is cancelled

Back in November 1983 the National
Marine Fisheries Service issued Sea World
wildlife park of San Diego with a permit
to capture 100 killer whales along the
Alaskan coast. The ostensible purpose
was to assess the ecological impact on
killer-whale families and food chains.
Thereafter 90 of the 100 captives were to
be released and 10 retained for display
in San Diego and other Sea World parks.

However opposition from Alaskan
citizens was such that Sea World biolo-
gists did not attempt to make use of
their permit. They were also awaiting
the outcome of a lawsuit brought by
environmentalists contesting the per-
mit’s validity. In January this year the
case was heard in Anchorage and a US
District Court judge ruled that NMFS
had erred in giving permission for the
capture because Sea World had sub-
mitted no proper environmental im-
pact study.

The permit was therefore cancelled.
Sea World, it seems, will have to make do
with the killer whales it caught many
years ago in Icelandic waters.

 




 

 

 

 

jane Goodall speaks her mind on animal research

Without question the world’s foremost
authority on chimpanzees isjane Good-
all. She has spent a quarter of a century
and half her life in a remote part of
Tanzania studying the loves and hates,
the virtues and vices, the triumphs and
disasters of chimps in the wild. This is
no straightforward task. For “each chim-
panzee has as much of a personality as
every human.”

Last year she was the winner of the
Getty Prize—awarded for outstanding
services to conservation. At a National
Press Club lunch in her honor last fall
she answered a host of questions on var-
ious issues. Her harshest words were re-
served for animal research. . . .

“First and of primary concern we
should spend as much money as it takes
to try and ﬁnd substitutes for animals in

Too many chimps
die from neglect

Although chimpanzees are our closest liv-
ing relatives, so close that biochemical
analysis shows only the smallest degree of
variation between Pan troglydytes and Homo
sapiens, and although there are so few
chimps left that the prices they fetch are
growing astronomically, still they are
dying for lack of adequate supervision of
their care and housing. Last December
ﬁve chimpanzees belonging to an animal
trainer succumbed to a ﬁre in an animal
shed heated by a kerosene heater which
exploded. All 20 chimps were unconscious
when ﬁreﬁghters removed them from the
building. (The 15 survivors included a 45-
year-old female, the original “Cheetah” in
Tarzan movies withjohnny Weissmueller.)
But animal trainers are not the only
guilty ones. In September 1983 six chim-
panzees at the Laboratory for Experimen-
tal Medicine and Surgery in Primates
(LEMSIP) in Tuxedo, New York, died
owing to a faulty heating system. In a
permit application to import additional
chimps from The Netherlands, the re-

scientiﬁc and medical research. Second
we should try to eliminate more than
half of the painful experiments done on
captive animals.

“Third, if it is really necessary in
studying some aspect of disease that is
going to give tremendous alleviation of
suffering to many many humans, then it
probably is justiﬁed to use a chim-
panzee. But if we do that, we should
spend as much money as it takes to
house that creature in really good con-
ditions and give him the best possible
life we can while he’s serving humanity
in this way.

“He hasn’t asked to do it. He has no
say in it. I have the horrible feeling
when looking at some of these labora—
tories that here we have in essence a
concentration camp where creatures

quired description of mortalities during
the preceding ﬁve years showed 29 deaths,
only eight of which were related to experi-
mental studies.

LEMSIP chimps fared even worse in
1979 when the National Institutes of Health
approved a low bid for hepatitis research
and sent LEMSIP chimps by truck to the
Southwest Foundation. On arrival, the
weary drivers neglected to inform South—
west Foundation that they had unloaded
the chimps, and the animals, already
stressed by their long journey, were not

 

Chimpanzees are among the most intelligent and
playful animals.

are shut in with nobody to speak for
them. They are subjected to one painful
experiment after another. There is no
hope for them. N 0 way of escape at all.”

fed or watered over the weekend, result-
ing in several deaths.

The acquisition of chimpanzees from
the wild by an Austrian pharmaceutical
ﬁrm, Immuno, has led to a lawsuit in which
the ﬁrm is seeking $3 million in punitive
damages from each of three publications:
a scientiﬁc journal, an activist newsletter
and a British scientiﬁc news magazine—
respectively: The Journal of Medical Prima-
tology, The International Primate Protection
League Newsletter, and New Scientist.

Massachusetts set to follow New York

,The ﬁne example set by the state of ’
7 New York in prohibiting the sale of .
int-bird’s caught in the w11d could soon

 

Albert Schweitzer Summer Fellows

Congratulations to the Catholic University
of America 1n Washington, DC— —or more
speciﬁcally to the University’s Center for
Advanced Training in Cell and Molecular Biology.
For the Center is responsible for a novel
scheme with tremendous potential for the
training of biomedical scientists in alterna-
tive research technologies.

Each summer two University juniors are
selected as Albert Schweitzer Summer Fel-

lows and invited to spend 9-10 weeks at the
Center. There they receive intensive ground-
ing in in vitro toxicology and tissue culture.

The Center is now emerging as the leading
institution for short—term training of this
kind. And it is surely a happy touch to attach
the Schweitzer name to a venture whose pri-
mary aim is to relieve animal suffering. The
Albert Schweitzer Fellowship contributed
funds for the project.

 

cage bird »,:trade_-,.s.g,

wild populatiOns, sometimes to the
brink of extinction, caused by the
:the {bill deserves;

    
 
   

munotbea daymoswn

Royal College ﬁned
for cruelty

In February Britain’s Royal College of Surgeons
was found guilty of causing needless suffer-
ing to a laboratory monkey, a 10-year—old
female macaque. The college was ﬁned£250
—about $300.

The case was brought following a raid last
August on the college’s research center by
animal rights activists. They discovered that
poor ventilation had caused temperatures in
the cages to rise to as much as 92 degrees.

The female macaque was found severely
dehydrated.

 

 

 

 




 

 

Flying foxes face extinction, need help

Australia’s ﬂying foxes face possible extinc-
tion if action is not quickly taken to stop
their killing. Despite loud protests from
environmentalists, the Australian govern-
ment has still not issued a moratorium on
the slaughter of these endangered bats.

The ﬂying fox population has rapidly
declined since last year, when the govern-
ment of Queensland, under pressure from
the fruit growers’ lobby, removed four spe-
Cies from the protected fauna list. Often
misconstrued as pests who rob orchards of
their cultivated fruit, ﬂying foxes actually
feed mainly on blossoms. In fact they play
such a critical role in the pollination of Aus-
tralia’s forests that their destruction would
pose a serious threat to many valuable trees
there.

Flying foxes are particularly vulnerable
because they prefer to roost in large groups
and usually choose conspicuous locations,

 

making them easy targets for anyone with a
gun. Recent persecution has forced them to
abandon their traditional sites along tropi-
cal coasts and many have wandered inland
where they have died of starvation.

These remarkable animals have been the
victims of misunderstanding and prejudice
for many years. Their removal from the pro-
tected list is senseless, especially since under
the previous legislation, fruit growers could
obtain permission to rid themselves of
troublesome bats. Thanks to widespread
publicity on their plight, much pressure has
been put on the Minister for Parks and Wild-
life, who has ﬁnally asked for a full report.

Please write, brieﬂy outlining the facts
and requesting action, to the Honorable
P.R. McKechnie, Minister for Tourism,
National Parks, Sport and the Arts, Parlia-
ment House, Alice Street, Brisbane 4000
Queensland, Australia.

There will be more Bhopals—unless. . . .

The world was shocked by the Bhopal dis-
aster in India last year. But according to the
journal Ecoforum the villain of the piece was
not so much the company immediately re-
sponsible (as multinationals go Union Carbide
has a fairly good record for plant safety) nor
even the product that did the damage
(methyl isocyanate is no more dangerous
than many other chemicals in every-day use)
but the excessive and undisciplined recourse
to chemicals by third world farmers—egged
on, of course, by none—too-scrupulous “ﬁrst
world” salesmen.

As Ecoforum puts it: “The real problem is
that there is a disproportionate emphasis on
the safe handling of such products, dispro-
portionate because the alternatives to this
growing over-reliance on, in particular, agro-
chemicals, are virtually submerged in the

 
 
  

Animal Welfare Institute

  

Scientiﬁc Committee

Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D.
Bennett Derby, M.D.

F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D.
Roger Payne, Ph.D.
Samuel Peacock, M.D.
John Walsh, M.D.

Staff

Patrick Allen, Editorial Consultant

Cynthia A. Bank, Executive Assistant
Elizabeth E. Cory, Publications Coordinator
Jessie Despard,Administrative Assistant

International Committee

Aline S. de Aluja D.V.M. —- Mexico

T.G. Antikas,, D.V.M. — Greece
Ambassador Tabarak Husain — Bangladesh
Angela King — United Kingdom

Simon Muchiru — Kenya

David Ricardo — Canada

Godofredo Stutzin -— Chile

N .E. Wernberg — Denmark

sea of hard sell of commercial chemical
pitchmen.”

The alternatives referred to are the eco-
logical pest—control methods, employing
nature to control nature—as in the use of
frogs rather than pesticides to stop insects
ravaging the rice crops (see article All trade in
frogs’ legs should be banned, page 12). The US
Ofﬁce of Technology Assessment says that
this approach could cut the use of pesti—
cides by up to 75% on some crops and
reduce crop losses by 50%.

With 1000 new chemicals coming on the
market every year, many of them highly
toxic and needing very careful and sophisti-
cated handling, there will assuredly be more
Bhopals—unless sense and nature are al—
lowed to prevail.

Officers

Diane Halverson, Research Associate
for livestock and poultry

Lynne Hutchison, Whale Campaign Secretary

Cathy Liss, Research Associate

Christine Stevens, President
Cynthia Wilson, Vice President
Marjorie Cooke, Secretary
Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer

 

A fruit bat
mother with §
. :3
baby. This .2
species inhabits E
Gambia. _.3
"3
G

Tigers butchered

One Sunday morning last October more
than 1000 people gathered in a small village
in Taiwan. They were there to witness the
killing of a caged tiger by six butchers. Some
of them had also come to buy select por-
tions of the carcass—meat, bone or bottled
blood, all much prized for boosting virility
and curing all manner of ills.

Nor was this a once-only “performance”.
At least ﬁve other tigers have been similarly
despatched by a Taiwan businessman who
intends slaughtering still more of the tigers
he owns. He claims his tigresses give birth to
two cubs each year and that older animals
must therefore be butchered to reduce the
costs of upkeep.

However, it is plain that the prime reason
for the butchery is proﬁt. The owner admits
that from each slaughtered tiger he nets
NT$80,000—ab0ut US$2300.

Taiwan has no laws at all protecting wild—
life. The government is being pressed by the
country’s Ecological Preservation Association to
remedy this deﬁciency—urged on by,
among others, an American couple living
in Taiwan who have been outraged by these
killings. To gain local backing they hung a
large banner from the window of their 5th
ﬂoor apartment in Taipei. In big bold letter-
ing in both English and Chinese it read: “Save
Taiwan Tigers!”

     

Directors

John Beary, M.D.
Madeleine Bemelmans
Gerard Bertrand Ph.D.
Marjorie Cooke
Christabel Gough
David 0. Hill

Sue Hunt

Freebom G. Jewett, Jr.
Christine Stevens
Aileen Train

Cynthia Wilson

        
      
      
        
           
     
       
     
     

Nell Naughton, Mail Order Secretary
Greta Nilsson, Wildlife Consultant
Adele Schoepperle, Assistant Treasurer
Louise Wright, Research Assistant

     
      
 

  
 

ll

 




 

All trade in frogs’ legs should be banned

Gourmets in western countries have a new taste thrill to titillate their jaded palates.
Frogs’ legs are now the in delicacy—in fashion, in quantity, in the supermarkets. And
where do all these neatly packaged limbs, torn from the bodies of some 200 million
frogs a year, come from? From the damp, low-lying areas of India, Bangladesh and
Malaysia where the frog’s mighty appetite for insects does much to protect crops

from the ravages of pests. Or used to.

In 1959 India exported just 93 tons of
frogs’ legs. By 1978 this figure had risen to a
massive 3570 tons—the equivalent of
10,700 tons of live frogs. Since frogs eat
almost their own weight of insects every
single day of their lives, the subtraction of
such an astronomical number of frogs from
the ecological equation has had severe re—
percussions in the rice paddies and the
coconut gardens. Crop pests have multiplied
unchecked and harvests have suffered grie—
vously.

The economic equation is thus also badly
askew. just how badly is shown by the fact
that while India’s revenue from the export
of frogs’ legs is around $7 million a year, the
annual bill for pesticides imported to do the
work of the butchered frogs is about $17
million. Nor of course are pesticides, at
more than twice the cost, half as efficient or
as safe as the frogs they replace. Dangerous-
ly toxic, unselectively destructive, biologi-
cally persistent, pesticides can create more
ills than they cure.

Formerly the world’s chief exporter of
dismembered frogs, India has now yielded
this unlovely position to Bangladesh. For
the slaughter in India has been on a scale
that even this huge sub-continent has been

unable to sustain. And with the slump in
frog populations, both people and cattle
have been hit by a devastating increase in
malaria, encephalitis and other waterborne
diseases carried by insects.

Nor are health hazards confined to the
exporting countries. The slaughter process
is so unhygienic that the ﬁnal product, how-
ever enticingly packaged, may be quite unfit
for human consumption. Indeed the United
States temporarily banned the import of
frogs’ legs after they were found to be the
source of salmonella poisoning.

Last but certainly not least is the issue of
cruelty. After capture the frogs are dropped
into a sack (“gunny-bag”) and taken to a
collecting center; many die on the journey.
Of the survivors, some are skinned alive (the
leather makes watchstraps and purses) but
the majority are sliced in two by being thrust
against a fixed knife. The writhing torsos are
then tossed into a heap to die—and amphi—
bians do not die quickly. In theory the frogs
are first anaesthetized in a 10% salt solu—
tion. In fact, though, salt water is a severe
irritant which simply paralyzes the frog.

All in all this is not a pretty story. The
trade in frogs’ legs should be banned forth—
with. And this time permanently.

 

 

redit: Schweizer Tierschutz

Unique robin gains
unique honor

\
The black robins’ future no longer looks so
black—thanks to Old Blue.

An ageing female black robin called Old
Blue has made history. Her death has been
commemorated by a government announce-
ment. No government anywhere has ever
before bestowed such an honor on a bird.

Old Blue lived and died in the Chatham
Islands, sea-girt pimples of rock and sand
which are, you might think, strictly for the
birds. Uninhabited by man they are over
500 miles from the parent mainland, New
Zealand. Why on earth should the passing of
a robin in these remote, unpeopled islands
be the occasion of a solemn statement by the
New Zealand government to parliament?

The answer is that Old Blue devoted her
life, singlemindedly and almost singlehand-
edly, to hauling back from the brink of ex—
tinction an entire species. In 1980 the world
population of the black robin was confined
to just one of the Chatham Islands and
numbered in all just five birds—with just
one breeding pair amongst them. The female
half of this pair was Old Blue (so called
because of her blue leg-band), already at
nine-years-old way past her prime.

At this critical stage, however, Old Blue
was given a little help by her male friends.
The five surviving robins were (with difﬁ-

culty) caught and taken to a more suitable
island where a novel egg-boosting plot was

hatched.

Over the next four years, by transferring
black robin eggs to the nests of Chatham
Island tits and using the latter as foster
parents, the robins were persuaded to lay
two, and in the case of Old Blue, three
clutches of eggs each season instead of one.
In the 1983-84 season the population more
than doubled—from nine to 20.

And during this season—so strengthen-
ing a belief that threatened species some-
how sense that extraordinary efforts are
called for—four 3-egg clutches were recorded
(no 3-egg clutch had ever been known before)
and one robin defied the rule that females
do not mate till their second year by success—
fully doing so at 11 months.

Sadly Old Blue is no more. But of the 19
robins now alive she is mother of six and
grandmother of 1 1. Thanks to her the black
robin now lives on two of the Chatham Is-
lands and its future no longer looks black.

Credit: D. Cemmick, New Zealand Wildlife

Service

 




THE

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

. QUARTERLY

 

PO BOX 3650

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20007

SUMMER 1985

VOL. 34 NO.2

 

Senate Majority Leader Dole: “Decrease Pain”

Senator Robert Dole (R—KS) and Repre-
sentative George E. Brown, Jr. (D-CA)
have introduced companion bills to
amend the federal Animal Welfare Act
for the purpose of improving the care
and treatment of animals used for ex—
periments and tests.

In introducing the bills, both Senator
Dole and Congressman Brown spoke of
the desirability of developing alterna-
tive methods which do not use animals
or which reduce the numbers of ani-
mals used and reduce the pain they
experience. Senator Dole emphasized
the need to ensure that “everything that
is reasonably possible is being done to
decrease the pain that animals suffer
during experimentation and testing.”

PROVISIONS OF THE BILLS

The bills establish an institutional
Animal Committee in each research
facility, including a member not affili-
ated with the institution responsible for
representing society’s concerns for the
welfare of the animal subjects. The
committee is required to conduct semi-
annual inspections and notify the insti-
tution and federal authorities of viola-
tions. If an institution fails to correct
violations, federal agencies are directed
to suspend or revoke funding. The
Veterinary Inspectors of the US Depart-
ment of Agriculture must inspect at
least once a year, with follow—up visits
until violations are corrected. Federal
agencies using animals will also be in-
spected by USDA veterinarians.

The bills establish an Information
Service at the National Agricultural
Library to work in conjunction with the
National Library of Medicine to pro-
vide information on improved methods
of experimentation. This service will
focus on reducing or replacing animal
use, minimizing pain and distress, and
preventing unintentional or otherwise
unnecessary duplication of experi-
ments or tests.

Research facilities will be required to
provide instruction to all personnel
involved with experimental animals.

The bills increase the penalty for a
violation from up to $1,000 to up to
$2,500. Each mistreated animal may
count as an individual violation.

The bills require that a veterinarian
be consulted in the planning of any
experiment which could cause pain;
require the use of anesthesia when para-
lyzing drugs are employed; mandate
pre— and post—surgical care and the use
of pain-relieving drugs to minimize
pain and distress. Such drugs or euthan-
asia may not be unnecessarily withheld
from suffering animals. The bills rule
against repeated unrelated operative
procedures on a single animal. They
provide for exercise for laboratory dogs
and require institutions to inform per—
sonnel to report violations of the
Animal Welfare Act.

Secretary of Transportation, Elizabeth Dole, chose “Leader, ”
a dog in need of a home, to give to her husband, Senator
Dole, when he was elected Majority Leader.

 

The wildlife trade war

Parties to the Convention on International
Trade in Endangered Species now number
89. The list includes all the major developed
countries—overwhelmingly the chief im-
porters of wildlife and wildlife products—
plus a majority of those developing countries
where the (surviving) populations of com-
mercially sought—after wildlife live. This is
good. No international convention can hope
to be effective while certain significant na—
tions refuse to take part.

Effectiveness, though, is not simply a
matter of numbers. CITES is a trade con-
vention whose primary aim is to prevent
international commerce in wildlife and its
products from posing a threat to species. It
is‘ thus a conservation treaty and one of the
most—probably the most—important in the
conservationist’s armory.

In short CITES came into existence to
decide whether a species can or cannot be
safely traded. And by and large those coun—
tries which came into CITES in its early days
saw it in this light and did their darndest to
promote the treaty’s avowed aim.

Since then CITES has come a long way.
Increasingly it is now only by belonging to
this club that nations can ensure a market
for their own CITES—listed wildlife and its
products or access to the wildlife and pro-
ducts of other nations. And of course only
by belonging can a nation hope to inﬂuence
the development of the treaty including,
crucially, alterations to the Appendices, the
lists of species for which either no inter—
national trade or else only a strictly moni—
tored trade is allowed.

With this accretion in numerical strength,
though, has come a certain dilution of pur—
pose. At the 5th meeting of the Parties which
took place in Buenos Aires on 22 April to 3
May, seasoned campaigners detected a much
stronger polarization than hitherto between
protectors and exploiters, between those
members who judged the various issues by
the light of the conservation rule—book and
those whose uppermost concern was to “legit-
imize” exploitation.

A case in point was the ﬁerce debate over
the North American population of the gyr-
falcon. This population, as recent “stings”

continued on page 7

$1.
a
E
V
S
m
§
§

 

 

 




Alternative methods
1n tox1c1ty

In Vitro methods in toxicology

A four-day intensive course with supple-
mental laboratory exercises will be held
October 29-November 1, 1985 in East
Brunswick, NJ.

The Course, designed for toxicologists,
microbiologists, regulatory affairs person-
nel, pharmacists, pharmacologists and
chemists, will cover in vitro methods of
toxicology and developmental biology that
have proceeded from the research level to
certain stages of validation.

A “hands-on” laboratory at the Gibraltar
Institute for Research and Training on the
second day includes performance by the
participants of l) the basic Ames mutagen-
icity test and e. 6012' DNA-repair test, 2) Cell

 

Britain Now Updating
(At Last!) Its 1876
Cruelty to Animals Act

The UK’s Cruelty to Animals Act dates from
1876. But even in Britain things change in
the end. Proposed new legislation, which
should become law next year, was pub-
lished in May and given a qualified welcome
by most welfare groups.

The amended Act will introduce a “dual
licensing” system. Licences to animal exper-
imenters will be less readily granted and
more strictly drawn up; and for the first time
individual laboratory projects will also re-
quire a Home Office license. Applicants will
have to show that their projects make no
unnecessary use of animals and are both
worthwhile and properly designed.

The new controls will pay greater atten—
tion to pain and will increase the penalties for
law—breaking. There will also be a new “ani-
mal procedures” body to oversee the work-
ings of the Act and to advise the Home Sec-
retary.

The London Times editorialized: “The most
important changes proposed include a wider
controlling concept than that of pain (the

term adopted in 1876 and already broad}
interpreted) taking in distress, disc
impairment of health or well-being,
ity and death. The severity of any p
procedure will be judged in thatl
graded accordingly.

“To the personal licence and registration of
premises already required for scientific ex.
perimentation on animals will be added a
projeCt licence which will stipulate in each
case the degree of severity to be permitted
according to the nature and importance of
the project and the skills of the licensed ex.-
perimenter. It is hoped by that means to have
in all cases the severity of the treatment of the
animals in balance with the worth ofthe object
for which they are being made use of.

“The new project licences mean a practi-
tioner must satisfy the inspectorate as to the
what, how and why of his intended experi-
ment. It also provides a mechanism for the
discontinuance of particular procedures if
they are judged no longer appropriate or
necessary. The Draize eye irritancy test and
the Lethal Doses” toxicity test are two rou-
tine procedures of dubious status which
should now be phased out. The abandon-
ment ofother routine procedures involving
animals has to await the development ofsat-
isfactory alternative non-sentient tests.”

Omfort,
morbid.
articular
ight and

D - .
WELD

‘ V.

l TH"

~ th‘r ms 3th

\~ - “N a : J'Am'g'

\j “‘9"

culture (Hep-2 malignant and W/—38 human
diploid fibroblasts) techniques for cytotox—
icity of devices, drugs and cosmetics, 3)
chick embryo chorioallantoic dropped
membrane technique, and 4) a review work-
station in aseptic microbiological technique
and virus culture.

Fee for the four days is $980 made
payable to The Center for Professional Ad-
vancement, P.O. Box 964, East Brunswick,
NJ 08816-0964. Registrations may be made
by phone: 201- 238—1600.

\.
\

 

Copyright, 1 985 USA TODAY. Reprinted with permission

2 By David Seavey, USA TODAY

 

 




radl

fort}:
‘bid~
:ular
and

m of

3d a
:ach
tted
e of

lave
f the
bject

acti-
the

ten-

ts if
r or
1nd
ou-
ich
0n-
ing
sat-

Copyright, 1985 USA TODAY. Reprinted with permission

 

 

NIH fails to deliver

The National Institutes of Health is touting
its new policy on care and use of laboratory
animals by the scientiﬁc institutions it funds
with billions of dollars of taxpayers’ money
each year. Lost in this self-congratulatory
exercise is the fact that the proposed policy, on
which public comment was invited a year
ago, was more protective of animals than
that which has ﬁnally emerged. Notable
omissions from the ﬁnal version which were
in the proposed policy include:

“The care and use of animals as set forth
in applications and proposals must be re-
viewed at a convened meeting of at least a
majority of the full membership of the ARC
[the institution’s Animal Research Com-
mittee] and must be approved by a majority
of the full membership whenever a research
activity would:

“1. include the use of non-routine or
harmful invasive procedures; or

“2. include prolonged restraint; or

“3. require the use of animals that have a
serious natural or experimental disease and
which would be maintained in that state for
an extended period of time; or

“4. propose methods of euthanasia that
differ from those recommended by the
American Veterinary Medical Association
(AVMA) Panel on Euthanasia; or

“5. involve any animal procedure or use
which is stipulated by the ARC or by OPRR
[Ofﬁce for Protection from Research Risks]
as requiring ARC review and approval.”

The proposed policy stated, in part: “The
scientist in charge of the experiment must
be prepared to terminate it whenever he/ she
believes that its continuation may result in
unnecessary injury or suffering to the ani-
mals.” This provision was watered down in
the ﬁnal version which also omits the require-
ment for advance approval and eliminates
the sentence with which the proposed policy
ended: “In any event, such waivers will be
granted only in exceptional circumstances.”
It no longer states that the institution seek-
ing funds must “accept[s] as mandatory the
Principles for the Care and Use of Labora-
tory Animals (Principles)”, and the word
“approximate” qualiﬁes the requirement to
identify the number of animals to be used.

The new policy is more speciﬁc with

regard to the Institutional Committee than
that which it supplants, and no change was
made from the proposal. However, it lacks
the essential provision contained in the bills
proposed by Senator Robert Dole (R-KS)
and Congressman George E. Brown,jr. (D-
CA) for the outside member of the Com-
mittee to represent society’s 'concems for the
welfare of the animal subjects.

Accreditation by the American Associa-

tion for the Accreditation of Laboratory
Animal Care (AAALAC) remains as the sole
requirement for an institution to achieve
Category I status: a guarantee against site
visits by NIH.

The small improvements in the new poli-

cy are overshadowed by failure to come to
grips with the basic problems.

 

Audio-Visual
Education on
Animals in
Research

On behalf of the British Universities Film
and Video Council, the Universities Federa-
tion for Animal Welfare has prepared a 40-
page catalogue of ﬁlms and video tapes
dealing with research on animals. Some are
straightforward teaching ﬁlms, some are
records of research and some are ﬁlms
prepared by groups concerned with the
welfare of experimental animals.

A paper published by the Home Ofﬁce,
the agency which enforces the British Act
regulating animal experiments, states that
“ﬁlmed material should be used whenever
possible” as this “may often permit the
further use of animals to be avoided.”

The paper further states that teaching
demonstrations of painful procedures on
living animals should be permitted only “if
their objective cannot be achieved by com-
parably effective audio—visual or any other
suitable methods.”

The UFAW catalogue includes distribu-
tors’ addresses and phone numbers and is
available from the British Universities Film
and Video Council, 55 Greek Street, Lon-
don Wl or direct from UFAW.

 

 

Standards in Laboratory Animal Management

Proceedings of a symposium
organized by the Laboratory
Animal Science Association (LASA)
and the Universities Federation for
Animal Welfare (UFAW). Published
by UFAW, 1984. 280 pp.

Available from UFAW, 8 Hamilton

Close, Potters Bar, Herts ENG 3QD.

U.K.

Some of the ideas put forward at
the symposium are being
investigated. For example, the
Home Ofﬁce is funding UFAW to
undertake a project on stocking
density in rat cages based partly on
Monica Lawlor’s paper, some illus-
trations for which are reproduced
here.

The main non-controversial con-
clusions have been incorporated
into the relevant sections of the
Royal Society/UFAW Guidelines for
the guidance of laboratory animal
keepers and users holding licences
from the Home Ofﬁce.

The book is intended to stimulate
others to study the needs and
preferences of laboratory animals.

Female rat in normal orienting stance
(impossible in cage 14 cm high)

Figure 3

 

 

 

CAGETOP '
14cm
i CAGEBASE
. V v“ ﬁg“

 

(impossible in cage 14 cm high)

Figure 4
Male rat standing

  

 

14cm

1 CAGE TOP

 

7 CAGE BASE -

Figure 5
Rat eating
(possible in cage 14 cm high)

 

140m

 

I CAGE TOP

  

 

 

Credit: Monica Lawlor

 




 

   

Credit: Denise Mar’e Luko

-' in)“ x I 3' i

This Whalin Wall faces the ocea
able to see it, too.

Up the Whaling Wall!

Here is an educational venture with a differ-
ence—a big difference! Life-size whale
murals painted by marine artist Wyland
now adorn large walls in Honolulu, Seattle,
California and British Columbia. Known as
Whaling Walls these “gifts from the heart” are
dedicated to the Great Whale. Wyland gives
his time for free; commercial sponsors con—
tribute materials.

So far there are six Whaling Walls. The
goal is 100. Wyland has teamed up with the
International Sea Shepherd Conservation
Society and together they hope to ﬁnd well-
wishers in japan, Norway and Iceland with
walls to donate. For in this way, as they say
themselves, they can “strike into the heart of
the whaling nations with more force than an
exploding harpoon.”

If you have a wall, write Scott Triming-
ham, Sea Shepherd Conservation Society,
P.O Box 70005, Redondo Beach, CA 90277.

n. The artist speculates that a

   

 

t "'

“spy hopping” humpback whale just might b

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Killing whales should be a part of history—a
thing of the past. (The picture is of a whales’ tomb.)

  

This magnetic theory
lacks force

A new theory as to why whales beach
themselves is now in fashion. It holds
that whales navigate along geomag-
netic “highways” and that beachings
occur where magnetic signals are con-
fusing. One man who hotly disputes
this theory, at least with regard to beach—
ings, is New Zealand’s Frank Robson
who over many years has established a
highly successful technique for rescuing
stranded whales.

Robson insists (on the basis of plenty
of evidence) that “herd-stranding” is a

consequence of the immensely strong

social bond that unites the members of
a herd. The bond is so powerful that it
will even override the survival instinct.
The stranding or beaching is likely to be
the work of just one member of the
herd.

For whatever reason this particular
whale becomes set on the act of self-
beaching, the others follow—either right
on to the beach or else close inshore.
They will not leave until all distress calls
from the beached whales have ceased.

The solution to the problem—as
Robson has demonstrated time and
again—is to turn the whales (at high
tide) whereupon the great majority will
then either join the free-swimming herd
or form one if none exists. The initial
trouble-maker is likely to insist on stay-
ing put and one or two others may now
be too weak to swim.

These few whales may have to be
humanely put down in order to sever
the social bond that keeps the main
herd so perilously close to shore. Once
this is done the rescue has been com-
pleted. The herd swims off into the
deep and does not return.

Robson’s theory seems to hold water——
for the very good reason that it works.
But the magnetic theory, if true, would
render all rescue attempts futile. For if
magnetic force were the driving force
that beaches whales, then however
skilled and conscientious their human
helpers, the whales would surely persist
in their self-destructive actions. Which,
happily, they don’t.

____—

CORRECTION: F. C. Wood writes: “the
beluga is not ‘unique among cetaceans
in being able to turn its neck freely.”
The narwhal also has unfused cervical
vertebrae and so, too, do. . . ﬁve dol-
phins.” Among them is the boutu, a
ﬁver dolphin inhabiting the Amazon.




Photo: Garard Martin, I C BP

 

   

    

       

.,. .‘ ,,..
, ,1. : ,- .Iu .
.5 “"m "av

Above: T falcons wait to be

loosed on their prey.

 
 

left: A princely party gets ready for the day’s kill.

Arab falconers ﬂout the law with impunity

AWI has learned from a traveler just
back from Pakistan that the Houbara
bustard, after being wiped out in the
Arabian peninsula, is now in the pro-
cess of being hunted to extinction in its
last remaining stronghold. Arab princes
invariably accompanied by a huge en—
tourage, have moved into the province
of Baluchistan to loose their well—trained
falcons on the ill—starred bustards. Over
5000 were slain last year; at this rate
Virtually all will be gone in another two
years.

The slaughter is illegal but Pakistan’s
Foreign Ministry turn a blind eye to it
because of the country’s dependence
on Arab aid. An article in Arab News,
puts it this way: “The ruler of the United
Arab Emirates recently showed his ap-
preciation to Pakistan authorities, who
had waived a 5-year ban on hunting
bustards for those of sufficient means,
by building a $4 million hospital near
Karachi.”

Pointing up the contrast of present-
day falconry with that of the “old Bed—
ouins who used to rely on the game
their falcons caught to supplement their
meager diet,” the article goes on: “Now
Arab princes venture forth in caravans
of 60 or 70 four—wheel-drive vehicles,
with 100 or more falcons ready to scour
the countryside. Huge trucks carry all
the comforts of home, mobile kitchens,
communications equipment, genera—

tors, air-conditioners, portable guest—
houses. . . . Prized falcons—female
shakers with perfect plumage and color-
ing, large breasts, sharp eyes, big nos—
trils, 22 inches from shoulder to tail—
fetch up to $50,000 with maybe aToyota
thrown in.”

Paul Goriup, co-chairman of the In-
ternational Council for Bird Preserva-
tion’s specialist group on bustards, says
that last year 25 parties or more from
Saudi Arabia, Qatar, the United Arab

Emirates and Bahrain were roaming
Pakistan in search of bustards. Yet just
one year previously, 1983, over 60 con—
servation experts from 12 countries had
met in Pakistan to review the situation
and had unanimously called for a 5-
year ban on all hunting. The authorities
agreed and the ban was imposed. In
theory, that is. In practice it would not
seem to have made any difference
whatever.

 

Anlmals as
1nd1v1duals

Professor Alexei Yablokov, a marine biolo-
gist at the Koltzov Institute of Developmen-
tal Biology of the USSR Academy of Sciences
in Moscow, heads an important study of
micro evolution. The work of Professor
Yablokov and his group is of particular
interest to everyone who is concerned with
the welfare of individual animals since the
careful scientific scrutiny of many individ-
uals has led to the ability to differentiate
each one and also to follow relationships
among groups.

A map of the entire Soviet Union mounted
on one ofthe walls ofthe Institute shows the
study locations of a lizard common through-
out this enormous area. Dr. Yablokov is
interested in the tiny but measurable dif-
ferences and changes in these creatures, and
his studies do not require killing. At the

same time, studies of the skulls of dolphins
already dead (thousands of these were col-
lected when the massive kill occurred in the
purse seine tuna ﬁshery prior to enactment
of the Marine Mammal Protection Act) have
demonstrated the differences in bone struc-
ture of each dolphin’s head. This work has
been carried on by Yablokov’s colleagues
through US/Soviet scientific cooperation.

Great progress has been made in identi-
fying family relationships as well as differen-
tiation of each individual. Expression of
concern for a whole species while dis-
missing the individual animal as unimpor—
tant has become a contemporary scientific
cliche. The work of the Yablokov laboratory
is significant in pointing up the importance
of the individual and the significance of
small populations within a species or sub-
species. Gross generalizations may be con-
venient, but they are not truly scientific, and
they militate against needed concern for in—
dividual animals.

  

  
 
 




 

Savage mistreatment and high

mortality in transit

Delegates to the CITES Conference received two publications sponsored by A WI. In] ury,
Damage to Health and Cruel Treatment is the fruits of a 5-year study by the
Environmental Investigation Agency. It catalogues the shocking failure of animal shippers and
carriers to ensure, as required by CITES, the humane treatment of their charges while in transit.
Importation of Birds into the United States deals with the horriﬁc death rate in transit
of birds coming into this country and destined (if they get that far) for the cage bird trade. (Its
author is A WI consultant, Greta Nilsson—who also wrote The Bird Business. She attended
the CITES meeting in Argentina and here reports on the reaction of the Parties to the grave

issues raised by these two documents.

The cruel treatment of wildlife entering
the pet and laboratory animal trades was a
focus of the recent CITES meeting in
Buenos Aires. In the past ﬁve years alone,
193,733 birds arrived dead at United States
ports. Addressing the Conference on the
“intolerable” mortality in the wild animal
trade, Nick Carter, Environmental Inves-
tigation Agency researcher, said: “Our
evidence shows that most problems with
shipments originate with the traders, not
the airlines. These violations are as com-
mon among developed as underdevel-
oped countries.”

Thanks to the forceful and persuasive
arguments of Mateo]. Magamos de Mello,
head of the Uruguayan delegation, and
Eddie Brewer, eloquent representative of

The Gambia, a resolution was passed
encouraging Parties to adopt the Interna-
tional Air Transport Association (IATA)
guidelines for animal transport and re-
questing a report for the next CITES
Conference on action stemming from the
Environmental Investigation Agency con-
clusions.

Although the EIA researchers found
fault with some of the IATA guidelines—
which give speciﬁc advice on the crating
and shipping of wild animals—they had
no doubt that compliance by wildlife ex—
porters would save the lives of thousands
of animals each year.

IATA has 110 member airlines but few
of them require that the guidelines be
used in animal shipments. Not being a
law-enforcement body, IATA can only
encourage countries to adopt the guide-
lines as a part of their domestic legislation.
To date 15 countries have enacted the
requisite legislation but only a few of
them enforce it. The United Kingdom has
the strictest and best enforced law on
humane shipment, the Transit of Animals
Order.

CITES contains mandatory provisions
to minimize the risk of “injury, damage to
health or cruel treatment”, words which
inspired the title of the EIA report, but
sadly they are rarely heeded. Work con-
tinues, however, on the part of EIA, AWI
and the CITES Working Group on Trans-
port to improve the conditions under
which animals are shipped. An agreement
was signed between the CITES Group and
EIA to cooperate on producing regula-
tions acceptable both to IATA and hu-

6

mane interests.

The EIA report, the AWI bird importa-
tion study, and other relevant research,
may also persuade IATA to include a list
of animals which do not survive well in
captivity and which therefore should not
be traded. A suspension of all wildlife
trade due to non-compliance with the
terms of CITES was suggested at the
Buenos Aires meeting by Nick Carter and
will be embodied in a formal proposal at
the next Conference of the Parties in 1987.

URGENT NEED FOR CONTROLS

In 1976, at the ﬁrst CITES meeting, it
was resolved that countries be encouraged
to gradually restrict export of wild ani-
mals for the pet trade with the eventual
aim of conﬁning it to captive-bred ani-
mals. At that time US bird imports totalled
282,000. But by 1984 this ﬁgure had in—
creased to over 913,000. Clearly there has
been no “gradual restriction” of the pet
trade. Quite the reverse, in fact. The need
for controls by both exporting and import-
ing countries has never been greater.

In Buenos Aires a few dents were made
in the cage bird trade with the “promo-
tion” of two macaw species to Appendix I
which prohibits international trade. The
macaws in question are the scarlet and the
great green, and the proposal for upgrad—
ing them came from Costa Rica, a country
with an excellent record in protecting
wildlife. The scarlet macaw is one of the
most exploited of all parrot species and
can be sold in the US for $2000 or more
per bird. Only 350 of these colorful
macaws remain in Costa Rica, and in all of
Central America and Mexico there may
be less than 1000 left in the wild after
decades of capture for the cage bird trade.

In South America’s tropical forests the
scarlet macaw has disappeared from all
areas near human habitation and survives
only in remote regions. The great green
macaw is a very rare species that has also
declined throughout its Central and South
American range because of habitat destruc-
tion and capture for the pet trade. The
Appendix 1 listing may prove crucial to
both species, especially to the scarlet
macaw which despite nominal protection
in most of the lands it inhabits is still
subject to widespread capture and export,
particularly to the United States.

Bolivian cage bird exporters are at pre-
sent holding 300,000 wrld blI‘dS, mostly
macaws, and including scarlet macaws in
anticipation of the lifting of the country’s
one-year export ban begun in 1984. Boli—
vian dealers also reportedly plan to CXport
10,000 monkeys. The CITES Parties re-
solved, however, to refuse all shipments
from Bolivia for a period of 90 days While
that country attempts to deal with the
rampant fraud, bribery and illegal ex-
ports that have characterized its failure to
enforce CITES.

The Conference focused attention on
the fact that Argentina is now, with Boli-
via’s export ban, Latin America’s largest
bird exporter. From the AWI report on
US importation of birds it is plain that
Argentina is exporting many of the pro-
tected Brazilian birds—which Bolivia
exported prior to last year’s ban—along
with its own over—exploited wildlife. Con-
servation organizations in Argentina are
working to stOp these exports but the task
is enormous.

One cage bird dealer in Buenos Aires
has blatantly advertised protected and
endangered birds for sale including pile-
ated and red—tailed parrots (Appendixl
species), hyacinth macaws, purple-bellied
parrots and golden-capped conures (pro-
tected Brazilian birds) and protected
Mexican military macaws. This dealer
sells his birds in the Netherlands, some-
how smuggling them there from Argen—
tina; the Argentine Management Authority
for CITES claimed he had never been
granted a legal export permit.

A veterinary student from Brazil told of
illegal sales of birds there, in open deﬁ-
ance of that country’s ban on the sale of its
native birds. Brazilian dealers often blind
parrots with lighted cigarette ends to tame
them. Proﬁts from internal sales and
exports are so great that military police
were unable to stop sales a few years ago.
Bird traders burned cars and incited riots
against the police.

Other illegal exports came to light dur-
ing the Conference. Management Author-
ities of three countries—India, Panama
and Ecuador—said they had not signed
export permits for some of the birds listed
in the AWI report. AWI will send the data
on these apparently bogus CITES shlp-
ments to the countries involved.

Falconers in Arab countries, West Ger-
many and elsewhere will ﬁnd purchase of
the most coveted of birds of prey, the
gyrfalcon, more difﬁcult following the
placing of the North American populfl'
tion on Appendix I. Now the specresas
protected from commerce throughout as
range. Last year’s “sting” opefaﬂfm
mounted by the US Fish and Wildllfe
Service brought massive arrests and 1nd1Ct-
ments for illegal capture of gyrfalcons and
other raptors (see Summer 1984 Quarterly)-
The ﬁnancial incentive to would-be
smugglers is great; falconers will pay “P to
$50,000 for an Arctic gyrfalcon. A Cit-113‘
dian quota system for exports falled




Wildlife Trade War—

continued from page I

 

 

have revealed, has become a prime target
for smugglers acting for Arab falconers. On
conservation grounds the case for placing it
on Appendix I (so joining all other popula-
tions of this bird) was irresistible. And yet it
was bitterly resisted by Canada which almost
succeeded in gaining the necessary blocking
vote (one—third of those cast) to defeat the
proposal. The vote went to a recount.

In fact on several issues the margin of
victory or defeat was heart-stoppingly close.
With Canada in the van a hard core of
would-be exploiters, acting on the prin-
ciple of you-back-me-and-I’ll—back-you-
and-to—blazes-with-science (shades of the
IWC) voted as a bloc on a whole range of
quite unconnected matters.

Part of the trouble may lie with the
“exploiters’ lobby.” Representatives of the
fur and leather trades and the pet trade have
always attended CITES meetings. Their acti-
vities appear to be increasing. To expect any
gathering of the nations to eschew all poli—
ticking is to expect too much. But it would

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

     
 
 

- .- . -- \umummmm\mmmm

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Scarlet Macaw from
a hand colored
lithograph by Edward
Lear (1812-1888) in

 

The Family of Psattacidae - - - be tragic if politics were to become the
orPaTrotS Brazzltan 61661.16“ Often blznd 10077.0“ dominant factorinforming CITES decisions.
wzth Zzghted czgarettes to tame them. This has not yet happened but there is a
meits from internal sales and trend in that direction.
expmts are so great that
militmy police were unable to stop I’ostscript: Following the CITES meeting,
sales a few years ago. Bird traders Sw1tzerland took areservation on the scarlet
b (1 nd . .t d . If macaw and the ASIan bullfrogs. This means
ume cars a . Z7262 e 720 S that Switzerland will not abide by CITES
agamst the 1001166. provisions on these overexploited species.

because the demand worldwide far ex—
ceeds nature’s supply.

The CITES parties also added two spe-
cies of bullfrogs from India and Bangla-
desh to Appendix II. These frogs are
captured by the millions for the gourmet
food trade in Western Europe, the legs cut
off the still living frogs and the bodies
thrown in heaps where they may survive
for up to an hour.

The attorney for the Pet Industryjoint
Advisory Council invited one of the coun-
try’s largest wildlife importers to the Con-
ference. This importer used the occasion
to buy 1800 blue-fronted Amazon parrots
from an Argentine exporter and attempted
to sell endangered Andean deer to a zoo-
logical society.

On a personal note, I traveled after the
Conference to northwest Argentina where
I was privileged to see the graceful ﬂight
of many wild parrots in a magniﬁcent
national park. Their calls announced the
morning and the twilight as they ﬂew to
and from their feeding trees. After a year
and a half of chronicling the deaths of
these beautiful birds, it was heartening to
see some in their natural environment.
May the wild bird trade be eliminated
before too long for the sake of the birds
still ﬂying free.

 




 

AN EXCHANGE OF LETTERS

Letter to the Editor, Cage and Aviary Birds

Dear Sir:

In his Foreword to a recently published and
much publicised attack on the international
bird trade, Sir Peter Scott makes some
serious allegations. He alleges that nations
are losing “a substantial part of. . . wildlife
heritage . . . to make large profits for international
animal dealers” and that “Some species of birds
have been severely depleted in the wild through
excesses of the pet trade.”

A man of honour has an obligation to
substantiate allegations publicly made, or
publicly to withdraw them. A man of science
has a duty to produce unbiased and incon-
trovertible evidence and not to resort to the
repetition of unsubstantiated propaganda.

Perhaps then he would care to how how it
is that the trade, which is undoubtedly the
least signiﬁcant of man’s consumptive inter-
actions with wildlife, is having the effect he
alleges, and to J ustify his claim that the trade
has “severely depleted” bird species.

He might also care to consider the conse-
quences of curtailment of the trade, some-
thing he appears to favour. How would
farmers in the least affluent countries obtain
compensation for crop losses? How would
trappers and exporters in developing coun-
tries find another livelihood that does not
depend on development or other activity
injurious to the natural environment? How
else would a small part ofthe surplusses pro—
duced by bird populations be given a chance
of survival? And how is a natural resource
made more precious to a poor country by
rendering it valueless?

Yours faithfully,
John Fitzgibbon

To The Editor, Cage and Aviary Birds

Dear Sir:

In his letter published on May 4th, Mr.]ohn
Fitzgibbon criticizes a foreword that I wrote
for a report on the air transport conditions
oflive animals and birds—“Injury, Damage
to Health and Cruel Treatment”—which
was produced by the Environmental Inves-
tigation Agency.

The report summarizes the findings of a
four year study carried out in 1979-83,
during which its authors examined ship-
ment records of 1.5 million living speci—
mens of birds, primates and other animals
arriving at Heathrow, and spent a full year
visiting many of the main wildlife exporting
countries in east and west Africa, Asia,
Australia, New Zealand and the United
States to study the problems associated with
the international trade in live fauna.

The study was designed to investigate
whether the clauses of the Convention on
International Trade in Endangered Species
of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES), which

8

specify that “any living specimen will be so
handled as to minimise the risk of injury,
damage to health or cruel treatment,” were
being enforced.

The report gives details of how CITES
guidelines on shipment of live animals, as
well as the Live Animal Regulations of the
International Air Transport Association
(IATA), are rarely enforced. This results in
extensive deaths and widespread suffering
of animals involved in international trade.
In the case of some of the countries investi-
gated, many species (and particularly birds)
suffered mortality of 80-90% from the point
of capture in the wild to delivery to the
ultimate customer. Most of these deaths
occurred before the birds left their country
of origin, but a further 1 1% died in transit or
in quarantine in the UK. In the case of the
US this figure was nearly 18%.

Mr. Fitzgibbon queries my statement that
“some species of birds have been severely
depleted in the wild through excesses of the
pet trade.” Unfortunately, there are only too
many well documented examples of these
depletions, as I am sure that many of your
readers will know. Parrots and macaws in
particular have suffered. The list includes
the Australian Orange-bellied, Turquoise
and Splendid Parakeets, the Golden-shoul-
dered Parrot, the Imperial Parrot of Domin—
ica, the Red-necked, St. Vincent, St. Lucia,
Puerto Rican and Bahaman Parrots, the
Bolivian Red—fronted Macaw, the Grey-
cheeked Parakeet, the Scarlet Macaw, and
many more. Most of these species are now
listed on CITES Appendix I so that it is no
longer possible to import them legally into

   
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 

  

Credit: Sir Peter Scot if

    

this country, but they are only on this list
because their numbers have been so depleted
in the past by the pet and zoo trade.

Mr. Fitzgibbon also points out that the
live bird trade can be of benefit to people in
developing countries. This is quite true, but
it is only a very short-term benefit if up to
90% of the birds captured die before reach—
ing the customer, and when bird popula-
tions are so reduced that legal trade has to be
prohibited. The wildlife of the world faces
many threats today, mainly resulting from
the destruction of its habitat. The additional
threat posed by the excessive mortality
when wild birds are traded as pets is clearly a
terrible waste.

For your readers who wish to know more,
the report is available from the E.I.A. at 23b
Highbury Crescent, London N5, at a cost of
£5.00 including postage.

Yours faithfully,
Peter Scott

 

 

Animal Dealer
Poses As Zoo

The Costa Rican Field Office of the World
Society for the Protection of Animals pro-
vides an aviary for exotic birds confiscated
by the Ministry of Agriculture’s Wildlife
Department in enforcing Costa Rican laws
against sale of wildlife. According to a recent
WSPA release:

“Seized birds are placed in cages, ridded
of parasites, and restored to health. As they
get stronger their food is placed on higher
branches in the aviary, and eventually they
are reintroduced to wild foods. Once reha—
bilitated, the birds are released into their
native habitat.

“A WSPA investigation into the exotic—
species traffic that flows from Costa Rica to
El Salvador (on false export papers) and then
to the United States increased the demand
for space to rehabilitate contraband animals,
and WSPA provided construction materials
for an aviary at one of the national parks.

“Another of Huertas’s investigations [Ger-

ardo Huertas is field representative for
WSPA in Costa Rica] led him to the Avifauna
Zoo in La Garita. Accompanied by john
Walsh, he discovered that the zoo, affiliated
with several inﬂuential CostaRicans, was ac-
tually a front for illegal wildlife sales. ‘The
owner would show his animals, dealers
would come and buy them, and they would
be replaced,’ reports Huertas, who took a
succession of photographs to document the
turnover in animals. The zoo was raided.
jaguars and ocelots were conﬁscated, and
birds of several species, including scarlet
macaws, parrots, hawks, owls, and four rare
jaribu storks, were rehabilitated in the
WSPA aviaries and eventually released.”

 

*According to the Elsa (/apan) Newsletter of
25 March 1985, The Himihawa zoo paid a
debt by having 4 Siberian tigers, I leopard, 4
Malaysian bears and 2 Himalayan bears
killed, stuﬁed and sold. The animals are
'proteeted” under the Convention on Inter—
national Trade in Endangered Species of Wild
Fauna and Flora.

  

   

 
 




The Great Fire of Borneo must not be
allowed to recur—anywhere

A hazard to which you might suppose rainforests are more or less immune is ﬁre. Yet
in Kalrmantan In 1988 ﬁre raged unchecked for weeks, devastating an area of
tropical ramforest larger than Massachusetts and Connecticut combined.

Kalimantan, the Indonesian section
of the island of Borneo, is an isolated
and, by Indonesian standards, sparsely
populated region. By the time the sever-
ity of the ﬁre had been appreciated, it
had taken such hold that all efforts to
extinguish it failed. Only when the rains
belatedly arrived were the flames ﬁnally
doused. And only very recently have the
various causes been analyzed.

Prolonged drought was the trigger.
But Borneo has its dry seasons as well as
wet and drought is not unknown even in
rainforest regions. Why, then, on this
occasion did disaster on such a scale
ensue?

The ﬁrst point is that this was no
ordinary drought. It was the worst on
record. Over a 10-month period—dur-
ing the latter part ofwhich the forests
and even the very earth crackled and
blazed—the area had less than one-
third of its normal rainfall.

meexperts regard the retard dro ht
Kalrmantan as being themll H
work of El Nino, theSouthPa

  
  
 

  
  
  
 

 

:__'.;i5;ivincreased river silt-loads braht
b at by deﬁrrestation) Eleo’sp
‘nce‘in 1983 was smgularlytu
t, and droughtecoineidental
Jotmwas extensive overma
rsouthem Aw
.ther experts see the Kali
[at as being directlyca '
i . In their viewthemz .,
late their own climate b5 drt

      
     
     
       
 

 

   
   
 
 
 

forﬁmther mmfall
-. 9333511571088 ing 5??“

  
     
   

.There is dispute as to What caused
thrs record drought (see box) but there
18 no dispute as to why it proved so
deadly. Irresponsible logging opera-
t1Ons must bear the main blame. While
Slash-and-burn Cultivators may well

have sparked the conﬂagration, its pro-
gress through this huge region was
greatly aided by the mass of ﬂammable
litter left behind by the logging com-
panies in the course of their heedless
assault on the forest. That present-day
selective logging—despite the secon-
dary growth shoots up thereafter— strips
the forest of its natural defences against
ﬁre is shown by the welcome fact that
virgin forest areas often emerged un-
scathed, havens of green surrounded by
charred and lifeless wastes.

The world is losing its rainforests and
the species that live there at a horren—
dous rate through deliberate action.
This is criminal enough in all consci-
ence. To step up the pace of destruc-
tion through plain negligence is doubly
criminal. Logging companies every-
where must be made to behave more re-
sponsibly. Rainforest ﬁres will occur
again. But they should not be allowed to
run not again.

 

 

Coming to grips with
the grisly facts of the
bear market

Recent issues of the Quarterly have drawn
attention to the illegal killing of bears in
western states to supply an oriental
market for bears paws, claws, pelt and—
in particular—gall bladder. A report
from Traﬂic Japan (published in the
April issue of Traﬂic Bulletin, I UCN, Con-
servation Monitoring Centre, Cambridge,
England) sheds new light on this nasty
but immensely proﬁtable trade.

The Traﬂic report says: “An increase
in bear poaching in the US has been
directly linked to the South Korean
demand for bear gall blader.” And
South Koreans are prepared to pay
truly astronomical sums to acquire this
magical cure for digestive ailments. In
1983 a 180-gram gall bladder fetched
US $55,000 at public auction—or some
$8000 an ounce.

In the face of such frenetic bidding it
is not surprising that even the affluent
Japanese ﬁnd the competition too hot.

 

Japan’s own bears are being exported
live to South Korea—ostensibly to zoos
there but in fact to be slain for their gall
bladders.

The zoo “cover” is being used because
Japan as a member of CITES may not
trade in Appendix I species except in
genuine cases of captive-bred animals.
One of the two types of bear found in
Japan is the Appendix I Asiatic black
bear, the bear most favored by the gall-
bladder market. Without doubt many,
maybe all, of these live-bear exports are
Asiatic black bear; and without doubt
few, maybe none, are genuinely cap-
tive-bred.

Does this illicit trade to South Korea
mean that Japan’s home market for
bear gall bladder is going unsatisﬁed?
Far from it—thanks to another CITES-
busting operation originating in main-
land China. Japan ratiﬁed CITES in
November 1980, China in April 1981.
Yet in the four years 198 1-8 4, maybe as
many as 27,000 of China’s Asiatic black
bears were slain to supply theJapanese
gall-bladder market. It is impossible to
arrive at any precise ﬁgure because of
the lack of precision in both Japanese
and Chinese customs’ data.

At the recent meeting of the parties to
CITES, China, in an attempt to justify
the continuance of this trafﬁc, had inten-
ded to propose that the Asiatic black
bear be downlisted to Appendix II—
which does permit a limited trade
under strict scientiﬁc controls.The pro-
posal was withdrawn. The animal re-
mains on Appendix I and may not be
internationally traded.

NOTE: In April, following appeals from inter—
national conservationists, Japan passed a new law
which brings the country’s import regulations in line
with CITES. So Japanese imports of Appendix I
species should now be a thing of the past. For the
signs are that, on the issue of wildlife trade, Japan
wishes to be seen as a model of rectitude.

I ‘,
"- O
J. ' l'l‘; .
‘ .I (IV...
. ; , r

~| ”.1".

W

I

,5
:2,
./’
./

" is

n‘ ‘7‘

§

- . 2

’ A
//: . §
// 3
t _ 3
\

a
. . . .
w'.’ .; .
ezr- "'- - a"
. a
‘ .

Asiatic Black Bear

 




 

 

 

o BOOKS o

BOOKS o

BOOKS

o BOOKS O

 

A Crime Against The World: Memoirs of a
Russian Sea Captain by Vladil Lysenko,
translated by Michael Glenny. Victor Gol-
lancz, l4 Henrietta Street, London WC2.

This book is a catalogue of horrors. Victor
Lysenko was a Russian ﬁshing captain until
he defected to Sweden in 1975 and his ac-
count of life in the Soviet ﬁshing ﬂeet makes
one wonder how he stuck it so long. The
answer is that he had to leave his wife and
children behind. It is hard to know which to
feel more sorry for, Lysenko or the ﬁsh he
helped to exterminate in such vast quanti-
ties. Sea after sea, ocean after ocean, he and
the rest of the Murmansk ﬂeet ﬁshed indis-
criminately, regardless of international
agreements, ﬁshing limits, breeding grounds
and the condition of the crews.

They destroyed the ﬁsh stocks of the Bar—
ents Sea. They blocked the mouths of Nor-
wegian fjords with continuous lines ofsmall-
mesh nets, dumping two—thirds of their catch
back in the sea because they could not freeze
it, polluting the seabed with dead ﬁsh so that
herring have never been found there again.
They destroyed the herring, hake and cod
on the famous George’s Bank off North
America, taking ﬁsh full of roe, immature
ﬁsh, anything to fulﬁll their impossibly high
target quotas. Their crimes in the Far East
do not bear description.

Nothing stops the Russians except their
exhaustion of ﬁsh stocks. All their boats are
armed and armor plated. They ﬁsh in squad—
rons, defying anyone to try and stop them.
Their ﬁshermen have to fulﬁll their quotas
to earn the miserable wage they and their
families live on, often ten to a room, in ap-
pallingly built bungalows and sheds in Mur—
mansk and Archangel. Appeal against targets,
quotas, pay or conditions is impossible be-
cause they are set by the same civil servants
who “investigate” ﬂeet conditions, behavior
and policy.

The only thing that relieves the monotony
of horror is incompetence. Like every Soviet
ﬁshing vessel, Lysenko’s had a KGB ofﬁcer
on board every time it sailed and he was per-
manently drunk. Soviet captains hardly ever
send up distress signals because the loss ofa
ship has to be deducted from the crew’s
wages, but ships are always sinking because
they go out in dreadful weather and danger—
ous waters to catch their quotas.

Nobody laughs in this book. Nobody is
happy. Nobody likes or believes in what
they are doing. But the destruction goes on
because nobody inside the Soviet Union
knows how to stop it. It would have been
interesting to know what Lysenko thinks
people outside the Soviet Union could do to
try and save what is left of the world’s ﬁsh.
He gives the impression that nothing can be
done; it is too late; it is hopeless, like ﬁshing
in the wake of the Soviet ﬂeet.

Having read this book my opinion is sud-
denly clear and I will not hesitate to voice it.

10

The book is well named and is vital reading
for anyone who cares at all about the seas
and the life they contain.

Teresa McLean is a journalist and broadcaster
on religious aﬂairs. She is also the author of
Mediaeval English Gardens and The English
at Play, both published by Viking Press.

 

Dr. Wildlife, the Crusade of a Northwoods
Veterinarian by Rory C. Foster, D.V.M.
Franklin Watts; New York and London:
1985.

Dr. Foster made it his mission in life to
treat sick or injured animals and release
them when they were sufﬁciently well to
return to their own environment. Some
animals were hit by cars, or injured in
other ways, and a common practice was
to “put them out of their misery” by
killing them without thought of the possi-
bility of treating them. Fortunately there
were those who brought them to Dr.
Foster.

Here then, we have accounts of Faline,

an injured fawn, who had lost her mother
and then been hit by a car and left on the
road. Dr. Foster treated her for a frac—
tured femur and some head injuries. She
was bottle fed and given vitamins by his
wife, Linda. When she was quite well she
was released to the wild.

A seagull with a cancerous growth was
treated; an owl was treated for some
severe injuries—and then ﬂew away of his
own accord.

Bald eagles are endangered, their popu-
lation in Wisconsin being only in the
hundreds. One which had been caught in
a steel jaw trap was brought to Dr. Foster,
who did his beSt for her, feeding her ﬁsh
by hand, and when she was strong
enough, he arranged for her to be ﬂown
to the Raptor Center, where Dr. Duke
and Dr. Pat Redig specialize in the care of
injured eagles. This had an unusually
happy ending, for after six weeks of
skilled veterinary treatment, she could be
released to the wild.

Rabbits, bears, and an albino deer
named Snowﬂake are other patients: this
is a book for all lovers of wildlife.

——Hugh Gough

 

Nature First

Second Nature is a handsome book, 233 pages
long, with photographs, colored reproduc-
tions and essays by such writers as john
Berger, Ronald Blythe,john Fowles and the
book’s editor, Richard Mabey, In the
broadest sense its theme is ecological: man’s
relationship to nature. Yet the contributors
are writers and artists; people concerned to
express in their normal activity (and in the
work especially presented for this book)
different aspects of the idea that our rela-
tionship with the land and with the natural
world is a vital part of our imaginative,
cultural and social life. It is then an anthol-
ogy in which forty-two independent writers
and artists speak, in words and images, of
their personal feelings about nature and the
land which for each one of them is both a
matter of concern and a subject of their
work.

This in itself is deeply refreshing. F or if in
the past man’s place in the natural scheme of
things had been a central concern of main—
stream writing and painting—think, for
example, of Wordsworth, Turner, Gerard
Manley Hopkins, Samuel Palmer, and the
inﬁnitely rich and varied contribution each
made to our perception of ‘nature’—today
the debate, such as it is, has been comman-
deered by scientists, disastrously narrowing
the terms of the argument so that the com-
plex emotional and richly symbolic roles
which the countryside and nature still hold
for us, belong, more often than not, to the
debased territory of ‘sentimentality.’ Our

affection for place, our sympathy towards
other living beings, our respect for our rural
history, are now regarded as a devalued
currency. And yet, asjohn Fowles says in his
perceptive contribution ‘The Blinded Eye,’
“science may understand what nature re-
quires of man. Of that, poets like Words-
worth and Keats knew more in the tips of
their little ﬁngers than all the biologists in
creation.” . . . .

So Second Nature has been published. Its
aim: to re-open the traditional cultural de—
bate, with a group of writers and artists (who
have already demonstrated their concern
about these issues) exploring the idea that
our relationship with the land and with
other organisms, is a Vital part of our imagi-
native and social life.

The visual material, accompanying the
text, is no less varied. We have two of john
Blackmore’s marvellous photographs of
wind—tossed trees and others by Richard
Long, Paul Hill, james Ravilious and john
Hilliard; there are also reproductions of
paintings by john Hubbard and of sculp—
ture by Henry Moore who has undoubtedly
contributed a new Vision to our perception
of humankind and nature.

Second Nature is a celebration. It is uneven,
quirky, occasionally inspired, continuously
stimulating.

Available from Common Ground, 45 Shelton St,
London WC2H 9H], United Kingdom.

 

Reprinted from Resurgence, May/June 1985.

 




 

Coke leaves a sour
taste

Rodeos are not high on the list of favorite
sports amongst those who care for animals.
Remaining perched on the back of a buck-
ing bronco may call for considerable skill
and courage but there are a myriad ways in
which a man may test himself without at the
same time brutally maltreating an animal.

For the Coca-Cola company to sponsor
something called The Prorodeo Winner’s Circle
which last year boosted prizes at no less than
31 rodeos is nothing short of shameful. The
vaunted competitive spirit which drives
these rodeos is not one that encourages
scrupulous regard for the welfare of the
animals concerned. On the contrary they
have but one of two painful choices: to be
tortured until they submit or to be tortured
until they can rid themselves of the yanking
and tugging cow—puncher astride them.
Either way, there is then the next time and
the next . . . .

Sometimes the animals are injured. Al—
ways they are hurt and terrorized. Rodeos

 
 

Credit: The Rapid City Journal

“We believe our commitment with sponsored rodeos continues that spirit of competition to which we are com—
mitted throughout our buszness system. ” —Extract from a letter from Coca-Cola Consumer Infor-

mation Center.

are brutal in themselves and brutalizing to
their audience, among whom are a great
many youngsters. Is this the “image” which
Coca-Cola wishes to purvey?

To get the answer ﬁrst hand, try writing to
Patricia Martin, Consumer Information Co-

ordinator, Coca-Cola USA, PO Drawer 1784,
Atlanta, Georgia 30301. Oh, and don’t
forget to mark your letter “Spirit of Compe-
tition Department.”

Who’s for a coke? Not me, thank you very
much all the same.

 

 

Desertiflcation is
cruel to animals too

The process by which huge sections of the
earth are being turned into deserts is pro-
ceeding at ever quickening rates. The hor-
rendous suffering ofthe peoples ofEthiopia
have been brought home to us—though even
now the calamity is attributed to an Act of
God rather than an act of man.

But animals too are sufferers. Their homes,
the food and water they relied on, are wiped
out by human over—exploitation of the land
whether by cutting down all the trees,
putting too many animals out to graze, or
over—cultivation. This destruction of the
earth increases by leaps and bounds every
year.

A fact sheet issued by the United Nations

Environment Programme includes the fol-
lowing:

“Desertification threatens 35% of the
earth’s land surface and 20% of its popula-
tion, some 850 million people. 75% of this
area and 60% of the population are already
affected.

“60% of the world’s arid, semi-arid and
adjacent sub-humid tropics is already af-
fected, and between a quarter and a half
severely so.

“The cost of loss of productivity due to
desertiﬁcation stands at $26 billion annu-
ally.”

Desertiﬁcation is a prime example of in-
advertent cruelty to people and animals on a
massive scale. Apathy, inertia, greed and
ignorance combine to destroy millions of
acres of land forever. If enlightened self-
interest is incapable of halting the spread of
this scourge, perhaps outrage at the suf-

fering inﬂicted can bring home to govern—
ments and multi—national corporations their
obligation to act.

     

 

Photo: FAO

The Sahel region of Africa is suffering both drought
and misdirected foreign aid.

 

 

 

Animal Welfare Institute

Scientiﬁc Committee
Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D.
Bennett Derby, M.D.

F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D.
Roger Payne, Ph.D.
Samuel Peacock, M.D.
john Walsh, M.D.

 

Staff

Patrick Allen, Editorial Consultant
Cynthia A. Bank, Executive Assistant
JeSSIe Despard, Administrative Assistant

 

International Committee

Aline S. de Aluja D.V.M. — Mexico

T.G. Antikas, D.V.M. — Greece
Ambassador Tabarak Husain — Bangladesh
Angela King — United Kingdom

Simon Muchiru — Kenya

David Ricardo — Canada

Godofredo Stutzin — Chile

N.E. Wernberg — Denmark

Ofﬁcers

Diane Halverson, Research Associate
for livestock and poultry

Lynne Hutchison, Whale Campaign Secretary

Cathy Liss, Research Associate

Christine Stevens, President
Cynthia Wilson, Vice President
Marjorie Cooke, Secretary
Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer

Directors

John Beary, M.D.
Madeleine Bemelmans
Gerard Bertrand, Ph.D.
Marjorie Cooke
Christabel Gough
David 0. Hill

Sue Hunt

Freeborn G. jewett, jr.
Christine Stevens w
Aileen Train
Cynthia Wilson

Nell Naughton, Mail Order Secretary
Greta Nilsson, Wildlife Consultant
Adele Schoepperle, Assistant Treasurer
Rosario Teran, Clerical Assistant
Louise Wright, Research Assistant

 

 

 

 

 

 

ll

 




This 30-page report byjennifer Gibson and
Dave Currey provides the ﬁrst thoroughly
documented account of an activity which
apparently has been going on since the
Vikings landed on the Faroe Islands hun-
dreds of years ago. The records date back to
1584.

The whale meat is distributed free, but the
Faroe Islanders have a standard of living
which compares favorably with western
European nations. Pilot whaling has long
ceased to be an aboriginal hunt, yet the
report states, “Up to 3,000 whales are indis-
criminately killed each year, more than the
total number of other whales killed in both
the North and South Atlantic combined.”

The report describes the kill as follows:
“As the whales approach the shore, the
animal at the rear of the pod is stabbed
behind the dorsal fin with a spear, causing it
to swim in its agony through the pod
towards the beach. The other whales will fol-
low, beaching themselves in the shallow
water. The hooks are then sunk into the
whales’ heads and used to drag them up the
beach by those working from the shore. A
cut is made into the whale’s spinal marrow
through the blubber and flesh, a hands-
breadth behind the blowhole with the knife.
This cut causes the whale to thrash violently
and break its own spinal cord.”

In addition to the killing of pilot whales,
endangered fin whales are killed by Faroese
whalers under a “scientific permit” issued
by Denmark. However, the science is so in—
ferior that the Sea Mammal Research Unit in
Cambridge, UK. refused to participate
when requested to do so. According to the
Environmental Investigation Agency report,
“The procedure adopted in the Faroes is a
mockery of scientific survey.”

Copies of the report may be obtained
from the Environmental Investigation
Agency, 23b Highbury Crescent, London
N5 IRX, England. Price: $20 postpaid.

Contributions to the Animal Welfare
Institute are deductible in computing
income tax returns, and donations, large
or small, are most gratefully accepted
for the general fund or for special pur—
poses. Bequests to the Institute will help
guarantee the continuance ofits 30 years
of work to protect animals. Please re-
member the Institute in your Will.

The Board of Directors suggests the
following language for use in Wills when
making a bequest to the Animal Welfare
Institute: “I give to the Animal Welfare
Institute the sum of dollars”
(or if other property, describe the prop—
erty).

Better than a battery cage

BANTAM HENS HATCH BALD EAGLE EGGS

To increase the number of bald eagle
eggs hatched in captivity, scientists at
the Patuxent Wildlife Research Center
are using bantam chickens to incubate
the eggs. Eggs incubated by the hens
hatch more often than those placed in

artiﬁcal incubators. In 1984 the hens
helped produce a record 18 eaglets at
the research center. For the third year
running the Du Pont company has
helped fund the program—this year to
the tune of $50,000.

Europe’s spring massacres continue

Greece greets its spring visitors with hail of
bullets ran the headline to an article in
the Spring 1984 Quarterly, detailing the
murderous manner in which some
250,000 Greek “sportsmen” celebrate
the return of migratory birds, journey-
ing (so they fondly imagine) to their
breeding grounds in northern Europe.
Sadly we have to report that the head-
line could have remained unaltered this
year. And what is true of Greece is no
less true of France and Italy, those other
blood—red offenders against EEC regu-
lations, conservation principles and
elementary ethics.

It is four years now since an EEC
Directive forbidding the shooting of
migratory birds came into force.
Theoretically this is binding on all
members of the European Economic
Community. But in none of the three
countries named above has the situa-
tion altered except for the worse.

This year Greece openly permitted a
hunting season from 13 April to 12
May. In Italy the government continues
to plead impotence in the face of re—
gional refusal to comply with the law of

the land (now in line with the EEC
ruling). And as if to underline this point,
in Sicily and southern Italy, where the
carnage is greatest violence is not infre-
quent against those brave enough to
oppose the legions of hunters (the nation
“boasts” 1,620,000 of them).

In France the government, under
strong pressure from international bod-
ies and after being taken to court by
French conservationists last December,
belatedly prohibited the spring shoot—
ing of turtle doves this year. But it is
unlikely this edict did much to silence
the guns.

This spring, as every spring, hun-
dreds of millions of migratory birds,
most of them small songsters but includ-
ing huge numbers of rare raptors and
other hard-pressed species, will have
been butchered for “fun.” Meanwhile
there is concern in northern Europe
that springs are becoming more silent.
And there is some anger against the
trigger—crazy perpetrators of this sea-

sonal madness and the governments

that turn a blind eye to it.

Credit: Du Pont Company

 




THE

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

QUARTERLY

 

PO BOX 3650

U.S. Appeals Court
upholds sanctions
against japan

The international whaling industry was dealt
a series of blows over the summer by U.S.
federal courts and by the International
Whaling Commission.

In August, the U.S. Court of Appeals for
the District ofColumbia upheld lastwinter’s
U.S. District court ruling that the bilateral
deal between the Reagan Administration and
japan was illegal. Heavy economic sanctions
againstjapan’s fishing industry for its viola—
tion ofthe sperm whaling ban are mandatory
under the Pelly and Packwood—Magnuson
amendments, the appellate court ruled.

“It is imperative to remember that the
Legislative Branch, by explicit constitu—
tional provision, has the power to regulate
foreign commerce,” wrote judges j. Skelly
Wright and Edward A. Tamm in the major-
ity opinion. “And since thejudiciary’s role is
to declare what the law is when Congress has
acted, we must perform that duty even in
this delicate context.”

The Administration andjapanese fishing
and whaling interests appealed the adverse
ruling to the full Court of Appeals, but the
Court refused to hear it. Ifthe appeals drag

continued on page 12

WASHINGTON, DC. 20007

FALL 1985 VOL. 34 NO. 3

Science fairs—a sampling of misguided experiments
by F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D.

A recent survey of science fairs provides new evidence of the widespread improper
use of animals in these elementary, junior, and high school competitions. In total,
14 local, regional, and national science fairs were visited either by volunteers or the
author during 1984—85. In all 14 fairs, deficiencies in humane standards were found.
Some typical examples are reported below.

The International Science and Engineering Fair (ISEF) is the major offender since
it sets the standards used by many although not all local and regional fairs. The ISEF
is administered by Science Service in Washington, DC. Approximately 100 projects
from the biological sciences were exhibited in the 1985 ISEF. All are prize winners
from previous local and regional fairs.

Over the 36 years of its existence, the ISEF has failed to adequately address the
issue of inhumane animal projects. Their rules permit infliction of pain, nutrition
deprivation, and administration of toxic substances. Highly traumatic procedures
on small animals are condoned.

In contrast, other competitions have established strong rules that are no impedi—
ment to the young student’s enthusiasm, but do control improper animal work.
These rules permit observational studies of vertebrate animals but prohibit those
that are in any way harmful to the animals. These rules are used nationwide in
Canadian science fairs and also in the U.S. in the prestigious Westinghouse Science

Talent Search. In my opinion, such rules should be adopted by the ISEF.

36th International Science
and Engineering Fair
Shreveport-Bossier City, Louisiana
May 12—18, 1985

Overall, in the 1985 ISEF, when verte-
brate animals were chosen for study, there
was a four out offive chance that the animals
were harmed in some way. Non-invasive
vertebrate projects were not popular. Out of
the total of 79 projects involving vertebrate
animals, 62 or 78% involved injury, pain,
physical or psychological discomfort, or

death. Only 17 or 22% did not harm the
animals.

Short shrift is given to humane projects
on vertebrates at the ISEF. Four out ofa total
of 79 projects involving vertebrates, or 5%,
had as their purpose the promotion of the
welfare of a particular animal species or
humans. A good project in this group was
conducted by an 18 year old from Black
River High School in Sullivan, Ohio, who,
during a five—month period, regularly pro-

continued on page 8

 

U.S. taking action against driftnets destroying

More than 1,600 fishing boats from japan,
Taiwan and South Korea are setting more
than 20,000 miles of gillnet each night in
the North Pacific to catch salmon, squid,
pomfret and billflsh such as marlin. These
monofllament nets, stretching up to 35
miles also entangle tens of thousands of
marine mammals and more than one million
seabirds annually.

This fishery, which developed only in the
last few years, is devastating marine life in
the rich waters north ofthe Hawaiian Islands
chain and the Aleutians. Many ofthe salmon

runs in Alaska, Canada and the Pacific
Northwest are in sharp decline because the
fish are intercepted by the high—seas drift—
net ﬁshery.

Thousands of Dall’s porpoises, North
Paciﬁc fur seals and other marine mammals
are drowning in the vast nets. U.S. scientists
estimate that 9% ofthe tufted puffins nesting
in the Aleutians are dying in the nets each
year, as well as 5% ofthe murres and untold
hundreds ofthousands ofshort-tailed shear—
waters, remarkable birds that migrate all the
way from Australia and New Zealand only to

ﬁsheries and Wildlife

die while trying to feed on the fish trapped in
the driftnets.

The foreign fisherman are also leaving a
deadly legacy in the sea with hundreds of
miles oflost and abandoned driftnets. These
fine—mesh nylon webs do not degrade and
break up in the cold waters, but sweep
through the sea like Grim Reapers, entrap-
ping everything in their way. As many as
50,000 fur seals may die in these “ghost
nets” each year.

The nearly 1,700 driftnet ships roaming

continued on page 5

 




European convention
for the protection of
vertebrate animals
used for experimental
and other scientiﬁc

purposes

The Council of Europe has completed the
Convention on Laboratory Animals that has
been more than eight years in the making.
On May 31 st it was adopted by the Commit-
tee of Ministers and now awaits ratification
by four member nations to put it in effect.

Although the final wording is less protec—
tive than had been hoped, it provides that
any nation may pass more stringent national
laws. Nations without legislation to prevent
abuses in laboratories will be encouraged by
the new convention to enact laws consonant
with its provisions.

Comprised ofeleven parts and 37 articles,
the treaty includes the following salient
points:

0 “The environmental conditions in which
animals are bred, kept or used must be
checked daily.”

0 “The well—being and state of health of
animals shall be observed sufficiently closely
and frequently to prevent pain or avoidable
suffering, distress or lasting harm.”

o “A procedure shall not be performed for
any of the purposes mentioned above, if
another scientifically satisfactory method,
not entailing the use of an animal is reason—
ably and practicably available.”

0 “Straying animals ofa domesticated spe-
cies shall not be used in procedures. A
general exemption made under the condi-
tions of paragraph 1 of this Article may not
extend to stray dogs and cats.”

0 “In order to avoid unnecessary repetition
of procedures for the purposes of satisfying
national legislation on health and safety
each Contracting Party shall, where prac-
ticable, recognize the results of procedures
carried out in the territory of another Con—

tracting Party.”

Fewer LD50 tests

A survey by the Coalition to Abolish the L050
reveals 50-100% reductions in the use of the
LD50 by a number of big drug companies.
The drop is chiefly explained by a switch to
the “limit” test which involves the use of 10—
20 rodents compared with the 40-200 ani—
mals required for the LD50.

In the cosmetics industry too there has
been a substantial switch to the limit test.
Here the decline in LD50 testing is of the
order of 75—90%. At the same time most
companies now have in-house committees
to examine the need for a proposed test and
have eliminated all testing on minor formu—
lation changes. There is also increasing use
of ingredient data banks.

2

 

SEVEN KINDS OF ALTERNATIVES

Britain’s Fund for the Replacement of A nimals in
MedicalExperiments (FRAME) has produced a
leaflet detailing seven main types of alterna—
tives to animal experiments. AWI has sup-
plies of this leaflet which is available free on
request. FRAME’s alternatives are, in sum-
mary, as follows.

1. Mathematical modeling of struc—
ture—activity relationships: Mathematical
modeling is at an early stage of develop-
ment but the explosive growth in computer
technology suggests that one day it may be
possible to test new substances, simply from
a knowledge of their structure.

2. Mathematical modelling of biochem—
ical and physiological processes: Such
models are already proving ofmedical value
and could become a powerful predictive
tool in assessing human response to a given
stimulus. Physiological models also enable
students to understand physiological func-
tions and even to apply medical treatments
to a computer model without recourse to
live animals.

3. Human studies: For chemicals in—
tended to be used in man, human studies
overcome the problem of interspecies dif-
ferences. Given adequate ethical controls
and satisfactory safeguards, such studies
could be undertaken at an earlier stage of
drug development than at present.

4. Lower organisms: Bacterial tests are

>Ii¢ﬁi<

Mathematical Modelling and Computer Graphics

 

 

 

 

now well established. Their significance is
based on the similarity ofgenetic material in
bacterial and human cells.

5. In vitro techniques: The wide range of
these techniques includes the use of cell
cultures and organ cultures. Among the ad—
vantages ofin vitro systems as against using
live organisms are: simplicity, sensitivity,
speed, cost and few complicating factors.
Although in vitro tests cannot entirely repli-
cate the reaction ofa living body, there are
good prospects that they will come to re—
place such toxicity tests as the LD50 and the
Draize.

6. Exchange of information: Duplica-
tion ofanimal experiments could be avoided
if results were freely available and if the
national regulatory agencies were to reach
international accord on the acceptance of
“foreign” data.

7. Improved design of experiments:
Much wastage of animal life occurs because
experiments are poorly designed or inade—
quately controlled. Calling in statisticians at
the design stage can increase the value of
results and reduce the use of animals.

FRAME is the retipient of the ﬁrst—ever govern—
ment grant to projects aimed at reducing the number
of animals used in experiments. The sum involved is
£200,000 ($260,000) over three years.

 

 

 

 

The Use of Lower Organisms

 

 

Researchers lose licenses

Britain’s soon-to—be-updated 1876 Cruelty to
Animals Act (see previous Quarterly, page 2)
is in its dying days showing itself to be not
entirely toothless. Hard on the heels of a
successful prosecution of the Royal College
of Surgeons for cruelty to a laboratory
monkey (see spring Quarterly, page 10) comes
news that two scientists belonging to an—
other highly prestigious body, Cambridge
University’s School of Clinical Medicine,
have had their licenses to experiment on
animals revoked.

The scientists were adjudged by the Home
Office to have infringed the 1876 Act by
their negligence towards a dog which they
had used for routine surgery. After the
operation the dog was left unattended while
“the researchers went off somewhere leav-
ing the animal in a fairly poor state. Its
condition deteriorated and they were not

around to deal with it.” The dog was later
put down.

The revoking of a license in this way is
extremely rare. The incident has caused
great concern among researchers just as
they were trying to reassure the public that
everything possible is being done for the

welfare of animals used in experiments.

 

Fewer experiments: The number of li-
censed experiments on live animals in Brit-
ain continues to fall. In 1984 it was down 4%
on the previous year and is now at the lowest
level for 25 years. More than halfthe licenses
are held by university researchers but they
perform only 22% of the experiments. Those
working for commercial companies hold
about a quarter ofthe licenses and perform
53% of the experiments.

 

 




 

 

States resist move to
protect bald eagle
from lead poisoning

Over the years lead poisoning, in the form of
spent. lead shotgun pellets, has claimed the
lives of huge numbers of waterfowl. The
birds swallow the pellets in the course of
feeding. But this problem has long been
recognized and to a limited extent correc—
tive action has been taken. Since 1976
various areas, now extending to 30 states,
have been designated as “nontoxic shot
zones.” In these areas lead shot is pro-
hibited.

There is a related problem, though, that
has had scant recognition. It concerns the
bald eagle. Eagles sometimes feed on lead-
poisoned waterfowl, thereby becoming con—
taminated themselves.

The Fish and Wildlife Service is at last
addressing this issue. Or attempting to. It
has proposed nontoxic shot zones to protect
eagles in 30 counties covering eight states.
But federal proposals of this kind cannot be
implemented without state approval—which
five of the eight states have refused to give.
They are California, Illinois, Missouri, Okla—
homa and Oregon. Those assenting are
Iowa, Kansas and South Dakota.

The Service has responded by calling up
its heavy artillery. It has announced that it
will not open waterfowl hunting on selected
areas during the 1986-87 season unless the
five recalcitrant states assent to the bald
eagle proposals.

The case was lost
but the baboon won

In an Ontario provincial court thejudge dis-
missed as “groundless” a charge of cruelty
filed against two researchers at the Univer—
sity ofWestern Ontario. The charge, brought
by the Vancouver-based group Lifeforce, cen—
tered around a female baboon, B-43, which
as part ofa cholesterol experiment had been
kept sitting bolt upright for four months.

During the 7—day trial a professor from
the university’s anthropology department
told the court that baboons, unlike humans,
have to move their muscles constantly to
stay upright. She said that this baboon’s
“severe suffering would be deemed torture”
if experienced by a human. It also emerged
that the Canadian Council on Animal Care
had a year previously requested the univer—
sity to ﬁnd other ways ofrestraining baboons
during medical research.

The university has agreed that 8—43 will
not be killed and dissected as planned, will
not be used in any further experiments and
will be placed where her social and behav-
ioral needs are met. Furthermore, no ba—
boons in the future will be subjected to pro—
longed restraint in painful postures. Liﬁzforce
professes itself satisfied.

Fur sting springs trap

Two New York fur dealers have been ar-
rested and charged with buying illegally
trapped furs. These arrests, and those of275
trappers and collectors in six states, cli—
maxed a 2—year “sting” by the Fish and
Wildlife Service and the Departments of
Natural Resources in Michigan, Minnesota
and Wisconsin. Violations included out-of-
season and over—the—limit taking by trappers
and an Endangered Species Act violation
involving the gray wolf.

Other illegally traded species included
bobcat, otter, fisher and marten.

 

Cheetah cheater

charged

Lastjune undercover agents of the Fish and
Wildlife Service and officers of the Florida
Game and Freshwater Fish Commission
seized two Cheetahs from a wildlife dealer in
Miami. He and his three partners—who
Fish and Wildlife say have not broken the
law—declare they were duped into paying
$30,000 for the two animals by a man
masquerading as a federally licensed dealer.

The latter has been charged with violating
the Lacey Act, the Endangered Species Act
and the Animal Welfare Act. Conviction
could bring a 6-year sentence and fines
totalling $40,000.

Perceptive Parrot

Lora from Altenkirchen in Westerwald, West
Germany, has good table manners. She
always eats sausage, potato salad, and ice
cream—her favorite foods—with a spoon.
She wasn’t trained to do this. On the con-
trary, she surprised her owners one day by
grasping the spoon in which rice was being
offered to her. Ever after she has eaten with a
spoon.

There is something else this blue-browed
Amazon parrot has mastered perfectly: She
imitates the sound ofeggshells being cracked
on the rim ofa frying pan. Guests imagine
an orgy of fried eggs in the kitchen.

WILD BIRD ACT SURVIVES BY A SINGLE VOTE!

New York State’s Wild Bird Act, which be-
came law last year, withstood a well—ﬁnanced
attack by the pet industry during the 1985
legislative session. The Act prohibits sale of
exotic, wild—caught birds. The pet industry
attempted to repeal it by substituting a bill
purporting to regulate the trade and mas-
querading as a humane measure.

The New York State Humane Association,
the American Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, the New York Audubon
Society, the Society for Animal Protective
Legislation, and the Humane Society of the
United States worked actively to preserve
the Wild BirdAct. Nevertheless, the Assembly
passed the pet industry bill, which was
stopped by a single vote in the Senate Com-
mittee to which it was referred.

The New York State Department of Envi—
ronmental Conservation is at work drafting
regulations to enforce the Wild Bird Act,
scheduled to go into effect November 1985.
Enforcement ofthe Act will help prevent the
severe depletion of parrots, cockatoos, tou~
cans, and other exotic birds in the wild.

Captive—bred birds of all species will con-
tinue to be available in pet shops. As a recent
New York Times article What’s New in the Pet
Business, states: “Indeed, arbiters of style
may pronounce $1000 cockatoos the ‘In’
thing this year, but $9.98 parakeets and
other small birds account for the bulk ofthe

more than $220 million which consumers
spent last year on birds and related pro-
ducts.” Wild birds should remain in their
native jungles where they belong.

In a letter requesting sterner US laws on the
import of wild birds (requesting, in other
words, more states to follow New York’s
example), Felipe Benavides, President of
Peru’s famous wildlife protection group
Prodena, said:

The death of birds during capture is a human
crime because they catch these birds in a cruel way.
They put up nets and the birds fly into them. At least
50% hang themselves in the net; of the remainder,
40% die during transport.

They also enter the nests of macaws, parrots,

falcons, etc, and take the parents out and then put

the young in the bag. 50% die in the process.

Export ﬁgures are inaccurate because most of the
oﬂicials are corrupt and accept bribes. At least one—
third of bird exports are not registered. In Latin
America it is very easy to get “Ofﬁcial Documents”
which are in fact illegal.

According to US records for 1982, 43% of birds
imported from Peru died on the journey. So for every
bird sold by the pet trade, at least 10 had died—
tahing into account broken eggs or birds too young to
take and left to die. All this happens because of a
luxury trade in the United States and Europe.

 

 




FOR DEER LIFE!

Tests on four sections of a highway in
Washington State have convincingly shown
the effectiveness of Swareflex Wildlife Reﬂectors
in reducing deer-vehicle collision rates. The
tests were conducted from mid—October to
mid—April, 1981-84.

During this period 58 deer were killed on
the four test sections; 52 of these deaths
(90%) occurred when the reflectors were
covered andjust six (10%) during the 50% of
the time when the reflectors were not cov-
ered—in other words, when they were al-
lowed to do their job. These findings have
been broadly confirmed in other parts of the
US and in Canada.

Installed at regular intervals on both sides
of the road, the Swareﬂex works by reflecting
the headlights of an oncoming car so as to
give the deer the impression of a moving
“optical warning fence.” The system is vastly
cheaper than fencing and since it is eligible
for 90% federal funding the cost to the State
is fairly minimal.

Given the scale of the problem in certain
areas—high deer mortality, injury to drivers

and costly damage to vehicles—the system
should commend itself to highway authori-
ties in many States. Details may be had from:
Strieter Corporation, 2100 18th Avenue, Rock
Island, Illinois 61201.

A poisonous decision:

Since 1972 all uses of the notorious poison,
Compound 1080, have been forbidden.
Until now, that is. Now the curiously named
Environmental Protection Agency has seen fit to
lift the ban and to allow this indiscriminate
killer to stalk the range once more.

The 1972 ban was enforced for a number
of interlocking reasons: the proven ineffec-
tiveness of 1080 in protecting sheep; the
huge toll of non-target species, including
many on the protected list; straightforward
economics—reimbursing stockmen for losses
to coyotes would have been cheaper than
(attempted) predator control by poison; the
united opposition of environmentalists in
alliance with not a few stockmen.

So surely something dramatic must have
occurred during the 13 poison-free years to
explain this dramatic reversal of policy?
Have coyotes, perhaps, been going on the
rampage, gorging themselves silly on de—
fenseless ﬂocks? No; in essence nothing has
changed. Predation on sheep has shown no
marked increase—and indeed more and
more stockmen have discovered for them-
selves that guard dogs made far better
defenders of sheep than ever 1080 did.

Admittedly, the lifting of the ban is not
total. Carcasses may not be baited with

This land is whose land?

This Land Is Your Land is the somewhat
embittered title of a book by a former
national park ranger and college professor,
Bernard Shanks. Embittered because the
public lands of America, as this book de-
pressingly demonstrates, are being steadily
and remorselessly degraded by so—called
welfare programs.

Whose welfare? Certainly not the pub—
lic’s. Says Shanks: “Under mining and min—
eral—leasing laws, national mineral resources
are transferred into the hands of a few
people with negligible benefit to the pub-
lic....Water projects obliterate fishing, wild—
life habitat, free-flowing rivers and commu—
nity resources.” But he regards the subsi-
dized overgrazing of public lands by do-
mestic animals as “the single most impor—
tant. factor” in the desertification ofmuch of
the American West.

A $4 million study by the Forest Service
and Bureau of Land Management deter-
mine the “fair market value” of allowing
ranchers to graze their cattle on public lands
to be $6.65 per head per month. But the
1985 grazing free has been set atjust $1.85,
only a few cents higher than 20 years ago
when beeffetched only halfthe price it does
now and when operating costs on the pro—
gram were substantially lower.

1080 ban lifted

1080. Its use is limited to lacing the collars of
“sacrificial” sheep—a stratagem requiring
the coyote to kill its prey by going for the
throat, piercing the collar, swallowing the
poison and then painfully dying.

But plainly even this limited use is fraught
with environmental hazards: eagles and
other scavengers will assuredly die from

.eating poisoned coyotes. The crucial point,

though, is that with 1080 back on the
market, there can be no real prospect of con—
fining its use to sheep collars as the EPA
directs. Stockmen dislike the ruling: the
collars are expensive and killing a coyote
demands losing a sheep.

Recently in Wyoming three golden eagles
were found dead near a dead sheep baited
with an outlawed poison. In the wake ofthis
incident a wildlife specialist pertinently asked:
“How do they expect to control use of 1080
in toxic collars when they are unable to
prevent use of illegal poisons?”

NB. The collars will contain enough 1080 to kill
185 coyotes or up to six adult men. The Fish and
Wildlife Service ( the primary applicant for the
collar) has estimated that the attacking coyote will
swallow just 10% of the poison. Which leaves 90%
to be swallowed by other creatures later.

 

'M‘
1:316).

 

 

 

Thanks to this hand—out to the cattle
ranchers, the government—or rather the
taxpayer—is now making an annual loss on
the grazing program of $83 million. And
this sum does not, of course, include the
incalculable cost attributable to the despoli—
ation of “your land.”

 

 

ThisJapanese forest should
not be destroyed—even to
house the US military

Green politics are beginning to bloom in
japan. In the city of Zushi on the fringe of
the densely populated Tokyo Metropolitan
Area, legions of environmental activists have
sprung up to defend the Ikego Hills, one of
the last remaining forests in the area and by
far the richest in variety of wildlife.

The forest owes its distinCtion not to any
deliberate policy of protection but to the US
navy’s adoption of the site as an ammuni—
tion depot. For several decades all intruders
have been barred and the forest has recov—
ered much of its pristine glory, becoming
the home to many rare species offauna and
flora, including 109 species of birds, many
of them theoretically protected by bilateral
treaties for the protection of migratory spe—
cies and their habitat.

This happy state of affairs is now under
grave threat, though. The navy has pulled
out and the japanese government plans to
convert a sizeable part of the forest into
housing for the US military and their fami—
lies. The citizens of Zushi first learnt of this
threat to their prized forest back in October
1982. They straightaway formed the Citizens’
Association for the Protection of Nature and Chil—
dren and, shortly afterwards, the Ikego Green
Operation Center. Petitions were organized
and allies sought, both at home and abroad.
(Some 46,000 signatures opposing the plan
were taken to Washington and presented to
the Secretary of Defense. The US authorities
said they were not insisting on the Ikego site
but merely requesting more housing.

In 1984 things hotted up when the mayor
of Zushi, formerly an opponent of the
housing plan, switched sides. In the subse—
quent mayoral election, fought almost en—
tirely on the issue of the forest, victory went
to Kiichiro Tomino, founder of the Green
Operation Center.

In March 1985 the government published
its Draft Environmental Impact Report—
which drew a withering response from Mayor
Tomino and his supporters: “While ad—
mitting that the housing plan will involve
cutting down thousands of trees, disturbing
the wildlife, bulldozing hills, filling valleys
and generally upsetting the ecosystem, it
fails to recognize the intrinsic value of the
natural environment and doesn’t consider
alternatives.”

The battle continues but the mayor has no
final right of veto. The heavy guns are, as
usual, on the side of the destroyer.

 

 

 




 

 

 

Sea-dumped debris and ghost nets are big killers

Sea creatures the world over are bom-
barded by a non-stop rain of debris as
the oceans continue to be used as a
waste bin.

The National Academy of Sciences
has estimated that the sea receives 6. 4
million tons of litter every year from
shipping. And another estimate puts
the number of plastic containers dumped
overboard by merchant ships at an
astronomical four—and-a-half million a
week.

For marine life this relentless build-
up of non-degradable garbage swilling
around in the oceans is a deadly hazard.
We are entirely ignorant of the impact
on deep-sea animals (which are having
to cope with a pile-up of refuse on the
ocean floor) but we do know that huge
numbers of seabirds, seals and turtles
are dying from swallowing plastic ob—
jects or from becoming enmeshed in
discarded ﬁshing gear.

While it is impossible for obvious rea—
sons to put precise ﬁgures on mortality,
there are some fairly reliable—and
alarming computations. just one spe—
cies of seal, the northern fur seal, ’
losing 50,000 ofits kind a year through
entanglement in net fragments. Still in
the North Paciﬁc a body count in just
one half of a free-floating 3500-meter
gillnet yielded 99 seabirds, 75 salmon,
one ragﬁsh and two salmon sharks. And
this net had been adrift (so it was estab—
lished) for probably not more than a
month: its “ghost-ﬁshing” life had only
just begun.

Preventive measures

What is being done to remedy this
dismal state of affairs? At government
level, very little. The Marine Mammal
Protection Act and the Endangered Spe-
cies Act need identiﬁcation of guilty ves-
sels and proof of mortality before charges
can be brought. And there are no feder-
al programs for cleaning up the tons of
sea-dumped litter.

However industry is beginning to stir
from its long slumber. The Society for
the Plastics Industry has established a
Plastic Recycling Foundation. Its brief
is to pursue ways of making large-scale
recycling economic. Its budget is $5
million. A drop in the ocean, you may
think—but at least it shows some aware—
ness and concern.

But while government and industry
are (at best) still in the research stage,
individual citizens can get active straight-
away. Some already have. One Saturday
last October 2100 people in Oregon

 

 

Crew members of Greenpeace vessel Raznbow Warrior rescue sea bzrds entangled zn g2]! net.

gathered along the length of the state’s
Paciﬁc coast and ﬁlled over 2400 20-
gallon garbage sacks with beach litter—
most of it Styrofoam.

Here’s a lead for other people in
other coastal states to follow. Perhaps
that includes you. But even ifyou live in
an inland state there are plenty of lakes,
rivers and ponds, halfchoked by debris,
which are sorely in need of a life-giving
spring clean. So seize the time!

' Minimum requirements to reduce
impact of marine debris ,

 

'o All ﬁshing‘gear, whether p‘riVate' or
c0mmercial, to be clearly marked
with owner’s name .

o More foreign and local ﬁshing boats

, to carry observers

No Payment for retrieved netting and
debris ,

. «- Rewards for] information leading to,
7 "conv1ction

 

U.S. taking action against driftnets, continued

the North Paciﬁc are catching hundreds of
thousands of tons of ﬁsh. In 1984, more
than 390 Japanese boats, each setting a 9-
mile net nightly, were in the salmon fleet.
japan’s squid fleet totalled about 500 ships,
with Taiwan adding 111 ships and South
Korea 100 ships in the hunt for squid, which
are frozen on board and delivered to the ﬁsh
markets in the home countries. japan and
Taiwan had about 600 other ships catching
billﬁsh, such as marlin and swordﬁsh, in
nets stretching 6 to 7 miles long.

At a US. Senate hearing on the driftnet
problem on 9 October 1985, conservation—
istsjoined with ﬁshermen to call for a ban on
the use of driftnets in any ﬁsheries in
the North Paciﬁc, whether inside or outside
the US. 200—mile zone.

Senators Ted Stevens and Frank Murkow—
ski of Alaska and Slade Gorton of Washing—
ton demanded forceful action by the State
Department and Commerce Department to
halt driftnet ﬁshing. Senator Stevens, who
chaired the hearing, decried the “maraud—
ing, murdering nets,” likening them to
AID’s in the sea.

Senator Stevens denounced thejapanese
ﬁshing industry, whose lobbyist testiﬁed
that “the japanese ﬁsheries in the North

 

Paciﬁc are responsible and well-managed
with respect to the conservation of marine
resources.” Driftnets are “a reprehensible
technology,” he stated, singling out the
foreign fleets as “the ones who are bringing
calamity and plague to the North Paciﬁc.”

Compounding the effects of driftnets on
marine life are gross violations of US and
international ﬁshing regulations by thejap—
anese, Korean and Taiwanese ﬂeets, the
senators revealed. In one flagrant case this
year, 26 japanese driftnet ships penetrated
far into a banned zone south of the Aleu-
tians. When a US. Coast Guard patrol plane
spotted the ﬁsher rustlers, it was found that
all the japanese boats had covered their
markings in order to avoid identiﬁcation.
Only through skillful sleuthing did U.S. ofﬁ-
cials discover the miscreants. In another
case, an illegaljapanese driftnetter cut loose
a 35—mile long net and fled as a Coast Guard
ship approached. That net will continue
“ghost-ﬁshing” indeﬁnitely.

A high State Department ofﬁcial testiﬁed
at the hearing that thejapanese Government
and ﬁshing industry has rebuffed two
attempts by the US. to ﬁnd a solution to the
driftnet crisis.

 

 

Photo: Mote/Greenpeace

 




 

An enriched system that enriches
the lives of both people and animals

Rooting for pigs in Mexico

We have received a most encouraging account of an experimental pig-raising
project in Mexico. It comes from the project director, Bernd Neugebauer, who
for the last seven years has been working as a consultant to GTZ, the German aid
program. His special concerns include intensive small-holder farming and

small-scale animal production.

Based on the method developed by
Alex Stolba in Edinburgh (see winter
1982/83 Quarterly) but adapted to a
tropical clime and a peasant economy,
Neugebauer’s system could proﬁtably
be applied by rural communities in
many parts of the third world.

The system is ethological in concept:
that is to say it is built around the natural
behavior and needs ofthe pig. In scale it
lies between the subsistence farming of
the peasant with his handful of free-
running free-foraging pigs and the very

large units modeled on the intensive
operations of Europe and America.
Neugebauer points out that these
opposite extremes are alike in one un-
fortunate respect: for both “scavenging
pigs and concrete boxes” disease is a
constant hazard. That intensive sys—
tems run up against this problem is of
course well known and amply docu-
mented. But why should free-running
pigs be vulnerable?
In a true agrarian society they would
be healthy enough. But experience in
Bolivia has shown that disease spreads
when village communities lose ground——
and much else besides—to commercial
trafﬁc and urban sprawl. For the pigs
must then be tied up or fenced in. This
is happening increasingly and the vets
now needed by these communities to
counter the spread of disease are for the
most part no longer there: they have been
lured away to the bright lights and
brighter prospects of the teeming cities.

While “concrete boxes” can only
exacerbate the disease problem, they
are nonetheless springing up all over
the place—so tempting are the tax ad-
vantages of intensive operations (in
Mexico units of up to 5000 pigs are tax
free) and so meagre the proﬁts of sub-
sistence pig-keeping. But of course even
with the no-tax bait, considerable capi—
tal is required to set up intensively. And
capital is what few peasant farmers
possess. So how can they be helped?

The tried-and-tested solution prof-
fered by Neugebauer is a family pen
made of local materials which may
initially house no more than four

6

sows—a number well within the means
ofa small group of pig producers com—
bining together. In Yucatan where Neu—
gebauer operated for an experimental
year, the pen consisted of a timber
frame with a thatched palm roof and
woven hurdle-like walls (see drawing).
Water was “on tap” from an elevated
water tank while food came primarily
from local plants and trees—and not
only food, the piglets teethed on the
wood so that no udder damage occurred
even during the 12 weeks of suckling.

Throughout the year the pigs were
being closely observed with a view to
improving the system where necessary.
For example, the concrete floor laid to
facilitate cleaning proved superﬂuous:
pen hygiene was not a problem because
the pigs themselves kept the nesting and
feeding areas clean, defecating only in
the corridors.

It was found that fattening and breed—
ing pigs do not need separating, that the
pen required no more space than do
conventional pens and that essentials
include good drainage, straw for the
nests (a problem in Yucatan where the
straw is always burnt in the ﬁelds), a roof
over the rooting area and fresh-cut sods

.< .

. a.

Two view

within the areas as food for newborn
piglets.

There was one other important ﬁnd-
ing—or rather a corroboration of a
ﬁnding by Alex Stolba. The pen some—
times held as many as 45 animals despite
pigs being sold young to keep numbers
within bounds. The reason for this
happy build-up was that the system
appears to accelerate the sows’ fertility
cycle: litters averaged nearly 2.5 per
year, were born spontaneously and with—
out complications although a few pig-
lets were crushed to death by the mother
sow. This average is very high by con-
ventional standards and is particularly
impressive bearing in mind the young
age of two of the sows and the limited
availability of the boar.

On the all—important issues of cost,
the peasant farmers themselves can
readily construct the pen while' the
system compares very favorably with
conventional systems on the score of
labor—though this is perhaps not a
prime consideration in countries where
labor is cheap and plentiful.

Sadly this project in Yucatan has been
discontinued for the time being be—
cause Neugebauer’s contract there has
terminated. But during its year of oper-
ation it abundantly demonstrated its
potential as a system which, with re—
gional variations, could enrich peasant
societies of the third world without dis-
ruption to their way oflife and without
hurt to the animals concerned.

Development of this kind that is in
tune with people’s basic needs and in
harmony with the workings of nature is
true “ecodevelopment”. Our world
could do with a great deal more of it.

 

 

Photo: Alex Stolba

 




  
 

/ ﬂ‘ r/My'v

~I“ ‘ ’
I I ‘I‘ A
I, - p§-.

”72¢, "

(I

/// //, //,
./ // ,, r,//’

 

//////

W333“. \
m 13, .
3‘

-~-

\\‘\

  
 

v...
‘

-
.
O...
.. . _ '
N ‘ ' I. .. .
. ‘ ,
‘\~.“\~" . . __ - l c .
'. - -'
‘I . . . ,.- . ‘;
,' ‘ . .
. . ‘0 -\ o .
5 .
g c ‘ ' .~ . . .
o . ' -
‘ LO" '
‘ C ' ‘ .
.. _ _ o '
. -5 _ '
C
c ‘. .‘
c ‘\ . .
‘ I " . - . "
‘ -:-. -. '- ' .
. _ 0 .
- _.\

////’

/
”WWW/[y l// ”/M/

7% / MI
/ WWI/r0 /7/'y’ ’/M
l ’l/
////1/r’/ /// //// I [III/l:

\\\\\‘.‘"§\

‘\\
‘5
‘ ‘

””7/ I///; 2’ ' '—

I (IX/WT ”tibia/u 4)“
' ‘ ‘ l.“ \ x
a, We? .irillliilelhs
. MM h 1”“ ll, \
. ﬁlm/l ‘l ‘l‘lllll ll
/// ’ Ix/p’ﬂ’ I’lﬂié’w“ i
h fuﬁ/jﬂ/ﬂfﬂl’n’k ’

  
   
   

    

  

' I I l4///// ' .,,, //I , / o. , \ f. 5 “

3. 7/” /// / M r in, /’/// ’ m /////;m will; '1 Wits“? “tilts
e/ M r Mir, " ”W1 V” 4“ l""”/"/l/”I/5/.«l’ll’tl‘i\ti"3li“"‘li‘l§i'iilt‘$
I.“ 1/ o .‘ H1 '3”. i. '.r_‘,s‘i.*"':.___

. -. . , ,/ ,,. r a. Wit/f." ,,, , ~ 40 iii. till? it " 3
4 , , w Irmmf/ 4’11” y!.\«.tli~r~'

”If," h i
i" ‘tu-l‘

  
      
 

The pig Family Pen built of locally available materials in Mexico

 

 

The results of a lengthy and unique piece
of research into rival methods of pig-raising
have just been published. They make most
gratifying reading. For they go far to con-
ﬁrming what animal welfarists have long
contended— that conﬁnement is not just
a rotten way of treating animals, it is an
ine icient way of making money.

Conducted by the University of Tennessee
at its Ames Plantation research center near
Grand Junction, and spanning an 8—year
period, 1976-83, the research compared,
side by side, three farrow—to—ﬁnish pork sys-
tems— pasture, partial conﬁnement and
total conﬁnement. As the accompanying
table ( see below) makes plain, various pro-
duction and ﬁnancial criteria were used to
assess the merits and demerits of each.

From the standpoint of capital invest—
ment the pasture system (farrow through
ﬁnish in open ﬁelds) naturally emerges a
clear—cut winner: around $40,000 as
against $59,000 for partial conﬁnement
(farrow in solid—ﬂoor pens, ﬁnish outside)
and a whopping $1 I 2, 000 for total con—
ﬁnement.

On energy costs, too, pasture is way
ahead: 36 cents per pig per year as against
$1.44 for partial conﬁnement and $3.18
for total conﬁnement.

Pasture also comes out best on a number

of other counts: post- weaning losses ( 6 % as
against 9% for the other two), freedom from
disease ( no incidence (y’TGE unlike the other
two) and year—by—year consistency of sow
and pig performance.

Going to the other extreme, the total con-
ﬁnement system wins comfortably on the
score of feed eﬂiciency. Conﬁnement ﬁnish-
ing out—performed pasture ﬁnishing by 40
pounds of feed per 1 00 pounds of gain. This
should be balanced, though, against the fact
that the pasture system is marginally faster
in bringing pigs to a weight of 230 pounds.

One rude surprise for conﬁnement fanci-
ers is that a breeding and gestation unit
installed during the research period failed
to improve conception rates; the conﬁnement
system here remained adrift of the other
systems.

Other drawbacks

The research shows that total conﬁne-
ment suﬂers from other grave drawbacks
too. The belief that such systems are labor—
saving turns out to be more myth than fact.
By the end of the 8—year period all three sys—
tems required about 35 man hours per sow
per year. The reason for this, in the words of
project director Ed Lidvall, is: “When con-
ﬁnement equipment is new it all works
great. But in a few years it starts needing

repairs. That eats up more labor than people
realize.

This ﬁnding may help to explain another.
The total conﬁnement system required a pre—
mium market price for its pigs in order to be
proﬁtable.

Overall it was the mid—cost partial con—

ﬁnement system that came out top. Although
experiencing more than its share of plain bad
luck, it nevertheless returned easily the high—
est net proﬁt per sow.

Lidvall admits climate may favor pasture
systems in southern states. However, he
contends they do have plenty of cold, damp
weather. And the pockets of pasture opera—
tions that still prosper in northern states
prove low—cost facilities work in cold
weather.

And for those wedded to total conﬁne—
ment? This objective and nicely controlled

piece of resea rch will give them little comfort.
Perhaps, though, it will make them think

 

 

again.
Age 56 100 140 145 156 Days
Weight 20 50 78 85 95 kg

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Table 1: Live weight gain 0f156 fattening
pigs of 4 cycles in the family pen (aCC.
Stolba 1983)

 

SucceSSful Farming, November, 1984

 

 

 




 

Science fairs—a sampling of misguided experiments, continued

vided ten severely disabled patients (who
were not expected to achieve further im-
provement through any of several types of
therapy) with “temporary” pets: some gen-
tle, small dogs and cats. At the end of this
study, therapists who worked with those
patients reported significant therapeutic gains
in all of them. This unusual project is a
model of how youngsters could be chan—
neled into a concerned attitude for others.

The concept of “alternatives” has not
reached the ISEF. There appears to be little
instruction to these youthful competitors

that it is preferable to use invertebrates
(protozoa, worms, snails, or insects) or non-
animal species (plants, fungi, or micro—
scopic organisms) for their projects. Yet
these projects are enormously valuable for
instructional purposes. Unfortunately, the
humane concepts that projects are improved
by eliminating or reducing animal harm is
not a lesson these bright youngsters will
learn at the ISEF.

The International Science and Engineer—
ing Fair is supposed to be a public exhibi—
tion of high school student talent. It is not
really public because information on the
projects is not available for public scrutiny
and public accountability. A rope surrounds
each exhibit so that no one can approach
nearer than about 10 feet. Numerous guards
patrol the area to check that no one has
access to the students’ note books which give
methodological details of procedures used.
The displays comprise only a briefsummary
which often is placed so high that it is impos—
sible to read. In many projects described
below, it is impossible to ascertain for
instance the adequacy of an anesthetic or
indeed whether an anesthetic had been
given at all for certain exceedingly painful
procedures. This heavy security may have
negative effects by suggesting to budding
scientists that animal experimentation should
be done out of public view.

The following examples are selected from
the vertebrate projects and are typical of the
highly invasive animal projects that are
rewarded by this influential fair. The abbre-
viation H.S. stands for High School.

1073 A Study ofHeat Stroke and Its Effects on
Blood Chemistry. Altamont School, Birming—
ham, Alabama.

This high school student’s project was
conducted at a university research labora-
tory. Six rats were anesthetized and each
injected with a large, discomforting volume
(20 ml) of a drug fluorocarbon into the
abdominal cavity. Six control animals did
not receive fluorocarbon. It is unclear how
long the anesthetic lasted for the injected
animals or whether anesthetic was given at
all to the control animals. All twelve animals
were heated up (by unspeciﬁed means), at
43.6°C (approximately 110°F) and then
cooled to 345°C (approximately 94°F). As a
result, all the six control rats died from heat
stroke.

8

1066 Blood Packing. Owosso H.S., Owosso,
Michigan

A cat was tranquilized by an injection of5
mg xylazine and then 50 ml of blood
removed from the neck vein. The blood was
centrifuged to pack the cells, treated with a
solution, the blood cells resuspended and
reinjected back into the cat. The experiment
was repeated “every few hours,” according
to the youngster’s report. The gums of the
cat frequently “turned grey,” an indication
that the animal went into a state of physio—
logial shock or an acute anaemic condition.

 

The concept of “alternatives” has
not reached the ISEF. There appears
to be little instruction to these
youthful competitors that it is
preferable to use invertebrates . . .
for their projects. ”

 

1044 The Evidence that the Size of Myelinated
Nerve Fibers is Affected by the Peripheral Tissue
they Innervate. Moscow H.S., Moscow, Idaho.

This high school student performed sur—
gical operations on anesthetized rats. The
tendon attaching the gastrocnemius muscle
of the left leg was severed completely and
the right leg was subjected to a “sham”
operation. The gastrocnemius is the major
muscle of the calf but without a tendon
attachment, the animal would not be able to
walk properly. In other animals, both the
tendon and the major nerve serving the leg
was cut. In a third group, the nerve alone
was cut. All animals recovered conscious-
ness and were impaired by these proce—
dures. After 4 months, all animals were
killed. The poor access to information pre—
cludes further information on these traumatic
procedures.

1072 The Eﬂects of Bee Toxin (Apis melliﬂera) on
Rheumatoid Arthritis. Fontana H.S., Carolina,
Puerto Rico.

This project in pathology was conducted
by a 16 year old. One wonders how much
normal physiology she had learned before
embarking on this highly invasive project. A
condition allegedly mimicking human rheu-
matoid arthritis was induced in rats “as
adjuvant disease,” according to the stu—
dent’s description. The animals were then
treated with injection of bee toxin—another
painful procedure. The supervising veterin-
arian checked the animals’ joints and reported
that “they felt pain.” As a result of these
studies, the animals suffered “acute and
recurring arthritis, chronic deformic (sic)
arthritis, eye lesions and progressive and
destructive joint disease and skin and sub—
cutaneous lesions.” Purportedly, this project
was approved by the local Humane Society
of Puerto Rico.

226 Toxicological Eﬂfects of Six Common Pesti-
cides on Mus musculus. South Brookland H.S.
Brookland, Arkansas, and 213 Nephrotoxicity
[toxic destruction of the kidney] of A minoglycosides.
Howard Woodward H.S., Washington, DC.

These two projects, both involving repeti-
tive demonstrations of the poisoning effects
of various chemicals, were listed in the ISEF
catalogue. Additional information on them
is not available. Severe animal suffering was
surely involved.

202 Tetrazine Yellow No. 5 as a possible agent of
Cellular Degeneration in the Liver and Kidney of
Mus BALB-C. john F. Kennedy H.S. Santa
Isabel, Puerto Rico.

This yellow dye was fed to some mice in
toxic doses for 37 days and the deleterious
effects recorded by this beginning student.
Bleeding occurred in the liver and tissue
degeneration was observed in both kidney
and liver. No new knowledge was acquired.
The animals were exceedingly sick, and the
toxic effects appeared irreversible.

1035 The Inﬂuence of Aging on the Growth of
Cancer. Nova H.S., Davie, Florida.

The project was an attempt to demon-
strate that the age of bone marrow, not the
age ofthe whole organism, is responsible for
the growth rate of cancer. These activities
took place in a research institution. Lung
cancer was induced in mice. Some of the
animals also had their thymus glands re-
moved. A large dose of 1200 R whole—body
irradiation followed which completely de—
stroyed the bone marrow. The youngster
then attempted to repair the damage by
“reconstituting” the animals with new bone
marrow. These procedures require con-
siderable skill because they can be very
painful. The long bones have to be punc—
tured and new bone marrow injected. No
information was available on how the donor
animals were treated. The conclusion was
that tumors grow slower in young mice
carrying “old” bone marrow than in old
mice bearing “young” bone marrow.

Greater Kansas City Science Fair, Missouri
April 11-13, 1984

Historically speaking, humane standards
encountered at the annual Kansas City
Science Fairs have been lax. In 1988, after
years of protests, this fair ﬁnally “upgraded”
its rules with regard to elementary school
students, grades 4-6, aged (usually) 8-10.
These children may no longer enter projects
that cause pain or death to vertebrate ani-
mals—a ruling that includes the specific
directive not to induce cancer, conduct sur-
gery or subject animals to radiation! But for
older schoolchildren there are still not such
restrictions. Considering that in 1982 the
National Academy of Sciences endorsed
policies which placed such projects off limits
even to high school students, Kansas City’s
rules lag a long way behind current humane

 




 

standards. Some of the 1984 and 1985
projectsjudged by science fair officials to be
in compliance with their rules are described
below.

SBI—6 Eﬂect of Vitamins on Cancer Growth.
Shawnee Mission South H.S. Grade: Senior.
American Cancer Society Award, Superior
Award, and Sigma XI Research Society
Award.

Cancer was induced in some hamsters.
Others that were not made cancerous served
as controls. A total of 44 hamsters were
used. All were killed by an injection of the
drug T-61.

SBI—26 Study of Cytotoxic and Immunologic
Eﬂects of C imetidine on Mus M usculus. Shawnee
Mission West H.S. Grade: Senior. Superior
Award.

After suffering what the student describes
as “periods of hip and leg paralysis [and] . . de—
cline in motion range of rear legs,” (that is,
they could not walk), at least twelve animals
died under painful conditions. The project
was conducted at school. These adverse
effects were caused by injection of the drug
cimetidine—a histamine—blocker—into groups
of mice to study the effects on the liver. In
her poorly—written description, the student
variously reports using a total of 24, 26, and
27 animals. The “dosage with lowest relative
toxicity would allow 33% survival rate as
compared with 0% survival rate for the
control group,” she said. Furthermore, all
animals died in another group that were
given a highly toxic dose of cimetidine.

SBI—I The Eﬂects of Dermally Applied Dimethyl
Sulfoxide (DMSO) on Mice. Shawnee Mission
West H.S. Grade: Senior. Excellent—First
Prize Award.

This project demonstrated the well—known
fact that if toxic drugs are given during
pregnancy, then the babies suffer. The stu—
dent’s conclusion was that ifa 50% DMSO
solution is applied at 15—25% g/kg to the skin
of pregnant animals, then some offspring
will be physically malformed. The project
was conducted at school and involved a total
of 6 adult females and males and 39 baby
animals. The data wasjudged by the student
to be inconclusive because too few animals
were used.

SBG—2 The Eﬂects of Prenatal Ethanol Expo—
sure on the Behavior ofMice. Ruskin H.S. Grade:
Senior. Excellent Award.

Pregnant animals were made to drink a
solution of 10% alcohol. A total of eighteen
adult animals were used in this project. Of
an indeterminate number of offspring, only
one survivied. The student’s conclusion was
that prenatal alcohol does affect the fetus—
an already well—established fact.

JBI—48 Raw Goats’ Milk versus Pasteurized
Cows’ Milk for Growth of Chickens. Fort Osage
junior High. Gradezjunior. Excellent, First
Place Award.

In a project conducted in the unsatisfac—
tory conditions ofa home basement, ﬁfteen

 

chickens were fed either raw goat or pas—
teurized cow milk. There was an “outbreak
of sickness” according to the student, and
the birds became “too weak to stand . . .pant-
ing” and many died. Incomprehensibly, the
student states in her report, “Since so many
chicks died, it was necessary to determine if
death gave advantage to any particular group.”

Greater Kansas City Science Fair, Missouri
April 10-12, 1985

SB] ~61 Inhibition of Neovascularization Around
Malignant Growths Using Systematically Admin—
istered Protamine Sulphate. Shawnee Mission
West H.S. Grade: Senior. Second Prize
Award.

In a project conducted partly at home,
cancer was induced in 24 mice. For several
days thereafter, the student injected the
animals with a protein called protamine
sulphate. Several animals died—apparently
from toxic effects since the student reported
that for some animals “too large a dose was
administered.” All surviving animals were
killed intentionally with ether by the student
after the cancer had developed. The animals
were variously referred to by the student as
Muss (sic) Musculus, Mus Musculous (sic)
and Mus musculus. Supervised bya medical
institution professor and the science teacher.

 

Unfortunately, the humane
concepts that projects are improved
by eliminating or reducing animal
harm is not a lesson these bright
youngsters will learn at the ISEF.

 

SBI-46 Mechanism of Action of Ascorbic Acid
and D—a-Tocapherol in Inhibition of Tumor Growth
in Mesocritetus Auratus. Shawnee Mission South
H.S. Grade: Senior. American Cancer Soci-
ety Award, and Excellent.

This project with its pretentious title in—
volved inducing cancer in hamsters. The
student’s report stated that injecting tumor
cells was “known to produce tumor regu—
larly at the sight (sic) of injection.”

SBI—30 Use of Typewriter Correction Fluid as an
Inhalant. Shawnee Mission West H.S. Grade:
Senior. Outstanding Award.

Five mice were forced to inhale typewriter
correction fluid for 15 minutes each day for
several days in order to observe possible
toxic effects. As a result, according to the
student, the animals’ food intake decreased
and their behavior changed.

SBI—56 The Growth Retardation and Lethality
by Cyclosporine—A in Neonatal Rats. Shawnee
Mission Northwest H.S. Grade: Senior. Ex—
cellent Award.

Sixty-three animals were killed for this
young student’s competition entry. Rats
were injected with a drug, Cyclosporine-A,

and euthanized two weeks later for tissue
analysis. Despite the title of this project the
drug caused neither growth retardation nor
lethality (death).

30th Regional Science and
Engineering Fair, Areas 1 8c 4
Fairfax, VA-March 17, 1985

The Eﬂect of Diet on the Behavior of Mice.
Robinson Secondary H.S., Fairfax. Grade:
1 1.

Two groups of mice were fed different
diets—either pet food or a diet consisting of
bread, milk, and lettuce. Many deaths oc—
curred— 16 animals were cannibalized and
four died from other causes. Those receiving
the pet food diet “were breeding as fast as
possible,” said the student. Significant over—
crowding appears to have occurred. There
appeared to be no separation of animals
into additional cages as more animals were
born. The student’s report states, “Ofthe 24
mice that were born, only 7 remain . . .it was
not that there was not anything to eat, it was
just not the right things to eat [for pregnant
animalsj.”

Lymphocyte Proliferation Measured by Tritiated
Thymidine (3H-TdR) Incorporation in T- {'9’ B—
Lymphocytes and Their Responses to M ethoxychlor.
Hayfield Secondary School, Alexandria.
Grade: 12.

This pretentiously entitled project involved
a poisonous substance, methoxychlor, which
was administered daily to 10 animals for
several weeks to study possible toxic effects
on blood cells. Methoxychlor is an insecti—
cide similar to DDT, but less toxic. The doses
caused tremors in the rats but all survived
and recovered.

30th Regional Science and
Engineering Fair, Areas 2 8c 3,
Fairfax, VA—March 31, 1985

11—m-1 Eﬂects of Alcohol on Learning. South-
lakes H.S., Reston. Grade: 12.

The purpose ofthis project was to demon~
strate the well-known fact that alcohol has
deleterious effects. Six mice were required
to drink alcohol for lack of pure drinking
water. They were then run through a maze.
It appears that one or more animals suffered
coma and death. The project was supervised
by a physics teacher.

The Eﬂects of Nitriﬁcation on the Respiratory Rates
of Amphiprion spp. McLean H.S., McLean.
Grade: 10.

Damsel fish were exposed to toxic levels
of various chemicals and their respiration
rate recorded. In summarizing her project,
the student states, “From these findings, I
conclude that ammonia is very toxic . . .and
nitrite is fairly toxic” to fish—already well—
established facts.

 




    

 

 

 

 

29th Montgomery County Area
Science Fair, Maryland
March 29-31, 1985
National Bureau of Standards,
Gaithersburg

Six projects were disqualiﬁed on animal
welfare grounds and refused exhibition.
Based on information available it appears
that those disqualiﬁed were more inhumane
than those displayed. The following were
judged by fair ofﬁcials to be more in com—
pliance with the rules and displayed.

JIOIO Scurvy in Guinea Pigs. Little Flower
School, Bethesda. Grade: 8
The objective of this child’s project was to
induce scurvy, a very painful pathological
condition, in guinea pigs. Scurvy is caused
by a deﬁciency ofVitamin C and is manifest
by weakness, anemia, spongy gums, bleed—
ing, painful hardening of the muscles, and
ﬁnally death. It is a well—known fact that
scurvy can be induced readily in guinea pigs
because of their inability to synthesize Vita—
min C. The project was conducted at home.
At the suggestion ofa veterinarian, guinea
pig food was heated in order to destroy the
Vitamin C. This was then fed to three test
animals. Three additional control animals
were fed a wholesome diet. After two months
ofinadequate diet, the three test guinea pigs
lost hair and failed to grow. Whereas all con-
trol animals virtually doubled their body
weight, the diseased animals showed only
16%, 25%, and 45% increase in body weight.
This project won the local school award and
was then exhibited at the county fair.

J] 315 Electric Fish. Little Flower School,
Bethesda. Grade: Elementary.

In a project ofno apparent scientiﬁc pur-
pose, an elementary school student tested
the “effect of voltage in water on goldfish.”
She found that 18 volts of electricity had no
effect on the three goldﬁsh used. This project
could potentially have harmed both the
youngster and the ﬁsh.

Connecticut Science Fair
Quinnipiac College, Hamden CT
March 11—16, 1985

In Connecticut, there is a requirement that
in grade school and science fair projects, no
vertebrate animal shall be subjected to any
procedure that causes pain or interferes with
its normal health. Nevertheless, the following
project was publicly exhibited.

30 70 The Eﬂects of Positive “G ” Forces on C ircu-
latory System ofRattus Noroegicus. Wolcott H .S.,
Wolcott. Grade: 12. First Honors Award.

The purpose of this needlessly repetitive
project was to document the adverse effects
of high gravitational forces. Rats were spun
at high speed in a laboratory centrifuge until
they became “confused and were in shock,”
according to this young student’s report.
Shock is life—threatening, notes the student.
A school ofﬁcial and local veterinarian super—
vised this project.

10

 

 

The Florida Legislature has enacted a bill
which states: “No surgery or dissection
shall be performed on any living mam-
malian vertebrate or bird. Dissection
may be performed on nonliving mam—
mals or birds secured from a recognized
source of such specimens and under
supervision of qualiﬁed instructors.
Students may be excused upon written
request of a parent or guardian.”

The new law further states: “Non—
mammalian vertebrates, excluding birds,
may be used in biological experiments,
provided that physiological harm does
not result from such experiments. Ana—
tomical studies shall only be conducted
on models which are anatomically correct
for the animal being studied or on non—
living nonmammalian vertebrates secured
and from a recognized source of such

 

Two states prohibit painful experiments
by high school students

specimens and under the supervision of
qualiﬁed instructors. Students may be
excused from such experiments upon
written request ofthe parent or guardian.”

Emily Gleockler played a leading role
in obtaining enactment ofthe legislation.
Prevention of painful experiments by
untrained youths has long been a goal
of the organizations with which she has
been associated. The Florida Federation
of Humane Societies worked actively for
the bill, as did individual organizations
throughout the state.

In New Hampshire a similar piece of
legislation sponsored by Senator William
Riley has been enacted. Important, in the
passage of the bill was testimony by a
young student who refused to do a pain-
ful experiment despite pressure from
school authorities.

 

 

Science Horizons ‘85, Danbury, CT
March 2, 1985
Western Connecticut State University

83 Hyperactivity in Mice. Brookﬁeld H.S.
Grade: Senior. Finalist.

In a project of questionable scientiﬁc
merit, a high school student administered
red dye which he claimed caused addiction
and nervousness in the three mice tested.
Other mice were given sugar added to their
water. One mouse died. No one was listed as
a supervisor.

Washington, DC. Science Fair
March 12—14, 1985

EVS—25 Acid Rain 11: The Eﬂects ofAcid Rain
on Wateriife. Grade: 8.

This project by a 12 year old demonstrated
that vinegar kills ﬁsh—a well—established fact.
Five guppies were placed in water and apple
cider vinegar added so that in 30-40 mintutes
all the ﬁsh were dead. “Before this [death] I
watched them frantically swimming about
in the container,” stated the student’s report.
judged by fair ofﬁcials to be in compliance
with International Science and Engineering
Fair rules.

200—63 How Beer Eﬂects (sic) Gerbils. Grade: 9.

This ninth grade student who stated that
he had “always wanted to experiment with
animals” deprived four gerbils of drinking
water thereby forcing them to drink beer. “I
was afraid the females were pregnant,” he
said. The unsurprising result was that more
“drowsiness,” and “wildness” was observed

in the beer-drinking gerbils.

Arlington, VA City Science Fair
March 31, 1985

This fair is supported and sponsored by
the Arlington School Board, and the rules

used are those of the International Science
and Engineering Fair.

#8H12 Short Term Eﬂects of Household Drugs
on Mice. Williamsburg Intermediate School,
Alexandria. Grade: 8.

Various substances were administered to
mice over a three and a half week period by
this 12 year old youngster working in her
home. The student’s report states, “I injected
three common drugs into the stomach with
an intubation needle. The common drugs
were vodka 80 proof, cafﬁn (sic) pills, and
cough serup (sic). It is necessary to have lea—
ther gloves on in case the animal bites, then
grab the mouse’s head forcing the needle
into the mouth . . . . I plan to conduct more
experiments ifI have time. I would like to
continue on animals.” This project was
judged in compliance with the fair’s rules on
animal welfare. According to the teacher, this
student was supervised by her father, a real
estate agent.

A Mass Murder—Junk Food? St. Mary’s Ele-
mentary School, Alexandria. Grade: 7.

The. purpose of this home project was to
observe the deleterious effects of feeding corn
chips, chocolate, and other junk foods to
mice: “1 had difﬁculties keeping my mice
alive,” said this 11 year old in her science fair
report. “Either they would be dead in the
cage with no marks on their body or they
would be torn up in the cage.” An unrecorded
number of animals died. One “junk food”
mouse on display at the fair was in sickly
condition. Reportedly supervised by a veter-
inarian.

Eﬂect of Alcohol on Reaction Time in Trained Mice.
O’Connell jr. High School, Arlington.
Grade: 9.

This project was conducted in a home
basement and dining room and supervised

 




 

  

 

 

 

 

by an oral surgeon. Six mice were admini-
stered l, 2, 4, and 6 drops ofa mixture con—
taining one-third 90% alcohol and the 9th
grader then timed the animals for maze—
running. According to the student’s report,
“Mice would not ingest the alcohol willingly.
We had to force it down them.” The unsur-
prising result was that reaction time was
slowed.

How Gerbils Adapt to New Environments. Francis
C. Hammond H.S., Alexandria, VA. Grade:
9, two students aged 14 and 15 years.

The behavior patterns offour gerbils were
observed after they had been taken from
one student’s home to another. Three ani-
mals died during the seven weeks ofobserva-
tion. Two animals escaped from their cage
and “probably ate rat poisoning or some—
thing,” according to the student. A third
animal died after being attacked by the sole
survivor. The school biology teacher was
listed as the supervisor.

Western Michigan Regional
Science and Engineering Fair,
Wayland, Michigan
April 14, 1984

A trophy for the best project usingjapa—
nese quail as an experimental subject is
among the awards offered for junior high
school entrants to this fair. Called the
“Coturnix Award” (after the scientific name
for the bird), this award attracts many young—
sters into improper student exercises, since
no humane provisions are attached to the
award.

Out of the total of eight quail projects
exhibited, seven involved administering
various substances or treatments to observe
the often harmful effects. These projects
conducted by children ages 11—13 involved
injecting either Depo Provera, estrogen,
thyroxine, alcohol, insulin, or exposing the
birds to radiation. The purpose of this curi—
ous award is open to question.

 
 

Animal Welfare Institute

Scientiﬁc Committee

Marjorie‘l’fnchel, Ph.D.
Bennett Derby, M.D.

F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D.
Roger Payne, Ph.D.
Samuel Peacock, M.D.
john Walsh, M.D.

 

  

  

    
 
 

Staff

Patrick Allen, Editorial Consultant

Cynthia A. Bank, Executive Assistant

jessie Despard, Administrative Assistant

Diane Halverson, Research Associate
for livestock and poultry

 

 

 
  

International Committee

Aline S. de Aluja, D.V.M. — Mexico

T.G. Antikas, D.V.M. — Greece
Ambassador Tabarak Husain — Bangladesh
Angela King — United Kingdom

Simon Muchiru — Kenya

David Ricardo —- Canada

Godofredo Stutzin — Chile

N.E. Wernberg — Denmark

The Prince George’s, MD Area
37th Annual Science Fair
April 21, 1985

SI 19 OfMice and Mazes. McDonough H.S.,
Charles County.

Caging conditions were sufficiently over-
crowded and unsatisfactory for the 26 small
mammals used in this project that six died
from fighting and an indeterminate number
of new born babies cannibalized.

S904 Cryogenics: Suspended Animation. Nor-
thern H.S.

The objective was to see under what con-
ditions fish can be frozen, rethawed, and
still live. The youngster slowly froze some
fish over a six day period and then defrosted
them. Others were frozen more quickly. Five
of the six store—purchased goldfish died in
this crude home project.

S 902 Can Cola Decrease Lead Absorption? Oxon
Hill H.S., Oxon Hill. First Place Award. ‘

Sixteen mice were force-fed lead by mouth
—a rather traumatic experience. Lead is a
well—known lethal poison. The young stu-
dent was assisted in this task by her science
teacher.

1985 Houston Science and
Engineering Fair
Houston, Texas

March 14—16, 1985

JBA-J 209 Does Estrogen Aﬂect Physiology?
Grade: junior.

Various doses of hormones or hormone
inhibitors were administered by mouth to
nine mice. Several animals that had been so
treated lost hair and their gums turned pale
yellow according to the 13 year old student’s
report. All untreated control animals suffered
or died—seemingly due to bad care. The
student recorded the unsavory events in
these words, “On Christmas morning two of
the control group ate half ofthe one. Then a

 

Officers

Lynne Hutchison, Whale Campaign Secretary
Cathy Liss, Research Associate

Nell Naughton, Mail Order Secretary

Greta Nilsson, Wildlife Consultant

Christine Stevens, President
Cynthia Wilson, Vice President
Marjorie Cooke, Secretary
Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer

 

couple of days later, one of the remaining
two had no face and the other had half an

3,

ear.

NBS-N103 Maternal Behavior in Primed Mice.
Grade: 9.

A 13 year old student temporarily removed
the mothers of newly born mice and replaced
them with virgin mice that had never been
exposed to pups. Fighting resulted in which
one baby mouse was killed. The scientific
justification for this project is not obvious.

NZO—N1019 Are Mice Smarter than Hamsters?
Grade: 9.

This crude project of no apparent value
was performed by a 13 year old. One mouse
and one hamster were deprived offood for 5
days-a long time to be without food. Dur-
ing this period they were provided only
vitamins and water and the youngster timed
how long it took them to run a maze.

SM 15—5906 Antidiabetic Agent in Bitter Melon.
Grade: Senior.

In the absence of any other food and to
avoid starvation, rats were forced to eat a
highly unpalatable bitter substance. This was
the only food provided for 3 consecutive days.
A photograph on display showed an animal’s
tail had been injured when the study had
tried to extract blood for analysis.

REFERENCES

Orlans, EB. 1972 a) High School Students
Continue Cruel Experiments Despite
“Supervision.” Information Report, 2 1 (3)
july-Sept, p. 1—2. Animal Welfare Institute,
Washington, DC.

Orlans, EB. 1972 b) New Rules for Old
Problems. Information Report 21(4),
Oct—Dec, p. 1, 3, 4. Animal Welfare Insti-
tute, Washington, DC.

 

Directors

john Beary, M.D.
Madeleine Bemelmans
Gerard Bertrand, Ph.D.
Marjorie Cooke
Christabel Gough
David 0. Hill

Sue Hunt

Freeborn G. jewett, jr.
Christine Stevens
Aileen Train

Cynthia Wilson

  

Adele Schoepperle, Assistant Treasurer
Rosario Teran, Clerical Assistant

Susan M. Wogan, Publications Coordinator
Louise Wright, Research Assistant

 




 

 

Photo: Environmental Investigation Agency

A heavy gaﬂ is about to be sunk into a pilot whale in this photo of the slaughter on the Fa roe Islands.

Hunting the hunters
up in the Faroes

The Faroe Islands, lying half—way be-
tween Scotland and Iceland, enjoy semi-
independent status within the Danish
federation. Another thing they enjoy (as
reported in the last Quarterly) is slaugh—
tering huge numbers of pilot whales.
What they do not enjoy is “interference
by outsiders.”

This was made very clear when in-
trepid anti—whalers from the Environ—
mental Investigation Agency visited the is—
lands injuly with the intention of com—
ing between the whalers and their whales.
Allan Thornton, director of EIA, de—
scribes what happened.

On 10 July we arrived in the Faroes with
four vehicles and three inﬂatable boats. Every
dayfor 20 hours a day (injuly at this latitude
there is almost no darkness) the vehicles
patrolled the bays on the two main islands.
On 28 July some 40 boats were seen driving
200 pilot whales towards the bay of Vestmanna.

The vans were immediately prepared to
launch the three inﬂatables but whale hunters
blocked the road with their cars. So we then
carried one of the inﬂatables to the harbor of
Kvikvik. On attempting to launch it the arm of
a crane was dropped on to it, almost beheading
one of the crew.

The dinghy was being crushed and began to
sink. EIA crew ashore tried to help by moving
the lift controls of the crane arm. They were
assaulted and beaten—as was a girl who went
to their aid ——but ﬁnally the boat struggled free.

It was 10 miles to Vestmanna Bay and
progress was slow because the dinghy was now
slightly deﬂated. On arrival we found the boats
waiting for us and the whales still imprisoned
in the bay. Immediately there were attempts to
ram us; two succeeded.

Despite harassment the dinghy was able to
get between the whales and the quay where
they were being driven to be killed. Twice we
were able to turn the whales back towards the
open sea by using gas—powered cylinders called
“Froghorns ” which produce a noise similar to a
ship’s foghorn.

But now things were getting rough. Boats as
well as trying to rant us were now attempting
to snare our propeller with ropes, and rather
than risk serious injury to the crew at the hands
of the enraged hunters, I surrendered the
dinghy to the hunt foreman.

Unimpeded, the hunters now again drove
the whales back towards the quay. The sla ugh-
ter began and went on for three—and—a—half
hours. We were delivered to the police who took
a statement but laid no charges.

Earlier EIA, supported by 24 of the world ’s
largest wildlife and conservation groups, had
appealed to the Faroese Prime Minister to
restrict the hunting level to 880 whales——the
average catch of the 1970s. The appeal was

refused. Whalers take as many whales as they
wish and the annual kill since 1979 has

averaged 2300, an increase of I 5 0% on the
previous level. All this at a time when the rest of
the world has either ceased whaling altogether
or, at the very least (and under great pressure),
cut back substantially.

We have also called for the prohibition of
hunting in bays like Vestmanna which have no
beaches. Killing in the water is inevitably slow
and extremely cruel. The Faroese government
has recently passed a law which requires “any
person wishing to kill an animal to ensure that
it is done in the most humane manner.” EIA
states that the hunt in Vestmanna Bay vio—
lated that law.

Before leaving the Faroes we visited a local
rubbish dump and quickly uncovered large
amounts of whale meat. The islands have a
high standard of living. They are in no way
reliant on whales for food. The hunt should be
phased out.

Whaling, continuedfrom page 1

on to the Supreme Court, the sanctions
could be delayed for many months.

IWC meeting

In july, the International Whaling Com-
mission (IWC) voted overwhelmingly to
change the status of the Northeast Atlantic
population of Minke whales to “protection
stock,” thus forcing Norway to consider
halting all of its whaling in spite of its
objection to the moratorium. The Norwegian
scientists supported reclassification.

The Soviet Union declared at the opening
of the IWC meeting that it would “tempor—
arily” halt its commercial whaling in the
Southern Ocean in 1988.

The Soviets, however, may get out of
whaling much sooner. The US. has already
invoked the Pelly and Packwood—Magnuson
sanctions against them for their violation of
the Minke whale quota this year. The Soviets
lost halfoftheir fishing allocation in the US.
ZOO—mile zone and stand to lose all by next
April if they continue whaling.

In addition, the Soviet whaling fleet is
literally falling apart. While it was in the
Southern Ocean in February, the huge
factory ship suffered major breakdowns in
its mechanical systems, necessitating a
costly, three-week layup in the Falkland
Islands (Malvinas) for repairs.

“Research” and “subsistence” loopholes
Several whaling nations have announced
they will seek to evade the commercial
whaling moratorium by granting themselves
“scientific research” permits to whale or by
seeking to have their whaling redefined as
“subsistence” rather than commercial.
Two proposals for research whaling, by
Iceland and South Korea, were roundly
criticized by the IWC Scientific Committee.
Iceland has refused for decades to carry out
basic research on the status of the sperm,
fin, sei and Minke whale stocks it has been
decimating. It has books full of historical
whaling data that have never been analyzed.
Yet it now claims that it must kill hundreds
of whales each year to do “studies” of the
effects of whaling on the whale stocks. Of
course, the whalers plan to sell the whale
meat derived from the “scientific” whaling
to japan. Estimates are that the Icelanders
would earn more than $30 million from
their “non—commercial” whaling over four
years. The studies would cost $1.5 million.
The Icelandic government even announced
that it would kill dozens of highly-endan-
gered blue and humpback whales for “re—
search”—with the rationale that they should
be killed to study the effects of protection
on the species, which have not been hunted
for years because of their extreme rarity.
Both japan and Norway stated that they
would be seeking to have their coastal
whaling redefined as “subsistence whaling,”
a new category outside the present com—
mercial and aboriginal whaling recognized
by the IWC. It can be expected that propos—
als will be made for the 1986 meeting, which
will be held in june in Malmo, Sweden.

 




THE

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

QUARTERLY

 

PO BOX 3650

WASHINGTON DC. 20007

WINTER 1985

VOL. 33 NO. 4

 

A return to the bad old days

There was no federal law against
cruelty and theft by the animal dealers
who sell dogs and cats to laboratories
when‘ photographs were taken and
published by Life magazine, February 4,
1966. Investigations uncovered not only
interstate commerce in stolen pets but
cruel dog farms where animals awaiting
sale died of hunger, cold and disease.
This article, initiated by Henry Luce,
brought more mail to Life magazine than
any other article in the magazine’s his-
tory, according to Stan Wayman, the
Life photographer assigned to the job.

Congress passed the Laboratory
Animal Welfare Act in 1966 to curb such
hideous practices, and, in 1970 and 1976,
the Act was amended to set standards for
animals in research facilities, in transit
from dealer’s premises, in airports, zoos
and circuses, and to make dogﬁghting a
federal crime.

For the past four years, administration
of the Act, which is the major U.S. fed-
eral animal protective law, has been
funded at a level of $4,865,000. The
Reagan administration sought to reduce
enforcement funds in previous years, but
this year it mounted an all-out attack by
recommending no funds at all to enforce
the Act! This unprecedented action has
met with strong protests from both ani-
mal welfare and scientiﬁc organizations
who recognize that the work of the vet—
erinary inspectors is essential in prevent-

Lawsuit to save the

The lawsuit to save the whales has not yet
been ruled on by U.S. District Courtjudge
Richey, before whom it is pending, but
voluminous legal papers continue to be
ﬁled on both sides of the case. Onjanuary
24th William D. Rogers of Arnold 8c Porter,
on behalf of the nine whale conservation
groups including the Animal Welfare Insti-
tute, ﬁled memoranda in opposition to
defendants’ motion and in support of the
whale protectors’ motion for summary judg-

continued on page 2

Remember this Life magazine report?

pros!

unit the Ammglﬁmn .

Lucky an Sqlphy-r,.0kla. mun '

what she saw-a pathetic, 2min .

hamless and up for nudinn. The womm
dollar for the chain.

ing abuses such as were documented in the
Life article.

There are more than 1100 research facili-
ties throughout the 50 states, and some of
these have 20 or more individual sites which
the inspectors must visit. There are 3.490
animal dealers, 1,367 exhibitors and 346 air-

 

u
5
§
be

«i

E

63.
:1

ports and carriers, all of which USDA’s vet-
erinary services are charged with inspecting
to ensure that the Act’s minimum standards
are maintained.

The ghastly abuses uncovered and cor-
rected by Veterinary Services will proliferate
unchecked if the funds are not restored.

 

 

 

Judge Charles H. Richey ruled March ﬁfth thatJapan must
be certified for killing protected whales and that its ﬁshing
allocations in the US 200-mile zone be cut as required by the
Packwood-Magnuson Amendment.

The Judge ordered that Secretary Baldrige and Secretary
Shultz be permanently enjoined from failing to certify any
whaling activities by Japan that violate IWC quotas.

Further, he denied the government’s request for a stay,
but this was granted by the Court of Appeals March 19th.
Final action is awaited.

 

 

photo -— Stan Wayman

 

 




 

whales

ment. The memoranda conclude:

con tin u ed

“The November 13, 1984 correspondence
does not commit Japan ever to stop whaling
for any species of whale at any future date.
In order to avoid certiﬁcation through the
end of 1987, Japan is required only to com-
ply with certain U.S.-created quotas and to
‘withdraw’ its ‘objections’ by December 13,
1984 (in the case of the sperm whaling
moratorium) and by April 1, 1985 (in the
case of the general whaling cessation) . . .
But the withdrawal of objections does not
constitute a promise to comply.

“If, on December 31, 1987, Japan were to
withdraw as a member of the IWC — as the
Convention permits any party to do on
December 31 of any year and as Japan
repeatedly has threatened to do — Japan
could continue whaling indeﬁnitely. The
November 13, 1984 understanding would be
of no effect. Such action by Japan would be
consistent with international law since the
Convention permits such withdrawals. It
would be consistent with the November 13,
1984 understanding, which contains no com-
mitment whatsoever to the contrary. That
understanding then would have accom-
plished nothing for the United States, for the
cause of whale preservation, or for the IWC
and the Convention. It would, however,
have accomplished a great deal for Japan’s
commercial whaling industry, by postponing
the Packwood-Magnuson sanction until it
was drained of any effect. As elequently ex-
plained by Secretary of Commerce Malcolm
Baldrige in his January 14, 1985 afﬁdavit:

“ ‘The Administration’s policy is to en-
courage the development of domestic ﬁsher-
ies and the export of ﬁsheries products
originating in the ﬁshery conservation zone.
To the extent this policy is effective, the total
allowable level of foreign fishing referred to
in section 201 of the Magnuson Act will
decrease. Accordingly, the government’s
leverage under the Packwood-Magnuson
Amendment can be expected to decrease as
foreign ﬁshermen are displaced by domestic
ﬁshermen.’

“Because the understanding with Japan
entails no commitment to comply with IWC
quotas, it conﬂicts even with Defendants’
self-serving reconstruction of past ad—
ministrative practice.

“The November 13, 1984 exchange of cor-
respondence gives no commitment that
Japan will ever comply . . .

“Thus, even if one assumes that the
Secretary of Commerce has unfettered
discretion to determine what actions

‘diminish the effectiveness’ of the conven-
tion, the November 13, 1984 understanding
with Japan is unsupportable — a classic
abuse of discretion. It trades a continuation
of Japanese whaling — which must on any
theory diminish the Convention’s effec-
tiveness — for nothing.”

 

 

Boycott to save the whales

  

 

A worldwide boycott against Japan Airlines began in January. Whale conservation organiza-
tions throughout the world are joining together in thls boycott, which 18 being coordinated by
Greenpeace, to persuade the Government of Japan to end commerc1al whaling. Japan Airlines
was selected because the Government of Japan is its major shareholder. Japan exerts the greatest
inﬂuence in the world to destroy the commercial whaling moratorium overwhelmlngly adOpted
by the International Whaling Commission (IWC) in 1982 and due to begin at the end of this
year. Even now Japanese Whalers are killing the great sperm whales 1n deﬁance of the IWC,

The Animal Welfare Institute took a
centerfold ad December 27th in the big
Japanese magazine Asahi Journal entitled
“Statesmanship. An Open Letter to Prime
Minister Nakasone.” It said “Statesmanship
puts the higher interests of Japan above the
vested interests of a few. A ban on sperm
whaling has been decided by a 25-1 vote of
the International Whaling Commission in-
cluding four countries who hunted sperm
whales. . . . Does it really serve the interests
of Japan to be the only country in the world
to continue hunting sperm whales in de-
ﬁance of the INTERNATIONAL CON—
SENSUS or does it serve the interests of a
very few?”

The ad names the coastal whaling com-
panies and their powerful friends and paid
lobbyists and continues, “In an atmosphere
of growing tension, a coalition of en-
vironmental organizations have ﬁled suit in

U.S. Federal Court demanding that the U.S.

Commerce and State Departments institute
a 50% cut ofJapanese ﬁshing rights in the
U.S. ZOO—mile economic zone as required by
the Packwood-Magnuson amendment to the
Fishery Conservation Act.” The ad ﬁnished
with an appeal to Prime Minister Nakasone
to withdraw Japan’s objection to the ban on
hunting sperm whales during his January
meeting with President Reagan, but Japan’s
objections still stand. The lawsuit is going
forward with the Japan Whaling Association
joining the legal battle against the friends of
whales.

To show the Government of Japan your
commitment to ending the commercial
whaling that has driven one whale species
after another to the brink of extinction,
please take an active part in the boycott
againstJapan Air Lines. Ask travel agents in
your area to book clients on airlines other
than JAL whenever an alternative is avail-

able.

 

Fin whale from The Red Data Book of the USSR.

 

A Letter From A Whale

brings huge
human response

A Letter From A Whale tells how whales
and their families live, how very similar they
are in certain respects to human families,
and pleads for help in silencing the murder-
ous harpoons. The October 1984 issue of
Family Circle carried a brief mention of this
AWI-sponsored letter. As a result more than
60,000 children and their parents have writ-
ten to ask us for copies. One child, Elisabeth
Ferrara age 10, included with her 155 dona-

tion a delightful and touching poem. Here it
IS.

    

UHALES

‘5“th Lien So ma
oi 0 Lo. 30 ‘0.)
King Efﬁe ocean
iuing in H': Own
Secret Luau
Aghni'ic
ACiFiC
Milan *co.
0 prec‘mus
So hauler
Peaceﬁd
QM him

There. were So many
but going *0 be, So (a...)

57
EUSALQLH FmArA

be. “3

 




CAL—hHC/JV

\U \U

‘vn

\V

Hui

p—‘Fs I—ﬁi—IUHW‘gh-‘KU

Psi-an»

Horse Sense

 

Oil imperils sea otter

Despite more than 70 years of protection,
the California sea otter has never recovered
from the brutal attentions of 19th century fur
traders. The estimated adult population along
its 200-mile range off central California is just
1300 -— and probably declining. Drowning in
ﬁshing nets, shooting and pollution are taking
severe toll.

In 1977 the sea otter was declared a
Threatened Species; it was recognized that its
small population is highly vulnerable to an oil
spill from passing tankers or from the oil ports
at either end of its range. At that time offshore
oil—drilling was not a hazard. It is now. The

The conservation ﬁlm that wasn’t

The month-long safari was intended to ﬁlm
wildlife conservation in Botswana, southern
Africa. But according to the World Society
for the Protection of Animals, it turned into
a nauseatingly brutal hunting party.
One lioness was run over twice and
then shot at point-blank range from
the back of a truck. Another was pelted
with beer cans to provoke her into charging
the camera. When she didn’t she was shot
twice in the neck and bumped repeatedly
with the truck. A brown hyena was chased to
exhaustion by dogs and trucks, repeatedly
bumped and ﬁnally run over and killed. A
lion cub was lassoed, prodded and kicked by
a heavy-booted hunter, then left in the bush
with its two siblings to die of starvation. Its
mother had already been slain. A herd of
wildebeest was pursued and indiscriminately
shot at. Two gemsbok were shot, one of them

entire sea-otter range is proposed for oil ex-
ploration.

Sea otters have no way of dealing with oil
spills. Indeed the US Fish and Wildlife Ser-
vice has predicted 100% mortality for otters
contaminated by oil. It will not wash off and
the animals’ non-stop attempts to lick it off
can only result in their swallowing it. And
should an oil spill occur, otters escaping direct
contamination could well die of starvation,
their food supplies destroyed.

Recent years have seen more and more
spillages — some of them alarmingly close to
the sea-otter range. With today’s volume of

tanker trafﬁc, it is only a matter of time before
the luck runs out. As for danger from oil rigs,
the 3.2 million gallons of oil spewed into the
Gulf of Mexico by the blowout on Ixtoc 1 in
1979 serves as a fearful warning of what can
happen.

Oil-drilling should be prohibited within the
sea otter’s range and tankers required to stay
at least 50 miles offshore so that tugboats have
time to get to vessels in distress before they
run aground. At present they are far too close
inshore for their own safety and that of the sea
otters.

 

a pregnant female whose unborn calf was
hacked out of the womb and displayed for
the camera.

Heart transplant surgeon Dr. Christiaan

Barnard was on this “conservation safari”
for the whole ﬁrst week ﬁnally leaving in
disgust.Assistant Camerawoman Carol Han-
cock ﬁlmed the proceedings throughout.

Bobcat issue bobs up again

 

 

There can be few animal lovers who are
not familiar with the work of Hope Ryden,
photographer, author, television producer
and ﬁlm maker. She combines her technical
skills with a rare appreciation of and empathy
with animals. Her ﬁeld work is legendary and
scientiﬁcally valuable. This is all by way of
preface to the announcement that her 1972
book, Mustangs: A Retum to the Wild, ﬁrst
published by Viking Press is now available in
a handsome paper back edition, attractively

   

priced at $9.95. We cannot do better than
quote the Library Journal. “The color
photographs — 4-8 pages of them — are stun-
ning. Together with a vivid and skillfully
written text, they provide a very special ex-
perience for the reader”.

If your friendly neighborhood book shop
does not have it, you can ask them to get it for
you from the Mountain Press Publishing
Company, 1600 North Avenue West,
Missoula, MT 59806. John Gleiber

photo —— Hope- Ryden

 

US conservationists at the 1983 CITES meet-
ing in Botswana fought hard and successfully
to prevent the “de-listing” of the American
bobcat. The species thus remained on Ap-
pendix II of CITES; and Appendix II species
— and their parts and products — may not
be exported except where it has been scien—
tiﬁcally established that such exports will in
no way harm the species’ survival prospects.

Conservation groups in Nevada believe
that the state is now allowing bobcats to be
taken without these proper safeguards for
the species. The Nevada Humane Society
and the Nevada Outdoor Recreation Associ-
ation have ﬁled suit against Nevada’s Board
of Wildlife Commissioners to stop the killing
of bobcats in the state. The two organiza—
tions say that appropriate trapping seasons
cannot be determined owing to the lack of
“adequate or competent” studies of bobcat
populations.

Chile sanctions sea

lion kill

For the ﬁrst time in 35 years sea lions may
now ofﬁcially be hunted in Chile. The
government has authorized a commercial kill
of 30,000 along a 1200-mile stretch of the
country’s coastline. The move has angered
Chilean conservationists. While there has
been no overall census, limited surveys
suggest that sea lion populations are
vulnerable. Furthermore the species mixes
freely with certain related species which are
certainly depleted. And since there is small
likelihood of the hunt being ,properly
controlled, many of these animals are likely to
be killed too —— with well above the ofﬁcial
quota of sea lions. 3

 




Deep in the forest something stirred.
It sounded like neither beast nor bird.
What was that alien noise he heard?

If the forest in question was Brazil’s Ama-
zonian rainforest, then all too probably the
“alien noise” came from one of the legion of
mechanical monsters now frenziedly uproot-
ing the jungle in the name of progress. Bur-
dened by a $100 billion debt, Brazil is seek-
ing economic salvation through a crash
development program in its own Wild West.

Surrendered in this cause will be one of
the last big tracts of virgin rainforest still
precariously clinging to planet Earth. Envis-
aged in its stead are 10 new cities, huge cat—
tle ranches, a deepwater port, an electric
railway, a paved 1000-mile highway and, to
crown all, the world’s largest iron-ore mine
(which is expected to make big inroads into
the world’s largest foreign debt) plus bounti-
ful supplies of cheap electricity, courtesy of
the Tucurui dam which has drowned nearly
800 square miles. of forest and forest life.

This at any rate is the dream — and in-
coming settlers in droves are pinning their
hopes to it. But how does the dream shape
up to the likely reality?

From bitter experience the aid-funding
agencies have learned that development in
the thin forest soils of Amazonia, unless
stringently controlled, will be a euphemism
for destruction that enriches only the land
speculator. So this time, on the advice of its
staff ecologist, Dr. Robert Goodland, the
World Bank’s $440 million loan carries strict

A giant awaking — or sleep-walking into disaster?

BRAZIL: a damming indictment

possessing tremendous biological signiﬁ-
cance.”

But it is the Tucurui dam itself which is
exciting the chief wrath of conservationists
-— both within Brazil and outside. For it ex-
empliﬁes all that development should not
be; it is extravagant, destructive, unneces—
sary. The now ﬂooded area contains
nearly 200 species of trees, 44 of which are
commercially very valuable. But the Brazil-
ian company which was to extract this tim-
ber went bankrupt soon after starting opera-
tions.

So 90% of these doomed trees have not
been harvested; instead they have been
sprayed with a defoliant so hideously toxic
that it is endangering the lives of those

still in the Vicinity. Indeed many deaths and

 

-Log exports down — but so are the trees

Exports toJapan of raw logs from the Philippines, Malaysia and Indonesia have fallen in re-
cent years. This would be good news if it meant that importer and exporter had now seen the
light and recognized the need to conserve tropical forests. Unfortunately it means no such
thing. The fall-off is due to commercial exhaustion. The accessible forests have mostly gone.

 
   

spontaneous abortions have already occurred.

The toll in rainforest mammals and birds
whose habitat has gone will never be known.
One way or another many millions will cer-
tainly be destroyed and there will be numer-
ous unrecorded extinctions.

Granted, the dam should give Brazil a
huge increase in hydro-electric power which
notionally could halve oil imports. But Brazil
already has more generating capacity than it
can use. And in any case most of this new
hydro-power will be sold at the very generous
discount rates offered as bait to attract for-
eign investment.

The multinationals took the bait. It seems
they will also take any possible proﬁts. And
Brazil will be left to pay the social and eco-
logical costs. These are likely to be heavy.

 

 

 

Forests felled, people robbed

   
  
   
  
  
   
    
  
  
 
  
  
    
  
  

A sad story which tells of offences against both man and nature has come to us from the Asia-
Pacific People’s Environment Network. It concerns the people of Gogol in Papua New Guinea
and the trees which once nourished their soil, protected their water supplies and succoured their
eXIStence.

Now the trees are virtually all gone — torn down by the japanese timber company Jant which
regards tropical forests as just unprocessed goods. And all around, the land lies scorched and bar-
ren.

The people sold out their timber rights on the understanding that logging would be 'selective and
new trees planted. This has not happened. The trees have been clear-felled and reforestation 1s
minimal. A'lso far fewer jobs for local people have come from this project than the company
predicted.

In how many other parts of south-east Asia are forests and the lives of local peoples being wan-
tonly destroyed in this manner?

conditions: development must be of a kind
that protects both the environment and the
20 or so Amerindian tribes living in the
region.

On neither count, though, does Brazil
seem to be honoring this agreement. In a let-
ter t0 the president of the World Bank envi-
ronmental and anthropological groups have
urged the bank to “exercise its maximum
leverage in this situation.” The letter speaks
of “accelerated, rampant deforestation, in-
vasion of Indian lands, and destruction of
natural areas unsuited for agriculture but

 

No plants —— no man

Plants, and only plants, are able to transform the energy ultimately derived from the sun into a form in which it can be used by living
organisms. The several million kinds of microorganisms that exist in the world, and make up the biosphere, owe their continued existence to no
more than 300,000 kinds of green plants and algae which have the ability to capture the sun’s energy.

Since.l§ or more kinds of animals and microorganisms exist for every plant, it may be assumed that the extinction of one kind of plant may

bring about extinction of a dozen or even many more kinds of animals and microorganisms. We have not even begun to investigate the great
majority of plants for any property of potential interest, and the chemicals they contain are just beginning to be explored.

From both these points of view it makes obvious good sense to hold on to the plants we have. In the US about 10% of our 20,000 SPCCiCS Of
plants should probably be classified as endangered or threatened -- including about 50% of Hawaii’s 2200 or so plants. During the first eight

years in which the Endangered Species Act was in operation, the Fish and Wildlife Service listed 63 plants as endangered or threatened, 01' about
2% of the total. Many of the remainder will be lost if the process is not accelerated.

 

 

 

 

 

 

/

  




 

Exposing the ugly roots of forest policy

He calls (collect) from some hide-out in
Montana to one or other of the national
media, announcing himself as “Deep Root
— an experienced forestry manager.” Refus-
ing further self-identiﬁcation, he goes on to
allege that the timber industry and the U.S.
Forest Service are conspiring together to
make large tracts of virgin forest ineligible
for protection as “Wilderness”. How? By
building thousands of miles of roads through
these areas (for the Wilderness designation
can only be made where no roads exist).
Once these lands are opened up in this way,
the loggers move in and the timber is then
sold off to the lumber companies — often at
a big net loss to the government (i.e. the tax-
payer).

Deep Root claims that the Forest Service
intends “a road-building binge” over the
next 10 years as a pre-emptive strike against
members of Congress who wish to bring a
bigger slice of the Rockies under the protec-
tive mantle of “Wilderness”. All in all the
anonymous caller has the Service in a tizzy.
For in effect he has clear-felled a highly sen-
sitive area of forestry policy which it had
hoped to preserve as densely tangled
undergrowth, impenetrable to the public
gaze. “There’s absolutely no question that
the reason for all these roads in virgin areas
is to make sure the land can never be included
in a Wilderness. ’ ’

This spring in Washington a House sub-
committee will hold hearings on the road-
building program in virgin forests. What
nasty creatures will be found hiding in the
woodwork? And will Deep Root break cover
to testify? Watch this space!

 

Danger! Gun lobby
aims to riﬂe our
National Parks

The enlightened policy which has made
America’s National Parks a haven for
wildlife — and by the same token a model to
the rest of the world — is under threat. The
dark forces of destruction are on the march.
The National Riﬂe Association has ﬁled a
lawsuit that could open most of our parks to
hunting and trapping.

While the suit is ostensibly concerned with
just 11 areas, the NRA has a very much
larger target in its sights. That target is noth-
ing less than the principle which has stood
for over a century and which gives to wildlife
in our parks the unfettered right to live free
and unmolested. Any exceptions to this rule
have to have Congressional approval.

The NRA would turn this principle on its
head. Were it to win its present suit, only a
speciﬁc act of Congress could prohibit hunt-
ing and trapping in a National Park.

 

 

Deep Root to Denver correspondent of
The Washington Post:

“I love it when they say they need to cut a
stand of timber on some remote mountain-
side for the good of wildlife. Does anybody
mention the wildlife impact of hacking a
big road right through the habitat and send-
ing these 30-ton logging rigs back and
forth?”

 

 

 

 

 

photo: USDA Forest Service

photo: USDA Forest Service

 




 

 

Here are photographs that Animal Welfare Institute photographers took
before passage of the 1966 Laboratory Animal Welfare Act.

 

 

One of the dogs found dead on a, dealer’s premises. AWI’s Laboratory Animal
Consultant fed and watered the surviving dogs till the dealer, arriving with another
truckload of animals, returned and drove her off.

 

g». ‘ 4

Dogs being hosed in their cages at the University
of Minnesota




After passage of the Laboratory Animal Welfare Act many dog dealers went out
of business rather than try to meet the Act’s humane requirements. But cases of
cruelty and criminal neglect still arise —Witness the recent Knudsen case.

Life and death inside a California kennel compound

Until November last there was just one
kennel operator in California licensed to sup—
ply research labs with dogs and cats from
animal pounds. Now there is none, following
the shocking revelation of life — and death -—
inside the one-acre kennel compound near
Stockton.

The case came to light when the sheriff’s
ofﬁce in San Joaquin County received three
phone calls within 15 minutes from people
complaining of a foul stench coming from the
kennel owned by Bud Knudsen who (they
added) had not been seen for weeks.

Sheriff’s deputies promptly broke in and
were met by the howl of starving animals with
suppurating sores imprisoned amid piles of
feces and the rotting corpses of 18 dogs and 19
cats. By day’s end ofﬁcials had videotaped the
grisly scene and traced the missing owner. He
was charged on 124 counts of animal abuse.

This horror case has shocked both federal
ofﬁcials and animal welfare workers. The
latter, though, are furious that ofﬁcials failed
to act sooner. “They’ve been asked to pull
Knudsen’s license for months and have done
nothing” stormed Elliott Katz, president of
Californians for Responsible Research.

In fact Knudsen had been one of ﬁve men
arrested in July 1983, four of them for falsely
obtaining dogs from people seeking “good
homes” for their pets, and Knudsen himself
for knowingly acquiring stolen property.

While Knudsen was acquitted on this'

occasion (the others received jail sentences)
former employees told law enforcement
authorities that he had ordered sick dogs to be
shot and sick cats killed with a rubber mallet
or drowned. However necropsies failed to
substantiate these allegations.

 

dealer business for life.

If USDA were shackled by zero funding, it could not en-
force the law — Knudsen has been put out of the dog

 

 

Henry Knudsen, of Lathrop, Calif., will
permanently forfeit his laboratory animal
dealer’s license and pay a $10,000 ﬁne, with
an additional $114,000 suspended, after ad-
mitting to charges that 124 animals were
cruelly neglected at his place of business.

According to Bert W. Hawkins, adminis-
trator of the United States Department of
Agriculture’s Animal and Plant Health In-
Spection Service, which enforces the Animal
Welfare Act, the civil penalties were im—
POSCd by a USDA administrative law judge.
The ﬁne will be paid from escrow of Knud-
sen’s property sale.

”Knudsen is permanently out of the ani—
mal dealer business,” Hawkins said. “If he
CV61“ again engages in business regulated by
the Animal Welfare Act — whether or not a
license is required — he would be required
to Pay the suspended $114,000 ﬁne.”

California animal dealer punished

Eighteen dogs and 19 cats were found
starved to death on Knudsen’s premises.
Animals still alive — 69 dogs and 18 cats —
were emaciated and dehydrated. The live
animals were taken to local animal shelters
for proper care.

Evidence for the charges was acquired
Nov. 1, 1984, at Knudsen’s facility by local
law enforcement ofﬁcials, animal control
authorities and USDA inspectors. Knudsen’s
federal license as an animal dealer was im-
mediately suspended because of the serious
nature of the charges.

Federal law requires animal dealers to
provide adequate food and water, needed
veterinary care and individual identiﬁcation
tags. Violations of the Animal Welfare Act
are punishable by civil penalties up to $1,000
per count.

 

 

The following editorial is from the
Stock ton Record February 6, 1985

G 00d start
0 n iusti ce

What happens next to for-
mer Lathrop kennel OWner
Henry “Bud” Knudsen is up to
the criminal justice system: a
preliminary hearing on the
animal, cruelty charges he
faces opened in Manteca
Municipal Court Tuesday.

But much justice in the
Knudsen case already has
been done.

In a settlement of a civil
action brought by the " U. S.
Department Of Agriculture,
Knudsen has been:-

I Prohibited from ever
again entering the animal bro-
kerage business. _

I Fined $124,000 with all but
$10,000 suspended contingent
upon Knudsen staying out of
the animal business. ,

The Department of Agricul.
ture took a hard line in the

Knudsen case: it went after

Knudsen for 124 cases of
allegedly mistreated and
neglected animals .-—-’ the 36
dead dogs and cats and the 88
starving animals discovered at
Knudsen’s kennel on Nov. 1.

District Attorney Richard
Eichenberger’s ofﬁce took a
different approach, consolidat-
ing the 124 criminal charges on
which Knudsen was originally
arrested, into four mis-
demeanors on grounds that it
would be virtually impossible
to substantiate all of the origi-
nal charges. ‘

The Department of Agricul-
ture, thankfully, didn’t agree.

 




The Quarterly has reported previously
(Summer, 1982 Vol 31, No 3) on the mass
killing of migratory birds by hunters in
Cyprus. Sadly the scale of the destruction
shows no signs of falling off. On the contrary
— the International Council for Bird Preser-
vation (ICBP) states that “the number of
migratory birds killed per square mile is
higher in Cyprus than in any other Mediter-
ranean country, and the situation is getting
worse every year.”

During the migrating seasons much of the
island is blanketed in mist nets, each 10 to 12
meters long. Enormous numbers of these are
being imported: one recent consignment had
a total length of 20 miles. And more hunting
licenses are being issued than ever before.

Spurring this slaughter of some 20 million
birds a year is the Cypriots’ taste for the
sparrow-sized blackcap. It is considered a
delicacy. But such is the indiscriminate

Cyprus: the migrants’ graveyard

 

nature of the destruction that blackcaps
form only a small percentage of the total kill
which includes many endangered and (in
theory) protected birds.

The 1982 Beme Convention on wildlife
conservation forbids the use of mist nets.
Cyprus has signed the Convention but has
not yet ratiﬁed. In 1983 it promised the
Council of Europe that it would do so ‘ ‘in the
very near future.” Since then nothing has
happened — except a further easing of the
pitifully few restraints on the island’s
hunters.

Cypriot ornithologists now estimate that
(excluding waterfowl) perhaps as many as
three out of four migrants ﬂying across
Cyprus are killed. Since the island is one of
the three main routes for birds crossing the
Mediterranean, ICBP is deeply concerned.
In order to bring pressure on the govern-
ment, it has urged travel agents and its four

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Important news:

Norway and Denmark have proposed reinstatement of the North American gyr-
falcon to Appendix I of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered

Species of Wild Fauna and Flora.

 

 

Bonn Convention

 

Back in June 1979 in Bonn, Germany, an
international convention was born: the Con—
ven tion on the Conservation of Migratory
Species of Wild Animals. Four and a half
years later in November 1983 it came of age.
Having notched up the required ratiﬁcations
the Bonn Convention (its short-hand title) is
now in force.

The convention seeks to protect migratory
species, including birds, marine mammals
and ﬁsh, which cross national boundaries.
Appendix I lists the currently endangered;
Appendix II is for species at risk of becoming
endangered.

Four and a half years may seem a long
time for a convention to begin to work. But

\1,
\ﬁ‘ ' "f4‘

a ‘(. xii“. ’2’ V"
A xxx-3‘ V

8%
ﬁfvi‘ #3]: ya

3 Lilﬁiﬁfiéi
”W1

3“

in fact it can take a lot longer. By “

conven-

tional” standards the process this time has
been quite speedy.

No thanks to the United States, though.
Not only has the US not ratiﬁed the Bonn
Convention, it has not even taken the pre-
liminary step of signing it. (That last sen-
tence has an awful lot of negatives — but
then so has US policy on this issue.)

Bonn Convention ratiﬁers: Cameroon,
Chile, Denmark, Egypt, European Economic
Community, Hungary, India, Ireland,
Israel, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands,
Niger, Portugal, Sweden.

5\

\S‘. .12" l {a} y
1! I’- I
khj‘ﬁé : 4‘ “ n"
5R; ’ v ‘

I’
{-1} ‘

F ougasse

The bird that doesn’t ﬂap when its nest is moved

In Victoria, Australia, the spunwing plover IS learning to live with modern agriculture.
Farmers temporarily shift nests and eggs out of the path of their massive cultivators, and sit—
ting birds apparently take these peregrinations in their (or rather the farmer’s) stride. The
practice is proving very helpful 1n maintaining the small local population.

8

million members

tourism there.
Letters are needed to the president of

Cyprus protesting the appalling numbers of

song birds killed (40 birds for each man,

woman and child on the island each year).

He may be addressed:

His Excellency

President Spyros Kyprianou

Nicosia, Cyprus.

in Europe to boycott

Egg smugglers caught

Last September in Western Australia
wildlife ofﬁcers caught two US citizens cut-
ting down a tree to get at the eggs of a red-
tailed black cockatoo. The two were also
found to be in possession of other eggs of
other rare species. They were ﬁned $1200
with costs.

To aid them in the felony the egg robbers
had come equipped with a thermostatically-
controlled incubator, a temperature probe
and sophisticated mountaineering gear.
Australian Customs fear that the smuggling
of fertile eggs — far more difﬁcult to detect
than the smuggling of live birds — may be
on the increase.

Ex—mobster turns

wildlife smuggler ?

A former prominent member of the Maﬁa
who testiﬁed against organized crime in the
early 19705 has been charged with illegally
importing hundreds of endangered animals.
Also charged were his wife, his two sons, his
daughter and the curator of an Indonesian
zoo.

The animals were smuggled into the US
from Indonesia, Australia and New Guinea
during the period June 1978 to September
1980. They included many exotic birds,
mainly of the parrot family, and also an out-
size lizard, the Komodo dragon, named after
the Indonesian island where the few surviv-
ing members of this prehistoric species still
cling to existence.

 
    

 

photo — Friends of the Earth

    




Aerial wolf hunts expand in Alaska

A disheartening report on the aerial wolf
hunt authorized by the Alaska Board of
Game appeared in The Alaska Wildlife Al-
liance Newsletter for January/February
1985. Excerpts follow: “On Tuesday,
December 4, 1984, the Alaska Board of
Game voted 4-3 to expand aerial wolf hun-
ting intO‘ yet another area of Alaska’s in-
terior. The decision was made in spite of
overwhelming public opposition as evidenc-
ed in thousands of written comments to
Governor Bill Shefﬁeld and the Board and
also in oral testimony directly to the Board at
the public hearing. The new area is Game
Management Unit (GMU) 20E and the nor-
thern part of GMU 11, more than 5,000
square miles located in the Tok-Fortymile
River area of the eastern interior. It is in ad-
dition to aerial wolf hunts already authorized
and underway in up to another 13,900
square miles in GMU’s 20A and 20B. Aerial
wolf hunting was begun in the Tok-
Fortymile River area of GMU 20E in 1981
but was suspended, along with all other
aerial wolf hunting, in 1983 by the lawsuit
ﬁled by The Alaska Wildlife Alliance. As
reported in the past, that lawsuit was resolv-
ed by guideline regulations and required
public review adopted by the Alaska Board
of Game in April, 1984. So far, these three
aerial hunts have been authorized under the
guideline regulations with more waiting in
the wings. Although public review is now re-
quired, the majority public interest is still
not being adequately considered.

“In the new area, the Alaska Department
of Fish and Game (ADF&G) hopes to kill ap-
proximately 100 wolves out of what they
think is a total subunit population of around
125 wolves. But some local residents believe
the number of wolves is much less. ADF&G
has performed no wolf census (actual wolf
count) in the area...Even if the current
ADF&G wolf population estimate is ac-
curate, they intend to leave no more than 25
wolves in the entire 5,000 square mile area,
or one wolf for every 250 square miles! If it is
not accurate and ADF&G is anywhere near
successful in killing wolves this winter, wolves
in 20E may be virtually and effectively
eliminated.

“On top of this, as reported in PaSt
newsletters, ADF&G’s own research in
subunit 20E indicates that predation by

 

Prehistoric wolf wall
painting from

Les Eyzies de Tayac

grizzly bears on moose calves, the part of the
moose population they consider most
vulnerable, is more than six times greater
than predation by wolves! In their study,
more moose calves drowned than were killed
by wolves! But the predictable ADF&G
response is to kill even more wolves to make
up the difference. The predation scenario in
subunit 20E is much the same as in the
Nelchina Basin and Denali National Park.
In the Nelchina Basin, attempted "ex-
perimental’ wolf eradication in the mid—708
had no effect on moose numbers. And in
Denali National Park, moose and caribou
populations are thriving with no sanctioned
wolf control at all.

“All citizens should contact Governor Bill
Shefﬁeld at Pouch A, Juneau, Alaska 99811
and request that he stop all aerial hunting
immediately and appoint to the Board of
Game an Alaskan who will fairly represent
and consider the views of a1] Alaskans. Ask
him to cut all ADF&G aerial wolf hunting
funds from the state budget and to consider
the effect aerial wolf hunting has on the im-
age of the state and our all-important tourist
industry.”

British Columbia

Project Wolf is ﬁghting a continuing battle
against the aerial killing of wolves in British
Columbia, the following are excerpts from
their latest newsletter.

“The Ministry of Environment, is contin—
uing a massive extermination program using
Fish and Wildlife staff in helicopters to wipe
out entire wolf populations in selected areas
of northeastern British Columbia.

“There is absolutely no predation on live-

Federal Communications Commission helps wolves

and British Columbia

 

stock from the wolves that are being hunted
down and shot from helicopters.

“Although in private hands, public money
is being used to fund a slaughter that will
beneﬁt ﬁnancially only a handful of already
wealthy men. It is big business. One guide
took in 79 hunters in 1982 each of whom paid
between $5,000 and $10,000 to the company
for the opportunity.

“Who opposes this wolf kill?

“The wolf kill program has been de-
nounced by the Federal Department of the
Environment as ‘unscientiﬁc and danger—
ous.’ In addition the Canadian Society of
Zoologists, and the departments of biology at
Guelph, and McMasters University have
condemned the program. Biologists from the
University of BC. have criticized the gov-‘
ernment biologist Dr. John Elliott for being
unscientiﬁc in managing and organizing the
program. In addition the kill has been con-
demned by the World Wildlife Fund, the
Sierra Club, The BC. Association for the
Protection of Fur-Bearing Animals and by
Project Wolf.”

But Minnesota wolves win

On February 9, 1985 Judge Lord’s ruling
against the proposed sport trapping season
on the Eastern Timber Wolf (See AWI
Quarterly Vol. 33 No. 1, Winter 1984) was
upheld by the Eighth Circuit Court. The
decision states in part: “The district court
concluded that public hunting of a threat-
ened species such as the Eastern Timber
Wolf is prohibited by the Act except in the
extraordinary case where population
pressures within the animal’s ecosystem can-
not otherwise be relieved. As the government
had made no such showing, a motion for
summary judgment that the sport trapping
regulations violate the End angered Species
Act was granted. The district court also con-

The Alaska Department of Fish and Game began ﬁtting wolves with radio collars several years ago
in what the Department said was a scientiﬁc study of the wolf population. Now science has given
way to destruction as wolves wearing radio collars unwittingly lead the Department’s airborne
gunners to a remote pack of wolves tracked through radio equipment licensed by the Federal Com-
munications Commission. The Commission says the hunt violates that license.

.“The use of this equipment to locate the wolves for the purpose of killing them no longer con-
;St‘}:8 a research project,” said the chief of the FCC’s frequency lialson branch, H. Frank

mg t.

The FCC ruling will hamper but not end the wolf hunt. To do that, the Governor of Alaska

must call a halt.
K;

cluded that the additional regulations
expanding the predation control program of
the wolf were illegal, as they were made
without explanation. It awarded the Sierra
Club $55,369.45 under the attorney fee pro-
vision of the Endangered Species Act. We af-
ﬁrm the judgment of the district court as to
the sport trapping of the wolf, reverse and
remand as to the predation control regula-
tions, and afﬁrm the attorneys’ fee award.”

9

 

 

 




 

New technology to reduce animal suffering

The interest of commercial ﬁrms in the
development and marketing of substitutes
for laboratory animals is welcome. Amer-
ican Science and Engineering, Inc. of Cam-
bridge, Massachusetts states: “We believe
that the AS&E Small Animal CT represents
a breakthrough for the nondestructive eval-
uation of small animals in areas such as
carcinogenesis testing, bioassay, teratology
studies, and drug safety evaluation, and will
provide an alternative to the serial destruc-
tion of laboratory animals.”

Reduction of the use of animals in car-
cinogenesis bioassays can be expected
through use of the company’s micro-CT
scanning instrument. As stated in a paper
by Fredrick H. Seguin, Paul Burstein, and
Paul J. Bjorkholm, the consumption of
time, money, and animals using current
bioassays is cited (of order two years and
half a million dollars):

“Until the animals die, the only method
used to detect tumors is clinical observation
(palpation and observation of weight and
food consumption). These methods are not
very sensitive to early tumor growth. It is
possible to make periodic sacriﬁces of
animals for autopsy, but this requires addi-
tional animals, and unless very large
numbers of animals are used the statistics
are poor. Usually animals are allowed to
survive until they are seriously ill or until
the predetermined endpoint of the study,
when careful autopsies and histopatho-
logical examinations are performed.

“If noninvasive X-ray CT inspection can
be used to detect early'tumors, then it would
be possible to inspect the internal structures
of all animals throughout the course of a
bioassay. Statistically signiﬁcant results
would be available at earlier stages of a

 

 

Horseshoe crab grabs
another convert

Not long ago the Quarterly sang the praises
of Limqus, the horseshoe crab which is
giving its blood — without harm to itself — to
test for fever-producing pyrogens in in—
travenous drugs. Limulus is again in the
news. The most recent pharmaceutical com-
pany to switch from live rabbits to Limulus
blood is Mead Johnson. Company scientists
say they ﬁnd it cheaper, faster and more
sensitive. Lending emphatic support to this
ﬁnding is the Food and Drug Administration
itself which points out that the new test is 100
times more sensitive than the old and now
antiquated rabbit test.

10

 

study, and a study could be terminated as
soon as induced tumors were detected.
Thus some bioassays could be completed in
shorter time, with fewer animals and lower
cost.

“A.2 Chemotherapeutic Trials

“If it were possible to detect early tumor
growth and to measure tumor progression,
then it would be equally possible to measure
tumor regression in serial scans of chem-

otherapeutically treated transplantable
tumors. This could be a very important
development for laboratory tests of chem-
otherapeutic agents. . .”

Of special signiﬁcance is the reduction in
animal suffering since small tumors could
be accurately observed. Two of the three
“Rs” would be assisted: both Reduction and
Reﬁnement, since smaller numbers of
animals would be used for less painful tests.

A call for anesthesiologists

The Ad Hoc Committee of the New York
Academy of Sciences, conducted an all day
meeting on January 11, 1985, at the
Academy, on “Anesthesia for the Ex-
perimental Animal”. This is part of an
educational program of the committee, con-
cerning experimental animals. The pro-
ceedings will be published by the Academy.

Differences in the
anesthetic drugs, among the various species
(and even among the breeds and varieties
within one species) of experimental animals,
were discussed. Problems which were unique
to experimental animals were also mention-
ed. It was brought out, that some of these
problems in veterinary anesthesia, have
already been dealt with by physician
anesthesiologists in the past. A closer liaison
between the two, was urged. This should be
feasible because in many medical centers

pharmacology of

where experimental animals are anesthetiz-
ed, both veterinary and physician anesthesi-
ologists are available.

One point which was not brought up, is
that many research workers, often plan and
carry out anesthesia by themselves, without
beneﬁt of anesthesiologists. It is these
research workers who are expert in many
ﬁelds of basic or clinical sciences, who
should consult with a veterinary or physician
anesthesiologist. It is suggested that a
specialist in anesthesia, be a member of each
institutional animal research committee, to
oversee anesthesia, and analgesia, in ex-
perimental animals.

The proceedings, when available, can be
obtained by writing to Dr. Jeri Sechzer,
Chair: Ad Hoc Animal Research Commit-
tee, The New York Academy of Sciences, 2
East 63 Street, New York, N.Y., 10021

 

A subject baboon at the University of Pennsylvania Experimental Head Injury Lab.
An experienced anesthesiologist might have prevented much of the pain and suffering these

animals underwent.




 

 

 

Animal abuse linked to

New research conﬁrms the important link
between childhood cruelty to animals and
aggression later in life. Childhood cruelty,
often informally thought to predict violent
criminal behavior, has nonetheless been
largely ignored by the scientiﬁc community.
The scarce existing literature is both con-
ﬂicting and inconclusive.

Steven Kellert, responding to the lack of
documentation in this area, released a study
which attests to the importance of this rela-
tionship and establishes a preliminary
classiﬁcation system of motivations for
animal cruelty. Kellert, whose previous work
includes a study on attitudes towards
animals, is an Associate Professor at the Yale

school of Forestry and Environmental
Studies.

Kellert interviewed 152 men including,
“aggressive criminals,” “nonaggressive

criminals,” and “noncriminals.” His ﬁnd—
ings substantiate the predictive value of
childhood cruelty. Many of the prisoners in-
terviewed admitted to various childhood acts
of torture to pets, wildlife and livestock; in-
cluding burning, blinding and exploding
animals as well as “skinning a trapped
animal alive.” Also cited were “harsh acts of
punishment during the training of an animal,
participating in cock ﬁghts and sexual play
with an animal.” Altogether, the subjects
reported committing 373 acts “involving
some degree of undue harm, violence, or
cruelty towards animals as measured by the
various indicators.”

The biggest frequency of this abuse occur-
red among aggressive criminals. “25%

reported 5 or more childhood cruelties
toward animals, compared to less than 6%
of moderate and non-aggressive criminals
and no occurrence among noncriminals.”
Aggressive criminals also rated signiﬁcantly
higher on a scale designed to measure

 
   
        
 
         
        
        
 
   
       
       

  

Animal Welfare Institute

Scientific Committee

Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D.
Bennett Derby, M.D.

F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D.
Roger Payne, Ph.D.
Samuel Peacock, M.D.
John Walsh, M.D.

Staff

Patrick Allen, Editorial Consultant

Cynthia A. Bank, Executive Assistant
Elizabeth E. Cory, Publicatidns Coordinator
Jessie Despard, Administrative Assistant

International Committee

Aline S. de Aluja D.V.M. — Mexico

T.G. Antikas,, D.V.M. — Greece
Ambassador Tabarak Husain — Bangladesh
Angela King — United Kingdom

Simon Muchiru — Kenya

David Ricardo — Canada

Godofredo Stutzin — Chile

Ambassador Fumihiko Togo — Japan

N.E. Wernberg - Denmark

 

Violent crime

childhood animal cruelty. Judging from the
statistical evidence, Kellert notices “only two
groups distinctively emerging on the child-
hood aggressiveness scale — aggressive
criminals and all others.”

The most severe cases of animal abuse re-
vealed that, when compared to their nonag-
gressive counterparts, “abusive aggressive
criminals” were more likely to inﬂict pain on
a variety of species in a variety of ways. Vir-
tually all of them had abused dogs and cats,
often repeatedly. Remarkable too, is the lack
of remorse displayed by the aggressors. In-
deed, reﬂecting upon the act of tossing a cat
in front of a moving car, one such prisoner
remarked that he “enjoyed it” while another
multiple offender explains that his cruelties
were for “fun and excitement.” Kellert
describes one subject who “reported snap-
ping the necks of animals, shooting birds,
and exploding a cat in a microwave oven as a
youth. When asked to describe his feelings
about these behaviors, he remarked it was
done ‘for kicks, for fun (that he) felt
nothing’ ’ ’.

What prompts children, [who often
possess an innate afﬁnity towards animals] to
commit such atrocities? Kellert cites family
violence and alcoholism as contributing fac-
tors. Three quarters of the aggressive
criminals were subjected to “excessive and
repeated child abuse, compared to only 31%
of nonaggressive criminals and only 10%
among noncriminals” Interestingly, out of
the noncriminals who were abused, almost
all reported incidents of cruelty to animals.
Kellert discusses two types of family situa—
tions which he found fostered Violent
behavior twoards animals. In the ﬁrst,
animal abuse represented displaced hostility
against the parent, and thereby functioned
as a means of venting anger and frustration.
Childhood cruelty might also occur when the

Officers

Diane Halverson, Research Associate
for livestock and poultry

Lynne Hutchison, Whale Campaign Secretary

Cathy Liss, Research Associate

Christine Stevens, President
Cynthia Wilson, Vice President
Marjorie Cooke, Secretary
Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer

 

child witnesses a parent abuse animals. In
this case, the child imitates this behavior and
the aggression is learned.

Kellert encountered a number of motiva-
tions for animal cruelty during the course of
his research and, based on this data, was
able to devise a classiﬁcation system. Most of
the men interviewed displayed more than
one motivation for their action. some of the
motivations cited include the desire to exert
control or retaliate against an animal for
perceived wrongdoings. Often the aggressors
want to shock, amuse or impress others and
some simply derive sadistic pleasure.

Kellert’s research should alert those in the
social serVices (and society at large) to take
heed when children display aggression
towards animals. Such behavior signals the
need for intervention to protect the animal
and to protect society against violent crime.
And, as Kellert concludes, “the evolution of
a more gentle and benign relationship in
human society might be enhanced by our pro-
motion of a more positive and nurturing ethic
between children and animals.”

Jessie Despard

Kyoto Cruelty

The Japan Animal Welfare Society
(JAWS) is trying to stop cruelty to dogs and
cats at local Hokenshos and the Animal Con-
trol Center in Kyoto Prefecture. At Hoken-
shos animals are taken in daily but sent on to
the Control Center only once a week and
sometimes only once a fortnight. During this
waiting period they are neither fed nor
watered and thus often die of hunger and
thirst or, in winter, freeze to death. At the
Center itself, a 3-hour drive away, incoming
dogs are not allowed to slake their thirst even
in severe summer heat. The stated reason for
this is that giving water to the dogs may kill
them.

Directors

John Beary, M.D.
Madeleine Bemelmans
Gerard Bertrand Ph.D.
Marjorie Cooke
Christabel Gough
David 0. Hill

Sue Hunt

Freebom G. Jewett, Jr.
Christine Stevens
Aileen Train

Cynthia Wilson

Nell Naughton, Mail Order Secretary
Greta Nilsson, Wildlife Consultant
Adele Schoepperle, Assistant Treasurer
Louise Wright, Research Assistant




An appeal from Nick Carter, Consultant,

Kaokoland and Samaraland in Namibia
are home for the desert-living elephant,
rhino and giraffe. The last relict populations
of these animals, uniquely adapted to desert
conditions, have been successfully protected
from poachers by a handful of dedicated
people. The area is vast, their resources piti-
fully small. Less than 50 rhino, and less than
70 elephants remain. After ﬁve years
drought, a few calves have been sighted,
born following the long awaited rain. The
promise of survival!

The people who do the work in this wild,
harsh land of unbelievable grandeur and
beauty, raise their own funds. They give all
of themselves. Recognizing this, the native
Damaras have thanked them and want them
to continue, and want to cooperate with
them. Their work has the heart of the peo-
ple.

The team has produced a Namib Habitat
Calendar for 1985. It contains twelve mag-
niﬁcent photos of the animals and the coun—
try and costs $7.00.

Please support their efforts and buy a
calendar or two from them to help save the
animals remaining. Given a chance they can
recover their numbers. Given a bit of help
the Namib Centre can give them that
chance. No group anywhere in conservation
is more deserving.

The Namib Centre of the South West
Africa Wildlife Society, PO. Box 483,
Swakopmund 9000, SWA/Namibia needs
your help.

Michael Werihke, under the sponsorship of
the East African Wildlife Society, is planning
a 1,600 kilometer walk through three
African countries, Uganda, Kenya and Tan-
zania, to raise money for and attract atten-
tion to the African rhino.

Rhinos are increasingly threatened by
drought conditions, and much more severely
by sophisticated poachers. Through a pre—
vious 500 kilometer walk, Michael Werikhe
has already raised 280,000 Kenya shillings
for the Rhino Fund. Additional money will
be used for equipment for much needed
mobile anti-poaching patrols.

The previous walk was not a solitary one.

His pet snakes, Kifaru and Mombassa, were
draped around his neck for the full 24 days.
We assume, having developed a taste for
travel, they will join him again.

Any contributions to this most worthy ef-
fort may be sent to the World Society for the
Protection of Animals, 29 Perkins Street,
Boston, MA 02130. Funds so marked will be
forwarded to the Save The Rhino Fund.

When not walking for rhinos, Michael
Werihke works for a ﬁrm called Associated
Vehicle Assemblers in Mombassa where he
supervises the guard dog section, so he is able
to involve himself with animals even while he
earns his living.

The EVOIthion of National Wildlife Law by Michael Bean of the Environmental
Defense Fund has been reissued in a revised and expanded version. It covers wildlife law from its
beginnings to the present day, examines the conﬂict between federal and state control, and discusses recent
legislative programs forthe protection of wildlife. First published in 1977 by the Council on Environmental
Quality to wide acclaim, this updated version will be greeted no less warmly. It can be ordered from:
Praeger Press, 521 Fifth Avenue, New York, NY 10017. $12.95 paperbound, $39.95 clothbound.

12

En Vironmen ta] Investigation Agency.

 

 

Michael Werikhe

photo — Blythe Loutit

photo — W.S.P.A.

 




(4
§
2.
13>.
Q
Q
in
5
g
.%
E
a)
33
e
U
:4
E
K.)

 

PO BOX 3650

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20007

SPRING 1986

VOL. 35 NO. 1

 

judge Michael A. Telesca, US. District
Court Western District of New York, in
issuing a preliminary injunction against
hot-iron face branding of dairy cows,
wrote a land—mark opinion 16 April
1986. The Judge stated, “It has long
been the public policy of this country to
avoid unnecessary crueltyvto animals.
Beginning with New York State in 1828,
all 50 states and the District of Colum-
bia had adopted anti—cruelty laws by the
year 1913. (Animal Welfare Institute,
Animals and Their Legal Rights 13-14
(1978).) The Federal Government like-
wise has enacted anti—cruelty laws, such
as the Twenty-Eight Hour Law, 45
U.S.C. S 71 et seq. (governing transport
of livestock by rail), the Humane
Methods of Slaughter Act, 7 U.S.C. S
1901 et seq., and the Animal Welfare
Act, 7 U.S.C. S 2131 et seq. (governing

continued on page 2

A giant beaver inﬂatable propelled by
volunteer activist Peter Millington from
the Society for Animal Protective Legis-
lation has been photographed and video-
taped from coast to coast this spring in a
bid to rid the United States of the most
painful device for animal capture: the
steel jaw leghold trap.

Starting with the opening of the Inter-
national Fur Fair at the javits Center in
New York 12 April where police insisted
that the fake-fur-covered Betsy Beaver
be stationed across the street, a block
from the entrance. Millington reap-
peared at Fred the Furrier’s annual sale
then headed for Hartford, Connecticut
where he presented Betsy on the steps
of the Capitol. The next appearances
were on the Boston City Hall Plaza and
the State House in Providence, Rhode
Island, where the Governor smilingly
observed Betsy (Rhode Island has al-

Cow protests painful burn.

ready banned steel traps) and Burling-
ton and Montpelier, Vermont (where
legislation has been introduced but is
ﬁercely opposed). A wildlife sanctuary
near Albany, NY was the next stop then
on to Buffalo and Niagara Falls where
an Associated Press report noted, “A
foreign visitor came to the western tip of
New York as part of a nationwide drive
to ban steel-jaw leghold trapping of fur-
bearing animals . . . Englishman Peter
Millington had a 22-foot inﬂatable bea-
ver named Betsy strapped to his back on
Tuesday. But his point was more sober-
ing . . . Millington said the traps are
always unduly painful, and they indis-
criminately kill other species, such as
bald eagles.” Travelling by bus to
Columbus, Ohio; Chicago, Louisville,
and St. Louis, receiving favorable press

continued on page 5

Credit: AP/Wide World Photos

 

 




H 0 t'Iron B 70 "ding, continued

laboratory animals, as well as shipments
of animals and treatment of animals in
zoos). The Food Security Act of 1985,
the very statute under which the DTP
was created, strengthened the safeguards
of the Animal Welfare Act.”
Thejudge’s reference to “the DTP” is
short for “Dairy Termination Program,”
designed by Congress to solve the over-
production of milk by slaughtering some
900,000 to 1,500,000 dairy cows whose
owners would be compensated by the
government on agreeing to leave the
dairy industry for at least ﬁve years. The
Agricultural Stabilization and Conser-
vation Service (ASCS), the agency respon-
sible for carrying this out, took a stand
described byjudge Telesca as “arbitrary
and capricious” in insisting that the dairy
farmers brand all their cows and female
calves with a three-inch “X” (two inches
for calves) on the cheek using a hot-iron
to identify them and avoid fraudulent
“cow swapping.” ASCS issued a regula-
tion, LD 249, and stubbornly refused to
listen to dairy farmers, animal protective

organizations or veterinarians experi-*

enced in the readily available alternative
to hot-iron branding, namely the pain-
less freeze—branding invented more than
twenty years ago by a U.S. Department
of Agriculture veterinarian, Dr. Keith
Farrell. To prove its painlessness, Dr.
Farrell freeze branded himself. “The
sensations are as follows,” he wrote,
“for a very short interval after applica-
tion of the super-chilled iron there is a
distinct tingling sensation which I would
not describe as painful. . . This tingling
sensation was of very short duration, and
after the tingling had ceased, I had no
other sensation on the branded area.”

The Rochester and Monroe County
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals, joined by dairy farmers Doug-
las D. Burdick and Mary jane Burdick
successfully sued Secretary of Agricul-
ture Richard E. Lyng and acting admin-
istrator of the ASCS, Milton Hertz,
forcing them to allow farmers to use the
painless freeze branding instead of com-
pelling them to thrust a hot iron onto
the faces of their cows.

judge Telesca wrote, “. . . the testi-
mony before me indicates that defen-
dants have obviously entirely failed to
consider an important aspect of the
problem before them when they drafted
LD-249. Defendants argue that they
considered the aspect of cruelty to ani-
mals specifically when they rejected
freeze-branding. I reject this as not
credible . . . if cruelty to animals were

indeed a consideration, LD-249 would

2

[Caption from The Fresno Bee]

Dairyfarmer and his son hot-iron brand a cow. Note nose tongs necessary to restrain the struggling animal.

not be drafted the way it is. The only
testimony before me that hot-iron face
branding was not unnecessarily cruel
came from defendants’ witnesses who
had employed electric, thermostatically
controlled hot—iron brands. Yet LD-249
is written to require farmers to brand
solely with a hot-iron, whether or not
they have access to an electric branding
11011.

“It advises farmers that they can brand

their cows by heating any three inch
strip of iron, whether over a ﬁre or with
a blow torch then applying it to the cow
twice to get an X. Farmers are advised

Tears form on the side of the cow ’3 face after experiencing the pain of having the 3-inch “X” branded on her jaw.

 
    

 

Photo by. Ron Gable

§y

that an overheated iron can cause hair'
to burn which is particularly dangerous
because the brand is being applied just
below the cow’s eye. Yet farmers are ad-
vised to keep on trying until they get it
right. LD—249 clearly does not reﬂect
the views of an agency which gave sem-
ous consideration to the prevention of
cruelty to animals.”

“Accordingly, I ﬁnd that plaintiffs
have established a likelihood of success
on the merits of their claim that LD-249
is arbitrary and capricious. Because I so
find, I do not address the merits of

continued on facing page

 




 

Infants abroad are being poisoned by US baby turtles

A highly authoritative source, TheJoumal
of the American Medical Association (V 01 254
No. 2), reports that young children in
other lands are succumbing to Sal-
monella poisoning from handling pet
turtles imported from the U.S. This is
deeply shocking. From a medical stand-
point, though, it is totally unsurprising.

In the early 19703 very thorough
investigation by U.S. health authorities
revealed thousands of cases of salmo-
nellosis in American children who kept
pet turtles. As a result in 1975 the Food
and Drug Administrations of the United
States and Canada banned the domestic
sale and shipment of these creatures.

Unabashed, the industry turned its
attention to the overseas market. Be-
tween three and four million baby turtles
are shipped out every year. Principal
destinations includejapan, Hong Kong,
France, Spain, West Germany, Great
Britain. And right on our doorstep,
Puerto Rico.

According to a 1983 study conducted
in Puerto Rico, pet turtles accounted for
12-17% of reported cases of Salmonella
poisoning in infants. The authors of the
study (whose ﬁndings are published in
the medical journal referred to earlier)
point out that in the U.S. only 1% of
Salmonella infections get reported. On
the supposition that Puerto Rican citi-
zens are similar in this regard, then one
in every 10 turtles imported from the
U.S. causes salmonellosis.

In support of this alarming conjec-

ture are the ﬁndings from tests done in
18 Puerto Rican pet shops. Six turtles
per shop were tested. And in all 18
shops one or more turtles were found
positive for one or another type of
Salmonella. The most prevalent type,
found in no fewer than 16 of the shops,
was the rare Salmonella pomona.

At the same time pet turtles in Guam
were also found to be positive for this
rare type of Salmonella, while Yugo-
slavia reported its ﬁrst-ever case. There
is one U.S. turtle farm, and only one,
who supplies Puerto Rico, Guam and
Yugoslavia. The evidence is virtually
conclusive that the infection was ex-
ported, along with the baby turtles;
it was not home grown.

Where an industry is prepared know-
ingly to export infection abroad—and
of a kind to which infants are peculiarly
vulnerable— it is up to the government
to step in and stop it. In this instance all
that is required is to make the domestic
ban on the sale of pet turtles a total ban.

As things stand, however, the pressure
is in the reverse direction. The industry
is challenging the domestic ban on the
grounds that it has solved the problem
of contamination. The proposed “solu-
tion” is a cruel one for the baby turtles
since it involves removing them from
any semblance of natural housing. Fur-
thermore, according to an editorial which
appears in the same issue of TheJoumal
of the American Medical Association as the
report on the Salmonella study, we

 

 

H Ot'I Ton Branding, continued from page 2

plaintiffs’ claims that LD-249 contra-
venes state anti-cruelty statutes, was
enacted without publication in violation
of5 U.S.C. S 552, or constitutes an im-
permissible delegation of authority to
the ASCS.

“I further ﬁnd that irreparable harm
would result to plaintiffs if an injunc-
tion were not granted. On the testimony
before me, the hot-iron face branding
of cows appears to constitute a viola-
tion of the state anti-cruelty laws which
the Humane Society is sworn to prevent.
In addition, by branding their cows, the
Burdicks would expose themselves to
prosecution for violation of New York
Agriculture and Markets Law § 353.
Even more important is the prospect of
not qualifying for the program if they
fail to brand their cows within 15 days of
acceptance. Membership in the program

is limited to those applicants accepted
as ofl April 1986.

Conclusion

“It is evident to me, as it should have
been to the Department of Agriculture,
that the type of branding espoused in
LD-249 constitutes cruelty to animals.
If the ASCS had been as concerned with
cruelty to animals as they now claim to
be, LD—249 would never have been
adopted. The testimony before me clearly
establishes that freeze-branding is a via—
able alternative to hot-iron branding
since it causes less pain to cows and ac-
complishes all of the objectives outlined
by defendants. Had defendants truly
been concerned with preventing unnec-
essary cruelty to animals, they would
have at least allowed farmers the option
of either method.”

quote:

“Disinfection of turtles by using
gentamicin, referred to as the Siebling
method, reduces but apparently does
not eliminate Salmonella from turtles
after hatching, and it would not pre-
vent turtles from being recontami-
nated. The industry’s answer to post-
hatch contamination is a sterile plastic
bubble for shipping and marketing.
The potential for re-emergence of
latent infection of cross-contamination
in the home subsequent to sale is a real
concern in an animal that serves as a
biologic sponge for Salmonella.”

The editorial is titled Boundaries of
Conscience. Clearly the industry has over-
stepped these boundaries. And the gov-
ernment stands accused of guilt by
association. It could have acted. It has
not. It should do so—fast.

In addition to this health problem
with disturbing moral overtones, there
is also a conservation aspect and an
important one. To replace breeding
stock which has perished and which is
needed to supply its huge export of
baby turtles, the industry is taking an
estimated 100,000 adult turtles from
the wild every year. The baby turtles
sold as pets rarely survive to adulthood.
Most succumb to nutritional deﬁciency
characterized by swollen eyes progress-
ing to blindness. The suffering caused
by this trade is intrinsic to it.

 

In accordance with thejudge’s ruling,
ASCS notiﬁed its state and county ofﬁ-
ces to inform farmers that LD-249, the
compulsory hot-iron branding rule, had
been withdrawn. The Animal and Plant
Health Inspection Service, to whom the
responsibility of providing advice was
then delegated by ASCS, issued a state-
ment that freeze branding was “the
humane way to go.”

Figures are not available on the num-
bers of cows and calves that suffered
hot-iron branding on their faces before
Judge Telesca came to their rescue.
Diane Halverson, AWI’s staffer on farm
animals, learned of calves whose hot-
iron brands became infected, causing
still further suffering to these perse-
cuted youngsters, victims of a stubbornly
archaic ASCS bureaucracy and political
inﬂuence.

 

 




 

Is captive breeding for hard-pressed primates the solution or part of the problem?

Can captive breeding really help primates?

Man is one of around 200 primate species. But while hisonumbers are soarlng
the populations of almost all other primates have declined sharply. Indeed
many have now sunk to the level where survival itself 18 at rlsk. And others are
pointed that way. The principal causes of this decline are the destructlon of
the rainforests where most primates live and the plunderlng of speC1es from
the wild for the purposes of biomedical research. Since national parks have
proved no secure sanctuary for hard-pressed primates, captive breedmgm-
creasingly beckons as the one solution that can guarantee spec1es surv1val
with the hope of eventual repopulation in the w11d.

Captive breeding, though, is no
straightforward panacea. True, 127 of
the world’s 200 primate species have
bred in captivity. But for only eight of
these species does the effective popula-
tion size, corrected for sex ratio, exceed
100 which is the ﬁgure regarded as
providing a self-sustaining population.
Captive breeding requires a lot of time
and a lot of expertise.

It also requires a lot of money. With
the collapse of primate populations
during the 19705 and growing public

hostility to the primate trade, the Na-
tional Institutes of Health decided to
support the captive breeding of rhesus
macaques and other primates.
Nowadays some 6000 captive-bred
macaques are purchased annually by
US. research laboratories at a cost of
about $1000 each. That’s a total of $6
million. Set this ﬁgure against the beg-
garly $900 which is the entire national
parks budget for Madagascar—all of
whose primate species are in deep
trouble—and the contrast is stark to the

 

USC code of ethics

The USC Animal Ethics Review Board holds
monthly meetings and its members (com-
posed of an inter-disciplinary group most of
whom have no vested interest in animal
research) have access to all activities invol-
ving the use of animals at the University of
Southern California. The Board has adopted
the following code of ethics.

1. Investigators have a moral obliga-
tion to abide by the humanitarian
dictum that animals not be subjected
to unnecessary pain or distress.

2. Alternative endpoints should be
sought for all LD 0 studies such as
as toxicological an biological testing.
The LD50 requirement for an end-
point of death in the face of distinct
and irreversible signs that toxicity,
infectious processes or tumor growth
have been reached and are causing
severe pain and distress, clearly is not in
accord with the principles contained in this
document.

3. Approval of a protocol will not be
based upon economic consideration
or convenience of the procedures in-
volved.

4. Experiments involving the withhold—
ing of food and water should be
designed to be as short-term as possi-
ble and result in the least detrimental
effect on the health of the animal.

5. Prolonged physical restraint proce-
dures are prohibited. Short term phys-
ical restraint procedures should only.

be considered after alternative proce-
dures have been considered and found
to be inadequate.

6. If pain or distress are necessary con-
comitants of an approved protocol,
these should be minimized both in
intensity and duration. In no case
should pain and distress result in
suffering, i.e., that degree of pain
which causes signiﬁcant behavioral dis-
tress or change in the animal.

7. An animal that is observed to be in a
state of severe pain which cannot be
alleviated should be immediately eu-
thanized using a humane, acceptable
method which must include, as an
initial action, rapid inducement of
unconsciousness.

8. No animal shall be subjected to mul-
tiple operations, except when they are
interrelated and essential to the pri-
mary surgical objective.

9. Potentially painful experiments, other-
wise consistent with the Code, may be
conducted provided the animal is
anesthetized and insensitive to pain
during an entire procedure, and eu-
thanized before regaining ,con-
sc1ousness.

10. All protocols for experiments invol-
ving animals shall be approved by the
Animal Ethics Review Board.

11. This University shall expect each In—
vestigator to consider alternatives to
the use of animals in research or
teaching before presenting a protocol
for the use of live animals. The signed
protocol should contain a statement
to that effect.

point of absurdity.

There are those who seize on this and
similar disparities (examples could be
multiplied ad nauseam) to argue that if
conservation were realistically funded,
then local people could be better in-
formed and national parks could be
better protected. This would mean that
many species would not be in the dire
peril that they are—a peril that is exacer-
bated by captive-breeding projects which
in their early stages need constant infu-
sions of wild stock to build up numbers.

On the other. hand there are those
who contend that for many primates
and other hard-pressed species, captive
breeding—costly though it certainly is
and risky though it may be— provides in
a fairly desperate situation the best
available defense against the ultimate
tragedy, the “ﬁnal solution,” of extinc-
tion.

 




More than 80 conservation activists from V
the United States, Latin America, southeast

Rainforest alliance forged

action is the last remaining rainforest in
the U. S. This is in the Volcanoes National
Park on the island of Hawaii. It is

boycott of the oﬂending restaurants is being
planned.

Meanwhile, Friends of the Earth

 

Asia and Africa met in San Francisco ﬁrr

three days in November. They have ﬁrrged a
global alliance to stop the onslaught on the
rainforests and to promote their sustainable

threatened by a geothermal energy project.
A big issue in Central America is the
conversion of rainforest to beef cattle pasture

use. A prime target will be “boondoggle” to supply the fast—food chains in the U. S.

development schemes funded by the inter-

national banks and institutions.

One forest that is slated for priority

and elsewhere. Since the pasture soon
becomes unproductive the ﬁrrests are under
ceaseless attack and are vanishing fast. A

UK has also launched a tropical forests
campaign. FoE claims to have reached
agreement in principle with the Timber
Trade Federation on a code of practice
regarding tropical hardwoods. Consumers
are being urged not to buy mahogany or
teak furniture.

Our own best seller list

The Endangered Species Handbook by Greta
Nilsson was ﬁrst published in 1983.
Because of the great interest this book
aroused, The Animal Welfare Institute
has just published a revised edition fea-
turing an index, suggested by Sir Peter
Scott, the eminent naturalist and winner
of the 1986 j. Paul Getty Wildlife Con-
servation Prize, the “Nobel Prize of
Conservation.” Incorporated in the re-
vision is an updated series of lists of
endangered species, which has also been
bound separately so that present owners
of the ﬁrst edition can purchase it and
slip it into their volume.

The Handbook is divided into two
general sections, 1) \ anishing Species,
Causes and Consequences and 2) Legis—

lation and Programs, including Inter-
national Treaties. There are still projects
for classrooms and science fairs and col-
lated lists of source material for student
and teacher.

The price for the updated Handbook,
$5 is, miraculously, the same as the old.
Teachers may, as before, order a free
copy of the newly prepared endangered
species listing by sending a request on
their school letterhead. Others may
send $1 for the updated listings which
include the International Union for the
Conservation of Nature’s Red Data Book,
the US. list and those of the states as
well as the listing of the Convention on
International Trade in Endangered
Species of Wild Fauna and Flora.

 

Betsy Beaver continued from page 1

coverage wherever he went, he demon-
strated the power of the trap’s steel jaws
on a televised talk show in Kansas City,
then ﬂew to Denver and Los Angeles,
with presentations in Palo Alto, Sacra-
mento and San Francisco where hun-
dreds of copies of informative leaflets
about the needless agony being inﬂicted
by steel traps were distributed. Milling-
ton’s plans include stops in Houston,
Texas; Mobile, Alabama; Atlanta, Geor-
gia; Orlando, Tampa, Miami and jack—
sonville, Florida; and jackson, Missi-
ssippi.

Many local animal protective groups
have taken active part in focussing atten-
tion on the message brought by the
gigantic but lovable beaver.

  




BETS_Y COMES TO BOSTON

COLUMBUé. Oil

’2’“... '. 7., ;- '1 j. [31325127213

BOSTON. MA
THE BOSTON GLOBE

BRADFORD, PA
0. 520.001 sun. 797.788

D. 12.166

APR 08 1986

 

a; .
RALLYTNG AGAINST LEGHOLD TRAPS
- Peter Millin

ma. England. guides his large inilatable replica oi a beaveggti:
rail steps oi the State Capitol in Harrisburg on Monday addressing a
cl airyn urgin the ban oi use at legholds to trap animals. Millington, who
s to be a British environmentalist working with the Society ior
support

Animal Protective Legislation, came to Harrisburg to lend his

to passage oi legislation banning such legbolds.
l’f‘?‘W'?‘mE”“1”5?i :~ : '7 .--~_.~.

. , _. (TX)
Austin American-Statesman
Friday. May 23. 1986

‘ \ to”.

i .,

THE NEW YORK TIMES, WEDNESDAY, APRIL 9, I986

FHEDERICKSBURG. VA
FREE LANCE STAR
0. 31.447

CHICAGO. IL
CHICAGO TRIBUNE
0.776.350 sun. 1.137.670
SAT. 533.117

.A

BILOXI. MS
SUN-HERALD
0. 46,753 sun. 49.302

i

MAY 17 1986 .‘; ~ ‘5"; “;§‘

’Betsy Beaver' fights
against steel-jaw traps

piansAgainst Steel—Jaw Traps) of Bi-
ioxr, is Sponsormg the visit of Betsy
Beaver and her ter.

9 4“,. ‘ v _ 3'" .»
, ﬁeﬁg ‘

Dispatch photo by Tim Revolt

Trapping protest

THE TIMES a" .
mov him“

1

0. 45.940

APR 22 1986 .

Not-so-tender trap
Paul Millington sets off a steel-'w lgghold beam; trap

Givinga .‘dam’

Iii/its umon
. BANY, NY
Ll. 87.386 SUN. 103.375

' ' when? I

{a 1‘ '
a. as

The Milli Herald / WM. Jill. C. 198‘
M

vs“ 53., .....I

ALAN FI‘UNO I Miami Herald Sta”

Ron Palamara helps strap Peter Miliington into Betsy. the inﬂatable beaver he

a“
a

Campaign
against use
at traps
A 24400! tall inﬂatable
beaver named Betsy
stood tab In lront ot the
bile Plaza on the
16th Street Mall yester-
day as part at a nation-

wide campaign against .'

steel-law Ieghold traps.

"y '3’ Beaver packs a strong message

NIAGARA FALLS GAZETTE
NIAGARA FALLS. NY
0. 29.265 3. 30.005

APR 23 1986

THE COURIER-JOURNAL
LOUISVILLE, KY
D. 174.400

APR 29 1986

Csiriaaed iron: Page 3 l ,
said. “it causes pain and It traps ani-
mals Indiscriminately."

Howard nodded.

"it sounds like a good Idea." he
said. scrutinizing the beaver. "Looks
real. too."

Millington said the costume was
made by a manufacturer of hot-air
balloons. it weighs 40 pounds dry
and a lot more wet. prompting him
to keep it under the store canopy
until morning showers diminished.

BeLInda King and Margret Brod-
Iey couldn’t resin petting the bee-
ver's sort. iurry hide.

Ms. King asked the wrong ques-
tiom “Is this real fur?”

"Not" Millington snapped. “it's
take fur."

"' "re! the same way." she said. “i
can't kill animals."

uses to gather support for a proposed federal ban on steel traps.
' * . ' . .1 w.

' a

Rocky Mountain News~

w; 1005., May 6. 1986. Denver, Colo.

Beaver bounces a

By ROBIN CARR
mu m

Most people stopped and stared
when they saw the 22-ioot-tall. grin-
ning. buck-toothed beaver bouncing
down Lmiisvllle's Fourth Avenue
mall yesterday.

Then they laughed.

And then they got a menarlge.

“People catch beavers In steel
traps." said English actor and envi-
ronmentalist Peter Millington. who
wore the towering beaver strapped
to his back like a hiker‘s pack.

“We think that's bad."

“Look at this dog. man." Ga'ry told
his brother in horror. “This dog got
his little toot snapped off by one oi
these traps." ‘ - _'

The brothers said they liked lhe
beaver and agreed with its message.

“It’s like right there in iron? 0!
your race." Gerry said. "It's liket'ell-
tag you. ’Stop and think.’ " '

Millington kept it up as lunohiirne
brought more people into thestreet.
l-le bobbed and weaved. ducked un-
der a restaurant sign and posed 101‘
pictures alonaide the Derby. Clock.

Two women spotted the beast fast
as they popped out oi a store.

"Oh. my goodness. took." one
said. “We're iollowing a beaver!

Her friend asked: "Is that a bee—
ver? With that size at a tail. it's got
to be a beaver."

The iirst woman agreed.

Eire {Iranihrnrr admiral

PROVIDENCE. R. I.
0. 34275 sun. 252.205

olournal-Bulietin Photo by FRIEDA SQUIRES

O JACKSON DAILY NEWS. Wednesday. May 28, 1988

Raindrops were spatterlng the
mall beiore midday when Milling-
ton. who's touring the United States
under the auspices oi the non-proﬁt
Society ior Animal Protective Legis-
lation. pulled the iurry costume
irom a big canvas bag.

lie stretched it out beneath the
canopy oi the long-vacant J. C. Pen-
ney's store. wired a battery to a tiny
air pump and stood back.

it Inﬂated in seconds with a bias-
in “."Pffffﬂfﬂft putting out to a
beaver's pudgy. rounded iorm. corn-
plete with big eyes, buck teeth and a

o

'11.: ~. " ' autoimmune .~

mess‘ag

black. ridged-plastic tall ,the size at
an air mattreu.

This was an unusual sight even by
the casual standards oi the mall's
500 block, borne oi the Derby Clock.
vacant storetronts. wig shops and
discount stores oiiering perpetual
sales.

Security guard Guy Howard said
he's worked in the Penney's build-
ing ior 20 years and has never seen
such a thing as this.

But he thought he knew what was

ng on.
“it's tor the parade. right?"

Nope.

A woman chimed In: “is It about
the zoo?" - ..

Wrong again. ;

Local animal-rights activist Tanya
Tuell distributed literature urging
taxpayers to write their US. repre-
sentatives in support at legidiation
that would ban interstate sale oi
steel leghold traps.

“We’re not opposed to trapping
but to this speclilc trap.” Millingion

See BEAVE
PAGE 1. col. I. this section

2‘

r- o -' .- ‘ - -
‘ “‘9’... . ‘ . ,..‘ ' ' ’ ‘ ,‘ . ,- -: ' _ . ~. “1 fish. but 1 won't hunt." a bus:- “it's cute." she said.

J, 5....“ .- 3' 5% -" ' “am“ said- Millington bounced along and the
.lu.“~i’“_’*"~, in?“ - ". NEW HAVEN Twins Gary and Gerry Board beaver grinned back at the laughing
-‘-‘ -‘ '- " . * "yh'. ' t‘ «A DAY ' scrutinized the group's poster. which crowds. all the way irorn Guthrie to

‘ SUN ' 6 featured snapshots oi animals Chestnut Street. then north to Mu-
APRIl 6. '98 caught in traps and photos at imh- hammad All and back to Guthrie
ionable women wearing iur coats. again.

MACON GA
TELEGRAPH Ann NEWS BnAmrsaono, vr WEE} 3° P t - . .
0. 68,925 sun. 90.100 REFGAMEB n. 20.5“ - . 9 er M“Milton. volunteer coor-
sn, 57.212 DAILY 9.000 - . 33:63“ the, 5991110! Animal
, , _. .... .9, MSpmsen'
the batters. The spr'mg tour Gov-cit:
8.“)0 mics and more that I!) cities

 




Beauty Without Cruelty International

Greece—land of furs unlimited

The sheer number of fur shops in
Greece is staggering—the small island
of Rhodes has over 200! The fur trade
boom in this country is a result of low
labour costs and low taxes (the lowest in
the EEC) making it possible to retail
furs relatively cheaply. In America and
in other parts of Europe the tourist
season is short and stores work with a
high proﬁt margin. However in Rhodes
there are foreign tourists seven months
of the year plus Greek tourists during
the winter months enabling furriers to
keep proﬁt margins low throughout the
year.

The fur trade in Greece dates back
thousands of years to Kastoria a small
town in the north of the country. Work—
ers specialized in creating garments out
of small pieces of fur, a unique skill
which anywhere else in the world would
double the price of the garment. Many

 

The fur shops are packed with
eveiy type of ranched and wild skin
including an abundance of CITES

Appendix I species.

 

Kastorian Greeks have moved and some
have emigrated, thus keeping this skill
alive. By working with small pieces and
off—cuts of furs, they often do not need
to purchase an entire skin and this
factor contributes signiﬁcantly to the
low retail price.

The Greek fur industry is big business
catering mostly to the foreign tourist. In
1985, 6.6 million tourists were expected.
The fur shops are packed with every
type of ranched and wild skin including
an abundance of CITES Appendix '1
species. Every shop I visited (approxi-
mately 60) had a good selection of coats
made from leopard, cheetah, ocelot

and jaguar. Some of the shop managers
I questioned had no idea what consti-
tuted an endangered species and one
manager informed me that there would
be no problem in taking an ocelot or
jaguar coat back to South Africa as they
are not only indigenous there but
abundant!

The general attitude of Greek furriers
is that it is their duty to stock and sup-
ply the widest possible variety of pelts,
and spotted skins are apparently in
great demand. Some of the prices of full
length coats were as follows: leopard,
$5,000; blue ocelot, $5,500; wild sable,
$4,500; Canadian lynx, $10,000.

 

This blatant trade in garments
made from skins of endangered species
raises a number of doubts as to the
bona ﬁdes of the International
Fur Trade Federation.

 

Clients and would-be fur buyers are
being fed false information in order to
secure sales. On enquiring about seal-
skin coats I was shown something la—
belled “ﬁsh otter” and told that a ﬁsh
otter and a seal are one and the same
animal. On arguing the point it was
ﬁnally admitted that seal skin coats are
no longer labelled as such due to grow-
ing public hostility to seal-clubbing
which has been publicized by the anti-
sealing lobbyists.

In a large fur shop in Athens I dis-
cussed with the manager the possibility
of having a cheetah coat made up for
myself. He did not have cheetah skins
on the premises but he informed me
that he would have no trouble in obtain-
ing skins. As CITES regulations are
fairly well enforced in Britain I told him
I was a British citizen and asked him if I

would have problems in getting the coat
through Customs. I was told that I
would be given documentation stating
that the skins were “old stock” brought
prior to 1970. He informed me that
false documentation is given regularly
in order to get around this problem of
import regulations in the various coun-
tries;

This blatant trade in garments made
from skins of endangered species raises
a number of doubts as to the bonaﬁdes of
the International Fur Trade Federation
(IFTF). This body, always intent on
improving its public image, actively
publicizes its support of “true” conser-
vation issues and its concern for the
protection of endangered species. In—
deed the Federation has funded various
IUCN projects such as the leopard and
cheetah population survey in 1971. The
IFTF claim that the results of this survey
led to them introducing a voluntary ban
on these species and they even go as far
as stating that they were the prime
movers in establishing the Washington
Convention (otherwise known as CITES)
in 1973 protecting all endangered
spec1es.

It is glaringly obvious that the token
gestures to the IUCN in the form of
funds is just a clever exercise in public
relations. How is it possible that the
most powerful conservation organiza-
tion in the world is taken in by this ploy?
While the acceptance of Greenpeace as an
IUCN member was beset by contro-
versy and delay, IUCN councillors
readily granted membership to the
IFTF. This is surely, in the light of the
Federation’s palpable unconcern for
what is going on in Greece, a complete
mockery of the conservation cause.

Christine Berry

Photo: Beauty Without Cruelty International

 




Desperate plight of pedigree dogs inJapan

Once an animal becomes any sort of a problem to its Japanese owner, the
usual solution is to get rid of it. Since there is still widespread ignorance of
how to care for animals, such basic things as grooming, a nutritious diet,
adequate shelter, exercise and a visit to a vet if the animal is ill or injured, are
not necessarily envisaged as part of the owner’s duty. Without proper care,
long-haired breeds in particular can soon become unkempt, ﬁlthy, ﬂea-
infested and stinking and, therefore, “undesirable.”

Though very high prices may be paid
for a perfect purebred dog, there is no
tradition of companionship between
people and their animals. Any breeder
considering the export of animals to
Japan should attach great importance
to these two facts, since perfeCtion does
not last and there may be no bond of
affection for an animal to safeguard it
through its declining years. For the
progeny of a dog or cat which has been
exported to Japan there can be no
guarantee that a caring home will be
sought

The Japan Animal Welfare Society in
England, which gets ﬁrst-hand reports
of animal abuse from JAWS ﬁeldworkers
inJapan, has for a long time been trying
to persuade breeders not to export their
animals to Japan. And in recent years
the number of dogs exported from
Britain and Europe has fallen drama-
tically. In 1984 the combined total was
322.

But that same year, 1984, the U.S.
exported 7348 dogs toJapan—a country
where owners discard something like a
million animals a year. The local author-
ities, who are faced with the over-
whelming problem of disposing of these
poor creatures, destroy some and send
some for research. There is a never-
ending supply of dogs for experimenta-
tion and truckloads are regularly dumped
at the back of medical colleges and
teaching hospitals, just for the cost of
the transport. In Japan, dogs are the
Cheapest experimental animals to obtain,
house and feed—cheaper even than rats
and mice.

Every breeder considering the export
of animals to Japan should take note
that thoroughbred animals are preferred
by researchers as they are considered
more docile. Fieldworkers visiting animal
quarters in the hope of persuading
Ofﬁcials to make improvements cannot
easily forget the gentle purebreds they
have seen shivering in dark corners, nor
the vain pleas that some of them have
made to be allowed to buy such pitiful

 

Ramshackle kennel; bowl of filthy water. Such
conditions are all too common.

understanding of the need for a good
weatherproof kennel in a climate which
ranges from below-zero temperatures
in winter to scorching summer heat,
oppressive humidity and monsoon-type
rain. Magazines carry advertisements
for pretty wooden kennels with barred
fronts and corrugated metal roofs. The
measurements are shown and beside
each kennel stands a dog, pedigree of
course, of a size which will “ﬁt.” But it is
obvious that there is not sufﬁcient room

Photo: Ferguson

for turning round or lying at full stretch.
Animals are chained in these kennels
and the door is locked. They may be let
out for cleaning but there is a removable
tray, so many dogs will be boxed in for
life.

Over the years compassionate people,
both Japanese and Westerners, have
formed themselves into welfare groups
dedicated to helping unwanted animals;
all produce literature aimed at persuad-
ing owners to adopt a more responsible
attitude. There are, of course, caring
considerate owners, both well-to-do and
poor, who will provide every comfort
for their pet. But no ﬁeldworker would
ever be surprised to learn that the
darling of the family was to be aban-
doned when its owners moved to an
apartment where pets were not allowed,
or when a human baby was on the way.

Founded in 1954, JAWS spent most
of its early years campaigning, with
other groups, for an Animal Protection
Law. When this aim was ﬁnally achieved
in 1973, it was felt thatJapan had at last
stepped into the ranks of the advanced
nations; but this law has never been
properly administered and animals still
have little or no protection. For instance,
ﬁeldworkers found that neighbors com-
plained about the noise—not the cruelty
—when a mentally-disturbed youth
sometimes tortured the animals he kept.
No help came from the local police who
said that if it were children who were
being ill—treated, they could take action,
but not as it was animals.

Ivy Ferguson
Japan Animal Welfare Society, UK

Photo: Ferguson

Barely recognizable as an American Cocker Spaniel after years of neglect; a walking skeleton, under ﬁlthy
matted hair, infested with parasites; untreated cuts and wounds has resulted in massive infection, long curved
toenails curved under and into his pads. Shocked ﬁeldworkers asked why he had never been taken to a vet and

were told that he was “too ill—tempere .”

animals.

Even educated Japanese may not see
any cruelty in keeping a dog on the end
of a chain for life. There is often little

9

 




 

 

 

 

Kangaroo kill based
on myth not science

 

Myth rather than science has legitimized
Australia’s mass slaughter of kangaroos
and wallabies. So says the Australian
Committee of IUCN (International
Union for Conservation of Nature) fol-
lowing an enquiry conducted with
government wildlife agencies.

The IUCN Committee has found
that national kill quotas (almost two
million in 1985) are being set in the
absence of reliable data and it has
focused on the urgent need for research
into the “pest” status of kangaroos. All
nine of the wildlife management agencies
involved in this issue were asked for
their views on the matter.

Eight of the nine replied but only
four agreed that research was required
and none considered that it should
receive higher priority than research
into the smaller, less-well known mar-
supial macropod species. Yet the whole-
sale, government-backed slaughter
continues.

Says Dr. Mosley, Director of the
Australian Conservation Foundation:
“We cannot go on killing kangaroos at
this rate in the absence of solid scientiﬁc
evidence. Most Australians are becom-
ing aware that the industry is calling the
tune—and it’s the death-knell for a free
and gentle animal that all around the
world is the symbol of Australia.”

The Australian Conservation Founda-
tion has been in the van of attempts to
achieve scientiﬁcally-based conservation
of kangaroos. It is vehemently opposed
to kangaroos being killed for their com-
mercial value at the dictate of the
kangaroo industry.

10

Germans battle over hen battery cages

Is West Germany, or at any rate the State
of Hesse within the Federal Republic,
set to emulate Switzerland and outlaw
battery cages for hens? If the Social
Affairs Minister for Hesse, Armin Clauss,
has his way, the answer is Yes.

A battle, which has so far lasted for all
of eight years, is still going on to decide
this issue in Hesse. Twice, ﬁrst in 1979
and then again in 1985, a district court
has rejected the charge of cruelty brought
against some of the country’s largest
battery egg producers.

On the ﬁrst occasion this decision
was overturned by the High Court in
Frankfurt. The German government
then took the matter to the European
Commission and sat back to await the
verdict. They are still waiting.

 

 

Battery hens scramble for standing room in cruelly cramped cage.

Meantime, while the waiting game
continued, Hesse’s egg producers were
permitted to carry on as if the High
Court ruling had gone their way. But in
1984 Herr Clauss decided that failing
agreement at European or federal level,
the Frankfurt ruling must be upheld.
He ordered the wind-up of all battery
farming in the State.

Also that year a charge of cruelty was
again ﬁled by activists. In 1985 the case
came up in the same district court as
before—and again it was dismissed.
Herr Clauss, though, says he will not be
swayed by this verdict. Backed by the
earlier ruling of Frankfurt’s supreme
court of appeal, he intends to press
ahead with phasing out battery cages in
Hesse.

 

 

 

New International Committee Member
Professor Klaus Vestergaard of the Royal
Veterinary and Agricultural University,
Copenhagen, has accepted the Animal
Welfare Institute’s invitation to repre-
sent Denmark on the Institute’s Interna-
tional Committee, taking the place of re-
tiring member, N.E. Wernberg, who
greatly reduced animal suffering in
slaughterhouses through anesthetization
with carbon dioxide.

Dr. Vestergaard’s studies of farm ani-
mal behavior are internationally recog-
nized, particularly those on sows and lay-

drive that leads hens to dust bathe was
produced by Vestergaard and shown to
scientiﬁc audiences throughout the
United States during his recent lecture

 

Danish representation

ing hens. A ﬁlm showing the powerful‘

 

tour. A member of the board of Forenin-
gen Til Dyrenes Beskyttelse I Danmark,
The Society for the Protection of Animals
in Denmark, he is an accomplished bird
watcher with broad ornithological knowl-
edge.

 

 

J




Advice from down under helps Humphrey

When Frank Robson, author of Strand-
ings, saw television news clips in his
native New Zealand about Humphrey
the humpback whale whose migratory
urge went wrong in California waters
last October, he came to the rescue
through long distance discussion with
CBS radio.

As reported in New Zealand’s Daily
Telegraph, “Mr. Robson, 73, heard yes-
terday that marine mammalogists over-
seeing the whale’s journey had given up
their attempts to turn the 45-ton whale
back to sea. Latest reports put it at about
90 km up the Sacramento River.

“Mr. Robson has pioneered a method
for turning around stranded whales,
and he demonstrated its effectiveness
during a whale stranding at Westshore
abOUt 18 months ago.

“CBS radio in California accepted his
offer to help. . . Mr. Robson’s rescue

method involves skiﬁboard riders lead-
ing the whale back to sea, with gentle
coaxing from behind by boats. Skin-
divers initially get the whale moving by
touching the edges of its ﬂukes which are
sensitive. Mr. Robson described the
method in two issues of the International
Oceanographic Institute’s publication
Sea Frontier.”

In a recent letter to the AWI about
Humphrey’s rescue, Frank Robson
wrote: “To effect an ‘about turn’ we in
New Zealand enter the water and make
both physical and mental contact with
the whale. The rescuers must be capable
of conveying a mental picture of the ter-
rain which is confusing the whale. We
then demonstrate physically what we re-
quire the whale to do. Experience has
taught us that when the minds of
human and whale reach a compatible
state, the whale wholeheartedly accepts

guidance from humans.”

The Robsons were happy to view the
last Humphrey television sequence
showing the ﬂotilla of small boats escort-
ing the whale out into the open ocean.

In an article summarizing the much-
publicized 3-week odyssey of the whale,
Peter Aleshire of The Oakland Tribune esti-
mated that funds spent to get Humphrey
back to sea amounted to $85,000,
twenty-ﬁve thousand from the state of
California, the rest from the federal
government.

 

Strandings, Ways to Save Whales, by Frank
Robson, the classic book on whale and dol- .
phin rescue is now available at a third of the
original publication price (see AWIQ vol.
33, no. 2 for a review of the book). Indis-
pensable for individuals, organizations and
agencies active in returning stranded ceta-
ceans to the sea and in heading off threatened
strandings. A limited number will be avail-
able from AWI at cost. $16 hardcover. 124
pages. 27 photos. 20 illustrations.

 

 

Rare dolphins being driven to extinction

The National Marine Fisheries Service
has declared the cochito, the world’s
smallest cetacean, to be an endangered
species. In truth this Gulf of California
harbor porpoise has been severely en-
dangered for a great many years. No
cochito has been seen alive since 1980,
although the remains of two cochitos
were found on gulf beaches a year ago.

As with so many marine creatures,
porpoises and turtles in particular, the
cochito’s parlous plight can probably
be laid at the door of modern ﬁshing
ﬂeets with their diabolical shrimp-nets
and gillnets—gear guaranteed to snare
any number of “unwanted” species.

The unfortunate cochito, though, could
also have been hit by the damming of
the Colorado River. No longer is the
river unloading into the gulf generous
supplies of nutrients which used to feed
the ﬁsh that feed the cochito.

So the cochito is “endangered.” That’s
ofﬁcial. But what happens next? Nor-
mally an endangered species is the
beneﬁciary of a host of protective mea-
sures to aid it in its ﬁght for survival. But
the cochito inhabits only a portion of
the north Gulf of California which is
Mexican territory. Assistance must
therefore be a collaborative effort with
Mexico. Dr. Bernardo Villa-Roc of the

University of Mexico and Dr. Kenneth
Norris of the University of California
are continuing ﬁeld work on the status
of the cochito.

But another scientiﬁc project still fur-
ther reduced the cochito population last
year. Two males and ﬁve females, one of
which was an infant, were entangled in
the scientists’ gill nets set to catch an
endangered population of ﬁsh, the
Totoaba. All the cochitos were dead.
The project was directed by the
Guaymas Regional Fisheries Research
Center for the National Fisheries Insti-
tute of the Mexican Secretariat of Fish-
eries.

 

 

Animal Welfare Institute

Staff

Patrick Allen, Editorial Consultant

Cynthia A. Bank, Executive Assistant

jessie Despard, Administrative Assistant

Rose R. Eck, Administrative Assistant
for Communications

Scientiﬁc Committee International Committee Officers Directors
Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D. Aline S. de Aluja, D.V.M. - Mexico Christine Stevens, President John Beary, M.D.
Bennett Derby, M.D. T.G. Antikas, D.V.M. — Greece Cynthia Wilson, Vice President Madeleine Bemelmans
F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D. Ambassador Tabarak Husain — Bangladesh Marjorie Cooke, Secretary Gerard Bertrand, Ph.D.
Roger Payne, Ph.D. Angela King —- United Kingdom Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer Marjorie Cooke
Samuel Peacock, M.D. Simon Muchiru — Kenya Christabel Gough
john Walsh, M.D. David Ricardo —— Canada Davrd 0. Hill
Godofredo Stutzin — Chile Sue Hunt

Klaus Vestergaard— Denmark

Diane Halverson, Research Associate
for livestock and poultry
Lynne Hutchison, Whale Campaign Secretary
Cathy Liss, Research Associate
Nell Naughton, Mail Order Secretary

Freebom G. jewett, Jr.
Christine Stevens
Aileen Train

Cynthia Wilson

Greta Nilsson, Wildlife Consultant

Adele Schoepperle, Assistant Treasurer
Susan M. Wogan, Publications Coordinator
Louise Wright, Research Assistant

 

 

 

 

 

 

ll

 




 

 

 

Dingo traps should be put on the
scrapheap—not in the outback

What is the difference between the two steel-jaw dingo traps shown here?
Precious little—except that the top one was manufaCtured 100 years before
the “current model” beneath it. The Australian branch of World League for
Protection of Animals has put the question: “Is this unchanged diabolical
instrument of torture the best Australians can do in this age of high tech-

nology?

The question is of course rhetorical—ﬁred off in wrath at a dilatory
government for its abject refusal, year after year, to act on the ﬁndings of an
immensely painstaking study done by a “respectable” government body,

Wildlife and Rangelands Research.

The study, which had the collabora-
tion of 25 dingo trappers, lasted six
years culminating in 1975. A further
eight years passed before it was pub-
lished. But it is up-to-date in the depress-
ing sense that essentially nothing has
changed.

A prime excuse for the trapping of
dingoes is that they commonly prey on
sheep and calves. In fact only 26 of the
530 dingoes caught and examined had
sheep or cattle remains in their sto-
machs—remains which in any case were
quite often in the form of carrion.

The authors of the study point out
that stomach contents were in general
meagre. They suggest as a probable
cause the length of time the dingoes
were alive in the traps. In the remoter
parts of the Australian outback trap
lines, each with perhaps 50 traps on it,
may be set for a period of 2- 1 2 months!

Small chance here of the trapper being
on hand to put a trapped animal out of
Its misery.

American experience would predict
that non-target animals would also suf-
fer hideously. And so it turns out. The
study reports that over 20 species of
protected wildlife were caught in the traps
at the rate of two to three such species
for every dingo

Humane organizations in Australia,
as here in the U.S., are pressing hard for
a total ban on steel-jaw traps. But there,
as here, they are ﬁnding prejudice and
bureaucratic prevarication hard obsta-
cles to overcome. In the meantime the
Australian Conservation Foundation, sup-
ported by the WLPA, is calling for the
conservation rather than the mandatory
destruction of dingoes and their re-
moval from “all noxious animal, pest
and vermin lists.” Animals so listed are

A dingo trap I885

 

A dingo trap 1985

Photo: Douglas Baglin Pty. Ltd.

Photo: Ron Smith

Dingo pups

not protected from the steel—jaw trap
even in states-such as New South
Wales—which otherwise prohibit the
use of this ﬁendish device.

 

I

Trapping “Heritage”: big traps with teeth

A self-styled “master trapper-instruc-
tor” is resurrected in the Spring 1986
issue of The Voice of the Trapper as a
“Heritage Feature” from 1948. Recom-
mending huge traps with teeth for catch-
ing foxes, the four-page article by the
late John Ehn states:

“Even on bare ground the big traps
will make more catches. Of course, No.
4 traps catch many fox feet entirely too
high up where the legs have fewer
cords, causing some fox to wring out,
but to balance this many more fox are
taken to start with. More are taken by
two feet making wring-outs almost
impossible, and at the end of the sea—
son the big trap trapper will ﬁnd he has
more fox skins than if he had used
smaller traps. More foxes have left toes
in small traps than have left entire feet
in big traps, no matter how high they
were caught.

“1 made my best catches of foxes in
snow sets with No. 48 Newhouse traps.

12

This is the No. 4 with teeth, the jaws
come close together. (Do not confuse
the 48 with the Newhouse 14, which is
also a No. 4 with teeth but with jaws that
do not close tight; they were sold long
ago as deer traps.) There is most always
something between trap jaws as they
come together, crusts of frozen soil,
leaves, ice, etc., whatever stuff the trap-
per hid it with, and snow, sleet, dust,
etc., that fell or blowed or washed onto
it by rains after it was set. Teeth have the
advantage that they pierce through this
stuff into the foot where smooth jaws can
only squeeze this stuff together on each
side of the foot. Often an animal can
strip its foot out because the trash
offered padding and prevented the jaws
from biting into the foot. Worthy of
consideration is the fact that any make
or size of trap is most effective in the
hands of expert trappers. This means
that beginners need good big traps
worse than anybody else, but I often

see an unexperienced trapper trying
to trap with traps that are too small and
other equipment that even an experi-
enced trapper couldn’t get many ani-
mals with. The controversy concerning
No. 2 and larger traps for fox ﬁnally
simmers down to this: trappers who get
fox with No. 2 traps would get mOre
with No. 3 or 43 and those that can’t
catch them with No. 43 will gain nothing
by trying smaller traps. And here is
another angle to the efﬁciency of big
traps:

“Trappers who set only a few fox
traps and look at them every morning
will get most of the foxes caught by the
toes before they have time to escape,
while longline trappers who can’t tend
every set as early or often have a bigger
percentage of escapes; their catch per
trap per season is less than that of the
shortliner, but because they have so
many traps their season catch is high.”

 




THE

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

QUARTERLY

 

PO. BOX 3650

WASHINGTON, DC 20007

SUMMER 1986

VOL. 35, NO. 2

 

WHALING: Norway
escapes sanctions . . .

In earlyjune, with Norwegian Whalers
once more about their deadly business,
the U.S. Secretary of Commerce, as
required by the Pelly Amendment, cer—
tiﬁed Norway for its ﬂagrant breach of
the IWC moratorium. The certiﬁcation
empowers the President to embargo
Norwegian ﬁsh exports to the U.S.—-
worth $150 million a year—and re-
quires him to report his decision to
Congress within 60 days.

The President duly reported on 4
August. His letter stated that following
the Norwegian government’s undertak-
ing, given on 3 july, to cease commer—
cial whaling at the close of the 1987
season, he would not at present impose
sanctions.

Certiﬁcation of Norway continues,
though, until the country withdraws its
objection (asjapan has now done) to the
IWC moratorium. Sanctions thus re—
main an option should future develop-
ments require them. Norway has inti—
mated that it may switch to “scientiﬁc”
whaling after 1987.

. . . Iceland plays
“science” card

At the end of July the Icelandic Prime
Minister, complaining angrily that
Washington had issued an ultimatum
to cease whaling or face a “crippling
boycott” on ﬁsh products, ordered the
whalers to stop. In fact the so-called
ultimatum was simply the mandatory
certiﬁcation served—as in the case of
Norway—for resumption of whaling. It
did appear, however, that Iceland,
whose ﬁsh exports to the U.S. account
for 30% of all Icelandic exports, had
belatedly seen the error of its ways.
Not so. The “stop” order turned out
to be merely a ruse to gain time. The
intention is, as before, to continue kill-

ing 120 whales a year under the guise of
“scientiﬁc catch” despite the blunt in-
sistence of the IWC Scientiﬁc Commit-
tee that the kill would add nothing to
existing knowledge and could therefore
have no scientiﬁc justiﬁcation.

On 6 August Iceland informed the
United States that its domestic con-
sumption of whale meat would be sub-

 

} : . . .
" Drawing courtesy of Sc1ence magazine

 

“I strongly mistrust science based on
dead whales when we have so many
available techniques for studying the
living whale. Killing whales in the name
of science contributes nothing to
conservation or science.”
—Sir Peter Scott

 

stantially increased—japan having re-
fused to import (without U.S. approval)
any meat from whales caught in 1986.
Iceland also bizarrely asserted that this
action was consistent with the IWC’s
recent resolution on scientiﬁc whaling.
To which Secretary Baldrige riposted:
“The decision announced by Iceland is
clearly not in the spirit of IWC conser-
vation goals. We are very disappointed
and cannot condone it.”

Supreme Court
vs. Whales

The Supreme Court of the United States
seemed haunted by the passionate
whale killers of the past in issuing its 5-4
decision against the whales onjune 30,
1986, reversing decisions of the District
Court and Court of Appeals.

The Majority opinion> begins; “For
centuries, men have hunted whales in
order to obtain both food and oil, which
in turn, can be processed into a myriad
of other products. Although at one time
a harrowing and perilous profession,
modern technological innovation have
transformed whaling into a routine
form of commercial ﬁshing and have
allowed for a multifold increase in
whale harvests worldwide.”

Note the words “processed,” “pro—
ducts,” “harvests” as if today’s pitifully
reduced population of the great whales
still could support the business enter—
prises that once made men rich.

There is no hint in the opinion writ-

ten byjustice White of any understand-
ing of the endangerment of whales, of
the potential of their enormous and
highly convoluted brains, of the history
of the long worldwide struggle to con-
trol the rapacity ofjapan in destruction
of the different whale species. Although
the majority decision is twice as lengthy
as the minority opinion, it rests on legal
grounds so narrow as to be invisible to
the layman’s eye, and it naively assumes
“the certainty ofjapan’s future compli—
ance.”

Already Japan has announced its in-

tention of calling the killing of sperm
continued on page 2

 




 

Supreme Court VS Whales, continued from page 1

whales along its coast “subsistence” and
of issuing itself “scientiﬁc permits” for
what it terms “investigative whaling.”
The results, of course, to be sold in the
form of meat and oil.

The minority opinion written byJus-
tice Marshall minces no words. “Since
1971, Congress has sought to lead the
world, through the repeated exercise of
its power over foreign commerce, in
preventing the extermination of whales
and other threatened species of marine
animals. I deeply regret that it will now
have to act again before the Executive
Branch will ﬁnally be compelled to
obey the law. I believe that the Court
has misunderstood the question posed
by the case before us, and has reached
an erroneous conclusion on a matter of
intense worldwide concern. I therefore
dissent.”

He describes the efforts of Congress
to ensure effective action by the Execu-
tive Branch and contines:

“In 1984, the Secretary of Commerce
for the ﬁrst time declined to certify a
case of international whaling in excess of
established quotas. Rather than calling
into play the Packwood Amendment’s
mandatory sanctions by certifying to
the President Japan’s persistence in
conducting whaling operations, Secre-
tary Baldrige set about to negotiate with
Japan, using his power of certiﬁcation
under domestic law to obtain certain
promises of reduced violations in fu—
ture years. In the resulting compro-
mise, the Secretary agreed not to certify
Japan, provided that Japan would
promise to reduce its whaling until
1988 and then withdraw its objection to
the international whaling quotas. Argu-
ing that the Secretary had no discretion
to withhold certiﬁcation, respondents
sought review of the Secretary’s action
in federal court. Both the District Court,
604 F. Supp. 1898 (DC 1985), and the
Court of Appeals, 247 US. App. DC.
309, 768 F. 2d 426 (1985), found that
Congress had not empowered the Sec-
retary to decline to certify a clear viola-
tion of International Whaling Commis-
sion (IWC) quotas, and ordered the
Secretary to make the statutory certiﬁca-
tion. This Court now renders illusory
the mandatory language of the statutory
scheme, and ﬁnds permissible exactly
the result that Congress sought to pre-
vent in the Packwood Amendment: ex-
ecutive compromise of a national policy
of whale conservation.”

Citing correspondence between Sen-

ator Packwood and Secretary of Com-

2

merce Baldridge, showing that they
agreed that whaling after the morato-
rium would clearly diminish the effec-
tiveness of the IWC, Justice Marshall
wrote, “The Secretary’s manipulation
of the certiﬁcation process to affect
punishment is thus an attempt to evade
the statutory sanctions rather than a
genuine judgment that the effectiveness
of the quota has not diminished.

“The Secretary would rewrite the law
. . . the Secretary has settled for contin-
ued violations until 1988, and in 1988
all that Japan has promised is to with-
draw its formal objection to the IWC
moratorium; I see no indication that
Japan has pledged to ‘cease commercial
whaling by 1988’; . . . or to ‘dismantle
its commercial whaling industry.’ ”

 

. . . whether Leviathan can
long endure so wide a chase,
and so remorseless a
havoc; whether he must not
at last he exterrninated
from the waters, and the
last whale, like the last
man, smoke his last pipe,
and then himself evaporate

in the ﬁnal puﬂ

——H. Melville, Moby Dick

 

After documenting Congressional
intent, Justice Marshall skillfully pin-
points the basic unsoundness of the
majority opinion by revealing the nar-
rowness of the perch on which it seeks a
foothold:

“The sole support that the Court offers
for its position is the unobjectionable
proposition, in a House Report, that
“ ‘[a]n isolated, individual violation of a
convention provision will not ordinar-
ily warrant certiﬁcation under this sec-
tion.’ ” Ante, at 15 (quoting H.R. Rep.
No. 95—1029, p. 15 [1978]). Petitioners
indeed have a respectable argument
that the Secretary was left with some
inherent discretion to ignore violations
of a de minimis nature. Such an argu-
ment, however, has no relevance to this
case. It is uncontested here thatJapan’s
taking of whales has been ﬂagrant, con-
sistent and substantial. Such gross dis-
regard for international norms set for

the beneﬁt of the entire world repre—
sents the core of what Congress set
about to punish and to deter with the
weapon of reduced ﬁshing rights in
United States waters. The Court’s deci-
sion today leaves Congress no closer to
achieving that goal than it was in 1971,
before either Amendment was passed.”

In conclusionJustice Marshall wrote:
“I would afﬁrm the judgment below on
the ground that the Secretary has ex-
ceeded his authority by using his power
of certiﬁcation, not as a means for iden-
tifying serious whaling violations, but as
a means for evading the constraints of
the Packwood Amendment. Even fo-
cusing, as the Court does, upon the
distinct question whether the statute
prevents the Secretary from determin-
ing that the effectiveness of a conserva—
tion program is not diminished by a
substantial transgression of whaling
guotas, I ﬁnd the Court’s conclusion
utterly unsupported. I am troubled that
this Court is empowering an officer of
the Executive Branch, sworn to uphold
and defend the laws of the United
States, to ignore Congress’ pointed re-
sponse to a question long pondered:
‘whether Leviathan can long endure so
wide a chase, and so remorseless a
havoc; whether he must not at last be
exterrninated from the waters, and the
last whale, like the last man, smoke his
last pipe, and then himself evaporate in
the ﬁnal puff.’ H. Melville, Moby Dick
436 (Signet ed. 1961).”

Airline settles
cruelty charge

American Airlines has agreed to parti-
cipate in the making of a videotape ﬁlm
at Washington National Airport to settle
charges of Violating the Animal Welfare
Act. Airline training ofﬁcials will show
this ﬁlm to all employees handling live
animal cargo in 17 major cities and air-
ports across the country.

The company was charged on two
occasions with accepting dogs for trans-
port in cages that were too small. Other
violations occurred when animals were
left outside the terminal for at least 45
minutes in temperatures close to 100
degrees. In August 1983 one dog died
from heat exhaustion on a ﬂight from
Phoenix to Boston and seven others
were dead when arriving in Boston on a
ﬂight from Portland. They had appar—
ently died because of poor ventilation
and prolonged exposure to extremely
high temperatures.

 




 

gsod 2/101 maN ‘zuomng [empiw {Cq 0;:qu :2;qu

Queens bust.

Four-legged special agent Tommy the dog nd a US. customs oﬂicer with cocaine seized in the

 

Dog leads feds to $40 million cocaine stash

The credit for one of New York’s largest
drug seizures goes to Tommy, a golden
retriever. Tommy, in the company of
federal agents checking a Colombian
cargo ship in Brooklyn last May, sniffed
out a 500—pound stash of cocaine with a
street value of $40 million.

The feds allowed the drugs to be
landed and taken to a bugged garage. A
few days later they overheard the re-
mark: “The merchandise will have to be
moved tomorrow.” They moved in
swiftly and made two arrests. Thanks,
Tommy.

 

'missing coonhound at

Two medical schools
stand pat on dogs

Despite the appalling mistreatment of
animals they document, a series of nine
front-page stories in The Post—Crescent of
Appleton-Neenah-Menasha, Wisconsin
have failed to alter the attitude of the
University of Wisconsin-Madison or
The Medical College of Wisconsin, Mil-
waukee, toward dog dealer Ervin
Stebane. Spokesmen for both institu-
tions state they will continue to pur-
chase dogs and cats from him.

Jim Flasch, who wrote the reports,
quotes Dr. Ellis Seavey, Director of
Animal Care at the University, as fol-
lows: “We require Mr. Stebane to sign a
paragraph that says in essence that he is
the lawful owner or the authorized
agent and that he obtained the animals
in a lawful manner and complies with
the Animal Welfare Act. . . . That puts
the responsibility back on him, and that
is virtually our whole approach to that.”
Dr. Seavey is also quoted as saying that
Stebane provides “80-85%” of the dogs
and cats used annually. The total num—
bers used by the University of Wisconsin—
Madison in 1985 were 1,049 dogs and
740 cats. 7

Following are further excerpts from
the 1986 Post- Crescent articles, including
the date they appeared.

“Fromm Labs, Grafton, Wis., which
makes dog, cat and parvovirus vaccines,
also purchases dogs from Stebane.
Fromm Labs has a holding facility for
puppies listed under Stebane’s federal
dog vendor license. (8 July)

“The lack of identification of dogs has
also been listed in USDA reports for
Fromm Laboratories, Grafton, Wis.,
which is listed under Stebane’s federal
dog license.

“In a USDA inspection conducted
Ca. 26, 1983, Stebane was reported to
have 156 animals without identiﬁcation
at his compound.

“During a Dec. 30, 1983 inspection at
Stebane’s, at least ‘50% of the (88) dogs
lacked any identiﬁcation.’ . . .” (6 July)

“A Fox Cities area farmer found his
[Stebane’s]
Circle S Ranch a few years ago.

“A neighbor had noticed a strange
pickup truck in the area which was
traced back to Stebane’s, the farmer said
today.

“A visit to Stebane’s brought an invi-
tation to look for the dog.

“ ‘I whistled for the dog and the dog
responded right away,’ the farmer said.

continued on page 8

3

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Live Sheep trade to the Middle East resumed

New Zealand lifts long-standing ban on death

The Quarterly has previously reported
(Spring 1983) on Australia’s iniquitous
trade in live sheep to countries in the
Middle East—and the appalling suffer—
ing of animals crammed together in
their tens of thousands for weeks on
end. At that time there was a ban on this
trade in New Zealand following public
outrage at the brutality of Arab crew-
men. In full' View of on-shore loaders,
sheep had had their eyes poked outwith
sticks while those intended for immedi-
ate consumption were hung up to bleed
to death with their throats cut.

Now however the New Zealand gov-
ernment has yielded to strident de-
mands from sheep farmers and lifted
the ban on this disgraceful commerce.
Early in the year the Merino Express
took two shipments of sheep to Mexico
——which lacks the refrigeration facilities
to deal with large imports of frozen
mutton. On arrival in the port of
Manzanillo the surviving animals
(around 5% died during the 3—week
voyage and the days immediately fol-
lowing) were loaded with extreme bru-
tality into ill-equipped trucks and
driven nearly 500 miles to a primitive
abattoir in Guadalajara. Here throats
are cut without pre-stunning.

New Zealand shipments to Mexico
have now been suspended—the con-
tract having gone to US. competitors
whose sheep are driven overland from
Texas under conditions even worse
than in the Merino Express. But New
Zealand’s trade has not ceased. In the
last few months four shipments have
gone to Saudi Arabia, the two most
recent ones carrying a cargo of around
100,000 sheep each. And more will
follow.

The 8000-mile voyage through some
of the hottest regions in the world takes
4-5 weeks. New Zealand sheep, even
less than Australian sheep, are not con-

ditioned to such extreme temperatures.
All the animals will have been under
severe stress; many thousands will have
died. And should the weather turn even
more hostile than usual, the death rate
can be expected to soar. Only last year
Guly 1985) excessive heat and humidity
killed 15,000 sheep out of a total of
90,000 on a voyage from Adelaide to
Saudi Arabia.

But in a sense those which die at sea
are the fortunate ones. For on arrival
the survivors face being disembarked—
a process involving savage manhan-
dling and the likelihood of quite inade-
quate food and water—and then being
trucked to a hal—al slaughterhouse
where Moslem law forbids pre—stun—
n1ng.

New Zealand banned this trade for

 

ary and brutal death.

 

The shipping of livestock to distant lands raises two separate but
related welfare issues. One: long sea journeys inevitably place great
stress on the animals. They must be transported to their port of embar-
kation, shipped, disembarked. With the best will in the world (a com-
modity not always in generous supply), this cannot be made into other
than a harrowing experience for the livestock concerned. Two: once dis-
embarked, there is no way of insuring even remotely humane treat-
ment of the animals. Indeed we know full well that they are likely to
meet only terror, injury and pain en route to the ﬁnal release of a sanguin-

The AWI Quarterly, Spring 1983

 

 

ships

humanitarian reasons. Those reasons
still apply. The ban should be re-im-
posed.

The mob gets its
claws in poultry

The President’s Commission on Organized
Crime has uncovered the unsavory fact that
in New York City the wholesale meat and
poultry business is increasingly in the hands

of the mob. The commission needed to
show how the tentacles of organized crime

reach out to entrap even legitimate pro—
ducers.

To assist in this task it interviewed (stress—
ing that this was not a fault-seeking interro-
gation) “chicken czar” Frank Perdue, boss
of an East Coast poultry empire. With much
of New York’s wholesale poultry business in
the hands of Dial Poultry owned by Paul
Castellano jr.—son of the Maﬁa boss who
was gunned down last year on a New York
City street—getting a decent share of this
lucrative trade means dealing with the mob.
Perdue agreed to sell his chickens to Dial in
the 19705.

In the early 19803 he attempted to use his
Castellano connection to help him in a
tussle with the union. He got no help but, as
the President’s Commission points out, the
Perdue-Dial relationship shows how “legi-
timate businessmen may decide that doing
business with organized—crime—connected
companies” is their only option.

Credit: World Society for the Protection of Animals

 

 




 

AID maneuvers
monkey import

Just seven months ago, 341 squirrel
monkeys and 20 owl monkeys were
shipped into Miami from Bolivia.

They did not arrive with forged docu—
ments. There was no attempt to bam-
boozle customs ofﬁcials. In a sense it
was worse than that. The animals came
in openly because the purchaser, under
a special Resolution with Bolivia, was
none other than the U.S. Agency for
International Development—despite
opposition from the State Department
which took the view that Bolivia’s
attempt to protect its wildlife should not
be undermined.

Dealers Matthew Block and Gene
Harris of Worldwide Primates, Inc. of
Miami were contracted by U.S. AID to
obtain 600 monkeys immediately with
2000 to follow later for “malarial vac—
cine research.” But the government
revoked the resolution and demanded
the return of the monkeys so that they
could be released back into the wild.

 

An intriguing aspect of this un-
usual affair attaches to one of
U.S. AID’s two contractors, the
millionaire head of Worldwide
Primates, Matthew Block. The
Bolivian press campaign against
the monkey deal persuaded the
Bolivian company involved to
pull out and to bring a civil action
against Block. A warrant was
issued for his arrest and his pass—
port was conﬁscated. Block brieﬂy
vanished before surfacing once
more in the U.S. Now he is back
with Worldwide Primates.

 

 

 

South America’s ﬁrst wildlife coup

Bolivia’s beleaguered wildlife has a new
and powerful ally—His Excellency Dr.
Victor Paz Estenssoro, constitutional
president of Bolivia—who has recently
demonstrated a ﬁrm commitment to
conservation in two ways. First, despite
lobbying by animal dealers and others
with vested interests, he has just granted
a three-year extension to a ban on the
export of wildlife and wildlife products
due to end on 31 july.

Second, and perhaps more surpris-
ingly for a political head of state in a
South American country, he has be-
come the honorary president of the

 

 

Trafﬁc ﬂows freely in Mexico City

At the Sonora market in Mexico City all
sorts of animals are for sale, among
them many endangered species. Mon-
keys, parrots, owls, hawks, imperial
eagles and alligators in dirty cages are
offered by ignorant dealers interested
only in proﬁt. Although the capture and
sale of many of these animals are speci-
ﬁcally forbidden by law, the govern-
ment does little to stop the trafﬁc.
Parrots die by the hundreds during
transport to the U.S. (see Greta Nils—
son’s The Bird Business with its horrifying
photographs). And mislabeling is com-
mon. In 1985 Swiss customs conﬁs—

cated two huge packages (weighing be-
tween them nearly half a ton) destined
for Milan, Italy. Labeled Mexican Handi—
craft they turned out to be ocelot pelts.
The sender was a Mr. Rigoberto Pantoja
from the city of Queretaro. False export
papers are quite easily obtained, brib-
ery being endemic.

Mexico is not a member of CITES
and it cannot be hoped that this illegal
trafﬁc will be stopped in the near future.
It would however help if people in the
so—called developed countries would
refrain from buying.

Bolivian Wildlife Society, or PRO-
DENA (Association Boliviana Pro-De-
fensa de la Naturaleza)—the action
group largely responsible for the imple-
mentation of the ban in 1984.

Until that date, there was a ﬂourish-
ing export trade in live birds (mainly
macaws for pets and 200 exhibits) and
primates (mainly night and squirrel
monkeys for biomedical research), al-
though little was known of the effect on
wild populations.

With the end of the export ban in
sight, wildlife traders had, according to
PRODENA, been drawing up ‘shop-

Juvenile 0w! monkey, Aotus trivirgatus

ping lists’ amounting to some 10,000
primates and more than 300,000 birds.
After meeting with President Estens-
soro in La Paz, Bolivia’s capital, Regin—
ald Hardy, director of PRODENA, told
BBC Wildli e; “The ban has now been
upgraded from a ‘ministerial resolu-
tion’ to a ‘supreme decree,’ and the
three-year period is designed to allow
enough time for ﬁeld studies of the
relevant species to be completed.

Excerpted from an article by Ian Redmond in BBC
Wildlife.

For further information, contact Bolivian Wild-
lie Society—UK, Tan-yr—alli, Talycoed Lane,
Llantilio Crosseny, Gwent NP7 8TH, Wales.

5

Credit: Eme st Walker

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

For birds of passage the Mediterranean is now a little safer. . . .

0 n-the-spot reports from Cyprus and, to a lesser extent, Sicily bring the same good news: these regions of the Mediterranean
are no longer a murderous flyway for migrating birds. This means that at least some of the important stopovers on ﬂights
between Europe and Africa now oﬂer comparatively safe landing rights.

Eﬂorts must now be redoubled to press the law—enforcers in mainland Europe— Greece, Italy, France, Spain—to make li e
hard for the bird—slaughtering law-breakers. At present they make it all too easy, despite the promulgation within these
countries of a powerful array of national and international edicts expressly ﬁrrbidding the huge and indiscriminate massacre

which passes for hunting.

Friendlier skies
over Cyprus . . .

The following account of a famous and
most heartening victory in Cyprus was
received at A WI several months ago. We
have held ‘it over until now because,
frankly, we felt the news was almost too
good to be true. Sudden and total about—
turns of this magnitude are, if not unique,
extremely uncommon. Much more usual is
the slow, painful grind of inch—by—inch
advance on the long road to ultimate
triumph.

Consultations with the International
Council for Bird Preservation revealed
that they too were a little skeptical —and
that accordingly one of their team would be
in Cyprus during the 1986 spring migra—
tion to conﬁrm ( or otherwise) the ﬁndings

of Friends of the Earth.

Blackcap stuckfast to a limestick: once a sick-
eningly common sight in Cyprus, now com-
mendably rare.

It turns out that our FoE reporter, far
from viewing the scene through power-
fully rose—tinted spectacles, was seeing it as
it really is. After a thorough investigation
of what had been notorious hunting areas,
the I CBP ornithologistﬁuna’ no evidence
whatever of netting and only insignificant
liming. Trapping, in other words—which
previously accounted for perhaps 90 per—
cent of bird deaths in Cyprus—had vir—
tually ceased. And even shooting, he found,
was now conducted within the (admittedly
all too lax ) law of the land.

Why this sudden conversion to righteous-
ness? Read on and discover. And if you
regularly read the Quarterly and act
upon the occasional appeals made in our
columns, then it is not impossible that you
may have cause for a little self-congratu-
lation.

In 1984 Cyprus had the unenviable
reputation of killing more birds per
head of population than any other coun-
try in the Mediterranean, perhaps even
the world. The Italians, notorious for
the slaughter of wildlife, kill on aver-
age about four birds each per year. The
equivalent ﬁgure for Cyprus was 40!

Some of these are shot by ‘hunters’—
gunmen dressed in commando—style fa-
tigues and swathed in bandoliers of car—
tridges—~who roam the countryside
during the open season, often blasting
away at anything which ﬂies.

But by far the greatest number of
birds were caught and killed by the trap-
pers. They use two main methods: lim—
ing and netting.

The limers place three—foot long sticks,
covered in an extremely sticky glue, in
bushes and the branches of trees. Any
bird which lands on one, or even tou—
ches it with its wing, becomes stuck fast,
falls upside down, and hangs there
ﬂuttering helplessly until the limer re-
turns, tears it from the stick, and kills it.

The netters use very ﬁne-mesh nets
called mist-nets. These are strung be-
tween two poles and then placed across
streams, near bushes, in orchards, or
anywhere else where birds are likely to
ﬂy. Any bird hitting them becomes
entangled in the nearly-invisible ﬁla—
ments and is doomed.

The birds are pickled and sold as a
very expensive delicacy. The trapper
gets about 80 cents for every tiny car—
case, while the restaurants sell them for
about $1.50 each.

There are very few indigenous birds
in Cyprus, but because of the island’s
geographical location, it is on some of
the most important ﬂyways linking Africa
with Europe and western Asia. The vic—
tims of the trapping were thus mainly
migratlng spec1es.

Liming has been traditional in Cyprus
for centuries, but about a decade ago
mist—nets started appearing in the is—
land. Since these are vastly more effec—
tive than lime—sticks, the number of
birds being caught soared. Eventually,
up to 75% of all migrating birds which
landed in certain parts of the island
were being caught and killed. Obvious-
ly, no species can survive local predation
on such a scale, especially if all the other
hazards faced by migrants are taken
into account.

When Friends of the Earth, Cyprus,
was formed some ﬁve years ago it im-
mediately became apparent that one of
our main campaigns should be to re—
duce or eliminate this massacre, since
the activities of the trappers were threat-
ening an entire international wildlife
heritage.

In 1980 Friends of the Earth launched
our Protect Migrating Birds campaign,
which quickly evolved into a carefully-
orchestrated strategy of information and
education within the island and a simul-
taneous effort to bring maximum inter-
national pressure to bear on the Cyprus
government.

Hunters become the
hunted in Sicily

The Italian government would seem
at last to be taking action against the
illegal mass killing of migratory birds.
And to some effect—not least in Sicily
where observance of the law can be
somewhat apathetic (to put it mildly).

Last May the Minister of Ecology
(as he is titled) ﬂew down from Rome
to Reggio in the heel of Italy to address
a birds-of—prey seminar attended by
over 150 scientists and conservation-
ists and convened jointly by the Inter-
national Council for Bird Preservation
and the Italian Society for the Protec-
tion of Birds (LIPU). The Minister’s
speech was described as “emotional;”

Photo: ©ICBP/W. Verhéaéht

A ﬂock-in of conservationists scan the terrain
for illegal hunters

A well-constructed but now dese
platform

he castigated the law-breakers, the
hunters, and called for much stiffer
penalties.

That this, for once, was not just
sound and fury signifying nothing is
borne out by concurrent events in
and around this region. Traditionally
on either side of the Straits of Messina
in spring, Sicilian and Italian hunters
gather in their hundreds to display
their virility by blasting off at birds of
prey, particularly honey buzzards,
attempting to cross from Sicily to
mainland Italy.

This year a well-organized alliance
of conservationists, police, forestry
guards and government helicopter
pilots swung into action to curb the
poachers. Several arrests were made
and the shooting was signiﬁcantly less
than in previous years.

However the issue remains one
which inﬂames the passions of the
hunting fraternity. Three days before
the opening of the seminar a bomb
destroyed the car of Anna Giordano,
aged 20, from LIPU. She escaped
unhurt. Two years ago she won the
the Golden Heron award, given by
the Italian magazine Aironi, for her
valiant efforts to curb illegal shooting.

 

Cyprus, continued

For a long time we thought we were
getting nowhere. The government’s at—
titude seemed to be one of complete
apathy, whilst the thousands of people
who proﬁted from the slaughter showed
no sign of reforming their ways.

Our group soon realised that the key
to the issue was world-wide public opin-
ion, and we directed our maximum
effort into this area. We produced leaf—
lets explaining our campaign in six lan-
guages and circulated them to groups,
journalists, and individuals around the
world. Many, like AWI, kindly publi—
cized our actions and the support we
needed (invariably in the form of letters
of protest to our government and to the
Cypriot press) started materializing.

We continued to intensify our cam-
paign in Cyprus and were even able to
demonstrate that the scale of the massa—
cre was turning tourists away from the
island, especially during the low season
when hoteliers are desperate to ﬁll their
beds.

Finally, in December 1984, the gov-
ernment responded to the ever-increas-
ing international outcry and announced
a momentous decision: the existing
laws against liming and netting would
henceforth be properly enforced and
other measures, such as a ban on the
importation of nets and lime—sticks
would be introduced. Further, the gov-
ernment declared its ﬁrm intention of
ratifying the Berne Convention (which
concerns the protection of European
wildlife and habitats) and without asking

for any exemptions from its provisions.

Friends of the Earth were delighted,
but we were also cynical enough to won—
der whether the whole thing was just
window dressing, designed to deﬂect
international public opinion. Now, a
year later, we can report that trapping
has almost completely ceased. The police
are enforcing the laws effectively, and
although we have had occasional reports
of limited and discrete liming, we have
been unable to ﬁnd a single net any-
where, even during the height of the
Spring and Autumn migrations.

It is a stunning victory. In hard con-
servation terms what it means is that
something like 18 million birds did not
die on their way through Cyprus in
1985. And they won’t in 1986 either.

continued on page 11

 

 

 

\

 

 

 

 




 

 

Two medical schools
continued from page 3

“ ‘Stebane said, ‘Somebody must
have picked up a stray dog,’ the farmer
said of the dog vendor’s response to
ﬁnding the animal on his property.

“A woman who was missing a dog
called Stebane’s to inquire of her pet’s
whereabouts, and while she didn’t get
her dog back, she did get a surprising
offer from Stebane.

“ ‘He wanted me to gather dogs for
him,’ the woman said.

“ ‘He said he had seen an ad in the
paper for a great dane and puppies
which were listed in a ‘free to a good
home’ ad,’ the woman said. ‘He said he
could ‘really move them fast.’ [and that]
. . . he’d pay me money if 1 brought it
out to him,’ she said.

“ ‘I told him to go to hell." said the
woman, who also asked for anonym—
1ty. . .”

“ ‘I could shoot you for being here,’
Ervin Stebane is said to have shouted at
a couple who entered his Circle S Ranch
attempting to locate a missing dog.

“ ‘I’m going to smash your teeth out,’
Stebane is quoted as yelling as the
couple scrambled back into their car
and ﬂed.” [6 July]

“Two former employees . . . said
they witnessed owner Ervin Stebane
abuse and torture animals.

“The pair told of seeing him throw a
newborn puppy into a garbage can, hita
sheep on the head with a hammer, cas-
trate a dog and let it bleed to death, and
beat a goat with a shovel. . .” (10 July)

“The ﬁlth, ‘frozen death,’ and alleged
incidents of animal torture found dur-
ing the inspection were documented in
a Twin City News—Record story on Mon-
day, March 7 , l 960, and other stories on
March 8, 10, and 12. . .

“ ‘Piles of dead puppies, half-gnawed
carcasses of Holstein calves, and shock-
ing ﬁlth’ were just some of the alleged
inhumane conditions found when a
Calumet County sheriff’s deputy, in-
spectors from the state Agriculture De—
partment and numerous other ofﬁcials
converged upon the Ervin Stebane resi—
dence armed with a search warrant.

“An eyewitness who was present dur-
ing that March 5, 1960, investigation
conﬁrmed those allegations. Stebane
could not be reached for comment.

“The woman, a member of Animal
Welfare, Inc., a group which tried at
that time to rectify the situation through
the proper state agencies, asked that her
name not be used for fear of reprisal.

“ ‘It was so horrible. It was just a

8

Kangaroo court halts all wildlife
exports . . . . but only for 3 weeks

For an indeﬁnite period which turned out to be just three weeks, Australia
suspended exports of all wildlife products. The suspension, announced by
Environment Minister Barry Cohen, followed a landmark judgment of 6
June in which the Administrative Appeals Tribunal found in favor of Fund for
Animals in its action against the Minister. Speciﬁcally he had been challenged
over his approval of the 1985 Queensland Kangaroo Management Pro—
gram. The tribunal determined that in effect there was no approved program
because “the management program which the Minister purported to
approve was not the management program which was being carried out in

Queensland.”

In saying this it is clear from the
overall tenor of its painstakingly lengthy
judgment that the tribunal was still
being rather kind to the Queensland
authorities. For the grand title “man-
agement program,” as applied to last
year’s methods of “controlling” kanga—
roos in the state, was a total misnomer.
There was no true management; there
was no real program.

Culling operations for grey kanga—
roos made no distinction between east-
ern and western greys even though
these are different and separate species.
And in any case quotas were a ﬁction;
controls were almost non—existent. Fur—
thermore the Queensland National
Parks and Wildlife Service issued sev—
eral hundred thousand tags in excess of
the “approved” 1985 quota of
1,080,000. These tags did not state
which species they were intended for
and no attempt was made to monitor
their use.

The upshot of the tribunal’s damning
verdict was a ministerial order suspend-
ing the export not just of kangaroo
products but of all Australia’s wildlife

 

Quite often the mother kangaroo is killed but
the baby roo or ‘f/oey” is left to die an agonizing
and prolonged death.

products. Mr. Cohen said that the ﬁnd-
ings of the tribunal “had ramiﬁcations
for all management programs ap-
proved under the Wildlife Protection
Act.” The suspension, he said, would be
lifted when these “programs for wildlife
which are the subject of export” have
been reformed so as to bring them to

the “highest possible standard.”
Was this just rhetoric? Or was the
continued on next page

 

—

horror camp,’ the woman said.

“ ‘Here were two nice looking hunt-
ing dogs in a corn crib. They were
standing in slime from entrails—they
couldn’t even lie down.’ We opened a
grain bin and here was a dead cat prac-
tically rotted away. And there were dead
dogs all over.’

“ ‘Anyway, he (Stebane) got us corn-
ered,’ she said. ‘He took aim at me, but I
was young and ducked quickly and he
missed.’

“ ‘We saw dogs with such pitiful eyes,
and I was horriﬁed to learn that we
could do nothing,’ she said.

“ ‘When the welfare group discov-
ered the real site of the animals (an adja-
cent barn), the farmer threatened to
shoot welfare and humane society ofﬁ—

cials who sought to investigate,’ accord-
ing to the March 7 story.

“At the time the 1960 investigations
occurred, Stebane claimed to have been
in business at least 25 years. The story
also said Stebane was selling dogs to
Fromm Labs, Grafton, for manufactur—
ing dog and cat vaccines.” (13 July)

The United States Department of
Agriculture is currently investigating
the Stebane case. USDA itself is being
investigated by the Ofﬁce of the Inspec-
tor General concerning their handling
of the case. USDA has the authority to
revoke a dealer’s license as well as
impose substantial ﬁnes. Federally fun-
ded research facilities have the authority
to decide where to obtain their animals—
and where not to.

 

 




 

Birth control: an idea whose time has come

The idea that wildlife populations can best be controlled by some form of contra-
ception is being belatedly recognized on an increasingly broad front. The above
article on kangaroos cites Australian interest in this area. In the United States a recent
issue of BioScience (September 1985) dealt at some length with this theme. The
authors, research scientists Jay F. Kirkpatrick and John W. Turner, come down
unequivocally on the side of “chemical fertility control” as by far the most efﬁcient

means of controlling population.

On the way to this conclusion they castigate the shortcomings of traditional
methods: hunting, trapping, relocation and poisoning. It is surely reasonable to
assume that while these are the methods still overwhelmingly applied, their days are
numbered. The dustbin of history awaits them.

With the Bureau of Land Management now planning to spend $750,000 on
research into birth control for wild horses, the issue deserves attention. Excerpts

from the BioScience article follow.

From a scientiﬁc viewpoint the future for
fertility control in wild animal populations is
bright. Long—acting injectable contraceptives
oﬂer the wildlife manager some of the strongest
population control measures, largely because
these drugs can be delivered remotely with
tranquilizer guns, thereby avoiding expensive
capture and handling programs. Some 25-30
dzﬂerent commercial injectable contraceptive
steroids are now available, and several new
long—actingprogestins show great promise . . . .

Recently we have reported success in inhibit—
ing reproduction in feral horses by lowering
sperm counts in stallions. . . . The stallions’
behavior was unajfected and breeding took
place but there was an 83% reduction in foal
production. . . . Another exciting advance,
which we used in our feral horse program, is the
development of a biodegradable encapsulation
process to permit long—term sustained release of
injectable contraceptive agents . . . .

One of the most exciting possibilities for
fertility control lies in immunology. . . . Inter—

rupting reproduction with antibodies oﬂers
greater species—speciﬁc mechanisms of action
and virtually no risk to nontarget species . . . .
Currently, however, the technology in immu—
nological fertility control is not at the point
where widespread application to wild species is
possible . . . .

Still another potentially useful approach is
using plant products that interfere with repro—
duction. A recent review listed 50 plant
families, genera and species that have docu-
mented antifertility effects in males and fe-
males. Using some of these plants, particularly
in managing reproduction in herbivores, de—
serves further consideration . . . .

If chemical fertility control is to be success-
ful, the effect of contraceptive steroids on the
length of its target species’ breeding season
must be carefully determined . . . . A popula—
tion whose reproductive activity normally con-
cludes in summer and is delayed to the fall will
produce young that will probably not survive
the winter. Such a situation would be inhu-

 

Kangaroo court, continued from page 8

Minister seriously intent on seeing that
the future management of kangaroos
and other wildlife in Australia lived up
to this lofty ideal? The answer came
even more quickly than cynics had
predicted; three weeks later the govern-
ment announced that “wildlife man—
agement programs are in good shape.”
In one giant kangaroo leap the “highest
possible standard” had been attained.

Control without culling

Should the Minister wish to recover
some credibility and demonstrate that
government policy is not made by the
roo—culling industry, one excellent way
would be by funding research into con—
traception for kangaroos. The ground—
work has already been done. Two scien-
tists, Dr. Simone van Mourik and Dr.
Ted Stelmasiak, at a government re-

search laboratory attached to the Uni-
versity of Melbourne, have been evalua-
ting three different methods of contra—
ception. All have proved effective and
the need now is to develop a “bio-
bullet” which will release the contra-
ceptive agent over the whole period of
the kangaroo’s reproductive life.

Essentially this means taking as a
model an existing American system
with a ﬁre-power that is effective up to
about 50 feet and extending the range.
The composition and absorption char—
acteristics of the contraceptive bullet
also need further reﬁnement. And the
whole enterprise needs ﬁnancial sup-
port. The pay—off, though, in terms of
humane control not just of kangaroo
populations but of feral animals such as
goats and pigs, would be considerable.
Over to you, Minister.

mane and unacceptable . . . .

Perhaps the most compelling reasons for
using chemical fertility control are social.
Simply, the approach is humane, and public
acceptance is more likely than in the case of
hunting, poisoning or trapping. Not only is
individual animal discomfort minimized or
eliminated but there is an often—overlooked
secondary humane aspect. Where hunting is
forbidden by law and relocating animals is
economically or physically unfeasible, overpop-
ulation is likely to end in disease and death by
starvation. Fertility control is more likely to be
permitted within such protected areas.

Fertility control can also bring economic
advantages. Consider, for example, the cost of
removing a feral horse from public lands in the
United States: $500 to $1000 per animal.
Not only is the initial cost substantial but the
population will increase every year, necessitat-
ing an annual reduction program. The initial
cost of chemical fertility control is compara-
tively low per animal treated, and in cases
where the male of a polygamous species is the
target, the cost is reduced in a way proportion-
ate to the degree of polygamy. In feral horses a
single treated stallion may ultimately inhibit
reproduction in three to 10 mares . . . .

While the social advantages of chemical
fertility control are impressive, the biological
ones are exceptional. Removing an animal
from a population by hunting, trapping, poi—
soning or relocation is permanent; the genes
are lost from the pool forever. Because chemical
contraception is reversible, its use within an
intelligent management plan keeps the gene
pool intact. This may be an extremely valuable
concept where dwindling habitat results in
localized overpopulation of rare or endangered
species.

Another obvious advantage is the ability to
concentrate upon target species. Delivering
bait to a particular species without having a
variety of other animals ingesting the drug is
probably impossible but through careful ma—
nipulation of drug types and dosages eﬂects on
nontarget species can be minimized . . . .

Controlling overabundant wildlife popula-
tions through contraception is a potentially
powerful management tool that has received
surprisingly little attention. Continued human
encroachment on critical habitat, coupled with
increased public resistance to traditional con-
trol programs, will ultimately require new
solutions to overpopulation problems. M uch of
the scientific knowledge necessary to provide
safe, ejﬁctive and humane control is already at
hand; wildlife managers must be bold enough
to seek these new directions.

 

Kirkpatrick is with the Department of Biological
Sciences, Eastern Montana State College, Billings,
MT 5910]; Turner is with the Department of
Physiology, Medical College of Ohio, Toledo, OH
43699.

9

 




 

 

Drowning in a
sea of plastic

Previous issues of the Quarterly have
documented the fouling of the world’s
oceans and the huge destruction of
marine life by plastic litter of all kinds
jettisoned at sea. We make no apology
for returning to this subject as it shows
no signs of going away.

Every week around four—and-a-half
million plastic containers are thrown
overboard. Every year around 150,000
tons of plastic ﬁshing gear, lost or dis-
carded at sea, continue ﬁshing as “ghost
nets.” Uncountable quantities of tur—
tles, birds and marine mammals are
being entangled and drowned.

Entanglement is certainly responsi—
ble for a decline in the fur seal popula-
tion and is probably responsible for a
similar decline in the northern sea lion
population. Young animals are particu-
larly at risk; they are natural explorers of
“unnatural” objects.

What can be done? Thirty—three na—
tions, Japan included, have adopted
regulations of the International Mari-
time Organization prohibiting deliber-
ate disposal of net scraps. The United
States has not—and is increasingly a
prime source of the plastic pollution in
its own waters. Off Alaska, for instance,
where most ﬁshing vessels were either
Japanese or Russian until recently, Rus—
sian boats are now rare and US. boats

 

AUSTRALIA ACTS TO
PROTECT DOLPHINS

Since 1981 around 3000 dolphins ayear
have drowned off north Australia in
the huge gillnets of Taiwanese ﬁsher-
men. No longer. In May of this year the
Australian government, under intense
pressure from conservationists, de-
clared that in the future these gillnets
must not exceed 2.5km in length.
Thereupon the Taiwanese, whose nets
are 15.20km long (20km is 12% miles),
announced that they would abandon
Australian ﬁshing waters.

For dolphins there is another piece of
good news from Australia. The Victoria
State government has banned the cap-
ture and display of all cetaceans. The
ban is the ﬁrst of its kind imposed by
any government anywhere. It is ex-
pected that Australia’s federal govern-
ment may well follow suit— and that the
ripple effect will then reach other parts
of the globe. The sooner, the better.

10

3“

Trappd in a discarded net.

are common.

But while adopting international
treaties is one thing (and should cer-
tainly be done), enforcement is another.
A parallel approach to the problem is to
make plastic degradable. The technol-
ogy exists—and to a limited extent is
being applied. It should be applied

extensively.

 

 

 
   

Credit: C. W. Fowler

Of course it will add to costs, margin-
ally. But here is what the authors of a
lengthy article in the March-April issue
of Alaska Fish {‘9’ Game have to say:
“Unchecked the continued introduc-
tion of plastic waste into marine waters
will not only destroy wildlife but
threaten the life of the ocean itself.” Has
anyone computed the cost of that?

 

CLEANING UP A TIDE OF LITTER

In the summer of 1984 the Oregon
Department of Fish and Wildlife tried
an experiment. The public was invited
to join Department employees to see
how much ﬂoatable trash could be
collected from Oregon’s 350 mile coast-
line. To their surprise 2100 volunteers
showed up on a stormy Saturday morn-
ing raring to go. They collected 26.3
tons of plastic debris in just three hours.

It seems that focusing the cleanup on
material causing injury to sea birds,
turtles, seals and dolphins is a boost in
gaining volunteers. People who are
bored with pleas to end “litter” are
excited about the new issue of “entan-
glement.” As they read more about it,
they want to help solve the problem.

Word spread around the country
about the success of the 1984 cleanup.
In 1985 Judie Neilson, “author” of the
Oregon cleanup, was asked to organize
cleanups on the west coast and New
England states during September and
October. In the eight states participat-
ing, more than 6000 volunteers col-
lected 150 tons of marine debris on 708
miles coastline.

Most of what was collected was styro-
foam. It wasn’t remains of food trays or
cups, but rather large chunks which had
broken off ﬂoatation blocks used at

marinas and small personal docks, or
packing material used for shipping. The
next most numerous item was every
size, shape, and color of plastic bucket,
bottle, or food container.

The most dommon comment by vol-
unteers was “I never realized there was
so much marine debris until I spent a
couple of hours leaning over to pick it
up.” In the groups participating, there
is competition to see who can ﬁll a bag
the quickest and ﬁnd the most interest-
ing items.

Data gathering will need more em—
phasis each year. All volunteers were
asked to complete questionnaires, but
those participating for the ﬁrst time are
not sufﬁciently educated in identifying
types of debris. It is difﬁcult to docu-
ment monoﬁlament gillnet and trawl
webbing, or know that short pieces of
rope, etc., are parts of ﬁshing gear.

To aid others in organizing cleanups,
Neilson has published a “Nuts and
Bolts Guide to Organizing a Beach
Cleanup the Easy Way,” and has infor—
mation about entanglement and inges-
tion of plastic debris by ﬁsh and wild-
life. Both are available by sending a
$5.00 check or money order made pay-
able to Plague of Plastics and sent to P.O.
Box 59, Portland, Oregon 97207.

 

 

 




Exploiters in Peru

There has been a mighty ruffling of
feathers and a tumbling from high
perches in Peru. In the ﬁrst of two big
scandals, both of them widely publi-
cized in the national media, Senor
Armando Pimentel, Director General
of Forestry and Fauna and head of the
Institute of Forestry, was found to have
exported 3000 parakeets from Peru to
Miami with the aid of forged CITES
documents. The birds were labeled
Brotogerls pyrrhopterus but detective work
by U.S. Fish 8: Wildlife agents in Miami
and that indefatigable defender of nature
and head of Prodena, Senior Felipe Ben-
avides, uncovered the fact that they
were in reality a jungle species of the
parakeet, Brotogeris versicolorus, which it is
forbidden to export.

What had made the forging a fairly
simple task for Senor Pimentel is that as
Director General of Forestry and Fauna
he was also the CITES authority. How-
ever following exposure of these shenan-
igans in the magazine Caretas and in
Peru’s leading newspaper El Comercio,
Pimentel was sacked and a prosecution
is pending.

A bird-of—a—feather was Senor Victor
Padilla, the Chairman of the Chamber
of Animal Exporters of Peru. Animals
on Appendix I of CITES may not, of
course, be exported. There are, how-
ever, exceptions to this rule. One comes
under the heading of “Cultural diffu-
sion. ” In certain clearly deﬁned circum—
stances this entitles zoos or museums to
import Appendix I species.

Here was a legal loophole which
Padilla made illegal use of time and
again. This is made plain by a “strictly
conﬁdential” letter signed by Padilla

 

 

and sent out to clients of his fraudulent
import/export business which suggests
that importers falsify their identity by
using a zoo name. A copy of this letter
was forwarded to Benavides by Sleuths
working for TRAFFIC, the international
body which monitors trade in CITES-
listed species.

Enclosed with the letter were lengthy
lists of species for sale, among them 50
different bird species at around $75
each. The sheer scale of this bogus oper-
ation can be judged from just one
“item” on offer: 1000 red—headed par—
rots at $250 each—or a quarter of a
million dollars the lot.

These transactions had been going
on for years and since they all required
the approval of the Ministry of Agricul-
ture as well as Forestry and Fauna, there
are government ofﬁcials (quite apart
from Pimentel, deposed boss of Forestry
and Fauna) who surely have some ex-
plaining to do.

A piquant postscript to this shabby
story is that when Benavides called a
press conference and blew the whistle
on Padilla, the latter brazenly respon-
ded in the columns of Caretas by accus-
ing Benavides of foul play and by threat—
ening to sue unless he and “offending”

Photo: Dr. Herbert R. Axelrod

  

 

Canary-winged Parrakeet (Brotogeris versicolorus)

newspapers retracted. In the same issue
of the magazine, though, appeared fur-
ther damning evidence emanating from
TRAFFIC and received by Benavides.

Prodded by Benavides the members
of the Chamber of Animal Exporters of
Peru decided to purge their collective
guilt by ousting their Chairman. Padilla
has gone. Which is excellent news for
Peru’s animals, birds especially.

Friendlier Skies OVCT CYPTUS, cantinuedfrompage 7

Of course our group can by no means
claim all the credit—a multitude of
other organizations and individuals
contributed greatly to the ﬁnal out-
come, including many of the readers of
The Animal Welfare Institute Quarterly
who took the trouble to write in sup—
port of our campaign. What this suc-
cess does show is that ordinary people,
if they can spend a few minutes of their
time on a cause with which they syrnpa—

“i

thize, can affect the policy of a govern—
ment.

So, our grateful thanks to all those
who helped us save the migrants and
our best wishes to the AWI for success
in their many and worthwhile cam-
paigns.

Adrian Akers-Douglas
Coordinator,

Friends of the Earth, Cyprus
December 1985

 

Animal Welfare Institute

Scientiﬁc Committee

Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D.
Bennett Derby, M.D.

F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D.
Roger Payne, Ph.D.
Samuel Peacock, M.D.
john Walsh, M.D.

Staff

International Committee

Aline S. de Aluja, D.V.M. —— Mexico

T.G. Antikas, D.V.M. — Greece
Ambassador Tabarak Husain — Bangladesh
Angela King —— United Kingdom

Simon Muchiru — Kenya

David Ricardo - Canada

Godofredo Stutzin — Chile

Klaus Vestergaard— Denmark

Ofﬁcers

Christine Stevens, President
Cynthia Wilson, Vice President
Marjorie Cooke, Secretary
Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer

Directors

john Beary, M.D.
Madeleine Bemelmans
Gerard Bertrand, Ph.D.
Marjorie Cooke
Christabel Gough
David 0. Hill

Sue Hunt

Freeborn G. jewett, jr.
Christine Stevens
Aileen Train

Cynthia Wilson

 

 

Greta Nilsson, Wildlife Consultant
Victor Perez, Clerical Assistant
Adele Schoepperle, Assistant Treasurer

Diane Halverson, Research Associate

for livestock and poultry
Lynne Hutchison, Whale Campaign Secretary
Cathy Liss, Research Associate Laura Swedberg, Administrative Assistant
Nell Naughton, Mail Order Secretary Louise Wright, Research Assistant

ﬁ

11

Patrick Allen, Editorial Consultant

jessie Despard, Publications Coordinator

Rose R. Eck, Administrative Assistant
for Communications

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

National Agricultural
Library Open House

At the National Agricultural Library
open house, (20 November, 9:00 am.—
4:00 p.m.), visitors will have an oppor-
tunity to talk with the coordinators of
ten subject information centers and see
demonstrations of new technology in-
cluding the laser video disk, and expert
system, (a sophisticated data base).

Animal Welfare Institute Quarterly read—
ers will be particularly interested in the
Animal Welfare Information Center
booth. According to Elizabeth Gold—
berg, coordinator of the center, this
booth will feature sources of training
materials in the humane care and use of
animals in biomedical research, testing,
education and transportation for re-
search investigators, animal caretakers,
and members of Institutional Animal
Committees.

The National Agricultural Library is
located in Beltsville, MD. For further
information, contact Robert Butler,
Education Information Staff, (801) 844-
8987.

Funding Increased
continued from page I

fact Act the Committee concurs with the
House in providing $5,878,000, an in—
crease of $5,878,000 over the budget
request. This is also $1,902,000 more
than the 1986 adjusted level. Included
in this appropriation is $750,000 for
creation of an information service at the
National Agricultural Library which will
include information on available alter—
natives to the use of live animals in re-
search. The remainder of the increase is
for the general expansion of the program.”

This is an important advance in labo-
ratory animal welfare, recognizing as it
does the need to use non-animal meth—
ods for testing and research wherever
possible and to avoid duplication of
animal use.

On 24july the entire Agriculture Ap-
propriations Bill was passed by the
House of Representatives by a vote of
829-49. Final Senate action is awaited.

Chairman of the House Appropria-
tions Committee, jamie Whitten, pre-
sented the bill, and Congressman Bob
Traxler of Michigan, supporting the
chairman, stated in part: “We restore
funding for the Animal Welfare Act
once again, rejecting the notion that
enforcement of the act should be
turned over to other authorities. That
proposal is simply not sensible in to-
day’s interstate economy.”

12

 

 

 

 

A scene from “Little Bit and the America. ”A ship’s steward conspires with Barbara and Ludwig Bemelmans

to keep their rescued poodle in the cabin with them.

Tell them. . .

Madeleine Bemelmans is the editor of a new
book, Tell Them It Was Wonderful, published
by the Viking Press. It is a collection of
excerpts from the writings of her late hus-
band, Ludwig, who achieved fame as an
artist and author. His most endearing and

enduring works are the Madeline books,
delicious accounts of a Parisian gamine with
superlative illustrations by the author. Tell
Them It Was Wonderful evokes the life and
personality of a talent that enlivened the
world about him for many decades.

Beyond the Laboratory Door Reviewed

FRAME NEWS, the newsletter of the Fund
for the Replacement of Animals in Medical
Experiments, (1 British organization which
recently received a grant from the British gov—
ernment for research to develop alternatives,

published the following review of Beyond the

Laboratory Door.

This worrying, and at times deeply
shocking, book from the USA reads like
a catalogue of maltreatment. The ﬁrst
section comprises an in-depth analysis
of reports by veterinary inspectors of
the United States Department of Agri—
culture (USDA), responsible for admin-
istration of the Animal Welfare Act,
which sets minimal standards for animal
care. Reports were obtained under the
Freedom of Information Act for 214
registered research facilities, which
revealed that abuse or neglect of labora-
tory animals occurred in more than 80%
of them during 1981-84.

Details are given for 82 of the institu-
tions, 28 of which are universities. Vio—
lations included inadequate caging,
overcrowding, failure to remove
excrement or dead animals, the use of
rotting and vermin—infested food, fail-
ure to treat disease, generally inade-
quate veterinary care, the use of stolen
dogs, and discrepancies in records.

The second part of the book contains
88 photographs of animals used in
laboratory experiments, provided by

Lifeforce Foundation and Buddhists Con-
cerned for Animals. In the words of the
Acknowledgement at the beginning of
the book “These pictures expand on the
text in a way not possible for words
alone.”

The third section is a review of the
scientific literature of 1978-84, sum—
marising various laboratory animal
experiments under several different
headings. Some of the examples given
lead one to question whether, even if
laboratory animals are properly cared
for, much of what is done to them can
be judged to be scientifically valid or
necessary. For example, was it necessary
for 86 adult baboons to be conditioned
to smoke cigarettes in a “human-like
manner” for 15 months to investigate
the effects of smoking on atherosclerosis,
when the world is full of human volun—
teers doing the real thing?

Some scientists feel that those who
question the practice of live animal
experimentation are misguided, ignor-
ant, ill—informed and prejudiced. No
such criticism can be levelled at the au-
thors of Beyond the Laboratory Door— the
case is presented in the words of scien-
tists themselves.

Beyond the Laboratory Door is obtainable
from the Animal Welfare Institute, P.O.
Box 8650, Washington, DC 20007, at a

cost of $5.00 post paid.
—-FRAME, No. 9, March 1986

 




