(the Ecout anb (Buibe Series.

No. 4.—-Rabbits.

Wﬁdl‘ $cou1’o arza Guides @ﬁoui’él

{’cnow.

IT should be remembered that rabbits require a great deal of
daily attention. They cannot be taken up for a few days or weeks
and then dropped until the owner feels a return of his ﬁrst
enthusiasm. The would-be rabbit—keeper must make up his mind
that he is willing and able to wait on them every day in spring,
summer, autumn, and winter, otherwise he should never make a
start. A neglected rabbit is usually a sick rabbit, and as he is also
a prisoner he cannot help himself.

He came from a hot, dry country at the ﬁrst, so he needs warm,
dry quarters to live in and no draughts.

 




 

to

The Rabbit Hutch.

If the hutch is to be bought ready-made, be sure to buy a new
one—have nothing to do with secondhand hutches, which often
contain germs of disease or may be infested with vermin which
cannot easily be seen with the naked eye.

If the hutch is built by the owner, the wood used should be
clean and good, and plenty of light and air should be given.
Tate’s sugar boxes usually contain good clean wood, but any
wooden box that has contained human food can be used with
safety. If possible the hutch should be kept in an outhouse
or stable, or even under a shed would be better than exposure
to all weathers outside. It should stand on a table or shelf about
3 feet above the ground.

It should be not less than 2 feet high, 2 feet deep, and 5 feet
long, and should be divided into two compartments—one for
night and one for day, the night compartment having only a small
opening for the rabbit to enter.

A tray of hard wood or Zinc should be placed in both compart-
ments and should entirely cover the floor. The trays are easily
removed for cleaning, and if four are made one set can always be
cleaned and exposed to the air while the other set is in use. Each
tray should be thickly Covered with sawdust with a sprinkle of hay
on top. ' '- -

This should be removed every day and replaced by fresh, and
the ﬂoor should slope to ensure good drainage.

The front of the hutch is usually covered with ﬁne wire netting,
and some sort of shutter to let down and cover the netting should
be arranged, so that if the weather is bad at night the rabbit will
get protection. Holes should be piercedin the shutter for ventila-
tion. A door can be made in the side of the hutch, and from
there the owner can take out the rabbit when he wishes.

The roof should be covered with tarred felt and should lift off
when required-as, for instance, when the hutch is cleaned out.

At these times it is an excellent plan to shake a little Keating’s
insect powder on the floor.

The Rabbit’s Food and Drink.

Most important is variety in a rabbit’s food, for without this he
soon becomes unhealthy. All green food must be fresh, never




3

faded or stale. The following are all good: Cauliﬂower, grass,
dandelions, sow thistles, clover, lucerne, cabbage, etc., and roots
such as carrots, parsnips, turnips ; also potatoes if cooked, but not
raw. The other vegetables can be given straight from the ground.
Cooked potatoes can be mashed with a little milk and bran to a
crumbling paste, not sloppy. Every rabbit loves apples and can
have one now and then for a treat ; he will also not despise apple
peelings and cores.

Every day he should have bran and oats, and he is very fond of
good hay with clover in it, which can be given in winter when
green food is scarce. The food should be served in troughs that
will not upset. They should be made of hard wood lined with
zinc.

Every hutch shouldhave a vessel of water in it—one of the kind
made for dogs—too heavy to upset.

It has been said that rabbits need no water, but this is wrong.
Little wild rabbits lap up puddles, if watched, and it has been
found that when some special rabbit disease is about, those rabbits
that have water in their hutches escape the disease. In some way
it keeps them strong and healthy—able to escape disease.

For a rabbit who seems to have lost appetite try stiff bread and
milk.

Quantity of Food.

A good sample breakfast for one rabbit is 2% 025. of boiled
potatoes mixed With 2% 028. of bran moistened with milk so that it
is stiff—not sloppy.

2 023. of oats daily should be given with the evening meal as well
as green stuff. Never miss the daily oats, and leave always in the
hutch a hard Crust of bread for the rabbit to gnaw. This keeps
his teeth in good order and prevents him gnawing his hutch.
Except for the crust and bowl of water all uneaten food should
be removed after each meal. Two meals per day are considered
enough so long as the rabbit ﬁnishes it up, but should he leave a
lot, cut down the quantity. It will soon be seen how much he
needs. All rabbits vary as to appetite.

Exercise.

It is wise to enclose a nice piece of grass with wire-netting and
let the rabbit have his freedom here for a short time each day.

 




4
If kindly treated and handled gently he will love to be taken out
of his hutch and carried to this “park,” and if there are shrubs in
it or a tree he will delight his master with his romps and play.
It is cruel to lift a rabbit by his ears; the correct way is to raise
him by the loose skin at back of neck, at the same time supporting
his feet with the other hand.

Grooming.

From the ﬁrst this should be done, and if he is comde and
brushed as a baby he learns to love it. It keeps his coat clean and
free from vermin, and greatly improves his looks.

Signs of S1ckness.

The rabbit goes off his feed and lies in dark corners of his hutch.
He is very quiet and his eyes are dull. It is well to get the advice
of a yet. or of an experienced rabbit-keeper as soon as these signs
occur.

WHAT EVERY SCOUT AND GUIDE SHOULD
KNOW ABOUT
l. HORSES.
2.CATS,
3.0005,
4. RABBITS.

Leaﬂets issued by the Animals’ Friend, York House, Portugal
Street, London, \N.C. 2. Price $d. each. 50 for IS.

,3 RRIfTED‘r‘lN -GREA;E,.B ITAIN BY

RiLuuxd AND sex;- L'ruwnefrnbro
2.. ,__ (\ ' | ‘ -- -

1h" .9
\ -~-->,

‘_ 1 viii... V!
i..l Lilli..;'..a.).

. .. ‘ cr/
(i ‘ r? v' r~ \Mﬂ .7 " /
. Y ST REElg/ -

 




