WHY WE NEED CATS

[Reprinted from the Boston Transcript and Springﬁeld Republican]

In the many articles I have read in the papers on getting rid of rats I
have failed to see anything about the help that cats have been in city
and country, in houses, stores, factories, barns, chicken yards, in
lessening the number of rats as well as mice. This seems to me to
savor of ingratitude. The omission~ may be partly due to the de-
termined attempt which has been made by a few prejudiced persons
to make the public believe that cats are of no use, and particularly
that they do not catch rats.

Cats are said not to be of much use as mousers, and of no use in
catching rats. That some cats catch some birds, I do not deny, but
on the very face of it the statements made as to the immense number
they catch is all guesswork, If the numbers were as great as have been
stated, considering the fact that cats have been domestic animals for
over 3,000 years, we should not have a bird left in the country where
cats are kept. Cats, they say, are the birds’ greatest enemies, yet
it is well known that over 5,000,000 men and boys are. licensed to shoot
every year, and besides these licensed gunners there are hundreds that
are unlicensed, men and boys, the latter with air guns, who go into the
woods and ﬁelds shooting any kind of birds or game they can spy out.

I have been sending out a circular inquiring at stores, factories and
at private houses as to whether the cats they kept catch rats, and I
have had a great number of replies saying that the cat or cats the
writers own are good ratters, and their services are indispensable.

A prominent Boston merchant had a cat which he said in so many
words was worth her weight in gold. She had saved him thousands of
dollars’ worth of property a year. He had known her to catch fourteen

large rats in one night. W

 




In .a house and barn near Boston, where rats and mice ran riot, in
spite of traps, and two dogs that occasionally caught a rat, a cat was
introduced last summer. This cat ﬁrst cleared the house of mice, then
going to the barn he has caught rats so large that he had to drag them
down the driveway to the house when he wished to exhibit them to his
mistress. After he has received the praise he feels is his due, he leaves
the rat in the yard and one of the dogs buries it.

I could multiply these instances by the hundreds. If the men and
women who value cats highly for their usefulness in catching rats and
mice shoul ld begin writing to you1 paper, your columns might be ﬁlled
with letters in praise of the cat.

In tenement and lodging houses cats are of such great value that
some lodging house or boarding house owners declare they Would have-
to give up their business without their aid. Farmers, ”almost without
eXception, declare cats to be indispensable, and one woman wrote me
that her chicken house was protected from rats by her cat. Before she
had the cat the rats devoured her chickens.

With the threat of the bubonic plague always before us, can we
afford to ignore an agency that has proved of so much value? When
the Japanese undertook to eliminate the plague from their country one
of their ﬁrst measures was to import a cargo 'of cats from the United
States.

It is an interesting fact that every week we are having complaints
because we have not more cats that we are willing to place in homes
where they are wanted for the purpose of catching rats and mice.

If the Audubon Society and‘ Humane Societies would circulate
widely a simple leaﬂet instructing people who own female cats not to
let all the kittens live and give them away indiscriminately; to keep
their cats in the house nights and in the early morning hours when birds
are getting breakfast for their young; never to desert their cats and
so force them to seek their living in woods and ﬁelds; also to begin
with the kittens and train them, as they would dogs, to let the birds
alone they would do much more for the interests of the birds and of
humane education than to harp on'the question of getting a law on our
statute books which could not be carried out, or even be attempted,
without cruelty, and which would before a year was out be deeply
regretted even by those who advocated it.

It is a very serious matter to encourage this attempt to bring the cat
into such bad repute. Some boys, not all, are only too ready to seize
on any excuse for chasing and killing cats, or anything else, and already
in some places where lecturers on birds have been denouncing cats, a
crusade against them has been started, which caused much suffering
to human beings and cruelty to cats. It is a direct set—back to
humane education.

MRS. HUNTINGTON SMITH.

President, Animal Rescue League, Boston, Mass.

'len copies of this leaﬂet mailed for 4 cents in stamps, or 100 copies for 30 cents,
by Animal Rescue League, 51 Carver St., Boston, Mass.

. / ' I

 




