How Dogs are Treated

111.

Viviseotion Laboratories
SCOTTISH EXPERIMENTS

Those who have persuaded themselves that dogs do not
suffer in Vivisectional experiments are invited to look at the
picture, here reproduced, from a journal entitled Sin/”gem,
Gynecology and OhJi‘etricr. The chief of the editorial staff
for the British Empire is Lord Moynihan, K.C.M.G., C.B.,
M.S., F.R.C.S., and amongst the members of the American
section of the editorial staff is the notorious vivisector,
George W. Crile, MD. The journal is published in 'Great
Britain by Bailliere, Tindall and Cox, 8, Henrietta Street,
Covent Garden, London, and the number from which the
illustration is taken was issued in April, 1932. The article
in which the illustration appeared is entitled The Role of
Bile in High Iizlerlihczl Ohrlri/climz, and its authors are E. B.
Benedict, M.D., C. P. Stewart, Ph.D., M.Sc., and P. N.
Cutner, M.B., Ch.B., Edinburgh, Scotland. The locality
indicated for the work done is the Department of Experi-
mental Surgery, University of Edinburgh, and the Clinical
Laboratories, Royal Infirmary, Edinburgh. Readers of the
article are informed that Mr. Stewart is Carnegie Teaching
Fellow ”ih receipt of part—time grant from the Medical
Research Council.”

The authors begin, as is usual in such accounts, by referring
to previous experiments.1 We learn that White and Fender
kept an obstructed animal alive 28 days by restoring through
an ileostomy‘2 below thc’ point of obstruction the materials lost ,
in the vomitus. Further that Armour and his co—workers,
having studied very exhaustively the chemistry and bacteri—
ology of dogs in acute obstruction, concluded that death was
not due to toxaemia or to the presence of the bacillus welchii,
but to chemical changes. ” One animal of theirs obstructed
2 feet below the pylorus'” was kept alive 50 days . . . .

 




 

In regard to their own experimental method, the authors
state: ”Dogs were obstructed at varying levels, from just
below the bile and pancreatic ducts to 11 inches below this
point. Some of these animals received normal saline and
dogs bile, collected from a dog with a permanent
cholecystostomy4 ; other dogs, by a preliminary cholecy-
stenterostomy5 with ligation of the common bile-duct, done
a week or more before obstruction of the intestine, received
their own bile below the level of the obstruction.
. . . . Still, other dogs, obstructed at the Same level, to serve
as controls, received saline only. Not/9mg war given by
mom/J, except a very armrz'mml rip of wafer. Obstruction
was effected by severing the bowel completely, inverting the
proximal end, and either bringing out the distal end to the
abdominal wall through a stab wound to serve as a feeding
enterostomy6 or inserting a Pezzar catheter into the distal
end and bringing that out through a stab wound.”

Under the heading Deductions, we learn that a great deal
of experimental work has been done on starvation in animals
(this is no news) and that according to Morgulis ” the greater
the store of fat in the body at the commencement of the
fast, the longer can the privation of food be endured-”
“ The length of time,” write our authors, ” which dogs can
survive starvation, varies enormously in different dogs,
Morgulis giving 38 days as the average period, but the limits
as 21 to 117 days. The record fast of 117 days was reported
by Howe, Mattill and Hawk, in a Scotch collie, which was
fed at the end of this long fasting period and recovered
completely.”

A neat little table is published by the authors of the length
of life after operative obstruction in three dogs experimented
on by them: One lived 27 days, another 44 days, and the
third, which was ” very fat,” 58 days. There is a lengthy
explanation of how these particular three dogs were experi-
mented on, with bile, glucose, etc.

But ” as no deﬁnite conclusions regarding the use of bile
could be drawn from these three dogs it was decided to
obstruct a series of dogs, all at exactly the same level, just
below the entrance of the bile and pancreatic ducts, some of
the animals to serve as controls and some to receive bile

 




 

Q

'leltOﬂOJ-aillg [q 011;};an J[0 poo/19W

 




 

 

 

below the obstruction.” In this series it was seen that the
dogs not receiving bile below the obstruction lived 24 to
29 days.

Table 3 is devoted to recording ”chemical ﬁndings” in
a number of dogs after 23, 44, 58, 24, 27, 29 and 36 days
of obstruction respectively.

We are informed that some dogs die ” unfortunately from
apparently unrelated causes.”

The conclusions drawn from these cruel and revolting ex-
periments are barren of any observation which can usefully
be applied to the cure of human disease. The remarks are
vague and inconclusive and have no doubt led to repetition
of similar experiments.

Examination of the size and difference in breed of the
wretched dogs shown in the picture will indicate to the
discriminating observer the richness and variety of canine
material at the disposal of vivisectors working in Scotland.
It would be vain to hope that an intelligent and devoted dog
who has served as a guide to a blind man will not end his
days in the vivisection laboratory. The collie on the
laboratory table tells his own tale.

 

1 “obstructed ” here means tying up or ligating the small intestine so that
nothing can pass through it.

2 The small intestine is stitched to the abdominal wall through which an opening
into the small intestine is maintained.

3 The natural opening of the stomach into the small intestine.

4The bile duct is divided and the end nearer the liver is stitched into an
opening in the abdominal wall.

5 The bile duct is divided and the nearer end is stitched into an opening in
the small intestine farther from the stomach.

6 Artiﬁcial intestinal opening.

Reprinted from and published by PROGRESS TO/DAY,
15, St. James’s Placeéﬁon, S.W.1.

 

 

St. C lame/m Prey; Ltd, Portugal Street, Kz'ttgrway, London, lV.C.2

 




