(QUARTERLY)

F:
r
:1:
>
r"'2
['1']

 

JANUARY

‘0

1935

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

CONTENTS.

Animals 1

Sheep and Lambs

The Character and Language of Dumb Animals
Some Causes of Illness

Beef Tea

Fish

H Other People’s Cruelties ”

Some Opinions

Pit Ponies

Miscellaneous

—-A

H ,
N O 00 \I -l> DJ

14
15

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

HUMANE LIIFE

JANUARY, 1935.

 

Animals !

THOSE who inquire carefully into the attitude of man towards
other animals—as it is the duty of all of us to do—will

realise that in hunting, shooting, slaughtering for food and
in vivisection, there is inﬂicted, daily and hourly, a mass of
preventible cruelty. The indifference of the general public is
deplorable.

There are some who strongly disapprove but say they are too
' sensitive to think of the hideous details. Others who would act if
brought face to face with the reality let the matter alone, as they
are too occupied in business or the pursuit of pleasure. Some, to
show their superiority, say they will have nothing to do with what
they call “ sob-stuff.”

To—day all classes of animals are exploited for our needs or for
sport. There is no necessity to hunt for pleasure, to kill for our
food, to use skins, furs and feathers for our dress; and little but
mischief, results from the vivisection and inoculations practised by
some medical men.

Every animal has the right to live the full term of its natural
life without interference by us—quite as much as we have the
right to live our own lives,

 




 

 

 

-._, w-._...~.‘v >v§

2 H UMANE LIFE

All creatures have their place in Nature and their personal
rights; and it is cruel for us to intrude on their homes or to

interfere with their happy lives.

The man is mean and contemptible who hunts a stag or fox
or otter or hare till it is exhausted and then stands by exulting
while the poor despairing creature is torn to pieces by his dogs.

Those who shoot birds living happily and in vigorous health
and leave them to die of their wounds and their young ones to
starve; the people who, having plenty of health-giving food,
slaughter their fellow creatures and eat them; the ladies who,
like the squaws of savages, deck themselves in furs and feathers ;
the vivisectors who inflict prolonged torture without anaesthetics,
with the stupid idea that reliable lessons can be learnt about
ours-elves in that way—these and others are cruel in the extreme
and standing hindrances to the amelioration of morals and

character so much needed among nations now.

From the utilitarian point of View, too, what a waste of
power! One tenth of the money used up in these unproﬁtable
and wasteful occupations would, if devoted to more legitimate
uses, abolish‘all the unemployment pressing now on the welfare of

many nations.

Hunting has been defended on the ground that very large
sums of money are spent on it and that many workers and trades—
men depend on it for wages and proﬁt. As if the money could
not be used on productive work and so support many more
workers. Abolition of the slave trade, child labour and other
abuses was objected to on the same ground, as it was said that
ship owners would lose the proﬁt they gained by carrying slaves
in their ships, factory owners would be ruined by the loss of child
labour, etc,

 




HUMANE LIFE 3

Animals valued at £16,000,000 were imported alive in 1932,
after they had gone through the terrors of the holds of the vessels
and been thrown about and injured by the rough seas. Add
£93,000,000 worth of meat imported, the result of much
slaughtering in foreign countries.

According to the ﬁgures arrived at by the League of Nations,
in the eight years 1923 to 1930, 665 million sheep and lambs, 470
million cattle and calves. 1,006 million pigs, and 25 million birds,
were slaughtered. Let it be considered that these ﬁgures multiply
the torture—often prolonged—inﬂicted on each of the animals.

And what of the 589,000 animals vivisected in 1932 and
603,000 in 1933 P What is to be said about the $310,000,000 spent
yearly in blood sports? All that in face of the fact that two
millions of our English workers are unemployed, many of whom
are anxiously searching for the means of existence for themselves
and their families.

°EOCE° OEDOE°

Sheep and Lambs.

From the News Chronicle of 22nd June, 1933 :—

HNo MERCY FOR SHEER—By .15 votes to 13, a Committee
of the House of Commons excluded sheep and lambs from the list
of animals which must be ‘humanely killed by a mechanically
operated instrument.’ Why? Is there really anybody who wants
sheep and lambs to be killed otherwise than humanely, and what
for P It is a monstrous decision.”

 




4 HUMANE LIFE

 

The Character and Language
of Dumb Animals.

 

A N able writer has suggested that it is quite reasonable to
believe that some of the animals usually spoken of as

” are really superior to man. No one can deny

“ lower
that physically they are all as highly endowed as man is for the
purposes and conditions their bodies have to deal with. They are
composed of the same material as man’s body; and, like him,
they all are born and develop and are mortal. They have mental
abilities which evolve in the race and in the individual. Man is
now superior, both physically and mentally, to what he was in his
savage state; and so, in the same way, for instance, the dog is

superior to his ancestors, the wolf and the jackal.

Many species of animals have bodily powers which far excel
those of man. The great strength of the gorilla and rhinoceros ;
the swiftness of the deer, horse and dog; the keen sight, hearing
and sense of smell possessed by many animals, are physical
endowments man does not possess in such high degree.

There are grounds for believing that mentally also many if
not most animals have all the qualities man has. Some of them
are not recognised by him and he is under the impression that
they do not exist. Take, for instance, the matter of language. To
us the chattering of monkeys and the cawing of rooks are
meaningless because we have not studied them; just as the
talking of French or German is unintelligible to an ignorant

 

 

' hing-Hwy“ . "'

 

 




 

HUMANE LIFE 5

English villager. Some day we shall understand the language of
all kinds of animals. In this they are more progressive than we
are. Dogs and horses have learnt much of our language. Parrots
not only understand it but learn to talk it and carry on conver—
sations with us ; as in the case of the parrot that, when a house
was on ﬁre. shouted H Help I come quick.” That was not mere
imitation or instinct.

Those that have, as far as we know, no vocal powers have
other means of talking or, at least, of communicating their ideas
and wishes. Even ﬁsh can do this. A ﬁsh has been seen to warn
a swarm of his fellows against a baited hook. Various vibrations
of his body may have been sentences transmitted through the
water and felt and understood by the other ﬁsh, just as the
vibrations of our vocal chords are transmitted through the air to
the ears of our friends. Birds are sensitive to the ether vibrations
caused by distant storms, and know that these are coming before.
the barometer warns us. Deer and other animals in exposed
districts will move to shelter a long time before bad weather
comes. Animals of all kinds apparently receive telepathic messages
and probably have been for ages conscious of the ether waves and
their meanings, whereas man is only now ﬁnding them out.

These “fellow creatures ” play, joke, express regret, mourn
and suffer just as we do. Many are very clever, thoughtful and
persevering, and show a high order of reasoning power. The
forethought, artistic planning and constructive ability of the ants,
the bees, the spider, beaver and some birds show this clearly. As
is best seen among our pets, the “dumb animals,” as they are
wrongly called, are sympathetic and altruistic, very solicitous for
their young, devoted to their masters and share in his joys and
sorrows.

They have well organized and hygienic homes in the forests,

 




 

 

 

 

 

6 HUMANE LIFE

hills, trees, rivers, sea and air ; and live an admirable family life.
They have communities in which there is a real civilization with a
code of laws; as may be dimly realized by us when we see an
offending crow punished after a trial by his peers, or a rogue
elephant turned out of the herd for misconduct.

A bird will pretend to be wounded and ﬂutter awkwardly
along the ground to draw away the dogs and sportsman from the

[neighbourhood of the nest and young ones. A stag will stand in

the line of ﬁre to protect the hind. The monkey will come at
great risk to beg for the body of his wife from the sportsman who
has shot her.

“ And these,” writes Howard Moore, H are the beings whose
bones men jest over at their feasts and shoot for pastime.” He
also remarks that there is as much ground for believing in their
immortality as there is for believing in that of man.

No doubt they talk about us among themselves, and some
day, when we have learnt their languages, we shall probably hear
interesting opinions regarding ourselves and our mode of life.
These opinions cannot be very favourable, seeing how ruthlessly
we torture them for sport, kill them for their skins and furs, and
slaughter them for our food.

OEEDOCE’° 030C530

A MEDICAL MAN’S OPINION.

” I am convinced that vivisection is not only useless but it is
harmful. It is not helping but hindering the progress of medicine.
It is unethical, immoral and brutal; and it is the duty of every
right-thinking man and woman to do everything in his or her
power to bring its practice to an end.

 




HUMANE LIFE '7

Some Causes of Illness.

FEAR and pain and mental suffering have a poisonous inﬂuence

011 the secretions of the body, and this is, no doubt, the

case with the animals that, just before death, suffer so much

from beatings, Worrying by dogs, hunger and thirst, struggling in

traps, terror in the trains, or when crowded together and thrown
about in the dark holds of vessels in rough seas.

No wonder that their ﬂesh bears in it some malign inﬂuence
on those who use. it for food ; a very likely explanation of some of
the mysterious illnesses which a few pious people attribute to the
“ pestilence that walketh in darkness " or an “ Act of God.”

The same thing may be one of the many causes responsible
for the failures of vivisection. Any results obtained by observation
of a tortured animal can hardly be reliable, and are probably
always misleading.

oEocz—zo <>1~E—E-DOCE'<>

Howard Moore remarked that the right to life, liberty and
the pursuit of happiness are believed to-day by all exalted minds
to be the inalienable properties of every human being; but that
the non-human millions are considered to be in the same class as
the waves of the sea and the weeds of the ﬁeld. They may be
beaten, maimed, starved, eaten, tormented, skinned alive, shot
down for pastime, cut to pieces out of curiosity.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

8 HUMANE LIFE

Beef Tea.

IN man and the higher animals there is a double circulation
of the blood. By means of the arterial circulation the
nutriment extracted from food is carried to all parts of the
body to build up new tissues in place of the old tissues that have
done their work. These old tissues are of no further use and are
carried away by the venous blood to the eliminating organs to be
turned out of the body. They are the waste material of the whole

system and, if allowed to remain long in the body, cause ill health. ,

When an animal is killed the circulation immediately ceases.
That is why, in some cases, animals are kept alive some time while
dying ; as it is wished to extract as much blood as possible so that
the dead ﬂesh shall be white meat. For that purpose, up to not
many years ago, calves were hung up by their feet and bled slowly
to death during the night.

As the ﬂow of blood in the veins ceases as soon as the animal
is dead, there remains, therefore, in all parts of the body some of
this effete waste material. When a joint of beef is boiled, this
waste material is the ﬁrst constituent that is boiled out as it is
very soluble in hot water. It is the chief constituent of beef tea.
It has no nutritious value ; and the only use that can be made of
it is as a stimulant. It rouses the body to try to expel it as
something objectionable. In other words, it draws on a patient’s
reserve strength. It is like a whip to a horse, which makes the
horse exert himself but gives him no extra strength.

 




 

HUMANE LIFE 9

Stimulation, at times, is necessary; but there is no need to
resort to this material—so unclean and obtained at the cost of so
much suffering. A

All round us in the air there are innumerable microscopically
small animalculze. When disease arises they settle on the bad
matter which is the cause or result of the disease and attempt to
remove it. These ‘ germs’ are not the cause of the disease ; they
simply congregate by millions where it occurs.

They come, in their myriads, to beef tea to clear away the
obnoxious matter ; and that is why beef tea is used as one of the
best culture media for germs.

Such germs are found, very few or none at all, in vegetable
and fruit juices. These are pure foods.

Several eminent medical men have strongly insisted on the
poisonous character of beef tea. Dr. Kellogg says that, when
given in cases of diphtheria and scarlet fever, it adds poison to
poison. Dr. Milner Fothergill remarked that many deaths are
due to the misplaced conﬁdence in beef tea.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

10 ‘ HUMANE LIFE

Fish.

SOME who abstain from ﬂesh food ﬁnd that doing so is, at
ﬁrst, difﬁcult, and, though they abstain on humane consider-
ations, they still eat ﬁsh. They may argue that ﬁsh are cold
blooded, do not feel much and are good food for the brain, and

SO 01].

To pull a ﬁsh out of its natural element by means of a hook in
its mouth must be very painful. The Violent struggles and gasping
are proof enough. To catch ﬁsh in nets and see them springing
up in the air in their convulsive attempts to breathe as they slowly
die, should be deterrent for every truly humane man. The
crimping and other cruelties practised on them in the boats, the
boiling alive of lobsters and shrimps, the terrible painful skinning
of eels, the slicing open of oysters, are savage preparations which
ought not to be ignored by the ﬁsh eater when the dead bodies

are put before him as food.

For his own sake he should remember that ﬁsh are the
scavengers of the rivers and sea. They eat one another and
congregate in great numbers at the mouths of rivers, where they
feed on the worst refuge which passes from the large towns to the
sea. And these estuaries are the ﬁshing grounds where fat
oysters, mackerel, etc., are caught. In the “ British Medical
Journal,” a doctor wrote that mackerel are a most dangerous food

as ptomaines are rapidly developed in them.

H

Sir H. Thompson in his ” Food and Feeding wrote that

there is no foundation whatever for the popular belief that ﬁsh

’

 

 




 

 

 

HUMANE LIFE” 11

food contains elements that adapt it in an especial manner to
renovate the brain and so support mental labour. Such elements
exist in good proportion in oatmeal and other vegetarian foods.

Dr. J. Hutchinson, F.R.S., F.R.C.S., made careful inquiries in
countries where leprosy is common, and he stated before the
Leprosy Investigation Committee :——“I believe that in all the
various lands where it is now still found, it has had, and still has,
the same cause—that cause being the taking into the system, in

the shape of ﬁsh food, the poisonous germs of the malady.”

In the l—lth century leprosy was common in England, but it
disappeared owing to the decline in the amount of ﬁsh eaten and
the increase in the use of vegetables and fruit. We hear little of
it now in this country. Sanitation and vegetables and fruit have
kept it in abeyance ; but, no doubt, some of the minor ailments of
the ﬁsh eater are really tendencies towards that dreadful disease.

Fish is obtained at great risk and with the loss of many lives
of the ﬁshermen in rough weather. This is sometimes defended
on the ground that it is a great industry employing thousands of
workers. Abandon the demand for lish and employ the men in
the healthy agricultural work of raising pure food instead. As the
poor woman singer of “ Caller herrin ” says of the herrings :

H Wives and mothers maist despairin
Call them lives of men.”

-./ef§.

930'

 




 

 

 

 

17‘ HUMANE LIFE

“Other People’s Cruelties.”

l ’NDER this title, Mr. J. W. Robertson Scott (Editor of The
Countryman) in an article in the News Chronicle of 29th

October, 1934, wrote of the people who think only of the
picturesque side of hunting and the maintenance of old customs
and do not worry about the horrid side. He says :—

“They have not seen the tired~out, mud-daubed fox,
which has been hunted for miles, dug out of the hole to
which it had betaken itself and given to the hounds.

HThey have not realised just what may happen at
cubbing (which is the scattering of the young foxes and the
killing of some of them to blood the bounds).

HThey have not seen a beaten fox, which has taken
refuge in an outbuilding or a chimney, forced out and thrown

before the hounds.”

He then points out that there is the distressing example set to
the boys and girls of the countryside, and that members of the
general public are to blame when the fur they wear may have
been got amid the horrors to which trappers have so often testiﬁed
and the rabbit pie they eat may have been made of the body of a
rabbit which ended its life in great suffering in the jaws of a steel

trap.

chief \ "—"3

 

 




 

 

Vﬂ

 

HUMANE LIFE 13

Some Opinions.

MOST of those who abstain from ﬂesh foods do so because
of the suffering inﬂicted on the animals. In reply to

them it has been argued that Nature is “ red in tooth and
claw,” and that, as Rev. Dr. Parker remarked, we take in

innumerable animals with the air we breathe and the water
we drink.

The tiger kills with a blow, and often before his presence is

known; and some carnivora hypnotize their prey. Millions of

minute creatures in air and water live in our bodies as happily as
outside. That is very different from the inﬂiction of needless
suffering on sensitive creatures capable of affection, and endowed
with abilities sometimes superior to those of man. It is a gross
abuse of man’s power.

Mr. George Bernard Shaw wrote :—“Why should you call
me to account for eating decently P If I battened on the scorched
corpses of animals you might well— ask me why I did that.”

OEJOCEWEDoao

A child, Jennie Cockburn, got on the track of a fast on-coming
electric car. She was paralysed with terror and unable to move.
The motor man made frantic efforts to apply the brakes in time.
Seeing his playmate’s danger, her collie dog, Buster, rushed to the
rescue, seized her by her clothes and, with a quick pull, brought
her to the ground and out of danger.

.. malmwr~mvw~..y.vw _ .. re _s _H

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

l—l HUMANE LIFE

Pit Ponies.

ONE who occupied some of his spare time during the war in
collecting sphagnum moss on Dartmoor writes :—

HAt one time I went daily from my hotel to an isolated part
of the moor where good moss was to be found. Before arriving
at the gathering ground I had to cross a sharp rise in the road.
Just beyond that rise I found a group of Dartmoor ponies enjoying
the rich pasture. They evidently looked out daily for my coming
at the usual time and, on my appearance over the summit, they set
up a loud chorus of neighing, as much as to say “ Here he is."

One of them, evidently as a joke, backed on to my motor car,
half neighing and, to my mind it seemed, half laughing and
meaning HNow, how are you going to get along with me in the
way?” That point was soon settled for the pony found the
radiator too unpleasant and bolted away sooner than he had

intended.

It was sad to know that any day there might be a round up
resulting in the ponies being taken away to work in the darkness
and misery of the coal pits. The Pit Ponies" Protection Society in
February last reported that there are 500 large collieries and 600
small collieries that do not now employ pit ponies below ground.
Mechanical conveyors are used instead. The Society appeals to
all buyers of coal to join the growing number of people who feel
obliged on humane grounds to buy coal from non-pony pits. This
should go far towards the ﬁnal extinction of the evil. Lists of
such pits can be obtained from the Society.

7




r

HUMANE LIFE 15

MISCELLANEOUS.

Teddy, a Newfoundland dog, when out with his owner, Olaf
Hansen, came to where they could see two children playing on a
raft on a river and about 75 feet from the shore. The raft upset
and, but for the dog’s prompt action, the children would have
been drowned. Entirely of his own initiative, the dog ran till he
reached a point directly opposite where the children were
struggling in the water. He then swam to them and still watered
till one child got hold of his collar and the other of his tail. He
then brought them to safety.

>l'r' 3? it?

From the Dundee Advertiser of 26th May, 1923.

“ An interesting incident, exhibiting commendable consid-
eration on the part of several Perth schoolboys. took place on
Cragie Hill Golf Course on_Thursday afternoon on the occasion
of Gene Sarazen’s exhibition game. During the progress of the
match a local gentleman stumbled across a lark’s nest containing
four or five eggs. Desirous of protecting the little home from
being trodden upon unwittingly by the spectators, he stood
guarding it, when, to his surprise, several schoolboys appeared
on the scene and asked to be allowed to take care of the nest.
This they did by sitting down in a circle round the nest until the
crowd had passed.

HAnother nest, which happened to be in the line of the
huge crowd was similarly safeguarded by the considerate school—
boys.”

" Quite a number of spectators were interested in the kindly
act, which showed a sympathy with bird life not usually associated
with schoolboys.”

‘ ...'.£‘ “

 




 

 

The following periodical publications

are recommended :—

 

“ Cruel Sports,”

 

 

“ The Vegetarian Messenger,”
“ The Vegetarian News,”

“ The Abolitionist,”

“ The Epoch,”

“ The Animals’ Friend.”

 

 

 

 

HUMANE LIFE

 

Single COPY 7d l [W Post

Four (quarterly) copies per year 2]-}

 

Apply to THE EDITOR,
WYNHURST, 94, PENN HILL AVENUE,

 

PARKSTONE, DORSET.

 

 

 

Printed by H. Welsford, North Devon Printing Works, Ilfracombe.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 




._-..- Vﬂﬂw‘ \— m—

_
.
4
4
U

 




