s. l. HAYAKAWA Contains-.23:

CALIFORNIA AGRICULTURE. NUTRITION.
AND FORESTRY

PATTY WHITE
FOREIGN RELATIONS

ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT ‘ g cuifeh ﬁfa{c$ ﬁcnafe SMALL BUS|NESS

WASHINGTON. D.C. 20510

June 7, 1982

Mrs. Hazel Bennett
10373 South Bethel
Selma, California 93662
Dear Mrs. Bennett:

Thank you for your letter concerning the use of leg-hold and
steel jaw_traps. I appreciate your comments.

There are two bills which address this issue. In the House
of Representatives, Congressman Long introduced H.R. 374 which
would prohibit the shipment into interstate or foreign commerce
of fur or leather products from animals trapped in a state or
foreign country which permits the manufacture, sale, or use of
the trap. In the Senate, Senator Weicker introduced a similar
bill, S. 2239.

If and when these bills are discussed on the Senate floor,

I will keep your Views in mind. It was good to hear from you.

Sincerely,

S. I. HayakaWa

SIH=lss

 




S. 1.5’HAYAKAWA I; COMMITTEES:

max I: LJFORNIA “
,, CA. . 1 AGRICULTURE, NUTRITION.
I AND FORESTRY

FOREIGN RELATIONS

ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT ’9‘] (“itch ${aieﬁ genafe SMALL BUSINESS

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

September I, 1981

Ms. Margaret Louise Feldman
118 South William Street
South Bend, Indiana 46601

Dear Ms. Feldman:
Thank you for writing about wild horses and burros.

Several news reports have indicated that the Bureau of
Land Management (BLM) has planned to intentionally destroy six
thousand of the eleven thousand wild horses and burros expected
to be removed from public lands in fiscal year 1982. However,
the BLM has assured me that no such plan exists.

The Wild Free-Roaming Horse and Burro Act provides for
protection, management, and control of these animals on lands
administered by the U.S. Forest Service and the BLM. These
animals play an important role in multiple-use management.
Appropriate populations of wild horses and burros will be
maintained on the public lands. The number of animals to

be managed on a specific area is determined through BLM‘s
multiple-use planning system, which includes opportunities
for public participation.

To protect the rangeland from overgrazing and to maintain
healthy herds of wildlife, livestock, and wild horses and burros,
it is necessary to control populations of these animals on public
lands. Wildlife populations are controlled primarily through
hunting permits, and livestock numbers are limited through the
BLM's grazing permit system. Wild horse and burro populations
are controlled by removal of excess animals in accordance with
the Wild Free-Roaming Horse and Burro Act, which specifies the
order and priority for these removals. First, old, sick or lame
animals are destroyed in the most humane manner possible. Next,
any additional excess wild horses and burros remaining on the
public rangeland are humanely captured and made available for
private maintenance as long as an adoption demand by qualified
individuals exists. Finally, wild horses and burros for which no
adoption demand exists, are destroyed in the most humane and cost
efficient manner possible.

Although the recently announced increase in the adoption
fees will affect the number of individuals who are willing and
able to adopt a wild horse or burro, the precise extent of the
impact is unknown. BLM intends to continue its active publicity

 




Ms. Margaret Louise Feldman
September I, 198]
Page 2

campaigns to increase adoption demand, and anticipates that
qualified adopters will be found for all excess animals removed
from the public rangelands. However, if the number of wild
horses and burros to be removed from the rangelands is higher
than the number of animals requested by individuals willing and
qualified to adopt animals, it will be necessary to destroy those
animals for which homes cannot be found.

In response to recommendations by the Office of Management
and Budget and the House of Representatives' Committee on
Interior and Insular Affairs, the fees are being increased to
more closely reflect the actual cost of capturing and adopting
animals. In a time of fiscal restraint in all areas of the
federal government, it is necessary to reduce Adopt-A-Horse
program subsidies by recovering more of the program costs from
the individuals who benefit from and eventually may own their
adopted wild horse or burro.

I appreciate your concern for the welfare of wild horses and
burros. If I may be of assistance, please let me know.

Sincerely,

 




’QlCniieb ﬁfafes $enafe

WASHINGTON. D.C. 20510

April 2, 1981

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Smith
4790 Venner Road

Martinez, California 94553
Dear Mr. and Mrs. Smith:

Thank you for expressing your concerns and suggestions on
issues of importance to all of us.

As you know, several pieces of legislation regarding animal
experimentation were introduced during the 96th Congress. One of
the major anti-vivisection bills, H.R. uaos, resulted in a joint
study of alternative research methods by the House Subcommittee
on Science, Research, and Technology and the National Institutes
of Health. I also sent representatives to the Food and Drug

Administration symposium held in February, 1981 to study in-vivo-

in-vitro methods of research. I am carefully considering the

results of these studies, as well as your comments on this issue.

I appreciated the opportunity to discuss these issues. I
hOpe you will continue to keep me informed of your thinking.

Sincerely,

Salem

S. I.Hayaka£:\

SIH:amb ( M x\/z’/L//// {15/ #147
"’ 1322/ @24/2/ ﬂ 3%

7/ZZZ) ;2%:

W W %6 MW . '
Z” M2222; /

 




 

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD CLIPPINGS
1868 Columbia Road, N.W°
Washington, D C. 20009

Date: MAY 11 1981

WGRESSI 0 AL RECORD -—-i SEN ATE

Policy Review 11 winch Dr, Lefever outlined It surelvacts asifrit had-accepts acontraet
lit h1s v1eWs 4 Mr dartes’ 3 human rights £19m the Arabs to do -as much damage as-
thou I. had better mention that. possiblearto the: nation s supply 91‘ energy
gt 1 . “human rights community” ' '
might ac "$3911 of. genocide. ca

_ , /'
g 5 ' ;: 1 | AWAY " .'

Mr- AYAKA WA L P.resident, there
is an in- ~- iriCal column by Mr.
Wit-be Melhnkoﬁ columnist for the San
Francisco Chronicle about the errors
Which the Sierra Club has been making
With regard to 3112111 darters, the Alaskan

' caribou; and ﬁshing 011' the California
;cmmt

I Would like to share this with my col-
leagues, and I ask unanimous consent
that this column be printed in the

.lREconn. ‘

There being no ob3e0ti'on, the column i
Was ordered to be printed“ in the RECORD,
asfeHGWS'~~.+ ,

, THEY FINnAWAY ' - ' Q

Once more, the Sierra Club is acting very ‘
uppity toward their friends, the dumb ani-

.The trouble with the bureaucrats who
run the club is their continual over-estimat-
ing the dumbness of dumb animals -

Consider the plight Wdarters For
three years the Sierra Club and its enViron-
mental allies stalled the cempletion of the
mighty Tellico Dam in Tennessee. Against
the pontical clout or Senator Howard Baker.
the Sierrans waved the imminent demise of
all three-inch snail darters.

Finany Senator Baker prevailed. He got his
dam. The Waters rose and destroyed the nat-'
ural habitat of the darter. But the ﬁsh should
not be taken so lightly. Plenty of them have -
now been discovered 83 miles from the dam.
Nobody knOWs hoW they 'got there. And the
darters have declined to issue a deﬁnitive

1 statement. Neither has the club apologized.

The miScaleulation on the darter follows a ‘

. mightier mistake about the caribou. Riding
9.0.3 the backs 01’ these stately animals—no
5" mean feat in itselI—the club fought the

Constructm‘n of the Alaska Pipeline. The
adhere-ground sections of the project would

 

 

 

 

 

 

13f ‘

c objective oI depriving the coun-

“dif'energy is the same But there
51

 

planation has
his eﬁf-i the
eﬁshat all

 




 

 

S. l. HAYAKAWA chMiTTEES:

C

ALIFORNIA AGRICULTURE. NUTRITION,
AND FORES TRY

GENE PRAT. PH. T).
FOREIGN RELATIONS

ADMINIS

TRAT!VE ASSISTANT wtniﬁeb '$£a{c% ﬁgnaig sMALL BUSINESS

V'JASHINGTON, D.C. 21:53.10

ﬁguril 1

Ms. Margaret Q. Wehinger
6965 Chambers Drive
Oakland, California 94611

Dear Ms. Wehinger:

Thank you for your letter concerning the Department of the
Interior's Animal Damage Control Program.

In November, the Secretary of the Interior announced
revisions to the Animal Damage Control Program for fiscal year
1980. Those revisions included a ban on the current methods of
predator control except in areas where damage to livestock is
substantial, an end to the research on compound 1080, and a ban
on the practice of dennine. Overall, the focus of the Depart“
ment's new program is on the development of new and environ-
mentally acceptable methods of animal control.

p In response to the secretary's actions, I joined with
fourteen other Senators in cosigning a letter to the Secretary of
Interior stating our objections to the Department's new policy.
Eight major objections were outlined in the letter. The letter
emphasized our belief that the revisions to the Animal Control
Program do not meet the growing need to protect livestock and
control predators. In particular, we questioned the absolute ban“
on denning, the decrease of aerial gunning, and the elimination

”ofwresearch on Compound 1380. The letter also stressed the fact,

r-\.v ~43

 

 

that the new policies place ranchers at an increasing economic
. \wm , _ 7
d :L S a dv ant, a ge . Warm”

 

I appreciate receiving your views on this matter and will
keep them in mind.

sincerely yourS,

a. I. Hayakawa

\
l.

SIH/mgs

 




f 1W-
5. I. HAYA KAWA communes:

CALIFORNIA ' AGRICULTURE. NUTRITION.
AND FORESTRY V
GENE PRAT, PH. D.

. FOREIGN RELATIONS
ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT QJcnvaea $£a£c$ ﬁenafe SMALL BUSINESS

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

March 31, 1980

Mr. Robert Melvin
430 Canyon Drive
Solana Beach, California 92075

Dear Mr. Melvin:

I was glad to hear from you regarding a matter of mutual
concern, and I appreciate your interest.

I have received many letters asking that I look into the
matter of vivisection. In response to these requests, I have
been in touch with many related organizations to determine if
there has been any research done in this area. In particular, I
am interested in knowing whether or not there are good
alternatives to using live animals in medical experiments. Be
assured that I shall review the material I receive on this issue
carefully, and will keep your concerns in mind.

It was good hearing from you.

Sincerely yours,

I. Hayakawa

 




90/9 L
s. I. HAYAKAWA commas

CALIFORNIA AGRICULTURE. NU
AND FOREST'

GENE PRAT, PH. D.
' FOREIGN RELAT

ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT g [nifeh ﬁfafeg ﬁenaie ’ SMALL BUSINE‘

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

April 1, 1980

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Melvin
030 Canyon Drive
Solana Beach, California 92075

Dear Mr. and Mrs. Melvin:

Thank you for your letter concerning the Department of the
Interior's Animal Damage Control Program.

In November, the Secretary of the Interior announced
revisions to the Animal Damage Control Program for fiscal year
1980. Those revisions included a ban on the current methods of
predator control except in areas where damage to livestock is
substantial, an end to the research on compound 1080, and a ban
on the practice of denning. Overall, the focus of the Depart-
ment's new program is on the development of new and environ-
mentally acceptable methods of animal control.

In response to the Secretary's actions, I joined with
fourteen other Senators in cosigning a letter to the Secretary of
Interior stating our objections to the Department's new policy.
Eight major objections were outlined in the letter. The letter
emphasized our belief that the revisions to the Animal Control
Program do not meet the growing need to protect livestock and
control predators. In particular, we questioned the absolute ban
on denning, the decrease of aerial gunning, and the elimination
of research on Compound 1080. The letter also stressed the fact
that the new policies place ranchers at an increasing economic
disadvantage. .

' I appreciate receiving your views on this matter and will
keep them in mind. ‘ .

Sincerely yours,

8. I. Hayakawa

SIH/mgs

 




S. I. HAYAKAWA COMMITTEES:

CALIFORNIA AGRICULTURE, NUTRITION.
AND FORESTRY

GENE PRAT, PH. D.
FOREIGN RELATIONS

ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT ’9’] (“itch ﬁfafeﬁ $ena£e SMALL BUSINESS

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

February 11,

dary T. Center

University Avenue

Alto, California 94301

Mrs. Center:

Thank you for your letter concerning the use of steel jaw

leghold traps.

S. 536, which would discourage the use of those traps in the

United States, has been introduced in the Senate and referred to

the Committee on Environment and Public Works. No further action
has been scheduled at this time.
Please be assured I will keep your views in mind should the
bill reach the Floor of the Senate.
Sincerely yours,
€;§g;a:‘ IAzgﬁrdLAEGLHGZ
. . Hayakawa

SIH/mgs

 




QJCnifeb .gﬁafes $enafe

WASHINGTON. D.C. 205‘0

July 15, 1980

Mr. Harry S. Mays
2409 Pine Knoll, 2
Walnut Creek, California 9&595

Dear Mr. Mays:

Thank you for your letter concerning the Tsongas-Roth
amendment to the Alaska Lands bill.

As you know, the Tsongas-Roth amendment provides for
increases in park, forest and wilderness acreage. In addition,
it would designate more wild and scenic rivers than S. 9, the
bill which has been reported out of the Senate Committee on
Energy and Natural Resources. The Tsongas—Roth amendment would
also close the Arctic Wildlife Range to oil and gas exploration
and would extend wilderness protection in the southeast part of
Alaska.

According to the provisions of a time agreement worked out
by the Senators from Alaska and members of the Energy and Natural
Resources Committee, the Senate will not consider any Alaska
lands legislation until after July 4, 1980. The time agreement‘
also limits both the tine for debate on amendments to the Alaska
Lands bill and the number of amendments which can be offered.

The time agreement will prevent a filibuster from occuring when
the legislation is considered on the Senate floor.

I appreciate receiving your views on this important matter.
Please be assured that I will keep your views in mind when the
Alaska legislation comes before the Senate for consideration.

Sincerely yours,

8. I. Hayakawa

 




S. I. HAYAKAWA COMMITTEES:

CALIFORNIA

AGRICULTURE, NUTRITION,
AND FORESTRY

ADMCI'SIZER:::I:.APS:ISDT:ANT ¢ FOREIGN RELATIONS
9.] Cntfeh $£a£e$ ﬁenafe SMALL BUSINESS

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

September 2,

Mr. Harry S. Mays
2009 Pine Knoll, 2
Walnut Creek, California 9n595

Dear Mr. Mays:

I was glad to hear from you regarding a matter of mutual
concern, and I appreciate your interest.

The fur seals who make their home in the Pribilofs are not
listed as an endangered Species. At the turn of the century
there were approximately 300,000 of these seals throughout the
Aleutian Islands. There are now approximately 1.5 million seals
in the area and the annual harvest is limited to 25,000 seals.
Many of the furs from these seals are used extensively by the
native Aleuts, a group of peOple placed in the area by the Rus-

sians two or three hundred years ago specifically to harvest the
furs. '

At present, there is a bill in the House of Representatives,
H.R. 5033, which would provide for the establishment of a wild~
life refuge and a marine sanctuary in the Pribilof Islands. The
taking of the seals would be prohibited in this area. The bill
has been referred to the House Committees on Merchant Marine and
Fisheries, and Interior and Insular Affairs.

Similar legislation, S. 2619, was introduced in the Senate
on April 28, 1980 by Senator Levin. The bill has been referred
to four Senate Committees for consideration.

It was good hearing from you.

Sincerely yours,

&.&W

S. I. Hayakawa

 




s. I. HAYAKAWA COMMITTEES:
CAL'FORN'A AGRICULTURE. NUTRITION.
AND FORESTRY

GENE PRAT, PH. D.
' FOREIGN RELATIONS

ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT y (“itch ﬁiaieﬁ ﬁenafe SMALL BUSINESS

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

December 1,

Mr. Harry S. Mays
2409 Pine Knoll, 2

Walnut Creek, California 9u595

Dear Mr. Mays:

Thank you for expressing your concerns and suggestions on
issues of importance to all of us.

As you know, several pieces of legislation regarding
inhumane animal experimentation have been introduced during the
96th Congress. Although none of them came before the full Con-
gress for consideration, constituents such as you have made me
and my colleagues aware of the need to reform animal experi-
mentation methods. One of the major anti-vivisection bills,
H-R. 4805, resulted in a joint study of alternative research
methods by the House Subcommittee on Science, Research, and
Technology and the National Institutes of Health. I look
forward to working with you during the 97th Congress regarding
animal experimentation methods.

Sincerely,

gcu‘évw

S. I. Hayakawa

 




_——_.

S. I.

x, an.

HAYAKAWA COMMITTEES:
CALIFORNIA
1

AGRICULTURE. NUTRITION.
AND FORESTRY

GENE PRAT. PH. D.

[ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT [PJ (“itch ﬁfafeg genaie SMALL BUSINESS

FOREIGN RELATIONS

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

August 5, 1980

Mr. H. Mays

President, Rossmoor Friends of Animals
2409 Pine Knoll

Walnut Creek, California 94595

Dear Mr. Mays:

Thank you for getting in touch with me regarding H.R. 39,
the controversial Alaska lands legislation. This is one of the
most important environmental bills of the century. The fundamen-
tal question is how much land in Alaska the federal government
will continue to control and to what degree the land will either
be protected or remain open for multiple use activities.

Senate debate on the massive Alaska lands legislation began
on July 21. There was extensive debate between those who favor
the compromise bill reported by the Senate Energy and Natural
Resources Committee and the conservationist-backed amendments
proposed by Senator Tsongas, which would move the legislation

closer to the version approved by the House.

On May 16, 1979, the House passed a very liberal Alaska
lands bill. I believe a more conservative Senate bill is needed
so that a fair compromise can be reached when the House-Senate
Conference Committee meets to settle differences between the two
bills.

The outcome of H.R. 39 will greatly affect several indus-
tries such as timber, minerals, oil and gas. The lands in Alaska
contain resourCemand economiﬁ Opportunities that will be avail-
able only if a significant portion of the national interest lands
remain Open to multiple use. The final measure will undoubtedly
set a precedent for future environmental issues.

The argument over the future of Alaska has reached a crit-
ical point. After a stalemate developed during the course of
debate on the Senate floor, the Committee members decided to
attempt to work out a compromise before continuing the debate.
A compromise is presently being worked out by Senators off the
floor. '

I appreciate hearing your comments on the Alaska lands
issue. You may be certain that I am working to pass legislation
that achieves a sensible balance of interests. If the members of

 




Mr. H. Mays
August 5, 1980
Page 2

the Senate Committee on Environment and Natural Resources reach a
reasonable compromise, I will continue to support their position.

Sincerely yours,

$547M

S. I. Hayakawa

 




I at

S. l. HAYAKAWA
CALIFORNIA

COMMITTEES:
AGRICULTURE. NUTRITION.
AND FORESTRY

GENE PRAT ' HUMAN RESOURCES
ADMIN 'r TIV SI 0
's “A “‘5 5w" @Cndeb ﬁfaies ﬁenaie BUDGET

WASHINGTON. D.C. 20510

July 16, 1979

Ms. Mary T. Center
1233 University Avenue
Palo Alto, California 94301

Dear Ms. Center:

Thank you for your letter regarding the use of steel jaw
leghold traps. , *

In the 96th Congress, a bill has been introduced in the
House to discourage the use of these traps in the United States.
This bill, H.R. 1297 was referred to the subcommittee on
transportation and commerce. No further action has been taken.

I appreciate your taking the time to inform me of your
views. '

Sincerely yours,

swam

S. I. Hayakawa

 




S. I. HAYAKAWA coumrraes:

CALIFORNIA AGRICULTURE. NUTRITION.
AND FORESTRY

GENE PRAT, PH. D.
FOREIGN RELATIONS

ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT ’2} Cnifea ﬁiafeg $ena£¢ SMALL BUSINESS

WASHINGTON. D.C. 20510

March a, 1980

Ms. Lucille Moses
1118 Hermosillo Glen
Escondido, California 92026

Dear MS . MOSES 2

Thank you for your letter concerning the Department of the
Interior's Animal Damage Control Program.

In November, the Secretary of the Interior announced
revisions to the Animal Damage Control Program for fiscal year
1980. Those revisions included a ban on the current methods of
predator control except in areas where damage to livestock is
substantial, an end to the research on compound 1080, and a ban
on the practice of denning. Overall, the focus of the Depart-
ment's new program is on the develOpment of new and environ—
mentally acceptable methods of animal control.

In response to the Secretary's actions, I joined with
fourteen other Senators in cosigning a letter to the Secretary of
Interior stating our objections to the Department's new policy.
Eight major objections were outlined in the letter. The letter
emphasized our belief that the revisions to the Animal Control
Program do not meet the growing need to protect livestock and
control predators. In particular, we questioned the absolute ban
on denning, the decrease of aerial gunning, and the elimination
of research on Compound 1080. The letter also stressed the fact
that the new policies place ranchers at an increasing economic
disadvantage.

I appreciate receiving your views on this matter and will
keep them in mind.

Sincerely yours,

Hayakawa

 




S. I. HAYAKAWA COMMITTEES:

CALIFORNIA AGRICULTURE. NUTRITION.
AND FORESTRY

GENE PRAT HUMAN RESOURCES

ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT genifeb $£df¢$ ﬁ en “1 e BUDGET

WASHINGTON, DC. 20510

July 18, 1979

Mr. Harry S. Mays
2409 Pine Knoll, 2
Walnut Creek, California 9u595

Dear Mr. Mays

Thank you for writing about the Alaskan wilderness
legislation.

Several Alaskan wilderness bills have been introduced in the
96th Congress. H.R. 39, which recently passed the House of
Representatives, would set aside 128 million acres in 13 national
parks, 21 wildlife refuges, 12 wild and scenic rivers and two
national forest wildernesses. S. 9 and S. 222 were introduced in
the Senate and referred to the Senate Committee on Energy and
Natural Resources. S. 9 would also designate certain lands and
waters in Alaska as wilderness. No action has been taken by the
Committee.

After visiting Alaska for the third time, I have decided to
support legislation which provides protection for Alaska's vast
and beautiful natural resources, while allowing for limited
development of mineral and timber resources under strict
regulatory conditions. I will fully review the findings of both
the House and Senate Committees and will keep your views in mind

if legislation on the Alaskan wilderness reaches the Senate
Floor.

Sincerely yours,

gram

S. IftHayakawa

 




 

SPECIAL REPORT

from

U. S. SENA LE.
S. I HAYAKAWA

1
\ 95th CONGRESS

\\\\-111111«»ws"””ﬂﬁﬂﬂr I

THE TUNArPORPOISE DILEMMA

 

 

 

Dear Friend,

This is a special message to those of you Who are deeply concerned about the
tuna— -porpoise controversy that is currently being debated in Congress. Four bills
have been introduced to ease Federal restrictions limiting the porpoise kill quota
for 1977 and 1978. H. R 6970 was passed in the House on June 1 after considerable
revision and has now been referred to the Senate for consideration.

.Among the bills to be considered.by the Senate are H.R. 6970, S. 1550 introduced
by Senator Nbgnuson on behalf of the Carter.Administration, and S. 373 and S. 1552
'which I have introduced in the Senate on the tuna—porpoise question.

One of the first bills I introduced after taking office in January was S. 373
‘ which —- if enacted.-- would have avoided the dire consequences of unemployed
fiShermen and an idle tuna fleet. Unfortunately, because of objections from
environmental groups no action was taken by Congress at that time and.the tuna industry
operations came to a halt.

The two bills that I have introduced are aimed at remedying some of the obvious
shortcomings of the Marine annel Protection.Act of 1972. The.Act did not foresee
the terrible economic burden it has placed upon American tuna fishermen. NOr did it
consider the fact that foreign tuna fishermen, not bound by our laws, can continue to
fish freely by any method they choose, and without regard to the porpoise population.

Rep. John.Nbrphy of New York introduced-H.R- 6970 on May 5, but the bill was
greatly altered before passage. Briefly, the provisions adopted by the Heuse would
set the 1977 kill quota at 68,910, leave the 1980 quota to the discretion of the
Secretary of Commerce, maintain a goal of zero mortality to be achieved by significant
annual reductions, ban foreign tuna not caught by ULS. standards, and.not force the
industry to pay for the proposed government Observers.

The Administration's bill, S. 1550, ‘would reduce the porpoise kill quota to i 1-..‘=
69,000, assure that the quota would.be further reduced to insignificant levelsK ” ' i‘-
approaching zero by 1980, ban.imports of tuna from.foreign fleets that do not temply
wnth U. S. standards, and Shift the cost of the observer program.from.the publicbto
the industry. .

 




I have introduced in the Senate S. 1552, a companion to the original, unamended
Murphy bill, to help the tuna fishermen by establishing a workable porpoise k111
quota of 78,910 marine mammal mortalities for 1977 and 1978.

The bill would require that a government observer be placed on each vessel
over 400 tons to obtain hard statistics on the porpoise populations and the
effectiveness of technological improvements which are being made. The program
would be funded by the Federal government and last through 19 78.

S. 1552 further requires the tuna industry to dediCate a tuna vessel for
research to reduce marine mammal mortalities. What has not been made clear, and
should be, is that tuna fishermen don't want to take porpoises I believe American
tuna fishermen are sincere in their efforts to protect the porpoise. The industry
is constantly improving its methods of harvesting fish

The Senate Commerce Committee plans to hold hearings on the tuna—porpoise
controversy soon. With this in mind, I will be visiting the tuna fleet in San
Diego on July 16 to discuss problems facing the California tuna industry. You can
be sure that I am actively working in the Senate to help find a practical legislative
solution to the tuna-porpoise question.

With best wishes ,
Sincerely ,

swam

S.I. Hayakawa
United States Senator

Please write or Call my office if we may be of service--your opinions and
suggestions are appreciated.

Senator S. I. Hayakawa

6217 Dirksen Office Building
Washington, DC. 20510
Phone (202) 224-3841

 




 

 

1
!
I

“luv. I . J. LAM) riuu bilau. .u‘vpvsxu, :4“ Vs. m. . x.-

0 her 1,4977. ﬁg

- ‘v .- :1" ' 85‘ ’yxf : 0
By Mr;._,HAYAKAWA ;. /@£2\
.8. 373. A 739111.-..129mamend” the Marine

Mammal Protection \Act of 1972 in con-
nection with" e incidental taking of
marin mamma -' with commercial ﬁsh—
ing,‘ ,0 g e 0mm ttée on Commerce.

ﬁr. HAYAKAWA. Mr. President, I am
inﬁrfgducin __.,/,today a bill to~ amend the
Mar ammal Protection Act of 1972
in connection with the incidental taking
of marine mammals with commercial
ﬁshing-One exception to the moratorium
on the taking of all marine mammals,
imposed, by the Marine Mammal Protec-
tion Act of 1972, permits such taking
when incidental to commercial ﬁshing.
Incidental taking is subject . to a permit
program governed by regulations of the
Secretary of Commerce.

The incidental taking provisions of the

- act have had a serious impact on the tuna

ﬁshing industry. Most tuna caught by
the U.S. tuna ﬁshing industry are taken
by encircling schools of porpoise with
large purse seines. For reasons not un-
derstood, yellowﬁn tuna swim beneath
the porpoise Schools. After the porpoise
are ‘released from the net, the tuna are

. harvested. Most porpoise swim Tsafely

free, but a substantial number each year
are caught in the nets and drowned. As
an immediate goal, the” act requires that
such incidental taking be reduced to near
zero and prohibits any ﬁshing on por-
poise populations which are below the
optimum sustainable level. ' '

In the latter case, the act permits no I

flexibility; all ﬁshing must immediately
cease. Enforcement of current regula-
tions is hampered by lack of clear au-

' thority to place observers aboard tuna

vessels, particularly when the vessel has
not declared its intention to ﬁsh on
porpoise and consequently is not re-
quired to carry a permit. ,
As a result of these requirements, eve

though substantial progress has been

made by the industry, Operating under
regulations of the Secretary of Com-
merce and as a result of research spon—
sored by both the industry and the Fed-

V CONGRESSIONAL RECORD CLIPPINGS I“

1868 Columbia Road, NW
Washington, D,C, ,20 '

7. . «a . seer?" g:
I‘Date: JAN iii in] v

I h .5.

,0 ‘. 1 ’
/ .. 5/0 X3 ,
January 19, 1.977 cor

eral Government, has made good progress
in reducing porpoise mortality. Legal
ﬁshing on porpoise by the U.S. ﬂeet has ,
come to a halt. The industry is prohibited 1‘
by order of the district court for the Dis— ‘
trict of Columbia from ﬁshing on
porpoise. Even if this legal issue was dis- ;
posed of, it would be difﬁcult for the \
Secretary to permit tuna ﬁshing on .-
porpoise and achieve the goal of a level 1
of porpoise mortality near zero. .

The Secretary and many environ- j
mental conservation organizations be- ;
lieve that the present situation is unsat- ‘
isfactory from every standpoint, includ-
ing that of the porpoises themselves. The
prohibitions of the present law may .
cause a number of the members of the
U.S. tuna ﬂeet to attempt to transfer to .
foreign ﬂags or increase the market \s
share of foreign fleets, which would make
regulation of incidental killing difﬁcult y
or impOssible. Most parties familiar with ,
the problem are convinced that the ‘
progress in reduction of kill can be ‘
signiﬁCantly improved under appropriate .
regulations without causing extreme .
injury to the U.S. tuna ﬁshing industry.

The following amendments are intro- ‘
duced with the aim of remedying some .
of the obvious shortcomings of the act. :
They may not satisfy completely the in-
terests of the environmentalists nor those
of industry. I am, therefore, prepared to
examine carefully any improvement to

is bill which may be suggested in the
curse of the hearings.

—4’5-

M~.—....- r.~.._‘-. v _, _

‘h—A

 




I ‘L‘ ‘ A \f s ~r “’1‘. ""
' ~ Xi. .A“ ”L“ H ,h‘ (J until)!
‘ ' . v’lll’il‘iill -‘~.l Wi‘} IN 'EHF. WESF

, ' "ti
tl.‘ '\.\'-'\3.‘.._a

-.->.m»m"2 .. ,

Sen. 5. l. Hoyokowo or a news conference here

,t

Times photo by Jack Gaunt.

~Bill ALLOWS FISHING

BY RICHARD BERGHOLZ
‘ .. Times Political Wriifeif

' 1 war; {7. ~ .. A. “.7- .\_,.,..~,

’California’s freshmanv'Sen. S. l. Hayakawa said, Friday
that his first legislative act was, in effect, to do nothing
about the problem of catching tuna and killing porpoises.

What is needed, the Republican told a Century Plaza
news conference. is time to find What he called a “techno
logical solution” to the problem caused by the ﬁlling of
porpoises inadvertently caught by tuna fishermen.

Hayakawa said. he has .introduced a bill “to give the in»
dustry time.” He said it permits continued tuna fishing but
sets graduated standards for reduction of tuna catches ii
the porpoise population drops. <

He also said he next plans to introduce a bill to set a
youth minimum wage of $1.50 an hour for under~18 work’-
ers who, he said. currently are "underemployed.”

“For 14-. lB-year-olds; with no previous experience,
they're hardly worth that.” Hayakawa said.

'“Our society provides everything for youth. good high ,
schools and luxurious facilities for high school and junior
high school education, but what our society does not pro-v
vide is a beginning of responsibility for adulthood. It’s a
real deprivation.

.“The result is that we have an enormous wave of youth-
'fi'i crime. The young men are testing their manhood. And.
if. they can’t test them in legal ways. they’ll test it by
drugs, by stealing cars. by robbing liquor stores.”

Hayakawa criticized. President Carter for his executive
pardon issued to draft evaders Friday, but conceded he had
not understood the terms and limitations of the pardon.

Once again. the senator refused to say for Whom he votw
ed for Republican leader of the Senate. Sen. Howard. Baker
Jr. of Tennessee. beat Sen. Robert Griffin of Michigan by
one vote.

In his remarks to a fund-raising black—tie dinner later,
Hayakawa sought to redefine the constituency of the Re-
publican Party to concentrate on what he called "the great
middle class." .

The senator was introduced. by former Gov. Ronald
Reagan. More than 900 persons paid from. $75 to $100 each.
to help raise money to provide Hayakawa with between-
elections money to supplement his Senate salary. '

 

 




CONGRESSIONAL RECORD CLIPPINGS
1868 Columbia Road, N,W,
Washington, D,C. 20009
Date: ' ' "‘v

s 7842 . ‘ co

By Mr. RIEGLE:

SJ. Res. 55. A joint resolution authorizing
and requesting the President to issue a proc—
lamation designating the period from Octo-
ber 9 1977, through October 15, 1977, as
“National SchoOl, Bus,» Safety Week”; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.

 

STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED
BILLS AND JOINT RESQLUTIONS

By Mr. HAYAKAWA

S 1552. A bill to amend“ the Marine
Mammal Protection ““ch of 1972 with
respect to the taking of marine mam-
mals incidential to the course of com-
mercial ﬁshing operations, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.

Mr. HAYAKAWA. Mr. President, the
American tuna fleet has been in port
during March, April, and most of May
unable to go to sea because of severe
restrictive court decisions and the result—
ing administrative regulations. Prompt
legislative relief has become essential in
order to resolve this deleterious impasse.

I recognized the impending emergency
as early as January when I introduced
S. 373 which—if enacted—would have
avoided the dire consequences of unem-
ployed ﬁshermen and an idle tuna ﬂeet.
Unfortunately, because of the resistance
of environmental groups no action was
taken by Congress and the tuna ﬁshing
operations came to a grinding halt.

A few days ago Congressman JOHN
MURPHY, chairman of the Merchant
Marine and Fisheries Committee, intro-
duced HR. 6970 on which hearings are
currently being held. I am anxious to
join my New York colleague in his effort
to remove the existing barriers to con-
tinued operations by the American tuna
ﬂeet and am introducing today a similar
bill.

fEhe bﬂl cans for a loo—percent ob—
server program lasting through 1978
which will enable the Government to get
hard statistics on the porpoise popula-
tions and technological improvements
which are being made. It further re-
quires the tuna industry to dedicate a
tuna vessel for research to reduce marine
mammal mortalities. Finally, it provides
a quota of 78,900 marine mammal mor-
talities—down over 20,000 from 1976-—
which is essential if the ﬂeet is to ﬁsh
successfully in 1977.

Mr. President, in View of the present
emergency situation, I hope that the
Senate will promptly act on my bill.

 




‘iiiiE/‘EE

.191 W {S‘s

r', .

‘J, \iu

21:27.3}?

' SEN. S. 'L HAYAKAWA?
. .. .. having “wwondeffgiﬁme.”

. “1"" ' “- .‘ I g... .t '
,. «a! It? ', «L7. ........ kit.“ . ”-42“.

 ‘ Senator 5

BY MARLENE CIMONS

Times Staff Writer

.4" WASHINGTON-wit was shortly before noon on Inau-a
guration Day, a chilly, sunny morning on Capitol Hill. The
new Republican senator from California, S. I. Hayakawa,
sat beside Delaware Democratic Sen. Joseph Biden, wait»
ing for the ceremonies to begin.
Suddenly Hayakawa got up and began to walk awa ‘.
“Are you leaving?” Biden called out after him.

5‘ l

J. [.(«Lv . . .

‘I was prepared to dislike him,” sai
Rep. Peter Kostmayer ‘ ('D -‘Pa. ', ‘but

I ended up liking him enormously.’ ‘

“Yes.”
“But. . . but it’s just about to begin.” ,
“I don’t care,” Hayakawa is said to have replied. “My

ifeet are cold.” - ~

mu.—

. .. f.“

Every January, the Washington. Press Club sponsors a
fancy, black-tie dinner to hondr Congress. When it is a
new Congress, a group of freshmen from the House and.
Senate are invited to address the several thousand who at»
tend. '

it is considered the freshmen% debut. It givesthe press

5.; Please Turn to Page 4, Col. 1.

 




Port W43 Mon , Feb 7,197?

lbs Home; Timed

 

‘Free Spirit in Washington

“Continued from First Page 1‘;

his first look at the new lawmakers, and it gives the legis~ .,

sisters a coveted opportunity to make a dazzling first im~

tpression. This year, even President Carter agreed to come .

.and talk.

“This dinner has launched people in this town,” said
’Tom Heuse, first vice president of the club and co~chair~
“person of the dinner.
to So Eben asked to be one of the speakers, Hayakawa

ee
@gSut at 3 p. m. on the day of the dinner, one of his aides

Tailed the press club and said the new senator would not 3

:die there -

“She said he had a busy day,” said Sanford Ungar of the
ptlantic Monthly, the other oo-chairperson of the diner. “I,
said so has the President of the United States. And so have
the other seven members of Congress who are speaking—
and they’ve managed to shake loose I said it would be ems

3barrass1ng10r us and embarrassing to him. She said ‘Oh, it 3

when ’t be at all embarrassing to 111111., 9 .,
23” It was 1103? apparently, another attack of cold feet.

3;“
$5?

the office. He was here when I left, He didn’t realize the
’dinner was such a big deal.” ' ’ - ‘

LIt isn’t so much that Hayakawa" is bruising protocol as, at

EEC

.eampaign.

The stories—some verified others not—are racing." 3

' around Washington.
:3, Like how he fell asleep during those orientation lectures
at Harvard University for incoming members.

Or, how he reportedly asked Sen Damel Patrick Moyni‘o '
ban (D-N. Y. ) who he should vote for in the race for ma- 3

£3301in leader—with Moynihan explaining that Republicans
tinn’ t vote for Democratic leaders. (Moynihan, when asked

_ rites and then, when pressed for a yes or no, said it never
happened )

 

Too Much of an Intellectual

I ' Or how, after a week in Washington, Hayakawa report«

edly wondered aloud why he hadn’t run into Willie Brown.
‘iBrown is a California State assemblyman from San Fran-
:3eisco

33 Some say Hayakawa is just absent-minded. Others say

3 he is just too much of an intellectual in a legislative body

{I that does not abound with his kind.

it “First let me say that he is probably one of the brightest

.3 people I’ve ever met, ” said a man Who Was with him in the
Harvard classroom and who “spent a lot of time With him

xlent of class. “Having said that, however, one has to modify

3that view, considering his age and his problems with meme-
3101?? - '3 '

J The man said that Hayakawa4who showed up for every "

' :class4was hounded constantly by the media.

"‘ “He has no sympathy with journalists, no patience with

E3 the press at all, and there is something refreshing about

gthat, ” he said. “And he seems to be free to admit weak- .

mess. which is an astonishing qualityin Washirigto‘n.” ' .
‘Too Open, Too Frank’ 3

This: HayakaWa s biggeSt problem, accOrding to this man, .

is his candor. “He is too open, too frank. That’s why he is

.. 3tannerable. to the impression that he is in over his head. He . .,

. Was in great demand at HarVard among outside groups

“who wanted him to speak, he fulfilled endless numbers of v

silly commitments—and he was burned.
~ “Why should lie bother?” the man continued. “He’s nOt
{budding Seniority at his age. He can behave any way he

wants. He’s a semanticist4he really means What he says. '

3-3That is the opp0s1-te Of the way things are done here. It
1‘ may do him in, or it may give him the opportumty to do
the system in. There’s nothing worse than having a free
.L Sepirit on the Senate ﬂoor with a long needle decompressmg
balloons—when you’re one of the balloons;
“He won’t talk about the great 1ssues, but he. may end up
.:;talk1ng about the process in which the issues are resolved
3. 7 ”Which can strike at the heart of the democracy ”
3 1a ,.‘..-Hejust may shake the hell out of the

“He was hushed, ” the aide explained. “He stayed late in?

.;f to confirm the incident, evaded answering for several min- i

' 'L.’
j )

. There is nothing about Hayakaiva at first meeting that

suggests he is a hell- -raiser.‘ He sat, jacket off, not at his“ . :31; , .. *-
desk, but at a small table nearby, peeking out a letter on as L .311: ___
battered portable typeWriter. He is diminutive, very low-e. * ‘5

lﬁey, and he spoke“ in a voice so soft that he could barely be

' “I didn’t know what to expect when I came here,” he

said, leaving his typewriter and sitting down in a chair in
front of his desk. “I had no firm, clear-cut expectations.

But I wasn’t shocked or startled by anything. The much~‘
"quoted statement that the Senate is a gentleman’s club is

something I have found very much to be so. Everyone has

been very courteous and gentlemanly. It’s been terribly.

nice. I’m mhaving a wonderful time.” -

He ismiled. “The cliches in which we think about lndIVld~ 3
"(1318, the 80- called bleeding heart liberal or Cranky old ..

reactionary, when you meet those people in person, all

these characterizations disappear,” he said. “Instead, you

see them as very interesting, thoughtful people. ” 3

Rep. Peter Kostmayer (D- Pa. ), a liberal freshman who
sat next to Hayakawa during the Harvard lectures, had a,
Similar reaction, as seen from the other side “I was really L
prepared to dislike him, but I found him a rather engaging.
. fellow, very friendly,” he said. “I was able to kid around
3 With him quite easily. I have nothing at all politically in
.._..comnion with the man—but ended up liking him enor-

the age of 70, he begins a new career. He is just ignoring it a; mously ” 3

behaving in the same unorthodox way he did during the ' " _ ,. .._ . ' '

' Hayakawa said he does not place himself in the “cranky
3 Old reactionary” category. “I’ve not been thought of as a
. reactionary,” he said. “Actually, the liberal group of Re-
publicans in the Senate asked me to join them and so has
the more conservative group

- fCranky Old Reactionary?’

His choice? “Moat people belong to one and not the oth-

erg" he said. “Some people belong to neither. But I’ve been '3

going to both. And you know what? I’ve discovered there

isn’t so much ofia difference between them. Why should

they meet Separately? So, at my suggestion, they are going
to meet together once a month.”

His new friends, he said, include Sen. Ted Stevens (R-‘ Q
'AlaSka), freshman Sens. Orrin Hatch (II-Utah) and Mal- '
colm Wallop (It-Wye. ), and Sen. Strum Thurmond (R L

SCI

referring to the Senate minority leader.

At that point, he was asked about the alleged encounter .
with Moynihan over the majority leader race. “That was .

totally, totally false,” he Said. “It just wasn’t true. That
bothered me. I don’ t know who the hell Started that.” ‘
Admits a Few Snoozes ‘

The stories about his sleeping' in class, he said, Were also
exaggerated.‘ They overplayed that dozing thing,” he said,

," admitting that he did take a few snootzes. “But Harvard -
lectures are intolerably dull. And I was getting used to that

appalling steam heat. At a dinner they threw far me dur-

3'ing my last week in California, I danced with a half-dozen

girls, and up on the stage, -.too I was being extraordinarily
energetic.”
And, he said, he still tap dances for exercise. -’“It 5 terrific

.- . exercise. And it gives me an excuse to listen to all my old:
jazz records.”
He and his wife Margedant (who will divide her time ..
between Washington and California, where she edits Fre-.

montia, the journal of the California Native Plant Society)

have purchased a house on Capitol Hill, described as one of

the most beautiful in the neighborhood.

“It’ s a huge old house that we are redecorating and re-
furbishing,” Hayakawa said. “It should be ready by the
end of March. In the meantime, we’ re hving in a big apart-
ment complex in southwest Washington.” 3

 

 

“And I’ve developed a connderable affection for our.
glbribus leader, Sen. Howard Baker (It-Tenn. l,” he said, ,

 

aWa ’3 house before it was sold to

‘ilts one of the nicest on the Hill,” he said. “It

ﬁreplaces, a unique bathroom upstairs

' 3' p 7’" walls and a rock garden, a magniﬁcent
$5 large living room. We didn’t buy it, though.

. le economics They were asking $185,000.” =
r a said he has net had any trouble getting

d 1"" Please Turn to Page 5, (301.1

 

 




SENATOR SAM ~

Continued from 4th Page

around Capitol Hill, which includes a maze of buildings
that often confuses newcomers.

“The most baffling thing for me is trying to follow the
details of the motions on the floor of the Senate,” he said.
“To table, to refer to committee, to amend—so many
things come up, you don’t know whether you are coming
or going. It’s the process. You lose track of where you are.”

Likes Parliamentary Language

But the parliamentary language pleases him.

“I think it is very nice,” he said. “It’s so much better to
refer to someone as a gentleman-instead of ‘hey you.’ ”

He has. been temporarily assigned to the Agriculture and ~
Interior committees, pending the outcome of a planned
Senate reorganization, and hopes he will be able to stay
there. Several weeks ago, he introduced his first bill, legis-
lation to relax the quotas for,,pgrpﬂses killed by the tuna
fishing industry, a modification ofthe 1972 Marine Mam-
mal Protection Act. He also plans to sponsor legislation to
reduce the minimum wage for teen-agers.

“Sometimes it’s necessary for a 14-year-old to be able to
work,” he said. “It’s part of their education. So many get so
bored with school that it’s a disservice to keep them there.
We ought to make it easier for employers to hire them.
Few kids are worth $2.30 an hour. None of us begin life
worth $2.30 an hour.” ,

He has also joined with the senior senator from Califor—,
nia (and majority whip), Alan Cranston, in the creation of,
a bipartisan panel of attorneys and laymen to screen
potential. candidates for the state’s four US. attorney jobs:
and any future federal judgeships. The two met for nearly
an hour last week to work out the details.

‘Clearly . . .Intelligently . . .Judiciously’

“He thought it over very carefully and consulted many
, people and came back to me with some proposals for
changes in my original plan,” CranstOn said. “We worked
: it all out. We took some of his suggestions. I thought he fo-
‘ cused clearly and intelligently and judiciously on the
issues. He made the decisions—not his staff. He knew
. what he was doing and he did it well.” , '

Hayakawa said he and his California colleague have an
amiable and cordial relationship, despite Cranston’s enthu-
' siastic endorsement of the man Hayakawa defeated, for-
mer Sen. John V. Tunney. “I just didn’t hear him,” Haya-
kawa said, referring to Cranston’s support of Tunney.

Democrat Cranston agreed. “He knows that’s the way it
is. But now, there really aren’t any bad vibes at all, despite
our political differences.”

Cranston laughed. “Actually, we found one thing we do
agree on,” he said. “We’re both against earthquakes.”

The following exchange was overheard recently be-
tween two lobbyists discussing the behavior of the new
senator from California.

“Well,” said one. “You could say he’s unique.”

“Thank God,” the other one said. ‘

 




OCtOber IN THIS LETTER: VOTE on November 2nd:

1 9 7 6W The Tunney—Haxakawa U. S. Senate Race
NO on Prgp. 13 - Greyhound Racing Gambling

 

 

Post Office Box 39534, Los Angeles, California 90039

HUMANE CIVIC Legislative Action Reggrt
ASSOCIATION Vote for Humane Candidates:

 

 

Support for Animal Breedinq Control

While it is estimated that voter apathy and disenchantment will result

in less than 50% of Americans casting their votes at the polls on November
2: in probably the most crucial time in our history, THE STAKES ARE TOO
HIGH FOR THE PEOPLE, AND FOR THE ANIMALS WITH WHICH WE SHARE THIS EARTH,

for WE, THE PEOPLE, to remain silent.

GO TO THE POLLS - MAKE YOUR FRIENDS

AND NEIGHBORS AWARE TO HELP GET OUT A RESOUNDING VOICE OF THE PEOPLE!
Remember - "The only way evil can prevail is that good people do nothing."

FOR U. S. SENATE - REELECT

INCQMBENT SENAEQR JOHN VL—IQEE§X~ Following is the "humane quotient"

of Senator John V. Tunney, in a

FOR ' letter to HUMANE CIVIC ASSOCIATION;
the People — ‘ in addition to his statement, we
have- implementation of his work
FOR A in a letter: "As a member of the
the Animals Senate Commerce Committee, I have
FOR taken an active role in relation to
Effective, implementation of the Endangered

Progressive

Species Act and the Mammal Protect-

RepreSentatiOE ion Act. In this capacity I have
FOR developed a keen awareness of the
CALIFORNIA AND vital informational function that is
OUR AMERICAN performed by groups such as the

PRINCIPLES” Humane Civic Association."

It is significant that The Los Angeles
Times, in its lead editorial, Wednesday
morning, October 13, 1976, entitled
"FOr Responsibility in the Senate",
departed from its usual policy not

to endorse candidates for President,
for Governor, or for U. S. Senate,
"unless exceptional circumstances
exist"— and strongly urged return

of Senator John V. Tunney to the
important office of U. S. Senator

"to best serve the interests of .
this state." The Times cites Tunney's
record as "an effective advocate for
California through three terms in the
House of Representatives and one in.
the Senate; most effective author of all
present first term senators — 33 of his
bills, resolutions and amendments have
been signed into law, covering a broad
range of both foreign and domestic
affairs - one of the hardest working
senators in carrying out his committee
assignments — and his rise to positions
of greater authority in the Senate>
assures California of increasing influence
in Washington."

The Times editorial voices concern about
lack of qualifications of Dr. S. I.
Hayakawa, with all due respect to his
academic and other attainments as a
~semanticist. "But-his single claim

to political recognition dates from

'his confrontation with student dis—
senters when he was president of San
Francisco State University; in 1968."

GO TO THE POLLS ON NOVEMBER 2nd -
VOTE FogggOHN V. TUNNEY

The protection and welfare of domes-
ticated and wild animals has been among _
my top priorities during my six years in
the House of Representatives and my first
term in the Senate.

1 am most proud of fighting to end the. g _»
cruel practice known as horseﬂ“soring,”
which has passed the Senate. Ihave also
fought to require stricter controls on pets
shipped on planes, to restrict importation
of “exotic pets” and endangered species,
to end the use of the steel jaw trap, tO
oppose predator control legislation and to
protect the Tule Elk in California.

Many of these fights were tough and
we haven’t won them all. But with the
help of humane citizens around the coun~
try, we have made progress. With your
help and guidance, mynext term in the
Senate can prove even more successful in
those areas about which you are con-
cerned.

Thank you for this Opportunity to
express my views.

* * * ‘k ‘k * * *
e~:,;.‘ Nix";

In contrast,

exact quotes
from the L.A.
Times, Sept.
15, and in
October TIME
Magazine

"I don't give a goOd goddamn
about.greyhounds, one way or
another. I can't think of any-
thing that interests me less."

This in response to a questioner
in his audience who wanted to
know the candidate's position on
Proposition 13 to legalize dog
racing gambling in California.
Similar frequent responses to

 




Page Two

questions on other issues of major
importance are "I don‘t know...

Am I supposed to know?" - or he
might quip to his audience, when a
question on an issue comes up for
which he has no answer, "Can I go
home now?"

HCA agrees with the conclusion in

the Los Angeles Times editorial:

"A mischievous wit and a flair for the
outrageous may appeal to those who are
looking for nothing more than unortho-
doxy in a politician,but they are not
qualifications for service in the

U. S. Senate."

Hayakawa sports a campaign button
which reads: "Sayonara Tunney".

If Dr. Hayakawa does not "give a

good goddamn about greyhounds"

and the exploitation of and

cruelties inherent in dog racing,

to the animals, he apparently also
does not share the concern of high
public officials about resultant
crime and corruption and the lowering
of the quality of life in our state
if greyhound racing gambling is
legalized. Hayakawa vacillates, too,’
as evidenced by his signed statement
published in HCA's HUMANE CITIZEN
newspaper, Special Primary Edition,
May 1976, wherein he stated: "I
believe there is no excuse, whatso-
ever,for cruelty to animals, whether
by design or neglect..."

This beautiful Japanese word for "Goodbye" in this important election sounds
much better this way: SAYONARA, HAYAKAWA.

'k*****************‘k******************

, VOTE NO

"Dogs trained on the
taste of blood are
essential for good
racers at the track."

DOG RACING - INDELIBLY

ETCHED IN BLOOD AND
GREED ;

CORRUPTION AND CRIME

Terrified rabbits are confined in a fenced area, finally ripped apart by

the fastest dogs.

Such training also often includes "lures" of live

kittens, puppies, chickens and other small animals such as guinea pigs,
“which really raise a noise so on a moving lure they are sounding off

and are a safe, tasty morsel of one big chewing..."

Rabbits, lashed by

hind legs to a fast-moving truck, dangle just above the ground, while
eager greyhounds race over and over again until finally the mangled

rabbit is torn to pieces.

Thomas Crawford, kennel owner of 250 greyhounds

in Florida (a "hot spot" of gambling interests) told the St. Petersburg
Evening Independent newspaper: "Should training with rabbits be outlawed,
the dog track industry would fall apart.”

Only a small percentage of the thousands bred ever make the track:
greyhound puppies, unqualified to compete, older dogs no longer able

to run fast enough, dogs that do not win, are ruthlessly killed, abandon—
ed, or turned over to medical research by their own breeders and trainers.
Paramutued.dog racing in California would mean a dramatic increase in
numbers of dogs bred to be exploited for greed and profit.

Article 10, Sec. 19794 of Proposition 13 reads: "It shall be unlawful
for any person to race or train any registered racing greyhound within

this state using live animals as lures.

It shall be unlawful for any

person to race any registered racing greyhound within this state that-
has knowingly been trained using live animals as lures." (Emphasis ours).
Loopholes, Impossibility of enforcement and policing are so obvious, it

insults the intelligence.

No certification that dogs have not been

trained on live lures is required from racing dog owners out-of-state.
Coursing, a similar procedure for dog training, is not outlawed.

Governor Jerry Brown and Attorney General Evelle Younger have called on
voters to reject Prop. 13, noting that the initiative is vigorously

opposed by every law enforcement agency in California.

L. A, District

Attorney John Van de Kamp terms it a "major rip-off" - L. A. City Attorney
Burt Pines stresses that it will open up a billion $ gambling business,
enrich only its promoters, at the expense of taxpayers, an open invita-

tion to organized crime and corruption.

Statewide, newspaper and radio, all

media,have editorialized against Prop. 13, urging a N0 vote.
ON NOVEMBER 2, PROMOTERS AND PROPONENTS OF PROP. 13 WILL GO TO THE POLLS

IN FULL FORCE TO VOTE YES.

ONLY IF YOU GET OUT TO VOTE NO AND ENLIST

OTHERS IQ VOTE WILL PROPOSITION l§_§§ SOUNDLY DEFEATED. .—

 

 

Vole NO on

13

 

 

 

 




Page Three
LEGISLATIVE REPORT

City of Los Angeles

On September 20, in Los Angeles City Council Chambers, the Public Health,
Welfare and Environment Committee held a special meeting and public
hearing - Subject: Council File 76-1600, 3-9, Animal Breeder's License.

Section 53.15.2, Los Angeles Municipal Code, which became effective

July 1, 1976, requires that any peron who breeds a dog or cat for
commercial purposes or for the purpose of show or for improving breed
quality or temperament shall pay an annual $25.00 license tax for the
privilege of engaging in such activity. (This first step and nominal
charge, to help control surplus animal breeding, continues to be fought
by the California Coalition of Animal Owners which has filed suit against
the City, the Department, and others).

At the September 20 hearing, the PHW&E Committee reviewed and opened
discussion on the further implementation and recommendations submitted
by Robert I. Rush, General Manager, Dept. of Animal Regulation, the
Animal Regulation Commission, and the five-member Committeeto Study_
Animal Ordinances (of which latter committee Marjorie McIntyre, repre-
sentative for Humane Civic Association,is a member). Recommendations
in the reports represented more than a year study, following many dis-
cussions and several public meetings, including with "hobby" breeders.

During the four-hour-long Sept. 20 hearing, PHW&E Committee - Robert
Farrell, Chairman, David Cunningham and Marvin Braude — evinced keen
concern, awareness and understanding of the breeding control problem,
listening carefully, questioning and commenting to the many speakers

pro or con "hobby" breeding in the 8 points of the guidelines, before
their committee's final vote. Humane organization representatives -
including California HumaneCouncil, Humane Civic Association, Mercy
Crusade, Pet Assistance Foundation and others _ spoke eloquently in favor
of a sound, equitable and enforceable ordinance in best interests of the
responsible hobby breeder and goals to further control of surplus dog‘
and cat breeding, to which,demonstrably, "hobby" breeders and commercial
interests contribute. Some of the many speakers (breeders, kennel opera-
tors, etc.) obviously wanted no legal control whatsoever on their acti-
vities; other responsible breeders spoke in favor of a fair ordinance.

Recommendations of the PHW&E Committee have been submitted to full City
Council. Hearing has not yet been scheduled. Humane Civic Association
has written each member of the PHW&E Committee to thank for their
conscientious work and vote for another forward step in animal care and
control, always instituted and soundly supported by, in cooperation with
organizations who seek to close the loopholes in control of the animal
population, its cost in animal suffering and to the taxpayer - our
great Robert I. Rush, General Manager Department of Animal Regulation.
Please write your own City Councilman; ask his support for passage of
the Public Health & Welfare Committee's recommendations for "hobby
breeding" control, and request information for date of hearing. ATTEND,
if possible.....but at least 'phone or write your city councilman.

************

While, nationwide, we work cooperatively to STOP the skyrocketing pet
population explosion, including breeding of "purebreds" which add to the
tragic, costly problem, it has been real CUTESY news that the White House
dog, Liberty, was bred and produced a big litter of puppies--natura11y
handed out to everyone who wanted a White House prestige puppy (to go on
breeding more). Surely, the President of the United States is aware of
the-example set to encourage more pitiful surplus pet breeding?’ Or is
President Ford indifferent to the integral responsibility for the so-
called lower animals, domestic or wild, with which we share this earth?
Let's Remember that President Gerald Ford gifted Breshnevwith a wolf skin
coat (wolf an endangered species) on his visit to Russia. League of
Conservation Voters and other environment leaders have hit President Ford's
record on issues ranging from parks to clean air as one of "hostility and
indifference." LCV assails President Ford for veto of many important

.legislative bills for wildlife and environment protection.

California League of Conservation Voters (LCV) has endorsed Jimmy Carter
for President, citing his strong record for environmental protection while
Governor of Georgia. LCV also endorses Senator J6hn.V. Tunney for re-
election to the U. 5. Senate, based on Tunney's outstanding record for
work and support on environmental issues to conserve and preserve our
priceless heritage and the future quality of life in California.

************

 




Page Four
CALIFORNIA LEGISLAIIQE

1976 WAS THE YEAR OF THE SINGLE VOTE in Sacramento - the single vote by
which good bills died or survived in committees or on the floor. The POWER
OF ONE was never so clearly demonstrated; YOUR one vote at the polls on
November 2 can decide the difference between election of concerned humane
and integral environment preservationists in the Legislature and candidates
who, by their voting record, are "on the other side". UNITE - and VOTE!

SB 778 (Senator David A. Roberti) - To prohibit abuse and killing of animals
for purposes of "entertainment" in TV or movie films. Permits use of animals
in film portrayals, except such portrayals would require simulation, not
actual animal cruelty and death. SB 778 passed Senate Judiciary Committee
and full Senate; it was defeated by a 5 to 6 vote in Assembly Judiciary
Committee on August 10, 1976 - remember the following voting record!

FOR Assembly District AGAINST Assemblnyistrict

Robert G. Beverly Slst John Miller 13th
Fred W. Chel 58th Frank Murphy, Jr. 28th
Art Torres 1 56th Ken Maddy 30th
’ Bob Wilson ' 77th Paul T. Bannai 53rd
Bill McVittie. 65th Walter M. Ingalls 68th

Robert E. Badham 74th

SB 831 (Senator Anthony C. Beilenson) - Adds elephants to endangered species
list, outlaws importing of products of - Passed into law - Chapter 692

SB- 1096 (Senator Donald Grunsky) - Requires retail dealers, as defined by
law in Rev. and Taxation Code 6066, to provide buyer with complete health
record 0f dog or cat. Requires retail dealer to pick up shipments of dogs
or cats within six hours of notification of arrival by common carrier -
$250 fine for violation. Adds Sec. 597x é regulation of nitrogen chambers
by Dept. of Weights and Measures. On Governor's desk for signature.

SB 1115 (Senator John W, Holmdahl) - Animal Control must issue citation

not arbitrarily impound dog if it has strayed from owner's property and dog
then returned unless owner not at home. If owner not home, can impound

the animal. Signed by Governor. '

SB 1504 (Senator John Dunlap) - Extends moratorium on killing of mountain
lion, and study, to January 1, 1978. Passed, signed by Governor.

SB 1886 (Senator Alan Robbins)- Provides that a licensed veterinarian
cannot have his license revoked for participating in low-cost spay/neuter
program. Strongly opposed by the Calif. Vet-Med Association, bill is dead.

SB 1899 (Senator Peter H. Behr) - Exhibitors and dealers can only sell or
transfer to individuals or organizations that already have a permit to
keep wild animals. Passed — for Governor' 3 Signature.

SB 2077 (Senator Howard Way) - Would put the little California burros

under Fish & Game Department. Died. For more than 15 years we have fought
making the burro a game animal - and will continue to fight in every session
of the State Legislature, with the help of Senator Walter Stiern and other
aware, powerful legislators, concerned for protection of this brave native
animal, which has suffered so much abuse and exploitation, over the years.
In the 1976 session, vested interests failed again-~let's keep it that way.
so the burro survives on meagre forage,as it does, peacefully, at least.

STATE ASSEMBLY BILLS

AB 2023 (Assemblyman Daniel Boatwright) -Edonomic Poisons Control.
Passed. Vetoed by Governor.

 

AB 2131 (Assemblyman Ken MacDonald) - Marine Mammals - changes law so Fish
& Game can' t shoot marine mammals — unlawful to kill any except in accord-
ance with Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972. Passed — Law - Chapter 786

AB 2661 (Assemblyman Paul B. Carpenter) - Prohibits any person from trans-
porting or leaving any animal in any vehicle in a manner so that the animal
can escape, be thrown out of Vehicle or escape to the roadway. This import-
ant legislation died in this session of the Legislature: To protect against
this hazard, for the animal, for the people, let's bring it back in 1977.

AB 3012 (Assemblmen Terry Goggin and Bill McVittie) - Amends Animal Health
Technicians on AHT Committee, replaces one vet with public member, deletes
two year curriculum requirement, substitutes graduation frOm institution
approved by AHT Board, adds provision person has to be of good moral
character. This good bill was defeated — dead.

(Report continued next page........ The above constitute only a few of the
most important bills introduced in the 1976 session of the California
Legislature, and their outcome, pertaining to animal welfare - and are
significant in determining which legislators are concerned with introduction
and support of legislation, toyprotect animals (domestic or wild) in best
interests of the people and the creatures with whom we share this earth.)

 




Page.Five

GREAT NEWS 2

VICTORY AT LAST

 

habitat for at least 2000 Tule Elk in California.

over many years,

State and Federal laws have been enacted recently to insure
The tenacious crusade,
to save this beautiful wildlife species, has been led by

Beula Edmiston, Committee for the Preservation of the Tule Elk, with un-
remitting. hard work and courage against all odds - vested interests,P01i-

tical powers ,

selfish opponents.

While Beula says that "all who had a part

in this great crusade should share the pride of noble achievement" to save
a precious heritage for the lasting benefit of all creatures with whom we
Share this earth, in a remarkable precedent and victory ~ CHEERS! é;so,to
a magnificent, remarkable crusader and her supportive husband and family.
Again, it demonstrates the POWER OF ONE, who leads, and never gives up.
May we all be inspired to work together for further goals, without ceasing.
Senators Alan Cranston and John V. Tunney are credited with immeasurable

help in passage of legislation for preservation and protection of

105 Engines ﬁlmw‘ The Cry in the Dark . Oct. 14,1976—I’t II

BY VIRGINIA COLLINS

The time was about 5:30 on atotallyedark
'and starless morning. At that early hour a
country road is empty, lonely-:notat all the
friendly, airy place it will become in daylight.
As I took my regular morning run of several
miles, I sensed the separation between people
whoget up in darkness and those still in their
beds. 1 ran in a deep silence, broken only by
the sound of my own feet on the road. Until-

Suddenly I heard a loud, agonizing cry. I
couldn’t see anything in the dark, but I knew
instantly it was a kitten. The sound it made
was almost human, or maybe it’s just that the,
cry of hunger and fear is universally under;
stood by all earth’s creatures.

' Now the kitten was at my heels, grabbing at
my ankle. It must have been hiding in the
ditch andsomehow recognized me as a poten-
tial savior. I stopped and tried to pick it up,
but the kitten fought for its freedom. That was

.fine by me: I didn’twanta‘lost kitten. I didn’t

'“THE TOLUCAN

For ’N Feathers

By VIRGINIA 'TRENDALL

want to be responsible for one more discarded
animal that had been left to die.

Over the past. two years of'running these
roads, I’d already come upon three half -.
starved dogs and managed to find them good
homes. But a kitten—who would want a pitiful
kitten? -

It was tiny, thin; two of its paws were raw.
Though the kitten refused to be held, it kept

Virginia Collins lives in Santa Maria, south-
east of SanALuis Obispo.

 

_ Wednesday, September 1, 1976

running after me, wailing all the while. It
seemed impossible for such a small creature to
make such a piercing noise.

My run was ruined. Again I picked up the
kitten and reluctantly started for home. But in
its fright it kept struggling to get loose, and
after a half mile I gave up, bitten and
scratched. I put the kitten down in a clump of
weeds and tried to explain I’d be backLnot

‘ 7

ﬂ

really meaning it. For 100 yards it ran after '
me, crying its too—human protest. Then—
thank God—I could hear it no longer.

But 'once home, I couldn’t get the kitten out
of my mind or, rather, my ears. Its plea'for
help wouldn’t go away and, without really
thinking, I got in my car and drove back to
that spot along the road where I’d left it. In a
few moments I found the kitten again, hud-
dled dejectedly in a tiny ball.

As I put it on the front seat. I remembered
an old Chinese saying that if you save a man's
life, you’re responsible for him afterward. I
still didn’t want a cat, but now the important
thing was to fill it with warm milk and then to
figure out how far my responsibility extended. .

That was three weeks ago. Now the kitten
is twice as big. Smart and sassy, it's part of the
family and meows at my feet when I return
from my early-morning runs. But what about
the next kitten I find, and the puppy after
that? The unwanted of this world seem so hel-

pless when they cry in the dark.

_z_t__1_‘.L OVER THE WORLD THE ANIMALS ARE

 

CRYING - ARE YOU LISTENING?

 

Kittens, Puppies, dogs and cats born
to cruel abandonment, untold suffering,
- the fate of the skyrocketing surplus
dogs and cats born only to suffer and

die,

including in tax-supported public

animal shelter death chambers. Exploited
and plentifully expendable also in
unmerciful so—called "scientific ex-
perimentation” in labs paid for by your
tax dollars, lining the pockets of the
"researchers", over and over again.

STOP THI_13_ NIGHTMARE. OF ANIMAL §UFFERINC5°

 

Support and—work for the organizational
and municipal spay/neuter programs.
****‘k ******* *‘k'k'k

Perverse, degrading experiments are forced on the

the Tule Elk.

suffering, terrified creatures. The male organs are out
Some are put on racks and subjected to "terminal
electro-physical stimulation."

Ihis insanity has been funded from 1961 through
1977 (unbelievably) by the NATIONAL INST. OF CHILD
HEALTH & HUMAN DEVELOPMENT (a division of the
US. DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH, EDUCATION &
WELFAREIII). An additional pay off to ”student
assistants” by the NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION!
The experiments will prove whether deformed animals
can retain the sex urge!

You can help -— you must help, if you hope for
mercy. Write the A.M.N.H. — 79th Street and Central
Park Avenue, West, New York, NY. 10024. Another
letter to the Board of Trustees. If you are a member,

_QUIT and tell them WHY! Write your senator in
Washington and ask that all grants be. cancelled.

Monsters Unmasked

The American Museum of Natural History since its
beginning in 1869‘ has been a respected, honored
institution — oh? We wonder how many of its 107
years it has deserved that place on the American
scene. .

We hear’from several authenticated sources that for

YEARS the A.M.N.H. has been committing the most
horrendous crimes against helpless, terrified animals.
It is supported (without their consent) by the tax-
payers. ‘ . ' .
READ: Cats are deliberately blinded —- deafened by
destruction of the inner ear — the olfactory bulbs in
their brain are cut, depriving them of the sense of
smell —— the “rage” center of their brain is incised
making them difficult to handle. Then they are put in
.SMALL cages that hold them immovable.

'WRITE TO
YOUR OWN
~'CONGRESS--

MAN -
House of
Represent-
atives,
Washington
D.C.

Protest
federal
grants
of,YOUR
tax money
in insane
CRUELTY:

Above is an excerpt from a Weekly column.
Virginia is a Humane Civic Association
Advisory Board Member.

 




Page Six
HUMANE CIVIC ASSOCIATION 1976 General Election Endorsements -VOTE on Nov. 2
for Humane Candidates - Best for the Animals AND the People!
U, S. Senate: JOHN TUNNEY
House of Representatives
District - for Congress U. S.
2nd. OSCAR KLEE

California State AssemblY

4th

5th

6th

7th

8th

9th
10th
11th
13th
16th
17th
18th
21st
22nd
23rd
24th
25th
27th
28th
29th

30th,

32nd
33rd
36th
37th

39th-

40th

TED SHEEDY

JOHN BURTON
PHILLIP BURTON
GEORGE MILLER

RON DELLUMS
FORTNEY STARK

DON EDWARDS

LEO RYAN

NORMAN MINETTA
LEON PANETTA

JOHN KREBS

DEAN CLOSE

JAMES C. CORMAN
CARLOS J. MOORHEAD
ANTHONY C. BEILENSON
HENRY A. WAXMAN
EDWARD R. ROYBAL.

'GARY FAMILIAN

YVONNE BRATHWAITE BURKE
AUGUSTUS F. "GUS" HAWKINS
GEORGE E. DANIELSON ’
GLENN M. ANDERSON

DEL CLAWSON

GEORGE BROWN
SHIRLEY-PETTIS,

BILL FERRIS

VIVIAN HALL

California_State Senate

3rd

9th
13th
17th
19th
let
23rd
27th
Blst

ALBERT RODDA

NICHOLAS PETRIS

JOHN GARAMENDI.

PHIL HARRY  ‘

SABRINA SCHILLER

NEWTON R. "NEWT" RUSSELL
DAVID A. ROBERTI

ROBERT G. BEVERLY

RENEE SIMON

***********

District

3rd
4th
5th
8th
9th
12th
13th
15th
18th
let
22nd
23rd

.24th

28th
35th
36th
37th
38th
39th
40th
4lst
43rd
44th
45th
46th

’ 47th

53rd

54th.
55th'
56thf"

57th

58th ' .
65th ~‘

66th
68th
70th

73rd.

77th
78th

GEORGE SHAW
VICTOR FAZIO
GENE GUALCO
MIKE GAGE
MICHAEL WORNUM
TOM BATES

JOHN MILLER
FLOYD MORI

LEO MCCARTHY
VICTOR CALVO
DICK HAYDEN
JOHN VASCONCELLOS
LEONA EGELAND
HENRY MELLO
GARY HART

JANE TOLMACH
ARLINE MATHEWS

‘PAUL PRIOIO

JIM KEYSOR
TOM BANE

MIKE D. ANTONOVICH
HOWARD L. BERMAN
ALAN SIEROTY
HERSCHEL ROSENTHAL
CHARLES WARREN
TERESA HUGHES
CINDY WEAR
FRANK.VICENCIA
RICHARD ALATORRE
ART TORRES
MIKE.CULLEN

FRED w. CHEL

BILL McVITTIE
TERRY GOGGIN

WALT INGALLS
BRUCE NESTANDE
DENNIS MANGERS
TIMOTHY COHELAN
LAWRENCE KAPILOFF

The basic function of HUMANE CIVIC ASSOCIATION is the "grass roots"
organization of political support for selected candidates for public office

who are declared friends of animals. Its unique, sole object is to develop
maximum political efficiency within the humane community by education,
organization and legislative guidance. Better humane politics is the ultimate
key to lgsting animal protection, added to our individual humane work.

In terms of animal welfare, such revitalization of the American humane move-
ment can at last bring about legal and legislative successes that have proved
'unattainable for the past hundred years. YOUR support is needed. Annual dues
$10.00. Junior (under 18), students and seniOr citizens $3.00. All officers
are unsalaried. NOTE: Donations are not tax exempt, not deductible, since
HUMANE CIVIC ASSOCIATION is a political arm of the humane advancement.

my - _
Wag; HUMANE CIVIC A ASSOCIATION

Post Office Box 39534, Los Angeles, California 90039

Non-Partisan Political Support for Friends Of Animals

YES! I AGREE! Better political organization should be among the primary Obiectives of all intelligently
dedicated friends of animals, regardless of organization affiliation or political party registration. Here is
my check (or money order) to help support and promote the RIGHTS OF ANIMALS for mercy and justice
through legislators and laws.

NAME

 

ADDRESS

 

CITY STATE

 

 

TELEPHONE OCCUPATION

_____________________________________________________ .J
PLEASE PASS THIS NEWSLETTER ON TO OTHERS' - VOTE ON #NOVEMBER 2nd.

 

 

 

 

 

 




    
  
  
  
   
  
   
  
    
 
    
  
   
  
   
  
   
 
   
    

C LIFO NIA

ytnifeh ﬁfafees ﬁenafe

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

April 18, 1977

Mrs. Winifred J. Dushlind
Box #2
Moodacre, California 94973

Dear Mrs. Dushlind:

I was glad to hear from you with regard to the threat posed to porpoises
by tuna fishermen. I agree that we must control the senseless killing of por-
poises, but we are not going to solve this problem by keeping our fishermen home.

I have introduced an amendment to the Marine Mammal Protection Act that seeks
the answers to two problems. First of all, my amendment permits our tuna fishermen
to go back to work while technological research continues into new kinds of netting
and other equipment, which will mean the loss of few porpoises or, some day, none.
For example, I learned just recently of a 550-ton tuna catch in which only four por-
poises were lost. Secondly, my amendment addresses itself to the scientific re—
search needed so that we can understand, and learn to deal with the habits of por-
poises, such as why groups of porpoises and tuna are oft en seen swimming together.

From month to month American fishermen are improving their nets and improving
their fishing methods, so that the porpoise kill has dramatically diminished since
1972. My amendment has been referred to the Senate Commerce Committee, and I have
asked the Committee Chairman to take this bill up as a matter of top priority. I
testified before the Committee during hearings on March 9, and in addition I ques-
tioned witnesses who also testified.

The present Marine Mammal Protection Act. if fu11veen£onced,_will kill not
only the—Amer+ean—iuna*industry, it will ki l off the porpning gingg fang4gr:
T1snermen, not bound by American law, will fish as they please without regard to V
pUFp5TEE_m6FtETTtYT‘"TﬁE‘§YEmETE_ET'American fishermen gathering tuna while killing
few or no porpoises will provide an example that fOreign fishermen will learn to
follow.

 

 

 

For your information, I am enclosing a copy of the statement I made on the
Senate floor with regard to this issue. Thank you for writing.

       

 
 

Sincerely yours,

sasksm

 
 

SIHzmgp
Enclosure




C 'THE OBSERVE}

"—1 .

was professor
is hitting Tunney

mm CHARLES FOLEY insan

ALL EYES in California
will be ﬁxed this week on a
bizarre US Senate contest
which may swing this cru-
cial State’s 45 electoral
votes—~the largest total in
the nation -—- into either
the Ford or Carter camp,
tipping the balance in a
close Presidential race.

The duel is between two
oddly matched ﬁgures: Demo-
crat incumbent John Tunney,
42, liberal son of the former
world heavyweight champion,
and Prof. S. I. Hayakawa, 70,
of Japanese descent, whose
tam.—o’~shanter trademark re-
calls a childhood, spent in a
Scottish enclave of Canada.

Senator Tunney began with
all the advantages : he posses-
ses a magical name, was a
college room-mate of Sen.
Edward Kennedy, sponsored
38 Senate Bills that have be-
come law, and was the prime
mover in wrecking Dr
Kissing‘er’s plans to aid the
losing side in Angola.

Dr Hayakawa, with a career
insemantics and no political
experience, seemed a non-
starter. Yet the. stocky, ~5 ft
Zin. Republican challenger
was tied by the pollsters last
week in a dead-heat with his
opponent, 43 per cent to 43
per cent, the rest undecided.
He says his success is due to
voters’ hunger for a new face
with no Washington connec-
tions. Issues ? ‘ I’m a political
Rorschach [ink blots] test.
People see what they want to
in me.’ -

What most appear to see is
a mirror of their reaction
against the permissive sixties.
Some pundits attribute Dr
Hayakawa.’s rise to a national
return to conservatism and
traditional values. The key-
stones of his campaign have
been support for the ‘ Ameri-
can family,’ a strong defence,
and a benevolent neutrality
for the underdog. Or, as
Tunney prefers to put it, ‘ an
escape from reality.’

The professor captured
true-blue American hearts in
1968, when-mnewly appointed
by Governor Ronald Reagan
as head of San Francisco
State, University at the
height of student unrest—he
leaped aboard a rebel student
sound-truck on campus and
pulled the plug on the loud-
speakers, Network TV made
him an, instant celebrity.

‘ Communication’s my busi-
ness,’ he says, recalling that
his ‘ book, ‘Language in
Thought and Action ’ became
a 1941 best-seller. The ideas
he communicates today 81’
traditional indeed. He gave
as his reason for wanting to
ease minimum wage and. child
labour laws the need to put
young people to work, ‘so
that they won’t have to hold
up liquor stores and. get preg-
nant just to prove they’re
grown up.’

And he Went on to tell
California’s Japanese-Ameri-

cans that the internment _of‘
110,000 of their community

after Pearl Harbour was the

Francisco

best thing that could have

happened. ‘It forced them
out of their segregated life
here and spread them
around the country.’

Touring the State in a
huge ‘motorhome’ dubbed
The Whale,‘he faced unfor-
giving hecklers at his old
college here and earned a
demonstration which, he
crowed, would again rem-ind

‘voters of his victory over

Student disorder.

In two TV debates,
Tunney kept his guard high,
while Hayakawa swung
wildly. He advocated sending
US troops to Africa and
promised to encourage insur-
rections in Hungary, Poland,
Latvia and Tibet against the
Communist tyranny. Welfare,
health spending and job pro-
grammes were simply wast-
ing money. Asked earlier on.
whether the US should keep
the Panama Canal, he re-
plied: ‘Why not, we stole it
fair and square.’

A worried Tunney, court~
ing gay liberationists for the
ﬁrst time, assured a gay
rally last week, ‘I support
equal liberties and rights for
you all.’ Hayakawa ,(‘I’m
mature enough not to suc-
cumb to every fad which
comes along.’) sniffed, ‘I’m
deeply prejudiced against
homosexuals, and shall vote
against them in the Senate.’

As for his age—a moot
point of Tunney’s —- he
observes that his father lived
to 91, his mother is alive and

 

 

 

John Tunney:
‘ Magical name.’

(I ‘.'

' Prof. S. l. Hayakawa:
‘ Traditional values.’

well at 9;, and his spare-time
pursunzsginclude fencmg and
tap-dancing.

Together, the candidates
have spent nearly £1 million.
Hayakawa’s backers include
oil companies, the gun lobby, I
‘agribusiness,’ and billion-
aires like W. Clement Stone,
a. former Nixon champion.
Tunney’s largest contribu-
tion, £150,000, was raised at
a concert starring Frank
Sinatra, Diana Ross and other
showbiz supporters.

Mark Frankland : Page ,13

 

m u_._._,‘,___. . ,_. _. .__..—-—-— A

v
u

_H

 




ungrrssiunai “Record

PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATESO OF THE 95th CONGRESS FIRST SESSION

United States
qumamm

 

 

WASHINGTON, THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1977 No. '25.

Vol. 123

S mate

THURSDAY; FEBRUARY 10, 1977

THE CALIFORNIA TUNA FISHING
INDUSTRY

Mr. HAYAKAWA. Mr. President, I
wish to say something about the tuna:
ﬁshing industry in California.

Mr. President, the California tuna ﬁsh-
ing industry has been in great jeopardy
for some time—and is threatened now
with what could be the death blow.

The US. Court of Appeals in the Dis-

trict of Columbia ruled last Thursday
night to continue severe restraints ‘

against the incidental taking of por-
poises by U. S. tuna ﬁshermen. This rul-
ing was taken against the American
Tunaboat Association, and it virtually

puts our tuna ﬁshermen out of business. '

It is a strange but unfortunate fact
that modern methods of tuna ﬁshing
cause porpoises to be accidentally en-
snared in nets and killed. And it is un-
derstandable that in 1972, in response
to ti re concerns of conservatiomsts and
others, the Congress passed the Marine
Mammal Protection Act.
act was well intentioned, it has not suc-
ceeded in its purpose.

The act did not foresee the enormous
economic burden it has placed upon
American tuna ﬁshermen. Nor did it con-
sider the fact that foreign tuna ﬁsher-
men, not bound by Our laws, are still tak-
ing porpoises. What we have, then, is a
situation unsatisfactory to the conserva--
tionists’ purpose and an economic
calamity for U. S. tuna ﬁshermon.

Let me emphasize that the Marine

Mammal Protection Act will save por-
poises only from tuna boats that ﬂy the
American flag. Boa-ts under other ﬂags
.wIll continue to ﬁsh freely, by any
,method they choose, and without regard
to the porpoise population. . .

. . We are not going to solve this problem
by keeping our ﬁshermen home. ,

”I have introduced an amendment to
loosen the present restrictions and to
' provide the time and money to solve this
problem.

Essentially, my amendment seeks the
answers to two problems. First of all, it
permits our tuna ﬁshermen to go back to
work while technological research con—'4
muss” into new kinds of netting and
father equipment Which will mean the loss
of only a miniInal——and perhaps 1 day
zero—mumber of porpoises. And progress
is being Inade. For example, I learned
just recently of a 550- -ton tuna catch in

While this -

which only four porpoises were lost
2 I stIess that our ﬁshermen are as

I ideeply concerned as we all are in pursu-

ging their livelihood in a manner which
Qwill not endanger these wise and friendly
'creatures Of the sea. It is a fact that the
presence of ”porpoises swimming about
the surface“ is an alert to ﬁshermen of
schools of yellowﬁn and other tuna be-
low. Obviously, the loss of porpoises
would mean losses to the tuna catch.

Second, my amendment addresses it—
self to the scientiﬁc research needed so
that we can understand, and learn to
deal with, the habits of porpoises. We
simply do not know why tuna and por—
poises swim around together. We have

‘ only recently learned that many netted

porpoises thought to be dead were only
playing dead by ﬂipping over on then
backs.

Much needs to be learned about 1301‘-
poises before we have a solution

From month to month American ﬁsh.-

‘ermen are improving their nets and im-

proving their ﬁshing methods so that the

, porpoise kill has been dramatically di-

minished since 1972 when'the legislation
was enacted. _

My amendment has been referred to
the Senate Commerce Committee for
consideration. Because of its urgency, I

.. am asking the chairman of that commit-

tee to take it up as a top prioriwty _
One tuna ﬁsherman was quoted in the

. newspaper over the weekend as saying,
' “All we are asking for is the time.” My

amendment would provide that time, and
putit to good purpose.
I thank.~ the Chair.

"OVGT-

 




January 19, 1977',

.-

By Mr. HAYAKAWA: ‘

S. 373. A .bill to amendthe Marine
Mammal Protection Act of 1972 in con-
nection with the incidental taking of
marine mammals with commercial ﬁsh-
ing; to the Committee on Commerce.

Mr. HAYAKAWA. Mr. President, I am'

intrOducing today a bill to amend the
Marine Mammal ProtectiOn Act of 1972
in connection with the incidental taking
of marine mammals with commercial
ﬁshing. One exception to the moratorium
on the taking of all marine mammals,
imposed by the Marine Mammal Protec-
tion Act of 1972, permits such taking
when incidental to commercial ﬁshing.
Incidental taking is subject to a‘ permit
program governed by regulations of the
Secretary of Commerce. "

The incidental taking provisions of the
act have had a serious impact on the tuna
ﬁshing industry. Most tuna caught by
the US. tuna ﬁshing industry are taken
by encircling schools of porpoise with
large purse seines. For reasons not un-
derstood, yellowﬁn tuna swim beneath
the porpoise schools. After the porpoise
are released from the net, the tuna are
harvested. Most porpoise swim safely
free, but a substantial number each year
are caught in the nets and drowned. As
an immediate goal, the act requires'that
such incidental taking be reduced to near
zero and prohibits any ﬁshing on por—
poise populations ‘which are below the
Optimum sustainable level.

In the latter case, the act permits no
ﬂexibility; all ﬁshing must immediately
cease. Enforcement of current regula—
tions is hampered by lack of clear au-
thority to place observers aboard tuna
, vessels, ”particulaily when the vessel has
'nOt declared its intentiOn to ﬁsh on
porpoise and consequently is 'not re-
quired to carry a permit.

As a result of these requirements, even

though substantial progress has been

made by the industry, operating under
regulations of the Secretary of Com-
merce and as a result of research spon-
scred by both the industry and the Fed-

eral Government, has made good progress
in reducing porpoise mortality. Legal
ﬁshing on porpoise by the U. S. ﬂeet has
come to a halt. The industry is prohibited
by order of the district court for the Dis-
trict of Columbia from ﬁshing on
porpoise. Even if this legal issue was dis-
posed of, it would be difﬁcult for the
Secretary to permit tuna ﬁshing on
porpoise and achieve the goal of a level
of porpoise mortality near zero.

The Secretary and many environ-
mental conservation organizations be-
lieve that the present situation is unsatg
isfaetory from every standpoint, includ-l
ing that of the porpoises themselves. The
prohibitions of the present law may
cause a number of the members of the
US. tuna ﬂeet to attempt to trans-fer to
foreign ﬂags or increase the market
share of foreignﬂeets, which would make
regulation of incidental killing difﬁcult
or impossible. Most parties familiar with
the problem are convinced that the
progress in reduction of kill can be
signiﬁcantly improved under appropriate
regulations without causing extreme
injury to the U.S. tuna ﬁshing industry.

The following amendments are intro-
duced with the aim of remedying some
of the obvious shortcomings of the act.
They may not satisfy completely the in-
terests of the environmentalists nor those
of industry. I am, therefore, prepared to
examine carefully any improvement to
this bill which may be suggested in the
course of the hearings.

 




95TH CONGRESS . -
lST SESSION S 3 7 3
O

 

IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

“W‘s ‘ JANUARY 19, 1977

Mr IIAYAKAWAE introduced the following bill; which was read twice and
‘i referred to the Committee on Commerce

 

A BILL

To amend the Marine lllammal Protection Act of 1972 in con-
nection with the incidental taking of marine mammals with

commercial ﬁshing.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Represeatw
tives of the United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. Paragraph (2) of subsection (a) of. section
4 101 of the Marine llTaimnal Protection Act (86 Stat. 1030;

16 US01371 (a) (2) ) is amended to read as follows:
‘1‘ (2) Marine mammals may be taken incidentally
in the course of commercial ﬁshing operations: Provided,
That such taking conforms to those conditions and reg-
ulations which the Secretary is authorized and directed

“to impose pursuant to section 108 hereof to insure that

IT

 




 

.10

.11

13

1—]:

15

16

1’7

2
techniques and equipment are used which Will produce
the least practicable hazard to marine mammals in com—
111.01'3l2l ﬁshing operations. It shall be the goal of such
mmlitions and regulations that the incident kill and
incident serious injury of marine mammals permitted to
the course of commercial ﬁshing operations be reduced
to insigniﬁcant levels approaching zero mortality and
serious injury, the reduction to be carried out in signiﬁ-
cant annual increments Which the Secretary shall deter—
mine to be appropriate in light of the aforesaid tech-
niques and equipment currently available. No such kill or
injury shall be permitted that would reduce a species
or population stock of marine mammals below the level
of optimum sustainable population, or With respect to
any species or population stock Which is presently below
such level: Provided, That, if the Secretary shall deter—
mine, on the basis of the best scientiﬁc evidence avail—
able, and in consultation With the Marine Mammal Com-
mission, tha any species or population stock of marine
mammals is not more than 10 per centum below the
level of optimur‘n sustainable population, he may none—
theless prescribe regulations under this section to permit
incidental taking of such species or population stock at

a level which Wlll assure, on a basis of reasonable con-

ﬁdence, a Signiﬁcant annual increase in the size thereof.

 

 

 




 

 

 

OD

QUE-P

.q

l'
L

C900

10
11
12
18
14-.

H
01

16
1'7
18
19
2O
21
22
23
24
25

8

The Secretary of the 'llreasury, upon appropriate adricc
from the Secretary, shall ban the importation ol com—
mercial ﬁsh or products from ﬁsh which have been
caught with commercial ﬁshing technology which results
in the incidental kill or incidental serious injury of
marine mammals in excess of United States standards.
The Secretary shall insist on reasonable proof from the
government of any nation from which ﬁsh or ﬁsh
products will be exported to the United States of the
effects on marine mammals of the commercial. fishing
technology in use for such ﬁsh or ﬁsh products exported
from such nation to the United States”.

SEO. 2. Subparagraph (B) of paragraph (8) of sub-

section (a) of section 101 of the lilai'ine Mammal .l_"rotectio.n

(86 Stat. 1081; 16 USS. 1871(a) (8) (13)) is

ai‘nended, and a new sub paragraph (0) is added:

“(13) Except for scientiﬁc research purposes as
provided for in paragraph (1) of this subsection, dur—
ing the moratorium no permit may be issued for the
taking of any marine mammal which is classiﬁed as be-
longing to an endangered species or threatened species
pursuant to the Endangered Species Act of 1978, and
no“; importation may be made of any such mammal.

“(0) Except for scientiﬁc research purposes as

provided for in paragraph (1) of this subsection, or-

 




 

 

 

19
2O
21
22

23

4

except as authorized with respect to taking incidental

to commercial ﬁshing operations as provided for in para—

graph (2) of this subsection prior to December 31.,

1980, during the moratorium no permit may be issued

for the taking of any marine mammal which has been.

designated by the Secretary as depleted, and no 111113021"

tation may be made of any such mamn1al.”.

SEC. 3. Subsection (g) of section 104 (86 Stat. 1036;
16 USO. 1874 (g)) is amended to read as follows:

“ (g) The Secretary shall establish and charge a rea-
sonable fee for permits issued under this section. A fee
charged for permits issued with respect to the incidental
taking of marine mammals may recover all or part of the
cost of agents placed aboard such vessels under section 111
of this title, and may be set on a basis which will provide an
incentive to individual ﬁshing vessels and crews to reduce
the incidental taking of such mammals”.

SEC. 4. Subsection (d) of section 111 of the Marine
Mammal Protection Act (86 Stat. 1042; 16 U.S.C. 1381‘
(d) ) is amended to read as follows:

“ (d) Furthermore, if the Secretary shall determine that
a reasonable probability exists that a commercial ﬁshing ves-‘
sel on a regular ﬁshing trip will engage in the? incidental
taking of: marine mammals in the course of ﬁshing “pm-aﬂong,

whether or not a permit has been issued to said vessel under




10
11
12

13
14

15

5

this title with respect to said taking, duly authorized agents
of the Secretary are hereby empowered, after timely notice
to the owner of said vessel, to board and to accompany any
said vessel on such trip for the purpose of conducting re-
search, observing fishing operations, and monitoring for
compliance with regulations and permits issued hereunder.
Such research, observation, and monitoring shall be carried
out in such manner as to minimize interference with ﬁshing
operations. The Secretary shall provide for the cost of quar-
terng and maintaining such agents. N 0 master, operator, or
owner of such a vessel shall impair or in any way interfere
with the research, observation, and monitoring being carried
out by agents of the Secretary pursuant to this section.”.

SEC. 5. There are authorized to be appropriated for ﬁscal

year 197 7 $2,000,000 to carry out the purposes of this Act.

 




 

s, 3 7 3
A BILL

To amend the Marine Mammal Protection Act
of 1972 in connection with the incidental
taking of marine mammals with commercial

ﬁshing.

 

By Mr. HAYAKAWA

JANUARY 19, 1977

Read twice and referred to the Committee on
Commerce

 

 




)5.
S. I. HA {AKAWA_ COMMITTEES:
CALIFORNIA AGRICULTURE. NUTRITION.
AND FORESTRY

HU M AN RESOURCES

genifeh faiafez ﬁenaie BUDGET

WASHINGTON. D.C. 20510

GENE PRAT
ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT

December 1, 1977

Mr. and Mrs. Wm. S. Beamish, Jr.
5182 Dorman Drive
San Diego, Ca1ifornia 92115

Dear Mr. and Mrs. Beamish:

I was g1ad to receive your 1etter about H.R. 1464,
concerning the humane s1aughter of anima1s.

I have simi1ar fee1ings and beIieve that anima1s
shou1d be sIaughtered humaner. When H.R. 1464 comes
before the Senate, I wi11 certain1y support its passage.

Again, thank you for writing.

Sincerer,

“impr-
. a "V."
,-
.
«-.-;-,,*
\‘Q‘L
2-, .—~ w, , H a,

.«v

. ,f Hayakawa
1‘:

,2 a

g:

{If

SIH/bfk

 




        
         
    
   
 
 
         
       
 

   

S. l. HAYAKAWA COMMITTEES:

CALIFORNIA AGRICULTURE, NUTRITION.
AND FORESTRY

GENE PRAT HUMAN RESOURCES

ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT er (nifeb ﬁlafeﬁ $ena£c BUDGET

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

   

November 6, 1978

 

Mr. N. C. Sutherland
99S North Pacific E 10
Oceanside, California 92054

  

   
    
       
   
 
 

Dear Mr. Sutherland:

  
   
 
 

Thank you for your letter regarding S. 2899, to amend the
Endangered Species Act of 1973.

 
   
       
     
       
     
       
     
 
    
   
    
       
  
  
  

This measure would create an interagency committee,
consisting of seven members, to review federal activities which
come into irresolvable conflict with the Act. I supported this
amendment, which would empower the committee to grant exemptions
from the Act for some government construction projects. The law
would require affirmative votes from five of the seven committee
Hembers before a project could be exempted. Although I in no way
wanted to subvert the intentions of the existing legislation, I
believe that we need some flexibility in the law. The extreme
efforts to weaken the bill were no more successful than extreme
moves to strengthen it. The Conference Report on S. 2899 was
agreed to by both the House and Senate and was sent to the
President.

  

In addition, I introduced an amendment to the Endangered
Species Act providing for the management, conservation and
protection of endangered and threatened species of plants. The
amendment corrects an oversight in the 1973 Act which had
previously been interpreted to mean that Federal aid to states
for endangered Species applied only to fish and wildlife but not
to plants. My amendment passed the Senate by voice vote.

Again, thank you for writing.

Sincerely yOurs,

.30..

S. l. Hayakawa

 

SIH/ch

wfn/WN' » '

I, i ,_..,. . - V , )li 2", . N l l" / uwygfﬁﬁ’ﬁrf I
. ‘ // ,4/ I, /'A‘T ,V‘ .. / / i; / . / g 1’ v' ,l // V IW‘W‘VM, 1 'I If ; ~ /_ . 831:1 _"
”(Li/{i . <7 7:: ~' ' / ,. r, 42'“ ' 7:3 [é- (.4 - 4 5/ / [[1, , / «
\

 

_. ' . u- ,- x” [xi ~ 7 - J/gL—M
{Z 17.1575” Z n»! z. \ﬂd '''' ' Achg 47; m C JW 6

W'-

Le. {If {1/1. / ("3‘71 L,




SepteMber 11;

Mrs. Ginny Eby .m“ 1
C/O Sanator S. I. Hayakawa ;
Sanata Office Building ,’”
Washington, D. c. 26510

Daar Mrs. Eby:

One 0f our corraspandants informs us that senator Haydkawa is
concerned about the treatment of laboratory animals and is inter-
estad in what alternativas ara available or cauld'be developed.

There is a program undarway'by the National Institutes of Health.
which has issued a nuMber of canttacts to develop tasting methods'
using cell cultures Qr‘bacteria cultures. Ybu coulé dbtain
~£urthar infarmation on this program fram Dr.‘Virginia Dunkla,
Guardinator. In Vitro Carcinogenesis Program, DCCP. NCI.

If the Sanator is interested in encouraging the aeve10pment of

V altarnative mathoaa,‘he might wish to consider introducing a bill
in Eha Senate similar to that introduced in the House of Repre~
sentativea by Congressman Drinan. H. R.13707 "To promote the
aevelopment of methods of research. experimnntation, and testing
that minimize the use of, and pain and suffering to, live animals
A copy is enaloaed for your information.

If I can be of further assistance. please let ma know.

Sincerely,

Christine Stevens
Secratary

mm:
Enclosure

HCith Hﬁwarﬂ‘arwamwmmﬁ

 




. WA COMMITTEKﬁ:
S. i. HAYAK" ‘ AGmCULTURE. nurnanou.
CALIFORNik

AND FORESTRY
HUMAN RESOURCES
GENE. PRAY

ADMINJSTRA'NVE Asscsrnm‘ {m [11;in 3 inf-9% f$ enaie BUDGET

WASHlNGTON. D.C. 20510

June 23, 1978

National Anti-Vivisection Society
100 East Ohio Street
Chicago, Illinois 60611

Dear Friend:

I am writing to you because I have recently become in»
terested in the subject of vivisection. As you are well
aware, this issue arises every session of Congress, with
little attention accorded it.

One of the aspects of this area that comes to my attention
most frequently is the cruel treatment of animals used
in scientific research. Various newspapers report that
some of these animals are needlessly mistreated and maimed.

I would like to request any information that you might
have to support the belief that much of this research can
be done without the use of live animals. I would like to
know exactly what alternatives are available, or could

be cultivated, to allow for scientific research without
adversely affecting the results or progress of such
research.

I thank you for your c00peration. Any questions you
might have may be directed to Mrs. Ginny Eby of my staff
here in Washington. , a wwmma ans“

. ‘1‘” _>

Sincerely,

NW
5.1.Hayakawa

. ’ 24:11:!”

Slﬁzge ﬂ
Ma’},/ an} J, «7 4%,»/ ‘4 ($2, I‘ H 3~1./‘
94/“? {'- /Z M ":7 0 $1096 ' r/J‘jéf Z, a ~ , f

7 x”
‘ﬁﬂﬂt inklrﬂr f %;i ﬁ//%Z%’

 




Dear Miss Stevens -

Suggest you get in'touch with
Senator Hayakawa.

Edward R. Greenwood

 




Qgpy for Miss Stevens

July 21, 1978

Senaﬁor S. Hayakawa
Senate foice Bldg.,
.‘Waahington, D.$. 20510

Saar Senate? Haydkawax;

Thousands of psopla wera watching you when you, all by yaurself, finally
-sqnﬁlched a senseleaa raballion and revolution at tha Univarsity, an act .
no ﬂoubt which halpad_to elact ypu and i'am fair;y sure you will be neﬁded
in a not far away fgture ta hely our canntry again.

Because of your keen intgrest in this Ratien'a affaira I and thauaands are'
not at all surprised to find.you intﬁrwated,in»vivia&ction. It has beeams
big buginesa'becanse of $he gamerwua disbursal of ﬁavgrnment grants. Ea
‘knqw that duplicating of similar and same exparimants all bacanse otherwisa
each grants unuid.ba stopped. Thrcugh this experimentation and duplication.
the delivery of unfortunape animals haa‘alao develgped lute big business.
You will find the waste of taxpayers‘ moneyxand ﬂavarnment grants is just
incredible and also a wasta of those pear unfortunate animals o£_which 39
little is aaid or known. , ' ‘

The Sociaty for Protective Animal Legislatian has been very actiV@. It is
a selfless, fine group. I knaw'they can aﬁrve you and furniah you with“
sufficient information.and 0f caurae the nationally known columniat,
Cleveland £m9ry unuld’enlymb@.gladgto help you in any invsatigaticn.

It see 8 incredible that we, suppasﬁﬂly a civiiixad.naticn,'mmgt hav& so
many groups and institutions watching to yrﬁvwnt animal abusa. Fartunatcly,
Americans as a uh9la ara very kindly &nd saftnhﬁarted tauards animals.
Howevar, the antivity 0f such viviaection grmuaa which I under5tand also
are new intraduced in.8chools, are shraudad in sacrecy. '

If you can halp, Senatar Hayakaaa, thousanda, maybe hunﬁraés of thauaanda'
will be gr&t&fully watching.' I

r Very sincwrely,

. Edward R..Greenwood

- P.S. I asked a Canadian orgaaization, all volunteﬁrs, to sand yam acme mamarﬂal
on the alubbing to death of baby gaals.1n ﬂ mada.‘ I rﬁalize thia is a'}
degicate situatian for you as a United 3L&ze3 Sanatwr, but maybe you can .
come up with some brilliant thaughts on tﬁia aubjeat. It's just incsncaivable it's
so cruel. ‘ '

 




S. I. HAYAKAWA COMMITTEES:
CALIFORNIA AGRICULTURE. NUTRITION.

AND FORESTRY
GENE PRAT HUMAN RESOURCES

ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT g (“itch $£a£e$ ﬁenafe BUDGET

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

July 25, 1978

Le. ﬂarjorie Barinq
16MB Shoreline
“Lita ELLLara, California 93107

LLLLL you Ecr vour rece.v;t,co1re<poxuexce regardiLq yrur
concern over the use of live r ab1its in the training of
areyLoxxd" for raciLq.

been several Lille introduced relateﬁ

woulﬁ amend the Animal Welfare Act to

aLin ale ag visual lures iL dog raciLg

‘ “1034c Com: :iLq Prevegtioz; Act, we
knowingly SporL eoring or PzﬂlrlTlII

iL aLv ic cLiruiLc Both measures are peLdiLg in the

"LLVirOI aLd Pamlic Works Committee. I have been

ned by the amml+fee that it is unlikely any action will

place on rh se Lille, aLd there are no hearings Scheduled at

tii‘i'l‘ﬂ-

,
K.
.

rfd-H
., t‘ “f;
(F U)
.I +~l {a‘bj b“
H -s iv
<4: (I)
3 ’5 5" (a: (2') <1; 1;?

Q)
:4

I‘dt'

if] Q; U
- f”? 9". m
" (:j s

? PW»

Pl

()5 f“ Fl.

y-

3:
”' In '.
‘5, ("9' Q) U L:

I
M

,. C-
-l":‘,1"'5 H

.w
m(no L

I Share vour concern over this Situation, and will certainly
_ your views iL mind should this leqislation LegiL to move in
Committee.
A.d aiL, thank you Eo r writing.

Sincerely yours,

8. I.Hayaka%a

1 WV

SIB/mqj \\~#ML

 




S. I. HAYAKAWA COMMITTEES:
CALIFORNIA AGRICULTURE. NUTRITION,
' AND FORESTRY

GENE PRAT HUMAN RESOURCES

ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT #9.] (“itch ﬁfafcﬁ genaie BUDGET

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

August 11, 1978

Ms. Christine Stevens
r.0. on 3719

Dear Ms. Stevens:

Thank you for your recent letter regarding the g rOposed
anendments to weaken the Endangered Species Act of 1973.

On July 19, 1978, the Senate Hoditied existing law by
passing S. 2899, an amendment to create an interagency committee,
con31sting or seven members, to review federal activities which
come into irresclvatle conflict with the Act. I suggorted this
amendment, which would empower the committee to grant exemptions
tron the Act for some governnent construction grojects. The law
would reouire afrirnx1.tive votes rrcm five or the seven committee
members before a groject could be exempted. Although I in :10 way
wanted to sul:vert the intention oi the existing legislation, I
believe that we need sozne flexibility to prevent damaging action
in the iuture~ The extreme efforts to weaken the bill were no
more successful than extreme noves to strengthen it.

In addition, I introduced an anendnent to the Endangered
Species Act chviding for the uzanagement, conservation and
[:rotection of endangered and threatened Species 01 plants. The
amendment corrects an overs1ght in the 1973 Act whicn had
Breviously been interpreted to mean that federal aid to states
tor endangered Species agplied only to fisn and Wildlife but not
to plants. My anendment passed the Senate by voice vote.

Again, thank you for writing. I appreciate your interest in
making me aware of your views.

Sincerely yours,

~9¢m MW

5. I.rHayakawaf

 




 

 

." , 4"
gﬂézﬂ/e7/7
S. I. HAYA KAWA COMMITTEES:

CALIFORNIA AGRICULTURE. NUTRITION.
' AND FORESTRY

GENE PRAT HUMAN RESOURCES

"M” QICnifeh ﬁfafes ﬁenaie BUDGET

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

August 15,

Ms. Ruth Peterson
8727 Railroad Avenue
Santee, California 92071

Dear MS . Peterson:

Thank you for your recent letter regarding the Tellic Dam
Project in Tennessee. -

The Tellico Dam.has been the subject of controversy for
several years now. Last year, the Supreme Court held that
completion of the dam would threaten the tiny snail darter,
violating Section 7 of the Endangered Species Act. As a result
of the decision, the Senate passed S. 2899 which created an
interagency committee to review federal activities which come
into irresolvable conflict with the Endangered Species Act. The
committee reviewed the Tellico project and barred completion of
the dam, citing cost ineffectiveness as the basis for its
decision.

On July 17, 1979, during consideration of the Energy and
Water Development ApprOpriation Bill, the Senate adopted an
amendment deleting language in the act which would have
authorized the Tennessee Valley Authority to complete
construction of the dam despite the interagency review
committee's findings. The anendment deleting the controversial
language was agreed to by a vote of 53 to 45.

Sincerely yours,

S. I. Hayakawa;

 




S. I. HAYAKAWA COMMITTEES:

CALIFORNIA AGRICULTURE. NUTRITION.
AND FORESTRY

GENE PRAT, PH. D.
FOREIGN RELATIONS

ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT 13‘] (“itch ﬁfafeﬁ ﬁeﬂafe SMALL BUSINESS

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

February

Mr. N.C. Sutherland
3731 Bay Leaf Way
Oceanside, California 92054

Dear Mr. Sutherland:

Thank you for your letter concerning the Department of the
Interior's Animal Damage Control 9rogram.

In November, the Secretary of the Interior announced
revisions to the Animal Damage Control Program for fiscal year
1980. Those revisions included a ban on the current methods of
predator control except in areas where damage to livestock is
substantial, an end to the research on compound 1080, and a ban
on the practice of denning. Overall, the focus of the Depart-
ment's new program is on the development of new and environ-
mentally acceptable methods of animal control.

In response to the Secretary's actions, I joined with
fourteen other Senators in cosigning a letter to the Secretary of
Interior stating our objections to the Department's new policy.
Eight major objections were outlined in the letter. The letter
emphasized our belief that the revisions to the Animal Control
Program do not meet the growing need to protect livestock and
control predators.- In particular, we questioned the absolute ban
on denning, the decrease of aerial gunning, and the elimination
of research on Compound 180. The letter also stressed the fact
that the new policies place ranchers at an increasing economic
disadvantage. ~

I appreciate receiving your views on this matter and will
keep them in mind.

Sincerely yours,

SMAAVW

. Hayakawa

SIH/mgm

 




S. I . HAYAKAWA . r communes:
A
C L'FORN'A . « ~ ~ AGRICULTURE. NUTRITION.
AND FORESTRY
FOREIGN RELATIONS

ytﬂifeh ﬁfafeﬁ ﬁeﬂafe SMALL BUSINESS

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

September 28,

Mr. Harry S. Mays
2409 Pine Knoll, 2
Walnut Creek, California 94595

Dear Mr. Mays:

Thank you for your letter concerning the Desert Pupfish in
Nevada.

In January, S. 41, a bill to authorize the establishment of
the Desert Pupfish National Wildlife Refuge, was introduced. The
bill would authorize the Secretary of the Interior to establish
the refuge on approximately forty thousand acres in Ash Meadows,
Nevada. S. 41 also would remove the Devil's Hole area from Death
Valley National Monument and include the area in Desert Pupfish
National Wildlife Refuge.

Several species of pupfish have lived in Ash Meadows for
twenty thousand years. The pupfish were able to survive the Ice
Age but may not last another decade because their existence is
threatened by water development projects in the area. The fish
are of particluar significance to the study of genetic evolution.
In addition to the desert pupfish found in the area, there also
are unique species of plants found no other place in the world.

S. 41 was referred to the Senate Committee on Energy and
Natural Resources for review. Should this issue come before the
full Senate, I will keep yor views in mind when voting.

'I appreciate your comments.

Sincerely,

ai‘qM

S. I. Hayakawa

 




S. l. HAYAKAWA COMMITTEES:

\

Mr...“

/

CALIFORNIA AGRICULTURE, NUTRITION.

AND FORESTRY
. FOREIGN RELATIONS
QJCHIfeh ﬁfafeﬁ $91!an SMALL BUSINESS

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

October 5,

Mrs. Hazel Mays

2409 Pine Knoll, 2

Walnut Creek. California 94595
Dear Mrs. Mays:

Thank you very much for your letter and copy of the book,
Alternatives to Pain in Experiments on Animals. It is certainly
a useful presentatign‘QENEEisvissue.

I have received many letters in addition to yours, asking
that I look into the matter of vivisection and use of animals in
experiments. In response to these requests, I have been in touch
with many related organizations to receive results of research
done in this area. In particular, I appreciate having your book
to study about the alternatives to using live animals in medical
experiments. Be assured that I shall carefully review your and
others material I receive on this issue. and will keep your
concerns in mind.

It was good to hear from you.

Sincerely,

$44M

\\\\Nj;1. Hayakawa
SIHzamb //

. I ' /
x/ - i . ...— 2 , {if I - Z/H/II\
I ,1

 




