 

 

 

 

TETANU S
AND ANTITOXIN

BY

M. BEDDOVV BAYLY
M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P.

ISSUED BY
THE ANIMAL DEFENCE AND ANTI-VIVISECTION SOCIETY
15, ST. JAMEs’s PLACE, 'ST. JAMEs’s STREET, LONDON, S.W.1,
AND 4, COUR ST. PIERRE, GENEVA.

(BUREAU INTERNATIONAL HUMANITAIRE ZOOPHILE).

Price Twopence

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

2

TETANUS
AND ANTITOXIN

By M. BEDDOW BAYLY, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P.

The late Sir James Mackenzie, writing of the teacher
in the Medical Schools, once stated:—

“ In the absence of any knowledge acquired from the results
of his own observations he is forced to teach that which he
was himself taught and as he cannot discriminate between
truth and superstition he hands both on to his students.”
He added that “ as years pass he comes to believe what
he has taught is true and may even grow impervious
to new ideas which are contrary to the beliefs he has
been expounding.”1

A striking instance of a superstition which has been
promulgated in this way is provided by the Pasteurian
theories regarding the bacillary cause of disease and the
methods of immunization against them.

Having held the ﬁeld of medical thought for the past
ﬁfty years or more, it will probably be another ﬁfty
years before it is at all generally recognised that, before
the tribunal of the most advanced and competent
authorities, they have become discredited and obsolete.
We shall ﬁnd an adequate, if disquieting, explanation
of this state of things in the above—quoted pronounce-
ments of Sir james Mackenzie.

As an example of the modern challenge to these
accepted theories one might quote the statement of Sir
Almroth Wright in an address which he gave before the
Charing Cross Medical School in 1931 on the subject
of “ Immunity ”; referring to what he termed the
“ Pasteurian Decalogue,” he declared that of these com-
mandments “ very few remained intact. It was time to
think these problems out afresh.”2

Still more startling was his opinion regarding the rule
of Pasteur that, “the value of immunizing procedure
can be decided only by statistical test, ’ ’ for he maintained
that “ though every doctor paid lip—service to this

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

3

doctrine, there were no medical statistics of treatment
in reality, for it was impossible to leave half the patients
in a hospital untreated to serve as ‘ controls ’ for the
others. All that a doctor could do was to form a general
impression from his memory of what happened in one
case after another.”

This revelation of a primary fallacy at the very root
of the arguments on which the cherished beliefs in favour
of serum-therapy have been based seems obviously to
demand a reinvestigation of their credentials, and it was
in pursuance of this object that I was prompted to write
this article, taking as an example for discussion the
antitoxic treatment of tetanus, which, by reason of the
prominence it assumed during the war, has come to be
regarded as one of the most outstanding successes of
serum-therapy. .

We shall ﬁrst deal brieﬂy with the question of the
microbic cause of tetanus. the Pasteurian theory upon
which, of course, the whole ediﬁce of serum technique
is based.

THE GERM THEORY

According to the Report of the Royal Commission on
Vivisection (1912), “ Kitasato, in 1889, succeeded in
isolating and cultivating a bacillus from cases of tetanus
and claimed-to have proved by the injection of a pure
culture of the organism into animals that it, and it alone,
was responsible for the disease.” (p. 39)

On the other hand, Dr. Leonard Hill in a Report to
the Medical Research Committee on Ventilation (1920)
stated: “Tetanus and gas gangrene bacilli washed clean
and injected are innocuous.” Moreover, a later Report
of the Medical Research Council (1924-5) declared in
regard to the tetanus bacillus that “ the defence or
immunity of the host is complete as against the parasite
so long as that is acting alone.”

In fact, “ the bacilli are in pure culture incapable of
vegetating in Vivo.”3

Further conﬂicting facts, which have so far received no

 

 




 

 

4

adequate explanation, are provided by the following
quotations. According to The Oﬁ‘icial History of the War
(Pathology, 1923):—

“ Tullock and Miss Cayley, examining 100 consecutive
wounds in cases where no tetanus was present, demon-
strated toxic tetanus bacilli certainly in 19 cases and
probably in 21.” (p. 191) '

“ He (Tullock) cultivated material from the wounds
of 200 cases of actual tetanus and only succeeded in
obtaining the bacillus, at least in a pure enough condition
for agglutination, in 50 per cent. of them.” (p. 191)

In A System of Bacteriology (Vol. III), published by
the Medical Research Council in 1929, it is stated that
“ considering the wide distribution of tetanus spores and
the frequency with which they must gain access to
wounds it is surprising that tetanus is so rare.” (p. 349)

More recently, Drs. W. E. Gye and W. J. Purdy,
when referring to tetanus in their book, The Cause of
Cancer (Cassell and Co., Ltd., 1931), declared:—

“ The presence of the organism is by itself insufﬁcient.
Alone it cannot produce the disease; other factors play a
determining part. The impotence of the unaided organism
combined with its ubiquity gives to the determining factors
almost the signiﬁcance of primary causes.” (p. 505)

To summarise the preceding authoritative statements,
we may say, therefore, that as the results of exhaustive
scientiﬁc investigations extending over the past forty
years it has been established that the tetanus bacillus,
when in pure culture and washed, is innocuous, and will
not multiply in the human body, for the immunity of
the latter against it is complete. Although frequently
present in wounds it rarely gives rise to any disease,
and may even be demonstrated in a virulent form in
about 20 per cent. of war wounds without any tendency
to cause tetanus; on the other hand, in about 50 per
cent. of actual clinical tetanus it cannot be found.
Nevertheless, medical opinion is almost unanimous in
proclaiming it to be the sole cause and origin of. tetanus.

Here, then, we ﬁnd fundamental contradictions as the
basis upon which medical science has attempted to found

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

5

both its conception as to the primary cause of the disease
and its method of treatment. We shall see to what
further fallacies and failures the blind acceptance of the
primary fallacy of regarding tetanus purely as a disease
caused by bacterial infection has inevitably led.

SERUM-THERAPY

The use of Anti-tetanic serum, derived from horses
which have been inoculated over a period with successive
and increasing doses of the toxin of tetanus bacilli, may
be discussed under three separate headings : ——

(1) As a true prophylactic—before injury has opened

the way for possible infection.

(2) As a curative agent—after the symptoms of disease

have appeared.

(3) As a prophylactic after injury and possible in-

fection, but before any symptoms have manifested
themselves.

SERUM AS A PREVENTIVE

(1) In the Lancet of November 11th, 1916 (p. 833),
it is admitted that “ there is strong experimental
evidence, as the recent revised Memorandum issued by
the War Ofﬁce Committee for the Study of Tetanus
shows, that in about ten days the immunity conferred
by the primary injection of antitoxin is to a great extent
lost.”

For this reason serum has proved to be a complete
failure as a true prophylactic and is no longer recom-
mended as such by any medical authority of standing.

SERUM AS A CURE

(2) As a curative agent its uselessness is now admitted
on all sides. Subsequent experience has only served to
corroborate the statement in the Report of the Royal
Commission on Vivisection (1912) that “ it has not
proved of practical value in the treatment of tetanus.”

(p. 40)

 




 

 

 

6

As Drs. O’Brien and Glenny confess when alluding to
this subject in A System of Bacteriology (Vol. III), “ The
treatment of tetanus with anti-toxin did not result in the
favourable outcome which had been anticipated and has
not done so to this day.” (p. 359)

Dr. Bullock, also, writing in the same work, asserts:
“ In succeeding years it became evident that the anti-
toxic treatment was not all that had been hoped for.”
(p. 300)

As examples of recent investigations the following
extracts from the journal of the American Medical A $50-
ciation (June let, 1930, Vol. XCIV, No. 25, p. 1977),
may be taken as typical:

“ ]. K. Calvin and A. H. Goldberg state that in their
experience the mortality from tetanus at the Cook County
Hospital has not decreased in the past ﬁfteen years in
spite of the fact that in the last ﬁve years larger amounts
of antitoxin were used and it was given intra-spinally to
more patients. (My italics).

“ Tetanus following gunshot and powder wounds had
a high mortality (95 per cent); following lacerations a
relatively low mortality (44 per cent); and following
puncture wounds a mortality about midway between
the two . . .

“ The available evidence in these cases as to the
therapeutic use of Antitetanic Serum does not justify any
assertions that such use appreciably affects the character
of the mortality, whether the serum is given intraspinally
or intravenously or by both routes, or whether large
doses are given, or how early they may be given.”

Even in The Ofﬁcial History of the War (Path), in
which every effort is made to establish the value of anti-
toxin, and tables of mortality are presented which at
ﬁrst glance seem to provide evidence of its efﬁcacy, we
read:

“ It must be confessed that where treatment (by anti-
tetanic serum) was employed in the severe tetanus of
uninoculated men, the same success was rarely obtained
and the mortality of such cases was almost as high as
ever.” (p. 206)

 




 

 

7

We shall deal with the simple fallacy underlying the
lcomparison of inoculated with non-inoculated groups
ater.

An illustration of the failure of the serum may be
found in the British Medical journal of April 27th, 1918;
it is representative of many such tragic instances which
have been recorded from time to time in the medical
journals, and of many others which have passed into
oblivion Without receiving any ofﬁcial notice.

In the present instance the following was reported as
the sequence of events: Pte. 13., aged 24, who was
suffering from malaria contracted in Macedonia. received
an intramuscular injection of quinine on March 8th,
1919. On March 19th he complained of stiff jaws, and
later on of stiff neck. A subcutaneous injection of 8,000
units of anti-tetanic serum was given. On the morning
of March 20th he had frequent tetanic spasms. At 10
am. on that day he received 8,000 units of anti-tetanic
serum intramuscularly and 16,000 units intravenously.
He died from generalised tetanus at 5.30 p.m. on the
same day.

THE PRESENT USE OF SERUM

As regards the present-day employment of the serum
as a prophylactic inoculation after presumed infection
we may take the following statement as a typical example
of the claims that are made in favour of this form of
treatment; it will usefully serve to summarise the main
arguments the fallacies of which it will then be our pur-
pose to expose.

Sir James Craig, in the course of a debate on com~
pulsory vaccination in the Dail (11th May, 1928)
asserted:

“ Formerly tetanus was regarded as almost incurable,
If a man fell where there was any farmyard manure
he was almost certain to get his wound infected with
tetanus. Now, when a man gets wounded, as in the
Great War, we give him an inoculation immediately and
no tetanus occurs."

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

8

There are four distinct fallacies explicit or implicit in
this statement.

(a) One cannot speak of “ curing ” a disease until the
symptoms of that disease have manifested themselves;
before this stage medical treatment of any kind is
regarded as preventive. As We have seen, tetanus is just
as “ incurable ” now as ever it was. The implication
that there has been any change as the result of the use
of anti-toxin is false.

(b) There must be tens of thousands of instances every
year where farm labourers and others receive cuts or
scratches in the presence of soil contaminated with
manure, and yet the proportion who develop tetanus in
consequence of such infection is inﬁnitesimal.

In their well known book on Serums, Vaccines and
Toxins (1916, p. 146) Drs. Bosanquet and Eyre remark
in this connection: “ We have already pointed out that
tetanus is too uncommon a disease for statistics of it to
be valuable.” Nevertheless, such as they are, they show
no dramatic alteration since the introduction of the
routine injection of serum, which occurred about 1919,
for the annual death rate per million of the population
in England and Wales has only dropped from 6 to 3 in
the last twenty-ﬁve years (1910-1934), following a gradual
decline which had been a similar feature in the mortality
of other diseases of an infective nature and due to lack
of general cleanliness and hygienic treatment.

So far as this progressive fall in the mortality from
tetanus among the civil population is concerned, it will
be found by careful analysis of the statistics into age
groups that by far the greater part of it occurred among
infants under three months of age. The reason is to be
sought in the more aseptic treatment of the umbilical
cord after birth, i.e., the substitution of a clean dusting
powder for the old-fashioned Fuller’s earth, and similar
1mprovements.

1:313:63 may read in A System of Bacteriology (Vol. III,
p. :

“ The occurrence of tetanus neonatorum from infection
of the navel was formerly common, but was ‘ almost
peculiar to infants of the'ﬁlthy poor ’ (Hirsch 1886)."




 

.__n_—. r—‘V

 

 

9

“ This state of affairs was soon suppressed by simple
hygienic precautions.’ ’

“These facts are, therefore, in agreement with Hirsch’s
opinion that the prime cause of tetanus neonatorum is
ignorance and squalor.” ‘

The normally low incidence of tetanus, which has at
all times been a feature of the disease, can be ascribed
neither to careful cleansing of wounds when received,
nor to the avoidance of subsequent infection; nor, on
the other hand is it to be explained by the possible
absence of the bacillus, for the Medical Research
Committee, in their Report for 1924-5, explain that
“ under natural conditions the infection is due to con-
tamination of a wound with material containing tetanus
spores. These spores are widely distributed in nature,
particularly in soil, and this will frequently be carried
into wounds; nevertheless tetanus is rare.” (p. 315,
my italics).

The fact is, as we may read in the Oﬁicial History of
the War (Pathology, p. 192), that “ In spite then of its
enormous toxicity (sic), the tetanus bacillus possesses
little virulence, i.e., little capacity to grow in the body
and invade the tissues. In the absence of favouring
conditions the spores fail to germinate, and remain in
the tissues not even as saprophytes but as inert bodies...
this period may be indeﬁnitely prolonged and the spores
eventually perish, no tetanus arising. This appears to
have been the rule during the war.” According to this
writer “ it has been realized during the war that the
tetanus bacillus or its spores may be present in vast
numbers of wounds without producing tetanus.” (p. 191)

As an example of the length of time the bacilli may
remain in the tissues quite innocuously, he cites a case
of Tullock’s who “ cultivated the bacillus from the
wound of a man, showing no evidence of tetanus 882
days after it had been inﬂicted.” (p. 196)

The assumption, then, that before serum was available
everyone who suffered from a soil-infected wound ran
a grave risk of developing tetanus is one that exists only

 




 

 

10

in the minds of those who allow their enthusiasm for
serum treatment to blind them to the facts. Neither is
it true, on the other hand, to imply that to—day the
use of serum is a certain safeguard. Quite apart from
the instances of failure revealed from time to time in
the reports of Coroners’ inquests, an instance of which
has been given, the general lack of success is indicated
in the Report of the Commission charged with the Study
of Anti—tetanic Vaccination (President, P. Frédet).

According to this report “ The statistics from foreign
countries, especially Austria and those in France, prove
a heavy mortality from tetanus in spite of the use of
preventive serum/’4

Dr. W. W. C. Topley, too, in his well-known book,
An Outline» of Immunity (1933), confesses that “ unless
the large doses that should clearly be tried are found
to be more effective than those used in the past, the
treatment of this disease can hardly claim to be one
of the successes of applied immunity.” (p. 363)

(c) The implication that in previous wars, before the
introduction of anti-toxin, tetanus had a far higher in-
cidence than in the last war is not borne out by medical
history.

The following quotations from the Oﬁicial History of
the War (Path.) establish this without any possibility
of doubt:

”In some of the great wars that came in the last cen-
tury there seemed to be a decided drop in. the incidence
of tetanus. The oﬁ‘icial medical history of the British
forces in the Crimean war records only 2 cases of tetanus
in 1,000 of wounded. The surgical history of the
American Civil War shows an incidence of 2 per 1,000
also, and the German statistics of 1870-71 record 3.5
cases. of this disease per 1,000. Finally came a series
of wars, the South African campaign, the Nile expedition,
the Russo-japanese War, in which tetanus seemed to
have vanished completely from the catalogue of military
diseases . . . Longmore has noted that ‘ not a single
case of tetanus occurred among the British troops during

 




 

 

 

 

 

11

the New Zealand war between the years' 1863 and
1867.’ ” (p. 164)

“ There do not appear to have been any cases of
tetanus among the large number of gunshot wounds
which were treated in the hospitals of Paris on the
occasion of the insurrectionary outbreak of 1848; at any
rate, there were not suﬁicient to attract notice.” (p. 165)

“ In the Russo-japanese war battles were fought in
zones of intensive cultivation on ground manured with
both human and horse manure, yet there was practically
no tetanus.” (loc. cit.)

According to the Report of the Royal Commission. on
Vivisection (1912), “ Dr. Martin admitted in evidence
that large quantities of the serum were shipped to South
Africa during the late war, but as only three cases of
tetanus occurred throughout the war, it was not required
and had to be thrown away. Clean surgery, he admitted,
prevented the occurrence of tetanus, notwithstanding the
enormous number of wounded.” (p. 127)

These facts and ﬁgures do not afford any striking con-
trast in favour of those recorded in connection with the
last war, in which, according to The Ofﬁcial History of
the War the incidence of tetanus among the wounded on
the Western Front was 1.47 per 1,000. (p. 168)

It should be understood, moreover, that it appears to
be quite impossible to obtain complete statistics covering
the whole period of the war. If we take such ﬁgures as
I have been able after the most diligent search to dis—
cover, namely those given in A System of Bacteriology
for ten months in 1914-15, together with Capt. H.
Burrows’ estimate for three months in 1916‘, we are
presented with an. average of 2.6 per 1,000 wounded,
a ﬁgure which is not only considerably higher than that
given in The Oﬁ’tcial History of the War, but is higher
even than that recorded for the Crimean war.

As the foregoing statistics do not quite tally with those
given in The Oﬁ’icial History of the War it will be as well
to quote the following table from A System of Bacterio-
logy for comparison (Vol. III, p. 363) :——-

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

”MW, . n

12

Ratio of Tetanus cases to wounded
No. of doses of A-T given

1914. Aug. 3.7 per 1,000 600
Sept. 9.0 ,, ,, 13,950
Oct. 7.3 ,, ,. 84,880
Nov. 2.3 ,, ,, 106,000
Dec. 1.4 ,, ,, 130,000

1915. Jan. 0.0 ,, ,, (Thereafter:
Feb. 1.1 ,, ,, “ Ample
Mar. 0.4 ,, ,, Provision ”)5
Apr. 2.3 ,, ,,

May 08 n H

To this we may .add ﬁgures supplied by Capt. H.

Burrows, bearing 1n mind that, according to his state-
ment, this incidence “ does not represent the full

liability.”
1916. July 1.6 per 1,000
Aug. 1.6 ,, ,,
Sept. 1.6 ,, ,,

We shall then obtain an average incidence of 2.6 per
1,000.

Dr. A. T. MacConkey, of the Lister Institute, writing
in the B.M.]. (Dec. 11th, 1915, p. 850), gives the still
higher ﬁgure of 6.5 per 1,000 among 83,593 wounded
(reported by 16 observers); while even among 1,881
wounded whohad received a prophylactic inoculation
he shows the incidence to have been 2.6 per 1,000.

Yet, strange to say, we ﬁnd that the Medical Cor-
respondent of T he Times (August 2nd, 1917) had the
temerity to write that “ the public is by this time
familiar with the fact that a great conquest of disease
has been affected on the Western Front. In no regard
has this been more marked than in relation to tetanus
or lockjaw, which has practically disappeared since
inoculation immediately after wounding was adopted.”

Small blame attaches to the public for being misled
by such mis—statements, but one is entitled to expect,
I think, a higher regard for accuracy from medical
scientists who pose as experts on general medical matters
to the public at large.

$1-4




 

 

 

13

It is quite clear that some explanation is needed which
will supply at the same time both the reason for the
high incidence of tetanus in the early months of the war
and the fall in that incidence after those months had
passed. Indeed we have not? far to seek.

To those who recall the insufﬁciency of ambulances
and medical appliances in the early days of the War,
the real complicating factors are at once evident; Sir
David Bruce acknowledges “ the difﬁculty of collecting
the wounded on account of their numbers and the move-
ments of the troops, and ﬁnally the difﬁculty of giving
the thorough surgical treatment to their wounds which
is so essential in the ﬁght against tetanus.”

That it was these fundamental causes which modiﬁed
the incidence of tetanus is admitted in an article by
F. Golla, M.B., B.Ch., Oxon., entitled An analysis of
Recent Tetanus Statistics, which appeared in the Lancet
of December 29th, 1917. He suggests that such slight
initial diminution of mortality as may be seen in the
late War when compared with the Franco-Prussian War
of 1870 (when anti-tetanic inoculation was unknown)
might be placed to the credit, not of serum, but of “ our
improved methods of rendering ﬁrst aid to the wounded
and abstention from drastic operations.” (p. 968

.” It must at any rate be conceded,” he wrote, “ that
if the slight initial decrease of mortality is all that can
be claimed for serum treatment the result is not very
encouraging.’ ’

In fact there are some who might be inclined to con-
sider, not without some justiﬁcation, that the result was
somewhat depressing in view of Dr. Golla’s showing that
for tetanus developing in the third week after the in-
ﬂiction of the wound the 1916 mortality was slightly
above that for the Franco-Prussian War.

(d) The fourth fallacy lies in the assumption that
tetanus was practically unknown in the Great War. The
following are the statistics of tetanus cases which
actually reached the United Kingdom, but do not include
cases which died abroad.

 




 

 

 

 

 

14

 

Percentage
Year Cases Deaths Mortality
1914 192 104 ' 54 per cent.
1915 134 75 56 ,, ,,
1916 501 182 36 ,, ,,
1917 353 68 19.2,, ,,
1918 266 68 25 ,, ,,

1446 497 34 per cent.

 

It is true that during the ﬁrst few months of the War
the ratio of cases from Tetanus decreased; according to
Sir David Bruce the ﬁgures were: 5

September 1914 16 per 1,000 wounded

October 1914 32 ,, ,, ,,
November 1914 2 ,, ,, ,,

But it would not be true to say that antitoxin was
not used in the earlier months, for he informs us that
the number of doses issued were : ——

August 1914 ... 600
September ... 12,000
October . .. 44,000
November ... 112,000

If the decrease in the incidence of tetanus in November
is claimed to be due to the increase in the use of serum,
how, on the other hand, are we to explain the doubling
of the incidence of the disease in October when three and
a half, times as many doses of serum had been issue ?
It is as logical to argue that the serum caused the rise
in incidence in the one case as the fall in the other.

We may note two further points of interest here.

The Oﬁ‘zcial History of the War (p. 181) informs us
that “ by the end of November, 1914, ample provision
(of anti—tetanic serum) was available at the scene of
operations.” Yet from the preceding table it is clear
that in 1915 the case mortality from Tetanus, in spite
of the universal use of inoculation, was higher than it
had been in 1914.

A remarkable table given by Sir David Bruce in the
Lancet (Sept. 15th, 1917, p. 413), shows the adverse
effect of repeated doses of serum and needs no further
comment, except to point out that the single case with
four injections proves nothing.




15

 

 

No. Of No. of . Mortal't
Inoculations Cases Recovered Dled per cerit?
1 37 33 4 10'8
2 18 14 4 22. 2
3 5 3 2 400
4 1 l 0 0'0

 

 

 

 

 

Having demonstrated that tetanus was at no time a
frequent sequel to wounds either in civil life or during
military operations; that the curative value of antitoxin
serum is nil; and that there is little evidence that the
occurrence of tetanus in cases of infected wounds has
been materially affected by the prophylactic use of
serum, we have still to deal with the claim that the
inoculation of serum mitigates the severity of the disease
and therefore reduces the number of deaths which other~
wise would occur.

MITIGATION THEORY

In other words We have to face the fact that the
statistical tables set forth in T he Oﬁ‘zcial History of the
War and elsewhere show a favourable case-mortality in
the inoculated as compared with those who had received
no prophylactic injection of serum. Until the fallacy
underlying this classiﬁcation is properly understood it
would be easy to assume from these ﬁgures that a certain '
measure of protection against the disease had been
afforded. .

Now in order to prove the value of any single factor
in treatment it is essential to ensure that other com-
plicating factors have been eliminated or compensated
for in all cases; otherwise any beneﬁt which is observed
may easily be credited to the wrong factor.

In this case the great complicating factor which has
been overlooked or ignored is to be sought in the reason
Why in certain cases no prophylactic inoculation was
given. Seeing that it is admitted that after November,
1914, there was no lack of supplies of serum at the front,

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

16

and that the inoculation against tetanus was so much
a matter of routine that, as we are informed in ‘a
Memorandum of the Ministry of Health (1916), army
doctors were directed to report the reason why they did
not use iii in any particular case, it is clear that such
reasons must have been of a particularly cogent nature.

No one would maintain, for instance, that the anti-
toxin was withheld in certain cases for experimental
reasons, just in order to provide control cases to compare
with those inoculated. The general belief in the efﬁcacy
of serum both in medical and military. circles would at
once negative such an idea.

As Sir Almroth Wright has already been quoted (in
the, opening paragraphs of this article) as stating:—

“ It was impossible to leave half the patients in a hospital
untreated to serve as ‘ controls ’ for the others.”

The division of cases into inoculated and uninoculated
is obviously, therefore, not a scientiﬁc classiﬁcation at
all, for all who could be inoculated were inoculated.
The omission of inoculation was governed not by scien-
tiﬁc considerations, but by the impossibility of giving
any kind of treatment needed under the appalling con-
ditions which often prevailed. As Sir William Leishman
and Major A. B. Smallman wrote:

“ It should be borne in mind that delay in giving the pre-
ventive inoculation is almost always caused by the impos-
sibility of removing the wounded man from the place where
he was hit till military conditions permitted. Such‘ cases are
therefore especially liable to gangrene and to the more severe
forms of septic trouble.”8

Naturally many such cases would be considered unﬁt
to withstand the additional shock and strain of inocula-
tion; having waited in shell—holes for hours or even days,
or left exposed in No Man’s Land to the hell-ﬁre of
shell and bullet, with no chance of having their wounds
cleansed, it is not surprising that they should develop
tetanus and succumb more readily to it than their more
fortunate comrades whom it was possible to rescue
quickly, to cleanse, dress, and incidentally treat with an

early dose of serum.




as-

17

Moreover, owing to the custom of ascribing death to
the more dramatic or terminal cause, even though many
other causes might be simultaneously present (such as
shock, toxaemia, haemorrhage, etc.), the tendency would
be, as it undoubtedly was in previous wars when the
methods of dealing with the more terrible mutilations
were more primitive than they are at the present day,
to classify under the heading of tetanus many deaths
due in reality to conditions of shock and exposure, but
in which symptoms of tetanus had supervened.

In spite of this fallacy, the actual difference in the
fatality—rates of the two classes was not always so
striking as the advocates of serum usually claim,
especially when reliable and fairly large numbers are
compared. According to The Oﬁicial History of the
War:

“ In France, during the latter half of 1916, the whole of
1917, and during 1918 up to the Armistice, there were 520 cases
in wounded persons which it can be shown by reliable records
that prophylactic inoculation was given. Of these 345 died,
a mortality-rate of 66.5 per cent. In the same period there
were 160 cases in non-inoculated persons with 115 deaths, or
71.8 per cent.” (p. 184)

This mortality of 66.5 per cent. among the inoculated
compares less favourably with that recorded among
British troops during 1914, the period of least inocula-
tion, namely 54 per cent. '

Even in the above instance no evidence is given as
to the reasons why serum inoculation was withheld,
reasons which, as we have seen, might well in themselves
amply account for the slightly higher mortality. More-
over, the writer of the chapter in A System of Bacteriology
which deals with this subject, in a review of the history
0f antitoxin, makes the startling admission (p. 320) that
“ The mortality in untreated cases, therefore, ranged
between 79 and 90 per cent, but the highest ﬁgure,
97 per cent. in 325 cases, was observed during the 4th
July celebrations in the United States, and these mostly
were treated (July, 1904-7).” (My italics).

 




 

 

 

18

STERILISATION AS GOOD AS SERUM

On the other hand, as to the equal value of other
methods of treatment, we ﬁnd Lieut.-Colonel F. P.
Maynard, M.B., F.R.C.S., stating:

“ It is because our results from thorough sterilisation of
infected wounds are as good as in hospitals where antitetanic
serum is used that we have come to rely upon sterilisation
and do without the costly serum.”9

EARLY TREATMENT FALLACY

This same fallacy of classiﬁcation underlies the further
argument usually brought forward, namely that the
earlier the serum is given after the wOund has been
sustained, the better the chance of escaping tetanus.*
As we have seen, delay in such a matter is not the
result of scientiﬁc experiment (as the statistics and tables
might lead one to suppose) but is caused by factors which
in themselves would undermine the vital resistance of
the wounded man and promote infection of every kind.

The same argument as to early treatment is usually
pursued in the case of Diphtheria Antitoxin; as if any
one could be expected to believe that responsible medical
men would deliberately delay giving children treatment,
which they consider not only beneﬁcial but essential,
for several days, in order to prove the remedy to be less
efﬁcacious the longer the delay.

Here again the delay is due to one of two things: either
the failure to diagnose the disease in its early stages,
or the late removal of the case to hospital. In either
event delay in supplying appropriate general treat-
ment, nursing and surroundings is quite sufﬁcient to
account for a higher death rate.

THE EFFECT OF DELAYED TREATMENT

In the case of tetanus antitoxin even such evidence
as to the effect of delay as The Oﬁicz’al History of the

* c.f.——conﬂicting evidence from four. of Amer. Med. Assoc.
quoted previously (p. 6).

 




 

19

War can muster is far from impressive. A table is given
showing that when the serum was injected on the ﬁrst
day the mortality was 23 per cent, on the second day
20 per cent., and on the third day 25 per cent.

If the claim is made that these ﬁgures show that it
is an advantage to inoculate on the ﬁrst day rather than
on the third, it must also be admitted that they Show
that it is better to delay the treatment until the second
day rather than give it on the ﬁrst.

As a matter of fact the more comprehensive ﬁgures
supplied by Sir David Bruce10 tell very heavily against
the practice of early inoculation. He shows the highest
mortality (47.1 per cent.) to have been in 53 cases treated
intraspinally (the accepted method of choice) on the same
day as the symptoms of tetanus appeared. The next
highest (43 per cent.) in 96 cases treated with the serum
also on the day that the disease set in; the lowest
mortality rate (26 per cent.) was in 23 cases treated with
serum (not intraspinally) on the day after the onset,
while the next lowest (26.9 per cent.) was in cases which
were inoculated intra—muscularly between three and
twelve days after the appearance of symptoms.

Sir David Bruce concludes: “ From these ﬁgures it
would appear that it is better to defer treatment until
the symptoms have been manifest for one or more days.
Quad est absmdum.”

Since, as we have seen, the valuelessness of serum as
a cure for tetanus is acknowledged on all sides, it would
appear that inoculation at any time is, on Sir David
Bruce’s own~ showing, worse than useless.

No wonder Sir Almroth Wright declared of serum-
therapy: “ the whole of this body of beliefs rests, I am
convinced, upon a foundation of sand.”H

Another source of error, common to all prophylactic
treatment, was acknowledged by the Lancet in its issue
of January 27th, 1917, when it cautiously declared. that
there must necessarily be “ a great difﬁculty in deciding
in what proportion of cases the disease has been pre-
vented by the antitoxin and in whatproportion of cases

 




 

 

 

20

the disease would not have occurred, even though no
antitoxinhad been given.” (p. 157)

There is also another consideration which makes it
extremely difﬁcult to credit the fall in the case-mortality
of tetanus to the use of antitoxin. According to the
Memorandum issued by the War Ofﬁce Committee for
the Study of Tetanus “ There is strong experimental
evidence . . . . that in about ten days the immunity
conferred by the primary injection of antitoxin is to a
great extent lost.”12 .

It is clear, then, that after that period has elapsed
the effect of the serum must be slight or nil. Now
according to The Oﬁ‘icial History of the War, 21.7 per

cent. of the British cases occurred after the 25th day .

since the wound was inﬂicted, and it was among these
particular cases that the mortality was lowest. The
following table will make this plain. (0)7. Hist. of War,
Path., p. 176)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1917
10 days 11-21 21-730
Period since wounding & under days days
No. of cases occurring 152 149 43
Percentage mortality 70.0% 68.4% 48.8%
1918
10 days 11-21 22-540
Period since wounding & under days days
No. of cases occurring 85 61 29
Percentage mortality 71.1% 49.1% 31.0%

From these it will be seen that the highest mortality,
and the largest number of cases, occurred in the ﬁrst
ten days, when it might have been expected that the
protective effect of the serum would prove greatest.

Even the writer of The Oﬁicz'al History of the War
. ﬁnds this anomaly rather disconcerting, for in reference
to a series of 65 cases seen by Sir F .W. Andrewes he

 

 

 




21

confesses (p. 202); “ The maximum number of cases in
any one week, more than a quarter of the whole and
including half the fatal cases, is seen to occur during
the ﬁrst week after inoculation, when protection should
have been at its maximum. Fewer and fewer cases
occur as the interval after inoculation grows larger. It
is seen that the clinical type of the disease becomes
milder, instead of more severe as the date of prophylaxis
recedes. The explanation of these facts is obscure.”
(My italics).

AN APHYLACTIC SHOCK

It is only obscure, I would venture to suggest, to
those who have entirely abrogated their judgment in a
determination to believe in the efﬁcacy of serum treat-
ment at any cost, and are oblivious of the fact that the
introduction of a foreign serum into the living body
itself induces a state of “ disease,” which has then to
be combated in addition to the shock and sepsis of the
wounds already received in battle.

As we are informed towards the end of the article on.
tetanus in The Oyﬁcial History of the War (Path.,
p. 207) :—

“ Anaphylactic shock in some degree was not infrequent.
in the serum treatment of cases of tetanus, while severe
urticaria was common. Forty-nine cases of shock were
reported in England with twelve deaths.” .

One such death was recorded by H. R. Dean in the
Journal of Pathology and Bacteriology, 1922 (p. 305);
after a fourth dose of prophylactic serum this soldier
of 22 became cyanosed and vomited. Despite artiﬁcial
respiration, he died within 70 minutes of the injection.

A typical instance occurring in civil life was reported
in the Birmingham Evening Dispatch of October 29th,
1935, and concerned a Mrs. M. A. Smith, of Little Sutton,
who, having crushed her middle ﬁnger, was injected
with anti-tetanic serum by the doctor who dressed the
wound. Within ten minutes she became unconscious
and died before the doctor could be recalled. At the

 

 




 

 

22

inquest the cause of death was recorded as “anaphylactic
shock following the administration of anti-tetanic
serum.”

This affords an indication of the damage which must
_ be sustained in all cases, though not giving rise to such
acute symptoms as lead to their being reported; it may
also account for the high mortality of the ﬁrst ten days
which decreases as the effect of the serum passes off.

N o doubt the explanation will be forthcoming that the
prophylactic injection postpones the onset of the disease
symptoms and hence increases the number of late—
developing mild cases, but there is not a particle
of scientiﬁc evidence to support this contention. It is
purely an assumption based on the fact that a larger
proportion of late cases occurred in the late war than in
the American Civil War. .

But without taking all other factors into consideration
such a variation proves nothing. No attempt has been
made to show that the disease occurs later in the inocu-
lated than to the uninoculated, other factors being equal.
It has long been known that the later the symptoms
manifest themselves after the original damage the greater
is the chance of recovery. Variations in “ incubation ”
periods in tetanus, as in other diseases, have always
been known to exist, as well as seasonal and geographical
variability both in type and virulence, but the underlying
causes of these changes remain an unsolved problem to
medical science.

W. K. Hatch, F.R.C.S., writing in the British Med.
four. of March 27th, 1915, states: “ There appears to
be a cyclical increase in the number and severity of
tetanus cases, as is seen also in plague.” (p. 544)

The suggestion that in the case of tetanus the alteration
has been due to the administration of antitoxin is,
doubtless, a happy inspiration on the part of those who
desire to prove the value of serum treatment, but it
entirely lacks any scientiﬁc corroboration.

It will readily be realised that the inclusion in statistics
of a large number of cases of naturally occurring late

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




23

tetanus would be expected to lower the case mortality
of the disease, and this factor together with the gradually
improved methods of dealing with surgical cases and the
general treatment of the wounded will go far to explain
such reduction of the incidence and mortality of tetanus
as was discernible in the late war.

LOCAL TETANU S

In a similar way the inclusion of that form of the
disease which is known as “ local tetanus,” and was a
conspicuous feature of the late war, will account for a
certain reduction in case mortality. As we may read
in one of the Military Medical Manuals, entitled Ab-
normal Forms of T etcmus, by Courtois—Sufﬁt and R.
Giroux (1918), “ Inasmuch as the true local tetanus has
practically no mortality, it may readily be seen how the
introduction of such cases in statistics of tetanus has
reduced the apparent mortality of the disease, and in-
cidentally encouraged many observers to regard the
reduction of mortality as a demonstration of the efﬁcacy
of some particular form of treatment.” A

The subject of local tetanus however, presents other
important features which demand further consideration.

Local tetanus is a form of tetanus in which the symp-
toms are conﬁned to spasm of muscles in the neighbour-
hood of the initial wound, and it is never fatal.13

According to The Oﬁ‘zcial History of the War “ local
tetanus was almost unknown in man before the war,
though one or two cases had been described,” the reason
given being that the phenomena of local tetanus are
“ known only in protected (i.e., inoculated) persons.“4

The usual explanation offered to account to;~ the large
number of cases which occurred in the late war is that
the inoculation of antitoxic serum modiﬁed the disease
in cases which would otherwise have developed the
general form of the disease and probably have died
therefrom.

As Capt. H. Burrows asserted in an article in the
Lancet: “ In local or modiﬁed tetanus we have a new

 

 




 

24

form of disease. The disease is new because its cause
is new, for local tetanus is tetanus modiﬁed by the
prophylactic use of anti-tetanic serum.”15

It is difﬁcult to accept this hypothesis for two reasons.
In the ﬁrst place, Dr. J. A. Chavany has pointed out
that “ the history of partial tetanus is of very ancient
date, for already in 1363 Guy de Chauliac had made the
distinction between the localised and the generalised
forms of tetanus.”16

In the second place, if we put the case mortality of
untreated tetanus at 50 per cent. (a ﬁgure far lower than
would be acceptable to most authorities) the inclusion of
such a number of additional deaths, as on this basis we
should be forced to assume would have succumbed to
tetanus had not the serum been in use, would so increase
the mortality-rate above that experienced in previous
wars (when the facilities for dealing both promptly and
efﬁciently with the wounded were far inferior) as to
render the whole argument ridiculous. In other words,
to claim that the serum saved the local tetanus cases
from death is to prove the inability of all other measures
both medical and surgical to control the disease.

The only logical explanation, on the contrary, lies in
the assumption that but for the inoculation, the local
tetanus would in most cases not have developed at all.
The following considerations support this view.

Tizzoni and Collins (1901) stated that the toxin of
tetanus “ contains two toxins, one of which acts Specially
if it is administered subcutaneously, and produces con-
vulsions, while the second becomes prominent in case
of intravenous injection, giving rise to local tonic
spasms.”17

When in the manufacture of antitoxin the virus of
tetanus is injected in gradually increasing doses into the
blood-stream of horses, it seems to be assumed that anti-
bodies to both toxins are simultaneously formed, but
there is no scientiﬁc evidence of this.

Sir Almroth Wright goes so far as to say that “ the
serum may, on the contrary, contain practically un-

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

25

altered, the identical bacterial poisons which were
originally incorporated into the horses,” so that, as he
explains, it may, instead of conveying antitoxin to the
body, “ actually introduce in a virulent and disease
fostering condition, the very poison for which a neutral-
ising agent is sought. ’ ’ 18

There are grounds, therefore, for believing that the
local spasm-producing toxin is actually inoculated with
the prophylactic. In the ordinary healthy constitution
its presence in small quantity would not be sufﬁcient to
cause any symptoms, but the shock induced by wounds,
together with exposure and concurrent sepsis, would in
many cases, as those familiar with the sero~chemical
theories of Dr. J. E. R. McDonagh will readily under-
stand, provide conditions in which the effects of the toxin
would become manifest.

We are confronted, therefore, with this extraordinary
position of affairs, namely, that the claims made on
behalf of a prophylactic to reduce the fatality of a disease
owe much of their force to the fact that the remedy
itself creates a mild form of the disease which is never
fatal, and hence, by increasing the number of non-fatal
case, automatically lowers the percentage fatality.

The reader may well feel some surprise or even
incredulity at the foregoing account of antitoxin treat-
ment, which, Viewed in this light, appears to be little
better than a fraud. He may, however, become re-
assured if I can convince him that I am not by any
means alone in my criticisms, but on the contrary am
able in support of them to appeal to the writings of
authorities of no less distinction than Sir William Leish—
man, Major Smallman and Sir David Bruce.

Writing in the Lancet of January 27th, 1917 (p. 131),
the two former allow that “ there exist wide differences
of View both as to the usefulness of antitoxin at all, and
admitting its value, as to the system of its employment.”
Referring to a case mortality of 78.2 per cent. in hospltals
in France, they admit “ this, as far .as it goes, does not
disclose any considerable degree of improvement in the
treatment employed.” (i.e., the routine InjeCthIl of anti—
toxin.)

 




26

Sir David Bruce, in an article which appeared in the
Lancet for December 2nd, 1916, reported on 77 cases of
tetanus known to have received a primary prophylactic
injection of serum in France, of whom 35 (or 42.8 per
cent.) died. He gave many ﬁgures showing that the
serum neither protects from tetanus nor mitigates the
disease when used as a curative agent, and he concludes

as follows: _

“ The matter must, therefore, be left in the same unsatis-
factory position as last year, when it was stated ‘ the main
conclusion to be drawn from a study of these cases of tetanus
treated therapeutically by antitetanic serum is that it seems
to be highly probable that the serum has little or no effect
on the course of the disease.” (1). 931)

ROUTE OF INJECTION: CONTRADICTORY
EXPERIENCE

As examples of the contradictions which beset What
Sir David Bruce terms “ this extremely obscure question
of serum therapy,” I would place side by side the
opinions of the War Ofﬁce Committee, of Sir William
Leishman and Major Smallman, and, thirdly, of Sir David
Bruce on the important question as to the best method
and route for injecting the serum.

(1) According to the Brit. Med. four. (July let, 1917,
p. 89), the War Ofﬁce Committee “ now states still more
emphatically than before its opinion that in acute general
tetanus the best method of treatment lies in the adminis-
tration of large doses of antitoxin serum by the intra-
thecal route . . . ” (i.e., into spinal canal)

(2) Writing in the Lancet (January 27th, 1917,
p. 131), Sir William Leishman and Major Smallman
assert: “ As to the intrathecal route . . . the study of
our own cases has not impressed us favourably . . . the
evidence is pretty strongly against its employment . . .
the method appears to possess some very deﬁnite dis-
advantages and dangers . . . . In at least one case
death followed rapidly upon a thecal dose when the
patient was said to have been progressing favourably.”

(3) Sir David Bruce, after reviewing the cases (quoted-

 

 




 

 

 

27

earlier in this article) which showed the highest mortality
to occur among those injected intrathecally, complains
somewhat bitterly in the Lancet of June 30th, 1917
(p. 988) :—

“ Last year (1915-16) the difference was in favour of
the intrathecal route. Now the opposite is true.”

It is signiﬁcant to note that the use of the intrathecal
method of inoculation was based primarily upon the
results of Prof. C. S. Sherrington’s experiments on
animals, and especially upon a series of tests which he
carried out on upwards of 100 monkeys at Oxford. The
following table from The Oﬁicial History of the War
(Pathology) epitomises the results:—

Route of admin-

istration of anti- N 0. of
toxin. animals used Recoveries Deaths

Subcutaneous 25 2 23
Intramuscular 25 3 22
Intravenous ... 25 7 18
Lumbar subdural 25 14 11
Bulbar subdural... 2O 13 . 7
Cerebral subdural 10 0 10

Total 130 39 91

“ These experiments convinced the Committee (War
Ofﬁce) of the superiority of the intrathecal route.”

. 207
(pThus)we see clearly exempliﬁed the danger and futility
of attempting to argue by analogy from the results of
experiments on animals; one would have thought that the
variation in reaction among different species of animals
would of themselves have been sufﬁcient to cause mis-
givings in the minds of the experimenters. It is certaln
that in no other ﬁeld of research except that of medicme

would such data be accepted as being of any scientiﬁc
value.

VARIABILITY AMONG ANIMALS

We ﬁnd it stated in A System of Bacteriology (p. 308)
that: “ the susceptibility of the“. common laboratory

 

 




 

28

animals differs considerably . . . and varies with the
age of the animal——the younger are more susceptible——
and with the route of inoculation.” The following table
shows the relative amount of toxin required to kill each
animal per unit of weight. .

Horse 1, Guinea-pig 2, Monkey 3, Mouse 4, Goat 6, Rabbit
24, Dog 300, Cat 2,400.

The incubation period also varies considerably, from
8 to 12 hours in a mouse to 5 days in a horse.

It is probably partly owing to its peculiar susceptibility
to the poison that the horse is chosen as the animal to
be used for the manufacture of the antitoxin serum.

The conﬁdent claims made on behalf of the serum,
which are inspired by the commercial interests of the
ﬁrms which proﬁt by its manufacture, assume a some—
what different aspect when it is realised on what slender
foundations they are based, and are indeed in marked
contrast to the more modest confessions of the same
medical authorities when expressing their opinions in the
pages of medical text-books; for in A System of Bacteria-
logy (1929) we ﬁnd Drs. R. A. O’Brien and A. T. Glenny
stating: “ The principles underlying the production of
toxins and immunization of horses are not yet deﬁned
with precision.” (Vol. III, p. 353)

This statement, implying as it does that after all these
years of experiment the very principles upon which the
use of anti-toxin has been based are still nebulous and
little understood, provides a striking conﬁrmation of the
truth of Sir Almroth Wright’s assertion regarding the
whole of the theory of Serum Therapy, namely, that it
rested “ upon a foundation of sand.”11

The explanation of the numerous discrepancies which
emerge when we come to deal with tetanus in man is
doubtless partly to be found in the admission by the
author of the article: on gas-gangrene in the same work,
that “ No inoculation made either with wound exudate
or with pure untreated cultures is a repetition of a natural
infection.’ ’

“ In experimental inoculation where the complete

 




 

 

 

 

 

29

culture is used, actively growing organisms, preformed
toxins and other bacterial growth products are also
injected into the animal. . . . In natural infections . . .
the process is different.”

No further arguments could make clearer the useless
and unscientiﬁc nature of the experimental methods of
the laboratory; the pity of it is that in addition to leading
medical thought into the chaotic condition of stagnation
in which it now ﬂounders, it has diverted the energies
of so many workers from fruitful channels of knowledge
regarding the nature and cure of disease.

THE COMMON FACTOR OF PAIN

There appears to be one undisputed similarity, how-
ever, between the effects of tetanus toxin on animals and

ose on man, and that is their extremely painful nature.

Drs. Bosanquet and Eyre write in their well-known
text-book regarding the effect of tetanus toxins on
animals:

“ lnjectiohs into the spinal card are followed by
agomsmg pains, referred to a part of the body corres—
ponding with the site of inoculation.”19

We may read, too, in A System of Bacteriology that as
as result of intracerebral inoculation of tetanus:—

“ In 8 to 12 hours after inoculation into the substance of
the brain of a quantity of toxin much less than the M.L.D.,
the rabbit becomes highly restless and jumps about in its
cage as though in fear. Out of its cage, it stands on tiptoe
and rushes about, colliding with obstacles and hiding in
corners. . . . It is then attacked with epileptiform convulsions
from which it recovers at short intervals. In acute cases death
occurs in 12 to 20 hours, but a chronic form exists in which
death is delayed for 14 days, with much wasting. Permin
(1914) produced the same conditions by inoculating into the
vitreous (eye).” (Vol. III, p. 313).

Any attempt to justify such revolting cruelty as must
be entailed in these experiments on the ground that the
latter are necessary to the prosecution of really sc1ent1fic
research must be accounted by all th1nk1ng people a
confession of intellectual bankruptcy and moral atrophy.

The avenues of knowledge are so vast that to maln-

 




 

30

tain that one avenue alone, and that one which involves
incalculable suffering to other living things, is likely to
lead to knowledge essential to human health and
happiness, is to exhibit a condition of mind little removed
from a pathological obsession.

The tragic results of such an attitude are seen not least
in the neglect of research in other directions which there
is every reason to believe would prove more fruitful.

For those whose minds lead them to seek adequate
causes for such an apparently irrational state of affairs
we must consider shortly the question of the commercial
manufacture of anti-tetanic serum.

THE COMMERCIAL INCENTIVE

Whatever may be said regarding the alleged enjoyment
of horses which are used for producing diphtheria anti-
toxin, there can be no doubt of the unpleasant results
which accompany the immunization of horses in the
manufacture of the anti-tetanic serum. We read in A
System of Bacteriology (Vol. III, p. 355) that

“long experience has shown that when toxin alone is used
for immunlzation, many horses are killed notwrthstanding very
cautious increase of dosage.”

Owing, too, to the period of the induced immunity
being of very short duration —according to Martindale’s
Extra—Pharmocopoeia (17th Ed., p. 879) “ protection is
a matter of weeks or months at the most ”—the injections
have to be constantly repeated.

However, we can well understand that in spite of these
difﬁculties the process is a source of immense proﬁt to
the manufacturing chemists, for we learn that:
“ Wadsworth (1927) gives the detailed record of a horse
which in 9 years gave 161 bleedings of about 8 litres.”2°
Now the retail price of anti~tetanic serum is eighteen
pence and upwards per vial of 2cc. At the very lowest
estimate, therefore, the selling value of the serum ob-
tained from a single horse, which could doubtless be
purchased for about £10 to £15, is in the neighbourhood
of £48,300—a ﬁgure which no one will deny allows quite
a respectable margin of proﬁt.

 

 

 




 

 

 

31

On the basis of the ﬁgures given in The Oﬁicial History
of the War, the number of doses issued to the British
troops must have well exceeded six millions.

Since many of these doses were 3 or 4 times as large
as the minimal dose of 500 units given for prophylaxis
and were often repeated, it would be a reasonable
estimate to put the cost of anti—tetanic serum during the
Great War in the British Army alone at One Million
Pounds. (Burroughs Wellcome & Co.’s price-list gives
1 / 9 to 20 /- as the cost per dose, according to the number
of units of antitoxin contained.)

Of recent years it has become customary to give Very
much larger doses, ranging from a routine injection of
100,000 (U.S.A.) units, to as many as 1,970,000 units.21
In regard to a case reported in the Daily Herald (April
3rd, 1936) under the heading ” Life-saving Serum too
Costly,” in which 200,000 units of anti—tetanus serum
had been injected without success, a doctor stated that
the cost of the serum would be about £12 105.

It should be remembered that it is now the practice in
nearly all Hospitals receiving accident cases to give a
prophylactic dose of anti-tetanus serum in all cases of
road accident, and of injuries involving contamination
of the wound with soil.

We need see no cause for wonder, then, in the state-
ment in the Medical World recently that in Paris the
foundation bursaries of the Faculty of Medicine “ are a.
favourite outlet for the benevolence of drug manufac-
turers ”22; the generous contributions of Dr. Wellcome
and others to medical research laboratories and institutes
are no doubt a splendid investment, for the young
medical students, trained in the orthodox schools of
Serum Therapy by the type of teacher who, in the words
of the late Sir James MacKenzie, “ in the absence of
any knowledge acquired from the results of his own
observation . . . is forced to teach that which he was
himself taught,” can be relied upon to be enthusiastic
supporters of serum treatment when they emerge into
practice.

 




32

Thus commercial greed is served at the cost of rational
treatment, and science becomes the bond—slave of proﬁt-
making manufacturers who feel no scruples in using to
the utmost the credulity of a profession which blindly
accepts as scientiﬁc any form of research that bears the
current hall—mark of animal experimentation, especially
when endorsed by a “ reliable ” ﬁrm.

Meanwhile the exploitation of the animal kingdom,
whose rights are contemptuously ignored both by com-
mercialism and the medical profession it has so cunningly
enthralled, leads the art of healing into an ever deepening
morass of contradiction and failure, and bars the way
to that Science of Medicine which shall discover Truth
because it has ﬁrst learnt reverence and compassion for
all that lives.

REFERENCES

1 Quoted in “ The Beloved Physician ” ; Dr. MacNair Wilson.
2 The Times, Nov. 27th, 1931.
3 Serums, Vaccines and Toxins, Bosanquet and Eyre (1916),

p. 140. A System of Bacteriology in Relation to
Medicine (H.M. Stationery Ofﬁce, 1929) Vol. III, p. 307.
4 The Medical World, Aug. 30th, 1935, p. 15.
5 The Official History of the War (Patholc y), p. 181.
6 The Lancet, Jan. 27th, 1917, p. 139.
7 British Med. ]our., Jan. 27th, 1917, p. 118.
8 The Lancet, Jan. 27th, 1917, p. 133.
9 Brit. Med. ]0ur., March 20th, 1915, p. 529.
10 The Lancet, June 30th, 1917, p. 988.
11 Studies on Immunization, (1909), p. 302.
12 The Lancet, Nov. 11th, 1916, p. 833.
13 The Official History of the War (Pathology), p. 205.
14 Ibid, pp. 203—4.
15 The Lancet, Jan. 27th, 1917, p. 139.
16 The Franco~British Review, May, 1932, p. 125.
17 Serums, Vaccines and Toxins, Bosanquet and Eyre (1916),
p. 141.
18 Studies on Immunization (1909), p. 306.
19 Serums, Vaccines and Toxins, lst Edition (1904), p. 104
(omitted from later editions).
20 A System of Bacteriology (1929), Vol. III, p. 356.
21 Vaccine and Serum Therapy, Parke, Davis and Co., 1935,
p. 216.
22 The Medical World, Dec., 25th, 1931, p. 364.

 

WM. w. TAYLOR o: SONS. 1.113., PRINTERS. 172. YORK ROAD, KING'S CROSS, N.I

 




