Excerpts From Press Notices and Com-

ments by Educators

A Manual of Moral

and Humane Education

By FLORA HELM KRAUSE.
OF ‘

The Chicago Anti-Cruelty Society
I55 W. Indiana Street.

Publishers: R. R. Donneliey 8: Sons Co.

A large humane idea dominates the book;
the author endeavors to remove the baleful
prejudices which exist between race and race,
class and class, and the contempt or indifference
felt by men toward their furred and feathered
brothers of the field and the air.

“Heart Education,” writes Mrs. Krause, “or
humane education—they are identical—is based
on the recognition that the spirit of life is uni-
versal, and the form it takes, whether white or
black, Jew or Gentile, Protestant or Catholic,
aristocrat or commoner, human or dumb, varies
not in kind but in expression or degree.” * * *

By the means of nature study, civics, and art,
Mrs. Krause hopes to awaken in the mind of
the young student in the elementary schools
some understanding of the unity of all created
life. She hopes to rescue him from his selﬁsh
isolation, ‘his parochial habits of mind, and to
induce him to feel his brotherhood with all the

1

 




 

creatures who share with him the privilege of
walking beneath the sun. * * * He is made
aware of how others 1ive,and of what happens
to the humbler creatures whose lives are sacri—
ﬁced for his convenience. The windows of his
soul are to be opened, the author hopes, by her
beneﬁcent plan of education. The work is pre-
pared in pedagogical fashion, and the list of
collateral reading is practically complete. A
brief outline for high school work is included,
and the useful volume is supplemented with a
brief history of the anti—cruelty movement.
* * * The highest motives underline the prep—
aration of this volume and there can be no ques-
tion that young folk fed upon food of this sort
will ﬁnd themselves possessed of mellow minds
and tender hearts—The Chicago Daily Tribune,
November 11th, 1910.

This book presents the subject of humane edu-
cation in an attractive light. It shows why it
should become a part of the public school cur-
riculum. It gives a graded course of study in
the subject for elementary schools. It gives
suitable exercises for each and every month of
the year; a classiﬁed list of the more common
birds; topics for written work in humane educa-
tion for both elementary and high schools; sug—
gestions .to teachers; a brief survey of the
growth of the movement; a review of the child-
saving work, etc. It is packed from cover to
cover with material that can be used in every
school. The full page illustrations, of which
there are many, are of a high order. It is a‘
book that should be found on every teacher’s
desk—Education, Boston, November, 1910.

This book ﬁlls a need which has long been
felt by the schools of America. Various states
are falling into line, requiring the teaching of
humane education, and this book presents the
course ready—made. * * * The book is aptly
illustrated with the famous Perry pictures of
animals, birds, and childhood. It is truly abook
indispensable for teachers and parents, but a

.4 '5. .
2 l)" ‘ ‘ A f ‘i’
"-:r . 1‘ : .
W .31 3‘ 1‘ \7‘»
.z

. 1 .2“. 1} a x a. c
‘ ,r _ . «m. «a ”air 4 ”I : —- . ' 4.1; ., .
ain‘t-I. ‘2: 1! I, If}, {t R,“ % If? ,_ - 1 -— f. _ .5 . t1.

,. F
, . f . .-’ I ‘
«,Qr“‘ ' 3 f ,f A“; '3’. !

 




 

 

book for all of us as well—Journal of Educa-
tion, Boston, October 20th, 1910.

The general make-up and typographical ap-
pearance of this “Manual” at once predisposes
the reader in its favor. It bears the imprint of
a well—known house, and its clearly-arranged
pages are relieved by twenty-four handsome in—
serts of the Perry pictures of Boston. Two
pages of drawings, representing insects and bac-
terial germs, complete the illustrations. * * *
The last nine chapters of the book form an
appendix and cover a variety of subjects. One
of the most practical is a classiﬁed list of the
more common birds. A very serviceable com-
pilation under the head of collateral reading
includes a list of books and stories, a very com-
plete directory of domestic and foreign period-
icals, a list of leaﬂets issued by the principal
humane societies, and a valuable classiﬁed ref—
erence list of magazine articles.

Chapter IV. includes the main part of the
work, and it is in the merits of the one hundred
and sixty—ﬁve pages of “Graded Course of Study
for Humane Education in Elementary Schools”
that Mrs. Krause’s book will be judged. The
main divisions are of months, from September
to June. Each month is then subdivided into
grades, from the ﬁrst to the eighth. Each grade
is then treated under four heads, “Nature
Study,” “Civics,” “Art,” and “Literature
These exact divisions are an illustration of one
merit which the book possesses to an unusual
degree—order. Everything is carefully classiﬁed,
everything is perfectly clear. * * * With this
“Manual” in hand, the Illinois school teacher "
will ﬁnd plenty of suggestion to ﬁll up the
weekly half—hour which the law obliges her to
devote to humane education. Others who are
looking for a real textbook on this theme will
not lightly pass over Chapter IV., which, how—
ever simple it may appear, must represent long
hours of careful thought and judicious selections
in its preparation—Our Dumb Animals, Boston,
October, 1910.

3

 

 




 

Mrs. Krause was awarded the Sprague Memo-
rial gold medal by the American Humane Asso—
ciation for the best essay on Humane Educa-
tion, and is one of the best and most favorably
known women in education. Her personal
work as well as the products of her pen have
been potent factors in the progress of humane
culture. Her book is a labor of love and an
indispensable volume for teachers, parents, and
humanitarians.——The World’s Chronicle, Chi-
cago, November 12th, 1910.

Mrs. Krause has spared neither time nor
money in the production of her “Manual of
Moral and Humane Education,” which is a
classic and which embodies only the best avail-
able material. So skillfully and artistically has
the book been executed that it is truly entitled
to be called a masterpiece in this particular ﬁeld.

From time to time excellent books and com—
pilations of useful stories and poems have ap-
peared in response to a growing demand for
material to be used in humane education, but
hitherto there has been nothing that educators
could follow as a day to day or week to week
outline, and which embodies the entire ﬁeld for
each grade, including the high schools, and
makes of it one harmonious whole which ex-
actly ﬁts the school year, is adapted to the sea—
sons of the year, and which may be taught
scientiﬁcally and without duplication.

Each lesson has been planned with a three-
fold avenue of approach—that of nature study
and personal observation, that of civic and com-
munity usefulness, and that of artistic and
aesthetic culture through the best that literature
and art has to offer. The National Humane
Journal, Chicago, August, 1910.

Flora Helm Krause * * * insists upon
the developing of a sense of justice in children;
she urges the necessity of teaching, from the
very cradle, gentleness, consideration, charity to
man and beast alike.

A system of teaching applicable to schools
4




C"

 

and arranged to ﬁt the changing seasons is out—
lined; a course of reading and study is given,
and the work is illustrated with splendid repro-
ductions of famous pictures calculated to stir
the beholden—The Chicago .Record-Herald,
November 22nd, 1910.

The book is almost ideal in its make—up of
perfect classiﬁcation, clear type, and beautiful
illustrations from the Perry pictures of Boston,
and is called by the critics a “masterpiece in its
particular ﬁeld.”—The Daily Whig, Quincy, 111.,
November 6th, 1910.

The illustrations are beautiful reproductions of
masterpieces, and should aid materially in teach-
ing art to the children. The poetry quoted is
suitable for each respective grade, and is from
the best authors. We feel that we cannot too
highly commend this delightful and ennobling
book—Rocky M oantam Educator, Denver, Colo.,
April, 1911.

That children should be taught to have regard
to their little brothers, the birds, and their
cousins, the animals of the ﬁeld, is the opinion
of Flora Helm Krause, who, for many years,
taught in the public schools of Chicago, and
who now is devoting herself to an anti-cruelty
crusade. She has prepared “A Manual of Moral
and Humane Education,” which is well and
delightfully adapted to the use of children and
young folk in high school.

By means of little lessons in natural science,
by quotations from prose writings and the use
of poems and pictures, Mrs. Krause has pre-
pared a large amount of material calculated to.
make the student feel his relation to the world
about him. This material is well classiﬁed, and
to this unique textbook of universal love are
appended nine chapters, each of which will lead
the enthusiast on to a wider understanding of
life and fellowship—The Derlmeator, New York,
June, 1911.

 




 

 

Extracts From Letters of Educators:

“I thank you for the privilege of reading your
beautiful ‘Manual of Moral and Humane Edu-
cation.’ You have done a ﬁne piece of work
and one that has been greatly needed. The
mechanical and artistic make-up of the' book
seem to me to leave nothing to be desired in
that way, but it is rather the mission of the
’ book that appeals to me. It ought to be' in every
public school at least as supplementary work
if not in the regular curriculum, and I would
say also that it ought to be in every well ordered
Sunday School library where, both by direct and
indirect inﬂuence, it might inculcate a true love
and respect for the beautiful and useful crea—
tures which God has made for us, but not to
abuse nor wantonly destroy.”-——Mr. Wm. W.
Johnstone, Superintendent American Sunday
School Union, Chicago.

“Any teacher who uses your Manual of Moral
and Humane Education with intelligence and
interest must not only inﬂuence her pupils pow—
erfully for good but cannot escape receiving a
liberal moral and humane education herself.”—
Mr. E. K. Whitehead, Secretary, State Bureau
of Child and Animal Protection of Colorado.

“I am in receipt today of the copy of your
Manual of Moral and Humane Education, sent
me on approval. A hasty glance at the book
indicates that it should ﬁll a very necessary
place in the schools. The material is well and
carefully selected and the mechanical and pic-
torial features of the book are most excellent.
You have rendered a distinct service to the
schools of Illinois and have materially assisted
in carrying out the provisions of the moral and
humane law.”——-Mr. S. H. Bohn, Superintend-
ent of Schools, Centralia, Ill.

“1 think a book of this kind, if read and
studied by children, will exert a very great in—
ﬂuence on their lives.”——-Professor C. E. Patze-r,
Milwaukee State Normal School.

6

 

g’v—

Aﬁ,.__ A Wﬂwhwv




 

 

“Your ‘Manual of Moral and Humane Edu—
cation’ is a very timely volume. It is rich in its
substance, and richer still in its suggestions.
Its illustrations make it a book of art; its poems
and prose selections are superb and every direc
tion is valuable. A mere glance at it should
convince teachers that it is a necessary part of
their equipment.”-—-Dr.A. F. Niglz-t'iII-zgale, Super-
intendent of Cool: County Schools.

“To Mrs. Flora Helm Krause, whose ‘Manual
of Moral and Humane Education’——the pioneer
scientiﬁcally arranged book for school use upon
the subject—revealsa heart fullof tender sweet—
ness towards all God’s creation, and an earnest
desire that all forms of cruelty should cease,
and that in their places there should be the
fullest exercise of that practical affection that
will make happiness and content the normal
condition of every living creature.

7 With earnest prayers that this Manual may
-have the widest possible circulation, and that it
may be only the beginning of a larger work
that its accomplished author will yet render to
the world.”—Pr0fessor George Whartonfames,
author of “The Story of Scraggles,” “In and
Out of the Old Missions of California,” etc. -

Resolution passed April 23rd, 1911:

We, your committee on the recommendation
of valuable books on Humane Education, beg to
submit the following resolution: “That the
State Humane Association of California recog—
nize the very great merit of ‘The Manual of
Moral and Humane Education’ by Flora Helm
Krause, and, believing it to be a book most
helpful to all leaders of our children and young
people, we urge for it the widest possible distri-
bution in the state.”

Committee:
Mrs. E. W. Brooks,
Professor George Wharton James,
Professor .7. Z. Gilbert.

7

 




.........., 9,.

The following publications have, 3180,, reviewed
the book:

Journal of Zoopln'ly, Plﬁagelphm, Ifnuaiy,
1911.

The Union S1911al Evanston :January,
1911. ”

Improvement Club News“: @hrcago,mjan1lary,
1911.

. E H;- r" g“. r“: w», ,

The Daily News, ChicaootFehruary 17th,1911.
Bird Lore, New York, January- -February, 1911.

Chuago Evening Post, Chicago, February 24,
1911.

Bulletin of The American 5. P. C. A, New’
York, March, 1911.

Normal Instructor, Dansville, N. Y., April,
1911.

Saturday Spectator, Terre Haute, Ind., No-
vember 26th, 1910.

The book has been placed on the American
Library Association list, and has been ordered
by the public libraries of Boston, New York,
Brooklyn, Washington, Cincinnati, Cleveland,
St. Louis, Chicago, Denver, Los Angeles, San
Francisco, Portland, and those of intervening
smaller cities.

It is commended for, its excellency by Mrs.
Ella Flagg Young, Superintendent of Chicago
. Schools, and Francis G. Blair, State Superin-
tendent of Illinois; it has been placed by the
Chicago Board of Education on the ofﬁcial
library list, December 28th, 1910, and on the
ofﬁcial supplementary list, May 3lst, 1911; and it
has had a wide distribution in the schools of
other cities and states, including the American.
Schools of Turkey.

Price: Single copies, $1.25, plus 13 cents
postage; discount on large orders.

. 8

 




