Leaﬂet No. 85.

PRACTICAL HUMANE WORK FOR THE HORSE

BY OSCAR A. TROUNSTINE, CINCINNATI, OHIO.
Executive Ofﬁcer The Ohio Humane Society

[Portion of paper presented before The American Humane Association,
October 2, 1911, at San Francisco, California]

“ There is some mystic free—masonry by which animals seem to
know their friends. It is foolish, brutal and inhuman to attempt
to whip an idea into a horse. It cannot be done, and pray remember
that there is every provision, the world over, for the suffering of
our race, and but little for the patient, faithful, speechless servants
who devote their lives to us.”

In Cincinnati we distribute by mail and have for sale, without
proﬁt of course, what we term Folders, in order to better the con—
ditions of existence of our domestic animal. These folders are
entitled, “PLEASE BE KIND TO US—WE WORK HARD
FOR YOU” and “A PLEA FOR KINDNESS,” the former re—l
lating to horses and the latter to dogs.

The horse—folder tells the story of a big team, a mighty load,
and a long hill. The teamster was brawny and strong and had a
kind face and he knew his business. And he was on to his job.
'And it tells how the faithful horse works to his dying day for
his BOARD.

Then with a little good advice we follow with a copy of the
horse’s prayer, and conclude by saying “ Please don’t feel that this
little talk is an interference with your business. It isn’t. You
are as interested in humane treatment as we can be, and it means
more to you, for if you are a driver, it will increase your efﬁciency,
and if you are an owner, it will increase the value of your animals.”

JUST BE KIND—IT PAYS -

Believing that down in the heart of nearly every man there is
.some kindness, and a sense of justice, we send this letter: “ We
are enclosing a little educational talk to owners and drivers. We
know that you are interested in the proper treatment of animals
and we feel sure that you will co-operate in any move that makes
for an improvement of their condition. We will appreciate it,
if you will give out the folders, such as we enclose, to all those
who come in contact with the horses, in your employ. We also
suggest that you place one in every package of merchandise as it
is wrapped.

“ Because we believe you are interested in doing good, as inter—
ested as we can be, we ask you to read the accompanying printed
matter, as well as this letter and then ACT. We suggest that on
every piece of literature you send out, now and for many years
to come, you put in some place, no matter how brieﬂy, an appeal
for the humane treatment of horses. You know the need of it.
YOu know that every day, all over this big land, horses by the
hundreds of thousands a1e starved, overworked, beaten, kicked and
clubbed and uncared for.

“ If you will stop to think of it you will realize that only an
educational campaign will remedy this awful evil.

I

 




 

“The business men of this country can reach the entire popula-
tion, and reach it repeatedly. By means of a bit of space on letter-
heads, cards, envelopes, in catalogues, and booklets, pungent words
can be thrust before every eye, for the horse. The men who are
cruel and thoughtless can be reached. The rising generation can
be educated. The possibilities are limitless.

“ Here is a crusade that will result in better horses, better drivers.
It will give you more work out of your horses. And it will comfort
your conscience.

“All of us feel better when we can give an impetus to a move
that is wise and humane and kind. And the crusade will offend
no one. Even the brute who lashes his horse will admit that the
animal deserves kindness. If you have any ideas tO- suggest in
connection with the work, we would be grateful for them. Will
you please tell us what you think of the plan and may we count
on your co—Operation, not for a month, not for a year, but in-
deﬁnitely?

Signed, THE OHIO HUMANE SOCIETY.”

We use in Cincinnati this publicity plan, by printing upon all our
stationery, this slogan:
A square deal for the horse.

We believe every horse deserves three ample meals daily; plenty
of pure water; proper shoes; a blanket in cold weather; two weeks
vacation annually.

HORSE VACATIONS

This is what one ﬁrm says about it in its advertising columns:
“ We have one hob-by outside of music, it is the humane society.
And I refuse to be in an interview if there can’t be placed there
a plea for vacations for horses all over the land. We want to see
the whips laid away, the age of cruelty to dumb brutes past and
kindness rule the world. It’s got to come if the human scheme
is to be a success.” This is surely a move in the right direction
and is what I call injecting a little charity into your business.

In the spring of the year we send out this letter: “ In the interest
of humanity and kindness to faithful servants, we are calling your
attention to- what has been named in the public prints, HORSE
VACATIONS. It is a move to secure for hard worked horses
at least TWO WEEKS annually in pasture, free from work of
any kind, and with a sufﬁciency of good food. We believe such
a move is justiﬁed not only on the grounds of humanity, but as
a DIVIDEND INVESTMENT. The horse that is allowed to rest
in pasture will live longer and do more work and keep in better
condition than the animal that is denied this treatment. Are you
interested? Can you offer any suggestions? Will you agree to
send one or more of your horses to pasture for the two weeks’
period? If so, will you kindly ﬁll out the card enclosed, and mail
it to us? Your act may inﬂuence some other person to do the
same. We have the names of several owners of pastures on ﬁle
in our Ofﬁce. One of our Directors started this worthy movement
years ago. Surely you could do the same.

This letter was mailed to Cab, Express, Ice and Coal Companies,
Undertakers, Contractors, Department Stores, Breweries, Grocers,
Bakers, Packing Houses and to all stables. The replies were numer—
ous and favorable and many establishments that had not done so
before, have promised to follow our suggestion in the future.

2

 

 




Might I say that for the ﬁrst time in the history of the police
department of Cincinnati, the faithful horses that dray the patrol
wagons and carry the mounted men will be considered along with
their masters as worthy of summer vacations. They will receive
four weeks rest.

 

CARDS

A card having four horse heads placed above these words and
displayed upon kitchen (loo-rs, acts as a gentle persuader to the
delivery man to be kind:

Please give us water often.

Please give us a moment's rest on the way up‘ the hill.

Please do notoverload us, we are doing our best.

Please don’t use the whip, it is seldom necessary.

Please remember that we will respond to a word as quickly as
to a blow.

Please look out for our health and don’t work us when we are
sick.

Please see that we are properly shod.

Please be sure that we have enough to eat and that we are fed
regularly.

Please keep us in such good condition that you will be proud
to- drive us. .

Please see that the harness ﬁts and does not chafe sore or tender
spots.

Please remember that two weeks vacation each year will make us
more serviceable, and valuable.

REMEMBER, WE WORK HARD FOR YOU!

In hot weather we print large placards, which we post in public
places, and I am pleased to state that some of the largest corpora~
tions gave us permission to place them in their factory buildings;
the posters reading,

The weather is getting hot.
Remember your poor horse.
Give him plenty of time.
And water him often.

And we send these postals reading:

“ HOT WEATHER HINTS ”

“ Drive slowly, especially when on a long journey. Load lightly.
Kindness will make your horses work more willingly than the long—
est whip. Rest your horses frequently. Feed lightly in the middle
of- the day; do not feed at any time if the horse is blowing.

“ Water frequently and allow only a small drink each time; this
will save you trouble. Remove the bit before the horse drinks.
Use your own pails to prevent spread of disease. .

“Drivers of teams three—abreast should watch the middle horse,
as he is mostly likely to become overheated.

“ If your horse become-s overheated remove all harness, stand in
shade, bathe poll with coldest water you can obtain and give one
ounce' of sweet spirits of nitre in half a pail of water.

“ For colic, put one quart of warm water in a bottle, add two
tablespoonfuls of baking soda. Shake well. Hold horse’s head
high and pour down throat.” _

Large pictures showing the evil of the check—rein are conspicu-
ously placed'upon the front of our ofﬁce building and cause no
end of favOrable comment.

 

3.

 

 




 

3

Our posters, “ How to shoot animals humanely,’ are given freely
to all asking for them and are prominently placed in all our police
stations.

’ LAWS AND WORKING

In Ohio we work under the authority of broad and practical laws
for the protection and relief of abused, neglected and under—fed
animals, and use effective means for the enforcement of these laws,
endeavoring at the same time to prevent violations, assisted by the
very efﬁcient POLICE DEPARTMENT of our city, Whose Chief
issues a Bulletin from headquarters, containing the following, “All
members of the police department are instructed, at the request of
The Ohio Humane Society, to see that all horses standing in the
streets are properly blanketed; also to report any other irregularities
in violation of the humane law; also The Ohio Humane Society
requests that heavy laden wagons be given the right of way over
lighter ones in coming up hills. You will see that this request is
complied with. Signed, William H. Jackson, Chief of Police.”
And you may rest assured that these orders are carried out.

In Cincinnati our Mayor and Chief of Police issue a printed
card relating to the “ Right of Way for Fire and Police Depart—
ments; Trafﬁc Rules at Corners for Vehicles; Rules for Driving,”
and through such publicity many accidents to horses are avoided.

In summer we attach to our drinking fountain an ordinary garden
hose with a nozzle that sprays and after the horse is refreshed he
is ready to pull his pound again.

Fire escapes should be provided for horses and in’ new stables
to be built, the animals should not be kept above the ﬁrst floor
and not below the ground. Horses have been sacriﬁced—we know,
and stall room should be 6 X 9 feet in order to allow the horses
to lie down.

FREE CLINIC

Some time ago I received a letter stating that the Cincinnati
Veterinary College conducts a. free clinic where sick and injured
animals may be treated free of charge. In connection we are con-
sidering a plan to establish in Cincinnati a Friendly Inn or Model
Stable for horses.

The stables are intended for the horses of poor peddlers, small
express—men and others of this class who depend for their livelihood
upon the service of a horse, and to Whom it is of vital importance
that their horses are’kept in good condition.

At present, as these poor owners are not able to pay the prices
asked for suitable stabling, they are compelled to put their horses
into ram—shackle stables (which are usually in the rear of build-
ings), where the most wretched conditions prevail. The horses
are stiﬂed in summer and nearly fro-zen in winter, more or less
exposed to the elements, tormented by insects, lacking room to lie
down, and given only scanty rations. It will be seen from the fore—
going brief announcement, that this work is designed to help a
Very hard Working class of poor men as well as usually very hard
worked horses. . '

Here, too, horses Will receive the necessary medicines When sick
—furnished, free—a hospital Will be maintained Where animals will
be cared for by trained attendants. Lectures Will be given entitled,
Haulage by Horses, "treating on the subject of utilizing the strength
or power of the horse, "While hauling, with the least waste of energy,

4




 

showing how he may be given the mechanical advantage over his

.load, and the entire question of hauling, be reduced to scientiﬁc

understanding. Teamsters will be taught harnessing, feeding and
watering, grooming, clipping, blanketing and care of the teeth and
feet and everything pertaining to teaming and 1n this way we

shall hope to defend the defenceless and speak for the speechless

and “lead them to green pastures and still waters.”

We are acquainted with real life, its problems, its temptations,
its necessities. We are seeking to make the world kinder, not
because kindness is beautiful in theory and in fact, but because it
is essential in the development of humanity to a higher plane. To
be humane, to be kind, to be considerate of all other living creatures,
is demanded of each individual for his own sake. The man who
beats his horse does more than injure his own property. He injures
himself. He is possibly a cruel parent. For if he strikes the help-
less animal he may raise his hand against his own offspring. ,

ANIMAL SHOWS

During the exhibition of wild trained animals, a. gentleman was
asked, “Why are you leaving?” “ Why am Ileaving?” he
answered. “Can any self—respecting man who believes in the
superiority of his race, who believes himself above other’animals
of the earth; who believes in right, justice and fair play, sit and
watch the spectacle of his fellow species breaking every law of
justice, degrading themselves beneath the level of the beasts, prac-
ticing tyranny, torture and atrocious barbarity? Can a man witness
such things—things that the brutes themselves would not do—and
then honor and respect his race?”

The reason of this letter is readily seen: “ We occasionally ﬁnd
it necessary to interfere with showmen who exhibit in our theatres,
trained animals. Many of the acts are cruel and while we have
been successful in the local ﬁeld, we have no control after they
leave our city. It was suggested at our last Board Meeting that
we inaugurate a system, whereby all humane societies shall be
promptly notiﬁed from this ofﬁce, we to give details Of said animal
abuses at our local theatres, so that societies all over the country
may be on the lookout for these people, and we believe by this
system we can do much toward correcting abuses of this nature.

“ To cure is the voice of the past; to prevent the divine whisper
of to—day.” ‘

I should like our society to consider drinking fountains for ani-
mals, an electric power ambulance for the removal of horses, a
spreader for a top dressing, on steep grades and slippery pave-
ments, an auto for the use of ofﬁcers, a water—wagon for horses,
more humane streets, taking care of old ﬁre and police horses, the
evil of over-checking, complete prohibition of docking horses’ tails,
the working of horses all day and then sending them out on night
jobs. -

I shall not speak of corrective measures. I am sure you will agree
with me that the better work is instructive. Teaching the ignorant,
developing a sense of responsibility and of shame, appealing to the
best that is in man and crowding aside and eliminating the worst.
It is a long and slow and at time discouraging process, but year by
year and little by little, the world is growing better; a process of
evolution that is being hastened by the inﬂuence of all the workers
in the ﬁeld of humane endeavor.

 

 




THINK IT OVER

All summer through, in a helpless sort of way, I watched them.
building the road that I shall call “The Road of a Thousand 4-
Stripes.’

These men were men of brawn and muscle, men of hard oaths
and rough lives. They were the creatures of their environment.
They were tanned and hair1 , and they were ignorantly cruel.

They brought horses and mules, great clumsy creatures, scarred
and bearing the marks of many a merciless blow.

And so the work began.

There was stone by the thousands of tons to lift, pull, pry, push’
out.

There were plows to force through the stubborn clay ; there were
ﬁlls to make and hills to level. ‘

And the whole story of the building of The Road of a Thousand
Stripes was written in ridges and welts on the hides of the dumb
brutes.

From early morning till the day ended one could hear the sound
of blows and echoing groans. It was “ Go long there,” and a blow K ”2""
“ Get up there, mule! ” and a slash with the great whip. “’“V

That’s the way roads are builded in ten thousand places. Builded
on the suffering of animals. You know it and I know it.

In the days of quivering heat the poor beasts suffered more
deeply. There was no respite, no mercy, no pity—not an atom of
kindness. Not even water.

A horse was made to- use and wear out, to. die and be replaced
by another horse.

It was pathetic, when the day’s work was done, to watch the
procession. No need of drivers to direct these brutes. They
dragged one foot after the other, painfully, carrying their quivering
muscles and tortured ﬂesh to the stable, where there would be
food and at least, rest till the next day’s hell opened.

A new torture was invented. The whip failed to- arouse enough
energy, so these men who were building The Road of a Thousand
Stripes bombarded the animals with rocks and ﬂinty lumps of dirt.
That made them pull harder.

I pray the good God that the day be hastened when invention
shall have wiped out horse labor everywhere.

Some day there will be gay homes along The Road of a Thousand
Stripes. Children will play on the cement walks, and there will be
ﬂowers in the yards, and doves will coo on the roofs. Women
will sing their happiness.

And. a city will give the new street a musical name and people
will say, “ What a peaceful and beautiful place!”

But for me it will always be The Road of a Thousand Stripes.

[Note—Copies of this address, and other humane literature, may be
obtained from The American Humane Association, Albany, N. Y.]

 




