 

 

EXPERIMENTS
ON ANIMALS

VIEWS
, FOR {‘9’ AGAINST

By H. G. WELLS
' and
GEORGE BERNARD SHAW

Reproduced by special permission from the SUNDAY EXPRESS
of july 24th and August 7th, 1927.

Published by
The British Union for Abolition of Vivisection,
32, Charing Cross, London, S.W.l

Price 2d.

 

 

 




 

 

 

The Abolitionist

Organ of the British Union for
Abolition of Vivisection.

Monthly Price Twopence

Contains up-to-date Articles on the Moral
and Scientiﬁc Case against Vivisection.

 

N.B.—The British Union is conspicuous for its fairness
in publishing both sides of the controversy; this pamphlet
is one of several examples.

SAMPLES SENT FREE.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

I

FOR VIVISECTION
By H. G. WELLS

(Mr. H. G. Wells is a regular contributor to toe “ SUNDAY
EXPRES ” ; Mr. G. B. Show it an occasional contributor.
Mr. Welly? article may one of a series wen/2 appeared under the
heading “ T/ee Way toe World is Going ” ; Mr. .37an way awéed
to reply to it, and did so under toe title “ T/Jeoe Scoundrel: ! ”)

 




 

z EXPERIMENTS ON ANIMALS

EXPERIMENTS ON ANIMALS—SOME FANATICAL DELUSIONS
——-“ ANTI-VIVISECTION IS NOT REALLY A CAMPAIGN AGAINST
PAIN AT ALL ”—PET-DOG CRUELTIES.

men’s minds. Nowadays the popularly received
classiﬁcations rarely mean anything at all.

Are you Republican or Democrat, are you Liberal, Labour
or Conservative P The answer tells you only of accidents
of upbringing and circumstance.

Are you a Socialist? “ We are all Socialists nowadays.”
Are you a Christian P Yes and no, or a “ Yes ”—and a
long explanation.

But these other questions are test questions. Fairly put
and fairly answered they reveal the quality—or rather, let
me say, the key and colour—of a mind quite deﬁnitively.
They mean exact things. They show you are this sort of
man or that.

One of these test questions is birth control, because on
your belief whether that is possible and desirable or whether
it is not, hang, logically and necessarily, all your ideas of the
competition of types, peoples, and races, and of the possi-
bility of socialism and world peace.

If you can believe it is possible then world peace is
possible, and if you think it is impossible all talk of world
peace is just sentimental foolishness or a humbugging
preparation for propaganda in the next war.

Another test issue is the question whether the Mass as
performed by a properly qualified priest is or is not the
central fact of Christian religious life. If your answer is
yes, you are a Catholic, and if not, a Protestant.

THERE are some questions that really serve to classify

 




 

 

FOR VI VISECTION ' 5

, TWO KEY ISSUES

All the other points at issue among the different sorts
of Christians are subordinate to that, and you will ﬁnd
that the decisions people make upon them are always more
or less clearly consequent upon that primary decision.
Your attitude towards education will be different, and
towards literature and history.

You will face death differently and pain differently.
Upon a great multitude of the important problems of to-day
you do not know where you are ; you are just maundering
about, until you have thought out and decided clearly in
these two key matters and adjusted your other ideas to them.

A third cardinal issue, not perhaps quite so far-reaching
in its implications as these others, but very far-reaching, is
the question of vivisection. To get your attitude to that
quite clear and settled 1n your mind is———after these other two
——as sound and profitable an enterprise in self-examination
as it is possible to imagine.

What is vivisection P It is a clumsy and misleading name
for experimentation on animals for the sake of the knowledge
to be gained thereby.

It is clumsy and misleading because it means, literally,
“ cutting up alive,” and trails with it to most uninstructed
minds a suggestion of highly sensitive creatures, bound and
helpless, being slowly anatomised to death. This is an idea
naturally repulsive to gentle and kindly spirits, and it puts
an imputation of extreme cruelty on vivisection which warps
the discussion from the outset.

But the larger bulk of experiments upon animals for
scientiﬁc purposes involve no cutting about and very little
pain. Many cause discomfort rather than actual pain.
There may be the prick of an injection and a subsequent
illness.

 




 

 

4 EXPERIMENTS ON ANIMALS

Where there is actual cutting it is nearly always performed
under anaesthetics, and in a considerable proportion of such
cases there is no need for the animal to recover conscious-
ness, and it does not recover consciousness.

Still, a residue of cases remains in which real suffering
is inﬂiCted. Far more pain, terror, and distress is inﬂicted
on the ﬁrst day of pheasant shooting every year, for no
purpose at all except the satisfaction of the guns, upon the
wounded and mutilated birds which escape than is inﬂicted
by all the scientiﬁc investigators in the world vivisecting
for a year.

The lives of “ fancy ” dogs, again, inValid and grotesque
deformations of the canine type, must make an aggregation
of prolonged discomfort beyond all comparison greater
than that of the creatures inoculated by the physiologist.

But such considerations do not release us from the
straight question whether it is right and permissible to cut
even a single animal about, or indeed to hurt any living
creature at all, for the sake of knowledge.

A RESIDUUM OF PAIN

That is what the scientific experimentalist claims to be
free to do, and which the anti-vivisectionists labour strenu—
ously to prevent. There is no denial on the part of the
scientific experimentalist that a certain number of experiments
are painful, and have to be painful, and that they are of a
sort that have to be peformed upon animals of an order of
intelligence that leaves one in no doubt of the reality of the
sufferings inﬂicted.

The large majority of experiments involve no incon-
venience to the creatures tested, but there is this residuum
of admittedly painful cases. It is an amount of suffering




 

FOR VI VIS EC TION 5

inﬁnitesimal in comparison with the gross aggregate of pain
inﬂicted day by day upon sentient creatures by mankind,
but it occurs.

The anti-vivisectionist wants legislation to prevent all
experiment upon living things for the sake of knowledge.
Failing that, he wants to prevent experiment upon dogs in
particular, even when the experiment involves no pain
whatever to the subject.

But you will ﬁnd that the typical anti-vivisectionist is
incapable of believing that an experiment can be painless ;
his imagination is too vivid for any assurance to the contrary.
The idea of living substance cut while it quivers and feels
is too powerful for him.

When the arguments and imaginative appeals to his
agitation are scrutinised it will be found that his objection
is to real or imagined pain, inﬂicted in cold blood to no
matter what beneficial end.

That is what he wants to stop. His propaganda literature
is ﬁlled with assertions that no knowledge of any value
has ever been gained by biological experimentation, but
these preposterous denials of widely known facts are the
natural and habitual exaggerations of controversial literature.

The sound anti-vivisectionist would not rest his case on
any such proposition, for, even if it were true, a single
wonderful discovery to-morrow would upset it again.
Pushed into a corner, he will admit that he does not care
whether the knowledge gained is worth while or not.
He will not have knowledge gained in this fashion.

CARELESS WOMEN

It would be easy to convict the anti-vivisectionist move-
ment of many manifest inconsistencies, but my object here

 




6 EXPERIMENTS ON ANIMALS

is rather to disentangle a fundamental idea than to exhibit
confusions of thought. I want to disentangle what is at
the root of the feelings of the anti-vivisectionist, and not
to score controversial points.

But I must call attention to the marked disregard shown
by the active spirits in this agitation for any sort of experi-
menting with animals, however productive of pain, that
does not produce scientiﬁc results. The world of pet
animals is a world of aimless experimenting with life.

The lives of the “ pets ” of careless women are for the
most part remarkable histories of wrong and excessive
feeding and ﬁtful fussing and negligence, and these creatures
are themselves, in many of their varieties, products of a
ruthlessly dysgenic breeding industryrwhich sacriﬁces vigour
and vitality to minuteness, quaintness, and delicious ugliness,
but the anti-vivisectionist has never shown the slightest
disposition to couple this ugly trade in animal deformity
with the pursuit of scientiﬁc research.

Nor does he Show any animus against the importation
of little monkeys and suchlike small attractive beasts,
dragged from their natural environment to die en raw? or
perish miserably but “ amusingly ”in uncongenial and often
terrifying surroundings. Indeed, a large part of the social
and ﬁnancial support of anti-vivisection seems to come from
just the sort of people who sustain the breeders and procurers
of animals for “ petting.”

But very probably the toy~dog lover does not realise the
biological abomination of these practices. In his disregard
of possible pain and discomfort in one case and in his
exaggeration of pain and discomfort in the other, we ﬁnd
the clue to the fundamental issue of this controversy.

The pet is to him a dear little thing, and its incessant
struggles to breathe with its pug nose are considered to be
funny; its ﬁtful appetite is interpreted as fastidiousness ;
its manifest ill—health is “ delicacy ”; if it is constantly

 

 

 

 




 

FOR VIVISECTION 7

washed and combed it does not smell and it is a sweet
creature; its abject physical dependence on its owner, its-
terror and hatred of the world beyond the proprietary aura,
is very ﬂattering and easily interpreted as love.

There is the same disinclination to see the realities in
the case of the pet dog as in the case of the dog in the hands
of the experimentalist, but the disinclination is set at a
different angle.

The former leads a life of general discomfort, but it is
necessary for the pet-owning and pet-protecting type to
think of 1t as exquisitely indulged , the latter may not suffer
in the slighteSt degree, and may show the friendliest feelings
to the man who has made it a contributor to science or may
jump on the table eagerly for the injection that is followed
by a pat and a titbit of food, but it has to be regarded as
being thrillingly and outrageously tormented.

DOCTORS’ VIEWS

These, however, are honest delusions, the outcome of a
peculiar mental make—up, and the anti-vivisectionist is not
to be charged with wilful inconsistency. His or her—it is
more commonly her—intention is to prevent and forbid the
inﬂiction in cold blood and for a scientiﬁc end of anything
that looks like pain on any animal that can be imagined to
suffer. .

The hatred is not against pain as such; it is against
pain inflicted for knowledge. The medical profession is
massively in support of vivisection, and its testimony is that
the knowledge derived from vivisection has made possible
the successful treatment of many cases of human suffering.

So far as we can measure one pain against another, or the
pain of this creature against the pain of that, vivisection

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

8 EXPERIMENTS ON ANIMALS

has diminished the pain of the world very considerably.
But the anti-vivisectionists will hear nothing of that.
They will hear nothing of that because it is not material to
their conception of the case.

The peculiar animus of the anti-vivisectionists is clearly
against the deliberation and the scientiﬁc aim and not against
the pain in itself. The general subjugation of animals to
human ends is not questioned. Many anti-vivisectionists
are, like their pets, carnivorous.

They will leave the abattoir to go on when they have
closed the laboratory; they will recognise the right and
duty of the owner of a big dog to beat his fortunate
possession into good behaviour and keep it short of food
to tame it. They would be indignant if they were refused
the freedom of giving their pets anything to eat that they
fancied—provided always that no scientiﬁc knowledge
ensued from its subsequent reactions. It is the quiet
determination of the clean-handed man with the scalpel
that they cannot endure.

It is not that he is cruel, because manifestly he is not cruel
-—-if he had a lust for cruelty the richly emotional nature
of the anti-vivisectionists would probably understand him
better-——it is because he is not driven by his feelings or
cravings to do what he does, but by a will for abstract
lucidity, that he rouses the antagonism, the violent sense of
difference, in his “ antis.”

Vivisection is only occasionally and incidentally the in-
ﬂiction of pain, and anti-Vivisection is not really a campaign
against pain at all. The real campaign is against the
thrusting of a scientiﬁc probe into mysteries and hidden
things which it is felt should either be approached in a state
of awe, tenderness, excitement, or passion, or else avoided.

It is, we begin to realise, a campaign to protect a world of
fantasy against science, a cherished and necessary world of
fantasy. It is a counter-attack upon a treatment of animals




 

FOR VI VIS EC TI ON 9

that gives the lie to a delightful and elaborated mythology
in which these poor limited creatures are humanised and
have thrust upon them responses, loyalties, and sympathetic
understandings of which they are, in reality, scarcely more
capable than plants.

MONKEYS AND DOGS

The curious, materialistic, shameless, and intelligent
monkey lends itself far less easily than the dog to such
mythological interpretation, and so gets far less consideration
from the anti-vivisectionists. It pulls everything to pieces,
including pleasant fantasies about itself.

But you can tell a dog that it thinks and feels anything
you like, however noble and complex, and it watches
you hopefully and wags its tail. And so it is about the
dog that the controversy centres, and the passions of the
dispute rage most obstinately.

To the question we have posed, whether it is justifiable
to inﬂict pain upon animals if need be for the sake of
knowledge, the supporter of vivisection says, “ Yes.” He
says “ Yes ” because he regards the whole animal creation
as existing not merely for its present sensations, but as a
contributing part of a continuing and developing reality
which increases in knowledge and power.

His disposition is to see things plainly and to accept
the subservience of beast to man in man’s increasing effort
to understand and control. He regards animals as limited
and simpliﬁed cognates of our own inﬁnitely more complex
and important beings, illuminating inferiors, and he can
conceive no better or more proﬁtable use for their lives
than to serve the ends of mental growth.

What otherwise are their lives? A play of desires and

 




 

 

 

 

 

. IO EXPERIMENTS ON ANIZMALS

fears, that ends 1n being devoured by other creatures great
and small. To this mentality that of the natural anti-
vivisectionist is in the completest contrast.

The world that the pro-vivisectionist is by his nature
impelled to strip bare, the anti—vivisectionist clothes in rich
swathings of feeling and self-projection. He imagines
souls in birds and beasts, long memories and intricate
criticism.

He can imagine dogs and cats pressed by forebodings,
a prey to anxiety, vexed and thwarted. He does not clearly
separate them from humanity. Often he will compare these
dream—enriched animals of his with mankind to the dis-
advantage of the. latter.

, He enriches reality, but at the same time he distorts and
conceals it by these ornamentations. He is afraid of bare
reality as a child is afraid of a skeleton.

The biological experimenter ' experiments because he
wants to know. He is neither dismayed by pain nor does
he desire that pain should enter into his experiments. He
avoids it when possible.

I doubt if his work is largely determined by practical
ends, nor whether 1t would have much value if he undertook
it directly for the sake of curing disease, beneﬁting humanity
or anything of that sort. Sentimental aims mean loose,
sentimental, ineffective work. -

He wants knowledge because he wants knowledge; it
is his characteristic good. Practical applications follow
unsought. He is a type of humanity that may or may not
be increasing in the world.

Most of us do not stand up to knowledge like that.
We want to keep our illusions.

We do not want knowledge for ourselves or others very
much, we prefer to be happy 1n our imaginations, and the
rescue of animals from the “ clutches ” of the vivisectionists
appeals to our deep instinctive self-protection quite as much

4' in»

 




 

 

’ FOR VIVISECTION 11

as it does to the Widely diffused desire to champion the
weak against the strong.

«In...

[Copyright [3y H. G. W’ells. Tramat/am‘z'c rig/32‘: rexerwdj

 




 

 

 

 




x‘ ‘4_ g
. ' 4/\
\ pr 1 .

‘0

II

AGAINST VIVISECT ION

By GEORGE BERNARD SHAW

 




 

 

I4 EXPERIMENTS ON ANIZ'VIALS

VIVISECTION: THE “ SCIENCE ” OF IMBECILEs—BOILING
BABIES FOR THE SAKE OF KNOWLEDGE—ST. THOMAS,
“ THE HALF-WIT,” AND THE RISEN CHRIST.

‘ a I E have got it at last from Mr. Wells. The vivisector
experiments because he wants to know. He is
driven by a will for abstract lucidity. On the

straight question whether it. is right and permissible to
cut even a single animal, or indeed to hurt any living
creature at all for the sake of knowledge, he claims to be
free to do it, and the anti-vivisectionist labours strenuously
to prevent him. He wants knowledge because he wants
knowledge: it is his characteristic good. He regards
animals as illuminating inferiors, and can conceive no better
or more proﬁtable use for their lives than to serve the ends
of mental growth.

“ TWADDLE ”

That is how Mr. Wells puts it. The advantage of having
it put clearly is that we now see that the vivisector is distin-
guished from the ordinary run of limited scoundrels by
being an inﬁnite scoundrel. The common scoundrel who
does not care what pain he (or she) inﬂicts as long as he
can get money by it, can be satiated. With public opinion
and a stiff criminal code against him he can be brought to
a point at which he does not consider another ﬁve—pound
note worth the risk of garotting or sandbagging or
swindling anybody to get it. But the vivisector-scoundrel
has no limit at all except that of his own physical capacity

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

AGAINST VI VIS EC TION I 5

for committing atrocities and his own mental capacity for
devising them. No matter how much he knows there is
always, as Newton confessed, an infinitude of things still
unknown, many of them still discoverable by eXperiment.
When he has discovered what boiled baby tastes like, and

‘ what effect it has on the digestion, he has still to ascertain

the gustatory and metabolic peculiarities of roast baby and
fried baby, with, in each case, the exact age at which the
baby should, to produce such and such results, be boiled,
roast, fried, fricasseed, etc. etc. You remonstrate with
him, especially if you are the mother of one or two of the
babies. You say “What good is all this. 3 You do not
eat babies. Neither do I. England is not a cannibal
island.” He replies contemptuously,‘ ‘Do you think,
then, that I have any practical end in view P .Not at all.
I merely desire to learn something I do not know at present.
Like Cleopatra I have immortal longings on me. When I
know all these things about babies I shall know more than
Wells, more than Einstein, more than Solomon. As Wells
puts it, the babies will have served the ends of mental
growth. . I shall have eaten one more apple from the tree
of knowledge of good and evil. I—-—-——’-’ “ You will have
eaten your own damnation, as Paul said to the Corinthians ”
is as good a reply as another to such monstrous twaddle,
if you condescend to reply to it at all. The proper place
in organised human society for a scoundrel who is prepared

to seek knowledge or anything else without conscience is

the lethal chamber.

There was once a gentleman who wanted to know how
many times he could chop a paw off a dog who was very
fond of him before the dog-would lose conﬁdence in his
adored master and discover that he was only a moral
imbecile. He got avdog; gainedits affection; and pro-
ceeded to chop off a paw whenever it came to him for a
caress. As the dog had only four paws its conﬁdence may

 




 

 

 

I 6 ‘ EXPERIMENTS ON ANIMALS

have survived the four betrayals of it; but after all, even
this fact was an interesting addition to the sum of inhuman
knowledge. Why was there no law to chop that experi-
menter’s head off ? ' '

Obviously not because of any enthusiasm for “ abstract
lucidity ” on the part of our excessively dog-loving public.
Put that experimenter into any normal British crowd, or
even into a rabbit coursing crowd, and tell what he did;
and this experiment of yours (which he will probably
deprecate strenuously in spite of his principles) will probably
be the last in which he will ﬁgure as a principal. And all
the doctors in the crowd, thoug “ massively in support of
vivisection,” will take a hearty hand in securing that result,
not in the least as a contribution to knowledge, but solely
for the satisfaction of their feelings.

THE FROG’S FOOT

When the Anti-Vivisection agitation began, Queen Victoria
wrote to Lister asking him to give the support of his great
reputation as a surgeon to a public repudiation of the claim
of the vivisectors to be exempt from humane law and duty
and decency in their experiments. Lister failed lamentably
to grasp the situation or rise to it. In his early days, when
he was beginning to study what he then called inﬂammation
(suppuration of surgical wounds) he had poured boiling
water on the foot of a frog, and thereby discovered what
happened to a frog’s foot when boiling water was poured
on it. When he realised that there were people, including
Queen Victoria, who were actually proposing to treat a
surgeon in respect of pouring boiling water on frogs
exactly as a farmer’s boy is treated, he lost his head, and
opposed the attack on cruelty as an attack on science.

 

 




 

 

 

 

AGAINST VIVISECTION I7

From that time forth medical students were taught to
advocate and defend vivisection as an essential tenet of
scientiﬁc faith (precisely as Baptists are taught to advocate
and defend total immersion) and to repudiate and abhor
Anti-Vivisection as Roman Catholics are taught to repudiate
and abhor Birth Control. Consequently the medical
profession is, as Mr. Wells puts it, massively in support
of vivisection. They do not massively practise it; and
when you mention any of its more revolting excesses to one
of them he generally manifests a normal loathing of it;
but as long as you avoid coming down to tin tacks he
preserves his inculcated attitude of contempt for Anti-
Vivisection as bad form.

Lister’s reply to the Queen fell away into shallow
petulances and fa quoqzm which have remained part of the
vivisector’s stock of debating points ever since. They are
summed up by Mr. Wells in a couple of sentences. “ Far
more pain, terror, and distress is inﬂicted on the ﬁrst day
of pheasant shooting every year, for no purpose at all
except the satisfaction of the guns, upon the wounded and
mutilated birds which escape, than is inﬂicted by all the
scientiﬁc investigators in the world vivisecting for a year.”
Clearly this, though a terriﬁc indictment of pheasant shooting,
is no defence of vivisection. And again, “ There is a
residuum of admittedly painful cases ; but it is an amount
of suffering inﬁnitesimal in comparison with the gross
aggregate of pain inﬂicted day by day upon sentient
creatures by mankind.”

The advantage of this defence is that its scope is so
magniﬁcent that it ﬁts every possible crime from pitch-and-
toss to manslaughter. Its disadvantage is that it is not good
enough to impose on the simplest village constable. Even
Landru and the husband of the Brides in the Bath, though
in desperate peril of the guillotine and gallows, had not
the eﬂrontery to say, “ It is true that we made our livelihood

 

 




 

 

 

 

18 EXPERIAJENTS ON ANIMALS

by marrying women, and burning them in the stove or
drOwning them in the bath when we had spent their money ,
and we admit frankly and handsomely that the process may
haVe involved some pain and disillusionment for them; ‘
but their sufferings (if any) were inﬁnitesimal in comparison
with the gross aggregate of pain inﬂicted day by day upon
sentient creatures by mankind.” Landru and Smith knew
what Lister ought to have known. that scoundrels who
have no better defence than that have no defence at all.

As a matter of fact we do not tolerate vivisection on
these absurd grounds : we cling to it dishonorably because
we are repeatedly assured that it has led to the discoVery
of cures for our diseases; and we are prepared to snatch
at any dirty receipt for immortality rather than face death
like ladies and gentlemen. Now I am the last man alive
to deny that vivisection has led to discoveries. I could
ﬁll columns with an account of all the mare’s nests it has
discovered during my own lifetime. Much has been
learnt during the same period from war, from earthquakes,
from plague, pestilence, and famine , battle, murder, and
sudden death. But if any class of persons devoted them-
selves to the artiﬁcial production of such calamities “on the
off—chance of learning something from them I should
advocate their painless but prompt extirpation. They
would no doubt denounce me as an enemy of Science.
They would be mistaken: I know the difference between
science and scoundrelism : ' that is all.

SUPERSTITION S

Unfortunately people know so little about science, and
are so saturated with tribal superstitions which connect
supernatural powers with appalling cruelties and terrors,

 

 

 




 

 

 

AGAINST VI V15 EC TION 1 9

that they are easily persuaded that truth cannot be divined
without horrible rites and sacriﬁces. When a vivisector
says, in effect, “ I have a dread secret to wrest from Nature : _
so you must license me to sacriﬁce a guinea pig,” the
Sambo in us assents ; and the more hideously the guinea
pig is sacriﬁced the more we feel the importance of the
secret and the success of its extraction. And the magician"
can sell us anything as a cure next day, even without telling
us the secret. And we feel that the Anti-Vivisector is
trying to rob us of the elixir of life, and to keep our dear
doctors’ minds in darkness.

CRIMINAL METHODS

Anyone who knows the ABC of Science, which includes
political science as well as physiological science, knows
that this is all Hottentot "superstition. He does not say
that physiologists must not seek knowledge and make
experiments. He says that they must not seek knowledge.
by criminal methods, just as they must not make money
by criminal methods He does not Object to Galileo
dropping cannon balls from the top of the leaning tower of
Pisa; but he does object to his shoving off two American
tourists simultaneously to see which 'will reach the ground
ﬁrst. He knows that there are ﬁfty ways of ascertaining"
any fact; that only the two or three worst of them are
dirty ways; that those who deliberately choose the dirty
ways are not only morally but intellectually imbecile;
that “ the clean-handed man with the scalpel ” is a humbug'
who has to buy his brains from the instrument maker;
that it is ridiculous to expect that an experimenter who
commits acts of diabolical cruelty for the sake of what
he calls Science can be trusted to tell the truth about the

 

 




 

 

 

zo EXPERIA/IENTS ON ANIMALS

results ; that no vivisector ever accepts another vivi-
sector’s conclusions nor refrains from undertaking a fresh
set of vivisections to upset them; that as any fool can
vivisect and gain kudos by writing a paper describing what
happened, the laboratories are infested with kudos hunters
who have nothing to tell that they could not have ascertained
by asking a policeman except when it is something that
they should not know (like the sensations of a murderer) ;
and that as these vivisectors crowd humane research workers
out of the schools and discredit them, they use up all the
endowments and bequests available for their purposes,
leaving nothing for serious physiological research. When
one thinks of the Rockefeller funds, the Cancer Research
funds, and the rest of the money that has gone down the
vivisectors’ sinks during the past quarter century, and
compare its worse than negative results with the amazing
series of discoveries made during that period by physicists
doing sheer brain work within the strictest limits of honor,
it is difﬁcult to resist the conclusion (not that any normal
person wants to resist it) that only imbeciles can be induced
to practise vivisection and glory in it. We give them huge
sums to discover why we are dying of cancer at such
an alarming rate, and how we can avoid it. They
seize the money and buy innumerable mice with it to play
with in their laboratories. After years of developing in
themselves the mouse mind, they tell us that they have
found out how to give a mouse cancer, and that they have
"found a microbe which is quite harmless, but which, when
associated with other conditions which they cannot define,
seems to be characteristic of cancer. Who would pull
the whiskers of a single mouse for the sake of so pitiful a
result ? If these experimenters still think that playing
with mice is better than using their brains nothing will
persuade me that they have any brains to use.

 

 

 




 

 

AGAINST VI VIS EC TION 2 I

USELESS OPERATIONS

As to the bearing of all this on general medical and
surgical practice, it is hard to speak of it with good temper.
Here is the surgeon under a strain of temptation which
only the highest standards of honor and devotion can
resist. We are helpless in his hands : we must deliver our
bodies and those' of our husbands and wives and children
up to him to be mutilated on his simple assurance that if
we refuse the penalty is death. He can make sums of
money ranging from tens to hundreds and even thousands
of guineas in a few hours by imposing useless operations
on us; assuring us that long and serious operations are
triﬂing and brief ; persist in treatments that prevent natural
curing instead of hastening it; tempt us to call him in by
promises of cures or intimidate us when we despair of his
broken promises by threats of death: in short, exercise
powers over us for claiming which kings have lost their
heads and Popes and Inquisitors their dominion over half ,
the world. Against the abuse of such powers we have no
security except the surgeon’s humanity and magnanimity;
for it must not be forgotten that as we leave him to qualify
himself at his own expense, and then to live on what he
can extract from us in our illnesses, we have no claim what-
ever on his gratitude or even his forbearance. The more
conscientious he is, socially and scientiﬁcally, the surer he
is to have twenty years of genteel poverty before his cir-
cumstances become reasonably comfortable. When he
comes through unspotted we do not even make him a
Saint ; we throw him a commonplace knighthood.

And this, if you please, is the man to whom the vivisectors
and their champions would have us say: “ Don’t worry
about humanity. Don’t hamper yourself with a conscience.
As a Man, of Science you are beyond good and evil. No

 




 

 

22 EXPERIMENTS ON ANIMALS

matter what you do, you can learn something from it;
and the increase in your knowledge justiﬁes your deed.
Let yourself rip. Have a good time. Superstition is on
your side. Ignorance is on your side. The dread of
death is on your side. The Press is on your side. Parlia-
ment is on your side. Only a few notorious cranks are
against you. And if you join the cranks you are a lost
man, and will be prosecuted for mal-practice by your
colleagues, as Dr. Hadwen was.” Can anything be madder?

For my part I urge the doctors to ﬂee from the wrath to
come. Dr. Hadwen’s case* was an unpleasant surprise for
his prosecutors. To their amazement and subsequent
confusion and ignominious defeat, the general public
instantly subscribed money enough to enable Dr. Hadwen
to retain an overwhelming bar for his defence. The jury
turned the vivisectors down and gave the famous anti-
vivisector a triumph. Who were the subscribers who saw
Dr. Hadwen through so handsomely? Not the cranks
who barely keep in existence a few little “ anti” leagues with
their scanty shillings. That ill-advised prosecution roused
a section of the big public to active hostility to the doctors.
It is not in the lump an instructed scientiﬁc hostility. It is
largely the resentment of the rich for their enormous
expenditure on treatments that do not cure, and operations
that do not save ; for our doctors and surgeons are forced
to live like Robin Hood, doing endless work for the poor
for nothing, and ﬂeecing the rich unmercifully. And the
poor do not enjoy the footing they are on with the doctors.
Both rich and poor are disquieted by the sinister background
of vivisection, not knowing that the doctors are mostly
quite innocent of it, and have no time to study its dull and
occasionally revolting oracles or to acquire its suggested

* A large and copiously illustrated booklet, containing the verbatim report
of the scandalous trial alluded to, and what led up to it, can be obtained

POSthZCC, for Sixpence, on application to the British Union for Abolition
0f VIVISCCUOH, 32, Charing Cross, London, S.W.I.

 

 




 

 

AGAINST VIVISECTION ' 23

clinical techniques on the rare occasions when it has any—
thing to suggest. The resentment and mistrust are ac-
cumulating at a rate which the cancer scare is accelerating.
They are partly absorbed by the resort to the unregistered
practitioners of the new techniques and professors of
modern vitalistic theories who now ﬂourish all over the
West End. But there are not enough of these to supersede
the regulars ; and their fees are too high to open the safety
valve widely enough. We are heading for an explosion of
popular wrath which will not discriminate between genuine
science and obsolete trade unions like the General Medical
Council with the dismal survivals of augury and witch-
doctoring which it supports. It may for a time become
impossible to obtain a penny of public or private money
for honorable research; and the serious physicists and
biologists may ﬁnd themselves starving alongside the bogus
physiologists and sadists.

MY HOPE

I hope it is not too late to avert this catastrophe. I hope
to learn some day that one of the best of our London
hospitals is no longer dedicated to St. Thomas, the apostle
of the vivisectors. One can never forget the story of that
amazing half-wit, with his friend and master, the risen
Christ, standing before him saying, “ Well, here I am,”
and Thomas replying, “ Pardon me, but I cannot consider
your existence scientiﬁcally established unless you will
permit me to thrust my ﬁngers through the holes in your
hands and my ﬁst into the hole in your side. It will hurt
you, of course; but what is your pain compared to the
impetus I shall give to Christian science by absolutely
proving the fact of your resurrection ? ” Possibly——

 




 

 

 

 

24 EXPERIMENTS ON ANIMALS

though it is not recorded—downright Peter said, “ Can’t
you open your eyes and look at him, you fool, or shake his

hand Without hurting him P ”
' At all events, that is What I should have said.

G. BERNARD SHAW.

Stresa,
gIn‘JzI/j, 1927.

[Copyright in U.S.A.]

The Botolph Peintmg Works, Gate Street, K ingsway, W.C.2.

 




 

 

British llnion for Abolition ol Vivisection

(The British Antl-Vivisection Society)
32, CHARING CROSS, LONDON, S.W.l

President - '- - - WALTER R. HADWEN, M.D., LP.
Treasurer - - - - Rt. Hon. VISCOUNT HARBERTON
Secretary - -------- Miss B. E. KIDD

 

Life Membership : £5
Annual Member’s Subscription : 10/ -
Associates: 5/- and 2/6

 

N.B.—The British Union is the largest Anti- Wolsection
Society in the world.

Annual Report sent on application.

 

 

 

 

 




 




