N 0. 53 New Series] [Price Id. each.

,i
V.

ﬁx“? 5

I ”0/ ""1! ‘ \.

Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

\

[Kindness to Animals}

 

A S E R M O N '
Preached at St. Luke’s, Camberwell, and at St. Clement’s, East Dulwich,

BY THE

Rev. John Hudson, M.A., :

Late Classical Sc/zolar of Si. Peler’s College, Camérz'dge ;
and Sea/amaze ( Um'wrsz'ly) Prz'zemaiz.

Issued by the R.S.P.C.A., 105, JERMYN STREET, LONDON, S.W. '

 

 




 

ANIMAL SUNDAY.

'I‘HE FOURTH SUNDAY AFTER TRINITY in
every year is looked upon as “Animal Sunday.” The
Council of the Royal Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals trust that the Clergy will on that day.
as on former Animal Sunday occasions, urge the claims
of the lower fellow-creatures of God to humane treat-
ment. They gratefully acknowledge that the duty of
justice and mercy to animals has been year by year
preached from nearly 2,300 pulpits on Animal Sunday in
response to their applications. The educational and
religious effort of the Society has grown into large
dimensions since they initiated the movement nearly ﬁfty

years ago.

Grants of suitable literature for use in churches will
be supplied, gratis, on application to the Secretary,

R.S.P.C.A., 105, Jermyn Street, London.

OFFERTORY COLLECTIONS NOT ASKED FOR.

-14-- . _ ___,.< A




4‘"

“Merciful treatment of animals should be ' a
taught from the pulpit and in our Sunday
Schools as a mostimperative Christian duty.”
——B’£shop W. X. Ninde.

“The crying sin bf omission of most clergy-
men today is their silence regarding the inhu-
manity of men to animals.”—Ella. Wheeler
Wilcox.

“ Be ye t/zercfore merciful, as your Fat/167* also 2's mammal.”—
ST. LUKE VI, 36.

OR some years the Royal Society, which strives to prevent
F cruelty to animals, has expressed a. wish—without one
thought of advertising its work, or the least idea of appealing
for pecuniary help——that we should set apart one Sunday in the
year for the special consideration of the claims of what is called
the Animal Creation ; to reﬂect on the relationship in which the
dumb creatures around us stand to us, and we to them, as all
alike created by the same Almighty Hand,- to ponder on our
responsibilities in this connexion ; to ask ourselves whether we
have ever realized that we have any responsibility at all in the
matter, whether we have anything to reproach ourselves with
on the score of want of humaneness and kindness, whether we
give animals any place in our thoughts at all, whenever we listen
to the Divine Command “ be ye merciful.”

And it is easy to see why this, the fourth Sunday after
Trinity, has been selected as an appropriate day for such a
subject. For in the Collect we base'our appeal to God as the
Protector of all that trust in Him,- and we beseech Him to
increase and multiply upon us His Mercy.

And in the Epistle we read of the whole creation groaning
and travailing together, and that the creature, 226., every created
being, shall be delivered from the bondage of corruption into
the glorious liberty of the children of God. While in the

 

 




 

4

Gospel we receive the Saviour’s solemn injunction “be ye
therefore merciful, as your Father is merciful”; and we are
further reminded that with the same measure wherewith we
mete, it shall be measured to us again.

And, oh ! I beg, let us not think that the subject of the lower
creatures is too simple, too trivial, too mean, to occupy our
thoughts on God’s Day, at God’s Service, and in God’s House.

Do not let us deem that it is remote from religion: it may
be that it is the very rudiment of religion.

Did not Rowland Hill once say, in his own quaint inimitable
way, not without a touch of sarcasm, that no man’s religion was
worth anything if his dog and his cat were not the better for it?

For, indeed, we cannot help being struck by the fact that
throughout our whole earthly sojourn here below, we are com-
passed on all sides by an animal population of beings, that are
strangely related to us, and yet strangely remote—so near and
yet so far! We are largely dependent upon them for our
comforts and very existence, they supply our food, our raiment,
and the thousand and one accessories of modern civilization.
Till the invention of electric power and machinery, hardly a
process of agriculture or locomotion but was indebted to the
mightiest of them! Not a ﬂutter of imperial purple, nor the
ﬂashing of a single pearl, but is due to the meanest of them I

Many of them toil all their lives in our service 3 they subserve
our safety, our sustenance, our sport, our selﬁshness.

Like us they are sensitive to pain and pleasure 3 like us
they are susceptible of carnal passions and propensities 3 like us
they are capable of warm attachments and ﬁerce 'antipathies 3
like us they are built up of that primordial dust and ashes that
constitute our earthly tabernacle, and into which at death this
body of our humiliation is dissolved.

They live beside us, and like the poor ‘are ever with us,’
and share the common heritage of the creature. We make
friends of them if we will, and at times we ﬁnd their ﬁdelity so

 




 

 

 

 

5

wonderful that it needs no Darwin to discover the bond of
sympathy that exists between man and beast; and strangely-
constituted indeed, and much to be pitied are the purblind
beings who know it not by experience. It is one of life’s
mysteries, and life is full of mysteries, and each mystery, as has
been well said, is a great possibility.

Multitudinous in number, manifold in their divisions and
sub-divisions of genera and species, they are born into the
world, and live out their little lives whether it be the one-day
portion of the Ephemerids, or a term of years that rivals man’s
most extended span, and the meanest of mankind with physical
strength immeasurably inferior wields absolute power over the
mightiest of them, and then they die and are forgotten, and
nobody as a rule thinks at all of their purpose or place in God’s
great scheme of Creation, and Providence, and Redemption.

It is a mystery, and as there are more things in Heaven and
Among the Noblest. allow philosophy, so there

“ Yes, Well your story pleads the cause naln insoluble here, yet It
Of those dumb mouths that have no speech
‘ Only a cry from each to each ’
J In its own kind, with its own laws;

9} Something that is beyond the reach

; , .Of human pOWer to learn or teach,—-

’ " An inarticulate moan or pain,

Like the immeasurable main

Breaking upon an unknown beach.”

Thus Spake the poet with a sigh;

Then added with impassioned cry,

As one Who feels the words he speaks,

The Color ﬂushng in his cheeks,

The fervor burning in his eye:

wurselves what is the duty
,hese poor “dumb driven
at same creative ﬁat that

he Bible cannot fail to be
ahalf of the dumb animals
hand.

erein is the breath of life is
f the early scriptures.

“ Among the noblest in the land,
Though he may count himself the least,
That man I honor and revere

Who Without favor, without fear,

In the great city dares to stand

The friend of every friendless beast,
And tames with his unﬂinching hand
The brutes that Wear our form and face,
The wehr-Wolves of the human race!”

Longfellow’s Tales of a Wayside Inn.

lIICIC ID ll'UllJ u.th . ”'3!

L}

t revelled in rapine and
1elty and carnage and de—
and ceremonial codes that
noral sensibility, there is a
nimals that seems to reﬂect
as mercy and not sacrifice.

g a desire to impress us with

 

 




 

5

wonderful that it needs no Darwin to discover the bond of
sympathy that exists between man and beast; and strangely-
constituted indeed, and much to be pitied are the purblind
beings who know it not by experience. It is one of life’s
mysteries, and life is full of mysteries, and each mystery, as has
been well said, is a great possibility.

Multitudinous in number, manifold in their divisions and
sub divisions of genera and species, they are born into the
world, and live out their little lives whether it be the one- day
portion of the Ephemerids, or a term of years that rivals man’s
most extended span, and the meanest of mankind with physical
strength immeasurably inferior wields absolute power over the
mightiest of them, and then they die and are forgotten, and
nobody as a rule thinks at all of their purpose or place in God’s
great scheme of Creation, and Providence, and Redemption.

It is a mystery, and as there are more things in Heaven and
Earth than are dreamed of in our shallow philosophy, so there
are many problems that will ever remain insoluble here, yet it
is well on one day at least to ask ourselves what is the duty
which God imposes on us towards these poor “dumb driven
cattle” who are the products of that same creative ﬁat that
fashioned our human frames.

Even the most casual reader of the Bible cannot fail to be
struck by the divine solicitude on behalf of the dumb animals
whom their Maker gave into Adam’s hand.

A sympathy for all creatures wherein is the breath of life is
one of the most distinctive features of the early scriptures.

Amidst records of nations that revelled in rapine and
revenge, records that abound in cruelty and carnage and de-
struction, amidst civic enactments and ceremonial codes that
astonish the mind, and shock the moral sensibility, there is a
touching and tender regard for the animals that seems to reﬂect
the very attribute of Him Who desires mercy and not sacriﬁce.

There 18 from the Very beginning a desire to impress us with

 

 




 

 

6

the patient companionship, the complete dependence, the pathetic
devotion, of these partners with us in our common mortality.

God’s constant care for them, man’s duty of co-operating with
His revealed Will concerning them, is fully and frequently enforced.

God’s covenant with Noah was not only to him and his seed,
but was expressly extended to every living thing that was with
him. In the fourth commandment the weekly rest of the
Sabbath was ordained for animals as well as man.

Look at the law of the Pentateuch! Why even the Draconian
severity of the Mosaic code seems to relax its sternness, when it
turns for a moment aside from man and his misdoings to legis-
late for the safety and welfare of the animals.

We might almost say,

“ Stern lawgiver ! yet thou dost wear
The Godhead’s most benignant grace ;
Nor know we anything so fair
As is the smile upon thy face.”

Think of some of its provisions.

There was a standing regulation that if an Israelite saw an
enemy’s ox or ass lying prostrate under the pressure of its load,
in spite of all animosity to the owner, he was to help the fallen
beast of burden.

There was an enactment that the ox treading out the corn
should not be muzzled, that so it might be free to participate in
the results of its own labour; and another that forbade the
unequal yoking together of an ox and an ass, for this were an
unfair apportionment of strain and labour. I

There was even a clause prohibiting the taking of a nest
when the mother-bird was sitting on eggs or young, and the
observance of it was coupled with the promise “that it may be
well with thee, and that thou mayest prolong thy days.”

And if red/crueltybe thus forbidden, no less is the ban of divine
disapproval put upon eve/z seemz'ﬁg cruelty and inconsiderateness.

Think of the reﬁnement of feeling, the almost superﬂuous
pitifulness of such a proviso asthis: “thou shalt not seethe a

“152-: ’1"




 

7

kid in his mother’s milk,” as if it might seem—mind you, merely
seem—cruel to divert to such a use the very ﬂuid that nature
provided for the nourishment of offspring ,- or that similar law,
“thou shalt not kill the ewe and her young in one day,” as
though there might be amongst animals something analogous to
human sentiment and chivalry ,' as if there might be feelings to
outrage and affections to wound. ‘

Did not God thus early teach by the mouth of Moses, what he
afterwards taught more completely by the voice of His own dear
Son? “ Be ye therefore merciful, as your Father also is merciful.”

And such too is the tenor of the teaching to be found in
other parts of the Old Testament.

Look at the lyric ecstasy of the sweet Psalmist of Israel.
How often his heart seems to sing within him as he looks out
upon the world of Nature, and contemplates the goodness of its
Maker as seen in his providential care for His creatures. Take
for instance that noble ‘ Benidic anima mea’ (PS. civ.), which is
not only a burst of praise for the blessings of Providence, but a
profession of faith that He who is so bountiful to all the works

.of His hand, will indeed be the sure Sustainer of his own sinful

and sorrow-laden soul.

“He sendeth the springs into the valleys that run among
“ the hills, all the beasts of the ﬁeld drink thereof and the wild
“asses quench their thirst; He causeth the grass to grow for
“the cattle ; the trees of the land are full of sap, even the
“Cedars of Libanus Which He hath planted, wherein the birds
“ make their nests, and the ﬁr trees are a dwelling for the stork.
“The high hills are a refuge for the wild goats, and so are the
“stony rocks for the conies. The lions roaring after their
“ prey do seek their meat from God. He giveth fodder to feed
“the cattle, and feedeth the young ravens that call upon Him.”

“These wait all upon Thee, that Thou mayest give them
“meat in due season.-—Praise thou the Lord, 0 my soul, praise
“the Lord ! ”

 

 

 




 

"8

'Or turn to that living picture," that soul—study, that stirring
drama of the Book of Job.»

The Sufferer’s three friends have showered upon him their
empty sophistries, and plied him with their pious platitudes,
and brought no balm of comfort to his aching soul. But when
‘the Lord answers Job out of the whirlwind, what is the purport
of his reply? He silences his doubts, and lulls his fears, and
quells all his complaints, by a panoramic illustration of Almighty
‘ care for all created things. He points him to the fair earth, and
the fathomless sea, and the starry sky 3 to the sweet inﬂuence of
the Pleiads, to the secrets of Orion and Mazzaroth and Arcturus 3
to the rainbow and the sunrise ,' to the dew and the frost , but
'most of all to the wonders of the Animal world—to the wild
goat climbimg the mountain, to the ostrich scouring the desert,
to the eagle circling round her eyrie-home, to the giant forms of
Behemoth and Leviathan, to the glory of green and gold that
paints the peacock’s plumes—~till the proof of an Omnipotent
care for all. creation compels Job to believe in a divine love and
a divine wisdom that cares for him too, and wrings from the
poor Patriarch the humble confession : “ Wherefore I abhor
myself, and repent in dust and ashes.”

Or turn to the Proverbs of Solomon, and see how he draws
lessons of prudence and wisdom from the four tiny creatures, which
though they be “little upon earth, yet are exceeding wise.” I

Or to the book of Jonah where God’s anger against Nineveh
was mitigated because there were in that guilty city six score
thousand persons that knew not their right hand from their left,
2.6., infant children, and also, mark the words, also mart/z rafﬂe .’
The long-threatened stroke of vengeance was averted from
compassion for the animals and the children.

Or to the Apocryphal book of Tobit, that tells with a sweet and
‘simple tOUCh of nature that when the Jewish boy left home on a
perilous journey his dog Went with him, [and when he returned es—
corted by an Angel, the dog still followed the Angel and the youth.




' 9

Or to the Prophet Isaiah, whose eagle eye foresees the ﬁnal

reign of Peace, when “they shall not hurt nor destroy in all My

holy mountain: when the wolf shall dwell with the lamb, and
the cow and the bear shall feed, and the leopard shall lie down
with the kid, and the calf and the young lion and the fatling
together, and a little child shall lead them.”

And when we turn to the New Testament we ﬁnd, as we
should expect to ﬁnd, that this care for God’s creatures indicated
by psalmist, sage, and prophet, is most clearly set forth in the
tender teaching of the Lord Himself.

He who was born amidst the kine in the cattle—shed of
Bethlehem 3

He who had only the wild beasts of the Wilderness for his
companions in the terrible hour of His Temptation.

He who when He rode on an ass into Jerusalem, ‘in lowly pomp
rode on to die,’ would not of his charity separate the colt from its
mothermmight well tell us much that is pitiful and compassionate.

He it was who said-Are not z’wo sparrows sold for one
farthing? Are not ﬁve sparrows sold for z‘wo farthings? and not
one of them, not even that poor little extra one, the odd ﬁfth,
thrown in, as it were, by the seller to make a bargain, not one
doth fall to the ground without your Father knowing it.

He it was who reminded them that the fowls of the air, who
neither sowed nor reaped, were yet amply fed by their Heavenly
Father.

He it was who describes Himself as the Good Shepherd who

lays down His life for the sheep.

He it was who when depicting the plight of poor Lazarus,
contrasts the neglect of man with the sympathy of the brute
by that little touch drawn by a Master—hand, ‘the dogs came
and licked his sores.’ ‘

A He it was who cried over impenitent Jerusalem, “How
often would I have gathered Thy children together, as a hen

gathereth her chickens under her wings I ”

 




 

 

 

it?)

He it was, according to an ancient legend, who when others
were disgusted by a dead dog’s carcase in the way, paused a

moment on his journey to praise the pearly whiteness of its teeth. '

He it is who commands us in to—day’s Gospel “be ye merci~
ful,” as it is He also who pronounced the beatitude that is but
the corollary of the command “blessed are the merciful, for
they shall obtain mercy.”

Do we believe in this Divine solicitude for animals? that God
really cares for them? and if so, are we careﬁz! not to thwart H'z's (are?

For, indeed, what a beautiful and almost Godlike trait is
the love of one higher in the scale of being for a weak and
defenceless creature.

Sometimes it has been the one redeeming feature in lives in
all else debased and brutal, the one soft corner in hearts other-
wise hard as the nether mill—stone, as when a bird or a mouse
has become to a captive criminal the sole solace of his blighted
life in the dungeon that cuts him off from human society.

Sometimes, too, it has been the crowning virtue of lives that
were redolent with every grace and beauty. 'It was the striking
characteristic of many of the greatest Saints of old, who seemed
to have the special gift of attracting animals and inspiring them
with conﬁdence. Their simple gentle characters seemed to pos-
sess a strange fascination over the wild denizens of the woodland
and the mountain, and the most timid would come fearlessly to
their call, and the ﬁercest would fawn harmlessly at their feet.

Such was St. Anselm, who caught up the hunted hare to his
bosom, and St. Jerome, and St. Columba, and Luther, and that
sweet Umbrian Saint, St. Francis of Assisi, who, of all the holy
men that ever lived was most in harmony with Nature, and
claimed kinship with the birds and beasts, calling them little
brothers and sisters.

For animals, as we knowwell, are largely what men make
them, and kindness brings out their noblest qualities till they
become not servants but associates and loyal friends. i




 

 

 

 

 

if

Think of the beautiful story in the earliest Epic poetry, of
the old hound Argus dying for joy when his master, Odysseus,
comes home from Troy after Weary years of wandering.

Think of the St. Bernard dogs on the Alps rescuing travellers
from the snow-drifts.

Think of the story of Androcles in the ﬁrst century, how a
lion when let loose upon him in the arena only licked his face,
for the grateful beast recognised the benefactor who had once
extracted a thorn from his foot in Africa.

Or that of the dog Sir Walter Scott tells of, that stayed for
months by the corpse of his master on Helvellyn. Well might
a poet write over the grave of some such faithful dog :

“ If God
Is Love, then he who sleeps below was not
Without a spark divine.”

For indeed from whom could one learn more on all that
appertains to humanity and nature than from the poets? What
an anthology might be formed on this one theme alone of

kindness to animals!

“ Ah ! that brave
Bounty of poets, the one royal race
That ever was, or will be, in the world ! ”

I would gladly turn from all the dusty theologies and dry
moralities with their technicalities and trivialities to the simple

faith of him who so sweetly sings :

“ He prayeth best who loveth best

All things both great and small ;
For the dear God who loveth us.
He made and loved them all.”

And if this be true, how revolting in His sight must be the
wanton and wicked cruelty practised by one part of His creatures
on another I

And cruelty which often begins in thoughtlessness crystal-
lizes and consolidates into habit, and extends indeﬁnitely. The
child who delights in teasing or torturing an insect may develop
into a callous Nero ; and it is perhaps because man has been so
inconsiderate to the animals that he has so often been incon‘

 




 

i2

siderate to his own kind, and his ﬁner perceptions have become
so blunted that “man’s inhumanity to man makes countless
thousands mourn.”

Just as conversely kindness is cumulative and generative,
and the child who has early learnt the rudimentary lesson of
kindness to the helpless creature will the more readily learn the
larger lesson “ be ye kind to one another,” and those comprehen-
sive precepts of the old catechism, which it‘takes some of us a
whole life-time to learn, and which others never learn at all~-—“ to
hurt nobody by word or deed,” and “to do to others as we would
they should do unto us.”

Yea ! and even of nations it is true, that next perhaps to the
treatment of women, there is no test of civilization so searching
or so certain, as the treatment of dumb creatures ,' and the
nations where cock—ﬁghting, and bear-baiting, and bull—ﬁghting
have been the popular pastimes, have never, while they practised
these things, risen to a commanding position amongst the great
races of the world.

“ Be ye therefore merciful.”

Has not mercy ever been the highest attribute of God? Has
it not formed alike the plea of our most effectual prayers, and
the theme of our most fervent praise P

“Save me for Thy great mercy’s sake.”

“Remember Thy tender mercies which have been ever of old.”

“God be merciful to me a sinner.”

“ His mercy is over all His works.”

“ His mercy is on them that fear Him.”

“ For His mercy endureth for ever.”

' Do we not all need mercy, every one of us, every day and
every hour P

“ We do pray for mercy,
And that same prayer doth teach us all to render
The deeds of mercy.”

ls there a more loathsome character than that of the unmer-
Ciful servant, who when released from his ruinous debt of talents,

4 A ,a—i. .44

 




I3

goes straight from the free bestowal of full remission, straight
from the chamber of consummate mercy, to clutch his fellow
by the throat and demand his petty due or pence?

Without mercy what right of access have we to the Tree of
Life P

“Without mercy,” it has been ﬁnely said “ there would not be
one regenerate saint on earth, nor one ransomed saint in Heaven! ”

Yes, Mercy is the sole Angel that pleads for us.

When God would create man (so saith the ancient Talmud),
He called before His Throne a council of the highest Angels.

“ Create lzz'm 7202‘,” said the Angel of peace, “he will redden
the earth with human blood, the ﬁrst-born of his race will slay
his brother.”

“ Create Izz'm 7202‘,” said the Angel of justice, “ he will be un-
just to his brother-men, he will be hard and cruel to the helpless
animals under his hand.”

“ Creale laz'm 720i,” said the Angel of truth, “he will lie for
gain, he will lie for party, he will lie for religion, he will desecrate
with falsehood even Thine own Sanctuary.”

And they would have said more, but there stepped forth and
kneeled before Him the Angel of pity, the gentlest and goodliest
child of the All—merciful Father :

“ Creaz’e Mm,” she pleaded, “create him in Thine own
Image, and as the favourite child of Thy Hand. When all others
fail him I will be with him 5 I will touch his heart with compas-
sion, I will make him merciful to those weaker than himself,
when he goes astray, I will lead him back in love.”

And so, saith the Talmud, God created man.

“Be ye therefore merciful, as your Father is merciful.”

And surely there are many ways of being merciful that the
subject of ‘to-day may suggest to us, and the day will not have
passed in vain, if it has awakened in us, in however so small a

[degree, a desire to do something, however small, to diminish the
wrongs and to increase the happiness of the animal creation

 




 

 

 

I4

around us, of whom we know so little though they are so
strangely like ourselves.

Physiological science is ever narrowing the gulf which parts,
or is supposed to part, the animal world from ours.

Can we doubt that in some mysterious way God is accomv’

plishing His purpose in their lives as well as in our own? His
designing Hand is seen in the structure of every one of them.
When the Prince Consort ﬁrst gazed in admiration at the glass
Palace that comprised the ﬁrst great Exhibition in London, he is
said to have remarked “and yet what is it all compared with the
formation of the Vilest insect that crawls on one of its panes?”
There has been a large body of thoughtful men in all ages
right down from Plato’s day to our own, which is ever being
recruited from the ranks of the more philosophical amongst us,
who hold the ﬁrm belief that animals are designed for an im—
mortal future, and that the poor Indian was not so far wrong

after all,
“ Who thinks admitted to that equal sky
His faithful dog shall bear him company.”

At any rate to-day’s Epistle seems to imply that they are
deeply concerned with human inﬁrmity and human destiny:
“the whole creation groaneth and travaileth together,” and if
theirs be a share in the consequences of the Fall, why should not
theirs too be a share in the results of Redemption, when “the
creature itself shall be delivered from the bondage of corruption.”

The Apostle sees all nature travailing in pain together. He
does not shut his eyes to the apparent cruelty and wastefulness
of Nature’s methods, but just because they are so cruel and
wasteful he instinctively feels that such a transitory phase must
give place to something higher and better and eternal.

Can we believe that He who created all things at the ﬁrst,
and pronounced them very good, created them only to destroy
them, and that too, often enough, without any recompense in this
life for all their labours and privations and sufferings?

Can we imagine that- in the great Day when sorrow and

 

 




 

 

 

 

I5

sighing shall ﬂee away, when God shall wipe away all tears from
every eye, He will have no thought for the myriads of helpless
creatures who toiled all their lives in His service, at the bidding
of man whom His Son redeemed P

Rather does the book of Revelation seem to hint that all
living creatures (of whom the ‘four beasts’ were representatives)
will rest not day and night but join in the chorus of praise that
rises to Him Who created all things. Rather does the Psalmist
seem to include them too in his inVocation “let everything'that
llaz‘lz areal/z praise the Lord.”

Rather will we believe that in that ﬁnal Restitution of all
things, a glory in suitable proportion to their nature, how we
cannot conceive, shall be conferred upon all these humble
companions of our earthly pilgrimage.

Rather will we hold with the poet-—

“ That nothing walks with aimless feet,
That not one life shall be destroyed
Or cast as rubbish to the void,
When He hath made the pile complete.”

For such a hope alone can illumine with golden light the
violet back-ground of suffering in the world around us.

Brethren, these are indeed great thoughts, but do not hastily
reject them.

The world is full of mysteries, and each mystery that we
reverently ponder brings us nearer to the Ante Chamber of the
Inﬁnite. i

At least let us learn today from the example of God’s care
for all His creatures, to think of them as He would have us
think of them, not as merely to be killed and conquered for our
sport or advantage, or in the cause of a restless relentless curi-
osity that masks itself under the name of science, but as
mysterious beings that have been entrusted to our care, and
for our care of whom we shall surely be called to account.

Why is it that man has been clothed with glory and honour,

 




 

16

' and made but a little lower than the Angels P. Why are all things
put in subjection under his feet; all sheep and oxen, yea and
the beasts of the ﬁeld, and the fowls of the air, and whatsoever 7
walketh through the paths of the seas?

Why? but because he is to behave like an elder brother at
the head of God’s'family of animals, and to use them all in
different ways to His honour and glory.

If Paradise was lost on the day-—

“ When man his Maker’s Presence ﬂed,
And beasts from man recoiled in dread”

it may be that it shall be restored in the day foretold in Job,
when “the beasts of the ﬁeld shall be at peace with thee,” when,
“they shall not hurt nor destroy in all My Holy Mountain, for
the earth shall be full of the knowledge of the Lord, as the
waters cover the sea.”

That day has not yet dawned. The world as yet is full of
the horrible ravages of sin and sorrow, of cruelty and crime 3 but
meanwhile, and till the realization of that

“ far-off divine event
To which the whole creation moves,”

we have ever ringing in our ears the Master’s message, “ Be ye
merciful as your Father is merciful,” and nothing is more merci-
ful than to try to make the world a little happier by lightening
the load of pain for any one of its smallest and most insigniﬁcant
inhabitants.

“ Be ye therefore merciful! ”

Merciful——

“ For earthly power doth then shew likest God’s
When mercy seasons justice.”

Mercz'ﬁ/L—for only the merciful shall obtain mercy.

Merczfu/wbecause we were made in the image and likeness
of Him before Whom we kneel each day, and Whom we address
in the opening words of the general confession : “Almighty and
most Mem’fzz/ Father.”

“Be ye therefore merciful as your Father, which is in

Heaven, is merciful.”

 

 




