a 7 TV hk‘ I-” i J‘

a “Sweet mercy is nobilit ’3 true bad e.”
-—Shakespeare. y g

3‘ “We plead the cause of those dumb mouths
l‘that have no speech.” -— Longfellow.

 

 

 

 

DOG YARDS, KENNELS AND INFIRMARY, BOSTON ANIMAL RESCUE LEAGUE.

The Need of Properly Conducted Shelters for Animals.

A paper read by: Mrs. Huntington Smith, President of the Boston Animal Rescue League, at th
International Convention of the American Humane Association, Washington, D. C., October 15, 1910.

 

The question of Shelters or Homes for the lower animals whose lives
are so closely connected with rﬁankind, is only beginning to be regarded
in a fair, unprej udiced light.

When I ﬁrst started the Animal Rescue League of Boston, ten
years ago last spring, there were but two Shelters for both dogs and cats
in this country. One was the Elizabeth Morris Refuge in Philadelphia,
from which I got the idea of starting a similar work in Boston. The
other was the Ellen Gifford Home in Brighton, Massachusetts, which is
good but does not cover the need, the rules 'of the organization being that
only homeless animals can be admitted. This bars out many animals that
might be saved from being abandoned or given to irresponsible persons
if there were a place where their owners could take them, when for rea-
sons they wish to give them up.

Shelters for animals should be regarded as one of the imperative
needs of every city and large town. I have had many letters from all
over the country asking advice about starting them. Several have started
and have not succeeded. Others I have heard from are now struggling
for existence. I know of but tWo or three that are so far meeting with
success, though there may be more, and there are various reasons for the
failure. One reason is lack of ﬁnancial support. There is? still a larger

 

 

 

 




 

If you have any doubts as to wh ‘

, . eth -
mals feel pain, watch the look of exetlrjrrrlile ‘
suffering and hopeless woe upon the face of a

v

number of men and women than one would expect to ﬁnd in this enlight-
ened age, who consider any organization that is formed for the purpose
of humanely caring ‘for animals that are lost, neglected, ‘homeless, or for
any other reason uncared for, mere sentimentality, and a waste of good
money, therefore those who will establish such a Shelter are in the
minority. . ‘ "

In attempting to start a work, of this kind, the ﬁrst thing to do is to
try to put the work on its right basis, and to show the crying need of
such a-shelter, not only from the point of view of the humane person,
who wishes the suffering of these neglected animals ended, but from the
standpoint of the civic worker whose experience in tenement house dis-
tricts has proved that the presence of neglected, diseased animals is a
menace to health, an offence against all the rules of hygiene, and a par-
ticular danger to children who are always handling these animals.

In the suburbs of the city, and in country districts that are near
enough to be beneﬁted by a shelter for animals, bird lovers who are
worried by the deserted or neglected cats, and farmers who have lost hens
and chickens through hungry four-footed hunters, should be glad to help
maintain a place where they can send uncared for dogs, cats, and litters
of puppies and kittens, whose owners are too tender hearted to put them
to death but not too tender hearted to let them multiply and suffer for
lack of care. The Boston Animal Rescue League has received animals
from distances of more than ﬁfty miles from the city.

,Workers in humane education must see that it is helping their cause
to have in the city an Animal Rescue League, or Animal Refuge, or
Shelter, whatever one chooses to name it: (the name Animal Rescue
League originated with our society in Boston) for when there is such a
Shelter many men, women and children who would turn away a starving
dog or cat for fear of encou 'aging the poor creature to stay with them,
will feed it and take it into their homes, knowing that it is not going to
be saddled upon them, since they can carry or send the animal to the
Shelter as soon as they wish no longer to keep it. _ »

The work is educational in a practical way. We notice at- the Ani-
mal Rescue League that every year, as the work becomes better known,
children come in greater numbers from the tenement house districts, bring-
ing to us the cats they have found on the streets, often in wretched con-
dition, and litters of kittens discovered in their own yards or alleysnear
by, instead of using them for targets and killing them in cruel ways as is
the case now where children have no humane teaching and where there is
no place to carry homeless animals. In summer we frequently have from
ten to twenty children in one day come with such animals, and this gives
us an opportunity to carry on an educational work by having at hand on
the matron’s desk or close by, simple stories in leaﬂet form with a- pict-
ure which we give to every child who comes in. These stories are read.
I myself have seen a'little group of boys sitting on a doorstep near the

League after leaving the house, reading the story through before they go

any farther. The League has given away to children during the last year
over 5,000 copies of these little stories.

2
l

j -

poor, half-starved, overworked horse. l

l

 

i. _ J

"L ‘ {7‘3
"27‘? f g I! .

\v
.14- ,

N V, “ g '
r ll'ilv1‘“~u"’ ‘.
’. 4‘ '. 1.4". ‘

 

..n_..~

sham.

. nun. .quL ”m .

 

 

- ,iii.‘




.‘4. A.- .< ,_.1;‘. “.15' :14“
- Hitﬁxkggb gm 4%.- F

’7' k l} ifs ~15

i

-‘ . .a. #3-- _ .

 

‘ r-n_xr.uu“ «m Lila”

 

1.,
,,_4

 

‘ v ' . . m.
,. _ , ‘1. _ _ _ .0... 4:”...‘w... _ ,4

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

- .._~ my . , ,r 7d,: ., a, ,,_ ._\_.._.':i.;_.._‘-. W

 

Whoever restores a young bird to the limb,

Or gladdens the lives of dumb creatures in need,

Is one of Christ’s helpers, whatever his creed,

ClaspsHhands with “the angel that comforted
1m.”

But whoever ﬁnds pleasure in adding one hurt ‘

To an innocent life, be it insect or dove, . >

Is somehow in league with those who found:
sport ‘

In nailing the hands of the World’s Greatest
Love.

Oh, how dare we ask a just God to bestow

The mercy we grant not to creatures below!

.i.
z

CHILDREN BRINGING KITTENS.

THE CROWN OF KINDNESS

And when our day’s work is over and each
servant comes home in the evening, when he
stands before the Judge and waits His word
what 1s to be the law by which you and I shall
be approved or condemned? It will not be
our knowledge or our cleverness, nor shall it
be our creeds nor our professions; for none of
these things shall be once mentioned then.
As the Judge, who cares for no favor and sees
through all pretences, considers each life, He
bids glad, full welcome to those who, in this
lower life, a'mid all their mistakes and failings
have cherished a warm heart; and so at last
the Crown is placed on the brow of Kindness.

“We plead for the dumb and helpless.
For us they toil and die.”

“Among the noblest in the land,
(Though he may count himself the l'east,)
That man I honor and revere,
Who, without favor, without fear,
In the great city dares to stand
The friend of every friendless beast,
And tames with an unshrinking hand
The BRUTES that wear our form and face,
The WEHR-WOLVES of the human race.”
— Longfellow.

Kind deeds outlive marble monuments and
remain when all else perishes. They are the
beautiful gems and fragrant ﬂowers of life,
and are pearls strung for Eternity.

—-M. C. J.

3

not a matter of pure senti-
the world if there were no
t God does help the suffer—
in man ; and when we are
oble and tender feeling, we

ter by showing how much
‘er neighborhood they may
0 other animals, how their
{eeps tired men and women
heir ravenous hunger they
they get a chance, the next
r. It must be something
und—it must be humanely

real success, otherwise it
o be carried on in a busi-

subject, but I can here only
important. _

lly located as possible, and
it may be reached from all
y side. A small house with
ble, but a Shelter may be

governed by circumstances,
ay help others in the work

 

a}: ‘-

w
.

 

 




 

 

Whoever restores a young bird to the limb,
Or gladdens the lives of dumb creatures in need,

1 Clasps hands with “the angel that comforted
Him ”

  
 
 
  
  

But whoever ﬁnds pleasure in adding one hurt p
To an innocent life, be it insect or dove, ,b
Is somehow in league with those who found;

sport
In nailing the hands of the World’s Greatest
Love.
Oh, how dare we ask a just God to bestow
The mercy we grant not to creatures below!

CHILDREN BRINGING KITTE NS.

' 0

So I think we can prove that the Work is not a matter of pure senti-
ment, though I must say just here, God help the world if there were no
sentiment in man; or, I might better say, that God does help the suffer—
ing of the world through sentiment implanted in man ; and when we are.
striving against sentiment, by which I mean noble and tender feeling, we
are striving against God. c

Having demonstrated the need of a Shelter by showing how much
trouble neglected dogs and cats cause in whatever neighborhood they may
be—how they carry diseases to children and to other animals, how their
crying and howling disturbs light sleepers and keeps tired men and women
awake at night sometimes for hours, how in their ravenous hunger they
catch the birds and steal even the hens’ food if they get a chance, the next
thing is to forma practical plan for a Shelter. It must be something
more than the ordinary, ill-conducted dog pound—it must be humanely
arranged and conducted if it is to meet with real success, otherwise it
would better never be begun, and it must also be carried on in a busi-
ness-like manner. ‘

There is much I would like to say on this subject, but I can here only
give a few suggestions that seem to me most important. _

The receiving station should be as centrally located as EOSSib'le’ and
easily accessible by street car lines, so that it may be reac ed from all
quarters of the city and from suburbs on every side. A small house with
a shed and yard should be obtained if possible, but a Shelter may be
started in a few rooms or a stable.

The arrangement of the Shelter must be governed by circumstances,
but the Animal Rescue League’s experience may help others in the work

-

3

1 Is one of Christ’s helpers, whatever his creed, l i

Ti

Ci

1

 

 

 




 

 

 

l

and we have found it necessary to have separate rooms for dogs in order
to keep males, females, mothers with puppies, sick dogs, ﬁghting dogs,
separate, and to have the yards partitioned off to allow the same separa-
tion. We give the cats four rooms and 'two outside runs, the runs com-
pletely wired in. “

A pail or basin of fresh water is kept in every room and yard. The
animals are well fed morning and night with boiled beef mixed either
with bread or meal or dog biscuit. The cats have a change once a week
from meat to ﬁsh, from which all the bones are ﬁrst picked out, and good
milk is given them in plenty. One secret of keeping the animals quiet
is keeping them comfortable, and showing them all the kindness possible.
They are very sensitive and feel the atmosphere of kindness. Plenty of
good food, fresh water, comfortable beds in boXes raised from the ﬂoor,
are an important part of this work for the animals, no matter how short
a time they are to be kept alive.

We have a matron living in the main house, and she has an assistant
living with her. Pains should be taken to have the matron in sympathy
withthe work and not merely a machine-like individual whose whole ob—
ject is to earn her salary. She must have feeling without being morbid,
and she needs great self—control and patience—not on account of the four-
footed animals, but to bear with the many persons she has to deal with
who seem to be able neither to reason themselves nor to listen to reason
when the welfare of dogs and cats is in question. I sometimes wonder if
there is any other charitable work which attracts so many unreasonable
men and women, as a sheltering work for animals. '

We have a night watchman who does some of the cleaning and keeps
the dogs quiet, not with a whip but by speaking to them kindly when

they are restless, and in some cases letting a homesick dog out of his ‘

kennel into the office or kitchen, allowing him to follow the night watch-
man as he goes about his duties. In winter we have enough heat to keep
the rooms where the dogs and cats sleep comertable.

When we started our work, ten years ago, we hired a small house
and shed with a very small yard. We engaged a man and his wife to
live in the house and attend to the work. The growth of the work has
been continuous and very extensive. We are now occupying ﬁve houses
and a stable. in the city, and a Country Annex in Dedham, nine miles out
of Boston, where we have a home of Rest or Vacation Home for Horses.
We are employing ﬁve women and eleven men, one of them a veterinary
doctor. To assist us in our work we have an ambulance for dogs, and a
gasolene runabout for cats.

We are establishing branches of the work in different parts of the
city and suburbs as fast as money comes in to; our treasury sufﬁciently to
enable us to do so. These branches are established either in the house
of Someone who can spare room enough to receive the animals, in which
case we pay the person who does this from four to seven dollars a week,
according to the amount of work she has to do, or in connection with
settlement house work, when the room is given us. .Our agents call at

4




11

’3

these branches or stations Once a day to get the animals that are carried
there and take them to the headquarters.

I am not telling this to boast of our own work but to encourage
othe1s who a1e begihning, o1 wishing to begin, such a work. What we

. have done in Boston I ﬁrmly believe can beb done in any large city, and

the same on a smaller scale in any small city or town.

Two years‘ago we asked the Mayor of Boston to give the work of
collecting unlicensed dogs to the Animal Rescue League, knowing that it
was not ca11ied on humanely by the city dog- catcher and we have two
efﬁcient, trustw01thy men going out eve1y day with an ambulance and
two ho1ses to collect dogs that me out on the st1eets with no colla1s or
collars that show no license numbe1.

We keep all dogs that we 1eceive, unless very sick o1 Vicious, ﬁve days,
and always a limited numbe1 of those that me desirable for homes an in-
deﬁnite time, until we can ﬁnd just the right homes fo1 them. We keep
some of the best cats and kittens, (usuallyb from twenty to thirty ) to place
in good homes, and the 1est are put to death. If any of the cats 1eceived
come to us in such a way that we think they may have been lost or stolen,
we hold such cats long enough to give an owner a chance to reclaim them.

We are so careful where we place dogs or cats that one 'man made
the remark when coming to us for a cat,—“ I adopted a child once, and
had less trouble getting it than I have had in trying to take a cat from

. you. ' ” We felt complimented rather than otherwise.

W e let no dog or cat go out without the payment of a dollar. This is
protection for ourselves and for the animals. We very rarely place any
females. With a dog we always, f01 the dollai, include a new collar
tagged with the Animal Rescue League address, and a leash, otherwise
we found that those who took dogs we1e likely to put off buying or mark—
ing a colla1 until they felt su1e the dog was satisfactmy, and they would
use a piece of rope tied Iound the dog? 8 neck fo1 a leash.

If visito1s a1e ye1y paiticular to watch their chance to get an ext1a
good dog, we tell them we expect a donation of from two to 0ﬁve dollars.
This put a stop to our being troubled by a class of men who thought they
might get a good dog of us fo1 nothing and sell him, and who were con-

'stantlyCD Visiting the kennels on the lookout fo1 a well bred dog. taking up

ou1 kennel man s time and distu1bing the dogs. We feel that there 1s no
leason why those who am perfectly well able to pay $25 01 $50 for a
good dog and would give the p1ice without question in a dog sto1e, should
not give a cha11table borganization a few dolla1s perhaps one ﬁfth what
theyD would pay elsewher.e If a dog 01 cat is got fo1 nothing, it is valued
acco1dingly."'Eve1y one taking a tDdog or a cat from us has to sign an
ag1eement paper, a copy of which may be seen in cm exhibit.

We send out postal ca1ds making inqui1ies about dogs and cats we
have placed, and get many ve1y inte1esting leplies.

We have alwavs avoided two mistakes that are fatal to the success
of such a wo1k. We are not careless about ou1 ﬁnances. We keep an
accurate account of every‘ sum we receive and spend, however small, and
acknowledge even 25 cents in postage stamps if they are sent us.

F

O

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

ONE OF THE CAT ROOMS IN THE BOSTON ANIMAL RESCUE LEAGUE.

We do not keep a large number of dogs or cats alive or giVe a large
number away. Our object is to prevent band to release animals from
suffering, and lessen the g1eat number of those that have no one to care
for them. We think that death when humanely administered is not an
evil, but a blessing to all living c1'eatu1es that are of no use or comfo1t
to themselves or to the world, band we are certain that it is no comfort to
dOgs or cats to be herded togethe1 even if well fed.
vidual homes and care and are miserable without it.

We have a regular system for every part of our work and record
every dog, cat, kitten and puppy received, with the address of the person
sending or bringing it.

At Pine Ridge, Dedham, ou1 Country Annex, we have a Home of
Rest for Horses. The principal object of this Home is to give vacations
to the horses of men who cannot afford to pay, or who can pay but a
nominal sum to rest their horses. We take lame horses, horses with
Sore backs, horses that are a little tired, or very tired. When we get a
horse that we do not consider ﬁt to go back to work, we have a Horse
Rescue Fund expressly fo1 the pu1pose of buying such horses, and we
do not allow them to leave our Home alive. We give them a few weeks
~of comfort, then a merciful release to make room Ofor another that needs
our care. ' I

We take other animals, and birds, whatever may be brought to us,
and one may often see in our Country Annex a happy family of horses,
, dogs, cats, goats, rabbits, pigeons, all of which have been brought to us
for special reasons, needing shelter, and for special re easons are kept with
us for a time.

They all Want indi- ,

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

_ There are many organizatiOns for-the relief of men, women and chil-
dren in every city, but no city or town should consider its charitable or—
ganizations complete until it has provided one comfortable place where
homeless, undesired, neglected, injured, lost animals of all kinds can be
taken and humanely cared for.

Some one may be asking—“ How shall I go to work to’ form such
an organization?”

I think in every city the way must differ somewhat, but on general
principles I should say—ﬁrst ﬁnd a dozen or ﬁfteen reliable men and
women who are willing to act as ofﬁcers, managers or directors, and
choose those whose names will inspire conﬁdence in the work. I say men
and women because observation has convinced me that the best work is
done where both men and women consult together. '

Get a treasurer at once who is a man or woman well known to be of
good standing, a lawyer if possible.

Find a place where the work can be started, then get an estimate on
what it is likely to cost per week for the ﬁrst year to carry it on. You
must have a practical plan to present to the public before you are in con-
dition to solicit donations of money and members with their membership
fees. You can present this plan through the daily papers, and by printed
circulars, always bearing in mind that an indeﬁnite proposition does not
count for anything. I repeat that this plan must be practical. If you are
proposing a Home wherein you intend to keep alive all the animals you
receive; if you are going to try to cure diseased dogs and mangy cats,
, and place out in homes all the female dogs and cats you receive to increase
the number of animals already too numerous, you will not be likely to
get the support necessary to carry on such a work. ‘

No one could love and pity these our fourfooted friends more than
I do, who for their sakes have suffered and sacriﬁced much, yet, seeing
as I do the need of help all about us for human beings, I could not feel it
right to spend money simply to ﬁll up a house 01' two with dogs and cats,
and keep them languishing in partial imprisonment just for. the sake of
(keeping them alive, neither would it be right to limit the work in this
way. I will be kind to them to the last moment; I will feed the starv:
ing mangy dog or cat picked up in the night or early, morning hours, al-
though I know it must die in the afternoon, but I will not try to prolong
the life of any animal unless I feel a degree of certainty that it will be
taken into good hands and given a happy life. Experience has shown me
that for only a small proportion of the thousands of animals We reCeive is
it possible to ﬁnd' satisfactory homes. Better by far for them is death
than a home where they will not be made comfortable.

Those who think it wrong to take the life of a healthy dog or cat,
should ask themselves the question, “ Is it wrong to take the lives of any
of the lower animals? Is. it right to take the life of thecattle, the sheep,
the foxes, the rats and mice, all intelligent, all capable of enjoying life?”
Where shall we draw the line?

This is one of the perplexing questions of this perplexing world.
Personally, I would not take -the life of, or cause any suffering to the

7 \

 




’..‘1. w“. '1' ~-
p‘ ' ,L
1, ..

us

meanest, lowest creature that lives to serve my own ends, not even in the 1
cause of what they call science, but when they are so numerous that they
cause the more powerful animal, man, to feel obliged to war upon them,
I would everywhere establish organizations of men and women who will
make it their object to see that these undesired animals, also the animals
that are killed for man’s food or wearing apparel, are granted, at least,
the been of quick 11nd merciful death. I think I could not bear the suf-
fering I am brought in contact with did I not hope 11nd even trust that
beyond this brief and clouded existence there mav be another world where
these faithful companions and helpe1s of man whose sad 11nd pleading
eyes seem to tell us of an impiisoned soul within, may come at last to
thei1 own completion and find a place )VllOlC they “3111 no longer be 111 the
way.
We, being strong, have no 1ight to cause them suffeiing for any 1011-
'son whatever. They ale at 0111 111010) It 1s sad but it is true that 11
quick and merciful death 1s often the g1eatest boon we an g1ant them.
A shelter fo1 animals, a rescue work 1s not so much to save life
a as to save suffering.

 

If the town, city or village where you reside has no shelter to which you can carry
the animals you wish to get rid of, or those you may ﬁnd that have been deserted, in
the name of humanity you should either put them mercifully to death yourself or get
some trustworthy man or woman to do it for you. On no account ask a boy to do this
work.

Two ounces of chloroform will be sufﬁcient to put to death a cat or kittens, though
it is better to drown kittens in a pail of lukewarm water.

To chloroform a cat it is not necessary to have an absolutely air tight vessel. If
a little air is admitted the animal dies more easily, going into a sleep without suffo-
cation. Place the cat in a box or ﬁrkin, or put a tub over the eat when it is eating
from the ﬂoor. Saturate a soft cloth or a sponge with the chloroform. When the cat
is asleep put the cloth over its nose and mouth, wetting it with a little more chloro-
form, then cover again and leave the cat in the box an hour, or until the body is stiff.

When drowning is the method used be sure and weight the bag heavily, and if '1
using a pail keep the bag from rising at all to the surface either by holding it down
with something strong or placing over it another pail that will ﬁt into the one con-
taining the water. -

.Dogs can be most humanely killed by shooting unless they are quite small, but
only a very sure marksman should be employed to do this.

To desért a dog or a cat and leave it to “ take its chances,” is not only cruelty to the
animal but to human beings who may have more pity than you, and will suffer seeing
a starving, unhappy animal looking for some one to take care of it.

 

 

Printed by the ANIMAL REseUE LEAGUE, 51 Carver Street, Boston, Mass. Single copies, free; 12
copies, 15 cents, 50 copies. 80 cents; 100 copies, $1. 00; postage extra.

 

 

 

 

, 1 I " ‘ 1 V ‘1
:1 *' x 1 1‘ 1 ,.
-. 1, .11 ”A, F 1 A- 1__.‘1_._ )1 , , . , . _ .- .
1 . 1 ~-_ 1 .1 1 1 . , _‘,_‘,‘.»__V__.1- 11.. PM... >1 /—»/ ' —~ ~ . 1 .- 1 mm“,
1 . ,




 

 

‘, ‘ - . A‘ M»-
irliu‘LdJo ‘. I'

 

 

      
 

   
 

 

CRUELTY IS OUR MEANEST CRIME

THE COMING EDUCATION 2

I “How can i teach your children gentleness, //
And mercy to the weak, and reverence for life,
When by your laws, your actions and your speech,
You contradict the very things I teach P"
LONGFELLOW.
“The greatest need of America is more education of the heart.”
HIRAM ,l’O\\'VERS.

“The lack of humane education is the principal cause of crime.”

“Show me the laws of a state for the prevention of cruelty to
animals and I in turn will give you a correct estimate of the reﬁne-
ment, enlightenment, integrity, and equity of that commonwealth’s
people.” HON. L. T. DASHIELL,

Speaker of Texas House of Representatives.

On the playground fence a teacher put a cake for the birds, telling
her pupils of their usefulness and intelligence. and the wrong ofvinjur-
ing them. Next day her most unruly boy ate only half his lunch and
put the other half on the fence. Kindness is contagious and example
is powerful. That fence is now the favorite perch of many birds even
when the yard is ﬁlled with noisy boys. and the unruly boy has changed
for the better. Surely those boys will all be nobler men and better
citizens for the tuition of such a teacher.

\Yhile every child should be intellectually educated it is certain
that education of the heart is even more essential to the welfare of
society and to the individual happiness, and children are entitled to
both.

A noted American has said: “The spirit of cruelty is the deadliest
enemy to a high civilization,” and Humboldt said “Cruelty to animals
is a characteristic vice of a vulgar people.” As all crime is cruel, to
abolish cruelty is to- abolish crime.

The San Francisco Call says:

“Today the Jefferson School is one of the most orderly in all the city.
The children don’t ﬁght as they used to; they don’t stone cats, or tie tin pails
to the tails of dogs, or molest the sons of the Flowery Kingdom. And why?
Because every school child down that way, as soon as he is old enough to write
his name, is made a member of the army for the prevention of all the old evils,
and no blue-frocked brass—buttoned guardian of the peace could ever have done
a tithe of the good that those children have accomplished. For four years the
principal has been organizing the pupils of all the various classes into Bands of
Mercy, and now every child seems proud of his enrollment. There are about
350 members.”

A strict regard for the rights and feelings of whatever has feeling
is the cardinal principle of civilization, of courtesy and of Christianity.
Children are fond of animals, and by no other means can kindness be
so thoroughly inculcated in them as by humane teaching. “I ﬁnd it
the best kind of discipline, and worth any amount of effort,” writes an
able teacher after two years’ trial. Such is the uniform. testimony of
those who teach kindness to animals.

Sir Arthur Helps declares it “a duty to treat animals with cour-
tesy,” and Mr. Rarey insists that “a horse should be treated like a
gentleman.” The cardinal doctrine of humane education is that it is
impolitic and iniquitous to: inﬂict avoidable suffering on any creature.
Teach children to do as they would be done by.

“It is not only the suffering of the animal that we are trying to prevent, it
is also the moral degradation of the person who causes this suffering. It is the
ignorant person who is cruel to animals.”——B. J. TICE, A. M.

- /

it
i




 

“I am convinced that kindness to animals is not only a powerful
cause of material prosperity, but also of moral prosperity. Teaching
it need not disturb the routine of the school. One day in the week all
our lessons refer to this subject. In the reading class I choose a book
upon animals, and always give useful instruction. The results are
exceedingly satisfactory.” DE SAILLY.

“Russia, Germany, Norway and almost every European nation
has experimented with this instruction until it has become a matter of
statistics that humane education lowers the criminal record.”

MRS. REYNOLDS.

“This teaching kindness to animals may seem a simple thing; but the more
one looks into its merits the more penetrating this spiritualizing inﬂuence proves
to be, causing a change of conduct, inspiring justice and compassion in the
place of selfishness and cruelty; training the mind to apprehend, and the heart
to sympathize with the needs of the lowly creatures who form the theoretical
object lesson of such surpassing interest to the young; obviously the ‘protecting
sympathy’ which a child may be taught to feel towards its helpless dumb com—
panion, may in after years inspire the life of the philanthropist.

“How much such teaching is needed is demonstrated by the incredibly cruel
deeds perpetrated by children even of tender years, which call forth neither re—
monstrance nor reproof from parent or guardian.” MISS G. KENDALL.

A teacher in Syracuse said: “Nothing ever helped me so much to
manage these rough boys as teaching kindness to animals.” In two
large cities have “tough” districts been civilized by the same means.
Any teacher can, in a weekly talk of only ﬁve minutes, impress upon
pupils the rights of animals and the duty and advantage of kind
methods in using them. Why not do so?

It is more a matter of character than of animals, and the chief
object of schools should be to make good citizens. “Goodness” is
merely kindness, and kindness produces happiness and peace.

In his preface to an admirable essay on education Mr. Cyrus
Pierce asserts:

“Merely mechanical education is no security against immorality and crime.
That facts show that crime may increase at the same time with increased atten-
tion to education—the common education of the schools; that this is the case to
some extent in New England; and for the reason in part that the common
education of the schools has in it too little of the moral element. We cultivate
the head more than the heart. That there is hence a call upon teachers, com—
mittees, parents and all friends of true education to make a larger outlay for
moral instruction, assigning to it in our schools the high place its importance
demands.” '

We appeal to all educators of youth—a class whose power and
responsibility are greater than that of any other, to adopt at once this
beneﬁcent instruction, to teach children that animals have rights which
they should respect, that cruelty is contemptible and degrading, that
kindness is the greatest promoter of happiness, and that justice, mercy
and compassion are the noblest of all virtues.

Into the hands then of the teachers of the public schools of
America is committed as into those of no others this noble task of
training a generation moulded by the principles of this “Coming Edu-
cation.” If this recognition of the sacred rights of the animal world
is clear in the soul of the teacher, if in his or her vision of the things
that constitute personal character at its best are these ﬁne and generous
impulses of kindness, mercy, thoughtfulness for all that lives with the
capacity for pain or pleasure. the children daily feeling the power of
such a teacher’s life will be fashioned into the same image.

The vitally important work for us is the humane education of
the millions of boys and girls who are to, be the future citizens of
the state.

Compliments of THE AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
Fen’way Station, Boston

 

' ‘ new» Effﬁﬁimak T m-

 




