HOW TO TREAT CATS.

[i’eprz'm’edfrom “ T/ze House/201d.”

Those who know and value the domestic cat are often astonished anti
distressed by the neglect, if not the positive cruelty, with which it is treated
by many who are fairly kind to dogs and other animals.

There are mothers who carelessly let their children accept cats for pets,
and who then take no heed of the poor creatures, except to vote them nui-
sances if they have not perfect manners, though they may never have devoted
one minute to training them. They complain that their cats are not clean in
their. habits, and yet provide nothing which will suggest cleanliness.

A pan half ﬁlled with dry earth should be kept where a cat can always
have access to it night or day. With care there need be no trouble. ‘

Many persons never caution their children to treat their cats kindly, nor
explain what kind treatment is; they eat their own meals with unvarying
regularity, but do not notice that the poor cat is thin; and in reply to any
hint on the subject complacently answer that feeding a cat spoils it for catch-
ing mice, and that it is quite able to get its own living; that to kill mice is
what it is kept for.

These persons do not trouble themselves to ﬁnd out whether there are any
mice to kill, or if there are, whether they are ever within reach of the hungry
cat ; nor do they stop to consider that a cat enfeebled by neglect and starvation
is not in the best condition to successfully catch its prey. It is said that star—
vation diminishes a cat’s sense of smell. Above all, they forget that mice are
endowed with instinct, and can detect the presence of a cat on the premises

 

 

 




 

by their sense of smell and of hearing, and are, therefore, wary and less
easily caught as soon as the cat becomes a settled inhabitant. ;,

Cats should be fed regularly, and should have a supply of fresh milk as
well as meat and a variety of other food. Oatmeal, bread, etc., can be
added to the milk. Sour milk is likely to produce digestive troubles. Many
cats are fond of asparagus, celery, corn, and will eat other vegetables. Good
authority states that a cat should have meat in small quantities once a day,
Liver is not a good diet for regular use and should only be given about once a
week and should be boiled. It is important that raw meat and ﬁsh given to
cats should be perfectly fresh, and care should be taken to remove the bones
from the ﬁsh, -

A dish of water should be left where the cat can always get at it. The
dishes from which a cat is fed should be kept perfectly clean. Whenever
possible, a cat should have access to grass, as sickness is often prevented if
she can have it in time. In case of ﬂeas, it is recommended to sprinkle the
cat’s basket or box with ﬂowers of sulphur.*

When a family is leaving for the country in the summer, in the business
and excitement of going, in many instances the poor cat is left without a
thought. It does not put itself forward as a dog would, but retires from the
noise and confusion, and if not at last shut up in the house by some heedless
person to literally starve to death, is left to be a lonely wanderer around the
only place it knows as home; hungry, thirsty, and more miserable than any
one can guess who from observation has not learned the degree to which
these poor creatures pine for home life and companionship, their natures
being essentially loving and domestic.

We have not yet reached the highest form of civilization. When we have,
no respectable family will venture to neglect, in such a heartless manner, any
helpless dumb creature.

But those who do try to move their cats when they go away quite often
end by losing them. Frantic with fear, they jump out of the ill-secured
baskets in which they are to be carried, or, if they arrive at their destination,
they are at once let out to wander at will over the new premises, whereupon
they set out on a tour of search for the old home, and are miserably lost. A
little care, kindness, and the exercise of common sense will avert all this.
Baskets with open slats at the top and well fastened are very good to use for
tame cats, as sometimes during the journey it would be possible for the owner
to take the cat from'the basket and hold it. A full grown cat which is at all
wild or likely to run away if let out, can be moved in an ordinary rough box,
of which a sort of cage can be made. Turn it on its side and screw slats

 

*The best way to rid a cat of ﬂeas is to use carefully a ﬁne tooth comb. When this cannnot be done use best
insect powder. Place the cat on a large square of unbleached cotton cloth, then puff the powder into the fur with
small bellows that comes with powder. Do not puff the powder on the cat’s head or face as it will get into the
eyes and nose and cause irritation. Draw the cloth up around the cat’s neck, hold it for a few minutes until the
ﬂeas are stupeﬁed, then comb the cat with a ﬁne comb, beginning at the head.

A dish of hot water should be ready in which to plunge the ﬂeas as they would otherwise revive. Brush the
cat’s fur very carefully and wipe with a damp cloth to be sure no insect powder remains for the cat to lick off, as
that wOuld make her mouth sore and cause illness. A large newspaper can be used, but cloth is better because

it can bedrawn around the cat’s neck.




over the front. The cat can be put in with a little pan of ﬁne earth before
the last slats are put on; if they are screwed 'on they will not frighten it so
much as if they are nailed.

The slats can be far enough apart to allow of putting in food and water,
and the cat will be happier than it would be if it could not see what is going
on around it. The box should be lined so that the animal will not be injured
with any rough or jagged surface or with heads of nails which may have
been left in it. A leather strap can be attached so that the box can be easily
carried, and it can be taken into the car in which the owner of the cat travels.
The sight of some one it knows will render it less frightened. Do not com-
mit the cruelty of sending a cat or any animal by express, but take it with
you, and then you can personally see that it has the attention such a helpless
prisoner needs.

In any case it is very important that the box in which the cat is carried
should be strong enough to resist injury from other boxes or articles of
baggage.

When the new home is reached have the cat let out very gently by one
person in a quiet room with the door shut. Feed it there, and reassure it by
petting and kind words. Let it remain in that room at least twenty—four
hours, then gradually let it investigate the new premises, taking care that it is
not frightened. Do not let it go outside the house at ﬁrst, and on no account
let it remain out at night.* '

If these directions are really carried. out, and the cat is well fed and kindly
treated, it will soon accustom itself to its new quarters. Cats are timid
creatures, and it is extreme fright—often only two well founded—that
makes them frantically ﬂee away from new places. In cases where a house
is closed, and the cat cannot be taken with the family nor any other good
home found for it, the only right way left is to humanely end its life. This
can be done by the use of chloroform.

HOW TO CHLOROFORM A CAT.

Have ready measured in a bottle two ounces of good chloroform; that
which comes in one pound bottles direct from the manufaeturer is best. If
you are not sure of the strength of the chloroform, take three ounces to avoid
failure. Beside the chloroform, have ready some old soft rags to pour it on,
two rugs or pieces of carpet, some bricks or other heavy weights, and an ova1
foot-bath or a bucket, or box, the former being best, owing to its shape.
There is said to be less suffering if a little air is admitted with the chloroform.

Select a quiet place where you will not be interrupted; spread one of the
rugs, put the cat gently down on it, and divert its attention with a saucer of
milk. Then come quietly up behind it and put the foot-bath tub down over
it without taking the saucer away, and be careful that the edge of the tub
does not come down on its paws or tail. Let some one be pouring at the

 

* Never force a cat to go out at night. Many are as fond of shelter at night and in cold weather as ourselves,
and in the country, at the time when birds are rearing their young, it is especially important to keep cats in all
night, as it is in the early morning hours that the birds are caught bythem. Some watchfulness is needed in the
day also at this time if we care to preserve the lives of our useful friends, the birds.

 




same time the chloroform into the rags; tuck them quickly under the edge of
the tub, put the other rug over it, and set the weight on top.

Let the cat remain at least half an hour, or until it is quiet and unconscious,
then take it out, and place it head downward in a bucket of water for half an
hour more, as an additional precaution against its coming to life again. Bat
53 51mg 2‘0 give ezzoag/z (Mania/772 ,- to give half a dose would be cruel. If these
directions are accurately followed, it is perfectly easy to humanely end a cat’s
ex1stence.

Sometimes it is necessary to kill humanely a vagrant cat, which seems too
wild to be touched. On no account let any one run after it or try to catch it.
It is useless, and adds to its misery and terror. Speak very gently, and let
it see you put food within its reach, withdrawing yourself to a distance. By
degrees it may let you come near and at last put your hand upon and
stroke it. i

It sometimes happens that a cat connot be tamed sufficiently to dispose of
it in a merciful way by means of chloroform, but if all such attempts fail, a
gun heavily loaded with large shot would kill surely and quickly; but this
must be the resort only when no other means can be used, and always (/0726
5}) a ski/fa! marksman.

Do not allow a pistol or riﬂe to be used, as there is danger that the cat will
only be wounded, and ﬂee away to suffer, perhaps for a long time.

Young kittens are sometimes difﬁcult to kill with chloroform. The proper
way is to drown them before their eyes are open and within a few days after
they are born. Take a bucket rather more than half full of lukewarm water ;.
put in the kitten, and then put another bucket of water as far as it will go
into the ﬁrst. Do not drown them in the presence of the mother, and be
sure to leave her one alive.

To take all from her at once is a cruel thing, and she is liable to have milk-
fever and be seriously injured by it. It is better to remove only one or two-
kittens at a time, thus leaving the others to gradually diminish the milk
supply of the mother.

Cats vary in disposition as human beings do, but there are very few which
will not respond quickly to kind treatment. In beginning with a kitten, it
will be found that kindness will beget conﬁdence. It gives an air of home-1
likeness to a house to have in it a large, sleek, ﬁreside cat, who feels the
security that all respectable members of a family should feel.

MARY F. LOVELL.

 

“ Price 40 cents a hundred, postage paid. Address Mus. MARY F. LOVELL, World’s and
National W. C. T. U. Superintendent of Department of Mercy. Jenkintown, Pa., U. S. A.”

 




