THE LAW OF KINDNESS IS THE LAW\OF HAPPINESS.

 

THE COMING EDUCATION.

“How can I teach your children gentleness,
And mercy to the weak, and reverence for life,
When by your laws, your actions and your speech,
You contradict the very things I teach ?"~L01'lgfell0u7.

“The greatest need of America is more education of the heart.”
. . —H2’ram Powers.
“The lack of humane education is the principal cause of crime.”
. —Ool. J. l’V. Oottrell, Supt. Detective As.s’n.
“The charm of a man is his kindness.”—Pr0v. 19:22.

Crime is always cruel, and cruelty is criminal.

On the playground fence a teacher put a cake for the birds, telling
her pupils of their usefulness and intelligence, and the wrong of injuring
them. Next day her most unruly boy ate only half his lunch and put the
other half on the fence. Kindness is contagious and example is powerful.
That fence is now the favorite perch of many birds even when the yard
is filled with noisy boys, and the unruly boy has changed for the better.
Surely those boys will all be nobler men and better citizens for the tuition
of such a teacher. ' ~

While every child should be intellectually educated it is certain that
education of the heart is even more essential to the welfare of society and
to individual happiness, therefore children are entitled to both.

A strict regard for the rights and feelings of whatever has feeling
is the cardinal principle of civilization, of courtesy, and of Christianity.
Children are fond of animals, and by no means can kindness be so thor-
oughly inculcated in them as by humane teaching. “I ﬁnd it the best
kind of discipline and worth any amount of effort,” writes an able teacher
after two years’ trial. Such is the uniform testimony of those who
teach kindness to animals. .

A noted American has said: “The Spirit of cruelty is the deadliest
enemy to a high civilization,” and Humboldt said “Cruelty to animals is
a characteristic vice of a vulgar people.” As all crime is cruel, to abolish
cruelty is to abolish crime. Crime and cruelty are twins.

The San Francisco Call says :

“To—day the Jefferson school is one of the most orderly in all the city. The
children don‘t ﬁght as they used to ; they don’t stone cats, or tie tin pails to the
tails of dogs, or molest the sons of the Flowery Kingdom. And why? Because
. " every schoolchild down that way, as soon as he is old enough to write his name, is
made a member for the army for the prevention of all the old evils, and no blue—
frocked brass-buttoned guardian of the peace ever could have done a tithe of the
good that those children have accomplished. For four years the principal has been
organizing the pupils of all the various classes into Bands of- l‘llercy, and now every"
child seems proud of his enrollment. There are about 350 members.”

Sir Arthur Helps declares it “a duty to treat animals with courtesy, ”
and Mr. Stanford insists that “a horse should be treated likeJa gentle-
man.” The cardinal doctrine of humane education is that "It is» ininolitic
and iniquitious to inﬂict avoidable suffering on any creature. C'miﬂgen
should be taught to do as they would be done by in all circumg ances. ‘\

“It is not so much the suffering of the animal that we are trying to prevent is
the moral degradation of the person who causes this suffering. It is the ignorant
person who is cruel. to anlmals.”~—B. J. TICE, A. M., Superintendent of Schools.

KINDNESS IS RIGHTEOUSNESS IN EXACT RATIO. ‘

Please read and circulate. . [OVER]

 




“Kindness to animals is not a mere sentiment. but a requisite of even a very
ordinary education. Nothing in arithmetic or granntiar is so important for a child
to learn as humaneness. As a discipline it is one of the most valuable subjects.”

—Jonrnal of Education, Boston.

“If children in school can be made to understand that it is just and noble to be
humane even to what we term inferior animals, it will do much to give them a
higher character and tone through life. "——John Bright.

“This teaching kindness to animals may seem‘ a simple thing; but the more
one looks into its merits the more penetrating this spiritualizing inﬂuence proves to
be, causing a change of conduct, inspiring justice and- compassion in the place of
selﬁshness and cruelty." \

“How much such teaching is needed is demonstrated by the incredibly cruel
deeds perpetrated by children even of tender years, which call forth neither remon—
strance nor reproof from parent or guardian. ’ ‘—]l]iss G. Kendall.

“The inﬂuence for good of humane teaching in our public schools cannot be
measured. Many thousand children are having the law of kindness and charity so
impressed upon their minds that they will, all their lives, be better men and women
therefor and have greater reverence for the Creator and His creations.”

—The Syracuse Daily Herald.

“Since our last issue twenty acts of cruelty to animals, by boys, have been
reported, such as beating a sheep, kicking and stoning a cat, kicking a cat to death,
beating and wounding pigs, violently beating a horse on the head when tied, etc.
The responsibility of parents and school teachers is serious and should be realized."

\ —The Animal I/Vorld.

“Some of my teachers have united humane education with nearly every exer-
cise, including those in arithmetic, penmanship, civil government and singing. All
that is needed is a little enterprise."—~Snpt. of Schools, Sheﬁield, Mass.

“Russia, Germany, Norway and almost every European nation has experimented
with this instruction until it has become a matter of statistics that ‘hiunane educa-
tion lowers the criminal record.’ "—lllrs. Reynolds.

“I believe it to be not only the legal duty but also the moral duty of every
teacher to use his inﬂuence in behalf of considerate treatment of animals."

Hon. F. A. Hill, Scc‘y ﬂfass. State Board of Education.

A teacher in Syracuse said : “Nothing every helped me so much to
manage these rough boys as teaching kindness to animals.” In two large
cities have “toughﬁ’ districts been civilized by the same means. Any
teacher can, in a weekly talk of only ﬁve minutes impress upon pupils
the rights of animals and the duty and advantage of kind methods in
using them. Why not do so ?

It is more a matter of human character than of animals, and the chief
object of schools should be to make good citizens. “Goodness” is merely
kindness, which always produces happiness and peace.

The U. S. Govt. has requested that Bird Day with apprOpriate exer—
cises and instruction be observed each year in every school, in order to
protect and preserve our birds, which are indispensable to vegetation.

Teach children to befriend all weaker creatures, to care for stray dogs
or cats, and give them food and drink ; to provide fresh water for birds,
dogs, etc., in summer, and to feed birds often in winter ; nobility of char—
acter is thereby cultivated, and much cruelty prevented.

We appeal to all. educators of youth—aa- class whose power and respon-
sibility are especially great, to adopt this beneﬁcent instruction, to teach
children that animals have rights which they should respect, that cruelty
is contemptible and degrading, that kindness is the greatest promoter of
happiness, and that justice, mercy and compassion are the noblest of all
virtues.

1

, ' (yu‘m'y-lof C. A. l-iAMLIN, Syracuse, N. Y. 20 cts. per hundred postpaid.
Aiso “F014

of Whipping,” “Cruelty of Check Reins,” “Barbarity of Docking,"
“A Plain Sermon," and at 30 cents, “Facts for Drivers.”
Send stamp for samples.

 




