 

 

\llVI8ECTlQN.

BY MRS- M- W- ROUSE-

A PAPER G‘II’E’A' BEFORE THE WOJIANS CLUB
OF PEORIA, ILL,

And subseqwntly, by Bamaézﬂ, before the
PEORIA COUNTY SCIENTIFIC ASSOCIATION

 

DECEMBER, 1894.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 




 

‘ A. ’r-v rr—V'v" 'v'
I: :1 . - :31?
_ 7"?”

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

. [ . . ‘ ' A ' .‘ A ~ 1‘ ‘. ,. '- ‘.‘ ‘ A'>‘;1 . 4
I " {/ﬂ'f/ 1/,7/9' , . _,

,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SF
' :Axﬁ‘ il-‘ai‘x'éﬁr "

J.

 

 

 

7.

22mm" of Dr. B. 4.1-?(1254012. 0.13/9/“5‘0/ (7i ?/- A

 

 

 

 

m' .,.

 

, '1

C I "I (1/: [A ' ‘ A, _: 7‘ I, "- ("a ‘ ‘ - ' AA" ,1. , ,

 

 

 

 

 

 

(“/ﬂ/f/ /
\ ..' \ |

.> ‘~..\\

I
I

W“. W

ererz

 

 

 

1

”13;

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

    

 

 

   

VIVISECTION.

[EXPERIMENTS ON LIVING ANIMALS]

BY MRS. M. ~W. ROUSE, OF PEORIA, ILL.
“Pain in man
Bears the high mission of the flail and fan;
In brutes ’tis purely piteous.”

Man in his relations to the lower animals occupies practically the position of a.
god. On him they depend. for food, shelter and protection. With him are the
issues of life and death.

At man’s behest whole species of living creatures have been swept out of ex-
istence; silent are the ﬁelds and forests once vocal with the chatter and call, and
drum and whistle of bird and beast—now forever silent or driven far from the
haunts of man.

How desolate the plains, once peopled by the lordly buﬁalo and bison, the elk,
the antelope, the deer, and the wild horse, which once roamed in happy, joyous
security over their green expanse. All these and countless millions more have
been swept out of existence; and their fate is a happy one compared with those of
their kind still permitted to live, the patient, toiling, and too Often neglected
and abused servants of man. Who has not looked with pity on the horse, as with
no will of his own, and too often badly fed and lodged, he bows his neck to the
harness, and bends his immense strength to the service of his master; or the vast
number of cattle and horses and sheep who Shiver through the winter on the
western plains, or die of cold and starvation. I know of no sadder sight than the
groups of dead horses and cattle which dot the snowy plains of the far West, and
tell te the traveller the story of man’s cruelty and greed; and no sadder thought
than this—~that of all the multitude of beautiful and harmless wild creatures who
still inhabit and add to the charm of the world, all fear and dread and shrink from
man, as their natural enemy and deadliest foe.

But it has remained for the Vivisector to add the darkest shadow to the alreadv
too deeply shaded picture.

And what is Vivisection ? According to the Century dictionary it is “The dis-
section of the living body; the practice of anatomy alive or experimenting on liv-
ing animals, for the purpose of investigating some physiological function or path-
ological process which cannot otherwise be determined.” My own idea of vivi-
section, and I believe it to have been that of a great majority of people, until

 

‘ “"— - =t~"'é:’-2;ia;a>‘ *£~mma~éw»:e «www.mnmm erw , » ~ - -

    




 

..tzt7m¢bnmﬁ‘azi«iiiﬁ5mm-‘I ‘- “‘-

pmume. «_._., . .m a ,

VAN, <,,-'-r:ai'n'~ '1‘

recently, has been that, here and there throughout the \Va,'l'](1. a man devoted to
science, and deeply imbued with a desire to beneiit his kind. has. with the great-
est care and tenderness, and unlimited use of amesthetics. performed upon ani-
mals experiments in accordance with the above definition: but a better acquaint-
ance with the subject has convinced me, as it has many others. that this deﬁnition
does not cover the ground. and that the extent and nature of the practice is not
generally known.

That there may be instances in which vivisection is practiced in accordance
with the above supposition is undoubtedly true. But it is also true that it is now
practiced in hu 1dreds of laboratories. universities and schools throughout the
world, in many instances with only a pretence of care for the sufferings of the
animals used. and in many more with none at all—the object being not the bene-
ﬁt of mankind but the gratification of scientiﬁc curiosity, the hope of fame from
the discovery of some new thing, the desire to confute the claim to discovery by
rivals, to conﬁrm the discovery of others or to keep up with the times. In schools
it is utilized simply as object lessons. to impress upon the mind of the student the
facts of the lecture or text book: because as one student expressed it, “VN’hat we
see, we know.” ‘

The range and variety of experimentation and consequent suffering is most
graphically described by Dr. Matthew Wood, President of the American Anti-
'Vivisection Society, in an article in the Journal of ZOOphily, of Philadelphia.
He says, “It is not alone the cutting of: the ﬂesh that is called vivisection, but the
brain-burnings of Goltz, the bakings alive of Bernard, the crucilixions of Mante-
gazza, the electric stimulations of Brown—Sequard, the freezings alive of J. C.
Coleman, the disease-producing feeding of animals upon the putrid lungs of hu-
man beings of Dr. Klein; the inserting of tubes into arteries, as advised and
practiced by Stephen Hales, of Teddington; the covering of the shaven skins of
animals with varnish of Drs. Kleinberg and Prolatus; the injection of putrid
matter into the blood vessels of Dr. Saunderson; the starvings of Dr. Chossatt;
the drownings and smotherings of the commission of professors from the Royal
College of Physicians and Surgeons, London; stopping wind-pipes with corks;

keeping animals forcibly under water until almost dead, then, by methods as cruel,.

restoring them to consciousness; holding the heads of Guinea pigs in basins of
quick-silver; cramming the mouths and larynxs of dogs with liquid plaster of
Paris until it solidiﬁed—such practices as these, although knives are not used and
cutting unnecessary, are catalogued under the heading of Vivisection.”

Under the same head are enumerated the attempts to unite animals by binding
their bleeding and previously excoriated bodies together—although the excoria-
tions made with the knife are not nearly so painful as binding the creatures in
the necessarily constrained position the length of time it is thought necessary to

make the experiment a success; the repeated pourings of boiling water over dogs

until they are parboiled. and also of turpentine, and then setting ﬁre to it, as
practiced by Dr. Wertheim, are likewise regarded as vivisection; so also the
ﬁlling 0f animals with illuminating gas and igniting it as it escapes through the
natural Openings (the invention of one of our own countrymen); placing animals
for hours under the inﬂuence of compressed OXygen until they are in a state of

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

n7




 

 

 

 

._ 3——

tonic convulsion, or instead of attacks so extreme as. this, so stiffened that one
may lift the animal by one of its hind feet as if it were a block of wood; ﬁlling the
stomachs of animals with boiling water as told by Dr. Carpenter; tying them in
impervious rubber bags, deprived of air, after the manner of Prof. Parchutis;
squeezing sensitive portions of the bodies between steel pincers. like Mantegazza;
subjecting them to temperatures that raise the internal heat to 115 degrees
Fahrenheit, as has been so frequently done by experimenters; dipping animals in
boiling petroleum; clamping natural vents; keeping the ears of living dogs in the
stomachs of others until the gastric juice eats them away; suffocating animals in
over-heated hatching ovens until violent cramps attack the hind parts, as prac-
ticed by Prof. Lutchinger; starving animals, requiring eighteen days and over to
do it; inserting glass globes ﬁlled with croton oil through incisions made in the
skin, sewing up the incision, and when healed, breaking, with a blow, the glass
capsule so that the corroding oil may spill through the various tissues—that the
process, or development of different stages of inﬂammation may be studied for
days; tearing out the nerves of the kidneys, after the manner of Grutzner; destroy-
ing the brain with mineral acids like Herman; injecting into the various organs
of animals all sorts of irritants and poisons as is so common; injecting into blood ves-
sels arrow-root, potato starch and cal-mine, to cause spinal paralysis and paralysis
of respiration; experimenting upon animals with snake poison, the poison of‘rabies,
the germs of cholera, and all the infectious diseases; experimenting in reference to
respiration with the bodies of the animals. immersed in water, heated to a tem-
perature of 159 degrees Fahrenheit, as done by Dr. Sihler, Fellow of Johns Hep-
kins University, Baltimore; experiments for the purpose of producing artiﬁcial
keratitis by passing threads through the eyes of cats and frogs, as practiced by
William Councilman, M. D., of Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore; making
contusions on dogs, that is, bruising and breaking their muscles by pounding
them with heavy mallets, or striking the joints with large stoneware jars, or dis-
locating legs and shoulders, tying limbs over their backs, tearing out all the
skeleton adjoiningarticulations; fracturing bones by torsion or twisting, as prac—
ticed by an infamous French surgeon, for the purpose of learning how best to ad-
minister to his prOspective patients his favorite nostrum massage; dropping dogs
from great heights in order to break their bones to produce lesions of spinal cord,
dislocation of joints and contusions of the ﬂesh, as practiced by Dr. B. A. Wat—
son, of Jersey City; dropping strong acids into the eyes of animals and searing
their brains with white hot irons.

Mr. Reid in his speech in the House of Commons, April 4, 1883, referred to
one particular set of thirty-one experiments, on as many dogs.‘ The process was
as follows: "The dogs were starved for many hours. They were then fastened
down; the abdomen was cut open, the bile duct was cut out and dissected and a
glass tube was tied into it and brought outside the body; the duct leading to the
gall bladder was then closed by a clamp; then various drugs were put into the
intestines at this upper part. These experiments were performed without ounces-
thetz'cs, the animal being under the inﬂuence of camera ”

Dr. Berdoe says, “For eight hours the wretched animals had to. endure this aw-
ful agony, worse than the horrible torment known as gall stone; aggravated every

 

-~ ‘ ',21¥34V*§’§WWWIWW ., . 7 .. my; .

 




. ...—“...“.-- “Wu“ ...—“m. -

 

l

 

now and then by the re-mnrning of the wound in the abdomen for the purpose ( f i
injecting the drugs into the opening made in the duodenum." ‘

This is an experin'nént that includes every variety of suffering in itself: starva-
tion, terror, i ramped position in being for eight hours in the torture trough. the
pain of external incision, the pain of having the ll’ltcua‘lllllt‘s and peritoneum ex-
posed to the air, the pain of the (,lclicate dissection of the internal orgam. the
pain of closing a duct with an iron clamp. the burning: sickening pain of passing ii
a glass tube into the bile duct. worse than the unutterable agony that in gall

stone is due to a small, smooth concretion pz’tssii‘ig down this same tube.

Dr. Leftingwell, of New Jen-icy. in a masterly paper entitled. "Viviseetion."
published in Lippimwtt’s iii:t;,m',3s'nr. August. lull-l. says:

“There is a certain experiment. one of the most excruciating that can be per-
formed, Which consists in <::><p.,>sin;r the spinal cord of the dog for the purpose of
demonstrating the l'unctien of the :t-pinal nerve. At present all the prelim-
inary cutting operation is generally performed under the inliIu-nce of ances-
thetics. and it is When the animal has partly recovered from the severe shot-l; cf
the operation that the wound is ‘e-opened and the experiment begins. it was
during a demonstration of this kind. by i‘vlagondie. before the introduction of
ether, that a circumstance occurred which one hesitates to think possible in a per-
son retaining a single spark of hunnrity or pity. "l. recall to mind." says Dr.
Latour, who was present at the thin}. "a ])t.()i' dog. the roots of whose vertebral

lav bare to demonstrate Bell's theory which he

nerves l\:l.agendie desired to ,
claimed as his own. The dog. run3
the implacable knife and tl'irew its

sciten his murderer and ask for mercy. l, confess l was unable to endure that

Cl; ted and bleeding. twice escaped from under

 

 

l L
front paws around Magendie. licking. as if to
heart-rending spectacle."

It is probably i111"el"ei'eiit-:e to this experiment that Sir (,‘has. Bell. writing: to
his brother, informs him that he hesitates to go on with his ii’ivestigations. "You
may think me silly,” he adds, "but I :annot perfectly convince myself that I am
authorized in nature or religion to do these cruelties. "

The records state that in following this experiment Magendie sacriﬁced 4.000
dogs to prove a theory and then 4,000 more to disprove it. Add to these th:
dreadful things done in the Pasteur and other institutes throughout Europe anl
America, where the living brains and eyes of animals are the culture garden for
Virus of rabies and other diseases, and where a recent Visitor t) one of them Dir.
T. A. Williams, of London,] saw hundreds of pigeons. rabbits. cats. dogs. fowls,
horses, cows, etc., in all stages, from those just inoculated to others sulfering all
the horrors of rabies and other diseases said to be more dreadful than tha dis—
ease in its natural state, and where thousands of animals are constantly undergo-
ing agonies which I will not barrow your feelings by describing, and we have
some idea of What Vivisection is a.1;l hay practiced. Its extent is something
appalling, when we consider that the University which does not give class dem-
onstration; of some of these things is behind the times; that it has bacon) a
fashionable fad, and one school 'or college feels obliged to have it because
others do.

Mr. Orr, of the Springﬁeld, Mass, High school, says it is the custom in nearly

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

“W
‘_' ‘ ,

x, _.




Scenes in the Institut Pasteur as witnessed by Herbert J. Reid. F. S. A.. F. R. S. L. (London) a.
Feb. 22 and '23, 1894. Exact copy of illustrations in Mr. Reid’s pamphlet describing his visit. No
anaesthetics were given the animals.

Rabbi/ bar/,na’for TWpan-ning.

 

 

1““

 

 

Rabbi! Trent/med.

Skin cut open and kept back by a metal framework. Piece of skull removed by circular saw.
exposing the brain. into which the hydrophobia virus is injected. N0 anaesthetics.

 

si

 

 

  
 

    

\_ l I)
I / f/

”/.////I/////////////////’/////////£’////’////////

 

 

 




 

1‘

 

 

 

.._")._...

every High school in the state to dissect cats. and what is true of Massachusetts is
true to a greater or less extent of other states and it is recommended that pupils

be furnished with scissors. knives and fozceps th 1t they may experiment in pri-

vate. and occasionally make ﬁeld exnusions 101 living animals for the pu1pose,
such as frogs, mice. cats, 1eptiles, etc. , and a hand- book for such purpose has been
prepared and published. - , *

Ti e extent to which these ex1eriments are being carried in foreign count1 1es
is amazing, and makes one wonder if there is aGod in heaven who cares for his
creatures. The records show that in Lyons, France. 711,000 animals were thus
destroyed by Prof. Schilf in ten years. Dogs became so scarce that they were
bred for this purpose. There are farms in the United States where guinea pigs,

, pigeons rats, mice, rabbits and other species of animals are bred for this purpose;

one in Connecticut and one in Chicago, 111., have recently been the subject of
newspaper articles.

There is, also, 1 mother large and ﬂourishing industry—the making and .saleof
instruments used by vivisect11rs, from the torture trough to the ﬁnest needles
made for piercing the eyes and nerves, some Of which it would seem to require
infernal ingenuity to construct. Those in use at Clark University, Worcester,
Mass, are valued at $50.11)). '

There are laboratories, about 210 in nu nber, in many of the principal cities of
Europe, and also in our own country, where the number of victims who perish by
slow torture is almost countless, and whose unvoiced agony if given expression
would ﬁll the world with one wild shriek of pain.

Now why all this unrequited misery to the lower forms Of life? Because man
is possessed of the lust for knowledge; the desire to ﬁnd out obscure and hidden
things, regardless of the cost. Our ﬁrst parents for the sake of knowledge of
good and evil were willing to barter Eden and all its joys; and in order to wrest
from Nature her secrets, Man has ever since not only been willing to part with.
his dearest and best, but has traversed sea and land, burrowed deep into the
bowels of the earth, plunged his hands into the warm and shrinking Vitals of the
living animal, torn out the aching nerves, bruised and exCoriated the shrinking
muscles, ﬁlled the palpitating veins with poisons, torn limbs and eye s from sock-
ets—and not content with the dumb animals has carried his expe1 iments into the
ranks of his own fellow beings. This is no new thing.

Galen practiced vivisection 400 B. C., and in all ages it has been more Or less
extensively followed. In earlier times, hundreds of slaves and criminals were
thus sacriﬁced—six hundred 110' mg the number of victims vivisected by Her-
ophilis alone, as given by Tertullian. That such things should have been done in
an age when every man’s hand was against his neighbor does not seem so strange,
when man dwelt in walled cities whose ga ues were adorned with the headless
trunks and dismembered bodies of luckless citizens and unfortunate enemies; when
men were racked and ﬂayed alive and dipped in oil and impaled on stakes to
light the garden, of an emperor; when even a great painter racked his model that
he might picture the death dew on his brow. But that they should occur in this
age of light and humanity, seems incredible. Yet such is the shameful fact.
There has been no break in the agonized procession which has drifted down the

 

 




‘~~".z.—Jsr—~——._.——’— _ _. __ _‘7___ _____

xﬁﬂluﬁm um” ” 7, WWW-Mmmzsv- ~ s . , » ——-———--——~—7 —»_ - , Mg“, ##‘g ,_,_ -,, , ,

n

. x

. ages; rather it has grown larger and more piteous as man‘s ingenuity has grown
greater. It is true that human subjects are no longer openly used but that they
will be unless public opinion is aroused, there can be no doubt. Those of you
who heard the address on Vivis‘ection before this Association last winter, will
remember the demand of the lecturer for human subjects. . it is also a fact. very
little known, I believe, that there was a very persistent attempt made last winter
to get a bill through the Ohio Legislature turning criminals condemned to death .
over to vivisectors to be used in experimentation. Almost nothing was said about
it in the papers, and its passagewasonly prevented by the vigilance of organized,

9.

energetic anti-vivisectionists.

If anyone claims that I have over—drawn or over-stated anything. I wish to say
that, on the contrary, I have not done the subject justice. It is only a brief
glimpse that I have given you into this chamber of horrors.

There is a book of 1-18 pages, called "The Nine Circles,” compiled by G. H.
Rhodes of London, and published through the generosity of Miss Frances Power
Cobbe, by the Victoria St. Society for the Protection of Animals from Vivisection.
comprising, without comment, a long record of experiments given by the oper- -
tors themselves, in their own language. The perusal of this should convince any-
one that exaggeration is impossible. Bear in mind it is the experimenters’ own
account, without a word of comment by anyone else. It will also be said, as said
the boy to whom I was talking of these things, “What’s the diﬁerence ? It don’t
hurt the dog. " But it does hurt the dog.

It is popularly believed that anaesthetics are always used in experimental
research, but the truth is, if we are to believe the vivisectors, they are very sel-
dom. used. Of the four stupifying agents employed in operations of this kind,
ether and chloroform alone produce unconsciousness to pain, but they can be used
in only a small per cent of cases because of their disturbing inﬂuences on the cir-
culation, the respiration and the nervous system. The effect also of these drugs,
as all know. is not of long duration; while the animal is often stretched upon the
torture troagh for hours, and in sum: animals, death is proluced by their use in
55') short a time as to make their use impracticable. Morphia is not an anaesthetic,
but a narcotic producing immobility but not insensibility. Curare, which is the
drug most generally used, and which Tennyson calls the “hellish ooralii” para-
lyzes the nerves of motion, so that the subject is immovable and voiceless, while
the sensitiveness to pain is only increased. Of this drug Claude Bernard, who
used it very extensively, says, "It causes the most atrocious suffering which the
mind of man can conCeive."’;' Dr. Borel, a Swiss vivisector, writing to the Pall
Mall Gazette says, “Every one accustomed to the laboratory, to physiological or
pathological experiments, knows that animals when vivisected suffer greatly and
that till they die.” a - i .

Prof. Virchow, the great German vivisector says, in the Westminster Gazette:
"I do not for a moment suggest that vivisection does not cause pain and suffering.
and with regard to the plea that anaesthetics are used, it must be remembered
that some experiments extend over daysand weeks and. months, as, for’instance,
Prof. Victor Horsley, in the London Lancet, has recorded experiments of his own
in which a young dog after having a gland of its throat cut out, was killed 160

 

 

 




q as

» '-'~~~ ;__»uar‘:"nu.ow4m»wnu~ vaM'vvn “A ‘- . T.- 1"” * -

‘5

days afterward. and a donkey died seven months after the experiment") Now the
impossibility of keeping those creatures under the inﬂuence of anaesthetics-during
all this time is apparent. One common method. according to the records, is to
bind the victim securely upon the torture tr‘ou .111, so as to make escape or motion
impossible. and then to cut the vocal co (15 so that t re) or Lee of the victim may not
be painful to the 022.02‘am2 and .<},)r(:((1102’.rs. In the use of anaesthetics the item of
expense is also to be ccnsiderod. and it is hardly likely that a man like Proi

Schiff, who sacrificed Tl). (100 animals in ten years. took the time or incurred the
expense of ana esthetizing them. Instances are related of the poor bleeding vic-
tim in its frantic struggles b1eaking its bonds and begging piteously for mercy.

For this reason cats are not favorite subjects since ethey will use their claws; while
poor Towser only begs in vain, And let it not be supposed that death always
soon ends the pain. The same animal is often experimented on for days and arti—
ﬁcial respiration is used to prolong life—quoting from the published records.

The beneﬁt to man of all this diabolism is a much mooted question, and one on
which the doctors themselves disagree most decidedly. Those in favor of vivisec-
tion claim that all advances in medical and surgical science aie due to its prac-
tice—as the discovery of the ciiculation of the blood by Harvey; of ademinal
surgery, transfusion of blood, the elixir of life, consumption and hydrophobia
cure, the chemistry of nutrition and digestion, etc. Its opponents, men of" equal
eminence, many of whom have practiced vivisection themselves, assertwith equal
conviction the reverse. We have Harvey's written testimony to the effect that
his discoveiy of blood circulation was dueto anatomical observation and-exam'n-
ation, and study of the constiuction of the veins and arteries. Vaccination is
another claim, yet Jenner says that its discovery was made without arsingle
experiment upon a living animal: while it is well known that ether and chloio-
form were ﬁrst tried on themselves by their alleged discoverers, Sir. James J.
Simpson of England, and an American dentist, Dr. Morton of Boston. The elix 1
of life and the cure for consumption have gone to the limbo of bursted bubbles,
probably soon to be followed by the new cures for diphtheria and snake bite; and
it is an open secret that Pasteur no longer uses virus for inner lating persons sup-
posed to have been bitten by mad animals (so many died in consequence )f inocu-
lation), but a little milk and warm water. .

Mr. Phillip Searles of Paris, asserts that there is a steadily growing feeling
against Pasteurismon the part of medical men in France. Dr. Lutaud declares
Pasteur “does not cure hydrOphobia, but gives it.” And moreover. wherever an
Institute has been erected the disease has greatly increased both in dogs and
men, according to the ofﬁcial i'etui'nsa-not by vivisectors but ofﬁcials in-authority.

Dr. Dolan-seems justiﬁed in his assertion, that so far from lessening the sum‘ of
human misery, Pasteur has increased it; while Dr. Charles Bell Taylor, F. -R. C.
8.. of England, describes it as the most extraordinary delusion which has afﬂicted
men of science for years. Aneuri'sm, the transfusion of blood, abdominal surgery,
&c., 820., had been practiced on men long before their so-called discovery by
vivisectors. .

How di'1 we obtain our knowledge of valuable d1ugs ‘9 Dr. Lauder Brunton
says, “Almost all our exact knowledge of the action of drugs on'the various

 

 

 




\. W4....‘-.. ._... - ._.__ "1,. ,. . , .. N _ ,_ , , ‘
an.“ n . . ‘.n-<-\4. *nE-pmnmjummvv-mk .va. w-“ , “7

 

organs of the body have been obtained. by experiments on animals. Granting
this to be true, though probably it is not. what is the great gain 2’ It was many
years after the discovery of Peruvian bark as a fever speciﬁc. by a missionary.
before the secret (fits action was found out. and then it was no more efficacious
as a cure than before and the only gain was the satisfaction ol'a scienti ccuriosity.

So many- and so great are the ditferences ol‘ the action of drugs upon the lower
animals and ourselves that it seems ridiculous to explain the latter by Experi-
ments on the former. .

Apart from the entirely abnormal conditions into which a vivisected animal i<
thrown. as compared with an ordinary patient, there is scarcely a single drag of
any efﬁcacy in the whole armory of the physician which. acts upon the various
species of. lower animals as it acts upon the human being; and not only this. but

 

drugs act in the most diverse manner on different animals. and even upon differ-
ent species and varieties of these. as for 'nstance. a ﬁeld mouse and a house mouse.
\Vhen using frogs. for example. it is not enough to remember that drugs act dif-
ferently on run”. fr:mpm'asria and ramt esculrnitit. but that spring and autumn will.
show different results.

It is doubtless very annoying to the physiologist to ﬁnd that Nature does not
make every species of heart, brain. liver and stomach perform its work in pre-
cisely the same manner, but the fact remains that she does not. No two blades
of. grass are exactly similar; how much less the internal economy of widely differ-
ing kinds of animals ! Let us illustrate this by examples. Belladonna is adeadly
poison to man, yet birds and rabbits eat it with impunity, and it has very little
effect on horses and donkeys. Atropine is so powerful that it is administered to
patients in doses of 1—120 to 1—40th of a grain. yet no less than ﬁfteen grains are
required to kill a rabbit. Citric acid (the acid of lemons) is a powerful poison to
cats, rabbits and other animals. yet lemonade is never fatal to human beings except
when it is adulterated. Colocynth acts violently on dogs and rabbits, but it has
very little action on horses. sheep and swine.

Goats, sheep and horses eat hemlock with impunity, yet it killed Socrates.
Henbane—as its name implies—is poisonous to fowls, but it has little or no effect
on sheep. cows. or pigs.

Dr. Wood. one of the best writers on medical science of the day. says the proper

 

study of therapeutics is empiricism, or clinical science. And he can only learn
his business by the bedside of his patients. In short, as Pope says, “The proper
study of mankind is Man.”

There is a growing sentiment both in this country and England against the
practice of Vivisection, both on account of its cruelty, its uselessness. and its
inﬂuence on those who practice and those who witness it; and it is believed that
the practice would be stopped at once were it not for the oft repeated assertions
of its advocates that it is indispensable to the advance of medicine and surgery.
and to the fact that so few people, comparatively, are informed as to its nature 1

 

 

and extent. With regard to its uselessness we have the following opinions of

 

 




 

   

Rabbit paralyzed by hydrophobia inoculation , as seen by M. CHARLES MAYET in the Institut Pas-
teur. Exact copy of drawing from the Paris journal L‘ltlu-stration, 1891. Seen also by HERBERT J.
REID. of London, Feb. 22 and 23, 1891. Mr. Reid says. “The wretched animals were lying on their
sides slowly dying of paralytic rabies, their hind legs extended and powerless but their eyes turned
pleadingly toward the visitor.”

 

. ~ ~ . ‘.
._\
.IMZf—

,...

y. - 2
Q‘ ' \€
\ x x; \_

;\ \st. \

5‘ \ SEN/'3" Q
‘ ‘ MK \\

 

 

 

Of this poor dog suffering from inoculated rabies M. Pasteur remarked to his visitor, M. CHARLES
MAYET, “He will die to-morro 1,0.” “M. Pasteur kicked the barsof the cage and the animal dashed
at- him with bleeding jaws, then turned and tore the litter of its kennel. uttering a piercing and plain-
tive cry.”—L’s Illustration. 18.91.

 

 

1- ‘ ~»-v..‘3=r;'§z§¢—.9=1 2.. . 3 ~. _‘ . 2 -. [A ,;-~.__~*j 7- a"; . ' ~4w'" ‘ " "" ’

 




 

 

x. bill?!

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

some 07 the host physicians. surgeons and sc1entiﬁc men of our time:

Dr. J. M. ‘.Vt3\ art Pre st. of the Peoria CountV1Ill.)S ienuihe Asan“V1Visec-
tion 15 horribly cruei and practically useless.’

M. Inuise [1311 ~1ton. M. D.,(LIIIIIE)11. N. .I.: 'In my student days even I reg a rded
Vivisection as a useless and! brutal feature of medical ed'. cation.”

R. B. McClezwy, M. D., graduate of Hahnnei’nan C)Ilei'e 1L, Chicago, writes:
"I am oppose d to Viv isection. I consider it brutal and use ess. I

Albe1t L ﬂinowell M 1).. Summit N. I.,_ in Lippmcoif s I[’l(j((7lll Aug. .188

'The icsult of expeiimentation in many directions is to plunge the observer into
the abyss of uncertaintv. ”

WI tthew Woods, M. D. ,Philadelphia. 71.. in a 1ecent letter: “The minds of
some of the best obserV e rs are lost to medicine because of followinw the false trail
of V'fiV'isection

Dr. .I. F. VVilkie of 0511‘ .10511. Wis.,g‘rad_11ate of Bush MedicL (‘olloge e writes.
1Ian.. 1891: "As a physician I consider Vivisection futile and or no Lonso1uence to
the medical profession.” . '

AT REST AT LAST.

 

A Vic/ML of I‘aﬁg'or‘s Ilyrlmp.’m')m. (fopiedfnam ' 'A/L Institute of Preventive JIM/icing at Work

1 France.”

V
1‘1

Henry Sewall B. So. Ph. D., Univ. Mich. , Ann Arbor: “It must he confessed
that the results Obtained (11 om more than ninety experiments on sharks and skate)
are far fro 11 formin r as soluti 1n of t 1e problem 111Vest1011ted 7’

Wm. B I). Blac‘11Vvood,M. I.).P111lud lphia. Pa. . 111 a published letter Marc
‘37 1801: "It is pthicallV'1111possiltle that othei trh. 11 1111 isiea 111110' and false doc-
trines should be the 1 esult ol the cruel 1113111 do 0 (1111'.1 VV'01l101' Vivisection. ”

Dr. Reverdy B. Stevart, a pI 11Vsici1—L.1 of thirty succesmul Vea1s’standin9' in
\Varren, Pa. writes: ‘ Away VV 1th the absurd theories that inflict upon helpless
dumb animals such an a Inount ofs Liferiiia in the name of science 1'01 so
l1ttle good I”

I. W. Timmons, M. D., Winona, Minn., in a published letter, May, 1891: “The
claims of ‘scientiﬁc investigation’ must be met with the fact impressed that no
Wood to humanity that cannot be obtained in other,0 gi‘ent er and humane ways, is
to be gained by inhuman cruelty inflicted on our dumb friends.”

Henry. J Bigelo N, M. D., Professor of Surgery 111 Harvard University, said in
an add ss before the Mass.- Medical Society, referring to experiments bwfor‘e
students: “Better that I or my friend should die, than protract exists nee tnr 0110 h
accumulated years of torture upon animals Whose exquisite suiferi in; we cannot.

 

:"'-’«="=‘r"-—b‘":£:9v¥m~-m 1' sm- ~ :. . 1,11. «1 A. ~ «~,;~ -. 1r . — n . - .7 .
. . L. L . _.1 .- . , ,. r. nVV, l ' _ '1, _» ,'mv

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

fail to infer, even th-ougl'i they may have neither voice nor feature to express it."

Bowman‘s Standa1d VVorx 011 Physiolo 1y: Vivisections upon so complex an
organ as the brain a1 e ill- calculated to lead to useful or satisfactory results.“

1716 Lancet (London) April 2‘1, 1888: "The result of experiments upon the lower
animals is d11ectly at variance both with clinical observation and daily
experience."

Sir ( ‘l1arlcs Bell, on the Nervous System: "The opening of living animals has
done 1n01e cto perpetuate error than to enfo1ce the cjust views taken from anatomy
and the natural sciences.

Speech of Dr. Chas. Bell Taylor, F. R C. S. at Nottingham. Nov. 1(1' 1892:
"No good ever came out of vivisection ever since the wo1ld began; and in my
humble opinion no good ever can.

Dr. Edwa1d Ber,doe M. R. C. S. , in the London (rlobc of Aug. 3. 189:2: "l have
been t1ying ior many years to ﬁnd out What the blessings me which vivisection
, has confer ed on the 1ace. but I have not succeeded.”

Jas. McCaulev.A . ..M. M. D. in his Prize Essay: ' 'MOIe useful infmmation can
be obtained by obsei v1n¢1 the force of the heart as indicated on the delicate dial
of. a balance chaii. than f1om all the experiments of Vivisecto1 s.

Prof. Lawson Tait F. R C. S E. foiemost abdominal sur 1eon of England. and
once a vivisector. at a me etingb in St. lames’ Hall. Londoo. 311373121891: 'ln the
art of surgery, the p1actice of vix isection has done notl1in_:_1 but Wiong.”

Dr. Morgan Davies (Hounsditch), in a letter to MiSs Frances Power Cobbe, Oct.
122, 18922: "Not only could we dispense with it (vivisection), but i ﬁrmly believe
we should get on much more rapidly anal securely without it. ”

John H. Clarke, M. D, ac, in “Our Meanest Crime," a paper read at the
Church Congress at Folkestone, Oct. (5. 1892: "So far from vivisection saving
human beings from being experimented upon. it actually ecessitates it.”

Edward Haughton, M. D.. in The Zoophilist (London) Oct. 10.18J3: "I have yet
to hear of a single case of discovery made by experiments 011 helpless animals
which might not just as well have been ascertained by clinical investigation.”

Dr. Edward Berdoe (London) in an address to Ruri-Decanal Chapter of Rugeley.
Staffs, Oct. 15, 1891: "The question is one which the Christian Church cannot
afford to ove1 look the iniquity is of great and constantly nun-easing,1 magnitude "

Dr. F. S. Arnold (Manchestei) i 1 ab speech at Church Congress. Oct..189.2:‘ "[
believe the whole method (expe111ncnts on animals) to be. scientiﬁcally speaking.
absolutely unsound and untz ustwox thy . . . . Vivisection is most surely
doomed.”

John Fletcher. M. D. of Edinburg Medical School. in introductory Lecture,
(London) pp. 11— 1:2: "Duri111 many yea1s’ experience in lectu1ing (on physiolrmy )
. . . I hax e 11eve1 \et found it necessa1y in a single instance to exposea suffer
ing animal fer the purpose of elucidating any point in physiology.”

Such testimony could be continued indeﬁnitely.

And there is still another phase which demands our attention: Leaving for the
moment the consideration of the useless suffering of innocent and helpless
dumb animals, let us consider the effect of this practice on the vivisector and
his spectators. Can it be other than hardening and brutalizing 2" The fact that
the constant sight of blood-shed, death, and the necessary suffering caused by
slaughtering animals for food is hardening to the sensibilities, has in England
crystalized into a law which forbids a butcher to sit on a jury in a murder case.
it is stated that the average student at ﬁrst shrinks witha sickening sense of
repulsion from these scenes and sounds, and not unfrequently faints, and begs to
be excused, but is soon taught not to give way to such "chicken-heartedness”—~
such “sentimentality”—and so the ﬁne edge of his sensibility is blunted. He
learns to endure, to tolerate, and in too many instances to enjoy. It is told of a
class of young men students for whose instruction and beneﬁt some one’s pet, a

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I —..
43-3

-. «0.1;:

"1'»'H¢'~"'c'.-:':e¢s ”my. “9”?“me m"; . , . .~--,,~, " . t :i r . .. 7:11:

_11__

King Charles spaniel, had been brought to the room, that the intelligent and sen--
sitive little animal, feeling something dreadful in the air, stood upon its hind
feet and begged so piteously that the young men entreated to be allowed to pay
its price and let it go. But this was put dcwn with a strong hand by the profes-
sor and the demonstration went on. "Watch the students at a vivisection” says
Dr. J. Bigelow,‘late professor of surgery at Harvard Medical school: “It is the
blood and suffering, not the science, that rivets the attention.”

Mantegazza, wishing to study the physiology of pain, performed upon a great
number of helpless creatures experiments causing the most intense and excru-
ciating agony which his ingenuity could invent. He speaks of it as “atrocious” .
and also states that these experiments were continued with “much. patience and
extreme delight for a year.”

The records show it is not without reason that charity patients" and others
dread the hospital—believing that in many instances they are used as subjects of
experiments by their attending surgeon and his staff 'of medical students. The
statement of a leading medical journal that a much larger per cent of patients
treated in their homes recover than those in hospitals, would seem to justify this
dread; and it is not without reason that the question was asked, as the heading
to an article in the New York Tribune, “Does Vivisection Lead to Crime ‘3”

Under this heading July 6, 1893, the writer further asks, “What is the under-
lying cause of that mysterious outbreak of homicide among physicians shown by
the criminal records of 1892 ‘9 When Parkman was murdered by Dr. Webster in
November, 1849, it was an event so monstrous and unprecendented that for a
quarter of a century it was the subject of comment. But look at the strange
record for 1892: First, Dr. Cream, a Canadian physician, executed in London,
1892, for the murder of young women. Object: amusement; the pleasure of kill-
ing. Second, Dr. Graves, American physician, found guilty of poison, in Color-
ado, 1892. Object: money. Third, Dr. H. M. Scudder, American physician, son
and grandson of eminent clergymen, charged with the murder of Wife’s mother, in
Chicago, 1892. Object: money. Fourth, Dr. Robert W. Buchanan, found guilty
of Wife poisoning; New York; 1892. Object: money. Fifth, Carlysle Harris, med-
ical student, executed May, 1893, at the age of twenty-three, for atrocious murder
of young wife by poison. '

Now, nature is ever a game of sequence; there is no effect without acause. The
great crimes of history may be often traced to the education of youth. It is just
a century this present time since France was shaken with convulsions and drunken
withblood; but behind the atrocities of ’93 the studentof history will see a popu-
ulace watching the melted lead poured into theﬂesh of Damiens, or the wild
horses tearing him asunder in the presence of Louis XV. and his court. That
demoralization of society which preceded the down fall of the Roman Empire,
was largely caused by making men familiar with torture. Inhis history of
European morals Mr. Lecky says that horrible as was the spectacle of gladia-
torial combats these games were perhaps still more pernicious because of the
callousness of feeling which they infused through all classes.

Is it not possible then, that the petrifaction to pity to which educated young
men must arrive before they can murder, for gain, those who have conﬁded in

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

them, has been caused by their familiarity with the torture of. animals, without
other object than a gratification of scientiﬁc curiosity '3 Such is the growing be-
lief of a large number of the best minds and hearts of the world. Such being the
case, the question, Is the practice of vivisection justiﬁable ‘3 is being asked all
over the world. In England for more than twenty years there has been continu-
ous agitation of this question and twenty years ago an act restricting the practice
was passed. But “restriction” has proved so unsatisfactory, that an elfort is now
being made to prohibit the practice entirely. Among those who condemned vivi-
section in their writings and Speeches—and further sign alized their detestation of
it by aid and encouragement to Miss (Jobbe and the Victoria St. Society, during
the last years of their lives, were Cardinal Manning, the Earl of biliaftesbury,
Lord Coleridge, the Lord Chief Justice of England, Canon Wilberforce, Rev.
Charles H. Spurgeon, Robert Browning, Lord Tennyson, Thomas Carlyle, John
Bright, Edwin Arnold, J as. Marticneau, Sir Henry Sumner Maine, the Arch-
bishop of York, with other bishops, lords, and a long list of other noble names.
John Ruskin resigned his professorship at Oxford because a vote facilitating
further experiments in vivisection had been passed. - a

A recent attempt to establish at Chelsea, Eng, and also in lndia, a so-called In-
stitute of Preventive Medicine, similar to the lnstitut Pasteur, has been met with
a storm of indignation, and a memorial with “3,000 names was lately presented to
the home secretary against licensii'lg l’oreia'n vivisectors. The anti-vivisection

‘r‘y

societies of Europe—sixty—ﬁ‘ve in number-— ex tend now from East Prussia to Italy.
There are two in America at the present time-but they have correspondents all
over thchnited States. Two years ago a bill for the prohibition of class demon-
strations (experiments to illustrate facts already known) was presented to the
Pennsylvania Legislature; it passed the Senate but was lost in the House, on ac-
count of the protest of a company of physicians who hurried to Harrisburg and
defeated it by gross misrepi esentation of its real provisions. It is probable that such
an one will be presented to our own legislature lillinois‘} in the near future, or to
the people at large to be voted upon. Petitions to the effect are already in cir-
culation by the lllinois Anti-Vivisection Society. All the societies in the world
now demand total prohibition. The best papers and magazines are open to anti-
Vivisection articles and many of our best men and women are becoming interested
in this movement. The late Prof. Swing, and Dr. Phillips Brooks turned their
faces steadily against vivisection. tobert Ur. Inge 'soll roundly denounced the
practice recently in a lecture at Washington, D. U. Philip G. Peabody, one of
ﬁoston’s wealthiest men, Joseph M. Greene of Dorchester, and the presidents of
leading state humane societies are giving time and means in aid of the anti-vivi-
section cause; a long list ol U. S. physicians and surgeons opposed to the practice
is being steadily augmented. [We can furnish all the names to anyone desiring
them.] The public is becoming enlightened by a very extensive distribution of
literature and it is believed that when its horrors are fully understood, vivi-
section and burking will be looked upon with equal detestation.

Man in his arrogance long believed that the world and all things in it, were.
made for his special use and beneﬁt. A nobler, wider and more just View is now
taking its place—that mankind is only a unit in the vast universe and possibly
of no more account in the scheme of the Great Architect than many other of his
works and that every created thing has nOt only its place but its rights. -

This being true, is it not, then, far better to endure the “ﬂail and fan,” than
to purchase relief from pain at the expense of the torture of innocent and helpless
dumb animals, the hardening of heart of their torture rs and that delnorallzation of
character which must come to all wno are Willing to benefit by the suffering of

others '3

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

-~ ~wv-. "t»?r'?:—:*t“" mar-rh‘ ”V- m Wynmﬂrwrm- v




 

 

PUBLISHED BY THE ILLINOIS ANTI-VIVISECTION SOCIETY, AURORA, ILL,
Anti'Vivisection Print.

 

 




