BLOOD SPORTS CONDEMNED

BY LEADIN G AUTHORITIES.

“ We as a nation may not be able to beat the All Blacks at
Rugby football, or the Australians at cricket, or the Americans
at lawn tennis, but there is one world’s championship which we
undoubtedly do hold, and that is the championship of organised
cruelty to animals in our so—called sports, fox—hunting, stag—

. hunting, otter-hunting and coursing.”——DONALD MACLEOD,
Member British Olympic Council, in Sporting Life.

Fox-hunting.

Daily papers, February mm, 1925 : “ A fox chased by the
Cowdray hounds for ﬁfteen miles sought refuge at House,
near Petersﬁeld, by jumping through a window and up the
chimney ﬂue. Efforts to smoke him out failing, workmen
removed some bricks and the fox was got out and given to
the hounds. In the chimney there were also four live rabbits.”

SIR HERBERT BARKER, in The Observer, March Ist, described
the above: “ . . an act of merciless cruelty which would
be brutal if committed by a savage.” ‘

Punch, February 25th: “ Since Great Britain won the
Great ,War there has probably been nothing ﬁner than the
steady, methodical, scientiﬁcattrition and destruction of this
degraded fox by the Cowdray Hounds, near Petersﬁeld. Over
ﬁfteen miles of cruel country the beast evaded them; and
then, in ﬂat deﬁance of all the laws of civilised hunting, took
refuge in a‘ human habitation. Selﬁsh, impulsive, thinking
only of' its own comfort and careless what inconvenience
might be caused to the unfortunate humans in the house, the
animal rushed up a chimney. Were the Cowdray Hounds
dismayed? They were not. They set their teeth. . . .
I like the picture.”~——A.P.H.

Hare—hunting.

From a description by a boy at Eton College: “ On
Butts Field put up a hare—~r’an left—handed across the
str~eam+squatted——put ’up again———the same circle once
more—~doubled, squatted—«once more put up—«ran left—
handed to farm—squatted—absolutely beat———hounds ran over
her———gOt up—r'an very slowly to allotments—reaching the
stream fell in—was nearly drowned—dropped down on other
side dead beat—hounds came up and killed her. The run of
the season—a wonderful day ! !

SIR THOMAS MOORE (1478—1535) in “Utopia”: “ If the

l

 




 

hope of slaughter and the expectation of tearing in pieces the
beast doth please thee, thou shouldst rather be moved with
pity to see a silly innocent hare murdered of a dog—the weak
of the stronger, the fearful of the ﬁerce, the innocent of the
cruel and unmerciful. Therefore, all this exercise of hunting,
as a thing unworthy to be used of free men, the Utopians have
rejected to their butchers. For they count hunting the
lowest, Vilest, and most abject part of butchery.”

Otter-hunting. ,

LORD WODEHOUSE: “ I am against otter—hunting for two
reasons : that it takes place in the months of May and June,
when all other animals are preserved because they are either
breeding or have their young with them ; and that the otter,
when it is killed, is very often surrounded and headed by the
whole ﬁeld of otter hunters and mobbed to death by the
hounds and men.”

HUNTED FOR SEVEN HOURS. Abridged from The Field:

“ Otterton Bridge—glorious scent—great pace—50 minutes
never a respite—landed—«along the cliff—through an orchard
“under hedge—fox earth. Bolted—fell headlong over cliff
to rocks—looked as if sport was over—but no ! off again—a
ﬁne turn—~hounds. in pool—another ﬁne turn of an hour——
otter over weir—into nine—inch drain—pipem-ﬂooded out—cliffs
again—another fox earth—evicted—along cliffside—water
again—hour’s good sport—our dodging friend shelters in
badger’s earth—another hour’s bolting—~caught by three
hounds—good shaking—broke away—quarry tired—hide and
seek—rabbit earth—«shifted repeatedly—another fox earth——
dug out—killed.”

“ This day must have been the best of the season.”

DUKE OF ARGYLE, in House of Lords: “ He remembered
“once—and for the ﬁrst time and the last—seeing one of the
most exciting sports that he knew of and that was an otter
hunt. Anything more exciting he never saw; but when he
came to the death-with twenty—ﬁve dogs tearing at the
animal’s throat and body and dragging it in every direction——
anything more disgusting he never saw.” From Hansard,
1883.

Rabbit-coursing. '

“On Sunday, March 2nd, I924, about 500 people at coursing
at Morden, Surrey. Forty were boys and girls under 16 years
of age, at least a dozen being under 5 years of age. One
shilling for men and 6d. for women and children was charged
for admission. Betting was openly indulged in. Refresh—
ments were served. Over ﬁfty dogs took part in the coursing,




_ .-.. _~_ ._.A.‘A¥._:;-— < ““56:

,,,,,,

i and sixty rabbits were ‘ broken.’ On a previous Sunday there

were seventy victims. Over twenty vehicles, mostly motor
cars, were parked in the lane adjoining.”———~H.B.A.

EDWARD CARPENTER: 5‘ I have witnessed this vile
‘amusement’ (rabbit-coursing) more than once and it has
always left the saddest impression on my mind—a ring of
yelling boys and men; the hunted creature madly trying
every outlet but unable to escape: its fall, exhausted, into
the fangs of the dogs; the utter heartlessness and the
cowardice of the sport. Let not only it but captive stag-
hunting as well be abolished altogether and made absolutely
illegal.”

MRS. GEORGE CADBURY, Pres. Nat. Free Church C1:
“ Surely no Englishman can consider such disgusting exhi-
bitions as sport It IS sheer barbarism.”

BISHOP OF IONDON . “ A miserable and most cruel sport..’

LORD LAMBOURNE, Chairman, R.S.P.C.A. : “ Rabbit-
coursing is an abomination which should be stopped. It is
veritably a massacre of the innocents. There is no element
of sport about it : it is very rarely a rabbit escapes. Rabbit—
coursing meetings are always attended by bookmakers.
Betting and gambling help, to a great extent, to'keep rabbit—
coursing alive.”

Stag-hunting—Tame‘.

SIR G. GREENWOOD (EX—MP.) : “ I could give case after
case in which a hunted (carted) deer has lacerated itself in an
attempt to leap a barbed—wire fence ; broken a leg, or perhaps
(more mercifully) its neck, in trying to clear a gate or wall;
cut and wounded itself by jumping on a greenhouse or glass
frames ; fallen exhausted before the hounds and been bitten
and torn by them ; sought refuge in a river, canal or pond and
been drowned.” Ten such cases are known to have
occurred in six months with one pack only, hunting in the
Home Counties, and six tame deer were done to death by that
same pack within that period. These cases formed the
subject of questions put by me to the late Sir Henry Campbell-
Bannerman, in the House of Commons. His answer given
to one of such questions was: “If such cruelties are perpetrated
and we can do anything to stop them, I shall be very glad.
I am against cruelty of any sort, whether under the name Of
sport or otherwise. 1 like it rather less under the cloak of
sport than otherwise.”

REV. E. J. T. B. . . in Daily News April, 1920: ' “I
witnessed the hunting of a stag through a southern tow.n
When closely followed by the hounds, the frightened creature
jumped over my garden wall, dashed through the window
of the next house, and fell panting and bleeding on the ﬂoor

 




The hunters came in and dragged it away to be ‘boxed’
and doctored until ﬁt to be hunted again. I have seen the
stag so tame that when uncarted it has turned to lick the
hands of the huntsman. ”

SIR ROBERT PEEL opposed the Cruelty to Animals Bill
in I825 but said: “Compare bear—baiting with stag- hunting
and the former animal had a considerable advantage, because
he was allowed the use of his natural powers and was only
attacked by one or two dogs—whereas the stag was deprived
of his horns which were his only defence against twenty or
thirty couple of dogs by which he was pursued.”

Stag—hunting—«Wild.

LORD COLERIDGE, in Nineteenth Century: “On a bright,
cold, sunshiny October day I started from Lynton across the
moors to Portlock Weir. . .The whole countryside was out.

.They were all intent on one thing only—the death of
the hunted stag. I listened for one expression of sympathy.
I looked for one sign of compassion. I heard and saw none.
The hinds are likewise hunted. They have no weapons
of defence. Nor have they the courage of the male. They
are sometimes pulled down slowly by the dogs. Moreover,
' they are often hunted when they are in kind. An animal.
about to become a mother may, I think, with some excuse
arouse the chivalric instinct in man’

.__——_..———__—

N. B. ———-Humanitarians would greatly help the work of the
League by notifying the Secretary of anyone interested so
that leaﬂets may be sent to them, by purchasing and
distributing our literature; by organising a group of workers
in their district, and by sending information and Press
cuttings (with name and date of paper) of cruel sporting _
incidents, so that these may be followed up promptly.

 

THE GRUEL SPORTS QUESTION.
Leaﬂets, 4 pages, %d. each, 30 for 1/—, post free.
Chase of the Wild Stag. BY LORD COLERIDGE.
, Blood Sports Condemned. BY EMINENT AUTHORITIES.
Morality of Field Sports. BY THE LATE PROFESSOR FREEMAN.
Kllllng for Sport. BY G. BERNARD SHAW.
The Much Mallgned Rook. BY T. S. HAWKINS.

Cruelty In Sport. A letter by DONALD MACLEOD, Member of British
Oly ympic Council.
Another Bad Fox. Reprinted by permission from Punch.

The Drag Hunt and Its Advantages.
Our Sp 'ng Butchers. BY H. W. NOVINSON.
Sport a the Otter. BY J. COLLINSON.
LEAGUE FOR PROHIBITION OF CRUEL SPORTS.

YORK HOUSE, PORTUGAL SrREET, LONDON, W.C.2.
5m/7-2 5 The Botolph Printing Works, Gale Street, Kingsway, W.C.:z

2

 




