O
I”
9
m
7.
D,
I».
2
D
7T
2-
0
Mr
2
N1
9
D
0..
0.
Q.
9
8
9
9
[J
7
0
wit
9
D
7T
9
p
O
[J
L
I
o.
D
2
7r
9
1.

 

 

 

 

SHIL'IEIHHZ) (INV SH'IIAA

'HHHDLVD (IHIEI EIHL :10

 




Reprint of an article which appeared in the “ Surrey Comet.”

 

BIRD TORTURE.

Cruelties in the Capture of Our Feathered
Friends.

PROCESSES OF BLINDING.

“ SURREY COMET ” SPECIAL.

Recent prosecutions in the Police Court at Kingston have focussed
attention on particularly abhorrent forms of cruelty practised by bird-
catchers. Statements were made of a bird having been deliberately blinded
by the use of a red-hot needle, and of birds being “ absolutely smothered "
with that vile, glue-like composition known as bird-lime !

Painful to real lovers of birds as was the evidence given in these cases—-
and letters to the “ Surrey Comet ” indicate that considerable indignation
was aroused—it did not reveal all those wiles of the bird-catchers which
not only Contravene thehlaw of the land, but offend the feelings of all right-
.minded people. The conﬁning in small cages of the little songsters whose
natural element is in the freedom of woodland or ﬁeld may, perhaps, be
passed by with just a frown, but the action of deliberately depriving these
birds of the gift of sight, and that by most cruel methods, is almost past
comprehension. This blinding of birds by the penetration of the eyeball
with a red-hot needle, so as to destroy the optic nerve, is done in order
to enhance the utility of the victimised birds as decoys. Taken on to the
commons, or Wherever the trapper does his work, the blinded bird, hearing
the notes of other birds, chirps the more because it cannot see—Fit may be
that the chirping is the cry for help of an imprisoned, despairing spirit—
and thus are other birds attracted to the traps awaiting them. There are
men who pose as experts in the performance of this blinding operation.
That does not lessen the blatant cruelty of it, and what may happen when
the operation is undertaken, as often it must be, by “ inexpert ” men can
only be imagined. This operation is rightly prohibited by law, and is
punishable by imprisonment, but it goes on, and it is difficult to bring the
torturers to book. '

Birds Kept in Darkness.

But there is another form of blindng which, although perhaps less
deliberate, is hardly less cruel. This other process is a slow one, and it may
be that many months, even years, pass during which the victim slowly

 




loses its sight. It is a case of a faculty being lost by its disuse ; and in this
case the birds lose their faculty of sight by being kept almost permanently
in the dark. Again, this is done in order that the birds may chirp or sing
the more at a time to suit their captors. They are the helpless victims
of men’s so-called “ sport,” and the spirit of competition. Owners of these
wild birds in captivity arrange periodical “singing competitions,” usually
held on a Sunday, each Contributing his quota to the prize-money. To
prepare them for these competitions the birds arekept in tiny cages covered
with a black cloth, or in a lightless room or cupboard, for weeks or months
between each competition, only catching a glimpse of light at such times
as they are fed, watered, or their cages cleaned. Then comes the day of
the competition. The birds are assembled in one place, the coverings
of their cages are removed, and in the unusual atmosphere of light the birds
give vent to their feelings—whether of joy, pain or entreaty, no one knows—e
and the one which sings loudest or most continuously wins its owners blood
money in the value of the stakes. Then the-bird is put back into darkness
.. to await weeks, months, or more, for the next “ competition ” ; and so,
in course of time, the little victim loses its precious gift of sight. Even if
they do not become totally blind, their sight is very seriously impaired.

, Sufferings of Decoy Birds;

Legislation has of recent years advanced to the aid of these feathered
friends of man. An Act of 1925 prohibits the use of blind, maimed or injured
birds as decoys, the use of bird-lime, the bracing or tethering of decoy
birds, and the conﬁnement of birds in cages which do not allow the birds
sufficient room in which to stretch their wings. The penalty for each of
these offences is a fine up to a maximum of £5 AND imprisonment up to
three months. These are punishments which probably bird-catchers are
not sufficiently aware of. The effects of the use of bird-lime have been
shown when prosecutions have been brought in the Police‘Courts—feathers
' almost glued together, resulting in vain, pitiful strugglings to 'ﬂy. The
bracing or tethering of decoy birds is another vicious form of cruelty. A
wire or strap is placed round the body of the bird and attached to a stake
in the ground or a branch of a tree or bush, and only such “freedom ” is '
allowed the bird as will enable it to ﬂutter a short distance in the vicinity
of the traps to which its innocent, eager ﬂutterings bring other non-
suspecting birds to lose in turn the freedom which seems so near to the
decoy bird, but is so far from it.

Injuries Caused by Confinement.

Undoubtedly much suffering to birds is caused by their conﬁne-
ment in small cages. In a recent case two cages measured respectively
only 4 inches wide, 6% inches long, and 7% inches high. The photographs
published in this issue of birds actually injured by such conﬁnement
indicate the effeCts Wings and tails broken, leaving only the stumps

 

 




of the feathers which should be there ; but the pictures do not show injuries
to beaks and heads caused by vain struggling against the bars of the cage,
nor do they indicate the terror felt by the birds. .

Merely for Financial Gain.

It may be difficult to understand the minds of the men who perpetrate
such cruelties as these. At'bottom they may have, or have had, some love
for birds, but the conclusion must be come to that in most cases they are
actuated by merely mercenary motives. There is a ready market, particu-
larly in the East End of London, for wild birds, especially ﬁnches and linnets.
Chaffinches, greenﬁnches, and linnets have a market value. of from half-a-
crown upwards when newly caught; goldﬁnches will fetch from 7s. 6d.
upwards, according to the extent to which they have given up frantic ﬂutter-
ings in the cage~—that is, according to the period that they have been in
' captivity. It is mainly from the East End that the bird-catchers come
to Surrey in search of their prey. The commons between Claygate and
Effingham are particularly favoured haunts. Happily the police and the
Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals are aware of this,
and it may be stated that recent prosecutions were not just the result of
chance meetings with the offenders, but the sequel to earlier observations
A and planned joint action on the part of the police and Inspector W.
H. Bowskin, of the R.S.P.C.A. Lovers of wild life, in whatever form,
will commend their vigilance. And, although this is not a begging article,
may it be added that the work of the R.S.P.C.A. is mainly dependent upon
voluntary contributions. Inspector W. H. Bowskin’s address is 21, Orchard

Road, Kingston.
H .S.C.

 

The illustration shows some of the paraphernalia found by the R.S.P.C.A. Inspectors
in use by bird-catchers. The cages used are so small that frequently the birds beat
themselves to death against the bars or have their tails and wings ruined by being con-
ﬁned in such limited space. On the right are seen the metal pipes in which the lime
snares are carried. When these are stuck into the ground the birds alight on the lime-
covered snares and are unable to release themselves. They are then seized by the
bird-catcher, wrenched off and thrust into the horizontal cage through the stocking-leg
aperture. The inset shows a cage covered with black cloth in which the captive birds
are kept all the week, and brought out only on Sundays to engage in singing competitions,
possibly at public-houses. In this darksome conﬁnement the birds frequently lose
their sight, and often have their wings and tails mutilated, as shown in the inset.

 

Issued by the R.S.P.C.A. Cage Bird Poster Fund; Hon. Sec, Miss M. BRADISH,
95, Park Road, WA. ’Phone : Chiswick 0065.

 




