 

 

the JEirbs’ lane of altruism.

BY J. RILEY CHASE,

(PRESIDENT WISCONSIN SENIOR LOYAL TEMPERANCE LEGION.

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘16:.»

HERE was an island called Ornithoplace. It was a beautiful
spot, surrounded by leagues of the bluest seas, so clear that
one could see many feet into their depths and watch their
finny inhabitants on their dailyrounds of pleasure or proﬁt,
and dotted here and there with such isles as only tropical
seas can boast of. The scenery of the island was of wonderful
beauty. On the west wasa ‘ mountain 1ange,the roughness of
whose outlines was softened by the forests which crowned its
brows. The lowlands were a pleasing contrast of wood and
meadow, with sparklinglakes and limpid rivers carrying their
waters to the seas. Those woods had never echoed the sound
of the woodsman’s axe, and those meadows had never been
trodden by the foot of man in search of a home. It was an example of Nature at
her very best.

To it the birds came every spring. As they were about to go to their summer
-homes they gathered here to spend a few days in discussing all questions of in-
terest to them, and planning for their future welfare, and then went on. And
when summer had gone they met here again to renew old acquaintances, make
new ones, recount the experiences of the season just past, and mourn the friends
who had been taken from them.

As they gathered from year to year, a growing discontent became noticeable
among them, caused by the wrongs which they were receiving at the hands of a
creature called “man.” This creature was a giant in size, almost as tall as the
tallest ostrich, but such a sluggard in his movements! He could but creep along
the earth’s surface. He could not even ﬂy. One would think that he was the
most harmless of creatures, but alas, he possessed occult powers! He carried in
his hand that for which the birds knew no other name than a stick, but with it he
commanded the thunder and lightning. To make the matter worse, he seemed to
have an implacable hatred for the whole race of birds, so that when he saw one
he did but point his stick, and command his thunder, and the liorhtninor came and
the poor thing fell, dead or cruelly wounded.

It had been thought by some of the philosophers among the .birds that this
creature was the crowning act of the creation, but this opinion was scoffed at by
p the great majority of the birds. They well knew the part they were to play in
EtheecODme of the universe, and they would never accept the doctrine that a
creature so heartless and cruel could be the highest and best creation of an all-
' and loving Father. No indeed!

<1
i
it:

 




“gm

As the years went by the murmurings became louder and louder until they

~ couldbe no longer ignored. And one day as the birds were assembled in their

vast convention, old King Eagle arose. Immediately the great gathering became.

mquiet, for the 01d bird was greatly respected and universally beloved. Looking
at them with eyes full of affection, he said:

“Ye children of the birds. It is with great sorrow that I have heard how
you have been ill-treated by a creature called “man”, the more so as I do no t
know what we may do to help ourselves or to better our position. We are help-
less in his hands, for though he looks so innocent he seems to be in league with
the Evil One. These wrongs are much harder to hear when we think of the
service which. we render to him, and for which we receive only persecution as
payment. It is true I ﬁnd it necessary to take alamb or kid of him for my
dinner now and then', but that is only an attribute of my royalty. You smaller
birds veryg ladly repay him a thousand fold in all you do for him. '

“As I have said, I do not know what we can do. ButI have thought of a plan,
and perchance it may meet with your approval. Choose you now twelve spies
and send them throughout the length and breadth of the land, for behold it is
very great. Perhaps they may ﬁnd some place where this creature has not gone,
and if so be,we will go there, for he has forfeited all right to our protection.”

The plan met with favor among the birds, and they chose the twelve spies.
As these were preparing to start there was a great commotion in the camp, for
each bird had some word of advice to give, or a farewell to say, but at last all was
done, and the twelve came before the old king for his parting words of advice
and blessing. And he said:

_ “Ye children of the birds. Be strong. Be very courageous. Fly through-
out the length and breadth of this great land, before us and see if there be any
spot where this creature does not live. If so be that ye ﬁnd one, spy it out well.
See if there be mountain fastnesses in which I may build my nest in the seclusion
I love. See if there be forests for those of our friends who love their quiet, and
meadows for those who would build in their dewy grasses. See if there belakes
and streams for those of our number who love the water, See if there be insects
and fruits and seeds enough for our wants. In short, see if you can ﬁnd any place
in which we may raise our little ones in peace and safety, and where our matins
may arise every morning, and our vespers come up every evening like sweet in-
cense to the God whom we love and worship.

“But if, and I fear it, ye ﬁnd no place wherein man does not dwell, see if ye
cannot ﬁnd some means whereby we may conciliate him so that he will recognize
our worth and allow us to live safely with. him. Go, and be of good cheer.”

Flying over the leagues of water which lay between Ornithoplace and the
mainland, the little company came in sight of a great, wooded swamp. It seemed
as if. these immense solitudes could never be threaded by the foot of man, but
here and there they saw evidences of his presence. Plainly they could not stop
“here, and they ﬂew on. '

After leaving the wooded regions they came to great ﬁelds of rice, and Mr.
Bobolink—Ricebird, who was one of the company would fain have stopped and
ﬁlled his crop with the kernels he so dearly loved. But Mr. Crow, the vigilant
one, said, “Stop! Do you not see men here everywhere?” It was true; and they 1
‘ﬂew on. .

Next they came to mountains, covered with forests, and having fastnesses
gwild enough to have satisﬁed the heart of old King Eagle even. But ever- here-"~75 W ’.
they saw the habitations of man, and they ﬂew on. * ”535$”. m~~twa~gﬁ

And they came to broad and fertile prairies covered With rich farms which? “5*. '

flwere the evidence of. the work of man, whose friend they Were deswned to be,

 




- W3”.

. but who by his cruelty had driven them from him. The region was a beautiful
one, and just such as they would have liked, but they dared not stop. And they

‘ ﬂew on.

They crossed the Father of Waters, and came to yet broader prairies and
larger farms, but they were looking for a home far from the abode of man, and
with a sigh ﬂew on till they came to a much higher and wilder mountain range
than the ﬁrst one they had seen. But even in the wildest places were to be seen
the shafts which man had dug into the bosom of the earth, and here and there
. the smoke of his factories and smelters arose, and they saw that even here there
was no escape from man. And they ﬂew on.

And they came to a narrower plain, full of the richness of growing fruit and
grain, verily a land ﬂowing with milk and honey. Their hearts burned within
them as they saw the ravages which the insects were already making in the
beauty of ﬁeld and orchard, and thought of the immeasurable loss which they
could save these men if they would but let them, but they knew that their lives
were in danger if they remained there.

In great discouragement they stepped to rest in a quiet spot, for they were
weary from their long journey. Some of them were in favor of returning at once

to Ornithoplace, and reporting their trip a failure, butold Gray Goose advised
that they go further north, for, said he, “There are many lakes and streams '
'there on whose banks I should like to build my nest, and I am in hopes that there
this troublesome creature has not gone.”

Thither then they bent their ﬂight when they had rested a little, but many
were theweary miles they ﬂew without ﬁnding any place far enough from man to
be safe from him, and at last there was no reason that even the most hopeful
member of the committee could give for their not returning to the island.

There was a great commotion among the birds at Ornithoplace when the
spies were seen returning. When they had refreshed themselves a little they
hastened to meet the old king, who eagerly said to them, “Tell me, ye children of
the birds, did ye ﬁnd any place where we may live without being molested by
man?” With sadness the spokesman answered, “No, 0 King, there is no place
in the whole land where man is not found.” The old bird was plainly grieved
that the expedition had resulted so fruitlessly but he simply said, “Ifeared it. ”
And when the congregation heard the report a loud murmur of disappointment rose,
for many had been very hopeful that some ideal land might be found for them.

As the spies dispersed among their friends many were the stories they told of
What they had seen and heard. One bird, whose chief attraction was the snowy
white plumage she wore, said:

“We were ﬂying over one of the great cities. It was a Sabbath morning, and
the bells were calling the people to worship. Being very tired I perched fora
few moments on the spire of one of the churches in which the choir was singing
the praise of the great God whom we adore. I looked down and watched the
people going in and my heart was ﬁlled with sorrow as I saw that some of them ,
wore feathers on their head-dress, and some of them even had the bodies of our
V poor fellow beings for ornaments. It made me very sorrowful for it recalled to
my mind the saddest day I had ever known.

' “I was but a little bird, then. My parents had come toa secluded part of the
wood with a number of their kind, and had. built there hoping that they would
.hOt be molested. My mother had just returned with some food for me and my
“ .mates, and was resting a moment when suddenly we felt her tremble violently,
' and she nestled us closer and hushed us, Whispering that there was a man coming.

I i I". wa'Sj-wi'ld with curiosity to look out, for I had never seen a man, but my mother

,. \ _ . . l _
~ . , ‘.‘ . 1' . ', ‘ . ‘ 4“
\

 




_. 4

would not allow it, and I have since learned how wise she was, for I now ‘w is h
that I had never seen such a thing as aman. - ‘

“This man soon saw one of the colony returning with some food for its little
ones, and he pointed his stick and at the coming of the dread lightning the poor
thing fell at his feet. Without waiting to kill it he pulled oil? its plumage, and
examining it declared that it was prime, and proceeded to make himself comfort—
able there. Every time he saw a parent bird returning to its nest it fell a victim‘
to his cruelty, guilty of. no worse crime than wearing the plumage its God had
‘given it, and loving its little ones as its God had taught it. It was only by a
miracle that my mother was not killed, but our nest was a little at one side, and
she managed to eScape his notice.

“For several horrible days that creature remained there,and every moment
' the air was ﬁlled with the cries of the little ones in the trees calling for food and

wondering why father and mother did not come, and the plaintive answers of the
wounded birds on the ground, for he was too busy to mercifully kill those that
were too badly wounded to escape, but left them to die when they might. .But
the cries became fainter and fewer, and at last one fearful morning—and I‘shall
never forget it—the sun arose without one answering chirp from what had been
a happy and populous colony. Where all had been the joyousness of life there
was now the desolation of death. Then, and not till then, did this ﬁend leave,
and he chuckled to himself as he looked over the stock of plumes, saying that he
had had a ﬁne harvest. '

“What was the cause of it all? Simply that his friends who were willing to
pay for it might adorn their heads with the signs of our death! Do you think
that I can believe that such a creature is the noblest act of the loving Father
whom we love? No. never! He is a servant of the Prince of Darkness, well
worthy such a master, and the less I see of him the better I shall like it. One
thing I know. For such cruelty he will one day have to give account, and in that
day it will be far better for us who have been his victims than for him. And th ose
of his friends who wear the plumes he secured and thus encouraged him to do it,
will share in his guilt.” _

Another little bird who was of a sunny disposition and always looked on the
bright side of things, said, “I think that I can hold out a ray of hope for us. It
seems to me that there is no way for us but to live with this creature. and let us“
do all for him that we can, because that will help to make him our friend. I
noticed in many places as we were flyingover the land. the children were holding
what they called ‘Bird Day Exercises’ in which they recounted the good we were
to man, and were trying to persuade their parents that we really do them more good

than harm. It may be that they will succeed, and if they do we can live in peace

with man. Beside, would we not be untrue to our trust if we abandoned him to ,
the enemies we were formed to fight? Come, let us do what we :an for him,
and if we die, we do but die.” ,

The season had already far advanced, and they saw that they must needs
take up their abode among men, for there was no other place for them. And
so they came among us. Alas, that it must be said, we appreciated them not!
God hasten the day when we shall fully realize that our very lives depend upon
the preservation of the birds, and when we shall protect them for theirown sakes

as well as ours, and then and not till then will they ﬁnd this fair and broad » land _"
:of ours their ideal home in very fact—their Land of Altruism. ' . ‘

r

Published by "Our Fellow Creatures,” 275 EastForty—Second St, Chicago, 111. Price at: pacified7‘._1i‘._»“*:~1

I \

\
\

‘ ‘ ‘ . ,. H”.—
' . 1 I . ..
i ,. . .,
‘1 . ‘ -‘ V, , ‘ ‘ . . "

 




