.1

, '1
,‘Al

‘1
\3“

ii!» 7‘1

" m“1‘9!Placesl'Whéreaumb.Vlctlrnsiangu
aintive,moansisarevﬂoating on the am! .,

n,._m.r;. ~v In ‘

 

 

{FROM EVERYBODY’S MAGAZIng
FOR OCTOBER, 1908

Reprinted by permission
Copyright 1908, by The Ridgway Company

 

 

 

 

THE LASHEI) WHIP IS CONSPICUOUS AMONG THE MEANS EMPLOYED IN TRAINING TIGERS.

The Gentle Art of Training ﬂoat Beasts)

By MAURICE BROWN KIRBY
Photographs by Charles Nesensohn

INDNESS and argy-
mint,” said the back-
woods father of ﬁve
husky sons, “is great
things; but whenever I
wanter persuade one o’
my boys to do suthin’
in a hurry thet he don’t
wanter do, I use a bale-
stick.”

In laying down this
rule for the government
of his offspring, the old
backwoodsman hit the

principle of wild animal training straight
in the nose. The only use an animal trainer
has for the word “kindness” may be found
in its employment when he discusses his

professional methods with an interviewer.
Many pounds of good white paper have” been
wasted in describing instances of mutual
affection between animal and trainer; but
when it comes right down to actual cases, the
sole bond between the domestic man and
the wild beast is a gﬂd strong stick; and the
ﬁercer the beast, the bigger and tougher the
stick. Of the great army of natmejakers,
certainly the professional animal trainer is
conlnlariﬁer—in—chjeL.

Wild animals, particularly felines, have no
love for man. It is only the greater ingenuity
and cussedness of the latter that make him
the beast’s master. Everyone who has been
attached to an animal—show knows this is true,
and also knows that stories to the contrary are
fakes. A lion or a tiger will readily eat out of

NOTE :-—Very few persons who enjoy seeing ” trained animals " have any idea of the cruelty involved in this train-

ing.
HARRIS SMITH.

I hope that the reading of this article will discourage humane persons from visiting;r these exhibitions—ANNA

 

 




 

Everybody’s Magazine

his trainer’s hand, but with equal readiness
and half a chance, he will eat the hand. There
are some old verses descriptive of a negro’s
experience with his mule. The burden of the
rhyme lies in the oft—repeated line—“You

They are slaves who fear to
For the fallen and the weak ;speak
They are slaves who will not choose
Hatred, scoﬂing, and abuse,
Rather than in silence shrink
- From the truth they needs must think-
They are slaves who dare not be ’
“In the right with two or three.

.Jm

 

 

A PLEA FOR THE HORSE

Every horse will work betterfand longer if given three
ample meals daily; plenty of pure water; proper shoes,
sharpened in slippery weather; a blanket in cold
weather; a stall 6 x 9 or enough room to lie down; a. fly
net in summer; two weeks vacation each year.

SPARE THE WHIP

 

 

 

cain’t argue wif a mule.” This holds true of
irrational animals in general. Argument is
waste of time. Whips, sticks, and iron rods
are the accepted instruments of perSuasion,
l and trainers constantly employ them. When
a wild animal is to be broken, the ﬁrst thing to
break is his spirit. It is done with a club.
Every wild animal fears his trainer, or his
\ trainer’s weapons. Once a beast believes he
is the physical superior of man, his career as a
performing exhibit is ended, else he ends the
career of his trainer.
Elephants furnish the best illustration of

 

MME. LUISE'MORRELLI, OF BOSTOCK/S,

this fact. Despite the story—book shrewdness
of the fox, the elephant is the wisest animal
in existence. Though clumsy and bulky, he

may be’made to do the most difﬁcult tricks; .

but as he grows older he grows wiser, and

   
    
   
    
 
 

  
 

 

“For we are the animal’s helpers.

And we Will ﬁght their ﬁght

Till the sun grows cold and the stars are old,
And the leaves of the Judgment Book unfold.”

“Open thy mouth for the dumb.” ——Proverbs.

AND man PET LEOPARD, “CARTUSH.”

some day realizes his trute mastery of man.
Then he is retired from the arena, because no
trainer of sufﬁcient courage to handle him can
be found. It is a safe wager that there is not
a male elephant fifty years old performing at
the present time. Bolivar, a giant pachyderm
which children rode upon ﬁfteen years ago,
had been for some time before his death this
past summer chained up at the Zoo in Phila-
delphia, with his fore and hind legs crossed
and bound with iron. In his younger days he
was as gentle as Mary’s little lamb. At the
last, to come within reach of his trunk

 

 

 

 

 




 

'The Gentle Art of Training Wild Beasts

 

would have meant cer-
tain death.

Those philosophers
who, in attempting to
prove that wild ani-
mals possess powers
of ratiocination, base
some of their argu—
ments upon the tricks
of the arena, would
quickly alter their be-
lief, could they see how
beasts are prepared for
public exhibition. Ani-
mals are not taught——
they are pushed, and
hauled, and mauled,
and whipped, and
dragged, and choked,
and tortured into tricks.
The most patient,
industrious, and
painstaking trainer I

 

 

his will. Having seen
all this, it might inter—
est you to visit the
arena during training
hours, and witness the
methods employed by
the little human being
in persuading the ele—
phant to perform these
stunts. When the
young, green elephant,
with the assistance of
two domesticated
brethren, is brought by
the mahout from the
jungle into captivity, a
powerful rope to con-
trol his movements is
placed about his neck.
When he is sold for
training purposes it is
necessary to remove
this rope and ﬁx iron

 

 

ever met once said to
me: “When they won’t
give way to pain, they
won’t be broke.” In
that speech he read
the text of the whole game, and he has
spent thirty years in the arena handling
every kind of animal that grows, from fox-
terriers to elephants. When a Gordon setter
won’t obey, a dose of bird—Shot is the quickest
and most effective argument. It is so with
all irrational animals. Hurt them and they
will heed.

You have seen an elephant lie down at the
word of command, you have seen an elephant
stand up on his hind legs, and doubtless you
have seen the same brute do a “head stand”:
that is, balance himself upon his front feet and
trunk with hind legs high up in
the air; and probably you have
marveled at the temerity of the
little human being who could
bend this enormous animal to

A DETAIL or TRAINING IS THE rIRINc
or BLANK CARTRIDGES INTO A
BEAST’S NOSTRIL.

chains around his legs
immediately above the
feet, in order that he
may be more readily
handled. Usually this
is effected with some difficulty, as the ele—
phant is the most powerful animal trained
for public exhilﬁtion, and naturally objects
to shackles. But the
beast’s objections are
overcome, by craft, if pos-
sible; otherwise, by force.

On his arrival at train—
ing quarters, he is de~
livered to the man who
has been ordained to
break him, and the two
spend a few days in get-

  
  
   
    
    
  
 
 
 
 
   

THE IRON FORK PLAYS AN IMPORTANT PART IN THE TAMING OI7 \VILD ANIMALS.

I IT IS EVERYBODY’S BUSINESS TO»,

INTERFE RE WITH CRUELTY.

 

 




 

 

 

“This teachin '° 'd

' g kmdnes

isgfm' a Simple thing; but fhgoma
0 Its merits the more penetratin

English historian and \ A
tly declared, “that the K Kind, generous hearts a

qul wron s and sufferings forced upon the l ‘ ports to H _ .
?nnocent, heglpless, faithful animal race forms 1 7 eaven_ M. C.
the blackest chapter in the whole world s hlS-

tory.”

Freeman, theonoted
noble humamtarian, Jus

    
   

      
  

 

 

 

O . O . ‘ I‘O \ ‘i A E S C‘ ‘ ,

nimals may
Ore one looks
g this spir-
sing a
d com-
ty.,,

nd deeds are pass-

“If children in school can be made to under-
stand that it is just and noble to be humane

to even What we

,_ do much 'to
tone through life.”——John Bright.

term inferior animals, it will
give them a higher character and

,«D

{we-Vs

 

 

ha ~v~’+

 

.4‘

 




 

 

 

MWh—Q.

 

 

   
  

 

 

 

EDUCATION OF THE HEART. ‘

Millions are poured into our colleges and ‘
universitles to educate the brains of America,

While almost nothing is done to educate the 1
heart

  
      

 

 

 

 

OPERATING ON A TIGER’S BROKEN LEG

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

THE PERFORMING ELEPHANT, RAJAH, UNDERGOING AN ENFORCED TOILET. \




 

Everybody’s Magazine

ting acquainted before school term begins.
The ﬁrst lesson consists in teaching the ele-
phant to lie down. To the iron—linked fetters
that encircle his legs strong ropes are at-
tached. Each of these ropes is securely tied

ditional half inch of steel, for the animal must
learn on the ﬁrst page of his primer that he
has never a chance to ﬁght. Finally, when the
pain becomes unbearable, he drops on his

knees and clumsily rolls over on his side. 0

 

 

 

 

 

BEARS IN SHIFTING-DENS, READY TO

to a staple so that the beast cannot move an
appreciable distance in any direction. When
the bonds have been thoroughly tested and it
is certain the animal is helpless, the trainer
catches his iron hook in the elephant’s hide,
high up on his back, and begins to pull.

It seems the nature of a brute to want to
do the opposite of that which he is requested
to do, so the elephant refuses to lie down.
Whereupon the trainer puts a little weight
on the sharp hook. It begins to cut through
the tough hide to the sensitive ﬂesh and the
red blood beneath. The elephant trump—
ets, then he squeals—for even an elephant
can~ squeal, when the hook is long enough
and sharp enough, and always it is. The
trainer pulls a bit harder, and maybe the
blood spurts. The beast tries to break
away and, failing that, reaches, murderously
inclined, with his trunk for his tormentor.
Each pugnacious attempt is met by an ad—

TRAVEL TO PERMANENT QUARTERS.

Immediately the trainer gives him a lump
of sugar as a reward of merit, and to show
there is no hard feeling. This lesson is re-
peated until the beast lies down at a signal.
Once taught, an elephant never forgets a
trick; if by chance he should forget, a nip
of the hook in the right spot will refresh his
memory.

A humanitarian who watched a trainer with
his iron hook teach an elephant to lie down
exclaimed: “Why do you do that?”

“To make ’im lay down, ” was the reply.

“But it’s brutal.”

“Well, ain’t he a brute?”

“I know,” persisted the humanitarian;
“but you should do it some other way.”

“Mister,” said the trainer, in a tone of
ﬁnality, “there ain’t any other way. You
can’t break animals with a feather duster.”

That is the philosophy of animal training——
“There ain’t any other way.” The S. P. C. A.

*frs'i ”

*Q‘. ‘6; N?‘




. a: ‘i‘f' ’"Jf'

\ 1.,

The Gentle Art. of Training Wild Beasts

View—point does not occur to the trainer.
He looks on wild animals as beasts of prey,
good-for-nothing evil—doers, and born ene-
mies of mankind. An exception must be
noted; for, domesticated, the elephant is use-
ful. But the other big brutes—they kill,
kill, kill weaker animals all their lives. Whv
not give them a bit of their own bite? Then.
too, every animal—show is an object-lesson in
natural history, serving to educate the young.
So is a menagerie. But people won’t pat—
ronize a menagerie. They want to see the
beasts in action. There is also another reason
for the animal-show. The proprietor has a
family to support—and diamond studs to
buy.

It is true; that nowadays an elephant is
taught one trick—rising on his hind legs—
by cajolery. The trainer, standing upon
a high pedestal, holds a piece of sugar, a
carrot, or some otherdelicacy, just above the
end of the beast’s trunk. As he cannot reach
it on all fours, he rises on his hind legs to take
the pleasing morsel. This is done over and
over again, until the brute realizes what is re—
quired and is willing to stand up at’the signal.
But when cajolery fails, the old method is re-
sorted to. Strong ropes are attached to the
chains on the animal’s fore legs, and he is
hoisted by sheer force until he stands erect
upon his hind legs.

Similar methods are brought into play to
teach the “head stand.” The animal’s fore
legs are fastened so that he cannot move, and
then ropes are tied around his hind quarters.
These ropes are passed through a pulley over-
head and, at a signal from the trainer, the
beast is tilted up in the air until he is in danger
of falling on his head, and naturally supports
himself upon his trunk and fore legs. This is
continued until he knows that, at a given
cue, he must either do a “head stand” or suf-
fer the unpleasant feeling of being hoisted.

In teaching an elephant to beat a bass
drum with his tail, the trainer pads the end
of the tail, and then ties it to the end of a long,
slender rope, which is passed through a pulley
on the farther side of the drum. By suddenly
pulling this rope the trainer jerks the tail
against the drum, and he continues to do so at
quick intervals, until the animal understands
that he must swing his tail when the drum
is raised behind him, else the tail will be
jerked, with accompanying prods from the
hook. Other tricks are taught in the same
way. It is all mechanical—all physical force.
The beast has no more intelligent initiative

than a mechanical toy. When properly
pointed and wound up, he goes; otherwise he
stands still. Without the ropes, the steel, and
the whip, the Singer Building would do tricks
as readily as an elephant.

Next to elephants, bears are probably the
most versatile of wild animals. They are the
clowns of the arena. A lively bear will get
more hearty laughs out of an audience than
any other animal that performs. Monkeys are
funnier when left to themselves in a cage, as
the conventional “happy family,” because
deviltry dances through simian veins; but the
monkey is a poor clown in the show-ring. He
interrupts his work with so many ﬁtful glances
at his trainer that he becomes artiﬁcial, like
the actor who depends upon a prompter for
his lines and continually is looking off stage
to catch his cues.

But the bear goes about his work with the
whole-hearted abandon of a natural come—
dian. He waltzes happily, he turns somer—
saults as if somersaults were the greatest di—
version of his life; he balances himself on an
enormous ball and rolls it about the ﬂoor, as
if this were recreation; he wrestles with his
trainer like a .big, happy, healthy school—boy,
and he drinks sugared water from a bottle
labeled “beer” with an undeniable relish.
But the last—named stunt is the one natural,
voluntary feature of his performance. He
drinks the sweet water because he likes it.
Everything else he does because he will be
well goaded, after the show, if he refuses.

Unlike most other big animals, the bear is
taught his stunts without the hoisting appara—
tus, for a bear naturally rises on his hind legs
in the forest, and he stands erect without ef-
fort. But, though he escapes the gibbet, he
is compelled to suffer keen pain during his
sprouting days in the arena. Taken in cub—
hood, a bear may be broken without un-
due severity. When he comes into captivity
with fair physical development and mature
strength, he is subject to the usual scholastic
course. The latter condition is usual; for
cage-bred animals lack the wonderful hardi—
hood of the forest—bred beast, and frequently
are stunted. Then, too, they become slovenly
and slothful, from the unnatural life of con-
ﬁnement, and they go about their work with
little more spirit than a feather bolster. On
the other hand, the animal that has grown .
to maturity in nomadic freedom is fretful
and nervous from his conﬁnement in jail
and makes the more interesting performer.

An adult bear is twice as hard as nails, and

 

 




 

Everybody’s Magazine

three times as tough as shoe-leather. Clubs
and whips have little more effect upon his
hide than straws and silken threads. But as
every man is said to have his price, so every
animal has his vulnerable spot. The trainer,
basing his campaign upon primitive rules of
warfare, seeks the weakest point in subduing
his charge. The bear has four vulnerable
spots—eyes, ears, nose, and feet. It would
be impracticable to attack the eyes, as blind-
ness might result, making the brute valueless
as a performer. It would be inconvenient to
use the animal’s feet as a means to his sub—
jection; so the trainer directs his attention to
the nose and the ears.

Conﬁned in a large crate, known profes-
sionally as a shifting-den, the bear reaches
permanent quarters. Immediately he is
transferred to the stationary cage. A few days
after the beast’s arrival, the trainer calls
together his assistants, and school is sum~
marily opened by the introduction into the
cage of a “choke” collar, happily named,
which, after much maneuvering, is slipped
over the bear’s head with the aid of a long iron
fork. The “choke” collar is an ingenious
contrivance of tough rope, with which, by a
slight movement of his hand, the trainer may
choke or loose the animal at will. It takes
some time to lasso the bear, for bears possess
an investigating nature, and have a bad habit
of tearing to pieces anything that comes near,
in order that they may inspect its interior
works before classifying it as friend or foe.
But the beast has as much chance with the
men surrounding the cage as the proverbial
snowball in the heart of Hades. Growl, bite,
and ﬁght as he will, ultimately human per—
sistence prevails and the “choke” collar coils
into the thick fur about the animal’s neck.

Ten or ﬁfteen men at the other end of the
_ rope tug the struggling bear against the bars
of the cage, with his fore feet and chin sliding
on the ﬂoor, as a boy drags an obstinate dog
along the street by a tight rope about his neck.
With Mr. Bruin’s head pulled down and held
hard against the ﬂoor and with his nose
jammed under the iron bars of the cage, other
ropes are thrown into his cell, and each of the
bear’s feet is caught in a slip-knot. Then his
legs are pulled from under him toward the
four points of the compass, until he spreads
out, belly ﬂat, on the ﬂoor, like a bear—skin rug.
With the animal roped into this utterly help-
less position, the intrepid trainer enters the
cage and cuts off the beast’s claws, as close as
the ﬂesh will permit.

When the manicuring has been satisfactor-
ily completed, an attendant passes into the
cage an instrument like the punch used by
train conductors to mark tickets, save that
it is much larger and makes a larger hole.
Slipping this instrument into Bruin’s nose,
the trainer cuts a round hole through one
nostril. Into the bleeding circle there is
clamped a metal ring, to which a long lunge—
rope is attached, and now the beast is ready
for the arena. From his legs the four slip—
knots are removed, the “choke” collar is
loosened on his neck, and he is permitted to
rise and become acquainted with the link in
his nose.

Despite the excruciating pain attending the
deed, an enraged bear occasionally will rip the
ring from his nostril. When he is foolish
enough to register this objection to the meth—
ods employed for his mental development, it is
necessary immediately to show him the futil—
ity of his act; therefore, he is roped again,
tied down ﬂat on the ﬂoor of his cage, and a
new hole forthe ring is bored through his other
nostril. Should the bear prove so hopelessly
obstinate as to tear out the second ring, the
trainer will go him one better by roping him
again, and this time punching a hole clear
through the upper parts of both nostrils.

There is on record the case of a bear so-
thoroughly lacking in logic that, after lacerat—
ing both nostrils, he even tore the link from
the middle of his nose, leaving the organ in
such a ragged condition that the trainer found
it necessary to insert the ring in the tenderest
part of his ear. With insulting impudence
Bruin immediately split his ear in twain,
whereupon the determined trainer trans—
ferred the link to the other ear. Without
pause, the self-destructive, pertinacious brute
repeated the operation, thereby rendering
himself practically impossible of control.

“I guess he’s no account,” commented the
owner of the menagerie, who had been watch—
ing the bear reduce himself to strips of fresh
meat. “We’ll have to make a cage animal
out of him.”

~ A cage animal is one kept merely for show.
He spends his life pacing about the little iron-
barred cell in which animals are exhibited.
He is very unhappy until he reaches the time
of life when food and sleep are all he wants,
and then he is still unhappy, as he probably
has indigestion from lack of exercise. When
you see an animal with his nose in rags pacing
about a cage, it is probable that he refused to
be “broke.”

 

 

 

 

 




a-’

 

 

 

 

‘ my

JA-J “

 

The Gentle Art of Training Wild Beasts

it is miite arare case. however. when a. hear gronn of ten or twelve trained lions. two or

To get animals from burning barns without trouble, tie a bag or piece of cloth over coWs
eyes and a saddle or piece of harness on a horse.

“No cruel man can enter the Kingdom of Heaven.” \
M Mﬂﬂww...

It is a cruel act to go aw: y and leave a cat without anyone to care for her. These deserted,
homeless catsnot only suffer themselves, but they cause human beings to suffer by hearing their
pitiful cries. . It is our duty to take good care of our dogs and cats for their sake, as well as
for that of our neighbors. 7 "

Very often dogs and cats do not have? proper care. They should have fresh water Where
they can always get it, should be fed regularly twice a day, and should be kept in the hous‘ at
night. A cat that is half starved loses its keenness ofscent and is not so likely to be able
to catch mice. '

One great secret of keeping horses, cattle, dogs and cats in good condition is to see that
.hey have plenty of clean, pure water to drink. Dogs, especially, should have water always
\ 'thin riach in the house or in their kennels.

As the world advances in civilization the time will surely come when it will. not be
(onsidered “sport" to go out and shoot something. NOTHING WILL THEN Bl“. (‘t<‘)NsII)I<InI<II>
.ron‘r 'I‘II.\'I‘ .MICAXs sUI‘IvIcIIING on DEATH 'I‘o ANY LIVING (IRICA'I‘UI:I<I

P)l.l.\'l)l*‘.l:b.' Few persons think of the s'ujfw'iny caused to horses from the use of Illimlers.
The horses eyes are placed at the side of the head, but the blinders shut off the side view and
compel him to look ahead, hence they cause a constant strain, which veterinary surgeons tell us
tends to produce inealtuess of rzfsz'on, and Mimi/less.

(.‘A'r'rmc NEED SHADE I.\' 1101‘ \VIGIYI'IIIGIL' If the pasture has no shade trees, erect sup—‘

 

ports, across which place straw or grass, grass sods, or boards nailed on posts; thus I‘naking'
shade in which animals can rest from’the heat of the sun.

The Germans take care of their wild birds during the winter. Shelters from snow are
built in public parks and private gardens, and plentifully supplied with food of various kinds.
III the spring many of the birds build nests in these shelters.

()ur' cities are poorly provided with drinkingphyces which small animals can reach. There
are notenough troughs for horses, and fewer for dogs. No (‘loubti‘lits are sometimes caused
by extren‘Ie "thirst. -

An English writer, who is desptmdent over the cruelties of the world, says: “Our very
pastime is murder, and our ‘sports‘ involve some other creatures wounds and agony."

M e—w' w " “-—

 

When a child is speaking or aWindly, whether to a playmate or to an animal, he is
developing and strengthening the tender and noble side of his character; when tlu'mghtless or
cruel, the lower and brutal elements of his nature are developed.

M “MU-'"m'wﬂ -"‘----

You are doing right when you treat every living creature as you would wish to be treated.
If you drive a horse, or own a horse, think how you would him to be treated it you were that
horse. Treat your dog and cat as you would like to he treated if you were that dog or cat.

The world would be‘in a happier condition if legislators spent half as much time and labor

to PREVENT crime as they do to l’UNI‘SI—I it. ”M

[CZ/(Zia Maria (1111‘!ch

\Vhat we sort in the home and the school, we reap in the nation.

 

 

They cannot recompense you, but Ye shall he recompensml in the resurrection of the.
just."~—Bible.

A driver should be his horse‘s best friend and should study his comfort.
OVER

r-mrr

 

 

 

 




 

 

  

three times 2, '

and whips 1i
hide than str;
every man i3
animal has li
basing his ci
warfare, see
his charge.
spots—eyes,
be impracti
ness might
as a perforrr
use the anin
jection; so t
the nose an<
Conﬁned
sionally as
permanent
transferred t
after the b
together hi3

 

marily ope

cage of a ,
which, afte,
over the be

fork. Thei
contrivance'
slight movei
choke or loé
some time i
an investiga
of tearing tc
in order thi
works befoi
But the bezi
men surror?
snowball in
and ﬁght ai

sistence prq ‘

into the thi
Ten or g
_ rope tug t
of the cage,‘
on the ﬂooi
along the st
With Mr. 1
hard agair
jammed uri
ropes are ti
bear’s feet
legs are p,
four point;’
out, bellyﬂi
With the 3‘
less positil
cage and «

   

 

the ﬂes l

gm}
I

 

 

/
/

Everybody’s Magazine

0
1 1 AC - .7. _--—

Influence.

 

We scatter seeds with careless hands

And deem we ne’er shall see them more.

Yet for a thousand years their fruit appears,

In weeds that mar the land——

Or heathful store.

The deeds we do, the words we speak,

linto the air they seem to ﬂeet

We count them past,

But they shall last;

In the dread judgment they and we shall meet.
' —~Iiev. John Kaole.

Mm

Whoever restores a young bird to the limb, “
0r gladdens the lives of dumb creatures in need,

Is one of Christ's helpers, whatever his creed,
Clasps hands with “the angel that comforted Him.“
But whoever ﬁnds pleasure in adding one hurt

To an innocent life, be it insect or dove,

ls somehow in league with those who found sport
ln nailing the hands of the World’s Greatest Love.
011, how dare we ask a just God to bestow

The mercy we grant not to creatures below!

 

/ The Cry of the Suffering Creatures.

 

(l, that they had pity, the men we serve 80 truly I //
0, that they had kindness, the men we love so well !

They call us dull and stnpid, and vicious and unruly,

And they think not we can suffer but only would rebel.

rl‘hey brand us and they beat us; they spill our blood like water,
We die that they might live, ten thousand in a day!

0, that they had mercy, for in their dens of slaughter
’l‘hey afﬂict us and affright us and do far worse than slay.

If they would only love us, would learn our strength and weakness,
If only with our szquerings their hearts could sympathize,

Then they would know what truth is, what patience is and meekness
And read our heart‘s devotion in the softness of our eyes.

If they would but teach their children to treat the subject creatures
\s humble friends, as servants who strive their hearts to win,
Then they would see how joyous, how kindly are our natures,
And. a SECOND day of Eden would on the earth begin.

  

 




'3:
P. ,_~..A_

 

 

. ‘ — . I _ . I
L_ 7 E 1 ; in), mringe»cgg'.r:_-_; . . “.0;ng -_.s_ {iiéek'itsﬁﬁi‘ .

at... ask-33.11;!“ .eisizmarma-zgeg , ‘2 7

The Gentle Art of Training Wild Beasts

It is quite a rare case, however, when a bear
does not give in after both nostrils have
been punctured. When he succumbs he is
taken into the arena, with two ropes trailing
at his heels, one attached to the nose—ring,
the other to the “choke” collar around his
neck.

Mr. Bruin now experiences the usual meth-
ods applied to beasts of his kind. He is pulled
around several times in small circles by the
ring in his sensitive nose, to make him under-
stand that he is expected to waltz. If he
does not understand, he is pulled around some
more. In teaching, a somersault, the trainer
slips the rope between the bear’s hind legs and,
from his rear, pulls the animal’s nose under
his belly, until he is forced to roll over on his
head. Each time this is done, the trainer
prefaces the act by laying his whip on the
ﬂoor at the brute’s side. Finally the bear
realizes that he must do a somersault when—
ever the whip is dropped. In wrestling, the
beast is similarly governed. \Nhen he gets too
rough and hugs his trainer a bit too hard, a
slight jerk on the lunge-line attached to the
ring in his tender nostril brings him to a sense
of his error.

Unlike the elephant, which gradually grows
irascible with increasing age, until he refuses
to do any stunts at all, and will kill the man
who tries to force him, thebear frequently
dies in harness, though when he becomes stiff
and senile he is employed merely to pose in a
group with his mates, or to sit on a pedestal
and watch younger and livelier animals go
through their performances.

This is also true of lions. As he grows old
a lion gets lazy and spiritless. The haughty
beast who stares at the crowd outside his cage
usually is as ﬁerce of spirit as a fat night
watchman who blinks out upon the dark
world through the circle of light cast by the
lamp at his feet. With plenty to eat, nothing
to annoy him, and a keeper to look after his
cage, the king of beasts becomes as peaceful,
portly, and self—satisﬁed as some of our latter—
day human monarchs, whose ministers of
army, navy, state, and other things take
proper care of the regal cage and see to it that
the usual three square meals per day await the
royal gullet at the proper hours. The story-
book impression that lions are always on the
hunt in their native jungle is quite at vari-
ance with the truth. Indeed, the older lions
will frequently go hungry or seek the leavings
3f another beast’s kill, rather than summon
the energy to hunt prey for themselves. In a

group of ten or twelve trained lions, two or
three young, nervous animals usually supply
the act with all its dash and spirit. The
others are somnambulists.

Tigers, too, frequently grow lethargic with
advancing years; but never to such a degree
as the aging lion. There is always a pinch of
ginger in the big striped cat. (For that rea-
son he makes a more spectacular performer
than the lion, and usually a tougher proposi—
tion for the trainer.

I once saw a particularly recalcitrant tiger
introduced to the arena. The introduction
consisted of a most determined and persistent
series of brutalities. The beast was jungle
born and bred. He had lived in a small,
cramped cage from the day of his capture, until
his arrival in New York, where he was turned
over to his purchaser and placed in a more
roomy iron—barred apartment. Near by ‘were
six trained tigers, comprising one of the best,
most exciting and sensational wild—animal
acts ever brought to this country. The train-
er of these beasts was a passed master in the
art of thrilling an audience. A handsome,
athletic chap, extravagantly reckless, with
six spirited, high-strung, nervous tigers, he
gave a performance that for hair—raising
daring has never been excelled in America.
Frequently women, who seem to have a mor-
bid love of daredeviltry, covered their eyes to
avoid hysteria, while he was putting his
beasts through their paces. He wished, how-
ever, to make the act twice as exciting by add-
ing six tigers more; and the beast I saw in
the ﬁrst stages of training was one of the

, green animals with which he had been sup—

plied.

The tiger was given a fortnight to straighten
his back, get the crimps out of his muscles,
and acquire some ﬂesh, before he was intro—
duced to the torture chamber. On his ﬁrst
training day the program began at six o’clock
in the morning, when ﬁve ropes with nooses
on the ends were thrown into his cage. After
much maneuvering with long iron forks, the
trainer and his assistants succeeded in throw—
ing one of these nooses over the tiger’s mag-
niﬁcent head, while the other four knots were
slipped around his legs and drawn taut just
above the paws.

Biting, ﬁghting, clawing and pawing at
the ropes, the brute was dragged by ten or
ﬁfteen men against the bars of the cage,
where he was tied fast and helpless. The
trainer then buckled a heavy collar, to which
a thick rope was attached, around the ani—

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Everybody’s Magazine

mal’s neck. On the completion of this part
of the ceremony the nooses were removed,
and the beast was given his freedom, which
he spent in a ﬁerce endeavor to rid himself
of the strange leather strap that encircled his
neck. After numerous efforts to scrape,
tear, and rub it off, he decided that the col—
lar was there to stay, and lay down for a
rest.

At eight o’clock the door of the tiger’s cage
was thrown open. Driven by shouts, whips,
and iron prods, he ran through the dark
passage—way behind the semicircle of small
cages, and bounded into the center of the
big, bright performing—arena. Momentarily,
he thought he had regained his freedom, but
a glance at the high steel bars'told him he
was still a prisoner, and he took note of his
surroundings with the quick curiosity of a
man suddenly pushed into a strange room.
For half an hour the beast was permitted to
roam unfettered, inspecting the arena. It
interested him but little. Saving seven or
eight plain iron seats, attached to the bars a
few feet above the floor, the big cage was
empty. As the tiger walked about with the
long rOpe trailing from his collar, he watched
with wary eyes for possible attack, and
seemed to be wondering, “What are they go-
ing to do with me next?”

His speculation was brought to an abrupt
end. As the rope dragged along the floor
near the bars, a sinewy hand reached in
and seized it. Nine more pairs of sinewy
hands took a quick, ﬁrm hold on it and
brought the beast to a standstill as the trainer
slipped into the arena, :closing the doors be—
hind him.
lashed whip; in his left, a revolver with six
blank cartridges, and a steel fork, ﬁve feet
long, with sharp prongs at the end.

It is an aged fallacy, bred by sensational
press—agents, that trainers carry loaded guns.
It is also untrue that their assistants stand
near by with revolvers, on watch for an emer—
gency. If a trainer lacks control over his
animals a gun won’t help him. iVIore than
one shot is usually required to stop a Vicious
beast, and a man depending on a gun would
have little chance of ﬁring twice. Besides,
if he shot straight and struck a vital spot, he
would destroy a valuable animal; if he
missed his mark he might kill someone in
the audience, whose relatives likely would
collect large cash damages from the pro—
prietor of the show, a possibility wholly in—
consistent with practical economy.

In his right hand he held a long,

When the tiger trainer I was watching en—
tered the arena, he braced the handle of the
iron fork against his body, holding the sharp
pointed prongs toward his victim. The
beast whirled around, but did not spring.

He faced the man and crouched, with his i

tail moving slowly from side to side. He
looked not unlike a house cat creeping up on
a mouse. A cat always makes sure Of his
prey before he leaps. It seems his nature
to want a big advantage, and he hesitates

until he is absolutely certain of his distance.

Speaking in caressing tones, the trainer
slowly advanced toward the animal.

Suddenly, the beast grOwled deep down in
his throat, his muscles tightened until his
haunches trembled from the strain, and as
the man yelled, “Look out, boys!” the tiger
sprang from the ﬂoor with the speed of a
clay pigeon shot from a trap. It was a sight
to be remembered: the great, tawny beast,
intent upon the kill, his ears laid back snugly
against his head, his snarling mouth half
open with hungry hate, his tail stiff as a cane
on a line with his backbone, his four paws
spread out like the talons of a lighting eagle
to cover his victim when he landed.

But “the boys” spoiled the picture. As
the tiger reached the top of his ﬂying par-
abola they threw their combined weight upon
the rope, and the beast turned a clumsy
somersault in the air, falling heavily to the
ﬂoor. Before he could turn to renew the at—
tack the trainer was upon him, jabbing him
with the fork and pounding his nose—the
most sensitive part of a cat—with the butt of
the heavy whip. Half stunned by his pain—
ful fall, the beast leaped high up on the side
of the arena in fright, seeking to avoid his
tormentor, who kept after him with fork and
whip. The tiger tried desperately to climb
out of reach of the blows, but his paws slid
away from their grip on the iron bars and he
fell to the ﬂoor. Once more the man was
upon him, yelling, pounding him mercilessly
with the whip, while the gang outside were
ready to lay their weight on the restraining
rope should the animal show a disposition to
renew the attack. But the ﬁght had been
walloped out of the brute, and he ﬂed from
the man as a cat runs from a boy with a
slingshot.

The ﬁrst step, and a very important one
in the education of the tiger, had been ac—
complished. He was afraid of his trainer.
With a single sweep of his powerful paw he
might have broken the neck of his master,

\

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

r A‘hq

._..n

F——_—_- H-..“

 

 

The Gentle Art of Training Wild Beasts

but the unexpected way in which he had
been thrown puzzled him, and he lost his
nerve. The animal retired to a corner of
the cage, and, backing up against the bars,
stood at bay, while the man took a position
in the center of the arena and paused to re—
gain his breath. After resting ten minutes,
the trainer went after his pupil once more.
He ﬁxed one of the iron seats securely on
the bars of the cage, and then, standing with
the seat between him and the tiger, ﬂicked
the beast on the end of his nose with the
whip—lash. This irritated the tiger, and he
turned his head away, but the man was an
expert with the whip, and no matter how
quickly the animal moved, the lash reached
the tip of his nose with never-failing, stinging
accuracy. Meanwhile an assistant outside
the cage jammed an iron fork against his
haunches.

Unable any longer to endure the torment—
ing whip and iron, the beast slapped at the
ﬂying lash and took a few threatening steps
toward the man. The latter then tapped

Fifteen feet of slack rope were permitted
the animal as the trainer directed him once
more to the seat and once more he failed to
understand. Then the order to hoist was
given, and, as the men pulled, the tiger felt
the collar tighten about his neck. His head
gradually was lifted up, until his fore legs left
the ground and he pranced on his hind paws.
With the fear of strangulation and the in-
stinct of self—preservation his brain became a
mental mud—puddle. He beat the air with
his fore paws, whirled, squirmed, and wrig-
gled, in a vain effort to get out of the col-
lar that clutched his throat. Every move—
ment of his body brought him nearer to the
seat over which hung the block and tackle.
When he reached it an assistant grabbed his
tail through the bars and pulled him toward
the little stool, while the trainer punched
him against it with the iron bar.

Throughout this cruel struggle the trainer
never lost his temper. He went about his
work with the impersonal determination of
a public executioner. His only evidence of

" 'an physical, when his efforts

The Animal Trainer. BL

.———_—.

The din of music, loud, mechanical;

A thoughtless, laughing crowd that fronts a stage;

A trainer bowing to its loud applause

As though he were the hero of the age.

Alas, he is no hero! Listen, look!

The whip descends as from the arena’s rear

Leaps into line a crowd of animals '

Whose eyes are piteous with the light of fear. '

Then comes the “grand'performance”. High trapeze

And stools and ladders, swinging rings and balls

Confront these cringing creatures who are trained

To a precosity unnatural.

The leopards mount their stools. The monkeys leap

All tremulous with fear from dizzy height,

The kangaroos perform a boxing'match,

The camel says its prayers and bows “good-night”.

The clumsy bear climbs in his little swing,

The pony bows to uestions grave replies,

The dogs go gaily ancing round the ring,

But, Oh the pathos could one see their eyes!

For tricks well done the J udas-kiss is given.

If not, there are but few who would not moan

To gaze upon the cruel punishment

When trainer with his pupil is alone.

Ah these poor pupils mastered by the whip!

God never meant them for a life like this.

Kind Pity, sweep such scenes as these from earth

And turn their loud applause to scathing hiss!

—Alice J. Cleator, in “Dumb Animals”.

East Claridon, Ohio.

spire and his muscles trembled
rtion. Mentally, the man was
He felt no more anger to—
er than a butcher entertains
rcass of an ex he is quarter—
st was there to be trained and
0 train him. Ethics are out of
irena. So is sympathy. The
ither. Why should the trainer
7 them?
nu clear of the ground,” he
’11 make him take that seat.
owl” and as the men laid their
ight on the rope, the big cat
ntil his hind legs dangled two
ﬂoor, dancing a madman’s jig.
choking brute fought the use-
; ﬁsh out of water. Had not
bver his throat been like solid
he would have strangled as
3 body into a coil, trying to
sight that hung from his own

 

a pretty thing to look upon,
we provided work for one of
societies organized to prevent
it is the only way thus far de—
mal trainers to make an ob—
it down.

pushing and hauling the strug—
lnally was landed on the seat;
ent he felt support under his

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Everybody’s Magazine

mal’s neck. On the completion of this part
of the ceremony the nooses were removed,
and the beast was given his freedom, which
he spent in a ﬁerce endeavor to rid himself
of the strange leather strap that encircled his
neck. After numerous efforts to scrape,
tear, and rub it off, he decided that the col-
lar was there to stay, and lay down for a
rest.

At eight o’clock the door of the tiger’s cage
was thrown open. Driven by shouts, whips,
and iron prods, he ran through the dark
passage—way behind the semicircle of small
cages, and bounded into the center of the
big, bright performing-arena. Momentarily,
he thought he had regained his freedom, but
a glance at the high steel bars'told him he
was still a prisoner, and he took note of his
surroundings with the quick curiosity of a
man suddenly pushed into a strange room.
For half an hour the beast was permitted to
roam unfettered, inspecting the arena. It
interested him but little. Saving seven or
eight plain iron seats, attached to the bars a
few feet above the ﬂoor, the big cage was
empty. As the tiger walked about wit
long rOpe trailing from his collar, he wa
with wary eyes for possible attack,
seemed to be wondering, “What are the
ing to do with me next?”

His speculation was brought to an al
end. As the rope dragged along the
near the bars, a sinewy hand reacht
and seized it. Nine more pairs of si
hands took a quick, ﬁrm hold on it
brought the beast to a standstill as the tr
slipped into the arena, "closing the door
hind him. In his right hand he held a
lashed whip; in his left, a revolver wi
blank cartridges, and a steel fork, fiv
long, with sharp prongs at the end.

It is an aged fallacy, bred by sensa
press—agents, that trainers carry loaded
It is also untrue that their assistants
near by with revolvers, on watch for an
geney. If a trainer lacks control 09

 

animals a gun won’t help him. Mor
one shot is usually required to stop a V
beast, and a man depending on a gun ‘
have little chance of firing twice. Be
if he shot straight and struck a vital sp
would destroy a valuable animal;
missed his mark he might kill somec
the audience, whose relatives likely ‘
collect large cash damages from the
prietor of the show, a possibility whol
consistent with practical economy.

 

When the tiger trainer I was watching en-
tered the arena, he braced the handle of the
iron fork against his body, holding the sharp
pomted prongs toward his victim. The
beast whirled around, but did not spring.
He faced the man and crouched, with his
tail moving slowly from side to side. lle
looked not unlike a house cat creeping up on
a mouse. A cat always makes sure of his
prey before he leaps. It seems his nature
to want a big advantage, and he hesitates

"until he is absolutely certain of his distance.

Speaking in caressing tones, the trainer
slowly advanced toward the animal.
Suddenly the beast growled deep down in
his throat, his muscles tightened until his
haunches trembled from the strain, and as
the man yelled, “Look out, boys!” the. tiger
sprang from the floor with the speed of a
clay pigeon shot from a trap. It was a sight
to be remembered: the great, tawny beast,
intent upon the kill, his ears laid back snugl .'
against his head, his snarling mouth half
open with hungry hate, his tail still as a cane
on a line with his backbone, his four paws

t ._ ‘:~L‘-:nﬂ onnln

 

 

A ~‘___.._‘ ~_ “.




“:_._—»

 

The Gentle Art of Training Wild Beasts

but the unexpected way in which he had
been thrown puzzled him, and he lost his
nerve. The animal retired to a corner of
the cage, and, backing up against the bars,
stood at bay, while the man took a position
in the center of the arena and paused to re—
gain his breath. After resting ten minutes,
the trainer went after his pupil once more.
He ﬁxed one of the iron seats securely on
the bars of the cage, and then, standing with
the seat between him and the tiger, ﬂicked
the beast on the end of his nose with the
whip—lash. This irritated the tiger, and he
turned his head away, but the man was an
expert with the whip, and no matter how
quickly the animal moved, the lash reached
the tip of his nose with never—failing, stinging
accuracy. Meanwhile an assistant outside
the cage jammed an iron fork against his
haunches.

Unable any longer to endure the torment—
ing whip and iron, the beast slapped at the
ﬂying lash and took a few threatening steps
toward the man. The latter then tapped
the seat with the handle of his whip to show
the tiger that it was intended for him to sit
upon. Naturally enough, the beast did not
understand the signiﬁcance of this action,
and backed into his corner, growling and
snarling. This scene was repeated over and
over again during the next half hour. The
lash would light upon the tiger’s nose; the
assistant outside the cage would stick him in
the haunches with the iron fork; the beast
would advance with a short rush and then
stop, afraid; the trainer would tap the seat
with his whip, and the animal would back
into the corner, showing his wicked teeth.

Meanwhile the beast was regaining some
of his nerve. Anger was conquering fear.
Each time he rushed he would sneak" a little
closer to the man, and each time he retired
to his corner he would growl a little louder
and lash his tail with greater fury.

Eight or ten feet above the seat that had
been placed for the animal there hung a
block and tackle. When it was apparent,
after numerous efforts to make him sit down,
that he could not understand what he was
expected to do, or would not do it, a ladder
was raised outside the arena. One of the
assistants climbed up, and, passing the rope
attached to the animal’s collar through the
bars, hung it over the block and tackle. The
ten men took a fresh grip on the rope in
readiness for the most trying and brutal les—
son in the education of the tiger.

Fifteen feet of slack rope were permitted
the animal as the trainer directed him once
more to the seat and once more he failed to
understand. Then the order to hoist was
given, and, as the men pulled, the tiger felt
the collar tighten about his neck. His head
gradually was lifted up, until his fore legs left
the ground and he pranced on his hind paws.
With the fear of strangulation and the in-
stinct of self—preservation his brain became a
mental mud—puddle. He beat the air with
his fore paws, whirled, squirmed, and wrig-
gled, in a vain effort to get out of the col-
lar that clutched his throat. Every move—
ment of his body brought him nearer to the
seat over which hung the block and tackle.
When he reached it an assistant grabbed his
tail through the bars and pulled him toward
the little stool, while the trainer punched
him against it with the iron bar.

Throughout this cruel struggle the trainer
never lost his temper. He went about his
work with the impersonal determination of
a public executioner. His only evidence of
excitement was physical, when his efforts
made him perspire and his muscles trembled
from over-exertion. Mentally, the man was
utterly at ease. He felt no more anger to—
ward the tiger than a butcher entertains
toward the carcass of an ox he is quarter—
ing. The beast was there to be trained and
he was there to train him. Ethics are out of
place in an arena. So is sympathy. The
animal has neither. Why should the trainer
be afﬂicted by them?

“Swing him clear of the ground,” he
called. “We’ll make him take that seat.
All together now!” and as the men laid their
combined weight on the rope, the big cat
was hoisted until his hind legs dangled two
feet above the ﬂoor, dancing a madman’s jig.
The helpless, choking brute fought the use—
less ﬁght of a ﬁsh out of water. Had not
the muscles over his throat been like solid
rubber tires he would have strangled as
he curled his body into a coil, trying to
escape the weight that hung from his own
neck.

It was not a pretty thing to look upon,
and might have provided work for one of
the numerous societies organized to prevent
cruelties; yet it is the only way thus far de—
vised by animal trainers to make an ob-
stinate tiger sit down.

With much pushing and hauling the strug—
gling beast ﬁnally was landed on the seat;
but the moment he felt support under his

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

. i Everybody’s Magazine

feet he leaped for the ﬂoor. He was met by
the trainer, who walloped the sore, sensitive
nose with the hickory handle of his whip, and
followed this up by ﬁring the burning powder
of a blank cartridge straight into the nostril.
This was the ﬁrst time the revolver had been
brought in play, and it threw the beast into
hysteria. He turned to run, but the trainer
yelled, “Lift him, boys,” and'as the crew
threw their weight on the rope the beast’s
head and fore legs were yanked from the
ground, and he pranced along for a few steps
with only the claws of his hind feet touching
the boards. When the momentum of his
own body had carried him clear of the ﬂoor,
he swung back, suspended in the air, more
like a lifeless tiger—skin than a blood-ﬁlled
beast of ﬂesh and sinew.

Again he was smashed against the seat,
and as the men gave slack to the rope he fell
prostrate on his belly across the little iron
bench, breathing violently, with a drunken
glare in his eyes and bleeding from the nose.
The trainer showed a disposition to give the
beast respite, but the swarthy proprietor of
the show, standing safely outside the cage,
shouted: “Keep after him! Don’t let up!
You’ve got him going now!”

It was true, they had him going—going
very close to his grave. Again the word was
given, and again the helpers strained their
backs. The big, tawny head went up with
the tightening rope, until the tiger’s body
was dangling once more above the empty
seat. As they eased the rope the beast gave
a fearful cry, and, with every ounce of
strength left in his body, made one ﬁnal, des—
perate leap at his persecutor. The force of
his ﬂying weight almost snapped the rope,
and his murderous, sweeping paw missed
the trainer by an inch. Then, if a tiger can
faint, he fainted. The proprietor yelled,
. “Let go the rope!” and the helpers loosened
their hold. The beast ﬂopped into a sense—
less heap on the ﬂoor, and a black tongue
fell through the side of his mouth. Cold
water was rushed into the arena and dashed
on the animal’s head. Bucket after bucket
followed until his ﬁne coat was drenched to
the slimy smoothness of wet sealskin. His
eyelids opened convulsively and his pupils
rolled upward as he groaned painfully.

Three other tigers, trained animals, were
brought into the arena. On entering the
ring they glanced casually at their prostrate
fellow, sniffed, and walked by. There is not
an ounce of the Samaritan in a cat. The

trainer snapped his whip, and the trio
climbed upon their accustomed seats, which
had been arranged for their reception. ,
Gradually the exhausted beast regained full
consciousness, and at the ﬁrst sign of return—
ing strength the trainer ﬂicked him on the
nose with the stinging lash. The tiger
struggled to his feet, took astep forward,
swayed, and fell on his side through sheer
weakness. They soused him with another
bucketful of water, and he stood up, sufﬁ—
ciently revived to keep his feet; but when he
tried to move it was with the uncertain step
of locomotor ataxia.

In an attempt to teach his pupil by sug—
gestion, the trainer called the three educated
tigers, worked them a few times around
the ring, and made them leap to their
seats. The object—lesson was wasted, for the
wounded beast stood stiff-legged, paying no
heed to his mates, but following the trainer’s
every movement with a gaze of mingled hate
and fear. A half—tipsy criminal might turn
the same look on the big policeman who
had brutally clubbed him to a station«
house.

Some pugilists possess marvelous powers
of recuperation, but there is nothing in
humanity that compares with the reserve
strength of a wild beast. Half an hour after
he had regained consciousness the green tiger
was breathing normally, his limbs had re-
gained their pliant strength, and his eyes
were bright and clear. Observing the beast’s
recovery, the alert trainer resumed his lesson.

It was the same brutal scene all over again:
the big, stubborn cat, the mercilessly deter-
mined trainer, the hangman’s rope—and
ﬁnally, the animal was slammed on to the
seat more dead than alive. While one as-
sistant hung to his tail to prevent him from
leaving the bench, the others held up his
head with the straining tackle, and the
trainer propped him with an iron bar. Once
more the beast lost consciousness, the rope
was loosened, and he fell to the ﬂoor. An-
other relay of buckets of cold water dashed
against his face restored him. The doors of
the arena were thrown open, the tiger was
driven back to his small living cage, and
school was over for the day. Intermittently,
for a fortnight, this same course of training
was repeated, until ﬁnally the brute realized
what was wanted, and sat down. Forthwith
he was added to the educated group and the
next victim was taken in hand.

Occasionally an, animal trainer is killed.

 

Copies of this leaﬂet may be obtained of the ANIMAL RESCUE LEAGUE, 51 Carver StreetﬂBoston, Mass.

 




trio

Jhich i
»tion. ,

! full
urn-

the
iger
1rd,
leer

 

 

 

 

 

PUT YOURSELF IN HIS PLACE

Has the Golden Rule no right to govern us in our
treatment of the animal world?

Think what the animals in any zoo have to bear:

First they must suffer all the wretchedness of a long VOyage, during
which all Of them are terriﬁed, most of them are made ill, and many
die. They are brought to a strange climate, which causes the death
of many.

Then they are cooped up in prison, usually in solitary conﬁne—
ment, scantily fed, bereft of the natural joys of freedom, fresh air,
power to roam at will, and to mate. They are doomed to languish
in misery and despair till death comes to set them free.

Lions, tigers, bears, monkeys and other creatures who are forced
to perform ugly, foolish antics, are taught by starvation, drugs, Wire
whips, iron spikes, hot irons, and other barbarities.

If the public could but see what goes on in secret during the re—
hearsals, they would rise as one man to cry shame upon the horrible
performances. ‘

But the people who earn money by these vile means persuade
the audience that “all is done by kindness.” Nobody is allOwed to
know what goes on behind the scenes. Good men, women and
children! Do your best to stop these shameful cruelties to God’s
creatures!

Now and always we are opposed to catching, capturing, snaring
these free children of the wood and wild and shutting them up in
cages and pens to wear out their lives in what is nothing but a prison.
Oh, yes—many an inmate of a jail gets better food and clothes than he
had outside, perhaps is in far less danger of being maimed or killed
by automobiles or at some railroad crossing, but he wears the prisoner’s
garb and the stone wall and the iron bars are perpetually saying,
“Thus far shalt thou go and no farther.”

When wild animals injure or interfere with man they must be
killed, we have the right to do that—but mercifully. God never gave
us permission to, torment, abuse, or torture them.

Published by the AMERICAN HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY, 180 Longwood Avenue,
Boston, Mass. Dr. Francis H. Rowley, President; Guy Richardson, Secretary.
Price 25 cents per hundred, postpaid. Taken in part from the Golden Rule series of leaﬂets.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 




