 

 

 

 

The Bishop of
Birmingham’s
Views

‘. , ON.

MODERN MEDICINE

AND THE

’MIRACLES OF CHRIST

——————.—

By WALTER R. HADWEN, M.D., J.P.
/

Price .' ONE PENNY.

Published by
THE BRITISH UNION FOR ABOLITION 0F VIVISECTION,
. 32, Charing Cross, London, S.W.l.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

British Union for Abolition of Viniseotion - . 1

(British Anti—Vivisection Society). . i
The Largest Society of its kind in the W'orld. : i
32, CHARING CROSS, LONDON, S.W._1. '

President: Secretary:
DR. HADWEN, J.P. MISS B. B. KIDD.

__._._...—

Life Membership: £5.
Annual Member’s Subscription: lOs.
Associates: 5s. and 28. 6d. i

.1

Organ of the Union: The Abolitionist.
TWOPENCE MONTHLY.

Send for a copy; also for last year’s Report, which
shows the great work accomplished (with the mini-
"mum of administrative expenses) by the Society.

N.B.—-—~The word British is important.




 

 

The Bishop of Birmingham’s Views

ON

MODERN MEDICINE AND
THE MIRACLES OF CHRIST.

A CRITICISM
By Walter R. “Hadwen, M. D., J. P.

’ I ‘HE Guardian of October 26, 1916, reported a
sermon delivered by the Rev. E. W. Barnes, M.A.,
Sc.D., F.R.S., now (1924) Bishop of Birmingham,

and then Master of the Temple, London, to a congrega—

tion of “physicians, surgeons and nurses” at Liverpool.

‘It was more freely quoted and criticised in the

ABOLITIONIST of December, 1916, than can be attempted
in this pamphlet. The following summary of Dr. Barnes’
leading points will sufﬁce.

THE ARGUMENT TABULATED.

(1) That a strong -minded person (that is, one
whose “spirit” or “contented and imperious
mind,” is above the average) is capable of
exercising a curative bodily influence over
persons of a weak nervous organisation.

(2) That disease is caused by germs, and these
germs are got rid of either by being swallowed
by the so -called phagocytes (1.6., the White
corpuscles) of the blood, or by throwing out a
toxin which stimulates the tissues to secrete
an antitoxin that directly destroys the germs.

~ (3) That drugs act similarly, either by destroying

- the germs direct, or by stimulating the phago —
cytes to swallow them.

(4) That the reason why the spirit of one individual
exercises a curative influence upon the body
of another is that the spirit of the former
induces a secretion in the system of the latter,
which, like a serum, either kills the germ

3

 

 

 




 

alleged to produce the disease, or else, like a
vaccine, stimulates the phagocytes to gobble
it up.

(5) That physicians and surgeons should study
this suggestive programme in order to find
out “ the necessary time -factor, ” or how long
it will take for the powerful spirit of one indi-
vidual to cure the organic disease of another.

(6) That in view of this they should

“examine the records which narrate the
power of Jesus to cure disease and endeavour
to explain such stories of healing as the
Gospels contain. ’ ’
The reason for attempting to show that the miracles of
Jesus can be matched by “physicians and surgeons”
of the present day is' given thus:

. “The miracles of healing occupy an overwhelmingly
prominent place in the history of the public ministry
of our Lord. Yet they are, to many a mind, biassed
by the presuppositions common to our own time,
supremely difﬁcult to believe. Many good Christians
feel genuine sorrow that such stories are included in
the Gospel narratives . ’ ’

AN ATTITUDE OF DOUBT.

The “physicians and surgeons and nurses” must have
lifted their eyebrows at the task which this ingenious
prelate set before them; the only thing which could
have been clear to them in the ﬁnish must have been
that the preacher was in very grave doubt and difﬁculty
himself both as to the Deity of Christ and the authen—
ticity of His miracles, and that the preacher was looking
to his hearers for assistance in order to enable him to
square New Testament records with the Pasteurian
germ-theory of disease, which, as Dr. Granville Bantock
told the Royal Commission on Vivisection, “is now
almost universally discredited . ’ ’

Dr. Barnes would perhaps dispute the suggestion
that he doubted the fundamental teaching of his Church
as to the Deity of Jesus Christ, seeing that in one passage
he exclaims “we who proclaim Him to be the Son of
God.”

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

In another passage he says :—-

“The intellectual man must, I am convinced, ﬁnd
in the Incarnation the central fact of human meta—
physical speculation .”

'What he meant by that only the preacher himself is in

a position to explain, but one thing must have been clear
to every observant “physician, surgeon and nurse” in
his congregation: that if the preacher really and truly
believes in the Incarnation as taught by his Church
and verily believes Jesus Christ to have been the Son
of God, there was no need for him to urge his congre-
gation

“to see if you can help us to understand those cures.”

‘ ‘A STUPENDOUS MIRACLE. ’ ’

Anyone who can bring himself to believe the
preacher’s story of vaccines and serums, phagocytes
and disease germs, toxins and antitoxins, and all the
rest of the fanciful and imaginative theories upon which
he based his religious speculations, ought to have no
difﬁculty in believing in miracles! The whole founda—
tion upon which the sermon was built up could but be,
if true, a stupendous miracle of the ﬁrst order. The
preacher did admit that “in the main the stories of
spiritual healing so frequent in the Gospels are founded
on fact,” but this is more than he can claim for his
grounds for explaining them away. And if these con-
stitute the “scientiﬁc” basis upon which the Bishop of
Birmingham hopes to “re-establish popular belief in
the veracity of the Gospel records,” we must for ever
despair of the records!

But the preacher must surely be as superﬁcial a
student of the Miracles as he is of Science. Let us take
the Miracles of Healing by Jesus Christ one by one and
see exactly the task which the “physicians, surgeons
and nurses” have in front of them.

So far as can be gathered, there are twenty-four
miracles in all, including those of persons raised from
the dead; omitting, of course, the remaining nine
recorded miracles which lie outside this particular con—
nection. Fortunately we shall not have to discuss
the use of serums and vaccines. Anything so horribly

5

 




 

ﬁlthy and degrading as these modern methods of treat-
ment ﬁnd no place in the New Testament scheme of
revelation.

All we have to consider is the question of the inﬂuence
of mind over body, and whether the circumstances of
each miracle of healing admit of the theory that the
spiritual effect of the “imperious mind” of Christ could
have resulted in the secretion of curative agencies in
the bodies of the individuals who came under His
inﬂuence. It will be seen that if such were the case
the physiological process must have been rapid beyond
all experience of the Liverpool congregation.

RAISING FROM THE DEAD.

Let us ﬁrst take the records of those raised from the
dead. Bacteriological necromancers make no pretence
to score here. Metchnikoff, who invented the theory
of phagocytosis, which the Bishop of Birmingham so
profoundly accepts, did discover a “germ of longevity,”
and did manufacture a serum which was to prolong
life to at least double its present allotted span, but as
he himself died before reaching three score and ten, we
may dismiss his particular method of securing eternal
life.

There are three raisings from the dead.

1. jaims’s Daughter. (Matthew iX., 18-26; Mark v.,
22-43; Luke viii., 41-56.) The circumstantial
evidence here of so many witnesses to the fact
that the child was actually dead leaves no room
for speculation so far as the Scripture record is
concerned.

2. The Widow/’3 50%. (Luke vii., 11—15.) Here the
dead man was already on the way to be buried
and witnesses were numerous, for “much people”
accompanied the bier and “much people” followed
Christ.

3. The Raising 0f Lazarus. (John Xi., 1—44.) .. In this
case the dead man had been buried several days,
and the miracle of resurrection is said to have
been witnessed by large numbers.

Perhaps Dr. Barnes agrees with those “ good Christians”

he talks about, “who feel genuine sorrow that such stories
6

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

are included in the Gospel narratives,” but if Christ
were truly the “ Son of God, ” as he declares, and the Incar--
nation a fact, why caVil at the miracles? A God who can
create is a God who can re-create. When he has formu—
lated a satisfactory theory to settle these miracles in
regard to the dead, it will surely be time enough to discuss
the miracles of healing

CURING AT A DISTANCE.

Of the remaining twenty—one miracles, there are three
recorded in which the patients are said to have been
cured at a distance without any personal contact:

1. The Nobleman’s Sen. (John iV., 46—54.) Suffering
from fever; cured according to the evidence, at
the same hour that Christ gave the word.

2. The Centzm'on’s Servant. (Matthew viii., 5—13;
Luke vii., 1- 10 ) Cured under similar conditions.

3. The 53/70 Phaenz'ez’an’ s Danghtee (Matthew XV.,
21 28; Mark v ii., 24 30.) This is said to be a case
of “demon possession,” which the preacher said
was confounded at that time with “madness,
epilepsy and hysteria.” So be it. The point is
that there was no “personal magnetism,” as he
calls it, exercised. At Christ’s word, the narrative
states, the cure was effected.

Dr. Barnes may have his explanations for all this,
but, as in the raising of the dead, the cases are not settled
by “ an imperious mind” causing the secretion of curative
agencies and setting them to work upon a diseased body.
And any analogy with the germ—theory of disease is,
therefore, out of court.

PERSONAL CONTACT.

There are now eighteen remaining miracles where
the personal contact of Christ with the sufferers is
deﬁnitely indicated. Two of these incidents were the
sudden restoration of lepers to health.

1. The Cleansing of One Lepen (Matthew viii., 1—4;

Mark i., 40-45; Luke v., 12-16.)

2. The Cleansing of Ten Lepers. (Luke xvii., 12-19.)
Anyone who knows anything of leprosy is aware that
there is no known cure. Every means has been tried

7

 




 

n-.- . «ﬂu—Aw: Ema—"Vi . _.

for thousands of years, including that of vaccines and
serums galore, and latest of all, injections of chaulmoogra
oil. Hence the prescription of Dr. Barnes as to the
inﬂuence of mind over body as compared with the alleged
action of vaccine and serum therapy must fail in explaining
these sudden cures.
Of physical defects of the senses there were altogether
ﬁve. \
1. Opening the Eyes of Two Blind Ellen. (Matthew iX.,
27-31.)
2. Of One Blind from his Birth. (John ix.)
3. The Healing of One Deaf and Dumb. (Mark vii.,
31-37.)
4. The Blind Man of Bethsaida. (Mark viii., 22-26.)
5. The Two Blind Men near jericho. (Matthew xx.,
29—34; Mark x., 46-52; Luke xviii., 35-43.)
Now the circumstances associated with all these cases,
so far as the evidence goes, put entirely out of court
all idea of presuming that the inﬂuence of mind on matter
could achieve the results which are narrated. They
pourtray miracles in every sense of the word, which the
suggestions of Dr. Barnes do not explain, and which his
congregation could have told him were quite outside the
scope of modern medical science.

DEMONIAC POSSESSION.

This leaves us with only eleven more recorded miracles
of healing to consider. Two of these are the cure of
demoniacs.

1. In the Country of the Gadarenes. (Matthew viii.,

28-34; Mark v., 1—20; Luke viii., 26—39.)

2. In the synagogue of Capernaum. (Mark i., 23—27;

Luke iv., 33—36.)

The preacher, Whilst conferring a high eulogium upon
St. Luke, as “an able man, a painstaking Sifter of
evidence, and a physician whose authority cannot be
lightly discarded, ” adds :

“We do not, of course, admit his theory of demoniac
possession. It is his authority for facts, not his
explanation of those facts, that it seems to me we are
forced to accept. . . . Yet, although we reject

8

 




 

ancient terminology and theory, we cannot thereby
assume that the disease which it- purported to describe
did not exist, nor have we in general any reason to
disbelieve the cures which Jesus is said to have wrought.
Possibly it (the Gadarene story) is a parable.”
It is St. Luke the Physician who records both of the
above instances. He wrote Theophilus that, though
not an eye—witness, he had “perfect understanding of
all things from the ﬁrst” (or, traced the course of all
things accurately from the ﬁrst). He does not assert
that his Gospel is inspired, but “certainty” he claimed
for his narrative. On it Theophilus could rest. Readers
may form their own judgment on the circumstantial
record which is given as to whether the one or the other
looks like “a parable.” And if they are not parables
and the preacher “ accepts the facts,” as he says he does,
he has a very ugly task in front of him, no matter what
way he tries to explain demoniac possession, if he hopes
to show that the recorded results could be thus rapidly
achieved by any curative secretion set up in the blood
by the mental inﬂuence of Christ.

PARALYSIS, DROPSY AND LUNACY.

The remaining nine miracles are of a very interesting
type; all different; all of a deﬁnite chronic disease;
and I can fancy the “physicians and surgeons” rubbing
their eyes and pulling their moustaches, or stroking their
beards, whilst perplexedly trying to calculate “the
necessary time-factor” which would be required “in
really favourable circumstances for the spirit to act
with great rapidity in such instances”! Let us look
at them :—-— '

1. The Helpless Paralytic. (Matthew iX., 1—8; Mark

ii., 1-12; Luke XV., 17-26.)
This case occurred in Luke’s own city, Capernaum, and
he ought to know something about it. The “physicians
and surgeons, ” as well as “ nurses, ” could tell the preacher
that it would take a lot of mental inﬂuence to put that
man right.

2. The Impoteht Ill/cm at Bethesda. (John V., 1—16.)
He had been helpless for thirty—eight years~totally
incapable of reaching the pool. No one could get him

9

 




 

 

 

‘along quick enough. The question Dr.- Barnes asks in
effect is this: “What is the quickest possible time that
a curative secretion can be produced in his tissues to enable
him to get into the water?” Well, according to the
New Testament account, Jesus simply told him to take
up his bed and walk. And he did it.

3. The ﬂlom with the Biopsy. (Luke xiv., 1-6.)
This must have been some organic disease of the heart
or kidneys. The “physicians and surgeons” would
probably prefer digitalis to mental inﬂuence, and then
they would be chary about promising a “cure.” But
the physician, “whose authority cannot be lightly
discarded,” says the Lord “took him, and healed him
and let him go.” ‘

4. The Lunatic Child. (Matthew xvii, 14-21; Mark

iX., 14-29; Luke iX., 37-42.)

Luke, the physician, states all the features of the case
very minutely, as expressed by the father—presenting
the horrifying symptoms of epilepsy with mental derange—
ment. What is the “time—factor” here? “He was as
one dead; insomuch that many said ‘He is dead’; but
Jesus took him by the hand and lifted him up; he arose
and He delivered him again to his father.”

THE WOMEN CURED OF DISEASES.
5. The VVomom with a Spirit of Iiiﬁmiity. (Luke
Xiii., 10-17.)
Here is a woman bent double for eighteen years——
possibly a case of rheumatoid arthritis. “She could
in no Wise lift up herself.” Now, “physicians and sur—
geons and nurses”! Where is the “investigator of
genius” whois to “discover the extent to which, and
the mode whereby, this disease” may be immediately
cured by a “contented and imperious” or “spiritual”
mind creating “curative secretions” in the blood? Just
explain the following according to the theory and pres—
cription of Dr. Barnes: “He laid His hands on her and
immediately she was made straight, and gloriﬁed God.”
6. The Woman with an Issue of Blood. (Matthew iX.,
20—22; Mark v., 25—34; Luke viii., 43—48.)
She had had “an issue of blood” for twelve years, and
had “suffered many things of many physicians, and had
10




 

spent all that she had, and was nothing bettered, but
rather grew worse.” In this account we read “the foun-
tain of blood was dried up” before there was time for any
mental inﬂuence of Christ to be exercised upon her.
That upsets all Dr. Barnes’ medical theology. This is
likely to be quite outside the range of any “full and
exact statements” or “tabulated observation,” which the
“physicians and surgeons and nurses” were exhorted to
“record” in the future.

7. The Cure of a Fever. (Matthew viii., 14-17,; Mark

i., 29-31; Luke iv., 38-40.)

It was a “great fever,” St. Luke informs us, used no
doubt in a technical sense——probably typhus or typhoid.
“A great fever” is about the only instance in which
the “physicians and surgeons” could assist the preacher
as to the “time—factor.” They could furnish him with
a temperature chart of any of the “great fevers,” and
give him a fair idea of how long “under favourable cir-
cumstances” it would last. But vaccine or no vaccine,
“spiritual or mental inﬂuence,” or none at all, drugs or
no drugs, a case like this will wreck any system of calcu-
lation—«“He stood over her, He rebuked the fever, took
her by the hand and lifted her up, and immediately she
arose and ministered unto them.”

THE WITHERED HAND AND THE RESTORED
EAR.

8. The M em with at VV/ithered Hand. (Matthew xii.,
9-13; Mark iii., 1-5; Luke vi., 6-11.)

St. Luke, that “painstaking sifter of evidence,” says
it was his “right hand.” A deﬁnite case of atrophy,
which every “physician and surgeon and nurse” would
declare to be incurable. To talk of a “time-factor”
would be considered triﬂing. “Said He to the man,
Stretch forth thy hand; he stretched it forth, and it was
restored whole like as the other.”

9. The healing of iMalchus’ Ear. (Luke xxii., 49-51.)
This last recorded incident of the healing power of
Jesus Christ concerns the cutting off of the right ear of
a servant of the High Priest by Peter. Mental or
spiritual inﬂuence are quite out of it here. There was
not even an injection of tetanus serum, in which no

11

 




 

doubt the preacher and most of his hearers believe. No
antisepsis or asepsis was discussed. The physician
says, “He touched the ear and healed him.”

This completes the list of the Miracles of Healing of
Jesus Christ.

The whole of the cases of disease with three excep-
tions, and two out of the three raisings from the dead,
are recorded by St. Luke, who is acknowledged by the
preacher to be “an able man, a painstaking Sifter of
evidence, and a physician whose authority cannot be
lightly discarded.” He added, “It is his authority for
facts, not his explanation of those facts, that it seems to
me we are bound to accept.”

These then are the “facts” without any “ explanations.”

How will the Bishop of Birmingham square them
with his theory?

He was careful to omit mention of any one case
except that of the demoniac, and then only to doubt
its veracity. Had he detailed them it would, we should
presume, have become clear to everyone, even himself,
that his theory could have no bearing whatever upon the
subject he professed to deal with, and could provide no
analogy with any results within the range of medical
knowledge and treatment, for the preacher confessed that
even the miracles of Lourdes “are suspect.”

THE UNSPECIFIED “DIVERS DISEASES.”

It is not within the province of this pamphlet to
discuss whether the miracles of jesus Christ were genuine
or false, or whether the Scripture records are to be
received as authentic or to be refused as legends. But
it is within our province to demand that when a leading
ecclesiastic professes to explain those recorded miracles
upon the basis of a modern system of perverted science,
which itself has no foundation in fact, he shall at least
comply with the elementary principles of logic and
common sense and show that the miracles themselves
are such as can be explained in this way.

We have no fault whatever to ﬁnd with him in his
views of the inﬂuence of a strong and healthy mind over
a diseased body. Every “physician, surgeon and nurse”
knows that already. But we do protest when he selects

12

 




 

 

as the text on which to hang his sermon—“He healed
many that were sick with divers diseases, and cast out
many devils” (Mark i., 34)———that he should confound
“divers diseases” with what are known as “The Miracles
of the four Gospels.” Of the details of the “divers
diseases” the preacher knew no more than his hearers;
many of them probably might have been easily cured by
anyone possessed of strong spiritual or psychical force;
we cannot say; we simply know nothing about them
and we have no ground even for speculation.

But “the Miracles of Healing of Jesus,” which formed
the subject of the Bishop of Birmingham’s sermon, are
deﬁnitely recorded and speciﬁcally described. They lie
outside the range of any known law or experience con«
nected with the history of medicine or surgery. And it
is these miracles—the “facts” of which he declared
he was ‘ ‘forced to accept’ ’———-(for there are no recorded
facts in connection with the verse he took for his text)
——with which the preacher professed to deal; but
which, in no single instance, he attempted to face or
even to describe. The quotation of any one of them
would have brought immediate ridicule upon the sug—
gestions so conﬁdently propounded.

THE CHOICE.

Ere a serious problem like that of “The Miracles of
Healing of Jesus” is to be explained by modern theories
of medical speculative science, the scientiﬁc basis of the
latter should be established. This has never been done,
and Dr. Barnes made no attempt to do it, but he evidently
accepts it on faith.

The moment the miracles as recorded are honestly
investigated, it is found that in no single case do they
comply with the demands of the preacher’s assumption,
even were the assumption physiologically correct, which
it is not.

If the miracles are not correctly reported, then the
ﬁrst obligation is to prove their falsity. If the writings
of the ﬁrst century are not to be relied upon, it is not
easy to “ explain” them twenty centuries later.

If they require explanation, and they cannot be
explained by the sophistries of Dr. Barnes, they must

13

 




 

 

 

remain as they are—-~ as the work of Deity or the result of
imagination . .

If the former, the Bishop of Birmingham is in a
tight corner; if the latter, many will feel that honesty
should compel him to resign his position, which demands
acceptance of the authenticity of the Four Gospels, for,
without the miracles, they are robbed of their vital force.

But to cast doubts in the ﬁrst place upon the intrinsic
veracity of the records; to seek to explain them by
presuming the miracles could be effected by an inﬂuence
of mind over body such as has been exercised in medical
practice from time immemorial; to propose such a possi—
bility without even attempting to show its probability
in a single recorded instance; to propose, as a basis of
explanation, an unscientiﬁc, unsubstantiated theory,
associated with a useless, ﬁlthy, cruel and dangerous
method of treatment, and ﬁnally to suggest an analogy
between a purely imaginary physiological action in
disease and that produced by a miracle of the kind
describedby the Gospel penmen, can only bring such
modern Christian teaching into ridicule and the position
of the teacher into contempt. ’ ,

The fact is, what is called “Medical Science” has
become the fetish of the hour, and it is not too much to
say that some Church dignitaries exalt it so far above
what it is their own province to teach that they feel they
must apologise for Christianity in its presence. “ Research”
(another name for vivisection) has actually usurped the
place of Christianity.

Yet a sermon exposing the horrors of vivisection
practices, which form the foundation of the whole medi-
cal system advocated by Dr. Barnes in his Liverpool
sermon, is not an uncommon thing from the pulpits of
leaders of every shade of religious thought. In the past,
men of. distinction in the Church of England have con-
tributed their best efforts in this directiorn—among them
being Dr. Westcott (Bishop of Durham); Canon Liddon ;
Dr. Barry (Canon of Windsor); Dr. Mackarness (Bishop
of Oxford); Archdeacon Wilberforce, and many others.
No ﬁner utterance was ever delivered from the Christian
standpoint than that of Bishop \Vestcott in \Vestminster
Abbey, on August 1.8, 1889 :-——

14

A__‘

 

 




 

 

“If He who made us made all other creatures also,
and if they ﬁnd a place, in His providential plan, if
His tender mercies reach to them———and this we
Christians most certainly believe—then I ﬁnd it
absolutely inconceivable that He should have so
arranged the avenues of knowledge that we can attain
to truths, which it is His will that we should master,
only through the unutterableagonies of beings which
trust us.”

On the very rarest occasions there has been a feeble
defence of vivisection from dignitaries of the same
Church, such as that of the Bishop of Ely, who, at Cam-
bridge, speaking under the auspices of the Research
Defence Society in 1912 and shielding himself, like the
Bishop of Birmingham, behind general assertions without
offering a shred of evidence in support of them, declared
Vivisection to be a “serious duty,” for by it “suffering
is immeasurably lessened for the whole human race and
for the whole race of animals.” The Bishop of VVin~
Chester, speaking under the same auspices on another
occasion, “invoked the Divine blessing upon the labours
of men” engaged in this ghastly work.

For the most part, however—mat all events to—day——
the Church of England is silent upon the subject. The
leaders may now and then deal in a general way with
social reforms, or on rare occasions treat them speciﬁcally,
but this “detestable practice,” as Cardinal Manning
called experimentation on living animals, is for the
most part sedulously ignored. The Church of England
position could not be better put than by one of its own
lights of learnind, Dr. Gore, late Bishop of Oxford, who,
in an address to the Christian. Social Union in May,
1912, asked :——— ,

“VVhat is this old Church of England about? Why
is it so insensate, so dull to the great appeal that
ought to make it stir? . . . Often have I tortured
my mind trying to ﬁnd an answer to these questions,
and tortured it in vain. I simply recognise the fact;
it stares you in the face. If you want to get a social
reform carried out, you have to go to every kind of
Atheist and Nonconforrnist and other kind of person.”

We cannot but feel that there is a good deal of truth
15

 




in the above when we read down the long string of
bishops and deans who have subscribed their names
as supporters of the “Research Defence Society,” and
who by doing so have laid themselves open to the biting
satire of George Bernard Shaw, who, in the course of
publicly exposing the shameless and positive falsehoods
published by that society and endorsed by these
ecclesiastical signatories, remarked :—

“I do think they are greatly abusing the privileges
of their position. We ordinary people, when we
endorse a lie, are sometimes asked by the bishops and
deans who have made themselves responsible for
these falsehoods, where we expect to go when we die.
We know perfectly ’well that the bishops and deans
of the Church of England are absolutely safe in that
respect. Nobody would venture to challenge their
right, but, all the same, I think if they have secured
that immunity, they ought to be careful to give as
little trouble to the recording angel as they can.”—0—
(Speech at Caxton Hall, June 6, 1912.)

The Bishop of Birmingham appears to have been com-
pletely captured by a very specious form of pseudo-
science, which appeals to laymen who give only cursory
consideration to medical matters, and in the practice
and propagation of which young men with or without
medical degrees are being trained in increasing numbers.
These young men bestow as little thought upon the basis
of their own opinions as Dr. Barnes appears to have
bestowed upon theology when he attempted to square it
therewith. Considerable scepticism prevails within the
medical profession concerning the germ theory of disease.
The system of inoculation, which depends on the
foolish supposition that continual poisonings are necessary
to preserve health, would not survive another year, were
it not for the commercial interests involved in it. This
is the nemesis of the cruel and immoral system of Vivi-
section. . .

Those who desire to study the matter further are
advised to write to the Secretary, British Union for
Abolition of Vivisection, 32, Charing Cross, London,
S.W.1, for literature.

 

Published by the British Union for Abolition of Vivisection, 32, Charing Cross, S.W.I.
Printed by Deverell. Gibson & Hoare. Ltd.. Bromley Buildings. Bread Street Hill, E.C.4.

 




