 

 

“HU

(QUARTERLY)

H
.d
3

MANE

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

CONTENTS.

The First Step (1.)

Furs from the Fabric Counter I

Vivisection (1.)

Protest by Mr. H. B. Amos at Exeter

Are we more Humane than our Forefathers P
Symposium

Notes

17
19
20
24
26
30
32

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

HUMANE LllFE

APRIL, 1936.

 

The First Step.

I.

MONG organizers, leaders and supporters of Humane
Societies there are not a few who, while protecting animals
from some kinds of ill treatment, resent the idea that they

should not kill and eat them.

There are the best of reasons why we should live on cereals,
herbs and fruits. The A Creator arranged that we should, as
related in Genesis, chapter 1. The most reliable physiologists and
naturalists—~such as Sir Richard Owen, Cuvier, Linnaeus and
others—have told us that man, as indicated in his structure, was
never intended to eat ﬂesh.

 

 




 

‘ 18 HUMANE LIFE

It is imperative that we live purely and naturally if we are to
be humane to ourselves and our folks as well as to the other races
of animals. The many diseases, doctors and hospitals exist as the
results. partly, of accidents and worry, but chieﬂy owing to wrong
diet and the horrible slums, slaughter houses and cattle markets
in our midst. There are also the ugliness and waste associated
with the system—all tending to lowered vitality and therefore
injury to all and poverty to many.

How can it be otherwise ? The Creator’s plan for us is best.
Instead of that we try to place ourselves in the class to which the
jackal and wolf, the tiger and the snake belong.

Count Tolstoy reminded us that this reform in diet is the
“First Step ” we must take if we are to make real progress.

A story is told of a man who, wishing to learn to play the
violin, went to a professor for lessons. On inquiry he was told
that the fee for the ﬁrst lesson would be ﬁve shillings, and for
every lesson afterwards half-a-crown. He then said he wished to
begin at the second lesson. And that is what these half and half
reforming advocates of humaneness wish to do. They wish to
retain their old pernicious dietary as it has become un-naturally
palatable. The First Step lays the foundation. Without it,
whether in the case of the violin player or the builder or the
would-be humanitarian, the superstructure is unreliable.

(To be continued).

(3'19

 




 

HUMANE LIFE 19

Furs from the Fabric Counter!

I ' NDER this heading the News Chronicle on 20th November
last wrote :—

“ We should make the most of the really beautiful fur fabrics
now manufactured ..... When you ask for astrakhan cloth no
longer are you shown a shaggy woolly fabric ...... Instead you
may choose from a whole range of lovely materials, with crisp,
silky curls that would make a Persian lamb yearn over it as a long
lost brother ..... And there are imitation dyed summer ermines
with furry surfaces so soft and delicate that you almost want to
stroke them as you would a Persian kitten.”

Fur fabrics are composed of mohair and silk, wool and
alpaca, llama hair, camel hair, cotton and art silk.

This is largely a British industry
OBoaoo‘EJOCEo

”Live and let live. Do more and help live. Do to beings
below you as you would be done to by beings above you.”
' ——]. HOWARD MOORE. ‘

3K 5K 3K

An old writer quaintly says :—-—"A dog is the only thing on
this earth that loves you more than he loves himself."
—-—DARWIN, “ The Descent of Man.”

 

 




 

 

 

,20 HUMANE LIFE

Vivisection.
I.

CONDENSED statement of the leading facts and arguments
A relating to the tense controversy between Vivisectors and
anti-Vivisectors will, no doubt, be helpful to some who
have not the time to read and learn about them in detail or are
mystiﬁed by the technical terms used by specialists. For the sake
of the hundreds of thousands of tortured animals all humane
advocates should face the unpleasant task of ascertaining the real
state of the case.

The desire to learn more of the workings of the body
internally is laudable ; but the attempt to do so by cutting open
living animals and subjecting them to intense and prolonged pain
is not only meretricious and misleading but also very cruel.
There are other and more reliable methods.

Such statements made by others than those in authority—
referred to by Vivisectors as “irresponsible sentimentalists ”—are
fully justiﬁed by the many medical men and scientists, as able and
eminent as any of the Vivisectors, who have strongly condemned
vivisection. Dr. Lawson Tait, who was a Fellow of the Royal
College of Surgeons and a famous abdominal surgeon, wrote that
vivisection has not helped the surgeon one bit and has often led
him astray and caused “ horrible blundering.” In the Medical
Press and Circular he wrote: HSuch experiments never have
succeeded and never can; and they have, as in the cases of Koch,

«cw-o

 




HUMANE LIFE 21

Pasteur and Lister, not only hindered true progress but'have
covered our profession with ridicule.” Dr. George Wilson, author
of a “ Handbook of Hygiene," wrote that the claims that it led to
beneﬁt of humanity and advanced medical science are quite
incorrect and perpetuate error.

Many more authorities can be quoted in the same sense. Dr.
W. B. Richardson, Sir Morell MacKenzie, Sir Charles Bell, and
others eminent in their profession condemned it. Sir Wm. Banks
said that it is impossible that the experiments can help in the case
of man. Even Dr. Koch in his “ Cure for Consumption ” wrote
that there is conclusive proof that an experiment on an animal
gives no certain indication of the result of the same experiment
upon a human being. This opinion was also given by Sir Morell
MacKenzie in The Fortnightly Review. '

It is well known that fear and pain cause an alteration in,
and sometimes a poisoning of, the secretions: and Sir B. W.
Richardson, in his HBiological Experimentation,” wrote: “It is
utterly impossible to observe natural functions under the shadow
of pain in man or animals.”

The reason was well stated by Dr. Lionel Beale in his book
on “ Vitality " :—“ Man is a being whose living matter is endowed
in a special manner with powers peculiar to man alone, being
influenced by many chemical substances in a manner different
from that in which the living matter of other creatures is
inﬂuenced by the same substances.”

This fact should have been known by Sir Frederick Treves
before he made his cruel experiments on dogs ; but it was forced
on him when he had to discard all he had learnt about the
intestines of dogs when he came to apply his knowledge in the
treatment of men. i

 

 




 

 

 

 

22 HUMANE LIFE

As reliable a medical man as any was Dr. Walter Hadwen.
He was an M.D. and a gold medallist in his profession. No one
was more fully qualiﬁed to deal with the facts. He was thorough
and so able in debate that leading vivisectors have been known to
avoid meeting him on the public platform. His opinion alone is
decisive. He vigorously denounced vivisection as useless and
pernicious. His magazine. The Abolitionist, is now ably carried
on; and all who wish to know the realities would do well to
read it.

The protests of this large number of eminent medical men
are evaded by the vivisectors; and those of people not medical
are treated with contempt. Why do not the vivisectors welcome
such valuable testimony? Owing to the mass of apathy of the
public and to the fact that Parliament and the Press are to some
extent advised by vivisectors, and possibly to the high honours
conferred for apparent successes. a strong position has been
secured by them; and the manufacturing chemists and allied
traders reap proﬁt. One, however, would prefer to believe that
the well-known, honourable leaders of medical thought are free
from professional bias.

That. vivisection experiments are, as a rule, painless as they
are mere pin pricks and anaesthetics are used is a misleading
statement. Miss Beatrice Kidd in her debates with vivisectors on
the public platform had sometimes to meet it. Miss Lind af
Hageby and others have easily refuted it. Members of the public
—usually ill-informed of the facts—accept the plausible statements
of the vivisectors and the Press. After the pin pricks and after
coming to consciousness when anaesthetics have been given, the
cuttings and injections cause sometimes long suffering and death.

Many who have abandoned vivisection have testified that
such is the fact; and some vivisectors admit it. A certificate is

Vw‘

 

 




 

 

HUMANE LIFE 23

sometimes given to enable vivisectors to perform excessively
painful experiments without anaesthetics.

An American student in The Quest of July, 1930, wrote:
HOf all the unmitigated horrors in our modern laboratory
vivisection is by far the worst. There is positively no more
repulsive thing to the student than vivisection; even the
instructors never recover from the feeling of utter disgust.”

Referring to a vivisector, Professor Huxley wrote to Darwin :
“I am told he openly professed the most entire indifference to
animal suffering, and he only gave anaesthetics to keep the animal
quiet. I declare to you I did not believe the man lived who was
such an unmitigated cynical brute as to profess and act upon such
principles; and I would willingly agree to any law that would
send him to the treadmill.”

That very able scientist, Dr. Alfred Russel Wallace, F.R.c.s.,
wrote: ”I have for some years come to the conclusion that
nothing but Total Abolition will meet the case of Vivisection. I
am quite disgusted at the frequency of the most horrible
experiments to determine the most trivial facts—evidently carried
on for the interest of the “research” and the reputation it gives.”

(To be continued).

030C279 030C320

“Unquestionably in this world the human being stands 011
the highest step, but those whom he sees beneath him are fellow
mortals. He is their King and must never become their tyrant.”

——LARMARTINE.

 

 




 

 

24‘ HUMANE LIFE

Protest by Mr. H. B. Amos

at Exeter.

N October 8th a stained glass window was dedicated in the

0 Children’s Chapel in Exeter Cathedral in memory of the

late Earl Fortescue who, as a leading Devon stag-hunter

for twenty years, was associated with the hunting and killing of
about 5,000 deer.

The window includes ﬁgures of St. Hubert with a deer and
two hounds.

Mr. H. B. Amos, Editor of the Magazine of the H League for
the Prohibition of Cruel Sports,” has spent 47 years protesting and
working in humane advocacy. He described how he felt that a
peculiar responsibility rested on him to rouse public indignation in
the matter. On St. Hubert’s Day (November 3rd, 1935) while
service was proceeding, he twice thrust his umbrella through that
part of the window containing the crest of the Fortescue family.

In a letter to The Times Mr. Amos wrote :—

H In their deeper signiﬁcance our cathedrals are the property
of the nation. Under the circumstances we have a right, I
suggest, to expect that the custodians of these priceless heritages
will enshrine and portray in them only those things which exalt
and ennoble, particularly in a Children’sChapel set aside to
inspire the rising generation in all that is true and of good report.

H May I add that it is increasingly unfortunate that St. Hubert

 

do




so

gr

HUMANE LIFE ‘ 25

should be cOnsidered the Patron Saint of The Chase, as he was
converted from stag-hunting and should rather be commemorated
as the Patron Saint of the tortured victims.”

Though testimony was given to the Hhigh character and
irreproachable integrity” of Mr. Amos, and the Dean and Chapter
of Exeter Cathedral expressed a hope that no penalty would be
imposed, a ﬁne and cost—total £31 108. Od.—were ordered, as
the magistrate said that such a premeditated act of damage and
desecration could not be lightly passed over.

But how about the desecration by the hunting folks who
every Sunday go to the Cathedal'and thank God for their own
comfort and immunity from ills. They torture and tear to pieces
one of the ﬁnest specimens of the Creator’s skill and beneﬁcence.
What right have they to do it?

The action of Mr. Amos places-him in the same category as
such earnest reformers as' Samuel Plimsoll, whose emphatic
gesture in spite of orthodoxy in the- House of Commons saved the
lives of many a sai'lOr who, through: the overloading of sea-going
vessels, would not be living now, had he not acted as he did—of
the Sulfragettes who went so far ‘ as to burn down houses in their
zealous protest—and of Anna Kingsford who, in her intense
indignation, struck Pasteur with "her umbrella.

John Brown, the American slave trade reformer, is a typical
example of vigorous self-denying action in a good cause; and
“ his soul goes marchng on.” ‘

a

O

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

26 HUMANE LIFE

Are we more Humane than
our Forefathers?

EDWARD KEUTGEN.

é FTER describing the prolonged suffering through which
calves are put when the lymph for vaccination is obtained,
Mr. Edward Keutgen writes 2-—

As experience has taught us and the merciless penal laws of a
hundred years ago and the savage sentences of a period less
remote have shown, cruelty does not pay. This also happens in
the present case. The matter being injected into the bloodstream
of a healthy child exposes the latter, as is proved by the ﬁndings
of a committee appointed by the Ministry of Health, to an attack
of encephalitis, z'.e., an- inﬂammation of the central nervous
system, involving the brain and spinal cord and presenting
symptoms similar to Hsleepy sickness." Thus the child, should it
escape death, may be turned into a cripple, an epileptic, an
imbecile, or even a criminal.

Not so very long ago, Sir Buckston Browne, the eminent
retired surgeon who saved Darwin’s home for the nation, stated in
an interview (Daily Telegraph—June 16th, 1934) that “ the human
body was now shown to be the ﬁnest product of all the natural
forces that work on this planet,” while another eminent British
scientist has told us that it has taken nature many millions of years .
to fashion man, eliminating in the process what was unﬁt. May
not a humane man or woman, a lover of children and animals, be

 

 




 

HUMANE LIFE 27

allowed to ask why, then, interfere with nature’s ﬁnest product;
why defy nature, particularly as this desire to interfere accounts
for the large increase in the number of vivisectional experiments,
the hardening of the vivisector’s soul, and the searing of the
conscience of the upholder of vivisection.

Why should it surprise the inoculator if a mother protests
against her healthy child being used for the Schick test or any
other tests, all the more so, as no proof has been adduced that
diphtheria, scarlet fever, and other diseases can be prevented by
these means? Can the inoculator guarantee that it will do no
harm to the child, that it may not even kill it? He cannot and,
therefore, he will nbt. A study of the medical papers makes it
clear that some inoculated children do not get attacked by the
disease in question, while some do. In the same way some
children that have not been “immunised” remain free from the
disease while others do not.

As in the case of vaccination it may, after a hundred years,
be ascertained that the tests on children have done untold harm ;
that all the torture inﬂicted on thousands of animals has been in
vain; that we have travelled along the wrong road, getting
further away from the truth; that building on a foundation of
cruelty the ediﬁce erected has proved to be a curse to mankind, a
poisonous shell exhaling a miasma in which all the ﬁner feelings
of man are stiﬂed, in which the rule of love, and kindness, and
goodness of heart can gain no hold. All who hold that this rule
is the one making for the ultimate happiness of man—should join
the movement. What we oppose is not only a crime, but will
prove to be what some historians seem to consider worse than a
crime: a blunder. History teaches us that such “blunders”
react with disastrous effect on their authors. Furthermore it will
be found that nearly all these historical " blunders” have been
acts of cruelty.

 

 




 

 

 

 

28 HUMANE LIFE

Why should constant additions to our hospital accommodation
be necessary if we are travelling along the right road P

The Creator of this vast universe—who has given us eyes to
discern the light of celestial bodies which, travelling at the rate of
186,000 miles a second, yet takes 140 millions of years to reach
this planet—has also implanted in the heart of the friend of man a
love, loyalty and devotion which is beyond the comprehension of
man. Yet man dares to take this friend and, placing him on the
vivisector’s table, force him to undergo tortures previously unheard
of and let us hope, for the honour of mankind, unthought of, an
act of treachery beyond any recorded in the annals of time, a
betrayal for which mankind as a whole will have to pay and is
already paying a heavy price. Fate, as history teaches, is an
unappeasable taskmaster when man for his own selﬁsh ends
oversteps certain limits, breaking laws which his own perception
of right and wrong, of justice, of fair play, must tell him. unless he
be dead to all the ﬁner feelings, ought to be inviolable.

In times, now happily past, man used to inﬂict unspeakable
tortures on his fellow man for the beneﬁt of the latter’s soul;
at present he inflicts unspeakable tortures on his dumb fellow-
creatures for the beneﬁt of his own body—both inexcusable.
But as to which is the meaner, the more sordid, there can be no
doubt.

In former times the power of the self-appointed saver of our
souls had to be feared ; at present the power of the self-appointed
saver of our bodies is equally dangerous. and if we should forget,
be it but for the shortest of time, that the price of liberty is eternal
vigilance, we may through some innocuous looking Act of
Parliament ﬁnd ourselves, bound hand‘and foot, in the clutches of
a privileged, all powerful, and soulless bureaucracy.

But to return to our calves, though the procedure must be

 

 

 




 

 

 

HUMANE LIFE 29

most painful, theirs is indeed a bed of roses in comparison to that
of the miserable creatures in the laboratories, many of them being
clamped down with bands of steel in the most unnatural positions,
held so tightly that, when agony becomes past bearing, even the
momentary relief of a twitch is denied them. What does this
teach the rising generation P It teaches them that their elders, in
possession of the vote, uphold the old slogans of ” Might is Right”
and “The End justifies the Means.” Will they not get callous to
the sufferings of sentient beings, whether human or animal—and,
if callous to human suffering, where will it end? Will it not
recoil in some manner unforeseen on man and woman and child ?

°EDOCE§° OEDOCE-E’o

In the Nottingham Journal of October let, 1935, a letter was
published from H The students of Paton College ” describing what
they saw at the end of a fox-hunt. After some indignant remarks
they closed the letter as follows :—

“ Blood sports are a scourge to our civilization. We cannot
help but feel that there is something radically wrong in the
mentality of those who can delight in inﬂicting suffering. A'Such
sports are a relic of a barbarous age. To say the least, they are

inhuman. We, as Christians, will do our utmost to create a public

conscience that will wipe out this stain on our civilization, for we
have been deeply stirred by what we have seen this day.”

NOTE. It would be a good thing if the clergy would also, as
Christians, do the same as these young students.

 

 




 

 

 

 

3O HUMANE LIFE

Symposium.

THE GROUNDS FOR BELIEF THAT ANIMALS DO OR
CANNOT REASON.

OL. W. J. POLYBLANK writes :—“I do think that a close

C observance of the actions of certain animals tends to

convince us that they must possess an appreciable amount

of reasoning power: otherwise they could not act in the

wonderful manner that they do at certain times and in certain

circumstances. Many instances could be quoted, especially when
horses and elephants, etc., are studied.”

33 as 3)?

Miss E. F. Egan writes :——“All who have much to do with
animals and are in sympathy with them must often notice signs of
true, even if elementary. thinking powers. I might mention the
case of a neighbour’s collie dog who often attaches himself to me
when I visit local shops. He used, I understand, to be in the
habit of carrying his mistress’s bag, and one day, on his showing a
desire to take mine, I gave it to him. But the bag, when hanging
from his month by the handles, was too long to be carried without
dragging on the ground. “ Gyp,” being thus incommoded, quickly
let it go and, some way managing to turn it, caught it sideways, in
which position it did not reach the ground.

“ His calculations, like those of many “ reasoning ” human
beings, were too limited to meet the situation adequately, as it did
not worry him that the opening of the bag was now in the wrong

m”...._.....-..... _ ,

 




 

 

 

‘

HUMANE LIFE ‘ 31

place. Indeed, he was rather indignant when I, fearing for the
contents of the bag. rescued it. Nevertheless, I would like to
have seen what effect the scattering of parcels on the pathway
would have on the canine mind which, in this little incident,
showed, surely, thinking as well as instinctive powers—if indeed
the two can be separated into sharply distinct compartments of
consciousness. And are not both processes common to man and
animal in however different a degree P Only, when instinct shows
itself remarkably in man, we often call it “intuition ” or
” inspiration.”

“ Is it too much to hope, I wonder, that some day man will
give up trying to prove his superiority by loudly asserting his
monopoly of all the highest qualities? Such bragging makes one
think of the would-be aristocrat who seeks to show the blueness
of his blood in boasts of his ancestry and in insolence towards his
inferiors, lacking all the time the courteous bearing and all the
other signs of true gentle breeding. So will there not be much
more convincing evidence to support the “ Reasoning superiority ”
and “ Divine Image” claim—very dear to theologians—when man
habitually displays a reasonable consideration“ for all animal life
and a decent, not to say divine, protection of the creatures in his
power ? ”

¥ I 4*

Mr. E. Slocock :-——“My opinion is that animals are guided
only by instinct, though some are trained whilst quite young to do
certain things which they would not otherwise do. And yet I
think very highly of the instinct of animals and birds. It is the
chief endowment they have ; and most or ALL of them are true to
it. I cannot help feeling that animals and birds are better
sometimes than human beings, although to the latter is given the

power of reasoning. [For man at his worst is difﬁcult to beat].
When we say “So and so is a beast,” I think we are rather

 




 

 

 

 

3‘2 HUMANE LIFE

libelling the animal world. You perhaps know of'the man who
said that “the more he‘saw of his fellow man, the more he liked his
dog ! In faithfulness and true loyalty it is- surely difﬁcult to find
any one more loyal than a dog. But I do not think that animals or
birds were intended to reason, e.g., I” am not sure if a dog quite
knows that he is a dog or a bird that he is a bird.

HI can only hope that the people in this country will treat
birds and animals better than they have in the past ; and, for one
thing, I would put a stop to all birds’ nesting. Nor have they any
police force wherewith to guard and protect their homes from

burglary.”
(Symposium to be continued—opinions invited).

°EOCE° OEOaO

Notes.

I. Referring to Mr. F. Wyatt’s protest (described on page 6
of the January number of this magazine) an extension of the
mischief

 

as might have been foreseen by the ofﬁcials of the
B.B.C.——is the use now being made of the incident on the ﬁlm
pictures and at other entertainments when a cheap laugh is to be
raised. Many in the audiences are. no doubt, kind-hearted, and
they laugh when others do; whereas, if present at scenes of
torture and killing, or if they had the facts brought home to them
in any way, they would be sympathetic instead.

3% 3K 3K

II. Half hearted advocacy and inconsistency exist even
among the. ofﬁcials of some of our well-known societies for the
promotion of kindness to animals. As a minor example, the
Editor of this magazine received a small “ Animal Lover’s Diary ”
BOUND IN LEATHER.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

The following periodical publications
are recommended :—

“ Cruel Sports,”

“ The Vegetarian Messenger,”

“ The Vegetarian News,”

“ The Abolitionist,”

“ The Herald of the New World,”
“The Animals’ Friend,”

“The Animals’ Champion,”

“ Progress To-Day.”

 

 

 

 

HUMANE LIFE

Single copy 7d.” 1) t
y 05

Four (quarterly) copies per year 2/-l

 

Apply to THE EDITOR,
“ST. MALo,” CASSEL AVENUE,
BOURNEMOUTH, WEST.

 

 

Printed by H. Welsford, North Devon Printing Works, Ilfracombe.

 

 




 




