 

 

ow TO ANSWER

A MANUAL F395: SPEAKERS,
Dealing with the Chief points of
the Anti-vvivisection Controversy; /

 

 

_ Published SEPTEMBER. 1925.

 

pmcE TWOPENCE

, . PEBLISHED BY THE ‘7
British Union for Abolition of Vivisection,
52. (SHARING cnoss, LONDON, s.w.1.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 




 

 

., I N D E X .
PRACTICAL QUESTIONS
ETHICAL AND RELIGIOUS QUESTIONS
A.—AN2ESTHETICS, ANTISEPTIC, ANTHRAX ..
B.—FUNCTIONS OF THE BRAIN, BRAIN SURGERY
C.——CANCER RESEARCH, CLEANLINESS

D.—DRUGS, DYSENTERY, DIPHTHERIA ANTITOXIN, DEATH—
RATE OF DIPHTHERIA, DIGITALIS

E. ERGOT

 

G.~—GERM—THE0RY, GERMANY

H.~—-HYDR0PH0BIA, HUMAN VIVISECTION
I.~INSPECTORS, INFECTION, INFLUENZA, INOCULATION
K.——KIDNEY

L.-—LIES

M.——-MALTA FEVER, MALARIA, MENINGITIS, MORPHIA,
MINISTRY OF HEALTH

N. ~NEWSPAPERS

PAGES
PAGES
3~7
7~9
9*11
11—12

12—14

14—16
16

17~18

18—20

20—22
22—23
23—26

26—32
32—33,

 




 

INDEX—~—conti¢med .
O.-—--OVARIOTOMY, OPSONIC INDEX, OBJECT
P.—~-TPAIN '

R.~'~RABIES, ROCKEFELLER INSTITUTE, RESEARCH

I)EFENCE SOCIETY,

Stu—SURGERY, STATISTICS, SANITATION, SNAKE POISON,
SALVARSAN, SLEEPING SICKNESS, SERUM

T.~-TYPHOID, TETANUS, 71‘UBERCUIJN, .[pAWSON TAI'I‘,

TOXIN -ANTITOXIN
V.--VA‘CCIN_E, VACCINATION

W.--—-WASSERMANN TEST, WIDAL’S TEST, WOUNDS, DR.
GEORGE WILSON

Y. -—«YELLOW FEVER

Z. --—ZYMOTIC, ZOOLOGY

33*36

36—89

40~44

65459
69—70
70—71

 




 

HOW Tg_§NSWER.

PRACTICAL QUESTIONS.
(1) Q.——How can surgeons learn to operate unless
they practise on animals?

A.——By the study of anatomy, by watching many _
operations performed by their teachers, by com-
mencing with the simplest operations and acquir-
ing, by constant practice, a continually improv-
ing skill. It is usual for medical students to do
certain operations on the dead human body.
Vivisectors know that it is not necessary to
practise on, animals, for they allowed a clause to
be inserted in the Vivisection Act (Cruelty to
Animals Act, 1876), stating that no vivisection
is to be performed for the purpose of “attaining
manual skill.” Therefore, the very thing which
the questioner regards as essential is actually
forbidden in law!

"(2) Q.—But how can they learn entirely new opera-
tions P

A .—By observation, careful thought, and some
degree of genius. Thus Sir Henry Morris, then
President of the Royal College of Surgeons, told
the Royal Commissioners on Viyisection that he
was the ﬁrst man to cut out stone from the
kidney, and that he learnt to do it “not at all
from experiments on animals, but from what I
have learnt by experience from operations on
the liver and other organs inthe human Subject.”

(3) Q.~—Why do you say that men and animals are
different? Are they'not made on the same,

3

 




 

 

plan, and does not strychnine kill a dog and
also a man? '

A.—-Speaking broadly, there are likenesses between
men and animals, but the points of likeness are
far easier to discern than the differences, and were
known long ago. The questions being investi—
gated now are so advanced that the tiniest
difference is of the utmost importance. Poisons
vary in their action on almost every species of
animal; but if one poison were found which had
exactly the same action on an animal and on a .
man, you could not learn that fact until you had
experimented on the man! If experiments on
man are necessary, it is clear that experiments
on animals are misleading.

(4) Q.~——How can doctors learn how to treat disease
unless they find out, by inoculating animals,
how the disease arises P
A .——Human beings do not get their diseases by being
inoculated, but in quite other ways. Therefore,
to inoculate an animal cannot produce exactly
the same effect; and the only thing proved is the
danger of the practice of inoculation.

(5) Q.~—But are not diseases caused by germs?

A .wAnti—vivisectionist doctors deny it. Vivisection—
ist doctors believe it, but cannot prove it .1 Some
people have the disease without the germ, and
others have the germ without the disease. That
a guinea-pig, inoculated with some germ, will
sicken and die, does not prove that it has caught
the disease. A guinea-pig has acquired tuber-

4

 

 




 

culosis by being inoculated with cotton and
with silver wire 1 ,
(6) Q.—-Have you chapter and verse for every state -
ment you make? '
A .wSuch is provided in the literature of the British '
Union. If you ask a question which I cannot
answer, write to the Secretary, British Union
for Abolition of Vivisection, 32', Charing Cross,
London, S.W.1. State your question clearly,
and a reply, with the quotations you want, will
be Sent without delay. That I cannot, on the
spur of the moment, answer a question does not -
prove that there is no answer. Medical questions
' receive medical answers. _ '
(17') Q.~——-Ought‘we not to be guided by the majority
of the profession? .
A .--All advance is made by pioneers. . Gradually,
' the minority becomes the majority. Advance
would be quicker if the majority were not so
opposed to change, and therefore unwilling to
listen to unpopular ideas. Progressive people
are always ready to listen to new ideas. But for
them, we should still be practising blood-letting,
which. was the universal panacea for so long,
simply because the medical profession was ‘
supposed ”to be “unanimous” about it. The
profession was also “unanimous” about the
inoculation with smallpox matter which preceded
vaccination, and which is now recognised as
dangerous and forbidden by law .‘
(8) Q.-—What have the vivisectors to gain?
.-"1.—~-A11 the honours fall to them, and many money

:,¢ :34 b

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
    

  

prizes also are given for “Research.” To be in
the fashion is of the utmost importance for their
advancement. Moreover, apart from the cruelty,
research of any kind is interesting, and they, no
doubt, have a genuine belief in it.

.w—Is it reasonable to suppose that scientific

men would waste their time on What leads
to no useful result P»

A .——You cannot possibly hold any decided views about

anything—«history, politics, art orreligion—with-
out believing that somebody who thinks differ—
ently from yourself is wasting time. And
history proves that large classes of men have

' done it.
.m—Are not the animals anaesthetised?
.——-Yes, for the initial operation, though the same

care and attention cannot be given as in the case
of a human being, and two vivisectors have held
different opinions as to whether an animal was
unconscious. The conditions associated with the
securing of the animal for experiment render the
question of complete anaestlietisation throughout
the procedure very difﬁcult to gauge. But many
animals are allowed to recover from the anaesthe-_
tie, and then the suffering begins. Also, there
is much after—suffering from inoculations and
feeding experiments, etc.

(ll) Qsé—Why do you relate cruelties that happened

a long time ago?

A.———-For English experiments, any date after 1876

will do, because the Act was passed in that year,
under which experiments are still performed.

(5

 

 




3e
id
as
1e
1e

ut
1y
re
1d

76
Lr,
d.

 

 

 

And even the experiments performed before that
date show what vivisectors are capable of, for
they have always been men of the educated
and reﬁned classes. It is not a case of out-
- growing ignorance. '

(12) Q.———Are not all the cruelties done abroad?
A.—-—No;' we give chapter and verse for British
experiments. Each country blames the other;-
the vivisectors always allege that in their own
country less pain is inﬂicted than in others.
But they all treat each other as friends and
brothers, and our English vivisectors pay high
honour even" to men like Neisser, who have

performed experiments on human beings.

ETHICAL AND RELIGIOUS QUESTIONS.
(1') Q .-—Would you not sacrifice a dog to save a child P
A .——Y ou have no right to ask that question until
you can prove that the vivisection of a dog has
saved a child. Nor have you the right to use
theword “ sacriﬁce, ” which implies nothing more
than death. Our objection is not to killing, but
to torturing. Although parents might, through
the weakness‘of human nature, allow either a
dog or another human being to be tortured to
save their own child, nothing can alter the fact
that it would be wrong.
(2) Q.——Has an animal the same rights as a man?
A.———No; but the least of all rights is to be spared
the worst of all wrongs. That vivisection is
the worst of all wrongs is proved by the reception
always given to the idea of using human subjects.

7

 




 

 

Q.—~»Is not man alone possessed of a soul?

A .m—A soul should make pain more bearable, by
giving a man the strength to endure it. This is
a question of bodies, not souls.

Q.~——Why bother about animals, when human
beings suffer so much?

A .v~-~We may ask in reply: “If human beings suffer
so much, why increase the sum total of. suffering
by inﬂicting it deliberately on others?” Animals
are -more helpless than human beings, and the
things done to them are much more atrocious
than anything done to the latter. Pain and
suffering are. just as bad in the one case as in the
other—let the greatest sympathy go to the
greatest suffering. Moreover, those who are kind
to animals will be kind to their own species also.

Q.-~—~If you have the right to kill an animal, how
can you say that you have not the right to put it
to pain and suffering, which is a lesser thing P -

[Apr—Where is the alternative? Vivisectors do both!

The real question should be, “ If I have the right '
to kill an animal may I torture it as well?”
The answer is “No.” W e have given that
answer in the case of man, by allowing killing
in war, and‘in punishment for murder, but
stopping the old practice of torturing prisoners
of war and criminals. '

(Jew—Are not the Vivisectors often good men?

A .-~Y es; so were the Inquisitors. a

Q.-——-—Is not the motive for vivisection good?

A .~——Not in the case of every man engaged in it; but
a good motive does not alter a bad deed.

8

 




r?"<!

B

(IQ L5.

Gamma“:

«JFK?! 7

m

' ' '— ur—

3s

:1.“ (”Shh-5

 

(<35) Q. --~-~Is not a man of more value than a sheepmor
many sparrows P '

i .w-It may depend on the man. The reference is to
two passages of Scripture. Both those passages
directly inculcate kindness to animals, not dis~
regard for them. Consider the context. ..

(9') Qstid not Christ cure a man by sending some
‘ demons into swine?

A No ; the man was cured by a _word. The incident .
of the swine followed; and the death of the swine-
was swift, quite unlike vivisection. In fact,
it may have been the most merciful kind of death
the swine were likely to have. '

(I) Q.——Were not ANAESTHETICS discovered
through experiments on animals? ,
A.-—It is admitted in the Final Report of the last
Royal Commission on Vivisection that this was

not so (p. 26). Simpson, who discovered
chloroform, experimented upon himself and his
friends; Sir Humphrey Davy did the same with
nitrous oxide; ether was ﬁrst tried in dentistry.
Local anaesthetics were tried on human beings

by Moore, Richardson and “others. In spite of

all the use of animals in trying the newer
anaesthetics, nothing can be learnt apart from
tests on the human subject, for the effects of
anaesthetics vary on different species-thus, a,
man becomes unconscious from half a drachm to

one drachm of chloroform, but a dog needs four
drachms; yet dogs are easily killed by chloral
hydrate, of which a man can take fairly large

9

 




 

 

 

 

(‘3)

quantities. Even where the action of an
anmsthetic happens to be similar upon different
species, this could not. have been ascertained
until the necessary human experiment was made.

Q .»~--—-Did [not Lister revolutionise surgery by intro?—

ducing the ANTISEPTIC method, which he
learnt by experimenting on animals?

A .~—It was not Lister who revolutionised surgery,

although he generally gets the credit for it. His
father—in—law, Dr. Syme, Florence Nightingale,
and a trio of brilliant surgeonsTLawson Tait,
Granville Bantock and Sir William Savory——
were the real pioneers in this country of modern
aseptic surgery, which has quite taken the place
of antiseptic surgery, Those three surgeons
refused to follow Lister, who used carbolic in the
hope of killing germs and found that it killed the
patients! They simply insisted on perfect clean-
liness, as Semmelweis, the Austrian pioneer of
asepsis, had done, and they achieved results
which amazed Lister's followers. Afterwards,
Lister admitted that he had been wrong, and, as
a great surgeon with a large practice, he took his
place with them as one of the reformers of surgery.
Sir Almroth Wright denounces the use of anti—
septics, and so long ago as August, 1907, the

‘ Lomcet stated that they were “by general consent

abandoned.” It is true that some surgeons still
use them, but only in very weak solutions.
People who are determined to give Lister the

, ' credit which rightly belongs to others now declare
that asepsis grew out of antisepsis as a natural

10

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

development; but this could not be so, seeing
that it was practised byTait and his friends as
a deﬁnite protest against Lister when antisepsis
was the fashion.

(3) Q.—~Did not Pasteur discover, by vivisection, a
cure for ANTHRAX? ‘ ,
A.—~—Pasteur claimed that his anthrax serum was
infallible, but Dr. Klein, of our Local Govern—
ment Board, even after Pasteur’s sensational
“tests,” declared that it was “absolutely in—
effective.” With vigorous pushing, it has
achieved a sale, like other products turned out at
,the Pasteur Institute, but that, as all the records
Of commerce show, does not prove its value. Our
farmers have been advised by the Government
that it is not needed on clean farms. As to
anthrax in the human subject, the death-rate

has rather tended to increase since its use.

’ B.
(1) QsmWere not the FUNCTIONS OF THE BRAIN
discovered by Vivisection? .

A .--As the speech—centre, which is peculiar to man,
was discovered. without animal experiment, it
is quite clear that all the other centres could
have been so discovered. The path of discovery
in such a case lies in the comparison of symptoms
and physical signs noticed in a human being
during life, with the appearance of his brain after
death, the knowledge so gained being tabulated
and used when another patient with similar

‘ symptoms appears. This has been admitted even

I l

 




 

 

 

by Viyisectors, who have also freely acknowledged
the errors into which they were led by, attempting
to argue from the brain of an animal to that of

a man.

(2) Q.w~Was not Sir Victor Horsley a specialist in .

BRAIN SURGERY, and did he not owe his
successes to the Vivisections he performed?

.4 .»——It is very likely that he owed his successes to the
large practice he acquired, and his failures to his
Vivisection of animals ., Nothing but experience
makes a successful surgeon. Sir Victor Horsley
never would face debate; nor would he give
statistics of the deaths following his operations.

(3) Q.—-—Was it not by experiments on animals that
it was discovered that the disease of BERI-
BERI is caused by eating polished rice?

A ..-~That claim has been made, but it is absurd to
compare the digestion of men with that of
pigeons. Beri-beri occurs where rice is not eaten
at all. In the year 1910 there were 433 deaths
from this disease in Calcutta and in‘ the next
year only 8, but there Was no evidence that diet
had changed in the least, and the milling of rice
went on as before. It is probably a disease of
marl—nutrition, but mal-nutrition depends upon
economic conditions, and not upon knowledge
concerning a single article of diet.

C. ,. '
(_ 1) Q .--~Would you stop CANCER RESEARCH, While
cancer takes such terrible toll of the people?
A .-——I would support cancer research, if some really

12

 

 
   

     

 

 




 

(

2

sensible. scheme were formulated; but not the
cruel and ridiculous experiments on'animals,
which have wasted so many thousands of pounds
for over a score of years and producednothing.
Growing mouse-tumour from one generation of
mice to another is probably interesting, but it has
done nothing'for human beings. Painting mice
with tar to see if that will produce cancer would
be more sensible if human beings were in the
habit of painting themselves with tar and thus
acquiring the disease; but even that would
provide no analogy, since the tumours produced
in a mouse by tar-painting are not so produced
in a rat. 'Mouse and chicken tumours are not
human “cancer,” which has never been pro-
duced in an animal. ‘

) Q.——Does not the CLEANLINESS, Which you

advocate, consist in the destruction of germs P

A .——Not at all. There are many harmful substances

which have nothing to do with germs. The
ﬂrlomual of E lemémfm/y [l1 ilz'tmy H ygz'ene mentions
some of the thingsewhich water. can pick up—
clay, fragments of wood, vegetable refuse and
decomposing animal mattere—aiid remarks that
“these impurities, like all foreign matter, are
apt to irritate or inﬂame the lining membranes
of the stomach and intestines, causing indiges—
tion, colic and diarrhea, and possibly putting
the intestinal canal in a. more suitable condition

,to favour the growth of any disease—causing

germs that'may be swallowed.” This is really
funny, for it admits that “indigestion, colic and

13

    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
   
   
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
    




diarrhoea,” and “an inﬂamed condition of the
intestines” may be caused apart from germs, and
these symptoms (especially the last) are those
which accompany fevers like enteric. Why,
then, to suit the decrees of medical fashion,
should this be ascribed to a germ?

. D.

(1) Q.-—-How could we learn the effects of DRUGS
. Without trying them on animals? ,
A.-—~The knowledge of the poisonous nature of the
majority of drugs has been discovered by accident
in the human subject. Animals can constitute
no guide in this particular. Rabbits can eat
belladonna with impunity; dogs can take
4 inorphia far in excess of man; apes, strychnine;
goats, hemlock; birds, opium. All these are
poisons to us in comparatively small doses. How,
then, could we learn the effects of drugs on man,
save 'by trying them ourselves? Even where the

effects are similar, we have to prove it.

(2) (LL-“Did not our troops in Gallipoli suffer from
DYSENTERY, and not typhoid, as suggested
by anti -Vivisectionists P

A .wFleet-Surgeon Bassett Smith, a practical bacterio—
logist, told the Royal Society of Medicine that
in his opinion all the cases in the near East
labelled dysentery were really typhoid. But if
the Gallipoli disease were dysentery, against
which there was no inoculation, nobody can boast
that the low death-rate from typhoid in France
was due to inoculation, because in the whole

H

 

 

 




(Dr-f(U¢—7“U

'0»-

\-

 

war period there were only about 200 deaths from
dysentery on the French front. What saved the -
men from dysentery there? Clearly, both typhoid
and dysentery depend upon sanitation. ‘

(3) Q.——What.is DIPHTHERIA ANTITOXINP
A.—'—Brieﬂy——;b0z'soned horse-blood. Material derived

from a diphtheritic throat is continually injected
into a horse, causing feverishness and swellings,
etc. Then the horse ’5 blood is drawn, often
from 16 to 20 pints at. a single operation. The
serum, or antitoxin, is the part of the blood that
rises to the top in a vessel. The horses, after ‘
continual injections and bleedings, are apt to
die of rupture of the liver, internal bleeding
and other special forms of disease.

(4) Q.—~Has not the use of antitoxin greatly reduced

the DEATH -RATE OF DIPHTHERIA?

A.—~No; while other fevers have greatly declined

with improved sanitation, diphtheria remains

. a ~much more serious scourge. The death—rate

from this disease, per million of the population,
increased 25 per cent. during the ﬁrst 15 years
after its introduction, as compared with the
previous 15 years. It is true that fewer deaths
have been claimed out of the number of cases;
but this is due to the artiﬁcial increase of cases.
As soon as diphtheria began to be diagnosed by
the presence of a germ, “cases” miraculously
multiplied, for most of us harbour this germ,
and doctors began to look out for it and'to put
down ordinary sore-throats as “diphtheria.” Out
of So. many cases there naturally appeared to be

15

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

. fewer deaths, but while, in way country, boasts
were made of a lowered death-rate, there were
- often actually more deaths. This was certainly
the case in our London hospitals. Antitoxined
children still die of diphtheria, as anybody who
' makes inquiry can prove; doctors who do not
use anttoxin cure diphtheria; and antitoxin
itself, being an extremely dangerous product,
undoubtedly kills a great many, and injures
others. It has often killed, within a few minutes,
healthy persons, who took it in the hope of avoid—
ing the disease. Facts and ﬁgures concerning
these things will be supplied on application to
the British Union for Abolition of V ivisection.
(5) Q .———Was not DIGITALIS brought into use through
' experiments on animals?

A..—-Experi1nents with digitalis have proved most
misleading. It increases the blood pressure in
animals, and this has been for many years a
standard class demonstration. Students have
been taught that the same would occur with
human beings; but medicinal doses have no
such effect. (Lancet, July 18, 1914.)

E.
(1) Q.———Was not the value of ERGOT discovered by
vivisection 2’

A .—-——Dr. Cushny told the Royal Commission on
V ivisection that ergot was used “ long before these
researches were entered upon.” He added that
‘ doctors differ in regard to its value. (Dr. Hadwen,

like many others, has tried and discarded it.)

16

 




COD ‘1‘: mv pr-ru 1-H“. W

413‘

 

 

 

G ,

' (1) Q .~—~Why do you deny the GERM -THEORY of

disease?

A .—-Because there is practically always indication of
a disease before any germ can be found. Pasteur,
without knowing it, admitted that a germ could
not be the original cause of illness, for he said
that “in a state of health the body is closed
against the action of disease germs.” The
original loss of health of. which he spoke is the
real beginning, and that had a cause. The
tubercle bacillus is generally not found until the
disease has progressed some three months. An
experienced physician is wiser than a bacterio-
logist, for he will recognise signs of the disease
while the bacteriologist is still vainly looking for
the germ. Sometimes the germ generally ‘
associated with a particular disease is never
found at all, although the patient obviously has
the disease. On the other hand, healthy persons
will harbour the germ; or the germ of one disease
may be found in a patient suffering from another.
The fact is, germs change their shape and turn one
into another. This has been deﬁnitely established
at the Pasteur Institute itself. We .all harbour
germs, and could not live without them. The only
connection they have with disease is that they may

.unduly multiply under certain conditions of ill-
health. We seek to enlighten, the public on these
matters because the germ theory has been made
the excuse for nine-tenths of the cruel inoculation
experiments carried out on animals.

17

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

(2) Q.‘-——Was not smallpox stamped out in GER-
' MANY by the passage of a compulsory
Vaccination Act in 1874?

A .———There was a frightful epidemic of smallpox in
Germany in 1871-2, although there were so many
regulations about vaccination being a condition
of entering school, or university, or the army,
or getting married, etc., together with compul—
sion if a. case of smallpox occurred anywhere,
that vaccination was then almost universal. There
were, in 1872, 262 smallpox cases to every
100,000 of the population. When the Vaccina—
tion Act referred to (which was only a reorganisa—
tion of the Prussian laws for the new Imperial
State of Germany, created by the Franco—
PruSsian War) waspassed, the cases had already
dwindled down to nine per 100,000, and by the
time it was in working order, that is, in the follow—
ing year, they had reached only three per 100,000.
Clearly, the smallpox had disappeared before
the Act came into being. In spite of the strict—
ness of the German laws, there is a fair amount of
smallpox in Germany now. In 1919, there were
.704 deaths from the disease. The record of
England, with. its neglect of vaccination, com-
pares very favourably with this.

H. .
(1) Q.——~Did not Pasteur discover a cure for HYDRO -
PHOBIA P ~
A .—~No; he only invented a “preventive.” Persons

who really had the disease were admitted to be

18

 

 




 

 

 

 

  

incurable. Those who were “prevented” from
getting it were those who would not have got it
in any case. Dr. Karl Pearson, the famous
statistician, declares that no reliable statistics
concerning Pasteur ’5 treatment are available.
The treatment consists of inoculation with the
dried spinal cords of rabbits, which have ﬁrst been
paralysed by the. injection into their brains of
matter that originally came from the brains of
mad dogs. Pasteur deliberately made the dogs
mad, causing frightful sufferings. Over 3,000
cases have been recorded Where persons inoculated
have, nevertheless, died of hydrophobia ; in some '
cases they developed “paralytic rabies,” from
which, the rabbits are said to suffer. This—
especially where the dog that bit them remained
well—suggests that their death was due to the
inoculation. Hydrophobia is due to injury to a
nerve. Cases are on record Where it has been
caused by fear alone; for action on the nerves
may be purely psychic. But the nerve injury
is generally due to a bite; it sets up inﬂammation
in the periphery and passes along the spinal cord
to the centres supplying the different sets of
muscles in turn, ﬁnally reaching the larynx
through the laryngeal nerve, partly closing it
and causing what used to be mistaken for an
attempt to “ bark.”

(2) Q.-—-Is there not such a thing as HUMAN VIVIV-

SECTION, and is not animal vivisection a
better alternative? '

A .M—Human ViVisection, Where it occurs, is naturally

19

V. ., W-.W~._vmiw—W > -: ~Mz.‘ " . ‘ V-
, . __ i i i.a..-_..i....r ..-._‘::_._..._....:tvr*"«

 

   




 

 

 

 

 

‘ instances are on record. ’ It'is always‘the Vivi-

sectors ”of animals who aretempted to carry

their researches further, and to use the human
subject. Thus, animal ViViSeCtion is not a
substitute for, but a direct incentive to, human
Vivisection. Dr. Preston King, of Bath, asking
for the use of criminals in 1905, complained that
“at present we are wandering in the dark”
(animal Vivisection being so unsatisfactory).
The doctor who only wishes to relieve pain is
not tempted to experiment upon his fellow men;
the Vivisector is. When Dr. Neisser, who
inoculated young girls with syphilis and was
hissed in his-own city (Breslau, Germany), came
to England in 1911, the West London Medico-
Chirurgical Society presented him with a gold
medal. ’ ‘

I.
(1) Q.-=—-Do not the INSPECTORS see that‘there is
no cruelty in British laboratories?

A .-——The inspectors are chosen from the classes trained
in Vivisection, and necessarily so. One of the
first (Dr. Poore) made a Violent attack on anti-
Vi'visectionists, and told his successor that he
was not to act as a detective. One of the later
inspectors had been a member of the-,"Research
Defence Society; and another (Lt-Col: Lelean)
himself held a Vivisection licence up to the year
1920, and performed experiments in gas~poison~
ing. The inspectors’ Yearly Returns are_nothing

20

kept dark; yet, in spite of this handicap, many ‘

 
   

 

 

    

 




1 _
[‘V

15

 

it
.;
l

 

    
   

 

 
  

but a ' laboured defence of vivisection. The

. ,_ inspectors are appointed to see that the Act is

fulﬁlled; that is, that the experiments are carried
out in licensed places by licensed persons, etc.
There has never been the slightest evidence that
they were concerned with the sufferings of
animals.

(2) Q.——What is INFECTION, if it is not the passing

of a germ fro’m one persOn to another?

A .——It may be due to poisonous exhalations from the

breath, or to the ﬁne, invisible scales cast into
the air when skin dries after fever. Epidemics
are often atmospheric. Any insanitary condition
mayvrob the air of its oxygen and throw up gases
from decomposing matter, which further im-
poverish it. The degeneration of the, air acts
upon persons of low vitality, and when all the.
susceptible material is used up, the epidemic 7
ends. If germs, which multiply with. incredible
rapidity, were constantly passing infection from
one person to another, there seems no reason why
the disease should ever stop. We do not deny
that infection exists, but its action is grossly
exaggerated, in order to suit the germ theory.

(3) Q.——What causes INFLUEN 11A?
A .——This appears certainly to be one of the diseases

which arise from insanitary conditions and are
carried by the air. The great epidemic that
followed the war struck even ships in mid-ocean.
The condition of the widespread battle—ﬁelds,

7 with their unprecedented array of unburied or

half-buried corpses of men and animals, was, no

21

 




doubt, responsible. Plague, smallpox and
inﬂuenza have a certain afﬁnity, and are apt to
follow in the wake of war. Probably what
we named “inﬂuenza” would have been called
“plague” in our earlier history. When insani—
tation was at its worst, and burial conditions
shocking, ' epidemics of this kind frequently
occurred in times of peace; now, they only
come after war, when the march of sanitation
has been arrested. Of course, many ailments
are called “inﬂuenza” which bear little or no
likene s to the epidemic which caused so many
sudden deaths in 1920. It is a convenient term
to describe whatever the doctor cannot diagnose.

(4) Q.—~—Was INOCULATION of use in dealing With
influenza?

A .-—--No; this is now generally admitted.

. K.

(1) Q.-——Was it not discovered through Vivisection
that it is possible to remove the KIDNEY
with safety P _

A .————The kidney is said to have been ﬁrst removed
in 1869. But before that, one kidney had often
been removed by accident, when it was proved
that the other kidney carried on the work. No
experiments were needed, but only a correct.
knowledge of anatomy, to guide the operator as to

, which arteries to tie, which nerves to avoid, etc.
People are sometimes born with only one kidney.
Dr. Hadwen found one of these in the course of
his own medical experience, at Bristol in 1892.

 

 

 

 

22

 

 

 




 

 

 

    

(2) Q.—But was it not discovered by experiments
on dogs, that a man can live with not even
one sound kidney?

A.——No; Sir J. Rose Bradford cut out portions of
dogs’ kidneys. All that he discovered was the
smallest amount of kidney with which one
particular dog survived. The dogs died at
various intervals—some sooner, some later.
How could that possibly show how long a man
would survive the operation, or whether he
would, like some of the dogs, not survive it at
all? 1

Moreover, Sir J. Rose Bradford gave the
following reason for his experiments, which were
very cruel: “The object of these experiments
was to see whether it was possible to produce
in animals, by diminishing the amount of kidney
substance, a condition at all analogous to what
is found in human Bright’s disease—for the
purpose, I need hardly say, of investigating
Bright’s disease” (Royal Commission Evidence,
Q. 17690). Nothing like Bright’s disease was
produced in the dOgs, so the experiments were
obviously useless.

L. 1
(1) Q.——Do not Anti -vivisectionists tell LIES P*
A.—If Anti—vivisectionists make mistakes, they
invariably withdraw any false statements. But
such are exceedingly rare. They know how a

 

* This question is by no' means unusual at open— air meetings,
It therefore needs no apology.

    

23




 

 

 

mistake dai‘nages their cause, and‘are far more
careful than ordinary people. Here, however,
are a few of the false statements, or grossly

misleading suggestions, made by Vivisectionists,

during the controversy on inoculation during

the war.

‘ (C)

(a) That the japanese, in their war with Russia,

had been inoculated. (This was deﬁnitely
stated in the Pall [Mall Ga::ette, February 5,
1915, and suggested by Sir William Osler in
the phrase, “The Japanese went into the
Russian campaign as fully prepared against
bacilli as against bullets”; which was
repeated throughout the Press as an argument
in favour of inoculation.) The japanese were
not inoculated.

That there was no -»inoculation in the Boer War
(Illustrated London News, January 2, 1915).
This untruth was constantly repeated, in order
to draw a comparison between the Boer War
and the European War. Inoculation was
largely practised in the Boer War. It was its
failure there that caused the Japanese to
refuse its use. ,

The number of deaths from typhoid was con-
stantly falSiﬁed in the Press; in one case
128 deaths became 18; all corrections were
refused. * -

Here also are some of the falsehoods told abou
vaccination and smallpox.

(a)

The late: Dr. Ernest Hart (Editor of the
British Medical journal), published the state-

.24

  

       
   
   
       
   
    
    
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
  
 

 




  

 

 

ment that 40,000 persons died of smallpox
in the town of Ceara in Brazil. It was
afterwards discovered that the popula-
tion of Ceara had never been more than
20,000.

(b) A. false statement, to support vaccination,

Concerning the number of deaths from small-
pox in the French and German armies
respectively, was ﬁrst made in the British
Medical journal in 1872; it was challenged,
and publicly withdrawn; it was resuscitated,
and again withdrawn by Mr. Rider Haggard;
it was reproduced in the Lancet in 1901, and
again apologised for, when challenged. It
will probably reappear many times. _
A leaﬂet now published by the Research
Defence Society gives statistics concerning
an outbreak of smallpox “in at school” at
Ossett, Yorkshire. The outbreak was not
in the school at all, but in the town; when
only one case was discovered in the school, it
was promptly closed. The comparative
ﬁgures given of vaccinated and unvaccinated
scholars, as if they were all boarders living
under the same conditions, are therefore
entirely false. This has been pointed out to
the Research Defence Society, which still
distributes the leaﬂet.

(d) In the Gloucester epidemic of 1923 (which

really killed nobody), a man was sent to the
smallpox hospital with a few spots. He
died of “hemiplega and delirium tremens,”

25

 

  




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

as certiﬁed by the doctor placed in charge by
the Ministry of Health itself; there was no
mention whatever of smallpox, yet the
llieddCal head of the Ministry in London (Sir
G. Newman) changed the ctmgnoszs and entered
the death as due to “fatal smallpox.”
(e)'The BedfordsMre Times of October 7, 1921,
reports a meeting of the Bedford Rural Dis—
trict Council, at which the M.O.H., Dr.
' Parbury, reported that he had, in agreement
With the hospital doctor, certified a vaccinated
boy as a case of smallpox, and had received a
letter from the Ministry of Health to say
that“ as the boy who was thought to have had

smallpox had been successfully .Vaccinated, .

it was not Qzﬁcmtly a case of smallpox.” ,
Our opponents need not accuse us of telling

“lies.”

. . M.

(1) Q.-——Was not MALTA FEVER banished through
the stopping of the use of goats’ milk,
which had been disseminating it among
our troops in Malta, and was not this dis-
covery of the danger of the milk due to
vivisection P .

A .——The whole of this fairy tale was explained and
discredited by Dr. Hadwen in two articles which
he contributed to the Contemporary Review in
August and November, 1909. '

Two facts disprove it, apart from others which
can be added. The first is that when Commis—

26'




 

 

sioners were sent to Malta to study the possibility
of food infection, by separating those who con-
sumed particular foods from those who did not, and
judging the result in regard to the fever, they
reported that, whatever else might be the cause,
milk certainly was not. (The only milk used in
Malta was goats’ milk.) Now, if Sir David
Bruce’s theory that a germ in the milk caused
the fever were correct, those common—sense
experiments would have corroborated, and not
contradicted it. The second is the extraordinary
difference in the attack rate among the Army,
Navy, and Civil population respectively, showing
that the fever Was due to certain conditions,
which affected these three classes in varying
degrees. The attack—rate in the Army was 180
per, 1,000; in the Navy, 49;, and in the Civil
7 population, 4'. . '

The Army suffered from the worst conditions;

when these were remedied by the removal of'

the men to sanitary barracks, the fever-rate
went down with a rush, prior to the stopping of
the goats’ milk. The Naval rate was only
reduced gradually—#not suddenly, as in the case
of the Army; it declined in proportion as the
sewage was removed from the tideless harbour
and carried out to sea; while such vigorous
sanitary measures were taken that the attack
rate in the Civil population also declined from
4 to 2, although the people were drinking, more
goats’ milk than ever before, since they could not
sell it to the soldiers and sailors. ‘

27

l

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(2) Q.«~What experiments were performed on

animals in order to establish Bruce’s theory P
\A .—-Monkeys were injected with sea—water from the

Grand Harbour, artiﬁcial storms of dust con-
taminated with urine and excreta were created
and blown into their nostrils; and they were
given food to eat which was mixed with the
dejecta of their infected companions. They were
kept in cramped conditions in the hot sun and
every effort was made to make them ill. Some
200 were used. ' .

(3) Q,—~—Were not some goats shipped to.America,
and did not everybody on board, practically,
Who drank their milk, get the fever? ,

A.———That is the story told .by Sir David Bruce

to the Royal Commission on Vivisection, but
the facts are these. A boat took 65 goats to
Antwerp, and out of 27 passengers and crew, only
ﬁve were even suspected (by their reacting to an
ofﬁcial but misleading test) to be suffering from
Malta fever. When they got to AntWerp the
goats were transhipped, and went to America
With 63 persons on board, and the master of the
ship and also its owners stated that none of
these men suffered from any illness whatever.
There are further discrepancies in Sir David
Bruce’s story, which should be studied in Dr.
Hadwen’s article.

(4) Q.—~Was not MALARIA banished from Panama

_ , by a vigorous campaign against mosquitoes,

enabling the canal to be constructed?
A .mMosquito destruction formed a very small part of

’28

 




 

the sanitary measures taken-«~50 small that it ‘is
- hardly worth mentioning. The conditions under
which the French had previously worked were
appalling ; sanitation was m'l ; so much garbage lay
about everywhere that rats were thick on the
ground, and it was difﬁcult to avoid treading on
them. The Americans immediately put things to
rights, with the result that all diseases declined , and
not only malaria. General Gorgas himself gave the.
ﬁgures, when lecturing before the Royal Society
of Medicine on March 23, 1914. Malaria had
been the chief. disease, and its fall was slightly
more rapid; but it is safe to say that the same
causes operated. If you destroy the swamps
in which mosquitoes breed, you also destroy
a well-known insanitary condition. Subsoil
drainage does more to banish malaria than any
mosquito measures.
(5) Q.~—~,Is malaria in any sense due to mosquitoes?
A .~-—Mosquitoes, of course, cannot cause malaria,
which exists withOut them. H. Savage Landor
and other travellers describe how they have 'been
attacked by malaria where there are no
mosquitoes. Dr. Granville Bantock says that
in Rhodesia and other places there is least fever
where the mosquitoes are in greatest number.
It is possible for the mosquito to convey the
' malarial poison from man to ~man, but its
activity in that direction has been very much
exaggerated. In any case, the ﬁrst man must
have acquiredrthe malaria-independently, before
the mosquito could begin to act as a carrier.

 

29

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(6) Q.——What experiments were performed on

animals to prove this mosquito theory?

A..~—~—None that were of any use. Sir Ronald Ross

experimented on birds, but he only found that
another variety of mosquito conveyed a somewhat
similar disease to birds, but not to man. The
theory could only be proved, so far as it is proved,
by seeing that people protected from mosquitoes
in a malarial district did not get the disease,
whereas persons bitten by a malaria-conveying
mosquito in a nonnmalarious district could get
it. There was no way of making this experi-
ment saveby using volunteer‘human beings, and
if the theory has any value at all, which is
doubtful, the credit is entirely due to the persons
who offered themselves for the test.

, (7) Qg-wDid not Flexner, of New York, discover a

valuable, inoculation for Cerebro-spinal
MENINGITIS?

A .—«~F1exner gave certain ﬁgures as to a reduction

in the death-rate in his own clinic, and some of
his followers have done the same; but it is easy
to compile such statistics. He admitted that
he excluded all the cases which survived the
ﬁrst dose of the serum less than 24 hours; a second
elimination included the rapidly fulminant cases,
and a third elimination included cases of
secondary and mixed infections. Meanwhile
the death-rate remained as high as ever outside
his clinic, although the serum was used.

(8) ngas not this disease very serious during the

war P

30

i , 5 im-"— ”has"- ﬁr...“ .ﬁm _,,.,.-_ Y a.

 




 

A .eYes; Captain S. Neave, in the Sanitary Record
- (January 14, 1916), innocently remarked that it .
seemed to be a disease of soldiers and babies.
Cerebro-spinal meningitis has followed in the‘
wake of inoculationmindeed, before anti—typhoid
inoculation was practised, it was practically un—
known in any army.
(9) Q.w—Is MORPHIA an‘Anaesthetic?

A .———No; as Claude Bernard said, it merely causes a
vivisected animal to “lose the idea of self~
defence.” It is used'as an anaesthetic in vivi-
section, nevertheless. Sir Henry Morris, President
of the Royal College of Surgeons, told the Royal
Commission on Vivisection that “it is not an
anasthetic.” It does produce unconsciousness
if given in a very heavy dose, which is bound to.
kill the animal anyway; but the last thing the
vivisector desires is to lose his “living material, ”
and the dose that is heavy enough cannot easily
be given.

(10) Q.-—~Why not? .

A .—~The effect of large doses of morphia is to produce
excitement instead of stupefaction. It acts as
a “violent stimulant” (B‘.M.]., January 14,
1899). Professor Hobday, the veterinary sur—
geon, told the Royal Commission: “1 have -
never managed to poison more than one dog with
morphia in my whole life, and I have tried with
a large number” (16485, etc.).

(11) Q.—-——Do you approve of the MINISTRY OF
HEALTH P
A .———No,‘ it is an instrument for forcing doctors to

 

b’l

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

follow orthodox fashions, and for attempting to
coerce the public into being vaccinated and
inoculated. It was established on the plea of
economy. It was said that it would stop over-
lapping, which existed in the different depart—

. merits which preceded it . The ﬁrst year showed the
insincerity of this plea, for the number of ofﬁcials
increased enormously. \Vhereas in the original
departments 29 persons received £1,000 a year
and more, a year or two later there were 83 Of
these, besides 215 who had a bonus‘which raised
their salary to that amount. Ofﬁcialdom always
means tyranny ; the more ofﬁcials there are, the
worse the tyranny will be. Some HealthAdminis—
tration, of course, is necessary; but it should be
much simpler than the interested bureaucracy
which exists, and which is the catspaw of VlVl-
sectors and bacteriologists.

N. ~

, (I) Qs-«nWhy do not anti -vivisectionists write to
the NEWSPAPERS? .

A .-—~—Because practically the whole Press is in the
power of the great Vivisection Trust—ethat
is, the newspapers dare not offend such powerful
bodies as the organised Medical Profession, the
Hospitals and, last but not least, the Trade in
sera and vaccines. It is safe to say that any
newspaper which took‘up anti-vivisection would
soon have to close down; it would lose many
of its advertisements. In consequenceof this,
anti—vivisection letters and articles are rigidly

32

 

i
K




Hs'HLF/T'rb.

(0|me

.' .
\(

 

boycotted. EVIar'iy letters are sent to Editors,
but they never appear.

(2) Q .-——Are the newspapers inaccurate in their state -

(1) Q;

ments about Vivisectionist methods of treat -
' ing disease?

A .——Very often ; and corrections of absolute untruths

are not admitted. (See “Lies.”)

0.
——Was not the important operation of
OVARIOTOMY discovered through Vivi-
section? '

A.——Certainly not. It originated in America, but

the man who re-discovered and ﬁrst practised it

in this country was Dr. Charles Clay, of Man-

chester. Sir James Simpson, of chloroform fame,

hailed him as the discoverer of a new operation,

and advised him in the choice of its name. Dr. '
Clay stated in the Times of July 31, 1880: “I

have come to London from the North of England
expressly to bear my testimony in support of the

total abolition of Vivisection. As a surgeon, I
have performed a very large number of opera-
tions; but I do not owe a particle of my know—
ledge or skill to Vivisection. I challenge any
member of my profession to prove that Vivisection
has in any way advanced the science of medicine,
or tended to improve the treatment of disease.”
This testimony, among others, provides an
answer to those who ask what anti—Vivisectionists
have ever done to advance science or save human
life.

33

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

(4) Q

, .———Was not this operation of ovariotomy once

cited in the House of Lords by the Bishop of
Peterborough, as a fine example of the
value of experiments on animals?

.m—It was; the Bishop erroneously attributed the
discovery to Sir Spencer Wells, who, after learn—
ing the technique from Dr. Clay, became a
successful ovariotomist; but even Wells does
not give any support to the Bishop’s belief
that the operation was the result of an “ experi—
ment on a dozen rabbits.” In a word, the
Bishop’s statement was entirely untrue, yet it
is quoted to this day.

.———Did not Sir Almroth Wright, discover the
OPSONIC INDEX by Vivisection, and is not
this of service in diagnosing disease?

.——~—The Pharmacists”Dia7/y, issued by Burroughs &
Wellcome, states that the use of this method is
so difﬁcult that “ treatment is mostly carried out
without its aid, the clinical symptoms alone
being taken as a guide.” George Bernard Shaw,
who wittily criticised the use of a method which
could practically only be applied by its dis-
coverer, in the Doctor’s Dilemma, is thus
corroborated .

.-—-What OBJECT can the vivisectors have, if
their work is of no use?

A .-—~A man will do anything out of sheer curiosity,

when the desire to know becomes an obsession.
This is well expressed by Professor Slosson, a
vivisector of Wyoming University, who wrote
to the N ew York I ndependent in 1895: “ A human

34

r .92 W‘sr'na r-v— - ~




life is nothing compared with a new fact in science.
The aim of science is the advancement of human
knowledge at any sacriﬁce of human life.” How
much more easily, then, will animal life be sacri-
ﬁced, and how foolish appears the claim that the
Vivisector is always thinking of saving human
life!

(5) Q.——Surely, Professor Slosson does not speak
for all Vivisectors ?

A.———If the vivisectors became as powerful as they
would like to be, it is open to grave doubt
whether they would let anything, even human ,
life, stand in their way. But so far as animals
are concerned, most prominent vivisectors have
boldly confessed that they claim the right to
Vivisect them at will, quite apart from any
possible beneﬁt to humanity. Thus Cyon said,
“ the true vivisector must approach a Vivisection
with joyful excitement” and not as “a disagree—
able necessity”; Claude Bernard said that the
vivisector is “a man possessed and absorbed by
a scientiﬁc idea—he does not hear the animal’s
cries of pain, he is blind to the blood that ﬂows” ;
and Hermann, of Zurich, poured scorn on the
pretension that vivisection is pursued for the
beneﬁt of medicine and surgery, saying that this
excuse is only made “in Englanc.” “No true
investigator,” he said, “thinks of the practical
utilisation.” .

(6) Q.——Then is the lust for knowledge the only
object of Vivisection?

A.—~Not the only one; fame is an almost certain

 

35

 

 




reward of the vivisector, and money not in-
frequently; whereas the scientiﬁc man who
refuses consent to vivisection shuts the door of
advancement in his own face, and becomes a.
scientiﬁc pariah .

P.
.(1) Q.——~Do vivisected animals really suffer PAIN in
this country?
4 .«—~——Inspector Thane told the last Royal Commission
that in some cases “the injection is followed by
great pain and suffering.” ' Inspector Russell
said that “whatever would affect the appetite
or raise the temperature of an animal must be
held to give some degree of pain, or of uneasiness
amounting ofﬁcially to pain.” Animals without
appetite and with raised temperature are, of
- cOurse, always in the laboratories. '
(2) Q.—~——That would be in the case of injections;
but is the animal in pain during an operation,
when anaesthetics are used? .
.4 .~-Nobody can be certain. Col. Laurie, himself a
vivisector, declared before the Royal Com-
mission that he had seen two “anmsthetised”
animals “shivering with agony.” This was
naturally denied by the vivisector who performed
the operation upon them; but the fact that two
watching experimenters could interpret the dog’s
feelings so differently raises doubts, to say the
least. Laurie, who died in 1915, was specially
extolled for his “uprightness of character” by
Sir Lauder Brunton, another vivisector, in the

 

 

 

36

 




British; M cad/ital journal. “"‘xlaliance for the
Truth” was described as his chief characteristic.
Nothing could shake his evidence about those
two dogs, given with the utmost conviction,
although the vivisector (actually one of the
Commissioners!) was exonerated.

(3) Q.“—’Still, anaesthetics are used in operations?

A .—-—Yes; and many people, who have had operations
will Confess from experience that the anmsthetic
was worse than the operation. It is silly to talk
of anaesthetising an animal as if that disposed of
all question of discomfort or pain. Anaesthetics
are often followed by violent sickness in human
beings. To the animal, who does not understand,
the anaesthetic itself is probably often a form of
torture, or at the best a most unpleasant experi—
ence ; and when it awakes in a mutilated condi-
tion, the more acute pain, which it has to suffer
but cannot explain, supervenes. Regarding this
after-pain, Inspector Thane declared that

‘ “ animals experimented on under Certificate B do

~ suffer severely, while under observation after the

experiments.” In view of the Inspector’s known

sympathy with vivisection, these admissions are
important.

(4) Q .———Has not Professor Starling said that, in spite
of all the vivisections he has performed, he
has never seen pain inflicted?

A .——-Yes; but he has an uncanny knowledge about
pain, nevertheless. In his Elements of Human
Physiology, he refers more than once to “painful
stimulation of a sensory nerve” and says (page

37

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

249) that stimulation of the sensory nerves of

the heart produce “pain, as evidenced by the ,
movement of an animal not fully under the 1
inﬂuence of an anaesthetic.” ‘ l ‘

(5) Q."“"”DO the vivisectors recognise What is painful

(6) Q

or not, just as other people do?

A .~=—~No; at the ﬁrst Royal Commission, Professor
Pavy said that boiling an animal alive would not
be painful. - '

.——-—Has any present -day Vivisector frankly ad -
mitted pain? .

A .—-—»Y es; Professor Pembrey, who is licensed to
vivisect at Guy’s Hospital and London Univer-
sity, told the recent Royal Commission: “I Will i
be perfectly straightforward. I say that you ,
should not inﬂict pain if you can obtain the g

 

knowledge in any other .Way, but I say that even
where there is an operation, the pain is of a
protective nature. . . . The introduction of an
anaesthetic may produce complications. . . .
I admit that I have done painful experiments.”
He also said that “if one studies the question of
bleeding and transfusion it is impossible to give
an anaesthetic.” His whole claim, in brief, was
that operations ought to be performed upon
animals without the use of anaesthetics, as the
above quotations show; yet he afterwards .
(Malvem Gazette, August 25, 1911) actually
tried to get out of these admissions by the extra»
ordinary statement that “the experiments”
(with which he was dealing) “related to the
destruction of rats in plague ships!”

38

 




 

 

 

In trying to modify his evidence, after noting
its effect upon public opinion, he emulated
another vivisector, Dr. Klein, who told the ﬁrst
Royal Commission that “he had no regard at
all” for the sufferings of the animals, but after
wards, when correcting the proofs of his evidence,
made so many alterations that the Commissioners
could not accept them.

(7) Q .——Do you, then, regard Vivisectors as excep-
tionally cruel men. 9
A.——No; only as men whose sensibilities in one
direction have been blunted by custom. The
' potential vivisector exists in all of us. In every
age, and in every occupation, gross cruelties
have been condoned and encouraged, at which
future ages, and those untainted by the environ-
ment of the particular occupation, shudder and
stand amazed. Dr. Klein was probably quite
right when he said that there was only one
standard “among the physiologists” of all
countries, and that it was a different standard
from that prevailing among ordinary people.
Metchnikoff has observed that “the very large
majority of learned men feel no scruples in open-
ing the bodies and submitting animals to the
most cruel sufferings, with the object of throwing
light on some scientiﬁc problem.” (Les Ana/tales,
Paris, April, 1908.) It is quite unsafe to leave
any animal in the power of men who develop this
overpowering worship of mere knowledge, which
is deﬁnitely anti-religious andanti—moral. For
their own sake, vivisection should be prohibited.

 

39

 

 




(l) Q.-——Did not Pasteur cure RABIES in dogs?

A .——-Certainly not. He only claimed to have devised
a method of preventing it. This would involve
the inoculation of every healthy dog, an imprac—
ticable suggestion; nevertheless, it has been
made in certain States of America, for it would
bring much proﬁt to the ~manufacturers of the
vaccine and the ofﬁcials who would carry it out.
So far, the Vigorous protests of dog-lovers have
defeated the proposal, but at any time it may be

enforced by tyranny. There is no doubt that
many dogs” would be killed thereby, as such
fatalities have already occurred.

(2) ~Q.—-Is not atest necessary to discover Whether
a dog has rabies or not? ‘

A .———There is no reliable test. Certain bodies called
“negri bodies” may be found in the dogs’ brains,
and this has been used as a proof that the dogs
were rabid. But the late Dr. Stillman, a doctor
who ran a large Humane Society in America,
once devised a plot to test the “test” itself. He

. sent the head of a harmless little dog to Cornell
College, Albany, to be tested. The ofﬁcial pro—
nouncement was returned that it had died of rabies!
Dr. Stillman then offered to take charge of: every
living dog declared rabid by the Department of
Agriculture, to see whether any symptoms of

1 the disease appeared; the result of this offer

.3 1: ‘ Was that no more cases were reported!

l (l) Q.——Has not the ROCKEFELLER INSTITUTE

l

 

 

done much to further medical science?

40

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

A .—~—*That Institute and all its Offshoots have provided
‘ a hell for animals and fortunes for experimenters
without beneﬁting mankind in the least. Dr.
Flexner, the head of the Institute in New York,
receives £15,000 a year. The British Medical
journal itself has deplored the “striving after
sensationalism” produced by the hustling of the
Rockefeller investigators to make discoveries.
While poor old Mr. Rockefeller ’5 money is wasted in
this way, he himself employs an anti—vivisectionist
as his own doctor! (Dr. Hamilton Fisk Biggar.)
(2) Q.=—-—Were not certain affidavits made about
cruelty in the New York Institute, and did
not the Research Defence Society prove them

to be incorrect? .

A .m—These afﬁdavits were the sworn evidence of persons
who had been employed in the Institute. The
Research Defence Society sneered at the chief
witness, a Mrs. Kennedy, because she had been
“a scrub-woman.” That only made the more
remarkable her accurate knowledge of the interior
of a laboratory and the details of experiments,
which could only have been described by an eye-
witness. In fact, her evidence gave an exact
picture of the impression which an ignorant
lay person would derive from spectacles which a '
scientist would describe in different terms but
with the same revelation of animal suffering.
An allegation was also made that she was bribed
to tell her story. People do not willingly come
into the public eye as informers, and a recom—
pense given by those who need the information

 

 

 

~11

 

 




does not convert the information into a lie. For
that matter, witnesses at ordinary trials are paid. '
The allegation against the male Witnesses was
that they had been dismissed. Naturally they
felt freer to reveal the facts after they‘had left
the Institute. '

(3) (gym—How do the experimenters’ own. accounts
differ from those of these ignorant people
who reported P , .

A .m—Here is a sample. It is one of the difﬁculties of
anti-vivisection that the Vivisectors themselves
use so many technical terms that, although
their own reports condemn them,’ these reports
are not easily understood by the man in the street.
This is what Dr. Carrel says about ear-grafting
(his hobby being to exchange organs and

limbs). »
“ From a ﬁrst dog, the right part of the scalp and the
aur-icle were extirpated in one mass. . . On a second dog

the auricle and a portion of the scalp was extirpated
and the right part of the neck opened through a longi—
tudinal incision. . . . The new ear was ﬁxed. by
. circular suture of its cartilaginous canal to the cartilag—
inous canal of the host. . . . The cutaneous wounds
. united by first intention, but a voluminous abscess under
the scalp had to be drained eight days after the operation.
The animal had some chills and a secondary
abscess appeared in the left leg. The animal developed
a slow form of pyemia. . . . He ﬁnally died three
weeks after the operation.” . .
To the careful reader, this reveals a pitiful
history. But the superﬁcial would understand
more readily Mrs. Kennedy’s style of describing
things. This is what she swears to, in regard
to ear-grafting.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

(1)

"Dr. Carrel cuts out the ears of dogs. He has to out
way down into the neck in order to get out all of the car.
He grafts another ear on, going away down into the throat
to ﬁx it.. These dogs are put. back in theircages, and

.. one dog in his agony had torn off his bandages and torn
out the grafted ear and all with his paw, and next morn~
ing when found was bleeding terribly and died. . . .
The dogs after ear-grafting are so sick; they leave their
heads drop, you know. The dog’s eye would become
so swollen that it would close and the side of the face
and neck would become rotten . . . the new ear turned
purple and hard. ‘

,There is a great deal of this plain and Simple
description in the afﬁdavits, which tallies with a
doctor’s knowledge of what would happen after

. such operations as those performed by Dr_.Carrel.
No anti—vivisectionist from outside could possibly .
have suggested it to these poor. people, who des—
cribed What they had seen. In anti-Vivisection
shops, one often gets somewhat similar testimony
from people engaged in British laboratories, whose
livelihood depends upon their keeping silence.

Q.-—What is the RESEARCH DEFENCE
SOCIETY?

.A .——It wasfounded in 1908 to oppose the Anti-vivi-

section Movement, which it does by copious
abuse. It is chieﬂy distinguished by never
answering anything. It has consistently shirked
debate, and its chief representative has been
detected in offering an article to a newspaper-
(Tonbm’dge Free Press) with the express proviso
that a reply article was not to be accepted. It
publishes false information for which it never
apologises and which it never withdraws.

43

 

 

 

 

 

 




(2) lQ.-'-‘-4Give art-example of false information.

. Agw—LOne of its leaﬂets describes an outbreak of small-
, ' pox at’Ossett “ in, a school of 169 children living
under similar conditions.” It gives statistics
showing that the unvaccinated children chieﬂy
suffered. There was no such outbreak “in a.
school,” and the “similar conditions” described
did not exist. Only one case of smallpox was
discovered in the school, which Was closed on
the very day of its discovery. The outbreak was
in the town, and most of the sufferers had been
vaccinated. The leaﬂet of. the Research Defence
Society contains other errors concerning this
matter; the attention of the Society has been
' drawn to them in a correspondence in Twat/7v,
after which the leaﬂet was ’circulated more

than ever. ' -' ~

S

(1), (gs—~18 not Vivisection useful to SURGERY?

A .«wEverything useful in surgery has been learnt by
other methods. Many people ignorantly suppose
that every doctor has to practise upon an animal
before he dare try his hand upon the human
subject. There is so little necessity for this that
it is actually not allowed. One of the clauses

. in the Vivisection Act forbids the practice for
the purpose” of acquiring manipulative ’(or
manual) skill. The young surgeon learns, ﬁrst,
by the careful study of anatomy in dissecting the
dead human body; second, by watching his
seniors perform many operations, and then

 

 

44

 

 

 

 




 

 

nu

' 7 trying his hand at unimportant minor operations,
, ' gradually reaching the major ones.
i2)"Q.~But what about learning to perform new
' operations ?
‘ A .s—A' good answer was supplied by Sir Henry Morris
to the Royal Commission on Vivisection, 1906-10.
He was then President of the RoyalCollege of
Surgeons. He claimed to have been the ﬁrst '
inan to remove stone from the kidney, and he
said he had not learnt how to do this 'by experi-
ments on animals or anything, connected with
them, but by careful observation of the human
frame when he was performing operatiOns on the
liver and neighbouring organs, and by reasoning
therefrom. ‘
(3) Q.-—Is su1gery the same thing, performed upon .
’ animal or man? _

A .—~——No, because there are differences in the ﬂow of
the blood after cutting, in the power of the tissues
to retain ligatures, and so on. It was for this
reason that Sir Frederick Treves stated that his
experiments on the intestines of dogs had misled
him and rendered him “unfit to deal with the
human intestine.” It is impossible to compute
the number of human lives that must have been
lost through such misleadings. But, naturally,
few surgeons will confess it. Lawson Tait, a
convinced opponent of VivisectiOn, said that-
Vivisection had kept him back for 12 years in
perfecting a particular operation. “

(4) Q .—-—-What 18 the history of Surgery?
A .———Such operations as trephining the skull were

 

 

 

 

 

 




SW-r-u—vmmW—H.“V -, .. __ V , .. ,

' practised in the Stone Age. Surgery was very
advanced among the ancient Hindus,»who made
models to practise on. Hippocrates (400 3.0.)
was a great teacher of surgery. Vivisection
appears to have begun about 330 B.C. ‘in the
Alexandrian schools. Celsus vigorously con-
demned-it. Galen (130 A.D.) was a vivisector,
who was accused of using human beings as well

, as pigs. After the fall of .Rome, the darkness of
the Middle Ages put a stop to progress, but
human vivisection went on in the Italian schools.
Medicine and surgery revived with the emergence
of learning and culture after the Middle Ages.
Finally, a great school of vivisection arose in
France and Germany and spread to this country
in the middle of the 19th century, although at
ﬁrst the medical profession here, as shown by'
articles in the Lancet and British M radical Journal,
was utterly opposed to it. Had our medical
men continued to resist the new fashion, it is
likely that much greater progress would have been
made. Surgery advances by natural means.
Accidents are always occurring, and a great mass
of information is built up therefrom. Surgeons
do not need to create experimental conditions,
for they are always there.

gee—Can you prove your case by STATISTICS?
A .m—wBroadly, the success of a method or a remedy can
be gauged by the decline in the deathrate, per
million of the population, from the particular
disease. This is called Geaeml illoatality; the
,' ﬁgures are proVided by the Registrar-General.

 

46

 

 

 




\,r-+‘<: : 7'

m-HUIb—w

ho

FDHHLJ'U

 

 

There are, h0wever, certain fallacies to be looked
for, such as attributing to a treatment the result
of sanitation. This can be detected by Seeing
Whether other similar diseases have declined at
the same time, without the treatment. Changing
the name of a disease is another method of
confusing the statistics. But on the whole,
general mortality is a fairly safe guide.

There is another method of presenting statistics
which is so full of fallacies that it is an unsafe
guide altogether. This method consists of com—-
paring the number of deaths with the number of
cases, and is called Case Mortality. It is used
by the Metropolitan Asylums Board. “Cases”
are artiﬁcially increased by including those that
had no sign of the illness except a germ, and in
proportion to this artiﬁcial increase, the number
of deaths declines. Thus we ﬁnd that more
people are actually dying of a certain disease,
while the doctors who wish to boast of the effect

thereon of a certain remedy are able to point to

a decreased case—mortality. Hearing their
claims, the public wrongly imagine that the
disease is under control.

Another way in which statistics can be manip—
ulated is by dividing the sufferers into “classes”
according to age, vaccination, etc. It would be
as easy to get the result desired by dividing them
according to their different religions. There are
always other factors to be considered.

(1) Q.w—What has SANITATION done to banish

disease .9

47

 

 

 

 

 




- A .wlt has entirely rid this country of plague, cholera,

. typhus and smallpox as it used to be understood
(for the mild disorder now called _“smallpox”
has practically no death—rate) . All these diseases
used to scourge the country, different names,
such as “Black Death” or“Sweating Sickness,”
being given to some forms, probably of plague.
Single cases of any of these diseases may now and
then be introduced from abroad, but, with isola—
tion of the victim and care, they appear as mere
accidents and do not spread. All. the minor
fevers are likewise disappearing, but more slowly.
Perfect sanitation would put an end to them.
They were only Nature’s retribution for disregard
of her laws. ' ,

(2) Q.~——What effect had Sanitation in the War?

A .-———It was sanitary measures, and especially the ,
provision of a pure water supply, which reduced
the number of typhoid cases. Sir Malcolm
Morris, in one of the Chadwick Lectures delivered
just after the \Var, said that “in the main, the
armies on the Western Front in the late War
were preserved from the ravages of dysentery,
diarrhoea, typhoid, typhus and cholera by good
sanitation, carried out 011 Chadwick’s principle
of providing a wholesome environment.” It is
obviously absurd to pick out typhoid from the
allied diseases, and attribute the reduction in
that alone to inoculation.

(3) Q.—~—Who was responsible for the improved
Sanitation P
A.———Originally, Lord Roberts, who was so shocked

 

 

 

 

 

48

 

 

 




 

at the amount of fever in the Boer War, due to
defective sanitation, that he instituted a special
service of sanitary workers and attached them
to the military units. The difference between
the South African War and the European War in
regard to typhoid was entirely due to this
improvement . ‘

(1) Q.—-—Has not Vivisection produced an antidote to
SNAKE POISON?

A.———EXperimentsl are always being made with this
object, but even if a serum or vaccine were dis~
covered, its use would hardly be practical.
When a man is unexpectedly bitten by a snake,
What he wants is something simple and handy.
Such a remedy is permanganate of potash,
which is easily carried. Its value was discovered
by the innocent method of mixing it with the
venom outside the body, when it was found that
it destroyed the venom. A great drawback to
serum treatment is that a different kind of serum
is needed for each kind of snake, but permanganate
of potash appears to answer for all. ‘

(1) Q.—Was not SALVARSAN discovered by experi-
ments on animals, and has it not been very‘
valuable P

A .—Salvarsan, the German product, and its English
imitations, are very dangerous drugs. They
produce arsenical poisoning. Major Lane, a
well-known expert in syphilis, has condemned the
use of Kharsivan and the other English products
and has published a record of deaths from their
use. As to Salvarsan, its makers have been

 

 

 

49

 

 

 

 




 

attacked in the Prussian Diet (in 1917) on the

ground that it is a huge swindle, sold at an

enormous profit—“brutal usury”———while the

doctors had reported hundreds of deaths as due

- to it. The old—fashioned treatment by mercury is

much safer and almost universally adopted now.

(I) Q.——Did not experiments on animals help to get
rid of SLEEPING SICKNESS in Africa?

A.——Nothing was found to be efﬁcacious except the
removal of the natives from the swampy ground
where the disease ﬂourished, to other regions.
All that experiments on animals seem to have
done was to provide occupation for, seekers of a
supposed germ, and of these alleged causative
germs several have been found. The Royal Society
“confirmed” the discovery of one, acclaiming it
as the proved cause of the disease; but its reputa-
tion did not last long. After that, a trypanosome
was in fashion, and probably is now—but it
cannot be “proved” better than its predecessor
was. The numerous germs alleged to cause
diseases and afterwards discredited show how
unreliable experiments on animals must be.

(2) Q.——Is not Sleeping Sickness caused by the bite
of a fly?

A .——The claim has often been positively made, until
it was discovered that the disease existed in other
parts of the country where the particular ﬂy was
not to be found. ,In fact, the alleged “carrier”
has varied like the alleged germ. Some travellers,
like H. Savage Landor, attribute the disease to
something eaten or drunk. Dr. Kleine, Director

50

 

 




of the German Sleeping Sickness Commission in
East Africa, after experimentally “proving”
that the parasite of sleeping sickness went through
a cycle of development in the tsetse ﬂy, came to
the ultimate conclusion “that the tsetse ﬂy does
not convey sleeping sickness as is generally

supposed.” Clearly, then, dogmatism is impos—
sible on the matter

(1) QE—What IS a SERUM?

A .~—A serum is part of the blood of a poisoned animal.
The animal usually selected is a horse, but
donkeys, mules, buffaloes. and other large animals
are also used. Products of disease, usually

1» germs, are injected repeatedly into the animal,

causing feverishness, swellings, etc. After an
interval the blood is drawn off—about 16 pints

at a timemand the clear ﬂuid which rises to the
top is the serum. V

 

 

 

T.
(1) Q.-~Was not TYPHOID practically eliminated
during the Great War by inoculation?

A .-——-The good sanitation on the Western Front
banished not only typhoid, but other diseases
against which there was no inoculation. In
Gallipoli, Mesopotamia, and other centres of the
war, there was a terrible toll of sickness. It is a
matter of comparative unimportance that it was
labelled by other names; the men suffered just

' the same.
(2) Q .--What names were used to disguise typhoid?

A .~—-—Chieﬁy paratyybhoid, which is exactly the same

51

 

 




 

 

as typhoid. The only pretence of a distinguishing
feature is a slight difference in a germ. Some-
times the cases were called dysentery. But
that the symptoms were indistinguishable from
typhoid may be gauged by the fact that a well-
known bacteriologist, F leet-Surgeon Bassett
. Smith, told the Royal Society of Medicine on
November 23, 1915, that “he had come to the
conclusion that all cases from the Near East
labelled as dysentery should be regarded as
probably examples of typhoid fever.”
(3) Q.—-But is it not said that paratyphoid is much
milder than typhoid?

4 .—~—It has a death—rate. That contra-indicates
“ mildness . ” The official ﬁgures given on N ovem—
ber 7, 1917, showed 184 deaths from typhoid and
48 from paratyphoid. ’ The strange thing is that
39 of these 48 men had been inoculated, although
only 62 of the 184 were said to be so. The
object seems to have been to show how many
uninoculated men died of typhoid; but the ﬁgures
incidentally showed that the inoculated were put
into the “ paratyphoid” list. They died also, and
39 out of 48 is a much worse proportion than 62
out of 184. (The actual equivalent should be
16, not 39.)

(4) Q.—-Do you attach value to these figures?

.4 .——No; I merely copy our opponents’ method of
argument and show that it “cuts both ways.”
The statistics of the war are absolutely unre-
liable. The usual fatality from typhoid in the
civil population is about 14 per cent. Before

52

 




. \v ,.... (‘F I :5 '

 

inoculation was begun in‘our Army, 3when all
., the men were uninoculat‘ed», that average was
‘ . [slightly lower-12 per cent. among the ﬁrst 600
cases. Later, when it was desired to show the
value of inoculation, it was said that 6 per cent.
were'inoculated as» against 20 per cent. un—
inoculated. Obviously, the classes had been
mixed to create this difference, otherwise the
uninoculated death—rate would have remained

. the same. '
(5) Q.—-—Can you quote anything about this playing

4 - with statistics, beyond inference? '
A .———Yes; Doctors Upjohn and Martin confessed that,
' having 325 typhoid cases to classify in 1917,
they “regarded those who had been, inoculated
with suspicion,” and managed to cast out 300 r
of them, only leaving 25 as admitted typhOid
cases. Other Army doctors, like Lt.-Col.
Donegan, C.B., have confessed that they were
told by their superiors to classify inoculated
typhoid cases as something else,_ and that they‘

did. so. i

, (6) Q.--——~Have you actual evidence of the failure of
antityphoid inoculation, beyond the broad fact
that some inoculated men did die of typhoid?
A .—-—Dr. 'Besredka, of the Pasteur Institute, wishing
'to substitute swallowing vaccine for inoculating
it, had no reason to suppress the faCts concerning
the usual method. He stated: “ Of 102 patients
showing typhoid bacilli in the blood, 23 had not
been vaccinated, 38 had been insufﬁciently
vaccinated (1, 2 or 3 times), and 41 had received ‘

 

 
  
  
  
  
 
  

 

 




at least four vaccinating injections.” So that the
more these men were inoculated the more typhoid .
they got, judging typhoid in the orthodox way,
by the germ. »

(7) Q.—Any other instances?

A .——-The civil population of Germany were inoculated
by British Order during the British occupation.
The British M edical journal (December 18,
1920), showed that typhoid deaths occurred,
with a mortality of 157 per cent., or higher than
usual, and added: “It is regrettable that the
incidence and mortality amongst the inoculated ‘
were so high.” Mrs. Stobart tells in her book,
“The Flaming Sword,” how typhoid broke out
in her hospital unit in Serbia, although every
member had been inoculated before leaving
England, only two months before. Seventeen were

. attacked, and three, including Mrs. Dearmer, died.
(8) Q.——Was inoculation successful in the other
Armies? ‘ '

A .~«It.was the same tale everywhere. The American
and Canadian soldiers were forced to be inoculated
over and over again , yet during the Chateau Th ierry
offensive, “typhoid and the typhoidal diseases”
are admitted by the Chief Surgeon of the Ameri—
can Expeditionary Force to have prevailed among
75 per cent. of the troops. Ninety—ﬁve Ameri—
can soldiers, allfully inoculated,developed typhoid
fever in a rest camp in England in July, 1918, and
it was described at a meeting of the-Royal Society
of Medicine as “severe, high-grade typhOid.”

As to France and Germany, both insisted on

 

 

 

 

o4

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

inoculation. Its compulsory nature in the
German Army was stated as a fact in the Times
of February 3, 1915, while the Lancet of the
previous year (December 19,1914), informed
us that‘ ‘antityphoid vaccination had been com—
pulsory throughout the French Army since last
March’? (15.6., before the war). No doubt was
expressed during the war of the complete vaccina—
tion of these other European armies, but as they
got typhoid, a different story has occasionally
been told since. The contemporary records are
very signiﬁcant.
(9) Q. —Is Typhoid caused by the typhoid germ?

A .——Many eminent doctors have described the germ
as a harmless bacillus existing in normal fecal
matter. It changes its form according to the
conditions, and is then called by the different
names given to “paratyphoid.” It is just an
ordinary inhabitant of the intestines. Drinking
ﬁlth causes typhoid in the majority of cases.

(1) Q .—Was not TETANUS conquered in the Army
by inoculation?

A .—The only way to prevent tetanus developing from a
dirty wound which has infected the nerve— endings
is to wash it clean. There were a good many tetanus
cases at the beginning of the war because the
wounded were not quickly reached. As the
R. A. M. C. became more experienced and effective, '

' the men were in hospital with wounds washed with—
in a few hours, and tetanus consequently declined
The same thing happened throughout the war.
Whenever there was a retreat, and the men

 

 

 

55

 

 




Were left out in the open with their wounds
unwashed, the tetanus death-rate rose.
(2) ‘ Q..-—Was there less mortality from tetanus than
’ in other wars?

A .—-No ; the proportion was about the same as in the
Franco-Prussian War. There was only a
ﬁctitious fall in the case-deathrate, as with
diphtheria antitoxin, by the method of putting
in “cases” which were not cases at all. An order
was issued in 1916 that every man who had a
tremor in his wounded limb should be put down
as a case of “local, tetanus.” Of theSe cases
none died, but the new diagnosis greatly
increased the cases, and the deaths dropped
proportionately.

(3) Q.-—Are there definite instances of the failure of
this inoculation? ,

A .——The War Ofﬁce issued a memorandum in July,
1917, showing that out of 36 cases of tetanus,
that had received a preventive dose of the serum
within 24 hours, 28 died. But perhaps the most
amusing evidence of failure is to be found in the
book called “A Regimental Surgeon in War and
Prison,” by Capt. R. V. Dolbey, R.A.M.C.
Describing the conditions of imprisonment in
Germany he writes, “Our men, alone of all the
wounded, received no tetanus antitoxin to pro-
tect them. Yet they suffered far less from this
‘ terror than either German or French.”

(4) Q.——-Is Tetanus caused by a particular germ?

A.——-—Dr. Leonard Hill says that the tetanus germ,
when washed clean, is harmless.—

56

 

 

 




 

 

(1) Q .m-Is not TUBERCULiN good for consumption?
A .-——Over a score of tuberculins have been claimed as

cures o'r preventives. They all fail. . Koch was ‘

the ﬁrst to make the claim in 1882. His tuber»
culin was admittedly a disastrous failure.
Similar claims are continually being made up
to the present day, with all the resources of Press
advertisement. One of the latest is the serum
of Spahlinger, consisting of 22 different germs
passed through the bodies of horses. A contem-
porary- claim was made by Dreyer, but it
did not stand long. The multiplicity ‘of the
inoculations alone is enough to discredit
them. Perhaps inoculation for consumption,
of. all diseases, has the smallest number of
medical supporters. The particular brand in
fashion is frequently denounced at medical
meetings.
(2) Q.—How is tuberculosis to be fought?

A.———Purely by sanitation. It had declined by 50
per cent. before the tubercle bacillus was even
discovered. So we know the way. -

(3) Q.——-Is it caused by the tubercle bacillus?

A .———That idea has been taught, but in View of the
fact that the bacillus as a rule does, not show
itself until the disease has progressed some
months, it is absurd. .Moreover, Sir Douglas
Powell declares that the bacillus is “deﬁnitely
more contagious when mixed with streptococci
and other organisms” (Royal Commission

Report, page 32),.which does not say much for »

its speciﬁc character.

 




_(4) Q.»—’«Is tuberculosis acquired by drinking cow"s
milk?

A.»—Nobody wants to drink the milk of a sick
animal, butwe can drink with impunity the milk
of a cow that {harbours the tubercle bacillus.
This has often been. proved.* The fact is, cows
that harbour the bacillus are as a rule healthy.

(5‘) Q.—Is not tuberculin useful as a cattle test?

A.—~Enlightened farmers deny this. Indeed, the Q
test was declared misleading by the French
Ministry of Medicine in October, 1922, in a
special Report issued by the request of the French
Government. And the Minister of Public Works
(Dr. Sutherland) told the Legislature of British
Columbia at the end of 1924, “the tuberculin
test has been a failure . . . We have been
slaughtering thousands of animals which were
perfectly safe milk producers and passing over
others that are a real menace.”

( l) Q‘.—-Who‘was LAWSON TAIT?

' A .—Probably the greatest surgeon of the nineteenth
century, and an Anti—Vivisectionist. He stated
that Vivisection (which he had practised) had
only led him astray. He'also opposed Lister’s
antiseptic treatment at a time when the whole
medical world had accepted it. All surgeons
now recognise that he was right. He was'the
pioneer of aseptic as opposed to antiseptic treat—

' ment. The N ew York [Medical journal, June 17,
1899 (and other medical papers of that time)

* See the British Union ’s publication, ”Tuberculosis and Cow ’s
Milk.”

 

58

 

 

 




 

commented on his ﬁght against Listerism, show—
ing that when he used Lister’s carbolic spray he
had 19deaths out of 50 ovariotomy cases, but as
soon as he gave it up he hadonly 3 out of '50;
and later, he did 1139 consecutive ovariotomies
Without a single death. “This remarkable

‘ record,” said the journal of the American Medical

Association “was offered as a rotest a ainst
. O ,
Listerism .”

(2) Q.—-—But did he not once say that, while he was

(1)

(1) Q

opposed to Vivisection as an aid to surgery,
he thought experiments on. animals useful in
regard to bacteriology?

A .—-Our opponents have most unscrupulously made,

use of a suggestion of this kind which. Lawson
Tait made at a medical meeting in 1882. They
ignore the fact that further examination of the
question caused him entirely to alter this opinion.
In 1889, shortly before his death, he declared that
experiments on animals had, “as in the cases of
Koch, Pasteur and Lister, covered the profession
with ridicule,” and he moved a resolution for the
abolition of every kind of experimentation on
animals.

Q.—-What is TOXIN -ANTITOXINP

A .—v-Diphtheria antitoxin mixed with the toxin, or

alleged poison, of the disease. Itis injected into
people as a supposed preventive of diphtheria.

V.r

.—-—What is a VACCINE?
A .~—~A culture of germs, either dead or alive, or of the V

59

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

liquid in which they have been grown. A,
vaccine is not, like a serum or antitoxin, taken
from an animal, but may be taken from the
patient ’5 own body. But vaccines have all been
obtained originally through animal experimenta—
tion. . .

(2) Q.——Do you oppose Vaccines on that ground?

A .~Partly; but also because inoculation is an
unnatural way of dealing with disease, and a
very dangerous fashion. Those who recommend

‘ it have a totally perverted idea of health.
(3) Q.——-In what way?

.4 .———It is the duty of a health authority to provide
a healthy environmentnot to create an artiﬁcial
state within the bodies of the people. Inoculation
with vaccines (as also with some antitoxins) is
chieﬂy used for “prevention.” The idea is, by
a direct assault on the blood, to create a condi-
tion in the body which counteracts typhoid,
diphtheria, colds, etc. The true path to health
is to keep the body pure by pure living, and to
create such outside conditions as will assist.

(4) Q.-«—Is preventive medicine then of 'no avail?

4 .r——]lledz'cz'm is for the sick, not'for the well. The
very words “preventive medicine” are absurd.
“Preventive conditions” should be sought.

(5) Q .—~D0 modern doctors really suggest inoculation
against all diseases? _ -

A .«First they insist on vaccination against smallpox.

. They have also introduced the Schick test for
everybody, under the fallacious idea that they
can. thereby discover those likely to ‘take

6.0.

 




 

 

diphtheria; they then proceed to inoculate these
with toxin—antitoxin. That campaign being
fairly advanced, they have now gone on to the

, “Dick test” for scarlet fever. It is obvious that

they are gradually working up. to the time when
artiﬁcial immunisation against mumps, measles,
chicken—pox, inﬂuenza and every other zymotic
will follow. The absurdity of spending one’s
whole life in being unnaturally “protected”
against diseases with which one may never come
in contact should be clear to everybody with a
spark of commonsense. The danger of having these

, things forced upon school children is very urgent.

We are getting rid of z 7motic diseases without
these fads. They waited until scarlet fever had
declined from 719 deaths per million (1871—80) to
32 (1916-20), and then they began to consider the
advisability of artiﬁcial immunisation against
a rapidly and steadily vanishing disease. The
continuation of the decline would, of course,
be attributed to the new method!

(6) Q.——-Are not vaccines used as treatment when a

person is ill?

A .*Certainly. Although we do not believe in

vaccines, we recognise that to use them as treat-
ment is more sensible in its aim than to use them ‘
as preventives. But their failure is much more
marked than their alleged successes. For every
person you meet who tells you of an experience
that a tendency to catch cold has been cured by a
vaccine, you may meet two others who testify
to having had severe colds after the treatment.

61

 

 

 

 




(7) Q.~——But are not the doctors practically unani-
mous in recommending vaccines?
~A .=~Sir Watson Cheyne has expressed great doubt of
them, calling them “ very broken reeds” (Lancet,
February 27, 1915) and Sir Thomas Horder
has admitted that “much of the increase in the
bulk of vaccine therapy” is due to “the forcing
of the doctor’s hand by the patient” (because
“inoculation is fashionable~-it has caught on
with the public”) and to “a natural desire not
to be left behind,” rather than to “honest con-
viction” of the doctors (Royal Soc. of Med.,
January 27, 1914). Some cases may improve
after any treatment; all through medical history
this has been so, however wrong and foolish the
treatment. Those patients would have got well
in any case. .
(1) Q.—What has VACCINATION to do with
Vivisection P
A .—»-VacCine lymph is obtained by a very cruel
process. A calf is strapped on a table, and as many
as 120 cuts are made in its abdomen. Into these
cuts, matter taken from some unknown source (for
its origin cannot now be traced) is rubbed. After
eight days, during which the calf is fastened
up' so that it cannot lick or rub the seat of
irritation, iron clamps are used to squeeze out
the 'matter from the hundred odd sores. This,
mixed with glycerine, is the calf lymph inserted
into the human body.
(2) Q.—-—-—Has not Vaccination got; rid of smallpox?
' A. .——Smallpox was very prevalent inthe days before

62

 

 




 

sanitation. So were typhus, plague and cholera.
With the passing of the Health Ads in 1875
and onwards, conditions improved so much in
this country that those old scourges became no
longer possible. Vaccination was made com-
‘pulsory in 1854. The strictest Act enforcing it
was passed in 1867. In 1871-2 there was a
smallpox epidemic which. caused the death of
44,000 persons. Since the Conscience Clause
enabled people to save their children from
vaccination, the smallpox deaths have been
negligible. Brieﬂy put, the facts are these:
.(1) Smallpox was serious before vaccination, but so
were other diseases which have been conquered
without vaccination: (2) after vaccination,
the greatest number of smallpox deaths oc--
curred at the time when there were most
vaccinations . -

(3) Q.——But, taking children only, is not the vac-
cinated child safer against smallpox than
the unvaccinated?

A.—-No. In 1871-73, there were 14,929 smallpox
Wdeaths among children under 5 years of age.
At that time over 90 per cent. were admittedly
vaccinated: that is, every child was vaccinated,
unless unﬁt and exempted by the doctor’s orders.
Vaccination was compulsory, and there was no
Conscience Clause. . But even if the claim in
regard to children were true, what does it matter
which of two classes—«children or adults—is
more liable to smallpox deaths, seeing that there
is now practically no mortality at all ?'

 

 

 

'63

 




 

 

-. . . a . W"wd-t-~v—r .. . . 7 7 77V , V=VA;V__ V 77 ‘ «AW,

" —“'___..._’__.~.- . ____.._

(4) Q.~wls not Smallpox now increasing, as the

- ' result of a neglect of vaccination?

A .===~A mild, eruptive disorder, not in the least like
the old~fashioned smallpox, prevails where there
is great overcrowding, but it is nothing to be
alarmed about. Inﬂuenza, measles and diph-
theria cause thousands of deaths each year; scarlet
fever still causes hundreds; but the smallpox
'deaths vary from one to .28 the latter number

 

being a" remarkably high one for recent years. .

Out of millions of people, this number is start-
lingly small. The deaths either directly caused
by, Or associated with vaccination, are very
much higher.

(5) Q.~——It is said that Smallpox used to be a disease
of childhood, but isnow a disease of adult
life. Can you explain this?

.A.—~—When sanitation was unknown, epidemics were
-w0nt to carry off the young children. \Vith
- improved sanitation, the weaklings amongst the

children were enabled to grow up. We thus got
an adult race recruited by weaklings, who in
their turn were “picked off” when an epidemic
came. The longer the period between epidemics,
the larger was the ever—growing population of adult
weaklings (27.6., those of several generations);
Whereas the children under ﬁve were only of
one generation. With time, however, the con—
ditions ever improving, a hardier race grows up
and things become more equalised. This is the
‘ best explanation that can be offered; but in
some countries the age-incidence has shown

64

 

I
i-L‘




 

strange variations, according to local circum-
stances. The reduction of smallpox deaths
among .the children cannot be explained by their
vaccination, since considerably less than half
are vaccinated.

(6) Q.——What about Germany, Japan, the Philip-

' pines, and all the far ends of the earth?

A .———Apply for literature, in which you will ﬁnd all
these countries dealt with. None of them supply
any argument for vaccination, but the exact
opposite. Do not, however, seek to draw a
moral from a country which has no Registrar-~
General’s statistics which can be checked. If
vaccination is good, we should be able to make
out a case for it in our own country .‘

. w_ .
(1) Q.-—What is the WASSERMANN TEST, used to
detect the presence 0f Syphilis?

A .-~——The liver of a human syphilitic embryo is dis-
solved in water or alcohol. The serum of a
guinea-pig’s blood is added; then a preparation '
of the blood of a rabbit into whose system the
blood of a sheep has been injected. When this
witches’ brew is complete, the blood of the
patient is drawn and mixed with it, and it is
claimed that if syphilis is present, a clumping
of the germs (agglutination) will take place..

(2) Q.r——-Is this test reliable? ,

A .~~~—No. Dr. H. Wansey Bayly wrote in the Medical
Ofﬁcer of August 14, 1920: “This test is not
pathognomonic of syphilis, and is often contra—

 

 




dictory, different results being obtained at
different laboratories, and on different occasions
at the same laboratory, without any intervening
treatment.”

(3) Q.——Can you give an instance of this occurring?

A .———The British Medical journal of April 13, 1918,
quoted Dr. J. S..Robertson, late house—surgeon
of the London Lock Hospital, who gave more
than one instance. He tells of a lady whose
blood was sent in two different tubes and under
different names to a well-known‘hospital. The
tests were made by the same man on the same day;
the report was in one» case negative and in the
other positive. The scandal connected with this
test consists in the fact that it may lead to
suspicion of immorality falling upon a perfectly
innocent persOn. The reaction is obtained after
scarlet fever and many other affections, as well
as in syphilis.

(1) Q.———What is WIDAL’S TEST P’

A .—-—That is a similar test, used to detect typhoid. .
But it is now given up. Bosanquet and Eyre, in
their well-known textbook, Vaccines and Toxins,
say that “a certain number of undoubted cases of
enteric fever fail to give the reaction at all,”
and they add that “ Fatal cases are from time to
time encountered which never showed any power
of agglutination, but which present 150315 inortein
the characteristic lesions of the disease. On the
other hand, cases which are not enteric may
possess a comparatively high agglutinative
power.”

66

 

 




 

 

(1) Q.——Does not vivisectionw'help our surgeons in
the'treatment of WOUNDS? ,

A .—The open—air treatment seems the best for wounds.
Florence Nightingale had experience of this,
which she related in a letter to the Crown Princess
of Prussia in 1866. But Lister’s antiseptic dress—
ings drove her common-sense methods out of the
ﬁeld, and 50 years later, during the Great War, the
discovery was made anew by the surgeons. This is
an instance of Vivisectionist teaching keeping back
the advance of surgery.

(1) Q.—Did not Dr. GEORGE WILSON say some
. 4 pointed things about vivisection?

A .——-This distinguished doctor, who was Medical
Ofﬁcer of Health for Mid-VVarwick, confessed the
cruelty of inoculations so long ago as in 1.892, at
a meeting of the British Medical Association.
He said :~—- , '

“I have not allied myself with the anti—vivisec-
tionists, but I accuse my profession of misleading
the public as to the cruelties and horrors which are
perpetrated on animal life. When it. is said
that the actual pain involved in these experiments
is commonly of the most triﬂing description,
there is a suppressio '067’1: of the most palpable
kind, Which could only be accounted for at the
time by ignorance of the actual facts. I admit
that in the mere operation of injecting a virus,
whether cultivated or not, there may be little
or no pain, but the cruelty does not lie in-the
operation itself which is permitted to be per«
formed without anaesthetics, but in the after

(-37

_.-~....,

 

 

 

 

 




 

effects .. Whether so-called toxins are injected
under the skin, into the peritoneum, into the
cranium under the dura' mater, into the pleural
cavity, into the veins, eyes or other organs—-

’ and all these methods are ruthlessly practised
w—there is the long-drawn-out agony. The
animal so innocently operated on may have to
live days, weeks or months, with'no anmsthetic
to assuage its sufferings, and nothing but death
to relieve.” .

(2) Q.—-Does that statement apply to to day? .

A .mCertainly. The Reports of the Medical Research
Council give examples of these inoculation
tortures, which are continuously going on, and
the public pays for their performance. For
instance, in Special Report Series No. 91,
published in 1925 (price 3s. 6d. from His
[Majesty’s Stationery Ofﬁce), we have a number
ofexamples, showing how rabbits, guinea-pigs
and kittens were» inoculated or fed with germs
and died of blood poisoning from six to eighteen
days later. The experimenters admit that they

looked “ very ill.” This method of killing animals
by slow degrees can only be described as
torture.

(3) Q-.——-—Was not Dr. Wilson placed on'the last Royal

' Commission P '_

, A'.-——Y es; and he disagreed so much with the Report
of the others (no openly anti-vivisectionist doctor
was placed on the Commission, although actual
viviseczors were placed on it, so its conclusions
were never in any doubt) that he erte a long

68

 

 




 

 

 

additional Report of his own. In that, he stated
that he had been much more impressed with the
fallacies and failures which had been revealed
than with the alleged successful results; he
deplored the prominence given to vivisectionist
teaching and the awards attaching to research
scholarships, which led students to neglect and
discount the value of Work at the bedside, and he
pointed out that “the distinguished physician,
with his unrivalled clinical experience, and his
intimate knowledge of disease, is being gradually
ousted from the treatment of cases for which
vaccine therapy is deemed essential, by the
bacteriologist, who has little or no experience
of disease except what he can induce in
animals.” . ' -

Sir James Mackenzie was evidently of the
same opinion as Dr. Wilson; he declared
(Times, September 8, 1921), that the future of
medical research lay chieﬂy with the general
practitioner .

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Y

(1) Q.-—-Has not YELLOW FEVER been conquered
by experiments on animals?

A.-——Sir William Osler told the Royal Commission .
”that the discovery of the conveyance of yellow
fever by mosquitoes was not due to experiments
on animals (Q.16697-700). Apes are the only
animals that can be infected with yellow fever,
and there were no apes in the districts

affected .
69

 




Am; A. 4",.” Li. ' ‘ - “mtww—r-.,rvr

(2), Q.——But did not Mr. Stephen Paget quote remark -
able instances of the triumph of a yellow fever
serum, in his book “Experiments on
Animals”? .

A .———He did; he described how it had suddenly
checked the fever, which was raging in a certain
prison, and caused an absolute stoppage of the ,
cases, although the fever continued to rage .
outside the prison. Unfortunately, this serum
was produced through a germ which was after-
wards discredited, so Mr. Paget, in the next
edition of his book, withdrew the story. One
wonders why, if it were true! The scientiﬁc
discovery that a serum made from the wrong germ L
will work wonders is surely of value?

(3) (2 .-—Had Sir William Osler anything to' say to the.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Royal Commission about this?
A .——~Yes. He said, “I do not think anybody places
much reliance .on that.” He was then asked: P

“Then if the bacillus of Sanarelli stood in no
relation to the cause of yellow fever, I apprehend
that this argument of a protective serum falls
to the ground?”{ He replied “Entirely. I
think it is not used at all” (Q. 16615).

Z.
(1) Q.——-What conquers ZYMOTIC Diseases? .
A~.-—~Sanitation alone. It will be found that all the
zymotic diséases-~that is, fevers of an epidemic
naturei—are on the decrease in civilised countries,
although most of them are treated without
inoculation. The worst have been banished

7O

 

 




 

altogether. On the other hand, diseases like
cancer, diabetes, syphilis, and nervous disorders,
which are not of the zymotic order, and for which
vivisection is carried on extensively, have either
remained stationary or shown a tendency to
increase. I
(1) Q.——As an aid to ZOOLOGY, and to treat animals’
diseases, do you not approve of vivisection? .

- .The animals themselves here stand to
benefit.

A .———Nothing but hopeless sentimentality and lack of
logic could lead to such a question. We anti—
vivisectionists are not inspired only by love of
animals; We do not prefer animals to human
beings; and it makes no difference to us Whether
the creatures supposed to beneﬁt by this cruel
practice are animal or human. We say that
long-drawn-out suffering ought not to be in—
ﬂicted on oue for the beneﬁt of another. If to
torture a dog on the problematical chance of
saving a human life is, as we claim, morally
wrong, although the human being is of a higher
order than the dog, it. must clearly, if the question
of comparative values comes in at all, be even
worse to torture one animal for the possible
beneﬁt of another which is not of a higher
development. justice is due to ‘the individual;
it is the individual that suﬂers. No cruelty can
be made justiﬁable by sophistry, and as Cicero
said, “No cruelty is useful.”

71

 




Publications of the British Union.

PAMPHLE TS BY DR. HADVVEN , on Smallpox,
Diphtheria, Tuberculosis, i Plague, Typhoid, Vaccines
and Sera, Sanitation and Disease, Pasteur and Pasteurism,
Lessons from the Registrar-Generals Statistics, etc.

0

SAMPLES SENT TO INQUIRERS.

 

 

m . 77 W , -7 7,- ___‘.__.__l HM__._.

 

THE BRITISH UNION FOR
ABOLITION 0F VIVISECTION

(British Anti-vivisection Society)

IS THE LARGEST SOCIETY OF ITS KIND IN THE WORLD.

.Z’residant - WALTER R. HADWEN, M.D., ].P.
Secretary — - MISS BEATRICE E. KIDD,

‘ Terms of Membership:
LIFE MEMBERS, £5. ASSOCIATES, 5/~.
ANNUAL MEMBERS, 10/- and upwards.
I Monthly Organ, The Abolitiom’st, 2/6 a year, post free.

Address: 32, CHARING CROSS, LONDON, S.W.l.

 

Printed by Deverell, Gibson & Hoare, Ltd.. Bromley Buildings, Bread Street Hill E.C.4.

 

 

 




 

 




 

 




