' I 3333331019101 131031919:91010101916161.3333} 1910191929?

01:}
>
.g
p
>
>
b
v
>
r

V
A.
V v

9

9101910
{6101

AI
3'

A.

.v

V
A’A
V V

v
9

0
v

V
A

9..

0

Progress and Freedom
in Medicine

:9":
6V

A
v
)A

(9103:.
9.9192 “'9:

A

010191019:
0319:! "

v
A

.0
91

Report of Addresses at a Conference
held at 15, St. IameS’s Place, London,
on April 12th, 1935

W
n:

A

v
V
9..

O
.A

A
V

.9'
I.

A.

9193:"
VOA 21031919"

9.

t’:
V4
9 o
’9‘ ’
H
o
}‘

Miss Lind-af-Hageby, Mr. Ellis Barker,

Mr. B. St. John Doherty, D.O. Mr. Frank Hawken,

Mr. E. L. Macnaghten, D.O. Dr. Beddow Bayly,

Miss L. Loat, Mr. W. H. Webb,
The Duchess of Hamilton.

019:

O

A

'9

v
A

D

.0319.
16101919

Io

3:919:91."
91610:.

‘v
A

.7

V
A

O

19:93:
A '10

919'

A

IOVOIOIO
.v

A9

Irmed by
The Animal Defence and Anti-Vivisection Society
(Public Health Questions Section)

15, ST. JAMES’S PLACE, ST. JAMES’S ST., LONDON, SW1.
and at 4, Cour St. Pierre, Geneva, Switzerland.

1031619"
19191010101010:

A.

O

V
A

1919
y

6
O

V
V
A

V
A0;
A

:0
'9'.

Prerz'dem : H072. Director:
THE DUCHESS OF HAMILTON. MISS LIND-AF-HAGEBY.
Secretary: MISS L. K. SCHARTAU.

AO'O'OIQIO
:4» 9103‘

A
V
A

O

1.937.

A
v
A

N'
h

or»: 319201.32: : 1932331919191926:69:921032191931019223322219101910:0

 




If.“ , '

 
 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

PROGRESS AND FREEDOM
IN MEDICINE

The Discussion was held with special reference to the
“Registration and Regulation of Osteopaths Bill,” then
before a Select Committee of the House of Lords. The
subjects under consideration were: Are Progressive
Registration and Legal Authorisation the best means of
achieving Reform .7 ; Compulsion in methods of Treatment
and Prevention; The failure of Vaccination and
Inoculation; The lack of Dietetic Education; Dangers
of State Medicine based on prevailing fashions in Orthodox
Medicine; Who and What is the " Quack ” .7; How can
the principles of Nature Cure, Osteopathy, Herbalism,
Psychic and Spiritual Healing, etc., best be advanced?
Amongst the Societies represented were: The Natural
Healers' Defence Union, The National Association of
Medical Herbalists, The Nature Cure Association of Great
Britain and Ireland, The National AntirVaccination
League, The Marylebone Spiritualist Association, The
Healthy Life Society of Manchester, The Homoeopathic
Publishing Company, The London Vegetarian Society,
The British Federation of Natural Therapeutics, The
Animal Defence and Anti’Vivisection Society. The Chair
was taken by Miss Lind’af’Hageby.

MISS LIND’AF’HAGEBY: We have called this
Conference to discuss a subject of very great
importance at the present time, the subject of
medical freedom. We represent here a
Society of people who have been interested
in this subject for the last 25 years. Now, what
do we mean by medical freedom? I give you my
own interpretation; you may have a different one——
the right to choose your doctor ; the right to choose
your treatment; the right to do without a doctor;
the right to resist the fashions of orthodox and
prevailing Medicine; the right to die without your
body being subjected to an inquest and your
relatives and friends being charged with neglect or
manslaughter. Resistance may mean opposition——
with consequences—to State Medicine.

3

 




 

 

The subject is now of special importance because
of a Bill which will be introduced in the House of
Commons. It is known as the Medicines and
Surgical Appliances (Advertisement) Bill, and is
prepared by the Parliamentary Committee on Food
and Health. It is sponsored by the British Medical
Association, and I would like to read to you a
critical explanation of that Bill.

“ It is an attempt by the medical authorities to prohibit
anybody who is not a registered practitioner from oifering
diagnosis and treatment to the public. A nonrregistered
practitioner would not be able to set up a name’plate, to
give hours of consultation on his lettervpaper, to use a
visiting/card. This Bill in its present form, whether
intentionally or otherwise, creates the conditions of a
complete medical monopoly. As it stands, its effect will
be to place in the hands of registered practitioners control
of the business of supplying medicines and surgical
appliances to the public, and will enable them to suppress
every form of irregular or non’registered practice. The
Bill purports only to prohibit general advertisement and
sale of medicines, surgical appliances, or treatment of
certain speciﬁed diseases. Actually it goes beyond this
purpose. It prohibits the publication by any person of
any offer to diagnose diseased conditions or to receive
from or on behalf of another person any statement of
that person’s symptoms of ill/health with a View to
providing or advising treatment; and, further, prohibits
an offer to treat by correspondence any of the speciﬁed
diseases. In practice, this would mean that no person
whatever could announce, in the general press, or by
means of circulars, or even books and pamphlets, that he
is prepared to diagnose and treat disease—disease in

general, or a particular disease, or any of the diseases
speciﬁed in the Bill."

That is one reason why this subject is becoming
one of acute anxiety.

Another is the Bill that is now before the House
of Lords, for the registration and regulation of
Osteopaths, which was given a Second Reading in
the House of Lords on December 11th, 1934. We
have published in PROGRESS TODAY a very full
account of the Debate that took place, and I
particularly recommend you to read the speeches

4

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in opposition to the Bill by Lord Moynihan and
Lord Dawson of Penn. Lord Moynihan charac'
terised osteopathy as a “ spurious science ” and as
an object “ for the derision of all competent and
experienced minds.”

I believe that today there will be a sharp
difference of opinion on the subject of regis’
tration. Some of you may agree with my View,
which, though I am in the chair, I will state
brieﬂy. My View is that the way of medical
freedom lies along the path of progressive
registration. There was a time when the present
medical profession was not registered. Let us
remember the early, humble days of the barber'
surgeons. There came a time when they sought
and obtained registration. They had to ﬁght for
recognition, for registration. The pomp and
circumstance which in later days came to surround
the orthodox medical profession were as yet non!
existent. If all who believe in medical freedom
agitate and work for registration of the various
schools of medical practice the present medical
monopoly will eventually break down. I am not
going into what has happened in Germany.
A great deal could be said about what has
happened in Germany. But one thing which
is of interest to us this evening is that,
with the advent of Hitler, who is a devotee of
Nature Cure, the Nature Cure practitioners of
Germany have obtained the same rights and the
same privileges as the allopathic practitioners.
A few years ago when I was in Stockholm I was
amazed to read in a book by Professor Santeson,
a wellrknown specialist and scientist, a reference
to homoeopathy as humbug. At that time there
had been held in London a great HochOpathic Con!
gress with the Prince of Wales as President! So
you see the idea of what is “ humbug " and what is
“ quackery " changes with time, and changes also
with locality.

 




 

 

 

 

 

Some of you will not agree with this; some of
you will say “ let us have complete freedom; no
registration; no interference, no control.” Let me
put to you for one moment the reason against that.
It can be embodied in one little word: Inquests.

I have with me here a whole sheaf of reports
of inquests which have been held during recent
years on patients who have died under the care of
‘ herbalists, Christian Scientists, and other unr
orthodox practitioners. Bernard Shaw, the Moliére
of our day, last summer said that if a man or woman
dies following an operation there should be an in’
quest. He added: “ If I stuck a knife in a man and
took 100 guineas from him there would be an in'
quest.” Whereas there is very often—I will not say
always—but practically always, an inquest, when
somebody dies under treatment by an unregistered
practitioner—and people are bound to die, because
the unregistered practitioner very often gets
people in the last stages of disease—~there are no
inquests when it is a matter of fatal results of
registered practice. I have also here a sheaf of
reports of cases where there should have been
inquests, a case where forceps were forgotten,
another where a needle broke in the body of the
patient, a third where there had been long waiting
before the case had received attention.

In 1920, that is ﬁfteen years ago, we were
threatened with great infringement of personal
liberty. It was at the time when an Interim Report
of the Medical Consultative Council, appointed
by Dr. Addison under the Ministry of Health,
had put before the country a scheme which aimed
at .the medical inspection and control of every
c1t1zen. That scheme was defeated through
the work and agitation of people like ourselves.
And. in June, 1920, I called a Conference on
Medical Liberty at the Caxton Hall. We then
put forward a scheme for forming a People's

Parliamentary Party for Medical Liberty, with the
followmg objects :

 

 

 

 




“54...;5:3 . 1‘.‘

_. .34 3-..-

 

 

 

 

1. To resist legislation by which the right of the
individual to reject orthodox treatment would be abrogated,
and prevalent theories in allopathic Medicine be identiﬁed
with the State.

2. To spread knowledge of the various schools of
nonconformists in Medicine and to demand for them the
same liberty and independence as have been obtained by
nonconformists in Religion.

3. To provide a system of registration for all persons
who uphold the principles of medical liberty, and who
wish to consult unregistered practitioners.

4. To provide legal defence for unregistered prac'
titioners and to resist illegal and unnecessary inquests on
their patients.

’5. To work for extended recognition of practitioners,
thereby giving facilities for the modern demand for systems
of healing which are in advance of those accepted by the
dominant school of Medicine.

6. To safeguard the public against fraud by encouraging
the various societies and bodies concerned with unorthodox
practice to qualify and register their own practitioners,
and to promote an Act of Parliament by which such
qualiﬁed practitioners will be able to exercise their powers
of healing without being molested and subject to crimin
charges.

Why is there this movement for Medical Free,
dom? We have here today with us registered
medical friends; I hope we shall hear their points
of view. I may say that there has been within the
Medical profession the same system of rejection
and of persecution of men who held unorthodox
views, for example, in regard to cancer, as there
has been of the unregistered. Medical history is a
matter of theories and fashions that have held sway
for a little time. The study of those fashions is
very entertaining, but not so entertaining for
those who have suffered severely under the sway
of those theories. Let me remind you for one
moment of the fashion of blood’letting; of the
use of leeches; of Lister's carbolic spray; of all the
many medical theories at which you now smile. And
let me remind you of the present craze—4 can use
no other word—for inoculation and vaccination,
of the Voronoif fashion of transplantation of glands,

7

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

the general utilisation of A slaughterhouse products
and offal. When I was in a Chicago slaughterr
house some years ago, I was shown immense rooms
full of offal and one of the Directors said: “ For!
merly this was all a dead loss. Now we have hired
medical research peeple, and it is all sold as medi’
cine.” Some of the things which we object to in
the prevalent Medicine are so nasty that I cannot
mention them; sufﬁce it to say that the American
fashion of making use of accidents and corpses is
spreading fast all over the world, and it is only
those unfortunate creatures who, like myself, read
medical and scientiﬁc journals critically, who really
know what is going on today.

There has been the fashion of cutting out tonsils,
the fashion of cutting out the appendix, the fashion
of this operation and that operation, and today
we have even the fashion of a reaction against too
many operations. If I had the time, which I have
not, I could show you how excessive operative
zeal is ﬁnally corrected by time—but corrected at
what cost! And so we come back to this allr
Important subject of medical freedom, and perhaps
I may say this: the public today is fast growing
beyond the theories that prevail in orthodox Medi’
cine. They are learning hygiene, they understand
something about self'health; they are acquiring a
little of the knowledge which the wild animals had
already before we attempted to get it. We are
not meant to live in the misery of bodily dis/ease ;
we are meant to be healthy; healthy through our
way of living, our diet, our breathing, our exerr
use, our knowledge of how the body heals itself.
And I hope that the day will come when we shall
be able to. have a meeting in the Albert Hall of all
the organisations, societies, practitioners and repre’
sentatives not only of the principles of medical
freedom but of the principles of advanced hygiene
and advanced knowledge of how to keep well.

8

 

 




' , _ ;~ - ~“f aw ﬂw , a_,_<_

 

 

Inquests

MR. B. ST. JOHN DOHERTY, D.O.: Madam
Chairman: Ladies and Gentlemen: I had
hoped to hear what other peOple had to say
before I was called upon to speak. There are so
many questions down for discussion that I hardly
know which to choose to talk about. As regards the
Inquests that the Chairman has spoken of, I have
had quite a lot of personal experience in these
matters, having a fairly big Health Home in the
North of England, and of course, from time to time
having peOple unfortunately die there. When this
has taken place we have been put to a tremendous
lot of trouble and the Coroners, as a rule, have
gone out of their way to be as sarcastic as they
possibly could and to ﬁnd out how we killed the
poor unfortunate individual who was foolish enough
to repose faith and trust in our methods. I know
once, some years ago, I had the unhappy experience
of a lady dying from pernicious anaemia. She
had only been in my Home for six days. But the
Coroner was quite sure that during that time I ,
had done something to her that was the cause of
her death. Unfortunately for him, I had taken
blood counts and had got the slides and had made
a microscopical examination. I supplied him with
the blood counts. He rose, in a pompous way,
adjusted his glasses, and turned to a medical man
who was present, and said: “I have got a mathe’
matical sum here; it is an amazing thing; it seems
that there are 1,25 0,000 red blood corpuscles in a
drOp of this woman’s blood! ” Of course the poor
unfortunate medical man had to get up and tell
him that there ought to have been about 4-;- or 5'
million! Then he asked me how I knew that this
was pernicious anaemia when the lady’s own doctor,
a very eminent man, did not know himself. I
replied, “ Well, I can only say that he has been
rather negligent. He ought to have made it his

9

 

 




 

 

 

business to ﬁnd out.” The coroner said “ How could
he have done that?” I said “ By analysing the
blood; by making a microscopical test to see whether
there were any abnormal cells present.” “ But,"
he said, “ he is not a wealthy man like you. He
has not got the apparatus.” To which I replied,
“Because he has not the apparatus, is the woman to
die? You are accusing me of killing her, and I
am telling you that this woman’s death is due to
the ignorance or negligence of this particular
doctor.”

However, that was just one. We have had a
number of inquests, and on one particular occa«
sion the Medical Ofﬁcer of Public Health was run
ning about trying to pick up information about
another gentleman who died at my place. He tried
to incriminate me and to say that I had something
to do with causing him to die. But unfortunately
two eminent specialists had quite overlooked the
cause of his illness, or the nature of his illness, and
the man, who had an abscess in the lung, had been
told to go to Bournemouth to recuperate for three
weeks, and when he got back in the same condition
‘ he had been told to go to bed for a month, by
another eminent specialist, and it was not until he
came to my place that I thought of taking an X’Ray
picture of the lungs and found out the condition.
The man was too ill to be Operated on in any case,
If he had wanted to, and the recuperative powers
of the body were not strong enough for him to
regain health, and so he died. And if I had not
taken a lot of trouble to keep the X’Ray plates
and that sort of thing, I should probably have
languished in jail, or had some heavy ﬁne to pay.

In. Manchester, about a month ago, we had a
meeting at which a debate took place on what was
the future of Medicine. It was held to get some
ideas as. to what the people thought of the future
of Med1c1ne and the present practice of Medicine. '
I am one of those people who think that medical

10

 

 

 




 

 

people ha_ve usurped a lot of privileges. They
have been granted powers that no other class of
people on the face of the earth possess and I
maintain that the laws that have been passed cone
cerning them have not been passed for the good
of the public but to protect a profession. I also
maintain that, as a class, medical pe0ple are the
most ignorant on the face of the earth. I maintain
that they start at the wrong end and work back!
wards. I do not think anybody would be given
credit for a great deal of sense if they waited until
a thing had happened and then tried to rectify it.
What would you think, for instance, of a religious
man, a priest or a parson or minister of any kind,
who waited until his parishioners committed some
frightful sin and then tried to show them the path
of rectitude? Why should a medical man wait
until disease symptoms are in evidence before he
tries to eradicate them, or to show the person how
to live so that disease will not develop? It is
like ﬁnding a hole in the road and instead of going
forward and advising peeple of the danger, waiting
until they fall in and then very graciously cone
descending to try to help them out. Not only
that but Medicine—orthodox Medicine—is based
on two fundamental principles and unless those two
principles can be demonstrated, it does not stand
much chance of being accepted by thinking people.
The ﬁrst is diagnosis, the second treatment. The
ﬁrst thing all medical men have to do is to diagnose
the condition of the patient and the second thing
that they have to do is to treat the patient.

Wrong Diagnoms
Now, medical men themselves will admit—and
the higher they are in their profession the more
readily they will admit it—-—that quite 50%
of their diagnoses are wrong. What does that
mean ? It means that once out of every twice the

11

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

patient is being treated for the wrong thing. That
would not matter so much, but when you come to
consider the means of treatment, you cannot think
of a single poison on the face of the earth that is
not employed in some way or another as a medicine.

By what kind of topsy’turvy reasoning can you
arrive at the conclusion that what will kill a man
in health will make a sick man well ? Then again,
operations are greatly in vogue today, and, on the
same admission that diagnoses are wrong 50% of
the time, we come to the startling conclusion that
once out of every twice the wrong organ is being
operated upon, the wrong part is being cut out.
That is a very serious matter. There are no two
ways about it.

With regard to the laws of life, I maintain that
the Nature Cure practitioner is miles ahead of any
other practitioner, simply because he teaches the
person how to live, and I believe that the individual
only needs to be taught. I believe that health
comes as a result of loyalty to the laws of life, as
expressed in a knowledge of those laws and in
conformation with them, obeying the laws of life.
I believe that Almighty God made each and every
one of us and endowed us with the powers of
being healthy, off our own bat. In the beginning
there were no doctors. It is a crime to believe that
our health should be dependent upon deep research
on the part of the doctors, or the close proximity
of adrug’store where the poisons can be bought.
I maintain that man is a masterpiece of God and,
as such, he should be able to maintain himself in
health. Just imagine what Nature does. Nature
made you and me from a tiny speck of protoplasm,
developed us with all our organs and parts, each
complete in itself, and a combination forming that
wonderful entity called the body. If Nature can
make us from a tiny inﬁnitesimal speck, and with
all those intricate organs and parts, surely she can

repair that wonderful body of ours ? Surely, if '

15!

 

 




 

 

 

you obey her laws, you will not be punished. It is
an insult to Almighty God to turn away from His
unchanging laws to man’made laws of cure. We
should obey the laws of our being. We should
understand why we are here and what we have
to do. The great laws of life do not change their
course because we are ignorant of them, and as
long as we have eyes to see and ears to hear we
have no right to ﬁnd fault. All we have to do is
to ﬁnd out why we are ill, how we have been so
foolish as to live in such a way that Nature has
had to bring about a condition called disease to
save our bodies from dying. Disease is really
Nature’s way of cleansing the body and should
be carefully handled and treated, not suppressed,
not stopped, because when it is suppressed the
impurities are retained in the body.

Nature Cure Theory

I will explain as brieﬂy as I can the Nature Cure
theory and phiIOSOphy of disease.

We believe that in health the body takes in
material through the mouth that is absorbed into
the living tissue by the aid of sunlight and air,
exercise, and so on; that that material is utilised
and built into the body; that there are four avenues
of elimination through which waste matter may be
thrown out—the bowels, the skin, the kidneys and
the lungs; and that when the body is in health,
those four channels ‘of elimination are quite
sufﬁcient to throw out the waste matter, but that in
disease, waste matter has accumulated to such an
extent that these organs are unable to eliminate
them, and Nature is compelled to use some
vicarious means of elimination, which she does in
the forms of disease. The different forms of disease
are nothing more or less than the manifestation of
Nature trying to eliminate waste matter that has
accumulated through erroneous methods of living,
and what we should do is, not to .try to ﬁnd a

18

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

cure, but to try to ﬁnd out what mistakes we have
made, and to correct them.

MISS LIND’AF’HAGEBY : Manchester has a very
active Health Society and Dr. Doherty is the lead'
ing spirit in that Health Society. I Spoke there
at a meeting the other day, when he was Chairman,
and I noticed how well he leads the people of
Manchester in the ways of prevention of disease

and the science of health.

Osteopathy

MR. E. L. MACNAGHTEN, D.O.: It seems to me,
and I am sure to you too, that if we really want
medical freedom, and freedom from medical tyranny
of all kinds, we must try to learn what really is
the truth. After all, that is all that matters. The
truth shall make us free.

It does seem to us who have been practising
osteOpathy fOr a long time, that here, at any rate,
we have part of the truth. It is not a cure for
everything, but there are deﬁnite sections of ill’
health which yield to nothing else at all, and,
listening to Miss LindrafrHageby and to
Dr. Doherty, I could not help remembering a little
story I heard about an Irish Roman'Catholic
Bishop, who went to a village where he had sent a
new priest. The priest was not at home, so the
Bishop went down the village street and he saw
Mrs. Moriarty, whom he knew of old, and he
asked: “ Well, Mrs. Moriarty, how do you like

your new priest ? "

“ Sure, there’s not a ﬁner priest in the whole of
Ireland,” said Mrs. Moriarty enthusiastically.

“I am very glad to hear that. Is he a good
preacher ? ”

“ There’s not a ﬁner preacher from Cork to

:Antrim. Sure, the very birds of the air listen to
mm.“

34

 

 




 

 

“I am very glad to hear that. What did he
preach about on Sunday ? "

“ Well, your lordship, he preached on hell."
“ Did he ? What did he say about hell? ”

“ Well, I can‘t remember exactly what he said,
but he spoke as if he had been born and bred
there.”

Now I do not suppose any of us have been born
and bred in the particular sciences we practise; but
there is no doubt about it that as we go on
practising we do begin to ﬁnd out something about
the truth. The truth about osteopathy really is
just this: That there are certain conditions of
structure which cause imperfect functioning; that
if you have anything wrong with the structure of
the body, you will almost certainly get some trouble
with the organs, and the way to treat those organs
is the perfectly natural way of putting back the
structure where it belongs. Now it is very difﬁcult,
of course, for a doctor of osteopathy to say much,
except from his own personal experience, and if I
mention certain things that have happened, I do not
want you to think it has anything to do with me,
personally. We can all do the same with the same
cases. It is the science that matters and if we can
get hold of the right principle and knowledge about
this, we can be free for ourselves, we can make
others free.

I think there are a great many objections to the
Osteopaths’ Bill, and I am on the side of people
who are against it. I think it will put a great
many Of us in a very false position. I think that
if we have any registration of osteopathy (as I
suggested years ago to Mr. Neville Chamberlain).
we ought to have a very strict examination, and
nobody ought to be allowed to go on that register
unless he passes a severe examination in anatomy
and physiology. This particular Bill would throw
Open the gate to all kinds of people and I think

15

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

it is a retrograde movement, organised very largely
by peOple who come from America.

One of the basic principles of osteopathy is that
much of the suffering which afflicts humanity can
be alleviated and often completely cured by moving
bones, which, having become misplaced, are press'
ing upon nerves and blood/vessels. There are in
the human body 24 movable spinal bones and on
each side of these go out the nerves and blood’
vessels that go to every part of the body, and if
they be misplaced by knocks and jars, by colds, by
all kinds of things—even old age will contract
them—the result is that the organs supplied from
that segment of the spine will suffer.

So the skilled osteOpath simply goes about the
ordinary natural way of Nature; he just puts back
exactly what is wrong. He puts it back in the
same way as it was put wrong, only by gentle force
applied in a different direction. That is what
osteopathy does, and if I may I will give just one
other illustration.

The “ Incurable ” Cured

Here is a case, for instance. lVIiss Lind/af'
Hageby referred to Lord Moynihan saying
osteopathy is a matter for derision. That is per’
fectly absurd. I have no axe to grind, but that is
perfectly untrue. It is not an object of derision at
all. I myself was cured by osteOpathy. After the
war I was invalided out of the Royal Engineers
and told I had three years to live. I saw many
specialists, had much treatment, without anything
being achieved; but in the end I was taken to an
osteopath and cured in three months. Since then I
myself have had similar kinds of cases with the same
results. A man came to me not long ago, a Major
in an Indian Regiment, and he had been to many
doctors. He had almost lost the use of his left leg
and was gradually getting worse, until he could

16

 

 




 

 

not move more than a hundred yards without
sitting down ; and he was told he would have to
retire. So he came to me. He got two months”
leave from the India Ofﬁce. After 20 treatments
he was able to walk 12 miles “ on the high hard
road,” and I now hear from him from India that
he is able to spend three days on the mountains
walking with his Ghurkas and is perfectly ﬁt.
What had happened in that case was, he had had
a fall ﬁfteen years before, and the nerves going to
his legs were absolutely caught and pinched like
an animal in a trap. All I did as an osteopath
was to see what had happened, release that trap,
and free the nerves. Why should Lord Moynihan
or any other man treat this with derision?

There was a man the other day who had frightful
headaches. He came to me last June, said he
would have to give up all his work. What was
the matter with him ? Simply a hunting accident.
About seven years ago, he had “ pinched ” certain
nerves, and the agony was intense. All I had to
do—it took me three weeks—was to free those
nerves, and as soon as they normalised he got
better, and today he is well and has no more head’
aches than you or I.

These things are not matters for derision at all.

Now here is a case of a girl who fell off a
bicycle. She was sent to me by a solicitor, near
Birmingham. She had been to the Birmingham
Hospital, and a surgeon wrote and said he did not
himself believe in osteopathy, but he believed there
was nothing to be done for this girl except an
operation on the bottom bone of the spine, because
the X’ray “ seemed to show ” that it was fractured.
When she came to me, I knew that could not cause
the paralysis, and the bone was not fractured. It
was badly misplaced. It was perfectly easy to put!
that bone back into place, although I have heard
distinguished surgeons in a Court of Law swear on
oath that you could not move that bone. It is a

17

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

wicked thing to say. I have moved it dOZens of
times, and it is often a cause of great trouble. In
nine days this girl went home, perfectly able to
walk. Any osteopath could have done that. It
has nothing to do with me specially. Any osteo
path could do exactly thesame thing. There are
all kinds of cases like that. Let me give you just
one more instance. It really is pathetic; it makes
you feel that it is the medical people who are
objects of derision in this case. This unfor’
tunate girl wrote to me and said she had a
. tubercular spine. Well, that is a thing, of course,
we simply cannot touch, so I wrote and said that I
would not even see her. But she insisted, so I
agreed and she came to see me. She had been
lying in bed twelve or eighteen months in Switzer’
land, in a sanatorium. She had spent over £1,000
on herself—on her back—and she said: “ Here
you are,” and showed me the X’ray photographs;
and there was a great “ X ” against one of the
bones, and she said “ That is the bone that has
been eaten away by tuberculosis.” I said “ Well,
that is very serious. I don't see how you have
lived so long. Let me see the back.” And I felt
the bone, and there was this bone that was sup!
posed to be eaten away, actually there—but in the
wrong place, and the bones above and below were
also in the wrong place. I said “ This is very odd ;
I cannot understand it. Your bone is not eaten
away at all.” She said “ Well, that is what they
all told me."

So I went to a surgeon, a great friend of mine,
and I said “ What about this? ” He said “ Don't
you be a fool. Don’t touch that back. It is very

dangerous. And perhaps it is tuberculous and you
will be in the wrong.”

I said “I don’t think I am wrong. Anyhow, the
bone is certainly there.” At length, with fear and
trembling, I moved the bones. And I give you
my word that in three weeks that girl was well.

18

 

 




It was not tuberculosis at all. What had happened
was that two years before she had been stooping
down to wind up her motor’car and she had put
these three bones out of place. Osteopathy could
have cured her then and saved her much suffering.
An old Latin poet said:
‘Nobody will please everybody; not even
Jupiter will please everybody."
That is perfectly true, but I do think that
1 osteopathy, working along these lines carefully
and only taking selected cases (because it would
not be true to say that osteopathy cures everyv
, things—it won’t cure some things that Mr. Ellis
l Barker, whom I see here, can cure; it won’t
cure some things that Dr. Doherty’s method can
cure; but it will cure many things) and in its
own Sphere, osteopathy does get the most won’
derful results—~I should think probably 98 per
cent. of my patients are perfectly satisﬁed, because
I try to stick to the cases one really can help.
There was a lady who came in the other day;
(there is a little bone here, in your throat) she
came to me and said that she had a terrible throat,
could not talk, had been to Switzerland to get
advice—that was a borderline case. Sometimes
we get cases we do not know whether we can
help or not. She was an old patient, and I told
her I did not know much about it, but I gave her
l seven treatments and she got well. I moved that
l little bone 1n her throat. That is the sort of thing
l we cannot be quite sure of. So if you hear of
l . osteopathy not getting results, it is not because the
science has failed, but it is probably because the
osteopath has taken on a case he knows might not
be successful, after he has warned the patient that
it might not be a success. Usually you get
1 successes, because you only take on cases you think
‘ W1"- Vleld to this method of treatment.
l We want to hold this knowledge because as the
i old sage said:

 

 

19

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“ Knowledge, given wings, brings enlightenment
to all mankind ”

and we want to get at truth and real knowledge.
I think you will ﬁnd that the leaves of this Tree
of Knowledge are for the healing of the nations.

MISS LIND'AF'HAGEBY: I should like to
ask the speakers to give us their views on
these all/important subjects: How are the present
unacknowledged and unorthodox schools to
receive recognition? How are practitioners to be
saved from insult and from inquests? My interest
in this whole question was ﬁrst roused when I tried
to help a man who was had up for manslaughter
-——Mr. Aird. Some years ago I went up to Lane
cashire to speak at the house of a miner who had
been in prison for four months because a patient
of his had died. The healer was a herbalist. I
think Miss Loat was with me. By the time we
arrived at the house there was a queue of people
waiting. The man had not yet arrived from
prison, and we asked “ Who are all these people?”
“ Oh, they are the patients, waiting.” The Judge,
when he sent the man to prison had said “ This
will teach you not to attempt to practise again
when you come out of prison!”

MR. WM. H. WEBB: I was there. He said “ It
will break up his practice.” That was our present
Lord Chancellor, Sankey.

MISS LIND’AF'HAGEBY: I ask the speakers to
tell us whether they are for progressive registration
or against it. You all agree that we want medical
freedom. We have here representatives of nature,
cure, of osteopathy, of psycho’therapeutics, of
spiritual healing, of many schools of thought, and

we are all agreed on the importance of ﬁnding some
solutlon, in view of these two Bills.

You know it has been a bitter ﬁght for those
who do not believe in vaccination against small’
pox. I believe it to be an abominable form of

20

 

 




 

 

 

poison that has killed innumerable people directly
or indirectly. We have here the Duchess of
Hamilton who is an antirvaccinationist; not one
of her seven children was vaccinated, and at the
present time I think 66 per cent. of the population
are not vaccinated. Smallpox has been conquered
through sanitation and engineering, cleanliness,
and better knowledge of the laws of hygiene—not
through horrible, unclean pus of tortured calves,
for that is what is put into little children.

Miss Loat, who is going to speak to us now, is
the Secretary of the National Anti’Vaccination
League.

Question of State Registration

MISS L. LOAT: On this particular matter I regret
to have to take a different view from that of M55
Lindraf’Hageby. I felt while she was speaking
that many of the points she raised were arguments
against the State registration of Osteopaths, for if
registered medical men are so wanting as they have
been shown to be, if they have such failures in
diagnosis-—we understand from Sir James Mackenzie
and other eminent medical men that from 50 to
70 per cent. of their diagnoses are incorrect—~it is
not in the public interest to ask the State to register
another body. Then, with regard to death regis’
tration, Mr. Vivian, the RegistrarrGeneral, in a
memorandum submitted to the Committee taking
evidence on the Osteopaths Bill, said that the stan’
dard already reached in certiﬁcation of cause of
death was still very far from perfection, and the
responsible authorities recognised that improvement
was desirable and were continually seeking to
achieve it. “There was thus no margin of efﬁciency
which could be given away,” he said, “—no handi/
cap which could be safely accepted." Which
means to say that death certiﬁcation is so bad to,
day, with the men already registered, that they

‘1

(*1 .

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

cannot afford to let in another body who may be
equally bad.

So neither in diagnosis nor in death certiﬁcation
is the public really safeguarded by the provision
of a register of doctors who must have attained a
certain proﬁciency in a number of subjects, many
of which are considered quite unnecessary by
osteopaths and other unorthodox healers.

Medical students have to cram the whole time
in order to pass their examinations, and the medical
papers have repeatedly contained, especially during
the last few months, suggestions for a reform of
the curriculum. The point made before the Select
Committee by the orthodox doctors against the
State registration of osteOpaths was that medical
students spend ﬁve, six and seven years in an
enormous amount of study in order to prepare for\
their profession, and that the State had no right to
register men who were not prepared to give all this
time to study. But as a matter of fact, the medical
students who cram and cram to pass their
examinations frequently forget three parts of the
things they have crammed. The suggestions made
for a complete overhauling of the curriculum show
that leading doctors realise that students have to
cram far too much, and are not turned out efﬁcient
doctors by this system. Yet witnesses for the
osteopaths before the Select Committee seemed

willing to arrange for their students to undergo
31m11ar training.

In the memorandum signed by 800 teachers of
the blological and medical sciences, Opposing the

State registration of osteopaths, was this
statement :—

“ In the laboratories of the universities, workers are
constantlyengagedan the examination of current doctrines
and theories and m. the testing of new propositions.”

and it is because the osteopaths are not doing this
that they opposed their registration. Now the two
main ev1ls that the registration of medical men, I

22

 




 

Amman.--“ .... “Kl-‘3 ‘ . _ . ,e

think, has led to, are the adoption of beliefs that
cause most terrible harm, such as belief in
vaccination, and the rejection of everything not
sponsored by one of their own body.

Vaccination was made compulsory on the
assertion of a small group of medical men that it
was harmless and an effective protection against
smallpox. Both propositions were known to be
wrong at the time they were put forward, but the
traderunion spirit of the medical profession made
them accept without investigation or proof these
false claims, and for over 80 years the compulsory
vaccination Act has been on the statute book.

Sir Herbert Barker

As for the rejection of things not sponsored by
one of their own number, I might mention Sir
Herbert Barker’s offer to demonstrate his methods
of manipulation to the medical profession. Barker
was taught a great deal by his cousin, John Atkin/
son, a bone’setter of Park Lane, a medallist in
anatomy. He learned under Atkinson what he
could not have learned in any medical school in
the world. Atkinson was very thorough in his
methods of teaching. After about a year with
him, Barker started for himself, and went on
StUdying, improving and improving his methods,
and always learning something new. But although
he was so marvellously successful in cases which
orthodox doctors had failed to relieve, the regis’
tered doctors would have nothing to do with him.
In an Open Letter to the Royal College of Sure
geons in 1906 he said :

“ The stubborn fact remains. The qualiﬁed surgeon
inﬂicts lameness, perpetuates lameness, or leaves lameness
lame. The manipulative surgeon cures it. Science de’
nounces him as a quack, but the word of abuse is of
little consequence either to patient or healer. The only
question which weighs so much as a scruple in the scale

is this: which of the two contestants in the quarrel
secures the better result in the removal of suffering?

23

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

In this Open Letter he asked that the medical
profession should watch and learn his methods.
What was the result ? Week by week the British
Medical Journal made its comments and criticisms,
its attacks and suggestions, without indicating that
the man it was attacking had made any effective
reply to its published statements. They challenged
Mr. Barker, he accepted their challenge, they
passed over his acceptance, and strayed from the
point. They printed no word on his side, and
from ﬁrst to last misrepresented his willingness to
submit to any test at the hands of a committee of
qualiﬁed and competent surgeons. Of course they
would not accept his offer. The War came and
he then offered to treat the soldiers, and Mr. John
Hodge, then Labour Minister, actually gave a
dinner at the House of Commons, in support of the
proposal that Mr. Barker should be asked to treat
the soldiers. But the Army Council held that by
the terms of the Medical Act, Section 36, it was
entirely precluded from utilising his services in
any way. But the debate in the House of Com!
mons at the time marked a distinct stage in the
controversy between the Army Medical Council
and the supporters of the claims of manipulative
surgery, and Mt. Barker cherished hopes that the
General Medical Council would sanction his being
allowed to treat the soldiers. It was an illusion.
In 1927 he wrote:

“Looking back, I can see how unwarranted were an‘y'
hopes I cherished. So far as the General Medical Council
is concerned, recognition is as far oi? as ever. Even the
fact that the highest in the land has deemed me worthy
of honour for my works sake, has made no diﬂerence
in the attitude of the oﬁicials of the Faculty. They Will
never recognise me themselves, nor open to me any doors
of extended usefulness.”

I therefore conclude this part of my address
with the following points:

(1) While it must be of use to men and
women desiring to treat the sick to know some,

24

 

 




 

 

 

thing of anatomy and physiology, the long
period of study imposed on medical students
does not enable them to diagnose correctly nor
to give correct death certiﬁcates.

(2) Registration tends to stultify progress, to
exclude all ideas outside a particular creed, and
to crystallise erroneous theories and doctrines.
As Mr. R. Ernest Way has so truly said: “ The

medical man is tied economically to one of the
most sinister and soul/destroying trusts in the
world: the medical monopoly of drug and serum
therapy.”

Turning now to the Bill for the registration of
osteopaths, this seeks power to ﬁx the standard of
qualiﬁcations for such registration, and also power
to prevent those not so qualiﬁed from practising.
These powers are to be exercised by a “ Board "
which is in effect self rappointed, its constitution
being three members to be appointed by the
Government and eight members by Osteopathic
Associations. The Board is intended to dominate
completely entrance into the profession and con!
ditions of practice. It will have power to lay down
a rigid creed and exclude all ideas outside that
creed. It is, in effect, the establishment of an
Osteopathic Trade Union.

Now, at present, practitioners of Natural
Therapeutics have a very great measure of free
dom. It was emphasised over and over again in
the evidence before the Select Committee that
anyone may try to heal the sick—all that
unregistered men may not do is to represent themr
selves as registered. But directly any form of State
recognition is granted this freedom is likely to be
lost. As Mr. Ernest Way has pointed out :———

“ The Control Board may issue an order which
might alter at any moment the whole trend of our
abilities to carry out our real message of health.”

Our Chairman mentioned the State recognition
of Nature’Cure in Germany. As a matter of fact,

25

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

iminediately the N ature’Cure doctors were
recognised in Germany their numbers were at once
cut down. The ﬁrst order given was that they
must not train nearly the numbers they had been
training.

The one good feature of the attempt to secure
State recognition of osteopaths is the challenge to
the orthodox medical profession, but, so far as

their beliefs are concerned, anti’vaccinists have not ‘

much use for the ofﬁcial spokesmen of the osteo’
paths, who apparently accept the germ theory of
disease and the use of vaccines and serums.
(Whether this is simply a matter of policy on their
part, to try to reassure the orthodox medical men,
I do not know, but those who gave evidence before
the Select Committee were practically all
apparently believers in vaccines and serums.)

Quacks and Impostors

With regard to quacks and impostors, surely the
public should enquire as to the qualiﬁcations and
duration of training of men who hold themselves
out as able to heal the sick. But here again I am
in a difﬁculty. A herbalist may simply have
learned from his father or grandfather, the value
of certain herbs in certain diseases. He may know
little of anatomy or physiology and yet may succeed
where far better educated men have failed. Would
you crush such a man out of existence by requiring
herbalists to be registered ?

Finally, I turn to the effects of State recognition
in America. I believe I am correct in stating, on
the authority of Mr. Patience, a Naturopath, that
the osteopaths, when they get a Bill through in the

States, turn round and ally themselves with the

M.D.s against the NaturOpaths. On several
occasions, Mr. Patience declares, when Nature'Cure
men had a Bill up before the Legislature, the
osteopaths were the ﬁrst to oppose them, personally
and by lobbying and petitions. It is well known

26




that the greatest power behind this Bill comes from
America, and that the majority of those who would
qualify under it would have been trained in
America. We also know that vivisection is
practised in the Chicago Osteopathic College.
From the point of view, therefore, of those who
want to see greater freedom in the medical pro’
fession, and not more and more restrictions, I am

opposed to this Bill.

MISS LIND’AF’HAGEBY : A very impressive and
authoritative statement from Miss Loat. She is an
expert on her subjects.

Now I should like to ask Mr. Ellis Barker, who
is editor of a very interesting journal called Heal
Thyself, to speak to us, and he will, I think, tell
us something of the homceopathic position. He has
also written some illuminating books on cancer and
on the failure of the so’called cancer research.

Homoeopathy

MR. -ELLIS BARKER: I am so busy trying to
cure the sick (and I am not a doctor) that I
had no time to prepare for this meeting,
and I apologise if my remarks will be some!
what disjointed. Well, I was a very sick
man. I was given up by the doctors, given up by
myself; trying all kinds of things; going from
watering/place to watering/place; and, at last, it
occurred to me that the method of high feeding to
maintain my strength was wrong. I simpliﬁed
matters, became a vegetarian, and here I am. I am
66 years old. Twenty'ﬁve years ago I could not
have dragged myself from here to the next street or
signed my name. On Sunday I shall go for a
twenty’eight mile walk. I am younger now than I
have ever been in my life.

I had practised naturopathy for some time and
one day I'came across a second/hand book by
Dr. John H. Clarke, the greatest homoeopath of

27

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

modern times. I met him and he, very different
from the orthodox doctor, taught me a great deal.
Thus I learned how to practise homoe0pathy. I
have no medical qualiﬁcation whatever. I do not
try to call myself a doctor, but I can cure.

Two years ago, when the Hitler revolution took
place in Germany, a large number of German
doctors came over here and came to me, one by
one, and asked “ Can we practise over here?” I
said, “ Not as a doctor, unless you pass the English
examination, but you can treat peeple here and
earn a good living if you can cure. Can you cure?"
“ Well . . . I can treat in the orthodox way . . . ”
“ But can you cure?” Not one of them said Yes.

Now I will give you an ordinary homGeOpathic
cure. A great lady came to me and told me : “I
wonder if you can help me. I suffer severely
from sleeplessness. I have been taking, by doc’
tor’s orders, increasing doses of veronal, and it does
not help me any longer.” I asked: “Why can'
not you sleep ? ” and I found it was because her
brain was too active. In homoeopathy the inﬁnitely
small dose of a drug has the opposite effect to an
ordinary dose. If you drink a cup of black coffee
before going to bed, you cannot sleep because your
brain is too active. I gave her some sugar pills,
moistened with a millionth of a grain of coffee.
After a week she wrote: .“I have had the most
wonderful nights, but I am terriﬁed. Your drug
is far more potent than veronal, so probably far
more dangerous, so I have left it off." That is quite
an ordinary case. Now how many people are
poisoned with veronal and those things?

“Murdered by Surgery ”

Now I shall give you the reverse. A few months
ago a lady came to me, the wife of a chemist from
Coventry. Her face was as green as grass; the
whites of her eyes were green; she was terribly

28

 

 

 




 

 

 

emaciated down to the waist, and had an enormous
abdomen and legs like an elephant. (Laughter.)
Don’t laugh! This is no laughing matter, I assure
you. Two years previously the poor woman had
suffered from anaemia and she went to her doctor,
who, not being able to help her with iron and quinr
ine, with iron and strychnine, with iron and arsenic,
said : “ Let me cut out the tonsils.” The tonsils
were cut out, and she became a little worse, because
the tonsils are organs of elimination. When she
became worse, the doctor examined her from the
outside—where you can’t ﬁnd a thing—~and said,
” It must be the gall bladder.” So they went to
the surgeon, who said, “ Yes, let me take out
the gall bladder.” It was duly taken out and it
was perfectly healthy. Now, if you lose your gall
bladder because it has become incompetent, through
the formation of stones, very, very gradually, then
the function of the gall bladder has been taken over
by some other organ. But if you take out a healthy
gall bladder, it is a terrible shock. So the poor
woman became worse and worse and at last the
surgeon suggested, “ Perhaps it is the spleen.” So
he cut that out, and it was also perfectly healthy.

The poor woman came to me with an abdomen
as hard as a stone. Diagnosis—~a diseased liver.
She had been murdered by surgery. She died
after a week or two. It was a tragedy and I
have seen hundreds of similar ones.

Miss Loat referred to vaccination. Vaccination
is far more deadly than you know, because vaccine
osis kills slowly, injures slowly. In countless
cases you can trace disease to the evil effects of
vaccination, and the worst effect is this: If
vaccination does not “ take ” (if the body throws
out the poison, forms vigorous pustuleS, the
danger is not so great) the danger is greatest.
Then you get gradual decline and disease.

Now, as regards the registered and the unregis’
tered practitioner: I have written a couple of

29

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

books on Cancer. I have treated hundreds of
cancer cases, with extremely gratifying results.
Some years ago I wrote to the Editors of the
British Medical Journal and the Lancet. I had had
hundreds of cases. I had relieved at least 90 per
cent. and cured a few. Of course I was not
responsible for the diagnosis of cancer. I was
willing to explain my methods in full in their
journals if they would give me some space for a
letter to the Editor. Oh no! The editor of the
British Medical Ioumal wrote to me virtually that
he could not publish my letter, but if I could get
a friend who is a medical man to give a lecture
on my methods, he might print the lecture. How
can a second man who knows nothing about
it describe methods another man has used? I
went to some eminent doctors and surgeons and
said “ You are at such’and’such a hospital. Will
you give me a ward, or half a ward, where I can
treat cancer patients in my way, and the other
half are to be treated only by surgery and injec’
tions.” “ Oh no, it is quite impossible.” So
neither the layman nor the doctor may be taught
anything by the “ unqualiﬁed ” healer, who, very
frequently, is _a highly’qualiﬁed healer. The
qualiﬁed and registered doctor knows little except
theory; he is not taught how to cure. When his
head has been ﬁlled to the bursting point with
theory and dead facts for ﬁve or six years, at the
last moment he is taught: For fever give quinine
(which has killed a good many peOple). For
heart disease give digitalis (which often is more
deadly than heart disease). For rheumatism give

salicylates (which produce heart disease), and
other things like that.

I don’t know whether I am for or against
registration. Medicine cannot be standardised,
nor can Nature’Cure. Healers are born, not made
by passing theoretical examinations. Registration
has been a disaster to the medical profession.

30

 

 




 

There was an old doctor, Sydenham, the English
Hippocrates. He lived three hundred years ago.
He was a truly great man, as openlminded as any
“ quack.” He wrote: “ The sick man dies of his
doctor.” That is still largely true. I have
found that 90 per cent. of the cancer patients can
be immensely relieved if you put them simply
on a vegetarian diet and keep their bowels open
by dietetic means. But this is not known to the
doctors, who use only surgery, ray treatment and
morphia. I implore everyone to try it. 90 per
cent. will be beneﬁted.

MISS LIND’AF’I‘IAGEBY: I am particularly glad
to welcome Mr. Hawken, of the Marylebone
Spiritualist Association, who will speak of a
therapy that does not deal in drugs or herbs or
even hochOpathic doses; it deals with something
you cannot weigh or see, but which is of inﬁnite
importance.

Spiritual Healing

MR. FRANK HAWKEN: When I came here tonight
I did not know I was going to be among such a
number of experts. I have no medical knowledge,
I am simply the “ Man in the Street,” but I have
some experience of the spiritual side of healing, and
for the last few years have been very closely asso’
ciated with it. I have seen some remarkable cures,
and I was particularly interested in this meeting for
medical freedom, because the Medicines and Surgical
Appliances (Advertisement) Bill does undoubtedly
attack spiritual healing. I am not talking of
“ Faith healing ” but of spiritual healing. As an
organisation, the Spiritualist movement has taken
active steps to protect itself. We have formed a
Committee and we have approached the Parlia'
mentary Committee on Food and Health with a
view to getting an amendment that will enable us
to carry on the diagnosis and treatment that are

31

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

being given from the Spirit side of life. We have
put forward an amendment which, so far, has
been rejected, as the Parliamentary Committee claim
that an amendment they had accepted from an!
other organisation should be suﬂicient to cover the
Spiritualist standpoint. Well, it does not, in one
very important point: It says that a person shall
be exempt from the action of the Bill “ who bona
ﬁde professing religious belief in the effectiveness
of means, not involving the use of a medical or
surgical appliance ..... if in so doing he acts
in accordance with the principles and practice of a
religious body who profess that belief.” Now we
are not recognised as a “religious body.” We are for
rating purposes and one or two other things, but
from a Parliamentary point of View we are not
recognised as a religious body. Previous speakers
have mentioned case after case of cures, in many
cases supported by scientiﬁc detail, secured by
their system, form or mode of treatment, and
are anxious that their method shall be recog’
nised ofﬁcially, and in return are willing that their
practitioners should be limited to those who satisfy
their own governing body of their ﬁtness to practise.
Now we cannot ask for that. You cannot register,
or pass through an examination, a spirit entity,
the Guide of one of our mediums. It cannot be
done. We have got to look for the proof in the
cure, and, as one of our friends said, we do cure.
There is no doubt about that. When I mention
that last year in one Centre alone over 25,000
treatments were given, free of charge, you can well
realise that Spiritual Healing has a large following,

for peOple do not come time after time unless they
are getting results.

For instance, take diagnosis. One of our friends
here mentioned that the medical authorities them'
selves reckon only ’50 per cent. of diagnoses are
correct. I remember a special case. A doctor
became interested in a little article that I had

32

 

 




 

 

Written for Psychic News, of a remarkable cure.
He came round to see me a fortnight later and
said: “ You know, if this case is correct it is most
remarkable. I should like to hear more about it,
and the full details,” for he claimed that there
must have been an incorrect diagnosis. As a
matter of fact, it was one of the few cases in which
I had a certiﬁcate from the doctor of what the
patient was suffering from, and I gave the full
details. At the time there was a man, a Mr.
Jones, a bricklayer in his early life, who was one
of the mediums through which a great spirit known
as “ Medicine Man ” was working to cure
humanity, and it was quite open for doctors to
come—and many did—and sit by his side and
listen to the diagnosis that this spirit doctor gave.
And after listening to many of them, and con!
versing with the patients, this doctor decided to
put a test. So he interested a small group of
doctors, who carefully Selected twelve of their
patients, and gave them a very careful diagnosis
indeed. Of course when they gave the diagnoses
they were able to examine and crossexamine the
patients as to the ains and so forth. This spirit’
friend never askedJ a question. It was simply a
case of a patient coming and he proceeded to tell
them what they were suffering from, where the
pain was, and mentioned, besides, the disease they
were suffering from, and the cause of it. Going
back to this little experiment, these twelve patients
were sent, not a word was said, but a doctor was
present as the patient came along, and at the end
of it, as the doctors told me, they found that this
bricklayer, through whom this wonderful spirit was
working, had agreed with their diagnoses in ten
eases. On the eleventh case, he agreed with them,
but pointed out something else the patient was
suffering from which on further examination they
found was correct. The twelfth case he diagnosed
entirely differently. The doctor told me: “ Mr.
Hawken, three weeks afterwards I was called out

33

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to treat that woman for the very complaint he had
mentioned.”

That was a pretty severe test of 12 correct
diagnoses out of 12, and the patient not asked one
single question.

I have given you that as an illustration, for
when you are asking for registration and training,
I don‘t think all the training in the world could
better that percentage.

There are many cases that I could quote. I could
give illustration after illustration of cases that have
been cured. But, going back to the Bill, they
specially specify certain diseases—~blindness is one,
paralysis is another—~that you must not pretend
to be .able to cure. There is a case I know of, a
man who through injury during the war had the
side of the face so badly hurt that he lost the
sight of his right eye. He had been given a.
pension by the Pensions Authorities because his
eye was incurable; he could never get his sight
back. He came in touch with this friend of mine
who, on the advice of his Spirit Guide, started to
heal him. You may call him a magnetic healer
if you like, he certainly used a colour ray as Well.
Within a year this man was discharged by the
Medical Board as cured, his pension Taken away.
His sight had come back. But, a most remarkable
thing, he had had brown eyes, and when the eye
was cured it was blue. But he could see perfectly.

Cure of Paralysis

As to paralysis: my own son, when he was
eighteen years of age, had attacks of paralysis. I
am not a technical man, as I said. He was practi'
cally helpless down the left side for about a for?
night. I went to my medical adviser (and I want
to say here and now that, differing apparently
from a good many present here this evening, I am
not opposed to the mediCal profession in any way;
we want to cooperate with them; but, on the other

34

 

 




 

 

hand, we want medical freedom). We cannot
grant them a monopoly. But I believe the time
will come when we shall all work together.) In
this case of my boy I was told, after the ﬁfth
attack, and after injections had been given as a
cure, and after examinations by a specialist, that
within two years they believed he would be 110130
lessly paralysed, and I had to look forward to
him spending the few years left to him in bed.
I went to one Spirit Guide who conﬁrmed this.
I went to another medium, Mrs. Estelle Roberts,
who had a Guide known as Red Cloud who was
recognised as a Healing Guide, asking him to
diagnose the case, and he conﬁrmed the medical
diagnosis but said “ I can cure your boy ” and they
proceeded to treat him—simple passes down the
back, twice a week, the rays were passed through
the selected healer; for they work through selected
healers who are specially chosen. The attacks
got further and further apart. By the time he
was 23 he had had his last attack. Since then he
has been riding a cycle; He has had no sign of
paralysis for the last three years.

Now that was a case given up as hopeless by the
doctors.

I have given this illustration to show that we
have a case for medical freedom on the spiritual’
ist side, and in opposing this Bill we have asked
for freedom for healing conducted under
spiritualist auspices where the healer is recognised
by a properly constituted society. That is the
least we can ask for. Where your other friends
speak of training and tuition, we cannot ask for
that. We propose that through properly organised
Societies we shall protect the public from the
charlatans that spring up in all movements.
Charlatans we will drive out. Independent spiritual
healers will have to come into a properly organised
society.

Now I suggest that if we want to ﬁght this Bill

 

35

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

we have all got to get busy and the more there
are at it the better we shall get on. There was a
suggestion when this Bill was ﬁrst brought to the
notice of the Spiritualists that we should combine
With this and that organisation and make one big
effort; but we decided against it. If you have
twenty big organisations hammering away, you '

get somewhere. We should never agree among
ourselves ; we all have our own ideas, we all want
our own pet theories put forward. Let each organ!
isation get busy on its own behalf and ﬁght this
Bill, and if we succeed in crushing it we don’t want
any further legislation. We can carry on as we
are doing. For the more we get rules and regular
Eons laid down, the less and less liberty shall we

ave.

MISS LIND’AF’HAGEBY: I would remind those
who are not familiar with spiritual healing, that
Christ told his disciples to go out and heal the sick.
It is the very essence of Christian knowledge and ~
Christian work. And also, for the information of
some whom I have seen looking very puzzled, that
the practice of spiritual healing is partly based on
the existence of a second body, the etheric body,
on which the physical body is moulded. Spiritual
healing can restore the etheric, thereby making the
physical vehicle whole.

One representative of the accredited medical
profession, who has patiently listened to acrimonious
criticism of that profession, will now speak to US.
Dr. Beddow Bayly is our most prominent writer
on advanced critical examination of the present
claims and tendencies of Laboratory Medicine.
He gives us not only constructive criticism, but
makes valuable contributions to the Science of

Health.
The Profession of Medicine

.DR. BEDDOW BAYLY: I feel that I am at a great
disadvantage to start with, because, as you will

36

 

 




 

 

 

recognise, I am precluded by my profession from
telling you any personal reminiscences of my own
forms of treatment. Neither do I propose to pour
obloquy on other forms of treatment. I wish to
pay my tribute to Osteopathy, to Naturopathy, to
Homoeopathy, to any other ’opathy which proves
successful in healing humanity, so long as it does
not violate the primal principle, the Oneness of
life, so long as it does not entail the imposition
of any cruelty upon other sentient creatures.
Apart from that, I welcome and am willing to
investigate and believe there is something to be
said for any form of healing we have heard of
tonight.

But to come to the particular point which is
before us this evening. I think we shall be agreed
that in any organized community we are bound
to ﬁnd that various trades, guilds, professions,
and other bodies of the people are bound by
natural law of growth and of thought to bind
themselves together for mutual protection, and,
therefore, we should not, if we use our common
sense, try to destroy that tendency, or to prevent
it. We should rather see whither it is tending,
and help to develop it along lines harmless to
the general community. We all expect when we
go home tonight—if we can afford a taxi—to ﬁnd
that the taxi’man has been trained. When we
journey by air we expect that the pilot shall be
a trained man. We don’t want a man in that
position who may think he has a ﬂair for ﬂying !
We want to be sure, at any rate, of a certain
basic training. I daresay it is quite true to say
that an airman is born and not made, to a very
great extent; but still, we know a certain essential
basic training is necessary. In science, art, or any
profession of life, there must be a basic training
of technique. Therefore I would say, in regard
to medical training, or the healing profession, that
we cannot have too high an ideal of what that

37

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

training should consist. A man who is prepared
to treat a human being who is sick must surely
be trained in many directions; apart from mere
technique, of course, in such subjects as anatomy
and physiology, he should be a man of greater
and wider knowledge than his fellows; a man of
deeper sympathies and profounder knowledge of
human life, and a man, above all, who has ceased
to judge his fellowImen. That is a very great
thing to demand of any human being, but I think
it is not in the least too little to expect from
anybody who really sets out to heal humankind.
Therefore, I think we must agree that although
the examination systems, and various systems of
licensing, have much with which we could ﬁnd
fault, much which ought to be altered, certainly
it cannot be scrapped altogether, and our ideal
should be more to reform what we have already
than to try to destroy and to build afresh. Perhaps
many of us have thought it would be nice if we
could build the world all over again, but we have
got to start with things as we ﬁnd them, trying
to improve them. That is the more practical way
of dealing with things.

And in this question of medical registration,
and registration of bodies of practitioners in other
kinds of healing, we have all the time to remember
that a certain amount of compromise is necessary.
We have to assume that certain classes of people
must be given privileges if they have by certain
training attained special skill, but we have also
to see that those privileges do not go so far as to
endanger the public. On the one hand we have
to grant privileges, but on the other, to safeguard
the community. Therefore, I am in favour, so
far as I understand Miss Lind/af'Hageby’s remarks
in the beginning—there was not time for her to
explain in full, but so far as I understand her
position—I am in favour of a progressive registra’
tion of all types of healing, not necessarily all

38

 




 

 

 

on the same footing, but a registration at any rate
which would make it possible for a practitioner
at the present time in the orthodox profession
to cooperate with them. In the same way as
he can call in and cooperate with a masseur, a
radiologist, and several other ancillary services,
he should be able to cooperate with a homoeopath,
a herbalist, an osteopath, or a naturopath, without
any feeling of this being derogatory to his pro’
fessional status.

But I would add that if the herbalist or the
osteopath or whatever he may be wishes to be
on completely the same footing as the orthodox
medical practitioner, he should at least have gone
through as strict a training—I think that is
a reasonable thing to ask for.

Therefore I am in favour, as I say, of extending
the ability of the medical man to cooperate in
all these other forms of treatment, with the
proviso that each is properly trained, organized,
and registered in its own particular line of work

Now I want to turn just for a moment to
another aspect of this question which has not
been touched upon at all tonight, and I think is
very important. We are dealing with freedom,
freedom of medical treatment especially. It has
both an inner and an outer aspect. It is a question
largely, of course, of demand and supply, and
What I want to point out is that you are not,
any of you, nearly so free to demand any partir
cular kind of medical treatment as you think you
are. You may go to an osteopath, a naturopath,
or any other type of practitioner you please, but
you are bound from the word “ go ” by your own
prejudices or traditions, and chiefly by your fears.
Ninety per cent. of the peOple who go to a doctor
for treatment don’t want to be made whole in the
real meaning of the word; they want to have
certain manifestations of disease removed. They

39

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

may possibly admit to you, if you can delve deep
enough into their minds, that they realise they have
been transgressing certain laws of Nature, and
Nature has sent in the “ Demand Note ” for repay!
ment. But what they come to a doctor, or any
type of healer, for, is not to pay the debt, but to
defer payment. They say, “ Can’t you let me have
a treatment—~a serum, or a vaccine—so that I don‘t
have to pay it now?” They don’t want to pay; and
practically no patient tells you the whole truth.
They never come and submit themselves unreservedly
to you for treatment; they bring a certain portion
of themselves which they want you to look at, but
they always keep something back which they don‘t
want you to see; and therefore they come presenting
a certain problem to you—this is my point about
not having freedom of treatment—{hey present a
personality made up of these prejudices and
inhibitions, and it is the doctor who can meet that
particular complexity of factors who can give the
successful treatment. And when I say it is a
question of demand and supply, I mean this: that
according to the type of demand, which you as a
whole individual make upon your doctor, so will
your treatment be. If you want this putting off,
this deferment of payment, you will be attracted,
by natural law, to a doctor who can give you
vaccines and serums; so that you must not
altogether blame the profession for treating
people with vaccines and forms of slaughter/house
products about which we hear so frequently
nowadays. They are a demand from the public.
And therefore you can only alter the type of
treatment you will get from your doctor by alter’
mg yourself. Remember the doctor is only an inter’
preter. You go to a doctor and he, by his training
and through his sympathy for you, his wanting to
help you, becomes as it were an instrument for
your own subconscious mind to tell him what
is the thing you want. This may be a new idea

40

 




 

to you, but it is perfectly obvious to those who
have a knowledge of psychology; the doctor, even
though he may not be conscious of the way in
which he is led to choose a particular type of
treatment, is taught by his own instinct, if he is
a trained man, to give the treatment the patient
demands; and when he does that you will ﬁnd
the patient says: “ Oh he is a wonderful doctor.
How well he understands me.”\ But he was
simply the unconscious agent of that person’s own
subconscious self; another doctor who might have
understood him much better because of better
insight, and have deliberately withheld what the
patient wanted, would cause the patient to go away
and say: “ This doctor does not understand my
case at all.” So you have that deﬁnite demand
from the public, from each of you when you are
ill, for a certain form of treatment, and you will
ﬁnd as you raise the level of the demand of what
you want, so will be raised the level of the treat’
ment you receive. You have probably often had
brought to your notice the failure of certain
spiritual types of healing. They do not always
work, and it is sometimes a matter of keen dis,
appointment. Well, even of the Great Healer
it was said that in many places he could do no
mighty works because of their unbelief, and this
is a very important psychological law, because it is
according to your real inner belief in the principles,
upon which we have so often spoken, that the effect
of whether you get healed or not depends.

In conclusion I would just, therefore, sum up
what I have been saying in practically a phrase——
that is, if you want this outer freedom you must
develop an inner freedom. Only by the establish'
ment of that freedom of spirit and mind within
yourselves can you effect the outer freedom which
will inevitably follow when the inner freedom has
been attained.

41

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

MISS LIND’AF’HAGEBY: We have heard another
interesting speech. There is still vaccination imposed
on the people ; it is compulsory before the entrance
into many professions. Inoculations are imposed on
patients, on children; there are Open experiments
on little children. There is a whole literature on
the evils, dangers and disasters of this particular
kind of laboratory Medicine—which we also call
the “ rabbit Medicine ”—a menace to humanity.

There is also the question of inquests. Practlr
tioners of advanced methods are liable to be treated
as rogues and scoundrels by the law, and we have
to consider ways of getting out of it.

I will now call on Mr. W. H. Webb, who has
done more than most people in ﬁghting the injustice
of inquests, and who for many years has conducted
a brave ﬁght for the freedom of herbalists.

MR. W. H. WEBB: May I take this opportunity
of thanking you for what I regard as a great
privilege in speaking on this memorable occasion?
I have known Miss Lind’af’Hageby a number of
years, and have been acquainted with this Society
since 1911, when I was attracted to it by a very
important feature——a feature other Anti/Vivisec’
tion Societies. appear to have ignored. I am
referring, of course, to Constructive Anti/Vivisec’
tion. To replace vivisection by humane treatment

is an ideal which calls for everybody’s whole’
hearted support.

I recall work done during this time when the
County Councils were reformed.

Miss Lind’af/Hageby wrote to me in my
capacity of publisher of the Herb Doctor, pointing
out the monopoly that was being conferred on the
Medical Fraternity in connection with legislation—~
to the danger of medical freedom. This was
followed up by public meetings in the Society’s

rooms in Piccadilly and with Conferences with
Members of Parliament on the subject.

42‘

 

 

 

 




 

In 1927 Miss Lindraf’Hageby suggested that the
Herbalists” Association and the Medical Freedom
League should send resolutions which she would
put before the International Congress, but these
were objected to by American delegates as not being
in line with Anti/Vivisection.

Miss Lind, in defending the resolutions, said
that herbalists in this country were treated like
criminals.

At the Mansion House, some time later, herbalists
were asked to state some remedy for asthma,
but Sir Francis E. Fremantle, M.P., conﬁrmed
Miss Lind’s remarks, and warned the meeting to
have nothing to do with quacks, who were
“ murderers in the guise of friends.”

In Lancashire and Yorkshire, these counties par
ticularly, inquisitions in the guise of inquests and
post/mortems have been rife, and I am sorry to say
that there have been some in and around London.
I am referring, of course, to cases where the
deceased has been under the treatment of a medical
herbalist. All such inquests and postrmortems
we regard as an outrage on the liberty of the
people, who have the right of choice in the matter
of their medical attendants. The right of private
judgment embraces, in addition to that of a civil
right, one of a religious right. The personal care
of the body as well as the soul—in other words,
the right to choose the best for one’s physical
health as well as spiritual welfare. The question
is a civil and religious question, and both rights are
endangered. Any interference in this direction
should not be tolerated in this country.

The following opinion, clearly deﬁned by Mr.
Justice Stephens, in his charge to the Grand Jury
at the Crown Court, Cardiff, in February, 1884,
should convince 'all reasonable people of the
illegality of holding such inquests.

43

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

The learned Judge said :—

“ The Coroner has not an absolute right to hold inquests
in every case in which he chooses to do so. It would be
intolerable if he had the power to intrude without adequate
cause upon the privacy of a family in distress and to
interfere with their arrangements for a funeral. Nothing
can justify such interference except a reasonable suspicion
that there may have been something peculiar in the death,
tllliat it may have been due to other causes than common
1 ness.

I quote the following questions and replies at the
Home Ofﬁce Inquiry on Coroners’ Law, held in
1908 :—

2286 (Sir Malcolm Morris). Your League is in favour
of freedom in medical treatment. Does that go so far
as the Peculiar People who have no doctors of any sort
or kind ? That is perfect freedom ?-——We should consider
that if the man’s faith was so strong in prayer and so
little in orthodox treatment, the law ought not to step
between him and his conscience.

2290. Do you believe that anybody, no matter how
ignorant, has a perfect right to do exactly as he likes ?—
I do not think it is a matter of ignorance in men. Take
those Peculiar People in gaol now; they have brought up
a family of ten children. I think it a cruel hardship that
because a child dies they are clapped in gaol. If all
doctors were clapped in gaol because they had a case which
died under their hands, we should soon have the gaols full.

2293 (Dr. W. H. Wilcox). Do you think people are
justiﬁed in choosing absolutely their own line of treatment?
—Yes, so long as they are intelligent people.

2306. The Coroner has to satisfy himself as to the
cause of a particular death ?——Yes.

2308. You cannot expect him to be satisﬁed with the
opinion of anybody ?—-—-No, exactly—J quite agree with
that. But what I mean is that the 'Coroner’s ofﬁcer could
ﬁnd out by making enquiries.

2309. If that is so, you do not agree with the League?
——Yes; I mean that he should make enquiries, and his
ofﬁcer could easily make enquiries about the practitioner
who had been treating the deceased and whether there
was cause for an inquest in that special case.

2310. But in the present state of things, assuming that
was so, it would involve an inquiry into the standing and
training, and all the rest of it of the particular herbalist,
supposing it were a herbalist, would it not, there being
no certiﬁcate now ?-—~You would merely require to see
whether he was an impostor or not.

44

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

2312. Or, even supposing he was a Faith Healer, would
you take his opinion, too ?—I would take his opinion,
and there should not be an inquest unless there was reason
to suspect that there was something wrong. By observing
this course the door of Faith is kept open for those who
prefer to put their trust in Divine Healing, rather than
rely on the more or less uncertain methods of medical
treatment whether orthodox or unorthodox.

No Coroners in Scotland

In Scotland there are no Coroners. In cases
where deaths occur with any suspicion of un’
natural causes, they are brought before the ordinary
judiciary. The same procedure should and could
be followed in England. The Registrar would
report to the police, and if necessary they would
be brought before the magistrate. This is a far
more democratic procedure than a Coroner’s
inquiry, presided over by either a lawyer or a
doctor. Such inquiries are naturally biased from a
professional standpoint. Numerous illustrations of
unfair—even illegal—inquests could be quoted. In
Southport a Coroner used abusive language in the
case of the death of a believer in Divine Healing.
In another instance, a Herbalist was grossly in,
sulted by a Coroner, and was compared to a quack
who stood in the market place and to a Hedge
Lawyer, although the Herbalist had been trained
by his father and they were successful
practitioners in no small way. In addition, the
Coroner informed him he would hold inquests in
every similar case which came under his notice.
He told me the same many years before. Quite
recently a death occurred in a community of
believers in Divine Healing. The same Coroner
held an inquest for no reason at all, causing the
relatives a great deal of anguish, all of which
could easily have been avoided.

Our remedy is to abolish the Coroner altogether
and place suspicious deaths before a Magistrate.

45

 

 




 

 

 

What Herbalists desire is to be placed on a
level with State/protected and endowed doctors.
Either take away all State recognition or else
recognise Herbalists equally with them. I should
prefer the former. The Chinese say, “ If the
doctor has anything good to offer, the people
soon ﬁnd it out.” But until the people are educated
up to this, we ask the Privy Council to grant a
Charter to our College.

We applied for State recognition many years
ago, but were opposed by the British Medical
Association and by the Pharmaceutical Society,
who, of course, were afraid of competition. To’
day, we are proposing to ask for a Charter for
our College, and if it is refused we suppose the
abominable practice of holding inquests, which are
a direct cause of dissatisfaction and rebellion, will
still be inﬂicted upon us and those who engage
herbalists. And this at a time when fellowship
should be cultivated as in the religious bodies, who
are endeavouring to further their ideals by re’
union of Christendom.

Until the year 1914 the law on the subject of
Death Registration, in the case of uncertiﬁed
deaths, as stated on page 304, Standard Guide

to Nonrpoisono-us Herbal Medicine, was as
follows:—

Registrar’s Instructions under the 1836 and 1874
Acts, issued by the RegistrarrGeneral, February
22nd, 187 5' , in order that the Coroner might decide
whether an inquest was necessary.

1. All deaths occasioned directly or indirectly
by violence.

2. All deaths occurring under suspicious circum’
stances.

3. All deaths the cause of which is stated to
be “ unknown."

46

 

 

 

 




 

4. All deaths which are stated to be sudden and
respecting which no certiﬁcate issued by a regis’
tered practitioner is produced.

’5 . All deaths of infants in houses registered
under the Infant Life Protection Act, 1872.

These instructions applied to all cases, whether
certiﬁed by a registered practitioner or not, and
for a Registrar not to so register he was liable to
a penalty not exceeding £50.

On July 3rd, 1913, Mr. John Burns (who
was then President of the Local Government
Board) informed the House of Commons that
“ The RegistrarrGeneral was about to make, with
his approval, an alteration in the instructions to
Registrars of Deaths, which would secure that all
deaths not certiﬁed by a registered medical practi’
tioner should be reported to the Coroner.” The
People’s League of Medical Freedom at once
brought its views on the subject before Mr. Burns,
yet these instructions were duly issued by the
Registrar’General on January 29th and approved
by Mr. John Burns on February 9th, 1914. Under
these regulations the arrangements which had
prevailed since 1875, by which Registrars were
directed to register deaths of an ordinary character
which had been attended by unregistered practi’
tioners were annulled and directions given to
Registrars to report every such death to the
Coroner and await the Coroner’s decision as to
whether an inquest was necessary before proceedr
ing to register the death.

The circumstances that led to this change were
told by Sir Samuel Brighouse, at an inquest held
in Southport on the occasion of the death of an
engineer named Mellor, who had been under treat
ment by Mr. Denton, a local herbalist. I quote
from the Southport Guardian, of November 20th,
1912:—— .

47

 

 




 

The Coroner: I may as well tell you here and then
you will know that I have been in communication with
the Registrar'General in consequence of the Registrar of
Deaths at Southport having registered a death on a certi'
ﬁcate given by Mr. Webb, and the Registrar’General has
arranged with the Registrar here that no death should be
registered on the certiﬁcate of an unqualiﬁed person. I
tell you, as I told Mr. Webb, that in the case of every
person who dies in Southport attended by an unqualiﬁed
person, I will take care that, whether the death is registered
or not, I will hold a public inquiry with the assistance of
my jury.

The Coroner: Do you know anything of the anatomy
of the human frame ?

Witness: This has been my life'work. But, unforr
tunately, owing to circumstances not being favourable to
herbalists, I have not been able to qualify as a herbalist.
It would have been my delight if I had passed examinations
in, say, general medical science, anatomy, physiology,
elementary chemistry, bacteriology and subjects of that
description. Having our own pathology, materia medica
and therapeutics, many herbalists are anxious to do it
and to get rid of the stigma of quackery, so that the
British public will be able to see who are the quacks and
who are the genuine herbalists.

The Coroner: I have a decided opinion. People can
place themselves under the care of yourself or others like
you. That is their look’out; and if you like to take the
responsibility of attending to their ailments, you can do so.

Witness : I will.

The Coroner: When I am ill, I go to a man who is
certiﬁed, who has been educated and has been brought up
and is learned in his profession. In the same way, people
come to me because I have learned my profession of the
law. They don’t go to Hedge Lawyers. You are a
Hedge Doctor.

Witness: There is no man who can tell the result of
any operation. Consequently, how can you talk about the
sciednce of Medicine? Experience must always be the chief
gui e.

The Coroner: I have been listening very carefully and
looking at you and summing you up. You remind me of
those men in the marketplace who sell pills from a plat,
form.

Witness: I don't do that.

The Coroner: I should put you on the same pedestal
as those people.

Witness: I have spent my life studying.

48

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Mr._ Dentonhad been trained from childhood by
his father, who was a very successful herbalist.

The State Registered doctors today are classed
as physicians and surgeons. We, for our part, ought
to combine as herbal and hygienic physicians and
manipulative surgeons, and not allow each individual
to think they know all the truth in practice. The
Natural Healers Defence Union is anxious to do
its best to bring about this unity of hygienic healers
and the question is, how can this end be best
attained ? Personally, I should like to see a strong
organisation of natural hygienic healers and laymen
meet to consider how the movement for medical
freedom can be secured on a basis fair to both
practitioners and patients, the proportion of the lay '
men to be larger than that of the practitioners to
safeguard the reform movement against another pro’
fessional hierarchy growing up in addition to the
one we already have.

Lord Hewart, the Lord Chief Justice, is also Chief
Coroner of England, and he attended the London
City Coroners’ Court recently to Open the recon’
structed Court. Speaking of the mediaval Coroner,
he said “ he was less concerned with explaining
mysterious or violent deaths than with the
importance of securing the dead man’s chattels for
the King.” Leaving aside who stands for the
King today, the deﬁnition of mysterious or violent
deaths is the all/important point, for today there
is more violence and mystery attending deaths from
treatment by mineral and chemical drugs and
inoculations than from treatment by nomporsonous
herbal medicines, and the true solution of. .the
mystery lies in freedom to practise in competition.

MISS LIND’AF'HAGEBY: I ask the Duchess of
Hamilton to give us her views.

THE DUCHESS OF HAMILTON: I have been
extremely interested in hearing the speeches to,
night, which seem to me to present different
facets of the same truth. I am interested to see

49'

 




 

that so many of you are against registration, and
it reminds me of a story of the devil. There was
a man who thought of a very excellent project
for the betterment of mankind, and he said to the
devil: “ Now, here is something that is quite
perfect. You can have no hand Whatever in it."
And the devil said: “ Oh, shan’t I? I shall

organise it.”

I believe in the rights of nonconformity in
Medicine. I reject Vivisectional Medicine and its
immoral implications. We who regard Vivisec’
tional theories as false and injurious in their
application to the science of healing have the right
to call in unorthodox practitioners whether, tech’
nically, they are “ unqualiﬁed ” or not. And we
resent the injustice of inquests for one class of
practitioner whilst there are none for the other.

My second point is that we want to be pro,
tected from the charlatan, the real “ quack.” By
that I mean a person who pretends he can heal
Whilst he only desires to make money. It is surely
possible to evolve practical protection from fraud
whilst encouraging liberty for natural and
advanced methods of treatment. I am convinced
that every school of medical thought must be
based on study and training.

One word about dietetics. The average
orthodox doctor is very ignorant in regard to the
necessity of regulating diet. When I was
at Leysin Dr. Rollier told me that the patients
who consented to give up meat beneﬁted much
more readily from his sun treatment for tubercu’
losis than those who insisted on having meat.
Whilst we were standing by some of the tuber,
culous children an English doctor who also visited
the place turned to a friend and said: “ Why on

earth does he worry about food ? Children should
eat anything!”

50

 

 




 

After further speeches and some discussion in
regard to future meetings and steps to be taken for
the protection of unregistered practitioners and
their patients, Miss Lind/af’Hageby thanked those
who had contributed to the discussion and closed
the meeting.

 

 

ON THE SUBJECT OF HEALTH

Redd. . .

PROGRESS T O—DAY

T/ze szmmzz'mrz'arz 472127 ﬂrzti-‘Vz’z/z'wctiorz Review

A JOURNAL OF HEALTH EDUCATION

(hiarterly. Price 6d. net.

Lom’m: 15, ST. JAMES’S PLACE, s.W.1:.

 

 

 








