The Ofﬁcial Journal of the League for i 101, Chandos House, Palmer Street,
the Prohibition of Cruel Sports, Westminster, S.W.l.

Phone: VICTORIA 8496.

 

2d MONTHLY: 2/6 per annum.
- post free.

VOL. IX. No.7. JULY, 1935.

CONTENTS.

PAGE

VIEWS AND NEWS THE ONE GREAT FATHER. REV. DR.
50 A. R. WHATELY.

BIRD—BAITING. BY T. S. H.

c 1
WHEN PRIVILEGE SHELTERSCRUELTY. BOOK NOTICES AND REPORTS OF
BY HAMILTON FYFE 51 MEETINGS

T ne Editor accepts no reoponxioi/ity for opinion: expressed in signed nrtieIeI.

BY THE EDITOR

VISCOUNT MORLEY, O.M.—“I am quite sure that the time will come when
people will read of the wanton cruelties which we now inﬂict in Sport with
the same wonder and abhorrence with which we now read of the bloody
orgies of savage tribes and the cruel scenes of the Roman amphitheatre.”

 




'CRUELSPORTSP‘

’ VIEWS AND NEWS
By The Editor, HENRY B. AMOS.
' ” The General Election ' -

A Page Fif_ty i July, 1935

BBC. '

 

Several correspondents have. written urging
us to complain to the BLB.C. against the Talk of
Mr. S. P. B. Mais on June 9th, when he told
an exciting fox-hunting story over the wireless
The point that was so regrettable, writes one
correspondent, is that he described the happens
ings leading up to the climax of the hunt with
“ an intensity of peasurable excitement as of
one who loved fox-hunting.” A second corre-
spondent conﬁrms this and adds, that “ it is a
terrible pity ” Mr. Mais should sanction hunt-
ing and describe his experiences with “so much
apparent gusto and appreciation,” as his Talks
are very popular with young people.

We have sent these letters to the Secretary
of the League and suggested that the Committee
should follow up the matter with a strong reso-
lution of protest both to Mr. Mais and to the
B.B.O. Meantime, may we ask our readers to-
protest direct to the B.B.C., whenever they
hear broadcasts of this kind, as well as inform
us, so that we may bring all the inﬂuence we
can to bear on the situation.

The President Criticised

In our May issue we printed an article by
our President, Mr. Hamilton Fyfe, entitled
“ The One Great Family.” Several correspon-
dents have writ-ten complaining of certain. re-
ligious opinions expressed in the article, and,
on another page, we print a reply from Rev.
Dr. A. R. Whately, a Vice—President of the
SW. Branch of the League, entitled “ The One
Great Fat-her.” We have inserted this reply in
fairness to the other side, but would point out
that the League is pledged to take no side in
either Dogmatic Religion or Party Politics.
Under the circumstances we cannot allow a
correspondence to develop in our columns, and
we appeal to our readers to let the reply of Dr.
WhatEIy close the matter.

Record Kill by Staghounds

On; another page we print a summary of the
annual meeting of the Devon and Somerset
Staghounds, and very melancholy reading it is.
2'76 deer—157 hin-ds and 119 stags, surely among
the most sentient as they are certainly among
the most picturesque and harmless creatures in
existence—were ﬁrst tortured for hours by
hounds, then butchered to make «an Englishman’s
and woman’s holiday. Could one have a more
cogent illustration of the inherent savagery of a
dominating section of our leisured classes, or a
more damning fact of the coarseness of our
civilization than this?

A General Election is predicted to take place
within the next few months, and now is the
time to sharpen our ‘ swords,’ gird on our
armour, and go forward with increased zeal and
determination. Steps have already been taken
by the League to ﬁnd out the attitude of M.P.s
to Blood Sports, and we hope that this will be
followed up and that every candidate for the
new Parliament will be driven. by the constitu-
encies to declare himself or herself before the
election. _

All Blood Sports are a form of War—war
upon sentient creatures who cannot speak for
themselves—and when one thinks upon the
splendid Peace spirit surging
country at the present time, let us take heart
and harness this to our Animal Movement, and,
staghunting at least, will not survive much
longer.

Stag-hunting in Parliament

In 1925 a Bill to prevent carted-deer hunting
and rabbit-coursing was promoted in Parliament
by the writer and by Mr. Isaac Foot, M.P.,
who got the Opposition in the House down to
less than ten members. Owing to the writer
having to leave London to combat, at Leeds,
the movement to fasten Rodeo on this country
as a 'new National sport, the Bill was handed
over to the R.‘S.P.C.A. to follow up. Un-
fortunately, the compromising attitude of the
Royal Society to blood sports in general,
weakened their ﬁght for this Bill, and, though
we drove them, on a plebiscite of their mem-
bers, also to condemn wild stag-hunting, they
pursued their efforts in Parliament with a half-
heartedness that simply courted defeat, because
they were, alas! still in favour of fox and hare-
hunting.

This compromising attitude of the R.S.P.O.A.
is one of the most disheartening things in. the
humanitarian movement, and it is simply tinker-
ing with a basic principle of honour and
morality to- condemn stag-hunting and approve
fox-hunting. They know they will have to
capitulate some day; why not now and so cele'
brate the centenary of the introduction of legis'
lation to protect all domestic animals by demand-
ing legislation covering wild animals as well?

 

 

Acknowledgments

The Hon. Treasurer begs to acknowledge with
thanks postal orders for 5/- (Hendon), “XX”
10/' (P0019), and 7/ 6d. (W. Norwood), anony-
mous donations towards the Special Appeal.

through the '

 

 

 

 

r.

 




 

 

 

.‘O

 

july, 1935

CRUEL SPORTS

Page Fifty—one

WHEN PRIVILEGE SHIELDS CRUELTY

By Hamilton Fyfe '
President of the League for the Prohibition of Cruel Sports
Reprinted from The Daily Herald of May 28th, by permission.

I met an. MP. yesterday who raised an in-
genious objection to the letter sent out by the
League Against Cruel Sports, asking M.P.s to
support legislation to stop the hunting of tame
stagis, foxes, hares and otters.

The letter ended by saying that if the re-
cipients did not reply, we should assume they
did not disapprove of cruel sports and we might
let their constituents know this.

“ You against cruel sports?” the MP. cried.
“ What crueller sport could there be than
forcing us to tell you what our opinions are on
a matter which may inﬂuence votes?”

Well, that is one way of looking at it cer-
tainly. But can there be any justiﬁcation for
the claim of Parliamentary “privilege” which
has been put forward?

The action of the. League has been described
as “blackmail.” Now blackmail is described
by the Concise Oxford Dictionary as “ payment
for not revealing discreditable secrets.”

I can understand an MP. wishing to keep
secret his approval of cruel sports. I should

. agree, too, that such approval is highly “ dis-

creditable. ’ ’ _
But the League asked for no payment. It
merely asked the legislators, elected and paid

. by the nation, whether they would help to make.

certain laws or Oppose their being made; and
mentioned that their attitude. would be made
knoWn to their constituents.

To call this blackmail shows ignorance of the
meaning of the word. As for invoking “privi-
lege” to preserve M.P.sl from such inquiries.
this betrays a misunderstanding of their position.

In the past “ breaches of privilege,” as sum-
marised by the Encyclopmdia Britannica, have
been “ disobedience to any orders or rules of
the House; indignities offered to its character or
proceedings; assaults, insults, or libels upon
members or interference with ofﬁcers of the
House in discharge. of their duty, or tampering
with witnesses.”

The letter of inquiry sent out by the League
comes into none of these. categories. The fussy
protest about it would, if it were allowed to
pass, create a new one. But I have challenged
the Speaker’s ruling and shall not let the matter
rest.

It is part of an attempt (which seems to me
unjustiﬁable and even impudent) to prevent

M.P.s from being “interfered with by the
public ” as some of them call it.

Other recent moves in the same direction have
been the denunciation of the Peace Ballot and
the League of Nations Union, the anger aroused
by local authorities’ resolutions about Peace, and
the effort now being made to get councils which
send expressions of their views to M.P.s sur-
charged for paper, typewriting and stamps.

Can it be seriously called a menace to tell
electors whose votes are solicited what the
Opinions of candidates are? A “threat” is an
offer to do something unpleasant. Evidently a
large number of MPs feel that it would be
highly unpleasant for them if they were to be
billed in their constituencies as opponents of the
effort to abolish cruel sports.

This is all to the good. It proves that the
growing disgust with “sport” which involves
barbarous ill—treatment of defenceless animals
has become known to M.P.s.

A few votes may decide many elections when
the day comes. If a stir is made now by those
who believe that human beings owe a duty to
all living creatures as well as to each other, they
may be able to turn the scale in many consti-
tuencies against candidates who take the oppo-
site view. Would I make this (it may be asked
of me) an absolute test? Between a Socialist
who hunted and shot pheasants and worried
otters, and a. Tory who was prepared to vote for
a Bill making all cruel sports illegal, would I
choose the latter?

Although I am a Socialist, I would. For I
believe that To-ryism will‘surely be shaken off by
a lover of animals, while Socialism can be no
more than a label for one who kills and maims
and tortures and harries beautiful and mostly
harmless creatures to amuse himself, get exer-
cise, or show his skill.

I am not, I hope, a fanatic. Animals must
be killed for food as long as the mass of peeple
consider such food indispensable; they must be.
killed if they are perils to life or health. But
they can'always be killed, when that is neces—
sary, in a painless, instantaneous way. My re-
vuls10n against killing them. for pleasure is of
the same nature. as my detestation of hanging.
Fox-hunters plead that they are helping keep
down “vermin” which robs breeders of chickens
and ducks. Actually, it is not difﬁcult to safe-
guard your birds (believe one who has tried),
but let us grant that foxes needIto be kept down.

"i'

 




 

 

”Page “Fifty-two

Js it, therefore, necessary to put a score of
dogs on their track andchase them till they are
half-dead with pitiful exhaustion and the-n in-
ﬂict on them the most dreadful of deaths 'by
having them torn to pieces?

What would the fox-hunters say if it were
pr-o‘posed to hunt human thieves with a. pack of
hounds and followers on horseback?

They would declare such a. notion revolting,

damnsable. Offenders must be punished
humanely, they would declare. Yet when it is
prOvposed to keep down foxes humanely, by

shooting them, without a. terrifying and exhaus-
tive chase, the hunters say that is " altogether
different.”

What they mean is that animals are not en-
titled to the same consideration as human
beings. Ask them why, and you will get from
most of them no coherent answer. Some will
tell you that animals have no souls. Some Wlll
assert that God created them for man‘s use and
entertainment, and that. to deny this is to deny
God.

The animals are helpless. They have no votes.
If we do not take their part, they must go on
suffering. On us they depend for the decent
treatment which we can secure them, if we
succeed in arousing the public conscience to a
sense of shame.

We can expect no gratitude. They will not
know we. have helped them. But to my mind
the satisfaction which such effort brings is large
and lasting, if you believe, as I do, that all
creation is one and the animals, therefore, our
little brothers and sisters, and if you know what
delight the friendship and tenderness of animals
can bring.

It has been said that if you have loved truly
one human being you love all men. It is as
true, and I think even more true, that if we have
ever won the affection: of an animal all animals
have a. claim on our sympathy and our kindness.

That is why some of us are doing our best to
protect them from cruel sports.

 

Otter-Hunting

The Year Book of Otter-hunting for 1934-35
has just been issued, and from it we glean that
there are. twenty-four packs of otterhounds in
the United Kingdom, Ireland and France, which
is two fewer than the previous year. It is a
further slight consolation to know that thirty-
eight fewer otters were killed last year than in
1933, though it is a pitiful comment upon a
form of hunting which is more a long-drawni-out
harry and worry in a. pool than a hunt, that 436
otters were killed in 1934. We shall welcome
press cuttings and news items from our readers
helping us to expose. this atrocity.

c ’RUEL SE oar s

‘ the same terms was accepted with thanks.

July, l935 , 7

That Spot of Red

In the pages of “ The Creed of Kinship," in
which that veteran worker on behalf of all
humane causes, Henry S. Salt, surveys the
whole ﬁeld of hum-anitarianism, are many happily
expressed statements that serve as stimulants
to thought. Mr. Salt-’s power of neat expres-
sion—invaluable to an author who has much to
convey in a limited space—-—is doubtless related
to his study and mastery of Greek epigram, for
which he won the Browne medal when at Cam-
bridge. “ Wars,” Mr. Salt writes, “ will never
end so long as we picture them as heroic,” and
a. good deal of blame for the picturing of them
as ‘heroic,’ he opines, belongs to “ men of
peace,” and especially to poets, who are apt to
“ exalt the thing they deplore.”

I think that this statement might well be
extended to include painters also, for just as
poets are responsible for much of the music and
song associated with hunting, much of its colour
is provided by artist-s.

David Cox and Constable bot-h realised the
value. of a spot of red in a. landscape, and usually
provided it. But it is not to those painters I
refer, but to the more modern artist who seeks
to proﬁt by making that spot of red a hunts-
man’s coat.

One is sure. to see the usual examples of this
in the Royal Academy Exhibition now open,
and every Christmas the ‘ hunting pink ’ note
on cards proves almost as gooda seller as the
sunset-effect on a. Sl’lO‘Wy landscape, or the ﬁgure
of Father Christmas himself.

N. CARRUTHERS GOULD.

 

Record Kill by Staghounds

At the annual meeting of the Devon and
Somerset Staghounds, on May 29, the Chairman,
Earl Fortescue read the report of the Master, Col.
W. W. VViggin, who. was absent through illness.

Hounds were out 111 days, stated the report,
and a total of 182 deer had been killed, including
casualties. . This was the largest number
accounted for for more than 30 years. Mr. J.
Yandle reported that the -Tiverton pack had
killed 21 deer. Mr. Harold Worrall, for the
Quantock Staghounds said they killed 56. The
balance-sheet showed receipts £5,755, and pay
ments in excess of that sum £742 14s. 3d.
£3,300 had been paid to the Master, and £500
to the secretary. Deer damage accounted for
£1,526 108. 6d., an increase of £337. The
Master’s offer to carry on for another year on
Earl
and Lord

Fortescue was re-elected chairman

Bayford vice-chairman.

 

 




 

July, 1935

THE ONE GREAT FATHER
By the Rev. A. R. Wh-a-tel-y, D.D.

In his article “ The One Great Family,”* Mr.
Hamilton Fyfe has set forth his views as to the
duties of man towards all animals, considered in
relation to certain religious ideas. And quite
rightly; but, as he has done so, I feel sure that
the Editor will not object if I ask; that another
standpoint—that of Christians, Jews, and others
-—be represented. I believe. that the ﬁrmest
basis for the ethics of kindness and mercy to all
is afforded only by deﬁnite faith in a personal
Creator.

To begin with, do we really gain much by
playing off Darwinism against the theory of
special creation? The old idea of science being
“for” or “against” religion or certain religious
doctrines is now undermined by springs of
thought beneath its foundations. Science can
only explain scientiﬁcally: it cannot rise above
its own plane. The great question is this: is
there a Creator, no matter whether His act or
acts of creation are two, many, or one? If
the Creator is one, and if He is love, then all
things are bound together, in His purpose and
our duty, by the one great bond of love. We
may lack the love, but the lack is a perversion
of our creaturehood—anti—cosmic, against ﬁrst
principles, and against the true meaning of our
lives and their rightful destiny. And so we are
bound, in spite of it, to live as under the law
of love, and to avail ourselves of any helps God
has given us for the overcoming of this lack.
If we can believe that the law of mercy, and the
fountain-head of all merciful feelings and ideals,
are to be found in a personal Creator, then surely
we shall not want to stake our humanitarianism
upon any physical kinship or equality of end-ow-
ment. “ Be ye therefore merciful, as your
Father also is merciful ”—to those inﬁnitely
below Him.

And then, too, God’s creative work is incom-
plete and, moreover, for a. time thwarted. The
Christian; belief—right or wrong—is that the goal
has yet to be reached, the ﬁnal victory yet to
be won. Law is a poor thing without hope.
God’s law is also promise. Tennyson has St.
Paul behind him when he alludes to the “ one
supreme divine event, to which the whole
creation moves.” And there is no “divine ”
without God.

Good and Evil are drawn up in; line of battle.
But we, who are called upon to ﬁght for the
good, have evil too in our hearts. And this
means blindness—blindness to the insufﬁciency
of the popular moral standards in which we too
readily acquiesce. To assure a man who refuses
to go to a bull-ﬁght that his admiration of the

P age F ifty-three

skill and cotuiage displayed will overcome his
horror at the cruelty to the horses is to invite
him to betray to death the best in himself

because it interferes with his pleasures. Yet
this sort of argument is not unknown. And in
practice its inﬂuence is all too evident. Hunt-

ing people who are otherwise humane make a
pro-hunting island (if I may so express it) in
the middle of their humanity. No religion that
does not bring to judgment our own hearts before
the. Creator of all has the leverage to raise us
above our callo-usness and cruelty. ‘

But why does God allow this cruelty to exist,
even deep down in our hearts? This question is
too pressing a one to be ignored. Mr. Fyfe,
after referring to Nature as “ red in tooth and
claw,” adds in parenthesis “ and how we are
to distinguish between Nature and God nobody
has ever explained.” If this means more than
simply his personal Opinion that the distinction
cannot be made, it is a very rash, and of course
quite erroneous, assertion. The various forms of
this question, and the answers to it, sound or
unsound, are endless. In its acutest form, it is
the old problem of evil. Why does an omnipo-
tent God allow evil?

One word about this. I think that all the
sting is taken out of the difﬁculty if we approach
it from just the opposite angle. Instead of
starting from omnipotence, surely we ought to
start from the hypothesis that God is the em-
bodiment of perfect goodness, and then ask
why, as the Creator of the universe, He cannot
exclude all evil. The. problem—if it is one-—
then takes quite a. secondary place. The ques-
tion alluded to by Mr. Fyfe, at least, is deﬁnitely
answered. Nature is identical with God (or, to
put it better, is God’ s own working), just in so
far as it is untouched by the intruszon of evil.
Why should we be so afraid to modify the
crudest popular view of omnipotence, if we can
still hold to our faith in a. Creator and Renewer
who is perfect love, and who has the key to
ultimate victory in His hands?

*May Cruel Sports.

 

 

Ipswich Group’s Garden Meeting

The recently formed Ipswich. Working Group
are holding a Garden Meeting at Kirton Rectory,
near Ipswich (by kind permission of the Rev.
W. J. S. Weir) on Saturday, July 20th, when
the general secretary hopes to speak on the
work of the League. A cordial invitation is ex-
tended t-o all members and sympathisers in the
district. Further particulars from the Hon.
District Representative, Miss R. M King, 45,
Oxford Road, Ipswich

 




 

Page Fiftyéfour

 

CRUEL SPORTS

 

July. I935

 

BIRD~BAI TING : A Plea for Decoy Birds

. . . . ° , ’7
“ To armed nations we cry-for lasting peace, while on: helpless animals we wage unceaszng war.

Much has been said in the Press about the
cruelty of selling cage birds in‘ Club Bow, a
London alley. A Bill was passed to put a stop
to it in 1983. Why has nothing been said about
the appalling cruelty to decOy birds in trap
cages—a far worse form of cruelty, which is
rampant on some of our game preserves today.
We are told in The Field (April 21st, 1984)
that the decoying powers of individual
birds varies considerably; “ those who call con-
tinually ” are considered the best decoys.
The cry of despair attracts their comrades, who
are anxious to see what has happened; they ﬂy
down the funnel, but when they ﬂy up to it
their wing. expanse prevents them getting out
the way they arrived. Many of these martyrs
are trapped with brooding patches. Could any-
thing be more despicable?

We are toldwith the callous indifference of a
coarse mind that “ f0xes seem very fond of
crow ”; “ they scratch into and out of the trap
cage ” and the decoy birds are eaten alive. To
see the fox getting nearer and nearer, until his
jaws seize the trembling ﬂesh of the prisoner,
is one of the joys of this torture chamber which
Club Row had nothing to equal. Moreover, we
are told in this same Field “ that a kestrel got
in the trap cage and attacked a rook.” The
terror and despair of the. captive decoy when he
saw a dreaded enemy “hover” over him, enter
the cage and attack him must be a joy and
delight to a bully that is quite beyond the power
of my pen to describe. It is the most ghastly
cruelty that could be inﬂicted on a bird in a
cage. There is not even a fair ﬁght for life with
a clipped wing (the decoy birds have one wing
cut). These hapless creatures are kept out in
the open day and night, in hail, snow, rain; and
blazing sun, with no shelter. Is it decent to

subject any bird to such misery, mental torture,
and terror ?'

 

If this bird baiting is allowed to continue at
the present rate it must mean extermination
for jackdaws.

Some correspondents in The Field, June 2nd
and 16th, 1984, call this disgusting bird baiting
“ interesting.” Could anything be more stimu-
lating to their mental calibre than this mixture
of blood and feathers? How it must appeal to
the greed and the cunning of 'those who torture
defenceless creatures and worship sanguinary
pastimes on the blood—stained altar of Baal; for
it .may mean another egg, another partridge to
be repeatedly driven over the guns for fun.

“ In the Army and Navy,” writes a corres-
pondent in The Field (February 18th, 1933),
“ we are encouraged to believe that these sports
provide us with excellent training—both physical
and mental.” Yet this absurd and obsolete idea
appears to be nulliﬁed in The Field (September
80th, 1926). In the leading article we are told:
“It has been our experience that the best
pheasant shots we have ever known have been
especially stupid.”

This bird baiting is not only cruel to the birds;
it harrows the feelings of decent-minded boys
and soldiers in the Salisbury area, for we are
told in The Field (April 21st, 1984): “ This
matter of decoys was very troublesome for some
time until the local boys and soldiers could be
persuaded not to pull up the side of the cage
and let them out.” Obviously the boys had
some idea of fair play, while the soldiers may
have been captured in the last war. Is it right
to check their better nature and arouse a brutal
instinct that may be lying dormant? The
ethical and spiritual side of this questiOn may
be worth considering; it is terrible to be re-
sponsible for such needless and outrageous.
brutality. It is said that “ Evil always tends
to carry with it the seeds of its own destruction.”
May we hope that this is true, for no one has

_ a right to bully animals in this way.

We are told on the B.S.P.G.A. Cage Bird
Poster Fund notepaper, in large letters, that
“ this fund exists to educate public opinion
against keeping wild birds in captivity and to
co-operate with all organizations which oppose
the keeping of any animal in' lifelong conﬁne-
ment.” Why, then, are they so painfully
silent about the keeping of decoy birds ”in
cages in lifelong conﬁnement”? Thousands of
posters were placed to help the cage birds in a
London alley. Where are the posters and
petitions for the decoy birds who are eaten. alive
and terriﬁed in trap cages on the rich man’s
land? T.S.H.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

July, 1935

NOTICES OF BOOKS

A Book of the Beaver

“ Pilgrims of the Wild,” by Grey Owl.
Dickson, Ltd. I12/6d.

The value of this book lies almost wholly in one
feature, that it is the story of a man and woman
who, from being professional trappers of Beavers,
became their personal friends and protectors
That such an animal as the Beaver, so intelli-
gent, so human (one may say) in his behaviour,
should have been caught and slaughtered in vast
numbers to provide hats, medicines and per-
fumes, is one of those unpleasant facts for which
mankind will some day have to give an account
of itself; we have here a full picture, both of the
horror of the traps, and of the singular charm of
the animal on whom such diabolical ingenuity
has been expended.

The book is not well named. “ Pilgrims of
the Wild,” is much too vague and indecisive; a
far better title would have been “ The Book of
the Beaver,” for it is almost wholly with the
Beaver that it is concerned Nor can it be said
that, regarded from a literary standpoint, the
book is well written; for the story could have
been told in a quarter of the space occupied; and
if poor old Walt Whitman has got to be once
more quoted, there is really no excuse for not
quoting him right. Nor, again, can a careful
reader refrain from observing that while the
tenderness discovered by “ Grey Owl ” for the
Beaver, and a very few other animals is alto-
gether admirable, there is really no philosophy or
logic in the pretence that all else in the way
of trapping or butchery is to be condoned. “ A
few clean kills for meat,” he says, “ that was
the law of the Wild, and permissible,” and he
seems to have felt no compunction in trapping
rabbits after Beavers had been made exempt.

That it is an excellent thing to save a rem-
nant of the Beavers, we do not doubt; but man-
kind’s relations towards the wild animals are in
sore need of being much more thoughtfully con-
sidered than they are in anything said by “ Grey
Owl.” He seems quite unaware that humani-
tarianism is now an established fact—an ethic
of these modern times.

Lovat

3’

‘ ‘ H eaven’s Rage

This booklet deals with the cruelties of train-
ing animals and claims that‘ ‘nine- tenths of every
animal turn is composed of cruelty.” Frank
Swinnerton, who writes a ‘Foreword,’ deﬁnitely
asserts that the average animal- trainer is cruel,
chieﬂy because he is a man “ without imagina-
tion ” and possessed of “ invincible ignorance.”
The booklet is by Helen Trevelyan, the
actress, and published by Daniel at one shilling.

C‘RUEL"SPORTS

I Page Fifty-ﬁVe

REPORTS OF MEETINGS
“Blood Sports” Debate

Fifteen voted for and eight against “Blood
Sports” at a debate of the T.C.D. Historical
Society, Dublin, Mr. J. Henry presiding.

Mr. C W. Grove- White, who opened the de-
bate, spoke in favour of‘ ‘lolood sports

Mr W D. Greene, who spoke against, said
that the instinct to kill animals was of no use
in theidevelopment of the human race and any
entertainment they might afford was of question-
able value.

Mr. W. A. Beers, Mr. L. J. Winder, and
others also took part in: the debate.

——-1rish Paper, May 81.

Support from Newcastle~on~Tyne

At a public meeting held by the local branch
in the. Bigg Market, on Sunday, May 19th, the
following resolution was passed:—

“That this meeting of Newcastle citizens
supports the League for the Prohibition of
Cruel Sports in its endeavour to enter political
constituencies and inform the electors of the
truth regarding cruel sports.”

The resolution was passed without dissent
by an audience of over 1,000 persons.—M.M.

Worthing Protests Against Cruel Sports

Coursing came in for whole- hearted condemna-
tion at a Sussex Protest Meeting against Cruel
Sports, convened by the Worthing and District
Animal Welfare Group and held in Crewe Hall,
Montague Street, VVorthing, on Thursday,
March 28th.

“ To my mind,” said Mr. Bertram Lloyd,
who was the special speaker, ‘ coursing is one
of the most blackguardly survivals of cruelty
to animals that we have in any country. . .
It is the sport nearest in spirit to bull- ﬁghting
in Spain, in that the suffering of the hares is
made a public Spectacle.”

Mr. Lloyd spoke of the revival of enthusiasm
among women, and even among children, for
cruel sports—in fact, he claimed that there
were more women than men engaged in them.
Yet, as a rule, sportsmen and sportswomen
were extremely kind to domestic animals such
as horses and dogs. The trouble was that
although the law protected domestic animals
there was as yet no protection. whatever for
wild animals such as there was for wildbirds.

The meeting passed protest resolutions against
the sport, and agreed to send cOpies to the
farmers who let their fields for coursing, to local
clergy, and to the Bishop of Chichester.

Mr. A. R. Crewe presided over the meeting,
which was well attended.

 




Page Fifty-six

CRUEL SPORTS

July, 1935;

 

 

THE CREED

Daily Herald :

HENRY .

 

 

 

 

John 0’ London’s Weekly:

simplicity fortiﬁed by irrefragable logic, Mr. Salt, the octogenarian
founder of the Humanitarian Society, eXpounds his views on
social injustice, the treatment of criminals, war, vivisection, diet,
and man’s relationship with the lower animals."

‘i One of the kindliest men living,
Henry S. Salt, puts his philosophy on paper.
“In this quiet, wise book, his is a voice worth listening to"

By
s. SALT
ﬁve shillings net
C 0 N S T A B L E

OF KINSHIP

“ With a persuasive

 

 

 

 

The League For The Prohibition Of Cruel Sports

10], Chandos House, Palmer Street, Westminster, S.W.l. Phone: Victoria 8496.

 

President—HAMILTON FYFE, ESQ.

Hon. Treasurer—CANON F. L. DONALDSON.

S ecretary—J . C. SHARP-

Vice-Presidents—

LADY CLARE ANNESLEY.
SIR HERBERT BARKER.
Mrss MARJORIE BOWEN, F.R.Soc.Lit.
ALD, M. CONWAY, J.P.

(Ex-Pres., Nat. Un. Tchers.).
CANON DONALDSON (Westminster).

_ BRANCHES (Hon. Secretaries):

BRISTOL: Mrs. Trewman, 9, Sion Hill, Clifton, Bristol, 8.

HASTINGS: Mrs. Coleman, 11, Laton Road, Hastings.

LEEDS: Mrs. D. M. Beaumont, “The Valkyrie,” Allerton

‘ Drive, East Kesw1ck, Nr. Leeds.

SOUTHPORT: Miss M. A. Cummins, 46, Alma Road, Birk-
dale, Southport,

SOUTH-WESTERN: Mrs. Crosse. Rokeby, Pennsylvania,
Exeter.’ Mr. W. P. H. Warner, ’73, Union Street,
Torquay.

G. P. GOOCH, D.Litt.
GERALD GOULD, Esq,
LADY EMILY LUTYENS.
DONALD MAOLEOD, Esq.
(Ex-Mbr. Brit, Olympic CL).

E. ROSSLYN MITCHELL, Esq.
HENRY W. NE'VINSON, Esq.
BEVERLEY NICHOLS, Esq.
EDEN PHILLPOTS, Esq.
PERCY A. SCHOLES, Esq.
DAME SYBIL THORNDIKE,

WORKING GROUPS (Hon. Dist. Representatives):
BOLTON: Mrs. Margaret Tripp, Heaton Vicarage, Bolton.
GARLISLE: Mr. George T. Miller, 4, Cumwhinton Road,

Harraby, Carlisle.

COLGHESTER: Mr. E. Womack, 138, North Station Road,

C’Olchester.

HOVE: Miss M. M. Reynolds, 42, Osborn Villas, Hove, 3..
IPSWICH: Miss R. M, King, 45, Oxford Road, Ipswich.
NOTTINGHAM: Miss F. M. Roper, Belvoir Mount, Sneinton,

Nottingham.

 

BRIGHTON.__Idea1 Boarding . Establishment, pure
generous varied diet, Bedrooms h. and 0. water, gas
ﬁres, good garden, central, near Sea and Downs, inclu-
sive terms—Tariff: Mr. and Mrs. Massingham, 16 and
17, Norfolk Terrace.

BEAUTIFUL BUTTER&ME.RE._Victoria Golf Hotel. Season
terms £4/4/-, S“ iss balconies 10/6d. extra. (Quiet
periods 75 per cent.)

WANTED, STAMPS in use before 1880._Sewe11,
caster Gate, London.

HUMANE FUR! (fabric) .._104, George Street, W.1., Wel-
beck 7257.

BUDLEIOGH SA LTERTON, the Coastal Gem of South Devon.
Superior Board Residence. Bedrooms With h. and 0.
running water, varied and attractive food. Adequate
vegetarian meals if desired._Mr. and Mrs. Lonsdale
Wormald, “Mountway.”

51, Lan-

small prepaid advertisements are inserted at the rate of lid. per word per insertion or 2/6d. per line for twelve
1nsert1ons and they should be received at the oﬂice by the 15th of the month for the following month’s issue.

 

 

 

Published by the LEAGUE FOR THE PROHIBITION OF CRUEL SPORTS, at 101. Chandos House. Palmer Street,
Westminster, S.W.1; and Printed for them by NUNEATON NEWSPAPERS, LTD.. BO nd Gate, Nuneaton.

 




