HUMAN

“ANIMALS FOR RESEARGH."

(Werencbsthieref

IN THE HOSPITALS.

The Story of CANCER GRAFTING in France and Germany.

 

COMPILED BY

FRANCES POWER COBBE.

 

Méﬁez voas toujoars des hommes a grands desseins.-—TALLEYRAND.

 

 

* This German word, signifying literally “Beasts for Research,” is
applied in common medical slang in Germany both to Vivisected animals
and to patients in Hospitals. In England the latter are called in
medical parlance Clinical Material.

 




 

 

 




 

_ ___.___._L

$ 31L ' -\-

HUMAN ‘
“ANIMALS FDR RESEARGH,”

(ﬁersmhsthirre)

IN THE HOSPITALS.

 

AN outcry was raised not long ago throughout Europe
on account of the proceedings of a certain anonymous
investigator, whose experiments in cancer-grafting were
detailed by Professor CORNIL to the Paris Académie de
Ilfédecine, on the 23rd June, 1891. The following is in brief

the report of the affair :—
Paris, June 25th.

An extraordinary paper was read at the Academy of Medicine on
Tuesday by Professor CORNIL, giving an account of two clinical
experiments communicated to him by a foreign surgeon whom he
did not wish to name, In both experiments—Which, while dis-
approving of them, the lecturer said he regarded as of high
“ scientiﬁc ” value—~a patient suffering from a cancerous tumour in
the breast, which was removed, was grafted or inoculated on the
other breast, which Was quite normal, with a small portion of the
removed tumour. Soon in this very place appeared an induration,
which quickly became the size of an almond. When taken out
several months later this new tumour presented every cancerous
characteristic. Professor LE FORT and Baron LARREY protested
vigorously against such experiments, which they considered to be
criminal and immoral.—-Timm, Saturday, June 27th, 1891.

Comments on this revelation poured immediately on all
sides. Those from the medical press betrayed the writers’
impression that it was the crime of mymsing the secrets of the
HOSpital which was chieﬂy to be reprehended. The British
Alert/deal Journal (July 4th), for example, while crying
“ O ﬁe! ” at the investigator, observed that Dr. CORNIL’s

 

 




 

2

paper is one “to which, if proper supervision had been
exercised by the ofﬁcials, the fictitious (1’) importance con-
ferred on it by being read at the Académie would never have
been given.” The editor concludes: “ It is ever a matter
for the deepest regret that over-zealous and ill-informed
surgeons should be thus allowed to injure the cause of
legitimate research ” (by betraying the nature of the legitimate
resedrchesﬂ, “and that their action should appear to be
countenanced, even temporarily, by so illustrious a body as
the Académie de Médecine.”

On the part of the lay newspapers the surprise and
indignation evinced displayed ingenuous ignorance of the
history of experimentation, ancient and 1nodern,——from
HEROPHILUs of Alexandria, who vivisected 600 poor wretches
given to him by PTOLEMY SOTER (he expressed the delight he
felt in opening their chests and feeling their hearts beat),
and the doctors of ATTALUS III, and MITHRIDATES, down to
FALLOPIUS and his successors in the Pisan school to whom
COSMo DE’ MEDICI between 1545 and 1570 gave up thirteen
hapless men and women “ per fare la notomia.” * To these,
in our softer modern times, have succeeded less vigorous but
perhaps scarcely more merciful methods of research.

Ere this French scandal had time to subside, another arose
in Germany ; the two great vivisecting countries being fairly
matched in the matter. The story of the formal charge
against the inculpated doctors was given in the Vol/{s Zeitzmg,
July 18th, 189], quoting from the National Zeitzmg.
Though somewhat lengthy, I prefer to give Dr. LEIDIG’S
account in his own words :—

“First I must point out that I do not sympathise with the
agitation against vivisection, nor with any similar sentimental

efforts. My opinion is, however, that doctors should consider
themselves bound by ordinary moral and penal codes, that they

 

 

 

 

 

 

* See Professor ANDREOZZI’S verbatim extracts from the Archivio
Criminale of Florence in his interesting treatise on the “Leggi
Pe/nali degli antichi Cinesi.”

.,

 

can»




 

 

3

have no right to cause their patients pain, nor to inoculate them
with anything that induces disease without any intention of cure,
but just because they wish to make a scientiﬁc experiment. And.
now to the point :—

“I accuse Professor EUGEN HAHN, Directing Physician of the
surgical part of the Friedrichshain Hospital, and ProfesSor V.
BER-GMANN, Directing Physician of the Surgical Clinic of this
University, of having consciously exceeded the limits of the medical
profession, and the power of a doctor over his patients, by inocu-
lating cancer patients who had trusted themselves to them, with
cancer particles in healthy parts of their bodies, and of having
thus produced fresh cancer growths in these patients, As proof
of my assertion, I add verbatim the following reports from the
German weekly medical journal (Deutsche Illedieinisehe Weeken-
schrift). 1. Meeting of the Berlin Medical Society of November 2nd,
1887 : Herr E. HAHN believes he has proved the infectiousness of
cancer by an experiment. He removed three nodules from a
patient suffering from Carcinoma disse’mine’ by the Riverdin method
of transplantation, and engrafted them at quite distant parts. All
three nodules continued to grow, and developed as cancer growths.
2. 1st Congress of the German Society of Surgery, Meeting of
25th April, 1889. Herr E. HAHN (Berlin) reminded the meeting
of his experiments two years ago, of transplanting a cancer nodule
from an incurable case of cancer to a distant part of the patient’s
body, and covering it with healthy skin. The nodule grew and
increased three and ﬁve-fold. Fresh nodules appeared around the
point of inoculation, showing typical cancer growths. Herr v.
BERGMANN (Berlin) repeated Dr. HAHN’s experiment with positive
results.

“ I ask these gentlemen the following questions :——

“ 1. Did they perform these actions with the knowledge and
permission of their patients? Especially, did the patients know
that no cure was intended by them ? 2. Do they consider it
impossible that by their manipulations increased pain was caused
to the patients, or even their terms of life shortened?

“ Dr. EUGEN LEIDIG (Government-Assessor).”

Now it may interest my readers to ﬁnd that these
particular cancer-grafting experiments thus discovered in
Berlin in July, 1891, were detailed and commented on in
the Zeoﬂzz'lz'st in January, 1889. The following appeared

' in that journal at that date :——

In the Medical Press for December 5th, 1888, p. 583, we have a
shameful story of some experiments in cancer-grafting, performed

 




 

 

4

by HAHN, on the person of one of his patients. This unhappy
creature, afﬂicted with the most painful and terrible of all the
diseases to which we are subject, “had been attacked with recurrent
carcinoma (cancer) in the left breast, which did not admit of
surgical interference ; ” but it appears to have admitted of patho-
logical experiment, for we are told that three pieces of skin were
removed, in which cancerous inﬁltration was well marked, and these
were actually transplanted to the healthy right breast! The
doctors could not relieve or cure the unhappy patient, but they
could make her worse; they could not extirpate her disease, but
they could transplant it, and this they did that they might have
the satisfaction of seeing 110w well it had taken root when, in
some ten weeks’ time “ the patient died from the extension of the
disease."—~Z00phz'list, January, 1889, p. 154. i

I reproduce here the original leaderette in the Maliml
Press, as an example of the amazing indifference wherewith
such a revelation was passed over without comment by the
(English) Medical Press and its readers :—-—

E XPERIMENTS IN CANCER- GRAF PING.

Some important experiments have recently been undertaken by
HAHN in regard to cancer-grafting which are of considerable
interest. They go to demonstrate that it is possible to inoculate
with cancer elements the skin of a patient beyond the part which
is afﬂicted with the disease. The following details are published
in connection therewith. A patient of the author’s who had been
attacked with recurrent carcinoma of the left breast, which did
not admit of surgical interference, had three small pieces of skin
removed, in which cancerous inﬁltration was well marked. These
were transplanted to the right breast. The grafts united, and
two months and a half afterwards, when the patient died from the
extension of the disease and the cachexia, a minute microscopical
examination showed unequivocally the presence of carcinomatous
elements in the right breast. In the opinion of the author this
record proves that the transplantation of skin which is inﬁltrated
with cancer can be followed by the development of the same
neoplasm in a healthy part, especially in subjects who are pre-
disposed to the disease—Medical Press, December 5th, 1888,
p. 583.

The German comments, however, are those which interest
us at present, and the confession that these experiments
were announced at the Congress of Surgeons, April 25th,

 

0* '~'




 

5

1889, and elicited actually no condemnation, is sufﬁciently
impressive. En passant, we have an instructive sketch of
the history of a case of human Vivisection, which our
readerswill note originated in the Vivisection of the lower
animals.

The Borg/m Courier, Berlin, July, 1891, says 2——

The affair dates back to the cancer bacillus, which in 1888 a
young assistant at Leyden, Dr. v. SCHEURLL‘N, thought he had
discovered. Very soon, however, Dr. SENGEn, of Crefeld, pointed
out to the Medical Society (Verei-It fz'ir timere Medt'cin) the
error of taking that bacillus to be the cause of cancer, and said
further researches into the question of infection could only be
made by experiments on animals. He himself made a number
of experiments in this direction. These gave Professor Hahn
the idea of experimenting on Man, about the results of which he
told the Congress of Surgeons on April 25th, 1889,as follows :—
“Assuming that up to now in inoculations unsuitable stuff had
been used at wrong places, about two years ago I removed single
nodules from a patient, suffering from cancer of the breast, With
disseminated nodules, and grafted these nodules on healthy parts,
covering the diseased parts with healthy skin. At the parts
whence the diseased cancerous skin was taken complete healing
took place, while the young transplanted nodules continued to
grow. The patient was watched by several of my colleagues, who
convinced themselves that these nodules increased ﬁve to six—fold.
Distinct little nodules could be seen around the point of inocula-
tion, as well as in the transplanted skin itself; these nodules
continued to grow freely, and microscopical examination showed
the typical form of cancer in sections of the nodules themselves, as
well as in those from the surrounding parts.”

In the Local tel/neet'ger, Berlin, 17th July, Dr. EMIL SENGER
intervened with a long letter, written partly, he avows, to
“ calm the excited feeling of the public.” “ Suffering
mankind ” has, in his opinion, “ more reason to be grateful
to the investigators than to be indignant.” His statement
of the case is long, but ends thus :

“I do not need to defend such men as Drs. v. BERGMANN and
HA‘HN; every right thinker should admit that investigators and
experimenters can only be blamed if they act from wrong motives !

Herr LEIDIG seems to imply that frivolous experiments have been
made on patients. That, however, is not the case. The experi-

 




 

6

ments were made for the good of suffering humanity, and, I repeat,
did the patient no harm at all. Such experiments Will not be
made on persons who can be radically cured by an operation; at
all events not for purely scientiﬁc results. On the other hand,
there might be cases in which, for therapeutic reasons, or for
diagnosis, the question would arise whether it might be useful to
inoculate with a poison or transplant a swelling. These are, how-
ever, such purely medical questions that they cannot be decided in
public.”

The I'Veser Zeitzmg, Bremen, July 17th, commenting in a
way friendly to HAHN and v. BERGMANN, shows into what a
quagmire the German mind has entered on the Subject of
experiments on human patients ; and how our prediction of
the intimate connection of the same with the vivisection of
animals is being veriﬁed.

A few years ago there was a lively public movement against
vivisection of animals, which even forced its way into the Prussian
house of representatives. The then Minister of Public Instruction,
v. GOSSLER, opposed the movement decidedly in the interests of
science, and so saved for medical research one of the means they
can least spare, without which oftentimes progress in scientiﬁc
medicine would be simply impossible. When such experiments do
not sufﬁce to give the investigating doctor an assured opinion, a
hiatus occurs, which the clinical physician tries to ﬁll up by obser-
vation and experiments in his practice. When, however, it is a
question of a strong poison the uses of which are still more or less
unknown, the doctor’s responsibility will have to outweigh his
scientiﬁc interest.

There is hardly any doubt that Drs. v. BERGMANN and HAHN Will
be able to answer from a scientiﬁc standpoint for their experiments
with the poison of cancer; the question is only, whether, in this
province, doctors admit any limitations; or whether—apart from
the questionable “ permission ” of the patients in public hospitals,
—they are to have a boundless ﬁeld for experiments. What a
v. BERGMANN or a HAHN can answer for, may not be so calmly left
to the responsibility of a Dr. X. or Y.

So the eminence of the doctor is to be the measure of the
freedom accorded to him to tamper with his patients 1 Here
we have fairly the man “ a grands dyesseins ” before us ;-——the
very man whom we havemost reason to dread ! This is in
fact the position taken up by the medical party in Prussia.

 

 




 

 

7

Professor EWALD wrote in the Berlin Medical 'Journals (as
quoted in the Halberstadter Zeitwng, July 22nd) :—

It is not necessary to enter here on a discussion of the question
of the scientiﬁc result of the experiments, or their importance in
the cure and prophylaxis of cancer, or the technical nature of the
operation. On the other hand we do not hesitate to admit that
such experiments on human beings—however important their
bearing may be—should, if made at all, only be carried out by those
whose professional reputation and well-known humanity are a
guarantee that no harm can come to the patient, for which the
operator must take the whole responsibility.

Dr. H. FRANK having given in illedlicin'ischc lVochenschrift,
a very elaborate account of Dr. HAHN’s experiment, (at which
he had assisted,) the Schlesische V01hs-Zeitzmg remarks that
there are several very weak points in the explanation, 6.9. :

“Whether the woman knew they would put the diseased skin
on the parts whence the healthy skin was taken, as well as vice-
versd .2 Also the confession that they were doubtful whether the
cancer nodules would grow when transplanted ; which doubt ought
to have been enough to prevent a doctor from running the risk.”
The writer concludes as follows :~—“ It has already been pointed out
that the HAHN case is not quite so bad as the extremely frivolous
similar experiment in France. But still, it is a step off the right
road and it must be made an example of, so that patients may feel
safe that those they take for benevolent doctors do not change to
brutal Vivisectors, who treat men as their ‘ VEnsUCHSTHIERE.’ ”

Here we have the “ brutal vivisoctor ” detected in the act
of passing from the dog’s torture-trough to the patient’s
sick—bed !

But we are not-near the end of the debates on the morality
of Messrs. HAHN and von BERGMANN’S proceedings. The
Tag/fiche Rundschau, of Berlin, 18th July, anxiously insists
on the non-appearance of any ulcer or large swelling in
the patients, and, cm passcmt, remarks that there is so
little question of such, that “ many authorities deny the
great importance of HAHN’s experiments—~notably RUDOLF
VIRoHow.” So after all these “ most important ” discoveries
(chieﬂy consisting, it would seem, in. the propriety of using
clean lancets in cancer operations), are deemed of no conse-

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

8

quence by the most eminent biologist in Germany, the
formidable VIRCHOW, who slew KOCH in a single lecture!

But the Tc'iglic/w Ilia/Izclschau does not stop here. It
proceeds to make the following damaging revelation of the
doings of its medical friends :—

The investigators might be blamed had they acted unscientiﬁcally
or in any unconscientious way; but just the opposite is true.
Besides, it often happens in cases of cancer which cannot be
operated on, that the doctors and surgeons have to try most
dangerous methods. Thus the poison of erysipelas has been
inoculated, and,—I could mention names,——people have died of
this poison. The result was similar with tuberculine.

Those experiments with erysipelas, however, the writer
naively remarks, were “ undertaken in the hope of cure ; ”
which has now come, it would seem, to be a laudable
distinction! “ But,” he goes 011 to say, “experiments on
human beings are of very old standing.”

“I would only call attention to the condemned criminals who
were handed over for researches, then to the great dermatologist
HEBRA, who decided a question of lasting beneﬁt to mankind on
patients who were in the last stage of consumption. HEBRA
inoculated with ” a disgusting disease and with “a poison very
like it; and by those means distinguished the two diseases
scientiﬁcally, while formerly they were classed together and treated
alike. Such therapeutics had done. much hurt, indeed, to one
group of sufferers, and made many patients much more ill than
before. Although HEBRA thus really infected consumptive patients,
he has done incalculable good ; and gratitude and admiration have
quite lately erected a monument to him.”

“ The much milder attempts with cancer must be looked at from
this point of View; and all unprejudiced people will thank the
men, who, by exact methods, advance and build up science and
hygiene as has been done in this case,” (6.6., of HAHN and
v. BERGMANN). '

At last we ﬁnd the Vossc'sche Zeizzmg, Berlin, 19th July,
awakening to the fact that the modern doctor is a JANUS,—-
with one face turned to his patient’s interest, the other to
Science as it may be advanced by sacriﬁcing him,——and the
problem is argued ”which ought to prevail?

The matter takes a somewhat different complexion with a doctor
who is also a scientiﬁc investigator. This man has two souls in




9

his breast. In his quality of doctor he wishes to help the sufferer,
as he wishes to help all sufferers. In his quality of investigator
his object is to enrich science. Every step in advance taken by
science may possibly ease the fate of thousands in the future.
One can understand an investigator saying to himself that it is
permissible to increase the saﬁering of one, if that is the price of
diminishing the suﬁ‘erings of an irmumerable multitude ever after.
What does a ruler, or the general of an army do in time of war ?
In cold blood he sacriﬁces the lives of many innocent, brave, and
perfectly healthy fellows in order to secure better government for
future generations. In a battle the general sends a regiment to '
certain death to gain the victory for the rest of the army. And
in all this they only do their duty. Should not a doctor be allowed
to act in a similar way? If he be a disciple of SCHOPENHAUER he
can fortify himself with the dictum: That here on earth all
depends upon the existence of as little suffering as possible, and he
who does any wrong to another can justify himself that he has
prevented double or thousand-fold the harm from happening to
others. Here is a miserable, puny body, possessed by pain
unutterable, the duration of whose life can only be measured by
weeks. If by something done to this body, which certainly
increases its pain and probably shortens the duration of its life, a
scientiﬁc truth can be settled calculated to diSpel a dismal fate
from hundreds and thousands in future can one be doubtful what
to do? ”

The Vossische Zeitzmg is not satisﬁed, however, with this
conclusion, but turns from the physiologists to the meta-
physicians, and refers its readers to HEGEL, who lays it
down that the value of every individual is inﬁnite ; and that
a Man must never be used as means to an end.

The Kotnische V ol/csseitung, Cologne, 21st July, is simple
enough to remark that “ in medical circles, the affair (of the
cancer-grafting) is looked upon as much more harmless than
it is considered by the general public.” The Social Democrat,
Vorwdrts, as belonging to the said “public,” thinks the
objection of the working classes to entering hospitals has
been amply justiﬁed by these revelations. It remarks on
Professor EWALD’s argument on the score of licence to
eminent men to experiment on their patients :

“It is evident the instinct for research is contending in the
Professor with his humanity, but humanity may easily come off

 

 




 

 

10

the loser, unless the limits of medical authority be clearly drawn,
and any encroachments thereon severely punished.”

“ How many ‘little Bergmanner ’ and ‘ young Hahne’ furnished
with all the scientiﬁc arrogance of the century might otherwise
presume upon their ‘scientiﬁc name’ and their ‘humane’ dis-
positions to do what they liked with the human frame ? If any one
deserves the especial protection of the civilised world, it is the
defenceless, incurable sufferer.”

The Danziger Zeitzmg, 23rd July, sees this still more
clearly, and makes these just observations :—

‘ The relation between patient and doctor rests on the complete
personal conﬁdence of the former that the latter will only use the
best and safest means to attain the desired end; and thatihis
actions, which the patient will very seldom be able to control,
should only be intended to ease the sufferings and lengthen the life
of the patient. Should the principle that Scientiﬁc Research
(wherein the ordinary practitioner has as much interest as the
university professor) can do what it likes with the bodies of
patients, be accepted, that relation would be destroyed; and the
activity of the doctor paralysed. Among the poorer classes the
idea is unfortunately already prevalent that this principle is acted
upon in public hospitals. Anyone who knows the mass of the
people in large towns well, is aware that there is an unconquerable
prejudice against clinics and hospitals, especially amongst those,
who on account of the difﬁculty of ﬁghting against disease in their
poor homes, are just those who most need the help of those
institutions. Even when suffering from the most serious illnesses
they resist being taken to any such place. This objection comes
from the belief that in these buildings they would only be treated
as subjects for experiment, and that their lives and health would
suffer in establishing scientiﬁc principles for the beneﬁt of more
lucky persons.

Unfortunately this prejudice does exist and it has its effect.
Many diseases end badly owing to want of good nursing, fresh air,
and cleanliness at home, which, in a hospital, would be speedily
cured: At present'people fear that doubtful, or even, perhaps,
dangerous drugs and methods of cure will be tried on them. But
what will be the result if they get hold of the idea, that they will
be inoculated with new diseases, in order that their course may be
studied coolly upon them ? The fact that both the accused doctors
are Directing Physicians of large Hospitals brings home the
danger that such fears may be roused.

The Deutsc/w Warte (Berlin, July 23rd), is unkindest of
all, for it asserts that the inculpated doctors have (as we

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

11

usually ﬁnd) merely committed an offence to discover—a
mare’s nest I '

Dr. SENGER’S reason why one should be grateful to Drs. v.
BERGMANN and HAHN rather than indignant with them, is not at all
a good one. The experiments are absolutely valueless, because
they do not prove what they were intended to prove—that Cancer
is infectious to healthy people. Because a cancer nodule taken
from a cancer patient Whose blood and ﬂuids are already can-
cerously degenerated, and transplanted to another part of the same
body, continues to grow, it is not proved in any way that this
proceeding would inoculate a healthy person with cancer. SENGER
himself denies this, too, and says at the beginning that he only got
negative results in his experiments ; while further on he speaks of
the possibility of inoculating “healthy ” parts with cancer by the
operator’s knife. Here again there can be no question of infection,
for even if the cancerous tendency does not extend to the Whole
body, it certainly must exist in the immediate neighbourhood of
the local cancer.

The Sehlesisehe Volhszeitung, Breslau, July 24th, has some
wholesome good sense on the subject.

There is no use arguing that the harm done by this experiment ,

is not great, or is even hardly appreciable. Such an act betrays a
serious hardening of the mind and degeneration of the medical
conscience. This dangerous germ of social cancer must be ex-
tracted as quickly and as thoroughly as pcssible ; and therefore we
pray the Minister of Public Instruction to clear the air by setting
a severe example.

The consideration, that it is necessary to avoid shaking the
conﬁdence of patients, is a further reason for this. For should
this practice become common, no sufferer would be safe, if the
doctors thought him incurably ill. The doctor, to whom he had
trusted himself to be cured, may change into a treacherous
Vivisector.

Finally, the Insterburger Zeitung, July 24th, says :—

Whatever may be the answer of the two professors to the
Minister of Public Instruction, we must be grateful to the person
who brought this matter forward publicly. It has long been an
open secret that several medical authorities and their staﬂ' of assistants
and students look upon the patients, coming to clinics and hospitals
to be cured, only as subjects for experiments. (Italics my own.) All
sorts of complaints are heard, especially from [hospitals for
women and chieﬂy from those that are in i the hands of

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

12

Jewish doctors.* There is no doubt need of strict ofﬁcial inspection
in those institutions where the life and health of suffering mankind
is trusted in the hands of individuals. It has been rightly pointed
out that if animals are insufﬁcient for medical researches, the
investigators should Continue their experiments on themselves ;
and if the scientiﬁc journals declare as a matter of course that
sacriﬁces are necessary for the progress of medical science in the
interests of humanity, it would in all cases be better if the courage
of the investigators enabled them to sacriﬁce their own lives and
their own health rather than those of the patients entrusted to
them. By the public statements about cancer experiments, still
more by the haughty silence of the accused, the public conﬁdence
in doctors, and especially in clinics and hospitals, has been greatly
shaken. To regain the conﬁdence of the public will necessitate
great efforts and serious and constant supervision of old and new
researches on the part of medical authorities; nay, even, perhaps,
the passing of new laws by the Reichstag.

The Hamburger-Nachrichten, which is quoted by the
Reichsbote (Berlin, July 19th), and darkly hinted to be
“inspired from Friedrichsruh, where the modern Medical
Art is not in good repute,” remarks 2——

Nothing is known yet of the answer given to the Minister of
Public Instruction by Drs. v. BERGMANN and HAHN. The Ham-
burger-Nachrichten, has the following notice :—“ Even at its present
stage the occurrence brings us back to what, in former articles,
we have sufﬁciently stigmatized as the transgressions of the
doctors'against those who have neither physical nor legal redress.
If experiments on living people are absolutely necessary, the
doctors might be kind enough to perform them on themselves; not
even on willing patients for it is sufﬁciently well known how such
willingness is procured. We should have no objection to an addition
to our penal code, by which the making of such experiments,

 

* Another corroboration of our contention that vivisection of‘

animals leads up to pitiless human experimentation. In my
unsuccessful Appeal to the Humane Jews of England against the
cruelties of the Jews of Germany, I gave the names and details of
the experiments on animals (some of which are among the most
awful on record) of 40 German Jewish vivisectors. As there are
not quite half a million Jews in Germany, this gives a proportion
of 80 vivisectors per million Jews. Among the nearly 50 million
Christian Germans, there are perhaps 100 vivisectors—or two per
million. Thus, just forty times as many young Jews as young
Teutons turn vivisectors !

 




 

13

dangerous to life and health, on patients without their knowledge,
or with their consent procured by false representations, should be
punished by imprisonment and loss of civil rights. This is a case
for stringent measures, otherwise we shall ﬁnd ourselves in the
hands of doctors, who, safe from all control and responsibility “ in
the interests of. science,” do not care more for the life and health
of their patients than for the young dogs and rabbits on which the
physiologists are in the habit of practising their fury of research.

We are now entering on a struggle with Dr. J ANUS to keep
him to his true work as the Healer ; or failing this on a
period of slavery to his profession fraught with dangers
almost too horrible to contemplate. The hunger for experi—
mentation grows by what it feeds upon, while respect for
human life and tenderness for human suffering dwindle-
and disappear in. the ardour of research. Whenever (as
avowed in this cancer-grafting case) experiments on
animals cease to be valid for the particular enquiry on
which the physiologist or pathologist happens to be engaged,
the temptation to make the further step at the expense of a
human patient becomes overwhelming. As VIRCHOW himself
has said (quoted in the Til/1767‘ ~uncl- Illemclwn - Fre'zmd,
Nos. 5 and 6) 1—-

“ The inner life, in a word the whole structure of animals, is in
so many ways different from that of human beings, that it has
always been regarded as necessary to science and to medical
practice that the latter should themselves be made subjects of
research ..... The value of Vivisection is at best very doubtful.
Sound c0nclusions in human physiology and pathology can only be
arrived at by the study of the human body. We have always
maintained that, to be consistent, Vivisectors should make

experiments on themselves. Sacriﬁces should be voluntary, not
compulsory.”

Once the fatal moral heresy is admitted—that a
great beneﬁt to mankind at large may be lawfully sought
by great wrong to an individual—there are absolutely
no limits to the crimes which will be committed by the
fanatics of Research; no cruelties too great for them to
exercise,ﬂrst on the helpless patients in hospitals; a little
later, perhaps, on persons somewhat higher in the social
scale who may chance to lie at their mercy.

 

 




 

14

A few years ago Dr. GAILLETON, subsequently Mayor of
Lyons, and invested with the Cross of the Legion of Honour
by President CARNOT, was (so said the Newcastle Chronicle,
September 21st, 1888), condemned in the courts of justice
for the following offence. He took an orphan boy from a
charitable institution and inoculated him with a most- horrible
disease. The innocent child died miserably, and the doctor
defended his action on the grounds that he “ had had in view
only the progress of Science ; and that all the world might have
benefited by the death of the motherless pauper boy.”

Nor are English advocates of experiment always of quite a
different opinion. A great English Veterinary Surgeon,
Mr. GEORGE FLEMING, C.B., LL.D., F.R.C.V.S., wrote in
the Lancet, April 7th, 1888, as follows :~

“A great difﬁculty we meet with is that, while we can experi-
ment upon animals to prove the transmissibility of the malady
from one to another, we cannot do so with regard to the human
species. It has struck me that we sometimes waste human life (I)
that we throw away very good opportunities for experiment by the
manner in which we dispose of our criminals. I think no better
use could be made of those condemned to death than by experi-
menting on them in this direction. We know that if animals be
fed for a certain time with tuberculous matter certain alterations
will take place in their bodies, although they may appear to be in
perfect health. I do not know Whether the hyper-sentimental
people, the extreme moralists of this country, would tolerate such
a proceeding, but I do think that criminals who so far offend
against society as to take away human life should be thus made to
atone to society Whose moral principles they have violated.
Feeding, or even inoculating, such criminals with the products of
tuberculous animals in order to discover whether, after execution,
such matters have produced in them the pathological alterations
noticed in creatures so treated, would decisively, and for ever,
solve a most serious sanitary problem.” *

We have now seen what French and German medical men
of high distinction—one of them the adviser of Emperors and

* The above paragraph is extracted from Church Bells, May 4th,
1888. Mr. FLEMING was principal Veterinary Surgeon at Head
Quarters from 1882 to 1890, but has since retired. He was
author of the Essay against Vivisection to which the R.S.P.C.A.
granted its celebrated Prize 30 years ago.

 




 

 

h-“

15

Princes—have admittedly done to their unhappy patients in A
the public Hospitals, and which the most eminent of English W ‘3
Veterinarians advises should be done to criminals,——not as
an alternative to the death penalty but as an aggravation of
punishment in the interests of science."<

The whole disgraceful story may be ﬁttingly wound up by
the record in the British Medical Journal of the detection of
the French Cancer-Grafter. The number of the subjects of
this unspeakably cruel wrong has not transpired, but one
familiar “ Note ” of the character of the Vivisector —~namely,
unhesitatingiand unblushing mendacity, is curiously marked.
Dr. DOYEN, the Cancer-Grafter, published, it will be seen, a
Letter in the public journals in which he attempted to justify
his action when detected by asserting that the cancerous
matter which he employed to inoculate his patient, had been
attenuated so as to form a vaccine. The President of the
Rheims Medical Society obtained proof that the grafted
fragments had not been submitted to any process calculated
to attenuate their virulence. ‘

Here is the report of Dr. DOYEN’s identiﬁcation from the
British illedical Journal :—

 

The name of M. DOYEN, of Rheims, was, at the time of
M. CORNIL’S communication to the Academy of Medicine, coupled
with the experiment described in it. Since then a great deal has
been said and written concerning the affair, as to which nothing
hasbeen said in the British Medical Journal, because it bore more
or less the character of gossip; but at the present moment these
rumours have taken a deﬁnite form and hear an ofﬁcial character.
The President of the Rheims Hospital Medical and Surgical
Society has investigated the matter, and sent in his report to the
Prefect of the Marne Department, Who has forwarded it to the
Minister of the Interior. The President of the above-mentioned

 

* It may be noted here that when the Vivisection of the lower l
animals has to be defended, it is always assumed that they so
closely resemble mankind that it is safe to argue from what
happens to a dog or a rabbit to what will happen under the same
conditions to a man. In the present case, the vivisection of human
beings is demanded because we cannot otherwise be sure that What
happens to the beast holds good of man.

 

 




 

 

 

16

medical society ascertained from the testimony of seven eye
witnesses that M. DOYEN grafted on the healthy breasts of patients
a fragment of cancerous tissue removed from the opposite breast.
He made a slight incision in order to introduce the fragment, and
closed the wound with sutures. M. DOYEN, in a letter published a
week or two ago, admitted having grafted fragments of cancerous
tissue, which had been rendered less virulent in order to act as a
vaccine. The President, however, has obtained proof that the
fragments grafted on to the healthy breasts of cancerous patients
had not been submitted to any process calculated to attenuate
their virulence. The patients on whom these experiments were
made were under the inﬂuence of chloroform.—British Medical
Journal, August 29th, 1891.

Thus the very worst, most cowardly, most cruel treachery
which the mind of man or of ﬁend could devise, has been
proved to have been used against the helpless and conﬁding
patients in the public hospitals of France and Germany.
Nor was this done by obscure and irresponsible practitioners
but by doctors of the highest reputation, who, even after
the detection of their crimes, have remained the trusted
advisers of Emperors and Princes.

That equally atrocious experiments have not been tried by
English doctors in English hospitals, or by any of those
numerous foreigners who hold licences for vivisection in
England, we have no means of assuring ourselves. But
superabundant reason appears to exist why no humane person
who has the interests of the suffering poor at heart should
support any hospital wherein members of the Vivisecting
Clique hold positions which may enable them to treat the
patients as VERSUCHSTHIERE and carryout at their expense
their “ great designs ” for the advancement of Science.

 

Printed for FRANCES POWER COBBE, Hengwrt, Dolgelly, by
PEWTRESS & 00., 28, Little Queen Street, London, W0.

 




 

 




 




