WHO ARE
THE KlLL- JOYS?

BY HENRY Si. SALT.

It is a grave charge that is brought against us
humanitarians, of “ spoiling other people’s pleasure.”
We are reproachfully bidan to look at “ﬁeld sports,” for
instance, and to ponder all the manifold enjoyment which
they provide for their votaries—the pleasure of the riders,
the pleasure of the hounds, the pleasure of the horses, the
pleasure (some aSSert) even of the fox himself—or, if
not exactly pleasure, at least a praiseworthy acquiescence
in the role assigned him as the purveyor of amusement
for others; for has he not purchased the happiness of a
lifetime at the cost of this brief hour of pain? And all
this sum of pleasure the humanitarian would deliberately
destroy! N 0 wonder that speculation is rife among
sportsmen as to any intelligible reason for such malice.
Are humanitarians insane? Or is it a dog-in-the-manger
instinct that prompts them to wreck a pleasure in which
they themselves—poor joyless creatures that they are——
can have no part?

We shall be expected, perhaps, in answer to these

accusations, to plead some austere and weighty reasons,

such as the danger of an excess of pleasure, the need
of self-sacrifice, the duty of altruism, and the like. We
do nothing of the kind. On the contrary, we point out
that humanitarians seek not to diminish but to increase
the pleasures of which life is capable; for it is precisely
because we, too, love pleasure, and regard it, when rightly
understood, as the sum and purport of existence, that
we deplore the absurd travesty of it which at present
passes muster among the thoughtless. Our complaint
against the sportsman and his like is not that they enjoy

 




 

themselves, but that they prevent other persons from
doing so, through their very rudimentary and barbarous
notions of what enjoyment means.

Consider, for instance, the exquisite pleasure, surely
one of the greatest joys in life, of seeing perfect
confidence and fearlessness in the beings around one—
the intrepidity which is the special charm of children,
when well-treated, and which is characteristic of animals
also, in the rare cases when. they have nothing to fear
from man. We know with what child-like trust and
guilelessness the primitive inhabitants of the West Indies
greeted their Spanish discoverers, and how the wild
animals in newly—found lands have often shown the same
unguarded friendliness to man, until they knew better—-
or worse. The pleasure of the humanitarian consists in
preserving and cherishing to the uttermost this friendly
relationship; the pleasure of the sportsman consists in
rending and shattering it, in making a hell out of a
heaven, and in sowing distrust and terror where there
might be conﬁdence and love. It is useless to dispute
about tastes. But that the sportsman should denounce the
humanitarian as being “ a spoiler of pleasure ” is a stroke
of unintended humour from a very humourless source.

The part which the sportsman plays in the animal world
——-that world which might be a source of much genuine
pleasure to us——may be easily pictured if we look at one
of the London parks where the bird-life is protected.
There we see a truce reigning between human and non—
human, with a vast amount of obvious human enjoyment
as the result. Imagine what would happen if a man were
to turn a gun on the unsuspecting animals, and pride
himself on the dexterity with which he reduced them from
beautiful living creatures to limp and dreary carcases.
He would be arrested as a lunatic, you. say, by the park-
keepers. True; yet that is exactly the way in which the

. K
4:!

 




ii

,;

 

sportsman is continually running amuck in this larger
park of ours, the world, where unfortunately there are
as yet few park-keepers to restrain him.

Nor is it only the sportsman, but everyone addicted to
cruel practices of any sort, who makes the world a poorer
and less happy place to live in. Centuries of persecution
have, in fact, left so little real happiness in life that men
have been fain to content themselves with these wretched
beggarly amusements, which, from bull—baiting to stag—
hunting, have disgraced our national sports from time
immemorial, yet have always been defended on the
ludicrous ground that their abolition would diminish the
pleasures of the people. Indeed, almost all the arguments
now put forward in this connection by the devotees of
“ field-sports ” were formerly urged by the defenders of
cock-ﬁghting and bull-, bear- and badger—baiting, etc.,
against the abolition of those popular British pastimes.

Who, then, are the kill-joys? Surely not the opponents
of blood-sports, whose desire it is that there should be
far greater and wider means of enjoyment than at present,
and who, far from discouraging the sports of the people,
would gladly see established in every part of the land
more facilities for manly and wholesome recreations, such
as cricket, football, rowing, swimming, and all kinds of
athletic and gymnastic exercises. To humanitarians,
pleasure—real pleasure—is the one precious thing; and it
is just because there is so little real pleasure in the present
conditions of life that we desire to see those conditions
changed and ameliorated. Why else should we “agitate,”
write letters to newspapers, and organize public meetings
to expound our principles? Certainly not because we
enjoy such occupation in itself, for a more thankless task
could scarcely be imagined; but because life is at present
so narrowed and saddened by brutalitarian stupidity that
to try to alter it, even in the smallest measure, is to us a
necessary condition of any enjoyment at all.

 




 

 

NATIONAL SOCIETY
FOR THE ABOLITION
OF CRUEL SPORTS.

JOIN THE SOCIETY AND
HELP TO END THE CUSTOM
OF KILLING FOR AMUSEMENT.

INFORMATION FROM THE SECRETARY:
4 TAVISTOCK SQUARE,
LONDON, W.C.I.

Minimum subscription 2/6. Donations urgently needed.

 

Price Id., or 25 copies for 1/-

 

 

Prz‘ntéd by Kent 69° Malthews, 122%., Wandsworz‘lz Road, S.W.8

 

 




