 

 

 

 

 

 

 

August, 1938 Price 3d.

THE

ANIMALS

,S, M arriotﬂ “ ng/jc‘il‘y Aime ” [Bromley Camera

THE NATIONAL COUNCIL FOR ANIMALS’ WELFARE
l FEATHERSTONE BUILDINGS, HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, \V.C.l
Subscription for One Year, poﬂ free, 3/6

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND is publisloed montlolj lo} tbe National Council for Animals’ Welfare at
Feat/Jerstone 'Buildings, Higli Holborn, London, W. C. I , and all communication: regarding fl):
magazine sbould be addressed to tbe Editor

 

 

Editor: ROBERT H. SPURRIER.
Vol. XLIV August, 1938 No. 10
C O N T E N T S.
Page Page
CONFERENCE REPORT. T/oe Editor 528 THROUGH THE EYES OF A DOG-LOVER
MARTIN OF GALWAY. Basil Harogr— F7477”! T- WW”- - - 543
james . . . . . 529 ANIMAL WELFARE \Y/EEK : REPORTS (con-
“ FULMAR FLYING FREE ” 330 cluded.) . 344
BIRDS IN EGYPT. Teresa Hooley 351 NATIONAL SOCIETY FOR ABOLITION OF
ANIMALS IN MANCHESTER. E. G. Barlow 352 ‘CRUEL SPORTS 346
HEDGEHOGS NEAR THE SEA, W’g'm‘ﬂgd SCOTTISH SOCIETY FOR PREVENTION OF
Gra/mm W’i/son . ‘ . , 555 VIVISECTION . . 547
ON WITH THE CIRCUS! Qint/oia Massty— ANIMAL WELFARE SOCIETY OF SOUTH '
Coo/ée . . . . 355 AFRICA . 548
FROM ONLOOKER’S NOTE BOOK. Ole/00kg)" 536 LEAGUE FOR PROHIBITION 0F CRUEL
GWENOL SATOW. Basil Harney—fames 558 SPORTS ~ - 349
AN AUGUST DAY. Hudson Read . 339 PIT PONIES’ PROTECTIONSOCIETY . 550
THE LIBRARY TABLE 540 HUMANE' EDUCATION SOCIETY 55 I
THE CLEVER COYOTE 542 CORRESPONDENCE 352

 

 

I.C.W.———Important Decision.

As we go to press we are informed by Captain C. W.
Hume that the following resolution proposed by the
National Council Of Women of the Netherlands
at the Conference of the International Council Of
Women, which has just ﬁnished its meeting in Edin-
burgh, was passed after a good ﬁght in which much
credit is due to Mrs. Massingham of the R.S.P.C.A.,
and Miss Challen of the University of London Animal
Welfare Society. The resolution reads: A

That the I.C.W. shall include the question of the
protection of animals and their legal status in the
programme Of work Of the Committees with
which it may be concerned.

This is a notable decision. .

International League for the PrOtection of
Horses.

As we go to presswe have received from Sir George
Cockerill, the Director of the above League, a copy of the
Bill “ to provide for the registration andinSpection of
riding establishments, and for other purposes connected
therewith,” presented by Captain Heilgers and ordered,
by the House of Commons, to be printed, 28th June,
1938. Writing of this Bill the Daily Sketcl) reporter on
the 15th inst. pointed out that : “ Horses stumbling

blindly into their boxes, overworked, with backs sore
and mouths chafed by inexperienced hands will be
protected by the Bill tO be introduced in the House of
Commons on Monday by Captain F. Heilgers. Thousands
more peOple are riding today than in the early days of
the motor—car. Riding schools have been overwhelmed
by the demand for hacks. And it is the horses that
have suffered. We shall hope to refer to this Bill again
(to which we wish good luck) in a subsequent issue of
THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND.

The Animal Pictorial.

The second issue of this new magazine—«the July
issue—is an admirable production in every way, and
shows a considerable advance in interest and production
on the first issue which was commended in these pages
in our last issue. The illustrations in particular are
beautifully produced, and there are many more Of
them, covering a much wider range of interest. Among
the contributors are Col. Badcock, L. F. Easterbrook,
H. W. Longden, Harper Cory, Ray Palmer, J. F. Morton,
Lady Kitty Ritson and W. J. Oliver. The problem of
Vivisection is discussed by Major A. N. M. Swanston
and Captain Guy Coleridge, R.N., Director of the
National Anti-Vivisection Society. Jim Duckworth,
the Coster “ King,” writes on “ All I know about
Donkeys,” and there is an article on The Ada Cole
Memorial Stables at South Mimms.

326

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Au gust, I 938

Notes and Comments

“ Patient Won’t Leave Nurse.”

Under the above title the News Clironicle published
on the 19th inst. a charming illustration of a sparrow
perched on the steering
wheel of a motor car,
which is being driven
by an attractive young
lady. The caption
reads: “ Picked up
three weeks ago in
Ilford, nursed to
Health in the People’s
Dispensary for Sick
Animals sanatorium,
a young sparrow re-
fuses to leave his
nurse. Here is the
bird going for a ride
with his attend—
. ant,,,

Children are Imitators.

The following is extracted from T/ye Dogs’ Bulletin,
issued by the National Canine Defence League under
the editorship of Mr. C. R. Johns. ’

“ In an outlying district of a country town in Surrey a
favourite pastime of the children is to try to make, the
local cats perform like circus animals. An observant
resident tells us that the children go to a circus which
visits the place once a year and are ﬁlled with a desire to
emulate animal trainers. Cats being the only available
substitutes for lions and tigers, they torment every
local cat and makes their lives a misery. This phe—
nomenon is particularly rampant just after the visit of
the circus. Some of the local teachers try to persuade
the children not to visit the circus, but the parents
frequently assume a combative attitude so that the
schools have to be closed on the afternoon of the
performance. In this particular town a vast amount
of educational work is done in schools by local animal
lovers, but apparently the desire to show mastery over
the animals is difficult to eradicate.”

The Little Owl.

We have received from Miss Alice Hibbert-Ware a
print of an excellent leaﬂet prepared by her to show the
results of the inquiry into the food habits of the
Little Owl which she undertook in 1956-1937 under the
auSpices of the British Trust for Ornithology. In this
leaﬂet the writer aims at answering by means of the
direct result of recent research the main accusations that
have been made against the Little Owl. The direct
result of the Inquiry, based on food material sent from
37 counties and 87 localities—an Inquiry perhaps more
searching than any inquiry previously held into the food
habits of a species—is that the Little Owl has a ﬁxed
regular diet, and that this diet consists of invertebrates
and rodents—the invertebrates including earwigs,
daddy longlegs, cockchafters, dor beetles and carabids,
click beetles, and various weevils; and the rodents,
voles, young rats, mice and small rabbits. On the
point as to whether the Little Owl is a serious menace
to game and poultry chicks—to such a degree as to
cancel its undoubted usefulness in destrOying rodent
and insect pests—the answer, judging from the records
of two seasons, is an emphatic no. Those who would
like to know more about the matter and the evidence

327

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

may obtain copies of the leaﬂet by applying with a
stamped addressed envelope to Miss Hibbert—\Ware,
Hilary, Girton, Cambridge. A Show—case in the
gallery of the South Kensington Natural History
Museum has also been prepared, in order to exhibit
samples of the food remains on which the conclusions
of the Inquiry were based.

Hawksley Society.

In his July notes “ Onlooker ” quoted from Tbe
Animal Lore of Shakespeare’s Time by Emma Phipson.
The reference produced the following letter from Mr.
Leonard Hawksley, whose work for the Protec-
tion of Animals and Birds in Italy is well known to
our readers :—

I am much interested to see in THE ANIMALS’
FRIEND your quotations from “ Animal Lore in
Shakespeare’s Time,” wliicli was written by my late
aunt, Emma Pliz'pson, in 1883.

I [rope you will see your way to making one or two
extracts from her nephew’s report for 19 57 of which I
enclose a copy.

A short notice of this report will be found on page,
354 of this issue. .

“ The Winged Messenger.”

We have received the July—September issue of this-
magazine issued by the R.S.P.C.A. Caged Bird Poster
Fund of which Miss M. Bradish is the well-known:
Hon. Secretary. This issue contains the radio talk.
given by Mrs. Lindsay—Blee in the Children’s Hour on:
May 9th last, and news about the “ Flying School”
and of the treatment of birds at home and abroad.

The Searing of Lamb’s tails.

We have been asked by Alderman Alfred Rose, of
Aylesbury, to call attention to a motion standing in
his name which was agreed to at a meeting of the
Bucks County Committee of the R.S.P.C.A. The
motion is as follows:

That this committee urge the government to
pass legislation to prevent the torture, which is
still administered on many farms, of searing lambs’
tails after cutting with a hot iron and ask that this
shall be made illegal, and that tails shall not be
cut oﬂ after the lambs are one week old, in which
case searing would be unnecessary to prevent
over—bleeding.

Alderman Rose remarks that it was thought by some
that legislation should be asked for to prohibit cutting

altogether, but that this would meet with such strong-

opposition that it would never become law, whereas if
cutting within a week of birth and no searing is pressed
for “ this should become effectual and reduce cruelty
to a minimum.” Tails, continues our correspondent,
are to brush away the ﬂy that blows maggots, but just
because this practice is traditional and farmers do not-
think for themselves, the cruel practice is continued.

We wish Alderman Rose all success and hope that our
readers will do all to help to banish this cruel practice
from our midst.

“ The Goldwyn Follies.”

The Secretary of the National Council for Animals’
Welfare has been informed by the solicitors of United
Artists Ltd, that they are proposing to sue the Council
in respect of the article entitled “ The Goldwyn
Follies of 1938 ” which appeared in THE ANIMALS’
FRIEND of December, 1937, last. It should be an.
instructive and interesting suit.

A2

 

 




 

THE ANIMALS” FRIEND

August, 1936’

Conference Report

BY THE EDITOR.

N informal con—
Aference of repre-

sentatives of a
number of animal pro-
section and welfare
societies, convened by
the National Council
for Animals’ \Velfare,
was held in the Court
Room, Caxton Hall, on
July Ist.

    

The Conference was
called to con—
sider :—

\\/I/

(a) To what extent joint consideration of matters
of moment (legislation, overlapping in various
directions, etc.), is desirable and practicable,
with a view to unified effort, and what steps can
wisely be taken to secure such measure of co-
operative consideration and uniﬁed action as may be
deemed advisable by the Conference;

and

(b) To receive and consider the report and data
on Small Animal Euthanasia the preparation of
which had been undertaken by the Royal Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, and in
which the co—operation of other interested societies
had been invited.

Invitations to be present were extended to
and accepted by, officials and members of the
staffs of some 20 societies, and representatives
of 17 societies numbering 35 in all were
present.

. The ground for the Conference had been
prepared, as the Chairman, Mr. R. H. Spurrier,
explained, by the two informal luncheons
given by Capt. MacCunn (the first to promote
the idea of a closer liaison betWeen the respec-
tive societies and the second to consider the
question of small animal euthanasia); by a
conference of representatives of societies
specially concerned in the question of Vivi—
section convened by the National Anti—
Vivisection Society and by several limited
co—operative efforts in which Our Dumb
Friends’ League, the National Society for the
Abolition of Cruel Sports and the National
Council for Animals’ Welfare had combined.

It was generally agreed at the Conference

that the extent to which joint consideration of
matters of moment was desirable and prac—
ticable depended largely upon the measure of
goodwill, good faith and desire for better
understanding that existed between the various
societies, and the degree to which the general
interest of animals could he put before the
interests of the respective societies. Without
a fairly generous measure of these essential
factors to effective co—operative effort, it was
agreed that little progress was likely to be
made.

The general result of the discussion was to
disclose a widespread and genuine desire for
better understanding and several practical
proposals, including one for the establishment
of a central clearing house for the pooling of
information, the notification of proposed
activities or extension of activities, projected
legislation and publications, and another for
quarterly or half—yearly meetings between
representatives of the staffs of societies inter—
ested were made, and are under consideration.
A joint committee was also appointed to
consider matters relating to and arising out
of the report on Euthanasia of Animals pre—
sented to the Conference by Captain MacCunn.

Representatives of the Staffs of the following
societies accepted invitations to the Confer—
ence. The societies are arranged in alphabetical
order 2—— -

Animals’ Help Society.

Battersea Dogs’ Home.

British Union for Abolition of Vivisection.

Caged Bird Poster Fund, R.S.P.C.A.

Cats’ Protection League.

Hampstead Society for Protection of Animals.
International League for the Protection of Horses.
League for Prohibition of Cruel Sports.

National Anti—Vaccination League.

National Anti—Vivisection Society.

National Canine Defence League.

National Council for Animals’ Welfare.

National Society for Abolition of Cruel Sports.
Our Dumb Friends’ League.

Pit Ponies Protection Society.

ROyal Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
United Humanitarian League.

University of London Animal Welfare Society.
World League against Vivisection.

328

”(i-WA _

V—

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

August, I 938

Martin of Galway
(1754-1834)

BY BASIL HARVEY—JAMES.

T has been my endeavour to spread my
I canvas over all races and times in portray-
ing the lives, work and writings of the
Champions of animals’ rights and the pioneers
of their welfare and of our kinship with them.
I have had my natural limits as an individual
——knowing poets better than writers of prose,
and literary men better than active workers
who were not writers. Perhaps I shall make
some redress in treating of Richard Martin,
who brought in the ﬁrst measure in any
country to protect animals by legislation.

Martin’s is a name ﬁt to stand with those of
Samuel Romilly, Josephine Butler, Granville
Sharp and Lord Shaftesbury as one who
first brought notice to a speciﬁc social evil,
and gave his life to combating it.

Those who wish to know more of Richard
Martin cannot do better than read his bio—
graphy by Wellesley Pain. It is noteworthy
that he was an Irishman, and having given
sundry sketches of distinguished English and
Scottish zoophilists, it is with real pleasure that
I turn to that third part of our islands, whether
it goes by the name of “ Eire,” “ Free State ”
or just Ireland.

Richard Martin was elected Member for
Galway in I8oo—the ﬁrst Parliament after
the Union of Great Britain and Ireland. In that
year Sir W’illiam Pulteney introduced a Bill to
prohibit bull—baiting, which was supported
by Sheridan, Wilberforce and a very few
others, but never got to its second reading.

Pulteney, with the support of Sheridan,
Martin and \Wilberforce, tried again in 1802.
Two of the Bill’s most formidable opponents
were William \Windham, secretary for
War, and Canning, who however after—
wards modiﬁed his views. This second
Bill was likewise rejected by the Com—
mons.

The next step came from the House of
Lords. In 1809, Lord Erskine, Lord
Chancellor, introduced a Bill there for
“ Preventing \Wanton and Malicious _
Cruelty to Animals,” which would have
given legal protection to “any horse,
mare, mule, ass, ox, cow, sheep, or
swine.” At its second reading Lord
Erskine made his famous speech on

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

behalf of animals, and the Bill paSsed through
the Lords.

In spite of the earnest support of Sir Samuel
Romilly (and, of course, Martin) the Bill was
thrown out by the Commons. In 1812 Martin
lost his seat, and did not return to Parliament
until 1818. During these siX years a Stage
Coaches Bill, designed mainly to prevent
accidents, but which, if passed, would have
saved horses some cruelty, was introduced.
The Commons again rejected yet another
humane measure.

It seemed after eighteen years that the
humanitarians in Parliament had achieved
nothing. But perhaps more was red/bl, done
in those years than in any subsequent years.
Patience in adversity is the veritable seed of
success, and to be thwarted is a necessary
corollary of the growth of progress. And if
we get downhearted now, let us ponder on
those eighteen years.

At the end of them, Richard Martin returned
to the Commons, as Mr. Pain describes him
“ an optimist, a born ﬁghter, and a man of
extraordinary energy.” Four years later (1822),
his Bill became Law. That is as Kipling
said “ another story,” and with “ Martin’s
Act ” and his further efforts in and out of
the House on behalf of the animals it is not my
province here to deal.

It has rather been my intention to ﬁll in the
background a little, which will give an object-
lesson to all workers for animal welfare.
Wherever there is work to be done on behalf
of animals, let us not forget the early struggles
of Pulteney, Erskine and Martin of Galway.

And it is Richard Martin who is especially
and more particularly the ancestor of Animals’
\Velfare \Week, and of all that this paper is and
for which it stands.

  

”EVAN JAMES

.. __ -g-‘Z f;_;;;4~ML._’J~m

 

 




 

THE ANIMALS' FRIEND

 

Photo by] Sktnznzz'ng the Surface.

“ F ulmar Flying Free ”

“ Thou’rt free ! Thou’rt free l”

HE Fulmar is a Petrel. Petrel is the
general name of a group of sea-birds to
which the albatrosses, shearwaters and
petrels proper belong. The name—a diminu-
tive of Peter—~is derived from the habit which
some petrels have of walking apparently on
the surface of the water as St. Peter is recorded
to have done, the lightness of its body enabling

 

Photo by]

Fulmar in Flight.

3

August, 1936’

it to skim up and down the
waves, even in a storm,
with only enough motion
of the wings to keep the
webbed—feet from sinking
under the surface.

All petrels proper have
strong hooked bills; the
general appearance is gull
like; the wings long and the
ﬂight powerful. The illustra—
tions on this page are of the
Fulmar Petrel. The fulmar
is about the size of a duck
and has the general colouring
of the common gull. It is
well known to our sailors
as the “ Molly Mawk,”
which, with a beautiful glid-
ing flight, follows whalers
and other vessels after they
get north of Shetland. It
visits land only to deposit its single white
egg. This is laid on a rocky ledge on which
a shallow nest is made in the turf and lined
with a little dried grass.

The common storm petrel, which to the eye
has the look of a swift or swallow, is the bird
known to sailors as “ Mother Carey’s chicken.”
This bird is usually widely believed to be the
harbinger of bad weather. It is the bird
described by Theodore \Watts Dunton :—

That walked the hz'llon/s, while thy “ sweet—

sn/eet—snteet ”

[Richard Perry

Proelaz'rned the tempest nigh.

Who neoer save in stress of
angrz'est hlast,

Asked ship for shelter—never
all at last

The foam—flakes hurled against
the sloping mast

S lashed thee like
glaz'oes.

whirling

Hts horne I know : ’tz's where the
winds are strong—

Where, on a throne of hillon/s,
rolling hoary

And green and hlue and splashed
with sunny glory,

Far, far from shore— r0771
farthest promontory——

Pro phetz'e Nature hares the
secret of the story
That holds the spheres in sonv.

[Richard Perry

30

0 -s.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

VWWW

W,.




 

 

August, I 938

Birds in Egypt

BY TERESA HOOLEY.

THE heron, grey as evening mist, alighted

smoothly as water in the afternoon sun-

light on the mud—fringe of a pond. “ I’ll
just look in at the kingﬁsher’s before I go
home,” he thought. But another moment
proved to him that the kingﬁsher was out.
He saw a vivid ﬂash of turquoise and copper
ﬂy across the pond, closely followed by a
similar ﬂash.

“Courting, is it?” he said to himself.
“ Two’s company, then. I’m off.”

“ Tinkle, tinkle,” twittered the pied wagtail,
jumping up into the air, and looping the loop
as he caught a ﬂy. “ Flit, ﬂit ; tinkle, tinkle.”

“ That’s that, that’s that, that’s that,” came
the husky voice of a little grey bird out of the
sugar-cane, pretending that he was a stonechat
among the gorse bushes of Somerset. Plover,
black and white, ﬂew over with a cry “like
the sound of wandering sorrow”; but the
hoopoe, gold—crowned, plumaged like a Notts
County footballer, never looked up from his
ground foraging. He took no notice even when
the egrets—those splendid agriculturists—ﬂew
from home together, white as the ﬁrst English
snowdrops, their little legs folded tidily and
horizontally behind them as they ﬂew. The
shrill twitter of the kites, as they circled like
black specks high overhead,was of too common
occurrence to provoke interest. But the snipe,
had he cared to look in that direction, was well
worth his attention. The mini—
mum of. tail, the jerky little steps
of long legs, the never—ceasing
dig of the grotesque length of.
beak into the luscious mud!
And what mud! Ideally cool
and comforting wherein to rest
and sit deep when one had
caught and eaten one’s ﬁll.
To—day only one snipe was
visible, though the dippers,
busy all about him, knew that
on an afternoon last week there
had been twenty or more.

The clippers paddled and
strutted, not caring who watched
them; the terns were equally
bold. They did not try to
understand the shyness of the
snipe, nor the mysterious

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

wildness of the Nile ducks. The ducks’
ways were not their ways. They did not
ﬂy in arrow—headed squadrons, with a great
shout of wings and with a sentry in the van to
point out danger. They knew, as the ducks
knew, that if you were ﬂying south and the
wind was behind you you were obliged to turn
round and land into wind—unless you wanted
to capsize. They shared, too, with the ducks
the joy of speed in ﬂight. But they were
content to be terns. They had no desire to
be duck, or Nile geese, or ﬂamingo ;_ any more
than the black and white Nile kingﬁsher had
any envy of the rainbow bird of gold and
azure that was his rich relation.

The bee—eater—a glory of emerald wings
undershot with bronze, and with a long and
slender rudder to his tail for steering—was
far too busy getting his living to worry about
the aﬂairs of anyone else; and so was the
swallow. Only the little brown owl on the
stones of the river bank sat looking out in
wise meditation, probably compiling statistics
as to the number of frogs in ﬂood time; or
wondering why he was an owl, and why it
could not be night all day. He looked up as
the heron ﬂew home.

“ Saida,” he hooted, in good-night greeting.
“ Lail tak said,” politely answered the heron.

“ The Animals’ Friend ” at “ The Playhouse.”

Our readers will be interested to hear that at the
Playhouse on June 16th Miss Teresa Hooley appeared
with Miss Nancy Price and read her poem printed in
Onlooker’s Note Book in our June issue.

 

Tern—taken in Holland.

331

- .7 _ _____. «.w- . _..._._..,-

 

 

 

 




 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

August, [938

Animals in Manchester

By P. G.

huge, dismal, dirty, depressing industrial

town—far removed from any natural
state. For the readers of THE ANIMALS’
FRIEND who know the industrial north,
these brief notes bearing on animals in
Manchester’s past will be of interest.

1 5 24. Animals sold at the following prices :
a horse £2 43; an ox £1 15; a cow 15s. 6d;
a sheep or a hog 5s; a calf 4s. 1d; a cock 3d;
and a hen 2d.

1572. Ofﬁcers appointed to see that the
swine in the streets be sent to Collyhurst.
They had a depot there for all pigs that were at
large, and also for the keeping of pigs.

1578. The churchwardens of Manchester
demanded £9 from the inhabitants “ for
destroying crowes.”

1579. An assembly of Ecclesiastical Com—
missioners, held at Manchester, “issued
a mandate against pipers and minstrels making
and frequenting bear—baiting and bull—baiting
on the Sabbath days, or upon other days.”

1664—1711. The MS. book of the Man—
chester Churchwarden’s Accounts covering
these years mentions payment for the destruc—
tion of “ vermin.” The law of 1566 was in
force, a law which made obligatory the
destruction of rooks, hawks, polecats, badgers,
foxs, moles, rats, otters, hedgehogs, and
many other unfortunate animals. IS. each
was paid for a badger’s or a fox’s head, 2d. for
a hedgehog, %d. for a mole, and Id. for a rook
or a )ay. -

1750. Kersal Moor races established. Dr.
John Byron, in a pamphlet which he published,
strongly censured them.

1741.
engine with rollers
asses. ”

1938 sees the centenary of Manchester, a

John Wyatt constructed a spinning
“ turned by two or more

1754. A horse—drawn “ flying coach ” left
Manchester and arrived in London in 4% days
“ barring accidents.” Six years later the
journey was made in 5 days “if God permit.”
England still remained the “ horse’s hell ”
as a German writer had described it in 1599.

178 3. Two gentlemen fought a duel with
swords in a tavern and one was killed. The

BARLow.

quarrel originated over the respective qualities
of two dogs.

1785. The magistrates authorise the con—
stables to prevent cock-fighting and the
thrawing of cocks during Shrove Tide.
February 15th.

1786. A main of cocks was fought at
the Royal Exchange between the gentlemen
of Lancashire and Cheshire for g 5 a battle
and £200 the main. It lasted 5 days.

1797. Mr. Cross’s collection of wild ani—
mals “ the largest collection of wild animals
extant ” visited Manchester and Salford.

1803. A firm of carriers owned over 400
horses.
1807. The payment of cock money abol—

ished by the feoﬂees of the Free Grammar
School.

1819. The Manchester Racecourse “very
much improved.”

1821. Celebration of the coronation of
George IV. “ In the afternoon the following
article; were given away, viz., 25 oxen,
60 sheep, 29,000 pounds of bread, and 400
barrels strong ale.”

1821. A colony of rooks established them—
selves in a small garden at the top of King
Street.

1824. The Mersey and Irwell Navigation
Go, presented to the Manchester Museum
the head of “ Old Billy,” a horse which had
been in their service 62 years.

1854. The Theatre Royal opened with
circus performances.

1 8 37. Zoological Gardens, Higher Brough—
ton, opened.
1845. Mr. Van Amburgh’s stud of trained

animals sold by auction.

1850. The number of horses in Manchester
and Salford is given as : 1,300 private carriage
horses, 387 omnibus horses, 974 riding horses,
2,108 draught horses, 408 hackney coach
horses, making a total of 4,769 horses.

1851. A fox was caught in a lane adjoining
Peel Park, Salford, having been hunted by
men and dogs out of the park.

18 5 2. A vegetarian banquet held in Salford
Town Hall, July 22nd.

1 871. _An English viper, 2 feet 2 inches long
found in a coal cellar in the Hulme.

332

W‘W




 

‘5WW'W ' — ' ' ' V

 

 

A ugml, I 938

Hedgehogs near. the Sea

BY WINIFRED GRAHAM \X’ILSON. .

HERE must, I think, be a large number

of hedgehogs in this district. They have

been seen in all sorts of unexpected
places by the children I have in my Biology
class at a school in Colwyn Bay. Modern
conditions must be urbanising the hedgehogs
in the area, for they seem not to mind roads
and houses at all.

The main North Wales road passes through
Colwyn Bay in a direction roughly parallel
to the sea. Buses, tramcars, transport wagons
as well as private motor cars make it a terribly
noisy and busy thoroughfare. Running off
from this road at right angles are several.
shorter .roads leading up to fields and wood-
lands. For Colwyn Bay is backed by a ridge of
some two or three hundred feet in height on
which grow lovely woods. From these
woodlands the hedgehogs seem to pass
downwards to the more thickly populated
parts.

One, for instance, made a habit of visiting
a garden in one of these side roads every
evening. It was fed one night on bread and
milk. The bread and milk became a habit and
the hedgehog came each night for several
weeks. Then it ceased coming, only to
reappear some weeks later, with its family as
well. Yet the particular

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

known of several hedgehogs visiting gardens
there. One made its headquarters for a time
in the grounds of the Rhos Boys’ School,
not more than four hundred yards from the sea.
Another hedgehog was found this summer
actually inside the dining room of a house
which stands very near the sea. There is a
small garden separating it from the Marine
Drive, then a low stone wall, after which
comes the shingle. Sometimes at very high
tides the sea actually washes over the wall
into the garden.

Quite how this hedgehog came to be there
is a puzzle. The room has a french window,
so perhaps it got in while the window was
open, then hid under a couch or big chair,
only to come out later to be found close by
the locked and bolted window.

When I ﬁrst came to this district I lived
west of Rhos—on—Sea at Penrhyn Bay, not far
from the Little Orme. Though the Orme is
limestone the low cliffs are clay, and there is a
wide strip of clay between the Bay and the
hills which ﬂank and back this little district.
In the garden we used to keep a wide circular
glass dish of water at the edge of the lawn.
In the day birds drank from it and bathed in it ;
wasps also frequently drank there, resting on
the rim and dipping their tongues down into
the water.

A brown rat used to come and drink there
in the evenings, until the nearby hen farmer

 

garden which the hedge—
hog visited was not more
than a hundred yards or so
from the main road.
Neither the children nor
I have ever seen a hedge-
hog cross that terribly
busy main road, nor have
we ever seen a hedgehog
lying dead as the result
of a motor accident,
as one so often does
on more rural motor roads.
But somehow or other
a hedgehog has crossed
that road, for one visits
another garden every-
evening; and that garden
lies between the main
road and the sea.
Going westwards from

We

 

 

 

 

Colwyn Bay, Rhos-on-

, Photo by]
Sea is reached. I have

[Eric ]. Hoskmg, F.R.P.5.
Hedge/Jog. ,

333

 

 

 




 

THE ’ANIMALS’ FRIEND

caught it in a trap. One evening at dusk
a hedgehog came and drank from the dish.
It came again for many evenings, then suddenly
its visits ceased. We watched and found it
always went away in the same direction:
slantwise into a ﬁeld which bordered on the
sea. There were blackberry bushes there in
thick tangles, gorsebushes and blackthorn as
well,'so that there would be plenty of cover.

Arthur R. Thomson in his book Nature by
Nigbi‘ implies that there are large numbers of
hedgehogs in North W’ales. This one gathers
from the fact that he actually saw as many
as a hundred and fifty hedgehogs strung up
on a game keeper’s wire in that district.
Certain it is that there are many in this par-
ticular area. Migrating from the rural to the
more populated parts means passing from the
upper limestone areas down to the ﬂatter
Clay districts near the sea. \Whether they have
as yet ever reached the actual shingle I have not
been able to discover. Climbing down the
low—clad green covered cliffs at Penrhyn
Bay would be easy if ever they reached so far.

Someone here made a pet of a hedgehog:
not a captive pet, but one that came and went
at will. But it knew its home and its owners
and knew too where to find the provision
that was always made for it when the time for
hibernation came round once more.

ANIMALS HAVE NO NATIONALITY.

I] THIS is the dictum printed on the cover
of the report of the Hawksley Society
for the Protection of Animals and Birds

in Italy, which has now become incorporated

under the Board of Trade.

The report covers a wide field of work for
the protection of animals carried on in
Carrara, Catania, Florence, Lipari, Lucca,
Pisa and Pistoia, Siena, Spezia, Taormina
and Tripoli, and the Society either maintains
or aids in the maintenance of Free Dispensary
work, Troughs and Drinking Tubs, and
Dogs’ Homes. It is concerned with Humane
Slaughter, with Humane Education and with
the Protection of Birds—and many other
humanitarian activities.

Truly this Society is carrying on a beneﬁ—
cent work. If you would like to know more
about it write to the Secretary for a copy of the
report. His name and address are: Sheridan
Russell, 179, Gloucester Place, N.W.I.

The report concludes with an urgent appeal
for more funds.

334

“ﬁr“ "l““r—«F‘Wr—v «I... .a

A 1131151, 193 6’

The Cat and the Rabbit

LONG a country lane walked Mrs.
ABradbury, of Little Denham. . . She

heard a squeal, and saw a baby rabbit
lying injured on the grass. There was a
wound on its shoulder, a jagged, ugly tear
from the teeth of a stoat. Mrs. Bradbury
stooped down, picked up baby bunny,
nursed it in her arms back to her home.
Green eyes, long whiskers, sharp claws were
waiting on the mat—Micky, nine—months—old

Tom cat. He saw the helpless bunny in his
mistress’s arms. His tail twitched. Mrs.
Bradbury . . . laid the injured baby at Micky’s

feet. With a purr the cat crept forward,
opened his mouth—~and began to lick and
cleanse the wound. The patient, no sign of
fear in its soft brown eyes, remained still.
Cared for by Micky the baby rabbit soon
recovered. Mrs. Bradbury decided to keep it.
She built a hutch at the bottom of the garden,
popped the bunny inside. Before she could
shut the door Master Micky was inside too.
He wasn’t going to be parted from his
patient. That’s the story of two natural
enemies, a cat and a rabbit.

 

IP. Phillips

Photo by]

Tbir mt acz‘r a; deputy—mower and nurse 2‘0 tbere rabbitr.
Tbe mot/Jer rabbit i5 .rti/l living.




 

 

 

A ugmt, I 93 8

 

TI—IE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

On With the Circus!

BY CYNTHIA MASSEY—COOKE.

“ Lion Claws

Circus Girl.”
HIS startling
headline ap—
peared in
most of the news—
papers recently. In
one paper, at least,
there was also a
picture of the girl
trainer with her
lions. That picture,
in my opinion,
gave one furiously
to think. \Y/e were
told that the girl,
though injured in
the leg and thigh,
insisted on going
on with the even-
ing’s performance.
Very plucky of her.
No one will deny
that. But what about the lion? There are two
sides to every question, and I cannot help
wondering how many people have considered
leis side? And how many—if they studied the
expressions of those four lions at all closely———
felt a pang of pity for the poor beasts. I did.
There was savage hatred and resentment in the
snarling face of one ; a look of heart-break and
hopelessness about another. The trainer, as
was probably noticed at the time, held a whip in
one hand, a kind of U—shaped fork in the other.
We English pride ourselves on our love for
animals and our sense of fair play. I would say,
rather, that most of us are fond of domesz‘ie
animals. Again and again I have found to my
amazement that nice, humane people who would
feel intense indignation at the ill—treatment of a
dog, a cat, or a horse, can witness with keen
enjoyment blood—sports and the degrading
antics of performing animals. Yet cruelty is
always cruelty, be it inﬂicted upon tame
creatures or wild ones. I should like circus
enthusiasts to exercise their imagination—
if, indeed, they possess any—and mentally
put themselves in the place of a performing
lion.
and no one will ever convince me that cruel
methods are not employed by some trainers at

335

The aspect of physical cruelty apart—_

least—~one has to consider the unnatural
conditions in which circus animals are obliged
to live. For those used by travelling circuses
and menageries, life must be one long hell.
Picture them being jolted over rough country
roads, often confined in quite inadequate
cages. The lions and tigers in the London
Zoo are a pitiful enough sight, padding
restlessly back and forth, or lying listlessly
inert, in their golden eyes a homesick hunger
for their native forests and jungles—for
freedom—or just a dull hopelessness. Surely
most of us have at some time or another
consciously rejoiced in our freedom? Haven’t
we, out for a walk on a ﬁne day, entertained
the fugitive thought: “It must be terrible to
be in prison?”

Think, then, of those noble, digniﬁed
captives! Circus lions cooped up in cages,
compelled into submission to the will of Man,
forced to perform absurd tricks—sometimes,
perhaps, when they are not feeling well——
for the delectation of human fools. The break—
ing of their ﬁne, independent spirit must be a
long, slow business. One can imagine how
they hate their trainer, and bide their time,
outwardly submissive, ﬁlled inwardly with a
burning resentment. How, when their chance
comes they are swift to seize upon it——to
spring, growling triumphantly, and fasten
teeth or claws into the soft yielding ﬂesh of
their tormentor. How sweet must be that
breif moment of victory over Man—but how
short—lived? And after? \Well, who knows
what happens, afterwards, behind the scenes, or
how the rebellious beast may be punished for
his attack?

We, who in an age of so—called civilisation
can still tolerate such cruelties, are not our—
selves fully civilised.

On with the circus! Yes, by all means.
Let the clowns tumble and pelt one another
with sausages to make children laugh. Let
the acrobats and trapeze artists display their
feats of skill. But in the name of humanity
let us abolish the practice of training animals to
perform.

lee eivilireel ravage it Me ivorn‘ of all ravager.
C. J. WEBER.
Let bit/vanity be ever our goal.
GOETHE.

 

 

 




 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

A ugust, 193 6’

From Onlooker’s Note Book

Now came fulfilment of the year’s desire;
The tall wheat, coloured h} the August fire,

The hees went hurrying to fill up their store ;

The apple-houghs hent over more and more ;
With peach and apricot the garden wall

W” as odorous, and the pears hogan to fall

From oﬁ‘ the high tree with each freshening hreesze.

WILLIAM MORRIS.

Sir William Watson Born August 2nd, I 85 8.

SIR \WILLIAM WATSON (1858-1935) among
the greatest of modern poets, born at
Burley—in—Wharfedale, began publication with
The Princes’ Quest in I 880 ; Wordsworth’s Grave,
which followed ten years later made his niche
secure in the poets’ palace. The following
few lines are an extract from Animals’ Rights,
(1899).

But this I know, whate’er of natural rights
Be mine, are yours no less h)! native do wer.
If none entitled is to hind me down,
And rend, and mar, and rack, and hreak,
and ﬁg; me,

l\Tone hath a title so to raoage you
Saning such title as defames alike

Him that hestows, and him that uses it.

A Bird of Leisure.

JOHN BURROUGHS (1857—1921), American
poet and naturalist, born in New York State
was in turn teacher, government clerk,
and farmer. His works include Whitman,
Ways of Nature, Bird and Bough (poems) and
The Breath of Life.

The few lines that follow are from Wake-
Rohin.

August is the month of the high-sailing hawks.
The hen—hawk is the most, noticeahle. He likes
the haze and calm of these long, warm days. He
is a hird of leisure, and seems always at his ease.
How heautiful and majestic are his movements!
So self-poised and my, such an entire ahsence of
haste, such a magnificent amplitude of circles and
spirals, such a haughty, imperial grace, and oc—
casionall , such daring aerial evolutions.

Peckham’s Fair.

GEO. E. EADES, M.A., Lecturer in London
History, L.C.C., City Literary Institute, has
in his most interesting book, London, dealing
with the romance of its development, the

336

following allusion to Peckham’s fair originated
——according to local tradition—by King John
in gratitude for a successful day’s hunting.
\Whoever founded the fair it was not suppressed
until 1827. Here are some extracts from one
of its show-bills :—

‘ To the lovers of Curiosities. To be seen during
the time of Peckham Fair, a grand Collection of
Living Wild Birds and Beasts, lately arrived from
the remotest parts of the world.

I. The Pelican that suckles her young with her
heart’s blood—from Egypt.

2. The noble Vulture Cock, brought from
Archangell, having the ﬁnest tallons of any bird
that seeks its prey. The fore part of his head is
covered with hair, the second part resembles the
wool of a Black; below that is a White Ring
having a Ruff that he cloaks his head with at night.

3. The he Panther from Turkey, allowed by
the curious to be one of the greatest rarities ever
seen in England, on which are thousands of spots
no two of a likeness.

4. Two ﬁerce and surprising Hyaenas from the
river Gambia. These creatures imitate the human
voice and so decoy negroes out of their huts
and devour them. They have a mane like a horse
and two joints more in their hinder legs than any
other animals.

Camels.

A camel train with hurdens and humps
And heads and hells and laden humps.

MADELEINE S. MILLER.

ST. JOHN‘ ERVINE (born 1885) dramatist
and author,-and at one time manager of Abbey
Theatre Dublin. His successes in the world
of the theatre include the plays: ]ane Clegg,
The First lVIrs. Fraser, The Ship and Anthony
and Anna. He is author of nearly a dozen
novels, and biographies including Parnell and
General Booth. From A journey to ferusalem
the following little extract is taken which
deals with camels and of brutality by their

OWﬂ€fS I

I had heard and read much of the cruelty
practised on animals by Orientals, but I saw no
cruelty of any kind while I was in Asia Minor,
Syria, and Palestine. I do not dogmatise on this
subject; I record only the fact that if there is
cruelty to beasts in those countries, I was lucky
enough not to see any. I say “lucky ” because,
althOugh no one will believe this, I hate rows, and
if I had seen any brutality, there w0uld have had to
beat least one. . . . The Arabs seemed to me to
take uncommon care of their animals, and I saw
signs in Palestine of exceptional understanding
between shepherds and their ﬂocks of sheep and
goats—understanding that could not have been
achieved by brutality.




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

August, 1938

Dartmoor Ponies.

LLEWELYN POWYS (Born 1884) Author and
Journalist. A few of his books are Eboiy/ and
Ivory, Black Lang/91ers, Skin for Skin and Apples
be Ripe. From his last work, Somerset Essays,
I have taken the liberty of extracting L.P’s
touching allusion to the sad fate of Dartmoor
ponies.

It is sad to think that every year some of them
valued for their toughness and smallness of size,
are sold to coal owners to be used for hauling in
the pits. . . . Enjoying the freedom of a wild
creature, accepting the fair weather with frolic,
and enduring the foul weather by turning its
hindquarters to the drifting wet ; at night couchant
in the heather, audibly breathing with hard hoofs
tucked under sensible abdomen in the stillness
of starshine—and then to be suddenly transported
along pitchy tunnels to the earth’s depths never to
feel the sun’s warmth penetrating its hide again, to
remain buried underground, dragging, dragging,
dragging out its life long after it has become blind,
released only on Some scarce noticed afternoon
when the worn out carcass of a dead pit pony
awaits the arrival of the knacker’s lorry at the pit’s
head!

Surely to a Dartmoor pony arbitrary man must
appear like a monster, whether in the turmoil of
Tavistock Fair, or in the gnome—lit stable where he
fills blackened mangers with pottles of scant and
dusty hay from the day—time world.

ONLOOKER.

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

THE LAPLANDER AND IMPRISONED
REINDEER.

A Laplander has come to London on a
strange mission. He wants to start a hospital
for old and feeble Laplanders in the Arctic
Circle. ‘

Mr. Rasmus Rasmussen is the man.’ He
likes to wear his national costume when

' abroad.

London he does not like. The frozen
loneliness of the North, the perpetual snows
on the rugged mountains, the irresistible
appeal of the Arctic silences—he is gladly
leaving us today to get back to them.

“ I shall never forget the imprisoned
reindeer at the Zoo,” he said. “ Of all the
sights of London that has impressed me most.
Naturally I love reindeer. They are my best
friends. They understand me as well as I
understand. them.”

“ I spoke to that one—you might say in
reindeer language. The animal turned to me
as if to say, ‘ Take me away from this life. I
don’t want to live in London. Take me back
to Lapland.’ ”

That is how the imprisoned reindeer
appeared to this Laplander. He added that
he felt like whipping out his knife and putting
his friend out of his misery.

 

Photo by]

Entrance to Castle, St. Michael Caerlays, Cornwall.

[F . R. Winstone

337

 

 




 

 

 

N...,_...____...V.i-r.r\_.. , A

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Au gust, [938

:Gwenol Satow

BY BASIL HARVEY—JAMES.

AM fortunate that in the two poets
whom I can number among my friends-—
Alastair Davis and Gwenol Satow—both
are keen lovers of animals, and have expressed
their love in exquisite verse. So far I have
written of men and women of the past or of
contemporaries senior to myself, and even
Davis is older by a few years. Thus I ﬁnd
myself writing for the ﬁrst time in these col—
umns (or at all) of someone younger than I am.

As I have dealt sparingly with cattle in my
sketches so far, I shall begin with her Bulloe/és,
which portray so faithfully the traditional
patience of oxen :—

I eould not sleep for Min/éing of tbeir tyres,
Tbeir patient eyes, tbeir looeb/ baunting ates,

Tbat look into our bearts n/itb no sur rise.
So patient of Me joke Me] stand to brood,

Droii/sed iuitb tbe turgid drumming of tbeir blood,
Like N oab’s arebaie bulloe/és earned in mood.

Miss Satow shows a more plaintive type of
pathos in her Grassbopper ;___..

. . . Song of Summer, bis noise is dead,
Unbeeded tbe flowers are~ooer tbe bead
Of Me barbinger, tbe first begotten——
See, be is gone, but be bas forgotten

Tbis small green leg.

In the realm of nature outside the animal
kingdom Miss Satow has written verses on
such themes as “ Der Fruhling ” (“ The
Spring”), “ Bacchanalia,” “ The Bridge,”
“ To the lVIountains,” “ Frost,” “ Quiet
Water ” and “ Landscape,” the last of which
concludes :——

Tbe unbro/éen line of bill is beautiful,

And eolour strides Me poppies in Me grain;

Tbere is notbing on Me borizon,

But Me skies blo n/ing up to rain.

In more mystic vein are her “Fiat Lux,”
“ Dream,” “ When I am tossed on the Waves of
Sleep ” (recalling more than one of Mary
Webb’s. poems), “ The Enchantress ” and
“ Requiem,” which last I will render in toto :—

Under Me stars Me dear dead lie ;

Tbe dead tbat are so mueb looelier tban I,

Tbgl are quiet now, My will never fear again :

Tbeir bearts are wasbed quite elean by Me tender

mm.

In two recent poems, “Tropic Frieze”
and “ Moon Limbo,” Miss Satow introduces

338

animals in a more amusing vein. Her more
formal and traditional lines “ The Bee ”
are of surpassing beauty :—

H e n/ings tbrougb Me quiet garden, pausing
ouer
A bed of roses, in Meirfirst sleep;
Roses are tempting, but being a devout loner
He turns for u/bere Me sun—rays steep
A field in sbining, sbimmering eloiier,

Here dips and buzzes, body deep.

It is almost an axiom however that no one is
truly a poet who has not written on birds.
Here then we ﬁnd Gwenol Satow at her great-
est—as in “ Lament for a Dead Bird,” and as
shown in these extracts from two other poems.

. . . I am eaugbt in Me sn/ay

f Meir sbarp gbost ebatter,

Held in Me beat

Of Meir featbered wings,

Alesbed in Me iuebs

Of Meir tenuous feet:

ZI/Iy beart beats in Me beat of Meir n'ings.

(“ Rooxs.”)

Aeross unfatbomed space I beard
Tbe elear sbrill singing of a bird . . .
. "And I arose and follo iued Plim

Borne up on wings of serapbim.
(“ THE LITTLE SOUL GOES UP.”)

Nor can I in fact better conclude than in
citing “Prayer,” another short poem on a
bird theme 2——

Lord, if Tbou bast Me mind,
Help, Ob belp, Me little raged tbings
Tbat beat so rain/y against Me bars.
Grant Mem Me freedom of Meir wings.

Ab, leaoe Mem in Me wilderness,

Or in Me busb, or in Me brake;

Let Mem in liberty possess

Tbe baunts God fasbioned for Meir sake!
And all Me glories of Meir Mroats

5 ball sound more glorious n/ben Me} rise
In fligbts and waves of noble notes

To stir‘your bearts and dim “your eyes.

NORMAN GALE.

J)”: -

 

_-‘V_,._ .«—-\. W

‘V

‘ W'_V
WW




 

A“ '

l

 

 

 

 

 

August, 1938 I A

An August Day.

BY HUDSON READ.

corn on the shoulder of the hill, and the

_ poppies nod their red bonnets. Along
the dry bank harebells swing as if the ﬁngers
of the wind had touched them to fairy chimes.
Near the ancient grey wall the bright disks of
the hollyhocks attract the bees, who climb about
like dusty millers. The low murmur of their
music adds rural charm to the cottage garden.

At one’s approach a young robin stands
like a still shadow against a tiny carpet of
moss ; one might mistake it for a small thrush
with its buff—spotted mantle. The gift of a red
waistcoat will not be made until the first
autumn. From the deep green lap of the oak
trees comes the coo of wood pigeons. It is a
cool contented sound, when the sun beats
ﬁercely on unshaded places.

Although most birds have lost the fervour
of song, fragments of music are heard along
the way. In the lane by the cornfield the
yellowhammer utters his harsh solo. And a
cock linnet with a red crown, trills a little,
as he plays hide and seek, about the thistle
patch. From the thatch of “ Crow Tree ”
cottage sparrows chatter, and in the orchard
a robin ticks a note or two.

By the old gatepost fretted with ivy,
meadow brown butterﬂies seek adventures
over tawny stuble. On the mirror of the
brook is the restless zig-zag shadow of a big
dragon—fly. Under the white bridge a group
of brown cows stand, dewlap deep. When the
turn of the sun tells that the day grows old, the
rooks flap slowly home, and village dames
exchange a mite of gossip. On a rough seat
outside the inn, the solitary men of the fields
gather for company. And the setting sun
forecasts a fine to—morrow.

a RIPPLE of wind rustles the golden

I

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

A Birdland Tragedy

By HUDSON READ.
THIS year a number of house—martins

built their nests under the eaves of some

villas near the Mickleover Golf Course,
Derbyshire. But the martins were not allowed
to rest in peace, for the sparrows took posses-
sion of these mud castles when completed.
In one nest the martins actually hatched their
eggs before the brown robbers drove them
out, and the sparrows tossed the baby martins
over the rim of the nest onto the concrete
below. Also, one sparrow remained on
guard at the nest to prevent the return of the
rightful owners. The same thing happened
at Shelton Lock a few years ago.

\Vithout a doubt many martins are driven
out of their rightful haunts through victim—
isation by sparrows. Unquestionably sparrows
are lazy to a degree, and to obtain a ready—
made home for the price of a squabble is a
cheap way out of their difﬁculty. \Whether
it is that sparrows have increased so rapidly
that they find it difficult to discover enough
sites for nests may have a slight bearing on
the case. But for years there has been enmity
between sparrows and house—martins. This
is probably one reason why the population of
martins has decreased in this country. Another
theory put forward is the extensive drainage
of marshy lands, which has destroyed th
breeding haunts of insects on which house-
martins feed.

An old country saying is that when martins,
or swallows, build about a house there will be
gold, or children. One thing is sure, that
where these birds build the air is pure, for
perhaps you remember that Banquo indicated
the healthy position of Macbeth’s castle by
the martins’ nests about it.

    

95/?14 Rojasu TLER.

339

 

 




 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

A ugust, I93 8

The Library Table

Lovable Beasts. By Harper Cory, F.C.G.S.
The “ Teaching of English ” Series.
Nelson. IS. 4d.

Lamb/e Bean‘s needs no introduction to
readers of THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND for in its
pages for many months past they have been
given the stories of Wary Wak—kus, Pee—Shoo,
Mit—ten—usk, Sportsman Ne—geek and many
another of these “ warm memories of distinct
animal personalities ” from the pen of Harper
Cory, Fellow of the Canadian Geographical
Society. , _

But although neither book nor author need
introduction the issue of the complete series
of 18 sketches of animal life, each one con—
cerned with a differing type, in an edition
specially designed for educational purposes, is
an important event in the'educational world.
For Harper Cory is a naturalist of no mean
distinction,a ﬁeld naturalistwith an international
reputation, and we commend specially to
Directors of Education, Teachers and Educa-
tionalists this volume of animal studies based
on personal observation, on c0nversations with
hunters and trappers and close study of the
reports of Canadian naturalists of repute.
Regarding, as he does, every living creature as
an individual with personal traits which often
differ from those of his fellows, these studies
are living records of wild life ways embodied
in moving narratives of the love, education
and adventure common to the daily life of the
animals known to the author who has watched
them with scientiﬁc and understanding observa—
tion and keen and accurate perception. Another
and truer conception is presented here,
than the misleading conception of “ Nature
red in tooth and claw ”——one which has been
put by William J. Long in these words :

Instead of being cruel or pitiless or merely
thoughtless, Nature seems to have provided
most carefully that birds and beasts should be
joyously abundant, and, lest they increase
too greatly and 'overrun the earth, that death,
the “ dark mother,” should approach them
mercifully. Into their lives come two great
blessings, besides the common mercies of
food and play and rest; they are spared all
regret for yesterday and all anxiety for the
morrow. They live gladly; they have no
conception of death; they lie downfor their
last sleep with the familiar expectation that
they awake once more in the morning.

340

The complete volume was published origin-
ally in 4to, with over 60 illustrations, at
128. 6d. It is now to be had in “ The Teaching
of English ” series of which the editor is
Dr. Richard Wilson, delicately bound in
blue cloth, 6% by 4%, printed in clear type on
247 pages with 20 full page photographic
reproductions of 18 different families of
“Lovable Beasts” at IS. 4d. It sounds in-
credible but it’s true.

This volume should be in 'all our schools,
and what a delight to teachers and scholars
alike. Messrs. Nelson and Co. are to be
warmly congratulated on their enterprise,
which we hope will be well supported by
the educational authorities.

R. H. S.

The Green Leaf : A Memorial to Grey Owl.

Edited and arranged by Lovat Dickson.
(Lovat Dickson, Ltd.) 25. 6d.

This little book is not intended to be, as its
editor points out, a biography of Grey Owl :
“Its purpose is only to record the closing
scenes of Grey Owl’s life, and to reﬂect by
setting out some of his letters and some
extracts from his published and unpublished
writings, something of . the integrity and
nobility of his spirit.”

In our opinion the editor has achieved his
purpose, and the friends and admirers of Grey
Owl everywhere will be grateful to him for
this record. There is much that one would like
to quote, but one passage must sufﬁce. The
passage is chosen because in it Grey Owl has
disclosed in profoundly moving words to the
companion to whom he spoke the purpose
of his life. He had been speaking of the way
in which his effort to help the beaver grew
to embrace all animals, and so on to his adopted
people, the Indians, and ﬁnally to all humanity.
“ Down the avenue of trees,” he said, “ I see
a spot of sunlight. And I am trying so hard
to get there.” And, he continued, and his
words were written down soon afterwards :‘

Battlements of beauty are greater than the
fortiﬁcations of evil, and that’s what I’m trying to
build up—greater resistance to evil. It is the
forces of evil that look for a battle—Jove offers not
passive resistance, but passive aggression? The

Indian idea of beauty is in form perhaps. Beauty
may reside not only in form but in symmetry, in

 

 

 

 

 




A ugusl, I 93 6’

affection, in loyalty and a perfect conformation to
environment that perhaps may be the ultimate
fulﬁlment in the quest for beauty. Completeness
in every essential detail, to an ideal for which you
have searched hitherto unavailingly.

Grey Owl went on to speak of the Indian
idea of beauty as also expressed in a combina—
tion of colours, each one a contrast to the

other, “ yet each a thread in the pattern of ‘

beauty that makes the great tapestry.” This
“ great. curtain of mystery that hangs before
the face of the \Wilderness ” is to him

a curtain that may only be pulled aside by those
who come childlike without guile, with that love
that only children and small animals can possibly
have ; a love that asks for nothing, but only wants
to know ﬁrst just what‘it does love. Fumbling,
groping, I want to know : and behind that curtain,
that great cloth of gold of mystery and unknown
possibilities—behind. I ﬁnd it . . . . Nature.

Then follow the words which give the title
to this memorial: '

You’re tired with years of civilisation.
and offer you—what?

I come
A single green leaf.

The cOntents of the volume include chapters
on “The Passing of Grey Owl”; “Press
Commentary ” ; “ Grey Owl’s Letters ”;
“ Grey Owl’s Philosophy ” ;
Farewell to the Children ”; and “ The Last
Days—a Record in Pictures.”

R. H. S.

The LiOn and the Lamb

‘ N memorials that mark the last resting
Oplaces of our ancestors, figures of
animals are sometimes to be found.
On monumental brasses and sculptures of
the sixteenth century, knightly ﬁgures often
have represented at their feet lions, the
symbol of martial courage. Others of the
time have dogs at their feet to symbolise
their fidelity to a cause.

Wool merchants of that period have a
sheep at their feet, as the symbol of their
trade. Sometimes a woolpack and a crook
were used as well as a sheep. John Fortey
who died at Northleach in 1458, has a brass
which shows him with one foot on a sheep
and the other on a woolpack.

There are old gravestones in the Clitheroe
district on which are carved two small horse-
shoes, showing that the man who lies there
in his lifetime owned a team of pack ponies.

E. G. B.

341

“ Grey Owl’s .

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

“ Grey Owl”

Tbg/ are searebing by tbe river,
In tbe creeks and in tbe lodges,
Keeping ceaseless, tireless wateb
Tbrougb tbe nigbt and Mrougb Me day.
And Meir wistful eyes are pleading
For tbe friend, wbo ne’er unbeeding
Let Meir eall remain unanswered
“ Wa—Sba-Quon—Asin, eome tbis way! ”

No more beside Me doorway,
Does Me squirrel find loue’s offering,
And Me proud “ wbite tbroated ” loon
Ciro/es round Me lake in rain,
“ Hob—bob—boboooooo! ” rings eerily
But no answer sane an eebo
And a wbispering in Me pinetops—
“ Hob—bob, Grg/ Owl, boboooooo!

He eometb not again! ”

Grey Owl—beloved broMer

Of Me little Beaver People,
E’er mam! moons passed o’er Mee

Tbou didst- reaeb ﬁre last long trai
Tbe lonesome trial wbieb led tbee

From Me Land of Purple Sbadows.
To Me Land beyond Me sunset

.Yet sball not My spirit fail.

To plead for tbese, My broMers
Dear as ebildren, well beloved;
Tbat- men’s bearts be tuned to friendsbip
And tbat fear may pass away
From Me sorro wing ones wbo see/é tbee
In Me forest, lake and river,
W/ben tbe l\Tortbern ngbts are dancing
And tbrougb all tbe long, long day.
JOAN B. WHITE.

(These verses are published by kind. permission
of The Editor of Tbe Weekly Scotsman, in whose columns.
they recently appeared.)

  

\
‘
L_\ 4

, «\v

‘ 4..

  

:1 \fr. ‘
:5 "
|\

\
9‘

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

The Clever Coyote

HE coyote has a peculiar mental make—up.

He has all the keen alertness of the wolf

and the audacious cunning of the fox.
His fox—like face at times takes on a serio-
comic expression. At other times he has a
most expectant look as he sits and watches, or
listens, with head tilted on one side and sharp
ears pointing slightly forward. He has actions,
characteristics, and attitudes that make him
excel even the fox for the purpose of fable
making.

There are numerous Indian myths concern-
ing the coyote; in fact, he takes the place
the fox has in primitive European folklore.
Numerous tribes pay the coyote tribute in
daily food. Their belief accredits him with
the audacity and the cunning to seize fire from
forbidden sources and deliver this enduring
comfort to the fireless red men. Amongst
most Indian tribes he is regarded with favour.
Many Indian dogs are descendants of the
coyote. ‘

The coyote is a small, ﬂeet—footed, keen—
witted animal, tawny or yellowish brown in
colour. He is, of course, a wolf; but he is
only a little more than half the weight of his
large relative, the gray wolf. Originally
he was scattered over most of North America.
Though scientifically classified into a number
of species and sub—species, they are very much
alike in colour and habit.

Coyotes probably mate for life. A pair
commonly hunt together, though each often
hunts alone. They are said to live from eight to
ﬁfteen years. I kept track of one for eight
years, who appeared mature when I first met
him and showed no signs of decay when I saw
him last.

The coyote usually lies up in a den when not
hunting; but at times he simply hides in
underbrush or in ravines. A den I measured
lay nearly four feet below the surface and had a
length of fourteen feet. It was expanded into
a room—like place near the farther end and
there were a number of small pockets extending
from it. The den may be made by the coyotes
themselves or it may be the den of a badger
which they have reshaped. Occasionally
they take advantage of cave—like places
between large stones. The den commonly
is in an out-of—the—way place and the entrance
to it is concealed by stones or bushes.

Coyotes often have three or more dens. A

change is probably helpful in keeping down

August, 1938

parasites, and I am certain that their use of
more than one den confuses and defeats their
pursuers. Many a man has dug into a coyote’s
den and found it empty when only the day
before he had seen it used by the entire family.

The young are born in April. or May, in
litters of from five to ten. They grow rapidly
and in a few weeks show all the cunning ways
and playfulness of puppies. \then safe they
spend hours outside the den, wrestling,
digging, or sleeping in the sun. In two dens I
examined each youngster had a separate
compartment or pocket for himself; and,
judging from claw marks, probably he had dug
this himself. In July the youngsters are taken
out into the world, where they learn the tactics
of wresting a living from the field.

The coyote’s food habits are not all bad.
At some time in every locality, and in a few
localities at all times, he has a high rank in
economic biology, and may be said to co—
operate silently with the settlers in eradicating
damaging pests.

(From Walclzezl by Wild Animals by Enos
Mills.)

The coyote is a clever animal otherwise it
would long ago have disappeared from prairie
and mountains. An Ishmael with nearly every
man’s hand against him, he nevertheless
contrives to outwit his adversaries, to adapt
himself to constantly changing conditions
and to display a resourcefulness that is truly
amazing. In many other animals with whose
habits I am familiar, instinct, as we call it,
has almost complete control of behaviour
except in moments of grave danger when life
is threatened. At such times of stress a ﬂash
of intelligence may momentarily be generated.
But the coyote brings marked intellectual
powers to bear in solving all the problems
common to every day existence. ' To say that
the animal lives by his wits is a common—
place: he also evades sudden death by sheer
cleverness and audacity. I do not know
whether nowadays a coyote is eagle—eyed
enough to detect a shot gun in the back seat
of a motor car but assuredly in horse and buggy
days he knew when there was a lethal weapon
in the vehicle and when there was only a whip.
Some farmers imagined that he could smell
the powder in cartridges. The coyote is not
readily trapped.

(From Animal: 0f the Canadz'cm Rat/€22.15, by

Dan .MacGowan. Published by Lovat Dick—
son.)

342

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

August, [938

THE ANIMALS FRIEND

Through; the Eyes of a Dog-Lover

BY FRANCIS T. WYATT.

HAVE TROT-
TED around
with a dog

(the same one)
for the past ten
years. Perhaps I
should say my
dog has trotted
around with me.
I’ll compromise,

trotted around
together.

diarist, instead of
one of those
millions who
trust to one of
the most elusive
of things—memory—I think I should be
astounded by the facts which the leaves of

 

'my diary would reveal, as the result of my

half score of years’ perambulations.

The friends I have made; the confidences
that have been unfolded; the understandings
of kindred spirits, who have allowed themselves
to speak of all that a dog means to them,
because they could see that I understood,
and appreciated with a common intelligence,
those things the less understanding might
have regarded as mere “ fads.”

So much influence may the dog have upon
man. . . . Two intelligent eyes. Sometimes
mischievous: sometimes sorrowful: some-
times pensive. But eyes that Jpea/é—and
pierce . . . pierce right to the heart: in
very much the same way that the appealing
glance of a child will lodge itself in the heart
of a parent.

This understanding between man and dog,
may be described as “ peculiar,” in more
ways than one. It is less common, and—in
the eyes of some—-—less “ natural” than
human affection. But it is an “idea,” none
the less: and those who have experienced it
are by no means “ cranks,” or exploiters of a
morbid sentimentality. It is these things that
only dOg—lovers can understand, and allow for.
The understanding between man and dog is an
idealism which is also a practicality. Very
few “ idealisms ” are that!

If my dog were one of those absurd “ ideals ”

343

and say we have -

If I were a.

which eccentrics do so much harm in ﬂounting,
then Idoubt whether we should have got on so
well together. No, my dog, in common with
others, is just a dog . nothing more.

She has inherited all the sins to which the
dog is heir. She would steal out of my pocket
without compunction, if there were anything
in my pocket for her liking to steal. She
would ﬂirt when she knows it displeases me
for her to do so. She would rest when she
should exercise (but perhaps that is excusable
in one her age P) And there are a dozen and
one things that she would do, which she
knows quite well that she should not do. I
believe there are humans alike in this, too?

It is these things that only dog-lovers under-
stand, and are ever willing to allow for.
It is those 222/20 like dog: the least, and leave [eff/e,
or 720 care for their zed/«being, w/ye meta/[y expeez‘,
and demand z‘be more from them !

A dog without vagaries is like a baby without
a cry. Dogs were never meant to be adorned
with haloes. I can imagine nothing more
undesirable than the “ perfect ” dog, as those
unacquainted with dogs would describe as
“ perfect.”

Whatever faults the worst of dogs may have,
he will never fail to offer one thing in return
for kindnesS—a thing which many humans
sadly lack—appreciation. Their appreciation
too, is sincere and unaffected. There is no
artifice about it whatever. Children and
dogs in common, are incapable of diplomacy.
And once you have won the heart of a dog,
you may be sure it is yours until it ceases to
beat. His friendship and good—will is life—long.
If you have entered his bad books—and it is
inconceivable that you will do so without
cause—he will be ready, by a right method of .
approach, to forgive and forget more willingly
than many of his human “ brethren.”

One could spend an hour in a less proﬁtable
way than in considering the virtues of the
dog. The dog has been memorialised again
and again: significantly by men and women.
with brains, and the power to use them!
He has not been overrated.

It is only those who have been in intimate
contact with dogs who are inspired to tell
others less fortunate, what the dog is, and what
he is really worth.

The love of dogs is a weakness none need
ever be ashamed of.

 




 

 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

The National Council

August, 1938'

Welfare

for Animals’

H072. Organiring Semez‘my: J. L. CATHER.

Animals’ Welfare Week Reports, 1938 (continued).

Barnes .

Mrs. Doubleday reports that personal letters were
written to all the clergy in Sheen, Mortlake and Barnes,
calling attention to the Week, that prayers were said
in church and that invitations were sent to the teachers
of the district to enlist their children in the R.S.P.C.A.,
Young People’s Branch. Full particulars and specimen
cards and literature accompanied the invitations,
but the response was not encouraging, to say the least
of it. >

Carli sle.

Thanks to an enthusiastic little group of delegates
and friends we continue to observe “ The Week.”
Circular letters, literature—and posters in some cases———
were sent out to all City Ministers, and to a few sympa-
thetic in the country, and we know of references being
made in several Churches and Sunday Schools. The
annual service was held at the Unitarian Church,
and also at the Fellowship of The Spirit; and there
may be others of which we are not aware. Mr.
Alfred Brisco wrote appropriate letters to the local
press: and a Poster-handcart which he rigged~ up
aroused much attention when being wheeled round the
city streets throughout the Week. We are gratiﬁed
to report the co-operation of the local Branch of the
R.S.P.C.A., who supplied literature to the Council
Schools. Their oHicial Lecturer gave talks in twelve
or more of the day schools.

Mrs. Sheridan, local hon. Secretary of the National
Anti-Vivisection Society, has accepted invitations
to speak in the near future on Animals’ Welfare to the
Greystone Labour Women’s Group, and the Co-
operative Women’s Guild.

“ Romany ” of the BBC, writer of a weekly
Nature column in Tim Camber/and Nazi/r, was again
reminded and responded with a ﬁne article on Animals’
Welfare Week. We were fortunate in getting the loan
of two main—street empty shops, the windows of which
were used for successful Poster display.

As a fund—raising and social effort our vice-chairman,
Mrs. Holt, arranged a Garden Party at her home;

. but unreasonable weather conditions changed the

gathering into an enjoyable ﬁre—side Tea—Party.

By the removal to Pennington of Canon and Mrs.
Burnett the Animals’ Cause locally has lost good
friends—Our gratitude and good wishes follow them.

“ Something attempted, something done,” in 19 38——
yet still hOping to do better another year.

BARBARA WATSON and MAUD PROUDFOOT,

Co—Setremrz’er, Carlir/e Committee for Animals’
W/dfare Week.

Corby, Grantham.

Mr. S. G. Appleby, Headmaster, writes from the
S chool House, Corby, Grantham, in enclosing 158. 6d.
for the sale of emblems :—

We have had several talks on Animal Welfare
about which the children are very keenly interested.
I am a great animal lover myself, and I make a

strong point of kindness to the Animal World?
for I believe that only by training the children can
we rid our land of those terrible blots on our
civilisation.
Mr. Appleby has enclosed a summary of the talks.
made by one of the top class girls. We hope to publish
this summary in our September issue.

Croydon.

Over two thousand Croydon secondary and elemen-
tary scholars entered the essay competition in connec-
with the Animals’ Welfare Week and the number
of awards—one hundred and fourteen—represented
an increase of 32.56 per cent.

'This was revealed when the prizes and certiﬁcates.
were presented at the Central Library by Mr. H. S.
Clayton, head master of the Whitgift Middle School and
president of the Croydon Animals’ Welfare Association,
on July 7th.

Mr. Clayton congratulated the winners on their
wonderful efforts and said that when he glanced through
some of the essays he wondered how on earth the
judges were going to make their decisions. They
must have had a tremendously difﬁcult task. It was-
absolutely necessary to do all one could for the welfare
of animals. The most important work in this direction
was done with the younger generation and in the days to.
come, when Croydon was governed by the children
who were now at school, there would be a much more
enlightened outlook on the duties towards the animal.
friends.

Mr. George Bell (secretary), referring to the increase
in entries and priZes, said they were most gratifying.

The prizes were presented by Mrs. H. S. Clayton.

Premier awards were: Under eight years, Pamela.
Webber (Holy Trinity); 8—12 years, Judith Home
(Croham Hurst); 12 years and over, Margaret Cory
(Tavistock Senior Girls).

After the prizegiving Councillor E. S. More gave
a lantern talk on “ Animals Worth Knowing.”——-
Croydon Advertirer. '

Dalston, Hackney, Islington, etc.

Miss K. J. Millward, an enthusiastic and untiring'
worker in humane education, reports the following
talks in connection with Animals’ Welfare W’eek,
though some of them were given later in May, in June
and July. At each of the schools literature and posters.
were distributed. Here is the list :—

Wilton Road: Infants.—4th May, talk to parents,
Mrs. Stott ; 6th May, talk to infants. Junior Girls.—
12th May, Talk by Mrs. Stott. Junior Boys—talk by
Mrs. Stott.

Sigdon Road: Infants—17th May, talk by Mrs.
Stott. Junior Girls.——6th May, talk by Miss Bradish-
Junior Boys.———15th June, talk by Mr. K. Robinson,
Sec., O.D.F.L.

Shacklewell Lane: Infants—Talks and lessons.
throughOut Week. Senior Girls—Talks and lessons.
throughout Week.

344

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

August, 1936’

Queen’s Road: Junior Boys and Girls—Talk by
Mrs. Stott, 19th July.

Gayhurst Road: Infants.——13th May, Talk.

Tottenham Road (Islington): Junior Girls—Talk.

Holy Trinity, Dalston : Girls and Infants—3rd May,
talks to both departments, Miss Bradish.

Enﬁeld Road (Islington) : Infants —Talk.

Queen’s Head Street (Islington): Senior Girls.—
Talk. ‘
Oxford ' HOuse, Bethnal Green: 8th May, Evening
Sunday School, girls and boys, talk.
Nichol Street, Bethnal Green:
Morning Sunday School, Talk.

Congregational Church, Middleton Road, Dalston:
Children’s Own Meeting (Monday), 23rd May, talk.

In addition to the above impressive list, Miss
Millward records that Posters and Literature were
distributed at Winchmore Hill, Baptist Church; at
Denmark Street, Girls School, Middlesbrough, where
special lessons were given throughout the Week. At
Shottery, Stratford-on-Avon, St. Andrew’s School,
special lessons were given throughout the Week, and
posters and literature were distributed. The latter were
also sent to a Nursing Home at Newport, Isle of Wight.
Miss Millward also arranged for a display of posters
on the platform at Dalston Station, in shops and the
windows of private houses, for the distribution of
literature in Dalston Lane and elsewhere, for the
enclosure of leaﬂets by two local newsagents in over
200 daily papers, and for the distribution of a large
number of copies of THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND at a parents’
meeting on May 4th.

This is indeed. a great record of quiet, effective work.

Girls and Boys,

Newcastle and District.

Animal Welfare Week was observed for the ﬁrst time
in Newcastle : 22nd-29th May. Under the auspices of
the Lord Mayor, Ald. Gilbert Oliver, a combined effort
was made to focus public attention upon the welfare
of animals in Newcastle, and adjacent towns, and was
supported by the Educational Authorities, the various
Animal Protection and Welfare Societies, and given
publicity in the local press. The clergy were circu—
larised, and an appeal made to them to observe one
of the Sundays in the Week. An open air meeting was
held on the Quay~side on Sunday morning, 23rd May.
Miss Enid Atkinson, chairman for the Tyneside
Women’s Guild of Empire, was the speaker, with
Mr. Clark, secretary for the Newcastle Branch B.U.A.V.,
acting as chairman. Through the medium of the
Newcastle Branch R.S.P.C.A.,. an essay competition is
being held for all school children who wish to enter.
A special matinée for school children of Animal Films
was held at the Stoll Cinema on the 22nd. Other
Cinemas in the area kindly showed a slide drawing the
attention of the public to the shop used throughout
the week for propaganda. The shop was in a central
position in the town. Posters of the National Council
and of the various animal societies assisting in the
Week were displayed, and literature was available for
those interested. Signatures were obtained to petitions
in the shop. Neat ribbon bows were made by some
members of the committee, and funds were helped by
their sale. The stafﬁng of the shop was done by some
of the committee, and kind help given by members of
the animal societies represented in the shop. Posters
also were displayed at other places in the area. The
Week, we believe, has justiﬁed itself, and the committee
are happy to report this, and hOpe the endeavour for

345

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

next year will help still more the work of Animal
Welfare. HETTY ELY,
Hon. Secretary Newcastle and District Animals’
Welfare Week.

South Woodham Council School, Chelmsford.

Miss K. B. Foulger, in enclosing a PO. for 63. 5d.
collected by the sale of Animal Emblems to the children
of her school, writes :—

We have devoted every possible moment of this
Week to talks, etc., connected with Animal Week.
To conclude the kiddies were given a composition
to write on any one of the following subjects :—

My Pet.

A Pet I Should Like.

Kindness to Animals. .

The children of this school are evidently getting an
admirable and practical humane education, as is
indicated by the compositions printed on p. 353.

Weston-Super-Mare.

Before the Week started, a well-attended meeting
organised by the Weston Fellowship of Reconciliation
was held in the Friends’ Meeting House, at which
“ The Wider Brotherhood ” was the subject. Miss
Grace Hawkins spoke.

Many articles appeared in the Press and there was a
great deal of activity among the children. Teachers took
a very lively interest in the work, and many children
have become readers of the Little Anin/als’ Friend.

 

Photo by] [james Hampson

TlJese swans on the meat 0f the Bis/1017’s Palace, Wells, bane

aeqnirea’ tlie lJalait, banded down by many generations, of

ringing for tlieir daily food. The swans pull tlye string

renneeterl to a bell on tbe drawbrirlge and tbe food is thrown
front the window in response.

 




 

 

 

 

THE A‘NIMALS’ FRIEND

August, 1938

The National Society for the Abolition of Cruel Sports

Seeretaiy: BERTRAM LLOYD, 4, Tavistock Square, London, W.C.I.

Otter-hunting.

N a letter in Toe Eart Anglian Dailr
ITiines of June 4th last, defending otter—

hunting, Mr. Roy Whitlock makes the
following remarkable statements in its favour :
“ All kills are quick, clean and merciful, and
when a hunt is in progress an otter gives every
indication of enjoying the game of hide—and—
seek as much as hounds, and how often he
outwits them! ”

All three points in this short sentence must
seem absurdly erroneous after very little study
of the question. Even among followers of
other branches of blood—sports there are many
disSentients. Thus Captain H. F. H. Hardy
in his book, English Sport, 1952, writes:
“ Otters I suppose have to be killed (why P)
but, too often, nowadays, they are killed by
being mobbed. . . ” ; and Major C. Van der Byl
in his recent book, My Fifty Years of Sport,
largely devoted to the joys of pig—sticking and
fox—hunting, has nothing in praise of otter—
hunting.

I do not like the idea of hunting an animal
during its principal breeding season, also,
as in the case of the badger, hounds are
unable to tear its skin which is necessary
to kill it quickly. I have been told that
when there is a mill, the water is often drawn
off through the sluices, until that in the
river is only about half its normal height.
In this case, of course, the otter has not got a
chance of escape.

Plenty of descriptions of otter—hunts exist
to prove the truth of these statements.

As to the hunt being “ quick,” proofs to the
contrary are abundant. For instance, the
Bucks otter—hounds alone in 19 35 record three
separate hunts of 6% hours, 7 hours 40 minutes
and 8% hours, while the Carlisle pack in 1937
killed their quarry after a 9% hours hunt;
and even this does not make the record for
- length. In short, it is as rare for an otter
worry to be quickly over as for it to be
“ merciful.”

The Otter’s “ Sporting Chance.”

As to the third statement; “ How often he
outwits them! ” which suggests that the
hunted otter has an excellent chance of
escape, clear evidence to the contrary will be

346

found in the following extract from a letter
from the Society in Tloe Bart Anglian Dailyr

' Timer (10/6/1938) contraverting Mr. \Vhit-

lock’s defence.

. . . This Society is fortunate in including
among its members many well—known
naturalists. It is a pity that some sportsmen
who write in defence of otter-hunting, do not
pay more attention to natural history;
but perhaps that is not surprising, seeing
that spending long hours in hunting an
animal instead of watching its normal
habits inevitably leads to unnatural history.

According to The Year Book of Otter—
ln/nting during the past few years an average
of so out of every 100 otters “found”
have been killed—which means that nearly
400 otters are done to death annually by
hunting. \We know what would be thought
of lads who set their dogs on a cat—even a
stray cat—for fun. How illogical it seems,
then, to all humane—minded people that
sportsmen can ﬁnd enjoyment in harrying to.
death one of our most beautiful wild animals.

Death of Prof. A. E. Boycott.

Professor A. E. Boycott, M.A., M.D.,
F.R.S., one of our Vice—Presidents, who died
on May 12th last, after a long illness, was one
of the original members of the Society,
in the work of which he had always taken a
keen interest. Professor Boycott, a distin—
guished pathologist, was in addition a gifted
writer and an ardent ﬁeld—naturalist, his
particular interest being in the study of
mollusca on which he was a recognised
authority. He was one of the most lovable of
men, never willing to spare himself in helping
other students in the pursuits to which he was
devoted, and no friend or acquaintance ever
failed to appreciate the charm of his personality.
His death meant a great loss to the Society
and to British science. A memoir appeared
in lee Tint/er of May 18th.

[Vi/(l animal; as a general rule, excepting per/mp5 toe loear,
liate man and all In; works, .rln/nning loin; as thong/2 lJe were
tlJe devil. Abooe eoerytln'ng elre, they dirlike toe .rnzell of
lnnnanity, as well at Me lnnnan ooiee, wooing off zebeneoer
they come in oontaot wit/J eitlyer.

COL. P. T. ETHERTON.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

August, I 93 8

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

I

The Scottish Society for the Prevention of Vivisection

Hon. forming/z MISS N. IVORY (to whom all communications should be addressed).

Oﬁioer: EDINBURGH—IO, QUEENSFERRY STREET. GLASGOW—I47, BATH STREET.
OB] ECT—T/Je abolition of Vioirooz‘ion and t/Je Prevention of Szgjﬁring to Animal; wniob iz‘ enlai/x.

(szzjz—fonr dooz‘om, fifzy—z‘nroo of flown rogirz‘ored
medical noon and women, and flag oiloor a doctor of

poi/05012913}, Inn/e ' signed Z/ao fol/owing polifion).

E, the undersigned, respectfully beg
‘Xi His Majesty’s Privy Council to refuse
consent to the legislation proposed by
the States and Royal Court which. would have
the effect of making immunisation against
diphtheria compulsory in the Island of
Guernsey.
We base our strong objection to this legisla—
tion on the following points :
I.—lmmunisation against diphtheria is
not compulsory in any part of the British
Empire; Why should it be enforced in
Guernsey?
2.———-The Minister of Health for England
and \Wales has definitely opposed in the
English Parliament a proposal by a Member
of Parliament that compulsion might be
introduced;
3.—Immunisation against diphtheria does
not do what is claimed for it. In Great
Britain there are records of at least 1,000
cases of diphtheria in children and adults
who had been declared immune against that
disease either by inoculation or because they
exhibited a Schick-negative condition. There
are records of at least 25 fatal cases of
diphtheria in immunised children. Man—
chester has had 148 cases of diphtheria in
immunised children with 5 deaths ; Liverpool
245 with 10 deaths; Cardiff 19; cases;
Huddersfield 40 cases with I death; and
Leeds 204 cases with I death;
4.—An examination of the prevalence of
diphtheria in various countries shows that
this has no relation whatever to the amount
of inoculation against that disease that has
been practised. Diphtheria has practically
disappeared from Sweden although no
immunisation. has been practised in that
country. It has become more severe in
France and Germany despite the inoculation
of hundreds of thousands of children in
those countries. If English towns are
compared it will be found that those that

347

have never practised immunisation have
come off far better as regards diphtheria than
those which have been practising this system
for a number of years. Compare, for in—
stance, Birmingham, Manchester and Liver—
pool, three towns in which a considerable
proportion of the child population has been
inoculated, with Northampton, Leicester
and Nottingham, where until 1937 little or
no immunisation had been practised. Of
these six towns Northampton had the
lowest diphtheria death—rate in 1936, and
Leicester came next. While the drop in
Birmingham’s diphtheria death-rate per
100,000 population was from 12 in 1926
to 6 in 1936, Nottingham’s was from 26
to 9, a much larger drop without immunisa—
tion. Glangw, without any public im—
munisation system, came off much better
in 1936 as regards diphtheria, than Edin—
burgh or Aberdeen with immunisation
systems;

5.——There have been repeated changes in
the material used for these inoculations.
First it was toxin—antitoxin, and that was
dropped in favour of toxoid. Toxoid
caused reactions and was said to have a low
immunising power, so toxoid—antitoxin was
adopted. Three injections were needed
and it was found that many parents did not
bring their children for more than one or,
at the most, two injections, Formol toxoid
was then adopted, but this is liable to cause
severe reactions. A few doctors use alum-
precipitated toxoid, but all who have had
experience of it admit that it may cause
abscesses and other serious reactions. This
is the mixture that is to be used in Guernsey.
There is no more protective power in alum—
precipitated toxoid that there is in any or
the other mixtures used ;

6.—In Europe the mixture used is ana-
toxin, which is the same as formol toxoid.
All the toxoids are similar preparations.
There are records of several deaths and a
considerable number of injuries in France

 

 




 

 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

and Italy through the use of toxoid in
diphtheria immunisation; .

7.—A great many English doctors who
have a tentative belief in immunisation are
opposed to its imposition on the public;

8.—The cause of the recent outbreak of
diphtheria in Guernsey was the bad state of
sanitation in the island, which has become
so serious that the Sanitation Board re—
signed. \We maintain that the right method
of dealing with diphtheria in the island is to
attend to the sanitation and that it will be
useless and deﬁnitely injurious to the health
of the children to rely on immunisation
which has proved a broken reed in other
countries.

Your petitioners, therefore, pray His
Majesty’s Most Excellent Privy Council to
exercise their veto and refuse consent to the
proposed imposition of compulsion in this
matter.

ANIMAL WELFARE SOCIETY
OF SOUTH AFRICA.

WE are glad to learn from the 1957
Report of this Society that the
People’s Dispensary for Sick Animals
[of the Poor, London, has become affiliated
to the Animal \Welfare Society of South
Africa. As a result, on November Ist, 1937,
a fully equipped Travelling Dispensary under
the charge of Mr. H. R. Chitty, Chief Technical
Ofﬁcer of the P.D.S.A. in the Cape Province,
made its ﬁrst appearance on the roads of the
Cape Flats and the adjacent poorer districts.
From the date of its appearance until the end
of the year, a period of eight weeks, approxi—
mately 1,000 cases were treated, the number
affording the best possible evidence of the
need of such a Dispensary. The report also
speaks of a permanent Dispensary at Salt
River to be opened on the arrival of an assist—
ant, whom the P.D.S.,A. hoped to dispatch
early in 1938, together with the necessary
equipment.

\Ve regret to learn that the Society has been
disappointed in the hope that the voluntary
work of the P.D.S.A. among the animals
of the very poor people (who cannot be reached
by the Animal \Welfare Society of South
Africa or by the veterinarians) would be
encouraged by the Veterinary Board, and
that the Board has decided that they could
not accept representation on the Standing
Committee formed to administer the work

348

August, [936’

of the P.D.S.A. at the Cape. The report
expresses the hope that the Board may in
time reconsider its decision.

The efforts of this Society, along with those
of other Societies, for the protectionof the
Mountain Zebra have been so far successful
in that the Government has acquired a farm
in the Cradock district upon which a small
herd of Mountain Zebra will be protected.
The Society, however, feels that the amount of
protection thus afforded is inadequate, though
valuable, and that the remaining herd on a
farm in the Oudtshoorn District should also
be safeguarded, and it is encouraging to learn
that the Government has an option on this
farm. When the transfer is complete—but
not till then—the last remaining herd of
Mountain Zebra will be placed under proper
protection.

The Society’s efforts during 19 57 have been
exercised on behalf of animals in small zoos;
in connection with the export of \Wild Animals,
Film Cruelties, Slaughter Reform and Munici-
pal Abattoirs, and in many other directions.
The work of its Clinics and Lethal Depots
has been maintained. Its valuable educational
and propaganda work has been continued in
missions, schools, churches, shows, etc.,
and‘through the Press. It has several branches
and the Junior Branch of King William’s
Town has erected a bird—bath in the grounds
of the Girls’ High School.

This Society does a ﬁne humanitarian work
which we heartily commend.

 

Ostriclzer at Dada/300m.

 

 




 

 

 

A ugusl, 1938

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

The League for the Prohibition of Cruel Sports

Secretary: J. CLIFFORD SHARP, 7, Victoria Street, Westminster, S.\X’.I.

Staghunting Again!

N August 5rd, the Exmoor stag—hunting
0 season will be resumed with the time—

honoured meet of the Devon and
Somerset Staghounds at Cloutsham. The
“ Sport ” has passed through many vicissitudes
during its history, and where formerly thous—
ands of mounted followers were to be seen,
nowadays the Hunt can scarcely muster a
hundred riders.

It is stated that stag-hunting is so expensive
few can afford it, and whilst this is to an
extent responsible for the decrease in the
number of its adherents, it is also true that the
notoriety which the sport has earned since our
agitation commenced has made it unpopular
with many who formerly used to visit the
district for the hunting. The “sport” is
kept alive by a mere handful of local “ die—
hards ” who, rather than honour the humane
feeling of the day, prefer the sporting ethics
of the 11th century.

The Plight of theDeer.

For nearly a hundred years since the revival
of the sport in its present form the deer have
been more or less zealously preserved, and
of recent years the herds have assumed such
proportions that the Hunts are totally unable
to control them to the number tolerated by
the farmers. Consequently they have had to
augment the destruction of the deer by snaring
them ; in addition, the farmers, afraid that they
will forfeit compensation if shot deer are found
on their land, are shooting to scare and not to
kill, and great cruelty is being inﬂicted in these
ways.

The present state of affairs is most'deplorable,
and little can be done to ameliorate the dreadful
suffering of the deer until the Government is
prepared to sponsor the Bill which will make
stag—hunting illegal, and to place the wild deer
under the control of a responsible authority
who would watch their interests. The re—
muneration of game wardens would only
amount to a tithe of the money at present
expended by the Hunts as compensation for
damage done by the deer.

All animal—lovers could help by bringing
these facts to the notice of their M.P.s, urging
them to inﬂuence the Prime Minister to grant

rapid facilities for the passing of the Protection.
of Animals’ (No. 2) Bill to prohibit stag—
hunting. If the present Government had the
will this could be accomplished without
disarrangement of State business. When our'
country’s reputation for the humane treatment
of animals is considered and the volume of
public opinion against the sport the obduracy
of the Government is nothing less than a.
scandal.

A Stag Hunt Shop Week. ‘

The League is holding a week’s shop-
campaign in the West Country prior to the
resumption of stag—hunting. Previous efforts
to direct public attention to this iniquitous
sport have taken the form of public meetings.
and demonstrations, and the more lasting
publicity which the shop will obtain for the
cause will undoubtedly hasten the end.

A Barnet Resolution.

Congratulations to Councillor Mrs. Strug-A
nell, a member of the L.P.C.S., who success—
fully sponsored a resolution, at a recent
meeting of the Barnet Urban District Council
ensuring that any fox cubs found in the future
on Council property shall be humanely
destroyed and not handed over to the Enfield
Chase Hunt. Mrs. Strugnell has informed us
that she has received numerous letters and
post cards from all over the country praising
her for her action. The publicity has annoyed
the Joint Masters of the Hunt who, in a letter
to the local paper, stated that the cubs he
caught at the request of the surveyor were
humanely destroyed within half—an—hour of
their coming into his possession. It is a pity
he did not repudiate the assertion in a previous
press statement that the cubs were to be
turned—down for hunting. Nevertheless, his
statement is useful for it proves that fox—cubs
can be humanely destroyed without recourse to
hunting, which our opponents contend is the
only humane method.

A new member writes :——“ Although I have
horses and could hunt, I ﬁnd my thoughts
are far too much with the fox; also I enjoy
riding for the sake of riding, not for the sake
of dressing up and dashing round the country
with a lot of snobs who can’t even ride in some
cases.”

349

 

 




 

 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

August, 1936’

Pit Ponies’ Protection Society
Hon. Searez‘azy: D. JEFFREY WILLIAMS, 82, Boundary Road, London, N.W.8.

Pit Horses at Royal Show.

UCH effort and expense appear to be

involved in the exhibition of forty

pit horses at the Cardiff Royal Agri—
cultural Show this year. Horses from various
pits, carefully prepared we do not doubt and
looking their best, will compete at the show.
It is evident that the show is an opportunity
for propaganda from the colliery owners’
point of View, and the Press appears to have
been liberally provided with “ copy ” in
advance. Pictures of some horses have also

appeared.

A virtue is being made of an opportunity.
The usual gloss will be provided about the
care and attention lavished upon the horses
employed in the pits. We shall be told that
they are much better treated than horses on the
surface, but nothing will be said about the
absence of bedding in many of the underground
stables, and that in such stables the horses
never lie down. There are many miners in
South Wales who have never seen a horse lie
down in an underground stable as they habitu-
ally do in stables above ground. For one
thing, many horses are far too nerVOus to do so.
A colliery agent once told the writer that he had
tried in many of the collieries under his
control to induce the horses to lie down, but
had failed. He had tried every possible kind of
bedding, but with no success. It was a sore
disappointment to this particular colliery
agent that he had to admit failure, both because
he loved horses and because he realised that it
was a strong argument against using and keep—
ing horses below ground.

We shall be told very little about the very
heavy loads drawn by the horses in South
Wales’ pits. \Where the gradients are steep, as
they very often are in that coalfield, the horses
are obliged to go all out in tackling their loads.
So much so that some years ago the Divisional
Inspector, in an annual report,.advised that only
the best and strongest horses be used and the
greatest care be taken to see they were not

overloaded. We shall not be told of the very

frequent derailment of tubs in the pits of the
Swansea area. Again and again the ofﬁcial
reports call attention to this undoubted evil.
\Where loaded iron tubs each weigh over 35
cwt., sometimes two tons, it is not at all an

350

easy matter to get a train of five of these
iron trucks on to rails again if they have
plunged deep, perhaps into mud and water,
at the side of the track. The strain on the horse
that is unfortunate enough to be used to help
in re-railing those tubs is terrible. That is not
too strong a word‘to use.

We fully agree with a leader in the lVorz‘b
Mail, June 28th, 1938, that :

“ Excepting those who breed pit ponies
for gain, everybody outside the coal—
mining industry—and a great many people
in it—will sympathise with the latest
effort to ban the employment of horses
below ground. Even if man can defend the
enslavement of the horse he can never
completely excuse working him in conditions
wholly alien to Nature’s intentions. Such
explanations as are offered are unacceptable
now that eﬂficient systems of mechanical
haulage are available.”

The “ latest effort ” mentioned in the above
quotation is, we believe, a reference to our
Petition to the Minister for Mines to bring in
legislation to end the use of ponies in mines.
More than 25,000 people so far have signed our
Petition, and this fact has been published
in many daily and weekly papers during the
past weeks in connection with our campaign
for signatures. As previously announced,
our Petition will remain open for signatures
until the end of 1958, if not longer. We shall
require a really impressive number of signa—
tures, and copies of our Petition may be ob—
tained from the above address.

D. J. w.

 

Break/art by Me Roadrz'de.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

A ugust, I 938

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

The Humane Education SOciety

80, MOSLEY STREET, MANCHESTER, 2.

Prerz'dmt: GEORGE ARLIss.

Setretmy: ARTHUR MIDDLETON.

TEACHER AND CHILD—PERSONAL INFLUENCE
(T/yz'r article, written by a teat/yer, z'r pub/irked at the reqtmt of Hat/711.113 Brit/rattan Groupr.)

HOSE of us who teach older pupils,

may well ask ourselves when the boys

and girls leave us for the Training
College, the University, or some other sphere
of work, whether the education which they
have received has been on the right lines.
Has the study of languages and literature
inspired the student with the true spirit of
the humanities? Is there any danger lest the
science teaching of our schools may have
helped to produce types, who having parted
company with conscience, use their skill 'to
work evil?

The Real Meaning of Education.

Such questions are of paramount importance
if we do not believe education to be a thing of
the intellect alone, but the right direction of the
feelings and will, as well as the training of the
mind. It then rests with us to give to the
child, such ideals and belief as shall result in a
right attitude towards the world ; we must aim
at producing men and women of wide in—
terests and rightly directed sympathies.

French irregular verbs and mathematical
formulae will be forgotten in ten or twenty
years by the children to whom we have
taught them, and these children will then be
busy with other matters ; they will have taken
their places in the world—what will be their
aims and interests? Will they care for the
things that matter most? Will they use their
inﬂuence on the side of progress and justice?
Or, ignorant of the great movements of the
time, will they be apathetic and self—centred ?
It lies with the teachers to decide. Not all
children are fortunate enough to come from
homes where the intellectual outlook is wide
and moral tone deep. The school must
provide what is lacking; How best to do
it, is the problem.

Morality and Justice. -
The idea of moral instruction as a subject
to itself, does not appear to have won much

351

favour; it, is open to objections, except
perhaps in the junior classes. The teaching
of morality is, of course, inseparable from all
the ordinary school inﬂuence, but we are
concerned now with the question how best to
give humane teaching of a deﬁnite kind.
Children have a strong imagination and keen
sense of justice; one can so easily make them
sorry for the sufferer, and angry with the
oppressor. If only one could give them a
glimpse of the cruelty and injustice endured by
human beings and animals in the world
today, one feels that a noble army would be
forthwith enlisted to do great things in the
near future.

Teachers Great Opportunity.

The head of'a school has the opportunity
of reserving a time for talks on subjects
outside those of the time—table. Current
events, books, social movements, offer a wide
field of human interest, and here too is
perhaps the best time to dispel the ignorance
which blinds society to much of the cruelty
which goes on unchecked. There are ques—
tions of dress, the wearing of feathers and furs,
the various aspects of bird protection, cruel
sports, etc. Occasional talks upon such
subjects will arouse intelligent interest and be
of far—reaching inﬂuence. In many schools,
however, no place is found for them, and the
individual teachers must take such oppor-
tunities of giving humane teaching as the
ordinary lessons may, from time to time, afford.

Literature and History.

The literature teacher has many opportuni-
ties ; he may, from time to time, choose poems
in which the humane spirit is strongly marked.
“ The Ancient Mariner,” Burn’s “ Lines to a
Mouse,” much of Cowper, Blake, and \Words—
worth definitely teach sympathy with animals.
A class which enjoys Shelley’s incomparable
description of the soaring Skylark will realise
the tragedy of the caged bird.

 

 




 

 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

History rightly taught, will create a lively
interest in the progress of humanity and lay a
foundation for the future study of economics
and sociology. Thus, Without partisanship
and propaganda, we are teaching, in a sound
and wise way, how to build up our individual
and national life, free from strife, cruelty,
poverty and warfare.

Humanise the Lessons.

It rests then with the teacher to humanise
all that he teaches, remembering that “ we
work not for school, but for life.” In the
light of the terrible events which are happening
in the world today, we are seeing more clearly
than ever before, what are the things that
really matter. We need not be ashamed to

stand for humane ideals in education.
E. A.

Correspondence

To t/Je Editor of THE ANIMALs’ FRIEND.
HORRORS.

DEAR SIR,——There is no doubt that we have all
of us in our make—up a little something that enables us to
draw satisfaction from the contemplation of suffering.
Though it is a hard thing for anyone devoted to the
work of alleviation to admit, it is true that the appeal
that echoes the victims’ groans has a fascination about
it which the more digniﬁed approach does not com-
mand. It gets a hearing in a world where less pitiful
cries are lost in the hubbub; and it gets a hearing
among the right people, among those who will join
the ranks of the defenders and ﬁght most strongly to
end the cruelty which attracted them.

But the regidar patrons of a chamber of horrors will
always be those who enjoy the grisly detail for its
own sake. A consistent policy of scourging the
emotions will in time gather a select group of sensation-
wallowers, and its humanitarian harvest will be meagre.

Let us sometimes savour our discourse among
grown—up people with a little of the bitter herb that
grows all too profusely at our door. Let us not fear to
Speak of atrocities when we can thereby bring them to
an end. But do not let us be led on by the success of
this method to become the purveyors of unsavoury
morsels for the delectation of the depraved.

Yours faithfully,
GWENYTH GILL (Miss.)
51, Upper Vernon Road, Sutton, Surrey.

To t/ye Editor of THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND.
INTER—PROFESSIONAL ETIQUETTE.

SIR,——The proposed deputation of Anti—vivisectionists
to the Primate is so much waste of their valuable time.

The authorities of one profession never oppose the
authorities of another.

Church and Medicine are not going to be an exception
to this rule.

S. CLAUDE TICKELL.
Vicar of Latton-cum—Eysey,
Cricklade.

August, I 936’

To the Editor of THE ANIMALs’ FRIEND.
“ RINGING ” OF DOGS.

DEAR SIR,-——It is amazing to find that the barbarous
old custom of “ ringing ” dogs’ noses to prevent them
from worrying sheep still persists. Not only does the
dog suffer pain from the operation and the presence of
the ring, but there is the risk of further injury through
the ring becoming entangled in some ﬁxed object.

This cruel form of mutilation is illegal, and in the
past a number of convictions have been recorded
against persons causing suffering to dogs in this way.
Offenders are liable to a maximum penalty of three
months’ imprisonment, with a ﬁne of 7525 in addition.

Yours faithfully,
C. R. JOHNS,

Secretary, N ationa/ Canine Defenee League.
Victoria Station House, London, S.W.I.

To Me Editor of THE ANIMALs’ FRIEND.
THE SURPLUS CAT PROBLEM.

DEAR SIR,—I have just returned from an Animal
Shelter, haunted by the imploring eyes of a cat through
the glass lid of the lethal box. The usual laconic-
reply was given to my enquiry as to why it had to be-
there at all 2—“ A female—always having kittens—-
unwanted.” I could not offer a home as to ask the
caretaker to give it me would have been suggesting a
connivance at a breach of Shelter rules.

The conviction which I have held for years is borne
in upon me afresh that one of the bitterest and cruellest
animal injuscices is this eternal harsh discrimination
against female cats ruthlessly penalised by their sex.
If the two sterling rules to counter the surplus cat
problem, i.e., castration of the majority of males and
immediate destruction at birth of all kittens (save one
for humanity’s sake) met with decent observance,
there would be no need for this adult female massacre.
But they are in fact grossly neglected, and I wish a
contingent could be formed to endeavour to stem this
drive against them which has even infected the mentality
of children. I remember small children coming into
Paddington shelter at Chichester Place when I once
worked there, and holding out a lovely healthy young
creature at arm’s length, would ask me to “ do this ’ere
in please.” On my demanding “ Why? ”—the
anticipated reply came glib and pat—“ You see, she’s a
.vbe.”

I know there are some professed cat lovers who are
out apparently to encourage this kind of thing. To me
it’s atrocious. I would suggest that those who feel as I
do that it’s time a halt was called to this craze should
pledge ourselves (in supplementation of the two
familiar and fundamental safeguards which it is down-
right criminal to ignore) to three objectives. They
are perfectly practical, would cut at the core of the curse,
and it is only owing to the timidity and inertia of cat
lovers that they have hung ﬁre all this time. What we
must concentrate on therefore is to :

I. Support the prospective small taxation of cats.
This parliamentary policy is being pushed by the Animal
Section of the Women’s Guild of Empire, whenever
occasion arises, several M.P.’s being in favour, and it
is also a plank in O.D.F.L. platform.

2. Support judicious splaying under deep anaes-
thesia at an early age under qualiﬁed veterinary
surgeons.

352 ‘

 

. Q

 




 

 

August, 1938

The great thing in all neutering of either sex is to do it
before the sex instinct arises, as once awake it never
quite dies. The deprecation of certain veterinary
surgeons to female neutering is often traceable to their
lack of conﬁdence to perform the operation successfully.
The present somewhat prohibitive price is due to the
comparative rarity of the demand but the former would
decrease in ratio to the increase of the latter. I have
known and boarded dozens of happy, healthy, charming
female neuters, and have only known one who was
somewhat ﬁerce with other cats, not with humans.
There is no more offence against Nature in neutering
the female than the male cat, and outcry against
“thwarted motherhood,” if done before the sexual
urge awakes, won’t hear analysis.

3. Support the keeping of ordinary female cats in
limited range, and allow no breeding at all or very
seldom. Why not more cat runs? My own 4 females
have the run of the house, and a large wired out—
door: run with ladders, tree—tops and grass. They are
all decidedly middled—aged and never breed at all.
Their “ calling ” is of a very mild description and soon
over.

The assertion that sex is everything in animals’
lives is absolute tosh. I know I stand to be shot at,
and by many valued colleagues in my outlined policy
of female cat championship, but that is unavoidable.
A stand must be made in their tragic interests.

M. DUDLEY WARD.
88, Warwick Avenue, S. Harrow.

Childrens Competitions

(T/ye fol/owing earrzperz'tz'om were written by e/yz'la’ren
attending Somb Woodbam Sebool, Cbe/mrford, during
1938 Animal Welfare Wee/é.)

KINDNESS TO ANIMALS.

I think everyone should be kind to animals and birds,
because they cannot talk, and tell us what they want.
People should not have any animals if they know they
cannot take care of them properly. If people go away
for holidays they should take their pets with them.

If people have cats they do not always like to keep
them in the house at night, so if they do put them out
they should see that they have a shed with a warm box
inside to sleep in, and some milk. Even if cats do
have milk, good food, and somewhere comfortable
to sleep, they like a fuss made of them, and a kind
word sometimes too.

If people have dogs, and cannot let them off the
chain much, because of the traffic, their chain should be
a running chain. These are very light chains, which
allow the dog to run up and down the garden although
he is on a chain.

They should see that he always has fresh water, and a
clean plate to have his food on. They should also see
that his kennel is warm and clean inside, and that it is
not facing the cold wind. Dogs are very intelligent
animals if you are kind to them.

Dogs and cats that live in towns are not as fortunate
as those that live in the country, but their owners should
try to make it nice for them by taking them for runs
every day.

Most people are kind to dogs, and cats, but they
sometimes forget the hens, and chickens in the farmyard.

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Even the cows, and sheep want taking care of. People
who own horses should take care of them, and not
illtreat them.

People who shoot animals for sport are very cruel.

MY PET.

My pet is a cat and its colour is ginger and white.
He always likes a kind word or a game. His age is
about ten months. He likes his dinner on a clean plate
and his milk on a clean saucer. He is very young and
he plays with anything he can get hold of. He plays
with Mum’s hair because it is very long. He never
gets on the road but it would not matter much if he
did because there is not much trafﬁc. He is out for
quite a long time and then he comes in for a rest. If
he sleeps indoors all day you should not put him out at
night. If you do you. should leave the shed door open
and a comfortable basket inside, and also some food
for him to eat. He likes a nice bed as well as we do.
We would not like to be put out into the cold air,
so why should we do it to the cat? Some people do not
do that but others do! The cat is sometimes the
favourite animal in the family. '

A PET I SHOULD LIKE.

A pet I should like is a pony. If I ever had a pony
I should ﬁrst see whether the rain or wind could get
into his stable. I should also see if it had fresh water,
and clean food every day. A pony should have clean

straw. It also should be shod at the” proper time,‘

without letting it roam about shoeless. I should give
it a nice brisk trot every morning and evening. A
pony also should be brushed“ thoroughly to get the
dust and mud out. The pony likes a ﬁeld full of
long grass, not short grass at which he can not get.
When the pony crops the grass so short you should
put it into another ﬁeld. You should not ride a horse
till it gets wet with perspiration. The pony likes
also his stable cleaned out when you give him his
clean straw. You should let your pony be out all day
in the ﬁeld if possible.

 

NO FUN FAIR, BUT GLORIOUS
COUNTRY AND SEA.

Furnished cottage, 5 beds.
Electricity.
Main drainage.
Garden, Garage and Golf.

After August 27th.- Write: Pringle,

“ Cutty Brae,” Charmouth, Dorset.

 

 

 

353

 




.THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND August, 1938'

 

THE NATIONAL CANINE DEFENCE LEAGUE
The Pioneer Organization for the Welfare of Dag

Gives skilled treatment to over 60,000 ailing dogs and other animals every year.
Pleads the cause of the chained Or otherwise ill—treated dog, by the circulation of many
thousands of posters and leaﬂets every year.

Enlightens the public on all aspects of dog-welfare by press propaganda, cinema ﬁlms,
lantern lectures, essay competitions, etc.

Seek: to proniln't tbe ninz'yeetion of dogs.

Membership 23. 6d. upwards.
CHAS. R. JOHNS, Secretary, VICTORIA STATION HOUSE, S.W.I

 

 

 

 

FOR HOLIDA YS THIS YEAR TR Y r

ILFRACOMBE IN GLORIOUS DEVON!

Mrs. James Allen’s Vegetarian Guest House in this lovely W'est Country is now so well known as scarcely
to need advertising.

Established tbz'rty-tn/ayearr it is excl/tripe!) vegetarian.

Its liberal, varied, and well-balanced diet; the abundance of fresh fruits; delicious salads; conservatively

cooked vegetables ; the appetizing and nourishing soups, savouries, sauces, roasts, sweets, etc, have been enjoyed
by hundreds of guests.

DO COME, AND SEE FOR YOURSELF!

Send today for Leaﬂet giving full information. Terms are very moderate. '
Miss NORA ALLEN, 3 3, Broad Park Avenue, Ilfracombe, Devon.

 

BRIGHTON -& HOVE The Little Animals’ Friend

AN ILLUSTRATED MAGAZINE.
Price 1%d. post free.
Edited by JESSEY WADE.

 

Ideal Boarding Establishment

 

Near Sea and Downs, generous . STORIES, PICTURES, COMPETITIONS, ETC.
diet. Bedrooms, H. and C. Valuable in Schools and Homes.
water, gas ﬁres. Annual Subscription, post free, 15. 6d.

M04597”)? T677715- Bound Volumes 1937. Price 1/9 per post

artz'xtz'e and attractine Binding

Tarzﬂ : MR. & MRS. MASSINGHAM THE HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY,
16 & I7 NORFOLK TERRACE, BRIGHTON 80 Mosley Street, Manchester 2.

 

 

 

The League for the Prohibition of Cruel Sports
' 7, VICTORIA STREET, WESTMINSTER, 5. W.

. President: HAMILTON F YFE
Secretary: J. C. SHARP. Hon. Treasurer : CANON F. LEWIS DONALDSON, M.A.
THE LEAGUE holds that it is iniquitous to inﬂict suﬂering upon sentient animals for the
purpose of sport—“ pleasure! ” IT CONDEMNS fox—hunting, deer-hunting, otter-hunting and
hare-hunting, also rabbit- and hare-coursing. IT DEMANDS the substitution for the animal
of a Drag. IT PROTESTS against the “ blooding ” of children, and demands its cessation.
Annual Subscription 55., includes the Official Journal, CRUEL SPORTS, monthly.

 

 

 

 

 

 

354

 

 

 




 

August, 1938 THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

 

HUMANE EDUCATION IN SCHOOLS AND
HOMES WILL END CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

OUR SPECIAL CAMPAIGN IS YIELDING REMARKABLE RESULTS.
DONATIONS AND GIFTS ARE URGENTLY NEEDED TO EXTEND THIS PRACTICAL WORK.

LEGISLATION IS SLOW AND UNSATISFACTORY.

Please help The Humane Education Society to go ahead with effective and enduring
, work for Horses, Dogs, Cats, Birds, and all Creatures in need of friendship
‘ and protection.

Reporty, Leaflet: and Journal gladly sent on application to :—
The Humane Education Society, 80, Mosley Street, Manchester, 2.
GEORGE ARLISS, Prerident. ARTHUR MIDDLETON, Secretary.

 

The International League Of If You Are a Cat Lover You Should Join

St. Hubert The Cats Protection
(Bishop of Liége) ‘ League

This League has been instituted for the cessation The one SOCiety deVOted SOICIY to the welfare
of all forms of cruelty, including the slaughter and Of cats and kittens.
trapping of animals for human consumption and for

personal adornment. And for the purpose of bringing M EM B E R S H I P 5/ = P ER AN N UM 9

before all nations the realisation of the callous taking including the Society’s ofﬁcial organ,
of innocent life for sport and as a ﬁnancial proposition. “ THE CAT ,,

MEMBERS INVITED A . M b h, S b , . 6d
All information from :_ ssoc1ate em CI'S 1p 11 SCflpthﬂ 3S. . pCf annum.

The Organising Secretary, Write for Free Literature to :——The Secretary, 29,
137, Church Street, Kensington, London, W.8 l ChurCh Street Slough Bucks.

 

 

 

 

National Society for Abolition of Cruel Sports

4 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C.I.
Cbairnzan: H. G. CHANCELLOR. Han. Trearurer: LORD OLIVIER. Hon. Secretaiy: BERTRAM LLOYD

New Publication: Everyone should read.

DIGGING OUT and EARTH STOPPING

By Iady Rolleston
PRICE 2d.

 

 

T Remember the Nature Cure Hospital and
IN CASE OF SICI<NESS:-— _Nursing Home. It has been founded on
humane principles and it provides the kind of diet and treatment you would desire to have.

T . Please think of its needs. The majority of
11‘ TIMES OF HEALTH '_its patients are admitted below cost. Even
a small Annual Subscription from you would be a very great help.

‘63-65, Erpingham Road, Putney, S.W.15
Telephone: Putney 66oz.
Out-Patient Clinic: 41, BAKER STREET, WJ. Telephone: WELBECK 8348.

 

 

 

All yu/arcriptionr and communications for the Magazine .rlJoula’ be addrenea’ “ T/Je Editor, ANIMALS’ FRIEND,
Feat/.zerrtone Buildingy, Higb Holborn, London W C 1. ”

 




1HE 'ANIMALS’ FRIEND August, 1938

THE Doc’s BAZAAR

Music Hall, George Street, Edinburgh

TUESDAY, 29th NOVEMBER

 

 

Under the distinguished pat—
ronage of the Right Hon. the.
COUNTESS OF HADDINGTO
(President) and others.

In aid of
The Scottish Society
for the Prevention
of Vivisection

Hon. Secretary:
MISS N. IVORY

C entreéeez‘e'ees in money or geodi
will ée graze/fulﬁl reeeieed N O W
M lee C emxerzery

Pierrot—Fleurette and Polisonne

THE DOG’S BAZAAR, c/o Miss N. IVORY
IO QUEENSFERRY STREET, EDINBURGH

 

N O TE—Gzﬁs for fee Seez‘z‘z'yb Taz'l-Waggers’ Clue Stet/1 seed/d ée

addreysed 2‘0 “Mae,” Secretary at Me same address,

 

 

 

 

Printed in Great Britain by the Surrey Fine Art Press, Cavendish Road, Redhill, Surrey, for the
National Council for Animals’ VVelfare, 1, Feathetstonc Buildings, High Holborn, London, W.C.1.

 

 




