632”” S. 3424:.

 

 

IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
MARCH 2, 1900.

Mr. GALLINGER introduced the following bill, which. was read twice and
referred to the Committee on the District of Columbia.

 

For the Regulation of Scientiﬁc Experiments upon Human
Beings in the District of Columbia.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representa-
tives of the United States of America in Congress assembled,
That no physician, surgeon, pathologist, student of medicine
or of science, or any other person, shall make or perform
upon the body of any human being, in any hospital,
asylum, retreat, or inﬁrmary established for the treatment
of the sick, or in any other place in the District of
Columbia, any scientiﬁc experiment involving pain, distress,
or risk to life and health, Whether by administration of
poisonous drugs for the purpose of ascertaining their
toxicity, by inoculating the germs of disease, by grafting
cancerous tumors into healthy tissues, or by performance of
any surgical operation for any other object than 'the
amelioration of the patient, except subject to the restric-
tions and regulations hereinafter prescribed. Any person
performing, advising, or assisting in the performance of
any such experiment upon any new-born babe, pregnant

woman, lunatic, idiot, or patient, in any public or private

 




 

‘)

4-]

hospital, in any infants’ home, hospital, asylum, or private
house, or upon any other person whatsoever, shall be
deemed guilty of the crime of human Vivisection, and upon
conviction shall be liable to a ﬁne of not less than one
thousand dollars or imprisonment for not less than one
year, or both. If any such experiment shall be followed
within forty-eight hours by the death of the person thus
operated upon, or if it shall appear that death was
accelerated in any way by such experiment, the perform-
ance of any such experiment shall be deemed manslaughter
or murder, as the circumstanCes of the case shall deter-
mine; and all persons taking part therein shall be liable

to the penalties prescribed for such crime.

SEC. 2. That any physician or surgeon duly qualiﬁed to
practice medicine in the District of Columbia, or any
medical student, who shall perform any such scientiﬁc
experiment, or who by his advice or presence shall in any
way assist, aid, or abet the performance of any such
experiment, shall, upon conviction, be forever disqualiﬁed
from the practice of medicine in the District of Columbia.
Any person engaged in any capacity in the service of the
United States Government or in any of its departments
who shall perform, or by his presence, suggestion, or advice,
aid or abet the performance of any such experiment upon
a human being, shall, upon conviction, in addition to other
penalties herein provided, he forthwith dismissed from

Government service and be forever disqualiﬁed therefor.

SEC. 3. That any description or account of any such
experiment upon a human being, printed or published in
any scientiﬁc or medical periodical or book, or in any

reputable newspaper, shall be deemed evidence demanding




amt »—- ,7 ' r.. ,» far“ , ‘ .v: - —._ 1’" ‘ 2? : N. ; 'L" TZ‘ZYJ.‘ " "
~. . , -- - awn-5: {arm f‘ 1.. a. 1‘“ 29: N w .
. ->.¥ .- "I 1'“ I I V ' 17 ‘

3

immediate inquiry into all the circumstances of the alleged
crime, and, if corroborated by further evidence, shall be

accepted as testimony in regard to the offense.

SEC. 4. That an experiment performed upon a human
being with a view to the advancement by new discovery
of physiological or pathological knowledge shall, if it involves
pain or distress, be permitted only under the following
restrictions :

(a) The experiment must be performed only by a duly
qualiﬁed physician or surgeon holding such special license
from the Commissioners of the District of Columbia as in

this Act mentioned; and

(b) The subject of such experiment must be not less
than twenty years of age and in full and complete posses-
sion of all his or her reasoning faculties. N0 scientiﬁc
experiment of any kind liable to cause pain or distress
shall be permissible upon any new-born babe, infant, child,
or youth; nor upon any woman during pregnancy nor
within a year after her conﬁnement, nor upon any aged,
infirm, epileptic, insane, or feeble~minded person under any
circumstances whatever.

(c) The physician or surgeon proposing to make any
such experiment or series of experiments shall, at least
one week in advance, apply to the Commissioners of the
District of Columbia for license permitting such experiment
or experiments to be performed. Such application shall
fully state the objects and methods of the proposed experi-
ments, and shall be accompanied with the written permis-
sion of the subject of the proposed experimentation, agree-
ing thereto, signed in presence of two witnesses and duly

acknowledged before a public notary under seal.

 




 

 

 

4

(d) Upon receipt of such application, the Commissioners
of the District of Columbia shall cause investigation to be

made; and if it shall appear that the experiments involve
no risk to human life; .that the person oﬁering himself

or herself for experimentation is of requisite age, in full
possession of all his or her reasoning faculties, and fully
aware of the nature of the proposed experiment, and desires
that it be made, then the Commissioners may issue a
license authorizing such scientiﬁc experiment or series of
experiments as desired; but

(e) No such experiment shall at any time be continued
against the expressed will of the person experimented upon.

(f) The Commissioners of the District of Columbia shall
require a report to be made to them of the methods
employed and the results attained of each experiment or
series of experiments thus made. Such report may not
be made public until after six months from the beginning
of the experimentation, in order to permit the investigator
to present the results of his work in his own way. But
in the event of any untoward circumstance attending any
such experimentation the full details shall immediately be
reported and printed.

SEG.5. That nothing in this Act contained shall be
construed to prohibit or interfere with any properly con-
ducted method of medical treatment or surgical operation,
whether experimental or otherwise, having for its demon-
strable end and object the amelioration of suffering, or the re—
covery of the patient thus treated or operated upon.

SEC. 6. That nothing in this Act contained shall be
construed to prohibit or interfere with any experiments
whatsoever made by medical students, physicians, sur-

geons, physiologists, or pathologists upon one another.

 

 




 

 

 

NOTEs

1.. This Bill has but one object, the protection of those
who cannot protect themselves.

2. No reputable physician or surgeon can be aﬂeeted by
it. It will not interfere in the slightest degree with any
method of treatment designed ﬂyr the beneﬁt of the patient.
Read carefully Section 5 of the hill.

3. This Bill does not attempt to interfere with scien-
tiﬁc investigators who may claim the liberty of experi—
menting upon one another. Should it, however, appear
evident that, as a rule, they are dissatisﬁed with such
exemption from the protection to be aﬁbrded by the
law to others, then, in such case, the concluding section
will undoubtedly be struck out. It is inserted to avoid
the imputation of interference with scientiﬁc freedom, under
circumstances in which liberty niiay not be incompatible
with the public good.

4. It does not even prevent scientiﬁc experiments upon
other human beings (when these are not dangerous to
life), if the full and free consent of the subject shall be
ﬁrst obtained and attested by oath before a proper au-
thority. But it forbids absolutely all experiments productive
of pain or distress, or‘ dangerous to life and health, upon
children of any age, or the inmates of asylums, hospitals,
or public institutions; in short,-——upon those who from weak~
ness or ignorance cannot protect themselves, and whose
helpless condition ought to appeal to the common instinct
of humanity everywhere.

5. It is hoped that it may not become necessary to
publish to the world all the horrible evidence which has
led to the introduction of this measure. But ample proof
of the necessity for some restraining legislation in the
matter may be had by sending ten cents in postage
stamps for literature on Human Vivisection as practised in
America and Europe.

Address :
SPECIAL COMMITTEE,
AMERICAN HUMANE ASSOCIATION,
Post Ofﬁce Box 215,
PnorInENCE, R. I.

 

 




 




