THE

PIT PONIES’ CASE

A STATEMENT

Submitted by The Pit Ponies’ Protection Society to the
Minister for Mines in regard to the Limitation of Work-
ing Hours, Reduction in number of Accidents to
the Ponies, Improvements in their Conditions,

a Training Scheme for Pony Drivers, an In—
crease in the Number of H.M. Inspectors
of Horses in Mines, and, especially, the
Substitution of Horses and Ponies
in Mines by Mechanical means
of Underground Haulage
and Conveyance.

This Statement was presented on behalf of a Joint Deputation to the
Minister for Mines, Mr. E. Shinwell, M.P., on February 26th, 1951.
Sir Robert Gower, MP. (representing The Royal Society for the Pre—
vention of Cruelty to Animals, with Lt.—Col. J. C. R. Moore, M.P.),
introduced the Deputation which also consisted of Her Grace the Duchess
of Hamilton and Brandon and Miss Lind af Hageby on behalf of The-
Animal Defence Society; Commander J. L. Cather and Mr. R. H. Spurrier
on behalf of The National Council for Animals’ Welfare; Mr. D. R.
Grenfell, M.P., and Mr. D. Jeffrey Williams on behalf of The Pit Ponies’
Protection Society; and Sir Robert Newman, Bt., M.P., and Mr. Peter
Freeman, M.P., on behalf of the Animal Welfare Group of the House of
Commons.

A tom] (f 5o,82 3 barre; d/ﬂdeﬁl'EJ‘ are 5272!! employed
272 1,236 77227265. Over 480 77227265 do ’
7202‘ 71022 are [50722195.

Issued by THE PIT PONIES’ PROTECTION SOCIETY,
Presz'dmzf; SIR ROBERT GOWER. MP. 56(‘7’6fa7j3/I D. JEFFREY WILLIAMS.
82 BOUNDARY ROAD, LONDON, N.W.8.

 




 

 

 

 

A PONY GOES BELOW

Introduced to the Depths
and Darkness

time when it is dark, as the change then is less

sudden than when sent down. in bright daylight.
VVhen taken into the pit during the daytime he is
more or less blind on reaching the shaft bottom,
owing to the rapid change from daylight to semi-
darkness. After experiencing the peculiar sensation
of being lowered into the mine, he will emerge from
the cage in a state of confusion, and when he sees
the glow of the miners’ lamps darting about here
and there as the men walk along, and the workers
at the shaft pass to and fro, together with the noise
and rattle of chains and tubs, &c., his perplexity will
be increased. He will naturally be bewildered and
show great alarm at what is going on around him
and at What can only be dimly seen. So deep and
lasting is the impression on his mind that in some
cases the circumstances are never quite forgotten.
The experience of being lowered into the mine is
disturbing to many human beings on their ﬁrst Visit
below ground; it follows, therefore, that it must be
much more so to a dumb creature having less under-
standing. Now and again ponies are met with in the
mine who from their ﬁrst entry would not tighten
their traces, even to pull an empty tub, although
they had been willing and tractable and would per-
form fairly hard work on the surface. It can only
be surmised that such ponies have been subjected
to some terrifying ordeal, the seriousness of which
has affected them in such a manner that they are
rendered useless for work in the mine.

IT is better to take a pony below ground at night

Extract from an article by MR. R. L. LAYFIELD,
H.M. Inspector of Horses in Mines, in the Journal
of Armstrong College Ali-72mg Society, July, 1930.

 

 

 




 

 

THE PIT PONIES’ CASE

Single Statutory Shift in every
24 Hours.

WE would very strongly urge that no horse or pony should be
employed for haulage or any other purpose in mines for more than
one statutory shift in every twenty-four hours that is worked by
mlners.

The animals are compelled to remain underground day in, day
out, and year in, year out. When the signiﬁcance of this fact is
fully appreciated, it seems a hardship ever to compel one pony to
work a single extra shift in one twenty-four-hour period.

May we hope that this question will not be confused by
suggesting—«as has often been done in thepast—that the Mines
Inspectors can find no evidence of general and systematic over-
working of the ponies. ‘ ()verworking ” as deﬁned in ofﬁcial letters
is a vague and inconclusive term. It means, in effect, that no
pony can be overworked unless his physical condition (when he is
lucky to be examined by an Inspector) shows obvious signs of wear
and tear. In other words, ‘ overworking’ in this sense means that
the pony must have fallen over the precipice before anything can
be done to save him.

Double—shifting may not be quite so general to-day as it was
twenty years ago; but the surprising thing is that it should exist,
and should be allowed to exist at all.

Last year Mr. J. R. Rider, Secretary to the North of England
Veterinary Medical Association, said in a paper 011 Pit Ponies that
‘ the condition of the coal trade in the past few years had raused
financial stringency, and rendered it impossible to maintain a
reserve of pit ponies equal to all demands.” This meant that the
ponies had to be double~shifted, and while Mr. Rider claimed that
conditions had somewhat improved, he also stated that ‘ persistent
overworking of the ponies was one of the worst forms of cruelty.”

Lord Joicey, who is Chairman of a Company which controls
twenty—three large collieries, said in a debate on pit ponies in the
House of Lords in 1928 : ‘ You will find the long hours are
worked in the three—shift pits.’ Lord Daryngton, who is connected
with about twenty large collieries, said in the same debate that
‘it is very difficult, as any one who has any knowledge of mines is
.aware, to make perfectly certain that a pony does not work more
than a certain number of hours a day.”

 




 

 

45

That difﬁculty will be immediately removed, we suggest, when
the ponies” working hours, like those of the miners, are governed
by some kind of regulation.

In a letter conveying the reply of the Minister of lVIines,
Colonel Lane—Fox, M.P., to the Deputation which waited upon
him in November 1927 in regard to the conditions of pit ponies,
is the following sentence:—‘ It is admitted (and of course is
inevitable) that there are from time to time cases of overwork;
and whenever these cases are discovered by, or brought to the
notice of, H.M. Inspectors, immediate action is taken.7

Why should there be any cases of overwork from time to time,
and why should they be ‘inevitable”? The only answer to this
question, we submit, is that the absence of any kind of regulation
regarding the ponies’ working hours makes such cruelty possible.

How can H.M. Inspectors ‘discover’ these cases when their
visits to the mines are so very infrequent, and when, as often
stated in the Divisional Reports, the mines are visited by the
Horse Inspectors ‘at least once“ in the course of the year?
And it is often impossible for any Inspector to see all the ponies
along the scattered roads of the widely separated districts of one
mine during one visit.

Lord Gainford, and other authorities, have said that the
average working life of pit ponies is about seven years. This must
be much less than the working life of horses and ponies as a rule
employed above ground.

The Yorkshire Mines Report for 1927 states that ‘ the working
life of horses working double shifts is less than the average.’ The
Yorkshire Report for 1928 definitely recommends a single shift a
day for ponies, among other reforms, in order to reduce the high
rate of killed and injured ponies in that district.

‘Approximately 50 per cent. of the animals in the Division
have their working hours restricted to one shift of 8 hours per
day,” says the 1929 Northern Mines Report. The Report thinks
this is a matter for ‘ gratiﬁcation.1 It is also a matter for regret.

‘The pace at which the pony works,” says the 1928 Northern
Division Report, ‘matters just as much as the length of the
working day, and it must be remembered that in proportion as
the pace is increased so must the duration of the working day, and
the load, be diminished.’ ‘

As Mr. Robert Smillie, one-time President of the Miners”
Federation, pointed out in an interview with the Minister of Mines
in 1928, the pace at which pit ponies usually work is very much
faster than the pace at which ponies work above ground. This
fact is common knowledge among miners, but is not generally
known outside mining circles.

A double-shifted pony soon becomes a tired pony, and a tired
pony is often a forced and beaten pony. .

.

 

1‘

 




 

6‘

 

5

Mr. R. L. Layfield, H. M. Inspector of Horses 111 Mines, points
out in his 1ecent paper that ‘ ponies called upon to work double-
shifts daily soon get out of condition and break down sooner or
later under the strain. It 13 the1efore uneconomical to subject
them to the point of exhaustion and fatigue by excessive hald toil.
Harness will not ﬁt p1ope11y when ponies are in lean condition,
and this is a cause of sore backs and shoulders.”

It is not only ‘uneconomical’ to subject ponies to such extremes
of' suffering and exhaustion, it is also cruel and inhuman, and until
some sort of regulation is provided to prevent the possibility of
any such suffering, no permanent improvement can be effected.

This question of the work done by pit ponies must be considered
in relation to the conditions in which they live and work: the
darkness, foul air, d1y food, an unnatural underground environ-
ment in which they a1e imprisoned and which 1' iolates their instincts
in so many ways; it must also be considered in relation to such
( ircumstances as steep gradients, difficult roads, often with drivers
on piece- -rates supplying tubs to hewers, also paid by the ton;
relation to d1ivers who a1e ygoun , inexperienced, and untrainedn;
in 1elation to the high temperature, and sudden variations of
temperature in many mines, to the clouds of dust 011 haulage roads,
the low roofs and narrow clearance on roadsides, the long distances
they often have to pull their loads; and in such circumstances, as
pointed out by Mr. Layﬁeld, whe1e ‘the increased length of the
pony road may be overlooked until some indication is given by the
pony losing condition due to overwo1‘,’k and where matters are
decidedly 1voise when, as he says, ‘a driver 1s unskilled, irritable, or
stupid, 01 othe1wise imable to exelcise. due consideration f01 his
pony, when a pony may be‘ made to suffer f1om overwork, and
sufficient 1nj ury can be inflicted 111 the course of a week, or fim that
111atte1, in a day or two, to the point of1‘e11de1ing it Iinﬁt for the
lightest of W01 k and may take 11 eeks or perhaps months to repair.

It Is in relation to conditions, circumstances, and possibilities
like these that we must consider this question of the ponies hours
of work.

It seems almost certain that when the question is considered in
this light, one cannot avoid the conclusion that a regulation of
some kind to limit the working hours of pit ponies to one shift
per day cannot be rejected.

For many yea1s nine shifts a week have been worked by pit
hmses in the South Wales coalfield where the t1ams a1e large,
g1adients are steep, and where the loads d1a1111 by the horses a1e
consequently ve1y heavy. Because of these considerations a recent
South Wales Mines Rep01t suggested that the condition of the
horses In that coalfield should always receive very careful attention.
'1 he 1isk of inflicting Injuly and ha1dsl1ip by means of double— shifts
is too se1ious a matter to go unchecked by regulation, and the

 




 

 

6

practice of the better-managed collieries where the horses are
never double—shifted—should be generally followed.

Last year over 350 Lodges of the Miners” Federation, and over
92000 Branches of other Societies and Organisations, decided by
resolution to support this demand for a single—shift a day for pit
ponies. The Annual Conference of the Miners” Federation, held
in Blackpool in 1928, passed a resolution in support of a statutory
single—shift a day for the ponies. There is a very general feeling
that pit ponies should not be worked more than one shift a day.

In View of these considerations we confidently appeal to you,
Sir, to take the necessary steps to brii'ig about this very long-
delayed reform.

May we put forward a suggestion to ‘try out ” a provisional
stipulation that ponies work only one eight-hour shift in every
twenty—four hours for an experimental period of twelve months?
The question of provisions in regard to exemptions in the case of
emergencies could be examined in the light of the experience
gained during the experimental period.

It should be pointed out that Mr. R. L. Layfield, a recognised
authority on this subject and H.M. Inspector of Horses in Mines,
very strongly urges that there should always be spare ponies below
ground, even to the extent of one spare for ten employed, in order
to meet any emergency.

This matter of spare ponies is mentioned here in anticipation
of the objection that fresh ponies will have to be secured for the
experimental period.

We put this suggestion of an experimental period forward in
the hope that it may prove to be a practicable neXt step.

 

Accidents to Pit Ponies.

.The question of underground accidents is very often considered
as if it were entirely a matter that involved only the human beings
employed in mines. The accidents to the sub—human employees
in our mines are not always given the same attention. It is not
that one Wishes to distract attention from the question of accidents
to men and boys in any sense, but that one would like more
attention to be given to the killing and maiming of the helpless
creatures who have no voice whatever in the conditions Governing
their use in the darkness of their undereround existence. 6

. b

It is true that the rates of accidents in mines, taken as a whole,
are not so high where the ponies are concerned. In some respects,
however, and particularly in regard to fatal accidents, the rate iS
cons1derably higher. i

The rate of fatal and non—fatal accidents per 1000 p0nies
employed below ground in 19929 was 152. This rate of 152 ponieS
per 1000 killed and injured is sufficiently high to be described as

 

 




 

 

 

7

alarming. It means that 1 in every 6 was killed and injured
in 1929.

If the ﬁltaléty rate per 1000 ponies for 1929 were compared
with the fatality rate per 1000 persons employed below ground, it
would be found that the ponies were killed at the rate of 362 and
the men and boys at the rate of 1'27. There must be some
explanation of this disparity in the death-rate to the animals
taken in relation to the death—rate for persons.

FIGURES FOR FIVE YEARS.

(Comprising 1912, 1913., 1914, 1915 and 1920. Statistics
were not publishedfor the years 1916, 1917,
1918 and 1919.)

During the ﬁve years comprising 1912, 1918, 1914, 1915 and
1920, there is a record of 15,299 horses and ponies killed as a
result of accidents below ground in mines.

The total number injured during the same ﬁve years was
47,607.

The combined totals of killed and injured during these ﬁve
years came to the colossal figure of 62,906.

This ﬁgure represents an average of 184 per 1000 killed and
injured ponies during the period. In other words, 1 pony in 5 was
killed or injured or over 12,000 a year.

FIGURES FOR 1921—25.

During the ﬁve years ending 1925 the total number of ponies
killed in mines was 18,848, and in the same period a total of
37,672 were injured, according to the ofﬁcial returns. The killed
and injured put together make an appalling total of 51,520.

This total represents an average rate of 162 per .1000 ponies
killed and injured for these ﬁve years.

Put in another way, it means that 1 pony in 6 was killed and
injured on an average each year; or it might be said that an
average of over 10,000 a year were killed and injured for the period
in question.

FIGURES FOR 1927—29.

Taking the last three years for which ﬁgures are available
(stoppage took place in 1926), viz., 1927, 19:28 and 1929, the
returns show a total of 22,520 ponies killed and injured.

This total represents an average rate of 144 per 1000 killed
and injured. This is at the rate of 1 pony in 7 killed and injured.

The rate per 1000 killed and injured for each of the three years
was as follows 2——

1927: 140. 1928: 140. 1929: 152.

It will be seen that the 1929 rate is higher than the average
for the three years, and is only 10 below the terrible rate of the

 




 

8

1921—25 period. In common with the rate of accidents for men
and boys, the year 1929 shows an upward tendency.*

It will be generally conceded that these rates of accidents to
the animals employed in the unnatural conditions in mines are far
from being satisfactory from any point of View, and from a purely
humane standeint they are really deplorable.

FIGURES FOR VARIOUS DISTRICTS.

If we consider for amoment the districts in which the higher
accident rates obtain, it is very disturbing to ﬁnd in four of the
largest Divisions, namely, the North Midland, Yorkshire, South
Wales and the Northern Division, that the average rate per 1000
killed and injured in these districts was 150, Q16, 1.80 and 110
respectively for the same period.

Yorkshire has very nearly twice the rate of the Northern
Division (which comprises Durham, Northumberland and Cumber-
land).

The average fatality rate per 1000 for each of these four
Divisions during this period was as follows :—

North Midland Yorkshire South Wales Northern
37'5 60 37'5 80

In the matter of average fatality rate Yorkshire once more has
a rate that is twice that of the Northern Division, and one which is
very high indeed as compared with the North Midland and South
Wales Divisions.

When compared with the rates of killed and injured ponies in
Lancashire and Scotland (the fourth and ﬁfth largest coalﬁelds), the
rates for all the above four Divisions are seen in a very bad light.

For the three years ending in 1929 the average rate per 1000
killed and injured ponies in Lancashire was only 37'3. The rate
for both killed and injured in Lancashire is a little over half the
rate per 1000 killed alone in Yorkshire.

The rate in Scotland for the same period was 77 per 1000:
which is just over one—half of the average for all the coalﬁelds.

When the examples of Lancashire and Scotland are before us
for comparison, we cannot but be driven to the conclusion that
much needs to be done to bring the other, coal areas to seek for
measures of reform. Surely it is not impossible to ﬁnd ways and
means of bringing the various coalﬁelds to the level of Lancashire
and Scotland in this matter of accidents to pit ponies.

A quotation from the last Report of the Chief Inspector of
Mines with regard to underground haulage accidents in general
will apply in the case of the accidents to pit ponies.

 

 

. * Figures for 1930, obtained when this Statement was being printed, Show a
stlll hlgher rate of 160 per 1000 ponies killed and injured. The rate for 1930 is
only 2 below the appalling rate for the 1921—5 period.

 

 




 

 

The Report said :

‘ One of the first steps to be taken towards reducing the num-
ber of accidents which occur during haulage operations is to
improve the conditions under which those operations take place.”

With a view to improving such conditions, the Report goes on
to enumerate reforms such as the provision of greater width and
height of roads, keeping them clear of obstructions, better lighting
on roads inbye, lack of supervision, and so on.

Attention must be given to the following matters if many of
the numerous accidents to the ponies are to be reduced.

(1) BADLY LAID AND UNSUITABLE ROADS.

A good picture of what happens on a bad road is given in the
Northern Report for 1922. A question is raised as to ‘whether
more could not be done to improve the pony roads by better laying
of the rails and turns, more especially on the putting roads.
Longer and heavier sections of metals properly laid, on good
sleepers could be used, so that tubs are not so frequently coming
off “all fours,” thus wasting the time, labour and temper of the
putter. . . . Cases have been noted where the gradient of the seam
has not been utilised to its full advantage. Wet mines with soft
ﬂoors require the bottom of the pony haulage roads to be kept
either properly ballasted up or penned with wood, in order to avoid
the large holes between the sleepers which add so much to the
pony”s work.”

Mr. R. L. Layﬁeld, one of HUM Inspectors of Horses in Mines,
in a recent paper also suggested the following reforms with regard
to pony haulage roads:

(a) Better penning of ﬂoors along which ponies have to walk,
especially on soft ground. .

(b) Filling in of open spaces at crossings and sw1tches to
prevent ponies getting their feet fast, thus causing sprains and
fractures to limbs.

(c) Illumination of places by ﬁxed lights where ponies have to
turn, the limewashing of the sides of roads at such places, and
made of greater width to facilitate the spragging of tubs and
enabling ponies to turn without displacing timber supporting the
roof, thereby liberating overhead stone and causmg acc1dents
which sometimes prove fatal.

(d) Pony roads should be kept clear of loose stones and other
material such as timber, miners” picks and drills, &c., often found
where ponies have to walk.

(2) LACK OF SPACE UNDER Roors AND ON SIDES or ROADS.
Much attention is given to these matters in the various
0 o u . ,. 1 ‘
D1v1s10nal Reports. The 1929 Yorkshlre Rep01t st1 ongly empha-

sises the need for ample width and height in horse roads, the

 




 

10

necessity for even floors free from loose stones, and the substitution
of limbers for chain gears. . . .’

The North Midland Report for the same year also calls atten-
tion to the handling of tubs ‘on roads often of restricted area,
subject to falls (of ground) and poor lighting,” and suggests "the
provision of roads securely supported and of ample height and
width, and . . . the lighting of roads by fixed lights, particularly
at pass-byes, junctions, 81c.”

‘ The difficulties and dangers of driving are well known, and I
do not think there would be so many accidents if the roads were
wider,” said the Yorkshire Report for 19925.

‘It should be the aim of all managers and ofﬁcials,” says the
Northern Report for 1925, ‘to maintain their roadways so that
there is always a safe clearance between the tub and the roof or
sides.” This Report gives an instance of a pony driver who was
killed at a Durham colliery while detaching his pony in a siding
where there was only 4: inches clearance between the roof supports
and the top of the tub. His pony could not have been only
49 inches higher than the tub, and must have been rubbing under
the roof in this place.

(8) HOLES BETWEEN SLEEPERS.

The digging of holes between the sleepers on pony roads should
be prohibited. When the roof over part of the pony road becomes
low owing to the pressure of the roof or insufﬁcient ripping, it is a
fairly general practice to dig holes between the sleepers. As far
back as 1921 the Northern Report urged that ‘ when it is found
that more height is required for the pony, this should be made in
a proper manner, and not by merely digging holes between the
sleepers.” Such roads are really like hurdles in some cases, are a
cause of injury to the ponies" feet, and contribute to the number of
accidents to the animals owing to stumbles and falls.

(4) DOUBLE-SHIFTING.
’7‘ ' t . . . .
. ihls practice 1s not only a hardshlp (and is cons1dered as such
in another section) but also a cause of accidents to the ponies.
‘ . a u a o
1 he l927 Yorkshlre Report stated that ‘ the workmg life of ponies
working double shifts is less than the average." The double-shifted

pony becomes a tired pony and thus liable to stumble and be ever"-
taken by tubs or to fall gomg up steep inclines.

(5) RUNAWAY TUBs.

Runaway tubs on gradients are a frequent cause of accidents to
ponies as to men and boys. Much of what is recommended with
regard to this matter in the various Reports will, if adopted, tend
to reduce acCIdents from this cause where the ponies are concerned.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

11
(6) DERAILED T UBS.

‘Tubs are far too frequently derailed, resulting in accidents,
not only by derailment but (not infrequently) in the process of
their being re-railed.’ (North Midland Report, 1928.)

‘Six cases of injury resulted from keeping the horse to the
tram while putting the tram back on to the rails after it had been
derailed. . . . It is better to detach the horse except perhaps on a
steep gradient.” (Swansea Report, 1929.)

Horses are very often attached to derailed trams in order to
pull them to a position parallel to the rails from all sorts of im—
possible angles. The forcing of horses to pull such derailed trams
is often a matter about which the less said the better. The
horses suffer considerably when called upon to strain themselves to
the utmost in trying to move many of these trams thrown off the
rails, particularly if the rails are ‘ packed’ much higher than the
ﬂoor of the roadway or when the wheels are half buried in a gutter
or in dust or small coal.

(7) STEEP GRADIENTS.

‘ A good number of the injuries received by horses are due to
the use of chain gears on gradients which are too steep. . . . The
breaking of lockers and lockers falling out of the wheels on inclined
roadways where chains are used account for accidents which might
be prevented if limbers or shafts were substituted for chain gears;
with limbers or shafts the horse is able to throw its weight against
the load going downhill, but with chain gear the horse is not able
to exercise any check 011 the motion of the tub, and in consequence
sometimes get run down and injured.” (Midland and Southern
Report, 1997.) ,

The 1929 North Midland Report refers to a special inquiry
that is being made into the high death and accident rate toathe
ponies in that Division. It points out that the chief causes of the
accidents to the ponies are: (a) ponies being overcome by tubs on
gradients, (b) ponies run into by tubs, (0) falls of roof and sldes.
It calls for reforms in connection with shafting, harness, loading
and road conditions, proper ‘lockers, and closer supervision and
discipline. We suggest that:

(a) Ponies should not be allowed to work on steep gradients if
a reduction in the number of accidents is desired. Mechanical
means of haulage should always be used on all roads the gradlent,
rise or dip of which exceeds a certain prescribedllmit.

(b) Ponies should not be attached before loaded tubs going
downhill in order to retard or to ‘break’ them (or to ‘back’
their weight against the load), whether limbers or shafts are used
or not. This practice is a very proliﬁc cause of acc1dents to the
animals.

 

 




 

12

Training of Pony Drivers.

A reading of the Divisional lV’Iines Reports during recent years
will at once show how extremely urgent it is that young; pony
drivers in mines should be carefully trained and supervised. This
matter has been 111'11'ed for many years, both from the point of view
of 1'educi1111' the number of accidents to the boys themselves and in
1'e11'ard to the proper treatment and (are of the ponies. ‘Vhen it
is pointed out that one— fourth of the boys under sixteen e11111loV'ed
below 111'111111d were killed and injured in 1909, the serious nature of
this question cannot be too st111n11lV emphasised.

In the 1907 Report of the Nor thL1 11 Division we read :

‘ In this Div 1sio11 11e11lV1all the boys who start work unde1'11'1'ound
are e111ploV'ed 1111 some 1‘11] 111 of haula11'e work, which 1s undoubtedly
ot a d:11111e1 1111s nature for a new sta1te 3. et at how many mines
is there. any real organised attempt at sV1 1.sten1atic t1'ai11i1111'. '9 °

It 1s not surprisin11 that a whole page of this Report is 11iv e11 to
a description of :1 t1'ai11i1111' scheme for boys under sixteen 1111 the
s1n'fa1e 111 the VVestphalian co: 1ltields of Germany, in which country
boV's under sixteen are prohibited by statute from 1111111111111 under—
ground in mines, and concludes by saying; that ‘such a 1"on1111e-
hensive scheme of training is worth the serious and careful attention
of all collierV' co111panies and oliicials. °

The same Reporbt 11'1111s 1111 to say: ‘Many accidents :'11e due to
ponies bein1r spoiled by badly trained drivers and to the uneven
condition oi the floor ot the 111:1d11:1Vs Ponies should be 1L11l:11 ed
wher'eV er 111:11 t11ablL bV' 1:'11efullV1 planned 111LLhan11al haula11'e 7

D1 alin1.1; with under11'round haula1.1;e accidents to boys under
sixteen V"e:11s the 19‘; 8 Report of the North Midland DiVision said:
‘ As has been pointed out 111 previous Reports, a number of these
acLidents arise tlnou11'h lack of trainin11' and expe1ienc.’e This
Report also 1les11'ibes the training received 7(72d11911'207171d till they
a1e eighteen V'e: 11's 111‘:11_1;e byt the boys over sixteen emploV ed 111 the
mines of the Ruhr coallield of Germany.

The North Midland Report ior19‘99 (ontains this passa11e: ‘In
consider 1111.1; the question of haula11'e accidents an aspect whi1h to11es
itself upon the attention is that of the l11111L 1111111111t11111 of accidents
11111'11nrin11' to boys and youths. . In my 11er 1111 1101 should
become :1 pon'V d1"'i1e1 or 11'an1.1;er11i1til he has had at least three
months expe1ien1e under11"1o1n1d.’

IJasth, the provision of a thoiou11'h trainin11' s1heme for 1111111
drivers is V'1"11V st1'on11'lV' 1111.1;ed in the paper by Mr. I :'1_Viie,ld, Cto
which 1'ete'1en1e has many times been made IIe :1dv1111at11s ‘a
sV1st1mati1' method of "t1ainin11' boys to hemme useful and inte 1lli11'ent
pony drivers I11 la1'11'e mines tl1e1e is room for experienced trainers
for both boys and ponies. \o boy should be permitted to have sole
1h:11'11e of :1 pony until he has been 1ert1f11d capable by the trainer.

“711 would also 111'1.1;e that no boy should be allowed to have sole
1'h:11 ge of :1 ponV until he 1s also sixteen years of age at l1 1ast.

 




 

13

General Care and Treatment.

Under this heading will fall such important matters as the
provision of adequate and suitable bedding, proper feeding and
watering of the ponies during working hours, better ventilation of
underground stables, suitable and well-fitting and clean harness,
proper shoeing, the taking of injured as well as sick ponies up to
the surface for treatment in every possible :ase if the injury or
sickness is likely to last more than six days, and the withdrawal of
all the animals suffering from broken wind or any disability or
incurable disease. Injured and sick ponies should be certified as fit
by a veterinary surgeon before resuming work. Steps should also
be taken to ensure that all ponies withdrawn from mines receive
proper care and treatment.

In possibly hundreds of mines no bedding is provided for the
ponies. A South \Vales colliery agent once tried in vain to
persuade horses to lie down by providing them with various kinds
of bedding. Last July, a South Wales miner with considerable
experience of West Grlamorgan and the Rhondda mines, said in a
letter that he thought the absence of bedding for pit horses was
general in that part of the country. In other coalfields the ponies
are often without bedding, and Mr. Laylieldk paper points out
that young ponies at first refuse to lie down and that if this
becomes a habit, a pony"s useful life is curtailed, that his legs will
stiffen and that he will walk from the stable in a stilty, stumbling
manner. h/Ir. Layfield also says that ‘many ponies do not rest
their limbs sufficiently because of the absence of bedding.”

As has often been pointed out in various Divisional Mines
Reports and again in Mr. Laylieldls paper, ‘much pain can be
inflicted and a young pony made prone to become a shy worker
when unsuitable harness is used.” A very great deal is said on this
matter by Mr. Laylield, and also in regard to proper shoeing, that
should be closely followed out in practice.

May we suggest that more should be done to ensure the general
observance of the many useful recommendations made in Mr.
Layﬁeld"s paper and in other unpublished lectures by the Mines
Home Inspectors? Perhaps the Minister of Mines will be able
soon to carry out his promise to publish a general paper to meet the
requirements of all the various coal fields using ponies underground P

Increase in the Number of Horse Inspectors.

The frequency with which the phrase ‘all the mines in the
Division were Visited at least once during the year ’ appears in the
various Divisional Reports is sufficient evidence of the great in—
adequacy of the inspection of the horses and ponies used under—
ground in mines.

If all the mines were visited and all the horses were examined
at least once in every month by a sufficiently large number of
Horse Inspectors, it is doubtful whether even this more frequent

 




 

141

inspection could be regarded as satisfactory where not a few mines
are concerned.

H.M. Inspectors dealing with general mine conditions cannot
be expected, we feel sure, to look after the ponies and their special
conditions. Some of the Divisional Inspectors now complain that
they cannot be expected to undertake more work, and the Miners’
Federation is pressing for a larger number of Mines Inspectors to
cope with the serious demands from the point of View of the men’s
safety 111 mines.

We suggest that the number of Horse Inspectors in mines
should be in the ratio of one Inspector t01 every 8000 ponies
used undergiound, and that eve1y horse and pony should be 111-
spected, as wellas the pony haulage roads where they are employed
at least once in every three months.

Mechanical Haulage to replace Pit Ponies.

It will be agreed on all sides that the ideal solution of the pit
pony question is the general introduction of mechanical haulage
and conveyance to takeb the place of animal haulage.

We would like to ask that much more be done than is
attempted at p1 esent to overcome the dittic ulties 111 the way. The
mining indust1v has been reluctant to try new methods oi mining
and conveying u11derg1ound, and within 1ecent yea1s some of the
Divisional Mines Reports have called attention to se1ies of ponies,
each serving the other, on long stretches 011 haulage roads. In such
cases auxiliary haulage was not used even though it seemed a clear
' advantage to put in a tismall mechanical hauler 01 (rear. The Inspect—
015 had to urge the g1 eater use ofmechanical haulage 1n the Y 01 kshire
coalfield in 1999, in order to reduce the excessive overworking of
the ponies at twelve collieries.

This question, naturally, is a very complicated and highly
technical one. Nevertheless, we have the authority of the Ministe1
for Mines (to quote f1 0111 a letter sent in 1eply to a deputation in
Novembei, 1927) for saying that,‘ ﬁom the purely engineering
standpoint, the introduction of mechanical haulage to the total
exclusion of pit ponies is possible 111 the g1 cat ma.) ority of mines, but
it was thought to be imp1acticable from an economic point of view.

Since 1927 much has taken place 1n mining practice to justify
a fulleI consideration of this matter even from an economic point
of View. The rapid 1nc1 ease in the introduction of undergiound
conVeyOIS is one instance of the change that has tak'ben place.
Another is the change in outlook with 1ega1d to the prospects
offered by mechanised mining and the supporbt O‘iven to the efforts
in the diiection of the mechanical conveyance of coal in mines.

The well— known Report of the Committee of the South and
West Y o1kshlre Coal Owne1s and the Midland Institute of Mining
Engineers 011 Underground Conveyors—a Report described by the

 

 

 




 

 

15

Present Minister for Mines as ‘full and valuable ’——is another in-
stance of the tendency that is sometimes called ‘mechanisation.’
The advantages set out in this Report in regard to the saving in
costs and in the reduction of accidents may be quoted as follows :—

1. Increase of output per man at the coal face. 2. Saving in
roadways to be made and maintained. 8. Elimination of rail
laying on the face. 44. Reduction in repairing and ripping.
5. More systematic working which reduces delays. 6. Rapid
advance of the face, which allows the collier to work under fresh
roof and reduces the chances of accidents. ‘

‘From a general analysis of the information which the Com—
mittee has been able to collect,” says the Report, ‘ there appears to
be no doubt that there are many conditions of present—day mining
where the use of underground conveyors can be thorongly justiﬁed
on account of both saving in cost and safer working conditions . . .’

‘ In many cases it has been found necessary, ' for economic
reasons, to ﬁnd means for reducing costs, with the alternative of
closing down the colliery. The use of conveyors frequently effects
a saving of more than 16‘. per ton, and thus enables seams to be
worked which would otherwise be abandoned.”

The plea put forward in the 1928 Report of H.M. Chief
Inspector of Mines for the general use of conveyors, on the ground
that they would eliminate the very serious number of fatal and
non—fatal haulage accidents in mines, should also be considered in
the light of this tendency. It reads : .

‘ In the haulage of coal, managers seem to be wedded through-
..out the length and breadth of all mines to the stereotyped system~
of conveying coal in tubs drawn either by horses or a mechanically ‘
operated wire rope. . . . I should like to see it largely superseded
by a much more extended use of belt conveyors; haulage accidents
would thereby be very largely eliminated. . . . Accidents in mines
are very largely due to the haulage of coal in tubs. . . . A system
of conveyance by belts is of tremendous import in the reduction of
such accidents, and should be encouraged to the utmost extent.
. . . Steep gradients are no bar to its use, and it requires much
less supervision and power.”—Page 64:.

It is worthv of note that in a report of a discussion on the
above-mentioned Report of the Yorkshire Coal Owners, the
Chairman of the Committee, Mr. R. Clive, said that one important
advantage not referred to in the Report was that of better
ventilation where machine mining had been adopted. In the
accounts in the technical papers from time to time of the changing
over from the usual methods to what is called ‘ machine mining’
and the use of conveyors, the advantages set forth are substantially
the same as the ones. given in the above two reports, including the
matter of better ventilation.

We should like to know how far it is possible, and the rate at

 




16

which it is possible, to dispense with the use of pit horses and
ponies, not only by the mo1e general introduction of the conveyor
system, but also by the greater use of the various kinds of haulage
gears and haulers as well as the electric battely locomotive. r’

In Febr'ualy, 1930, the following paragraph appea1ed in an
a1 ticle 111 the [7011 and Coal [males 166712670:—

‘Although extensixely employed 011 the Continent for a con-
sideiable numbe1 of years, it is only comparatively 1cce11tly that
the small haulage gear (f1om, say, 41 to 7 hp.) has leceived any
measure of consideration in this country. Such gears, however
have much to recommend them. Being easily portable, they can
be ﬁxed to a column for more or less temporary service, or placed
on the roadside when their duty is of a more permanent character;
indeed, there are few pits where such forms of haulage gear could
not be turned to proﬁtable account. I11 many cases they could
take over the work at present done by ponies and the1 eby effect a
conside1able economy, whilst thei1 use, at such points as loading
landings, would effect a material saving in manual laboui.

In View of the examples provided by the fourth and ﬁfth
largest coalﬁelds, namely, Scotland and Lancashire, in almost
entirely dispensing with the use of pit ponies, it would be i11-
teresting to know what are the reasons for the adoption of
mechanical haulage in Lancashire as compared with, say, Yorkshire,
Notts. ., Derbyshire and Durham? The Principal of the VVigan
lVIininO‘ College wrote in alette1 some years ago that the under-
g1ound conditions in Lanca shire we1e not 11101e favou1able to the
introduction of mechanical haulage than in any othe1 co oalfield.~
Lancashiie and Scotland are responsible for about one- -fifth of the
total output of coal in this country.

May we urge that a Departmental Inquiry be authorised to go
into the question of alternative mechanical haulage in mines to
that of pony haulage? The whole question is a supremely i111-
p01tant one, and much good may be done by the pooling of the
eXpe1ience in mechanised mining at such an inquiry. May we
appeal to the Minister of Mines to consider the setting up of a
Departmental Committee to go into every aspect of this question
and to obtain information from and to compare notes with other
coal—producing" countries in this matter?

Perhaps the rlliozéng Congress Journal of September, 1930, put
things 1athe1 bluntly when it said:

‘ C’D‘Ihe mechanisation of coal mining is being forced by economic
pressure; and opposition . . . will have no more effect than that
of coach owne1s to the early railways.

This p1 ocess can be, and we st1 ongly feel, needs to be speeded
up whe1e the mines of this country are conce1ned.

London : Strangeways, Printers.

 




WITH DRAW - THE
PIT PoNlesx

50,800 are prisoners in 1,238 Pits. They never see the light of day.
10,000 are killed and injured each year.

Thousands work two 8-h0ur shifts per day. Hundreds of mine stables
have no bedding and the ponies cannot lie down.

ABOLISH THE USE OF
PIT PONIES

AND REPLACE THEM BY MECHANICAL HAULAGE.

Over 480 Mines have no Ponies

Animal (and Rope) Haulage in Mines is officially condemned,‘ as dangerous.

SAFETY, ECONOMY AND EFFICIENCY ARE ON THE SIDE OF

MECHANICAL ALTERNATIVES TO PIT PONIES.

N.B.—-Please demand that all Councils and elected Public Bodies obtain their coal
supplies for Gas and Household purposes from Collieries at which no Horses and Ponies

are used.

Will you also ask Branches of Societies or Organisations to which you may belong
to pass Resolutions demanding that County Councils, City and Town Councils, Urban
District and Rural District Councils, obtain their coal supplies for School, Institutional
and Household, as well as for Gas-producing purposes, from Collieries at which no

Ponies are employed?
Private users of coal should also insist on getting coal from pits where no animals

are used.

For further particulars and leaﬂets apply to:
D. JEFFREY WILLIAMS, Secretary,

PIT PONIES’ PROTECTION SOCIETY,

82 Boundary Road, London, N.W.8

A List of Mines at which no Horses and Ponies are employed will be sent on application.
(A double—crown poster with wording similar to that on this leaﬂet can be obtained for display.)

The cost of printing and circulating leaflets is heavy and contributions to our funds
are very gratefully received.

 




 




