NOTE: In view of certain statements. circulated unofﬁcially to members
during the past year, it is felt that the following particulars in con-
nection with the resignation of Mr. A. A. MacGregor from the
presidency of the League should be brought to the attention of the

members.
Chairman, L.P.C.S., March, 1935.

 

1. In January, 1934, a representative of “The Leader” called
at the office of the L.P.C.S. and invited the Secretary to contribute an
article in sarcastic vein to his paper to which the Secretary of the
British Field Sports Society would be asked to reply. The Secretary
suggested the President, Mr. A. A. MacGregor, should be approached
to write the article, and this he agreed to.

A day or two later the President ’phoned the Secretary stating
thathe had been approached ‘by “ The Leader ” to write an article, and
asked if he had any leaﬂets written in sarcastic vein. The Secretary
sent the President two leaﬂets, one entitled “ANOTHER BAD FOX,”
AN ARTICLE IN “PUNCH” OF FEB. 25TH, 1925. REPRINTED
BY PERMISSION OF THE PROPRIET'ORS OF “PUNCH.” This
leaﬂet was out of print.

The Secretary was not informed that the President intended to
use the incident described in the leaﬂet, but understood that he meant
to use the STYLE in which the incident was depicted. Mr. MacGregor,
however, used the incident, describing it as happening “only the
other day,” which description was the basis of an attack on the
article by the Secretary of the British Field Sports Society. (See
"‘ The Leader,” dated Feb. 27th, 1934.)

2. At a meeting of the Executive Committee held on Feb. 28th,
the President, without due notice, raised the matter at the very
commencement of the proceedings and charged the Secretary with
withdrawing the leaﬂet without notifying the sitting Committee, and
said that he could not work with people who did this kind of thing, and
either the Secretary went or he did. Before the Secretary was able
to state his case fully, Mrs. Rowland proposed a resolution “ that Mr.
Sharp be given a month’s salary in lieu of notice,” which resolution
was also supported by the President and Mrs. Joseph. The remain-
ing five members of the Committee voted against the resolution,
whereupon the President left the chair and, with Mrs. Rowland and
Mrs. Joseph, left the meeting.

3. On March 2nd, Mr. MacGregor wrote resigning from the Pre-
sidency and the Executive Committee of the League, and Mrs. Row—
landd and Mrs. Joseph resigned from the Executive shortly after-
war 5.

4. On .March 15th, at the Annual General Meeting of the League,
the followmg printed statement was distributed to members of the
League:—

COPY.
29, Christchurch-road,
London, S.W.2.
TO MEMBERS OF THE L.P.C.S. March 6, 1954.

Dear Fellow—Member,

It is my duty to lay before you the reasons why several members of
the Committee are not seeking re-election.

We were looking forward after a year of excellent work and great publicity
against hunting to ﬁnish it with a peaceful Annual Meeting, per-
meated with good-will.

Within the last three weeks, however, an issue of vital importance has
arisen. An article in “The Leader,” dated February 27, and written
by our President at the invitation of the editor, was replied to by
Mr Fitzwilliam, Secretary of the British Field Sports Society. This
article answered none of the points raised by our President’s article.
It was devoted solely to attacking one point, and thereby rendering
the article worthless. This was made possible through the assistance
given to Mr. Fitzwilliam by our Secretary.

It transpires that our Secretary has been in private correspondence with
Mr. Fitzvvilliam, as a result of which the former, at the instigation
of Mr. Fitzwilliam, wrote saying that he would withdraw from pub-
lication and circulation one of our League’s leaﬂets. This he did,
quite unknown to the Committee, and with no intention of even
letting members of the Committee know that he had done so. This
action was all the more reprehensible because the facts, as stated in
the leaﬂet, can be proved.

The President rightly considered this a matter too serious to be passed
over, and decided that no longer could he work with a Secretary
capable of having secret correspondence with the secretary of our
opponents.

After a lengthy discussion in Committee last February, at which our
Secretary was given every opportunity of explaining himself, it was

IE. ‘& O. E.

 

 




 

put to the members as to whether the League should dispense with
the services of our Secretary. The majority of Committee, however,
preferred to treat the matter lightly, and voted against the President.

As I have said, I am not seeking re—nomination for Committee, but feel
it my duty to place these facts before you to ask your opinion as to
whether you are willing to leave the conﬁdential business of the
League to a Secretary who is so ready to place our weapons in the
hands of our opponents at their request.

Mr. Fitzwilliam is secretary of the British Field Sports Society, which
has behind it a comfortable capital that we cannot boast. This
capital is provided for the purpose of furthering the interests of the
hunting fraternity. -

Our Secretary sees nothing wrong in his action. Therefore, if such
private dealings are to go on we might as well hand over the League

at once to our Opponents.
Yours faithfully,

(Signed) MAY ROWLAND.

At this Annual Meeting Mr. MacGregor repeated his statements of
February 28th against the Secretary, but before the latter could reply.
the meeting had to 'be closed owing to the room being required for
another meeting the time then being 6.40 pm. No cther room could be
obtained to continue the discussion.

5. At the following meeting of the Executive Committee, held.
on March 26th, there were 51x members present. The Secretary read
a copy of his letter to Mr. MacGregor, dated March 16th, as follows:—

At the next Executive Committee Meeting to be held at the Livingstone

Hall, Westminster, on the 26th inst., at 5 p.m., it is proposed that I
state my case in reference to the withdrawal of the leaﬂet: “Another
Bad Fox,” with a view to clearing up this matter in the eyes of our
members. In View of this no doubt you would like to be present
at the meeting.

Mr. MacGregor neither replied to this invitation nor attended this
meeting. '

However, the Secretary stated his case with reference to the
withdrawal of the leaﬂet, and produced copies of the letters he wrote
to the Secretary of the British Field Sports Society, when the latter
stated that he was present, as Secretary of the Hunt, on the occasion
on which the alleged incident occurred, and that “no attempts what—
ever were made to smoke or burn out the fox.” The Secretary
summed up with the statement that in the interests of the prestige
of the League he believed he should not continue to circulate a leaﬂet
which contained information alleged to be untrue. The leaﬂet was a
very old one, and he did not think that the Committee would have
raised any objection to its withdrawal.

The Committee felt that while the accusations made against;
the Secretary in the printed leaﬂet issued by Mrs, Rowland were not
justiﬁed, they agreed that the then Committee should have been
informed of the fact of the withdrawal of the leaﬂet, and also that an
apology was due to Mr. MacGregor. The following resolution was
carried by three votes to one:—

The Executive Committee of the League at its ﬁrst Meeting (26th March,
1954) after the Annual General Meeting, and to which the late Presi—
dent, Mr. A. A. MacGregor, had been invited, carefuly investigated
the accusations made against the Secretary at the Annual General
meeting in regard to his alleged “secret and private correspondence ”
with the British Field Sports Society,” and are of opinion that there
exists no justiﬁcation or foundation for such a charge. The Secre—
tary has expressed to the late President his sincere regret in supply—
ing him with a leaﬂet which was obsolete without notifying him at the
time thatgit had been withdrawn from circulation after correspondence
with the British Field Sports Society.

,. . The above statement was sent to the members of the League with

the April issue of “ Cruel“ Sports,” and the Secretary wrote a letter
of apology to Mr. MacGregor, as follows, which was not acknow-
ledged:——'

_ 3 , _ , March 27, 1954.

Dear Mr. MacGregor,

At the Executive Committee of the League held last night, the Com-
mittee discussed the matter of the statements made in the leaﬂet
issued by Mrs. Rowland, and also in your remarks at the Annual
General Meeting, to which I replied. The Committee felt that while
the accusations in regard to my alleged secret and private corre-
spondence with the British Field Sports Society were not justiﬁed, they
agreed that they should have known the facts of the withdrawal of
the leaﬂet, and that an apology was due to you.

May I express my deep regret that you were not notiﬁed that the leaﬂet:
“Another Bad Fox,” was Withdrawn from circulation.

[E. & O. E.

w




"ﬂ

I am asked by the Executive Committee to express to you their grateful
thanks for your services on the Committee, and to assure you that
they greatly regret the circumstances which led to your w1thdrawal..

6. At the next meeting of the Executive Committee, held on
April 19. there were eight members present, but one member had left
when Mrs. Dudley Ward handed the Chairman an envelope stated to
contain ﬁfty—nine signatures to a requisition for an Extraordinary
Meeting of the League in May, for the purpose of enabling the mem—
bers to discuss the following Resolution, and pass, it thought ﬁt :—

That in View of certain disclosure made at the last Annual General
Meeting, this League cannot retain the services of the present Secre-
tary, and wishes that Miss Amos should be appointed (pro tem.) in his
place. In the event of this being agreed upon, four members shall
be elected to ﬁll the vacant seats on Committee.

It was agreed by ﬁve votes to one that the list be referred to the
Chairman and the Secretary for scrutiny and report to the next
Committee Meeting.

7. At the next meeting of the Executive Committee, held on
May 17, there were ﬁve members present, and the Secretary
reported that the signatures of ﬁfty—ﬁve qualiﬁed members appended
the requisition forms. A resolution was carried by three votes (the
Chairman and another member not voting) that

The Secretary informs Mrs. Haines (who acted as sponsor for the petition,
although not a League member at that time) that the requisition for
an Extraordinary Meeting “ for the purpose of enabling the members
to discuss the following resolution and pass, if thought ﬁt,” are not in
order, because the Resolution is not in accordance with the Rules of
the League. (See especially‘Rule 5.)

8. On May .25 Mr. MaCGregor wrote the following letter to the
Secretary of the League:—

Dear Sir,—1 am led to understand that the Committee of the L.P.C.S.
has decided to evade its responsibilities in respect of convening an
Extraordinary Meeting on the pretext that “the Resolution is not in
accordance with the Rules.”

As it is quite obvious that those now in control have not the slightest
idea of constitutional procedure, I write to point out that members
have a right to submit resolutions that might even be CONTRARY to
the Rules. The only ground on which the Committee can now
legitimately prevent the calling of the meeting is that the meeting
was not requisitioned in accordance with the Rules—a totally different
matter. So long as the Requisition is in order (which is admitted
in correspondence in my possession), the Committee is obliged to
call the meeting, and has no mandate to deny to the members the
right of discussing matters they may wish to discuss. The only
right the Committee has in the matter is to oppose such resolution
at such meeting duly requisitioned. -

As the conduct of the Committee in this matter has now brought me
forward in defence of the rights of the members against unconstitu—
tional practice on the part of the League’s ofﬁcials, I ask that you
immediately supply members of Committee with a copy of this
letter. The position is now too serious to excuse further delay on
the pretext that the Committee does not meet again until next month.

As a word of warning to the Committee, I now state emphatically that, if
it fail to convene this meeting in June, I shall resort to a method
that will compel it to do so, and that at the same time will result
in a certain type of publicity that will not be altogether pleasant.

The requisition has been received in conformity with the Rules; but the
Committee now wishes to decide what the members shall discuss
under their requisition. This is a piece of impertinence.——Faithfully
yours, (Sgd) ALASDAIR ALPIN MACGREGOR.

9. Legal advice was sought and giVen as follows:——

(1st) It is apparent that an officer, whether the Secretary or any other,
cannot be dismissed by a Special Meeting, and in so far as the
proposed Resolutions have that object in View, they are ultra vires,
but I doubt whether it could be said that a Special Meeting is
precluded from discussing resolutions reﬂecting on the conduct of
the League by any of its ofﬁcers or Executive, and. if it so wishes,
passing any resolution recommending to the annual meeting that a
certain course be taken or that a certain ofﬁcer no longer
has the conﬁdence of the members assembled in Special
Meeting, etc. It would appear that a Special Meeting has
no Executive power; it is merely advisory and can only recom—
mend. This being so, the proposed RESOLUTIONS ARE TECHNI—
CALLY INVALID,’ but it seems that it would be going too far to
take advantage of such technical error, and that the proper course
would" be to put the proposed resolutions as advisory by amending
them so as to conform with the Rules. This can be done at the
Special Meeting by someone moving that the following words be
inserted at the beginning of each Resolution, viz.: “ That this Special
Meeting recommends to the next Annual Meeting.”

(2nd) The terms of the proposed resolution are certainly very extra-
ordinary. and appear to me to amount to a general attack on the
Governing Body of the- Society, the election of whom I gather took

[E. & O. E.

 




3

place at the recent Ordinary General Meeting. If the Committee
refuses to call an Ofﬁcial Extraordinary Meeting, THERE IS NOTHING
TO PREVENT THE MEMBERS AGGRIEVED FROM ORGANISING
AN UNOFFICIAL GENERAL MEETING.

x 10. At the next meeting of the Executive Committee, held on
June 14, there were eight members present, and the Secretary
reported that he had received a letter from a relative of Miss Amos
(who has been employed in the ofﬁce of the League for the past nine
years) that she had a nervous breakdown, and would have to be away
from her duties for some weeks.

The Secretary felt it his duty to report that he had good reasons
for believing that this illness was due largely to the acticn of Mr.
MacGregor’s supporters in placing Miss Amos’s name, without ﬁrst
consulting her wishes, on their requisition form for an Extraordi-
nary Meeting. Immediately the requisition form was brought to
the notice of the Secretary he was informed by Miss Amos that she
[did not wish to be involved in the controversy, as her sympathies were
not with the supporters of Mr. MacGregor. '

11. Meanwhile it was brought to the notice of the Executive
Committee that the following printed circular was being sent to
members of the League:—

[COPY.]
29, Christchurch-road,
London, S.W.2,
June 22, 1954.

To Members of the League for the Prohibition of Cruel Sports. _

Dear Sir (Madam),—It is necessary to inform you that the Committee of
the League has refused to hold an Extraordinary Meeting though
requisitioned in accordance with the Rules.

More than sixty signatures (including those of at least six Life membersl
for the purpose of calling a meeting in May were presented at the
April Committee Meeting, and an acknowledgment was sent that they
were in order and the meeting would be held.

Knowing, however, that the inset in April “Cruel Sports,” asserting that
there was “ no justiﬁcation or foundation ” for a charge made against
the Secretary of disloyally withholding from the Committee cor—
respondence between himself and the Secretary of the Field Sports
Clubb was a lying statement, the Committee feared to face the
mem ers.

In order to refuse the demand for a meeting, they resorted to a quibble,
stating that it could not be held, as the Resolution. “ to discuss . . .
that the League cannot retain the services of the present Secretary,”
was not in accordance with Rule 5, which gives the Executive Com-
mittee the power to appoint ofﬁcials. (This Rule does not state that
the Committee has the sole right to dismiss ofﬁcials.)

Certain members have taken legal advice, and the law sees no justi—
ﬁcation for refusing a meeting on those grounds.

Do you realise the audacity of a Committee elected by the members to
represent their views declaring that, no matter what disloyalty an
ofﬁmal may be guilty of, the Committee intends to retain him,
regardless of what the members may decide?

If the League were a commercial concern and a paid ofﬁcial had sup—
pressed excellent advertisements at the demand of a rival ﬁrm, would
he be given even one day’s grace? Only the animals’ interests are
at stake in this instance, so any lax methods must be tolerated to
“save the face ” of the Committee at the expense of a President who
has given unstintingly his valuable time and energy voluntarily to
the interests of the League, as evidenced by the Annual Report.

It must seem incredible to you who have only the animals’ welfare at
heart to learn that there are members of the Committee who, instead
of appreciating the services of Mr. Alasdair MacGregor, the organiser
of that most successful Peterborough demonstration, are proving
their eagerness to suppress him because he “steals their thunder."
Obviously, their “amour propre ” is more important than our cause.

If you consider this a “ wild ” suggestion, I refer you to the Minutes of
the Committee Meeting of February 27 for justiﬁcation.

The excuse is being made that the League cannot afford to indulge in
Extraordlnary Meetings. Can it afford to lose a Committee member
who re51gned on this issue, who was the donor of £50 to the League
last year to help to save it from ﬁnancial disaster?

The only means of_ procuring a meeting is by prosecuting the Committee.
We have no_t1m.e for such proceedings, and therefore advise you to
pay no monies into the League, except the nominal subscription of
25. 6d. to enable you to attend the next Annual General Meeting
and replace the present Committee by worthier members.

Yours faithfully,

(Signed) MAY ROWLAND.

 

Printed by ARGUS PRESS, LTD., Tudor Street, London, E.C.4, and issued privately by the

League for the Prohibition of Cruel Sports, 101, Chandos House, Palmer Street,
Westminster, S.W., for circulation to its members. '

[E. & O. E.

 




