 

 

 

[My [937 Price 351'.

THE

ANIMALS
F RI END

 

 

 

 

Photo by Go/den Hair Retrial/em. [ John H .7 Stone

THE NATIONAL COUNCIL FOR ANIMALS’ WELFARE
1 FEATHERSTONE BUILDINGS, HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, W.C.]
51/5501))!sz for One Y ear, p051 free, 3/6

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND is pnlelirbed mont/oly l7] tloe National Conneil for Animalr’ Welfare at

I Feat/Jerrtone Buildingr,

HzglJ Holborn, London,

W. C .1, and all communication: regarding tbe

magazine rlyonld . be addrerred to ﬂee Editor

 

 

 

Editor: ROBERT H. SPURRIER.
Vol. XLlll July. l937 NO. 7
C O N T E N T S .
- Page Page
THE “ WRONG IDEA” AGAIN. Tloe THE LIBRARY TABLE—REVIEWS AND
Editor . . . . 220 REPORTS ' . . 2 3 3
ANIMAL BILLS IN PARLIAMENT . . 221 LOST DOG. Helen T7”6Z’€[)’dﬂ . 238
OF DOGS, DRUGS AND DOCTORS. Lillie OPENI ING OF FLYING SCHOOL FOR BIRDS 240
Le Pla . . 222 NATIONAL COUNCIL FOR ANIMALS’
TWENTIETH— CENTURY TORTURE CHAM- \X’ELFARE . . 241
BER. Basil Harvey—jameJ . . 223 PIT PONIES PROTECTION SOCIETY . 242
DICKIE HARE—T HE STORY OF A NATIONAL SOCIETY FOR ABOLITION OF
FOUNDLING . 225 CRUEL SPORTS . 243
TAH— CHAH, THE SPEEDY. HaiperCoiy, SCOTTISH SOCIETY FOR PREVENTION OF
F. C. G. S. . 226 V IVISECTION . 244
THE BRITISH ROBIN. Cat/inert D. LEAGUE FOR PROHIBITION OF CRUEL
Bridgmater . . . . . 228 SPORTS . . . 24 5
COUNTRY DAYS. Hadron Read . . 2 3o HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY . . 246
FROM ONLOOKER’S NOTE BOOK . . 231 PERFORMING AND CAPTIVE ANIMALS
THEOPHILE ALEXANDRE STEINLEN. DEFENCE LEAGUE . . . . 247
E. G. Barlow . . . . 232 CORRESPONDENCE . . . . 248

 

 

You Can Help I

One Of our good friends, a keen supporter Of animal
welfare work, who wishes to remain anonymous, has
hit upon an excellent method of advertising THE
ANIMALS’ FRIEND. He has been good enough tO
insert at his own expense in six successive issues of
the local paper the following notice :—

You can help to reduce the sufferings involved
in the slaughter of animals and birds for food,
and in the destruction Of animal pests; you can
help to promote the spread of kindly feelings
towards all sentient creatures, by subscribing to
THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND, I, Featherstone Buildings,
High Holborn, London, W.C.1, published
monthly, price threepence, postage %d.

The Editor will be glad to send a free specimen
copy on application.

We are very grateful to our anonymous friend for
his interest and help, and heartily commend this
method of making THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND more widely
known to the general public and tO the attention of
other subscribers and friends who may be wondering
what they can do to increase the circulation of the
magazine.

“ Diet in Relation to Disease.”

This is the Arnold F. Hills Memorial Lecture for
1936, given by M. Beddow Bayly, M. R. C. V. S.,
L. R. C. P., and reprinted in pamphlet form from Tbe
Vegetarian Non/r. In it the case for a vegetarian diet
is presented from the point of view of Health by a doctor

. of medicine who understands what he 18 talking about.

His arguments and statements are backed by convincing
and well documented evidence. The text of his
lecture is the apt quotation from Hippocrates .——-

I maintain that research on the subject of diet
is that one of all Objects of medicine most worthy
Of our closest attention. It will contribute much,
both by re— establishing health and preserving
those who are at present in normal health by
providing them with a sound constitution.

Copies of this valuable contribution to the subject
with which it deals may be had from the London
Vegetarian. Society, 6, Duke Street, Adelphi, WC 2.
No price is indicated on the cover but we imagine
that it can be had for 6d.

R.H.S.

218

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

l
l
i
u

    

[ll/y, I 93 7

Notes and Comments

Zoo Escapes.

Asif determined to disprove the Zoo man’s conten-
tion that if it were possible to offer the Zoo animals
either their freedom with its risks or their present
condition, they would wish to remain in the zoo.
Teddy, the Malayan bear of the Dudley Zoo, whose
recapture after escape from
captivity we recorded last month,
was reported in the News—
C/erzz'c/e of 22nd June to have
again regained his freedom.
Evidently he had no wish to
remain in the Zoo, despite
all'its amenities and conveniences
as he is reported to have pulled
“three-inch staples out of the
specially built crate in which he
was imprisoned” in order to
better his condition. The
news of his escape, we are told,
5 7_,_ was made known only to the
‘Wy keepers and the police, and

a Teddy was eventually discovered
asleep in the branches of a tree near the Zoo. This
time, instead of being stunned with an iron bar,
netted and tied with ropes, he was shot by a keeper as he
slept. Apparently the authorities were convinced
that he would never take captivity “ lying down.”

The re-capture by London Zoo attendants of atame
vixen, which escaped from its pen on June 19th was
reported in the lVezm—C/Jronic/e of June ZISt.

An Intolerable Outrage.

We understand that certain well advertised stores in
London and the provinces are engaging performing
animal turns for the coming Christmas season. This
constitutes, in our opinion, an intolerable outrage on
the animals and on the public and lies‘ altogether
outside the limits of legitimate business. We trust that
in every district our readers will take up a firm stand
against this means of animal exploitation, and express
their decided and effective objection to any exhibition
of the kind. A business that cannot attract the public
necessary to its success by the quality of its goods and
services, without providing a circus entertainment in
order to outbid its competitors, must in our opinion
have a pretty poor reputation as a business concern
and the sooner it goes out of business the better.
Will readers of THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND please take
action as indicated at once, before going away on
holiday and before it is too late P

Fellowship with Animals.

In an article published in Tbe Star of June 24th the
Rev. Leslie Weatherhead points out that“ there may be
a fellowship with animals far more beautiful than our
modern idea of subjecting them to the domination
of man.” That fellowship has been well illustrated
in the lives of the Saints of bygone days, so many of
which have been recounted in the pages of this maga-
zine by Marion Reid. Mr. Weatherhead tells one such
incident of our own days in the life of Sadhu Sundar
Singh. It is told by an eyewitness and hap-
pened when the Sadhu was a guest of a forest officer

219

THE ANIMALS FRIEND

and his wife. The Sadhu sat on the bottom ledge of
some stone steps used by the water carrier, and near
to the jungle edge, deep in meditation and prayer.
“ My friend saw him seated there ” says Mr. Weather—
head,
and then, to his horror, he saw a leopard,
crouching near, and ready to spring. My friend
tried to cry out, but felt paralysed with fear
and could not move or shout.

The leopard sprang short. Its head seemed to be
touching the Sadhu’s feet. Then, said my friend,
the Sadhu stretched out his hand and caressed
the beast’s head, and uttered some words which
could not be heard. Shortly afterwards the
Sadhu returned to the bedroom, lay down on
his mat on the floor and went to sleep.

The Girl and the Leopardess.

Another true story was recounted by Mr. Weather-
head in the following paragraphs :—

A friend of my wife, cycling down a jungle
path in the Nilgiri mountains, jumped off her
bicycle at one point because, sprawling across the
road was a huge leopardess, with her cubs playing
round her, and a leopard sitting on its haunches
at the roadside. ‘

She said that her ﬁrst impression was “ What
beautiful creatures!” She waited a few minutes,
and then, with splendid courage, pushing her
bicycle, walked past them.

The leopardess lazily blinked her eyes at the
human interloper but never even rose to her feet.
The leopard took no notice. The girl got on
her bicycle and rode away.

I believe the courage of the girl brought about
an atmosphere of fellowship that induced mutual
trust, and that, if she had shown fear, her fear would
have made a psychic atmosphere (for fear is the
most infectious thing in the world), which would
have made the leopardess dangerous.

Mr. Weatherhead confesses to a “ queer feeling ”
that he has at times, “that in our fellowship with
animals we have missed our way ” and this experience
confirmed his idea of “ what our fellowship should be.”
This is the idea that many of us have held for many
years past, and it is good to know that it is being
accepted by some of our well-known preachers and
teachers.

National Parks.

There can be little doubt that in the provision of
National Parks, in which Britain lags lamentably
behind, a great opportunity would be given to explore
the possibilities of this fellowship. In a Canadian
oﬂicial News Letter we read that “ One of the great
attractions of the parks is the variety and extent of
their wild life. All National Parks are maintained as
sanctuaries for wild animal and bird life, where no trap
may be set and no gun fired. The absence
of pursuit or violence of any kind has freed animals
from the fear of man, and in many parks they have
become quite tame. Deer and elk approach to within
a few yards of human habitation, and on the mountain
highways Bighorn sheep allow visitors within camera
range.”

Isn’t it about time we humanitarians got really con—
cerned over here about the provision of National
Parks, before it is too late?

 

 

 




 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

ﬁlly, I93 7

The “Wrong Idea” Again

BY THE

HE persistence of the “\Vrong Idea”

I in friends and supporters of the animal
welfare movement is one of those
aspects of life that
“ times. It is so persistent

and so wrong; it crops
up where it is least ex—
pected and is given ex-
pression to by so many
sincere and well—inten-
tioned people ; it is inimic—
al to the progress of
the movement—a grave
disservice to both human

 

and animal welfare.

This outburst is occasioned by the receipt
of a letter from an esteemed correspondent
(and by hearing others in the movement give
expression to a similar opinion) in which the
writer, in her desire to protect the weak and
helpless, advocates the penalty of ﬂogging in
cases of cruelty to animals. In our opinion,
the idea that the remedy for this-~0r any——
form of cruelty is to be found in flogging the
offender is mistaken and pernicious; as
mistaken and pernicious as is the idea of
the vivisectionist that the cure for the disease
and pain of the human body is to be found
through the infliction of disease and suffering
on animals. One is as reasonable as the other
———or as unreasonable! It is the idea of the
stability of a house divided against itself;
the idea that Satan can cast out Satan, and we
believe—as it has been so well put by Henry
S. Salt—that “ no graver mistake can be made
by so-called ‘lovers of animals ’ than asking
for recourse to the lash in cases of cruelty——
that is of appealing to one barbarism as a means
of repressing another.”

The demand for the lash is a grave mistake
because the history of ﬂogging shows that,
as a deterrent to brutality, it is ineffective.
Much evidence to this effect could be quoted;
it is enough for the purposes of this article
to cite one or two opinions which should
have the effect of making advocates of ﬂogging
“think again” and therefore a little less
likely to be swayed by that exaggerated
sentimentality which is so characteristic

make one almost despair at ,

EDITOR.

of them when they “ see red ”— a signiﬁcant
phrase in this connection. The late Sir
Edward Clarke was an eminent K.C. Speak—
ing in the House of Commons in opposition
to a ﬂogging bill at a time when he occupied
the post of Solicitor General, he opposed the
lash on the ground that :

No one had ever succeeded in proving that in

any class of offence the punishment of ﬂogging had

a deterrent effect.
Lord James of Hereford, another eminent
KC. and noted law ofﬁcer of the Crown,
held a similar opinion and gave expression
to it in the House of Lords when he stated
that throughout the whole of his parliamentary
life he had been an opponent of ﬂogging as a
punishment. “ I believe it amounts to torture
and has no good effect in the end,” he added.
Add to this the testimony of the Law Times
that “ Flogging at no time has ever assisted
in the suppression of crime ” and you have a
weight of experienced judicial opinion that
cannot be set aside lightly.

The demand for the lash is not only a grave
mistake because of its ineffectiveness as a
remedy, but also because the forces of cruelty
and retaliation, which the idea and act of
ﬂogging release, are likely to lead to an increase
in crimes of violence. \Who would deny
the truth of the statement by Dr. Douglas
Morrison that “These instruments of torture
breed in the heart and mind of the community
that spirit of callousness to human suffering
which produces crime ”P The effect of
flogging on the victim, oft—times, is to make him
determined to get his own back and at the ﬁrst
opportunity he is likely to wreak his ven—
geance on some victim, animal or human,
who comes in his way. “ You make a
perfect devil of the man you ﬂog,” said Mr.
Justice Hawkins, shortly after his retirement
from the Bench. The effect on the man who
carries out the sentence can be to some extent
estimated by the statement of one who spoke
from experience when he said : “ It is far from
an agreeable task to watch the face and figure
of the ﬂogger as he executes his sentence.”

But it may be argued that the use of the
birch on young offenders convicted of wanton

220

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

. ﬁlly, I937

cruelty is in a different category. We well
remember, only a few years since, listening
to. Mr. Clarke Hall, the well—known Old
Street magistrate, relate his own experience
of the futility of birching for juvenile offenders.
It was not that he was sentimentally opposed
to corporal punishment ; he had an open mind
on the subject when he started his career and

on occasion had recourse to the use of the birch. '

But the repeated appearances of boys before
him—boys who had already been birched—
charged with renewed offences soon led him
to dispense with the weapon altogether,
on the ground of its ineffectiveness. Then
there is the important point raised by a writer
in the Lancer in a review of Mr. Salt’s essay on
1796 Flogging Craze :

In this connexion it has also to be borne in
mind that judicial whipping, whatever be its
value as a corrective of criminal tendencies, may
in many cases have permanent psychic effects of a
peculiarly undesirable kind, especially when the
punishment is inﬂicted on boys about the age of
puberty. This is an aspect of the question about
which advocates of corporal punishment generally
know very little, and they may therefore proﬁt by
perusing the sensible remarks which Mr. H. S.
Salt devotes to the point in his recently published
essay on Tbe Flogging Craze.

Here we must leave this uncongenial
subject. It has to be discussed because so
many voices are calling to—day for a revival of
ﬂogging and among them are the voices of
people in the animal welfare movement. \We
would appeal to them to review this subject
in all its aspects, and to consider whether in
their advocacy of brutality to end cruelty
they are not, in effect, “ Selling the pass.”
“ Violence and vice is a matter of degrees and
there is no descent so slippery and insidious
as cruelty.”

Animals Bills in Parliament

The Cinematograph Films (Animals) Bills.

HIS Bill, as reported in THE ANIMALS’
I FRIEND, passed its Second Reading
in the House of Commons early in
April and was referred to a Standing Com—
mittee. It has just been reported back to the
House so drastically amended, we understand,
that little of the original Bill remains.
The position is serious but we are not
suHiciently well informed at the time of going
to press to make further comment on the

771

”1—.

, r. ‘WV—;;.—.----m m_s_. .. H... ..._

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

situation beyond pointing out that the support
given to the Bill by THE ANIMALs’ FRIEND
was conditional on no weakening amend—
ments being admitted. If weakening amend—
ments have been accepted by the promoters of
the Bill, then our support of it must be with—
drawn.

The Exportation of Horses Bill.

. The present Bill as amended in the
House of Commons, and given a second
reading in the House of Lords on June 22nd,
extends the existing prohibition against the
exportation of unfit horses so as to include
animals that fall into any of the following
categories :—

(a) heavy draught horses

(b) vanners, mules and jennets, and

(c) asses
unless certiﬁed by the veterinary inspector
to be in his opinion not more than 8 years of
age and of not less value than £25, £20 and'
£3 respectively according to the category
into which they fall.

The Bill gives power to the Minister of
Agriculture to vary these amounts if found
necessary. _

Circus horses and class horses intended
for breeding and exhibition, together with
foals at foot accompanying them, are exempt
from the above provisions regarding age and
value. As regards circus horses, we under—
stand that the exemption applies only to horses
in use as such—but none the less we regret
the exemption.

The International League to Prevent the
Export of Horses for Butchery takes the view
that with the passage of this Bill, practically
everything for which the late Miss A. M. F.
Cole was agitating will be obtained. For the
past few years the great bulk of the trafﬁc has
been in heavy draught horses and under it no
heavy draught horse can be exported if he is
over 8 years of age and of less'value than 7525.

The Protection of Animals (No. 1) Bill.
This Bill, which has been before the House

of Commons, on and off, since 1896, seeks
to prohibit the hunting and coursing of
animals released for the purpose, after being
accorded a ﬁrst reading without a division,
has made no further progress, and we under-
stand it is unlikely to be given a second

reading during the present session.
R. H. S.

BZ

 

 

 




  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
   
 
  
 
   
 
   
 
   
   
 
  
 
   
  
  
 
 
    

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Of Dogs, Drugs and

Doctors

mind; but I must make it clear that by

“ drugs ” I do not mean anything out of
a bottle, although I mean something that
quietens strained nerves and revives depressed
spirits. But you cannot get it at a Chemist’s.

When I go to see my doctor, I go primarily
because I believe in the principle underlying
her treatments, and find that they do me good.
Also I. go because her gracious personality
and her unfailing kindness and patience give
me courage and faith. And lastly I go because
she has a dog.

His real name is Carnera, but as I have
discerned nothing of the pugilist in his
disposition, I prefer to use his pet name,
Carnie. He is a spaniel, with a nobly—shaped
head, beautiful eyes, and silky black coat.
His photographs adorn the consulting—room
in great number, side by side with fearsome-
looking X—Ray photographs. He sleeps in his
own arm—chair, upholstered in blue, a chair
chosen by himself when his mistress was
selecting her own furniture in a shop. Some—
times Carnie is asleep when I arrive, but he
"will generally open a friendly eye at me and

THE three should go together, to my

 

[1/1)], 1937

smile when I tell him what a beautiful dog
he is. If I go later in the day, however, he- is
usually awake, and will superintend my un—
dressing in a cubicle, put his paws on my knee
during examination and lick my hand, bustle
round to see that his mistress administers
treatment successfully, and finally barks a kind
good—bye down the corridor. Carnie, by
that time, has given me something much
better than drugs or tonics.

Yet doctors and nurses, obsessed by dread
of “germs ” will banish animals from an
invalid’s room! I often wonder how I
should get through frequent illnesses without
the companionship of my cat. Lonely hours
are beguiled by his pleasant little cry as he
jumps on the bed, curls his warm body
against mine, Clasps his soft white paws round
my hand and licks it, and sings all the while
his deep contented purr, so much more
soothing than bromides! Christopher (Kit
for short) loves nursing; and he will stay on
duty all day, regardless of the lure of the garden
and the call of his little friend from next door.
He leaves me only when he has seen that I
have other company. Without Kit’s affection—
ate concern and the sympathy that shines in
his eyes, and waves in his tail, I often feel
that life would be almost unbearable.

I question whether people realise to the full
what a store of nervous energy and almost
mesmeric soothing power, quite apart from
affection, our animal friends have to share with
us. It is not at our command, of course—
animals are individuals, and what they can
give us is given freely out of love for us.
Compare this with the so—called “ scientiﬁc
beneﬁts ” wrung from tortured bodies by
the vivisector’s knife.

They have a lovely sense of humour, too,
and their play is a tonic in itself. It makes one
incredulous that there can be human beings
perverted enough to enjoy witnessing the
sorrowful antics of circus animals. As though
there could be beauty without freedom or joy
without independence !

\X/ e can quiet a restless mood by the serenity
of the stars; we can refresh tired hearts with
the fragrance of a ﬂower; and we can enter
into a world of sympathy and exhilarating
affection peopled by Carnies and Christophers,
without whose beauty and charm of character
we should be dull indeed.

And there is no need to be too serious about
germs! LILLIE LE PLA.

(Alli/Jar of Verses from Faigy/am’, etc.)

 

 




 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

It would be difficult to cram more mis—
statement into a small paragraph and one is
amazed that a man of Mr. \Well’s genius-could
give expression to dicta so far removed from
the realm of fact.

The above is quoted from a controversy
between Mr. Wells and Mr. Bernard Shaw in
the Suﬂdqy Express on vivisection. Now in
common with many others, I have generally
regarded H. G. Wells as a cool, logical,
unimpassioned thinker, and Bernard Shaw,
however brilliant and sincere, as a somewhat
irrational and paradoxical “ frondeur.” If
anyone cares to read thiscontroversy however
he will ﬁnd Shaw the clear and logical, Wells
the biassed and illogical, thinker.

Bernard Shaw moreover shows himselfa
generous opponent. He concedes much.
“ Now I am the last man alive,” he wrote,
“to deny that vivisection has led to dis-
coveries. I Could fill columns with an account
of all the mare’s nests it has discovered during
my own lifetime.”

Let us return to Mr. Wells and examine

[111)], I93 7

the quoted passage. Animals are indeed
“pressed by forebodings ”; we have only
to witness the migration of birds and other
animals prior to an earthquake. They are
often a “ prey to anxiety ” as can be demon-
strated by two very contrary examples—in the
rat’s desertion of a sinking ship, and in the
refusal of a dog to leave his dying master.

Possibly the anti—vivisectionist does not
“ clearly separate ” the beasts from humanity
in some directions. This is no reproach.
Justice and mercy and love have no frontiers.

As to the last sentence, it is neither the
anti—vivisectionist nor any man who has
enriched animals with their dreams. I think
this enrichment can be left to God or Nature,
according to whether we use a religious or
philosophic terminology, as best reﬂects
our frame of mind.

If Man may' appear on occasion “at a
disadvantage ” in comparison with the beasts,
it is because he has greater gifts than they and
has too often sadly abused them.

 

Two Views on Vivisection.

When an anarchist told me, soon after the assassination
of President Carnot, that new ideas always had their
baptism of blood, I told them I did not object to their
shedding blood; they might shed all they had; what
I objected to was the shedding of the blood of others.
If some person, full of scientific zeal, and burning with
the enthusiasm of humanity, will oﬁer himself. to be
vivisected, I shall respect his generosity, whatever I
may think of his intelligence. But I object to his

oﬂering me. He must wait till I offer myself. And I
object to his offering any other man—or any other
animal. ——G. W. Fooz‘e.

To pursue knowledge in this way is to cover our-
selves with darkness. It is to blind ourselves to that
greatest and most health-giving of all knowledge—the
sense of our common life and unity with all creatures.
It is to sacrifice the greater to the less; it is to suffer
loss rather than to eHect a gain.

—Edwarzl Carpenter.

 

 

Photo by)

  

 

(J. L. Cather

Herdwz'aé Ram; on the Slope; of Scan/fell.
224




 

 

 

[111); 1937

Dickie Hare

THE STORY OF A FOUNDLING.

BENEATH a glorious April sky, at the
corner of a rough ﬁeld, lay three tiny
furry bodies of three baby hares, each
one no bigger than a small orange. So they
were found by M. as she wandered in the
evening air.

Two of the leverets were stiff and cold.
The third showed no Sign of life; but still
he was limp and warm. Hastily M. laid him
round her neck for warmth and carried him
home; then wrapped him in softest wool
and put him in the half—cold oven. Ten
minutes passed; then suddenly two bright
eyes were opened, two black—tipped little
ears were raised, and soon a golden ball was
sitting in the palm of M’s hand. Dickie
Hare had come !

How was he to be fed? Many experiments
were tried, but he failed to suck. At last a
piece of rubber from a bicycle valve was ﬁtted
to the point of a fountain—pen ﬁller and soon
the little pink mouth was sucking warm milk
audibly and joyfully. Every two hours for
three weeks Dickie fed in this way, endearing
himself during the time to all in the house,
including jan the terrier.) Everywhere, in
and out, up and down stairs, went that
golden ball; tearing round and round when
he wanted his food, cuddling into a lap for a
sleep, lying round M.’s neck for a warm,
or bullying Jan for a place between his paws.
When found he weighed under four ounces,
and though he did not grow fast he steadily
put on weight.

At last ‘it was decided that Dickie must
drink from a saucer, and the furry nose
was pushed into the milk. He hated it,
and with a piteous little sound he rushed
to Jan, holding up his milky face; Jan under—
stood the trouble at once and obligingly
licked it clean. But soon Dickie was used
to the saucer, and every evening throughout
his life it was placed for him. He did not lap
the milk, but sucked and guzzled with noisy
delight, and, having ﬁnished, Jan cleaned his
face for him and then polished the saucer.

As the summer days came he had the free—
dom of the garden, with a hutch in the corner
if he chose to use it. He learnt to eat dande—
lions, sowthistles, grass, twigs of willow,
hawthorn, but never once did he touch any
garden ﬂower or vegetable, not even carnations

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

or lettuce. His greatest treat was a handful
of raspberries, a pear, or pink clover ﬂowers.
If a friend passed down the path two furry
feet would reach up to his calf or a soft body
rub against him. But Dickie’s love for M.
surpassed all else. He would spring into her
arms and nuzzle against her throat, or, putting
his feet on her shoulder, would nibble and
inspect her hat, showing marked preference
for felt rather than straw.

\When winter came Dick was fully grown,
some 5%lb. in weight. His hutch was brought
under cover and ﬁlled with hay, and there he
drowsed many hours away, coming into the
house when he chose, to go up and down after
M., to play with Jan, to sit by the ﬁre and attend
to his toilet. No gentleman in the land was
ever cleaner than Dick in habit and person——
and what wonderful fur he had! Every hair
had three divisions of colour, pure white at
the root, then black, then ruddy gold, and
every day it was all brushed till spotless and
shining by Dickie himself.-

In May came disaster. A strange man was
working next door, and over the fence he saw
poor- Dick. »Out shot an arm, with fatal
aim came a. cruel stone, and Dickie, raising
his head, got it behind the ear. In less than an
hour he was dead; done to his death by man’s
everlasting and cruel desire to kill. When he
was gone, how quiet seemed the house,
how lonely the garden, how lost was Jan,
how sad was M. without the bright little
presence of conﬁding, amusing, loving, never—
to—be—forgotten Dickie Hare I

(Reprinted from 1776 Times by kind per—
mission of the Editor.)

“ Poor little Blighter! ”

A mole, taking his morning airing, darts off at our
approach, and before we realise it we are after him.
Backwards and forwards he dodges, escaping the swipes
we make at him with our sticks by a hair’s breadth.
We are oblivious to everything else in the excitement
of the chase after a poor frightened mole. A lucky
stroke and I knock him over. Picking up the kicking
animal I give him another tap on the head. The
convulsive movements gradually stop, and the little
furry body lies inert in my hand. . . . . . .

Mac comes over and looks at the body. “ Poor
little blighter, such a soft silken coat ”—and Mac
softly strokes the tiny creature from which I have
knocked out all the life. . . . . . . .

Whatever prompted me to chase and kill it. I must
be a blood-thirsty brute. If only I had thought before
I made that fatal stroke. Poor little inoffensive mole,
its life was as precious to it as mine is to me.

(From Tim Winding Road Unfold; by Thomas Suthren
Hope.)

 

 

 

225

 

”h. --_._.__—w_w_,_‘._‘

 




 

 

 

[ll/y. 1937

Twentieth

Century

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Torture Chamber

BY BASIL HARVEY—JAMES.

T/Je liennd drew bark and struggled wit/9 tlye elyain

In act to fl , ant eneiy 222a)! dragged and driven

He rear/Jed t/Je leetnrer’r feet and tliere la} do an

Panting and looking up wit/J pleading eyer ;

lee leetnrer .rrniled again and patted leini,

LIV/Jen lo I tlye rietiin lie/éed tbe bloody leand

Pleading fer kindnerr and for pity .s'till. . . .
Robert Bite/yanan.

W0 main arguments may be used

against any practice—its immorality and

its inutility. Both apply in the case of
vivisection. Painful experimentation on living
animals in order to produce serums and to
study human diseases is as futile as it is cruel
and a violation equally of the dictates of con—
science and of common—sense.

The utilitarian objection is that no useful
knowledge (at most very little) has been
obtained through vivisection and that other
methods of studying disease have proved more
efficient, and that these and a more healthy
habit of life have been the contributing factors
in bringing about the very large diminution
of disease that has taken place in the last two
centuries. The layman often imagines that
the medical profession as a whole is wedded
to vivisection ; in truth only a minority know its
practices and a far smaller minority participate.

The humanitarian objection is that vivi—
section involves cruelty to sentient creatures
and that to inﬂict avoidable suffering on
animals, irrespective of all other considerations,
under whatever pretext, is wrong. In the
fine words of Colonel Ingersoll, in a letter to
Dr. Peabody on this subject: “ above all
the discoveries of the thinkers, above all the
inventions of the ingenious, above all the
victories won on the ﬁelds of intellectual
conﬂict, rise lnnnan {yinpatlgy and a renre of
jiii‘tiee. ’ ’

I do not hesitate to associate myself with this
last attitude, holding that even if vivisection
'had increased human knowledge (even sub—
stantially), we, as humanitarians, should oppose
the practice all the same, exclusively on the
ground that the suffering of animals is thereby
involved.

Here we are immediately met by the
challenge that nature is cruel and that we men,

being part of Her, cannot counteract her
laws. I think only three fallacies are here
committed. In the first place Nature is not
cruel in the same way as men are; secondly,
Man is constantly “ modifying ” Nature’s
laws; thirdly, why should vivisectionists
add to the cruelty that already exists?

Bat l/JlJ‘ I knew, wlzate’er 0f natnral rig/9t;

Be mine, are years no leri~ lay native den/er.

If none entitled is to bind me down,
.And rend, and inar, and rare, and break, and

flea! ine,

lVene bat/9 a title so to ranageqyen,

Saying rial? tit/er as defanie alike

Hiin tnat lierten/s, and nine tlyat mer it.

(Sir lVilliain Watwn).

Comparable with this is the specious
argument that blood—sports or the slaughter—
house involve equal or greater cruelty.
On the point of replying “ Two blacks don’t
make a white,” one is faced by yet other
champions of vivisection who inform us
that no cruelty takes place, as animals cannot
feel pain and that anxsthetics are used.
These statements are mutually contradictory,
for if animals were unable to feel pain the
need of anxsthetics would scarcely arise.
These statements, therefore since they refute
each other, must be dealt with separately.

As regards anarsthetics these are not
by any means universally applied and it is
moreover often difficult to tell if the anxs—
thetisation is complete. It is, in addition,
quite possible to niaiin an aniinalfor life when
under an anxsthetic; many animals are
allowed to recover from the anaesthetic,
and then the suffering begins.

The argument concerning whether or no
animals feel pain often takes the form of
whether they anticipate it. In this connection
Mr. H. G. Wells wrote :—

He (the Anti—Vivisectionist) can imagine
dogs and cats pressed by forebodings, a
prey to anxiety, vexed and thwarted. He
does not clearly separate them from humanity
(this, from a biologist I). Often he will
compare these dream-enriched animals of
his with mankind to the disadvantage of the
latter.

223

 

 




 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

[111)», 1937

Tah-Chah, the Speedy

By HARPER CORY, F.C.G.S.
Part II.

 

O W had

I \l Tah—Chah to

ﬁght for his
existence; inches
, ’5"! of snow covered

j the ground and the
‘ snow had to be
tramped down
,'before food
.. “ could be obtained.
In another sense

the snow added
to his troubles, for humans on skis and snow—
shoes travelled quickly and almost silently
through the wood; they carried smoke—poles
and sought deer—meat for their menu. The
result was that Tah-Chah learned how to
crouch and hide beneath scanty shelters;
he carried his head low and clung to the shady
parts of the wood; timid and wary, he turned
at the slightest sound, and when unable to
interpret the sound to his satisfaction, he would
race away at break—neck speed. Sometimes he
journeyed thirty miles within one hour,
but no matter how far he travelled, he always
returned to the wood.

On a short day in January the buck lost his
crowning glory ; his spike was shed leaving but
a gristly stump in the middle of which was a
speck of clotted blood. His loss grieved him,
but within a few days Tah—Chah saw that all was
well———his new father dropped his antlers also,
and with them his dignity. With the coming
of the first warm breath of spring, the elder
buck wandered away from the band and Tah—
Chah remained with the does and year—old.
fawns.

The snows disappeared and the young buck
ﬂourished on the new vegetation. He found
a welcome dainty which gave edge to his
appetite and strength to his growing antlers;
he found a clay which was pleasant to lick
because it was strong in tonic. The tonic
may have been potash, alumina or iron—he
knew not, but it certainly was good to the
taste. As summer drew near he changed his
winter coat for his summer garb of russet
red; and in the ﬁrst week of May, the does
wandered into solitary places in the shady

 

 

 

 

woods to bear their young, and Tah- Chah was
left to fend for himself.

He loved to swim in the cool river where
mosquitos could not plague him, and where
succulent lily-pads abounded. Again was
life happy and care—free, for the humans were
too busy to visit the woods with smoke—poles.
Tah—Chah now carried his head proudly, for it
was crowned with growing antlers clothed in
velvet.

In the Moon of Harvest when the golden
wheat was cut by noisy chattering machines, a
patch of velvet was left on the bushes as Tah—
Chah nibbled at some juicy grasses. The
buck rubbed his antlers vigorously against
the leaves and branches until the tines were
free of skin. Proudly he held his head
aloft—at last he, too, was a potential stag.

In his pride Tah—Chah wandered from the
shady timber into an open glade to graze,
and as he fed he paused frequently to raise
his head and to scent the wind for danger.
Disaster almost placed its hands on the body
of the buck.

Through the woods came an Indian armed
only with a bowie-knife. He saw Tah—Chah
grazing in the open and longed to taste his
meat. He held his‘face to the wind, and with
eyes intently fixed on Tah—Chah’s ran silently
through the grass toward the buck. Tah-
Chah twitched his tail ere he raised his head—at
once the Indian dropped to his knees and
remained motionless, not even an eyelid
blinking. The deer raised his head and
scented the breeze; long he gazed about him
but saw no danger—all he saw was a vast,
flat panorama in which nothing moved.
Satisﬁed, he lowered his head and re-
commenced his meal. At once the Indian
hastened forward watching for the warning
twitch of the long pointed white tail; the
buck raised his head.

And then the fates were kind to Tah—Chah.
He scented the breeze and found it full of
man—his eyes beheld a still panorama, and
so he began to lower his head. At that
moment there was a slight wind eddy. To
the keen nostrils of the buck was wafted the
scent of man; without waiting to see how near

226

 

 

o—f’ “‘1




 

 

l

 

 

 

ﬁlly, 1937

the man might be, Tah—Chah bounded away
along a zig—zag path and soon was lost among
the trees. Ten feet from where Tah—Chah
had taken alarm, an Indian rose to his feet and
sadly reviled himself because he had hesitated a
fraction of a minute too long before throwing
his knife into the side of the deer.

\X/ariness was now the leading trait of
Tah—Chah ; he had had his lesson and he was
quick to proﬁt thereby, and so it was when a
band of coyotes came hunting Tah—Chah heard
them from afar. Immediately he glided
silently and cat-like between the trees into an
open glade, and with the hungry barking of
chasing coyotes ringing in his ears, he raced
across the grass toward a stream. The
hunters strained and panted, but Tah-Chah
showed them clean heels and plunged into
the water; they ran along the bank with
bared fangs snarling at him, but the buck
swam steadily down—stream. Under an arch of
rock he went and came at last to a haven—a
small park that fringed the shore of a lake, and
behind the park was a‘ perpendicular wall of
rock which not even a goat could descend ; and
so Tah-Chah fed in comfort. ,

Trees shed their nuts and the buck feasted
royally on beechnuts and acorns; he put on
ﬂesh and his winter coat at almost the same
time. Then Nature called to him and he left
his haven to seek a mate; and this was at the
time when humans left their homes to seek
for stags with antlers as grand as his.

Under the arch of rock and up the stream
swam Tah—Chah on his way to the old home
wood, and because he was wise he journeyed
at night and lay ahiding during the day.
On the second day he heard a pattering of
hoofs and through the trees came four does
skulking fearfully. Tah-Chah stood before
them; at once they lost their fear and grouped
themselves behind him—the deer was master
of a harem.

His new possession with its attendant
dignity made him ferociously eager to do
battle, and when, two days later, a second stag
arrived upon the scene to entice the females
to follow him, Tah-Chah lowered his antlers
and charged. Not until his rival lay twitching
in death did Tah—Chah cease to struggle for his
own.

Foolhardiness and courage seemed to be the
same to Tah—Chah after that. Hitherto he
would have ﬂed before the face of humans;
now he feared nothing and nobody. And so,
when a human crept past the bushes where the

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

stag lay resting with the does, Tah—Chah
immediately came to be a raging fury. He
bounded from his cover with loweredhorns
and charged the human. Luckily for him the
man heard his danger. He had no. room in
which to raise his gun, so dropping it he
dodged into the bushes as Tah-Chah lunged
forward, and climbed a tree quicker than he
had ever climbed before. So Tah—Chah
stamped round the base of the. tree until he was
tired, then led his harem through the wood
to safer refuge.

The human had not ﬁnished with Tah—Chah.
Aggrieved because the stag had beaten him,
he returned to the wood next day With a party
of friends determined to secure the stag’s
antlers. Craftily they stalked alongthe trail,
and frequently they paused to call llkC' a doe
seeking a mate. Tah-Chah heard their calls
but was not deceived. Onward they came
and a strange stag bounded from the bushes.
There was a crashing of smoke-poles and the
stranger fell, his body heavily weighted With
buckshot.

Laughingly the hunters stacked their guns
and built a ﬁre; soon they were cooking
steaks. While they were so engaged, Tah-
Chah led his harem from the wood and ﬂed
pell—mell across the open space toward the
ice—covered stream. The hunters sprang to
their guns, but the harem had reached the
shelter of some bushes by the stream, and
were racing along the sunken bank before the
buckshot pattered on the ice where the
hunters thought the animals hid. Later in the
morning Tah—Chah led his harem over the ice
and under the rock—arch to his especial haven;
he had forsaken his desire to ﬁght.

The winter passed peacefully in the hidden
sanctuary, and in the early days of the new
year, Tah—Chah shed his antlers; all that re-

 

227

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

mained was a stub of horn in which lay
gristle and some clotted blood. With the
antlers went his pride, and so, when spring
swept the snow away and the grasses were
green and tender, Tah—Chah left the does and
wandered into the hills ; not until his head was
crowned with polished antlers would he return.
And the does, knowing thefoolish moping
of ill—dressed males, let him go, as much for
their own sakes as for his.

Tah—Chah is known in Canada as the
Northern Virginia Deer, Northern \White—
tailed Deer, Flag-tailed Deer and Red Deer.
They are quite unlike the Red Deer of Europe,
however, but are given this name because
of their reddish summer coat. They differ
from all other deer in the sudden bending
forward of the antlers, and they have more
massive horns, greater size, and a deeper
distinction between the red summer and
bluish winter coats than have the Southern
deer. Sometimes Tah—Chah is referred to
as the Mule Deer, but that is distinctly in—
correct; the Mule Deer can be recognised
immediately by his funnel—shaped mule—like
ears, very long stiff-legged jumping, and dull
yellow summer coat. His antlers fork equally
and each prong again branches into two.

The British Robin

BY CUTHBERT D. BRIDGWATER.

AVE you noticed how delicately beauti-

ful are the robin’s eggs, when newly

laid? As a boy, like other young
vandals, I, of course, collected eggshells;
and the whitish eggs of the robin, pink—
tinged and red—speckled, always thrilled me,
in that way, quite indescribable, that conveys
a subtle idea of the very essence of romantic
bird—life. It worried me when, after being
blown, their pinkish charm vanished, and I felt
a sense of loss. This reverence for robins
and their eggs has never quite left me.

More than other birds, robins share a kind
of kinship with man. No other bird holds
so tight to imagination and the more sympa—
thetic side of our nature. There is something
peculiarly British about him; his robustious
independence, his solitary life for quite eight
months of the year, and his battles for lord—
ship of his own selected territory, characterise
him as master of his fate. As a rule he holds
his own with most other birds, though

[II/)3 193 7

discreetly giving way before the business-like
yellow beak of the blackbird.

When the robin seeks . our hospitality in
winter and hard weather, he comes to our
windows, not as a dependant or pensioner, as
do starlings, greenfinches or titmice, but as an
equal. Friendly, he is at the same time aloof,
either in our gardens, or when, on lichened
fence or frosted branch, seen but oblivious,
withdrawn, as it were, into himself he bravely
weathers the bleak harshness of winter.

What could be more original than some of
his nesting sites? The neat nest, of dry grass,
moss and leaves, hair and feather—lined, may be
found in any one of a hundred diﬂerent
places. You may, of course, discover it in
rose—bushes, ivied—walls, or holes in banks;
but you are more likely to find it in old tin
cans, outhouses, idle railway trucks or in any
disused receptacle or corner. Is there not a
suggestion of elﬁsh humour in choosing the
pocket of an old jacket, a deserted beehive,
a crevice near a forge in use, an inhabited
cottage mantelpiece or” the body of a dead cat
to build in?

His detractors have termed the robin greedy,
quarrelsome and a cannibal—hard charges,
indeed. He certainly eats hugely; but as
his food almost entirely consists of insects
in various stages, I think his gluttony is
justiﬁed. He cannot so easily, however, be
acquitted of pugnacity; for he loves fights.
Early in the year he starts with minor combats
——not to be confused with the savage en—
counters of later on, when cock—birds, locked
together in a “ free—style ” set—to, may often
be seen, rolling about in clouds of feathers
and dust.

The earlier affairs are much less deadly,
and the birds merely menace each other with
outspread wings and open beak. Another
kind of battle starts when a robin, having
secured some specially succulent tit—bit, or
having found some attractive tree—top or
other vantage-coign, ﬂauntingly shouts his
cheeky “ tsee, tsee.” This means, in King— ‘
of-the—Castle spirit, “ See what I have! ” or
“ Don’t you wish you were up here? ” Such
challenges are usually accepted with alacrity
and short, sharp contests follow, though,
to be sure, with more sound than purpose in
them; and, puffing himself up, the victor
starts all over again. But these, as I say,
are not to be compared to the later battles
when almost every lawn and thicket is an
arena.

228

 




 

 

 

ﬁlly, 193 7

As regards cannibalism, I must admit that
the robin has, on at least one occasion, been
seen feeding on the dead body of another
robin; but the murder charge, at any rate,
must be declared “ not proven.”

This attractive bird has two quite distinct
ways of carrying himself. There is the trim,
prim robin, who, with his bobbing head,
flirting tail, big, dark eyes and haughty air,
makes so ﬁne a ﬁgure. But there is another
robin who, in thaws and other raw spells,
looks for all the world like a feathery ball, a
child’s toy, with his head at one end and his
tail at the other. This ﬂufﬁng-up is evidently
done for warmth.

In courtship days the redbreast looks differ—
ent again; for then his tail is turned so far
over his back as to give him the look of a
wren. His breast is stuck out and he sways
self-consciously, as who should say: “Did
you ever see so ﬁne a bird as I? ” But, alas,
far from being glad to see him the lady ﬂies
away in disgust, having not yet abandoned her
solitary habits to which robins cling as closely
as their furtive relative, the nightingale.

When the robin becomes altogether too
attentive for her peace of mind, the female will
“ go for him ” and “ land him one ” in the ribs,
the chase continuing all over the garden.
Having made up her mind to have him, she
marries him probably for life. Taking upon
her smaller, less—brilliant self the entire business
of incubation, she often rears three families,
of from ﬁve to seven each, in a season. Some—
times, too, the cuckoo will deposit an egg
in the robin’s nest, a responsibility which she
accepts without question.

Like the so—called American robin, whose
nearest relative is the ﬁeldfare, the British
robin is of thrush stock, and young robins,

like grown—up thrushes, have their speckled
breasts from a common ancestor. Like
thrushes also, robins are apt to be misled by
mild winter weather into starting to nest before
their usual time. Otherwise the ﬁrst brood is
usually launched sometime in May. ’

The ruddock, robinet or Bob robin, as he is
variously called, is singularly free from super-
stition; even the belief that it is unlucky for a
bird to enter a house does not apply to him.
His song, heard for most of the year, is said
to foretell ﬁne weather, especially if sung from a
tree top.

Although robins are resident throughout
the year, all birds migrate more or less, and the
robin is no exception, though he may not leave

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Photo by) (Eric Hosking, F.R.P.S.
Yozmg Robin. ,

   

the country. But the bird who builds in
one’s garden is almost certainly different from
the winter robin. The spring visitor pro—
bably winters in the west country, and the
winter bird hales from somewhere further
north.

I have called this article “ The British
Robin” because continental robins do not
display the charming conﬁdence in man that
characterises our native bird. No continental
robin would risk warming himself by perching
on a log in an open ﬁre-lit grate, or, from a
lofty pillar in a church, join in lustily with the
organ, as has been known in this country.

T/Je piom bird 2277/} .rz‘ar/ef brew!—
01/7" [iii/e Eng/[Nb rob/'11.
~ Wow! r22 ‘or/f/J.

A Delightful Use for Tophatted Statues I

There was Mrs. Kruger too, whom I often saw with.
her pails in the yard, for she kept dairy cows and sold
milk to the neighbours. Once she brought us coffee
while we were looking at a picture of a statue of her
husband that was being set up on Church Square.
The President was shown dressed like an elder of the
Church in a tophat, and the old lady suggested that the
hat should be hollowed out and ﬁlled with water, to
serve as a drinking-fountain for the birds. My father
and I laughed heartily on our way home at her simplicity
but we agreed that it was decent of her to have thought
of such a thing.

(From Commando : .r/l Boer joz/ma/ of t/Je Boer War, by
Deneys Reitz.)

229

 

  

 




 

THE. ANIMALS’ FRIEND

The Yellow-Hammer’s

Song

WAS glad to ﬁnd the yellow—hammer

common along the hedgerows, for they

are favourites of mine, and I wasted a good
deal of time watching them singing their
little hymns, like a sighing gust of wind among
tall grasses, beaks continually lifted to heaven
and golden heads shining in the sun.

It is a thing to notice that the chaﬂﬂnch, green—
ﬁnch and this canary of ours are the only native
species who run up a ﬂourish at the end of their
set song. The yellow—hammer’s phrase is,
of course, a much more humdrum affair than
the chafﬁnch’s; he does not put himself out
about rivals, and song to this comfortable
body sitting on the top of the hedge is what a
pull of his pipe is to the placid countryman
perched on the top bar of a gate. I doubt
whether he prefers wild and incult lands so
much as is supposed. No, he likes to take his
ease on more cultivated uplands, upon the
lower branches of a tree or the summit of a
thick hedge intersecting wide ﬁelds, where he
can get a good view and sibilate away to
himself all the warm, long day. I imagine
he does not think much. It is an amiable
musing, and his reverie goes ambling over the
different objects that present themselves like a
humble-bee from ﬂower to ﬂower. Yellow—
hammers ﬁght, of course, in the breeding
season with as much fury and as little damage
as other birds, but I maintain that they are
the most absent-minded of all singing birds.

/ (H. J. Massingham in Some Birds 0]" flag
Cor/nirwz'de.) -

 

Photo by) (Eric Hosking, F.R.P.S.
Yellow- Hammer at lVTest.

 

My, 193 7

Country Days A

0 become a traveller in Nature lore on a

July day, is a ﬁt occupation for a con—

templative man. Along the twisted lane
wild roses blush against a garland of green,
and the blossoms of elder give their perfume
to the morning. White ﬂowers of bramble
hang near a blackbird’s home, and a blackcap
sounded his wild pipe here when the year was
younger. -

Near the edge of a cornﬁeld a yellowhammer
pleads his music in a monotonous voice, like a
tired street singer, weary with the heat of the
day. From the hedge—side elms a greenﬁnch
twitters a melodious ditty, then ends his song
on a tauting note. In the sun—drenched ﬁelds
whinchats dance about the wine-red sorrel
and tall grass. Occasionally they utter a
song-note which sounds like “ u—tick.” Family
parties of young starlings take a holiday on the
pastures, a couple of lapwings complain at
one’s intrusion near the marsh.

The oak, beech, elm, and ash give colour
and character to the narrow lane. An old
pine stands near the gate, through which the
cattle go to the farm. In the water meadow
rugged black poplars, graceful willows, and
dwarfed‘alders give reﬂections to the river. In
the shadow of the grey stone bridge nine red
cows ford dewlap deep in the watercourse.
And the traveller takes a noonday rest outside
the ancient inn, on a weather—beaten bench,
in the company of sun-burnt men who till the
land.

HUDSON READ.

Hudson’s Vision of Life.

Now the force and fascination of Mr. Hudson’s
vision of Life is that he reveals to us more than any
modern writer man’s true spiritual relation to that vast
world of created sentient things in earth and sky, that
free life of wild nature whose beauty cannot yet content
our souls, but we must harass, mutilate, and exterminate
them, or scientiﬁcally catalogue and “ collect.” Every-
body must have felt at some time or other in his heart
stir a vague, faint feeling of love or struggling pity
for some “ brute beast,” or captive bird ﬂuttering at
its cage’s bars. And it is by the force of this mysterious
love, by the intensity of the feeling with which he
enters spiritually into communion with wild nature’s
life, that in Mr. Hudson’s wrathful pleading against
man’s shortsighted brutality we hear the voices of
hundreds of thousands of people scattered throughout
the earth who, like him, also love and rejoice in the
wild creatures’ life.

—— Edward Carnett.

230

 




 

i
r
'

 

 

 

 

ﬁlly, 1937

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

From Onlooker’s Note Book

S 0 .rits entbrenea’ in negetab/e pride

I nzperia/ Ken», by Tbarnes’ glittering .ria’e.
Obedient rails front realrns nnfnrren/ea’ bring
For ber tbe annaineci progeny S pring.

Dr. Erarnzns Darn/in.

Kew Gardens.

FREDERICK, PRINCE OF WALES who at one
time occupied Kew House accepted the present
of a dog from the Pope; inscribed upon the
dog’s collar were the following lines :—

I an: bit Higbnerr’r dog at Kew,
Pray tel! 7726, sir, n/bere {log are yen?

St. James Park in 1665.

JOHN EVELYN (1620—1706), the author of the
famous diary that remained in MS. until
1818, was one of the founders, and for some
time secretary of the Royal Society. Evelyn
wrote in his diary on February 9th, 1666; :

Went to St. James’s Park, where I saw various
animals, and examined the throat of the 0110—
crotalus, or pelican, a fowl between a stork and
a swan; a melancholy waterfowl, brought from
Astracan by the Russian Ambassador. .
Here also was a small water-fowl, not bigger than a
moorhen, that went almost quite erect, like the
penguin of America. The Solan geese
here also. . Here was a curious sort
of poultry not much exceeding the size of a tame
pigeon, with legs so short as their crops seemed to
touch the earth; a milk-white raven; a stork,
which was a rarity at this season, seeing he was
loose, and could fly loftily; two Balerian cranes,
one of which, having had one of his legs broken
and cut 03 above the knee, had a wooden or
boxen leg and thigh, with a joint so accurately
made that the creature could walk and use it as well
as if it had been natural; it was made by a soldier.
The park was at this time stored with numerous
ﬂocks of several sorts of ordinary and extra-
ordinary wild fowl, breeding about the Decoy,
Which for being so near a great city, and among
such a concourse of soldiers and people, is a
singular and diverting thing. There were also
deer of several countries, white; spotted like
leopards; antelopes, an elk, red deer, roebucks,
Stags, Guinea goats, Arabian sheep, etc. There
were withypots, or nests, for the wild fowl to
lay their eggs in, a little above the surface of the
water.

A Hundred years Ago.

Excerpt from Tbe Obserner of November 20th
1836.

A society called the St. James’s Ornithological
Society, has been instituted for the purpose of
forming a collection of waterbirds in the garden
of St. James’s Park. The first object will be to

exhibit a collection of the British species of the
genus anas of Linnaeus from the swan to the
smallest of the ducks.

Set Free.

R. B. CUNNINGHAME GRAHAM, (185211956)
Scotch author and socialist, born in London
spent his early life in the Argentine. He was
a critic of modern civilisation, a picturesque
figure in politics and literature and a writer
noted for distinctive style albeit with an
illegibility which distressed printers. His
works include: A Vanisbea’ Areaa’ia, Hie Peep/e,
Tbe Hersey of tbe Conanest, and Writ in S ana’.
From Set Free a typical Cunninghame Graham
essay the following is taken :

The animal creation seemed to have been
devised by God to bring out all that was most base
in man. If they were tame and looked to him
as man, in theory, looks toward his God, he worked
them pitilessly. Their loves, their preferences,
their simple joys, attachments to the places where
they had first seen the light and frisked beside their
mothers in the ﬁelds, were all uncared for, even
were subjects for derison or for mirth, if they were
-marked at all. If, on the other hand, they were of
those, winged or four-footed, who had never
bowed the knee or drooped the wing to man’s
domination, their treatment was still worse.
They had no rights, except of being killed at
proper seasons, which were contrived so artfully
that but a bare three months of the whole year
was left unstained with blood. Woods in their
thickest depths witnessed their agony. Deep
in the corries of the hills, in ﬁelds, in rivers, on the
land, the sea, and in the bowls of the earth they
left their fellows, dumb, stricken, wretched, and
died silently wondering perhaps what crimes
they had committed in their lives so innocent
and pure. No one commiserated them, for they
were clearly sent into the world as living targets
to improve man’s power of shooting, or to be
chased and torn to pieces in order to draw out
the highest feelings of his self-esteem and give him
opportunities to say, as their eyes gazed in death,
‘ There is one flesh of man, and yet another of the
beasts, all glory to His name.’

The Little Cat.

CHARLOTTE BRONTE (1816-185 5), one of the
most gifted novelists of the 19th century,
had a life of gloomy experienCes. , She failed
to ﬁnd a publisher for her first novel Tbe
Preferyer and published with her sisters a
volume of poems which cost them J{:50 and of
which only one or two copies were sold.
Her jane Eyre published in 1847 attracted
universal notice and has been described as a
masterpiece of sensational realism. She re—

231

 




 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

veals herself as a brave woman, undaunted by
hardship and a cruel destiny, though in—
ﬂuenced by them. From Life of Char/0276
Bmm‘é' by E. C. Gaskell the following little

' testimony of her love for animals is extracted:

According to Mary Taylor (the Rose Yorke of
flair/6y) Charlotte Bronte, “ ate no animal food.”
Soon after she came back to Haworth, in a
letter to one of the household in which she
had been staying there occurs this passage :—
Our poor little cat has been ill two days, and is
just dead. It is piteous to see even an animal
lying lifeless. Emily is sorry. Charlotte was
more than commonly tender in her treatment of
all dumb creatures, and they, with that ﬁne in—
stinct so often noticed, were invariably attracted
towards her. But not merely were her
actions kind, her words and tones were ever
gentle and caressing, towards animals; and she
quickly noticed the least want of care or tender-
ness on the part of others towards any poor brute
creature.
ONLOOKER.

Animal Signatures

OHN LEECH, the early Pam/9 artist

often signed his drawings with a little

wriggly [66617 in a bottle. That was partly
because Leech had been a medical student,
and partly as a humorous illustration of the
artist’s name.

Walter Crane frequently signed his cartoons
and drawings with a tiny drawing of a bird—
4 6mm. This decorative signature fitted well
into his decorative designs.

J. Mc. N. Whistler signed many of his works
with a Mira/ﬂy. A wasp might have suited
his temperament better! The butterﬂy sig-
nature owed its existence to a suggestion
made by D. G. Rossetti. A client who
offered to buy a piece of pottery designed
by Whistler objected to the artist’s signature
on it, which he said spoiled the composition.
Rossetti, to smooth over matters, drew a sort
of Eastern catouche with Whistler’s initials
in it, and suggested he should use that instead.
Whistler developed the idea and so the
butterfly came into existence.

Carlo Pellegrini, a caricaturist of chz'zj/
Pair, in the “eighties,” always signed his
drawings Ape.

Literary men also have used animals as their
marks. Jack London used a 22/0//; \W. E.
Henley a bﬂﬂ, and Henry Williamson an owl.

E. G. B.

fllbl, I93 7

Theophile Alexandre

Steinlen

(1859—~I923)

TEINLEN was cartoonist, etcher, litho—
S grapher, book illustrator, poster designer,
\ and painter. One day he read Zola’s
L’Arrommoz'r and this terrific picture of social
misery made such an impression on him that
he wanted to see this life. He studied and
drew at Lausanne, and then to earn a living

he designed fabrics.

In 1881 he arrived in Paris and worked on
fabric designs. Two years later' he was
contributing, in the company of Forain and
others, to most of the humorous journals of the
day.

Steinlen painted still—lifes, landscapes, por-
traits. He depicted the miseries, hardships,
and revolts of the poor, showing an obvious
sympathy for the workers. He did some
wonderful drawings of working class children,
men and women.

Steinlen was a superb draughtsman. His
works are largely decorative, broad and vigor—
ous, but simple in drawing, executed in grey
and black, enlivened with rich splashes of
colour.

Balanced as he was, Steinlen also loved and
painted animals. He published in his sketch-
books cat drawings which were very popular.
Undoubtedly he was a great painter of cats,
and all his life he studied their proud attitudes
and natures. He also made some lively
models of cats. ‘

Anatole France said : “ Love lies at the root
of his talent, which is so full of emotion, so
clear seeing, and so truthful. Steinlen loves
life, humanity, animals and things; he loves
them with an ardour at once gentle, austere
and deep; he is part of Nature and Nature is__
part of him. From this arises the tender
greatness of his work.”

E. G. BARLow.

’9

“ As Animal Personalitiesﬁ—

When we. begin to see the animals we study .
as animal personalities at various levels, as creatures
with mental aspects, as agents that endeavour after
well-being and share in their own further evolution,
as threads in a quivering web of life, we begin to know
what is meant by the new Natural History.

(Proferror .S‘z‘!‘ ]. z‘lrt/Jz/r T/Jowrorz.)

232

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

   

 

[111}, 1937

The Library Table

The Animal Year Book. Vol. 4. Hon.
Editor H. E. Bargmann, Ph.D., Published
by University of London Animal Welfare
Society at 42 Torrington Square, London,
\W.C.I. Price 2s. 6d. net. ; by post 25. 9d.

One has a comfortable feeling in referring
to the Animal Year Boa/é that its information
can be relied on and that its facts will be pre—
sented in a calm and judicial setting. It has a
good reputation in this and in other respects.
Among the articles in the new volume, Dr.
Kirkman’s article on “ Africa’s Vanishing
Fauna ” is singled out as of special interest in
view of the fact that a meeting of the Conven-
tion for the Preservation of African Fauna is
due to be called within the next few months.
And it is not only Africa’s fauna that is
vanishing; David Stead’s article on “ The
Tragedy of the Possum ” in Australia reminds
us of the necessity of a vigorous campaign
for the protection of wild life throughout
the Empire.

In quite another category is Dr. Harold
Smith’s contribution on “ The Inﬂuence of
Religion on Man’s Attitude towards Animals.”
This is an admirably clear statement of the
fundamental teachings of various faiths with
regard to animal life, admirably condensed
and of great interest. M. D. Austin’s article
. on “ An Experiment in Humane Education ”
deals with the work of the Deeside Animal
Welfare Society carried on with the co—opera—
tion of the Director of Education for Flint—
shire—it is an experiment we should like to see
officially extended to many other counties.

The section devoted to “ Animals Abroad ”
has always been of special interest. This year
there is information about the work carried on
for the benefit of animals in Africa, Albania,
China, Cyprus, Germany, Greece, India,
Italy, Japan, Palestine and Portugal. In—
formation is supplied with regard to the laws
- for the protection of animals in a number of
these countries and of practical animal welfare
work that is being carried on. This section is
edited by Dr. Jean Vintner. >

Book Reviews are again in the capable
hands of Dr. Knight. The list of books
noticed is necessarily incomplete but it
contains notices of many of themost important
books on animal. subjects published during
the last two years. These are written by

233

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND '

competent critics ; they give a good idea
of the nature and extent of the ground covered
by the author and are discriminating.

Section VI is devoted to the consideration
of “ Some Current Topics.” Captain C. W.
Hume writes on “ The Campaign against the
Gin Trap ”; “ Cock—Fighting in the Pas de
Calais ” and “ The Electrocution of Dogs and
Cats ”; there is a useful memorandum on
Calcium Cyanide; an article on the possible
use of X rays in surgical operations on animals
carried on without anaesthetics, and a note
which records the adoption of the practice
of the slaughter of the calf in the government
lymph establishment immediately before the
extraction of the lymph used in vaccination.
This humane reform was adopted largely as
the result of representations made by ULAWS.

An Appendix dealing with ULAWS and
its work is the last feature of the Year Book,
which is illustrated throughout by a number
of full page photos. The Animal \Welfare
movement as a whole owes more than a vote
of thanks for the volume to ULAWS, and to
all those concerned in its production, and we
hope that many readers of THE ANIMALS’
FRIEND will show their appreciation by purchas-
ing a copy of the Year Book and by recom—
mending it to their friends.

(Bird Behaviour. By E. B. Kirkman, B.A.,

Oxon. Illustrated from the Author’s
photographs. T. Nelson and Sons, Ltd.
75. 6d. net.

This contribution to the study of bird
behaviour is based on a detailed account of
the breeding life of one species, the Black—
headed Gull, the commonest of our gulls.
This bird, as Mr. Kirkman points out, is as
much a country bird as a sea bird, if not
more so; it is a familiar visitor in many
inland towns, being the “popular gull” of
the London parks and river side, and in the
breeding season it forms colonies far inland
as well as on the coast.

The author is a naturalist and observer of
bird life of no mean repute ; his observations
and experiments with the Black—headed gull
extend over a period of more than thirty years.
The facts of bird behaviour which he has
observed and recorded during this period,
and his analysis of gull mentality, are pre-
sented in this volume, and they will be found

 

 

 

 




 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

to be of great value and signiﬁcance to the
naturalist and psychologist and of much
interest to the ordinary reader who concerns
himself with the study of bird life.

Take as an illustration, for instance, Mr.
Kirkman’s reply to the question: What
determines the size of the black—headed gull’s
nest? Overbuilt nests in a gullery, he points
out, from which the owners look down “ as
from a pulpit over the congregation of their
fellows,’.’ are not rare. Mr. Kirkman’s answer.
is that the size may be said with some truth
to be “largely determined by the number of
times the bird is prevented from sitting on
its eggs.” He describes the return of a bird
to the nest—in this case a hen bird. She is
feeling broody and is eager to sit on her eggs.
Her mate is in occupation and refuses to
budge. All her efforts to dislodge the sitter
by wedging herself under his breast, by
pushing her foot against his immovable ﬂank,
by repeated call notes to food, by sitting on
the back of the sitter, have failed. What did
the baffled bird do? '

She went gathering nest material, returned,
dropped some on the nest and he fitted it in.

She went on actively collecting; she brought ‘

quite a large truss, then tried the call note again
without success. More collecting. Another call
note and the bird got up. She slipped eagerly
and quickly on to the nest. After standing awhile
the male himself went off collecting, robbed two
nests and brought back the spoils.

Mr. Kirkman points out that it is clear
from the cases he has recorded that though
part of the additions to the nest may serve
to make good wear and tear, “ another and

probably greater part serves no useful purpose.

except in so far as the act of collecting provides
an outlet for frustrated broodiness.”

Another of the facts which emerge from
the author’s study of gull behaviour is that
while some of the birds in a gullery begin
their nest-building operations by making a
scrape—a saucer—shaped hollow in the soil
scraped bare with the feet—others may dis—
pense \with the scrape altogether. This fact
is interesting, as he points out, “ for it provides
an instance of an instinctive act being per—
formed by some-and not by other individuals
of the same group within the species.”

Gulls, it appears, are merciless in their
persecution of the chicks of other gull inhab—
itant of the gullery who stray to neighbouring
nests or are found outside the protection of
their own nests. A different reaction recorded

[11]}, I 93 7

is the case in which Mr. Kirkman presented
each of two pairs of gulls who had neither eggs
nor chicks, with two hatching eggs. Next
morning each nest had two chicks. Some hours
later he transferred the chicks of the nest
labelled SK to Nest No. 5, and those of
the latter to SK. The upshot of the ex-
periment _was that the chicks passed from
one nest to the other whenever and as often
as they liked without harm, although the

adult birds had shown hostility to each other,

and more than once all four birds were found
in the same nest. One chick on the third day
‘changed nests not less than eight times.

Mr. Kirkman’s book covers a wide range
of bird behaviour, and in Chapters I—VIII
will be found “ a ‘ plain tale ’ of behaviour,
of what the bird does, of its reactions as an

individual. to the changing conditions of its _

daily life in its natural environment.” In
Chapter IX “ an attempt is made to formulate

a general comparison between a gull’s mind '

and the only mind we~ know, our own.”
Chapters X, XI, and XII describe field
experiments that throw ”light on'the bird’s

mentality, and in the four concluding chapters-

the gull’s ma]or emotional reactions are
described and classified. In addition there are
Appendices, a Bibliography and an Index.
The author’s delightful full-page and smaller
photographs add interest and entertainment
to a bird book of distinction. '

The Winding Road Unfolds. By Thomas
Suthren Hope. Putnam, London, 75. 6d.
net.

To readers of these columns the special

[interest of this book will be found in the

passages that deal with the sufferings of animals
in war, and to these- we shall refer directly.
But the book as a whole is profoundly moving
and the description of it by one of our most
widely read London dailies as “ one of the
most balanced and convincing of war books ”
told in “ simple, unaffected and finally over-
whelming ” words, is not exaggerated; it is
a book that rivets our attention from the
first paragraph to the last. i

The author enlisted in Kitchener’s army
late in 1915 when only fifteen years of age—
a wound received during the Cambrai retreat
in December, 1917, led to the discovery of his
real age and he was sent back to England where
he served out the rest of the war. The book
has been expanded from the actual diary that

234

 

 




 

 

 

[111)], 1937

he kept as a young Scots private in the Ypres
Salient in 1.917. ‘

As one reads this simple, strong, impressive
story of daily life at the frOnt the question
arises and persists with increasing urgency.
Can any act of unprovoked aggression, can any
oppression however intolerable, can any evil
be so vile as to justify a resort to the horrors
' and ferocities of modern civilised war and the
Obscenities associated inevitably with it;
in which, in the author’s experience, the
comradeship of the war is “ the only clean
thing born of this life of cruelty and ﬁlth ”P

7

“For all times,’ he writes, “war has been
stripped of its false glory and revealed as some—
thing foul and obscene, bestial and uncivilised.
Surely there must be some other means of settling
disputesin future.”

But however horrible and indecent it may be
.to the human combatants, its evils'are en—
hanced when animals are involved in its
nightmare of horrors, from which it seems
at times that no human can emerge and retain
his sanity. Here are some broken sentences
from his description of the horses’ hell :

Rearing and plunging the terror-stricken
beasts come out of the hell of shells and smoke.
With necks outstretched they gallop on, making
straight for the trench and barbed wire in front
of it . . . there is a tanging of wire
as the half—crazed animals gallop into the tangle
of cruel barbs. They rear and kick and plunge
deeper into its depths, making every movement
a torture to them, and very soon they are a mass
of lacerations right up past the ﬂanks.

Hopelessly we try to get at them . . . at
each movement the wire tears our flesh, yet the
piteous cries urge us forward, until we get within
four yards of them, but can get no further. Both
horses are bleeding freely from dozens of ragged
tears, while one has a huge slice out of its hind—
quarters.

The vibrant sound of thudding hoofs is some-
thing new to a battlefield ; it has a nervous tension
about itself which conveys itself to us, and we
become fidgety and ,windy. We jump out of our
shell—hole and vainly try to stop them, a rushing
mass of uncontrollable horse-ﬂesh. We begin to
fear their mad rushes more than we do the stray
shells which are falling around us.

And so on throughout the night—endless

breaks in our wire, ﬂying ﬁgures, thudding hoofs
and a moaning almost human in its intensity.

In closing the chapter from which these
extracts are made the author writes in words
which sear the heart :—

I have long since become accustomed to
wounded humanity. Their plight evokes pity
and the desire to help, but a wounded animal

leaves me with a feeling of loathing, loathing
towards myself and the civilised humanity which

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

I represent. Too often have I seen ‘reproach
in the eyes of a dying horse, and outraged frailty
in the ﬂutterings of a carrier-pigeon.

We may understand ; they never can.

You must read this book if you are really
concerned with the issues of animal welfare—
and peace. _Itis dedicated to the Volunteers
under military age of all the belligerent
countries who served 1914—1918.

R. H. S.

 

Photo by)

(Mrs. Nesbi'tt- Wood

Baboom— Victoria Pal/r. Nola the me made of the
[Wot/Jerk Tail.

News from South Africa

N the eighth annual report of the Animal

Welfare Society of South Africa further

good work in the direction of securing
theprotection of the “ few remaining Moun~
tain Zebra in the Oudtshoorn and Cradock
districts ” is chronicled and the Society is able
to make the encouraging statement that
“ from information recently received it appears
certain that a reserve will be secured in the
very near future.” '

The Society is continuing and extending
its work of providing free treatment for
animals of the poor. For some time past it
has been anxious to extend this service to
reach the many hundreds of animals scattered
over the wide area of the Cape Flats and the
Peninsula, but has been hindered by lack of
funds. Owing to the success of the Society in
enlisting the interest of the People’s Dispensary
for Sick Animals of the Poor in England
in the work, andpthe generosity of two members
of the South African society, the Chief Superin-
tendent of the P.D.S.A. has been sent out to
Cape Town to make a preliminary investiga-
tion which heralds the expansion of the work
and without which no expansion in the
direction indicated would have been possible.

235

 

 

 

 

 




THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Airs. Nesbitt-W‘ood wit/9 W’ild A/Ton/éey at Durban.

Much educational and propaganda work
has been done, including the publication
in the Cape Education Gazette (by courtesy
of the Education Department) of the first
of a series of articles whichit is hoped to
issue in book form as “A Guide to Teachers.”
The Society is concerning itself with the prob-
'lem of ﬁlm cruelties and, in co—operation with
the National Council of Women, has pro-
tested against the type of animal pictures so
frequently shown in South African cinemas.
In the report many other aspects of the work
of animal protection and animal welfare
carried on by this Society are dealt with.

\Y/e hope that an ever increasing measure
of support and success will attend the labours
of the Animal Welfare Society of South Africa.

Bias !
EOPLE are very fond of drawing a
line between themselves and animals.
(They assume that animals are altogether
different and have no feelings. Rather is it
the other way round!) This is clearly shown
in the Concise Oxford Dictionary. Take the
word butcber used in connection with animals,
.and with humans :
Animals.
BUTCHER—Slaugbterer of animals for food;
.dealer in rneat. ‘
BUTCHERY—Butcber’s Trade.

Humans.

BUTCHER—fudge, <general, etc., wbo bas rnen
killed needlessb/ and brutall ; slaugbter people
wantonb/ or cruelly.

BUTCHER’S BILL—List of killed in war.

BUTCHERLY—Fit for, like a butcber, coarse,
- brutal, bloody.

BUTCHERY—Sbarnbles, in barracks, carnp, sbzp,
.etc., needless and cruel slaugbter of people.

by?
B.

    

filly, 1937

National Society for Abolition of Cruel
Sports.

This report is admirably planned and
presented and its cleverly condensed record
of the year’s work makes good and encourag—
ing reading. The Society’s membership has
increased by 150 and nearly one third of its
new members are heads of schools. The
Society is to be congratulated in gaining the
support of naturalists, one well—known
county Natural History Society having no
less than 25 of its members enrolled as mem—
bers of the N.S.A.C.S. Mr. Bertram Lloyd, the
Hon. Secretary of the Society, is himself a
well—known naturalist, though this is not
mentioned in the report.

The Society has been active in continuing
its propaganda among schools—perhaps the
most fruitful of all methods of propaganda—
and the circulation ’of the six excellent leaﬂets
by Miss Jessey Wade, in the'Junior Series,
has now exceeded a quarter of a million.

Among other features of the year’s work
considered are: Public Meetings and
Debates : Anti—Hare Coursing Petition; Local
Councils and Blood Sports, and the BBC
W’ith regard to the National Trust the report
records the lamentable fact that no steps
have yet been taken by the executive com-
mittee of the Trust to prohibit blood sports
on its estates. Further, the permission ac—
corded by the Trust headquarters to shoot
and hunt on Trust lands, the report points
out, appears to contravene bot/7 tbe intention
of tbe Trust and its own cbarter. No feply
from the Trust was evoked by the letter,
signed by a strong group of members of the
Trust, published in Tbe [Wancbester Guardian
and Tbe New Statesman in July last. This
letter contained a protest against the unhappy
state of affairs indicated and urged “ that the
time has come for the National Trust to pro-
hibit all killing for sport on lands under its
entire control.” ~

Under the direction of Mr. Bertram Lloyd,
with Mr. H. G. Chancellor as Chairman,
this Society is doing a particularly well
directed and effective work and its publica—
tions are invaluable. The fact that the Council
is able to record its belief that “ our cause is
gaining ground, and that the consolidation of
public opinion opposed to cruel sports is
steadily proceeding,” is in itself a testimony
to the effectiveness of the Society’s work.

236

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

ﬁlly, 1937

Centenary Commemoration Report.

Readers of these columns will remember
that the Ulster S.P.C.A. commemorated its
Centenary in October, 1956, with a Conference
on “ The Increase of Cruelty during One
Hundred Years ” in which the delegations
of many British Humane Societies took part
on the kind invitation and as guests of the
Ulster Society. During the Conference a
number of papers were read dealing with
various aspects of the Increase of Cruelty
during the period under review and on
How to Combat it. These papers contain
useful information and propaganda material
and they have now been collected and pub-
lished in booklet form by the Ulster Society
under the title “ Report of Centenary Com—
memoration Conference.” You should send
to the Secretary of the Ulster Society, if you
wish, to be well informed on the subject
of the Conference, for a copy of the pamphlet.
Unfortunately no price is indicated on the
copy we have received which runs into some
90 odd pages.

We are glad to read that the promoters of
this wonderful week of activity on behalf
of justice to animals feel that through it the
object of the Centenary Commemoration. was
fully achieved.

World League Against'Vivisection.

This annual report very brieﬂy indicates
the activities of the League .during the year
1936 under the headings of Electoral and
Parliamentary — International —-— Literature —
Correspondence—Poster Parades and Meetings.
Good work has been done by the League
whose full title is “World League against
Vivisection and for‘ the Protection of Animals.”
In all, fourteen poster parades dealing with
Anti-Vivisection, Vegetarianism, Furs and
Hunting, were held during the year, Mrs.
Dudley \‘Vard being in charge of this activity,
and many indoor and outdoor meetings were
held. In addition to the leaflets and posters,
the excellent quarterly, Tbe Anz'znalr’ Cleane—
plen, has been published regularly and has met
with- much appreciation. The reports of
branches of the League are incorporated with
the general report and indicate considerable
activity on their part.

Miss Margaret E. Ford, the well-known
Hon. Secretary—Treasurer of the League, well
deserves the encouragement and support
of our readers in carrying on the arduous

work of the World. League.

237

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND,

International Journal of Animal Protection.

Mr. Lyndesay Langwill, the Editor,
is to be heartily congratulated on the fourth
issue of the International jonrnal. It' contains
all the features of interest to be found in
preceding issues and includes the following
among its articles : “ The Royal Family and the
R.S.P.C.A.” by Captain Fergus IVIacCunn;
“Les Courses de Taureaux,” by Mons A.
Vittecoq, the Secretary French Federation of
Animal Protection Societies; “ The Steel
Trap in Canada,” by Miss C. van Steenwyk of
the Vancouver S.P.C.A.; “ Canada Speaks ”
by C. D. Niven, Hon. Secretary of the Canadian
Association for the Protection of Fur Bearers ;
“ Sanctuaries for the North’s Birds,” by Eric
Hardy. Among other contributors are Dr.
Eduard Melkus, Capt. C. \W. Hume, Miss
Nina Hosali and Dr. Hautekeek of Brussels.

The article by Dr. Melkus is in German and
those of Mons. Vittecoq and Dr. Hautekeek in
French. The section dealing with the “ \Y/orld’s
News ” is one of the most valuable features of .
the Journal and is ably edited by Miss J. M.
Pattison.

We hope that this issue of the Journal
will win many new subscribers at home and
abroad. It is profusely illustrated and is
published at the modest price of IS. 6d. per
annum. Two issues are published—one in
May and one in September—during the year.

Greece.

Mr. \W. Miller writes from Athens : “ After
eleven months’ delay due to legal and technical
difficulties, Mr. Hurle of the People’s Dis-
pensaries for the Sick Animals of- the Poor
opened on June Ist, his clinic at the Dogs’
Refuge of the Athenian S.P.C.A. Already
numerous animals have been brought there for
cure. The Dogs’ Refuge is being re—organ—
ised and in that work Mr. Hurle has given
useful advice. Arrangements have been made
for the celebration of \World’s Day for Animals,
but in November after the return of the
President, Princess Catherine, from abroad.
This year prizes for the best horses, donkeys
and mules will be awarded.

Tlnzon will 2‘0 z‘lJe woods, where be Mal/find

T/Je nn/éz'nzlerz‘ bearz‘ nzere kinder Man nzezn/éz'nel.

——Tz'7non 0f Albenr.

 

 




 

 

 

 

‘ “ Very well, Miss, we’ll do our best, but

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Lost Dog

By HELEN TREVELYAN.

Y dog is lost, my little short—legged,
! \/ I not—too-good-in—traffic dog—is lost.

How heartily I loathe all the happy,
proud, and even exasperated possessors of
dogs, as blindly and helplessly I search the
streets and shops . . . Dogs in cars, dogs on
leads, dogs at heel, all snugly and securely
owned, so very much not lost. . . Where is
“Micky”? Where can he be? With an
almost physical sense of sickening despair I
realise how vast is even one small section of
this oh! so vast London. Every store’s a
wilderness, every thoroughfare a desert in
which to lose a small dog irrevocably. What
can I do? Where can I look? How hopeless
it all is. He may be only a few feet away,
behind that counter or the other side of that
door, and yet I cannot find him—cannot
hope to find him. . .

And he? He so brave and gay and indom—
itable must now be scared, bewildered and
horribly humbled. Oh, Lord, what can I
do? . . . The Police? Yes, of course, why
didn’t I think of it before, those stout com—
forting blue—coated beings; they, if anyone,
will help me; I must ring them up. . . They
are at once reassuring without being over—
sympathetic, thus threatening my dangerously
waning control. “ Yes, Miss, at what time? ”
“ Eleven thirty, yes, Miss, and the name of the
dog?” “ Micky; yes, Miss, and the breed?”
“ Sealyham; and the markings, if any?”
“ White, with one brown ear ” “ Yes, Miss,
and which ear would that be?” Which
ear? Oh, these tortuous, not—to—be-thought—of
details ! “ The left.” “ The left? Yes, Miss ;
any other markings?” “ One black patch on
the back.” Black ! How wicked thus to betray
Micky’s pure Sealyham strain by calling it black ;
yet if I say “ badger ” (the correct term) they
may question and enquire and somehow I
find it diﬂicult even to think about, far less
talk about, him at all. So I say black. “ One
black patch.” “ Yes, Miss, measuring about
what size?” Lord! (Shall I ever be able
to measure it exactly?) “ About three inches
by three, I think,” I manage to get out.
“ About three by three, yes, Miss, and valued
at ?” “ Oh, valued rather hightly,-at ”

3)

 

 

“ Thank you, thank you very much.” I ring
off; I can’t bear any more.

[111); I93 7

. How empty, how desolate the ﬂat is. I
can’t write, I can’t read, I can’t even tidy a
drawer or dust a book. . . where, -oh where,
can he be? Micky, who gets so terribly in
the way. Whose demands on time and
attention are exorbitant; whose capacity for
affection is a thing to marvel at; who simply
cannot resist a hearth brush, a toy animal or
a cushion (preferably a new one), who has dis-
located more telephone and wireless connec-
tions than one would have thought possible.
Whose gay, lovable person is (was, oh Lord!)
irrevocably entwined about my very existence;
whose eagerness, zest and enthusiasm for life
puts most blasé, cynical, world-weary humans
to shame. Whose small being overﬂows
with such a:wealth of love, gratitude and
wistful questioning as to capture the hardest
of hearts.

His basket stands empty, a silent accusation
of my carelessness in leaving the front door
open before he was old enough to curb that
adventurous spirit which must have irresistibly
overwhelmed him. How clear it all is to me
now! A chance to wander, to explore, to
investigate new smells, fresh ground! How
exciting, how wicked, how thrilling! And
so he set forth, ﬁlled with the heady exhilaration
of his own daring and importance, until
suddenly, feeling hungry perhaps, or a little
lonely or in need of a familiar foot or scent
instead of the once seemingly exciting un—
familiar ones, he turned—and was lost.
Which way home? Which street out of so
many, all so exactly alike? A mad dash
down one. A frantic tearing up another. A
dead halt. An agonising searching up and
down, this way and that. Not a recognisable
object in sight. Oh, oh, oh! the awful
desolate empty feeling of being lost. Poor
Micky. Kind people stop and speak to him.
He' sniffs them absently. No, no, not the one
he’s looking for. Someone stoops and tries
to pick him up, but politely, instinctively, he
resists (Micky has perfect manners). No, no
not those arms, nor those, nor those. In and
out, in and out, back and forth, back and
forth amongst strange feet he ﬂies, a steadily
growing haunted look in his eye, a tense,
frenzied line about his small anxious body.
Oh, this is terrible. This is punishment too
cruel for what was only meant as a mild lark,
a youthful escapade. Oh, oh, oh, wheels,
feet, noise, noise, wheels, feet. . . Which
way? Which way? Who/.2 way?

For three hours I wait, aching, longing for

238

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

ﬁlly, 1937

that determined scratching on the mat, that
mad scamper across the polished ﬂoor, that

heavy breathing beneath the door, that joyous ‘

gnawing of the best chair. Ridiculous and
alarming how a small dog’s personality can
so grow upon you even in a short space of
time (and I’ve only had him two weeks).

Micky, Micky, Micky . . . Surely I can
telephone someone? Sew something? Do
something which does not require overmuch
concentration? But even as I dial the exchange
I replace the receiver. Absurdly I cannot
trust myself to speak. I take up a needle and
thread but somehow cannot ﬁnd the eye.
I throw it aside.

Suddenly the front door bell peals through
the ﬂat. Mother? Brother? Betrothed?
I can’t face any of them now. I wait, hoping
desperately they’ll go away. They don’t;
the bell peals louder than ever. \Without a
glance at what I know must be a violently
shining nose and dishevelled hair, I go down
and open the door. There on the step stands
a boy with something in his arms. Something
white with one brown ear and a dark patch
on its back.

6‘ M—7,

It doesn’t move.

“I found ’im in King’s Road,” the boy
says ; CC 9e——,)

All at once the motionless object begins to
stir. One brown eye is rolled in my direction,
the white very evident, an apology for a tail
begins to thump against the boy’s ragged sleeve.

He’s not hurt. He’s all right. He’s back!
I swallowed an extraordinarily uncomfortable
lump which had gathered in my throat to say,
"‘ Thank you, thank you very much indeed.
Wait a minute while I fetch my bag.” I do
:so and return to exchange a handful of silver
for an extremely grubby, much chastened dog.
. . . What can- I do? I feel a small heart
beating faster surely than it ever has before
underneath my hand. A damp nose is pressed
against my arm. The whole mute body of
dog expresses apology, thankfulness and an
urgent plea for forgiveness more eloquently
than any words I have yet heard uttered. I
stumble up the stairs and replace the culprit
in his basket, saying nothing, doing nothing,
quite frankly incapable of either. I turn away.
Suddenly there is a wild leaping at my side. A
beseeching gaze is ﬁxed steadily and squarely
upon me, a paw is thrust to my knee. I’m
ﬁnished. I give way at last to those all too
long checked tears.

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

 

Photo by)

(J. H. Stone, London, S.E.

Cheltenham Animals’ Welfare Association.

E have received from Mrs. Gordon,
‘2; of Roden House, Pittville, Chelten—
ham, the Chairman of this association,
the 19 36 report. All went well at the Shelter
during the year; 80 stray or unwanted dogs
and 157 cats were received, and, it should be
noted, 19077265 were found for #36 greaz‘er ﬂat/”Z767" 0f
27.26777. In addition, 138 boarder dogs and 141
boarder cats were received. Commenting
on the report at the annual meeting of the
association, Mrs. Gordon emphasized the
fact that the primary aim of the Committee
was to receive lost and unwanted animals and
to ﬁnd good homes for them. This is a
truly humane work and much more satis—
factory than lethalling. The chaplain to
Cheltenham College, the Rev. J. H. Kimmins,
who spoke at the annual meeting, said that
we were strangely patchy in our compassion
towards the creatures; there are some who
would protect certain of them and who would
let the rest take their chance. Society as a
whole was likely to be unmindful of the wel—
fare of animals in the broadest sense. Animals
had rights to life and liberty and love. He
commended the work of the association as
most worthy of being promoted.

239

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Opening of Flying School
for Birds

ISS PAULINE GOWER, the well—
] \/ I known airwoman, daughter of Sir
Robert Gower M.P., Chairman of the
R.S.P.C.A., was a picturesque figure in her
white ﬂying suit when she opened the Flying
School at Ember Farm, East Molesey, on
Tuesday, June 15th, after ﬁrst circling above
the grounds in order, .it was suggested, to
“ show the birds how to do it,” and then in a
charming little speech, declaring the School
open. In the absence through illness of the
Mayor of Kingston, Captain MacCunn, Chief
Secretary to the R.S.P.C.A., presided, and
most ably describing the objects of the Flying
School said that he hoped it would prove just
the first one of a long chain of such places all
over the country. .He was supported by the
Mayoress of Kingston, Colonel Powell,
D.S.O., member of R.S.P.C.A. ~ Council,
Mrs. West hon. sec. Kingston Branch of the
R.S.P.C.A., Councillor Taylor, Mr. A. G.
Diggon and Miss M. Bradish. Sir Robert
Gower who was to have spoken, was detained
at the House of Commons by urgent parliamen—
tary work in connection with a Bill for
Animal protection. Letters of congratulation
were received from Frances, Countess of
\X’arwick, Mr. George Arliss, Miss Rose
Macaulay, Mlle. Yvonne .Arnaud, Commen—
datore Leonard Hawksley, Lady Conan Doyle,
Miss Louise Hampton, Mr. Malcolm Mac—
donald, Dominions’ Secretary, Mr. Hamilton
Fyfe, Capt. E. G. Fairholme, O.B.,E., and
many others.

Miss Gower in a witty speech suggested
that in view of the number of “ pensioners ”
to be received into the aviary, the title “ and
Home of Rest for Aged and Disabled Pilots,”
should be added to that of “ Flying School.”

A pleasant incident was the presentation
by Miss Gower of the Society’s bronze medal
to Inspector Richards for most gallantly
risking his life to rescue a blackbird which had
become entangled with thread at the top
of a very high ﬁr tree, and was hanging by its
leg, the bird being afterwards brought to the
aviary for attention.

The large number of people who had come
from all parts of London and the Home
Counties greatly enjoyed the pleasant afternoon
in the open air, and tea in the spreading
meadows of Ember Farm ; they were deeply in—

My, 193 7

terested not only in the birds but the horses,
dogs, cats, etc., who enjoy the hospitality
offered them here by the Kingston Branch of
the R.S.P.C.A., the weather fortunately prov—
ing favourable until the very end of the pro-
ceedings.

Television and the Flying School.

On Wednesday, June 16th, by invitation
of the BBC. a television talk on the Flying
School was given by Miss Bradish, accom—
panied by Assistant Superintendent Finn of the
R.S.P.C.A., who released three pairs of birds,
goldﬁnches, linnets and redpolls, which under
his supervision had been recovering ﬂight
at the Flying School, having been confiscated
in the course of recent prosecutions. The
greatest interest and sympathy was shown by
the ofﬁcials at Alexandra Palace, and the birds
ﬂew off in grand form to the beautiful trees
that surround it.

I bnrn m 562‘ 2‘le imprisoned wrangler; free,
And give r/Jen/ mice and nz‘feranre once again.

Caliper.

1716 time of [be ringing 0/ MM; z'r con/c.
Song of Solon/0n.

“ The Town Crier.” (Birmingham).

In addition to the successful series of articles
on animal life and animal welfare which Miss
L. S. Houghton arranged to supply to this
weekly newspaper, and to which many writers
and speakers of the movement have contri—
buted, two articles by Basil Harvey—James,
reprinted from THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND, have
recently appeared in its columns. Another
writer, well-known to our readers, viz. Mr.
E. G. Barlow, contributed to the series
arranged by Miss Houghton, Mr. Barlow’s
scathing cartoons are to be met with in a
number of publications; there is no mistaking
a Barlow cartoon.

Both the “ Town Crier ” and Miss Hough—
ton are to be heartily congratulated on their
enterprise in arranging for the above men—
tioned series.

Animal Flag Day.

This was held on June Ist in glorious
weather. The results have not yet come to
hand but we hope to be able to give them in
our next issue.

240

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

ﬁlly, I 93 7

The National ' Council

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

for Animals’ Welfare

Hen. Organising Seerez‘my: J. L. CATHER.

Animals’ Welfare Week.

Owing to the proximity of the Coronation
to the ﬁrst week in May, the official date of the
Week, it was found advisable to postpone
the 1957 Week, for
“Q; J) this year only to
‘ June the dates
chosen, after con—
sultation with a
number of those
most likely to be
I): aﬁected b by the

mm“... 3 mm“. c an e, eing June
BMW zoth—g27th. Within
the next few weeks we shall be receiving
reports from the various towns and districts
in which the \Week has been observed and
these we shall hope to publish in a summarised
form in the August and September issues of
THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND. One or two repOrts
have been received already, but these are being
held over in order that they may appear in
the general summary of the Week’s events.

 

New Publications.

Ale— Gee/é fee Olfer.

This is a 4 pp. Harper Cory leaﬂet (with
four original sketches by Neave Parker)
reprinted from THE ANIMALS” FRIEND.
It is a fascinating story of wild life
which first appeared in the original
edition of Lovable Bearer. Price 4d. doz.
25. 5d. per 100; 215. per 1,000.

T/Je Fox’y Sporting C/eaﬁee.

This is Neave Parker’s ANIMAL FRIEND
Cartoon reproduced as a postcard. Id.
each; rod. per doz; 55. per 100.

This has also been reproduced as a
Poster in black and white and is very
striking. 4d. each.

Beware/7e; 0f Ciei/z'mz‘z'en.

Reprints of Six of Neave Parker’s
ANIMAL FRIEND Cartoons, put up in an
envelope illustrated by one of the artist’s
sketches. The Cartoons selected are:
Rendezvous with Death; The Fur
Fashion; Good Lord(s) Deliver Us (The
Gin Trap); The Fox’s Sporting Chance;

241

One Touch of Nature and Man versus
Otter.

These are published at the low price-
of 6d. the set of Six in order that they
may be widely sold.

The Inereare 2'71 Cme/Zy——A C/ya/leﬂge.

Many of our readers will be glad to be
able to obtain copies of this thought—
provoking address, delivered by Mr.
J. L. Cather during the Centenary
Commemoration of the Ulster Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
Price: 4d. dozen; IS. 9d. per Ioo; 18s.
per 1,000.

Will our readers and friends please send for
copies of these publications and make them
as widely known as possible? They are all
worth while.

Report and Stale/”em e f Aeeeezm‘s.

If you wish to know more about the
N.C.A.W., of the purpose for which it
was founded, of its aims and work,
please send a stamp—or several—for a
copy of the Report for the year ending
June goth, 19 36. It contains, in addition,
reports from 3 3 Centres of the observance

of Animals” Welfare \Week in 1956.

Animals’ Friend Calendar, 1938.

Quotations for this Calendar by intending
contributors should be sent in without delay
to Miss Dorothy Barrs, if they are to appear
in the 1938 edition. Each separate quotation
should be accompanied by a Postal Order
for 15., which is the cost of insertion and does
not, of course, include a copy of the Calendar
on issue.

Miss Barrs will ﬁnd a suitable quotation for
any reader of THE ANIMALs’ FRIEND who
wishes to appear in the Calendar if asked to
do so, and if P.O. accompanies the requests—-
IS. for each quotation published.

The Calendar is now well in hand and has
a frontispiece nature illustration of great
charm specially designed and drawn by
W. Neave Parker.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

TI—IE ANIMALS’ FRIEND.

ﬁlly, I93 7

Pit Ponies’ Protection Society

H071. Secretary: D. JEFFREY WILLIAMS, 82, Boundary Road, London, N.W.8.

“ Misguided People.”

CORRESPONDENT, who withholds
A his name, refers to us in a recent issue

of the Soufb Wale; Ec/Jo as “ a society,
composed mainly of ladies . and
people living remote from colliery districts,
who have somewhat exaggerated ideas of the
sufferings of pit horses.” He goes on to say
that “ with these misguided people the
interests of colliery horses come ﬁrst, and
the interests of the workers and their families
second, if at all.” ~

If our critic had published his own name
instead of using a pseudonym, we would be
inclined to treat his remarks with more respect
than we are inclined to do. Knowing
South Wales rather well, we do not think
there was any possible danger in the expression
of views that must be agreeable to the colliery
owners in that part of the country. We
venture to think that it was inconvenience
that induced our critic to .use an assumed
name. We should have known immediately
how much the real interests of the workers
and their families had been the concern of our
friend in the past, and how much he enjoyed
their conﬁdence, if we knew his name.

We heard the same arguments about our
lack of interest in the welfare of miners and
their families when we asked for signatures
to our Petition to Parliament a few years ago,
and on other occasions. Always, when we
venture to do something for pit horses and
ponies, we run up against this familiar argu-
ment in South Wales. That is another reason
why we are inclined not to take this present
remonstrance too seriously.

At the same time, it is something to know
that our campaign to induce people to buy
coal from non-pony pits is arousing some
interest in South Wales. It is high time.
Of course, if it is true that there is no ground
for belief that our campaign has been a success,
or will be a success, no objection, surely
need be made against it. If that is the case,
then we cannot be said to be doing .any harm
to the workers and their families. The
truth is that the South Wales coalﬁeld is
looking towards the domestic market in
England just now, and in that market it will

242

'pits in South W’ales.

have to compete with numerous English
non-pony pits. At the same time, some
progress has been made in the introduction
of conveyors in South Wales, and, taking
the coalﬁeld as a whole, it is probably true to
say that nearly one—fourth of the annual coal
output is now carried at or near the coal face
by means of these conveyors in place of horses.
Much more could be done if a more up—to—date
system of stationary motor haulers were used
in dips and headings goings to the rise. On
long level distances, mechanical auxiliary
haulage is in force almost everywhere.

We shall never be satisﬁed with‘ a state of
affairs that continues to demand the im—
prisonment and toil of those patient, long-
suffering creatures in the bowels of the deep
\We are behind none
in our demand that the conditions for the
miners, above and below ground, should be
the best that can be conceivably possible, and
made possible without delay. It is not the
miners, however, who demand the use of
horses in the mines. The horses and the
men are employed for the purpose of coal—
getting. The present system of coal—getting
must adapt itself if its potential customers ask
for coal that is not tainted by animal ex—
ploitation when it can be shown to be un—
necessary, and even uneconomic. How far
and how quickly that adaptation is made

depends, of course, on the determined demand

by the public of coal supplies from those
collieries not employing horses and ponies
below ground.

D. J. w.

 

Photo by)

(M rs. N esbift- Wood
Baboon— Victoria Fez/Zr.

 

 




 

 

ﬁlly, 1937

THE AN IMALS’ FRIEND

The. National Society for the Abolition of Cruel Sports

Secretaiy: BERTRAM LLOYD, 4, Tavistock Square, London, W.C.1.

The Fox’s “ Sporting Chance.”

HERE has been a noticeable tendency

of late in hunting circles to suggest—

apparently in excuse of the sport—that
only a very small proportion of foxes hunted
are actually killed, though such a reason by way
of extenuation is obviously quite untenable,
and indeed ludicrous. It is the sport itself
which humanitarians are attacking, not the
size of the sportsmen’s bag. The “ authori-
ties ” differ somewhat among themselves as
to the hunted fox’s sporting chance, but all
agree that it is very high One. Thus, Mr.
R. G. Mandly has stated (1928) that “ anyone
who know anything at all about hunting knows
that three out of four hunted foxes escape,”
while Mr. Lionel Edwards, in his book
The Wiley of the Fox (1952), estimates that only
one in ﬁve is killed. In 1934 the Secretary
of the British Field Sports Society assessed
the number killed at only one in ten. Major
Van der Byl, on the other hand, gives the
somewhat higher ﬁgure of two in ten—the
same as that given by Mr. Douglas Gordon
in the BBC. broadcast debate on blood-
sports on May 19th. The other defendant
of hunting, Mr. S. P. B. Mais, however,
stated in that debate that only one in seven
or eight hunted foxes is killed.

In this connection it is interesting to note
that during last year’s “ inspired ” Press
campaign on the economic beneﬁts of fox-
hunting it was stated, on the authority of the
British Field Sports Society, that approxi—
mately 15,000 foxes are killed during each
season. If this ﬁgure is correct it would mean
an average of 75 kills per pack, since there are
about zoo fox—hound packs in Great Britain.
It appears therefore, on the evidence, that a
very great deal of slaughter is necessary to
hearten and amuse hounds and hunters.
On the other hand, if the above estimates
of escaping foxes are credible, it is at any rate
perfectly clear that fox—hunting must for the
future be utterly discredited as a means of
“ keeping—down ” foxes.

Hunting and Education.

The recently issued volume of reminiscences
called Away/7720a; : I 871-1935 (John Murray,
1936) has attracted much attention, not only

on account of the wit and wisdom of the
author, a member of our society, but also
for its many interesting and amusing stories of
writers and literary coteries of the eighteen-
nineties and early twentieth century. The
following striking pasage gives the author’s
views on blood—sports :

I have just been watching young peoplemgirls,
some of them—ride by, bent on cub—hunting.
Now the thing I would like to see is all those
hunting folk turned loose in vast ﬁelds with a
savage bull at their heels. Each one alone, of
course, against a “ﬁeld” of bulls, ﬂying, pursuing,
death—dealingmand I would like the “ hunt ” to be
a ﬁne run——a magniﬁcent run—lasting two hours.

It is the educational effect that I deplore; that
young girls and people of reﬁnement should regard
hunting as pastime. »It may—or may not—be
necessary to rid agricultural districts of foxes
and other “ vermin.” It is just as necessary to
put murderers to death. But do we undertake
the task of hangmen as a pastime? The point
of view is wrong. All killing is dreadful and can
only be regarded as dreadful by an intelligent and
sensitive mind. That some deaths of animals or
men may be advisable is merely a reason for killing
as quickly and humanely as possible. It is no

' excuse whatever for hunting. War is man-made;
it is war for both sides, calamity for both sides,
whichever wins. Hunting is a pastime for one
side and a calamity for the other, which has no
freedom of choice. Where is the boasted British
“ fair—play ”P

As Others See Us.

“ Hunting is a natural instinct implanted in,
man from time immemorial, and in extenuation
of this point one might also add that it is a pity"
so many people try to suppress natural im—I
pulses instead of gratifying them, for much
so-called evil and moralising is unknown until
some prig represses these healthy instincts or
attempts to ﬁnd fault with a natural law. . . .

The colour and movement seen at a meet
enlivens many a dull village, and the distant
sound of a horn is surely more pleasing to the,
ears than the raucous voice of an anti—hunting
crank on the village green.” “ Fallow ” in

The Estate Magazine, November, 1936.)

 

The insemihi/ity which delights in reeiag a fox tom to
pieces hy heaiia’r, or feel; no pain when that exeerrihe/y
remitii’e and timoroar ereatare the hare is reen droppihg
with exhaaytimi with a path. of harrierr in fall 6731 0a itr
l‘l’YM/é, it not an element of trite man/inert, hat a Jamil/a!"
from a pre—hamah .rtate.

mil/Iaariee Adah/r.

243

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

[1le 193 7

The Scottish Society for the Prevention of Viviseetion

H071. Secrez‘my: MISS N. 'IVORY (to whom all communications should be addressed).

- Ofﬁcer: EDINBURGH—IO, QUEENSFERRY STREET.

HUMANE EDUCATION THE VITAL
NEED. '

'DR. FRANCIS H. ROWLEY, President, American
Humane Education Society.

THE greatest thing George Thorndike
Angel]. ever did was to found The
American Humane Education Society.

\Vhat is its object?
above all in the heart of the child, the principles
of justice and compassion toward all sentient
life. At ﬁrst particularly toward the world
of animal life. And. is this primarily for
the sake of the animal? No. Primarily
for the sake of the child. It is the reaction
upon the character of the child of the principles
of justice and compassion ﬁnding expression
in conduct and life that is the fundamental
thing in humane education. The child trained
to treat the lowly creatures about him as
he would like to be treated, fairly, kindly,
grows into a manhood governed in its relation
to his fellows in accordance with these same
high ideals. It cannot be said too often that
whatever humane societies have done for
animals they have done vastly more for men,
women, and children by awakening in the
soul the spirit of a great and noble humanity.

The great need in our schools to—day, in
all our educational institutions, is not a more
careful training of the intellect, but a deeper
culture of the things that make for character.
Still as of old. the word is true—Out of the
heart are the issues of life. “ Education is
not enough,” said Norman Angell a few
months ago. “ Who,” he asked, “ were
the men who plunged the world into its
last great war? ” “ All of them,” he answered
“were educated men, men of unusual in-
tellectual power.” Deep within the heart of
man lie the springs of action. When these
are selfish, inhuman, cruel, the better trained
their servant the intellect, the more deadly
the evil it can work.

This humane education, as a vital part of the
training of the children in the schools of the
world—and race prejudice, the petty ani—
mosities of a narrow nationalism, the hostile

To awaken and foster,

GLASGOW—I47, BATH STREET

rivalries between governments that lead so
often to the mad folly of war, would give
place to the recognition of all men as bound
together in the one great family of humanity.

Kith and kin with these earlier-born
children of life below us, we rise or fall in our
civilisation as we answer to their claims upon
us for justice and compassion. Far seeing
was \Villiam Blake when he wrote, “ A dog
starved at his master’s gate, predicts the ruin
of the State.” Cruel will he be, unjust
and brutal to his fellows, who wilfully wrongs
by any deed of his the lowliest thing that can
suffer pain. And who. can tell how wide that
realm is into which pain is ever casting its
dreaded shadow? It sweeps the whole com—
pass of life, we may well believe, from man
himself to the tiniest creature whose biography
is measured by the few brief hours of delight
it knows between a rising and a setting sun.
Turn to the fascinating studies of Henri
Fabre and you will hesitate to lay ruthless
hand even on the insect whose wonders of
instinct amaze and confound you. \‘Vhere
the capacity for suffering fades out of the
world’s vast river of life that ﬂows from the
Eternal, on to the unnumbered hosts that
in the sea and on the land and in the air live
out'their checkered and often tragic histories,
the thoughtful dare not say. If only we could
see how far reaching in its inﬂuence upon
human character and the very life of the nation
this humane movement is that pleads for
kindness, compassion, justice toward all that
lives, we should honour it with anobler regard
and a more generous support.

I want to quote in closing from an editorial
in one of Boston’s leading dailies. The
author of the words I do not know, but he was
a man of vision. Writing upon the very
things I have been saying, he said, “ It seems
a far cry from considerations like these to a
federation of the world, but international
peace begins, if anywhere, in that reverence
for life, for individuality, for personality,
which has its roots in kindness to animals.”

(EX/tract from a leaf/62‘ z'rmed by 1736 American
Humane Sociezjh)

244

 

 




 

 

ﬁlly, 1937

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

The League for the Prohibition of Cruel Sports

Secretary: J. CLIFFORD SHARP, 7, Victoria Street, Westminster, S.W.I.

New Forest as National Sanctuary.

AST month we referred to the deer—
L hunting in the New Forest, and on the

10th June the Times reported a lecture
by Mr. F. Martin Duncan before the Society
for the Protection of the Fauna of the British
Empire when the speaker advocated that the
New Forest should be made into a National
Sanctuary for wild life.

We supported, as we have done from our
inception, the idea, in a letter to the Editor,
which was not published.

As already reported, we hope to direct
public attention to the desecration of this
beautiful district by means of a special cam—

paign.

“ Terrible Shortage of Foxes.”

So spake Major A. C. Bovill, master of
the North Shropshire Hunt according to a
Mam/9652227” Guardian report of June 14th, and
reading further we found the reason, for it
appears that “ the hounds were going from
strength to strength,” or in other words,
ﬁelds were increasing, with the consequent
increase of damage to other people’s property.

It was a prominent authority on hunting
who some years ago prophesied that the
popularity of this sport would sound its
death knell. ~ -

Vicar Defends Hare-hunting.

We greatly regretted to read in several
North country papers on May 3rd, the Vicar
of Eggleston’s speech in defence of bare-
hunting, for cruelty to animals has always
appeared to us to be so out of harmony with
the spirit of the teaching of the Founder of
Christianity. ,

Several protests were printed but the Vicar
did not attempt to justify his action. Per-
haps the recorded witness of many of his
brother clerics against cruel sports, which we
sent him, may have induced him to think
more deeply about a subject which at heart is
an ethical one.

The Blood Sports Debate.
_ Commenting on the recent B.B.C. debate on
blood sports, the Editor of the Daily [Mirror

pointed out that it naturally ran on the lines
that the sports are cruel (or not so 'cruel)
to the animals. He wondered when will it be
asked whether they are good for the sports—
men and sportswomen?

Humanitarians have always contended that
participation in blood sports has a debasing
eifect upon the human but they ﬁnd that this
aspect of the question is usually avoided by
their opponents. Still, as the Editor suggested,
it would be interesting to invite a debate on
the moral and social effects of these “ sports.”

Uneconomic Method of “ Keeping down ”
deer.

Mr. F. L. Mitchell, the Hon. Secretary of our
Bridgewater & Taunton Branch, in a letter
to the Somerrez‘ Coamj/ Gazette concerning the
report of the annual meeting of the Quan—
tock Staghounds, suggested a better, cheaper
and more humane way of preserving the
herd of deer, and asked readers to think out
this one small point, viz., 54 deer were ac
counted for at a cost of J€1,071 or £20 per head.
Mr. Mitchell further stated that the Master
thOught this a “ most satisfactory record ”
but a business man would call it something
else.

New Words for “John Peel ” Tune.

A prominent Bristol member has written
and published stanzas which can be sung to the
tune of “John Peel” without glorifying
cruelty, and copies, together with the music,
can be obtained at %d. each or 40 for 15.
post free.

Mr. Eric Hosking, F.R.P.S.

Although he has, unfortunately, lost an eye as the
result of an attack by a tawny owl, Mr. Eric Hosking is
back in Wales at his work of Nature photography.
He, as yet, ﬁnds difﬁculty in working with only one
eye, but he and those who know him well are certain
that he will soon master his disability. This is good
news and we wish him all success in his eager and plucky
attempt to over-reach as quickly as may be the
limitations imposed by his severe handicap.

R. H. S.

245

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE AN IMALS’ FRIEND

ﬁll}, 193 7

The Humane Education Society

80, MOSLEY STREET, MANCHESTER, 2.

Prerz'dem‘: GEORGE ARLIss.

Secretary: ARTHUR MIDDLETON.

London Centre: MISS M. E. TURNER, Vice-President (former Inspector of Schools).
MISS BERNARD, Hon. Sec.

Boy’s Cruelty to Frogs.
“ LLEGATIONS that a 16—years—old

A boy had rigged up a ‘vivisecting’

table in a disused piggery in

Light Oaks Park, Pendleton, and had

mutilated frogs, hacking at them with a

knife, were made at Salford Juvenile Court

yesterday.

Mr. H. Scott Homes, who appeared for
the boy, pointed out that, in the name of
science, frogs were vivisected without an
anaesthetic of any kind.

Mr. Percy Macbeth, the Stipendiary
Magistrate, said the Bench was perfectly
satisfied that the boy had commited the
offence, and it was decided to place him
on probation for 12 months, a condition
being made that he should attend the child
guidance clinic.”

The above report appeared in the Newr
Clyrom‘r/e recently. A number of other cases
of cruelty perpetrated by abnormal children
in different parts of the country, have been
recorded in the daily newspapers.

This has led to a totally wrong assumption
by some people, that an appalling increase of
cruelty of this kind is taking place. F ortunate—
ly, a careful survey over the last 50 years,
shows that this is far from being the case.

There was a period in the 19th century,
when cruelty to-frogs~and other creatures of
fields and woodlands, and to domestic animals,
was so common amongst young people that
little notice was taken. The writer remembers
going into many districts after school hours,
and witnessing terrible cruelty. No—one ap—
peared to be upset about it, except a few
sensitive individuals.

To—day, following upon the splendid work
of pioneers past and present, it would be im-
possible for a fraction of such things to take
place without raising a great outcry.

Great Improvements.

The Press give prominence to juvenile
cruelty because it is so exceptional. Reports
filed at The Humane Education Society
Ofﬁce, from teachers, social welfare workers,
police and independent investigators, all go

to show that vast improvement has taken
place.

The proportion of cases of cruelty in relation
to the number of children in the schools, is
very low indeed. Several investigators are
convinced that if a really scientific and carefully
tabulated inquiry could be made, the young
people of the present day would come out
with very high honours, and teachers would
receive the thanks they deserve, and not the
unfair criticism which some people give.

Teachers Alert and Active.

A perusal of various communications and
books of instruction, issued by Directors of
Education, and Visits to class—rooms in elemen-
tary schools, show that teachers all over the
country are generally alert to the importance of
inculcating lessons concerning kindness, jus—
tice, right relationship to birds and animals.
This is clearly proved by discussions taking
place in assemblies of teachers and in Humane
Education Groups.

It may be true, as stated by those who com—
plain, that no formal instruction is yet author—
ised, yet it is true to say that Humane Teachings
are given through many subjects on the
Syllabus, and that most teachers agree this is
far 'better than forcing a subject in a formal
way. It is the essence and spirit of the
teaching that matters, and in our British
Schools teachers are using their discretionary
powers in a very eHective and satisfactory
way. .

We are glad to record that reports reach us
from schools all over the British Isles, testifying
to the value of 1726 Lz'if/e Ami/7241f Friend and
THE ANIMALs’ FRIEND as sources of real help.

Humane Education Shops.

Reports from our workers and independent
sources, show the great value of the practical
work done through these Humane Centres.

Miss Lilian Baron, our representative in
Weston—super—Mare, has accomplished valuable
work in the shop opened by her recently.

Parents, teachers, children, are attracted by
the posters, pictures and leaﬂets, they express

(Concluded on page 247, col. 2)

246

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

[“55 I93 7

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Performing and Captive Animals’ Defence League

Hon. Director: CAPT. EDMUND T. MACMICHAEL, I7, BUCKINGHAM STREET, ADELPHI, W.C.2.

Animal Sunday.

O Church to hear the Rev. J. H. Bailey
vicar of Norton, Letchworth, ask his
congregation to remember “ the dumb
creation especially anima‘s in zoological gardens
and others.” It is good to hear church leaders
guide the thoughts of their parishioners and we
thank him also for mentioning those who
actively try to stop the cruelty.

J

Dudley Bear and Liverpool Leopard.
For the second time within a month or so

the she—bear of Dudley Zoo has escaped
from captivity. The good lady did some
damage ere she was laid out, apparently,
several gardens and fences being wrecked—
a lamentable disregard of the sacred rights
of property. The League sent the follow—
ing telegram to the Earl of Dudley and
to the Press Association :—

“Suggest bear be killed outright if
unable to release her in natural habitat.
These stunnings are as senseless as inhuman”
The Liverpool Leopard incident went a

little farther the ending being a good deal more
grim, the keeper—John Ashworth, 35 years
old meeting his death at the teeth of “ Arix ”
a male leopard. \We feel sorry for his wife
and family, if any. The action of the zoo
authorities in exposing the leopard to the
gaze. of 100 school children half an hour after
the killing seems curious, somehow, even
granted that they did not tell them of the
tragedy.

The Croydon Lion.

Another piére d6 conﬁrm?” against the
captivity of carnivora is the mauling of the
young electrician, J. W’. M. Borrow, who was
badly mauled by a lion at the Grand Theatre
Croydon. As he had nothing to do with the
“ training ” of the animal we note with
pleasure the remarks of Mr. Justice Goddard
who did not crack the vapid jokes which are
sometimes a feature of such cases. But on
what grounds can the Grand Theatre people
justify their claim that they were not respon—
sible? Surely they were as responsible as
the “ owner ” of the animal, if not more

responsible? We are not told what the
“ settlement ” in court was, but we hope that
Mr. Borrow made a really good thing out
of it—in so far as money can compensate for
facial injuries.

How On Earth. . . ?

How, why and when did the King Charles’s
head of Performing Animals get into the
Exportation of Horses Bill? At the N.C.\X/.
Committee we were told that a Parliamentary
draftsman had done the deed. On further
enquiries it was alleged the Home Ofﬁce had
demanded it from Mr. Radford as a price
of letting the Bill go through. This sounds
a little nearer the mark, but who’s been talking
to the H.O.? In our opinion it affords a
loophole which from the old horses point of
View is tragic.

From the point of View of the League the
matter is, outside the tragic aspect, amusing.
And why? Because the performing animal
trade acknowledges that performing horses
may only be worth J€20. So they won’t be
wanting so much compensation as we thought
for their “ stock—in—trade ” when our Bill to
make performing animal turns illegal, with
compensation, becomes law.

(Continued from page 246) .
the deepest interest and a desire to help forward
such good work. -

We are in urgent need of gifts to carry
forward this work. \Ve want to extend it to
many towns and villages. \We require large
attractive posters and slogans, good leaflets
and other requisites.

We appeal to friends who are able to send
Special Gifts for this purpose, to kindly give
this their sympathetic and practical support.

In Scotland, Miss. J. Lambie continues her
excellent Humane Education Shop Campaigns.
Many districts and markets have been visited
and thousands of people, young and old,
inﬂuenced in ways of kindness and comrade—
ship towards others] This work involves
a lot of time and energy ; it is carried on under
financial difficulties. It is work of national
importance and deserves all the support it is
possible for anyone to give.

247

 

 




 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Dubbing

HIS extract is from the paper Mr.
A. P. Thomson edits. He said in his

letter that dubbing , “is done purely
out of kindness to the birds.” A case of
being cruel. to be kind ! But notice the heading
“ 50 Per Cent. More Fertile ” l

5 0 Per Cent. More Fertile.

I was present at a “ dubbing ’ ceremony
not long ago. The officiating high—priest
made very few bones about the business,
and did not even require the services of an
acolyte.

Taking a seat near the kitchen sink,
he gripped the bird ﬁrmly between his
knees, head away from him, and, starting
from the rear quickly sheared the offending
headgear in one continuous cut, using an
ordinary pair of fairly big scissors. Then,
rapidly turning on the cold tap, he let it run
over the wound for a few seconds, plucked
a soft thigh feather, and laid it‘ along the
cut, and popped the bird into a despatching
pen to recover. “ He’ll be as right as
rain in ten days’ time,” was his only remark.
(Featber World, 28th May, 1937.)

248

 

 

 

fill}, 193 7

Correspondence.

To the Editor of THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND.
DOGS ON TARRED ROADS.

DEAR SIR.—Th€ road—tarring season sees an annual
recrudescence of foot trouble in dogs, due to irritation
set up by the tar and also by adherent particles of grit.
A routine daily examination and cleansing of a dog’s
feet is a good thing, especially in summer, as, apart
from the intrusion of foreign bodies, the only sweat
glands a dog has are in his feet.

Tar can be removed by applying butter or olive oil.
Never use turpentine, as this causes agony to some
dogs. To allay any irritation, place the dog’s feet
night and morning in a bath consisting of one part of
methylated spirit to four parts of water.

Yours faithfully,
C. R. JOHNS,
Seeretao',
lVationa/ Canine Defence League.
Victoria Station House,
London, S.W.1.

ZOO MORTALITY.
To the Editor of THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND.

DEAR SIR,—Further to my letter on zoo mortality
in the June THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND, I have just
been reading through the Report; of tbe Connei/ and
Auditor; of tbe Zoological Soriet} of London for the Year I 9 3 6.
The Council’s Report states:

The number of deaths in the Menagerie investigated
by post~mortem examination was 9 54, of which
29 5 were mammalian; of these 109 died within 6
months of arrival. Of 659 avian deaths 202 occurred
during this period of acclimatization.

The mortality rate for Mammals is rather above the
ﬁgure for last year, whereas the figure for birds is
considerably less. -

The commonest causes of death are :—

I. Direare; of tbe Rerpiratory Syrtenz :159.

2. Diseaeey of tbe Digertioe {jute/n : I80.

Damning evidence of the cruelty and unnaturalness
of zoos I

Yours, etc,
ANTI—ZOO.

To Me Editor of THE ANIMALs’ FRIEND.

OPERATIONS WITHOUT ANIZESTHETICS.

SIR,—Surely the time is long overdue when the
infliction of severe pain to animals, as in cutting
operations without the use of an anaesthetic, should
be made illegal.

Take only the practice of horse castration. The
horse is cast, viz. :—thrown on to its back by having
its legs pulled from underneath it. It is then securely
tied and someone sits on its head.

The operator then uses the knife, removing the organs
The severed parts are cauterised with hot irons.

I have witnessed this very common practice, but it
requires very little imagination to realise the agony
inﬂicted, even if the operation has not been seen.

What is going to be done about it?

Yours, etc.,
ALFRED BRIsco.

Blackwell, Carlisle.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

[111); I93 7

To Me Editor of THE ANIMALs’ FRIEND.

DEAR SIR,—May I be allowed to send you for publica-
tion an account of what I personally witnessed the
other day in Durban. I may tell you that I seem to have
a curious psychic power over animals. All dogs,
with a few exceptions take a great fancy to me, and
many other animals as well. I have been in the dens
and cages Of nearly every mammal that can be found
in the zoological gardens both in England and else-
where. I have been in the dens of six lions and none
of them ever attempted to touch me. Moreover I have
been in the presence of all kinds of poisonous snakes,
mambas, cobras, puff adders, ringschlange, and other
venomous reptiles. They have crawled all round me,
but not One of them ever attempted to touch me.
I have even put my hand right inside the mouth of
more than one bear, to the astonishment of all the
bystanders.

Now, there is a little terrier who seems to wander
about the streets of Durban. He wags his tail whenever
he sees me, and runs after me. He seems to have no
owner. Well, one day he met me, and as was my
usual custom I entered a sweet-shop and bought a bun,
which I always gave him whenever I met him. He
smelt the bun, but to my astonishment refused to
accept it. On my insisting, he took it in his mouth,
then putting the bun down, he began to scrape in
some sand (which was nearby for roadmending pur—
poses) a hole in which he buried the bun. He then cov-
ered it all over with sand, smoothed it with his paws, and
ran away. Now I happened to be close by about four
hours afterwards, and to my astonishment the terrier
ran up to the sand and began sniffing about to locate
his precious morsel. Suddenly, as I was watching him,
he found his bun and picking it up, ran away with it
in his mouth to enjoy it at his leisure. Evidently
when I first approached him he was “ full—up ” and
had no room for more. Surely this was a clear sense
of reasoning, and it only shows how near after all dogs,
are to man. Our reasoning power compared with
these animals is after all merely one of degree, and not of
kind. Seeing how near these animals are to ourselves,
does it not behove us to treat them as little cousins
with affection, and not with cruelty?

I beg to
Yours faithfully,
A LOVER OF

Harleigh Hotel, St. Andrew St.,
Durban, Natal.

remain,

ANIMALS.

June .3 rd, .1 9 37.

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Barbarities of Civilization.

What misery and suffering we humans bring to
ourselves as well as to the animals by our disregard of
their feelings and of their rights! Many people.
have been badly frightened and mauled by captive wild
animals, and recently the details of an incident of this.
kind has been reported in the Press in connection with
an action for damages brought by the victim against
Croydon Entertainments Limited. The unhappy
victim is not in the show business ; he is an electrician
who, when crossing the stage of the Grand Theatre,
Croydon, to test the footlights, got too near a cage in.
which were some captive lions. According to the
evidence he was some 2 feet away when he received
a blow on the shoulder and felt the lion’s claws pene-
trate his arm and shoulder. His face was clawed through

'to the mouth, the lobe of his ear was torn OH and Mr.

Justice Goddard described it as “one of the most
horrible cases it was possible to conceive.” Our
sympathies are with the innocent victim of this happen—
ing and we hope he received substantial damages in
resepct of his injuries, but it is one of the incidents.
which is certain to happen from time to time,
so long as we tolerate the barbarism of performing,
and captive animals in our midst.

THE SCOTTISH ANTI-VIVISECTION SOCIETY

(Founded 1 876)

The objects of the Society are the total sup—
pression of vivisection, and the promotion of
kindness to, and protection of, animals.

Active propagandais maintained throughout the
whole of Scotland and organisations of all kinds.
are regularly addressed by the Society’s lecturer.

Life Membership, £5.

Annual subscription, 25. 6d. and upwards per"
annum.

Funds (which are invested in Trust Securities in
name of. Trustees for the Society) are urgently
required, and subscriptions and donations will be-
gratefully acknowledged by

JAS. A. FORSYTH, B.L., ].P., Secretary,

SCOTTISH ANIT-VIVISECTION SOCIETY,
2207, WEST GEORGE STREET, GLASGOW, C2.

 

 

THE NA TURE . CURE HOSPITAL

(HUMANITARIAN)
VEGETARIAN AND ANTI-VIVISECTION
Honorary staff of eighteen doctors, osteopaths, etc., gives services. Humanitarians of slender means may
apply. Complaints treated include skin diseases, eyesight defects, appendix and digestive troubles, women’s
ailments, defective feet, enlarged tonsils and adenoids, catarrhal deafness, goitre, spinal lesions, etc.
P/eare support i/Jz'r beneﬁcmt work.
Kindly send a donation to the NATURE CURE HOSPITAL FUND for In-Patient treatment.

Clinic and Headqzzarterr: 41 BAKER STREET, W.I.

Hours: Mondays to Fridays, I to 8 p.m.

(Telephone: Welbeck 8348).

 

 

249

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

THE ANIMALS FRIEND fniy, 1937

 

THE NATIONAL CANINE DEFENCE LEAGUE
The Pioneer Organization for the Welfare of Dogs

Gives skilled treatment to over 60,000 ailing dogs and other animals every year.
Pleads the cause of the chained or otherwise ill—treated dog, by the circulation of many
thousands of posters and leaﬂets every year.

Enlightens the public on all aspects. of dog-welfare by press propaganda, cinema ﬁlms,
lantern lectures, essay competitions, etc.

Seeks to pranibit t/ye intimation of dogs.

Membership 23. 6d. upwards.
CHAS. R. JOHNS, Secretary, VICTORIA STATION HOUSE, S.W.l

 

 

 

 

FOR HOLIDAYS THIS YEAR TR Y

ILFRACOMBE IN GLORIOUS DEVON!

l\Irs. James Allen’s Vegetarian Guest House in this lovely West Country is now so well known as scarcely
to need advertising.

Established t/Jirty—tn/ayearr it is €X€IZZ.I‘iI/€/j vegetarian.

Its liberal, varied, and well—balanced diet; the abundance of fresh fruits; delicious salads; conservatively

cooked vegetables ; the appetizing and nourishing soups, savouries, sauces, roasts, sweets, etc, have been enjoyed
by hundreds of guests.

DO COME, AND SEE FOR YOURSELF!
Send to—day for Leaﬂet giving full information. Terms are very moderate.
Miss NORA ALLEN, 33, Broad Park Avenue, Ilfracombe, Devon.

 

 

 

BRIGHTON & HOVE The Little Animals’ Friend

AN ILLUSTRATED MAGAZINE.

 

Price 1%d. post free.

Ideal Boarding Establishment Edited by JESSEY WADE.
_ Near Sea and Downs, generous STORIES, PICTURES, COMPETITIONS, ETC.
diets Bedrooms, H, and C, Valuable in Schools and Homes.
water, gas ﬁres. Annual Subscription, post free, 13. 6d.

MOdé’f‘dl‘e Tar/n5. Bound Volumes 1936. Price 1/9 per post

artistic and attracting Binding

Tariﬁ’: MR. & MRS. MASSINGHAM THE HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY,
16 & I7 NORFOLK TERRACE, BRIGHTON 80 Mosley Street, Manchester 2.

 

 

 

The League for the Prohibition Of Cruel Sports

7, VICTORIA STREET, WESTMINSTER, S. W.

President : HAMILTON F YFE
Secretary: J. C. SHARP.- Hon. Trearnrer: CANON F. LEWIS DONALDSON, M.A.
THE LEAGUE holds that it is iniquitous to inﬂict suffering upon sentient animals for the
purpose of sport——“ pleasure I ” IT CONDEMNS fox—hunting, deer—hunting, otter-hunting and
hare—hunting, also rabbit- and hare-coursing. IT DEMANDS the substitution for the animal
of a Drag. IT PROTESTS against the “ blooding ” of children, and demands its 'cessation.
Annual Subscription 55., includes the Official Journal, CRUEL SPORTS, monthly.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

250

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

ﬁzly, 1937 THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

 

 

 

 

 

 

HUMANE EDUCATION IN SCHOOLS AND
HOMES WILL END CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

OUR SPECIAL CAMPAIGN IS YIELDING REMARKABLE RESULTS.
DONATIONS AND GIFTS ARE URGENTLY NEEDED TO EXTEND THIS PRACTICAL WORK.

LEGISLATION IS SLOW AND UNSATISFACTORY.

Please help The Humane Education Society to go ahead with effective and enduring
work for Horses, Dogs, Cats, Birds, and all Creatures in need of friendship
and protection.

Reportr, Leafletr' and Journal gladly rent on application to :—

The Humane Education Society, 80, Mosley Street, Manchester, 2.
[GEORGE ARLISS, President. ARTHUR MIDDLETON, Secretary.

 

The International League Of If You Are a Cat Lover You Should Join.

St. Hubert The Cats Protection
(Bishop of Liége) League

This League has been instituted for the cessation The one society deVOted solely to the welfare

of all forngs of :lrueflty, hincluding the slaughter and Of cats and kittens.
tra in im t' d f
PP g 0 an s or uman consump Ion an or MEMBERSHIP 5/: PER ANNUM,

personal adornment. And for the purpose of bringing
before all nations the realisation of the callous taking including the Society’s oﬂicial organ,

 

of innocent life for sport and as a ﬁnancial proposition. ' “ THE CAT ”
MEMBERS? INVITED A _ M b h' S b _ , 6d
' t . . annum.
All information from ;._. ssoc1ate em ers 1p u SC11p lon 33 per
The Organising Secretary, Write for Free Literature to :——The Secretary, 29,

137, Church Street, Kensington, London, W.8 I Church Street, Slough, Bucks.

 

 

National Society for Abolition of Cruel Sports

4 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C.I
Cbairman: H. G. CHANCELLOR. Hon. Trearurer: LORD OLIVIER. Hon. Secretary: BERTRAM LLOYD

All humanitarians should buy and read

THE HUNTING OF THE STAG

By EDITH WARD.
A full account of the Carted Deer and Exmoor Stag—hunt. Price 3d.

INTERNATIONAL LEAGUE TO PREVENT

THE EXPORT OF HORSES FOR BUT CHERY

(INTERNATIONAL LEAGUE FOR HORSES), 4 BLOOMSBURY SQUARE, LONDON, W.C.I

Cbairman of Council : GEOFFREYH. GILBEY, M.C. Hon. Treamrer: H. E. BROWN
Hon. Director: BRIG.-GENERAL SIR GEORGE COCKERILL, C.B. Secretary : Mrss S. BAUM

MISS COLE’S GOOD WORK
MUST GO ON

Please enquire of the Society for full particulars and how you can help to prevent
the export of British horses for butchery abroad.

All rubreripz‘ionr and eomnzzmieationr for the [Magazine .rbould be addrerreo' , “ The Editor, ANIMALs’ FRIEND,
Featberrtone Bed/dingy, Higb Holborn, London, W.C.I.”

 

 




THE ANIMALS FRIEND ' ltd}, 1937

 

THE DOG’S BAZAAR;

Music Hall, George Street, Edinburgh

TUESDAY, 30th NOVEMBER

 

Under the distinguished pat-
ronage of the Right Hon. the
COUNTESS OF HADDINGTON
(President) and others.

In aid of

The Scottish Society
for the Prevention
of Vivisection

Hon. Secretary :

MISS N. IVORY

 

To be opened by Her Grace
The Duchess of Roxburghe

Centrz'énz‘z'ens in money or goods
will 5e gratefully received N OW
é} tee C enneners

“Susan” and“Bobbie”

THE DOG’S BAZAAR, c/o Miss N. IVORY
m QUEENSFERRY STREET, EDINBURGH

 

 

NOTE— szts for fee Seez‘z‘z'sn Tnz'l-angers’ Cine Sin/Z seen/d ee

nddrersed to “Mae,” Secretary at Me same address,

 

 

 

Printed in Great Britain .bY The Surrey Fine Art Press, Cavendish Road, Redhill, Surrey, for the
National Councrl for Ammals' Welfare, 1, Featherstone Buildings. High Holborn. London, W,C.1.

 

 

 

 




