5‘: 5R. ;... ; ll 1...: if}...

 

.. félﬁxlxegagé z 1:! . 0 mill: 4 5.51..

. 21.15% 5 3 .82.: 31 y; .. 5,... a. y; .. 3: u I;

 

. .}d.3.134.42 f

4(.:!11.,;1.J-Il:57 i5! 1"}!!!1: .

 

. ...., war»
,, ass: VmerdN’ ‘

" "~‘ ‘
. .nW‘<z°¢-R em“ ‘

 

i

mu» v90 w

 

5m 5* w- 5—; m wuma‘rc am». »

.. . my» a
_ $3,..th

1.

Missing a} ;

,5 ”35,.w-«M’W V“ «

Farewell

9

Our Lovel

 

ILLUSTRATION AND TEXT

BY DUGALD STERMER

 

 

 

 

 

CALIFORNIA MAGAZINE - “'1- 1986

 

 

T .\4$Jﬂ$ﬁkﬁ.ut ..

5“ .tzfzs (fix :1. . a .
Ek . . . .

 

.. “54.7....4 .4 .
... Jpn“
. . . 9% h
5.! _ «an. 5

 

. f. ..

 




/'
. J
.t

‘— an

.3

O
’t
.

~...\.... -. wm~ “Q. ~_ .§ M...»

....,..._.._.....a u... -n.
:

um...»~ w,v'..¢,. .- a.*.M

m..~_.\ . J. .
~o~ -- -m- -... ‘- _ -..~....‘ --—.—..«——
J _ ‘

 

 

\~ 9'

. ‘ 5i \{W,‘chsé 1

Lﬁvparc‘ 2,11)??? .

f“: ~

I 33"?" .<
1-

,
5
I

‘1

 

#33111)“ ﬂinging” P‘Pi‘i’l‘W‘C-t‘jw
I , a. ...._.t-, .1: ,.I ' 4 7

- Aa- , .«nl .

x..- __.
£15:

 

n...“ - \~<. -._tF~.,...—...r-

 

THE SAME MARVELOUS diversity of nat-
ural resources and environment that has
attracted millions of human immigrants to
California has, for aeons, provided a home-
land for an exceptional number of other
species as well. As a consequence of human
intrusion, however, many of these birds, mam-
mals, amphibians and plants, a few of which
are pictured here, have been brought to the
edge of extinction. ~
For example, 776 varieties
of our state’s native
plants are listed

.t ..;u .w.

\

.7 tq‘N..- .,»._\-r .4...» ‘¢« »

 

\
X X
‘5.

x m " ‘-
n-chCmicowwa

/ /

5.; Miss ioghlvrem‘
315ml? L‘i a... —

m...— N- .

w...»‘..-—
h..- .k ,

j ” “ ““‘“” "

...~__.,. .

as endangered or threatened, accord-
ing to the US. Federal Register. Fur-
thermore, over 60 of the 839 species of
vertebrates ofﬁcially listed as endan-
gered worldwide live in the Golden
State. In fact, no other country is known
to come close to California in this
global destruction derby.
To be fair, it must also be noted that
California has become a world leader in
conservation. Our concern has been
informed and aroused through

3 . . :1 we .. W K
ﬂmﬂmﬂﬁmMsAt

.~ . .,u.w,—..... IN“; __ - m. N. ”a...

 

61.».
[‘1' v
2%“ \%~«~

viduals and groups, from john Muir
and the Sierra Club to Friends of the
Earth, David Brower and Ansel Adams,
among many others. This growing
public consciousness has forced com-
paratively strong protective legislation
and, most importantly, enforcement.
Nevertheless, these efforts must esca-
late rapidly if we are to return
to a semblance of ecological bal- {32,
ance, for the planet loses for- i'
ever between one and three

the passionate activism of indi- species of life every day.

.' -’,..~ .4..- _.‘......._ ..<.‘....M~..m , -

. I ,
” IMMNVM . G501},
' w“ “s 15"; r. 1‘ .

a...»

.;,.f-i_,_‘ L5,:

 

. V
" V'
«a by (1‘

*5"

ubﬂﬁﬁmk

tv

'9!

~ ‘W-x-

A4-

r-r
. ”fr

 

 

 

 

 

 

v.

 

 




U.S. Department of Justice

Office of Legislative and intergovernmental Affairs

 

Ofﬁce of the Assistant Attorney General Washington. D. C. 20530

March 26, 1986

Honorable Morris K. Udall

Chairman, Committee on Interior and
Insular Affairs

United States House of Representatives

‘Washington, D.C. 20515

Dear Mr. Chairman:

We understand that the Committee on Interior and
Insular Affairs has reported H.R. 1920, a bill to establish
federal standards and regulations for the conduct of gaming
activities on Indian reservations and lands, and that the bill
may soon reach the floor of the House of Representatives for a
vote. This Department has previously expressed its concerns
with H.R. 1920 and we would like to reiterate our strong Oppo-
sition to its passage as presently drafted. In this regard, an
unsigned draft letter has apparently been circulated to some
members of Congress and was reprinted in the Congressional Record
of March 20, 1986, at page S3157. That was not an approved
letter and does not in all respects reflect the position of the
Administration.

As you know, the Department of Justice is responsible
for criminal law enforcement as well as representation of the
Secretary of the Interior in matters involving Indian tribes.
Thus, we are in a unique position to perceive all of the possible
ramifications of H.R. 1920, recognizing both the very real and
serious potential for criminal infiltration in such a lucrative
enterprise as well as the economic benefit such an enterprise can
afford the Indian tribes. The Department testified in November
1985 on prOposals to address the issue and outlined major concepts
of the Administration's preposal on Indian gambling.

A major objection to H.R. 1920 is that it fails to
recognize that uncontrolled, high-stakes gambling on Indian
reservations, involving large sums of cash and lucrative peri—
pheral service industries, will draw organized crime like a
magnet, and in its trail will follow fraud and corruption.

States with legalized gambling, such as Nevada and New Jersey,
have taken strong measures to prevent criminal infiltration and
abuse. Indians are no more susceptible to infiltration by organ-
ized crime than any other segment of society. But they are not

 




-2-

less susceptible either. An enterprise which has so much cash
changing hands will attract criminal elements unless there are
proper safeguards. H.R. 1920 fails to provide the high degree
of regulation and control necessary to ensure the integrity of
the games this legislation intends to legitimate.

Of significant concern to this Department is H.R. 1920's
fragmented approach to enforcement. First, the bill requires
that the National Indian Gaming Commission adOpt comprehensive
regulations for Class III gaming which are "identical to that
provided for the same or similar gaming activity by the state
within which such Indian gaming activity is to be conducted."
Although the Committee states its intent is not to require all
state laws relating to gaming activity be incorporated into a
federal Commission's regulatory scheme, this provision could
result in 50 different sets of regulations, which would be
impossible to monitor or enforce. Second, criminal enforcement
of gambling laws would be severely hampered because certain
states (those that have criminal jurisdiction under Public Law
280) would be empowered to enforce, while others would not.
Federal enforcement authorities do not have the resources or
expertise to investigate gambling violations based on state
laws. States, on the other hand, already have in place the
necessary enforcement mechanisms to regulate and enforce their
gambling laws. Prosecution of criminal cases arising out of
state gambling laws must remain primarily the responsibility of
the states, with the federal government playing a back-up role
within its apprOpriate jurisdiction. This comports with applicable
constitutional principles.

The Administration's prOposal to regulate Indian gambling
is nearing completion. A summary of that prOposal is enclosed.
We feel it represents a balanced approach to the regulation of
this highly lucrative, easily corrupted enterprise while allowing
the tribes to improve their economic position by promoting these
games. 'We request that the Committee postpone any further activity
on H.R. 1920 until it can consider the Administration prOposal.

The Office of Management and Budget has advised this
Department that there is no objection to the submission of this
report from the standpoint of the Administration's program.

Sincerely,

{144. (5.41.:

hn R. Bolton
Assistant Attorney General

 




gummary Of Administration PrOposal to Regulate Indian Gambling

O Gambling is divided into three categories: ceremonial, bingo
and "all other" forms. Ceremonial would be uncontrolled;
bingo would be controlled by a federal commission; and "all
other" gambling would be controlled by the law of the state
where the tribe is located. '

Tribally Operated bingo would not be permitted in any state
which does not permit any form of legal bingo. Five states
currently prohibit all types of bingo.

The American Indian Bingo Commission would be created to
license and police tribal bingo Operations. The Secretary
Of the Interior will appoint the majority of the Commission
'who will serve at his pleasure. The Secretary will also
appoint the Chairman. The Attorney General will appoint one
member of the Commission. All expenses of the Commission,
except the salaries of the Commissioners, will be borne by
the tribes Operating bingo through licensing fees.

Subject to approval by the Secretary, the Commission is
authorized to draft rules and regulations regarding management
contracts and other specified subjects relating to the conduct
Of gambling.

The Secretary's involvement in the Commission's day-to-day
decisions concerning license applications and inspections

of bingo Operations is to be minimal. The Commission is to
Operate independently in these areas, although its decisions
are subject to judicial review. The Secretary and Attorney
General will maintain overall policy control through their
authority to dismiss the Commissioners they appointed.

Any federally recognized tribe (except a tribe in one of the

five states that prohibits bingo) may apply for a license

to Operate bingo, or authorize a separate entity, such as a
tribal corporation, to do so. The Commission will then conduct

a background investigation to determine the prospective licensee's
fitness and ability (and that of any management contractor)

to run a bingo Operation in compliance with the law and for

the general economic benefit of the tribe. The Commission may
contract with tribal, federal, state, or private agencies for
such investigations. If the Commission denies or fails to

issue a license within the Specified time -- 90 days if the
prospective licensee is not going to use a management contractor
and 270 days if the prospective licensee is going to use such

a contractor -- the applicant is entitled to a hearing before
the Commission. An adverse decision would be subject to judicial

review.

Tribes shall be authorized to regulate the day-to—day operations
Of bingo establishments within their jurisdiction if the Commssion
determines they are capable of exercising such authority.

 




- 2 -

The Commission must approve management contracts, and the
legislation contains a number of provisions relating to such
contracts. Management contractors can receive no more than
forty percent of the net income from the bingo operation, but
the Commission can decide that in a particular case that a
certain figure is too much and only approve a contract that
provided for a lesser amount. Existing contracts would be
allowed to remain in effect until October 1, 1987, unless
terminated earlier by the Secretary

The Commission is authorized to issue regulations concerning
which, if any, individual employees of bingo establishments
and of management contractors must obtain a license from the
Commission and to establish the criteria for a license. The
Commission is also authorized to conduct background investi-
gations on persons required to be licensed and may conduct
these investigations by contracting with outside agencies.
The license must be issued in 90 days or the applicant is
entitled to a hearing before the Commission. The
Commission's decision is subject to Judicial review.

The Commission is authorized to inspect and examine licensed
bingo operations and to institute disciplinary action for
violations of its rules. When the Commission has reason to
believe that a tribal licensee, an individual licensee, or a
management contractor has violated a statutory provision or
rule of the Commission in such a manner that the license or
approval of the management contract should be suspended,
modified or revoked, or that a monetary penalty should be
imposed, it must give the suspected violator notice and a
hearing. Disciplinary action is also subject to Judicial
review.

 




US. Department of Justice

90-1-24-0

 

Washington, D. C. 20530

April 9, 1986

Constance F. Yarbrough
3149 King Arthur Court, N.E.
Atlanta, GA 30345

Dear Mrs. Yarbrough:

This is in reSponse to your recent letter concerning
dog and horse racing on Indian lands. The Department of Justice
shares many of the concerns that you and others have expressed
regarding this subject. I have taken the liberty of enclosing
a letter the Department recently sent to the Chairman of the
Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the House of
Representatives which expresses the Department's views on an
Indian Gambling bill currently before Congress, H.R. 1920. This
letter includes a summary of the Administration's PrOposal to
Regulate Indian Gambling.

I h0pe this information will be useful to you. Thank

you for your concern.

Sincerely,

/Q‘£H’

aseph E. Lees

Assistant Chief

Policy, Legislation and Special
Litigation Section

Land and Natural Resources Division

Enclosure

 




6—A

Sunday, February 2, 1986, DALLAS TIMES HERALD s 43

 

Study urges researchers to use
fewer lab animals, control pain

 

; From wire reports
WASHINGTON —- A growing
fnumber of American researchers
7. are trying to minimize pain and
1‘ suffering of laboratory animals and
{t0 reduce their use by developing
falternatives involving computers,
i-aocording to an exhaustive con
‘ gremional study. ’
The study released Saturday
’ concludes, however, that laborato-
ries will continue for the foresee-
able future to sacrifice millions of
. animals each year for everything
from studying cancer to testing
,cosmetics.
4 The Office of Technology As-
: sessrnent, Congress’ scientific advi-
sory arm, spent more than two
_years and $425,000 studying ani-
mal use in scientific research, prod-
uct testing and education.

It found that, while solid figures
are hard to come by, at least 17
million to 22 million animals were
used in US. research and testing
in 1983, the latest year for which
data were available.

By far the bulk of the animals
are rats and mice. Dogs, mts, rab.
bits, guinea pigs, hamsters, birds,
fish, amphibians and primates
probably make up less than one-
third of the total, the study found.

‘ The report suggested the follow—
ing as ways to limit animal use in
the lab:

V Using fewer animals by en-
listing no more than necessary to
accomplish a test, combining tests,
and avoiding duplication. Also sug-
gested _ was substitution of cold-
blooded for warm-blooded verte-
brates and being sure to alleviate

MEMPHIS COMMERCIAL APPEAL - Feb. 3, 1986

 

pain and distress.

V Use of microorganisms, inver-
tebrates such as insects and sea ur-
chins and tissue, organ and cell
cultures. The cultures must be tak-
en from animals, but the animals
suffer less distress because they
are killed before experiments are
carried out, the report said.

V Use of statistical systems and
chemical and other set-ups that
mimic biological functions.

V Use of computer programs,
which in some cases can provide
the same data as animal testing.

, Meanwhile, the Reagan adminis-
tration has suspended federal
funding for research at Columbia
University bemuse of allegations
that the animals in the experi-
ments are not adequame cared for,
the Los Angeles Times reported.

 

 

 

This HMO caters to Fido and

WEYMOUTH, Mass. (AP) —
Worried about the cost of Fido’s
physical? Troubled that Fluffy’s
frail health could set you back?

A Weymouth veterinarian
says he has an answer to those
pet-owner concerns: a health
maintenance organization for
dogs and cats. -

“There’s no Blue Cross-Blue
Shield for pets,” said Dr. Matt
Toia, director of the South Wey-

mouth Animal Care Center. “I
think there’s a need for this.”
Launched this week, the ani-
mal HMO is believed to be the
first in New England, if not the
nation, according to the Massa-

 

Fluffy

chusetts Veterinary Medicine
Association and the American
Veterinary Medicine Associ-
ation.

As with many human HMOs,
the plan offers cut-rate doctor

, animal clinic.

 

visits after an annual premium
has been paid. The yearly fee is
$95 for dogs, $65 for cats.

This is not the first time Dr.
Toia has been a veterinary inno-
vator. In the early 19703, he
drove a mobile home through
Boston’s Back Bay section to pay
house Calls on residents’ dogs
and cats. _

A few years later, he used the
same mobile home as a traveling

Working with
area humane societies, Dr. Toia
drove to rural areas to spay and
neuter pets at reduced costs. .
Dr. Toia became interested in
the financial side of pet care sev-
eral years ago when he found an
insurance company willing to
offer insurance to pet owners.
Under his plan, pet owners pay
$3 for a basic office visit. The
cost of hospitalization is $3 a day. 1

 

 

 




 

By JIM BRADY

Staff Writer

LONGVIEW -~~— The day after
Steven Fiengo died, Maureen
Jones pulled his tiny wooden-and-
iron desk out of the rows at South
Ward Elementary School and set it
beside her own at the front of the
first—grade class she teaches.

“Just ’til 1 get it out of my sys-
tem,” she said.

Schoolchildren bowed their
heads during a moment of silence
to remember the 6-year—old, who
died of severe dog bites at Park-
land Memorial Hospital Sunday.

And Donald Shipman, who po-
lice say owned the pack of pitbull

 

DALLAS TIMES HERALD - Feb. 5, 1986

Longview struggles to cope
with death of mauled boy

dogs that mauled Steven, stood
sipping btwer Monday in the door~
way of his dilapidated house, say-
ing simply, “I hate that he died."
In the days that followed Ste—
ven's death, townsfolk were strug—
gling to cope with the death of the
plucky little boy. Investigators

“ puzzled over the case, family mem-

hers grieved, friends offered conso-
lation, schoolchildren helped raise
money and local activists circulated
petitions to ban pitbull dogs.

After the boy‘s body is buried
today at Longview Baptist 'l‘emple,
his death promises to remain alive
in the minds and hearts of people
in this East Texas community.

Some people insist that charges

must be brought against Shipman.
Gregg County authorities are con-w
sidering taking the case to a grand

‘jury Feb. 12.

Some have taken up petitions
asking for legislation to ban pit~
bulls or impose fines and prison
terms for owners of dogs that in~
jurc people.

“1 don't know what good the pen
titions will do,“ said Jim Gray. a.
Gregg County commissioner who
was once attacked by a pitbu“ and

sUpports efforts to control them.
”But We've got to do something.

\NUVO got to."

The intrident leaves questions

See LONGVIEW on Page 27

wIjongview can’t forget boy killed“ by dogs

LONGVIEW —- From Page 23

And the answers lie in a tangle of
family ties and chance in an area
south of the city where Dansinger
Road rumbles to a stop.

- Past the county livestock auction
barn, past the mounds of garbage
illegally dumped in the woods, 3
cluster of weathered wood houses
and mobile homes forms the com-
munity where Brenda Sue Fiengo,
Steven’s mother, grew up.

“Not everybody’s kin, but every-
body knows everybody down
there," she said. “We all grew up
together.”

Police say the bulldogs that ran
around the houses belonged to
Shipman, who, at 48, is legally
blind and lives on social security.

But Fiengo said they were actually
given as puppies to his nephew,
Joe Wayne Shipman, who lives
with his uncle. The bulldogs were
joined by other strays, unwanted
pets that people brought to Dan-
singer Road to abandon.

Children in the neighborhood
said they often played with Oscar,
Bear and the other bulldogs. '

“They were pets,” said Laura
Shipman, a friend of the Fiengos
and Donald Shipman’s sister-in-
law.

Somehow, she said, the child
might have provoked the attack.

“He was probably teasing with
them, and they growled and he got
scared,” she said. “And the
thoughts to dogs is to attack what-.

ever is scar ."

Steven Fiengo had been at Lau-
ra Shipman’s house on Jan. 22, and
his mother told him to come up the
hill to Donald Shipman’s house
where she would be visiting.

~ She later found her son torn and
bleeding beside a heap of scrap
metal. She screamed for a neigh-
bor and they rushed him to Good
Shepherd Medical Center before
he was taken by helicopter to
Parkland Hospital in Dallas.

The dogs were all destroyed af—
ter the mauling.

Although no law prevents own-
ers from allowing pit bulls to roam
free or prevent owners from train-
ing them to attack, police said they
are still considering the case for

prosecution.

Meanwhile, several Longview
residents say the attack of Steven
Fiengo has driven them to action.

Debbie Weldon said she joined
the petition drive because of grow-
ing concern. One pitbull in her
neighborhood killed a German
shepherd, a poodle and went after
her chihuahua, she said. She
watched the same dog break a col~
ley’s leg with one bite.

Carolyn Shipman, niece of Don-
ald Shipman, was close to Steven
Fiengo and early this week lin~
gered over his death.

“We talked about him dying -~-
that it ~ wasn’t right,” she said.
“What more could happen? It’s
tragic all the way around.”

 




MW WM 77%55 .——- 2/7/0620

pot Check on Fake Furs

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

HAT are these things prowling
the sidewalks of New York —
leopards, Cheetahs, tigers, ocelots,
jaguars, zebras, Mickey Mouse?
Fear not, it’s merely the latest wrin-
kle in fake fur, the garment indus-
try’s version of costume jewelry.
What sets these newer fakes: apart
is their whimsical good humor. For
one thing, the world’s most familiar
rodent occasionally shows his face on
these clothes. For another, they come

 

 

 

in many eye-catching background
colors, ranging from honey to soft

pastel pinks and blues. We are talking

high camp here.

But there is also a more serious
side to these garments, especially in
view of public reaction against wear-
ing real furs or skins, and the fact
that buying or importing the skins of
endangered species, such as the leop-
ard and tiger, is illegal.

Most frequently, the material used
for these coats is a soft manmade pile

 

 

or plush cloth. The designs and styles
of fake furs, as the photographs here
show, vary greatly. They are, above
from left: hat and trousers in match-
ing open-ring leopard pattern, which
clash happily with a Somali-leopard
vest; hooded coat in Bengali tiger
pattern; leopard coat with tiger hat;

 




DALLAS TIMES HERALD — Feb. 6, 1986

Dog pack attacks ‘
Lewisville livestock 5

By RENEE TAWA

Staff Writer

LEWISVILLE - School and
animal control officials say wild
dogs have killed 10 domestic ani-
mals and critically injured two
others in three attacks on the
school district’s Animal Project
Center.

The dogs, working out of a
pack estimated at about two doz—

en, last attacked at the 21/2-acre
compound Jan. 20.

“They’re killing for the fun of
killing,” said Denton County Ani—
mal Control director Peggy Rich~

man. “They don’t eat them."

Richman and state game warv
den Charles Dillard say authori-
ties have responded with armed
patrols on the property and in the
woods around the project center
on Treatment Plant Road.

During the last six months, sev-
en dogs have been shot to death.
One was caught in a trap and
destroyed.

Despite the efforts that have
reduced the pack by about a

third, students and their parents
are frustrated by their inability to

See DOG on Page" 25

 

Dog packhightcns program’sgparticipants

DOG -- From Page 21

pro-
tect their livestock and worried
that the dogs may attack a human.

Their fears intensified recently
when a 6oyear-old Longview boy
was fatally mauled by a pack of
wild dogs.

“It’s pretty scary at night,” said

ninth-grader Belynda Stonerook,.

whose 6-month-old lamb, Jeffe,
was killed Jan. 20. The black-muz-
zled Hampshire was one of about
90 lambs that students raise for
livestock shows as part of their vo-
cational studies program. ~

The dogs are believed to be
mixed breeds - the product of
coyotes mating with stray, domes-
tic dogs -— and they appear to live
in the woods north of the center
near Lake Lewisville Dam, Dillard
said.

 

‘They’re killing for the fun of killing. They

don ’t eat them.’

-- Denton County Animal Control director Peggy Richman

“They get together, and they'll
revert back to the wild,” he said.
“They will attack humans if
they’re out there. They show no
fear.”

Dillard said that during the at-
tacks in the pens, some lambs have
survived by escaping through holes
in the wire mesh. Those that could
not squeeze out have been badly
mauled.

“They (the dogs) keep biting
and biting and biting," Richman
said.

Authorities said they have killed
four dogs since the Jan. 20 attack.
Meanwhile, students have patched

the wire fence surrounding the
center and added wire mesh to the
top of the 4-foot high pens.
Authorities have warned stu-
dents not to hunt the dogs on their
own because it is illegal to fire a
gun within the city limits and be-
cause they could provoke dog at-

tacks on themselves.

Despite the warnings, several
students said that they and their
parents have armed themselves
and prowled the nearby woods and
staked out the barn.

“Between animal control and
some kids and parents, several
(dogs) have been killed," said

Richard Kirby, vocational educa-
tion instructor. “Hopefully, they’ve
killed enough where they don’t
come back.”

But at the center earlier this
week, students pointed out fresh
dog tracks in mud around the ani-
mals’ pen. ’ .

Virginia Stonerook. whose
daughter has livestock at the cen~
ter, said the school district should
build better fences. “We feel the
school district should ”come out and
do something," she said. “They
buy football and drill team uni-
forms and don’t take care of things
out there."

“I‘m concerned about the stu-
dents," vocational education direc-
tor Brad Killingsworth said.
“When they run out of animals,
then what are they going to do.
We’re trying to eradicate the dogs
before they turn on humans."

 

 




Wolves Find a True

Friend in Veterinarian

By JEAN L. McCOY

Visitors hiking the trails in the Great
Smoky Mountains National Park near
Gatlinburg, Tenn., are occasionally
startled when they come face to face
with a couple of wolves. Dr. Marcella
Cranford takes her charges into the park
as often as she
is able — safe-
Cover Story ly on a leash,

of course -— to
r e a c q u a int
them with the world that once belonged
to them.

Dr. Cranford, a veterinarian, adopted
her pack one or two at a time. Some were
refugees from scientific studies who
became too accustomed to human
beings to ever return to the wild. Others
were born in her compound less than 200
feet from the kitchen door of her log
home in the rolling hills of East Tennes-
see near Knoxville.

SEVERAL of her wolves are still wild.
They pace the compound in long, loping
strides and eye the casual visitor from a
distance. Others, removed from the den
before their eyes opened, were
imprinted as pups by human beings and
are destined to become ambassadors for
their species. They travel with Dr. Cran-
ford, visiting classrooms, church and
community groups, and making televi-
sion appearances as part of an educa-
tional effort.

“Something about the wolf just elicits

 

 

 

 

strong emotions,” says Dr. Cranford.
But actual contact with a real live wolf
does much to combat fear and prejudice.

“I often ask schoolchildren to write
down what they think of when they think
of a wolf,” she says. “They’ll write down
words like ‘mea‘n,’ ‘sneaky,’ or ‘scary.’
After I ﬁnish my presentation, we do it
again and they write down ‘beautiful,’

‘,gentle ’ ‘furry.’ ”

Dr. Cranford became hooked on
wolves when she joined a research team
studying them in Canada. Her interest
eventually expanded to include all pre-
dators and led her to establish AWARE
(Alpha Wildlife Awareness through
Research and Education), a non-profit
organization dedicated to building pub-
lic awareness of the forces endangering
wildlife. “Facts are always good for
wildlife,” she says. “The facts always
end up substantiating how important
wildlife is to us.”

A hundred years ago, according to Dr.
Cranford, wolves roamed the entire
North American continent. Today, there
are only 1,100 gray wolves in the lower 48
states. All are concentrated in three
states —— Wisconsin, Michigan and Min-
nesota. “Think of a child’s tower of
blocks,” Cranford says. “Start pulling
out a block at a time randomly. You don’t
know which block will bring the whole
tower down. Destroying a species is just
like that. How do we know which one will
finally bring the whole balance of nature

down on our heads?”

 

 

 

—Photo by lt’lichael LaForest
Dr. Cranford With One of Her Wolf Pups




 

FOR

up. POOCH

THE DETROIT FREE PRESS - February 6,1986

The dog days of winer-

..1';w ’

 

 

 

Main Street Michigan/Photostory by Manny Crisostbmo

 

 

A snow—covered face is an occupational hazard for a Ul-‘l pooch but it doesn't

lonely vigil for the mail carrier.

 

3%

 

 

 

 

A doggie duel in Dodge City? Maybe it’s love at first bite as two
hearty canines exchange curious glances on a street in
downtown Michigamme. At right, a sled dog waits patiently
for his master’s return on a street in lshpeming.

 

t's a dog’s life for Upper Peninsula
pooches in winter. No softballs to
chase. fire hydrants to water. not
even a wily dog catcher to elude.

Pooches who are plucky
enough to brave icy winter winds are left
pretty much to do as they please. They
can pull a sled to town in lshpeming, wait
for a mail carrier in Atlantic Mine or meet
new friends during a peaceful walk to
town in Michigamme. ‘

There are other benefits to being a UP
pooch. Mother Nature's thick blanket of

‘ snow puts pesky fleas to sleep, at least

for a while. And your master usually will
let you sleep in the living room (it not on
the couch) and may feed you extra table
scraps.

A UP pooch also can escape the
indignities of the dog shows and pamper
palaces that downstate dogs must
endure. Now, if someone could just solve
the problem of icicles on the whiskers.

— Maryanne George

This is another in an occasional
series on Michigan small towns.

 

 




 

DALLAS TIMES HERALD - Jan. 29, 1986

N...

"a - .041»an

.‘N

_..r~ ~

{Ti

 

O

 

 

 

53,5433 £1: 13; :

Steve Krauss / Special to the Dallas Times Herald

CURB SERVICE? It would appear that Big Boy is bringing a Northwest Highway. Actually, Smoky was simply biding his‘time
rather large burger to Smoky the dog at Kip’s Big Boy on

recently at the restaurant, waiting for his owners to finish lunch.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

PEOPLE AND PETS

 

continued
KIDS AND PETS—A GOOD MATCH?

A fuzzy or furry friend may be just what your child needs
to help cope with the problems of growing up. Two new free
booklets tell you about the positive impact of pets. Get copies
of Pets Are Wonderful Companions for Latchkey Children
and Others on Their Own (enclose a stamped, self-addressed,
business envelope) and Raising Better Children; How A Pet
Can Help from: Pets Are Wonderful Council, 500N. Mich-
igan Ave, Suite 200, Dept. BHG, Chicago, E 60611.

DISHWASHING DETERGENT ALERT!

Veterinary Medicine magazine cautions against using dish-
washing detergent to shampoo puppies. The magazine re—
ports that pups have suffered from ethyl alcohol poisoning
after being shampooed with dishwashing detergent (which
. may contain 5 to 10 percent ethanol). Under certain condi-
3 tions, the substance can be absorbed through the skin.

VETERINARIAN WITH THE RIGHT STUFF
The ﬁrst veterinarian has been chosen to lift off into space.
He’s Dr. Robert W. Phillips, a veterinary medicine research-
er at Colorado State University. Dr. Phillips will be a mem-
ber of the ﬁrst National Aeronautics and Space Administra-
tion mission devoted to life sciences experimentation in 1987 .

A QUICK QUIZ AND CASH TO HELP YOUR POOCH

Is your dog destined for a long, healthy life? Gaines pet
foods’ new Canine Risk Factor Quiz will help you ﬁnd out.
1 You can get a free copy of the quiz, along with a certiﬁcate
‘ that entitles you to a $5 refund on your dog’s next veterinary
, visit (until April 30, 1986). Write to: Gaines, Vet Reﬁznd
: Offer, Box 4490, Dept. BHG, Kankakee, E 60902.

MEDICAL UPDATE

Declawing news—If you’ve tried everything and your
cat is still tearing your house to shreds, here’s good news: De-
clawing is safer and easier than ever, thanks to a new elec-
trosurgery technique. Because the procedure involves no
cutting, it greatly reduces postoperative bleeding. Cats usu-
ally go home within eight hours. (Declawing should be con-
sidered as a last resort and then for only the front paws of
indoor cats, not for cats that roam outdoors.)

Heartworm, begone—There’s a new nearly foolproof
test to detect heartworm, a life-threatening canine parasite
carried by mosquitoes. Called Filarochek, the test is 97.8
percent accurate. The Knot test, now most widely used, is
only about 80 percent accurate.

FOR UNATI'ACI-IED PET FANCIERS ONLY

A nationwide dating service is matching up singles who '

love pets. Called Single Pet Lovers, the program was founded
more than ﬁve years ago on the theory that people who care
about pets are special.

Some 700 dog, eat, ﬁsh, and fowl owners are enrolled in the
service, which publishes a quarterly newsletter featuring

biographical sketches of members. About 90 percent of the

members are college graduates, with ages from 19 to 70.
For more details, write Single Pet Lovers, Box 487, Dept.
: BHG, La Guardia, NY11371 ($29.95 annual fee).

 

 

 

DOG FANCY - March 1986

W
World

“Assistance Animal
Award” Announced

THEY ARE THE unsung heroes of
the animal world: guide dogs, ser-
vice animals for the physically dis-
abled and animals used as therapeu-
tic aids. To honor these special ani-
mals, nominations are now being
accepted for the first-ever awards
program designed to recognize those
who have distinguished themselves
with an unusual achievement or per-

formed an extraordinary service.

The new “Assistance Animal
Award? co-sponsored by Gaines pet
foods, the American Animal Hospi-
tal Association (AAHA) and the
Delta Society, will be presented an-
nually to those animals who have
been specially trained for their re-
spective purposes by recognized
education programs for animals in
the helping professions.

“Assistance animals possess a
unique sensitivity to the needs of
the disabled? notes Delta Society
Executive Director Linda M. Hines.
“For instance, an animal specially
trained to help a person with seizure
disorders may sense a problem and
get help before a seizure occurs.
They are life protectors, on call 24

hours a day, providing physical and
emotional support to their owners?

Interaction with animals has been
proven to be of emotional and phys-
ical value for both the patient and
the animal. Research has shown
that stroking a pet will lower blood
pressure and reduce stress. Ttainers
of assistance animals have noted the
enjoyment, loyalty and sense of
purpose displayed by the animals in
these relationships.

That’s why more and more ani-
mals, many selected from animal
shelters, are being utilized by hospi-
tals, prisons and other institutions
in Pet Assisted Therapy programs,
says ‘Hines. “Pets are miracle
workers. They can encourage un-
communicative patients, such as

stroke or brain-damaged victims, to
respond and ‘show renewed interest
in life!’ ,

The winner of the inaugural “As-
sistance Animal Award” will be an-
nounced at the Delta Society Inter-
national Conference in Boston on
August 20 to 23, 1986. The winning
animal and its owner will receive a
$2,000 cash award, with half going
to the animal’s training program.
Three finalists will also attend the
conference and receive a $1,000
award to be similarly divided.

Animals must be nominated by a
recognized non-proﬁt organization
that has trained the animal or uses
its services. These include hospitals,
psychiatric centers, nursing homes
and hospices, as well as animal as-
sistance and pet assisted therapy
education programs. Individuals
may recommend a deserving animal
by contacting its training program
or recipient organization. As part
of the nominating procedure, letters
from several human and animal
health professionals must be sub-
mitted to document the animal’s
training, special services to human
beings and the care it receives from
its owner.

To receive a nominating form or
further information on the “As-
sistance Animal Awar 3’ send a self-
addressed stamped envelope to: The
Delta Society—Assistance Animal
Award, 212 Wells Ave. South, Suite
C, Renton, WA 98055. The deadline
for nominations is March 1, 1986.

 




 

L

CLICK/CHICAQO LTD.

 

 

 

 

 

TOAD ALERT!
eading south with your pet? Watch out for an
innocent-looking toad that packs a toxic wallop.
The Bufo marinus toad, imported from South
. America to eat insects in Florida’s tomato ﬁelds, has
killed many dogs and cats in that state. Now the Bufo toad, which
is most active in the spring and summer, is moving northward.

The toad carries a lethal toxin in sacs on its neck. When a dog or cat bites or
mouths the toad, the toxin is released, causing changes in the rhythm of the pet’s
heartbeat. Symptoms include drooling, head shaking, very red gums, muscular
twitching and convulsions, and unusual eye movements. The smaller the pet, the
more serious the reaction will be. If you think your pet has been poisoned, ﬂush its
mouth with lots of water and scrub its gums with a wet towel. Rush the animal to a
veterinarian for treatment. Don’t dawdle! Bufo toxin can kill in an hour.

 

HELP FOR

HARRIED PET OWNERS

new program at the San Francis-

co Society for the Prevention of

Cruelty to Animals is saving the
sanity of pet owners—and often the
lives of their dogs and cats. The shel-
ter’s Animal Behavior Hotline puts
callers in touch with Gwen Bohnen-
kamp, a trained animal behaviorist
who offers practical solutions to prob—
lems ranging from house soiling (the

BEAGLES AT WOR

you may be greeted

in the airport by .;

unusual federal in- .

spectors: beagles. ,

They work for theﬁ

Department of Ag-;.;(

riculture’s Animal‘s _ ‘
and Plant Health Inspection Service.

 

hen return— a, , 1", .’ ’-
ing from a 3-. I
trip abroad, " ; ’ ‘

 

most common form of pet misbehavior)
to destruction and aggression.

For information on how to cope with
speciﬁc forms of misbehavior, send a
letter describing your pet’s problem,
along with $1 for postage, to Gwen
Bohnenkamp, The San Francisco
SPCA, 2500 16th St, Dept. BHG, San
Francisco, CA 94103.

 

Wearing green coats and guided by
handlers, the dogs roam international
arrival areas snifﬁng for products that
might carry agricultural disease or
pests. Ifa dog ﬁnds an illegal substance,
you pay a ﬁne. For a list of illegal prod-
ucts, write Travelers’ Tips, USDA/-
APHIS, 700 Federal Bldg, Hyatts-
ville, MD 20782.

 

BARGAIN HUNTERS BEWARE
hat low-priced pet food on the supermarket shelf
may look like a bargain, but some generic and store-
brand foods can cause serious damage to your pet’s

 

health. Tests at major university veterinary schools have linked certain generic
and store-brand pet foods to such problems as bone disorders, skin lesions, and di-
gestive and intestinal maladies. A recent study at the University of Georgia found
serious nutritional deﬁciencies and retarded growth in puppies that were fed
store-brand puppy food from a major grocery chain. The label claimed the food
was nutritionally satisfactory for growing puppies.

To learn more about the study, send a stamped, self-addressed envelope to
Dr. Thomas Huber, Dept. of Physiology, College of Veterinary Medicine,
University of Georgia, Athens, GA 30602.

continued

 

 

PICTURE YOUR PEI' IN

Better
mes

and Gardens -.

em, .‘ C ' j . ‘ 1" 3m ~
Misty-Blue, a Siberian husky,
sometimes relaxes with her chum,
Pop Cooke. But Misty is a busy dog.
Every day, she plays with the chil-
dren of the Community Nursery
School in Massapequa, New York.
And each week, she visits several
nursing homes as part of Love Un-

limited, a program she and her own-
er, Shirley McCarthy, helped found.

life any rabbit
would envy. She’s
' the pet of Nancy
Wadel’s class at RU. Head Elemen-
tary School in Lilburn, Georgia. In
addition to looking after MOpsy, the
youngsters read to her, rock her,
and take her for rides in a bright
yellow dump truck. Says Ms. Wadel,
“The children are deve10ping a
sense of loving, caring responsi-
bility. We all love Mopsy!”

 

 

BETTER HOMES AND GARDENS, FEBRUARY 1986

 

 

 

 




DALLAS TIMES HERALD - February 2, 1986

uidc offers high success rate ‘
for tracking down exotic game

By RAY SASSER

Staff Writer .
Depending on your point of

 

view. exotic game animals import-
ed into Texas and released for
hunting purposes are either a curse
that threatens native game species
or a windfall. that creates a pereno
nial big~game season.

Regardless of your vieWpoint,
exotics are here to stay. A recent
Texas Parks and Wildlife surVey
indicated about 100 species of exot-
ic game animals numbering at least
120,000.

The most popular species include
axis deer, fallow deer, sika deer,
blackbuck antelope, aoudad sheep
and mouflon sheep. Numerous
Texas ranches charge hunting fees
ranging from $500 for some of the
more common sheep to $3.000 or
more for rare trophy animals like
ibex.

Because many of these animals
are pen-raised and released into an
area strictly for hunting. some ex,
mics are tame and provide no
sporting challenge.

I... V . Hubbard steers clear of
such exotic “hunting" operations.
Hubbard, who lives m Leakey.

northwest of San Antonio. is a
free-lance hunting guide who spe-
cializes in white-tailed deer during
the Texas deer season and exotic
game the rest of the season.

“A hunter after exotics can get
himself skinned if he‘s not care
in ,” Hubbard said. “Some ranches
will charge day-hunting prices for
animals that were never there in
the first place. The hunter doesn’t
lose a lot of money. but he’s sure
wasting his time." ,

Hubbard works on a no-kill, no
pay commission basis with five siz-
able ranches in the scenic Kerrville
area. When customers call looking
for a specific trophy, Hubbard
scouts each ranch to locate the best
possible animal.

“Most of these ranches are
10000 acres or so," Hubbard said.
“They have a high fence around
the whole place, but the interior
fences are just livestock fences.
Our hunting is fair chase. We
mostly hunt from vehicles. but I‘ll
hunt on foot or any way the cue
tomer wants to hunt."

Prices on the ranches l-lubhard
hunts range from $600 for moutlrm
rams to $8330 for axns (Mfr. black.
buck :n’ilii‘lutw and fallnw (it‘t't‘.

That price includes the guide‘s fee.

“My success rate is about 80 per-
cent, but the opportunity to shoot a
trophy animal is more like 100 per-
cent," Hubbard said. “I get a lot of
hunters who don’t shoot well. I
also get a lot of people who bring
their kids to hunt exotics.

“Most exotics are not nearly as
wild or as hard to hunt as white-
tails, and they make good game
animals for introducing youngsters
to hunting.”

Hubbard doesn’t hunt during
June, July or August because the
heat restricts game movements to
30 minutes after daylight and 30
minutes before dark. Also, trophy
capes are in poor condition. during
the summer.

He said the best time to hunt
axis deer, the most popular of the
Texas exotics. is April and May,
Axis deer shed their antlers at odd
times during the. year. but most
shed in November and December
and have polished the new growth
by April.

Slim-vii hunting is best during the
coldest months lxxrausc the tapes
an- m the best (‘mirlitii'nr

119} pure ‘8ut

'[euuou oi paumiai peq uoneln
-dod am pm; ‘UJoq Sutaq 919m Kaqi ueqi 19
-152} Sump 9.19m siuapOJ aqi ‘uwnine Kg
-100} “91111501 ‘uiaqi putqaq Bunion: asoqi
JO Jaqumu 981121 aqi ,(q memo; pamssaid
9.19M ‘uomm-xooz sﬁes ‘guo 12 J0 93p; aqi
,{q 19m um ‘srotepald Kq uaiea 3.19M Kain
‘uado am 0111! inan QAOJp poo; JO} qomas
onum} 119m sv owns 01 ueﬁaq Kneniuaaa

pun ‘saan uned 919p pue mid/(leans won
)[JBQ am 9112 £91.11 uaql 'sem 919m 95213

Jaaaieqm pamoziap uoos salox sq;

in saxpsuiaql pug 01 pauaddeq ieqi saloa
aql 'S[ood 811111.1th5 ut paumorp pue ‘smo

 

 

 

 

 

Rev Sasser ' Dallas Times Herald

Axis deer are popular Texas exotic game animals

 




NEW YORK TIMES — February 3, 1986

Federal Financing
OfAnimal Research
‘ Halted at Columbia

By LAWRENCE K. ALTMAN

Federal research funds for many
animal studies at Columbia Universi-
ty’s health sciences division, including
its medical school, have been sus-
pended because the programs failed to
meet new requirements for animal
welfare and safety.

The suspension was ordered by Dr.
James B. Wyngaarden, director of the
National Institutes of Health, after an
unnanounced spot inspection last week.

The action affects all animal re-
search on vertebrates above the level
of rodents and is the first under guide-
lines of the National Institutes of
Health that took effect Dec. 31, accord
ing to spokesmen for Columbia and the
National Institutes of Health in Bethes-
da, Md.

Variety of Projects

The action reflects the growing inﬂu-
ence that advocates of animal welfare
are having on biomedical research.
Also, it follows a report issued Satur-
day by the Congressional Office of
Technology Assessment that said new
procedures are emerging that can re-
duce the number of animals required to
test the safety of products, but that
sharp reductions in the use of such ani-
mals would have “dangerous” conse-
quences for the nation’s health.

The ban at Columbia will tempo-
rarily halt research on a wide variety
of projects, including those concerned
with heart disease, cancer, AIDS, auto-

 

immune disorders such as lupus, ar-
thritis, infertility, organ transplant
surgery and birth defects such as
Downs syndrome and cystic fibrosis.

Spokesmen for Columbia and the Na-
tional Institutes of Health said they did
not yet know how many animals, re-
searchers and projects would be affect-
ed. The spokesmen also said they could
not estimate the amount of funds in-
volved more precisely than “several
million dollars 7’ Columbia receives $75
million from the National Institutes of
Health each year, according to Mae
Rudolph, a spokesman for the medical
center.

To prevent losses from research
projects that have been in progress for
many years, Miss Rudolph said that of-
ficials are trying to transfer many of
the animals and projects to other
N.I.H.-approved medical centers in the
area. Research on rodents is continu-
ing, in accordance with Federal ap-
proval.

Columbia was cited for deficiencies
in four general areas:

 

 

@The number of veterinarians,

QThe sterility of areas where ani-
mals recover from major surgery,

QThe housing of dogs under quaran-
tine.

QThe techniques used to minimize
health risks to laboratory personnel.

Columbia Takes Steps

Beyond these general areas of con-
cern, N.I.H. did not describe in detail
any of the conditions that led to the sus-
pension. i

_ The suspension affects funds for the
purchase, care and research use of ani-'
mais, Columbia will use non-Govern-
mental financing to continue to feed
and care for the animals, Miss Rudolph
said. ‘

Columbia has already taken steps to
regain approval of its funding in ac-
cordance with a long-range program
that was outlined before the Govern—
ment took its action, Miss Rudolph
said. Some of the facilities are “outdat-
ed,” Miss Rudolph said, and others are
“in many ways obsolete.”

“Some we corrected instantly, others

"will take longer,”.Miss Rudolph said.

_ _...-.... a..-” -.__..- ._._..._‘...a.

She said that the University had
noted many of the deficiencies in a re-
port sent to institute officials Dec. 15 in
accordance with the new Federal regu-
lations. The new animal welfare rules
are stricter, tending to rely more on re—
quirements than recommendations,
said Robert L. Schreiber, a spokesman
for the National Institutes of Health.

Mr. Schreiber said that the Govern-

'mental action only partly reflected Co-

lumbia’s own report. The action was
also based on complaints from the pub-
lic as well as the unannounced spot
visit that inspectors made on Jan. 23
and 24 to Columbia University, not just
its medical school, Mr. Schreiber said.

Other Spot. Visits Planned

The visit was one of several that
N.I.H. officials have made, or plan to
make, to recipients of its grants at
other medical institutions. Columbia is
the only one that received a suspension ‘
since the new regulations took effect,§
Mr. Schreiber said. 1.

However, he said that in recent’i
months the Government hadsuspended '
research funds from two other institu-
tions -— the University of Pennsylvania
in Philadelphia and the City of Hope'-
Medical Center in Duarte, Calif. The

a suspension at the University of Penn-
> sylvania resulted from abuses in a

head injury project.

Columbia began ordering scientists
to stop animal research after the
N.I.H. inspection team’s visit on Jan.
24, Miss Rudolph said, but did not make
a public announcement because the

University had recieved only a prelimi-
nary notice, not an official report.
Miss Rudolph called the attempts to
determine the number of animals,
projects and funds affected “a mathe-
matical nightmare.” Both she and Mr.
Schreiber said their institutions would
start trying to determine those facts
from computers this week.
Columbia’s long-range plans for imé
provmg animal care facilities include

 

hiring new directors and animal care

 

 

personnel, appointing a special com-
mittee and hiring an architectural con-
sulting firm to renovate the facilities.

The suspension will be lifted only '
afterthe institution certifies the defi~
c1enc1es have been corrected and ap-.
proved by officials of the Natioral Ir a.
stitues of Health. officials. Until then, i ‘
the agency will make no new awards to i
ammal researchers at Columbia Mr.
Schreiber said. . ”

 

-DISCOVER MAGAZINE - March 1986

THE FALL AND DECLINE OF
SOME LEVAN'I' VOLES

Israeli voles have leaped en masse into the
limelight usually reserved for lemmings,
which periodically commit “mass suicide”
by marching into the sea. Last summer,
Yeroham Kantman, the director of a ﬁeld
school run by the Israel Nature Reserve
Authority, found the corpses of about 150
Levant voles at the bottom of a l65-foot
cliff in the Golan Heights, near the Israeli-
Syrian buffer zone. A few days later he
came upon more vole corpses at the foot of
another cliff near by.

Kantman revealed his ﬁndings to the
editor of Eretz Hagolan, a small Golan
Heights monthly, which printed a story ti-
tled “March of the Mice.” The article re-
ported that Kantman saw the voles, small,
mouselike rodents with short tails, “jump
into the abyss.” (He emphatically denies
having said that.) By the time Israel’s larg—
est daily, Yediot Aharonot, printed the
story, it had become melodrama: “Lines
and lines of Golan Heights mice, in the
thousands, march to the cliffs and
throw themselves into the abyss below, to
their deaths,” thus obeying a “natural urge
to reduce their population.”

Countering the journalistic hype. Tel
Aviv University zoologist Heinrich Men-
delssohn says, “Animals don’t commit sui-
cide. Only humans do.” So how did the
voles die? Probably by not watching their
step. The rodents don’t have a keen sense
of height, says Israel’s leading authority
on Levant voles, zoologist Zohar Zook-
Rimon of the Nature Reserve. If they
come to the edge of a precipice, they’re as
likely as not to fall oﬁ".

But why would hundreds of voles be at
the edge of a cliﬂ‘? Except when foraging,
voles live about twelve to an acre in bur—
rows that are four to 24 inches deep. How-
ever, last May, just before the mass deaths,
the vole population on the Golan Heights
for unknown‘reasons swelled enormously.
Suddenly there were 2,400 per acre.
Eliezer Frankenberg, preservation coordi—

nator at the Nature Reserve, says that on
visits to the central Golan area, he saw vole ‘
holes every inch or so.

 




though I were in her dream. The
cats moved a safer distance away
when I approached, but they
hovered nearby for a while. To—
gether we stooped until the last
cat went away.

We talked in the half light of
dusk. I think we realized then we
would always be good friends.

i I went to Mission Rock only
one or two more times with
Sonya, but we visited each other ’5

homes many times. I learned to
love all ten of her house cats. Al-
though I was not yet 30. Sonya’s
thoughts and attitudes were so
young that I always regarded her
as one of my contemporaries.

When I moved to Virginia. I
realized I was leaving behind my
best friend. Several times I’ve
tried to get her to move East near
me, but she can’t bring herself to
leave the Mission Rock cats. She

knows no one else would feed
and care for them the way she
does.

A few weeks ago I talked to
Sonva on the phone. She told me
thatvher feeding place at Missmn
Rock had been fenced off. but not
to worry. She had found a place
along the fence under which she
could crawl. “Long live the cats.
she said. And long live the cat
lady, I thought. I I

GRIT - Feb. 16-22, 1986

’ Pets Praised

" As Valuable
Companions

Americans refrain from put-5
ting their favorite pets in pots and
, cooking them up because dogs
' and cats are more useful as com-
panions, protectors and educa-
tors than they are as dinners,
says an anthropologist at the Uni-
versity of Florida in Gainesville
who studies and tries to make
sense of human culture.

“These animals are just too
darned useful to go around eating
them,” says graduate research
professor Marvin Harris. He;
challenged the idea that pets are I
useless and frivolous.

“Dogs, cats and horses would
not have been domesticated were
it not for the services they
rendered in hunting, protection of
: property, rodent control, trans-
'poration and warfare,” he
. explains.

MOST pets in Western society
today are kept for their value as
entertainers, educators, com-
panions and protectors.

“Modern-day household pets
can’t match the entertainment

 

; value of lions attacking elephants

I' h

 

or people in the Roman circus,”
e says, “but cats chasing ima-
ginary mice, or dogs retrieving
bouncing balls are at least as
amusing as the late—night
movie.” -

The most important role pets
ﬁll in society is that of compan~
ion, Harris said. He called mod-
ern pets “proxy humans,” who
compensate for unsatisfactory

_ human rleationships.

Harris cited reports of psy-
chiatric patients who were given
pets after refusing to talk to doc-
tors. Talking to the pets helped
some patients become comfort-
able enough to converse with
their physicians.

Pets also act as protectors.
Harris said dogs cost about $385 a
year to support. “I can’t say how
many crimes 3 dog deters in his

, lifetime, but it would only have to

scare off one or two burglars in its

' 10-year life span to pay off the

investment,” he says.

51

Resourceful Dog
Outwits a F ire

When a heat lamp in a storage
shed at the home of Sandra
Schrader in Farmington, N M
fell into the box bed occupied b '
Kako, a Queensland Heeler, and
her seven pups, a fire began in
blankets and paper used for insu-
lation. There was no one home at
the time.

Kako didn’t move the pups. She

o ‘ :9f the ﬁre.
g iEz‘i'Schrader said she came
home to ﬁnd Kako had dragged
the insulation to the lawn and had I
pulled the heat lamp away from
the bed. !

 

 

 




THE A-V MAGAZINE — January 1986

 

“Long Live The Cats.”

 

THE CAT LADY

My first day of work in the
classified department of the San
Francisco Examiner was differ-
ent from any job I’d had in the
past. It was noisy and fast-paced.

By 11 o’clock in the morning I
felt like panting under the strain
of noise and the process of learn-
ing names and a new job. It was
then that I noticed one of the
women sitting at her desk. She
was not talking incessantly like
the others. She seemed consid-
erably less gregarious as she did
her job. She was a large woman
with hair so newly gray that it
still seemed black. Although she
was about 60, her face was smooth
and wrinkle-free with the excep—
tion of laugh lines ardund her
eyes, which were the color of the
sky on a cloudless afternoon. She
was pretty. Her clothes told me
she was different from most
women her age; she was dressed
more like a hippie. Later, when I
began to give her telephone mes-
sages, I noticed how polite she
was. Sonya always said “Thank
you,” never “Thanks,” or just a
grunt like the others. I tried to
engage her in conversation the
firstvfew days I was there, but she
didn’t seem to want to talk to me.

Towards the end of the first
week, I found myself having
lunch in the employees’ lounge.
Oddly it was empty of everyone
except Sonya. She had with her
a book whose jacket bore a pho-
tograph of a gorgeous orange cat.
I asked if I could look at the book.
She seemed mildly pleased,
handed me the book and asked
if I liked cats. I assured her that
I did and as I looked through the
book (which was full of cat pho-
tographs), I could feel her study-
ing me. From that time on, she
seemed more talkative.

 

by
LaVerna DeBenigno

 

One evening, just before quit-
ting time, I went into the bath-
room. There I saw something
most unusual. I know I stared,
but for how long I don’t know.
Sonya was standing at the sink
with large bottles that had some
white powder in them. She felt
the water with the inside of her
wrist and when it must have
seemed right, she added water to
the powder, replaced the jar lids,
shook the contents and carefully
put the jars in an insulated bag.
When she turned around and
asked me if I needed to get to the
sink, she wore the most peaceful
expression on her face. Spell-
bound, I ignored her question
and, instead, asked her what she
had been doing. Instantly I sensed
my question had invaded her
privacy. Her face told me what
she thought of my curiosity, but
she said that she made a couple
of quarts of milk every afternoon
to give to some wild and home-
less cats she fed at Mission Rock.
Mission Rock, I knew, was not a
very savory place, being fre-
quented mostly by drunks and
dock folk. Having begrudged me
that much information, Sonya
zipped up her insulated bag and
returned to her desk.

My job caused my family more
hardship than help, so I gave it
up after having worked only three
weeks. That was the end, or so I
thought, of my contact with the
cat lady.

About six months after I left
the job, I received a note from

 

 

Sonya saying my dentist had
called my old office number to
remind me of a dental appoint-
ment. She included her phone
number both at work and at home
and said she would like to hear
from me.

That night I called Sonya at
home. She seemed genuinely
pleased to hear from me. We were
having a pleasant conversation
when I asked if I could meet her
at Mission Rock and help her feed
the cats. There was dead silence
on the line, and then with a tense
“No,” she quickly ended our con—
versation.

A couple of days later Sonya
called me. She apologized for her
abruptness on the phone and in-
vited me to watch her feed the
Mission Rock cats. The only
stipulation was that I had to stay
in my car (to avoid scaring the
cats) until she gave me a signal
to join her.

I was very excited about my
mysterious cat outing and had a
hard time waiting until it was
feeding time. As I drove to the
Mission Rock area and noticed
how desolate it looked, I got
scared. Suddenly, I saw her car,
and then Sonya, wearing a black
cape. She was bent over pouring
milk onto a cat food mixture.
There were many cats of every
color and size all around her.
When she heard my car stop, she
turned around to me and her face
was beautifully radiant and
blissful. She looked as though
heaven could make her no hap—
pier. She turned back to her furry
friends for another ten minutes
or so and then gestured for me to
approach. I tried to be as quiet as
possible in getting out of the car.
As I stooped next to her. I felt as

(continued on page 18)

 

 




LONDON, ENGLAND SUNDAY OBSERVER - Feb. 2, 1986

r Bruce Fogle decided to

conduct a survey on where

his patients. slept: 50 per

cent, he found, slept in

their owners’ bedrooms,

35 per cent on their

owners’ beds. Even

though the camp ﬁres

went out long ago and we

moved indoors at night,

the sight of sleeping

animals reassures man that

there are no intruders. that

all is well. One patient, a Great Dane, slept on
his owners’ bed to the exclusion of his owners
who good-naturedly moved into the spare
room. Dr Fogle’s practice being in the West
End of London, half of his patients live in the
lap of luxury and the other half on nearby
council estates, and he has daily occasion to
marvel at what pet owners, grand and humble,
will put up with. One girl often arrives wearing
odd shoes. Her dog suffers from phantom

pregnancies and purloins her shoes as

phantom puppies.

We are keeping more pets (companion
animals, they are called) than ever before.
Times are harder and feeding more expensive,
yet the, number of cats and dogs we keep,
especially the poorer of us, increases each
year. Ten per cent of the population keep dogs;
96 per cent keep cats.

‘All the ties that keep society emotionally
sound,’ Dr Fogle said, ‘things like religion and
the three-generation family structure, are
dissolving, and pets slip into the vacuum. They
are a constant factor. You may lose your job,
your children will leave home, but the pet is
always there, always ready to listen. I go on
visits to the seventh and eighth ﬂoors of high-
rise flats where people are too frightened to go
out, and I see how important animals are.’

Pets, it is well-known, are good for your
health. Stroking a furry friend lowers the blood
pressure. It has even been suggested that a
well‘behaved dog has many of the advantages
of a good psychotherapist.

‘Indeed yes,’ said Dr Fogle, who has the
melting brown eyes and gentle ways of the
animal lover, ‘he is non-interventive, non-
judgmental. He never says: “Who were you
with last night?” or “Why don’t you ever say
you love me?” What is more, he loves you. You
may be eight years old or paraplegic or ugly,
and he still loves you. He needs you. He makes
you take exercise and he makes you laugh. It’s
all corny but it’s true.’

He keeps a dog, a golden retriever called
Liberty, and he knows why: she’s an excuse to
fool around and feel young again. He always
sends her in to wake the children up in the
mornings. They come down to breakfast in
good humour.

His own destiny was determined by a dog,
another golden retriever called Honey. It was
1970. He was a young Canadian vet with a

2. The leader of the

doctorate from the University of Guelph on a
year’s visit to England. Honey had swallowed a
balloon at a party and her owner, the actress
Julia Foster, in gratitude to him for ﬁshing it
out offered him seats for the play she was in.
How many would he like? One, he said. So they
fell in love and got married. He never went
back to Canada. They have three children and
they had Honey until two years ago when she
died at the age of 17.

His surgery is a cheery place with pine
furniture and gas logs burning merrily in the
grate. It is a place to make both man and pet
feel better, unlike doctors’ waiting rooms
which seem designed to make a sick man'feel
worse.

Seeing patients at the rate of 5.000 to 10,000
a year, he came to realise that, once he had
dealt with the symptoms they presented, the
real interest lay in how they got oh with their
owners. He was particularly interested in dogs.
Why were they allowed to do things
inexcusable in children, such as bite people,
scratch the furniture, race round the room
without touching the floor?

Science has neglected pet ownership as a
subject for serious study. Scientists, he said,
liked esoteric subjects. ‘They might be
interested in the pet-keeping habits of some
declining tribe of South American Indians but
not in why western dogs are possessive about
their owners’ smelly slippers.’

In 1980 the British Small Animal Veterinary
Association asked him to organise an
international symposium on the role of pets in
society. It was the ﬁrst airing of the subject in a
nation of animal-lovers.

The nub of the relationship between man
and dog is a misunderstanding. Dogs see us as
pack leaders or top dogs; we see them as furry
people; more confusingly, as different sorts of
people. We see them as children, parent
substitutes or transitional objects. This is why
we are put out when they behave like dogs.
snifﬁng guests --in embarrassing places and
eating unmentionable things.

Dr Fogle knows couples who stay together
because of the dogs, and owners who give their
dogs valium and dry martinis, and others who
use their dogs, those alarming Rottweilers and
Weimaraners, as weapons that they cannot
control. He once knew a man cry bitterly when
his dog had to be put down; his wife said just as
bitterly that he had loved the dog much more
than he loved her. It was -a rare chilling
moment and Dr Fogle felt out of his depth.
‘Deﬁnitely not my department,’ he said ﬁrmly.

There’s nothing simple about pet ownership.
How can there be when we choose to treat as
parent, child or transitional object a creature
bred to root woodcock out of the undergrowth?
We refer, of course, to the cocker spaniel.

The dog’s view of his master as leader of the
pack is much more straightforward, but
accepting this role is the coup de grace to
notions of loyalty and devotion. Ii?

 




l.
2
l
l

The relationship between man and dog, says ondon vet
Bruce Fogle, is based on a fundamental misunderstanding.
Nonetheless, he told Maureen Cleave, pets are good for us.
Photograph of Dr Fogle and his own dog by Barry Lewis 23

 




‘We fantasise about loyalty: my dog
will protect me if I’m mugged, save
me if I'm drowning. It may do these
things if it is trained to do so.
Otherwise it may jump in the water
because it looks like fun. When I
wrestle with my son, he thinks our
dog is coming to his rescue but really
she just wants to join in. When your
dog rushes to meet you at the door
he’s really saying: “I'm happy that a
member of my pack has returned and
now we can play." ~

‘lt's the immutability of the dog, its
constancy, the fact it doesn't change,
that the owner interprets as loyalty.’

It was all quite hard to swallow. As
children we may not have believed in
fairies but we all believed in Nana, the
dog who looked after the Darling
children and who alone realised the
menace of Peter Pan.

Dr Fogle's own dog Liberty cannot
be relied upon to leap to his defence
but she can bark frighteningly on
demand. Or so I was told. I met her,
dancing along the street, a dizzy
blonde being taken for a walk on the
end of a lead by her dog-walker.

‘She’ll bark when she sees you,‘ he
said, ‘because you're wearing a hat.’
But she didn’t. She danced straight
past. She didn't notice my hat; she
didn't notice Dr Fogle. This, he said,
was because she was pretty stupid and

because she was looking forward to
playing with the dogs in the surgery.
Dogs, he said, can only think of one
thing at a time.

He relies heavily on this limitation.
Faced with a large strange patient, he
will glance ﬁrst at the dog’s notes. If
it’s called Vicious or Fang, he will
approach it quite differently from how
he would were it called Brian.
Avoiding looking the dog in the eye.
he will kneel down, while talking to
the owner and offer the dog a yeast
tablet. With any luck, it will decide to
think about the yeast tablet.

Incidentally, his patients now tend
to have people's names. The most
popular dog’s name is Ben; the most

popular bitch's name is Sally. ‘It's 10

years since I saw 3 Rover,’ Dr Fogle
said. People don't grow like their dogs;
they choose them to enhance their
own appearance in the ﬁrst place.
‘There’s a strong element of
narcissism in pet-keeping,’ he said. ‘If

you’re a skinhead with tattooed arms, ‘

you’re not going to walk an Afghan.
You’ll have a short-haired breed like a
Doberman.’

Men anxious about their mas-
culinity will keep a big macho dog.
Homosexuals are quite happy with
smaller dogs, or even cats. A really
smart person will have a designer
dog such as the Shar Pei or Chinese

Wrinkle Dog. These became fashion-
able when they appeared in a Nieman
Marcus catalogue at $4,000 the
pair. They are covered in wrinkles,
have horrifying skin problems and
are under the surgeon’s knife when
a few months old to prevent their
wrinkled eyelids closing for ever.

Nevertheless people go to pains to
keep them and Dr Fogle says they are
absolutely charming.

As an animal-loving nation we are
way behind the French, even further
behind the Americans. He has a chart
that shows what percentage of pets
are in which hands:

Per hundred of the population

Dogs Cats
UK 10 9.6
France ' 17 126
USA 21-6 17-4
Germany 5-5 5-8
Sweden 96 96
Japan 3-9 2

He ﬁnds it curious that the French
and Germans should live next door to
each other and have such a different
approach to pets. He would also point
out that the Japanese have the most
rapidly increasing pet population in
the world, although the average
dwelling space is only 300 sq ft.

More research into cat keeping is
necessary. He himself has noticed the

curious springtime phenomenon of
flying cats. In the spring, people leave
their windows open and the cats take
to the air. If a cat falls from a second-
ﬂoor window, it suffers no injury;
from the third or fourth floor, its
injuries will be severe; from the ﬁfth
and sixth floor, fatal. From the
seventh floor and upwards, it will
suffer slight bruising. Dr Fogle has
been in touch with American
specialists in aerodynamics and their
conclusion is that a cat, given enough
time in a free fall, will stretch out its
front and back legs, thus giving itself a
fraction of aerodynamic lift to slow
down the end of the fall.

He likes pet owners. He ﬁnds pet
owners nicer than the rest of us.
When their pets die or have to be put
down, he sends them a little note of
sympathy and he often receives pages
in reply. He understands how pet
owners feel. Honey's body was not
cremated, which is what happens to
most of his patients when at last they
close their eyes. Dr Fogle may have
meant no more to her than any pack .
leader, but he buried her in
Derbyshire beneath a sycamore tree
with her basket beside her.

His book explaining his theories, called
‘Games Pets Play’, will be published by
Michael joseph, £9.95, on 10 February

 

 




 

 

 

 

INSIGHT MAGAZINE - Feb. 3, 1986

Animal Talk

School is never out for Phoenix and
Akeakamai. So far, the two have spent
about seven years building their vocabu-
lary, learning the rules of grammar and
using that knowledge to respond to
sometimes complex commands.

But don’t call them slow learners.

The two 9-year-olds are female .dol-
phins and the star pupils at the Univer-
: sity of Hawaii’s Kewalo Basm Marine
Mammal Laboratory in Honolulu. They
are also teaching their trainers a lot
about the essence of language, says the
lab’s director, Dr. Louis Herman.

E MAMMAL LABORATORY

Z
t:
<
.2
..Z_
3
O
.2’
B
u:
x
5;
2
LU
>
,,w
.J
z
5
<

Jags?”

T nguage lesson for Akeakamai

Akeakamaj (whose Hawaiian name
means Lover of Wisdom) was taught a
language similar to sign language for
the deaf, which uses gestures for words.
Phoenix was taught a language that uses
computer-generated sounds for words.
These sounds were broadcast under-
water, Hennan says. ‘

Not only can the dolphins under-
stand certain words, they also are able
to understand that words strung together
in one way mean something different
when they are strung together in another
way, he says. ' .

Using plastic toys ﬂoating in a pool,
the dolphins demonstrate that they can
distinguish between the. commands
“Get the Frisbee and take it to the surf-
board,” and “Get the surfboard and take
it to the Frisbee,” Herman says.

The dolphins’ understanding of the

lationshi between objects Opens up a
l:hole uneiiplored avenue of behaVioral

'nin . he sa 5.
tralForgexaniplé, a trainer can teach a
dolphin a new action by teaching. the
animal the words describing that action.
Prior to this, Herman says, training a
dolphin to perform a particular action
was often a laborious maLand-error

pfOCCSS .

 

 

 

OX 870

The editors of COUNTRY JOURNAL wel-
come the views of readers and will publish
as many letters as space permits. Corre-
spondence should be addressed to Box
870, Manchester Center, Vermont 05255.
No unsigned letters will be considered.
We cannot guarantee to reprint letters in
their entirety and reserve the right to omit
portions thereof.

ON GAME MANAGEMENT

In “Rural Persuasion” for November
1985, T.R. beautifully evokes the silent
gray woods experienced by the deer
hunter, and his desire to know the woods
and to live more simply is irreproachable.
Killing a deer, however, as the “elegant
excuse” to do so cannot be justified, and
so T.R. turns for support to the state
game managers. They tell him he’s help-
ing deer by hunting them, but he’s get-
ting his information from people whose
salaries are paid by the sale of hunting
licenses. The public, and T.R., should be
aware that game managers manipulate
the environment to produce target
animals.

They maintain and encourage deer
yards and small clear cuts in the woods
to generate browse, thus keeping the
deers’ food supply unnaturally high. As
a result, and coupled with the removal
of 14,000 competitors by hunters in the
fall, a wintering pregnant female will
carry her fetus to term rather than reab—
sorb the embryo as she would if the food
supply were short. Those at Vermont
Fish and Wildlife are actually working to
get her to produce twins more often.
These activities increase population.
The practice of killing bucks also up-
sets natural population dynamics by
leaving so many (reproducing) females
that an “antlerless season” has to be
called to cut down on them and their
young offspring. Even though this of-
fends certain sensibilities and enrages
hunters who simply want more and more
deer, it is “scientific management.” Ver—
mont Fish and Wildlife expects to fine-
tune the operation by 1990 for a regular
kill of 15,000—20,000 deer every fall. The
deer herd becomes a crop, a “harvestable
renewable natural resource.” The game ,
management that has made it so has
nothing to do with the needs of deer, and
it is a positive detriment to other species
and to wilderness in general.

We could return the management of
deer to nature so that factors like cur-

 

 

COUNTRY JOURNAL - Marc

h 1986

tailed birth rate, accident, disease, and
starvation could function properly to
control population, and we could do so
gradually and humanely. Of course, some
starvation is necessary and benefits other
creatures like coyotes, crows, and fisher
cats. We need these animals, they are na-
ture. To interfere as we do is not man
helping nature, it is hunters helping
themselves. Wildlife would benefit if we
paid game-management agency person-
nel out of general tax revenues rather
than from license fees so they would not
have to be responsive to those who con-
sume wildlife.

I hope that TR. and others like him
will continue to enjoy the woodlands, but
I hope in time that they will learn to leave
their guns at home. The disturbing
sound of gun blasts rends the quiet air
hereabouts each November. At that time,
we all give up walking in the woods and
jogging along the roads because it is con-
sidered dangerous to be out. Civilized
humans should not be satisfied with such
a solution to the imbalances in nature
which we have created.

Bonnie H. Dodson
Bradford, Vermont

 

 




Looking back, even the basic idea

 

Great White Nort stl we ongs to we ves

now seems foolish. Chase timber
wolves with snowmobiles? Besides the
unwise practice of harassing wildlife
with machines (something not often
debated nearly 20 years ago when this
experiment occurred), there was the
overall question: What would you do
with a wolf if you caught one?

Ever see a mature wolf up close?
However nice they are to their pups,
they are big, mean brutes with uneven
tempers. They can get very nasty very
fast, especially when cornered.

Actually, the object wasn’t to cap-
ture or even shoot a wolf. The maga-
zine who had asked for the story (in an
era building toward the height of the
snowmobile craze) wanted more a
“cowboy” approach, sort of a ride ’em
out and round ’em up routine ending in
action photographs of snarling wolves
run to exhaustion and surrounded by
the guys in the white hats — the
snowmobilers. ,

Then the wolves were to be let go.
The very idea now brings a smile.

THE GROUP of intrepid Detroiters
(no names here to protect the guilty as
well as the innocent) hauled its gear all
the way to Wawa, Ontario -— stacks of
snowmobiles, spare parts, tow sleds,
food, fuel, down garments and rifles
(you would walk up to photograph
even an exhausted wolf without one
nearby?) Two photographer-friends
joined us from Toronto, a hint of
skepticism in their attitudes.

Snowmobiles were dismantled and
heaved aboard Beaver aircraft on skis.
The 80-mile flight into the cabin on the
lake was uneventful. So was reassem-
bling the machines. A pile of frozen
beaver carcasses awaited, left near the
cabin’s clock by a friend who guided
fishermen here in the summer and
trapped the area with his wife all
winter. He had dumped the remains
after removing the valuable hides.

The beavers were bait. Lure the
wolves to bait placed far enough out on
the ice, we reasoned, and we could
jump on the snowmobiles and chase
them down before they could regain
the timbered shoreline and disappear.
After all, it worked for coyotes and
foxes on the Straits of Mackinac each
winter. All we had to do was put out
the bait and wait.

A ROARING FIRE and an oil heater
kept the cold at bay that first night. The

cabin was snuggly warm inside. A

meal of walleye caught through the ice
and smothered in onions, fruit and
butter nestled warmly in our stomachs.

Outside, the cold literally crackled.
Sixty below zero. Muffled snaps, like
tiny explosions, marked frozen tree
trunks and branches actually rent by

 

 

 

the extreme cold. Although a new
moon phase left the sky a uniform
black velvet, stars sparkled with a
bursting brilliance that created enough
light to read a printed page. Soft waves
of northern lights, an aurora borealis
hung like huge undulating curtains of
silver and gray, rippled beneath the
stars.

Far off, faint in the icy air, came the
eerie cries of a pack of wolves on the
hunt

We did not see the pack that next
day. Or even the next as we toured the
lake and placed the baits. The wolves
vanished with the dawn. A freshly
killed cow moose was discovered, a
source of several days’ meals for the

pack, and that, too, was dragged out '

onto the lake’s icy surface.

Behind the cabin’s frosted windows
we waited, binoculars in hand, drink-
ing coffee and tea, playing cards —— like
pilots waiting to grab their flight suits
and scramble to their machines at a
moment’s notice.

ON THE fourth day, the alarm
sounded. Gloves and hats flying, we
leaped aboard our mechanical steeds,
yanked their snarling engines to life
and zipped out onto the lake —— an
uproar not lost on the lone wolf spotted
on the bait pile. One machine was
substantially faster than the others. Its
rider jammed the throttle wide open
and raced away on an angle to cutoff
the departing wolf, what turned out to
be a big reddish-colored male.

When he caught up, as near as we
could tell from the distance at which
we observed it, a game of tag ensued.
The snowmobile was careening crazily
this direction and that. He was turning
the wolf, we reasoned, chasing him
back from the shoreline so we could
catch up.

Suddenly the little machine shot off
at an angle. The wolf curved the other
way and gained the timber just before
we arrived.

“Why didn’t I s him?” Our ques-
tions brought an incredulous look to his
face. “He was chasing me! Damn near
caught me, too!”

The shaken snowmobiler said that
if we wanted to continue chasing
wolves, we could do it withOut him,
thank you.

“Those teeth came within two feet

of my backside,”he said,tryin g to light
a cigaret with wobbling hands.

THAT NIGHT, the entire pack, led
by the big red male, showed up outside
the cabin. We didn’t discover it until
necessity forced me outside — after all,
we had only an outhouse (quickly
dubbed the Ice Palace by frozen survi-
vors). The pack was gathered around
the leftover beaver carcasses, nipping
at them and each other and, at my first
spoken greeting, stopping to stare at
me and growl softly.

They didn’t run. I only imagined the
red, burning eyes in the nightly gloom,
I’m now certain. It seemed different
then. A gray female suddenly turned
her muzzle Skyward and emitted an
unearthly yowl. Several others imitat-
ed her. The hair on the back of my neck

stood straight up, and I shivered invol- a

untarily.

Maybe this wasn’t such a great idea. 2

After spirited consolation, we opted
to chase not one more wolf the remain-
der of the week’s stay, although ice

 

fishing, bouts of drinking and r g
and an idiotic drunken midnight r.

15 miles to another lake to visit the

PET/em 7‘

trapper and his wife kept boredom at \

bay.

The final night,the pack returned.
We took turns standing on the cabin’s

tiny porch, talking to the wolves and l

l
l
l
l

occasionally toasting them. They j
yipped and yowled and snarled once in
a while and, after an hour or so, .

departed.

Wolves are only animals. But some-

how their final visit seemed to empha-
size what we had finally realized. We
were the intruders, the puny ones
unprepared to survive.

This lonesome expanse of awesome,

 

l
I
l
l
l

frozen wilderness was theirs, not ours. 5

ﬂ? EE
?/@E§S

g2 gyg’é

 




8E /The Houston Post/Thurs, February 13, 1986

Merchandising cats are out

By ELISE GIBSON

 

USTIN (AP) — Orlando, the
‘ feline philosopher of fash-
ion, drapes himself across
a sofa cushion and graciously al-
lows the stylish customers of St.

Germain to pat his pampered head

as they pick out clothes. If he likes .

them, he may accompany them to
the fitting room, or he may help
them write their checks by posi-
tioning his portly body across the
counter.

Across town, Yvonne, a petite
tortoise-shell cat, sleeps peaceful-
ly amid the racy red underwear in
the lingerie case at Maharani. And
at Charles Leutwyler Jewelers,
Mama Cat luxuriates on a warm
heating pad and shows off her
quarter-carat diamond necklace.

Cat lovers and cat haters may
never agree on the finer qualities
of felines, but it’s undisputed that
cats know a good thing when they
find it. Cats who have won the af-
fection of Austin shop owners are
‘ in the enviable position of being
admired, petted and praised by

scores of people a day.

Some cats, like Orlando, remain
unspoiled by the attention. Even
though his likeness —— as Orlando,
the philosopher of fashion — is re-
produced in advertisements for St.
Germain, as well as on T-shirts
and sweaters that are sold in the
clothing store, Orlando remains
dignified.

“He’s quite above it all,” said
Mary Gayle Stromberger, co—own-

er of St. Germain. Even a birthday

party in his honor in August, at
which he received a dozen catnip
roses and a cake decorated to look
like him, did not undermine his re—
gal bearing.

But other cats, like Figaro at
Cliff Fort Flowers, take advantage
of their favored position to get into
a little mischief. Figaro, a robust
lB-pounder, loves nothing more
than to ride around on a custom-
er’s shoulders. The only problem is
that while enjoying his lofty perch,
he tends to drool. .

Figaro has lived at Cliff Fort
Flowers since owners Caroline and
Robert Jenkins adopted him from
the Humane Society eight years

ago. One of his favorite tricks,
Caroline Jenkins said, is to sit on a
shelf filled with vases and pretend
he’s a statue until a customer gets
close enough for Figaro to take a
swipe at him. He doesn’t do any
harm, really, he just likes scaring
people, she said. Nice kitty.

Customers at St. Charles Gal-
lery sometimes get a start when
they realize the huge cat among
the stuffed animals on the couch is
real.

“She thinks she’s one of them,”
said Todd Schrock, who works for
St. Charles. “Her name is Bar—
tender, but we call her Fleabag.
She’s a fat old cat who just hangs
out.”

Since Fleabag loves to doze
among the merchandise in the
window, several customers have
inquired as to her price. “We just
tell them she’s priceless,” Schrock
said.

One should not get the impres-
sion, however, that these shopcats
do not earn their keep. Gus, a fa-
miliar fixture at Garner & Smith
Bookstore on The Drag, was
adopted in 1983 to scare off the rats

of the bagahd into the shop

that had moved into the ceiling.
He did.

Then he took on the bats that
had taken up residence in the art
book section. Carol Slutes, a book-
store employee who selected a
then-svelte Gus from an animal
shelter, said it was quite a sight to
see Gus chasing down a low—ﬂying
hat. “I haven’t seen any bats
since,” Slutes said.

His job well done, Gus has re-
tired from hunting and now spends
his days reclining on the sale table
and eating his way up to a thun-
dering 15 pounds.

Although they live in the lap of
luxury now, most of these shopcats
had inauspicious beginnings.
Mama Cat, for instance, was a
streetwise cat who made her home
on The Drag before she decided to
settle down in a respectable jewel-
ry store 13 years ago.

Yvonne, the Maharani cat,
found a home after owner Cindy
Galindo heard crying sounds be-
hind the walls of her shop. Galindo
called in maintenance men who
broke open a hole in the wall and

found a tiny, hungry kitten inside.
Shop owners report few com-
plaints from customers, and, in
fact, several said customers make
special trips just to visit their
shopcats. Bridget McCan, who
works at Maharani, said one of the
few complaints about Yvonne
came from a woman who thought

it was unethical to keep what she
thought was a stuffed cat in the
lingerie case. She was appeased
when she discovered Yvonne was
alive and well.

“Most people like her really
well,” McCan said. “No one seems
to mind that there’s a cat sleeping
on the underwear.”

 




SUNDAY magazine
section

CHICAGO TRIBUNE
Feb. 9, 1986

ranger

What to do upon learning
that your cat has strong
poinions about real estate

his is what happened to Robert
the Cat.

We moved from a house to an
apartment in summer and we
thought Guinness the Dog might
not adjust. She is an old dog
now, and an apartment was a

new trick.

Guinness, however, is terminally stupid, and
the move did not distract her from her first
order of business, which is to find a patch of
sunlight and sleep in it until she becomes all hot
and sweaty. Then she goes into the bathroom,
where human beings keep a nice bowl of water
for dogs. After drinking her fill from the toilet,
she comes out of the bathroom, finds another
patch of sun and takes another snooze. Guinness
is 11. She is brown. She chases squirrels, even
when she doesn’t see them. She ran into a tree
once and was puzzled by the experience. Actual-
ly, I have rarely written about Guinness because
she is totally unremarkable save for the fact
that she can roll over when you say, “Roll
over.” Terrific, huh? -

Robert the Cat kept the house mouse free. But
we were not going to turn Robert out into the
world just because our new apartment did not
have mice.

Robert, however, decided he did not like
apartment living. Not at all. We had the litter
tray all set up and the bowl of cat food and
water and even a saucer of milk ready in the
morning [as he requires], but he did not like the
apartment. I didn’t realize we had to consult
him on the matter, but that was the way of
things.

He made his dislike known in various ways
familiar to people who live with cats. I cannot go
into it here because this is a family newspaper.
If you don’t know, ask a cat person what a cat
does when it is displeased. _

I felt incredibly guilty. That is what cats do to
you. Dogs can never make you feel guilty
because they are so obvious a collection of
hustlers and con men that you can’t believe a
dog has a sincere bone in his or her body.

Cats, on the other hand, maintain a facade of
cool about life until the facade breaks down in
moments of pique and you realize the cat—who
was minding its own business—is terribly hurt
by something you did.

Robert was becoming a smelly problem.

I do not believe in killing animals for their
own good, which is a religion practiced in the
name of anti-cruelty by various agencies dedi-
cated to the welfare of pets. So I wasn’t going to
turn Robert in, but I didn’t really know how
much longer we were going to be able to put up
with dirty bathtubs.

So I lamented one day to Phil the Bartender at
a joint on Rush Street.

Phil listened with professional sympathy. In
Phil, this manifests itself as a distant look that
says: I would rather be digging ditches in a
freezing rainstorm in Burma than be listening to
this dum-dum at the bar, even if he leaves me a
tip

 

Much to my surprise, at the end of my story,
Phil said, “I’ll get my ex-wife on the phone.
She’ll take the cat.”

“She will?”

“She’s a cat person,” Phil said. He said that
when he was married to her, he would lug cats
out the front door and down to the Anti-Cruelty
Society in droves while his wife was bringing in
more cats through the back door.

To make it short, she said to me over the
phone that she would love to see Robert in her
home.

As it turned out, Robert was to end up in her
friend’s home next door, but her friend also
loves cats, and they cooed over Robert in his
special cat cage and said Robert was a beautiful
cat and Robert was the best thing that ever
happened to their neighborhood on the Far
North Side. _

You might think that on the day I gave Robert
up, I felt a tug on the old heartstrings. You know
nothing about cats if you think that. Cats are
cool. Give up old Shep and you weep for days
because that is the con that dogs work. Cats
don’t con. Believe me. I got the bathtub to prove
it.

So a week later I see Phil again and thank him
profusely for helping me find a good home for
Robert. And then I see his ex—wife in the bar,
and she tells me, with great good humor, the
good news about Robert.

“It was wonderful,” she bubbled. “Robert was
in the house the first night and my friend had
Robert sleeping on the bed, when Robert jumped
off and ran through the dark house.

“She wondered what was going on. Well, do
you know what Robert did?

“He came back to the bed. And he had a nice
dead mouse in his mouth, and he gave it to my
friend to show that he was happy to be in the
house with her.”

I said I was happy, too.

She said I could come over any time and visit
with Robert.

I thanked her.

have not taken her up on the invitation.
The one cat I really liked was Frank the
Cat, who preceded Robert and who
walked away one day because that is
what Frank felt like doing. Frank
thought I was a chump. Robert proba-
bly thought the same thing, but he was
too cool to show it.

I will be cool as well. No mourning oVer
Robert for me. He has a new life, and so do I.
But I never realized until Robert that there is a
kind of cat who wants to be a homeowner and
not an apartment-dweller. If we had bought a
condominium, maybe it would have worked out.
But you never know about cats.

Excuse me now. I have to go. Guinness is at
the bathroom door Trying to get in. I

 

The nice new photo of me that appears with
this column was taken by my friend and fellow
gourmet, Jack Lane.

 

 




Suggestion by Day’s Son grewinto

Continued from Page -1.

 

an animal show," Day said. “I said hold
it . . . what kind of an animal show?
And they said a talk show, with celeb-

CBNshow on animals

rity guests and their pets.”
_,Day nixed that idea. right quick. “I

didn‘t want to do a talk sh0w,” she said.
“Talk shows are boringThen Terry
said, ‘But this doesn’t have to be just a
talk show with people and pets. We can
add music and have a guest, and do a
sketch and have a reporter doing stor-
ies about remarkable pets and animal
lovers. And we can have a veterinarian
to give animal owners good advice.’

“That last was what got me,” Day
‘said. “PeOple are so ignorant about
their animals. This was a way to get
information across. . .-

“Anyway, then Terry said, ‘This will
be the most fulfilling thing you’ve ever,
done in your life.’ And you know some-
thing? He was right.” ‘ ‘

They may still do that album, using
the songs they do on the show. And Day
is in fine voice. She sang me a few bars
to prove it.

Best Friends sold double quick. “We
didn‘t try the networks. They would
never have bought a pet show, any-
way,” Day said. “But we didn’t’have to
go to them. CBN wanted it because
CBN is the home of family entertain-
ment on. TV. They’re buying all the
good old family sitcoms, and we fit
right in their mix.” '

A dog-food manufacturer jumped at

the chance to sponsor it, of course. So _
with Melcher and CBN’s David ‘Freyss '

as co—producers, Best Friends took off
running. - .
It’s on CBN twice a week, at 6 pm.

Sundays and 7 p.m.Fridays. And CBN {:1
can‘t get enough of Doris "Day. They’ve .

just bought her old sitcom reruns. The

Doris Day Show now airs‘at 11:30 am. ‘

Monday through Friday.

“We tape one show (of Best Friends)
3 week, and we do it at this beautiful
ranch about 15 minutes up. the road
from where I live,” Day reported.
“We‘d planned to do it at my house, but

I have too many dogs. They’d have I

barked their heads off at all that com-
motion." '

One of her best friends, the late Rock
Hudson, was the guest on her premiere,
and news cameras from everywhere

converged on Carmel to film their re-

union in July.

That film ran over and over again

 

during the weeks that followed. Shortly
after that reunion, it was discovered
that Hudson was dying of AIDS.

“I hadn’t seen Rock for several
years, and I was totally unprepared,
Day said of Hudson’s ravaged appear-

ance. “I was so shocked at the sight of

 

 

him, I almost went to the floor. That
handsome, robust man, and then to see
him like that . . .

“I gave the acting performance of
my life,” she said sadly. “I couldn't let
him —— or anyone — know how shocked

I was.

4__-——

————

“When he came up here, I didn't
know he had AIDS. He didn’t tell met»
He said he was getting over the flu, and
I asked him to stay with me. The air is
so good up here, I thought it would help
him. But he wouldn’t stay. It’s really .a
tragedy. . . .

“We were such good friends.” she
said. “He always called me Eunice. and
my name for him was Ernie. We had
the same sense of humor, and he was
such a gentle person. I really miss him
bless his heart. I have to believe. and ,I
do believe, that life is eternal. I think I-'
will see him again. and we‘ll laugh to-
gether again.”

She sighed. “It’s been a hard month,“
she said. “Gordon MacRae just died. I
adored him. And a good friend in Palm
Springs passed away the same day as
Gordon. And Donna Reed. In the old
days, we used to see a lot of Donna and
her husband.” .

Thinking about the show made her
feel better.

“We’ve been so fortunate with our
guests,” she said. “I do know so many
people in the business, and most of
them have pets and love animals as
much as I do.

“They don’t bring their own pets be-
cause they fly up to do the show. But
we have a lovely catered lunch, and we
talk a lot about their pets."

Angie Dickinson is a cat person. Day
said. Tony Randall and Howard Keel
have dogs. Mickey Gilley doesn‘t have
a dog. but he wants one. “And Bob Wag-
ner has everything - dogs. cats and
even birds.”

She works five days on the show. and
the rest of the week on her Doris Day
Pet Foundationthe SPCA and any-
thing else that has anything to do with
helping animals. .

.The foundation is a home for home-
less dogs, and Day runs a tight ship.
Everything is spotless, each dog gets
individual tender lovmg care, and the
goal is a new home with “the proper
family.”

“We never let our‘dogs go without
checking on the family, to make sure
that the animal fits their needs and
will have a good home," she said.

Since the TV show, mail pours in
with ,new members for the foundation.
“It‘s $20” for the membership, she said.

“and that includes a certificate, news-
letters and a catalog of all kinds of
things to buy, from sweat shirts and
jackets to pictures of me with my dogs.
We get many requests for those. as
birthday presents to other dogs. I write

 

 

on them myself — ‘Happy birthdav to
Rover from me and my dog — which-
ever.‘ so they‘re all personalized."

She doesn’t miss Hollywood. but oc-
caSionally she does yearn for 3 Holly-
wood party. .

‘ “I’d love to go down to a big gala.
just to see all my old pals.” she said.

“I miss them. I’ve been up here four
years, and that’s a long time.”

How long does she ho e to kee d ' .
this show? ' p p (mg

“I can’t answer that.” she said with a
chuckle. "But it is such great fun. and I
do feel it’s a real public service. F ortu-*
nately. I still have a lot of fans who~

. write to me, so I know they haven’t
m» :

forgotten me.” "r
She may do another movie someday. ,

“If something really good came.
along I would do it — if I could do it up-
here,” she said. “I still get sent a lot of
things, but I want to work here. not
there. And in the meantime, I’m about I

as busy as I can be. I have my pet
foundation, my animals, my friends;
I’m having fun. ~ :-

4

“And the best part of all is my Best

Friends.” she said with a happy lilt.
This show has brought me so many
new best friends. Everybody writes me

and_ sends me pictures of their best
friends.”

This show has been a way to use her
name and her fame to do something to

‘ help her friends. she says.

“And that.” she said. “is what we all
should do in this life.“

As. Doris Day would say on Doris
Days Best Friends, that’s what friends
are for.

A

 




 

I ILLEVI3IUN

 

THE HOUSTON CHRONICLE - 2/12/86

Many of Day’s ’Best Friends’ are

 

 

Doris Day’s work on behalf of animals, as demonstrated by Doris Day’s

Best Friends on CBN, is “the most gratifying, most fulfilling thing I have
ever done In my life,” she said.

LINT EASTWOOD for mayor and Do-
ris Day for city council —- it’s a
campaign ticket to blow the mind.

“I know,” said Day, lighting up our long-
distance with her best America’s—favorite-
movie-star giggle. “But since he’s an-
nounced for mayor of our town, I think I
should run for City Council.

“We would make a team, wouldn’t we?
And just think of all the good I could do for
my animals.”

Day and Eastwood live in the same pic-
ture-pretty California village of Carmel, but
they’ve never met.

“Strange, isn’t it? Our paths just never
crossed, I guess. But I do love the idea of his
running for mayor, and I do have the feeling
that he’s a nice man and a good business»
man. He runs a big company, so he should
be businesslike about running a town.

“After I’ve heard him speak, if I like what
he has to say, I’ll work for him. And maybe I
will run for council. Who knows?” She
laughed again.

When the phone rang, Day was “doing

what I’m always doing,” finding a home for .

an orphan dog, feeding her own family of
canines, and helping one of her helpers wash
doggie dinner dishes.

“I do all the feeding myself, twice a day.
And don’t ask me how many I feed. I can’t
tell you because I keep adding more all the
time . . . Wait a minute . . .

“Hey, somebody,” she called, “the puppy’s
out front chewing on something. See what
he’s got there . .. I got that puppy when
Tony Randall did our show, and my son and
his wife were supposed to take him, but she
has cats, and they didn’t mix, so he’s mine
now. He’s a darling red husky and into ev-
erything.”

Emergency over, she was back on the
line. “So where were we? Oh yes, the show. I
love the show.”

The show is Dan's Day’s Best Friends ——
friends, as in human and animal. It’s now
one of the most pepular numbers on Chris-
tian Broadcasting Network’s cable channel.
CBN is one of cable’s biggest, and it leads
all other basic cable networks at attracting
women viewers.

Day, no longer a spring chicken, is still
eminently watchable. I suspect she has a
picture hidden in her closet, a la Dorian

 

 

ANN
529.5%
TV-Radio Editor

 

 

 

 

Gray. You’d never guess that she’s a
grandma, but she is.

She’s still as bright and bubbly as she was .

back in the years when her big Technicolor
movies were making box-office registers
jingle.

She hasn’t made a movie in a long time,
but she’s busier now than she’s ever been,
and happier, too.

“Listen,” she said, “this is the most grati-
fying, most fulfilling thing I have ever done
in my life. Not that I didn’t love my career.
I did. I do. I never did really retire. They
said I did, but I didn’t. I just moved to
Carmel, bought this beautiful house and did
it over, all myself, and settled back to enjoy
it. I’d just finished five years of my TV
series (The Doris Day Show), and that was
tough. I was ready for a rest.”

Her rest was a short snooze.

“I’d just finished the house when my son
(Terry Melcher) asked me wouldn’t I just
love to be doing some music,” she said. “He
was right, of course. I do love music. But I
never thought of doing it because I thought
I’d have to go to Los Angeles to record, and

I have a lot of senior citizen dogs here that I -

sirnply cannot —— and will not —— go off and
leave.”
Her son didn’t take no for an answer.
“He convinced me I could do it here, so I

brought in a pianist (and) we started to work.

out, to get the voice in shape.”

Melcher and his buddy, Bruce Johnston of
the Beach Boys, wrote some new songs for
her. One of them was Best Friends, now the
theme song of the TV show.

“That song did it, I guess. We were talking
about doing an album, and one day they said
why not do a TV show?

“I asked what kind of show, and they said

 

See SUGGESTlON on Page 6.




VEGETARIAN TIMES - January 1986

Hunters, Drought
Putting Kangaroos
On Road To Extinction

the world’s most unique animals—

Australia’s kangaroo—could be extinct
in 20 years. In 1981, the kangaroo popula-
tion was estimated at a healthy 32 million,
but it has dropped dramatically since then;
according to Australians for Animals, there
are less than eight million left.

Australia’s outback has suffered the worst
drought in its history and meteorologists
predict droughts will reoccur until the 19905.
It’s estimated that it will take up to eight
years for the kangaroo population to recover
from the drought, and zoologists recommend
that kangaroo hunting be halted until it’s over.

But instead of a ban, the Australian
government has approved record high kill
quotas for kangaroos in order “to placate the
kangaroo industry and powerful ranching
interests,” the Kangaroo Protection Fund
(KPF) charges. And, like in the US, the
killing of endangered wildlife species in
Australia is allowed under a goverment
“management program.”

The assistant secretary for the Queensland
United Graziers Association, Louis Siedle,
told the Brisbane TeIegraph that “after a
drought, they (kangaroos) breed up
remarkably quickly and they have to be kept
under control.”

The kangaroo industry is desribed as
“small, but politically powerful,” with legal
exports of $7.5 million annually. Australians
for Animals charges that black market ex-
ports (often mixed in with bales of wool and
bundles of fox skins) are just as large.

Kangaroo meat is sold in Australia as pet
food. But, because it frequently contains
salmonella and parasitic worms, six of
Australia’s seven states have banned the sale
of kangaroo meat for human consumption.
The Australian government, however, does
allow the export of millions of pounds of
kangaroo meat for human consumption to
Europe and Asia.

B ecause of drought and hunting, one of

Kangaroo hide is used to make athletic
shoes, cowboy boots, purses, wallets, and toy
koala bears. There is also a large “curio”
market which sells kangaroo-paw bottle and
letter openers, kangaroo-skin postcards, and
mounted heads.

In the US, imports of kangaroo products
were banned in 1974. But in 1981, the ban
was lifted after seven years of intense lobby-
ing by the Australian government. Robert
Mrazek, a Democratic congressman from
New York, has sponsored a bill that would
again ban all kangaroo products.

But it was letters—not legislation—that led
the MacGregor Golf Company (golﬁng great
Jack Nicklaus is their president) to discon—
tinue its $800 “Muirﬁeld” kangaroo-skin
golf bag. In a letter to the KPF, a MacGregor
vice—president, stated: “MacGregor did in
fact discontinue all sales of kangaroo skin
golf bags in 1985. We did pay heed to the
many people, such as you, who alerted us
to the inhumane manner in which these
animals were being killed.”

The Adidas Corporation is now manufac-
turing a $125 kangaroo leather running shoe
and sales are predicted to total 30,000 to
50,000 pairs. KPF is now targeting Adidas
for their next letter-writing campaign.

Australian missions in London, The
Hague, Bonn, and Paris have already been
ﬂooded with pre-addressed postcards pro-
testing kangaroo killing, and Australia’s
Department of Foreign Affairs is worried
that the issue will damage Australia’s image
abroad.

Representatives of Australians for Animals
also addressed the European Parliament in
Strasbourg, France, this year, asking for a
ban on European imports of kangaroo
products.

For more information, write: Kangaroo
Protection Fund; 1346 Connecticut Avenue
NW #714; Washington, DC. 20036; (202)
331-3206.

World Farm Animals Day
Observed

it October, animal rights activists from
| Boston to Ypsilanti, Mich., observed the

world’s third annual World Farm Animals
Day.

Organizers said that this year’s observance
was the best so far—in terms of people in-
volved, highly creative events, increased
media attention, and greater public aware-
ness of the issues.

Bad weather failed to dampen the spirits
of the ﬁfty people in Washington, DC. , who
braved the rains to hear featured speakers
Tom Regan, Ingrid Newkirk of People for
the Ethical Treatment of Animals, and
WFAD organizer Alex Hershaft.

At the United Nations building in New
York, 150 held a funeral procession and
listened to speeches by author Cleveland
Amory and Henry Spira. In Chicago, activ-
ists staged a poignant rededication at the gate
of the old Union Stockyards.

Caged activist “chickens” in Philadelphia

and Providence, R.I., lectured pedestrians
on animal abuse, while picketers in Denver
rallied around a colleague confined in a veal
crate outside a gourmet restaurant.

In Seattle, a menagerie of “farm animals”
gave away potatoes in an “Eat a Potato, Save
3 Chicken” campaign. At the University of
Wisconsin, hundreds of students watched
video footage of factory farming.

Vegetarian dinners and receptions were
held in Cleveland, Houston, Los Angeles,
Miami, and New- Orleans. In Boston, a
highly publicized reception was given at the
State House, and in San Diego a funeral
service for farm animals was held.

Demonstrators gathered at slaughterhouses
(Denver), packing plants (Des Moines), and
meat markets (San Francisco). Pickets were
also staged at experimental agriculture
stations (Tucson) and outside US Depart-
ment of Agricultural buildings (St. Louis).

In all, over 30 different events were organ-
ized across the United States to draw attention
to the plight of the six billion animals
slaughtered in this country each year. WFAD
was also observed in Australia, Austria,
Canada, Finland, Great Britain, Israel, New
Zealand, Poland, and West Germany.

“The purpose of these Observances is to
acknowledge the tremendous debt we owe
to the billions of innocent, feeling animals
that are abused and slaughtered for food,”
said Alex Hershaft, “and to call public
attention to the grave threat posed by today’s
intensive animal agriculture to the public
health, to the world’s food supplies, to our
agricultural resources, and to the quality of
our environment.

“The date selected, October 2, is the
birthday of Mahatma Gandhi, a prominent
protector of farm animals and advocate of a
simple vegetarian diet. Gandhi advised that
‘the greatness of a nation and its moral pro.
gress can be judged by the way its animals are
treated’.”

 




 

VEGETARIAN TIMES - March 1986

Montana Allows Hunters
To ’Harvest’ Buffaloes

w'x

' "' 3‘s... ' -. x‘ . ‘3 _> .. “5.1“

ast year, Montana game ofﬁcials killed
(or “harvested”) 88 buffaloes that
wandered out of Yellowstone National
Park, but now the state government has given
the job of shooting strays to local hunters.
And Fund For Animals, a group headed by
author Cleveland Amory, has been trying to
get park ofﬁcials to keep the buffaloes inside
Yellowstone where no one can shoot them.

Glenn Chase of FFA told Vegetarian Times
that the state of Montana had averaged
$40,000 a year from the sale of buffalo hides
and meat. She added that buffalo heads, at
a reported $350 each, are another potential
moneymaker for big game trophy hunters. By
allowing hunters to do the shooting, Chase
said, the legislature gave in to “pressure by
residents to get part of the spoils.”

Ranchers and hunters argue that the stray
buffaloes could spread brucellosis, a disorder
which could cause cows to abort and also
spread undulant fever in humans.

But Marian Probst of FFA calls this “a
complete non-issue” and claims there have
been no documented instances of brucellosis
being transferred from buffaloes to cattle.
Chase added that the threat of disease could
be easily eliminated by innoculating the
herd—a measure she claims would cost only
$1.25 an animal.

After failing to get a temporary restrain-
ing order against the hunt, FFA ﬁled a suit
which would force the National Park Service
to keep the buffaloes from wandering out of
Yellowstone. Joe Flynn, Montana’s director

of Fish, Wildlife, and Parks (the agency
supervising the hunt), said his department
is trying to persuade Yellowstone ofﬁcials to
do the same thing. “Then the hunting would
not have to take place,” he told VT.

Buffaloes are migratory animals by nature,
FFA members say, and do not recognize the
boundaries of the park—from which they are
often lured by the long sweet grass ranchers
grow for their cattle. And while the buffalo
is no longer an endangered species, its habi-
tat is decreasing rapidly and Yellowstone’s
2.2 million acres are becoming too small for
the growing herd of 2,200.

As “a stop-gap measure to get the buffalo
some sanctuary this year,” Probst reports that
FFA has obtained free grazing rights for the
buffalo on a 12,000 acre plot of land known
as the Royal Teton Ranch. In return for out-
lawing buffalo hunting on the land and
allowing free grazing, FFA will build a per-
manent fence on the ranch which will keep
the buffalo out in the future. Of the 88
wandering buffaloes shot last year, all but
two were shot on this land.

The owner of the land, rancher Ed Francis
of Corwin Springs, does not speak favorably
of the hunt. “There’s no sport to it,” he told
Time. “The animals are very dumb, and they
just stand there and allow people to kill them.”

Probst is urging people to “express their

,xdisgust” in the Park Service’s “abdication

'/

':
3
l
l
l
'.

l

of responsibility” by writing William Penn
Mott, National Park Service Director,
Department of the Interior, 18th and C
Streets NW, Washington, DC. 20240.

//

qeut
'ne sute[dxa

aupooow 1sa81e1 aqi ewemief) a
anpoooso 009 pue 8.101831“?
I —- semdal ooo‘z moqe tmm am
e aplAOJd mm 093$ alaqm aouenua aqi
1e anel 9 qnm sKes suowalo “‘tuaq)
JO mo 19d asnoq e 2))le t‘uop noA”
‘emelotem sumo all

181191 emu '8

'qoots Butpaaiq
009‘

stq JO stseq aqi aweoaq teqi $3.1m
439.10 aqzi Burdden eateuief u! sqiuoul
‘uue; amdal Stu pnnq

u; stq paseqomd an
01 alaq paAow L961 ur pue tseoo Kas

eds ‘1951 ur ‘pue "0N ‘uoiﬁunu

‘llM "l 313015 [9111

mo; in

'SJeazi .10} euteJ

meg um padIaq aAeq ‘ueq ‘uos isapla

Jaq pue ‘901 mm; ‘aoaru suorualg
'mﬁual U! 1an 31 18891 12

th moq uteueo Jo; ﬁes ueo auo 0N...
aq 01 Jeadde mam 30 spaip‘unH 'spoom
q31q1 aouo sem teqm oiut paAJBD aq

'u086 000% 01 dn

'000‘9$ PUB 009‘Z$ ‘009$ 319 8811900010

sum Baud am MI 911qu 009$ 01 00%
JO} 03 Kan, '1an 17 01 dn asoqi sapnp
-ui AJOSBWO ixau 9th made 091$ .10;
qtﬁual ui saqout ()1 01 9 Buunsealu $101
-efime A‘qeq Slam suouialf) 1nq “ewei
meg 1e isq aoud paisod ou saleq‘L

uaf maN aqt uo moqsapts Joieflme ue

peq suomarg "$0951 pue so»

'SJassedsan
JO SJeISan to .188} ou seq suowalg

‘1ods Klauol .l

Eutqiﬁue weld rusaop

oqm JanB} epuom [enuaa e st suoui
‘90 [1393 " (dV) 'Blel ‘H'IVGW'lVd

sameq .1an9} engoH

aqiel e ut 3.18 aJaq seq
same 91 am uﬁnouuv
‘Lz 'S'n no 80810! Stu usm

oqm sisttnoi 01 Bunnie; awn sq) to 180w

spuads pue

‘Jawoisno e seq aq uaqm

1qu aweu e “
eq awoq pue
Aluo sisa/ueq ‘

ed

1,, pue ‘sKes aq ‘JoieS
'039 SJeoK

UOUJQK)
()9 tnoqe aawwtsstx ut UJoq ‘suow

61 am uI

'sanpooom qum 19111311.]
anp seq an 'semdei
aqi Aq unq [ﬁsnouas uaaq JaAau sen

‘5

9.10m amq e w,
"un‘S e 0101 0) anoua th sem 1 songs"

~qu ue .10} toadsol
8.10183 punose uaaq seq 3
«313 sunep ‘saieig panun eqt at 111.18}

Iﬂ

stq JO 1som

dins 191m

saw .10 team
osn 01 ueld A‘aqi Bumuu
M aq ‘samdal

am 01 iuawqoene Bum srq to asneaag

om aqi punoxe Butﬁunol uaas
qoois Butpoalq paau Mqtsuenso oqm

a pue 3.101123qu
50 ans aq1 st smusm sasu

Slaqio 01 puom aq; punOJe sanpoomo
pue SJO‘lBB sdiqs pue sues suouialg

-pe aqu‘ue 01 [[as mu m

mm 8.108
‘saupoow
.uaqi Jo; tuaqt

("spunod 00W 01 dn

‘mo smaﬁ 001

H'sﬁes

90'] “KM“ Kaqi p10 moq .10 133 Kaqi

n

'SAes aqs “‘sﬁurpunouns .noqt

pue aiewqo aqt uo spuadap 11,, 'qiﬁual
ut 1an 31 qaeal sawnowos pue s10)

428nm ueqt JQSUOI M018 sanpoooqg
JaAo sem teqi aiaq auo peq 9AA

qfltam asaqi to awos pue

5
a

t
9861 ‘91 'qea — HTDINOHHD NOLSHOH

Inn to peaisw 310426 5

Sl.

 

 




 

 

 

Hymns Zeiﬂer Clark
Insole! to The Wm

PINOLE — Recently when a man
called the West County Center, Animal
Services Department here, he became
angry when he was asked to come in
personally to report his lost Labrador. ‘

He said he had just been to the shel-
ter before he called. °

’Did you see all three of the Lass?"
asked a volunteer on the tele hone.

“No, only one,” he repli .

Sure enough, when he came back.
his dog was there. It had been out in the
exercise area.

Bays Susanne Paris, coordinator of

‘ volunteers, “What counts is that we got
the dog back home."

The program was begun at: years
ago in Martinez, and three years ago in
Pinole, with Sandy Gauny as its irst
coordinator. Now the Pinole pro am],
has volunteers working four- our
shifts, from 9 to 5. trying to match
reports of lost pets with those brou ht
in by citisens and animal control o fi-
cers. .

Animals are kept for three da

then are either killed painlessly by - .

jection or put up for ado tion. .

‘ Most dogs 7 years an older are not
considered adoptable, which is too bad.
according to Faria. who thinks a dog
about this age would make a wonder-
fully compatible pet tor anyone over
so

Faria won’t allow leiillteers "to
work more than one day a week.

“If they were here when a dog or
cat is brought in, and then happened to
be here when a pet was put to death,
the volunteer would go home upset and
I’d lose a good, dedicated person,” ex-
plains Faria.

But oWner-pet reunions are the
morale boosters. One woman reported
her do missing, an extra-big dog, she

' said. T ree months later, when a huge
unclaimed dog was brought in, it
clicked and there in the file was the
lost report. The owner was elated.

“That’s the greatest thing about
this — you call and tell someOne you
found their dog."

“The volunteers always take time
to go and check for lost pets,” says
Marilyn Adair of Crockett, a long-time
aide at Pinole Pet Hospital, herself an
animal rescuer and cat owner.

OAKLAND TRIBUNE - January 29, 1986

al contro volunteers hel pair owners, pets

 

‘We spend a long time
domestics ting these pets.
They be we no one to depend
on but us.

we. A. ._.-A

- Suzanne Feris

“it’s just a great service to the
cotnmunit ."

Mark aper, in char e at the cen-
ter, agrees, saying the vo unteers save
on clerks’ time and do a wonderful job.

Faria says she has had to push for
policies in the best interests of the ani-

mals. "Hut the idehs aren’t Just off the

top of my head,” she noted. “I’ve been
a dog trainer for to years. At first,
especial! , we had to be aggressive
about ma ng some changes; the em-
ployees were a little apprehensive.

“But those people are just wonders
ful,” she says, before walking rapidlv
through a roomful of dogs, each in a
separate pen except for a mother dog
that is with her puppies.

- There is a smaller roon‘i‘for oats.
. All have clean litter boxes and pads or
. bedding boxes; some of the cages are

marked as “possibly available for

., adoption.”

e coordinator praises her it vol-
untees. telling how they had to raise a
rumpus about animals getting wet dur-
ing the daily booing down. Now, though,
inside areas are sprayed while the ani-
msis are outside. Then they are
brought in, doors closed, and the outer
concrete is washed. ..

Volunteer workers feel' frustrated
sometimes, findin it difficult to ac-
cept euthanasia. ut Faria does not

gree. .

“With loving people there, animals
are simply put to sleep," she says. “I
wish people could watch because it is
so peaceful.”

And she’d rather see dogs killed by
injection than wandering in traffic,
starving, or in a back yard all alone.

“People say, ‘Oh, i have a big back-
yard,'” she says. “But the animal
doesn't use all that space. It hangs out
by the back door haping someone will
come out. You don't need a big yard;

'you lost heed to have the dog with you.”

Cats outside are just as bad, vul-
nerable to cars, toxins and other loose

 

By Ron Riaterer/Tbe Tribune

Volunteer Minette Major gets a nozzle from a Labrador puppie, up for adoption.

_ dogs and cats. says Faria. They can be

perfectly happy in a house all the time.

She admits that a majority of the
animals brought to the center are eu-
thanized.

“We spend a long time domesticat-
ing‘ these pets,” she says sadly. “They
have no one to depend on but us. The
cute, furry kitten becomes a big cat.
Then we treat them as throwaways.”

 




 

 

OAKLAND TRIBUNE - January 29, 1986

 

Suzanne Faria holds ‘George’ on her hand, while ‘Big Bird’ eyes the camera from his perch at left.

 

‘ ‘1 ~ . . 1) ' j r " ' :7 . . ‘
.r~s:::s‘2§; tithes a. . .

Photos by Ron Riesterer, The Tribune

- o

Firm-handed pet owner has growing menagerie

By Nina Zeitler Clark
Special to The Tribune

SAN PABLO —— She is a tender-hearted ani-
mal lover but not one to let creatures, big or
small, get the best of her.

When her male breeding rat, grown huge and
belligerent. tried to bite her hand one day, Suz-
anne Faria picked him up by the tail and fed him
to the boa constrictor.

"I‘d rather buy my snake‘s food,” Faria com-
ments dryly. although she said Bob, her 17-year-
old. enjoyed raising the rats as serpent chow.

The family also has some 20 parrots and a pet
Doberman pinscher.

Faria is a DeAnza High School graduate and
wife of Dick Faria. a construction worker from
an old pioneer Pinole family.

Her Bayview Park living room is filled en-
tirely with cages of more than a dozen screeching
exotic birds. In the family room. curled in a
covered terrarium, is Satan the boa. a 7-foot long
Valentine's Day present from her husband 16
years ago.

Omen, guard dog and good pal. naps on a
brown sofa, his nose nestled in his paws.

The kitchen features more large cages of
birds, wih George, a brilliant blue-and-orange
macaw. like those in Hawaiian travel posters,
squawking “hello."

“I watch everything they do,” says Faria.
“When we got George, the macaw, I sat down and
talked to him for two solid hours. Then I’d pick up
a seed to offer to him. Finally I stroked his fea-
tures through the cage bars and he just melted.”

Now George hates the cage, will go in there
only at bedtime, and demonstrates his unusual
trust by hopping from his perch to Faria’s wait-
ing hands.

The parrots. acquired in stages, began with
just one: ”I took my brother‘s pet bird because he
couldn‘t stand the noise,” says Faria.

They include dwarf macaws, Mexican :2: rls,
gray-tufted cockatiels with orange cheek feath-
ers. Peruvian and African grays and Indian ring-
necks, with one named “Pita," a genteel-sound-
ing moniker that also is an acronym for “pain in

the..."

Faria uses both hands to hold ‘Satan.’

 

“He chews everything and anything, even the
drapes if he can reach them,” she explained.

The birds eat a mixture of soaked sunflower
seeds, fruit and vegetables. A couple of them
have fallen in love and are mates. but Faria says
she will never by able to relinquish any babies.

Satan, the boa, who is fed junior-sized rats to
keep him small, was on sale for $11 at a pet store

going out of business. They sell for $80 or more
now. says Faria.

She lets him exercise in the bathtub. where he
scoots along in a little water, holding his body at
a right angle as he lifts his long tail up in the air.

A dog trainer nearly all her life, Faria cur-
rently is coordinator of volunteers at the Pinole
Animal Services Center, where lost pets are reu-
nited, whenever possible, with their distraught
owners.

She still does some individual protection dog
training and tells of a rape victim who got one of
the dogs and telephoned afterwards, in tearful
happiness, to say that she felt secure enough
again to sleep at night. .

“She even took that dog to work with her,"
says Faria.

Of her son and four grown stepchildren. Faria
says some of her kids are as crazy about animals
as she is. But at least one wants no part of pet
ownership because of “too much responsibility,"
an attitude that is perfectly all right with Faria.
She doesn’t think anyone should have a pet if they
can‘t take good care of it.

The care and feeding of her menagerie takes
up a major part of Faria’s life. The bird cages
must be cleaned daily and all the pets fed each
day. That means the family is unable to ever take
a vacation together.

“You can’t go away and just ask a friend to
come in and do all this,” said Faria. with resigna-
tion. So the Farias have learned to take their
vacations in shifts, with two going off to Tahoe,
then returning, so another two can take a holiday.

Despite her large collection of pets, Faria is
not entirely fearless in the animal world. In par-
ticular, she does not appreciate the sight of Spi-
ders.

“I will leave the room over a spider.’ says
Faria, “which people think is hysterically funny.”

But. in general, she realizes her love of ani-
mals sets her apart from others. “One evening
years ago, when my son dumped 13 baby rats out
on the couch where I was sitting, I thought to
myself, ‘I may be one of the few women who

could let 13 rats run around over

her.”’

She alsoisn’t squeamish about

‘Watching Satan take his weekly
two—rat meal. She has studied
«the snake’s swallowing method,
noticing that every time the ro-

’

, the serpent tight- I

dent exhalég
ens his grip,

“And he alwa
head-f
inward
ri 1h

ys takes the rat
t, so the legs will fold

. and the rat

IFS

In

just slips

9)

l...

 




 

Public favors parks, Wilderness

 

By Michele Perrault

 

REASONABLE people may disagree

over the ideal balance to be
struck between development and pres-
ervation of public lands. Thomas
Sowell’s argument — that we have
gone too far in the direction of preser-
vation -— has been made repeatedly by
the affected commercial interests, the
Reagan administration and others
who share his view.

This is fair debate. But to refer to
the other side as “green bigots” and to
argue that all that is being preserved
is “special privileges for the environ-
mentalists” is cheap. It ignores the fact
that overwhelming majorities of the
public disagree with Mr. Sowell. A re-
cent poll in California, for instance,
posed the question: “Some people be-
lieve that we need to expand park and
wilderness areas in the California des-
ert. Others say we should leave areas
available for mining and off-road vehi-
cle use. What is your view?”

Sixty-eight percent of the total
sample favored “major new park and
wilderness areas in the California des-
ert” where “mining and off-road vehi-
cle use would be banned.” Only 25 per-

cent opposed such new park and wil-
derness areas. Further. these respon-
dents were hardly the “small and
affluent group” Mr. Sowell imagines.
Sixty percent of those with incomes
under $20,000 supported the preserva-
tion side of the debate. Sixty percent of
the minority respondents in the sam-
ple also favored increased preserva-
tion.

In fact, support for desert parks
and wilderness totaled more than 60
percent in every region of the state
and in every income group. Clearly,
there is broad public support for the
work of groups seeking conservation

of our natural resources. That support ‘

does not come without having heard
the voices of oil companies, timber
and mining interests. and manufac-
turers of off-road vehicles in the pub-
lic debate. These commercial interests
have more lobbyists, purchase more
advertising and made more campaign
contributions by far than advocates of
preservation.

Sadly, access to and maintenance
of some wilderness areas under feder-
al management has deteriorated over
the past five years as a result of budget
cuts. The Sierra Club has consistently
favored funding of park programs to
enable the government to properly

maintain tourist facilities and access

roads.

We favor appropriations for the
Youth Conservation Corps and other
similar programs that provide jobs for
low-income youth while providing rel-
atively inexpensive park mainte—
nance. President Reagan opposes this
solution. '

The Sierra Club also favors the ac-
quisition of additional lands for urban
parks and the creation of new parks
for “ordinary city people with limited
vacation time" Again, the administra-
tion is in opposition.

People are aware of the debate,
and they are aware that great wilder-
ness areas have been created — areas
that will continue to be enjoyed by
generations of Americans. The public
simply disagrees with Mr. Sowell
about how much preservation is too
much. His vision of America and the
values he holds are plainly not the val-
ues shared by most people. Americans
in all income brackets, regardless of
their individual heritage, believe that
wilderness is one asset that is a part of
our shared national and spiritual heri-
tage. They want public land and re-
sources preserved to the extent feasi-
ble, instead of being sold off to the
highest bidder, enriching only those
who seek to make a quick profit.

Scrlpp: Howard News Service

 

a/Aﬂi’é

SI‘LUUIS POST-DISPATCH

James Watt’s Enduring Legacy

gress approved the Strip Mining Control Act, which estab-

By Edward Flam.“ lished the OSM as a strong federal regulatory presence. Watt

Interior Secretary James Watt usually failed in his

efforts to diminish federal conservation programs. But
in the case of the Office of Surface Mining, he succeeded
famously.

Watt was obsessed with the conviction that the regulation of
strip mining was the province of the states rather than the
federal government, and he pursued his dogmatic belief re-
lentlessly. More than half of OSM’s personnel, including many
of its most competent, resigned or were dismissed from their
jobs during the days when Watt effectively emasculated the
agency through budget cuts, office closings and watered-down
revisions of field regulations.

The frightful results of Watts’ Office of Surface Mining
purge unfortunately persist to this day. An investigation by the
National Wildlife Federation of the OSM’s recent enforcement
(or should I say unenforcement?) record disclosed among
other things that at least 6,000 sites have been mined in a
manner that blatantly violates the law. Other revelations:
Federal oversight authority has not been exercised in some
states where abuses clearly justified intervention; more than
$200 million in fines have failed to be collected, with the sum
growing daily; and over half of the 4,000 operations ordered to
cease illegal mining kept on without being penalized.

Most painful is the bottom line of this neglect. Many streams
have been polluted and others continue to be. Hillsides eroded
by strip mining have been abandoned without the requiSite
reclamation and are increasing in numbers.

Because of tactical blunders and lack of subtlety, former

Secretary Watt made certain that the upper echelons of the .

OSM bureaucracy were peppered with officials who shared
his contempt for the agency’s statutory mission. In 1977, Con-

and the holdovers from his regime, however, believe that
Washington’s role should be virtually nonexistent. .

One of the major reasons the OSM has remained bogged
down in a bureaucratic quagmire is that most of Watt’s ideo—
logical henchmen are still on the job, despite agency critics’
appeals that they be replaced. Accordingly, it’s no small won-
der that the agency’s current draft management reform pro-
posal is a meek and often misguided attempt to cure glaring
regulatory deficiencies. _

OSM critics point out that the so-called reforms still keep
trying to pass the regulatory buck to the states even in Situa-
tions where the evidence indicates the responSibility cannot
yet be handled. Some of OSM’s suggestions to strengthen
enforcement are laughable. One proposal, for example, would
have the agency reduce all outstanding fines to. minimal,
inconsequential amounts. That would undoubtedly improve a
dismal OSM collection performance, but it would hardly serve
as a deterrent a ainst future violations.

With strip migiing abuses still so, widespread and the OSM
exhibiting little inclination to bite the bullet, what lies ahead?

A sluggish OSM is already being largely run by default
through congressional mandate and judges’ edicts. If the Rea-
gan administration doesn’t clean house at OSM, prowde it With
more funds and do a better job of asserting the agencys
presence when warranted, we shall surely see Congress and
the courts intervene to even a greater degree. OSM could. end
up being totally force-fed until it acquires the leadership to
function on its own.

William Flattau is a Washington-based columnist who writes
about environmental matters.

 




 

 

 

MEMPHIS COMMERCIAL-APPEAL - Feb. 14, 1986

 

 

 

How much is too much regarding
wilderness preservation?

Economist Thomas Sowell, a senior
fellow at the Hoover Institution on
War, Revolution and Peace in Stan-

 

ford, Calif., says the wilderness re-
creation lobbyists have gone too far,
and are trying to preserve wilderness
areas for themselves and no one else.

Michele Perrault, president of the

Sierra Club, a San Francisco-based
national environmental organization
of 370,000 members, says a broad
base of public support exists for pres-
ervation efforts.

 

 

‘Grecn bigots’ are taking Charge

 

By' Thomas Sowell

 

0

THE wilderness recreation lobby is

called many things, but the best
name I have heard for them is “the
green bigots.” Bigots think that their
way is the only way, and that other
people don’t count. This has long been
the attitude of those who call them-
selves “environmentalists.”

The green bigots try to give the
impression that they are trying to save
the last few remaining patches of wil-
derness before it disappears under as-
phalt and concrete. In reality, the land
owned by the National Park Service
alone is larger than Great Britain. The
land owned by the US. Forest Service
is larger than France. In addition, the
Fish and Wildlife Service owns land

 

M.-
.1.
/ 1" a.
, ‘ - . .
/W’ /;lla;1‘;

($3235:

. . . . a
‘ ".’ ." "v”;?'¢.“

 

a V 1'

that is larger than Holland, Israel, Bel-
gium and Switzerland — combined.
Moreover, the federal government has
been buying up more land.

Many people are unaware of how
vast an area has been set aside, at pub-
lic expense, for outdoor recreational
purposes. Nor are they aware of how
relentlessly the wilderness recreation
lobby has used its political clout to
make it harder for millions of ordi-
nary citizens to have access to this
enormous expanse of land that is sup-
posedly being “preserved” for “the
people.”

Tourist facilities are being torn
down. Access by automobile and bus is
being blocked. Powered tourist boats
and rafts are scheduled to be banned
from the Colorado River through the
Grand Canyon. The point is to give
preferential access to those with the

 

, a
g t
”.54..”
.e

l" \u- ".3;
\\\‘ V , .

'\\\\‘\3\\\\ a;

 

 

 

 

lifestyle of the environmentalists and
keep out ordinary city people with li-
mited vacation time and kids who can-
not be turned loose in the wild. All
their talk about “the people” is politi-
cal rhetoric. If you can’t afford to have
your family learn mountaineering,
horseback riding, skiing, camping, or
the mysteries of whitewater canoeing,
you are going to have less and less ac-
cess to more and more public land.

The perpetuation of such special
privileges for the environmentalists
into the indefinite future is referred
to politically as concern for “poster-
ity.” That is, the posterity of the envi-
ronmentalists is to continue to enjoy
the same advantages over the poster-
ity of the rest of the society -— which is
to continue to pay, and continue to
find obstacles in their way when they
want to see what they have paid for.

What society pays for the recrea-
tional privileges that a small and afflu-
ent group of Sierra Clubbers and other
environmental extremists want limit-
ed to themselves is not simply the
money to maintain and acquire public
land. Nation-sized expanses of land
contain vast amounts of resources that
could mean many jobs, a lot of housing
and an improved standard of living for
many Americans. The issue is not
whether there should be any recrea-
tional wilderness, but whether there
should be some sense of balance
between the wilderness recreation
lobby — the green bigots —— and the
large majority of Americans.

Like the special-interest groups,
the wilderness recreationists try to re-
present their own particular benefits
as national benefits — and to ignore
the costs to others.

What environmentalism illus-
trates, to a frightening extent, is how
vulnerable this democracy has be-
come to the rhetoric of small groups
made shrill by self-righteousness.
Their political success reveals how
unthinkingly we have become condi-
tioned to respond on cue to certain pi-
ous words, much like the conditioned
reflexes of Pavlov’s dog.

Scripps Howard News Service

 




versy, but most people agree they are susceptible
to feline distemperalso, so most vets recommend
that ferrets be vaccinated for that as well,” said
Dr. Ben G. Wright, a Memphis veterinarian.

“Females a lot of times may die if they are not
bred or spayed,” he added. “Because of their
breeding cycle, female ferrets producea a high
level of estrogen that limits the production of red
blood cells, and they can die of an anemia.” .

One reason for the ferret’s popularity as pets is
their nocturnal behavior. They sleep much of. the
day and when the family comes home at night
from work and school, the ferrets are ready to
play.

Ferrets sold in pet shops are. European ferrets,

said Larry Pickens, curator of Lichterman Nature
Center. “People buy them and find out they do
have a musky smell, because they’re one of the
mustelids, like skunks. In England, they call them
polecats. It’s not as pungent an odor, but it’s a pret-
ty strong odor and it’s on their fur.

“Pet stores will say you can have them descent-
ed, but each hair follicle has an oil gland. In Eng-
land, they used to use the oil from ferrets in expen-
sive perfume because it stays on so long.”

But the people who own and love ferrets say the
smell is really no worse than that of a cat or dog
that’s kept in the house.

“It’s not like a skunk,” Miss Sullivan said. “They
don’t put it out for protection like a skunk. I’ve

lived with dogs and cats all my life. People come in
my house and think it smells bad anyway. It smells
like animals. I just don’t pay any attention to it.”

Lichterman has a ferret of its own, a European
sable that a family trapped in its attic and brought
to the center. The staff uses the ferret to catch
mice. “People get tired of having them as pets, so
they just release them,” Pickens said. “They sur-
vive pretty well in the wild.”

Miss Sullivan has another view. Ferrets do like
to creep through small places, she says, adding,
this makes it hard to keep them inside. They slip
through the smallest openings, including dryer
vents, cracked windows. “if anybody loses one, ,
he’s usually tearing up the town trying to find it.” i

 

 

 

 

 

____————

USA TODAY - Feb. 20, 1986

 

 

AKC Bull Mastiff P s. excel guard
dogs. Reds, fawns brindles, $850
each. Brennan's Bull Mastiff Kennel,
6&~~""535 New Hampshire

 

Chinese Shar-Pei Puppies. Males &
females. Ready for delivery.
Shippin available.
904-3 $172.5...”—

A

 

Cougars (Mountain Lions), Bobcats,

Geo ery & Servals Kittens, also other

exotics. Ready for delivery.
904-374-0726

 

 

ATLANTA JOURNAL - Feb. 21, 1986

Research is sought
to keep right whale
from becoming extinct

 

By Jingle Davis

Special to The Journal

JEKYLL ISLAND, Ga. — Scien-
tists and others attending a right
whale workshOp here this week
agreed that more research needs to

 

- be done on the rare mammals to

help bring them back from the
brink of extinction. '-

A pepulation of only 200 to 400
right whales exists on the Eastern
Seaboard, spending summers off
New England and Nova Scotia and
migrating elsewhere during winter
months.

Although studies over the past
three years indicate the waters off
Georgia and Florida are a major
winter calving ground, scientists do
not know where the male right
whales and non-pregnant females
spend their winters.

“We’re in the period of discov-
ery,” said Dr. Howard E. Winn, a
professor of oceanography at the
University of Rhode Island’s gradu-

ate school. “We could be in for

some real surprises.”

Winn, a right whale expert and
one of the workshOp’s keynote
speakers, said a large population of
right whales regularly visits a chan-
nel that makes up the major ship~
ping route between New York and
Boston. -

“The area is covered with ships

. and planes and fishermen, yet no-

body even knew the whales were
there until 1979, and they’ve been
there every year since,” Winn said.

According to Winn, funds for
right whales were included in the
federal budget for the first time

ever this year, with $500,000 going
to the National Marine Fisheries
Service for additional right whale
research.

Winn said he believes the money
should be spent on such things as
additional aerial surveys of waters
off the Southeastern coast during
the entire winter season.

This year and for two previous
years, off-duty Delta Air Lines pi-
lots from Atlanta have donated
about 10 days each winter to fly up
and down the coast with researchers
from the New England Aquarium in
Boston who are studying right
whales.

Scott Kraus, director of the
Aquarium’s right whale project, said
about 20 right whales, including
seven cow-calf pairs, have been
spotted so far this winter in waters
from Savannah south to Cape Ca-
naveral, Fla.

One sighting was reported to the
scientists by a Navy ship captain
who was searching for debris from
the space shuttle Challenger, which
exploded during launch on Jan. 28,
killing all seven peOple on board.

In addition 'to urging more re-
search, participants at the work-
shop, which was sponsored by the
Georgia Conservancy, the Marine
Mammal Commission and the Geor-
gia Department of Natural Re-
sources, agreed that more work
needs to be done to educate the
public about right whales, to identi-
fy important habitats, to study pos-
sible conflicts with commercial fish-
eries and offshore minerals
exploration, and to improve the
whale sightings network.

 

 

 




 

 

MEMPHIS COMMERCIAL APPEAL - February 19, 1986

Owners discover
the musky pets
sneak out a lot

 

By Anna Byrd Davis
Statf Reporter

 

Ferrets, small weasels that have long worked to
catch mice, rats and rabbits in Europe, are living

it up in America as household pets. Their new-.
found popularity comes in spite of several draw- -

backs, the main one being a strong, musky odor

I that brought them the nickname ”polecats.”

‘fThey are more fun than any cat anybody ever
raised,” said Jean Peters, whose 16-year-old daugh-
ter Lynn owns a young ferret named Nicki. This is

”Lynn’s second ferret, replacing one that slipped
out through an open window and was killed by a
dog in the neighborhood.

This ferret loves to play, Mrs. Peters said. She
also enjoys stealing things like car keys and
glasses cases and hiding them under the couch.
And she demands lots of attention.

."Nlckl will crawl under the cover at night and
bite, you on the ankles,” Mrs. Peters said. “If you
don t pay attention to her, she’ll bark. It sounds
like a little teeny puppy barking.”

 

     
  

 

A“.-.

Ferrets are ‘in'

“They are charming little creatures,” said Jean
Sullivan, director of the Memphis Humane So-
ciety. “They’re intelligent and get around like a

- cat. I used to have a pair and it was so much fun to
watch them go up and down stairs.” ‘

While ferrets aren’t replacing dogs and cats in

' - pet stores, sales have increased drmatically since
~ I 1980.‘Sa1es now exceed 10,000 annually, according
. i, to the American Veterinary Medical Assoc1ation.

I Ferrets, which weigh between three and five
pounds and live between 8 and 10 years, cost
between $70 and $130 in pet stores. Like cats, they
. can be trained to use a paper or litter box. They eat
dried cat food. .. .

They should be vaccinated for canine distem-

, ' per, which can be fatal. “There is a little contro-

 

m‘v‘za-tm .._

 




Project
Coordinator

Peter Jenkins

Research
Coordinator

Jack Laufer

 

WASHINGTON
WOLF PROJECT

226 Summit Avenue East
Seattle, Washington 98102
Telephone: (206) 322-5882

A Committee of Wolf Haven, Inc., a non-proﬁt wolf
preserve and research center in Tenino, Washington

 

RE-ESTABLISHING WOLVES IN THE
NORTH CASCADES NATIONAL PARK AND THE OLYMPIC NATIONAL PARK:

A LONG—TERM PROJECT OF WOLF HAVEN, INC.

Wolf Haven is a non—profit wolf preserve and research center in
Tenino, Washington, formed in 1982. One of Wolf Haven's missions is
promoting re—establishment of the wild gray wolf (Canis lupus) in
appropriate parts of its natural range. In 1985, a committee of Wolf
Haven formed the Washington Wolf Project to study and promote re-
establishment in the North Cascades and Olympics National Parks. In
the North Cascades this re—establishment may take place by natural
immigration of wolves from British Columbia, or by reintroduction; in
the isolated Olympics reintroduction is the only way to bring wolves
back.

This is not a project to release any of Wolf Haven's captive
wolves. Rather, our role is to do research and public education on
the feasibility and desirability of re—establishing wild wolves, then
to petition the United States Department of Interior and other
appropriate federal and state agencies to initiate a wolf recovery
plan in Washington consistent with their obligations under the
Endangered Species Act.

The re-establishment of wild wolves in the North Cascades and
Olympics will be an exciting and challenging ecological event. It
will demonstrate the level of commitment that the human species has
toward harmonious sharing of the planet with other members of the
natural world.

We will be attempting to partially undo a sad episode of modern
history, which saw humans brutally wipe out wolves from virtually
their entire natural range in the last hundred years. The gray wolf
is now extinct or endangered throughout the lower 48 states, except
in Minnesota where it is still threatened. Small, unstable
populations also exist in Wisconsin, Michigan and, perhaps, Montana
and Idaho. In Washington, officially sanctioned systematic
extermination took place in the early part of this century, although
sightings of lone wolves are still occasionally reported along the
British Columbia border. The outlook for the wolf has improved since
the passage of the Endangered Species Act and efforts are being made
in the Great Lakes and northern Rocky Mountain regions to promote re-
establishment. The Washington Wolf Project members believe evidence
and reason indicate that the Pacific Northwest is another region
where citizen and governmental efforts should be focused on the
wolf's behalf.

 

 




WASHINGTON WOLF PROJECT

 

Strong practical reasons support re—establishment. There is a
need for reinstating natural population controls for deer, elk and
mountain goat. Re—establishing wolves in Washington will help
preserve disappearing West Coast subspecies that are being hunted in
British Columbia and Alaska. Another supporting factor is that the
North Cascades and Olympics are primarily used by sightseers, hikers,
and climbers who may view the wolf as an enhancement of the parks.
Thus, the wolf may attract more visitors, helping the depressed
economies of the surrounding areas.

Bringing back the wolf is sure to be controversial. But, a
calm look at the facts by an informed population should override the
superstitious fear of wolves promoted by fairy tales and other
fiction. First, a population of wolves will gg£_be a significant
threat to human safety. There are gg_documented instances of a wild
wolf attacking a human in North America in this century. Indeed,
wild wolves are known to avoid humans. Second, any threat the wolf
might pose to livestock in the scattered agricultural areas around
the parks can be softened by insuring that any losses are compensated
and that offending wolves are removed. A system of compensation for
livestock damage has worked well in Minnesota, where only a tiny
fraction of farms in the wolf range have suffered any livestock
losses. It is a hopeful sign that new non—lethal methods of predator
control are being researched and deve10ped around the country.

The specific reasons for choosing the North Cascades and
Olympics as re—establishment locations are;

1. Both national parks are historical wolf range;

2. They are ecologically similar to the range occupied by
wolves in British Columbia and southeast Alaska, therefore, well
adapted wolves for transplant should be available (although
transplant is not the only reintroduction method being considered);

3. They are natural preserves where re—established wolves will
enjoy protected status under the Endangered Species Act;

4. They contain some of the largest roadless wilderness
expanses in the lower 48 states;

5. They contain numerous prey species sufficient to support a
viable wolf population, including deer, elk, mountain goat, and
beaver;

6. They are almost completely surrounded by National Forests.

7. They are not near large populations of livestock.

 




WASHINGTON WOLF PROJECT

 

We are not the first group to propose these locations for wolf
re—establishment. A 1975 study done at Evergreen State College in
Olympia, Washington, concluded that a population of 50 or more wolves
was ecologically feasible in the Olympic National Park. The Park was
also nominated in 1981 by a special advisory committee to the
National Park Service as one of the two best reintroduction locations
for wolves in the entire national park syStem. The other site was
Yellowstone National Park, where a reintroduction project should soon
begin under the recovery plan for the Northern Rocky Mountain Wolf.
Re—establishment of wolves in Washington will take many years and, in
addition to determined private efforts, the commitment of substantial
state and federal support. The goal of the Washington Wolf Project
is to persuade the Department of Interior and other agencies to a
create and implement a good—faith, comprehensive recovery plan. We
will also monitor protection of the wild wolves that are occasionally
reported in Washington.

The Washington Wolf Project needs the help of everyone
concerned about the wolf's future in this country to develop the
momentum necessary for success. We have an entirely volunteer staff,
a volunteer Advisory Board, and are in the process of ongoing public
education. Your help is needed and encouraged on the project, as
well as monetary donations to cover the expense of bringing in U.S.
and Canadian wolf experts for public education presentations, as well
as mailing, long distance and other costs. If you or your
organization can contribute any amount, please make the (tax—
deductible) donation to "WOlf Haven" earmarked for the "Washington
Wolf Project". Please send comments, questions, useful information,
and donations to:

Washington Wolf Project
226 Summit Avenue East
Seattle, Washington 98102

With your help, we can see the wild wolf safely re—established
in washington before the year 2000. Without your help, the wolf may
live here only in spirit.

P.S. Please pass this information on to another interested friend or
organization.

 




Cmcago Tribune, Sunday, February 9 1986

Section 13

Page 24

Arts

. ...._..... w... __.z_. _ .

 

 

DETROIT FHEl: PHtSS/SUNUAY, red. 9, won cu

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A dog’s life can be pretty glamorot... I

HOLLYWOOD — Meet Mike, the
hottest dog in Hollywood.

Mike, 8, is the black and white
Scottish border collie who stars (along
with Richard Dreyfuss and Bette.
Midler) in Disney’s new comedy;
“Down and Out in Beverly Hills,”.
which has quickly soared to top box-
office rank since it opened Jan. 31 —'
and has launched a new dog star.

Mike portrays Matisse, the pam-
pered family pet of the Whiteman
family of Beverly Hills. (From the look
of things on a sunny Sunday, Beverly
Hills may be the poodle capital of the
Western world.) '

In the film, Matisse, who won’t cat
dog food, is under the care of an animal
psychiatrist who helps the small, ‘
angst-ridden collie work out his emo-
tional problems.

i
l

 

said Rowe.

dog,”
“That really hurt. But .I guess

Mike, a hot property from “Bev-
that’s the business.”

erly Hills.”

 

get any

 

Diane
llaithman

Hollywood

 

 

 

 

SINCE WINNING the role, Mike
has been flooded with offers, according
to his trainer, Clint Rowe, 34, of Acton,
Calif. Career options began rolling in
before the film was released, and “It’s
gone crazy this week," RoWe said.

Warner Bros. wants to star Mike in.
a series of music videos for children;
spin-off products would include a Mike
the Dog book and a Mike the Dog doll.
Rowe was not willing to divulge
Mike’s income from “Down And Out,”

 

 

“Beverly Hills”

A star is born

has just
in

lays a mixed—up

hound named _Matisse in

“Beverly Hills,”
,” a series of 30-

’11 have a regular role

Mike’s career took off even
before “Beverly Hills” was in

Mike, who p
distribution. After an advance _

screening of the film
which Mike leaps off a diving

The frisky black-and-white
board,

dog who steals the show in
signed for his first post-movie

job. He

minute home musical videos
that will be out in April for

hotter properties in Hol-
less than $20 each.

Hills” has become one of the
lywood.

“Down and Out in Beverly

in “Kidsongs

dos and
immediate-
d

hard Drey-

“the audience
Bette Midler and Nick

000 for an 18-month
Rowe asked for
to which Disney

rolls his eyes and

, animal trainer Clint

‘sed stars Ric

prai
fuss,
many of the biggest laughs

“ went to a lovable and neurotic
black-and—white Scottish Bor—

walks on hot coals—one writer
der Collie.”

reported that
Nolte—but the big ku

offered Mike [through his

Executives at Disney, which

roduced the film

P
1y
“said they could go out an

Rowe] $3,
more money,

manager
contract.

but said Mike will be able to demand
much more for his next performance.
Although the spotlight is on Mike,
his double, Davey, 6, also deserves
some credit. Davey did most of the
action scenes involving chasing, run-
ning and jumping. “You don’t want to
use your main dog if there’s a lot of
running,” Rowe explained. “Mike does
more of the inter-relationship stuff.”
Why has the public warmed up to
Mike? “I think it’s the life you see in
him,” Rowe mused. “I think you can
see his personality. He’s warm and
sensitive — for me, it’s like you can see

 

rinside him. You see this little dog, and i

you see he’s full of life.”

Mike’s fame may cause some sibling ‘

rivalry. Rowe’s other performing dog,

'Jed, who starred in “The Journey of
Natty Gann,” did not achieve stardom
after that performance -— although Jed
has signed for one other Disney project.
Jed was asked to appear on Johnny
Carson’s show — but, unlike Mike, he
has difficulty relating to people, so
Rowe turned down the offer. “He’s a
little shy - he’s part wolf,” Rowe said
apologetically.

l
l

 




ATLANTA JOURNAL - Feb. 19, 1986

Gwinnett bans use
of suffocation method
to kill stray animals

. By Michael Moss
Staff Writer

 

 

 

’9‘” ;iii. ‘}  :3

Watcbmg them a”

Chr‘r

 

m

3..

 

fééd

The‘Gwinnett County Commission voted Tuesday to
stop the practice of killing stray dogs and cats in a de-
compression chamber at the county animal control cen-
ter and passed a modified emergency ordinance to pro-
tect trees in the county.

The board also agreed to stOp shipping dogs to the
University of Georgia for use in research experiments.

The new animal control rules were part of a plan
by the Gwinnett County Humane Society to take a
stronger role in the administration of the county animal
control center. More than 80 percent of the estimated
5,000 strays impounded annually in Gwinnett are killed
in a decompression chamber, which suffocates the ani-
mals by raising the air pressure.

About 10 percent of the dogs are sent for use in ex-
periments, while another 10 percent are adopted, offi-
cials estimated.

Humane Society members contend that the use of
the decompression'chamber is inhumane and that it is
the only one being used within 200 miles, said George
Putz, a spokesman for the society. He said the Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals recommends
the use of lethal drugs to kill the animals.

The changes in animal control policy drew little no-
tice compared to the uproar over a move by county
planners to protect trees.

. A pr0posal to regulate the clear cutting of trees un.
til permanent rules are designed was weakened after a
succession of deveIOpers charged that the county was
trying to protect “second growth scrub” at private land-
owners’ expense. ,

The tree protection ordinance, which county staff ,
said was necessary to prevent widespread logging while
permanent rules are designed, originally would have re-
.quired developers to get permission to cut trees as
small as 1.5 inches wide at breast height.

The ordinance passed, however, was modified to

, protect trees with an 8-inch minimum diameter in an

. amendment offered by Commissioner Mike Berg. Berg’s

amendment also limited the rule to commercial and in-
dustrial land, excluding residential.

h 1, 1936

6

.An amdyearmundﬁsherman 7:
sometimes combines fishing n ' ?

same pair? thatretum : earth "Senna. {f}
swan feeding

21 just love
around ”633‘“

ref). 23-Mar

 

 

 

"income” sash: autumn. aﬁerhmest

iii-'KIWStti-‘Fmaﬁ::‘gleanS fromanearby

1;?th

andthelr

ﬁth‘ his. 8"}:3ﬂd,

est-[that he shares-m

d by..;Western ii?

_. __ . ‘ ‘ieLittle Asylum
Lak e: iwhictt sis} was

ame a:
son, Micky, Mimics

”luseenough ta wetland,

V Hearmld‘eeons. Nearly tame
{QSWanss-wim-e

him getfhroughthe tougheswmmes

than concentratingonlumseifandhi .
wéfkselﬂed uroblémsia that helped.

nature of the graceful

offspring later ,. ‘

1

£35 ,
723 f.
09 :
m

:5 j . _
.327?
“a
its :3 3.1
«ad-3

3...

{Q} g.
.2. -
F3
:3;
(’6
"I"
J: ,
0 _. "

take foodfmm thelrhands *

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH
Jan. 29, 1986

Pet Overpopulation _

All too often Humane Societies every-
where face the unpleasant task of dealing
with violent and overt abuse, neglect and
mistreatment of animals. These are the
clear-cut and unquestionable acts of cruelty

that must be dealt with in a direct and imme-
diate manner.

However, there are other situations that ,

create great problems for humane organiza4
tions. They are also the most difficult to deal
with by reason of their nature and origin.

These are the tragedies resulting from good .

intentions. This reference is to situationsre-
sulting from the misplaced affection we see
in people who try to own more animals than
they can ever hope to properly care for.
These are seldom vicious or cruel-minded
people, but simply and sadly ones who can-
not face the reality of their circumstances.
The resulting problems for the animals are
serious, often manifesting themselves in con-
ditions that are overcrowded,‘ unsafe and
unheahhy. ' .

This problem stems from one source: pet
overpopulation. Millions of animals are left
to reproduce each year, and responsrble
homes are difficult to find. Spaying and neu-
tering dogs and cats is the only solution.
Those who criticize the work of the humane
societies are often the very peoplewho allow
their pets to breed indiscriminately. Those
who are unwilling to be responsible pet own-
ers should not point an accusing finger at
those who must deal with the results of their
neglect and ignorance.

If animals are to live in the environment
we have .created for them, we must also

recognize our responSibilities for their care.

Failure to accept such individual responsibil-
ity could well cause an era of animal abuse
that is frightening to contemplate.
Suzanne K. Gassner
Director of Education
Humane Society. of Missouri

St. Louis

 

ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH
Jan. 30, 1986

Horse Racing And Drugs

I would like to comment on your Jan. 18
article regarding the Fairmount Park Race
Track inquiry concerning the July 1984 acci-
dent that ended the career of jockey Patti
Barton. Recently, Bob Baker, field represen-
tative from the Humane Society of the Unit-
ed States, gave a workshop in St. Louis on the
misuse of drugs in horse racing. Mr. Baker is
a former owner of race horses himself and

- has written a book about drugs used in rac»
ing. The most common is phenylbutazone, or
“bute” for short. It is an anti-inflammatory
analgesic that masks pain, permitting un-
sound horses to he raced.

On» May 3, 1978, at Pimlico, a 5-year-old
mare, Easy Edith, was on the track. She had
arthritic knees and chronic soreness in her
legs. Her knees were treated with corticoste-
roids and she had a shot of bute just before
the race to numb the pain. As she was round-
ing the final turn of the course, her left fore
cannon bone shattered. Three horses went
down with her. Jockey Robert Pineda was
killed and two other jockeys were injured.

When bute was legalized in Pennsylvania,
breakdowns increased by 40 percent at Key-
stone Racetrack. In 1976, there was a break-
down every three days. When a temporary
ban was put on bute, only three horses broke
down in the next 54 days of racing. A report
by the Illinois State Veterinarian revealed
that 98 percent of the horses destroyed on
Chicago tracks between March and Decem-
ber 1976 were racing with bute.

Shirley Seiler

Director

Animal Protective Association
of Missouri

Brentwood

ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH
Feb. 1, 1986

Ban Steel Traps

Re the article in the Jan. 22 Post-Dispatch
banning steel-jaw trapping, Shirley Seller, di-
rector of the Animal Protective Association
of Missouri, made a telling case to the Senate
Agriculture Committee on the dangers of
steel traps. I am a hunter and I, too, would
support the bill by Sen. Thomas W. McCarthy
to ban their use.

In this day of constantly expanding urban

development, birds and small animals face a

serious enough threat. Compounding it by
the use of steel-jawed traps is deadly and
inhumane. Even worse, these traps are not
selective. They trap fine working and hunt-
ing dogs and pets, as well as so-called legal
animals, of which two out of every three are
discarded as “trash animals.” They cause
terrible suffering, as the trapped animals in-
variably try to free themselves by chewing
through the trapped limb.

Because trapping is not selective and holds
the promise of hours, even days of terrible
suffering, it is not and cannot be considered

,a sport. Steel-jaw trapping had its day and is

no longer justifiable.

William H. Krieger
Lemay ‘

 

 




SAN FRANCISCO CHRONICLE - Feb. 4, 1986

 

Breeder s
‘ Basic Good +

'. erret breeder Charles Mor-
ton is as horrified as every-
one else by the attacks on
' babies. But, as he says, “Peo-
ple should be careful with animals.
Infants and pets don’t mix.”

 

Then again, you don’t expect
the nation’s biggest ferret breeder
to be objective on the subject, and
Morton isn’t. He couldn’t be higher
on this cousin to the weasel.

“They combine the best charac-
teristics of cats and dogs,” he says
enthusiastically. “They use litter
boxes but don’t scratch the furni-
ture and drapes like cats. They will
lay on your lap and play with you
much more than cats. And they
don’t have to be walked like dogs.”

PeOple have a lot of misconcep
tions about ferrets, says Morton, 43.
“The first is that they are wild ani-
mals. They’re not. They are domesti-
cated. Don’t take my word. Ask the
American Society of Mammologists.
They were domesticated about 3000
B.C. by the Egyptians.”

The Egyptians, who tamed
Mustela putorius furothe to help
keep down the rodent population,
depicted ferrets performing this

 

 

useful service in paintings on the.
pyramids of the pharaohs.

“They came to Europe proba-
bly between 1100 and 1300, brought
there by the Crusaders,” said Mor-
ton. “They are credited to a large
extent with alleviating the bubonic
plague by killing the rats that had
the fleas that carried the disease.

We’re talking basic good guys.

here.”

Ferrets are 14 inches long, not
counting a five-inch tail, and weigh
between one and. five pounds. Do-
mesticated ferrets were first
brought to North America about
1690 by European settlers who used
them at home to hunt vermin. (A
wild native species, the black-footed

ferret, was never domesticated and ,

today teeters on the brink of extinc-
tion.) ~ '

“Through the late 18003, some-
one called the ferret meister would
go from farm to farm with his fer-
rets and rat terriers. The ferrets
would frighten the rodents out of
their holes and the dogs would kill

them. It wasn’t uncommon for 300

to 500 rats to be flushed and killed
from a barn or a granary.”

 

 

 

 

:- ._->-.7,;>:; .23.: ;-;l"‘-

The endangered native
black-footed ferret cannot be,
kept as a pet in any state

The introduction of poisons
and traps to control rodent popula-
tions saw a‘ decline of interest in
ferrets, although hunters still used
them to flush rabbits from holes.

Morton traces the revival of in-
terest in them as pets to a movie
that appeared a few years ago
called “Beast Master.” The fantasy
had a hero who carried two ferrets
in a pouch at his waist. In one scene,

'a ferret sacrifices its life to save the

hero. “Attained almost a cult follow-
ing,” Morton said of the film.

Ferrets have to be neutered.
and their powerful scent glands re-

moved to make good pets. If fe-
males aren’t bred after they go into
heat, they remain in a state of estrus
and die within a year of anemia. If
not castrated, males develop an oily
coat and need almost daily bathing.

Morton said 46 out of the 50
states do not regulate the owner-
ship of ferrets. California, which
does, has what he calls “a tremeno
dous sub rosa population.” Nobody
knows for sure, but some estimates
of this go as high as 50,000.

“There is something called the
Southwest Ferret Association in
Phoenix, which publishes a newslet-
ter. They estimate 90 percent of
their membership is in California,”
Morton says.

He and his fellow breeders
have overturned bans against the
animals in Pennsylvania, Maine,
Alaska and West Virginia and are
confident they will do the same in
California. '

The state Department of Fish
and Game’s fears that ferrets will
escape and damage native wildlife
are wrong, Morton says. “They can’t
live in the wild longer than 10 to 14
days”

The state’s Fish and Game Com-
mission will consider a request to
dr0p the prohibition against import-
ing ferrets in April. If it refuses,
Morton expects a lawsuit to be filed.

“We’ve never lost in court yet,”

he says confidently.

JERRY CA RROH




an,» Atlanta auumal Ayn cossnrtrnow

SUNDAY, FEBRUARY lg 1986 m,

:Mining firm to delay work because of

 

g: Jingle Davis

i cial to The Journal~Consiitution

pg ‘2.

if; BRUNSWICK, Ga. - A Florida subsid-
iary of an Australian mining company that
plans to look for valuable minerals on the
sgea bottom off coastal Georgia has been
asked to delay its work to avoid conflict
'yith endangered right whales.

4. Scientists believe that right whales
f{pend the summers off Maine and Nova
'Scotia and migrate to the shallow near-
ghore waters off Georgia and north Florida
gluing winter months to bear their young.
2:; The whales, considered the rarest of all
Rife world’s large whale species, have been
gighted six to 10 miles off the Georgia

coast, the same area that Associated Miner-
als (U.S.A.) Inc. of Green Cove Springs,
Fla, plans to begin exploring on April 1.
Associated Minerals, whose offshore
work will take about two weeks. initially
requested permission to begin exploration in
December. ‘

But Paul Raymond, a fisheries biologist
with the National Marine Fisheries Service
in St. Petersburg, Fla, said his agency sug-
gested the federal government restrict off-
shore exploration to non-winter months.

“It really sounds like a passive explora-
tion, but since we think that’s a calving and
breeding ground for right whales, we rec-
ommended they not be in that area at the

same time, just to be on the safe side,"
Raymond said. ‘

This weekend. off-duty Delta Air Lines
pilots and scientists with the New England
Aquarium in Boston were to arrive on the
coast for another 10-day aerial search for
the right whales.

An advance team stationed on St. Si-
mons Island since mid-January has already
confirmed sightings of at least seven right
whales between Savannah and Ormond
Beach, Fla. including a mother whale with
newborn calf.

Mark Whitney, manager of the mineral
company’s exploration division, said prelim-
inary sampling off the Atlantic Coast

whales breedingoff Ga. coast

last summer by the US. Geological Survey
indicated large concentrations of ilmenite,
rutile and other heavy minerals in the un-
dersea sediments of coastal Georgia. '

Titanium, considered a strategic miner-
al because of its uses in the aircraft and
space industries, is refined from ilmenite
and rutile.

“What we‘re obviously heping to find
are heavy minerals with a good enough
grade that we could mine them,” Whitney
said. '

In December, the Company. a subsidiary
of Renison Goldfields Consolidated of Aus-
tralia, received permits from the US. Mirr

erals Management Service to explore a 95.4”;
squareomile area starting at Georgia's
three—mile limit and extending 10 miles off--
shore. The permit area stretches from south“
of Jekyll Island to north of Tybee Island.

The permits allow the company to take
up to 120 sediment samples. Each sample
would temporarily disturb about 1 square
foot of sea bottom. Whitney said. “

Even if the company’s exploration ef—
forts are successful, Barry Clark, chief of
the Environmental Assessment Section of
the Minerals Management Service in Vien-
na. Va.. said it will be years “if ever" be-
fore any offshore non—petroleum mining ac-
tivities are conducted in Georgia waters. "

 

 




 

 

CLEVELAND PLAIN DEALER - 2/3/86

Cowboys .
get blues ‘
Buckeye law '
curtails rodeo

By GREGORY S. SIMMS
STAFF WRITER

A songwriter made a handsome bundle by
advising, “Mamas, don’t let your babies
grew up to be cowboys.” Who wants to raise
. , a fellow who wants more than anything else
to battle cattle, never back down from a
. fight and stay on the move?

Well, judging from the participants in the
Longhorn World Championship Rodeo event
during the weekend at the Coliseum, mamas
» could do worse. ,

They could raise their babies to be
baseball players, guys who tend to whine a
lot about renegotiating $500,000-a-year
contracts for hitting .260. .

A cowboy, on the other hand, looks you
straight in the eyes, gives you the firmest of
handshakes, doesn’t expect anymore out of
life than what he puts into it, and rolls with
the punches. .

And the punches come frequently.

_ . For example, before the rodeo arrived at
the Coliseum last week, the cowboys learned
that they would not be able to ride bucking

.- horses or bulls because a Cincinnati
appellate court ruled that an old state law
against such diversions was valid.

That makes Ohio the only state in the
Union where the primary attractions of any
rodeo are illegal.

But the cowboys came here anyway.

Many of them didn’t have much choice
because they needed to particpate in some
event to earn money. So they just put on
their boots, jeans, cowboy shirts and hats
,_ and put on a show.

, , There was some bull riding and bronco

- busting, but it was shown on the Coliseum’s
large closed-circuit TV screens, hardly a

, reasonable substitute for the real thing.

The issue is over a device called a ﬂank
strap, which some say is used to irritate a
bull’s or horse’s genitals, thereby causing it »

 

 

.‘ to buck. But the strap is padded with soft
material, and, the cowboys say, is used to -
protect the animal. .

“It’s a dumb law,” said Dan Dailey, the
best competing cowboy of all. “It was passed
, by somebody who doesn’t know doodly squat
about animals.

' “A flank strap doesn’t make an animal
buck. The animal has to have the heart to
buck. The strap’s got nothing to do with it.

. Wu.
“The “a“ ’“i’é‘é’i's’ii‘i $33.1“
’ve 0t 35,00 , _ . a
ggg’ve ggot to proteCt the animal

ﬂank strap”

i Dailey, 34, has won 14 world all-around
rodeo titles. He usually competesin'four
‘1‘. events, but was in just one at the Coliseum,

steer wrestling, because the court took away

his others.

“Actually, they are taking money away
from me,” he said. “These animals would be
in the slaughter house or they would be
making glue out of them.”

Dailey pointed out that a horse called

Showboat, the world champion bucker, was

orignially owned by a show jumper who
couldn’t tame it. So it was the'glue factory

" or the rodeo. Showboat is doing fine.

 

SATURDAY EVENING POST
March 1986

Scratching Kitty’s Claws

Your correspondent objecting to
Dr. White’s mention of cat declawing
is the same propaganda myth I have
heard before and with very much the
same wording. Front-declawing an
offending cat is a .very humane
method of preventing serious destruc-
tion of property, people, and pets,
when no other method will work (in-
cluding the scratching post). These
cats can still defend themselves with
teeth and their back claws. They can
climb trees and catch mice. 1 have
known many to run all other dogs
and cats away from their property,
and their owners laugh when told by
other people how defenseless they
would be.

In more than 30 years of practice
and after thousands of declawing pro-
cedures, I have never seen cats “bleed
to death, develop impaired balance,
become biters...” as a result of being
or not being declawed, or “develop
impaired balance with eventual weak-
ening of their leg, shoulder, and back
muscles.” (Does ear-lobe piercing
cause deafness?) The nails are retract-
able and are not to be equated with
ﬁngernails or a dog’s toenails. A cat’s
claws are good as offensive weapons.
The nail is certainly not “their ﬁnger”
and any veterinarian who feels that
declawing is a “painful mutilation”
and has “seen firsthand the incredible
suffering” had better reexamine his
surgical techniques.

An extension of this myth is the
ploy that it is better to have a cat “put
to sleep” than to have it declawed.
Some organizations that sponsor
spaying and neutering programs (vet-
erinarians voluntarily give discounts
for them) even refuse this serv-

icefor cats who have been declawed
This is srmply a testimony to the type
of logic perpetuated by this cause.
rte is ri ht

You are to be commengied oflortrggg:
hshmg her many articles dedicated to
the humane welfare of all animals

Frederick F. E verhart, D. V.M.

Baltimore, Maryland

 




 

THE TAMPA TRIBUNE - Feb. 13,“1986

 

 

 

Lend me your ear

Arthur Wagan gets a love nip from one of
three Magellanic penguins that visited the
pediatric ward in Gainesville’s Shands HOSpi-

 

 

 

AP photo

tal Wednesday. The penguins, who came from
Cypress Gardens, live in the more tropical re-
gions of the Southern Hemisphere.

 




THE TAMPA TRIBUNE - February 13, 1986

Hunters charged in kil ;

I

EFloods forced the
Ebears from the
EmarShes’ to higher
ground, where they
3were shot.

2 BRISTOL (AP) — Eight Franklin
:County men have been charged in
fthe killing of seven black bears, a
uthreatened species in Florida, state
Zwildlife officials said Tuesday.

3, Authorities are looking for three
iother men in what has been de-
scribed as one of the largest illegal
;bear kills in Florida.

The bears were killed in Frank-
Zlin County over a two-month period
getter Hurricane Kate caused ﬂood-

 

Pensacola
Or

Black bears killed
Eight men were served arrest
summons for killing seven black
bears in Franklin County. Arrest

summons also have been
issued for three toher men.

 

cf 7 endangered black bears

if.

 

 

' Franklin
Creamy

-q,m‘.- : .- "1. x: .“zt ,
‘ nits: ('4' ”£633m‘ , rt: 1 kg“ ,
. > . . 2

food business in Apalachicola; Je
rome Brown. an Apalachicola teasi-
dermist; Ricky Davis, owner 0:
River Road Trucking inc. in Carra‘
belle; Clifford Nowiing, an Best
Point heavy equipment operator;
and East Point commercial fisher-
men Wayne Ellis Odom, James Cur-
tis Monroe, Robert Jake Tucker and

fing in the lower Apalachicola River
basin, said Stan Kirkland, a public
information officer for the state
iGame and Fresh Water Fish Com-
Emission.
f The bears were forced from
their marshy habitats to higher
ground in the woods. Kirkland said
the bears were spotted by deer hunt-
‘ ers and were shot for the meat and
hides. Heads and paws were taken
as trophies. '
Kirkland said the remains of
seven bears were found.

. There are no accurate figures on
“how many black bears are believed
to roam Florida, but they have been
a threatened species for 10 years be-
cause of loss of habitat, said Jim
Brady, 8 state wildlife biologist.
Black bears are widely distributed gs

James Dalton.

, , ;.§._-;:_..1=, Arrest summons. also have been
Q issued for three other men. but they"
.4347“ ~ haven’t been located yet, Kirkland
NEWSQN.\E‘ said.

 

 

in Florida and live in 47 of the
state’s 67 counties.

The eight men were served ar-
rest summons last week and ordered
to appear before Franklin County
Judge Susie Measamer on March 5.
Charges range from killing a threat-
ened species in possession .of a
' threatened species. The max1mum
penalty on each charge is a $590

‘ fine, a 60-day jail sentence or both.

-.

They were identified as D.W.

Wilson, owner of D.W. Wilson Sea-

t . . I
. ‘ - . s ,
' r.
4 , .l >.'
-t-M~Mvrvnk . 1 .~ «,v .. - -- :. .M .. m -'.- ’ ..

 

E
l
r
i
1

AF photo .
ghtmen i
l
l

{The remains of seven slain endangered black bears have been found in Franklin County. El
:have been charged in the illegal killings.

 




THE TAMPA TRIBUNE - Feb. 12, 1986

‘  Proposal to drown dogs for research draws protest

Tribune staff and wires

 

° * a UF associate professor.

. . . . . A universuy pFOfESSOF In that proposal, Melker wants to use as 3? The researcher then would insert
Local animal rights actrv15ts_wxll stage said the experiment COUld many as 42 stray dogs he would obtain V water in their lungs and SmmﬂChS
a (1891093039011 today at the Unrversnty 0f ' , from a pound to determine whether the Wllh a tube and then test. mouth-to-
Florida in Gamesvnlle to protest a proposal save human lives. Heimlich maneuver could be used in resus- Manith resuscitation and the lleim-
to drown as many as 42 dogs matest 0f the citating drowning victims. The Heimlich lich ma‘uieuver on the dogs to see
Halmlld} maneuver. . . maneuver is an abdominal thrust below the which taclmique- should he done

Raim Sequoya, founder and presndent diaphram used to clear obstructions from first. .
O‘f Natlongl .Anlmal nghts InC., sald anlm.al Sequoya Said. “There is even a question in the throat. Nit’lker‘s experiment [nay save
ﬁghts aCthlStS from around the State WI“ the research community of whether thlS The All-University Committee on the human lives by documenting that
attend the pmteSt’ scheduled to begin at 11 experiment should be done or not.” Care and Use of Laboratory Animals, . the maneuver is beneficial, or that it
am. The problem concerns an experiment which oversees the use of animals in UF is unnecessary or (1311830115 ‘be-

“This is a blatant abuse of animal life,” proposal presented by Dr. Richard Melker, research, is scheduled to discuss Melker’s cause it delays getting oxygen to the

V" ‘ ‘ brain of a person close to drowning,
m— proposal today at 3 p.m. Moseley said.

Ray Moseley, a philosopher with the Moseley said Dr. Henry Heim—
university’s Medical Humanities Program lich has proposed his maneuver be
and a Committee member,‘ said, “We is. F used prior to mouth~to~mouth resus-
should be very careful with how we use” . ' ‘ citation. .

animals.” lieimlich, however. in a letter to
otm’irnittee members and university
President Marshall (iriser, criticized
lirlellaer’s prop.‘)sed experimern.
“Drowning 4?. dogs in a needless
experinn-nt must be classified as
. cruelty.” he said. .
See DOGS: Page 143 ”’ ' f But Melker disagreed: “Our “rc-
= search would attempt in an unbiased
scientific study to determine if there
is any role to be played by the I-leim-
lich Maneuver in cases of near
drowning."

 

 

re-
”They A will
ain’tﬁtt'n
'3
I» «no i. .‘w n * ' ‘ g
.nm'mm ‘0'" vi ‘a‘m‘wau

deal with the anesthetic and iiigthe

C19“)?

But .he said he was inclined to support.
the prolects based on what he knows about
the experiments and the possible results

o

In Melker’s proposal, between 25 and...
42 dogs would .be anesthetized.

d. also a mem-
valid

"
I
b

c538
p:
3.3.
0::
E:
Q's-M
'Uw
as
E
'0
111'“
0.3
8

h.
0
>
9) .
5
O
m
c:
.9
m
-v-4
C.)
m
'0
3-"
Q)
G)
H
4...)
'73
‘3
E: f:
O i.
U
m
x:
«me

about animal

said.
sizes. .. .
1 they won’t discuss whether
are

wa
the committee will

-S&\

Y
*0
S
V
u
1".
Ali.
-‘«‘ UV p1
~11;
Elia...

7
b

pub
usual,
Howard
:rnnnr
in
w-

A" v- -
6' ‘J
‘3 \o

. hzabeth
proaaL:*

w.
ﬁ-d
b—I
Y‘s ,
f? z
A.)

”concern themselves. with the proce-

do

w, ‘ on
.5—2"
iwb.

..,..‘

u

E
(U
4-4
0
+--
G
W
E
w
W
Lg
w
'53
.33
,1:
4...:
m
m
“C:
+...
w
o .
k .
w
.12

cate the
search.

 

the“
3.} .a
,» 'l A .
Wolff? be ne:
Mrs“
ail;

L

r)

6..

t

t

‘3-

13‘
\"~« .

\.

7’

A... tram the taxpayers; ‘

lich-

.0
ill children

,
.H.
him:

3

7:)

o

., .._...3
9 t {1‘ ‘31:

A.
'9.

mmittee meeting,

4i

’9

is held a {1an
n at UPS Plaza oi‘the
(of animai r

\ ~.p

Ii "9'
iﬁﬁ re:

'2"; to prevent un-

.,
w s c 1
C73? 0i

p; ‘3‘. 1 ft" ‘1'. V. :
a;11.5i_tc...-._‘

3.1: e- if
6'"

e3*i
—:;'irown: ~

5
a.

’e experi-

ced opin-
lives 'were

r in the name of research.

6‘“

said 'Tom

position of
sanity professor and

f ."u §\!;

‘4:
.p.. r
not; A it (5‘;

I

<~‘»"~.~:1\'w
ﬁlial;

LC
~/‘ \1 39a...
<szd€w t
. (v
if

man 01" 38111-

both human
listened '1 as

do otherwise is to

7E"; .L:
} 7

aaeed

v

l}. E? iii it"

and privilege to

3.7”: C!
helping ill chil-

,7
0

e.
e for the Ethical

ish enough stud—
- m; enough research

11’
I

1"-

L

,

vi 1:7’ ‘I
f
U)
en
if
S

1

i

a.
2

.;€ crowd resea

UK;
7
‘..+ (x

iii.

1 lg from the lungs or

A. ‘
unmA

j,;?‘.l‘-

TH

LAH
, v1+
anti-a.

i (I “‘61;

«o. ,« . .
i 'L .. ' .' :f

I .n

IL-

*3» '- researcherscon-
Miller}? on animals be-
"And they;g,et a

gain tenure... -

peaker vol

. . u

'%P‘UPL
/ ..‘-LA L

A

animals‘
chefs"

to
*c

K

i
If;
u

E) ‘.-' :1
S
Y'
I

‘3

fCty

r2? tirzt must be classi-
oi Animais.

BCUVi

_ .52., '
Litif. ‘.
r'T‘.“ pi-

v.32,
- .as

E‘I'IK‘CT
C, xi i

r»

set:
‘* pinto

”T 4";

a
v \ " r
v.

O‘H- r.
.,-‘«:;~**-7*:-;rcn." the letter contin-

l

.41; . r.‘ . f ‘ 1-3.1...
.. .:‘-. r, ,v. .7 _'-;_‘? ,f
3 Wait: bf: 2. .4 1 «.r.:z =

x.:. ‘

,

L

pl»: MI E” 5* 33:; .‘ t: ,

“Your; BU: 3;"1'. amt
e‘;

.4

.
— l§ix
..i. a

“ 1
Vs)
A "c
n O
' .1 1; - _.
Helmhcn r
‘5"
b».
f.
P.
U

75 people

1‘ i
u
C"
C“
! V
rv v-rxys . ‘.‘_-
“Luiyfr '
1’.
1.1..
var
lK-a
Q
‘.
”f
U-

5

but to save the

inn}.

0
K
114. I.

Y‘
J.

l
t
1

_ 5* ﬁn
h ("‘«“w%'
’1
in
guer

in

5
fit ." :gl'."

(it, '1'

. reai purpose
rent is not to save hu

I

‘ .‘ﬁms- 31" . .:' 7' «_ «1-4 .. Hr > 'xv ‘
, a... , . , ._..... , ‘
lint. t.~1~.._, a". l!\“- Ax “ ). v ,

1'"
ﬂ
rig-J11
p.
0.3.
1373'
\..:..

a (I:

1 ’1
A ..
I} .—
l
Ca F
s“ 5*
P
t.
3,0
13

«11.2%.-
e
‘i'irowning 42 dogs is a need-

Ttiis precede."
ii

0?‘
IVY
1 ti;
we;

fur"
“3’51.
‘T 'i’“‘*“ .- \
Liz-11*:- -. ..
v .—1
i”:.
.p,‘
A.»
‘3‘:
(J:
V
I
((-‘Y‘V‘. .
‘ in-
I
In
.41",
l

I“.
About

speaker at

9.
t" '7

1"
.‘iu-

L1.

Before the co
ad their parents.

say
' 'c, - _-.,<g ..',;M,A..
U182!” . .
in:
form-
the 520273;;
I“ .4
rear
nllf‘a

. water

k
. v»‘ ,N.y‘
33.1)}; La

ma? life.
certain

A i. e
101;:
begin
sea
S"

T

L

,
0.41

.
demonstrau

" ciai
VIC
s :d

191.7:
(,- 9‘];
‘

 




THE TAMPA TRIBUNE - Feb. 13, 1986

who had s rent I 15 3a}
9331‘ pretesting the preie

..

.iis thing was ﬁrth ran»:
tats: Sequeya. {3233;31:33:
“WW3 3 3.3933231: RA-

3..

Ut“"*“”f-;..;'3:§

“‘1' es, we 1051 this. thing;
But we wiil never give a;
V8133 much like for nev» spape
teievr 10a cameras -—— membe
the medial oWitnessthe crown
these dogs"

in the. propo ass i,
wouidpt‘ mp wa er i-r 3.3.33
stomachs of 2.2 (if;
whet‘i‘rer the He imir
whet“: clears the 1331‘
items. sit-3:22.336 b
0.3.3:: 5'1 I}

 

 

 

 

peripeni w
danhto
Four-year-old
Sean Burke
talks to .
pr Nesting V . tivist3."8
“Snoopy”, 5 we ever
outside the ‘ hind 3119:3333
University of ' Daring

 

 

Florida library meeting. Melker said :1;
Wednesday. . , mantra 13:: sasehuntaavii
Joan Jenrich of We} the, 3m”
St. Petersburg _ - bem‘“‘““ OI _,

donned the 38‘ MIT.“ 5;?“
cartoo’n f prgm‘ Va u

character’s “was 3:13,;
outfit t6 wire; in:
protest a '
research

proposal.

 

 

Tribune photo by KYLE DANACEAU
tre- '

\

Wning research on dogs ‘, 1

Z "‘5.
’a. b.1i‘elwm-“ _

‘ i
v r

‘ ‘ ~ . everx sir»: we rs dei‘f '333:

wins UF panel’s approval 1 1;

k
.‘ »

 

By BETTINITA HARRIS . , . '
Tribune Staff Writer Researchers plan to test the

Heimlich v r v
GAINESVILLE — A University of Florida maneu e on 22

committee that oversees the use of animals stray (1098.
for scientific research approved a project

Wednesday that calls for the simulated drowning victims

drowning of stray (1085- The proposal now will go before a peer
After a 131ng discussion, the nine mem-. review committee in March. If approved, the

bers of the All-University Committee on the preject couici begin by late March or early

Care and Use of Laboratory Animals voted Apr“, researchers said

unanimously for the project, which will test The committe’s decision brought an out-

the effectiveness of the Heimlich maneuver pouring 0f ”“9383 among animal rights ac-

vs. mouth-to-mouth resuscitation on near- ‘ . See DOGS, Page 1013

 

 




 

TAMPA TRIBUNE - February 16, 1986

Sounds uttered by the giants but inaudible to
humans may be a secret language and may be
evidence of much more rich, complex lives
among the beasts than humans realized.

By BAYARD WEBSTER
New York Times

NEW YORK — Elephants emit
low-frequency vocal sounds, inaudi-
ble to man, that may be used as a
“secret” language to communicate
with other members of a herd over
both long and short distances, re-
searchers at Cornell University have
discovered.

The sounds, believed to originate
from a fluttering spot. on the giant
animals’ foreheads, are at frequen-
cies in the range of 14 to 24 hertz,
below the threshold of human hear-
mg.

It is the first evidence that land
mammals can produce such infra-
sonic sounds, and it adds the ele-
. phants’ basso calls to the wildlife
1 ' choir that includes the high-fre-
quency shrieks of bats, the soprano
voices of porpoises, the alto wails of
wolves and coyotes and the tenor-to-
bass-range songs of humpback
whales. The significance and role of
such sounds, audible to people or
not, has long puzzled wildlife biolo-
gists.

“This discovery is like suddenly
finding a tribe with a hitherto un-
known language,” said Dr. Thomas
Lovejoy, vice president for science
of the World Wildlife Fund in Wash-
ington. “I think it will add a whole
new dimension to our understanding
of elephant communications and so-
cial systems.”

Preliminary observations by the
researchers that correlate the ele-
phants’ utterance of low-frequency
sounds with their behavior lead the
scientists to believe that the low
tones may be a communications
method.

“We hope that our research and
future investigations may enable us
to get a better insight into how ele-
phants live and what part these calls
play in coordinating their extremely
complicated social behavior,” said
Katharine Payne, 3 member of the

 

Cornell Laboratory of Ornithology’s
investigating team, which includes
William Langbauer Jr. and Eliza-
beth M. Thomas.

While observing a group of ele-
phants, the world’s largest land ani-
mals, a year ago at the Washington
Park Zoo in Portland. Ore, Payne,
who is a research fellow of the New
York Zoological Society. felt unusual
throbbing sensations

searchers then noticed that when-
ever their sensitive metering equip-
meht registered very low-frequency
sounds that they could not hear, that
area of the elephant’s forehead also
fluttered. Payne’s hunch had proved
to be correct.

Scientific observations of African

elephants in Amboseli National Park

in Kenya and of Asian elephants in

' zoos in Oregon and Florida have in-

dicated that the infrasonic calls
seem to convey a variety of mes-
sages to the elephants that receive
them.

In studies of groups of elephants,
the researchers noted with their
low-frequency recording equipment
that when a calf would scream, sev-
eral adult females would move to-
ward it and start vocalizing in low
frequencies. The adults also uttered
many infrasonic calls as they began
to move as a group from one spot to
another, or as they shooed a stray
baby back to its mother.

Researchers hypothesize that

, when male elephants are in must, a

condition of heightened sexual ac—
tivity, they listen for the long-dis-
tance infrasonic signals of females
in estrus, enabling them to home in

 

in the airé

around her that lasted from 10 to 15

seconds each time they occurred.

“They felt something like the

big pipe organ, or the slight shock

‘ vibrations from the lowest note on a '

wave one can feel from far-off thun-
der,” she recalled in an interview. “I
had a hunch that, somehow, the ele-
phants were causing that sensation,

possibly by emitting very low-fre-

quency sounds.”

Back at her office in Ithaca, '
N.Y., she and her colleagues gath-

ered ultrasensitive acoustic equip— ‘

ment and returned to Portland to

make more intensive investigations. " '

They found that there was a spot on
an elephant’s forehead that fluttered
or trembled when the animal ut-
tered audible vocal calls such as
rumbles or purring sounds. The re-

 

Scientlsts say elephants can produce low fre
communicate with each other.

f

 

 

UPI
quency sounds to

photo

 




on the females. This would explain
one of the great mysteries that has
long puzzled elephant field research-
ers: How do males find females sev-
eral miles away during the very
brief period of two days a month
when the females are fertile?

The scientists also reason that
the low-frequency calls are probably
used to coordinate activities of a
closely knit group when they are
relatively far apart. For example, in
traveling through a forest the ani-
mals would be much better able to
communicate with infrasonic calls
than with high-frequency sounds,
which carry only short distances and
fade rapidly in heavily wooded
areas. In contrast, very low-fre-
quency sounds are known to travel
much greater distances before los-
ing their strength.

An account of the Payne team’s
research is scheduled to appear in
the forthcoming issue of Behavioral
Ecology and Sociobiology. a scien-
tific journal. The continuing re-
search project is sponsored by the
World Wildlife Fund, the Cornell
Laboratory of Ornithology and the
National Geographic Society.

Considerable study has been de-
voted to the use by animals as di-
verse as bats and shrews of very
high-frequency sounds above the
range of human hearing, which is
from about 20 to 20,000 hertz. But lit-
tle has been known about the use of
extremely low-freQuency sounds by
animals.

A few bird species, such as pi-
geons, guinea fowl and the flightless
cassowaries and rheas are known to
perceive infrasounds, but their rele-
vance to the birds’ lives is not fully
understood. Fin whales have been
found to produce intense infrasonic
calls that, theoretically, can travel
very long distances in water. But the
purpose of such calls is not known.

Payne, who has spent two de-

cades studying whale behavior and l

communication with her former hus-
band, Roger Payne, is known for her
discovery that all humpback whales
in a group will change the melodies
of their songs in exactly the same
way.

Her finding is evidence that the
song changes are passed on by learn-
ing, an example of cultural evolu-
tion, which can be compared to the'
way aspects of human culture
change. Her research produced the
most extensively documented exam-
ple of a cultural trait exhibited by a
wild animal.

The voices of the different ele-

The audible noises elephants
make — their trumpeting, growls
and rumblings — have long been be-
lieved to be their only vocal means
of sending signals or more compli-
cated messages to each other, in
addition to their communications by
smell and touch. The Cornell team’s
discovery, however, indicates the
existence of a more sophisticated
complex of elephant communication
than was previously known.

Such a communication system
would be an asset to a society whose
families divide into groups with dif-

ferent degrees of stability, different '

schedules and different reasons for

 

gathering or dispersion, Payne said. .

Observers of both Asian and African

elephants have been puzzled for

years by occurrences of sudden
coordinated movements of large
groups of elephants when no signal
was apparent to human observers.
“The use of infrasonic calls may
offer an explanation for this,” Payne
said.

“We hope that learning the
meaning of these calls may help
save the elephants from extinction,”
she said, pointing out that Asian ele-
phants are officially listed as endan-
gered and that African elephants are
threatened by poachers, whose dep-
radations are still of major propor-
tions despite efforts to halt them.

“Our ultimate hope is that our
work may increase the elephants’
chances of survival in the world,”

 

phants were found to have different
harmonic structures. And many of
the infrasonic calls were found to
have an audible harmonic tone that

was registered by the human ear as ‘

a discernible rumbling noise.

she said. “The more humans know
about other animals, the more
humans realize that animals, too,
lead rich complex lives with con-
cerns similar enough to ours that
they should not be ignored.”

She noted that Cynthia Moss and
Joyce Poole, wildlife researchers of
the Amboseii Elephant Research
Project in Kenya, have studied the
intricate and sophisticated social
structure of elephants and found
that their relationships extend well
beyond the core family group
through a multitier network of rela-
tionships encompassing scores of
animals.

Offspring will live with their par-
ents, grandparents, siblings and
cousins for scores of years, caring
for each others’ needs. The actions
of baby elephants often dictate what

activities the group as a whole en-
gages in, the two scientists found.
When baby wants to take a nap, for
example, the entire family group
will stop at the scene and wait for
the baby to complete its nap before
the group moves on.

Within the next two years, Payne
and Langbauer and Thomas plan to
study the infrasounds and corre-
sponding actions of both Asian and

 

African elephants in the wild. Usnig

specially designed equipment at

lookout stations, they will be able to
observe and film the elephants at 3
close hand while recording both

their audible and infrasonic calls.
The results of this research are ex-
pected to provide an even deeper in-
sight into the role elephant com-
munications play in their behavior
and social structures.

New York Tlmes |

 

Sounds too low in the spectrum for humans to hear are produced by elephants, and the sounds apparently

can help the pachyderms communicate from one end'of the herd to the other.

 




BARRY GOLDWATER, ARIZONA, CHAIRMAN
STROM THURMOND. SOUTH CAROLINA SAM NUNN, GEORGIA
JOHN W. WARNER, VIRGINIA JOHN C. STENNIS, MISSISSIPPI
GORDON J. HUMPHREY, NEW HAMPSHIRE GARY HART, COLORADO
WILLIAM S. COHEN, MAINE J. JAMES EXON, NEBRASKA
DAN OUAYLE, INDIANA CARL LEVIN, MICHIGAN

'
JOHN P. EAST, NORTH CAROLINA EDWARD M. KENNEDY, MASSACHUSETTS ﬁnltz
PETE WILSON, CALIFORNIA JEFF BINGAMAN, NEW MEXICO
JEREMIAH DENTON, ALABAMA ALAN J. DIXON. ILLINOIS

PHIL GRAMM, TEXAS JOHN GLENN, OHIO
JAMES F. McGOVERN, STAFF DIRECTOR AND CHIEF COUNSEL COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES

ARNOLD L PUNARO, STAFF DIRECTOR FOR THE MINORITY WASHINGTON, DC 20510

February 3, 1986

Mrs. Constance F. Yarbrough
3149 King Arthur Court, N.E.
Atlanta, Georgia 30345

Dear Connie:

Thank you for your recent letters regarding the transfer of
the predator control program from the U.S. Department of the
Interior to the U.S. Department of Agriculture and funding for
the Elk Creek Dam. I appreciate your sharing your views with me
on these issues.

It is not unusual for specific language aimed at a variety of
needs to be added to comprehensive bills being considered in
Congress. During consideration of the bill making continuing

appropriations for the government late last year, a measure was
included which provided for the predator control program
transfer. No recorded vote took place on this transfer; however,
you may be assured that I will keep your comments in mind if and
when this matter is again considered by the Senate.

Construction of the Elk Creek Dam in Oregon has been underway
for some time; however, I will continue to monitor this situation
with your thoughtful views in mind. '

It is always good to hear from you, Connie, and I hope that
you will continue to advise me on issues of interest to you.

incere y,

Sam Nunn

 




 

BOSTON GLOBE magazine - Feb. ‘9, 1986

l ' 7

\
.‘

DVENTURE

BY MICHAEL MATZA

HEN MY WIFE AND I
decided to take Phoebe, our 15-
year-old beagle-mutt, with us for
a year in France, we had‘ no idea
she was about to become an
international fugitive from justice.
Through inadvertence, we had
neglected to have her licensed for 1985 back
in Massachusetts. Apparently, that was
enough to make her canine public enemy
number one in Somerville. Our Boston lawyer
broke the news by mail. ’

“Included in your latest batch of mail was
some of what we lawyers call ‘process,’
launched, recently, from the missile silo that
we know as the Somerville District Court,”
he wrote. Attached to his letter was a copy of
an official-looking application for a criminal
complaint. It was an order for my wife, Linda,
to appear in court. “Apparently,” our lawyer
continued, “Dog Officer Judith Lavender has
put Phoebe on the most wanted list in our fair
town. I did not see this until after the court
date. But rest assured. I shall render unto
Phoebe the best defense work imaginable —
not one legal brief short of what I would do
for a canine member of my own family. Of
course, you guys could very well go to jail for
this. But Phoebe and I will never stop fighting
for your release.”

80 ended the message from our loyal legal
eagle about our loyal, but unfortunately
illegal, beagle.

After she received the news, Phoebe
moped and dragged her hind legs around our
Paris apartment. It was her first brush with
the law, and the signs of a hang-dog

"Wu "muss-mam [W‘ yM-‘i I I I

“he?“

 

 

 

 

 

 

MICHAEL MATZA IS A FELLOW AT JOURNALISTES EN EUROPE.

Illustrations by Paul Meisel

 




depression were unmistakable. The droopy
ears; the permanent furrow in the eyebrows; ‘
the paws that twitch

against the cold. She sighed, or slept the day
away, and sometimes she looked as if she
were about to breathe her last. '

course, I tended to think it was all just
a Meyer Lansky-style “Mafia malady” to
avoid extradition. But the fact was, Phoebe
the Wonder Dog was getting old.

YOU DON’T DECIDE TO TAKE AN AGING
family pet to Europe on a whim, and we
didn’t. c

countries in the
Common Market. Linda left a good job at a
Boston television station to accompany me.
Saying “au revoir” to colleagues and friends
in Boston was hard to do.
Looking back, however, we realize that
the hardest decision relating to our year

She was old and ailing, but at the time we left
oston we simply weren’t ready to have her
put to sleep.” Leaving her behind with a
friend or a relative seemed impossible.

ssuming someone was Willing to nurse a
geriatric dog for a year, could Phoebe live
without us? More to the point, as the end of
ier life was drawing near, could we live

.vithout her?

From the time Linda was 16, Phoebe was

181' constant companion. They met in 1970

hrough a classified ad in the Village Voice.

" ey grew up together in the parks and on
he beaches of Brooklyn, went to college and
.iked the mountains in Amherst, and came of
ge in Boston. They trusted each other’s
.dgment implicitly. Phoebe was timid, hardly

guard dog, but she was protective just the

:me. When it came to ma ' g new friends,

‘ ould sniff out a creep a mile away. A

ranger’s stock rose or fell in inverse

~oportion to the fur on Pho

as the master of first impressions, and she

aght us how to Continued on page 66

{l

ke an elderly dog
to Paris‘iz:

 

 

 

 

I ' ':
W 'I i O L dd m i O l I V.» .1E’tl‘V/‘I ‘ ‘ /

THE BOSTON GLOBE MAGAZINE. FEBRUARY 9, 1986

N
H

 




 

 

  

placed on this main deck, not in the luggage com-
partment in the belly of the plane. In this way,
Phoebe could ﬂy under “temperature-regulated”
cabin conditions. “She’ll be as comfortable as the
pilot,” an Air France representative assured us.

So we made arrangements for all of us to
leave from New York on August 25 —— Phoebe
on Air France; her meshuga owners on a cheap
charter three hours later. Her airfare was calcu-
lated according to the weight and volume of her
ﬂying kennel. For a one-way fare, her ticket cost
50 percent more than mine. She arrived in style
at Charles de Gaulle; because we had to see her
off, we landed later at the older and more con—
gested Orly—Sud. In our- luggage was a copy of
veterinarian Bernard Hershhorn’s sensitive clas-
sic Active Years for Your Aging Dog, and a two-
week supply of Cycle 4.

From Orly, we zipped off by rental car to col—
lect Phoebe. We approached the Air France car-
go-claim area cautiously. It was Sunday, the place
was quiet, and Phoebe was nowhere to be seen
on the expansive loading dock. Both Linda and I
were silently wondering if she had made it intact.
On our cargo—claim ticket she was listed as a
chiemze vivam‘e; we were hoping that description
still held true. The clerks at Air France seemed
amused at our suspense. We later learned that
they were expecting the arrival of dolphins the
following week on a plane from God knows
where. So the arrival of a beagle-mutt from the
USA must have seemed like a piece of quiche.
Theatrically, they told us that Phoebe had landed
safely and was actually awaiting our arrival. A
workman brought her to us using a- forklift to
carry the wooden pallet on which her kennel was
perched.

it has always amazed me that no matter
where we took Phoebe {usually by car, not plane}
she invariably bolted on being released. It was
almost as if she knew the place through some
kind of doggie deja vu. True to form, when Linda
opened the kennel door, Phoebe flew out, ears
streaming back in the wind, snout to the French
soil, zigging and zagging in the cargo-area
parking lot, and obviously none the worse for
wear.

are behind us now. The chance to enjoy

life together in the dog capital of the uni-
verse made the effort seem worth it. Phoebe was
a hit with our French neighbors. And she lent a
sense of continuity to our lives as we struggled to
master a new language and culture. ~

In December, the ‘Somerville court case
against Phoebe was dismissed. On January 6, she
died. She was cremated. Her ashes are in the
Seine.

When we first arrived, we had a favorite cafe
in Montmartre. We’d dine there on mushroom
salads and ruby—red glasses of Cotes du Rhone.
Phoebe would be at our feet, sipping daintily
from a water bowl that the cafe owner was only
too happy to provide. Sometimes we’d think
about our friends back in Boston, and about how
Phoebe got her nickname. “Hey, look. It’s Phoe-
be the Wona’er Dog,” our friend Bob, a Somer-
ville mechanic, used to say. “I wonder how she
got this far?” 0

The difficulties of getting Phoebe to Paris

 




 

 

 

trust our senses, too. Leave
Phoebe behind when we went
to Paris? That idea just never
felt right.

Our first important call was
to our vet, a wonderful woman
on the staff of Angell Memorial
Hospital who had been caring
for Phoebe — and us —— for al~
most a decade. We quickly

learned that there are two
schools of thought on transat- 1

lantic travel for older dogs.
. School one: Don’t do it. Ca-
mne senior citizens react poorly

to stress. Merely rearranging ‘

the furniture in your apartment

-— putting a new armchair in
F ido's favorite ﬂoorspace, for ;
example -— can throw him into ‘

a deep depression. Jet lag, ken-
nel cramps, and “foreign” life
can be fatal.

School two: Do it. Modern
dogs adapt remarkably well to
the stresses of the modern
,world. They can be resilient on
the road, especially if their mas-
ters take precautions to make
them comfortable.

Believing that Phoebe could
make it, we opted for school
two. And as a friend in Boston
pointed out, the pace of life in
Paris could be something of an
elixir for the old girl. “She’ll
‘ buy a new hat and stroll on the
Champs Elysees,” our friend
assured us. “She’ll be young
again.”

As I began dealing with the
details of getting two human
beings settled overseas, Linda
' explored the world of the dog-
gie jet set. It didn’t take us long
to learn that France is doggie
. heaven and that Paris is the ca-
nine capital of , the universe.
; The welcome begins at the bor-
‘~ der. Dogs without contagious
. diseases enter France freely
. and without delay. Had Phoebe
. been going to England, for ex-
ample, a six-month quarantine
would have been required. Had
she been going to China, where
dog is a delicacy, well — she
might have ended up in real hot
‘ water.

‘ The French, as anyone who
even vacations here quickly re—
alizes, are positively crazy

 

 

 

 

HE;

_ .

 

about their four-legged friends. The
French are, in fact, the champion dog
owners of Europe. According to a recent
cover story in L’Express, entitled “In
France: The AnimalIs King,” the
French dog population of nine million

— easily tops that of its nearest European

competitors — Great Britain, with 6.3
million, and West Germany, with 3.6
million. In Paris alone, some 500,000
dogs live more or less peaceably with a
human population that numbers 2.1 mil-
lion. (The United States, by way of com-
parison, has 46 million canines.)

Yet in Paris, it seems, dogs are more
obviously integrated into everyday life.
They ride in shopping carts at the super-
market, in motorcycle sidecars, and on
escalators in canvas shoulder bags. They
ride the Metro, of course. And they’re
welcome at the table with their owners
in the majority of fancy brasseries. They
roam freely through butcher shops and
through offices. A canine companion of
Paris Mayor Jacques Chirac’s press atta-
che is a fixture at City Hall. Dogs of ev-
ery description trail on leashes behind
blue—haired mesdames on the streets of
Montmartre. And they skip playfully
around the alleys of Le Marais, nipping
at the coattails of chic mademoiselles
who have “1e look” of actress Sophie
Marceau. .

So the prospect of a year in Paris
meant that Phoebe would be in her ele-
ment. As we told her over and over
again, “The good news is, you’re going
to Paris. The bad news is, you’re going
in a box.” .

O ne of our first contacts was with
Jim Leonard of the US Depart-
ment of Agriculture’s Veteri-
nary Health Services in Waltham. Leon-

ard’s office authorizes the export of ’
solution. Once a day, Air France fixes a

plants and animals from New England.

The author’s wife, linda, greets Phoebe at Charles de Gaulle Airport

 

And it was Leonard who issued the for-
‘ New York to Charles de Gaulle Airport
Health Certificate,” which we took to ‘

mal, embossed, “United States Origin

calling Phoebe’s “doggie visa.” The doc-
ument was very complete. In addition to
listing the dates of inoculations for Phoe-
be’s required rabies and distemper—par-

I

in Paris.

vovirus vaccinations, it also listed the
batch numbers and expiration dates of
the serums that were used. It carried
the signatures of an “issuing veterinar-
ian” and an “endorsing federal veterin-
arian.” It looked important.

From his barrackslike office at the
Federal Records Center on Trapelo
Road, Leonard explained that Phoebe

was in rather select company. Her re-

quest for permission to leave the coun-
try was among 55 such animal—export
requests that Leonard processed in July
1985. That total, he said, included only
10 or 15 dogs and cats. “The big vol-
ume,” Leonard explained, “is in live-
stock, the equine, bovine, and porcine
varieties.” The thought of Phoebe shar-
ing a plane with a stud bull cracked us
up.
A friend had Offered to lend us the
traveling kennel that she had used only
once, years ago, for her now—aging gold-
en retriever named Zoe. The kennel was
more than big enough for Phoebe, who
weighed less than 30 pounds and stood
knee-high on all fours.

Linda’s assignment was twofold:
Make arrangements that would some-
how minimize the number of hours that
Phoebe would have to spend in the box,
and find an airline with a heated cargo
compartment. Most such compartments,
we learned, never get warmer than 45
degrees Fahrenheit. Warm enough to ;
keep the cologne bottle in your suitcase '
from freezing. But a little chilly after
seven hours for a living thing.

It was clear that Phoebe had to trav-
el on a ﬂight that was as direct as possi—
ble. After a lot of searching, after calls
to airlines and steamship lines and even
the world-famous, supersonic, New-
York—to—Paris-in—three-hours Concorde,
Linda discovered what seemed the only

cargo plane from Kennedy Airport in

in Paris. It carries only-cargo, which
means that the so-called main flight
deck, where passengers usually sit, has
been stripped of its seats. Live cargo is

Continued on [mgr 69

 

 

 

 




B THE TAMPA TRIBUNE, Monday, February 17, 1986

 

Residents
hope to save
2 pit bulls

The Seffner residents
want to adopt the
animals, but county
policy bars the
adoption of pit bulls.

By DEBRA BRADLEY
Tribune Staff Writer

Two pit bull terriers are sched-
uled to die by chemical injection
Thursday in Hillsborough County,
but not if three Seffner residents
have their way.

i A county animal control officer
picked up the two dogs Feb. 6 after
the stocky canines escaped from a
neighbor’s yard and ran onto the

property where Thersa Bailey and .

William Barnes live. The dogs
scrambled into a visitor’s car
parked there, scratching the paint
and upholstery.

But now Bailey, Barnes and
Barnes’ sister are trying to adopt
the two part-pit bulls because the
owner has not claimed themz’

Here’s the hitch:

“Our policy is not to adopt pit
bulls, ‘ said Dan Gorman, director
of the county’s animal control cen-
ter on Orient Road near State Road
60. Gorman may make an excep-
tion in this case, but he intends to
wait until Thursday to decide.

The wait is tough for Bailey, 26,
who poked her fingers through the
large cage last week as the stocky
brown and white female jumped
up to sniff Bailey’s fingers. The
beige pit bull in the next cage did
the same.

“They wanna go home so bad
Bailey moaned as she clutched
a white shawl around her and
choked back her tears.

Bailey and her friends feel re-
sponsible for the dogs’ predica-
ment because they called the Sher-
iff’s Office when the animals dam-
aged the car. They insist the ani-
mal control officer promised the
dogs would not be killed, and that
the couple could pick up the ca-
nines after six days. They agreed
to surrender the dogs so the own-

 

Tribune photo by DAVE GEIGE

These two pit bull terriers were taken to Hillsborough’s animal control center after damaging a
car. Now the residents who initally complained about the animals want to adopt them.

ers could be located, they say.
Pit bulls, the trio later learned,
are not your ordinary breed.

Dogs captured by animal con-
trol officers normally are held for
six days so the owner can reclaim
them, explained Gorman. Some get
an extra week. The unclaimed ani-
mals are either put up for adoption
or — if they are sick, bad-tem-
pered, or unlikely to be adopted ——
killed with an injection of sodium
pentobartibal.

Animal control “euthanizes”
some 20,000 dogs and cats each
year and “most of them are per-
fectly good, but nobody gives a
damn,” Gorman said.

However, the agency does not
give away pit bulls because work-
ers can’t tell which ones were bred
and trained for fighting and hunt-
ing, said Gorman. They also don’t
know whether prospective owners
will use the dogs for aggressive
purposes, and “I don’t want to be a
supplier” for illegal dog fights, he
said.

Gorman said the unwritten
policy has been in effect about 31/2
years. The Humane Society of

Tampa Bay has a similar policy
aimed at protecting the dogs from
mistreatment.

Gorman has not ruled out the
adoption, but he wants to give the
owner until Thursday to retrieve
the pets or sign them over to Bai-
ley. If that fails, he’ll confer with
his boss, county Director of Public
Safety Gil Rodriguez. Rodriguez
said Friday he has made no deci-
sion but that “we may authorize
putting them up for adoption.”

The Seffner couple doubts the
owner intends to get the dogs be-
cause his family knew of their

pending death and didn’t contact.

animal control. Efforts to reach
the owner were unsuccessful.

“We’re willing to give these
dogs a good home,” reasoned Bai-
ley, of 1701 Elise Marie Court. “We
just don’t see why they have to put
’em to sleep.”

“These dogs were breeder
dogs. They weren’t trained (to
fight) at all,” added Barnes of the
part-pit bulls. “They’re real mild-
mannered dogs, and healthy.”

To Barnes and others, the
county policy translates into dis-

crimination.

Asserted local animal right
supporter Raini Sequoya: “No, nc
all pit bulls want to attack people
The pit bull has earned an uncle
serving reputation. This poor an
mal has been so, so maligned.” H
places much of the blame 0
media accounts of deaths an
maulings at the jaws of pit bulls.

Such attacks, however, hav
spurred several communities nz
tionwide, including Tampa an
Broward County, to consider spc

acial rules and bans against pf

bulls. Many of them have been dt
clared unconstitutional becaus
they single out one breed, sai:
Phillip R. Synder of the Humane
Society of Tampa Bay.

Generally speaking, pit bull
are loyal to their owners and goo
with people, said Snyder. But the
are extremely strong, aggressive
and have one of the most powerfi
bites of any dog. They’re apt to fa
into bad hands, so the Human
Society prefers killing pit bulls t
subjecting them to bloody fights

“A humane death is much he
ter than the mistreatment that goe
on.” said Synder.

 

 




 

 

TAMPA TRIBUNE - 2/16/86

California
condors
dwindle

There are 21
California condors in
captivity and only five
in the wild.

By CASS PETERSON
Washington Post

A national effort to save the Cali-
fornia condor from extinction has
come down to this: At a recent court
hearing on the fate of the bird, there
were more lawyers in the room than
there are condors in the wild.

Despite an ambitious recovery
program financed by millions of pri-
vate and federal dollars, the number
of condors clinging to survival in
their last citadel amid the mountains
of southern California has dwindled
from 40 to five in less than a decade.

Twenty-one more are in captivity
as part of a breeding program to re-
plenish the natural population, but
the first release of young birds had
to be scrapped last year when the
Los Angeles 200, through a bureau-
cratic snafu, tamed the candidates.
Future release plans have been put
on hold while the zoo tries to reverse
the taming process.

In the meantime, the U.S. Fish
and Wildlife Service says it cannot
guarantee the safety of the few re-
maining wild condors, and it wants
to trap and cage all five.

“The California condor is a
highly endangered bird threatened
with extinction in the very near fu-
ture,” said Jan Riffe of the wildlife
service. “If we cannot control mor-
tality, we don’t want to take the
risk.”

Environmentalists fear the move
will open the condor’s mountainous
preserve to development and erase
its last slim hope of survival.

Zoo officials “think they can

breed them for 20 years and then re-
ipnge them-" said the Sierra Club’s

Mark Palmer. “They are dreadfully
naive about the politics of the situa-
tion.”

For the moment, the environ-
mentalists are on top. Last week, the
National Audubon Society won a fed-
eral district court ruling that pre-
vents __the government from trapping
more condors.

But the ruling, if it survives an
appeal, may deflect only tempo-
rarily a debate that has far-reaching
implications for the nation’s 20-year-
old program to salvage its vanishing
species. In essence, the question is
this: If it is deemed too risky — or
too expensive -— to maintain a spe-

. cies in the wild, is it enough to keep

it alive in a 200?

For some conservationists, the
answer is no. “I don’t see the point,”
said Palmer. “We’re trying to re-
store our ecosystem, not sweep it
under the rug. It sounds like the Fish
and Wildlife Service is turning its
back on the whole endangered-spe—
cies program.” Both conservationists
and wildlife officials agree that, for
the California condor, there is some
urgency to answering the question.

A carrion-eating vulture with a
naked orange head and hulking
black body, the condor is a forlorn-
looking creature in an aviary. But it
is the vision of splendor soaring
above a mountain ridge, its 10-foot
wingspan spread to catch the warm
updrafts that can keep it aloft for an
hour without flapping a wing.

For more than 30 years, conser-
vation groups have battled to save
the high-flying condor, the largest
land bird in North America and a
heroic symbol of the wilderness that
once was California.

But the condor’s natural habits
and requirements make it a particu-
larly difficult species to protect.

It feeds on animal carcasses,
which were in plentiful supply when
the arid wilderness hosted numerous
large predators. Today, the car-
casses are likely to contain bullet
fragments or be laced with poisons
to protect livestock from what
predators remain. In recent years,
at least three condors died of lead
poisoning and another was acciden-
tally poisoned by a coyote trap set
by the federal wildlife service.

The habitat controversy has cen-
tered on the Hudson Ranch, a pri-
vately owned 14,000—acre tract
strategically located in the south‘
central part of the condor’s horse-
shoe-shaped range. Thermal air cur-
rents in the area make it attractive
to the gliding birds, and biologists
have made it more so by feeding the
birds there in an effort to prevent
more poisoning deaths.

At the urging of environmental-
ists and federal biologists, Congress
appropriated nearly $9 million to
purchase the ranch as a condor ref-
uge. The money has never been
spent, partly because the owner is
unwilling to accept the government’s
$5 million offer and partly because
the Office of Management and
Budget is unenthusiastic about
spending money on a refuge for a
bird many believe is doomed.

The owner, Seattle real estate
developer Richard Hadley, bought
the land in 1981 to use for agricul-
tural development and as a weekend
retreat for urbanites.

There are signs near the ranch,
offering lots for sale, but Hadley
said uncertainty over the condor
“makes it difficult to proceed.”

TAMPA TRIBUNE - 2/11/86

 

3. " _, . ’ '

Brandon

“Punky Brewster’s”
golden retriever,
BRANDON, and his series
‘co—star, Soleil Moon Frye,
will pick up an award from
Gaines pet food Thursday.

According to columnist
Marilyn Beck, the award
celebrates three years of
the company’s “We Share
Your Love for Dogs”
program, during which
more than $500,000 has
been raised for the
American Humane
Association and some
1,000 animal shelters
throughout the country.

The show
demonstrates how to be a
good friend to man’s best
friend.

The AHA and Gaines
feel Punky and Brandon
provide fine role models
for human-pet
relationships.

 

 

 




4AA;

Reader advocates government—subsidize<

Spay/neuter clinics for dogs and cats

 

' Dear Dr. Shan-
non: As an avid ani-
mal lover, I strong-
;ly support the idea
of government sub-
sidized spay / neuter
clinics —- especially
for the indigent pet
owners of this area.
I consider this as
the only way to con-
‘trol the dog and cat overpopula-
tion problem. The city of Los An-
geles has proven that a govern-
ment-subsidized program will
work. Why doesn’t everyone get
together in this area and push for
such a program? What do you
think?

, Dear Reader: Several times in
”the past, I have commented in this
column that for any spay / neuter
program for dogs and cats to be
successful, it must be accompa-
nied by a large-scale humane edu-
cation program and an active, effi-
cient animal-control service.

My thoughts on this subject
have not changed. A government-
subsidized spay / neuter program
alone is not the answer.

It only addresses the symptoms
of the disease of dog and cat over-
population; it doesn’t address the
basic cause of the disease which is
simply animal owner irresponsi-
bilty.

The city of Houston’s animal-
'control program has made consid-
erable progress in recent years;
“however, there is an enormous
amount of room for progress, espe-
cially in the areas of ordinance en-
forcement and human education.

For our city government to go
all out in support of a tax-support-
ed spay / neuter program would, in
my opinion, be a waste of taxpay-
ers’ money.

Taxpayers should not have to
shoulder the financial burden of
such a program. .

’ The spaying / neutering of dogs
and cats requires professional ex-
;pertise and should remain within
‘the profession of veterinary medi-
cine and not become another free-
bie of government service.

Animal control is an integral
function within the total public
health program that serves a city

or county.

Therefore, the enforcement of
*animal ordinances and the protec-
iftion of human health becomes the
:primary objective of animal—con-
’tI'Ol agencies.

Believe me, this alone is a giant
undertaking considering the enor-
mity of the city of Houston and the
surrounding area.

Animal welfare agencies such
as the Houston Humane Society,
Citizens for Animal Protection,
Animal Rescue League, Special
Pals, Houston SPCA and others in
surrounding counties have active
humane-education programs
which are being integrated into
public and private schools.

The Harris County Health De—
partment has, for several years,
presented an excellent animal edu-
cation program to teachers and
students.

The City of Houston Health De-
partment also is getting more in-
volved in educational programs
pertaining to pet owner responsi-
bilities. As a result of this concert-
ed effort by non-government and
government agencies, taxpayers
will save, students will benefit,
and the animals will be better off.

My point is that many of the
problems of dog and cat overpou-
lation can be satisfactorily han-
died by the private sector without
having to toss the problem into the
lap of a government agency.

The veterinary profession,
working through organizations
such as the Texas Veterinary Med-
ical Association and Harris County
Veterinary Medical Association, is
willing to work with the public in
various ways as evidenced by the
declaration that February 1986 be
designated as spay / neuter month.

More than 50 veterinary hospi-
tals and clinics in this area have
agreed to reduce their spay / n-
euter fees by 20 percent.

This is an excellent beginning
and I foresee other programs such
as this in the months ahead.

Animal-welfare agencies are
supported entirely by public con-
tributions which, at times, may re-
strict the activities of the agen-
cies.

However, public support of ani-
mal welfare in the greater Hous-
ton area has been and continues to

be excellent.

This generosity from the com-
munity enables animal-welfare or-
ganizations to provide numerous
services other than the operation
of a shelter. Services such as hu-
mane education, cruelty investiga-
tions, adoption counseling,
spay / neuter programs, pet-facili-
tated therapy, etc. are vital to the
success of any animal-welfare en-
deavor, and the citizens of this
area should take great pride in be-
ing an integral part of these activi-
ties.

Rather than establish govern-
ment-subsidized spay / neuter clin-
ics for the public, I prefer that our
lawmakers consider passing a law
which would make it mandatory
for all dogs and eats adopted from
any animal control or animal wel-
fare agency be spayed or neutered
prior to adoption or, in the case of
young pets, when the proper age is
attained.

Your reference of the Los Ange-
les spay / neuter program is cer—
tainly worthy of our discussion.

The program has been success-
ful and also expensive. It all de-
pends on how much involvement
the citizens of a community desire
from their government, and if
these same citizens are willing to
pay the increased costs.

Los Angeles experienced an ap-
proximate 40-percent decrease in
the number of animals handled
and about a 50—percent decrease in
animals euthanized over a 10-year
period. .

The fact that Los Angeles has a
tremendous humane education
program and a highly efficient ani-
mal control service also contribut-
ed to these significant decreases.

As mentioned earlier, the pro-
gram was costly as reports indi- ‘
cated the spay / neuter clnics oper-
ated with a known deficit of
approximately $100,000 each year
from spay / neutering fees alone,
and there was an enormous expen-
diture of public funds for city-sup-
plied building space, utilities and
staff.

There is a nominal fee for each
animal spayed or neutered -— it is
not free as some people have as-
sumed.

What has been learned from the
Los Angeles program can be sum-
marized by saying that spay-
ing / neutering more animals will
reduce the number euthanatized
and the number handled provided
the program is coupled with a
good educational program and an-
imal-control service.

/

y burdened.
your interest and

than they are alread
Thank you for
espec1ally your caring.

The Houston area definitely has. 1

a dog and cat overpopulation pro

lem.

and
end
n re-

s a veterinarian
Houston SPCA. s
at, 519 Studemont, Hous-

tte
AY.

no individually wri
ear each week in Top

Ya

Dr. Robert 0. Shannon i
es.) Answers app

executive director of the
your questions to Per 3

ion 77007. (Sorr
pt!

I
|
i

with cooperative ef-

forts from animal-control agen-
the problems can be licked

veterinary medicine pro-
without burdening taxpayers more

animal-welfare organizations

However,
cies,
and the
fession,

 




TAMPA TRIBUNE - February 15, 1986

Heart QI‘Otlp

with plan to ‘drown’ dogs

The Florida branch of the
American Heart Association has
received some calls from
supporters who have decided not
to volunteer or give money.

By BETTINITA HARRIS
Tribune Staff Writer

American Heart Association officials are afraid the
group’s image has been tarnished because it has been
linked with a research proposal that calis for the simu-
lated drowning of stray dogs. '

Officials are so concerned that a head honcho from
the group’s national office in Dallas flew into town
Friday for a press conference.

“The reason we are holding the news conference is
to try to set the record straight,” said Dr. Wallace
Frasher Jr., vice president of research program at the
heart association’s national center in Dallas.

Frasher criticized the media for reports that the
heart association already had invested money in the
project.

“There is no connection between the heart associa-
tion and this particular project,” Frasher said. “On the

other hand, we do not intend to be dissuaded from what
we think is a very appropriate way of investing our re-
search dollars from the review process we ordinarily
use.”

The press conference comes two days after a Uni-
versity of Florida’s Committee on the Care and Use of
Laboratory Animals approved a research project that
would simulate drowning in 22 dogs to test the effective-
ness of the Heimlich maneuver vs. mouth-to-mouth
resuscitation on near-drowning victims.

Animal rights activists demonstrated on UF‘s cam—
pus before the meeting and gave the committee peti~
tions signed by about. 900 people who condemned the ex-
periment.

Friday. Frasher said the heart association has en-
dorsed the proper and appropriate use of research ani-
mals since 1949.

He said the association two years ago adopted "new
and mare rigorous standards for proof that animals are
treated correctly" in research funded with heart associ-
ation dollars.

But he said the national office was “very concerned”

that people are starting to believe the heart association
condones drowning dogs.
Those beliefs could put a big hole in the company’s
money bag and cause a drop in volunteers, Frasher said.
The Florida branch office has received “a couple" of

calls from supporters who have decided not to voluteer

or give .money because of the contr
the prOJect, according to Dr. John
the research peer review commit

branch and a cardiologist who pra
burg.

oversy surrounding
Hoche, chairman of
tee for the Florida
ctices in St. Peters-

“There has been a lot of publicity," Hoche said. “I
don’t think there has been so much negative reaction.”
But that isn’t the case with Alice Fernandez, a

Tampa resident who has donated and collected money '

from her Lowry Park neighborhood for the heart associ-
ation.

“I’m appalled and I was shocked that the heart as-
sociation would support such a thing,” said Fernandez,
who has been a heart association volunteer for 10 years.
“I know that I can’t condone it and there’s no way I can
support them anymore. And I called them up (Wednes-

.day) and told them.” '

The research proposal is the brainchild of UP Col-
lege of Medicine professors Dr. Richard Melker and Dr.
Jerome Modell.

Melker wants to pump water into the lungs and stom-
achs of 22 anesthetized dogs to determine whether the
Heimlich maneuver, which clears the throat of obstruc-
tion, should be used in resuscitating drowning victims.

The experiment will not kill the animals, but all the

research animals will be destroyed at the experiment’s
conclusion in accordance with university policy.
_ The need for research in this area was prompted
during a heart association convention last summer. Dr.
Henry Heimlich, inventor of the maneuver, proposed
that his maneuver be performed prior to mouth-to-
mouth ventilation in the treatment of near—drowning vic-
tlms.

Heimlich since has written a scorching letter to the
UP committee calling the experiment cruel.

The association, which reviews its guidelines for car-

diopulmonary resuscitation every six years, delayed its
decision because there had not been conclusive re-
search in the area.

At a press conference Wednesday, Melker said he
had applied for an $18,000 grant from the heart associa-
tion. He said the proposal still must be approved by the
heart association’s peer review committee.

Heart association officials said it will be June before
Melker knows if his grant application has been accept-
ed.

Frasher said Melker’s application is one .of 80 appli-
cations the peer committee will review in March in
Tampa. '

The committee will reject one-half to two-thirds of
the applications, mostly because of money, Hoche said.
The total amount needed to fund all 80 projects is about
$5 million, but the heartassociation only has about $1.75
million to spend.

'Hoche said if Melker’s proposal passes the review
committee, it still must be approved by three other com-
mittees.

Frasher said the peer committee is comprised of
“expert scientists, all of whom are active in research
and experts in the content of research going on today.”

Raini Sequoya, founder and president of National
Animal Rights Inc., called the review committees “noth-
ing but a farce.”

“The researcher who applies today to have his proj-
ect passed by the committee will be sitting on the com-
mittee next year and will have to judge one of his
peers,” Sequoya said.

During a second press conference Friday, Sequoya
said he plans to ask the governor to immediately appoinp

Sequoya also wants aminal rights activists to be ap-

a panel to investigate the review committees.
pointed to the panel.

having a review

“I question the ethics involved in
committee that is comprised of researchers an

(1 doctors

of veterinary medicine who are pro research,” Sequoya
said. “I feel animal rights activists should have a seat on

these committees and allowed to give input.”

 

 




ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH - March 24, 1986

Dog Sperm Bank Aids Breeders

By Susan Seager
Of United Press International

LOS ANGELES

It boasts a Frozen Semen Newslet-
ter, a mobile lab for on-site sperm
collection and clients ranging from
police departments to little old ladies.

Yes, it’s a sperm bank, but the Ca-
nine Cryobank Inc. of West Los Ange-
les is a sperm bank of a different kind
-— it’s for dogs only. .

With sperm collected from more
than 500 dogs from across the nation,
Canine Cryobank is the largest sperm
bank for dogs in the West and among
the largest in the world. It’s one of
about a dozen that have sprouted up
in the United States since the Ameri-
can Kennel Club authorized in 1981
the registration of litters produced
from frozen semen.

Dr. Priscilla Stockner, the bank’s
' veterinarian and reproductive spe-
cialist, said the industry has grown
quickly in the face of rising costs of
shipping dogs cross-country and a de-
mand for top-notch gene pools.

“Often the dog you want as a sire is .

on the other side of the country, and
it’s very expensive to breed dogs
cross-country,” Stockner said. “It is
far cheaper to ship the sperm across
'the country for $60 than to ship a
Great Dane for $1,000.” '

Most of Stockner’s clients are pro-
fessional dog breeders or owners who
find it easier and less costly to breed
their expensive studs and bitches by
sperm collection and artificial
insemination.

By shipping frozen sperm instead
of the actual dog, breeders no longer
risk losing their dogs to inflight
deaths in airplane storage compart-
ments, a common fear among breed-
ers, Stockner said.

Stockner said her clinic, opened in
1981, also has a tougher screening
process for potential donors than

some breeders, a procedure that she
believes gives clients a greater guar-
antee of success than with normal
breeding.

Stockner checks a dog’s sperm
count, the quality of the sperm, and

whether the dog has prostate disease,

skin disorders or infection of the tes-
tes, all problems that may reduce the
potency of the sperm.

Officials also require X-rays of the

 

“It is far cheaper to
ship the sperm across
the country for $60
than to ship a Great
Dane for $1,000.”

dogs’ parents three generations back
to insure a low probability of genetic
hip disease.

“We’re not likely to miss a problem
with a dog, whereas a breeder might
not know about a problem,” Stockner
said. '

The fee for up to 10 sperm collec-
tions is $260, which includes a $75
annual storage fee.

The sperm bank has collected sam-
ples from about 200 California dogs
and from another 300 dogs that visit-
ed its six branches throughout the
nauon.

Stockner attributes much of her
success to an increased interest in
“work dogs.”

Among the bank’s clients are dogs
that help the hearing-impaired, dogs
that help the disabled by pulling their
wheelchairs or other activities, and
seeing-eye dogs for the blind.

About a dozen police departments
from around the state have also had
sperm taken from their police dogs in
the hope that the qualities that made
the dogs suited for police work will

M.

be passed on to their litters.

The service is not restricted to
blueblood only, however. About 10
percent of the bank’s clients are dog
owners who want to preserve their
favorite mutt for another generation.

“They come in and say, ‘I want a
piece of him back in my life,’ ” said
sperm bank founder and president

Carol Bardwick.

At the bank, located at the West
Los Angeles Veterinary Medical
Group, the sperm is collected from
male dogs brought in and matched up
to “teaser” dogs in heat that are rent-
ed to the clinic for $25.

The donor dogs apparently don’t
mind the process.

“One lady was bringing her dog
quite frequently and every time she
turned onto our street, the dog would
just go Crazy,” Bardwick said. “Once
they know where they are going,
they’re very enthusiastic.”

After the sperm is examined and
approved by Stockner, it is slowly fro-
zen to minus 196 degrees Celcius in
liquid nitrogen.

The sperm is then stored until a
suitable female dog is found. The
sperm can be stored for years —— of-
ten longer than the breeding life of
the dog -— and can be shipped cross-
country in its liquid nitrogen.

Stockner travels widely in the Unit-
ed States to publicize her efforts and
share her expertise, giving talks and
taking collections in her mobile lab.
She also rents a video on her tech-
niques for $25. ‘

She is also due to give a talk at an
international conference in Paris this
year, and has had a number of inqui-

« ries from European breeders asking

how to start up their own sperm
banks, according to her‘ Frozen Se-
men Newsletter and Directory.

“There is definitely an increased
interest from foreign buyers,” she
said.

NEW YORK TIMES - april 4, 1986

 

 

The ASPCA came
through by rescuing
555 of these hapless
animals from horrible
conditions in the
Bronx on March let.
They were fed,
groomed, and given
the best veterinary
care.

A?"

What they need now is a loving home. That’s where
you can help. If you can give even temporary foster
care to one of these lovable pets, please visit the
ASPCA’s Manhattan Adoption Center. Your love and
commitment are desperately needed to help nurture
these precious animals back into a caring world.

SPCA

;

THE AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRlFEIJTY T0 ANIMALS
ill East 92nd Street New York. NY. l()l.28 le-B‘O-"Win

ADOPTION/ FOSTER CARE HOURS: 11AM-7 PM

 

 




HOUSTON POST - March 28, 1986

Efforts to start

 

___ __.__.__.._. _.

l Britons Hop to ‘Help a Toad Across the Road’

ritain’s legendary animal

lovers have gone batty-—
and toady, too. Instead of their
bird feeders, some Britons are
hanging up bat boxes. Others
have responded to a national
PR campaign by spending
their evenings in the rain, es-
corting columns of toads
across busy roads. Conserva-
tionists have put tough bat
laws on the books: it’s a crime
for an unlicensed person to
kill, injure or even touch a bat.
There are exceptions, accord-
ing to the Nature Conservan-
cy Council. One can “tend a
disabled bat in order to release
it when it recovers.”

Who would want to tend a
bat? These days, plenty of
otherwise normal people-—
for example, the 5,000 sub-

 

 

" ’ BLAKPBRUCIE COLEMAN
Don’t tread on him: Protected

 

 

scribers to Bat News. “Over-
night we have become a na-
tion of Batmen,” wrote Daily
Express columnistJean Rook.

The laws make it a crime to
stop a bat from going home—
even if his home is your home.
Tony Hutson, the bat officer
of Britain’s Flora and Fauna
Preservation Society, pays
house calls on people who
have found bats in their at-

 

t';ToadS] 
migratory
crossing *
:fOf 1‘2 miles

Holy herpetocide, Batman! Brits campaign to get them home safely

 

52 NEWSWEEK : APRIL 7,1986

to

f

.7

max?
:1
I!

i’.’ 9

Pt

start a second wild ﬂock of the stately whoOping

.. {'rw:

.The whooping crane is North America’s tallest
bird, measuring about 5 feet tall. The flocknwas

never abundant, but before Europeans colo

continent it numbered about 1,

1
f

, Colo. (UPI) — A bold attem

MONTE VISTA

7i.
of whoopers fall.
crane has yet to succeed after 11 years.

another flock

MORRIS—ARDEA LON N LTD.

i tics. “Of those who want the
E bats out, at least 50 percent
change their minds when we
3 explain that they are gentle,
; sociable creatures of very
clean habits,” Hutson says.
“Another 25 percent agree to
wait until the end of the
summer before having them
moved.” But, Hutson adds
sadly, “the last 25 percent
have a complete prejudice
against bats, and somehow
they can’t seem to get over it.”
Knee ierk: Five persons have
been prosecuted under the
new bat—protection law, and
ignorance has been no de-
fense. Mark Edmondson, a
builder in Yorkshire, had
sprayed the rafters of a cot—
tage to get rid of woodworms.
Animal lovers complained of
batocide when as many as 50
of the ﬂying mammals died.
Hauled into court, Edmond-
son was confronted with evi-
dence that the attic ﬂoor in
the cottage was covered with
bat droppings. Builders who
see such telltales must con-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

sult the Nature Conservancy

Z Council before spraying. Ed-
; mondson pleaded that he
couldn’t tell a bat from a rat
E when it comes to what they

leave behind. But the judge I

ﬁned him more than $1,000.

‘ In the future, Edmondson
vowed, he’ll inspect every at—

tic on his hands and knees.

Some batphobes found the
case excessively eccentric,
even for Britain. Sniped writ-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

er Auberon Waugh: “If I so
much as sneeze in my cellar
and frighten a bat, I am liable
to be ﬁned at the rate of 1,000
pounds per bat frightened. If I
had the time, I would agitate
for a law to make it an impris-
onable offense for anyone to
succor or even smile at a bat.”
The toad lobby in Britain
hasn’t passed any laws yet
protecting the Bufo bufo, but
its national “Help a Toad
Across the Road” campaign is
in 'full swing for spring migra-
tions. Toad patrols gather at
200 roadsides around the
country, some marked with
ofﬁcial "Toad Crossing” signs.
Wearing raincoats and ga-
loshes—toads sally forth in
wet weather—the volunteers
use buckets and ﬂashlights to
help the toads safely across.
It’s a high-pressure job—par-
ticularly after 11 pm, says
herpetologist Tom Langton.
“That’s pub-closing time, and
lots of toads get squashed in
the rush home.”

Polishing the images of
toads and bats is the ﬁrst
step toward preserving them,
their supporters believe. "In
10 years’ time we’ll look back
on the lack of protection for
these sorts of vulnerable ani-
mals as a barbaric age,” says
Langton. Lots of Brits have
bats in the belfry—and many
think it’s a good idea to leave
them there.

NANCY COOPER with
HELEN GIBSON in London

 

 

 

l
i
.4

X

it“?

400 and was found

from the Atlantic seaboard to west of the Rockies. 1.

I

iidlifé
an all

mze

in 1937 to save the

ﬂock was gone by the early 19405.

experimen

islana

.By 1937, only 21 whoopers were known to ‘eiﬁst:
Fifteen of them wintered on Texas’ Gulf Coast, and
In 1975, the United States and Canada beg

The government began a drive
whooper, establishing the Aransas National

the other six were in southwestern Louisianaa‘a'l‘hé
Refuge, and the flock now numbers 96.

Lou

ﬂock

of wild whoopers. Heading the program was. Dr,

Rod Dre

t to establish a second, independent

',

i

’5 plan was to take eggs from the whoop?

é
es’ nests in Canada (they usually my two"-

who was an expert on the whoopers’ cousin,. the

sandhill crane.

the

effort. The sandhills have accepted the whooper
CthkS as their own. But the ultimate goal of the

ruur
‘l
A
U

ty of Idah
sses m

mversi
and much of it is over wild

, a biologist at the U

wien
wien

Dre

mg cran
Since 1975, there have been some succe

but normally only one survives) and place them i"
the nests of greater sandhill cranes at Grays Lake,

Idaho. The sandhills, which also have made a bic-
logical comeback, migrate only half the distance

whooping cranes do,
country.

t -— to establish a breeding population of
whoopers —— has not been realized. “

experimen
The whoopers have had a very high mortality

rate.

 




Spay—Neuter month a success,

Many, many unwanted animals
must be put to sleep each year

 

Dear Readers:
Many of you have
inquired about the
recent Spay-Neuter
month (February)
as to whether it was
successful or not.

~ Yes, it was success— ‘fzji-g}:-I;>'_-_gb-;:

ful considering that
participating veteri-
nary hospitals and
local animal welfare organizations
report that approximately 1,000
dogs and cats were surgically ster-
ilized. Yes, it was successful con-
sidering that this was only the sec-
ond year for such a program and
the number of animals spayed or
neutered was about double those of
the previous year. This indicates
that the public is getting “the mes—
sage” and, hopefully, the program
will continue to grow in numbers
each year. No, it was not success-
ful considering the thousands of
fertile animals in this area that
should be spayed or neutered.

The Society of Humane Associa-
tions for Resources and Education
(SHARE), an organization com-
posed of representatives from area
animal welfare / control groups
and the Harris County Veterinary
Medical Association, is to be com-
mended for sponsoring this annual
drive to alert the public about the
importance of controlling the over-
population of dogs and cats.

In conjunction with the pro-
gram, participating veterinary
hospitals provided spaying and
neutering at a 20 percent discount
with special coupons published in
The Post each week during Febru-

‘ “rub meause spay-neuter
history for 1986 doesn’t
. , . ‘ hat pet owners should for-
get to have their pets spayed or
neutered. 7

This is a very important mea-
sure toward correcting the tre-
mendous problems of dog and cat
overpopulation. Many people tell
; us: “Oh, that’s your problem or it
._ is somebody elses problem, but not
' mine.” How wrong they are!
Folks, it’s everybody’s problem
' and until everybody accepts that
fact, we’ll continue to have thou-
sands of dogs and cats killed each
year because too many people are
negligent, reluctant, or cannot af-
ford the surgery fee (so they say)
to have their pet spayed or neu-
tered.

Soon we will be in the “kitten”

season and there will be thousands

Dr- Robert 0.- «4—. .
Shannon , '

of kittens of all ages, sizes, colors
and conditions delivered to animal
welfare agencies so that they can
be placed in good homes. Unfortu-
nately, it’s not that simple as the
great majority of these kittens will
be humanely destroyed because
there’s not enough “quality”
homes for them to go into. _

Remember, everyone loves a
cute little ball of fur that’s called
“kitten”; however, NOT everyone
loves an adult catvand that is the
root of the problem. Kittens are
distributed throughout neighbor-
hoods . . . FREE KITTENS . . .the
signs will be scattered throughout
every subdivision. These kittens
grow up to be cats and, unless
spayed or neutered, their offspring
will be the problems of 1987 or
sooner.

Spaying or neutering is not the
total answer to controlling dog and
cat overpopulation, but it is a ma-
jor part of it. An outstanding ar-
ticle appeared in the fall 1985 issue
of Gentle Journal which is pub-
lished by the Humane Society of
Missouri in St. Louis, M0. The arti-
cle is entitled “How Do We
Choose?” and I would like to share
it with you.

HOW DO WE CHOOSE?

We are asked many times,
“How do we choose which animals
to put to sleep, which animals will
live?” This is a question asked
even by those of us engaged in ani-
mal welfare work. It is also one of

‘ the hardest parts of our jobs, mak-

ing this decision. Choosing who
will live and who will die. This is a
decision we must make every day.

You wake in the morning know-
ing what is waiting for you at the
shelter, the humble brown female
that you have tried so hard to find
a home for. Her eyes haunt you as
you get dressed and have your
cups of coffee before you lea ve
home. .

You walk up and down the halls.
You talk to the dogs and ca ts, pat
them on the head as you read the
cards. Can’t keep. Don’t want. The

- love and trust you. Some never

 

but . . . #
not enough

list of reasons is the same across
the country. .

You look to see who’s ea t1ng,
who is listless. They are glad to
see you, they jump Up and down,
barking or meowing. You have be-
come their-person now, in just a

77/5
7%» s 7"

few days. They wag their tails or
rub their fur on your arm, they

trust, they sit in the back of the
pen, the white of their eyes show in
fear; they tremble as you ap— 7 m .-
roach. The have never known a i , 9 .. "

p y 3 X/ {(13
kind pat or the caring word spo-
ken. We end their suffering.

Pure-bred animals are easy to
place. The Benji looking dog or the
all white long-haired cat are also
tops on everybody ’5 list. The plain
brown female dog, the beat-up

tomcat, the short haired mixed
breed female dog, the brindle-look-
ing female cat — we see them all,
including these which have no fu-
ture. They are doomed to a life of
never being wanted by anyone.
These pets die in our arms know-
ing we loved them anyway.

We walk to the next holding pen
where there are two puppies play-
ing. They pay little attention to us,
they are ha ving so much fun. We
notice they ha ve torn up another
feed bowl. We pass to the next run.
The old hound left outside in the
cage sits in the back of the run re-
membering the days of running
through the woods. He is now too
old to run, he has mange, his coat
looks terrible, hestands, tail be-
tween his legs, wagging just a lit-
tle. .

We carry him to the clinic and
put him on the table. We tell him
it’s okay. One of us holds his head
and scratches his droopy ear. The
other person injects the solution
into his vein, he dies, painlessly, at
last in peace. We walk back into
the shelter, walking, thinking,
looking, the eyes watch us. We
come to the dog with the sad eyes.
We have tried hard to find her a
home. She was brought in because
she was in hea t, but not soon
enough. We lift her carefully. Her
stomach is full of unborns. We take
her to the clinic. She sits on the ta-
ble, so happy someone is petting
her. She licks my hand as she goes
to sleep. The process is repeated

 




many times. We finish, we get our
cups of coffee, and go sit in the of-
fice. ‘

There is anger, frustration, sad-
ness and grief. A lady comes in
with a box of kittens, lugging the
mother cat in an old pillow case.
The fear in the mother cat’s eyes
is heartbreaking. The lady asks,
“Can you find a home for them ?”
We explain for the thousandth
time, “It is hard to find homes for
mother cats with seven kittens.”
NO, she won ’t have her spayed;
they will get a boy cat next time.
We carry her to the back, make a
temporary bed for her babies. She
curls around them, trying to pro-
tect her young.

We know and understand her
fear. If people would have their
pets spayed or neutered, we could
begin to solve this tragedy of the
unwanted and unloved. We could
stop this useless slaughter of ani-
mals. We wouldn’t have to make
these heartbreaking decisions ev-
ery day.

Dr. Robert 0. Shannon is a veterinarian and
executive director of the Houston SPCA. Send
your questions to Pet set, 519 Studemont, Hous-
ton 77007. (Sorry, no individually written re-
plies.) Answers appear each week in TODAY.

 

PET PEEVES ~

Are We Becoming an Animal Welfare State?

People who don't like public

, welfare programs may think New

Jersey is really going to the dogs
when they ponder one of the
state’s newest public assistance
plans.

It might be described as pet
welfare. State subsidies are avail-
able for poor people in the Gar-
den State who want to have their
dogs or cats spayed or neutered.
Regardless of which surgical
procedure they choose, they pay
only $10. The state picks up
most of the remaining cost,
which can be considerable. Offi-

 

cials note that neutering a cat of-
ten costs as much as 360 and
spaying a large dog might bring
a $125 bill from the veterinarian.
The subsidy program, avail-
able only to poor pet owners, is
run by the state Department of
Health, which says it wants to re-
duce the number of stray animals
roaming and dirtying the streets
of New Jersey. The department
notes that the money is, in the
long run, spent wisely. Officials
say that a few years ago, for ex-
ample, various animal control
agencies picked up nearly

 

200,000 strays at a cost of about
$11 million.

The Health Department also
says pet owners on public assist-
ance programs ought to consider
spaying and neutering their dogs
and cats to cut down on other
likely veterinary bills.

Keeping the population of
dogs and cats down, the depart-
ment says, reduces the risk of
disease as well as various inju-
ries “resulting from fights or ac~
cidents that occur when male
pets roam in search of females.”

—H.F.

 

NewJersey Monthly /’ April 1986

THE HOUSTON CHRONICLE - April 4, 1986

”\H'ﬁ-vraix-(usb.

Lucky to be alive

Recuperating from surgery to repair damage
done by a Houston police officer’s bullet, Jo-Jo is
held by veterinarian Dr. Mark Gochenour, left, and
surgeon Dr. Skip Fix. Jo-Jo was shot last week

 

John Everett / Chronicle

when the dog bit the officer as he attempted to
rouse its sleeping mistress from a car. Fix re--
moved bullet fragments from Jo-Jo’s nasal pas-
sage and lower jaw during an operation Monday.

 




BOSTON MAGAZINE - April 1986

to Run a Z00?

Boston’s zoos are the nation ’8 worst, a civic disgrace and
a bureaucratic nightmare.

BY ART JAHNKE

After several months in ofﬁce, Metropoli-
tan District Commission head William I.
Geary ﬁgured out who really ran Boston’s
zoos. He did. Geary could hardly wait to
tell the governor. Now maybe Geary could
do something about the area’s crummy
zoos. He could get rid of those high-society
do-gooders on the board of the Boston Zoo-
logical Society and find someone who could
run a 200 that Boston could be proud of.
There had to be dozens of professionals
who would leap at the chance to manage a
zoo in the Athens of America. It would be a
dream job.

Of course, given the fact that the area’s
zoos were generally considered to be the
worst in the country, the job could also be a
nightmare. This is the story of the search for
the rara avis who could run Boston’s zoos.

IRST, THE GOOD NEWS.

Sitting at an octagonal oak
table at a meeting of the trust-
ees of the Boston Zoological
Society (BZS), Sanford
“Sandy” Elsass, his red hair
curling ﬂamboyantly over his
collar, reports that after a deﬁ-

cit of $236,000 and change in 1984, the
BZS is back in the black.

Now the bad news.

“I got a call from the New World Bank,”
says a worried Betty Trammell, BZS admin-
istrative and ﬁnancial director. “They want-
ed to know where the $6,000 they gave us
was.”

“And I got a call from Larry Collins at the
Globe asking about the $600,000 matching
grant from the Hayden Foundation,” says
real estate mogul Robert Beal.

Now that the BZS has money in the

 

bank, the trustees will have to explain to
their donors what they’re doing with it.

“All of the donors have been written to,”
Emily “Paddy” Wade assures the board.
“They have all given consent to hold the
money in escrow until our future is decid-
ed.”

Her long gray hair swept up in a tidy bun,
Wade looks the very model of a Yankee ma-
triarch. And for the past 15 years as a BZS
trustee, she has been a distant matron to all
the beasts that inhabit Boston’s two zoos——
the Franklin Park Zoo, in Dorchester, and
the Walter D. Stone Memorial Zoo, in
Stoneham. Tonight Wade, perfectly poised,
is sitting on one of the velvet-upholstered
chairs in this thirty-ﬁfth-ﬂoor conference
room at One Federal Street that looks out
upon the lights of Boston Harbor.

The other trustees nod in deference to
Wade. Most have come straight to this
meeting from ofﬁces at similar heights,
with similarly precious views of Boston. Sil-
ver-haired Richard W. Bland II, the BZS’s
president, whose real estate management
company runs the Devonshire, chairs the
meeting. I. Squire Iunger, a partner at the
Boston ofﬁce of the Arthur Andersen &
Company accounting ﬁrm, is wearing a
conservatively cut navy blue suit. Charles
Desmond, vice chancellor of student affairs
at UMass/Boston, is sharp in a double-
breasted brown suit and tooled cowboy
boots. Elma Lewis, founder of the Elma
Lewis School of Fine Arts, arrives late and
sits down next to bearded, balding board
chairman Franklin Loew, dean of Tufts
University School of Veterinary Medicine.
Newell Cook, a former Kevin White protege
who has graduated to a vice presidency at
the Cabot, Cabot, and Forbes land develop-

l/f jinn WW %

a few million dollars from the state. After a
couple of years. the management team
would turn the zoos over to a long-term

.. manager. Maybe the BZS. Maybe not. That
~ would depend on what the BZS had to of—

Anybody Want

fer. In any case, Geary told the group. the
BZS would no longer be calling the shots.
On Friday messages from worried BZS
board members piled up on Bland’s desk. A
special afternoon meeting was called to dis-
cuss the society’s future. or lack of one.
“We think we walked away from the
meeting [with Geary] with a significant
change for the better,” says Bland. biting
the bullet. “We said we’d be happy to work
with Philly. We’d be happy to work with
anyone. I think what we're going to see is
much stronger organization evolving from
the BZS. I think we'll see a name change

and probably some kind of combination of

the Philly group. the BZS. and a university.
Things have got to change. and at this point

\ any change is change for the better."

Whoever does call the shots will prob-
ably not do so alone. Governor Dukakis has
already met with Tufts president lean
Mayer in an attempt to bring a local univer-
sity into the managing act. And although
Commissioner Geary and key Beacon Hill
powers agree that Bill Donaldson's crew
from Philly is the most qualiﬁed interested
party, it is hardly a shoo-in to get the job,
After all. this is state business. and state law
requires that all such management con-
tracts be sent out for competitive bids.
which means another RFP. which means at
least another 90 days, which means another
summer of decline for the Franklin Park
and Walter D. Stone Memorial zoos. D

 

 

ment company, sits beside Elsass, the ath-
letic senior vice president from Maclntyre.
Fay and Thayer Insurance Agency.

The corporate ﬁrepower, the social con-
science, the sheer grace collected in this
chamber in the law ofﬁces of Bowker.
Elmes, Perkins, Mecsas & Gerrard rival
that of any other board of trustees in New
England. The board has have come to dis-
cuss the future of the BZS and the future of
the 937 caged animals in its charge.

 




A lonely zebra at home on the range at the Franklin Park Zoo.

MDC commissioner William Geary has
been scouring the country to ﬁnd some-
one—anyone but the BZS—to run the
Franklin Park and Walter D. Stone zoos,
widely recognized as two of the worst-man-
aged zoos in the country.

Franklin Loew reports that Sasha, the fe-
male Siberian tiger, has rejected her father.
Boris. She turned on him as soon as she
went out of heat, making it impossible to
display them in the same area. On a happier
note, the chairman reports that Sam and
Gigi, two recently paired gorillas, are fast
becoming an item.

The discussion moves on to “new busi-
ness,” which at this meeting means holding
on to the old business. Since last September

BEYOND THE TOWERING CONCRETE-AND-IRON
gate of the Franklin Park Zoo lies a ﬁeld of
brown grass that ends in a pile of rubble—
the detritus of the as yet unﬁnished tropical

forest pavilion construction, which has
been on the planning boards since 1972. To
the left of the field is the two-year-old Chil-
dren’s Zoo, a tidy three-acre complex of
barns, pens, a reptile house, and an educa-
tional resource center. On this chilly week-
day morning, a group of schoolchildren is
studying exotic toads in a green terrarium.
Outside the reptile house, a mother shows
her two children the prairie dogs poking
their heads out of tunnels. The schoolchil~

 




dren and this small family have the zoo to
themselves.

To the right of the ﬁeld, a path winds up
a small hill past 13 small chain-link pens.
where the 200’s deer and antelope don’t
play. Instead they huddle beneath oak trees.
sniffing the muddy ground for something to
munch, occasionally gazing at the trafﬁc on
Blue Hill Avenue.

Today there are eight species of what is
called hoofed stock doing time in the hilltop
pens, including wildebeest, bongo antelope,
and mouflon sheep. There are no visitors.
And there is no maintenance crew to take
care of a small river of water that gushes
out of the men’s room and down the hill. It
has been four years since the US Depart-
ment of Agriculture urged the closing of the
antelope house because rainwater was seep-
ing into the room that housed the main
electrical transformer for the range area.

From the “grazing area,” a path leads
visitors to Bird’s World, where more than
100 species of exotic birds can be seen in an
indoor/outdoor aviary. Their aviaries are
the pride of the Franklin Park and Stone
2005. In 1980 curator of birds Bob Wilson
succeeded in breeding hammerhead storks
in captivity for the ﬁrst time in North Amer-
ica, and the Stone Zoo is one of few zoos
that breed king penguins.

But when compared with the achieve-
ments of zoos in other major cities, Bos-

122 April 1986

 

ton’s zoological efforts are meager at best.
Even BZS chairman Franklin Loew ac-
knowledges that at Franklin Park “there
really isn’t much attraction beyond the
Children’s Zoo.

“Another problem,” says Loew, “is that
the Franklin Park Zoo is perceived as being
in a dangerous part of town, although I visit
the Franklin Park neighborhood often, and
I think it’s a ﬁne area. There’s also the
problem with the lack of parking. The com-
bination of these factors makes people
think of the zoo as a place that’s difﬁcult to
get to, difﬁcult to visit, and as a place where
there really isn’t that much to See when they

3 "‘\..'"f

Zoo

Bronx Zoo

Brookﬁeld Zoo (Chicago)
Detroit Zoo

Los Angeles Zoo
Louisville Zoo
Milwaukee Zoo

St. Louis Zoo

San Diego Zoo

 

' t g V)_‘ ‘ _ > . .- . . . g , I“
. "Ha " t A ' A ‘ A‘

A Ulifords came on the inside n"'r’sa.+¢

 

Franklin Park and Stone zoos (Boston)

y
.\

x

get there.”

“It would take me three weeks to tell you
what’s wrong with the Franklin Park Zoo."
says Roxbury community activist and BZS
board member Elma Lewis. “One thing I
don’t have to tell you is that the neighbor-
hood has changed from white to black and
that when that happened the money
stopped coming into that part of town.”

“Right now Boston would probably take
the ‘Worst Zoo’ award," says George Rabb,
director of Chicago’s Brookﬁeld Zoo and
one of a panel of ﬁve nationally recognized
zoo experts who met in Boston last Novem-
ber to discuss the needs of Boston’s zoos. “l f

1986 200 BUDGETS

Budget
$2,500,000 (approx)
$18,000,000 tapprox.)
$16,022,000
$7,875,607
$12,600,000
$2,494,840
$8,000,000 (approx)
$9,370,000
$32,000,000 (approx)

SOURCES: MDC; Bronx Zoo: American Association of Zoological Parks and Aquariums (AAZPA); Detroit Zoe; AAZPA; Lowsvitle 200. Milwaukee

200; St Lou's Zoo; San Diego Zoo.

—Nancy Seufert

 




they can’t solve the'r bl ,th ho ld “7. .. - r. .

emeritus of the San Diego Zoo and Wild
Animal Farm, and anOther member of the
panel, “there is very little to be found in

i * >10 éngﬂﬂdi 1‘” f

just close down.”
“Frankly.” says Charles Bieler, director

Franklin Park that makes it worth being
called a zoo.”

Neither the Stone Zoo nor the Franklin
Park Zoo is accredited by the American As-
sociation of Zoological Parks and Aquar-
iums (AAZPA), which has accredited the
97 zoos nationwide that it believes meet the

“minimum standards required to operate a
facility in a professional manner.” David
Zucconi, chairman of the AAZPA accredi- j“
tation commission, says that the precise 7
reasons the Boston zoos haven’t been ap- .{
proved are conﬁdential, but he explains

is very/wk

that “no zoo can be accredited until it has

had a director for at least six months.” The
BZS has not had a director since December
q 1985, when Lawrence E. Wickline resigned
because he was frustrated both by the

BZS’s lack of direction and by the political
inﬁghting among the board of trustees.

In 1983 a report by the Massachusetts
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Ani-
mals (MSPCA) blasted the care and hous-
ing of animals at both zoos. The report in-
cluded an MSPCA investigation into eight
animal deaths that, it concluded, might
have been avoided if the animals had re-
ceived better care. The report also listed 20
cases of overcrowded or otherwise inad-
equate housing. The MSPCA report further
charged that the “zoo administration has
consistently maintained more diverse ani-
mals than it could possibly hope to humane-
ly and properly maintain. . . . The evidence
of animal suffering revealed through our in-
vestigation serves to overwhelmingly sup-
port our contention that . . . these have in-
deed been inhumane zoos.”

Karen Deutschmann, a research associ-
ate in the MSPCA’s Department of Animal
Welfare Issues, reports that in the last two
years “the situation at both zoos has im-
proved immensely, but the zoos still have a
long way to go. Things have not gone from
poor to optimum by any measure.”

HIS YEAR MARKS THE HUNDREDTH-

anniversary celebration of the

founding of Franklin Park, which as

designed by Frederick Law Olmsted

was to include an exhibition of na-
tive animals. (The park was actually found-
ed in 1885, but 1986 has been designated
the ofﬁcial anniversary year.) But by the
time the 70-acre Franklin Park Zoo opened
in 1912, it was obvious that the Boston
Park Department had forsaken the idea of a
native-animal exhibit for a far grander plan:
four animal houses and two dozen pens to
display a collection of exotic creatures. That
collection took more than 20 years to as—
semble, but by the thirties, thousands of
visitors a year were gazing at such animals

 

as monkeys, elephants, camels, lions, and

zebras. And although those were hard times
for the animals-Lsome of them were al—
lowed to die of starvation and others were
terrorized by vandals—the thirties were in
some ways the best of times for the 200. A
response by the BZS to the 1983 MSPCA
report confessed as much: “A program of
deferred maintenance began in the early
19405 and continued until 1970. After
three decades, the condition of the 200 had
become abysmal.”

In 1969 a special commission cochaired
by then Brookline state rep Michael Duka-
kis released a report that slammed “deplor-
able conditions” at the Franklin Park Zoo,
and recommended that the MDC ﬁnd a
qualiﬁed private operator to accept com-
plete responsibility for both zoos. Dukakis’s
commission also recommended a complete
renovation of the Franklin Park Zoo. Today,
nearly 17 years later, neither of those rec.-
ommendations has been implemented, and

Michael Dukakis, now governor of the

commonwealth, is still trying to ﬁnd some-
one who can run the Franklin Park and
Stone zoos. (The Walter D. Stone Memorial
Zoo, originally named the Fells Zoo, came
under MDC control in 1958.)

In 1970 the MDC did farm out some of
the management duties at both zoos to the
Boston Zoological Society, then a six-year-
old, nonproﬁt, tax-exempt volunteer group
that had been helping to take care of the old
Children’s Zoo. But the MDC did not en-
tirely relinquish its zoological responsibil-
ities, although that fact became increasingly
obscure as time passed. To this day the
MDC owns both zoos and employs a full-
time 200 staff of 64 to maintain the grounds
and take care of the animals; the BZS em-
ploys a full-time staff of 20 to maintain the
Children’s Zoo, which includes running the
concessions, handling some animal care,
operating educational and research volun—

 

teer programs, performing administrative
duties, and overseeing marketing and devel-

' opment. And at least one person has

worked for both the MDC and the BZS:
Richard Naegeli, the zoo director who was

hired as an MDC employee in 1970 and

was also paid a consultant fee by the BZS

- through 1983, until the illegality of that ar-

; Mitt/2'” PM _ ‘

f max mm ”
itayon‘é

_ éez'tzg cal/ed
a zoo. ” ’

rangement was pointed out by MDC com-
missioner Geary.

Boston’s two zoos survive on less than $3
million a year, an amount that the BZS con-
siders “woefully inadequate.” Last year the
MDC spent $1.8 million to maintain the
two zoos and feed the animals, and it paid
another $300,000 to the BZS for its man-
agement services. The BZS contributed
about $900,000 more, which it acquired
through fund-raising efforts and conces-
sions and admissions at the Stone Zoo.

The MDC/BZS arrangement has proved
to be an unfortunate marriage of opposites,
in which a state agency that has long been a

' repository for blue-collar patronage jobs

has been wed to Boston high society. From
the outset the relationship between the
MDC and the BZS has been plagued by bu-
reaucratic squabbling and blurred lines of
authority that have kept administrators on
both sides guessing about which agency is
responsible for what. BZS president Rich-
ard Bland claims, for example, that more
than half the animals in the zoos belong to
the BZS and the rest belong to the MDC,
although he is not sure which animals be-
long to which group. Commissioner Geary,
on the other hand, insists that the entire
menagerie belongs to his agency.

For 16 years, each party pointed the ﬁn-
ger at the other for the abundant shortcom-
ings of the zoos. The BZS blamed the MDC
for its failure to provide adequate funding;
the MDC blamed the BZS for its lack of
expertise. Both sides blamed each other for
a lack of vision. Ultimately, the MDC and
the BZS both wanted the same thing: a
good zoo run by one capable agency. But
they disagreed about who that manager
should be. The BZS wanted another shot at.
it. The MDC wanted the BZS out.

HE METROPOLITAN DISTRICT COMMIS-

sion has more than enough to worry

about without the care and feeding

of creatures like the Abyssinian

ground hombill. A quick look at the

MDC’s books puts the zoo story in sad per-

spective: this year, out of a total budget of

more than $75 million, the MDC will spend
only about $2 million on the zoos.

“My children,” says Geary, shedding his

suit jacket and settling into a couch in his

ofﬁce at MDC headquarters, “have been to

the Science Museum and to the New Eng-
land Aquarium two or three times during
the course of their school years as part of
their'school trips. None of them have ever
been to the 200 except when we took them.
(Continued on page 168)

 




 

 

ZOO

(Continued from page 123)

I think everybody has been waiting and
waiting, hoping and praying, for the revival
of the zoos. We’re a great cultural and edu-
cational mecca. We’ve got everything going
for us, great institutions with national re-
nown. But we’ve got crummy zoos.

“The problem that has existed for the
past 16 years has been the bifurcated struc-
ture,” explains Geary. “It’s been the worst
of both worlds. The BZS has some limited
jurisdiction, and the MDC has retained the
bulk of the responsibility. I thought the
BZS ran the zoos. I thought Rich Naegeli
was a BZS employee, and lo and behold,
after months of rummaging around and
ﬁnding things out, I realized that no, they
don ’t run the zoos. As a matter of fact, it’s a
violation of state law for a consultant [the
BZS] to direct a state employee. And the
govemor—who was involved with the zoos
as a legislator—thought that when the BZS
took over the zoos, they took it all over. He
was as surprised as l was.

“The problem is that we’ve had two lines
of communication, which were really no
lines of communication,” says Geary. “You
had wonderfully well motivated, well inten-
tioned, and very renowned people on the
BZS board. So here is the commonwealth,
the legislature, the governor, and even the
commissioner of this agency saying, well,
don’t worry, the zoos will be okay; BZS is
. taking care of them. I’m familiar with the
dynamics of the board of directors, and I
know that each one of those people has a
business to run. They shouldn’t be involved
in the level of detail that they get involved
in. Their board meetings go on for three or
four hours. The ﬁrst board meeting I went
to went on for three hours. I said, there’s
something wrong here.”

BZS president Richard Bland’s business
is housing people, not animals, and well-
heeled people at that. His Richard Bland
Company, a real estate management and in-
vestment ﬁrm, is responsible for leasing of-
ﬁce space and apartments at the new 42-
story Devonshire, where apartments rent
for as much as $4,000 a month.

“Very few of the big institutions have full~
time boards.” says the soft-spoken Bland in
response to Geary’s charge that the BZS
board has too many conflicting demands on
its time. “You could say the same thing
about the aquarium or the symphony or the
Museum of Fine Arts."

But it was enough of a problem to
persuade Lawrence Wickline, the society’s
last executive director, that he’d be better
off rebuilding his barn in Plaistow, New
Hampshire, than trying to restructure the
BZS.

“The entire board was made up of volun-
teers who were in charge of the administra-
tion, of fund—raising, of setting policy,” says
Wickline. “You cannot have those people
running amok in operations. I felt that the
zoo society should rewrite its bylaws to spell
out clearly the role of its trustees and the

 

 

 

 

role of its paid professional staff. I submit-
ted my resignation to the president saying
that if they would rewrite the bylaws I
would stay to see that process through. I
was simply told no.”

“It’s true that we don’t have a very hierar-
chical structure,” responds Bland, “but I
don’t think that kind of structure is feasible
here because of the political nature of the
board, and I don’t think it’s any different
from other boards. My wife is the president
of the Newport Art Museum and Associ-
ation, and I know it’s the same there.”

Wickline says that when he took over in
Iuly 1984 he found that the society had
been “spending, spending, spending with-
out looking at the books. And they weren’t
doing any fund-raising. By the end of the
year, the BZS was deep in the hole.”

Wickline says that, in addition, “the cur-
rent arrangement with the MDC is just not
workable. The divided responsibility has al-
ways made it very difﬁcult both for long-
range planning and for managing the day-
to-day operations. There was never any one
organization that was totally responsible.”

NE RATHER SIGNIFICANT ISSUE THAT j

the BZS board of trustees could not
agree upon, says Wickline, was its
own ability to run the zoos. When
MDC commissioner Geary went
public in March 1984 about his intention to

look around for a new manager for the
zoos, the BZS board began debating an ap-
propriate response. Some board members
thought that the BZS had no real competi-
tion. Others worried that another zoologi-
cal society, perhaps any zoological society,
could beat out the BZS. Still others believed
that the zoos should be run by someone else
and suggested that the state create an au-
thority to take on the job.

By the spring of 1985 it became clear to
the BZS that Geary was proceeding with
his plan to ﬁle for bureaucratic divorce. In
the previous months, Geary had visited
zoos in Baltimore, New York, Philadelphia,
and Washington, DC, to learn the secrets
to running a good zoo. By the end of Au-

gust, Geary had begun soliciting suitors to .
replace the BZS. To get the word out to the ;

right people in accordance with state law,
the MDC bought ads in daily newspapers in
cities with exceptionally good zoos. During
the ﬁrst week of September, Geary’s ads

ran in the Chicago Tribune, the St. Louis ~

Post-Dispatch, the San Diego Union, and
the Washington Post. The Wall Street [our-
nal and the AAZPA monthly newsletter

‘ also carried Geary’s plea. And in addition to

conducting the legally required ad cam-
paign, Geary and his executive assistant for
operations, Michael Byrne, telephoned the
directors of several major zoos to solicit
their advice.

The MDC received 16 responses, 14 of
them from consultants who, in Geary’s
words, “were not interested in running zoos
but ﬁgured they could cut in on a piece of the
action.” The two nonproﬁt zoological organi-
zations that responded were the Philadelphia
Zoo—whose executive director and presi-
dent, BilI Donaldson, had seen the ad in the
Wall Street loumal—and the BZS.

 

 

All 16 respondents were then sent what
is known in state government as an RFP—a
request for proposals—“for the Manage-
ment. Development and Use of the Franklin
Park and Stone Memorial Zoos." The 95-
page RFP stipulated that 15 copies of each
proposal be delivered to the MDC office on
or before January 10. 1986. Geary sat back
and waited.

To improve its chances of winning a com-

: petitive bidding contest. BZS hired Eco-

nomics Research AssociatestERA). a Cam-
brldge-based consulting company with

1 years of zoo experience. ERA had surveyed
operating and management problems at

many zoos. including those in Cincinnati.
Milwaukee. Chicago. San Diego. and the

‘ Bronx, as well as at the Franklin Park Zoo.

Way back in 1977, a BZS-funded study
by ERA vice president Francis X. Mahady
had predicted that by 1982 annual atten-
dance at the Franklin Park Zoo would be
somewhere between 775,000 and 850.000.
contingent upon the completion of an ex-

panded parking area, two all-weather pavil-
ions to be inhabited by exotic African fauna.
a new Children‘s Zoo, 3 fomial garden. and
an expanded range area.

In 1983 the BZS had again hired ERA.
this time to draw up a ﬁve-year financial
projection for both zoos, and Frank Ma-
hady took another shot at attendance pre-
dictions. This time he projected that atten-
dance at the Franklin Park Zoo would
“range between 475,000—575,000 visitors
per year, with 525,000 the likely typical
year over the 1984—88 period.” That pro-
jection assumed, Mahady wrote, the com-
pletion of the new tropical forest pavilion,
and an improvement in promotional and se-
curity measures at the zoo.

Last fall Mahady assembled what he
called a blue-ribbon panel of zoological ex-
perts: Charles Bieler, director emeritus of
the San Diego Zoo and Wild Animal Park:
William Conway, executive director of the
New York Zoological Society; Palmer
Krantz. director of the Riverbanks Zoo. in
Columbia. South Carolina; lohn Prescott,
director of the New England Aquarium;
and George Rabb. director of Chicago's
Brookﬁeld Zoo. The panel met in Boston
on November 6 to discuss a transfer of the
Operation of the two zoos from the MDC to
the BZS.

A few days later, Mahady reported the
experts' “consensus observations” in a
memo to the BZS. And Mahady, even
though he had spent nearly a decade study-
ing the problems of Boston's zoos. had nev-

1 er penned such a critical note.

The memo hit the familiar themes of
managerial shortcomings. the “woefully in-

‘ adequate" funding and stafﬁng of the BZS.

‘ and the unworkable marriage of the BZS

 

and the MDC. It also warned that if the
Franklin Park Zoo stayed its present course.
it would probably lose more money than
any other zoo in the country.

“Perhaps most importantly," Mahady's
memo noted. "the directors cited the lack of
a compelling vision or mission [Mahady’s
italics]. . .. Such a ‘vision’ is considered
crucial to achieve adequate philanthropic
and broad public support. as well as credi-
bility within the zoological profession."

 




What the blue-ribbon panel was essen-
tially saying in response to the BZS ques-
tion of how best to negotiate a management
contract with the MDC was that as the
board was then constituted, it was just not
up to the job.

Today, sitting in his Harvard Square of-

ﬁce, Mahady guesses that somewhere be-

tween 100,000 and 150,000 people visit
the Franklin Park Zoo each year. (As there
are no turnstiles at the zoo, nobody has ex-
act ﬁgures.) The tropical forest pavilion is a
hollow shell of concrete and ﬁberglass;

nothing has been done to expand the park- .

ing area; and ofﬁcials at the BZS and the
MDC acknowledge that a promotional
push for Franklin Park would be “prema-
ture” because there’s nothing to promote.

“It’s a shame,” says Mahady. “I grew up
in Dorchester and used to go to Franklin
Park all the time. My grandmother always
kept a picture on her mantel of me standing
in front of the gates to Franklin Park in a
little white suit. Professional interest aside, I
really would like to see us build a ﬁrst-rate
zoological park, but there is very little to
generate revenue from visitors. It doesn’t
have the depth or breadth of attractions.
There is some question among zoologists as
to whether it [Franklin Park Zoo] should
even be called a 200.”

Y THE END OF DECEMBER 1985. NOT
one of the initial respondents had
submitted a proposal to run Bos-
ton’s ailing zoos. Only one nibble—
a letter expressing some curiosity

from Philadelphia’s Bill Donaldson—had ,

reached Geary’s desk.

The MDC commissioner and his assis-
tant Michael Byme prepared themselves for
a major embarrassment. Could it be true
that no one wanted to run the Franklin Park
and Stone 2005? Could the 2005’ reputation
really be that bad?

“There was a little brinksmanship among
some of the people at the BZS,” says Geary.
“I think they were saying, What are they go-
ing to do if nobody responds [to the RFP]?
And the thought process underpinning that
was, We’re the only game in town.”

On January 3 Geary, Byme, and MDC li-
aison to zoos Lynn Bannon ﬂew to Philadel-
phia to meet with the man who represented
their only chance of dealing out the BZS.

“We responded [to the RFP] in Decem-
ber,” says Donaldson. “But what we said
was that we were not going to respond, be-
cause our plate was fairly full. We were al-
ready working with the New jersey State
Aquarium, in Camden. Had it come at an-
other time, we might have jumped at it. So
we said [to Geary] that we couldn’t respond
to the idea of running the zods, but we’d

like to talk to you about it. He came down
here and spent the day with us and practi—
cally talked me into going up there and do-
ing it. When he left we wrote him a letter
and said, Look, we could do something for
you. We could provide an interim director
to make sure things were going along well,
and our folks could suggest a structure for

 

the-Boston ZoologicalSocietyj-w

 

 

the long-term operation of the zoo. What
we’re suggesting is that we put it in order,
and then you can look around and ﬁnd
somebody to run it. There are plenty of
good people out there, but my guess is that

_ he can’t get a good person to run his zoo

until he’s put it in order.”

Donaldson’s written follow-up to Geary’s
visit reached the MDC on January 10, the
deadline the agency had set for accepting
proposals, and the same day that the second
and last response arrived—the one from

Instead of attempting to address the is-
sues outlined in the RFP, the BZS sent
Geary its own proposal, which demanded
that the MDC work with the BZS to outline
a mission for the zoos before turning them
over in December 1986 to a new zoological
society, to be called the Metropolitan Bos-
ton Zoological Society (MBZS).

The most signiﬁcant difference between
what the MDC had asked for and what the
BZS offered concerned the length of the
proposed management contract. In its RFP

the MDC, constrained by state law, had of- '

fered only a 5-year contract, renewable for
20 years. The BZS wanted a 25-year guar-
antee to start, since Frank Mahady and the
blue-ribbon panel had pointed out that few
people would contribute money to an orga-
nization whose future was uncertain. In ad-
dition to this stipulation, the BZS, which
had argued that six months was not enough
time to prepare a response to the MDC’s
RFP, also imposed a ﬁve-week deadline—
until February 15, 1986—on the MDC’s
decision to accept its plan.

Neither respondent, not Bill Donaldson
of the Philadelphia Zoo and not the BZS,

~ even attempted to satisfy the criteria speci-

ﬁed in Geary’s RFP.

“We were looking for people to come for-
ward with their vision of what the zoos
should be,” says Geary aide Michael Byme.

“Obviously that didn’t happen.”

What did happen discouraged not only
Geary but 200 policymakers on Beacon Hill
as well. State senator Iohn Brennan, a mem-
ber of the two-year-old special Senate com-
mittee on zoos, is openly frustrated by the
RFP’s failure.

“Nine months ago, I naively thought that
the RFP idea was the answer,” he says. “But
now I know I was wrong. The RFP is a
quick-ﬁx sort of thing that won’t work. In-
stead of making progress toward improving
the zoos, we have, in effect, wasted a year.
From a legislative point of view, we’re not
pleased with the BZS proposal or with the
initiative shown by the BZS in the past. The
BZS doesn’t really have a direction itself, so
how can it turn the zoos around? Perhaps
we expected more than was feasible.”

The lack of response to the RFP under- I:

lined a lesson that Geary had learned from
his discussions with directors of successful
zoos and from his meeting with AAZPA ex-
ecutive director Robert Wagner. “Beyond
the border of the commonwealth, we have
no credibility,” says Geary. “Nobody from
around the country who is capable of run-
ning a 200 would accept a job from the

 

 

\i

MDC. We don’t have enough credibility to
recruit, but that’s something Philadel-
phia could do for us. They have the credi-
bility.”

But deposing the BZS would, Geary
knew, roil some of the best-connected civic
leaders in Boston. Political retribution fol-
lowing such a move was likely to resound
on Beacon Hill, even in the ofﬁce of Gearys

‘ old friend and current boss, Governor Mi-

chael Dukakis. In fact Geary had heard that

some BZS powers had already called state
legislators to suggest that any move to oust
" the zoological society would be a mistake.
‘ What Geary needed was a way to bring in

the SWAT team from Philly without com-
pletely alienating the BZS board.
During the ﬁrst week of February, Geary

4 called several members of the BZS board

including Frank Loew, Sheila Kennedy

. (whose mother is a trustee of the Philadel-

phia Zoo), and Paul Sonnabend, the presi-

dent of Sonesta Hotels lntemational, to lob-

by them for support of his plan.
Sonnabend,, the recently elected vice

president of the board, was receptive to

Geary’s plan. “I can picture the arrange-

ment with Philadelphia being very helpful

to the zoos,” he says. “There are some

members of the board who I’m sure feel dif-
. ferently. There are some people who have

put so much time and effort into the BZS

that they think they should be allowed to
‘ run things. But 1 think there is a great ur-
gency to take action. They either have to
move forward or close the zoos. Someone ,
’from outside the group is needed to get ,

credibility so the MDC and the state will
move forwardglf Geary has determined that
the outside group is going to be Philadel-
phia, I could live with that.”

The following Monday, February 10,

Geary pleaded his case to the Senate com-
mittee on zoos. On Tuesday he took it to the
governor. On Thursday, two days before
the February 15 deadline by which the BZS

' had required the MDC to respond to its
, proposal, Geary called 10 members of the
BZS board to his ofﬁce.

According to BZS president Bland, the ‘

BZS group did not ﬁll Geary’s ofﬁce in or-
der to accept their walking papers. Rather,
they laid out still more demands. “Number
one,” says Bland, “we told them that there
had to be a private entity running the zoos.
Number two, there had to be a ﬁnancial
commitment of at least $5 million to $7 mil-
lion per year from the state. And three, we
said that it was essential that the city of
Boston and the town of Stoneham play a
role in the zoos. We also told them that
the decision about who would run the zoos
had to be made soon, that if it wasn’t
made by this spring, we were going to take
a hike.”

Geary listened. Then he explained his po-

sition. The main reason the zoos had no

credibility was that they were underfunded.

, The reason they were underfunded was that

they had no credibility. It was a vicious cir-
'cle, but he had found a way to break it: he
would bring in a temporary management
team with credibility enough to shake loose

CW 0%?"0/

 

 

D

 




THAD COCHRAN

COMMITTEE ON
MISSISSIPPI

AGRICULTURE, NUTRITION,
AND FORESTRY

COMMITTEE ON

ﬁnitzd gratﬁﬁ ﬁmatz ' APPROPRIATIONS

COMMITTEE ON
WASHINGTON, DC 20510 GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS

April 3, I986

Constance F. Yorbrough
King Arthur Court, NE
Georgia 30345

Mrs. Yarbrough:

Thank you for your letter regarding the fiscal year
1987 budget proposal for the Animal and Plant Health
Services of the United States Department of Agriculture.

I share your concern about inhumane treatment of
animals and agree that, through inspections, there must be
enforcement of current regulations to safeguard against
cruel treatment.

The Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture,

which I chair, 'ill soon be conducting hearings on the
budget proposals for USDA. I can assure you that I will
keep your proposals in mind as we deal with the APHIS budget
and as we adhere to the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings Balanced

thank you for writing. I hope you will continue
ave the benefit of your views.

incer el )y,

// w’j ,
5’5 coil/{R RAN
‘ Sta at

’///Jn' ed

es Senator

 




BOSTON GLOBE - March 31, 1986

 

a
Orphaned robbin being fed from mouth
of adult puppet. PHOTO BY PAUL BEAVER

NATURAL SCIENCE

Offering
Wildlife a

 

better shot
at survival

Ingenious improvisation
saves injured and orphaned

By sy Montgomery
Special to the Globe
uspended by a chain like a Tif-
fany lamp, a box turtle ex-r
tended and retracted its horny
legs as if walking through air.
The chain was attached to a
ring taped to the reptile’s natural shell —
or what remained of it. The tortoise had
been hit by a car, and its shell was split in
four places.

Using techniques borrowed from air‘
craft technology and human dentistry,
herpetologist George Heinrich has just re-
paired the fractures with patches of fiber-
glass cloth and epoxy resin. The tortoise
would remain in the sling, suspended
three inches from the ﬂoor of the aquar-
ium at Litcherman Nature Center in Mem-
phis, for three hours. Suspension would
aid the tortoise’s breathing and help the
epoxy to dry cleanly.

Months later, its shell healed and the
fiberglass patch shed, the tortoise would
be released back to the wild.

More and more injured and orphaned
wildlife — both common species and en-
dangered — are being saved at rehabilita-
tion centers around the country as in-
creasingly sophisticated and innovative

techniques are developed. For example:

0 Teﬂon 'and polypropyline pins, surgi-

cally inserted in the hollow bones of birds,’

promote healing of fractures. The pins are
so light they do not affect the delicate
ﬂight balance.

0 Circumventing the sound barrier cre-—

ated by shells, ultrasonic frequencies mea-
sure blood ﬂow in turtles and tortoises
that stethoscopes can’t detect. The dopp-
ler instrument, adapted from human
medicine, helps spot such things as inter-
nal bleeding.

' O A Texas wildlife rehabilitation center ‘
Imanages its patients’ records, care infor-
‘mation and research papers with a com-

puter. The database is accessible nation-
wide via a year-old computer hotline, Kyfo
Wildlife, to which 400 rehabilitators have
access.

Not everyone approves the high—tech
emphasis. In a speech last year, Dr. Ge-
rard A. Bertrand, president of the Mass-
achusetts Audubon Society, said the work
can be staggeringly expensive. At the Uni-
versity of Minnesota’s Raptor Research
Project, for instance, the cost to heal and
release one bird runs $300 to $500. “The
same money, if directed to land preserva-
tion. . .would have far greater environ-
mental value and meet a larger variety of
environmental needs,” Bertrand said.

To that, James Fitzpatrick,
who runs the Carpenter Nature
Center in Hastings, Minn., re-
sponds: “Sure, if you save 50 rob—
ins one year. you're not going to
make one iota of difference in the
population as a whole. But what
about when you get in an eastern
bluebird (an endangered species)
with a broken leg? How are you
going to know what to do if you
haven’t worked with 200 robins
before?”

Lynn GreenWalt, vice president
of the National Wildlife Feder-
ation, says rehabilitation extends
“far beyond‘the individual ani—
mal.” The centers often keep re-
cords on wildlife diseases and
alert environmental officials to
wildlife poisoning by toxins that
could affect humans as well.

“The reality of wildlife rehabili—
tation isn’t ﬂuffy little animals as
a hobby,” Dr. Richard Evans,
founding president of the National
Wildlife Rehabilitators Associ~
ation, said. “It‘s collecting data,
pioneering research, tracking re-
leases.”

The group in five years has
grown to 460 members. and in
Massachusetts alone three reha-
bilitation centers have opened in
three years, all with emphasis on
research. In Hingham, Dr.
Vaughn Pratt gave up his veteri-
nary practice to start New Eng
land Wildlife Center. In Ware,_Dr.
Paul Beaver, an animal behavior-
ist. founded Quabaug Bird Sanctu-
ary and Bird Rehabilitation and
Research Institute. Both are fund—
ed by donations and grants. Tufts
University, as part of its veteri—
nary program, opened a clinic to
treat injured wildlife.

Finding out what doesn’t work

“We’re all trying a lot of weird
techniques,” Dr. Mark Pokras, a
resident at the Tufts clinic, said,
and “it’s just as important to
share what doesn’t work as What
does work.”

For instance, research on tur—
tle shell repair has been going on
independently at about a dozen in-
stitutions for 20 years. One pio-
neering effort at the Denver Zoolo—
gical Gardens in 1966 saved the
life of a Galapagos tortoise whose
shell had been punctured in two
places by vandals. The 200 veter—
inarian used hoof repair material,

. desi ned for horses, to seal the

holes. He camouﬂaged the clear
plastic with shoe polish.

The new patches, herpetologist
Heinrich said, represent a dramat—
ic advance. Not only do they re-
store the turtles natural shield
against infection. but they also
mold the shell to its original
shape. Shell deformities can re-
strict a turtle’s movement or pre—
vent it from mating. As the scales

on the healing natural shell are

shed, the patch usually falls off.
The 1966 technique saved the

i. tortoise, but it had drawbacks:
. The hoof-repair material, created

by mixing a powder with a resin,
generated heat as the chemicals
interacted. It could harm more
delicate tortoises. Heinrich said

.. newer materials being tried in—
clude dental acrylics that harden

under ultraviolet without generat—
; ing heat and quick-drying epoxies
1 developed for airplanes. in some
, cases, wire sutures hold the shell

pieces in place. The shell is pierced
with a dental drill and thin wires
are laced through the holes, much
like a shoe is laced.

For setting broken bones in
birds, rehabilitators use plastic
welding rods developed to fill the
cracks between ﬂoor tiles.

 




Bone pins don’t affect ﬂight

Bird bones are light and hol-
low, like soda straws. At Tree-
house Wildlife Center in Brighton.
ill, rehabilitators insert a thin
plastic rod into one end of the
broken bone while the bird is
anesthetized, slide the other end of
the bone onto the protruding side
of the rod and close the broken
ends. The rod weighs less than
one-sixth of an ounce, and the pin
does not affect ﬂight. Tufts uses
Teﬂon pins instead of polypropa-
lyine; both materials are inert and
do not irritate living tissues.

Since the goal of rehabilitation
is release patients must also be
prepared behaviorally to cope
with life in the wild. At Quabaug.
the use of puppets created from
stuffed adult birds has dramati-
cally improved survival rates
among orphaned young birds.
Forty or so orphans are taken in

weekly and they must be fed every t

15 minutes during daylight hours.
‘ Institute director Paul Beaver
offers a meal of vitamin-supple-

mented dogfood to a group of:

young orphaned wood ducks -- not
from his hands but rather from
the bill of a stuffed adult wood
duck. That task finished, he picks
up a stuffed robin and moves to a

cage housing baby robins. The .
puppets, Beaver explains. teaches *

the baby birds to identify with
their own species, thus helping
prepare them for release.

Although disarmingly simple,
the puppets reflect years of re—
search. While a researcher at
Brookfield Zoo in Chicago, Beaver
studied the development of ﬂight—

less birds hatched in captivity, in-'

cluding ostriches. rheas, and Aus-

tralian emus and cassowaries. He
wanted to make sure the baby
birds, raised in isolation from.

their parents. did not “imprint’f
on him, mistaking him for one of
their own. Human-imprinted
birds can later try to mate with
humans — a phenonomen Beaver
said “can be quite alarming, if not
dangerous” with species that can
grow to six feet in height and
weigh as much as a man.

Puppets started with ostrich

To avoid such identity crises, .

Beaver tried all manner of things
— including dressing up like an os-

trich and making himself a life- '

size puppet. Since he was already
bi—pedal and flightless, he rea-
soned he needed just a few finish-
ing touches to get the idea across
to his ostriches. The disguise
worked; when the birds grew up,
they selected appropriate mates.

 

 

At Quabaug, he has scaled the
puppet idea down, first working
with robins and gradually devel—
oping 36 species, from wood ducks
to bobolinks to orioles. The pup-
pets quickly become tattered be-
cause of the attentions of the
young. and he is constantly on the
lookout for road kills from which
to make replacements.

Quabaug has expanded to in—
clude a rehabilitation project in
the Peruvian Amazon, where en-
dangered caimans, macaws, oce-
lots and toucans confiscated from
the illegal pet trade are nursed
back to health and released in the
jungle.

Rehabilitators are working
more and more with endangered
and rare species. Tufts has treated
and released dozens of eagles. ln-
creasingly, zoos are initiating cap—
tive-breeding programs of endan—
gered species for release into the
wild.

For Dr. Ben Beck of the Nation—
al Zoo, the results were disastrous
when he first tried to release cap—
tive-bred golden lion tamerins in
the Peruvian rain forest. Cages
constructed fromvrire and lumber
were filled with tree branches and
vines for the endangered primates
to climb upon. “They wouldn’t

' have anything to do with them."

Beck said. “They would only
climb on the wire or the milled
lumber. Any idea that instinct to—
tally governed their behaviors was
proved wrong.”

Surviving in the jungle

The natural environment was

a dangerous place for which these
pixie-faced, squirrel—sized mon—
keys were totally unprepared.
Freed from the cages, they did not
know how to navigate through the
treetops to a food source in easy
View. Instead, they dropped to the
ground, which wild tamerins nor—
mally avoid because of predators.
Two were killed by snakes and an-
other nearly died after eating a
poisonous toad.

1 Researchers switched to cages
built with a minimum of lumber
and much native vegetation, and
they were moved, refurbished and
re-designed each week to teach the
animals navigational skills.

Many animals taken to reha-
bilitation centers could never sur—
vive in the wild. At Kay McKe-
ever’s Ontario home, there are 300
of them. In a backyard crammed
with cages of all shapes and con—
figurations live burrowing owls,
great horned owls, pygmy owls,
saw-whet owls, Snowy owls - 10
species in all — owls with crippled
wings. owls missing tails, blind
nwls. But, McKeever says, “Boy,

 

can they churn out the babes.”
McKeever’s Owl Rehabilitation
and Research Foundation is now ,
the largest raptor breeding prOject

in the world. ‘

As truly wild lands vanish, d1—
rector Charles Sedgwick of. the
Tufts clinic predicts, rehabilita-
tion will increase in importance
and sophistication. “Someday.
"most wildlife will only exist in pro-
tected areas,” he said, and today s
wildlife rehabilitators are accumu— ‘
lating the knowledgeneeded to
keep'dwindling wildlife popula-
tions from vanishing forever.

Montgomery is afreelance

' writer who lives in New Hamp—

shire.

 




THE HOUSTON POST - March 31, 1986

éDog—fighting ring busted

.46 arrested at Louisiana convention -

5

if By‘KATHERINE KERR ‘ miles west of Natchitoches Saturday night netted 10

‘ Post Reporter ~ - ' dogs, pistols, veterinary supplies and narcotics.

' , 7 “There were four dogs that actually had fought,”

5. Fourteen Texans were among 46 people arrested Fletcher said. “They were scarred up and scratched

; during a pit bulldog fighting convention at a blood- up and blooded up pretty good, but I think they’re

i, spattered portable arena in rural Louisiana, the going to do 0 .”

Natchitoches Parish sheriff said Sunday. He said the dogs are being housed in a kennel until

“It’s been a busy night and a busy Sunday,” Sher- a judge decides what should be done with the animals

. iff Norm Fletcher‘said. “We’ve been hunting for bad that have been trained for fighting. .

eggs instead of Easter eggs.” Fletcher described the portable arena as 20 square
Because officers still were compiling the reports feet and made with two-by-fours and plywood with

1‘ Sunday, he could not provide the names and address- carpeting on the ground.

*j’ es of those Texans arrested. ' “There was old blood on the inside so it had been

: Fletcher said’29 of those arrested were from Loui- used before,” Fletcher said.

Ssiana and one each from Mississippi, Oklahoma and A portable generator to fuel lights and a conces—

fFlorida. sion stand also were seized.

All 46 -— including five women — were charged “There they were eating their hotdogs and eating

_, with aiding and abetting dogfighting, a felony under their hamburgers and drinking their Cokes and beer

Louisiana law. They were released after posting and watching the blood fly,” Fletcher said. “What a

. $1,500 bond each, Fletcher said. great way to spend Easter eve.”

: “When we made the raid last night a whole bunch He was offended by one participant who was wear-

? ran into the woods,” Fletcher said, adding he thinks ing a T-shirt that read~“Dogfighting —- America’s No.

' they still may be in the woods trying to decide wheth- 1 Sport.”

, er to claim the 10 vehicles that were towed. Some of Those arrested appeared to “do this quite a bit,”

“ the vehicles had Texas license plates, he said. Fletcher said. After bonding out the participants

~' The raid on a portable arena in the woods five were bidding goodbyes “until the next time.”

OOQWCUUUCC

:i

'WCVUW".'W'

'vvvuvvwiovl’vdu

 

‘1 U V I‘ '1‘!

 

 

 

 

 

 

Church blasted chick giveaway

A worker at the Anti-Cruelty Society of Chicago gets the First Baptist Church, which buses children from
acquainted with four chicks turned into the agency by Chicago to Hammond, gave them out as an incentive
parents of children who were given them by a‘ to go to Sunday school. The society said the chicks
Hammond, lnd., church Sunday. The society charged were bused back to Chicago without food or water.

__,-_.. ‘r. l.~~-‘-— --_

 




ARLINGTON

 

How much is that . . .

DALLAS TIMES HERALD

March 30, 1986

City plans neighborhood ‘animal fairs’ to increase adoption 0f strays

By JACQUIELYNN FLOYD
Staff writer

City animal control officials, anticipating
a bumper crop of stray cats and dogs this
spring, are planning a series of neighbor-
hood “animal 'fairs” to boost the adoption
rate for homeless pets.

Although the project still is in the plan-
ning stages, acting Health Director Pat.
Akin said he would like to stage at least
three fairs in city parks during the next
few months.

The goal, he said. is to increase the
adoption rate for stray animals to 20 or 25
percent. Presently, the Arlington shelter
ﬁnds homes for only about 10 percent of
the hundreds of animals rounded up as
strays or left at the pound each month.

“We’re doing as well or better than the
other agencies in the area, but I hate to see
us putting so many of them to sleep,”
Akin said. “Hopefully, this will bring the
animals out into the public where more
people will see them.”

Akin said local merchants already have
offered to help sponsor the fairs, and at
least one pet store has volunteered free
food and supplies to those who adopt cats
or dogs]

In addition. Akin said he is trying to line
up veterinarians to answer questions and a
dipping station to treat pets for ﬂeas and
other parasites The fairs may even feature
a petting 200. with animals borrowed from
area wildlife refuges. Akin said.

Animal control supervisor Pam .lolmson
said she expects a cat. and dog boom to
start bV mid April and continue through
the spi mg

 

‘ C

If you’ re really look-
ing for the perfect ani-
mal, that will be the
best time.”

Pam Johnson
animal control supervisor

 

“If you’re really looking for the perfect
animal, that will be the best time,” she
said. “It’s the best selection of the year.”

Last month, 130 animals found new
homes through the Arlington shelter, and
the adoption rate ﬂuctuates between 8 and
12 percent each month, Johnson said.

“That may seem low, but you have to

. realize the great number of animals that

come through here,” she said. The shelter
is not only a stopover for lost pets waiting
to be reclaimed by owners, but for hun-
dreds of stray cats and dogs, wild animals
trapped by animal control ofﬁcers and
runaway livestock.

Johnson said she hopes the fairs will
provide public education as well as en—
courage pet adoption. “We’d like to make
people more aware of proper care and ani*
mal handling,” she said. “And we’d like to
get a lot. of these animals new homes.
We’ve already got. quite a few mamas over
here."

Akin said he plans to schedule one of
the fairs for late spring, with at least two
more to follow at. other locations during
the summer.

 

 

 

 

Groaner. a (wreck—old female Dober-
man pinscher. looks through the win-

Steve Drauss / Dallas Times Herald

(low at the Arlington Animal Shelter,
5920 W. Pioneer Parkway.




 

Hippos and tattoos marked early

George slaying the dragon on
his torso.

0 Leo the lion, whose roar was
, featured at the, beginning of
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer movies,
was “discovered” —— as they say
in Hollywood —— at the Memphis
Zoo. He was one of 34 cubs born
to a stately lioness named Queen
Mary. Leo’s original name was
Volney, but it was changed for
the screen, just as Marion Morri-
son’s name was changed to John
Wayne. After his show-biz ca-

reer faded (Leo’s, not Wayne’s),_

he returned to the zoo until his
death in 1944.

0 The zoo at one time was
known as the “Hippo-Breeding

Capital of the World" because of

,--the ever-burning amour
' between Venus and Adonis,
prize pachyderms who produced
almost 50 offspring.

The arrival of these hippos ex-
“actly 72 years ago today was cele-
brated with another major pa-
rade. Some schools were dis-
missed to view the new arrivals.
The Commercial Appeal report-
. ed that “every beast and bird in
the park caught the taint (of the
hippos) in the gale and roared a
welcome to the newcomers.” A
bystander watching the hippos
enter their new pool in the zoo
reportedly said to one: “Take a

drink, old man, you are in Mem- ,

phis.”

The prolificacy of Venus and
Adonis brought fame to the zoo,
and even sustained it during the
Depression — “hippos were sort
of a cash crop,” Ms. Moses said.
Unfortunately, however, the
muddy bottom of the hippo mar—
ket dropped out some time ago.

“We still would be the hippo-
breeding capital of the world if
anybody wanted to buy one,” Ms.

Sea Lions at the Memphis Zoo sun themselves as visitors watch. .

Bauer said.

0 Monkeys and other critters '

have escaped from the zoo in
years past, but one of the hair-
iest such episodes occurred
about 70 years ago when a grizz-
ly bear got loose.

Headlines in The Commercial
Appeal reported: “Bear Escapes
at Zoo; Terrorizes Vicinity . . .
Neighbors and Children Near
Park in State of Panic." Accord-

ing to the story, “The love of an
animal mother is at the bottom
of the grizzly’s escapade” — that
is, the bear broke out of its cage
after its newborn cubs were tak-
en away. The not-very-comfort-
ing story also reported that the
bear “was in a frenzy of rage and
probably would be an ugly cus-
tomer if cornered.” Apparently,
the ugly customer was never

caught.

days

By Dave Darnell

Ms. Moses hopes Memphians
will show as much enthusiasm
for the zoo this April as they did
80 years ago, when thousands
signed Galloway’s petition and
attended the zoo parade.

Ms. Bauer also wants the peo-

,ple of Memphis to continue to

support the zoo. “You can’t sit
back and expect the city to run
this —- the public has to take
part.”

 

 

 

 




 

 

MEMPHIS COMMERCIAL APPEAL - April 1, 1986

Z00 events Will celebrate 80th year

Unbridled enthusiasm
for staring at a bear
took chains off trees

 

By John Beifuss
Staff Reporter

“And from what I understand,

 

Z Natch the black bear lost his head for the Memphis
00.

Before the zoo was founded 80 years ago this Fri-
day, Natch lived chained to a tree in Overton Park.
Memphians enjoyed taking a buggy ride down the
country lane that passed the little log cabin he used
for a den

Natch had come from Natchez, Miss, in 1903 to be
the mascot for Memphis’ professional baseball team,
and everybody loved him. Everybody except the per-
son who poisoned him five years later. A $550 reward
was offered for the arrest and conviction of the
bruincidal maniac, but the culprit was never appre-
hended.

That’s when Natch lost his head. Barbara Moses,

curator of education at the Memphis Zoo, said Natch ,

was so beloved that a taxidermist removed and
mounted the bear’s head to display at the zoo.

it got loved to
death,’ Ms. Moses said. “People hugged it and petted
it until it fell apart.’

The bear, in fact, is as much the founder of the zoo
as Col. Robert Galloway, the park commissioner who
fought to establish a zoological garden in Overton
Park as early as 1904. “Even in

for children from 9. 30 a. m. to 2:30 p. m. Saturday.
“Go Wild” activities will include a scavenger hunt,
a “touch table” with animal objects, performances
by the Memphis Children’ 5 Theater, appearances by
costumed animal characters and clowns, and more.
Ms. Moses said there is not much information
available on the early days of the

 

these days they were screaming
there was not enough money,”
Ms. Moses said.

The need for a zoo, Galloway
argued, was great. More wild an-
imals, including a coyote, were
being found chained to trees in
the park.

On April 4, 1906, Galloway pre-
sented a petition to the park
commission containing more
than 2,000 names of people in fa-
vor of a “zoo department.” The
commission relented, and

“And from what I
understand, it
(Natch’s stuffed
bead) got loved to
death. People hugged
z'txandpetted it until it»
fell apart. ”

--- Barbara Moses

zoo. Much of the 200’s history
has been pieced together by Dru
Bauer, a zookeeper for 13 years
who has spent much of her free
time zi-ompiling a scrapbook.
The zoo was an exotic attrac-
tion in its early days. Public
enthusiasm was so high that a
1906 zoo parade was viewed by
25,000 people, according to The
Commercial Appeal. The parade
included fire engines, Choctaw
Indians, animals in circus-style
wagons and a company of veter-

 

agreed to appropriate $1,200 a
year for the care of the chained animals — and thus a
zoo was born.

In honor of that historic date, many special events
celebrating eight decades of the Memphis Zoo will
occur during April

An exhibition of rare, old photos will be on display
in the zoo ’5 Education Building all month. And there
will be a “Go Wild at the Memphis Zoo” celebration

 

ans of the Confederacy.

Other highlights of those early years:

0 The director of the zoo during the 19303 and ’408
had been the tattooed man in a circus, and his wife
was a sword swallower. N J. Melroy,1n fact, ran a tat-
too parlor out of his home on the zoo grounds. Mel-
roy was most notable for a colorful depiction of St.

 




OAKLAND, CATRIBUNE- April 2,1986

Danville vet veers from tradition

By Carolyn Penn
11» Tribune

DANVILLE— American acu-
,puncturists have learned to ex—
pect*a certain skepticism from

i The San Ramon Valley vet said she believes that a
combination of acupuncture, chirOpractic and other
homeopathic healing techniques often remedies
chronic degenerative diseases that traditional

the medical establishment about
the health benefits of sticking
tiny-needles into humans.

‘ What is revered in China as a
2.000—year-old science is still

viewed by most doctors here as .

an interesting experiment, at
best:

Seiholistic veterinarian Gloria
Dodd didn’t expect overwhelm-
ing-approbation from tradition-
al-style vets when she started
practicing acupuncture on ani-
mats here five years ago.

_ In fact, Dodd said she’s never
gotten a single referral from her
local peers.

. “But a lot of peOple are seek-
ing natural healing for their ani-
mals as well as themselves, and
they afind me,” she said with a
smile.

Whether they ve seen her on
television heard of her through
woﬁd-OLmouth referrals or
looked her up in the California
Veterinary Medical Association
directory, Dodd said she’s “del-
uged" with clients.

According to Chinese theory,
vital energy flows through the
body via channels called meridi-
ans The body, acupuncturists
say, can be encouraged to heal
itself by stimulating points along
these meridians that correspond
to Specific parts of the body.

The 21-year San Ramon Val-
1ey: vet said she believes that a
combination of acupuncture,
chi'rOpractic and other homeo-
pathic healing techniques often
remedies chronic degenerative
diseases that traditional animal
meidicine cannot.

fEPeOple come to me some—
itinies expecting miracles,” she
notbd. “But I can’t promise that

when they bring me animals it’s -

takien ten years to get into their
terrible state of health.

‘iBut,” she continued more

brightly, “I can relieve the pain,
get: the animal‘s appetite back,
and purify the body.”

Dodd charges $30 for an office
visit. But a two-hour, exhaustive
exam that includes blood tests
and hair analysis, to detect tox-
ins; in the body, runs $120. Re-
search conducted at Purdue Uni—
versity during the last‘six years

animal medicine cannot.

would seem to corroborate
Dodd‘ 3 claims about pain relief.

The study found that acupunc-
turb increased production of en-
dotphines, the highly effective
paih relievers the body manu-
fadiires to anesthetize itself.

Purdue research also indicat-
ed that acupuncture boosts pro-
duction of disease- -fighting gam-
ma: globulin in laboratory ani-
mals.-

Hodd also has dramatic suc-
ces$ stories to relate including
the :cure of a quadraplegic dog.

“Blood tests showed that the
poo;- dog had been poisoned by
exposure to malathion and
DDT.”

She treated the canine with a

common “hair of the dog” hom-
eopathic technique: an extreme-
ly diluted tincture of the toxins
that she said paralyzed him in
the first place. That and acu-
puncture treatment enabled the
dog to resume his neighborhood
rounds, Dodd said.

Instead of needles, the 1960
UC-Davis Veterinary Medicine
School graduate uses electro~
magnetic current to stimulate

‘ key acupuncture points.

The electromagnetic-field
therapy machine sitting in
Dodd’s waiting room was devel-
oped in Germany by Dr. Rhein-
hold Voll, whose pioneering work
in alternative medicine could
win him a Nobel Prize this year,

- Dodd said.

The machine, an Open-ended
loop charged with a mild cur-
rent, is roomy enough for a large
dog to lie in. Dodd‘s patient this

' afternoon, a 15-year—old Labra-

dor mix named Ben, looked pret-
ty comfortable lolling inside the
loop —— with owner Frances Hail-
man standing by to hold his paw.

Hailman told Dodd during
Ben’s examination that the old
boy‘s arthritis wasn’t getting any
better, despite doses of aspirin
and regular cortisone treat-
ments.

“And I know the cortisone is
hard on his system,” the Berke-
lev resident said.

“Oh, absolutely!” the vet nod-
ded. “I‘ve seen dogs who’ve been
on long-term cortisone die from
uremia (toxic condition). Their
kidneys go eventually . . . It sup-
presses their immune system,
too.”

Like many of her nature-path
counterparts with human pa-
tients, Dodd uses iridology as a
diagnostic tool. She looks for dis-
coloration in specific points
around the iris of the eye that
indicate trouble elsewhere in the
body. .

“Aha! Do you see that dark
spot?” she asked Hailman, hold-
ing the dog’s eye lid Open with
one hand and pointing to the tell-
tale blotch with the other. “That
corresponds with the spleen,
which is cohnected to the im~
mune system.”

What Dodd read in Ben‘s eyes
told her that the dog had toxic
deposits in the heart, lungs and
colon as well. According to hom-
eopathic theory, toxin—stressed
organs wreak havoc on the spine
—— just what arthritic old Ben
doesn‘t need.

Toxic deposits of. varying se-
verity are a common phenome-
na among her clients, according
to her.

Dodd said shes been waging
an uphill campaign to get the
FDA after pet food manufactur-
ers whose products contain well

over the allowable amounts of
aluminum.

In the meantime, she advo-
cates a balanced diet of healthy
human food with extra meat
thrown in to meet domestic car- '
nivores’ nutritional needs.

This animal lover said her vo-
cational call came to her as a
child: “Even then, I was nurtur-
ing little wounded birds.”

But she eventually found her
orthodox veterinary practice
more frustrating than fulfilling
“because of all we couldn’t do.”
' The Danville resident learned
what she could on her own about
the Chinese science that helps
the body heal itself. Then, she
said, “God directed me" to a vet-
erinary journal article about a

 




Georgia vet who, after studying
the ancient art in China. cured
50 to 60 percent of the disc pa-
ralysis-plagued dachshunds he
treated.

Dodd traveled to Georgia and
studied with Dr. H. Grady
Young. founder of the Interna-
tional Acupuncture Veterinary
Society. FiVe years- ago, this
thirst to master alternative
healing led her to Germany to
study Voll‘s electromagnetic
therapy and diagnostic tech-
niques.

Dodd said she documented the
largely successful” results of

Voll's therapy as applied to ani-
mals for two years, and present-
ed her conclusions at the 1982
International Medical Congress
in Germany.

‘Here I was a vet addressing
MDs from all over the world.
What a thrill!” _

Her work may have won her a
standing ovation at the German
conference but California vets
were directed by the state veter—
inarylboard to either give up
their alternative methods or lose
their licenses in 1982.

She and the 74 other members
of the California Holistic Veteri-
nary Medicine Association that
Dodd founded in 1981 “turned
back this tide of fear and repres-
sion” with an all-out lobbying-
and education campaign.

Now, the outspoken vet is co-
chairman of the veterinary
board of govenors’ alternative
medicine committee.

Dodd, wife of a St. Mary’s Col-
lege biology professor and moth-
er of a 20-year-old Diablo Valley
College student, has chosen an
often-controversial path. But
she’s never regretted leaving
traditional practice behind to
take the road less traveled.

As a traditional vet, she would
have told Ben’s owner that corti-
sone and aspirin was the only
remedy available.

Instead. Ben was sent home
with instructions for theraputic
massage and a homeopathic
remedy.

“This is rhus tox,” Dodd told
Hailman. “It’s a very diluted
form of poison ivy, believeit or
not. And it really does wonderful

things for arthritis.”

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ben warily eyes the electromagnetic-field therapy loop.

Owner Frances llailman gives Ben reassuring hug.

 




 

ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH - March 31, 1986

Mother Recalls Horror

0f Lion Gnazuing Child

By Phyllis Brasch Librach
Of the Post-Dispatch Stall

More than a week after being
mauled by a mountain lion in a
state park in California, 5-year-
old Laura Michele Small has only
been able to mutter three words.

“I love you,” she told her fa-
ther, Donald Small, over the
weekend from her bed at Mission
Community Hospital in Mission
Viejo, Calif. She is in serious con-
dition in the intensive care unit.

“The trauma of this event was
just unbelievable,” said Laura’s
mother, Susan Mattern, in a tele-
phone interview Sunday from her
daughter’s bedside. Mattern, who
uses her maiden name, was born
and reared in St. Louis and now
lives in El Toro, Calif. ’

“In a matter of seconds she dis~
appeared,” Mattern said, recall-
ing how the loo-pound brown
mountain lion had carried off her
45-pound daughter.

“I just stood in the middle of
the stream and screamed,” she
said. “I didn’t even see which di-

rection it had gone. I was in such
a state of shock I, thought right
then I would never see her
again.”

Last week, Laura underwent 14
hours of brain and eye surgery to
try to repair more than so severe

, \ cuts
left on her face and skull by the lion’s
powerful jaws. Her right eye was
punctured and doctors say they are
unable to tell yet if she will be blind
in that eye.

“We don’t know what is going to
happen,” said her mother.

Mattern said her daughter faced
years of physical therapy, more plas-
tic surgery and psychiatric treatment
to offset the traumatic event.

Doctors and her family point to one
hopeful sign this weekend from Lau-
ra, a blonde, blue-eyed girl, She
moved her right arm and began nod-
ding “Yes” and “No” in response to
questions.

. “She’s a real fighter, and I think
that has helped her,” Mattern said.

The attack occurred the afternoon

of March 23 at Ronald W. Caspers
Wilderness Regional Park, 60 miles
southeast of Los Angeles. La ra’s par-
ents have been hiking there or about
10 years.

Donald Small and Laura’s brother,
David, 9, had walked ahead on a trail
while Laura and her mother stopped
to wade into a shallow stream and

 

 

. head.

.
,L‘VW “-
2' ',—,: 'r.‘.'_.« it “‘ —'

 

Laura Small
“A real fighter”

look for tadpoles. Laura had just gone
onto an embankment in a small
clearing when the attackoccurred.

Her mother said,“l was still in the
middle of the stream when out of the
corner of my eye I saw what I

thought was a big dog walking toward
her. And my first thought was ‘Why
would someone let a dog that huge go
loose?’ And in five seconds, the ani-
mal had grabbed her by the head and
pulled her off into the brush.”

Mattern said the terror she had felt
had left her paralyzed.

“I was just wandering,” she said. “I
didn’t know what to do or where to
go. And then I heard her moaning, so
I went in the direction of the sounds
and then I saw her.

_ “But I couldn’t get to her through
the cacti and brush, so I ran around
to get in the other side, and I saw the
lion had her head in her mouth.
There was just so—much blood I didn’t
think she was alive.”

A hiker half a mile away, Gregory
Ysais, 36, of Mission Viejo, followed
Mattern’s screams to the thicket. He
waved a heavy branch over the lion’s

“The next thing I remember he
was in between the lion and my
daughter and he said, ‘Pick up your
baby and get out of here.’ ” Mattern

.said. _

For almost a half-hourcq , Matter
and her husband took turns carrying
their unconscious daughter on the
wilderness trial. Unknown to them,
Ysais had run ahead and found a
ranger. Laura was airlifted by heli-
copter to the hospital 15 miles away.

Mattern asked Ysais to come to the

1 hospital.

“We wanted to meet him,” she said.

“There aren’t a lot of people that
. would have been that brave. We just

thanked him for saving her life. If it

i. hadn’t been for him, I don’t know
what would have happened.” .

The day after the attack, park

1., rangers used helicopters and found
2 the mountain lion in almost the same
spot as where Laura had been at-

tacked. They were forced to kill him
when he turned on rangers during the
capture, Mattern said.

Authorities in California say the at-

: tack was the first by a mountain lion
i in that state in more than 75 years.

Charlie Hoessle, director of the St.

' Louis Zoo, agreed that the attack was
*’ atypical of mountain lions.

“They have never been considered

dangerous to man,” he said. “They
; are known as retiring, secretive ani-
mals who avoid humans.”

Laura’s grandparents, Eric and

Gertrude Mattern of south St. Louis,
j and her aunt, Carol Bryan of Flori-
: ssant, plan to go to California later
this week to be with Laura and her
’. family.

Mattern graduated from Rosati-
Kain High School in 1966. For seven
years, she was a nun with the School
Sisters of Notre Dame. She left the

order in 1973 and moved to Califor-
.: nia, where she teaches piano.

 




 

{Elfin livestock ‘ i'Atmstréng'   _
end up rullnin off tit being chew on by
edhj'l‘hey ray!

gs 3“ weeks bid or _
demeanor For

'ot-‘i'att‘lf‘actl
their little legs. This m

”(MU C/v‘fﬂ/U ’/CZ 5
Vii/aw 0/ Wé

 

 

L

 

if Van-buy tlie’é’é duélil ' > ' w ‘ - .
illegal activity. mgs for Easter gifts, you "3 PamC'Path in

 

 

 




 

MEMPHIS COMMERCIAL APPEAL - April 6, 1986

Researchers see
What monkeys do

Stress 1eVe1s
in social roles
are measured

 

By Renee Haines
United Press International

 

SAN ANTONIO, Texas — Mak-
ing businessmen out Of monkeys
is giving researchers a measure
of the kind of stress that can lead
to heart disease in corporate
America.

Baboons are being made to
climb the corporate ladder in sit-
uations mimicking human rela-
tionships to measure the levels
of stress and reactions to the
“psycho-social” pressure of the
world of the higher primates.

The focus of the study at the
Southwest Foundation for Bio-
medical Research is long-term
stress.

“Heart disease is a major kill-
er. Stress can lead to heart dis-
ease,” said Dr. Anthony Coehlo
Jr., who, along with a team of re-

searchers at the foundation in
San Antonio, has been making
the monkeys confront chal-
lenges of the human world and
measuring their responses.

“Baboons are one of the few
animal species around that live
in social organizations like hu-
mans,” Dr. Coehlo said, explain-
ing that animal models can be
subjected to the experimenta—
tion needed in long-term stud-
1es.

The stress study began five
years ago, and results will be
compiled after autopsies; find-
ings will probably be available
in about three years.

“We measure their behavior,
monitor their blood pressure
and a series of hormones related
to stress, their cholesterol lev-
els,” he said. “We manipulate
conflict.” '

Baboons, like humans, show
nonverbal signs of stress, Dr.
Coehlo has found.

“I can go into a cage with a
large number of baboons, and I
don’t get attacked, because I
know how to read their signals,”

A— . ~——-—__.._.._

 

he said.

Confronted with stressful si-
tuations, baboons will yawn —
not a sign of sleepiness, but a
sign of tension - or move from
side to side, repeatedly.

“There’s also the muzzle
wipe,” he said, brushing the
back of his hand against his
cheek to demonstrate. “And the
brow wipe. It’s repetitive.”

Humans also will show repeti-
tive behavior — Dr. Coehlo
tapped on the desktop with a
pencil to demonstrate -— to sig-
nal stress.

“There are a number of ges-
tures common to all humans.
When people get uptight, they
clench their teeth. You can see it
in the jaws,” he said.

“If you ignore this, they’ll start
threatening. An animal will slap
the ground or make a bluff
charge. Humans don’t usually at-
tack each other. We tend to be
more verbal. We start threaten-
ing by talking . . . by sabotaging
each other,” he said.

“Corporate takeovers are very

big now, very stressful,” he said,
citing examples of corporate

maneuverings to get in the best _

position'waofhave to look for
the weak spots.”

To simulate stress felt by a
new employee seeking accep
tance and the stress felt by the
others because their order has
been upset, a baboon might be
moved to a different cage where
a hierarchy is already in place.

“In a normal situation, if
there’s a real problem, the ani-
mals stressed most will usually
leave the group. In our situation,
we don’t let the animals quit.
After all, humans many times
can’t quit either. You have to
deal with it or persevere,” he
said.

“If you can’t deal one-on-one,
you get the people in the office
to be on your side,” he said. “The
objective is to get the highest
ranking animal on your side.”

What about the animals faced
by such maneuvering?

“The animal forced to form
the coalition is not always going

i

to be next to the supervisor. You
have to wait your turn,” Dr.
Coehlo said.

The key to minimizing stress
is the stability of th e. social orga-
nization or workplace, he ex-
plained, adding that baboons
tend to organize along extended
family lines.

“You lose a member every
once in a while to a cheetah, but
it’s very stable. It’s the way hu-
mans used to be. We used to have
extended families,” he said.

“If you work in an office long
enough, it becomes the family.
But in corporate America, the
same thing is happening that did
with the families.

“Families break up. They don’t
have the support system. What’s
happening in corporate America
is that there are so many trans-
fers between corporations now
—- a continual change in the
hierarchy. .

“As long as the hierarchy lS
operational, stress levels are
minimized,” he said. “Everyone
knows what’s expected.”

 




I recently made the ac-
quaintance of Sherman,
a very unusual horse. I’d
heard his story before I met
him, but was still unpre-
pared for the 13-year-old
red roan horse with the
large, soft eyes. Given his
past, I expected to see a
few fiery snorts issuing
forth from his nostrils.
He’d been shuffled from
owner to owner, tried at
many things, including a
short bout on the race
track. He couldn’t be
caught in his stall. One
“problem horse” trainer
had even wrapped barbed
wire around Sherman’s bit
to control him. But Sher-
man wouldn’t cooperate.
He earned the label of out-
law. He just couldn’t seem
to find his place in life.
Then one day several
years ago, Sherman met up
with Rick Hawthorne, a
very unusual person. The
meeting was arranged at
the request of a friend of
Hawthorne, who thought
the two of them might get
along. Hawthorne is into an
unusual form of horseman-
ship called vaulting, which

is the art of performing
gymnastics on a moving
horse. Not just any moving
horse will do. It takes a
well-trained, gentle, relia-
ble sort of horse.
Consider the trust that
you must place in a moving
horse if you’re doing, say, a
“stand” (which is just as it
sounds) on his back. If the

horse suddenly stops,
changes gaits or skitters to
one side, you might find
yourself flying through the
air. Or what would happen
if several vaulters were
mounted at once and the
horse decided to buck? In
short, it seemed preposter-
ous that Sherman would be
a likely candidate for this

 

LOS ANGELES TIMES SUNDAY MAGAZINE - March 30, 1986

An Outlaw and a Gentleman

BY KATHLEEN BROWN

sport, and Hawthorne was
justifiably dubious about
his friend’s request that he
give Sherman a try.

But it was finally Sher-
man’s turn _to have some-
thing work out. When Haw-
thorne vaulted onto the
horse’s back for the first
time, Sherman continued

circling calmly, as though he was
quite familiar with what was expect-
ed. The next time Sherman was used
for vaulting, three people leaped on
his back, performing what’s known as
a triple. When Hawthorne tells the
story, you’d think Sherman had been a
vaulting horse in a past life.
According to Hawthorne, it can
take months to develop a good vault-
ing horse, which must circle at a con-
sistent pace for 15 to 20 minutes at a
stretch while as many as three vaulters
mount and do intricate acrobatics. Af-
ter a brief three weeks of training,
Sherman made his competitive debut.
One example of Sherman’s excep-
tional aptitude for vaulting occurred
at a show where he was inadvertently
entered in a class where he was to
circle to the right. Sherman had only
worked to the left. While a casual
observer might assume that a horse
could simply reverse and go the other
way with equal ease, that is not always
the case. Horses are usually better
going one way or the other—just as
some people are right-handed and
other people left-handed. And al-

Sherman has found a purpose in life, and become the da

 

Richard Ruthsznz

rlingof the Valley View Vaulters.

though it’s the vaulters, not the horse,
who are judged in competition, the
animal’s even pace and action can
determine the score for the vaulter.
Sherman’s place in the annals of
vaulting history was assured when—
going against his preference—he
earned first, second- and third-place
awards for his individual vaulters.

But all that was years ago. Nowa-
days, he’s the idol of Valley View
Vaulters in Tujunga, a team that Haw-
thorne and his partner, Virginia
Manges, have organized. Vaulters
range from age 4 to adult; many have
physical handicaps. The day I met
Sherman, one child accidentally
rolled his wheelchair nearly under
the horse’s belly. Sherman only
nudged the contraption and stood pa-
tiently until order was restored.

So how is it that this one-time rogue
came to be the darling of Valley View
Vaulters? Well, if Sherman remembers
that he was once called outlaw, he’s
too much of a' gentleman to reveal his
past. One can see that by the way he
lowers his head so even the smallest
vaulter can pay her respect. The team
clusters around the blaze-faced horse
at every opportunity, clinging affec-
tionately to his legs and tumbling be-
neath his feet. He likes being appreci-
ated. He even likes the rows of braids
and bows sewn into his mane for com-
petition, arching his neck and step-
ping proudly when it’s his turn to
perform. His hoofbeats are the heart-
beat of the team. How could any
horse, even a former outlaw, not re-
spond to that kind of love? El

 




CHICAGO TRIBUNE - April 4, 1986

Gorilla ' warfare . ends
Keeper bitten as 3 Lincoln Park Zoo

1
I — .

By Jack HOUStOn . Ch;;l]:$,’wiolrried ab‘gut that big
Like .50 many other parents, Fred grudges: “Frgiiiles hseilsl é ggddbragckmi

and Kisuma dec1ded that Thursday hope he didn’t hurt his back ” °

would be a good day to take their The escapade had a few tense

2-year-old out for a morning stroll
. - moments b f '
I:But unlike those other parents, their 2-yeare0105e 153:1: ﬂigmcgaigg
1 Kid, 27, and Kisuma, 10, 3T6 gOI‘II- back into their three—story cage
as. And they should never have left Zoo director Lester Fisher

their cage in Lincoln Park Zoo’s -
, stressed that the gorillas, thou h out
Great Ape House, though they of their cage, were always coriﬁned.

never did reach a public area. .

Fisher,.who is investigatin the es-
1.3mm m... .3555? eeae
had bitten the hand that feeds h'my the cage area twice over the night,

. . . . 1 ‘ ﬁnding nothing out of the ordinary.
At Grant Hospital, awaiting SUF- They entered the area about mid-
gery for a fractured left hand, Fred’s night and at 6 a m to care f0
pal for the last 25 years, Jim Hig— sick chimp . i r a
gins, was concerned only about the “We ' 99
ape. assume human error,

 

 

 

1.4;... , - .1 6’

Tribune photo by Phil’Gree

My dad, the runaway

Two-year-old Hope looks up to her father Fred at L'
incoln

Park Zoo Thursday after the gorillas returned to the cage

from Wthh they briefly escaped along with Hope's mother,

Kisuma. 5:933:30 bit a keeper.

. V

quietly

apes escape

Fisher said Thursday. “Nothing was
broken, and if the door had been
locked, it wouldn’t have been found
unlocked. The door was not secured
the night before.”

Mark Rosenthal, curator of mam-
mals, said the area is “secured all
the time with double—locking de—
vices. The apes know how to oper—
ate the devices, but not how to un-
lock them.” ‘

Higgins, head keeper of the apes,
discovered the breakout about 7
am. as he walked into a mainte—
nance area behind the cages. The
area is supposed to be separated
from the apes by a locked door, but
when Higgins walked by, he saw a
gorilla. . _

 

~$.. ‘5

Tribune photo by George Thompson

Keeper James Higgins awaits treatment at Grant
Hospital after being bitten by Fred the ape, his
friend for 25 years. “I’m worried about that big
chicken,” said Higgins of his primate pal.

 




Higgins told Dr. Albert Rosanova,
a Chicago Park District physician,
that as he entered the area, he saw
Kisuma, a ZOO-pound female born
at the zoo in 1976.

He walked toward her, but was
knocked to the ﬂoor from behind.
He rolled over and stretched out his
arms to defend himself, and that’s
when he was bitten. _

“I’ve been a friendof Freddie for
the last 25 years,” Higgins said at
the hospital. “But I didn’t see him.
He came up from the blind side.’.’

He said the ape’s behavior was
unusual. In fact, Higgins said, in a
game he plays with the ape, Fred
approaches the keeper, but when
the keeper moves toward the gorilla,
it runs away.

DEKALB NEIGHBOR (Atlanta) - April 9, 1986

.“He’s‘ usually a big chicken,” Hig-
gins said of the 380-pound male-
“After he bit me, he backed off.”

Fred, a silverback gorilla, heads a
group of l4, the largest gorilla fami-
ly at the zoo. Hope, the youngest,
was born in September, 1983, and
now weighs 48 pounds.

. After he was bitten, Higgins, hold-
ing his bleeding hand, ran from the
secured zone into the public area
and'shouted to an attendant, Vince
:Vlund’ay, “Call for help. A gorilla is
oose.

Zoo workers called an ambulance
and notiﬁed authorities. “He looked
like he was cut pretty good,” Mun-
day said. “He told me the gorilla
came up behind him. He was wor—
ned about getting out.”

Zoo keepers sealed off the area,
and after about two hours the goril—‘
las'returned to their cage, saving
zoo keepers from resorting to tran-
quilizer darts. ’

- To get the apes back where they
belonged, keepers opened the doors
to 'three cages leading from the
maintenance area, said Dennis Pate,
assistant curator of mammals. The
gorillas eventually walked into an
orangutan’s cage, then. into their
own. '

The incident was the zoo’s ﬁrst

‘A Primate Affoir’

Painting one the large jungle murals at the April 1 ‘Color the-Zoo
Wonderful’ preview party at Grant Park, with his artistic rendition
of wild animals, is Zoo Atlanta'_‘Di'reetor Terry Maple of Stone
Mountain. Zoo supporters from around metro Atlanta and members

major breakout since July, 1982,
when Otto, a 450—pound gorilla,
climbed-an ll—foot partition and
walked around the zoo.

of the Atlanta Zoological Society attended the April 1 preview party
with paint brush in hand to kick off the May 3 Zoo Atlanta
fundraising gala, “Beastly Feast 1986.” Proceeds from the ﬁgs-per-
person affair will be earmarked for the acquiSItion of animals,
education and conservation at the Atlanta zoo. The event Will begin
at 7 pm. at the zoo, 800 Cherokee Ave. Cocktails, dinner and daneing
are on the evening’s agenda, along with a tour of the Children 8
International Farm. More information on the benefit sponsored by
Ford Motor Company is available at 624—1235. (Staff photo by Byron

W31
.8“

’ ”L, g .3“. .'«'~..,:'_;W ,~ ;_ 2e21,};
,«. m; 2: -- 2-, .. ‘r i
4., , HM. , m, min .- , ,3 i .. . . .

 




 

 

THE SUNDAY TIMES — London, England - March 23, 1986

Official agreed

to sell birds .
for smuggling

A GOVERNMENT ofﬁcial
employed to enforce laws
prohibiting illicit trading in
endangered birds has offered
to sell rare falcons for
smuggling. Although she
knew the birds might be
illegally taken out of the
country, she agreed to supply
three peregrine falcons, which
are on the endangered list, for
£15,000 each after an ap-
proach by an Insight re-
porter, posing as an Arab
buyer.

Although she called in
customs ofﬁcers last week
after she began to suspect the
customer was not what he
seemed, her employers, the
Department of Environment,
say they are “highly
embarrassed” by the allega-
tions and are considering an
investigation.

The official, Jemima
Parry-Jones, had also admit-
ted having links with an
international bird smuggier.

Parry-Jones, 37, is a part-
time inspector with the
Department of the Environ-
ment wildlife inspectorate.
She is eminent in the world of
rare birds, runs the inter-
nationally famous Falconry
Centre in Newent,
Gloucestershire, lectures on
falconry and bird welfare to
breeders and enthusiasts, and
has publicly stated many
times that it is abhorrent for
people to make 'enormous
proﬁts selling birds of prey.

Buying and selling birds of
prey in Britain is not in itself
illegaL but under the 1976
Endangered Species Import
and Export Act it is illegal to
export them without the
correct licences. To try to
obtain these licences for
birds, such as peregrine
falcons, requires an enormous
amount of paperwork and
even then, according to the
department, it is unlikely
they will be granted.

When Parry-Jones was
first approached by our re-
porter two weeks ago she
warned that this was the case
and someone leaving Britain
with unlicensed peregrines
was running a big risk. But
she agreed to the deal,
adding: “What you do with
the birds after I’ve sold them
is entirely your business.”

She was asked if she could
supply gyr falcons — among
the world’s rarest and most
threatened birds of prey. She
put us in touch with Steven
Baptiste, an American dealer
who she knew already had
convictions for illegal trans-
actions in endangered species.
He offered to smuggle as
many of the gyrs as we
wanted.

Last Friday, 10 days after
the initial meeting, we went to
see Parry-Jones again but
she had changed her mind
and two customs ofﬁcers were
waiting at the Falconry Cen-
tre when we arrived. It later
emerged that she had con-
tacted the customs ofﬁcers
and her superiors in the
department only the day
before.

She admitted that when
she had ﬁrst been approached
she was ready to accept

 

£15,000 per bird as she had a

£145,000 overdraft and
wanted to build a new aviary
for her eagles.

The Sunday Times also
discovered that Baptiste had
pleaded guilty in the United
States Federal Court in
December to three charges of
trafficking in protected birds
of prey. He was ﬁned $50,000
after admitting, along with an
accomplice, that he had been
responsible for illegally
exporting and selling birds of
prey from the United States
through Canada to buyers in
the Middle East.

In August 1982 Baptiste
had sold ﬁve wild gyr falcons
and four other birds to Arabs
for $200,000. Later that year
Baptiste returned to the
Middle East with another ﬁve
birds which he sold for
$120,000. When we spoke to
him, following the meeting
with Parry-Jones, he boasted
of smuggling six gyrs into
Dubai last year.

Baptiste was arrested in an
American and Canadian cus-
toms swoop in 1984. Parry-
Jones told us she had known
Baptiste since 1978 and had
stayed with him on her trips
to the United States. She

 

'7. p '_ V:
&.-P.\:v~_.-.->.- .....x-mi «4.1:. ..., .,.. .... a,..,. .
Parry-Jones: she called customs

claimed he was an honest
man who had been unfairly
treated by the courts.

Britain‘s wildlife inspec-
torate was set up in 1983 to
police the Wildlife and
Countryside Act and enforce
a complex array of other laws
and regulations laid out in the
Convention on International
Trade in Endangered Species.
The laws are designed to
protect rare birds from
maltreatment and prevent
endangered species from
becoming extinct. The task of
the department’s inspectors is
to monitor the welfare of the
species.

A spokesman for the wild-
life inspectorate said yes-
terday that no accusations
had previously been made
about Parry-Jones. However,
he admitted it was
embarrassing that for 10 days
she had not informed her
superiors that she had been
approached by a customer
who wanted to smuggle rare
falcons.

 




      
  
      
         
      
    
      
         
  
  
   
 
  
   
  
   
  
  
 
  
  
   
   
   

THE SUNDAY TIMES - London, England - March 23, 1986

MExposedzacallous trade

in rare

birds

1,, THIS MAN is Ram Dhan.
; He makes £250,000 3 year
- selling rare and endangered
birds, and is one of many
dealers in a global network

"health division, as all birds
“also require a. licence from it.
. Stringent inspecticfi‘fngefar:
inist sta or '

' that flouts international ef- Taggelfizemis gtryanted. They “ I can get you peregrine
forts to protect species from “require a compulsory 35-day falcons from South America

Egg: extinction. Quarantine period in for £25,000, or Saker falcons;
Dhan is the middle man. premises deemed suitable by from Africa for £20,000. -
He buys birds from trappers them as well as weekly have Just returned from
and smugglers from the ‘vetin’ary visits. It is both _ Hong Kong where I have

Arctic to South America and ' - ' d costl 95131315th links With a. new
time consuming an y bird-catcher. I am the biggest

  
    

sells them to collectors in 7 nd thus creates an at- .
Britain, Europe and the ‘fmsphere in which the smug— i111“! most rgpgmble deallerag:
Middle East. The customers ‘ h Sunda ‘5 pa 0. ermany.

glers thrive. T e y also reliable to my

Times investigated {the net- customers ”
t e men .

$133133: met two 0 0 THE COURIER: An un-

0 THE DEALER: From his ___

small shop '7' the ZOO Cen- employed labourer, John

- was? “2:38;: Cor swag?

oc 's cm 0 , ,

Eichenstrasse in Bottrop, XStThe Sunday Times: “I

‘ Ram Dhan offers customers heard there was a driving job

hands for rare buds 0f prey» a SpeCial discoun} on buds going. and when I was tQId

\J “to take away. For a that I would be smuggling

premium he “ill-1 hsrgiuggl: birds into. Britain Ifiust burst

3“”? $.32: ‘33}; r33.” a 0m geiglg-od‘ghggﬁigtg u;

°°~' . . smu e o .

mere £30 for a Pekin robin to thought!”

range from small-time avi-
/ ' arists, eager to add to their
collections. and purchasing
rare ﬁnches or Pekin robins
for £30. to expert collectors
ready to pay £1,600 for a
sulphur-crested cockatoo to two
decorate a conservatory.
Huge amounts also change

 

\W

      

 
 

uch as falcons, buzzards and

seriously threatens the exis-
tence of many species.
In Britain the Department

kestrels, which rich enthu-
siasts buy for up to £25,000
in Britain and £80,000 in the
Middle East. If fully grown
birds are too big to hide,
incubated eggs are smuggled
instead.

- British smugglers arrive at
Dhan‘s door every week in
the small town of Bottrop on
the Rhur in West Germany.
They uncover compartments
in the panels of adapted
vehicles, cruelly pack the
birds in polystyrene boxes,
and drive back via cross—
Channel ferries to sell their
contraband for double the
price they pay. Some of the
birds have to be drugged.
Others, if kept in dark,

conﬁned spaces, tend not to
make much noise.

Many consignments are not
afforded the dubious comfort
of a custom-made box but are
stuffed into stockings and
hidden inside spare tyres.
Every year thousands of rare
birds die from shock or
suffocation in transit but in a
business with few risks and
rich pickings, losses are more
than made up on the next
trip.

Tim Inskip, the senior
research officer for the W ild-
life Trade Monitoring Unit,
said:“The trade is a major
problem which is of great
concern to us. It is a highly
organised racket.”

Experts estimate the world-
wide trade is a multi-million-
pound business which

of the Environment is respon-
sible for implementing the
Convention on International
Trade in Endangered Species
(CITES) regulations. The
convention, which is supposed
to be enforced in all countries
and is enshrined in a number
of complex laws, including
Britain's Wildlife and
Countryside Act, is made up
of two sections.

The first deals with the
rarest birds, including all
birds of prey and some exotic
parrots that are on the verge
of extinction. Commercial
trading of all birds in this
category is forbidden.

The second applies to all
other birds. Trade in birds in
this category is permitted but

 

~—

 

restricted. In order to import
a bird under this section an
application must be made to
the department for a licence.
Proof must be submitted of
the origin of the bird to
establish that the bird in
question was bred in captiv-
ity. i

Seldom are licences for
large consignments of birds
granted. A department
spokesman said last week:
“We consider each individual
application on its own merits
and are entitled to visit the
premises where the birds are
to be kept."

'Apart from satisfying the
department and the authori-
ties abroad, the legitimate
bird importer must also meet
the requirements of the agri-
culture ministry‘s animal

Continued on page 4

£25,000 for a South Ameri-
can peregrine falcon.
A Sunday Times reporter
called on Dhan in the guise
of a wealthy enthusiast Wish-
ing to buy in bulk to fill a
new aviary. Dhan boasted: “I
have been in the trade for 1.4
years and I make a big
killing. As far as the authori-
ties here are concerned, I run
a legitimate business, import-
ing and exporting birds,
animals and reptiles. But

what they don’t know is that ”

many of the birds I have here
are extremely rare and have
entered the country. illegally.

“Getting the birds into
Britain is easy. I must. be
sending around 150 birds
minimum every week. Most
are taken by enthusiasts or
hard smugglers who sell them
for big profits.”

. Dhan wrote down a sample
price list of birds With
increased charges to cover the
smuggling charges. .

“You can buy them direct
from me. I will advise you
how to load them in carsand
smuggle them into Britain. I
can assure you, I can show
you ways that will guarantee
you will not be discovered by
customs.

“ Alternatively, if you buy
in bulk, say 50 birds, I will
arrange everything. ' It Will
cost you twice the price and I
want an extra £100 for the
courier who will drive the
car. You won’t make so
much profit this way because
you aren’t taking the risks
but you will still make a
considerable amount.

He was offered £300 a trip

simply to drive a vehicle over
to West Germany and back.
Alternatively, he was told
that he could keep a couple
of the birds and sell them
himself, earning much more
than £300.

Tonge was caught on
January 1985, by
Felixstowe customs investi-
gators when checks revealed
he was carrying 33 rare

parrots hidden in secret
compartments of his speCially
doctored car. He was fined
£2,074 by Felixstowe‘mag-
istrates after pleading guilty
to fraudulently importing live
parrots worth around £7,500.

 

He also admitted transport-
ing the birds ina manner
likely to cause injury and
unnecessary suffering.

Tonge told the court he

{had made only one smuggling

trip to West Germany, but he
admitted to us that he made
a total of three trips. He told
us how his boss - whom he
refused to name because he is
currently helping him pay his
fine — gave him £300 to buy
an old Renault car. He was
then given a diagram illus-
trating how to manufacture
secret compartments under

the floor of the car.

Tonge said: “I had to cut
open parts of the car ﬂoor to
make small storage places
under the front and rear seats
and then I placed hinges in to
make doors. The compart-
ments were then covered

  




 

over with carpet. I'even
made a special compartment
in the car’s petrol tank. The
Renault was specially chosen
because it can so easily be
adapted for smuggling.”

On his first trip Tonge
smuggled 40 parrots, includ-
ing African greys, blue-
-fronted Amazons and black-
headed crakes. An African
grey parrot costs about £70
on the Continent, and the
same bird would sell in
Britain at,around £275; a
blue-fronted Amazon costs
around £55 abroad and sells
at around £250 here; a black-

headed crake costs about £65
abroad and sells at £150 here.

Tonge accepted two of the
40 parrots which he had
smuggled, then advertised the
birds in the magazine, Cage
and Aviary Birds, and re-
ceived an abundance of calls.
He earned £500 from the sale
of the two parrots, he said.

On the second trip Tonge
returned with 36 birds and
cleared customs with ease.
He kept two blue-fronted
Amazon parrots as his pay-
ment, then sold the birds as a
pair through the same maga-
zine.

On his final trip Tonge was
caught. He said: “I know that
the person who I worked for
is still running birds from the
Continent using new couri-
ers. There‘s a lot of money to
be made all round and he’d
be stupid to stop.”

 

 

          

 

’20
. .: 13‘“ 6

Ct‘ .(mnﬁ'l

68 85

\\

 

')

                         

\l

 

(“"09
013‘ '

  

\ Km w 39

()8 I

A 47508
\ mk “own“
005?
3 l . 0 '6‘3l

1 AC“

)05“

H3“ 7‘.
totem“ ‘0‘

“you‘ll
\gt‘hC \“

\Bt

    

90‘»
BM‘
()ml

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

\

Ram Dhan (left), who works from West Germany, John Tonge, who carried the cargo, and the documents of their trade

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

BOSTON MAGAZINE - April 1986

/.- ’4

A tender moment between Tess Tomlin and Dr. Eckstein.

It’s a Dog’s
Life

April, according to Chase’s An-
nual Events, is “Pets Are Won-
derful Month.” And what
better way to celebrate it than
with a brief chat with Warren
Eckstein, the world’s most fa-
mous pet psychiatrist?

In the past 16 years the 37-
year-old New York City—based
animal therapist has treated
more than 30,000 neurotic pets
all over the country. Eckstein’s
services don’t come cheap,
however. A one-hour session
with the traveling pet shrink
costs between $200 and $400
plus expenses.

Eckstein does make monthly
house calls to a stable of clients
in Boston, but the bulk of his
business comes from Manhat-
tan and LA, where many of
his clients are celebrities. What
are the hang-ups of the stars’
pets? We wanted the poop, so
Eckstein gave us the scoop.

Dangerﬁeld. “Rodney has a
classic line: ‘Talk about no re-
spect, my dog closes his eyes
before he mounts my leg.’ But
when he called me, he said
Kino, his poodle, was leaving

‘tootsie rolls’ on the ﬂoor. And
the dog was urinating every-
where in his New York apart—
ment. The poodle was confused
more than anything else. Enter-
tainers do a considerable
amount of traveling, and noth-

life. We set up a program and
that resolved the problem.”
Tomlin. “Lily has a Norwich
terrier named Tess. At home
Lily practices many different
personalities. Therefore Tess
was dealing with 20 different
owners. She was with Ernes-
tine one minute, and with
someone else the next. It
wasn’t. easy and the dog was a
little insecure.

“I told Lily that she had to be
Lily Tomlin at least 15 minutes
a day. Tess and Lily have be-
come real good friends. Tess is
on Broadway with Lily right
now.”

Letterman. “I met Dave’s
two dogs, Bob and Stan, in Ma—
libu. When he got the ‘Late
Night’ job in New York, the
two dogs had a lot of difﬁculty
adjusting from the laid-back
pace of Malibu Beach. They
had problems dealing with oth-
er dogs and with the noises on
the'streets of New York City.

“I desensitized and socialized
Dave’s dogs by taking them out
for short walks, and by using
recorded sound effects to ad-
just the dogs to the idea that
the noises on the street were
not threatening to them.

“The amazing part about
working with Letterman’s dogs

is that they have the same exact
personality as he has. I swear, if
I’d met Bob for the ﬁrst time on
the street, I would’ve known
that he was Letterman’s dog.
He even has the space between

 

ing was consistent in the dog’s

his teeth.”

a” set“ quomow Magi). noun )1er

'saeaﬁ .103

H ’SW
-00 outs nntu
udou

q Kaine

[Jo/tag u! mo pue UMOQ,, ut
“sueuinq mssaoons

poomﬁnon 01 Su

~80Q am JO Kueui

0[aq swans $5.133

‘KuemieN '13
p paumouaJ-pliom Kq
.ip pue tom ‘uiwpeau,

queaq auiueo A

am am J0 8915mm”
amen KIJOAOQ liq paieiado

pue ‘Kiaﬁﬁoa Bill 1e
tu aiatu, 'uedep u; so;

q Xe
e1} 10 me; 9; exam, moment

810 plenum ImM sms

“snowed pue q

“'5“!!! K
)0 apostda ue 9

ill
‘axgw Sunsets

[ll

2) 18d e lo 1qu

319an main
in ass 1 '0p

ssaoons JO )[Ullq out uo st Keven 'sw

sSop Buttuooaﬁ uaaq se
493300 astqou

uoa lSlllBJlJOd 30
sﬁunuted ‘seunes K

180w s,

.‘

'(Jooueo 10 patp a
'stuopisai SIllH K113
Jaq JO 111188.! Bill aq
Il am PJBMOl apnlille

noqe am Kath uaqm apud ssn
'sw tern paisaﬁﬁns am

(mm dn gnd main aas 1

assist

dxa Suol

Keux satoads uetun

ueqt [Mal iuoiamp aloqm e uo mom
. pope! shame};

I “3.18 Kain ieqm JO} we

..'s30p new 1
aSpnl' 1,, 'aidoad iomo ueqi assom ou 318

nzi-qtqs asoum “ioqea esz es

qieap out [man K19 pue umop

semmeiao mes aus
mag 01 amso

eas
noK

tuo am 8!
pue paumo

(I am pansm am

sSop JO 310.1 out uo annoads

'pIJOM am at eds

'suos.iad JO satoads
‘A

"e o: siad SJGJaJd Roxie}; 'sw “slap

-ue} [eunue [[eo nod

Kantian 'sw

Kain ‘

SiodedsmaN iappla—iqﬁgux

119M933 uesns K9

 

 

dad 10; Bunion ~— sa'IaoNV SO'I

‘Kiaﬁﬁoq BILL "£13330

‘poomﬁuon u;

‘ 191m 8.19%.. 'pemus

.t'awll out [[9 email 8.18M

uatn mum 'quq 9 new Jenni/h
986i ‘9 Italian - NOImtttsnoo/tvmnor

‘tneq e iatsuieq .toq aAe8 KoxieH ‘dnd

pue'] sn10'1 ui sted new. pue senuqeleo eqt Bugﬁﬁoa

saw mun serum); ,smmugm Ame”
am no panaom aqs “'Kungaieo KJaA,,'

ﬁrm/We damn/22A, ate—9e

Rescued alligator set free
in new Okefenokee home

 

 

By Jingle Davls
Special to The Journal

An abused 5-foot-long alligator
named Dickens, rescued 20 months
ago by Boston’s Museum of Science
from an owner who had wired its
jaws shut, found a new home Mon-
day in Georgia’s Okefenokee
Swamp.

John Schroer, who manages the
Okefenokee National Wildlife Ref-
uge, said the alligator was released
at 8 am. in a waterway off one of
the swamp’s canoe trails near Folk-
ston, where it is not likely to en-
counter many humans.

“He’s tucked away in the

swamp,” Schroer said.

The alligator was given 3 send-
off party Saturday night by several
troops of Girl Scouts who got to
know it at weekend museum classes
in Boston, said Paul Fontaine, who
helps run the classes.

“It was Dickens’ last class be-
fore freedom,” Fontaine said. “They
hung flowers and banners and rib
bons from his cage, all saying,
‘Goodby’e, Dickens.’ ”

Dickens came to the museum as
an abused young alligator, its snout
wrapped with wire and its scales
damaged from malnutrition, Fon-
taine said.

 




time 24, Section 1 *

"JiV'F

éGirl, man hurt as 2 new dog attacks reported

Houston Chronicle Wednesday, March 26, was

 

Liy JAMES E. BARLOW
and CATHY GORDON
*iouston Chronicle

 

At least 100 stitches were needed to close the
grace wounds of a 6-year-old southeast Houston girl
‘if‘t‘er she was attacked by a dog that was excited by
a itten.

The attack was the third time in two days that
dogs have attacked children in the Houston area.

Charli Guidry, daughter of Mary Gardner, 8044
sleadowbrook, was attacked late Monday after-
noon as she petted the dog, an 80-pound Labrador
retriever-Great Dane mix, which had been chained
in a neighbor’s yard.

“The bites were so deep, the fatty tissues were
Grking out,” the child‘s mother said. Charli will
' ugly undergo plastic surgery to repair the dam-
:ge to her face. Gardner said.

Charli said she was petting the dog and “there

as a eat there. The cat scratched the dog and
seats what made him bite me."

The dog‘s owner, Ken Nabors, said the dog is
gilayful, but not vicious. “He‘s just too big to play

river,

certainly not old age.”

with kids. We‘ve told kids not. to play with him."

He said he would try to help pay for the $1000
medical treatment Charli received as a result of
the attack.

Gardner said she had moved to her present home
after her 7-year-old son, Dwayne, was attacked by
a dog about a year ago.

Earlier Monday, Barry DeGeorge J r., 4. of Willis,
was attacked by a 40-pound Labrador-German
shepherd mix, as he played with his cousin in the
Crystal Creek subdivision in Cut and Shoot.

The child underwent almost two hours of surgery
for his injuries Monday at a Conroe hospital. He is
to be released today.

April Taylor, near whose home the attack took
place, said the boys were playing when the dog ran
into the yard and knocked Barry to the ground.
“Then he started biting. him all over the face," she
said.

Taylor’s son. Jack, drove the dog away by shoot-
ing it with a BB gun.

Mrs. DeGeorge said she had just entered the
Taylor home when she heard her son scream.

“There was blood on his face, shirt and pants. lt

insp

miles up the
vestigators also too
centrati

be toxic.

i end.

was terrible. I thought. ‘Oh. my God. His face is
damaged forever.” His skin was split wide open
below his eye. I drove him to the hospital and my
cousin (April Taylor) held a rag over his face.
Every time I looked at him, I’d cry."

Doctors told Mrs. DeGeorge the boy easily could
have lost an eye in the attack.

The dog. Boy. belongs to Taylor's neighbor. Ma-
son Wagner, who was keeping it for a Houston man.
The Houston man has instructed Wagner to have
the animal destroyed.

“It. wasn‘t even really full-grown yet," Mrs. Wag-
ner said. “it was still a bit of a pup. He's never
attacked anybody. He wasn’t a vicious dog."

Taylor, however. said the dog was always run-
ning loose. “This is the first dog I‘ve ever been
scared of." she said. ,

Sunday. a 6-year-old Texas City girl, Chrisy
Meyer. was mauled by a dog as she stepped from a
church has.

“It was like I was having a dream, and it wasn‘t
really happening, Chrisy said.

The dog‘s owner. emergency room nurse Sharon
Richards. described her pet as a “friendly dog."

:. vision.
cently

Statt Writer

By Billy Mallard

 

 

Deaths of

ATLANTA JOURNAL - 4/11/86
or eight inches deep.

they were standing in water not six

spots downstream, she said.
, “They look like they fell just where

spokeswoman Lucy Justus.
the water at the mill and at two

river tests
A report by a Jackson County
' man that more than 70 of his goats
have died in the past three weeks
, has prompted an investigation of
water in the Oconee River by the
% state Environmental Protection Di-
on corduroy products, said EPD
ing any chemicals that contain con-

: did not investigate until last week-
sued a permit that prohibited dump-

were missing three weeks ago but
reported killed by pollution in the
area and that the mill had been is-

take several days, Ms. Justus said.
But she noted that no fish had been

Harold Ford, who lives in south.
ern Jackson County between Jeffer-
son and Athens, said that all but a
farm, a facility that uses a blue dye

The analysis of the samples will

 

 

few of his 75 goats have died re-
and that he has found a third

of his herd dead in the river behind
his farm. He first noticed that some
On Thursday, EPD investigators
ected the Jefferson Mills a few
ons of anything that would

, On Sunday, Ford said, he went
to the river and photographed 25 or
30 goats lying on both sides of the
several with blue-stained fur.
something that killed them, and it’s

river from Ford’s
k samples from

The in-
There’s

 




Bill 0. Aldridge. Executive Director

OFFICERS AND

BOARD OF DIRECTORS

Gerald Skoog. President

Texas Tech University, Lubbock
LeRoy R. Lee, President-elect

James Madison Memorial High School
Madison. WI

Alice J. Moses. Retirin President

The Laboratory Schoo s

The University of Chicago, IL

DIVISION DIRECTORS

Mary C. McCurdy
Preschool/Elementary School
Lincoln, NE Public Schools
Bonnie F. Brunkhorst
Middle/Junior High School
Lexington. MA Public Schools
Barbara E. Schulz

High School

Seattle. WA Public Schools
Emmett L. Wright

College

Kansas State University. Manhattan
James A. Shymansky

Research

The University of Iowa, Iowa City
Mary E. Corcoran

Supervision

Winthrop, MA Public Schools
Betty M. Burchett

Teacher Education

University of Missouri. Columbia

DISTRICT DIRECTORS

George A. Weygand. District I
Bridgewatur. MA State College
Leonard C. Blessing. District II
Millburn. NJ Public Schools
Kenneth E. Maclary, District III
Conrad Middle School. Wilmington. DE
Jessie M. Jones. District IV

Wilson. NC Public Schools

Carol 8. Collins, District V
Jefferson High School

Tampa, FL

Victor J. Mayer. District VI

The Ohio State University, Columbus
E. Keith Wright, District VII
Hopkins. MN Public Schools

Alan M. Voelker. District VII]
Northern Illinois University. DeKalb
Lowell J. Bethel. District IX

The University of Texas. Austin
Mary H. Beavis. District X
Albuquerque. NM Public Schools
Jannice Link-Jobe. District XI
Central High School .
Independence. OR Public Schools
Andrew Baldwin. District XII

Palo Alto. CA Public Schools

DIVISION AFFILIATE PRESIDENTS
Marvin Druger. AETS

Syracuse University. Syracuse. NY
Barry Van Deman. CESI

Museum of Science and Industry
Chicago, IL

Jack A. Gerlovich. CSSS

Iowa Department of Public Instruction
Des Moines

David P. Butts. NARST

University of Georgia. Athens
Harold Pratt, NSSA

Jefferson County Public Schools
Lakewood. CO

Marjorie Gardner. SCST

University of California. Berkeley

An Affiliate of the American
Association for the
Advancement of Science

NATIONAL SCIENCE TEACHERS ASSOCIATION

1742 Connecticut Avenue, NW, Washington. DC 20009 (202) 328-5800

April 2, 1986

[ear Cblleague:

At this time, I have no plans to ask the Board of Directors to
reconsider the NSTA.position paper on "dee of Practice on Use of
Animals in Schools." Since the code was revised and adOpted by
the Board of Directors in July, 1985, there have been very few
unsolicited complaints fromimembers of our organization. Thus, I
plan no action on the code during the remaining termiof my office.

I amiamere that the revision of the code has aroused a variety of
individuals and special interest groups, some of whom have
solicited complaints. This I regret, inasmuch as we need the
energy and expertise of these individuals and groups to improve
science education in this nation. I an also aware that improper
use of living anhnals occurs in the nation's schools. The NSTA
code was developed to prevent these abuses, and allegations that
changes in our code are responsible for these improper practices
are unfounded.

NSTA.does not sponsor, conduct, or sanction any science fairs. we
do not provide awards or any type of recognition to science fair
‘winners and their teachers. Abuses of animals that typically
occur at these science fairs would violate our current code of
practice. Thus, it is incorrect to associate either our
organization or our policies with the animal abuses that occur at
a given science fair. (Obviously, it is our hope that sponsors of
science fairs would use and follow our code. However, this often
does not occur.

In closing, I ask that you not argue that the changes in our code
are responsible for the improper experiments that have been
conducted on animals. [escriptions I have read of abusive
experiments clearly violate our code and allegations that NSTA is
encouraging such experiments are reprehensible to me.

Sincerely,

,/05:’£2 /_
E W/
Gerald Skoog
NSTA.President, 1985-86

Qy‘tkNST‘A Natzﬁr‘al FOF‘.\I’3."‘+;;’5" CT-“n :rnn.r~ic-“I\ fhcnupﬁ?“:rt fﬂrt‘r‘vwfﬁ 7:...70 10925

 




age 18, Section 2

ill- , ‘ (I
gt; ”VI-3%.": 5“
3 ..

an a: 75
I

\
.3 '
3%.;

Just a miniature

Lianna Lapierre offers pieces of watermelon to Hanford swine that weighed 5 pounds when

her ZOO-pound pet pig, Squiggy, while Mickie, a
basset hound, looks on. Squiggy is a miniature

Houston Chronicle

 

Sunday, March 30, 1986

tionate, clean and minds very well.

. lad/U E
. m _
CM/{Xﬂ/Vﬂ, 6%, Sunday. Apni s, 1986 “in 0-5

Kindhearted lobster winner
finds it a home at Marineland

Tho Associated Pm:

PALOS VERDES -- If it
wasn’t for a retired man with a
heart that melted like butter,
Lenny the lobster would have
found himself in hot water and
on a dinner platter by now.

Allen Nelson, 56, of Garden
Grove won Lenny this week in a
supermarket promotional cam-
paign designed to attract inter-
est in the store’s seafood section.

Lenny, who weighs a hulking
19.2 pounds, hails from Maine
and is 40 to 60 years old,-was
displayed in a tank at the Vons
market in Garden Grove. Cus-
tomers were asked to guess his
weight and the one who came
closest won him for dinner.

Nelson won the contest out of
3,000 applicants, but one look at

Lenny and his heart softened. He

Associated Prat

couldn’t bear to see the crusta-
cean cooked. .

“It was just his size and the
way he walked around the tank
like he owned the place,” Jim
Reed, manager of the seafood
department, said yesterday. “He

adopted a year ago. Lapierre says the pig is affec-

had the other lobsters quaking in
their boots.”

Nelson instead decided to do-
nate Lenny to Marineland, the
sea aquarium park in Palos
Verdes, 25 miles southwest of
Los Angeles. He was sent to his
new home Friday and seems to
be taking to the surroundings,
assistant curator Scott Ruther-
ford said yesterday.

However, Lenny must be kept
isolated from other lobsters be-
cause they tend to chomp on
each other with their pincers,
Rutherford said. And having sur-
vived one brush with death, Ma-
rineland wants to make sure
Lenny gets to live out some of
his remaining 20 to 30 years.

He’s given crabs, shrimp and
other shellfish to chew on in-
stead.

“I guess he didn’t have the
heart to take him home," Ruth-
erford said of Nelson’s decision.
“It was probably a wise choice
on his part. When lobsters get
older, the meat gets tough.”

 




COMMERCIAL APPEAL - April 1, 1986

 

 

 

 

With paw in hand . . .

Laura Ramage of 3088 Bay Leaf adopted a female Yorkshire Terrier, one of 198 dogs taken last
month from the home of Jane Haley. The dogs were put up for adoption yesterday, and 103 of
them had been adopted by late afternoon. Sue Vandiver, housing supervisor for the Memphis
Animal Shelter, said people were “lined up all the way down the street” to inquire about the
animals. Though she did not know how many people came to the shelter, she said, “The public
response to this has been so overwhelming that we’re going to work until everyone has had a
chance to adopt.” The shelter has no set limit on how long it will keep animals before destroying
them, she added. ' ‘

 




HOUSTON CHRONCILE - March 31, 1986

 

lgVeierinarian allergic to animals

0A - ’
w.

A

 

By JON VERBOON

f Houston Chronicle

 

After more than 20 years as a veterinarian. Barry
'Philipp had a thriving southwest Houston practice doing
a job he loved. * .

But because of circumstances that sound like a bad
joke. last year he had to sell out. Philipp had become
dangerously allergic to animals and. at 54. his days as a

__ vet were over. -

“I‘d stay up at night thinking ‘What am I going to do?‘

. because. at my age. being realistic. I’d be close to 60

before I got any training (at another profession). and then

. nobody would want to hire me" because of age. Philipp

said. ,
Philipp's case is unusual but by no means unheard of in ’
his profession. He said studies have estimated that about ,

.5 percent of all veterinarians suffer animal allergies in
Lvarying degrees. And the severity of the allergic reac-
tions tends to increase as exposure continues. .
Philipp said he decided to become a veterinarian when
he was about 20. At that time. he was aware of some

'_ allergies he had. mostly to some pollens. grasses and. to

a lesser degree. cat fur.
“It was only the typical (reaction) — sneezing. itchy

' eyes. runny nose. I could live with that because you can

just take antihistamines.” he said.

“It took another 10 years before I became highly aller-
gic to the dog." he said. '

This time. asthma became part of his problem. It
worsened over the next decade until his physician had to
prescribe steroids. In the last three or four months of his
veterinarian practice. Philipp said. “I was itching con-
stantly. especially at night. to the point that I couldn‘t
sleep until 3 am. or 4 am." when the drugs he was
taking took effect. When he handled dogs. he would some-
times break out in rashes within minutes. And difficult
breathing was a constant problem.

Philipp had been seeing a doctor for treatment of his
allergies since he was about 40.

That was in the early 705. When he turned 50. in 1981.
he decided to be retested for allergies. The testing in.
volves injecting various substances under the skin.
Where a blister forms. an allergic reaction is noted to the
substance. . '

On the test for allergies to dogs. there was a “blister-so
big it was the size of a 50-cent piece. It was huge."
Philipp said.

“Once I was confronted with what my dilemma was.
the doctor highly recommended I get out of practice,“ he
said.

The doctor told Philipp he had treated three or four
other vets and given them the same advice. And to
bolster that advice. an association of veterinarians with
animal allergies released a study showing that non-
veterinarians with asthma lived longer than veterinari-

 

ifakes breather, gives up practice

Steve Campbell / Chronicle

Barry Philipp's asthma and allergic reaction to
animals forced him to give up his Houston
practice as a veterinarian.

ans with asthma. _ ,
Philipp. who owned pets. ultimately had to get rid of
them. He said he doubts if he‘ll ever own a pet again. But
he thought he would still keep up the practice as long as

he could bear it. _

Not until December 1984 did Philipp decide to close his
practice for good. He and his wife had gone to New
Orleans for a few days. a few days without exposure to
animals. .

“It was fantastic.” he recalled. “just being able to
breathe. I told my wife on the plane back that I‘m going
to have to get out of the business.”

Last July. after selling his practice. Philipp retired as
a veterinarian. He is now working for an agency that
places doctors in jobs.

His allergies improved enough to allow him to cut
back his scheduled doses of steroids to a very small
amount. And the reactions have eased to the point that he
now can be around dogs, for example. every few weeks
without serious symptoms.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

New York Times

WASHINGTON —- Nearly 1 million
cows will be heading to the slaughter-
house starting next week as part of a
new program designed to reduce milk
production 7 percent, the Department
of Agriculture announced Friday.

To finance the program, already dis-
puted in the industry, farmers not par~
ticipating will be assessed 3.5 cents for
every gallon they produce.

But even as dairy executives dis- ‘

agreed Friday on whether the experi-
mental program would make a dent in
the government‘s huge supply of sur-
plus dairy products, another dispute
emerged.

The department said that the 13,988
dairy farmers who have entered the
program must brand the faces of their
cows with a hot iron before the animals
are sent to slaughter.

The branding would prevent farmers
from illegally selling their cows to
other dairymen.

Hundreds of animal rights groups
are protesting the department’s re-
quirement, arguing that it is unneces-
sarily cruel.

“A cow has very thin skin on her
cheek, and there is a bundle of nerves
there," said Dr. Michael Fox, scientific
director of the Humane Society of
America. “This is just barbaric cruelty.
There are less painful ways to do the
same thing."

Richard E. Lyng, the secretary of
agriculture, said at a news conference
Friday that he had conferred with

other animal rights group leaders, but
had told them he was not prepared to
change the hot-branding requirement.

ST. LOUIS POSTDISPATCH 4/2/86
1 million cows will die
in milk reduction pl

8 11

“Our people looked into every other
method,” he said. “This has to be done
by April 15. Our conclusion is there’s no
other way to getthe job done.”

The program, a provision of the Food
Security Act of 1985, is designed to re
duce milk production by 12.3 billion
pounds over the next 18 months and
save the government from $2 billion to
$3 billion in costs of buying and storing
surplus milk over the next three years.

Economists say it will not affect the
price of milk for consumers.

Last year, the government bought
more than 16 billion pounds of surplus ,
milk and turned it into a mountain of
powdered milk, cheese and butter
stored in warehouses across the coun4
try at a cost of $2.1 billion.

However the 12 billion-pound reduc-
tion expected this year and next will
not reduce the amount of surplus milk
the government purchases to 4 billion
pounds, said department dairy special-
ists.

Better nutrition, improved breeds
and new technology quickly are raising
productivity of the average cow, ex-
perts say.

Specialists predict that by year’s end,
the government will have purchased
about 8 billion pounds of surplus milk
at a cost of roughly $1 billion.

In return for slaughtering all their
cows, farmers in the program will re-
ceive payment averaging $1.28 for ev-
ery gallon their herds would have
produced this year.

The program requires that the
farmer stay out of the dairy business
for five years. .

The meat will be purchased by the
department and sold for export or do-

 

 

 

 

nated domestically, Lyng said.

M

CHRISTIAN SCIENCE MONITOR - April 9, 1986

LETTERS

Product testing and animal rights

Many thanks for your enlightening
article on the subject of animals used
for product testing, and the search for
alternatives [“Household products and
lab animal testing,” March 20].

Animal-rights advocates have
worked hard for several years to alert
the public and persuade industry to
adopt more-humane alternatives. It is
gratifying to see that encouraging
developments have resulted.

I disagree with Alex Pacheco’s
statement that the amount of money
contributed to “alternatives” research
by corporations is merely “a token."

' The very fact that a corporation
contributes any amount at all is a clear
indication that it is at least aware of the
need for change. I, would rather
interpret the gesture as a positive
action and continue encouraging indus-
try toward greater initiatives to reduce
the suffering of lab animals.
Linda Patric New York

I have been using “cruelty free”
products -— laundry liquid, dishwash-

ing liquid, cleansing powder, soap,

lipstick, rouge, skin cream, and perfume
—— all purchased from companies that
don’t experiment on animals — and am
pleased with the products. Purchasing
such products would hasten the time

when alternative methods to these
hideous experiments would be sought
and found. ' ,
Helen Williamson De Witt, N.Y.

Wood stove repast

I have on occasion written letters
critical of The Christian Science Moni—
tor, but to be fair I must admit that the
most serious criticism I can make of it is

that it is a very difﬁcult newspaper

with which to start a ﬁre.
. Recently, for example, I was shiver-
ing in the early morning trying to get a
fire .gomg in my wood stove with a
Monitor, and was delayed ﬁrst by a
book review , that described some
strains in the feminist movement. Then
I had to stop and read an editorial about
Central America that nicely summed up
the problems the Carter and Reagan
administrations have had with the
Sandinistas. Then I came across a
Melvin Maddocks column, which is
bound to put a stop to my page
crumpling no matter what his subject.
With all of these interruptions, I was
nearly frozen by the time I got the ﬁre
gomg, but I guess that’s a small price to
pay for a newspaper with the Monitor’s
quality.

William G. Dennis Kelso, Wash.

Letters are welcome Only a selection can be pub ' '
_ . lashed, ect to c -
densatwn, and none acknowledged. Please address to “Myers unite?

 




Bat slaughter called a hazard ’
to cash crops and rain forests ~

By United Press International

ASHINGTON — The ba?

nana you eat with break-

fast cereal and the avo-

cado you serve at lunch probably

got to your table with some help-

from a bat, the same furry crea-

ture associated with Halloween
and vampire legends. ‘

This winged wonder is neces-
sary to survival of many tropical
plants, is a whiz at insect control
and can even be cute and friend-
ly, depending on the species; yet
millions of bats are slaughtered
every year, says bat scholar Mer-
lin Tuttle of the University of
Texas at Austin.

The slaughter is decimating
large bat populations worldwide,
eliminating the seed and pollen
distribution system thousands of

different kinds of plants rely upon-

and thus endangers cash crops
and tropical rain forests, Tuttle
says. ~

- Curiously, says Tuttle, “bats
are in bigger trouble in places
where people like them than
where people fear them. They eat
them all. At least the bigger ones,
the flying fox bats, are consid-
_ ered a delicacy.
v.“On Guam, one of the island’s

two ﬂying fox species was

made totally extinct recently.
The other is Seriously endan-
gered. The problem is that the
Chamorros (a native tribe) on

. Guam enjoy eating bats on fesd

tive occasions no less than we en-
joy eating turkey on Thanksgiv-
mg.9’ ,

“No one has ever bothered to
recognize the important game
status of these animals and no
management was ever planned,
so bats are slaughtered in unregu-
lated harvest.“ ’

In Guam, 40 percent of the for-
est trees rely on bats for seed
dispersal and others for pollina-
tien. In the Pacific, plants rang-
ing from breadfruit to pandanas,
a source of. leaves woven into
hats and placemats rely on bats.

. ATS ARE also valued as
‘ food in Southeast Asia and
parts of Africa, be said.

In Australia, however, the gov.

ernment has dismissed protests ‘

from conservation groups and set
Out to wage war against bats,
Specifically flying foxes under the
mistaken notion they are deci-
mating the fruit industry.

But Tuttle says many, if not
most of the important Australian

ed.

hardwood trees are bat-pollinat-

Farmers’ complaints were
largely miscOnceptions; the fly-
ing foxes seldom eat anything but
fruit missed by pickers or fruit
that is overripe. Fruit used com-
mercially must be picked green.

In Israel, bats were thought to
be causing damage to orchards.
The government treated all‘caves
with pesticides and succeeded in
eliminating 90 percent or more of
most common insect-eating bats,
which were not even targets, Tut-
tle says. ’ ~ l ’ 9 g 5-

Tuttle says bats are by far the
most important controllers of
nocturnal insects, such as mos-
quitoes. Just one bat can catch

500 mosquito-size “15395.31 an .

hour. - -

What was once the largest col- 0

ony of bats in the United States,
located in Arizona, used to be

, able to gobble up an estimated

400,000 pounds of insects a night,
Tuttle says. The colony, number-

ing more than a million mem-‘

bers, has been nearly decimated

over the years for reasons un-'

known. . ,,
Bats are particularlyvulnera-
ble to extinction because they
reproduce slowly. Females give
birth to only one pup a year. Colo-
nies concentrate in a single cave,

where just one malicious act can is

wipe out millions, Tuttle says.

DENVER POST
April 6, 1986

‘ 0 Associated Press
A Gambian epaulated bat steals lunch from a fig tree. Some bats eat overripe fruit missed by pickers.

 




LAS VEGAS SUN - March 23, 1986

Lula show at the Stardust Hotel that night in celeb;
tron of Jues birthday

pthesénons were 111 the 34—foot 1984 vehicle, including:
*1“ ”ion sets expensive bikes, 3. beat. all at, their“

i;§;;f=f;nut for any of
=3; forever. j_

 

 

*Fé-lmsessions ..... a Pair of cats. Brandy, 5;; .

QWIIO wgre locked inMlel W WM It W

ﬁlth her parents, where they are aiting for 73:? {
**-‘lnsurance settlement and hoping for the safe re

 

*‘m totem

 

 




the reins
In control, they
get leg up on life

By Daniel P. Jones
Denver Post Staff Writer

FOUNTAIN — Gay O’Rourke helped
the boy climb on Four Bits. The pony
settled into a canter, and dyearold
Matthew Miller broke into a big smile,
clinging to the horse like honey on a bun.

It was Wednesday morning at Lorraine
Elementary School, the day O’Rourke
brings horses to the schoolyard so 15
handicapped children can get their
chance to ride.

O’Rourke is the founder of a volunteer
program called Special Horses for Special
Kids. Since she began the program in

_ 1981, when the father of a child with
leukemia asked her to teach the boy to
ride, about 700 handicapped children have
enjoyed the program at her ranch in
Black Forest. . ,

' But this year, she has hitched up
trailers and taken the show on the road
for a six-week engagement at the school
in Fountain, where handicapped children
from the Fountain/ Fort Carson district
attend special education classes.

 

 

A form of learning

“I told Matthew the horses were
coming, and he shouted, ‘Ride ’em
cowboy!’ ” said special ed teacher Ellen
Bright, who was helping fit some of the
anxious children with green and orange
hockey helmets for safety.

But while the fun and excitement
attract the children, other features of the
program excite special education experts.
The riding provides physical therapy,
confidence-building, balance and
coordination training, and a form of
learning otherwise unavailable to these
handicapped children.

~ “It’s not only good for your self-esteem
to centrol an animal that weighs half a
ton, but it’s excellent therapy,” said
O’Rourke. ‘ -

When the horses were brought to the
school for the first time about three
weeks ago, Matthew, a Down’s Syndrome
child, was afraid to ride. -

“He wasn’t going to get on the horse,”
said Bright. “Today he hopped right up.”

The lessons available and the
breakthroughs possible vary from child to
child, depending on their handicaps. Some

Billy Campbell, with help of Gay O’Rourke, swaps wheelchair for a pinto gelding.

 

 




0.". ‘3 -’i
with cerebral-palsy.

Ryan Cook, 9, who is blind and
retarded, got to feel the warmth
and the muscles of a horse moving
beneath him. The children ride
bareback “so they feel the horse
and the muscles and what’s going
* on,” said special ed coordinator
Debra Wilson. _

Ryan ran his hand over the
horse’s coat and mane, and felt. its
~ tongue scoop alfalfa pellets -
. called “horse cookies” — from his

outstretched hand.

“The more experiences they’re
going to get, the more aware they
are of their worl ,” said Wilson.
Traditional learning through read-
ing and writing, she explained, is
next to impossible for some of the

{ﬂéﬁ’éi

ﬁfég/éutﬂ <25an

{MW/é! 5:2)

49W
WWW
WZt 212
(KM/7
Mal/W

Mr

W

,most always there,”
'30 Rourke

“It’s a lesson in patience. If you
hang in there, the rewards are al- :
said

One moment in particular last

' iWednesday was one of those small

:but important payoffs.

; For the first two weeks of the
:school riding program, an autistic
:child barely responded to the rid-
ring.

i The child, Tommy Weaver,
Tcouldn’t even stay on the horse
“during the first two sessions, and
was sliding and slumping from side
to side during last Wednesday’s
lesson. He seemingly was unaware
that he must hang on or risk fall-
mg

’ It was toward the end of his ride.
He had almost fallen into the arms
; of spotters on either side of the
horse several times when
.O’Rourke purposely had turned the

children “They learn by experi- :horse to coax a response from the
ences ” boy . ,
Billy Joe Campbell, 8, who , Then, With a suddenness that
1:9,,» is most. of his waking time in [surprised everyone, the boy react-
a is neelchair, rode with O’Rourke , .9de he beggg‘eg’ Shp to one side "
on Dakota, a pinto gaining. It was . '2‘ h e gr a “ﬁlth his 1985
a rare moment of freedom and 5 shoutedO Rourke He gripped for
control, the boy hi, the reins ,t 21hr stéime T . .
from side to side t .1; 3er the horse , . 15 n e over ommy find down
and shouting copmmm __ “Walk, {from the horse and into 0 Rourke s
whoa .. arms for a hug.

“The riding pats them in con-
trol, ” said O’ Roar: “They have
very little they in control of.

“If you can re“ :9 =3 is: :n of their
disabilities eve: it. i 15 minutes,
that’s special, and that 5 why we
do it ” she add”. -iliv Joe “can
ride just like Jim. other kids; .
that’s something! he cant do any-
where else. ,5 .

Billy Joe. the“ child with cere-
bral- palsy mind?“ i explain why he
liked ther program but his
happiness iw'v-ved nonetheless. “I

it s gm 2 I don’t it now why,”
4 is»: iwcupied with finding
eat atlas: an upcoming rodeo in
, whichhis groupwillride.

Fountain areas
needs volunteers

By The Denver Post

FOUNTAIN — The Special
Horses for Special Kids pro—
gram needs volunteers in the
Fountain area for the next three
weeks

No horse—ri'iandling experience
is needed. Volunteers need only
show up at the Lorraine Ele-

, mentary School each Wednes-
'_dayat8: 30am.

‘ Donations also are needed, as
the program receives no gov-
ernment grants and offers free
riding instruction to any handi-
capped child in the Pikes Peak
area.

Those interested can call Gay
O’Rourke at 495-3908, or Karen
Bullard at 591-0836. Donations
can be sent to 6325 Sorpresa
Lane, Colorado Springs, Colo.
80918.

A county finale

In a way, the riding program at
the school is a warmup show for a
countywide finale — the fourth an-
nual Bronc N Roi} Rodeo for the
Handinanped. About 350 childrsv
from asund Eli Raso County air;
expected at the event, which will
be May 8 at the Kit Carson Arena
in Black Forest.

“The rodeo is a culmination -

‘ something where the kids get to
Show off,” said O’Rourke. And for
their teacherélg. ah’s (SC'eCiétlly

 

 

 

 

 

 




CHRISTIAN SCIENCE MONITOR - April 8, 1986

. sans — NUOH Aa‘iums Z .,...

 

The Florida panther, a creature on the verge of extinction? only 22 are known to exist

Letting Florida’s wildlife roam

Proposed ‘Corridors’
would 11nk state parks.

By Keith Henderson
Staff writer of The Christian Science Monitor
Winter Park, Fla.

Florida’s oldest residents — its pan—
thers, bears, otters, and other wild crea-
tures — are having trouble getting used
to the newcomers.

Each week, some 10,000 people move
to the state. It’s a rate of growth that is
“literally overwhelming everything,”
says Bill Partington, who heads up the
Florida Conservation Foun-
dation here.

But there’s One thing Mr. ‘The bi

Partington and other conser-

The long-established cnam of wildlife
preserves set up along the ﬂight paths of
migrating waterfowl offers a clear
precedent for such a system, he notes.
What peOple are recognizing now, says
Dr. Harris, is that “we’ve got to treat
mammals as we’ve treated birds” —— give
them the means to move about in accord
with their instincts.

This means breaking with the century-
old conservation tradition of forming dis-
crete, unconnected wildlife sanctuaries or
parks, he adds. ’

In Harris’s View, the sanctuary concept
has encouraged the creation of inbred
animal populations who are losing their
heartiness and are prevented from natu—
ral foraging. What’s happening to the
dwindling Florida panther in this state,

vationists are determined to tha‘ If 't [the
shield from the ﬂood of hu- corridor plan]
manity: the spectacular ar- a

ray of animal life native to ,doesnt happen
this most tropical part of the m the "en I've
United States. This can best years, it could be
be accomplished, he says, by too late ! '
establishing a “statewide, '
comprehensive habitat sys: sews/rarmwwww
tem for wildlife.”

for instance, “is of a piece” with what’s
happening to the grizzly in Western parks
or to the white rhino in African wildlife
preserves, he says. All these species re-
quire much greater range than a single
@5311 provide. A male Florida panther
ance, normal] ,

of 400 square miles. y roams over an area
The possibility of creating an intercon—

“Wildlife corridors” are what Part-
ington has in mind.

In essence, the corridors would estab—
lish connecting links of open land be-
tween the wildlife preserves and parks
that now pepper Florida. Animals, then,
could migrate and roam without con—

stantly running up against civilization in .

the form of superhighways, shopping
malls, and tightly packed housing tracts.
“It’s the oldest idea in conservation,”
says Larry D. Harris, a wildlife specialist
at the University of Florida in Gainesville
and chief theorist behind wildlife corri-
dors in the state.

‘I ' "

nected natural system of c0rridors and
preserves clearly exists in Florida ac-
cording to Barry Allen, a professor at
Rollins College in Winter Park. Half the
state is still forested, he points out and
the comdors could make use of such ex-
isting lanes of open land as
power-line rights of way or
abandoned rail lines.
Partington emphasizes co-
operation with private land-
owners, suggesting various
ways of making the corridors
idea palatable to them —
trading development rights
for tax breaks. for instance.

 




He explains that wildlife cor-
riders are compatible with
many existing forms of land
use, such as pulp wood oper-
ations and even some kinds
of residential development, as long as low '3

density is maintained.

l
l
l

“We’re going to try to leave as much of i
the land as possible in private hands, with a
some zoning restrictions, if you will,”
says F. Wayne King, curator for herpetol—
ogy (reptiles and amphibians) at the
Florida State Museum in Gainesville
and another proponent of the corridors

idea. ’ .

A late-April conference in Winter Park
will bring together supporters of legisla-
tion to create a statewide council to study
the corridors idea and make recommenda-
tions on implementing it. Backers are
hopeful things will move quickly from
there, since the response from all inter-
ested parties —— state and local ofﬁcials
and even private landowners —— has been
favorable, they say. They point out, too,
that polls of Floridians show there is
strong support for protecting the state’s

wildlife.

The panther, a creature on the brink of
extinction, offers a case in point as to
what a corridor system might accomplish.
Only 22 of the animals are known to exist.
If you draw a 20-mile radius around ev-
ery city in the state having 15,000 or
more inhabitants, there will be only three
or four places where the circles don’t
intersect, Dr. King points out. In a couple

of those remote areas you’ll ﬁnd the remaining panthers.

he explains.

Wildlife corridors, enabling the panther to roam f ar-
ther aﬁeld, might be the lifeline needed to rescue the

large eat, but King isn't optimistic.

“The Florida panther is so far along that, doing every-
thing we can, we might not be able to save it,” he says.

Nevertheless, the whole point of the corridors program, ~

he contends, is to prevent other
animals from having to face the
predicament of the panther.

For his part, Harris feels the
panther can be saved. There’s am-
ple information available about
the animal’s migratory tenden-
cies, he says, so corridors could be
designed to meet the cat’s needs.

While no one can guarantee
’ that wild animals will use the cor-
' ridors, an understanding of such
animals’ habits, together with the
engineering know-how to bridge
such obstacles as highways,

The panther, a
creature on the
brink of
extinction,
offers a case
in point as

to what a
corridor
system might
accomplish.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

makes it probable they will use them, says Harris.
Behind it all lurks a note of urgency. “The big fear,”
says Dr. Allen, “is that if it [the corridor plan] doesn’t
. happen in the next ﬁve years, it could be too late.”
0 Harris predicts it will indeed happen, and within ﬁve
years. And lots of other states — faced with similar
needs to protect their wildlife — will be standing by to
see how Florida puts the corridors idea into practice, he

adds.

CHICAGO TRIBUNE — April 4, 1986

VoiceofThe people

 

Lead shot, steel ’shot and wildlife

WASHINGTON—I read“ with in-
terest your Feb. 14 editorial “A ban
on steel shot.” The Department of
thelntenor is committed to elimi-
nating lead poisoning as a signifi—
cant causepof death in waterfowl
and bald eagles. We require water-
fowl hunters to use nontoxic [steel]
shot in areas where lead poisoning
is a known or potential threat to
waterfowl or eagles. For the fall of
1986, we have proposed that por-
tions of . 44 states be designated as
‘nontoxic shot zones” where lead
shot Willbe prohibited. We have
also published for public comment
a draft environmental impact state-
ment [BIS] proposing six altema-
tives for resolving the lead poison-
ing problem.

We believe this is a sensible and
orderly approach to a complex and
difficult issue. It has been worked
out in cooperation with representa-
tives of all sides of this issue and is
supported by many state wildlife

_agenc1es, waterfowl hunters, conser-
vation organizations and ammuni-
tion manufacturers.

. Unfortunately, rather than giving
us the opportunity to complete our
EIS process, the National Wildlife
Federation has chosen to sue us to
achieve a nationwide ban on lead
shot for waterfowl hunting. We are

disappointed that they chose to take

this action, before we have even
been able toreview the public’s
comments on the EIS. We are also
concerned that the federation’s ac—
tion threatens the growing consen-
sus on this issue and will only serve
to create more controversy. In the
long run, additional divisiveness on
the lead shot—steel shot controversy
could divert attention from the
major threat to both waterfowl and
bald'eagles—continued loss of
Amenca’s wetlands.

William. P. Horn

Assistant secretary for fish and wildlife
and
parks, US. Department of the Interior

 




NATIONAL ENQUIRER - April 15, 1986

Anmals Can Warn Us
Of Natural Disasters

Animals display amazing behavior that accurately fore-
casts earthquakes and other natural disasters, says an ex-

pert. '

Fish jump out of water . . . pigs eat their own tails . . . hiber-

nating snakes suddenly slither out of their holes.

“Such acts of abnormal behavior by animals occur in the
minutes, hours or days before a natural disaster,” said Dr. Hel-
mut Tributsch, a visiting professor at California’s Stanford Uni-

. . . Geese Scream,

Dogs Bark & Cattle
60 Berserk Before
Devastating Quakes
Strike, Says Expe

versity.

Dr. Tributsch — who evaluated
reports of more than 70 earthquakes
in which bizarre animal behavior
preceded the first tremors —- be-
came interested in the subject when
an earthquake struck his parents’

village in Italy in 1979.

“I became intrigued by the peas-
ants’ tales of strange animal behav-
ior before the disaster struck.

“They told of cats deserting their

 

 

 

 

 

 

villages. Many remembered cattle tearing at their chains.
One man found his six cows bellowing while
furiously flapping their ears and tails.

“An innkeeper told me his two dogs sud-

denly started barking loudly
in the backyard, clawing
wildly at his doors and win-
dows. But it was impossible
to lure them into the house.”

The National Earthquake
Bureau of China gathers re—
ports of strange animal be-
havior as a reliable sign of
an approaching tremor, re-
vealed Dr. Tributsch, physi-
cal chemistry professor of
the Free University of Ber-
lin, West Germany, who
wrote the book “When the
Snakes Awake” about the
animal warnings.

“It’s possible to point to at
least 10 earthquakes this
century that, according to
Chinese records, were un-
questionably heralded by
abnormal animal behavior.
One example was the accu-
rate prediction of a massive
quake which struck the Tan-
tung area in February 1975.

“In the middle of Decem-
ber 1974, snakes came out of

 

 

 

 

hibernation and
froze to death.

“At the beginning of Feb«
ruary, geese screamed and
refused to nest, dogs barked
as if mad, pigs chewed off
their tails and cows dug the
ground with their hooves.

“Authorities put emer-
gency plans into effect.

“On February 4 the earth-A

quake came, reaching 7.3 on
the Richter scale. In Hai-
cheng, where about half a
million people lived, half of
the buildings were de-
stroyed or severely dam-
aged. Without timely evacu-
ation, tens of thousands
might have died. As it was,
there were few victims.”

The first precise descrip—
tion of animal behavior be-
fore an earthquake dates
from 373 B.C., Dr. Tributsch
said. “Ancient Greek histo-
rians wrote that rats, snakes,
weasels, centipedes, worms
and beetles migrated in
droves five days before a
violent earthquake.”

One of the most bizarre
cases was observed before a

1917 quake in Yunnan Prov-p

ince, China, he added.

“One month before, fish
floated to the surface of
a river. Then, several days
before the earthquake,
the water level rose and
thousands of fish jumped
ashore.”

 

 

*“-—_

Abnormal animal behav-
ior has also preceded volca-
noes, landslides and tidal
waves, said the professor.

“It is clear that many ani-
mals are able to detect some
form of energy which is re-
leased from the earth prior
to a natural disaster.”

— WILLIAM DICK

 




 

WALL STREET JOURNAL - 4/4/86

 

The Pet of the Year
I m t a Pinup era Pup? .-
But I t I 5 Just as 'T-i '36

*- * 9(- *
It Is the Mischievous Ferret,
Furred in Designer Colors;
(.> Marvel or Major Menace? 4.

 

 

By DIANE PETZKE

Staff Reporter of THE WALL STREET JOURNAL

. Shopping for a pet? Consider the swift
and slinky ferret, the pet fad of the day. It
is smart, playful and definitely a breed

apart from predictable pets like dogs, cats ;

or hamsters.

But ferrets have their faults. Most seem I

to smell like a locker room after the mud
bowl, they attract ear mites and fleas and,

oh yes, they have a disturbing “propensity :
to eat human flesh,” says Sue Coffey, a '

Carson City, N ev., police detective who has
investigated ferret attacks.

“It’s part of their inherited trait to go
for the jugular—the kill,“ explains Denny
G. Constantine. a public-health veterinar-
ian in California‘s Health Department.

Several states, including California, ban
ferrets as pets. And the American Veteri-
nary Association has issued a warning
about the animals' penchant for attacking
young children. (They attack their own
young too, sometimes.)

None of that seems to bother an esti-
mated 400,000 ferret lovers who are fueling
a virtual ferret frenzy. Since 1980, sales of
, the sable-colored, mink-sized animals have
risen fivefold. The International Ferret As-
sociation’s membership has swelled to
'- some 100,000 ferret fans from 14,000 only
five years ago. Chuck Morton, 3 Willow
. Hill Pa., breeder claims to sell nearly 14,
000 ferrets a year, and that doesn * fill all
his orders.

More Cuddly

Mary Field, a Pittsburgh public-rela-
. tions executive, bought her first ferret
' about two years ago after a series of what
she says were unexciting pets: a dog, a
‘ turtle and a goldfish. “The goldfish weren’t
cuddly enough,” she complains. “They
don’t care if you come home or not.”

Ferrets, on the other hand, seem ideal
to her. “They’re clean, adapt to your life
style, make no noise, fit well in your apart—
ment and you don‘t have to walk them like
dogs," Mrs. Field says. She and her hus-
. band have two, Heather and Furry. The
Fields have fashioned a two-story “ferret
condo" to give them a place to call
home.

Mrs. Field heads the Pittsburgh Ferret
Fanciers Club, which plans its first show
this month. She expects more than 100 ani-
mals and their owners, including a contin-
gent from Alaska, to compete for prizes,

including one for' ‘best-dressed" ferret.
The fanciers sell ferret sweaters and

hats. -

 

 

 

 

 

HUI/irginia ferret lovers started holding
“ferret frolics” in 1980. Included are con-

tests in which ferrets compete at finding
their way through mazes, digging holes
and yawning. (For a real mouth-opener,
pat a ferret on part of its neck.)
Ferret-Legging

Ferret contests in England get even

more adventurous. For many years, Eng- .

lishmen have competed at something

called “ferret-legging"—dropping ferrets
down their trousers as a sort of endurance

sport. Pants cuffs must be tied or tucked

:into long socks, and the ferret must have

easy passage from one leg to the other.
Filing down teeth isn’t cricket, and tran-

quilizers for either the ferret or the human ..

being are strictly prohibited. Official rec-
ords are disputed, but one Britisher claims
to have endured a ferret in his drawers for

more than five hours.

Ferrets were first tamed by the Egyp-
tians and the Chinese, and Europeans used

them as a form of pest control in the fourth 1

century BC. In the late 18003, American

farmers began using sable ferrets to get ,
‘ rid of rodents. The ferrets available here ,

are cousins of the European polecat; the

only native American ferret, the black- ‘

footed ferret of the Great Plains, now is all

, but extinct.

Pet stores offer run-of-the-mill ferrets
for about $100. More exotic breeds, espe—
cially those with fur in “designer colors”

_ such as blue, chocolate, cinnamon or ster-

ling silver, cost more. Neutering and “de-
scenting” can raise a ferret price tag to
$250 or more. Ferrets get by on dry cat

food, though they have a taste for red lico-

rice, lirna beans and Brie cheese.

, “Everyone is buying them,” says David
Soltz, owner of Pet Pad in Shadyside, Pa.
He has sold about 600 in the last two years

. to college professors, doctors and, he says,

“bums on the street”

All but two states-Alaska and West
Virginia—officially consider ferrets to be
wild animals, and some, such as New
York, require special permits to keep them
as pets. New Hampshire, Rhode Island,
South Carolina and Georgia ban pet fer-
rets, in addition to California. ‘

One reason is that the US. Centers for
Disease Control say ferrets are “highly
susceptible and capable of transmitting ra-
bies." The Food and Drug Administration
hasn’t approved a rabies vaccine for them.
As for the US Humane Society, “we still

 

 

 

consider them exotic,” says Nancy Blaney
of the society’s captive wildlife protection
division. “They’re a fad.”

Ms. Coffey, the Carson City detective,
uses stronger language. “Everything about
ferrets is contradictory to what people are
saying,” she says. “They don’ t make good
pets.’ Last September, she investigated a
grisly attack on a 20 day old infant whose
face was mauled and whose nose was bit-
ten off by a ferret. She has since accumu
lated a “foot-wide" file of similar attacks
involving both children and adults. Several
years ago, two pet ferrets escaped from
their cage and killed a six- “month old Lon
don girl.

Ms. Coffey’s file also includes a case of
a pet ferret chewing a sleeping baby’s ears
in Colorado Two ferrets used for hunting
by an Ohio man attacked his two- month
old son who nearly bled to death. And
when an Oregon couple recently picked up
a stray ferret along the roadway, it bit the
woman’s face so hard that the ferret had
to be beaten to be removed.

Ferret owners focus more on the mis-
chievousness of their pets—though that, too
can lead to trouble. Ferrets, which like to
sleep more than half the day, often head

i for the dark spaces of a recliner chair,
' making the chairs the leading cause of fer-

ret fatalities when the owner plops down.
In a Virginia ferret owner’s home, a .
load and a half of laundry turned up be- 1 ‘

hind a refrigerator, the work of a ferret

that quietly had stashed away the clothes
over several months. And Mrs, Field says
one of her ferrets swiped a loaf of rye

‘ bread while she was unloading groceries.

It turned up under a sofa. “Lucky for her
she’s so Cute,” Mrs. Field says.

 

 




THE DENVER POST - March 30, 1986

Q

A
r

I
t I

d

1!

t
I
l

n-s.‘

w

"v

"‘&%“‘QFJ

5 2' By Mike Dennison

:The Associated Press

: CHOTEAU, Mont. — Grizzly
mabears have' taken to wandering
2tdown out of their refuge in the
3?steep Rocky Mountains of western
S’Montana, and that has some folks
fiitching to go for their guns.

;: There’s no quicker way to heat
:up a conversation in this farm and

granch town along the steep front of ‘

tithe Rockies than to start talking
2 about grizzlies._
:f The feud is’between conserva-
5§;tionists, who want to protect the
5;;grizzlies, and the ranchers who fig-
5%ure the only good bear is a dead
fibear.
In the case of Pulitzer Prize-win-
i.;ning author A.B. “Bud” Guthrie Jr.
3— whose novel “The Big Sky” gave
j; Montana it’s state motto - it’s a
ffamily feud over the official state
it? animal. ‘
if; “The ranchers can’t see any-
:thing but killing the bear,” says the
{:84-year—old Guthrie, one of Cho-
:gteau’s most prominent residents.
53“You can’t suggest any modifica-
:‘tion in their view.” ,

One of the ranchers who wants
the right to shoot any grizzly that
{threatens his livestock is A.B.

:“Bert” Guthrie III, the author’s '

:son.
: “The grizzly bear lS deprivmg
:me of my hvehhood,” he says. “If
.you were a store owner, wouldyou
allow a shoplifter to come into
your shop every day? That’s what
people are asking the stockmen to
put up with.”
t Thirty miles west of Choteau, a
1‘ town of about 1,800 residents some
:40 miles northwest of Great Falls,
flies the eastern front of the North-
'5ern Rockies, one of the last refuges
* of the grizzly.
3 The grizzly once was found from
{the Black Hills and Badlands of the
Dakotas westward to the Pacific
:and from Mexico to northern Alas-
;ka. Today the bears, which aver-
«age almost 800 pounds and stand 8
Ifeet tall, are found mainly in the
fwilds of Alaska and Canada and in
' g: the Yellowstone and Glacier na-
:tional parks, where they are pro-
:tected.

Under the Endangered Species
§Act, it is illegal to shoot a grizzly

1y

——__.,,

feud in ‘Bi

except in self-defense or during a
sanctioned hunt.

State game officials estimate 550
to 800 bears live in the northern
Rockies of Montana, including Gla-
cier National Park.

The mountains have long been
acknowledged as belonging to the
bear. But in the last two years,
more and more grizzlies have been
reported roaming far out onto their
former range on the plains. Some
have killed sheep and damaged
property.

Some Choteau residents fear the
bears are becoming a' threat to
people, too.

State game officials investigated
21 bear “incidents” in the Choteau
area last year, ranging from dam-
aged beehives to dead sheep. Sev-
eral grizzlies were relocated, and
two died during relocation efforts.

A public hearing was held in
Choteau early this year on a grizz-
ly management plan drawn up by
state wildlife officials. Most of the
speakers angrily denounced gov-
ernment efforts to protect the
bears, to the applause of about 150
people at the meeting.

Bear defenders say they are
being ostracized.

“We want to be good neighbors
like anyone else,” says Dave McAl-
lister, co~manager of the Nature
Conservancy’s Pine Butte Pre-
serve, a bear habitat area 25 miles
west of town. “But the people I
know that are for the bear are
being shouted down.”

Much of the anti-bear anger has
been directed at Bud Guthrie, who
concedes that he feels uncomfort-
able being labeled as the bear’s
“spokesman.”

But he bristles at those who
dismiss him as a “romanticist”
who pines for the Old West as por-
trayed in his novels like “The Big
Sky” and “The Way West.”

“Realism has led to the fouling
of our air and water, and to toxic
waste dumps,” he says. “Am I a
romanticist, then? I’m looking to
the future more than these people
are. They’re just looking at the
cash register.”

Guthrie has lived for 10 years in
a house a few miles from the
mountains. He says he has never

Wandering grizzlies trigger
g Sky Counﬂy’

even seen a grizzly hear, much less
had problems with them.

But no one denies that some
bears are coming too close to town
and need to be pushed back toward
the mountains. Just how far they
should be pushed and how to go
about it is where the argument
starts. .

Ranchers like Bert Guthrie and
Ira Perkins of Bynum say federal
protection is the culprit, and that
it’s time to remove the bear from
the threatened species list. That
way, they say, people can
discourage bears from hanging
around by shooting them.

Perkins has collected several
hundred signatures on a petition
urging the government to take the
bears off the endangered species
list.

But Glenn Erickson, a state
wildlife administrator, says even if
the grizzly is taken off the list, the
Endangered Species Act requires
that the bear population be main-
tained at a certain level. Other-
wise, it would go back on the list.

“The attitude that you’ve got to
remove the bear from the list so
you can kill it doesn’t work,” he
says.

The Nature Conservancy recent-
ly took control of thousands of
acres of land along the front to
manage as a habitat for wildlife,
including the grizzly bear.

Bert Guthrie says such groups,
with the backing of government of-
ficials, are in effect “raising”
bears and have a responsibility to
keep them off ranch land.

But McAllister of the Nature
Conservancy says it’s not that sim-
ple.

Bears, he says, have always
used the area for a spring range.
They forage in bogs and river bot-
toms for nutrient-rich plants after
a long winter of hibernaton in the
snow-covered high country.

Only recently have the bears
roamed farther onto the plains, he
says. He attributes that to a num-
ber of reasons, including an in-
crease in nomadic younger bears
and a drought in the wetlands.

McAllister and other conserva-
tionists say the solution, at least
for now, is to support a state plan

 




 

Associated Press

Author A.B. ‘Bud' Guthrie is uncomfortable being labeled as spokesman for the grizzlies.

to create three zones for managing
the grizzly along the eastern Rocky
Mountain Front.

The first zone would be managed
as bear habitat and the second
zone would be a buffer. Bears en-
tering the buffer would be persuad—
ed to leave by a variety of means,
such as authorized hunting or by
cleaning up cattle boneyards and

moving them farther toward the
mountains.

A boneyard is where ranchers
dump carcasses of cattle that may
have died during the harsh Mon-
tana winters. In the third zone,
which comes as close as 10 miles
from a town, grizzlies would not be
tolerated. .

Perkins and Bert Guthrie

dismiss the zoning plan as a farce,
noting that it still designates some
ranch land as bear habitat. They
say the bear should be pushed back
entirely into the mountains.

But that would eliminate the
bears’ spring range and wipe out
the bear population, thus violating
the Endangered Species Act, Ere
ickson says. ‘

 




The Denver Post / Dave Buresh

r

t fervor

i

d rabbits for fun and show for four years.

ISG

10
im
r.

 

th someone's leftover Easter bunny, has ra

mg wi

The Denver Post/ Sunday, March 30, 1986

A severe case of

.
r

\n
x . xvi/gt

Beth Rhoades, start

 

 

 




Beth one hop ahead of hares: showing, breeding, mercy runs

By Diana Griego
Denver Post Staff Writer

When 17-year-old Beth Rhoades hears of
hares facing hazards, she quickly comes to the
rescue.

Beth was only 13 when she rescued her first
rabbit, Marshmallow, from the Dumb Friends
League animal shelter where it faced almost
certain death.

: Now the l2-pound New Zealand White is
queen of the kingdom of about 20 rabbits that
live in the Rhoades family garage. -

The Smoky Hill High senior raises rabbits —
Dutches, Netherland Dwarfs and Champagne
d’Argents —- for breeding and showing.‘

She learned the art from friends in the Arap-
ahoe County 4-H Club while she was experi-
menting by entering Marshmallow in shows.

At first Marshmallow didn’t win anything,
but times have changed.

In the past few years, more than 70 rabbits
have passed through the Rhoades home, earn-
ing Beth more than 200 ribbons and awards.

“nnce Marshmallow Won a few awards, I got

a couple more rabbits here and a couple more
there,” Beth said. “Look at this now,” she said
with a laugh as she motioned toward the garage
in which cages upon cages of rabbits are
stacked.

Beth said she can usually tell which rabbits
will be good breeders, but the art can be tricky

at times. Characteristics such as weight and fur ,

color are important, but tiny blemishes like one
off-colored toenail can lose it for a rabbit in
competition.

Therefore, Beth can’t keep bunnies ' just be-
cause they’re ﬂuffy and cute.

If they don’t make the grade, she gives them
away or sells them to pet shops.

“The bad show rabbits are perfectly good
pets,” Beth said. “Anyone can have them for
pets because all you need is a little cage, and
they don’t eat much . . . They don’t bite unless
they’re provoked and it takes a lot to get them
mad,” she added.

Rabbits also have interesting personalities,
Beth said. “They just don’t sit there. I can tell

everybody apart by the way they act.”
Some are even good for a few good laughs.

For instance, Marshmallow likes to chase the
family’s dachshund — she’s bigger than the dog
is — and Rover the rabbit gets miffed like a dog
if anyone tries to touch his food while he’s eat-
ing.

Then there’s Peter, who lies on his back and
plays dead. He’ll even let Beth shape his mouth
into a smile. ' . '

Every year around Easter, Beth becomes
concerned about rabbits because many peOple
buy them for their children and then decide
they’re too much trouble to keep.

The worst thing to do, Rhoades said, is take
unwanted bunnies to animal shelters because
most people who want a rabbit don’t think of
going to a shelter. Many pet sh0ps will take
rabbits 'for free, and 4—H Club members always
are happy to find homes for bunnies, Beth said.

“We’re a whole bunch of people who are just
crazy about rabbits,” Rhoades said, “so, we
don’t want anything bad to happen to them.”

 

 




DETROIT FREE PRESS - March 31, 1986

 

Have a doggone talented pet? Tell us about it

Lots of dogs can open the pantry door. We’re looking for one
who can take out the spaghetti and cook dinner. 7

.Well, maybe that’s too much to ask.'But here’s an opportuni-
ty for pet owners to brag to us about their wonderful animals.

Got a mynah who sings Elvis? A schnauzer who bowls 170?
Drop a line and tell us about your critter’s unusual talent. We’ll
check out the half-dozen or so that seem the most impressive or _
entertaining and, at least for a day, we’ll make ’em stars. ‘

, Send deScriptions of your furry, feathered, floating, fanged
orfetlocked friend and its astounding or amusing ability to:-
Stupendous Pet Tricks, Detroit Free Press, Box 828, Detroit
48231. No phone calls, please. Include your name, address and a
phone number where you can be reached during the day.
Deadline to have entries in our office is April 7.

We’ll report back with the winners. And please remember -—;

don’t call us, we’ll call you. ..

Owner says
feline can _

talk her way
to the tOp

By NEAL RUBIN

Free Press Staff Writer

At 31/2, says mama proudly, Katrina can talk, sing,-
count, spell and dance.

She also can catch mice.

Katrina is a feline, as in Angora. Rose Lokey is her
mother, as in stage. “You’re going to be a star,” coos Lokey.
Katrina, already a prima donna, offers her head to be
scratched and maintains a haughty silence.

Lokey is perched on the plastic-covered sofa in her pink
living room. Katrina is perched on Lokey. A long leap away is
what used to be the dinette; the alcove now holds two

television sets, a VCR, a tape recorder, an assortment of ,
cassettes and videotapes of the cat and some of the nearly 20 --

w - at. “show-um...” -. .

_--.-.,. ,...... -,--—~-......-——

vases of plastic flowers scattered around the apartment.
“I saw that cat show on ‘Walt Disney’ the other night. He
wasn’t as beautiful as my cat,” says Lokey, “about 40,” her
high voice ringing with enthusiasm. "See her wink her eye?
She likes you. Have you ever seen a cat wink her eye like
that?” _
Probably. But it’s human nature to do handsprings over
creatures with paws or claws, no matter how slight the
provocation. -
'No one brags about owning the most commonplace
animal on the block. Biggest, fastest, smartest, dumbest —-

: every pet is somehow exceptional.

“We attribute more to kids than is really there, whether ‘

’ it’s positive or negative,” says Christine Panyard, a Mercy

College psychology professor and a practicing psychologist.
“We look at pets in the same irrational way.”

Excessive pride seems a reasonable response to the.
devotion of a pet. “Nothing loves you so unconditionally as
an animal,” notes Panyard, owner of a beautiful_(naturally)

‘ 96-pound German shepherd. “It asks for very little —— to be

E-let out occasionally, to be stroked, to be fed.” -
' With that in mind, she says, “I can really empathize” with
Lokey. \ . '

Of course, Panyard swears her family’s boxer used to say

“mom"! .

KATRINA, SAYS Lokey, prefers “mama” or “mommy.”

The two chat regularly in their southwest Detroit apartment.
“When I bring her downstairs, she says, ‘Good morning,
mommy! I love you!’ I tell her, ‘I love you, too,’ ” Lokey says.

, :;The other morning she said, ‘Clean my' teeth!’

“I said, ’Well, I’m not going to clean your teeth, because
.rpl’m busy.’rShe said, ‘Well then, give me my medicine.’ Sol
'gidld."‘ w ‘ 7‘ . y

 




-, Once the gray-and-white cat becomes a star, Lokey plans
‘ to cover such discussions in a book. But to this point, the story
has been written in red ink.

She’s spent more than $2,000 promoting and pampering
Katrina. The phone calls, tapes and stamps are an investment ,
in the future, she believes, with the only payoff some freebie
appearances on local television shows.

“Sometimes you have to struggle for years,” Lokey says
philosophically. A 90-second bit on “Kelly & Company,” late
night entertainment in the wee hours on Channel 62, a few'

. local cable programs — for a Morris-in-the-making, they’re
summer stock and walk-ons. .

“I would like to get her in commercials, or some kind of
movie. Like Cosby with those kids, or ‘Webster.’ I was going
to get her on David Letterman,” she says, referring to that

,show’s Stupid Pet Tricks segment, “but they don’t pay but
$50. When she gets famous, they’ll pay me big money.”

lvin Mears is familiar with well-to-do animals. The
Inkster High alumnus has several in his Fontana,‘
Calif ., compound, including Alex, the golden re-
triever mix sent to fetch the beer in a Stroh’s commercial.
Mears, 29, gets approached by star-struck pet owners “to
the point where I try to avoid it as much as possible.” He re-

. spects their sincerity, but doesn’t have time to listen.
“You’ve got a person such as Rose who feels her cat can
talk, there’s nothing anyone can say to change her mind,” he
says. “I wouldn’t try to change her mind. I’m an animal lover~

See TALKING CAT, Page 2E

myself. You can’t love too much, as far
as I’m concerned.”

The best way for an amateur to
make a Saint Bernard a star, he says, is
to be a pest. Contact companies that
might use animals in their advertising.
Watch movie and television credits for
names of trainers, and try to find them;
most live in California. Then prepare
for disappointment. '

“Is what you have so different from
what we actually have in our com-
pound? With the variety of 100 animals
we have to pick from, what’s so great

:about yours?” he asks. “If we do find a '-
difference, at that point we ‘suggest -
you mail us a nice photograph. Then
maybe if we get a call for something
we don’t have, and we happen to have
your animal in our Rolodex, I would
show the picture to the production
pccompany.”

Lokey tracked down Mears through
local contacts and sent 'him tapes of
Katrina. He didn’t ask for a photo-
graph. She also sent tapes to Hughes
Moss Casting of New York, the talent

KATRINA BOUNDED into Lokey’s
life on a cold, snowy morning in No-
vember 1982, chased by a big, gray cat
who had claimed the neighborhood as
its personal playground.

Lokey brought it inside, and Katrina
has been out only two or three times
since. “Someone would steal her if they
could,” Lokey explains. “I keep her
under lock and key.” A sign on the
front door warns of surveillance cam-
eras, and next to the Bible at her
bedside is a .22 rifle.

 

 

 

Free Press Photo by JOHN COLLIER

Rose Lokey would like to get her
cat, Katrina, into commercials.

"agency for “The Cosby Show,” and
*- she’ll tell you that if acatis added to the
- cast, “They’ll definitely use Katrina.”
“Katrina. We remember her well,”
says a woman at Hughes Moss. “Rose
sent us a tape. Then she called 20 times
to see what we thought. Someone must
have ultimately said, ‘Well, if we ever
need a cat.’ Seriously, ‘The Cosby
Show’ does not know Katrina exists.”

‘ . . _ , . Free Press Photo by JOHN COLLIER
Rose Lokey of Detrmt says her cat. Katrina, can talk, and she intends to make a star out of the feline. “When I
bring her downstairs, she says, ‘Good morning, mommy! I love You!’ I tell her, ‘I love you, too.’ "

 




She brushes the cat daily with Cash-
mere Bouquet talcum powder and re-
wards it for good deeds with bits of
processed American cheese food slices.
She moves a piece above its head in a
flat circle and Katrina staggers around
the living room backward, waving a
paw at the orbiting snack.

“Look at her dance,” Lokey says.
“Well, it’s not spectacular, but it’s
something.” If Katrina could bring
home tests from school, they’d be
posted on the refrigerator.

“What pets really are,” says psy-
chologist Panyard, “is a substitute for
family. Human beings are gregarious
social animals. We need to be with our
own kind, or with something that
responds to us with love and affection.

“If you’ve lost significant people in'
your life, you turn to the next best
thing, which is pets. And pets become
symbolic children.”

THE CAT has the run of the apart-
ment, part of a four-unit building Lo-
key and her husband bought in the mid-
19603. They separated about eight
years ago; her daughter, died in 1973 at
age 14.

Before Katrina, Lokey raised para-
keets, seven of them over 17 years.
“When the last one died, I about had a

heart attack,” she says. “I had to go
into the hospital with an anxiety at-
tack. I wasn’t going to have any more
animals. Then Katrina came along.”
She said it struck her one day that
the cat, behind the door waiting for her
to come inside, was saying “mama.”

Given that as a starting point, Lokey 1

began training it in earnest.

Now Katrina will rest patiently
against Lokey’s left arm and shoulder,
head showing above Lokey’s left hand.
Lokey’s right hand cups the cat’s hips
and squeezes when she wants a re-
sponse.

“Here,” she says, “I’ll show you
how Katrina talks.”

LOKEY GIVES cues by word‘or

:yllable. “All right,” she instructs, “say
I.”

The cat pauses and then speaks.
“Meow,” it says.

Lokey is pleased. “Now say I’m . . .
(“Mrow”)very. . .(“Mrow-ow”)in. . .
(“Grrr”) telligent (“Meow”)!”

“See?” Lokey bursts into laughter.
“Did you hear that? She’s growling it
out.”

The show continues. Lokey counts
to 10, then checks off the numbers as
Katrina follows suit: “Meow.” (“That’s
one”) “Meow-ow.” (“That’s two, but
open your mouth when you talk”)
“Mew-ew.” (“Go on”)

Lokey translates as Katrina sings
the scales, asks to be fed and declares,
“I’m a good girl.” Mama beams:
“Didn’t that sound like ‘I’m a good
girl’?”

 

Actually, it sounds like variations
on “meow.” What does stand out is a
vague talent for mimicry — the long,
loud or drawn-out cues elicit more
elongated sounds than the short, soft or
sharp ones. ‘

Encouraged, Lokey asks Katrina for
arousing finish. Voice rising like an
air-raid siren, she prompts, “Heeere’s
Johnny?’

. “Mrow,” Katrina says, fluffing her
line. Lokey smiles and shrugs.

That’s show business,

 

 




THE HOUSTON POST - March 23, 1986
Handlers arrange details of snipgigg animals to new home or vacation spot

Holding facility for air—traveling pets
gzgaaemm _ ta l<es if in pop u l a rity

nside their cages, beagle pup—
pies bark and tumble. Nickie
Higgins, a Labrador retriever
waiting to be transported to Den-
ver, is playing with the Shoelaces
of a well-worn sneaker — his fa-
vorite toy.

 

A menu for pets lists red snap-
per and beef tartare as entrees.
There is a specially-designed bath-
tub on wheels with a stainless steel
rack holding downy towels. Clean
airline cages are stacked neatly in
one corner, near potted trees.

This is Animal-Port-Houston. It
was once just a cargo warehouse
at Intercontinental Airport. But
now it’s much more.

Established earlier this month
by Houston partners Tom Schooler
and Dr. James Gray, Animal-Port-
Houston (APH) is a round-the-
clock holding facility for air-trav-
eling pets. It’s one of six animal
ports in the world and only the sec-
ond in the United States. And it’s
already in demand. In its first two
weeks, 200 dogs, cats, monkeys,
snakes and assorted other animals
have passed through its doors.

 

v :5

ti

' t Animal-Port, handlers ar-
range all the worrisome
~- details of ﬂying pets to a
new“"home or vacation spot. They
obtain health certificates, cages,
and visas for international travel-
ersior a fee that totals 10 percent
of the cost of shipping. They’ll ' "
even pick up pets at home for a $5- Post photos by Cathy Ambrose Smith

$19-Charge- , Tom Schooler, owner and manager of lntercontinental’sAni-

». a "I '

,iI-T’ets also can be shipped to Ani- mal-Port-Houston, gets a kiss from Nickie Higgins, one of his

mailePort from another city for doggie boarders.

boarding for several hours or over- . bunch or
night. The fee is 35-520, depending and Burma mm mum. ”ems lme most terminals you 'Seetha car 0

0n the pet. Animal handlers Will . double chocolate ice cream and pupple§ StaCked up In t tehe agck-
pickup Fido or Puss at the air ter- Camembert cheese. area With all the resto 1t topmain-'
minal and bring him straight to ages. It makes it difflcu ”

the port — where he can be tain a humane atmosphere.
walked, fed, brushed and petted.

 

What more could an animal
want?

,IFFidO gets SiCk’ APHhandlers Not much, according to some
W111, take him t? a nearby veterl- pet owners and veterinarians.
narian (charglng only the cost of

transportation above the Vet’s “M 1 d , h

fee). They’ll also bathe your pet ili , 05? p 310:5 ”on t 3V9 any fa-

and feed him anything you desire c ties hke t 15’ , says Dr. Robert

at no extra charge. Their menu Egigngn’ atvetiriﬁalﬁag$€gxl exec-
~ ~ - - 1 irec or o e

features 150 items, Including trad1 (Houston Society for the PreVen-

“01:13.1 pet food brands hke A193” tion of Cruelty to Animals). “In

‘13—“ out: A.’A":I\ 6MA~‘~
.

 




Before the opening of Animal-
Port in Houston, pets shipped here
were relegated to cargo areas,
where they often sat unattended
for hours. Sometimes they es-
caped. One monkey, who was able
to clamber out of his cage, is still
at large and appears at Interconti-
nental Airport from time to time,
Schooler says. “We call him the
ghost monkey.”

Schooler and Gray plan to open
a similar animal port at Hobby
Airport in two weeks and want to
expand to other cities. There’s def-
initely a demand, they believe.
New York, which has an animal
cargo area directed by the
ASPCA, is the only U.S. city which
has a well-run airport facility for
animals, they say.

As well as housing animals, Ani-
mal-Port at Intercontinental has
an upstairs lobby where owners
can read or watch TV while wait-
lng for their animals to arrive on
late ﬂights. The warehouse is mon-
itored 24 hours a day by an animal
handler or Schooler, who manages
the port.

When the port is full, Schooler
or the handler sleep on a rollaway
bed upstairs at night. They put the
television on and dim the lights to

soothe the dogs and cats in the
cages below.

Even when there are no guests,
Schooler wears a beeper. You can
never tell when there’ll be an
emergency call, he says. Often
international ﬂights, with pets, ar-
rive in the wee hours of the morn-
ing. Or pet owners need to make
last-minute trips.

On a recent afternoon, Schooler
was busily completing paperwork
for 14 beagles who had been driven
up from Mexico by several busi-
nessmen. They would soon by ﬂy-
ing to Illinois. Besides traveling.
pets, Schooler also handles many
animals used in humane scientific
experiments or breeding —— exotic
monkeys, snakes, mice and rats
and prairie dogs. The most unusu-
al inhabitants of the port, so far,

 

 

have been baby vultures who
missed their connecting ﬂight and
had to be held overnight, he says.
Schooler fed them hamburgers
and milk via eyedroppers.

chooler, a former architect,

got the idea for his animal

business while vacationing
in Italy in 1983, he says. Seeing an
animal ambulance, he dec1ded to
start a similar company in Hous-
ton with a physician friend, Dr.
James Gray. The service, Pet Mo—
bile, has been in existence for two
years and transports ammals ev—
erywhere in Houston.

While transporting animals to
and from Houston airports,
Schooler discovered the lack of
good pet-holding facilities. Work-
ing with the ASPCA in New York,
he developed methods of housmg
and dealing with ammals.

Now, he and his animal port
have become a real attraction at
Intercontinental. Pilots, stewar-
desses and baggage handlers wave
when they see Schooler walking
one of his dogs on the airport .
grounds. One lady, who lives in the
country, comes in on weekends

just to sit with the pets.

“It’s wonderfu ,” Schooler says
about his job of caring for dogs
and cats and birds. “We get to see
so many lovely animals. And’we
get to aid people who wouldn t
know what to do if we weren t

 

 

Animal-Port-Houston was once just a cargo it's one of six animal ports in the world and
warehouse at Intercontinental Airport. Now only the second in the United States.

‘

"’_?

k

 




ATLANTA CONSTITUTION - March 28, 1986

It’s hard to beat 1
burro as buddy
or baby Suir

By Keith Graham
StaffWrilcr

Take it from Adrona Kuli-
kowski: Oreo is not only a good
' cookie but a great babysitter.

A Death Valley burro, now very' ,
much alive in Alpharetta, Oreo is
all ears: ——' literally -———-"*-‘as1Mrs'.- Ku-
likowski, a professional horse train-
er, cites his virtues.

“He does it all,” she boasts.
“He was easier to train than any
horse I ever worked with. I could
take millions of these creatures if I
had a place to put them.” ' . . ' ~

A place ‘to ut them is just
what the Fund or Animalsglooks
for. Oreo is just one of 7,000 bur-
ros, also known as donkeys or
asses, the non-profit conservation
and animal protection organization
has rescued from public lands and " ,_
placed with families in the past
four years. More than a hundred
now live in Georgia. _,

Founded in 1967 by writer and
columnist Cleveland Amory — a
crusader for animal rights since he
witnessed a Mexican bullfight as a
Tucson, Ariz., newspaperman in the
[19403 — the 250,000-member or-
ganization has rescued whales,
seals, wild hogs and laboratory
mice over the years. When word
went out about government plans to
eliminate burros from several ‘fed-
erally owned areas, the group sent
helicopters, cowboys and committed
volunteers to the rescue“.

It has recently done "the same '
to save wild goats and will put a
hundred of them up for adaption in
the metro Atlanta area Saturday.

Each of the burros shipped to {

 

 

 

 

 




Georgia spent at least a few weeks
at the Fund’s Black Beauty Ranch
in Ben Wheeler, Texas, and got a
checkup from a veterinarian. The
burro adopters contributed a tax-
deduetible $50 for each burro ——

. hey, or, better yet, hay, what a deal
,— and. signed contractsagreeing
not to mistreat their Charges. The
Fund has the right to reclaim the
burros if proper care isn’t given,
but that Option has been exercised
in only a handful of cases.

ers. Kulikowski, 39, first be-
came interested in the friendly lit-
tle equines after her daughter Ta-
sida, then 2, met a domesticated
donkey named C.J., owned by
MARTA board member David
Chesnut and his wife, Linda, of
Dunwoody.

»-The horse trainer was trying to
find some way to entertain her
daughter while riding lessons for
other youngsters were under way.
As soon as she saw Tasida with
C.J., she knew she’d found the an-
swer.

“My daughter went nuts over
him,” Mrs. Kulikowski recalls. And
the child, who’s now 41/2, is equally
nuts over Oreo. Even as Mrs. Kuli—

kowski speaks, Tasida climbs

aboard the once-wild animal’s back
for a ride. When Tasida isn’t riding
her burro now, she allows him to

~ lie down so that she can play with '

plastic dinosaurs on his back.

- Meanwhile, C.J.’s owners have
also adopted one of the Fund’s bur-
ros, Deborah Dunwody.

C.J., who died last year, was

“widely known for his community .

.I‘ ..A..____- _‘ A 1‘

‘94.

an night. club routines and church
miristmas pageants. Deborah hasn‘t.

:Iollowed in those civic hoof-steps —'

:3he's balked at church pageants and
wishes frightened suburban joggers
With an inepportune “bee—haw” now
:am then -— but she has a following
:yith neighborhood children who
:drop by to feed her peanut butter
:and jelly sandwiches.

or: Burros are smart, not. ,stubern
'Jhnd easy to love,- even if they’re
;sometimes made the butt of bad
fjokes by people who don’t know
:much about them says Fund volun-
«.H‘Ol‘ Carol Watson of Milner. “'l‘hev

.7-

..a», . I
~~.;3vork. according to Mrs. Chesnut,

get 'a lot of bad press,” says-Mrs.
Watson. ‘

‘z

Herfown burro, Amber, who
once roamed wild in the Mojave De— _
sort, is now the symbol of Amber- -
wood, her mail-order business for .

animal-free products, and she and

her husband, Bill, would like to de'"

velop a sanctuary- -. .

Miami native Kim Hernandez,

'31, who keeps two of the Fund‘s
burros along with horses, cows and
a pig on her 25~aere farm in Tate,
says, “Besides dolphins, We never
seen animals take up with human
beings so easily.”

And Karen Slingluff, 32, a nurse
and “backyard farmer” in Ball-
ground, compares her burro, Chico,
to a dog. “He follows me around es-
pecially when it's dinner time," she
says. “He talks to me."

Extraordinary Creatures gener- ‘
ally used as beasts of burden,bur-g.

res have throughout history done all
kinds of things for mankind. Jesus
rode one in his most triumpha‘l pro—
cession, and Robert Louis Stevenson
wrote of his adventures with one in
the 1870s. Thanks to the inspiration
of cartoonist Thomas Nast, the
Democratic Party has used one as
its symbol for more than a century.
And literature is replete with refer-
ences to them: Balaam’s Ass, one of
two talking animals in the Old Tes-
tament, for instance; the Golden
Ass, star of the second-century pre-
cursor to the novel “Metamorpho-
sis"; Eeyore of AA. Milne‘s “Pooh”
books; Benjamin in George Orwell's
“Animal Farm"; and Brighty, the
Grand Canyon burro featured in a
popular book and movie of the

19503. ‘- a * --
Another donkey, named Borong
alt. made headlines in the 1960s

'wh‘en it i'ﬂwas discovered to be the

painter of "Sunset Over the Adriat4

,ic," a work favorably reviewed by

Paris art critics before they discov-
ered the artist’s identity. The don-
key had painted the work with his
tail. ' «
So far, none of the Fund’s bur- ’
ros has displayed quite such talent,
but they’re “gentle, kind s‘ouls,"'
nonetheless, says Mrs. Chesnut. ,

Of course, she adds, “They’re
.wild. That's what some of these
peeple who shdwed up and wanted
to put the burro in the .back seat of
the Mercedes didn’t understand. But
if you keep them in a stall and are '
kind and feed them and water them,
they‘re no problem."

 

 




ATLANTA JOURNAL/CONSTITUTION - March 30, 1986

Florida’s roadside zoos are
target of Cleanup campaign

 

By Jennle Hess
Staff Writer

 

MIAMI — It’s feeding time at
Monkey Jungle, and the rats are on
the run. They are fat rats, almost
.as big as the golden lion tamarin
dangling in a tree nearby, and there
are lots of them. They scurry be-
neath the monkeys’ wire-bottomed
cages, snatching up leftovers that
fall through the cracks.

A Monkey Jungle employee
rounds the corner and aims his pel-
let gun at one of the fat rats. He’s
wearing a Mickey Mouse T-shirt. He
says the pellet gun is the only way
to get rid of the brazen rodents that
have become yet another attraction
at the Florida roadside zoo. .
“Food’s free,” he says, shrug-
ging his shoulders. .

Maj. Kyle Hill isn’t pleased to
hear that employees are shooting
rats during zoo visiting hours. Hill
is chief of inspections and training

with the law enforcement divisiOn
of the Florida Game and Fresh Wa-
ter Fish Commission.

“That’s not a good policy,” says
Hill, who coordinates inspection of
more than 300 zoos, tropical fish
farms and pet shops in the state.
Lately, Florida’s $100 million-a-year
roadside zoos have been under
heavy fire by the Humane Society
of the United States for “abomina-
ble” zoo-keeping policies that leave
the animals behind bars with “a
fate worse than death.”

The zoo operators deny these
charges and maintain they are com-
plying with state regulations.

Jeanne Roush, HSUS director of
captive wildlife protection, is push-
ing for massive changes in the
state’s zoo regulatory system and
better enforcement of existing laws.

“If they were enforced, thenI
wouldn’t have seen all these ani-
mals sitting out in the rain and
scum like I saw,” says Ms. Roush,

who toured a number of menageries

- during several visits last year and

said she saw old fecal matter and
rotting food that had been lying in
cages “for a long, long time.”

She saw animals in cages “with
no shelter whatsoever” and found a
zoo where an employee told her the
animals were fed Twinkies every
day.

Probably the worst menagerie
offense was the most common: ani-
mals living alone in cramped cages.
And tourists who slap down their $2
to $6 for zoo tours often are the
first to agree.

“When they’re cooped up like
that, I feel sorry for them,” says
Betty Maesner of Tacoma, Wash,
after a, walk through Alligatorland
Safari Zoo in Kissimmee, not far
from Disney World. “They don’t
seem to like it.”

 

See 2008 27A.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

JENNIE HESS/Sta?

STATELY BEAST: This tiger reposes in his cage at Alligatorland Safari Zoo in Kissimmee.

 

 




Bob Buatti of New York City
feels the same about the visibly
run-down Brevard Zoo in Mel-
bourne, which recently has been try-
ing to raise funds to move to a new
site. - ‘

“I’m not that impressed with
the zoo,” says Buatti, who is visiting
with his wife and two children.
“This monkey here, he doesn’t have
shade.” ~

No animal should have to live
like that, says a Gainesville wildlife
expert. But as long as roadside zoo

keepers in Florida are bringing in'

$100 million a year with their
“postage stamp collections” —— dis-
playing just one of each type of ex-
otic animal —- there will be plenty
of miserable lions and tigers and
bears. ,

. “There is a profit motive, and
they are not into it for any scientif-
‘ic purpose,” says Jack Brown, zoo
supervisor and instructor at the
Santa Fe Community College Teach-
ing Zoo.

The menagerie captives, Brown
says, “have just got to be bored to
tears. One of the main reasons I
feel sorry for them is that their
quality of life isn’t enhanced at all.”

Sometimes, it’s criminal.

Last year, Hill and his eight
state inspectors made 91 arrests
and issued 350 written warnings in
cases in which animals weren’t be-
ing cared for in accordance with
state law. Federal agriculture offi-
cials also inspect the zoos for c0m-
pliance with regulations that include
cage size and nutrition.

But Hill says the Humane Soci-.

ety went overboard when it pub-
lished in February a report called
“Life in Florida’s Concrete Jungles,
the HSUS Exposes the Horrors.”

“We were appalled by the scur-
rilous article,” Hill says. “Those
conditions simply do not exist as
they have depicted them.”

Hill says Ms. Roush exaggerated
charges that ostriches at one zoo
lost feathers because of poor diets
and the stress of menagerie life.

32‘ 3.: -lg§"‘.:“ % 1. ‘;::.-..
"
'k .

 

~ it”

“They had a perfect diet and no
stress,” says Hill of the ostriches in
a pen at Brevard Zoo. “It’s just
them picking their feathers off each
other.”

200 keepers speak out

The ostriches, Hill admits,
should be separated to stop the mu-
tilation and removed from exhibit

until their feathers return.

But Ms. Roush’s photograph of a
bare ostrich was taken last year,
and the large birds still were to-
gether in the pen two weeks ago,
plucking at one another’s mostly
flesh-exposed bodies.

Last November, Ms. Roush held
press conferences ,at three Florida
roadside zoos to publicize the
“squalid” conditions, and she raised
the ire of zoo owners around the
state. -

Delores Browning, who runs the
Alligatorland Safari Zoo with her
husband, Cecil, says Ms. Roush is a
“busybody” with nothing to do but
pick on zoos like hers.

“She’s trying to change the
world,” says Mrs. Browning, who
points out Alligatorland’s cages con-
form to state standards and are, in-
deed, all clean.

More than 2,000 alligators live
at the Brownings’ zoo along with
other animals that include a lone

' lion, a llama, foxes, deer and a

bear.

There’s also a macaque (a
short-tailed monkey) that sits star-
ing from a corner of its cage and
yanking its fur repeatedly.

It’s easier to Spot unhappy pri-
mates, says Brown of the Santa Fe
zoo, because “they are social
groomers, and they will begin to
overgroom. It’s a form of neurosis.”

Mrs. Browning says the ma-

caque is just looking for attention:
- “That monkey never does that un-

less you’re standing there watching

Florida may boast some of the

' " worst roadside zoos in the nation,

but states like Pennsylvania and
North Carolina aren’t far behind “in
terms of menagerie misery,” the

.5; Humane Society said in its rprtw.

Brown says he’s seen worse in
Tennessee, including bears in chick—
.en w1re cages.

In fact, Florida actually has
been, “in a way, a leader” for legis-
lating in the late 1960s minimum
standards for housing exotic ani-
mals, even if the standards “need to
come up somewhat.”

“Florida’s lucky — many states

don’t have anything like this,” he
says.

Some place for ‘exotics’

Zoo keepers are required to pro-
vide enclosures at least 12 feet by 6
feet and 8 feet high with three par-
allel swinging bars for a family of
four gibbons, Hill says.

An African or Asian lion gets at
least 15 feet by 10 feet of space and
a shelf 3 feet by 10 feet. For enter-
tainment, it gets two claw logs.

Not much fun, says Brown.

“If you are going to keep it for
a long, happy and active life a
good facility would go beyond that,”
he says.

The problem is, many menager-
ie owners take in homeless exotics
whose owners want nothing more to
do with them. These folks can’t
seem to build proper cages fast
enough, and the former owner of
the Brevard Zoo, Floyd Houser, was
arrested countless times, Hill says,
because he wouldn’t refuse an ani-
mal even if he had no place for it.

“There’s got to be some places
for these animals to go,” says Hill,
who emphasizes that not all zoos
can be as scenic and roomy as Flor-
ida’s p0pular Miami Metro Zoo,
Busch Gardens and Sea World. “I
guarantee you, these animals have
better cages than some of the in—
mates in Florida.”

Ms. Roush counters: “How low
areyou going to go to keep that an-
imal alive?”

It is particularly low, says Ms.
Roush, to humiliate zoo animals by
dressing them up to show off for
humans. At Monkey Jungle, where
primates wear clothes for some
shows,“I think it’s fair to say that
these animals are screwed up when
they are through with them,” she

a

”2,4. --- _:. «1-:

' JENNIE HESS

GATORS GALORE: Some of the 2,000-plus alligators living at the Kissimmee zoo crowd their tank.

 

 

 

 

 




 

PETS

 

Canines to Count On

SPECIAL HELPERS FOR SPECIAL PEOPLE

Though the
achievements of
seeing-eye dogs are
widely known, the
praises of two
devoted groups of
canines—service and
hearing dogs—
remain unsung.
Service dogs work
as the arms and/ or
legs of their owners;

CRAIG BUCHANAN

SERVICE DOGS

I'IEARING DOGS

DE GENNARO sruoios ' “

hearing dogs act as
the ears of their
masters. One of
these exceptional
canines may be just
the helping hand for
you, a family
member, or friend.

Every 11-year-old needs a special friend,
and for Kris Ledwick of Santa Rosa, Califor-
nia, that’s Ivy, a golden retriever trained
through Canine Companions for Indepen-
dence in Santa Rosa. Ivy helps Kris, who has
spina bifida, do many of the things he can’t
do for himself. She even attends public
school, carrying Kris’ supplies in her back-
pack. Kris’ mother says Ivy has sparked a
transformation in her son. “She’s given the
word ‘miracle’ a new definition.”

When the smoke detector sounds or the
alarm clock rings at Camille Jones’ house in
Los Angeles, a spunky pooch named Oscar
makes sure Camille knows it. Before coming
to live with Camille, Oscar was rescued from
street life and trained by the San Francisco
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Ani-
mals. Camille and her two daughters read
sign language; Oscar understands it, too.
“We each have a sign for our name,” says
Camille. “Oscar’s is the symbol for hero.”

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SERVICE DOGS
Service or support dogs are trained to

help people with all types of physical
disabilities that affect their mobility.
The type of help the service dog
provides depends on each person’s
individual needs.

A dog working with someone in a
wheelchair, for example, might turn on
and off switches that are out of reach,
pick up objects the person drops, pull
the wheelchair up inclines, open and
close doors, and carry a purse or brief-
case in a backpack. Service dogs are
trained to help individuals who have
trouble maintaining their balance go
up and down stairs (sometimes creating
a moving support rail with their bod-
ies). Some dogs provide physical sup-
port by standing close to help a person
up if he or she falls down; other dogs
may be trained to go for help when
their masters are in need of assistance.

 

What dogs are trained?

Because of the strength and endur-
ance required, support dogs usually are
large breeds like German shepherds,
Doberman pinschers, and retrievers.

Training programs are similar to
those for hearing dogs, though the dis-
abled person’s training time with the
dog may take longer. A couple of
groups that train service dogs also train
hearing dogs. Generally, no payment is
required from the disabled person, but
donations are accepted.

How do you find out more?

So far, about a dozen states recognize
service dogs and allow them access to
public places. A nationwide identiﬁca-
tion system hasn’t been set up yet,
though the dogs usually wear harness-
es and often backpacks.

For more information about service
dog programs across the country, con-

 

tact this agency: The Delta Society,
212 Wells Ave., S, Suite C, Renton,
WA 98055.

HEARING DOGS

Since the Minnesota Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty trained the ﬁrst
hearing dog about 10 years ago, more
than 2,000 dogs have begun serving
hearing-impaired owners.

What do hearing dogs do?

A hearing dog alerts its owner to
common sounds, such as a knock at the
door or a ringing phone. The dog gets
its owner’s attention by touch, then
leads him or her to the source of the
sound or runs back and forth between
the person and the place from which
the sound is coming.

For critical sounds, like ﬁre alarms,
unique signals are learned. Red Acre

continued

 

 

156

BETTER HOMES AND GARDENS, APRIL 1986

 

 




 

 

 

CANINES TO COUNT ON

 

continued

Farm in Massachusetts, for example,
teaches hearing dogs to make physical
contact with their owners (awakening
them if necessary), then to drop to a
‘ lying position.

What’s the cost?

Humane groups and societies for the
prevention of cruelty to animals train
hearing dogs, as do some private dog
trainers and some schools with dog-
related career courses. Though the
costs vary, approximately $3,000 is a
good estimate for training just one
hearing dog.

In most cases, recipients of hearing
dogs pay nothing. All expenses are cov-
ered by donations, often from a club,
group, or another organization that
agrees to “sponsor” a dog to be placed
with someone in its community. Any
payment a hearing-impaired individ-
ual makes usually is based on that per-
son’s ability to pay.

Who gets hearing dogs?

Some groups limit dogs to deaf
, individuals; others place dogs with
those who can bear with the help of
hearing aids. People who live alone or
with others who are hearing impaired
have the best chances of getting hear-
ing dogs. If there are adult family mem-
bers with normal hearing in the
household, hearing-impaired individ-
uals still may receive dogs through
some programs.

Only a few programs place hearing
dogs with children, since youngsters of-
ten can’t maintain the necessary con-
trol of a dog. Hearing dogs ordinarily
aren’t put in homes where there’s al-
ready a pet dog.

Where do the dogs come from?

For the majority of programs, hear—
ing dogs are selected at animal shelters,
after an extensive screening process.
But one program, Canine Companions
for Independence in California, trains
only its own specially bred dogs, which
are registered with the American Ken-
nel Club. Director Bonita Bergin be-
lieves that selective breeding may
produce canines with a natural instinct
for this work.

Most groups won’t train the pets of
hearing-impaired individuals as hear-
Eg dogs. It’s been found that these dogs

 

typically revert to being pets when they
return home.

How about training?

Training usually takes four to six
months, and approaches vary. With a
few programs, dogs and potential own-
ers are paired from the start, with
training done in the hearing-impaired
person’s home. In most programs, dogs
are trained for several months before
meeting their masters.

The hearing dog’s training is tailored
to the person’s needs. Some programs
allow prospective owners to choose
several initial sounds to be learned.
About a week or two before the dog
ﬁnishes its formal training, the dog,
trainer, and new owner come together.
This time helps the dog make the
transition between its trainer and
future owner.

A few weeks after the dog and mas-
ter ﬁnish their training, they return to
school. Or trainers go to the new
owner’s home for testing, so the dog can
be “certiﬁed” as a hearing dog. Many
training groups don’t turn over owner-
ship of the anirnal to the new owner
until it’s been certiﬁed.

Are the dogs accepted?

In nearly every state, certiﬁed hear-
ing dogs must be allowed to enter any
public place with their masters. The
most common hearing dog identiﬁca-
tion is an orange or yellow collar and
leash, which may have “certiﬁed hear-
ing dog” printed on them.

Where do you get details?

The American Humane Association
(AHA) acts as a clearinghouse to direct ‘
people to hearing dog programs across
the country. Write to: National Hear-
ing Dog Project, American Humane
Association, Box 1266, Dept. BHG,
Denver, CO 80201 (enclose a stamped,
self-addressed envelope).

It’s helpful to provide a few details
when contacting the AHA: where the
hearing-impaired person lives; what
type of home he or she has; whether the
person lives alone or with others;
whether other members of the house-
hold have hearing problems as well; the
age of the person and ages of other
household members.

—-Editor: Barbara Humeston, with
Emily Pinkston ‘

 

158

 

 

BETTER HOMES AND GARDENS, APRIL 1986

 




Warning:
may be

By Kit Miniclier
Denver Post Staff Writer

Libby Butler spends part of each
day calling people who are offering
to give away free pets to good
homes.

She’s not looking for a new dog
or cat. She’s trying to warn people
to beware of pet snatchers.

Butler learned the hard way.
Her pet boxer was taken by
man who promised a loving home.
It later turned out that the man
had given the Butlers a fake name,
address and phone number before

vanishing with the animal.

“There is a rash of that going on
right now,” said investigator Walt
Chin of the Colorado Bureau of In-
vestigation.

Pet snatching often increases in

early spring, because that’s when
the training sessions start for fight-

ing dogs.

Trainers, or their agents, will
take any kind of dog, and even a

cat, to give fighting dogs - usually
pit bulls -— a blood lust and prepare
them to fight for money, Chin and
various Humane Society officials
said Wednesday.

They also are looking for boxers
and other powerful dogs for
crossbreeding with pit bulls to de-
velop longer-legged fighting dogs,
said Betty Holmes of AAARF, the
Abused and Abandoned Animal

Rescue Foundation.

“This is the time to watch out.
There really is an upsurge in pro-

DENVER POST

 

 

March 20, 1986

Your pups
lght ba

13

M

eof yearis ripe

 

-; DOGS from Page 1-A

‘ curement for pit bull training,”
Holmes said

“People will call me time after

I time looking for any type of puppy,

or kitten or small dog who can’t
fight back to use for bait for fight-
ing dogs, ” she added. ‘

Chuck VanDuser’s ad in Wednes-
day’s Denver Post offered just the

sort of sturdy puppies wanted for ,

training or breeding fighting dogs.

His five pups are equal parts La-

brador, German shepherd and

A Wolf.

He was surprised When Butler, a

stranger, called him to warm him
; of pet snatchers and urge that he
‘ require a driver’s license and three

months of utility bills to prove the
identification and residence of any
potential taker.

.. “Three people told me callers
hung up when they asked for full
identification and the utility bills,”
Butler {said Wednesday.

 

__ for cat-, dognapping

Although pit bull fighting is ille-
gal in Colorado, there has never
been a conviction.

The law was strenthened last
year, but it still isn’t worth the con-
siderable investigatory effort, said
Chin It’s dangerous, timeconsum-
ing work “and the public would
string up” any undercover investi-
gator who put a dog in the ring to
gather evidence.

Those who conduct pit bull fights
“are extremely secretive and ex- t
tremely securityoconscious. These
people are very tough. Their un-
derground publications advertise j,
for mercenaries to ‘take care of’ .
informan .

“There have been cases, in Tex.
as and Oklahoma, where inform-
ants have disappear ” Chin said

“There are a lot more fights in
Colorado, in barns and even in
basements, than the general public
suspects, almost on a weekly basis,
and once a year there is a major
fight somewhere in the Denver
metro area,” he added.

The Denver Post I Brian Brainerd'

Bob Adcock gets to know Lady, a dog he got Wednesday through a classified ad.

 




 

 

 

 

 

TheDenverPost/Brlanarainerd

Chuck VanDuser plays with the remaining pups from a litter of 12
dogs; he received advisory calls from Libby Butler after advertising
the puppies in the classifieds.

 

 

THE DEKALB NEWS/ SUN (Atlanta, GA) - March 26, 1986

Readers' Forum:

,Don'f Turn Wildlife Refuges Over‘To Killers

 

‘
‘24 -

the trees, and of course, the fisher-
understand what a few special in- men do not understand the mean-
terest groups are trying to do with mg of the word. Desplte the fact all

our National Wildlife Refuges? of these activities are now being
- o. The word refuge __ shelter or carried on in national forests, and

protection frOm danger or distress; state fOI‘BStS throughout the coun-
aisafe place, asylum — seems to be try, to say nothing 0f the private
amord certain people do not under- game ranches where the mlghty
stand. The hunter who wants to hunter can stalk and kill an am-
k‘ill the animals, the trapper who me], these special interest groups

aisle wants to kill them with his/ are Still 110‘; satisﬁed, and want
Her traps; the logger who wants entry now to our w11d11fe refuges.
‘. ‘ If you don’t think this should

happen, then I suggest you write
tog-National Wildlife Refuge E.I.S.
Team, US. Fish & Wildlife Service
—- Room 2343 MIB, Washington,
DC 20240 and let them' know you
object to this invasion of a refuge
where everything has a right to be
protected.

”I wonder how many Americans

(Mrs) Connie Yarbrough
North DeKalb

' A

 

 




NATURE

The Denver Post/ Sunday, March 30, 1986

 

 

' fr"-
. . , “:52"
. - 39;.“
l‘ '34”, ‘
t ..
. a;
I‘ l .

m. ,
-"%..,.*’

.t»

I at
:s. '
i

.‘i
.V;

Europe’ 5 wild bison return

efrom the grave --'-— with help

of Goering and naturalists

By The New York Times

meserve where the last of their
penned" ancestors died out 67

.years ago.

‘a'RWi‘ldhbut they have come back,” .
Tex lained' Zbigniew Krasinski, a
we erin‘arian who has spent 25
SM

|,
(v

9""
"1

U1
\

a;

' 4min theBialowieza Forest National '

’J—Q‘-‘ m

1;-

“They were once extinct in the

years working with the animals
he describes as calm and clever.

.24 “We have 238 bison now wander-
swing the national park.”

6}
"'4?

0'

M

\P.
.'_

‘2

This, we think, is just the

"right "number to balance the elk,
the" moose, the other animals and
" to protect" the plant life of this
rare forest,” hesaid.

Czeslaw Okolow is the senior ,

scientist and the curator of the
museum in this small community

Park. He was born in the region
and he regards the protection of

7””this'nature preserve as a person-

al and passionate mission.
Because the forest was isolated
for centuries as a game preserve
for czars and, before them, for
Polish kings, the trees, shrubs,
flowers, and animals contain
genetic material and strains that

,IALOWIEZA, Poland . -.- _
The hulking European 'bi-;
.son‘ that once survived only
in, zoos are , lumbering unafraid ,
these days along the Polish-Soviet
”border in" an old czarist hunting

have disappeared Or have been
diluted elsewhere as timber was
cut or forest turned into farm-

. land. “That is why the bison sur—'
'vived here as long as they did af-

ter vanishing everywhere else in
Europe,” said Okolow.
Images of the bison, a some-

" what larger animal with a more

prominent hump than the Ameri-
can plains bison commonly called
buffalo, have been found etched
in caves and on stones in many
parts of Europe. The animals are
believed to have died out in Eng-
land in the 11th century and in
France in the 14th. Just before
World War I there were only sev-
eral hundred of them in the Bi-

. alowieza preserve and a smaller

group in the Caucasus.

“The First World War marked
the end of the czars and the end
of bison as well,” said Krasinslti.
The animals had been killed, and
by 1919 none were left in the for-
est or the Caucasus.

In 1923, an independent Poland,
newly reborn after 125 years of
imperial partition, began an in-
ternational effort to breed new
wild herds from stock that had
been given to zoos and aristo-
crats, as had been done with the
plains buffalo in the United
States. A number of the animals
were brought here but essential-

‘

 

'..-;?.. .14.“, j '

Associated Press

Two European bison. cousins of the American buffalo, graze in,

Poland’s Bialowieza Forest.

ly, said Okolow, all the bison
wandering the forest on this side
of the fence that marks the Soviet
border and a like number on the
Soviet side are descendents of
one bull named Borusse and two
cows named Biscaya and Biserta.

In the years before World War
II, Hermann Goering, Hitler’s
second in command, came to
know of the bison when he hunted
in the Polish park; and during the

war, when the region was occu-
pied by the Nazis, he extended his
patronage to the bison herd. At
the end of the war, there were 44
bison in the forest; 23 animals
had been killed in the fighting.
Tanks and mortars altered the
forest and the czarist castle
burned to the ground. .

Since then, the bison, watched
over by a staff of naturalists,
have grown in numbers.

 




HOUSTON POST - March 24, 1986

Pets still welcome at state’s

 

. .Dear Dr. Shan-
non: I have enjoyed
your pet column
and find it very en-
lightening and in-
formative. I would
like to pass along
this very disturbing
news, so you can in-
form your readers
of a new enforced
rule at the state parks.
,. :In recent years the state parks
have had a leash law for pets.
When campers broke the law, the
park rangers have rarely gotten
involved or enforced the law. We
rer ently called the Kerrville State
Park for reservations and were
told absolutely no pets were al-
lowed —— no exceptions.
. This new rule has really hurt us
as we have two Shih-Tzus who are
_a part of our family. To even con-
sider boarding them in a kennel
for a week is an unbearable
thought. It is most unfortunate

that the rudeness and thoughtless- .

ness of a few campers who let their
pets run loose and disturb others
resulted in this harsh, unfair law
that will adversely affect the ma-
jority of responsible campers who
obey the law and enjoy their pets’
companionship. .

I feel the law will cause many
more problems since many re—
tired senior citizens travel exten-
sively with their devoted pets. This
regulation may cause otherwise
law-abiding citizens to break the
law or lie and try to conceal their
pets and walk them after dark.
,«Others might camp in unautho-
grized areas or simply choose to
:stay home. I can only assume that
ithis rule applies to all state-sup-
:ported parks throughout Texas.

‘ Maybe your readers can sug-
"‘gest some courses of action
:campers can take, such as writing
-'to our elected officials and letting
them know how we feel about this
uni-American unconstitutional law.
Camping is a great American out-
door activity that keeps the family
“together and economically it’s the
only form of vacation a lot of us
are able to afford. Any suggestions
you may have on this matter
would be greatly appreciated.

'l Dear Reader: {hank you for

‘DF'ROme-I
“5ha“"°“

Cresﬁdyt

your concern. Your comments
certainly gained my attention as I
agree that all responsible pet own-
ers shouldn’t be penalized because
of the actions of a few who simply
don’t care.

I called the main office of the
Texas Parks & Wildlife Depart—
ment in Austin to voice my opin-
ion. However, I was informed that
the law hasn’t been changed or
amended as pertains toanimals.
The parks employee read a por-
tion of the Parks and Wildlife code
which concerns pets.

I requested that a gopy of the
code or legislative enactments be
sent to me. The following state-
ment is included under General
Regulations No. 1.10: “Pets must
be secured by a leash of 6 feet or
less or confined. Pets other than
seeing eye dogs are not permitted
in public buildings or swimming
areas. Horses may be ridden only
in areas designated for that pur-
pose. Noisy, vicious or dangerous
animals are not permitted.”

I made follow-up calls to the 10-
cal state parks and wildlife agency
and they confirmed the above reg-
ulation as valid and unchanged.

Thinking that there might be
some unique situation that would
cause the Kerrville State Park to
have special restrictions, I called
Kerrville and stated that I had
three small dogs and was consid-
ering bringing them along on my
next camping trip. I was told
that the only restrictions pertain-
ing to pets were: They must be
confined or secured by a leash and
not noisy, vicious or dangerous.
The employee further indicated
that this regulation is enforced.

Obviously, there must have
been a breakdown in communica-
tion between you and Kerrville —
or possibly you talked with some-
one who didn’t know the state reg-
ulations. I regret the anxiety this

has caused you, but we can all be
happy that pets will continue to be
allowed in Texas state parks. Our
biggest challenge is to educate
those pet owners who do not re-
spect the state regulations and,
hopefully there will never be a ne-
cessity to change the state laws.
Thanks again for caring.

Dear Dr. Shannon: Recently
while shopping at an area mall, I
came upon an area containing
machines with rabbits, chickens
and ducks inside them. Live ani-
mals! A person would drop a quar-
ter in the slot, and the animal
would then perform for a minute
or two and be rewarded with some

food.

It seemed cruel to me that peo-
ple would cage an animal in a ma-
chine of this nature for hours at a
time. The poor animal would then
await somebody to drop money
into his particular machine so he
could be rewarded with some food.
Please give us your thoughts.
Thanks.

Dear Reader: This further ex-
emplifies another method in which
mankind exploits animals. I am
very familiar with these barbar-
ic devices. Most of the animals are
conditioned to perform as a result
of a mild stimuli triggered off by
the insertion of a coin.

It is very difficult to prove ani-
mal cruelty in these cases as the
animals are usually well-fed and

in good condition. However, if peo— .

ple would stop putting money into
the machines, I’m certain they ~
would be discontinued. Unfortu-
nately, you didn’t provide an ad-
dress for the mall mentioned.

The Houston. SPCA will investi-
gate the circumstances if you de-
sire. Call 869-8229 and provide
more information to one of the hu-
mane investigators / educators.
The city of Houston’s animal ordi-
nance has specific restrictions
concerning fowl and rabbits, so if
these machines are located with-
in the city limits, the commercial
exploiter may be violating a city

. ordinance.

PET NOTES
El Congratulations to Dr. J im}

parks i

g more
oming
anSIt,

 

handled in a humane manner. If

you ’re interested in knowin
about this program for inc
and outgoing animals in tr

outstanding and the animals are
call 821-2244.

Gray, Tom Schooler and Todd E1-
hott for developing Animal-Port-

Houston. The new facilities at In-

tercontinental Airport are

 




 

OAKLAND, CA TRIBUNE - March 18, 1986

Knowland zoo

38“.)

,l; M!

U-

i "t..('§

to close unless
council OKs loan

By Kathy Zimmerman
The Tribune

b :: 1;)

. The Knowland Park Zoo will be forced to shut down if the
City council does not approve a $60, 000 loan to enable the
nonprofit East Oakland facility to stay open through June« the

200’ s Operators have warned.

‘U L“

The city council’s four- member Budget, Finance and Au-
dit Committee will consider today a loan request for the zoo
listed among 10 of the worst 1n the country 2 1/.2 years ago by the

Humane Society of the United
States.

In October, the council ap-
proved a $433,000 bailout pack-
age after the operators, the East
Bay Zoological Society, project-
ed a $368,780 deficit by July 1
Most Of that money, however,
was earmarked for capital im-
provements with .Only $120,000
designated for operating expen—
ses.

City staff has recommended
the council grant a $60,000 loan
from the city’s Emergency Con-
tingency Fund, calling it “cru-
cial if the zoo is to survive” until
a new budget year begins July 1.

The 200 society has said it will
repay the loan in September if
good weather helps paid attend-
ance

Some council members, in-

cluding Mayor Lionel Wilson and '

Carter Gilmore, who sit on the
budget committee, in the past

Even though the operators say
the loan will be repaid in Sep-
tember, the money in the emer-
gency fund must last the city un-
til July 1, when it will be replen-
ished at the start of the 1986-87
budget year. .

“I think they’re going to have
a problem getting the loan,” Gil—
more said. “I would be very,
very reluctant to dip into that
fund anymore because it’s so
low.

“I’m not pleased with the zoo
anyway. They have a lot of man-
agement problems. The way it
has been Operated, it has not
been valuable to the city.”

Wilson could not be reached
for comment.

Zoo Operators say they need
the $60, 000 loan to cover reve-
nue losses suffered last month

due to rain and increased Operat-
ing expenses. Insurance alone in—
creased $30,000 this year, ac-
cording to city Officials.

In October the city council set
up a $120, 000 contingency fund-
for the zoo, allowing the opera-

balked at bailing out the zoo.
Both Gilmore and Wilson, who
blamed poor management for
the 200’s financial woes, were
not at the October meeting at
which the council approved the

financial aid package.

ZOO General Manager Joel
Parrott could not be reached for
comment. In the past, however,
zoo backers have said the city
shares responsibility for the
problems for failing to give the
zoo adequate financial support.

Last week, the mayor voted
against giving $81,000 to the
school district to fund a tutorial
program, saying the emergency
fund, which currently holds
about $544,000, is “dangerously
low” for a city the size of Oak-
land.

tors to use it as needed. The city
also authorized the use of $66, —

000, previously reserved for”
street repairs at Knowland -=
Park, to repair the giraffe house ~
and to fund a new exhibit for the ‘
ocelots. '

The council also agreed to al-‘r‘
low the zoo to charge admission
fees to generate about $20,000 in 5
additional income. The new fees, I
however, were not implemented
until December.

 

 




q-A l'HE'lAMPA TRIBUNE. TuesdavMarcn “NEE DENVER POST - March 23, 1986

 

 

Nkerswm.

Zoo computer dating

By The New York Times

WASHINGTON — Birds and bees
rely on Mother Nature to find suitable
companions. Some zoo animals rely on
Jonathan D. Ballou and his computer.

Ballou plays electronic matchmaker

. for the “golden lion tamarin, a small
red-orange primate from Brazil. A
genealogist at the National Zoological
Park, he keeps track of bloodlines of
all such animals in zoos around the
world and recommends to zoo keepers
the best combinations for breeding.

For example, his computer recently
showed that a tamarin at the National
Zoo could best find breeding harmony
with a tamarin in Cologne, West Ger-
many. Over the past decade, zoo spe-
cialists elsewhere have begun to do

-, , . . , .7 , .. computer dating for other species,

' ‘ _ . ‘ ‘ ’ many endangered, so genealogical in-
Miniature monkeys formation can be used to minimize

inbreeding and to maximize diversity.

 

 

- - Brazilian
Moway, left, and Gooney, two three month old.
white-brushed monkeys cling to the fingers otltheir keeper
in this picture distributed Monday by the Madrid Aquarium
in Spain where they were born in captuvrty.

 

1&3-1-1‘262 »: _,_.;.; :

use . .
Associated Press

HOUSTON CHRONICLE - March 23, 1986

I

Spring sunbath

A group of turtles crowd onto‘ a log in the swamp Both the turtles and the zoo visitors were enjoy-
exhibit at the Audubon Park Zoo in New Orleans. ing pleasant springtime weather.

 




 

{Lara ~3~ '?-rf,‘§ we a 31‘, .

L .’

 

 

DALLAS TIMES HERALD

» w? r

 

ll'Veterinarian rules,
"animal i kingdom '

with a gentle/land

By CH‘RISTOPHERABOGAN .
I'Staff Writer," . .
' N AN ERA 0F medical specialists, Dr. Ben.
nie L. Raphael is an extraordinary generalist
Among her 12,000 regular patients. .she
counts no less than 450 different Species, aris-

ing from all corners of nature’s kingddmjLi- - l~

ons and lizards and venomous snakes. tapirs
and tortoises and mona monkeys . . . she sees
‘ - themall. . -, '9

At 35, Raphael is the‘stafi‘ veterinarian at the Dallas
Zoo and one of only 17 people in the United States certi~
ﬁed by the American College of Zoological Medicine for
"her medical knowledge of exotic animals. -

Among her regular patients are more celebrities than a
_~Beverly Hills MD. could ever hope to claim. The 200’s
collection includes more than 100 endangered Species,
"including rare okapis, lowland gorillas, East African bon~
gos, grevy’s zebras, Siberian tigers, black rhinos and re-
ticulated giraffes. . - , ,
- 1 House calls, a vestige of another generation in the

‘ medical profession, are still as common as penicillin in ‘

:her practice. When some of your patients weigh up to
6,000 pounds and are as big as a pickup truck -- as is

Papa, the 200’s curmudgeonly Nile hippopotamus -— you‘
ﬂunk twice about inviting them into your Ofﬁce. And so,

> routinely, Raphael goes out to see her patients in their
habitats,

“I try to make rounds through the Zoo almost every

7-day,” says Raphael, a woman who is diminutive in size
but clearly not in stature. One of only 126 full-time zoo

 

 

- Feb 27, 1986

 

 

Arvets among 'appoximately 20,000 veterinarians in the
'United States, she earned her special certification after

completing a residency program and passing a two-day
examination. “Where 'I go just ’ depends on who’s sick.
One aﬂemoon I may visit the" snakes and reptiles. But
"then, if one of the primates gets sick, I’ll head-over to the
monkey house.” _ ' , " ' ,

She also practices preventive medicine. One recent af-

ternoon'was spent giving physical exams to the 200’s
mona monkeys. During the checkup, Raphael collected

10'.

 

 

 

As the Dallas ZOo’s
medical expert, Dr.
Bonnie L. Raphael is
a vet for all species.
TOp left, she per-
forms a-dental exam
on a mona monkey.
Above. she inspects
an injured box turtle.
When Rosco. a rare
black rhinoceros,
was seen limping,
Raphael made a
house call, left, to
gingerly examine his
tender foot.

Eric Gav I Deﬁes Times Herald

 

blood samples from the feisty Iii-pound primates, ran TB

tests, dental exams and checked for intestinal bacteria.

X-rays help her assess each monkey’s heart and lungs.
As a matter of survival, Raphael has cultivated an im-

peccable bedside manner. It’s little wonder why. She’d

pay dearly if she caused a patient such as Rosco, a 3,500-

pound black rhinoceros, any personal offense.

' As Raphael climbed into Rosco's pen one recent after-

See ZOO on Page 9

 

 

 




noon, she sounded like a doting
mother attending to a child's
skinned knee. '

“Hey, son, they say your foot 5
sore,” Raphael said in a voice as
smooth as honey.

Like a Swedish masseuse, she
gingerly poked and kneaded Ros-
co's ponderous hind foot while ”a
zoo keeper scratched the rhino 5
back with an industrial scrub
brush. All this attention was more

: than Rosco could endure standing
. up. He obligingly lay down on his
" side, shut his eyes and seemed
* ready to purr like a pussycat. ..

‘ ‘,‘He likes my tender fingers.

' mused Raphael as she searched for
an abscess or some other ' injury
that might explain why zoo keep-
ers had earlier observed Rosco
limping badly. “You're such a good
boy. Yes, you are." .

From this endangered black rhi-
no, Raphael continued her rounds,
moving next to an assembly of g1-
raffes. Without going into their
pen, her eyes moved over each ani-
mal, checking for any sign of ill-
ness, injury or unusual behavior.

“This is Bonnie,” she said, paus-
ing to watch an elderly giraffe.
“She is old —- 33 or 34 —- and real
arthritic. Her lower joints are really
slowing down on her.”

This day Bonnie looked OK, and
so Raphael continued on her
rounds. _

“These are pygmy hippos —— lit-
tle sausages on legs," she observed
cheerfully, stoppmg in front of
three small hippos who eyed her
suspiciously and seemed ready to
charge. “That’s Toots, Boo and
P00. Are you going to show off and
come down and threaten us?"

Rambling through the zoo, she
later looked in on Cape buffalo and
flamingos, klipspringers and
orangutans. , '.

It is her job to keep the zoos
2,000 residents —— many of which
cannot easily be replaced ——
healthy and whole and, when pos-
sible, reproducing. Often, Raphael
must work by instinct, led only by

. careful observation and common
sense. Medical research pertaining
to many of the animals is scant and
for many others there are no refer-
ence material at all to consult in

. time of illness.

“Sometimes it's a challenge. a

little bit like the blind leading the
blind,” she commented, as she sat
hunched over a microscope, study-
ing the blood of a rare suni ante-
lope. “But, on the other hand, they
all are living creatures and alike in
that they have blood or some kind
of biochemical system.”

Her days are often as motley as
the creatures in the 200. One morn~

_ ing may require her to perform
surgery on a reptile while in the
afternoon she might have to spend
several hours vaccinating baboons.
The wall calendar in her tiny clinic
is a clutter of appointments with
bison, addax, gorillas and large
cats.

The constant flux of a zoo vet’s
life is its own vexation and reward.
She is on call 24 hours a day and
her work is never done.

> “But, then, there’s always some-
thing new, and that’s what what
keeps me going,” she adds. “Some-
times I’ll do things that have never
been done before, like removing a
[diseased] kidney from a Blair’s-
King snake.”

When the 200's small herd of
suni, miniature antelope indige-
nous to Southeast Africa, were
stricken two weeks ago with an
epidemic of pneumonia, Raphael
had to drop nearly everything else.
Three of 20 sunis died in one week,
reducing the size of the herd by 15
percent. She began administering a
series of antibiotics and the experi-
mental drug interferon to help the
rest of these rare creatures, which
are the size of poodles with pencil-
thin legs, ﬁght off illness. The
strategy seems to be working.

Raphael says she recognized ear—
ly in her life what was her chosen-
course.

“Sometime when I was about 5
years old and wewere taking our
boxer to the vets, I said, ‘Gee, I
want to be a vet,’ ” she recalls. Her
parents were supportive and she
eventually earned her degree in
veterinary medicine from Michi-
gan State University. After several
years of ordinary private practice,
she began her focus on exotic
animals.

Then, in 1981, she was chosen to
become the Dallas Zoo's first full—
time veterinarian, Working togeth-
er. Raphael and a cadre of profes~
sionally trained zoo curators have
made major improvements in ani-

 

--—- m.

ma] management at the 200. One
srgnof these advances is that the
survival rate of newly born zoo ani~
mals jumped from 25 to 75 percent
during the four-year period. be-
tween 1979 and 1983.

In addition, Raphael has extend-
ed the 200’s involvement with a va-
riety of research programs, includ-
ing an embryo-transplant project
to help bolster the declining

populations of rare and endan-
gered animals. ,

.. Like other general medical prac-
titioners who follow their patients
from cradle to grave, Raphael ad-
ministers to the 200’s animals from
nest to necropsy. ’

,On this recent afternoon, amid
appointments with antelopes and a
rhinoceros, she also performed, a

'more solemn medical procedure:
"She euthanized two terminally ill
snakes — one a New Guinea Death
Adder and the other a brown and
coral King snake.

“People don’t realize it, but these
guys do have a neurological system
and can feel pain,” she said, as she
examined the elderly King snake,
which was listless and had been
losing weight. “People don’t identi‘

fy with snakes because they look
so different,” she added
reflectively.

Quickly, then, she injected the
snake with a “euthanasia solu‘tion."
used to swiftly end the life of dy-
ing animals.

Then, holding the snake gentiy
in her hands, she waited as it sue
cumbed to the injection.

“Bye-bye," she said softly.

 




THE TAMPA TRIBUNE - March 23, 1986

i team rit5

By BETTINITA HARRIS
Tribune Staff Writer

It began as just another proposed
research project at the University of
Florida that would use animals.

But then came protests, hun-
dreds of angry letters, telephone
calls and the negative publicity sur-
rounding an experiment that called
for the near-drowning of 22 dogs.

And while Dr. Richard Melker
and Dr. Jerome Modell, UF profes-
sors, recently withdrew their re-
, quest for $18,000 to fund the experi-
ment from the American Heart As-
sociation, UF officials say the saga
that began in mid-February is not
over yet.

The university and, to a certain
‘ degree, the heart association are suf-
fering fallout from the public’s nega-
tive reaction. .

“It hurt us,” said Al Alsobrook,
UF vice president of university rela-
tions. “People just reacted. They had
vivid images of us taking dogs and
putting them under water.”

The controversy also may have
pinched the heart association’s
“ money bag, according to Dr. Ray
Olsson, a member of the research
committee of the heart association’s
Florida affiliate.

3in
ham

55‘ a re

“I’m sure it has affected. the
heart association in some way,” said
Olsson, who is also a professor at the
University of South Florida’s College
of Medicine. “It will be April or May
before there is a clear picture of the
fund-raising issue.”

If donations are down, Olsson
said answers to problems such as the
prevention of heart disease or stroke

~ .will be delayed because there will

not be enough money to study the
problems. .

The debate began in mid-Febru-
ary when a UF animal care commit-
tee approved a project for the simu-
lated drowning of stray dogs.

Researchers wanted to inject
water into the lungs and stomachs of
stray dogs to test the Heimlich
maneuver vs. mouth-to-mouth resus-
citation.

Dr. Henry Heimlich, a Cincinnati
physician who invented the maneu-
ver, proposed that his maneuver be
used before mouth-to-mouth ventila-
tion in near-drowning victims. '

The heart association delayed its
decision on Heimlich’s proposal be-
cause sufficient research had not

' been conducted.

“The case that was made to the
public was clearly aimed at being
sensational,” Olsson said.

But by the time the story hit the
media, Alsobrook said, the public’s
perception already had formed.

“We had not done a good job of
educating (the public) and com-
municating the procedure and the
facts of the case,” Alsobrook said.

The fact that Heimlich openly
criticized the experiment by calling
it cruel didn’t help matters, Also-

-. brook said.

“We recognized that we stubbed
our toe pretty badly,” Alsobrook
said. “It hurt us. I can’t judge how
much right now, but it hurt us.”

Alsobrook said university offi-
cials mailed letters to elected offi-
cials, UF alumni and the Board of
Regents explaining the now-defunct
experiment.

He also said his staff will attempt
to send letters to concerned citizens
who wrote to the university.

,The controversy led Duval and
Clay counties to temporarily ban the
sale of pound animals to UF re-
searchers. Clay County subsequently
has lifted the ban. Duval, which is
UF’s largest supplier, has not.

If outlawing pound seizure be-
comes a trend, Olsson said it will in-
crease the cost and quality of educa~
tion that medical students receive.

Research costs also would in«

f. .. .. .. it if"? -::

Dr. Ray Olsson says the
incident may hurt American
Heart Association fund-raising.

crease, Olsson said. And that in-
crease would be passed to consum-
ers. '

Meanwhile, Alsobrook said what .

happened at the UF may have a

chilling effect on animal research in
Florida and perhaps through the
country.

Olsson agreed.

“It may (may cause) some
drowning victims their lives because
we do not know whether the Heim-
lich maneuver is really worth
doing,” Olsson said.

But Heimlich disagreed.

“The elimination of torture and
unnecessary animal sacrifice will
enhance the stature of medical re-
search,” Heimlich said.

 




THE NEW YORK TIMES, SUNDAY, MARCH 30, 1986

 

 

 

Poles Discover That Their Love of Dogs Can Become T axing

 

By MICHAEL T. KAUFMAN
Special to The New York Times

WARSAW -—- In Poland, a country of
37 million peeple, where meat is ra-
tioned and apartments are hard to find,
there are said to be seven million or
eight million dogs.

Poles are evidently willing to make
sacrifices for their dogs. People who
line up for meat and live in close quar.
ters are seen walking Afghans or lum-
bering St. Bernards as well as more
compact breeds. In every neighbor-
hood, there are men and women who
keep three or four and even more dogs.

Truck drivers will stop on highways
to feed biscuits to strays. A film direc-
tor said recently that the love of dogs
was a tradition carried over from the
days when the often impoverished
rural aristocracy set standards of
behavior.

“A man was judged by the way he
treated his horse, his dogs and his wife,
often in that order,” said the director,
Wojciech Marczewski.

But now the relationship between
people and dogs is being threatened by
higher local dog taxes that in some
communities are costing dog owners

the equivalent of a surgeon’s monthly’

salary. .

“We all know there are too many
dogs,” said Bozina Wahl, a painter who
shares her attic apartment with four
dogs and five cats. “But raising taxes
so steeply will not reduce the number of
dogs, it will just increase the number of
strays, cause misery for the animals,
bring suffering to their owners. It is
irrational and counterproductive.”

Miss Wahl owns an art gallery and is
one of three honorary chairmen of War-
saw’s chapter of the Animal Protection
Society, which seeks a rollback in the
taxes that went into effect this year.

One aspect of the law that she says
she regards as ridiculous is that the
local rates vary, ranging from a token
payment of $2 to $100 or more.

The result, she says, is that some
people are registering their pets with
friends and relatives in low tax areas.

Moreover, some places have report-
edly reduced or waived the taxes on
purebreds while imposing them on
mongrels.

“This is a case of racist Nuremberg
laws for dogs,” said Michal Nowak, a
printer, who has a German shepherd
and two mongrels.

“You know, of course, that members
of the Kennel Club were exempt from
paying the old insignificant tax, and
they can get ration cards for their dogs
that are not available to owners of mon-
grels,” he said. “It is all a part of Pol-
ish snobbism and ostentation. We can
hardly feed ourselves, so what do we

 

do? We take our big, registered pedi-
greed dogs for a walk.”

Grzegorz Bachara, the director of
the Animal Protection Society, is
trying to obtain both a reduction in the
dog taxes and a more uniform local
schedule of charges. Like Miss Wahl,
he said it was doubtful whether any
government devoted so many re-
sources to pets as did the Polish Gov-
ernment. Dog food and subsidies were
even paid to people who take in strays,
but he says he regards the new taxes as
misguided.

He said there had already been a rise
in strays roaming for scraps. The ani-
mal shelter in Warsaw is full, and the
number of adoptions has dropped.

 

He said there were more than a
dozen people who have taken in 10 to 80
stray dogs. If these people are liable for
the new taxes, Mr. Bachara said, they
will have to release the dogs, further
raising the numbers of strays.

Miss Wahl is angry about the situa-
tion, which she attributes to a lack of
forethought in putting into effect the
levies once the Government authorized
local councils to tax dogs.

She says she looks on the issue “as a
moral obligation.” ' .

“ We have allowed the dog popula-
tion to rise absurdly,” she said. “The
result is that someone has to care for
them. Who is supposed to do it?”

 

 

 

 

‘ example of man’s ‘fcallousness and

 

Kari/€55 "

The USDA: order to brand the
faces of cows and calves sched-
uled for slaughter is but another

indifference to‘ the welfare of
those to whom he, owes the most.
This attitude prevails often
enough toward family and friends,
but it is almost universal in man’s
dealings with‘the lower animals.

 

It‘s as though.,these cows and

-«A .- ..___..~—..._......

, )E/L/VEE -,.A.'/?"5 ,2 5~ 2:; 524
. i _ A humane method of slaughtering .

calves won’t suffer enough in the
slaughtering; they must have a
preview of things to come.

History has shown that man can
always find alternative solutions
to any problem or. course of ac-
tion. , .

However, so long as the public
is apathetic to the plight of ani-
mals unfortunate enough to be

 

those on whom our standard of liv-

 

ing depends, there is no incentive
for anyone to develop more
humane methods of dealing with
them.

In our code of human ethics, the
Old Testament text, “The right-
eous man regardeth the life of his
beast,” seems to have slipped
through the cracks

CATHERINE A. HURLBUTT

Denver

 

. Some P301316 have no right to own—pet‘s

I am frustrated. and angry. Just
this afternoon, I'saw a man driv-
ing a small, dark red pickup truck
down Blake Street with either a
Chesapeake Bay retriever or a
chocolate Labradbr retriever rid-
ing in the truck bed. ‘

Obviously, the driver hadn’t re~
alized that with the tailgate re-
moved there was nothing to pre
vent the dog from sliding out of

%_______

the back of the truck. The unfor-
tunate dog was shaking with fear
as it struggled vainly to keep from
being thrown out.

It finally did happen, and the at-
tention of the driver was attracted
by the sound of many car horns.
He simply ordered the dog back
into the truck bed and drove on.

He had no idea of the poor dog’s
plight. That man should have been

 

horsewhipped My frustration is
twofold in the matter - first, that
there is no law in Colorado that
stops people from allowing or re-
quiring their dogs to ride in the
back of an open pickup truck and,
second, that such people as that
driver should be allowed to own

ts. ‘
CHRISTOPHER J. CLARKE

Denver

 

_.-..._.___.___. _____ ___—_______J




The Great Scientific Con
— Vivisection —

The medical profession and the pharma-
ceutical industry, aided and abetted by the
government and the media have succeeded
in making people think that more and more
animal experimentation is necessary in the
fight against disease. Let us look at the facts.

1 . Drug Research

Drugs proliferate, as do their side effects,
creating more illness, more drugs and more
cartels to market them. lt is not generally
realised that between 11% and 25% of people
in hospital and up to 40% of people in the
community suffer from the side effects ofthe
drugs they have taken. All these drugs have
been rigorouslytested on animals. And yet to
quote a few well-known examples, Eraldin,
Stilboestrol and Thalidomide all produced
tragic results when taken by humans. Obvi-
ously people must react differently to rats,
dogs and guinea pigs.

2. Smoking Research

1,900 animals per annum undergo smoking
tests in this country. Animal smoking experi-
ments are also done in many European
countries and in the USA. Have any major
conclusions been reached as a result of all
this animal torture? Of course not. But it
keeps the scientists in jobs and cons the
consumer public into believing that govern-
ments, multinational companies like lCl and
tobacco giants care about disease from

tobacco smoking. if they did care they
would stop manufacturing these products
altogether. Their only interest is in profits.

3. Cancer Research

This has become a multi-thousand pound
industry which uses more than 200,000
animals perannuminGreatBritainaloneand
funds jobs for thousands of scientists. For
200 yearsthey have been grafting and chemi-
cally inducing tumours into healthy animals.

Healing for humans will not come from the
mutilation of animals.

The medical and political establishments,
particularly in the USA, crush news of cancer
cure and relief from vitamin therapy and diet.
Why? Because cancer research the world over
has become more profitable for ’Science’
than truth. So in spite of the astronomical
expenditure on repetitive animal experi-
ments, cancer remains the perennial enigma.

‘H

In the USA more people make a living from 1

cancer than die from it. A constant frenzy is
whipped up to keep the funds pouring in.

Major conclusions from drug research,
smoking research and cancer research are
never reached, as scientists become more
and more obsessed with disease and vivi-
section. What constitutes health remains
undiscovered.

It is only you, the human guinea-pig, who can refuse to be brain-
washed and manipulated by these powerful forces.

It is only you who can demand Open government so that the true facts
about vivisection cannot be hidden by a scientific elite.

Do not accept animal-tested drugs from GPs without enquiry as to
their side effects.

l

 




Health and Healing

ANIMAL AID is a society dedicated to
campaigning for the total abolition of all
experiments on living animals. We feel that
vivisection is the worst of the many ways in
which animals are abused by man.

We make no distinction between medical
and non-medical experiments since we
believe that cruel experiments on defence-
less creatures can never be justiﬁed.

Realising that people must have treatment
when they are ill, we direct people to organ-
isations concerned with alternative methods
of treatment which do not rely on animal
experimentation (see below).

We are also interested in the prevention of
illness by proper diet, exercise and right
living. In our view the medical profession has
been putting too much emphasis on trying to

cure symptoms and not enough on finding
out the causes of illnesses.

Our policy is strictly non-violent relying on
persistence, determination and sheer hard
work to achieve our aim.

By printing and distributing leaflets and
posters we aim to Open pe0ple's eyes to the
full horror of the atrocities perpetrated
against animals in the name of science.
We organise demonstrations and protest
marches with the idea of attracting as much
publicity as possible. For too long now
scientists have brought pain and misery to
millions of defenceless creatures behind the
locked doors of their laboratories.

It is our task to make the full truth known. The
movement is growing steadily, so please join
us and help to bring the day nearer when
vivisection will be totally abolished by law.

 

Organisations for Health and Healing

British Acupuncture Association 81 Register Ltd,
34 Alderney Street, London SW1. (01—834 1012)

British Homoeopathic Association,
27a Devonshire Street, London W1. (01—935 2163)

British Naturopathic and Osteopathic Association,
Frazer House, 6 Netherhall Gardens, London NW3.
(01-435 7830)

National Childbirth Trust,
9 Queensborough Terrace, London W2.
(01—221 3833)

National Institute of Medical Herbalists,
School of Herbal Medicine, 148 Forest Road,
Tunbridge Wells, Kent. (Tunbridge Wells 30400)

British Chiropractors ’Association,
5 First Avenue, Chelmsford, Essex CM1 1RX.

National Federation of Spiritual Healers,
Old Manor Farm Studio, Church Street, Sunbury
on Thames, Middlesex. (Sunbury 83164)

Diet
Vegan Society,
47 Highlands Road, Leatherhead, Surrey.

Vegetarian Society,
53 Marloes Road, Kensington, London W8 6LA.
(01—937 7739)

Nature Cure

The Nature Cure Clinic Ltd,
15 Oldbury Place, London W1. (01-935 2787)

 

Address

[3 I wish to become an annual/life
member of Animal Aid and enclose E
annum; £2 for non-earners; £6 family membership; E50 life membership.)
I enclose a E
Please send
(100 leaflets cost us [1 to print and post)

Please send further information about your campaigns. (sae appreciated)

Name (Mr. Miss. Mrs. Ms.)

1

subscription (£4 per

donaﬁon.
copies of this leaflet.

 

 

 

Tel. No.

 

 

QCastle Street -Tonbridge - Kent -TN91BH -Telephone: (0732) 364546

 

 

j

 

 

 




eCa ncernesearch

Beagle dog with implanted cancerousturnours. Photo taken in'
‘New York laboratory; but similar research :5 going on in Britain

 




What happens to animals
in cancer research?

Every year thousands of animals are used in cancer research. Many will have
tumours implanted under the skin and then be observed as the tumour grows and
ultimately invades vital body organs. Suffering continues until death intervenes.

Other animals will be subjected to high levels of radiation to look at the effect
of irradiation on the artificially induced cancers. Often limbs are irradiated, become
gangrenous and ultimately fall off.

Animals are fed volumes of different substances which it is thought may be
cancer causing agents. This often results in them vomiting repeatedly until death
intervenes, often after severe fits.

Tumours have been induced in all parts of animals’ bodies, their chests, their
spines, their ears and their tails. External tumours are often chewed from the
animals’ bodies by their ’cage mates’.

We recommend that no more money should be donated by the publicto cancer
research until we have assurances that a considerably higher proportion of their
funds will be spent on cancer education.

Animal Aid is working to press the government and the medical profession to
initiate a massive education programme publicising the importance of a healthy
diet, less dependence on drugs, tobacco and other harmful products and the need
to control environmental pollution.

 

Conquer disease with healthy living, r_1_o_t animal experiments

PLEASE HELP — HERE'S WHAT YOU CAN DO

Join Animal Aid and help us to work for the abolition of these cruel and useless
experiments. .

Send a copy of this leaflet to your local MP and ask for his/her comments on it.
Send a donation to help us print more leaflets. Every £1 you send will pay for the
printing and postage of 100 leaflets.

 

N

[j I wish to become an annual/lite 3/84
member of Animal Aid and enclose E subscription (£4 per
annum; £2 for non-eamers; £6 family membership; £50 life membership.)

I enclose a $2 donation.

Please send copies of this leaﬂet.

(100 leaflets cost us £1 to print and post)

Please send further information about your campaigns. (sae appreciated)

 

Name (Mr. Miss. Mrs. Ms.) __.___
Address

 

 

 

Tel. No. _

K7 Castle Street - Tonbridge - Kent - TN9 18H - Telephone: (0732) 364549

 

 

 

 




l An animallover’s pet project

i’

DALLAS TIMES HERALD - March 15, 1986

Advocate barks
about dog, cat
proh1bitions

By MICHELE WELDON
Staff writer ‘

ABEL PATRICIA Curtis radically

pro-pet The 61-year-old grand-

mother lives in a one-bedroom,
no-pets-allowed apartment in New York
City with four cats and a dog named
Dandy and tours the country telling pet
owners they can break the rules and live
happily ever after.

A spokesman for the Pets Are Won-
derful Council (a non-profit, Chicago-
based public service agency that is, you
got it, PAW for short), Curtis was at the
Loews Anatole Hotel recently on the
last leg of a tour that brought her from
Seattle to San Francisco to Dallas to
push her eighth pet book, “The Urban
Dog.” Not all of her advice, however, is
met with unchained enthusiasm by the
Dallas Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, or, less surprisingly,
an organization representing landlords.

According to PAW statistics, there are
51 million owned cats and 49 million
otvned dogs in this country. Most pet
owners live in urban areas, Curtis says,
and most of those city people live in

multiple-familydwellings, rental build-

ings that may have no-pets clauses in
the lease.

'In Dallas, there are approximately
4,000 apartment buildings with 180,000
individual units, according to Dick Co-
vert, executive vice president of the
Apartment Association of Greater Dal-
las. “About 50 percent of those manag—

ers accept pets,” Covert says.

Curtis, a former pet columnist and

senior editor of Family Circle magazine,
sees anti-pet rules as the punishment of

many for the crimes of the few. “A
building will have 29 people with pets
who are no problem, but the 30th will
have one who barks all day, jumps on
people in the elevator or a cat who
messes in the hallway,” she says.

But Curtis says you can buck the sys-
tem. If you are contemplating moving
into a rental apartment or condominium
with a no-pet clause, Curtis recommends
introducing your landlord to your pet,
offering evidence that your pet has been
neutered and had all its shots. You also
could offer to pay a small security
deposit.

.. ._...4. _ A, .

...L .,-

 

Paul lverson / Dallas Times Herald

Patricia Curtis

Curtis says landlords may be amena-
ble, and that some landlords in no-pet
buildings will allow cats. And if only
one cat is allowed and you would like
more, Curtis suggests buying cats of the
same color. That way, your landlord will
think he has seen the same cat, when he
has seen several.

But Sandra Dickson, executive assis-
tant for the Dallas SPCA, does not ad-
vise duping your landlord. “We refuse
adoption to any potential owner whose
landlord does not allow pets,” Dickson
says. “We don’t encourage anyone to
adopt a pet against the rules of their
residence.

“We want families to keep the pets for
a lifetime. We don’t want them returned

to us.” The Dallas SPCA takes in
10,000 abandoned dogs and cats
each year, while the city of Dallas
takes in more than 40,000 stray an-
imals, Dickson says.

Curtis says if the no-pet clause in
your lease was not initially en-
forced, you have legal recourse. “If
you have been living with a pet for
10 years and have received no
complaints and the landlord says,
‘Get rid of the pet or move,’ you
ought to hire a lawyer,” Curtis

1

i

Q
.3.
.‘

:Statistics show
that city pets . . .
are healthier than
pets on ranches or
in the suburbs,
have fewer diseases
and more contact

with their Owners.’

Patricia Curtis

 

says. “Laws are on. the side of the
landlord, but the courts are on the
side of the pet owners.”

The Animal Legal Defense
Fund, a national organization
based in California, with ofﬁces in
New York, Chicago and Boston,
has been established to help pet
owners with legal problems con-

: cerning their pets.

i

But Covert says no matter who
rallies to your defense, you are still
breaking the law. “On an apart-
ment application, it says, ‘Do you
have a pet?’ If you check ‘no’ and
move in with a pet, in the state of
Texas, it is illegal to obtain real es-
tate with false information. So you
are breaking the law, not just

4 breaking the contract.”

Covert adds, “It is hard for a per-
son to say, ‘I forgot I have a Great
Dane.’ If you sneak one in, you are
in. violation of your lease and sub-

ject to eviction.”

The no-pet leases do not exist
merely because some landlords are

. anti-dog or anti-cat, Covert says.

“A lot of people are allergic to ani-
E mals; it is not just because of main-

; tenance. It is also the owner’s right
5 to restrict leasing as long as it is
,j not discriminating. So far, refusing

to rent on grounds of a pet has not

' been considered discrimination.”

If you live in a building that al-
lows pets or are not evicted from
your no-pet building, Curtis argues,
keeping an animal in the city may
be a favor to the pet. “Most people
think it’s cruel to keep a dog or a
cat indoors in the city,” says Curtis.

- “But the statistics show that city

pets probably haVe better lives, are

 

 




healthier than pets on ranches or
in the suburbs, have fewer diseases
and more contact with their own-
ers. If a pet is roaming a ranch in
Texas, it can only have contact
with the owner at mealtimes.”

Having a pet, Curtis asserts, can
stave off urban angst and keep an
owner in touch with the world. “In
an urban life you may only see pi-
geons and not have a lot of contact
with nature.”

Pets may also be an answer to
the loneliness of singledom, Curtis
says, because “you can meet other
people walking your dog.”

And, she says, pets are good bur-
glar alarms. “A dog will bark. They
are very territorial, very protective
and they will defend you by bit-
ing.” Cats are a different story.
“Cats are not the best in terms of
protection. If somebody intruded
they would retreat; but a cat can
warn you if somebody is sneaking
into your room.”

Even if your cat never meows
you to safety or your dog bites an
intruder, pets are great emotional
security blankets, Curtis says. “We
all need something to hug. And if .
you have a pet there is always ‘
somebody to greet you, they never
give you an argument and they
think everything you do is great.
You get companionship, loyalty,
love, humor and something to
laugh at.” Curtis adds, “Birds are
great but they aren’t as responsive.
Besides, you can’t walk your bir .” \

f/W/A ﬂ/IﬁV/Vi 5,2 9L9;

AnimalRightists
Need a New Cause

I protest the actions of animal rights
groups such as STOP and PETA protest-
ing that animals from the Hillsborough
County Animal Control not be used for
scientific research.

These dogs have either been aban-
doned or never had a home. They have
probably suffered greater abuse in a city
where they are unwanted than they would
in a controlled scientific environment re-
searching cures for illnesses.

Through their use in research, these
dogs might give humans extra years of
life. '

I have always owned dogs and I dearly
love them. But I have three children and
four grandchildren who may benefit from
this experimental research.

I admire STOP and PETA’S dedica-
tion and enthusiasm but there many other
worthwhile causes.

These animal rights groups could open
up their homes to all the dogs facing

death row.

DALLAS TIMES HERALD - March 15, 1986
PETS ’

Bog experiment halted .
by the power of the pen

By ANN WILSON
Special to the Dallas Times Herald

Although little publicized, a new
humane law will afford improved
standards in the care and treat-
ment of guard dogs. Martha Cox,
A-PANT president, urges letters of
gratitude to Ms. Clema Sanders,
who was responsible for the law’s
passage. Such letters will also
serve to strengthen its enforce-
ment. Write Ms. Sanders, Execu-
tive Director of the Texas Board of
Private Invistigators and Private
Security Agencies, 313 E. Ander-
son Lane, Austin, TX 78752. The
power of the pen is emphasized in
the report from Ms; Cox’s Animal
Protection Advisory Network of
Texas that members’ protests were
instrumental in the cancellation of
a grant application for an experi-
ment planned at the University of
Florida wherein 42 dogs were to be
drowned for the purposes of evalu-
ating various methods of
resuscitation.

(/64 77% 5/ 5, Wigé}

45 arrested at dog fight

NATCHITOCHES, La. — Forty-ﬁve people from five
states were arrested for attending a dog-ﬁghting convention
at .a makeshift arena in the woods, Sheriff Norm Fletcher
said Sunday. Some in the audience, who were betting on
pitbull terrier ﬁghts, wore T-shirts that said, “Dog Fighting
— America’s No. 1 Sport,” Fletcher said. “What a way for
people to spend an Easter weekend.”

 




THE BOSTON GLOBE - March 8, 1986

Helping to save the wolves

Ownﬂ‘tminer
Clint Rowe and
wolf hybrid Jed
both won “Friend
of Nature”
awards.

GLOBE STAFF PHOTO BY JOHN BLANDING

By Carol Stocker
Globe Staff

Yesterday Jed received a “Friend of
Nature" award (as did his owner-train-
er, Clint Rowe) from the Boston Muse-
um of Science for promoting one of his
favorite causes - wolf conservation.

Jed is a wolf hybrid — one—quarter
American timber wolf and three-quar-
ters malamute - who “acted" the part
of a wild wolf in the recent Walt Disney
movie, “The Journey of Natty Gann."

In a switch on the usual movie plot.
this wolf befriends the young heroine,
shares his food with her and protects
her from humans who try to harm her.

After centuries of extermination
(“The only good wolf is a dead wolf,"
went one Old West saying) wolves are
now an endangered species in the conti-
nental United States.

The folks at the Museum of Science,
where an excellent exhibit about
wolves runs through May 11, wanted to
reward Jed for offering a more positive
public image of this persecuted animal,
since wolves are still often shot on sight
despite federal protection.

Lofty sentiments aside, however, the
highpoint of yesterday’s 10:30 a.m.
ceremony for the star was the presenta-
tion of a boneless roast turkey prepared
— continental style - by Mario Labadini
of the Charles Restaurant.

Last night the dog’s owner talked to
an'audience of children about wolves
and dogs and how to get them to do
what you want them to do. Jed demon—
strated some of his 80 tricks. or as Clint
Rowe calls them, “behaviors.” .

Part of Jed’s talent may be inherit-
ed. His grandfather was a Hollywood

wolf who appeared in old-time
westerns. His father, who was
three-quarters wolf, and his mala-
mute mother were bred by a Cali—
fornia man who had a thriving
buSiness selling hybrid wolf pups
as exotic pets. .

While some professional ani-
mal trainers own veritable zoos of =
60 or 70 animals, Rowe specializes
in quality rather than quantity.
He lives with Jed and two other
dogs on a 500-acre California
farm. Each day starts with a long
run, followed by an afternoon of
intensive training. and maybe
some Frisbee.

One of Rowe‘s other dogs is
Mike, the comic black and white
border collie from another recent
Disney film. “Down and Out in
Beverly Hills.” Mike has become
an instant celebrity and has ap-
peared on “Saturday Night Live"
and “Good Morning America." He
also, was featured in People maga-
zine.

But most animals are often
treated by movie prop depart-
ments as interchangeable extras.
There have been numerous Lass—
ies, and when the Disney people
thought Rowe' was asking too
much money for another movie
with Mike. they told him they’d

' simply get another dog.

In contrast, Rowe views his
dogs as unique individuals capa-
ble of true stardom. He wants
them to project personality on the
screen in addition to doing tricks.

He is protective of his animals
and won’t let them work if they
are too tired, despite production
pressures. “I tell them [the dogs]
we‘re going to have a good time.

, When it stops being a good time,
5 the animal will die younger. it’s a
l bummer to work with them and
there’s no personality on the

screen. They do have real emo—
tions. You have to protect them.
They're like helpless children."
Unlike laws regarding child ac—
tors, there are no laws to protect

5 animals in movies, Rowe said. But
' reputable trainers will not allow

their animals to be abused. A vi-

I‘cious dog fight scene in "Natty
f Gann” was carefully faked.

Rowe’s worst experience was

'working on a foreign film with

some wild monkeys. When he
found out the animals were sup?
posed to be killed, he threatened to
quit unless the script was

 




changed. “I also wrote the Ameri—
can Humane Society, and that
helped. In the end, your only
weapon is the threat of bad publi-
cit

yRowe frequently works with
animals owned by other trainers,
and with wild animals. He just fin—

ished" capturing and training 40
wild Olive baboons for a horror
movie called, “Shadows of Kili-
manjaro,” shot in Kenya. The ba—
boon's dangerous reputation, like
that of other animals he has
worked with, is overblown, Rowe
said. :

“Every wild creature radiates.
toward what makes them feel'
good: a sunny spot, a full stom—
ach, sleep. They’re not there to kill
and destroy. The most dangerous
animal is man.”

There has never been a docu-
mented wolf attack on a human
being in the United States, said
Wave. except in cases involving

e Jed has inherited a com-

. -. . "2:1: constantly test author-

ity from his malamute forbears,

his strongest wolf characteristic is

his shyness, Rowe said. Jed has a

wild animal’s wariness and dis-
'comfort in unfamiliar places.

“He’s social and wants to feel
secure,” said Rowe as he stroked
against the luxuriant ruff around
Jed’s neck, as they set out in the
busy halls of the museum for a
photography session. “What he
gets from his wolf side is timid—
it

y As a mOther pushed her baby‘s
pram through a narrow door to-
ward them, Jed faced the oncom-
ing infant eye to eye.

“He’s going to be scared of this
stroller,” predicted Rowe, as the
not-so—big—bad—wolf ducked be-
hind his master’s legs to safety.

NATIONAL ENQUIRER — April 8, 1986

By JOHN~BR ucs SHOEMAKER

Astonishing new research-shows that animals can

actually lie!

Not only gorillas, chimpanzees, dogs and foxes but also birds
and even insects purposely mislead others when it’s to their ad-

 

vantage to do so, say ex-

perts. . . I I II T th'
artisans: as tst e ru .

University researcher Rob
ert Mitchell:

0A chimpanzee indicated Anima|s Tell lies

 

to other chimps that there

 

 

was a bunch of bananas nearby -—
and when those other chimps
headed off on a “wild banana
chase,” the lying chimp scurried to
where it knew the bananas really
were.

0 A dog that had broken its leg re-

‘ ceived extra attention from its mas-

ter, which stepped when the leg had
healed.

“So then the dog began to fake a
leg injury and even went so far as to
limp pitifully around on three legs,”
said Mitchell, who reported his find-
ings in the book “Deception: Per-
spectives on Human and Nonhuman
Deceit.”

“The result was the dog got more
attention.”

CA female gorilla in a zoo preo
tended to have her arm caught be
tween the bars of her cage. When
the zookeeper rushed into the cage

to help her, she freed her arm”: :11:"";'

grabbed the zookeeper in :2 "
gorilla just wanted com:

and faked the predicamc.

like a child who fakes an i... to
gain attention.

0 Shrimp are very vulnerable to
predators during their molting
Siaslon, when they lose their outer
s e .

ing. When the males rush to her, she
eats them.

“Evidence shows that some ani-
mals lie just like humans,” declared
Mitchell, who spent 51/2 years study-
ing the deceitful behavior of ani-
mals.

“Previous researchers thought
animals weren’t intelligent enough
to have the ability to plan actions,
which is required for lying.

“But to my amazement, I learned
that in some animal species decep-
tion may be more common than
truth-telling.”

Dr. Emil Menzel, professor of psy-
chobiology at the State University of
New York, agreed:

“Scientific research is showing
that some animals are capable of
thinking — and animals that can
think can lie.”

 

 

 

 

So when faced with an enemy, the
helpless shrimp “bluffs” by racing
toward the foe and acting as if it’s
ready for battle. Actually, it can’t
fight -- but the bluff may force the
foe to back off.

0 Mother foxes compete with
their cubs for food. And scientists
observed that when one mother fox
spotted food, she barked a fake
warning signal to frighten her cubs
away so she could get first crack at

 

the meal.

OFemale stilts, the long-legged.g
marsh birds, will pretend to be in-

‘jured to lure predators away from

stilt nests.

Just as a foe is about to catch an
“injured" bird, she’ll fly away —
with the foe now a safe distance
from the nest.

O A female firefly, which eats
male fireﬂies, flashes a light pattern
that tells males she’s ready for mat-

 




 

 

DALLAS TIMES HERALD

City goes
w11d oVer
pet plg
Residents squeal
in Bubba hubbub

By TOM CURTIS

Houston Bureau

CORPUS CHRISTI — About 10 years

ago, when Bubba was just a piglet, Patsy
Thorne wrapped the little javelina in a
blanket, covering everything but his long
snout. Then, cradling him in her arms, she
carried him into Tipps Restaurant.
‘ From a neighboring table, a customer
cast an appraising glance at her snuffling
bundle. Then she turned to a companion
and hissed “I do believe that’s the ugliest
baby I’ve ever seen.

Picking up on the whispered conversa—
tion, Patsy Thorne chimed back in a
cheerful twang, “He sure is -- he takes
after his daddy.” She didn't bother to add
that Bubba was really an orphaned col-
lared peccary, the only wild pig native to
North America. He had been found by her
husband, Buddy Thorne, a power compa-
ny surveyer, during a rattlesnake hunt. He
weighed 1% pounds when found and was
flea- and tick-infested.

Until early this year, the Thornes and
their daughters continued to treat Bubba,
who was neutered at. age six weeks. as a
pampered member of their family. They
ted him breakfasts of scrambled eggs and
suppers of cooked vegetables. chicken and

Richaid Carson/Special to the Dallas limes Herald

4 even steak, plus between-meal treats in--

cluding bananas, ice cream, malted milk

‘ balls and beers. In three years, Bubba bal~

looned to 90 pounds, almost twice the heft
of a javelina in the wild.

The Thornes’ daughters bathed Bubba
and brushed his teeth and his formidable
downward-curving tusks. They let him

climb into their beds until he got. so big he .

had to be moved to an electrically heated
backyard shed. Patsy Thorne taught him
to stand on his hind legs and prop his fore—
limbs on their shoulders to kiss her cheek.

“Bubba has a heart bigger than you or
me,” she says. “The older he got, the more
affectionate he got."

Then on Jan. 3, after a young woman
new in the neighborhood and concerned
about the safety of her year-old son Corri—
plained to the city‘s animal control (llVl

March 23, 1986

 

 

 

1 sion, game wardens from the Texas Parks '

and Wildlife Department showed up on

‘- the Thornes’ doorstep. -

They cited the Thornes for illegally ha1-
boring a- wild game animal.iAnd, despite
the Thornes’ pleas for more time to fmd ‘
' Bubba a suitable home, the wardens in~

vaded Bubba’s fenced backyard sanctuary,
summarily shot the pig full. of tranquiliz-

ers, hauledhim away from his stolid com: _

panion (a sheep),rand plopped the dazed

javelina in a car trunk. Finally they spirit-

ed him away to a stilLundiselosed brush-
;-ount.ry location, where they say they re
leased him

Distraught at the loss ol their pet. -’-1ts\"
and I’uddy Thorne griev ved and Iietted
like the parents of a kidnap Victim. Patsy
Thorne says she has lost 23 pounds simre
early January: it's just not much fun to

Bubba in happier times, above, snoozes with his stuffed animal
. on alfamily bed. At left, Buddy Thorne stands near a sign demon-
strating the celebrity status he and his family have gained.~ '

cook without having Bubba to Cook for
she explains.

Buddy Thorne says 811be s seizure has
upset him more than anything except the
1965 accident when he broke his neck in
rodeo and doctors mistakenly told him
he’d be paralyzed from the neck down for
life. It’s even worse he says. than when
his left kidney was blewn out on Pork

‘ Chop Hill in Kerea 1n 1953. or the time the

rodeo horse he was riding bareback kicked
him in the stomach, rupturing his liver. '
In his distress and anger, Thoriie called
Bill Walraven. a col1j1mnist for the Corpus
Christi Caller. who wrote about the inci—
tlent. The day the first column appeared.
the newspaper's switchboard lit up like a
cliani‘lelier with calls of outrage from

See BOA R on Page 38.\

 




Boar-ocrats battling with bureaucrats

BOAR -— From Page 35A

Bubba-backers.

The people wanted him taken
back home.

Since then, Bubba has become a
media superstar. The campaign to
free him has been fought on many
fronts:

I Forty protesters marched on
City Hall —— home of the animal
control division that told state
game wardens about Bubba. They
toted signs reading “Javelinas need
love too,” and “Help us find
Bubba.”

I More than 10,000 “Bring
Bubba Back” and “Where Is
Bubba?” bumper stickers have
been printed, and many quickly
blossomed on autos throughout the
city and state. About 450 T-shirts
imprinted with Bubba’s name and
photo have been sold.

IAn enterprising local seam
stress started making cloth-stuffed
“Bubbas” and peddled them like
“Cabbage Patch” dolls at local flea
markets.

Iln an editorial, the Corpus
Christi Caller urged Texas Parks
and Wildlife Department ofﬁcials
to return Bubba to the Thornes, ar-
guing that “a javelina raised on
malted milk balls and ice cream is
ill-equipped to survive in the
wild.”

There also was a two-day trial on
the charge against the Thornes.
The courtroom was ﬁlled with 150
Bubba partisans. Justice of the
Peace Ben Garza Jr. dismissed
state charges against the Thornes,
reasoning that the neutered javeli—
na was domesticated and “there
were no wild instances in his
behavior.”

Events got hotter on the legal
front.

The Thornes sued the Parks and
Wildlife Department in state court
for unspeciﬁed damages, asserting
that it undertook an illegal search
and seizure and was guilty of crue1~
ty to animals.

State District Judge Walter Dun-
ham Jr., ruling that the Thornes
had a “qualiﬁed property interest”
in Bubba, on Feb. 27 ordered the
Parks and Wildlife Department to
reveal the exact location where
Bubba had been released. But
Dunham declined to issue an in-
junction sought by the Thornes’
lawyer forcing the department to
return Bubba.

Then, Assistant Attorney Gener-
al Reed Lockhoof promptly ap-
pealed Dunham’s order, perpetuat—
ing the “Where is Bubba?”
controversey at least through May.

Meanwhile, animal protection-

" ists, angry at what they consider

the callousness of the Parks and
Wildlife Department, continue to
circulate 4,000 petitions addressed
to Gov. Mark White. With space for
100 signatures each, the petitions
express “our rage at the cruel and
inhumane treatment of the pet ja-
velina Bubba” and demand that
the parks and wildlife employees

 

responsible be ﬁred.

One of those employees, district
supervisor Frank Kelso, says he‘s
been made miserable since the
incident.

“I’ve been compared to Ayatol-
lah Khomeini, Khadafy and Dr.
Mengele, who killed all those
Jews” in letters to the newspaper
editor, he says. Other letter writers
have suggested that the depart»
ment is stonewalling about the
pig’s whereabouts because its em-
ployes had a “Bubba-cue."

”There’s no doubt in my mind ‘

that the animal is surviving and
doing fine,” Kelso says. “But I
can’t produce him,” despite repeat-
ed searches.

White, in a letter to one Bubba
backer, said state employees acted
properly but he called it “regretta-
ble” that the javelina was not
moved temporarily to an animal
shelter until a solution could be
found to the problem.

Although the Thornes hold out
hope that Bubba is still alive, some
experts are dubious.

“It’s doubtful that he could sur-

vive," says James Teer, director of '

the Welder Wildlife Refuge. “Most
animals that are pen-raised are
simply not given the training” on
how to eat prickly pear cactus and
weeds that constitute javelinas’
normal diet. “He would have difﬁ-
culty just like you would if they
dumped you out there” on scrubby
rangeland, Teer added.

There have been numerous
Bubba look-alike sightings across
South Texas, but none has been
conﬁrmed. One sighting involved a
dead peccary the Thornes misiden-

 

 

tiﬁed as Bubba until an autopsy

showed it hadn’t been neutered.

The 23-year-old neighbor who
ﬁngered Bubba to local authorities
sa '3 she wishes she could turn
y She had Just

went int
ted Bubba across a
me to death."

“I called animal centre

1 and they

I told me if there were kids back

there and they provoked it, it couid
break right through the fences,"
the woman says. At the time, she
was baby sitting three children
plus her child, “and I was afraid
for my kids," adds the woman.
who asked that she not be identi—
ﬁed. After she heard that Bubba
was tame, she says. “I called the
prosecutor . . . and did what I could
to get it given back."

 

 




ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH - March 25, 1986

Endangered Wolves
May Be Released
Into The Wilderness

By Karen Freeman
Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

HE RED WOLF confronted human hatred and a

changing habitat and lost the battle for survival,
usually an irreversible verdict. But humans are tipping
the scalethe other way. '

The last red wolves — 40 scraggly, mange-ridden
beasts —— were snatched from the wild in the 1970s, just
before they would have been wiped out. The roundup
would have been a sad affair if the isolated survivors had
been shipped off to zoos as living relics, but the US. Fish
and Wildlife Service had a more ambitious plan.

Some red wolves were put on display at zoos, but most
went into a breeding program in Tacoma, Wash., and
later at the Wolf Sanctuary in St. Louis County. They and
their offspring were kept as wild as possible so they could
someday be freed.

That day of freedom may be near for a few of the red
wolves. If plans are approved, red wolves will soon roam
the 120,000-acre Alligator River Wildlife Refuge, a
peninsula on the coast of North Carolina. Some of the
wolves probably will come from the Wolf Sanctuary and
some will come from Tacoma. The fate of the red wolves
left behind depends on the pioneers turned loose in North
Carolina. If the wolves adapt well, more red wolves are
likely to be freed at other refuges.

“If we pull this off, it’s going to be a first,” said the man
who captured the last of the wolves, Curtis J. Carley of
the Fish and Wildlife Service. No other animal has ever
been saved from extinction, then re-introduced into the
wild.

Flame and Brindled Hope are the Wolf Sanctuary’s
best candidates for freedom. They’ll have a lot to learn.
They were born behind chain-link fences and have lived
within those bounds for five years.

Red wolves at the Wolf sanctuary in St. Louis County.

Director Bill Malloy took a visitor recently to look at
the red wolves at the Wolf Sanctuary. The sanctuary
leases 50 acres within Washington University’s Tyson
Research Center, a former ammunition depot off
Interstate 44 in far western St. Louis County.

At the sanctuary, sociable gray wolves wagged their
tails and trotted to the front of their pen to greet Malloy
when they saw him approach. With ears flattened and
mouths stretched into happy grimaces, they could have
been dogs welcoming their master home.

The next pen contained red wolves, Lewis and Clark.
The red wolves are smaller cousins — 40 to 70 pounds —-
of the grays. The name red wolf conjures up an image of
a wolf with a pelt as dazzling as a red fox, but their actual
color is far more somber. It ranges from reddish-brown
to nearly black tones.

The red wolves differ in temperament from the gray
wolves as well, as was evident when Malloy approached
Lewis and Clark. Lewis and Clark were raised by keepers
at the Children’s Zoo. Even though they were nurtured by
human hands, they offered Malloy no greeting. Their
floating trot carried them to the farthest corner of the
pen, where they paced nervously with lowered heads.
The red wolves’ timidity has softened little in human
hands.

“These are wild animals,” Malloy explained. “They’re

-- u. timid than the greys-II, .. ...,

L.T. Spence/Post-Dispatc

 

 

":1

h

 

 




Illuv.- --.

He made his point again a few minutes later, when he
strolled quietly toward a hillside enclosure that held
seven more red wolves, including Flame and Brindled
Hope.

The red wolves were cloaked in an acre of shadows as
the visitors strained to glimpse them.

A flash of movement caught the eye as a wolf broke
cover, a blur of cinnamon fur as it darted into the brush
and melted away. Carley’s words came to mind: “They
can hide behind a blade of grass.”

After several minutes, one wolf moved through the
woods closer to the visitors, conceding the denser cover
farther away to the rest. 0

“That one’s been rejected by the others. I think she
might have gotten too friendly with the dominant male

he dominant female didn't like it,” Malloy said.
“The ostracized wolf may be Brindled Hope or Flame,
but Malloy is unable to tell for certain. That kind of
information is tough to get because the sanctuary leaves
, the red wolves — except for Lewis and Clark —— alone as
' ible.
rm.iflil1 tisepigﬁves, gray and red, heard the approach of a
truck carrying their weekly treat, chicken necks. The
grays yipped and howled in excitement, and the reds d
added their voices to the sirenlike din bouncing aroun

. B t the reds stayed under cover - the feast
the valley u ad before they would venture out.

ut one of the wolves on the hillside saw first light
in tgpltivity. People have fed thern, sheltered them sand
kept them healthy throughout their lives. But the re

shun their bene ac ors.
wo'l‘hfesungrateful spirit that has kept the wolves wild will
arm them for survival after they disappear into North
Carolina’s vast marshes. If wolves could think about that
sort of thing, they might consider any show of gratitude

premature. Human benevolence has kept red wolves
alive, but the score is far from even. Human fear and
hatred of wolves — of whatever color -— drove the less
troublesome red wolves from their ancestral homes.

“The worst thing about this animal is its name —— wolf,”
explained Carley. The red wolf probably never caused
the kind of livestock losses that could be laid at the door
of the holder gray wolf, but livestock owners set out a
century ago to destroy all wolves.

In 1890, bounties on coyotes were running :2 a head,
but each wolf brought $20, a “small fortune," Carley said.
“Everybody and his brother went looking for wolves to
collect the bounty.” Wolves were slow to get wise to the
hunters and trappers, while the coyote managed to stay a
jump ahead. .

The red wolves ranged from the Southern coastline to
eastern Texas and as far north as central Missouri and
Southern Illinois. At its western edge, the red wolves’
range touched that of the smaller coyote.

Coyotes started out as Plains animals, but they were
clever and adaptable and moved eastward to invade the
range of the red wolves as more and more land was
cleared. The newly cleared fields were better suited to
coyotes than wolves, who prefer deep cover.

Wolves and coyotes are usually incompatible, but the

red wolves’ ranks were thinned so
badly by bounty hunters that they
were hard-pressed to find suitable
mates duringthe annual breeding
season, January and February. Coy-
otes were close at hand, “and the coy-
ote is an amorous fellow,” Malloy
said.

When coyotes and red wolves start-
ed interbreeding, “the handwriting
was on the wall for the red wolf,”
Carley said. The hybrids’ range got
larger as the red wolves’ got smaller.

Purebred red wolves made their
last stand in the marshes of the Gulf

Coast of Texas and Louisiana. Carley
took a crew to the area in 1975.
“Much to my chagrin, we were catch-
ing a lot of hybrids and coyotes. We
got there just as the last wolves were
being bred out of existence,” he said.

Carley had hoped to stop the ad-
vance of the hybrids and to keep the
red wolves in the wild. “But we
couldn’t fight it. The only way to save
them was to capture the last ones'
remaining.”

The red wolves were declared ex-
tinct in the wild in July 1980. “There
might have been few left, but their
offspring would have been hybrids.
They were biologically extinct.”

Next came the task of weeding out
the hybrids from the true red wolves.
Animals that looked purebred could
be hybrids; the only way to tell was to
breeigd them and to see if they bred

. true); If pups looked like hybrids, both

paremts were suspect. .To find out
which one was a hybrid -— or if both
were} hybrids —— each one had to be
paired with other mates, and those
offsp ring checked.

“Once we had one pair certified,
we had a starting point,” Carley said.
“But‘ the task was excruciatingly
tedio us.”

Th e work paid off; the captive
breeding program has 65 certified
red v volves. Five of those were born

“If we can ever get
this animal in the wild,
the people in the area
are going to become
quite protective of
them. . . .”

in the wild. Those would make good
candidates for freedom, but they’re
too old for the experiment, said War-

’ ren Parker, the Fish and Wildlife of-

ficial who is in charge of the release.
Parker plans to start this fall by
shipping six red wolves by plane to

-. Alligator River. They will live in pens .
for six months to get used to the area,

and their diet will be switched gradu-
ally from dog food to small mammals
killed in the wildlife refuge. A few
weeks before release, the wolves will
be fed live prey so they can learn
how to catch their meals.

In April or May next year, the gate
will be opened and the first pair of
red wolves will walk out of their pen
and head for the marshes, Parker
said. The second pair will follow two
weeks later, and the third pair two
weeks after that. In 1988, two more
pairs of red wolves will be freed.

Then the wolves will be on their
own, Parker said. If they make it, the
Fish and Wildlife Service will look for
two more release sites for red wolves.
Even though the red wolf once
roamed Missouri, this state is out of
the running for wild red wolves be-

cause no Missouri refuge is big

enough.

The wolves will be on their
but the Fish and Wildlife Serviceoxitii
keep close track of them. The freed
wolveswill wear collars with radio
transmitters and tranquilizer darts to

enable rangers to trace their paths. If
a wolf wanders away from the refuge
and onto private land, a tranquilizer
dart in its collar can be triggered by
remote control. After the tranquilizer
takes hold, rangers can retrieve the
slumbering wolf. Each collar carries
two tranquilizer darts in case one
should fail.

Alligator River is ideal for the red
wolves, Parker said. The area is free
of coyotes and full of small game, and
livestock is sparse.

The wolves probably will feed on
marsh rabbits, said Alan Schriver, as-
sistant manager of the refuge. Few
people will be around to disturb
them. “The land’s kind'of like a bog
or a' swamp. You need four-wheel
drive to get around,” Schriver said.

They will have to put up with some
disturbances. Air Force and Navy pi-
lots use a small part of the land for
bombing practice. “It’s not as bad as
it sounds,” Malloy said with a laugh.
“They don’t drop real bombs — just
smoke bombs.”

“The biggest disturbance is the
noise from the jets,” said Schriver.
“But animals get used to it. The deer
don’t even look up when the jets fly
over.”

At first, Fish and Wildlife wanted to
put the red wolves on a refuge in
Tennessee. But a lot of farmers live
in that area, and they were skittish
about the idea of another predator in
the region. North Carolina has wel-
comed the red wolves with more en-
thusiasm. The agency has held four
public hearings in North Carolina,
and the response has been “very fa-
vorable,” Parker said.

Carley predicted that the red
wolves would live in harmony with
their neighbors. “If we can ever get
this animal in the wild, the people in
the area are going to become quite
protective of them — they’ll be proud
to have them in the neighborhood.”

 




 

 

OAKLAND, CA TRIBUNE - March 27, 1986

 

bats are on the endangered-spe-
cies list, bats are subject to erad-
ication programs by people who
consider them a health threat,
acts of vandalism and random
killing by frightened people. .. :.

Myths have grown around
bats in the United States because
peOple rarely see the small spe-
Cies native to this country and
because the animals lurk in dark
places that people fear, such *as
caves and attics, he said.

“The problem of bats carrying
rabies and parasites is also
greatly exaggerated,” Tuttl‘e
said in an interview. “Bats have
much less of a rabies problem
,than foxes and raccoons, and
parasites are no worse than with
dogs or cats.” ‘

More than 1,000 kinds of bats
have been identified worldwide.

The animals vary greatly in
color and description, and range
in size from the giant flying fox
bat, with wingspans of up to six
feet, to the bumblebee bat of
Thailand, which spans onlya
couple of inches and weighs less
than a penny.

 

The Buttikofer’s bat, a type of flying fox bat, has a face that looks like that of a dog.

Man killing offhis friend the bat

By Warren E. Leary
The Associated Pm:

WASHINGTON —— Bats, those mysterious
creatures that ride the night winds and chill
the ethers with their piercing screams, engen-
der revulsion in many humans. But the killing
of individual bats or routine slaughter of mil-
lions of them, often seen as justifiable acts of
self—defense, ultimately may hurt mankind,
according to a man devoted to preserving the
world’s only flying mammals.

Merlin D. Tuttle, a zoologist dedicating a
career to enlightening the dark fears that sur-
round bats, said Tuesday the creatures bear
little resemblance to their public image as the
personification of evil or harm.

On the whole, Tuttle said, bats are clean,

valuable, harmless and misunderstood ser-
vants of mankind who do incalculable good
around the world.

“PeOple are out there killing them off, mil-
lions at a time, for no other reason than that
they don’t understand them,” said Tuttle, a
visiting scholar at the University of Texas at
Austin and founder of Bat Conservation Inter-
national. '

Populations of flying fox bats, which have

. faces that look like dogs, have been reduced by
90 percent in parts of Australia, Southeast
Asia and the Pacific islands, he said, because
they are hunted as food or as pests.

In the United States, where five types of

See BA TS, Page D-3

 




 

.. all]: Atlanta ﬂuumal Friday, April 4, 1986 “m,

91....

  
  

 

 

he Associated Press

 

Dog bitten by owner , 9;.

BRISTOL, England — Bandaged Jade recovers at a veterinary clinic
after the dog's owner bit her left ear and threw her out of the
house. Stuart Smale, 19, of Bristol. told a. magistrates court Thurs-
day that he bit Jade after the dog misbehaved. The court barred
Smale from keeping a dog for the next year and ordered him to pay
$33 in veterinary costs. ‘

t....;.__.._-..

 

ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH - March 25, 1986

County Officials Hope To Lure
Dog Museum Of America Here

By Margaret Gillorman
Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

St. Louis County has joined a na-
tionwide competition to become the
new home of the Dog Museum of
America, an institution dedicated ex-
clusively to “paying homage to man’s
-- and woman’s -- best friend."

The museum, with 2,000 members
nationwide, is now situated in a suite
of offices on Madison Avenue in Man-
hattan. Museum officials are consid-
ering a move to St. Louis, Los Angeles
or Denver. _ ;

‘

._......___—

In its bid to woo the museum, Den-
ver has enlisted thousands of school-
children in a letter-writing campaign.
Los Angeles has offered to do any—
thing it could to make its city attrac-
tive, a museum official said.

And here at home, the news of a
move has inspired the local “dog
world” and St. Louis County officials
to evaluate the potential of establish-
ing a new county park that could be a
home to the museum.

The plan for a county Dog Park

 

a

would include the museum, an am-
phitheatre for shows, an arena, obe-
dience training grounds, a kennel and‘
a modern campground.

County officials say a park dedicat-
ed to canine interests not only would
provide an ideal setting for the muse-
um but also would address the needs
_of thousands of area pet owners. One
official said the park would be “a
safe, clean place where mom and dad
and the kids can bring their pet dog.”

Wayne Kennedy, county parks di-
rector, said, “In all 70 county parks,
we have signs saying dogs must be on
leash. This is a park where you could
take your dog and let it go, and no
one’s going to be mad at you.”

,Kennedy said that for St. Louis to
Win the competition, “this has to be a
community effort.” So far, he said,
the response of people here interest-
ed in dogs had been “absolutely tre-

 

mendous." He said also that County
Executive Gene McNary had a strong
interest and had been “at the fore-
front of this.”

Under the plan, about 100 acres of
parkland would be bought and devel-
oped through private financing. The
Dog Museum of America would raise
money for the museum building and
the collection -Officials estimate that
the project would cost $2 million to $3
million.

The museum was started by a foun-
dation set up by the American Kennel
Club. It collects art, literature and ar-
tifacts on dogs in history and offers
permanent and traveling exhibits, a
library and publications.

Dorothy Welsh, museum president,
said the plan was to expand the muse-
um so it could comfortably accommo-
date a finearts museum, a Dog Hall

, of Fame, a library and study areas.

Welsh said the museum’s board
would make a decision on the move
by September. It is looking for “a
place that is centrally located in a
city. We want to be in a city that has
good transportation and is not as ex-
pensive as New York.”

She said one reason St. Louis was
appealing was that officials here had
a “very exciting concept” in the ca-
nine park.

Officials from the museum and the
county first met in May. In August,
several board members traveled to
St. Louis for a. private unveiling of the
rendering of Dog Park.

Two weeks ago, county officials as-
sembled a group of trainers, breed-
ers, veterinarians and other dog lov-
ers to show them the plans.

The wooing of the museum contin-
ued Monday, when the county held a
reception at Laumeier Park for mu-
seum officials. McNary also met for
several hours with board members.

 




THE HOUSTON POST - March 17, 1986

real problem with

Identifying the

 

Dear Readers:

Du' th t ‘ ~ , ~
withers. or, Robert 0,.

been television doc-
umentaries, news-

dio commentaries , _. 7

and numerous other ,i
media reports con- ' '

cerning the threats

to society by the pit

bulldog. Lawmakers and other of-
ficials at various government lev-
els have voiced opinions on how to
control this “killer” dog. Some
have proposed laws prohibiting
ownership of pit bulldogs while
others suggest that owners of pit
bulls have special liability insur-
ance policies in the event of an at-
tack.

I hear from both sides of the is-
sue -— from those who are con-
vinced that all pit bulldogs should
be exterminated immediately and
from others who believe the breed
has a justifiable place in society as
a companion animal.

My only intent in this column is
to discuss a few facts so that read-
ers can filter through the emotion-
al jargon.

Many thanks to the American
Humane Association and, specifi-
cally, Phillip E. Steward for sup-
plying some of the data presented.
Rarely do I discuss pit bulldogs
with anyone who seems to know
exactly what a pit bull is. Boxers,
English bulldogs, Great Danes,
bull terriers, Staffordshire bull ter-
riers, pugs and mastiffs all seem
to be thought of by some as pit
bulls, especially when these
breeds are crossbred with another.

The American pit bull terrier is
a breed that has evolved over the
past 200 years and is believed to be
descended from a cross of the mas-
tiff and a terrier. Some believe the
dog resulted from some very cre-
ative breeding of the Staffordshire
terrier and the bull terrier.

Confusion about the origin of the
American pit bull terrier often
leads people to believing that all
bulldog-like animals are pit bulls.

To add to that confusion, the
American pit bull terrier averages
17-19 inches tall at the shoulder,
weighs from 4070 pounds and is
registered as such by the Ameri-
can Dog Breeders Association and
the United Kennel Club. Almost
the same dog, the American Staf-
fordshire terrier, is registered by
the American Kennel Club.

My point is how does a society
go about exterminating or banning
a breed when there is so much con-
fusion concerning the identity of
the breed? As I have often men-

“Shannon

Smut-1s}
' "'-;»‘1?"‘g,

. PET set

. .
“W‘s. ‘i, .» ~'

tioned in this column, the dog is
not the problem. Owners of these
fighting dogs are the problem.

For generations, people have
bred these animals for only one
purpose: to produce a heavily ,
muscled, finely tuned fighting ma—
chine. Breeders of fighting dogs

have manipulated and interfered l

with natural breeding processes to
produce a dog that has such
strength, stamina and aggressive-
ness that it is ciassified by some
anti-dogfighting experts as a high-
ly unpredictable explosive device.

The pit bull, unlike most other
breeds, tends to persist in the at-
tack, crushing and fighting until
its victim is dead. Usually the pit
bull bites and locks its jaws until
forced with a breaking stick to let
go.
Experts have reported that the

pit bull bites with a closing force of g.

1,800 pounds per square inch, dou-
ble that of a doberman or German

shepherd. The pit bull is a dog that

cannot be ignored nor is it a dog
for the weak or lazy. So why are .

more than 60,000 American pit bull y , ”:35; g

terriers registered in the United

States, and why is this number
growing at a rate of about 30 per-
cent annually? Experts believe
this trend is due to the apparent
ability of the breed to satisfy some
macho or power image for the
owner.

_ Please don’t misunderstand.
There are some responsible legiti-
mate breeders of the American pit
bull terrier, and I have had the .
pleasure of knowing a few. Their
dogs are well behaved and are ex-
cellent companions; however, one
must never forget that these dogs
still have the fighting instinct and
they will fight if the circumstances
arise.

pit
bulls

 

Post illustration by Dick Westbrook

Pit. bulls are often confused with boxers, English bulldogs,
Great. Danes, bull terriers, Staffordshire bull terriers, pugs
and mastiffs, especially when these breeds are crossbred

. with another.

 

 




YOU NC

1.

 

 

 

 

- PATIENTS

 

 

THE BOSTON GLOBE - March 20, 1986

 

   
 

 

 

Dr. Elizabeth Morris of Tufts Veterinary School in Grafton checks on a foal, born five weeks prema-

ture, and a baby lamb. The foal weighed only about 40 pounds at birth. about 60 pounds below normal,

and the lamb is being fed at the school because its mother is ill. Both were placed on a heated wa-

terbed in the neonatal intensive care unit and are doing well.

es “ 8 -

“Ir-s . s m
:Q8:$é,55§mh‘§é
$3 wwww>mod°g
e Bessgmhcm o
:EGu-g owns: c:
nag-cw!!! acct-4,310:
w :5“ “no
vesusspggeao~
Shae?23=eesa%
“5">“’?='838:'§mm8,
mus: .nog..:.££,,;a. E
°"’m“’«'—1 550 Cu:
when w ... H0
Baggage: h0g5
“mac“ .20.53ﬂm.~w
% gnaw mgngo
215““ -°ao":v-4<v“" 3..
“cf-3'0““0- “N" “5°
3°”.wmg86 Swarm?
8g we)“ ognégmo
< 30 Go 5G3

rime pri-

ter, and my hat is off to them for
doing as well as they do; but until
the so—called “sport” of dog fight-

ing moves up the ' t of c

AP PHOTO

HOUSTON CHRONICLE - March 25, 1986

 

 

gate re-
, when

authority except to investi
ported animal abuse and

. 'U , i .
. >.

5 83 I $ 55:“QIEQH5 E
0 3° box 3 cases .9bo5‘“>.nm
~.. raga: set abaegéwéﬁﬂ

a) m . :4 co 3.....0)>' G)
3.5 km, o > go o .52“ 8 3m 3‘30
:: ooa'ESQ'a the 43:98th a“ «5‘:
3.5 mCOoO> 5"“ “’*"cri‘D‘o‘é—fﬂ'csq’cJ ‘1’
:m omeS: 39.55ﬁ3“h°”85w>
o o. 'F" U -:
gg 5&53gg as; s$§;§§§§§€€3
. L. at $45M 4" 0090;”
«5:: aka). ~11 nor—1e o. «M30158» mo
0: pgﬁoﬁc awe AHETEwaS 0“
seggggSQQ DE?.3§§3“§$SQ.3§
we w as? 81F= 2 ns~”“w
§2aaas~gw a2555°§§933>3523
“OS'H'HQ’O on (33033. m°0°w“ﬁ3::1
m '35 ““3: we..-“ 0%.... =3 3: com
gﬁﬁgsiggg Egygggggggggggﬂg
o "-4 o .F‘ D "d H m HM
a, no G) E > ‘30" Vi
5§= 5§§5u sﬁﬁe 2§5§863§§§§

l

necessary, coordinate with local

law enforcement agencies.

So when you hear the words “ it
bull,” please don’t panic. Instead

“Texas City girl stunned

by attack of

By CINDY HORSWELL
Houston Chronicle

 

TEXAS CITY — A 6-year-old
Texas City girl whose face was
mauled by a dog that attacked her
as she got off a church bus said she
does not understand why that
“pretty dog wanted to hurt me.”

“It was like I was having a
dream, and it wasn‘t really happen-I
ing,” Chrisy Meyer said.

The dog’s owner, emergency
room nurse Sharon Richards said
the attack was unexplainable.

“I wish we could ask the
dog,‘Why?’ Nobody knows what
triggered it,” she said. “It’s really a
shock. Bear was always such a
friendly dog.”

The 2%-year-old family pet, a
German she herd-collie cross, is
spending 10 a s in quarantine and
then will be ki led at Richards’ re-
quest. .

“Some suggested we give the dog
a second chance since it never hap-

consider all the facts and how the

situation can be controlled. Re-
problem and only humankind can

member, humankind created the
correct it.

’pretty dog’

pened before.,0r find Bear another
home,” Richards said Monday.
“But, I just can’t risk letting my dog
do something'like this ever again. I
have two children of my own.”

The attack occurred Sunday as
Chrisy was accompanying her fa-
ther as he drove a church bus, col-
lecting Sunday school children at
the Baptist Bible Church in Texas
City.

At the first st0p, about 8:30 am,
Chrisy ran to the Richards’ front
porch at 620-12th Ave. North to pick
up a teen-a e, girl attending a slum-
ber party t ere.

The brown and white dog ran out
from under the house and attacked
her, biting her face.

Her father, Frank Meyer, 34, a
truck driver, heard his daughter
scream and pulled the dog off.

Richards, a family friend who
also attends Bible Baptist Church,
dressed the wounds before helping
rush the child to Mainland Center
Hospital Emergency room.




LOS ANGELES TIMES MAGAZINE Section - March 23, 1986

Companion Dog Excellent

BY VICKI HEARNE

I hear a lot of people talk
about how they don’t
want “all that show dog,
robot training” for their
dogs. Some people say this
because they make good
money saying it on TV.
Other people say it be-
cause they can’t train dogs.
And other people say it be-
cause they’ve heard some-
one say it on TV.

And some people say it
when they meet Deborah
Ryan and Major. They say,
“That’s a nice dog—not
like those robot-trained
show dogs, but a natural
dog.”

This is about as bizarre as
the world ever gets, be-
cause Major, age 5, placed
fourth in the 1985 national
superdog trials last Decem-
ber at the Long Beach Con-
vention Center. This is a
competition to determine
which are the best of the
nation’s best robot-trained,
automaton show dogs. And
Ryan, a checker at the Al-
pha Beta near her home in
a small town east of Los
Angeles, is one of the na-
tion’s top amateur handlers
of doggie automatons.

Major usually goes sim-
ply by the name Major, but
he is entitled on formal oc-
casions to use the name
OTCH, Ryan’s Major Gold-
en Glow, CD, CDX, UD.

Written out, that’s: Obedi-
ence Trial Champion,
Ryan’s Major Golden Glow,
Companion Dog, Compan-
ion Dog Excellent,,Utility
Dog. However, that s quite

a mouthful when you’re
laughing at Major, or with
him, so when Ryan walks in
the door and is greeted by
an eager dog who is either
carrying something in his
mouth (he takes greetings
seriously) or showing his
unique grin—which he us-
es when he can’t find any-
thing to grab and carry to
the door—she just says,
“Howdy, Major. How’s
tricks?”

No automaton d

Sometimes she used to
say, “Major! The mailman’s
here!” Ryan used to have a
mail carrier who knew Ma-
jor, and Major was always
sent to bring in the mail.
There’s a new mailman
now, and Ryan doesn’t
know yet if he’s nervous
about dogs, so Major is
learning to open the mail-
box by himself.

I of course wanted to
know if we were dealing
here with a real Compan-
ion Dog, not one of those

. phony show dogs, so I said,

“Well, that’s pretty good
about the mail, but what
about slippers and the
newspaper?” Ryan said,

Continued

09 show this: Major retrieves at an
Orange Empire Dog Club show put on for children.

 

annual

George Rose

 

“Newspapers? Sure. The only prob-
lem is that when we go out for walks
and he sees someone else’s newspa-
per, he wants to fetch that too. In fact,
he’ll retrieve anything. At dog shows 1
can ask him to bring me equipment
and things from the tack box.”

She paused, and then confessed:
“Of course, he doesn’t always bring
the thing I ask for. But he always
brings something.”

I asked, “What about tricks?”

Ryan laughed and said, “Oh, yes,
tricks. Let’s see—he sits up like a
poodle, crawls on command, and I’d
like to teach him to grin on command,
but he hasn’t gotten it yet. He only
grins when he wants to.”

Only grins when he wants to! Major
is sounding less and less like a robot.
I asked about further ambitions.
“Well, we’re doing a little fieldwork
now, just for the exercise, but I guess
we’ll show him.”

They are doing field-trial work—
difficult work, usually done only by
professionals, into which some dog
owners pour an enormous amount of
money—“just for the exercise.” Re-
member that the next time you hear
that field-trial dogs are the toys of the
wealthy. And the next time you hear
that show dogs of any sort are the toys
of the wealthy, remember that Major
was bought from a breeder in Yucaipa.

I asked Ryan why in the world she
is putting all that time into a dog who
has nothing fancy in the way of pedi-
gree. “Oh, I guess I just like him,”
she said.

That’s why the American Kennel
Club promotes competitions in which
dogs earn the title Companion Dog
Excellent. Some people just like their
dogs, and show training is a way to
just like your dog.

 




OAKLAND CA TRIBUNE - March 11, 1986

Berkeley dogcatcher charged

with taking $200 for finding pet _

. By Kathy O’Toole
The Tribune

BERKELEY —— A city animal
control officer has been charged
with a misdemeanor after col-
lecting a $200 reward for return-
ing a missing 1 1-year-old cocker
_spaniel.

Jeff Horner, Alameda County
deputy district attorney, yester-
day charged Carl Filbert, an ani—
mal control officer, with accept-
ing a gratuity for doing his offi-
cial duty as a public employee,
which is a misdemeanor under
state law.

Conviction of the penalty
could bring a sentence to up to
six months in jail and a $500
fine, Horner said.

In November, Muffie, a cock-
er spaniel owned by Stephanie
Frese, escaped from her baby-
sitter and was found by college
students who contacted the
city‘s animal shelter. Filbert re—
turned Muffie to her tearful
owner and collected a $200 re-
ward that had been offered on a
poster in the city-run animal
shelter, according to Muffie‘s
owner.

Joan Pulsipher, city humane
“commissioner, and Frese said
they took the matter to the po~

lice Feb. 26 because they felt
city officials had ignored the law
and failed to adequately punish a
“betrayal of the public trust.”

Kathy Flood, animal control
supervisor in charge of Berke-
ley’s animal control workers,
said, however, that accepting a
reward isn’t against her depart-
ment’s written rules and “it nev-
er dawned on me it was possibly
a crime.”

“When I found out (about the
payment) I acted immediately
to get the dog owner her money
back,” Flood said. “The officer
was very sorry and wanted to
give the money back.”

Filbert said he was “ignorant
of the law” against gratuities
and refused further comment
except to say, “I don’t remember
all the details.”

Pulsipher and Frese said they

think the incident should have

been reported to police and an
effort made to fire Filbert.

“When I paid (the $200 re-
ward), I was hysterical and so
happy to have my dog back, I
didn’t care,” Frese said. “He
drove up in his city truck and
was wearing his animal control
uniform. But he told me he found

V . Reunited J

the dog the evening before on his
own time.

“Later I started thinking that
some kid who didn’t have $200
might never have seen his dog
again,” she said.

Flood confirmed the city held
a disciplinary hearing because of
the incident. Filbert was given
two days off without pay, which
would cost him about $165.

“The disciplinary action was
based upon a breach of proce-
dures, not for accepting the re-
ward,” she said, because “in our
general orders, there was noth-
ing written about that.”

Flood said she will correct the
oversight by submitting new con-
duct rules to the city council-ap-
pointed Humane Commission at
its meeting later this month.

Accepting gifts is against the

written rules for City of Oakland
animal control officers, who

come under the conduct code for '

non-sworn personnel of the Oak-
land Police Department, said
Sgt. Michael Sims of the police
department’s internal affairs
division.

Pulsipher and Frese want the
city to adOpt a policy that em-
ployees will be fired for accept-
ing gratuities.

(ﬁftvﬁ-z

Stephanie Frese of Berkeley
got some good news recently
when 3 Berkeley animal
control officer returned her
missing cocker spaniel,

_ Muffie, to her. But the result
was less than happy for the
animal control officer, who
faces misdemeanor charges
for accepting the $200 reward
Frese offered. Story, Page A-Al3.-

 

«I '->.; ‘gﬁf—VEHI}, , .

y Ron Riesterer/The Tribune

 




CLEVELAND PLAIN DEALER - March 31, 1986

, Ugly dogs die

ROGEION / CMENTAOMRY

‘These two were mixed coon hounds. And they were not
much to look at. And the decision was made not to
place them for adoption. ’

am telling you right up front this
has to do with dead puppies. So
don’t say you weren’t warned.

Brian and Jayne Dick were driving
back home from the seashore a few
Sundays ago when they saw the
puppies at the side of the road.

“They were all alone,” Jayne said.
“They looked cute and pathetic. They
were a little skinny and dirty, but still
cute.”

The cuteness or non-cuteness of
these dogs becomes very important
later on in this tale. That is because
this story also has to do with beauty
and ugliness and how, even if you are
a dog, it is far, far better to be
beautiful in our society.

The Dicks saw the puppies and
turned their car around to take a
closer look. Jayne was worried that
the dogs might get run over or starve
to death and so she turned to Brian
and said: “Let’s take them home and
then take them to the humane society
on Monday.” .

“OK,” Brian said.

The Dicks knew they could not keep
the puppies permanently. They lived
in an apartment outside Baltimore
and they already had a dog.

So on Monday, the Dicks called
Humane Society of Carroll County
Inc, which said it had room for the

puppies.

The Dicks had clear intentions
about them. When they picked up their
own dog at the kennel on Sunday, they
posted a notice saying they had two
puppies that needed homes. ~

Also, as Jayne was driving the dogs
to the humane society, Brian was at
work asking colleagues if they wanted
a dog.

“We were not sitting idle,” Jayne
said.

When Jayne got to the humane
society, carrying the two dogs in a
nice canvas bag. She asked: “You’ll
find them a home?”

She says the reply was: “We’ll do
the best we can.”

“I understood that,” Jayne said. “I
understood they can’t work miracles.
I also thought they would make some
effort. I didn’t know they would gas
the dogs three hours later.”

Jayne made a donation of $20 and
left

At work, Brian was having some
luck. He found a guy who had a new
baby in the family and wanted a
puppy for, the baby to grow up with.

- So at about 12:15 pm, Brian called

the humane society to tell them he
had found a home for one of the

puppies.

“And they told me the dogs had
been destroyed,” Brian said. “I said:

“What do you mean destroyed? We just
gave you $20 to feed them, at least for
a while.’

“But they told me the dogs didn’t
look like they were adoptable, so they
destroyed them. If I had known they
were going to do that, I would have
kept them. I was angry. To me, they
were cute dogs. They looked like ‘
beagles. Long floppy ears, white
bodies with brown spots. Cute.”

' I called the humane society and ~

talked to the director, Carolyn Ratliff.

“We get 5,000 dogs a year here,”
she said, “and I wish I could find 5,000
people who wanted them. But I can’t.
In this business, you find what dogs
move and what dogs don’t. These two

were mixed coon hounds. And they
were not much to look at. And the
decision was made not to place them

' for adoption.”

Why? I asked.

“Because peeple don’t kmck down

- my doors looking for mixed coon

hounds,” she said. “Mixed poodles,
mixed collies, that’s different. But .
these two were basically unattractive
dogs. And it is winter, and winter is a
tough time to get adoptions.”

So you destroyed them?

“We kill dogs here,” she said.
“Absolutely. That’s the way animal
shelters work. My idea of humane is
not to have tons of puppies sitting in

cages not getting adopted.”

The Dicks are still upset. “First, the

puppies were not unattractive, they
, were cute,” Jayne said, “and if we had
; known they were going to destroy

them without even trying to find a
home for them, we would have kept
them. I would not have let them be
gassed.”

Ratliff has offered to give the Dicks
their $20 back and said I could come
over to inspect her facility any time I
wanted to.

But that is not the point. The
- humane society is a business, and like
any business, the pe0ple who run it
know which products move off the
. shelves and which products do not.

I think the real question is one of
fair warning. I suggest the humane
society put up a large sign that says:

“Warning! If we think your animal
is ugly, we might kill it in the next
three hours.”

That would let the public make an
informed choice as to whether to
leave the animals or not. And it might
give some animals an improved
chance of survival.

So that’s my advice to the humane

society. Either put up a sign. 0r
change your name.

LOS ANGELES TIMES

 




 

 

Reading a press release about
Easter Sunday brunch at a large
area hotel last week, I was--for a
moment--taken by the thought of
voluptuous dishes and holiday
lightheartedness that would be in
store for brunchers. -

~The Easter Bunny would, after

all, be present throughout the late
morning and early afternoon to
greet children, who would, no
doubt, be garbed in new Easter
dresses and suits.

Free Easter eggs and jelly beans
would be there for kids to take,
and ladies would receive spring
ﬂowers. .

Folks would 'have a chance to

'win $150 by coming closest to'

guessing the number of rainbow-

colored jelly beans that would ﬁll a 1

huge bowl in the atrium.

YES, ALL that sounded very
nice.

But I cbuldn’t help noticing that
someone had made a very highly
questionable plan for this Easter
celebration. In its press release,
the hotel was promising to give
away live rabbits to diners every
half-hour.

To whom will the unwitting
Easter bunnies be' awarded? To
whomever. Winning names will be
chosen in a drawing, rather like

pulling a rabbit out of a hat.

‘ I am not an animals’ rights
activist. I don’t even own a pet.
But for the life of me, I cannot see
how event planners for a fine hotel

like this one could conceive such a
barbaric plan.

Perhaps barbaric is too strong a'

word —- certainly, the hotel only
wants to delight girls and boys and
mommies and daddies.

BUNNIES ARE CUTE. I have-
no idea whether the hotel plans to
give away white ones with pink
eyes or brown ones or black ones or
mottled ones, but regardless of
their color, the rabbits will surely
draw oohs and aahs. .

If the bunnies are babies, people
will probably adore them even
more. After all, babies of most
mammal species are beguiling.
And Easter comes in the season of
birth.

, Doubtless, the eyes of tens of
children will widen at the sight of
what some estrus bunny hath
brought. Only the most stalwart,
strictest parents may be able to the
resist the cries of “I wanna keep
him” that will, almost surely, echo
through the hotel atrium.

BUT BABY domestic rabbits are
fragile animals. Adults, too, are

sedentary and not made for'rough-
ousing. Altercations with the fam-
ily dog or cat could kill them.

And although they are cute,
little bunnies’ looks don’t make
them cleanly. Cuteness doesn’t ex-
empt them from. the need for food.
It doesn’t keep them from having
lots of littler bunnies (though hav-
ing only one will do the trick).

Being soft and fluffy does not
keep rabbits from suffering when
their owners neglect them. It
doesn’t keep them safe from other
animals. And it doesn’t keep them
safe from toddlers or aggressive
children.

THE HUMANE SOCIETY has
issued a call for parents not to give
rabbits or chicks as Easter giftsto
their children. It asks that parents
who desire a rabbit as a family pet
have that rabbit neutered before it
can reproduce.

As a matter of fact, the Humane
Society offers rabbits for adoption
by families who believe they will
care for the pet after Easter time.
Adoption fees include the cost of
neutering. ' .

I suspect that the society will

also be able to supply better infor- .

mation on how to care for and feed
rabbits than a hotel. Perhaps the
society will be. able to tell parents

how to build a sturdy, sheltered
rabbit cage, as well.

The cage comes to mind, as I'

remember three rabbits my family
adopted, when I was about 12
years old. We kept them in large,
covered, wire-sided cages in our
large, open back yard.

ONE RAINY, chilly morning, I
awoke to loud and unceasing bark-
ing. Apparently, there were some
dogs in the back yard.

I thought little of it, until the

 

I. nsle'
Il‘éllinsy

Brunch Is Net Place To Adept A Pet

Lifestyle'
Editor

 

 

M

~

Views expressed by columnists
are not necessarily those of the
Southside Sun

 

noise grew irritating enough to
drive me outside to see what was
the matter. The matter was three
or four big' dogs all astir about the
rabbits. ‘

I looked on the ground. One
rabbit was lying .there dead, its
neck apparently broken by a bite.
A second rabbit was lying in its
cage, untouched, apparently dead
of heart failure. The third rabbit
was; gone, either run away or car-
ried away.

We hadn’t gotten our rabbits as
Easter gifts. We thought we took
pretty good care of our pets, but it
wasn’t good enough. It’s sad to
think what might happen to such
gentle animals at the hands of
those who come to see bunnies as a
burden. ‘

98/Z/E - muenv - an aqxsamos




TAMPA TRIBUNE - March 29, 1986

Freedom

2 captive manatees
get taste of the wild

By MARTHA QUILLIN
Tribune Staff Writer

HOMOSASSA SPRINGS — Lured by carrots,
wrapped in a net and surrounded by nearly two dozen
volunteers, Sunrise and Savannah —— Homosassa Springs
Nature World’s celebrity sea cows — made manatee his-
tory Friday as they left the west coast attraction for the
great unknown.

The rely-poly river dwellers, 4- year-olds originally
from the Miami Seaquarium, are the first captive-born
manatees to be released into the wild. After living at the
park for nearly two years, they were taken one at a time
Friday through a gate opening from the main springs
into the Homosassa River. ' -

They looked a little confused from all the activity,
but the animals fared well in their transition from fet-
tered to free. 7

“They look fantastic,” said Dr. Jesse White, chief vet-
erinarian of the Miami Seaquarium and pioneer of the
captive-breeding program designed to help repopulate
the endangered species. “They’re doing great.”

White brought the animals by truck to Nature World
in 1984, two years after they were born to rehabilitated
manatees found injured in Florida waters. Sunrise, a
male, and Savannah, a female, had spent all their time
in saltwater tanks before coming here to learn how
other manatees live. .

There are an estimated 1,200 to 2,500 of the cigar-
shaped mammals, most of those around Florida. In the
winter, many of them paddle in from the Gulf toward
spring-fed rivers or power plant outtake canals in search
of warmth, then move back out in the late spring.

In the process, the gentle creatures often are injured
or killed by boat propellers, despite state and federal
regulations requiring lowered speeds around known
manatee habitats.

The animals have no known enemies.

‘-‘We want to give these critters as much of a chance
as we can,” White said before donning a wet suit and
sliding into the chilly headwaters Sunrise and Savannah
have been calling home. '

US. Fish and Wildlife Service officials had cleared
the area of boats before the noon release so the animals’
introduction into the wild wouldn’t involve the hum of
an outboard motor.

 

 

. Tribunepoto by SONYA momma:
Volunteers from Homosassa Springs Nature World hold Savannah the manatee in
a net Friday before releasmg the sea cow, which was born in captivity.

 




 

HOUSTON CHRONICLE - March 27, 1586

he river, the
downstream,

preferring instead to stay close to the steel gate that had

But even with' the relative stillness of t
been their front door.

manatees were cautious about venturing

Ofﬁcer Wounds dog coming t

 

By MAUREEN BALLEZA
and ERIC HANSON
Houston Chronicle

7‘: .

 

Jo-Jo was simply following instinct and protect-
ing his mistress when'the mixetd Labrador bit a
Houston police officer who tried to rouse the sleep-
ing woman from her car. ' '

5

Now the dog remains in
limbo at the city’s animal
control center with a severe
gunshot wound to the muz-
zle. The owner was jailed
Wednesday for public intoxi-
cation.

“We‘re going to try to con.
tact the owner in some way
to get it released to a veteri-
narian, which means the
owner is accepting responsi~

bility for’the treatment,” Adlbright
said the center’s Dr. Robert
Armstrong. \

The animal control center is not equipped to
treat animals. and it can’t send the dog to a private

veterinarian because it has no way to pay for treat- .

ment. , '
For Officer Charles Allbright, it was thefirst

13¢) . “00' “<5 2&0 ,2
25 seﬁéaexa °w5e23 a
L“ (“CU I BC“ +_. 0:3 0)
ca 03 L11“ a.
Go m...m“’.o .m oemm .c: m
on: 'o'=>-?- chm: ”‘54.... 3
3:» gagoﬁﬂomg -.b>,°+-‘qgm.o
55803 0305” c50n°3
Ecumghomhgm moﬁmma-T3
o“ 1'3“” saw" at) 3—D”. o
*omo‘: 5:“0 ‘a 1-. “5:0 '0
00"“:19 v 3.8:: cum 0&3 2
gagwgﬁgehwm OESgHm 8
=0~6.~ a who .ﬁo :- eﬁ
asamaﬁsgaee 90m3°3 %
ohmga mg‘.“®_: “>333 ;“
3:0 ”as OEﬁB»UQ“HmE¢-p
mgeabvgs-BSQ MUHmOG‘E-‘i‘:
e390 oeucgg Swansea“
'~~ n°“¢ “hwar 3%3 bud
aﬁmgwtoﬁvuw *. ‘1’. c
max '5 Us nwmnhs
oﬁwae$eggag ﬁgeg“g x
r'mEo --‘ .c: "" "‘ <9“
§E_Eﬁgﬁg=;g éaﬁﬁapea
r‘n‘"~omo m 3:” H—
063 - a): rd)
.‘wﬁxBEBQ-“g: mgocxamn
“.gnm'c m 23 63.3.0306“
M 8033.3 83+» 52 our.” E500
0233xc§>m%gdamuo§ 9“
mugm“‘=2°mmaab:5°b:“bﬁ
a (a S o m .
u'OOHQ) mm'U _. 13>)B-g00
mamﬁhnvooHo—‘mxaw q>.*:
gmmomgnmoo ""- 3a: «”023
H DB‘“En-ﬂ53¢3 ”“E' '
:ﬂ‘”< tut-4:1: =Qwuu§0>
BE QQOmU—n'oﬁ 03““008'
O (35> ¢°"‘I3¢U git—«~33
68 auoEme: u:w a

 

dio stations all over

from papers, and teleVision and ra

the state, along with touris

time in seven years he has fired his pistol to pro-
tect himself. ‘

“You hate to hurt anyone, including an animal
but you have to protect yourself," he said.

The incident occurred about 12:30 pm. Wednes-
day in a parking lot behind a bank in the 8400 block
of Long Point in northwest Houston.

Houston police Sgt. C.M. Tilgham said Allbright
wasoff-duty and working a security job at the bank
when a customer came into the lobby and told him
there was a woman, “passed out in the parking lot.”

“He went out there to investigate and found a

I woman sleeping in the car,” Tilgham said.

Allbright opened the door and tried to wake the
woman and when he did, Jo-Jo leaped out from
under the car and bit his leg.

“It surprised me. I saw a leash when I walked up

‘ but I didn’t see him under the car. When he at-

tacked, my first thought was about getting away,”
he said. “I kicked him off and stepped back about
three feet and then he came at me again.”

Jo-Jo, who weighs nearly 50 pounds, continued to ’

bite Allbright so he pulled his .357-caliber pistol
and fired once, hitting the animal in the muzzle.

“I had to shoot him before he hurt me,” Allbright
added. '

Allbright’s pants were torn and he had suffered'
some minor cuts and abrasions on his left leg. The

  
          
   
   
 

  

 

 

 

 
 

’ summer habitats and a

mitters emit a PM signal,

"Llucluo “(6' Q)
0&8“ as Ewing—‘3
:53:an «301300
“3 “50$ 0050759.).
043.3“ G "am“ :3
can) t: wwvo- a:
“who: xgw'um E
“squat/J OOHQQ ca
003m>§ en '08 g 2‘
+55; «.9 wago‘“ § i- - 5
on) Eat/3.9.089“ m: :5 2-:
H000 omeaME ﬁx U3“
3i— 3 H .980) 2““1'3:
o. m r .c: \.—-mg
“q, ‘3 "ESQ“ ‘33 3,95
13;: a) ”as: at. _
ca 3: .200“ m 0C.)
m a a“ a <
9 a as e s 5
r:
g 3.3% 16 8
2:3 #17: ,"
.9 Ed) ‘3‘ §
IU ”-1: i0 E
B“ .10
'O .
3.55
U!
£0
£8
“8
gm
t—«E
c:
N

tees since they arrived. All who came in
printouts describing the release progra

minded that the ra
Savannah are harmless to the anim

often poke out of the water when

dents who had been following
to the surface.

COWS

o aid of owner.

)3}? 48

 
   
     

dog ran across the street into a residential area.

Houston animal control employees found Jo-Jo
about a block away behind a house.

Sgt. Tilgham said it appears that Jo-Jo‘s owner,
Eleanor Dolores Palus, 46, had been living in the
car and that she was intoxicated.

The gunshot went through the muzzle, hard pal-
ate and tongue before lodging in the jaw, said
Armstrong.

Animal control employees gave Jo-Jo something
for shock, cleaned the wound and slowed the bleed
ing, said Armstrong, adding that they can do little
else until they get authorization from Palus.

Armstrong said they would try to get Palus to
sign a release. The animal control center can keep
a dog for as long as two weeks, but officials said if
Jo-Jo’scondition worsens they would take other
steps to ensure treatment.

Allbright, who says he likes dogs and has one at
home, said he was sorry to have to shoot the animal
but was afraid the dog was going to seriously injure
him. ' .-

“I’ve spent seven years on the department, all of
them on patrol, and this is the first time I have
ever had to discharge my weapon,” he added.

The HPD internal affairs division, which looks
into all shootings involving officers, is investigating
the case. ‘

 

Tribune map

Release of the animals involved about 20 volunteers

who stood in wet suits or jeans in a line across the river,

holding a bouyed net. A park volunteer who had spent
Onlookers strained over a wooden.

hours with Sunrise and Savannah .swam around with
them in the spring, offering bananas and carrots to lure
casionally in the clear water as she was walked toward

them toward the net. Savannah went first, thrashing oc-
the gate.

footbridge to

watch and snap photos as the gate was raised to allow

'1

man and beast to pass under. Then with a flip of the tail,

Savannah was gone.

Sunrise was a little harder to lure but eventually was

coaxed toward the net and led to‘ freedom.

While onlookers cheered for the nearly stressless
movement of the manatees from the spring into the

wild, park employee Raymond Thompson

goodb

where thou-

sadlv waved
Sunrise and Savanna

ye from his station at the observatory,

h

sands of people have viewed
through underwater windows.




 

CLEVELAND PLAIN DEALER — March 31, 1986

British fox hunters in acorner

t t e
Blood sports like dogfighting
have been illegal in Britain for over

a hundred years, but fox hunting
was always an exception.

" By KEVIN McCORMACK
. LONDON

he thunder of hunters’ hoofs

galloping across the country-

side in pursuit of a fox; the
skill of a huntsman guiding the
hounds over ditches and streams,
pitting his wits against the legend-
ary cunning of his prey.

That’s the traditional view of fox
hunting in Britain -— a quaint ride
. through the fields with a history
dating back more than a thousand
years. ‘

But in recent years animal rights
groups have shattered that image,

 

replacing it with one of a cruel and .

barbaric sport -— a sport that may
all but disappear by the end of the
decade.

Though blood sports like dogfight-
ing have been illegal in Britain for
over a hundred years, fox hunting
was always an exception. Even
groups like the Royal Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
(RSPCA) and the League Against

Cruel Sports accepted the fox hunt _

as a gentleman’s sport, uniquely
British in its pageantry.

In the 1960s and ’705, however,

as these groups became more mili-
tant, their members determined to
expose the seamier side of the fox
hunt. They began infiltrating the
hunts, becoming trusted enough to
film what went on.

For the first time hunting was
shown not as a sporting spectacle
but as a calculated method of pro-
viding a fox to chase and kill. Films
portrayed how the night before the
hunt, a “stopper” goes into an area
where there is known to be a fox and
blocks up the den to ensure that it
can’t retreat underground when it
returns from a night’s search for
food.

The following morning the hunt
flushes the fox into the Open. At
first its speed enables it to outrun
the slow-moving hounds. But grad-

 

' ually the greater stamina of the

pack wears it down until it is caught.

Even if the fox succeeds in find-
ing an unblocked den, it is not safe.
Terriers are sent to flush it back
into the Open. If the hunt has had a
long ride, all exits are blocked up

and the terriers are sent down to
corner and kill the fox.

Films also detailed how the
hounds are trained to kill. Fox cubs
are captured and thrown to the
young hounds so that they get a
taste of blood at an early age. As
they grow other foxes are captured
and have their feet cut before being
turned loose; the trail of blood helps
the hounds learn how to follow a
scent. Each year, some 30,000 foxes
are killed.

Highlighting the effect of such
revelations on public opinion, polls

found over 70% of the population
supported a ban on fox hunting.

But the fox hunting lobby has
fought back, some members even
joining ranks with blood sports they
find distasteful, such as hare cours-
ing where greyhounds chase and kill
hares, to block any new legislation
aimed at restricting hunting.

As a result, fox hunting has
become that much more identified
with such illegal activities as bad-
ger-baiting (digging out to expose
a badger and then setting terriers
to fight and kill it) and dogfighting.

In a highly publicized case last
August, 10 men were tried and con-
victed of participating in a pit-bull
terrier match in Enfield, just out-
side London, described by the
RSPCA as “one of the most bar-
baric acts of deliberate cruelty.”
Seven of the 10 were identified as
fox hunters.

Fox hunters have also tried to
block efforts to remove a 100phole
in the law enabling badger hunters
to claim they were digging for foxes,
which is legal, rather than badgers,
which isn’t. Says John Bryant, wel-

fare officer of the League Against

,. Cruel Sports, “the hunting and shoot-

ing lobby see it as a foot in the door.

. Every single badger digger over the

last three years has also been a fox
hunter.”

. ' Recently the league persuaded the

Labor Party to pledge to ban all

hunting with dogs if they win the

neXt election. The Liberal and Social _
Democrat parties are expected to

, adopt similar pledges this year.

. ' in a successful lawsuit'against a

fox hunting group for allowing their

, pack to enter a league wildlife sanc-

tuary, the league also won a legal
precedent regarding hound trespass.
Previously courts considered it tres-
pass only if the riders entered the

property.

Thousands of farmers have now
sought injunctions banning the hunt
from their pr0perty, seriously
reducing the amount of land Open
for hunts to cross. Several local
authorities have followed suit,
declaring all land under their juris-
diction “hunt-free” zones.

Under the growing strain, a few
hunts have now disbanded and others
are having to merge to provide
enough land to hunt on.

Many fox hunters continue to talk
of the tradition and virtues of their
sport, and the need to preserve a
way of life that was once a national
symbol. But more and more, they
are finding themselves boxed into a
corner with unlikely. and embarrass-
ing allies and no place to run.

 

McCormack, a freelance journal
ist in London, wrote this for Pacific
News Service.

 

 




3‘30" 8Q)

THE TAMPA TRIBUNE-TIMES, :

 

Endangered dusky sparrow
one step away from extinction

By MIKE TONER
Cox News Service

ORLANDO — For the dusky
seaside sparrow the end has come,
not with a bang, but with a lonely
twitter. The species, always reclu-
sive and rare in the Florida salt
marshes it once inhabited, is now a
population of one.

Shielded from public view, the

‘ last known dusky seaside sparrow
on Earth, a graying 12-year-old
male, blind in one eye, now resides
in an unobtrusive screened cage at
a Disney World zoological park.

There, among tufts of its native
cord grass, it is nesting this spring
for what may be the last time -— a
union with a related species that
scientists hope will help preserve
at least some of the bird’s genetic
traits in future generations of sea-
side sparrows.

But scientists fear this will be
the last time the mating call of the
dusky seaside sparrow is heard.

Twenty years after the species

was first declared endangered, the

hopes of bird lovers and biologists

now hinge on a single, lilting song,

and the opportunity to salvage one
or two more pinkish eggs the size
of a navy bean, and perhaps, if
breeders are really fortunate, one
last frail and hairless chick. A
“It’s sad, but for the dusky sea-
side sparrow, this is really the end

of the line,” says Marshall Jones,
chief of endangered species pro-
grams for the US. Fish and Wild-
life Service’s regional office in At-
lanta. “When this one is gone, there
won’t be any more.”

As the second bird to become
extinct since the US. Endangered
Species Act was passed in 1973, the
dusky was the victim of the na-
tion’s space program, a superhigh-
way, Florida development and
years of bureaucratic indecision.
‘ As a practical matter, the fate
of the shy little sparrow was tragi-

/ cally clear in 1980 when, in a des-

perate effort to save the species,
wildlife biologists rounded up the
last birds in the wild.

The birds were intended to be
the nucleus of aflock that would
perpetuate the species in captivity.
There was just one problem. Biolo-
gists had found only five birds ~-
and all five of them were males.

Since then, old age has taken its
inevitable toll. In 1983, ‘four
“duskies” remained alive. Last
year there were two. Now, since
the death on Feb. 10 of another 10-
year-old male, there is only one.

“No dusky seaside sparrow has
been seen in the wild since 1980,”
says Charles L., Cook, curator of
Disney's Discovery Island, where
the surviving birds have been
housed since 1983.

During the last three years, Dis-

ney officials and the Florida Audu-
bon Society have cooperated in a
controversial program to cross-

. breed the remaining birds with the

Scott’s seaside sparrow, a more
plentiful native species of the Flor-
ida Gulf Coast.

Through “cross-back” matings,
they had hoped to produce a flock
of hybrid sparrows that, after five
breeding seasons, would be 97 per-
cent dusky.

It was not to be. The low fer-
tility of the captured males —— and
their declining numbers —- have
left the efforts to reconstitute the
species far short of its original ob-
jectives. Of nine hybrid eggs laid
last year, only two hatched. There
are only five hybrid birds, and only
one that is 87.5 percent “dusky.”

“We had hoped for as many as
15 birds a year, so we are obvi-
ously way behind,” says Dr. Her-
bert Kale, the Audubon ornitholo-
gist who conceived the project.

In spite of the setbacks, Disney
and Audubon intend to press ahead
with the breeding program -— even
after the death of the last dusky.

Regardless of the degree of
their racial purity, the hybrid spar-
rows face an uncertain future. In
the view of the Fish and Wildlife
Service, they are non-species —-
deserving neither federal protec-
tion nor the right to be released on
federal lands.

 

UPI photo

One dusky seaside sparrow is known to remain on Earth, in a
cage at Walt Disney World’s Discovery Island zoological park.

Although some conservationists
blame the federal government for
waiting too long to begin rounding
up the last birds in the wild, the un-
derlying causes of the species’ col-
lapse are not easily isolated.

First discovered in Florida’s
Brevard County in 1872, the dusky
seaside sparrow apparently never
strayed outside a lO-mile radius of
the spartina grass marshes along
the lagoons of Merritt Island and
the upper St. Johns River.

After the area was selected as
the site for the nation’s Spaceport,

authorities built an extensive sys-
tem of dikes and levees to control
the mosquitoes that made the area
all but uninhabitable. In the pro-
cess they drowned mosquito breed-
ing areas and the marshes that sup-
ported the largest colony of dusky
seaside sparrows.

Near Possum Bluff on the St.
Johns River, a second, smaller
colony of the birds’ marshes de-
clined in the early 19705 as a result
of drainage projects and wildfires.
The species never recovered. It
will die with the last dusky.

 

Y

 

 

 




"H I ll AT] A Vii-t (It DNS'I‘I'I‘U'I‘H DN

 

“A Fritlu), “arch 2“, “Nib “X”

 

 

Adopt-a—goat maybe cheap
answer to doll-adopt ion pitch

Following in the hoofprints of its suc—
cessful burro adeption program, the Fund
for Animals has come up with another deal
for you. I
' No kidding, how would you like a goat
, or two -- or even 2,000? .

Initially designated for death in the
Navy’s Mass Shooting Program, the goats
were rescued from a military firing mange
on San Clemente Island, Calif. And volun-
teers for the Fund are now conducting pre—
adoption screening to place them with local
families. '

Some 800 goats have already been
adapted around the country, and Lewis Re-
genstein, Atlanta-based vice president of the
Fund. says he hopes about 100 more will
find homes in the metro-Atlanta area after
they arrive Saturday.

' The price is right: Only $35 for a nanny,
just $25 for a hilly. But only four or five po—
tential adopters have signed up so far.
, “I’m having a tough time finding people
who want goats,” admits Fund volunteer
Shirl Darrow. Goats don't have the appeal of
'hurros, she says, perhaps because they can't
be ridden. But Ms. Darrow is sure they have
’ some good qualities -— like eating kudzu.

In truth, they’ll eat almost any kind of
overgrowth, and you can use them to mow
your lawn. Goats even eat —- and like ~-
'- poison ivy, says Linda Chesnut who has two.
Of course, she warns, “They cannot distin-
guish between poison ivy and a nice plant.”
,, But they’re good pets, just the same,
says Mrs. Chesnut, who once knew a lady
who ~— to the chagrin of her husband ~—
kept a goat in the house.

Although many pcOplc scoff, goats have
throughout history appealed to a select
group of admirers. The Greek god, Zeus, for
instance, was nursed by a goat. While he
was president, Abraham Lincoln bought two

goats for his son, Tad, and, when the gar-
dener objected to their presence on the

White House grounds, allowed them to play
in the East Room. Poet Carl Sandburg and
his wife, Lillian Steichen Sandburg, managed
a herd of 250 dairy goats on their Flat
Rock, N.C., farm. '

To become a goat owner, you must
swear off any desire to eat barbecued kid
and have suitable property. Goats require
less space than burros ~— 3 half~acre or per-
haps even a quarter-acre each —— but they
also need a more secure environment. Since
they have Olympic capabilities at the stand-
ing broad jump, the fence should be at least
five feet high, and, because they put Houdini

to shame as escape artists, the fencing must

be a heavy gauge, close-knit mesh. Goats
also need shelter, at least three sides with a
roof. ,4 ‘
Adepters are generally required to neu-
ter the animals, since the Fund discourages
breeding. Neutering also eliminates the odor
common to male goats.

, Kim Hernandez, who is offering her Tate
property as a holding pen for the goats
when they first arrive in Georgia, plans to
keep one or possibly two. “What’s the sense

of having a place like this if you can’t have,

animals?” she asks with a shrug.
- For information on adepting a goat, call
Shirl Darrow at 378-0844. ’
-- Keith Graham

 

 

cm. BRANW/pi
Peter Caron with one of the goats at the Octagon
Wildlife Sanctuary in Ft. Lauderdale, Fla.

 

 

 




 

DALLAS TIMES HERALD - March 26, 1986

 

A tartan

I I . v ..
”175/9 p/V/f5 THE COMMERCIAL APPEAL @— 24- S’QJ

 

 

By Philip Ashford
Nashville Bureau

NASHVILLE —. Nothing pains legislators
more than a big fight over something none
of them cares about.

But that is what has embroiled the Ten-
nessee General Assembly on the issue of re-
gulating exotic birds and animals.

Owners and breeders of such beasts were
incensed by reports the legislature was try-
ing to do away with them as pets.

They put the heat on their legislators.

“I didn’t realize there were so many peo-
ﬁle out there who had exotic animals,” said

ep. U. A. Moore (R-Millington).

Moore found himself in the center of the

; storm when he agreed to sponsor legislation

 

i
\ F.

L. for the Tennessee Wildlife Resources Agen-

 

 

 

 

cy to regulate exotic animals kept as pets
and in private menageries. The wildlife
agency had the regulatory role thrust on it
by an attorney general’s ruling a year ago.

TWRA put together a bill on exotic ani-
mals that would have resulted in their
possession being quickly phased out.

When word got around to owners of jun-
gle cats and apes, tropical birds, and other
animals, they let their legislators know
what they thought of the bill.

TWRA swiftly backed away from the origi-
nal proposal, with director Gary Myers say-
ing the agency would do whatever the legis-

lature wanted on the issue.

After hearings in which large numbers of
lion tamers descended on the Capitol, a com-
promise proposal was worked out setting out
standards and fees for the keeping of exotic
animals and providing enforcement and in-

Roaring over Wild animal bill tamed

spection powers for TWRA.

But just when it looked like legislators
were out of the woods, trouble sprang up.
TWRA officials balked at provisions allow-
ing people to keep black bears and white-
tailed deer, both native to Tennessee.

“We don’t need to be monkeying with
things that will affect our own wildlife,”
said Moore, who was not joking.

A fragile new agreement was worked out

.in which wolves, cheetahs and pumas were

reclassified in exchange for deleting the na-
tive wildlife, which also includes wild tur-
keys, bobcats, and monk and black-hooded
parakeet.

The bill is still pending in a Senate com-
mittee, where sponsors have laid back to let
their House colleagues take the heat and
work out a solution.

.Mw.

 

 

 

Inhumanityto a beloved pet

To the Editor:

k.

ERIKA HARTMAN
San Antonio

The department is appealing

—— at taxpayer expense —— a
' court decision that they must re-

his owner, leaning against him

and looking like a hurt child.
turn him or disclose the drop-off

drove 20 minutes to an isolated
point. They should show some

area and dumped him.
heart -— not so much for us hu-

mans, but for Bubba, the inno-

They dragged him to a car trun
cent victim.

This is in behalf of Bubba the
javelina, who was a beloved pet
~raised from the age of two
ays and grew up with his fam-
Men from the Texas Parks

ily’s children, watching TV with
and Wildlife Department en-

his Teddy bear clutched under
his arm. He was neutered and

for almost 10 years. He was
did not bother anyone.

hand

d
shot a tranqumzer dart into his
body. Bubba staggered over to

tered the family's home and

 

 




NATIONAL ENQUIRER - April 8, 1986

Wby Dogs & (at: Really Are Man '5 Best

Friends

By LARK? MASIDLOVER

Dogs and cats are vitally '

important because they
entertain us like stand-up
comics, exercise us like
gym coaches, love us like
children and listen to us
like psychiatrists -— all
for a few hundred dollars
a year, says a leading ex-
pert.

Here are major ways dogs and
cats benefit their owners:

0 They entertain us.

A dog will happily chase a ball or
do tricks for treats; a cat will chase
an imaginary mouse or play with a
piece of string. “They’re at least as
amusing as a late night movie,” said
university anthropologist Marvin
Harris.

0 They listen to us like psychia-
trists.

“You can talk to them about your
innermost feelings knowing your
deepest secrets are safe.

“As psychiatrists and priests have
long recognized, frustration and
anxiety can be reduced merely by
having someone listen to you or
even appear to listen to you.

“There have been cases of psychi-
atric patients who were given pet ;
dogs and cats after refusing to talk 1

to doctors. Talking to the animals

.—

Dogs also protect peeple
from attack and guard pr0p-
erty against intruders, he
pointed out.

Dr. Harris, author of the
new book “Good to Eat: Rid-
dles of Food and Culture,"
said that although people in
some countries eat dogs or
cats, Americans do not be-
cause dogs and cats have
proven themselves to be
“more useful as compan-
ions.”

 

 

 

helped them become less withdrawn
and comfortable enough to

l—-

talk to the doctors."
0 They exercise you.

“When you exercise your for a walk, or playing with a
l

 

pet you exercise yourself ——
whether it’s taking the dog

 

cat with a ball of string,” ex-
plained Dr. Harris, a pro-

fessor of anthropology at the
,University of Florida.

0 They heal you like phy.

I sicians.

Evidence shows that when
people pet their dogs or cats,

and their blood pressure de-
creases, Dr. Harris said.

They help people over-
come loneliness, boredom
and depression, and the psy-
chological lift they provide
helps make our lives health-
ier and happier.

0 They love you like chil-
dren.

“One of the great things:

their heart rate slows down

 

about a child’s love is thatg
it’s unquestioning and al-i,

plained.
“Dogs and cats are like
that too. They’re incapable

 

 

of holding a grudge."

ways there,” Dr. Harris ex-i

I
I
I
Q
l

\

3/87“; ﬂ. 6%; [35- j- 2 a. <51,

Radios aid wolf kill

Conservationists are questioning the use by
Alaskan Fish and Game officials of radio collar—
,sto facilitate the hunting of wolves from helicop-
’ters and airplanes. Using the radio collar proce-
dure or a practice known as “land and shoot"
gtrapping, hunters killed more than 1,000 wolves
in Alaska last year. .

In “land and shoot” trapping, hunters spot
wolves from aircraft, land, and shoot as many as
they can. Permits are available to any Alaskan
resident for $10. Defenders of Wildlife, 3 conser—
vationist group based in Washington D.C.,
claims the wolves are often chased by aircraft
until they tire, or are driven into a open area
where they can easily be shot. Estimates of the
wolf populatin range from 2,500 to 6,000. '

MEMPHIS COMMERCIAL APPEAL — 3/28/86

Pet rabbits

To The Commercial Appeal:

.Every year at this time, the Humane
Soc1ety begins a promotion to stop bun-
nies from being sold as pets.

.As a professional rabbit raiser . . . I
believe children should have the privi-
lege of owning a young rabbit. I have
seen spec1al children get a rabbit (rec-
ommended by their physician) to help
them learn to communicate and have
the love of a sweet, hearty rabbit. . . .
Did you know that children who have
had animals to love and the responsibil-
ity to care for them are less likely to get
involved in crime later in life?

. . . Animals help children to devel-
op their imaginations, feel love and

concern for an animal, and to grow up
as a child with happy memories.

CHRIS SHUMW
Memphis AY

 

 




SAN FRANCISCO CHRONICLE — March 21, 1986

 

A New Era in Pet Care

Analysts Going to the Dogs

Los Angeles

If the 1970s was the era of
the personal psychologist, the

1980s may be the decade of the ,

pet analyst.

It costs between $45 and $100 an .

hour to get these pet professors to
unleash their knowledge, but most
say they have no customer short-
age.

“lt’s a booming business,” said
consultant Sandy Miller of the Ten-
der Tutor in Los Angeles.

“People have extended the de-
sire for self-awareness to think
about the dog’s mind as well,” said
consultant Sally Pearce of Clare-
mont Dog Training.

When Miller first opened her
practice 13 years ago, there was lit-
tle competition and limited interest,
she said.

“The field has blossomed be-
cause the authenticity of these
problems which affect cats and
dogs has at last been recognized,”
said Dr. Michael Fox, scientific di-
rector for the Humane Society of
the United States, based in Wash-
ington, DC.

“The status of animals in soci-
ety has changed,” Fox said. “It’s not
a trend or fad, but it’s here to stay."

As a result, pet therapy is no
longer ridiculed, he said. The prices
might be, though, Pearce said.

Many callers, after asking
about fees, will say “forget it,” and
hang up or suggest she ‘do it for
free,” she said.

But those who can afford it and
consider their pets part of their
families don’t flinch at the price.

Thirty years ago, it was ‘gener-
ally felt that animals did not have
emotions and therefore couldn’t
have emotional problems,” Fox
said.

The veterinarian helped pio-
neer "ethology, the scientific study
of animal behavior, and expressed

his views in some of his early books,
“Understanding Your Dog” and
“Understanding Your Cat.”

If a rift arises between pet and
owner, pet therapists must deal
with both the animal and the owner
to solve the problem, Miller said.

Behavior therapy and obedi-
ence lessons also go hand in hand
because “before you can correct be-
havior you need structure,” she
said.

Fox compared pet partnerships
to parent-child relationships. In the
past, “the stick and discipline”
method prevailed, but “now there is
a greater sensitivity drawn into rais-
ing and educating children -- the
same with animals.”

But the counselors agreed that
in most Cases, people need therapy
more than their pets do.

“We actually psychoanalyze
the owners more than anything
else,” Miller said.

Pearce, who has a bachelor’s

degree in animal science and a mas- *

ter’s degree in biology, agreed:
“People tend to cause most of the
dogs’ problems. You can’t go into a
family situation and try to ‘fix’ the
dog without addressing the way the
family interacts with the dog.”

Few pet analysts have their de-
grees in psychology, but they say
the principles used in animal thera-
py mirror those applied to human
behavior.

The bulk of Pearce’s four-
legged patients are lonely or
spoiled, she said. They are either
left alone to run outside so are “neu-
rotic and crazy or (they’re) inside,
driving everyone crazy and literally
running their lives,” she said.

During a therapy session,
Pearce said she will watch how a
dog reacts to her —— if it’s suspicious
or friendly, whether it jumps
around, demands attention or just
rests. ,

At the same time, she listens to

the owner’s tone of voice and
watches to see how he or she han-
dles the pet.

“The basic principles I use in
treating behavioral problems have
been established in labs for years,”
pearce said.

Associated Press

 

 




THE HOUSTON POST - March 16, 1986

Plans for Playa Del Rio

hit wall of opposition
Barrier‘lslands Act may be biggest hurdle

By" HAROLD SCARLET]? \

Post Environment Writer

 

Playa Del Rio, the planned coastal resort that has
swallowed a former state park, is projected to be a
(8:;th bigger than nearby Brownsville, population

gl‘hat is, if it ever gets built. ‘

'. The ambitious 12,665—acre project, although still in
the conceptual stage, is running into a wall of opposi-
tion from fish and wildlife agencies and private envi-
ronmental organizations.

'But the biggest hurdle the project will have to
clear is probably the 1982 Barrier Islands Act.

The prime parts of Playa Del Rio would be on a
hurricane-prone barrier island that Congress has de-
clared off-limits to development — at least develop—
ment using any kind of federal funds.

Barrier islands covered by the law also are ineligi-
ble for federal ﬂood insurance, and this could be a
major blow to getting financing for the project.

About the only token of gov-
ernmental encouragement for
the project thus far is an op-
tion granted by the state’s
General Land Office to Playa
Del Rio Inc. The option is for a
long-term lease on the 216-
acre beachfront tract that
used to be the Brazos Island
State Recreation Area.

Land Commissioner Garry
Mauro said the GLO school
land was illegally transferred
to the Texas Parks and Wild-
life Department back in 1957.
So after a query from Playa
Del Rio, the GLO took back
the land and optioned it to the
private development.

 

MAURO:
Eyesfees

lAs Mauro sees it, if the project doesn’t pass muster '

environmentally, he has picked up an easy $40,000 in
option fees. Of that, $21,000 is for the park land and
$19,000 for about 200 acres of South Bay the develop-
ers_ also want for a boat channel.

Ironically, the former park is now the only part' of
Brazos Island that can be developed using federal
funds. It wasn’t included in the ’82 law because it was
considered already protected against development.

Although the parks and wildlife agency never got
around to developing the coastal park, TP&W’s re-
source protection chief ,- Susan Rieff, doesn’t want to
see Playa Del Rio develop the barrier island, either.

“This is a wetlands area, and this project absolute-

ly would have substantial environmental impacts,” .

Rieff said.

Rieff and other governmental officials have been
told a similar huge resort will be developed in Mexico
just across the Rio Grande from Playa Del Rio.

There are unconfirmed reports the Mexican proj-
ect will include a gambling casino, which would be
easily accessible to residents of the Texas resort via
two new bridges over the lower Rio Grande.

.‘;.. -...,.,.

Mauro said he also has heard the casino report but
doubts it is true. He noted Mexico has allowed no
casinos elsewhere.

Porchie Grady, president of Playa Del Rio, and
other ‘officials of the Brownsville development com-
pany did not return telephone calls about the project.

But a preliminary information packet, prepared
for governmental agencies, says the Texas project, ..
when completed over a 30-year period, would have
about 71,000 dwelling units in a “world class” resort.

Although hazard maps show the project will be
underwater if hurricane tides hit the coast, the pack-
et doesn’t indicate how ﬂooding would be controlled.

The sprawling project will have family homes,
apartments, condominiums and high-rise hotels.
There will be shopping and recreational centers, ma-
rinas, numerous golf courses, parks and nature pre-
serves and half a dozen sewage treatment plants.

3 main areas

Development will be clustered in three main areas
— Brazos Point on the northern part of Brazos Island,
Town Center on the coast just above the Rio Grande,
and Playa West, stretching inland along the Rio
Grande.

A ferry would link Brazos Point with South Padre
Island, and a Venetian-like network of canals would
tie together the three cluster developments. Canals
also would link the Rio Grande to South Bay, which
separates Brazos Island from the mainland. .

The canal linkup between the Rio Grande and
South Bay particularly disturbs John French, a U.S.
Fish and Wildlife Service biologist in Corpus Christi.

“South Bay is a hypersaline lagoon with a type of
oyster that has become highly resistant to high salini-
ties, and it can exist where most oysters die out,”
French explained. “The bay is open to oystering the
year round — which is unique in Texas — because

- there is no pollution.”

But the canal network, he said, will introduce both
pollution and fresh water from the Rio Grande into
the bay. '

“That’s very disturbing,” French said.

More than 8,000 acres of the 12,665-acre project are
wetlands that would be better left undeveloped, said
French, adding that the higher elevations in the proj-
ect site are equally sensitive environmentally.

These are lomas, clay dunes harboring unusual
plant life, he said.

French said his agency will have to oppose a
dredge-and-fill permit that the development must get
from the Army Corps of Engineers. The National
Marine Fisheries Service is expected to do the same.

Cindy Chapman of Weslaco, president of the Valley
area’s Frontera Audubon Society, said her group has
no alternative but to oppose the project.

“The project is just too vast, and the area’s too
sensitive,” she said.

DeDe Armentrout, southwest regional Audubon
representative in Austin, said the development would
be equally damaging to the wetlands and the lomas,
home to several endangered or threatened species. _

 




CHRISTIAN SCIENCE MONITOR - March 27, 1986

 

 

Victory for Maine’s wilderness, setback for paper company .

Loss of clout forces
ﬁrm tothink smaller

By Brook Larmer *
Staff writer of The Christian Science Monitor
. Millinocket, Maine
A bald eagle ﬂoats high above the West
Branch of the Penobscot River, searching
for salmon in the white-water rapids.
The majestic bird might not know it,
but his scenic habitat in northern Maine
has just been spared. Two weeks ago, the
Great Northern Paper Company, Maine’s

 

largest employer, abandoned its plans to ..

build a hydroelectric dam here after a
decade-long battle with sportsmen and

environmentalists. If it had been built, the '

dam at Big Amberjackmockamus Falls

would have ﬂooded one of New England’s,

most popular fishing and rafting areas;

Thirty miles ‘downriver in Millinocket,"

however, workers in Great N orthern’s pa-
per mills don’t feel quite asspared.

It’s not that building the dam at the so= . '
called? “Big A” falls would have, pre—_ .
vented massive job layoffs; even before

scrapping the plans, Great Northern

president Robert Bartlett said that up to '-

35 percent of the mills’ 3,900 jobs would
be phased out over the next few years -+_
with 'or without the dam. But to many

workers, the Big A dam represented their
last hope that? the; company had the ;

power to protect their jobs and mill-town
“habitat.” ' ‘

For many people, the dam’s defeat 'af-i“,
2 versity of Maine professor who has writ-
ten a history of the US lumber industry.

fects more than the b0unty of one mill
town or the beauty of one wild river deep

92‘;-

. 5:35;. ”I, .I .-'-" .,.,... . -".“ , “a“, M.......\.,,...r.. r-u- .... - ~ ( . ,,
Environmentalists and sportsmen have won a decade-long haul

in the Maine wilderness. ‘Environmental- ‘

istsI across ;.the nation consider it a sym-
bolic victory for every river that is threat-

ened in the United States. Dam supports
rers werry that put-ofestate investors may

be dissuaded by'Maine’s ’sticky regulatory

procf’ess.* , .

The failure of. the dam also shows the

_waning inﬂuence of Great Northern, a
company that has wielded enormouspo-I

litical and economic clout since it took
control of the West Branch of the Penob-
scot River at the, turn of the century.

_ “There have been times when they
"c0uld steamroller their way through [the
Legislature],” says David C. Smith, a Uni-

, _, . 5.2.31.0; . 3.
. _.“ . a. . q. '
. . “A .mMo.s_. r

“But in the last 15 years, Since their

merger with 'NeROOSa Redwoods, many

people have felt that they didn’t have as ,-
' much of the interestsin the state of Maine
at heart. . . ..There’s been a shift away

from the symbiotic relationship between

Great Northern and the state of Maine.

And the Big A defeat must fit into that.”

No one doubts that Great Northern still
shapes Maine’s political, economic -—- and
physical -— landscape. The company
owns more than 2 million acres, or about
twice as much land as the state of Rhode
Island.

It already operates 19 dams, most of
which create low—cost energy from the
Penobscot’s powerful current.

It has spawned Millinocket and East

e in Maine to preserve the natural beautyot the Penobscot River

Nb .

. Millinocket, two towns that would not

exist without the company’s mills. And
even as recently as 1983, Great Northern
ﬂexed its political muscle by getting legis-
lators to exclude its treasured West
Branch from a state law giving “wild,” or
protected, status to many state rivers.

Despite such strength, the company’s
plans for the Big A dam got knocked out
by the one-two punch of state politics and
international economics.

Within the state, the momentum
shifted against Great Northern last fall
when the company backed down on its
promise to preserve jobs, according to
Jeffrey Thaler, legal counsel for the
Maine Audubon Society and the Penob-

Please see DAM page 6

 




 

DAMfrompagea

scot Coalition.

Mr. Thaler says the groups had stirred public passion
with pleas for the river’s unique landlocked salmon
fishery and its stunning beauty. They had even crafted
economic arguments outlining alternative ways to save
the endangered jobs in Millinocket.

But Great Northern buried itself when it objected to
the job-preserving condition tacked onto the regulatory
permit. “All of the sudden people said, ‘Alright, the jig’s
up,’ ” Thaler says.

But Gordon Manuel, a spokesman for Great Northern,
says it was foreign competition -— not public opinion or
_ political obstruction —— that swayed the company’s
decision. ,

“Our company is facing intense competition on the
world market. We have got to modernize. We can’t stand
still. If we do, we won’t be around,” he says.

To keep up with the streamlined mills across the
Canadian border, Great Northern plans to reduce its
paper production from 840,000 tons to a core production
of 640,000 tons. Originally, Big A was to have generated
enough energy to sustain and expand present produc-
tion.

Though losing the dam and cutting production are
major blows to Great Northern, experts agree it is just
part of a cycle from which the company will rebound.
“I’ve always felt that the Great Northern Paper Com-
pany owns so much land and has so much invested that
it could take almost any reverse in stride,” says Profes—
sor Smith. ‘

But many people wonder about the survival of

 

 

 

East
Branch
Penobscot R.

MT. KATAHDIN

/

Millino/cket
a

Branch
Penobscot R.

:HVlS " NHOH AB‘THIHS

 

 

Millinocket, a town so tied to the lumber and paper
industry that even its McDonald’s has a woodburning
stove.

Local union leader Arthur Owens, who sided with
environmentalists in the fight against the dam, says the
town could be “a total disaster area” —— especially
because laid-off workers would have few places to go in
economically depressed northern Maine.

But that’s not the opinion of other millworkers gath-
ered in the C & J Restaurant, wheresawed-off logs make
for a rough-hewn wallpaper. One 23—year veteran in-
sists: “We’ll survive. We always have.”

 




OAKLAND, CA TRIBUNE - March 26, 1986

Breaking up is hard to do
for owners of guide dogs

‘I’m going to miss him (Lance), but it won’t be
as hard. The first dog IS always the hardest

to g1 V9 UP - Jill Gregerson

By John Miller
Tho Tribune.

PLEASANTON -- Jill Greger-
son, a Foothill High School junior,
knew the first day she got Lance
that she would have to give him up.

The lB-month-old golden retriev-
er had- lived with her since he was a
puppy. She praised him when he
behaved well, and scolded him
when he misbehaved. In short, she
loved him as any owner loves a pet.

But Jill has no regrets, no tears
at having to give up her dog 10 days
ago. She knows that he is needed for
more important work in his new
home. She knows he will become
the “eyes” of a blind person.

Lance is one of hundreds of ani-
mals trained by 4-H Club members
for Guide Dogs for the Blind, Inc. in
San Rafael. And Jill is one of nearly
500 4-H kids. in California who are
helping to train the dogs.

In addition to teaching Lance ba-
sic rules for living in -a home and to
obey simple commands, Jill said
her role with Lance for the last 1%:
years was also to “just give him a

he would have an accident. “He just
couldn’t take the stress and that

‘was his way of getting out of it.”

She said her first dog eventually
was given to a good home, but she .
decided not to find out where he is
now living. I

“I could have found out,” she}: 1
said, “but it would have been too
hard on me. He was like my own . ,,
pet and I had to treat the situation
as if he was dead, in a way, because
I would never see him again.”

She says because she’s already
been through the painful ordeal of
training a dog, growing to love it as

'her own and then having to give it

up, she doesn’t find it as hard to let

. go of Lance.

“I’m going to miss him,” she
said, “but it won’t be as hard. The
first dog is always the hardest to
give up.”

Jill said she hasn’t decided if she
will take on another guide dog
project because “my interests are
beginning to drift to other things,
like guys, and activities in school,
like sports and journalism.”

Jill swims on the Foothill High
School team and writes for the
school paper, “In Flight.”

She said she believes Lance will
make it through the advanced train-
ing program at the San Rafael
Guide Dogs for the Blind school be-
cause “he doesn’t seem to cower or
anything like that.” She said Lance
has been easy to train and has been
very little trouble around the house,
except for his penchant for picking
the lock on his kennel.

“He can flip Open the latch. on

lot of love and affection.”

Before Lance can be assigned to
a blind person, he must undergo
about six months of intensive train-
ing at Guide Dogs for the Blind be-
fore he is put through the final test.

And Jill hopes that Lance will do
better than the first dog she helped
train for the program.

“My first dog was a yellow lab, ”
she recalled the other day, “and he
made it all the way through train-
ing until his last week, when he
flunked out.”

Jill said when the animal was
scolded for some errant behavior,

 

 

By Angela Pancrazio/ The Tribune -
Jill Gregerson with Lance, the guide dog she trained for 18 months.

See GUIDE, Page 2

 




. his kennel,” she said, “but he just
runs around the backyard and
sits at the back door until some-
one lets him in. He’s never run
away.”

Jill said she will never forget
,the first time she witnessed a
graduation ceremony where 4-H
youngsters hand over their dogs
.to their new master or mistress
at the San Rafael guide dog
school

“The blind person gives a

{speech about what the dogs
mean to them in their lives,” she
said. “Some of the 4-H kids cry,
but mostly it’s a mixture of hap-
py and sad. It was really a touch-
ing experience and gave me a lot
of motivation”

Jill’s mother, Marty, said the
project gave her daughter a
sense of social responsibility and
to look beyond her own life and
well-being.

“It’s been a real good experi-
ence for her. It’s given her a
chance to learn responsibility. It
has helped her to give part of her
life to someone else who is nee-
dy,” Mrs. Gregerson said.

On April 6, about 100 4-H
youngsters from all over North-
ern California will hold their an-
nual “Guide Dog Day” at the
Sunol Center in the Hacienda
Business Park here.

The Hacienda officials donat-
ed the building after local 4-H
officials were unsuccessful in
getting the Alameda Fair man-
agement to waive the $400 use
fee for the fair’s exhibit building.

Carolyn Hunt has been super-
vising 4-H youngsters and their
guide dogs for several years, and
has trained a few herself. “I
think we ve had 45 dogs through
our house over the years,” she
said.

She can’t praise the 4-H
youngsters and their families
enough for taking the time to
help others.

“It’s a lot of work and it’s ev-

ery day,” she related. “This is
one project where the kids give
everything, including money,
food and upkeep. We have to
have a willing family because
it’s really the family’s donation
to guide dogs. And quite often,
it’s almost harder on the mother

7 than the child.”

She said the April 6 event will
include putting the dogs through
an obstacle-type course designed
to simulate everyday situations
a dog might encounter. It also
helps uncover areas which need
more training.

“One of my daughter’s dogs
wouldn’t go through turnstiles,”
Hunt said, “so she took him to
Berkeley with her and got him

used to the turnstiles at the li-.

brary.”

She said another time they
took a dog to a parade and some-
body set off a firecracker near-
by. “The dog nearly had a heart
attack,” she said.

Hunt said although some
youngsters find it difficult to
give up their guide dogs at the
end of their in-house training pe-
riod, that is not the most difficult
part for many 4-H members.

“The hardest part of the
project is when the dog fails,”
she asserted. “These kids are
like a mother with a baby. They
work so hard on it for a year or
more, and it can be really diffi-
cult on them if the dog fails.”

If a dog flunks out, the 4-H
youngster is given first priority
to adOpt the animal, according
to Paul Keasberry, in charge of
puppy placement for Guide Dogs
for the Blind, Inc.

If the 4-H member doesn’t
choose to adopt the animal,
Keasberry said there are plenty
of families waiting in the wings
to do so.

“We have a three-year waiting
list of peOple who want these
dogs,” he said, “and a great deal
of that interest is due to the fact
that they have been raised in a
loving 4-H home and have had

that family atmosphere.”

A total of 5,137 guide dogs
have been trained since the pro-
gram was started in 1942 as a

.way to help blinded veterans of

World War II. The program was
later expanded to include all
blind persons living 1n the United
States and Western Canada. A
few guide dogs have even been
sent to foreign countries, like Is-
rael, Keasberry said.

The 4- H clubs in California
have been working with Guide
Dogs for the Blind, Inc. since the

[early 19505. Club members in

eight western states participate
in the project and Keasberry
said their contribution is indis-
pensible.

“Without 4-H we would not be
able to run this program,” he as-
serted. “And they do it out of
their own pockets. There is no
way we could afford to do it. We
don’ t have the time, staff or
money. They do a super job. ” '

A fund-raising drive is under
way, and anyone wishing to do-
nate to the program may send a
contribution to Guide Dogs for
the Blind, Inc., PO. Box 1260,
San Rafael, CA 94915. The next
graduation ceremony will be
this Saturday in San Rafael.

 




Nhs. Constance F. Yarbrough
3149 King Arthur Court, N.E.
Atlanta, Ga. 30345

March 29, 1986

NAS

Editorial offices
950 Third Avenue
New York, NY 10022

Gentlemen:

Have been a supporter of the Audubon Society for more
years than I care to remember, despite your support of
”sport" hunting. Aside from that, you.have done a
world of good for our wildlife and land.

However, I must admit it came as something of a surprise
to read in the latest issue of NAS on the story about the
Condors, and I quotezp "The birds may swallow lead bullets
while feeding on deer carcasses left behind by hunters”.

I find that most interesting, as heretofore, eurything I
have read about hunters is that they only kill the animals
they want to take home fOr the meat, and if they do kill
a deer or other wild animal for the horns, they also take
home the meat, or see that it is not wasted.

This leads me to believe - even though I have never read
it any place — that there are literally hundreds of wild
animals who are shot, but who get away from the hunting
element to die in misery in the woods. we'll never know
for sure will we, because_that would really rouse the ire
of the public, and.we know the FGG Depts. are never going
to release any such information.

No, hunting fOr sport cannot be justified to anyone who
really loves our wild animals. we know these animals are.
being "managed" so there will be an abundance fOr the
hunter.

Sincerely,

GMrs.) Constance F. Yarbrough

 




Nks. Constance F. Yarbrough
3149 King Arthur Court, N.E.
.Atlanta, Ga. 30345

Robert K. Dawson

Civil WOrks

.Army Corps of Engineers
20 Mass. Ave., N. W.
‘Wash., DC 20314

Dear Nb; Dawson:
It is rather disconcerting to read.in my latest issue of Greenpeace

Examiner, that the wreck of the ferry A. Regina is still lying off
ana Island. ’.

I am surprised inasmuch as I had received a letter from Senator Sam
Nunn of January 24, enclosing a copy of a memo to him.from Charles A.
Oravetz of the US Dept. of Commerce National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Admn., National Marine Fisheries Service of January 10.

I quote part of this letter as follows:

"Mbeting was held on 1/8/86 with representatives from
the Corps of Engineers, Coast Guard, Dept. of Interior,
Justice Dept. and Commerce Dept.

”The consensus was that the Corps of Engineers does have
action for the removal of the vessel.

"The Corps of Engineers will be investigating their op-
tions for removal of the vessel.”

Surely by this time something is in the works to get this wreck re-
moved before it does any further damage to the area. I understand
this vessel has been off Mona Island now for over a year, shifting in

the waves and currents, destroying 3,000 square meters of a pristine
and precious coral reef. Debris on the beach is making an obstacle
course for thousands of endangered hawksbill, green and leatherback
turtles and the threatened loggerhead turtle.

Now I underStand that the Corps is refusing to act because it is their
position that the position of the wreck did not constitutethenavigable

waters specified.by Section 19 of the Rivers & Harbors Act of 1988.
IMy God, when is someone going to do something to save this area and
these animals? '

May I hear from.you please?

Sincerely,

(Mrs .) Constance F. Yarbrough
cc: Honorable Sam.NUnn, Mack Mattingly, Pat Swindall

 




OAKLAND, CA TRIBUNE - March 26, 1986

Such a deal: 1, 000 buffalo hides find a buyer

‘By Kathy O’Tool
The Tribune ,

BERKELEY -— Leo Shapiro found a
real bargain yesterday.

"Shapiro bought 1,000 abandoned water
buffalo hides for $4.50 apiece. To import
them from their native Thailand would
have cost him $20 each, estimated Shapiro,
a San Rafael tannery broker.

Few people have much use for this kind
of bargain, apparently. Shapiro had just
two competitors at a warehouse auction in
Berkeley yesterday to get rid of the stiff,
hairy skins.

' ﬁne of his competitors, Roger Chern,
“was willing to spend up to $4 apiece to send
them back to Asia. Chern said he

represented a Taiwan business that makes
the skins into'dog chewing bones. The ,
water buffalo is Southeast Asia‘s domestic
work animal. '

The hides were apparently imported
from Thailand by a company that skipped
town, said Bill Parks, a lawyer who
discovered the hides early this year when
he won the right in court to enter the Ashby
Avenue warehouse.

, His client, he said, had rented part of
the warehouse three years ago to a
L; company called Raufell. Raufell stepped
paying rent in August, so Parks went to
court to evict the unknown contents of the
warehouse. The law requires landlords to
_ publicly auction the contents belonging to

Tannery broker Leo Shapiro says the buffalo hides.

evicted tenants if the contents are worth
more than $300, Parks said.

Shapiro will send the hides to Delta,
Colo, where Western Tannery Co. will turn
them into moccasin leather, he said.
Traditionally, moccasins were made from
American bison hide, which is much
tougher than cowhide but quite expensive
now, he said.

Water buffaloes are not an endangered
species and can be legally imported to the
United States, said Ken McCloud, an
inspector for the US Fish and Wildlife
Service in Burlingame. The buffaloes’
bones are “imported daily” through Bay
Area ports too, McCloud said, for bone
jewelry.

will be shipped to Colorado to be turned into moccasin leather.

 




..
w

u
‘-
I

at)“

I
r 3?”?4
43$” ’

 

MEMPHIS COMMERCIAL APPEAL - March 27. 1096

S

k
g.
a’

b
. #%I'
:f" ’9”
n
#2334 q
:5," , a“: 1
‘22 é’lr‘k’

 

 

“361.;
e3

A morning Workout _

A red-tailed hawk, found in Mississippi and brought to the Memphis Zoo in
early January with a broken bone that apparently resulted from a gunshot, may
be freed within two weeks, said zookeeper David Hill. The mature bird started
to show signs of improvement about two months ago, he said. Hill and Knox

   

 

- By Fred Griffith

»
, .
I thY ,
theft?" 153'
‘ ‘1' l
I I {I
l ”5597?:

. .
at? «Aim: . .'
\ vnzixrﬂf at! w, . r . . M . . 5
“Wm xr' ’ ‘ r v u '~ a - 1 ’L’ ' ‘ “and” "'0' ‘ F"
:R‘V‘ﬂ ’ 13 . 2. '1’ r ‘r‘ M ' 'gfr‘ r .' ‘ «a, «5' ' n‘duz ‘vié‘m‘q:
. * 3 tilt-a“

L ' ,

. V} t» 13%" . ' ‘ . A u ' 41‘1”“ 5, ”(3211".
t»b§"i§.l '1“ ml. ' l' . r ' «a 7 . ”'1 3210 {3}};ng
rw ., ,Hn. . , I. . V . g . Wm?“ .7 4 (‘1
-a:.~r 1‘ - m or a njf’anv
A1 . . xé Q4 u r9 n ’«A
:1 7.39:), J .I w! ‘ , . -, l A r 3 [5% L ‘A L I: ‘1 I
", J“! 52!, ‘ I ‘3' “Std? , ‘ . i . ' £
. u .4 l . h A, warm .Hn'gi '1‘. ;..
a? - l . h an r 15!: n he: I)_ (h n
a n m'zgn I . an - . g ,~ g, n. j 591
‘("'- rl-u , u t a u ”Ab k h ' it
If n : (mum. t nu ‘
o 4b t) t 4
«ml was}: ~ - ,
Mfg U10 [1 c; r

‘rf’t‘r n

‘05 ‘9 n
e .. miliég.‘
1,} an q‘u 13;!
aim}: no re'é'u
1»;..~ru 3‘,
in"

I: ‘0 . n ‘Iﬁ x Q'
.4 ,tigé'IEﬁ‘Zt ) 'n by; 1-1;" I
"th a" waging: .Régdgm
'y .1 r .. @9033: *3” .,,..
. r . in 71
l

L":
' ‘J

‘1

m H
, or I"???
I _«‘\';1)

ill“:

 

Martin, a full-time volunteer in the bird section, come early to work almost every
morning to exercise the 'bird in Overton Park. They exercise it about half an
hour in the morning by attaching a fishing line and letting the bird fly short

distances.

 




812*‘H’SUNDAY EAGLE-TRIBUNE, Lawrence, Mass.-—-Sunday, March 2, 1986

Sea orphans sheltered at Aquarium

BOSTON (UPI) -- Sea mam-
' mals beached on dunes along the
' New England coast may strike
panic in the hearts of animal
lovers, but to Pat Fiorelli and her
animal-saving crew, they are just

‘ another mouth to feed.

Fiorelli, coordinator of the
New England Aquarium’s marine
‘ mammal stranding program, has
i taken in hundreds of lost sea
creatures in the past 11 years.

The latest tenants of the
aquarium’s “halfway pool” are
Amana, an 11-month-old hooded
seal found beached Jan. 10 in
Hull, Mass, and an adult male
saddleback dolphin, dubbed Silver
after being found Feb. 13 at Old
Silver Beach in Falmouth, Mass.

Amana, who will grow to over
500 pounds, eats about 25 pounds
of fish each day, 21/2 times what
each of the aquarium’s regular
herd of harbor seals consumes.

“Her appetite has been outra-
geous,” said Fiorelli. 36, who acts

Amona the hooded seal IS among Aquarium' 5 refugees

as mother, nurse and friend to the
sea orphans. “She is also in her
prime and growing like mad.”

The aquarium keeps several
enormous walk-in freezers packed
with herring, squid, capelin, whit-
ing and mackerel, she said.

Hodded seals are normally
found in the ice-packed gulf of the
St. Lawrence River. Fiorelli has

cooled the water in Amana’ 5 pool 1
to a “cold 50 degrees” to simulate ‘
her natural environment.

“I’m not entirely sure what
the water temperature is in the
St. Lawrence, but (Amana) does
fine in 50 degrees,” she said. “We
do have a special refrigerated
room for our (exhibit) penguins,
and we could use that if it be-
came very necessary.”

 

 

 

SAN FRﬂA/C‘ISCO
G HIPOIV/C LE;

ednesdcy, March 12 198s

The latest
Rage In Pets:
Llamas

BYDEBB/E SCHUPA CK

 

 

lamas rarely wind up on lists for birth-
day or anniversary presents, but thou:
sands of animal lovers around the country
are falling for their easy-to- please eating
habits and temperament. » -.

And if you 're the outdoors type, you
can have a home grown carrier for all that
camping gear.

“Their real appeal to animal loVers is
that they’ re so companionable and easy to
train, ” said Marcia Coit- Brock, who raises
eight llamas in Asheville, NC. “They’re not
spooky like horses or kind Of dumb like
cows.” a

Sam Granato, general manager for the‘
International Llama Association, estimated
there are about 10,000 llamas in the United
States, mostly in the West. But he said thé‘
animal, a member of the camel family, is
growing in pOpularity and in number.

The association’s llama census shows
,

States, Granato explained. -*

the number of lla-
mas in the country
increased from
3200 in 1982 to
about 8000 in 1985.
Granato said the
increase can be
partially attribut-
ed to more people
registering their
llamas with the as
sociation, as well
as an actual in-
crease in population.

Indigenous to South America, llamas
were first brought north by newspaper
magnate William Randolph Hearst in the
19305. Now, importation is prohibited be.-
cause the animals can carry hoof- and.’
mouth disease.

Llamas are a livelihood for many South
Americans, who use the animals for wool,
meat and packing, Colt Brock said. Al.

 

' though llama wool is of extremely high

quality, there is not sufficient quantity for
commercial production in the United

Economic investment is one factor in
the llama's increase in popularity, some
breeders said. The price of a female llama
has skyrocketed from about $400 in 1974
and $1000 in 1982 to current costs of about
$7000 or $8000. One female llama recently
sold for more than $50,000. '

The price of a male also has increased?
dramatically, from about $500 in 1982 to
current costs ranging from $1000 to $3000..

2 the camel family"

Michael Bleyman, director of a habitat
for endangered species of the third world in
Pittsboro, N.C., cautioned against buying

, the male llama for a pet, particularly on a
.very small farm or in the suburbs.

While the females are "extremely
sweet and docile and really quite lovely," an
unneutered male often becomes aggressive;
venting his anger by kicking with his front
legs or by an "annoying habit particular to
—of spitting.

intelligence, ease of care and good nal

‘ tured personality are the llama’s virtues
‘ most often cited by breeders. But the lla

ma 5 real niche' 15 with outdoors people.

“Basically they're a small, agile pack
animal that's wonderful for a three or four-
week trip,” Bleyman said. “They‘re sure-i
footed and they can live off the mountain
side, eating whatever they find on the trail:
side." ..
umrro PRESS

 




DETROIT FREE PRESS

Wecan’t stand by

and let our lakes die

By HARRY COOK
Free Press Editorial Writer

“THOUGH April showers may
come your way, they bring theflow-
ers that bloom in May”

Downwind from some smoke-
stacks, however, those showers also
bring pollutants, acid-laden gases and
particles. In sufficient volume and
over time, they . .
contaminate
ground and sur-
face water, cor-
rode your alumi-
num and wood
siding, kill bio-
logical and bo-
tanical ‘water
life and in gener-
al render the re- __
sources of na- " '
ture, which are C°°k ’
not of human origin or ingenuity,
victims of a careless human domin-
ion.

A smokestack rising over the
landscape belching effluent of one
sort or another is an obvious source of
pollution. Less obvious but just as
insidious are the millions of auto
exhaust pipes that carry harmful
pollutants from ill-tuned internal-
combustion engines. It is impossible,
of course, to link the exhaust pipe of
your car or the stack of a factory in
your town with a dead fish in some
northern lake. The evidence is only
circumstantial. But scientists have
shown that wilderness lakes hun-
dreds of miles from heavy industry or
heavy traffic have in their waters
chemical offal that can only have
been emitted by industrial smoke-
stacks and car exhaust systems.

IF YOU’VE ever stood quietly on
the shore of a northern Michigan lake
as the sun set on a calm, warm
evening, you have seen insects
swarming just above the surface of
the water and the occasional fish arc

out of the water for his buggy dessert. ‘

Likewise fish-eating birds circle and
swoop in for their share in the food
:hain. This is nature alive and at
work. ,

Stand on the shore of certain lakes
n the northeastern United States and
Canada until you turn to stone, and
JOU will see no insects, no jumping
"ish, no swooping birds. There is no

life to speak of in such bodies of
water. They have been acidified by
pollutant-saturated rain — acid rain.
They are, therefore, biocidal: able,
indeed, ready to kill life. The silence
that surrounds those lakes is entirely
unnatural. The woods around them
may be lovely, dark and deep, as
Robert Frost might observe; but the
serene lakes they frame are, in fact,
moribund.

Yet forests, too, are falling victim
to acid rain. Surveys by the natural
resources departments of several
Midwestern states have shown that
so-called dieback is occurring on the
foliage of common species of hard-
woods. The decimation of the forests
of Europe from industrial pollution 18
well documented. '

\

THE MAJOR source of airborne
pollutants that combine with precipi-

tation to make acid rain — or snow —,

are industries, notably utilities, that
burn fossil fuels, coal being the worst
offender. This is not to suggest that
some Lex Luthor-like villain is holed
up in a subterranean redoubt rubbing
his hands in glee as lakes turn to acid
and trees wither. The common
knowledge of acid rain and like
plagues that attend upon industrial
development has come relatively re-
cently It is not as if it were possible to
stop acid rain from falling tomorrow
by some legislative fiat.

Utility plants supply the power
and energy upon which we depend.
Even if today we could shut down all
the plants now emitting pollutants
that end up in acid rain, that rain
would continue to fall for some time
to come, and a lot of the damage of
previous rainfalls would be with us
for a long while — some of it indefi-
nitely.

Naturally, such industries are re-
luctant to change their ways, as such
change is extremely costly- Some
industries employ people full time to
find ways to deny the existence of
acid rain altogether and to blunt the
effect of scientific findings on the
subject. For a long time, concerned
environmentalists have run into the
proverbial brick wall with politicians
who have found it convenient, some-
times expedient even, to deny the
existence of a problem with acid rain.

March 18 , 1986

 

 

 

 

Photo by GERALD SKOR;

 

Scientists have sho wn that wilderness
lakes hundreds of miles from heavy
industry or heavy traffic have in their
waters chemical offal that can only have
been emitted by industrial smokestacks
and car exhaust systems.

 

A joint U.S.-Canadian commission
issued a report in January that goes
part of the distance in getting official-
dom to acknowledge the presence
and depredations of acid rain. That
report will be on the agenda of a
meeting today between President
Reagan and Canadian Prime Minister
Brian Mulroney in Washington. In
anticipation of that meeting, Reagan
let it be known last week that he has
reversed his policy of “Acid rain?
What acid rain?” In fact, the White
House said, the president will give a
guarded endorsement to'the report,
thus abandoning his oft-stated posi-
tion that more studies are needed.

 

The report calls for a $5 billion,
five-year program by the United
States to develop cleaner ways of
burning coal. That would be an im-
portant first step. Half of the $5
billion should be borne by the govern-
ment, the report says.

That’s a tough pill to swallow in
the era of Gramm~Rudman, but it is
medicine the United States desperate-
ly needs to take -— for the sake of the
health and welfare not only of the
forests primeval and the shining
Gitche Gumees, but of the people who
live and work and play in them and
around them.

 

 




 

 

Photos by Ron Riwtemr/The Tribune
is car in a Feb. 15 incident.

1minh

h

 

mg

mn

t bull p'

i

>37
E~
a)
3:314
20)“
“4.3V'
3Q?
50)
33—5
2D
.5:
513.
32% a
go :2:
@115“
ES:
.93.,
ch‘
45.03..
09‘
CD

 

An Oakland police officer looks wari

 




Continued from Page A-I

for whom a “macho” image is
important has reached the lev-
el that Doberman pinschers en-
joyed 10 years ago, Lear added.

Pit bulls, which include sev-
eral breeds and mixes, are get-
ting a “bad rap” for alleged vi-
ciousness, Lear said. Austra-
lian and German shepherds
probably snap at humans more
often, he said.

On the other hand, “it’s hard
._to say that many good things
about them, either,” said Lear,
who once owned a pair of them.

“They usually like children
.and can stand to have their
ears pulled without snapping,
for instance, the way a German
shepherd might. But once they
get excited, they are danger-
ous.”

He said he thought his dogs
were “really sweet” until the
growing male dog began estab-
lishing dominance over the fe-
male and frequent fights en-
sued. He put them to death.

Thirty dog bites were report—
ed to Oakland police in January
and about five were attributed
to pit bulls. But Lear blamed

the breed’s bite-incident rate
on their greater numbers, not
innate viciousness.

About 500 of the dogs, which
range from 70 to 100 pounds
each, were destroyed last year

in Oakland and the rate is going '

up, partly because no animal
shelter will adopt them.

Still, the police department
has taken no position on wheth-
er to ban the dogs, largely be-
‘cause such bans elsewhere be-
came mired in a debate about
just what is and isn’t a pit bull.

The Contra Costa County
Board of Supervisors ordered a
survey of dog-bite incidents
'last year with a view toward
banning the pit bull, but con-
cluded the definition problem
was too fuzzy to support a new
ordinance. They decided more
public education was the an—
swer.

“We came to the realization
that most bites were occurring
to owners or persons known to
the owners, usually on the own-
ers’ prOperties,” said Ted Bra-
sier, animal control chief in
that county.

In Oakland, patrol officers
have been wary of confronting

pit bulls running loose since Of-
ficer George Mate suffered a
serious bite a few years ago.
After the dog clamped down on
his thigh, he couldn’t beat it off
with his baton and had to shoot
the animal, suffering a broken
leg in the process.

When The Tribune responded
,to a pit bull incident on 8th Av- '
enue last month, an officer was
.held at bay in his patrol car by
a runaway dog that had al-
ready killed a cat and maimed
another dog. An animal control
expert had to come get the dog.

“Some experts say, ‘Take _

'2 ’em off the face of the earth,’
. but I don’t think that’s the an-

‘ swer,” Lear said. “For those

.. who know the breed. there’s no

, problem, but their bite is worse

3 because they don’t let go easi-
ly.’,

Under current city ordi-
nances, animal control officers .
can’t remove a dog from its
owner and put it to death unless
the owner agrees. A dog run-
ning loose can subject the own-
Ier to a $46 fine, but only if the
fanimal control officers actual-
lly see the dog on the run.

 

 

The dog had killed a cat, severely hurt a dog on 8th Avenue.

 

 

 




0f the five whoopers that trav-
eled south the first fall of the experi-
ment, none is alive.

StUdy, like crane, a 1 Only one of the 1976 crop of

; whoopers is alive, two remain from

THE TAMPA TRIBUNE—TIMES, Sunday, March 23,1986

1’ 1978, three from 1979 and one from

faces eXtinction

7 high whooper mortality has been
collisions with power lines in the San
j. Luis Valley. The power lines criss-
_ cross the high valley, providing elec-
tricity for abundant sprinkler sys-

The ultimate goal of the experiment —— to
establish a breeding population of whooping

{Cranes -,-- has not been realized after 11 years. 1 tems used for agricultural irrigation.
Only 30 whoopers remain in the wild flock and
success is not predicted.

t _

l The cranes spend about a month
in the valley, drawn by the wetlands
of two wildlife refuges and the grain
they can graze on. .

( The Fish and Wildlife Service

In 1975. the two countries began \_ grows some of the grain for the

ﬂy BRAD SMITH

United Press International

, MONTE VISTA, Colo. — A bold
"biological attempt to start a second
wild flock of the stately whooping
crane has yet to succeed after 11
years and is, like the bird itself, fac-
ing extinction.
. The stark white whooping crane
is North America’s tallest bird, mea-
suring about five feet tall.

It was never abundant, but be-
fore Europeans colonized the conti-
nent itnumbered about 1,400 birds
and was found from the Atlantic sea-
board to west of the Rocky Moun:
tains. ~

Settlers moving west destroyed
the big bird’s marsh and prairie
habitat.

The shy crane was seen less and
less, until only 21 whoopers were
known to exist in 1937. Fifteen of
those spent their winters along the
Texas Gulf Coast and the other six
were in southwestern Louisiana. The

Louisiana flock was gone by the .

early 19405.

The government began a major
effort in 1937 to save the whooper
from extinction, establishing the
Aransas National Wildlife Refuge
near Austwell, Texas, providing the
birds legal protection and warning
the public to be careful of them.

That attempt has been the big-

gest success story for government
conservationists, because the flock
now numbers 96 birds and could
reach the psychological milestone of
100 this summer.

The US. Fish and Wildlife Ser-
vice and the Canadian Wildlife Ser-
vice have worried that the flock
- could meet with disaster, particu-
larly because the whoopers migrate
2,400 miles over increasingly popu-
lated country from their nesting
grounds at Wood Buffalo National
Park near the Arctic Circle to the
Gulf C035:

3 periment —
‘ population of whoopers —- has not

an experiment to establish a second,
independent flock of wild whoopers.
Heading the program was Dr. Rod
Drewien, a biologist at the Univer-

'sity of Idaho who had worked many

years with migratory birds and was

'an expert on the whoopers’ cousin,
the sandhill crane.

Drewien’s plan was to take eggs

from the whooping cranes’ nests in

Canada (they usually lay two, but

.normally only one survives) and
place them in the nests of greater
gsandhill cranes at Grays Lake,
Idaho.

The sandhills, which also have

‘ made a biological comeback, mi-

grate only half the distance as the
whooping cranes and much of it is
over wild country.

Over the years since 1975, there

have been some successes in the ef-
fort.

The sandhills have accepted the

whooper chicks as their own and
_ have taken the whoopers on the an-

nual migrations to the Bosque del
Apache refuge in New Mexico. A lot

?: has been learned about crane biol-
ogy and behavior.

But the ultimate goal of the ex-
to establish a breeding

been realized after 11 years. In addi-
tion, some unforeseen circum-
stances have resulted in a very high

mortality rate among the whoopers.

The whooping cranes, and their

sandhill foster parents, stop at the.

San Luis Valley of southern Colo-
rado each year on their migratory
cycles.

This year the spring migration
began in early March and there
were 30 whoopers scattered among
the 15,000-or-so sandhills in the val-
ley. Another whooper died March 13
at the Rio Grande Zoo in Albuquer-
que, N.M., from an unknown illness.

cranes and some of it is left by the
I farmers.

The cranes feed by “hopping”
from field to field during the day.
Flying low over the fields in bad
weather, they sometimes can’t avoid
the power lines and are injured or
killed.

Other whoopers have died after
becoming entangled in barbed wire,
from fowl cholera or from ingesting
lead. A whooper named Corny, a
celebrated bird among the 1975
flock, mysteriously disappeared in
the San Luis Valley in 1982.

The unaccounted-for lack of fe-
males among the transplanted
whoopers is a second unforeseen
problem. ..

Female whoopers have to be 5 or
6 years of age before they begin lay-
ing eggs. This winter there were just
two known females of that age, and
one of them apparently was
wounded by a gunshot in New Mexi—
co.

 

I Drewien, who migrates each
:year with his whoopers, said one
gmajor question in the transplant pro-

’gram is whether the whooping
cranes identify with their sandhill

foster parents rather than their own

kind and if that hampers their sex-
ual development and mating.

But he said there is evidence the

5-whoopers recognize each other and

actually seek each other’s company.

In late 1988 or early 1989, the
two government agencies will get to-
gether to decide whether to cominue

; the program, Drewien said.

l
l
l
1
1
l
i
1

He hopes there will be a breed-

: ing pair of whoopers by that time,
i! but if there isn’t he said he can ac-
cept an end to the experiment.

“What the final outcome will be,

T, I’m uncertain,” he said.

 




 

 

“To be candid, I’d almost ﬂip a
coin. My feeling is there is about a
.60 percent chance of it working, ver-
sus a 40 percent chance of it not
working. There are just so many
things that could go wrong,” he
added. _

If he had it to do over again,
Drewien would put more eggs into
more sandhill nests, hoping to in-
crease the chances of larger num-
bers of birds reaching the mating
age. ..

“From a biological standpoint, I
would like it to work,” Drewien said
of the experiment. “I’d like to see
another population of wild whoop-
ers. That moves us that much fur-

ther along to saving them.”

 

 

UPI photo

hown at Monte

mg cranes, s

parents for the dwindling white whoop

Sandhills cranes are used as foster

Vista, Colo., but the breeding program seems doomed to failure.

 




 

THE DENVER POST - March 16, 1986

Pit bull face- lift

  Owners trying to soften image

By the Los Angeles Times

SOUTH EL MONTE, Calif. -
For the pit bulls, the haul was
only 15 feet. For their owners, it

A has been considerably longer and
. it is not over yet.
' ‘ Since 1977 the American Pit
Bull Terrier Club of Southern Cal-
" ifornia has been waging war
" against pit bull owners who
' match the animals in fights, and
against the popular image of the
dog as a vicious, lethal weapon
bred to fight to the death.
. Owners who raise dogs for
fighting are barred from mem-
bership, and any members dis-
covered to have been associated
with dog fights or even facing
dogs off in a test are kicked out
with no possibility of reinstate-
ment.
- ' “These dogs can be trained not
to react in that way,” said club
member Pat Goodman. “A dog
will do anything to please its
. owner. A responsible owner is in
' total control of his dog.”

Owners hold bait

At one of the club’s regular
shows recently in South El
Monte, about 15 miles east of Los
;," Angeles, one event was -a weight
, pull, “simply a show of stren ”
A for the athletic dogs. Each ani-

‘f mal had to pull a 100—pound cart

‘: plus a weight of at least 50 pounds
,‘j for 15 feet.

n: Strapped into harnesses at-

» tached to the carts, the pit bulls

3:

: ¢<
4

u . ~ :

f 4.

jumped and strained against the

. load to reach their owners who

held a “bait” — often their favor-
ite toys. Baits must be inanimate
objects - a basketball, brooms,
towels, even a motorcycle tire.
Some dogs, however, have been
trained to pull on a simple verbal
command.

When the grunting and groan-
ing was over, Aki Oni, owned by
Lloyd Drain and Jill Schuster
pulled the most weight -- 1,050
pounds.

About 50,000 pit bulls are regis- -
tered annually in the United
States by the United Kennel Club
alone. Shows have improved the
increasingly popular breed’s im-
age, Goodman said, and children
played and handled man of the
dogs in the recent competition.

Muzzles required

Several cities, however, do not
trust them with anyone, and San-
ta Monica has adopted an ordio
nance requiring pit bulls to be
muzzled when they are on public
streets.

The club’s 100 members bristle
at such restrictions, and statistics
from Los Angeles’ Animal Regu-
lation Department show only a
slight difference in the frequency .
of pit bulls and German shep-
herds biting people.

“A pit bull is slightly more like-
ly to bite a human being than a
shepherd,” said Meyer Levine, an
administrative assistant with the.

 

 

 

..... ”3%?“ .‘
' Los Angeles Times

 

‘ Wild Honey strains against 500 pounds in ‘show of strength.’

 

5‘2..va "x' ‘

 

   

Lisa Gomer shows no trepidation over the pit bull’s reputation.

department. “Dogs aren’t born to and that’s the irresponsible dog

be killers, but any dog can be
trained to kill.”

“So many cities are trying to
outlaw these dogs,” Goodman
said. “You don’t get rid of crime
by getting rid of the victim. You
have to get rid of the criminal,

owner. That goes for any breed.”

It may come as a surprise to
generations of Americans who
grew up on "Our Gang” comedies
to learn that Pete, the hapless
pooch with a black ring around
one eye, was a pit bull.

 

 

TAMPA TRIBUNE 3/19/86

Heimlich:
Dog tests
unneeded.

CINCINNATI (AP) — The de-
veloper of the Heimlich maneuver
for rescuing choking victims says
animal-rights activists performed a
service when they protested a plan
to test the maneuver by subjecting
dogs to near-drownings.

It would have been cruel and un-
necessary to perform the proposed
experiment, in which 22 dogs would
have been nearly drowned to see if
the Heimlich maneuver is effective
in aiding people who are in danger
of drowning, said Dr. Henry J. Heim-
lich. ‘

“The whole thing was ill-advised,
inaccurate and has no value to
humans,” Heimlich, 66, of Cincin—
nati, said Sunday.

After public outcry from animal-
rights activists, Dr. Richard Melker
of the University of Florida decided
to forgo his request for $18,000 from
the American Heart Association to
perform the dog experiments.

Melker originally had wanted to
experiment on 42 dogs, but scaled it
back to 22 after Heimlich wrote 3
Feb. 5 letter of protest to University
of Florida officials.

Heimlich says data is available
to demonstrate, that the Heimlich
maneuver should be used on a near-
drowning victim, if there is no re-
sponse to mouth-to-mouth resuscita-
tion, because it forces water out of
the lungs.

The maneuver involves pressing
on a victim’s abdomen, just below
the rib cage and diaphragm, to force
air back up the victim’s airway.

Heimlich is a professor of ad-
vanced clinical sciences at Xavier
University in Cincinnati and is presi-
dent of the Heimlich Institute, a re-
search center based there.

 




 

ATLANTA JOURNAL - March 25, 1986

 

After 50 years, brown pelican stages historic comeback

By Hal Straus
Staff Writer

 

After an absence of 50 years, brown
pelicans are nesting again in Mobile Bay.
And along the Atlantic Coast from Flori-
da northward through Georgia and the
Carolinas, the big-beaked birds are turn-
ing up in record numbers.

, With 60 plants and animals added to
thenation’s list of endangered species in
the past year, the brown pelican enjoys a
special distinction. It is the first creature
ever removed from the list because of re-
covery.

Hard hit during the 19603 and ’703 by
DDT and other pesticides, the pelican
population along the southeast Atlantic
and Gulf coasts was estimated at no
more than 15,000.

Recent wildlife surveys now show
hundreds of pelicans in North Carolina,
where 10 years ago there were none, and
up to 5,000 nests in South Carolina, more
than four times the count in 1969.

Throughout the Southeast and Gulf
coasts, the number of pelicans now is es-
timated at more than 30,000 -— plentiful

enough for the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Ser-
vice to lift its endangered classification.
Because the recovery has been less ro-
bust elsewhere, it is still officially endano
gered in Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi and
California.

For beachgoers and birdwatchers, the
pelican’s recovery simply may mean they
will be treated more often to the comic
sight of the ungainly birds diving like
stones into the surf in search of fish,
soaring on air currents along the shore or
waddling flat-footed across the beach.

But for conservationists, the recovery
is a milestone of sorts — a strong indica-
tion that the. 14-year.old federal ban on
DDT and other pesticides has had a posi-
tive effect. .

“The brown pelican is a very sensi-
tive environmental monitor, kind of like
the canary in the mine shaft,” says Ted
Joanen, who manages a growing flock of
the birds at Louisiana’s Rockefeller Wild-

life Refuge. “The fact that it seems to be-

recovering is a good sign for the whole
coastal ecology.”

The cause of the pelicans’ demise
varied according to location.

In Louisiana they were decimated by

pesticides such as endrin in the 19503 and
’605. The pesticides, used on cotton and
sugar cane fields, were washed down the
Mississippi and other rivers into salt
marshes and mangrove swamps along the
coast, where they accumulated in the
food chain. Pelicans, exposed to the pesti-
cides in their food, died as a result.

In California and South Carolina,
large amounts of DDT, magnified by the
food chain on which the pelicans depend-
ed, caused the birds to lay eggs with thin-
ner shells, which kept the birds from re-
producing efficiently.

“In some parts of the range -- Flori-

da, for example -- the impact of DDT,

and other pesticides was never all that
drastic,” says Richard Ingram, a biologist
at the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service

In some states, the recovery has been
surprisingly swift. Joe Meyers, a wildlife
coordinator for the Alabama Game and
Fish Division, says the first nest was
spotted in Mobile Bay in 1983. Because

the species hadn’t established a rookery.

in the area in 50 years, no one got their
hOpeS up.

The next year, however, there were
four nests. Last year, there were 30.

 

 

  
 
 

 

 

u-
.....

    
 
  

 

‘ r ,t‘v . _ .~ ‘3
’ \‘ 51' .2 r!" ‘~"' ,,.
n v I". . ’5‘] f;
.. .HV ,5, ..
‘w s . ' .1. w 5.
. i" ">4‘$l“ .
. .. . , 5k . _ ,. n _
- ,‘ . ,yﬁfz'ﬁﬁzx; ‘. - 293%.”; m. «are»: 5.5... 44.; ,r -
’ "a.“-.~‘v’~tw“‘-‘ f»-‘,1?i'fl'~".¢7r s 4 , ‘ . r

.
a

MILESTONE: Recovery of brown
pelican indicates ban on DDT has had
positive effect, conservationists say.

 




TAMPA TRIBUNE — March 22, 1986

Easter pets

They’re cute but aren’t always the best gift

By REBA GRIFFITH
Tribune Staff Writer

Floppy-eared bunnies, featherless baby ducks, tiny
teetering chicks —— such are the animal world’s endear-
ing harbingers of spring, the gentle signs of new life
promised at Easter.

The commercial world takes full advantage of our

wispy hopes for the warm new season.

But animal humane advocates are asking consumers
to think twice before buying a cute pet that is not really
welcomed when it grows up.

“Small and fragile, baby animals often are mishan-
dled or unintentionally abused by young children," said
Shelley Delperdang of the Humane Society of Tampa
Bay.

“Many baby animals suffer or die from neglect
within a few weeks because few people are prepared to
provide the special care and feeding these delicate ani-
mals require. - . ,

“Baby chicks need an ideal temperature of 101 de-
grees to maintain good health in the first few weeks of
life.”

Pet store owners have “Easter animals” on sale this
weekend. Hundreds of infant rabbits, ducks and chick-
ens will be sold over the weekend and on through East-
er, according to several local pet shop owners.a_\

Pat Leibfried, manager of Creature Castle in Bran?“

don, disagrees that owning “Easter pets” is cruel.

Mallard ducks'sold at her store can be released on
local ponds and live happily, she said.

“People have to be well-informed of what they’re
getting into,” Leibfried ’said.

“We have a duck who lives at our house in the back
yard, and enjoys our swimming pool.”

Rabbits, she said, are becoming increasingly popular
household pets because they can be house trained like
cats and dogs. ‘ '

Indoor rabbits are the most popular new pet in New
York City, she said. a

“They love to be stroked and patted, and they're

‘ trainable,” she said. “You can buy them in breeds which

will grow anywhere from 3 to 20 pounds.”
Leibfried says she informs customers of the proper
care of animals before they purchase them.

Valetta Norris of the Hillsborough County Depart-
ment of Animal Control says the novelty of a pet chick
or duck often diminishes as it grows older. Hundreds
needlessly end up at the animal shelter several weeks
after Easter. If they aren’t adopted, they are put to
death.

Norris said warnings about animal cruelty are aimed
at consumers.

“We’re not trying to attack the sellers,” Norris said.
“We’re just asking consumers to be careful. Often people
will buy a duck, and not realize it grows up to be an ugly
duckling.”

 

 

Tribune photo
Baby chicks, such as this one, ducks and bunnies are papular
gifts this time of year, but animal humane advocates say
consumers should think twice before they buy one.

 




 

 

 

- . .c

.uoo .-.v ...a

u..-‘ o... ..-.

nu.....op..;o‘.~
o

 

 

(ES To

..ooc-o... n».
c

‘ LEGS

SSNESS ON BONES 1

STA Y5 6A3? 6L9

.u~¢n
o c

.
.c
o

UNIVERSITY
OF
FLORIDA .’

IOIc0000uO

.uo-

ENMPA TRIBUNE - March 24, 1986

Editorial page

us. ca.-

Incl...-

.m
mp
CC
W
F
O
S
H
mm
6
T!
m
m.
mm
Tt
N.
O
M
3

n.-.--- -

uv.c-.
ac tuna; no.
0‘. ca;-

o-q. no...

0
m
H
0.“.
E
W
V!
ab
8
M
KL
ro
w
m
A
H
m
w
R
0.
W
W
S
E
on
Cr
U

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

~rl m D'"“‘"‘*'G 7V“ _)
. . g 1, ~ 7 A .
“ 3‘“- 5’5 Mﬁfﬁtﬁri’dﬂnwzwﬁrm ~ u . . , . ;
. , .1 _ . ., Tux .~ . 1- Av“; 9' {who ‘v; ‘1'? ‘ ‘3, .,:.. _ ‘ ,..~i;p,»i,‘:; ‘

When 'Is One Sea Lion
Worth Three Tigers?

When New England ’5 zoos start trading
fbr the animals they really want

EREFT OF one of its two

beluga whales, the Ma—

rinelife Aquarium, in

Mystic, Connecticut,

.. seemed as incomplete as
Fenway Park stripped of its left-ﬁeld
wall. Nanuk, the portly mammal who
bobbed in the whale tank, had waved
his ﬂippers, spit, and rolled over for the
last time. Now it was the aquarium
staff’ 5 job to replace him, and quickly.
“But you can’t just go out and catch

a whale,” explains Laura Kezer, the
aquarium’s director of community re—

 

lations, who knows about such things.
Kezer, who has helped capture a dozen
of the quarter-ton mammals, is part of
an elite versed in the acquisition-ofun—
usual creatures for New England’s
aquariums and zoos. “It takes a while,”
she says. “There are regulations.” In-
deed, those who make a living by pur-
chasing penguins, unloading giant lob-
sters, or settling gorillas in the suburbs,
are the zoological equivalent of base—
ball general managers: they purchase
talent, they make swaps, they raise
and train future stock, and they even

 

make deals for players to be named
later.

Zoological traders often begin their
search with the newsletter of the

_ American Association of Zoological

Parks and Aquariums, which lists the
free agents and reserves of the animal
kingdom. There, they learn that a zoo
in Omaha, Nebraska, is willing to give
away a Malayan sun bear, but would
like to trade twelve elegant-crested
tinamous and a two-year—old jaguar
for a pair of white-handed gibbons in
the blond phase. Elsewhere, some-
thing ‘could be worked out with Los
Angeles for its swamp wallaby and
brindled gnu — perhaps a three-way
deal involving a breeding loan of De-
troit’s black rhinoceros, or ownership
of Phoenix’s six black-billed whistling
ducks.

 

ILLUSTRATION 0 ED KOREN

 

 

 

 

 

 

NEW ENGLAND MONTHLY

 

 

 




 

 

 

Other common acquisitions are
stranded animals, usually seals or dol—
phins, or rare tropical birds seized by
airport police before they hit the black
market. Zoo traders, however, won’t
take just anything. “These days we
limit ourselves to what our facilities
can handle,” says Paul Sieswerda, of
Boston’s New England Aquarium.
“The stamp-collecting days for zoos
and aquariums are over.” But all zoo
directors have at least one animal pas-
sion for which they will go to great
lengths. For Sieswerda, it’s the orca, a
$250,000 killer whale he calls the
“charismatic megavertebrate” of the
ocean — and which is too big to ﬁt in
his aquarium’s tanks.

CROSS TOWN, Richard G.
Naegeli, director and curator
of Boston’s metropolitan 200

system, hankers for gorillas. Thirteen
years ago, when Naegeli expected the
Franklin Park Zoo’s Tropical Forest
pavilion to be open in time for the 1976
Bicentennial, he arranged first refusal
for a pair of baby gorillas from the
Cincinnati Zoo. In 1978 he talked mil-
lionaire car dealer Peter Fuller of Mar—
blehead into donating $50,000, and to—
gether they ﬂew to Cincinnati to adopt
the infants, named Sam and Gigi. Un-
fortunately, because the Franklin Park
Tropical Forest is still unfinished, Sam
and Gigi are residing at the Stone Zoo
in Stoneham, Massachusetts. Their
first son, Quito, has moved to the Mil-
waukee Zoo to start a family. Their
second, Kubando, is already hanging
out with Kiki, a young female brought
up from the Philadelphia Zoo. And
Sam and Gigi are expected to mate
again this spring. By the time the
Franklin Park facility finally opens,
Naegeli’s gorillas may be grandparents.

UT Naegeli’s problems are

small compared to Mystic’s

task: catching a replacement

beluga in the wild. For help, the

aquarium turned to a professional

outﬁt in Churchill, Manitoba, called

Nanuk Enterprises, run by a Canadian

Indian namedjohn Hicks and his seven
brothers.

“They charge seven thousand dol-

lars a whale,” reports Kezer, who

 

 

 

 

 

traveled to Churchill last summer for
the catch. Every morning for a week,
Hicks led a ﬂotilla of canoes containing
Kezer, several other aquarium staff
members, Canadian fisheries officials,
and a film crew from National Geo-
graphic up and down the Churchill
River, where the thirteen—foot belugas
bask like giant sea-sausages. Upon

sighting an appropriate, healthy 600—

pounder, Hicks chased it into shallow
waters and ordered one of his brothers
(ofﬁcially designated “whale jumpers”)
to leap out and subdue the catch. As the
other canoes converged on the mam-
mal, the crew rolled it over, deter-
mined its gender, and approved it for
capture.

Over five days, the crew took ten
such whales in large stretchers back to
Churchill, where they were run through
blood and belligerence tests. Five of
them (two for Mystic, three for the
National Aquarium in Baltimore)
were accepted. The naturalists packed
their booty in wooden crates lined with
foam rubber and wet bed sheets, and
coated the mammals with Crisco (“We
used to use lanolin,” says Kezer, “but it
was too expensive”). Then they hoisted
the whales aboard a chartered 737 and
sprayed them continuously with water
throughout the three—hour ﬂight to

' New York and the two-hour refriger—

ated truck trip to Mystic.

you’ll see Four and Ten, the two
hastily named belugas, bobbing
beside Aurora, Nanuk’s old mate. But
you won’t find. the snipers and bluefish
in the aquarium’s long-running New
England Fishes exhibit, because
they’ve been sent to Oklahoma City in
consideration for a ﬁature trade. And
the omery sea lion named Domino that
used to live here has been exiled to
Moscow (his name, of course, has been
changed to Dimitri). It was a complex
deal, involving the acquisition of three
Soviet Siberian tigers to offset a few
inbreeding problems in various Amer—
ican zoos. “Frankly, we were kind of
glad to see Domino go,” says Kezer.

“He caused some trouble. ”

A nasty sea lion for three rare tigers?

If only the Red Sox could trade so well.
—— William B. Parent

It You TRAVEL to Mystic today,

L_____._,

 

 

 




THE TAMPA TRIBUNE - March 23, 1986

Lone warrior carries the torch
in fight to protect animal rights

Raini Sequoya spearheaded the
drive for more humane euthanasia
of unwanted animals and founded
a national animal rights group.

By BETTINITA HARRIS
Tribune Staff Writer

This much Raini Sequoya knows -— his life will end
with the crack of gunfire. Not by accident, but by inten-
tion.

Maybe it’s all of those threatening telephone calls he
has received that makes this knowledge seem like an un-
tamed mass wallowing in the pit of his gut.

“I know. I just know,” said Sequoya, founder and
president of the National Animal Rights Inc. “It’s my
destiny.”

Sequoya says his violent end will come because of
time he’s served on the fighting front for animal rights.

“If 50,000 people see me as a kook and only 20,000
people see me as a savior or whatever— I don’t care,”
Sequoya said. »

“I have the courage of my convictions and that’s
very important in life — not to give lip service to
things,” Sequoya said. '

“If you really believe in something, then damn it you
find a way.”

Perhaps it is Sequoya’s fanatical devotion to animal

rights that has earned him more than his share of critics
— many who did not want to be quoted in this article.
. Some of those critics have been known to call Se-

quoya names and attack his character.
, “They are all lies,” Sequoya said calmly after he was

asked about the name-calling. “They resort to name—call-
ing and rumors when they know what they have to say
on the issues won’t hold up under public scrutiny.”

<><><>

Sequoya stands about 5 feet 5. His build is slight; his
hair is neatly combed.

He doesn’t like talking about himself. He’d rather
discuss the animal rights movement or his American In-
dian heritage. ' .

“Who Raini Sequoya is is not important,” said Se-
quoya, who puffed on cigarette after cigarette. “The
movement is what’s important.”

Slowly, however, he began talking about the life of
Raini Sequoya.

Sequoya’s mother disappeared shortly after her hus-
band was killed in the second world war.

He lived with his grandparents in New England. His
grandmother never talked about her daughter, Se-
quoya’s mother. Sequoya never asked.

During those early years, it was commonplace to see
a young Sequoya struggling to rescue injured animals
and bring them home.

“My grandmother and I would try to make
them well again,” said Sequoya, now 42. “And
then we would set them free, where they be-
longed.” . . ‘

Sequoya wanted to be a veterinarian, but he
abandoned the idea when he reached his teens.

“I would not have made a good vet,” said Se-
quoya, who was named Raini because he was
born on a rainy day.

i “If someone brought an animal to me that he
had neglected, I would not give the animal back
to that person. Plus, 1 wouidn’i have it in my heart
to charge people to take care of injured animals."

Sequoya continued rescuing and caring for
stray animals while he worked at his grandpar-
ents’ motor home manufacturing company. .

He and his former wife moved to Tampa in
1971, where today he carries on his grandmoth-
er’s legacy. ~ ,

“She told me, ‘If you ever pick up the torch for
a cause, always hold that torch high,’ ” said Se-
quoya, who lives off a trust fund his grandmother
established. “ ‘No matter how tired your arm be-
comes, never waver.’ ”

Tribune photo by FRED FOX
Raini Sequoya gestures to make a point as he discusses the

plight of animals. .

$1:

 




In 1980, Sequoya picked up that torch of which
his grandmother had spoken. He challenged the
_ use of decompression chambers to destroy ani-

mals at the County Animal Control center and the
County Humane Society.

The decompression chamber was a chamber
of horrors, Sequoya said. '

It was a small machine, much like a commer-
cial heavy-duty washer. Unclaimed stray animals
-were loaded into those machines. Death came
when air was slowly sucked from the animals’
lungs. ‘

“Young puppies and kittens that didn’t have
developed lungs sometimes had to go through the
process two or three times before they died,” Se-
quoya said.

Sequoya studied the issue, talked with experts
and mounted a four-month campaign to abolish
the chambers in favor of sodium pentobarbital.

“I remember on one occasion it was raining
out,” Sequoya said. “I called everybody who had

been supporting the issue to ask them to go down“

to the courthouse to picket again.

“They thought it was a lost cause. So, I went
down to the courthouse by myself.”

County Commissioner Jan Platt said Sequoya
was successful because of his ability to get top
professionals to state the facts about humane
euthanasia. , ,

“He is a determined individual who deals ona
factual basis in the issues he supports,” Platt said.

Sequoya’s determination, Platt says, has made
a difference. .

. He helped win the battle against decompres-
sion chambers -—- they were outlawed in 1980.
Then he and others pushed for a sterilization

program, which was enacted; it offers pet owners
a rebate on rabies tags if pets are sterilized. At Se-
quoya’s urging, the penalty for cruelty to animals
was increased from a third-degree to a first-de-
gree misdemeanor.

“He has been a positive force in the com-
munity in looking out for the welfare of animals,”
Platt said.

Doug Porter, superintendent of Tampa’s
Lowry Park Zoo, agreed.

“We are working the same side of the fence,
but we use different tactics,” Porter said. “The
work he’s done has generally been good for the
animals. But I don’t always agree with the way he
does it.”

Not everyone thinks what Sequoya and others
have done in the name of animal rights will bene-
fit humanity.

“Even though their intentions may be good,
the progress of the animal rightists toward their
goal can only be measured in terms of human
misery,” said Dr. Ray Olsson, a senior researcher
at the University of South Florida who regularly
uses pound animals in research. -

Sequoya is now trying to stop researchers
from using pound animals to conduct research ex-
periments.

Even if Sequoya and others are successful, the
unclaimed stray animals’ fate remains the same
— death.

It doesn’t matter, Sequoya says.

“The quality of life -— how sentient beings live
and how they die —— those are the important
things in life,” Sequoya said.

nced Sequoya that he

" - all ' convi
Friends eventu y hich he could attack

needed a power base from w

uses. . . '-
ab So in 1983, Sequoya formed the National Am

'mal Rights for Humane Education Inc., a non-

profit organization that uses donated money to
help pet owners pay veterinarian and hospital
bills or buy food for their animals. .
Sequoya claims there are members in the
group, but he can’t say exactly how many.
He also formed two lobbying groups called the

National Animal Rights for Humane Legislation

1’

Inc. and the National Animal Rights for Political
Action Committee Inc.

Sequoya operates the groups from his two-bed-
room house on Davis Islands.

He calls his home a sanctuary that he shares
with three “companions” —- Ruffian, Jodi and
Flip, boxers hehas raised since birth.

His companions rule the modest home, which
is decorated in earth-tone colors. Pictures of now
deceased companions — Blaze, Flame and Joshua
— hang on almost every wall.

There isn’t a paid staff. Sequoya refuses to use
the animal money for that luxury.

That’s why Sequoya answers the telephone
himself. He types the letters. On the issues, Se-
quoya does his own legwork. He travels alone
around Florida, a single warrior crusading in the
name of animal rights.

“Everyday you put on your combat boots, your
fatigues and you know you’re going to do battle
again and again and again,” Sequoya said. “You
know your phone is going to ring and someone

will tell you about an atrocity that’s been commit?

ted (against an animal).
“You know you’re going to butt heads with the

establishment.”

 

 

 

Tribune photo
Raini Sequoya speaks to a crowd of animal rights demonstrators at a rally in front of the
Hilisbmdasﬁv 5“,...4, Sourthuuse in ”'32

“‘

 

 




Page 6, Section 7

Benefit orga

Not since Hollywood’s King Kong
romped about the Empire State Build-
ing with! Fay Wray in 1933, then Jessica
Llange in 1976, has the ape been so visi-
b e.

The lively Houston Zoo Friends or-
ganizatio‘n is calling its May 1 biennial
benefit at the Hermann Park 200 “La
Fete Great Ape.” ,

Don’t be surprised to see one dancing
around a big maypole of bright red,
orange, blue and green vinyl in the sea
lions’ pool —— if the sea lions don’t mind.
. Late. bulletin from special effects
chairwoman Jean (Mrs. Richard)
Harper: The sea lions are vacating
their quarters for the evening to make
room for a fantastic laser light show
designed by Tim Walsh of Bastrop and
donated by Transco Energy.

Setting the stage for “La Fete Great ,

Ape” extravaganza with a tasting
.party for Don Strange’s “a la cart”
food, organizers decided that any kind
of an ape fete without an ape was
pointless.

So, good scout Stella (Mrs. James)
Nicklos, benefit co-chairwoman with
Rosanna (Mrs. Myron III) Blalock,
showed u at at the tree-lined home of
member usan Dunwoody garbed as a
gorilla. '

Meanwhile, at furniture tycoon
Aaron Finger’s 80th birthday party, the
ape that jumped out of his cake also
turned out to be a pretty woman in a
gorilla suit.

That one was the idea of wife Pat
“Cecelia B. DeMille". Finger.

“We had a girl jump out of the cake
on his 60th birthday,” she said. “So this
time she was wearing a gorilla suit —
before peeling down to her bathing
suit.” / .

Hostess Finger, in putting together a
'“You Ought to Be in Pictures” party
, theme, asked guests to include a photo
of themselves when they mailed their
acceptances. She made slides of the
pictures and ran them during the party,
along with occasional likenesses of fa-
miliar movie stars — and gorillas!

Houston Chronicle

says the goal
'Great Ape” is $200,000. Incidentally,
. Judy’s parents-in-law, Max and Isabell,

 

Sunday, March 23, 1986

 

 

 

 

The Fingers divide their time be-
tween Fort Worth and Houston.

Perhaps they can be persuaded to
attend the Zoo Friends party.

This one, themewise, comes full cir-
cle to the first one in 1968. It was titled
“Go-Go Gorilla” and raised $18,000 for
a pair of baby gorillas. _ '

Publicist Judy (Mrs. Marc) Herzstein
of this year’s “La Fete

donated artist Bob Fowler’s p0pular e1-
ephant sculpture at the 200’s front en-
trance.

Zoo Friends president Suzanne (Mrs.
Paul) Loyd, a member for eight years,
came up with the theme for the 1986

ball. She was wearing a jeweled circus
necklace from Tucan at the tasting

, party. '

She says funds will be used to build
nine activity centers throughout the
zoo’s yet-to-be—constructed primate fa-
cility. Anything exceeding the $200,000
figure will be directed toward other
zoo improvements, including the Dr.
John D. “Jack” Staub Bird Garden.

A grant from the Robert W. Knox Sr.
and Pearl Wallis Knox Charitable

j Foundation kicked off the first of the

proposed nine activity centers. Major
contributors also include Mr. and Mrs.

‘Music chairwoman Effie (Mrs.

nizers hope partygoers gc 1

ape for $200,000

due on the very night of the fete, said

dance rhythms will be provided by
i~Beto and the Fairlanes, and Rockin’
1,- Dopsey and the Cajun Twisters. She
and Blalock were wearing hand-
; painted dresses by Cathy Smith of San
, Antonio, who comes to town often for
, showings at Leslie 8; Co., Me T00 and

Corinne’s.

Zoo Friends’ longtime flower friend.
the Empty Vase, is doing centerpieces
for the 140 tables and fixing up the

i maypoles and Japanese lanterns for
the reflection and sea lion pools.

l Gerard’s Continental Restaurant is

. offering a tasty raffle prize — a seven-

-. course dinner for six. Owner Jerry Tas-

ian recently introduced Houston’s first

‘ “Priceless Dinner Menu.” No prices are

. listed, and he urges patrons to deter-
a mine their own checks.

P Raffle prizes also include an Apple
computer, a Mark Cross suitcase and a

; beaded tiger’s eye necklace from Les-

a; ter Rutledge’s Collection, along with

1 multi vacation trips and gift certifi-

, cates. Interested in the party? Call 529-
2632 and leave your name, address, ZIP
and phone number. Tables for 10 and
iradividual tickets ($125 each) are avail-
a e.

Zoo director John Werler and his
wife, Ingrid, were among the Zoo
Friends sampling the chicken tacos at
the Don Strange tasting party.

 

Attendants from the Children’s Zoo
brought a vanload of cute critters such
,‘as the Texas armadillo, a boa constric-
i tor and a fennec (African desert fox) to
promote “La Fete Great Ape.”

., Joe M. Green Jr. of the Rockwell Fund
' Inc. v,

 

; Chuck) GardnerLan-Wexpectant mother

Girl meets gorilla
—— Stella Nicklos
and her mask.

 

 

 

 




H 2:;

As guests departed down the drive-
way, what a nice touch to hear some-
body's sweet voice bidding them
“goodbye” over and over again.

It was the Houston Children’s Zoo’s
green and gold macaw, a native of
South America that speaks perfect
English!

Friendly goriha offers a straw

Sam C Pierson J
O , - r. Photos / Chron'
Friends Rosanna Mrs. Myron- we

berry to Zoo

ch . . H
G. In Bialock, co- a'rwoman Of La Fete Great Ape.” Her CO-chair

IS the goriiia, Stetia Mrs. James M Nicklo
. s.

\%$~ /
‘2' 5“ 9
:3?“ c
arses
r.‘ :7g.
5%.
«5

$

1} .: Shf“ ,
3:“ ﬁg
- 9

n

A ma " i
Carol ﬁgksgirched on Children's Zoo kee
Zoo Frien‘d . S ShOU'der Is fascinated w'th per
5 Toulouse Lautrec-type art by Mghe
i U-

rice Lewison the invitation. Chairwomen Gayl

(Mrs. Chuck Carib
. erg, cente
Mickey Henry were delightedf’toac‘ar.1d JOdy (Mrs.

 

 




TAMPA TRIBUNE - March 19, 1986

Double treat: Lowry Zoo
.gets elephant, donation

A zoo of a different kind, radio station WRBQ,
pledged $150,000 toward Lowry’s renovation.
And the Tampa Board of Realtors plans to
raise enough funds to purchase an elephant.

By BRUCE DUDLEY
Tribune Staff Writer

A $20 million fund-raising cam-
paign to renovate the Lowry Park
Zoo received a double boost Tues-
day with a Tampa Board of Realtors’
pledge to purchase a new elephant
and a $150,000 gift from radio sta-
tion WRBQ.

The new elephant will replace
Sheena, the 200’s long-time resident
pachyderm who died unexpectedly
in January at a Canadian animal at-
traction where she was being housed
during the zoo renovation.

Tampa Realtor Dan Moore told ,

the Lowry Park Zoo Association that
' the Realtors organization plans to
raise $20,000 to $40,000 to purchase
a full-grown elephant to replace
Sheena. . .

“Since our board was founded,
the Hillsborough County community
we serve has given so much of itself
to our organization that we want to
give something special in return,”
said Walt Hand, president of the
Realtors’ grodp.

Holly H. Duncan, the zoo associa-
tion’s development director, said the
association also has been contacted
by the Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity
at the University of South Florida,
which wants to help raise funds for
the purchase of an additional ele-
phanL

The Asian domain exhibit, which
will be included in the first phase of
the renovation, includes an area for
three elephants. Zoo personnel had
hoped Sheena would have been one
of these elephants along with a baby
elephant, if Sheena had become

pregnant while at the Canadian at- .

traction.

 

But now zoo officials are looking
for all new elephants. '
' The WRBQ donation, which is
the first corporate gift to be re-
ceived by the zoo association, specif-
ically was earmarked for a planned
petting zoo that will be named after
the radio station’s morning show, the
Q-Zoo. .
The $150,000 will be paid over a
five-year period as the renovation is
pieced together in phases.

The association also approved
the expenditure of about $425,000 to
include several items in the 200’s
first phase of construction that city
officials eliminated after bids came
in higher than anticipated.

Items approved by the associa-
tion included a viewing tower in the
aviary exhibit and cave viewing

areas where visitors would enter a

cave and be able to get a close look
at tigers and bears through a glassed
display inside a rock formation.

The $425,000 expenditure,
recommended by Zoo Association
Chairwoman Sally Baldwin to ensure
the new Tampa zoo is special, will
be in addition to the $6.3 million con-
tract already approved with the
David Nelson Construction Co. of
Tampa to build the first phase of the
zoo renovation.

Olly the Otter, a puppet that will
be used in a special education pro-
gram to prOmote the zoo in area
schools, was introduced at the Tues-
day meeting. .

Betty Greenwood, Olly’s owner,
said the otter and other puppets will
be used in a zoo educational pro-
gram being planned for students in
kindergarten through the third

1

 

COIN WORLD - 3/24/86

Dolphins eat cents,
become sick at zoo

Dolphins and coins don’t

' mix. At least not according to

veterinarians at the Minnesota
Zoo in Apple Valley, Minn,
who discovered what appears
to be US. cents in the stomach

‘ of a dolphin named Rio.

Visitors at the zoo apparent-
ly throw coins to the dolphin.

John Lewis, assistant director

of the zoo for animal pro-
grams, said that Rio and anoth-
er dolphin named Mindy
appeared to .have stopped eat-
ing properly several weeks

- ago. He initially felt that it was

a personality swing which nor-
mally .comes with the mating
urge.

X-rays have now deter-
mined, however, that two ob-
jects in Rio’s stomach may be
copper cents. Part of a third
cent has already been found.
Both animals have been pulled
off of public display temporar-
ily and a specialist will be
ﬂown in from California to re-
move the objects with a spe-
cial scope that is inserted

through the mouth of the pa-

tient.

 

77mm ,
T'K/Bwvéi
Mﬁ/QC/V"
07/, were ?

 

Disney

 

 

 

 

 

grade.
\f’

The first phase will include an

 

Asian domain exhibit featuring ele-
phants and tigers among other ani-
mals, a primate or monkey exhibit,
an aviary, a childrens’ petting 200,
an orientation center and an animal
nursery.

 

Educational
value of zoos
is promoted

The use of a zoo as an educa-
tional tool was stressed to members
of the Lowry Park Zoo Association
Friday by W. Thane Maynard, the
assistant‘curator of education at the
Cincinnati Zoo.

Maynard, who recently hosted a
Channel cable television
series on wildlife, spoke to the as-
sociation at a luncheon held by Tam-

pa’s Barnett Bank where his brother,

C. Lee Maynard, is president. '
Part of the $20 million renova-

tion under way at the Lowry Park

200 will include an educational com-

plex. Maynard distributed brochures
f on the Cincinatti Zoo that described
‘ educational efforts such as holding

classes for “Zoologists of Tomor-
row.” ‘

During a slide presentation, May-
nard particularly stressed medical
advances that have been made at
the Cincinnati 200 including embryo
transfers. One of these transfers,
Maynard said, made history in 1984
when a female African eland ante-
lope gave birth to a bongo antelope
of a different species.

Maynard also said the planned
Florida exhibit at Tampa’s ex-
panded zoo should be a particularly

valuable asset because many people

visiting the state will never have
seen some of the animals native to
Florida.

The David Nelson Construction

Co. of Tampa is now working on the

$6.4 million first phase of the zoo,

scheduled for a 1987 fall opening.

 

 




 

 

. CLEVELAND, OH PLAIN DEALER - 3/22/86

0
w This bah
t .
Paddling around in the relative privacy of a big tank in the
closed Cleveland Aquarium is this 20-pound male babv ‘
- harbor seal, newest offspring of a 200-pound big mama
named Josephine. The seal family can be seen about mid-
Mav When their new home opens in the Cleveland Metro-

 

parks Zoo.

W-.

 

 

y is wet

 
   

 

 

     

AP photo

heat stsiises back

gm

31 at

is;
W

- i

en a
s; ‘c! 7.
In:

Sunday and was treated for .

scrapes. Zoo officials said the elephant had
been in a seclusion pen because he was in a,

period of sexual excitement.

Injury

OUS

tihe

‘s‘ail. Sat ‘9 piliiam J. Neuser, 27, escaped seri-

im agams

an elephant at the Houston Zoo,
runk around a zookeeper’s neck,

i
at around and slams h

. i

‘
’n
4‘!

,an As
.5
t

v t

23."
i

wraps i is

$
A
I.

wmgs

I

. 3!
I»)

9861 ‘sz WHEN — HNHEIIiiL dev;




 

HOUSTON CHRONI CLE

- March 7, 1986

Hermann Zoo’s. gorilla, Vanilla, is dead -

 

By MAUREEN BALLEZA
Houston Chronicle

 

Vanilla, a gorilla that spent most of
her life at the Hermann Zoo and was
well-known to many Houstonians, died
Wednesday morning in Brownsville.

Dr. Don Forest, director of the.

Brownsville Zoo, said a necropsy (post

mortem examination) revealed a
grapefruit-size tumor at the juncture of
the large and small intestines.

The 18-year-old lowland gorilla had
been ill for the past 10 days and was
being treated for what seemed to be a
salmonella infection. She appeared to

be respbnding to the treatments and'

gadda good appetite the day ,before she
1e .

Vanilla was under a 24-hour watch
from the onset of her illness but she
took a drastic turn for the worse about
midnight Tuesday and died at 7:30 am.
Wednesday, Forest said. _

She had been transferred to the

LOS ANGELES TIMES - March 7, 1986

Brownsville facility in the fall of 1985
for breeding purposes. Zoo keepers
were hoping Vanilla would prove more

, fertile in her new environment, after
‘ attempts to breed her here had failed.

Those attempts included the import-
ing of Abe, a 25 year old from Colorado
with a reputation for gentleness. But
Vanilla did not take his advances
kindly.

.In their first public appearance in
1982, she slugged him twice in the head.
He returned the punches with a left jab.

They went their separate ways before

long.

Sylvia Royster, superintendent with
the Houston Parks and Recreation De-
partment, said Vanilla presented a
problem in breeding “because shewas
a real lady.”

“She was very selective about who

she mated with. If you didn’t fit the .

prerequisites, it was no go, ” said Roys-
ter.

Vanilla spent most of her' life in
Houston, having arrived as a baby in

January, 1968. She was a favorite
among visitors and well-known for her
antics, such as throwing dung at her
keepers to express displeasure, along
with covering her ears when her public
grew too noisy for her.

“She was pretty reasonable when it
came to photos and antics but when it
came to breeding, she was less enter-
taining,” said Royster.

It was hoped the transfer to the
larger, communal facility in Browns-
ville would be more conducive to the
demanding Vanilla. Hermann Zoo
would have shared in any offspring she
produced.

Royster said animals are sometimes
more susce tible to disease and it has
nothing to o with the facility. She said
if an animal dies while on loan, they
just have to try to figure out where
they will find another one.

The only gorilla currently in resi-
dence at Hermann Zoo is 31—year-old
M’Kubwa, better known as Mac.

 

a
a.)
.E
F
m
o
"'5
an
i:
<
E
l»\
(0
.m
>1
1:)
756
Z
O
O

4...:
(U
>.
(U

.0
U)
L
:3

.C

l'"
>.

2
0.
.52

.0
C
O
4.:
C
Q)
3

f.

.o'
0)
LL
C
L.
0
.0
.2
0.
(U
4.:
.E
(U
H
C
3
0
E
'>
.0
CD
.0
<l
O
O
N
O
.2
a
g
, ﬂ
0
Z

 

-old Mija, the baby has a banded
hy vegetarians found in the Andes.

, 9—year

the LA. Zoo. Shown here with her mother

coat that will later turn. solid brown. Tapirs are s

 




DALLAS TIMES HERALD - March 12,1986 AMERICAN WAY M . 3/4/
.._, ,, _ . . , aga21ne - 86

maybe watch as a mother
cradles her baby 50 feet
above the ground. It has
glass-fronted pools through
which the diving antics of
crab—eating macaques can be
seen, the only nonhuman
primate that likes to swim.
The center has replaced a
line of row cages that once
housed the primates. Accord—
. ing to architect Cathy Simon,
those ‘animals might as well
have been stuffed; there was
no recognition that these
were creatures with their
own life patterns, families, or
skills.” Simon designed the
center to ensure that it would
be an adventure for animals
as well as humans.
Since one goal of the 200 is
conservation, the 16 species
living in the primate center
were chosen from among
those that are either endan-
gered or threatened.
The Primate Discovery
Center is located within the
San Francisco Zoo, open every
day from 10 AM to 5 PM.
Admission is $2.50 for adults,
free for children 15 and under
accompanied by an adult, and
50¢ for those 65 and over.
For more information call
(415) 661-2023.
3 —--—Donna Lauren Gold © 1985

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

rirnates (the group of

mammals that includes
humans, apes, and monkeys)
often like to observe each
other in action. At the
Primate Discovery Center
in the San Francisco Zoo,
human primates have the
opportunity to do just that.

The size of a football ﬁeld

and ﬁve stories high, the
center has tree-level
passageways from which
visitors can observe
colobus monkeys . .
iea; r, .. , , cetop
branches, or

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“’9“ 3mg

Jeff Shaw / Dallas Times Herald

Room to grow

A baby giraffe wobbles on its new legs Monday morning at

the Dallas Zoo. The giraffe, born Monday to parents Hildy
and Tano, stands about 6-feet tall.

 

 




 

Barnyard
animals rate
family status

By Richard Spencer
The Tribune

PT. RICHMOND -— Sam the goat
was hoof-deep in mud and Judy
Jarvis, den mother to a remarkable
Tewksbury Avenue menagerie,
wasn’t much better off.

The rains of recent weeks have
kept her knee-deep in a pair of rub-
ber boots as she tended her array of
barnyard animals.

Sam the goat is just one of Jar-
vis’ many animals. African pigmy
goats, cats, ducks, a bewildered
German shepherd, geese, kittens,
rabbits, and a rat snake with more
moves than a Philadelphia lawyer,
keep her busy. So do her active chil-
dren, Kristiane, 8, and Samantha, 6.

“I’ve always loved animals,”
Jarvis said. “Even when I was a kid
I brought home every stray animal
I found, including injured animals
from the science lab.

“Seeing an animal mistreated
disgusts me. None of my animals
are for human consumption.
They’re being raised as pets.
They’re family members actually.”

Starting a Point Richmond 4-H
Club was her original goal, but ac-
cepting a new job with the Ameri-
can Red Cross in Richmond as a
youth services coordinator has put
the project on a back burner.

But, the 38-year-old, Berkeley-
born animal lover is hoping that
her pets will soon become part of a
Red Cross program.

“I’ve just discovered an old Red
Cross program about first aid for

4"

pets,” Jarvis Said. “I’d like to make
it into a learning program for
youth, especially the younger kids,
carrying the theme over to first aid
for humans.

“So many children have never
petted a warm, living animal,” Jar-
vis commented. “I’d love to give
them the chance.”

Her h0pe is to take the animal
first aid program‘ into the elemen-
tary schools. “We like to teach chil-
dren to not only appreciate hu-
mans, but all living beings, as
well.”

Jarvis lives in an old, wooden
farmhouse, which she is fixing up to
look like an old New England farm~
house.

“The Point lends itself to that,”

See BARN YARD, Page 2

Samantha Jarvis, 6, holds her Rhode Island Red rooster.

9861 ‘61 113mm - Miami VD ‘uwmvo

 




she noted. "I’d like the house to
fit into this rural setting.”

And she is quick to note that
her barnyard collection of ani-
mals is getting rave reviews
from just about everyone in her
area.

“My landlady loves ,it,” she
said, “and there are no problems
with my neighbors. I get lunch-
time {visitors from Chevron
across. the freeway, who like to

watch my pets.-I can’t run an'

orphanage for animals, but I

have taken the ones people love

but can’t keep and want to find a
home for.” ,

Jarvis estimates she has be-
tween 60 to 70 animals counting
on her for room and board. The
cats, she said, are by far the
most expensive to keep fed.

Jarvis came by her rooster
when she rescued it as it played
chicken on the freeway. Her
“senior” ducks are Bonnie and
Clyde and she’s looking for a
small donkey and ‘male goose to
add to the collection.

She stocks alfalfa. grain_.,and.-

scratch, and two or three times a
week picks up fresh trim at
Fry’s Food Stores in Larkspur
Landing.

Jarvis has a few more animals
she’d like to add to her Point
Richmond menagerie.

“A young ewe and a ram
would be nice,” Jarvis said, “be-
cause when they’re young,
they’re easier to train to be
around neighborhood kids. But
no more cats and dogs. I don’t
want to create a public nui-

sance.”

Kristiane Jarvis, 8, holds 5-day-old kitten from the family’s newest litter.

"bi

A.‘

Spencer/The Tn

[7

4K4-

0

une

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Dogs, pups
are packed
into house

Officers moving
more than 200
despite odor

By Barbara A. Burch
Staff Reporter

 

 

More than 200 dogs —— perhaps
as many as 265 — were found yes-
terday at the house of an elderly
woman who was hospitalized
Saturday night after an apparent
heart attack.

The dogs, all small breeds
such as poodles, cockapoos, chi-
huahuas and terriers, were
found at the house of Jane Haley
about 3 pm. yesterday.

The police had been called to
2093 Lamar to check on Mrs. Ha-
ley’s invalid stepson, said Ron
Cleaves, field supervisor for the
Memphis Animal Shelter.

Last night, 165 dogs had been
taken to the shelter, he said.
“We’re estimating there still are
another 75 to 100 dogs at the
house.” Shelter employees will
pick up the remaining animals
this morning.

Larry Brunson, an animal con-
trol officer, said the single-story
house contained about seven
rooms, including a basement.

“Never before in the history of
the shelter” have so many ani-
mals been found living in one
place, Cleaves said. Before yes:
terday, the most dogs found at
one place was 25 or 30, he said.

Last October, about 150 cats
were found in the Vollintine
home of Cordelia ‘Scott’ Rightor
Jacobs after she died of a heart
. attack. Healthy cats were put up
for adoption.

Cleaves said Mrs. Haley, who is
about 80, was in fair condition
yesterday at Baptist Hospital.
Paramedics took her stepson,
whose name was unavailable, to
the hospital.

Cleaves said that although the
dogs appeared to be well cared
for, the ﬂoors of the home were
covered with animal waste. “The
smell is unbearable,” he said.

Animal control officers spent
several hours yesterday corral-
ing the canines, many puppies
that appeared to be only a few
days old. Some of the officers
wore surgical masks to fight the
odor.

Even though the doors of the
house were opened to help air
circulate inside, those dogs in-
_' doors showed no inclination to
step out into the yard. A poodle
was peering suspiciously around
the door while a terrier-type dog
cowered under a chair.

Cleaves said he also sum-
moned the Health Department
to make sure the conditions in-
side posed no health threat to
the officers.

He said whether they will be
put up for adoption depends on
Mrs. Haley’s health and whether
her family wants to take them.

Mrs. Haley apparently had
been giving the dogs shots for
parvo virus and distemper,
Cleaves said, because empty vac-
cination vials were found at the
house. But, he said he had not

Keen-able to determine if Mrs.

 

MEMPHIS COMMERCIAL APPEAL

— March 24, 19'

U! Jllll Ullv‘l In

 

Larry Brunson, an animal control officer with the Memphis Animal Shelter, removes. three of
more than 200 dogs found in the house at 2093 Lamar. He wore a mask because of the odor.

Haley had a regular veterinar- ,

ian, if the animals had been giv-
en rabies vaccinations, or if Mrs.
Haley had a kennel license.

A garage at the rear of the
property held about 48 dogs, all
in cages. In the house, puppies
were found under beds and

chairs. Cleaves said all the dogs
had been fed and watered. Sever-

al bags of dog food were re-'

moved from the house.

A large cage with a sign “Pup-
py sale today” was in the front
yard. _

Catherine Gregory, who lives

next door, said Mrs. Haley had.
kept dogs at her house for at
least 10 years. “She is a very nice
woman,” Mrs. Gregory said, add-
ing that Mrs. Haley is her daugh-
ter’s godmother. “She loves
those dogs like I love my ’.“

dren.” /

 




 

Two of Jane Haley’s dogs

. MEMPHIS COMMERCIAL APPEAL -

3/ 25/ 86
B Fred Griffith

 

‘Puppy mill’ locked up
as unsanitary residence
after dogs are collected

 

By John Beifuss
Staff Reporter

 

An elderly woman who kept
almost 200 dogs at her home on
Lamar apparently had run-a
“puppy mill” for years in
which she raised and sold
dogs, neighbors and authori-
ties said yesterday.

“It looked like at one time it
might have been a puppy
mill,” said Mike French, man-
ager of the Memphis Animal
Shelter. He said 198 dogs had
been collected from the house
at 2093 Lamar by the time offi-
cials finished the job about
noon yesterday.

“The people last night were
sick, they were throwing up
and everything from being in
the house,” French said. He
said a person rimming a puppy
mill “breeds one dog after an-
other.”

The dogs —— all small breeds
such as poodles and Chihua-
huas — were found Sunday
after Jane Haley, their 74~year-
old owner, was taken to Baptist
Hospital after an apparent
heart attack. '

Mrs. Haley was in good con-
dition in the intensive care
unit yesterday, according to
hospital spokesman Trina
Jones.

Merlie Reynolds of the clas-
sified advertising department
of The Commercial Appeal
said Mrs. Haley had run short
advertisements in the newspa-
per for some 20 years. In this
week’s newpaper, the ad reads
‘fPEKE-A-POOS 8: CHIHUA-
HUAS,” followed by her home
phone number. Peke-a-poos

are part Pekingese and part
poodle.

Mrs. William F. Elder, a
neighbor, said Mrs. Haley had
sold dogs at least since 1969.
She said she often put dogs in a
cage in the front yard with a
sign reading “Puppies for
Sale.” She said Mrs. Haley had
been breeding peke-a-poos re-
cently.

“Those dogs were her life,”
Mrs. Elder said. “I know this is
going to break her heart be-
cause if she finds out they’ve
taken her dogs, I don’t know
what she’ll do.”

She said Mrs. Haley took
good care of her dogs.

Apparently some neighbors
weren’t as tolerant. Rochester
Neely, Health Department su-
pervisor of urban sanitation,
said the department had been
receiving complaints about
Mrs. Haley since the mid-19703.

“She was instructed on sev-
eral occasions to clean the
area and use lime to reduce the

"odor,” he said, adding that the

department could take no ac-
tion against her because she
always complied with the
clean-up.

Now, however, the house has
been ordered closed because it
is unsanitary. He said it cannot
be reoccupied until it is
cleaned up and reinspected.

French said relatives would
decide what becomes of the
dogs, which are now crowding
the Animal Shelter;

But a family member outside
Mrs. Haley’s house yesterday
during the dog collection said
the family would let Mrs. Ha-
ley decide what to do with the
dogs after her health returns.

9 uaamaq 930.19 9) sood-9-axad 91

‘satpood 09

 

‘sueau 911111 Item

“anus A9111
ssetq ‘asneoaq,, A9po1 s

MEMPHIS COMMERCIAL APPEAL - 3/26/86

WILL
Bop 9

[out 1unoo 80p
Butdaex to; 98.1qu Attep aq1 pres

‘senqenqtqg 01; ‘asa

Bop 911,1, '206‘955 stenba sSop
am J0 qoea .Iad 1unour9
39$ 13991 19 st .Iaueqs 9111 19

'BUDIGd on sepn

-Aq-

smelt 861

oz 18991 19 .10} setddnd Butnas

pun Butpaatq uaaq pm; 3113 p193
[(91911 ‘sxw maux 011m atdoad

'SW

80p aq1

Bummq utﬁaq pInom sxexaom

191181218 p193 JaAtpue A

219119119 [mutate em 19 .tostAJed
‘JaAtpueA ans

'-ns Butsnoq

'Aepuns m >100), uemom am .19119
return 9503 19 auroq 3,,{319H saw
111011 paAOIIIGJ 9.19m sBop SILL

‘sBop

‘9$ 18991
am daax .Iauaqs [entitle 9111 19101

'ueutom Anama H9 10 amoq '

mam eAatnaJ 01 096
anueAV 1911191 9111 won uaxm

19 180:) ptnom 11 asneoaq
aptoap mm listen 9119f p10-199A

M J0 KIWI?! em Mann 3; 11 mg

“‘51

@1119; am 10 110131391) 3111 no 119m

“'[IBIIIS Ansom
st mou 11181.1 op U90 em 11V”

91,1{9111 anoqt uaAa ‘uonemts
9.19 sBop am 19111

Butppe ‘pt9s .IaAtpueA 'sw

papmom B 111,,

8309 861 1mm Op 01 mum uo £99

~01 paom answer 01 1oadxa $1913
'IJJO «ISIISUS [BUIIUV SIHdUIBW

380p poztas JO 9191 no

8.1811131

om1 p119 (atpood 9 pm: aseBumad

p sumac 19119113

11018139

 

 




by Brenda Cbapz’n

Robert Outman trains Mpzec to inmect homesfor insects. The
dogs are cute, cuddly, and cracking down on ‘ termites.

A Nose That Knows

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Above: Working outdoors and
indoors, Ben, the termite-
snifﬁng beagle, and his handler,
Dave Helms, pursue the enemy.
Facing page: Ben waits eagerly
in the van while Helms inspects
a house and prepares the owner
for the canine sleuth.

38 - American Way, February 18, 1986

I

t’s dawn and the city is coming to life. A termite in-

spector ready to begin the working day climbs into his

personally equipped white van, boldly emblazoned with
his own larger-than-life image. It may be a bit much for an
ordinary termite inspector, but this is no ordinary termite
inspector. This is Ben, the termite—snifﬁng beagle.

Six days a week Ben and his partner-handler, Dave
Helms, drive to the Paramount Pest Control ofﬁce in sub-
urban Washington, D. C. While Helms checks the appoint—
ments, Ben greets his colleagues with some friendly barks
then falls asleep next to Helms’s desk. “When he’s not
working, he’s often sleeping,” says Helms, smiling. Off-
duty Ben is a playful pup, but when Helms ﬁnishes the
early morning paper work and prepares to go on inspec-
tions, Ben’s demeanor changes.

When they arrive at a home, Ben waits in the van while
Helms inspects the house and prepares the owner for the
little sleuth hound. If Ben is left alone for a long time, he
often starts honking the horn. Says Helms:

“It’s hard not to anthr0pomorphize Ben, but he doesn’t
really honk to hurry me. It’s only an accident.”

Then Helms returns to the van and puts on his uniform,
a white ceat. That is the ﬁrst signal to Ben that it is time
for business. Next Helms places a red and blue collar em-
broidered Termite Dog around Ben’s neck. These two ac-
tions make Ben extremely excited.

Inside the house Helms wields the traditional inspector’s
tools, a screwdriver and a ﬂashlight, and guides Ben
throughout the house. Ben is trained to inspect eyery-
where, including attics, underground spaces, behind fur-
naces, and in tight crawl spaces. He sniffs every inch and

can pinpoint accurately the precise location of as few as

eight termites, carpenter ants, wood borers, or beetles.
“Of course, Ben can’t identify exactly what insect he’s found;
he only bears and smells them and goes into an alert po-
sition,” says Helms. The alert position, or signal, is when
Ben begins digging as if he were searching for a bone.

Robert Outman, Ben’s trainer, began his canine school,
TADD Services, in Belmont, California, about eight years
ago; his ﬁrst dog began termite work six years ago. Since
then, Outman has placed nearly 50 sleuthing beagles around
the country. All are given human names because, says
Outman, it instills greater conﬁdence by a public not ac-
customed to dog inspectors.

Outman leases beagles to pest-control companies aft;

 

 

 




 

 

It»:

Ivukx «In.

I 7v
‘93:?

3*

.m ‘3: :11 {rt-kn.

:fztvv

 

 

American Way February 18, 1986 0 39

 




 

Outman ’5 dogs bear irepomibz'lz'o/ for impeding 100 percent
of the house and are insured for up to $5 00,000 for errors.

“is only mwardsforaiobwell
donearewordsofpraisefrom
lishandlerandﬁomsatisﬁed
clients—butthat’senough
hrBen.

the companies have met his stringent requirements, and
he selects the handler from the pest-control company’s
staff. The company then provides the dog with a specially
outﬁtted private van and allows Outman to continue lifetime
quality-control checks on both the dog and its handler.

A company takes out a two—year lease on the dog, and
other companies in the area are permitted to hire the dog’s
services. The beagles can work until they’re about eight
years old, when their senses begin to weaken; the handlers
then have ﬁrst choice on whether to keep the dogs. .

Outman became interested in termites following a per-
sonal experience with the bugs. He explains:

“I purchased a home in California and received the stan-
dard termite inspection from a certiﬁed exterminator. When
I raised the carpet to replace it, I found small white insects
that I guessed were termites.” . .

A second opinion conﬁrmed his suspicions but also re-
vealed that certain areas of homes are deemed inaccessible
to the exterminating trade and thus are not included in the
standard guarantee. Despite the original “termite free”
guarantee, Outman had to pay for the damage. He says:

“It happens all the time. You invest thousands of dollars
in a home and have no guarantee the building is free of
termites. The inaccessibility factor starts at 50 percent of
the house in California.” That means for each visible surface
there’s 50 percent behind walls, under carpets, and in re-

‘ mote areas that is inaccessible even to thorough, reputable
human inspectors, areas for which they are not responsi—
ble. Outman’s dogs bear responsibility for inspecting 100

40 0 American Way, February 18, 1986

percent of a house; they are insured for up to $500,000
for errors and omissions.

Outman, an award—winning animal behaviorist, formerly
trained police dogs, including one that was the highest-
rated explosive-detection dog in the country. Outman re-
alized immediately that animal senses could be applied to
the termite problem.

At ﬁrst Outman considered training aardvarks. “But
quickly I got down to reality and began testing the senses
of small breeds of dogs,” he says. The beagle, which ranks
in the 99th percenth in terms of sensitivity, won from the
beginning. It took Outman 19 months to train the ﬁrst
beagle. He begins training them at his California school
when the pups are ﬁve weeks old. The training takes a'
year and includes three stages, the details of which Outman
prefers to keep secret. '

Outman’s trained dogs have settled hefty lawsuits, and
among satisﬁed customers are Strom Thurmond and Ted
Turner. The dogs carry life insurance for $25,000, approx-
imately what it costs Outman to train them. When the
training begins, each dog is tattooed twice on its stomach
for identiﬁcation purposes.

“Never in a million years did I think I’d be doing this,”
says Helms, who graduated with a degree in diplomatic
relations and was selected as Ben’s handler after a series
of interviews and tests. Even Helms’s wife was inter-
viewed during the selection process. Says Helms:

“It was tough at ﬁrst. It’s like raising a child, and you
treat them like children, kindly and affectionately yet ﬁrmly.
You have to stop thinking like a human in one sense; you
grow to trust the dog, to watch and believe in him; you
learn to rely on him. And you learn patience.” Trust and
patience do pay off: In February, 1985, Helms and Ben
were named the number-one team at TADD.

Helms keeps work and health records on Ben and carries
a full disability plan for the dog. Says Helms, “He’s like us:
If he’s a little under the weather, I don’t make him wor .”
When Helms goes on vacation so does Ben.

In addition to their daily inspections, Helms and Ben
appear on television programs, visit schools where they
lecture and demonstrate how animals’ keen senses help
humans, and appear before community groups and clubs.

Home owners are responding very favorably to‘. Ben,

' whose services in the Washington, D.C., area are approx-

imately $150 per house. Ben elicits initial comments such
as “cute, cuddly, adorable,” but after the inspection the
response is more likely to be “impressive” or “amazing.”
Petting is alloWed only after a job is ﬁnished, and Ben’s

- only rewards are Helrns’s well-modulated responses and

encouragements.

Other experienced exterminators who have seen Out-
man’s beagles at work share Helrns’s enthusiasm. Says
one, “In 36 years as a pest-control operator, 1 have never
witnessed anything so amazing.” -

Brenda C hapin is h Virginia-based writer and the author
of Guide to Recommended Country Inns.

 

 




_ by joel Schwarz

Steve Kuntz ana’ Erich Klingharnrner
think that people are unnecessarily
alannea’ by wolves, who do not deserve
their reputations as cold-blooded leillers.
Through Wolf Haven and ‘Wolf Par/e, they
are trying to save the anirnalsfrorn
extinction and to educate the public.

68 ° American Way, March 4, 1986

ew animals inspire as much instinctive fear and hatred

in humans as do wolves. And perhaps no animal

species has been maligned more unjustly thanthe
wolf, according to Steve Kuntz and Erich Klinghammer,
two men who are trying to change public perception about
the big canines.

Klinghammer, who teaches animal behavior at Purdue
University in Lafayette, Indiana, is director of Wolf Park,
a research and educational wildlife park in Battle Ground,
Indiana. Kuntz is director of Wolf Haven, a wolf sanctuary
near Tenino, Washington. Both facilities are dedicated to
the same ends: telling the true story of the wolf and saving
the animals from extinction.

There are only an estimated 1,200 wild wolves remain-

 




N
E
3
I
,0
.::w
‘_J
Lu
0
"3
©

ing in the lower 48 states, concentrated in Michigan and There are only about 1,200 wolves in the wild in the lower 48
Minnesota. Another 10,000 are in Canada and Alaska, where states, 80 most PEOPIG see the animals only at 2005 or through
wolves are not listed as an endangered species and still chain link fences at refuges SUCh as WC" Haven near TCIIiIIO,
are hunted. Washington.
Klinghammer’s and Kuntz’s work in support of the wolf
is tempered by realism. Both men acknowledge that the
animals can be dangerous and that the resemblance be-
tween wolves and dogs is purely physical. Both men ac-
tively campaign against keeping wolves as pets. At the
same time, they believe wolves have gotten an undeserved
reputation and are not cold-blooded killers who stalk hu-
mans as prey. Klinghammer explains:
“I talk to visitors about the old myths concerning wolves
as evil beings and the new mythology which says wolvtgs

American Way, March 4, 1986 - 69

 




© ERICH KLINGHAMMER

‘Wolves babe funny quir/es about tbeir rigbts.
Wen I’m witb wolves I go by tbeir
rules because they don’t go by ours.’

can do no wrong. At Wolf Park we try to put these extreme
versions into perspective, and we hope our education pro-
grams help people to support the wolf.” Adds Kuntz:

“The majority of the public has misconceptions about
wolves, which are really afraid of people. Wolves are cu-
rious when you enter their territory, but shy. But there is
that ‘Little Red Riding Hood’ syndrome that instills fear of
wolves in people. Every kid grows up with ‘Little Red
Riding Hood,’ and the wolf is always a bad character on the
Saturday morning television cartoons.

“People like to be scared, but the wolf’s image is un-
founded. We are reacting to an image of the wolf projected
by man on the animal. The only recorded attacks by wolves
on man were made by animals that were found to have had
brain tumors, and there were only two such cases. There
has not been a documented case of a wolf killing a human
in North America.”

However, Kuntz and Klinghammer are adamant in their
opposition to the practice of keeping wolves as pets despite
its popularity in some circles and the availability of wolf
pups from black-market breeders. Wolves make poor pets
because of their natural instincts and man’s inability to train
them. Kuntz explains:

“Up to about three years of age, young wolves are sub—
missive to their owners. The human is treated as the alpha
wolf [the dominant animal in a pack]. But at three, wolves
will begin challenging their master for dominance and start
doing things like grabbing a roast off a counter because
they think it belongs to them. Unlike a dog, which will
challenge a human once or twice and then accept the per-

’. a " i ’ ~ ~ "
f .9 :4 . 1 . y“ t " ‘3‘

At Wolf Part in Battle Ground, Indiana, researchers study the
interaction of wolves and bison.

70 - American Way, March 4, 1986

son as its master, a wolf always will be challenging you for
leadership.

“The best you can hope is to make a friend, but wolves
have funny quirks about their rights. When I’m with wolves
I go by their rules beCause they don’t go by ours.

“Many people think they will get the ultimate watchdog
with a wolf, but if a stranger climbs over the fence into
their yards, a wolf will probably hide. At the same time,
people think they can use training techniques on them like
a dog, but you can’t train or tame a wolf. That’s why there
are no wolf acts in the circus or show business. The army
tried training them as watch animals and failed.”

Klinghammer adds that keeping wolves as pets is unfair
to the animals because wolves are social creatures who
live in the highly structured society of the pack. A pet wolf,
he says, is condemned to a lifetime of loneliness.

Perhaps even more dangerous pets than wolves are by-
brid crosses between wolves and dogs. Klinghammer calls
them potentially “lethal, walking time bombs.”

The work of Wolf Park and Wolf Haven is funded largely
by private individuals. Both facilities offer supporting mem-
berships and have adopt—a-wolf programs to help offset the
$600 it takes to maintain a wolf in captivity each year.
However, the focus is slightly different at each park. While
both parks stress education, Wolf Park is involved in re-
search while Wolf Haven is a sanctuary for animals that
otherwise would have been destroyed.

These differences reﬂect the backgrounds of Kling-
hammer and Kuntz. Klinghammer is a scientist interested
in animal behavior, While Kuntz is a devoted animal lover
who used to work in construction.

Klinghammer became interested in wolves as a student at
the University of Chicago and began studying them at the
Brookﬁeld Zoological Gardens. In the early ’705 the zoo gave
him two wolf pups, which he brought to his 75—acre farm in
Battle Ground. That was the start of Wolf Park.

Over the years he and other researchers have used the
wolves in a number of studies, including taste-aversion
tests to discourage the animals from preying on livestock.
Wolf Park also is the home of a small herd of bison, and
Klinghammer is investigating how the wolves test the bison
for weaknesses and how the bison react and defend them—
selves. He says:

“There is no intention to have a bison killed. Our bison
are too healthy for the wolves to attack. In all of our work,
we are taking a broad look at the local dynamics of a wolf
pack and what are the signals that control its behavior. We
need to study wolves in captivity as well as in the wild to
understand their behavior because they do many things in
the wild that reseachers can’t see due to [the wolves’]
reclusive nature. Otherwise it’s like knowing a few bars of
a symphony without knowing the entire score.”

At Wolf Haven Kuntz has provided homes for unwanted
wolves from as far away as Alaska, Connecticut, New York,
and Texas. A number of the wolves are former pets, and
six came from an eastern university research project ti}?

 




 

ran out of funding. One wolf was found
roaming downtown Portland, Oregon,
and another came from a tiny roadside
zoo near Sacramento, California.

Kuntz, who says he has been fas-
cinated by wolves since he was a child,
began working with them seven years
ago in Colorado with Ed Andrews, the
founder of Wolf Haven. Andrews later
moved the sanctuary to Washington,
and Kuntz took it over in 1982. Kuntz,
who has doubled the population of the
sanctuary since he became director,
says Wolf Haven is ﬁlled to capacity.
However, he adds that he doubts if the
facility, which is run by a staff of vol-
unteers, would turn down new wolves
that might be offered. Eventually
Kuntz hopes to involve Wolf Haven
in reintroducing young wolves into
the wild.

Both facilities take young wolves
into school classrooms and to civic
clubs to introduce the animals to peo-
ple and explain their role in the envi—
ronment. These close-up encounters
can be eyeopeners for people, partic-
ularly children, says Kuntz. He adds:

“Kids are timid of the wolves at ﬁrst.
The wolf has such a reputation as a
bad character that they expect a drool-
ing mass with six-inch teeth. But after
our presentation some of the kids say
they will go home and throw away their
‘Little Red Riding Hood’ books.” \.

While joel Schwarz was researching
this story, he encountered several "
curious and playful young wolves.
Although he was none the worse for
wear, several leather straps from his
camera bag did not survive the ordeal.

 

 




SAN FRANCISCO FOCUS Magazine - March 1986

 

A CLOSER LOOK

It’s a Jungle Out There

BY PAT TOMPKINS

 

Although we are now trying to save some endangered species, animals in the
wild stil l face serious threats from humans.

“Saving the Wildlife” airs on Channel 9 on
Monday the 10th at 8:00 p. in. and
Saturday the 15th at 7:00 p. m.

 

HANKS TO TELEVISION ”S

countless wildlife shows, we are

more familiar with penguins than
with the common cow. Tamed by the
camera, lions, whales, pandas and eagles
appear in various guises: splendid,
charming, cute or simply fascinating—and,
above all, safe. But everything is not happy—
go-lucky in penguin land, nor is it business
as usual in the jungle these days. As Saving
the Wildlife reveals, these wild creatures
may someday survive only on ﬁlm—if we
fail to help them.

Already it’s too late to save several
species of tiger and lion; too late for the
sea mink, quagga and Tasmanian wolf; too
late for the great auk, Arabian ostrich and
New Zealand quail; too late for . . .well, the
list goes on. To keep the list of extinct
wildlife from becoming longer, govern-
ments and individuals around the world
are working to protect endangered
species. In Saving the Wildlife, the Bay Area
director-writer team of Hardy Jones and
Julia Whitty (In the Kingdom of the
Dolphins; Secrets of a Desert Sea) surveys
various solutions to complex conservation
problems.

Two locations where Jones, Whitty and
executive producer Nat Katzman ﬁlmed
their documentary—Northwestern India
and East Africa—illustrate different
responses to the problem of endangered
wildlife. Overpopulation in both regions
has created demands for more grazing
land, and wild animals are paying the
price.

In Africa, the economic exploitation of
wildlife is shifting from slaughter to
preservation, now that the international
ivory and horn trade has decimated the
elephant and black rhinoceros
populations. With 95 percent of its rhinos
killed since 1970, Kenya has set aside four
rhino sanctuaries, where the surviving ﬁve
hundred animals will be locked up and
guarded—alive but hardly living as
wildlife.

JULIA WHITTY

Two at the endangered animals that are subjects

for concern on “8a ving the Wildlife. ”

Tourists on safari—~shooting photos
instead of animals—have helped game
preserves succeed where conserving
wildlife had been. until recently. a largely
foreign concept. “Wild animals will be
saved in Africa because they’re tourist
attractions,”Jones says. Conservation has
become an industry, now employing Masai
who once killed lions to protect their
cattle. But East Africa’s national parks are
still plagued by poachers.

Making this ﬁlm showed Jones that “it’s
incredibly expensive to the Earth to have
livestock on it.” Noting that the Ethiopian
catastrophe is the result of overgrazing, he
calls cattle “the second population
explosion.”

Nowhere is the cattle/wildlife conﬂict
more evident than in India, where cattle
outnumber people. The cow and the tiger
compete for the same land, and before
India banned tiger hunting in 1968, the
number of tigers had been reduced to two
thousand. The establishment of preserves
for these jungle animals has helped the
number of tigers increase to four
thousand. Impressed by the Indian
response to the tigers plight,Jones credits
“the Indians reverence for wildlife.” Not
tourism, but respect for animals, which
keeps the population of cows so high, is
the primary motivation behind India‘s
national park system.

Saving the Wildlife also shows Argentina.
China. Canada and Brazil protecting their
respective penguins. pandas. wolves and
monkeys. but one nation disregards others
good intentions. According to Jones,
“Japan is the single most thoughtlessly
exploitive country in the world." Citing its
aggressive economy. \X’r’hitty says. ”The
Japanese go in, rape an environment, make
their quick buck and get out." \X’hileJapan
has made efforts to save its own wildlife,
Jones says, “TheJapanese are perfectly
willing to pillage the rest of the world.“

After a years work on Saving the
Wildlife, how do Jones and Whitty feel
about worldwide prospects for wildlife? 2
“I am more alarmed now than when I
started the project."Jones says. recalling
the sight of entire hillsides burned down
to produce charcoal in Africa. “Optimism
of the will and pessimism of the facts"
sums up Whitty‘s feelings; the amount of
effort going on in different countries to
protect animals encourages her.

Describing the ﬁlm as “an antidote" to
programs that simply tout the wonders of
nature, Whitty says, “It‘s irresponsible to
talk only about our great natural
environment and avoid the real problems
facing animals." Saving the Wildlife
reminds us that the resources needed for
saving tigers are resources we all need.
And whenJones says all animals are
endangered, he includes Homo sapiens.
the one animal with the power to correCt
imbalances in nature.

During an interview in the ﬁlm,Jane
Goodall, the chimpanzee expert, says. “If
you want to help animals—whether it‘s to
improve conditions in captivity or to help
in conservation efforts—you must capture
people‘s imagination. . . . If you don‘t. you
won’t help them one little tiny bit." By
exploring the global conservation crisis
and some creative approaches to solving it.
capturing our imaginations is just what

Saving the Wildlife does. I

 




 

u

 

~—

DALLASTIWS-IERALD Marchs 1986

Veterinarian Terry Blasdel is proposing a two- Sam
year study to find out why Marsabit, left, and Hou

‘ ‘, sister's w. 2-:.-:*+=t.». - ,
Associat Press

burn, a pair of rare White rhinos at Ithc
ston Zoo, have not mated. J

Some music, candlelight?

Houston Zoo wonders why rhinos-haven’t mated

Associated Press

HOUSTON —"- The Houston Zoo
was given the go-ahead Tuesday to
conduct a $57,600 study to ﬁnd out
why Samburu, a rare Southern
white rhinoceros, has failed for 15
years to impregnate his mate,
Marsabit.

The City Council approved with-
out comment the study of the rhi-
nos’ mating habits. The 200 will
apply for a $25,000 grant from the
US. Institute of Museum Services
and seek $32,600 in private
donatibns.

The study, which could take up
to two years to complete, also
would investigate developing a
method of artiﬁcial insemination
and establishing a central stud

farm in Houston for the beasts,
said veterinarian Terry Blasdel, a
reproductive physiologist and 200
research curator.

Samburu and Marsabit —- one of
25 pairs of white rhinos in captivity
in the United States — were cap-
tured in 1966 in Africa and brought
to the Houston Zoo ﬁve years later.

But Marsabit is 18 years old and
her biological clock is winding
down.

' “White rhinos have lived until
their 505, but they are reproductive
only untiltheir mid 205."

“More than 50 percent of the
white rhinos in the US. are be-
tween 10 and 20,” she said. “We’re
dealing with an aging population.
Time is running out.”

Samburu has shown interest in
Marsabit over the years, .Blasdel
said. .
“She’s a little larger than he is.
She chased him around and intimi-
dated him and he couldn’t do any-
thing,” Blasdel said. “He got all ex-
cited but he was still afraid. He
would charge up to her and then
stop.” .

Zoo officials think Samburu
needs a little competiton to stimu-
late his interest.

“There was a zoo in Tokyo that
made a papier-mache rhinoCeros
and put in with the rhinos and
they started breeding. Other. peo
ple have done things like put in
mirrors so the animals think that
there are more animals than there
actually are," she said.

 

 

 




ATLANTA JOURNAL/ CONSTITUTION - 3/ 15/ 86

,.;.Woman accused of _ “pinching”

' .By Jingle Davis '

' Special to The Journal-Constitution

SEA ISLAND, Ga. - An Atlan-
ta woman who owns a vacation
cottage on this exclusive resort is-
,'~ land has been accused of hiring a
laggthief to kidnap a dog whose bark-
ing bothered her.
, Glynn County Chief of Detec-
tives Carl Alexander saidWight
Crawford Tillman, 50, was arrested
last week on a police warrant

charging her with felony theft by
. taking. 7 .
Raymond Baumel said he re-
covered Argus, his missing 6-year-
old Doberman pinscher, from a
man who claimed that he had been
paid $250 to steal the dog. ~

whose cottage is adjacent to his at
the end of Sea Island Drive, had
complained frequently about Argus’
barking for several years.

 

“She called me constantly,”
Baumel said. “I don’t let the dog
out until 11 in the morning. I take
him in at 5 in the afternoon.” Bau-
mel said Argus and another Dober-
. man that does not bark are let out-
side only in a dog run adjacent to
his house. .

‘ Sea Island

3 Baumel, owner of Sadye’s Spe-
cialty Sh0p, an expensive women’s
wear shOp onSt. Simons Island, .
said he was on an around-the-world _
trip in January when his house- "
keeper called him in Athens,
Greece, to {El him Argus, his AKCe ' y ..
regis’ered’ 355° “berm” was ' Mrs. Tillman, who declined t.°
missing. " l‘ I comment about the incident Fri-
After Baumel advertised in a day, posted bond 9f $2,101.50 after
'1 local newspaper. offering a “gener-. her arrest, according to records at
.ous” reward for the dog’s return, the Glynn County Jail. .

l:

According to Baumel, the man,
who has not been charged in the in-
cident, agreed to give a deposition
to police implicating Mrs. Tillman.

Baumel said Mrs. Tillman,

 

Doberman

. he said a man contacted him and
offered to sell Argus for $260.

_"‘We went over to town and
met him at one of the sandwich
places,” Baumel Said: “I got the
dog back, a bag of bones, but he
was all right.”

Adoptive family reunites golden retriever ‘mateS’

United Press International

DENVER — Rovey and Red,
two golden retriever mates separat-
ed after their owner set them free
in a suburban neighborhood, have
been reunited and will live together
with a new owner. '

The dogs will be neutered on
Saturday and then go home with
Phil and Sheri Stock, who adopted
the dogs Friday. ‘

Mrs. Stock said the dogs recog-
nized each other immediately when
they were reunited at the Denver
Dumb Friends League shelter
Thursday night. '

The-Stocks, who have an 11-
‘year-old daughter and a 14-year-old
son, had a golden retriver who died
unexpectedly in November. '

. i James Gambow," a construction
worker, found the female, Rovey,

last week. She had a plastic sand- '

wich bag around her neck with a

- note inside that read: “My mate and

I have been traveling on the road.

‘ Give us some food and water. We

need a home together since we are
good friends.”

But the dog’s “mate” Was no-
where in sight. .

The note tied to Rovey said both
dogs understand commands to lie
down, stay and come. ,

“We are very gentle,” the note
said, “and we like to just lay around
the house, being very good dogs.
Please find us a home together.”

Local news media publicized for

several days Gambow’s search for

 

”n

the missing dog. Gambow said he

would hold on to Rovey until the ‘

other dog was found.

Gambow received a letter from t
the woman who abandoned the dogs. .

She enclosed a snapshot of the two
dogs together. The anonymouswom-
an said she had to give up the two
pets because she had three others.

‘ On Thursday, Gambow took Ro-
vey to the Denver Dumb Friends

League, where another golden re- f
triever, a burly male with dark red
fur, had been drOpped off afew

days before.

i
t

Gambow said the dog, named :

Red by the shelter staff, resembled
the dog in the photograph, and Ro-
vey’s response proved he- was her
mate.

l
l
l

l

l

 




Tango Saves Owner
From Killer Cow

Vote for this brave, sick, aging pooch for Dog Hero of the Year

CONTEMPORARY MAGAZINE SECTION
SUNDAY DENVER POST
March 9, 1986

ByDAVEBARRY
Knight~Ridder News Service

HE MARCH 15 deadline is

almost upon us, and my _

guess is that you haven’t

voted for Dog Hero of The

Year. When people ask me:

“Dave, what is WRONG
with this country, anyhow?” I am forced
to reply: “What is wrong with this coun-
try is that people would rather sit in front
of their television sets watching Joan Col-
lins reveal the vast majority of her
breasts than vote for Dog Hero of the
Year.”

As usual you think I am making up the
whole concept of a Dog Hero of the Year
election, and as usual you are wrong.

I have a news release right here stating
that this is an actual event sponsored by
the Ken-L Ration Co., which has been
honoring America's Most Heroic Dog for
32 years. The release also states that last
year’s winner, Leo, a white standard
dle from Texas who saved two children
frtom a snake, “became a national celeb-
1'] y."

The release does not state whether this
means Leo was on with Merv Griffin, or
dated Elizabeth Taylor, or what, but
whatever it means, I think we can agree
that dogs, especially today’s dogs, need a
celebrity role model to look up to, and we
should all, as citizens, do our part to elect
the next Dog Hero, based on heroic achievement in 1985.

Here are some rules:

1. This is for dogs only. No cats. You would have to have
a completely different set of standards if you wanted to
detect heroism in cats. Like, the winning cat would be one
that came across a man who had fallen and broken his leg
in a remote mountain area, and the cat, realizing the man
was totally helpless and would probably die unless some-
prie found him, nevertheless refrained from takm‘ g his wal-
e .

2. You have to vote for one of the eight finalists selected
by the official Ken-L Ration panel. Write-in dogs are not
permitted. If they were, I would urge you to vote for my
own dog, Earnest, who on two separate occasions, without
hesitation and without concern for her own safety, tried to
kill the Federal Express man.

But the Ken-L Ration panel came up with some pretty
darned heroic dogs too. I’ll review them briefly here, so
you’ll beable tomake aninformedvoting ' ' ' ’

. ’ ~ '
,v’ﬂdwul' ‘
I ,'
\ , ‘ .

great and free democratic tradition. Then I’ll tell you
which one to vote for.
' ' are: ,

V BOOMER, a miniature poodle who “aroused (his
mistress) from her slumber by licking her face and pulling
her ear” to alert her that her elderly mother had been
“knocked to the floor by a falling suitcase.”

w BOOTS, a Shetland Sheepdog who alerted her family
to “high levels of carbon monoxide gas in their home” by
“barking, pawing and licking.”

w DUNCAN, a golden retriever who rescued his young
mistress from an alligator attack when he “barked fierce-
ly, causing the alligator to retreat.”

u/ FRISKY, a Pomeranian who led its owner to his
wife, who had fallen on an icy road. The release further
states that: “The spunky dog also helped stop a passing car
by jumping up and down.”

V GEFFY, a bull mastiff who towed his mistress, her
friend and “a pug named Beaner” to shore when the cur-
rent of f the Florida coast got too strong for them.

decisioninihe... .w_ RASTAS, a Weimaraner-Doberman who works on ,

Joe McKenzie‘s charter boat, which is a
good thing because Rastas has towed in
“several near-drowning victims,” several
“divers who found the current too
strong” and “both of McKenzie‘s grown
sons on separate occasions.”

V SAM, a German shepherd-border
collie who, when a mail carrier had an
automobile accident, rupturing her
spleen, “was alert and began barking"
and then led his owners to the scene.

V TANGO, a border collie-Australian
shepherd owned by Al Choate of Port
Townsend, Wash, who “saved his master
when he stepped the brutal attack of an
angry cow last August. When a cow with
a newborn calf attacked Choate, Tango
bit into the cow’s lip and held on, allowing
Choate time to crawl away.”

OK, voters. We face a difficult decision
here. I know I speak for all of us when I
say I’d be proud to have any of these fine
animals hold the title of America’s Bra-
vest Dog.

But when we take a moment to paws
(ha ha!) and reflect upon what this honor
really entails (whoooeeel), we have to
admit to ourselves that the‘dog most
deserving of our support, especially if we
are aware of the magnitude of danger
represented by an angry cow, is Tango.

I was so struck by Tango‘s deed that I
called his owner, Al Choate, to ask him
about it, and he said that Tango bit the
cow more on the cheek than the lip. “A

cow‘s lip would be hard to bite,” he pointed out. But other
than that, be confirmed the whole story. “I thought I was a
goner,” he said, this being probably the first time that ex-
pression has been used in the past 40 years outside of
“Gunsmoke.” t

Tango is getting old, Choate says. She is 13 now, and
semi-crippled. He gives her aspirin. Her herding days are
almost over. “She goes and gets the calves every night,"
Choate said, “but not the cows. I can’t let her get the cows,
because they get her down and beat her up."

So my position, fellow voters, is this: By all means,
make up your own mind, but anybody who doesn’t vote for
this brave, sick, aging dog who gets beat up by cows is a
Nazi.

Send your ballots by March 15 to Ken-L Ration Dog Hero
of the Year, PO Box 10446, Kansas City, Mo. 64111. Then,
if you drink beer, have a beer in honor of Tango. And a
hamburger.

(03 V9 Barry is 3 humor writer for the Miami Herald.)

 




 

HOUSTON CHRONICLE - March 7, 1986

Cast your vote today for Dog He

The March 15 deadline is almost upon us,
and my guess is that you haven’t voted for
Dog Hero of the Year. When people ask me:
“Dave, what is wrong with this country, any-
how?” I am forced to reply: “What is wrong
with this country is that people would rather
sit in front of their television sets watching

 

 

 

 

Joan Collins reveal the vast majority of her
breasts than vote for Dog Hero of the Year.”
- As usual, you think I am making up the
whole concept of a Dog Hero of the Year
election, and as usual you are wrong. I have a
news release right here stating that this is an
actual event sponsored by the Ken-L Ration
Co., which has been honoring America’s Most
Heroic Dog for 32 years. The release also
states that last year’s winner, Leo, a white
standard poodle from Texas who saved two
children from a snake, “became a national
celebrity.” The release does not state whether
this means Leo was on with Merv Griffin,
dated Elizabeth Taylor or what, but whatever
it means, I think we can agree that dogs,
especially today’s dogs, need a celebrity role
model to look up to, and we should all, as
citizens, do our part to elect the next Dog
Hero, based on heroic achievement in 1985.

The Ken-L Ration panel came up with some
pretty darned heroic dogs. I’ll review them
briefly here, so you’ll be able to make an
informed voting decision in the great and free
democratic tradition. Then I’ll tell you which
one to vote for.

The finalists are:

0 Boomer, a miniature poodle who
“aroused (his mistress) from her slumber by
licking her face and pulling her ear” to alert
her that her elderly mother had been
“knocked to the floor by a falling suitcase.”

0 Boots, 3 Shetland sheepdog who alerted
her family to “high levels of carbon monoxide
gas in their home” by “barking, pawing and
licking.”

0 Duncan, 3 golden retriever who rescued
his young mistress from an alligator attack
when he “barked fiercely, causing the alliga—
tor to retreat.”

O Frisky, a Pomeranian who led its owner
to his wife, who had fallen on an icy road. The
release further states: “The spunky dog also
helped stop a passing car by jumping up and
down.”

0 Geffy, a bull mastiff who towed his mis—
tress, her‘riend and “a pug named Beaner” to
shore when the current off the Florida coast
got too strong for them.

0 Rastas, a weimaraner-Doberman who
works on Joe McKenzie’s charter boat, which
is a good thing because Rastas has towed in
“several near-drowning victims,” several “di-
vers who found the current too strong” and
“both of McKenzie’s grown sons on separate
occasions.”

0 Sam, 3 German shepherd-border collie
who, when a mail carrier had an automobile
accident, rupturing her spleen, “was alert and

r0 of the Year

Boston veterinarian Dr. Bud Keller tends to King, a 9-year-old German shep-
herd who was shot four times while trying to protect his owner from an intruder.
Nice try, King, but it didn‘t get youvnominated as America’s Most Heroic Dog.

Maybe next year. '

began barking” and then led his owners to the
scene. .

0 Tango, a border collie-Australian shep-
herd owned by Al Choate of Port Townsend,
Wash, who “saved his master when he
stOpped the brutal attack of an angry cow last
August. When a cow with a newborn calf at-
tacked Choate, Tango bit into the cow’s lip
and held on, allowing Choate time to crawl
away.” .

OK, voters. We face a difficult decision
here. I know I speak for all of us when I say
I’d be proud to have any of these fine animals
hold the title of America’s Bravest Dog. But
when we take a moment to paws (ha ha!) and
reflect upon what this honor really entails
(whoooeee!), we have to admit to ourselves
that the dog most deserving of our support,
especially if we are aware of the magnitude
of danger represented by an angry cow, is
Tango.

I was so struck by Tango’s deed that I
called his owner, Choate, to ask him about it,
and he said that Tango bit the cow more on
the cheek than the lip. “A cow’s lip would be
hard to bite,” he pointed out. But other than
that, he confirmed the whole story.

Tango is getting old, Choate says. She is 13
now, and semicrippled. He gives her aspirin.
Her herding days are almost over. “She goes
and gets the calves every night,” Choate said.
“but not the cows. I can’t let her get the cows,
because they get her down and beat her up.”

So my position, fellow voters, is this: By all
means, make up your own mind, but anybody
who doesn’t vote for this brave, sick, aging
dog who gets beat up by cows is a Nazi. Send
your ballots by March 15 to Ken-L Ration Dog
Hero of the Year, PO. Box 10446, Kansas City,
Mo. 64111. Then, if you drink beer, have a beer
in honor of Tango. And a hamburger.

Knight-Bidder Newspapers

 




ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH - March 2, 1986

 

William
Childress

Out Of
, The Ozarks

The letter began: “Mr. William Childress --
This morning I read your column which you
titled “The Cruel Hand of Mercy.” I think that
you spelled mercy incorrectly, Mr. Childress,
because it really should have been spelled
MURDER.”

It was from the Animal Rights Alliance of
Missouri, and is one of 48 letters I received about
the above column. More on the letters in a mo-
ment —— first, I owe my readers an apology.

I apologize for not making clear that I had
called my vet and, after carefully describing the
dog’s symptoms, was informed that the animal
had advanced distemper and was doomed to
death by convulsions. .

The vet requested that, if I could, I put the
animal away. I did not mean any cruelty by this
action. To me, raised a rural youth, it seemed
the most merciful thing to do.

Another letter: “I know you to be a kind per-
son. When my mother wrote to you after my
father’s death, you wrote her a beautiful letter. I
thank you for that,»but I was horrified and don’t
understand why you killed the dog.”

My intention was to make bitterly clear that a
lot of people think the country is an ideal place
to dump the pets they have grown tired of. It is
not an ideal place. This area, one of the 10 most
poverty-stricken in the nation, has its hands full

 

 

 

just trying to keep food on the table. There is no

Humane Society truck to collect stray animals,
and the nearest shelter I know of is a 100-mile
round trip to Joplin.

So it is that rural folks often have the painful
task, as my task was painful, of putting stray
animals away. In addition, the Ozarks was a
national “hot spot” for rabies last year — my vet
informs me that as one result, more people now
vaccinate pets.

One long-time reader, a country lady, said
with sadness, “We, too, got rid of an unwanted
dropped-off dog. But I am not a good shot, and it
cost me $17.50 to have the vet do it. Why can’t
people spay their dogs and cats?”

Another woman wrote, “I’ve been your biggest
fan since Day One, until two minutes ago when I
read about “Wolf.” Maybe you had to do it, but
I’m sorry you wrote about it.”

In the three years since this column began, I
have tried to speak plainly and truly about the
Ozarks as I perceive them to be. That means, in
order to be true to myself, and to the readers
who — by their letters — realize this, I write
about both the bleak and the beautiful. Some-
times this makes for a tough catharsis, for both
writer and reader. I love my readers, but I can-
not write for them, nor can I elevate myself to
some false status if some expect it.

I am a plain man, not Procrustean, and far
more sinner than saint. But I believe that what I
did was my duty —— however distasteful.

A retired Marine colonel, a Vietnam pilot,

, wrote about once coming upon a crowd gathered

around a dying dog. The truck that had crushed
it fled on, and the animal was crying out in
agony. “I went to my car and got a .22 pistol and
put the dog out of its pain,” he wrote, “and my
own wife berated me for being a vicious killer.”

 

THE HOUSTON POST - March 10,

 

 

Post photo by Bruce Bennett

Dogged determination: More than 580
dogs put their best paws forward Sunday, hot-footing it
through downtown Houston with their owners in the ﬁfth
annual K-9 Fun Run, starting at Allen Parkway and Bagby.
Proceeds. of the event beneﬁted the Houston Humane Societv.

V

t

Pet Bumpers Create Pai

nful Tasks

The letters were mostly condemnatory —
about two-thirds -— some strongly so. One wom-
an wrote, “I hope they fire your fat About.
one third understood but all of them did no’
condone my action. Several letters expresses:
approval, and one reader wrote, “When Chil-
dress wrote that column on the dog he wasn’;
doing a Disney film. He was letting an awful lot
of city people know what happens to animals
they dump along the road.”

Since I have been away for a week, I’ve no
idea how many calls may have come in — here
or at the P—D. One woman did reach me, and
berated me for half an hour. Then she hung up
— only to call back “for my side,” which helped
mitigate her harsh position somewhat. Another
phoned to say she had read the column to her
two children, who were “saddened but not undu-
ly upset.”

A lady wrote, “We’ve been fans since arriving
here from New England 15 months ago. So it
should be no surprise to me that you could kill a
dog and think of it as the humane thing to do.
You’re probably right — but it’s a hard thing for
me to fathom.” ,

One long-time reader scolded, “Shame on you
for killing that dog! I enjoy your columns but
think you did badly this time. I hope your dad is
feeling better.” '

It’s a gray Ozarks day as I write this, and it’s
been just as gray inside me as I read these

' letters. I wish I could always just write lovely

things. But life, at least in the Ozarks, also holds
some bitter realities — like dumped, sick, starv-
ing dogs.

It’s during the bitter times that I am most sad
to be a writer.

 




MEMPHIS COMMERCIAL APPEAL - March 6, 1986

Patchwork healing

 

A rotary power tool is used to
sand the rough edges off a patch
on an Eastern Box Turtle shell.

Couple puts
turtle repair
on fast track

 

By John Beifuss
Staff Reporter

 

George and Donna Heinrich
have come out of their shells to an-
nounce their profession, pursuit
and passion to the world.

Said Ms. Heinrich: “We fix
broken turtles.”

For the past two years, the Hein-
richs have been refining tech-
niques to repair the shells of tur-
tles and tortoises that were in the
wrong place at the wrong time —
and the wrong time can be a long
time for a turtle, which needs
more than a two-minute warning
to get out of the way of oncoming
traffic and evil-eyed youngsters.

“People just see a broken turtle
and think he’s going to die,” Ms.
Heinrich said. “The public needs
to know there is a place for turtles
to be taken.”

That place is the Lichterman Na-
ture Study Center, 5992 Quince,
where Donna Heinrich is an am-

mal rehabilitator. George Hein-,

rich -— a lifelong turtle devotee
whose parents bought him “exotlc
tortoises” as a reward for good
grades -— works in the reptile
house at the Memphis Zoo.

Today, however, is the Hein—_

richs’ last at their jobs. This
weekend they’re moving to tur-
tle-rich Florida. They never
sought publicity, but now they
want people to know their work
will continue at Lichterman,
where employees have been
trained in the Heinrich school
of turtle repair.

Heinrich said turtle repair has
“gone all the way from masking
tape to fiberglass and epoxy.”
And, though it sounds funny,
that’s serious ecological busi-
ness. By saving individuals, tur-
tle repairmen are aiding vanish-
ing species.

“Turtles and tortoises are just
part of the overall web which
people are part of,” Heinrich
said. “It’s like a wheel —7 if an
animal species vanishes, it’s like
a spoke has disappeared. After
enough Spokes disappear, the
whole structure weakens. You
can have ecological collapse.”

1, Of course, this line of work

doesn’t bring much fame, except
at the annual conference of the
National Wildlife Rehabilitators
Association last month in Bos-
ton, where the Heinrichs pre-
sented their paper: “A Tech-
nique for the Repair of Chelon-
ian Shell Fractures, with a His-
torical Review of Shell Fracture
Repair.”

“Chelonian” is to turtles what
“bovine” is to cows.

“They seem boring, but turtles
are real interesting animals,”
Heinrich said. “They just move
so slow — sometimes they don’t
do anything for about a half an
hour. But if you have the time to
watch ’em, it’s really interest-
ing.”

In Florida, the Heinrichs will
work with the raré gopher tor-
toise. The burrows made by this
tortoise are inhabited by many

 

other creatures, such as snakes
and sand owls. “So if you can
save one tortoise, you’re actually
saving 18 or 20 other animals
that use its burrow,” Heinrich
said.

He said repaired gopher tor-
toises may be fitted with elec-
tronic transmitters, to “see if
males accept females with fi-
berglass across their shells.”

The Heinrichs have expanded
on work done by Dr. Fredric
Frye at the University of Califor-
nia-Davis. “We have taken a ve-
terinary surgical technique and
changed it so it can be applied by
lay people,” Ms. Heinrich said.

They repair shells with fiber-
glass cloth, like that used to re-
pair cars, and epoxy. The materi-
als are applied in three layers,
forming a sort of fast-drying
patch over the wound.

After it dries, it must be re-
moved from young turtles be-
cause the shell — which is bone
covered with fingernail-like
scales — is alive and growing.
“Otherwise, the young turtle
would suffer deformity,” Ms.
Heinrich said.

The Heinrichs ultimately hope
to apply their techniques to
brackish water and marine tur-
tles. They also plan to experi-
ment on broken shells with den-
tal acrylics and horse’s hoof-
repair material.

And, for the Heinrichs, turtle
work has been fulfilling on
more than a professional basis.
George and Donna married in
December after having worked
together in turtle repair for
many months. “So you could al-
most attribute that to the tur-
tles,” Ms. Heinrich said.

And since then, in the words
of the song, they’ve been “Happy
Together.”

 




FM.

 

 

Turtles can recover
frombroken homes

 

 

 

 

 

 

A fiber material and epoxy glue were
used to patch the broken shell of the
crossbred turtle above. One of its legs
was severely injured and was
amputated. At left, Heinrich checks on
a patch previously applied to a Florida
Box Turtle.

 




HOUSTON CHRONICLE - March 7, 1986

Hounding him to death

Pit bull is arrested after warrant issued in Clute cat’s slaying

 

By JOHN TOTH
Houston Chronicle

 

CLUTE —— Douglas the pit bull terrier finally got him- ~

self into a heap of trouble.

He now is the only dog on his block with a criminal
record.

After Municipal Judge Bobbie Smith signed a warrant
to arrest the dog, Douglas was thrown in the animal
pokey, where he remained Thursday in lieu of $11 in dog
pound fees. .

Douglas’ problems began. last month when neighbors
accused him of killing a cat.

The official charge against him is “dog running at
- large,” even though when Clute animal control officer
Keith Mooney went to arrest the dog, Douglas was
chained in the front yard, minding his own business.

“I was handed the warrant and was told to pick up the
dog,” he said Thursday while checking on Douglas’ condi-
tion. '

The pit bull was housed in a single-dog cage and gets to

' exercise when Mooney lets him run around. He is fed a
. diet of dry dog food once a day and receives a shower
. when his cage is cleaned each day.
Police Lt. John Langley washed his hands of the arrest
' by saying his department had nothing to do with turning
~ Douglas into a jailbird. Smith was out of town Thursday
and could not be reached.

Langley admitted that making the warrant stick is
going to be difficult, since Douglas was not read his
' rights and was not afforded a phone call.

“I wasn’t going to get on my knees and bark him his
" rights,” Mooney said. “I just showed the owners the ar-
" rest warrant and took him.” ~

Owner Yolanda Salazar said authorities may be bar-
king up the wrong tree.

- As far as she knows, Douglas was home when the cat
I' was killed.

“He was tied up. He just lays down most of the time.
There are lots of loose dogs in this neighborhood. Any one
of them could have killed the cat,” she said.

But Mooney said he had picked up the dog before and

returned him to the owner.

The last time Mooney and Douglas met, Douglas was
‘ going after a group of other neighborhood dogs, said the
officer.

Salazar attributes Douglas’ problems to the attention
pit bulls have received recently in the Houston media.

Douglas, who was just glad to get visitors, rolled in the

. 3.2.9. -..A'4._>,-.~,-..»~" -

”'12:.f‘win'l'

John Toth / Chronicle

Clute animal control officer Keith Mooney
strokes Douglas after the pit bull was arrested
for a cat’s slaying.

grass and ran around, but would not comment —— not even
one bark.

Mooney said the dog will be killed if owners don’t
claim him within 10 days. Salazar said she plans to Spring
Douglas from the pound and give him to a family mem-

ber in Baytown.

 

THE TAMPA TRIBUNE - March 12, 1986

Lgrféﬁs:

Reach Into Pocket
To Help‘ Cut Cats

This is in reference to the recent sei-
zure Of over 100 cats from a-cat breeder
by the Animal Protection League.

Three of our volunteers were involved
in helping the Animal Protection League
remove the cats from this residence.
After my interviews with our volunteers
about the cats and the condition they
were living in and the conditions of the
property, I can safely say the Animal Pro-
tection League was justified in its actions
and that this organization should receive
a standing ovation for what it did.

In my experience with the Animal

Protection League, I know that these cats
are receiving the best medical care possi-
ble. My major concern is where is the
public’s-support and concern for these
cats? I know with my own experience
with wildlife, that the Animal Protection
League must be incurring tremendous
bills for vet expenses, medicine, food, etc.

It is time for the public to reach out
and provide some help for this organiza-
tion. Society is the one who lets things like
this happen and it is time that society help
out. -

I am appealing to the public to reach
out and help these people help these cats .
by sending their tax deductible donations
to the Animal Protection League.

RAYMOND J. MOORE
Wildlife Rescue and Rehabilitation Inc.
Tampa

 




 

MEMPHIS COMMERCIAL APPEAL - March 8, 1986

Dog’s day in court brings stayof
_ e

Meek demeanor
of trained fighter
noted by judge

 

By Patti Patterson
Jonesboro, Ark., Bureau

HARRISBURG, Ark. -— Every dog has its day, and
one had hers in court yesterday.

The black pit bulldog — allegedly involved in il-
legal dogfighting — was spared the death penalty
after a 21/2-hour hearing. But a circuit judge said
the stay of execution was temporary, pending at-
tempts to rehabilitate the dog and the outcome of
criminal charges against her owner.

The dog, alOng with four others, was confiscated
last weekend by Poinsett County deputies when
they raided a dogfight at a farm. Ten men were ar-
rested and released after posting bonds, but the
dog remained locked in a box at the county jail.

A second dog was returned to its owner, and
three others were placed in a private kennel. The
kennel owner refused to take the dog from the jail,

saying she was too vicio’u-s‘y‘to remove from her
box. '

Sheriff Jim Carter‘testified the animal had
barked, snarled and growled all week. She repeat-

edly bumped against the sides of a 4-by-21/2-foot ’

dog carrier she was kept in, Carter said. Represen-
tatives of the Northeast Arkansas Humane Society

 

 

 

 

     

The dog, kept in a wooden box throughout yesterday’s hearing, was w

been very calm in the courtroom,” said Circuit
Judge David Burnett.

Judge Burnett, a former prosecutor who auth-
ored legislation against dogfighting, told defense
attorneys Wayne Mooney and Jim Dunlap they
had until 1:30 pm. Monday to find someone to keep
the animal. Dunlap represents the dog’s owner,
Brian Berry. Mooney represents seven of the men
arrested March 1.

Judge Burnett said the dogs still" held could be
released on $50,000 bond if their owners Signed
statements saying the animals would not be. 1n-
volved in fighting. He did not rule out the pOSSIbll-
ity of ordering the dogs put to death if the owners
are convicted of dogfighting. .

Carter testified the Hubbard yard contained a
vertical steel pole similar to those that horses are
attached to for exercising. There also was a small
treadmill, apparently used for .increasmg dogs
stamina in fights, he said. _ .

Mooney suggested the dev1ces mightbe used to
train dogs involved in weight-pulling competi-
tions. . - .

A trial for the 10 men probably Will be in May,
said Dep. Pros. Charles Easterling. All 10 men are
charged with dogfighting and cruelty to animals.

Some also face charges of fleeing and possessing .

drugs.

atchtul but qunot.

 

 




 

Adoptive parents urgedtousehorse sense

By ROBERT v. CAMUTO
Staff writer

FORT WORTH ~~ An obstio
nate 2-year«old mustang stud was
backed out of a trailer by a cou-
ple of wranglers who took turns
smacking his snout with a stick.

The stud and two yearlings,
adopted by an engineer on Satur-
day, were being herded back into
the Fort Worth Stockyards sale
pens on Sunday.

“Here in the corrals they‘re
great, but when you bring them
back in the open. they get wild
again,” said David Brantley. He
said all three of his new “pets"
hit the ground at his place run-
ning -—- after his neighbor’s mare.

“They broke right through that
barbed wire as though it wasn’t
even there,” Brantley said.

Sunday was the second day of

,. , ..VWW..~W..0.»

9811p; mo adios mﬁs‘iésiqt

 
  
  
 
  

the Bureau of Land Manage-
ment’s wild horse sale in which
45 mustangs were sold for $125 a
head.

Wild horses are sold for adop-
tion under a 1971 law to ease the
overpopulation of wild horses
and burros on Western ranges.

Bureau ofﬁcials, who have sold
more than 60,000 wild horses and
burros in the past 13 years, say
cases such as Brantley’s, in
which horses are entrusted to an
unprepared owner, are as rare as
cases of negligence and abuse.

But several national humane
societies and horse protection or-
ganizations claim the bureau
keeps mustangs in overcrowded
pens and then falls to protect
them from abusive or negligent
buyers.

“There’s a lot of money being

 

spent to round up the horses, but
not much spent on the adoption
program. The result is a lot of
cruelty to the animals," said
Cheryl Mouras~Goldsmith of the
Animal, Protection Institute of
America.

The institute and other animal
protection groups have filed a
lawsuit against the bureau in con-
nection with the recent malnutri-
tion deaths of almost 20 horses
on a Cooke County ranch and
other cases of alleged abuse.

In sales involving four or more
horses, the bureau inspects the
buyer’s ranch at the time of the

adoption and then again six

months later. After a year, all
sales are ﬁnal if the caretaker and
a veterinarian sign statements
saying the animals are in good
condition.

 

5.1..- -.|.-.-.'. {giggly}:.'.‘.‘.‘-‘ I-'.' .........
.......................

Stewart Austin and his son, Josh,

at the Bureau of Land lV'lanagement’s wild horse sale Sunday.

 

 

W .i -m‘rl’! X‘bu.'4l"ii:”* q-..,.

saoeqmo [8.131395

soils-I OI.“ ueemea purl in oﬁum claunq at" no

'13)] 93.1039

t . A . _ , , i,
, .- ' :.-.‘ - - 1 -‘
“Wt-i152 ' mi ~ .. ..

. .1.» .-.;:'tv4:¢‘.-:3’v:v‘ "t ,J-‘u

-.Iodmt $9 $1 saomosai [amiau s,A.nunoo am
ButAJasaJd iaqi Amsai mm pmaq oqm 91d
2‘ -oad 1110.1; sopnx Bundaooa sum ‘Iooqos Ami
«19111913 aouaimaq 191.133 JO [adtouud ‘ﬁas

 

Ana Venegas/Dallas Times Herald ‘

shop for a birthday present,

“mu/ts
7/»455

7
MEKﬁAD
aﬂﬂ/Qé

 

'sasuaiap sit ButAJasaJd 59 mm

‘ﬁqqol am 10 opts .131110 am no

 




MEMPHIS COMMERCIAL APPEAL - March 9, 1986

  
    

 

I

Hemphis
J Scale of mum ﬂ 7 ﬂ 7 I )5; P _. I LTD

TVA’s Lan s. ‘
Between,
' Lake -.

 

Staff mop

    

Kentucky

      
 

Land Between the Lakes under gun

 

By Laura Coleman
Jackson, Tenn., Bureau

 

LAND BETWEEN THE LAKES -- It’s started com-
ing every year here, just about the time of the wild
turkey hunt.

It’s caused the people who normally would be
camping along Lost Creek or hiking around the
Buffalo range to venture back toward US. 79 to
civilization.

Last week, the trek\ by the faithful of Land
Between the Lakes ended at Stewart County High
School gymnasium, where they voiced opposition
during a congressional hearing about the Reagan
administration’s plans to wipe out funding for the
170,000-acre vertical refuge.

With Stewart High seniors dressed in their
church clothes standing at doorways ready to help
the visitors, about 300 people listened Friday as
politicians and bureaucrats dominated the public
hearing about the proposed closing of LBL. After
more than three hours, the locals got their chance

 

to speak.
Few actually did, possibly because the score of
speakers before them spoke for them and possibly

because it was the second year the battle to keep ~

LBL has been waged, and their feelings have been
known. ‘

At issue is a recommendation by the Office of
Management and Budget that all funding for LBL
be eliminated. It was a recommendation sparked
by the administration’s interest in reducing the
federal budget deficit.

The same issue surfaced about this time last
year, when the idea died in a congressional com-
mittee; Now that the concern has been raised
again, those involved wonder if, like the turkey
hunt, it’s going to be just another annual event at
LBL.

The southern edge of LBL begins on the western
side of Stewart County, about 150 miles northeast
of Memphis.

More than 20 years ago, as the story goes, an:

 

 

or lake refuge
funds '

other president, John Kennedy, was ﬂying
'above LBL when he asked about the land
that, even from high above, appeared to be
an interesting isthmus. That bit of curiosity
began a series of land acquisitions by the
Tennessee .Valley Authority that still leave a
sour taste in the mouths of some of the for-
mer landowners. '

Since then, the 40—mile stretch of land
between Kentucky Lake and Lake Barkley,
Wthh spans parts of central Kentucky and

‘ Tennessee, has developed into something of

a. category in itself. As the politicians af-
firmed Fr1day,it’s not a federal park and it’s
not a wildlife refuge.

It has park areas, and it has wildlife. There
are campgrounus anu playgrounds, buffalo
herds and even a planetarium.

The results of Friday’s hearing won’t be
known until the federal budget is approved.
In the meantime, people like Jane and J ohn-
ny Gibson will continue to use LBL and won-
der how much longer it-will be available.

The Gibsons, who live near Kentucky
Lake in Henry County, became acquainted

with Fred Phipps and his wife, who live near

Clarksville in Montgomery County, during
visits to LBL several years ago. Since then,
they’ve become, as Phipps says, “fishing

. buddies?

The two couples stood in the lobby of the
Stewart High gym Friday while a spokesman,

for Sen. Albert Gore Jr. (D-Tenn.) read a pre-

tatement. _
”5313‘: Fred, let’s face it,” Mrs. Gibson said.
“There are a lot of things that could be
changed over there.”

After a little more serious talk about user
fees and restricted camping areas, Mrs. Gib-
son did a little bragging about her husband.

“John got the largest turkey out of LBL
last year,” she said.

 




Sat, Mar. 8, 1986

 

ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH.

» Bob
' Greene

 

 

 

Parrots Facing _
Vast Wasteland

S WE all know by now, there are

videotapes available to assist men
and women in just about every pursuit:
exercising, dressing correctly, making
a good business impression.

There is something new in the
realm of videotapes, though. A series
of tapes has been produced by Video
Data Services, of Roanoke, Va. The
videotapes are not aimed at humans.
They are aimed at birds. Specifically,
parrots.

“Our tapes are designed to teach
parrots to talk,” said Donald Williams,
president of the company. “We have
found that most people don’t have the
patience to teach their birds to talk.
Now the tapes can do it for them.”

Williams cites surveys stating that
there are 25 million households in the
United States that have pet birds. “We
think there’s a market,” he said. “We
have taken out advertisements in Bird
Talk magazine, and also in American
Cage Bird magazine. Those are the
publications that really reach bird
owners.”

Now . . . there is a certain stereotype
of people teaching their parrots to
talk. In the stereotype, the bird owner
sits in front of the bird cage and talks
in a voice meant to resemble that of
the late actress Margaret Hamilton,
who played the Wicked Witch of the
West in “The Wizard of 02,” as she
said “Ehhh, my little pretty!” to Judy
Garland. The voice is strained and
raspy and high-pitched; the bird owner
does not say “Ehhh, my little pretty!”
to his bird; he says “Polly want a
cracker?” — but he says it in Margar-
et Hamilton's voice.

This, according to Donald Williams,
is now unnecessary.

“We’re not saying that-our video-
tapes absolutely have to replace hu-
man contact,” he said. “We’re just say-
ing that most people don’t have the
patience to train their parrots to talk.
The average parrot owner will buy his
bird, and then sit down and say “Hel-
lo" to it over and over for two or three
days. Then the owner will run out of
patience and stop working on it. The
problem is not the bird, it’s the bird
owner.”

0n Williams’ tapes, real parrots re-
peat phrases, so that an owner’s parrot
can look at another parrot on the TV
screen and learn from that TV parrot.
There are currently two tapes avail-
able, with a third in the production
stage. Each of the tapes features five
phrases. The TV bird repeats a phrase

\

..-;~'..'. ~":-,.
--.I o “I Y Lu.
D. '

1‘] “Ida.” -.i.r .
-5'»';~fQ;i-‘3‘r3 -
. ."l."‘l. 1.5%, .
. 1 ‘ I
.q ‘ n 4"
G“ u‘.‘ .

for 12 minutes; then the TV bird
moves on to another phrase. Bird own-
ers are advised to let their parrots
learn‘one phrase at a time; in other
words, stop the VCR after the 12 min-

: utes with one phrase, instead of going
on to the next. ‘

On the “beginner’s tape,” these are

' the phrases that the TV birds repeat:
, “Hello”; “I love you”; “Let me out”;

“Bye-bye”; and “Gimme a break.”

0n the “advanced tape,” these are
the phrases that the TV birds repeat:
“What you doin’, huh?”; “Hello, Char-
lie Brown”; “Who are you?”; “What’s
your name?”; and “I’m a green
chicken.”

Williams said that one of the stars of
the videotapes is his own parrot, Paco.

There have been audio bird-talk
tapes on the market for years, Will-
iams concedes, but he said that it is
much more effective to let a parrot
actually see other parrots talking. “If
you went down to the tropical jungles,”
he said, “you would see birds mimick-
ing each other back and forth. They
wouldn’t be saying words, but they’d
be doing the same jungle calls. They
pick up the same screams from each
other.” . f

As for why people want birds to talk
to them, Williams said, “I guess you’ve
got to be a bird owner to understand.
When that bird says its first word to
you there is such a feeling of ex-
citement. And it’s nice to come home
‘at the end of the day and have your
bird say something to you.

“But trying to teach the bird to say
that first word —— that’s the frustrating
part. You’ll be sitting there for hours,
saying the same word over and over.
Maybe the bird will say nothing at all.
Maybe it will just make noises. Maybe
it will say a completely different
word.” -

Williams has one word of caution
for people who purchase his tapes:

“Don’t sit there with your bird and
watch the tape. The tapes really aren‘t
made for people to look at. It’s just
very boring, seeing a bird on TV say-
ing the same words over and over.
During the time the VCR is turned on,
go out of the room and do something
else. Take a shower anything. But
please don’t watch the tape. It can
drive you crazy.”

 




 

7"“ By CHARLES HILLINGER, Times Staff Writer

RIVERDALE Calif. -Fernando Alves is in the
rental business.

He rents geese.

° Every spring, farmers pay Alves $4. 25 per goose
to chomp away at weeds in cotton fields, vineyards
and other crops. The Chinese white geese, or weeder
geese, have a voracious appetite for weeds.

When the geese have done their job, farmers
return the birds to Alves at his weeder geese
hatchery" 1n this hamlet 1n southern Fresno County.

Farmers receive a refund of 50 cents per goose.

., Alves, _ 33, runs the last of the weeder. geese
hatcheries in California. _

“There are only a handful of weeder geese

operations left in America," Alves said. “It's a dying
business.

“Since ancient times, farmers always used geese
to keep weeds out of their crops. But“ 1n recent years
chemicals have become popular for controlling
weeds, replacing most of the geese.”

Alves rents 20,000 weeder geese a year to farmers
throughout California. He ships weeder geese chicks
to other states.

“Farmers find it easier, although more costly, to
spray crops with chemicals to control weeds than to
have to worry about geese in the fields,” Alves
explained.

He said it costs $12 to $15 an acre to have geese

JOHN MALMIN
ﬁernando Alves with work force; Alves rents as few as 60 geese to some farmers, as many as 4,500 to others who have a larger weed problem.

1.“. w

onkIf You Want to Ken“: Real Weed Eater

weed a field, $40 to $50 an acre for chemicals.

Geese need an ample water supply, should be
fenced in and require protection from dogs and
coydtes. Alves rents as few as 60 geese to some
farmers, as many as 4,500 to others.

When the geese are returned he fattens them up
for a couple of months on a grain diet more
nourishing than weeds. Then he has the geese
butchered and dressed and sells them to restaurants
in San Francisco’s Chinatown.

The geese weigh seven to eight pounds and Alves
receives $5.50 for each one he sells.

Alves said he often eats chicken “but never geese.
That would he like eating my employees,“ ’he said.

 

—.. ——-——— -~——




SAN FRANCISO EXAMINER - SUNDAY PUNCH - March 9, 1986

‘Liﬁle blimps’ learn that food
is not a dog’s best friend

h . . ‘ I
. , .. .
,_
».t ‘2.
> ' .a- '..l '
~- . y_. f . _, ‘7; " ..: . i
5-— ‘g . ‘
' ' . 3.1-.
- , ,. '4’ 1 .. ‘
, 41 "L
t. a

# For Chubby

 

BY ROBIN CHOTZINOFF

 

hen humans induced the

noble canine to give up

living off the fat ofthe

land and become a tame

house pet, they turned man’s best friend

into quite a porker. And it’s doggone
tough for dogs to diet.

It‘s not enough to cut down on the Alpo. A
dog needs someone who understands that food,
even for dogs, can become an obsession, someone
who understands that a well-padded pooch ain’t
nothin’ but a round dog. ‘

Bobby Christiansen is that someone. That’s
why owners of corpulent canines all over the
West stash their pets aboard planes to Denver.

The portable kennels are met by Christian-
sen, who operates the Rocky Mountain Training
Center, a kind of Betty Ford Center for canines
who can’t quit, located in the middle of nowhere
between Berthoud and Mead, Colorado.

It‘s not exactly the Golden Door, but it’s the
closest thing the dog world has.

Christiansen, 40, grew up in the San Francis-
co Bay Area around bird dogs and helped her
sister with a 4-H project to raise guide dogs for
the blind. After she took her first dog to an
eight—week obedience course, the instructor
asked her to work for him.

She’s been training dogs ever since. Her own
training center has been Open for 61/2 years, and
its reputation as a haven for the heavy has, well,
grown.

The primary function of the center is to train
hunting dogs, but even the first step of that
process often involves slimming the dogs down so
the workouts won’t hurt them.

The fat dogs come from all walks of life,
assuming that their owners can afford a month’s
stay at the training center, which runs $450. They
are hunting dogs, house dogs, big retrievers and
“little blimps," as Christiansen calls them.

Some come in at double their proper weight,
but most need to lose only 10 or 20 pounds.

Why is it that some dogs stay thin and others
don’t? “They’re just like humans,” says Christian-
sen. “Dogs get fat because they eat too much.
Most commercial dog food is made to taste yum-

my yummy. Dogs don’t need that. It makes food
too big a deal.” '

At the training center, the daily diet consists
of a half cup of special high-protein, low-filler
dog food —— and all the dogs here are big dogs.

“Sometimes the dogs will look at this little
bowl of food and, boy, they’ll just go into a frenzy
and scarf it down, and you just feel sorry for
them,” Christiansen’s assistant, Rex Christopher,
3.2,.says. “But then they get to eating less of it and
liking it more. It takes a while though.”

Christiansen adds: “We see it so often. People
don t even . realize it. They think they’re only
feeding their dog four cups of food a day, but the

ticigl is also getting three cups of junk from the
a 3 c.” *

Christiansen suggests that lavishing praise on

the dog is the proper substitute for that special
treat. “Of course, that depends on the breed, too.
A terrier could care less about praise. They al.
ready know they’re wonderful. It’s all in your
tone of voice.” .

And ChristOpher, a burly, bearded man who
looks like a throwback to Olde England, has the.
voice for the job. ‘

“The puppies have got to lose weight!” Chris-
topher says. “Fat can ruin their bone structure. It
can pull that muscle right off the bone and that
kind of stuff!” The dogs around him seem to
comprehend perfectly.

They also seem able to tell when he is talking
about them individually, and they go into a f reno
zy, hopping up and down on their hind legs until
he pets them through the wire of their kennel
cage.

“A good hunting dog should be able to run 15,
.20 miles a day, no sweat,” he says. “But some of
these fat old dogs can barely go a quarter of a
mile without collapsing, and then, of course, I got
to take ’em down to the pond here and put ‘em in

 




the water to cool them off. But, you know,
they’re just like people. You can’t push ’em into
exercise. They might have a heart attack.” He

The most important part of the day and the
part the dogs really look forward to, says Chris-
tiansen, is working. Most of them are bred to be

bird dogs, and the desire to retrieve the bird is
worked back in as the desire to chow down on
lots of dog food is worked out.

looks stricken just thinking about it.

It’s a good thing the dogs listen to Christo-
pher, because some of them have big problems.

even bigger than overeating. Some are social
misfits: they fight with other dogs or are case-
hardened cat killers. Some are afraidof .guns,
which is rough if the dog‘s job is to hunt birds.

Whether their problem is eating too much
puppy chow or too many cats, the; dhogs men}
to ether in the kennel, regardlesso t eir soc1a . , . . ‘ . '
stagnding. Christiansen also brings some of her Flnall), in the evening. there sthat minus-
canine clients up to her house, where she has two cule packet of dog food to 1991; forward t0.

personal pets. ' Christiansen admits that she has had a few

ite the s artan diet, more dogs are try- ‘ “clients” that lost weight at the training center

inc {:8th into thg center than to get out. PeOple, only to come back a few months later fatter than

D ' ' . a y 0 rs - ‘

bandon their strays near the training ex er. Sometimes they re puppies she has bred

_ tend to a herself, in which case she takes them up to her
center, just as orphans once were abandoned house and gives them a 5mm talking-to.

near manSions or universities.

“A lot of the breeds have lost the instinct,
though,” she says. “The birdiness is gone. So I just
give them something else to think about. They‘ll
do anything out of a love to work and a love to
work for you. I teach ’em to go out and retrieve a
Tonka toy. Or to obey hand signals. Or to sit down
at the sound of a whistle. They love it.”

Most owners, however, are thrilled with their
pets‘ new silhouettes. “They get kind of confused
though,” Christiansen says. “Their dog is always
all, “,8 no . ‘ . . _ glad to see them, but after he says hello, he wants
with br 823133511? 383‘: lggofgem‘sﬁlggu $1225?ng to head out to the field and work. He doesn’t want
mountains. . to hang around and soc1alize. Sometimes, too,

" .. - they worry tha

Fat dogs get as many as four walks a day. In .., them.” ,. .,
the summer, there’s supervised swimming, and " ” ‘i‘ " " ‘
each day begins with what Christiansen calls
“unsupervised fun time”: While a dog’s kennel is ,
being cleaned, it is allowed to “run up and down ..:
and harass the other dogs.” ‘

Eventhe formerly fat dogs sometimes seem
to prefer not to go home, Christiansen says. After

 

Christiansen says things have quieted down
at the Rocky Mountain Training Center since the
holidays when “all the little blimps were here.”

up at the house, two golden retriever
puppies, chubby but not too fat, are waiting to go
out and work. No bigger than large cats, they‘re
already hooked on bringing back the bird. They
have full bowls of food, but, hey, it's no big deal.
With a life like this, who needs another hobby?
Who needs to make eating a career?

Eat your heart out, Elizabeth Taylor.
Copyright I936 Wore/s by W '79“ ....

 

 

.. .-.x~.»x’.:‘ . ..

'A couple of the chubbier clients take a bredk during one of their daily workouts

 




SAN FRANCISCO EXAMINER - March 9, 1986

Moviecanines
put on the dog

 

By Michael Sragow
exams move came

HE BEST dog
performance in
recent years is
given by Mike,
the Scottish border col-
lie with a black and
white coat and brown
and blue eyes, who spiri-
tually as well as physical-
ly lives up to the name
Matisse in “Down and
Out in Beverly Hills.”
He’s an exceptionally
sweet animal, and a Re
land Barthes-reading
friend of mine insists
that his success should
,be ascribed simply to his
“essential doggy-ness”
But in fact, that‘s not
all he’s called on to ex-
press in the Paul Mazur-

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘

sky movie. For part of

what makes Matisse neu- Matisse --Imore than a dog?

rotic is that he doesn‘t

know what it means to be a dog
- that’s what Jerry the bum
(played by Nick Nolte) has to
teach him.

Matisse is the reverse of the
poor S&M freaks in the Roger
Corman exploitation movies,
“Latino" and “Streetwalkin‘,”

who go down on four paws, dr .

up in dog chains and ham _, _
and bark when they feel -
leash. He mirror ‘the confu

of the rest of the lteman fam- ’5

ily (Richard Dre34uss, Bette Mid-
ler and childreﬁ), who ve part1
pered themselves amtil they ve
lost track of their basic instinctu-
al needs.

“Dow’nrand Out in Bezv
Hills” is shaggy dog sto '
Which the man Jerry is a’aﬁag-
gy dog ~§nd theadogs ”We
like shaggy shumanSa That
doesn’t just include Matisse, bid
the dog Jerry loses atfthe' begin.
ning, a mixed -terrief named
Kerouac, played by Corky. ‘3‘.-

Near the end, Jerry tries and
fails to return to his bum state

and eat from an opened pate tin f

he‘s filched from a dumpster.
The Whitemans, looking on,
flash ambiguous smiles; only Ma-
tisse locks distraught and whim-
pers. He hasn’t merely learned
what it is to be a dog; he senses
[what it means to be a man.

The current wave of dog-ma-
nia in movies may peak with Ma-
tisse, but it didn’t start with him.
And most of the star dogs have
been characterized in a much
less anthropomorphic way.

Even Disney acolyte Steven
Spielberg has immortalized the
suburban family dog simply for

' being the suburban family dog

with Harvey in “E T. ” and espe
22 in “Poltergeist,"
strated, right from
~an1ncontrovert1ble
fact about these animals —
they’ re aiways :hungry.
ence the}, pass toilet training
these dogs stay in a state of di-
vine infancy. They’re Peter Pans
on all fours Spielberg’s dogs pro
wide what the Whitemans are
{editing for 111 “Down and Out in
Beverly Hills" ~47. a tension free
emetienal baseline for their fam-

\As God, and Godard, know,

:: dogs have had a paw in the mov

ies ever since Mack Sennett's si-
.'ient comedies. Some have been
stars, like Rin Tin Tin and Lassie;
others have been great support-
ing actors, like Pete in the “Our
Gang" comedies.
If R.T.T. was a superhero
boasting almost extra-canine

 

powers, Pete, who had a circle sur-
rounding one eye, served as a comic
punctuation mark. But dogs like
the Spielberg canines are permit-
ted just to be themselves.

It’s hard to think of another
movie era when dogs played such
visible roles in so many popular or
“hip" motion pictures. We’ve even
had the “Paws” version of “Jaws" in
Stephen King’s “Cujo,” which turn
ed a benign St. Bernard rabid, com-
pelling him to act with the treach-
ery one usually associates with Do-
berman pinschers. When Chevy
Chase was threatened by Dober-
mans in “Fletch” he quipped,
“Down, Cu jo.”

Although there have been homi-
cidal Dobermans in two other re-
cent releases, “Wildcats” and “Re-
1110 Williams: The Adventure Be-
gins,” these other sons of Cujo are
strictly exceptions. What we’ve
been seeing is an unparalleled epi-
demic of literal puppy love.

Bill Murray summed up the emo-
tional tone of this outbreak when,
as the ne'er-do-well recruit in
“Stripes,” he managed to unite his
troop by forcing his fellow soldiers
to admit that they all cried at “Old
Yeller.”

In recent weeks, we’ve wit-
nessed a parade of movie canines
who’ve managed to bring an ineffa-
ble soupcon of emotionalism to
both comedy and drama, while
demonstrating that the dog 15 man’s
best friend ——- and sometimes, other

, animals’, too. Take just three exam-
~ pies:

Din “The Best of Times" (al
1ead1 a piime candidate for the
most unfairly oveilooked mo1ie of
19861, everything builds to the cli-
max, in which a 1972 high school
football team from Taft gets a
chance to reunite and beat arch-ri-
vals from Bakersfield. But as the
contest is decided, the face that
most eloquently mirrors its ups,
downs, catastrophes and miracles
belongs not to any human Taft citi-
zen -— not even to any member of

 




the Caribou lodge —~ but to a half-
chow, half-husky named Buck, Who
wears a spiffing green rah-rah hat
, and acts as honorary mascot to
Taft’s Rockets. This lucky dog is a
born re-actor; When it starts to rain,
there’s no more potent expression
; of sadness and befuddlement than
the wave of his head and the shiver
of his back. Buck is the dog as vali-
dator, expressing with mute elo-
quence the primal emotions of the

crowd. .
C] In the controversial “Hail

c

Bin

Tin Tin

A superhero
boasting
aunost
extra-canine
powers

Mary,” Jean-Luc Godard’s pres-
ent-day retelling of the Nativity
and Annunciation, Joseph, a cab-
driver, is confused and frustrated
by his fiancee Mary’s insistence on,
vprotecting her purity. During these
long days and nights on call in the
cab, to whom can he talk and vent
his concerns? That self-absorbed
virgin, Mary? No —'— his big old
trusty mutt, Arthur (played by
“Dick”l. If I remember correctly, at
one point he even reads the animal
a book called something like “A Fu-
ture for the Dogs.” (Maybe it was
called “A Theology for the Dogs”)
. Arthur gives us the dog as stoic.
companion, helping his buddy face
what seems like eternal longing.

[3 One of the few innovations in
the movie version of lbsen’s “The
Wild Duck” is that we actually get.
to see an intrepid hunting dog save
the title bird. He simply won’t allow
it to do what‘wild ducks normally
do when they get winged -— nestle
in the mire and die. Nothing else in
the movie can match this heroic

canine act. It offers vivid contrast '

to lbsen’s vision of a human world
that rests not on nature, but on

—————
Disclaimer

To avoid the upset that result~
ed when Marine Jahan didn’t
receive credit for doing some of
Jennifer Beales' dancing in
“Flashdance.’l The Examiner ad-
mits that the paw print on the
Style cover belongs to Bentley,
Warren Hinckle’s basset hound,
not to Mike. ‘

as

useful lies. When it comes to cor-
rect action in thenatural world, get
a dog.

Perhaps the best explanations
for the appeal of dogs in contempo-
rary culture come from (of all

places) Milan Kundera’s extraordi- -

nary novel, “The Unbearable Light-
ness of Being.” (It‘s now being pre-
pared for the screen by director
Philip Kaufman and screenwriter
Jean-Claude Carriere.) One of the
major characters is a German Shep-
herd/St. Bernard mutt named Kar-
enm.

in one way, this animal is as un-

usual as Matisse: “It is entirely possi-'
ble,” says its master, Tomas, “that a

female dog addressed continually
by a male name will deveIOp lesbian

. Pete

‘Our Gang '3’
great
supporting
actor

tendencies” — which comes true to
the extent that she favors her mis-

tress, Tereza, over Tomas.

For the most part Kar in is the
most conVentional and w olesome
of beasts, a rock of stability in the
characters’ otherwise volatile lives.‘

Near the end, Karenin inspires‘

Kundera to ruminate on the beauty
of the love between animals and

.pe0ple: “True human goodness, in

all its purity and freedom, can

come to the fore only when its re-
cipient has no power.”

Because Tereza isn’t obliged to
act lovingly with Karenin, as she is’
with Tomas, her affection for the
dog isn’t diluted by pragmatism or
necessity. It is “a completely selfless
love.”

There’s also a mystical compo-
nent to their bond: No human can
provide “the gift of the idyll” —— a
complete pastoral peacefulness and
simplicity. “Only an animal can do
so, because only animals were not
expelled from Paradise. The love
between dog and man is idyllic. It

Buck

High school
i: honorary
mascot in
~ ' ’Best of
Times'

knows no conflicts, no hair-raising
scenes”. . ,

Kundera writes, “Karenin pro-
vided Tomas and Tereza with a life
based on repetition,” and Tereza

,, thinks to herself, “happiness is the

longing for repetition.”

Matisse is toovconfused to offer
that to the Whitemans in “Beverly
Hills.” And in his other perfor.
mances, Mike has continued to take
on upsetting human characteris-
tics, as when, in a recent “Saturday
Night Live” he portrayed himself as
an ex-roommate of Randy Quaid‘s.
As Quaid dined with the overnight
acting sensation, he begged the dog
to help get him a part in Mike’s next
picture. Mike shook his head, giving
Quaid a flat “no.”

“The Unbearable Lightness of
Being" probably won’t reach movie
theaters until a year or two after
“Beverly Hills” leaves them. But the
timing may be right. For by then,
audiences may have tired of the
human-animal hybridity of Mike”
Perhaps they’ll be ready for the
true essential doggy-ness of Karen-
m. -

 




TAMPA TRIBUNE — March 10,1986

west Shore Plaza cancels petting
zoo this year

An economic decision cauSed the cancellation
of the Easter Animal Farm, which last year

drew more than 40,000 visitors.

 

By LENORA LAKE
. Tribune Staff Writer

After 12 years, West Shore
Q Plaza’s popular Easter Animal
Farm, which featured a petting zoo
of goats, sheep, chickens and other
' farm animals, will not be staged this
i; year.

' It was “simply a business deci-

'sion,” West Shore Plaza General.

-Manager John Jovich said.

“It was just too expensive for
what we were getting out of it,” said
A.B. Bryant, manager of West
Shore’s JCPenney’s and a member
of the mall’s board of directors. He
added that the directors and mail
management said they felt the dis-
play “did not generate the amount of
people needed for the amount we
had to spend to put it on.”

Last year 40,000 people ~— in-
cluding some school classes on field
trips —- went through the petting zoo
portion of the farm, according to
Sharon Grossenbacher of Dade City,
who staged the farm along with

about eight other friends/business

partners.

“And that doesn't count the peo—
ple who just stood outside the railing
and watched,” Grossenbacher said.

 

From there, “it just got to be a
tradition,” 'she added.

“We have kept guest books, and
the comments have always been ter-
rific,” Grossenbacher said. “We
have had people write that they
have come all the way from Orlando
to show their grandchildren the ani-

mals.”
Some schools and preschools

‘ took children on field trips to see the

animals.
“Our children always enjoyed it

. —— not just the little ones but the ones

all the way up to the seventh grade
or so,” said R.W. Palmer, headmas-
ter of Beach Park Private School.
“Some of the city kids never get to
see things that were there any other
way.”

The school did not know the
event was canceled this year and
had planned to go again, he said.

The decision to not stage the
farm was “totally a local decision
made jointly between the (mall’s)

board of directors and its manage- ‘

ment,” said West Shore’s Jovich.
“Basically, we determined it was

. not in the best interest of our tenants

and our customers,” continued Jo-

‘ vich, who became the mall’s general
’7 manager in July 1985.

 

 

“We just didn’t include it in our
1986 marketing budget,” said Jovich,
saying the mall “actually doubled
for 1986 our budget for promotions
over 1985. ”

Grossenbacher and the other

' friends/partners from the Lutz,

Zephyrhills and Dade City area
were paid to stage the farm, Gros-
senbacher said, but neither she nor
Jovich of West Shore would discuss
the amount of the fee.

Grossenbacher and her partners
do other promotions for West Shore
— including its Christmas display —
but she said they can stage the farm
elsewhere if another mall contacts
them.

West Shore’s previous manages

', ment told Grossenbacher “the sales

were terrific” while the farm was
there, she said. (West Shore’s previ-

ous manager has left the company

and could not be reached; West
, Shore’s former marketing manager
f is now with Clearwater Mall but was

not available for comment.)-w .

Jovich said that the current mall
management believes not having the
farm “will not cut down on the num-

ber of people.” '

He added his belief that itiL“will

3. not hurt our sales in any way’i‘Or af-

fect the number of children" "who

' come to have their pictures made

with the Easter Bunny.
“1 think there will be a lot of disap- '- ‘9
pointed pebple this year.”

.' Two petting zoo areas — featur-
é.ing hand-raised animals -— at oppo-
site ends of the mall were the focal
points of the free Easter Animal
Farm. A country house showed farm
tools and kitchen equipment; some-
times crafts or trades such as quilt-
ing or sheep sheering were demon-‘
strated.

Instead of the farm, West Shore
Plaza this year will feature Easter
fashion shows, visits by the Easter
Bunny, a collector dolls show and a
“doll doctor.”

The Easter Animal Farm began
as an outgrowth of Old McDonald’s

 

"V Farm from the Florida State Fair,
Grossenbacher said.
“We were just a bunch of girls
who grew up together and worked at
Old McDonald’s Farm,” she said.

“When West Shore decided to start . _ Tribune me photo
stagingme farm they contacted us.” In prevuous years, the petting zoo. attracted thousands of

. W- ”a... - youngsters and their parents.

 

 

 




 

Bryant of JCPenney echoed Jo-
vich’s feeling concerning Easter
sales.

“I don’t think it will affect us that
much; I don’t know that a lot of peo-
ple came here just because éof the
animal show,” he said. '

However, he added that ”a'l‘ew”
potential shoppers “may stay'away,
but some others may come that
wouldn’t come if the farm“ 'Were
here.”

Charles Moxley, senior "vice
president for sales and promotion at
Mass Brothers which is a major ten-
ant at West Shore, said he couldn’t
comment because “I’ve heard abso-
lutely ziich” about plans to cancel
the farm. » '

Robinson’s manager Robert Kep-
pel said, “I’m new with Robinson’s
and wasn’t involved in the decision. I
wasn’t here when the farm‘ «was
here, so I have no idea how this 'will
affect” Easter sales.

Marvin Scott is the ownery'of a
Tampa film company that hadrthe
Easter Bunny photo concession the
past three years. He did not get the
contract this year, but said, “person-
ally I think there will be less’t’ chil-
dren for the pictures since the farm
is not being staged. .

Art Phillips/UPI

y were born at the

ive to the Indian Ocean island of

Madagascar. The newborn is in the Children’s 200.

A

ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

A St. Louis 200 employee shows off a bug-eyed baby
Zoo. Lemurs are nat

lemur one of twin males that recentl

Strange New World

 

 

 

 

 

 

; i; .a

Betty Tichich photos / Chronic!

Wildlife in the big city .

Human life is made happier for partiCi ' ' " ’

' . . . . pants In the mires Seger the all: ator left an ' -

ﬁgmotrh Citizen. NUtl’Ithl‘i Program and’children ales, right, chats wgith Z’ooty,thedcfl:1?c?eenn iii;
‘tt e Angelina Day Care Center by vusuts with animals were taken to Ripley House by the Hous-

cn ers from the Houston Zoo. Maria Lopez ad- ton Zoo docent program.

 




Mrs. Constance F. Yarbrough
3149 King Arthur Court, N.E.
Atlanta, Ga. 30345

March 18, 1986

Honorable Pat Swindall
Congressman from Georgia
House Offie Bldg.

Wash., DC 20515

Dear Pat:

It is my understanding that Congressman Robert J. Mrazek of New York
has introduced H.R. 2952, a bill to ban the importation of products
from red, eastern gray, and western gray kangaroos. The imposition
of such a ban would provide biologits an opportunity to study the
present situation before the entire species is wiped out.

By allowing the import of kangaroo skins, we provide a major economic
incentive for the wholesale destruction of this species, and that
since we began this importation once again, the kangaroo population
has dropped by 22 million animals. The U.S. hardly needs to condone
the cruelty of this slaughter, or probably jeopardize a species'

survival just so some uncaring and mostly unthinking individuals can
wear cowboy hats, carry wallers, key chains and other nonessential
items made from the skins. '

With all the inhumanities visited.upon hapless and helpless animals
on a daily basis, not only in America, but throughout the world, it
is not necessary we contribute to the possible demise of this animal,
or contribute to the cruelty in its slaughter. The stories I have
read of how a great number of these animals are slaughtered is enough
to make any01e with a conscience, or an} italir‘ ot humanenoss,

throw up.
Please vote for this bill, and do let me know how you do vote.
Thank you.

Sincerely,

(Mrs. ) Constance F. Yarbrough
cc: Honorable Robert J. Mrazek (and copies to my two Senators so
they know my feelings on this matter - Sam Nunn, Mack Mattingly

 




Mrs. Constance F. Yarbrough
3149 King Arthur Court, N.E.
Atlanta, Ga. 30345

March 18, 1986

Ms. Phyllis Marcuccio

Director of Publications

The National Science Teacher's Assn.
1742 Conn. Ave., NW

Washington, DC 20009

Dear Ms. Marcuccio:

It is sad to read in a bulletin from the Humane Society of the
United States that the National Science Teacher's Assn. has
voted to revise its guidelines regarding the use of live animals
in our schools.

Young people soon enough learn the the creatures who share this

planet with humans have very little use to them unless they can

be shot, eaten, or worn. They don't have to be taught disregard
for the lives of animals in.our school.

I can remember my own distate when I HAD to take biology in High
School (Eastern High School, in wash., DC), when I knew and the
school knew I was not going to use this knowledge at all in a
career as a secretary. However, my parents taught me respect for
animals and love for them. Unfortunately, not enough parents do
the same today.

.4—'
education -
.etv or

or it should be. I feel certain there is a great v
humane alternatives available for the study of anatomy and physi-
ology.

I

Reverence for life is an integral part of all scient

A
e
731

u

I
I

It is my sincere hope that your Assn. will reconsider this chang—
ing of your guidelines which would allow surgery on animals under
the “direct supervision of a trained adult supervisor". I under-
stand your new code also allows that "on rare occasions" an animal
may be "sacrificed for educational purposes". This is hogwash — to
teach young people especially, that if they learn something, it is
okay to kill an animal. I sometimes wonder what teaching in our
schools is coming to.

Our young people should be taught respect and reverence for all
LIFE, be it two-legged, four-legged, many-legged, with wings or
not. There is enough cruelty in our world; it need not be taught
in our schools.

Sincerely,

(Mrs.) Constance F. Yarbrough

 




)AKLAND TRIBUNE
MarchlZ, 1986

 

 

. .1 ‘ . By Angela Panorama/The Tribune
Trish Lysten spends time with her falcon Asteria, balancing on her gloved hand.

3 Opponent decries drop in raptor population

While falconry is a sport with
a long and fascinating history, it
is a topic of controversy among
wildlife experts today.

Barbara Robinson is among
the vocal opponents. She is a
wildlife rehabilitation volunteer,
a raptor team leader for the

" Wildlife Rescue Team at the Al-

exander Lindsay Junior Museum
in Walnut Creek, and a volunteer
in the San Francisco Zoo raptor
program. .

From her viewpoint, falconers
takes birds from thewild for hu-
man pleasure, sometimes ille-
gally, and without proper infor-
mation on the care and feeding
of the birds.

', 'She noted that some of the

birds are on the endangered or
threatened species lists, partic—
ularly the peregrine falcon and
bald eagle. As a rehabilitation
specialist, her goal is to put birds
back into the wild, not take them
out.

“When falconry first got start-

ed, hundreds of years ago, there

were lots of birds,” she ex-
plained. “But over the last 150
years, there has been a dramatic
decline in the raptor and bird-of-

, prey pOpulations. Man has creat-

ed the problems for wildlife by
destroying habitat, using pesti-

cides, and shooting at them.”

Illegal falconers are respon-
sible for many of the sick or in-

.‘ . I .
jured raptors Robinson sees in
the rehabilitation clinics.

“Some birds have been shot,”
Robinson said. “People try to
wound them, just a little, so they
can get the birds,” she ex-
plained. “There are some people
out there who think they know
about falconry. They’ve read
about it and think that’s all they
need to know.”

Some of the birds have been
taken from their nests and
raised by illegal falconers or,
sometimes, by over-eager 1i-
censed falconers. The birds then
imprint, or identify strongly,
with their human handlers. ,

When the birds get loose or
are confiscated by Department
of Fish and Game officials and
are turned over to the rehabili-
tation center, there is no chance
to put them back into the wilds,
Robinson points out. ‘

Many of these birds end up in
educational facilities, if possi-
ble. Others, like red-tail hawks
or kestrels, are common and dif-
ficult to place and have to be
destroyed.

A bird which has imprinted on
its human handler also cannot be
used in research projects. The
birds won’t reproduce because
they don’t recognize other birds
as potential mates, they identify
with people.

They can’t be released either.

In the wild, they do nothing to
continue the species and take
valuable food and hunting re-
sources away from wild birds.

They have no fear of humans
and wouldn’t hesitate to ap-
proach a person with food, a po-
tentially dangerous situation.

“Imagine having a hawk
swoop down at your child while
you were having a picnic,” said
Robinson. .

But she acknowledges that fal-
conry isn’t all bad. “We wouldn’t
be where we are in the rehabili-
tation programs without the
technology developed by falcon-
ers,” explained Robinson.

“But we’re at cross purposes
with falconers,” she continued.
“I can understand the enjoyment
they get out of having a bird in
hand, I feel good when I’m work-
ing with the birds, too. My pur-
pose is to educate the public,
however.”

She encourages falconers to
take their experience and knowl-
edge to rehab or public educa-
tion. “There’s a certain amount
of danger and beauty involved in
dealing with raptors,” she said.

“Eagle’s talons are strong as a
lion’s jaw and it’s thrilling to
have one on your wrist when it’s
trained.”

-- Dee Allen-Kirkhouse

 




Falconry requires tests, I
licensing, and hours of work

By Dee Allen-Kirkhause
Special to The Tribune

With barely a blink from her
golden eyes, Asteria watches
visitors as they move around the
family room of Trish Lysten’s
Lafayette home.

Tethered to a metal tub .in
which she is soaking her talons,
Asteria cranes her neck and
twists to get a better view of the
guests.

When she is finally lifted from
the water to greet the visitors,
she spreads her wings and hov-
ers above their heads with her
talons gripping Lysten’s gloved
wrist.

Asteria is a 1-year-old, red-
tail hawk trained in the ancient
sport of falconry. The visitors,
accustomed only to seeing
hawks soaring overhead, marvel
at the soft touch and muted au-
tumn colors of Asteria’s feath-
em.

The day after the interview,
Lysten had planned to release
the hawk in to the wilds around
Santa Rosa, where she caught
her. Lysten had been soaking As-
teria’s talons in an anti-fungal
solution to prepare her for re-
entry into the wilds.

Lysten, 21, is an apprentice
falconer, licensed by the Califor-
nia Department of Fish and
Game to own a hawk. It is illegal
for anyone without a license to
have a raptor —-— a bird of prey.

Lysten has been intrigued by
the powerful birds since high
school when she worked at the
Alexander Lindsay Junior Mu-
seum. She exercised the hawks,
kestrels, kites and other birds in
the museum’s education collec-
tion.

“I loved to watch them fly,”
she explained. “Their flight is
spectacular. It’s beautiful.”

Owning her own red-tail has
given her a new appreciation of
the beauty of the species. As an
apprentice falconer, Lysten can
only own a red—tail hawk or kes-
trel, birds of prey that are not in
danger of extinction. ' ’

Under the guidance of her
sponsor, Craig Martsen, a mas-
ter falconer in Marin, she
learned to handle Asteria and to
train her for hawking.

To train a hawk, or “man it
down” as hawkers say, requires
a lot of time.

“I spend as much time with
her as possible,” explains Lys-

ten. In the beginning, that meant
feeding Asteria while she was
perched on Lysten’s wrist and

 

spending one to three hours a
day with her.

“Getting my license was easy,
compared to caring for the bird,”
Lysten noted. She studied for the
license for six months, learning
about hawks, their diseases, and
the laws and codes dealing with
falconery, before she took the
test in May 1984.

Her sponsor taught her to
make a jess, the leather strap
worn around the bird’s leg, and
helped her build a mew — hawk
house -— for Asteria.

An inspector for the Depart-
ment of Fish and Game visited
her hometo check the mew and
Lysten’s equipment before she
was granted a license in January
1985.

She waited until the fall before
trapping the bird.

“I wanted a mature bird,” she
explained. “If‘ it got loose, it
would know how to take care of
itself.”

Once the hawk is accustomed
to its trainer, the next step is
getting the bird to come. A long
rope is attached to the jesses and
the trainer walks five feet away,
places meat in her glove and sig-
nals for the bird to come.

“Eventually, you can take off
the rope and she will fly to you,”
explains Lysten. Once that step
is accomplished, the bird is
ready for hawking.

“Hawking is a sport,” Lysten
explains. Hawkers compete
against each other in field com-
petition to see how many jack
rabbits the bird can catch. The
California Hawking Club annual
field meet drew 300 peOple to its
competition last year.

In competition, a jack rabbit is
flushed from the field, the bird is
released, and with a signal from
its trainer, the hawk dives down,
pins the rabbit to the ground and
smothers it with its powerful tal-
ans.-

Lysten trains Asteria in Pleas-
anton where there are open
fields filled with jack rabbits. It
is illegal to hunt in state or re-
gional parks. In Contra Costa
County, open fields are limited.

“Most falconers live in Sacra-

 

.. \x- . m4: Ian-"'4'": . “m - u». mm..-"

mento or Santa Rosa where
there are lots of open fields ” ex-

? plains Lysten

Lysten works with Asteria five

‘- hours a week now, explaining
‘ that she has to plan the birds
; exercise program around feed-
‘ ing schedules and the weather.

Every three days Lysten feeds
Asteria rats, mice or chicks to
reach her normal weight of three
pounds On most days, Asteria
stays in her mew and doesn’t fly.

Lysten explains that a hawk at
normal weight would fly away if
given the opportunity With the
jess around its leg, a hawk could

i hang itself if it landed in a tree.

Therefore, falconers are care—

ful to keep their birds at flying
weight when they are out. The

hawk responds to the stimulus of

-. food from her trainer, and re-
; turns.

The flying weight, however,

can’t be maintained for a long

period of time because the low
weight is stressful for the bird.

Falconry is an ancient sport of
nobles which started in Arabia
and spread throughout the
world. In China, falconers fly
golden eagles. In other areas of
the world, goshawks, kestrels,
kites and the peregrine falcon
are flown.

In California only master fal-
coners are allowed to fly the big-
ger birds. It takes seven years of

' working with hawks, including a

two-year apprenticeship and

’—_ five years of a general license

before the Department of Fish

, and Game will issue a certifi-
-; cate to own falcons.

Lysten wants to work with the
bigger birds. She plans to be-

. come an animal behaviorist and
.' study birds in the wild.

Later this month, she will
move to South Africa to live with
her sister, Beth. She plans to get

involved with the Zimbabwe
.. Falconers Club, which has been

doing research on the Batelleur
Eagle.

When she returns to the Unit-
ed States next year, she will fin-
ish working on her bachelor’s de-
gree in psychology and biology.

“There are lots of birds that
we don’t know anything about,”
she explained, adding that she
hopes to find out more about
them.

 

 




U‘Ai/The Houston Post/Sum, March 9, 1986

 

 

 

 

 

Wile fate of the Concho water snake Is causing an uproar in West Texas.

Y‘ﬁfaw

EUPI photo

Snake speCies deSignation
threatening Water projeCt

BJG SPRING (UPI) — In West Texas, snakes and
lack of water are a part of life, so it s only natural the
little Concho water snake is causing quite an uproar

threatening a proposed dam and reservoir. ~

’ The Parks and Wildlife Service has proposed mak—

Rig the 18-inch snake that lives in riffles of the Concho

Syd Colorado rivers a threatened species, thus endan-

gering or slowing down the construction of Stacy

Reservoir, expected to provide water-poor West Tex-

ans with 100 million gallons of water a day.

“We here in Texas don’t understand why this
snake would be put on the endangered species list by
people from outside the state,” said Owen Ivie, gener-
al manager of the Colorado River Municipal Water
District.

Because of the wildlife service’s proclamation, Ivie
has asked the service for a public hearing, which it

ust grant within 45 days of the request.

ﬁt The Stacy Dam and Reservoir project, slated to
§begin construction in January 1987, will be located
falong 20 river miles of the Colorado and Concho riv-
"sers and inundate 20, 000 acres of land 1n Concho, Cole-

€121, Runnels and McCulloch counties.
me the Army Corps of Engineers would Issue the
rmit for the dam, the dam could be affected by the
"’nake s status if it was declared to be a threatened
Sims.

.4 Ivie says the water district will argue at the hear-
”ling that the snake is really not a threatened species.
It" The non-poisonous snake, which is about 18 inches

‘ ng, an inch in diameter and has markings similar
:to those of a diamondbaCk rattlesnake, is not even as

neficial to man as a rattlesnake, Ivie said. The

:Fish and Wildlife service says the snake lives only in
triffle areas of the two rivers — areas that would be

{changed by the creation of the reservoir.

:1 The water district also intends to argue that the
':.’snake’ s sister species, the Brazos River water snake,
mlso was considered a threatened species until it was

found living in Possum Kingdom Lake and Lake
Granbury on the Brazos River. ‘

About $15,000 has already been spent by the dis-
trict on surveys, reports, conference and travel aso-
ciated with gathering information about'the snake.

Ivie says the water district contends the snake and
the reservoir can co—exist, and that officials from the
district already have met with Fish and Wildlife rep-
resentatives to outline those ideas.

One proposal would be for the dam to be built with
artificial creek ledges and shallow water feeding ar-
eas to help the snake live and breathe. '

Last August in Midland, San Angelo and Abilene,
Ivie says 97 percent of voters in an election to partici-
pate in the reservoir voted for the project.

Jim Johnson, chief of the Office of Endangered
Species for the wildlife service in Albuquerque, N.M.,
says the wildlife service not only requested the snake
be named a threatened species, but also requested
the snake’s critical habitat be preserved. A threat-
ened species means the species is moving toward the
endangered status.

But should environmentalists be up in arms over
the possible extinction of the Concho water snake,
Ivie reminds of the snail darter outcry.

Environmentalists and the Tennessee Valley Au-
thority went to battle in the 1970s over the importance
of preserving the snail darter, a 2-inch minnow. The
snail darter was an endangered species known to live
only in the Little Tennessee River near Madisonville,
Tenn, where TVA started building the Tellico Dam.

Lawsuits aimed at saving the snail darter stopped
construction of the dam for several years until Sen.
Howard Baker, R-Tenn., pushed legislation through
Congress exempting the snail darter from the Endan-
gered Species Act.

Since the Tellico Dam was completed, the snail
darter has been found in other streams and has been

removed from the endangered species list.

 




ATLANTA J OURNAL/ CONSTITUTION Weekend - March 15 , 1986

 

 

 

 

oucvuuvx Aueocm GDEE'NGS 20"

 

The Care Bears are coming to the .
113th Birthday Party Celebration for The Atlanta Humane
Society & you’re invited to a day full of activities!
Showtimes; 11am, 2pm, 4pm
Cake & Coke: 2:30pm
Saturday, March 22
on the mall at

phipps plAZA

' 3500 Peachtree at Lenox Road

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

. 3 \i 3
IN GRAND TETONS,
, hunters were allowed to
shoot crowd-tamed mi-
grating elk.

Leonard Lee Rue Ill

PROTECTED after mighty
battles, gyrfalcons had
been drawing prices up
to $50,000 each. '

r/sa Tab/27’
”5;..17" 80

the battle.

NEGLIGENCE, CRO'WDING, BANNING FROM
APARTMENTS sends millions of pets on a quick
skid to obliteration. -

rwmry YEAR BATTLE
saved most surviving
harp seals. And it took

Katrinka Kreisman

,

Dotte Larsen

BlUE-EYED SHAG, as far
off as Antarctica, isn't
safe from acid rain. Toll
continues amid inaction.

fighting the whaling ban.
U.S.' allows kills of one
species _-;— the rarest.
“W *

ANIMALS FROM YEL-
LOWSTONE were de-
'stroyed this year as
Montana hunters re-
newed buffalo kills.

Setting Up Defamer

IN “ALASKA, hunters
fight for the right to kill
wolves from the air.

. ~41”: “'

0:

(9 Leonard Lee Rue Ill

POACHERS IN RWANDA
took gorillas near ex-
tinction — then killed
their most notable hu-
man defender.

Agdz'mz‘ Agony, Derpdz'r and Needlerr Dedtb

A revolution in the way millions of
people think about animals occurred in
the last twenty years. But there’s a hitch.
For the most part. it has stayed in the

thinking stage. We continue to destroy '

animals in the tens Of millions. despite a
host of television programs showing how
despicable this can be and how rotten a lot
of people feel about it. .

What animals are still dying unnecessar-
ily? '

Start with dogs and cats — maybe yours.
Our cities decline to spend the money to
solve the problem of unwanted pets. Land-
lords decline to have them in the building.
The squalid truth is that animals by the
millions die in shelters. A percentage of
those shelters actually foment laboratory
experimentation by selling lost, aban-
doned animals into experiments — ex-
periments which are sometimes torturing
or maiming and often ending, at last. in
death.

In California recently. a lab supplier
whose dogs were in such horrible condi-
tion that some were dying and others were
feeding on the corpses was finally thrown
out of business in a spasm of public right-
eousness + which was very, very right
but very. very rare! ‘

MORE THAN FIFTEEN YEARS AGO,
trying desperately to stop the decline, the
Animal Protection Institute began report-'
ing on the carnage caused by “the cruel,
steel-jaw trap.” Florida took a lone. out-
standing position. banning the leghcld trap
back in 1973. The Animal Protection Insti—
tute helped.and Florida helped, to at least
let the American public know an ugly
secret: trapping by this method is devastat-
ingly vicious. But it is farfrom licked! Even
though fifty countries worldwide have
banned these cruelest of traps. which can
induce the injured animal to chew off its
own leg to free itself. nearly all other states
look the other way and trappers continue.

TWENTY YEARS AGO, it appeared that
Canadian seal clubbers would never give
up those atrocities where harp seal pups,
just a few days old.,were clubbed to insen-
sibility. usually killed outright but some-
times skinned while the heart .still beat
and the brain still functioned. The evi-
dence of the live skinnings was repeatedly
denied. then finally admitted [when hun‘
dreds \-\"itnessed it), In the 19805, clubbing
of the youngest seals has finally been
stopped. Only about ten percent of the
harp seal kill of a few years ago is taking
place —— a proof that animal crusading
works.

A FANTASTIC CRISIS is currently afoot
for wild horses Of the American West.
Since the utter tyranny of this is more
difficult to see than the clubbing of de-
fenseless baby seals. the years of stormy
“protecting” by determined animal de-
fenders are going down the drain. The
most titanic takeout of wild horses in a
generation is underway.

PLEASE BE WITH US! WE DESPER-
ATELY NEED YOU! SCAN THE TOP OF
THIS PAGE FOR IUST A FEW OF THE
SPECIES" IN TROUBLE! UNTIL THE PRO-
TECTORS OUTNUMBER THE DESTROY-
ERS, WE CAN HAVE NO ASSURANCE
THAT ANIMALS WON’T BE ERASED
FROM EARTH, KNOCKED ABOUT BY
KILLER HUMANS, COLLECTED FOR

LABORATORIES, SACRIFICED IN THE

NAME OF HUMAN VANITY AND ITS
WHIM FOR “GENUINE PELTS." NO
RAINBOW FOR THE ANIMALS UNLESS
YOU TAKE ACTIVE STEPS OF YOUR
OWN. I HOPE YOU IVILL START BY
FILLING OUT THE COUPON BELOW.

You can join EVEN FASTER
by calling toll free:

1-800-222-2990

“Available to Visa or MasterCard users only”
Our latest financial report is available from us or New York

Dept. of State. Offices of Charities Registration, Albany, NY 12231.

 

My membership contribution of $
appropriate box.)

[3 Active - $18 ‘

D Contributing - $25

El Student or Senior citizen - $12

Acct. No

U
To THE ANIMAL PROTECTION INSTITUTE OF AMERICA
YES, I’LL JOIN THE FREEDOM FORCE FOR ANIMALS IN PERIL.

El Sustaining - $50 [:1 Patron - $500
El Sponsoring - $100 D Benefactor - $1,000

Check here to authorize API to charge __ Visa or __ Mastercard.

SAT031 706

is enclosed. (Please check the

or more

Expiration date

 

Name on card

 

Name
Address

Signature

 

 

City

State .____ Zip

 

purposes.

The Animal Protection Institute. a humane edu-
cation organization which encompasses animal
detenders everywhere. has had a role in virtual-
ly all the major animal crusades and is leading a
series of current campaigns which you can aid.
It is a nonprofit. tax-exempt charity. All contri-
butions are deductible for income and estate tax

Mail to: Belton P. Mouras, President
The Animal Protection
Institute of America
6130 Freeport Boulevard
P.O. Box 22505
Sacramento, CA 95822

 

 

 

Membership includes a year’s subscription to the glowing quarterly, Mainstream.

 




Dogs 711m Vicious in Packs—

 

V When

Q '.'

By Allyn Stone
The two pet dogs looked

harmless enough, out for a-

Saturday romp in a rain-
' soaked Marin County pasture
, where sheep were grazing.

Then canine instinct took
over and the cute dogs, one brown
and one black, suddenly acted
like hunters. .

When they were through,
seven badly mauled ewes and 20
lambs lay dying on the blood-
stained ground near San Domeni-

' co School in San Rafael. Don Mills,
owner of the slain livestock, said
it was the worst such attack he
had seen in 35 years of ranching.

Dog attacks on livestock in-
crease during the winter lambing
season, according to animal con-
trol officers around the Bay Area.
Yet the problem persists year
round, resulting in the death or
maiming of a wide range of live-
stock and wild animals.

The part-time predators have
been known to attack animals
much larger than themselves.
Last year, a registered dairy cow
valued at $50,000 was killed by
dogs in Sonoma County, accord-
ing to the California Farm Bureau
Federation.

“There is no doubt that when
dogs run loose this way, they un-
dergo a behavior change that
most of their owners would not
recognize," said Diana Allevato,
Marin County Humane Society di-
rector, after the attack on Mills’
flock several weeks ago.

Wherever open space col-
lides with residential develop-
ment, some seemingly docile pets
lead double lives.

The problem is not limited to
large dogs. Cocker spaniels and
small poodles have been seen
hunting in packs with other dogs.

“Even in Hillsborough, peo
ple let their dogs go romping
loose, and they have been known
to run down deer and kill them,”
said Paul Galloway, animal con-
trol manager for San Mateo Coun-
ty.

In Santa Clara County, ani-
mal control officials give farmers
posters to display on their fences.
warning naive dog owners that
their pets may be shot if they
stray onto pastureland.

Pets Become

SAN FRANCISCO CHRONICLE - March 7, 1986

lers

 

 

‘ .'Z}\_\‘._..._: .

By Brant Ward

Marin County sheep rancher Don Mills with a lamb severely injured by morauding dogs

“Dogs are naturally predato-
ry animals,” said Bob Gantt, su-
pervisor of animal control ser-
vices for the county. “A dog will
chase, bring down and kill, and
he‘s not being anything but a
dog."

“They’ll do their marauding,
then trot on home. People just
can‘t believe it -— they say, ‘Not
my dog.’ The dog can go home
with a bloody chicken in his
mouth and the owner will say be
must‘ve just found it somewhere,
already dead."

“They think their dog is just
going down the street to visit his
friend the Irish setter,” Allevato
said. “In fact, he picks up his
friend and they go into the hills to
harass and kill livestock.”

A 1983 Farm Bureau survey
of California sheep ranchers
showed that dogs and coyotes
each commit about half the at~
tacks on sheep, with dog attacks
concentrated closer to urban ar-
eas.

The majority of dog attacks _

on livestock and wild animals are
committed by pets, animal con-
trol officials say. The dogs .that
killed Don Mills’ sheep were de-
scribed as medium-size, possibly a
Chow and a retriever, each wear-
ing a collar and tag.

They got away. But Mills shot
two other dogs — one fatally —
when they invaded his sheep pen
on Lucas Valley Road a few days
later.

“I don‘t blame the dogs," said

Mills, “I blame the owners.“

Although pets do most of the
hunting in the Bay Area. there are
a few cases of wild dogs living by
tooth and claw in parks and other
open spaces.

Police for the East Bay Re-
gional Park District report that
packs of wild, or feral, dogs can be
seen from the air during helicop-
ter patrols of the Hayward shore-
line, Briones Regional Park and
the Las Trampas and Sunol re-
gional wilderness areas.

Several of the animals have
been shot and killed by park po-
lice for attacking deer. Authori-
ties say the wild dogs are usually
wary of humans, but can be dan-
gerous if they are interrupted
while attacking their prey.

 




Despite allergies, some own

By EDYTHE YSASI

 

 

HOENIX, Ariz. (AP) -—
Some humans continue to
live with pets that make
them sick, allergists say.

“If a child has a drippy nose
because a cat’s in the house, I tell
the parents they should get rid of
the animal. But if the child has se-
vere
asthma and

 

can’t breathe,

they have no Your
h ' ,” D .
c 01ce r health

Bruno Frei-
gang of Calga- —
ry, Alberta, Canada, said.

“If the parents refuse,” he add-
ed, “I give them hell.”

Bruno and other doctors at-
tending the 42nd annual Congress
of the American College of Aller-
gists here recently said many of
their patients were pet owners
who would rather get medical
care for their animal allergies
than part with their dogs and
cats.

“They get very attached to
their animals,” Freigang said,
adding that he is often rebuffed
when he tells patients to “kick the

cat out of the house.”

Dr. Lawrence Chiarmonte, a
professor at Long Island College
Hospital in Brooklyn, N.Y., said
he had decided to become an al-
lergist “because one of my best
friends in school wanted to be-
come a veterinarian and he was
allergic to dogs.”

“Today he’s a vet and he’s still
wheezing,” he said.

hiarmonte said he knew
many veterinarians and
pet owners who were al-
lergic to domestic animals.

If the humans cannot or will not
avoid contact, he advises them to
improve air filtration systems in
their offices and homes, to vacu-
um and dust more often and to
limit contact with allergy—causing
pets.

He also injects many patients
with liquefied, purified animal
material and hair when they de-
cide they would rather submit to
periodic injections than part with
their pets.

Cat allergies are the most com-
mon, and a large number of drug
companies at the session were
marketing injectable medica-
tions.

The Houston Post/Fri., March 14, 1986/ 3C

Robert Lonegan of ALK of
America said cat saliva is the
main human irritant. It is found
on cat fur because the animals

- groom themselves with their

tongues. , ,

“There are 18 allergic antigens
in cats,” he said. . 3

“Why do people who are aller-‘ ‘
gic to them keep cats in the
house? Probably for the same
reasons they keep their chil-
dren.” ’

r. Ron Glinerd, an allergist

from Ann Arbor, Mich.,

said he had recently com-
pleted a study on dogs that
showed canines -— even within one
breed — varied widely in their
ability to irritate allergic hu-
mans.

Dog allergy medications are
not effective in relieving pet own-
ers’ symptoms because “most of
the commercial (medication)
preparations are made from mon—
grels, and they are missing some
of the allergy-causing proteins
found in dogs of other breeds,” he
said.

Glinerd said he hoped to see the
day when a prospective pet owner

 

ers keep pets

could have an animal tested for
allergy-producing properties be-
fore deciding whether to take it
home.

Gerald Vanderpool, an Atlanta
allergist, said the combination of
pets, smoking in the home and air
pollution was producing increas- .
ing numbers of asthmatic chil-.
dren. . .
“They miss a lot of school, and _
the medication often makes the
hyperactive,” he said. _ ' ~-

“It is a serious problem.”

AP photo

Doctors recommend that pet owners with allergies improve
air ﬁltration in homes to keep from sneezing and wheezing.

 




Betty Tichich / Chronicle

Paw power

Barbara Granacher’s V 3-
‘ald English sheep dog
;..I' in arms, above, Sun-
» as more than 900 dogs
and their own -. entered the
5th Annual i<‘ ‘ “an Run near
Sam Hous v Park, while
Trey Evaﬁi? collars his dog
Senta on the sidelines. At
right, veterinarian Robin
Shofner examines bull terrier
Caper after he hit the infa-
mous runner’s “wall” at the
end of the one~mile run and
collapsed. A short dip in cool
water revived Caper, owned
by John Connally of Houston,
and the Humane Society will
be able to give other animals
a new leash, er, lease on life
using the proceeds from the
race.

 




83 /The Houston Post/Mom, March 10, 1986

In praise of job well done by Animal
CﬂNTRaA

DE P77

Dear Dr. Shannon: As you can
tell from the enclosed letter, three
of the city of Houston’s animal
control officers did their job and
did it well.

What is especially significant is
that the citizen and her son, with
some risk to themselves, made it
possible for these officers to solve
an animal problem. This kind of
citizen involvement is absolutely

essential to the resolution of loose '

animal problems. The citizen
should be commended for her inge-
nuity, persistence and lack of pan-
ic.

She also made us look good as
we went about our business of con—
serving city tax dollars by concen-
trating on actual animals and not
animal tracks. Each citizen of
Houston pays less than $1 annually
for animal control services. By her
actions, this citizen sure got her
dollar’s worth. Thanks.

Robert E. Armstrong, D.V.M.,
Chief, Bureau of Animal Regula-
tion and Care, City of Houston.

Dear Dr. Armstrong: Thank you
for sharing this letter with us. The
difficulties of being an animal con-
trol officer are numerous.

Therefore, it gives me much
pleasure to print this letter from
Karen Garrison who exemplifies
the statement: “I wondered why '
somebody didn’t do something,
then I realized that I am some-
body.”

Dear Sir: In this busy city, our
city services seldom reach any of
us on a personal level. On Dec. 31,
1985, I had occasion to utilize the
services of the Animal Control De-
partment. I didn’t hold out much
hope since it was the eve of a holi-
day.

A huge pit bulldog (100 pounds
plus) had made himself at home in
our Sharpstown neighborhood. He
slept where he wanted (usually in
a garage), jumped 6-foot fences at
will and drove the children to their
homes. This all started Friday,
Dec. 27.

I called animal control Monday
morning. They asked if the animal
could be confined. With some inge-

nuity, my 15—year-old son lured the

dog into our garage and closed the
door behind him.

The easy part was over. Tues-
day morning, Officer Audrey J en— .
kins arrived. After several at-
tempts from a side door, she
secured a noose around the dog’s
neck. Suddenly he made a leap
backward, dragging the officer to
the ground. She suffered 'cuts on

 

 

 

”‘4 :

'9; a,
MN, ., ’ ’
“a .A
- v
x.) "0, '5
0

,~: )‘Vx 1’ ‘
. g. §?1§>t§°

 

 

 

 

Post photo by Dan Hardy

Houston's animal control officers on duty.

her hand and bruises on her legs.
She then called for assistance.
Shortly thereafter, Officer Ter-
rell Rodriguez arrived. By this
time the animal was frightened
and cornered. Rodriguez entered
the garage only to find the dog
crouched — ready to leap. The offi-
cers decided the situation required
a supervisor. Supervisor Robert
Brown arrived. Using his years of
experience and calm manner, he
entered the enclosed space and fi-
nally secured the dog. But even he
had some difficulty handling the
powerful animal.

dent. I wish to extend my thanks to
you and your department. This is
one city service in which I know
my tax dollars are well spent.

— KAREN GARRISON

Dear Dr. Shannon: Are you
aware that there is a move under
way to have the US. Census Bu-
reau include a study on pet demo-
graphics in its next census?

According the the March issue
of Dog Fancy magazine, the cam-

 

Once the dog was 11-»2-3 - "
secured in the Dr R
truck, Brown deter- ~ ‘,
mined the extent of * " ‘ '
Jenkins’ injuries
and did not leave
until he was sure
she had been cared
for. The profession—
alism of these offi-
cers and their concern for citizens
as well as animals was most evi—

abatto-

;Shannon

y , PET SET ,

paign is supported by Tufts Uni-
versity College of Veterinary

 




Medicine, the Humane Society of
the United States, the American
Humane Association, numerous
animal welfare / control organiza-
tions and pet food manufacturers.

In my opinion, this is something
desperately needed since there are
such variations in figures used to
estimate the total number of ani-
mals in a city or county. This area
is a good example as’I have seen
estimates ranging from 1/2 million
to 11/2 million of the number of
dogs and cats in Houston and Har-
ris County.

Developing adequate control
programs seems difficult if there
are no reasonably accurate popu-
lation figures.

Anyone interested in supporting
this movement should write a let-
ter to the Census Bureau request-
ing that it include a pet study in its
1990 census. Address it to Peter
Bounpane, Assistant Director, De-
mographic Census, US. Census
Bureau, Washington, DC. 20233.

Also send a copy of the letter to
Dr. Andrew Rowan, Assistant
Dean for New Programs, Tufts
University, 203 Harrison Ave.,
Boston, Mass. 02111. This will en-
able Tufts University to keep re-
cord of the response this move-
ment is generating.

Dear Reader: Many of us in-
volved in animal welfare pro- _
grams have already written to the
Census Bureau asking that pets be
included in the 1990 census.

Most of the responses we’ve re-
ceived haven’t been too encourag-
ing. However, we continue to be '
optimistic and perhaps the Census
Bureau will be bombarded with
mail. Thank you for writing.

DETROIT FREE PRESS - March 12, 1986

 

 

Don’t kill
that snake

s a professional naturalist, I am in-
volved in helping people understand

- and appreciate the many living organisms

with which we share the world, and in
fostering an awareness of the importance
of each species in nature’s balance. This
job is made more difficult when writers in
the media, whether by accident or design,
perpetuate unwarranted fears and stereo-
types about certain wildlife species.

A case in point is Mitch Albom’s col-
umn on Kirk Gibson on March 2. Albom
quotes Gibson as saying that he doesn’t
like snakes and would kill one if he saw it.
Despite the fact that the great majority of
snakes are harmless, beneficial to agricul-
ture, and inclined to avoid humans, lots of
people “don’t like” snakes. Gibson’s atti-
tude is based on ignorance and is unfortu-
nately all too common. But it was Albom’s
comments that most disturbed me, as he
seemed to imply that snake-bashing is a
symbol of courage. .

The indiscriminate killing of snakes is a

Fear of snakes is based on ignorance.

symbol of fear and prejudice. Sorry Mitch,
but snakes don’t need “rehabilitation” —
they are fine just the way they are. A very
few species (only one in Michigan) are
potentially dangerous, but these are easxly
avoided. I would understand the need to
remove poisonous snakes from residential
areas, but all snakes should be tolerated
and respected in their natural environ-
ment.

JAMES HARDING
Orchard Lake

 

 

DALLAS TIMES HERALD Weekend
March 14, 1986

March 23-29, I986 GRIT

Cats as C oihpanibns: Offered
To Guests at ‘Minnesota Hotel

When off duty the ’10 cats at The Anderson House in
Wabash, Minn, sleep in a back room. But when a guest at
._ the hotel registers andrequests a cat for his room, one of
, r the cats goes on duty, along with a litter box and supply of “
cat food. ‘ ' = - .
The idea of supplying a cat companion for a few hours, a
day or even a weekend to guests of the hotel originated 10
years ago, says John Hall, owner of the oldest. operating
hotel in Minnesota. , . . '
Hall said his cats are gentle and that they are booked

about 99 percent of the time by guests of his l30-year-old
Victorian hotel. -- ~ ' ". ,_ '

 

 

WILDCAT EXHIBIT: Live Siberian tigers.
spotted leopards and lions will be
among the wildlife at Northtown Mail's
wildcat exhibit, which runs Tuesday—
March 22 at the mall, LBJ and Webb
Chapel. A lecture will be given nightly
through the exhibit’s run at 7:30 pm.
It’s free. Call 247~9666.

J

 




 

 

 

ATLANTA JOURNAL — May 8, 1986

James J. Kiipairick

Red tape blocks humane treatment of monke

WASHINGTON -—- You would have to travel
a long way to find an uglier story than the story
of the 15 monkeys of Silver Spring, Md. The pri-
mates are living out their tormented lives in
cages at the National Institutes of Health. The
government’s conduct in the case is appalling.

The story goes back to 1981, when George
Washington University student Alex Pacheco
spent four months working undercover at the In-
stitute for Behavioral Research in suburban
Maryland. The institute was conducting research
of potential value to stroke victims. Dr. Edward
Taub was principal investigator. His work was
financed by the National Institutes of Health.

No one who has known victims of stroke
would minimize Taub’s purpose. He was seeking
means to help such victims rehabilitate them-
selves. At the time Pacheco went to work, Taub
had been conducting animal experiments under
NIH grants for eight years. He believes his find-
ings have resulted in important gains in the field.

When that has been said, the best has been
said. As part of his research, Taub experimented
with highly intelligent macaques. The monkeys
were subjected to surgery that in some instances
severed their spinal columns. Arms and legs rou-

 

 

 

tinely were crippled. The animals were subjected
to various forms of torment to determine if they
could be taught to regenerate impaired limbs
and organs.

Though Taub said “there is no pain in these
experiments,” no one who has seen Pacheco’s
photos or heard his testimony is likely to be per-

suaded. Pacheco has testified vividly of the ani-

mals’ self—mutilation. One monkey named Billy
chewed off eight of his 10 fingers. Another mon-
key, Paul, tore off all five fingers of one hand.

Laboratory conditions, according to Pacheco,
were at nightmare levels. Cages were infrequent-
ly cleaned. If a caretaker failed to show up, the
monkeys could go two or three days without
food. The place was overrun with filth. Some
medications were two years out of date.

On the basis of Pacheco’s evidence, Mont-
gomery County police raided Taub’s institute in
September 1981. They seized l7 surviving mon-
keys and charged Taub with violating Maryland’s
law against cruelty to animals. The animals, 15
of which are still alive, were sent to an NIH fa-
cility at Poolesville, Md. Taub was convicted on
six counts, but the Maryland Court of Appeals
reversed. It was held that federal rules pre-

empted state law. A civil action is pending.

Almost five years later, the monkeys remain
in their cages at Poolesville. The NIH does not
want them. Last October, NIH spokesman Wil-
liam Raub said that “We wish to discontinue our
temporary custody of the IBR monkeys as soon
as possible.” Taub’s institute does not want them.
Joseph Vasapoli, chief executive officer of the in-
stitute, said last September that in the absence
of continued NIH funding, “Dr. Taub will not
continue to pursue this research effort.”

A humane organization known as PETA
(People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals)
does want them. PETA has arranged for Primar-
ily Primates Inc., an animal sanctuary near San
Antonio, to take the animals.

For reasons that baffle understanding, the
NIH -. refused to c00perate with so sensible an
ending to the story. On the agenda of James
Wyngaarden, director of the NIH, the fate of 15
monkeys has a low priority. Maryland’s Sen.
Charles Mathias and more than a hundred mem-
bers of House have appealed for the monkeys’
release. The situation is infuriating —- but when
one is dealing with the obstinacy of bureaucracy
and the law’s delays, what else is new?~—(c1986.)

 

 

 

 




Mrs. Constance F. Yarbrough
3149 King Arthur Court, N.E.
Atlanta, Ga. 30345

'May 8, 1986

Honorable Sam Nunn
Honorable Mack Mattingly
Honorable Pat Swindall
Congressmen from Georgia
Washington, D.C.

Gentlemen:

I find the story by James J. Kilpatrick (copy enclosed)

disgusting, infuriating, sickening.

What is being done to MAKE THIS STUPID DOLT at the NIH
allow the release of these unfortunate animals to
PETA?

May I have an answer please, and also let me know what

you are doing to bring this about.
Thank you.

Sincerely,

(Mrs.) Constance F. Yarbrough

 




4

Animal hOuse z.

Feline aﬁcionado adapts habitat
to take care of endangered species

By BILL GORDON
Staff writer

EULESS — Past the hamburger stands and
convenience stores along Main Street, down a
tree-lined residential avenue, behind John
Stokes’ brick rancher, jaguars, cougars, leop-
ards and ocelots prowl a tree-shaded back
yard.

Across the fence, the neighbors’ dogs chase
and yap at one another, ignoring the large cats
that pace just 50 feet away.

Inside, Stokes cradles a 3-week-old leopard
in his arms and feeds it from a baby bottle.

“It’s someting I always wanted to do,” says
the 41-year—old medical X—ray systems engi—
neer whose hobby is collecting and caring for
the cats. “When I was kid, my parents had to
watch me closely at the 200 because I always
wanted to climb in with the lions and tigers.”

It started four years ago, when he bought a
2-week-old cougar named Mashanta. It accel-
erated 18 months ago, when he took in a 6-
year-old jaguar named Bo and a pair of oce-
lots named Mork and Mindy.

“I didn’t name the ocelots,” he says apolo-
getically. “I try to choose more exotic names.”

A year ago, he picked up his largest cat, a
l65-pound leopard named Wimpy, and Cujo,
a 3-year-old cougar. Soon after that, he ac-
quired two more leopards: Sahara, 3; and
Maya, 6 months.

Recently Wimpy and Bo got together, and
then there were nine. He hasn’t named the
cub.

With the exception of the leopards, which
are native to Africa and Asia, all of the cats
are native to Mexico and the Southwest. With
the exception of the cougars, all of the cats
are considered endangered species.

These are not inexpensive animals. De-
pending on size and age, cougars run $700 to
$1,500. An ocelot can easily cost $3,000.
Stokes says he only bought the ﬁrst cougar
and the 6-month-old jaguar. All the others
were given to him by people who could no
longer care for them or by veterinarians on
whom the cats had been dumped. ,

Maya lives off—the-leash in the house with
Stokes and the cub. Among the others, only
Mashanta is occasionally allowed out of her
cage without a leash. The others remain se-
cured at all times.

 

Eric Gay/Dallas Times Heraid

/

John Stokes gets a grip on 6-month-old Maya, one of two jaguars that roam his yard.

 




As Stokes strolls through the runs and
cages in the back yard, each cat shows a dis-
tinct personality. Mashanta lays her powerful
jaws on his shoulder and rumbles a purr as he
scratches her neck and speaks to her in a gen:
tle sing-song voice.

Wimpy perches atop his house, snarling and
snapping for several minutes, then abruptly
abandons the show to give his paws a thor-
ough cleaning. “He got his name for two rea-
sons,” Stokes says. “He eats just like the car—
toon character and, aside from all this
growling, he really is a wimp. If I went inside
the cage, he’d run into his house.”

Maya, the 40-pound adolescent, greets visi—
tors by bounding across the patio, pouncing
on their feet, tussling with their Shoelaces.
The favorite toys of young and old, however,
are plastic soda pop bottles and bowling balls.
“They could go through a basketball a day,”
Stokes says.

As he enters Bo’s 6-by-40-foot run, Stokes
moves slowly and steadily. “If I got nervous
around her, I’d be lost,” he says. As she 10115
on top of her house, StOkes playfully bats her
huge paws. He never takes his eyes from her
posture» and ears as they play.

“If her cars go straight back, I know there’s
a serious problem,” he says, adding that,
when Bo arrived, all she wanted to do was
attack. With the exception of the two that
were bought, all the cats once lived in homes
were they received inadequate or abusive
care, Stokes says.

Stokes says the cats eat about 24 pounds of
raw chicken 3 day and beef liver once a week.

- T

 

U.S., city regulate pets

_ The buying and selling of exotic ani-
mals is regulated by the federal govern-
ment, but ownership is regulated by City
law. .

Dallas, for example, bans ownershlp of

exotic animals by individuals, and Fort

Worth requires owners to obtain a US.

Department of Agriculture permit. Euless

places no restrictions on exotic pets.

Anyone interested in restrictions on
ownership of exotic animals should check
with his city animal control ofﬁce and the

USDA Animal and Plant Inspection .Ser-
vice in Austin.

 

 

 

He says he buys chicken 1,000 pounds at a
time to save money. He says he spent about
$2,700 on the cats last year exclusive of veter-
inary care, which he says he gets Virtually at a
group rate.

Despite the cost and time spent working
with the cats —— an average of three hours a
day —— Stokes says, “It’s very rewarding to
work with an abused, misunderstood cat until
it becomes a trusting animal again.” Eventual—
ly he hopes to move to the country where he
can breed endangered species and care for
abused animals.

Stokes says his hobby isn’t for everyone
and favors severe restrictions on ownership of
big cats. He rejects arguments that their wild
instincts inevitably surface in violent
behavior.

“They’re no more wild than we are,” he
says. “Their wild instincts center on self—pro-
tection and protection of their young. We re—
act ﬁiolently, too, when we feel ourselves or
our children threatened.”

He says the big reasons for not keeping
large cats are the time, money and public mis-
understanding. “Adopting a cat like this is
like adopting a child who is retarded, disabled
and of a different race than you," he says.
“Along with all the other special problems of
care, public Opinion is against you.”

Rightly so, says Ron Kagan, curator at the

Dallas Zoo and a Vehement opponent of gen-
eral public ownership of exotic animals. “The
vast majority of (exotic animal} owners don’t
have the professional or educational back-
ground to provide for the needs of the ani~
mals," Kagan says. “And of course, the ani—
mals pose a real threat. All in all, it's a sad
idea.”
. Stokes says his neighbors “keep a constant
interest” in his cats, but no one has objected
to their presence. “The neighbors have seen
them grow up," he says. “It’s much less in-
timidating to see a ZOO-pound jaguar if you’ve
seen it as a kitten.” ,

 

INT. HERALD TRIBUNE - May 8, 1986

 

2 Woodpecker-s,
feared Extinct,
Sighted in Cuba

U. S. and Cuban scien-
tists have discovered
at least two ivory-billed
woodpeckers in a Cuban
forest —- the first sight-
ing in years of a species
many experts had be-
lieved extinct. The ivory

 

 

r’

bill is North America’s
largest woodpecker.

Painting by George Sandstrom, from "Wood-
pecker: of the World" by L L Short

 

 




ZB . The Denver Post/ Sunday, May 4,1986

Yellowstone’ s proposed buffalo barrier

By The Associated Press

YELLOWSTONE NATIONAL
PARK, Wyo. — The National Park
Service has proposed building a
fence inside Yellowstone National
Park to keep buffalo contained
within the park’s interior.

Fund for Animals President
Cleveland Amory says he’s pleased
by the proposal, and adds that the
plan’s implementation may lead
the New York-based animal pro-
tection group to drop its lawsuit
seeking an end to Montana’s con-
troversial buffalo hunt.

The Park Service plan, an-
nounced last week, focuses on con-
taining the bison within the park’s
interior rather than keeping the
buffalo from wandering over park
boundaries, said Ben Clary, assist-
ant superintendent at Yellowstone.

In early December, the Fund for
Animals failed. in its attempt to get
a temporary restraining order in
U. S. District Court in Missoula to
stop Montana’s bison hunt. '

Amory has been negotiating with
park officials ever since. He says
the Park Service plan is “exactly
our original intention.”

~ The fund had said it would build
a fence in cooperation with the
Royal Teton Ranch for $30,000
along 2% miles of the park’s bor-
der in efforts to impede bison
crossing park boundaries. Another
plan the fund offered to stop the
hunt was an animal adoption pro-
gram, wherein wandering bison
would be relocated to private
ranches instead of shot by hunters.
“We feel the Fund for Animals

the Park Service to acknowledge .

their responsibility to protect and
maintain these animals,” Amory
said.

So far this year, about 50 bison
have been shot by hunters after
straying outside the park’s north
and west boundaries into Montana.

Montana legislators last year ap-
proved a special hunting season —
the state’s first in 25 years— to
shoot buffalo that roam from the
park. Montana ranchers are wor-
ried the buffalo might infect their
cattle herds with brucellosis, a dis-
ease that causes cattle to abort
their calves.

Before the hunting season 'was
established, state game wardens
shot bison that roamed from the
park. Eighty eight bison were shot
in late 1984 and early 1985 by war-

. ——____—

has prevailed to a large extent on

 

 

wins animal fans’ support

dens.

Park officials previously had
said they doubted a fence would
work or might impede migration of
other park animals.

Clary said the fence proposal

and other “adversive conditioning”

options are part of a three-year tri-.

al program. Adversive condition-
ing includes shooting rubber bu].
lets at the bison and using electric
lights to try to scare them into
turning back.

And there’s a possibility of trap-
ping some of the lead animals, hop
ing the herd would turn back once
the leader is absent, Clary said.

“We are looking at any type of
action that will induce some stress
in the herd so they will turn and go
the other direction. Basically, we-
want to contain them and turn

them back into the interior of the
park, ” Clary said.

The proposal to construct a
fence inside the park, several
miles east of Mammoth, where the
terrain narrows, is preliminary
and its type and location have not
been determined, he added.

The plan calls for a buck-and-rail
standard fence or an electric
fence. With the standard fence —
strong enough to stop a 1,500-pound
bison — gaps would be left in early
fall to allow for elk and deer mi-
gration. Then the gaps would be
closed when bison move close. The
electric fence, if electricity is
available, would be turned on only
when bison are in the area.

Along the fence, a cattle guard

would be constructed in the road-
way to keep the bison from walk-
ing down the road, he said.

However, options for controlling
the herd once it gets in the Mam.
moth and Gardiner areas are limit-
ed, Clary said, because the land
there is open. .

" “It is our belief it is more a reco-
lonization effort,” he said. “It’s not
a food problem. This winter has
not been that difficult, especially in
the Mammoth and Gardiner area
and even on the Blacktail Pla-
teau,” he said.

“Our philosphy hasn’t changed
in terms of natural management,”
Clary said. “If wildlife is creating
a problem, then we should manage
them as we can.”

-.

-

 




CHICAGO TRIBUNE - May 5, 1986

’ "Even pets get a day.
in church, bless r’em ‘

By Barbara Mahany

It was a pilgrimage for all reasons,
this gathering of God’s creatures at
St. Chrysostom’s Episcopal Church
on North Dearbom Parkway. '

For Flint the mixed breed,
Peaches the tabby and Udel the tor-
toise shell, cats that came tucked
inside a wicker picnic basket, it was
a desperate attempt to absolve them
of their evil ways.

“They need it,” said exasperated
cat-owner Chris Hunter, 15, of the
Near North Side, who proved his
point by noting that just last week
the felines had “broken some crys—
tal—just my mom’s antique crystal;
done stuff on the Oriental rugs; and
gotten into the brownies on the
kitchen counter.” *

For Chico the Chihuahua, who
was whispered to have an~inopera~
ble heart condition, the trip to the
church was hoped to bring divine
intervention.

And for Sassi, “one of God’s little
mysteries,” better known as a mutt,
it was simply a “once-a-year spiritu-

happening,” according to Mary
H. Walker, who was decked out in
orange jewelry, orange purse and
orange socks to match her 10-year-
old dog’s pompon. “We ﬁgure it
gets God’s attention,” a most rever-
ent Walker said of her well-coiffed
dog’s attire.

And so they me, the creatures
of Gold Coast condos and far west
suburban farms, to receive the bles-
, sings of Rogation Sunday, the ﬁfth

Rev. Robert Howell, rector

Sunday after .Easter when animals
are called to church for a special
invocation. '

The Regation prayer was original-

ly a 4th «Century thanksgiving in
France when a volcano ceased erup-
ting and saved the harvests and
beasts of burden. And unbeknownst
to most of the pet owners, it is a
rite of fertility.
_, “No, no, no,” said the owner of a
95-pound French sheep dog named
Kali, when informed of the rite’s in-
tention. Although the Sauganash
man didn’t immediately duck out,
he and his pooch were absent when
Rev. Robert Howell, rector of St.
Chrysostom’s, opened the prayer.

Sunday’s menagerie of yelping,
squawking, meowing creatures was
the 19th drawn to the shaded gar-

den of the church at 1424 N. Dear- .
bom Pkwy. Unlike other years, this-

year’s benediction, technically a
prayer for bountiful ﬁelds as well as
plentiful beasts, was without things

Among the inﬁrm in years past
were a sickly tomato plant and an
African violet with an unknown ail-
ment, said parishioner Jo Ann
Larkin, who left her two cats at
home so she could “keep an eye on
the canine patrol, the mounted po-
lice and the TV crews.”

This year, though, was not with-
out the unusual.

Dr. Jim McDonnell, a 30—year-old
medical resident working in the
emergency room of Northwestern
Memorial Hospital, came unaccom-

of St. Cbrysostom’s, blesses‘ Footer;

panied- -. . ~ .

“Originally,” he said, inching his
way to the front of the crowd, “this
Was for the beasts of burden. 1 con-
sider myself one of them.”

Also there representing the pre-
dominant segment of the Near
’North Side’s population was
equestrian Merle Gross’ “yuppie

puppy,” a Chinese shar-pei nar‘ned
Chen-Yi, Chinese for “fulfilled
blessing,” Gross said. . ~
Coddling her wrinlde-faeed Orien-
tal import, .,Grossz said ‘.!she and
Chen-Yi would; be ‘beseedhing the
Lord for “a healthy . year and a bet-'
ter relationshipf'with horses.” A real
problem, she noted, ,was that Chen-

Yi had ‘tt'aken a" liking ‘to licking

hors‘es’ back .. hooves.

But Gross. said she had no doubt
that consadeiing her dog’s name, the
blessmg would be fulﬁlled and the
daily workout at the stables Would
30 longer be a threat to her beloved

owned by Lea

Tribune photo by Carl Hugare

h Gianopu, Sunday.

 




ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH - 5/6/86

 

' ‘ ~ . - ’ Plastic Sea Debris
Humane ls Killing Animals

 

 

Animal Lovers‘Use Week
ToList Needs 0f Pets

By Kathryn Rogers
Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

This is the American Humane
Association’s 72nd annual “Be
Kind to Animals Week,” and ani-
mal-welfare groups are remind-
ing owners that without ‘some
- kindness and basic necessities, it
can truly be a dog’s life for pets
all year round. , ;

Sue Gassner, director of public
relations for the Humane Society
of Missouri at 1210 Macklind Ave-
nue, says the necessities include
adequate food and «water and
proper shelter —— things owners
frequently fail to provide. * »

Another .necessity is providing

the pet with proper identification,
an action that is being stressed
this year by the American Hu-
mane Association.

“Taking a moment to put an
identification tag on your pet can
make all the difference between
the pet being safely returned to
you or never being returned to
you,” Gassner said. She said iden-
tification tags can be bought for
about $1 at shelters and most pet
stores. .

Gassner and representatives of
other organizations have addition-
al suggestions on how to be kind
to animals this week and. every
week: ~
> People who spot a stray ani-
mal or lost pet should get in touch
with the St. Louis oathe St. Louis
County rabies cont'rpl office. If
the animal is in danger or is sick
or injured, a local Humane Soci-
ety office should be notified,
Gassner said. ‘.

b Owners should have their
pets spayed or neutered. More
than 5,000 cats and dogs are born
every hour in the United States,
Gassner said, but only about 2
percent find lifetime homes
where they are cared for.

Many will be killed “because
there won’t be homes for them,”
she said. “And over 2,000 animals

born every hour will be dumped
on the streets and highways.”

> Anyone who believes an ani-
mal is being abused or neglected
should get in touch with a Hu-
mane Society office. Gassner said
the caller would remain anony-
mous and that the Humane Soci-
ety would respond to every call.
Field workers will talk to the own-
er about how to care for the pet.

If the conditions are not cor-
rected, the Humane Society will
seek a court order to take the ani-
mal away, Gassner said.

> Sheri Beck, a spokeswoman
for People for the Ethical Treat-
ment of Animals, said that owners
who must give up their pets
should find homes for them or
take them to an animal shelter.
Above all, the animals should not
be abandoned. -

“People are under the mistak-
en impression that they can let a
domesticated cat or dog out and
they will be able to live in the
wild,” Beck said. She is now try-
ing to find homes for cats and
kittens that were abandoned at an
apartment complex in Brentwood.
Many of the owners were evicted

.when the complex changed to

condominiums, she said.

The life of an abandoned ani-
mal is seldom happy, she said.
“They die of starvation and expo-
sure or they’re snatched by
poachers.” '

V Owners who are giving their
pets away should make sure the
animals go to people who will
care for them, Beck said. Her or-
ganization warns against placing
“free to good home” advertise-
ments in newspapers. Unscrupu-
lous dealers may pretend that
they want the pet for their fam-
ilies, then sell it to a laboratory
for experimentation, Beck said.

Some anti-vivisectionist organi-
zations recommend that a pet
owner charge a fee for the pet to
discourage dealers, she said.

 

@1986. Los Angelo: Times P ACIFlC GROVE. Calif.

LASTIC TRASH in the oceans is maiming and killing
fish, turtles, seals and sea birds. It poses a threat to
marine life that rivals oil spills and toxic chemicals.

Sea animals, including endangered species, are not
only becoming entangled in discarded fishing nets but
also mistaking small pieces and sheets of plastic as food,
often with fatal results.

“it's occurring over almost every marine species to
some degree,” said James Coe of the US. National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration during the
annual Ocean Disposal Symposium here.

“Education is one of our only real hopes," added
Nancy Monroe, an Alaska publicist who is under a
federal contract to help develop an education campaign

‘ ' against ocean pollution. “The laws prohibiting dumping

are vague at best."

Coe and other scientists say that ocean pollution will
almost certainly worsen before improving because
plastics are fast replacing biodegradable natural
packaging materials and because there appear to be few
effective laws or international treaties to regulate ocean
poUuhon.

The primary sources of plastics in the ocean are trash
from ships, litter carried to the sea by rivers and storm-
water drainage systems and items left behind by
beachgoers. .

in addition, fishing fleets are said to be responsxble for
dumping 26,000 tons of plastic packaging materials each
year into the seas and for losing or discarding another
150,000 tons of non-degradable fishing gear. according to

i researchers at the sympbsium. ““5, Page 5

Plastic debris has washed up on
remote islands in the Antarctic and
the beaches of Amchitka Island in the
western Aleutians, researchers said.

On Midway and Oahu islands, 90
percent of 50 Laysan albatrosses and
wedge-tailed shearwaters, some of
them already dead, were foundto
have plastics in their upper digestlve

' tracts. Some died of ulcers. Others
starved or were unable to regurgitate
‘food for chicks.

Charles W. Fowler of the National
Marine Mammal Laboratory in Seat-
tle said a statistical analysis indicated
a connection between the declining
population of northern fur seals of
the Pribilof Islands north of the Aleu-
tians and an increasing incidence of
entanglement in lost or discarded
fishing nets. '

. Among the'most Vulnerable to plas-
tics are sea turtles, which are on the
endangered species list, because thev

mistake them for one of their favorite
foods, jellyfish, according to Archie
Carr, a University of Florida
zoologist.

Ronald Bruner of the Washington-
based Society of the Plastics Industry,
said in a telephone interview that
plastics manufacturers were con-
cerned about the pollution of the
oceans. However, he added, “How
much of it is our problem, and how
much of it is the way the product 15
handled once it leaves our hands?”

 




GAINESVILLE, (GA) TIMES - May 5, 1986

On ducks and laws and boat docks

This story is about Bob and Katie and
Mary Jean and Alice. Bob loves Katie and
Alice, and Katie loves Bob and Alice. Mary
Jean loves Alice, and Alice loves to be
loved.

Alice is a Canada goose, and this story
also is about ducks, and wildlife protection
laws, and Styrofoam under boat docks.

Alice lives in the yard of the home of
Mary Jean Sallee on northern Lake Lanier.
Katie and Bob Stamps live in an apartment
in the Sallee home.

The Canada goose was found injured in
the yard two years ago. Her mate was
found dead nearby. A call to the Georgia
Game and Fish Division got instructions to
take Alice and put her in the lake. This was
' done, but Alice dragged herself back into
the yard.

With scraps from the table and a small
plastic container for water, she completely
recovered in a few weeks. ,

She decided to permanently adopt the
humans who had been so kind to her, and
she soon found that she could get them to
perform for her.

They had fed her mashed potatoes from
a spoon, and she learned that if she refused
to eat off the ground, Katie would often
feed her from a spoon.

She found that if she chased a stream of
water coming from a hose, Katie would
splash the water all over her feathers.

Alice found that guarding the property
and keeping all dogs and strangers away
increased the affection of these humans.

She learned that if she did exactly what
Bob told her, she would receive special
tasty nibbles. He tells her to pull his trou-
sers if she wants something to eat, and she
obediently pulls his trousers as many times
as he asks. If he asks her to shake a patio
chair, she obediently shakes the chair, and

she always gets the same results from Bob
— a bite of tasty food. If he wants her to
pull someone else’s trousers, he tells her,
and she does.

Alice allows Katie to plant flowers in the
yard, but she gets extremely upset if some-
one is so thoughtless as to pick the beauti-
ful blooms and take them in the house.

She likes to listen to the TV as Bob
watches it at night. She remains outside
the glass doors until he turns off the TV and
lights, then she departs to the lake and
guard duty.

In two years, Mary Jean has grown de—
pendent on Alice as a. guard. Mary Jean
knows she’s fairly safe with Alice around,
because the web—footed protector raises a
ruckus and scares any stranger away. If
the stranger does not move fast enough,
Alice does not hesitate to throw her small
body into full attack.

But Alice, who was a loner for many
months, now has invited other winged
creatures to share her good fortune. Some
of Alice’s new friends are ducks.

And these ducks, Huey, Louie, Dewey,
and their father, Alex, and mother, Andie,
like to nibble on Styrofoam under boat
docks.

They don’t particularly care for the Sty-

rofoam under Mary Jean’s dock, although
it does have a few missing peck-sized
pieces, but they love the cellular pollysty-
rene under Coy Skaggs’ dock next door.

Coy, who is recovering from back sur-
gery, had his Styrofoam painted black to
fool the ducks. And Andie was probably
smiling as she tore out a nice hole fOr her
nest in the black dock-floaters.

The Georgia Game and Fish Division
loaned Coy a weapon called a “screaming
gun.” It was supposed to scare the ducks
away. Several times Coy shot, the gun
screamed, humans listened in awe, and the

, ducks went about their usual business, un-

perturbed.

Kent Kammermeyer with Game and
Fish says they can loan another gun that
shoots firecrackers and a lot of smoke.

The Corps of Engineers does not allow
shooting regular firearms around the lake,
and the state Game and Fish doesn’t allow
killing of mallards except during a limited
season. The law does not allow killing of
Canada geese at any time.

Bob says he’s found someone who will
take the ducks and keep them in a pen. Coy
says that’s great. But, first, Bob has to
catch the ducks.

In the meantime, Mary Jean, Katie and
Bob are hoping that their beloved Alice
can be happy again living without feath-
ered friends.

They are dependent on Alice as a guard
goose, and her antics bring frequent
chuckles. But Alice cannot invite more
ducks to join her. Mary Jean, Katie and
Bob also like their neighbors, and they
don’t want to see any more Styrofoam dis-
appearing from underneath neighbors’
docks.

Alma Bowen is editor of the Poultry
Times, a sister publication of The Times.

 




DETROIT FREE PRESS

- May 2,1986

Bloody cockfighting still thrives,
although outlawed 111 44 states

v DUDLEY CLENDINEN
New York Times
RAEFORD, N.C. — On a cold Satur-
day morning, scores of pickup trucks
and vans from four states converged on
a cenverted hog breeding parlor" 1n the
backwoods of the poorest county in

North Carolina, bringing hundreds of

caged birds and their owners to indulge
in a bloody and illegal secret ritual.

When sheriff’s deputies closed 1n on
the long, shed-like building in late
afternoon, in the largest such raid in
the state’s history, they found ample
evidence that the blood sport once
favored by George Washington and
Thomas Jefferson still thrives.

It is cockfighting, in which two
gamecocks bred to kill are placed in a
pit to fight each other to the death.
Condemned as barbaric by the Humane
Society of the United States and out-
lawed in 44 states, it continues to be
practiced by hundreds of thousands of
people, including legislators, law-en-
forcement officers and preachers.

The practice of the sport, and the
money wagered on it, appear to be
growing in popularity, here in the

private spaces of the Old South and 1n

cities from New York to Los Angeles.
The breeding of gamecocks is an
industry that supports three trade

magazines and a national organization!

with affiliate chapters in 33 states.
Making cockfighting illegal “doesn’t

stop it,” says Belton Hodges, a retired.

locomotive engineer who is president
of the United Gamefowl Breeders As-
sociation.

“These do-good elements we’ve got
here, they’ re out to control every-
thing,” Hodges complained by phone
from his home in Arizona, which al-
lows cockfighting.

THE CHIEF “do- good” organiza-
tion, in Hodges’ eyes, is the Humane

SoCiety, which works to eradicate
blond sports like cockfighting and dog-

fighting by legislative lobbying and by

V

infiltrating the ranks of partisans. The
effort 1s not gentle work.

“They do have armed guards at the

entrances,” said Robert Baker, a field
investigator in the society’s Washing-
ton office who once had a gun pulled on
him at a cockfight.

Cockfighting, Baker said, long has
been popular 1n the Appalachian states.
The gamecock is the mascot of the
University of South Carolina. And
cockfighting, he said, is common in the

Cajun country of Louisiana and in'

Hispanic parts of Miami, New York,
Los Angeles and much of the South-

~ WCSt.

Cockfights “are getting harder to
infiltrate,” according to Baker. “Some-
body has to recommend you. Or you
have to show a United Gamefowl mem-

bership card. And one of our biggest
problems 1n preventing Cockfighting 1s,-

that law-enforcement agents are reluc-
tant to move in on it, either because

they condone it, or they’ re taking
payoffs from it, or it’s just not a high

priority with them.”

David Barrington, the sheriff of
Hoke County for 24 years, said he '
”ordered the February raid after he was

stung to discover that the director of
the state Bureau of Investigation had
received an anonymous letter com-
plaining that a regular Cockfighting
derby was being staged here by a
promoter who boasted that he had the
sheriff’s permission.

When all his deputies and a bor-
rowed tactical squad moved in on the
long shed that Saturday, Barrington

said, 206 people were Cheering and :

stamping on home-made bleachers

around a blood-soaked pit where two :

 

gameCocks were fighting with sharp
metal .gaffs tied to their legs.

It is the gamecoCks’ courage —1
their “gameness” — which breeders
and partisans say they so admire.

“I’ve seen both cooks blinded and

dying 1n the ring,” said Pat Reese, who
witnessed coCkfights as a boy in the
mountains of western North Carolina.
And “the last one to strike— even
though he doesn’t hit the other one — is
the winner. My God, they’ re brave.”

 

 

 




LOS ANGELES TIMES magazine - May 4, 1986

C arol Holmes’ first View
of 3-year-old Appaloo-
sa gelding Comrie Caprice
was of “pink eyes in a dark
stall, a scrawny tail and a
few white snowflakes on a
gangly black body.” Hardly
the show prospect she was
seeking for her young
daughter Kim. Yet, there
was something special
about him, she knew, be-
cause he came right over
and began licking her, thus
earning the name Killer in
that inexplicable custom
that dubs a fat person Tiny
or a tall one Shorty. But it’s
Killer’s tail this story is
about, not his name.

Four years later—in Oc-
tober, 1978—the hills of
Malibu were ravaged by a
fire that left the Holmeses’
White Cloud Ranch the on-
ly thing standing for miles.
While the fire raged on all
sides, Killer, ridden by
then-‘16-year-old Kim, led
strings of younger horses to
relative safety. On the third
trip, an entire hillside ex-

A Troubled Ending

BY KATHLEEN BROWN

 

Trial after trial, Killer (with Kim Holmes) came through, but always something was missing.

ploded into flames, and
Kim, frightened, jumped
off, leaving Killer to his
own devices. After what
seemed like an eternity,
Killer came limping through
the smoke, a branch run

 

through his left front leg,
patches of hair still smol-
dering and his tail burned
clear off.

When the smoke cleared,
his veterinarian discovered
that the branch had missed

all major arteries, tendons
and ligaments, leaving just
a nice, clean hole. Two
weeks later, Killer ap-
peared at a prestigious
show in San Francisco’s

Continued

W

W,

Cow Palace, where he won four out of
five classes. A week after that, he went
to the World Championship Appaloo-
sa Show in Oklahoma City, where he
took championships in jumping and
negotiating trail obstacles and missed
winning the all-around champion-
ship by one point. All with no tail.
On his way home from that show,
Killer somehow got turned upside
down in the trailer, all four feet in the
air, and bloated up like a balloon. He
couldn’t be budged. A vet flew in by
helicopter from more than a hundred
miles away and came running, not
with his black bag, but with a shot-
gun. But while waiting for the vet,
Holmes had gotten a tow truck to
come from a nearby garage. They had
attached chains to Killer’s legs, which
were protected by heavily padded
traveling boOts, and hauled him out.
After brieﬂy walking Killer around,
Holmes loaded him back into the
trailer and continued. He ended up
with no damage other than a minor
cut over one eye, which swelled into
an enormous shiner. For the next
three days, as they traveled to a show

 

just below the Oregon border, Killer
alternately wore ice packs and beef-
steaks over his eye—and won high
point honors at the show, black eye,
burned-off tail and all.

One day, the Holmeses got a call
from a movie studio that needed a
horse for a TV movie about a dying
boy whose dying grandfather buys an
old broken-down horse for the boy to
care for. Killer, though, was neither
old nor broken down, so a makeup
artist drew in ribs and colored his hair
gray. Killer would relax his ears on
command, hang his head and drag his
feet, creating the pure pathos the role
required. Killer won the hearts of the
entire film crew with his clever tricks:
begging ice cream and lemon Popsi-
cles, even drinking soda by tipping a
cup in his teeth.

But back to the tail. Killer had long
been known on the show circuit by
his tail, or lack thereof. Just when it
had grown back, Killer, again on the
way to a show, kept switching that tail
in the face of the horse behind him.
That horse, tiring of Killer’s games,
bit through his tail to the bone, leav-

ing a three-inch stump. At the show,
the Holmeses borrowed a false tail,
but just as Killer was going into the
ring a bee landed on his rump and he
switched the tail with enough force
that it ﬂew off, landing at the judge’s
feet. Killer won the class anyway.
Killer’s 15 now. His tail will never
be beautiful by anyone’s standards,
but, then, it’s at the opposite end of
all the intelligence, personality and
courage, so who cares? El

 




 

 

gy of the park The service is madeup
mostly of cops interested in keeping big
budgets, he argues, offering a detailed
and devastating [report on how it got
that way.

The environmental movement has
been no help, he argues. Many of its top
paid leaders have gone through the re-
volving door of federal service and have
5 a vested interest in park policies. Rather

than playing the role of loyal opposition
and scientiﬁc referee, the mainline envi-
'ronmental groups have become willing
lap dogs.

Current environmental ideals lead to.
no better results, he argues at too great
5310ng in ﬁve chapters at the end of the

Chase’s is a lonely voice, calling down.

from the mountains of Montana, where
he lives just north of the park, with a
restrained prophetic gloom. Must We
deny and hate man’s role in nature, he
asks, providing us at the same time a
textbook case of the sort of damage man
can do.

Chase left teaching philosophy in Min-
nesota in 1972 to come West, where he
bought a ranch in a remote spot in" the
Smith River country. He and his wife,

Diana, ran a summer youth ranch,

hiking, fishing and camping the
backwoods about which he has written
in this book. He gave up the ranch for
the book, he says in a preface, the pub-
lisher‘s advance being too small to sup-
port the $7,000 a year mortgage and
living expenses.
IntalkswithChaseduringhisyearson

the ranch and while he was writing the
book, I found him as he appears in these
pages, a product of Princeton and 0x-
ford who took to the woods but main-
tained his mental rigor. . He gives no

“Mr” . “"‘ftt‘r'i ”1:" ""“Hi '
’ HA 4 A -.,'.I. a 1 ' '

tion of the park senaee, antic; sweet
: none in return. That’s the way of battles
* 1n the wrldemess. .

 

HOUSTON CHRONICLE - May 3, 1986

 

“ By KEVIN MORAN

Houston Chronicle

 

GALVESTON — Federal officials
are investigating the deaths of 61
sea turtles - many of them endan-
gered Kemp’s Ridley turtles -— that
have washed up on beaches between
Galveston and Sabine Pass since
late March.

On April 25, the Albuquerque,
NM, regional office of the US. Fish
and Wildlife Service reported 47
dead turtles beached since March.

“By midweek it was up to 56 and

- now it’s up to 61 that we know of,”

Tom Smylie, the service’s public af-
fairs officer, said Friday.

7’ Of the 47 turtles found dead by

April 25, 30 were Kemp’s Ridley

-turtles, the most endangered spe-

'cies of sea turtle in the world.
Smylie said many of the turtles

. , have had their flippers and heads
1 ; cut off and obviously were muti—
j . lated by humans.

Autopsies have been performed

I 7 on some of the dead turtles, Smylie
; ‘ said.

“We really can’t determine a
cause of death yet, but we’re work-
ing, with the National Oceanic and
Flint/art. ac“; to ti5
to find out,” Smylie said.

Advocates of a preservation pro-
gram for Ridley turtles believe

5 many of the deaths result from the

- Officials investigate
deaths of sea turtles

animals being caught in nets of
shrimp boats. .

“We’re not willing to say at this
time that the shrimpers are causing
it because we’re still investigating,"
Smylie said.

Others believe that turtles are dy-
ing from the concussion of dyna-
mite blasts when oil companies use
the explosive to remove legs of oil
rigs from the seabed in the Gulf of
Mexico.

f‘The oil companies are very con-
cerned about it,” Smylie said.
“We‘re taking a look at that, and
they’re taking a look at it to see if
it’s a major problem and, if it is.
seeing if there’s another way of do-
ing it.”

Smylie said federal officials do
not know yet when their investiga-
tion into the turtle deaths will be
completed.

One problem. he said, is that tur-
tles found on the beach often are so
decomposed that no cause of death
can be determined.

The number of Kemp’s Ridley
turtles found in the last week was
not available.

Smylie warned that sea turtles
are protected by federal law and.
that .. and; 2.2;: aziiiiiais

on the beach and cuts the head, flip-

- pers or shells off could face up to

five years in prison and/or a $20,000
fine.

 

 




 

CHICAGO TRIBUNE — May 4,

VOiCe cries out "
for natural order

Playing God in Yellowstone

By Alston Chase

Atlantic Monthly Press, 446 pages, $24.95
Reviewed by John N. MacLean

A correspondent in The Tribune’s
Washington Bureau

 

 

hen the white man ﬁrst came

to the high plateau we now

call Yellowstone National
" ' “Park he risked starving to
death. , ,

In 1874 a party of experienwd hunters
could ﬁnd no animal track in Hayden
Valley, a spot abundant with bison and
elk today. “Not a fresh track and
nothing whatever eatable to_ ’be seen,”.
wrote the leader of the party. _

Others reported the same experience.
“A bird can’t ﬂy over that without tak—
ing a supply of grub along,” scout Jim

Bridger warned in 1856, cautioning an

‘ explorer who hoped to cross the Yellow-
stone plateau. Game animals browsed
the park 'for summer forage, but its hi
altitude. and bitter winters made it ar
less appealing as range than the plain
along the lower Yellowstone.

Nomadic Indians camped on the

plateau, making tools from the famous.

obsidian wall, hunting game and exten-
sively buming the grass and forests as
was their custom. They burned for many
reasons, such as to drive game, create
ﬁesh pasture and cut trails, a practice
outlawed by the white man.

The white man forced the Indians out
and the game up into the park in great
numbers around the turn of the century.
By the time President Teddy Roosevelt
visited in 1903, the park had become, in
his words, “a natural breeding ground
and nursery for those stately and beau-
tiful haunters of the wilds which have
now vanished from so many of the great
forests, the vast lonely plains, and the
high mountain ranges, where they once
abounded.” ' .

Today some critics call Yellowstone an
outdoor zoo, its numerous herds of elk
and bison giving the impression of over—
ly domesticated contentment, unless a
visitor gets too close to a bison and it

charges.

But what big animals other than elk or
bison does the visitor see? Not the black
bears that once caused long back-ups
along Yellowstone’s highways as they
begged for marshmallows, cheese sand-
wiches and other tourist offerings. Not

antelope, seen by Roosevelt in the thou-.

sands.

Furtive wolves have vanished, despite
an apparent secret effort by the park ser-
vice to replant them and falsify historical
Sightings. Gone are white-tailed deer,
mountain lions, wolverines, lynx, bob-
cats and ﬁshers. And the grizzly, symbol
of wildness, has been nearly exter-
minated.

 

 

 

1986

Yellowstone should be a joyous story
a celebration of the outdoor world avail:
able to the public for education, use and
enjoyment. But a far bleaker picture is
seen by Alston Chase, author of “Play-
ing God in Yellowstone: The Destruc—
tion of America’s First National Park.”

Chase has documented with rigor the
slaughter and mismanagement of Yel-
lowstone’s “aldlrfe by the National Park
Servrce and the environmental. move-
ment. He has performed a valuable na-
tional servrce which likely will earn him

, few powerful friends and many enemies. '

In the name of high ideals, he tells
predators like thezmounztain lion a3?

wolf have been killed, bison and
herds allowed to expand their numbglrl;
until they ruin range for other animals,
screntrsts wrth contrary opinions refused
the prrvrlege of research in the park and
thghvzgerst nnStlakes covered up.

’5 wor on the gnzzl' alread
has been excerpted in Atlantic and Out}:
srde magazrnes. A federal interagency
study team, put together before Chase
began publishing, has made recommen—
datrons, but Chase faults them as mainly
a.tool pf the park service. He raises the
disturbmg question about the team’s ac-

tivities:_“Had they been ﬁghting for a

l

 

policy that all along had been run by
and for managers who saw extermina-
tion as the only way to solve the bear
problem?”

If so, that is a scathing indictment of
the park service. But even more disturb.
ing, what ifit is only a small part of the
story? What if the grizzly bears and
other fauna of the park are less threaten-
ed by butchering park oﬁi ' than by
high-sounding but rntellectually bankrupt
environmental ideals?

It is this second possibility that

becomes Chase’s theme. He follows,

through the public recordand by inter-

.views with disaffected ofﬁcials, the birth
, and life of the ideal of applying ecology

and “natural regulation” to Yellowstone

park.

What a grand thing this should be, the
application of a healing vision of the in-
terrelatedness of the living world to one
of its natural wonders. And what a scrry
mess it has become, one in which any
activist role by man—such as controlled
burning, thinning elk and bison herds or
fading grizzlies—is viewed as hateful in-
terference in nature’s ways. -

In the name of natural regulation
Yellowstone has assumed a wholly un-

r- natural appearance. Chase argues that

the park service lacks the scientiﬁc capa-
bility to understand the history or ecolo-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




OAKLAND, CA TRIBUNE - April 25, 1986

‘Does Not Apply to Humans!’

 

 

Berkeley protesters march to pressure, university officials to

By Rod Lamkey Jr./Special to The Tribune

end research using animals.

Animal-rights activists arrested at UC protest

By The Tribune mm and news services

At least 111 animal-rights activists, in-
cluding 21 at the University of California
at Berkeley, were arrested yesterday for
blocking access to college research centers
during statewide protests against treat-
ment of lab animals.

About a dozen protesters also assem-
bled at the University of Nevada at Reno
on National Laboratory Animals Day,

sponsored by the April 24 Coalition, and
protest organizers said 23 campuses were
targeted in California, Nevada, Arizona,
New York, Pennsylvania, Florida, Wash-
ington, Michigan and Minnesota.

In- addition to the arrests at UC-Berke-
ley, 10 peeple were arrested at UC-San
Francisco, 14 at UC-Davis, 48 for blocking
a driveway at UCLA, 10 at UC-Irvine and
eight at the University of Southern Califor-

 

nia in Los Angeles.

At Berkeley, about 70 pe0ple marched
to Tolman Hall but were unable to enter
the guarded room where animals are kept.
A stairway was blocked instead by 21 peo-
ple, said UC spokesman Ray Colvig.

The arrests, which were prearranged
with police, were peaceful.

See PROTEST, Page 3-2

 




.' Thirty-five people protested
at UCSF, and about 10 who
blocked a bridgeway to an ani-
mal care facility were arrested
after being allowed to present
demands, said Dr. David Ram-
Say, senior vice chancellor for
academic affairs.

About 100 demonstrators
were denied entry when they
marched to two rear doors at
UCLA Medical Center’s NeurOp-
sychiatric Institute.

The group members, which
then blocked a driveway, were
advised repeatedly they would
be arrested.

Chanting, “Does Not Apply to
Humans!” protesters carried
signs that, read “Animal Ausch-
witz” and “Stop the U.C. Atroci-
ties.” Other signs said animal re.
search is not applicable to hu-
man diseases or condemned ani-

mal research as “medical fraud -

HOUSTON CHRONICLE - May 3, 1986

Animal agency chief
suspended for letter

 

By BURKE WATSON
. Houston Chronicle

 

; The chief of Houston’s Bureau of
Animal Regulation and Care was
suspended for five days without pay
Friday for accusing municipal
court judges of being lax in enforc-
ing animal control laws, and taking
the action without his boss’s knowl-
edge.

Dr. Robert E. Armstrong was

.handed the suspension, effective
Monday, because of a hotly worded
letter in which he told City Council
members that his officers are “to-
tally demoralized” by the judges’
practices.

City Health Director Dr. James
G. Haughton said he suspended
Armstrong because Armstrong vie»
lated department policy by not go-
ing through Haughton’s office. That

. was not the first time, he said.

, “This had happened before, and I
just talked to him about it,” Haugh-
ton said. “This time, he said he
knew about the policy but just got
carried away. He apologized.”

Armstrong, 51, could not be

* reached for comment. His April 24
letter was made public Wednesday
when Councilman Frank Mancuso
raised questions about the com-
plaints.

Armstrong said in the letter that
a member of his staff had studied
the outcomes of 286 consecutive ci-
tations for failure to immunize, fail-
ure to license or violation of the
leash law. Each offense is punish-
able by a fine of up to $200.

The average fine in those cases
was only $5.36, Armstrong wrote.

 

 

He said more than half of the pet
owners did not appear in court.

“In spite of state certification and
intensive training programs, ani-
mal control officers are still consid-
ered ignorant dog catchers by the
courts,” he wrote.

The letter also said the courts
show “overwhelming sympathy” for
animal owners and “near con-
tempt” for animal control officers.

Haughton said chief municipal
court Judge Felix Stanley “is livid,
and rightfully so.” Haughton said he-
was not told of the survey before it
was released to council, and has no
idea whether the figures give an ac
curate picture of how the courts
handle such cases.

He insisted that he did not disci-
pline Armstrong because of the
criticism, but because Armstrong
did not direct the complaints
through Haughton’s office.

“Nobody in this department com-
municates directly with the City
Council or the mayor’s office,”
Haughton said. “The reason is not
that I wanted to muzzle peOple. It’s
that I want to make absolutely sure
the mayor and City Council .get ac-
curate information.”

Haughton added that he hopes the
suspension sends a message to em-
ployees in supervisory positions.

“It’s important that the peOple in
my department understand that dis-
cipéine is not just for the peons,” he
sat .

The suspension will cost Arm-
strong about $925 in salary, accord-

ing to city records. He has been em- ‘~

ployed with the city since October
1982.

 

 

and pseudo science.”

“It’s just not right to kill ani-
mals who can’t defend them-
selves,” said protester Gayla Ba-
sehart

Dr. Glenn Langer, director of
cardiovascular research, said 88
percent of the animals used at
UCLA are mice and rats, 2 per-
cent are dogs and cats and the
remainder are other types of
small mammals.

He said there were few ad-
vancements in the treatment of
major diseases, such as polio and
smallpox, “that haven’t been de-

pendant on animal research.”

 




ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH - April 30,

 

Conservationists
Fuel Controversy
Over Forest Policy

By Iver Peterson
(@1986, New York Times News Service
KALISPELL, Mont.

HE FUTURE of the country’s 120 national forests is

being laid out in a process that has attracted
criticism both from people who want more economic
development of the forests and from those who want
less. .

In the Flathead National Forest in northern Montana,
those issues are drawn as clearly as anywhere. People
who believe the forests should produce timber and
minerals for local jobs are opposing those who want the
forest to be managed more like a national park, as a
place for recreation and wildlife.

At stake, say the proponents of development, are
thoUsands of jobs and the well-being of hundreds of
small towns across the West whose workers rely on the
timber and minerals of the national forest system.

Conservationists warn that vistas that many of them
moved West to enjoy may be threatened, the grizzly
bear and the wolf may decline in number, and a tourist
industry that may one day replace today’s struggling
sawmills as a source of jobs will never grow.

' The plans being drawn up are the first long-range, -
forest-by-forest management blueprints required under
the National Forest Management Act of 1976. The act
requires forest supervisors to look 50 years ahead and
draw up detailed plans for each of the 1.0- to 15-year
intervals between now and that “planning horizon.” The
plans must spell out how much timber cutting will be
allowed, where oil and gas drilling may take place,
What roads should be built, if any, and what lands .
should be set aside to remain wild.

Conservationists argue that the act was drawn up to
curb policies that resulted in excessive clearcutting of
lumber, land erosion, infringement on wildlife habitat
and the like.

They say their fears that the timber industry would
try to circumvent the act in the new forest plans were
confirmed when early draft plans envisaged a massive
increase in timber harvesting. Only a public outcry
forced the service to retreat. say people like Peter
Coppleman, senior counsel at the Wilderness Society, a
conservation group based in Washington.

“The final plans are a lot better than some of the
draft plans," Coppleman said, “but the net result is that
the Forest Service is in effect proposing to continue the
present level of harvesting and of road building, and
that‘s not good enough.”

Edgar B. Brannon, supervisor of Flathead National
Forest, divides the contending forces in this planning
process between “the utilitarians” and the “naturists.”
To varying degrees, he said, their opposing views are
reflected in continuing disagreements about the proper
use of the more than 400 million acres of public land in
the West and in the rest of the country. This land is
~ devoted not only to national forests but also to Bureau
of Land Management grazing areas, national monument

1986

lands, grasslands and American Indian reservations.
Brannon and timber industry leaders acknowledge

that through political skill and perseverance the

conservationists have the upper hand, and their success

is a measure of the degree to which national forests are

increasingly being managed like national parks.

The shift, over the years, away from widespread
exploitation of national forests and toward their
preservation is reflected in a timber industry analysis
of the breakdown of the forest system’s 187 million
acres across the country.

Of that total, 40 million acres is being managed as
prime timber harvesting land and an additional 23
million is open to restricted lumbering.

In addition, some 84 million acres is being kept either
as wilderness or as primitive and roadless, with little
activity taking place.

The remaining 40 million acres is not primarily
forested and is used for grazing or other purposes.

The debate over how national forests should be used
is not a new one. Early in the century, Gifford Pinchot.
the country’s first forester and founder of the national
forest system, stressed the careful management of
woodlands to increase their economic benefit to man.

Although he is remembered as a conservationist, he
was nonetheless opposed by John Muir, who argued for
protecting the bulk of American wild lands from any
economic use and went on to found the Sierra Club, a
conservation lobby.

In the Flathead National Forest, one of the flagship
forests of the system and one of the most productive in
timber, fully half the land is designated as wilderness
under current rules. A quarter consists of primitive,
roadless areas and only a quarter is open to timber
cutting. Before 1964, when Congress passed the
Wilderness Act, all the forest was technically open for
commercial development.

Similarly, plans being drawn up foresee a continued
reduction in timber cutting on public lands. In Oregon
and Washington, the Forest Service will cut annual
harvests by 20 percent from the present level
equivalent to 5 billion boards I foot square and 1 inch
thick. In California, the cut would drop to less than a
billion board feet from 1.8 billion. At Flathead, which
has occasionally produced almost 200 million board
feet in a year, Brannon’s plan envisages cutting no
more than 105 million board feet annually over the next
decade.

 




HOUSTON CHRONICLE - April 27, 1986

United Press international

On probation

Joe and Marion Greene of Warwick, R.l., are the
new owners of Laddie, a dog facing the death
penalty for alleged viciousness. The dog was put

I

in their custody on the condition that he keep his
teeth to himself after an agreement reached in

court.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Associated Press

 




THE DENVER POST - May 4, 1986

Beaver trapper still

makes rounds, but
not for ‘black gold’

By Ted Woods
Jackson Hole News

JACKSON, Wyo. - Beaver signs
are everywhere. '

~Gnawed, fallen trees, webbed-
toe tracks, foot-high mounds of
mud and sticks, and a towering
lodge of twigs and debris. And, of
course, the telltale dam and pond
through which a fence runs under-
water. '

John Branca, a 35-year-old
trapper practicing the trades of
Wyoming’s settlers, stops 10 feet
shy of the lodge to check one of
three traps he set the day before.
By Wyoming law, traps must be
checked at least every 72 hours,
but Branca makes the rounds daily
when possible.

;A broken, heavy-gauge wire
marks where the trap once had
been. Branca appears mildly as-
tounded. The bait, the castor gland
of a beaver, is gone and so is the
leg-hold trap, but the wire securing
the hardware to a tree has been
snapped .

,: Peering into the water, Branca
spots the beaver still in the trap,
drowned some five feet under. The
other end of “the drowning wire,”
as Branca calls it, remains lashed
to a rock 10 feet offshore. The trap
had been fixed to the .wire with a
one-way slide. In an attempt to
free itself, the trapped beaver
swam down to the wire, but could
not return for air. .

The beaver is small, maybe 10
pounds, and its pelt is dark and
past its winter prime. This dam-
aged beaver, as fur traders call it,
would be worth no more than $14.
Today, even the best beavers, with

pale, winter coats, fetch only $40
each.

“No one’s a full-time trapper
anymore,” said Branca: “I do it
because I’ve always done it and be
cause peOple need help with prob-
lem beavers. But it’s not a living.”

At one time beaver trapping in
Wyoming was more than a living
-— it was a passion. In the early
18005, beaver was in such demand
in the world’s fashion centers that
the mountain men who first sought
this furry bounty nicknamed the
beaver “black gold.”

In fact, if it weren’t for the bea-
ver, much of the West’s history
could be rewritten, especially in
Jackson Hole. Those in search of
“black gold” were the first to set-
tle the valley. ’I‘rappers like Bill
Sublette, J edediah Smith, John
Hoback and David Jackson found
the area so rich in beaver that by

the 18205 Jackson Hole was an im- -

portant crossroad of the Western
fur trade.

Branca is well-versed in this
trapping lore and rattles off anec-
dotes and facts with the ease of a
man wedded to a hobby. As direc-
tor of the Western Wyoming
Trappers Association, Branca pro-
motes trapping and is dedicated to
cleaning up a sport that suffers
from internal abuses and worsen-
ing public opinion.

When properly done, Branca in-
sists, trapping should not threaten
a species’ population and should be
as humane as possible.

Pointing to the leg-hold trap on

the drowned beaver, Branca said

he prefers not to use this type of
device, but that sometimes cir-

cumstances dictate otherwise.
Mostly he uses a larger, Conibear
body trap.

Set in runways or areas into
which beaver might swim, the Con-
ibear trap snaps shut on the ro-
dent’s neck, killing it instantly. The
possrbility of a non-fatal injury is
remote, according to Branca.

; Branca said the beaver popula-
tion in the valley about Jackson is

very healthy. The trapping season
on public lands runs from Oct 1
through June 15 and there is no
limit to the take. Trapping on pri-
vate lands can be done year-round.

Often Branca traps for landown-
ers. who complain of beavers on
their property. He also traps along
the Buffalo River and near the con-

fluence of the Hoback and Snake
rivers.

Branca smiles when asked what
his average yearly take is. Trying
to quantify nature often IS hard to
do, he said. If winter comes early,
the catch may only be two beaver.
the trapper noted. If the fall is
long, and the beaver stay active
and have fine winter coats, he may
take 50. .

But then spring may come early,
like this year, causing the coats to

degrade sooner, he said.

With the talk done, Branca re-
turns to his work, wading into
thigh-deep water in front of the
lodge. to check a body trap. The
trapis sprung, and empty. Bring-
ing it ashore, Branca resets the "
trap and places it back in the run- '
way. .

Sometimes, the beaver just plair
outsmarts the trapper.

 




HOUSTON CHRONICLE - May 3, 1986

 

 

; By GEORGE HUEBNER

l
i

Beginning Sunday, animal lovers

,' have an Opportunity to pay tribute to
‘2 the critical roles animals play in our
i daily lives during “Be Kind to Animals

Week," designated by the American
‘ Humane Association.
‘ History is heavily laden with ac-
. counts of man’s love, need and adora-
tion as well as fear and hatred of ani-

mals. who have had a significant ’

, impact on man’s mental, physical,
. emotional, social and economical well-
, being. '
i We owe a great deal to animals, and
. animal lovers need to make a commit-
pment to improving animal welfare. So—
ciologist Dr. Alan Beck said that “the
urban human population is divided into
warring camps - those who love ani-
rjmals and those who hate those who
love animals." There is a need to over-
,.-.'come the opposition to enforcement of
animal cruelty laws and the movement
‘_t0 stop the exploitation of animals.
Unfortunately the undying faith of
lianimals is not always repaid with kind-
«sness.
. Millions of animals endure pain and
, suffering to ensure the safety and ef-
fects of drugs that we use. Animals are
:confined for a lifetime to provide food
,‘for our tables.

Factory farming techniques are de-
;signed to produce the greatest quantity

;,,of meat regardless of the discomfort

‘_j the animals suffer. Animals used in re

search are blinded, have strokes in-

‘7 duced-and are infected with a variety

PET PLACE

of seriously debilitating diseases. Pet
suppliers often maintain animals in
cramped and unsanitary quarters. And
too many pet owners neglect to provide
adequate food and care for their ani-
mals. _

One of the best ways to be kind to
animals is to support the organizations
that protect the rights of animals. The
Associated Humane Societies (Houston
Humane Society. Citizens for Animal
Protection, Animal Rescue League Hu-
mane Ranch) and the Houston SPCA
provide three critical services essen-
tial to eliminating animal abuse —- hu-
mane education, enforcement of ani-

 

mal cruelty laws and the rescue ‘of.

injured and abandoned animals. These

. organizations need your financial sup« -
' port if these vital services are to con.
tinue at effective levels. During Be.

Kind to Animals Week don’t forget to
be generous to those people who pro-

vide kindness to abused animals every

week of the year. .

To offer our support contact the As:
sociated umane Societies, Division
241, 12496 Bellaire Blvd, Houston,
Texas 77272, and the Houston SPCA,
519 Studemont, Houston. Texas 77036.

Locally, humane organizations are
celebrating BKA week by holding spe-
cial activities.

Citizens for Animal Protection is in-.

viting the public to bring their pets to a

“Blessing of the Animals Service,” at

2:30 pm. Sunday at the CAP Pet Ad0p-
,, tion Center (497-0591).

’ The Houston SPCA is holding its an-
nual Mutt Show at noon Sunday. This
event allows owners to show off their
pets’ best qualities. The show will be at
the SPCA animal shelter. (869-8227).

0 o 0
Behavior modification

Dr. Robert Moore, a New York vet--
erinarian, contends behavioral prob-,

lems with pets-are more of a pe0ple
problem than a pet problem. He says
pe0ple obtain pets without giving
thought to the commitment they must
make to provide for a dog’s or cat‘s
basic needs for social interaction.
Werking couples who leave their pets
alone for long periods lead the list of
offenders- Destructive chewing, house
soiling and constant barking result
from boredom. Moore says some own-

. ersj‘might be better off without their

pets. . .
He also advises dog owners to attend
obedience classes. Surveys have veri-

. fied graduates of obedience classes

demonstrate significantly fewer behav-
ioral problems.
Swinging doggie doors that allow

, free access to both house and a fenced-
' in yard prove useful for dogs left alone.

Moore warns owners it’s important
not to allow their pets to dominate the
family. He claims obedience training is
the most effective means in-overcom-
ing this problem. ,

A radio turned to a talk-show station
seems to distract a dog’s attention
away from destructive habits. .

O O O
Cruelty report
Five years ago, 15 crippled primate

EBekincl to animals and humane societies

survivors of experiments conducted at
the Institute for Behavioral Research
in Silver Spring, Md., were seized in a
police raid. Dr. Edward Taub, chief ex-
perimenter at IBR, was subsequently
convicted of cruelty to animals in two
trials — the first US. animal experi-
menter found guilty of mistreating ani-
mals. The Court of Appeals issued a
unanimous Opinion dismissing the char-
ges, stating cruelty laws were not ap-
plicable to researchers. Since then,
Pe0ple for the Ethical Treatment of
Animals (PETA), a national animal
rights organization, has been battling
in the civil courts for protective cus-
tody of the monkeys held by the Na-
tional Institutes of Health.

The IBR now wants the monkeys
back ~ monkeys originally acquired
with federal grant funds. But represen-
tatives of humane organizations are de-
termined the Silver Spring monkeys
will suffer no more behind closed labo-
ratory doors, and a home has been
found for all 15 animals at a primate
sanctuary outside San Antonio.

Houstonians in support of PETA‘s ef-
forts to save the monkeys are urging

 

Texas senators and representatives to i
help release the animals to the Texas '

sanctuary.

Anyone wishing to assist in these ef-
fortslshould contact Kim Bartlett at
789-5491 or 797-0876.

George Huebner is the director of
the Animal Health Management De
partment at Houston Community Col-

lege.

 




DENVER POST

By Ray Flack
Denver Post Staff Writer," ' m

The city’s bite is as bad "as its bark-f = .
' pet ownership:

Denver animal-control authorities
'weren’t kidding when they promised
stiffer enforcement of the city’s dog
leash and “pooper scooper” laws, espe- '
cially in the city’s parks. . . ‘

Pooches are being impounded and
“owners cited in- record numbers, said Dr,
Douglas McCluskie. Denver's environ»,
mental health director.

McCluskie blames the increase on the
arrival of warm weather as well as an

increase in the pet population.
. McCluskie said he had no current fig
ures, but noted that in the week of April

I

.‘i

 

April 30, 1986

L “We are trying toencourage more responsible 7‘

‘ Douglas McCluskie. environmental
' ' health director.

 

6, some 118 leash-law citations Were writ.
ten. That compares with 29 in the week of
March 16.

McCluskie said people have com-
plained that dogs chase them. defecate
near their picnic lunches or .on _ park
lawns. ' "

(advance r

service there will be

invited to bring their

H
P
'11
O
"3
E.
O
'1
B
m
3:".
O
:5
O
n!
=
84
.q
9°

eservations required). Be

entertainment.

em

Pet / owner portraits available
Kind to Animals Week is May 4-

ichael Carmody will conduct th
pets and participat

n at 2:30 pm. at the CAP office

, 11935 Katy Freeway.
e service. Visitors are

“Blessing of the Ani-
the service. After the

“So we‘re tightening enforcement in
the parks and putting employees there
when the use is heaviest,” he said. ‘

He said the law requires that all pets
be on a leash. cord or chain. “Some peo-
ple say they have voice control of their
dogs. but there is nothing in the law to

Enverputs Sharp bite in its ‘pooper ‘ scooper,’ leash laws _

cover this,” he added.
The average fine for first-time offend-.

ers is $25. McCluskie said. If a dog's

owner isn’t in sight when animal control
wardens seize it, the animal is impound-
ed. It costs $30 to free it if it is licensed,
and $50 if there is no license.

The cases are handled in Denver’s En-"

vironmental Court in the basement of th
City and County Building. '

“We are trying to encourage more re- .

sponsible " pet ownership," McCluskie
said. ’
. pound last year. So far this year. 1,744
~ dogs have been impounded.

 

 

W

22
Obe

obedience,
entrants h

inners recei

dience Training,

mals” will begi
The Rev. M

Shelter, 519 Studem

Large mutts, small mutts
nd annual Mutt Show

admissio
. ave current rabies v
For information, call 869—8227.

ve trophies and cash.
closest to the ground,

nis

ont. Sponsored b

y the SPCA and the Houston

ay at the Houston SPCA

free;

1—4 p.,m. Saturd
The Citizens for Animal Protection’s annual

Calling all mutts!
smallest, and be

registration starts at noon.
Among categories for judging are

Bless their little hearts ’

, mutts of all kinds will participate in the
accination. Proceeds benefit the SPCA.

st costume. All

 

 

More than 6.600 dogs were taken to the ,

HOUSTON POST - May 2, 1986

 




HOUSTON CHRONICLE - May 3, 1986

Guests go
ape for ball
at the zoo.

By BETTY EWING
Houston Chronicle

 

 

Ms. Llama, strutting her stuff to the Cajun
Twisters’ JoIi'e Blond, kissed all the men and
high~hatted the zebra. .

The old raccoon by the light of the laser, not
the moon, was combing his auburn hair, and
everybody shoved and pushed to get their pic-
ture taken with a fairly good-natured hairy

ape.

And did you see those pussy cats? Could
have sworn they were wearing spats.

Clay Ellison, the hair/skin czar, painted his
coat, was it not bizarre? 1 A
, Well, did you evuh? What a grand party it
was! Simplyzoopendous, like the signs said.

With the thh-hour c00peration of Mother
Nature in turning off the water spout, the Zoo
‘Friends did it again —- the most fun social
event of them all.

This is an outdoor biennial, always held
slap-dab in the middle of the Hermann Park
Zoo, and on Thursday night 1,700 people passed
through the turnstile to set a new attendance
record. Those included zoo director John Wer-
ler and wife Ingrid. He was the one being
nuzzled by the llama. And those spatty cats
were Carol and Allen Rhodes, big supporters
of the Alley Theater. Hmmm, Alley cats?

Incidentally, the aforementioned zebra
(thanks to Frankel’s costumers) was Zoo
Friends president Suzanne (Mrs. Paul) Loyd,
whose escort wore a coat that read “Husband
of the Zebra.” ’

Phaedra the Seal - she’s enceinte ya’ know
- graciously vacated her watery boudoir so
Tim Walsh, the laser-show wizard, could in-
stall his giant scaffolding there. '

The 1986 version of the zoo ball was titled
“La Fete Great Ape.” The first $200,000 of the
proceeds will go toward the multimillion dol-
"lar campaign to construct new primate dis-
plays and a new educationprogram at the zoo,
where admittance is still free.

Any additional funds over the $200,000 will
be going to the new bird garden built in the
memory of the late Dr. John D. “Jack” Staub,
member of the boards of the Houston Arbore-

' turn and the Zoological Society. The 1986 zoo .

ball was dedicated to animal/bird lover Staub,
whose widow Alice Staub sat at table No. 1.

Chairwomen Rosanna Blalock, second fro

Steve Campbell Photos / Chronicle

m left, and Stella Nicklos got 12th-hour

cooperation from Mother Nature: The rainy skies cleared just in time for “La Fete
Great Ape" at Hermann Park Zoo. Husbands Myron Blalock in, left, and Jim

Nicklos are by their sides.

There were costumes galore at this year’s

ball, more pith helmets than in a jungle movie.-_ ,

’ Co-chairwoman Stella (Mrs. James)-'Nicklos ’ .
(she wore a gorilla suit to the tasting party '

held last month at the Mac Dunwoodys’home)
was a beautiful bird in ﬂoaty green chiffon
and feathered headdress. Her co-chairwoman,
Rosanna (Mrs. Myron III) Blalock, : chose a
dress hand:painted with monkeys by Kappy
Sweet of San Antonio, and her Paine Andrews
jewelry was a confection of silvery birds and
ribbons. .

Veteran Zoo Friends worker Jane Block
came as an organ grinder, and publicist Judy
(Mrs. Marc) Herzstein wound monkey puppets
around the waist and shoulders of her ye low

ants suit. Marc’s parents, Max and Isabel

erzstein, donated Bob Fowler’s giant ele-
phant sculpture to the zoo four years ago this
week It dominates the entrance. '

And a good solid rumor indicates that the
magical monkey neon zoo sign donated by
Transco and erected at the far end of the party
boulevard eventually will be moved to the

front gate. Fabulous! Patrick Bressett of Bas-~

trop was the artist.

The staff at the Empty Vase once again
donated their magnificent decorative powers.
Tables were covered in brilliant hot-colored
cloths and centered with beautiful ﬂower ar-

rangements. This time E.V. planted a towering.

' May pole of pink and orange vinyl in the re-
- flection pond that bisects the party areas con-

nected. by bridges.

‘ .For those who missed the real McCoy there
was even a sculpture of Halley’s comet. Kudos

to Scott McCool, Bill McKenzie and Steve Ray-_

mond. , -

"Don Strange brought his international cui-
sine from San Antonio and *set it up with six
carts and 27 serving areas. The aromas waft-
ing over the crowd should be bottled like Geor-_
gio’s eau de cologne.

In addition to the Cajun music-makers,
dance rhythms also were supplied by the
Rockin’ Dapsie and Beto and the Fairlanes.

The Zoo Friends, a 75-member organization,
requires that each member work on the ball.

Former Zoo Friend Ellen Hubbard and hus-
band Ken came back from New York for it.
and so did ex-Houstonians Carolyn and“ Stuart
Zarrow of Tulsa. Okla. _ .

Local VIPs, all big zoo supporters, spotted
in the throng included John and Katsy Mecom,
Ted and Caroline Law, Margaret. and Jim Elk-
ins, the Eddy Blantons (he’s president of the
Zoological Society), Dr. and Mrs. Denton Coo-
ley, Jeannie and Bill Kilroy and Loraine
McMurrey.

 




HOUSTON POST - May 6, 1986

nImaI h0LIse—   t0s0n syl

Z00 Fnends ball
nets funds for

primate faCIlIty
and bird garden

By FRENCHY Fm
Special to The Post ‘

 

here was quite a to-do at
the zoo Thursday night.
The celebration, in . » -‘
fact, was zoo-pendous indeed
a when the Zoo Friends of Houston _‘ .
[sponsored the “La Fete Great . . ‘ ~ ‘ . . -» ~ . I ' __
”Ape” fund-raiser around the 'Her- . , Clay Ellison, wearing a hand- -painted tux jacket, treats himself to fathas
mann ParkZOOreﬂF—‘Cﬁng pond. as MalIa Brandenberger, left, Sharyn MetcaIf and mu coachairwoman

Most of the guests came ex- -
zoo-beta ntly dressed in costumes I Stella Nickles and her husband, Jim, Watch.

ranging from jungle-printed
dresses and lion-tamer khakis to
hairy monkey suits and creative
hand-painted tuxedos.

. This was deﬁnitely the event
for everyone to bring out the
funky outfits that have been .
hanging in the back of their clos-
ets. A lot of the guests, however,
simply wore their tame and tra-

. ditional, casual-to—cocktail

- clothes ‘

. . If there had been a costume

I centest (and there probably
should have been), Clay Ellison,
Suzanne Loyd, Jane Block and
Stella and Jim Nicklos would
have surely been contenders for
top place. Hair stylist Ellison
hand painted his white dinner
jacket with wild and woolly, hot-
colored 200 animals. His jacket
was such a hit, in fact, that a few
of the guests who represented
boutiques approached him about
designing jackets for their shops.
He’s considering their offers.

Zoo Friends member Jane

Block came in a vintage organ
grinders outfit, complete with a
stuffed monkey. Zoo Friend pres- . g , _ g . .
ident Lo d donned a zebra suit !~ “ ‘ g' ‘
r" a ii'ye size zebra head. Ball Few with the llama ti tat roamed around the ball are Judy Hertste ”d
C ‘ “chairwoman Stella NiCklos ' left. ball 00- -chairwoman Rosanna Biaiock, zoo director John Werler an

looked adorable in her hot—green zanne Lo d.
» bird costume with froufrou feath- . 200 Friends. president Su . y

 

 

 

 

 




ers in all the right places. She

went ape over her husband Jim’s
hairy monkey mask and hands.
11] But certainly, there was a

7 method behind the Nickloses’

_ costume madness -—— to remind

everyone that his or her $125 tick-
"~et money would benefit the new
primate facility and the Dr. John
l Staub bird garden. The event

11 1 raised $300,000 for the apes and
vbirds’ new dream houses. '

r The Zoo Ball attracted 1,700

. people, which is double to triple
the number of guests attending

' most of the other charity balls in
1 Houston this season. What a feat

for Zoo Friends, which consists of i

i}_ '75 women members.
' The large turnout wasn’t nec-

- T essarily because the zoo is mere ' ?

important to these guests than

_, {the other benefits, but “probably

it’s because we’ve had two full

1’ " years to sell the tickets since our

_ event is only held every other

7 year,” said co-cha irwoman Ro—

sanna Blalock. . '

~i- . “The other reason for our suc-
cess,” added Nickles, “is that
anyone who has ever attended

{-1 any of the 10 previous zoo balls

almost always returns since this

mingled around the reflection
pond near the zoo entrance,
checking out their friends’ cos-
tumes and sampling the cuisine
(fajitas, blackened redfish and :
tortillas) served from 25 festive -
carts scattered around the area. .
, Lee Evans, upcoming presi-
dent of Zoo Friends, and Lana
Cureton stood near the dessert
cart so they could grab refills ,
while visiting with Tricia and
Bob Chambers. By the fajita '
cart, former president of the Zoo-
logical Society Vernon Henry
and his wife, Mary Lou, Were
reminiscing with chums Susan
and Austin Young whom the Hen-
rys fixed up four years ago on
Youngs’ first date to the Zoo

’ -‘ Ball. _ _ ,.
Richard and Barbara Joseph- = . ~
, son and Susan Kaplan were a bit

startled when they turned around
and saw that an armadillo - and
its trainer —-'- were headed their
way. Josephson was tempted to
give the animal a taste of his tor-
tilla, but the trainer suggested
otherwise.

Floral designer Scott McCool
from The Empty Vase worked for
almost a year to create the fun

the outdoors.

Huge, brightly colored geo-
metric shapes of vinyl floated in
the pond, and tall matching cyl-
inders filled with tropical ﬂowers

0 spruced up the 140 dining tables
encircling the area. Tiny white

Christmas lights and colored
Japanese lanterns hung from the
trees and a huge neon “Zoo”
sign, designed by artist Patrick

‘~ Bressart, was placed in front of
the monkey cages.

But the real highlight of the
evening was the three-hour laser

, show produced by Tim Walsh of
' _ San Marcos and funded by

Transco Energy. Ball committee
chairwomen Jeanie Janke, Jean
Harper and Susie Smith staked
out a spot on the grass for an un-
blocked view of the laser magic.
Eddy Blanton, current president
of the Zoological Society, and
Isabelle and Max Herzstein (who
donated the beautiful bronze ele—

_ phant in front of the zoo) chose to

catch the show from their tables.
Judging from the way guests

_ Tzoomed toward the zoo entrance

to get their pictures taken with
some of the animal residents, it _
was obvious that almost every-

done wanted a keepsake from the-

setting that featured a high—tech :
abezoo-Iutely zoo-perb event.

effect to contrast the softness of

outdoor event is such fun.”
And fun it was, too, as guests

 

 

 

Post photos by Micheal Boddy

Dr. Dick Stasney, left. in camouflage suit, stands by as
Caroline Law adjusts husband Ted’s sequined bow tie.

 

\ »..—.__.A

 




 

HOUSTON CHRONICLE - May 1, 1986

 

Kay chDonald

Betty Tichich / Chronicle
smooches with a parrot at the Houston ZOO.

She was demonstrating animals in the Children’s Zoo exhibit .

Wednesday.

 

   

 

 
 

l’

(\f
l

 




  

   

 
   
  
   
  
    
 
 
   
  

    
 

 

 
 

   
    
   
    
  
  
   
   
  
    
     
   
  
  
 
    
   
  
 

..........._

 

  
  
   
  
  
     
  
   
 

 

MEMPHIS COWIERCIAL APPEAL - April 28, 1986

Pet. project is a ritZV

Who’s who of animalhood
turns new page for profits

 

By Mike Royko
Syndicated Columnist

 

My first dog was a little mutt
named Sparky. He had a curly
tail and liked chasing rats. His
mother was a neighbor‘s dog,
and his father was a wandering
stranger who got lucky.

When Sparky died of old age,

we dug a hole in a corner of the
l yard, put him in a crate from the

vegetable store, and used a brick
with his name painted on it as a
gravestone.

That and a faded old snapshot
in one of the family albums were
his only memorials.

But if Sparky had been born at
a later time, such as now, we
could have done so much more.

We might have placed him in
something called “The Animal
Hall of Fame Almanac,” which is
sort of a Who’s Who of the be-
loved pet world.

Yes, a company in California
—— where else? — is now publish-
ing fancy leather-bound “heir-
loom” books that will contain
the pictures and biographies of
500 beloved pets. Dogs, cats,
birds, horses, maybe even ger-
bils. .

As the company says in their

' sales literature:

“Turner-Bradshaw proudly
announces the opening of en-
rollments for the 1986 Animal
Hall of Fame Almanac.

“This Almanac is a limited edi-
tion masterpiece featuring pets
from around the world with pho-
tos and stories submitted by
their owners.

“Entrance into the Almanac is
limited to only 500 pets per edi-
tion. Each edition is printed
once a year. Every pet is fea-

tured in his or her own full page.

.,_., ,Vhl.-.~..-.. . .1. ..

“‘Think of it . . . Now you can

immortalize your loved one..En-
shrine him or her forever in a

stunning volume that will be

passed on for generations.

“What a masterpiece.

“One glance tells it. . . . The Al-
manac is much larger than your
standard library book. It looks
like a great work of art. Your pet
deserves no less. You expect no
less.

“You will notice the fine
heady smell of fine leather. The
gold embossed cover design is
magnificent. .. . Page edges are
gilded on three sides.

“ You and your pet are
members of an exclusive family.
A brotherhood of 500, world—
wide, now and forever.”

And how do you get your
pooch or cat into this leather-
bound book? It’ll cost you $500.
That’s about it.

The book was the idea of Jan
Bohusch of Los Angeles, who
works at

other publications.

He says: “We’ve done a lot of
market research and deter-
mined that there are a lot of peo-
ple in the US. and worldwide
who, well, you know, they
freeze-dry their pets, use pet ce-
meteries. People whose pets are
important in their lives.

“I came up with the idea of the
concept for printing a book

'where their pet is featured in a
full page. It’s a memorial or an
heirloom that can be passed on
for generations. It’s a cocktail ta-
ble book published once a year.
' “It gives the pet owner perma-
nent recollections. Pets last only
about 15 years. Humans last
about 70.”

The company ran some ads,

sent out “teaser” mailings, and

 

 

. 3.x

 

 

. an

Turner-Bradshaw, .
which publishes magazines and i

 

MIKE

 

the response has been impres-

sive. More. than 1,000 people
have applied.

And what kind of pet owners
are most eager to see their dogs
in living color in a leather-
bound book?

love

 

 

“Poodles—TNT~ don’t know why.
The largest response has come
from dog owners, and poodles

are the biggest.”

I’m not surprised. It doesn’t
sound like something that the

owner of a junkyard dog, or a

tavern hound, would go for.

Those who apply are asked to
write personal biographies of
their pets. which will be printed
with the pictures.

“Here’s one letter,” said Bo~
husch, “from a doctor and his
wife. They have a cat they say is
their Siamese son. It answers to
its name and it likes to hide in
the laundry hamper. In fact, it.
lives in the laundry hamper.

“And here’s one from a a wom-
an in Miami. She says they have
two extremely spoiled poodles
and they want both of them in
the Hall of Fame.

“You see, it’s like a social regis-

' ter for animals. Oh, and they’ll

get a Hall of Fame certificate.
like a college diploma. It’s
stamped, numbered and certi-
fied, and suitable for framing.”
All that for only $500?
“Yes. Or $600 if you want your

pet on the front page. With only

500 books, we can adjust the
pages to do that.”

Let‘s see —- with 500 pets at
$500 each, that comes to a
quarter of a million dollars in
revenue.

But Bohusch says each book
costs $200 to print. 80 that cuts.
the take down to $150,000. Net a

bad profit.

 

Of course, for the cost of a roll
of film and developing. you
could plaster an entire wall with
pictures of your favorite beastie.

But if Sparky were alive, I still
might spend a bundle to put him
in the book.

Especially if I could get him to
pose for a picture with his favor-
ite fireplug.

  

 




ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH - April 25, 1986

Our Cities Are GoingTo The Dogs

By John F. Kullberg ' and educational efforts aimed at eradi-
r . . . cating the cause of animal overpopula- .
, he findings Of a study published . tion — policies that encourage the
recently by the American Veteri- breeding and merchandising of animals
. nary Medical Assocration .under» - -— rather than on the unabated conse-
score the fact that New York City and quences of pet mismanagement.
other largeurban centers are faced Unfortunately, pet overpopulation
With a growmg pet overpopulation “1' will continue while we remain uncom-
sis, one that must receive more atten-

. . . . . . mitted to a cure. Pet overpopulation is
tron from Citizens and, particularly, city far from being a New York phenome-
planners.

_ non. Nationally, more than 10- million

From 1972 to 1983, says the associa- unwanted pets are being killed by city

tion, the number of cats in households pounds and, paradoxically, humane so-

increased by 104 percent (“cm 25.5 cieties every year. An additional 10 mil-

million to 52.1 million). Dogs increased lion pets annually abandoned to the pet food industry’s extraordinarily suc-

by 54 percent (from 36.1 million to 55.6 streets experience the agonies of dis- cessful marketing efforts help in part to
million). Combined. these figures repre- ease, starvation or worse, until they die. create. '

\ sent a 75 percent increase over 11 years City and state remedies to existing pet Success in overcoming the pet over-
in the dog and cat population (61.6 mil- - genocide practices are readily avail- population tragedy in New York City or
lionin 1972; 107.7 million in 1983). able. The traditional funding source for . any other major city through a fair and

l But studies also show that at the very city animal control programs is dog li- dependable funding base for animal
time mOre and more Americans are cense fees. But were New York City to shelters, spay and neuter clinics and
rely on this discriminatory source for

exceed $50. A tax on pet foods and sup-
plies would provide a mhch more equit-
able source of funding for animal shel-
ters and spay and neuter clinics.

The $5 billion-a-year American pet.
food industry, for obvious reasons, en-
courages pet breeding and pet market-
ing. A state-operated pet food and pet
sapply tax program modeled on existing
cigarette, liquor and gasoline tax legis-
lation would help state and city govern-
ments respond more fully and effective-
ly to the daily tragedies created by the
pet overpopulation problems that the

sharing their lives with dogs and cats,
fully two-thirds of all pets are eventual-
ly abandoned. Most Americans, it would
appear, do not appreciate what respon-
sible pet stewardship means. 0f the --,(-.1—”- -1 ﬂ- - -- 7‘
130,000 animals brought to ASPCA shel- J l ;l l Ml , 1 ”J J‘ {UH‘JU‘ H n
ters and hospitals in New York City last . — _ iUA Ll .. l, -._. _. ll l~ _ J
year, some 80,000 were unwanted.

New York City has never fully ad-
dressed its responsibility to remedy pet J8
overpopulation problems. As a conse- Ll
quence the American Society for the

l
, v
t

Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, the
private humane society that functions as
the city’s pet referral agency, annually
loses more than $1 million caring for

unwanted New York City pets.

The ASPCA appeals for funds nation-
ally to meet this loss. The organization
would prefer to spend more of these
nationally raised funds on legislative

MEMPHIS COMMERCIAL APPEAL - 4/29/86

 

Fearless felines taught acro-catics

| CHICAGO (AP) — The “acro-
‘cats” fly through the air with
;the greatest of ease — unless, of
1 course, they decide not to budge.
_ Four fearless felines —— who
Jump through hoops, turn som-
ersaults and even bowl with a
little coaxing —— are drawing
crowds of curious onlookers to
their weekend performances at
'a local pet store.

It all started when Bernie
' Hoffman, a former circus ring-
master who owns the Animal
Kingdom pet store, bet general

manager Steve Maciontek that
cats could be trained to perform
acrobatics.

Blackie, the only male mem-
ber of the quartet, was perform-
ing somersaults after 31/2 weeks
of hourlong training sessions
four times a day, Maciontek said.

Similar regimens taught Ca1-
lie, Catchatori and Sandy their
stuff.

The trainer’s secret? Morsels
of the acro-cats‘ favorite beef-fla-
vored cat food used as bait.

 

 

 

 

 

funding animal shelters and spay and
neuter clinic programs in each borough,
the yearly dog license fee would soon

lint um

education programs would establish a
national model for overcoming what is
now a national disgrace. Legislative ef-
forts to bring about such a model are
currently under way in California, Tex.
as and Illinois as well as in New York.

Much good has come from the efforts
of voluntary agencies throughout Amer-
ica to deal with this problem. But the
battle against cruelty, neglect and irre-
sponsibility is far from over. One need
only consider the unabated carnage of
dogs and cats and what is happening to
many other victimized species world-
wide to dispel any doubts to the
contrary. ‘

John F. K uIIberg is president of the
American Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals.

Copvright 1986 The New York Times

 




BENVER POST. April 28, 1986

 

 

9

u ,

y l990}v‘*-9she’11 have 20,000 descendants

-.;
.

Once agair’i‘it'fsf Kitten and puppy
season, and thousands of people
will be wondering what to do with
their pet's offspring. g

H aving been ira'ctive . in animal
rescue for man'y.;.years, I know
what happens totlie unwanted re.
sults of irresponsible and uncaring
pet owners. _ _‘ ' ' ' p

This year. '17 to 20 million pets

Q

will be put to. death by shelters;

Untold thousands. will die in exper-
imental labs and by “road kill."
Far too many will be allowed to

i l
I

breed and produce still more cute

7 . i

but unwanted babies. (One fertile

female cat willhave 20,000 descen»

”d

danis in four years.) ‘ _
The ultimate responsibility for

 

this horror story is ours. We must
let go of the old wives’ tales borne
of ignorance. - ' -

' Neither dogs nor cats n‘eed‘or
should be allowed one heat season
or one litter. Spaying or neutering
before sexual maturity will make
for a better pet.

Sterile pets do not automatically
become fat and lazy. Like humans,
a small proportion. will tend to
overeat, a situation the owner can
easily deal with by feeding accord—
ing to. the animal's activity level;

If you care for your pets, give

ii

them the protection and love they

deserve. You are all they'have.
BARBARA DREWS

Broomfield

 

 

 

 

 

Pi
Li
Gravois Road,

felike owls and rubber sna
Affton,

attract a lot of attent

kes atop Grasso Plaza,
ion, but t

10000
hey do

little to fri '
firm has been hi

ghten away pi

red to all

geons.
minate

the bi

A professi
rds

onal pest control

ght

geons’ Deli

Renyold Ferguson/Post-

Dispatc

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ST.

LOUI S POST-DISPATCH -

Apri

124

9

1986

 




 

BOSTON GLOBE - April 25, 1986

Research
on animals

By Judy Foreman .
Globe Staff

About 20 animal rights activists
staged a noontime rally outside Harvard
Medical School yesterday, demanding
that scientists end their use of live ani—
mals in biomedical research.

There were no arrests in Boston, but,
nationwide. 100 protesters were arrested
in various cities and hundreds more
blocked entrances to medical centers and
research. facilities as part of the annual
April 24 worldwide campaign on behalf
of laboratory animals.

Most of the arrests were in. California,
where 40 demonstrators were arrested
as they formed a human chain in front
of the School of Public Health at the Uni-
versity of California at Los Angeles. Thir-
ty others were arrested in two protests at
the University of California in San Fra n-
cisco, and 14 others at the University of
California, Davis.

Nationwide, the animal rights move-
ment, which contains a spectrum of
vieWpoints, is widely seen as having
gained strength in recent years. Some
factions want to abolish all animal re-
search while others push for humane
treatment of laboratory animals.

Last year, partly as a result of pres-
sure by these groups, Congress modified
the Animal Welfare Act and tightened
National institutes of Health guidelines
on issues such as the appropriate use of
anesthesia and reduction of pain during
experiments.

Even so. Jan Jasper of the Human
Animal Liberation Front insists that
some experiments are still “blatantly ri-
diculous. " citing one in w hich male hor—
mones were given to female canaries to
l see if they could sing like males.”

 

 

 

20 protest use of animals
in Harvard medical research

E ANIMAL RIGHTS
Continued from Page 17

in Boston, the protesters. led
by Evelyn Kimber and Gui Agha
of the Coalition to End Animal
Suffering and Exploitation, car-
ried black balloons and placards
saying. “Animal Research is Im-
moral” and “Pain is pain, no mat-
ter who suffers it.”

Agha said that animal rights

. activists have succeeded else-

where in the country in shutting
down laboratories doing head in-

?jury research that-involved

“smashing" animals’ heads.
The protesters alleged that in

' the Harvard medical area alone

125.000 laboratory animals were
killed in 1984. a charge Harvard
veterinarians and officials strong-

, ly denied.

The protesters said that the
money spent on animal research
would be better spent educating

humans in disease prevention,
' that differences among species

make animal research irrelevant
ito human disease and that little
practical good comes from animal
research.

Ronald Hunt, a veterinarian
and director of the New England
Regional Primate Center, respond-
ed that, in fact, most biomedical
research does not involve animals.
but that some research - work on
hypertension for instance - re—
quires a complete living model.
And an AIDS vaccine, he added,
could not possibly be developed
without testing it on the one ani-
mal species that is susceptible to
AIDS, chimpanzees.

Hunt observed that Harvard

animal research labs, like others ~

around the country, are regularly

. inspected by teams from the US
; Department of Agriculture (which
' administers the Animal Welfare

Act). the National Institutes of

Health and the state Department
iof Public Health which uses.
teams from the Animal Rescue-
League and the Massachusetts So—_
:ciety for the Prevention of Cruelty

{to Animals.

Although there are differences
jamong species Hunt said the Si."
milarities far outweigh them,
making animals useful and rel~
evant for human medicine Ani-
mals have been used to develop a5
polio vaccine and insulin. he not—
ed. They have also helped to create
organ transplant methodology, to:
learn about theimmune system’
and to develop cardiac pacemak-
ers, among many examples. ’

Animals that are used in some
classes at Harvard “feel no dis-
tress" because they are given mor-
phine and put to sleep, another re?
searcher said, adding that all ex-
periments are monitored by
trained instructors and doctors
, Anneliz Hannah, executive di—
rector of the Massachusetts Soci-
ety for Medical Research. cited.
“the people who will suffer" if
medical research on animals does
not go forward.

That sentiment was echoed by
the national Foundation for Bio—_
medical Research, which on
Wednesday sponsored a press con—
ference in Washington at which
advocates for those with diabetes,
arthritis, kidney disorders. epilep«
sy and a variety of other illnesses
spoke in favor of using animals in
medical research.

A national opinion poll com-
missioned by the foundation
shows that 77 percent of the
American public favors the use of
animals in medical research. said
spokeswoman Frankie L. Trull. in
a telephone interview.

Dr. Neal Barnard, a spokes-
man for the Washington-based:
Physicians Committee for Respon»
sible Medicine, noted, however,
that there are signs some medical
schools and researchers are re-'
sponding to some of the activists’
demands. A number of medical
schools do not use ”dog labs," he;
said, quoting a survey from the?
Association of American Medical;
Colleges. ?

“My group," he said in a tele—
phone interview. “feels you can
teach physiology without ani-
,mals."

 

 




SAN FRANCISCO EXAMINER - April 27, 1986

mongrels,” he said. “It is all a part of Polish

BYM/CHAEL T.) KAUFMAN . snobbism and ostentation. We can hardlv feed
ourselves, so what do we do? We take our big,
Warsaw registered, pedigreed dogs for a walk.”

N POLAND, a country Of 37 million Grzegorz Bachara, the director of the Animal
people, where meat is rationed and Pmtecm“ 50mm IS trying to obtain both a

. . reduction in the dog taxes and a more uniform
apartments scarce, there are said to local schedule of charges.

be 7 million or 8 million dogs, Like Wahl, Bachara said it is doubtful thaf

. .. .. an? overnme t s .. .
Poles are evrdently willing to make sacrifices to 3 gt (1 n ha de.‘ oted 5" many r esoursfé
- . d Dc 3 as oes the Polish government. Despite
for their dogs. People who line up for meat an the d f d . ‘ ‘
- - - , . 0g 00 ration cards and other suhSldles he
live in close quarters are seen walking Afghans says he regards the new taxes . .
or lumbering St. Bernards as well as more com. ‘ ' ‘ ' - as mngUldE’d-
pact breeds. In every neighborhood, there are He said there has already been a rise in stray 5
men and women who keep three, four and even roaming for scraps. The animal shelter in War:
more dogs. saw is full, and adoptions have drOpped. '

Truck drivers will stop on highways to feed e..- m; n-5,:
biscuits to strays. A film director said recently
that the love of dogs is a tradition carried over
from the days when the often impoverished rural
aristocracy set standards of behavior.

 

 

 

“A man was judged by the way he treated his
horse, his dogs and his wife, often in that order,”
said the director, Wojciech Marczewski.

But now the relationship between people and
dogsis being threatened by higher local dog
taxes that in some communities are costing dog
owners the equivalent of a surgeon’s monthly

" salary.

“We all know there are too many dogs,” said

u

while with larger animals other tech-
niques are used such as stretching the
“You have to be precise. It’s not like

mounting a deer head.” Saatzer said.
Pat Supples of Netcong, N.J., said she
always wanted to preserve her German
shepherd, Princess, and was thrilled by
“Everything about Princess was the
same,“ Supples said. “Our other dog
started crying when we brought (Prin-
The cost varies depending on the size
and posture desired, Saatzer said. A

With animals under 50 pounds, the
the results of freeze-drying.

entire body stays intact, Saatzer said,
animal's skin over a plastic foam man-

nequin.
large German shepherd in an attack

cess) back because she remembered
small house cat in a sitting position
would run about $450, he said. while a
position would cost around $2,000.

one has lived with, and it has to be
her.”

“You‘re freeze-drying a pet that some-
absolutely perfect.”

Bozina Wahl, a painter who shares her attic
apartment with four dogs and five cats. “But
raising taxes so steeply will not reduce the num-
ber of dogs, it will just increase the number of
'strays, cause misery for the animals, bring suffer-
ing to their owners. It is irrational and counter-
productive.”

Wahl owns an art gallery and is one of three
honorary chairmen 0f WarsawTS chapter of the
Animal Protection Society, which seeks a roll-
back in the taxes that went into effect this year.

One aspect of the law that she says she re-
gards as ridiculous is that the local rates vary,
ranging from a token payment of $2 to $100 or

“He tried it and it

LE , 7//<?/ 862

c
Preserv-A-Pet can freeze-dry remains of Fido

-drying machine he wanted.
“Just off the tap of my head I sug-

gested he advertise doing pets.”

Saatzer said.

worked.”
Pet owners ship their deceased pets

Saatzer. who also owns a company
that manufactures freeze-drying equip-
ment. said the idea came to him a cou-
to the company frozen. They also send
look, Saatzer said. The animal is then
thawed and shaped into position.

Once the animal’s body is shaped it is
freeze-dried — placed in a vaccuum
chamber at a temperature of 5 degrees
below zero. The process extracts all
water from the body without altering
its size or shape, so that decomposition
is halted. The animal’s remains thus
will not shrink and will have no odor.

photographs so the company can get an
idea of how the owner wants the pet to

ture of the hair is the same.”

i

said. “The color, the size, even the tex-
ple of years ago when a taxidermist
said he wasn‘t sure he could afford a

freeze

more. The result, she says, is that some people a?»
registering their pets with friends and relatives
in low-tax areas.

Moreover, some places have reportedly re-
duced or waived the taxes on purebreds while
imposing them on mongrels.

‘O
v

Q.

(AP) —- Fido or

sitivelv.

“This is a case of racist Nuremberg laws fer
dogs,” said Michal Nowak, a printer, who has‘i‘a
German shepherd and two mongrels.

“You know, of course, that members of the;
Kennel Club were exempt from paying the old
insignificant tax, and they can get. ration cards
for their dogs that are not available to owners of

U

o

HOUSTOU CHM/w

Saatzer said that though some peOple

find the idea unattractive. others “are
“We’ve done everything from rabbits

“The natural thing for a human being
to do is to hang on to that animal, to
to turtles. dogs. cats. snakes and ger-
bils." said Saatzer. He has even freeze-
dried a lion.

Freeze-drying gives the animal a far
more realistic appearance than tradi-
tional taxidermy. he said.

“Everything remains intact." Saatzer

NISSWA. Minn.
Fluffy can he by the hearth forever

thanks to the wonders of freeze-drying,
says a man whose company offers pet

owners a way to preserve the remains
of their four-legged loved ones in life-

like fashion.
want to keep it." said Roger Saatzer,

president of Preserv-A-Pet. “The next
very open-minded. and it has been
po

best thing to bringing it back to life is
taken verv. verv

to have it freeze~dried.

 




 

 

THE BOSTON GLOBE WEDNESDAY APRIL 30 1986 27

 

Alert is on f or Whale , entangled in fishing net

Danger is extreme because humpback may be unable to eat, says museum spokesman.

By Andrew L. Andrews
Globe Staff

An alert has been issued along
the East Coast for a humpback
whale that caught itself in a fish—
erman s gill net off the Massachu-
setts coast earlier this month and
has not been seen since.

Mason T. Weinr,ich director of

the Gloucester Fishermen‘s Muse-’

um s Cetacean Research Unit.
said the‘whale is in extreme dan—
ger because the gill net may be
preventing the animal from feed~

ing, and towing the large portion}

of the net may have exhausted the
animal's ability to survive.
A third danger is the possibil-

; ity that the net may become en-

tangled in other fishermen s nets
or get snagged on rocks and drag
the whale to its death

, Weinrich and his team first

. spotted the whale April 14 when

they came across a school of 40
humpbacks 15 miles off Glouces—
ter.

And on the next day Wein-
rich's sgroup saw the whale again

" this time with a school of 30

i
i

humpbacks They saw it surface
and start thrashing.

Photos were then taken of the
monofilament net emerging from
both sides of the whale’s mouth
like a horse bridle. The net is
wrapped around the whale‘s body
twice and part of the net trails be-
hind.

Weinrich said the gill net.__

m

which has a 3 ’2— inch mesh is
wrapped around one or two of the
animal's ﬂippers which help the
whale navigate.

The researchers aboard the Sil-
ver I stayed with the whale for

about 90 minutes in hopes of get—-

ting close to it and untangling the
net. Darkness forced the group to
return to shore.

Weinrich theorizes the whale
was feeding a few feet off the bot-
tom when it became entangled in
the net.

The gill net. is constructed like .

a chain~link fence. is about a
quarter of a. mile long and is per—
pendicular to the bottom of the
ocean with lines from both ends
attached to buoys on the surface.
It is between 6 and 8 feet high and
usually traps ground- feeding fish
such as cod flounder and had-
dock.

Weinrich said he enlisted the
aid of the Center for Coastal Stud-
ies in Prbvincetown, another re-
search group. to alert them of the

whale‘s predicament. He also noti- '

fled the US Coast Guard and the
Boston Aquarium. Other research—
ers and commercial fishermen
have been notified. And with the
whale-watching season. ”now un-
der way. the public is also being
asked to keep an eye out for the
helpless animal.

Anyone having any informa~
tion can notify any of the agencies
or call Weinrich at 283-1940.

 

 

The whale is about 30 feet long
and weighs between 10 and 15
tons. Weinrich said he believes
this whale is on its migratory
route and not one of the whales
that stays in these waters.

Weinrich said distinctive
markings on the whale‘s tail and
dorsal fin will enable researchers
to make positive identification
should it be found or spotted.

The humpback is an endan-
gered species not only in US wa-
ters but internationally, We‘inrich

1 Tm: QUIGMANS

said. He estimated the world popu-
lation of the humpback at about
10.000, and of this number. 600 of
them are found off the New Eng.
land coast.

The owner of the of the gill net
has not been identified yet. Wein~
rich said. but there are distinctive
markings on the ﬂags attached to
the buoys that will help Weinrich
locate the owner. .

Yesterday the Gloucester re-
searchers spent the day looking
for the whale. .

 

 

\A

 

 

”ifhvir‘t’ést

  
  

 

 

 

 

 

"What' 5 my wife doing in the woods! Hey! She s
i a fur-bearing creature! We can shoot her!"

 




LOS ANGELES TIMES - April 28, 1986

For Animal Control

Pet Problems
Grow; User
Tax Suggested

By PATT MORRISON.
Times Staff Wnter

On trash pickup days in some
parts of Los Angeles, neighborhood
dogs are sometimes turned loose to
forage so they can get enough to

at. _
e At local animal shelters, puppies

and kittens are brought m, for
adoption—or eventual destruc-
tion—~by people who say they
wanted their children to, experience
“the miracle of birth, but non
cannot find homes for the small
3.
crgn‘erecounty animal control
worker says grimly that some-
times, he would like to show those
people the chamber where thou-
sands of animals are killed each
year, and tell them, “Now you can
experience the miracle of death. 7
Despite the recent good news
that pets can be good for one 5
blood pressure and that more
Americans than ever before are
living with pets, it is also true that
more pets to care for mean more
' al roblems.

angigwp animal control programs

_-—.—-—~ -.

' ' ressed toward the bottom of civic budgets
gitlggxlignierns for other voiceless constituenmes
such as latchkey children and homeless people, andby
the weight of Gramm-Rudman and revenue-sharing
cuts, are beginning to think seriously about an old idea
with a new application: taxing pet products to pay for

of animal care. . _
tI’litmiéﬁgasically a user tax, and it already eXists in
various forms, like gasoline tax money channeled back
into highway maintenance, ortthfh“Lifehne telephone

idize hone service 0 epoo.

mggse‘ngI'OdUCES tax—perhaps a 1% surcharge (orlig
cent on every dollar spent on pet products)-—cou
work the same way, financing low-cost spay and
neuter clinics, inoculation programs and pet owner
education projects that would help reduce the pet
population and keep them healthy, animal regulation

officials say.

Such a plan is under study in at least four states: .

California, New York, Illinois and Texas.

Waiting for Moment

' ro osed here a decade ago as a statewide
suighvazi‘sgférztnppert) food and accessories. City officials
estimated that more than $5 million is spent locallﬁ
each year on pet products, and the surcharge cou
provide Los Angeles with $520,000 annually. 't'

The proposal died, largely because of OppOSl ion

from the pet food industry, but
animal regulation officials feel that
it would receive a more favorable
reception now. '

“The precedent has been set out
there [with the acceptance of user
taxes],” said Robert 1. Rush, head
of the city’s Department of Animal
Regulation. “We’ve been waiting
for a time in which we could come
back to the forefront. I think the
time is just about here for some-
thing like this."

An estimated $5 billion is spent

3 annually in this country on pet

food, and millions more on a myriad

, of pet care products, from leashes
and collars to fish tanks and bird
cages to accessories such as brush-
es, toys and feeding bowls.

A special tax on those products is
“the only, only funding possible to
adequately respond to the animal
control problem, one that would
not be subject to the exigencies of
local government—the human
needs precluding the animal needs
every year,” said John F. Kullberg,
president of the American Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals in New York City. “It’s an
idea whose time has come.”

Given the current pay-your-
way, privatizing mood in the coun-
try, Rush said, the tax revenue
could help make his department

- self-supporting, like Los Angeles’
airport, harbor or building and safety divisions. It
would keep licensing fees from being “prohibitive” and
“free up some general fund money for other uses,” as
well as creating a more equitable system of paying for
pet services, he said.

Hit by PropoSition 13

Financial constraints on his department have in-
creased since the measure was proposed almost 10
years ago, Bush said. “When Proposition 13 struck, we
were hit pretty hard,” he said, and when his
department lost federal funds, 65 animal control
officers were cut. Now 52 remain to patrol the city

. year-round,around-the-clock.

As it stands, 46% of the animal regulation depart-
ment’s $5—million-plus budget comes from license
fees—dog licenses. There are 180,000 licensed dogs in
Los Angeles, and perhaps another 70,000 unlicensed.

By contrast, there are about 300,000 cats in the city,
and an unknown number of pet birds, and none of. them
is licensed. Since dogs and cats in particular use city
services equally, cat owners would, via the tax, begin
to share more of the burden as well as the benefit,
Rush reasoned.

Robert Wilbur, a spokesman for the Pet Food
Institute, said his organization opposes any such tax in
part because “to make pet ownership more expensive
for pet owners would be a step backward,” especially
for the elderly and poor, who might have to give up

 




their pets if the costs of feeding them go up. .

Wilbur argues that it is unfair to tax all pet owners to
pay for the problems created by a few. “The stated
purpose of these taxes is usually to fund animal control

services, the necessity of which comes from improper 1 ’_
pet ownership, the failure of some few pet owners to

take care of pets properly,” he said.

“The tax is obviously going to fall on all pet owners; j
most of whom are responsible, most of whom care for .
their pets responsibly, so you’re going to be taxing the ’

responsible to pay for the irresponsible.” .

(A survey by the Los Angeles Times’ marketing,‘
research department showed that of households in Los.

Angeles and Orange counties that house a dog and/ or a
cat, nearly half of those questioned had an income

above $35,000, and another 19% had incomes above ,

$25,000. Sixty percent of pet owners surveyed had at.

least some college education). . .

Scoffs at Argument .

The ASPCA’s Kullberg said he often hears that
argument, and he scoffs at it. “Some members of the
citizenry call it a terrible idea: ‘How can you put such a
burden on those of us caring for animals?’ It’s such a
shortsighted comment. . . . We’re not talking about

doubling the price of dog food or cat food. . . . It’s _
ludicrous.” . _

Dr. Dan Palmer, head of veterinary services in
Chicago, where the proposal is also being considered,
' agrees. Such a tax “would be one of

the few taxes in the country taxing '

the people who are responsible for
the problem you’re doing the work

for,” Palmer said. ’1'

“A lot of people are talking about
not wanting to pay taxes for

schools because they don’t have ,
any kids; if you’re taxing pet
owners for pet products, the people ,

who are not pet owners have no
complaint.” ;

Palmer thinks most pet owner
would not balk at the tax. “I’m sure
everybody’s against a tax of any

kind, but I know I don’t mind, as a,
dog owner, doing anything that ,

benefits my dog, within reason. A
one-cent increase on 'a can of dog

food is not what you call exorbitant.

and if it’s going to give my dog
better protection and a better life
style in this world, I’d be perfectly
content to do that.”

Animal regulation officials say
that statistics bear out their claim
that animal health and education
programs are badly needed. Los
Angeles alone destroys about
50,000 animals each year, of which
one-third are saleable and place-
able. Nationwide, Kullberg estimao
ted, the pet population explosion
means that 10 million animals are
destroyed annually, another 10
million abandoned.

,. Los Angeles wrestles with a
special problem related to animal care: endemic rabies
and plague. It “is kind of a neat place to live-you can
go out and see wild animals any day of the week,” Rush
said. But those animals—raccoons, opossums, falcons
and hawks, squirrels, skunks, wild deer—can all
transmit diseases to each other and to “domestic
animals, which is why free or low-cost inoculation

programs are crucial, he said, to protect people and

pets.

Across America, it is estimated that one person in
250 is bitten by an animal each year, the preponder-~
ance of them children, making the health of animals a

public concern.

‘Biggest Selling Item’

Officials optimistically hope that such a tax would
not be passed along to consumers in the form of higher
prices, since pet food is such a big seller and has a high
profit margin, Rush said. “In some food stores it’sthe.
biggest selling item. . . . It’s in the prime ViSlbIllty.‘
spot—right at the door as you walk in.” 4 - -

And Kullberg speaks out for this effort with an
argument akin to “pet rights.”

“Pets are the last of the slave trade. We speak of
ourselves as masters, owners. They’re commodities we
can get when we want them, and throw them away
when we don’t. . . . We have to legislate disincentives
for people to have pets. It is a luxury, a privilege, not a
right. We make it too easy in this country.”

 

> ',r ‘. . j
~ . ‘ x $51“;
.. - .. (n, . ‘
r. x

\

LARRY DAVIS / Los Angeles 'Iimes
Tina Estrada with abandoned
dogs at the Ann Street Shelter
In downtown Los Angeles.

 




 

MEMPHIS COMMERCIAL APPEAL - April 26,

Ailing pony is riding
road to recuperation

 

By Joey Hall
Staff Reporter

 

Annie’s not an orphan, any
more.

Annie, a Shetland pony found
abandoned near Somerville,
Tenn, was adopted by Steve Hu-
gel and his children. '

Hugel’s son Mark, 11, discov-
ered the pony when staying at a
friend’s house near Somerville
about a month ago. At the insis-
tence of Mark and his 10-year-old
sister, Stephanie, Hugel con-
vinced the pony’s owner to allow
him to have the nearly starved,
ragged animal.

“It was neglected, just roam-
ing in the wild out there,” Hugel
said. “The previous owners just
didn’t take care of her. I was
really worried about her.”

The 42-year-old Hugel lives
with his children in a brick
house in back of a house he is
taking care of at 2160 South Park-
way East. The owner died last
year and the house is for sale.

Hugel said he realizes the
house could be sold any time.
“We have no guarantee. I’ll just
give it all I’ve got. If that situa-
tion occurs, you just find out
when you get there.”

Steve Hugel brushes the pony he’s caring for.

45

But for the time being, Annie
has a stable and is groomed, wa-
tered and fed as much as she
needs. Hugel has quickly nursed
the pony into better health and
is digging a small pond in the
back yard “so Annie can stay
cool this summer.”

“She looks a lot better than she
did. I think we’ll get her a sad—
dle, a bridle and a big, bonnet.”

Despite living in a high den-
sity. neighborhood, Hugel has
had almost no problem with
neighbor’s complaints. ,

But an anonymous caller
phoned the Memphis Humane
Society about a “starving horse”
at Hugel’s address.

Humane Society investigator
Jean Sullivan checked out the
complaint, but found Annie to
be an improved pony. “Her
hooves were in really bad shape,
but she had been administered
all her shots.” A veterinarian
will work on Annie’s hooves
next week.

Ms. Sullivan said a city ordi-
nance prohibits large animals
such as Annie from living with-
in 1,000 feet of a residence. How-
ever, she said, the law is en-
forced only if neighbors com-

 

B Ddovi Smart

 

 

 




 

   
     

 

 

 

, . , i
at. T) a; ,
MEMPHIS COMMERCIAL APPEAL - 4/28/86 (A $3 -..,u,..,, _
” e a. mo“ Jau y , ”"1“; 3‘31” gutsn
" - "‘3 m 1151!] Do ~ ”MW USHUUJCI c - ’
By Path Patterson dun-t pp- “U £11103 3,” lllq ‘uﬁvzitlfloN
’ VI . Q, tau .8” GIQBDB’QJ Kitsrza . igﬁﬁoq
F1 ters e, o
g 4 JauA‘O 800 B S I Alllﬂllzn 9‘19359 O
“I A E MOW M91 Elmo 1
o 0 ~ Id
‘43 ""
. U ' Q) .0: wmwm 't{l.bﬁ
ecoun I‘V“ <§§2§5§ ﬁgggggwm %g-
> _ O 3., H “C3 U) ad
‘ ' -' In tar-Eases ﬁr Qgcao 2239-5
' ' c5 ..... "" «O U? (D' H G) c: '23 "1}?
Doomed dogs 3 a». asggug rawscy gag
'Q 0 33139938 Ewaogrvé” “911.9.
“chom ‘HIUO-C-‘o‘vmt‘ o:
needahome ~ e magmas: carom: «32..
“(CO mao‘g‘aaa Egaoﬁcs“lxmg
7. kg“ WEBWQ)? Em~88>§ggﬁo
. <5: (ugh-gm resigned 3. LE“
ByPattiPatterson .t: E’E‘EQHN z, pmoago _3“
J'onesboro,Ark.,Bureau E 5 ﬁEgmn'Z-ESzSBEBEB'Eﬁ EH?)
A‘COSQOOGOE‘ C30 m 0 ‘1)
. . BHSFDD-«UEH Gotham . 0.5
JONESBORO, Ark.—F1vep1t - 2 0 gram. ~ 3mg Hggfmmgh 93>ng
' . ' . . :;;;E;3:.:-. t 00 m “U (D Q) 0 O 00 EU 3;: q) (‘3 O
bulldogs in Arkansas have one , \\ c j g E g a 53 I: [g .9 >-. >. 7;, 5 n n no 1: .0
last chance to live. ‘ i ' ' , *‘ *" -
Seized, after an illegal dog _ ” “ ‘”
fight last month, the dogs are 1-
considered contraband and are C
, subject to destruction. Circuit (5
;' Judge David Burnett signed a
I death order Friday, but he left
one option for the dogs: If new 3’ . ”—

.5 .- .x .2

owners can be found for the

dogs soon, they will not be put to
sleep. "

Jonesboro kennel owner
Elaine Waltrip doesn’t want any
of the dogs to die. She has kept
them since Poinsett County
sheriff’s deputies seized them in
a March 1 raid.

Ten men, including-the dogs’
owners, were arrested on
charges of dog fighting and
cruelty to animals. Three others

face drug charges. A trial is.

scheduled for May 29 in Blythe-
ville. -

Shortly after the raid, Judge
Burnett ruled the owners c‘ould
, not regain possession of their
. dogs unless they posted $50,000
' bonds. In a later hearing, Judge
; Burnett ruled that investigators
.- had enough evidence to show

Elaine Waltrip

the dogs were involved in an il-
legal activity. He said they
would be put to death if the own-
ers did not pay boarding costs of
$5 a day, or about $150 a month
per dog.

Only one owner has paid the
money. His dog, a female, would
have been spared anyway be-
cause she gave birth to four pup-
pies Easter Sunday.

The other five dogs are kept

. side-by-side in separate metal

pens. Like convicts on death
row, the dogs wait for someone
to decide their fates.

The difference is the dogs
haven’t committed any crimes,
said Mrs. Waldrip. In fact, she

holds one of live endangered pit bulldogs.

After several weeks of care,
the dogs will lick Mrs. Waldrip’s
hand instead of snarling. One
dog still cowers behind a dog

house in his pen, but the others

are are friendly toward people.

The dogs are not dangerous,
but they will need extra pa-
tience and care to overcome
their past abuse, Mrs. Waldrip
said. Anyone interested in adopt-

ing one of the dogs should call

Mrs. Waldrip at 501-935-2073.

Owners will be required to
Sign a document pledging the
dogs‘will be kept for pets, not
used as fighting dogs, Mrs. Wal-
drip said. They also will need a
reference letter from a law of-
ficer, she said.

lam

Valiente was bitten from his
head to his thighs, said Coffin. Va-

0
“He came in without her being at

the door,” said Herny Maldonado, a
neighbor who said he talked to

Ramos about the attack.
Ramos said she grabbed a metal

lawn chair and hit the 5-year-old

family pet to try to halt the attack.
The dog then ran back into the

“He looks real mean, that dog,”

liente’s left ear was badly mangled
and his hip was fractured.

No charges have been filed.
said neighbor Eddy Godoy.

Hialeah Hospital.

 

t bull mauls elderly M

TAMPA TRIBUNE - May 5, 1986

added, they are the victims.

 

 

 

Valiente was walking in the door
when the spotted pit bull charged house and Valiente was rushed to

Miguel Valiente was attacked
when he went to visit Mercedes
Ramos at her home. The two have
been friends for at least 20 years
him, knocking him back through the
front door, across the front porch

HIALEAH (UPI) — An 85-year-
when they lived in Havana.

i
old man was in serious condition

Sunday after his friend’s pit bull ter-
rier hit him from his head to his

hips, Hialeah police said.
and down two steps into the yard, Lt.

Lowell Coffin said.

‘ P

L____________________“__,_W




’

The practice has gone unchallenged since Greek
sponge divers first settled here almost a century ago.
This year, however, the Easter weekend lamb slaugh-
ter is under attack.

“It’s a tradition that dates back from Moses and
the Old Testament," explains the Rev. Tryfon
Theophilopoulos, pastor at St. Nicholas Greek Ortho-
dox Cathedral.

“It is a customary cultural tradition, but it’s also
cruel and inhumane,” says Ben Noreikis, the humane
officer in charge of northern Pinellas County for the
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

See SLAUGHTER, Page 43

 

 

 

 

 

reek tradition '
of slaughtering
lambs attacked

 

Greek-Americans long have
slain lambs for religious feasting
but some say it is cruel.

By ED DEITZ
Tribune Staff Writer

 

 

 

TARPON SPRINGS -— In back yards and side lots " "’9‘ - i- s. .
throughout this Greek—American fishing village, ‘ T'lbune PhOlOS by BOB WESTENHOUSE
lambs are being hoisted by their hind legs onto tree As Evelyn Patellis, above, holds a lamb that
limbs. she treats as a pet, her grandfather

Their throats are being slit and they’re bleeding Christopher Lemonidis, explains the ’G k
to death. Soon they’ll be cleaned and cooked, and on custom of slaughtering lambs Behind th ree.
Sunday they'll be consumed. the lamb they plan to kill fdr th ' S em ls

It’s Easter weekend for those of the Greek Ortho— feast. Pinellas humane off’ 6" “."S’ay
dox faith, and the traditional lamb slaughter is under : right, hOldS a lamb found £2312:an OfElk;S,

nce o a

wa . I
y Tarpon Springs home. The Iamb’s legs were
swollen from the tight rope, Noreikis said.

 




 

 

' xv:a ,

" _ I with; photoiby aoa We‘srsnnouse
Plneiiae humane officer Ben Noreikis, right, helps Pete Loukataris, visiting relatives at 402 Hope St.

‘&

 

In Tarpon Springs, loosen the ropes tied to the legs of the-lambs awaiting slaughter on Saturday.

 

Slaughter

Noriekis wants the practice to
_ stop. He says the Pinellas SPCA can't
send enough people here to write
cruelty citations for each slaughter
"but I’m hoping that enough people
will file complaints about it and then
I can take those to the (Ptnellas-
Pasco) State Attorney’s Office and
get some charges filed." ‘

Some here say they're convinced
that Noreikis is, as one old man put
it. “a “lurk in disguise," or an enemy
of the Greek people.

Noreikis claims Lithuanian de-
scent, but says nationality is irrele-
vent

“What’s at stake here is the law,"
he said. ”This slaughtering of lambs
is illegal."

He cites the state law on humane
slaughter of livestock as his basis for
making an issue of the practice.

That law requires animals to be
rendered “insensible to pain," or to
be made unconscious, prior to death.

The only exception. the law
states, is for any ”method in accord-
ance with ritual requirements of any
religious faith." 7 '

Father Tryfon concedes the
lamb slaughter is not a ritual that is
sanctioned formally or officially by
the church.

“It is something individuals,

families, do on their own," he says.
"But they do it because their fathers
did it before them. and their fathers‘
fathers. it is a deeply symbolic act.”
What it represents, he says. is an

. act "based in the words of Moses

who ordered the people of Israel to
slaughter sheep and Splatter the
blood on the entrances to their
homes to protect their first-born
sons from the wrath of God.

"This man (Noreikis) is making
a big deal over nothing.“ ’I‘ryfon
says. “The act is not of the church it-
self, but he is interfering with our
right to religious freedom.”

"I’m not saying l’m opposed to
the slaughter of lambs,” Noreikis re-
sponds. “And I'm not trying to inter»
fere with their religion. All I’m say-
ing is. there are more humane ap»
proaches to it. A preperly platted
bullet in the sheep. maybe, or sever-
ing the spinal cord at the base of the
skull. Don’t bleed a fully conscious
animal like that."

A Tarpon Springs woman who is
not of Greek descent but married
into a Greek Orthodox family says
she telephoned Noreikis to complain
about the slaughter.

“Please don't publish my name.”
the woman asked. “because it would
kill my father-in-law’s business, but i
got concerned because I was with

my two children downtown and we

saw this man with a lamb in his
arms and it had all four of its legs

tied together and it was screaming

and really upset and it upset me and
mv children.

"These animals are conscious
when they're killed and the crying
and screeching. sounds they make
are awful. I understand the religious
basis of it. but times have. changed
and thisshnuid stop,"

John Kit-maria, owner of Angel's
Market here, says he has sold about
150 live lambs this Week “to people
who aren‘t doing anything wrong.
They've done it that way for as long.
as they can remember."

“Lamb is the traditional Greek
food,” offers resident Mary Cieorgeo.
“and this is centuries of tradition
we‘re talking about.”

Anna Loukataris says her
memory reaches back almost as
long as the existence of Tarpon

Springs and she can't recall the

lamb slaughter ever coming under
criticism.

“That’s because this is the first
year l’ve been the humane officer
for northern Pinellas.“ Noreikis
shoots back.

Kionarls says he thinks Noreikls
”ought to mind his own business."

Tryfon believes Noreikis “ought
to go after the hunters who wound
an animal then chase it through the
woods or leave it there to die. That is
truly cruel and inhumane.”

Noreikls concedes he “might not
win the battle this year, but Tryfon
is going to let me speak to his parish-
ioners and talk to them about other
methods, such as rendering the ani-
mal unconscious before killing it.
Maybe next year we’ll see some pro-
grass}?

 

 




THIS SORT OF TELLS IT LIKE IT REALLY IS - PEOPLE ENJOY KILLING ANIMALS, WHILE THEY
TRY TO MAKE THE GENERAL PUBLIC BELIEVE IF THEY DIDN'T KILL THE ANIMALS THEY WOULD
STARVE TO DEATH.

New hunting frontier?

Rural expert sees Wildlife as cash crop for farms

CHICAGO TRIBUNE
May 4, 1986

 

Chicago Tribune
MT. STERLING, Ill—Some guys have all the
luck. They’ll slide off the farm wagon and land in
. well, a pile of marshmallows.

Such is the case of Donald Norton, hunter and
raconteur. As former marketing director for the state
agriculture department and now director of the
governor’s task force on the -future of rural Illinois,
he has seen the drastic changes in our farm
economy and has been one of the enlightened
leaders trumpeting the call to diversify.

Get out of the abyss of row-cropping, he thunders
to anyone in coveralls who’ll listen. Put in grains
and cattle. Do different, innovative things. And try
to save the precious soil. Plant trees. Restore buffer
zones. Cover erodable ground.

If this also happens to encourage wildlife, all to
the better.

Norton, in fact, visualizes wildlife as more or less
another cash crop. He sees hard-pressed farmers

opening their lands for fees to city hunters with no

other places to 0. With millions of urbanites in a
state lrke ours, ee hunting seems a reasonable an-
swer to future hunting needs.

Last year, Norton decided to put his money where
his mouth is. He and 3 Springﬁeld partner struck a
deal with a Brown County rancher to lease almost
four square miles of mortgage-threatened rolling
woods and pastureland. They would establish the
largest shooting preserve in Illinois and along the
way save a pnstine chunk of huntable land.

They would charge premium membership prices
for legitimate deer, turkey and upland hunting. They
would offer airport pick-ups and rudimentary, but
acceptable, clubhouse amenities.

Most important, they would offer game in truly
wild settings—at least 60 coveys of wild quail,
countless rabbits, herds of deer, plus stocked
pheasant, quail and chukar in certain far-ﬂung re-
lease areas.

I hunted there a year ago, and it was wonderﬁrl.
We chased the quail for miles along thick ravines
and splendid ridges with breathtaking views. Brown
County is not called our Little Ozarks without
reason.

This spring, Norton thought he was ready to go.
He advertised regionally and mailed out circulars.
He lined up guides and dogs. He named his opera-
tion Western Illinois Hunting Unlimited and the in-
quiries began rolling in.

That’s when he slid off the applecart. The rancher
had second , thoughts and began backing out.

“It was just mortifying,” Norton confessed.

He had sold a farm and committed all of his
resources to a project that suddenly had no home.

About then, Norton encountered Edward Tucker,
a local lawyer and head of a limited partnership that
controls 4,028 acres in Brown and adjoining Adams
Counties. Together, they crafted a plan to lease
seven properties to Norton’s club—slightly more
than six miles of hilly, huntable farms and woodland
that virtually surround Siloam Springs State Park.

 

On the outdoors

 

“I can’t believe our good fortune,” Norton said on
an inspection tour the other day. In three hours of
riding in jouncing pick—ups, we hadn’t touched a
third of the properties. i

“There are some comers that even I haven’t seen
a}: yet,” he conﬁded. “I can only imaginethe habitat
t ere.”

So now he ﬁnally is on his way. The lease was
signed last Tuesday and Illinois soon will have a
hunting club of six square miles.

This one includes a farmhouse for accommoda-
tions, plus vehicles, equipment, tools and a 400-foot
chicken house that soon will hear the peeps of game
birds. '

“The work has only begun,” Norton said, at-.
tacking a plateful of ham sandwiches and chili.

The work includes restoring pastures to sown and
native grasses, reorganizing plantings to include
grains and sunﬂowers that feed and nurture birds
and regrowing fence lines where cattle have cropped
the grass.

“We’ll let several necks and swales grow up and
we’ll no—till our cropland,” Norton said. “Why, this
place is so big they’ve already let land revert to
nature out of sheer incapability to get to it. When
you think of it, that’s incredible.” ‘

Norton plans to charge $200—$350 for individual
and family memberships and $1,000 for corporate
memberships entitled to bring unlimited guests.
Extra fees will be charged for deer and turkey
seasons, both bow and shotgun, and raised birds will
be released to order.

“I’m tryin to prove a point here,” Norton said
amid a sheaf8 of maps. “That there are other ways to
make the farm mortgage than by raising crops on
erosive ground. It’s a system of farming that we’ve
gotten away from in the last 15 years because of
attractive grain prices.”

He bit into his sandwich and ruminated. “For
hunting and habitat, this has got to be the way. Or
one way. Another” is to get the government to rent it
all.” .

Fat chance, that. It’s clearly time to see if wildlife
can be made to .pay.

[For a list. of public and private game preserves,
Write the Illinois Department of Conservation at
N. Grand Avenue West, Springﬁeld, 11]., 62 706, .or
call Terry Musser, state game preserve biologist,
217-782—6424. The number for Western lllrnors
Hunting Unlimited is 217-525—9494.]

 

 




 

 

TAMPA TRIBUNE - May 4,

(untouched Humane
Society Photos)

HOWEVER,
KINDNESS IS A YEAR-ROUND JOB!

‘
In“ I H" - - - -
L.‘ , 1‘“

y,-
r}
E

3,;

Enclosed is my donation:
E] $25 Cl $50
Cl $100 C] Other
NAME
ADDRESS
ClTY ZIP
PHONL

SEND T01HUMANE SOCIETY OF TAMPA BAY

3607 N. ARMENIA
TAMPA, FL 33607

 

 

In: PLEASE CLlP OUT AND MAlL III-ll
NON-PROFIT ORGANIZAUON ALL DONATIONS ARE TAX osoucneus

HUMANE SOCIETY OF TAMPA BAY o

THE HUMANE SOCIETY OF TAMPA BAY is
undergoing a complete renovation of our shelter
so that we may provide the highest standard of
care for the nearly 12,000 homeless animals we
receive each year. Many of these will be suffer-
ing from abuse and neglect.

PLEASE HELP US to provide the sheltering,
humane education, public awareness and
cruelty investigation that is necessary to
prevent future cruelty and suffering.

 

 

 




HOUSTON CHRONICLE - April 27, 1986

Leg! We may be puton pit bu!
butis

 

By CATHV GORDON
Houston Chronicle

 

CONROE - Spurred by citizens‘ com-
plaints about a rash of pit bulldog attacks,
city attorneys are proposing to put the legal
bite on the animals‘ owners by banning the
breed within city limits.

If Conroe passes such an ordinance. it will
be the second city in the Houston area to
outlaw the breed. A‘ngleton City Council
voted earlier this .month to make ownership
of pit bull terriers illegal inside city limits.

Members of a pit bull club that sued
Montgomery County in December for ban—
ning the use of the county park for a dog
show said Conroe officials will be violating
the Constitution if they outlaw the animals.

“What‘s next? Once a city tells you what
kind of dog you can or cannot own. will they
tell you what wife to pick and what color of
clothes your kid can wear to school?“ said
Porter resident Billy Kindley, a member of
the Texas Gulf Coast Pit Bull Club. “We‘re
talking constitutional problems here."

Assistant City Attorney Damita Dan-
dridge has begun drafting the ordinance
that would. if passed by Conroe City Coun-
cil. fine violators $200 for each day they
keep the breed inside city boundaries.

“Hopefully, if owners are hit in the pock-
etbook, they will keep the pit. bulls out."
Dandridge said. “The thing about pit bulls is,
when they attack. it‘s like you have to have
a crowbar to get them off."

She said she is aware of constitutional
questions that are posed with such an ordi-
nance and plans to research those issues

carefully before presenting the preposal to -

City Council in two months.

“There are a lot of constitutional argu-
ments that could be brought up," Dandridge
said. “Like. can we impose it against one
kind of dog? But we’re not telling the people
they can‘t have a pit bulldog. It would just
be against them having it here. Our legal
department will review the ordinance real
well before going before the council. We‘ll
have a history of attacks to present."

In October. a 4-year-old Conroe girl re-
ceived 40 to 50 stitches on her face after
being mauled by her neighbors pit bull. The
dogs owner pleaded guilty to a misde-
meanor charge of injury to a child and
agreed to muzzle and remove the dog from
Montgomery County.

Two months later. a 6-year-old Conroe
girl was hospitalized after being attacked
by a neighbor's pit bulldog. The family did
not press charges.

In March. a Conroe family's 10-year-old
pet terrier was killed by two pit bulls.

A number of other attacks on humans
have occurred outside Conroe in Montgom-
ery County during the last two years. includ-
ing one that resulted in the death of a 4-
year-old Magnolia boy.

Under a current city ordinance. any dog
found to be vicious can be muzzled or con-

,

i
l
I
l
I

i
I
t

fined in a special enclosure, Dandridge
said. .

In cases where the dog has seriously
wounded someone, the animal can be
destroyed by court order.

“But from the research I’ve done; the
difference between pit bulls and other
dangerous dogs is that pit bulls sneak
up on their victim. They don’t bark.”
Dandridge said. “That‘s why I think
they are particularly dangerous.”

Under the Angleton ordinance, police
will investigate residents’ complaints
about pit bulls, allowing theydogs’ own-
ers adequate time to relocate the ani-

mal. Violators would be fined a maxi-
mum $200 and the municipal Judge has
the power to order the dogs killed.

Conroe City Administrator Olen
Petty said council members will have
to do their homework before deciding if
they should pass a similar ordinance.

“I’m not sure of the constitutionality
of singling out one breed.” he said. “Be-
fore it goes to vote, I can assure that it
will be fully explor .” . .

Carrie Fitch, secretary of the
Greater Houston American Pit Bull
Terrier Club and a member of the Gulf
Coast club. said an ordinance singling
out pit bulldogs would be impossible to
pnforce. ’

“Never mind unconstitutional. It
would be, fought by every dog organiza-
tion you can think of. And there‘s five
different kinds of dogs, all with differ-
ent body. structures and looks. that can
be classrfied as pit bulls. There's no
way you can single them out.”

Don Johnson, a Houston member of
the club. said: “I believe in local rule.
So,'let Conroe do what it wants as long
as us within the law. But I believe it‘s
probably unconstitutional. If the ma-
Jority of people in Conroe want to get
rid of one of the finest animals in the
country, that’s their business. I don’t

have to worry about it. I don’t live

there.”

 




i “u .1i "mun-g- «of

L

lcle

v

inances
ible to en-

ity ord

imotny Bullard / Chron
y's c
imposs

T
itch sa

ick F
ldogs would be

giﬁﬁéeamﬁ‘al’ﬂ‘.

ith a friendly 1
t pit bul

o

singling ou
force

responds w

a

who

 

Precious,

)

hugs two of her p

 

is mother

ier Club

c};
:3
O
I
L.
(D
+4
(U
(D
L-
(D
Q)
.1:
+4
s.—
O
>‘
L.
(U
+4
(D
L.
O
Q)
(I)

3

it Bull Terr
in Crunch and h

ie tch of Houston
ton American P
, Capta

bulls

F

Carr

 

 




 

 

ATLANTA JOURNAL/CONSTITUTION - May 3, 1986

Special

A youthful rhesus monkey nestles in the arms of
its mother in the woods along the banks of

Florida’s Silver River.

State seeking to evict
mischievous macaques

By Jennie Hess
Staff Writer

OCALA, Fla. - On the north
bank of the lazy Silver River, troops
of rhesus monkeys are scrambling
into position. Some take their posts
among a bed of lily pads. Some
stand watch on twisted tree roots
that wind deep into the crystal wa-
ter.

The pointy-eared primates are
waiting for their daily bread, tossed
by the slice like expendable Fris-
bees from passing tourist boats.

These are the monkeys of Silver
Springs, the north-central Florida
attraction where Johnny Weiss-
muller brought Tarzan, to life in the
1930s, where Lloyd Bridges filmed
“Sea Hunt” sequences a couple of
decades later. . "

These are the monkeys destined
to lose their place in primate para-
dise. .

About 80 of them, from adults
to juveniles to babies, are faced
with eviction because Florida wild-
life officers have deemed them too
dangerous to be on the run, and Sil-
ver Springs officials say they can’t
control the furry brown animals.

Legend has it that the exotic
creatures have been running free
since they were brought in as extras
for the early Tarzan flicks and then
left behind when the cameras were
packed and the action was over. ’

They’re the only rhesus mon-
keys, also called macaques, in the
United States roaming loose in a
natural habitat. Although a Silver
Springs spokesman says there have
been no documented instances of
monkey attacks at the 320-acre at-
traction, the state says visitors to

the park have been bitten and that
the macaques must go. -

“They are not cute, cuddly little
monkeys,” says Maj. Kyle Hill of
the Florida Game and Fresh Water
Fish Commission. “These things can
kill you.”

Hill has ordered Silver Springs
officials to either control or remove
the monkeys, which weigh between
25 and 35 pounds as adults, living
along the river’s north side.

Some members of the monkey
troops have succumbed to wander-
lust, crossing the borders of this
registered national landmark, and
Hill says they’ve attacked or bitten
humans and livestock.

At least 100 monkeys living on
the river’s south side don’t pose a
problem because they haven‘t
crossed the water and ventured off
Silver Springs land.

In fact, there was a time re-
cently when park managers thought
the south bank might solve their
problem.

Just move the north-end ma-
caques to the south end, they rea-
soned. But the territorial creatures
decided there was no place like
home, and they dog-paddled defiant-
ly back across the river to the north

. end.

Between 1977 and 1984 at least
17 instances of monkey attacks
have been recorded, says Hill.

The assaults were mostly pro-
voked, says Lt. John Moran, wildlife
inspector for a 12-county region in
Florida that includes the Ocala
area.

“Most of the bites occurred be-
cause pe0ple were feeding them or
made some gesture,” Moran says.
“To have that happen, you’ve got to
have the people and monkeys in
close quarters.”

" Silver Springs monkeys face
banishment from paradise

Even if people knew how to
deal with wild monkeys, which
means letting them alone. the prob-
lem would remain, because Florida
law prohibits the release of non-na-
tive creatures into the wild.

“We have our share of troubles
with native critters. We certainly
don’t need added troubles with exot-
ics,” Hill says. “They’ve already
been brought to trial and convict-
ed.”

Opponents of the monkey round-
up say the trial wasn’t a fair one.

“Pe0ple get bitten by alligators
in Florida each year,” says Linda
Wolfe, a University of Florida assis-
tant professor of anthropology who
has studied these and other pri-

mates around the world. “There are
lots of poisonous snakes in this part
of Florida. If all these monkeys are
‘so dangerous, you would think that
people would be just up in arms
about getting rid of these animals.”
Truth is, the monkeys are one of
Silver Springs‘ most popular attrac-
tions among tourists crowded into
the Jungle Cruise boats and plea-
sure boaters who are allowed to
cruise up the river. .

As the tour boat Silver Queen
drifts close to one troop on the riv-
er’s south shore, several small chil-
dren begin to point and chant excit-
edly, “Monkey, monkey.”

The monkeys sit there obliging-
ly, probably thinking about more
slices of bread.

Though they could survive off
the land here, Silver Springs work-
ers feed them fruit and monkey
chow daily.

“It‘s such a unique opportunity,”
says Dr. Wolfe. “for peeple who
don’t have thousands of dollars to
go up the Amazon or into Indonesia
to see these animals.”

Since 1860, the lush, jungle-like
setting of the Silver Springs attrac-
tion, known for its glass-bottom
boat rides, has been a popular tour-
ist destination. Long before the
monkeys moved in. visitors traveled
by steamboat down the St. Johns
River from Jacksonville. then west

i_ and south again down the Oklawaha

AUVJ
8 L

 




River to visit the park, shaded by
an umbrella of old oaks, palms and
cypress.

Dr. Wolfe believes it was not

the Tarzan producers but a conces-
sion boat Operator named Captain
Tooey who was responsible for in-
troducing the rhesus monkeys from
India into the semi-wilds of Ocala

during the late 19303.

After researching old newspaper
clippings and consulting elderly res-
idents of the area, Dr. Wolfe

learned Tooey couldn’t pay his men
wages, so he acquired between sxx
and 12 circus macaques and re-
leased them along the river, h0ping
tourists would be pleased and give
his boat operators better tips.

In whatever manner they ar-
rived, the macaques have multiplied
with plenty of success ever smce.
By 1984, rhesus monkeys roaming
the north side became so numerous
that the state wanted some of them
removed.

At least 200 were captured and

many sold to Buckshire Corp. in
Perkasie, Pa., where Silver Springs
officials thought the animals would
be relocated in “a zoo or a wildlife
organization,” says Silver Springs
spokesman Dave Warren.

Buckshire Corp., which bills it-
self as “a breeder of research ani-
mals,” sold some of the monkeys to
researchers and kept others to
breed, says Jim Sears, who handled
the purchase of Silver Springs mon-
keys.

The Humane Society of the
United States is hoping to avoid a
similar fate for the other north-side
macaques.

Jeanne Roush, HSUS director of
captive wildlife protection, says a
Texas sanctuary, Primarily Pri-
mates, may be interested in giving
the monkeys a home.

“Other than that, we don’t have
any other bright ideas at the mo-
ment,” says Ms. Roush, who adds
she “can understand why Fish and
Game doesn’t want a monkey popu-
lation running loose around Flori-

8.”

Animals rights activists in the

state are less understandin.

a,

. Raini Sequoya, president of Na-
tional Animal Rights Inc. of Tampa,
lays the blame for the monkeys’
predicament on Silver Springs offi-

cials, calling them “animal flesh"

peddlers” and threatening to orga-
nize a “massive protest” outside the
attraction’s gates.

. Sequoya and Dr. Wolfe say ster-
ilizing the monkeys and returning
them to the site would solve Silver
Springs’ problems.

But Hill says “sterilized mon-
keys still bite” and disputes Dr.
Wolfe’s assertion that rhesus mon-
keys wouldn’t attack unless pro~
voked because they don’t eat meat.

Wildlife officials did offer Silver

’ Springs the Option of erecting a

monkey-proof fence, but Warren
says it would be nearly impossible
to figure out how to fence in the
macaques on the 4,000 acres of un-
deveIOped land around the park.

“We’re kind of in the middle of
this,” Warren says. “We don’tmvant
to move the monkeys. We hate to
lose them.” “a

In the last few weeks, just two
monkeys have been caught in cage-
like traps baited with food and
placed in a holding cell in the
woods to await relocation. They’re
not easy to capture.

They’re not happy when caught.
One sits, nursing a bleeding shoul-
der. Probably got into a fight, says
Warren. -

The other sulks yards away,
probably awaiting the arrivalof the
rest of his troop. ' " “‘

 

The tour boat Silver Queen IV sets a course through
Silver Springs park in Florida, where visitors can United States.

 

Jacksonville '

Daytona
Beach 0

- can
_ “Ivor Springs

FLORIDA

’ " Miami . .

 

. . . ~ . ..-,
.. A ,fn ; , n._‘“Mf‘1‘s€"‘”t‘¥’-"'“!‘

RON CODDINGTON/Staﬁ

~:'-'~ 2 AS;
‘ '4

 

dispels:
catch a glimpse of the only wild monkeys in the

 




AQSJaH uuor Aq uouensnu

    

SAN FRANCISCO IMAGE
Magazine section - 4/27/86

 

 

l.

 

 

 

The Patter of g
Tiny Hooves

I read Rob , ,7
Schultheis’s article
“Hog Wild in Marin”

[March 16] and I have to tell you, I fear for
my life! Wild hogs gone berserk in Mar-

in . . . ripping up the earth with their snouts
and trampling the landscape with their
sharp little hooves! I am more concerned
with mercury in my salmon, logging com-
pany silting and what industry is doing to
the Bay.

I own rural acreage in both Mendocino
and Sonoma counties and have hunted said
porkers for twenty years. It strikes me that
turning one hunter and a pack of pit bulls
loose in Marin on a part-time basis is not
the best solution. Pit bulls and wild hogs
killing or maiming each other is not only
inhumane, it’s downright dangerous to any
human or animal that comes in proximity
to a wounded pit bull or hog.

Reverting to World War I trench war-
fare and fencing of f northern California is
absurd; I never saw a hog-proof fence that
lasted very long.

A solution might be to assign certain
tracts of land to teams of hunters on a con-
sistent full-time basis. I know from my own
experience that as few as three hunters, fa-
miliar with a 1,000-acre tract, can devas-
tate a hog population over a two-year peri-
od. However, opening a hunt to the general
public would assure the bushes being full of
wounded and dangerous hogs, not to men-
tion stray bullets, brush fires and beer cans.

As to finding hogs this time of year
when the ground is wet and the tracking is
easy, I suggest leaving the dogs at home,
going in on foot and looking under the
south side of oak trees. Hogs stay close to a

known food source in winter. . . and like to
stay in the sun.

 

Leonard Kuras
San Francisco

“Hog Wild in Marin” points up the
worst macho qualities in men and, yes,
doubtless a few women tough enough to rel-
ish tracking down wild animals of the fe-
rocity of the boars infesting the Marin
wilds. Consider the loss of dogs in this cruel
pursuit and you have a picture as revolting
as some of the quotes of the professional

 
 

 

i

 

ET T E R S

 

x j hunter who figured in
P _ -“ the article. As for the
fa ' 7 j hunter having love for
7 7 " his prey—or Heming-
way’s “moment of
truth”—all I can say,
if you’ll pardon the ex-
pression, is “Hogwash!”

Pauline Blanc
San Francisco

I am still laughing at Rob Schultheis’s
article. While I certainly see the serious-
ness of the ecological damage those feral
pigs are wreaking, the image of all those
psychotherapists, dentists and lawyers up to
their ankles in pig-created mud, making
their way to their BMWs and Porsches,
cracks me up.

First, nearly—Biblical storms destroy the
homes of the overprivileged, and now a por-
cine plague threatens to eat the landscape
out from under them. There is too much
poetic justice here to be ignored.

Jill Mitchell
San Francisco

 

' But Ely ﬁgures that someday “Nature is go-

 

' the Near Escapes tour company. appeared

y/MW/ ﬂ’iZg/ mama ,

 

bought his ﬁrst mini in 1967 as a pet; in
1972 he traveled to Argentina to buy a little
stallion and start his own herd. It was during
his VW days that Ely met Danny Barba,
who ran the Mexican restaurant across the
street from his VW dealership in Oakland.
Seventeen years ago, Barba beeame Ely’s
estate caretaker, stable master and resident
miniature horse fanatic.

“I love these little guys,” Barba says,
“and they love me. Here, watch.” He bends
down for a miniature slobbering kiss from
Playboy, and doesn’t even wipe it off.

Miniature horses are not, as many peo-
ple assume, descendants of the “dawn
horse” of the Eocene era. thippus was be-
tween ten and twenty inches high and died
out some 50 million years ago. Modern min- ,'
iatures resulted from generations of breed- i
ing the smallest of each breed—generally
Arabians—to each other. First bred in the
sixteenth century for the royal courts of Eu—
rope, miniatures beeame pampered pets.

The little creatures found themselves in dif-

f erent circumstances when royal households
began their decline. Many ended up in trav- i
cling circuses.

Breeding over the past two centuries has
brought the miniatures to even smaller sizes.

 

ing to step in, although we haven’t reached
that point yet.

“Nature won’t allow you to breed a six-
foot jackrabbit, and it won’t allow a horse
much smaller than 26 inches, which is the
smallest full-grown miniature that I own.
We’re getting pretty close to that limit now.
Already many of the minis don’t have the
strength to kick out of the sack when they’re
born. And they have a hard time breathing.
They’re too little. And they’re so delieate.”

On the other hand, they’re great at
parties. El

 

Gregg Levoy's last piece for Image, on

in the March 23 issue.

 

 




SAN FRANCISCO IMAGE Magazine - April 27, 1986

 

LOW PROFILE / BY GREGG LEVOY

HOME ON THE RUG

RAYFORD ELY BRINGS HIS MINIATURE HORSES
RIGHT INTO THE LIVING ROOM.

Ziewuqejs 951099 Aq Audeiﬁoioud

 

 

hen Rayford
Ely has a par-
ty, he likes to
throw in a
Showstopper or two.
His favorite is waiting
until the festivities are
well under way and
then letting some of his '_ ’
horses into the house.
His gawking guests
wonder how much
they’ve really had to
drink.
This is because the
horses in Rayford Ely’s
herd are no bigger
than Sheepdogs.
Ely (pronounced
eelee) is founder of the
Worldwide Miniature
Horse Association,
which is dedicated to
“preserving the integri-
ty” of a very unusual
species.
The association
registers only horses
under 32 inches tall at

 

do)" '. muskWeen-:xauvumwuruw “wast-sgwmw . «‘- v ‘

the withers, what Ely i i is}? »

calls the Rolls Royces

of miniature horse- Ely at home‘with Playboy: “

2-: ;
4:: 94‘s.»; .14.; .

I can’t help myself. I’ve fallen in love with them.”

because the feat
sounds impossible—
just humiliating.

All of Ely’s min-
is—sometimes called
dwarfs or toys (Ely
frowns again)—live
with him and his wife
on their opulent two-
acre walled estate in
the Oakland hills. You
will occasionally find
them grazing peaceful-
ly on the grassy hillside
behind the swimming
pool with the inlaid tile
swordﬁsh at the bot-
tom, adjacent to the
guest house with the
sixteenth-century mar-
ble sculptures, beside
the fountain with the
colored lights, which
Ely’s neighbor on the
opposite hillside asks
him to please turn on
whenever they have a
party.

Once, a ﬁlm crew
shooting a science-ﬁc-
tion movie to be set on
a planet of Lilliputian

 

 

dom.

Horses 56 inches or shorter are techni-
cally ponies. The Shetland, at 46 inches, is
considered a pony, not a miniature. Minis
start at 34 inches—the American Miniature
Horse Association, in Burleson, Texas, reg-
isters those—and prices go up as size goes
down. A full-grown mini from 32 to 34 inch-
es could bring $1,000 and up; 30 to 32 inch-
es at least $5,000; 30 inches or less and you
could command anywhere from $10,000 to
more than $100,000, says Ely. There are
about 7,000 miniature horses worldwide, if
you count those that stand under 34 inches
tall, which Ely doesn’t. Of the smallest min-
iatures, he estimates there might be 750 in
the world. Ely’s herd of eight miniatures are
all under 30 inches—the only such herd in
the country, he says. Ely’s smallest mini-—a
mare named Silver Dollar—stands 26 inch-
es tall.

Whatever their size, these animals are
just like full-sized horses in everything ex-
cept stature, insists Ely. “Same instincts,
same temperament, same gestation period

 

[eleven months] , same life-span [roughly 25
years] ,” he says. “They’re just smaller. And
more docile, but only because they’re so cute
that they’re inside the house almost more
than they’re outside it. I can’t help myself.
I’ve fallen in love with them.”

In Ely’s bedroom there is a stuffed toy
horse. It belongs to a tiny yearling named
Playboy, who is regularly allowed in the
house to play with it.

Minis, Ely says, are also more trainable
than full-sized horses, though he wouldn’t
tempt fate, he says, by boasting that they’re
housebroken. “They do use their brains
more, because they don’t have the strength
to fight it out. They’re very intelligent. Here,
watch.”

Ely locks one of his minis in the corral,
using a hook and a latch to secure the gate.
Within 30 seconds, the horse has opened
both with its mouth.

One miniature-horse breeder in North
Carolina claims to have taught one of his
minis to water-ski. Ely frowns, though not

 

proportions came to
Ely’s place, set up huge plastic mushrooms
on the back lawn and had the horses graze
among them.

The city of Oakland has given special
dispensation for a horse farm within its lim-
its, considering Ely’s minis a “city treasure.’
Ely regularly shows them at nursing homes,
parades, civic events and schools.

Ely himself is gracious and worldly. Al-
though his house is adorned with a phalanx
of guns, swords and animal heads, he can no
longer bring himself to hunt. “I hate to see
suffering anymore. Maybe you change that
way as you get older. Maybe the minis have
had something to do with it. They kind of
look like little deer.”

Ely comes to horse breeding naturally.
He was raised on a cattle ranch on the
northern plains of Texas, and to this day he
still considers himself “an old cowboy.” He
eventually moved farther west and became
a car dealer, first Nash Ramblers and
Buicks, then Volkswagens and finally
Porsches and Audis; he’s now retired. Ely

9

 

 

 

 




CLEVELAND PLAIN DEALER - April 28, 1986

Baby eagle comes out of its shell .

Human ‘foster father’ welcomes arrival at city museum

By KAREN R. LONG
SCIENCE WRITER

Endangered American bald eagles
became one eaglet stronger at 10:57
pm. Saturday in a nativity scene
played out in a smelly basement room
at Cleveland Museum of Natural His-

ry.

The eaglet hatched after a 25-hour
struggle onto a brown paper towel,
confronted with a burst of camera
flashes and encircled by anxious
human faces. One belonged to Carl F.
Lutzmann, 28, the gentle Cleveland

 

Heights animal keeper who is the
bird’s foster father.

Its mother, Martha, chose Lutz-
mann as her lifelong mate in 1975,
when Lutzmann was a high school stu-
dent working around museum birds.
Martha presented Lutzmann with an

i

WOOdman calls museum photogra-'

pher Bruce Frumker. They meet Web-
ster in the museum “animal room.”
Webster has moved the dingy white
egg ..‘ not much bigger than AAA
extra-large supermarket size — into a
hatcher and cranked up the humidity
to» 64%. The temperature is kept at 99
degrees Fahrenheit.

',. ”Martha is not allowed to sit on her

eggs, because she was once fed day»

old chickens at an Indiana nature pre-

serve.‘Martha’s maternal instincts are .

: not'truﬂsted. An experiment with baby
goslin'g a few years back went ill for
the gosling. ' '
Saturday

0 2 am. — Webster warns the hatch
could take as much as 60 hours. “The
perigrine falcon averages 50,” Web-
ster says. Eaglet No. 1 burst upon the
scene in less than eight, but no one can

larger. “1 think someone’s asleep in

there,” he observes mildly.

o 6 am. — Lutzmann arrives for the

morning ritual of collecting semen

from the museum’s male eagle,

Argus. . .

The liquid is taken back to the ani-

mal room, where Webster examines it
under a microscope. It is of poor qual-
ity. There will be no insemination this
morning.

0 7:10 am. — The crack looks a little
deeper, but that could be the distor-
tion of the hatcher’s plastic lid, added
to the watchers’ lack of sleep. Break-
fast is discussed

Woodman: “I could run out to Nor-
ton’s and get a serious breakfast: eggs
and stuff.” ‘

Webster: “Not eggs.”

expect as much from this bird.”

(:3 am. — Webster takes off the
hatcher lid and peeps encouragement
t6 the egg. Nothing. The pip is no

egg, putting the world on notice she
would have nothing to do with males
of her own species.

Martha since has provided Lutz-
mann with 53 eggs. Four have been
fertilized through artificial insemina-

on. .. _ .
.. The first egg smashed when
Martha’s nest broke in 1983. The sec-
ond became eaglet No. 1, hatched
April 24, 1984. It was placed in a nest
in the wilds. The third suffocated in its
shell. The fourth navigated the peril-
ous trip out of its shell Saturday —
arriving moist, exhausted and vocal.

The Plain Dealer was present, from
the first hairline crack to the moment
when animal curator Harvey B. Web-
ster cleaned a bit of blood from the

purplish-pink bird’s soggy chest feath-
ers. .
A chronology of the hatch:
Friday ;

i- 10:30 pm. — Janitor Chuck Wau-
gaman, unable to resist a check of the
incubator cradling Martha’s egg, is
startled to see a feathery crack. He
telephones museum publicist Lynne
Woodman, who has two words of
instruction: “Call Harvey.”

Webster speeds to the museum to
discover the egg has pipped. That
means the eaglet, encouraged by hor-
mones to start scratching, has broken
into its air sac and passed its first big
hurdle. It has chipped a tiny hole in its
shell.

 

 

 

 

An eaglet flops from its shell. weary from a 25-hour struggle to hatch. It was conceived

through artificial insemination as rt of t
breeding program. pa he Cleveland Museum of Natural History’s

 




Woodman: "you know, 1 ate scram-
bled eggs the other morning and I felt
like a cannibal.”

The group settles on donuts.

0 9:15 am. — The eaglet is awake. Its
chipping tooth is pushing faintly
against a dime—sized circle of faint
cracks. This makes the area bulge
slightly, like a drum skin. The bird
must use its tooth to score a circular
escape hatch inside the more rounded
end of the shell. .

“Traditionally, the aviculturist is
encouraged not to interfere,” Webster
says. “Just like they’re discovering
human birth is good for a child’s reSpi-
ration, the hatching process is a very
healthy thing for a chick to go
through. It strengthens their respira-
tory process.”

0 12:04 pm. — “Obi,” says Joseph
DeRocber, museum planetarium
director. “He just poked a piece out, a
little chunk (the size of a dust mote).
You can see the egg tooth come out,

too. Boy, I was looking at just the

right time.”

Noses hover over the batcber. Noth-
ing more than the humming of the
batcber’s fan.

0 2:02 pm. -— The eaglet peeps.
Twice. Emphatically. Everyone peeps
back, to the best of their abilities. The
egg shudders and falls quiet.

“It still has a long way to go,” Web-
ster says. Conversation among the
weary drifts back to grade-B movies,
touches on the nature of God and
comes to rest on the occasion of the
first hatch.

“That was really a rather magic
night,” Frumker says. “Did you ever
hear the soundtrack of that batch? It
is ‘Oh god. Oh my god. Oh God! God!
ohhb.’ . . . We were all speechless.”

“That was quite an evening,” Web-
ster agrees.

Asked for a comparison, Lutzmann
says: “This is even worse. It’s been
such a long time. I started at the
museum as a volunteer in ’68, mostly
tending ducks”

0 4:42 pm. — Lutzmann fills a hot
water bottle and takes it to the nest he
helped Martha build this spring, as her
mate in the wild would do. Martha has
laid another egg, and she needs Lutz-
mann to guard it while she feeds and
drinks.

Lutzmann climbs onto the nest plat-
form. The man strokes the great
bird’s back, then sits next to the new
egg, elbows on knees, watching the
sky. It’s a big irnprovement over sit-
ting with her in February snow.

A quiet fellow, Lutzmann has what
Nobel laureate Barbara McClintock
calls “a feeling for the organism.”
When Martha returns to the perch, he

‘

picks up the hot water bag and rejoins
the vigil.

0 6:45 pm. -- Two more shell chips
rest on the paper towel; the egg lies
quiet. The pe0ple gulp take—out pizza.
0 9:40 pm. — The eaglet is pushing

 

harder and expands the cracked area
to the size of a quarter. The thick shell
resists, and the room is full of color
commentary as each watcher encour-
ages the bird

010:10 pm. — The egg shudders and

LOS ANGELES TIMES - April 26, 1986

Game Panel
Orders Delay
in Hunting of

 

another, bigger chip falls. More fol-
low, creating a line of fragments that
mark where the eaglet is scoring the
shell. The sixth chip falls and a
seventh is dangling. The sections of
shell outlined by cracks start to Open
and shut. , 1 '
0 10:30 pm. — Another rest, then the
egg almost jumps, shuddering from
side to side. Lutzmann whispers
encouragement. Woodman telephones
the museum observatory, where Web-
ster has gone to look at Saturn.

“Coming now,” he answers, slam-
ming the phone. DMp feathers are
poking from the original pip bole.
Webster appears, clears his desk and
lines it with gauze pads, distilled
water, antibiotics, tweezers, swabs
and a stainless steel bowl. _ _
010:52 pm. —- A shell lid is almost
chipped open. The egg rocks 45
degrees in both directions. The room
is silent except for almost constant
chirping. The people breathe shal-
lowly, Open-mouthed. Then a bad
crack develops, and one wing is out
against its sharp edge. Webster takes
out his surgical scissors and starts
assisting, as if he were peeling an
exquisite hard-boiled egg.

010:57 pm. —- The bea , eyes and
head pop out, the long neck 10115 free.
The eaglet flops on its face. Webster
dusts away broken shell, then snips
the main blood vessel tied to the yoke
Bleeding makes an alarming spot, but

 

abates.
“ ot bad,” breathes Lutzmann, break-

ing the silence.
1 “He looks good and pink. He did
'j pretty well,” Webster says.
Between the two, a slimy, 3-ounce
creature peeps once, as if to say, “I’m
here. I am an eagle.”

\/

who moved instead to allow a
limited hunt this year in the North
Kings area of eastern Fresno
County, where sportsmen say the
deer population Is espeCially

threatened by mountain lions.

The motion died for lack of a

second.

 

\ {President Abel C. Galletti,

1 Wild Lions

By DAVID HALDANE,
Times Staff Writer

Game hunters will have to wait

}. at least another year before open-

7: ‘ ing fire on California mountain

lions, the state Fish and Game
Commission ruled Friday.

, The commission decided to post-
. pone open season on the animals %
'. until state officials can study their
breeding, eating and living habits.
. The 3-2 vote, confirming a pre-
liminary decision April 5 in San
,. Diego, came after commissioners,
' meetmg in Long Beach, heard
testimony from several sources,
including hunters, sportsmen, con-

, servationists and actor Robert
j Redford.

. In a letter to the commission,
Redford—who played a big-game
hunter in the Academy award-
winning motion picture “Out of
Afr1ca”—-expressed opposition to
‘ the hunting of lions, a practice he
terme’d “greatly offensive to
3. many.’

 

Subject of Debate

Vigorous debate on the future of
the state’s mountain lion popula-
tion has continued since Jan. 1,
when a 14—year moratorium on
hunting the animals expired. Gov.
; George Deukmejian vetoed a bill
that would have extended it.
_. ' Hunters maintain that mountain
lions—now believed to number
1"; about 4,800 in California—threaten
‘_ the. state’s deer population on
g which they prey and should there-
fore be subject to management
through sport hunting. Animal lov-
ers and conservationists have ar—
gued that the lions should be
protected.
Feelings on the matter became
. particularly Strong last month after
a hon attacked and seriously in- '
jured a 5-year-old girl in a wilder-
ness park in Orange County.
_ Friday’s action by the commis-
smn .was opposed by commission
Premdent Brian J. Kahn and by

 

 




DENVER POST - May 8, 1986

, Shoppel’ 5 habit is the rabbit’s fortune

I mferi'to Helen Dollaghan’s ar-
ticle in the April 30 Food Section,
“Hop to it!” It is fortunate for the

rabbits that most supermarket

shoppers choose alternative forms
of food. For a breeder to produce
meat at anything like a profit on a
commercial basis, rabbits must be
kept in extremely small cages.
Rabbits multiply quickly not be-

Gentle creatures raised to be killed

as pets and cannot stand the

Helen Dollaghan advises the
public to add rabbits to their diet. I
find this most objectionable. I am
3 Vegetarian for reasons of health
and morality (I don’t feel it is
right to kill other feeling creatures
for food, when it’s not necessary
to do so in order to eat a balanced,
healthful diet). I also raise rabbits

. cause of frequent breeding, but be-

cause their young mature at an
early age. The rabbit breeders
would have to resort to the same
practices as beef producers in
feeding large quantities of antibi-
otics. This would not be good for
human health.
KRYSTYNA CHERRY
_Fort Collins

thought of these gentle, innocent
creatures being raised and killed
for food. Our diet is varied enough
in this country . . . we do not need
to add to it .‘instead, we need to
subtract from it. ' ' .

' ‘ CAROL DeWITT

Denver

A‘Ms. Dollaghan ever Own a pet rabbit?

We already kill billions of ani-
mals a year for Our dinner tables
in this country, why add yet anoth-
er gentle, feeling speciesto the
list? We have been advised by nu-
trition experts to drastically cut
back our intake of meat, not add
to it. Has Ms. Dollaghan ever visit-
ed a factory farm where “meat
animals" are produced? If she

has, she would never condemn an-
other species of animal to that
form of mass production. " ~
Has she ever had a pet rabbit?
Does she know how wonderful
they are; how affectionate, full of
fun and personality? If she had,
she probably could never~eat one.
JAN GROTE

Denver

Vegetables have less fat than rabbit

While every major health orga-
nization in this country is advising
Americans to eat less meat, your
food editor is promoting yet anoth-
er kind of meat. And while rabbit
flesh may have less fat than other
meats, vegetables have still less.
If your food editor had investigat7
ed the manner in which “meat”
rabbits are raised, she would have

discovered that they are confined
in miserable conditions which pro-
duce stress and disease, and,

therefore, they must be fed large

doses of antibiotics, which, in turn,
are passed on to those who choose
to believe Ms. Dollaghan, and eat
rabbit. _ e -

' ' r SUSIE SCHMIT’I‘

Loveland

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




HOUSTON CHRONICLE - may 10, 1986

Some Rice grads don ’f want sheepskin

ORE THAN 900 students who plain old parchment diplomas. The university was happy to oblige

graduate from Rice Univer- Rice spokesman Brent Breech said the vegetarians. possibly because it‘s

. sity today will receive the two students who will get paper cheaper. The sheepskins, fashioned

sheepskin diplomas, a tradition that diplomas are vegetarians who objected from hapless English sheep. cost $28

only a few colleges still observe. to the use of animal skins for the diplo- apiece, while the non-traditional parch-

But the ‘sheepskm diplomas didn’t sit mas. ment diplomas only cost six bucks
well With two women students. The two Two years ago, another vegetarian each.

students requested and will receive student also got a parchment diploma.— —— Nancy Stancill

,U C#RONZCLE
”WSW see-840

HOUSTON CHRONICLE - May 7, 1986

Conan, king of crustaceans,

spared barbaric treatment

MESQUITE (UPI) — Conan, the 22-
pound, 154-year-old lobster who was to
grace the dinner table of the winners of
a restaurant drawing, was spared from
execution and will spend the rest of his
life in protective custody.

Officials with the Dallas office of
Red Lobster restaurants agreed to save
Conan after receiving a number of
calls from people as far away as Hous-
ton and Arkansas who expressed out-
rage at reports that Conan would be
eaten Tuesday night by the winners of
a drawing for a free dinner.

The Dallas Morning News ran a
story about the massive crustacean,
and Conan’s fate was broadcast in
Houston after disc jockeys for the
KFMK morning radio program heard
about the dinner from United Press In-
ternational.

“The story appalled me. As soon as I
got off the air I called Red Lobster in
Orlando (Fla). I talked to the guys in
Dallas and told them how outraged ev-
eryone was and threatened to picket
the restaurant.” said KFMK Program
Director Ben Hill. '

“We were going to offer to fly them
(the winners) to Boston to eat at a real
lobster place if they didn’t eat Conan,”
he said. ' .

After receiving the calls from Hill,
radio station KFSA in Fort Smith, Ark.,
and numerous Dallas and Houston resi-
dents who thought eating Conan would

be barbaric, Red Lobster officials de-
cided against serving the crustacean,
said Dave Pickens, Red Lobster
Spokesman in Dallas.

“He’s going to live past tonight,” said
Pickens, who was arranging to have
Conan shipped to a new home at Sea-
{lrama Marineworld on Galveston Is-
and.

Hill said his station flew a disc
jockey to Dallas to keep an eye on Co-
nan when Mike and Kathy Brewers

showed up for their free dinner Tues-

day night.

“He’s going to make sure they don’t .

eat him,” Hill said. “He’s a 154-year-old
lobster, he’s older than Texas.”

Conan’s age was estimated by multi-
plying his weight by seven.

At Sea-Arama, officials were prepar-
ing a retirement home for Conan. “I’m
real thrilled about it,” said Jennie
Brown, spokeswoman for Sea-Arama.

After the broadcasts in Houston, she '.
said a number of people called and of- '

fered to transport Conan from Mes-
quite to Galveston. .

Conan will require a refrigerated
tank. Brown said Sea-Arama has only
one small refrigerated tank, so officials
plan to get new equipment so he can
have a comfortable home where visi-
tors can see him.

She said tentative arrangements call ,

for Conan to be flown to Galveston
Monday. -

n.

How long will scientists
test drugs on animals?
From Betty McDonnell, Houston.

The report that, in research with ‘
animals, scientists at Johns Hopkins
University have found Thalidomide
promising as a preventive and treat-

l ment for a complication in bone

marrow transplants is most alarm-

: ing (Chronicle, March 31). After Tha-

lidomide was first found to be “safe” -
after extensive animal testing, thou-
sands of children were born hid-
eously deformed.

Billions of tax dollars and millions
of animal lives over these past 20
years since that first Thalidomide
disaster, and researchers are still us-
ing unreliable and costly animal
testing methods. How much longer
will our lives be threatened by old-
fashioned and unsafe drug testing?

 

 




32.4...

1..qu . .ﬁw.ww.... u.
swam s$nuﬁu hi i...

'l'

A Nudge

 

lions and a pup to the Belfast Zoo in Northern

donations to‘pay for flying three blind adult sea may be mailed to Peigin Barrett

ite in the Marin headlands. The center is seeking born to two of the rescued mammals.
for transporting the animals and two attendants.

wo blind sea lions rubbed noses yesterday at
the Marine Mammal Center at Fort Cronk-
lreland. The rescue group hopes to raise $6000

SAN FRANCISCO CHRONICLE ~ May 2, 1986

we
80
cu
a Y...
Sm...
mm
m

W49
om-
Mm.
6“
99
.90
IO-
8
N
o
N.

If
0

a...
3
m.
U...
0
J
m.
D
D
u.
U
a
0
w
w
m:
3
9
U
I,
9
.1

San Francisco. The pup,

The adult lions were found on beaches south of

I

named

Belfast
execuﬁ

I
l

Donat
ve d
onal Recrea'

was
ions
irec-
F

 

 

VW§§VW memm. WNmm \ m\\M\%$
_I new mum—.3908 8083-93 xmzomao

, 033: N8 22 o. :8 2mm!
:2 8.8

2239 macs 8288. 888. mm 8: 83838888

8898.

1039 285 38388883 a :8 363838 a

828: >88.

082620? 1:28 8* =8 93‘ 28 5:8 83.

$863 mo 8 mo 895% 338812. 3QO o: 838%.

am? 388 28 88:8 28 28: a 5.88 S

..

£888 8 8889 :8: 38¢

mm=m 88 N8 22. 2 58 £35

4

ZmBm” $8883 93‘ xmgmmao

103m” $883 28 2383 $3 2 >558 28
383838

082620? 28388 33 888 8 888 8 9.92 5232.

mama: 8 568828. 888 o: :8 9988 28 a m: 8ch 862 8a 2588 £8 ma £818 :83 mag.
8889. x a m 8 N 83 8:. $863 an 8 m8 858m. ma 8: 838 an 8 8 82 a m :38. 28388 S
082. 838 08x. ms. 83.035 magma 96.22 i8 8me 8828888 8. 88 $38 a 38 532
28 8% 88 8822 | £88888... 2 :_ 83 £82.. I 8 3 8:89.

: <0: no” 38 88888 2 38 8238.8 2... 88 g8: 82% o: m 38” 83¢. 38» $28 3% 982 mg 2.
cos 88. :88 88 8 8.3. 8 m 8.3. 88%. >8 :8 038: So. 338%: a 38 83mm 8 28 an...
memo 8* 8088 TN 28 mm 8. mom mm ma :8. 2 8.8 88. 88 8 mm mm“ 888 8a mom a 28 082. 88
8:8 8“ 8% min 98 3 8a mom mm o. 082. 6:888; 582 m ma 83:88 :8 3 no; 88.. _

 

 

 

 




 

OUTSIDE Magazine - June 1986

 

. ‘ ; Kenyans.Rhino Week,arhino

Love machzne: The rhmo s prowess has been its undoing.

 

WILDLIFE

Rhino Roundup

wild rhino roundup is

Ainderway in Kenya. This
year, roughly 30 of the

two-ton, two-horned armored
beasts will be captured near the
green foothills of Mount Kenya
and trucked west to a new
home—the first of nine such
sanctuaries—complete with
guard stations, patrols, and
electrified fences. The ”Rhino
Project,” as it is called, is a last-
ditch effort to save the third-
largest land animal from the
murderous superstitions of the
world's most populous
primate—us.

For more than 20 million
years rhinoceroses have lum-
bered about the plains and
forests of Asia and Africa,
browsing on twigs and grasses.
Stone Age hunters killed the
animals for meat and painted
their likenesses on cave walls.

Even then, the rhino, with
its mighty horns and mightier
copulatory prowess, piqued
our ancestors’ interest. A male
rhino can mount a female for a
solid hour and ejaculate up to
'56 times in the process. This
fact, plus the phallic shape of
its nose horns, has been the
animal’s undoing.

 

 

For several centuries
Asians have considered rhino
horn an aphrodisiac, and dag-
gers carved from it are highly
prized. In fact, rhino horn con—
tains nothing but keratin pro-
tein, the stuff of fingernails.
Nonetheless, four of the rhino
species that have survived to
modern times—the Sumatran,
Javan, Great Indian, and
Square-lipped (or white)
rhinoceros of Africa—have
been decimated. The fifth, the
African black rhino, is seriously
threatened. Less than a century
ago, hundreds of thousands of
black rhinos roamed Africa.
But by 1979 that number had
fallen to 15,000. In Kenya
alone, rhino populations dwin-
dled from 1,500 to 550 between
1980 and 1984. Without a plan
to save it, the last rhino could
be gone by 1990.

The first sanctuary is at

Lake N akuru in central Kenya. ,

The World Wildlife Fund has
donated $32,000 to electrify its
80-kilometer fence, and private
groups in Europe are helping
pay for guard posts and sur—
veillance teams. Most of the
money for this five-year proj-
ect, however, is coming from

ball, and a dummy rhino walk-
1 ing the streets of Nairobi have

all raised consciousness and
Kenya shillings. A traveling

theater company is performing

a play about‘the rhino to gen-
erate funds and discourage
poachers. And the Rhino Man,
a Kenyan named Mike Werikhe,
has walked more than a thou-
sand miles and personally col-
lected $31,000 for the cause.
But there are powerful
economic pressures in the re-
verse direction. At $11,000 a

kilogram, the black-market sale

of a single rhino horn can sup-
port a Kenyan family for two

years. A Kenyan poacher could

still come out ahead by spend-
ing 23 months figuring out
how to evade the guards and
scale the fence, and one night
killing a rhino and hacking off
its horns.

The ultimate solution, of
course, would be to smash the
superstitions surrounding

rhino horn. Second—best would

be to ban the trade of rhino
horn worldwide. World Wild-
life Fund officials are working
through diplomatic channels
to tighten international laws.
And, one W.W.F. spokesman
reports, the amount of bribe
required to sneak horns into
Yemen has already gone up
tenfold.

Meanwhile, eight subse-
quent sanctuaries are planned
in national parks at Nairobi,

 

Courting rhinos in Masai Mara ,

 

 

Aberdares, Meru, Tsavo West,
Masai Mara, and other areas.

Perhaps the amazing courtship

dance of the rhinos will look
less magnificent when the
animals are fenced in. But if
humans could forgo their fas-
cination with fingernails,
projects like this w’ouldn t be
necessary. —]anet Hopson

ADVERTISING AGE

May 12, 1986

 

 

6

. .3“, $5,?

 

Phase one of the San Diego Zoo’s 70th birthday campaign
combines outdoor and tv for an elephant size celebration.

Celebrate the San Diego loo’s 70th birthday.

 

 

 

EEQVV/I

AN OFFBEAT WORLD
Going ape
at the zoo
over TV

From wire reports

ROCHESTER, N.Y. —— Lis-
ten up Barbara Eden, this city
has a guy for you.

He’s 21, recently a widower,
cagey, and enjoys television,
particularly “I Dream of
Jeannie.”

The guy is Gambar, a lonely
orangutan who passes the time
watching television since his
mate died last month.

Ofﬁcials at Rochester’s Sen-
eca Park Zoo said Gambar
watches up to three hours a
day on a color TV from his
cage and has some strong
opinions about what he likes.

“(Gambar) likes Mr. Rogers
because he talks real slowly,”
zoo foreman Sue Moran said.
But Moran said the hairy
viewer has never sat through
an entire movie and walks
away from his donated 21-inch
TV set when cartoons or the
news are on.

Gambar, whose mate of 11
years died in April, usually
watches TV on his belly with
his arms crossed and tucked
under his chin, Moran said.

 

 




 

 

 

John R. Van Beekum / Chronicle

An endangered Kemp’s Rid-
Iey sea turtle sails to free-
dom, in photo at left, after a
final fling from marine biolo-
gist David Forcucci, center.
Above, a young turtle awaits
its return to the Gulf of Mex-
ico after a year in a Galveston
turtle nursery.

 

 




HOUSTON CHRONICLE - May 7, 1986

» The graduates -

Lab sends 8th class of endangered sea turtles into the drink

 

By KEVIN MORAN
Houston Chronicle

own little buckets for a year in a Galveston

laboratory, 963 endangered Kemp’s Ridley

sea turtles were drOpped into the big bucket — the
Gulf of Mexico. .

Some of the yearling turtles, raised b National

Marine Fisheries Service marine iologists,

seemed a little stunned not to find walls on every

PORT ARANSAS —— After growing up in their

side as they were tossed into their natural habitat
from the deck of the Coast Guard cutter Pomt
Baker Tuesday morning.

Others hit the water flailing, ready to show the

world they didn’t need swimming lessons. .
Ranging in size from large salad plates to dinner
plates, the 963 Ridley turtles were trucked, Six to a
box, to the Guard station here and released in five-
foot seas about seven miles offshore.
They joined 518 Galveston-raised Ridleys re-
leased in C0pano Bay near Rockport on May 22.

The two contingents bring to more than 10,000

the number of Ridleys given a head start on life at
the Marine Fisheries laboratory in the last eight
years in hopes that a year‘s growth will give them a
better chance of survival in the wild.

“It‘s great to watch,” said a grinning Carole Al-
len, a Houstonian who helped found an organization
called Help Endangered Animals — Ridley Turtles
(HEART) and is one of the staunchest backers of
the Ridley preservation program.

“For all the people who write letters, and lobby

 

for laws to protect the Ridleys and
raise money, this is our reward," Allen,
a University of Houston journalism stu-
dent, said. -

Allen was elated after she got the
honor of tossing “Lone Star” — the last
turtle and the only one with a name -
from the deck of the cutter.

Lone Star came from one of 97 eggs
laid on North Padre Island by a
Kemp's Ridley turtle last June.

The only known major Ridley nest-
ing place in the world is a beach about
20 miles south of Rancho Nuevo, Mex- .

1C0.

In 1947, 47,000 Ridley females
crawled onto the Mexican beach and
laid 80 to 100 eggs each. '

Last year, fewer than 500 females
appeared.

As far as anyone knows, Lone Star’s
egg was among the first clutch ofRid-
ley eggs laid in Texas in modern times.

Unfortunately, before Texas wildlife

officials could get to the place where
Lone Star’s mother laid her eggs, the
turtle had buried them in the sand and
returned to the sea.

So Marine Fisheries officials don’t
know if Lone Star’s mother was one of
the 10,000 they’ve raised and tagged in
hOpes of establishing a new nesting
ground on the well-protected Padre Is-
land National Seashore.

That’s the purpose of the program.
after all -- to see if Ridley turtles in-
stinctively return to nest on the beach
where they were hatched.

Each year since 1978. Mexican and
US. government agencies have placed
plastic bags under laying Ridley turtles
on the Mexican beach. packed the eggs
in North Padre Island sand and trans-
ported them to Texas for hatching.

Once hatched, the baby turtles are
allowed to run across the Texas beach.
enter the Gulf and then are gathered
and taken to Galveston for a year’s
growth.

The process is called “imprinting." '

The theory is that hatching on the
Texas beach —— and never havmg been
allowed to touch the Mexican sand
even in the egg —— the turtles hatched
on Padre will nest there when they

ach maturit . .
reJust how mgny years it takes Ridleys
to reach maturity in the wild is un-
known. But Ridleys in captmty at a
Caribbean turtle farm have produced
eggs after mating at the tender age of

'Fontaine, however, is Optimistic that
Ridleys mate within 10 years in the
wild. “ .

“I hepe this is the year. “Fontai‘ne
said after Tuesday's release. it WOUld‘
n’t surprise me to see some of our tur-
tles nesting on Padre island.

“Some peeple say it takes as long. as
10 years. Some say 15,” he said. noting
that no one even knows .what the Bid-

*’s ex ected life span is. .

leyBut Fpontaine is cocrltfident the im-

' 'n theor is vali .
prinvt'le‘lgl haveysome of our head start

turtles up there eventually,” he said.

This year more than any before.
wildlife officials will be combing the
beach at the national seashore looking

_ for nesting Ridleys.

3 For the fisheries biologists who take

- care of the hatchlings each year, Tues-

= day was the satisfactory end to one
year of the project and the beginning of
another year of tedious care of the
ninth class of baby‘ turtles.

, “I'm relieved." said biologist Kathy

Indelicato. in her first year with the
Galveston program. “I feel really good
to be letting them out into the wild
again. where they belong."

The turtles will go from modified
trout food to a diet of blue crab.
shrimp, squid and other delicacies that
humans drool for, Indelicato said.

 

, “This is my first time. and it was
' pretty fun." said biologist David For-
cucci. the newest member of the Ridley
team. “They‘re doing their thing. fi-
nally."

 




DETROIT FREE PRESS - May 6, 1986

Detroit zoos give
star treatment to
species in danger

Recognize that face?

It’s not Bambi. And it’s not a white-tailed deer, one of
those shy and graCeful Creatures bounding and abounding in

the Michigan woods. This is a Formosan sika deer, consid-'

ered an endangered species. He and 15 others like him will
be the first stars of the Detroit Zoo’s “Animal of the Week"
program starting Sunday.

Each week for 13 weeks a different animal will be
spotlighted. Pictures and information about it will be posted
at all zoo entrances, andfree pictureswill be given to the
first 200 visitors to its exhibit each day, according to Terri
Doyle, marketing direCtor for the Detroit and Belle Isle zoos.

“The purpose of the program is to educate the public and
let people know the role of zoos in preserving and protect-
ing our endangered animals,” she said.

Although the Formosan sika deer looks a little like a
whitetail, the adult stands only two feet, 1 l inChes tall at the

shoulder —— much smaller than its North American cousin.-

Its light chestnut coat is marked with muCh larger white
spots than are seen on the whitetail.

The sika once was regarded as sacred and was proteCted'

under Japanesellaw, but its numbers have dwindled in the
past 40 years, chiefly because its natural habitat was
destroyed by urbanization, aCcording to Doyle. The deer is
native to eastern Siberia, Manchuria, northern China, Ko-
rea, Japan and Formosa.

At the Belle Isle zoo, a similar program begins Sunday
and will feature animals which are especially popular or
new to the zoo. The first, the gray wolf , happens to be on the
endangered list, too, according to Doyle.

While the gray wolf is not new to the zoo, it is popular
with zoo visitors, Doyle said. It can be found almost
anywhere in North AmeriCa and Europe but not in large
numbers. It is endangered everywhere in the United States
except Minnesota. There are two in the Belle Isle zoo. Large
displays will be set up at zoo entranCes, and free pictures of
the animal will be given to the first 50 visitors to its exhibit

every day, she said.
' - Nancy Dunn

 

 

HOUSTON CHRONICLE - May 8, 1986

 

 

 

N.‘ _.‘ .wvr" , r'
O ' '

.The Formosan sika deer, considered an endangered
'species, once was regarded as sacred and was protected

under Japanese law, but its numbers have dwindled in the
past 40 years.

 

 

 

 

 

' John Van Beekum / Chronicle

M’Kubwa (Mac) the gorilla, is one of 3,000
animals in the Houston Zoo’s permanent col-
lection who will greet visitors during 200
Week, which continues through Saturday.

Talk with animals
during Zoo Week

 

 

When to see the animals

Hours at both zoos are 10 am. to 5 pm. daily. At the
Detroit Zoo, admission is $3.50 for age 13 and up, $1.50
for ages 5-12 and $2 for age 62 and up. At the Belle Isle
no, ice is $2 per person for age 13 and older, 50 cents
for ages 5-12 and $1 for age 62 or over. Youngsters
under five are admitted free at both zoos. '

 

 

 

By MARGARET SEALY
Houston Chronicle

3 week to celebrate some of the city’s more un-
usual and exotic dwellers -— creatures at the

Houston Zoological Gardens.

EVERY YEAR in May, animal lovers join forces for

 

 

 




 

NATIONAL ENQUIRER - May 20, 1986

 

 

Discovery Days and Zoo Week, sponsored by organiza-
tions including the Zoo Docent Council, the Zoo Advisory
Board and Zoo Friends, boast events planned to help
introduce Houstonians to the world of thousands of ani-
mals who call Hermann Park home.

Booths with activities designed to strengthen the un-
derstanding between man and beast are set up 9:30 a.m.-
12:30 pm. today and Friday and 9:30 a.m.-3 p.m. Satur-
day in the grassy area in front of the Discovery Zoo
(formerly the Children’s Zoo), which is located in the
rear of the park. -

Louise Weis, education coordinator of the zoo, says
that they recently changed the name of this area to
encourage more adults to participate in activities of-
fered through the 200’s education office, which is head-
quartered in this portion of the zoo.

Members of the Zoo Docent Council will man the
Discovery Days booths, presenting educational pro-
grams and answering questions for visitors.

Participants will have the opportunity to touch and
examine the hides and skins of deer, raccoons and a
coyote, the skull of a lion and an armadillo skeleton.

Mounted specimens that are regularly used in the zoo
mobile program and other educational outreach pro-
grams offered through the Discovery Zoo will be fea-
tured in the Discovery Days booths.

A life-size mechanical brOwn pelican called “Mr.
Fisherman” will be touring the Discovery Zoo to answer
questions and talk about what it’s like to be an endan-
gered species.

Animal Olympics, games where children match their
skills against those of the animals, are also scheduled.

Animal puppet shows with stories on what animals
need to survive will be performed on the puppet stage in
the outdoor activity area of the Discovery Zoo.

An art exhibit, The Animal in Art, will beon view in
the Discovery Zoo area through the event.

Information and brochures on a variety of educational
programs offered this summer will be available.

The final day of Zoo Week is Saturday. Zoo adminis-
trators expect about 10,000 visitors each day during this
week. All activities are free, and admission to the zoo is
free. ‘

The entrance to the zoo is located at 1 Zoo Circle
Drive in Hermann Park. Hours are 9:30 a.m.—8 pm.
daily. Call 523-5888 for information.

ig friend, Billy, the orangu-

yed with by his b
ton, of Bristol Zoo in England.

.monke

 

H! I

"llll it‘ll ill

 

”4"
L
. i. ”i ."

’1
‘i

lilKnow How to Pick Up .cm

, .
Ill ’- .
' no) . , '
,. ,W‘w“ g
i A ,, h
I . i v
.1 . . 33‘ ' h
.‘pwyc " , . .- '
’ 3 V. ,
, 'h ‘_ '~ . , |
' . r. d t " i
H l ' 1 ' ‘ l
. " ﬂ
.
. ,. , a
L /
. . , , .
, . .
7 A" ' o ‘
j , , I,
A n .. - n
i is *' . -- . .
., 1 i I J . . , u , 1.
L . ,‘ . 4.
i ' \
i . «
l
u

“l’m not chicken of this big ope!" The odor-
oble boby chicken doesn’t seem to mind being

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Blessed Beasts

Charlotte, a female box turtle, wore a bit of pink gingham
ribbon and a leash Sunday when she was presented at
Tower Grove Park for a blessing of beasts and children by
St. John’s EpiscopalChurch, 3664 Arsenal Street. Amy

 

 

Robert LaRouche/Post-Dispatch :-

Taber (left) and Morgen Dehn, both 9, enjoy a close encoun-
ter with Charlotte before the Rev. Bud Ball takes over to give
the blessing to a collection of plants, animals, children and
other growing things.

 

U)
H
5
C2
l--l
U)
l-U
O
(fl
*3
U
i--l
%
'J>
§
I
’7‘
E
\<
00
l—-‘
L0
00
O\

 




 

 

 

HOUSTON CHRONICLE - May 7, 1986

V .‘ ' .' -
.3" "l , '8'

     

United Press International.-

Rat patrol

Grand Prairie Officer Don Swanz holds Fang, the rat-attack cat, in
the police station’s property room. The 20-pound Persian was
assigned to control the rat problem there, where rats had even
chewed through aluminum beer cans. Police say Fang has been
getting the job done since going on rat patrol six weeks ago.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Officer Robert Mercon of state’s Department of Fisheries and Wild4
life holds an emerald tree boa - one of five snakes seized by au-
“101' ities yesterday. Owner was unaware of Massachusetts law
that forbids possession of the reptiles either because they pose a

threat to human life or' the environment or a of an endangered spe-
cies. GLOBE STAFF PHOTO BY GEORGE RIZER

 

 




THE BOSTON GLOBE - May 12,

ED I TORIAL :

1986

Fulfilling the zoos’ promise

1 Decisions must be made in the coming

weeks about the future of metropolitan Bos-

ton’s zoos. The Dukakis administration and

. the Legislature must decide if they are willing
’ to provide the necessary funding and support;

'1

Tufts University must decide if it is willing to
undertake the challenge of operating the zoos

for the benefit of the entire community.

The decisions will determine whether the
zoos —— the Franklin Park Zoo and the Stone

- Zoo — can develop into first-class institutions

in which to study, and experience, wild ani-
mals, or will continue to struggle on as sec-
ond-class attractions.

The Stone Zoo attracts a half-million visi-
tors each year, mostly suburbanites. About
-l/lOth as many persons, most of them city

- residents, visit the Franklin Park Zoo.

The Stone Zoo is the more conventional at-
traction, with a crowd-pleasing menagerie —

' everything from a Siberian tiger to “a Califor-
’ nia sea lion.‘ A $13-million master plan calls
, :for expansion and upgrading.

The Franklin Park Zoo remains an unful—

" :filled promise because of haphazard manage—
- ,ment and stingy funding — symbolized by the

huge mounds of dirt excavated 12 years ago

1 for the still-uncompleted tropical-forest pavil-

ion and dumped in the middle of Frederick

‘ Law Olmsted’s noble greensward, called The
‘Greeting. '

A spruce Children’s Zoo is at the entrance
to the park, and the visitor willing to tramp
past the dirt mounds will find a fascinating

§ kaviary with dozens of birds thriving in natu-
. ral habitats. If fortunate enough to catch up

with zookeeper John Linehan, the visitor will
learn about endangered species that have

~ been successfully bred at Franklin Park — the

‘addax, an elegant and endangered antelope,
“plus bongos and zebras, all appearing ami-
able, if bored, in surroundings more appropri—

_‘ ate to an industrial warehouse.

Completion Of the tropical pavilion could

. establish-Franklin Park as a major center for

the preservation and study of major African
species, and for their display in attractive nat-

- .ural habitats.

Thwarting the promise of these zoos is the

divided management authority shared by the
Metropolitan District Commission and the
Boston Zoological Society -— and the accident of
history that has decided Boston must have a
city 200 and a suburban zoo. The situation
has inspired little public confidence, and the
zoos have seemed an unwise investment of ,
public funds. ~

Last fall, MDC Commissioner William
Geary decided to obtain a new and unified
management — with the professional eXper-
ience that the MDC and the 828 lack. Geary
visited major zoos; the Philadelphia Zoo ex-
pressed an interest in either managing the
zoos under contract to the MDC, or in doing
the planning necessary to enable another
qualified institution to take them over. .

With the backing of Governor Dukakis-
Tufts University has now indicated an inter-
est in taking over management of the zoos
through its. veterinary school, whose dean,
Franklin Loew, is also chairman of the BZS
board. The Tufts board of trustees will consid-
er the matter later this month. 7

This is not just an interesting idea - or a
way of passing the buck on a failed public en-
terprise to an unwary private institution. Re-
alistically, the Tufts Offer provides the last
chance for Boston to have first—class zoos.

Tufts must have assurances that adequate
public funding will be available. The zoos now
receive $2 million from the state, but need at
least $7 million. Loew has said that if there is
not a commitment to adequate funding, “we
should make the decision to get out of the zoo
business altogether.” _

If Tufts decides to take on the zoo manage—
ment, the Legislature will be asked to fund
preliminary planning — not a study to deter—
mine whether Boston will have a zoo, but one
to draft operation and management plans.

Dukakis and the Legislature must clearly
understand that approval of this planning
money represents a commitment to major
operational funding two or three years from
now. If they do not want to make that commit—'
ment, they should come forward now and tell
the public to forget about having first-class
zoos - or perhaps any zoos at all — in Boston.

 

 




 

HOUSTON CHRONICLE - May 8, 1986

 

 

 

 

 

..

' p a gum tree

- ' A koala, Australia’s best-loved symbol, clings to the fork of

_ Steve Ueckert / Chronicle ' a cum free. Wildlife officials say a venereal disease is

ravoalno koala colonies, severe enough. according to one
expert. to lead to the animal’s extinction within 20 years.

 

 

 

 

Houston Zoo docent Joanie Belk introduces a believin ' '
. . . . . 9 that the creature Belk was holdln
ggsnbeglﬁgggﬁaﬁzs Brickhouse. 4. to an Amen- would grow as large as the large ones mag: T i i E 1- l
. youngster had a hard time gaze menacingly from a pond in the zoo ' W n g raffes bum at “g 13h safari park ' l
' WARMINSTER, England (AP) - A captivity. a park spokesman said. j
giraffe at the Longleat Safari Park in The 6-foot calves. one male and one
' southwest. England has given birth to female, were found Wednesday, said
twins. believed to be the first born in spokesman Ian Small.

 

 

 
 
 




the atlanta journal - May 16, 1986

Jon Coe is setting
free the animals

By 80 Emerson
Staff Writer

 

 

Jon Coe. a student at Harvard‘s landscape archi-
tecture school. stood in the elephant house and
clenched his fists.

He had come to the Franklin Park Zoo in Boston
to draw elephants for an art class. What he saw were
three grown elephants trying to kill each other, held
apart by strong chains.

“Why are the elephants fighting?" he asked an at-
tendant.

"Because they're chained up."

"But why are they chained up?"

“Because they‘re fighting."

Coe was enraged. He knew there was a better
way. and be resolved to find it.

Twenty years later Coe has become one of the
country’s best architects of natural habitats. building
zoos designed around the laws of animal behavior.

with invisible bar—
riers and native vegetation. In a
2" very real sense, he has broken those
£2 chains and set the animals free.

the animals free.

-2 In the coming years Coe’s plans
;l__fwill do the same for the Atlanta-
; Fulton County Zoo (or Zoo Atlanta),
transforming an arid, urban, con-
crete-girded facility into a lush
; necklace of bioclimates, from the

‘ swamps of Okefenokee to the jun-

gles of Cameroon.
‘7' The Philadelphia landscape ar-
’” ‘chitect steps in at a time when Zoo ,1
Atlanta is rising from the ashes. Ne- '
‘ glected for years, the zoo suffered
from mismanagement and lack of
funds. Public outrage reached a cri-

. sis two years ago as zoo animals
died mysteriously, and surviving an- ;
imals suffered from inadequate vet- “j
. erinary care and shoddy facilities. '

But Coe, a stocky 45-year-old
with a Paul Bunyan beard, says oth—
er zoos that he has redesigned, in— 3-
:cluding those in Pittsburgh and Se-
attle, were also rescued from
2 similar problems. “-‘
. , “The only zoos we’ve been in- .l
evolved with are zoos that hit bot-
tom, like Atlanta,” Coe says. “They -
hit bottom and bounced back up
again. Atlanta got caught with their
pants down, and that hurt.”

Coe and his partner Gary Lee
have created a $25 million, 8-year
master plan to transform what was
rated as one of the country’s 10
worst zoos into a showpiece.

WORKING FOR THE ANIMALS: Jon Coe is one of the country

The first step in that process

will be the creation of the $5.7 mil-
‘ lion Gorillas of Cameroon exhibit.
2 The Yerkes Primate Center of
Emory University has agreed to
2 loan 17 gorillas and about 12 orang-
utans for this habitat, which will be-

come by far the largest exhibit of

2; apes in this country.

For this project the manicured,

slaping lawn in front of the lion
.‘house will be transformed into a
West African jungle. Pursuing this
_;task, Coe and Lee travel to Atlanta
2gfrequently, researching horticulture,
examining the zoo grounds, noting
Twhat will be saved and what will be
:expended.

On a recent visit, Coe walked

through the children’s zoo with zoo

director Dr. Terry Maple and Ken

_ Gould of Yerkes, while young teach-
ers strove to control platoons of
shrieking pre-schoolers.

“How about a creek right here

to provide a little white noise to

mask the sounds of the children?”
Coe suggests. Maple approves. While

Maple instructs a young boy not to
«kick the billygoat, Coe scratches a
' llama on the head, and points out a
healthy stand of poison ivy that
,_, probably won’t be included in the
new exhibit.

The next day he combs through

,§the Atlanta Botanical Garden,

searching for native plants that re-

. semble African vegetation. Coe re-
' cently traveled to Africa with Ma-

ple and others to research the

landscape and habitats he planned
to duplicate.
" “6% g?“ 3‘: 2.... “'5..-

'-.f'.' “

Relaxing over a mug at the Ex-

- celsior Mill one evening, Coe talks
. about the animal-human relation-
, ship, and why people like zoos.

“There is some kind of magic

between peeple and animals,” Coe

says. “I don’t want to get into a re-
ligious discussion on this, but peOple
are animals too For a large
percentage of our existence we have
had to be exceedingly aware of ani-

mals. Either we ate them, or they

ate us.”

Since natural selection favored
humans sensitive to the animals
around them, all humans still have

; this sensitivity in their genetic heri-

tage, Coe says. Contact with ani-

mals, then, satisfies a deep, atavis-

tic urge. “I use this to explain the

' fact that pet food is a billion dollar

industry,” he says.
An encounter with a tame-

pussycat is nothing like an encoun-
r ter in the wild, which is why peOple
. hunt, hike, and go to zoos. What Coe

.. tries to do with his exhibits is re-en-

 

 

BILLY DOWNS/Staff

’s best architects of natural habitats.

 

 




act, as perfectly as possible, the ex-
perience of wildness.

He does this by removing the
cues of civilization, eliminating con-
crete paths, hiding buildings behind
earthen berms or vegetation, replac-
ing clipped grass with undergrowth,

concealing service roads and vehi-

cles.

In addition, he manipulates the
feelings of the visitor by placing the
animal in a physically higher posi-
tion than the human, and by making
the exhibit’s barriers invisible. The
observer, wandering through the
woods, hears a roar behind a tree,
turns a corner, comes face to face
with a lioness sunning on a rock.
The moat between the two cannot
be seen.

“We can design exhibits that lit-
erally make the hair stand up on
the back of your neck,” he says. “It
gets right to your survival sense,
heightens your sense, you become
suddenly more aware of your envi-
ronment and suddenly you’re alive
in a way that you never have been
before. Of course, we can’t assume
that the lion is going to roar on
cue.” But even a taped lion will do,
with speakers hidden in the rocks.

This style is a drastic departure
from the Victorian concept of the
zoo as a display of animal oddities.
Atlanta’s sterile cages embody this
“hard” approach, in which the ani-
mal is treated as alien and uncon-
nected with it’s environment.

Dr. Hank Klein, director of pub-
lic information at the Woodland
Park Zoo in Seattle, says, “In the
vast majority of these cases ani-
mals express many more natural
behaviors, and are more likely to
breed in this context.”

As a member of the Seattle
firm Jones & Jones, Coe helped re-
design Woodland Park in the late
1970s, turning it into one of the na-
tion’s best natural habitat zoos.

Bucking the conventional ap-
proach, be combined species within
exhibits, creating compact “biocli-
mates,” so that giraffes and zebras
browse together, while lions watch
from nearby rocks, as they did back
home in the African savannah.
Predator, prey and visitors are sep-
arated by hidden moats.

Meeting Coe, it seems he under-
stands animals well because of an
overt kinship. His chest-length beard
gives him the aspect of a grizzly,
coming out of hibernation. -

In keeping with that image, Coe
dislikes the other trappings of civili-
zation — rider lawnmowers, neck-
ties, fancy suits and academic hair-
splitting. He describes his Harvard

peers as obsessed with counting the ,

angels on the head of a pin.

 

 

After completing a thesis on 200
design and animal behavior, Coe
joined the Peace Corps. He worked
in the slums of Brazil for two years,
then toured South America on a
Harvard fellowship for seven
months.

Returning to North America, he
joined a firm in Calgary, Alberta,
and immediately began work on
zoos. '

He met Terry Maple through
one of many national conferences
on zoological parks and animal be-
havior. Around six years ago Maple
invited Coe to address a Georgia
Tech class on animal behavior. Dur-
ing a break in the visit, Maple de-
scribed his scheme to create a habi-
tat for the Yerkes apes.

In 90 minutes Coe drew a rough
plan, and the project has been

revving in Coe’s mind since then.

When he’s not commuting to At-
lanta, Coe teaches a design class at
the University of Pennsylvania and
says he is slowly transforming his
front lawn into a forest.

He also does not intend to cut
his 20-year-old beard.

“You know women will tell me,
‘If you shaved your beard you’d look
10 years younger.’ Well I’ve worked
all my life to get to this age. Why
should I want to look any other
age?

“I’m expressing my genetic her-’
itage," he says, in a mild parody of
his atavistic theories. “1 have genes
that grow hair.”

 

 




 

 

 

'IliE ATLANTA JOURNAL
May 16‘, 1986

 

 

 

 

 

AGING: Willie B. today (left) and at 2V2 years old.

Willie B. celebrates

25 years in Atlanta .

By 80 Emerson
Staff Writer

 

 

For such a 'wild man, he’s led a pretty sheltered life.
Since he was kidnapped from his home in Africa, Wil-
lie B. has only been outside his cage once. and that was by
accident.
.; He’s never had a date or walked barefoot in the grass.
He’s never mated. He‘s never even met another gorilla.
Yet Willie has become a star of sorts. feted by his fans. ac~
knowledged by Walter Cronkite and quoted by the National Enquir-
er. On Saturday. Willie will be the guest of honor at a party for
3.000.- Whether such fanfare matters to this fingerpainting ape. he
won’t say.
He’ll be too busy with his quarter-ton birthday cake.
Yes. it’s Willie B.‘s birthday. or close enough. Nobody knows when

 

 

 




 

the big guy was born, but he was
about 3 years old when he was
brought here in 1961. He’s 28 now

and the star of Zoo Atlanta, where ‘

he arrived 25 years ago this month.
. Consequently, the zoo and the
Ford Motor Co. are putting on the
dog for Willie. This Saturday, they
will provide a free day at the zoo,
including a concert by Banks and
Shane, clowns, mimes, jugglers, a
giant birthday card, free cake and
other fine things.

Willie will nosh on a confection
made especially for him by Chef
Brandyet Williams of the downtown
Ramada Inn. Willie’s all-natural

“cake” will contain 150, pounds of
' oranges, 90 pounds of zucchini, 90
pounds of yellow squash, 50 pounds
of bananas, 60 pounds of strawber-
ries, 50 pounds each of honeydew
and cantaloupe and will be crowned
with 25 stalks of bamboo for can-
dles. Willie only gets a lO-pound
slice however, and must share the
rest with his guests. The humans
will also eat sheet cake.

Does a gorilla care about bal-
loons and pointy hats? According to
Curator Dietrich Schaaf, “One of
the dangers is the tendency to an-
thropomorphize.” Which means to

pretend that gorillas think like hu-_

mans.

But that’s easy to do with an
ape like Willie, who watches televi-
sion and likes to run short races
with the female zoo docents when
they traipse through the primate
house. His closest friend is Charles
Horton, his keeper for 12 years.

Horton supplies paper and non-
toxic paints, and Willie fingerpaints.
Standing safely outside the cage,
Horton holds a cup of orange juice
for the big ape while Willie drinks.
The two share an occasional stalk
of sugar cane. Willie lies on his
back and pokes his toes out between
the bars for Horton to tickle.

And Horton knows what makes
Willie scared — lawn mowers, loud
noises and big men. Willie some-
times beats his chest when the siz-
able zoo director, Dr. Terry Maple,
appears on the other side of his
glass-and-iron wall. “He’s just like a
little kid hearing things go bump in
the night,” said Horton. A 450-pound
little kid. (The kid escaped from his
cell once, slightly injuring another
keeper before being returned quietly
to his berth.)

Willie has a notable lineage, be-
ing the second great ape to be
named for preeminent Atlanta May-
or ¥;:'illiam Berry Hartsfield. The
firs: Willie B. was brought to Atlan-
ta i"=¢:ptember 1959, and was dis-
ting, . ed as the only ape to run for
ConEress.

Backed by the wily Hartsfield,
Willie I garnered 663 votes against
‘ Rep. James C. Davis as a write-in
candidate for the 5th District con-
gressional seat. Davis, who had no
human Opposition, was not amused.
Willie I died in April 1961, of bron-
chial pneumonia, and was buried at
the city prison farm.

Willie II arrived May 8 of that
year, brought from either French
Cameroon or Nigeria. Some years
later, he was given a television set,

associated with in the national
mind. When the TV was stolen by a
city employee, at least a dozen sets
were donated to replace the missing

 

.-“;. "*:"'."'

HAPPY 14th! Willie B. checks
out his exotic carrot cake in this
1973 photo.

Word spread about this couch
potato primate. Cronkite mentioned
Willie’s viewing habits on national
news. Willie was “interviewed” on
“Real People.” The National En-

. quirer, h0ping to learn Willie’s pro-

gramming preferences, brought vid-
eo tapes and three televisions to
Willie’s den, and played prime-time
network shows. A reporter sat and
tallied Willie’s viewing habits, and
printed a “gorilla poll.”
“‘M‘A‘S‘H’ was No. 1,” said Hor-
ton. “But that was a spurious re-
sult,” Schaaf quickly added.”

Willie eventually lost interest in
the television, and Maple removed
it when he was appointed director
two years ago.

Television is not enough, said
Maple. Willie needs something more
than a comfortable cell and soap
operas, and he will get it. Included
in a $25 million-plan for improve-
ments to the zoo is a place in the
sun for Willie.

an appliance that he would soon be

Scheduled to Open in 1987, the
great ape exhibit is the first major
step in an overhaul of the aging
Grant Park attraction. It will dis-
play gorillas, gibbons and orang»
utans in a natural, outdoor habitat

The irony, according to Maple,
is that “in all likelihood, he’s not goo
ing to really like his new habitat at
first.” Old and set in his ways, Wil-
lie will distrust the new environ-

» ment.

An additional irony: Freed to
the outdoors for the first time in.a
quarter-century, Willie B. will still
be alone. He will have his own ex-
hibit, because after his isolation, he
has developed no social skills and
would probably be hostile to other
gorillas. .

But he will be able to see his
neighbors. Once he’s grown accus-
tomed to the new surroundings, he
will be given a chance to interact
with his own species - first .by
touching through the bars of holding
cells, then through direct contact.
“We would have to be certain that
there was a good chance of him in-
teracting in a positive way,” Maple
said.

He might be given an opportuni-
ty to mate. But having been raised
by humans, Willie won’t know much
about the book of love. Once he
learns, he still might decline the
dance. Said Maple, “He may choose
to be a bachelor the rest of his
life.”

For information on obtaining
free passes to Willie’s birthday,
available at Ford automobile deal-
erships, call Zoo Atlanta at 624-
5600.

 




A group of animal ri

ghts acti

V!

O

 

sts holds a banner
out of a window at the National Institute of

Health i
ml

0

n Bethesda

.Md

'1

ect last year. Scienti

to protest a research
sts using animals as

vadi

research subj
ng thei

ects say a cli
r once serene acad

em:

mate of f

art

Asso
C W

’v

I
a

L.

|

.6:

 

ll“ lS per-
m

c
I

ted Press

 

 

 




J...

McArdle said that the compromise. in fact. had been
reached between Harvard and other universities. on the
one hand. and a coalition of animal groups on the other.
But. he said. the coalition ended when the governor signed
the bill, so each group in the coalition again was free to
pursue its own individual goals. The group that placed the
ad. the New England Anti-Vivisection Society, thus was no
longer bound by the compromise.

While many researchers find these and similar tactics
disheartening, they say they are encouraged by recent
public opinion polls that show that 75 percent of those
questioned favor the continuation of animal research. But
they are upset by the growing credence given to anti-
vivisectionists’ charges -— which they say are dishonest -
of animal torture in scientific labs.

A few researchers have taken the trouble to analyze and
systematically rebut the activists’ claims. Psychologist
Neal E. Miller of Rockefeller University. for example. has
analyzed the statement by the activist group Mobilization
for Animals (MFA), which alleged that “the tools of the
experimental psychologist are mutilation, castration, ag-
ony, starvation and insanity.” 1

Miller says he reviewed every article published in key
experimental-psychology journals over a five-year period.
Contrary to MFA’s specific accusations, he said he found
no experiments in which animals were given intense, re-
peated electric shocks which they could not escape. He
found none in which animals were denied food and water
and allowed to die slowly of hunger and thirst.

There were no experiments in which animals were put in
total isolation chambers until they were driven “insane" or
died. Miller reported in a technical journal. Nor were there
any experiments in which animals were crushed. smashed
or driven insane. ‘

Miller concluded that animal activists’ tactics were to
“suggest the false. and suppress the true.” for the purpose

of “misleading humane peOple."

 




.‘.

HOUSTON CHRONICLE - May 5, 1986

Animal rights groups breed fear

 

By DAVID R. ZIMMERMAN
Newsday '

 

Animal Day turned out to be a day of peaceful
. demonstrations despite the arrest of almost 100
persons staging sit-ins at various facilities around the
country, scientists using animals as research subjects say a
climaite of fear is pervading their once serene academic
worl .

During the past several years, these researchers say. the
debate over the use of animals in scientific experiments
has degenerated from polite discussion to increasingly an-
gry demonstrations by animal-rights groups, and raids on
laboratories have become more common and more de-
structive. Additionally, researchers at a number of institu-
tions around the country say they have been verbally at-
tacked with increasing viciousness. Some researchers say
they have even received death threats. ‘

The resulting climate of fear, the researchers say,
threatens to have a long-term effect on the quality and
quantity of medical and scientific progress in the nation’s
laboratories for decades to come. '

“Without any question, they have hindered biomedical
research and, in many instances, quite directly by destroy-
ing equipment and records and other criminal activities,”
physiologist Richard L. Malvin, PhD, of the University of
Michigan Medical School in Ann Arbor said recently by

hone. '
p “A continuation of this could only result in a severe
diminution of medical research,” he continued, “and a re-
duction in the health and well-being of our citizens, both in
the short and long term.” .

Representatives of Pe0ple for the Ethical Treatment of
Animals (PETA), which claims to be a public front for the
militant Animal Liberation Front (ALF), say that animal
studies are not necessary, and if experiments must be done,
most can be conducted directly on humans.

The ALF, an underground group, claims responsibility
for many break-ins, thefts of animals and destruction of
labs and data. Less radical organizations, such as the Hu-
mane Society of the United States and the Fund for Ani-
mals, approve of “clinical” studies that would test experi-
mental therapies on animals that became ill naturally.
Such experiments, however, would be scientifically useless.

Most biomedical researchers hold a view diametrically
Opposed to that of the animals’ protectors, although many
researchers would acknowledge there have certainly been,
and continue to be, examples of laboratory animals being
unnecessarily abused. But as Dr. James Wyngaarten, direc-
tor of the National Institutes of Health, said in a recent
telephone interview, “Every thinking group that has looked
at the use of animals in research has come to the conclu-
sion that they are absolutely necessary for progress in
health-related research and also for appr0priate assur-
ances of safety for biological products.” The research com-
munity and the animal-rights activists do agree on at least
one key point:

The main issue today is not dirty cages or the humane
care of animals during experiments. It is, rather, that the
goal of many of the more radical individuals who claim
they are the driving force of the animal-rights movement
is to halt all animal research - as well as all use of
animals for human food and clothing. ‘

Leaders of the research community say, ruefully. that
for far too long they remained silent in the face of mount-
ing attacks on what they view as the vitally necessary use
of animals in research.

NEW YORK — While the recent National Laboratory

among researchers

Dr. David J. Ramsay, senior Vice chancellor for aca-
demic affairs at the University of California at San Fran-
cisco, said in a recent telephone interview: “I think one of
C the problems was that for many years the medical re-
'search community would not speak out on this issue. So we
“ were not taking a very active role in letting the public
‘ know what biomedical research is really about."

 

lOne legitimate goal of the
movement was to eliminate
completely the exploitation of all
animals for food, sport,tor fashion
and especially for research.’

- An anonymous scientist reporting on a meeting of the
Animal Rights Coalition

 

In Boston, Harvard physiologist Dr. A. Clifford Barger
1 "added, “We thought the public understood so well that all

of this (medical progress) has been done as the result of
animal experimentation that we let our guard down.”

Barger aside, many illustrious physicians and scientists
have yet to speak out, and their silence is demoralizing to
their younger, less-established colleagues, many of whom
feel quite threatened by the animal activists.

Fear of psychological and physical harassment appears
to be widespread in research universities. When a public
relations person for one major Midwestern university re-
cently was asked who could discuss the animal activists’
effect on researchers there, she replied, “No one. They’re
scared to death. They’re not saying anything.”

Echoed Frankie L. Trull, president of the Foundation for

_ Biomedical Research, a lobbying organization in Washing-

ton, D.C., that was set up to defend scientific research:
“There is a lot of intimidation. There has been a significant

. amount of violence and threats of violence, and there is a

significant number of researchers who are threatened, and
whose work is threatened.”

For example:
0 Almost every one of more than a dozen researchers

, interviewed by Newsday said that whenever his or her

i
5.
i
r

name was published in a newspaper in defense of scien-
tists’ right to continue their research, he/she received
threatening phone calls and letters.

0 In a raid last year, the ALF stole hundreds of animals.

‘ _ “A- _ -.‘..___.__ _

including a baby stump-tailedimacaque monke and van-
dalized laboratories at the University of Califoryn’ia at Riv-
erSide, causmg more than $600,000 in damage, according to

university officials. Work was interrupted, and magnetic
tapes containing several years worth of one researcher’s
data were destroyed. Then PETA prompted NIH to con-
duct a major investigation of alleged abuses at the facility
.._ charges, NIH determined, which were unfounded.

O. The Britishjournal Nature reported last year that Dr.
A.R. Moossa, chief surgeon at the University of California
School of Medicme at San Diego. canceled a seminar on

 




surgical-stapling techniques in life-saving Operations. He
had planned to use 36 anesthetized dogsnwhich would be
put to death after the operation. According to Nature. a
man had phoned the office of the surgeon and. speaking to
an associate, threatened to put a “bullet in (Moossa‘s)
head“ if he didn‘t “stop the thing with the dogs." ,

0 When psychologist Frederick A. King, president of the
Yerkes Regional Primate Research Center at Emory Uni-
versity in Atlanta, appeared on a talk show in Washington.
D.C., last year. a crowd formed outside the station, with
many persons shouting. “We will get you!.” King said. "One
young lady stuck her head in the cab window and spit in
my face."

0 Dr. Julius Krevans, chancellor of the University of
California at San Francisco, said in a telephone interview
that his life has been threatened because he speaks out for
the use of animals in research.

0 Biologist Karon M. Hiiemae, vice chancellor for re-
search at the University of Illinois in Chicago. said she had
had “some pretty obscene phone calls” after testifying
before the Chicago City Council on bills related to the use
of animals as test subjects. “Everytime this heats up, I put
on the phone machine,” she added.

The researchers’ fears can be confirmed by the anti-
vivisectionist press. The January—February issue of a pub-
lication called The Animals’ Agenda contains an Opinion
piece by a woman identified as Vicki Miller, who is associ-
ated with an animal activist group in Toronto. Miller
writes: 1

“I believe this decade will see the first acts of true
violence. Some may be accidental ‘-— like a bystander
killed in a bomb blast; some will be deliberate — like a
vivisector killed in the street.”

The PETA executive director. Ingrid Newkirk, said in a
phone interview from Washington, D.C., that the hate mail
and threats are not “a one-sided situation.” She said she
and her associates “routinely” receive threatening letters,
bricks and dead animals and organs in the mail. She added,
“We have received not only letters, but we’ve had to report
to the police threatening phone calls we’ve received, life-
threatening phone calls.”

Each side in the conflict monitors the other‘s major
gatherings. Animal activists say they long have attended
researchers’ meetings. They say they also have on occasion
gotten jobs in research facilities, which they have then
targeted for raids, PETA spokeswoman Lori Gruen said
from Washington.

The biomedical community now is tracking deveIOp-
ments in the animal activist movement. One scientist anon-
ymously attended two recent activists’ meetings. Summa-
ries of the meetings have been circulated in the research
community under memos from the American Association
of Medical Colleges (AAMC), the National Institute of Men-
tal Health, the Association of American Universities and

the California Biomedical Research Association. _

One such report describes a meeting last September in
St. Paul. Minn, of an umbrella group called the Animal
Rights Coalition (ARC). The conferees included delegates
from the Fund for Animals, as well as from PETA. '

The anonymous scientist reported of the ARC meeting:
“There was little discussion about, or interest in issues of
legislative reform, new NIH (animal care) guidelines, or
pet-related issues. The major theme endorsed by the speak-
ers and accepted by the delegates is that the one legitimate
goal of the movement was to eliminate completely the
exploitation of all animals for food. sport, for fashion and
especially for research. . . .

“The (conferees‘) were confident that as the movement
grows in numbers and in strength it will continue to evolve
towards an uncompromising anti~vivisectionist-vegetarian
philosophy."

The conference participants indicated. with their ap-
plause, their views on the use of violence to achieve these

ends. the observer reported. A speaker. Donald J. Barnes.
who is director of the National Anti-Vivisection Society in
Washington, D.C., disapproved of vandalism and destruc-
tion of property and won only “moderate applause." the
report said. But a PETA speaker who said it was “moral“
to destroy “instruments of torture and extremely effective
to create economic hardship by damaging the prOperty of
animal exploiters" received “very heavy applause” for her
position. according to the report.

PETA spokeswoman Gruen. who was copresenter of the

ALF position, said that the biomedical spy‘s account is
accurate.

Some people. Barnes said in a recent phone interview.
approached him afterwards to support his non-violent
stance. But. he said, “they were a little frightened to do
that in public. They didn’t want to be unpOpular with the
mainstream thought,” which, he said, is the ALF’s philoso-

_.phy, that the end justifies the means. “It’s a wave within

the (animal-rights) movement,” he said, “a very powerful
one.”

The ARC describes itself in one of its published bro-

chures as “a grass-roots animal-rights organization

dedicated to the total elimination of animal abuse and

exploitation . . . (in) the areas of biomedical and psycholog-

ical research, food production, product testing and enter-
tainment.”

The spy’s report on the ARC conference points to a
second major agreement between the biomedical research
community and the anti-vivisectionists: that the demon-

'strations, break-ins and threatening phone calls and letters

are creating a “climate of fear in the research commu-
nity,” as an ARC speaker reportedly said.

“I’m sure they are,” agreed PETA director Newkirk.
But, she added, the researchers’ concern is "a cheap little
distraction" from the main issue — their mistreatment of
animals.

The scientists are accusing some animal-rights activists
of using deception and trickery in their attempts to stop
research involving animals. In fact. the reports being cir-
culated in the research community make it appear that at
least some of the pro-animal groups condone lying as an
acceptable tactic. Anatomist John McArdle, a Humane
Society specialist on lab animals’ well-being, discussing
tactics to prod legislatures into passing laws that forbid .
animal shelters to sell or donate unwanted animals to
research. is quoted in the notes taken at the ARC meeting

as saying: .

“‘Never appear to be Opposed to animal research. Re— '
searchers will claim that (our) campaigns are an-
ti—research. that their true aim is to end all animal re-
search. Do'not play into their hands; claim your concern is
only about the source of the animal used.”

But the notes on his talk continue:

“After a successful . . . campaign. groups can then work
to pass other laws eliminating various kinds of animal
research.”

McArdle specifically denied, in writing, that the last
sentence represents his view.

This sentence does, however, describe just what trans-
pircd in Massachusetts, in a conflict that initially was
focused on the issue Of using shelter dogs for research.
Scientists and their universities ~ particularly Harvard ~
agreed to a compromise with anti-vivisectionists. accord-
ing to Harvard physiologist Barger: They agreed. he said.
that the scientists would not oppose a bill ending the sale of
dogs in shelters to the universities. In return, the anti-
vivisectionists would not push for further curbs on animal
research. . _

“The day after the governor signed the bill." Barger said.
anti-vivisectionists and their supporters placed large ads in
the'newspapers saying. “We‘ve won the battle ~ now help
us win the war."

 




 

 

 

Here’s to the mothers who protect their pups.
coddle their cubs and coo their kids. Bonnie Gan-
gelhoff learns about motherly love in some of the
Houston Zoo's most popular families. 5

Cover photo by Ira Strickstein

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

‘ w

 

 

 

 

 

 

EGN E MGEHGE

, ._, A; ,
r , .,.. Mi

Me Thai and baby Beau “Bopper” Thai, in the above
photo, share a close, loving, mother-and-son relationship.

Every beetle is a gazelle in
the eyes of its mother.
— MOORISH PROVERB

ome have faces only

a mother could love.

Take the baby fruit

bats or the neonatal
rattlesnakes. One has a mouth
full of fangs; the other a head
full of scales.

Cast them in horror ﬂicks,
you say. Make them into de-
signer belts.

But hold your horses.

To mommy fruit bat and
big mama rattler these bun-
dles of black beady eyes are
just precious little lambie
pies. Mother love, after all, is
as blind as a you know
what. "

On Mother’s Day we honor
such selﬂess devotion among
humans but often overlook the
dedication of our local zoo
moms. Recently we paid a
visit to the Houston Zoo to fer-
ret out these unsung heroines.

One thing we found was
that zoos have changed a lot
in the past decade. Breeding
has become part of the 200
business more than ever be-
fore.

“Back in olden times if you
lost an animal, no big deal.
We just went out and collected
another one,” explains Terry

 

Blasdel, zoo veterinarian and
curator of research.

“But as (human) popula-
tion grew it encroached on
wild habitats. Now there are
fewer and fewer animals to
take. Finally we got to a point
where animals in collections
are becoming extinct.”

The Houston Zoo, like oth-
ers around the country, is in-
volved in very active propa-
gation programs, Blasdel
says. City zoos frequently
trade animals.

In 1984 the Los Angeles Zoo
sent a cute Malayan giant
squirrel named Cecilia here to
meet Cecil, a Houston-based
bachelor squirrel. The mail-
order bride from LA. and the
Bayou City bachelor fell for
each other.

One year later Cecil and Ce-
cilia gave birth to Camilia.
Today they all live together in
the small mammal house. “As
far as we know, we’re the first
ones in North America to
breed a Malayan squirrel,”
says zookeeper Lynn Killem.

Then there’s the story of
Tilley and Jesmus, the chee~
tabs. The male and female
cats, both about 12 years old,
have been together since

 

Photo by King Chou Wong
birth. Cheetahs don’t breed
well in captivity and this pair
is no exception.

Tilley and Jesmus think
they are brother and sister.
As Blasdel says, “they never
developed proper behavior
cues to get them into a repro-
ductive mode.”

But not to worry. This is the
age of biotechnology. Recent-
ly zookeepers placed a hor-
mone pump under Tilley’s
skin near her shoulder. The
pump gradually releases a
hormone substance which
stimulates the reproductive
system. If it works as well as
it did recently with cheetahs
in San Diego, the zookeepers
see baby cubs on the horizon
for Houston.

For some zoo mothers, it’s
been a hard year. Take Phae-
dra, the sea lion. Lately her
life has been unspooling like a
TV soap opera. ﬁrst, she lost
her baby when it drowned in
the pool at the zoo entrance.
Then, several months ago her
mate, Eros, died of congenital
heart failure.

But zookeepers say Phae-
dra’s luck may be changing.
She has gained a few pounds
recently. The widow appears
to be expecting a baby which

Continued on next page

 

 




 

is possible since Eros was in
good health before he died.

“She’s a social animal, and
it’s not natural for her to be
by herself. So naturally we
are hoping for a baby,” says
Killem. .

Phaedra is in a clinic far
from the madding crowd
which usually surrounds her
pool. If she is pregnant her
due date is late May, the nor-
mal breeding season for sea
' lions. Before returning to her
regular home at the zoo en-
trance, the single mom will
teach her baby how to swim in
a private water baby class.

Some mothers lead the life
of Riley by comparison. Take
the brown chachalaca chick-
ens. They regularly lay eggs
but never have to sit on them.

Zookeepers pick up the red
chachalaca eggs and deposit
them in the white silkie chick-
en cage. The white silkie sur-
rogate moms sit on eggs for
two weeks to a month. “The
white silkies are real good sit-
ters,” notes zookeeper Ro-
chelle Plasse.

Indeed at the Houston Zoo
there are surrogate moms and
single moms, loving moms
and reluctant moms. Some
have young ones going
through the “terrible twos.”
Others put up with cranky
mates.

Like the Houston popula-
tion, these moms come from
all over the world including
South America, Africa, and
Asia. They come in all shapes,
sizes and colors. There are
pinheads and skinheads.
Hairy heads and fatheads.
There are lightweights and
heavyweights. Sure-footed
and web-footed.

And lately they all seem
busy not only breeding, but
prancing around for the pub-
lic. Bad economic times seem
to be propelling hordes of
Houstonians and armies of
strollers to the 200.

This March, 311,000 humans
came to look at the animals at
the Houston Zoo, almost three
times as many people as came
in March 1980.

Some 200 families grow
tired of their daily public rela-
tions jobs.

The Wallabies: Down, Un-
der and baby Joey, nestled in
Under’s pouch, frequently
grow distressed when crowds
swarm outside their home at
the Children’s Zoo. Zoo-
keepers say the Wallabies hop
away from the hordes and
hide.

LucilleSweeney, zookeeper
for the elephants, notes that
even her thick-skinned ele-
phants react to busy periods.
After “working the crowds”
111 day, Thai, the male ele-
phant, will dig up his pen in

 

 

 

an effort to protect the area
where his mate Me Thai and
baby Beau Thai live. “After
he has been stressed out,
there is more debris lying
around. Sometimes he uses
his tusks to dig up the con-
crete,” notes Sweeney.

But it’s a living — room,
board and even maternity
leave for those who need it.
Here are some favorite zoo
moms and their families.
Thanks to their keepers who
helped us select creatures
with a, uh, certain animal
magnetism.

The Titi family
Fred, 12, Ethel, 12, Coco, 3,
Patrick, 2, and baby Mickey.

Fred and Ethel trace their
roots back to South America.
The brown-haired primates
are the proud parents of Coco,
3, Patrick, 2, and new baby
Mickey.

In some ways they are just
the typical trendy urban
family next door. Fred will-
ingly pitches in with child
care, frequently carrying
Mickey on his back for hours.
This gives Ethel “space” and
time to do her own thing.
Fred’s behavior is typical for
Titi fathers.

“They are very good par-
ents. “He (Fred) moves slow-
ly and cautiously with the
baby on his back,” notes zoo—
keeper Killem.

When Ethel is ready to
nurse, she grabs the newborn
from her mate. When baby
Mickey is finished nursing he
climbs back onto his dad’s
back.

 

1 Photo by King
Much like the typical trendy urban family are The Titis. Fred, the father,
willingly pitches in caring for baby Mickey, shown in this photo.

Mickey was a surprise baby
for the two elderly Titis. But
their zookeeper explains Fred
and Ethel are in very good
shape for geriatrics.

“They are doing so well.
But we are surprised every-
time they have a baby,” says
Killem.

About the only problem in
the Titi household is sibling
rivalry. The crowded condi-
tions in the cage sometimes
bring out the worst in young
Titis. Worried that Coco and
Patrick might harass Mickey,
zookeepers removed them to a
separate cage behind the
small mammals currently on
display. Like most Titis they
pass their days sitting side by
side on a tree trunk with their
long tails intertwined. Zoo—
keepers are currently looking
for mates for Patrick and
Coco.

The Lemur family
Ann, Andy,
Bosco, 2, and Zowie, 1.

Stop by this Lemur house-
hold and you’re likely to see
mother Ann draped over a
tree limb. It seems she is ei-
ther tuckered out these days
or super-aggressive. She’s
also gained weight.

Her zookeeper thinks she is
pregnant again. If so, Ann’s
due date is May 17. Like the
Titis, the modern Lemur fa-
ther Andy will carry the new-
born on his back.

Ann has gone through some
dramatic changes in the past
year. She’s changed from apa-
thetic to a super-loving mom
thanks to some clever plan-
ning by zookeepers.

 

 

 

 

_

Chou Wong

Ann’s problems began two
years ago. When baby Bosco
was born she insisted on drop-
ping him off in a cage corner
and promptly forgetting about
him. Zookeepers worried
about this perverse form of
“Mothers Day Out.” They
worried that baby Bosco
would be scarred for life by
such parental rejection.

Solution: The zookeepers
decided to “hand raise”
Bosco. “Hand raise” is the
term zookeepers use when hu-

mans raise an animal.

Last year when Ann was
ready to give birth again, zoo-
keepers moved her to a tiny
birthing cage. When Zowie
was born, zookeepers theo-
rized that the cage was so
small that it would be hard for
Ann to forget about her new-
born. “She couldn’t forget
about Zowie because he was
right there in her face,” say
Killem.

This time Ann became a
loving, nurturing parent.

The only problem remain-
ing in the Lemur household is

Bosco. When he was placed in '

the cage with his parents after
being hand raised for a year
he protested violently.

“He screamed and carried
on. Bosco was totally con-
fused. He thought he was a
person and not a lemur,” says
Killem.

Over the past year zoo-
keepers have gradually tried
to get Bosco to accept his le-
murhood. They have taken
great pains to slowly intro-
duce Bosco to his new brother,
Zowie. So far the two brothers
are getting along famously.
They share a cage next to

 

 

Photo by Jerry Click
Like any American family, The Lemur family
has had its problems.

their parents. After the new
baby is born, zookeepers plan
to smooth out relations be-
tween Bosco and his parents.

The Giraffe family
C.J., 9, Sunshine, 9,
and Little Rex.

The Giraffe family is known
to have some of the biggest
hearts in the zoo. Take C.J.,
for example. His heart is
about 2 feet long and weighs
25 pounds.

Unfortunately for his fam-
ily the “miles and miles of
heart” don’t make up for his
cranky disposition.

“If he is not getting his way
he will kick you through the
fence,” says zookeeper Tam-
mery Olsen.

C.J.’s mate, Sunshine, on
the other hand, is curious and
loving. In September the two
long necks gave birth to their
first child, Little Rex.

Little Rex is a Libra, astro-
logically. Libras tend to be
somewhat indecisive and Lit—
tle Rex is true to his sign. Zoo—
keepers say he tends to swing
back and forth from his moth-
er’s to his father’s tempera-
ment.

Little Rex is 8 feet tall and'
weighs 150 pounds. Lately he
seems to be favoring his testy
dad, although zookeepers ex-
plain Little Rex could simply
be going through the “terrible
twos.”

When mom or grandma
tries to groom Little Rex he
gets extremely irritated and
impatient. “He thinks he is a
big boy now, and he kicks
them. He has just gotten to
that stage,” says Olsen.

 

 

 




 

 

Photo ‘b Carol E. .Nickson

 

The Wallabies, Down,
family and shy away from the crowds outside their home.

'= is;

K“ «‘3.
1, - u

Unde

X.

n-

133%.
e Ma 1‘

r and baby Joey,

\

are a

 

private

 

The Elephant family

Thai, 20, Me Thai 17,
and Beau Thai, 2.

Life among the elephants is
never dull . . . especially since
Beau Thai lumbered onto the
scene two years ago. Nick—
named “Bopper” by zoo-
keepers, this toddler elephant
has been active since birth.
Favorite pastime: hopping his
mother and his aunt Indu with
his trunk. Hence the nick-
name.

Zookeeper Lucille Sweeney
describes the relationship be-
tween mother and son as very
loving and close.

“She’s very solicitous of
him and never let him out of
her sight in the beginning. All
he would have to do is bellow
and she would come after
him,” says Sweeney.

When Beau Thai was born
his mother stood up all night
guarding him as he slept. Nor—
mally in the wild, females
take turns guarding the ba-
bies but Me Thai (also called
Abbie) stood vigil alone.

Lately Bopper has been go-
ing through a stage where he
relishes stomping on his moth-
er’s dinner. “He mashes her
bananas into a pulp until
there is nothing left. He really
enjoys the squishing feeling,
like any kid.”

 

Abbie used to let her adored
son destroy her bananas but
lately, Sweeney notes, she’s
changed her tune. She’s begun
to push him away. “Gradually
she’s telling him, ‘It’s time to
grow up, kid.’ ”

In March, Thai made news-
paper headlines after he
snatched a zookeeper and
ﬂung him across his cage. The
zookeeper had left a gate open
which normally separates the
animals when he washes them
down with a hose.

Baby Bopper tried to grab
the hose with his trunk. The
male zookeeper yanked it
away from him. That’s when
Thai, who was watching the
entire scenario, came charg-
ing through the open gate and
swept up the zookeeper in his
trunk.

Sweeney says Thai was in
musth, a period when ele-
phants establish dominance in
the wild. Often they simply go
looking for a fight.

Another theory Sweeney
has is that Thai may have
seen the zookeeper’s action as
an attack on Beau Thai. Fa-
ther came rushing to son’s de-
tense.

“Thai is a good bull but he
is territorial. But usually he is
a pretty easy-going boy.”

Kipp: ' 3‘}; ’.

Photo by Jerry Click
Samburu, left, and Marasbit have been together for almost 18 years. Marasbit's child-bearing years are numbered which has
prompted zoo officials to seek additional funding for a study that may allow her to experience motherhood.

 

 

The
Rhinoceros family
Samburu and Marasbit

Tick. Tick. Tick. Marasbit,
the white rhino and would-be
mother, has a biological time
clock that just won’t quit.

Marasbit is 19, and zoo—
keepers are worried she will
never experience motherhood.
Her child-bearing years are
numbered, and will probably
end around age 20. It seems
Marasbit and her mate, nick-
named “Boo” have a warm ,
and affectionate relationship.
They have lived together for
almost 18 years. The couple
usually sleep head to head,
snuggling their hefty bodies
side by side in the mud.

The problem is, as with
many white rhinos in captivi-
ty, the loving pair just doesn’t
get turned on sexually unless
there is a herd of rhinos in the
area. Marasbit and “Boo”
live alone.

“They may think they are
brother and sister,” specu-
lates zoo official Blasdel. “She
is larger than he is and it has
always seemed he just didn’t
have quite the aggressiveness
to breed with her.”

Lately zookeepers have
been trying to trick the couple
by spreading some waste
from San Antonio rhinos
around Marasbit and 800’s
pen. The zookeepers hope to
create the illusion that a rhino
herd has pounded through
their home.

If this doesn’t work zoo offi-
cials have another idea on the
burner. They have asked the
government for a $25,000
grant to make further studies
on the pair. The money would
pay for hormone tests on at
least 10 female rhinos across
the country. According to
Blasdel, such research also
would provide data on meth-
ods to propagate another sub-
species of rhino that is almost
extinct.

In March, US. Rep. Jack
Fields, R-Humble, rapped the
grant proposal calling this
proposed study of rhino ro-
mance a waste of taxpayers’
money. But Blasdell reports
not everyone agreed with
Fields. Many locals saw the
project as a worthy one and
called Blasdel, offering pri-
vate donations for the re-
search study which might
help preserve a disappearing
species.

And fortunately Marasbit
and Boo can’t read newspa-
pers and don’t watch televi-
sion. Certainly the animal
couple would be embarrassed
by all the recent publicity sur-
rounding their sex lives. I

 

 




 

; ‘t‘g'iypogs, like their oWners,
‘- :jeihve for the weekend _ :f;

fey MICH’ A EL’QUINTANILLA.

ONDAY‘THROUGH Friday, Cha—Cha, la 2- -3
year—old dachshund, sits inside a North Dal- .7: ‘
las apartment, chewing on a squeak toy, 7;“
a waiting for her owner, Mark lowery, to *'
.. burst through the front door and take her for a 'walk.
Sometimes, Lowery says he’s “just too tired” to
f walk Cha—Cha for more than a few minutes. And other
‘* , . tunes ——’because of a date or working out at" the gym 4' ~
' a 7-» there isn’t enough time to give the pet the attention
,__._itmv$- , . __ -. ,
_ " -'.-Bu‘t,~on the weekend,’lnwe1y makes up for it Cha-, 1:“
She goes to the ear wash, the dry cleaners, the I» ‘
_ ' ' record shop and the grocery store with her owner. I
. And in the passenger seat, her head hanging out . L;
’ ' the window enjoying the sights, sounds and .1;
[smells of Saturday and Sunday, Cha-Cha .
-:. goes crm‘sing " - a .“i‘.'_
' “It’s somethmg' I do for the dog be- :1;
cause during the week I’m usually “:3;
busy,” says MWET)’, 28. an an
mechanic. “1 make up for it III
on the weekends.” f
Lowery isn’t alone in

t See DOGS on Page 4 .-,.

 

 

 

like?”

 

A

Deborah Withey-Culp / Dallas Times Herald

ﬂ]

 

 

 




Weekend 18 a big part of a dog’s life

L . DOGS— From Page 1

‘ his efforts to please his pooch — a

‘ ‘ weekend dog of sorts.

I...-
¢ a

‘1‘12‘-‘l‘? '

‘ Statistics indicate there are 60

I ' million dog owners in the United

. States -— people who have decided
their jobs, lifestyles and canine

' companions can co-exist happily.
‘ In Dallas, the city’s Animal Control

Department reports there are
55,550 registered dogs. And many

“ Of these dogs have working owners

\

*~ with minimal time at the end of a

long day for their pets, says Carl
Binford, president of the Dallas
County Veterinarians Association.

:j. y “We are becoming owners of

‘0‘ 71".;

0-W‘Qﬁﬁttcllitgtgugngc-i:

.weekend dogs,” Binford says of

the notion that dogs, like their

owners, are beginning to live for
the weekend. ,

Binford says dog owners “should
not feel guilty” if the lack of week-
day time results in less attention

' given to a pet. Quality time — yes,

even for dogs — is what counts.

“Dogs tend to ﬁgure out most

schedules that people have. They
sense you’re leaving an hour or
two before you leave. But they also
sense when you’rereturning. They
adapt to your time and your envi-
ronment. They clock you. They
know what’s going on.’
" That’s why Binford says it’s im-
portant for dog owners — particu-
larly owners who live in apart-
ments and condominiums — to
have a weekly routine of walking
and feeding the pet. But on the
weekend, Binford says it’s OK to
spoil your dog.

“It’s not bad to go overboard on
the weekends. It’s about the only
time we have time to reward a pet.
It’s not bad at all. It’s love.” It’s
like rearing children, he says. .

“Dogs are kind of like kids. Dur-
ing the week we try to devote as
much time as possible to our chil-

dren, but late hours and night ac-
tivities might prohibit us from that.

So on weekends we do something
special for the children. Same
thing with pets.”

Bonnie Beaver, a professor with
the college of veterinarian medi-
cine at Texas A&M University,
says all a dog really needs to know
is that the animal is loved even if
two to three hours a day, or less,

' are spent with the pet.

“In general, a dog does quite
well just by being close to his or
her owner. It’s certainly good to in-
teract with the dog -—-— pet it and
talk to it while you’re watching

TV.” But, remember, she says, a

lot of pets without back yards to

' romp in are conﬁned to indoor

quarters 20 to 22 hours a day.
“Dogs are social animals,” Bea-
ver says. “They live in a pack and

”in taking the dog as a pet, the pet

owner has changed the dog" 5 pack
from canine members to human

members”
She says the important thing for

dog owners to remember is dogs
don’t like solitude. Ignore the dog
too much and it can be psychologi-
cally damaging to the animal’s
well-being.

As a result the dog will chew the

 

furniture, bark and worse, she says.
Then the pet owner will get angry

' and get rid of the dog, she adds.

“One of the most common
things we run into is people who
get a dog for the pats and the at-
tention the pet brings to them.
They like it for a while and then
they get back into their own busy
schedules and neglect the dog.
Dogs and pets are not disposable
items.”

Beaver says weekend dog own-

ers can feel better about them- ‘

selves during the week if they do

, not deviate from their schedule, —-

a regimen the animal relies on. “If
we make a schedule change every
night then the dog doesn’t know
what’s going on and that’s a bad
situation,’ she says.

Kathy Florence, 27, owner of 5-
year-old Xando (pronounced an-
do), a German shepherd, sticks to
her schedule faithfully to avoid
confusing her trusty companion.

Like clockwork, Xando is taken
. for four walks every weekday, in-

cluding one trip to Turtle Creek.
The schedule, Florence says,

“works ﬁne during the week.” But

on weekends she rolls out the red
carpet for her pet.

, “He runs errands with me. He
goes everywhere. He loves being in
the car, hanging out the window. I

 

honestly think he knows it’s}

Saturday.”

Xando also knows it’s the Week- .

end when Florence takes him for
his usual jog to Turtle Creek and
tosses his favorite tennis ball into
the water. That’s his cue to dive in.
“That’s his favorite thing ~-—— to
swim in Turtle Creek. He attracts a
big crowd. He loves it When we go
to Turtle Creek for that swim he
knows it’s the weekend,’ she says.
Sharon O’Callaghan’ s dogs,

I Kinder and Crow, also get special

treatment when Saturday and Sun-
day roll around. “They get longer
walks and Kinder likes car rides,”
O’Callaghan says.

O’Callaghan says guilt feelings
about leaving Kinder, a schnauzer,
alone during the day for about sev-
en years prompted her to ’get Crow,
part Labrador retriever, as a com-
panion fOr the schnauzer about
nine months ago.

Beaver, of Texas A&M, says get-

ting a second dog to keep the ﬁrst »

one company isn’t a bad idea. But
the trick, she says, is to stop at two.
More pets mean less time will be
devoted to each one, she warns.

O’Callaghan, chairman . of the
English department at Ursuline
Academy, tries to get home by 6
pm. each evening to take care of
her dogs. But often, grading papers
at night occupies her time. Still,
she says the dogs enjoy lying at her
feet as she tends to her paper
work.

“On the weekend they follow me
around. Whatever room I’m in,
they’re there. I’m home more on

~ the weekends so I can spend more
, time with them,” O’Callaghan says.

“They know I’m home for
keeps.”

m—WWM 11-1-11,__,_m.__1_mm_mm__

'I

 




 

 

 

City doesn’tlike cat out of the bag ’

CITY — From Page 21A

lawyer to appeal his case to the
City Council.

“He’s gonna be a fugitive from
justice,” Gossett said.

The tiger’s problems began
when city ofﬁcials received a
complaint about the animal from
one of Gossett’s neighbors near
his Dun-Tex Auto Sales.

City ordinances prohibit the
keeping of wild animals unless
the owner receives a special-use
permit from the City Council.
Such permits are issued for ani-
mals involved in scientiﬁc re-
search, exhibits or if owners re-
strain them.

Gossett, who paid $2,500 to an
Amarillo animal breeder for
Jumping Jack four months ago,
said he didn’t know about the

 

These types of animals have a place
and I’m not for sure it’s in a used car
lot or a new car lot. He’ll have to move
the tiger somewhere. It’s dangerous’

City Manager Dan Dodson

 

permit rule and hopes to con-
vince the council the de-clawed
tiger is, as he put it, “gentler than
a house cat.”

But some city officials are
skeptical. Four years ago, they
say, a pet panther got loose and
sent a shudder through the city

until police, ﬁreﬁghters and ani-
mal control ofﬁcers caught up
with it.

“A tiger is a tiger is a tiger,”
said Councilman Grady Smithey.
“The tiger just has to go. There’s
no way you can say a tiger will
never be a potential hazard.”

 

Gossett, who calls Jumping
Jack ‘my kitty cat,’ said about 200
people a week come to his car lot
to see the Bengal tiger, which is
on the federal govemment’s en-
dangered species list.

“I gotta see that cat every day,”
said George Repka, a local car
dealer. “Everyone is attached to
him that comes around here.”

Gossett said he’s willing to cage
Jumping Jack as long as he can

' keep him. City Councilman Mac

Warren, a veterinarian who has
treated the animal, said that’s all
right with him.

But City Manager Dan Dodson
says the tiger has to go.

“These types of animals have a
place and I’m not for sure it’s in a
used car lot or a new car lot,” he
says. “He’ll have to move the ti-
ger somewhere. It’s dangerous.”

 

 

 




 

 

Glen Gossett waits wi

th Jumping Jack to see veterinarian Mac Warren. Says Gossett

“He’s gonna be a fugitive from justice.”

Joe Patronlte/Dallas Times Herald

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

DALLAS TIMES HERALD — May 3, 1986

tiger’s tale *

There’s trouble on a carlot in Duncan-
ville, and it starts with T as in tiger.
City officials have told car dealer Glen
Gossett, above, to give up Jumping

. Joe Patronite/Dallas Times Herald
Jack, his ZOO-pound Bengal tiger that
roams the lot. Gossett says no. “He’s
gonna be a fugitive from justice,” said
Gossett. Story, Page 21A.

 

 

 

 




See CITY on Page 27A

Gossett, owner of 3 Mai
nd a fence

 

ng Jack adds emph

as:

's to the sign posted above h

lm.

 

J umpi _

!:

Jack
ci

Ci

Ofﬁcials have gi
a 9

al—use permi

!

Red tape

weapons known to man

tin

trap set by Ci
ty ofﬁci

unleashed behi

to need a lot more th
ty Hall

DUNCANVILLE —
als are hun
ven Gossett until
month-old Bengal ti
t to keep

th

9

eani

an cunning,
sai

ger
ma]

dhe

Glen Gossett’
n Street car lot where the t
de hi

agi

l

s 200

i

g the beast wi
’11 h

i

v

-pound pet
today to get rid
because he doesn
5 pet unti

tiger is

ty and strength to avoi

lheh

iger roams
ires a

th one of the most effect.
of Jump

’t have a spe-

ihg

going
d the
ive

Joe Patroni

te/Dallas Times Herald

Staffwri

By CATHERINE CHRISS

toothy for Ci

ter

tyH

ttle too bi
all’

S taste

Glen Gossett i
Kitty’s a1

ntroduces h
l

gand

to thecar lot guard dog;

 

 

is “ki

tty”

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

LOS ANGELES TIMES - May S, 1986

. Returning
WildHorses
to the Wild

- Program Hopes to
Resettle Przewalskis

AN DIEGO—For 2,000 years,

Chinese literature referred to

wild horses roaming the steppes,
and deserts of western Asia. ‘

But by the late 19th Century, when
scientists finally confirmed the existence
of the Mongolian wild horse—the only
wild horse species in the world—its
survival in the wild was already ‘
precarious. And in the past
quarter-century, the animal, also known
,‘ as the Przewalski horse after the
Russian who discovered proof of it,
has become extinct in its natural habitat.

The species is being kept alive,
however, through the efforts of about
70 zoos and wildlife parks in North
America and Europe. And plans are
under way to reintroduce the horses
to the wild in the next decade. '

Herds are to be formed from the
hundreds of Przewalskis successfully
bred in captivity, some from the largest
North American collection at the San
Diego Zoo and Wild Animal Park and
others from the world’s most extensive
preserve in the Soviet Union’s Ukraine.

Key elements of the project, being
planned under the auspices of the United
Nations, include preparing protected
areas in Mongolia and other Asian
high-plains regions, developing the
expertise to manage—but not
control—the horses once they are
released, and minimizing international
politics during the complicated '
restoration process.

Scientists also have had to develop
a new breeding program to increase .

 

 

By DAVE SMOLLAR,

 

Times Staﬂ Writer

the horses’ chances of survival in the
wild. , .
If the program meets its goal, either

- by its tentative 1991 date or later, it

will represent another notch in the
efforts of zoologists to place endangered
or extinct-in -the-wild animals into

as natural a state as possible. .

The Arabian oryx was reintroduced
into Oman and Jordan in the 19705
after being made extinct in desert areas
by machine gun-toting game hunters.
Scientists have talked of placing the
lemur‘, a small nocturnal primate, back
on the island of Madagascar. And '
controversy is afoot over suggestions

'1 that the five California condors still

 

in the wild be captured and held in
the Los Angeles and San Diego zoos
until sufficient numbers can be bred
and put back into their Southern
California refuge.

In the case of the Mongolian wild
horses, “the effort started as a labor
of love and scientific interest among
many zoologists in the 1960s,” said
geneticist Oliver A. Ryder of the
research department at the San Diego
Zoological Society. Ryder spoke at
a United Nations-sponsored conference
in Moscow on the Przewalski last year,

. where the 1991 target date was set.

“The 1991 date is optimistic,” Ryder
said, explaining that it assumes ‘
“remaining conflicts will be resolved
and that government-to-government
problems can be minimized.” '

The Chinese, who want to reintroduce
the horse in wilderness areas of their
country, did not participate in the 1
Moscow meeting. Their program, which
will receive a stallion from San Diego
in September for breeding purposes,
might proceed apart from U.N. plans,
according to Jim Dolan, general curator
for mammals at the zoological society.

' Other problems include the lack
of expertise in Mongolia, which has
no zoos and no experience in handling
endangered animals, Dolan said.

“The releases should be done,” Dolan
said. “The Mongolians want to do it,
the Chinese want to do it, and if it can

. be done in the areas where the horses

formerly existed, the results are
Please see HORSES, Page 18

 

 

Monorail trainload of visitors passing wild horses; scientists

have developed a new

breeding program.

 

 

 




obviously beneficial.”

For a species that may go back
more than 10,000 years—cave
drawings in Europe feature a horse
strikingly similar to the Przewal-
ski—relatively little is known
about how the horse lived in the
wild.

In 1881, Russian nobleman and
explorer N.M. Przewalski spon-
sored the first expedition to obtain
a carcass of the only species of
never-domesticated horses. Even
after the skeleton was displayed in
St. Petersburg (now Leningrad),
most scientists remained uncon-
vinced that the animal was truly a
horse, pointing out its stocky,
mule-like appearance.

PrOof of its wild status was not
solid until the Duke of Bedford
captured Przewalskis and bred
them at his Woburn Abbey game
preserve in England around the
turn of the century. Even in cap-
tivity, they would not be tamed.

The population of the, tan,
white-snouted horses shrank in
their natural habitats—Mongolia,
the eastern Soviet Union and west-
ern; China—under, competition
from large numbers of domestic
animals for limited water sources.
The horses also were hunted by
nomads who considered them pests
good only for their skin and meat.

A Przewalski was last taken
from captivity in 1947 and no
sightings—even unconfirmed—.-
have been made since the early
1960s.

700 in Captivity

But there are at least 700 of the
horses in captivity, with the num-
bers growing by perhaps as many
as 100 a year. The official studbook
for births worldwide is kept by
zookeepers in Prague, Czechoslo-
vakia. The lineage of all the horses
can be traced back to 12 animals, 11
captured at the turn of the century
and the 1947 catch, a mare named
Orlitza.

For many years, these animals
were mated without efforts to vary
the gene pool, with many mares
and their offspring being bred with
only one stallion. At a certain point,
inbreeding can become so serious
that the animals would be unlikely
to survive if returned to the wild,

because genetic traits favnrinr: do- 5
mestication would be highly domi-

 

 

 

‘The releases should
be done. The
Mongolians want ‘
to do it, the Chinese
want to do it . . .’

, —Jim Dolan,
General curator for mammals
at the San Diego Zoological
Society

 

 

 

 

 

nant, Ryder said.

After a 1964 symposium on Prze-
walskis in East Germany, an effort
was made to expand blood lines by
using more stallions in breeding,
Ryder said. '

“That was a major problem, the
erosion of the gene pool using too
few stallions,” he said. “Now we
want every stallion to breed, and
breed in several different loca-
tions.”

Ryder coordinates a 7 -year-old
cooperative breeding program
among nine North American zoos.
In one exchange, a stallion brought
to the Bronx Zoo from the Moscow
Zoo was transferred in 1983 to the
Wild Animal, Park, where he im-

pregnated seven mares before suf-

fering a fatal back injury last year.

“Breeding programs have had
astounding successes every-
where,” Ryder said. “And our own
herd in San Diego is magnificent.”
It now includes 11 males and 18
females.

Ryder said he is frustrated When

guides at the 'Wild Animal Park
spend less time describing the
Przewalski horses than pointing
out the one domesticated camel
that shares their large enclosure.
“San Diego has made a major
commitment,” Ryder said. “We’ve
got two major breeding groups, one

' . aga-srbasratd womb“, and

.'~.,

: 1'3an lo”;

VINCE COMPAGNONE / Lo

 

S

i .

 

Angeles Times

A Przewalski horse galloping at the Wild Animal Park; horses are named fOr the man who authenticated them.

 




a. group of bachelor males off-ex-
hibit. Those males can be sent
around the world as they near
breeding age. We’re also working
With research on semen collection,
on artificial insemination, so that
perhaps we could freeze away
representative semen in case a
catastrophic epidemic ever oc-
curred.”

One of the prerequisites for the
release program will be placement
of an initial herd in an area closely
resembling the wild, but where the
horses can still be controlled and
watched for behavioral or genetic
problems. One unanswered ques-

tion is whether stallions more than
occasionally kill their young,
something that happened once last
year at the Wild Animal Park.

“You have to remember that we
don’t understand their biology all
that well, and that real studies of
their behavior . . . only have be-
gun in the last 10 years at spacious
zoo environments,” Ryder said.

Dolan said the Askania Nova
wildlife preserve in the Ukraine
most closely approximates the
Mongolian habitat and will be the
best staging area.

He said the horses will not be
completely free of human inter-
vention even after the releases
begin, citing the management nec- ‘
essary throughout Africa to pre-
serve elephants and other large
mammals in national game parks.

“If the animals can be put into a
secure area, with sufficient water
and feed, I see no problems scien-
tifically,” Dolan said.

 

 




 

 

 

DENVER POST - May 3,

 

‘ Despite the fearsome look,
T ee- Beau ’s a lounge lizard

By Ann Schrader
Denver Post Staff Writer ,

Pay no attention to the 80,000-pound
truck, bothersome dogs and a few poking
fingers that Tee-Beau has attacked -
he’s just an old softie.

A couple of strokes of his smooth,
dappled skin disproves his reputation and
formidable appearance.

Tee-Beau, a 22-pound, Moot-long
rhinoceros iguana, travels around the
country with Monty Krizan for
appearances at shopping malls and
schools.

“I remind people that this form of life
is disappearing," Krizan said of Tee-
Beau, who is on the endangered species
list. The iguana - about to celebrate his
16th birthday - and his entourage of 55
reptilian pals provide “an avenue of
instruction about the environment,"
Krizan said.

Being on display is something Tee-
Beau “seems to get off on,” Krizan said.

It shows. The snoopy, vegetable-
chomping iguana continually steals the
show.

During his sun-basking stint Friday
afternoon on the 16th Street Mall,

. passers-by recorded some typical

responses.

“What is it?” a girl asked as she made
a face. Another said, “Did he just follow
you home one day?”

As other heads snapped around, a
teenager called Tee-Beau “disgusting.”
Tee-Beau closed his eyes, apparently

, used to disparaging remarks.

But Krizan defended the iguana he’s
had “since he was as big as a hot dog.”
When Tee-Beau tires of the spotlight

, and gets a bit cranky, Krizan locks him

in the shower to let him cool off. Then
Tee-Beau is ready to play shortstop in a
grape-catching game, catch a Nerf ball,
play with a plunger and promote the
environment.

Tee-Beau and the others can be seen
today at Kipling Plaza, South Kipling.
Street and West Belleview Avenue. Other
appearances include: Sunday and
Monday, Parker Center in Parker;
Wednesday and Thursday, Buckley
Square, Buckley Road and East Iliff
Avenue; and next Friday and Saturday,
Summer Valley, Buckley Road and East
Quincy Avenue.

 

 

 

The Denver Post / Damian Strohmeyer

Despite assurances. Gloria Croswaithe, 6, cautiously approaches Tee-Beau the
iguana Friday. . ' _




TAMPA TRIBUNE - May 6, 1986

Pinellas will not prosecute lamb killers

By ED DEITZ ’
Tribune Staff Writer

TARPON SPRINGS — Greek-
Americans who slaughtered lambs
last weekend as part of their observ-
ance of Easter will not be prosecut-
ed, a Pinellas County humane offi-
cer said Monday.

“I only know of a few people by
name who did it,” said Ben Noreikis,
the officer in charge of northern Pi-
nellas for the Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals. “So to sin-

‘gle them out, while a lot of other
people did it too, wouldn’t befair.”

Prosecutions, he said, could have
been authorized by the Pinellas-
Pasco State Attorney’s Office under
a Florida law that makes it illegal to
slaughter livestock without first
making them “insensible to pain,” or
unconscious. '

Noreikis said he doesn’t know
how many families here slaughtered
the lambs last weekend, but esti-

IV- $723055 ~5.- 7, 86
Greenwich Seeks to Prod

mated the number of lambs killed at
500.

Residents said last week that, ac-
cording to their tradition, they must
hoist the lambs by their hind legs
onto tree limbs and cut their throats
while they’re still conscious. The
animals bleed to death, are cleaned
and cooked, and then consumed on
the orthodox Easter Sunday.

The practice is part of the tradi-
tional celebration of Easter, but is
not sanctioned officially by the
church, church leaders said last
week.

“It’s a tradition that dates back
from Moses and the Old Testament,”
said the Rev. Tryfon Theophilopou-
los, pastor at St. Nicholas Greek Or-
thodox Cathedral.

The act is “based in the words of
Moses who ordered the people of Is-
rael to slaughter sheep and splatter
the blood on the entrances to their
homes to protect their first-born
sons from the wrath of God,” the

pastor explained.
Greek-Americans here have
slaughtered lambs without contro-

- versy since the area was first settled

by Greek sponge divers almost a
century ago.

Noreikis said the practice went
unchallenged only because he was-
n’t on the job until this year.

’He said he considers it inhumane
and wants residents to use what’s
called a “stun gun” to render the
animals unconscious prior to their
slaying.

The weapon, a common tool at
slaughter houses, sends a sharp steel
rod into the base of the animal’s
skull and paralyzes it, Noreikis said.
The rod then retracts and can be
used again, he said.

“I’m going to request an appear-
ance before the City Commission
and explain what the options are and
ask them to draw up an ordinance
on it,” Noreikis said.

 

Geese Get Ample Warning

 

“Geese Into Leaving Beach

By DIRK JOHNSON
Special to The New York Times

" GREENWICH, Conn., May 8 -
They continue to eat what they
please and generally make them-
selves at home, despite being in-
sulted, chased and fired upon by
cannons.

” Some unwelcome visitors, it
seems, never get the hint.

‘ The pesky Canada geese, neme-
Sis of the barefooted beachgoer,
have been sunning themselves as
usual at the Byram Park beach.
But this week, they got a surprise.
Town officials erected a low-am-
perage shock fence, the sort used
by livestock farmers, around this
popular site for sunbathing and
waddling, as an electrical way of
telling the geese to go away.
“We think of it as a behavior-
modification program,” said
Frederick Walters, chief of

beaches and marinas i‘ﬁ/the Town.

of Greenwich. “It’s kind of ironic,
this being being ‘Be Kind to Ani-
mals Week.’ ”

The wire, which sends a shock
roughly equal to that of a spark
plug.
humans. It is turned on at sun-
'd‘Own and off at 8 A.M., when the
park opens. When the birds get
shocked enough times, officials
are hoping, they will go else-

cannot injure birds or

where.

Some residents fear the birds
will simply fly over the fence. But
officials theorize that the Canada
geese — grown fat because they
no longer migrate as they should

— are not in any condition for J,

fence-jumping.
‘Battle for the Beachfront’

But in this “battle for the beach- ’

front,” as one official called it,
many residents are betting on the

birds. “The geese will outsmart ‘
them,” said Stephen Timchak,
who fishes near the beach. “They

have every other time.”

Deluged with complaints about I.
the geese last summer —- espe-
cially the reminders they leave

behind - town officials ulti-

mately resorted to firing a blank E
cannon to scare the birds. But
residents complained about “the ;

Ramboesque connotations,” Mr.
Keegan said, so officials switched
to the shock treatment.

Since the fence was installed
Monday night, officials believe,
the number of geese at Byram
Park has declined. They con-
ceded, however, that they had not
seen any geese bump into the
fence, only an unsuspecting squir-
rel.

 

Frederick Walters,
left, chief of beaches
and marinas, checking
an electric fence that
the town of Greenwich,
Conn., has put up in an
effort to keep Canada
geese, including the
one above, from the
beach at Byram Park.
Page B2.

 

 




DETROIT FREE PRESS/WEDNESDAY, MAY 7, 1986 9A

 

 

 

This week, every week,
be kind to critters

By JUDD ARNETT
ALL In A Lifetime . . .

This is National Be Kind to Animals '

Week, so if you feel the urge to give the
four-legged pet in your life an extra
squeeze, don’t hold back. Critters are
akin to humans in that they rarely
receive too much > =
affection.

Mark Twain
once said: “If you
pick up a starving
,dog and make him
prosperous, he
will not bite you.

This is the princi-

pal difference be- ‘

tween a dog and a ?

man.” Amen. Yet '1. - -- ‘

one is constantly ,Arnett‘
amazed and disgusted at the volume of
cruelty to animals that persists
thrbughout America.

When Ol’ Yeller came to us at the
house on Grandmont in Detroit in the
early 19705, it was estimated that there
were 80,000 homeless dogs wandering
the streets of the city, living and dying
from paw to mouth. Some of you may
recall the story. Fern spotted him in the
shrubbery near the front porch. He was
exhausted, muddy, battle-scarred and
leery of society in general.

WE COAXED him from seclusion
with a pan of bread and milk, and
decided to feed him one meal. He stayed
with us, faithful, protective, loving, for
five years. He was born and lived part
of his life during hard times; to us and
many hundreds of others, he became
the symbol of a city that refused to
- knuckle under to adversity. When he
died of head injuries sustained in a
freak incident — it was necessary to
slam on the brakes to avoid hitting a
young driver who had decided to play
“chicken” — it took extra hands a long
time to catch up with the mail.

The memory of him lingers and
quite often recollection stirs a mixture

of sadness and affection. That is the

_ way with pets: You love them and then
you miss them, so much at times that
you wonder whether you should go
through with it again. But you usually
do . ..

WE WENT, then, on Sunday to the
annual spring party and bazaar spon-
sored by members and supporters of
the Anti-Cruelty Association. Once
more, Schultz was up strutting his
stuff, casting aside the Michigan ar-

thritis and barking and prancing at the

presence of so many old friends. He is
of the nature of Sonny Eliot, who
comes out of the doldrums whooping
and hollering at the sight of a micro-
phone and the whirring of cameras.
Schultz was abetted by Tilly, wide-
eyed, ears pointed, a stunner when
fresh out of the beauty salon. She was
carried onstage by Irish, and for a few
minutes all of us forgot the outside
world and were close to what the
slogan says, “Love is what we’re all

. about . . .”

The Anti-Cruelty Association,
headquartered at 13569 .105. Campau,
is now in its Slst year, the ongoing
memorial to four women who shared
compassion for the suffering of aban-
doned and abused animals. Myrtle E.
Babcock, Dr. Myra Babcock, Gladys
Rains and Lois Banfield began their
crusade against cruelty in June 1935,
providing out-of-pocket money for the
shelter of 10 animals. Last year there
was care for 15,000; and shortly a new

ambulance will be in service, trans- _
porting the injured, the abandoned, the .

neglected, the friendless.

IT IS ONE of the favorite charities
of countless citizens from all walks of
life, who provide all of the money —
the budget this year is $250,000.

Across America, the story of inhu-
manity 1s appalling. It 1s estimated that
33 million animals were abandoned or
otherwise mistreated in 1985. In De-
troit last month, Anti-Cruelty received
600 cats for shelter and, we hope,
placement. The harsh figure is that

only about 10 percent of the homeless ,

ever find new homes and lasting affec-
tion. Ol’ Yeller was lucky — but not as
fortunate as those who took him in.

It has been said that in some in-
stances pets may be better for you than
medicine. There is a heap of love out
there for the taking, and one of the best
telephone numbers in the area is 313-
891-7188. -

Louis A. Goldstein, whose father
was Jewish and mother Irish Catholic,
has always claimed “the best of both
worlds,” and shortly he will add to it by
retiring as an architect from the De-
troit Board of Education and re-settlin g
in his nativeNew Orleans. Phase III of
his life, as he calls it, will not begin
until July 1, thus giving many friends
the chance to send him off in style.
When you get home, Lou, eat a dozen
On the half-shell for the curmudgeon!

 

DALLAS TIMES HERALD 5/3/86

Authorities
kill couple’s
pack of dogs

United Press International

HOLLAND, Mass. — Humane
Society authorities sought com—
plaints Friday against a couple
they! said kept 87 dogs in horrifying
conditions in their small home and
yard, prompting ofﬁcials to destroy
all but one of the animals.

Arr ofﬁcer for the state’s Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals said he went to Palmer'
District Court for misdemeanor
complaints against Clarence and
Elizabeth Rogers.

A hearing to determine whether ‘
charges will be ﬁled has been set
for May 19, Holland Police Ofﬁcer
Richard LeBlond said.

Clarence Rogers, a 69-year-old
former selectman in the tiny cen-
tral Massachusetts town of 1,300, .
took responsibility for the dogs’
situation.

“I admit it was bad judgment but
I had to put them somewhere,” he
told The News of Southbridge.

Police Chief Terry Papesh,
armed with a warrant, went to the
couple’s rural residence Tuesday
and found about 75 dogs in the
trailer-like home, packed tight on a
ﬂoor covered with feces.

Rogers said he and his wife were
not bothered by the conditions.

Ofﬁcials from Holland and two
neighboring communities donned
air packs and spent more than 12
hours removing the animals.

 

 




 

INSIGHT — April 28, 1986

I

3» f: " f "Iﬁmét’

4

l
3 . r r‘. .
7 was; 4-» '—-

m, i
g . J

3 _. u."
”mu-I.» a. ’1 a. l . l. .

Land (realm gs; E t’ in
Land Swap

Two federal agencies and the Wen-
dell Wilson family of Kelly, Wyo. , have
arranged a land swap that will help pro-
tect the migration route for the largest
elk herd in the United States.

According to David Klinger, a
spokesman for the US. Fish and Wild-
life Service, the transaction involves the
trade of 1,838 acres of coal lands east
of Rock Springs, Wyo., managed by
the Bureau of Land Management, for
354 acres owned by the Wilson family
in the Jackson Hole resort area that had
development potential.

Klinger says the Wilson acreage will
be incorporated into the northern end of
Wyoming’s National Elk Refuge. He
says the appraised value of each prop-
erty was $3.4 million.

Such land swaps “might be the be-
ginning of a little trend as budgets get
tighter,” he says. “The land is out of
public ownership and saved from devel-
opment.”

_ >.. a .7 r _
_.— - ,«.Y .51,
. at"... -taa'AS'; 53.3.1... ‘4‘.

. . my ”11,-”. ,
-~ ”a; #135»

GLEN SMART / Us. FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE

A9,”! 15.4”

vial; *" 1.. '

National magi};

“94 731W“ Isa/2,94
Satellites used to track whales in Alaska

Satellites are helping native Alas-
kan whale hunters locate their enor-
mous prey. The satellites, orbiting
more than 450 miles above the earth,
generate black-and-white photo-
graphs that identify open water along
Alaska’s frozen northern coastline.
Bowhead whales often migrate to
open water for air, said Greta Burger,
a research aide at the Geophysrcal In-
stitute at the University of Alaska in
Fairbanks. .

Plus, "‘The photos give whalers tid-

bits of information, like where thence
is breaking off and where one ’rmght
think about setting up camp, said
Jana Harcharek, ofﬁce manager of
the Alaska Eskimo Whaling Commis-
sion, which pays $125 for each set of
satellite images .
Apparently, it’s working well. Resi-
dents of Barrow, Alaska, have caught
seven bowhead whales during the
month -— nearly twice the largest
catch in a single whaling season In the

past eight years.

INSIGHT Magazine - 5/12/86

Windfall for Hunters

Hunters and conservationists alike may
have something to cheer about in the 1985
farm law. Depending on the bent of in-
dividual farmers, the measure could con-
vert millions of acres of marginal farmland
Into wildlife preserves or hunting grounds.

The law allows the Agriculture Depart—
ment to enter into long-term contracts with
fannersto take highly erodible land out of
production and place it into a conservation
reserve, explains Senate Agriculture Com—
mittee spokesman Ron Phillips.

The. landowners are required to plant
vegetatlon hospitable to wildlife. Crops
such as alfalfa would not be allowed under
program rules, says a spokesman for the
Wildlife Management Institute, explain-
Ing, “The government doesn’t want stuff
the farmer could surreptitiously harvest and
sell, adding to the surplus.”

 




Commercializing a Gentle
' UHgUlate

1“? I

—_£.L

Llama mania is
Creating a breed

of yuppie pets selling
for record prices.

 

By ANDREW L. YARROW

 

TECUMSEH has seen its share of live-
stock sales over the years, but this farm
belt Nebraska community had never
witnessed anything like the extravaganza
staged two weeks ago. Some 1,500 people, fol-
lowed by network television crews, ﬂew in
for the largest and most lucrative llama auc-
tion ever held. Fred Hartman, a veteran with
the gavel, put 247 llamas on the block, gross-
ing a cool $1.5 million. The priciest turned out
. to be Oscar, a 2-year-old stud with “banana-
shaped ears” who fetched $54,000, toppling
the record $51,000 set a year ago.

Art Kressly, the proud new owner, says he
got value for his money. “Oscar has good
quality wool, a heavier bone structure,” said
the Lynnport, Pa., breeder. “All in all, his
proportions are perfectly structurally pleas-
ing to the eye.”

Prices have been consistently rising for a
top-of-the-line llama. Cheryl Dal Porto, edi-
tor‘ of Llamas magazine, recalls: “In our
first issue, seven years ago, females were
selling for $1,500.” Now breeding females sell
at an average price of $6,000 to $10,000; males
start at around $750 for a pet or pack animal.

Celebrity owners, such as Michael Jackson
and Mike Nichols, have added to the llama’s
cachet. One of the elegant camelids -— a
Cousin to the camel — has even been spotted
promenading along Manhattan’s Central
Park South. -

.-.While some breeders enjoy both the promo- .

tional hype and the fat profits, others are
troubled that the traditional Andean beast of
biirden is emerging as a “yuppie animal.”
The International, Llama Association news-
letter and Llamas'magazine run frequent ar-
ticles on the potential pitfalls of the current
llama craze, including the possibility of a
price shake-out.

f‘The skyrocketing llama market is a dan-
gerous thing,” said Eric Hoffman, a Santa
Cruz, Calif., breeder who also writes about
the animals. “I’ve dealt with people with in-
veStment portfolios who couldn’t care if they
owned llamas or stocks.”

Long-time breeders, many of whom have
small, mom-and-pop operations, have been

amazed at the prices and saddened to see the»

creatures traded like a commodity. Steve
Rolfing, a breeder in Columbia Falls, Mont.,
said: “We love our animals and want. to see
them treated as more than investments. We
also don’t want ridiculous breeding stand-
ards set, which will happen if they become a
show animal.”

.Nonetheless, a growing number of shows
and auctions are planned, including one to-

day near La Crosse, Wis., sponsored by the
Mississippi Valley Llama Association, and
another Fred Hartman extravaganza sched-
uled for Grants Pass, Ore., in October.

Why the current mania? Many breeders
see parallels between today’s booming llama
market and the market for Arabian horses in
the 1970’s. Once Arabians were certified as
chic, a show-and-sale circuit developed, and
prices spiraled into the stratosphere —
where, in fact, they have remained. Elite
Arabians may go for more than $1 million.

About a decade ago, 'a few hikers in the
West began to use the sure-footed ungulates
as pack animals. “The treks got llamas pub-
licity,” said Mr. Hoffman. “Then the horse
crowd became involved.” Promoters and
people who breed for shows followed. Llamas
were widely touted as the best investment in
exotic animals, and demand grew.

According to the International Llama As-
sociation, a breeders organization, demand
far exceeds the domestic supply — now esti-
mated at 8,000 to 12,000, and increasing as
fast as the llamas can be bred.

Most North American llamas are de-
scended from a herd that William Randolph
Hearst brought to his San Simeon estate from
South America in the 1920’s. Since 1930 Chil-
ean llamas have been all but excluded be-
cause of fears about foot-and-mouth disease,

according to Dr. Gerald Fichtner of the Agri—

culture Department. Peru and Bolivia have
long maintained stringent export restrictions
to protect the wool market.

To the delight of would-be buyers and the
consternation of most of the American llama
establishment, a shipment of 300 Chilean
llamas, declared disease-free, were brought
into the United States in 1.984 by a small group
of American dealers. Amid much debate
about infected animals and, undoubtedly,
more than a little concern about the potential
for cheap foreign llamas to flood what is now
very much a sellers’ market, no llamas have
made it into the country since then.

COMMERCIAL llama ranches are con-
centrated in California and other West-
ern states, but they turn up almost
,everywhege. John and Nancy Calhoun of

Cornwall, Conn, for instance, have been
breeding llamas since 1977; their herd num-
bers about two dozen. Dick Patterson, a vet-
eran breeder from Sisters. Ore., has the larg-
est American herd, comprising 500 animals.
For the - several hundred commercial
breeders, llamas have been not only valuable
assets, but a high-yield tax shelter as well.
Breeders, who —- under existing regulations
—need a minimum herd of three females and
one male to qualify for tax breaks, can de-
preciate their animals, take an investment
tax credit on them, and deduct llama-related
expenses. If some of the tax measures now
before Congress become law, many breeding
operations would become less profitable.
The intangible values of the llama remain
powerful. People are indisputably drawn to

g the Lama glama, as scientists call them.

“They’re absolutely beautiful, with their

 




aristocratic faces and lovely, long
eyelashes,” said Nancy Calhoun.

For most of the country’s 1,500 private
owners, a llama is simply a novel and lovable
pet. A cuddly young llama may be permitted
the run of the house — they can be house-
broken, although they apparently cannot be
stopped from devouring house plants. But
even the most adoring llamaphiles usually
turn the 300-pound-plus adults out-of-doors.

An adult can be unruly —‘- which has pro-
vided a business niche for at least one entre-
preneur. Three years ago Helen Bodington, a
dog trainer, opened Polite Pets, near San An-
selmo, Calif., to serve as a llama “boarding
school.” For about $300 tuition, she puts the
llama through a three-week training course.
The graduate will be a skilled trail leader,
willing to accept a halter and a pack. On com-
mand it will lie down or climb into a van.
“Strangers find it quite startling when they
jump out of a VW bus,” Mrs. Bodington said.

Hikers have long regarded llamas as an
elite corps among beasts of burden, able to
work at high altitudes that most other pack
animals cannot tolerate. They can carry up
to one-third of their 300-to-450-pound body
weight. Unlike horses or burros, they can for-
age for their own food. And their two-toed
feet, divided by a curved nail in front, have
soft, leathery pads that barely leave an im-
print on mountain trails, thus leaving the
fragile wilderness ecology undisturbed, ac-

' cording to Steve Crone, of the Telemark Inn
and Llama Farm near Bethe], Me.

Mr. Crone is one of about 25 llama-trekking
entrepreneurs who offer group excursions
into the high-country wilderness, at prices

ranging from $60 to $125 a day. Despite their

one bad habit — they spit when cornered or
annoyed — llamas are generally-cheerful hik-
ing companions. Though usually quiet, the
animals hum softly to converse with humans
or other llamas; a throaty, yodeling sound or
a shrill whinny conveys alarm.

For Jay Stager, his 20 llamas are “a good
promotional feature” to attract kids to his
Hidden Valley Camp in Freedom, Me. But
apart from their limited use as novelties,

pack animals and investments, he says,'

“Llamas aren’t really Viable for anything.”

HIS seems an ironic outcome for the his-
toric animal. At least 4,000 years ago,
llamas and other South American came-
lids — the alpacas, vicunas and guanacos ——
were domesticated in the cold, wind-swept
Andean plains of present-day Peru, Bolivia
and Chile. The Incas used the practical ani-
mals to carry loads, and for wool and hides;
the dried dung was a source of fuel.
An adult animal stands only four feet high
at the shoulder, but its long neck enables it to
look most humans squarely in the eye. Life

expectancy is 15 to 20 years, and females can .
- be bred at about age 2; a single kid is born ll"

a

 

 

 

months later. Their numbers in South Amen"

ica have been estimated at from one million
to seven million. But horses, mules or jeeps
command far higher status than llamas
among the Andean Indians.

The soft, fine wool of llamas and alpacas is
the backbone of a multimillion-dollar indus-
try in South America, and a fine-spun fabric
made from baby llama fleece sells for about

‘ $70 a yard. Such a fabric inspired designer 33
Donna Karan’s fall collection: Her coats of '

baby llama wool will retail for~.$2,200.

Nonetheless, few American owners care to *

compete in the commercial wool market.

* Last year at an auction in Stockton, N.J., a
three-pound llama fleece sold for $9.25 a .5

pound — a paltry sum, considering, that it
takes two or three years for a shorn animal to
regain its former wooliness. And. to mOSt
owners, a bait? llama is just a lot less cute. I

 

 

'3‘"! ,_\

 

 

At a Tecumseh, Neb. auction
two weeks ago, the largest ever
held. 247 llamas changed hands .

 

David Jacobson/Maiden Record-Journal

Steve Crone (above) of Bethel,
Me. and John Calhoun (left) of.
Cornwall, Conn. —— with friends.

 




 

PEOPLE WEEKLY Magazine — May S, 1986

CONFIDANT OF MOODY MARES AND
GLUM GELDINGS, TERRY NIELS LISTENS
WHEN DISTURBED HORSES SPEAK

by Pat Jordan

Terry Niels has a photograph album bound in Belgian
leather. it is filled with photographs of horses, only two of
which he has ever owned. Most of the photos are simply
head shots of horses, portraits really. There is a, Belgian
jumper with a weary expression of sadness. There is a
black with a heavy-lidded expression of defeat, a dappled
gray with a look of tight-lipped repression, a roan with an
expression of whimsy. That one is standing in a stall in Bel-
gium, nuzzling the thinning hair of the smiling man beside
him. There is writing above the photograph: “1982—Orson
is the best horse I never had—l sold him to come here.”

A horse’s expression is very important to Terry Niels, a
30-year-old Belgian citizen now living in Pompano Beach,
Fla. It tells him about the horse and, by extension, the
horse’s owner. That’s how Terry earns his living. He makes

 

Photographs by Mimi Cotter

disturbed horses—and, by extension, their owners—happy
again. He has an old black Lincoln Town Car with a white
sign on each front door that reads “Horse Psychologist,”
followed by his telephone number.

“People see the sign and they laugh,” he says in his thick
Belgian accent. “But that’s what I am. I am not a trainer. A
trainer works quickly. He beats a horse. He forces him to
behave a certain way out of fear. i try to understand a
horse. l let him teach me what he knows first. Then I work
slowly. i talk to him, become his friend, play with him, pull his
tail like a pet. i make it a pleasure for him, and then I find out
his problem and fix it. One time in Kentucky an owner was
trying to clip his horse’s ears. It was very ticklish for the
horse, so the man was going to put a twitch on him that
would cause him just enough pain that he wouldn’t feel

CONTINUED

 




 

the clipping. ltold him not to do that. I
talked to the horse—just stupid things,
the main thing was the tone of my .
voice. I calm the horse, and he let me
clip his hairs without the twitch. The
owner was shocked. But it was only
common sense. Horses are simple ani-
mals. They are born on this earth to eat
hay, run fast and jump. it is people who
give a horse his problems, and then
they call me to make him happy
again.”

In short, Terry Niels restores a horse
to his true nature, which is not always
what an owner wants. That’s how Ter-
. ry differs from a trainer. A trainer

modifies a horse’s behavior through
discipline howsoever an owner wish-
es. Terry refuses to do that. He men-
tions the case of a 14-year-old trail
horse who had spent six years in stud
before being castrated. Whenever an-
other horse tried to pass him on the
trail, the14-year-old would kick him.
The owner called Terry, who soon got
to the heart of the matter. “Even
though the horse had been made a
gelding,” Terry says, “in his mind he
was still a stud, a leader. In the pas-
ture with other horses, he acted like a
leader and they treated him like one.
That was his natural personality.” Ter-
ry told the owner he wouldn’t change
the horse’s behavior and suggested
simply that the horse always be al-
lowed to lead on the trail.

Another owner called Terry about a
horse that seemed to get spooked
without provocation. Terry spent
' three days simply observing the
horse before deciding it wasn’t dan-
gerous. (“After all,” Niels says, “I am
not the stuntman.") Then he began to
talk to the horse, to play with him,
feed him, groom him, clean his stall.
The first time Terry rode him, the
horse was fine until they passed a car
on the road. At first Terry thought the
horse was afraid of all cars, but no
other car provoked that reaction. The
car was white, so Terry began to
wonder whether the horse was only
frightened by white cars. Then one
day he visited the horse wearing a
white shirt. The horse seemed un-
easy, and the next day Terry dressed
entirely in white. Sure enough, the
horse was a nervous wreck. “It was
the color white that spooked him,"
says Niels. ”l don’t know why, maybe
something from his past. So I wear
white every day until finally he relax
around me. Then, after a month, l
CONTINUED

 

 

.'. '3‘;
3:)

c

‘Q

I

- .

.

C

“a ’ . _ 5

. . . r. ,

~ .5 A. '.

v 4.

' \

..

. 9 e- C
e

a j '

.‘ ". .,
If
37;
5; ,5;

3 \

§
.5!

s
.‘

‘ Q

a;

N5 .' '5
r .- 2' .-‘- .1- i 5, gm
.., 5 \' . .- -- =, f .1‘, ~ , ‘_ w y; -»' <-.~.\-.
$5. ‘*- ‘ J .5 $5 . . . X \ {3‘5“ «x *5 ’

When it’s time for two-footed companion— '

ship, Niels (on the ropes at his town house)
turns to his girlfriend, Marlene Saracino.

lln theJoh ,. . ‘

paint his stall white. He did not react.
He was cured.”

Niels claims that horses’ psychologi-
cal problems stem from a simple fact
of their nature. “A horse is not clever,”
he says, “but he has a lot of memory.”
Most disturbing equine memories, Ter-
ry believes, have something to do
with a person. That’s why Terry spends
almost as much time trying to reorder
the psychology of a horse’s owner as
he does the owner’s horse. “Some
owners calm themselves by beating
their horses,” Niels says. “Then the
horse becomes dangerous, and they
call me. Some owners ride their horse
once a month and then turn him over to
their groom. Next month they wonder
why their horse is nervous when they
ride him. Some owners are nervous or
fearful when they get on their horse.
He reacts and they wonder why. But a
horse is not a motorcycle. He is not
there just to please. The owner and the
horse must be happy together.”

Niels is a soft-looking man with timid
blue eyes. He wears brightly colored
silk shirts and lots of gold jewelry that
seem, on him, a mimicry of the flashy
South Florida style. He seems to have

‘ acquired, like many of the horses he
’ works with, certain traits that are for-

eign to his nature and background. He
is a simple, uncomplicated man who is
ill at ease around people until he be-
gins talking about his passion. He will
go on for hours about horses until
abruptly, in mid—sentence, he will stop,
lower his eyes and say, “But maybe
you are not interested in that, heh?”
Born in Belgium and raised in Swit-
zerland, where his father was a restau-
rateur, Terry began riding horses at 8
CONTiNUED

and in his teens competed successful-

, ly in dressage and jumping. After get-

ting a university degree in hotel man-
agement, Niels took a job in Lausanne,
working 15 hours a day at a job he

didn’t like very much—dealing with the
problems of his staff and his guests. “l
had a reputation of being too nice,” he
says. “It was a weakness in business,
but not with horses.”

At 25, he quit the restaurant world

and hung out his shingle as a horse
psychologist and trainer. He had few
clients. People in Europe were not

sure just what a horse psychologist

was, and they were not inclined to en-
trust their expensive horses to him.
Terry decided to emigrate to America
where, as he puts it, “a person can

start something new.”

After selling Orson he immediately
encountered different problems. The
hot Florida weather was not good for
horses. Nor were most of them very ex-
pensive. Terry found it difficult to
charge an owner $500 to cure a dis-
turbed $1,000 horse. So he told owners
that his fee would be only $200 if he tried
to cure their horse and couldn’t. The
first question American owners asked
was, “How long will it take you to cure
my horse?” Terry tried to explain that if
he had two horses of the same breed,
the same age and with the same prob-
lem, he might be able to cure one in four
days and the other in four weeks. “I
can’t explain it,” he says. “But I am pa-
tient. Sooner or later people in America
will learn how good I am for a horse. I un-
derstand him. I can work with a horse for
15 hours a day and not feel I am working
at all.” El

.1

Why the long face, buddy? Niels passes
the time with a nodding acquaintance on a
visit to Doleebra Farm in Pompano Beach.

 

 

 




SAN FRANCISCO CHRONICLE - April 24, 1986

Bodega Bay's Cats cmd Dogs
Mysteriously Disappearing

By George Snyder

”First it was the birds, now
t’s the cats and dogs providing
ill? mystery in Bodega Bay.

. The Sonoma coastal town is
where much the 19603 Alfred Hitch-
cock thriller “The Birds” was
filmed. In it, birds seemed to prolif-
erate in outlandish and threatening
numbers.

The cats and dogs are doing
just the Opposite -- vanishing —
and nobody seems ,to know why.

In the past several months,
nearly two dozen dogs and cats have
disappeared from this windswept
fishing town, according to Sonoma
County Humane Society officials.

’ Others have been found poi
soned or peppered with birdshot. At
least one skinned dog was found in
recent weeks in a crab net, used as

.m~.._.

bait for the carrion-eating crusta-

I

ceans.

Humane Society officials have
posted offers of a $500 reward in
local shops and stores, asking for
possible suspects in the bizarre pet
killings and disappearances.

“We don’t have any informa-

tion as to why this is happening." ,

said Humane Society spokeswoman
Pam Brewer. “We don‘t have any
real suspects. We’ve’been trying to
piece together the facts, but none of
the local peonle have had anything

like this happen as far as they can
remember,” she said. “It’s really
strange. We don’t know what s go-
ing on.”

Neither do Bodega Bay pet lov-
ers.
“We keep our little toy poodle

under lock and key,” said Howard
Marshall in front of his seasxde

home.

His young grandson, Joey,
played next to him as a small gray
cat walked up andpurred.

“This cat’s name is Killer,” Mar-
shall said. “He lives across the
street. He was poisoned some weeks
ago. He looks better now, but he
sure was in bad shape."

“We never let Babe, our poodle,
out of our sight,” he said. “You nev-
er know anymore.”

Killer’s mistress, Serena Putz,
who works in a local delicatessen,
said she was puzzled by her cat’s
apparent poisoning.

“Killer never left home. Then a
month ago he was gone for a week.
When he came back he was real

. sick. I don’t know what happened to
' him. It was like someone kidnaped

him. He was generally a pretty laid-

——-—-—-———_

back cat. Now he’s really freaked
out. It’s really weird."

Dave Olsen, a waiter at the
Tides Restaurant at Bodega Bay,
first brought the case of the missing
cats to the attention of county ani-
mal authorities. Olsen has been
bringing home stray cats left in
town by tourists and said he knows
of more than 20 cats missing from
his and a neighbor's home during
the last year and a half.

“I thought I was doing them a
good deed,” he said, “but now I’m
not so sure. So many of them have

been vanishing or been wounded. ,

The last cat came home with shot-
gun wounds. I used to have nine at a
time and now, all of a sudden, I’m
down to one.”

LOS ANGELES TIMES - 4/26/86

: Biologists Free
"Condor After

Tests for Lead

VENTURA (B—A‘ California

condor has been freed after being ’
i‘ given a clean bill of health and ,
i fitted with a new radio tracking
; transmitter by biologists working 1
to save the giant birds from extinc-
' ion.

The 14-year-old male bird was ‘

released Thursday in a remote area
_' about 100 miles northwest of Los
1’ -. Angeles, said Peter Bloom, who
2 heads the capture program at the

Condor Research Center in Ven-
tura.

The vulture-like bird, captured

; Tuesday, .was set free in hopes that
' , it would Join the three other con-
j,_ dors believed to remain in the wild.

, “Those four birds represent a
breeding pair and mm bachelor

‘ _- males,” Bloom said.

Another condor, believed to be
10 years old, was captured Monday
and sent to the Los Angeles Zoo,
where officials hope it will breed
with a captive female. ‘

The condor captured Tuesday
had been tested and found to be
free of high concentrations of lead
that killed its mate in January.
Condors usually get lead poisoning
from feeding on carcasses of ani-
mals killed by lead shot.

The zoo now has four males and
eight females, and there are five
males and five females at the San
Diego Wild Animal Park. ‘

 

 

 




 

Friday, April 25, 1986

 

1;“ .
m
_ By L. A. Chung

imal abuse in research and teaching fa-
cilities ‘were arrested as they blocked
building entrances at three Bay Area uni-
"versities yesterday.

- The event was part of a nationwide protest
at 23 universities from New York to California.

A dozen protesters were peacefully arrest-
ed at the University of California at San Fran-
cisco, 21 at UC Berkeley and 19 at Stanford
University.

Fourteen peOple were arrested at UC Davis
in Yolo County, 48 at UCLA when they partici-
pated in a human chain in front of the School of
Public Health, 10 who chained themselves to a
..door at UC Irvine and eight at the University of
Southern California. ,

, Unfurling a banner saying, “Stop the
Abuse,” protesters at UCSF sat down in the
skywalk connecting the Animal Care Facility
and the Health Sciences West building, where
laboratories are located. Outside, about 20 peo-
ple picketed with placards showing lab animals
and asked UC to meet four demands.

0
ﬂ .

‘ “I’m not a little old lady in tennis shoes
“complaining about all animal research,” said
'John Oliver, a veterinarian who is suppOrting a
ballot initiative in Mendocino prohibiting the
sale of county animal shelter dogs to UCSF.

“Animal research has provided tremen-
qlous, necessary knowledge in heart surgery

 

 

Fifty-two people opposing alleged an-

s Protest

Scores Arrested

and orthopedic surgery,” said Oliver, who was
not arrested. “What I’m objecting to is the-use
of people’s lost pets from the pound.”

Mendocino and Stockton sell county shel- .

ter dogs to UCSF. Dogs constitute 1.2 percent,
or 250 of the 20,000 animals at the university at
any given time. Cats provide 0.4 percent. Nine-
ty percent, or 18,000, are rodents, said Dr. Jo-
seph Spinelli, director of UCSF’s Animal Care
Facility. The university also experiments on
rabbits, monkeys, sheep and sea anemones.

The protesters’ demands included, un-
scheduled access to research facilities by ex-
perts chosen by animal rights groups, protec-
tion of students who object to participating in
vivisection or dissection, a ban on the use of
animals from shelters and discussions with ani-
mal rights representatives on phasing out ani-
mal experiments. .

In a written response, UC Vice President
William Frazer said the university is monitored
by several agencies. He said the university
bought “abandoned dogs and cats that would
otherwise be killed.” '

Spinelli said all animals at the labs and at
the university’s Hunters Point facility were
being treated humanely and were anesthetized
before procedures were performed on them.

UCSF already gives 24-hour access to its facili- .

ties to the San Francisco Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals, Spinelli said.
Agencies such as the US. Department of Agri-
culture and the National Institutes of Health
also have such access.

‘ San franrisro (Ehmnirlc . .

 

By Alex (.lnus
Anne Tiller and several others were arrested at UCSF near a research building

 




 

NEWSWEEK - May 6, 1096

33.. .- . . .,i; I
- - - . ".,“_. V, . . ‘
' I ‘ ' ‘ ,‘u

 

 

 

 

For millions of Americans, an inability to hear normal

conversation is the first sign of deafness. It is also the
beginning of a lifetime of loneliness.

Today, there are 17.5 million profoundly deaf or
severely hard-of—hearing people. It’s our leading
handicap.

Dogs for the Deaf rescues unwanted dogs from
shelters, trains them for 4-6 months to respond to
smoke and fire alarms, telephones or TTY, a baby
crying, oven buzzer, alarm clock, prowlers and
other sounds.

A trained Hearing Ear Dog makes life for a deaf
person safer and a lot less lonely.

Dogs are trained and delivered free throughout the
entire United States.

Dogs for the Deaf is a tax exempt, fully non-profit
organization in service to man and dog.

To learn how you or your organization can fund a
Hearing Ear Dog, pay for the rescue of a dog, support
the feeding, training and placement of a dog or provide
for Dogs for the Deaf in a will or trust, please
write or call:

Dogs for the Deaf
15260 Highway 238
Jacksonville, OR 97550
(503) 899-7177

Space has been provided as a public service by this publication.

 

 

 

 

PHILADELPHIA MAGAZINE

May 1986

’ Chicks and sex
f Re the article about chick-sexing in your

March issue—I couldn’t help wondering
how many of your readers know how they
destroy the male chicks. They are stuffed
into a plastic bag and left to suffocate.
One of the main thrusts of the animal
rights movement is in the area of factory
farming. As a city dweller all my life, I
was shocked to learn that chickens and
pigs do not roam around freely like in the

. movies (laying hens spend the year of their

useful existence crammed nine to a cage
the size of a folded newspaper), and that
veal calves are taken immediately from
their mothers at birth, chained in a crate
where they cannot move, fed an anemic
diet, and denied even the companionship

of other animals. Several animal groups,
; among them FARM and PETA, both in
1 Washington, DC, and Beauty Without

Cruelty in New York City, are instrumen-
tal in calling the public’s attention to the
modern methods of factory fanning, ed-
ucating people to more healthy and hu-
mane eating habits, and helping to make
the industry more humane by working with
farm groups. Philadelphia Magazine, with
its excellent resources and reporters, could
probably do an excellent feature on this
issue and animals rights in general, and I
hope to see such an article in your pages
in the future.

I was struck by the last paragraph in
the article, where Mr. Nitta, the chick-
sexer interviewed, very neatly removed
himself from the responsibility of what
happens to the male chicks by stating that
he did not dispose of them; he only sep—
arated the males from the females. To Mr.
Nitta and others in this ﬁeld, I have only
to say this: If you know what happens to
these little creatures, and you are part of
the process leading up to their deaths, you
are just as guilty as the person who stuffs
them into the plastic bag to kill them.

ARLENE STEINBERG
Philadelphia

 




 

l' WOMAN S m “45173986 Scales of Justice Inuktitut

She helped
save pouches,
but in the eyes
of the law, she
was barking up
the wrong tree.

by Cy Egan

By her own admission, Jan Maas has

"never been fanatical about preserv-
ing wildlife.” Still, she was shocked
when, four years a 0, she found that
dogs were being so d for medical ex-
periments near her home in New
Ulm, Minnesota.

"I’ve always loved animals, ever
since I was a kid,” says Jan, a 29-
year-old single parent. "When a girl-
friend who used to work in a research
lab told me what they did to those
poor dogs, I couldn’t believe my ears.

"How could ople who professed
to be interested): helping mankind
do such terrible things to defenseless
animals? How could people get into
the business of buying and selling
. animals to be subjected to unspeak-
able tortures?”

These uestions troubled Jan for
months. hen, in February of last
year, an idea took shape during a cof-
fee klatch with friends.

"We got to talking about what
could be done,” Jan says. “It was all
very informal, but we agreed to orga-

nize a group called The Dog Team to
rescue these animals. Some of us had
. Dog Team jackets printed up, so
everythin was out in the open.”

At ﬁrst, The Do Team conﬁned it-
self to educating tlg'ie public about an-
imal research and warning dog own-
ers against selling their pets to re-
search laboratories.

A major object of the group’s con-
cern was a kennel outside New Ulm,
whose owner, Morris Hippert, was
licensed by the U. S. De artment of
Agriculture to acquire ogs and sell
them to labs in Minneapolis and
Rochester.

"We’d heard of commando raids on
kennels, and a couple of women in
our group decided to do the same
thing,” says Jan. “They drove out to
Hippert’s farm and rescued seven
dogs. Apparently, they ran into Hip-
o rt’ 5 brother asked him if the

* "'1" l 22%.:

Dog 3 Best Fnend

Above, Dog Team
member and animal
lover Jan Maas with
her own pooch; left,
Jan with her son,
Travis.

 

could have the dogs
and he agreed. So
they just loaded up
the van and left. It
was as simple as
that.”

Jan says that
when her friends ar-
rived at her house.
she had no idea

I where or how they
had gotten the dogs.
Then she noticed the Department of
Agriculture tags on the animals,
and "I kind of knew something was
up,” she says. "My major concern
was getting homes for the dogs. And
in less than one week, we had found a
nice home for every one of them,” ex-
plains J an.
Higpert—whose brother denied
that e had given permission for the
"pdogna ing”—reported the inci-
dent to the Nicollet County sheriff’s
ofﬁce, which about this time was
tip ed off that Jan now had a yard
fulfofdogs.

"Naturally, a few of them got out
and started barking” Jan recalls.
"Someone told the sheriff, who came
around with a Department of Agri—
culture investigator to question me.
Fortunately, we’d already relocated
all the dogs. The sheriff tried to get
me to sa that I knew the ‘d been

taken from Hip ert. Finally, they
asked me 1f I wou l)d just turn over the
dog tags. They gave me the Impres-
sion that if I did, that would end the
matter. So, foolishly, I turned them
over, and with that, they arrested
me and hauled me off to jail,” ex—
plains Jan.

Maas was charged with theft, con-
spiracy and aiding and abetting
criminal damage to property. Each
charge, if proven, carried a maxi-
mum sentence of 90 days and a $700
ﬁne. Authorities offered to let her off
the hook 1f she implicated others, but
Jan refused.

"I took the heat ” she says. "The
Dog Team had a rior understand-
ing that if any 0 us got in trouble
with the law. that person would take
sole responsibility and not involve
the others.”

After months of delay, Jan Maas
was allowed to plead guilty to a sin-
gle charge She was given a “4—
sentence of one year’s unsu-
pervised probation and or-
dered to make restitution for
the dogs, $12.50 apiece, and to
pay $50 in court costs. She was
also ordered to do community
service work for the local hu-
mane society.

‘ Today, Jan is still passion-
ate in her feelings about cruel-
ty to animals.

"The Do Team has mel—
lowed out a it, but we remain
active in taking care of, and ‘ ‘
finding good homes for, aban- ’
doned pets,” she says.

Althouh a court order for-

bids her to interfere with the collec-
tion and shipment of dogs to medical
research centers, Jan is heartened
that movements similar to that 01
The Dog Team have sprung up all
over the country.

"There’s a lot of feeling out there
about the horrible things that are
being done to those animals,” she as-
serts.

"People simply don’ t feel it 5 right
that dogs are being slaughtered
when rats and mice and hamsters
can be used in experiments with
equal effectiveness.

"I intend to obey the court order
but I have no regrets about our Dog
Team. We tried to do the right thing.
We did what we thought was com-
passionate and humane.” *

Jan contemplates man’s
inhumanity to dog.

 




Mashmgton CITE/BS

l‘MSHlNGTC-N IDOSIER —

May 1986

 

 

 

CAPITAL CANINES
The Mighty Dogs
of Washington

Dogmatically speaking, no
other city can match Washing-
ton’s elite mix of accomplished

 

canines. We have diplomatic
doggies, power barkers, big-
business mongrels, sports
stars, news hounds and dogs
of war.

For this and other reasons,
we inaugurated the Capital
Canine Follies, a celebrity dog
show that beneﬁts the Capital

Children’s Museum/National
Learning Center. This year’s
show, sponsored and catered
by Kal Kan, will once again
be at the museum, the na-
tion’s foremost hands-on learn-
ing center. WMAL radio’s
Harden and Weaver are the
hosts. And I, Jasper Meese

 

(Ed and Ursula’s canine ex-
traordinaire), will chair the
dog-eared June event.

Profiled below are some of
Washington’s leading “doers.”
Join them and other prominent
pooches at the Children’s
Museum, Third and H streets
NE, June 8 from 1 to 4 pm.

 

Now that Lucky Reagan is “

a confirmed Valley Girl (Santa
Ynez), the nation’s reigning
ﬁrst pooch is Rex Reagan.

' Young Rex Reagan makes his
ofﬁcial Washington debut as
“honorary petron” of the ‘ ' '
Capital Canine Follies. '

‘ Rex Reagan moved to
Washington last December, a
_‘ surprise Christmas gift (ar-

” ranged by William and Pat

Buckley) from the president to

Nancy Reagan. Clearly, Rex
.. and the ﬁrst lady have taken
- an immediate liking to one

’ another. Like Mrs. Reagan,
Rex is elegant, lithe and
reﬁned—the epitome of a
King Charles Cavalier spaniel.

 

Rex Reagan

Age: 1V2

Breed: King Charles Cavalier
spaniel '

Best Friends: Nancy and
Ronald Reagan

Sleeping quarters: comfy
cushion with favorite toys
Appetite: one meal a day
suffices .

Pet peeves: anyone w
comes charging at him

Most often found: next to
({Mommyi’

Latest accomplishment:
winning the Reagans’ hearts
Goal: to sleep until noon
Quote: “It’s a good life.”
Proﬁle: those big expressive
eyes!

 

 

 

 

Junket Aspin

Age: 11
Breed: mutt

 

Best Friends: Les Aspin (D-
Wisc.) and Maureen Shea
Sleeping quarters: right in
Les’ office

Appetite: always appreciates
a good meal

Pet peeves: Capitol Hill
roaches

Most often found: meeting
and greeting members of
Congress

Latest accomplishment:
overseeing the overseer of
Congress

Goal: to nap daily in the
speaker’s office

Quote: “Who needs a big of-
fice when you can just be
comfortable in any old one?”
Proﬁle: adorable and knows
it. As ubiquitous around the
Hill as any veteran lobbyist

 

Sonja Wysocki

Age: 2

Breed: bulldog

Best Friends: Pete Wysocki
and fellow bulldog Coach
Sleeping quarters: pent-
house kennel

Appetite: will eat New
Jersey if given the chance
Pet peeves: don’t even bring
a vacuum cleaner nearby
Most often found: listening
to Pete’s WMAL sports

 

broadcasts .

Latest acComplishment:
destroying Pete’s house
without breaking a single nail
Goal: to get Pete in good
enough shape to rejoin the
Redskins

Quote: “I hope to meet that
special someone at the Kal
Kan Capital Canine Follies.”
Profile: More personality
than a pretty face. A bottom-
less pit of affection

 

 

 




 

 

Bridgette Chambelle Bell

Age: 14

Breed: pedigreed poodle
Best friends: Steve and
Joyce Bell

Sleeping quarters: Steve’s
leather chair

Appetite: exceedingly fussy
Pet peeves: garbage men
Most often found: in the
way

Latest accomplishment:
scaring away the garbage men
Goal: to cohost “Good Mom-
ing America” with Steve
Quote: “I only watch GMA,
even though some of my best
friends’ best friends are on the
other networks.”

Profile: slower these days,
but steady—a telegenic
presence

 

Leader Dole

Age: 4
Breed: schnauzer
Best Friends: Washington’s
“power couple,” Bob and
Elizabeth Dole
Sleeping quarters: at the
foot of Bob and Elizabeth’s
bed ‘
Appetite: will do anything
for a bone
Pet peeves: men in uniforms
Most often found:
schmoozing at either Bob or
Elizabeth’s office
Latest accomplishment:
begging (successfully) for
treats
Goal: an ofﬁce in the White
House
Quote: “Desperately seeking
the cute schnauzer I sniffed
by the DOT office.”
Profile: sexy, confident, great
sense of humor. A vigorous
campaigner

— Connie Coopersmz’th

 

 

 

 

Anabell’s F ile

NO DEAVER DEAL: Saatchi &
Saatchi, t e British PR firm
that was s’pposed to buy the
Mike Dea er ﬂackery for

$18 mil, are ooking elsewhere.

Wasn’t the oney but the
Deaver mouth that scared
them off A an
Khashoggi, w 0 gave AU
megabucks to b 'd a sports
center, reportedly 's pulling in
his financial horns. '

Nabila, a few jets

Not to worry. There’s

over Irony of ironies.
Karen Feld, whose f 'y
owns the Ringling circus, the
spectacle that brings joy to:
kids of all ages, now is wor -
ing for the local Moonie
paper, owned by a cult leade
who has brought pain and
misery to lots of other peo-

ple’s kids and their parents

DIPLOMATIC DISARRAY: It’s
Dippidy—Do-YourOmr-Thing
time at State with bad boy
ambassadors with the “right
connections” driving George
Shultz up the wall
Watergate maven Nick Salg
refusing to step down in Hur -
gary Vatican envoy and
Reagan best friend oil man
Bill Wilson making private
overtures to “Mad Dog
Muammar” Octogenarian
former Sen. Mike Mansfiel
finally agreeing to retire after
hanging on in Tokyo despite
grumblings for a more youth—
ful look. But Shultz got to
kick the dog by checkmating

 

Jessie Helms’ choice for en-

voy to Belize, James
Malone, who got turned
down by a Senate committee
in a trailblazing heave-ho.

HEARD AROUND: The

mutual admiration society of
Ardeshir Zahedj and the
family of the late shah of Iran
is getting frayed around the

 

edges after alleged reports
that the former empress had
to shell out muc o dinero in a
settlement for wings to the

ing in town? He’ll be doing
his research in the hoosegow
s rtly, after pleading guilty to
s lling fraudulent tax shelters.

HE BUILDING GAME:
Realtors report that homes in
the $500,000 range are going
like hotcakes Even though
million-dollar sales are off, the
Godfrey McHughs, who are
moving to Palm Beach, sold

their Partridge Lane house for
1,2 $1.3 million to Bob and
ifeggy Lee White

ongsun Park is back in

t wn, throwing parties and
gifting gifts. The mysterious
Korean has purchased a house
in pxhall Crescents.

comm SECRETS: Did you
know ‘that the vaults of Amer-
ican e bassies are chock—full
of gold lcoins for emergencies?
The cac e, a veritable trea—
sure ches , is supposed to con-
tain billion‘s. Suggestions to
sell off the coins and put the
money bac in the Treasury
have created thorny problems
for bureaucra 5 who fear it
would severel depress the
numismatic m ket.

Dabroski and Dale Men-
delsohn to Adm. Howard
Greer, ret. ,

 

 

 




LOS ANGELES TIMES Magazine - March 30, 1986

f ' An Outlaw and a Gentleman

I recently made the ac-
quaintance of Sherman,
a very unusual horse. I’d
heard his story before I met
him, but was still unpre-
pared for the 13-year-old
red roan horse with the
large, soft eyes. Given his
past, I expected to see a
few fiery snorts issuing
forth from his nostrils.
He’d been shuffled from
owner to owner, tried at
many things, including a
short bout on the race
track. He couldn’t be
caught in his stall. One
“problem horse” trainer
had even wrapped barbed
wire around Sherman’s bit
to control him. But Sher-
man wouldn’t cooperate.
He earned the label of out-
law. He just couldn’t seem
to find his place in life.

Then one day several
years ago, Sherman met up
with Rick Hawthorne, a
very unusual person. The
meeting was arranged at
the request of a friend of
Hawthorne, who thought
the two of them might get
along. Hawthorne is into an
unusual form of horseman-
ship called vaulting, which

BY KATHLEEN BROWN

.'... an" > $54,.

e the darling of the Valley View Vaulters.

Sherman has found a purpose in life, and becom

is the art of performing horse suddenly

Richard Ruthsatz

stops, sport, and Hawthorne was

gymnastics on a moving
horse. Not just any moving
horse will do. It takes a
well-trained, gentle, relia-
ble sort of horse.
Consider the trust that
you must place in a moving
horse if you’re doing, say, a
“stand” (which is just as it
sounds) on his back. If the

changes gaits or skitters to
one side, you might find
yourself ﬂying through the
air. Or what would happen
if several vaulters were
mounted at once and the
horse decided to buck? In
short, it seemed preposter-
ous that Sherman would be
a likely candidate for this

justifiably dubious about
his friend’s request that he
give Sherman a try.

But it was finally Sher-
man’s turn to have some-
thing work out. When Haw-
thorne vaulted onto the
horse’s back for the first
time, Sherman continued

Continued

 

circling calmly, as though he was
quite familiar with what was expect—
ed. The next time Sherman was used
for vaulting, three people leaped on
his back, performing what’s known as
a triple. When Hawthorne tells the
story, you’d think Sherman had been a
vaulting horse in a past life.
According to Hawthorne, it can
take months to develop a good vault-
ing horse, which must circle at a con-
sistent pace for 15 to 20 minutes at a
stretch while as many as three vaulters
mount and do intricate acrobatics. Af-
ter a brief three weeks of training,
Sherman made his competitive debut.
One example of Sherman’s excep-
tional aptitude for vaulting occurred
at a show where he was inadvertently
entered in a class where he was to
circle to the right. Sherman had only
worked to the left. While a casual
observer might assume that a horse
could simply reverse and go the other
way with equal ease, that is not always
the case. Horses are usually better

 

 

going one way or the other—just as
some people are right-handed and
other people left-handed. And al-
though it’s the vaulters, not the horse,
who are judged in competition, the
animal’s even pace and action can
determine the score for the vaulter.
Sherman’s place in the annals of
vaulting history was assured when—
going against his preference—he
earned first-, second- and third-place
awards for his individual vaulters.
But all that was years ago. Nowa-
days, he’s the idol of Valley View
Vaulters in Tujunga, a team that Haw-
thorne and his partner, Virginia
Manges, have organized. Vaulters
range from age 4 to adult; many have
physical handicaps. The day I met
Sherman, one child accidentally
rolled his wheelchair nearly under
the horse’s belly. Sherman only
nudged the contraption and stood pa-
tiently until order was restored.

 

So how is it that this one-time rogue
came to be the darling of Valley View
Vaulters? Well, if Sherman remembers
that he was once called outlaw, he’s
too much of a gentleman to reveal his
past. One can see that by the way he

; lowers his head so even the smallest
vaulter can pay her respect. The team

clusters around the blaze-faced horse
at every opportunity, clinging affec-
tionately to his legs and tumbling be-
neath his feet. He likes being appreci~

, ated. He even likes the rows of braids

and bows sewn into his mane for com-
petition, arching his neck and step-
ping proudly when it’s his turn to
perform. His hoofbeats are the heart-
beat of the team. How could any
horse, even a former outlaw, not re-
spond to that kind of love? E]

 




Tribune photo by James Mayo
Chatt , an 85-pound greyhound, takes Tuesday’s press conference
in stride as Frantz L. Dantzler and Judith Donaldson outline why
they think dog racing should not be allowed in Illinois.

 

Animal-welf are backers

33“ ‘

up“
.i
w

protest dog-racing bill '

By John Camper

While an 85-pound greyhound
named Chatty watched. impassive—

ly, animal welfare advocates de- -

nounced a bill Tuesday to legalize
dog racing in Illinois, sa ing it
would cause the deaths 0 thou-
sands of dogs and other small
animals.

They said the sport, conducted
legally in 15 states, results in the
destruction each year of 30,000 to
50,000 greyhounds that fail to
make the grade as racers, plus an-
other 100,000 rabbits, chickens’
and guinea pigs that are torn apart
by the dogs in bloody training ses-
sions.

“Dog racing is a blood sport,
since greyhounds in training are
allowed to attack and viciously kill
other animals,” Frantz L.
Dantzler, director of the North

‘Central regional office of the
Humane Society of the United

States, told a news conference at
the offices of the Anti-Cruelty So—
ciety, 510 N. LaSalle St. .

He estimated that nearly 90 per-
cent of racing dogs are killed by
the age of 4, when have become
too slow.

“Racing greyhounds are disposa-
ble inventory, paper plates at a
picnic,” said Chatty’s owner,
Judith Donaldson, head of the
state chapter of an anti—dog-racing
group called Run or Die.

Donaldson scoffed at claims that
legalized dog betting would raise
$65 million a year for the state.

“The children of Illinois would
not want to be educated with
money garnered from the corpses
of 20,000 gentle, innocent dogs,”

she said. - ,
Bills to legalize parimutuel dog

racing have been routinely defeat—

ed in the General Assembly for

many years, largely because _of op— ‘

position from the horse-racmg in-
dustry, which fears the competi-
tion for bettors’ dollars. '

In an effort to overcome that
opposition, this year’s bill allows
horse tracks to hold dog races and
prohibits new dog tracks from
opening within 55 miles of a horse
track.

The animal welfare advocates
said they believe the dog interests
may couple their bill with state aid
for rebuilding the fire-ravaged Ar-

lington Park Race Track in Ar—.

lington Heights. But Arlington
Park’s owner, Richard Duchossois,
said: “If they are, this is the ﬁrst
I’m hearing about it.”

A dog-racing bill, sponsored by
Sen. Frank Savickas [D., Chicago],
was narrowly approved last week
by the Senate Insurance, Pensions
and Licensed Activities Committee
and awaits action on the Senate
ﬂoon

Gary Guccione, secretary—trea-
surer of the National Greyhound
Association in Abilene, Kan., said
the humane society figures were
“wildly exaggerated.”

“We register only 26,000 new

greyhounds a year, so if 50,000

were being killed each year we
would have run out of dogs long
ago,” he said. He said many re-
tired greyhounds are sold as pets
or put to stud, and that the rest
are destroyed humanely.

“There’s nothing wrong with de-
stroying unwanted animals,” Guc—

cione said. “The 'animal shelters
and humane socreties kill 15 to 20

_million' dogs and cats a year.”

At dog races, the greyhounds
chase a mechanical rabbit around
a track. But the dogs usually train-
by chasing live jackrabbits until
they catch and mutilate them,
Dantzler said.

After the jackrabbits, the next
phase of training, Dantzler said,
involves live rabbits, guinea pigs,
chickens or kittens, suspended
from a pole that moves around a
small circular track to simulate ac—
tual‘racing conditions. He said the
dogs are eventually allowed to at-
tack the suspended animal as a re-
ward.

John P. Dailey, a Peoria banker
who hopes to open a dog track;
there, said he would be willing tol
amend the bill to ban the use of
live bait in Illinois, but Dantzler
said that would do no good.

“Most greyhounds are bred and
trained in Kansas, Texas and Flor-
ida and then shipped to racetracks
thrOUghout the country,” he said.

Guccione, of the greyhound as;
sociation, also denied Dantzler’s
charge that many racing
greyhounds “live virtually their en-
tire lives” in small crates.

“We’ll compare our average ken-
nels. with the best the humane so-
creties have to offer,” Guccione
said. “These dogs are athletes, and
they have to be cared for properly
if they’re going to compete as
athletes.

“You wouldn’t keep the Chicago
Cubs cooped up in a crate.”




MEMPHIS COMMERCIAL APPEAL - May 1, 1986

 

 

By Dave Darnell

Love life
perks up
for gorilla

‘Mellow felloW’
has blind date

By John Beifuss:
7 Staff Reporter

 

 

Carlos the gorilla is being
sent out to stud.

The 4SO-pound Romeo will
leave the Memphis Zoo for
North Carolina today to do
what he does best: siring
chips off the simian block.

“Carlos is going on tempo-
rary duty, as we say,” zoo di—
rector Charles Wilson said of
the 16-year-old ape. “He is a
proven breeder male. He’s in
his prime.”

That’s why the North Caro-
lina Zoo chose Carlos over
other anthropoid lotharios

. when it needed to borrow a
male to mate with its female,
Hope. , ‘

Lowland gorillas are an en-
dangered species. Because
zoos no longer collect them
from the wild, an animal like
Carlos -— who fathered two
offspring during the past two
years, including Kwashi — is
extremely valuable.

Carlos and Hope were
matched through the inter-
national Species Survival
Plan, which coordinates

 

It is “temporary duty” time for Carlos.

two hairy bundles of joy ~not enough to guarantee the
“shows how willing zoos are captive survival of the spe~
cies.

breeding for some 37 captive
endangered species. The fact
that Memphis will loan him
to the Asheboro, N .C., zoo un-
til he has produced another

to relocate gorillas to achieve
reproduction,” Wilson said.
He said only about 150 go-
rillas have been born in zoos
during the past 30 years —

Carlos isconscious of to—

 

Please see APE, Page A14

 

 

'maiinetto em
air/w

01mg JaAaieqM _
'soueg 1110.1} sButql

6‘

'edoH Bunsen; altogeq'

dou

sent
doq $391
Smog

“.J3q
eq K9111

'SIBIIIIIIBUI
2 3111193
dn- eAu

‘Jatﬁtqmm

-91 em sutSaq aq Kep
“WWII“

e pezmqomwt

'Bunaeq-isaqa

o auo.tp iueisuoo am a
'OJOQGQSV 01 noun Aq Aau

 

soom 9H 'spuan aphsem sﬁep \

sAep ()9 .10} autiuemnb ut aq 11,9};
zitem 01 email mm 01 pJBMJO}
Bumoot st s

19913 01 pmmro; Sumool gram"
pres an “”5911th am ;0 139191111
Isaq 9m HI euop Bursa 81 3111.1."
403 auxn—ued pue ooz euuomg
quoN am 10 101mm [BJBUSB
‘IJGQOHGS SG’I DIES “‘UMOP mm
-o,L '81913 Butddiqs 19818 9 mm
Jeeu samoo 919m am JaAauaqm
mo smear; 9191119; em 11

01 puei 89111108 319w Aumu mam
«1111101110,. 'pIE'S UOSIIM “‘MOIIGJ
monew 9 31 sq [ins pmom 1 ‘301
deg SQIJOSBD 01 pause sum 1 J1"
JO sAetdstp oqoetu new .9qu
‘KitAntsuas stq 1mm seipm am

03 109 Aaqi samuemog 'aA

ﬂamenxe ue,, st $01.19;) mg
uoneindei 9319; am 01

11119:) mm peox am no 31;;
9H1}

-.mo[ moq

1339901 DU

aq iqﬁtu 1,qu '03 a

10 ioiarno iueistsse
uoisnoH pies

9AA”

 

[

 

 

 

l

 




ATLANTA JOURNAL/CONSTITUTION - May 11, 1986

 

Martha  
‘ Woodham

 

 

 

Zoo’s Beastly FeaStis _
something tohowl about ;

Nothing succeeds like success. Less than two
years ago, 6,000 invitations promising “a night of
fun-filled gaiety” at an Atlanta Zoo gala were
mailed to prominent Atlantans. , '

But the lure of food, fun and frdlic wasn’t
enough to overcome the turmoil that surrounded the
zoo then. As a cause, the zoo ranked minus 10 on the
gift gauge of the city’s social philanthropists. Only
‘55 peOple wanted to come to the party. . .

Zoo supporters were rejoicing May 3 as Atlanta
Society went ape over this year’s Beastly Feast. Co-
chairwoman Peggy Payne said the event was a sell-
out with 400 guests and a considerable waiting list.
- Twenty-seven corporations bought tables.

“PeOple were knocking downﬂthe doors trying to
[get into this tent,” said the zoo’s top bwana Terry
Maple. “Next year we’re "going to have to have a
bigger tent.” * ’ -

' a «h a - .

Tom and Peggy Payne like to arrive in style.
Since camels wouldn’t have covered the miles from

 

Sandy Springs to Zoo Atlanta in time for the Beastly
Feast, the couple settled for a double-decker bus.
They invited about 30 friends to keep them compa—
ny, using Pano’s and Paul’s as a bus stop.

Restaurateur Dante Stephenson got to play
with one of his favorite toys at the Beastly Feast:
his 19205-vintage REO Speedwagon fire engine.
Ringing the bell with great gusto, Dante chauffeured
guests from the main gate at Zoo Atlanta to the par-
ty tents. ' ’ -

. ‘ - it a a

'Moqaxunn Jeu‘

elgwpe euAed Abbed pue we; “may. 'tseed Anseea’

 

‘tueudeIe peweuun-ieA-se 8N3 ‘1918 teemeu

out 10; 9 Raw lined dn-sseip tell; leu pepueue'
WWW 002 =LNVHdI1I ILNVJJIIIII

 

1

Baby elephant helps
host 1 1thBeastly Feast

; Had homo sapiensdropped off a
lower limb on the tree of evolution
: a few million years ago, heaven
gouty knows what kind of animals
.«ﬁ'might have assembled beneath a

l
.3
r
t.
1

,5 May‘3 at Zoo Atlanta.

;. As things turned out, a pretty
civil, lot -— most Walking erect —
Showed u for the 200’s 11th annual
Beastly east, a black-tie dinner-

 

dance that was billed as “a primate
_ affair.” ‘

:- f The play on words was apropos:
g; ’l‘he gala was planned to raise mon-
ey to help Zoo Atlanta develop the
premier public habitat for wild pri-

g.

i mates — monkeys and apes.
. ”If he builds the world’s second-
best primate center, he’s a failure,”
The Ford Co. executive vice presi-
dent of marketing, James D. Don-
aldson, said of the challenge ahead
for zoo director Terry Maple.
:1. :f‘This has to be the social event
of .the season,” said Maple. “Where
else can you have a party like this
and bring on an elephant?”
‘- ., - Sure enough, mingling among
the 400 guests attending a cocktail
hour before dinner was a 3-year-old
1 elephant about the size of a Volks-
Zwagen. Little No-Name-Yet was al-
_lowed to stay up past her bedtime
-«_-- until 8:30 pm. - to greet guests.
Inside the tent, however, the
. only beasts allowed to dine were

i
i
K
a
%
.5,
ii
r
i
E
,5
i

those who could use a knife and

, fork.

billowing blue-and-white striped tent

The Ford Motor Co., which pre-

' 3sented the zoo with a ”00.000

lcheck last October to help get the
:primate program rolling, paid an-
-other $30,000 to sponsor Beastly
iFeast. Maple said he expected the
:zoo would raise some $60,000 .from

A fthe $125-per-person affair.

_~ The most blatant fashion faux
Zpas of the evening was committed
:by a woman in a dress that ap-
peared to have been made of the
’skin of an endangered species of
"cat.

I A A

 




TBA S

M‘ mu

.lﬁfllﬁﬁﬁitﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁ

beagle Jackpot, this bag in" of contraband food is on route to the quarantine center.

Having been smelled out by triumphant

 




 

PEOPLE MAGAZINE - May 12, 1986

FOOD SMUGGLERS BEWARE!
AGENT 0- 1 -D OF THE BEAGLE BRIGADE IS
POISED TO SNIFF OUT PERPETRATORS

by Kristin McMurran

Each weekday morning a 24-pound
beagle named Jackpot has his teeth
brushed with Crest, swallows a vitamin
pill and gets suited up in a little green

coat stamped with the words “Protect- _

ing U.S. Agriculture.” He then heads for
his office, the TWA International Arriv—
als terminal at New York’s JFK Airport.
‘His mission: food detection. Jackpot is
Agent 0-1-D in the Department of Ag-
riculture’s Beagle Brigade, a canine
force trained to sniff out forbidden
fruits, vegetables and meats illegally
brought into the US. by travelers.

The customs terminal is already
abustle when Jackpot, who stands a
mere 13 inches high, starts sniffing
through a forest of foreign legs, carry—
on satchels and garment bags. When
he smells food, he sits down firmly and
turns a pair of melancholy eyes up-
ward. At the other end of his leash,
USDA officer Hal Fingerman rewards
him with a treat. After Jackpot makes a
hit, Fingerman marks the traveler’s
declaration card with a green ‘A, and
that person’s bags will be searched
when he passes through customs.
“The defense of our agriculture starts
here,” says Fingerman. “We take our
work very seriously. Our dogs don’t
bite, but our officers do.”

“Hiiii. How are you?” says Finger-
man’s fellow inspector Carlos Cara—
ballo, with a smile as wide as a water-
melon wedge. He beckons to an
unsuspecting passenger from Lisbon
whose declaration card bears one of
Fingerman’s green A’s. “Do you have
any fruta? Came? Are you sure? Sala-
mi?” The passenger smiles and shakes
his head. He is asked to open his bag.
Carlos embarks on a tour of the man’s
slacks, shirts, underwear. Out comes a
scuffed brown shoe and inside: an arti-
choke. Carlos keeps smiling, the trav-
eler looks grim. A pomegranate peers
out from another shoe, and a third
shelters a lemon and a pear. By the end
of the search there are enough comes-
tibles to feed a quirky vegetarian.
Travelers caught with contraband are
fined up to $50. Meanwhile, at another
station, inspector John Plummer is
querying a man just off a flight from
Athens, who insists he has no food. His
carry-on bag, however, is brimming

with ripe olives. Clinging to one is a
milky white worm, the size of a rice
grain, which will later be identified as
a fruit fly larva.

“Fruit flies don’t fly across the
ocean; people bring them across,”
says Fingerman. The excuses offered
by smugglers are sometimes as exotic
as their methods of deceit. Take, for
example, the man from Bangladesh
who was recently found harboring a
coconut and denied it was food. “I’m
not going to eat this coconut,” he in-
sisted, “I’m going to prayto it.” Says
inspector Fred Skolnick, “Some peo-
ple are ignorant, but you don’t wrap a
bandolier of sausages around your
bodyor stuff chorizo in your boots and
say, ‘I don’t know how it got there.’ ”

In fact, Fingerman and colleagues
have found salami concealed in per-
fume—drenched rags, fruit camou-
flaged in tins of tea leaves, snails sewn
into coat linings, sausages wrapped in
soiled diapers and mangoes tucked
into a brassiere. “Some of this stuff
just grosses you right out,” admits Fin—
german. “But I’m real nice. I don’t raise
my voice. We give people several
chances to tell the truth and make sure
they understand, but boy, when they
just lie and lie, whew, l’ll fine ’em.”

Fingerman, 33, is the only canine
handler assigned to the East Coast in
the USDA’s detector dog pilot pro—
gram, inaugurated in 1984. (Beagles
are also posted at airports in Los An-
geles and San Francisco.) For Finger-
man the job is an ideal combination of
his two loves, animals and agriculture.
Growing up in Philadelphia in a family
that cherished its dogs, ducks and
geese, he majored in animal science at
Penn State with a view to becoming a
farmer, then eight years ago joined the
Department of Agriculture. His task is
to help overworked inspectors hunt for
proscribed plant and animal products.
Fresh fruits, vegetables, many meats,
dairy products and packing materials
like burlap may shelter insects and dis—
eases that endanger agriculture and
livestock. The vigilance pays off. Last
year USDA officers seized 1,450,000
such products at the nation’s ports of
entry. More than 200,000 intercepted
items were infested with potentially

 




harmful pests and microscopic ene-
mies not indigenous to the U.S., such
as seed weevils, khapra beetles and
giant African snails. Some meats may
be carrying such devastating viral dis—
eases as hoof—and-mouth or African
swine fever; one bird with Newcastle’s
disease could obliterate the nation's
bird population.

Fingerman begins an average day
not with Jackpot, but with the dog’s
backup, a black Labrador named Behr
(Agent 1—2—A), who is too menacing to
be taken into the passenger terminal
but very effective at sniffing checked
luggage in a ground floor baggage
pit before it is delivered to the termi-

.. 77" -‘-.
- '. -~;.~.

nal. “I let him run around and get used
to every smell in the place before the
bags come in,” says Fingerman. “He
knows what he’s here for." When lug»
gage from a Barcelona-Lisbon flight
rolls into Sight, Behr’s nose starts
twitching..As airline workers slam bags
onto a moving conveyer belt. he scam—
pers among the suitcases, nuzzling
each one. “Seizure, Behr! Seizure!”
commands Fingerman. When the dog
sits, signaling a find, he is awarded his
treat and the suspect bag is pulled
from the ranks. (Among the 16 bags
seized, 14 are subsequently found to
contain food.)

Later Fingerman joins his colleagues
back in the terminal to keep an eye on
passengers while Jackpot sniffs their

At midday, Agriculture Department ofﬁcer Flngennan leads Behr through his routine;
later, partners Jackpot and Behr survey the day’s catch in the contraband room.

carry-on bags. “We don’t like to ste-
reotype," says inspector Louis Vane-
chanos. “But people who dress like vil-
lagers and carry bags tied with ropes
are more likely to bring a fig from their
backyard tree to a loved one in the
New World."

Every hit is not a seizure. Behr once
sniffed a full Concorde flight and found
nothing but gummi bears. Candy is le-
gal, as are cookies. olive oil, hard pro-
cessed cheeses and wine. But the re—
wards do not always make up for
the frustrations of the job. In the line
of duty Jackpot has been crushed,
bumped and beaned. One afternoon a
child set off a firecracker. “lt was defi-
nitely schizo time for Jackpot. He was
out of it for the rest of the day,” says
Fingerman, who has been chased by
one furious woman and humiliated by
another overwrought traveler who
splattered him with a full bottle of mus-
tar'd. “Sometimes it gets to be pretty
degrading," he says, “but I feel I’m do-
ing something positive and I like the
dogs."

Since September he has shared
quarters with Jackpot and Behr in a
beach bungalow near the airport.
“They are the center of my attention
right now,” he says. “The dogs are the
best tool the USDA has.” Fingerman
works an average 60-hour week, and
he and the dogs are frequently called
back to inspect a postmidnight flight.

By the end of the typical day, the
USDA contraband room reeks with the
dizzying odor of ripening fruit and stale
meats. The haul on a recent afternoon
included two pounds of garlic, three
dozen goose eggs, eight plucked
squabs, a Parma ham, sacks of gnarled
green beans, citrus leaves and chest-
nuts, elephant jerky, the remains of
half-eaten airline meals and enough
sausages and salami to open a corner
deli. After inspecting the contraband
for disease organisms, agents feed the
results into the mouth of a ferocious
grinder or incinerator.

It is now 7 pm, but Fingerman’s day
is not over. He brushes the dogs and
puts them through a practice drill using
dummy suitcases with food so that
they leave the airport with the memory
of positive seizures. Then he piles the
pooches into a balky station wagon
and takes them home for a high-pro—
tein meal and a run on the beach be-
fore they drift off to sleep. At day-
break, Fingerman awakens to the
whisper of hot dOQQy breath on his
face and a black paw on his pillow. The
routine has begun again. E]

Photographs by Robert Sherbow/Uniphoto

 




LOS ANGELES TIMES Magazine - March 30, 1986

The 2 Oth-Century Ar

At San Diego’s Center for Reproduction of
Endangered Species, Scientists Battle the Fall of the Wild

lonkah, one of the new chee-

tahs for the San Diego Wild Ani-

mal Park, had injured its paws

on the plane ﬂight from South

Africa, and now it lay sedated
on an operating table in the San Die-
go Zoo’s veterinary hospital.

Its injuries turned out to be slight.
But the image seemed to haunt Don-
ald G. Lindburg, a behaviorist with
the 200’s Center for Reproduction of
Endangered Species.

“Imagine how you’d feel if that
were the last living cheetah,” he said
to a visitor. “It would be a nightmare,
wouldn’t it? Well, at CRES that’s what
we’re trying to avoid.”

For the world’s threatened species,
scientists such as Lindburg and the
other staff members at the center may
be the last, best hope. Since its crea-
tion in 1975 by the Zoological Society
of San Diego, this life-science think
tank has become a leader in research
on the birth and health of exotic and
endangered creatures.

Zoological authorities estimate that
as many as three-quarters of the
world’s animal species will vanish in
the next 25 years. The International
Union for the Conservation of Nature
and Natural Resources, an ecological
monitoring organization based in
Switzerland, recognizes 1,000 endan-
gered species, which it defines as

 

john Nielsen is a free-lance writer
based in 1.05 Angeles.

AA

BY JOHN NIELSEN

 

those within 15 years of extinction.

Unless this trend is reversed, the
world could lose animals as familiar
as the elephant or as rare as the K0-
modo dragon, a giant lizard whose
ranks have thinned to about 6,000. As
civilization and industrialization ex-
pand, with rain forests transformed
into farmland and plains into cities,
animals are being crowded out of ex-
istence. A time may come when most
people will never see an animal in the
wild, because most animals will exist
behind fences.

To prevent such a bleak future,

zoos have in recent years
strengthened their research wings,
and the San Diego facility is widely
recognized as the largest and most
ambitious of its kind. Only the Lon-
don Zoo is comparable in both staff
size and multidisciplinary approach.
CRES research projects have included
the creation of a “frozen zoo” stocked
with animal cells, the development of
an aluminum water bed used to com-
fort pregnant mammals, and the in-
stallation of hormone pumps in ani-
mals who fail to breed. At the same
time, CRES has produced a torrent of
scientific papers, on subjects ranging
from iguana hormones to the sexual
habits of gorillas.

Most of its research takes place in a
two-story Spanish-style building
wedged between the zoo grounds
and the Old Globe Theater in San

 

Diego’s Balboa Park. (The Wild Ani-
mal Park, the 200’s rural “sister cam-
pus,” is in Escondido, 35 miles to the
north.) In the ’205, the building
served as the zoo hospital, but the
veterinary staff abandoned it long ago
for state-of-the-art facilities nearby.

The center, meanwhile, has turned
the building into an intellectual
MASH unit pursuing studies in virolo-
gy, pathology, genetics, endocrinolo-
gy and behavioral science. Somehow,
the staff of 25 gets its work done in
cramped offices built in what used to
be hallways and laboratories that
once were closets. Studies of animals
decorate the walls, including a chart
showing the proper way to give
mouth-to-mouth resuscitation to a liz-
ard. Arden Bercovitz, an avian repro-
ductive specialist, maintains a labora-
tory and office in a converted kitchen.
Barbara Durrant, a reproductive phys-
iologist, works in what used to be the
morgue. Receptionist Sharon Dinwid-
die, who sits in front of a sign reading
“Warning: Attack Secretary,” de-
scribes the atmosphere as “perma-
nently intense.”

The staff was, for the most part,
assembled by Dr. Kurt Benirschke, a
pathologist who retired last year after
a decade as the 200’s director of re-
search. Benirschke, whose back-
ground is in the study of human re-
production, initially built the staff to
support the 200’s captive breeding
programs. Most of the scientists were

 




“Imagine how you'd feel if that were the last living cheetah?"
examined by, from left, behavioral physiologist Terrie Williams,

lured from research programs at UC
San Diego, with others recruited from
Harvard, UCLA, UC Davis and North
Carolina State.

The center operates on an annual
budget of $1 million, with $800,000
coming from the 200’s operating
budget and the remainder from dona-
tions and fund-raisers. A drive to raise
$20 million, started by Benirschke
and the zoological society in 1979,
continues. Its goal is to endow a se-
ries of permanent research chairs for
the center and improve its facilities.

Though billions have been spent
on animal research in this country,
almost all of it has gone toward the
study of animals we eat or keep. Al-
most every study performed at the San
Diego center breaks ground in its
field, simply because most of the field
has yet to be created.

For obvious reasons, this is not a
center for surgical experiments or
studies on how to fatten livestock.
Most of its work is physically valuable

 

to the animal it saves and no one else.
An endangered species profits little
from experiments that kill it.

The center emphasizes “non-inva-
sive” research whenever possible,
without knives or needles. When it
needs a specific blood or tissue sam-
ple, the staff tries to wait until such an
animal Visits the zoo hospital, per-
haps because of quarantine or injury.

Bercovitz, for example, has spent
four years refining a procedure to de-
termine the sex of birds without de-
priving them of blood or skin. His
work—based on the discovery by for-
mer CRES endocrinologist Bill Lasley
that manure can be tested for hor-
mones—has helped solve a basic
problem for veterinarians. With about
one-third of the world’s birds, gender
cannot be ascertained visually, and
taking blood samples to determine
sex can be fatal. Until recently, in fact,
it was common for a 200 to discover
during an autopsy that a mysteriously
infertile female was actually a male,

PHOTOGRAPHS BY PATRICK DOWN

asks CRES behaviorist Donald G. Lindburg. The injured llonkah is
Lindburg, and Philip Ensley, San Diego Zoo associate veterinarian.

or that two unproductive mates were
of the same sex.

“There are roughly 8,600 species of
birds,” Bercovitz says, “and of those
maybe a dozen have been studied in
any scientific detail. We know a lot
about turkeys, chickens, ducks,
quail—things that we eat or eat from.
But to say all birds are like chickens is
to say all humans are like laboratory
mice.”

The scope of Bercovitz’s work be-
comes obvious as soon as he opens
the refrigerator in his tiny office. It is
filled with vials containing hormone
samples drawn from the droppings of
falcons, cranes and a variety of other
species. The collection includes hor-
mone samples from almost all the 26
remaining California condors.

But the most famous freezers at the
center are in a room down the hall
from Bercovitz’s office. The “frozen
zoo,” also known as the 20th-Century
Ark, is a pair of three-foot-square

Continued

 




 

 

Continued
metal tanks connected to a supply of
liquid nitrogen. Inside the tanks are
steel racks filled with semen, egg and
tissue samples from roughly 350 en-
dangered species. The liquid nitro-
gen maintains the tanks at 385 de-
grees below zero Fahrenheit. The
cells inside are suspended in a scien-
tific time warp—frozen alive and held
in indefinite limbo until they are
needed for research, or implantation
in a womb.

A fertilized egg from this icebound
menagerie could someday be used to
revive an extinct population, if suc-
cessfully implanted in a surrogate
mother. Typically, however, the sam-
ples are put to less spectacular uses,
contributing to studies of aging, evo-
lution and artificial methods of fertili-
zation and insemination. Occasional-
ly, samples are sent to other zoos. The
Bronx and Cincinnati zoos have simi-
lar collections, but San Diego’s was
the first and is the most extensive.

   

The freezers are a favorite stop on
tours of the building, and the fog that
pours forth when the lids are removed
is dramatic and seems mysterious. But
in that sense, they are misleading; the
rest of the organization looks nothing

 

‘Y ou’ll never see
a headline reading
“Pygmy Chimp Sperm
Penetrates Hamster
Egg,” but it was a
very big deal around here’

like a science-fiction movie set. On
most days the building is a warren of
closed doors, with the staff buried
under lab work, grant requests and
studies that can continue for years.
Virologist Michael Worley, for ex-
ample, has spent much of the last four
years examining the blood of leop-
ards in a laboratory on the first floor.
Snow leopards, it seems, are vulnera-

 

Reproductive physiologist Barbara Durrant at the “frozenzoo,” where live cells
from endangered species are stored for use in research or for future breeding.

 

 

 

 

   

ble in captivity to a liver disease ap-
parently caused by a hepatitis virus.
Worley concedes that finding the vi-
rus has become an obsession, driving
him to seven-day workweeks and
straining his patience in the lab.

“I realized a little while ago that I’d
been thinking of leopards ever since
1981,” he says. “We’ve had a lot of
little breakthroughs, but nothing ma‘
jor forawhile.”

The breakthroughs, when they
come, can seem obscure to out-
siders.

“You’ll never see a headline read-
ing ‘Pygmy Chimp Sperm Penetrates
Hamster Egg,’ but it was a very big
deal around here,” says Durrant, the
resident expert on artificial insemina-
tion and in-vitro fertilization. “You
say ‘animal research’ and people
think we’re in here doing all kinds of
outrageous operations. But we’re not.
We’re really very conservative.”

More often than not, the moments
of drama are unpleasant ones. Marilyn
Anderson, the 200’s director of pa-
thology, has worn a black armband
since a wild California condor died in
January at the Wild Animal Park. Like
most of her colleagues, Anderson be-
lieves that the condor died because of
complications from years of lead poi-
soning and also because it was
brought in for care too late; efforts to-
bring the bird in earlier had been
thwarted by conservationists.

Some conservation groups, includ-
ing the National Audubon Society,
have fought to keep condors in the
wild because they believe that field
study is the best way to learn about
them and because, says Ruth Norris,
an Audubon Society spokeswoman in
Washington, of the fear that if the
condors are removed from their habi-
tat, the habitat itself will disappear.

“It was really awful when that [con-
dor] came in,” says Lindburg. “At
times like that you wonder if you’re
watching a species go extinct before
your eyes.”

Other animals, such as the Arabian
oryx, have been luckier. The horned
oryx, an antelope that in profile looks
something like the mythical unicorn,
had once seemed doomed in the wild
and was dangerously inbred in captiv-
ity. Geneticists at the center helped
reverse the inevitable by learning to
pair the animals according to their
chromosomes.

Today, a picture of an oryx hangs
over a desk in the office of Oliver
Ryder, the resident geneticist.

“That picture was taken in the Mid-
dle East, but look at that scratch on
the horn,” Ryder says, leaning for-
ward and tapping the picture with his
pen. “That’s our mark, that scratch. It
Continued on Page 30

 

 

 

   




 

 

The 20th-Century Ark

 

Continued from Page 22

tells us that that oryx was born in
Escondido [at the Wild Animal Park].
That’s the easiest way I know of to
explain what I do.”

For John Phillips, an environmen-
tal physiologist, the explanations
come during a tour of a small shed a
few yards from the center. Used for
studies of fertility in reptiles, it con-
tains several sets of lizards implanted
with hormone pumps. Staff members
refer to them by such pet names as Mr.
and Mrs. Big Guy, Stumpy and Weird
Al Yankovic.

“We had a couple named Mr. and
Mrs. Mellow, but Mr. Mellow died a
while back,” Phillips says. “That was
pretty depressing.”

he research center uses several

official arguments to justify its
work. In general, these revolve
around the unknown global side ef-
fects of mass extinctions; the possibil-
ity that animal research might benefit
human medicine and biology; the
moral imperatives, and attempts to
keep from cheating future genera-
tions—of animals and humans.

But to Phillips it somehow seems
more elemental.

“When the cameras roll in here
someone always asks us, ‘Is it worth
it?’ which is frustrating. People who
ask us those questions will never un—
derstand the answers. They’re almost
not worth talking to. What we do is
really very basic.”

The cheetah is a case in point. The

giarirarm'wmi

.4
(I
II
V
i

.3

un-

. an
«rev
.. r.

animal, whose name is Hindi for “the
spotted one,” is finding it hard to
thrive in its remaining African habi-
tats, having long ago vanished from
breeding grounds in Asia and Europe.
Today, though 10,000 to 25,000
Cheetahs are said to remain in the
wild, much of that wild is disappear-
ing because of human encroachment.
In Namibia, cattle ranches are in-
creasingly swallowing up the animal’s
habitat, and Cheetahs are frequently
shot because they are a danger to
livestock. By some accounts, African
Cheetahs outside of zoos may vanish
within a few decades. In captivity, the
big cats have fared poorly, breeding
sporadically and behaving sluggishly.
Because their extinction seems im-
minent, the arrival of seven Cheetahs,
acquired from a game preserve in
South Africa, caused a stir at the cen-
ter. Worley, the virologist, was anx-
ious to obtain a blood sample to aid a
study of feline infectious diseases.
Durrant, the reproductive physiolo-
gist, needed a sperm sample for the
frozen zoo. And Phillips, an environ-
mental physiologist, needed mea-
surements of limbs for comparison
with the limbs of captive stock.
Lindburg needed a rest, among oth-
er things. He’d been watching over
the Cheetahs for several weeks now,
and when the quarantine was over
he’d oversee their placement in the
Wild Animal Park.
“Then we’ll see them run,” he said.
“Cheetahs are amazing when they
run.”

 

 

 

 

This lion-tailed macaque is one of 15 such creatures the San Diego center purchased

 

from the preserve of Prince Rainier of Monaco for study of their breeding habits.

 




COLUMBUS (OHIO) MONTHLY Magazine - May 1986

THE  
BIG BUSINESS
OF ANIMAL
RESEARCH

Are helpless animals suffering needlessly? Or are
all possible safeguards in place? It depends on
who’s doing the talking. Animal research brings big
bucks into Columbus—and big controversy.

BY EMILY FOSTER

 

Emotions on the issue of animal research have run high ever since sci-
entists ﬁrst Vivisected animals to see how they are put together. Oppo-
nents usually aren’t called “antivivisectionists” nowadays—the ’re re-
ferred to as ‘animal rights” or “animal welfare” activists, or as ‘animal
protectionists,” or in a variety of other ways — but the feelings haven’t
changed. Listen to Dick Morgan, a Columbusite who is the interna-

tiona coordinator of the Mobilization for Animals grou : “There’s no
question that animals are undergoing the most horrib e and painful
tortures imaginable in this city.”

The debate over animal research drew attention last fall in rather
ironic fashion, in an incident that had the animal welfare people squar-
ing off not directly against researchers or a research institution, but
against the Capital Area Humane Society.

In Au st, 1985, when the society elected Dr. Harry Rozmiarek, di-
rector o the Ohio State University Laboratory Animal Facilities, to
its board of directors, Morgan and other local animal welfare activists
raised a storm of controversy. Board members and the executive di-
rector of CAHS resigned, and Rozmiarek found himself the center of
heated ar ments. The animal advocates called his ap ointment a
conﬂict of 1nterest because he comes from an institution t at kills ani-
mals regularly in the cause of science. They suggested that his ap oint-
ment was a tacit approval of animal research. Rozmiarek, they 0 j ect-
ed, represents an inhumane industry and has no place in a humane
society. In March, Rozmiarek withdrew as a candidate for reelection
to the board. -

It’s the matter of whether animal research is “inhumane” that cre—
ates the basic disagreement. There’s no question that the allegations
against researchers can make some very unpleasant reading. In one
well-publicized incident a couple of years ago, for instance, a head inju-

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

“Most lab animals are purpose bred’ especially for use in labs by commercial
breeders, but some are strays and former pets that come from the county
animal shelter at $3 apiece. ”

 

ry study on primates at the Universi-
ty of Pennsylvania was halted after

'cal animal rotectionists broke
into the lab an stole videotapes of
the onies of the brain-injured re-
searc monkeys.

Nothing this awful has surfaced in
COlhmlus, tbut criticism hag mgereased
in t e ast ew years, arty cause
Mobilization for Animalls, an assertive
group with a mailin list of about
80,000, set up its h quarters here.
In late 1984 an animal welfare activ-
ist was arrested at OSU’s Laboratory
Animal Center on Godown Road
while protesting the decapitation of
cats as part of tests on a new ortho-
dontic procedure. Others have ob-
jected to chemical warfare tests on
animals at Battelle Memorial Insti-
tute, the sacriﬁce of do in physiol-
ogy demonstrations at SU and the
fnvolousness of an OSU study on
the effect of catnip on cats.

Unquestionabl , animal research
and testin are ig business in Co-
lumbus. O '0 State and Battelle be-
tween them use more than 200,000
animals a year in research, accord-
ing to their own reports to the U.S.
Department of Agriculture. Most lab
ammals are “ urpose bred” es cial-
1y for use in by commercial reed-

ers, but some are stra s and former
pets that come from t e county ani-
mal shelter at $3 a iece. Most of
these 200,000 anim 8 (well over 90

 

Dr. Rozmiarek, director of the Ohio State University Labbratory Animal

rcent) are rodents, and most will
ose their lives in the process of ex-
perimentation.

While it’s impossible to ut a pre-
cise dollar ﬁgure on animalIi'esearch,
Dr. John Cornhill, chairman of OSU’s
Animal Care and Use Committee,
estimates that about 25 percent of
OSU’s $90 million yearlyl research
grant income goes to e depart-
ments where animal research takes
place. This means that animal re-
search could be worth as much as
$15 to $20 million annually to OSU.
Battelle is less openhanded with in-
formation, but it carries on man re-
search grojects under nts grom
the U. . Army and t e National
Cancer Institute, for instance, as
well as under contracts from private
corporations. In 1983 Battelle alone
reported using 201,115 animals in its
various projects. Children’s Hospital
uses about 1,000 animals a year 1n its
small, but e anding, research ro-
gram. Adriaxllaboratories in Du lin,
which develops anticancer drugs
such as Adriamycin, uses animals for
toxicity tests but refused to have a
representative interviewed for this
article. It is clear that many thou-
sands of animals’ lives mean millions
of dollars to the Columbus economy.

Animals may be used in Columbus
labs and classrooms for experimen-
tation, teaching, research or testing.
Some studies or tests last an hour or

 

Facilities. Rozmiarek’s appointment to the board of directors of the Capital Area
Humane Society caused heated debate. In March, he withdrew as a candidate for
reelection to the board.

Kevin Fitzsimons/courtesy OSU Communications Services

a day, some may continue for years.
A few animals may'be used in more
than one experiment or test.

0 Once a year at the Ohio Health
Department lab 300 mice are killed
(euthanized with anesthetics) and
their brain material used to make a
conju te to diagnose rabies.

0 ysiology 311 at OSU uses live,
anesthetized dogs from the animal
shelter to demonstrate physiological
responses for medical and nursin
students. The dogs leg is dissecte
to e se the leg muscles, then its
musﬁleo reﬂexes are demonstrated
using electrical stimulation. For ad-
vanced students, the demonstrator
may then open the dog’s chest cav1ty
to expose the heart and lungs and
may even pinch off an artery to m-
duce a heart attack. The dog is eu-
thanized after the demonstration.

0 In one study at OSU funded by
the National Institutes of Health,
two orthodontists in the College of
Dentistry studied the rate of tooth
movement during orthodontia by ap-
plying braces to cats’ teeth and then
injectm the cats with a calc1um-pro-
ducing hormone. The 28 cats later
were decapitated so that bone and
tissue samples could be studied.

0 Children’s Hospital often tries
out new surgical procedures, such as
intestinal transplants, on lab animals.

The lives of the animals used for
such purposes may buy medical break-
throughs, a better understanding of
mental and 5h sical processes, safe
products an gs 1n the market-
place and well-educated doctors and
nurses - or they may be wasted lives
of torture and distress at the hands
of callous, eedy or even sadistic re-
searchers. t depends on who’s talk-
ing when the subject of animal re—
search comes up.

While some animal advocates con-
tend that ne research on animals is
justiﬁable, they usually concentrate
on what they see as ﬂagrant abuses.
Animals may be ke t under unwhole—
some conditions. xiperiments may
be needless or dup lcative. Proce-
dures ma be prolonged, stressful or
painful (physically or mentally). Pain
may even be the object of the study.

It’s not alwa s easy to ﬁgure out
exactly what e problem 1s. Take
the cat decapitation case. The ori '-
nal protocol (procedural outline) gr
the study showed that an anesthetic

 

  




called ketamine would be used before
the cats were deca itated. However,
the dosage entere was too low. Dr.
Rozmiarek, who reviewed the proto-
col, sa s that he noticed the mistake
imme 'ater and changed it and that
no cats were decapitated with insuf-
ﬁcient anesthesia. Protesters, who
had gotten a co y of the protocol
from a dental stu ent, say Rozmiarek
chan ed it only because they brought
it to 's attention with their actions.

Rob Russell, of a local environ-
mental oup called Protect Our
Earth’s glh‘easures, cites what. he
considers another case of institutlon-
al foul-up. “I know of one rimate [at
OSU] that sat out in a hal for a week
orweek andahalfinatoo—small cage
and developed sores,” he says. Roz-
miarek finally had the baboon re-
moved, but as it had developed no so-

cial skills, it was ﬁnally euthamzed,
’ sa 8 Russell.

ozmiarek’s version is this: The
baboon was given to the university
and had a histo of “self-traumatlz-
ing.” It arrive with self-inﬂicted
‘ sores. It went into a standard 60-day
quarantine at the Lab Animal. Cen-
ter where it stopped biting itself,
and its sores hea ed. “Apparently it
liked it out here,” Rozmiarek sa s. It
was sent to the College of Me icine
for an anti-fertility immunization
study. After a week there it started
biting itself again, but since it was
mid-study, the researchers put the
baboon m a squeeze ca e with a
movable wall that pushe it to the
front of the cage where its sores
could be treated. After the study it
was returned to the Lab Animal
Center, where once again it stopped
bitin itself. It was later sent to a
bree ' facility in Texas.

Dick ﬁorgan of Mobilization for
Animals accused Battelle of “radiat-
ing dogs and allowin them to die
slowly and extreme y painfully.”
When Peter J epsen, chief veterinari-
an and manager of the Animal Re-
sources Section at Battelle, replied,
“That’s 100 rcent wrong,” Morgan
su gested t at the toxicity tests Bat-
telle does run on dogs are just as hor-
rible as radiation poisoning.

Animal welfare activists insist they
have a complaint even if their facts
should be confused, and very often
they have to rely on rumor or 1nSIde
information for what they do know.
“Why did the baboon mutilate his
body?” asks Phyllis Fischer, the ac-
tivist who was arrested at the cat de-

capitation protest and is a co-founder
of Mobilization for Animals. “Be
cause he was so stressed out,” she
answers. The dental research that
resulted in cat decapitation she calls
“(gross and disgusting,” arguing that

'ds need inexpenswe dental care”

rather than ever more sophisticated
orthodontics. Her objections are fun-
damental, and the details may be in-
cidental.

Even the researchers mostly agree
that animal care in labs needed
change for the better, and they don’t
mind crediting the animal rights
movement with some of the improve-
ments in animal welfare laws and
changes in attitudes. “I was a gradu-
ate student 20 ears ago, and I saw
horrible things, Rozmiarek admits.
“Care for animals’ feelings has
changed dramatical y.”

The care of lab ammals is regulat-
ed by the federal Animal Welfare
Act, administered by the U.S. De-
partment of Agriculture, which
checks on actual conditions in lab fa-
cilities and, for example, s ciﬁes
cage size and care routines. n addi-
tion, the Public Health Services’ Na-
tional Institutes of Health, which
distributes about $4 billion in grants
each year (not all for animal re-
search), has recently revised its
“Guide for the Care and Use of Lab-
oratory Animals” and requires that
grant recipients adhere to certain
princi les.

OS has centralized its lab animal
care and use under the direction of
Rozmiarek since 1983. “We’re be-
coming more and more accountable,”
Dr. Cornhill points out. “The central-
lzed system tends to guard against
things going wrong in the small
units.” thers— except for extrem-
ists like Phyllis Fischer, who insists
that Rozmiarek “washes his hands
{of responsibility] like Pontius Pi-
ate”—. express cautious approval.
Rozmiarek seems to be getting hold
of the sprawlin pro ms that use

research anima s at .

But clean cages only tend to shift
the subject to the nature of the ex-
periments themselves. To address
these concerns, from the humanitar-
ian int of View rather than the

ure y scientiﬁc, the new Public

ealth Service 'delines call for the
establishment 0 animal care and use
committees to review and approve
all .rotocols submitted for PHS
fun ng. OSU and Children’s Hospi-
tal. have gone further. They will re-
qu1re that all research and teaching
protocols be approved. OSU e cts
to have all its proposals hase into
the review system by fuly 1. The
committees are composed of repre-
sentatives of the sc1ences and ad-
ministration and include at least one
“community” representative who has
no ties to the institution.

Can a committee largely composed
of peers really judge the humanity of
a scientiﬁc study. Aren’t research-
ers and their biomedical associates
generally insensitive to the needs of

animals? Many animal welfare activ-
ists think so. ‘The last thing the ani-
mal researchers care about are the
animals,” Mor n says.

Children’s ospital’s committee
has two community members, Elaine
Black, former executive director of
the Capital Area Humane Society
and a co-founder of an animal adop-
tion and welfare group called Citi-
zens for Humane Actlon, and Dan
Farrell, associate rofessor of phi-
loso by at OSU leo has conducted
me cal and animal ethics seminars.
Both said they were pleasantly sur-
prised that in the one meeting they

ad attended so far, as Farrell put it,
“The far-reaching questions have
been raised b doctors, so it’s not
like I’m the o y one thinkin of ani-
mal rights.” Dr. Robert Sher 'ng, at-
tending veterinarian at Children’s
Hos ital, reports that “The ethics of
all this [animal research] is constant-
1y being discussed. In the Animal Re-
search Committee, we spend many
hours e loring our views on this.”
The res t of all the introspection,
says Cornhill, is that “It’s the excep-
tion now that something comes back
approved without a query.” Elaine
B ack remembers one study being
turned down because it wasn’t sufﬁ-
ciently documented; a committee
member had remarked, “This looks
like something from the ’50s.”

Protocols are submitted With a va-
riety of data about the number and
species of animals to be used, the type
of procedures to be performed and
drugs to be 'ven, the amount of ain
inﬂicted an what steps will be en

to alleviate it, what sorts of restraints
might be used on the animals, wheth-
er the animal will be euthamzed and
how, and whether alternatives to ani—
mals have been considered. The com—
mittee may approve, disapprove or
defer. The committee has the last
word on the sub'ect of whether or
not the ropo is submitted for
funding. e committee at Children s
Hospital is “answerable to no one,
says Penny DiVito, su msor of the
Central Animal Faci ities, and can
request that research be sto ped at
an time. Elaine Black adde , hope-
ful y, “I don’t think they’ll just rub-
ber-stamp an g.” . .
Granting t at committees act_ 1n
good faith with adequate information
— something that peo le like chk
Mo would not y grant—they
will ave to address some fundamen-
tal questions about people’s relation-
ship to animals. Researchers regard
themselves as humane people. who
know cruel treatment of animals
when they see it, but their assump-
tions and limits of tolerance may be
so different from those ‘of. ammal

 




rights peo le that rational discourse
is im ssi le. Rozmiarek says, “Be-
fore do my job I have to accept that
animals are necessary in research.”
Cornhill says, “I believe if the animal
is going to be destroyed anyway [1n

the case of strays], and it can be used
in a humane way,” then research is

“a better use for the animal.”

Philosopher Dan Farrell says he
accepts the use of animals in research
but with qualiﬁcations. “Why _do we
care so much about human pain?” he

asks. “Not because it’s human, but
because it’s pain. If we ask why. it’s
so bad to hear humans screamin ,
it’s not because they’re human, It s
because they’re screamin .” An Spe-
cies, that is, that can fee pain as a
right not to be subjected to 1t—the1r
sentience, or capacity to feel, 1s at
the bottom of our humanitarian con-
siderations. .

In the cost-beneﬁt analys1s that
goes into any decision about usmg
animals in research, “I think the bur-
den of justiﬁcation on anyone who
would use a sentient creature is much,
much hi her than the ordinary per-
son thi s,” Farrell says. Research-
ers “should come with their hats in
their hands.”

It’s not easy to wei h the cost of
animal life against the neﬁts to all
life, and Farrell offers no easy ethi-
cal solutions. Some cases, thou h, he
thinks are clearly beyond the e. “If
you want to scorch pigs wit blow-
torches to simulate burns in burn pa-
tients,” he hypothesizes, “and you
can’t reproduce the trauma of burns
patients without withholding anes-
thetic from the pigs], I say too bad
for the urns patients. You can’t do 1t.”

Oddly enough, animal rights advo
cates save some of their most inﬂam-
matory rhetoric for research . that
usually does not kill or physmally

maim at all -behavior studies. In the
rocess they illustrate the huge gap
tween how the researchers see
their work and how the animal rights
peo le view it.

“ t’s cruel, inhumane, sadistic,” in-
sists Fischer. And Dick Morgan says,
“There’s not a single case I know of
where a psychological experiment has
resulted in help to humans.” He adds:
“Psychologists are not scientists.”

Animal rights literature frequent-
ly refers to the work of Harry Har-
low in the 1950s. He studied the ef-
fects of depriving infant monkeys of
mother love. To the animal protec-
tionists, the studies were monstrous.
But Sarah Bo sen, a researcher at
OSU, argues t at toda infants in in-
tensive care units are aid on shee
skins in an application of Harlo s
discoveries, and fewer now die of
“hospitalism.” “His work has revolu-
tiomzed neonatal care,” she argues,
“and has also spilled over into animal
care in zoos.”

Boysen is studying; learning in a
chimp named She a pasting elec-
trodes on her while S eba discrimi-
nates numbers or shapes. When some-
one like Dick Morgan says, “There’s
no experiment that would not inﬂict
stress on a chimp,” Boysen stron ly
objects. “It’s ludicrous,’ she calls iis

accusation. “I took one chimp from

R013 Russell, of a local group called Protect Our Earth’s Treasures, took this dphoto at
Ohio State. The dog was used in Physiology 311, which uses live, anesthetize

s cies isolation and raised her.
en she reaches adulthood, she'll
be able to have an infant and raise it.”
“I like chimps more than [I like] most
le I’ve met,” she goes on. “Id like
to othelittlelcantomakelifebetter
for chimps. They need people like me.
They also need people ike [Morgan].”
David Tuber ma think that stray
dogs need people ' e him. Gerri Bain
at the Capital Area Humane Society
agrees they do. Applying classical
behavior modiﬁcation techniques on
a group of 14 feral puppies found in
Southern Ohio, Tuber was able to so
cialize them and make them tracta—
ble, lovable pets, Tuber says. He’s
using his methods on dogs awaiting
adoption at the Humane Society so
that they will make good pets and
not end up on the street again.
This work may sound benign, but
to Fischer, Tuber is “an evil, wicked
human being,” and his work is “the
most blatant piece of garba e I’ve
heard all year.” Behind the a usive
- is a reason: “There are more
dogs to be placed than there are
good homes,” she argues. “Why is this
man wasting his time and money?”
“We’re trying to provide an alter-
native to euthanasia,” Tuber replies.
“We teach workers in humane socie-
ties how to work with dogs in con-
ﬁnement to make the situation less

we

demonstrate physiological responses for medical and nursing students.

 

dogs to




hostile.” As for institutional research,
he comments, “The level of stress
when owners abandon their pets ex-
ceeds an hing I’ve ever seen in re-
search.” e defends behavioral stud-
ies like his as beneﬁcial to animals:
“If you’re worried about how animals
react to stress, that’s the only way to
stud it-usin animals.”

If avid Tu r is evil and wicked,
it is hard to ima ' e a point of agree-
ment between t e more extreme an-
imal advocates and the animal re-
searchers who tread far closer to
that ill-deﬁned line that separates
cost and beneﬁt. Even discussion is
difﬁcult. To wit: .

“There’s no point in talking to
them,” Morgan says of behav10ra1
psychologists.

rWe haven’t found a way to com-
municate on this subject with the
public, and so we’ve decided we just
won’t,” said Bethany Beck, general
counsel for Adria Labs, as she re—
fused an interview.

The acute hostility on the one
hand and the defens1veness on the
other will continue to keep many
doors closed that should be open to
rational public inquiry.

However, the activists’ noise has
been heard. Researchers ant that
they look harder now for ternatives
to using animals. “We’ve one to the
slau hterhouse and taken ungs from
catt e and taken cells from those
lungs and used those cells [in studies],”
says Gerald Fisher of Battelle. Corn-
hil reports that an ad hoc committee
has been set up to review the use of
dogs in classroom demonstrations in
the OSU Ph siology Department and
consider vi eotape as an alternative.
“I don’t think we can do something
because . . . ‘it’s always been done
that way,’ ” he admits.

“The new animal guide[lines] and
new legislation have been positive,”
Sherding believes. “Even the radicals
show us that today, in 1986, some
abuses still go on.”

The American public schizophreni-
cally demands new and better rod-
ucts, new cures for disease and) new
lifesaving or life-bettering medical
technicilues, all arriving on the mar-
ket ful y certiﬁed as risk-free; at the
same time we want these things with-
out the inevitable attendant costs.
We want drug com anies to produce
dru that won’t urt us, without
flunism' ' g too much about how the drug

companies will do that. We want to
know how to ﬂy without pulling
wings off species that do.

Maybe modern technology will hel
solve this dilemma. Maybe 1t won’t.

 

Emily Foster is a staﬁwm'terfor Co-
lumbus Monthly.

 

 




l
. V
x s

DALLAS TIMES HERALD
May 4, 1986

b
’

- Assoceiatd Press
The Concho water snake: Existence threatened by West Texas dam project

A snake-bit reservoir

Proposal to protect reptile endangers West Texas water supply

By FRANK TREJO

El Paso Bureau

PAINT ROCK — Here in deep West

Texas, a battle as old as man’s ﬁght to rule
over his environment is creating a contro-
versy of biblical proportions.

First, there’s a bunch of good folks liv-
ing smack in the middle of what is known
locally as “God’s Country”; then there’s a
snake considered by some to~be downright
evil; and there’s even a place called Eden
just down the road.

If you think that’s stretching things a bit
too far, Concho County Judge Charles J.
Dankworth is quick to remind visitors that
back in that original good-versus—evil sto-
ry, just as it has this time, “It was a damn
snake that started everything.” ‘

In this case, the snake is a two- to three-
foot long brown-skin reptile known as the
Concho water snake. What it has started is
a major controversy that threatens to stop
construction of a $68 million darn project
designed to provide sorely needed water to
a large portion of parched West Texas.

At stake is the proposed Stacy Dam res-
ervoir, a locally ﬁnanced water project that
many people around here believe is vital
to the future of cities such as Odessa, San
Angelo and Abilene.

But the US. Fish and Wildlife Service is
proposing to list the snake as a threatened
species needing legal protection because
the snake is found only along a 199-mile
stretch of the Concho and Colorado rivers.
The dam and its reservoir would ﬂood or
otherwise disrupt about 74 percent of the
habitat the snake needs to survive.

To add drama to the tale, if the reptile is
listed as a threatened species, it could be-
come known as the snake that saved the
tiny Coleman County community of Lea—
day, which is scheduled to be ﬂooded by
thr Stacy Dam reservoir.

The battle over the snake and the dam is
the ﬁrst major challenge to the Endan-
gered Species Act since the classic 19705
war between an inch-long ﬁsh called the
snail darter and the $130 million Tellico
Dam in Tennessee. _

US. Sen. Lloyd Bentsen, D-Texas, has
joined the fray by introducing legislation
to exempt 'Stacy Dam from the law’s pro—
Visions. Bentsen said concern for the
snake is a “serious case of misplaced
priorities.”

Most residents of West Texas certainly
agree.

Just last month, more than 300 people
crowded into the Runnels County Court—
house to voice their opinions to officials
from the Fish and Wildlife’s regional en-
dangered species program. About 40 peo-
ple spoke out against listing the snake as a
threatened species, with only three de-
fending the reptile.

“It just boils down to facts,” Dankworth
said. “Water has become a priority in West
Texas. There is no way in the world that

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

any governmental agency or bureaucracy
can keep us from building that dam.”

As Dankworth and many other area resi—
dents see it, it’s not natural for man to be
ruled by reptile.

Frank Trejo/Dallas Times Herald

One of the few proponents of the pro-
posed listing is John Peslak of Abilene
who is a member of the Big Country Au-
dubon Society. Peslak and other conserva-
tionists believe the issue is much greater

 

 

 

 

 

 

Bob Murray/Dallas Times Herak

Damming the Colorado, above, and
Concho rivers would ﬂood much oi
the habitat of the Concho water
snake and the town of Leaday. The
dam also would cost postmaster
James Stephenson, left, his job.

than merely whether one small species of
snake will survive.
“There is an ecological assault going on

See SNAKE on Page 48A

 




i‘rocky areas,

Snake may kill dam, save town

i ’ SNAKE — From Page 47A

_ ~ in the world today,” Pes-
: Ilak said. “The result is that if we

- ' look at only one species, it’s proba~

I bly very easy to say, ‘well we really
' den’t need that one.’

“But eventually we are going to
: freach a point where the next spe—

; - cies will make a difference and by
- . then it will be too late,” he said.

i ‘ : Peslak said he believes it is pos-

j Sible for the snake and the dam to

:QcO-exist, but it probably means
jmaking changes that could delay

I ' and increase the cost of the project.

j 1 : :Jim Johnson, who heads the en—
‘ Qdangered species program at the
Fish and Wildlife Service’s regional
:ofﬁce in Albuquerque, says the
iCbncho water snake is found no-
j where else in the world.
~ j He noted that the snake already
.is listed under the state of Texas’
,endangered species act, but state
~law merely protects the reptile
I from being killed illegally.
' - fThe Concho water snake, known
scientifically as Nerodia harteri
‘paucimaculata, was discovered in
A944 and is actually a sub-species
; of a snake known as Harter’s water
- Snake. The species is named for a
I Palo Pinto County naturalist, Phil-
;lip’ f‘Snakey” Harter, who discov-
-'ered the creature in 1936 in the
7 Brazos River.
. 'fAccording to conservationists,
I '. there’s very little question that bio-
; - logically speaking, the Concho wa-
- _ ter snake, which can only survive
::ll’) shallow water that flows over
is a threatened
: I species.
-, :Construction of the dam is not
3‘ automatically blocked while the
:lﬂsh and wildlife service decides

' I Whether to formally protect the

' snake. But the US Army Corps of

' - Engineers has agreed to withhold

jlthe necessary permit until a deci-

-:sion is made sometime between
I'how and next January. Bentsen’s

:‘législation would require the corps
to issue the permit by Nov. 30.
The idea of a dam and reservoir
~hear the place where the Colorado
. Elja'nd Concho rivers meet is some-

thing that has been discussed
around here for the better part of
30 years.

In 1979, the Colorado River Mu-
nicipal Water District ﬁnally re-
ceived approval to build the dam
across the Colorado River, but offl—
cials of the Lower Colorado River
Authority objected, claiming the
dam would take water that rightfu—
ly belonged to the authority. A
lengthy legal battle followed, with
the two sides reaching a settlement
in 1984.

Some people, including Dank-
worth, have wondered aloud
whether some of the original oppo-
nents to the dam might be in-
volved in raising the issue of the
water snake.

But the area’s need for water is
something few question.

“The Stacy reservoir is the last
available surface water in West
Texas,” said Rod Lewis, assistant
general manager for the Colorado
River Municipal Water District.
“All other water is ground water
and we know for a fact that the
water table is being rapidly
depleted.

“We feel that if the situation
were to continue as it is, there
would be an inadequate water sup-
ply by the year 2000,” Lewis said.

The planned reservoir, Lewis
said, could eventually contain
554,000 acre-feet of water spread
over 19,200 acres in Runnels, Coh-
cho and Coleman counties. The
site is about 60 miles east of San
Angelo.

It could provide water for
500,000 West Texans.

For people in and around the
Coleman County community of
Leaday, that fact seems important
enough for them to give up their
town.

If the dam is built, Leaday even-
tually will be submerged under
dozens of feet of water. It could
take years, but residents here have
resigned themselves to the
inevitable.

Present-day Leaday is really not
much more than a post office and a
handful of vacant old buildings.

Only one person, 82-year-old Mary
Alice Stephenson, actually lives in
what could loosely be called
downtown.

Her son, James Stephenson, is
postmaster at the US. Postal Ser-
vice office, which is open week-
days only from 8:15 to 10:15 am.

Stephenson, 60, has lived around
the Leaday area most of his life.
He has been postmaster for 26
years. Only 12 families still come
by the post ofﬁce to pick up mail,
he said.

Most people around here, he
said, are just like himself. They
have lived here most of their lives
but don’t own the land they ranch.

“I guess people are kind of sad
about having to move out, but
there’s nothing we can do about
it, ” Stephenson said.

“We just figure to stay around
here until they say it’s time to get
out,’ ’he said.

Ernest Lillard, assistant to the
water district’s general manager,
said only ﬁve houses in Leaday
that currently are occupied will ac—
tually be flooded by the proposed
reservoir. All of those families, he
said, are supportive of the dam.

One of those who will lose land
to the lake and who has mixed
feelings about the project is Jane
Padgitt, whose family has been in
the area since the late 18705.

She said she is not surprised
there has not been any signiﬁcant
opposition to the dam by landown-
ers and residents.

“We realize that Texas politics
are ‘stronger than any group of
landowners,” Padgitt said.

Although she grew up around
the area, Padgitt lived in San An-
tonio until five years ago when she
and her husband decided to move
back to Leaday to enjoy the soli—
tude and privacy of the
countryside.

It’s an incredible feeling, she
said, to look out night after night
and see nothing but one single
man-made light, a light bulb burn-
ing in the town of Leaday.

 

 

 




Six winners top w
a littered field
in our contest

By NEAL RUBIN

Free Press Staff Writer

 

LARGE BLACK LABRADOR from Livonia
wrapped his bath mat of a tongue around a
political candidate’s hat a few months ago and
threw it in the ring. ' ‘

This would be no big deal in Chicago, where family
pets have voted foryears. But it was a nice feather in the
collar for Smokey, probably the most talented and
definitely the most influential of the six winners in the
Detroit Free Press’ Stupendous Pet Tricks contest.

Mike Duggan, Smokey’s owner, manages the cam—i
paign of would-be Wayne County executive Ed McNa-
mara. Tired of waiting for McNamara’s declaration, said
Duggan, “I told him, ‘Look. I have to make a commit-
ment to one of two things — the dog’s career, or yours.

9861 ‘8 Mew - SSHHd HERE LIOHJHCI

So make up your mind.’ ”

Now McNamara is a leading contender for the
Democratic nomination, and Smokey, despite Duggan’s
many distractions, has a leg up on a TV guest shot.

ACCOUNTS OF OUR multifaceted mammals’ ex-
ploits will be forwarded to “Late Night with David
Letterman,” where Susan Hall, who handles the show’s
Stupid Pet Tricks segment, has agreed to give them long,
loving looks. In Smokey, she’ll see a cheerful three-
year-old who fetches beer from the refrigerator, an-
swers the phone, picks up scraps of paper and throws
them in the trash, and turns out the lights.

The 84‘also-rans whose owners will have to petition
Hall on their own include:

0 Larry the turtle, who has been “healthy and active”
except for once when he had an infection “and when he
was frozen last Easter.”

0 Two dogs who sing opera, one who sings “Happy
Birthday to You,” and a cat who says “no-o-o-o-o."

0 Two cats who use the toilet and one dog who uses "an
outhouse.

0 Copper, a basset hound who has “redecorated our
house, is r'elandscaping our yard, and has generously
taken it upon herself to relandscape our neighbors’
yards, too.” '

11p “aswgq Bumeqs 'aiotaq Siotetoads won Acme 31011 sq 'pJBM181}V 'pieoq
Bug/\gp am 10 apgslood wOJj. ,qaswgq Bugqounel Jaye good pJeAxoeq at]; 330109 yns
o; aqm JGUU! mm; a sasn 'plegqmos to pJBU!GJS tauer pue Auar Aq paumo 'agmg

iiiS§IDIiLL .LEId
SDOGNEIJHLS

3|H38V WVl'l'llM Mi 0i°lld $$3Jd 38.85

 

 

 

 




 

0 Hobie Kat, who unrolls the toilet paper in the
bathroom when he wants his litter box cleaned.

HOBIE KAT was one of several animals to write on
his own behalf, a strategy Hall tired of about the time
Lassie went off the air. She gets 10 to 20 letters, five to
15 videotapes and countless :..-.e calls every week,
surprisingly few of which offer original ideas. One of
the best, Hall said, involved a rat-sized cockroach from a
Harvard laboratory;

“Their roach walked a tightrope over ‘the fires of
hell and the pit of doom,’ which was one of those Pyrex
dishes with a candle and some putty and razor blades in
it. The roach wasn’t really in any danger, but everyone
who lives in New York City was hoping.”

Legitimately frightening, Hall said, was the man
who claimed his parrot could stand on its head. Alone
with its beefy owner, Hall discovered that the bird could
perform as advertised. Of course, being plastic, it had an
advantage over its avian brothers.

“I interrupted him and said, ‘Are there any live birds
in there?’ This 280-pound man looked at me and said,
‘But Tweetie Pie is alive.”’

The rub is that a real bird would stand on its head to
learn to stand on its head. Most pets, said Dr. Debra
Horwitz of Veterinary Behavior Consultants in Hun-
tington Woods, “truly like to interact with their owners
and please them, especially when (training) is done with

 

 

.- praise or a reward and not with punish- '
,I ment.

3 “You see circus dogs or the animals

:at Sea World and you can tell they

.enjoy what they’re doing. Animals,

Zespecially dogs, are very social. They

:enjoy the attention.”

; Smokey, a perfect example, asks

.only applause for shagging 15 or 20

Zbeers from the refrigerator during a

:party. He wraps his soggy jowls-
; around a yellow rope tied to the handle,

- yanks open the refrigerator door and

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Befo h d Free Press Photos by PAULINE LUBENS

re an mg owner Mike Duggan of Livonia a fre
sh

beber (top photo), Smokey opens the refrigerator

3 ove), usmg a yellow rope tied to the handle. Smokey

also answers the phone picks u '
. , p scraps of a er and
throws them In the trash, and turns out thepligphts.

 




I
2 starts groping for cans with his mouth
:as the top of his massive black head
.. r batters the shelf above. With the cans
I safely deposited, one at a time, on the
2 living room table, he returns to the
:refrigerator and jerks it shut.
> “We’d go to the Detroit 200 when I
I was a kid and I’d wish I could train the
tseals,” said Duggan, a lawyer for
; Wayne County. Now he has the perfect
~ companion: “I come in and say, ‘Do you
Iwant to learn a trick?’ and he goes
fnuts."

Ernie

Ernie is part German shepherd, part
Labrador and part surf bum.

When the snow starts to melt in
March, the jet black four-year-old
splashes around on the cover of Jerry
and Janet Steinard’s backyard pool in
Southfield. Come warm weather, ev-
ery day is a beach movie. ,

The dog hangs 20 on a truck inner
tube, launching himself from poolside

Herklmer

Mary Horton’s raccoon looks like a
ring-tailed medicine ball.

Normal weight for the species is 12
to 25 pounds. At nearly 50 pounds,
Herklmer could be Lyle Alzado’s win-
ter coat all by himself.

Bloated on a diet of McDonald’s
fries, KentuCky Fried Chicken drum-
sticks and Cheetos — he’s accepts no
substitutes -- the litter-box-trained

- DUGGAN PICKED Smokey, or vice
'. versa, from a litter when the pup
ambled over and chewed the tassels off
Duggan’s Hush Puppies loafers. The
dog’s first lesson was that he was not
"allowed to eat Casper and Shamrock,
. the white cockatiel and green conure
who occupy a large mesh cage in
Duggan’s living room.

After that, Smokey learned to take
Duggan the receiver when the phone
rang, whack at the switch until the
kitchen light went out, tidy the living
room and even play straight man in a

or the diving board. He lands forefeet
first on the far end of the tube, scram-
bles for footing as his back paws land,
and makes minor adjustments for bal-
ance throughout the ride as though he
were log-rolling sideways. After a
splashy dismount, he carefully trots
away from spectators before shaking
himself dry.

Ernie taught himself to surf using

the poolside method of entry. Janet
Steinard encouraged him to use the

diving board. One hint was all he

needed; from then on, Ernie took to
diving like Frankie took to Annette. ‘

Herkimer might outgrow his carpeted,
three-story “coondominium” in the
Hortons’ Harbor Springs living room.
Presumably, that’s why he’s taken
to playing with the telephone, which
the Hortons now must unplug when
they leave the house. They thought his
slapping at the keyboard was aimless
until Herkimer, 3, was caught two
months ago with the line open and a
voice at theother end saying, “Hem-
ingway Point. Can I help you?”
Hemingway Point is a condo devel-
opment in Charlevoix - and a long-
distance call, from Harbor Springs.

card trick, tapping a doctored deck
with a paw to make a card “disappear”
and then retrieving it from a closet.

His latest stunt, commissioned a
few weeks ago for a Michigan Humane
Society TV commercial, involved
plucking a $1 bill from someone’s
pocket and placing it in a bucket. The
filming kept Duggan away from the
opening of his candidate’s downriver
a. a :‘z- n arters.

‘vicNamara wasn’t too happy

 

 

 

 

 

Photo by SCOTT HARMSEN

Herkimer, a raccoon owned by Mary
Horton of Harbor Springs, likes to dial
the phone, a trick his owner thought
was harmless until he started making
long-distance calls. He’s also litter-box-
trained.

Free Press Photo by RICHARD LEE ?

Breezewood. owned by Kim and 1'
Joe Krug of Berkley, was so envi-
ous of 2% -year-old Casey’s trips
to the playground that he taught
himself to use the slide.

G.T. Moon, a gray Arabian stallion

owned by Sheila and Paul Michalec of
New Boston, twirls halters in his mouth.
He'll pick up anything nearby and give it
the same treatment, and sometimes he

a o y 2:; - 5-" ' . . _ ., ~ . “1‘19": > 712:1.
Free Press Photo by RICHARD LEE

 

about that,” Duggan said, “but Ican
only short the dog so much.”

 




“We gave him a three-story house,"
said Horton. “Now he’s mad because it
doesn’t have a deck.” -

G.T. Moon 5

, Perhaps G.T. Moon was just born to
twirl. Or maybe the gray Arabian
stallion is making a social statement
about tack in general.

Whatever the cause, owners Sheila '

and Paul Michalec have learned to not
leave halters hanging around the in-
door arena at Silver Moon Stables in
New Boston.

“We’d come in here and there
would be halters scattered all over,”
said Sheila Michalec. After too many
searches of the barn came up short,
they discovered Moon liked to pitch

 

halters out the back door into a field.

Now Moon, the 10-year-old halter-
geist, makes do with one at a time. He
grabs the end of the neck strap in his
2 teeth and whips it around in a circle
like the tail rotor on a helicopter.

Apparently self-taught, Moon will
change from clockwise to counter-
clockwise in mid-revolution, twirl
while trotting or rearing, and spin
himself arbund in increasingly tight
circles, sometimes getting so dizzy he
stumbles, while the halter whips faster
and faster through the air.

“He’ll show off for all the other
horses,” said Paul Michalec. “They’ll
have their heads out of the stalls look-
ing at him. You can’t leave anything on
the rail. Jacket, whatever — he’ll start
twirling it.’.’

Breezewood

Breezewood is a child at heart —
which is to say he eats a lot, whimpers
when he doesn’t get his way and envies
the closest thing he has to a sibling.

The four-year-old German she-
pherd/husky mix used to cry when
Kim Krug and her 2%-year-old daugh-
ter,Casey, left for the playground near
their Berkley home.

“He wants to be like Casey,” ex-

plained Krug. “He gets jealous when
she can do something he can’t.”

So it followed that one day, having
watched Casey cavort on a playground
slide, Breezewood hauled his 70 pounds
up the steps and down the chute.

He seems to enjoy it now even more
than she does. Leash trailing behind
him, Breezewood bounds to the top of
the slide, stops momentarily to enjoy
the bird’s-eye view, then pushes off,
skidding on his locked front legs while
propelling with the rear.

“Sometimes he’ll sort of sit and his
buns will be touching the slide,” said
'Krug, who named Breezewood after

the Pennsylvania town where she and
her husband spent the first night of
their honeymoon. A properly proud
parent, she’s managed to get him men-
tioned twice in the “Doggone Funny”
feature of the comic strip Marmaduke.

Once was for his sliding expertise.
The other was for one of the few things
that differentiates Breezewood from
the other kids on the block: He insists
on having his teeth brushed every
morning.

Toby
’Like Pavlov’s dogs, Toby’s people

have been trained to respond to the peal
of a bell.

Pavlov’s dogs drooled. Marge Oli-
ver and family sprint, knowing that the
only way to stop the racket is to race to
the door and let their cat into the house.

Toby, a two-year-old gray tiger,
somehow figured out that when he
whomps away at the doorbell button,
large two-legged creatures do his bid-
ding. He slithers along a narrow ledge,
crawls through a five-inch space be-
tween the ledge and the mailbox, posi-
tions his front paws on the knob or
railing of the storm door and uses his
tail end to ring the Olivers’ chimes.

“When he hears you coming, he
jumps down,” said Oliver, of Trenton.
“The first couple of times he did it, I
thought it was neighborhood kids play-
ing a prank.”

Now the Olivers are not only
trained to answer the door, but they’ve
also learned to let Toby in early. “i7"
think it’s cute,” Oliver said, “as
2:30 a.m.” -

To appeal your pet’s ease to a
higher court, write Susan Ha”, ”Late
Niger! wizh David Letterman,” 30
'Rockefeiier Plaza, Room 1410 West,
New York, NY. 10112.

 

 




1"Hottenest9 pet goose
gets owner’s dander up

June Soper lives in a tepee —-
"You can’t miss it. It’s tie-dyed a
bilious green" —— on the outskirts
of Traverse City State Park. She is
"at the age where I will lie, pushing
50 from the wrongend,” and has a
television set, electric blanket, and
all the other comforts of home
except plumbing.

She also has a seven-year-old
White China attack goose named
Honkey “who hates my guts. He’s
the rottenest pet in the world.” At
the very least, Honkey was the
rottenest pet in our Stupendous Pet
Tricks contest, which is detailed on

 

 

Page I B. See for yourself‘

“ About , , _.
seven years ago
I bought Honkey
in a feed store.
After watching
a box filled with
noisy, animated
furballs, I told
the clerk that
those were the
ugliest ducks I
had ever seen.
She told me
those ducks
were geese. I
said I knew that

were they. She
said $3, so I
reached down and picked up the one
that appeared to be made of electric-
yellow fake fur with an orange plastic
beak and big feet to match. Sure, I
know. I bought it because I didn’t want
the clerk to suspect I didn’t know a
duck from a goose . . .” '

Soper carried Honkey around inside
her shirt until he grew t00 large and “I
began to look like I had a mobile
deformity.” He’d sit on her lap as they
watched television. “But TV got boring
sometimes so Honkey would start to
nibble at my hand and I would encour-
age him by pushing his beak away. It
was a fun game and the whole exercise
quickly escalated into full-scale battles
within a few months.”

Soper trained Honkey as a guard
goose by encouraging him to attack her
whenever visitors were present.

“By the time he was 11/2 he didn’t
even need a command. All it took was
one or more visitors to be in close
proximity of me and that would be his
signal to saunter up to me and try to
tear off any part of my anatomy on

“hates my guts.”

 

V;.. f" . -.:~ '

and how much June Soper says er Flat 9

ose Honkey

V

which he could conveniently get a good
grip. That vise-like beak was impor-
tant because that gave him leverage to
beat the hell out of me with his power-
ful, flailing wings.

“Through the years . . . I learned to
defend myself with a leaf rake, umbrel-
la, broom, plastic pail (five-gallon),
large purse (with shoulder strap), snow
boot, tree limb, sled, garbage can lid,
garbage can (ZO-gallon), shovel and a
bag of groceries after I missed trying to
bean him with a golf ball. But for the
most part during the last seven years
I’ve managed to avoid him like the
plague when people visit me.”

Honkey always showed a suspi-
cious interest in men, cozying up to
them and even following them to their
cars. If he reacted to women at all, it
was to nibble at their toes or shoes.

“It was obvious Honkey was suffer-
ing from a severe sexual identity crisis.
I know I was confused until last
spring. Honkey found a spot in a
thicket of bushes and old brush and

refused to come out except for about 15
minutes a day to eat, bathe and preen
his feathers. I thought my poor pet
goose was sick and had gone there to
die in solitude . . . and taking his sweet
time about it, too.”

A veterinarian advised her that as
long as the goose was eating, he was
probably OK. She crawled through the
brush to Honkey’s cubbyhole to feed
him, and .. . _

“There, setting in a pitiful, crude
nest of pine needles, a few strands of
dry grass and miscellaneous dirty
feathers, were three white little light
bulbs. They were from an old makeup
mirror I had discarded over a month

ago. They must
have escaped
from the gar-
bage bag.
“I phoned the
if e 1 l o w w h o
raises geese. .. .
The man told me
I must have a
sterile female
:and those elec-
tric eggs trig-
gered some re-
cessive genetic
urge in Honkey
to be a mother.
And all these
years I thought
. he was just gay.
“This spring, as suggested by the
goose man, I will get Honkey some
wild duck eggs from the zoo. If Honkey
wants to hatch something, it’s OK with
me, but whatever he (or she or it)
hatches had better fly away at maturi-
ty. I don’t want a wholeherd of killer
geese around. I would rather he stayed
on the light bulbs. I was hoping for a
toaster.”
- — Neal Rubin

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

A polar bear Iolls, a lion yawns, a hippo snoozes and a sea lion basks in the sun as teniperatu'res set a record for March 30.

 

 




DETROIT FREE PRESS - March 15, 1986

M4

 

l

Zoo was
EaSter’s
hot spot

By BILL McGRAW
Free Press Staff Writer

Red kangaroos can jump 30
feet and run 28 m.p.h., but on a
lazy, hazy Easter Sunday at the

,Detroit Zoo, they were loung-
- ing in the shade.

So were the hippos, sea lions
and Siberian tigers. The polar
bears, the 200’s stand-up and
fall-down comedians, were be-
having with their usual pa-
nache.

Specimens of Homo sapiens
were dressed in their finest cut-
offs and tank tops; some of the
males took off their shirts. The
humans paraded up and down
the walkways, staring at crit-
ters who stared back in return.

It was a different kind of
Easter at the 200.

Sunday was a cool-drink,
top-down, sweat-streaked kind
of day Detroit generally doesn’t
see until summer. But here it-
was, just 10 daysinto spring, on
a holiday often associated with
red noses and frosty winds.

The temperature climbed 30
degrees higher than normal,
topping off at 81 and breaking
the record of 76 set in 1977.
Saturday’s high of 78 broke a
40-year-old mark, but a cold
front is expected to keep the
highs in the 505 and 608 through
Wednesday.

On Sunday, zoo director
Steve Graham was expecting
10,000 visitors. Some 8,000
showed up Saturday.

Because of the weather and
Easter vacation, the zoo will
change its usual off-season poli-
cy and open today and Tuesday
from 10 am. to 4 pm.

“The animals seem to be just

as happy with this weather as we are,”
Graham said Sunday as he collected
parking money. “I haven’t seen any
frowning faces.” '

Some of the animals are shedding
their winter coats and are sporting that
shabby look so popular during spring in
many of the world’s more fashionable
forests and swamps.‘

And the animals are catching spring

fever.

“There’s a lot of breeding going on
around the 200,” Graham said.

For action, it was all happening at
the aoudad exhibit, where eight of the

._._ - “a”. -—-—--——-—

cutest little baby auodads —— or Barba-
ry sheep —- Were following their moms
around “like you and your brother
follow your mother,” one father said to
his youngdaughter.

“I didn’t know they could climb so
well,” said Jerry LaBerge, 23, who was
holding hands with friend Lisa Fotiu,
23, of Livonia. .

“They’re so, so cute,” Fotiu said.

“This is a nice day to be at the zoo,”
said LaBerge. “The weather is great
and the animals are out.”

At the lion’s den, the king of beasts
sat arrogantly on a high ledge and
looked down his nose at the people
below.

_ “Hi, lion,” one said.

“Say cheese, lion,” begged another.

Despite the balmy weather, winter
had not disappeared from the zoo.

In one corner of the parking lot,
near 10 Mile Road, a dirty clump of
snow lay melting in the sun.

Snow?

Snow.

Which brings up a very depressing
question.

“I can’t say it won’t snow again.
We’ve had traces as far as into May,”
said Birdie Nash of the National Weath-
er Service. 1 ’

She added hopefully: “There isn’t
any in the forecast.”

~-————

 




 

ROW . ICS MEMPHIS COMMERCIAL APPEAL - March 17, 1986

beavers
targeted

Parks chief
looks at bOth
as nuisances

By John Knott
Staff Reporter

 

 

Rowdies and beavers are invading

Shelby Farms, particularly the Plough I

Recreation Area.

Tommy Hill, administrator of the
4,500-acre Shelby Farms, is taking steps
to combat both. He is rather fatalistic
about the beavers. But about the row-
dies, he said:

“Everyone (in Shelby County govern-
ment) is aware that as the park gets
more popular, we’re having more trou-
ble with disruptive people. We’re plan-
ning to have park rangers patrol the
area and crack down on the drinking,
the dope, the bad conduct. There are
no-drinking signs posted all over the
park. _

“We’ve had people driven out of the
park by rowdies. We’re moving on it
now and we expect to be on top of the
situation by mid-April, the first 'of May
at the latest. We’re not going to put up
with it. We’re not going to have an Au-
dubon Park out here.”

. The Memphis Park Commission four
years ago was forced to close some
roads in Audubon Park, particularly
those leading to the lake, because of
trouble with young people who used it
as a hangout. It was sometimes impossi-
ble to drive through the park because
youths blocked roads with their cars.
People, including some police officers,
were attacked.

Some disorderly people have been

ejected from the Plough park. “t’ve hact
reports of instances of men exposing
themselves in front of visitors. One
man was shot with an arrow,” Hill said.

“Several people have volunteered to
let us have horses for the rangers. We
have facilities at the Correction Center
to house and feed them. We think two
mounted rangers will take care of the
whole situation.

“Final approval rests with N. P-

McWhirter, new Shelby County chief
administrative officer.”

If a visit to the Plough Recreation
Area early yesterday afternoon was any
indication, the rangers would be busy
enforcing the ban on alcohol. While
some visitors concealed their beer cans
in holders, others stood around openly
drinking beer. At the bigger fishing

_..

 

creation Area in Shelby Farma.’

lake, youths were grouped around pick—

ups, drinking beer.

About the other problem: Beavers
seeking food and building material
have chewed down dozens of trees on

small islands at the eastern part of,
Plough Recreation Area.

“I’ve found a lot of interesting things
about beavers talking to Allen HouSton,
a government expert who is conduct-
ing a beaver project at Ames Plantation
in Grand Junction, Tenn.

“Current conditions are favorable for

. the spread of the beaver. To begin with,

the Southern beaver, one of many spe-
cies, has a pelt that is all but worthless,
so no one wants to trap it. Further,
abandonment of farms because of the
agriculture crunch has let them
spread.

 

Beaver damage on the shore of an island in a small fishing lake at Plough Re-

“They’ve ravaged some little islands
in the lake and have built a lodge di-
rectly across from the pier.

“Houston told me we’d have to get
someone experienced in trapping and
keep after them more or less continu-
ously.

“We’ve put out traps, but they’ve been
taken. We think it either was a dog own-
er who didn’t want his dog hurt, or it
was someone who thought that would
be a nice trap to take with them.

“I don’t know if we’ll ever get rid of
all of them. Areas around the Wolf Riv-
er are likely targets, but the beavers
have been kept away by motorcycles. I
guess that’s one good thing you can say
about motorcyclists out here. But we’re
getting ready to fence those areas to
keep the cyclists out.”

 

 

 




HOUSTON CHRONICLE
March 23, 1986

New tactic
saves sheep
from coyotes

By NELSON ANTOSH .
Houston Chronicle Agriculture Editor

 

By getting sheep to mingle withcat-
tle through a process called “bonding,”
some researchers in New Mexico may
have found a new way to protect sheep
from coyotes and wild dogs.

If the tactic proves practical for the
- average rancher, it could be useful in
the Edwards Plateau of Texas, where
ranchers run both the largest herds of
sheep and the largest herds of angora
goats in the nation.

On the Jornado Experimental Range,
3 193,000-acre valley a few miles north
of Las Cruces. Dr. Dean M. Anderson, '
Dr. Clarence Hulet, and graduate stu-
dent John N. Smith started bonding
sheep with cattle as part of an ongoing
study on multispecies grazing.

They found that if young lambs are
fed in the same pens with yearling heif-
ers, the sheep will follow and eat to-
gether with the heifers when they are
turned out to pasture. It seems to work
best with 45-day-old lambs. held with ‘
cattle for 30 days. ,

Normally, each Species stands and z
' grazes apart. The bonding overcame
the natural instincts for cattle and
sheep not to mingle.

Getting cattle and sheep to graze to-
gether has three advantages, according
to Hulet and Anderson. First, the cattle
kick to ward off predators. Sheep don’t
have this protection when they are off
by themselves. .

Second, the cost of fencing is re«
duced. Needed only is a fence good
enough to hold cattle because the sheep
will stay with them. Sheep fencing lS
much more expensive, usually made of
netting wire, because they are smaller.

Third, less work is required when

checking livestock in brush. It is very
difficult to locate sheep in brush, but
when bonded the rancher needs only to
find the cows and he has also found the
sheep.
The bonded sheep stick with the cat-
tle, not vice-versa, because the heifers
were too old to be affected when they
were penned together. “Apparently
bonded lambs like heifers as a group,
not just heifer A or heifer B," said An-
derson. They function almost as a
group within a group. _

The trials began in January. and the
researchers have yet to lose a sheep to
predators. They have noticed that when
they approach with one of their dogs,
“the lambs run into the group of cattle
(for nrotectionl.” said Hulet.

 

 

 

V Ordinarily, guard dogs are used to

. protect sheep on the experimental

range. operated by the USDA’s Agricul-
tural Research Service. The big Turk-
ish Akbash dogs have to be bonded with
the sheep to function pr0perly. “They

pirp‘s; otherwise it won’t work.” he said.

Small bonded groups of sheep and
cattle have turned loose in 1,000-acre
pastures and observed for seven days,
24 hours a day. “The sheep show no
disposition to leave. In my opinion, it is

 

permanent,” said Hulet. He sees no rea-

' son why it wouldn’t work with goats, as
, well.

He speculates that ranchers could

add on pasture animals of the appro— ,

priate age. “They would go with the
bonded lambs until they themselves
were bonded,” he said.

Finding sheep in the brushy Jornado
property has always been difficult. The
researchers had to resort to radio col-
lars. similar to those used in tracking
wildlife. “Now you find the cattle, and
you have found the sheep,” he added.

Multispecies grazing is successful be-
cause cattle prefer grass and just a few
forbs (woody, broad-leafed plants),
while sheep prefer forbs with a little
grass. But the land must be prOperly
stocked. “If you put too many cattle
and sheep on the land and let them
graze without supervision. you’ll end up
with pavement,” said Anderson.

Anderson and Hulet are building on
research begun in the 1920s by the
Texas A&M Research Station at So-
nora. Pioneer studies there involved
three species: cattle, sheep and goats.
In 1970 deer were added to the multis-
pecies grazing project at Sonora, be-
cause leasing land to hunters has
become an important source of income

 

for ranchers.

Ins/Mr 5% V3 é
Buggy Beagles

have to be put out with the sheep as ;

 

CLEVELAND PLAIN DEALER - 3/25/86
‘Crybaby’ hunters?

Recently a bill was introduced in
:the Ohio House or Representatives

{that will outlaw the harassment of
i hunters. (BB. 880)

Can anyone really be ex ted to

. believe that the big, bad hunfeeg, with

their big, bad guns really need protec-

tion from harassment? What a pitiful
bunch of crybabies!

.I hope our legislators have a few
Vital issues to work on besides this

one. What a incredible waste of tax
dollars and time.

SUSAN L. GUNDICH
' Cleveland

methodology to the formula

1 for Coca-Cola. Outman’s

‘ snooping school begins with

S-week-old puppies and con-
tinues for three months.

His termite terrninators

are then leased to pest con-

Several years ago, Robert
Outman, an animal behav-
iorist, bought a condomin-
ium declared termite-free by
an exterminator —-— only to
find there was a woodcutters’
ball taking place in the stair—
well of his dream home.

Outman, who had trained
dogs to sniff explosives and
narcotics, decided to put
dogs to work snifﬁng out the
home-wrecking bugs, which
cause an estimated $1.7 bil—
lion in damage to buildings
each year. After two years of
research, Outman found that
male beagles have the best
nose for the job.

Outman’s pest—detecting

hes receive training at
TADD Services Corp. in
Belmont, Calif. , a process so
secret that Outman likens his

 

trol companies throughout
the country after the busi—
nesses have passed a lengthy
screening process and han—
dlers have been trained.

“It’s like the program-
ming of a computer,” says
Outman, who has trained 30
dogs so far. “The trainer
learns how to keep the ani-
mal accurate.”

Outman says most human
termite inspectors can detect
about 20 percent of an infes-
tation using not much more
than a screwdriver and a

‘ ﬂashlight as tools. Outman’s

canine detectives’ work is
guaranteed and insured for
$1 million.

“They are the only dogs I
know that carry malpractice
insurance,” he says.

 




 

CLEVELAND PLAIN DEALER March 27, 1986

Zimbabwe killsmrbhino poachers from Zambia

LONDON OBSERVER

 

ZAMBEZI VALLEY, Southern
Africa -- Zimbabwe has shot a num-
ber of Zambian poachers for killing
the rare black rhinos in this valley and
the issue has led to tense relations
between the two nations.

Since the middle of last year, when
Zimbabwe’s Minister of Natural
Resources and Tourism declared war
on poachers, nine Zambians have been
shot in this rugged terrain, 250 miles
north of Harare. Two died recently in
what a game warden described as “a

' firefight."

The recent killings angered Zam-
bians, who accused the Zimbabwean
gamekeepers-of using “excessive and

unnecessary force’.’ against Zambian

nationals and Of being “trigger
happy?’

Black rhino horns are sold in the
Far East as an aphrodisiac and trade
in them is highly profitable. This val-
ley is the last known high-density nat-
ural habitat of the black rhino, with an
estimated procreative herd-of 700.
Only 20 years ago Africa was home to
an estimated 200,000 of the animals.

'. Tanzania’s Selous National Park,

the second biggest black rhino sanc-
tuary after Zimbabwe, is in a state of
crisis, sources here say. Areas that
were known to contain large herds of

'the rhino are now empty. Zambia’s

herd of 3,000 in the Luangwa Valley
has been reduced to 300 in four years
and it is rapidly declining.
Conservationists say the poachers
work for a tightly controlled interna-
tional syndicate centred around the
Zambian capital of Lusaka. The horns,
about 12 inches long and weighing

about 10 pounds on average, can bring
as much as $4,000 a pound on the
international market.

Zambezi Valley chief game warden
Glenn Tathan said the intensive anti-
poaching measures he has taken came
in the wake of an equally concen-
trated poaching campaign by Zam-
bians. The campaign almost certainly
involves highly placed Zambian offi-
cials, he said.

Armed with high velocity ammuni-
tion and United States or Czech rifles,
the hunters are usually paid about
$160 a day when they are in Zim-
babwe with a $10 bonus for each pair

of rhino horns.

Among the items captured and put
on display by Tathan were relatively
new rucksacks, which are standard
issue to the Zambian army. Police
sources here said one captured
poacher confessed that the boat in
which he crossed the Zambezi river
belonged to the wife of a former Zam-
bian prime minister.

“The Zambian police are inexplic-
ably unco-operative when we ask
them to trace the serial numbers and
ownership of the guns we find on these

pe0ple,” said Claudius Hove, the offi-
cer commanding anti-poaching units
in the Hurungwe safari area. .

Despite assurances from Zambian
Home Affairs Minister Frederick
Chamba that the poaching would be
curtailed, Zimbabweans remain
unconvinced. "

 

 

ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH - 3/21/86

 

L.T. Spence/Post-Dispatch

New Heights

Reaching

 

 

 

Gigi, a 13-year-old reticulated giraffe, towers over her
offspring born March 14 at the St. Louis Zoo. The baby

gira

, is 741/2 '

fie, yet unnamed

pounds.

hes tall and weighs 175

inc
The new arrival, along with its parents, can be

seen at the Antelope House. The reticulated giraffe is

named for its network-patterned coat.

 

 




ATLANTA JOURNAL/ CONSTITUTION - 4/6/86

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

2 z
0. § 3
:E =-
, m m a
a .L
o 7‘
s- a 3
g s °
0 9.. 3
o 0.
~ 0'
? s
. . a. ,-
60 200 patrons painted 5.3.
I I. I I T‘ a 5.
o
pigments of Imaginations s2
. :-
It was a zoo Tuesday night at Zoo Atlanta. About :3 g
60 friends of the animal house were given paint- a m
brushes and plenty of “primate”, colors and turned a a
loose to create a mural for the upcoming Beastly m 3
Feast. The dinner-dance will be held May 3 to raise ‘< 2.
money for the zoo. . . '3? 0'
Peggy Payne, chairwbman'of- the ball, and her «I: ‘2”
sidekick, Nita Stokes. looked the part of not-so- 5' m
starving artists in little red berets. Slasia Kelly of 3 g
WFOX wore a jungle dress and painted a cat. . 5' I:
Llew Haden, president of the zoological society, 1, 9.
painted a bearded figure that looked suspiciously 3.0:
like Terry Maple, zoo director. In case anyone 9.0
missed the connection, the artist added the line: “Dr. 8 8,
Maple. I presume?" 1":
Steve Williams of Ford Motor Co., one of the g S
evening‘s sponsors, came up with a. grisly green bug. n .31;
and restaurateur Dante Slephensen painted a danc- 3 3
ing figure exclaiming: “Happiness is the Atlanta g“:
Zoo.” Tally Sweat created a yellow crab, and her 5;- «a
husband, Dan. added some black dots he called ants. 3 3'
Kurt Wolfe, a “real" artist with Atlanta Theme "' 2
Parties. added a snake named Fred. Its spotseresem- g g
bled the initials UGA. g :2 c
m .
a o 3'
9 8 3
'° 9.
9.. O .....

l

986T ‘I Irldv - ElelElIHl dew.

 




 

oing Right by
ats and Dogs

THAT’S DR. ANITA
Migday, right,
with her top
dog, who an-
swers to the
name of Treble
Clef. Dial got the host of the new pet
care series Cats 69’ Dogs to pose with
her bull mastiff before she set off
for her Framingham, Massachusetts,
veterinary clinic. From the series’
companion publication, Pet Tips
from “Cats €9’ Dogs,” we’ve chosen
some most-asked—about cat quan-
daries and dog dilemmas:
How often should my pet visit the veteri-
narian for exams and vaccinations?
When you first acquire a dog or cat, it
may need two or three visits, three or
four weeks apart. An annual visit
thereafter will suffice, unless your
pet has been diagnosed as having a
condition which requires more fre-
quent professional attention.
Why should I spay or neuter my pet?
There are many good reasons to
spay a female dog or cat. By Spaying
(or sterilizing) your pet at six months
of age, before it ever experiences a
heat cycle, you can significantly re—
duce the chance of breast cancer and
uterine infections in the pet’s future.
Spaying also enables you to practice
“planned pethood” and avoid un-
wanted pregnancies that only
worsen the pet overpopulation prob-
lem. Neutering (or castrating) a male
pet is equally important. It is a per—
manent form of birth control, elimi-
nates many objectionable behaviors,
and reduces the risk of prostate in-
fections as the pet ages.
At what age should canine obedience
training begin, and what basics should
my dog learn?
Obedience training should begin, in
most cases, at sixteen Weeks, but you
can teach an older dog new tricks,
too. The best obedience training
should take place with you and your
dog present, since the learning pro-

 

 

22 DIALAPRIL 1986

 




PHOTOGRAPH BY RICK HORNICK

cess is for the owner as well as the
animal. The basic obedience com-
mands—“sit,” “stay, come,” “heel,”
and “down”—should always be in-
cluded. Furthermore, when the
owner says “no,” the dog should un—
derstand the meaning.

Are cats and dogs really natural
enemies?

To call them “enemies” would be in—
accurate, although it is true that dif-
ferent species (such as cats and dogs)
may act aggressively toward one an-
other due to insecurity and lack of
understanding. Food dishes, owner
attention, and pet “territories” are
the primary sources of dissention
among cats and dogs living together.
What should I teed my puppy? Wet tood,
dry tood, or a combination?

Puppies need a diet higher in pro-
tein than adult dogs. In most cases,
dry food that speciﬁes on the label
that it’s “nutritionally complete”
(meaning that it meets certain stan-
dards as a complete, adequate food
source for a puppy) is recom-
mended. Wet food has the advan—
tage of having a bit more ﬂavor and
attraction to the dog, but it tends to
be costlier without added nutritional
support. Dry food also has the ad-
vantage of providing a positive abra-
sive to help control dental disease
and the buildup of plaque and tartar.
If you’d like, you may add high-pro—
tein fresh foods such as scrambled
eggs, cottage cheese, lean beef, or
chicken to your puppy’s diet.

ls milk good for cats?

In most cases, especially with adult
cats (and older dogs), it is best to
avoid milk since these animals lose
the enzyme needed to digest lactose,
a significant sugar found in milk.
This lactose intolerance may cause
diarrhea or loose stool in many cats.
If a standard, nutritionally complete
cat food is used, milk should not be
necessary in your cat’s diet.

How often should I walk my dog?

The minimum frequency is three
times per day: in the morning, after-
noon, and evening. In most cases,
dogs will do very well with three ten-
to-fifteen-minute walks. More fre-
quent outings will not harm the dog,
butfewer than three walks are not
recommended.

’3 6‘

 

Cats & Dogs is produced by WGBH
Boston in, association u tit/1 the M assar/Iu-
setts Soriety for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals and is undorwrittm by Kat
Kan. Watch the series/or information on
how to obtain Pet Tips from “Cats 8c
Dogs.”

 

 

 

‘W'A'O AVODIW VLINV ONV 'lVlldSOH ‘IVIHOWEW T139NV "W'A'O NOINHOHL 8‘19 '8900 ‘9 81 V0 :lO UBOHGOHd 'NVWHBCINV'I NIBOH A8 CBUVdEIHd SVM .8900 ‘9 81 V0.. WOHJ Sdll 13d 'NOILVGNnOd 'IVNOllVOnGB HBOM A8 986W) LHDIHAdOO

DIALAPRIL 1986 23

 

 




PHILADELPHIA MAGAZINE - April 1986

SUBURBAN JOURNAL

 

BY GLEN DUFFY

PET CEMETERY _

When Cuddles goes to her ﬁnal resting place,

rthur Klein has cultivated

a voice tranquil as the

ﬂutter of angels’ wings.

It is a tool in this busi-

ness, his voice of choice

when the grieving con—
sider the well-planned holes of his pet
cemetery, hoping to bury their sadness
with their furry little pals.

Until a short while ago, Arthur ran the
whole cemetery complex here in Frazer:
The people are put in the part called Phila-
delphia Memorial Park, and the animals
are put in the part called Great Valley Pet
Cemetery. But it is all the same scenic
acreage and, oddly, much the same feeling

4eft behind. However, it is to the grief of
pet owners that Arthur applies a special
understanding.

“Pets are people, ” Arthur assures them
when they grow embarrassed by their
tears.

Today, Arthur sits behind his desk
comforting Ernie and Faye and their
daughter, who holds on her lap a card-
board box marked “Fragile.” Inside is the
dog. Is and was. Ernie and Faye give a
brief biography of Cuddles, a fun-loving
miniature schnauzer with alert ears. Cud-
dles recently got sick, grew weak and
mottled and, two nights ago, at the age of
15, she died. “It was ﬁve till 12,” Ernie
says. “I remember. ”

Arthur nods. “Well, let me just start by
saying this. We realize people treat pets
like people, and we run the cemetery the
same way. Pets are people. I like to say
you bury people because you have to, but
pets . . . pets you bury because you want
to. ”

“Yes, yes,” Faye says.

Arthur explains that Cuddles will be
buried in “garden F,” grave 350, eternal
neighbor of Trump, Buster and Spunky
Lips. Of the 3,000 pet plots here at Great
Valley, Cuddles will occupy somewhere
near the 2,000th. Two more gardens re—
main to be dug, and Arthur has acquired
the habit of wishing new acquaintances good
health by hoping that they will live long
enough to see all the holes ﬁlled.

Great Valley has been doing business,
Arthur says, since 1970. Then Cuddles

 

she goes in style.

was a puppy, soft and warm and new. She
had taken to climbing up on Ernie’s bed
when Ernie’s bed was in the dining room.
Everyone remembers. Ernie was re-
covering from an auto accident, injuries
that stayed with him even as the puppy
grew old. Some people do not shake off
things easily.

“Ernie wanted the dog to go dust to
dust—you know, disintegrate,” Faye tells
Arthur. “But then we thought of you. What
exactly is it? Are you just going to dig a
hole and put her in?” _

“Well, we have a number of options,”
Arthur intones. “We can just go with the
minimum, but I have to warn you, when
we’ve done that in the past we’ve had
people come back to visit the animal only
to ﬁnd a noticeable depression in-ground.
And, they come to me and they say, ‘My,
there’s a sunken grave there where my
dog is.’ So you have to decide what you
want.

“Now, let me explain the concrete

 

vault. . . .”

And Arthur explains the concrete vault
and other modes of burial here at Great
Valley, the last place pet owners can in-
vest their affection.

“And if you like, we have a small casket
we can put Cuddles in.”

Faye tries to read Ernie’s face, but the
language is not clear.

“No,” she says after a pause. “I think
that’s silly.”

“Just a minute, ” Arthur says, raising a
cautionary ﬁnger and—for just a mo-
ment—his voice, that voice of angel wings.
“Nothing is ever silly. Different maybe,
not to your taste, but not silly. Never silly. ”

SOME OF THEM ask to be buried next
to their pets. They sometimes insist. But
this is impossible. This is a pet cemetery,
not a people cemetery. But if they like,
they can reserve their plot at the edge of
the people cemetery next door, near the
thick treeline that eternally divides man

 

 




 

 

 

JOURNAL

from beast, close enough to play fetch in
the afterlife. ()ften. owners take that op-
tion.

()thers bring a Bible. They sometimes
bring a priest. There are several Biblical
selections that are specially relevant to the
Lord’s affection for beasts.

About ﬁve animals are buried here each
week. The clients are mostly ordinary
people, searching for dignity within their
means. It costs $170 without extras.

Of course, the basics here are not so
basic as what goes on in parts of western
Pennsylvania, where mass graves are all
too common. No, this cemetery is a mem-
ber of the National Association of Pet
Cemeteries, and the association does not
condone or tolerate animal abuse simply
because the animal happens to be de—
ceased.

Still, there are no extras for Ernie, Faye
and their daughter now, as they gather
near the deep, raw earth. Just the im-
mediate family, the grave, and the lan-
guage of eulogies.

For her part, Faye says, yes, she misses
the way Cuddles would spring off her little
hindquarters while dinner was prepared.
It was a nuisance at the time, but she’d
give anything for it now.

“This changes the whole house," she
~ says.

Ernie just nods.

Cuddles has been brought here in a
plastic bag that may once have contained
a loaf of bread. It has fallen to the daugh—
ter to unwrap the dog. They watch as Ar-
thur takes the naked animal in his arms
and lowers it into garden F, grave 350.
There is just a touch of ceremony in it—
‘ just the right amount. The family seems
comforted by the fact that Arthur knows
what goes where and how. Nearby, two
gravediggers stand sentry, professionally
inconspicuous. Another day, another hole.
They were working on people—holes ear-
lier this afternoon, and Arthur demands
the same conduct with pets. They would
no sooner carry on out there than they
would at a person's funeral. Not so much
as a lit cigarette.

Faye is the ﬁrst to dare a glance into
the grave.

“It’s like she's sleeping,” she says.

“Ernie . . . " she calls out to her hus-
band, who stands apart and quiet. “Ernie?
She looks good. Do you want to take a
last look?"

“Do you think I should?”

“It’s not so bad. Really. She looks good."

Ernie approaches cautiously.

“Look at her fur, ” Faye says. “She looks
better than when she was sick. "

“If I had the money I would . . . he
says, pausing, shaking his head, glancing
ever so brieﬂy at Arthur. “I just wish I
had that kind of money."

 

 

BY THE TIME the family has returned to
Arthur’s ofﬁce, the gravediggers have ﬁn-
ished their work, and garden F, grave 350
has become another patch of peaceful lawn.
The car pulls to a stop near two lovers
who ﬁnd the quiet of the cemetery con-
ducive to romance. Arthur passes, low-
ering his voice to leave undisturbed the
power of positive landscaping.

There is some awkwardness in dealing
with the now—empty box. lt is part tomb,
part trash. What can they do with it, really?
The box is big enough to accommodate a
stack of dinner plates, or perhaps a half-
dozen jars of preserves. But they couldn’t-
store anything in it now—not after Cud-
dles. And even in their grief they must
admit it is too shabby to memorialize. Still,
the daughter looks like she might want to
keep it, until Arthur holds out his hands

 

Arthur pulls out
pictures of previous pet
memorials, from
“Loyalty to All” to
“Mommy’s Darling.”

 

in suggestion. He sets the empty box aside
“for later.”

Then Arthur groups three chairs and
assumes a seat behind his desk, preparing
to conduct the last bit of business.

“Now we’ve come to that point,” he
begins. “You’ve already said you want no
marker. . .

“It’s not that we don't want one," Ernie
says, “It’s just. .

“That’s all right," says Arthur. “That’s
perfectly all right. But I’d like to show you
a few samples before you come to a ﬁnal
decision.”

He pulls out pictures of previous me-
morials, from “Loyalty to All" to “Mom-
my’s Darling.”

“Now I must tell you, we only allow
bronze out there,” Arthur says. “For the
sake of the overall appearance. A me-
morial costs $195 to 33365.”

There is a pause as Ernie weighs his
calculations against his grief.

“Is there any other way to. . ." he asks.

“A vase for flowers?” Arthur suggests.

Ernie and Faye hold a silent family con—
ference, their eyes brieﬂy meeting and
parting as they consider the possibilities
for Cuddles' ﬁnal resting place.

And then the silent answer. No.

“1 don’t think we'll ever see her again, ”
Faye explains.

There is one last matter to deal with in .

this business. Ernie watches himself as he
reaches into his wallet. “Visa," he says,
shaking his head. “I don’t believe it. " ll

 

 




HOUSTON CHRONICLE - March 25, 1985

’Dancing with elephant isn’t much fun’

More cautious zoo keeper able to joke about animal’s attack

 

By REBECCA TROUNSON
Houston Chronicle

 

One day after he was picked up by
an Asian bull elephant and shoved
against a wall. zoo keeper William
Neuser was able to joke about his
frightening experience.

“Dancing with an elephant isn‘t too
much fun. especially when the ele-
phant wants to lead all the time,”
Neuser said Monday.

Neuser. 27. was hosing down sev-
eral elephants at the Houston Zoo on
Sunday afternoon when Thai, a 9,500-
pound male, reached into the enclo-
sure. picked the keeper up and
dragged him across the barrier into
his own area.

Neuser, left dazed and bruised but
otherwise unharmed, said Monday
that the attack was his own fault. He
said he had been much too close to
Thai, who was in a particularly dan-
gerous period called musth.

“He’s got a long trunk. I just got too
close to him.” the keeper said.

During musth. a seasonal rutting
phase during which male elephants in
the wild establish their hierarchy. an
elephant is “geared to fight." said Lu-
cille Sweeney. who supervises the ele-
phants at the zoo. “If they‘re in
musth. they can be fine one minute
and ready to kill the next."

Neuser said he remembers little of
what happened, saying he lost con-
sciousness almost immediately after
the elephant grabbed him.

“The last thing I remember was
hosing down the baby and two fe-
males.“ he said. “The next thing I
knew Bob was dragging me out."

Bob Monroe. a laborer at the zoo
who helped rescue Neuser, said he
had been in a neighboring enclosure
and saw the incident. He said Neuser
was hosing down a female elephant
when the 200‘s playful baby elephant,
Beau Thai, tried to grab the hose.
, Thai, the 200’s only bull elephant, was
less than five feet away, across a
wooden barrier.

“Bill turned and put himself in a

position where Thai could reach him. '

He grabbed him around the waist and
dragged him over the bars," Monroe
said. “He turned Bill to face him and
then held him around the neck,
against his tusk.” '

Monroe said Neuser. hanging limp.
was held for at least a minute before
the elephant took about eight steps
backward and dropped him.

Monroe and Sweeney, who had been

called almost immediately, tried to
distract the elephant, calling him
from just outside the enclosure. But
Neuser moved slightly as he regained
consciousness. The elephant charged
and shoved him upside down against
the wall.

The next time the zoo keepers suc-
ceeded, with Sweeney, who trains the
elephants, distracting Thai while
Neuser crawled out of the enclosure
and collapsed in the neighboring ele-
phant enclosure. Monroe then
dragged him to safety.

The 200 keepers stressed that dan-
ger is part of their job, especially
when dealing with male elephants in
musth. “When they’re in this condi-
tion, no bull elephant is responsible
for what it’s doing,” Sweeney said,
saying that different elephants are in
musth for different lengths of time.

Both Sweeney and Zoo Director
John Werler said elephants are po-
tentially the most dangerous animals
in a zoo. Of those, male elephants in
musth are by far the most dangerous,
they said.

And both chastised the young
keeper for being careless, saying he
turned his back and apparently forgot
how close he was to the big male.

The zoo officials said they did not
think Neuser would be disciplined for
the incident, saying he had probably
been punished more than enough al-

ready. “I h0pe it will get through to,

Bill to pay attention," Sweeney said.

Sweeney also discounted reports
that Thai was an unusually mean or
vicious animal, although she said that
before he was acquired by the zoo in
1980, he was present when two of his
former handlers were killed by other
elephants.

She said the incidents underscored
just how dangerous elephants can be,
but said Thai had not been involved in
either attack. On each occasion, the
animal involved was in musth.

Thai was then owned by a private
dealer and was rented to small cir-
cuses as part of a five-elephant act.
In the first incident, an elephant
trainer decided to use Thai and an-
other male in her act while both ani-.
mals were in musth. She slipped and
was tusked and killed by the second
elephant.

In the other attack, the body of the
dealer was found beneath another
bull elephant in an area containing
both Asian and African elephants, all
of them in musth. Thai was one of
many in the herd.

Sweeney described Thai as a good

 

» ' as: a:
Carlos Antonio Rios Chronic

Houston 200 keeper William Neuser, who was slightly injured t
one the 200’s elephants Sunday, says the attack will not dete
him from working with the animals.

elephant and a clown. “He’s got a ter-
rific personality and considering our
ancient facilities, he’s really an ex-
ceptionally good bull,” she said.
Neuser, who worked as an animal
keeper with Ringling Bros, Barnum
and Bailey Circus for five years be-

' fore he joined the zoo staff, said he

had long been interested in elephants.
Last year, he got a picture of an Afri-
can elephant tattooed on his forearm.

“They’re just fun to work with,” he
said. “They’re really smart and have
personalities.”

Neuser said he will not hesitate i
go back into the elephant enclosur
when he returns to work, probabl
later this week. But he said neither l
nor the animal is likely to forget it
incident in a hurry.

“He’ll see me, and remember m
and say, ‘There’s my toy,’ " Neusi
said. “He’s got enough toys. Why d
he have to pick on me?"

Will he be fearful of Thai?

“No,” he said. “Just a lot mor
careful.”

 




 

 

 

 

 

what a day.

*-

 

 

Hump d8 du I 9 A Bactrian camel yawns While catching a few rays at the Kansas City 200. With temperatures climbing into the low.

803, last week was a great time to sunbathe in Kansas.

 

 

 




SOUTHEAST/ Greater Miami (9 the Beaches

Happy Birthday
Monkey jungde

One of Miami’s veteran attractions, Monkey
jungle, is celebrating its 50th anniversary this
year.

As well as an attraction, Monkey jungle is
a research facility, a pioneer in primate
husbandry, and one offew zoological parks
in the country where the animals are semi-ﬂee.

Species of monkeys on the property include
java macaques, squirrel monkeys, red bowlers,
baboons and diana monkeys, to mention just
a few. All of the great apes are represented—
gorilla, chimpanzee and orangutan— as well
as gibbons. Among the pro-simians are
languars and marmosets. Many of the species
are endangered, and Monkey jungle has been
active in breeding many of these for return
to the wild.

Monkeyjungle is located 22 miles south of
Miami and is open every day ofthe yearfrom
9:30 a.m.-5.°00 p. m. Admission is $6 for adults
and $3 for children ages 5 to 12. Travel agents
with groups are encouraged to call and make
arrangements. Discounted rates for groups of
20 or more are $5 for adults and $2.50 for
children. CONTACT Monkey jungle, 14805 ' ' > ‘ _ ‘ p . ._ * ,j 123-7: ,
SW 216th St, Miami, FL 33170; 3052351611. E;- i ‘ ., w :5 ,. .

Muffin, the three year old star of
Monkey jungle’s Chimpanzee Show says, “Happy
Birthday” to the attraction celebrating its 50th
anniversary.

In 1935, Joe DuMond released half a dozen
macaque monkeys from Indochina. After a year of
keeping tabs on the people who stopped by to see
the monkeys, DuMond began charging 15 cents for
the privilege. Both Monkey jungle and the
monkeys prospered. The original 10 acre site has
grown and three generations later, the macaques
number about 100. Monkey jungle has nearly 50
different species living on 30 acres of wooded ham-

mock, and 150,000 people a year come to see
them.

 

Monkey Jungle offers visitors enter-
tainment, courtesy of Muffin, as well as an
educational opportunity to observe a number of
species of primates, many of them roaming free in
natural habitat.

The antics of the chimpanzees are the only
choreographed show at Monkey jungle, delighting
children with superb talents of mimicry and
performance.

 

 

RECOMMEND FLORIDA PAGE 45

 




 

 

Monkeys are able to accept han-
douts 0f raisins or nuts from visitors, but it is at
their own discretion. Here, the humans are caged
and the animals are free. lisitms tour the grounds
through a winding series of zi'alhieays, screened on

three sides. Monkevs roam freely on the outside.

()nginally there were no fences at Monkey jungle,
but it was found that the creatures felt much more
secure when visitors were caged. Today the entire
park is traversed uith the u'alhu‘ays.

* The Houston Post/Sun" March 30', 1986/ 19A

Because the animals are uncaged,
thcu cmnplcx social organization dei'clops much as
it (could in the zcild. ()Icner Man Ind/and said,
" We are much more than an attraction here—(c
are a behavioral facility l)(_)cument(m‘es have bl’t‘i:

i"

filmed here and groups from Harvard, Bucknell

and Florida Atlantic, among others. come here to
study."

 

 

 

The South American squirrel
monkeys thrice in the Amazonian Rainforest
section of Monkey jungle. Imported foliage and
supplemental irrigation have recreated the animals'
natural habitat in the Peruvian Amazon on ten
acres of the grounds.

The monkey’s acceptance of the recreated forest
as home has led to successful breeding, and con—
tributed greatly to the husbandry procedures in
rearing this imfmtant research species.

 

 

 

 

 

 

I

'Houston,

”Q‘s-:05
o O:
.C—“'-
gram;
L- :3
23‘0”
£3153
h°bo
135:0)
szm
<‘QBE
o 0
IIEBE
“6:5;
€9.9—
dam-‘3
@552
"U “a:
:m
OQCO
L O:
E:
“’5
'°o
m.
I50
XV)
0CD
l—u
mﬂ
.E

or in th

Beauty and the
Fort Worth meets

200 last week

the beast,




Floppy-cared guards

cut livestock losses
on Hill Country ranch

Continued from page 1D

in other pastures among the
18,000—20,000 acres owned or leased
by the Bushongs.

Predators pose particular prob-
lems for the Bushongs and other
ranchers in this area, which is
home to about 95 percent of the
Angora goats in the United States
and a major center for mohair
production. \

In addition to coyotes, Russian
. boars, which were imported dec-
ades ago for hunting, now roam
the rugged hills in large numbers,
preying on livestock, deer and oth-
er small animals.

“They weigh 400 to 500 pounds
when full grown,” Bushong says of
the boars, “and they breed like
rabbits.”

While there is plenty of evidence
the donkeys are keeping would-be
plunderers away, the Bushongs
say, they have not found any sign
the four-legged guardians have
killed coyotes or boars while pro-
tecting goats or sheep.

Donkeys attack or defend with a
combination of powerful kicks
with either set of hooves, with
bites and with a low, deep sound
somewhat akin to a growl, Joan
Bushong says.

“We still get a kick out of hear-
ing them bray,” she said.

Perry Bushong, vice president
of the Mohair Council of America,
got the idea of guard donkeys
while talking to a fellow rancher
at a goat sale in Junction last
year. The other rancher was Using
donkeys to guard his animals and
was very enthusiastic about them,
Bushong said.

He now has 11 animals — one
jack and 10 jennies -— at his ranch.
He paid about $150 each for them,
and plans to breed the jennies to
produce more.

The secret of training a donkey
for guard duty, Bushong says, “is
to make a goat out of them first.”

Training must start before the
donkey is 5 years old, or the ani-
mal is too old and too set in its
ways to be groomed for new du-
ties. They must be separated from
other donkeys and put in pastures
with the animals they eventually
will protect.

“They become so lonesome for
companionship that they begin

running with the goats or sheep,”

Bushong said. “Once they start
running with sheep or goats, they
become very protective of them.
This takes at least a month, but
then they are so protective that
you can throw in another donkey.”

Bushong emphasizes while
guard donkeys are an answer to
the predator problems plaguing
him and other ranchers, they are
not the answer.

“They don’t solve the problem,
but they are cutting our death
losses,” he says.

Donkeys are used in conjunction
with traps; toxic collars around
the necks of sheep, goats or other
vulnerable animals; dogs; and
careful patroling of the miles of
fence around grazing areas.

While the Bushongs have sever-
al well-trained border collies to
help herd and watch their goats
and sheep, the dogs cannot guard
against predators on a round-the-
clock basis in remote pastures the
way donkeys can. Dogs must be
fed regularly, and they can slip
beneath barbed wire fences into
adjoining pastures, leaving their
charges unguarded.

A major source of concern to z
the Bushongs and others who live '
and work year-round on their '

ranches are the absentee owners
of nearby or adjoining property.
Those ranches, he says, are home
to many predators because there
are not enough people around to
keep them under control.

It is only when predators begin
killing animals such as deer, ante-
lope, cattle and show horses that
absentee owners join in the fight
against the killers, Bushong says.

He has an assortment of exotic
game on his ranch, too -— mouflon
rams, blackbuck antelope, Corsi-
can rams, aoudad rams, axis deer
and others. But he is not sure
whether the donkeys’ guarding
chores extend to the exotics.

The Bushongs consider the use
of donkeys still in the experimen-
tal stage. One more winter of hav-
ing donkeys on duty should tell the
story.

“Next year at this time, we
should know,” he says. .

i

 

 

 

 




THE HOUSTON POST

March 30, 1986

FIoppy-eared sent'nels
ranchers' best friends

By FRED BONAVITA
Post Austin Bureau

 

MOUNTAIN HOME — Perry and Joan
Bushong’s friends and neighbors used to
laugh and kid them when they talked about
their guard donkeys last year. There were
more phone calls after a cover story on the
donkeys appeared in a goat raisers’ maga-
zine recently.

But, says Joan Bushong, “It isn’t a
laughing matter.”

One friend hung a sign at the entrance to
their Cedar Springs Ranch renaming it
“Bushong‘s Jackass Ranch” —— a gesture
the Bushongs enjoyed.

But the neighbors don’t laugh anymore.

They and others around this rugged
ranchland on the western edge of the Hill
Country now want to know more about the
11 donkeys protecting the Bushongs’ prized
Angora goats, Rambouillet sheep and other
livestock from predators.

“I’m a jackass authority now,” laughed
Perry Bushong, a fourth-generation ranch-
er who bought his first donkey last spring.

 

With the floppy-eared animals watching
over things and with other predator-control
devices in use, the Bushongs’ 3, 000 goats
and 600 sheep made it through the. past
winter with far fewer losses than expected.

“I’m willing to give the donkeys the
credit,” says Bushong, who is convinced of
their worth as guardians of the family
ﬂocks and herds.

A year ago things were not so upbeat as
spring arrived.

“They (the predators) really hit us in
’85,” Bushong says. “We lost many goats —
kids and grown goats — more than 250 of
them.”

As he spoke, a dozen ﬂeet-footed kids
scampered around the rim of a stone~and-
cement water tank about the size of a small
swimming pool, playing in the early spring
sunshine and warm air.

In a nearby field, dozens of goats and
kids grazed under the watchful eyes of two
of the Bushongs’ donkeys, Whitey and
Chocolate. The others were on guard duty

See Floppy-cared / page 5D

 

 

 

 

Post photo by Fred Bonavita

The Bushongs and one of their donkeys keep an eye on the goats: The neighbors aren ’t laughing anymore.

 




ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH - March 24, 1986 Styutagmgiggaigan

“Morty,” believed to the first rac-
. coon to undergo cataract surgery,
"was transferred to his new home

Sunday on a 500-acre farm in War-

ren County, M0.

The raccoon, who is a year old
and weighs 15 pounds, spent Sun-
day night in a pen on the farm. He
will be released into the woods
today. -

“He’ll probably be all right wher-
ever he goes,” said Suzie Sutton,
director of the Wildlife Rescue
Center in Kirkwood, as she
watched Morty sniff and climb the
wire walls of his pen. _

“He’s a tough, little cookie,” she
said.

Morty was blind until his success-
ful cataract operation in October.
The rare, delicate surgery was per-
formed by Paul V. Belkin, a veteri-

 

 

narian at the Suburban Animal
Hospital, 11763 Benham Road in
north St. Louis County. Sutton said
Belkin had performed the surgery
free of charge because he wanted
to try the technique on a raccoon.

Belkin used two needles to re-
move fragmented parts of the cata-
racts, a disease in which the crys-
talline lens becomes opaque,
causing blindness. For six weeks af-
ter the operation, Morty was given
eye medication and watched
carefully.

He recovered by Christmas and
has full sight in his right eye. The
vision in his left eye remains im-
paired, “but he can see very well,”
Sutton said Sunday. “He’s yanked
earrings out of ears.”

Morty’s cataracts were congeni-
tal, and he has been neutered so he
can’t pass on the disease, Sutton
said. She said neutered raccoons

 

“will still fight and do what it takes
to survive.” ’

Morty had gone to the rescue
center, 147 Grand Avenue, last
April when he was 5 weeks old. He f
and two siblings had been discov-
ered in the attic of a house in West
County, and the owner called the
center.

Karen ElshoutWhiteley/Post-Dispatch‘ ‘ thSuctézrtlefggoxtgrﬁforglggfieggsotﬁf

ﬂ ’9 ' -
hMorty, believed to be the first raccoon to to free himself from his cage Sunday. He is er raccoon, “Marvin,” to the prop-
ave cataract surgery, appears to be trying scheduled to be returned to the wild today. ' erty in Warren County on Sunday.
6 9 ' .. ‘ The owner of the property owner
M e , has asked to be unidentified.
arty Ready For I lfe In WOOds 4 Marvin was released into the
. . ' woods in an area separate from
' where Morty will be released.
“They’re both males, and they
won’t get along,” Sutton explained.
She said she hoped Morty would
return to the area of the house oc-

casionally so his progress could be
monitored. '

 

 

 




INSIGHT

GARY BANKHEAD

3/31/86

Martinez: No scars -— yet

Blond Matador

Raquel Martinez, a 5-
foot-S-inch, 120-pound
blond bullﬁghter from San
Diego, is battling double

’ odds to get to the top of her

chosen profession. She is a
U .S. citizen in a Latin Amer-
ican sport, and she must
overcome the macho prej-
udices of both the crowd and
her colleagues, who tend to
see her as a mata-doormat
rather than a talented athlete.

Martinez fell in love with
the elaborate rituals of the
bullring at 18, while watch-
ing a bullﬂght in Tijuana,
Mexico, in 1970. In 1978
she went to Mexico City to
train as a novillera (a semi-
pro), a title she held until
1981, when she became a
full-ﬂedged professional at
the bulking in Tijuana.

A matador must kill at
least two bulls during a ﬁght,
and Martinez has worked the

ring professionally 71 times.

She earns $1,000 to $7,000
per ﬁght in arenas across
Mexico, Central America
and South America.

She has not been seri-
ously injured or gored in her
career, a fact she attributes to
her size and weight. But in a
world where such scars are
seen as badges of honor, she

sometimes speaks wistfully

of such dangers.

“All my friends have
them, and I guess I’m sort of
jealous,” she says.

-— John Wall

 

 

_April 2, 1986

The New York Tim

Dog owners stopping to talk while walking their pets near a Warsaw housing development.

DOg Owners vs. Polish Government
Higher Taxes May Force Abandonment of More Animals

By Michael T. Kaufman
New York Times Service

WARSAW —- In Poland, a country of 37 million
people, where meat is rationed and apartments are
difficult to find, there are said to be seven million or
eight million dogs.

Poles evidently are willing to make sacrifices for
their dogs. People who line up for meat and live in
close quarters are seen walking Afghans or St. Ber-
nards as well as more compact breeds. In every neigh-
borhood, there are men and women who keep three or
four and even more dogs.

A film director said recently that the love of dogs
was a tradition carried over from the days when the
often impoverished rural aristocracy set standards of
behavior.

“A man was judged by the way he treated his horse,
his dogs and his wife, often in that order,” said the
director, Wojciech Marczewski.

But now the relationship between people and dogs
is being threatened by higher local dog taxes that in
some communities are costing dog owners the equiva-
lent of a surgeon’s monthly salary.

“We all know there are too many dogs,” said Bozina
Wahl, a painter who shares her attic apartment with
four dogs and five cats. “But raising taxes so steeply
will not reduce the number of dogs, it will just increase
the number of strays, cause misery for the animals,
bring suffering to their owners. It is irrational and
counterproductive.”

Miss Wahl owns an art gallery and IS one of three

honorary chairmen of Warsaw 5 chapter of the Animal
Protection Society, which seeks a rollback 1n the taxes
that went into effect this year.

One aspect of the law that she said she regarded as
ridiculous 15 that the rates vary, from a token payment
of $2 to $100 or more.

The result, she said, is that some people are register-
ing their pets with friends and relatives in low tax
areas.

Moreover, some places have reportedly reduced or
waived the taxes on purebreds while imposing them on
mongrels. ‘

“This 15 a case of racist Nuremberg laws for dogs,”
said Michal Nowak »« printer, who has a German
shepherd and two m. ;. :els.

“You know, of con: 5:, that members of the Kennel
Club were exempt from paying the old insignificant
tax,” he said, “and they can get ration cards for their
dogs that are not available to owners of mongrels. It is
all a part of Polish snobbism and ostentation. We can
hardly feed ourselves, so what do we do? We take our
big, registered pedigreed dogs for a walk.” ‘

Grzegorz Bachara, the director of the Animal Pro-
tection Society, is trying to obtain both a reduction in
the dog taxes and a more uniform local schedule of
charges.

Like Miss Wahl, he said it was doubtful whether any
government. devoted so many resources to pets as did
the Polish government. Dog food and subsidies were
even given to people who take in strays, but he said he
regarded the new taxes as misguided.

 

 




THE HOUSTON POST - March 28, 1986

Houston horse traders
to ride out depressed market

Economic doldrums take toll on 'backyard' variety

., Pharo also noted that economics will have
little effect on the extremely wealthy who keep
horses for pleasure.

“The really rich, it doesn’t ever really af-
fect,” she said. “And then there’s the horse
poor who will never give up their horses. They
may not get fed properly and they may not get
their shots properly, but they’ll be around.”

By HOPE E. PAASCH
Post Reporter

.Mortgage foreclosures are soaring. Every
month, another plant announces a cutback in
employees. And now, another appropriately
Texan indicator that the Houston economy is
in the dumps has surfaced:

The bottom has dropped out of the market
for horses.

In fact, at least one stable in town is offering
free horses to those who promise to board
those horses at the establishment for six
months.

The depressed market for horses —— especial-
ly the backyard variety — prompted one horse
tabloid editor to predict that the demand for
relatively inexpensive horses will continue to
decline until few run—of-the~mill animals exist.

But the problem doesn’t affect only those at
the bottom of the price list. ‘

Insurance policies

US. Postal Service inspectors have built
federal mail fraud cases recently against three
dozen people across the nation who are ac-
cused of knocking off their horses to collect on
insurance policies totaling $460,000.

Even prices at the slaughter house, which
ends up with a good many of the horses no one
else can afford, have dropped by half to a
paltry 25 cents per pound. That means an aver-
age horse weighing about 1,100 pounds would
sell for $275.

Horses sold to the “killers” often are sent to
Europe, where horse meat is considered a deli-
cacy.

Tight economics overall mean people have
less to spend on luxuries such as horses, which
cost a minimum of $200 per month just for
basic upkeep.

“Horses today have no economic value,
really,” said Olva Stewart Pharo, editor of The
Horse Sheet, a Houston-based tabloid. “All
these horses basically are for fun. When all of a
sudden you don’t have leftover cash, daddy

looks out the window and sees four horses that
the kids aren’t riding too much anymore.”

Pharo said she believes the tight economy
isn’t the only reason horses have dropped dras-
tically in price. “Prices had been high for a
long time,” she said. “The economy hit about
the same time as the inﬂated market.”

For example, she said, a horse that would’ve
sold several years ago for $1,500 had shot up in
value to $5,000. That same horse now could be
bought for only $300, she said.

“People get pragmatic at times like this,”
Pharo said. “I think we’ll see less and less of
the backyard variety of horses. People are
breeding better horses. You know the old say-
ing, ‘It costs as much to feed a bad horse as a

’7’

good horse. ._.._ . .

Livestock insurance underwriters are on the

verge of losing their shirts in some cases, said

Harold Blessing, claims manager for Hartford
Insurance Co. in Chicago, which underwrites
many horse insurance policies.

“It’s over—valuation of the animals that’s the
problem,” he said. A horse that sold once for
$85,000 can be insured for that amount, even
though it may be impossible to resell it for that
same price, he said. ’

“It’s just all speculation,” he said. “Some-
where down the road, that horse may be worth
only $45,000. It takes a very moral person to
correct his coverage.”

While his company has not had a significant
problem with false claims, Blessing said he
believes the problem does exist. He cited the
postal service investigation as proof.

“In most cases, policies cover malicious
mischief,” he said. “If the horse is shot by

g; someone who walks into the barn, then we're

5 stuck. It’s probably the guy who owns the
horse who did it, but to prove he did it is very
difficult.”

A couple of bright spots show through the

depressed market, however. Pharo said the
English riding horse market seems to be hold—
ing up, and even experiencing growth.
. “I think the Olympics had a lot to do with
it,” she said. “The money offered in competi~
tion has just started to go way up, too. A good
competitor might be able to make money at it
now.”

Another good point concerns people like El-
eanor Farley, a 16—year-old who said she has
wanted a horse for as long as she can remem-
ber. Six months ago, she finally got her horse.
The bonus was not having to pay for him.

Farley was the first person to take advan-
tage of the free horse promotion at the 4—J-N
Stables. She’s paid her $157 monthly boarding
fee six times now, and Chester is hers to keep.

Daryl Womack, foreman at the stable, said
the soft horse market made it feasible for the
stable to make its offer.

Pay off

“Now we can afford to get a good horse at a
good price,” he said. “We can get a good horse
for $300 or $400. It was double that two years
ago.”

He said the deal puts a financial strain on
the stable for the first couple of months, but
then the promotion begins to pay off. w

W

The only"‘stip’ulat"

*N. At

an the new QWner
rse can be moved to

six months at 4-J

eho

ion" is th

board for
t time, th

must pay full
the end of tha
another stable.

, Red.
ge person

she said._,j“lt’s

obably wouldn’t
3 worth it.”

’)

7

a.law student at the "Uni—
, said she pr
d

e o affor a horse if it h"

promotion. Now she s nds
gomg to visit her horse pe k
y good for the avera
own a horse

Nancy Reynolds,
vers1ty of Houston
n for the stable

have been abl t

bee

“This is real]

who wants to
tough (financially), but he’

six days a week

 




TUESDAY, APRIL 1, 1986

 

By THOMAS W. NETI'ER

G3

Galapagos Animals“ Still Threatened

 

 

'. £1232; LAND, Switzerland -- As-
. , saults of predators on rare
native species and the

" spreading effects of human
settlement may cause more damage
to the animals and plants of the
Galapagos Islands than the widely
publicized fires that ravaged more
than 100,000 acres on two of the is-
lands a year ago.

At a recent meeting here, the
Charles Darwin Foundation called
for a renewed international effort to
protect and rehabilitate the native
animals and plants.

Although more than $200, 000 in
emergency aid was channeled to the
islands by concerned governments
during the fire, the money is running
out at a time when scientists and
naturalists are battling introduced
species, such as dogs, cats, rats, pigs
and goats, that threaten ﬂora and
fauna unique to the islands. '

“If the areas are not restored, cer-
tain imported species could spread
into the fire zones faster than the en-
demic ones regenerate,” said Peter
Kramer, director of conservation at
the World Wildlife Fund, which was
host for a recent meeting here of
members of the Charles Darwin
Foundation and officials of Ecuador,
which owns the Galapagos.

Fires Burned for 8 Weeks

The fires, the first of which began
in February 1985 after eight months
of drought, were attributed to the
carelessness of settlers. They burned
for more than six weeks, and focused
worldwide attention on the 13~island
archipelago that spreads over an
area the size of Switzerland about 625
miles off the coast of Ecuador.

The attention led to emergency con-
tributions for firefighting, but that at-
tention is waning now, which
prompted members of the Darwin
Foundation to call for a renewed in-
ternational effort.

In addition to their symbolic value

in connection with the naturalist '

Charles Darwin’s theories of evolu-
tion, the Galapagos are among the
last existing wild habitats with many
native species, like the giant

Galapagos tortoise, that are found no-

where else.

A report presented at the meeting
here by the director of the Galapagos
National Park Service, Miguel Ci-
fuentes, said damage on the two is-
lands, Isabela and San Cristobal, was
widespread, but less severe than was

 

first thought.

“As far as we can determine no tor-
toises or iguana were killed, as we
feared,” Mr. Cifuentes said. “But
large tracts of habitat were lost and
bird species did suffer,” among them
Galapagos rails, Darwin finches and
Galapagos doves.

He said the fire ignited organic ele-
ments in the soil, and in one area de-
stroyed stands of endemic trees like
the Sapindus saponaria.

Continuing Dangers Cited '

FOr environmentalists the fire and

its aftermath represent a dilemma,
since the continuing environmental
dangers far exceed the fire’s highly
visible damage. The endemic ﬂora
and fauna of the islands have been
threatened by such animals as cats,
dogs and pigs left by passing ships or
introduced by the 6,000 or so settlers,
mostly Ecuadorean, who live on 10
percent of the land. The settlers,
many of them farmers, directly af-
fect the islands’ ecology with their
farming methods, and indirectly by
bringing in animals and plants not
unique to the islands.

This problem, Darwin Foundation
members say, is far more difficult to
deal with than fires.

I

A five-mile-long ﬁre
as it advanced last
year over the Island
of Santa Isabela in
the Galapagos ., ls-
lands. Inset, a fur
seal. ‘

 

 

 

Associated , Press.

“Satellite photographs can see the
fire, but they can’t see rats and plants
that are more problematic,” er.
Kramer said. “The fire becomes
problematic mainly because it wors-
ens other problems. It’s difficult for

donor nations to get excited about

problems with pigs and dogs, or a
plant that can kill off endemic vegeta-
tion much more efficiently but'less

dramatically than the flames.” f

In 1985, for example, a drought
killed many rats that had preyed on
small seabirds called petrels. ,Cats
that had fed on the rats then began to
prey on the petrels, reducing their _
colony critically and forcing conser-
vationists to kill 64 cats. In similar
ways, penguins, cormorants and rare
gulls are threatened. The World Wild-
life Federation says that there were
no predators before man introduced
them, and thus endemic animals de-
veloped no defenses.

Conservationists hope that height-
ened international interest in the is-
lands would allow the f-SOI‘atiOI’I of
the original habitat. But lack of
money has led to staff reductions at
the Charles Darwin Research Station
in the Galapagos, causing concern
about the future of such projects.

 




Cause of death sought

for turtles, porpoises
Evidence of mutilation

By HAROLD SCARLE'I'I‘
Post Environment Writer

 

About 20 dead sea turtles have

washed ashore on the Texas coast this
month, wildlife officials said Thursday,
and Some officials suspect the turtles
died needlessly in shrimpers’ nets.
‘ The dead turtles included some
Kemp’s ridleys, an endangered species,
and some were mutilated with their
heads and ﬂippers chopped off by ma-
chetes", officials said.

"Jack B. Woody, a US. Fish and Wild-
life Service specialist on sea turtles,
said some commercial fishermen and
shrimpers chop off the heads and flip—
pers of captured sea turtles so they
won’t get caught in nets again.

" ,Woody said the current surge of dead
turtles coincides with a peak period for
catching white shrimp.

But Dr. Ed Klima, director of the Na-
tional Marine Fisheries Service labora-
tnry in Galveston, said there is no real
evidence of how the turtles died, and
there is “just a possibility” they
drowned in shrimp nets.

“”1th very hard to look at a dead tur-
tle and determine what killed him,”
Klima said, “or even to make a determi-
nation that he drowned.”

- : Klima said about 10 dead porpoises
have Washed ashore in Texas along with

the turtles, and a larger number of por-
poises were found on Grand Isle, La.

“We do know that turtles get caught
in shrimp nets,” he said. “But we also
have these dead porpoises, and por-
poises never get caught in shrimp nets.
They just swim out of them.”

Klima said 20 or so dead sea turtles
have been found since the first of the
month along the entire Texas coast. Sev-
eral were found in the Galveston area,
he said.

Gary Matlock, a fishery specialist
with the Texas Parks and Wildlife De-
partment, said the state agency sent out
a reconnaissance plane Wednesday after
hearing reports of dead turtles washing
ashore.

He said the plane crew spotted at
least five dead turtles, possible seven,
on beaches between Galveston and Port
O’Connor. Wildlife officers are being
sent to check the dead turtles on the
ground, he said.

Woody, the Fish and Wildlife Ser-
vice’s national sea turtle coordinator,
has been a leader in an 8—year-old joint
program of the United States and Mexi-
co to save the endangered Kemp’s ridley
turtle.

As part of that same program, Klima
has been directing a program of raising
young Kemp’s ridleys in the Galveston

lab. They are released when 1 year old

THE HOUSTON POST - March 28, 1986

 

 

 

Post file photo

This ridley hatchling is one of several found on Texas beaches.

with the hope they will start a new nest-
ing ground on Padre Island, where they
have been “imprinted.”

Woody has been campaigning for a
requirement that shrimp boats must
equip their nets with “trawling efficien-
cy devices” (TEDs) which give turtles
and commercially valuable fish an es-
cape hatch from the shrimp nets. This
would reduce the wasteful destruction of
seafood, he contends.

Shrimpers have resisted, however,
saying they barely keep afloat financial-
ly anyway, and installing the TEDs
would bankrupt them. Woody contends
this is an exaggeration.

Woody said there was a similar wash-
up of dead turtles last fall, and an inves-
tigation was conducted to find the cause

of death, but he never heard any results.

Klima said the NMFS investigated
last year’s turtle deaths but could not
establish a cause.

“We sure would like to know the an-
swer,” he said, “but it’s very hard to
determine. ’ ’

Woody told a Gulf of Mexico Fishery
Management Council meeting in Hous-
ton in January that an estimated 50,000
threatened or endangered sea turtles
are trapped in shrimpers’ nets each
year.

It is such a common occurrence, he
said Thursday, that when scientists re-
cently outfitted two sea turtles with sat-
ellite signaling devices for tracking pur-
poses, both turtles wound up in
shrimpers’ nets within 30 days.

 




'0 l -vaI‘C

’1

fTAdopt —a?- horse program alive
well In Houston area stables

\H.

{'52.
“1‘.

By HOPE E. PAASCH
i’ost Reporter ’ 7.

Little more than a year ago, Mustang Sally Was

' tied up from the Nevada Wild by federal govern-

‘irl‘ment helicopters and forced to join human c1 1'
.. non '*

hnjoy the comforts of domestic life.

.1. Now, she lives a docile life in a stable 'seermng'to'ij

Instead of scouring the landscape for some grass
to munch, Mustang Sally has a regular diet of hay

and grain delivered to her twice a day.

“When we first got her, she oeuldn’ :t helieve she

had all this hay and all this water and it was all
hers,” said Diane Savage, who paid $125 to adopt

Sally a year ago from the U S. government’ s 1311- »
xreau of Land Management. “For a while there, she .

Was her own little ecological machine”.

Though she had never been touched by humans
fhefore her capture, Mustang sally has grown accus-
turned to her owner. In her first shew last week,

Sally won first place in the halter class
*“ "T“She just loves civilization,” Savage mid,

Stood for two hours last Sunday While I groomed
her. She trusts that I’m not going to hurt her She s '

stdl skittish about new tinngs, but I think that’s her ~'

cage as much as anything She’s still .inmS»: "

Savage said she and her husband, Steve Brown-p
ing decided to look into horse adoption While sitting

around with some friends one evening last year.

“We had heard about the adoption program andp’figi

thought that, it there ever was a way to test our "*i-‘ffa

skill and what we had learned, this was it,” $511+?

said, noting they had been actively involved " "th
horses for only about three years ‘ .
After a blitz of reading everything they .

 

Diane Savage of Houston says Mustang SaIIy. adopted for $125, 'just loves civilization?

M.-

<E-igabout mustangs and talking to others with mere

horse experience Savage contacted the BLM to
get on a priority. list for an upcoming adaption in

. .isempowered by Congress to control
tion of Wild horses and burros in Nevada

and Wyoming by removing them and offering them
* r _ tion at centers across the nation. Almost 300

I jgiim most recent ELM adoption in Houston was in

Nevember Bureau spokesman Murray Hernandez
:7 said another adeption probably Willbe
the end of the year

beheld near

Hernandez said the program has a high success

’35:; rate and less than 1 percent of those who adoPt
horses call the bureau to request that the animal be

'23:; paired up.

“There were 55 horses in Sally’s sale,” Savage
said. “Her group had been rounded up in late win-
ter They Were all half-starved, filthy and smelly.
3} were rounded up with helicopters and on
horseback

',:.?'}“The Way they re treated 1s not really inhumane
It’s just the on: way your an handle them. They’ re
freeze-branded wormed, checked for diseases and

swim“; ailnonth of the time she had been caP'. 4

i’ r We were loading her up to take her home.”
"~~:Satrage and her husband had heard tales of mus-
tangs who refused to cooperate for the ride home,
and they had rented an extra large trailer to give
' ,g‘y extra room for the trip back to Houston
“Would you believe that the whole way back she
in that trailer just like that?” Savage said,

lilting to Sally standing placidly in a corral. :

= ht she let me in the stall to rub her.’

Post photo by King Chou deq

.w...,_...-.._ . ., _,_,

H “Her favorite thing is ”to With me aroundandf’f

‘ ..:...,1,., ,m, h"

After a week-of lettin

surroundings

that she i

g Sallyget used to her neW I
, Savage began to
3 used to humans and

ready for more extensive trainin
plans to hire a professional to he

chew on me because she knows I’m eas

doesn’t have a mean bone in her.”

work with her. Now

y. But she.

‘

halters, Sally is
g. Savage said she

1p out.
p, and she

Savage said she owns several other horses and ,

me

Q

i

t expensive to ma

admitted it sometimes gets a b

tain them all.

’5 going to

in; smart as a whi

make a fine little horse

I!

“Sallv is

“To be able to come out here and mess with the

d. “We haven’t had
She has not refused

ve had a saddle on her, and I’ve been

,” she sai

Q

s is pro

horse

any problems at all with her.

5' me anything. I’
: on her.

pensive form of thorns

,” she said. “I'd give up a whole lot.

bably the least ex
of things before I’d give up my horses.”

py I could have

 

 

 




