 

 

w.w-€::ﬁ

H‘Em Fﬁwzmwvm WWHMZU

 

 

 

 




 

Bob-White——The Farmer’s Friend

Of the several species of quail found in the United States the most
faithful friend of the farmer is our own Co/inus t'irgz'niamts a name
which includes not only the typical bird of. the Eastern states. but also
the two sub-species of Florida and Texas. Although slightly changed by
climate and environment, it is practically the same bird that ranges over
the hills of New England, through "Virginia and the Carolinas. south—
ward to the sunny shores of Florida and also westward to South Dakota.
Kansas and Texas.

This quail has long been popular as an article of diet, and also for
the beauty of his modest coat, and the music of his voice, whether it is
the cheery whistle ringing over sunlit ﬁelds, or the softer covey-call which
summons the flock to a common resting-place in the shades of evening.

But it has taken science a long time to ﬁnd out his greatest value—it
is to the facts and ﬁgures of the Biological Survey that we are indebted
for the knowledge that, while Bob-\Vliite is very seldom guilty of tres—
pass, he is of constant value as a destroyer of weeds and injurious in—
sects. From a careful examination of many hundreds of stomachs, it has
been found that from early autumn until spring his food consists prin—
cipally of vegetable matter, a portion of it being found by gleaning the
fallen grain in ﬁelds where the harvest has been gathered; but aside from
this the main food of the quail during the autumn and winter consists of
the seeds of noxious and troublesome weeds—these seeds, indeed, making
up an average of one—half of his diet for the whole year.

ll’Vec’ds Eighty—ﬁve different weeds have been found to contribute.
largely to the bird’s menu. and his marvelous appetite is his most valu—
able asset. Crops and stomachs have been found which were crowded
with rag—weed seeds to the number of 1,000, while another had eaten as
many seeds of crab grass. A bird shot in October of 1902 at Pine Brook.
in New Jersey, had eaten 5,ooo seeds of green fox—tail grass. and one
killed on Christmas Day of 1901 at Kinsale, Va, had taken about 10,000
pig-weed seeds.

In relation to Bob-White’s valuable services as a weed destroyer in
only two states, the Government report says: “It is reasonable to suppose
that in the states of Virginia and North Carolina from September I to
April 30 there are four Bob—VVhites to each square mile of land, or 354.820
in the two states. The crop of each bird holds half an ounce of seed and
is ﬁlled twice a day. Since at each of the two daily meals. weed seeds
constitute at least half the contents of the crop. or one—fourth of an. ounce.
a half-ounce daily is consumed by each bird. On this basis, the total
consumption of weed seeds by Bob-\Nr/‘hites from September I to April 30
in Virginia and North Carolina amounts to 1.34I tons.” (P. 1.1., B111. 21,
Bureau of Biological Survey.)

When we consider that a single one of these might produce a plant
bearing thousands of seeds in a .single season, and this process. if
unchecked, would in three years produce not millions. but billions of

"(am
Author

9 .an

 

 

 




Bob-White—The Farmer’s Friend 3

weeds, we may get some idea of the value of the quail as a weed
destroyer a work in which he is ably assisted by the mourning dove,
the meadow lark and other allies.

Besides weed seeds and grain, he also eats more or less of the seeds of
pine and maple, acorns and beech nuts, as well as of various wild fruits
in their season, including the berries of poison ivy.

The Chine/7. Bug—After a winter in which a vegetarian diet has
largely predominated. Iiob-W’hite has no desire for the sprouting grain,
but in the early spring he is out on the war path hunting for animal food.
Although in most climates he can ﬁnd more or less insect food during
every month in the year, his bright eyes are always on the lookout for
the earliest comers among the insect pests, and during the spring, summer
and autumn, his services in this direction are invaluable. The chinch
bug leads the list of expensive insects with a tribute levied upon the
American farmers which is estimated at $100,000,000 per year. This
destructive little pest invades the wheat ﬁelds in armies, but Bob—White
leads his covey to the fray, and if he had warriors enough he could eradi—
cate the foe, for the bugs winter in just such situations as are frequented
by the quail, and the birds feast upon them whenever they are available.

In a letter to the Department of Agriculture, Mr. M. A. Page, of
Garnett, Kansas, says of the quail: “On opening the crop, we found
about two tablespoonsful of chinch bugs.” ‘

The Grasshopper stands next in the amount of damage done, and
$90,000,000 per year is a conservative estimate of his tax upon this
country. for he. sometimes devastates whole states. But here, too, Bob—
\Vhite is on duty with the meadow larks, all of them feeding voraciously
upon the invader.

The Potato Bug is another enemy which has cost the American
farmer a vast amount of trouble and expense. In spite of large expendi—
tures for poisons, this beetle still costs us about $8,000,000 per year.
Very few birds will touch the disgusting creatures, but the rose—breasted
grossbeak and faithful Bob-VVhite are always ready for them. The
potato bug is not an occasional article of food, but when available is
made a constant article of diet; one crop of a quail has been found to
contain 100 of them; neither is this useful habit of protecting the potato
vines conﬁned to any one locality. Reports to the same effect have come
to the Biological Survey from Ontario, New Jersey, Virginia, Maryland,
Iowa, Nebraska, Kansas and Texas. In some cases of badly infested
potato vines, Bob—Whites have been seen patrolling the rows and care—
fully picking off the bugs.

The erxiemt C 0H0” Boll Weevil came over the border in 1894 and
less than ten years later it was costing America $15,000,000 per year,
and these ﬁgures soon rose to $20,000,000. As yet it is mostly conﬁned to
Texas, but threatens to sweep over the entire cotton belt. Hence all the
cotton states would do well to prohibit the shooting of a single quail
until this foe is exterminated. for Bob—White is looking for him and
feeding upon him. F. M. Howard. of Beeville, Texas, writes to the
Bureau of Entomology that the Bob—Whites shot in his Vicinitly had their
crops ﬁlled with the weevils. Another farmer reports his cotton ﬁelds
full of quail and the entire absence of weevils.

 

 




Bob—White—The Farmer’s Friend

Bob—VVhite also destroys the striped cucumber beetle which makes-
such havoc with cucumbers, squashes, etc. In fact, he has to his credit
a list of ﬁfty—seven different beetles, twenty—seven varieties of bugs, nine
species of grasshoppers, locusts and their kindred, and thirteen sorts of
caterpillars, besides ants, ﬂies, wasps, spiders, etc. The crops and giz-
zards examined in the Government laboratories to ascertain the charac-
ter and proportions of the quail’s food, were collected from twenty-one
states, besides Canada, District of Columbia and Mexico.

These birds are especially valuable during the nesting season, as
the young feed almost entirely upon insects, twelve or more different
species having been identiﬁed as the food of the downy chicks.

PROTECTION FOR VALUABLE BIRDS.

It is freely admitted that when abundant, the quail is a legitimate
game bird, but he is worth so much more in the farmer’s ﬁeld than in the
stomach that, until they become superﬂuous, it behooves him to protect
them in every possible way, especially in the cotton states, where the
killing of a quail should be absolutely forbidden fOr a term of years, or
until the Mexican cotton boll weevil becomes a thing of the past.

What with lawless slaughter in many cases, severe winters in the
North and the numerous enemies with which they have to contend, it
is a lamentable fact that the numbers of quail is decreasing almost every—
where. But it is both hardy and proliﬁc, and with proper protection will
not only hold its own but gain in numbers.

Man is Bob—White’s worst enemy, but by shorter open seasons, with
rigid game laws carefully enfurcea’, it may be possible to enable the
bird to gain ground even in localities where he is threatened with
extinction. Some wise farmers, especially in Maryland and Virginia, are
feeding their quail in cold weather. Wheat, buckwheat, corn, millet and
other grains may be used for this purpose and should be scattered, if
possible, under briars where they may have some protection from hawks.
BOb-VVhltGS have been known to feed with the chickens on Sarasota Key,
off the western coast of Florida, as well as at other points farther north.

In cold climates a sheaf or two of grain might be placed on a plat-
form slightly raised above the snow, and thus afford them both food
and shelter. Sumac trees and berries should be left for their beneﬁt, and
also the edges of grain in the wheat ﬁelds, for the farmer can well afford
to feed this most valuable ally in his ﬁght against weeds and insects.

 

 

Special Leaﬂet 17—Nationa1 Association of Audubon Societies New York, March, 1908

 




