HUMANE EDUCATION LEAFLETS
No. 2. BIRDS

Selections of Choice Literature for Schools and Bands of Mercy

 

Published at the Offices of the American Humane Education Society, the Massachusetts Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, and the Parent American Band of Mercy-

LONGWOOD AVENUE. BOSTON

Price of the Leaflets. postpaid, twelve for five cents, or thirty cents per hundred

 

 

TO A WATER FOWL

Whither, ’midst falling dew,
While glow the heavens with the last steps of
day, .
Far, through their rosy depths, dost thou
pursue
Thy solitary way?

Vainly the fowler’s eye
Might mark thy distant ﬂight to do thee
wrong,
As, darkly painted on the crimson sky.
Thy ﬁgure ﬂoats along.

Seek’st thou .the plashy brink

Of weedy lake, or marge of river wide,

Or where the rocking billows rise and sink
On the chafed ocean side?

There is a Power whose care
Teaches thy way along that pathless coast,
The desert and illimitable air——

Lone wandering, but not lost.

All day thy wings have fanned,
At that far height, the cold thin atmosphere,
Yet stoop not, weary, to the welcome land,
Though the dark night is near.

And soon that toil shall end;
Soon shalt thou ﬁnd a summer home, and rest,
And scream among thy fellows; reeds shall
bend,
Soon, o’er thy sheltered nest.

Thou art gone, the abyss of heaven
Hath swallowed up thy form; yet, on my
heart _ ,
Deeply hath sunk the lesson thou hast given,
And shall not soon depart.

He who, from zone to zone,
Guides through the boundless sky thy certain
ﬂight,
In the long way that I must tread alone
Will lead my steps aright.

BRYANT.

 




 

AIGRETTE PLUMES: THE WHITE
BADGE OF CRUELTY

No form of feathered adornment has been
and is more harmful in its effects than the
wearing of “aigrettes” or herons’ plumes.
These dainty, graceful feathers, unlike the
distorted skin of some poor humming bird or
warbler, carry with them no suggestion of
death, and many a woman on whose bonnet
they are placed is wholly ignorant of the
unspeakable cruelty the taking of these
feathers entail. If each plume could tell its
own sad history, every humane woman in
the land would raise her voice in protest
against a fashion which threatens with ex-
tinction one of the most beautiful of animate
creatures.

Aigrette plumes constitute the wedding
dress of the several species of white herons
or egrets, and are worn only during the
nesting season. The birds are exceedingly
sociable in disposition, and, when breeding,
gather in colonies or rookeries, often con-
taining hundreds of pairs.

The plume hunter, armed, preferably with
a small riﬂe, shoots the parent birds as they
return with food for their young. The bird
falls, the slight report of the riﬂe does not
alarm others that soon follow, and within a
few days most of the parents have been killed,
while the nestlings, lacking their care, die of
starvation.

.The method is simple—any boy with a
gun can become a plume hunter—but so
effective that at the present rate of destruc-
tion the herons will soon succumb to it. A
Florida plume hunter once told the writer
that with two or three assistants he had
killed 300 egrets in one afternoOn; another
boasted that he and his party had killed
130,000, birds, mostly plume birds, during
one season.

Having practically exterminated the egrets
in Florida, plume hunters have turned their
attention to other‘ parts of the birds’ range;
advertising in local papers, offering large
prices to native hunters, and organizing ex-
peditions to explore the coasts and inland
marshes, from our southern boundaries to
the Argentine Republic.

To prevent the killing of birds throughout
this great region is obviously impossible,
and laws which alone prohibit their destruc‘
tion are valueless. Until, therefore, laws
are passed forbidding the wearing of aigrettes,
the salvation of the herons rests solely in
woman’s hands.

Can any humane woman, knowing these
facts, wear in her bonnet this White Badge
of Cruelty—undeniable evidence of her ap~
proval of merciless slaughter and indescrib-
able suffering?

FRANK M. CHAPMAN.

MIN STRELS OF THE SPRING

Ye little birds that make the morn
Melodious with mirth,
All the fair promise of the Spring
Is in your happy carolling
Proclaiming Joy’s rebirth;
O sing away the livelong day
Your tirra—lirra—lirra lay,
To gladden this gray earth!

Since ever this old world began
And, ﬂuttering to the’breeze,
The Spring her banners green unfurled,
Those same gay songs have cheered theworld —
Your sweet bird symphonies!
Yet ever new the hopes they bring
“7hen tender buds are blossoming,
And harps hang in the trees!

O happy are the thoughts that come
A-winging at your song,

To nestle close within my heart,

There to abide and ne’er depart--
The tuneful, joyous throng—

Through all the long, sweet April day!

So sing away! Your roundelay
Make full and loud and long!

LOUELLA C. POOLE.

BIRD—LAND MU SIC

The morning chorus of the spring is a
wonderful performance, and the only price
of admission is early waking. With the
first glint of daylight in the east here and
there a faint chirp will break upon the ear
as some sleeping bird awakes; then as each
performer tunes his pipe, little trills and bits
of song are heard. These increase in number
and variety, until with the coming of full
day the air is ﬁlled with melody. This
continues for an hour or more; then one by
one the singers drop out for breakfast and
household duties, and during the day only
fragments of song are heard.

Again, as evening comes on, the dainty
minstrels express their gratitude for the
blessings of the happy day, and the evening
chorus almost rivals in variety and excel-
lence that of the morning. It continues
until the shades of night are drawn, when
each faithful chorister, seeking a secluded
nook near his nest, tucks his head under his
wing, and sleeps till a new morn ﬂushes the
east again, for “early to bed and early to
rise” is the rule in bird land,

ALBERT FIELD GILMORE.

The least and last of things
That soar on quivering wings
Or crowd among the grass—blades out of sight,
Have just as clear a right
To their appointed portion of delight
As queens or kings.

(2-2)




THE SPARROW’S SERMON

The pastor of a Brooklyn, New York,
church was preaching one Sunday morning
to a languid audience, for it was a hot, sultry
day in summer. The windows were all open
for ventilation, but scarcely a breath of air
was felt. The atmosphere was oppressive
and the service dragged. When the preacher
was about half way through his sermon, a
sparrow ﬂew through one of the open win—
dows and startled the drowsy audience by
ﬂying round the church, at times threatening
to light on one or other of the ladies’ bon-
nets. At length it lighted on the communion
rail, directly in front'of the pulpit and in full
View of the audience, and there settled down
quietly. All eyes were intent upon it. The
discourse had been rudely interrupted, but
as if by inspiration the preacher was seized
with the thought to change his theme, speak
of God’s care for his children, and use the
little bird as an object lesson. This he did,
quoting the Savior’s words in Matthew vi.
26: “Behold the fowls of the air: for they
sow not, neither do they reap, nor gather
into barns; yet your heavenly Father feed-
eth them. Are ye not much better than
they?” The audience was intensely in-
terested, every mind was alert, every soul
thirsty for the comforting truth. The little
creature remained perfectly quiet and seemed
as much interested as any of the rest. Just
before the sermon was ended the little bird
ﬂew out of one of the windows, having left
a message of hope and comfort to tired hearts.

THE LOVES OF THE BIRDS

The love of a bird for the treasures of her
nest is one of the most beautiful things of
this world. Mother—like, the parent bird
will do anything almost for the sake of her
little ones. Who has not seen the killdeer
strive with all the tact of her clever little
soul to allure some big giant of a human
being, who has wandered into her neighbor-
hood, away from her nest of precious young.
Many a time, as a boy on the farm, I have
followed one of these birds limping and
tumbling and ﬂuttering along on the ground
a few feet ahead of me, utterly disabled, as I
supposed, but always just managing to keep
just a little beyond the reach of my eager
hands. And when the artful mother has led
me far from the sacred spot where lay all
there were in this world to her, how tri-
umphantly she has lifted herself on her un-
harmed wings and, to my utter astonishment,
sailed away.

If by some accident one ﬁnds her nest
(and the nest is so cleverly concealed that
if it is discovered at all it will be by pure

The bird builds her nest, weaving it of the
rarest ﬁbres. She hides it in the copse or
prudently hangs it far out on some inacces-
sible bough. She lays her beautiful eggs,
and hatches them with the warmth and
life of her own breast. She' tends her young,
bringing them food and drink, and watching
over them with a tender and tireless vigi-
lance. She protects them in storm with her
own little body, worries about them when
danger lurks, and dreams of them, no doubt,
as she rocks and sleeps under the silent stars.
She sings to them in the overﬂow of her
gladness and hope, and risks her very ex-
istence to shield them from harm.

As the days of summer shorten, and the
cool, long nights warn of approaching
autumn, she leads her children away from
the old place, she and her faithful mate, out
into the wide old world. - And I say there is
love in the heart of that mother as truly as
in the heart of woman, and there are joy
and genuineness and sorrow and ﬁdelity in
that sylvan home more sacred than may
sometimes bloom in the cold mansions 0t
men—The Dawn.

OUR FRIENDS, THE BIRDS

In various parts of the world efforts are
now being made to establish permanent
homes for the wild birds where they will not
only be safe from all danger but also be in-
duced to remain and multiply. Among the
most interesting and extensive methods of
protecting andattracting the birds are those
employed by Baron Berlepsch on his estate
in Seebach in Germany For over twenty
years, this German lover of birds has studied
the habits of his feathered friends in a most
painstaking and scientiﬁc way, and Without
sentimentality. He decided, ﬁrst of all
that birds are absolutely essential to the
prosperity of the human race. Man has in
many cases destroyed nesting conditions——
these conditions must be restored. Herr
Berlepsch began I \ make his park, gardens,
orchard and stir:- ‘ Jeries a paradise for birds.
He found that n--. .1y birds preferred deserted
or uninhabited woodpecker holes in which to
raise their young. He had trees containing
woodpecker holes felled and examined.
After inspecting several hundreds of holes,
he found, to his surprise and interest, that
they were all formed on a uniform plan.
He then had these holes carefully imitated in
nesting boxes. This is merely one instance
of his cautious and deliberate work. He now
has over two thousand nesting boxes of
various kinds hung up on trees on his estate
As a result, when a destructive moth stripped
his neighbors’ trees, his were left green and

accident), the resourceful mother is ready beautiful. It has paid him to befriend th:
with other expedients to outwit you. birds.
(2-3)

W

 




 

 

BIRDS AT AUDUBON’S GRAVE

There is a little scene of rural nature
enacted every evening up on Washington
Heights that probably can not be seen in any
other thickly settled part of New York,
observes an eye-witness. Thousands of
swallows, which make their homes in the
big chimney of a church, gather from every
direction, about sunset, and circle around
over Trinity cemetery, retiring gradually to
their nests. At daybreak they rise from the
chimney in clouds and scatter to all points
of the compass. Residents of the neighbor-
hood regard these ﬂights with affectionate
interest. As I stood near the cemetery the
other evening, watching the gathering hosts
of birds circling against the pale light of the
sky, I noticed a white—haired old man leaning
against a tree and gazing upward. From
north and south, east and west, ﬂocks of the
graceful birds were arriving every moment to
join the swirling multitudes. There are
literally thousands of them, swooping in a
wide circle over the silent graveyard and
ﬁlling the air with plaintive cries. Suddenly
the old man addressed me.

“What a beautiful sight that is,” he said.
“I have watched these ﬂights for years.
During the summer the birds come every
evening about six o’clock and for an hour or
more ﬂy in that swift circle overhead before
seeking rest.” -

“Why have they chosen this spot?” I
asked.

“It has been their haunt for many years,”
said the old man. ”I like to think it is be-
cause their friend sleeps yonder. Can you
see that monument?”

He pointed with his stick through the
massive iron fence that surrounds the ceme-
tery. Through the gathering dusk I could

make out a great white cross, on a high ,

pedestal, glimmering in the twilight.

“That is in memory of Audubon,” said
the old man. “On one side of that cross are
the sculptured forms of many birds and just
a block away is the old mansion where the
great naturalist lived

“Every evening in summer the swallows
Wing their swift way from New Jersey, from
Westchester and Long Island, and swing in
that strange circle over the tomb of the
naturalist and within sight of the place where
he lived and worked. It seems as though it
were a ceremony before a shrine.”

Make friends with the birds. The country
at large suffers by the loss of them. Feed
and care for them as you would for the pets
of your own household. Encourage them
to stay in your company. They are friendly
and useful folks, and for kind treatment
will repay handsomely in work and song.

THE RED BREAST OF THE ROBIN
An Irish Legend

Of all the merry little birds that live upon the
tree,
And carol from the sycamore and chestnut,
The prettiest little gentleman that dearest is
to me
Is the one in coat of brown, and scarlet
waistcoat.
It’s cockit little robin!
And his head he keeps a—bobbin’.
Of all the other pretty fowls I’d choose him;
For he sings so sweetly still,
Through his tiny slender bill,
With a little patch of red upon his bosom.

When the frost is in the air, and the snow
upon the ground,
To other little birdies so bewilderin’,
Picking up the crumbs near the window he is
found,
Singing Christmas stories to the children:
Of how two tender babes
Were left in woodland glades
By a cruel man who took ’em there to lose
’em;
But Bobby saw the crime,
(He was watching all the time!)
And he blushed a perfect crimson on his
bosom.

“7 hen the changing leaves of autumn around
us thickly fall, '
And everything seems sorrowful and sad
dening,
Robin may be heard on the corner of a wall
Singing what is solacing and gladdening.
And sure, from what I’ve heard,
He’s God’s own little bird,
And sings to those in grief just to amuse ’em;
But once he sat forlorn
On a cruel Crown of Thorn,
And the blood it stained his pretty little
bosom.
~Chambers’5 Edinburgh journal.

Wherever a robin breeds within the con-
ﬁnes of civilization, man is its friend, and a
mutual attachment has grown up that bor-
ders on sentiment. The man extends his
protection and the bird rewards by making
his home almost under the same roof tree,
displaying a conﬁdence in his human brother
that is begotten by lack of fear.

WM. DUTCHER.

“I will not hurt orekill any living creature
needlessly, nor destroy any beautiful thing,

but will strive to savg, and comfort all gentle
life and guard and protect all natural beauty

on earth.”

(2-4)

 




