The Hope of the World

 

Yr
f .

i

’9‘

Peace and Goodwill to All

“It is the HOpe of the world to establish Goodwill between
Nations. The future of a League of Nations can be guaranteed
only by a League of Human Hearts and Minds, bound together
by the Golden Chain of Justice, Friendship and Compassion for
all creatures.” I

—-J. R. NICHOLS (Congress of Teachers and Parents).

WARFARE, CRUELTY AND FAMINE
OR
MORAL CONTROL—PEACE AND
GOODWILL

Sir James Jeans, in his Presidential Address to the British
Association, said: '

“ War might occur, but the fault would not be due to
Science, but to the moral failure of Man while gaining
control over Nature, to Control Himself.”

POISON GAS USED ON ANIMALS AND HUMAN BEINGS

The Humane Education Society asks for your earnest con-
sideration of the following important matter.

At the Chemical Warfare Experimental Station, experiments
are being carried out on thousands of animals; horses, monkeys,
sheep, cats, and many other sensitive creatures are amongst
the victims of this most cruel research work.

At the Physiological Laboratories, large numbers of living
animals are experimented upon in ways that are a violation of
moral and religious principles.

 

 




 

WHY IS THIS BEING DONE?

Because Fear has entered the minds of many people, includ-
ing rulers of The Nations, causing them to spend time, energy,
money and life, in preparation for another War. They believe
this to be inevitable and that Nations should be prepared for
attacks. Moral and Religious Control are lacking.

BROKEN PLEDGES AND TREATIES

The British Government and 27 other States, including all
the Big Powers, are bound by the Hague Convention forbidding
Poison Gas in Warfare. This Convention was broken in the
last War, but not abrogated.

In the Treaty of Versailles, Article 171, it is recognised
that “the use of asphyxiating, poisonous, or other gases, and
all analogous liquids, materials, or devices ” is prohibited.

The use of noxious gases in Warfare was prohibited in the
Washington Treaty in 1922. This Treaty was accepted by the
British Government, the Dominions, India, U.S.A., France, Italy,
and Japan.

We are therefore absolutely pledged against the use of
Poison Gas in Warfare.

MEN AND WOMEN OF OUR NATION AND
OTHERS OUGHT TO REALISE THE SANC-
TITY OF THEIR PLEDGES AND AGREE-
MENTS. WE MUST KEEP OUR SOLEMN
PROMISES FOR THE WELFARE AND PRO-
TECTION OF HUMANITY

Many Statesmen and Legislators have failed to do this.

THE COST OF POISON GAS EXPERIMENTS
IN ENGLAND

Two Research Stations have cost the taxpayers of this Nation
£1,250,000 since the War. Under a Special Vote, an average
of £134,000 has been allotted for several years.

The Sutton Oak Research Factory sends quantities of
manufactured poison gas to Porton, Salisbury, to test on living
creatures their suitability for the neXt War.

BRITISH PAYMENTS TO THE LEAGUE OF NATIONS

Our Annual Contribution to the League of Nations is
approximately £120,000. The public bill for Chemical Warfare
Research increased from £54,000 in 1921 to £148,000 in 1926,
and is still mounting up.




THE COST OF WAR IN HUMAN LIFE AND SUFFERING

The loss of life in the Great War, 1914-18, is given in a.
publication of The League of Nations Union as follows:

British Empire, 1,098,919 men. Other Nations, 9,775,658.
Total, 10,873,577. To this must be added 20,000,000 wounded;
9,000,000 war orphans; 5,000,000 war widows; 10,000,000
refugees. These ﬁgures do not include the indirect losses from
famine and pestilence.

The mental, nervous and physical suffering of human beings,
and of horses, dogs and other creatures, victims =of warfare,
cannot, of course, be computed.

LIVING VICTIMS

It is difﬁcult to accurately determine the number of animals
used during the war period; according to the Chemical Warfare
Research Committee’s report in 1918 (No. 13, p. 6), one single
investigation involved the subjection of 279 dogs and 96 goats
to the action of chlorine, chloropicrin and phosgene gases.
Statistics for other countries are impossible to ascertain, and
it is safe to say that the world total will never be known.

It seems hardly necessary to add that the animals which are
killed by the experiments are fortunate compared with those
which survive and thus become material for further series of
observations. (See Report No. 14 of the Chemical Warfare
Medical Committee.)

HORSES

A Cabinet Minister, in the course of his report, stated
that “the horses used were all unﬁt for further service before
they were taken to be used on these experiments.”

What an end for the friend of man! After a lifetime of toil,
to die a lingering, agonizing death in the poison chamber, or
tethered in the midst of gas-steeped area of soil!

 

MONKEYS

“Picture a small monkey cowering in a corner of the glass
death house in a state of pitiful terror, akin to a human being,
as it breathes the ﬁrst burning fumes of gas that burns and
chokes. The experts watch the animal critically through
observation windows, noting each detail of the little creature’s
death agonies.” Ask yourself if such things are worth while,
should these be tolerated by any decent people?

SOLDIERS OBJECT

Professor J. B. S. Haldane, Britain’s poison gas expert, com-
plained, in his book, “ Callinicus,” that during the war,
physiologists who worked at Porton, had considerable diﬂiculty

 




  

    

in working with a good many soldiers, who objected to the
‘ inﬂiction of suffering in the experiments on the animals, and
who “ did not conceal their contempt for peeple who performed
them.”

THE COST OF WAR IN MONEY AND TAXES

According to authoritative statements (including one made
by Mr. Snowden, when Chancellor of the Exchequer), the sum
spent by the British Government and our Colonies was
£10,054,000,000. Approximately three-quarters of our taxes are
appropriated for war purposes, direct or indirect.

A well-known scholar has truly stated that:

“ It is useless to hope that warfare, which is but one of many

 

savage survivals, can be abolished until the mind of man is

 

humaniSed in other respects also . . . Let those who have been

 

horrified by the spectacle of an atrocious war, resolve to sup-

 

port the Peace Movement more than ever; but let them also

 

support the still wider and deeper humanitarian movement of

 

which Pacifism is but a part, inasmuch as all Humane Causes,

 

though seemingly separate, are ultimately and essentially one.”

 

(We acknowledge with many thanks, information from
various Government Departments, League of Nations Union,
Society of Friends, “Progress To-day,” “John Bull,” and
others.)

HUMANE EDUCATION WILL END CRUELTY
WARFARE AND IGNORANCE

A great thinker has well deﬁned Education as—

“ The unfolding and development of our individuality, to the
best of purposes, in all directions.” This is the principle upon
which we work—emphasising the connection between Humane
Education, Good Citizenship, Peace and Goodwill, allied to
Moral and Spiritual Inﬂuence.

Compiled by
ARTHUR MIDDLETON, Secretary and Lecturer

THE HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY
80 MOSLEY STREET - - - - MANCHESTERz

Published by The Humane Education Society, 80 Mosley Street, Manchester 2
Printed by The William Morris Press Ltd., 41 Gartsidc Street, Manchester 3

 




