LCJ.
GAME
RESEARCHES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ADVISORY LEAFLET
No. l4

WINTERFEEDING
AND WATERING

August 1937

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 




 

 

 

 

I.C.I.
GAME
RESEARCHES

THIS is one of the series of informative and advisory
leaﬂets issued by the I.C.I. Game Research Estate, Kneb—
worth.

Gritting, dusting, winter feeding and watering were
originally dealt with in Leaﬂet No. 3. The latest edition of
that leaﬂet (July 1937) now more fully covers the two former
subjects only, winter feeding and watering being here dis-
cussed separately, also in greater detail.

I . C .I . Game Research Estate
N 07th Lodge

Knebworth Park

H erts

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

WINTER FEEDING
AND WATERING

Winter Food

THERE isa well-established belief that new clover and
grass leys provide an ideal natural food for partridges in
the winter months, a belief probably due to the fact that birds
are usually to be found on these leys in winter and early
spring.

There are two reasons why partridges should choose these
foods:

(I) They may prefer them to anything else; or
(2) There may be little or nothing else for them to eat.

Examination of the crop contents of many hundreds of wild
partridges, supported by feeding experiments with both wild
and captive birds, has convinced us that the second is the
correct reason. Partridges eat a lot of fresh green food at all
times of the year, but there is no doubt that they prefer to
make up at least half of their total ration with seeds and
grain. A mixed diet of seeds and" green food is, moreover,
certainly more nutritious for them than green food alone.
But modern farming, with its early-ploughed stubbles,
leaves very little natural seed food available to partridges by
mid-December or early January, especially in a “green”
winter, when the grass and clover on old stubbles rapidly
smother the remains of seed-bearing plants such as knot-
grass.

An instance of partridges feeding on what they can get,
rather than on what they prefer, occurs on ground—for
example, in Norfolk——where sugar-beet is now being grown
over large areas. We ﬁnd that on such land partridges are
feeding largely on the cut-off crowns of the beet, which are
often left on unploughed ﬁelds until late in January or
February. Incidentally, this beet is a more nutritious form

3

 

 




 

of food than the usual winter greenstuff, and its use by
partridges should be encouraged.

Winter conditions for partridges are probably more
difﬁcult today than at any period in the history of shooting.
The birds simply cannot get what they need and what they
would prefer, and the importance of providing extra food at
the right time cannot, therefore, be too highly emphasised.
On many estates, it is true, winter feeding is practised and on
some has been carried out for generations. Although the
birds have undoubtedly been helped thereby, our enquiries
lead us to believe that winter feeding is seldom practised in
such a way as to confer the maximum possible beneﬁt upon
the stock.

An important point to be remembered in connection with
diverting partridges during the winter from green to seed
foods is that many of the parasitic worms (such as strongyle
worms) that cause so much disease among partridges are
picked up with clover and grass.* The less greenstuff they
eat the fewer worms they are likely to collect.

There is no doubt, therefore, that winter feeding with
grain and seeds is one of the most beneﬁcial measures that
can be taken both to keep large stocks of partridges on the
ground and to keep them healthily. How should it be done?

Regular Feeding

In the winter feeding of partridges there are three
important rules:

(a) To feed regularly, all through the winter and in all
weathers.

(b) To use the right kind of food.

(6) To put the food where partridges can make the best
use of it.

Of these rules the ﬁrst is perhaps the most important, for
it is only regular feeding, in the same places, that accustoms

="‘See “Partridge Disease and its Causes,” Country sze, 1932.
4.




 

 

 

the birds to ﬁnding and using the food provided. After a
month of regular feeding of this kind, one can be sure that
every day the same coveys will come to the spots where they
know they can get what they want. This happens season
after season at Knebworth. It is true that pigeons, small
birds, rooks, etc., will also get to know the feeding spots and
will take some share of what they ﬁnd there. But every
keeper who has fed partridges regularly‘vVill know that they

‘ are much quicker learners than their rivals; and if a daily

feed is put down at about the same hour in the same place he
will ﬁnd the coveys, and“ not the other birds, impatiently
awaiting his arrival as he goes his rounds. It is therefore a

'good plan, when possible, to choose the locations of the

feeding spots in such a way that they can all be visited in the
course of a round, and to make this feeding round every day
at about the same time. A good time of day is about three
hours before sunset, so that what is put down can be utilised
as the chief meal of the day.

We attach great importance to starting feeding early in the
winter and continuing it until well after the partridges have
paired. If this is done, not only will the birds be started off
for the winter, and kept through the winter, in good condition
that will help them to resist disease, but the stock will thereby
be encouraged to stay on the ground at times when they
might otherwise be likely to move away. Winter feeding
should be started at any rate during November—before
November if local conditions make it advisable—~and should
be continued without a break, good weather or bad, until the
end of March at least, and preferably until the end of April.
A start early enough in the winter ensures the coveys getting
to know of the feed before they break up. Paired birds that
might otherwise seek nesting places elsewhere are thus
encouraged to remain.

The Right Food to use

We make no claim to have evolved the perfect winter food
for partridges. Experimental feeding of wild birds, and tests

5

 




 

on penned partridges, have however shown us that the
following mixture is a highly suitable one, not only from the
point of view of food value but because the birds seem to
prefer the seeds here named out of a considerable variety
that has been offered them.

Wheat. . . . . . 35 parts

Hemp . . . . . . 25 ,,

Split maize . . . . 20 ,, ‘
Dari . . . . . . Io ,,

Millet . . . . . . IO

This is the mixture that at present we recommend for winter
feeding.

There are, of course, winter feeding mixtures sold by
game-food manufacturers that can also be used with con—
ﬁdence; and there are many wild-growing seeds which are
good for partridges and are readily taken by them. Grass-
seeds for instance, such as rye-grass and cocksfoot, are most
useful. But the nutritive value of such seeds is usually lower
than that of wheat, hemp, etc., and accordingly we have not
included them in the suggested mixture. Moreover, they are
rather expensive. Soya beans, whole or split, would be an
excellent food for any game bird, but we ﬁnd that partridges
are not to be persuaded to take soya beans so long as any
other food is obtainable. We have noticed that the seeds that
partridges will eat in quantity are not necessarily those that
are the best for them from a nutritional point of view; con-
versely, extremely nutritious foods that are unfamiliar to
them will often be refused. The mixture to be offered,
therefore, must be one composed of seeds of good food value
which partridges will actually “go for.” If nothing better
can be provided, tail wheat alone will meet the case as a
quite good and cheap form of grain food that commends
itself to partridges. -

On many shootings there are, fortunately, patches or even
large areas which the farmer leaves as not worth cultivating.
In such places grasses and weeds that are helpful to partridges

6

GM




a»

will usually be found, and a few varieties that we know to be

favourites are here mentioned for reference:

SUMMER FOOD: Mouse—ear Chickweed (Cerastium vulga-
tum), Buttercup (Ranunculus), Italian rye—grass (Lolium
italicum), Chickweed (Stellaria media), Clover, Buttercup

ﬂowers (Ranunculus), Hawk-bit ﬂowers (Leontoden hispi—
dus).

AUTUMN FOOD: Knotgrass (Polygonum aviculare), Buck-
wheat, Black bindweed (Polygonum convolvulus), Wild
pansy (Viola tricolor), Wheat, Barley, Fescue grass (F estuca
pratensis), Grass and Clover.

WINTER FOOD: Knawel (Soleranthus annus), Knotgrass,
Meadow grass (Poa annua), Sprouting wheat, Sugar-beet,
Grass and Clover.

POPULAR SEEDS: Knotgrass, Black bindweed, Mouse-ear
Chickweed, Chickweed, Scarlet pimpernel, Wild pansy,
Italian rye-grass, Buttercup and Meadowgrass.

Cod-liver Oil and Olive Oil

In the original editions of Leaﬂet No. 3 the use of olive oil
was recommended, “to help keep the birds warm and make
their jackets waterproof.” We believe more than ever that a
few shillings spent on this addition to the feeding ration is
indeed well spent. Latterly we have used cod-liver oil as
well at Knebworth. Though not a vegetable oil, and not
possessing the same tonic properties for feathering as olive
oil, it is an extremely beneﬁcial substance, containing the
important A and D vitamins. Given to partridges in winter
it greatly increases their stamina and resistance to disease.
We believe, therefore, that both olive and cod—liver oils
should be used in the winter seed mixture, and used not too
sparingly, especially in damp and cold weather. Such use
will bring in a handsome return. About three tablespoonfuls
of the combined oil mixture to half a bucketful of seed
should be adequate.

 




 

 

Cod-liver oil should always be mixed freshly with the seed
before each feeding round. If it is mixed beforehand and
the grain stored, the oil will lose most of its valuable pro-
perties unless storage is under light—proof and air-proof
conditions. A great improvement on cod-liver oil plus olive
oil is olive oil prepared so as to contain certain vitamins, and
it is hoped that a preparation of this nature may be on the
market before long.

How Much?

The amount of food to be given must depend upon the
keeper’s judgment, as it will vary with local and weather
conditions, and with the season of the year. The most that
is ever likely to be eaten is I oz. per bird per day. The daily
ration at a feeding spot where the keeper knows a large covey
to be a regular visitor need not, therefore, exceed I 1b., and
a good deal less will probably serve early in the winter.

Where to Feed

It is useless to attempt to give more than quite general
advice regarding the best distribution of winter food. This
must depend upon local farming conditions and the lie of
the land, as also upon the amount of freedom that the keeper
has for his beat. Suitable places, to be found on most shoots,
include a narrow belt of trees with open undergrowth, a
chalk or gravel pit or anything in the nature of a dell hole,
the uncultivated corner of a ﬁeld, a wide dry open ditch with
a grass margin, a clump of trees in an open ﬁeld or park, the
south side of any good hedge that has a grass fringe, the
corner of a covert, adjoining arable land, that has recently
been cleared, or the “bare” ground usually found near un-
disturbed hay or corn stacks in open ﬁelds.

The best way to establish permanent feeding stations at
such points is to spread out a sackful of threshing refuse or
winnowings and throw the daily feed upon it. This method
will protect the feed to some extent from discovery by other
birds. Another good method, especially useful on downland

8

o

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

or in a park, is to tie some sheaves of corn to hurdles and set
up two hurdles in the form of an inverted V (like a bell-tent).
The proper winter feed can be scattered near these hurdles
later in the season, when the birds have acquired the habit
of using that feeding place but have exhausted the grain.
Partridges like pecking corn from the ear, and the hurdles
make a rough shelter.

Every covey should be able to reach a feeding spot within
its normal travelling range. This means having feeding
points about a quarter of a mile apart all over the shoot, so
that no partridge need at any time be further than 300 yards
from a feeding spot. This is, perhaps, rather a counsel of
perfection, and in practice the feeding sites will often have
to be further apart than this. In open country with large
ﬁelds and on downland this will not matter, but the gaps
should not become too wide on well-hedged land.

Provided that the feed is uniformly and closely distributed
over the shoot as suggested, there will probably be no need
to alter the arrangement when pairing time comes, as most
of the pairs will, as members of a covey, have made habit of
feeding at certain ﬁxed places and will continue to do so
after mating, visiting their particular feeding spot from the
territory where they have established themselves. Some-
times, however, the keeper will ﬁnd it advisable to create
small feeding spots in new places early in March, for the
beneﬁt of pairs that will not make the trip to their customary
dining-table. The position of these extra feeding places can,
again, obviously be chosen only by the keeper, after careful
observation of the new localities where the pairs concerned
are in the habit of feeding.

Feeding during Nesting

Many keepers hold that by the time a bird has nested
there will normally be ample natural food on the ground and
that artiﬁcial feeding then becomes merely a waste of time
and money. We believe this to be a mistaken point of view.
The cock bird, perhaps, may not by then be in need of

9

 




 

further help. But the hen is about to face a period that will
make a heavy drain upon her Vitality, and she cannot, like
the cock, feed throughout the day—her time away from the
nest is limited. We believe that feeding the nesting hen is a
highly useful practice, far too seldom performed. If the hen
has a supply of food nearby she can on any day go back to
her eggs exactly when she wants to and without going back
hungry. Food should not, of course, be put down actually
beside the nest, but somewhere not far off, where her mate

will ﬁnd it.

Feeding v. Disease

We have always recognised that anything in the nature of
“treatment” of wild birds suffering from disease must, in
practice, present very great difﬁculties, and that the problem
is therefore one to be dealt with by prevention. All modern
research indicates that correct nutrition is one of the most
important factors in health, not only in preventing the onset
of many diseases but in reducing mortality when infection
has occurred. We have little doubt that—quite apart from
epidemics of disease such as “partridge disease” (strongy-
losis)—much of the winter mortality among partridges that
now occurs (see Advisory Leaﬂet No. 13) is a result of mal-
nutrition, and could be counteracted and avoided by correct
feeding at critical times. Feeding on the lines indicated in
this leaﬂet will, we are conﬁdent, so increase the stamina of
the birds as to beneﬁt them and their progeny materially.

It is with these thoughts in mind that we have, as already
announced, recently embarked upon fresh lines of experi-
mental work and ﬁeld studies. In simple language, we are
trying to discover what effect nutrition has upon disease in
game birds, in the hope that eventually it may be possible,
by adding certain substances to the food that partridges take
in winter, to control the susceptibility of the birds to attack
sufﬁciently to prevent illnesses and diseases occurring as they
now do.

IO




Partridges and Water

We have heard it questioned whether partridges in the
Wild state ever actually drink—that is, “drink” in the manner
of other birds such as fowls. It may be that they do not
habitually take water in this way, but we can say for certain
that they sometimes do. On many occasions at the observa-
tional feeding stations at Knebworth we have seen Wild
partridges sipping water from the trays, the birds being
sometimes less than 5 yards from the hides.

It is probable that sufﬁcient moisture is usually obtained
in the form of fresh green vegetation and early morning
dews. Nevertheless, it will be found that if water is made
available to partridges during a hot day they will come to
drink readily enough. That partridges need water in some
form cannot be doubted, and to provide them with it on
occasions when they might otherwise have difﬁculty in
getting it seems a reasonable step to take. The fact that they
can sometimes do without water does not mean that they
are better without it.

Dewpan Drinking Trays

Water can easily enough, and at quite negligible cost, be
made available by means of drinking trays placed in such
positions as under hedges, at the bottoms of double hedges,
or in dell-holes. It is only necessary to cut a 12 ft. sheet of
galvanised iron into four sections, hammer each piece into
the shape of a tray about 1-;— in. deep, and sink the tray level
with the ground. It may be that the trays will not be
extensively used, especially after wet or dewy nights when
the birds can get water in the form of drops on leaves and
herbage. But even in the hottest weather moisture will
condense in these dewpans. The trays may often be dry at
noon, water condensed during the night having evaporated
during the day: but they will have served their purpose by
providing for the coveys in the early morning—the time at
which they look for it—a drink that might not otherwise be
easily found.

II

 




 

We are experimenting with other types of drinking trays
that should prove better dew condensers, and therefore a
more permanent source of water for game birds.

Food and Water, Grit and Dust

In Leaﬂet No. 3 (July 1937 edition) we call attention to
the desirability of providing feeding, watering, gritting and
dusting facilities at localised “stations.” A covey that then
comes, say, to dust will ﬁnd close by a meal to eat, grit with
which to chew it, and water to wash it down.

434/43/837 Printed in England at The Kynoch Press, Birmingham

073

 

 




 

 




 




