'E'ndtpr 5 05) Ni ‘1 1 A . ) .5 '\ 5" '3 «.13

from the hmbass yat Lender: Ling .‘ulu.
A Message to every child-—

from every Animal

ANIMALS’ WELFARE WEEK is OUR WEEK
when everybody everywhere is asked to think
what every animal needs and because children can
be the best friends of animals, We want very speci—
ally to ask YOU to think of us this week What
we need 18 very much what YOU _need:——-

Food and Drink .
Warmth and Shelter
Freedom to Run About and Play
Friendship and Sympathy
Often we don’t get these things,
We Who are WILD ANIMALS—bears and

tigers, lions and monkeys, kangaroo-s and giraffes—
are often caught by men and taken away from
our homes in the jungles and forests and plains. to
' be imprisoned in Zoos and Menageries and made
to perform stupid tricks at cirouses and for the films. YOU don’t
hurt and catch us but sometimes you go to the Circus and laugh at us,
and visit the Zoo and think it is interesting to see us in prison And
often YOU believe the stories grown— ups tell you about our being terribly
savage and always ready to kill and eat Man, .- 4.
when really and truly we have no desire to hurt
him so long as he doesn’t try to interfere with
us, and if we can be sure he has no gun or net
or trap. But it is difﬁcult for us ito be sure of
this, because we have been hurtso'often. We
like National Parks and Reserves where we are
not molested.
Some of us who are WILD ANIMALS are
small soft timid thingsmhares and rabbits and
squirrels, moles and beavers and ﬁeld mice.
Often we are trapped and shot and hunted
because humans want our bodies to eat or our
coats to wear or because they' like the fun of
chasing us So we grow more and more afraid '
[and hide away from men and from children too, for sometimes even-
YOU throw sticks and stones at us.
So what EVERY WILD ANIMAL asks EVERY CHILD is:—
Please let us be free and happy and ,
live our own lives 1n thewoods and

ﬁelds and forests where we were

,[P,.T.®.

 




~ Those of us who are,DOMESTIC
ANIMALS and share your home—-
dOgs and cats‘ and tam-e rabbits and
guinea pigS—often love you very
much. But” sometimes YOU
frighten us by handling our soft
bodies roughly, and sometimes we
get ill and you don’t ask anyone to
come and cure us, and. sometimes 7 With acknowledgement to
“you kCCp L18 ShUt UP 1200 long and ' H. M. Brock and Messrs. Putnam’s
we get fat and flabby and dreadfully bored because we have no exercise
Some of us, too, know what it is to be left out in the streets and to be
lost and hungry, and to meet no one who tries to help us when We cry
to them.
So what we DOMESTIC ANIMALS ask you specially 18 that you
will be oar friends and learn to understand just what we need and
never forget that we. are dependent on you for our health and happiness.

If noone ever hurt an’Animal or frightened it, then NO ANIMAL
would be afraid of any human being and .we' should all live together in,
peace, and there would be all sorts of lovely friendships between us.

WILL You, EVERY CHILD, think about
these things in this ANIMALS’ WELFARE
SWEEK and decide that whatever grown up
people do, YOU at‘ any rate, will always be A
, the Friend and Protector of

EVERY

ANIMAL

EVERYWHERE.

 

NATIONAL COUNCIL FOR ANIMALS’ WELFARE
32, Queen’ s Avenue, London, N. 10.

 




