j: ULAws MONOGRAPHS, No. 4b.

@6715“le ‘ *

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

'1 SECOND, EDITION, ENTIRéLY REWR’lTT-EN.

PRICE ONE SHILLI-NG.

UNIVERSITY OF LONDON ANIMAL WELFARE SOCIETY,

 




 

 

to remind your
animal-loving
friends that

 

E712 mniberst’ty at 101mm Quinta! warm ibucictp
c/o The University Union, 68, T orrington Sq” W.C‘.‘f
‘ could do more to foster ‘. ~ " ‘

 

 

 

ﬁnhw  ‘<y
more money «+9.; 5
to spend. ’   ”

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 








 

MAN‘ reﬂux RABBIT

BY
A. H. B. KIRKMAN,

F.R.C.S.E., L.R.C.P. Lond., F.Z.S.,

Hon. Secretary for Wild Life, The University of
London Animal Welfare Society.

Second edition, entirely rewritten .

Published by

THE UNIVERSITY OF LONDON ANIMAL WELFARE
SOCIETY,

68, TORRINGTON SQUARE, LONDON, W.C.I.

 

 




 

PRINTED AT THE RYDAL PRESS, KEIGHLEY.

 

 




 

PREFACE TO THE SECOND EDITION.

To those with a knowledge of conditions existing in
but one locality certain statements contained in this mono-
graph may appear untenable or even paradoxical. But
we who have made it our business to investigate ﬁeld con-
ditions in different parts of the British Isles and to inter-
view and correspond with land-owners, farmers, the hunt-
ing fraternity, naturalists, trappers, Chief Constables,
and (last but by no means least) old and experienced
poachers can assure them that the position we have taken
up is based upon a knowledge of the facts, and that no
justiﬁcation exists for the perpetuation of what is, on the
face of it, a devilish method of catching warm-blooded and
highly sensitive animals in a civilized age.

At the suggestion of the late Earl Buxton, our Soc-
iety recently drew up a questionnaire dealing in a searching
manner with the whole problem of trapping in Britain,
and sent it to a large number of persons having special
knowledge of the countryside. The formidable task of
digesting and analysing the replies was undertaken by Mr.
A. E. Knowler, M.Sc., A.Inst.P., and some of the infor-
mation obtained has been incorporated in the present
edition. This has had to be rewritten entirely, however,
for the case against the gin or steel trap has turned out to
be far stronger than was fully realized when the ﬁrst edi—
tion was published.

ULAWS Monograph 4a, The Rabbit Problem in Agricul-
ture, written for our Society by Capt. W. H. Buckley, was
circulated to over 1,000 prominent farmers, and the replies
which some of them were kind enough to send have added to
our knowledge. They deﬁnitely give one the impression
that enlightened and progressive agriculturists are on our
side.

In view of reprisals which trappers are sometimes
able to inﬂict on those who oppose them, most of the corres-
pondents quoted herein are referred to by number. In

iii .

 




 

 

 

 

token of good faith we are prepared to notify their names
and addresses to any Government Department that may be
willing to receive the information, or to take any other step
that will not compromise them.

Plates V. and VIII. show genuine photographs of live
animals in traps. Plates VI., VII. and IX. show animals
which have been replaced in the traps after being killed,
but the mutilation shown was genuinely caused by the
trap.

My thanks are due to Mr. A. E. Knowler for his valu-
able work already referred to, to Capt. C. W. Hume for
assistance in collecting data and preparing the monograph
for the press, to the many correspondents who have contri-
buted information or photographs or have loaned blocks,
to Mr. H. W. Heath, B.Sc., for making the drawing and
map reproduced on pages 2 and I8, and to our honorary
artist Fougasse for the drawings on the cover and on pages
II, 19, 22, 24, and 40.

A. H. B. KIRKMAN.

November 5th, 1934.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

CONTENTS.

SECTION . PAGE

1. Rabbits, traps and trappers.
The ways of the rabbit. The gin or steel trap.
Commercial trapping. Rabbiting by farm hands.
Poachers. Snares ....................

2. Why the gin must be abolished.
Cruelty to animals and birds. Bad educational
effect. Damage to domestic animals. Impover-
ishment of fauna. Rabbit-plagues caused by the
steel-trappers ..........

3 . Why there is opposition to the abolition of the gin.
Effect on trap-manufacturers, professional trappers
and rabbit-harbourers. Rabbits as food. Per—
sistence of local custom. The fallacy of the
substitute for the steel trap

4. Is the rabbit stock, game or vermin?
Conﬂict of Views between high farmers and low
farmers. Rabbit —plagues in the western countries.
Preservation of rabbits 15

5. The gin as a cause of rabbit plagues.
Correlation between abundance of rabbits and Use
of the gin . Evidence from South Wales, Cornwall
and Devonshire. Reasons why the gin is associated
with abundance of rabbits .................... 19

6. Recommended methods of dealing with rabbits.
Long nets. Ferrets. Bolting fuze. Shooting.
Warrens. Digging out. The knotted snare.
Quick—killing snares. Motor-car exhaust.
Cyanogas. Young rabbits. Acetylene. Animoil
and renardine. Gate nets. Gate traps. Wire
netting .......... 26

7. Some recommended methods of dealing with
vermin.
What are vermin? Stoats and weasels. Foxes.
Domestic cats and dogs. Jays and magpies.
Jackdaws and crows. Rats. Musk rats. Moles.
Break—back, box and tunnel traps ............... 35

8. Legislation.
The law in Denmark. The Ground Game Act,
1880. The Protection of Animals Act, 1911.
The Wild Birds Protection Act, 1904. The
Rabbits Bill. Access to private land. The Spring
Guns Act, 1827. The Gin Traps (Prohibition)
Bill, promoted by the University of London
Animal Welfare Society ............... 38

V.

 




 

 

 

PWWPS‘P"?

“r“?‘m

 

APPENDICES .

Experiences in South Wales ....................

Experiences in Cornwall ...............

Experiences in Devonshire ....................

Experiences in various counties ...............
Experiences in Australia ....................
The sex ratio of captured rabbits ...............

Opinions of the Chief Constables of the trapping
counties and of certain other persons ..........

The ULAWS questionnaire ...............
Instructions for using the long net ...............

Instructions for exterminating rabbits and rats with
motor-car exhaust gas ............... a .....

vi.

66
69
7O

74

 

 

 




 

 

MAN, versus RABBIT

§ I. RABBITS, TRAPS AND TRAPPERS.

‘ ‘lln order to be successful, a trapper must know the wild animals as
a. mother knows her child.’ ’
E. KREPs, The Science of Trapping.

Wild rabbits are ubiquitous in the British Isles and
exist under all conditions of terrain, be it woodland, moor-
land, ﬂat or hilly country, the banks of rivers or railways,
clayey, rocky or sandy soil. Although, generally speak-
ing, localities of convenience attract them, in other cases
they become attached for no apparent reason to some
hedgerow or ﬁeld from which they are difﬁcult to dislodge .
Although most of them make their homes in warrens or
holes, a great number of wood and moor—frequenting rabbits
never enter a hole except for breeding purposes. Usually
‘ the female rabbit retires to a small hole away from the
community, in the middle of a ﬁeld or open moor, to
deposit her young; this hole she scratches for herself for the
particular occasion, and when she leaves her young she
carefully covers it in with earth and grass to make it level
with the surrounding ground.

When we consider the question of rabbit—capture the
ﬁrst point that we have to realize is that throughout the
country rabbits fall into the very different categories of
stock, game and vermin. In the same district one farmer
or land—owner wishes to preserve, his next-door neighbour
wishes to persecute or even exterminate. I shall return to
this subject in § 4.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

2 M an versus Rabbit

At this point I should like to call attention to certain
habits of these rodents. Rabbits wander away from their
homes towards evening and during the ﬁrst few hours of
darkness, often going very far aﬁeld for the purpose of
grazing or to meet and play with members of other com-
munities. As a result the majority are caught in traps set
near their homes during the ﬁrst two or three hours follow-
ing sundown. They return, roughly speaking, during the
three hours preceding sunrise. From practical experience
we ﬁnd that some 60 per cent. are caught in the former
period. When, as frequently happens, traps are not visited
till morning, this large proportion of rabbits remains suffer-
ing throughout the night. Much suffering could be pre-
vented if an evening visit were made three hours after
sunset.

It is a mistake to suppose that rabbit-catching in the
British Isles is universally carried on by means of the gin
or steel trap. The use of the gin was greatly extended
during the war, When rabbits for human consumption
. fetched a big price, but in some regions rabbits are caught
almost entirely by other means. Of the replies to question
7 of our questionnaire, half indicated that the gin was in
general use for rabbits and half indicated the reverse.

 

 

The gin or steel trap.

The gin or steel trap is set sometimes in the mouths of
' holes and sometimes in the rabbit—runs in the open. The

' quarry is most often caught by one or both fore feet or legs.
In its violent struggles to escape the bones generally frac-
ture and the soft tissues become torn and badly lacerated.
To such an extent does the animal struggle that ofttimes it
cOmpletely tears off the end of the limb and escapes, minus
a foot. This occurs most often in the case of cats, foxes,




Rabbits, traps and trappers 3

dogs and pheasants. Professional trappers, with all their

faults, do on the whole visit their traps more regularly than

casual trappers, but as they may have several hundreds of
traps out at a time prompt inspection is not feasible; and
at the end of the season, when rabbits have been thinned
out, the traps may be left set for days. - Casual trappers
not infrequently leave rabbits, cats and dogs to die in the
traps, death in these cases being slow and due to starvation,
thirst and exhaustion.

In many places in the south-west of England and South
Wales the old—fashioned rabbit-catcher using nets, ferrets
or snares has given place to the commercial steel-
trapper working on contract. The commercial trapper
buys the rabbits on a farm for a lump sum and proceeds to
catch as many as it pays him to catch: and it is on these
lines that the rabbit industry is conducted in the areas
mentioned above. Replies to questions 12, I3 and I4 of
our questionnaire indicated that in most parts of the country
it is more usual to hire a man or to do one’s own trapping,
but the contract system prevails in those counties where
the rabbit—plague is worst. It is intimately bound up with
the use of the steel trap, to which it is specially suited.
The trappers usually spend a few days in each locality, and
repeat the operation one or more times during the season.

The policy of selling the trapping rights to commercial
trappers appears to us to be fundamentally wrong. The
rabbiting should be done by farm hands as part of the
ordinary work of the farm. Farmers say that they have
no time for this; but they might as well say that they have
no time for hedging or ploughing or feeding stock. The
work of dealing with rabbits is sufﬁciently important
Where rabbits are numerous; moreover on suitable terms
many labourers would be glad to do it, and being free to
choose favorable nights throughout the winter they could
use humane methods with success, whereas commercial
trappers are usually bound to dates ﬁxed in advance, so
that the gin is best suited to their peculiar needs.

The art of rabbit-catching might well be included in
the curriculum of agricultural colleges.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

4 M an versus Rabbit

Poachers are obliged to use methods which do not
cause squealing; their methods are, therefore, more
humane as a rule than those of the trapper. The long net
is the poacher’s favourite weapon, so much so that it is
sometimes known as the “poacher’s net.” This fact has
unfortunately given rise to a sentimental objection to the
net on the part of game—keepers and land-owners, and partly
accounts for the neglect of the most useful and most humane
method of rabbit—catching.

The snare is a wire with a running noose set in a
rabbit run. When it slowly strangles the rabbit, as it
frequently does, it inﬂicts great cruelty. Much of this can
be avoided by providing a knot to prevent the snare from
tightening round the neck. Moreover it would be im-
possible to prohibit the sale and manufacture of snares, for
rabbiters make their own. For these and other reasons,
although we have no love for the common snare, we think it
desirable to concentrate our attention on the gin.

§ 2. WHY THE GIN MUST BE ABOLISHED.

"Righteousness exalteth a nation, but sin is a reproach to any
people.”

Prov. XL'V, 34.
The gin or steel trap is inconsistent with modern stan.
dards 0f humaneness. The sight of a rabbit or other animal
alive in a gin is such a loathsome one that if it were to be
exhibited in Trafalgar Square the public would probably
refuse to tolerate any longer the use of such a barbarous
instrument. I have described the cruelty of the trap in
the previous section, and we have now to estimate the

number of rabbits trapped in this country every year.
About two years ago a leading wholesale poulterer gave us,
admittedly as a very rough guess based upon his business,
experience, the ﬁgure of 20 million; but by the courtesy of
a leading ﬁrm of trap manufacturers we have been furnished
with an estimate of the number of traps sold annually to

 




 

 

Why the gin must be abolished 5

the home market, and on the basis of this ﬁgure we are
able to estimate that the number of rabbits caught in steel
traps every year is of the order of 36,000,000.*

We can but faintly apprehend the aggregate suffering
of this enormous, number of highly sensitive warm-blooded
vertebrates held by broken and crushed limbs prior to re-
lease by death. These ﬁgures mean that every night dur-
ing the winter months some two hundred thousand of these
unfortunate creatures are suffering hours of merciless tor-
ture. The law prescribes that traps should be Visited once
in the 24 hours, and it is quite common for animals to
remain the full 24 hours or longer, according to the con-
Venience, caprice or humanity of the trapper. While
professional trappers usually visit their traps regularly
during the period of intensive trapping, many of them visit
every few days only towards the end of the season when the
rabbit population is getting thin. In practice the law is
broken very freely.

In counties where trapping is general it is no uncom~
mon occurrence for sympathetic people to be kept awake
for hours at night by the screaming of trapped rabbits.
None but the most callous will deny the barbarity of the
steel trap or gin, and those who have not seen a living
mutilated rabbit in a steel trap and have not heard the
cries of these captured creatures by night, can take it from

me that they will be happier if they are not called upon to
do so.

 

* The ﬁgure of 50 million given in our ﬁrst edition was not reliable,
as it turns out to have depended on a doubtful interpretation of the Board
of Trade ﬁgures. The most reliable estimate that we have received
indicates that about 120,000 traps are sold annually to game-keepers and
240,000 to commercial trappers. Correspondent No. Mz states that he is
now using 2 5o traps and that last season’s catch included 9,240 rabbits,
25 cats and 312 birds. If we assume that game-keepers never catch
rabbits and that all traps wear out instead of rusting out, these two
assumptions, though incorrect, may be set off against one another, and
on the above basis it is easy to calculate the ﬁgure given in the text,
Though far from exact, the estimate must clearly be of the right order of
magnitude. The third year’s catch is above the average of three years,
but if we assume that game-keepers catch no more cats and birds than
commercial trappers do , we shall certainly be putting the ﬁgures for these
creatures too low; we therefore arrive at 124,000 cats and I ,800,ooo birds
as an estimate which is probably too low.

 

 




 

 

 

6 Man versus Rabbit

Why should those inﬂuenced by pecuniary motives be
allowed to outrage the feelings of decent people by per-
petuating this barbarity in our midst? A dog remaining
tethered for 24 hours without a run, and an overloaded
horse, are sufﬁcient objects of pity (and rightly so) to merit
legal interference. Yet the law fails to act in this whole-
sale and most repulsive form of torture inﬂicted on many
millions of wild animals annually.

The educational eﬂect. The steel trap encourages the
mentality of cruelty, more especially in the rising genera-
tion. The sight of struggling mutilated rabbits, which
is general in certain districts, is viewed with complacency
by children from baby age upwards, and becomes such an
every-day matter as hardly to call for comment.

Damage to domestic animals. Not only are cats and
dogs caught and mutiliated by the trap, but even cows and
sheep have been found with traps on their tongues. The
following letter from the Master of the Dartmoor Foxhounds
is typical of many that have been received:

‘ ‘The danger to hounds from steel rabbit traps is
obvious and well known . It is no uncommon thing to see a
hound in a trap set upon by the rest of the pack, and if help
is not to hand the end would not be long. It also sometimes
happens that a hound will struggle home through the night
many miles with a trap on his leg, suffering very greatly
and injured so badly that he has to be destroyed.”
The number of domestic cats trapped every year is of

the order of 100,000; see the footnote on page 5.

I mpoverishment of fauna. The trap kills off many
animals and birds which are useful, interesting, or at worst
harmless. We shall discuss later the destruction of stoats,
owls and other natural enemies of the rabbit and the rat,
and we need not emphasise the heavy toll of game birds

_ which is taken every year by the trap.

Correspondent N 0. M2, whose letter is given in full in
appendix C, has kept a list of animals caught by him dur-
ing the last three years and has kindly given permission for
its publication. He uses 250 traps. The list is as
follows :~——

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Why the gin must be abolished 7
I931-32 I932-33 I933-34

Rabbits .......... 7892 8890 9240
Stoats .......... 3I 19 28
' Cats .......... I 3 IO 25
Hedge-hogs Ig ——- 12
Birds .......... 200 240 312

“also numerous other creatures such as foxes, badgers, dogs,
&c., which I don’t enter on the list. ”

Mr. Douglas St. Leger Gordon, of Okehampton, writes:

“Wild game birds are largely affected. I can person-
ally vouch for pheasants (in great numbers), partridge, red
grouse, golden plover, woodcock, song thrush, robin,
blackbird, buzzard, sparrow-hawk, carrion crow, magpie,
jay, little owl, blue tit , to mention those which I can call to
mind at the moment. I have heard of the curlew. I have
known as many as thirty blue tits caught within a few
Weeks in one small garden . That every four—footed creature
is caught goes without saying, from red deer to ﬁeld mice.’ ’

Correspondent No. M 12, of Cornwall, writes:

“I have known owls, a raven, a buzzard, many
partridges, a corncrake, a mallard, hedge-sparrows, robins
and great numbers of thrushes and blackbirds caught at
various times.’ ’,

The following paragraph appeared in some of the
daily papers on October 6, 1934:

A golden eagle with a steel trap attached to a leg was
found exhausted on Knockfarril, near Strathpeffer Spa,
Ross and Cromarty yesterday. It was found by a man
walking across the hill. He beat it with a stick, but before
he overcame it his hands were lacerated and his clothes
torn. The eagle is an excellent specimen, its wing spread
measuring 7ft.

Rabbit plagues caused by steel-trappers. The old Board
of Agriculture, in a pamphlet* issued at a time when the
production of rabbits was desired on account of the meat-
shortage, gave the following instructions (p. 34):

Traps as an Instrument of Rabbit Paeservatz'on. Contra-
dictory as the idea may appear, traps must be considered

. the best means of maintaining a plentiful stock on
the ground.

 

* Board of Agriculture and Fisheries, Miscellaneous Publications.
No. 22, by R. Sharpe, published in 1918 and now withdrawn.

 




8 Mam versus Rabbit

In § 5 I' shall try to explain the paradoxical fact
that, in spite of its efﬁciency, the gin, far from being nec-
essary for keeping down rabbits, is actually associated
with increase in their numbers. For the present we merely
note that it is par excellence the weapon of the trapper who
works on contract and wishes to make a good bag quickly
while leaving a plentiful breeding-stock, rich in does, for
future seasons.

Commander C. Williams, M.P., writes very truly as
follows :—

“Traps are the easiest way of obtaining some rabbits
but not the best way of keeping them down.

The ﬁrst year ferrets and nets are a bit more expensive
in time and outlay, but if you do a hedge this way you clear
almost all the rabbits: with traps you clear a much smaller
proportion , as after a day or two many move off . Trappers
don’t mind this as it leaves a stock. Bad farmers the same,
as they sell the rabbits each year. This lowers the standard
of all crops——-I think grass in particular—and the cost of a
permanent stock of rabbits is a loss out of all proportion
to any extra loss of time. ’ ’

Conﬁrmation of this view will be found in ULAWS
Monograph No. 4a, by Capt. W. H. Buckley, who writes of
Pembrokeshire, and in various documents given in the
appendices of the present monograph.

It may be suggested that the commercial trapper would
do just as much harm if he used other methods, but there
are two reasons for not accepting this view. The ﬁrst is
that if deprived of his favourite weapon, the commercial
steel-trapper (who makes his largest and easiest proﬁts by
trapping in a way that is harmful to agriculture) would
tend to give place to the old -fashioned hired rabbit—catcher,
who still holds the ﬁeld elsewhere than in the west country.
Question 9 of our questionnaire was as follows: “Is it a
fact that the steel trap is best suited to professional trappers
who have to work on ﬁxed dates, while the long net is best
suited to local men who can wait for the most favourable
conditions?” 75 per cent of the replies were “yes.”
Those land—owners, agricultural colleges and natural
history societies who replied were unanimous, masters of

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Why there is opposition to the abolition of the gin 9

hounds 2 to I, farmers and veterinary surgeons (of whom few
gave a reply) about evenly divided. We may safely con—
clude that the gin is intimately bound up with the system
of commercial trapping which has been so disastrous
for serious agriculture in the west.

Our second answer to the above suggestion is that the
sex ratio Of the rabbits caught is important. The Rodier
system Of extermination, which has been used chieﬂy in
Australia, consists in killing does and releasing the bucks
alive. Whether or not it is true that the gin catches more
bucks than does, it is certain that ferreting and digging—
Out catch more does than bucks. In § 5 we shall show at
length that by abolishing the gin and throwing the com-
munity back on the Older methods we can go far towards
putting an end to the rabbit plagues caused by trappers,
which are such a menace to serious farming.

§3. WHY THERE Is OPPOSITION TO THE
ABOLITION OF THE GIN.

‘ ‘It would take away half their usual earnings. . -
Loyd Stanley defending child—sweating against the Cotton
Factories Bill, Hansen/cl, col. 34.7, April 27, I818.
The history of social reform indicates that when the
community decides to act righteously after tolerating some
evil for a long time, hardship is inevitably inﬂicted, and
even greater hardships are erroneously predicted. When
Britain agreed to put an end to the Opium trafﬁc it was
pointed out that 2, OOO,QOO poppy growers would be thrown
out Of employment in India. Abolition of the slave trade
deprived the slavers of a lucrative employment. The
following remarks Of Mr. Ridley Colborne, * contain an argu-
ment that for some time delayed the passage of the Spring
Guns Act, 1827, which prohibited the setting of spring guns
and man traps for human beings:

“It was much better to employ spring guns than to
resort to the only other alternative which their disuse would

* Hansard, column 31, March 26. 1827.

 

 




 

 

IO M an versus Rabbit

leave for the protection of property, namely, the increase of
that numerous armed force which was at present scattered
over the country for its security. If there was one part of
our existing system of game laws which disgusted him
more than another, it was this extensive force; and the
direct operation of the hon. gentleman’s bill would be to
increase its extent, and to multiply those murderous
conﬂicts which were already too frequent. He could assure
the House that many friends of his, in consequence of the
terribly mutilated and wounded state in which their game-
keepers often returned from some accidental collision with
poachers, had been reluctantly compelled to resort to the
use of these machines.”

Many equally imaginary evils will doubtless be pro-
phesied by opponents of the Gin Traps (Prohibition) Bill,
but it has to be admitted that the small number of ﬁrms
engaged in the manufacture of gins will, if the gin is
abolished, lose this part of their trade. It is estimated
that about I50 or 250 persons are directly employed in
Britain in the manufacture of about 1,200,000 traps, of
which about 70 per cent are for export, in a normal year.
How far the trap—makers can recoup their losses by the
manufacture of various nets, box traps, break—back traps
and similar devices, the writer cannot tell, but changes in
demand are normal occurrences to which every industry
has to adapt itself.

The interests of commercial trappers also would be
affected by the abolition of the gin. The Australian report,
The Rabbit [Menace iii N ew South Wales, states:

The importance of the rabbit trade in promoting
certain methods of destruction is here emphasised. The
Widespread use of the steel “gin” trap is to be traced to
the value of the skins rather than to the particular utility
of these methods as a means of permanent eradication.

The Shooting Times and British Sportsman is the
principal champion of the commercial trapper. In the
issue of October 13, we read:

None of us who have earned a living by trapping desire
to encourage cruelty. We would like to see a really humane
trap invented that would be as light and as efﬁcient as the
present rabbit trap. But until that day comes we hope

 

 




 

 

Why there is opposition to the abolition of the gin II

that any bill to abolish the steel trap will be sent ﬂying,
for it is a direct hit, in our opinion, at the livelihood made
by quite a small army of men. If we are to have our
traps taken away. . . . we may asﬁgwell stay at home and
take in washing . ‘

 

\‘ /
: '1IQIIOQQQ ‘9'!!an

Thus hardship will certainly be inﬂicted on commercial
steel-trappers, but they must be sacriﬁced because they
have done immense harm to serious agriculture by culti-
vating hordes of rabbits, and because, as Mr. Douglas
Gordon, the well-known Devonshire sportsman and
naturalist, wrote in the Countryman, October 1934:

‘ ‘Nobody is entitled to keep animals merely to torture
them. Anyone so keeping domesticated creatures is con-
victed of cruelty, and may be debarred from again having
such animals in his possession. The same principle should
apply with regard to wild creatures that are the legal
property of land—occupiers. The rabbit is destroyed at
certain seasons on account of the havoc that it does among
growing crops , but in the great majority of cases this is only
due to its preservation at other times. Upon Dartmoor
there existed an ancient rule forbidding any commoner to
run more stock upon the hills than he could winter. Upon
the same principle , nobody is justiﬁed in preserving so large
a number of rabbits as to necessitate barbarous methods of
destruction. The right to preserve ground game should
automatically entail the ability to kill them by means that
are reasonably humane. There are thousands of men who
would be prepared to exterminate rabbits upon any farm
without recourse to the steel trap. Gangs of professional
rabbit—catchers have already been formed in certain locali-
ties for this work . As to a humane trap, there should be no
necessity for a trap at all if the whole matter is placed upon
a proper basis. The steel trap is so inhuman in its cruelty
that its abolition is imperative.”

l

 




 

 

 

Iz Mam versus Rabbit

Some trappers would gladly use humane methods if
these were compulsory. At present the competition of the
steel trap, Which yields an easier proﬁt, prevents them
from tendering on favorable terms without its use.

A leading trap-maker has estimated that about 240,000
traps are sold annually in Britain to commercial trappers.
If we assume that each man uses 200 traps and that each
trap lasts 4 years, we shall ﬁnd that there are approxi-
mately 5, 000 commercial trappers in the country.

Against any loss of employment that may be caused in
the above two trades must be set increased employment for
the old -fashioned rabbit-catcher, the ferret—breeder, and the
net—maker. There would also be increased employment
in those agricultural districts where high farming has been
made impossible by the commercial trapper. For instance
‘ ‘if the trap were abolished there would for some years be
work for hundreds of men in building up banks which at
present are not worth putting tip as they would at once he
pulled down by rabbits, ’ ’ * and in Pembrokeshire there are
this year 530 growers of sugar—beet, who are suffering
severely from the trappers.

It is urged also that rabbits are a cheap food, and that
by abolishing the commercial use of the steel trap we should
deprive the poor of it. Whether markets can be fully
supplied with humanely caught rabbits nobody can say
'for nobody knows, but rabbits are cheap because the cost
of feeding them is never brought into account; many of
them steal their food from pastures and crops. The Rabbit
Menace m N ew South WalesT published by the Department
of Agriculture of New South Wales states:

The vastly increased product ion of lands where rabbits
have been eradicated is also dealt with in the full report,
and a number of speciﬁc instances are given. These indi-
cate very clearly how small a thing to the country at large
is any rabbit trade, present or even potential as far as can
be seen, compared to the increased value of the land for
live stock and crop production when the rabbit is absent .

 

*-W. H. Buckley, ULAWS Monograph 4a.
1‘ See Appendix E of this monograph.

 




 

Why there is opposition to the abolition of the gin I3

Mutton is more wholesome than rabbit, being properly
bled; and if we have to choose between them, it is better to
choose mutton .

Convention is largely responsible for the use of the
steel trap. This fact is brought forcibly to one’s notice
when visiting different parts of the country. There are
big areas where the steel trap holds sway as the chief method
of catching rabbits, but there are also quite small tracts of
land, where the terrain is similar in all particulars, and some
use the steel trap, others snares, ferrets, shooting and net-
ting. It would appear that the professional rabbit-catcher
whose profession is perpetuated in the family from father to
son is largely responsible for the local custom. Question
7 of our questionnaire was “Is the steel trap used exten-
sively in your locality?” and of the replies 53 were “no”
while 46 were “yes.” On the whole rabbits were rather
more often said to be troublesome where the trap was used
than where it was not, but there was no great difference
except as regards the rabbit—plague areas of the west.
Thus the supposed indispensability of the gin arises from
local custom and not from any real necessity.

In the Rabbit 1W emcee in New South Wales* we read:

The screams of the entrapped rabbits, gripped by the
steel jaws of the “gin,” have much to do with frightening
rabbits away from one part of a run to another, thus render—
ing it more difﬁcult to eradicate the pest.

And again :

Landholders who are bent upon the complete eradica—
tion of rabbits do not make a practice of using the steel
traps.

We must notice here the often repeated fallacy that
the gin cannot be abolished “till a humane substitute has
been invented.” If by a ‘ ‘substitute’ ’ is meant a humane
trap having precisely the same technical effect as the gin,
then those who use this argument had better say honestly
what their words imply—that the gin must go on for ever.
For thirteen years at least the R.S.P.C.A. has offered a
large prize for a humane trap and hundreds of attempts have

 

 

 




 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

   
   

 

  

I4 M an versus Rabbit

been made to win it, but no “substitute for the gin” in
this sense has gained the prize. A leading trap—manu-
facturer has estimated that in order to test all the possi-
bilities fully a research costing possibly £2,000 or £3,000
would have to be carried out. Nobody of course can say
with certainty that such a research would fail to produce
results, but one must feel pessimistic on this point. In
any event, by ﬁrst removing the gin as a competitor we
should create conditions favorable to the invention and
adoption of a humane rabbit trap, if such an invention were
feasible.

If, on the other hand, by a ‘ ‘humane substitute for
the gin’ ’ is meant a method of catching rabbits satisfactor-
ily, such methods are already available for all conditions of
terrain. Details will be given in § 6.

In The Rabbit Menace in New South Wales* we read:

In the early days of wholesale rabbit destruction the
trap formed only a small part. Increased use of the steel
trap has not been because this method was more destructive
to rabbits than other methods, but because it furnished the
best results to the modern ‘ ‘rabbiter.” It will be evident
to all that methods of fumigation, however effective they
may be in removing the pest in any district, can hardly
suit the aims of the trapper working to obtain the skins or
carcases or perhaps both.

The Brighton and Eastbourne Corporations have for-
bidden its use on lands leased by them, and I learn from
their Town Clerks that the rabbits are quite well kept down
by humane methods. Various correspondents, some of
whose letters appear in the appendices assure us that the
gin is not used on their land. We have not, however,
compiled any systematic list of estates where the gin is
forbidden.

We have obtained very strong evidence from the Chief
Constables in the principal trapping counties in reply to
personal letters addressed to them in 1932. Their opinions,
given in Appendix F, are unanimous to the effect that the
gin is not necessary.

 

* See Appendix E .

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Is the rabbit stock, game or vermin? 15

The University of London Animal Welfare Society and
the various humane bodies which are co-operating with it are
set upon the abolition of the gin as an instrument of cruelty
which is also economically undesirable. But even were
there some arguments from an economic point of view in
favour of its continued use, we should maintain that ethics
in this case must over—rule the claims of convenience, and
that humane methods ought to supersede barbarous ones
which belong to the age of the thumb—screw and the rack.

§4. IS THE RABBIT STOCK, GAME OR VERMIN?

The rabbit has a charming face;

Its private life is a disgrace.

I really dare not name to you

The awful things that rabbits do——-
Things that your paper never prints,
You only mention them in hints.
They have such lost, degraded souls
No wonder they inhabit holes;
Where such depravity is found

It only can live underground.

The principal obstacle to the abolition of the trap is the
muddled thinking Which exists with regard to the ques-
tion at the head of this section. Three policies are possible.
(I) When the rabbit is regarded as stock, the cream of the
rabbits are caught every year and the remainder are left
to breed. A proﬁt is made by the trapper, who pays for
the right to take the rabbits. No attempt is made at
extermination. Steel-trapping under many conditions is
considered to yield easier and larger proﬁts than other
methods when this policy is adopted. (2) When the rabbit
is regarded as game its numbers are kept down by shooting.
This is quite feasible so long as the rabbit—population has
not been allowed to get out of hand. The density of rabbit-
population is maintained at a much lower level when this
policy is adopted than when the rabbit is regarded as stock .
(3) When the rabbit is regarded as vermin and extermination
is desired, rabbit-catching has to be carried to such a length
that it ceases to yield proﬁts. This procedure is well

 




 

 

 

 

 

I6 M an versus Rabbit

worth while, since damage to valuable crops or trees is
prevented by its means; but if a land-owner sells his trap-
ping rights for a sum of money he must not expect that the
trapper will exterminate the rabbits. The trapper would
make a heavy loss if he were to attempt to do so. If exter-
mination is desired some one must be paid to effect it. It
is not feasible in practice to exterminate rabbits with the
gin; the ﬁnal clean-up at least must be done by attacking
them in their holes.

At certain times and in certain places it is possible for
farmers, especially those who have poor land or are unsuc-
cessful for other reasons, to make a proﬁt by selling the rabbit
crop to commercial trappers, in accordance With policy
no. (I). Owing to the fall in the price of rabbits this
practice is far less proﬁtable now than it used to be. From
an agricultural point of View it is open to objection in
that (i) the rabbits are apt to feed on high-farmed land
belonging to neighbours: (ii) experience in Cornwall, Devon
and South Wales shows that the practice has in it the po-
tentiality of a rabbit plague which is devastating to serious
agriculture (both crops and stock) and to forestry.

Question 3 of our questionnaire was ‘ ‘Are rabbits
regarded as a pest in your locality?’ ’ About two thirds of
the replies were “yes,” and one third “no.”

I have already mentioned the clash which arises from
the fact that in the same district one farmer or land—owner
Wishes to preserve, his next—door neighbour wishes to keep
down or even exterminate the rabbits. My experience
(and it is founded on a life of observation as a naturalist
and sportsman, and of late years as a worker in the realm
of experiments in humane methods of trapping) teaches me
that not one in ten farmers and very few private land—owners
desire extermination of their rabbits, except in the west-
country districts where the rabbit-trapping industry has
become a real menace to serious agriculture. Elsewhere
I know as a sportsman that at the end of a day with the
guns the bag of rabbits is scrutinized almost as closely as the
bag of other game. Rabbits are preserved all over the
country, just as pheasants, partridges, foxes and hares are

 

 




 

 

Is the rabbit stock, game or vermin? I7

preserved ; poachers are prosecuted, the principles of start-
ing a rabbit warren are suggested in sporting papers, and
ofttimes the strain of existing rabbit communities is delib-
erately improved by the introduction of fresh stock bucks.
Restocking of estates with rabbits is practised; papers
like The Field and The Gamekeeper advertise the sale of wild
rabbits for ‘ ‘turning down,” and articles appear in sporting
periodicals discussing the best methods of improving the
rabbit strain. From practical experience I know that very
few farmers will authorize even“ an attempt to exterminate
rabbits on their land. As Mr. Collington has remarked,
“you might as well offer to exterminate a man’s sheep.”

Even if it were true, therefore, that the gin was required
for exterminating rabbits, there would be no argument for
retaining this barbarous weapon since extermination is
not being sought . But I shall show in the next section that
the truth is very much otherwise .

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

18 Man versus Rabbit

 

‘ 4411495751?
CARD/CAN . \ O

\\\\\\\\\A.me ALA/VDYSSUL

/<\€\«\C\‘\\\\\\\ § 0
«(\va\ LLANDOVERY

SHEEP

    
   
   
 

   
   
    

O
§§C<\EARS$ CARMARTHFIV
WH/TLAND "
\\\\\\\\
\\p\\\\,~. M'LK
.\§\ \
LLA/VELLY - NEAT”
SWA/vsm I

TRAPPED AREAS ._
UNTRAPPED AREAS

MAP OF SOUTH WALES.

Trapping originally started in pre~war days in the burrows on the
coast near Pendine and elsewhere. When the price of rabbits rose during
the war the trappers started buying the trapping-rights inland in the
hatched area, and breeding rabbits. This country now swarms with
rabbits (see appendix B). Although there is similar land in the non-
hatched area, there are few rabbits there; the farmers saw what was
happening further west and refused to let the trappers start.

The small peninsula south—east of St. Clears covers the parishes of
Llanibrie, Llangain, Llangunnor and Llanstephan. There is hardly a
rabbit in it, but it is full of foxes and other predators. Most of it is ex-
tremely valuable dairy land, but some of it is poor land with a lot of
thick coverts and dingles ; the fences are all banks. This is ideal rabbit
land, but there are hardly any rabbits because no traps are used.

If you cross the G.W.R. main line which runs a few hundred yards
south of the main St. Clears-Carmarthen road you will find the whole
country rotten with rabbits and no predators. Yet it is similar land. The
rabbits over-ran it as a result of the coming of the trappers.

From CAPT. W. H. BUCKLEY.

 

umomod

-

w

 




 

2:,

 

§5. THE GIN AS A CAUSE OF RABBIT PLAGUES.

Traps as an Instrument of Rabbit Preservation. Contradictory as the
idea may appear, traps must be considered . . . the best means of main-
taining a plentiful stock.

R. Sharpe, Board of Agriculture, Miscellaneous Publications 22 (1918).

 

The replies to questions 3 and 7 of our questionnaire
may be arranged as follows 2-—

 

 

 

Cases in which Cases in which
rabbits are a rabbits are not
pest. a pest .
Cases in which steel traps
are used .......... 34 12
Cases in which steel traps
are not used .......... 32 21

 

 

 

Probably where the steel trap is used in moderation it
makes little difference to the population; moreover, trap or
no trap, rabbits will multiply if nothing is done to keep
them down. However, it is clear that on the whole the
trap is associated with the multiplication rather than the
reduction of rabbits. The replies to question 25 were three
to one in favour of the View that where trapping for proﬁt
is systematically carried on, there the rabbit population

19

 




 

 

 

 

2o M an versus Rabbit

continues to be highest. Those of our correspondents who
express the view that ‘ ‘you cannot keep down rabbits with-
out the trap’ ’ do not appear to have tried . They are merely
expressing an opinion with no objective evidence to support
it . ‘ ,
Trappers working on contracts have caused in the
western cOunties a plague of rabbits that has become
extremely serious. Documents suppOrting this statement
Will be found in the appendices. That rabbits are most
numerous where the gin is most used, nobody with know—
ledge would deny, but we have to ask which is cause and
which is effect? A striking proof that the gin is the cause
is afforded by the map on page I8. The country in Pem-
brokeshire and western Carmarthenshire is in many parts
similar to that in eastern Carmarthenshire for rabbit
purposes. Before the war PembrOkeshire was compara-
tively free from rabbits except on the coast, where there
was trapping with the gin or steel trap. During the war
rabbit-trapping brought good proﬁts and the steel trappers
extended throughout Pembrokeshire and western Car-
marthenshire, but the farmers. of eastern Carmarthenshire
would not have them. Now the trapped area swarms with
rabbits while the untrapped area is comparatively free
from them. '
Mr. J.’ A. Deven’ish, of St’averton, South Devon,
writes:
‘ ‘ My experience amply conﬁrms your claim that rabbit-
trapping is responsible for increasing the number of rabbits .
I know areas where rabbits were scarce before trapping was
introduced and since then the rabbit population has in-
creased enormously. The above facts are so well known in
this district that many farmers are now abandoning their
old custom of having their rabbits trapped. I have con-
versed with several trappers (who are a hard-working,
intelligent and very respectable class) and they all agree
that they do not like the steel traps and would use other
means if all did the same. Trappers are bound by competi-
tion to use them , whereas if the traps were forbidden by law
they would all be on equal terms to use other methods. ’ ’
The following are probably the reasons Why the steel
trap is associated with excessive multiplication of rabbits.

 




The gin as a cause of rabbit plagues 21

(i) The commercial trappers trap at such times and in
such a manner as to preserve and augment a breeding stock;

' and the contract system is intimately linked with the ttSB of

the gin.

Doubtless they do so to some extent intentionally, for
otherwise they would destroy their means of livelihood.*
R. Sharpe in Misc. Pub., No. 22, published by the Board
of Agriculture when a large supply of rabbits was desired
in I918, gives advice (p. 46) tending to show that the trap-
per who traps for proﬁt will arrange his work so as to secure
a large rabbit—pOpulation.T We read also (p. 32):

‘ ‘ If, through bad management, snaring operations are
continued all through March , the commencement of breeding
is held back until well into April; but if the rabbits are left
alone after the end of February , early litters are the rule and
a clear month is gained. The progeny of these early litters
will themselves bring up two or three families in the late
summer and early autumn. . . . The underlying policy
is to produce the maximum crop of rabbits during the
season of plenty, and to harvest it befOre scarcity engenders
destructive habits.’ ’

Mr. Douglas Gordon, of Okehampton, the naturalist,
writes: “It is true that rabbits appear to multiply on
ground that is habitually trapped, the reason being not
only the consequent decrease of the rabbit’s natural
enemies, but the lack of the general disturbance which
shooting and ferreting involve. Upon this account they
breed earlier in the year upon land where the trapper reigns
supreme than in territory where the burrows are thoroughly
cleared out by ferrets during February.”

In any event, the trappers always stop work when the
yield ceases to be proﬁtable in consequence of rabbits having
ﬂed to neighbouring property, stayed in their burrows, or
been caught. Thus they catch only a modest proportion of
the stock.

 

’1‘ See page 59.

1' In fairness to the author of this pamphlet it must be mentioned
that he advocates early trapping in the hope of minimizing the damage
done to agriculture. Experience has shown, however, that in practice the
trapper has proved to be an enemy to good farming.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

22

M an versus Rabbit

 

 

 

_.._~_

The steel trap helps the professional trapper

<1 “is? WW

to help the rabbit -harbourer

 

    

“5/
‘W§V)

toAhelp the rabbit

 

 

 

17¢

I
a;
f.

 

MWQW . l
to help himself.

‘ ‘If you forbade the steep trap , which makes things easy
and proﬁtable for the professional trapper in proportion as
it is cruel, you would see a steady decrease in the rabbits of
the country. These men encourage rabbit—production.
The tenant or owner who lets out the right to take rabbits
must hold his own hand. The trappers release a certain
number of does; and it is the common experience that
where trapping for proﬁt is most systematically carried on ,
there the poputation of rabbits continues to be greatest.
The conclusion of the whole matter is}plain: abolish the
steel rtap. Rabbits would decrease, not multiply.”
——Sir W. Beach Tomas in the Spectator, February 3 , 1933.

 

 

 




 

The gin as a cause of rabbit plagues 23

(ii) The steel trap diﬂers from other instruments for
taking rabbits in that it indiscriminately kills off the rabbit’s
natural enemies .

We have at present no deﬁnite proof that this is or is not a
major factor in the situation. .The general Opinion ex-
pressed in reply to question 26 of the questionnaire is that
it is so. So far as it goes, and probably to a very consider-
able extent, the wholesale destruction of stoats, etc.,
tends to the increase of rabbits under existing conditions.
This explanation is adopted by R. Sharpe in the Board of
Agriculture pamphlet already quoted (p. 34).

Traps as an Instrument of Rabbit Preservation. Con»
tradictory as the idea may appear, traps must be con-
sidered . . the best means of maintaining a plentiful stock
on the ground. The reason is plain to see. Traps not only
catch rabbits , but they also catch the vermin which frequent
rabbit earths. Rats, stoats, weasels, poaching cats, all
fall victims to the trap set for rabbits. These animals in
their several ways prey upon the rabbit , and are an import-
ant means of reducing the number available.

(iii) The sex ratio of rabbits caught is an important
factor.

For reducing numbers it is necessary, as in the Rodier'
system used in Australia, to kill more does than bucks. In
this connection appendix F is of great interest.

It has long been suspected that the does are more
timid than the bucks and that they stay underground when
they hear the squealing of other rabbits caught in traps.
Correspondent No. M II found that after three highly
skilled steel-trappers had done their best with the steel trap
during the whole winter down to the end of March, he was
able with ferrets to catch 1124 rabbits in three months,
and of the adult rabbits 75 per cent were then does while
only 25 per cent were bucks. The prima facie inference is
that the bucks had been caught and the does left by the
steel trap. If this inference is correct the effect of steel-
trapping all the Winter is, by removing the bucks, to
prevent them from competing with the does for the food
supply, to keep the ground clean and diminish the risk of

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

24 M an versus Rabbit

infection with parasites and disease by temporarily dimin-
iShing the population, and to prevent the bucks from
.harrying the does or killing young rabbits when the breeds
ing season comes on. It thus leaves a good stock of fat
.and healthy does for the breeding season, together with a
restricted number of bucks which ﬁnd themselves in the
same situation as the Seigneur de Castel Bouc. As a
result there is a bumper crop of new rabbits ready by the
harvest.

 

Whether the steel trap really does catch more bucks
"than does we cannot be absolutely certain till some direct
counts of trapped rabbits (as distinct from residual rabbits)
have been taken by reliable observers. What we can be
«certain of is that more does than bucks are caught by
.ferreting.

Correspondent No. M 8, of North Cornwall, wrote:

‘ ‘My farm is I70 acres, near the moors, and part of the
farm has the wood boundary hedge. Last February,
directly the rabbit-trappers had removed their gins, I and
my son caught with ferrets 64 doe rabbits before we caught
one buck rabbit. After this I did not keep an account of the
sexes, but very few buck rabbits were caught. ’ ’

Later, his son wrote (September 10th, 1934) 2——

 

 




 

 

The gin as a cause of rabbit plagues 25

‘ ‘We have been ferreting this year before the trappers
started and have caught about 40 rabbits, and there were
two does to one buck.”

These ﬁgures indicate that in any case ferreting gets the
does rather than the bucks; moreover, the reduction of the
ratio from 2 :1 before trapping to 64 :I after trapping sug—
gests that the gin may have the reverse effect. ‘
R. Sharpe in the Board of Agriculture (1918) pamphlet
advises that ferreting should not be practised after
the breeding season has begun if a large population of
rabbits is desired (p. 46) and adds: . -

“Conﬁrmation of the belief that the bucks are the
difﬁculty is to be found in the fact that four out of every
ﬁve rabbits taken at such seasons are does. Favourable
conditions for improving the quality of stock only exist
when the surplus of bucks can be removed, and the curious
circumstances related in this note* go to show that ferreting

left till too late in the season accentuates the evil of a
surplus of bucks.”

This advice should clearly be reversed now that rabbits
have become such a pest.

(iv) The trap causes constant squealing and s0 a’m'ves
rabbits on to netghboum'ng lands where they will not be caught
at that tune.

Men who have cleaned their land of rabbits by other
methods are thus subjected to invasion from property where
the gin is used; and when the commercial trappers have
ﬁnished their work, which may last a few days, the rabbits
are free to return.

 

* The “curious circumstance” is the writer’s theory that bucks in
the breeding season are repellent'to ferrets. But the experience of corres-
pondent N o. M 8 indicates that ferrets catch more does than bucks in
September, as well as in the breeding season.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

§6. RECOMMENDED METHODS OF DEALING WITH

RABBITS .
‘ ‘Belligerents have not an unrestricted right as to the choice of means
for injuring the enemy . . . . . It is particularly forbidden . . . to
employ arms . . . calculated to cause unnecessary suffering.’ ’ (Tr.) .

International Convention Concerning the Laws and Customs of War on

Land, signed at The Hague, October 18th, 1934.

In different parts of the country different methods are
in general use, often quite independently of the nature of
the land. In the West of England and parts of Scotland
the gin holds sway, Whilst in South-Eastern England it is
very seldom seen except for the capture of creatures other
than rabbits. The inﬂuence of fashion and convention in
rabbit—catching must not be overlooked. Realizing that
right would be a poor plea single-handed against the claims
of vested interests, convenience and custom, which last is
possibly the most difﬁcult to overthrow, we have been at
some pains to satisfy ourselves that more humane methods
are capable of dealing with all legitimate requirements.

I have now for some time had an opportunity of
personally investigating methods of humane rabbit-
catching, have discussed the subject continuously with
land—owners, farmers, farm agents, game—keepers, and
poachers. The more I thrash out this subject, the more
fully convinced I become that the steel trap can be abolished
Without any particular hardship to anyone, except of course
the commercial trapper working on contract and the trap-
manufacturer .

The following methods are adequate either singly or in
conjunction, according to the difﬁculties to be overcome;
and though in some of them there exists cruelty, that
cruelty is small in comparison with the intolerable torture
of the steel trap.

The long or poacher’ 3 net is by far the most satisfactory
means for catching large numbers, and is the chief method
used by poachers. With it many rabbits can be captured
in a night along the edge of a wood or in the neighbourhood
of warrens, and by day in certain woods where rabbits do

26

    
 

  




 

Recommended methods of dealing with rabbits 27

not generally frequent holes. Experienced netters with
whom I have worked, conversed and corresponded, agree
that by this means larger numbers of rabbits can be caught
than by any other, including the gin. It is clear from
replies to question 8 of our questionnaire—‘ ‘Are there any
local men who know how to use the long net ?’ ’————that the
method has been culpably neglected except by poachers.
One correspondent replied: “Both in gaol.” With a
little ingenuity and the assistance of supplementary
devices, such as acetylene and trenching, it can be used in
many situations for which it does not, at ﬁrst sight, seem
to be adapted. Those who say ‘ ‘We cannot get results with
it” are usually confessing to want of skill, perseverance,
ingenuity and knowledge. If poachers working surrepti-
tiously by night can capture large numbers, it stands to
reason that an honest farmer and his employés can do even
better when working unhampered by fear of detection.
Instructions are given in appendix G.

Long nets are usually laid out at night, but those who
wish to avoid this inconvenience can use Collington’s
supports or Van der Byl’ 5 method of looping the net, which
can then be dropped by pulling a string from a distance
when required. If daylight setting is adopted, the net
must be left standing for three days while the rabbits get
used to it. '

Ferrets, which can be used with guns, long nets and
purse nets, and which play so important a part in reducing
the rabbit population, are good, average and bad. The
breeding of reliable strains of ferrets is an agricultural
pursuit which has been too much neglected. Reliable
ferrets mean merciful ferreting, and kindly handling
helps to make the ferret sweet-tempered. How often we see
a ferret carried all day in a small bag, instead of a box
containing straw, and, when required, picked up by the
tail and pitched into the mouth of the hole as if it were an
inanimate object. Small wonder that they resent such
unfair treatment. Ferrets handled in this way will bite
and will refuse to come out of holes when a rabbit is absent
or has bolted.

   

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
   




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

28 M an versus Rabbit

Ferrets with purse nets, with or without guns, are
the most general and satisfactory means for dealing with
hedgerows, banks, isolated holes and small warrens.
Many farmers use only this method for keeping the rabbit
population within bounds, and incidentally for sport.

Ferrets alone with guns, provided the shooting is reason-
ably good, will account for a heavy percentage of rabbits
in the above-mentioned localities. This method, like
ferreting generally, is better conducted in dry frosty weather,
under which conditions the animals bolt more readily.

Bolttng-fnze can be used instead of ferrets.

Bolt nets or ftarnbs can be used instead of purse nets
, when the mouths of the burrows are large.

Shooting, both by walking up and associated with
ordinary driving in woods, is responsible for considerably
reducing the rabbits in many parts where the steel trap is
not used. Here one cannot lay too great stress on the im-
portance and humaneness of having a properly trained dog
for rapidly retrieving a rabbit which is escaping to earth
With a dragging limb.

Small warrens, of say 20 holes, can be ferreted in the
ordinary way with ferrets in association with purse nets,
long nets, guns or guns with long nets. In small warrens
where extermination is important and the holes are deep,
it would be wiser to destroy the animals with exhaust-gas
as in the case of big warrens. In deep warrens the “lying
up’ ’ of ferrets is attended with much loss of time and
patience, and often loss of ferrets.

Large warrens. - Where extermination is required it
may be accomplished by surrounding the warren at say 40
yards (a long distance is important as the rabbits do not
notice the net until well away from the holes) with long nets,
which should stand, when sticks are in position, not more
than 18 in. high, with plenty of slack. A reliable gun or
two is an advantage. Trenches should be cut through the
width or length of the warren, the depth of same to reach to
the bottom of the deepest hole and extend to the outside
limits of the warren. In warrens of say 30 to 50 holes one
trench will sufﬁce, but in very large warrens it may be

 




 

 

Recommended methods of dealing with rabbits 29

necessary to make two or even more. These trenches should
be parallel and from I8 in. to 2 ft. in width. When the
trenching and the setting of the net is complete each
section is separately ferreted with four or more reliable
ferrets. A man standing in each trench hustles the rabbits
which make exit there. These animals generally jump to
the top of the trench and stampede for the net where they
become entangled and can be mercifully dispatched. A
warren properly ferreted in this way is unlikely to retain
many rabbits. At the earliest opportunity the trenches
and holes should be ﬁlled in and the ground ploughed if it is
intended for pasture or cultivation. At the ﬁrst sign of
rabbits returning, calcium carbide should be thrown into
each newly scratched hole which should then be ﬁlled in.

Knotted snares hold without strangling and when set in
quiet ﬁelds are a great improvement on ordinary snares,
although the quarry will struggle violently if disturbed.
Thus the snares do not work well near frequented roads or
footpaths. They can be obtained from the R.S.P.C.A. or
from Young & Sons (Misterton), Ltd.

Digging out pure and simple is an excellent method of
clearing out rabbits wholesale from any but very big and
deep burrows. It is a method which might be adopted
much more commonly, and generally speaking the work
entailed is more than compensated by the numbers of
rabbits captured.

M otor-car exhaust gas (containing carbon monoxide).
In cases where extermination is desired and food value is
not a consideration the exhaust from any car, motor-cycle
or tractor, transmitted to holes in warren or hedgerow
through a garden hose, will mercifully and rapidly kill all
the rabbits, even of the biggest community. This method
I have tried on several occasions without a single failure,
and on one I killed hundreds of rabbits in two big warrens
and a nearby hole-ridd led hedgerow in about four hours at a
total expense of 155. These rabbits die a very quick and
most merciful death. The ﬂesh is unsuitable for food, but
is not poisonous. Instructions are given in appendix H.

Cyanogas. This is much used in Australia when

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

30 Man versus Rabbit

extermination is desired. All holes but one are blocked
up with damp cloth. Two or three ounces of calcium
cyanide or a similar compound are thrown into the remain-
ing hole, which is then blocked also. The cyanide reacts
with the dampness of the soil to produce cyanogen gas thus

Ca(CN)2+2H20~—>Ca(OH)2+2HCN.

Cyanogen kills instantly on being breathed. Precautions
for the safety of the Operator must be observed, and in wet
weather a gas mask must be worn. In View of the instability
of the damp cyanide there is no danger of poisoning the soil.

The above may be considered as the standard methods
of dealing with rabbits, and they alone will generally be
found adequate to deal with a rabbit menace, with a
moderate number of rabbits, or with sporting requirements .
They are more or less humane, and at their worst cannot be
classed with the gin for cruelty. The following additional
suggestions are well worth considering in exceptional con-
ditions :———— '

Young rabbits can be caught in the breeding holes in
numbers during the breeding season; their holes can be
located by a terrier.

Acetylene, generated by throwing calcium carbide into
the burrows overnight and blocking the holes, will cause the
rabbits to, leave and make for cover, where they can be
dealt with by netting or shooting.

Anomotl and renardtne are used like acetylene for
tainting out rabbits from their burrows. They may also
be used for keeping rabbits away from certain localities. I
have not tried them personally, however.

The gate net is a net about 6 yards long and deeper than
the long net, and is used at gates and gaps in walls and
rabbit-resisting fences, Where rabbits pass through in large
numbers when returning from feeding ground to burrow.

The gate traj) may be used where permanent wire netting
surrounds woods. Its essential feature is a swinging gate
adapted to a hole in the netting; this gate can at a suitable
time be made to open in one direction only, so as to act as a
valve.

 




Photo by Smith’s Studios, Ltd. , Loughborough.

The long net; for instructions, see Appendix J.

 

PLATE II. To f co page 30

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Long net with Collington supports, in raised (inoperative) position.

 

\

 

(Photo by Tozm and Country News)-

Long not with Collington supports, dropped into the operative position by pulling a string at a distance.

 

\‘i.\'l‘\= \ \ \ ’I’.. (Hun I: III: '.\ > ”A A dual“! 4 _




(u: U LILUUQ/o

e posﬂzion by pulling a string at a distance.

Long net with Collington supports, dropped into the operativ

‘P LA'l‘h‘.

 

Recommended methods of dealing with rabbits 31

Quick-killing snares. Of these the Lewis spring snare
is very satisfactory. It catches more rabbits than the
ordinary snare, and experience shows that it will kill in the
comparatively short space of "from I to 6 minutes. It is
more expensive than the ordinary snare, but lasts much
longer as the wire does not become twisted by the animal’s
struggles. It is supplied by the R.S.P.C.A. at as. each or
185. per dozen.

At the moment of going to press my attention has been
called to the Gripper non—return snare. At present I have
had no opportunity of investigating its merits.

We're netting. People who wish to make money out of
rabbits should be compelled to fence their property with
netting for the sake of their neighbours. .

 

- a - ':‘- - o
. ~ - a
J. ‘1‘!“‘ﬁ' {gt-ti; H.

Gate net. From S. Young & Sons (Misterton) Ltd. Size 12 ft. X 4 ft. ,
35. Size 15ft. x 4ft. , 38. ed.

 

Lewis quick-killing snare for rabbits: price 25. each or 183. per doz.,
supplied by the R.S.P.C.A. , 105, Jermyn Street, S .W.I .

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

32 Man versus Rabbit

 

Renardz‘ne for causing rabbits to leave their burrows, protecting
trees, crops and ﬂower beds from rabbits and cats, protecting birds from
foxes, &c. From Gilbertson and Page, Ltd., Hertford, Herts., price
45. per qt., 7s. 3d. per half gall., I38. 6d. per gall., carriage paid.

Anomoz'l is a similar substance supplied by Young & Sons (Misterton)
Ltd., Misterton, Somerset. Sample tin, zs. 3d; quart, 3s. 6d .; half
gallon, 65. ; gallon, 11s., carriage paid, with directions for use.

 

 

The Gripper break-back rat trap, from the Gripper Manufacturing
Co., Portland Road, Leicester. Price 208. per doz., carriage paid.

 

The Gripper mole trap, made by the Gripper Manufacturing Co.,
Portland Road, Leicester. Price 123. per doz., carriage paid.

Everitt’s trap for vermin, of the break-back type, is made by Henry
Lane, Ltd., Wednesﬁeld. 44s. 3d. per dozen, carriage paid.

The Terror break-back rat-trap is supplied by S. Young & Sons
(Misterton), Ltd., at 128. per dozen, carriage paid.

 

 

 




 

 

Recommended methods of dealing with rabbits 33

 

 

Humane eat-trap, price 158. 6d. each, carriage paid From Gilbert-
son & Page, Ltd. , Hertford, Herts.

 

Spratt’s patent box “Vei'mtmp.” From Spratt’s Patent, Ltd., 58,
Mark Lane, E .C .3. For all kinds of vermin.
and 355. each.

In three sizes, 253., 305.,

 

   
 
    

 

    
 
 

 
    

  

   
 
  
   
  

  

 

   
       
  

// — ’ //////////////dd-\

. __ x i
/ ’ /////,/;n\l.
0 V7
\N

The Clanstns tunnel trap for weasels, stoats, &c . , 78. each single, 138.
each double, carriage paid. From Gilbertson & Page, Ltd., Hertford.

   

 

&
\
Z.

     
 

  

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

34

M cm versus Rabbit

 

Spratt’s wire cage trap for vermin. From Spratt’s Patent, Ltd..

58_,MarkLane, E.C.3. _In four sizes, 16 in. X 6% in. X 5% in.,24 in. X
61n.>< 61n.;361n. x 8m. x 8in.,and 36 in. X 16 in. X 12 in. Prices
85. 6d., 123. 6d., I78. 6d., 213., carriage paid.

 

YOU NG'S LT}?

Wire cage trap for catching rats, stoats, weasels, cats, foxes, squirrels

and birds. From S. Young & Sons (Misterton), Ltd. Size 36 in. X 9 in.
X 9 in., 158. 9d. Size 48 in. X 12 in. X I5 in., 423. 6d. Any Size
quoted for.

108.

Cheaper types of wire cage imp are the Wonder (45. each, three for
6d .) , Eclipse (75. and gs.) , and Simplex (5s. 9d., threeafor 163. 6d.),

carriage paid, all from the above makers.

 

 

 




 

§7. SOME RECOMMENDED METHODS OF DEALING
WITH VERMIN.

‘ ‘Let us avoid all cruelty, all unnecessary suffering inﬂicted on these
creatures which, after all, are only obeying their natural instincts. Let

us defend ourselves, but let us not be torturers.’ ’ (Tr.
H. L. ALPH. BLANCHON, L’Art de De’tmz’re les Animaux
Nuisz'bles.

The word ‘ ‘Vermin’ ’ would appear to mean any creature
Whose presence at a particular time and under particular
conditions is obnoxious to some particular person or
persons. To the game-preserver stoats and weasels are
vermin, notwithstanding the fact that the stoat destroys the
rabbits which the best farmers want destroyed, and the
weasel (a much misjudged beast) spends most of its hunting
hours catching rats, mice, and moles, which everybody
wants destroyed. If we prohibit the gin, rabbits will
ultimately diminish in numbers and stoats will at ﬁrst
increase; the farmer will not be worried by the rabbits, but
the game—keepers will be worried by the stoats. If the
weasels, hawks, owls, etc., are decimated, mice, voles
and moles will increase and may become a plague. Again,
the homely domestic cat in its thousands is deliberately
caught in gins by game-keepers; it is placed in one category
as a friend of man and in the other as vermin of the deepest
dye. The fox is preserved to a regulated extent by the
hunting fraternity and (although one must say it with
bated breath) caught in gins and in other ways persecuted
by game-keepers. To use a West—Country expression, we
don’t know where we’re to, but if vermin other than
rabbits are to be destroyed. here are some humane methods.

Stoats and weasels. These animals will run through
anything in the nature of a tunnel; the game-keeper, there—
fore, puts his gin in a drain-pipe or an improvised tunnel of
bricks, stones, wood, etc. It is only from force of habit that
he keeps to the gin: any form of break—back trap will kill a
stoat or weasel, and can be placed in a tunnel under exactly
similar conditions. Again, the art of making deadfall

35

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

36 M an versus Rabbit

traps, which kill instantly, is easily acquired by any
schoolboy. These traps were formerly in general use for
trapping fur-bearing animals in North America, and full
instructions for making many different kinds can be learnt
from a little book, Deadfalls and Snares, by A. R. Harding
(Columbus, Ohio, U.S.A. $1). Box traps and tunnel traps
also can be used for these animals.

Foxes. These are vermin to many game-keepers, but
the wrath of the MWFH would descend on us were we to
advocate methods other than hunting for their destruction.

Domestic cats and dogs. The custom of turning cats
out at night is responsible for the campaign of game-
keepers against them. That campaign is largely conducted
by means of gins and poison. A pamphlet of advice to
householders would perhaps meet the case, but under no
circumstances can it be justiﬁable to mutilate these animals
in gins. The same remark applies to dogs.

Jays and magpies can be destroyed during the nesting
season when their nests are easily located. Organized
shoots, which are held by the farmers and game-keepers in
certain parts of the country, are responsible for the destruc-
tion of large numbers of these birds. These shoots could be
multiplied with advantage. The birds can be enticed to the
neighbourhood of a concealed gun by special decoy whistles
sold for this purpose. I understand this method is part-
icularly satisfactory in the case of jays.

jackdaws and crows can be caught in a large wire cage
with a funnel entrance suitably baited. Details and draw-
ings of this trap, designed by Major C. B. Wainwright, can
be obtained from the Royal Society for the Protection of
Birds, 82 Victoria St., S.W.I.

Rats. Traps are at best only a subsidiary means for
taking rats, which are too clever to be caught in this way
except by experienced men. Moreover ‘ ‘the ordinary
steel gin or toothed spring trap may not only prove a source
of cruelty, as rats may be left in them for hours, but are
unsatisfactory in another way, because the squealing of the
animal in the trap gives warning to other rats.’ ’ * Motor-
car exhaust gas affords the most humane and effective means

 

 

 




 

 

 

Some recommended methods of dealing with vermin 37

for killing rats (see appendix H), and break-back traps and
cage traps will do all that a gin can do. Some references on
humane ratting will be found in Vol. 2 of the Animal
Year-Boole? page I31.

. M nsk mts. The Ministry of Agriculture and the
Department of Agriculture for Scotland deal with these
animals, which were imported for fur—farming purposes and
became a menace as the result of escapes. Indications of
their presence should at once be reported to the appropriate
Ministry, from which a leaﬂet on the subject can be ob-
tained. This leaﬂet does not recommend the gin. The
instructions for control are: “Gas attacks must be care-
fully planned according to the local conditions, and
should not be undertaken except with expert advice.
Natural enemies of the musk rat are few or absent in
Britain, but there are signs that stoats and weasels are
learning to enter the burrows and attack the young.
Land—owners should give these animals full protection
in the neighbourhood of water.” The clearing of
water-courses also is recommended, as water weeds favour
the musk rat. Dynamiting of the musk—rat houses in winter
has been suggested. We learn from a leading trap—manu—
facturer that during a musk—rat crisis in Scotland a trap of the-
killing type was used with success by the Ministry, but at
present this trap could not be produced at a price which
would enable it to compete with the gin for general use.

Moles. If the springs of a mole-trap are weak the
mole is squeezed to death slowly. The Gripper mole—trap
has been designed with the object of ensuring instant death.

Break-back traps, box traps and tunnel traps. Most
trap-manufacturers and dealers in game-requisites supply
these for vermin. By the courtesy of some well—known
manufacturers we are able to illustrate some examples of
such traps.

 

* Ministry of Agriculture Bulletin N o. 30, Rats and How to Destroy
Them (1931\.

1‘ Published by the U.L.A.W.S., 68 Torrington Square, W.C.I,.
price 25. 6d., postage 3d.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

§8. LEGISLATION .

‘ ‘The law of England—when once we ﬁnd out what it is—is the best
and noblest system which this world has ever seen. But it is sadly
defective in its arrangement. . .’ ’

W. BLAKE ODGERS, The Common Law of England.

Various attempts have been made to diminish the
cruelty of trapping by legislation, but they have been
uniformly unsuccessful. It may be noted, however, that in
Denmark trappers have to be licensed. The use of gins and
snares is forbidden except with a special permit, which is
granted on condition that traps shall be visited three times
a day. Whether or not these conditions are obeyed in
practice we do not know, but it is certain that in Britain
the law on trapping is generally ignored, and it cannot be
enforced because evidence against offenders cannot as a
rule be obtained without access to private land.

The object of The Ground Game Act, 1880, was to give
tenants the right to protect their land from being over-run
by rabbits and hares when the landlords who held the
shooting rights failed to keep these animals down. But
section 6 laid down that ‘ ‘no person having a right of killing
ground game under this Act or otherwise shall .
for the purpose of killing ground game employ spring
traps except in rabbit holes . . .” The words “or
otherwise” would seem to a layman’s common sense to
mean that nobody may employ spring traps except in
rabbit holes, but the Courts have taken a different View.
The leading cases are Smith V. Hunt 1886, 50 JP. 280;
May v. Waters 1910, I KB. 437; Leworthy v. Rees 1913,
109 LT. 244. The effect of these judgments is that while
tenants may not set traps for rabbits except in rabbit holes,
landlords may do so. It has been suggested that a bill
might be promoted for extending this provision to land—
lords also, but (I) such a provision could no more be en—
forced than the present law can be; (2) it would afford little
relief to wild animals, which'are the principal victims of the

38

 

 




 

Legislation 39

trap; and (3) it would not deliver the serious farmer from
the menace to his crOps which is created by the commercial
steel-trapper working on contract.

Question 18 of our questionnaire was “Are steel traps
frequently set in the open?’ ’ The replies suggest that in
many parts of the country the law is observed, the ratio of
“yes’ ’ to ‘ ‘no’ ’ being I :3, but the nature of some of them
indicated that they were based on the naive assumption
that a law has only to be passed in order to be obeyed.
Experience in the trapping counties shows that trappers
break the law quite freely, withoutilet or hindrance, when
it is convenient for them to do so. A law of this kind can-
not be enforced.

The Protection of Animals Act, 1911, prescribes that
‘ ‘spring traps” set for hares or rabbits must be Visited once
a day between sunrise and sunset.

To question 17 “Are any steps taken to enforce the
law as to daily inspection of traps?’ ’ 16 per cent of our
informants answered “yes” and 84 per cent “no.’ ’ The
commercial trapper is, at the height of the season, more
assiduous than the casual trapper in Visiting his traps, but
the law is not and cannot be enforced. Skeletons are not
infrequently found in Old traps, but in very few instances
has the R.S.P.C.A. been able to obtain sufﬁcient evidence
to undertake a prosecution.

The Wild Birds Protection Act, 1904, prohibits the
setting of any “spring trap, gin, or other similar instru-
ment calculated to cause bodily injury to any bird coming
in contact therewith’ ’ on any pole, tree or cairn.

Obviously this law cannot be enforced for lack of access
to private land, and traps specially adapted for setting on
poles are on sale . Replies to question 19 suggest, however,
that the practice of pole-trapping is less common than
it used to be.

The Rabbits Bill has been unsuccessfully introduced
several times in Parliament. It would have empowered
County Councils to take steps for keeping down rabbits
while prohibiting them from using “spring traps” for the
purpose. Ofﬁcials were to be given the right of entry to the

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

40 M an versus Rabbit

property of persons who refused to keep down their rabbits,
and it is probably for this reason that the Bill failed to pass
into law, for the debates showed a strong trend of opinion in
favour of abating the rabbit nuisance.

The only law with regard to trapping which has been
successfully enforced is that which put an end to the use of
the gin for catching human beings. This was the Spring
Guns Act, I827, which prohibited the setting of spring guns
and man-traps except in dwelling—houses at night. It did
not apply to Scotland. This law could be enforced without

 

access to private land, since the disappearance of local
poachers in any number would lead to enquiry. Whether
the Scots still exercise their right of trapping human beings
on their property I am unable to say.

It has become abundantly clear that the only effective
way to deal with the gin is to attack it before it reaches
private property . The University of London Animal
Welfare Society has therefore drafted and is promoting,
with the co-0peration of other bodies interested in the
subject, a parliamentary bill entitled the Gin Traps
(Prohibition) Bill. Clause 1 is as follows :——-

(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act it shall not be
lawful for any person to manufacture, sell or expose for

 

 




 

 

 

Legislation 41

sale, or use, or knowingly to have in his possession or
custody, any gin trap.

(2) In this Act the expression “gin trap” means a
trap so constructed that, in its normal operation, it catches
mammals or birds alive by gripping a limb by means of
jaws, teeth or clamps in such a manner as to cause pain.

(3) If any person acts in contravention of this Act he
shall, in respect of each offence, be liable on summary
conviction, in the case of the ﬁrst offence to a ﬁne not
exceeding ﬁve pounds, and in the case of a second or sub-
sequent offence to a ﬁne not exceeding twenty-ﬁve pounds
or to imprisonment not exceeding three months, or to
both such ﬁne and such imprisonment.

(4) The court before which any proceedings for an
offence under this Act are heard may direct that any gin
traps in relation to which the offence was, or was alleged to
have been, committed shall be forfeited, and any gin traps
so directed to be forfeited shall be destroyed in such manner
as the court may direct.

(5) Nothing in this Act shall be taken to prohibit any
museum, society or institution having possession of any gin
trap solely for the purposeof exhibition.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

APPENDIX A.
EXPERIENCES IN SOUTH WALES.

From Capt. W. H. Buckley, M .F .H ., Carmarthm; Castell
Gorfod, St. C lears, Carmarthenshz're. M ay 27, 1934.

It is deﬁnitely proved down here that wherever the steel
trap is used rabbits increase and eventually swarm.* Rats
have increased and I believe this is due to the shortage of foxes.
A fox likes rats even better than rabbits. I don ’t think weasels
and stoats kill rats as much as a fox , but they certainly kill more
rabbits than a fox as they get at the rabbits ’ nests more and will
always destroy the lot. They will go on slaughtering rabbits,
whereas a fox will only kill one or two a day and those , of course ,
in the open. I was in Pembrokeshire last autumn buying oats
for the hunt horses round Little Haven and the farmer told me
that the trapping has killed off all the foxes and other vermin
and there has been a regular plague of rats which have done a lot
of damage to the corn.

Incidentally, last season, some of the farmers in Pembroke
who are growing sugar beet refused to let the trappers have their
rabbits, which they gave to the unemployed from Haverfordwest
who use ferrets, nets, wires and strong torch lamps at night and
‘ ‘long dogs.’ ’ I believe they absolutely cleared off the rabbits.

I have studied the question for years from all sides, and
there is no doubt that the great increase in rabbits in the trapping
areas is due to (i) total destruction of vermin, with the exception
of foxes, which though scarce, are not quite killed off. (ii)
The old doe rabbits are very cunning, and will not face the traps.
As long as the traps are down they will remain “in ground"
even though they are nearly starving. The same applies to foxes
that have been trapped and have got away—usually minus a
foot. They remain below ground. (iii) The trappers are a
real trade union. They insist on using nothing but traps, and
they deliberately will not catch more than half the rabbit popula-

 

*See the sketch map, p . 18.
42

 




 

 

Experiences in South Wales 43

tion. They will not trap after April when it would be easy to
exterminate the rabbits.

I have abolished the steel trap from the home farm, but I
cannot dictate to my tenants, who are unable to catch their own
rabbits and have to employ a trapper. In 1931-32 and 1932-33
I sold the rabbits to a rabbit-trapper on condition he only used
wires and no traps. I went 50—50 with him. I had £8 in 1932
and £6 in 1933 . He would not stop long enough to catch clean.
This year I gave the rabbits to the unemployed, but wires are of
little use late in the year as the runs through the grass are less
well deﬁned. They caught a lot with ferrets and long nets, but
then they had to stop as there were so many young ones. They
are now coming down with several hundred wires and I hope by
the winter there will be very few rabbits. My tenants’ farms
simply swarm this season and, though they have been trapped,
are worse than mine.

The following casual facts may interest you: Cats are nearly
exterminated in farms and cottages. We have even had cattle
that have had to have tongues amputated . Fifty per cent of the
sheep dogs round here are maimed . I have often shot woodcock
minus a leg from traps and many are caught in traps . Pheasants
and hares are exterminated . Partridges are nearly exterminated;
out of siX shot not long ago in one day three had only one leg!

As master of the Carmarthenshire Foxhounds I only hunt
the trapping areas when I am made to. The rest of this country
is full of wild foxes and there are no rabbits .

From Correspondent N o. B .I . ,* Pembrokesht're, a farmer.

‘ ‘ I quite agree and do conﬁrm the conclusion that the
ULAWS Monograph N 0. 4a sets forth, and it does explain my
experiences fully. And as long as steel traps are allowed the
rabbit population will increase, and the amount of loss to the
farmer yearly is enormous, both to hedges and crops. But more
than the loss to farmers, I beg to draw your attention to the
cruelty to both domestic and wild animals; it is a disgrace to a
country like Great Britain to allow such cruelty. To see so
many dogs, cats and also sheep and lambs on three legs speaks
plainly of the suffering. I saw a dog on the main road one day
trying to reach his home, and to see his condition was enough.
A steel trap was fastened to his hind leg; the bone of the leg was
broken and sticking out through the skin , and the peg which was
attached to the trap had put one of his eyes out. Trusting that
something can be done for the sake of the faithful dog and the cat
to save them from their sufferings, leave alone the enormous
loss by both rabbits and rats.’ ’

*As to the names represented by numbers in this monograph see the
Preface. . .

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

44 M an versus Rabbit

From Correspondent N o. B. 2, Pembrokeshire, a farmer.

The observations in Monograph N 0. 4a are unfortunately
only too true. My farm is 206 acres , with a considerable amount
of waste cliff land; steel traps have been used here, and this year
We are absolutely eaten up with rabbits as a result. We have
caught nearly 700 rabbits since June on the sugar beet alone , and
of course corn and grass ﬁelds have suffered in proportion. In
some areas in D... I know of cases of acres of beet consumed,
representing a loss of hundreds of pounds to the farmers. This
year I have bought ferrets and nets and intend to attack them
this way, as your observations of the ways of trappers is obvious-
Iy true and I can endorse same from bitter experience.

From the Rt. H on . the Earl of Essex, Pembrokeshz're.

Everything that walks is in constant danger. I have had
several hounds caught, and my tame badger came into the
house not long ago with two traps on her. . . The appalling
cruelty of the trapping is a blot on the country. Rabbits are
left for many hours , sometimes days , and can be heard screaming ,
while no other animal is safe. But I do not see that anything
less than a law forbidding entirely the use of the steel trap can
do any good, as the whole trade is on too big a scale now for any
unofﬁcial action or appeal to have any effect.

From Correspondent N 0. 8.7, Pembrokeshz’re, a farmer.

I shall always be glad to help you in any way possible if it is
only to reduce the toll of bird life in this district.

Regarding rabbits on my farm of T., 370 acres, which I
held until four years ago, my annual return from sale of rabbits
was about £100 to £120 nett, the average number caught was
anything up to 3,700, and the banks were all riddled out and it
was useless trying to use them, as they were in the same condi-
tion in 12 months, and the only thing possible was barbed wire
of which I had some miles; the damage they did could not be
estimated, and for the last IO years green crops—mangolds and
swedes—could not be grown as the rabbits cleared them off as
soon as they were hoed. There is no doubt trapping has killed
all the vermin, weasels, stoats and foxes. I did not see a single
fox for 20 years in what was formerly a noted sporting district,
and at periods we were over—run with rats.

Steel traps have been the curse of farming and bird life.
'When I took over T. we could put up as many as 40 partridges
in the same ﬁeld. For the last two years I was there partridges
were conspicuous by their absence. We had not a single bird
[on the farm; this can be accounted for by the birds being caught
after mating. In fact only this summer in crossing our farm

 




 

Experiences in South Wales 45

where traps were down I released two birds while their mates were
fluttering around. Choughs, of which there were a few on the
rocks, were sometimes caught, and other varieties of birds with-
out number.

It would be a boon if steel traps could be prohibited by law, '
without which I am positive their use will never be discontinued
as it is useless two or three farmers netting or using snares
while their neighbours trap, and also you cannot get men to
catch unless they are allowed to use steel traps . I may say that
I never gave more than a. third to the trappers, but it was a
difﬁcult matter to get an honest man, it does not matter what
the terms were.

I quite agree with all said in the pamphlet especially the
matter under headings 8, g and IO.

From Major John Francis, Carmarthen.

On a 10 ,000 acre estate in one ringed fence, by ferrets, long
nets, &c. , we almost cleared the rabbits away in three years,
catching many thousands.

From Percy Thomas, Esq., Coomb and Kylsant Estate Oﬁice,
C-armarthen, to Capt. Buckley, author of ULAWS M ono-
graph N 0 . 4a .

I have read your remarks, together with the other corres-
pondence with regard thereto, with very much interest, and I
think you have covered the whole ground very minutely and
expressively . I do not think there is anything I can add to your
remarks further than that I am of the opinion that you are work-
ing on the right lines, and sincerely hope that all your efforts in
procuring a Parliamentary Bill to eliminate steel trapping will
be successful. I shall be only too pleased, as Agent for Lord
Kylsant, to co-operate and help in any way I can.

From C orrespondeat N 0. B .3 , Cardiganshz're, a farmer.

I am entirely in agreement with all that is said in ULAWS
Monograph No. 4a in regard to the trapping of rabbits, as I have
found through bitter experience the effects of trapping on neigh-
bouring farms. Though we can control them fairly well in the
middle of the farm—*by shooting and ferreting, etc .——-—we have
to suffer considerably around the boundary fences, where trap-
ping is systematically carried out outside year after year. Our
losses are great , but the losses on the trapped farms are heavier by
far. One of the best farms in our neighbourhood has been eaten
up almost entirely by rabbits. It cannot be rented, and when
it was offered for sale this year, not a single bid was made for it .

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

46 M an versus Rabbit

F mm C arrespondent N o. B .5 , Cardiganshire, a farmer.

It gives me great pleasure to conﬁrm the conclusions which
you set in your monograph to do away with the steel traps.
Since we began trapping the rabbits have increased rapidly.
About 20 years ago we had the ﬁrst trapper here and he only had
from 40 to 50 rabbits. This year he had over I ,000 rabbits , and
my farm is only 60 acres in extent , and they are now worse than
ever. They play a big havoc with our corn crops. We are none
the better to plant cabbages , carrots, etc. , as the rabbits will eat
them away in a night. The price we had for them last winter
was 3d. a head and out of that we had to provide board and
lodgings for the trapper. It took him over ﬁve weeks to catch
them and you can see there was not much left for us.

I agree that the sooner the better to do away with the steel
traps and to have some other method. My opinion is that
ferreting would be the best.”

 

 

 




 

APPENDIX B.
EXPERIENCES IN CORNWALL.
From Correspondent No. M. 11, june 5, 1934.

I now give you the story of my rabbit experiences in North
Cornwall. I came here in 1924, bought some land and settled
down to farm and live in the country, but having lived for 3 or 4
years previously in North Devon I realised that these damnable
traps were an institution and that it was a big thing to try and
ﬁght them. I therefore allowed the trappers to catch my rabbits ,
which were then moderately numerous.

From 1927 in order to preserve foxes and pheasants I have
been in the habit of taking most of the rabbit-trapping in my
immediate neighbourhood and employing 3 trappers all
winter; being swayed by the trappers and by the numbers of
rabbits, I have been up till lately of the opinion that in this
country traps were the only way of dealing with rabbits. I
will tell you later in this letter why I have altered my opinion.

During the winter 1931-32 I had a lazy head trapper and he
and his 2 underlings did not catch the rabbits properly, with
the result that during the summer of 1932 rabbits were swarming;
in October, 1932, I engaged 3 different and very experienced
trappers from about IO miles away. They worked with 600 or
700 gins and did their work thoroughly and well, their best
catch one night being 262 rabbits. They kept on through the
Winter doing all the ground twice over and assured me they had
caught almost all the rabbits in the place and I stupidly belleved
them. Summer and autumn , 1933 , came and my land was
again crawling with rabbits, so in September, 1933 I engaged
3 different and very skilful trappers with I ,000 gins, but Just
before they started I saw 2 stoats on one farm and, being sure
the trappers would catch them, I bought I ,000 snares and told
the 3 men to try what they could do with them. They tried
their best for IO days and caught so few that they said 1t was
hopeless (the reason of course being that they did not under-
stand snares) so that I had to say, use your I ,000 gms. They
started off on a 7o-acre farm and in one week caught 975 rabblts .
They worked on all winter and caught great numbers, and 1n
March they returned to the 70 acre farm mentioned above and
did it again most thoroughly. I will admit it is a very favourlte
place for rabbits, so I told them to put in a lot of time there and
catch every rabbit they could. When they ﬁnished towards the

47

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

48 Mam versus Rabbit

end of March they assured me they had caught as many as it was
possible to catch , and in fact almost every rabbit. But I remem-
bered the end of the trapping the previous season and therefore
did not believe them , although no rabbit could be seen. I then
started 2 men on the 70 acre farm , one man a cripple using snares
and the other an old navy pensioner with ferrets, and in 9 days.
these two men caught I37 rabbits of which 104 were does and
40 of them had one or two legs snipped off. Now this was an
eye—opener to me because I37 rabbits could not have come in
from anywhere, for on two sides the land is bounded by a large
river and the other sides are moorland not very favourable to
rabbits. These two men are still snaring and ferreting and up
to May 30th have caught 687 rabbits in the land that the trappers
assured me had been thoroughly cleared.

Now the 687 rabbits have been caught on about I ,000 acres
of land occupied by myself and all more or less together, and I
am glad to say that wherever I go now in the evening when every-
thing is quiet, say 9 or IO p.m . , I cannot see a single rabbit and
in fact I honestly believe they have been really and properly
cleared. I now have 2 more men (making 4 in all) with ferrets.
and snares and am starting on about another I,000 acres of my
neighbours ’ farms,where I always buy the rabbits , and now these
farmers are so sick of rabbits that they have asked me to send my
men to catch them . This, of course, is an expense to me, but I
am going to try and clear them over a large area so that they
will not travel back to my land when I have cleared it.

You ask me for ﬁgures, so I give you this in addition. I
have 20 acres of detached grass land, about 2 miles away; this.
and the adjoining land has been thoroughly trapped twice. In
April I saw about 20 rabbits there one evening, so I sent my
two men off next day and they found so many they had to stay
there a week , and on the 20 acres they caught II7 rabbits.

I reckon any rabbit, however small, caught in May would
be a breeder before the summer is over.

A good trapper who Visits his traps twice a day, and shifts
them all twice a week , does not catch many foxes, but they catch
all the cats and all the dogs that move; they nearly all set the-
trap with spring handle covered but the plate uncovered by
earth.

Towards the end of the summer I will send you a complete
account of my ferreting expenses over an area of about 2,000
acres and I hope I shall be in a position to ask you or anyone
else to come and see if you can ﬁnd a rabbit. This time last
year they were here in thousands, and I can now or at any time
take you to any and every farmer of consequence in this district
who will tell you that rabbits are now a plague and that this
plague has come about solely because of the steel trap.

 

 

 




 

 

Experiences in Cornwall 49

From Correspondent N o. M. 6, a farmer.

We, my father and self, farm 200 odd acres and never allow
any steel traps to catch the rabbits, but encourage all vermin
such as stoats, weasels, cats, foxes and hedgehogs; the result
is we have very few rabbits. My father-in-law X., Esq., of
Herefordshire, has 2,000 odd acres and he never allows steel
traps , and there are very few rabbits . What there are they catch
with long nets and ferreting. Of course, in the rabbit-infested
areas they have killed nearly all the natural enemies to the
rabbit. One trapper told me he killed 23 hedgehogs in one
winter. Well they eat a lot of young rabbits. In these areas
most cats have only 3 feet.

I consider the farmer amateur trapper is the worst, as he
does not look at his traps, and sets them on tops of banks or
anywhere where it is least trouble.

From Correspondent N o. B. 6, a farmer.

I personally, and I think the majority of farmers in this
district, would much prefer to do away with the ‘gins’ and I
consider that they are detrimental in every way to keeping down
the number of rabbits, and I agree more or less with everything
contained in your pamphlet ULAWS Monograph N0. 42..

From Correspondent No. M .7, a farmer.

What methods do I recommend for getting rabbits? Gun,
ferreting, nets of various kinds including long net.

Is it true that the long or poachers’ net does not work in
Cornwall? No, it does work well in Cornwall. I have used it
with others both in hilly and level land (not in the capacity of
poacher) with splendid results.

As to the argument used against you on the grounds that
they are a pest—”Without the steel trap we shall be overrun
with rabbits”—their arguments have not the facts for their
case. The steel trap catches all the rabbit’s enemies, conse-
quently they multiply. I have seen it many times, in fact,
the last place I farmed I prohibited the use of traps, and rabbits
were no great worry to me. I am positive if the use of the steel
trap were made illegal for a few years rabbits would be a negli-
gible quantity.

“Rabbits a valuable crop.” Absurd! Cost many times
more than their food value.

Argument ‘ ‘ Without the steel trap we can ’t make a proﬁt . ’ ’
This is more often used by the professional trapper, who seeks
his own end by leaving a good many for breeding another year.

From Correspondent No. M . IO, A Master of F ox-honnds.
I agree entirely with Buckley’s excellent paper. (ULAWS

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

50 M an versus Rabbit

Monograph No. 4a). That the pest of rabbits is entirely due to
traps having destroyed all their natural enemies has been evi-
dent to many people for some time. As a Master of Hounds I
have seen much of the cruelty of these traps. For the last three
seasons 20 per cent of the foxes killed by my hounds had already
been crippled by traps. A fox or badger will draw the trap and
by the brightness of the steel one can tell how many miles he
has dragged it either to be mercifully killed by hounds or to lie
up and die. I have myself found skeletons of foxes fast in a
trap a few feet down an earth. Almost certainly many badgers
drag traps to the bottom of deep earths.

Visitors to Cornwall have remarked that they never see
any of our natural Wild animals. Down here traps are left
uncovered in the open, and until they are stopped by law the
countryside will be ruined. Farms will be over-run with rab-
bits. Hedges and crops will be ruined.

 




 

APPENDIX C.
EXPERIENCES IN DEVONSHIRE.
From I. A . Devem'sh, Esq. , Goulds, Staverton, South Devon.

I live in the midst of one of the chief rabbit-trapping areas
in the kingdom. I have been here for more than a quarter of a
century and am well acquainted with the farmers, the sports-
men and the trappers of the neighbourhood. My opinion is
that nothing has been achieved or will be achieved by the policy
of attempting to promote the discovery of substitutes for the
steel trap while leaving the use of the steel trap itself unassailed .
I believe that if the people of this country, including those who
consume the rabbits for food, realized the torture inﬂicted on the
victims of this device they would not tolerate the legality of it .

My experience amply conﬁrms your claim that rabbit-
trapping is responsible for increasing the number of rabbits.
’(1 do not however quite agree with your View that this is because
it is in the interests of the trappers not to exterminate them.
Nor do I think, and you do not suggest it, that the farmers
(desire to preserve the rabbits for proﬁt). I know areas where
rabbits were scarce before trapping was introduced, and since
then the rabbit population has increased enormously. In spite
of vast numbers being trapped the loss and nuisance caused by
the living rabbits is more considerable than the proceeds of the
:sale of the trapped ones. The banks are riddled with burrows
.and are costly to maintain.

Everyone here familiar with the subject knows that trapping
destroys the natural enemies of the rabbit, the stoat and weasel
and the cats, and thus upsets the balance of nature.

The trapper works on a farm for a few days While his catch
is remunerative, and then he takes his traps to another farm.
This is not because he wishes to preserve the remainder, but
because it does not pay him to stay.

The natural enemies of the rabbit would work continuously
:and prevent the rabbits from breeding to excess. Although
their methods are red in tooth and claw they are less cruel and
more effective than the steel trap.

The above facts are so well known in this district that many
farmers are now abandoning their old custom of having their
rabbits trapped.

I can cite the case of some of my close neighbours, via—~—

SI

 

 

 




.Tt-.._——--______’m__ __~_~_:_ .. __

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

52 Man versus Rabbit

Mr. . . .* He has given up rabbit trapping and allows only the
use of the gun and ferrets with nets. So has Mr. . . .;* also I
believe Mr. . . .,* also Mr. . . I know a trapper named X*'
living at Staverton, who told me that he had given up steel
traps and that he was doing well by catching rabbits with ferrets
and nets.

As you say, it cannot be maintained, however, that any
artiﬁcial method is usually as deadly as the steel trap, and for
this reason the critical point to observe is that as long as steel
traps are legal trappers are bound by competition to use them
whereas if the traps were forbidden by law they would all be on
equal terms to use other methods.

I have conversed with several trappers (who are a hard-work-
ing, intelligent and very respectable class) and they all agree that
they do not like the steel trap and would use other means if all did
the same.

I hope that the local evidence I have offered may assist you
to expose the fallacy that steel traps are necessary to keep rabbits
down .

I have called on Mr. . . . He has not used steel traps for
many years and his farm is kept remarkably free from rabbits.
He has two sons who shoot them and a man comes out every
Saturday afternoon to ferret and net his burrows at the proper
time of the year. His brother-in—law, Mr. . . ., of the adjoining
farm, also does not trap and his farm is fairly free from rabbits,
so that the difﬁculty of having a neighbour whose land is in-
fested does not occur relatively in these two cases.

The rabbit ’3 natural enemies have not been exterminated in
these farms. Mr. . . . told me that he had seen several stoats
and that he had now 5 foxes on his land, not one of which would
have been left if he had trapped. He told me that one of his
brothers has a farm close to large woods, and another has neigh-
bours whose land swarms with rabbits. Under these circum-
stances he thought it would not be possible for his brothers to
protect their crops without resort to steel traps.

It appears that there is a sort of vicious circle in this trap-
ping. All the farniers here know and admit (verbally) that steel
traps have greatly increased the pest , and yet to hold their own
individually most of them say they are compelled to trap.

From Correspondent N o. M .2 , a trapper and farmer.

I have been using spring traps to catch rabbits for the last
44 years, having been taught the way when leaving school, so
claim to know a little about the use of the gin.

For the ﬁrst 20 years I averaged about 4,000 rabbits 3.

 

*As to these and other suppressed names, see the Preface.

 




 

Experiences in Devonshz’re 5 3;

year, but the numbers have grown considerably in late years,
and the average for the last 3 years has been 9,000 or more, and
this seems by appearance now to be greatly exceeded next season ,,
which plainly shows that spring trapping alone does not keep.
rabbits down.

‘ I think I might say that I have been fairly careful in putting
down the traps as I have been mostly on my own land, but even
so I have seen a tremendous lot of animals crippled for life, and
can safely say there is more cruelty in one night ’s trapping than
in two years shooting and all other sports put together.

The principal reason why I continue to trap is the market
value of rabbits, as dealers all make a difference of at least 2d.
on a rabbit , and for this reason, if nothing else, I should like to.)
see the steel trap made illegal. I am quite sure if this was done
that rabbits could be kept down, as by the use of the gin every'
thing that destroys them gets caught. I have kept a careful
account of the last three seasons’ trapping which shows plainly
the different creatures that get caught.

The cruelty is very great indeed. I am very particular in.
attending to the trap at least twice during the day, and often
once about one hour after it gets dark, but when I am going
around and see others that often leave rabbits to stay for days at
a time in the trap it makes the matter much more cruel. My
opinion is that there is only one way to stop it , and that is to do
away with the gin altogether.

You can make what use you like of this letter and the en-
closed list and if you would like any further information on the
matter, I shall be pleased to forward it.

THE LIST OF THE LAST THREE SEASONS, TRAPPING.

I931‘32 I932-33 I933“34

Rabbits ..... 7892 8890 9240
Stoats ..... 31 19 28
Cats ..... 13 IO 25
Hedgehogs ..... 19 12
Birds ..... 200 240 312

Also numerous other creatures such as foxes, badgers, dogs ,
etc., which I don’t enter on the list.

From Correspondent N 0. M. 3 , a well known estate manager.

Rabbits for human consumption should be produced on
warrens or on waste land, and should be exterminated on farms
where they do untold damage to crops, fences, banks and young
trees. The gin trap will not exterminate rabbits—it leaves a
lot behind and shifts others on to other neighbouring land from
which they return later.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

54 M an versus Rabbit

On one estate I manage I made an effort to exterminate
rabbits by ferreting and netting only, and this was successful:
one of the tenants told me afterwards that my activities had
meant an extra rick of hay and an extra stack of corn to him.

Few farmers realise how much rabbits cost them every
year—~the small return they bring in when dead bears no relation
to the time wasted trapping and shooting, and the cost of the
damage they do to crops, etc.

If you can persuade farmers and land-owners that the exter-
mination of rabbits on agricultural land and woodland can only
be achieved by systematic ferreting and netting and the use of
snares, you will go a long way towards stopping the use of

traps .

From Correspondent N o. B . 4, a Devonshz’re hotel proprietor.

There is not the slightest doubt that the use of the spring
trap for catching rabbits does not decrease them, but increases
them tremendously. This information is from my personal

experience .

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

APPENDIX D.
EXPERIENCES IN VARIOUS COUNTIES.

From CorrespondentNo. B. 31 , Somerset, on oﬁicer of the N .F .U.

There are very few rabbits now, and to keep these under
the farmers arrange shooting parties.

From Correspondent No. B. 18, Berkeley, (Glos.), a farmer.

Mine is essentially a hunting area and the farmers are a.
“sporting lot.” Shooting is enjoyed, trapping or snaring are
practically unknown, foxes are plentiful, and since the preser-
vation of game has so considerably lessened, stoats, weasels,
etc., have increased. There is a “balance of power’ ’——the
number of rabbits are not too many or otherwise. I may add I
quite agree with your point—the steel trap is decidedly not the
ideal method of exterminating superﬂuous rabbits.

From Correspondent N o. B. 16, Llandz'nam, M ontgomeryshz're,
a farmer.

The rabbit problem is not a serious one in this locality.
Steel traps are only used by the game-keepers in their charges.
of covers, etc., for killing smaller vermin. The most popular
method of catching rabbits in these parts is by ferreting and
snares, but the latter are not allowed on property where game is.
reared if they come under the notice of the keepers.

The selling of the right to trap has never been adopted to
my knowledge in these particular neighbourhoods (southern
half of the county). Personally I engage a rabbit-catcher from
now on on a 50-50 basis and he makes a few good catches, and
goes round from farm to farm. He soon knows from experience
which are the most renumerative ones .

From Correspondent N o. B. I7, Llanfyllz’n, M ontgomeryshtre,

a farmer.

I quite agree with the abolition of the steel trap, I haven ’t
seen it in use in this district, we use snares (wires), nets of all.
kinds, and ferrets. This part of the country is hilly and rather
rough in places .

From Correspondent N o. B. 19, M onmonthshtre, an oﬁicer of
the N .F .U.

My experience is (and I travel South Wales and Monmouth-
shire regularly) that there are not as many rabbits as previous

55

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

:56 M an versus Rabbit

to 1914. In Monmouthshire steel traps are never used, though
in some parts of Breconshire a few are used still. The practice
in this part is to deal with rabbits with gun and nets. I myself
‘was farming a large farm where in 1910-1915 you could trap
2,000 to 3 ,000, but to—day you could not get 100 throughout the

‘Winter .

From Correspondent No . B. 12 , S taﬁ’ordshz’re, a nnrserymcm.

I do not use either snares or steel traps for rabbits. A few
rabbits will do a great deal of harm in a nursery, but we rely on
gun and ferrets to keep them down, and being in an industrial
district no doubt a few are poached. I consider steel traps a
most cruel and inhuman method of destroying them.

From Correspondent N o. B. Io, Nuneaton, Warwickshire; a
farmer.
The steel trap is not used in this district for the catching 0f
rabbits. Where there is any quantity, the long nets are prin-
ucipally used, the other alternatives being snaring or shooting.

Frorn Correspondent N o. B. 33, near Rugby, Warwiekshz're.

On my farm of 520 acres—on the whole heavy land and
therefore not predisposed for rabbit—breeding—I have very few
rabbits at all. I am strongly against allowing them to increase
vowing to the damage they do , and I keep them in check by allow-
ing some men the privilege of ferreting and shooting them.
am also in a great hunting country and there are a quantity of
foxes about which no doubt take a toll of the rabbits, and as far
as I know there has not been a trap on the farm during the past
ﬁfteen years.

From Correspondent N o. M. 5, Snﬁolk; a head keeper.

I can thoroughly assure you that rabbits cannot be cleared
by trapping alone, as a great many rabbits break out of the
holes as soon as a few rabbits get caught . Also, a lot remain in
the earth until the traps are removed, then make their escape .

Trapping should always be carried out as it cleans up stoats,
weasels and rats. .

From Correspondent N o. B. 30, Tattershall, Lines.

I do not think that steel traps are used about here in any
quantity; in fact, I believe the usual method employed is to
dig them out. Some ferrets are used, and at harvest time as
many as possible are caught. I am only aware of one rabbit
catcher within a radius of 4 miles, so you can estimate that
they are not very numerous. '

 

 

 




 

Experiences in various counties 57

From Correspondent No. B. 35, Yorkshire, North. Riding; a
solicitor.

I am in receipt of your letter of the 3Ist ult. enclosing three
copies of a monograph headed N 0. 4a. In accordance with your
"request I have taken the time and trouble to read this monograph,
and I am glad to say that I have seldom had the misfortune to
read such utter rubbish.

It seems to me to be a great pity that you and those asso-
ciated with you cannot ﬁnd something both more useful and
more humane for the object of your activities.

I am well experienced with regard to the matter at issue,
and I think your reasoning is entirely false, and that, if one of
your endeavours is to prevent cruelty, you entirely fail in that
purpose.

From Correspondent No .B. 13 , Ackrig , Yorkshire, North Riding;
a farmer .

Snaring and ferreting are practically the only methods
adopted up here on account of the heavy sheep stocks we carry,
and the danger ensuing to livestock from steel traps.

From Correspondent N o. B. 34, Yorkshire, West Riding; a
solicitor.

I do know personally on one farm that the farmer makes the
whole of his rent , which I understand is £400 per annum, by trap-
ping rabbits. Dealers in Leeds and Bradford Markets will buy
trapped rabbits but will refuse to have those which are shot.
The price paid in the North for rabbits is, in my opinion , a pay-
ing proposition. The market demands snared (sic) rabbits, and
it is undoubtedly a source of income which the farmers cannot
ignore, especially when snaring, ferreting and netting at various
parts of the year shOw a very small return.

So far as my personal experience is concerned , it has not been
brought to my notice that any serious damage has been done to
banks by rabbits.

From Correspondent No. B. 15, Kirkhamgate, Yorkshire, West

Riding, a farmer.

In reply to your letter re rabbits, we are not very much
troubled with these animals in our district. It is only occasion-
.ally that catches take place hereabouts, and then I am pleased
to say that ferrets and nets are used.

From Correspondent N o. B. 32, Escrick, Yorkshire, East Riding;
a farmer.

Steel traps for rabbits are not used except for small vermin
in this locality. It is the custom to use ferrets to clear the holes

 

 

 

 




58 Man versus Rabbit

during the winter months. This is the most effective way of
dealing with them and the most proﬁtable.

From the Rt. H on. Frances, Countess of Warwick, Easton Lodge,
Dunmow, Essex.

 

The steel trap is not, I am glad to say, generally in use in
this part of the country. In fact, to the best of my knowledge,
it is hardly used at all. The methods most in favour are
ferreting and shooting; most of the farmers and land-owners in
the district regard the rabbit as a pest, and are anxious to keep
the number in check.

I have always forbidden the use of the steel trap on my own
estate here, where between 4,500 and 5,000 rabbits are caught
every year. Our method is to use a line—ferret to locate the
rabbits , and then dig them out. Although this entails a certain

, amount of labour, it is well compensated for by the number
taken, and the fact that the burrows are cleaned right out. I
am sure this method is far better than using the purse net.
Rabbits often refuse to bolt when a ferret is put down, but take
refuge in a dead-end of the burrow instead; if the ferret ﬁnds it is
unable to reach the rabbit’s head, it will often leave it un-
molested to seek another animal in some other part of the warren .
Sometimes as many as ﬁve or six rabbits will cluster together
like this at the end of a burrow, and so escape; others, less
fortunate , will be driven out , and the warren will then be left,
under the delusion that it has been cleared. Digging—out is
well worth the trouble involved; it is , I think , the most efﬁcient
and thorough way of dealing with rabbits.

Whilst I think that the long net is very sound in principle,
it is not really practicable to use it here on account of the nature
of the land. The rabbit warrens are not concentrated in one
spot, but are dotted about all over the park; consequently, when
disturbed, the animals have ample opportunity (of which they
invariably avail themselves) to take cover close at hand. I
think this applies fairly generally in this district , although there
are probably a number of spots, such as woods and banks where
large numbers of rabbits are congregated, where the long net
could be used advantageously.

I have tried both the Lewis snare and the humane knotted
snare, but both entail a certain amount of time and care in
setting and subsequent Visiting; taking into consideration the
comparative numbers captured, digging-out is a far more efﬁcient
and satisfactory method, and, I think , preferable from a humane
point of View. Rabbits taken by digging-out can be killed
quickly and mercifully, and there is the advantage that, owing

‘ to their clean condition , they can be more readily marketed, and

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

Experiences in various counties 59

ietch better prices than those containing shot, or those whose
legs are mutilated by steel traps.

I regard the steep trap as a relic of the dark ages; probably
few members of the general public will ever realize the suffering
it inﬂicts on its Victims. I consider that the day is long overdue
when its use should be made illegal.

From the Rt. Hon. Lord Rayleigh, F.R.S., Terlr'ng Place,
Chelrnsford, Essex.

I have made enquiry and so far as I have been able to dis-
cover, steel spring rabbit traps are not used on my estate. I do

not express any opinion on the general question, not having
gone into it.

From Correspondent N o. B. II, Steynz'ng, Sussex ; a farmer.

On this farm, I am glad to say, I am not troubled to any
extent with rabbits. The few about (and they are few) I am
able to keep down by ferrets and gun. Most of my trouble with
rabbits is from the few which come from neighbouring land to
feed and return. We use a few snares for these. No steel
traps are used.

From Correspondent No. B. 14, near Canterbury, Kent; a farmer.

I have had no experience of steel traps for rabbits, but I
can say that I have almost entirely cleared my farm of rabbits
by snares and shooting. I am absolutely against steel traps as
they are cruel to vermin and dangerous to dogs and cats.

From Correspondent N 0. B 8, near Dover, Kent; afarmer.

I presume that you recommend the abolition of this trap
on account of the cruelty of the method of killing rabbits, and
I entirely agree with you, it should be absolutely abolished by
law at once.

The trouble with rabbit catchers anywhere, in my opinion,
is this, they always have another year to think about, and they
let the does go. My experience is that they catch as many does
as bucks, but they let them go again, and this is where the
abominable cruelty of it comes in. My brother assured me that
in Australia all does in young were released; the catcher would
even break off their legs and let them go.

I have caught rabbits around here with only two whole
legs , the others were completely healed over, and they have been
in quite good condition, but they must have suffered untold
agony. I should say that a rabbit-catching man, using traps
during the day and snares or nets at night, could almost exter-

minate rabbits, but on account of the dreadful cruelty of the

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

60 Man versus Rabbit

trap there is no need for it and it should be abolished. As you.
say, all sorts of animals get. caught; one of my brother’s ﬁrst
catches was a neighbour’s dog, and I can hear it howling now.

I can tell you another reason why steel traps should be
abolished—they are used by game-keepers for catching foxes in
the same way in the holes. Last winter the keeper on this)
estate , who kills all foxes as soon as they make their appearance,
traced a fox to a large hole in the wood near here. He set two»
traps well inside the mouth of the hole, and then pushed sticks
in the ground close together making it impossible for the fox
to come out, even if it dodged the traps. Day after day he-
went there, but the traps remained unsprung ; the fox knew
they were there. After about a week it came into the trap, and
this man told me with a grin that he had known them to remain
in the earth three weeks ‘ ‘ and his back was like a bit of wire.’ ’

I have set up wires for rabbits, and sometimes caught
hedgehogs and squirrels, and cats, but these can always be lib-
erated none the worse for it, but traps nearly always cause broken
legs and much suffering.

From Sidney E. Harris, Esq., agent to Lord Cornwallis; various
counties.

I can certify that all rabbits can be cleared from any estate
Without the use of steel traps. I have had the management of"
estates and have farmed in the counties of Devon, Herefordshire,
Gloucestershire and Kent and speak from experience.

Re Archerstown, Thurles, Tipperary ; from Correspondent N o. M .,
4, a veterinary surgeon in Ireland.

Archerstown, a large country place of about four hundred
acres, was alive with rabbits during the life—time of any one
living. Trapping went on year after year, a man being em—
ployed to do nothing else in the season. Thousands were killed.
each year, also cats, foxes, stoats, etc. Also some dogs. Rats
were very numerous as the house was in part an old castle.
Poachers had a bad time.

But after the Great War, when poachers were not inter-v
fered with, they cleared every rabbit out of the place, and there
have been few or no rabbits there for the last ten years.

 

 




 

 

APPENDIX E.
EXPERIENCES IN AUSTRALIA.

Some extracts from “The Rabbit Menace in New South Wales,’ ’
a summarized report published by the Department of Agri-
culture, N ew South Wales, 1928 .

Page I5. In ten years from 1915 to 1924, 124% millions of
frozen rabbits and hares (nearly all rabbits) were exported from
New South Wales, and 157-12- millions from the whole of Australia .
During the same period 540 millions of skins were exported from
New South Wales and 717 millions from the whole of Australia .

Page 8. The vastly increased production of land where-
rabbits have been eradicated is also dealt with in the full report ,
and a number of speciﬁc cases are given. These indicate very
clearly how small a thing to the country at large is any rabbit:
trade, present or even potential as fas as can be seen, compared
to the increased value of the land for livestock and crop produc-
tion when the rabbit is absent.

Page 10. One of the simplest and most used methods of
rabbit destruction is that of trapping. This has had a wide
vogue in recent times (1928) because of the great increase in the
value of rabbits’ skins. Many a method may be more satis-
factory and far cheaper to follow, but does not give the hunter
the skins he is after. . . Landowners who are bent upon the
complete eradication of rabbits do not make a practice of using
the steel traps , though most of them are not averse to the pres~
ence of a trapper on their properties. The trapper, working for
a living, does not exterminate the rabbits. It would not pay
him to do so. He can be likened to a man working a crop of
lucerne—he cuts down the crop to a certain extent , knowing
that the healthy plants are there and that he may shortly come
back and take yet another crop.

Page 13. [In a paragraph on the cost of rabbit destruction
by various methods , the cheapest method is said to be fencing in
* of infested areas followed by removal of rabbit harbour, fumi-
gation , and extinction of burrows. Calcium cyanide, giving
“cyanogas,” is recommended as the best fumigant. Traps are
not mentioned as a means for extermination.]

Page 15. The importance of the rabbit trade in promoting
certain methods of destruction is here emphasised. The Wide-
spread use of the steel ‘ ‘gin’ ’ trap. . . is to be traced to the value
of the skins rather than to the particular utility of these methods
as a means of permanent eradication.

6r

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

62 M an versus Rabbit

Page 15. It is obvious that the experience of the State
during the development of the rabbit trade is quite opposed to
the view held by some that with increased prices [for skins]
the rabbit would disappear. The economist, .even knowing
nothing of the rabbit trade, will see that such is an unsound
argument in any case; while the man on the land realises that
it is a most detrimental thing to a widespread campaign for the
complete eradication of the rabbit, because so many are lulled
into a false sense of security by the efforts'of the rabbiters.

Page 39. In the early days of wholesale rabbit destruction,
the trap formed only a small part. Increased use of the steel
trap has not been because this method was more destructive to
rabbits than other methods, but because it furnished the best
results to the modern ‘ ‘rabbiter.’ ’ It will be evident to all that
methods of fumigation, however effective they may be in re-
moving the pest in any district , can hardly suit the aims of the
trapper, working to obtain the skins or carcases, or perhaps
both.

Page 65. The screams of the entrapped rabbits gripped
by the steel jaws of the ‘ ‘gin’ ’ have much to do with frightening
rabbits away from one part of a run to another, thus rendering
it more difﬁcult to eradicate the pest.

From Correspondent No. M. 10; a Student of the University of
London, King’s College.

From 1925 to 1929 I was actively interested in pastoral and
agricultural industries in Australia and have had some experi;
ence of coping with the well-known rabbit pest . My experience
relates chieﬂy to New South Wales, but the following remarks
are quite general.

The position of the land-owners is that they must keep their
land as free from rabbits as is practicable. This involves, in
badly infested areas, the erection and maintenance of rabbit-
proof boundary fences and their gates. All available harbour
within the boundary is destroyed and warrens are dug out or
otherwise rendered untenable. These operations concluded,
periodical inspection by the station—hands usually sufﬁces to
keep the country reasonably clean. The digging-out and
destruction of surface harbour is contracted out and an agree-
ment is come to as to the disposal of the rabbits caught. The
English system whereby a man pays for the right to trap over
an area has never been adopted so far as my experience goes.

In exterminating rabbits the following factors have to be
considered: (a) the nature of the terrain, whether deep soil or
thin with outcropping rocks; (b) the amount of available surface
harbour such as hollow timber, standing and fallen; (c) the food
and water supply of rabbits. The contract price varies in

 




 

 

 

Experiences in Australia I 63

accordance with these factors and is calculated so that the con-
tractor should earn at least the minimum award wage for agri-
cultural workers. Thus it may vary from 25. to 305. per acre
in Australian currency, the English equivalent being at present
25 per cent less.

Methods adopted vary with the terrain, but digging out is
satisfactory where warrens in deep arenaceous or argillaceous
soils are concerned. With thin soils and outcropping rocks
digging out is unsatisfactory as the zone of decomposition along
joints is apt to be deep and warrens are very difﬁcult in such
circumstances to dig out. Recourse is then had to gassing the
burrows with various compounds which with the moisture in
the ground will generate a suitable gas (e .g., cyanogen) after
ﬁrst stopping up all exits or entrances. Care on the part of the
operator is necessary as the gases have rapid toxic effects.
This method may be employed over any terrain. Hollow and
fallen timber which affords harbourage is ﬁred. With regard to
digging-out operations, the warrens are not ﬁlled in until the
letter of the contract, that no pockets or side shutes remain, is
satisﬁed. Whatever the method of removing burrows or render-
ing them untenable, periodical inspection is necessary in case
fresh burrows, or old ones re-opened, appear. Trapping may
be carried on by trappers at the same time. The pelts are the
usual consideration in these operations and the carcases are des-
tro ed. '

yTrappers trap for a livelihood and the keeping down of the
pest is of no interest to them. They may trap either for the
carcase or for the pelt , dependent upon relative market prices and
distance from a freezing factory. Their methods vary according
to the prospect of their area, the nature of the terrain, and
Whether their object is pelt or carcase . For carcases steel traps,
generally of the I.X.L. or Grifﬁths patterns, are used and the
number set is dependent upon the man. Men digging out on
wages or trapping for themselves will turn kittens and pregnant
does loose.

For pelts traps may be used or various types of poison trails
may be laid, strychnine being the usual poison employed. Baits
are thistle root cut into cubes or pollard balls. The latter may
be laid down from a specially constructed poison—cart ; the
rabbits are found on the trail in the morning. All of these
methods are utilized by land-owners and their employees for
controlling country after digging-out or similar operations, the
intensity being dependent upon the state of the area with regard
to rabbits (whether migratory out of less favourable areas or
resident upon the area) and the time at the employee’s disposal.

 

 

 

 




APPENDIX F.
SEX RATIO IN CAPTURED RABBITS.

From Correspondent N o. M. 11, Cornwall; a land—owner and

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

farmer.
Rabbits caught from March 31st, 1934, to June 30th, 1934, after the
steel-trappers had ﬁnished their work and had caught
about 10,000 rabbits.
Deduct
Date Farm and Days and Total small Total Old Old
acres number rabbits rabbits old does bucks
of men (sex un- rabbits
known)
Mar. A _ 14% days 8
31 to 70 acres (2 men not 131 31 100 ‘ 73 27
April full time)
I7
April B 28 days ,
18 to 75 acres (2 men not 266 54 212 162 50
May full time)
19
April C 17 days
30 to 50 acres (1 man 88 4o 48 4o 8
May full time)
18
April D 12 days
30 to 200 acres (1 man 75 4o 35 3o 5
May (part of) full time)
18
560 165 395 305 90
May D 31 days
20 to 200 acres 4 men (2 564 341 223 I58 65
June of them
30 part time
Total rabbits from Mar. 31
to June 30 1124 506 618 ' 463 155
The foregoing ﬁgures relate to rabbits caught on my farms-
by ferrets, nets and snares since the trappers left at the end of
March, 1934. I have divided them into two lots , March 31 to May

 

19 and from May 19 to June 30 , because before about the middle
of May the sex of the young rabbit bOrn in January, February
and March cannot be distinguished, and so the ﬁrst ﬁgures show
best the sex ratio of the old rabbits that have escaped the traps.

 

*As to the locations of these farms see the Preface.

64

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

Sex ratio in captured rabbits 65

After that date some of the young rabbits can be sexed and the
ﬁgures are less interesting, as I understand from my experienced
head rabbit -catcher that you can distinguish the sex of the young
bucks a good deal sooner than the young does. All this leads one
to suppose that the predominance of does over bucks occurs
because the steel gin catches very few does.

You will see that I have now (June 30) caught II24 rabbits
(and more since, of which I have no numbers yet) on about 600
or 700 acres , and I am sure it is only due to this that I have been
able to bring in at least 25 per cent more stock on to the farm
this summer in spite of the dry weather; and I have also sold all
but 25 of my sheep fat when the price is good, instead of as in
previous years having to keep them till end of August or Septem—
her when the price has always dropped. My sheep are Cheviot
and some cross—bred horned Scotch. A lot of young sheep
always die during the winter and I read in some paper about the
amount of sheep that died in Wales last winter, which as you
know is over-run with rabbits; I am sure sheep cannot live in the
winter on grass alone, as we expect them to do, if the virtue has
been taken out of it by rabbits. In the wet country of Devon
the rabbits spread the liver ﬂuke which almost wiped out the
sheep in those parts the winter before last.

You will see that these men ferreting only averaged about 4%
rabbits per day each, but you must remember that ferrets kill
great numbers of young underground.

I have splendid crops of corn, and just as good on the head-
land as in the middle of ﬁeld.

I met a farmer last night who lives about IO miles from here;
he said ‘ ‘ I got £25 for my rabbits last year, but if I had got £75
I should have been out of pocket because I have got no hay and
no corn except in the middle of my ﬁelds.’ ’ So when I said to
him “If then you had spent 7£50 out of your pocket in killing
your rabbits clean out, you would have been better off” he
looked at me as if he thought I was mad, but in a moment he
smiled and almost admitted, “yes.”

A well-known farmer whose word can be believed* went
ferreting in April after the trapper had ﬁnished and he told me
two weeks ago that he and his son caught 64 doe rabbits before
they caught one buck. He and many others who understand
what they are talking about thoroughly agree with me that
rabbits will never be got under as long as the steel trap is allowed
to go on like it is to-day.

From the same correspondent, September 25, 1934:
I saw a trapper last Saturday who told me that in 1932 he

 

* Correspondent N0. M8.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

66 Man versus Rabbit

counted the sexes of his trapped rabbits after he had been trap-
ping for a week or two because he thought he was catching so few
does, and his count was 102 bucks and 2 does. He simply men-
tioned this in conversation , and he did not think it was anything
surprising .

APPENDIX G.

VIEWS OF THE CHIEF CON STABLES OF THE TRAPPING
COUNTIES, GIVEN IN 1932; AND OF CERTAIN
OTHER PERSONS.

Chief Constable of Devon. “Poachers can catch rabbits in nets
in almost any district. I do not think any great hardship
would be incurred if steel traps and common snares were
prohibited in favour of more humane methods.’ ’

Chief Constable of Gloucester. “Poachers use long nets under
most conditions obtaining in this country.” I asked this
Chief Constable: “Do you consider the prohibition of the
cruel steel trap and the common snare by law would entail
a hardship on farmers and others?’ ’ The reply was ‘ ‘No ! ’ ’

Chief Constable of Cornwall. ‘ ‘ In spite of the varied conditions
to be found in this county, such as woodlands, moors,
cliffs, sand—dunes, arable lands, etc., there appears to be
no doubt but that poachers can catch rabbits in any part of
the county.’ ’

Chief Constable of Somerset. ”I do not consider it would be a
great hardship on farmers and others to use nets and snares
in placeoof the steel traps.”

Chief Constable of Dorset. “I do not think that any special
hardship would be imposed on farmers and others by the
use of the steel trap for catching rabbits being prohibited
by law. ’ ’

Chief Constable of North Riding of Yorkshire. ‘ ‘The prohibition
by law of the setting of the cruel steel trap and common
snare might entail a hardship upon farmers and professional
rabbit-catchers, but, nevertheless, I consider these cruel
methods should be prohibited by law.’ ’

Chief Constable of H erefordshire. “The poachers’ methods are
generally more humane, as the rabbits are killed immedi—
ately they are caught. Steel traps should be abolished,
but not the ordinary wire snares unless a more efﬁcient
method can be adopted.’ ’

 




 

 

Views of Chief Constables and others 67

Chief Constable of Pembrokeshire. “The chief methods used by
poachers in this district for the capture of wild rabbits are
by means of nets. Generally speaking , the methods adopted
by poachers are certainly more humane than those practised
by farmers , gamekeepers and others. I do not consider that
the abolition of the steel trap and snare would impose any
hardship on landowners and farmers. ’ ’

The Chief Constable of Perthshire arid Kirirossshire, after stating
that the poacher’s methods are the more humane, says:
‘ ‘I have never heard of landowners or farmers claiming
that there would be hardship to them in the abolition of
the steel-toothed trap or the common snare. Steel—toothed
traps are not used to the same extent as formerly, their use
being now pretty much conﬁned to odd places difﬁcult to
clean out by other means. The abolition of the common
snare might entail hardship unless some equally effective
and more humane snare could be substituted, but I do not
think the abolition, or prohibition, of the steel-toothed
trap should entail any hardship worthy of consideration.”

From Bertram Lloyd, Esq., Hort. Secretary of the National
Society for the Abolition of Cruel Sports.

I am asked by the Council to forward to you the following
resolution:

‘ ‘The Council of the National Society for the Abolition
of Cruel Sports being in entire sympathy with the agita-
tion against the use of the steel trap welcomes the proposed
Parliamentary Bill.”

One of our main aims is the preservation of wild life in
general. The ruthless trapping of so—called “air vermin and
ground vermin” is an essential of game-shooting. In the
interests of pheasant, grouse and partridge breeding great
numbers of economically and aesthetically valuable animals are
slain by means of that damnable invention, the toothed trap.
The mere list of species of the Victims thus sacriﬁced would
occupy too much space.

From J . Weritworth Day, Esq., Editor of the I llastrated Sporting
and Dramatic News, in his private capacity.

I wish the campaign against the steel trap the success which
it deserves. Field sports to~day require all the loyal and sensible
support which those who follow them can give, if we are to keep
our end up against the campaign of ill—informed and sometimes
malicious attacks which has been waged against shooting,
hunting, coursing and other sports by self-appointed bodies .

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

68 1|! an versus Rabbit

In face of this campaign it is ridiculous that we do not put
our own house in order and that we should continue to tolerate
such a barbarous survival as the steel trap. We are inviting
criticism, throwing open our gates to attack. But quite apart
from the political signiﬁcance of the question I do not think
there is a single sportsman worth the name who can contemplate
with complacency the spectacle of a wretched rabbit held by
the leg in agony for it may be an hour, it may be ten
hours. The gun, the net , the ferret , the snare are all capable of
:doing their work more quickly and more humanely. The sooner
the steel trap is abolished the better for sport and its future.

 




 

APPENDIX H.
THE ULAWS QUESTIONNAIRE.

I . County. 2. Locality to which the information applies.
3. Are rabbits generally regarded as a pest in your locality, in
the sense of being harmful to crops, pastures or trees? 4. Are
.any steps taken to discourage poaching? 5. Do any occupiers
of land encourage rabbits (a) by putting down fresh stock ? (b) by
preserving sufﬁcient numbers to breed for next year? 6. What
methods are chieﬂy used for catching or killing rabbits (a) by
professional trappers? (b) by poachers? (c) by farmers? 7. Is
the steel trap extensively used in your locality? 8. Are there
:any local men who know how to use the long net or ‘ ‘poacher’s
net” (i.e., the net 80 or 100 yards long, set on poles, not the
purse net used with ferrets) ? ‘9. Is it a fact that the steel trap
is best suited to professional trappers who have to work on ﬁxed
dates, while the long net is best suited to local men who can
wait for the most favourable conditions? IO. Has motor-car
exhaust gas or the Lewis snare or the RS .P .C.A. knotted snare A
been successfully used in your locality for rabbits? II. Is there
any reason why rabbits should not‘be killed down early in the
season when the young ones are easy to catch ? I2. Is it usual for
a trapper to pay the owner of the rabbits? I3. Or does the owner
usually hire a trapper or netter? I4. Or do the owner and his
servants usually keep the rabbits down by their own efforts?
15. Would the latter plan (I4) be more generally adopted if
owners had better facilities for marketing their rabbits? I6 . Is
it common for domestic animals to be injured by steel traps?
I7. Are any steps taken to enforce the law as to daily inspection
of traps? I8. Are steel traps frequently set in the open?
19. Are traps ever set on sticks or poles for birds? 20. What
methods are employed locally for catching or killing wild
animals other than rabbits? 21. Are deadfall traps or other
humane devices ever used locally for vermin? 22. Please add
any further information you can about local customs in regard
to trapping. 23. Signature and address. 24. Have you any
objection to your name being quoted if necessary? Supplemen—
tary questions. 25. Do you endorse the statement that where
trapping for proﬁt is most systematically carried on, the rabbit
"population continues to be highest? 26. If so, do you attri-
bute this result to dcliberate conservation or to destruction of
the rabbit’s natural enemies? 27. Do you know of any land-
owners who have prohibited the steel trap on their estates?

69

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

APPENDIX I.
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USING THE LONG NET.

METHOD (1) FOR NORMAL (NIGHT) USE. BASED ON MR. COLLING-
TON’ s PRACTICE.

Net. Should be 4 ft. deep and about 80 yards long, Of
three-ply or four—ply hemp, with zi-in. mesh; of good quality,
about 375. or 405. per 100 yards; cheap nets are unsatisfactory.
It should be treated with rot-prooﬁng, and should be freed from
thorns after each set.

Line or cord (85. per double 100 yards) should be joined so
as to be endless, and threaded through top and bottom meshes
Of net. All joints should be sewn, not tied, to permit Of free
running, and lines should be greased with mutton fat occasion-
ally.

End pegs (18. each). The line is run through the eye of an
iron peg at each end, so that the two iron pegs are permanently
on the line .

Wooden poles or pegs (4s. per dozen). Should be Of birch or
hazel, not thicker than the ﬁnger, and Of mixed lengths from
22 inches to 30 inches. Sufﬁcient poles to be set at intervals of
8 yards should be carried in an Old golf bag.

Clothing . Buttons or buckles should not be worn where they
can catch in the netting.

Setting net: duties of pegger. N O. I (pegger) drives the end
iron peg into the ground; goes 7 yards in the direction of laying
and Opens the net; returns towards end-peg and puts in ﬁrst
pole 3 yards away from it; puts in a further pole every 8 yards
(or at longer intervals if rabbits are few), using the longest poles
for hollows in the ground; shakes up net as he goes and appor-
tions it carefully; fastens bottom and top lines by making a
single turn round each pole, the bottom line being fast on the
ground. He holds top line between his teeth when necessary.

Setting net: duties of layer. N o. 2 (layer) lays out the net,
keeps 12 yards in front of No. I , and pulls the net taut. When
the wind is endways it is preferable to lay up wind rather than
down.

Driving. Rabbits should be driven into the net at high
speed with trained dogs or with a line held at each end and
carried forward so as to sweep the ground rapidly.

70

 




 

 

 

 

Instructions for using the long net. 7r

Killing. Rabbits should be killed in the net and turned
out later by shaking the top line. Instead of striking the neck
in the usual way, grasp the head ﬁrmly in one hand and the
shoulders in the other, and force the hands together. Death
should be instantaneous.

Choice of position. The net is set between the feeding-
ground and the burrow, wood or hedgerow, IZ or I5 yards from
the latter. In a small ﬁeld the net should be run a little way
up the side hedges.

Conditions for netting with simple net. A dark, warm ,,
breezy night should be chosen, with wind blowing from rabbits.
towards the net. Strict silence must be observed.

Time for catching. All night in September, October,
November, February. From dark till 9 p.m. in January and
December. When one place has been netted several times in
the evening, a change should be made to early morning.

T 0 fold the net. Leave one iron end-peg in the ground. Pick
the other up with the left hand, so that top and bottom lines.
come together. Grip the lines every yard or so with the right
hand and hang the net over the peg. When the far end is.
reached, wind the remainder Of the lines round the net.

To expel rabbits from burrows. When the burrows are among-
rocks or tree roots, throw calcium carbide into rabbit—holes and
block up some of these; or use renardine or anomoil. In the
course of 24 hours the rabbits will leave the burrow. Artiﬁcial-
cover, such as a pile of brushwood, may be laid in a convenient
position to attract them.

METHOD (2) FOR NORMAL (NIGHT) USE. DESCRIBED BY MAJOR
VAN DER BYL.

A net set 2 feet high is quite high enough to catch rabbits at
night. The meshes must be large enough for them to get their
heads through, so that they become entangled. It should be of"
very ﬁne twine , so as to be as invisible as possible. It is , however ,
useless to attempt to drive rabbits into a net in daylight, as they
will see it and run round the ends. Poachers prefer a net 80 yards
long, and would sooner set up two nets of this length than be-
bothered with one that is longer and more cumbersome to handle .
Their method is as follows :—-The end iron peg is placed in the
ground, and the net, which is carried looped up on the other"
peg, is run out to its full extent, when the other end peg is also].
placed in the ground. The net is now lying more or less ﬂat on
the ground between the two end pegs. Starting from one end,
one turn of the top and bottom lines of the net is then taken
round the top and bottom of the supporting sticks (which are-vi

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

72 Mom versus Rabbit

usually of hazel, lgin. thick, about 2ft. 6in. long, and pointed at
one end). As the net is attachedto each stick, it is placed
upright in the ground; usual intervals onds. apart, or 8yds. if
the catch is expected to be a large one. If an assistant is avail—
able , he should carry the sticks and hand one to the net layer at
the required intervals. If the net has. to pass over any hollows,
small hooked pegs are used to keep the bottom line on the
ground. A dark night should be chosen; and strict silence is
essential. The rabbits should be driven at speed into the net,
and killed by breaking their necks before removing them.

A trained dog is useful for driving rabbits into the net; but
if one is not available, it is a good plan to drag a long cord over
the ground, with a man at each end jerking it up and down. A
third man holding the centre of the cord will be found of assist-
;ance. This process is called ‘ ‘lining in.”

To take up the net , one end peg is taken up and held in one
hand, and the net is picked up at every yard by the top and
bottom lines held together and looped over its point, together
with one or two of the meshes of the net. The assistant should
"walk in front and withdraw each stick in turn, holding it
horizontal, so that the net hangs down like a hammock. This
'method avoids all entanglement, and the net will be ready to
run out again quickly from off the peg when required. Great
(care must be taken to avoid thorns; the net should therefore be
set up several yards from a hedge or edge of a wood. With very
little practice two men can run out and erect 8oyds. of netting
:1} four—and-a-half minutes, and can gather it up in the same

une.

DAYLIGHT SETTING DEVICES . .

_ M ajor Van dew Byl’s methods. For those who wish to set the net up
in daylight, so that it can be dropped at night after the rabbits have got
accustomed to passing out underneath it, a net 4ft. high should be used,
With rings at each end of the bottom line to slide up and down the outside

 

 

Ming Part ; - Freefnd
By courtesy of “The Field.”

supports. Attach the top line only to the supports, which in this case
should be 8 yards apart and on the covert side of the net. Hook the net
up over the tops of the supports; it can be dropped at any time by walking
along the net.

When rabbits only go a short way out to feed, the net should be
arranged so that it can be dropped by a pull on a cord from a distance.
To do this, fasten the end of the separate release line supplied to an end

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Instructions for using the long net. 73

upright; fold a loop in it and pass it round the net and top line; pull the
standing part of the release line through this loop; then fold another loop
and pass it through the last loop formed, pulling it fairly tight. Do the
same every four yards all along the net as shewn. A pull on the end of the
line will draw outall the knots and cause the net to drop. The line may
afterwards be used to drag across the ﬁeld to help ﬂush the rabbits.

Remember to dry nets thoroughly after use ; never put them away wet .

Collington’s supports made by Accles & Shelooke, Ltd., Aston,
Birmingham. Instructions supplied by the makers and by the-
R.S.P.C.A., 105, Jermyn Street, S.W.I. See also Plate III.

PRICES OF NET'I‘ING PER 100 YARDS.

Gilbertson & Page, Ltd., Hertford. 4ft., 3%ft. or 3 ft. wide: 413.,
37s. 6d., 343.

Gripper Manufacturing Co. , Portland Road , Leicester (for Major Van
der Byl’s methods), 3ft. wide (with end pegs only) 80 yards 27s. 6d.;
100 yards 323. 6d . , 4ft . wide for looping up (complete with special plaited
release line, end pegs and supports), 80 yards length, 403. ; 100 yards
length, 508.

Spratt’s Patent, Ltd., 58, Mark Lane, London, E.C.3. 4 ft., 3§ft.,
or 3 ft. wide: 553. and 638., 513. and 585., 465. and 52s.

S . Young & Sons (Misterton) , Ltd. , Misterton, Somerset . 4ft. or 3 ft.
wide: 415. or 353.

 

 

 

 

 




7.- Mr‘ﬁ» .—<-.——_ _. 44..

 

APPENDIX J .

INSTRUCTIONS FOR EXTERMINATING RABBITS AND
RATS WITH MOTOR—CAR EXHAUST GAS.

To produce gas rich in carbon monoxide . Run the engine till
warm and keep running at moderate speed . Enrich the mixture
till smoke appear. Then weaken the mixture by opening the
air-choke till smoke just disappears. The maximum of CO will
thus be obtained. ' '

To convey gases to barrow. Use 1—inch hose-pipe, which
may be 20 or 30 ft. long if ankz‘nked. Connect this to exhaust-
pipe either (I) by means of a short sleeve made of radiator
tubing or (2) by means of a funnel made out of sheet metal,
about 9 in. long, Ii in. in diameter at the Wider end, and g in.
in diameter at the narrow end , the latter being inserted into the
exhaust pipe while the hose is inserted into the Wider end.

Rats. Insert free end of hose-pipe into rat—hole, and pack
the hole to prevent escape of gas. Block up other holes, and
look out for unnoticed holes from which fumes will escape. Block
these also.

Rabbits. Use same method as for rats, but remember that
some holes are blind and do not communicate With general
burrow . Rabbits killed by this method are unsuitable for food,
as the ﬂesh is unsightly .

Caution. The method is obviously free from danger in the
open air but when it is used for rat-holes in buildings, ventila-
tion must be sufﬁciently good to ensure the safety of human
occupants.

 

 

74

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




Wlll. you PLEASE HELP

our Campaign against Cruelty and warfare?

 

(the 511mm education Society

President: GEORGE ARLISS
Vice-Presidents :
THE DUCHESS OF HAMILTON
MISS LIND-AF-HAGEBY
ALD. J. C. GRIME, LR, M.BE.
MISS MAUDE ROYDEN
LADY JOSEPHINE ELVERSTON
Secretary: ARTHUR MIDDLETON Han. Auditors: JULIUS LUNT 8: CO.
H072. Solicitor .‘ FRANK LEIGH
LONDON. CENTRE: Hon. Secretary: Miss W. M. MORGAN, Wilton Road Schools

 

All who love Children and Animals, Peace and Goodwill

are cordially invited to assist our Campaign, concerning

Worn Out Horses , Warfare,PoisonGas

 

 

Caged Wild Birds I ,Cruel Sports and

. . Viviseetion
Pit Ponies ————-

Performing Animals

 

Humane Dress and
Diet Steel Toothed Traps
Protection of Flowers, Plants and Things of Beauty
The Development of Kindliness and Harmony in Life

 

llllllllllllllllllllllllIIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllIlillllllllllllllllllIllllllllllIlllllllllllllllllIlll 5
Humane Teachings in Schools, Homes and other Centres,
the Cultivation of Beauty and Kindliness in Life,

will end Cruelty, Neglect and Warfare

Parents, Teachers, Children, please call or write for Literature
lellllllllllIllIIllllllllllIllllIlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllIlllllllIllllllllllllllllllllIlllllllllllllllllllllllllIllllllllllllllllllIlll.

pLEASE 5 EN D Everyone can help. no matter how little
A DONATION Collecting Boxes can be obtained on application

r u”, u/ “Ana“ one “on/gm»: u/ ../ w” um-» “mm “mm mm ,A/“M..-/‘ Mr M “A MAM» l ‘

lllllllllllllllllllllr-

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

INST

warm
till 5
air-ch
thus
T
may b
pipe 6
tubing
about
in dial
exhau:
R
the hQ
look 0
these :

R
some
burrm
as the

C
open 2
tion n
occupz

A ‘n'n'n'u'hvv T

 

 

Pr<

sla
shi
de

5“

 




THE SCOTTISH SOCIETY
FOR PREVENTION
A OF CRUELTY
TO ANIMALS

(FOUNDED l839)
President : Her Grace THE DUCHESS OF PORTLAND.

6W
AINTAINS 24 inspectors (constables) who

patrol 25 Scottish counties and inspect
slaughterhouses, markets, loading on rail and steam-
ship. Stray and unwanted animals humanely
destroyed. Educates public opinion in regard to
more humane methods of rabbit-trapping. Extens-
sive international propaganda.

Ninety-fourth Annual Report. 240 pp. 20 illus-
trations, gratis on’application. Ordinary Income,
£4,800; Ordinary Expenditure, £8,400. Entirely
dependent upon charitable donations, which will be
gratefully acknowledged by

LYNDESAY G. LANGWILL, C.A.,
Secretary and Treasurer, S.S.P.C.A.,
l9, Melville Street, EDINBURGH, 3.

 

 

 

 

 

 

vii.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

WILD BIRDS NEED
PROTECTION

The champion. of wild birds, the Royal Society for the Protection of
Birds, needs the help of all nature lovers in order to continue and
extend its work, which is so urgently needed in many directions

Among the Society’s varied activities are the provision of bird sanctuaries,
watchers to safeguard rare birds, and perches at lighthouses for migrants.
It is engaged in an active campaign to bring about international agreement
to instal Oil separators on all oil—burning ships, and thereby stop the terrible
destruction of'sea birds; and conducts educational schemes to foster a love
for wild birds, which is their best and surest protection

Join the R.S.P.B . and thereby actively assist in safeguarding one
of the nation’ 3 most beautiful and interesting heritageswwlld
bird life

 

TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION.

Life Fellow ..... £2l. Fellow From £l ls. annually.

Life Member.... £5 55. Member From 55. annually.

Subscriptions and donations to special funds, such as the Watchers,
Lighthouse, Oil Pollution, and Education, are earnestly requested.

 

All Fellows and Members receive the Society’s journal “Bird Notes and
News” quarterly, and other publications, and are kept in close touch With
the work.

ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PROTECTION OF BIRDS
82, VICTORIA STREET, LONDON, s.w.I.

  

 

 

 

. viii .

 




’\

 

Society for we Preservation

of the Fauna of the Empire
(S.P.F.E.)

(Founded in 1903.)

All who are interested in efforts to preserve the marvel-
lous variety of wild life with which Nature has endowed our
Empire are earnestly invited to join this Society.

Its main object is to ensure that NO MORE SPECIES
OF WILD ANIMALS SHALL BE EXTERMINATED
WITHIN THE BRITISH EMPIRE.

This , it is convinced , can only be achieved by the awaken—
ing of public opinion on the subject both at home and abroad.

Much has already been achieved and an active organisa—
tion has been built up, but with greater support much more
could be done and the matter is urgent, for in many places the
position is critical.

Further information as to the working of the Society can
be obtained from The Secretary , Society for the Preserva-
tion of the Fauna of the Empire, c/o The Zoological
Society of London, Regent’s Park, London, N.W.8.

JOIN AND HELP US. The minimum

subscription is. only 10/— per annum.

 

 

 

 

 

 

The National council for Animals’ Welfare

AIMS

at the establishment in humanity of a sympathetic recognition of

relationship with all living things

and the progressive emancipation of the animal kingdom from
exploitation

ANIMALS’ WELFARE WEEK

since 1922, has been celebrated annually in this country in a gradually

increasing number of districts,

All who are willing to take part in the propaganda of the National Council
or who wish for further information, are asked to write to the Secretary.

Donations gratefuly received

THE NATIONAL COUNCIL FOR ANIMALS’ WELFARE
36, Gordon Square, London, W.C.l

Publishers of THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND, 3/6 per annum.

 

 

 

ix.

 




 

  

 

 

   

A time will come when

WOMEN WILL BE ASHAMED
TO WEAR TRAPPED FURS. 2

The agony of this rabbit is a reminder of ‘5

   

    
 

 

 

the prolonged torture of wild animals which
are trapped to provide YOU with decoration.

 

Write for white list of furs and particu-
lars of humane methods to

MAJOR C. VAN DER BYL

The
FUR?! CRUSADE AND HUMANE

TRAPPING CAM PAlG N
TOWCESTER NORTHANTS.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

”,3“; ,m in eff-Illegal» fagfﬁf

Buy your WINTER COAT
MARJA’S STUDIO

By buying your tie, shoulder wrap, coat, coatee or evening
wrap of FUR FABRIC you save a DUMB ANIMAL from the
cruelty of the trapper. FUR FABRIC is lighter, warmer and
healthier than fur. It is made by British labour from British
material.

COME NOW AND SEE
Marja's wonderful Collection of Fur Fabrics

at l, WILTON PLACE, KNIGHTSBRIDGE, S.W.
BY THE POST OFFICE) PHONE SLOANE I772

 

 

 

 

 
   
 
     
  
 
 
 

 

   




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

R. s. P. c. A.

THE OLDEST AND LARGEST
ANIMAL PROTECTION SOCIETY

IN THE WORLD

FOUNDED |824

The R.S.P.C.A. manufactures
the well-known Lewis quick-
killing snare, and also sup-
pliesthevery simple and very
effective knotted snare. The
Lewis snare not only is a
quick killer, it also catches
more rabbits than the ordin-
ary snare, without causing
the prolonged agony of the
gin. The knotted snare does
not kill, nor does it torture.
It holds the rabbit without
injury.

The R.S.P.C.A. organises an
annual Rabbit Week, with
the support of other
societies, for calling atten-
tion to the cruelty of the
steeltrap.

IOS JERMYN STREET, LONDON

S.W.l

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

Photo by Din/mm dc Sons, "I’orquay.

SANDY
of Babbacombe was found in a state of extreme starvation in a trap
after being absent from home for. II days. His paw had to be

amputated. His master, Mr. C. Wenman—Smith, is one of the most
active supporters of the Gin Traps (Prohibition) Bill.

PLATE IV.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

(Photo by the courtesy of P. H. Revell, Esq).

Rabbit’s paw torn off in a steel trap. Picked up in Gloucestershire by
Sir F. T . Gr. Bobday, Principal of the Royal Veterinary College.

 

I’ll not be made a soft and dull-eyed fool
To shake the head, relent, and s1gh, and yield
To Christian intercessors.

Shahspem'e: “The Merchant of Venice.”

 

Photo by A . H . Hawhe, Helston .

“A creature the economic value of which cannot be measured in terms
of sentimentality . ”

Shooting Times and British Sportsman, October 13th, 1934.

PLATE V .

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

mercy ,

Photo by A . H. Hawke
rendering none ?’ ’
Shakspeare: ‘ ‘The M emizant of Venice.”

7

H elston.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

Photo by A . H . Hawke, Helston .

“Personally, I consider all this talk on the cruelty of rabbit trapping is grossly exaggerated.”
Shooting Times and British Sportsman, October 13th, 1934.

PLATE VII .

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

author of “Nature by Night” and Nature by Day.”

Photo by the courtesy of Arthur R. Thompson, Esq. ,
Stoat caught in gin by both forefeet.

AAPlh-JAATE VIII .AA A A A AA A ,A—A’ F—IA’ A A4 4A A A A

  




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Photos by the Sport and General Press Agency, Ltd.

 

 

FOX sent to the University of London Animal Welfare
Society by a Master of Hounds, who states: “He was
nearly dead from starvation and exhaustion when brought
to me this evening. I had him ‘put away’ as soon as I
saw his foot. He was trying to get home with the trap
on and must have dragged it a very long way. By his
condition he must have been in the trap several days.

“I have a hound missing since last Monday. I have
been all over that district blowing a horn and can’t ﬁnd
her. I think she must be sitting down in a trap starving,
or has dragged a trap into one of our deep valleys and is
too exhausted to move. It is too awful to think of and
drives me mad—but no worse than this wretched fox and
numerous other dogs, foxes, &c ., &c ., at this very
moment.”

 

 

The pad to which the trap was attached.

PLATE IX.

 




«-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

”Enhuknr‘hl L‘Wli

 

 




 

UNIVERSITIES FEDERATION FOR ANIMAL WELFARE

, The University {of LondOn- Animal Welfare Society

c/o THE UNIVERSITY OF LONDON UNION
68, TORRINGTON SQ. , LONDON, W.C. r
1 President: , ' I
PROF. Sm FREDERICK HOBDAY, C.M.G., F.R.C.V.S., F.R.S.E.
Principal of the Royal VeterinaryCollege'.
' joint Hon. Secretaries: ' .
CAPT. C. W. HUME, M.C., dB.Se.
MISS C. M. KNIGHT, D .Litt. '
‘ Hon». Treasurer:
BRIG-GEN. MAGNUS Mow'Ar, C.B.E,, F.R.S.E., ‘F.K.C.,
‘ , M.Inst.C.E., M.I.Mech.E.
vHon. Secretary for Wild Life:
A. H. B. KIRK‘MAN,‘ F.R.C.‘S.:E.v, L.R.C.P., F.Z.S.
(Han; Secretary for Animals Abroad:
‘ r F. JEAN VINrEn, M.D.’,‘ BS.
7 Secretary: ‘ ‘
. , MISS M.A. CHALLEN,'B.A. _

The aim of the Society is todiminish , by methods appropriate
to its special character as a university organization , the sum total
of pain and fear inﬂicted by man On animals . It has branches in
colleges of the University of London. With the University Col-
lege, Exeter, Anirnal Welfare Society it forms in embryo the
Universities Federation for Animal Welfare, which in due course
will be extended to, foreign uniVersities.

The UniverSity' Of. London Animal Welfare SOciety is pro -
moting a parliamentary bill-for. the prohibition of the gin
or steel trap in Great. Britain. _

Members of the general public are eligible as Fellows (Ios .
per annum) or Patrons (£5) . _' _‘Ordinary membership is. open to
members of the University of London . ’ .. ‘ ,

A list of the society’s publications will be Sent on request. Volume 2
of the Animal Year-gBook. contains 7. art plates, cover by Fougasse, and
chapters on the sense of pain, in animals by G. C. Grindley (Cambridge
Psychological Laboratory); animals in the High Court by F. E. Hodgson, ‘
Barrister-at—Law; the traﬁic in‘ trapped furs; animals abroad (including
articles on Persia by Sir Arnold Wilson, African natives by J. H. Driberg,
India by Maj-Gen. Sir John Moore, and I 3 other countries); reviews and
summaries of books dealing with animals; and summaries relating to the
more important problems of animals welfare , including euthanasia. Price

' 25. 6d. postage 3d. ' p . ' .
‘ ‘An important and accurate work of, reference.’ 'mBr'itz'sh Medical
Journal. . p ,. _ .p

' ‘Every lover of animals should get this book.’ ’mThe Young Farmer.

“Carefully documented facts, simply stated} ’MState Service- -

‘ ‘The University {of London” has set an example which might well be

followed in other places of sound learning.’ ’—-The Schoolmaster.

 

 




 




