1‘ i x"

THE NATIONAL SOCIETY
, FOR
THE ABOLITION OF CRUEL SPORTS

HON. SECRETARY:
BERTRAM LLOYD, 56, BLOOMSBURY STREET, LONDON, w.c.1

Telephone : Museum 1177

No. 51 Bulletin, March, 1939

Food and Sport >

We shall shortly issue a new pamphlet, Food and Sport, by our Chairman,
Mr. H. G. Chancellor. This is a spirited attack on the wastage Of land in the
interests of blood-sports. The writer’s thesis is that “ sport as now practised is a
leading cause of diminishing our economic welfare and especially our food
resources, and thus Of weakening our first line of defence. It sacrifices the welfare
of 46,000,000 consumers and the livelihood of tens Of thousands, to the mere
amusement Of a few people, probably not more than 20,000 in all.” The Chairman’s

I essay has appeared in the February number of Tbe Com‘empomry Review, where it

has already attracted attention.

5‘-‘-'The Minehead Hind Incident Sequel

2»

In our last issue we printed the Society’s letter of protest which appeared in
numerous journals. In' the meantime the following courteous Official reply was
issued on behalf of the British Field Sports Society :

“ Sir—My attention has been drawn tO a letter from Mr. Bertram Lloyd
headed ‘ Stagahunting ’. As this letter gives an entirely false impression of the
incident which occurred at Minehead recently, I trust that you will permit me
to give the correct facts. A deer hunted by the Devon and Somerset Hounds
made for the Channel. As soon as it was known that the deer was approaching
the water, hounds were immediately stopped. The Secretary Of the hunt and
the hunt servants then went to the beach to see if the deer was all right. There
was never any intention of hunting it again whether in the water or not.

When it was seen that the deer was in the sea the hounds and hunt servants
were sent home so that nothing should prevent it coming safely ashore, whilst
the hunt Secretary remained behind with a gun to dispatch the deer only if
it were injured. It was not in fact injured, but swimming strongly, and no
attempt was made to Shoot it. As soon as the crowd on the beach disappeared
the deer returned to land and to its usual haunts. When the deer was seen to
cross the ﬂats to the Channel. there was no calf (which incidentally, at this
time of the year would be a full—grown deer) with her, and there is no indication
that the calf referred. to had any connection with the deer.

While I appreciate that it is Mr. Lloyd’s duty to forward the Objects Of the
Society of which he is the Secretary, your readers will, I am sure, be anxious
to have the true facts before them.” . J. w. FITZWILLIAM.

As this demanded an answer, the Society issued the following letter which
appeared, among other journals, in T/ye New Statesman (4/ 5/ 1939).

“ Sir—The account given by Mr. J. W. Fitzwilliam, Secretary of the

< British Field Sports Society, in your issue of February 25th, of the recent
Devon and Somerset Stag-hounds hunting ‘incident ’, differs markedly from
the reports which appeared in a number Of newspapers as well as from some
local accounts. Nevertheless, though unable to admit the conclusions which
he draws from it, I am quite willing to accept this statement Of the ‘ facts.’
The real issue remains unaffected. As I write I have before me a letter from
the local Police Superintendent Stating that the police have evidence ‘ that a
hind and a calf were hunted in the Minehead district on 28th January last, that
a hind was later seen in the sea and subsequently escaped, whilst a calf’s body

 




was washed up on the beach the same evening.’ As the red deer? ,.-.r 7
lack any legal protection whatever, the police had, of course, no cause -

intervention. Is it possible that the hind and calf in the sea were not those "

hunted earlier in the day P It is hardly likely ; and most people will draw the
obvious conclusion that they were the same. If the hind was the same (as
Mr. Fitzwilliam admits) why not the calf also P

The really salient fact is that stag—hunting ‘incidents ’ of this kind—deer
driven over cliffs or desperately taking to the sea, etc.—-are not of outstanding
rarity. Indeed, they can hardly be avoided while stag—hunting on Exmoor
continues to be recognised as ‘ sport.’

There is unconscious irony in Mr. Fitzwilliam’s apologia for the Minehead
incident. He states that, after the hind had been chased into the sea, the
Secretary of the hunt and the hunt servants went to the beach ‘ to see if the
deer was all right.’ From such solicitude one might almost suppose that this
was a pet deer out for a run, and not a wild creature which the hunt had
been trying to harry to its death.” BERTRAM LLOYD.

“The Countryman” on Cruelty in Sport

Commenting on this incident, which has aroused so much public disgust,
Mr. J. W. Robertson Scott, ].P., the Editor of that most popular of “quarterlies,”
T/Je Comhjlman, states in the current issue:

The comment that may be justly made is surely as follows : (I) If such proceedings
do not constitute cruelty to animals it is not easy to deﬁne what cruelty is. (2) If the
chase of a hind and her calf be sport, then many sportsmen will dislike being identiﬁed
with it. (3) With such proceedings allowed by the law, it becomes increasingly difﬁcult,
the present writer feels as a magistrate, (a) for justices to punish severely poor and
ill-educated people for cruelty to animals, and (b) for school teachers to inculcate humanity
to animals in their scholars.

Can Exmoor Deer be Shot P
During a recent correspondence in The Liam/mime E6190 a correspondent
ventured to suggest that the Exmoor deer might be more humanely kept down by
shooting them than by hunting. It is constantly assumed by defenders of hunting
that it is virtually impossible to shoot Exmoor red deer, foxes and otters, dead ;
and like most other things connected with this sport this has become legendary.
It is, it seems, quite possible to kill humanely by shooting such animals as are
not “ beasts of chase ”—-—which is curious, to say the least! The following letter,
dated 25th February last, from Miss Edith Ward (author of our pamphlet T/Je
Hunting 0f the Stag), in reply to a letter from the British Field Sports Society,
admirably puts our position.
“ Sir—My attention has been drawn to a letter headed ‘ Blood Sports ’ in

your issue of February 18th, in which the writer asserts that greater cruelty is .

involved in shooting deer than is caused by hunting them, and that, in fact, ‘those
who have ﬁrst-hand experience of the difficulty of humanely shooting deer,
prefer the certain death or escape offered by hunting.’ This is a very hoary
yarn which has been trotted out ever since the conspicuous cruelties caused by
hunting deer on Exmoor have been so fully exposed in the Press.

Of course, the peppering of deer with shot-guns by irate farmers is cruel,
and, no doubt, suffering may be caused by bad shots in amateur attempts to
deal with superﬂuous deer in private parks, but where genuine marksmen
with proper weapons are concerned, the needful lessening of superﬂuous deer
can be achieved with complete success and the minimum of suffering.

The defenders of stag—hunting in Devon and Somerset have always asserted
that what can be done in Scotland cannot be achieved in Devon, but it is
somewhat singular to ﬁnd the Secretary of the British Field Sports Society
repeating this ancient excuse when he must know that the Devon and Somerset
Hunt has itself arranged for the method suggested by humanitarians, viz.
driving and shooting, to be successfully carried out when excessive numbers
of deer have had to be removed.

J

To animals,as to man, ‘death cometh soon or late,’ but is it not the duty .

of a moral being to see that the death he brings about in the animal kingdom

is done with skill and care and by necessity, and not for fun?”
EDITH WARD.

 




