FgunHﬁH anH
Dinﬁmd by
, L. UN?! AF HAwgﬁ

.. «Ne-urn.“ . >v.~_~.,..-m—m- «annumrwu-“V i

aavmmwmm
optwe “

 

“w j 5550;31sz*‘

Wm!“

mneenpaéhz am Amma.
5.446%”; RQMNMW 8

am {5+ gur- 559:3!an ANMr‘H’i"

ﬁnﬁdﬁ

5 N“: 49:.er ~ NMUM.“

E :- 245 {mm p.51 F Ei'nu '4 A *vé'rnfs'ix} "5'5 ;'

, -4 A“--. n.» ..- .. o .. y». ‘mﬁu--A¢~w—-~ .au run-Av

ﬁMwiiiié! W
“S TATE M "E 3 $12? Haw

.mWMmW-- 15
. ‘ ' a

Agriwune, 593?.
V01... KW, No. 2

‘ v.vm:§'¢v, l'rELLw13Imlrﬂ-Aa'mwv - . ,

,HUMANE
L'EDUCATHDNW

(‘1': 63 “m ' ‘55, 55

.35544354g45»~

'\ - A,
.5»: »‘ .
, , "a! ‘

' 3 {’5 " I
r:§ 555% {555,- ‘ g‘ 45543115553 (1 . '

5'}? 55:, 5‘: 1;: 5 5,

585581‘185
4’“ 5‘ ’55."? 555- 055’

455‘mwfh’m5 WM .oves Ammmh
Y3; mm mm 4 . $51453.

sud

. ‘ ‘ 5‘15” 5 wVparm;
“551555”. Fdhbﬁ 5" 5516‘- 554,9. {355'

\

,..~,« ,, .51“ m :53- ... _ « 30.....3‘:

Wusm mm am r?
C35; EKpER¢M5 «555;
QN .' 5551555“: 23-15-4355—

, 4.. :«ﬂmq‘V ,o «- um»-u.»;..:..t_ .

LONDON.

:a- a§.1..a»;ifw ;::'..~' '

Amdﬁm—Wuna—a

 




 

 

 

m .f Bequest

.»
1

_ am“
(formerly at: 351,01c1 Bond ‘atr London
la {'0'}; glue" ﬁeneral purposes (if such bocxety;

 

 




The Humanitarian and Anti/Vivisection Review
A Journal of Health Education

_ LONDON:
EDITORIAL and PUBLISHING OFFICES,

15, ST. JAMES’S PLACE, ST. JAMES'S STREET. S.W.1.

GENEVA:
4, COURiST. PIERRE.

CONTENTS FOR APRILIJUNE, 1937.

THE HOSPICE OF GRAND ST. BERNARD AND ITS FAMOUS DOGS : WHY I MADE MY OFFER. History
of the Pass. Napoleon. Bernard de Menthon. Hospitality and Worship. The Dogs.
Telephone and Skis. The St. Bernard Dog as a Friend. Destroying the Dogs. The Offer.
Public Opinion in Support Of the Offer. By L. Lind/afrHageby. (Many Illustrations.)

HEALTH EDUCATION AND RESEARCH COUNCIL. Children and Repressive Treatments. Diet and
the Coming Generation. Unnecessary Operations. Principles of Nature/Cure. Diet as a Basic
Cause of Disease. Lectures by Dorothy Mazel, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P.; Cyril V. Pink, M.R.C.S.,
L.R.C.P.; B. P. Allinson, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P.; R. Fielding/Ould, M.D., M.R.C.P., and
M. Beddow Bayly, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P.

HOMCEOPATHY AND ANIMAL WELFARE. By Thomas Robertson, B.Sc., M.B., CH.B.

PROTECTION OF FUR’BEARING ANIMALS IN CANADA. “ Romantic ”—Six days in a Trap. For
the Human Race ! Problems of a “ Humane ” Trap. The Buyers and Wearers are to Blame.
Fur/Farming as a Substitute. Humanitarian Opposition to Fur/Farms. The Timber Wolf.

By C. D. Niven.

HEN BATTERIES. The Hen’s Sing/Sing. Commercialisation. Facts. What are the Batteries like ?
' Where the Batteries are Housed. “ Advantages ” of Batteries. Are the Birds Healthier?
Getting Used to the Battery. 15' the Hen Happy? Not “ She ” but “ It.” By E. G. Barlow

ELECTRIC POULTRY‘FARMS. By L. K. S

PAGE

 




58 Progress Today—The Humanitarian and Anti’Vivisection Review
.— ' I A PAGE
(Content: continued) . . .
LIFE AND COMMENT. “ Conquering Nature.” Suffering Caused by Blts. The Bull’Fight In
France. The Bull’Fight in Spain. British “ Sport.” Destruction. The True Naturallst 88
A SCHOOL THAT LOVES ANIMALS." By Elizabeth Yates 91
BE IT KNOWN. Pavilion Zoophilia. Three Lectures by Miss Lind/afrHageby. Press Comment
on “ Thinking and Speaking Animals.” The Health Education and Research Counc1l: A
Series of Medical Lectures. Coronation. More About not Wearing Ermine. Second Reading
of Cinematograph Films (Animals) Bill. Medical Movement Against Vivisection in Italy 93
PAVILION ZOOPHILIA AT THE PARIS EXHIBITION. (Illustration) 94.
CORRESPONDENCE. Radiation: Diagnosis. Montivideo. More About Orr/Roasting. Destruction
of Rabbits by the Use of Gas. Number of Rabbits Trapped Annually in Great Britain.
“ Humaneness ” of Cyanide Fumigation 101

 

PROGRESS TO/DAY

THE HUMANITARIAN AND ANTI/VIVISECTION REVIEW

 

This Journal writes of:

 

 

The Elusiveness of “ Progress “ based on Injustice and
Exploitation of the Weak.

The Building up of a Civilisation Founded on Sympathy
and Justice.

The Cruelty of Man’s Treatment of his Fellow'Creatures.

The Barbarities Connected with the Slaughter and
Transport of Animals. .

The Miseries of Animals Trapped for Fur ; Hunted and
Slain‘ for Pleasure; Kept as Captives in Zoos and
Menageries ; or Made to Perform Unnatural Tricks.

The Universal Kinship.
The Study of Mind in Animals.
The Necessity for Humane Education in every School.

Laws and Legislation embodying Practical Measures for
the Protection of Animals.

The Inherent and Basic Oneness of Religion and Science.
The Failure of Modern Medicine to Create Health.

The Iniquity and Uselessness of Experiments on Living
Animals.

The Medical and Scientiﬁc Case against Vivisection.
The Unscrupulousness and Commercialism of the Use
of Sera and Vaccines.

Disease and Physical Degeneration Caused by the
Vivisectional System.

The Tyranny and Danger of State Medicine.

The Science of Health and the Art of Living in
Conformity with the Laws of Nature.

The Enlightenment of the Public on all Matters Apper’
taining to the 'Creation of Personal Health and the
Prevention of Disease.

 

QUARTERLY.
ANNUAL SUBSCRIPTION

SINGLE COPIES 6d.

I I I

25. 6d.

 

All remittances to be sent to—

The Manager, PROGRESS TOIDAY, 1’5, St. James’s Place, St. James’s Street, London, S.W.1.

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

A priHune, 193 7.

 

59

The Hospice of Grand St. Bernard and its

Famous Dogs: Why I Made My Offer

By L. LIND’AFIHAGEBY

The traditions of Grand St. Bernard are amongst
the precious possessions of humanity. Situated at an
altitude of 8,000 feet (2,472 metres) above sea level
on the great mountain pass between Switzerland
and Italy the house of refuge for travellers has
been and is not only a centre of practical help,
of safety after perilous travel, but a symbol of
something the world sorely needs: kindliness and
charity. There are other passes over the mountains,

‘3
x ‘9‘ \
\z' :‘h‘hb
ta.\ “ﬁat

Winter at Grand

the St. Gothard, the Simplon, but none can be
compared with that of Grand St. Bernard in
historical and humanitarian interest.

During ten months of the year there is snow on
the Pass, often of a depth of 30 feet. The cold
is intense, the thermometer descends to 30° centi’
grade; avalanches fall with distressing frequency,
engulﬁng all who have not been warned of the
dangers of high mountain travel in winter. There
are bitter and devastating winds driving blinding
snow into the eyes of travellers, and bewildering
mists, Even in summer the temperature is often

 

very low, no trees can grow at the altitude of the
Hospice, no vegetables can be cultivated there. But
some brave and hardy specimens of Alpine ﬂora
are to be found in the vicinity: gentians, spring

’ anemones, glacier’ranunculus, pansies and forget,

mernots. »
In these days when religion is derided and human
beings consider. themselves too intelligent to accept
a spiritual foundation of things tangible, the history

 

‘ '
(From Grand St. Bernard: 32 Illustrations.)
Edition Société Graphique S. A. Neuchatel.
St. Bernard. .

 

of the Hospice as a religious institution is of
particular interest. For here, during centuries of
a changing world, during years of war and peace,
of social revolutions and class/hatred, men have
devoted themselves to practical Christian charity,
rescuing weary travellers, housing, feeding and
clothing them, digging them out of snowdrifts,
tending the wounded, healing the sick. Here men
have “ renounced ” the world, living the simple, the
austere life for the sake of a faith, risked and given
physical life in the conviction that compassion is
of greater worth than self/preservation. The bleak

 




 

 

60 Progress cToday—41716 Humanitarian and Anti/Vivisection Review

House on the Top of the Mountain is devoted to
rescue and hospitality. And in their great and
unique work they have been and are assisted by
a race of massive, brave and highly trained dogs.
The fame of the St. Bernard dogs is world/Wide.
Does not every instructed school/child love the tale
of Barry the Magniﬁcent, the daUntless dog of
Grand St. Bernard, , who saved the lives of 40
persons and who was killed by the 4lst ? *

peoples of antiquity. Hannibal entered Italy in
218 BC. by the Pass. Julius Caesar in the year
57 BC. ordered Sergius Galba to take Martigny
(Octodu-rus) with the object of conquering the
Valley of the Rhone and occupying the Pass.

It was used by Alienus Cascina and his legions
in the year 69 of the Christian era, when he
marched into Italy to place Vitellius on the throne
of the Caesars. About the year 12 BC. Augustus

   
   

(From Grand St. Bernard: 32 Illustrations.)

‘The Hospice of Grand St. Bernard and the Lake in Summer.

History of the Pass

It has often been stated that the Pass has been
used by travellers for 2,000 years. The use of the
Pass is, however, of much greater antiquity. It
was used already in the eighth century before the
Christian era as is shown by objects found dating
from the bronze age. Armies from Bourgogne and
Langres marched across it into Etruscia in 388
BC. and so did the soldiers of Brennen who, in
390, beat the Romans. Roman merchants trading
with Gaul came that way. The inhabitants of
lower Valais established the cult of the god Penn

_ at the Pass—hence the name by which it became

known, Col du Pennin. Numerous ancient coins
found near the Lake of Grand St. Bernard bear
testimony to the presence and the trading of the

 

* The body of this Barry is preserved through the art of
the taxidermist in the museum of Berne. In honour of his deeds of
valour one of the dogs at the Hospice always bears the name of Barry.

made a road across the Pennine Alps which joined
Aosta (Augusta Prcetoria) to Martigny (Octodurus)
and continued to the vicinity of Basle. Romans
erected a temple to Jupiter at the Pass and a refuge
for Roman travellers. The mountain became known
as Mons Jovis. The new cult was imposed on that
of the people of Valais, but votive tablets found
among the ruins of the Roman temple show that
prayers for safety were offered not only to Jupiter
but also to Penn.

In our age Grand St. Bernard may "well be called
a symbol of tolerant friendliness; in the past it
was often used as a highway for the hordes of war.
In 574 the Lombards crossed the Pass in a campaign
of devastation of Valais ; Charlemagne sent an
army in 773 into Italy over Mons Jovis and a year
later, as crowned king of the Lombards, he entered
his new state by the Pass. In 1476 the people of
the High’Valais fought the Lombards in the region

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

AprilJune, 1 9 3 7.

Between 1797 and 1802, 150,000
soldiers crossed the Pass—including the army of
Napoleon.

of the Pass.

Napoleon

The route from Martigny to Aosta is redolent
of legends and reminiscences of Napoleon. His
brief sojourn at Grand St. Bernard is commemorated
in the famous picture by J. Girardet.

The ﬁrst Consul was in a great hurry. He had
stayed at Martigny in the house of the Provost of
Grand St. Bernard making preparations. Leaving
Martigny in the morning, he dined at the Hospice
and continued the same night across the Italian

 

\

Napoleon at Grand St. Bernard.

frontier. He brought 40,000 men, 5,000 horses
and 50 cannon. The passage of the troops took
only ten days in spite of the snow. Soldiers arrived
at the Hospice in the evening and in the day,
spending the night or making a brief halt. Touched
by pity for the exhausted men the monks distributed
bread, cheese and wine. The great difﬁculty of
transporting the artillery was overcome by placing
the guns in hollowed tree trunks. These were
dragged up the mountain by soldiers assisted by
Valaisan peasants. After the battle of Marengo, in
which General Desaix fell, Napoleon ordered a
marble tomb and monument to his memory to be
placed in the church of the Hospice. Here the

body of the General was laid “ to rest.”

 

61

1 Bernard de Menthon

In describing the warlike uses of the Pass I may
have given readers the impression that these have
predominated. In all accounts of human activity
and life there is the clash of hostilities, ' jealousies,
greed. There is the struggle of good and evil, of
materialism rampant and spiritualism insistent. The
noise of the former is deceptive; the quietude of
the latter may denote force unconquerable. The
mountain of the great Pass has seen humanity in
all its aspects, the highest and the lowest. It has
been a focus and centre of strife and development.
How did Mons Jovis become Grand St. Bernard .7

 

rrom the picture by J. Uirardet.

In the tenth century numerous pilgrims from the
lands which are now Switzerland, France and
Germany crossed the Pass on their way to Rome.
The perils and difﬁculties of the path were increased
by the activities of a number of brigands who
attacked and robbed travellers.

No one could or would master the brigands; But
as is shown in the history of reform, a great need
calls forth the man—or the woman. The story of
the life of Bernard 'de Menthon is that of a ﬁghter
for spiritual ascendency, a hero and a saint. I have
before me a little book published in 1862, entitled
Vie de St. Bernard de Menthon, Archidiacre
d’Aoste, Fondateur de l’Hospice des Mont et
Colonne’Ioux, par un Chanoine du Grand St.

..M.v~-r,"a.=..‘A—=—rr:-~r—z< gut-«1;... .,, ‘

 




 

62 . Progress Tozday—JThe Humanitarian and Anti’Vivisection Review

Bernard, avec l’approbation de Monseigneur
l’Eyéque de Sion.* It is, written with irresistible
charm and simplicity. The author begins by point’
ing out that in the 10th century, when society was
afflicted by dissensions, when the invasion of the
Normans desolated the provinces of France and the
Church was not free from scandals, God who has
promised to be with His own until the end of time,
did not cease to raise in Christendom great saints
who taught the peoples to lift their eyes to Heaven,
to wait for blessings, to let afﬂictions pass by, not
to mistake this world for a permanent dwelling and,
in view of eternity, to endure with patience the
sufferings of the time.

Bernard de Menthon was born in Annecy in 996
(my book gives the year 923, which seems impossi’
ble, as he died in 1081) in the castle of Menthon.
He was born of noble and rich parents. His father
the Baron Richard was a distinguished man and his
pious mother Bernoline came of an ancient and
illustrious family, descended from Count Olivier of
Geneva, Peer of France. There was great joy at
the coming of the son and such were the signs
of goodness and holiness in the child Bernard, that
his ﬁrst biographer, the Chanoine Richard, states
that the Lord had called Bernard to His Service
before he was born and that he was predestined to

be a saint. In ipso quoque utero inclytee Bernolynce
sanctiﬁcatus.

At a tender age Bernard was seen by his mother
to lift his eyes to Heaven, his little hands clasped
in prayer. The child was remarkably intelligent——
we are told that he could read “ facilement ” at
the age of three. His greatest joy was to render
little services at the Mass which was celebrated
every day in the Chapel of the Castle, and to join
in the chanting of hymns and canticles. Whilst
admiring the pious qualities of his son, Baron
Richard de Menthon wanted him to be more
“ manly,” to ride, to learn the use of arms and
to behave as a young Chevalier should. Whilst
submitting to his father’s wishes, Bernard—gym'
nastic exercises being ﬁnished—gave himself up to
practices of devotion, to contemplation of the lives
of saints, to a longing to imitate them. He was
especially attracted to St. Nicholas, model of
modesty and virtue, and asked for his protection
and guidance in life.

There is a resemblance in the events and
obstacles in the lives of the holy ones’ which per!
haps only the ignorant ﬁnd curious. There is much"
in common in the lives of "St. Bernard, St. Francis
and Buddha. Bernard was conﬁded to an excellent
tutor; his education comprised literature, history,
science and the management of great estates. In
due course he was sent to Paris to the great school

 

* PARIS: Victor Palmé, LibrairevEditeur, 22, rue Saint Sulpice, 1862.

founded in 792 by Charlemagne. There he met
the “ brilliant ” youth of many nations, learnt how
to conduct himself before the responsibilities and
the inheritance which were to be his. He mastered
easily the learning and the science offered, but his

heart was elsewhere. His vows were already made.

Bernard’s return to the parental castle was made
the occasion of a great fete to which all the rich
and noble families in the neighbourhood were
invited, “ never had so much luxury and sump;
tuousness been seen at Menthon.” Famous
Chevaliers with their ladies came to honour Richard
and Bernoline and to wish well to their son.
Bernard charmed the company by his intelligence,
knowledge and tact. His father, feeling the time
had come for Bernard to take over the direction of
Menthon, asked him to choose a bride amongst the
virtuous and attractive demoiselles assembled. He
was advised to select the beautiful daughter of the
Seigneur de Miolans, whose dowry would be an
“immense fortune.”

Bernard, unwilling, makes excuses. The father,
angry, wants to know the reason. There is
disturbance and unhappiness. Finally the'father
orders Bernard to marry and accept the investiture
of Menthon with its Chateaux and dependencies.
The day of the wedding is ﬁxed and all prepara’
tions made.

The wedding guests arrive, the Seigneurs of
Beaufort, of Duin, and others with their horses
and their banners, their servants, equipment for the
chase, and ladies richly attired. Arrangements are
made for the sumptuous going of Bernard to meet
his bride’to’be, Marguerite de Miolans. But
Bernard is caught up in spiritual anguish; he
retires to his room, closing the door, and on his
knees before the cruciﬁx renews his vows of service
and chastity. He turns to the image of

.St. Nicholas, his protector, beseeching him to help

in the struggle to overcome the obstacles in the
way of the life he desires. Bernard is granted
a vision. He sees St. Nicholas who says: Bernard,
servant of God, the Lord never deserts those who
place conﬁdence in Him. Leave this house. Go
to Aosta. Go to the cathedral; there you will
ﬁnd an old man, Archdeacon Peter, a good man.
You will stay with him and he will show you the
way. “ For my part I shall be your protector and
I shall never for one moment desert you.”

And Bernard went. Through the window he
went, though barred and high above the rocky
foundation of the castle. He could achieve this
miraculous escape, we are'told, because celestial
spirits come to the aid of those who serve God,
carrying them in their arms. Old pictures show
Bernard descending from the window, accompanied

 

 

 




 

 

 

April/Irma 1937.

by St. Nicholas and an angel—emporté par miracle.
But bé’fore leaving he wrote a letter to his parents
telling them that he could not contract marriage
and that the Lord demanded his service. He
begged them not to be anxious and not to search
for him.

Those who have followed the story so far are
probably anxious to come to things “ practical ”—
most readers today are in a hurry. Imagine the
consternation and the sorrow of Bernard’s parents,
the anger of the family of Miolans—which nearly
led to an armed attack on the house of Menthon—
the difﬁcult walk to Aosta. Fatigued, yet jubilant,
Bernard entered the cathedral where he prostrated
himself in humble prayer before the altar. And
—need I add—as he prayed Archdeacon Peter
appeared and seeing the devotion and the humility
of the young man spoke to him and ﬁnding him a
youth of extraordinary promise invited him to the
hospitality of his house.

In Aosta Bernard felt like a prisoner liberated.
Had not God shown him the way? Had not
promises been kept? His piety, devotion, anxiety
to learn and to serve, made him the object of special
care and attention on the part of the Archdeacon.
After due preparation Bernard was admitted to
priesthood. By fasting and prayer, by penances of
the body, he prepared himself for the task which
he believed to be his. , Those who suffered through
poverty and disease were constantly in his mind.
His charity and his acts of pity endeared him to the
population of Aosta. His taste for knowledge of
things divine and human never blunted his intense
desire to help. His charm of manner and courtesy
made him beloved of all. He had the gifts of
eloquence and persuasion and after due preparation
became a missionary in the valleys of the Alps,
on the mountains and on the plains. He was called
by various bishops to speak to the people in Sion,
Milan, Geneva and Novara.

In due course the old Archdeacon died and
Chanoine Bernard, though young, and though
there were other presumably more qualiﬁed
aspirants to the ofﬁce, was elected Archdeacon of
Aosta, “ supported by the clergy, the nobility and
the peOple.” Bernard hesitated, found it diﬁlcult
to obey. His modesty and simple habits—hard
bread for foodhthe earth for a bed—did not seem
to harmonise with such high oﬂice. But once again
St. Nicholas intervened. The new dignity would
be but a means of greater service.

I have mentioned that in the tenth century
brigands had taken possession of the great Pass.

They were a menace and a danger to all pilgrims
who, at times, had their throats cut or were thrown
from heights to die on the rocks below. These

 

63

brigands Were composed of the scum of armies, of
sarrasins, degraded hungarians, mussulmans, jews,
demoralised Christians and heathen.

They were in the habit of robbing every tenth
traveller that passed, sometimes killing him. Che
day nine French pilgrims arrived at Aosta greatly
distressed because the tenth of their little band
had been taken prisoner by the brigands and no
prayers or offers had been of any avail. The
Vie de Saint Bernard from which I have quoted
tells us that the brigands had re'established the
cult of the demon in the ancient temple of Jupiter
and around a column surmounted by the “ eye ”
of Jupiter.

The great work of Bernard de Menthon was
about to begin. It was intolerable that Christians
bent on pilgrimage shOuld be tormented in this
manner and that idolatry should be openly
practised. Bernard prayed for guidance. Once
again St. Nicholas appeared to him in the garb of
a pilgrim and said “ Bernard let us ascend these
high mountains; we shall put the demons to ﬂight;
we shall overthrow the statue of Jupiter of which
the brigands have taken possession in order to V
perpetuate trouble amongst Christians, we shall
break it with its column and its escarboucie, later
on we shall found two hospices for the good of
pilgrims who wish to cross the two mountains.
Go and explain this to your bishop, present your’
self as the tenth of a group crossing the mountain,
then you will master the demons, you will break
the statue with a blessed star and disperse the
débris in hollows of the mountains; you will thus
exterminate the evil until the day of judgment.”

The consent of the bishop "having been obtained
Bernard, Archdeacon of Aosta, fortiﬁed by prayer,
heads a little procession which includes the nine
distressed pilgrims and which is accompanied by
the ,‘clergy and the people of the town. With
prayers and chants they advance. At the foot of
the mountain Bernard sends the clergy and _ the
people back. With the pilgrims he ascends the
mountain, there is a thunderstorm, there are mists
and clouds, all the black forces seem to be
assembled to hold him back. But he'arrives and
entering the temple bids the demon and his hordes
to depart in the name of Jesus Christ. As he
throws his blessed star at the neck of the statue,
miraculously, we read, it is transformed into an iron
chain with which he draws down the statue which
falls, broken into pieces, at his feet. With the
same chain he binds the evil magician, who
ministers to the statue.

There is an impressive picture of St. Bernard
attired in his ecclesiastical robes, the star’chain in
one hand, the staff of ofﬁce in the other, a halo
round his head, his left foot on the prostrate and

 




 

64 Progress Today—The Humanitarian and AntieVivisection Review

frustrated demon against the background of Mons
Jovis on the one side and Columna Jovis on the
other, which is well worth contemplation.

My book is a little vague in relating how the
brigands were dispersed and the missing pilgrim
restored. Sufﬁce it to say here that having, blessed
the mountain and planted a cross, Bernard

 

. "Mo «Jan:

 

 

 

 

 

St. Bernard, foot on Demon.

descended and was received with the acclamati'ons
of the people. A Te Deum was sung in the
cathedral of Aosta. But the eye of Jupiter still
remained “ an evil symbol ”——-Bernard again
ascended the mountain, this time alone, but pro,
tected by St. Nicholas and his guardian angel.
Approaching the column of porphyry Bernard
brolcile the eye of Jupiter and threw its dust to the
Win 5.

Back in Aosta, Bernard vi'sualises a great hospice
built to succour pilgrims and travellers to render
praise to God. He sets to work, making plans,
seeking the help of the Church and those endowed
with the means to give ﬁnancial help. The hospice
was built about 1049.

Those who imagine that saints and mystics are
persons without practical ability, without knOW'
ledge of the world and its ways, may well study
the records of his life, his power of organisation,
his journeys and eﬂicient ministry. He built a
second Hospice——Petit Saint Bernard. He over'
came diﬂiculties, inspired others to give service and
help, travelled extensively, retaining the direction
of his Houses of Hospitality and Worship,
ministered to souls in the dioceses of Aosta, Sion,
Geneva, Milan, beloved by the people. He
travelled to Rome, “ Victorieux de tous les
obstacles.” His fame had preceded him and the
Pope blessed his undertakings, placing them under

the direct protectorate of the Holy See.
“Miracles ” were never absent from his life.
(Our materialists do not know that the

“ miraculous " is but the operation of higher laws.)
He changed Mountains of Gloom to Mountains of
Glory—the words of Ruskin, the lover of beauty,
may not be inappropriate in association with the

life of St. Bernard.

Bernard de Menthon died in 1081* at Novara;
his canonisation followed soon. The Hospice
which had been called the House of St. Nicholas
of Mons Jovis became known as that of St.
Bernard. By an Apostolic Letter of August 20th,
1923, addressed to the Bishop of Annecy, Pius XI
made St. Bernard the Patron of Alpine regions and
alpinists. “ We give St. Bernard cle Menthon as
celestial Patron not only to the inhabitants of the
Alps and its visitors, but to all who undertake ascen'
sions of the mountains.” A commemorative tablet
attached to a statue of St. Bernard contains the
following:

PIUS XI PONT. MAX.
STUDIOSUS OLIM LUSTRATOR ALPIUM

ANNO MDCCCCXXIII
EARUNDEM INCOLIS ADVENISQUE
ME PATRONUM DEDIT
VOS QUI SECURI ME PRXESTITE SCANDITIS ALPES
C(ELESTEM MECUM PERGITE ADUSQUE DOMUM.

Hospitality and Worship

Legend, tradition, belief and history mix in the
story of the great development and extension of
the Hospice on the great Pass. The congregation
of monks grew in inﬂuence and power. Many
donations and legacies were received. In 1177 the
Hospice had 78 possessions—churches, hospitals,
farms in Vaud, Fribourg, Valais, Savoie, France
and England. Henry II of England, in token of
gratitude for hospitality given to his envoys, made
a gift to the Hospice of a church and a house at
Havering, Sussex. In 15 5 7 a ﬁre destroyed the

 

 

* There are great divergencies of opinion in regard to dates and those
given in Vie de Saint Bernard de Menthon, written by a Chanoine
at the Monastery are not accepted by other writers. This book gives
the year of the foundation of the Hospice as 968 and the death of
St. Bernard at Novara as June 13th, 1007.

 

 

 




 

 

‘ 1678, is today beautiful and of great distinction.

 

 

April/lune, 1937.

Hospice, which, rebuilt and enlarged, has passed
through many vicissitudes, including loss of pos’
sessions. In the seventeenth century the Hospice

.had lost nearly all its domains in protestant

countries. In 1847 it again suffered serious ﬁnan’
cial loss. A series of devoted and cultured Provosts
have successfully resisted opposition and difﬁculties,
increased the efﬁciency of the Hospice and contri'
buted to its world’fame. The Church, rebuilt in

........

The Church of the Hospice of Grand St. Bernard.

The monks are Canons Regular of the Order of
St. Augustine. They have distinguished themselves
1n the study of philosophy, theology, history and
llterature. , Among them have been many scholars
who have made valuable contributions to these
branches of learning, as well as to that of natural
history, botany and mineralogy. In the domain of
these latter studies interesting new data have been
collected by the monks. Their discovery of the
foundations of Jupiter’s Temple and the many
coms and other objects of great antiquity found
by them have thrown light on some phases of
human history hitherto unknown.

  
   

65'

The keynote of the Hospice has been hospitality.
In 1794, ’5 0,000 French refugees, ﬂeeing from terror,
traversed the Alps by Grand St. Bernard.
Formerly, through the centuries, travellers were
received as hOnoured guests, lodged and fed with’
out charge. They were expected to make an
offering to the Hospice when they had means to
do so. But there was no pressure, no reminder,
as I can testify. The time came when the modern
tourists coming up in their careless and inquisitive
thousands by charabanc and autocar made the old
freedom impossible. Generosity was often repaid
by meanness. Visitors came who counted on the
“ cheapness ” of the excursion to Grand St.
Bernard. It became necessary to build an hotel.

It is calculated that at least 20,000 travellers
were entertained free every year. There were
times when as many as 5' 00 visitors spent the night
there. The travellers are drawn from every class
and come from- many lands. From the poorest
wanderer in search of some means to live to the
crowned heads of great nations, they are, one and
all, welcomed in the same simple and generous
spirit. For the disinherited children of the earth
there are warm clothes and helping hands as well
as the lavish meal which is set for all visitors
without distinction.

Among the many royal visitors to the Hospice '

have been Queen Victoria of England and Edward
VII, when Prince of Wales, and the Crown Prince
and Crown Princess of Germany (the late Empress
Frederick). The King and Queen of Italy have
often been the guests of the monks of Grand

St. Bernard.
The Dogs

There can be no doubt about the attraction
exercised by the famous dogs. Thousands of
visitors come to Grand St. Bernard who want,
above all, to see them.

Much has been written on the origin and anti
quity of these dogs. It is claimed that the race
came from Asia reaching, by way of Greece and
Rome, Swiss valleys, and that the existence of
the race during 20 centuries on the soil of Helvetia
entitles cynologues to call it Swiss. First employed
as a watchdog and trained to render little services
the extraordinary intelligence of these animals
caused them to be used in greater service. “ During
more than two centuries the dogs have been the
faithful companions of the monks in their difﬁcult
apostolate, they are valued assistants, very useful
in ﬁnding the path hidden by snow, in ﬁnding
persons lost in the mist or overtaken by a snow!
storm. They well deserve the praise which has been
given them; a glorious chronicle shows that the
monks, assisted by the noble animals, have saved

» x4>.w. < -,. . , .

 




 

 

 

66 Progress Today—The Humanitarian and Anti’Vivisection Review

from storm, from snow and sleet or avalanche more
than 2,000 human beings. But no one will ever
know the exact number of those saviours, monks
and dogs, who perished gloriously, victims of their
duty in bringing aid to others.”*

       

 

:-':...- ‘ - .
.' ....... ... ' swim
Reprinted from postcard.)

Edition Art. Perrochet and Phototypie S.A. Lausanne.

Notes kept at the Hospice (of which by courtesy
of the Prior, I have a copy) refer to the use of the
dogs in 1708 and to the training of them in 1800.
The Notes record that the name Bari is derived
from German patois, a diminutive of Bar, bear.
It is said the name was given to the dogs of
St. Bernard by Berne. I read in the records :—

“ 1814: Barry of the Museum in Berne. It is
stated that he saved the lives of 40 persons. On one
occasion he found a child covered with snow. He
helped it to climb on his back and carried it to the
Hospice? On another occasion he went to help a
traveller who, terriﬁed, hit him with his stick,
inﬂicting a serious wound. The dog was sent to
Berne to be treated. He died there. Now this dog

is in the Museum in Berne.”
Further:—

“ The dog Barry, whose stuffed body is to be
seen outside the sitting/room at the Hospice, saved
several lives.

 

 

* From Le Grand Saint—Bernard Phot. édit. Jaeger Genéve ROCO'S d

S.A. Geneva. (Illustrated pamphlet of 32 pages.) ’ a ag
1' See picture of monument at Asniéres showing this act of rescue,
reproduced in Pxocxnss TO'DAY, (January’March, 1937; page 12.)

"‘ ;‘__,.z‘ ;; :r‘. -_~ __;:_.' ‘T :_..* 3.; :‘.:~_A’7: —'

. ,..__,_a._.._ , . 7

One day in winter a telephone call from the
cantine at Proz announced the arrival of several
visitors. It was about 1905. A servant by name
Louis Max set out to meet them with the dog
Barry. Another servant called Paccolat accompanied
them. The weather was bad. Arrived halfway
through the valley the dog left the servant and ran
towards the Cross by Lake Ibo. Max called him
back. Shortly afterwards the dog again set off in
the same direction. Paccolat asked Max to let him
go. The dog climbed rapidly towards the lake.
Arrived at the foot of the rock near the Cross
he stopped and barked loudly. The two servants
decided to investigate. They followed the dog’s
footprints. Barry had found some unfortunate
travellers who had lost their way when trying to
follow the telephone lines. They had been unable
to recover their tracks and were exhausted by their
efforts as well as by hunger. The servants revived
them and brought them back to the Hospice. After
an exploratory climb Max returned too fatigued to
be able to attempt the high Poyet, but he was pulled
up to the top by the dog, to whose tail he held on.

This dog saved many other lives, but no record
has been kept of his other feats.”

“ On the day of the Ascension in 1912 some Germans
announced that they were leaving the cantine at Proz
for the Hospice. It was late. Séraphin and Gustave
Genoud set out to meet them. One of the dogs called
Barry. went with them. They got down to the cantine
without meeting any travellers and there they learnt that
these had turned back, being afraid of the bad weather. It
was so bad that the servants hesitated to climb back to the
Hospice. In the end they decided to start. It was then
ten o’clock and the snow was falling heavily. In the
pitch darkness the light of their lamp failed to enable
them to ﬁnd their track. From the Plan des Dames they
turned towards the Grand Lui. They soon realised their
mistake, climbed down towards the Amédée Hut and
followed the, telephone lines. In spite of this the man in
front narrowly escaped falling from Poyet des Francais
into the Drance Cataracts. Frightened, they turned back
and took the direction of the lake. Soon they had
hopelessly lost their way. Their lamp was of no use. In.
the meantime great anxiety was felt at the Hospice.
Monsieur Bourgeat and Brother Antoine walked down the
valley, but, arrived at the Tronchets, the storm was so
terrible that they decided to return for fear of losing
their'lives. During this time the lost wanderers had got
the idea of letting the dog guide them. Without a
moments hesitation he took the opposite direction to
the one they had been following, climbed down into the
valley and then began to ascend it. The men did
not in the least understand what the dog was doing and
thought that he was leading them to the Mont’Mort.
They nevertheless followed him and, at two o’clock in
the morning, they arrived at the Hospice, where Monsieur
Bourgeat. was waiting for them, pacing the corridors,
gesticulating wildly and telling his beads. When they
removed their coats these were found to be frozen stiff

and so covered with thick snow that they remained
standing on the ﬂoor.”

(Record from Se’raphin’s account, October, 1935').

._..__'."-_._. ._.._____._.__.. .—

 

 

 




 

 

 

Aprilefune, 1937.

Apart from acts of rescue, the dogs render great
service. Dogs are endowed with senses which Man
lacks, they have premonitions and instictive know’
ledge which are invaluable in the high mountains.
When the snow is very deep, when the whirlwind
and the mist obliterate all traces of the path, the
dogs with their powerful paws dig a way.

The following is taken from a little pamphlet
entitled The Hospice of St. Bernard, by Anton Duc,
Canon of St. Bernard:

“ The Hospice has about 1’5 dogs, some of them
being massive, and strong enough to carry a man.

67'

and deliverer. The St. Bernard dogs are also very
good guides. In foggy weather, and when fresh
snow has covered the paths, it is diﬂicult, without a
dog, to ﬁnd the way ; but, with a dog, one has only
to follow where he leads to be guided safely to. the
Hospice.

Once three monks went to the Italian village of
St. Rhemy. When returning home, they found the
road covered with snow and a thick fog descending
upon them. Unhappily, they had no dog, and
presently were wandering on dangerous slopes where
the snow was very deep. Later, the fog lifted and

 

 

 

 

From Grand St. Bernrd: 32 Illustrations.

Dogs Returning from Winter Work.

They are exceedingly useful, for they open the way
in the snow for the monks, or can go alone and
meet people crossing the mountain. When travellers
are lost and even covered by snow, the dogs are

able, by their scent, to help the rescuers very

materially ; they locate the spot where the unfortur
nate person may be found. In 1907, a workman
was lost while crossing the pass, because, owing to
the quickly falling snow, it was impossible to see
the path. A rescue party set out; all at once, the
dog ran in a certain direction, dug in the snow,
and quickly exposed the traveller to the gaze of
those who had come to his aid, but who might

never have found him, had it not been for the

wonderful instinct and scent of his canine friend

they found themselves a long way above the Hospice,
and in the track of avalanches.

In order to train a young dog, the monks take
him out in company with an old one when they go
on one of their expeditions for the rescue of lost
humanity. At ﬁrst the young one runs hither and
thither at random, but later, instinct coming to his
aid, he becomes steadier, and behaves like the old
one. It has already been mentioned that at times
the dogs go out alone, and act as guides by running
before the travellers, thus showing them the way to
the Hospice. . . .

These world’famed dogs do not live very long
on the mountain. The severe climate of the St.
Bernard is as trying for them as for their masters.

 




 

 

 

68 " 1' ‘ Progress Toiday——The Humanitarian and Anti’Vivisection Review

They, too, suffer from rheumatism and heart trouble,
and die at the age of nine or ten years.

The Hospice has kept the same race of dogs for
three or four centuries. The St. Bernard dog is the
result of cross breeding between a bulldog and a
pyrenean shepherd’s clog. Its hair is generally short,
and is of a tawny colour with white markings. The
dogs with long hair are eliminated because the snow
clings to it, and their movements are hindered.
The St. Bernard dog, though massive in build, is
mild, faithful, courageous and obedient.”

 

A typical case of rescue is related by the same author:-

“ In the month of November, 1874, eight Italian work,
men arrived one night, and, in spite of warnings, insisted
on setting out from the Hospice on the following day.-
.Six monks and a servant therefore accompanied them.
When they had proceeded on their journey for about
.three hours, walking in snow all the time, a large
avalanche descended on the party, covering three monks,
‘ﬁve workmen, the servant and the dog. Those who were
not engulfed in the snow, set to work, dug out a monk
.and four workmen. The dog extricated himself, and ran
alone to the Hospice to announce the accident to the
Superior, who knew at once by the dog's cries and
behaviour that an avalanche must have overwhelmed the
whole company. All the remaining monks at once went
to the rescue, and after ﬁve hours‘ walk to the scene of
:the accident, dug diligently and found a monk and a
workman so badly frozen that they died soon afterwards.
The return to the Hospice was a sad and tiring one, six

hours being occupied by the journey. All were exhausted
by fatigue and cold. The dead were taken to the Morgue,
the monks being subsequently buried at the Bernard, the
servant in his parish, while the bodies of the workmen
remained in the Morgue until their relatives carried them

Telephone and Skis

The installation of the telephone at the Hospice

and in neighbouring villages has done much to.

mitigate the dangers of travel. Formerly, in winter,
the monks with their dogs started out every
morning on both sides of the Pass to look for
travellers. Now warning can be and often is given
by telephone that travellers are on their way. Skis
were ﬁrst used by the monks in 1883, two pairs
having been obtained from Norway. The use of
skis has greatly facilitated expeditions to render aid
to people who are “lost ” or exhausted. But the
statement which has been made that modern
“inventions ” have rendered the use of the dogs
unnecessary is not true.

The St. Bernard Dog as a Friend

It so happens that I know well that eminent
example of canine intelligence and charm, the St.
Bernard dog. I have met many. I have paid
several visits to the Hospice. I have played with
the dogs, talked to them, studied them. 'Long ago,
to be exact on September 3rd, 1902, I visited the
Hospice and enjoyed a game with the dogs. There
is a little snapshot of this early encounter which is
here enlarged and reproduced. There I sit on the
ground by the lake, surrounded by the dogs. They
did not eat my straw hat which was very much to
the fore. There is another snapshot of my friend
Leisa K. Schartau talking on the same day to three
of the dogs. You will see that they thOught her
great fun, though refraining from having a tug at
the handsome gathering of her long skirt. That
visit took place in the happy days when there was
no hotel at the Hospice and no autocars to bring
hundreds of “ trippers.” One had to walk or come
up by a small, narrow horse’drawn carriage, innocent
of modern springs and comfort. We had been 16
hours on the way coming from the village in the
high mountains in Valais where we stayed.

During subsequent visits to the Hospice I have
alwaysenjoyed the friendliness and good temper of
successwe specimens of the race. In 1934—after a
severe illness and doctors’ advice to do nothing of
the sort—~I drove my car to the Hospice and had
long.“ talks ” with the dogs. Shortly afterwards I
publlshed my impressions of the conditions under
whlch the dogs were kept, criticising the arrange’
ments made and the accommodation given them.
The difﬁculties of life at Grand St. Bernard must,
however, be borne in mind: the extreme cold in

7 3' ' A— .,
7‘ .

 

 

 




   
      

. . v- a} h- .va-O-fr.
From " Grand St. Bernard.”

' A Victim of the Avalanche. Edition Société Gmphique S.A._. Ncuchatel.
3

 

   

(t'mm bnapshot, beptembc'r 1902.)

L. Lind’avaageby with the Dogs of Grand St. Bernard.

 

_‘. ~ ‘.,._,~ , .» .~,...-_«.,..,,

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

70 Progress Today—The Humanitarian and Anti/Vivisection Review

winter, the depths of snow which make ordinary
kennel arrangements impossible, the invasion of
“ trippers ” in summertime. Some of these visitors,
as I have seen, think teasing the dogs and making
them furious the height of bliss to be found on such
an excursion.

But my knowledge of the character of the St.
Bernard dog is not conﬁned to visits to the Hospice.
For twelve years I was the owner (unfortunate
expression: we cannot really “ own ” an animal) of
a St. Bernard dog. Elsewhere in book form, I have
told part of the story of this dog*—superrintelligent,

 

beautiful, loving, faithful, interesting, a bundle of
virtues and sins (like most humans), who gave proof

* On Immortality: A Letter to a Dog,~by L. Lind’afeHageby (The
Animal Defence SoCiety: 1’5, St. James’s Place London, S.W.l.
Price Is.) Written during the War, and published in aid of our work
for sick and onnded army horses, it was favourably reviewed in several
papers. The Scotsman gladdened my heart by writing:——-“ It is a little
essay, very charmingly written. describing the career and character of
her St. Bernard dog, the philosophic point of the essay 'being the
subtle drawing of the parallel between the dog’s faults and virtues
and the traits on which mankind (and especially man) pride themselves
as evidence of a higher destiny." And Our Dogs helped the sale of
the little book by “. . . a most fascinating dog story . . . this
interesting story of the purchase by her in her Alpine home of a
St. Bernard puppy, Barry (not, of course, the original Barry of the
Hospice of St. Bernard fame), and the description of his life and
characteristics, his intelligence, antics and emotions, all oflwhich she
compares with those of humans, and draws a ﬁxed inference that the
dog has a soul and a future, the same as man." I do not quote
these opinions to induce my readers to obtain the book—it.,is. nearly
out of print—but to show the thoughts which were expressed.

 

of selfrsacriﬁce, generosity, tenderness to the weak,
jealousy, anger, combativeness, ferocity, calculated
plans to deceive, humble repentance and proud self’
assertion—in short a mind. My Barry—of course,
he was called Barry—was not an altogether “ good ”
dog. His life in the mountains and in London was
by no means blameless. There were dliﬁcultles from
the beginning.

I quote. from the book mentioned, A Letter to
a Dog :——‘

Pugnacity is your outstanding failing or virtue (I leave
the decision to moralists). I remember well the day

(From Snapshot, September, 1902.)

when I ﬁrst claimed possession of your puppy life. You
had seen the light of day at the foot of the great glacier,
in the cellar of the guides hut. Four months old you were
brought out of your underground nursery, a big,,clumsy,
knottedrup lump of dog, eyeing me suspiciously. The
guide’s wife saw the temptation which you proved to me

vfromthe ﬁrst. "" The only. one left of the litter," she

said, “ and only 30 francs.” I paid the money, impro'
vised a collar and strap, and started out on the long
mountain walk home to my cottage. The path was rough
and stony, Sometimes precipitous. Like so many other
of life's walks, there was ﬁrst a steep descent skirting
precipices, followed by a laborious ascent (you do not
know anything about Darwin or Religion, and I advise
you not to puzzle too much over this sentence).

.VYou followed me gingerly, sometimes walking a few
minutes, movrng your four feet in canine regulation order,

 

 

Lu

 

 




 

 

 

A prilrjune, 193 '7.

sometimes giving me food for reﬂection by planting them
ﬁrmly, 9’ toes well spread out in the ﬂint of the path,
refusing further exercise. I turned round facing you
sternly, placed my heels in imitation of your toes and
pulled. You pulled one way and I the other. You did
not whimper: you glared at me. and when you got tired
you sat down, straining your neck and back to keep me
steady. '

I smiled kindly at you, bent down, patted you, and
said, “ Poor little doggie, it wants to go home, yes it does,

poor, poor little doggie.” And I pretended not to notice

the look of contempt which you gave me. One violent
tug and we were again en route for the mountain
opposite. But I had not reckoned with the mountain
strength that was in your limbs, or with the mountain
wiles with which those born on the hills know how to
beguile the people of the plains. “ He is becoming
docile,” I thought, as we were nearing a narrow path by
the side of a precipice, and you followed me with
apparent meekness. Suddenly you jumped straight into
the yawning chasm, and the strip of leather in my hand
very nearly followed. But I managed to grip it before
you had time to disappear, and then followed our ﬁrst
great ﬁght. You beat a tattoo on the rock with your
four feet, hanging by the collar in frantic efforts to rid
yourself of me. I held on, pulling as hard as I could,
but with an uncomfortable feeling that the slippery, dry
pine’needles on the path were in league with you, and
that the termination of our struggle lay in the cold water
of the mountain stream 1,000 feet below. I do not know
how many pounds of dog were opposed to me at the
time, I do know that when ﬁnally I hauled you safely
back over the edge of the rock, we both sat down
exhausted, eyeing each other with a new interest. A
good ﬁghter knows when he is beaten: you followed
me home without further discussion.

An old peasant friend of mine blocked the path as
we were drawing near your new home. “You have
bought a dangerous beast,” he said to me, “ look out,
he has got the red eye.“ You heard it, and permitted
yourself a ﬂeeting smile, showing that though your eye
was red your teeth were white as pearls.

This is not the time to write the complete story
of my Barry, of the blessings of his companionship,
the insight he gave me into the mind of an animal,
of his devotion and uncanny knowledge of events.
Years ago, in 1913, I wrote in this journal an
article entitled After the Battle. It was an ex,
pression of gratitude to all who had helped me by
sympathy and support in the long action for libel
in which I was the plaintiff. Barry was not the least
amongst those who made it possible for me to
continue the struggle for justice to animals. I wrote
then and I endorse it now :—-— '

I remember the evening when I “lost” the
action. It had continued during three weeks and
a half, with sixteen days of hard ﬁghting, and when
I entered my study I felt tired—that tiredness

which is corrosive, which comes when the mind”

forgets the daylight, the truth and the life. When
I tried to turn on the electric light, it failed. The
room was wrapped in darkness, and I was alone.
The silence after the din of the Law Courts seemed
ﬁlled with a thousand mocking voices.

71

Then the door burst open; galloping in came my
great, true St. Bernard dog, my companion of seven
years. He pushed his wet nose against my cheek,
and whined in loud protest against my cold
welcome. He wanted an answer. And awakening
from my temporary lethargy, I arose, put my hand
on his massive, thoughtful head, and said, “ I will
answer you, now and always.”

Game the day in London in 1918 when Barry,
after a long illness, lay dying. He had suffered
much pain. Weariness; the night had been one
long, panting misery. He tried to raise himself from
his bed on the ﬂoor, his strength had gone, even
a faint whine had become impossible. Then, as
I sat by him and the moment of death approached,
a strange, vivid light ﬁlled the eyes of the dog.
He gathered strength—from where I do not know
—raised himself up, put his head .close to mine
and looking with clear and strangely luminous
eyes straight into mine, tried to say something.

Then he fell back—dead.

In my heart I knew what he tried to say: “ I
go but I shall continue to love you. And you,
will you be true to the great task of making men
understand us .7 ”

And I replied: “ Barry, I will be true, now and
always.” ,

And on the stone which marks Barry’s grave in
the beautiful London garden of a friend, the
inscription runs :—

In memory of Barry, the immortal dog who had
a genius for friendship and an understanding sure
passing the words of man and who thereby laid
the obligation of continuous work on behalf of
suffering animals on those who loved him.

Born in the Alps 1906.
Died in London, june 20th, 1918.

Destroying the Dogs

In May, 1937, short notices appeared in the Press
relating that the dogs of Grand St. Bernard had
attacked and killed a visitor, a little girl. The
news was shocking and almost incredible to those
who from personal experience know the dogs, their
intelligence, docility and capacity to render help.
It happened on May 16th. A Swiss physician with
wife and three children had undertaken a holiday
excursion on skis to the Hospice. Arrived at
Cantine de Proz they telephoned to the Hospice
announcing their arrival. The chanoine who replied
asked if help were needed and an offer was made
to come and meet the party. The reply was given
that such help was not necessary. As the family
approached the Hospice one of the girls, aged 10,
was allowed to go ahead on skis, the father, mother

 




 

 

 

'72 ‘ Progress Today—The Humanitarian and Anti’Vivisection Review

and two other children (aged 11 and 10) following
at a little distance. In the immediate vicinity of
the Hospice the child disappeared from sight; there
was a sound of loud barking. Two monks, descend,
ing, passed the family. When the father turned
the corner arriving at the summit he saw to his
horror the little girl on the ground, surrounded by
barking and quarrelling dogs. Hurrying to the
spot he dispersed the dogs. The child was dying.
There were wounds caused by bites. No one had
seen what actually happened, how the child fell or
how she met the dogs. The tragedy was terrible;
the grief of the family calls for the deepest
sympathy; no friend of dogs can possibly make
light of such a dreadful happening. People have
asked—with some justification—why a little girl of
10 was permitted to go alone to the top. The
tragedy naturally caused indignation, criticism of
the monks and their ways of controlling the dogs.

All the dog/haters who read the tragic news were
jubilant: “ See,” they told us, “ what dogs really
are. Savage beasts, praised, endowed with virtues
they do not possess by silly people.” , And
opponents of better legislation for the protection
of dogs and other animals rejoiced: here was a
concrete and startling case of animal criminality.
This would certainly, they thought, help to keep
dogs safe as the favourite subjects of vivisectional
experiments. The chain, the whip, the narrow cage
for dogs—but no more sentimental talk about dogs
saving life! And so the term “ the murder dogs ”
became popular in circles where men only exploit
dogs. The beautiful traditions of Grand St.
Bernard were obscured by grossly exaggerated tales,
based on ignorance and hate.

The bereaved father demanded that all the dogs
should be killed and that the monks should formally
relinquish the breeding of dogs at Grand St.
Bernard. No more puppies should be allowed to
grow up into possible criminals.

 

Edition Jaeger, Gcnéve.

Puppy at Grand St. Bernard.

 

We live in times when the newspapers day by
day record terrible crimes of violence, robbery,
jealousy, murder and destruction of every kind
committed by human beings.’ Science has put
new and modern weapons in the hands of the
nonrmoral. New wars, fought by dropping bombs
on women, children and nonvcombatants of all
classes, by using poison gas and every abomination
in the technique of killing invented by the brain
of man are the order of the day. In calling for
condemnation of dogs, found to have behaved with
appalling lack of restraint, do not let us forget
the deeds of men in the twentieth century. Maybe
the infection of man's ferocity has “ descended ” to
dogs? Above all, let us retain—-even under diﬂicult
circumstances—a sense of proportion. “ Civilisa’
tion ” of today ﬁlls many thoughtful people with
despair.

The Offer

I was in Paris in June engaged in a struggle
against the delays in the preparation of the Exhibi’
tion at our Pavilion Zoophilia, when I read in the
morning papers that there would be no prosecution
if the monks agreed to kill all the dogs and to
abandon further breeding of dogs at the Hospice.

I thought of the consequences if such action were
taken, of the harm which would be done. The
deep sympathy I felt for the bereaved family was
not inconsistent with a desire to help to preserve
the traditions of Grand St. Bernard. And after
much reﬂection I sent the following telegram to
the Prior of the Hospice of Grand St. Bernard :-—

“ In view of the great value of preserving the
traditions of Grand St. Bernard of humane acts in
saving the life of travellers perishing in the snow,
I offer you in the name of the International
Humanitarian Bureau, 4, Cour St. Pierre, Geneva,
the sum of 15,000 Swiss francs for the construction
with our co’operation of spacious, suitable, and
heated kennels in order to save these ﬁne dogs.
Having lately visited the Hospice and having owned
during 12 years a St. Bernard dog of the breed
from the Hospice, a faithful and intelligent friend,
I beg you to accept my offer.”

L. Lind/af’Hageby,
President,
International Humanitarian Bureau,
. Geneva. ,

This happened on June 8th. On the following
day I received a telegram :—

“ We thank you cordially for your oﬂer. We
believe that thanks to your generosity we can carry
out another plan for our dogs. Explanatory letter
follows."

Prior, Hospice of
Grand St. Bernard.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

A prilJune, 19 3 7 .

Public Opinion in Support
of the Offer

My offer was published in the Daily Mail (Paris
Edition) of June 9th, together with my statement
to the Press :-—~ _

“ The International Humanitarian Bureau, being .well
aware of the conditions under which the dogs exist at
the Hospice, is convinced that the provision of up’tOrdate
kennels with adequate ground for exercise will eliminate
the ‘ ferocity' which has caused so much trouble."

Great Press publicity throughout the world
followed. Paris Soir came out with a front page
notice of the offer, Figaro published it under
Actualite’s Internationales, L’Intransigeant gave
prominent place to the offer and the reply. Action
Frangaise wrote: “ These dogs, which have given
so many proofs of courage and devotion, deserve
to be saved.” There were announcements and
sympathetic comment in Le Matin, Le Petit
Parisien, New York Herald’Tribune, the Daily
Telegraph, Times, Referee, Sunday Times, Evening
Standard, Reynolds Illustrated News, Belfast Teler
graph, The Teachers World and Schoolmistress,
Berliner Tageblatt (a well displayed article of
historical interest), Telegraaf (Amsterdam), Magyar,
Sag (Budapest), Neues Wiener ]ournal, Republica

73

(Lisbon), Dagens Nyheter (Stockholm), Svenska
Morgonbladet (Stockholm), etc.

The Press of Switzerland showed great interest
in the offer. Notices appeared in journal de
Genéve, La Tribune de Genéve, La Suisse, La
Gazette de Lausanne, Feuille d’Avis de Neuchatel,
Courrier de Vevey, Basler Nachrichten, Volksrecht
(Zi'irich), Oberlander Tagblatt, Nouvelliste Valaisan,
L’Express de Neuchatel (under the heading “ Un
Geste Charitable ”), L’Action (Geneve), Journal
d’Tverdon, Feuille d’Avis de Lausanne, Patric
Valaisanne, Berner Taghlatt, Confe'de’re', Tribune
de Lausanne, Suisse Libe’rale, Schweizer Wochen’
Zeitung, Bundner Tagblatt, Neue Berner Nach’
richten, Neue Argauer Zeitung, Briger Anzeiger,
and scores of others.

These are but a few amongst hundreds of Press
notices.

The unexpected avalanche of publicity, of letters
and telephone messages, of warm sympathy with
my action and angry denunciation (on the part of
a few) showed that my estimation of the impor’
tance to humanitarian tradition of the dogs of
Grand St. Bernard had not been wrong. In another
article I shall tell the rest of the story and give an
account of my visit to the Hospice.

(To be continued.)

 

 

President: THE DUCHESS OF HAMILTON

the treatment of animals.

exhibitions. demonstrations. etc.

Hon. Treasurer: MISS B. C. DELIUS.

 

 

Why You should become a Member of

THE ANIMAL DEFENCE AND ANTI-VIVISECTION SOCIETY

l5, ST. jAMES'S PLACE, ST. JAMES’S STREET, LONDON, S.W.l.
And at 4, COUR ST. PIERRE, GENEVA, SWITZERLAND.

The Society has been in existence 3| years and has worked strenuously to suppress cruelty in every form.
and to create a spirit of mercy and iustice in the treatment of animals. The Society carries on a vigorous
campaign to reform the methods of slaughter and transport. to end the horrors of the steel-trap and the fur
traffic. to expose the cruelties of the bull-fight. the rodeo. spectacles and sports which are based on the
suffering of animals. to abolish vivisection and generally to awaken feeling and understanding in regard to

The influence of the Society is world-wide. Many hundred societies in a number of countries are associated
with the work of the Animal Defence Society. It stands for the principle that the cause of humanity to animals
is not a side-issue. but a vital part of civilisation and social development. The Society therefore seeks to
introduce humane education in every school. The Society's active campaigns for reform are carried out by
means of meetings, lectures. extensive distribution of publications. press publicity. international congresses.

The Society has: Organised a Deputation. supported by over I.400 Animal Protection Societies. to the
President of the Conference for the Reduction and Limitation of Armaments in Geneva. emphasising the
importance of humane education and animal protection as civilising influences in the furtherance of inter-
national peace. Aprill I932. Built a Model Humane Abattoir at Letchworth. Organised demonstrations of
Humane Slaughter in London. Letchworth. Paris. Geneva. and other towns. Maintains permanent Humane
Exhibitions in London and Geneva. Organised the Sections relating to the protection of animals. in the Lord
Mayor's Processions through London in I929 and I930. Maintains two motor caravans for purposes of
education and agitation. Organised during the European War. veterinary hospitals for sick and wounded horses
of the French Army under the authority of the French War Office. Maintained for some years a shop in
Piccadilly, London. for making known the facts about Vivisection. Has organised great International
Congresses and initiated vigorous Parliamentary Campaigns. The Society's publications cover a wide range
of subiiects, present facts and opinions of value to every humanitarian who seeks enlightenment.

Member's Annual Subscription. I05.: Life Membership. £5: Associate's. 2s. 6d. Cheques and Postal
Orders should be made payable to The Animal Defence and Anti-Vivisection Society. I5. St. James's
Place. London. S.W.l. Bankers: The Midland Bank. 36. Old Bond St.. W.|. Telephone: Regent 0845.

Secretary. International Humanitarian Bureau. Geneva: MRS. M. E. MORDAN.

Hon. Director and Founder: MISS LIND-AF-HAGEBY

Secretary: MISS L. K. SCHARTAU

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

~74 3. Progress ‘To’day—The Humanitarian and Anti’Vivisection Review

The Health Education and Research Council

Lectures byDorothy Mazel, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P.; Cyril V. Pink, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P.;

B. P. Allinson, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P.; R. Fielding’Ould, M.D., M.R.C.P.,
and M. Beddow Bayly, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P.

The first series of public lectures to be held under
the auspices of the Health Education and Research
Council was given during April and May at 15, St.
James’s Place, S.W.1.

Five in number, and widely advertised, they were
extremely well attended and the appreciative
interest of the audiences showed itself in the large
number of questions with which each lecturer was
plied at the conclusion of his address.*

The lecturers, all Advisory Members of the
Council, were B. P. Allinson, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P.,,
M. Beddow Bayly, M.R.C.S., R. Fielding’Ould,
M.D., M.R.C.P.,‘ Dorothy Mazel, M.R.C.S.,
L.R.C.P., and Cyril V. Pink, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P.

The ﬁrst lecture, given by Dorothy Mazel,
M.R.C.S., was entitled

“ Children and Repressive

Treatments ”

In her opening remarks the lecturer contrasted
the outlook of the orthodox allopathic physician
with that of the Nature/cure practitioner towards
the more common ailments, with particular reference
to the necessity of treating the patient as a whole
and not as a mere assortment of unrelated parts;
consequently, of regarding local symptoms as an
indication on the part of Nature of her efforts to
readjust a general disturbance of the body’s
functions.

Dr. Mazel showed how this rational approach
to disease treatment was shared by wise physicians
of the past as well as by modern Homoeopaths and
Naturopaths. Passing reference was also made to
.y the illuminating theories of Dr. William F. Koch,
of Detroit, which, based upon the pure chemistry
of the body, and borne out by clinical experience,
showed that lack of “ Natural Immunity ” to disease
is primarily due to the presence of chemical sub,
stances of certain molecular structure which
interfere with the normal oxidation processes of the
cells and thus stimulate disordered growth or

 

* Copies of each of these lectures may be obtained in pamphlet
form from The Health Education and Reward.) Council, 15,
St. James's Place, London, S.W.1V. (Price 6d. each, post free.)

function of‘ the organs concerned. Health was to
be regained only by restoring the normal physiolo'
gical oxidation mechanism of all the cells of the
body—not by attacking or suppressing some local
symptoms by which the disordered metabolism had
made itself manifest.

True Medicine, as the lecturer put it, was thus
seen to deal with Life, the power behind the living
body.

As instances of the prevalent forms of repressive
treatments Dr. Mazel dealt ﬁrst with the practice
of heavy drug dosage, notably in cases of infectious
fevers and of skin disease ; secondly, with surgery
which skilfully removes offending organs that are
the danger signals by which the body expresses its
need of help, while often leaving the underlying
toxic condition entirely untouched. The tonsil,
the appendix and the colon gave scope for the illus’
tration of her argument.

The third repressive treatment dealt with was the
use of inoculation with the virus of a disease, or even
of a different disease as in smallpox vaccination;
the fourth, Protein’shock Therapy, and lastly
Immunisation Therapy, which the lecturer described
as “ homceopathy gone mad,” the chief point of
difference being the minuteness of the dose in
homceopathic practice and the fact that neither in
the discovery of the remedy nor in its testing for

potency did Homoeopathy cause any suffering t‘
ammals.

In the latter part of her lecture Dr. Maze}
discussed in a startling manner some of the
pernicious hygienic habits which are customarily
imposed upon children, including overvclothing,
sitting still in a chair, wrongly directed exercise,
eating or drinking when not hungry or thirsty and
too rapidly, faulty bowel activity, and so on.

Childish ailments, the lecturer concluded, were
to be fought, not when the child is already ill,
but .m the antenatal period, or even before con,
ception, by laying the foundation of that Natural
Immunity which will eventually become the

heritage of those who follow the natural way of
11v1ng.

The second‘lecture was given by Cyril V. Pink,
M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., his subject being

 

 

 




 

 

 

A pril’Iune, 19 3 7 .

“Diet and the Coming Generation”

Dr. Pink began by giving an interesting account of
the antenatal hygiene carried out at his Maternity
Home and based upon the experience gained from
the observation of 1,500 expectant mothers and
some hundreds of their babies.

As the result of the ﬂesh/free diet advocated,
consisting largely of raw fruit and vegetables in
the form of salads, he claimed that none of these
mothers gave cause for any anxiety on account
either of kidney trouble during pregnancy or of
fever after childbirth. In addition, the same clean,
vital diet was found to be most beneﬁcial during
lactation. His experience bore out the contention
of the dietitian, Dr. Bircher Benner, that less
protein is needed whenpa large proportion of the
food taken is in the raw state.

One of the immediate beneﬁts of this reformed
diet during pregnancy was seen in the greater
chances of normal child’birth engendered by the
feeling of well/being, physical, mental and
emotional, established in the mother.

Dr. Pink then outlined the type of diet
prescribed at various periods after weaning, the
outstanding feature of which lay in the entire
absence of ﬂesh’products and a limitation of cereal,
starch to one meal a day. This régime he claimed
protected the child against catarrh, enlarged
tonsils and adenoids and similar complaints, and
also promoted most satisfactory growth, clear skins
and good tempers. Moreover, when heavily
infected with measles or chickenpox such children
frequently developed only very mild attacks and
recovered without the usual unfortunate after!
effects.

Further experience had shown that it was
possible to wean children on to a diet of fresh
fruit and vegetables, entirely eliminating cows’ milk,
which at best is never a clean food and is often
a dangerous one under the prevailing conditions of
collection and distribution.

Success along these lines, Dr. Pink pointed out,
is dependent to a very large extent upon the
willingness, conﬁdence and cooperation of the
parents or others in charge of the regime ; 1n the
absence of these factors it might be wiser to keep
to the more old/fashioned dietary ; for the achieve,
ment of right relationship with the child was
essential to satisfactory management. In the milk’

free regime the protein of cows’ milk was replaced .

by protein of vegetable origin such as that obtainable
from nuts, pulses and the Soya bean. In the
lecturer’s experience cows’ milk was unnecessary for
the upbringing of children ; in fact, those who had
been reared on the reformed diet were by comparison

75.

better developed physically, achieved better health,
and were psychologically much less irritable than
other children, although. equally alert.

In this new regime the lecturer saw the method of
the future which would play an important part
both in the physical and in the spiritual progress
of the race through succeeding generations.

The third lecture was given by B. P. Allinson,
M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., and bore the title

“ Unnecessary Operations ”

In his opening remarks the lecturer emphasized
the important part which N ature’cure played in
checking the increasing tendency towards surgical
interference in innumerable conditions which called
for more fundamental treatment, in the absence of
which the underlying causes of the disease’condition
remained untouched. No doubt the skill of the
surgeon would remain a necessary adjunct to
sounder methods in some cases, but the trend of
thought was towards a wider recognition of the
truth embodied in the welliknown statement that
(apart from accidents) every operation was a cone
fession of failure on the part of a physician.

Dr. A’llinson then proceeded to discuss examples
of surgical operations which he would term in a
large measure unnecessary.

Beginning at the head he instanced nasal operar
tions for removal of cartilage or opening the antra
or sinuses in patients suffering from catarrh, hay»
fever, asthma or deafness. In many cases seen.
subsequently by the physician the condition had.
been made worse ; how much easier it would have.
been to deal with the primary condition without
the extra complications consequent upon the opera/-
tive failure. Many acute infections of the head.
such as sinusitis or antral infection yielded satis’
factorily to fasting, and the more chronic conditions:
to combined fasting and dieting.

Passing on to ear conditions Dr. Allinson could
see no justiﬁcation for the operation of piercing“
the drum in cases of abscess; an abscess in the
ear should be treated as in other parts of the-
body and allowed to break through naturally and
so avoid spreading infection by opening up healthy-
tissues by the knife. The one advantage of
puncture of the drum—relief of pain—could be
achieved equally by the application of drops of
anhydrous glycerine.

In the case of mastoid abscess, similar principles-
applied. It was a serious thing to ﬁnd from the-
Registrar/General tables that the mortality from
mastoid disease was steadily rising. Since most of
these cases would have been operated upon it
indicated that in spite of the utmost technical skilI
the surgeon was unable to save life by his
interference.

 




 

 

"/6 i i ' Progress Today-«The Humanitarian and Anti’Vivisectio'n Review

There was reason to believe that if all these
cases had been treated by fasting together with
hydropathic methods the mortality would deﬁnitely
have been less.

Then with regard to tonsils and adenoids there
was an appalling amount of unnecessary surgery
carried out upon these inoffensive organs, based
upon the popular fallacy that an enlarged tonsil is
a danger, and scientiﬁcally encouraged by the
prevalent fashion of hunting for a “ septic focus,”
as it is called, in the course of modern treatment
for chronic disease’conditions. People were
advised to have their children’s tonsils removed
for a variety of reasons, and, like most reasons,
there was a little truth in them occasionally; on
the whole, however, no attempt was made to get
at the cause of the enlargement, so that in the end
the child was not only deprived of useful organs
but was left with the underlying disorder precisely
as it was before the operation. This disorder,
the lecturer maintained, was in such cases largely
to be attributed to excessive use of cows’ milk,
sugar and cereals.

If children were properly reared on hard and
raw food and refused these “ milky, sloppy,
starchy, sugary foods, and if they get an adequate
amount of fresh air, there need be no fear and
the condition will be outgrown in the great majority
of cases.” ’

With regard to abdominal surgery Dr. Allinson
instanced ulceration as a condition where an
operation is unnecessary and, in his experience,
frequently a failure. In such conditions he wOuld
emphasise the importance of the non/toxic diet,
that is, avoiding all poisons, especially tea, coffee,
tobacco, alcohol, and all ﬂesh foods, under which
régime ulcers not only heal but remain healed—-
an important consideration.

Then there was the appendix, about which even
the orthodox had very different views. In his
experience, if acute appendix conditions are fasted
with complete rest, local compresses and daily
enemata, they subside perfectly satisfactorily and
the patients recover. An exception must be made
in the case of a perforation, for which there appears
to be no alternative to operation.

Regarding the kidneys Dr. Allinson was of the
opinion that some surgery—for instance, for the
removal of certain types of stone which cannot
easily be dissolved either by fasting or by a
restricted diet—could not at present be avoided.

‘ As to operations upon the womb, especially for
fibroid growth, many unnecessary operations were
performed. He had seen quite a large number
of such tumours, ranging in size from a plum
to a football dispersed by Nature/cure methods;

others had remained but had caused no trouble.

° Operation was to be advised in cases marked by

excessive haemorrhage or pressure symptoms.

In the case of prostatic enlargements, these were
now usually operated upon, but in spite of this the
mortality from the condition had been steadily
rising for some years. On the other hand, a strict
diet and general regulation of the habits of life
frequently resulted, except in case of malignancy,
in considerable improvement and quiescence of the
symptoms even with advancing years.

With regard to cancer Dr. Allinson confessed that
the surgical treatment presented a great and grave
problem, and although in his experience malignant
growths yielded considerably to dietetic treatments
of various kinds, the majority of cases must be dealt
with by orthodox methods.

In conclusion Dr. Allinson emphasized his conten’
tion that if people would live healthily and obey
nature a large number of conditions usually treated
by surgical methods would disperse, especially if
judicious fasting or a restricted diet and bther
natural forms of treatment were adopted.

In the fourth lecture of the series R. Fielding!

fOuld, M.D., M.R.C.P., spoke on the subject of

“ Principles of Nature/Cure ”

In a brief survey of the changing phases in
medical thought throughout history Dr. Fieldingr
Ould showed that the principles of Nature/curd
could claim great antiquity, being found in the
records of the Egyptians and practised by
Hippocrates.

Of recent years the attempts to extend our know,
ledge of physiology by many thousands of
experiments upon animals, which were not only
unnecessary but greatly to be deplored, had resulted
in theories of Medicine being propounded which
were misleading and wholly contrary to the prin’
ciples of Nature’cure.

Thus, in modern Medicine the signs and
symptoms presented by the patient were considered
wholly evil manifestations to be abolished at all
costs. When this had been achieved by drugs or
other repressive measures the disease was regarded
as “ cured.” On the other hand Natureopathy
regarded the symptoms as evidence of the efforts
being made by the body to cure itself by elimina’
ting the poisons which otherwise might have
caused death had they been allowed to remain.

In illustration, Dr. Fielding/Ould contrasted the
orthodox treatment of the common cold, which
not infrequently leads to serious complications
such as pneumonia, pleurisy, or bronchitis, with
that based upon Nature/cure principles.

 

 

 




 

 

 

A pril’june, 193 7.

A further example was the suppression of the
symptoms of rheumatism by drugs, a method
followed frequently by the patient developing
asthma. Under Nature’cure measures such a
condition of asthma, which may possibly have
persisted for months, could be cured in a few.
weeks because the basic cause of the original
rheumatism had been treated.

Looked at from the point of view of Nature!
opathy disease presented itself in a hundred forms
of illrhealth and perhaps a thousand symptoms,
but in itself was one basic entity, namely, the
toxic condition brought about by the accumulation
of waste products of the body’s activities. Their
elimination was the way to restore health. Basic’
ally the fans et origo mah‘ in every case was,
therefore, the same.

Not only did these poisons bring about the
various manifestations of disease according to the
situation of " weak spots ” which different individ’
uals possess, but the people who have been so
poisoned become prematurely old. In fact, Dr.
FieldingrOuld maintained, nobody is old until he
is 85 if he has been properly brought up.

The practice of these principles of Nature’cure
was widespread both in the United States and in
Germany to the great beneﬁt of patients. The
reason why in this country only a few physicians
here and there were in whole’hearted agreement
with these principles was attributed by Dr.
Fielding/Ould partly to natural conservatism and
suspicion regarding any new thing, but also to
the fact that too many doctors are impressed by
laboratory results and inclined to disparage the
purely clinical type of evidence which is all that
the Natureopath can produce in support of his
claims. One of the strongest arguments in favour
of Nature’cure methods was the fact that you
cannot ﬁnd anyone who, havmg imbibed and
understood the principles, was willing to go back
to the old methods of dosing with drugs and
injecting with vaccines and sera.

In his interesting explanation of the way in
which the poisonous waste products act in the body
Dr. Fielding’Ould pointed out that it was not only
directly upon the body as a whole, but also In!
directly through the endocrine glands which pour
their ferments into the bloodstream that they
produced their deleterious effects. This dis,
organising of the endocrine glands was of funda’
mental importance to a correct understanding of
the prevalent condition of low blood’pressure in
people, which showed itself in a constant feeling
of fatigue and depression, as well as in many other
manifestations of ill’health.

 

77

Dealing with the methods of Nature’cure in
greater detail, Dr. Fielding'Ould explained that the
ﬁrst essential was a fast, which did not mean
starvation, but consisted in restriction to dilute
fruit/juices in large quantities together with an
occasional teaspoonful of honey. Fasting on water
alone was not wise; all the desired effects of
elimination could be obtained by the former
method. This process was completed by colonic
irrigation in' order to avoid the reabsorption of
poisons which might otherwise take place.

Of course, certain ancillary measures were
beneﬁcial, such as baths, electricity in various
forms, and massage; but their value was of
secondary importance.

Finally, Dr. Fielding’Ould maintained that
Nature’cure methods not only eliminated poisons
from the body, but had a profound effect upon
the mind. Patients were surprised by the light’
ness and increased activity of their mental processes
which followed treatment. Failing memory was
restored, \ the faculty of concentration improved,
and the senses rendered more acute. In addition,
“ an increased appreciation of the more spiritual
forces of our nature, intuition, sympathy, love and
other expressions of our intellectual and emotional
life is quickened into being.”

The ﬁfth and ﬁnal lecture of the series was given
by M. Beddow Bayly, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., on the
subject of

a

“ Diet as a Basic Cause of Disease °

After ﬁrst pointing out to what a state of
confusion the subject of diet had been reduced
within recent years largely as the result of faulty
and misleading conclusions drawn by modern re
search workers from experiments upon animals,
Dr. Bayly put forward the suggestion that the
primary fallacy lay in the unwarranted assumption
that man is a carnivorous animal, and enumerated
the various similarities in structure and function
between man and the higher anthropoid apes which
are frugiverous by nature.

Illustrating this point by comparison of various
types of skull and by a diagram which indicated
the ratio between the length of the intestinal canal
and the length of the body in the sheep, ox, pig,
rabbit, horse, dog, cat and man, he showed how
man was quite deﬁnitely distinguished from the
ﬂeshreating types of animal.

Obviously, the diet naturally devised by evolu»
tionary development to suit the particular species
must be the one most likely to maintain the health
'of the body and the integrity of its functions ';
disregard of physiological adjustments attained only

 




 

 

 

 

 

. '. . .mi'. .
78 ‘ Progress Today—The Humanitarian and AntVszsectton‘Remew

through ages of natural biological development
could not fail to result in dysfunction and disease,
in one form or another.

Yet this primary principle involved in the
problems of dietetics had been ignored by orthodox
scientists, attention being almost wholly ﬁxed upon
the chemical constituents, calorie value and, of late,
vitamin content of foods.

The result had been that many important factors
concerning the physical state of the food—raw or
cooked—and the biological state—the kingdom of
Nature from which the food’elements had been
derived—which play a vital part in determining
a healthy or diseased state of the body had been
neglected. '

An outstanding example of a medical writer
recognised as eminent in the scientiﬁc world who
had endorsed the View that most of our chronic
diseases were traceable to intestinal poisoning set
up by faulty habits of assimilation and elimination
was J. E. R. McDonagh, F.R.C.S., who had said
that “ if it were possible to rid humanity of chronic
intestinal intoxication, disease would become almost
extinct.”

The investigations of Dr. William F. Koch, of
Detroit, into the chemistry of the body had also
supported the theory of a primary toxic substance
in the body, the result of introducing into the
body wrong food, poisonous drugs, etc., which
became the basic cause for the appearance of many
disease symptoms. Moreover, his discovery of a
chemical substance which when injected into the
body destroyed this toxin had produced results
which afforded the strongest proof of the correct
ness of his contentions.

Dr. Bayly then discussed several: of the more
important disease conditions in the light of this
conception of the part played by diet.

First taking dental disease, he showed that
Professor J. Sim Wallace hadlong ago demon,
strated these principles in the successful prevention
of dental caries, until later research, based upon
cruel and useless animal experiments, diverted
attention to the vitamin theory, to the immeasurable
detriment, as Sim Wallace had stated, of the teeth
of children of the rising generation.

Then, with regard to appendicitis, recognised as
a disease of modern civilisation, Dr. Bayly quoted
evidence to prove that in races which lived largely
upon a diet consisting of raw fruits and vegetables
appendicitis was unknown. The work of
Dr. Ernest Tipper in Africa and that of Lieut.’
Colonel H. Hallilay in India both lent Support
to this claim.

The reduction in maternal mortality and in
diseases associated with pregnancy which the adop'

tion of ﬂesh’free diet made possible was next dealt
with and evidence adduced of the value of such
a regime not only to the welfare of the mother
but also to the unborn child and the health and
ﬁtness of future generations.

Turning} to Pernicious Anaemia, Dr. Bayly
described the interesting discovery by Dr. I. Macht
and W. Anderson, of a toxin in the blood of
patients Suffering from the disease, which could be
demonStrated and measured as to potency by its
effects upon the growth of seedlings ; further, this
toxin could be destroyed by certain wavelengths of
Ultra’violet radiation, thus producing an imprOve’
ment in the condition of the patient which had been
claimed to be of a lasting nature, unlike the
temporary improvement credited to the treatment
with liver extracts.

There was an increasing amount of evidence that
th1s disease originated in intestinal intoxication and

“gas, therefore, closely associated with the question
0 diet.

Then again, in Diabetes the dietetic basis for the

condition was unassailable, and dietetic treatment

still remained the cornerstone of satisfactory
treatment Mr. McDonagh had described diabetes

as ‘ an external manifestation of a chronic intestinal
1ntox1cation.”

Finally, as regards malignant disease Dr. Bayly
put forward evidence that as in the case of appendi’
citis races living on a natural diet were almost
entirely free from the devastating mortality produced
by cancer and other forms of malignancy in modern
civilisation. Among other authorities he quoted
the well’known dietetic exponent Dr. Hindhede,
Director of the State Nutrition Laboratory
Copenhagen, in support of his suggestions. While
there were 'undoubtedly other factors to be taken
into consideration in the production of malignant
growths there could be little reasonable doubt but
that the chronic intestinal poisoning, originating in
a diet unnatural and unsuited to the biological
development and requirements of man was one of
the chief factors both in stimulating a precancerous
condition of the tissues and cells of the body as a
whole and in determining (through the chronic
intestinal irritation produced) the main. sites at

which the condition of actual malignant growth
manifested itself.

Dr. Bayly hoped that in spite of the fact that
he had only been able in the time available to
touch the fringe of some of the principles involved
in the vast subject of diet, what he had said might
throw sufﬁcient light on the problem to indicate
the direction in which knowledge might be sought
which would prove of inestimable value to the
health and happiness of mankind.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Aprillju'ne, 193 7.

f. sizax'tza-iivg . .. .37.:- a- -. j

79

Homoeopathy and Animal Welfare

By THOMAS ROBERTSON, B.so., M.B., CH.B.

Orthodox medical treatment, as distinct from
surgical, consists almost exclusively in the treatment
(suppression) of symptoms by the administration
of drugs, many of which are active poisons.

On the other hand the methods of Homoeopathy
claim to be a positive system of healing based on a
carefully determined law and able to exert, or to
permit Nature to exert, an actual reparative
inﬂuence ; so that the medicine is curative and not
suppressive.

When we come to examine these claims of
Homoeopathy, however, we ﬁnd ourselves in a
difﬁculty. Some years ago a certain homoeopathic
physician was involved in a court case. The
orthodox side had cited two eminent medical men.
One was irascible, pompous and opinionative, and
subserved with all the resources of his nature the
interests of orthodoxy.

The other was a lean bitter controversialist,
eminent in his own domain but with an edged
tongue for everything homoeopathic.

These two pundits arrived in court to do battle.
The ﬁrst in the box made a black attack against
his opponents. In cross’examination, however, the
gentle questions were asked as to how long the
witness had practised Homoeopathy or what were
his qualiﬁcations to speak on it.

He had then to admit that he had never practised
it and had no knowledge of a practical nature
whatever! “What!" interposed the Judge, “ do
I understand that you come here to waste the time
of this court as an expert witness, and you confess
you know nothing about the matter ? Stand down.”-
The Homoeopath won his case.

This, then, is the usual method of passing an
opinion in the results of Homoeopathy, i.e., a mere
obiter dictum based on prejudice and unsupported
by a shred of practice.

The only persons qualiﬁed to judge are those
who have tried both the orthodox and the un’
orthodox methods and the invariable verdict is
greatly in favour of Homoeopathy. Indeed it is
on record that out of thousands of orthodox medical
men who have taken up Homoeopathy none has
ever abandoned it for his original position.

Some years ago while trying to reach some con’
clusions myself on these matters, I had occasmn to
discuss them with a well’known physician. On
mentioning the claims of Homoeopathy he at once

gave the opinion that its results were due to
suggestion or to the power of the perfervid faith
which enthuses its practitioners.

It seemed to me a ready reply that it is sufficient
for the physician to know that the forces he has
put into operation have cured the patient; and
moreover one may use a system without "under,
standing how it works, e.g., a child switching on
a wireless set.

Nevertheless it struck me that there might be
some substance in the charge so I determined to
try homoeopathic treatment on animals, who are
not impressed by one’s bedside manner, nor by
one's faith and enthusiasm, especially if, as is often
the case, one never sees the patient!

My ﬁrst patient was a Borzoi puppy with rickets.
This animal belonged to one of the best breeders
of this class and had been properly fed so far as
could be determined. It was an otherwise lovely
dog entirely ruined by marked deformity of the
legs. The joints were much thickened and the
limbs grotesque. One dose of Calc. Carb. in high
potency was given and in a few months the dog
became normal in every way and was ultimately
purchased from its owner.

Shortly after this the opportunity came to treat
distemper in kennels infected by this disease.
There were some eight young dogs, mostly Scotch
Terriers. Some had been ill a few days, three
markedly ill with black stools, diarrhoea, cough,
bleeding gums, ﬁlthy mouths and catarrh of nose
and eyes. Others were just beginning the infection.

The picture was an excellent one for Mercury,
under which all but one recovered in two to three
days. Since those initial efforts other such
veterinary work has yielded excellent results.

Some time ago I noticed a very ill black cat
lying on a rug in a friend’s house. This animal
had been stricken with an obscure nervous disorder
of an acute character. It was fevered, partly
comatose and paralysed in the hind legs and right
fore leg. The “ vet ” had paid two visits and had
not made a diagnosis nor improved the condition.

'On the basis of certain symptoms Natrum Mur.
was tried. Next day the animal took some food,
the bowel moved, and it showed an interest in its
surroundings. By the third day it was able to
walk, though imperfectly, to the next room. In two
weeks it had quite recovered and has remained

well ever since.

"4-... ~.-...-.:;;:.L,. .,..—_: ~~..~. ~...-.~.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘ 80 Progress Today—The Humanitarian and Anti’Vivisection Review

At various times I have tried to cure other
diseases in dogs, such as eczema, “ canker,” acute
and chronic diarrhoea, sepsis, hysteria and
“ epilepsy ;” and treated also other animals and in
most cases with gratifying results.

It should be noted that all these treatments were
given without any veterinary knowledge whatever,
but merely using the homoeopathic principles as
applied to human beings. It should be remembered
that successful homoeopathic treatment does not
depend on the name of the disease nor on the
diagnosis. It must not be assumed, however, that
the latter is of no importance.

When one turns to homonpathic literature one
ﬁnds abundant evidence of the success of its
methods when applied to animals. Hahnemann
used it himself with effect and so have many
hundreds since his day. Indeed it is a common
observation among physicians that animals (like
babies) make the best patients, probably because
their bodies have not been drugged.

Orthodox veterinary treatment, like its human
counterpart, is but a repetition of the old
symptomatic treatment with drugs, or the even
worse treatment by serum or vaccine, such as
distemper inoculation.

That homoeopathic treatment is superior to this
is the inevitable conclusion of all who have fairly
tried it.

There are of course the usual veterinary
surgeons who are prepared to animadvert against
it without the least experience of it.

In writing, as one does, for those who are united
in their desire to alleviate the sufferings of the
animals in man's care, let it be said that in
Homoeopathy there' is found a marvellous system
of healing which will amply justify a trial.

At the moment, of course, many owners of pets
employ homoeopathic medicines and often with
good results; but these results are not achieved
with the certainty they deserve because the art of
prescribing is far from easy.

It cannot be too clearly stated that homoeopathic
medicines are not prescribed for diseases. It is
not homoeopathy to consult a book on, say
distemper, or eczema, and then give a remedy
under the respective disease.

The remedy should be prescribed on the
symptoms shown and not on the disease named,

and this of course means a wide knowledge of the
materia medica.

Nevertheless it is not out of the reach of the
average amateur if the remedies are not too many.
It is safe to say that anyone who is prepared to-
learn the symptom picture of 40 remedies would
ﬁnd enough to give great therapeutic power able
to c0ver most diseases.

The obvious method for the best results is for
veterinary surgeons to take up the art and learn
it for themselves. Many of them are deﬁnitely
interested though few practise it ; but if all animal
lovers requested homoeopathic treatment and con!
sistently pressed for it, there is no doubt the
demand would be met.

Apart from its use for dogs and cats it would
also be invaluable for horses, cows, sheep and other
farm animals, whose many diseases are likewise
much helped by homonpathic methods.

No one, of course, claims that these methods
are the hundred per cent. “cure'all,” but it is
claimed (a) that they have deﬁnite curative power,
lessening pain and suffering, and shortening illness,
(b) that the death’rate will be considerably
lowered, (c) that animals so treated have a
diminished liability to future disease.

It may well be asked what “proof” is there
for these assertions ? The fact is that the so’called
scientiﬁc demands for “ proof ” have become
ridiculous.

There are cures of disease for which the
combined resources of the world's laboratories
cannot supply the proof. Not only Homoeopathy,
but Osteopathy, Christian Science, Spiritual and
“ miraculous ” healing have all operated to cure,

‘ but these results are not admitted by orthodox

Medicine because they are not readily veriﬁable
by current scientiﬁc methods.

Only practical tests will bring conviction of the
value of homoeopathic treatment of animals. I am
deeply convinced of its efﬁcacy for veterinary
purposes and am certain that the Animal Defence
Society would confer immeasurable beneﬁts on the
animal creation by promoting this treatment.

 

Read MEDICINE: THE ACTUAL AND
THE IDEAL. By H. FERGIE WOODS, M.D.,
L.R.C.S., L.R.C.P. Published by the Animal
Defence and Anti'Vivisection Society, 1’)",
St. Iames’s Place, London, S.W.1. Price 2d.

 

 

 

an:




(.5

A pril/Iune, 1 9 3 7 .

81

Protection of Fur/Bearing Animals
in Canada

By C. D.

We are glad to publish the following important
article by Dr. C. D. Niven, though we do not
agree with the conclusions. Fur farms, we concede,
provide a better way for those who refuse to
abandon fur as an article of adornment and clothing,
but the use of manufactured “fur fabrics” is a
practical and effective solution of the problem.
Wearing the skins of dead animals is objectionable
from many points of view—ethical, aesthetic and
hygienic—Editor, PROGRESS TO’DAY.

Anyone who has ever seen a dog in a snare or
in a trap will understand what the feelings of a
trapped animal are, but those of us who have not
had this opportunity can perhaps visualise the
experience of being lost on the bills or in the woods
without any chance ofvr-getting back to civilisation,
suffering from pain in a wrist or in a ﬁnger which
has been crushed. Such an experience would give
a slight idea of what it means to be the trapped—
not the trapper. Yet human beings look upon the
deliberate planning of such a catastrophe for
millions of animals every year as a legitimate
industry. In years gone by, the North American
continent supported great numbers of wild fur’
bearing mammals and the trapping of these attracted
a type of man who cared nothing about animal pain.
These men are now looked upon as hardy pioneers
who broke trail for the» settler. Canada is still in
the process of being settled, so that these hardy
pioneers are at the present day regarded as heroes
and the fur trade is lauded as the foundation stone

- upon which the Dominion was built.‘

“ Romantic ”—Six Days in a Trap

Those who laud the trapping industry of course
probably know little about it. It sounds so
romantic—the lean, hardy trapper stealing through
the dark evergreen spruces, balsams, and pines,
carried on his snow shoes over the pure, white, deep
snow, under the bright blue Canadian skies—-
following the tracks of some animal along a frOZen
creek bed among the black leaﬂess tagalders and
over the tamarack swamp—cooking a steak
of moose meat in his lonely shack covered with

 

 

* The Canadian Pavilion at the Paris International Exhibition:
1937, bears on its most prominent outside wall the word ‘ Fourrures
and has also a relief picture of fur trappers with skins.

NIVEN

cedar bark while savage wolves race in packs
through the woods after their timid quarry! But
no word is mentioned of the length of the trap
lines—that it may take a week to cover them—
that the animals may be in traps for six days—-
no mention is made of the action of the trap—-
how it grabs the paw, perhaps breaking the bone
—no mention of how the animals gnaw their paws
off to get free—how they break teeth biting the
trap—no mention of how this romantic, human
ﬁgure ﬁxes his traps to a bent/over sapling which
he arranges to spring up and dangle the animal by
the paw—no mention of how he bores a hole in a
tree, drives nails in all round, ﬁxes a little shelf for
a marten to sit upon while it pokes its head past
the points of the sharpened nails to secure a dainty.
morsel. N 0! Only the “romance” is allowed to reach
the ears of the luxuryrloving women of cities, so that
they may complaisantly stroke with bejewelled
ﬁngers the loot of this romantic character of the
backwoods. The coverings of the little bodies that
have writhed for days in anguish in the steel/trap
have had any blood stains cleaned off, and now
backed with embroidered and padded silk, have
been transformed into a sexual fetish for the human
race.

For the Human Race!

For the human race! With its clownish shades"

of lip stick and chalky face powder, with its
gleaming golden teeth, with its potent perfumes
scarcely concealing the unwholesome, with its weary
eyes and cherry red noses, with its silk covered,
swollen legs, and feet pinched into high’heeled shoes,
with its cantankerous double chins and comfortable
waist’lines—in short the unnatural, artiﬁcial
human race, so lacking in grace and charm: picture
it! and ere the image of that picture fades from
the retina of the mind’s eye, glance at the picture
of young otters playing on an otter slide “like
boys sliding downhill on the snow." Ernest

Thompson Seton describes the otter as an exquisitely,

beautiful creature and continues as follows :—

“ On watching a gambolling fox cub, a fawn, lan-

ocelot, a marten or even a well/furred pet skunk,
one is apt to be carried away and declare each in
turn the most beautiful and graceful creature ever
seen. But when all is gone from view, when

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

82 Progress To’day—‘The Humanitarian and Anti’Vivisection Review

nothing but the dim impression remains, it is the
otter that stands out pre/eminently as the most
beautiful and engaging of all elegant pets. There
seems no end to its fun, its energy, its drolleryaits
good’nature and its postures of new and surpr1smg
grace.

“ The handsome and durable fur causes this wild
animal to be much sought for by hunters ,and
trappers. Steel traps are commonly employed. ’

The price of an otter skin in 1936 was $16
(about £3).

Once the mind‘s eye has gazed on these two
pictures side by side, surely trapping must be
regarded as a crime comparable not merely to
manslaughter, but rather to the kidnapping of
infants. It revolts our poetic and artistic senses as
we pause to consider the ruthless destruction of the
“ exquisitely beautiful” at the command of an un’
charming and ungraceful human purchaser—presume
ably toxic in both character and physique.

The dastardly brutality of steel’trapping, in some
ways, gives it the ﬁrst place in the world’s cruelties
—not because it cannot be rivalled by vivisection
and the treatment, in certain countries, of domestic
animals, but because it is so obviously unnecessary.
Those who are not posted scientiﬁcally on the
menace to the human race which orthodox Medicine
constitutes at the present day, might argue that
vivisection is required, but no one could possibly
argue that wearing furs in the height of Summer in
a warm climate is a necessity. Such considerations
as these led to the formation of a group in Canada
in order to plead the cause of the fur/bearer in the
furrbearer’s own country.

But difﬁculties lay ahead: the group had to
approach a public who was not very well en'
lightened as to necessity of the protection of
domestic animals in such ’ a huge and thinly popur
lated country. .Then there were reasons why a
thoughtless public might even oppose reform;
trapping gave employment to a type of man who
might otherwise be unemployed and be a liability
on the community. Then there was the reticence
of the public in interfering with big business——
ten, million dollars worth or more per annum. Then
there was the cold climate in which furs are so
comfortable to wear. Then there was the command
of fashion which has such terriﬁc power over the
women who live on the Western side of the Atlantic.
Then there was the question of .“ vermin control”
-—a most serious matter in half’settled country:
timber wolves will not only take sheep but may
even attack children: weasels and skunks may take
chickens—gophers and certain squirrels, grain——
foxes, the eggs of game birds—coyotes, turkeys——
rabbits, the bark off young apple trees—ground hogs,

almost anything that grows in a garden—and bears
may rob the cache of . the woodsman.

An association for the protection of furrbearing
animals was thus confronted with a difﬁcult problem
when it attempted to formulate a policy in such
circumstances. To advocate the abolition of the
steel/trap when it is the recognised tool of the
fur/trade is obviously poor policy in a country which
fosters its fur’trade, because the retort to such a
policy would most certainly be “ How do you suggest
that we catch the fur’bearers ” and if a substitute
could not be produced, the matter would be dropped;
furthermore the association would be rated as a
society of idealists and cranks and would thereby
be disarmed for all time.

Problems of a “ Humane ” Trap

Again, the policy of advocating humane trapping
methods is an exceedingly difﬁcult one to adopt.
There are certainly no traps on the market in
Canada which can be considered humane and also
a substitute for the steel’trap. Such a policy there!
fore deﬁnitely implies the putting on the market of
a humane trap, as well as the selecting of one from
the many traps available in other countries. None
of the latter have, however, been proven as yet
to be quite a substitute for the steel/trap and in any
case one is inclined to ask “ what is a humane
trap.” Can any killer/trap be one hundred per
cent. certain in its action in a country where animals
of many different sizes are around? Can a take’
alive'unhurt trap be considered humane, if traps are
only visited once a week and when the temperature
may drop to 60 below zero? Under Canadian
conditions the writer can see only one possibility
with respect to humane traps, and that is the use
of a poison which would enter the system of the
animal either orally as in the case of the Gibbs
humane capsule or hypodermically, as soon as the
jaws of the trap close. But apart from the difﬁ’
culties of invention the difﬁculties of enforcing a
change would be. great. The trappers have their
equipment which is good for perhaps half a lifetime
of trapping and the trap/makers have their

machinery.

On the face of things it would almost appear
that a society advocating humaner treatment of the
furrbearer had difﬁculties too insurmountable to
contend with and that its existence could not be
Justiﬁed; and this stand is unfortunately held by
many animal lovers in Canada. But when due
consideration be given to trap’line practices, one
cannot but feel that these are so diabolical that only

i“ acute neCESSitY for “ vermin control” could
Justify them.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

April’Iune, 193 7.

The Buyers and 'Wearers are to
Blame

In many spheres at the present day mankind fails
to “ see the forest for looking at the trees ” and
seeing the forest in this instance consists in seeing
that we have no right whatsoever to, be wearing
"steel/trapped fur. It is not a necessity; at best, it
is merely a convenience to keep out cold, and it is,
in general, worn to assist the competitors in an old
parlour game called “ Look Pretty.” Viewing
things straightforwardly in this light, we cease to
regard the trapper and the furrier as dark citizens;
the buyers and wearers are to blame. The trapper
is poor: the furrier has to make his business pay,
but women do not have to have fur any more than
they have to conform to the many iniquitous con’
ventions forced upon them before universal suffrage
was granted. It was the appreciation of this fact
which made the Association put as its ﬁrst and forer
most item of policy, to advocate that steel/trapped
furs be discarded. The public may not respond but
'no reasonable and balanced mind can evade this:
the loot of the trapper can be thrown on the
rubbish heap, and as sane and decent human beings
we should have nothing whatever to do with it.
Let the trapper ﬁnd employment where he can, why
should we concern ourselves on this score any more
than about “ placing " boot’leggers or professiOnal
thieves? Steel/trapping is more of a crime than
an industry. .

Fur/F arming as a Substitute

Unfortunately we human beings are much fonder
of taking advantage of the liberties won for us by
others than of shouldering the burden of responsi’
bility which liberty invariably demands. And, so
far, women havd not protested en masse at the
trickery of the furvtrade in enticing them into ﬁnan’
cing the diabolical work of the trapper. Thus it
is necessary to ﬁnd some plan for making it easy
for women to put the necessary boycott on the in/
humanely trapped product. Fur/farming seems to
Supply the necessary means, and the Association
therefore makes an important item of policy the
endeavour to get humanely obtained real furs put
on the market. This, of course, implies the solid,
ting of assistance from the purchasing public in
putting a boycott on the steel’trapped product.

This policy is advantageous for another reason.
At the present day there is not the wild fur
production which there once was: trapping has
been too severe on wild life and there is a growing
demand even from the fur/trade to conserve the
fur resources. Capitalising on this situation the
Association has taken the stand that a Canadian

83

asset should be protected fOr Canada and it is
attempting to point out that the ruthless efﬁciency
of the steel/trap is hurting the very industry which
insists upon its necessity. With this strange
condition of affairs, the Association has been able
to formulate a constructive polity and cannot be
attacked by the materialist in the manner which a
purely humane organisation always has to endure.

The working out of this plan is a large business
proposition. The Association must cease to com
sider itself as a mere body of humanitarians but
rather as the executive in a scheme which, if it
works on an experimental scale, can be expanded
until those who earn a living by trapping at the
present time are absorbed in some branch of the
fur/raising industry. The organisation must
solicit the cooperation of furrfarmers and furriers
and also their customers. Experience to date
would indicate that the customers are going to be
the most difﬁcult to ﬁnd. Strange to say, many
furriers have been most sympathetic to this work
-——some of them doubtless know the‘ways of the
traprline and dislike having to make a proﬁt out
of them; others are purely conservationists and
hate the waste of wild life which accompanies
trapping ; they look with alarm, too, at the gradual
dwindling away of the parent stock. As regards
fur farmers—+many of these are animal lovers in
the ﬁrst place, and when it is pointed out that it
means business for them if the humane product is
put at a premium, little trouble is anticipated in
winning their cooperation. But the customer
often thinks nothing about animals, knows nothing
about trapping, cares nothing about animal suffer!
ing, believes nothing that is too horrible to believe
and shuts the ears when anyone speaks of cruel
deeds, with the hypocritical insinuation that only
“ nasty people ” talk about these things. The two
big difﬁculties to overcome in order to put this
policy across are, ﬁrstly, the initial ﬁnancing of it,
and secondly, the educating of the buyers in order
to create the demand and thus quickly lighten the
initial ﬁnancial burden. Such a scheme must prove
selfrsupporting or else it is a total failure if it does
not prove to be self’supporting, then those who are
already in the fur trade cannot be expected to take
it up and humanely obtained furs will not be set
at a premium.

Humanitarian Opposition to
Fur/Farms

It was gratifying to ﬁnd out that a policy some’
what similar to this had been thought out indepen’
dently and successfully exploited in the building of
the model abattoir at Letchworth by the Animal
Defence Society; it was interesting, too, to know

 




 

 

 

 

 

84 Progress Today—The Humanitarian and Anti'Vivisection Review

that opposition to the construction of the abattoir
had come from humanitarians. One difﬁculty in
working out the policy sketched above arises from
the fact that humanitarians in many instances with!
hold their support on the ground that on furrfarms
there are inhumane practices, This is doubtless true
in many instances; but the objection is raised even
in the case of well’managed fur'farms because.

‘ animals like foxes are conﬁned in small pens. In

our artiﬁcial age most human beings are much too
conﬁned in cities, but how few of those who have
been so all their lives would change places. with
the farm labourer or the lumberjack? Certainly
they would never compare the discomfort of their
conﬁnement with the agony of cruciﬁxion. Such
considerations make one feel that the uncompromis
ing attitude of humanitarians towards furrfarms is
regrettable as it, so to speak, “leaves the ﬂank
exposed.”

When furranimals are ranched on the open range
it cannot be argued that the animals are conﬁned ;
but then the problem of capturing the animals
once more arises. On the Louisiana muskrat ranches
steelrtraps are used—largely of the two’trigger type
——and such fur ranching can scarcely be considered
more humane than ordinary trapping; but on the
other hand, on the Pribilof Islands where blue
foxes are raised in the semi’wild state, fed largely
on seal meat, a method has been adopted which
consists in feeding the animals in boxes regularly.
At the time when it is intended to take the season’s
“ crop ” a gate’trap is arranged so that the animals
can gd in but cannot get out. In this manner
the best foxes can be selected for breeding stock.
Now, if such a system could be developed in the
case of muskrat and beaver, then an industry
could be started ' which would be simultaneously
proﬁtable and humane. This industry would give
employment to the intelligent trapper and would
probably be far more suitable than ordinary farming
for the Indian. The ranching of carnivores in the
semi’wild state would best be conducted on land
situated near an abattoir or ﬁshing station.

In Canada there is much land in which there are
no agricultural settlements and in such regions a
fur'bearer can ‘only be classed as vermin, if it
destroys game, and it is in those regions that the
Association would like to see the steel’trap out,
lawed ﬁrst; for while we can sympathise with the
meat hunter, we do hate that bizarre human
predator the headhunter—the so/called “ sports'
man ” the fellow who tickles his masculine vanity

by dressing up in the garb of the he’man of the

 

backwoods—who gives vent to his childish nature,

by shouldering his “ pop ” gun—and who gratiﬁes
his bullying instinct by observing his quarry drop ;
he selects, if possible, the best of the herd, while

the true predator of Nature must be content with.
the weakest. Why should animals be trapped to»
give such sportsmen good “ bags ”?

The Timber Wolf

Of course, in half’settled country the situation is
different. Where agricultural land borders the
forest then it is war on certain species of fur/bearers.
The most notable of these is the timber wolf:
perhaps no other animal except the house rat is
referred to with so much odium as the wolf. The:
human race have reason for this attitude on account
of the ravages which wolves can make on their
herds; yet the wolf is a wild dog; he can be crossed
with the domestic animal to produce a splendid
sleigh dog and as such has rendered valuable service
to man. He has a hard lot earning a living, perhaps.
carrying through the Canadian winter on only 12,
good meals; in company with his comrades he
shows magniﬁcent courage in attacking the moose ;
his intelligence is so high and his scent so keen that
only by the most deceptive methods can he be-
trapped. An enemy so hardy, so courageous, so
intelligent and when truce is called, so faithful a
friend, deserves our respect, not our odium. No:
tales about trapping are so harrowing as those
relating to the more intelligent animals and if we
must make war upon them in order to carry on!
agricultural operations let our warfare be as-
humane as possible. Thus the Association makes it
an item of policy to endeavour to ﬁnd methods
whereby animals which are termed “pests” in certain
localities can be exterminated as humanely as
possible. The working out of this is beyond the
scope of the Association at present as it requiresth
the help of an experienced mammalogist.

There is so much work to be done on the pro’
tection of the wild fur’bearing animals which are
not only not pests but which actually constitute
a national asset that the vermin control problem
is being somewhat avoided at present. As methods
are developed in other countries—particularly in
the United States—these can be applied in Canada.
The efforts of the Association are being directed at
present ﬁrstly, towards educating the wearers and’
buyers not to wear steelztrapped furs but to demand
the farmed product, and secondly, towards
arranging a system whereby a supply of humanely
obtained furs may be made easily available for the
careful buyer. The purchasers of furs can help by"
asking when they buy furs if they are steel’trapped
or humanely obtained. The mere question tends.
to refute the accusation so unfairly lodged by the
fur’trade against their customers, “ that not one

woman in a thousand cares how the furs are
obtained."

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

April/fume, 1937.

85

Hen Batteries
The Hen’s Sing/Sing

By E. G.

Commercialisation

Commercialisation of animals and birds has
resulted in highly specialised industries in which
the exploitation of living creatures has been
brought to a ﬁne art. They are bred and reared
with the object of securing the maximum amount
of proﬁt with the minimum amount of outlay and
labour. Mass/production methods are here, and
with them all natural ways of living have di3r
appeared. Scientiﬁc investigation and balanced
rations have decided the exact amount of attention
an animal needs to keep it in a state of proﬁtable
production.

The latest of these abominations is the hen
battery.

Facts

I doubt if humanitarians realise the immensity
of the poultry industry. Statistics show that the
head of poultry in this country has increased
within the past eight years to 30,000,000, Or by
80 per cent. Weekly Dairy Produce Notes
(22/1 /37) states that: “The production of eggs
in the United Kingdom in the calendar year 1936
was estimated at 4,524,000,000.”

What are the Batteries like i?

There are various models on the market.* They
are built singly and in units. Some cages are made
entirely of wood, some entirely of metal, others
of metal and wood. Here are two types. In one
the framework of the cage is. made of wood and
wire, the front is a hinged wire grid. In another
the cage is made of wood and boxed in on three
sides, the front is a slatted wooden frame. There
are many variations on these, but all cages have
a wire netting ﬂoor, to allow the birds” droppings
to pass through; this makes cleaning the cages
easier. The unit is a more common form. A block
0f eight cages, back to back, four cages in a row,
are arranged in three tiers to take 24 birds. Each
block measures 5' feet long, 4 feet 4 inches wide
(including overhang of ﬂoor and feeding troughs).
In this Space eight hens are caged. Cages are made

I'_OI1<2 model can be seen at the exhibition of the Animal Defence
SOCletY. 15', St. James's Place, London, S.W.l.

 

BARLOW

18 inches by 14 inches, 18 inches by 15 inches,
18 inches by 16 inches—~18 inches wide by
'14 inches long and 18 inches high being the usual
size of cage for an adult bird. Water is kept at
a low level in a continuous trough. These troughs
are so arranged that the hen often has to strain
to get at them; this is to avoid splashing, and
fouling the mash, which is placed in another
trough. Often these troughs will hold a week’s
supply of food. The droppings board takes the
form of a continuous roller belt, which is wound
round and scraped at intervals; or the board is
some seven inches below the wire/netting ﬂoor, so
that droppings can accumulate some three weeks
Without being cleaned. The wire/netting ﬂoor
lepes to allow the egg to roll away for collecting.
The battery system is as mechanical as it is possible
to make it. ‘ -

Where the Batteries are housed

Batteries have the advantage of ﬁtting in
anywhere. Under ordinary circumstances hens
require plenty of land, but under the battery
system this can be dispensed with. The backyard
poultryman can install a few cages. If he is so
minded he can knock them together out of iron
bedstead frames and wire netting (see the “ hints ”
published by various poultry journals); the com!
mercial poultryman can keep hundreds. Some men
keep batteries in the open, others use old barns and
sheds. Empty shops, and even old derelict cotton
and wool mills in crowded industrial towns are
used to house hen batteries,

The limits to which this craZe for utilising empty
mill space will go, is shown by a poultryman in
Yorkshire who uses the two empty top storeys of a
mill for batteries, whilst cloth is produced on the
.ground ﬂoor! Units of the cages are set in rows
6 feet or more apart (for working space), and in
each alley hang powerful electric bulbs, suspended
on ﬂexible wires to help with closer inspection of

the cages.

All over Great Britain this is happening. Here
are some actual instances of the cruelties involved by
the proﬁtable battery mania :—

A converted shop houses 1,100 birds; a shed with
a ﬂoor space 20 feet x 100 feet houses 1,000 birds;

 




 

 

 

 

 

86 Progress To’day—The Humanitarian and Anti/Vivisection Review

a disused cotton mill 75 feet x 45 feet houses, 1,100
birds (the owner hopes to double the number next
year); a stone barn 20 feet x 100 feet houses 936
birds; a shed 15 feet x 80 feet houses 650 birds;
a shed 27 feet x 82 feet houses 1,080 birds; sheds
covering half an acre of ground house 3,000 birds.

“ Advantages ” of Batteries

The advocates of batteries claim that birds yield
more eggs than under more natural methods, and
this they instance as a sign of the birds being
healthy and happy. I have not the slightest doubt
that large numbers of birds do lay more eggs, and
of a richer egg colour. But this must be put down
rather to the careful, balanced and stimulating
foodstuffs that the birds get. Firms specialise in
making “ Battery mashes,” “ Battery pellets ” and
other such foodstuffs.

Against this is the fact that the average mortality
.in batteries is estimated at 15 per cent. The Farmers
Weekly (26/2/37) admits that birds do die in
cages. Culling, rejecting of unsatisfactory layers,
amounts to another 15 per cent.

It is claimed that batteries have other points in
their favour. 1. The labour costs are a fraction

of those of any other system. 2. More space is

utilised and more birds can be kept. 3. There is
not the same waste of food. 4. There is absolute
control over the birds. These arguments are con,
cerned solely with proﬁt making, and they can be
dismissed by the humanitarian.

Every hen is expected to lay a certain number of
eggs, failing that the bird is culled. An average
is to expect 180 eggs the ﬁrst year, and/or 140
. in the second year. Seldom is the bird allowed to
live longer. The battery cage then serves to fatten
the hen up for killing. A record is very carefully
kept of the number of eggs laid by each bird.

Are the Birds Healthier?

It is claimed that battery hens are healthy hens
and free from any complaint. But insects, particu’
larly red mite, infest both indoor and outdoor

batteries and are difficult to get rid of. ' I grant.

that normal diseases of the land of parasitical origin
do not occur in the battery, but weak stock is
certain to be affected by respiratory troubles. Fowl
pox thrives in the battery.

Getting used to the Battery

It is not to be assumed, despite the glib statements
of poultrymen, that the birds calmly accept being
placed in batteries.

At ﬁrst, pure bred birds were used, but they
began to succumb as they were not able to stand
up to the strain of the battery; some birds were
ﬂighty and nervous, others began feather’pecking
and egg’eating, others had huge blisters on their
chests through pressure against the front of the
cage. In an effort to remedy all this crosses of
different breeds, R.I.R. x Wyandottes, R.I.R.. x
Leghorns, etc., are used. They have not yet
succeeded in crossing the hen with the battery!

Year/old birds in lay when put into cages went
out of lay and began to moult, taking over two
months to recover. It takes a bird six weeks or
more before it becomes reconciled to battery life
and begins to settle down. Some birds prove
“ sulky ” and have to be culled. And for the ﬁrst
few days droppings from the birds are an
unhealthy colour—proof of a deﬁnite upset.

Is the Hen Happy?

Whilst it would be foolish to assume that hens
have a similar mental make'up to humans, it must
be granted that a hen has some sort of brain.
It is not a machine. It has been turned through
centuries of man’s treatment into an egg/laying
creature. Even so it still has many natural
instincts. Comparing the farmyard fowl, with all
her many interests, scratching here and pecking
there, her sociable life with other farm animals, and
her own kind, clucking to her chicks, etc., with
the battery hen, it illustrates the terrible calamity
of the battery hen’s life—boredom.

To be shut up, perched on a few inches of ﬂoor
space, and that made of wire netting; closed in
by metal bars! (“ One might suppose that they
have hardly room to turn round ”—-Feathered
World (5/3/37). Mr. C. A. Sydenham Hannaford,
a Dorset battery cage maker, is honest enough, in
advertising his cages, to say: “ These cages embody

. . comfort for the birds as far as the (battery)
system will allow”). The Farmers Weekly
(26/2/37) stated: “It is essential in running a
battery to pay frequent visits to the birds. The
small diversion so caused is beneﬁcial, the hens
being stimulated to take a greater interest in life
when someone is amongst them ”!

A broody hen in a cage is usually left to get
over it as best she may.

Being unable to peek on hard land, birds have
a tendency to develop overgrown beaks; this is
remedied by paring the beak with a knife. Lack
of exercise causes overgrown toes and nails. On

being lifted out of a cage a bird ﬂops about unable
to use its legs.

After the 2 years’ egg’laying jail sentence the
hen IS fattened up for eating, and capital punish!
ment follows, the last bit of proﬁt she yields.

 

 




 

 

April/June, 1937.
Not “She ” but “It "’

A recent editorial in Feathered World states:
“ We could not expect that the laying battery
system would escape the criticism of sentimental’
minded persons for long . . . . They make the
elementary mistake of . . . . calling a hen ‘she ’
instead of ‘it,’ and their judgments based on such
a mistake are obviously unreliable ”!

That is addled reasoning.

A stone placed in a battery would be an “ it.”
But a stone would not lay eggs, “ it ” could not be
fattened for killing, “ it ” would not produce a
farthing proﬁt. No poultryman would be so crazy

87

as to place an “ it ” in a, [battery and expect results.
Anatomically a hen is a female, a hen is a “ she,”
and only a “ she ”p is capable of the miracle of
creating life, only a “ she ” can lay eggs. It is
only because a hen is a “ she ” that she is ruthlessly
exploited and tortured to yield proﬁt.

The opinion that a hen is “it ” and not “ she "
is held by many poultrymen. It is a blatant dis,
honesty and a refusal to face facts. It is a wicked
lie to justify cruelty for proﬁt’making. There can
only be one answer to this, that is for all readers
of PROGRESS TO/DAY to enquire as to the source of
the eggs they eat, and to refuse all battery eggs.
When the poultryman is hit in the pocket, where
he will feel it most, he will be amenable to reason!

Electric Poultry Farms

In an age in which ‘f Science ” is deiﬁed and
Nature devalued the natural processes of life are
rapidly coming to be regarded as antiquated. To
the task of replacing them-—as far as possible——
by mechanical devices, precise and time’saving, the
ingenuity of the human brain is bent. The
individual factor must, at all cost, be eliminated.
It introduces an annoying element of uncertainty
which is out of place in a mechanised world. It is
uneconomical and consequently unpractical. Away
with it and enter the robot!

According to a report in the Press we owe to a
Mr. MacManus in Baltimore a really remarkable
advance in the direction of suppressing Nature
whilst harnessing one of her uses to the wheel of
progressive commercialism. His poultry farm
would seem to be so nearly perfect a piece of
mechanism that it seems a pity that the poor old’
fashioned hen should still be indispensable for its
prOper working. True, as little as possible of her
as an individual creature is allowed. to remain, but,
for all that, she is still there, the outward semblance
of the homely birds which enlivened our Chlld’
hood’s barnyards and which we fed and knew by
name, each one with her peculiar characteristics, her

personal little habits, her vagaries and, hence, her
charm. The hens at Mr. MacManus’s poultry farm
are allowed none of these things. They are perfect
egg/producing machines. They spend their lives in
small battery wire cages, in which their food
appears automatically at regulated intervals, which
are automatically cleaned at given periods and
automatically lighted when necessary. We are
made to understand that Nature’s methods of re’
production are but a vulgar blunder which must
be supplanted by a superior scientiﬁc process. The
Baltimore hens are artiﬁcially fertilised in solitary
conﬁnement. They are expected to lay eggs with
clockwork regularity. The eggs are automatically
collected as soon as laid and equally automatically
graded. When chickens are required—as, un’
fortunately, they still are—they are hatched in
electric incubators. The mechanised hen must not
waste her time on maternal duties. The joy and
pride of rearing her little brood are not for her.
She has become a cog in a money’making machine.
From ‘her point of view it is certainly regrettable
that the human brain is so poor and faulty a piece
of mechanism that it cannot devise an entirely

artiﬁcial hen.—-—L. K. S.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

88 Progress Today—The Humanitarian and Anti’Vivisection Review

Life and Comment

“ Conquering Nature ”

Reports have appeared in the Press of experi
ments in the production of cattle fodder without
soil, which may “ revolutionise ” farming practice.
Civilised mankind appears to be forgetting that
Nature may be slow in exacting the penalty but
penalties must ultimately be paid. The scheme
which has been much publicised is “ cabinet
culture ” by which a ton of maize a day may be
produced in a large galvanized iron cabinet con’
taining rows of trays. No soil is used. The seed
is put in the trays and, with the help of a tank
full of water containing a chemical solution,
intensive crops are produced. Pictures have been
published showing the progress day by day of
growing maize crops. Every twenty/four hours a tap
is turned and occasional “rain ” drops on to the
trays. Finally—the crop being ready—the tray is
lifted out and the product fed to an animal.

We learn that the Minister of Agriculture is
watching these experiments “ with much interest.”
Here apparently there are great opportunities for
agricultural progress and economic liberation. For
.one acre of growing seed is, by this method, equal
to 1,760 acres of grass land, and sixpenny’worth of
seed will grow 2 cwts of green fodder. You can
produce a crop of fodder each day.

"Now, according to the Sunday Express, a farmer
"who feeds intensively cultivated maize instead of
hay and grass to his livestock can save 10/ , on
every pig, brought to bacon weight, £1 on every
.bullock and from 15' ‘70 to 20% on milk production.
We are informed that all animals will be “ in
better condition ” when this food is used and that
the animals eat every scrap of it until the tray
is clean.

To Mr. V. C. Dashwood, who has engaged in
this kind of research, the statement is attributed
that “ animals fed on these intensive crops—it may
not be maize, it can be any green fodder—do not
need to go into ﬁelds. They can be kept indoors
and in yards. Owing to the high digestibility of
this young grass they will not need so much cake
or meal.”

Happy animals! Healthy animals! Poor
creatures enslave in service to mechanically’
minded and blind humanity!

An ofﬁcial of the Ministry of Agriculture was
reported in the Sunday Express to have stated that
these experiments, if they can be put on a com’
mercial basis, “will bring about a revolution in
cattle’feeding methods.”

There will also—if such methods are adopted——
be a crop of new cattle diseases with dire conse’
quences to human beings who consume milk and
meat from animals treated in such a manner.

“Cattle may not need ﬁelds,” we read—men
certainly need common sense.

Suffering Caused by Bits

Pavilion Zoophilia, at the Paris Exhibition of 1937,
contains an interesting exhibition of bits and horse’
shoes—with warnings and recommendations.

The statement made in following letter which
appeared in the Birmingham Post of August 5th,
1936, should be widely known:—-——

CRUELTY TO HORSES.
To THE EDITOR OF THE BIRMINGHAM Posr.

Sir,—Your correspondents, “ I. C. L." and Mr. A. G. A.
Rabnett, fail utterly to convince me that the prehistoric
bit is in any relation whatsoever to Mother Seagull’s
Soothing Syrup.

Members of the British Show Jumping Association,
judges, supporters of these shows, and riders who specialise

in Jumping, are all—without doubt—lovers of horses, and

most humane, but at the same time they are “so blinded by
custom, tradition, prejudice, habit, use, conceit or
ignorance, that they cannot see Show Ring Jumping from
the horse’s (cruelty) point of view. Indeed, many of them
are rabid antirvivisectionists and would scorn the idea of
the horse’s mouth and tongue being wilfully lacerated and
injured so severely. Yet, in their blindness, they enjoy
and even applaud such an exhibition of brutality.

. Not only are the tissues injured, but the tongue also
is sometimes extensively lacerated through the medium of
the curb. Severe pressure on the tongue, long continued,
interferes with the circulation to such an extent that
it is completely cut off and the distal end of the tongue
is_ removed by the process of mortiﬁcation. It is very
distressmg to watch the futile efforts of a tongueless
horse trying to drink from a stream. Having been
deprived of the natural means of forming a vacuum, he
is compelled to use what remains of the tongue exactly
like the piston of an engine, with very indifferent results.

At the. end of a good day’s hunting bloodstained saliva
on the bit is by no means a rarity. Horses showing this

- are graduates for that appellation, “A hardrmouthed brute,

carries his tongue over the bit, pulls your arms out, and
no bit Will stop him.” When fully qualiﬁed, note the
difference in shape and size of the bars, caused by SUC'
cesswe layers of dense, insensitive, white ﬁbrous tissue,
to protect the underlying sensitive structures. Even with
the best of hands the bars show bruising and discoloration
for some time after return to the stable.

1 am not.a SpOll sport. My mission in this life is the
relief of pain and suffering in the domesticated animals;
and I appeal to all true sportsmen to play the game
With our oldest and best friend, the horse.

T. L. A. L.
Northﬁeld, August 1.

 

 




 

 

 

Aprilrjime, 1937.
The Bull’Fight in France

Le De’fenseur cles Animaux, of Paris (October
20th, 1936), published the following on the subject
of the illegality and immorality of the bull’ﬁghts :-

No one has forgotten the bull’ﬁghts at
Chateaurenard (Bouches’du’Rhone), where appeared
for the ﬁrst time two child toreadors.

The spectacle of children exposed to the danger
of wounds or death was very popular with the
bull/ﬁght “ fans ”; the risks run by these young
beginners added a spice to the satisfaction of the
onlookers, themselves safely ensconced behind the
arena barriers . . . The children carried on with
this dangerous game throughout the whole of the
summer season, in spite of constant appeals made
to Madame Lacore, Under’Secretary of State for
Child Protection.

This immoral and unhealthy spectacle is enough
to unbalance any potential inmates of asylums.

Madame Griolet, accompanied by Monsieur
Griolet, Founder and President of the Vaucluse
Association for the Protection of Animals, was man'
handled by the crowd coming out of the Chateau’
renard arenas—her protests do not please this
particular public. Madame Griolet however has
just had a victory over these “ brutes ”:

The correctional Tribunal of Tarascon, on
July 7th, 1936, passed a severe sentence on Monsieur
. , a barrel manufacturer, who had kicked
Madame Griolet violently in the stomach:

Six days‘ imprisonment (” prison avec sursis”).

Fine of 16 francs.

All the costs to be borne by him.

600 francs damages to be paid to Madame Griolet, who
is going to give this sum to the Association Vauclusienne
pour la Protection des Animaux.

This is a reassuring success, although dearly
bought by Madame Griolet . . .

The Marseilles Section of the Ligue des Droits de
l’Homme continues its noteworthy and courageous
campaign against bull’ﬁghts.

In the Ligueur of June, 1936, we read the
following most signiﬁcant words:

“At Montbrison, something entirely new has been seen:

he manager asking permission from the public to break
the law by killing the bull! . . .‘

“ And, for a full twenty minutes, an ignoble murderer
-——called ‘ Matador '—-with the approval of the circus crowd
and under the presidency of the Mayor—set about
butchering, with blows of his sword, a bull which was
slow in dying ! "

In the village of Allauch, near Marseilles, the
repulsive spectacle was given for Whitsun.

The President of the Marseilles Section of the
Ligue des Droits de l’Homme, Monsieur Agranier,
wrote a letter of protest to the Prefect of Bouches’
du'Rhéne.

 

89

The Toulouse centre of the Animal Protection
Society has also just had a great success:

The Society, under the active direction of its
President, Madame Douchez’Menebode, has suc’
ceeded in having the President of the Toulouse
Fétes Committee declared responsible under civil
law for breaches of the Grammont law and
procured:

A ﬁve hundred franc ﬁne for every day of a bullrﬁght.

There have been two: with the additional costs.
this is a serious attack on the proﬁts, an attack
which will probably prevent the F étes Committee
from continuing these entertainments in 1937.

At Dax (Landes), people are deploring the civil
war in Spain “ which is upsetting the fétes ” ; no
more toreadors !

An “armilleta” was requested-Mexican toreador
——for this they asked the Portuguese and they were
able, with much selfrcongratulation, to have bull”
ﬁghts at Dax on September lst.

Is it the increasing number of Spanish bull’ﬁghts
in France, is it the ﬂowering of sadism in more or
less unbalanced people, are there no amusements
more interesting than the sight of suffering and
death, that the bullrﬁght “ fans ” and others, French,
men, should have to go every day to the Spanish
frontier, just opposite Bidasoa, anxious not to miss
the spectacle of the appalling ﬁghts in the civil war,
so near to the French frontier ?

Armed with their ﬁeld’glasses, they used to watch
the bombs falling on the houses, buildings on ﬁre,
pilots bombarding ships or being killed themselves.
(Several of these enthusiastic spectators got in the
way of projectiles which were not intended for
them !)

Such is the result, of this plethora of bull'ﬁghts
to which children are taken and where people are
delighted to see child toreadors themselves ﬁght and,
slowly and with much awkwardness put the bulls.
to death.

Formerly the saying was “ la douce France.”
(Translated)

The Bull’Fight 111 Spain

The civil war has not damped the enthusiasm
for the bullrﬁght. The Daily Express of Feb. 22nd.
1937, published a picture of “Insurgent General
Queipo de Llano, Conqueror of Malaga, applauding
at a bull’ﬁght held in Seville after his victory.
Soldiers entered bull’ring; collected funds for
Franco’s cause.”

British “ Sport ”

Under the title, Let’s Go Out and Kill Something,
the Daily Express, of April 24th, 1937, published a
scathing attack on otter’hunting by H. E. Bates.
Those who love and defend the Spanish bullrﬁght,

whether it takes place in Spain or in France,

 

 




 

 

 

 

a‘an .41..‘-. .c.._.. .~ ., _.

,. gen» 4%... .._ ._ .-~

 

90 Progress Today—The Humanitarian and Anti/Vivisection Review

generally turn on British critics with the remark:
“ What about your own blood’sports ? Are they
any better ? “

“ Otters,” wrote H. E. Bates, “ are hunted and
killed in England at something like the rate of
450 a year.” -

“The season has just begun.

This is, of course, a small number when you think
that Lord X, with party, may dispose of 3,000 grouse
in a single day, or that Colonel Y, with his famous
double 200rweight pointvgun, may bring down a hundred
birds at one discharge. But it means this: that in my
short life of thirty years, reckoning at 400 a year, some
thing like 12,000 otters have been killed in England for
the purpose of fun.

How exquisite and long drawn out this fun has some’
times been I will show presently. For the moment, since
a writer must sometimes gives reasons for words he uses,
I will explain Why I use the word ‘fun' and not, let
us say, the words ‘public safety,‘ ‘ natural history,”
"protection of farmers,” or ‘sporting exercise.’

The otter is a harmless animal. He lives a life in which
the amount of his offence towards man can be put in a
matchrbox. It is true that he lives on ﬁsh, but so also
do herons and wild duck and pike and kingﬁshers and
swans and cats and men and women.

And since very few of us ever eat freshwater ﬁsh,
the only people who have a genuine grievance against
the otter are ﬁshermen. But ﬁshermen are, generally,
unvindictive men who go through life nursing, not a
grievance against otters, but a ﬁxed and boyish desire
to catch ﬁsh of fabulous size.

Otters are shy, elusive, unsavage creatures, the last
remaining water animals of any size in this country.

Since they are so unhostile and so inoffensive why then
are they hunted ? And the answer is, of course, for fun.

The question now arises, fun for whom? In fox'hunting
the fun is popularly supposed to be equally divided
between hunter and hunted.

Hunters assure us that the fox enjoys it all. Having
also great powers of mobility and cunning, he has chances
of escape.

The otter’s chances of escape are, clearly, much less:
since he is a water mammal, the mobility of his movements
is severely restricted. He is safe only in the deepest
water. '

But these restrictions do not matter. If he cannot be
hunted over a wide area, he can at least be hunted for
a long time. If to be hunted is fun, then that fun is
surely greater if long drawn out.

And so, in order to equalise this business of fun, to
make it pleasant for otters as well as man, otters are
hunted not only for a long time, for seven or eight or
ten or even eleven hours at a stretch, but in spring.

This is clearly a splendid time. Rivers are then lovely
with kingcup and ladysmock, meadows are starred and
belled with daisy and cowslip, and, above all, the female
otter is in cub. She may even have given birth to her cubs.

She is about to be afforded the pleasure, the privilege,
of being harried and hunted and ripped by forty human
beings, twenty or thirty hounds and some terriers.”

Mr. Bates is astonished that the law of the
country “ still allows this rotten and most bloody
exhibition of human behaviour.” He feels sure
that if he were to get up from his chair, arm him,
self with a stick, and beat the nearest dog to the
point of death, he would earn the contempt of all

decent men and the penalty of the law. Quite so.
But the generous’hearted writer of this article—-
for which many thanks—has not perhaps realised
that there is no logic in human ethics and a vast
amount of stupidity in human brains. And let us
remind him: the otter is a wild animal—hot in
captivity—and wild animals are not supposed to
have any “feelings ” worth bothering about.

Destruction

Birds and other animals now receive the beneﬁt
of modern methods of destruction. The Devon Agriz
cultural Committee some time ago sought means for
“organised” war on starlings. The use of gas
bombs was advocated as a good method, and the
Mayor of Torrington was reported in the Press
to have said, “ There is no reason why gas bombs
should not be dropped on their roosts.” With
wars—fought with bombs dropping from the sky—-
wars actual and potential (of which detailed
descriptions appear in the Press) since the days when
many believed that the last great European war
was conducted to put an end to war there
is little wonder that the bright idea of bombing
birds should also appear in print.

The destruction of grey squirrels has for some
years been a great topic for letters to the press.
The grey squirrel is apparently—judging by the
eloquence and passion exhibited by his enemies——
an incarnation of evil. That is to say, the grey
squirrel in Britain. Elsewhere he is not only
tolerated, but liked. In England he has even lost
his patronymic; he is not called a squirrel, but a
tree’rat (to make our ﬂesh creep).

The red squirrel is upheld by the bold and
vociferous enemies of the grey squirrel as a harm’
less beast; British he is, not American, and
sometimes, with an eye to the fulminations of
troublesome nature/and’animal lovers, those who
incite the public to war on the grey squirrel, tBll
us that they do so to protect that charming, win’

some, delightful little creature, the red squirrel.

Alas, for the substance of their assurances. Before
us lies an account of a meeting of the Highland
Squirrel Club, held in Dingwall. The secretary's
report showed that 2,65 8 squirrels were killed in
1.924; the number of squirrels killed in each year
Since the formation of the squirrel/killing club was:

1903. 4640; 1904, 3988; 1905, 3431; 1906, 4007;
1907, 6628; 1908, 3197; 1909, 7199; 1910, 4235;
1911, 3056; 1912, 3679; 1913, 3283; .1914, 3816;
1917, 2601; 1916, 2692; 1917, 3998; 1918, 2794;
1919, 1530; 1920, 1893; 1921, 1859; 1922, 3201;
1923, 1884; 1924, 2658.

.The grand total in 22 years was 76,269 squirrels
killed. There is no mention of the colour of the
animals kllled, and they were in all probability red.

 

 

 




 

April/fune, 1937.
The True Naturalist

It is refreshing to read—in this modern wilder!
ness of war on Nature and Man-——-the review by
Basil de Selincourt of two books which appeared
in the Observer of May 2nd, 1937. The books are
Green Laurels: The Lives and Achievements of the
Great Naturalists, by Donald Culross Peattie, and
Wilderness Wanderers, by Wendell and Lucie

Chapman.
Mr. de Selincourt writes:—

“When one considers, not without grief and
shame, the wanton destruction and needless suffering
we men have inflicted upon the animal creation,
there is comfort of a kind in remembering how
recently our conquest was made, what upstarts we
are! If one began to write the history of the
nightingale, Ruth in her alien corn, seemingly so
far away from us, would be an affair of yesterday ;
for birds ﬂew, nested, and sang millions of years
before men or corn or marauding boys were heard
or thought of; and perhaps already hideous
humanity, its destructive tools perfected, has passed
the climax of the destructive period. Perhaps a
paltry twenty thousand years or so may come to
represent, in animal memory, the era in which this
devastating scourge was let loose; and in after
time, as in earlier, the air will be flown and the
earth trod and the water swum by happy creatures,
devouring one another always, of course, but with’
out any malice of premeditation or other intellectual
excess.

I suggest that a day may dawn—in a few
thousand years or so—when the rights of animals,
in their due proportion, will be generally respected.
No doubt a disinterested love of animals is a very
difﬁcult achievement. In the ﬁrst place to rid
oneself completely of the idea that animals exist to
provide meals or clothes for men and women, and

91

are to be classed mainly as helpful or harmful, is a
much subtler aﬂair than most of us imagine; the
religious associations probably go very deep. Then,
to see and delight in an animal for its own sake
really involves a developed selﬂessness, something,
I mean, a good deal more delicate than the mere
selﬂessness of a man among men. Still, I am
sure, the sense of charity for all animals, the sense
that a true charity includes them all, has been
growing steadily in recent years, and is destined
to go on growing.”

After an interesting reference to the revulsion felt
by some people when in contact with certain forms
of animal life—in the case of Mr. de Selincourt
an encounter with a cuttlerﬁsh—he writes :—

“ A new awareness of the meaning of animal life
is certainly growing up, new in this civilised West,
I mean; for there is a good deal of evidence to
suggest that the Red Indians had fraternal feelings
for the beasts they hunted and devoured, and, with
these, an obscure religious sense of the unity of
creation—which other primitive races have probably
shared. In our case, it needed evolutionary theory
and the slowly maturing conviction that men were
no more than monkeys in disguise to bring our
cultivated minds to face their true relation to the
primal order of the world; and for how many

of us, after all, the order we live in is still a .

superstitious order ! ”

We have quoted these signiﬁcant passages from
an excellent review of two very interesting books
with the object of pointing out that there are still
writers and reviewers of note who are not caught
up in the powerful modern “ thought’form ” which
regards man as the super’machine of a more or less
meaningless planetary assembly and the animals
as cogs and wheels—to be used, exploited and
destroyed at will—existing solely for the beneﬁt
of human organisation.

A School that Loves Animals

By ELIZABETH YATES

In London there is a small school which brings
to mind a famous school held for a period in
Boston by Bronson Alcott. A century and the
Atlantic roll between them, but Marguerite Puttick
has the same way with children that Bronson
Alcott had; she has the same manner of treating
them as persons; she is equipping them for active
service in the world ahead as he did: 19th Century
educator and 20th on the same ground in feeling
that true service to the world lies in intelligent
Individual thinking.

Miss Puttick had been teaching for several years
but it was only recently that she founded her own
school. In Bedford Gardens, off Kensington’s busy
little Church Street, a neat printed plate ﬁxed to
the iron railings—MISS PUTTICK’S CHILDREN’S
CLASSES—tells of its presence. Nine children
opened her ﬁrst class, and now, four years later,
between 40 and 50 young Londoners between the
ages of 37} and 11 come to her daily to take their
ﬁrst steps into the interesting world ahead. Froebel’
trained as Miss Puttick is, she and her teachers base
their teaching of the children on Froebel lines.

- . Has-4...... ‘”‘

L 4...;-.... JEN," ‘

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

92 Progress Today—The Humanitarian and AntieVivisection Review

Each room, no matter how tiny its desks and
chairs, has for its motto To see and admire, not
harm or destroy, and the children daily ﬁnd their
ability increasing to see more clearly and admlre
more intelligently while the impulse to harm or
destroy disappears before conscious respect and
self'control. Carrying the motto on through home
and widening experience, they soon ﬁnd its true
meaning in abundant enjoyment of the world
around them. George MacDonald’s words encom’
pass these children: '

H

...... Kneel down and pray
To the God of sparrows and rabbits and men,
Who never lets anyone out of his ken.”

The children bring to Miss Puttick their own
stories of Golden Deeds to Animals, kindnesses
shown to all creatures either by themselves or
others that they have read or heard of.

Geoffrey, age 8, saw a rabbit in a dog’s mouth,
so, with the help of the chauffeur and his small
brother, he took the rabbit out of the dog’s mouth,
stroked it and let it g0 ! John, age 6, said that
he picked up worms while the gardener was dig!
ging—they should not be hurt by the spade!
Christopher, age 7, climbed a tree to get a cat
down—the birds could go on singing!

A play, The Golden Key, in which rabbits, a
hedgehog, beavers, guinea/pigs, a squirrel, bluebirds,
and other such characters were impersonated by the
children was performed on two occasions. In this
play the animals, as well as the Little Girl, had to
learn the password of the woods, “ To see and
admire, not harm or destroy.” When they learned
this they had no fear and could go with safety

anywhere. One little girl, age 7, after the play
wrote a poem:

” Never harm a, gentle thing,
Worms that crawl, birds that sing,
Tabby cats or graceful deer,
Long’eared rabbits, swift feet hares.
Always love and always give
Pretty gifts for these who live."

Nature study is a favourite and most important
subject carried on largely through specimens the
children gather themselves, placing in handmade

books, inscribing information alongside, in neat,
patient hands. The live rabbit munching lettuce
is modelled again and again by the children. It.
is having real pets in the school that early
gives the children an understanding of the care
that animals require.

Modern aids of education are invoked. Miss.
Puttick is one of the pioneers of Visual Education
by cinema. The children are shown weekly ﬁlms.
dealing with countries, industries, animals. Films
have been lent by the N.S.P.C.A. and one and all
have been enlightened through the instruction given
of how to drive a horse or care for rabbits, etc.

Geography is made more real from visits made by
representatives of most of the European countries
who talk to the children about the way children
in their respective lands live. Russia, France,
Switzerland, Czecho’Slovakia, Germany, Norway,
Sweden, Denmark have all been represented.
Frequently, excursions are made by motor coach to
places of interest. And use of hands with crafts
form as much a part of the curriculum as study
gained from books.

Though the tempo of living increases daily and
competition continues to permeate all forms of life,
here is a place where children grow as naturally and
simply as ﬂowers in a garden, their pink and green
overalls making perpetual springtide in white/walled
rooms with apple green paint and apple blossom
pink curtains.

On visiting the school one feels that here, among
children encouraged to develop what is natural in
them, some of the leaders of the next generation
are already being trained. Making their own books,
setting their own scenes, these children are privileged
to feel a happy cooperation in the business of
learning. Far from being imposed on them, they
are allowed to discover, each one for himself, that
mind within themselves which makes David different

from William, Jennifer Jane from Elizabeth, and,
once discovered, develop it.

It is the Miss Putticks of the world who face
the levelling thrust of machine’made mediocrity
With their challenge to youth to think for itself,

knowing that youth can never be too young to do
its own thinking.

Youth Group of the Animal Defence Society

This group of young Animal Defenders, a London
section of which has met regularly on Saturday
mornings at Animal Defence House to write and
illustrate their own journal (not as yet issued to
the public) will in the near future be provided
with a Club Room of their own. This new venture

is due to the generosity of the President. Enter»
taining and instructive gatherings will be arranged
to which young people who are not members will

be invited. The attractive badge of the Youth
Group is in great demand.

 




 

April/Inna, 1937.

93

BE IT KNOWN. . ..

THE ANIMAL DEFENCE AND ANTI’VIVISECTION SOCIETY,
1’)", St. James’s Place, St. James’s Street, London, S.W.1.

Pavilion Zoophilia

In the long history of the Animal Defence
Society and of the International Humanitarian
Bureau there are few events which can compare in
importance and inﬂuence with that of building, in
collaboration with the Association Francaise pour
la Defense des Animaux, a Pavilion in the Paris
Exhibition of 1937. Situated in the centre of the
Exhibition in the Champ de Mars, a conspicuous
part of the great central avenue of buildings, which
stretches from the Trocadero to the Ecole Militaire,
it cannot but attract attention at an Exhibition
Which is unique in scope, beauty and international
comprehensiveness. It has been estimated that twenty
million people will visit the Paris Exhibition. That
ﬁgure may well be surpassed.
difficulties, strikes and the prophecies of pessimists,
the gigantic conception of the Exhibition took
material shape. As the weeks of March, April
and May passed, there was always the addition,
completion and extension which sustained the
optimists and confounded the pessimists. Forty’
three nations were at work planning and preparing
a display of their most characteristic arts, industries,
trades, attractions of scenery and peoples. France,
in particular, being the host 'of this vast Assembly
of the Nations, made effective arrangements to
show something of all that has been created by, the
:nation, her provinces with buildings and customs
of all France, her countryside, agriculture, her.
colonies, art, science, architecture, wine and fashions.
The German, Russian and Italian pavilions excel
in national expressiveness, Rumania and Hungary
in concise presentation of national life, history and
production. Each nation has made its pavilion a
mirror reﬂecting the features which those respon’
sible for the arrangements consider of. greatest
importance. But as the Eiffel Tower strides across
the centre of the Exhibition, so does the esprit of
France make itself felt in all the highways and by’
Ways of the Exhibition, in the beauty and the
€16gance which have been successfully wooed, in
the ﬂowers, the lavish expenditure on the decora’
tions, the ultra’modem uses of electricity and light,
the luminosity, which has been the central idea. N0
visitors to the Exhibition can forget that they are
in Paris. The Seine converted into a sparkling
'water’way, with “luminous fountains ” and
fringed by buildings, extravagant and arresting, IS
at night a fantasy of incredible colours.

In spite of delays,

Who can deny the great value to peace of such
an Exhibition? ‘1' out comprendre c’est tout
pardonner—the rule is not infallible—the oppor’
tunity given through the Exhibition to the peoples
of the World to know, appreciate and understand
each other is priceless. There is the Peace Tower
at the “ top ” of the Exhibition, near the broad
terrace of the new Trocadero, there is a pavilion
devoted to sheer peace propaganda of a militant
type. There is an exhibition relating to the
objects and achievements of the League of Nations.
But the indirect peace propaganda created by the
conception of the Exhibition, by the many national
pavilions, is far more effective.

Pavilion Zoophilia, of which you see a picture
in this issue, had to be there. For the protection
of animals from cruelty, ill’treatment and neglect
is a corner stone of civilisation. So much cruelty
is due to ignorance and lack of understanding.
The possibility of building the Pavilion in the
centre of the great Exhibition was an idea too‘
good to be rejected. No difﬁculties of organisation
and expense could be allowed to stand in the
way. Now that the Pavilion is ready, there can
be no doubt as to its immense utility to the cause
of justice to animals. Before the doors opened to
visitors there was a steady stream of people knock!
ing at the door.

The planning and installation of the Humane
Exhibition in Pavilion Zoophilia took some time,
for the best and most suitable objects had to be
selected from the permanent exhibitions in London
and Geneva, and moved to Paris. The Animal
Defence Society’s caravan was used to carry part
of the London exhibition to Paris. It was then
sent to Geneva, where a selection was made from
the exhibition there, which was transported to
Paris. There were considerable formalities with
the customs of France and Switzerland and arrange!
ments had to be made for the orderly return with
the consent of the authorities of all the things
moved. To be worthy of these events the Society’s
caravan was repainted in the spring and duly in’
scribed in French. The words “ Pavillon Zoophilia ”
are conspicuous.

The ﬁtting up of the various sections in the
Pavilion also required much thought and con!
sideration, owing to the comparatively limited space
and the necessity of showing something of the most
important aspects of the protection of animals.

 




 

1

I‘km

‘
N]

 

 

.2....;.;:....... -

‘3"

 

 

 

PAVILION ZOOPHILIA AT

THE PARIS EXHIBITION.

 

 

 




.5 .av LHAVJ\ HVVL 1111.11.11 111

1111:, rruuo LAHIDL‘IIUN.

 

AprilJune, 1937.

The Animal Defence Society and the International
Humanitarian Bureau occupy three’quarters of the
Pavilion, the remainder being occupied by the
Association Francaise pour la Defense des Ani"
maux, of which Madame Marguerite Mesureur is
the devoted and energetic founder and Sécretaire
Génémle. The technique of organising humane
exhibitions has been studied during many years
of experimentation and experience by those
responsible for the exhibitions of the Animal
Defence Society, but it was surmised, and rightly
surmised, that the Paris Exhibition would present
entirely new conditions. It would be a question
of receiving crowds, not a few individuals, and of
keeping the Pavilion open always, on weekdays
and Sundays. It would also be a question of
correct lighting of the exhibits, for the Pavilion
would have to be lit till late in the evening. This
meant choosing an adequate staff, for strain and
fatigue on the part of those working in the Pavilion
would be inevitable.

The arrangement of the sections is such that
visitors are ﬁrst of all given a lesson on the intel'
ligence of animals, on the services rendered by
animals to man. Then follow humane education
—the reasons why humane education is essential--
protection of birds, including sea/birds and the
suffering caused through the pollution of the seas
by oil, slaughter reform, transport of animals on
land and sea, menageries, performing animals, the
cruelties of trapping and substitutes for fur, good
and bad stabling of cows, the bull’ﬁght, good and
bad bits and shoes for horses. The Animal
Defence Society’s warrwork for sick and wounded
horses of the French Army is also shown. The
anti’vivisecti'on cause is presented in a selection of
the best pamphlets issued by the Animal Defence
Society. The constructive aspects in their hear
ing on the reform of Medicine and the health of
humanity are specially stressed. The publications
of the Health Education and Research Council
are also displayed. Several dioramas were made
for the exhibition: one showing the pollution of
the sea by oil and the effect on sea/birds, another
showing a cattleboat in a storm, another showing
the deplorable conditions of the transport of goats
in Syria, another of the dogs at the Hospice of
Grand St. Bernard.

Excellent publicity for Pavilion ZOOphilia was
ﬁrst of all secured by taking a whole/page adver’
tisement (at heavy cost) in the Guide Oﬂiciel of
the Paris Exhibition. This guide was printed in
a ﬁrst edition of 300,000 copies. Arrangements

95’

were made for the advertisement to stand in all
future editions and in the English edition. Headed
by a charming picture, designed by C. Steele, of
the Pavilion, the advertisement runs :—

VI SITEZ

PAVILLON ZOOPHILIA
' CHAMP’DE’MARS

E‘XPOSITION DU
BUREAU INTERNATIONAL
HUMANITAIRE ZOOPHILE

GENEVE: 4, Cour St. Pierre

Fondé par ANIMAL DEFENCE SOCIETY
LONDRES : 15', St. James‘s Place, S.W.1.

L’ANIMAL
DANS
LA NATURE L’ ART

L’AGRICULTURE L’EDUCATION DE L’ENFANT
Questions do Protection Internationale et de Zootechnique

. Moderne: Abatage, Transport, Piéges, Jardins Zoologiques,

Ménageries, Sports et l Jeux, Oiseaux, Services rendus a

l’I-Iomme en Paix et en Guerre, L’Intelligence animale et Psycho-

logie. —- Justice pour les Animaux: Inﬂuence C'ivilisatrice.

En accord aveo 1’Association Prangaise pour la. Défense des
Animaux.

The preparations and organisation have required
much time. Miss Lind’af’Hageby has spent
weeks in Paris and has personally supervised the
arrangements in Paris, London and Geneva. She
has also had to undertake much travel. From
Geneva a four’page circular announcing the ven’
ture was sent out in June. There were English
and French editions and societies throughout the
world were notiﬁed and invited to show their
interest. Mrs. Mordan, Secretary of the Geneva
Bureau, wrote innumerable personal letters to all
likely to be interested in the various countries.
She also has had to spend much time in Paris.
In the publicity campaign carried out in Geneva
most valuable help was given by two devoted
workers for the cause, the Countess Lily Alberti
d’Enno and Madame Kalnins, wife of the Latvian
Delegate to the League of Nations. Mademoiselle
Haas, the Assistant Secretary, to the Geneva
Bureau, who was soon to leave the service of the
Society to marry, spared herself no trouble in
giving help in all the rough work of packing up
exhibits. From the London Ofﬁce thousands of
circulars relating to Pavilion Zoophilia were sent to
members and friends of the Society and the publi’
city work was continued from a Paris ﬂat, close to
the Exhibition, which served as an oﬂice. The
Duchess of Hamilton made several journeys to
Paris to give advice and practical help. Miss
Schartau, the Secretary of the Animal Defence
Society, came to Paris to help with the Pavilion
on several occasions and so did Miss B. C. Delius,

 

 




 

 

 

96 Progress Today—The Humanitarian and Anti’Vivisection Review

the Hon. Treasurer. The Duchess of Hamilton
and Miss Nora Logan, Hon. Secretary of the
London Exhibition, travelled with the caravan
from London, successfully surmounting thorny
and unexpected difﬁculties at the douane. Pavilion
Zoophilia has, in short, exacted much time, labour
and devoted service from those desirous of making
it a success.

The Executive Council of the Animal Defence
Society are deeply grateful to all those who have
sent donations to the Pavilion Zoophilia Fund. A
list of the donations will be published in the next
issue of PROGRESS TO’DAY.

There have also been gifts for the Exhibition
and some objects sent on loan. All these have
been gratefully received.

It is believed that the Exhibition will remain
open until the end of November and the full report
will not be published for some time.

Meanwhile the luminous globe outside the
Pavilion sends out its message in the evening of
.Many Colours One Light—the motto of the Animal
Defence Society’s International Bureau and Awork.

Three Lectures by
Miss LindrafrHageby

The lectures given by Miss Lind’af’Hageby at
15, St. James's Place, drew large audiences. A
microphone with loudspeakers in the various rooms
was installed, so as to enable listeners to hear on
the different ﬂoors of Animal Defence House. The
Subject of the lectures, which were extensively
advertised in the Press, were :——— A'New Discovery:
The Thinking, Speaking, Counting Dogs, of
Weimar (April 14th); The Place of Animals in
Human Thought: Religion, Poetry, Science (April
16th); Mysticism and the Universal Kinship
(April 215t). There have been many requests for
full reports of these lectures. They will be pub
lished in pamphlet form.

Press Comment on “ Thinking
and Speaking Animals.”

The ﬁrst lecture, in particular, attracted much
attention in the Press. On April 11th the Sunday
Dispatch published a three'column illustrated
article on the forthcoming lecture, an interview
with Miss Lind’af’Hageby, in which stress was laid
on the fact that hundreds of people from all parts
of the world, including scientists and professors
have been to see the dogs at Weimar. Miss Lind!
avaageby was reported to have said, “ those who
were sceptical and came to scoff have gone away

astounded, as I was at their uncanny intelligence.
I know the facts sound incredible, but was not
wireless communication equally incredible, before
mankind became familiar with it? The Germans
have developed the study of Animal Psychology,
particularly that of speaking’dogs, more than that
of any other nation.” The Manchester Guardian
(April 15th) published a report of the lecture and
the evidence presented which ended with a refer/
ence to the lecturer’s statement that “ from the
animal protection point of view these proofs
that animals have thinking/minds are of great
importance, since the basis of cruelty to animals
is the belief that they have no minds and are
just things." “ Beachcomber ” in the Daily
Express (April 24th) made merry over a para!
graph in the Manchester Guardian which he
thought very funny and which he published
in italics and without any comment. This was
the passage: “ Miss Lind’afrHageby has pub’
lished a list of sixty’two ‘ speaking ’ animals. Most
of them are educated dogs, seventeen are educated
horses, but since Fips of Stuttgart died Daisy of
Mannheim is the only educated ‘cat on her list."
Eips of Stuttgart was a dog, not a cat. The Daily
Herald published notices of the lecture (April 14th
and 15th) in which reference was made to the
strange story to be told, and—when it had been
told—to the conviction that :——-“ a new terror has
come into the lives of all of us. We will now
have to worry about what our friends” dogs think
of us. Miss LindtafrHageby,” wrote the Daily
Herald, “ told hundreds of men and women animal
lovers that she has met and talked to educated dogs
that can talk, count, read, do arithmetic and discuss
geography, as well as sum up visitors to their
homes.” The Observer observed, in reference to
the lecture, that “ the wise dog will have to be very
careful how it thinks and speaks and counts in the
Totalitarian State.” In two issues of the Magazine
Programme (for theatres), Major C, E, W, Beddoes,
writing under “ Your Dog and Mine,” stated that
he was much “intrigued ” by the description of the
talking/dogs and that, as he was leaving for ,
Germany, he was making a special effort to see the
dogs. (April 19th and May 3rd.) There were
not1ces in Light, the New Statesman and Nation
and 1n the Dog World. Two Worlds published an
interesting article by Edward Osborne, being an
1nterv1ew w1th “ Kurwenal, the Strangest Animal
Story ever Recorded,” in which the writer described
his own experiences in Weimar :—

I was 1n Weimar some time ago, and had the good
fortune to “be inyited by the lady who had trained
Kurwenal ; she is a portrait painter by profession and
belongs to an old aristocratic family. There were pefhaps

eight visitors present, including a doctor from Leipzig,
who was keenly interested.

d.Kurwe'nal ' was seated on a chair near his mistress,
an the Visitors sat round a large table facing the dog.

 




 

A prillfune, 19 3 7.

I do not propose to. give an exhaustive account of all
that happened, but just a few incidents which struck
me as being very remarkable.

First of all, the Leipzig doctor was offered an ordinary
school copy’book, with written extracts from various
authors, poetry and prose. He was invited to read out
aloud anything from the book, and chose something from
Goethe, Kant and others. Each time, long before the
reading was ﬁnished, the dog made impatient noises and
gestures, as much as to indicate that he knew the answers,
and the good man was not obliged to complete the
reading.

Only a fraction of a second afterwards, “Kurwenal”
barked out the correct answer according to the code
of the numbered alphabet with which each of us was
provided.

Then his mistress invited any of us to give him
simple exercises in mental arithmetic, adding and sub’
tracting. She pointed to me and said: “ ‘Kurwenal,’ this
gentleman looks as though he understands ﬁgures; I will
ask him a simple sum." She then asked how many times
six was contained in twenty'four? After a slight hesir
tation I replied, “Three times.“ “Kurwenal” barked
“No," impatiently. His mistress said, “Try again.“
This time I answered, “Five times.” Again the dog
barked “No,H sharply. Not to be beaten, I asked the
dog, “Well, how many times do you think it should
be? ” He immediately barked the correct answer. All
ihe mental arithmetic exercises were correctly solved by
im.

We were then asked to write down any short sentence
we pleased, and were told that the dog would read and
bark out the words. I wrote in printed characters, but
in German, “Do you know that you are called dog in
my language ? " His mistress showed him the sentence,
and then pointing to the word “ dog " asked, “What
language is that ? " The dog barked out, “Englisch,”
“ But where did you learn that the word was English ? "
she persisted. He answered, “ An English lady visited us
last year; she told me." (If I remember rightly, I was
told that the lady in question was Miss Lind/af’Hageby,
or a friend who was with her.)

'Correct answers were received to such questions as
names and addresses of friends, etc.; and when asked
whether he preferred male or female company he said
he preferred the ladies, because they were more gentle.
Asked whether he liked a certain dog belonging to a
neighbour, he said, “No, he is too stupid; I prefer the
company of human beings.” (April 9th, 1937.)

There was a sympathetic report of the lecture
in Psychic News, in which the writer laid stress on
a statement made by the lecturer, that in addition
to possessing unsuspected mental powers, animals
hadh powers that human beings had lost. (April
24t .)

The Huddersﬁeld Daily Examiner wrote in a
leading article :—

That dogs can talk will be no news in the nursery,
for children's lore is already full of speaking animals.
Puss in Boots, the Three Bears (and especially the
Littlest One), and the Wolf that gobbled up Red Riding
Head’s grandmother are but a few instances drawn at
ran om.

Grown’ups, however, who are unfortunately more
sceptical, will ﬁnd it less easy to swallow the extra
ordinary stories about the “talking dogs of Weimar

97

which Iviiss LindvafrHageby told to a London audience
on Wednesday. ' '

The more we know, the more we realise we don't
know, and to say that such things cannot happen is
certainly unscientiﬁc. Before, however, they are accepted
as facts, much fuller inquiry is needed; for many similar
phenomena have proved to be “ fakes." “ The more I see
of men, the more I like dogs,” remarked King Charles
the Second;* and without agreeing with this very cynical
verdict on humankind, it must be admitted that many
animals, dogs especially, have displayed quite remarkable
intelligence. At least Miss Lind’afrHageby is right in
suggesting that proofs that animals have thinking minds
and are not “ just things " would be of great importance
from an animal protection standpoint.

(April 16th.)

Amongst the journals which published comment
on the ﬁrst lecture that of Truth should not be for!
gotten. (April 14th.) It was facetious, incredulous,
and, after a kindly pat on the back, Miss Lind’af’
Hageby was solemnly warned—with all respect,
that she will bring her life’s work into “derision
and disrepute ” if she asks the world to take her
description of the talkingrdogs seriously :—

Some years ago in one of his revues Mr. C. B. Cochran
offered for our entertainment “The Singing Duck.“ As
a songster, the duck was not much of a success, but it
is only fair to say that he (or was it a she?) compared
not discreditably with some of the revue choru's’girls—
and indeed some of the revue stars—who were then before
the public. More recently, the dark days of winter were
cheered by reports, in a law case, of the uncanny vati’
cinations of the Talking Mongoose, known to his pals
as Jeff. He could read people’s characters and foretell the
future in good Royal English. At least, so it was said.
But the newspaper publicity affected Jeff's vocal organs,
for he has not given tongue since. Or if he has, his
oracular pronouncements have been kept quiet. The post
of animal marvel was thus left vacant, but it was certain
that it would not be vacant for long.

Jeff has been nobly succeeded by Kurwenal, a dachs?
hund, and Lumpi, a fox terrier, both of Weimar. Last
Sunday Miss Lind'af’Hageby told the Sunday Dispatch
all about them. Taste Miss Lind/afI-Hageby, Kurwenal
can bark conversationally with as much intelligence as
any curry’ﬂushed warrior in Cheltenham, he has “ great
thinking and observation faculties,” he has an exCellent
memory, he can do arithmetical sums, and he can recog’
nise quotations from Shakespeare, Goethe and Schiller,
whose works have been read to him. Also, to questions
such as “Do you know why the church bells are
ringing ? “ he answers: “ Sunday, Church." Most
probably he knows why little Audrey laughed, for Miss
Lind/afIHageby maintains that he has a keen sense of

humour.

Lumpi, on his part, does not communicate by barks,
but by taps. He is by way of being a lightning calcu‘
lator, he can tell the time, he knows the difference between
Roman and 'German Gothic type, he is a judge of art
and also of music. Once he was asked his opinion of
a trombone player‘s performance and responded with
“deeply moving "—and I am sure it was. Trombone

performances always are.

 

* There are few sayings to which such varied authorship has been
attributed as the above. It has been given as a quotation from
Schopenhauer, Madame de Staél, Rousseau and Pascal. King Charles
the Second is an addition, and a welcome addition. The wide interest
which has been shown by so many authors in the saying is at any
rate ﬂattering to the dogs.-—-—L.S. ‘

 




 

98 Progress Today—The Humanitarian and Anti’Vivisection Review

Miss Lindvaf'Hageby is a woman to whom the whole
dumb creation is under a tremendous debt of gratitude.
For years she has warred bravely‘against each and every
form of cruelty to which animals are or might be sub’
jected. For that, we all honour her. She is, further,
a woman of vigorous intellect and sanity of judgment—-
only excepting where animals, and particularly dogs, are
concerned. And so, with all respect, I warn her that
she will bring her life's work into derision and disrepute
if she asks the world to take her description of Kurwenal
and Lumpi seriously.

The great discoveries, whether physical or
psychic, have come out of the “ impossible.” There
have always been men and women who have clung
to incredulity. The marvels of electricity, of the
telegraph, the telephone, the radio, of television,
as well as those of hypnotism and telepathy, have
all had their hosts of cocksure opponents. Even
Napoleon—otherwise so bold—was not immune.
He did not believe that the use of steam could
ever be of practical value in propelling ships.
Weatherrbeaten and experienced admirals once
solemnly declared that iron as material for ships
was an “impossibility ” since everyone knew that,
though wood would ﬂoat, iron would sink.

In the domain of animal psychology we are only
at the beginning of events. Truth may proﬁtably en’
gage in a study of the conquest of “ impossibilities.”

The Health Education and

Research Council : A Series
of Medical Lectures

The important series of lectures by Dr. Dorothy
Mazel, Dr. Cyril V. Pink, Dr. B. P. Allinson,
Dr. R. Fielding/Ould and Dr. M. Beddow Bayly
delivered in April and May at 1’5, St. James’s Place
also attracted large audiences. A résumé of these
lectures is published on another page. They will
soon be available in pamphlet form. The Times of
April 13th published the following report of
Dr. Pink's lecture :-——

FOOD REFORM IN THE NURSERY: GREATER
RESISTANCE TO DISEASE

Dr. C. V. Pink, resident Medical Ofﬁcer, Stoneﬁeld
Maternity Home, speaking at the Headquarters of the
Health Education and Research Council last night, pointed
out the importance of right diet in earliest infancy as
affecting the health of the coming generation. He had
seen 1,500 expectant mothers change their diet to a ﬂesh,
free one, including a large proportion of uncooked food;
in all cases beneﬁt resulted, and often very striking im’
provement in health. Most of their babies had been
brought up on strictly vegetarian food, and some were
now 16 years old. As a group they were above the
average in health, being specially free from septic diseases
such as mastoid abscess. When they caught measles the
illness was often over in 24 hours, and was so slight
that diagnosis would have been impossible but for the
fact that infection was known to have occurred.

In speaking of the danger of tubercular infection from
milk, he said that a considerable number of. children had
been reared without cows’ milk. From the age of nine
months infants could be educated to assimilate vegetable
proteins, and those brought up on a milkvfree diet had
been remarkable for satisfactory teething, good physical
development, and immunity from disease. They were
unusually alert and enterprising.

The Duchess of Hamilton presided.

These medical lectures, which were well adverr
tised in the Press—lay and medical—aroused keen
interest. At the conclusion of each, questions were
asked, and answered by the lecturers. The Health
Education and Research Council is attracting much
public attention and receiving new medical
adherents. The importance of the objects of the
Council cannot be overestimated. The need of
reform in the teaching and practice of Medicine
is now widely recognised and in circles which
formerly scorned such ideas. The Council is con’
cerned with the health of the people and with the
failure of the prevalent system of animal experi’
mentation. Evidence relating to the uselessness of
vivisectional experiments will convince many who
are not susceptible to ethical arguments. There
is shocking waste of money—~public and private——
on such experiments, whereas real and vital teach'
ing of the principles of the maintenance of health
receives small ﬁnancial support. Hence the great
importance of the Council. Mr. George Arliss is
Chairman of the Executive Committee.

The Lancet is naturally not pleased. The follow’
ing amusing comment appeared in that journal.
under the title “ Grains and Scruples ” (February
13th, 1937):—- ,

If there is one reason more than another for the lack
of respect for the doctor as a leader in his proper sphere
it is probably the fact that he “gives " too readily in
the face of fads and cults and transient notions. Instead
of refusing to traffic with pseudo’science and pseudo’art,
protesting against them and warning the public that sale
vation does not lie in these directions, he joins in the
worship of the false gods, not only passively but too
often actively. Oft'times he fears that not to do so will
proclaim him “ narrow’minded." Whereas it is just this
sort of narrow’mindedness that constitutes one of the
doctor’s chief duties to the public. After all, it is only
he who can detect the cloven hoof and, when he sees
it, it is in the public interest that he shouts the fact from
the house’t‘ops.

If we look down the lists of patrons and committees .

of many of the health “ movements“ that originate in
the vanity and half'knowledge of retired service men,
priests, ﬁnanciers, and litterateurs we ﬁnd the names of
medical men in abundance. The public does not know,
as we do, that the same names recur in a number of
these lists and that the names have no meaning for us
except that they belong to colleagues of whom we are
heartily ashamed, men with anti'minds, who have an itch
for the irregular and the unorthodox. Charity leads us
to say that they “believe “ in the queer doctrines they
support, but, even if they do, it is our duty to proclaim
them as antiesocial. Examples would ﬁll my “ Grains

 




 

A pril’Iune, 19 3 7.

and Scruples " pages, but here is one, to hand this week.
“The Health Education and Research Council " has, as
one of its professed objects, “the encouragement and
support of methods of healing which are dissociated from
experiments on animals such as Homoeopathy, Herbalism,
Nature Cure, . . . Osteopathy . . . wireless wave therapy,
vegetarian and fruitarian systems of dietetics . . ." Some
thirty legally qualiﬁed British doctors are listed as
“advisory members " and their names are printed at the
head of the circular letter. Accompanying the letter is
a book with the title “Cancer: the Failure of Modern
Research.” The “blurbs” printed on the paper cover
are extracts from two reviews which appeared in a couple
of medical journals. One of these states that “the book
throws a ﬂood of light on the absolute failure of modern
cancer research." The other says, “this is an excellent
exposure of the failure of modern cancer research which
we have long recognised to be conducted, on entirely
wrong lines.“ Unfortunately we are not told what are
the right lines along which cancer research should be
conducted.

In parentheses under the main heading of this circular
letter occur the words “International. Dissociated from
Experiments on Animals." Which seems to suggest that
these are our old friends the Anti’Vivisectionists in a
new guise. And, on reﬂection, we are conﬁrmed in‘ this
view by some of the names on the executive committee.
I wonder if it has occurred to any of the doctors on the
advisory board that if they neglected to use antitoxin
in a case of diphtheria nowadays they would almost
certainly incur a charge of criminal neglect? But since
martyrdom has its own special attraction for some folk
this consideration, after all, may not have been lost
sight of.

The writer of these notes, who calls himself “A
Rover ” is certainly in urgent need of excursions
in the ﬁeld of the History of Medicine. He will
then ﬁnd that the “ queer doctrines ” which prove
a stumbling block to his intelligence are the only
ones which mark real progress in Medicine and
practical success in the art of healing. For the
History of Medicine is a record of fashions and
fallacies, which have been discarded and also of
sound principles of prevention and treatment of
disease, which, persisting throughout the ages, have
proved their true worth. These principles are
those of Nature/Cure and Natural Diet. A man
who, in these days of supposed hygienic enlightenr
ment, writing in the Lancet, can sneer at Nature,
Cure, Osteopathy, Homoeopathy and dietetic reform
may deserve our pity, but he should also be placed
on record as a mental antiquity. The two Medical
journals which have expressed sympathy and
support of Dr. Beddow Bayly’s book on Cancer:
The Failure of Modern Research, published by the
Health Education and Research Council, are the
Medical World and the Medical Times.

Coronation: More About Not
Wearing Ermine

The Duchess of Hamilton did not wear ermine on
her Coronation robe. The following appeared in
the Evening Standard, of May 11th:

99

The Duchess of Hamilton will be the only duchess
at the Coronationgto wear an artiﬁcial fur fabric on her-
peeress‘s robe as a substitute for ermine. She is doing
this as part of her vigorous campaign against trapping.
The robe she will wear tOvmorrow is one she had at the

last Coronation, when she was a bearer of Queen Mary’s ‘

canopy.

She discarded ermine because of the cruelty inr
volved in the trapping of ermine (see pages 47 and
48 of PROGRESS TO/DAY, January’March 1937,
Vol. XVI, No. 1). There have been erroneous
reports in several newspapers, stating that the
Duchess of Hamilton had selected rabbit’fur as a
substitute for ermine. One American newspaper
contained an article entitled “ Rabbit in the Abbey,”
which led to some correspondence and protests.
There was, of course, no truth in the statement,

‘ as she never wears fur of any kind and encourages

by every means possible the manufacture and
wearing of the beautiful and serviceable textile

substitutes for fur, which are now on the market. ..

Second Reading 'of Cinematograph
Films (Animals) Bill

This Bill was read a Second time on April 9th,
1937. The Debate which took place on this occa'
sion is of great interest to all humanitarians. The
Animal Defence and Anti’Vivisection Society has
conducted a long and strenuous campaign to rouse
public opinion against ﬁlm cruelties in Britain and
other countries to which the Reports of the SOciety
and this journal bear witness. There will be
further reference to this Bill in another issue and
extracts from the ofﬁcial report of the Debate will
be printed.

The Film Weekly published a leading article
entitled “ No Stand'Ins for Them,” which con'
demned cruelty to animals in the production of
ﬁlms. The following letter was sent to the Editor

of the Film Weekly.

We wish to express to you our great appreciation
and thanks for your expression of opinion which will
be of the greatest help to all who deplore the fact that
some ﬁlms show scenes of cruelty or brutal treatment
of animals. N. HAMILTON AND BRANDON (President),
L. LIND’AFIHAGEBY (Hon. Director), The Animal Defence
and Anti'Vivisection Society.

(April 17th, 1937.)

Today’s Cinema, of June 24th, published a re,
port of a paper read by Lord Tyrrell of Avon, the
Chief Film Censor, at the opening session of the
C.E.A. Summer Conference, from which the
following is quoted :-———

Another matter to which I wish to draw your attention
is the inclusion of animals in ﬁlms. You will remember
that my predecessor, Mr. Shortt, addressed you on this
subject at Cardiff, and I would again emphasise the fact
that the Board does not allow, and has never allowed,
incidents in ﬁlms showing cruelty to animals, or restraint

and __-..._-_ ._v.
. , . .

 




 

 

 

 

100 . Progress To’day—‘The Humanitarian and Anti’Vivisection Review

amounting to cruelty. Whilst this is so, there is a Bill
at present before Parliament, which, if passed into law,
is to be knOWn as the Cinematograph Films (Animals)
Act, 1937. It is sponsored by Sir Robert Gower, repre’
senting the R.S.P.C.A. It was read a second time on
April 9 last, when about 20 members were present in
the House. Eventually, it was committed to a Standing
Committee. The Bill has been very considerably amended
by the Drafting Committee, but the ﬁrst draft would
have been more or less unworkable.

It precluded the exhibition of any ﬁlm, even if it
contained one incident which it might be alleged involved
cruelty, and even if that incident had been expurgated
by the Censors. Sir Robert Gower agreed to further
amendments before the Bill came to the Committee Stage.
In its present form it can do no harm, but I consider
it to be redundant. I agree with the discussions which
took place on this subject during Mr. Shortt‘s lifetime,
when it was unanimously decided that the only proper
and. effective course to safeguard animals from cruelty
was by international action, possibly through the channels
of Geneva.

Commenting on the Bill, <The Times said: “ A pessimist
has been described as a man who wears a belt as well
as braces. In giving the second reading to Sir Robert
Gower’s Bill, the House of Commons shows the prudence
of the pessimist. Once more the Home Ofﬁce proclaimed
its complete conﬁdence in the absolutely infallible braces,
the‘B.B.F.C.: the House responded by ordering a belt.”
It is too early to say if the Bill will be placed on the
Statute Book, but, whatever happens, it will not interfere
with our ﬁxed policy of preventing the exhibition of
cruelty to animals, which I feel sure is endorsed by every
exhibitor throughout the country.

It is indeed surprising to read Lord Tyrrell’s
statement that the Board of Film Censors has
never allowed incidents in ﬁlms showing cruelty to
animals. The fact is that a number of ﬁlms have
been shown in Britain, in the production of which
there has been cruelty, clearly discernible to
experienced observers of the screen presentation.
PROGRESSTO’DAY of July/September,1936, published
a letter on the subject of ﬁlm cruelties addressed
to Lord Tyrrell by the Duchess of Hamilton and
Miss Lind/afrHageby. The satisfaction with the
present state of affairs expressed by Lord Tyrrell is
at variance with humanitarian demands, and if the

W

Cinematograph Films (Animals) Bill in its ﬁnal form
meets with his approval it is to be feared that it.
will not register much advance.

In regard to international action in Geneva, the:
Resolution proposed by the Duchess of Hamilton
and adopted by the Congress of the International
Federation of League of Nations Societies, held in
Glasgow in June, 1936, was worded as follows:—

“ The XXth Plenary Congress instructs the
Standing Committee on Education to consider how
best the machinery of the League of Nations may
be used to eliminate scenes of cruelty from public
cinematograph displays which are calculated to
create racial hatred, deteriorate human character
and to lower the standard of human conduct.”

On September 25th of last year, the Duchess
of Hamilton was a member of the Deputation
which presented the Resolution to the President

‘of the XVII Ordinary Session of the Assembly

of the League of Nations.

Further action is being taken in Geneva through.
the International Humanitarian Bureau.

Medical Movement Against
Vivisection in Italy

Arrangements have been made for the trans'
lation into Italian of A Survey of the Case Against
Vivisection, signed by 42 members of the medical
profession. The pamphlet will be published under the
auspices of the Unione Antivivisezionista Italiana
(Bologna), of which Dr. Gennaro Ciaburri is the
President, and of the International Humanitarian
Bureau in Geneva.

Scienza e Coscienza, the journal published in
Bologna under the direction of Dr. Gennaro
Ciaburri, records the steady progress of medical and
scientiﬁc opinion against vivisectional experiments
in Italy.

 

 

PAVILION ZOOPHILIA FUND

You haVe read about Pavilion Zoophilia at the great International Exhibition

in Paris. Many readers of PROGRESS To—DAY have Visited it.

All friends

of the Animal Defence Society who realize the value of this unique and
effective undertaking are asked to send a contribution to

PAVILION ZOOPHILIA FUND, 15, ST. JAMES’S PLACE, LONDON, S.W.I

 

 




 

April/him, 193 7.

101

Correspondence

Radiation : D1agnos1s
To the Editor, PROGRESS TODAY.

I heard Dr. Braun’s very interesting lecture on
March 18th, and I thought you might like to hear of
an incident which happened recently, which threw
a strong light on the value of radiation in diagnosis.

A friend of mine had consulted a doctor who
uses a modiﬁcation of the “ Abrams ” system, cone
sisting of a cabinet (in which all radiations but the
patients are cut off), and a human “ sensitive.” As
the result of an hour’s careful examination, the
doctor prescribed vegetable carbon and common
salt.

A little later, my friend and I had the opportunity
to attend a private demonstration by another doctor
who uses the divining/rod in all his diagnoses. He
had never met my friend before, and knew nothing
about him, but it happened that he chose him as
the “ patient ” for the purposes of his
demonstration.

The doctor placed a copper disc over my friend’s
solar plexus, to collect his radiations, and this disc
was connected by a ﬂex to the diviningerod. The
rod then was carried slowly over nearly a thousand
bottles of liquid medicine (homoeopathic), each of
course having its own waveelength.

. The rod “ dipped ” twice, and the bottles indie
cated were vegetable carbon and common salt.

. Thus under the same great principle of radiation,
but illustrated in two totally different ways, the
patient’s needs were correctly indicated.

I recently saw a demonstration at the Garden
Club, when a dowser, who is equally proﬁcient with
both rod and pendulum, showed the audience how
to select the proper soil for any plant. He held his
pendulum over a branch of rhododendron, and then
over some soil which was deﬁcient in lime (and
therefore suitable). The pendulum behaved in
exactly the same way in each case, showing that
the soil was harmonious, Then the chairman
sprinkled powdered chalk over the soil, and as he
did so, the pendulum slowed down, and ﬁnally
stopped, showing that the clay’plus’lime was
inharmonious.

The lectures given to the Members of the British

Society of Dowsers are of extraordinary interest,
touching human life at all points, and incidentally
showing up the theories of many of our doctors and
scientists. Unhappily, our country seems to be far
behind some of the Continental countries in regard
to radiesthesia.

As you no doubt know, the dowsers are divided
into two schools, the disciples of the pendulum and
of the rod. I think the pendulum is much more

common abroad. Those who use the pendulum say
they can detect more delicate indications. Those
who use the rod claim that there is less risk of
auto/suggestion.

You may have read that the well/known d0wser,
Clarke, of Leicester, hasdiscovered over eighty dead
bodies, and in the words of The Times (June, 1936)
has a long “ waitingelist.” How foolish of so many
doctors and scientists to ignore human radiations,
when even in death they enable people to be traced
whom the police, with all their experience and
facilities, cannot ﬁnd.

If all the foregoing is known to you, please excuse
me for having troubled you, and in any case regard
this letter as not calling for any acknowledgment.
London. G. D. WHITEMAN.

Montevideo

To the Editor, PROGRESS TO’DAY,

A copy of your magazine has been left upon our
reading table and several of our readers have called
our attention to its contents. Looking through the
pages of the magazine we ﬁnd many articles of
interest, specially in the present time of crisis that
the world is going through.

Our Association has nearly 3,000 members and
our Library is trying to supply their needs in
general literature, Art, Science and Religion or
Philosophy. ‘

During the year 1936 we loaned 3,484 books.
Unhappily our very restricted resources do not
permit us to subscribe to your magazine. It is for
this reason that we are taking the liberty of writing
to you ‘in the hope that it may be possible for you
to put our name in your mailing list and send us
your valuable magazine, which will, no doubt, bring
inspiration to many of our readers.

Awaiting your kind answer, we beg to remain,
most cordially yours,

ALVARO A. ARAUJO,
President of the Library Commission.
Asociacion Cristiana de Jovenes,
Montevideo, Uruguay.
April, 1937. .

More About Ox/Roasting

To the Editor, PROGRESS TODAY,

I have the honour to enclose herewith copies of
resolutions passed at the Public Meeting of the
Citizens of Bombay held on April 4th, 1937, under
the Presidentship of Mr. Jamnadas M. Mehta,
BarristereateLaw, the then Mayor of Bombay, and
the present Minister in charge of Finance and
Revenue Departments, protesting against cruel
ceremonial of Ox’Roasting on the auspicious

 




 

 

 

 

 

102 Progress Today—The Humanitarian and Anti’Vivisection Review

occasion of Their Majesties’ Coronation Ceremony.
Kindly give it the widest publicity through your
Journal.

Indian view is very strongly against such
inhumane ceremonials and keenly await their
discontinuance.

I Yours faithfully,
R. S. JAVIRI, Honorary Secretary.
The Bombay Humanitarian League,
149, Shroff Bazar, Bombay, 2.
April, 1937.

The Meeting, which was held on April 4th,
. 1937, at the Municipal Corporation Hall, unani’
mously adopted the following resolutions :—

' “ This Public Meeting of the citizens of Bombay
held under the Presidentship of His Worship the
Mayor, respectfully invite the attention of the
Rt. Hon. Stanley Baldwin, Prime Minister of
England, to the cruel and revolting ceremonial of
Oeroasting in public which is contemplated in
various parts of Great Britain on the auspicious
occasion of the coronation ceremony of Their Most
Gracious Majesties the King Emperor and Queen
Empress, and wish respectfully to convey to the
Prime Minister the horror and pain with which such
incidents are viewed by tens of millions of Their
Majesties Indian subjects. This meeting appeals to
the Prime Minister to intervene and secure can!
cellation of. the ceremony which is regarded in India
as an act unworthy of any civilised Nation.

“ This Meeting authorises His Worship the
Mayor to convey the above resolution to the Prime
Minister.

“ That the Bombay Humanitarian League be
authorised to send copies of the resolutions to
foreign newspapers, Vegetarian Societies, Humanie
tarian Societies and to religious Bodies in ,Great
Britain and elsewhere with a view to securing
discontinuance of the cruel ceremonial.”

Destruction Of Rabbits by the
Use of Gas

To the Editor, PROGRESS TO’DAY,

In your issue for January/March there is a
statement to this effect: “ It is clearly very difﬁcult
to administer lethal doses by such a method. . . .
There must inevitably be ‘ gassing ’ without killing.”
I enclose herewith some evidence showing that the

impression conveyed by this statement is not borne,

out by experience. Possibly you would like to
revert to the subject in a future issue, in view of
the great importance of HCN for the purpose of
the campaign against gin traps.
‘ I am, yours faithfully,
C. W. HUME.

. The University of London Animal Welfare Society.

London, June, 1937.

 

- \

NUMBER OF RABBITS TRAPPED
ANN UALLY IN GREAT BRITAIN.

Exact ﬁgures are not available, but it is possible
to make an estimate based on (1) the number of gin
traps sold per annum in Great Britain, (2) the
average life of a gin trap and (3) careful statistics
kept by a trapper, Mr. Wickett, who will
give evidence if desired. The calculations were
given in Man versus Rabbit, page 5, and led to
an estimate 'Of 36,000,000, but this should now be
increased.

HUMAN ENESS OF CYANIDE FUMIGATION.
Letter describing human experience, from

Mr. J. D. HAMER, F.I.C.
Consultant Chemist to the Orient Line.

March 12th, 1936.

I have working for me at present E. Paine, aged 5'0.
This man was opening containers of cyanide in prepara’
tion for distributing the gas on the R.M.S. ‘Orama’
in July 1927. He received a very severe dose of gas
and was unconscious within two seconds. We treated
him with oxygen and artiﬁcial respiration for twenty
minutes and his heart had almost ceased to beat. Then
his breathing became deeper and he was fully conscious
again ten minutes later. After walking about in the
open air he said he felt ﬁt enough to carry on with his
work. This man just remembers falling off to sleep and
says he had no nausea or distress of any kind, neither
were there any noticeable afterreffects.

All my fumigation men have been gassed to the point
of insensibility from time to time and all declare the
experience, although frightening, is quite painless.

Dr. Chas. P. White, the Port of London Medical
Oﬂicer, was ﬁshed out of a hold of the SS. ‘ Mauretania '
some years ago quite insensible from cyanide poisoning.
He tells me it was an absolutely painless experience
ﬁld he can think of no more humane method for ending
1 e.

It is quite easy for me to produce six witnesses who
have been in various stages of collapse up to complete
unconsciousness from HCN poisoning and who will swear
to its painlessness apart from mental nervou'sness. You
have permission to use this statement and Dr. White,
I know, will be pleased to corroborate it.“

The above statement is interesting, but does not
prove the inaccuracy of the'passage published in
PROGRESS TO’DAY of January’March, 1937. Captain
Hume objects to the following: “ The use of gas to
kill rabbits cannot be accepted as humane, . . . The
gas is evolved from dust sprayed into rabbit holes.
It is clearly very difﬁcult to administer lethal doses
by such a method and the amount of poisoned air
inhaled by rabbits in burrows must vary with the
depth and length of underground passages.”

For all successful processes of anaesthetising, all
methods of rendering living creatures unconscious,
place, time and quantity of drug applied must be
matters of choice and precision. It is clear that the

underground passages of rabbit burrows do not
provide such conditions.

Editor, PROGRESS TO'DAY.

_~.:< .Jr
7““?

w 1 it; 7973

 




 

A peril/June, 1937.

103

SOME PUBLICATIONS OF THE ANIMAL DEFENCE AND

ANTI’VIVISECTION

SOCIETY

15‘, ST. IAMES’S PLACE, ST. IAMES’S STREET, LONDON, S.W.l.

EXPERIMENTS ON ANIMALS.

A Survey of the Case Against Vivisection, A
Non-Technical Exposition in Especial Relation
to the Principal Arguments in Support of the
Practice, with a Preface by George F. C. Searle,
sc.n., F.R.S., sometime University Lecturer in
Experimental Physics, University of Cambridge.
Signatories: MAJOR R. F. E. AUSTIN, M.R.c.s.
(late R.A.M.c.), M. BEDDOW, BAYLY, M.R.c.s.,
L.R.C.P., F. DODSON HESSEY, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P.,
JAMES HORSLEY, M.E., R. FIELDING-OULD, M.D.,
M.R.C.P., N. L. JOYNT, are, two, M.E., H.
VALENTINE KNAGGS, M.R.c.s., I..R.c.r., JOHN
SHAW, M.D.London, M.R.c.s., CYRlL V. PINK,
M.R.c.s., L.R.c.r., . W. THOMAS, M.E.,
ch.E.Edin., ETHEL U. VAWDRBY, L.R.C.P.,
L.R.c.s.Edin., T. G. VAWDREY, M.R.c.s., L.R.c.r.,
MARGARET VIVIAN, L.s.A., B.M.A., W. H. WHITE,
M.R.c.s.. L.R.C.P. (late Capt. R.A.M.c.), H.
FERGIE WOODS, M.D., M.R.c.s., NOEL C. CASSAL,
D.sc., etc. New Revised and Enlarged Edition,
1956. Price 6d.

Reservation Memorandum to the Royal Commis-
sion on Vivisection, by DR. GEORGE WILSON.
Reprinted by permission of Dr. George Wilson
and His Majesty's Stationery Ofﬁce. 96 pages. Free.

Anti-Vivisection Admissions and Recommendations
in the Report of the Royal Commission on
Vivisection. 16 pages. Price 2d.

“Ecrasez l’Infﬁme ! ” An exposure of the mind,
methods, pretences and failure of the modern
Inquisition, by L. LlND-AF-HAGBBY. 113 pages.
Price 2/6, cloth bound; Paper Cover, 2/-.

The Futility of Arguing from Experimental Condi-
tions in Animals to Natural Conditions in Man,
by M. BBDDOW BAYLY, M.R.c.s., I..R.C.P. Price 1d.

Why Vivisection Experiments on Dogs should be
Prohibited. An address with special reference to
the conviction in 1926 of a dog-stealer who
delivered dogs to University College Laboratory,
given by Miss LlND-AF-HAGEBY. Price 2d.

Vivisection and Medical Students, by L. LlND-AF-
HAGEBY. Price 3d.

Vivisection: Experiments before Students. Price 6d.
per 100 copies. .

What is Vivisection ? Price 6d. per 100 copies.

In the Company of Anti-Vivisectionists. Price 6d.

‘ per 100 copies.

The Truth About Vivisection. Chart showing that
cruel experiments are permitted under the present
law, and how it is administered. Illustrated.
Price 1/- per 100 copies.

Does Vivisection Cause Pain ? Free.

Deeds of .Dogs and The Truth about Vivisection.
New edition, printed on both sides. Free.

HELP THE DOG LEAFLETS, 1933:

1. What is a “Stray Dog” ?
2. The Laboratory Mind and Experiments on

Dogs.

3. The Dog: The World’s Super Lover.

4. Dogs and the Last Royal Commission on
Vivisection (1912).

5. Experiments on Dogs Useless in Investigating
the Nature and Treatment of Cancer.

6. Stolen Dogs: Cases in London, 1926.
Philadelphia, Cologne and Toronto.

7. War Dogs: Their Bravery. All Free.

How Dogs are Treated in Vivisection Laboratories:
Scottish Experiments. Illustrated. Published by
Progress T‘s-day. Price 1d.
ruel Experiments on Dogs and Cats Performed
In British Laboratories, by L. LIND-AF-HAGBBY-
Reprinted . from T1): Anti-Vivirectian and
.Hfzmamtarran Review. Price 2d.

VIVIsection and Fundamental Principles, by O. T-
MILLER_. Price 1d.
he Anti-Vivisection Declaration, by L. LIND-AF-
Hanan?“ Free.

Is Vrvrsectlon Morally Justifiable and Scientiﬁcally
Necessary ? . A, Debate between the Catholic
Students Union of the University of Edinburgh
and the Scottish Society for the Prevention of
VIVIsectIon. Price 3d.
he.Mora.l and Scientiﬁc Foundations of the Anti-

tvtsectron Movement. An address by Miss
MAP-HAGEBY delivered in Geneva. Price 2d.

 

Worse. than Useless. An Indictment against Vivi-
section, by L. LIND-Ar-HAGEEY. Price 2d.

Poison Gas Ex eriments on Living Animals. The
Horrors of alisbury Plain. Price 2d.

Peace, Pot-ton and Poison Gas, by M. BEDDOW
BAYLY, M.R.c.s., L.R.c.P.

Desecration, by THE DUCHEss or HAMILTON. Free.

Vivisection in the Light of Philosophy and Modern
Science, by M. BEDDow BAYLY, M.R.c.s., L.R.C.P.
Price 3d.

Devils. A Poem by WILLIAM KEAN SEYMOUR.
Price 1/- per 100.

A Pin-prick Experiment. Illustrated. Price l/-
per 100.

Dr. Sergius Voronoﬁ and Rejuvenation by Means
of Grafting Monkey Glands, by M. BEDDOW
BAYLY. M.R.c.s., L.R.C.P. Price 2d.

Vivisection Experiments on the Teeth and Jaws
of Animals, by W. WEYENETH, M.D. Price 2d.

The Unholy Alliance between the Slaughterhouse
and the Vivisection Laboratory: Witchcraft .of
Ancient Days or the Modern ashion of Usrng
.Excreta, by NINA HAMILTON AND BRANDON.
Price 1d.

The Laboratory Cranks: Fantasies and Capers of
the American Medical Association, by L. LIND-
AF-HAGEBY. Price 2d.

A Review and Refutation of the Principal Claims
Made on Behalf of Vivisectional Research, by
JOHN SHAW, M.D. (London). Reprinted-from T be
Ami-Visitation and Humanitarian Review. 1927.
Price 2d. .

The Moral Aspect of Vivisection, by G. N. W.
THOMAS, M.E., CH.E. (Ed.), Barrister-at-Law.
Price 1d.

The Futility of Experiments on Animals, by DR.
H. FERGIE WOODS. Price 2 .

Medicine. The Actual and the Ideal, by H.
FERGIE Woons, M.D., L.R.c.s.. L.R.C.P. Price 2d.

Homoeopathy and Vivisection, by DR. E. PBTRIE
HOYLE. Price 2 .

Malaria, Scourge of the Human Race, by M.
BEDDow BAYLY, M.R.c.s., L.R.C.P. Price 2d.

The True Germ Theory, by DR. H. VALENTINE
KNAGGs. Price 1d.

Why I am an Anti-Vivisection Doctor, by J.
STENSON HOOKER, M.D. Price 2d.

Tyranny of an Ancient Superstition. Vaccination
causes disease and death. by L. LIND-AF-HAGBBY.
Illustrated. Price 3d.

Vaccine Lymph Produced Through Vivisection of
Calves, by LILY LOAT. Free.

The “ Schick” Inoculation for Immunisation
Against Diphtheria, by BEDDow BAYLY,
M.R.c.s., L.R.C.P. ‘64 pages. Price 4d. .

The Schick Test and Immunisation Against
Diphtheria, by LILY LOAT. Price 1d.

Tetanus and Anti-Toxin, by M. BBDDOW BAYLY,
M.R.c.s., L.R.C.P. Price 1d. ,

The Germ Theory of Disease and Serum-Therapy,
by M. BEDDOW BAYLY, M.R.c.s., L.R.C.P. Price 2d.

The Deadly Effect of Anti-Rabies Inoculations, by
DR. HENRY BOUCHER. Price 1d.

Diphtheria and Scarlet Fever Immunisation.
Dangers of Inoculation. Price 1d.

More Criminal Medicine: A Report of Callous
Experiments on Children, by L. LIND-AP-HAGEEY
an N. HAMILTON AND BRANDON.

Childbirth Mortality: Startling Facts and Figures,
by L. LIND-AP-HAGBBY. Price 1d.

ThFe Dental Counter-Competition: Award of Prizes.

ree. .

Prize Essays in Dental Counter-Competition:

Considerations sur l’Inutilité et la Cruauté des
Experiences Proposées par la Federation
Dentaire Internationale, ar GASTON GUERARD,
Docteur de l'Université e Paris, Professeur dc
Dentisterie Opératoire et d’Anatomie Dentaire
Humaine. Price 6d.

The Best Means of Preventing Dental Decay in
Man and the Uselessness and Cruelty of the
Projected Experiments of the International
Dental Federation, by J. SIM WALLACE, M.D.,
D.sc., L.D.s., r.A.c.D. Price 6d.

On the Uselessness and Cruelty of the Proposed
Experiments and the Best Means of Preventing
Dental Decay in Man, by F. W. BRODERICK.
M.R.c.s., L.R.C.P., L.D.s. Price 6d.

Réponse a Une Etude Vivisectionniste Prpposée
par la Fédération Dentaire Internationale:
Quels Sont les Meilleurs Moyens pour
Combattre la Carie Dentaire, par LUCIBN
FAVRE, Médecin-Chirurgien-Dentiste. Price 6d.

Kulturelle Massentierquaelerei im Wettbewerb
Medizinischer Wissenschaften, von DR. G.
ADOLPH CHARMACK. Price 6d.

Wir Brauchen in der Zahnheilkunde Keinen
Tierversuch, von Dr. med. ANTON LANTSCHNER.
Price 6d.

A Public Debate between W. D. Halliburton, Esq.,
M.D., F.R.s., Professor of Physiology at King’s
College, London, and Miss Lind-af-Hageby.
Held at the Portman Rooms on May 16th, 1907.
Price 6d., post free.

Evidence Before the Royal Commission on Vivi-
section given by Miss Lind-af-Hageby On May

lst and June 5th, 1907. With appendices '

relating to her controversy with the Vivisectors
impugned in the " Shambles of Science."
Answers to 1,111 questions, 237 pages. Bound
in green cloth or in paper cover. Free.

The Brown Dog and His Memorial, by
EDWARD K. FORD. Illustrated. An account of
the Brown Do Riots, and an inquiry into their
psychology an purport. Written in an attractive
and trenchant style. Price 1/-, post free.

The Hall Mark of Cain, by NELL ST. JOHN
MONTAGUE. A Story. Illustrated. Price 2d.

HEALTH AND MEDICAL FREEDOM:

The Basic Principles of Health and Disease, by
M. BEDDow BAYLY, M.R.c.s., L.R.C.P. Price 2d.

The Science of Health: Contributions by
L. LIND-AP—HAGBBY, Dr. M. BEDDow BAva,
Dr. J. STENSON HOOKER, Dr. CYRIL V. PINK,
Mr. ERIC POWELL, Dr. H. FERGIE WOODS,
Dr. JOHN SHAw, Mr. WM. H. WERE,
Mr. RAPHAEL ROCHE, Professor Dr. JOHANN
UDE, Dr. H. VALENTINE KNAGGS, Dr. 1?.
MOINICHEN, Mr. E. L. MACNAGHTEN, Major
J. B. PAGB'I‘, Mr. MILTON POWELL, Mr. B.
ST. JOHN DOHER‘I’Y, Mr. WILERED A. STREETER,
Mr. EUSTACE MILES and Dr. P. PIJL. Price 4d.

The Kellgren Art of Manipulative Treatment, by
N. HAMILTON AND BRANDON. Price 2d.

Progress and Freedom in Medicine. Re art of
Addresses at a Conference held at 15. Shimmer“
Place. Addresses by Miss LIND-AF- AGEDY,
Mr. B. ST. JOHN DOHBR’I’Y, Mr. B. L. MAC-
NAGHTEN, Miss L. LOAT, Mr. ELLIS BARKER,
Mr. FRANK HAWKEN, Dr. BEDDow BAYLY,
Mr. W. H. WERE and the DUCHEss or
HAMILTON. Price 4d.

The New Search for Health: Medical Theories
and the Danger of their Enforcement.
Lecture given at Konserthuset, Stockholm, on
April 25th, 1930. by Miss LmD-Ar-HAGEDY.
Price 3d.

The Failures and Fallacies of Orthodox Medicine,
by L. LlNDcAPoHAGEBY. Price 2d.

The Science of Health: The Defence of
Humanity, by L. LIND-AF-HAGEBY. Price 2d.
Your Personal Health. Does the Failure of Vivi-
section Laboratory Research Concern You?
The Need of Medical Liberty and Organisation
of the Real Science of Healing. (Extract from
gqarezzdl'lnfdml I). By L. LIND-AF-HAGBBY.

“CC .

ANIMAL PSYCHOLOGY ETHICS AND
HUMANE EDUCATION.

Humane Education and Animal Protection as
Civilising- Inﬂuences in the Further-sues of
International Peace: Deputation received by the
President of the Conference for the Reduction
and Limitation of Armaments, April let, 1952.
Price 2d.

The Animal Protection Sections in the Lord
Mayor’s Processions, 1929 and 1930.
Organised by The Animal Defence Society.
(Illustrated Pamphlet.) Price 6d.

 




104 Progress Today—The Humanitarian and Anti’Vivisection Review

Ch ' ti Eth' d th A in: l Kin dom: The Wh Y Sh uld Become a Member of The Model Abattoir,_l..etchworth. Report of Inaugura.
gait; “is“? of. Al? iivingg Cream”. Ahima‘lu Defgnce and Anti-Vivisection Somety. tion of Buildings, July 14, 1927. Pamphlet;
by N. HAMILTON AND BRANDON (Dumxss OP Leaﬂet. 5,33,. . Price 2 . .
HAMILTON)- (“111““th Pamphlet.) Price 6d- Coloured Poster of St. Francis and the Animals. Model Humane AbattOIr. The establishment of a'

Nature Peace, by LEIsA K. SCHARTAU. Price 2d. Price 3s. . . . great example. Illustrated. Price Id.

We and the Rest, by L. LIND-AF-HAGEEY. Price 2d. Other Posters, some coloured. Prices on application. Model Abattoir at Letchworth. r... An Example. to 7

Retribution, by MORLEY STBYNOR. Price 1d. - All Things Bright and Beautiful. A children s all enga 9d m the Meat Industry. , A letter Which

Should We Be Manyosided? by L. LlND-AF-HAGBBY. hymn. Illustrated. Price 1/6 per dozen. appeare in T12: Storm/2 Butt/Jen Journal. Free.
Price 1d. \ Jesus and tIhe Animals: The Friendly Beasts. Humanely-Killed l-Meaft' Pargphlet d

On Being Amused, by L. LIND-AF-HAGEEY. Price 1d. A poem. . ree. ' eVIdence of qua Ity 0 meat. rice 2

Do We Fail '2 A plea addressed to my friends T° A“ “"4"“ 41m" P.“ 3d- 9:51:10": The First English Model Abattoir. Reprinted
and co-workers in the Animal Protection Move- The C3“ *0 Compafiswn- Illummated. SOP . 0th e from TI): Mancbejter Guardian. Free.
ment by 1" LIND'AF'HAGBBY‘ .(Also “30311th benefit Of The Animal Defence SOClCtY: ~11“: -/—. Evidence that Pork and Bacon are not Spoiled by
into French and German.) Price 2d. Help .the Animalh Defenfe andIllAtiiZdem‘f-aii‘g: the Use of the Humane Killer. Speech by

Increase in Cruelty to Animals, by L. 'LINn-AF- ﬁg‘gg” tfgreeplg ‘ rue ty' us p Dr. M, J. Rover/(Nos, Free.

““3"“ Pd“ Z‘L Our Friend the Dog. Illustrated. Price 2d. The Right Way and the Wrong Way odeilling

containing ' '

 

ngoglngpzefdAnwalM 1::50telfittigt1df Pﬁhxgibayn aeti‘trtalfg Rabbits and Guinea-Pigs. Illustrated. Price 2d. Animals for Food. Illustrated. fPrice 1 . '
International Animal Protection Congress, HUMANE SLAUGHTER AND OTHER Ref/10"!) 3" the .D§‘%°“:£rat§mt.og l Egzugﬁie’mgf
Vienna 12th to 17th May 1929. Also The « OTECTION 9‘ 0,,5’ “£51m“ .Y. e 3‘ a . "3.1090
A d. f H 't - P" f th ear ASPECTS OF ANIMAL PR ‘ Meat Iraders Assoaations, and held in Birming-
as r. °rr. “streamers...admirer... r... e... r... 8...... r......, H r... DDDDD r... by r... Dmss or mirror. M...
Z life and 0“th to Animals in Britain or HAMILTON. A Paper read before the Bristol LIND-AF-HAGEBY, and Mr. JOHN DODDs, Free.
P325 11d, ‘ ' Congress of the Royal Institute of Public Health, H man and Inhumane Methods of Destroying

I . u 9

Practical Animal Protection. Practical Work 5:13; “mm“; B .d nd R commendatim Mimi... Problems of ancient Lethalisation.
Series, NO- 1. PUinSth by the Geneva Bureau. :uebmeitted 0by T3}! egcgcﬂzss Ore HAMILTON and Verbatim Report of the Proceedings of a Confer-
4 Pages' F‘ee' Miss Linn-milieu“ on behalf of The Animal encc “£39156“ by The Animal Dem!“ SOCletX» .

Teach the Child. (Illustrated) By L LIND-AF- Defence Society to the Cabinet Committee appointed together W'th Statements and Observations contri-

HAGEBY- Price 1/6 per dozen- to consider the Slaughter of Animals. Free. buted. Price 1/ "
Compassion—The Greatest Attribute of Humanity. Market Day, by L. K. SCHARTAU. Free. The Problem of How to Destroy Dogs and Cats,
An Address by Miss LIND-AF-HAGEBY, delivered Wrecking the Humane Slaughter Bill (Meeting of by M. DUDLEY WARD.

1“ St' Anne's, SOhO- Price Zd‘ Standing Committee B House of Commons ' '
Christmas and the Animals, by NINA HAMILTON June 27th, 1953). Free. The Use Of Carbon MonOXide for the Destruction

. 0 Dogs, by L. LIND-AF-HAGEBY and
“ND BRANDON (DUCHBSS 0" HAMILTON)- mm" 2d- Conditifotis Sof Sigughtefr it;1 England in 336. Free. HAMILTON AND BRANDON.
On Immortality. A letter to Barry, a dog, by L. Success 11 laug ter 0 S eep by the echanical - - . '
LiNDAF-HAGEBY. 38pages. Price 1/-. Bypost,l/1%. Humane Killer. Personal Testimony. Free. Hng°;OIag‘}6 PM!“ m Mme” (Illustrated)
M' d ' A ° 1 Se ‘ ..._N . 1: L ' d Fitti: Facts Figures and Personal Testimonials on the '
lizhcnéougmag sandﬂ’iilkino Dogs “Sip'nfgmar, by Successful Slaughter of Sheep by the Mechanical Impressions of the Spanish Bull-Fight, by L.
MATHILDE,BARONBSS VON RgnAG-LomNGHovgN; Humane Killer, 1928. Price 2/6 per 100. LlND-AF-HAGEBY and NINA HAMILTON .AND
The Speaking Dachshund, by Dr. HELENE BUSCH- The Stockyard, a poem by J. C. SQUIRE. (Reprinted BRANDON (DUCHESS ,OP HAMILTON) Reprinted
ELSNER; Fips, The Speaking Dog of Stuttgart. by kind permissmn of the author.) Price 1d. from TI" AMI-VIVU‘WO” 4”" H”’”“””“”“”
Price 2d- Jewish Slaughter: A Memorandum. The fallacy Review, 1927‘ Price ld‘
Souls of Animals. True Stories of Animals. Price 2d. of assuming that recent laws have established The Bull-Fight in France. Articles reprinted
The Chain of Love, by THE DUCHBSS 0F HAMILTON ﬁiumanle fSlauglhter in Britcziiin. The Enigimurg from Progress To-da]. Price 3d
AND BRANDON. Price 2d. eman or I‘mitaton an contro o ewis .
. ' ' ' Sport. A paper read before the Annual Protection
Th At n b b ANNA KINGSFORD. Ill td killing has failed. (Illustrated.) Free.
siroll? egiecl; , 1%. umina e J‘EiSh Séaughter: Do She chita-Kille d Animals Pfizegrczsds’ 1909, by SIR GEORGE GREENWOOD.
The Hymn of Love, by ANNA KINGSFORD. Price 3d. °'e- °"’c‘°“s"e” Immedmel “he” ‘he ‘7
Inspiration, by ANNA KINGSFORD. Price 3d. Cutting of the Throat? By Pro . Dr. KLEIN, The Slaughter of roung Rooks, by T. 8

Director of the Lennep Abattoir, German . HAWKINS. Illustrated. Sold b the Animal
The Humane Exhibition. Leaﬂet. Free. (Illustrated) Price 2d. y Defence Society. Price 1d. y '

THE ANIMAL DEFENCE AND ANTI/VIVISECTION SOCIETY
15, St. Jamcs’s Place, St. Jamcs’s Street, London, S.W.1.

President: Hon. Treasurer: Founder and Hon. Director:
THE DUCHESS or HAMILTON. MISS B. C. DELIUS. MISS LINUAFIHAGEBY.
. . , Secretary: MISS L. K. SCHARTAU.
All friends of animals who are interested in practical efforts to protect them from cruelty and ill’treatment

are earnestly invited to join this Society. Cheques or Postal Orders should be sent to the Secretary Of the Society
together with the following particulars :—_-

 

 

 

 

Name. (Please state whether Mr.. Mrs. - . Ann
or Miss. or other title.) Residence. Donation. subudggon,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

N __ ___,_~_,_~_ ______

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Member’s Annual Subscription, 105. ; Associate’s, 25. 6d. ; Life Membershi £5 Ch Ties and Postal
Orders should be made payable to The Animal Defence and Anti’Vivisection Soldiety,.15, Setc.l James's Place.

St. James’s Street, London, S.W.l. Bankers: The Midland Bank, 36, Old Bond Street, W.1. Tel.: Regent0845-

 

 




International » Humanitarian Bureau
» BUREAU INTERNATIONAL HUMANITAIRE ZOOPHILE
‘ 4,,COur St Pierre, Geneva. , a
President; Miss ervarémoaer. - H ‘_ Secretary: Mas. M. E. Morrow.

mum. u .

p The Vice'Presidents inelude: The Duke of Hamilton and Brandon, The Duchess of Hamilton and
Brandon, The Marquis of Clydesdale, M.P., Maitre Louis Lespine, 'PrOfessor R. Feldhaus, Dr. Max
Duke of Saxony", Dr. Foveau de Courmelles, Professor Ludwig Quidde, Hofrat Dr. Eduard Melkus1
Eru Elna Tenow, Mrs. Clinton Pinekney Farrell, Fru Christine Geirstld, Dr. G. R. Laurent George:
‘ Arliss. Esq... Robert; Logan, Esq., Redaktc'ir G. Halfdan Liancler. . 7‘ l ' ,

. ‘ The Bureau, with which hundreds of . Societies have aesociated themselves, is a world’
centre for the dissemination of information relating to the treatment of animals, legislation,
7 propaganda. and united action for reform. The Bureau works to promote international
cooperation and has been established with the object of showing that humane education
and-the protection-of ’aninials are an integral part of the movement for international peace

and progressive civilisatiOn.

THE EXHIBITION or THE BUREAU
‘ Shows Slaughter Reform, Transport, Trapping for Fur, Bird Protection, Bullﬁghts, Pithonies,
. Humane Education, Animal Psychology, Vivisection, Nature Cure Methods, etc, etc.

. _ , _ THE. LEAGUE” OF NATIONS

Since its establishment in .1928 the Bureau has Worked ceaselessly to obtain the
. inclusion of animal protection amongst the social and. humanitarian activities of the League
of Nations. T he League has now deﬁnitely accepted this principle by including the prevention
of suﬂ’ering 0f animals in transport and the protection of; seabirds from Oil pollution amongst
" “its ' objects. p. Throughout these years Delegates to the League have visited the Bureau,
Receptions to Delegates have been held, and Statements and Memoranda circulated.

. In April, 1932, the Bureau organised a ’Deputation, supported by over 1,400 Animal Protection
Societies throughout the world, to the President of the COnference ‘ for the Reduction and Limitation of
sArmaments.‘ The 7 Deputation desired to show the civilising inﬂuence and importance of the movement
for the protection of animals and humane eduCation in relation to human character and international
peace. In 1929, in connection with the great International Education Congress, which was attended by
2,000 teachers, the Bureau , organised an Exhibition relating to humane education for children. This
Exhibition included publications, medals, ‘draWings and statistics. Numbers of teachers from every part
of the world visited the“ Exhibition. In“ 1932,- the Bureau ‘ organised a Dental Counter-Competition for
the best essays by qualiﬁed dentists on the asubje'ctvof' the uselessness and cruelty 0f 3 Competition initiated
by the International Dental Federation, based on cruel experiments on the teeth of dogs. The prizes,
amounting to £425, were awarded in Joly, 1933. ‘ Fiftyntwo dentists, representing sixteen countries, took

Part in this Competition.
“The International Bureauhas awarded Humanitarian Prizes to individuals and societies
in recognition of valuable work done in furtherance of the cause of Animal PrOtCCthm.

 




* Come—w #4114168 1: :*e~ } ~; ; .

SATURDAYS EXCEPTED

' f What constltutes cruelty ‘0 ammals "

'7' ‘ 'J' ‘wHave you ever thought about your 1espons1b111ty towards
‘ fellow creatures whxch you explort to obtain meat milk
clothes and pleasure 7 g,_f '

Z, [ ', How far can you make your own 11fe cOnsistent with
' humamty to meals?

' Come to the mal Defence Soaety s Humane 13511111311101;
" ' and see how ammals ate treated 1n slaughterhouses 111
vmsectlon laboratones . 1n traps and for amusement
The exhlbltlon also shows how they should be t1eated

'1 . Do not magme thts IS a show based on ." sentlmentahty
We have no room for false senmment but we know that .
the treatment of annuals and the understandmg of the,
obhganons of fellowsh1p are part of cmhsauon 1tse11'

Hon Secretary of! Humane Exhzbztmn
MIss NORA LOGAN

The ANIMAL DEFENCE AND ANTI VIV ISECTION SOCIETY
1 15' ST JAMES'S PLACE ST JAMES?) STREET LONDON SW1
(formerly 35' Old Bond Street London, W1) ’ "

. " Prestdent .. r, ,, _ . . , " Hon Director:
THE DUCHESS 0P HAMILTON f . " ‘ ,7 1 ‘ ' '_ ' ' ‘ ' 7, .1 MISS LIND AF HAGEBY

 

 

, . 'fffl-rprinted by 81‘- 0““!st pugs, L-mg, i’oftugal Street,Ki11gswu,London. W.C.2, for the Proprietors ‘of P30031258 To DA:Y Tag Humsmnnun
an Art: szaw'uon 33me and publicized by them at 15. 8t Jamess Place, London, 8. 5V 1(former1y at 35- Old Bond Street, W 15.13153;

 




ames $.- Place, St._

,(fom‘zcrly 4t 35;, 014‘ Bond Street WA)

 

 

Founded and Duected;
Four numbers per annum

 

 

‘1 , -\
i
900l‘19lﬁi‘lwnI.~Q£1V7'Q‘llt
k. v I

 

"D‘IVY' 34::

K “1.41":
' ‘ ﬂ ‘. 'v I! ,f ‘
1‘ I? K ' $1.21” {) I‘y‘gﬂ,” WM. {
n.) i" V i"

‘1.” I "n:

xf“'
\

mix 2'}
30731;.
d 1 1, kit”

.I.J(.i‘$;1":‘,}:"$£1
’ n? '1' A 2

 

N

l
41

c .- x
ugo'o.9IIa€Q »

.{x

 

 

, MA -)I l .‘
5‘ 9 11.42 Fulﬁlu'n'lf {51-255,}. '1' I
u h' ./ « )4 .7
[nah Ji. (9" . ﬁx}? .1

Al'r‘
. \I"
Liu'wu'
1;, -

I Rb. ~11 4'55

'HH‘J':

“351‘ .

47 (“er
3,,

 

 

 

 




A Hi" My."
1 v“ u v
79‘ ‘ ‘A _
{15%,(VQ‘33 73/:le
"t 1

v'l ,f‘
' \ I
u "V E .w
s ‘x' . _ l ‘
'f'll-Ie: 53-”. IA;—
‘ I "
l. 5‘ w u
4 to;

\
A Liv“
.. 1‘),_'.‘.
. § .
”'4 "9}: v
‘."f~/," “I
v‘,‘ 7;:1 u -',. -
. v. F‘ 'm’
‘J': “(I “M
w. .
q"

5”; I},(.‘.'{ .113,
“5
'9‘. ‘2'“ “A “

 




