National Canine Defence League—No. 298.

 

By the late Professor WDODRDFFE Hlll, F.R.S,V.S,.

 

( Reprinted by special permission from “ Our Canine Cowman/277072337

-ﬂ ------ “'05. ....... .__..

“I have not the slightest sympathy with the aims and aspira-
tions of vivisectors, because I believe they are based upon false
assumptions founded upon the very essence of cruelty. To do evil
that good may come is had from every point of view. To repay
those creatures to whom we owe so much by submitting them to-
every known physiological experiment is, to say the least of it, an.
iniquitous reward for their devotion and faithful services.

“ Few medical practitioners have the courage to express their
dissent anent vivisection—-—all honour to those who have. Per-1
sonally I care nought for the contrary opinions of men in my own:
profession as to the position I have always taken in this matter.
I am an animal-lover, and no animal-lover can be a vivisector even
with all the wealth accruing from the supposed discoveries await-
ing him. Beyond this, however, I hold it is the bounden duty of
the strong to protect the weak. '

“Bully is a strong term to use, but it is nevertheless exceed-
ingly applicable to the individual who cruciﬁes a poor animal for

 




his own selﬁsh gratiﬁcation. What good to mankind can follow
the knowledge that a frog immersed in sea-water is agitated, or
that athe gastric juice of a dog would dissolve a rabbit’s ear ‘?

“Fancy taking a dog whose companionship you have enjoyed,
upon which every endearment has been lavished, Whose cleverness
and sagacity have amused and interested you, and at your invita-
tion follows you without fear into a laboratory, and'then securing
him to a board, you exclaim, ‘ NOW, to discover something for
my own beneﬁt, I am going to open you alive and make a series
of experiments 1’ Where, then, is your appreciation of the
unstinted affection lavished on you by this dumb creature and
your gratitude to the Author of its being ‘2 Can you, when the
summons comes, go before Him with a clean conscience ‘2 Yet
such acts ocCur daily in physiological laboratories. Well, if
there is a hereafter, rest assured that cruelty by man to animals,
whether dogs or otherwise, will be rewarded by many stripes.”

 

 

 

Petitions, Leaﬂets, and all information can be had gratis of

0.12. JOHNS, Secretary,

NATIONAL“ CANINE DEFENCE LEAGUE,

27, Regent Street, London, SW.

 

Printed and Published by The Holmcsdale PreSs Ltd., Redhilljzmction and London.

 




