/

.

..“
vi '
i
l
t

‘iw-Irrﬂm «gs-is; r; ;‘:§"‘z_‘_-'—‘

FOR THE PROTECTION OF ANIMALS FROM VIVISECTION.

 

 

THE

RIGHT OF TORMENTING.

BY

FRANCES POWER COBBE.

 

 

Mr. Lecky observes that, “only during the present century have
the relations of man to brute been brought within the scope of
ethics.” It is no wonder that such should be the case, for the sense
of moral obligations towards alien races of men has only been
developed in modern times. The old Jew had scanty mercy for the
Gentile, the Greek for the Barbarian; and all the wild tribes of
Africa and America still regard their neighbours much as dogs regard
cats. The Red Indian will travel hundreds of miles merely to
destroy the villages of the inoffensive Esquimaux. By degrees,
however, the blessed lessons of sympathy and mutual obligation
have extended among civilized mankind, though very imperfectly
still between races distinguished by the difference of colour.
How many white men in America, for example, really recognise in full
the rights of Negroes ? What wonder is it then that the idea of owing
any duty or forbearance towards non-human creatures has only

 




 

2

quite recently developed itself, and among the highest nations only ?
In the memory of men now alive, the pen of Sidney Smith occupied
the pages of the Edinburgh Review with scoffs and sneers at
Richard Martin and Erskine for introducing the ﬁrst Act of any
legislation in the world against cruelty to animals. That the
state of things at that time needed such legislation, we have only to
read one of the novels or tour books of the period, to satisfy our-
selves. Horses were ridden and driven to death by every young
“spar ”who could afford to hire one; dogs were used cruelly for
draught, and tormented in the streets by brutal boys; cats were
skinned alive; and the pious Alleyne recorded in his journal that he
paid thirteen pence to afford his friends the pleasure of “Whipping
the Blind Bear! ”

Now it is my contention that the physiologists, immersed in their
studies, have just stopped at this point. They are not before the age,
as they would have us think, and in the “foremost ﬁles of time;”
but they are behind it, and still at the same moral level as the
working classes were generally in England eighty or a hundred
years ago.

Meanwhile the rest of mankind have morally advanced, and in no
direction more markedly than in that of a newly awakened sense of
the duty of kindness to animals. But this sense is as yet vague and
scarcely formulated; and we all feel when we reﬂect on the subject,
that the nature of that duty and the limits of our rights are exceeding
difﬁcult to deﬁne. Bishop Butler’s great axiom (which cannot be too
often called to mind)——that on the simple fact of a creature being
sentient, i.e., conscious of pain, arises our duty to spare it pain—-
forms the broad basis for all we have to build. But I confess I
heartily wish that that noble thinker—the greatest name in the
great Church of England—the man, be it remembered in this connec-
tion, who said he found no reason why animals should not be
immortal,—I wish that this man had gone further, and helped us to
deﬁne better where to draw the line between cruelty on the one
hand, and on the other such impracticable tenderness as that which
would spare noxious insects and parasites, and, indeed, establish the
mistaken kindness of vegetarians altogether.

Pondering over these things for years, a method has suggested

itself to me of testing the justice of our conduct in any particular.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

8

towards the brutes. Let me venture to lay it before you, and if it
approve itself, we may then take it with us and apply it to this
grievous question of Vivisection. Let us suppose that there is an
Umpire between man and brute—a disinterested and just Spectator,
who can alike understand the man’s wants and needs, and the
inarticulate cries of the humble brute. Such an Umpire, my friends,
I believe, does exist, and I name Him, GOD; but for sake of argu-
ment with the physiologist it may be better to speak simply of a
hypothetical umpire and Referee. What sentence, I ask, would such
a. dispassionate Arbiter pass on our general conduct towards the
lower creatures ?

Let us suppose the man to say, “I wish to rear sheep, cows, swine,
fowls. I will take pains that the species be multiplied; and each
individual, so far as I can do it, shall be comfortably fed and
sheltered, and supplied with the necessaries of a happy animal’s
existence for a certain number of months or years,——on condition
that at the end of that time I am at liberty to take its life in the
quickest and least painful way possible; a way far preferable to
natural death by old age.” Would the Umpire, on behalf of the
animal, accept of this bargain? There can be no question he would
freely sanction it.

Or suppose the man to say, “I wish to rear horses to drag my
plough or carry me on their backs, and dogs and cats to guard my
prOperty and be my own ﬁreside companions. I will give them
amply sufﬁcient food and water, and I will not overwork my horses,
or cause my dog’s life to be miserable by chaining it constantly like
a criminal. They shall be mercifully killed if at any time their lives
become burdensome.” Again the Umpire would surely say, “ So
be it.”

Here, then, all our relations to the domestic animals are sufﬁ-
ciently covered and sanctioned. We have only to fulﬁl our side of
the implied contract of careful provision for them while they live and
a quick death at the end, to feel that our use of them is morally right,
and such as cannot offend their Maker and ours.

Then we have to consider the case of wild animals; and, regard-
ing some of them, the man may say, “They and I are natural
enemies, and must always be in a state of war. I must kill them

 

 

 




 

4

in defence of my life if they be lions or “wolves, or in defence of my
property or health if they be vermin or parasites.”

Again the Arbiter says : “ It is well ; these creatures would prey
on you if you did not prey on them. You are within your rights in
destroying them.”

The last case is more difﬁcult. It is that of wild animals, such as
really wild game and ﬁsh (I am not Speaking of deer and pheasants
whose case is the same as that of cattle), creatures on which we
have conferred no beneﬁt and which threaten us with no hurt if we
leave them alone, but which we kill for food. The man pleads, “ I
need food, and in devouring these animals I only take my place
among the carnivora of the world. Nearly all of them live upon
other and smaller creatures. Why should my life, the most valu-
able of all, not be sustained at the cost of theirs ‘2 I engage to kill
themas quickly as possible.”

The answer to this, I believe, would still be acquiescent, though,
perhaps, less completely so than in the former eases. Man is here
not the lord of the world, but merely a link in the chain of animal
life. A clear limitation, however, exists in the terms of the authori-
zation. It must be bondﬁde for use that the harmless wild creature
is deprived of life, not killed for the pleasure of killing—as people
shoot seagulls by the shore, or pigeons in the disgusting matches at
Hurlingham.

Lastly, we come to quite another problem. The man says, “I
wish to vivisect an animal. Up to this hour we will suppose its life

has been well cared for, and it has, on its part, served and loved ,

mankind as its powers permitted. Now I wish to tie it down on a
vivisecting table, and ascertain, by cutting it open, various inter-
esting facts of science likely to be more or less useful by-and-bye.
Its death will not occur for several hours, and in the interval (if the
truth be told), it will suffer excruciating agony. Nothing can
comfort it, for it knows nothing of the hopes and faith which have
sustained human martyrs on the rack. It will feel only that the
men whom it loved as if they were gods, have turned to become its
tormentors. Utterly helpless, bound, and gagged, and, perhaps,
paralysed with aware, it will lie for hours on its torture-trough till
my mangling work on its ﬂesh, and bones, and nerves, and brain is
fully and slowly accomplished; and then it may be suffered to expire.”

. :- _ .__...‘.. _._~_ ‘ ._ .-.a_,.-..n_.....,.,. .-.__ .___7._.___...._.._;_._.= “ ,

'.

 




"ﬂy—n...» p

 

.'

 

 

5

What does the Arbiter say now ‘2 The lives of the animals in all
the other cases we have supposed were—taken as a whole—a joy
and blessing, and their deaths were not more painful (generally
much less so) than the natural deaths of old age or disease. But-
the vivisected creature’s whole existence has been turned into a mis-
fortune and a curse. The hours of its keen and excessive agony
outweigh immeasurably all its poor little harmless joys of food and
sunshine, and the love of its master and its offspring. It were well
for that creature had it never been born. Does the Supreme Umpire
then view such things and sanction them ? Can we for a moment
suppose him to pass sentence justifying the vivisector ? Nay, my
friends, it seems to me that a heavy, heavy condemnation must fall
on such tyrannous misuse of human power, and that the voice of
every unbiased conscience must pronounce such vivisection a moral
offence in the forum of ethics, and a heinous sin before the judg-
ment-seat of God.

This is one view of the case. In another way we may look at it,
and note that one of two things must hold. Either Bishop Butler’s
axiom is false, and a creature, although sentient, has no right to be
spared pain, and the whole brute creation has absolutely no claims
at all upon man, who may act to them the part of a devil without
offence; or else, at the very least, man is forbidden to inﬂict on any
animal a torture worse than death. That is the very minimum to
which we can reduce their claims, if they have any claims at all.
Taking their lives is the last stretch of human rights ; making their
lives such a curse as that they had better have perished at their
birth, is a step far beyond killing them, and one which stands con-
demned on any principle which we can formulate, except the renun-
ciation of all duty towards them. That vivisectors and their
supporters do practically regard animals as having no rights as
against man, and that they think la loi du plus fort all that is
needed for the justiﬁcation of their cruelties, is unhappily too evi-
dently the real state of the case, albeit not a few of these tormen-
tors are actually members of societies (and in one notorious case, a
Vice-President of a Society) for the prevention of cruelty to animals 1

You will observe that all these arguments concern the question
only of excessively painful Vivisection. It is the inﬂiction of torture

 




 

 

 

 

6

which stands condemned by what we have said. That is the ﬁrst
thing. Now I shall tell you why we think that Vivisection, even
when it does not inﬂict torture or severe pain, ought to be forbidden
by law, and why the whole practice ought to be totally prohibited.

Assuming that we have proved that the inﬂiction of torture is a
moral offence, the corollary follows that, if Vivisection cannot be
sanctioned without opening a door to that offence—if no line can be
drawn between the experiments per se almost harmless and those
involving gross cruelty—if no protection can be given to an animal
once it is laid on the vivisecting table in a laboratory—and no
guarantee can be obtained of a vivisector’s mercy, then the whole
practice ought to be stopped. If it be found impossible to separate
the use of a thing from the abuse, and that abuse amount to a great
moral offence, then it becomes needful to prohibit the use. The
Scottish Society and several English societies stepped before us in
Victoria Street, in demanding, from the outset, the total pro-
hibition of Vivisection; while we only asked for “the utmost
possible protection to animals liable to Vivisection.” But I
think we may all rejoice that the Victoria Street Society tried the
more moderate demand in the ﬁrst place; and that thus, without
fear of being deemed hasty, or hot-headed, or doetrinaire, it has
exhibited the spectacle of a band of men of high political and social
importance, ales hommes se'rieux, in short, driven on by the logic of
facts and the lessons of experience, taught by infructuous legislation
and delusive Returns, to quit their original standing ground, and
raise their demands to the absolute suppression of the practice
which cannot be curbed within the bounds of humanity. The
speeches which have been made at our meetings will show you why
men so little likely to be borne away by impulse, and differing
so widely from each other politically and religiously as the late Lord
Shaftesbury, the Cardinal Archbishop of Westminster, and the Lord
Chief Justice of England, yet have one and all come round to the
same unhesitating conclusion — that Vivisection must be totally
abolished.

The practical fact is, that Vivisection is a Method of research—a
useful method, we must presume, in the opinion of those who employ
it, though a misleading one in our opinion and in that of many
better competent than we to judge the matter. Now a method like

‘l
H




‘l
u

 

7

this cannot be pursued half-and-half; employed to a certain extent
and then dropped or exchanged for another. It must be maintained
as a method, or stopped as a, method; and the labours of physiologists
turned into the other and, as we think, more truly scientiﬁc channels
of clinical and microsc0pic observation. There is no compromise
really possible. The idea of the Royal Commission of the “ recon-
ciliation of the claims of science and humanity ” was wholly
delusive. Science ignores humanity, and will be “reconciled” with
nothing which stops her invasions.

And, after all, is not this just what might have been expected ?
How should it be otherwise ? How should such a monstrous idea
of our relations to the animals as lies at the root of Vivisection
be reconcilable in any way with true feelings of sympathy and
humanity?

Hitherto I have been discussing the question from the barest and
coldest ground of pure ethics. But there are some animals to whom
we men and women stand in relations, which it is impossible to
reduce to a hard moral question, even as it would be to discuss as
.a mere matter of right and wrong the cruel treatment of some dear
little child. If I saw a little blue-eyed, fair-haired baby crowing
in the sunshine, and holding up its little arms for my embrace, and
.a wretch of a nurse were to come and deliberately knock its head
on the stones, I should not, I think, require to appeal to ethical
.arguments to satisfy myself that the nurse was doing wrong ; or to
induce me to rush forward and save the baby, and pitch the nurse
to J ericho—or further. In a similar way we who have made pets
.03? our dogs, or horses, or cats, or even our poor little guinea-pigs
and rabbits and doves, when we think of them as kept for days in
.a vivisector’s cellar, then brought out into the day-light of the
laboratory, trembling and terriﬁed; piteously, perchance, begging
for mercy, but thrown on the torture-trough, tied down, gagged——
only the speaking eye still pleading,—then slowly carved alive, the
nerves dissected out, and all the horrible apparatus of science
brought to bear on the poor little quivering frame, which used to
respond so lovingly to the caress of our hand,—when we think of
this, I say, we do not need to go over all the moral reasons which
prove that such deeds stand condemned by God’s eternal law. We
feel,—well, it is better not to say what I, for one, feel towards the

 




 

 

 

 

 

8

smooth, cool man of science who stands by that torture-trough. IS~

it wrong to feel so ? Nay; but I should be a miserable wretch if

I failed to feel it towards a creature who has loved me, and on,

whom I have bestowed affection.

If Vivisection is to be tolerated at all-if we are to regard.
the Dog (for example) as the two thousand doctors expressed»
in their Memorial to the Home Ofﬁce in 1875, as “a car-
ui'vorous creature, specially valuable for the purposes of Teseareh ”“
(i.e., to be carved alive to satisfy scientiﬁc curiosity),——then
we must, for very shame sake, » and to prevent our children.
from becoming cynical hypocrites, stop at once all talking and.
teaching of sympathy and love to animals. If we are going to give-
up the poor brute to be dissected alive, then, in Heaven’s name, let
us try to think of it as a mere automaton, a senseless bit of'
animated matter, which can have no feeling, no intelligence, not
faithful affection. To admire its intelligence and ﬁdelity, and lead
our children to caress it and to note all its beautiful instincts, and
then to deliver it to the tormentors, that is something baser and more
odious than the perﬁdy of an Eastern tyrant. It is only because of
our utter ignoring of the claims of the brutes which prevents us
from feeling sick with disgust at such cold-blooded hypocrisy. Let.-
us fancy superior beings—angels, or God himself—treating us in
like manner; accepting our humble services, drawing forth our~
adoring love and ﬁdelity, and then coldly consigning us to the
torture chambers whence we shall never escape! Truly when.
we think of these things the awful words seem to sound in
our ears—“With what measure ye mete, it shall be measured to»
you again.”

I have, I hope, said enough of the reasons why we ask for the:
total prohibition of vivisection, on grounds of morality, and of
natural, honest human feeling. As I said at starting, if we prove-
the practice to involve a great moral offence (perhaps I ought to-
say more exactly, is so inextricably connected with a great moral
offence as that it is practically impossible to sanction it and yet
avert the offence), then the exhibition of the fortunate results
which might be expected from the practice, is irrelevant. If we-
have no right to invade a defenceless country which lies at our
mercy, it would be deemed cynically immoral to write leading




 

9

articles and make parliamentary speeches, to show how much
plunder we might obtain by ravishing it.

But our opponents, who are almost to a man Utilitarians, if not
Agnostics, are by no means willing to settle the question on the
grounds of simple deductive morals. For a large beneﬁt to the
human race, they will generally contend that almost anything is
justiﬁable; and certainly such a small thing in their account as the
torture of animals. In short, not a few of them talk grandilo-
quently of their duty to vivisect, in the “ sacred cause of humanity ;”
and bid us stand by and admire their deep sympathy with human
suffering, which makes them sacriﬁce all their own tender senti-
ments of compassion to animals in the hope of bringing some relief
to the sick bed from the laboratory. Thus, then, we are brought
up short out of what, I suppose, they would call the high priori
road of discussion, and challenged to say whether Vivisection, even
if it be a wrong to the brutes, is not such a service to man as
amply to justify its professors in disregarding the lesser obligation.
As this line of appeal reaches many good. and conscientious hearts,
and has been fortiﬁed by Dr. Darwin’s solemn denunciation of Anti-
vivisectors, as persons who would sacriﬁce the great interest of the
human race to mistaken sentiment, I feel bound to confront it
straightforwardly and carefully.

My friends, do not be afraid that you will sacriﬁce the interests
of mankind by stopping the torture of animals. Those interests
never can, and never will, while God reigns on high, be furthered
by cruelty and wrong. We need never fear that we relinquish any
real good for our race by following out the dictates of justice and
mercy. It is an impious doctrine; I say it deliberately, an impious
doctrine, that God has made it any man’s duty to commit the great
sin of cruelty by way of obtaining a beneﬁt for suffering humanity ;
or the duty of the community to sanction such cruelty for its own
beneﬁt. After all, what are the boasted beneﬁts to be obtained
by Vivisection ? I do not deny that a remedy for any of the diseases
of our ﬂeshy tabernacles would be a great beneﬁt; but, I say, that
even for that, the price of hardened hearts, and blunted sympathies,
and intellects trained to the passionless registration of agony,
would be too heavy a price. I do not believe in the cures said to be
effected by help of Vivisection. When we sift any of these stories

 




 

 

10
so often dinned in our ears, we usually ﬁnd, either that the doctors
have only discovered, like Pharaoh’s magicians, how to cause the
disease, but not how to cure it; or if they have really found a
cure or an improved mode of treatment, it has been by methods
which—as Dr. Clay says of his most famous operation, “have no

more to do with Vivisection than the. Pope of Rome.”—(Brit. M' ed.
Journal, July 17, 1880).*

But even if I be mistaken; if Vivisectors have already made or
shall hereafter make discoveries, tending directly and importantly
to relieve our bodily pains; even then, would Vivisection, I ask,
stand justiﬁed? Not so, my friends, assuredly. Bodily health,
relief from pain, prolongation of life, are not the only or the
greatest good to be sought for man. The arguments which these
doctors, and, alas! several Bishops also, adopt, all rest on the
crude, stupid, heathenish assumption that the moral interests of
mankind are not worth considering, and the physical interests are
all in all. The unexpressed major term of the whole argument of
the Bishop of Peterborough, as I heard him in the House of Lords,
was this: “ That a practice which, in the opinion of experts, con-
duces to the bodily health of one or more persons, becomes, £1230
facto, morally lawful and right.” I leave you to reﬂect on the
consequences of the adoption of this principle in the present state
of medical Opinion, and the sort of practices which would be lifted
accordingly from the rank of Vices to Virtues !

Yet, if this major term be unsound, the whole argument of the
lawfulness of Vivisection deduced from its supposed beneﬁcent
results falls entirely to the ground. The Inquisitors of old took
really higher ground when they professed to burn a few heretics in
the immortal interests of mankind, and to save, not merely this life,
but the life hereafter from destruction.

I often think, however, that we are very “ soft” as regards these
Vivisectors, when we listen to their pretensions to zeal for the
beneﬁt of humanity as justifying their disgusting pursuit. These
English aagars, like those of ancient Rome, must smile, when they

 

3“ The operation claimed by the Bishop of Peterborough in the House
of Lords as the great triumph of Vivisection, and of which Dr. Clay was
the originator.

,v.

“"M.

Q.“




 

 

 

 

 

11

ﬁnd one another practising on the gullibility of the public- Foreign
physiologists—like Claude Bernard, to whose statue our home-bred
tormentors have liberally subscribed—d0 not think it worth their
while to make pretensions to such a sublime and Prometheus-like
Enthusiasm of Humanity. Dr. Hoggan tells us they have no such
hypocrisies, and that they laughed at such an idea in the great
laboratory in Paris, where he witnessed such reckless cruelties; and
Dr. Herman, of Zurich, frankly wrote in his famous pamphlet (Die
Vivisectionsfmge), “The advancement of our knowledge and not
practical utility to medicine is the true and straightforward object
of all vivisection ” (p. 16). I do not deny that there may have been
here and there a vivisector who loathed his work (as any man with a
heart in his bosom must loathe it), and yet occasionally performed
painful experiments in the ardour of scientiﬁc research. Such a
man, I believe, was Sir Charles Bell. But few and rare are the
experiments such a man would or did perform; and often, like your
own great Dr. Syme, they would end by repenting all they had done,
and denouncing the practice. But if you tell me that Claude
Bernard baked his seventeen dogs in a stove, and Mantegazza
larded his forty animals with nails, and Schiff tormented his four-
teen thousand dogs, all with compunction and regret, and such pain
to themselves as anyone with natural unperverted feelings would
experience, then, I say, simply, “I don’t believe it.” I considerthe
pretence that they did so as one more of the tolerably numerous,—
shall we say illusions ?——of which a certain “ noble profession ” will

some day be ashamed.

So much for the supposed motive of Vivisectors, which (I have
heard it argued) may nullify the deadly moral consequence of a life
spent in the work of torture. We Anti-Vivisectors are sad sceptics.
It is true that we almost to a man believe in God, and in such a
thing as Duty ; but then, we somehow do not believe quite
implicitly in physiologists! We think a man who will bake, and
burn, and lard with nails, and dissect alive, harmless, and helpless
creatures, is possibly capable of cloaking his hateful proceedings
under a mantle of philanthropy when he is talking to the mere Philis-
tine lay-public. We think that a man who freely chooses for himself
the life-work of a Familiar of this modern Inquisition, a sworn Tor-
mentor of the new Question Chamber ; a man who devotes his few
years under the sun, in God’s bright world, to the task which the

 




 

 

 

12

imagination of Dante has given to the Fiends in the pit of dark-
ness—we think, I say, that that man’s soul suffers under more
deadly disease than the palsies and cancers for which he vainly
pretends to seek the cure. For my own part, I say, and I think
you will all say with me, Let me bear the burdens which God may
lay on me, and die when to Him seems good. But let me go out of
this life of shadows into the eternal world, able to think it would
not be an implied curse I should invoke on my soul were I to desire,
like Theodore Parker, that over my grave should be read the
words, “ Blessed are the merciful for they shall obtain mercy.”

 

 

 

Published by the VICTORIA STREET SOCIETY FOR THE PROTECTION OF ANIMALS
FROM VIVISECTION, UNITED WITH THE INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR
THE TOTAL SUPPRESSION OF VIVISECTION, 1, VICTORIA STREET, WEST-
MINSTER, SW. 2.88

 




