. VIVI SECT ION AND PE RSONAL
RIGHTS.

 

(Reprinted from PERSONAL RIGHTS).

 

‘ ‘ 7E are now fast approaching a crisis in social history, apparently
with closed eyes. The principle of individual rights is in
danger. As mankind decides on this question, so will our
movement be upward or downward, onward towards larger

freedom, or backward towards tyranny and barbarism, plain or

Gilded. —.

b We are nearing the rapids—~the enormous roar is already

audible. Shall we shoot them safely, or is our brave little bark of

Freedom to be utterly wrecked? Safety, it is clear, depends on

ourselves and on our power to steer. It depends, too, on whether

we clearly see our danger.

It behoves us not to allow any practice or any doctrine to pass
unchallenged which tends directly or indirectly towards the perilous
and barbaric doctrine of enforced vicarious sacriﬁce. Whenever we
ﬁnd well—intentioned people ready to acquiesce in cruelty towards an
individual for the good of the rest, we may at once recognize the
symptoms of a most insidious and perilous social disease; and the
symptom is equally ominous whether or not the individual whom it
is proposed to maltreat be good or bad, worthy or unworthy, sage or
fool. It is the denial of his right as an individual that constitutes
the danger-signal. As soon as we begin to justify our aggression on
the ground of‘ our victim’s inferiority, we have obviously ceased to
respect his rights as such. What has worth or worthlessness to do
with the matter ‘2 Either he has rights or he has not rights. If he
has, why infringe them? If he has not, why single him out far
ill-usage .9 Why not treat all and sundry in the same way, consider-
ing only the welfare of “others,” never that of the individual? I
need scarcely, in this paper, dwell upon the evils to which such a
doctrine must directly lead. They are evils which threaten ﬁrst the
safety, progress and welfare of society, and then its very existence.

I desire to dwell strongly on this point : that if the wrong done
to an individual be a wrong (that is, if he can suffer from What is
done), then his rank in the scale of existence has nothing whatever
to do with his right to immunity from such wrong. We owe him
such immunity, if at all, irrespective of his qualities. His claim
rests on his sentiency, simply and solely. If a man had locked up
in his heart the secret of eternal happiness, we should have no right
to’ cut open his heart, against his Will, and seize upon the secret.
And as a matter of fact, if we did so, we should never learn that
:secret ; for there is a law in the universe which makes it impossible

 




 

2

to gain anything for mankind, in the long run, by cruel and,
tyrannical means. We cannot cut the secret of happiness out
of living, agonized hearts. We only doom ourselves to misery by
the attempt.

Every practice or doctrine which tends to make people lose
reverence for individual rights (no matter how humble may be the-
proposed scape-goat) is a direct menace to our liberties. Let us-
examine into the nature of personal rights a little more deeply. The
mere fact of the existence of such rights implies the idea of moral.
responsibility in ourselves. It is an acknowledgment that we must.
not take all we can get and abuse our power over the weak, in our
feverish self-seeking. If it were not for this idea of responsibility,
the word “ rights” would mean nothing to us, as it means nothing,
or almost nothing, to entirely savage tribes. We may measure the
social development and soundness of a people by their reverence for
such rights. We may measure their progress and civilization by the
distance to which these rights extend, by the number and inﬂuence
of the emancipated, by the defencelessness of the beings in whom
the peOple acknowledge such rights and who are included in the
circle of legal and civic protection, so that aggression against them
is regarded as a wrong to be resisted by the community. The more
genuinely civilized the nation, the more fully will the rights of the
weak be acknowledged, and the more will the mere fact of weakness
tend to add to their sacredness.

Now on what quality or attribute in the individual do personal
rights rest? On his intellectual development? Scarcely, for we
must respect the rights of fools. On his moral development ? No ;
for we cannot refuse rights to a man because he has a nasty
temper, or tells lies, or drinks. We must resist his aggressions, but
we cannot deny him his rights. On what, then, do we found them ?
Surely on the capacity for pain and pleasure, or in other words, on
the range of possible experience.

In so far as a being can be hurt by a wrong, that being has
rights. For observe; inanimate things have no rights, because we
cannot make them suffer. Does a stick or a stone feel pain when
we cut and break it? But animals? Do they feel pain when we
burn and bake and mangle and dissect them alive in the supposed
interests of humanity? Assuredly they feel pain; they suffer
atrociously, and that capacity to suffer gives them a clear right to
be exempted from such suffering. To the extent of their range of
emperience, animals have rights, and these are founded on exactly
the same principle as that on which man’s rights are founded. If
there is a diﬁerence, it is in favour of. the animals, because of their
greater helplessness. And man, too, has rights to the extent of his
range of consciousness ; and here we ﬁnd the clue to the difference-
in moral character between the act of killing an animal and the act
of killinga man. The man has a larger range of consciousness than
the animal possesses : hopes, aspirations, an intellectual life, spiritual
possibilities which would be cut short and denied him by death; a
thousand developments and experiences that the animal does not share.




3

Therefore in this direction, man has capacities for suffering peculiar
to himself: his range of experience is larger, and to that extent he
has particular rights. But not one hair’s breadth do his rights go
beyond those of other animals, except where his capacity for pain
goes beyond theirs. To feel physical pain is to have a right to
exemption from its inﬂiction by our fellows for their own ends. And
the same is to be said of spiritual pain and deprivation and injury.
(I am not here attempting to decide whether or not it is justiﬁable to
kill animals ; I am only trying to point out the foundations of their
rights, and to show that, at any rate, this question of killing animals
does not stand or fall with that of torturing them.)

If we accept this view of the nature of rights (or indeed if we
acknowledge rights on any general principle at all) what are we to-
think of the practice of vivisection and its tendencies? I cannot, of
course, go here into the question of the facts. That there are
unspeakable tortures inﬂicted on animals in vivisection, I defy
anyone who has studied the works of the vivisectors themselves to
deny. I would also point out, in passing, that it is a complete
mistake to imagine that anaesthetics are generally given, or that
they are given in such a way as to protect the creature against
pa1n.* /

Now is vivisection a practice that ought to be allowed to grow
and spread among us as it is doing at present? How is it possible
to deny that it is a glaring infringement of the principle of individual
rights, and that it must inevitably weaken public respect for such
rights ? What observant thinker can fail to be struck by the present
increasing tendency to ill-treat the individual for the good of the.
rest? I have heard highly—principled people arguing that it is quite
justiﬁable to make experiments on hospital patients, since one
wretched life does not count in the scale against the possible good of

 

* Dr. Hoggan in the Spectator, May 29th, 1875, says of chloroform that the
advantages derived from it by man “have remained a dead-letter as regards the
lower animals in consequence of the very unsatisfactory state of our knowledge-
of the line which separates insensibility from death. . . . . Many . . . .
die apparently before they can become insensible through chloroform, some of
them, indeed, as soon as it has been administered. The practical consequence of
this uncertainty is, that complete and conscientious anaesthesia is seldom even
' attempted, the animal getting at most a slight whiff of chloroform, by way of
satisfying the conscience of the operator, or of enabling him. to make statements.
of a humane character. . . . . But we have also to bear in mind that even
when complete insensibility has been produced at the beginning of an operation,
this effect only endures at most for a minute or two, and during the rest of the-
operation, extending perhaps to hours, the animal must bear its torture as best-
it may. Continued insensibility could only be maintained by continued careful
administration by a special assistant. . . . . This, I believe, is seldom, if
ever, done; and even if it were so, we should be leaving entirely out of sight
that numerous class of operations in which anaesthetics cannot be used, as they
would interfere with the correctness of theﬁresults, and where, if used, they would
render the experiment worse than useless.” Dr. Hoggan adds that he regards»
anaesthetics as “the greatest curse of vivisectible animals,” and elsewhere states
that it is “the public not the animals that are really aneesthetized.” Anyone
wishing to study the works of vivisectors can do so easily by going to the
British Museum, where many of (though strange to say by no means all) their
published writings are to be obtained.

 




4

thousands ! \Vhen the “pillars of society” begin to take this View,
we may be sure that the sentiment has worked deep and far. We
have only to open our eyes to see the results of such a sentiment.
In America, the invasion of personal rights is carried on with
extraordinary ruthlessness, and no wonder ; for it is the custom there
to demonstrate physiological facts by dissecting animals alive before
classes of young students, so that the idea of Vicarious sacriﬁce
becomes familiar ; the notion that we may torture a weaker creature
for our own ends grows into the very ﬁbre and substance of the
mind. When we ﬁnd that last year (I think) it was proposed in
one of the American magazines to introduce a Bill for ViVisecting
criminals, we need not be in the least surprised. It is clear that
we can never ﬁnd out all we desire to know about man by
ViVisecting animals. The physiologist longs to test his conclusions
on man, and assuredly he will so test them if vivisection is
permitted at all.

Every year the ofﬁcial reports show a large increase of
vivisectional experiments, especially in the peculiarly painful
experiments. It is becoming a mania with physiologists. One man
vivisects a vast number of dogs, and another uses the same number
to prove him.mistaken. Then the ﬁrst recommences, in order to
prove himself right, and so on, all over Europe, the experiments
being repeated again and again in different laboratories—our
English physiologists imitating the experiments of their Continental
colleagues with much diligence and enthusiasm. (See Baron
Weber’s Tort/are Chamber of Science, the Journal of Physiology,
&c., &c.

I afn convinced that it is largely this atrocious practice that
we have to thank for the weakening of reverence for personal rights
which is spreading like a dangerous disease among us at the present
day. It is high time that all who feel strongly on the subject should
join in opposing this pseudo-scientiﬁc idea, the more actively and
practically, the better for us all.

While vivisection is permitted in this country by our law, a
perpetual stream of sentiment will be going forth and extending on
all sides, directly adverse to the sentiment of reverence for the
rights of the weak, and for all rights—a sentiment which really alone
stands between us and the chaos of barbarism. Much can be done
by making vivsection a test question at elections of all kinds, and by
making the facts known to the working classes, who can so greatly
inﬂuence elections. But vigorous steps in every possible direction
are imperatively necessary, and should be taken without delay. A
doctrine which teaches us, by precept and example, to trample upon
the rights of the weakest of all living beings, and to seek good
ends through atrocious means, is a doctrine that dangerously
threatens the welfare of that very humanity for Whose sake, we are
assured, the tyrannical deeds are done.

MONA CAIRD.

 

llﬁllcr, Son, (15‘ Campy, Limited, Printers, Pillsbury Circus Buildings, E.C.

 




