Animals’ Welfare Week Supplement, pp. 213-216. Enlarge issue.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ﬁme 1936

Photo by]

THE

T/Je N am '— Qua/15.

Price 3d.

[fumes Hampson, Edgware

THE NATIONAL COUNCIL FOR ANIMALS’ WELFARE
BUILDINGS, HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, we]

1 FEATHERSTONE

ubscrzptz'on for 0716 Y car, 1903? free, 3/6

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




THE ANIMALS" FRIEND

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND is pablislaed nionz‘lyly 12y flee National Council for Animals’ Welfare a!

 

I Featbersz‘one Bid/dingy, High Holborn, London, W. C .I, and all communication: regarding flie

Editor: ROBERT H. SPURRIER.

 

 

 

*1
magazine should be addresyed 2‘0 flee Ediler JJ

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Vol. XLII JUNE, 1936 . No. 6
C O N T E N T S .
Page ' Page
NATIONAL PARKS AND SANCTUARIES IN PARLIAMENT AND THE GIN TRAP. Capt.
CANADA—II. M. B. lVil/ianii~ . . 195 C- V7. HM?“ - - 208
MONKEYS IN SOUTH AFRICA. ‘ . I . 196 ' THE LIBRARY TABLE . .. . '. 210
THE PASSING 'OF WILD LIFE- 133”] DRAWING FOR NATURE STUDENTS. Neane
Ardran . . . . . . I 97 Parker . . . . . . 2 I 2
ZOOLOGY. VERSE- ]- L- Cal/yer - - I97 , ANIMAL WELFARE WEEK: REPORTS AND
FROM ONLOOKER’S NOTE BOOK. Onleméer 198 ESSAYS - - - - . - 213
DOGS AND SHEEP. E. M. Been)! . . gazil-I99 SCOTTISH SOCIETY FOR PREVENTION OF
THE RACCOON. Harper C0791, F.C.G.S. 2.00 VIVISECTION - . . - - 7-17 l
COUNTRY CONTENTMENT. Hadron Read . VizoI HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY . . 218 ‘
OUR CONTRIBUTORS: EDMUND GABRIEL ' LEAGUE FOR pROHIBITION OF CRUEL
BARLOW. W. P. T. . . . . 202 SPORTS . . . . . . 219
'ERNST TOLLERQ E G- Barlow - - 205 PIT PONIES PROTECTION SOCIETY . . 220
MEMBRA DISJECTOR. Baxil Haring/Jame: 205 NATIONAL SOCIETY FOR ABOLITION OF
MOVET. Edgar Syers . . . . 206 CRUEL SPORTS . - - - - 27-2
ST. BERNARD. Marion Reid . . . 207 CORRESPONDENCE . . . . 224
“ THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND ” SUSTENTATION AND FREE LIBRARY FUND.
The Editor acknowledges with many thanks the following amounts received up to May 22nd :— %

 

Miss H. F. Cooper, 175. 6d.

Lady Muriel Willoughby, 78.

Miss M. J. Smith, 63. 6d.

W. Watson Robertson, Esq., gs. 6d.

Mrs. Sidney Smith, 53.

Miss C. Machin, 23. 6d.

Mrs. Flaks, 25.

Miss E. Atkin, Miss Faulkner,'MrS. Frank Hutchen, Miss L. Jones, Mrs. Laycock, IS. 6d. each.
Miss J. Barker, Is.

 

The following additional Public Libraries are being supplied by subscriptions :— I
Pan/it Librariey. Snbreriber.
Public Library, Duke’s Avenue, Chiswick, W.4 _ Miss F. G. Smith, Hedge End, Courtlands Ave.,
Hampton, Middlesex.
Public Library, F ratton Roathortsmouth. Mrs. Sadler, I, Cow Lane, Bath.
Free Library,'St. Ives, Cornwall. do.
Public Reading Room, Market Place, Warrington. ' do.

 

I90 '

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

fume 1936

Notes and Comments
The Nanny-quads.

Great prominence is given in the Press to the human
quadruplets, to the elaborate measures taken to protect
them from the infection
of disease, and to their
general progress and well-
being. We have pleasure
in presenting to our readers
in our cover illustration
Nanny, a goat at Carpenders
Park Farm, near Bushey,
Herts., with her quads to
which she gave birth some
weeks ago. Two of the
quads are billys and two
nannys and mother and
children are reported to be
doing well by following
Nature’s hygiene and the
simple life.

The photo is by James
Hampson, to whom the
cover illustration of our April issue should have been
ascribed, and not to P. Phillips.

 

A Dog Story.

A remarkable dog story is told by the [Vexz‘em
Aform'ug .Newr, and its authenticity is vouched for by
the farmer and his family.

A Sheepdog belonging to the farm disappeared, and
for a week nothing was seen of it. At the same time
it was noticed that a mongrel dog which was kept with
the Sheepdog on the farm was missing regularly after
he was fed. ,

Watch was kept and the secret of the dog’s journey-
ings was discovered. He had been taking a portion
of his food regularly to the Sheepdog, which had its
leg caught in a rabbit trap several fields away from the
farm. The Sheepdog, except that he limps a little, is
not much the worse for his adventure, but he owes his
life to the thought of his mongrel companion.

Greece.

Mr. W. Miller writes: “ Friends of animals will
rejoice that the Mayor of Athens has appointed a
Commission to consider the organisation of the new
slaughter—houses, which are being erected between
Athens and the Piraeus, including the best methods of
killing the animals humanely. Some time ago the
Scottish S.P.C.A. and an English lady, who had
visited Athens, presented two humane killers to the
old slaughter—houses, but they were never used,
probably because their employment would have
thrown a certain number of men, accustomed to, other
and less humane methods, out of work. The
Scottish S.P.C.A. has now written to the Mayor
congratulating him on his initiative, and earnestly
trusting that the animals designed for slaughter in the
new buildings will have the necessary rest and care,
followed by stunning with a humane killer, such as it
presented in 1933.”

Dr. A. Estcourt-Oswald.

We are happy to be able to report that a good
worker in the movement, Dr. Agnes Estcourt-Oswald,
the Hon. Secretary of the National Council for Animals’
Welfare in the Colchester district, has recently been

191

W»: m n ‘w' ‘— w ., ,—.- .. .,., .. .4). .___ ..-.... —. .. .. v _‘;_:':.;:, 4‘” --

THE ANIMALS” FRIEND

re-‘elected as a result of a ballot throughout the member-
Shlp of the society, a member of the Council of the
R.S.P.C.A., upon which she has served since 1929.
Commenting on her re-election, the Essex Couug‘y
Telegraph of 16th May remarks :—

Dr. E‘stcourt—Oswald . has for several
years been actively and fearlessly associated with
the good work of the R.S.P.C.A., and that her
services are widely appreciated was shown that
she had a high place in the voting.

The number of votes cast for Dr. Estcourt—Oswald
was 950, which gave her the fourth place in the ballot.

“ Animals’ Welfare.”

No. 4, May, 1936, of ANIMALs’ WELFARE, edited
by Harper Cory, F.C.G.S., and devoted to Humane
Education and Animal Welfare, has recently been
issued from the Moose Press. Among other features
it contains short articles on “ How to Feed Your
Dog,” “ Hunting with a Camera,” “ Observing Wild
Life ” and “ Drawing for Nature Students.” We
commend this magazine to our readers and wish to
emphasise the paragraph printed on the back page of
the May issue :—

Two monthly magazines, supplementary and
complementary to each other, teach 222/19! and bow
to know animals—THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND, packed
with interesting animal material for adults, costs
only 3s. 6d. per annum; ANIMALS’ WELFARE con-
tains teaching material on the care of pets, on
wild creatures and how to meet and study them,
it costs but IS. 6d. a year post paid.

These two magazines are also “ complimentary ”
to each other and both can be obtained from The
National Council for Animals’ Welfare. Readers of
THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND will wish Harper Cory a very
happy and refreshing visit to Canada, where he has
gone for a few short weeks. This explains the non—
appearance of a Nature Study Groups Supplement in our
present issue.

The Abolition of Cruel Sports.

. Another interesting report is that of the National
Society for the Abolition of Cruel Sports. The
SoCiety’s task is primarily to focus public attention on
cruel spOrts, and there is no doubt that it has succeeded
in arousing much dichssion ‘in various quarters to
which the subject had not hitherto penetrated. In
spite of the fact that hunting;seems,,as popular tO—day
as it was twenty-five years ago, the outlook is reported

to be good. The report declares that'i -
There are many signs that the. traditional status
of fox—hunting is steadily declining. .The, growing
public opinion against blood-sports—by no means
only visible in urban communities as is so often
asserted—is being steadily consolidated with a
view to future Parliamentary Bills to prohibit
hunting. '

Up to date chr 120,000 of the Junior Leaﬂet Series
have been circulated, mainly through schools—60,000
of them, be it noted, during the year under review.
Readers of THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND should send for a
copy of this report to the Secretary, 4, Tavistock
Square, W.IC.1, and read for themselves this record of
a year’s effective work, well conceived and directed
by its able Hon. Secretary, Mr. Bertram Lloyd. We
warmly commend the work of this. Society to our

readers. .
R. H. S.’ '

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

THE AN IMALS’ FRIEND

flute 1936

Modern Research
By THE EDITOR.

IT is an amazing thing that any intelligent
person should believe that the prevention

and cure of disease and the alleviation of
human aches and pains are to be found by
means of the practice of experimentation on
living animals. Disease and suffering, it will
be generally admitted we believe, are caused in
the main by our individual and collective
violations of the laws of health, by ignorant,
careless or considered disregard of these laws,
and to imagine that the remedy is to be found
in the deliberate creation of disease in the
animal body, where it did not exist before,
and by the inﬂiction of pain and suffering and
mutilation on millions of sentient creatures in
the hope of finding a way of escape for our~
selves, is surely the vainest delusion of a
cowardly and unrighteous age.

In this matter our individual intelligence and
sense of decency should surely be sufficient
to direct us to a sane and righteous conclusion
as to the true value of what is known as
scientific rerearc/y, but alas, the majority of us
have surrendered our right of private judgment
to physiologists and doctors and refuse to
exercise our intelligence, conscience or imagin—
ation in connection with the subject.

We wish that all who seek this way of escape
from the problem would read Dr. Beddow
Bayly’s book just issued from the press
(Cancer—The Failure of Modern Rerearc/y. A
survey by M. Beddow Bayly, M.R.C.S.,
L.R.C.P. 25. 6d. post free. Health Education
and Research Council, 15, St. James’s Place,
S.W.I). It was in 1912 that Dr. George
Wilson, one of the members of the Royal
Commission on Vivisection, confessed in his
reservation memorandum to the report of that
Commission, that he was convinced with regard
to the practice of vivisection

that the fallacies and failures are far more con-
spicuous than the successful results;

and that
similar methods of investigation if pursued in the
future will be attended with similar results:
Failures plentiful enough still, but successful results
fewer and fewer.

In Dr. Bayly’s book we find authoritative
evidence that this prediction has been fulﬁlled,
so far as cancer research is concerned. He
declares in his introduction that if proof were
demanded of - the claim that the laboratory
has failed to shed any light on the real pro-

blems of human disease, the case of cancer
research would provide a conclusive instance.
Further, he maintains, that both in scientific
and lay circles, a great number are beginning
to realise that

the utter futility of the method of research which

alone is deemed scientiﬁc in medicine at the present

day, namely, animal experimentation.

One of the several special sections of the
book is devoted to quotations from the
greatest authorities on the subject of cancer
as to the failure of animal experimentation.
With one of these we conclude this pre-
liminary notice of a weighty and well—docu—
mented contribution to the subject, which we
hope will be widely read. The quotation is
from a leading article in the Medical Timer of
March, 1954 :—

Will any unbiassed medical man say that
we are one step further forward in solving
the cancer problem? Thousands of pounds
have been spent on animal experiments in
this department of research, but with no
practical result . . . and meanwhile
deaths from cancer continue to increase. It
is futile to go on with expensive research
conducted on such. lines. It only means a
waste of time, money and energy for all
concerned. We must look in other direc-
tions for the solution of this great problem.
The cancer mystery will certainly never be
unravelled in the laboratory.

Animal Flag Day, 1936.

The help of every reader of THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND,
and of every friend of animals, in the greater London
area is needed on July 3rd if this day is to be successful.

It is the only Flag Day Collection for Animals in the
Metropolitan area this year. The permit issued by
Scotland Yard to the Committee covers the whole of
this area, and a vast army of sellers is needed to come
to the aid of the animals on this day.

The work of each co—operating society will suffer if
the amount collected on this one day does not at least
equal the sum total of the six or seven separate Flag
Day Collections by individual societies in previous years.

Will you volunteer for the army of Animal Helpers
for Friday, July 3rd? If so, please send your name and
address to one of the following :—

The Chief Organising Secretary, Animal Flag Day,
14, Clifford Street, W.I;
The Organising Secretary, Animal Flag Day, I,
Featherstone Buildings, High Holborn, W.C.I ;
The Organising Secretary, Animal Flag Day, 105,
Jermyn Street, S.W.I.
R. H. S.

192

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

[one 1936

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

National Parks and Sanctuaries in Canada

By M. B. WILLIAMS.

(Tbis absorbing story of the Canadian National Parks bas been specially written for THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND
by one wbo was in at tbe founding of tbe National Parks Department of tbe Canadian Government, and wbo for a
quarter of a century Isas been working towards tbe realisation of its aims in tbe interest of man and beast alike, wit/9
a vision , entbasz'asnz and ability tbat bane been of inealealable value. It sboald do int/ob to kindle interest in and
entbnsiasrn for tbe establisbrnent of National Parks and Sanctuaries in England ’s green and pleasant land.)

PART II.

NOTHER kind of sanctuary is the fenced

enclosure for the protection of nearly ex—

tinct species. The ﬁrst of these—Elk
Island—was established in very early days for
the protection of Elk. Later it served to receive
the wild buffalo herd purchased by the Canadian
government in Montana in order that future
Canadians might be able to see this magniﬁcent
species, once the noblest and most character-
istic animal of the Plains, which had played an

essential part in the opening up of the country.

The restoration of this species at the very verge
of extinction, the capture and transportation
of more than 700 savage animals, some of them
weighing 2,000 pounds each, hundreds of
miles to one of their ancient stamping grounds
on the Canadian Prairies, forms one of the
most thrilling chapters in wild life conser—
vation, but it is too well known to need to be
re-told here. But it is delightful to know that
in twenty—ﬁve years the herd of 716 has
increased to more than thirty times its original
numbers and that the Government has been
able to send thousands to re-stock areas in the
far north where buffalo can still live in a wild
state, and also to supply herds for other
National Parks.

 

Pronghorn Antelope

193

The preservation of the Prong-horned
antelope was another experiment which, after
repeated failures, was ﬁnally crowned with
complete success. This interesting animal,
intelligent, sensitive and swifter of foot than
the greyhound, once roamed the Prairies in
countless numbers. To—day, only a few
hundreds are left in a wild state. Nature,
who gave it its swiftness of foot as a protection,
gave it another characteristic which has been
partly responsible for its undoing. It is that
very human quality, which Matthew Arnold
lauded as the root of the scientiﬁc passion,
namely curiosity. An antelope cannot rest
until it ﬁnds out the meaning of any strange
new object in its environment. Old—time
hunters were well aware of this peculiarity
and when they wanted to take an antelope
all they needed to do was to stick a red ﬂag
or some bright, shining object up on a hill—top
and the antelope for miles around would come
stealing in to the spot, trying to ﬁnd out what
the strange thing meant. Their slaughter
then became painfully easy. For several
years, when their numbers had been reduced
to 1,200, the Canadian government attempted
to develop a herd within a sanctuary. But
the same methods which had proved such a
success with the buffalo were now a failure.
Year after year, small herds, captured and
placed in the great Buffalo Park, most dis—
couragingly died. At last it was decided that
antelope must require a special habitat and
the expedient was determined upon of letting
them choose their own.

One morning a telegram was received at .
Ottawa saying that a herd of antelope had
wandered into a certain region in Southern
Alberta. The wires were immediately set
in action and inside of 48 hours carpenters
were at work, as unostentiously as possible,
building a fence about the unsuspecting herd.
By great good fortune, this was ﬁnally accom—
plished without frightening off the antelope
and about 50 were enclosed. Here, in
apparently great health and contentment, they

 

 

 

 




 

 

THE VANIMALS’ FRIEND

have continued to live, and their numbers
to—day total over 500 head.

The Bird Sanctuary is not a National Park,
but the protection of wild animals led naturally
to the protection of wild birds, and when, in
1916, the Migratory Birds Treaty was con-
cluded between the United States and Canada,
the enforcement of the Act was placed in the
hands of the National Parks Branch, which
to-day administers over 60 bird sanctuaries and
carries on many activities for the protection of
bird life. Canada has a unique responsibility
in this respect because the breeding grounds
of many species lie within her borders.
Though waterfowl and songbirds ﬂy south in
the autumn to winter in warmer climes, they
breed only in Canada and the protection of
their breeding grounds becomes each year
more important. As settlement has advanced
lakes and swamps, once isolated and secure
from molestation, have ceased to be safe.
The draining of swamps fOr agricultural
purposes, the lowering of lake levels, as well
as the building of roads and the coming of the
motor car have destroyed many former homes
of birds and increased the number and power
of their enemies so that sanctuaries have
become a necessity if wild bird life is to be
preserved. Fortunately, wild birds, like wild
animals, respond very quickly to protection,
emphasizing the fact that when a wild species
disappears it is almost always due to the
thoughtlessness or predatoriness of man.

One thing which grows increasingly clear
is that the disappearance of a single species of
plant or animal life, may not only be a loss to
mankind by depriving him of a source of
beauty and interest and one more example of
life’s inﬁnite, creative power, but that it may
effect unsuspected changes in the environment
through its inter—relation with other forms of
life. For instance, a water—plant with the
unpoetic name of Eel-grass, which has been
reported to be disappearing, has lately been
receiving the attention of the National Parks
staff, not because it has any special beauty of
its own, but because it forms an important
part of the natural food of wild geese and
certain other waterfowl. In order to preserve
these species it has become necessary to protect
Eel—grass, and this is now being done. The
recent discovery of the inter—relation between
the life—cycles of trees and insectivorous birds
provides a new measuring rod for the passage
of time and opens up a new path for scientiﬁc
exploration. Science, indeed, supplies us

 

ﬁme 1936

continually with fresh proofs of this strange
inter—dependence between all parts of nature.
They indicate, more and more clearly, the
truth of the theory that Life is a whole. It
may be that you cannot touch it anywhere
without the reverberations spreading to its
outermost circle. The poets knew this long
ago and—who can say P—perhaps, William
Blake’s extravagant assertion:

A robin redbreast in a cage

Puts all Heaven in a rage,
may one day come to be accepted as a serious
“ scientific fact.”

To—day, Canada possesses 18 National Parks,
with a total area of over 12,000 square miles.
Seven of these are large scenic parks, four are
fenced enclosures for the preservation of
nearly extinct species, two are Historic Parks,
and two are small areas set apart for public use
in such well—known scenic regions as the
Thousand Islands of the St. Lawrence River,
and the Thirty Thousand Islands of Georgian
Bay. In both these regions the Government
purchased a number of islands so that the
public may always have free access to them.
They are visited every summer by thousands
of picnickers and bathers and supply happy
camping grounds for Boy Scouts, Girl Guides,
and many other camping parties.

The scenic parks of the Rockies and the two
great lake and woodland reserves on the
prairies in one of which Grey Owl makes his
home, form a truly noble possession. On
the eastern slope of the Rockies alone they
cover an area stretching in a continuous line
zoo miles from north to south and from 30 to
70 from east to west. Four of the parks
in the Central Rockies are so situated that
their boundaries co-incide throughout part
of their distances. The northern boundary of
Banff Park adjoins the southern boundary of
Jasper Park for approximatelyascore of miles,
constituting, in reality, one reserve, though
they are under separate local administrations.
Similarly, the western boundary of Banff
Park adjoins, at the Great Divide, the eastern
boundaries of Yoho and Kootenay Parks,
and these four parks, together, form an area
of 8,000 miles of protected beauty, through
which both man and the wild animal may
wander without being reminded of the
outside competitive and destructive world.

In all these great parks the wild life has
become one of the chief attractions. Many
so-called sportsmen have come to see that it
is much better fun hunting wild animals with

1.94

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

ﬁme 1936

a camera than with a gun;
parents bring their children
there to see wild animals
living natural lives instead
of the strange lives in Zoos ;
classes in biology come
from the universities, ﬁnd—
ing that living subjects are
much better than lifeless
and stuffed exhibits in
museums ; while the simple
nature lover has found a
new joy in the landscape,
the joy of living things. In
these great sanctuaries men
are to-day recovering with
a strange thrill their ancient
companionship with Nature
and ﬁnding room again for
that old sense of wonder at
the mystery and miracle of
her ways for which our
mechanical and material civilisation has often
little room.

Photo by]

Australian Forests Suffer

from Loss of Animals

P till the beginning of the present cen-
Utury the forests of the Eastern States
of Australia literally teemed with possums
and koalas or native bears—these rare and
delightful marsupials which are known fav—
ourably throughout the world. The creatures
were so plentiful that it was impossible to
walk a mile anywhere in the bush without
seeing dozens of the wonderful little animals
on the ground and in the trees. But then,
unfortunately, someone discovered that the
skins of these harmless little creatures made
warm rugs and overcoats, and a ruthless
slaughter followed. The possums and bears
were pursued relentlessly; countless millions
were slaughtered, and it was not until a few
years ago that the Government, in response to
numerous public protests, prohibited further
killing. But the marsupials had been well—
nigh exterminated, and to—day are only rarely
seen in the remotest parts of the bush, and in
sanctuaries.
There were many persons who believed that
the “ balance of Nature ” could not be upset

195

THE AN IMALS’ ' FRIEND

 

[Canadian National Railways

Bear; in fayper National Park, Alberla.

in such a manner without serious repercussions,
and they have proved correct.

Since the slaughter of the marsupials a plant
pest, which was formerly kept in check by the
animals, has been increasing by leaps and
bounds. This pest is mistletoe, which has
now obtained such a hold that it is menacing
the valuable forests of Eastern Australia.
Mistletoe slowly strangles tree life; at ﬁrst
it merely decreases the wood increment of the
tree, but if allowed to prosper it invariably
kills its own host. Authorities agree that if
the pest is allowed to continue unchecked it
will mean an annual loss of millions of dollars
to the Australian timber industry.

In View of this, forestry experts have been
frantically trying various artiﬁcial methods of
controlling the pest, but no satisfactory
results have been obtained.

The pest is deﬁnitely attributed to the
slaughter of the possums and bears. We are
now paying the penalty for years of indis-
criminate slaughter of these bush friends—the
possum and the native bear.

It is now realized that the only satisfactory
results in controlling the pest will be secured
by adjusting the “ balance of Nature.” Experi-
ments with bears and possums in sanctuaries
have proved that the animals eat the mistletoe
with relish, and numbers of these marsupials
are to be released in the forest to combat
the pest.

(From Our Dumb Anima/r.)

32

__t.a....~_. ....A.~. . . .. “Nita—r -A- r , 4 .7 u 7‘ .. , _. , __ _-. :__r_,r.;:z:.‘, _.. .. ,___,~__

 

 

 

 




 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

 

fzme I936

‘ Monkeys in South Africa

OST people seem to

be interested in mon-

keys whenever they

have the chance. If you go

to any zoo you will always

ﬁnd crowds round the
monkey cages. Sometimes

you see them huddled up

in corners, looking very

\ miserable, and at other

4? places where they are better

F

L
Pg]

 

\V/

cared for you will see them

/“ racing about after each

\ /g other and running to the

\ ’\ bars to snatch a visitor’s

“‘3 offering of fruit, and some—

times they take French leave

and carry off a pair of

spectacles or a glove. They are full of mis-
chief and life.

But in England we rarely see monkeys
living their own lives, which would be much
more interesting, and I have just been reading
an article about monkeys at Durban, which a
lady who lives in South Africa has sent me.
I,Would like you to know how very different
these little fellows must ﬁnd life compared
with that of some of their brothers who are
«caught and caged and shipped and condemned
:for the rest of their lives to be captives in a
foreign land.

Before Man went exploring in Durban it was
:the country of the wild animals, and when the
ﬁrst Europeans arrived, they found valleys
and forests and hills full of elephants, lions,
antelopes and monkeys. '

Gradually all these animals were killed
or driven into the bush away from the big
city we now call Durban. But the “ blue ”
monkey has been allowed to remain so far,
though gradually more trees are cleared away
and these monkeys are being driven further
back.

I am very glad to tell you, however, that
the Corporation of Durban will not permit
anyone to interfere with or hurt these animals
in any way.

These monkeys are equally interested in
our ways. They love to invade the houses
and delight in looking—glasses and hand-
mirrors, in investigating ladies’ powder puffs
and other human belongings. Very inquisi—
tive and, of course, intelligent, are monkeys.

'\ p

ﬂ...“
V4;

They ﬁnd their own food in the fruits of the
place and their beds in the forest branches.
And when there is a plague of locusts—as
lately happened—these monkeys do good
service by devouring the harmful insects.
They also ﬁnd occasional feasts from “ ﬂying
ants,” another unwelcome visitor to men and
women.

About the baby monkeys we read this:

“If the adult monkeys are interesting to
watch, their babies are doubly so. When they
are ﬁrst born, they are practically helpless,
and cling with feet and hands like grim death
to the fur of their mothers. A proud mother
will pass her offspring round to the other
dames, who subject it to a close scrutiny.
When they have satisﬁed their curiosity the
baby is passed back to the mother and the
party breaks up.

“ Like our own children, the young of
monkeys have to go through a period of
schooling. When he is a few weeks old,
mother decides that it is high time that Jack
should be learning to walk. She frees herself
from his embrace and, holding his hand gently
in her own, she slowly leads him along,
looking closely the while to see that he is
putting his best foot foremost. The poor
little chap cuts a pitiful ﬁgure as he sways and
lurches along, but mother thinks he is too cute
for words, and she catches him up into her
arms again and he parks himself in his old
position. If Jack should fall from the branch
of a tree there is always some aunt or cousin to
rush forward, pick him up, dust him down,
and hand him back to mother.”

——--Cape Times Supplement.

A plea for hunters to spare the birds of the vineyards
was made at the opening of the game season by Bord—
eaux wine growers at Paris, France. They fear that a
war on birds might relieve vine insects of their chief
enemies and that the insects might thus be free to deci-
mate the clusters of grapes that soon will be Bordeaux
w1ne.

A sparrow has to eat 4oo insects daily, or it feels
undernourished, the Vintners point out. Such birds
as the nightingale and warbler consume each a half
million larvae or insects during the vine-growing
season. Without birds, the peasants say, there would
soon be no more Bordeaux clarets and sauternes.

(Animal Life, May, 1936-)

196

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

fune 1936

The Passmg of Wild Llfe
By BETTY ARDRON.
IT is said that the close of the age of Mammals

is upon us, and that wild life is being

destroyed by every conceivable device at a
far greater rate than it can possibly be repro~
duced. Wild life is gradually being wiped out
of existence and will cease unless drastic
measures are taken to prevent such a disaster.

Few people realise how many animals are
constantly being killed or maimed by traps,
so—called sportsmen, poison, guns, cars, aero-
planes, wireless, trade and by many other
means.

Thousands of our beautiful sea-birds are
being destroyed by the effects of fuel oil from
ships—the oil covers large areas of water and
when the birds settle it gums their feathers,
leaving them unable to ﬂy or obtain food which
means that they die a slow and horrible death!

Fuel oil is also fatal to young fish, which
resort to shallow inshore water areas and it
cuts 0H their oxygen supply. The ﬁshing
industry is being seriously affected. Ships
can be ﬁtted'with oil separators (as many now
are), which makes the fact all the more
deplorable.

Rare animals in Malaya, Congo, Tasmania,
India, Zululand, Africa, Australia and South
America are in danger of extermination and
ocean mammals such as seals, whales, and
sea otters are also threatened.

The passenger pigeon, blue buck, Labrador
duck, Burchell’s zebra, Great Auk and many
more have become extinct.

More and more animals are being slaugh—
tered for fur——many suffering the most
prolonged and torturous agonies in traps or
from being skinned alive, and what is more
horrible is the fact that it is all becoming
unnecessary now that fur fabrics have reached
such perfection and are almost equal in beauty
to the most valuable pelts and are healthier,

 

lighter, and ofte
Osprey feath
fashion which

n more durable than real fur.
ers are still being worn for
means that the young birds

 

 

from whose parents the feathers are taken
during the mating season are left to die!

Some people think that the slaughter of
animals is necessary, lest they overrun and
devastate the earth. But we learn from
investigation that the state of equilibrium,
called the “ Balance of Nature,” is always
maintained, if not interfered with by human
agency.

197

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

We should urge Ship-owners to use oil
separators; refrain from wearing osprey
feathers and furs, especially those that are
obtained from baby animals before they are
born such as Broadtail, which is the pre-
maturely born of the Persian sheep. We
should also refrain from buying coats that are
made up of a large number of skins such as
ermine and mink coats. And we must help
to make sanctuaries while there is still time
to save the vanishing wild life that so beautiﬁes
and enriches the world.

 

Zoology

“ One contemplates with alarm the time when the
splendid animals of Africa will have been so far wiped
out that it will be impossible to replenish our stocks
in the various Zoological Gardens.”

Statement of a well-known Zoologist.

I
“ An unknown bea;t,” tbe Explorer cried;
And told tbe wonder far and wide.

Tben, lo, tbe expedition; tbat
Converged upon it; babitat;

For eacb Mu;eu/n and eacb Zoo
Wanted a ;pecinzen or two.

And next, tbe Sportﬂnen followedfa;t,
Eacb ;triving to out;boot tbe la;t.

Tben Trader; burried, ;eeking gain,
And Circu;—agent;, beat; to train.

Capture, and kill, and cage, and ﬂuff l
I ; Nature bountiful enougb?

II
“ Tbi; creature now i; rare,” tbey ;aid,
And ;et a price upon it; bead;

And all wbo carne to catcb or ;lay
A trifling tribute bad to pay.

Once more upon it; babitat
Converge tbe expedition; tbat

For Hunter, Trader, Circu;, Zoo,
Seek one la;t ;peciinen——or two.

III
Tbe final ;cene P~A mouldering ;kin
In ;oine Mu;eu/n’; rubbi;b-bin,

And Scientific Zeal i; ;ated.
“ Specie;
ba; been
Exterminated.”
J. L. CATHER.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

lune 1936

From Onlooker’s Note Book

    

\\\‘\\\ [/quyW

\\\i 1" V‘QNH

ﬂ ‘\“‘l.//
e

“ Now the hira’s hegin to ronse,
And the squirrelfroin the honghs
Leaps, to get him nnts andfrnit:
The early lark, that erst was innte,
Carols to the rising clay
Many a note and nzany a lay

FLETCHER.

From The Faithful Shepherdess (1610).

'3)

Wisdom of Bees

SIR THOMAS BROWNE (1605-1682). A
writer of singular charm, quaint learning,
original thought and tolerant charity chieﬂy
remembered for his “ Religio Medici” (from
which I have made a brief extract) a remarkable
book written at a time of bitter strife (1655)
yet distinguished for its quiet piety and simple
reverence :

“ What reason may not go to School to the
wisdom of Bees, Ants, and Spiders? What wise
hand teacheth them to do what Reason cannot
teach us? Ruder heads stand amazed at those
prodigious pieces of Nature, Whales, Elephants,

Dromidaries, and Camels; these, I confess, are
the Colossus and majestick pieces of her hand.”

A. Hundred Years Ago.
Excerpt from The Ohseroer of December I 3th,
1835.

“ The officers of the Animals’ Friend Society
have again fortunately interposed in the protection
of the bull from being torn to pieces by dogs for
the amusement of the rabble and the emolument
of a few disreputable publicans, who, contrary
to the more enlightened ones, encourage such
sports. Last week twenty more ‘.‘ bullards ”
were severely ﬁned or imprisoned at Bilston and
Wolverhampton, and the respectable people of the
district are overﬂowing with thanks to the institu-
tion for this interference.”

G. W. 26th June, 1793
“ We know a doe, still alive, that was hronght
up from a little fawn with a a’aia of cows;
with them it goes afiela’, and with them it returns.”
GILBERT WHITE.

198

On a beautiful memorial window in Sel—
bourne Church (Hampshire), portraying St.
Francis preaching to the birds, every bird
mentioned by Gilbert White is faithfully
depicted. The grave of the naturalist is.1n
the churchyard with the simple inscription
“ G. W., 26 June, 1793.” Nearby the church
is a huge Yew tree said to be a thousand years
old, its girth exceeds 25 feet.

The practice of religion involves as a
first principle a loving, compassmnate
heart for all creatures BUDDHA.

DUGALD SEMPLE, one time secretary of
London Vegetarian Society and author of
foys of the Simple Life, Living in Liherty and
A Free Man’s Philosophy. The underquoted
is taken from the last named volume. The
author living in the country observed how
animals were reared for food, and what is
meant by their domestication, whereas formerly
he had considered that animals were sent for
our own use and that we could use them as
pets or for any other purpose we wished.

In the chapter dealing with Our kinship
with Animals Mr. Semple asks :

“ But why cannot we have sport without
cruelty? Must the fox, otter, hare, deer, etc.,
be dragged out of their haunts in order that our
blood lusts be appeased? Surely we can have fresh
air, exercise, riding, and even shooting without
terror and agony to some defenceless creature.
No one can love wild nature more than I do, and
yet I know it is possible to enjoy to the full the
healthy adventurous life of the open without
having recourse to death and suffering. Studying
birds and animals in their native haunts, or taking,
snapshots of them with the camera, may become
quite a thrilling adventure, and may be put later
to a better use than a mere collection of lifeless
heads.”

What Better Epitaph

LAWSON TAIT, M.D., L.L.D. A man
remarkable for his strong personality, great
abilities and his passionate love for animals in a
letter written in May, 1899 said:

“ Some day I shall have a tombstone put over
me and an inscription upon it. I want only one
thing recorded on it, and that to the effect that
‘ he laboured to divert his profession from the
blundering which has resulted from the perfor-
mance of experiments on the sub-human groups
of animal life, in the hope that they would shed
light on the aberrant physiology of the human
groups. ”

ONLOOKER.

 

 




 

 

 

 

[uﬁe 1936

Dogs and Sheep

By E. M. BEEBY.

T was a pleasure to read the letter in the
May issue of THE ANIMALs’ FRIEND, and

.I sincerely hope dog-owners may take to
heart Mr. Johns’ suggestion that a dog can
easily be trained to behave properly to sheep,
and act on it. Dogs can without doubt be
brought up to love and to guard sheep—for,
are they not naturally “ guardians ” proving
themselves so every day and hour.

Some years ago we lived in Kent, with a
farmer for nearest neighbour. He had many
sheep, and he had dogs, but one of the latter, a
puppy of mixed breed, Airedale and Irish
Terrier, was, he told us, the best dog forsheep
that he ever had. Bob came into the world
during the lambing season. He became the
friend, playmate and guardian of all those
lambs, and when shortly after he came to live
with us, it was still the habit of the little
children of the farmer to come to our door
in the evening with the request, “ Please may
we have Bob for an hour? ” Of course they
had Bob, and what they chieﬂy wanted him
for was, that all might play together with the
lambs! They did so, and never was a
happier group. Bob never hurt a lamb, he
grew up, not only loving lambs, but sheep. Later
on when the lambs grew bigger, the games had
to be given up, but Bob was faithful and
never forgot his friends. He had a good
master and learned from him how best to
guard a ﬂock, also that it is necessary to help a
fallen sheep to get on its legs again, yes, and
to make sure that it could remain standing.
He guarded the sheep and loved them always.
How much suffering could be saved to sheep,
especially in sheep-rearing districts, and also
to dogs, if the latter were treated wisely and
as reasonable beings 1 Why not have guardians
instead of chains and guns?

I was walking once with Bob in a lane in
Kent, he running by my side, when he
suddenly dashed through a very thick thorn
hedge and stopped short on the other side.
He had seen that behind the hedge lay a fallen
sheep. Bob took a survey, and saw that the
cause of the tumble was that there was a
steep rise in the ground, and above that, the
meadow where the ﬂock was feeding. This
sheep had ventured too near the slope, lost
his balance, and fallen. How long he would
have remained thus I do not know for there
was not a shepherd near—but Bob decided

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

to raise the fallen one. Taking a ﬁrm grip of
him, he proceeded step by step, at much
labour to raise the sheep to the level ground
above. There he stood it up and steadied it,
after which he shepherded it to the ﬂock, and
observing that these were scattering unsafely,
he rounded them up, gave one more look at
his fallen friend, decided that all was well,
turned and came back to me.

He did not know those sheep, they belonged
to another master, but they needed help and
care and he gave it. -

I think we little know how much help is
given by animals to one another, when help
is needed.

In the same lane where the above incident
took place, there were other meadows, and
in one of these some sheep and a few cows
were grazing. One of the sheep slipped and
fell, remaining helpless—but one of the cows
seeing her trouble, walked over to her and
placing her forehead low on the ground, she
passed her strong, curved horns under'the body
of the sheep and lifted it to a standing position.

 

 

Photo by]

[E . Hayne, Streatham

”7/70 I: It?

199

n.--,_.v-_._ v-” 7...“..hm-v »

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

The Raccoon

BY HARPER CORY, F.C.G.S.

DURING late April and early May the
young of the raccoon appear on the
scene. Four is the usual number in the
litter; there may be few as two, or as many as
six. The larger the litter, the more fortunate
is the lot of the new arrivals, for the mother
over—estimates the virtues of cleanliness.
She plagues her offspring by washing them
on every possible pretext. If the family is
small she may, literally, wash her young to
death. They “Chur-chur—churl ” persistently
in protest, but the mother growls and carries
on with the good work. The result is that
washing becomes a ﬁxed habit with raccoons
and, wherever water is available, they refuse
to taste food unless it has been well and truly
washed. I have watched these creatures
groping in the mud for frogs, fish, and worms.
They make a soft whirring noise of pleasure
when the hunting is good ; then they wash the
catch not once but many times before they
dine.

The raccoon’s English name is the anglicised
form of Arocoun, an Iroquois Indian picture
word meaning “ scratches with his hands.”
It is an apt name, for trees in raccoon territory
are badly marked by the long nails on the
animal’s forepaws as he climbs to his sun—traps.
He has attained his paradise when he can ﬁnd
a hollow branch in a tall tree : the higher the
branch, the better he likes it, for there he can
lie all day fully exposed to the sun. He will
make this his permanent home to which he
returns periodically, and it will also be the
birthplace of his young. He is not content
with one home, however: he has several
scattered about his feeding grounds. Strangely
enough he shuns coniferous woods. He
may make a den in a rocky crevice, but I
have never known a raccoon to live in a hole
in the ground or in a conifer.

Although a nester and tree-climber, he
feeds on the ground exclusively, and he will
devour practically anything eatable. Eggs,
frogs, ﬁsh, reptiles, fruits, nuts, all ﬁgure on his
' menu; and he is as notorious as the black
bear for robbing honey from the wild bees.
Very slow in movement, he is a nocturnal
creature who moves with extreme caution.
I have usually found raccoons prowling near
water after dusk. They are sociable and live in

ﬁme [936

small family parties, but they never travel in
bands as some writers have wrongly claimed.

He is especially noisy in autumn, and I
think this. row is his attempt at the singing
of love lyrics. The animals hibernate for
two or three months, and as winter torpor is
usually associated with long gestation we have
a second suggestion of autumn mating.
Strictly monogamous, the raccoon remains
with his mate to help her in training the young.
The babies are kept to the nest and suckled
by the mother for several weeks, but about
mid-July she allows them to bask in the sun
at the opening of the den; they are then
about one-third grown. They do not move
far from cover and retire immediately at the
slightest suspicion of danger. They are well
able to fend for themselves by late autumn,
but the family life continues to the following
spring. Thus as many as eight raccoons
may be living in the same den inside a hollow
tree, ready to shock the woodsman who cuts
it down. Raccoons live up to twenty—ﬁve
years.

The raccoon has prominent light patches
fore and aft which are noticeable when he
moves through the dark undergrowth. His
fur is brownish grey, but the spine and back
are marked with long hairs tipped with black.
His face, however, is dull white, with a dark
spot on each cheek, and a ring of dark hairs
encircles each eye. The belly and feet are
pale grey, but the bushy tail is marked by
six or severn alternate black and white rings
encircling it. Thus, while the general colour-
ing of his body is protective, the face and tail
act as signposts in the dark.

He has an overwhelming curiosity about
bright objects, and when he sees a shining trap
he has to examine it closely—to his sorrow.
But even though his foot be locked in the trap
he is not always caught. He may leave
his foot behind, preferring three feet and
freedom to four and death. His courage is
amazing, and he is more than a match for any
dog ; sometimes he will set four dogs howling
to ﬂight.

Raccoons caught before they begin to hunt
for themselves are easily tamed, and they make
charming pets. They show great intelligence,
but are suspicious of strangers, to whom they
can be thoroughly nasty. Old raccoons
captured alive cannot respond to kindness:
they long for freedom and are extremely
dangerous at all times. Tame raccoons are so
intelligent and mischievous that they cannot

200

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

fume 1936

be given the freedom of the house.
their forepaws as hands,
how to unlatch doors and to turn the knob
of a door handle. Such items as taking corks
out of bottles and screwing the lids off small
jars and bottles are mere child’s play to them.
Having a great love of sweet things, they will
devour anything tasty they can see or smell,
whether it be jam, honey, sweets, cakes,
jellies, or preserved fruits. It is a waste of
time to hide such things—the raccoon will
ﬁnd them and eat them. If he cannot eat them
all at once he will hide the surplus where even
his owner cannot ﬁnd it.

. They use
and quickly learn

Country Contentment
By HUDSON READ.

“ If you scare t/Je Fly-mic/m" away
No good luv/é 22/271 wit/Jyoti .rz‘qy ”

T is pleasant to lean on the grey stone wall

which surrounds the trim lawn of the ancient

inn. Here one can watch the birds in quiet
contemplation, and listen to the melodious
murmur of insects on the wing. There is a rest-‘
fulness about the place, and the harsher things
of life fade from memory, for the time being.

The spotted ﬂycatcher is a frequent visitor
to this haven of peace, for this dull brown
bird delights in old world gardens. It is one
of our latest migrants, and does not reach this
little Midland village until early May. This
curious bird is so silent that one does not
always realise that it has arrived until one sees
it circle and curve in the air; then return to its
perching place. Time after
time the ﬂycatcher darts into
the air after insects, then glides
back to its outpost of vantage.

The bird does not utter any
musical song, but occasionally
gives a faint call, which sounds
like zi-chik—chik, or zi—tick-
tick. Actually it is one of our
most silent birds, and 'there—
fore goes unobserved by the
majority of casual country
ramblers. Village folks have
several names for . the ﬂy—
catcher. Here are a few : post-
bird, white baker, bee bird,
beam bird, cobweb bird, and
cherry chopper.

Its nest, which may be found
in late May, or June, is placed

in all sorts of situations, such Photo by]

 

THE ANlMALS'. FRIEND

as hole in a tree, or wall, a beam under a
cottage roof, a thick creeper by the side of
the house, and in a haystack. Sometimes a
shallow box placed in a suitable spot may
ﬁnd favour, as an artiﬁcial site. The nest is
fairly neat, although loosely constructed,
usually lined with hair, wool, and a sprinkle
of feathers. The eggs which may number
5 to 8, shade from pale blue to a sort of
greenish blue. ,

" When the winds begin to carry a faint chill
in late September, these unobtrusive birds
slip away to southern countries where the
sun is warm, and food abundant.

Bird Notes and News.

Outstanding articles in the Spring Number of Bird
Note; and New; are Mr. A. Roebuck’s “Birds in
Agriculture,” the incidents cited in which may cause
farmers to think over the question of birds versus
insects; “ Highways and Hedgerows,” a series of
opinions from correspondents of the R.S.P.B. on
modern hedge-cutting and trimming; a study of
“ The Little Owl,” “ A Communal Sanctuary,” which
furnishes an interesting account of the formation of a
bird sanctuary by neighbours in Kent; “ Birds in
Berlin ”; “ In a Toronto Suburb,” affording a very
happy picture of bird life in garden and by lakeside;
while a brief tribute to H.M. George V reminds readers
of the establishment during the late King’s reign of
bird sanctuaries in the Royal Parks. The frontispiece

is a replica, in reduced form and black—and-white, of
a new poster appeal for “ Birds and the Countryside ”
which is being issued, with reproductions of paintings
by Thorburn, by the Royal Society for the Protection
of Birds.

 

[0. M. Clark, Windermere:

201

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Our Contributors
Edmund -Gabriel Barlow.

ANY animal lovers are passivists : they

love the animals they own but they do

not struggle for justice for other ani—

mals. Edmund Gabriel Barlow’s life has
been a continuous struggle and sacriﬁce for
all animals. »
He was born in 1905 of ordinary unimagin—
ative working- —class parents who were bitterly
hostile to his affectionate interest in animals.
At a very early age he used to pickup stray
cats and take them home but his father kicked
(literally kicked) them out again. By the
ﬁerce hoarding of every penny he received
(and they were not many) he acquired various
pets, but they, and he, received similar treat-
ment to the cats. “ Conform or be kicked ”
has been said to be the public—school motto;
no doubt it was that of his parents. At the
age of 14 he became a vegetarian on moral
grounds and was told, “Eat what we put before
you or starve.” He came near to starving on
most days; certainly he was undernourished.

 

ﬁlm: 1936

After the ordinary elementary school edu-
cation he started work at I4 and has been a
trolley-boy, newsboy, errand boy for a
chemist, a stationer, and a bookstall, clerk,
labourer, rent-collector, pusher of an ice-
cream cart, and “ enjoyed ” the “leisure ” of
the unemployed. 'He has experienced all the
ignominy that poverty provides and has a
bitter contempt for the people who say
“ Poverty is good for the artist,’ ’never having
experienced it themselves.

Since he was 17 he has used his pen in
scathing cartoons and equally scathing prose
against all forms of cruelty to animals and
man. This has not helped him to wealth, for
it is a curious thing that many lovers of
justice for animals are indifferent to the claims
of man and many who fight most vigorously
for the rights of man are indifferent to those of
animals.

A forceful speaker, Barlow has pressed the
cause of animals at outdoor and indoor
meetings. His satirical comments may:
prevent some people realising that he is
Consistently kind, and not of those who
attack vivisection but wear fur coats or are
vegetarians but castrate cats, and he does not
spare such people. His favourite method of
attack is satire and he converted the present
writer to vegetarianism by his remorseless
attack continued over many months. He-
has rescued hundreds of stray cats and dogs,
sometimes at the risk of his own life, and like-
“ Humanity ” Martin he has not been averse
to using force on people ill— —treating animals, a.
notable occasion being when the ﬂogger of a
donkey was a minute later ﬂogged with his
own whip.

He has a gift for understanding animals
and can get on friendly terms with many of
them in a very short time.

He has contributed humorous, satirical and
political drawings to numerous English and
foreign papers and his work has received
praise from such different journals as 1726
T222265 and 7796 Mam/265262 Guardzcm. Der-
0176222122126 Dzeim‘ (Zurich) in a long illustrated
article on Barlow’ s cartoons referred to “ his
great love for animals, which he manifests 1n
many of his drawings, and his disgust for
meat.” In the belief that by ceaseless educa—

.1 tion. and ridicule it is possible to achieve a

‘wOrld where men and animals will live in
happiness together, he works unceasingly'
for that end.

W. P. T.

’ 202

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

func 1935

Ernst Toller

By E. G. BARLOW.

RNST TOLLER (now exiled from

Germany by the revengeful Nazis) was a

German revolutionary. He fought in
the war of 1914. Later he was jailed for
5 years in the fortress of Niederschanfeld
for his share in a revolutionary rising.

His writings contain numerous sympathetic
references to animals. In his play Brokenbraw,
a most ferocious attack on the stupidity of
war, he compares victimised man and victim—
ised\beast. As the mutilated hero holds a
goldﬁnch in his hand, blinded for gain, he
asks, “ The feelings of an animal, well, what
about it? Wring its neck, cut its throat, put a
bullet through it—who cares?”

In Tbe Swallow—Book written in prison, and
dedicated to two swallows who nested in his
cell, he has many ﬁne poems of interest to the
humanitarian.

Toller’s poems stress the misery of cap—
tivity, the longing for freedom, and the best
of the world that lies beyond the bars, the
barbarities that man inﬂicts on man and

animals, the joys and griefs of the swallow—folk,
and the courage, joy and hope that the birds
give him.
“ Let Europe cbant tbe praises of ber aeroplanes,
But I, tbe Prisoner Number 44,
Wit/7 all tbe silent concords of my beart

Will praise tbe flngt of swallows. ”

“ You my brotberl , my valiant swallows l

I watcb you from tbe prison yard.

Hovers a bawk witb migbty wings outspread
On morning breezes.

I bear tbe piercing note of darting swallows,
Cry ecboing my on every band.

Wbo gave tbe signal of alarm?

An arrowy bost assails tbe royal bird

Wbo bolds a fledgling sparrow in bis talons.
But tbe brave swallows mount to tbe assault,
Tbeir passions all on fire, tbey press bim bard.
His bovering grows uncertain, desperate. . . .
Tbe strong is vanguisbed by tbe weak I

A screecb of anger, and tbe bawk,

Compel/ed by tbeir confederation,

Opens bis clutcbing talons.
Tbe fledgling, dazed, flutters to eartb again.

In blissful swoops tbe swallows celebrate

Tbe victory of brotberbood.”

4: :i: -l=

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

“ And once again tbe swallows build tbeir nest.
Come days of wooing, days of consummation.
And once again tbe ecstag/ of peace.

But in tbe outer world my brotbers figbt. . . .”

The foregoing quotations give an indication
of Toller’s understanding. The extracts that
follow are taken from one of the greatest
animal poems ever written.

“ But wben, 0 birds and beasts, will you

Make common cause

Against bumanizy?

I, wbo am man ‘

Will summon you!

Fincbes wbose eyes are pierced witb glaring
needles,

S beep stifled in tbe bolds of stranded sbips,

Asses, O gentlest creatures, swooning under
tbongs,

And ostricbes plucked quivering in tbe sun,

And ponies toiling in black festering pits,

And bears entamed on mats of glaring iron

And circus lions flogged witb knouts of steel—

I summon

All of you!

I summon

All I

Arise !

We will avenge

Your martyrdom to man !

Beasts tortured for tbe wbim of gluttony,
Beasts mocked and flayed for fasbion’s
mummeries, ,
Beasts martyred to tbe lust of brutisb crowds,
Beasts mangled in tbe senseless cogs of
war. . . .

Come, I will be your captain,

I, a renegade of buman kind,
Will lead you in tbe fig/7t against
Your adversar

Man. '

Tbe stork in tbe beaven knowetb ber appointed time ' and

1

tbe turtle and tbe crane and tbe swallow observe tbe time of

tbeir coming; but my people know not tbe judgment of tbe
Lord. ,

JEREMIAH, 8, 7.

Like a crane or a swallow, so did I cbatter.

ISAIAH, 38, I4.

203

C2

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’- FRIEND

“The Swallow hath found
a Nest ”

IN the Spectator of August 25th, I observe an.

interesting letter on the above subject. Of

the barn swallow your correspondent writes :
“ They nest twice a year, never using the same
nest.” Now this statement must be qualiﬁed,
I think, as the following incident will show.
Last year a pair of swallows commenced to
build on the projecting ledge of a pillar
supporting the porch of my house. They had
reared a brood in the same place the previous
year, and their presence was found to be
rather objectionable on the score of cleanliness.
My wife accordingly instructed the gardener
to remove the half—built nest, and, to deter
the birds from renewing the work of building,
a small earthenware jar was placed on the ledge.
After the lapse of a few days the birds were
observed to be ﬂying into the porch, and an
examination showed that the nest was being
built on the top of t/yejar. We did not interfere
with this second attempt, and the result was a
brood of four young birds, which in due time
were ﬂedged. The nest had not been vacated
much more than a week when the old birds
were back at it, and again a family of four was
reared.

While on the subject of birds it may be
interesting to some of your readers to hear of
the proceedings of a pair of thrushes which
came under my observation three years ago.
About twelve feet from one of the windows
of my dining—room grows a large Auricaria,
and on one of the branches, close to the stem,

 

Photo by]
Swallow at l\Te.rt. W’bose turn?

[C. M. Clark, Windermere

June 1936

and on a level with the sill of a window, a nest
was commenced. The position was most
favourable for observation, and day by day
we watched the pair of busy thrushes at their
work. In the natural course of events the
young appeared and grew apace. One day
we noticed that only three young birds were
in the nest instead of four, and we found that
one had been pushed over the side and lost.
Soon the family left home, and after the usual
help to start them in life the parents found
leisure to inspect the empty nest. They
evidently thought that with a little necessary
repair it might be utilised for the rearing of
another brood. They seemed to remember,
however, the sad loss of one of their former
family, and concluded that the nest was too
shallow for safety. They accordingly set
about the work of raising the sides, and when
the repairs were completed, the nest had the
curious appearance of a ring of bright-coloured
material, about three—quarters of an inch deep,
all round. In this enlarged nest they success—
fully reared a brood of four.

RICHARD G. Ross.

(From Dogy, Birds and Ot/Jem, by H. G. Massingham.)

 

An Unusual Nesting Site.

Some years ago I saw a swallows nest of unusual
interest from the point of view of location and con—
struction. It was at Arras, and the nest was built on
and around the outside of the sloping sides of an
electric lamp shade hung in the centre of the arched
entrance to the courtyard of the hotel in which we
were staying. My attention was called to it from
some little distance, by the wheeling ﬂights of the
parent birds and by their repeated journeying to and

from the unusual site on which they alighted.
Drawing closer to observe, I was surprised
;{ to ﬁnd a beautifully constructed nest built up
on and around the higher slope of the shade
to a saucer shaped elevation, on which the
:1; nest itself had been made, and out of which
the expectant heads of some ﬁve or six
nestlings appeared in circular formation.

It was to satisfy the voracious demands of

these nestlings that the foraging ﬂights of
the parent birds, which had drawn my atten—
tion to the nest, were undertaken. The birds
were quite undisturbed by the considerable
,_ vehicular and pedestrian traffic that passed
1;? underneath the archway. '
The labour inVolved in building up the
. ’ nest must have been immense, for the nest
i; was, of course, formed of small lumps of
moist earth which had been carried to the
spot in the bird’s bill and duly arranged and
modelled to the required shape and to suit
,3, the exigencies of the site,with the aid of short
H straws or slender sticks.

R. H. S.

204

 

 

 

 




'WNHH

 

 

 

 

 

 

june 1936

Membra Disjecta ,
By BASIL HARVEY-JAMES.

T HERE is a variety of ways in which
animals may be regarded by their human

friends. We may regard each species as
being self—sufﬁcient, we may regard them as
bringing some message from Eternity, or,
combining these, we may consider each kind of
animal as autonomous and yet related to a
greater whole. '

All these viewpoints are legitimate and
reasonable. It would perhaps be proﬁtable
however to exemplify them by literary quota—
tions. My ﬁrst quotation, exemplifying the
autonomous aspect of animal life, is from the
ﬁfth scene of the fourth act of Ibsen’s
“ Peer Gynt.”

A toad—looking out of a piece of sandstone,

Only bis bead peeping out of bis cbamber.

He sits, as if looking out of a window

At tbe world; to bimself be is enougb!

This quatrain may. recall certain lines of
Blunt’s on the toad, quoted in one of my
former essays.

I take my second quotation from the poems
recently published by my friend, Alastair
Davis, “ A Song of Spring.” I have been able
to quote an earlier poem of his “ The
Swallows ” in a former article. Davis, like
so many poets, ﬁnds a message of divinity and
eternity in the presence of bird life. Here
then is another poem of his inspiration from
the feathered world.

 

THE BLACKBIRD.

Tbe garden is ablaze witb lngt,

Pair summer reigns in tbroned ngbt;
S oft blows tbe flower-laden air,

Tbe songs of birds are everywbere.

Amid tbat silver tbroated tbrong

Tbere sounds tbe tbralling blackbirds’ song,
Sweet/y warbling, low and clear, ’
Recalling me for many a year.

Once more ’tis summertide and I,
A little cbild witb wondering joy
First catcb tbat tbrilling sounding note
Cascading from tbe blackbird’s tbroat.

’Tis memoried in my cbildbood years
Witbyoutbful bappiness and tears,
And every summer wben be sings,
Eternal loveliness be brings.

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

My third quotation is, from- “ The Soul of a
People ” by H. Fielding Hall. This book
dealing with the Burmese is one I recommend
to all humanitarians and zoophilists. It
merits long quotation, but one must avoid the:
temptation to get one’s articles written for one.

“ It is true that it is part of their great theory of
life that the souls of men have risen from being
souls of beasts, and that we may so relapse if we
are not careful. . . . But that makes no differ-
ence. Whatever a man may have been, or may be,
he is a man now; whatever a beast may have been,
he is a beast now. Never suppose that a Burman
has any other idea than this. To him men are
men, and animals are animals, and men are far the
higher. But he does not deduce from this that
man’s superiority gives him permission to illtreat
or to kill animals. It is just tbe reverse. It is
because man is so much higher than the animal
that he can and must observe towards animals the
very greatest care, feel for them the very greatest
compassion, be good to them in every way he
can.

For the Burman’s compassion towards animals
goes very much farther than a mere reluctance' to
kill them. Although he has no command on the
subject, it seems to him quite as important to
treat animals well during their lives as to refrain
from taking those lives. His refusal to take life
he shares with the Hindu; bis perpetual care and
tenderness to all living creatures is all bis own. And
here I may mention a very curious contrast, that
whereas in India the Hindu will not take life and
the Moslem will, yet the Mussulman is by reputa—
tion far kinder to his beasts than the Hindu. Here
tbe Burman combines botb qualities. He has all the
kindness to animals that the Mahommedan has,
and more, and he has the same horror of taking life
that the Hindu has.”

I must confess that most sermons bore me,
but one of four or ﬁve that stand out in my
mind was one on Man’s dependence, inde-
pendence and inter—dependence. I think this
can be applied likewise to the animal world
alike in the relations of beast to man and in the
inter—relation of the various species. I think
that this is what my three quotations exemplify,
and it is certainly what I meant to convey in my
opening preamble. And while I have had to
go to countries as far apart as Burmah, Norway
and Cambria for my “ scattered limbs,” I do
not think that that will prevent them forming a
“ body of truth,” but should rather reinforce
It.

I value. my garden more for being full of blackbirds tban
of cberries, and very frankly give tbem fruit for tbeir songs.
THE SPECTATOR, No. 477.

Quaintest, ricbest carol of all tbe singing tbroats (tbe
blacbbird).
MEREDITH.

205

 

 

 

 

 




 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Movet

By EDGAR SYERS.

OGARTH was a pictorial moralist and

most people are familiar with his remark-

able works which'depict with grim humour
TIJe Renee’s Program, The Harlot’s Progress and
Marriage 52 la Mode.

There is another series, not so well known,
entitled The Four Stages of Cruelty which shows
with shocking sincerity the progress of this
vice. It must be remembered that in Hogarth’s
time, and for long after, there was no punish—
ment for those who ill-treated domestic
animals, on which the most atrocious cruelty
could be inﬂicted with impunity. In those
days, too, bull baiting, bear baiting, cock
ﬁghting and cock throwing were popular
amusements, the latter is one of the incidents
depicted in the first plate of the Fear Stages.
CoCk ﬁghting, which was made illegal in 1849,
still persists in secret and prosecutions were
recently instituted at Portsmouth, where the
sport had been carried on on Sunday for
several years, at mining villages in Cumberland
and at Kendal.

It may be that some day another pictorial
moralist will be found to portray the dragging
to slaughter of a hunted hind, which had just
been separated from the calf, from the waters
of the river Barle, the dismemberment of a
coursed hare by contending dogs, the otter
bursting for want of breath and compelled to
come up to vent among its enemies and the
doing to death of the exhausted fox which
had sought sanctuary in the kitchen of a
sporting Parson who, as one of the hunt, had
followed one of them to be in at the death.

Could pictures of such scenes as these be
drawn and published they might be dedicated
appropriately to those Sportsmen and Sports-
women of England who are familiar with
them and to whom they would furnish
agreeable reminders of the pleasures of the
Chase.

W’hen we reﬂect that such sports are
subsidised and enjoyed by hundreds of people
in England to-day, the question comes—are
the followers of them much more civilised
than their forefathers who were patrons of
the bull—ring, the bear—garden and the cock-
pit? '

Macaulay’s jibe against the Puritans was
“ they hated bear—baiting, not because it gave
pain to the bear but because it gave pleasure

ﬁme 1936

to the spectators.” This may, or ”may not,
be true, but that they did seek to abolish this
diversion must be counted unto them for
righteousness, and it is at least possible they
recognised that such exhibitions were demoral—
ising to those who witnessed them.

Reform seems slow, but Truth will prevail
and when contemplating the atrocities of the
past we may rejoice and say with Gallileo
“ Movet ” and congratulate ourselves that
there is no authority which can seek to compel
m to recant or deny our faith.

One Hundred Years Ago

It is interesting to pick up a book in no
way related to animals, and ﬁnd therein
references to animal exploitation. From
Mrs. Gaskell’s Life of Charlotte Bronte (1860),
I take the following quotations :—

Another squire, of more distinguished family
and larger property. . . His great amusement
and occupation had been cock-ﬁghting. When
he was conﬁned to his chamber with what he
knew would be his last illness, he had his cocks
brought up there, and watched the bloody battle
from his bed. As his mortal disease increased,
and it became impossible for him to turn so as
to follow the combat, he had looking-glasses
arranged in such a manner, around and above
him, as he lay, that he could still see the cocks
ﬁghting. And in this manner he died.

. . . The bull baitings at Rochdale not thirty
years ago. The bull was fastened by a chain or
rope to a post in the river. To increase the
amount of water, as well as to give their work—
people the opportunity of savage delight, the
masters were accustomed to stop their mills on
the day when the sport took place. The bull
would sometimes wheel suddenly round, so
that the rope by which he was fastened swept
those who had been careless enough to come
within its range down into the water, and the
good people of Rochdale had the excitement of
seeing one or two of their neighbours drowned,

as well as of witnessing the bull baited, and the

dogs torn and tossed.

FOX HUNTING.

Fox hunting is a comparatively modern sport. In
mediaeval times the fox, in common with the deer,
the stag, and the hare, was hunted and killed, but in
his case not for amusement so much as for the
extermination of a “ pest.” Only in the seventeenth
century did the “ beast of stinking ﬂight ” become a
sporting animal, and not until a century later did
foxhounds begin to rival staghounds in the favour of
huntsmen. The early packs hunted foxes in common
with other wild animals, except deer, and Squire
Fownes of Stapleton is reputed to have been the ﬁrst
to get together, about 1730, a pack devoted entirely
to the pursuit of the fox.

206

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

fune 1936

St. Bernard of Catania
(Died 1486)

By MARION REID.

 

 

 

 

ERNARD was very wild and dissolute in

his youth. But one dayhe fought a duel

and was badly wounded. Lying in the
agony of death as he believed, he realised in a
ﬂash his evil past, and he vowed that if ever
he recovered by the grace of God, he would
dedicate to the Giver the life thus given back
to him. There are many who think thus in
extremity but who forget all their good
resolutions once they are out of danger. But
Bernard was not like that. For weeks he lay,
pale and weak, on his bed and he had plenty
of time for meditation. The recollection of
his crimes ﬁlled him with horror. It seemed
as if nothing could blot them out. Day and
night he wept tears of the deepest contrition
so that he became almost blind. He rose
from his bed a changed man. As he tottered
out for the ﬁrst time into the sunshine his
heart was full of thankfulness to God who had

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

spared him to make amends for all the harm
he had done. The bright faces of the ﬂowers
seemed to greet him. The little birds sang
their welcome to him. He had never noticed
such simple things before. Now he felt that
birds and ﬂowers joined with him in praise of
their Maker. Now he felt that he was entering
the kingdom of heaven with them.

As soon as he was able to walk so far he
went to the dominican monastery at Catania,
saw the Prior and asked to be admitted into
the order. The Prior realised at once how
earnest he was, and he gave him the dominican
robe. Bernard entered the monastery and
began a life of extreme austerity. He spent
the day and often all the night in prayer. He

prayed for hours in his cell, he prayed for

hours in the chapel, but most of all, when
spring came and the sun shone he would love
to go into the monastery garden and kneel
amongst the ﬂowers and commune there with
God—sometimes, out of the fulness of his
heart he would lift up his voice in praise.
Directly he appeared in the garden the little
birds came ﬂying to meet him and as he knelt
they ﬂuttered joyously around him. When he
sang they joined in his song. The man was
the priest and the birds were the congregation.
Amongst the ﬂowers and the birds Bernard
found balm for all his woundings and his heart
became ﬁlled with a great peace—the peace
that passeth understanding.

Portrait of a Budgerigar

Tbe primrose kissed bis bead, leaning ber print
Of lone upon bis brow, in softest tint.

Tbe eoiuslip pressed ber petals to bis face

5 bedding tbeir golden bloom to mark tbe plate.
Next tbe forget—me—not painted bis oere.

Tbe larkspur splasbed upon eaeb ebee/é a tear.
Tbe dappled sunligbt tbrougb tbe leaues in spring
Gabe bim tbe ripples on bis bark and wing.

His long tail ' featbers too/é tbeir dar/éer bue
From sleeping under skies of star—lit blue.

But tubere tbe Lone—Bird woue bis sil/éen nest
Remains a seeret looked u/itbin bis breast.

No virgin beeeb—leaf euer bad tbat sbeen,

Nor April grass could matob tbat dazzling green I
His sbimmering plumage tbron/s into tbe sbade
Tbe gleam of emerald, peridot, andjade !

And Nature witb tbe artist’s touob, bas set
Upon bis yellow tbroat six beads ofjet.

CICELY O. ORDE WARD.

207

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

lune 1936

Parliament and the Gin Trap.

By CAPT. C. W. HUME,

Hon. Secretary, University of London

Twill be remembered that when Viscount

Tredegar was good enough to introduce

our Gin Traps (Prohibition) Bill in the
House of Lords a year ago, it was defeated by
only 46 votes to 42. This does not mean
that ﬁve more votes would have passed the Bill
through the House of Lords. It was clear
that we could not succeed so far at that time,
and we sought to have the Bill carried to a
Select Committee of the House in order that
the facts might be thrashed out by an impartial
committee, away from the inﬂuence of passion
and appeals to prejudice.

We were mainly defeated by two allegations.
One was that the Bill was directed against ﬁeld
sports, the other that the gin trap is needed for
keeping down rabbits.

To take the latter consideration ﬁrst; the
contention of ULAWS has always been that, far
from keeping down rabbits, the gin trap tends
to keep them up ; that it is a means for trading
in rabbits, not for controlling them; that the
rabbit-trapping industry is parasitic upon
genuine agriculture; and that it would be
economically proﬁtable to use cyanide
fumigation, which happens to be humane but
is of no use for commercial rabbit—catching,
for the purpose of controlling the devastation
of crops, pastures and forests by rabbits. It
was impossible to bring this point home in a
heated atmosphere where so many prejudices
were in play.

Having been defeated in our ﬁrst attempt,
we next went about to obtain the appointment
of a Select Committee without reference to
any Bill. In this way it is hoped that the more
important questions of fact may be settled in
an atmosphere of judicial calm, and that the
way may be cleared for a subsequent parlia—
mentary ﬁght on the facts of the matter as
they really are.

Accordingly, with the help of Sir William
Graham—Harrison, we drafted suitable terms
of reference, and Lord Merthyr was kind
enough to move the motion for the appoint-
ment of the Select Committee on May 14th.
It was passed unanimously with the blessing
of the Government spokesman and of the
Chairman of the body which principally

208

Animal Welfare Society.

opposed us a year ago. This marks a deﬁnite
step forward.

However, the trump card in the campaign
against the gin trap has been the introduction
of cyanide fumigation. Those who have
vested interests in the gin trap have naturally
sought to discredit this method by all means
in their power. A weapon has been put into
their hands by some well—meaning animal-
lovers who have been recommending the
fumigation of foxes. This was at once
seized upon, in a very unscrupulous way, to
support the plea that the attack on the gin
trap is motivated by opposition to field sports;
and since no Bill could pass through the House
of Lords (even if it could pass through the
House of Commons) without the support of
sportsmen, we have suffered a deﬁnite setback. '
This is not the place to argue for my own
belief, which is that fox—hunting can be and
often is conducted by humane men in a
humane way. No doubt if I expatiate upon
that theme I' shall bring down a salvo upon
myself. But I do wish to point out that the
Gin Traps (Prohibition) Bill is not an attack
on ﬁeld sports and that anybody who gets the
two things mixed up with each other is making
it more difficult to abolish the gin.

Apart from this one contretemps, a happy
feature of the campaign against the gin trap
has been the unity and co-operation of various
animal—lovers holding different points of view.
The promoters of the Bill (ULAWS) have
enjoyed the hearty support of the R.S.P.C.A.,
the Scottish S.P.C.A., the Fur Crusade, the
R.S.P. Birds, the National Council for Animals
Welfare, and a great many other bodies.
Many of these bodies are also working in
other appropriate ways to discourage the use of
the gin trap and to favour its ultimate abolition
throughout the world. A word of special
appreciation must be put in for what the
R.S.P.C.A. is doing in giving demonstrations,
particularly of fumigation, throughout the
country. '

A resolution to be moved at the Annual
Meeting of the National Federation of
Women’s Institutes by Mrs. Cresswell, of '
Northumberland, will have met its fate,

(Concluded on 1). 217).

 

 




 

 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

fzmc‘ I936

: ﬂ
:5 n
. . . g
s s s e
... :ﬁ...

\\

V
s§s
A~ VsWNOWMO.
.. seq s9 o

.v. §
. ~ .3

b

\
~23

~

.
.\‘.

 

Q.
.. ~§
yawn...”
/ gnu}.

311323431111. ,

«"6.‘ ”v
«‘3‘3”
0‘ s‘ e‘ o

"O

O
«3:.
O

\
"o
‘ 0.0
3”

:
:6."
o“.

. n... .6.
i 71/. 4:433:00. 0.
9,, 'llerlln‘>lv.0%. O... 0.
7113/.va maul“? » 0.00
.r 49%.? 2..»«« o. o 0s
,MMMW.$yMHVKIJherFi

IJNK art. .

“

.C‘.‘

‘3‘.
a ‘o'

O
‘Q

9

o
5‘.“
.9 $

0
/ M
o o
0 9 o
0.034”
O. o .

9009
‘tia’d‘a‘
J ‘b h. ‘
7 r 6/,
////‘// I

‘0

g

,,,/.,

\‘0

..

b o e
0 q.

e 0 {‘49
I

s

‘1
9
J
O

‘0

I .

¢.
. _ 7, A
. ., a}; 3,4,

‘ O

.s O‘s’.‘.

t q, . Q
' 0“.“

' 4:?
03‘s....
0 o '
I’;

‘Q
«‘3'

}

5")! |
.91
I

O
0.:
o
o
O

l
§
1.:

Ii
:30

O
o"

r..

I // 1/7/1177 //.K/

I/
x

//
1

’0. . fl / . :I 1.
co , ,/ ,
a i , z /
u.0¢0. ’71, ., I )y ’7
".VWK/IVIZM/ﬂd» / , 4%.]: .
I. . . r. / .r .1 ’ rill/U, ‘1' .

. /,/(//,..,w2,%%wwﬁltwml.w. ..
09.0 / //0U/J/ﬂa aim/1, 1/ y‘iwﬂuuuuﬂlttu .
/ ouuunnunoMoOOoo o , . 1/3/14”, , ... .
woo I’M’INooVosOo . /////M//,.,///
.5 0.0 li' . /////W//

Q
to

o
o.

'I’
O

O

.0
O 0,:0
0:01”;

0:
,oo

$ ’
O C ."".’

O
O.

O
O ’
'I

I

O

z i
ii Kw... . .Z‘ .,
ES ..§=_=§g=£s 25ml, 5.5.x.“ . 34....)
x . v .‘ WE v Iiiﬁs» . 4 .1 :O‘O‘OIlOO/W’ v06
“0 i . ’0‘ 00". 9...“.«7'0
.. 3 a.
. ...

Q

7% i. ,,,. .3.
Visas;§d§a§§ aw... 3%..

. .. ”MI.

3..

.:9
33‘.

-
a.
”

’o
.2
o—O’o'on

."
a"
A'.

 

I

ll

O~
0.
oh
0

O ‘Hwh

v . . .

":anivbﬂ.
.09 quwm

.0 y
0 O
u...
V.
.0

Q

s
‘0.
0

0'00'03N ‘
'ioﬁ'ot'o"ﬁ~o
0'0 '0 '0‘. '0’.
0! .00 'o '0‘"
'0‘ 0‘.” .
39%:-

0' 0"0'
6%:
0, .

o
'A

'6

i";
C -. .
'..'l'a

 

0rd(s) Deliver Us.”
Prohibition) Bill was defeated by 46 votes to 42.”)

“ Good L

(

S

go the Gin Trap

(“A year a

 

209




 

 

 

'4‘7;':‘." *- ""4"” '7 2 ,,.r,_,, 7 , . , .7 7. A 1 # .--. .mn.;_.__,wrwm.cw arm-=— .V-ﬂzﬁ‘»‘=“A"‘

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

 

 

 

ﬁme I936

The Library Table

'Old Memories and Letters 0f Annie
Besant. By Esther Bright. Theosophical
Publishing House, London. 55. 6d. net.

This is not a book about animals or animal
welfare, but it is written by one who may be

described without the slightest misuse of a

much abused term as “ an animal lover.”

This aspect of the character of the author may

be discovered in several passages in Old

Memories and Letters, as for instance, when

speaking of the hard war—time winter of

1916—17, Miss Bright writes :

I fed the birds lavishly and bought more margarine
than was legally permissible in those hard days.
But I would willingly have gone without any
butter myself to feed those starving little creatures,

thrushes, blackbirds, robins, tits and, of course,
very many sparrows.

Again, this aspect of the author’s Self is
revealed in the passage in which she refers to one
C/az'mgy Bokusb, “ the sandy—coloured Pekinese,
with black face and great loving eyes who
gave me a devotion and faithfulness impossible
to describe.” But there are other dogs in
her world, the pariah dogs of India, of whom
Miss Bright speaks as “ pitiable, terrified,
homeless creatures, half—wild, mangy, unwhole—
some and friendless ” who “ appeal to me
with a terrible power.” “ Some of them,”
she writes (she was staying at Adyar, Madras,
at the time)

have found a friend in me . . . Two, small
female things, amongst others, have found me
out. They bring their friends and come and lie
in the long grass near my little home. They have
never known kindness; no friendly hand has
ever touched them. At ﬁrst they feared and
distrusted me, now for the ﬁrst time in their lives a
kindly hand has been outstretched towards them,
a friendly word spoken and food offered.

Old Memories and Letters is a book of some
of the personal and intimate associations of
the author with a great and noble woman——
Annie Besant—“ reformer, spiritual leader,
orator and statesman ” and, it may be added, a
stalwart” champion of the rights of animals.
In it we are told of “ the little things of life
which really count, the intimate, lovable traits
which make us realise the all—round nature of a
great Soul.” And by reason of her own
tender and close friendship with Annie Besant
in sunshine and shadow, through good repute
and through ill, over a long period of years,
and by reason of her capacity for under-
standing and appreciating true values, Miss

Bright has written a book for which the
friends of Dr. Besant in many lands will ever
be grateful; which in her own words

will remind the older ones of the very wonderful
times we lived through when A. B. was—what
she was in those days,

and
may help the young people of to—day to realise
how some of us felt forty years ago.” S

Wild Life Ways. By Harper Cory, F.C.G.S.
With illustrations by W. Neave Parker.
University of London Press. gs. 6d. net.

The University of London Press has just
issued in one volume, under the above title,
with the original illustrations to which 8 full
page photographic plates have been added,
the four individual studies “ Teddy Bear’s
Family,” “ Queenie the Bronco,” “ The
Beaver People ” and “ Rover; a Collie-
Coyote,” issued in separate volumes a few
months back. Each of these studies by the
great Canadian naturalist describes the life and
habits of one particular individual or species
and every incident quoted is founded on fact.
In them the animals come alive; their per-
sonalities and conduct live and move in the
pages of the book, which are full of incidents
natural to the lives of the subjects. Children
find them of absorbing interest and they are
by no means despised by grown—ups, for they
are the outcome of critical and accurate
observation, combined with a deep and
sympathetic understanding of animal life and
conduct. A copy of this volume should be
in the hands of all those who seek to interest
children and young people in animal life and
welfare; they will ﬁnd within its pages a
treasure mine of animal characteristics, conduct
and incidents which, if they know how to
make use of it to advantage, will enable them
to hold their audience in rapt attention.

It is a great advantage to teachers and
speakers to have the four studies in one book,
and the volume will make a most attractive
gift or prize. The publishers are to be
congratulated upon the way in which they
have produced the volume which is bound in
cloth boards of an attractive green shade.
The print is all that can be desired and the
illustrations by Neave Parker are of unusual
merit.

R. H. S.

210

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

fune 1936

Kellyann Married. Being a sequel to Kellyann
The Story of a Manx Cat. By Herself.
Edited by Kate Whitehead. The
Epworth Press, 25-35 City Road, E.C.I.

This is a tale of a tail-less cat and of her life
as one of a feline group in the human household
which served it.

The reactions of cat to cat and" of cat to
human are amusingly recorded and often have
the authentic ring, but there is one point on
which we cannot help feeling that Kellyann,
in her anxiety to paint in glowing colours

- the great experience of her life, has strayed

from the narrow path of truth! As one
who knows something of the ways of “ Toms,”
the present reviewer ﬁnds it difﬁcult to accept
the character of Robin as authentic—even
though the narrative records his ultimate fall
from grace and the banishment from the
company of the righteous which ensued.
He is portrayed as we would like every Thomas
to be—romantic, monogamous,
husband and a proud father—but is there such
a one? It is true that Kellyann was a very
special (Manx) cat and possibly her “ Robin,”
sensing this, made a very special effort to be a
worthy swain. We are however with all due
apologies to the lady, not convinced!

A. L. H.

The Lord of Life. A Service of Prayer and
Praise. Compiled by Will Hayes. Obtain—
able from the Order of the Great
Companions, 5 Maidstone Road, Chatham.

Single copies, Is., 20 or more, 6d. each.

There are in this Service some ﬁne readings
culled from the great scriptures of the world,
with prayer, poems and hymns all bearing on
the theme of Kinship.

It has been compiled for use in Mr. Hayes’
Church of the Great Companions but it would
also be very suitable used as a School “ Cele—
bration ” in Animals’ Welfare Week, though
for small children it would probably need
some adaptation.

\Ve would further commend it to any
minister of religion or Sunday School Superin—
tendent broad-minded enough to appreciate
the diversity of sources from which its
inspiration has been drawn.

A. L. H.

211

a loving '

 

THE ANIMALS" FRIEND

Monkeys. By Rose Fyleman. Discovery
Books, Nelson & Sons, Ltd. 23. 6d.'net.
This is a companion volume to the book on
Bears by the same author. In it Miss Fyleman
goes back many centuries to many lands and
many writers for the facts and fancies, stories
and legends, about the monkey tribes which
are to be found in this volume, for “ all through
the centuries the monkey’s brown face peeps
out at us, now here, now there.” There is
a chapter on “ Different Kinds of Monkeys ” ;
one on “ Gibbons, Siamangs and Orang
Outans.” The Chimpanzees and the Gorillas
each have a chapter to themselves. Two
other sections are entitled, “ Smaller Monkeys
of the Old World ” and “ Monkeys of the
New World,” respectively. Chapters 8 and 9
are devoted to “ Legends, Superstitions and
Stories about Monkeys ” and “ More Old
Tales about Monkeys ” and, ﬁnally, there
is a chapter on the captive Monkeys of the
Zoo.

One of the most interesting chapters in the
book is that on the Chimpanzee, in which
some of the intelligence tests carried out by
Kohler and others are described. These have
proved that Chimpanzees think and that an
intelligent chimpanzee is a far brainier animal
than any other that has so far been discovered.

This is not a book on Monkeys written by an
open air naturalist who has known and studied
his subjects in their native haunts, nor is it a
book for young children, but anyone above
the 12—14 years age limit who is by way of
being interested in animal life and conduct,
and specially the life of monkeys and apes,
will ﬁnd much to instruct, interest and amuse
them within its 100 odd pages. The 12
photographic studies which illustrate the
work, reproduced by the courtesy of Mr.
F. W. Bond, F.Z.S., add much to the interest
of the volume.

R. H. S.

 

Orang-0mg” Asleep.

 




 

 

 

  

[11716 1936 THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND
Drawings for Nature Students
(Animals and Birds)
By NEAVE PARKER
XII

gamma Fig. 2 shows the underside of a wing, with
1710. 1 the coverts removed. Note how the edge of
1.1"“ 0' each feather overlaps, and is supported by, the
\q: stem of it’s neighbour. This formation is of
1 , 3i ‘. ‘ : \\ the greatest importance. On the downward
c3332; 3,» 7 \N : or lifting stroke the feathers are pressed
M d, \ t Seaman“ together to form an airtight surface, while on
903/533 \ \ 1>ytm5yLQ5 the upward stroke they are able to separate

Sm‘lm‘j “Watts “WEI-“m“ and allow the air to pass between them.

 

L.)
Bastardwtno 133:3}? NF)“
Primary . ‘0' l'f Iowéi\
Cox/eves ,9 // 9‘ tail-coverts \:\
~ \:

HIS month I am going to tell you

something about the plan, and uses, of

plumage. Fig. I shows the “ feather—
plan ” of a bird, with the wings folded. The
feathers which cover the shoulders are known
as the .raapalars, these merge into the feathers
of the back, and adjoin those of the wings.
The many covert—feathers protect the larger
ﬂight feathers of the wing and tail, and also
serve to perfect the “ streamlined ” character
of the bird. The wings have coverts on both
the upper and lower surfaces. Those, on the
upper surface, which cover the primary feathers
(see Fig. 2) are known as the primary—carats,
and those which cover the seaoadarz'er are
known as the recondary-aoverz‘r. These
secondary—coverts are overlain by the median-
aoverz‘r, which. are in turn overlain by the
lesser-rover“. On the underside of the wing
the coverts are again divided into the primary
and secondary groups.

Now compare Fig. I with Fig. I in the
previous article, and with Fig. 2 on this page.
This should enable you to observe how the
feathers are stowed away when the wing is
closed. The wing is drawn close to the body
by the shoulder and elbow joints, and is then
closed by being folded fanwise at the wrist.
The primary and secondary feathers are now
overlapping like the blades of a closed fan,
with the wrist representing the hinge. The
primary feathers lie beneath the secondaries
(see Fig. I).

212

I will conclude with a few words about the
character of the individual feather. The base
of the stem is formed into a pointed quill,

‘which is embedded in the skin. The upper

part of the stem is usually called the shaft, and
is four-sided and quite springy. The vane of
the feather is formed by two 222617;, one on
either side of the shaft. One web is usually
much wider than the other. Each web is
composed of barbs, which grow from the shaft,
and these barbs are held together by barbules.
The barbules spring from the barb in the same
manner as do the barbs from the shaft.

You will be able to ﬁnd more remarks on
this subject, and birds in general, in Nature
Study Groups (Sept, 19 35) and in chapter 12,
Book 2, of Tim Wonder/and of Nature by
Harper Cory (The Grant Educational Co.,
Ltd.) '

   
 

Shoulder ‘ /‘ / i'—A\\~\\\\ Fig. 2 o

.- /' r I IL‘Ihwu‘““\-
._ _, . . . 4 k. w..:\\\.,.
CCBDQ/ L, I. /‘/'I .p\ \‘\ '\\'\\\\\‘ \

/ i
'iﬁ j g / i >
/{//j/ 4 !
’\___./

Secondavces

/

  

(To be concluded.)

Behold t/Je merry mimtre/r of the mom,
T/Je .rwarming .rongrterr of 1/26 care/em grove.
THOMSON.

 

 

 

 

 




 

fume I936

‘ The National Council

 

THE ANIMALS’- FRIEND

for Animals’ Welfare

Animals’ Welfare Week Reports, 1936

The Rochdale Week.

OWING to the persistent attentions of
Jude—a black cat of no pedigree, of
strong character, and of a very loose habit

of life—who at the moment is not his usual
aloof and independent self but is craving
human affection, demanding to be caressed
and insisting on carrying on a loud and plain-
tive conversation about it all, it is extra—
ordinarily difficult to write about the Week in
Rochdale. However, for the moment, he has
been diverted so perhaps something can be
done, and anyway he reminds one that the
ﬁrst introduction of the Week in Rochdale
was to Paul—who has since turned out to be
“ Pauline ”—a singularly fascinating coal black
kitten, with mysterious and alluring eyes and
ways, who was just old enough to be making
his anxious mother’s life a misery at times by
his alert activity and skill in preparing am-
bushes, from which he hurled himself upon
her tail and neck with exasperating and un-
tiring frequency. But to come to the other
events of the Week.

As in previous years, Rochdale was to the
fore in the celebration, thanks to the work of
the local committee of which Mrs. C. H. Porritt
is the untiring and able secretary. There is
much that goes to the making of a successful
week in the way, of forethought, planning,
organisation, the creation of interest and good—
will, the raising of funds, and a lot more, and
the burden of all these falls upon the local
secretary and the members of the committee.
All this work is accomplished before the
special speakers for the Week arrive upon the
scene to carry through the prepared pro-
gramme, and in Rochdale it was well done.

Here the main work of the Week is in the
schools. Prior to the Week, the scholars are
engaged in the Essay and Poster Competitions,
and the awards to the successful entrants—
three to each school—-are presented at the
special Young People’s gathering in the
Champness Hall. This gathering is an annual
event at which the hall is ﬁlled to capacity
with 500—600 people—a happy, eager throng of
children and young people with a good sprink—
ling of adults, parents, teachers and friends.
On the walls of the hall are displayed the
posters designed by the scholars, some of them

213

showing undoubted ability in poster design.
The chair is taken by the Mayor of Rochdale
wearing his chain of office; .on the table
before him is the huge pile of some 90 odd
books, the awards for the poster and essay
work; these are presented by the Mayoress.

The proceedings open with the singing of
the “ Hymn for Animals,” composed by the
Rev. T. W. Taylor, the Chairman of the local
Committee; then follow the opening remarks
by the Chairman; an Animal Welfare play is
presented by the Heybrook senior scholars;
there are three or four short recitations and
two short addresses by the special speakers
who are in Rochdale for the Week—this year,
as last, Commander J. L. Cather and Mr.
R. H. Spurrier. The play was entitled “ The
Spirit of the New Age,” and once again the
Heybrook senior scholars, and those who
trained them, are to be congratulated on a
well chosen play and an effective production
in which all the members of the cast put up
a really creditable performance.

During the Week, talks were given by '

Commander Cather and Mr. Spurrier in 18
of the schools, where they were well received
by teachers and scholars ; addresses were given
by these speakers and by local friends at Sunday
Schools on May 5rd and 10th ; the local Toc H
unit asked for a speaker and a special address
was given at evensong in St. Aidan’s Church
on May 3rd. An extra event was the happy
gathering of Committee members, arranged
by Mrs. Porritt, at a cafe in the town at which
Commander Cather showed films of animal
and bird life.

On Saturday, May 9th, an American Tea
and Sale of Work was arranged by the Com-
mittee in the Town Hall ; followed by a Whist
Drive in the evening, as a result of which some
7550 was raised to meet expenses and for
carrying on the work of the Rochdale Com—
mittee, which includes the Cats’ Shelter, the
Dogs’ Licence Club, and the Milnrow Home of
Rest for Donkeys and Ponies—not to mention
goats and a lucky turkey rescued from the
Christmas market.

We offer our congratulations to Mrs. Porritt
and the Rochdale Committee; and our thanks
to Mr. and Mrs. Porritt for their hospitality; to
the members of the Committee, to the local

 

 




III,
J

r] ’
:, I.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Fr;~-:~.l=""'-—-—~ <.—;,-_» ~«r»-,-. :- ,

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Education Secretary, Mr. F. E. Holden, and
to the Heads of the Schools and the members of
their staffs for their courteous co—operation
and friendly welcome.

The three essays that follow are entries in
the Rochdale Competition—the subject being :
“ What do you think of Zoos, Circuses and
Performing Animals? ”

I

There are, in England, millions of people
who do not agree with the statement that all
caged animals are unhappy. I ﬁrmly believe
that they are. How can they enjoy them—
selves? These poor hapless creatures lead a
hard life in the circus ring—and if they fail to
do their best—woe betide them! It is not
natural for an animal to dance, or to act, or
to climb ladders. What they want is freedom,
freedom to do just as they please, to act as
they were meant to act, and to climb what
Nature has provided, and has taught them to
climb.

Animals hate to be stared at, to be laughed
at, and to be conversed about. Yet one
cannot help laughing at the comical antics of
the monkey, and the queer language of the
parrot. I suppose you have noticed how
“ fed—up ” the lions look. Now think it
over, wouldn’t you be bored if you had to be
under lock and key all day long? Yes, I think
you would, and so would I. These sad little
brothers of man are helpless. Piteously, they
plead that we may help them, to live a more
restful and comfortable life. This can be
easily obtained. With your help the animals’
world can be changed, and their burdens
uplifted. Those of you who are animal
trainers, teach them kindly instead of using
harsh words, and coax them gently instead of
using a whip. They will learn to love you
and will do all they can to help you. If you
are willing to become one of the animals’ best
friends, begin now by being a member of the
Animal \Welfare Society, and wear a badge to
show that you are an animal lover. Both the
animals and yourself will benefit by it.

BEATRICE WIDDUP.

II
A Zoo is a place where wild animals are
kept in captivity. The most successful
Zoo will give the animals, as far as possible,
the surroundings which they have been used

~to, also as much freedom to roam about as

possible. It is very cruel to keep big animals
in cages so small that they have hardly room

214

[m 1936

to turn around. It would be much kinder to
the animals and better for us, too, if all the
smaller Zoos were done away with, and we
just had one big National Zoo for each
Country. Sometimes the animals in the
Zoos are not well fed and become ill and die.
It is very cruel for people to pass unkind
remarks about the animals, or tease them,
when they know the animals cannot get at
them because of the bars. There are four
Zoos in England—~Belle Vue, the Tower in
Blackpool, Regent’s Park in London, and
Whipsnade. 'Regent’s Park and Whipsnade:
are the best of these Zoos. Whipsnade is
right out in the open country.

Circuses are very amusing to the people who
are watching them but not to the animals who-
are performing tricks. It is very hard for the
animals to perform tricks such as climbing
up a high ladder, jumping through a hoop,
eating at a table, and many others of this kind.
If you were to teach an animal by kindness.
and patience it would take months to learn an
easy trick. Those who train animals for
circuses often train them by cruelty and when
you see them performing it is only by cruelty
and torture that they have become able to do-
it. Circuses travel from town to town each
week and the animals have to be shut up in
small cages and this is most unhealthy for
them. A society has been formed to prevent
cruelty to animals—it is called the Animals"
Welfare Society, and it has already done a.
great deal to help the animals who cannot
help themselves, and give them happier lives.

MAY SEWELL.

III

You ask me, “ What do you think of zoos,
circuses and performing animals? I think
that there is a great amount of cruelty behind.
the scenes of zoos and circuses. It must be-
very uncomfortable for the animal that is being
trained. For the simplest offence that animal.
would receive a very good ﬂogging from its.
master. You can believe me that if animals
weren’t dumb and they could speak there:
would be some cursing and swearing at the»
zoos and circuses and if they would say, “ We
are going on strike and we are going to break
the whole show down if you don’t stop-
treating us so cruelly as you do now,” I would
have a good laugh out of it. If what I have:
just said came true and the animals got loose
and started by breaking doWn the whole place
and then going to the docks and boarding a-

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

fune 1936

Ship and kicking all the men into the sea and
then steering for Africa’s shore so that they
could have a life of their own, better than
living in a gloomy cage with iron bars to look
at all day, wouldn’t there be an uproar from
the people who own the zoos and circuses
and it would cause a lot of weeping and
wailing as well as thousands and thousands of
pounds lost in the bargain? But it would
serve them right I think, and I think every-
body will be with me except the circus and
zoo owners and those who like going to the
zoos and circuses.
FRANK LAWTON.

A Happy “ Animal Welfare Week ”
Celebration.

The Infants School at Gayhurst Road,
Dalston, was gaily decorated with ﬂowers
and with Animal Posters on Friday, May 8th,
when the little ones marched expectantly
into the Hall for their “ Animal Welfare
Week” celebration.

The Head Mistress (Mrs. Bowling), said a
few words to'the children, and then welcomed
the visitors, after which the children sang, in
their pretty, lisping, baby voices, part of the
hymn “All things bright and beautiful.”
A tiny child gave a little poem about “ The
Squirrel,” and another one told of “ The
Rabbit,” each with suitable actions ; there was
also a song about “ The Doves,” and another
poem about “ The Cuckoo.” These were
followed by a little demonstration entitled
“ Hurt no Living Thing,” in which the
children showed by actions what animal,
bird, or insect each one represented. (The
“grasshopper” only just missed a visitor’s
toe!)

One of the visitors gave a short talk on
“ How to be kind to our Pets,” to which the
children were most attentive, answering very
intelligently the questions about their pets
and what each did for their comfort.

The children’s eager faces showed that the
next item was “THE ITEM” for them; it
was entitled “ Our offerings to our Animal
Friends.” A small box was handed to the
speaker, who was. told that the children
wished the money in it to be used for helping
stray cats and dogs, or sick animals. They
had collected among themselves 65. 7%d.,
which will be taken to the local Animal
Clinic. Then the visitors were shown a fine
large “ cat—basket,” bought by the children
with their own money, (55.), and made by

, 215

_ note the

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

blind people. The children have only to-
ask for the basket to carry a sick or stray
animal to the Clinic—~it is their very own,
bought with their own money!

After a few words of greeting by another
visitor, a very happy time came to a close with
the singing of “ The Animals’ Hymn ” and
“ Grace.”

Well done, “ Gayhurst Infants! ”

Battersea Branch, N.C.A.W.

Animal \Welfare Week was very generally observed
in the Schools here, though outside speakers are not
now allowed by the L.C.C. The evidence of the ﬁne-
work of the Teachers was brought home to the Hon.

Sec. one day in a local bus, when a small boy of about .

seven proudly showed her his emblem, and instructed
her as to the making of “ a running chain ” for a dog ;
“ his teacher had told him,” he said! This was very
cheering to one who was then on the way to speak to.
schools elsewhere. The response of the clergy is.
improving, many Churches making quite a feature
of the Children’s A.\V.W. address.

Battersea has this year “ adopted ” Ilfracombe for
A.W.V‘C’. purposes, and has had a very kind response
from Clergy and others there. (Other branches please
“ adoption ” idea.) .

The Hon. Secretary, Miss Agnes L. Mason, has.
spoken to schools in Croydon and Dalston, and has
visited local Guilds in connection with A.W.W., and
is still booked for schools and Guilds in various places
up till September.

There is still very much apathy in Battersea among
people in general, but the Movement if growing
steadily, if very slowly !

Bram/63y. A.W’.W. was held for the second time in
Bromley and was organised by our local Hon. Secretary,
Mr. C. L. Jamblin. The chief event of the WEEK was a,
public Meeting which was well attended and created
much enthusiasm and interest. The speakers included
Captain E. MacMichael, Performing & Captive
Animals’ Defence League, Mr. Newman, The National
Anti—Vivisection Society, Mrs. Beddow Bayly, The
Animal Defence and Anti—Vivisection Society, Mr.
J. C. Sharp, The League for the Prohibition of Cruel.
Sports, Mr. M. R. Lavie Robinson, The People’s
Dispensary for Sick Animals, and Miss Helen Trevelyan,
Our Dumb Friends’ League. The Meeting was
presided over by Mr. W. T. Colyer, prospective Labour
Candidate for Chislehurst.

Other activities of the Branch included the display of
25 posters on the principal hoardings and the house to
house distribution of 4,000 leaﬂets. A Posters,
Drawing and Essay Competition was arranged and

this received the co-operation of the Director of

Education for Bromley. Altogether 21 very successful
effort for the second year.

Croydon. For the tenth year in succession the WEEK
was held in Croydon. The programme included
special Church Services on May 3rd. A Mass Demon—
stration in the Public Hall was preceded by a cinema
lecture on “ Animal Life ” by Mr. Harper Cory,
F .C.G.S. At daily parades and open-air meetings held
during the week the many aspects of animal protection
work were presented to the public and an Essay
Competition for children by consent of the Croydon
Education Committee was held in the schools.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

,,,,:..« .ze.;,_ __..r»:,' - ——->-* — ~> ,,, ~ ~— , ,

THE - ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Messrs. Kennards of North End again allowed a Stand
for propaganda and a collection to be made for the
Funds of Animals’ Welfare W’eek during the whole of
the WEEK. The WEEK concluded on May 9th with a
grand street procession.

Felixstowe. A Banner was hung across the main
street announcing the WEEK. A letter was sent to
the Press. Schools, teachers and clergy were circu—
larised and it is encouraging to be able to report a
better response from the latter. Prizes were given in
the Elementary Schools for essays, poems, posters, etc.
An empty shop in the town was kindly loaned and in
one window the posters designed by‘ the children were
displayed; these attracted much attention. Here also
was a further display of posters, a sale of fancy goods
and emblems and distribution of free literature. On
the Monday there was the Annual Jumble Sale in aid
of the Stray Cat Shelter; on Wednesday evening a
Whist Drive; on Friday evening a Public Meeting,
when Mr. E. Bridges \Y/ebb, General Secretary,
P.D.S.A., gave a most interesting talk on “ Animals
of the Poor in Many Lands.” A display of Nature
Study Books was made at two of the local libraries.

Haddersﬁe/o’. Here a well-attended meeting arranged
by Miss E. Gledhill, the Hon. Secretary, and the
Huddersﬁeld Committee, was held in the Victoria Hall
on May 15th. Mr. R. Wood was in the chair and

introduced the speakers—Commander Cather and Mr. _

Robert H. Spurrier. Wild Life Films of the Canadian
National Parks were shown and the interest of the
audience was held throughout the proceedings. In
moving a vote of thanks, Mr. Heeley strongly com—
mended THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND to the audience; the
vote was seconded by Mr. Deane. Much literature
was distributed during the week.

N ottz'ng/yam. An empty shop was secured and posters
dealing with various aspects of animal exploitation
were prominently displayed. Leaﬂets were distributed
free and seven different petitions were offered for
signature. Over 500 persons Visited the shop during
the course of the WEEK and many expressed themselves
as being keenly interested. Prior to the WEEK the
Bishop of Southwell had been asked to recommend
the WEEK and its objects to the attention of his clergy.
. This he kindly did in a sympathetic paragraph printed
in his Diocesan Magazine and a circular letter was
sent to 127 clergy and ministers of all denominations.
The schools had been supplied with literature through

 

jnno 1936

the local Education Ofﬁce. The Press gave good
notices in both morning and evening papers. Unfor—
tunately, owing to the illness of the Treasurer, who
has hitherto undertaken the arrangements for talks
and lectures, this side of the work was not taken up
this year. We learn with satisfaction, however,_that
several Head Teachers ﬁlled in the gap themselves by
addressing the children in their own schools.

Southampton. The Animals’ Welfare Week activities
here, writes Mrs. Caws, the Hon. Secretary, were on
the same lines as last year. An afternoon meeting,
which was well attended, was held at Bittern Manor
House, addressed by Mr. J. Blackhall, Hythe. The
Chair was taken by the Rev. Maxwell 0. Janes. An
evening meeting at the Theosophical Lodge room was
addressed by Mr. Leslietine, F.T.S., who gave a most
inspiring talk. The meeting unfortunately was very
badly attended. Many schools were visited during
the WEEK and talks given to the children. Literature
was distributed and appreciated.

Warrington. Mrs. M. L. Willett, Hon. Secretary of
our Warrington Branch, writes : “ We have had a very
strenuous time and I feel sure have aroused more
interest than ever; the work becomes heavier than
ever each year, so I feel more encouraged.” The Press
reports : “ Warrington is becoming more ‘ animal—
minded ’ if one considers the increased interest which
has been taken this year in Animals’ Welfare Week.”
The schools in the Borough were supplied with litera—
ture urging kindness to all animals, and schools in the
surrounding districts were Visited by persons interested
in the welfare of animals. Mrs. Willett visited Marlﬁeld
School and visits were paid to other educational
establishments, shops, Post Offices, cafés, the Y.M.C.A.,
the Y.W.C.A., bus depots and the markets, where
posters and leaﬂets dealing with animals’ welfare were
exhibited. Mr. Harold Gray gave a short address on
animal welfare at the Friends’ Meeting House on
Sunday, and 60 ministers in the town and district were
asked to make special references to the subject at their
Sunday Services. The strenuous campaign conducted
by Mrs. Willett and her band of workers throughout
the week was most successful and will no doubt bear
fruit in the better treatment of the animals in the future.

Press Cuttings have been received in from many
other towns, where Animals’ Welfare Week has been
held. We hope to receive reports from these in time to
publish in next month’s ANIMALS’ FRIEND.

 

 

Photo by]

For one of m was born a twin,

 
   

U. L. Cather

And not a you! knew wbicb.

216

 

 

 

-‘




 

 

 

 

 

[11716 1936

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

The Scottish Society for the Prevention of Vivisection

Hon. Secretary: MISS IVORY (to whom all communications should be addressed.)

Oﬂees: EDINBURGH-«Io QUEENSBURY STREET.

GLASGOW—I47 BATH STREET.

THE SUPPLY OF ANIMALS FOR VIVISECTIONAL LABORATORIES.
By HARVEY METCALFE.

IN a recent case before a police court, a man
was sentenced to terms of imprisonment
and ﬁned for defrauding poor people by
advertising for dogs, cats, rabbits, etc., and
not paying for them when sent. At the man’s
home was found a list of hospitals, laboratories
and vivisection institutions, and little doubt is
left as to the ultimate destination of animals
when their owners had parted with them.
The trade in animals for vivisection appears
to be a growing one. The usual means of
supply is the shop owned by the animal trader,
or “ naturalist.” Other channels of supply do
exist. There is a demand for tame rabbits,
and the price paid by laboratories varies from
25. 6d. to 55. for each animal purchased;
usually they are bought in batches, 35. 6d.
being a common price. Some, bought by the
laboratories, already show signs of disease. I
have seen them being used in lymph, cancer,
nephritus and pregnancy experiments. The
cancer experlments were tar exper1ments 1n
some cases, and, in others, the appendices of
the rabbits were outside the abdomen with
radium tubes inserted in the abdominal
incisions, while in the nephritus experiments
the rabbits had very sore patches on their
backs, and their urine was frequently tested.

Wild Rabbits for the Laboratories.

Now the supply of rabbits has gone a step
further, and a new victim added to the long
list of laboratory animals. An advertisement
in the British Medical journal, May 2nd, 1936,
reads as follows :

Wild Liz/e Rabbits caught daily for

Ply/riologieal War/é. Price gos. per

dozen, carriage paid.

Orders promptly executed.

The demand is obviously there, and the
supply is not lacking. It requires little
imagination on the part of any humane minded
person to follow the passage of the wild
rabbit to the vivisectional laboratory. There
is the catching of the rabbits, the journey from
Wales to London, Manchester or Glasgow,
and the treatment in the laboratories which

217

may be grievous. I have seen two vivisectors
do a major operation on a rabbit under
Certiﬁcate B. Bad as many experiments are,
the worst part of vivisection is that of keeping
the animal alive after the experiment.

In this advertisement in the Britir/i Medical
Journal one is face to face with the cruel
victimisation of one of the most helpless and
lovely animals in nature. Their acute sensi-
tiveness and very timorous nature makes
them objects of mercy to all but the most
hardened. They suffer all too much without
being transported to the laboratory, which,
for all I know, may not be an innovation at all.
For one piece of silver (half-a—crown, carriage
paid) they leave the burrows of the green
ﬁelds of God for the frightening apparatus of
the modern vivisectional laboratory, and,
while the law remains as it is, one can only
work against it and pray to Him who is Lord
of all wild things.

PARLIAMENT AND THE GIN TRAP——
Continued from page 208.

favourable or otherwise, when this article is
printed. ULAWS has been in close touch
with the mover and with others concerned,
and whether or not success is achieved much
good will have been done in giving publicity
to the cruelty of trapping. A memorandum
was printed for the occasion by ULAWS and
the R.S.P.C.A.‘ jointly, and copies can be
obtained by writing to either of these bodies.
It sets forth the economic case against the gin
trap succinctly.

It is necessary to remove all spurious econo-
mic objections to the abolition of the gin.
When this has been done some vested interests
will remain, but it is hoped that they will be
sufﬁciently weakened to enable the public
conscience to , prevail. The plea of the
friends of the gin trap is indistinguishable in
principle from the pleas which may be urged
for the bombing of the Red Cross. The
vested interests must be sacriﬁced in favour of
right dealing.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

fume 1936

'The Humane Education Society

80, MOSLEY STREET, MANCHESTER.

Presidmi: GEORGE ARLIss.

Sammy: ARTHUR MIDDLETON.

London Centre: MISS M. E. TURNER, Vice—President (former Inspector of Schools).
MISS BERNARD, Hon. Sec. ‘

Successful Welfare Week Campaign

HE Teachers and children have again

co—operated in every way possible. In

response to the specisl letters and
leaﬂets, sent out by the League in thousands,
requests for tens of thousands of Animal
Welfare leaﬂets and Humane Education
Literature poured in from all quarters. The
funds and resources of the League have been
exhausted in the good work, but its helpers
(tired out with many duties) are encouraged
with the practical results noted. Special
Gifts are urgently needed to continue the
Campaign and to enable the League to keep
pace with demands.

In company with many other workers in
the Movement the League’s Secretary, Mr.
Arthur Middleton, was kept hard at work,
visiting various Centres, Schools, and Adult
Meetings.

Annual and Public Meeting

Scouts, Guides, School Children, Parents
and Public attended the meeting in The
Memorial Hall. To the great regret of every—
one, Frances Lady Warwick was overtaken by
illness on the way from Essex to Manchester
and was compelled to break her journey at
Warwick and unable to resume it.

Mr. George Grimshaw, a well known
worker in social, religious and welfare move-
ments presided and gave a most interesting
address, telling of his visit to Mussolini.

The Headmaster of a well-known school in
Derbyshire, Mr. G. W. Swaine, presented an
1nstructive outline of the right way to educate
young people in Citizenship and Humane
Character Development. He brought some

delightful and interesting exhibits from his

school.

Rev. C. W. Townsend, Minister of the best
known and most progressive Chapel in the
North gave a ﬁne intellectual address on
moral and religious training in connection
with Animal Welfare, Peace and Goodwill.

Miss C. E. Andrews, Minister of The Church
of the New Age, Mr. James Hough, Secretary

of The Vegetarian Society and Mr. Middleton,
Hon. ‘ Secretary Manchester and District
Animals’ Welfare Council, also spoke.

The following report from the Manchester
Guardian is worthy of wide notice.

HUMANE EDUCATION.

At the annual meeting in the Memorial Hall,
Manchester, yesterday, of the Humane Education
Society, the report presented by the secretary (Mr.
Arthur Middleton) recorded a year of constant activity
for the furtherance of the society’s objects, and referred
to the valuable co—operation of teachers throughout
the country. Mr. W. J. Thorne presided.

“ An examination of the general humanitarian
outlook and practices of a hundred years ago, compared
with those of to-day,” the report stated, “ shows quite
clearly that people are now more sensitive to .human
and animal suffering. There is a growing conscious-
ness of the rights of others.” With regard to the work
in the schools, the society’s lecturer had visited a large
number of them. For the lectures excellent timing
arrangements were drawn up by directors of education
and teachers, and in some districts three to four schools
a day were visited.

By request the society had given a number of lectures
to different organisations on the inﬂuence of ﬁlms, a
broad, comprehensive survey being taken of the
educational and social value of the cinema and its
powerful inﬂuence for good when the right kind of
ﬁlms were shown. Careful observation, along with
study of reports from many quarters, showed that
stimulus had been given by good ﬁlms to humane work.

Mr. George Arliss, who, the secretary said, showed a
keen interest in humane work, whether in England or
in Hollywood, was re-elected president of the society.

Frances Lady Warwick was to have spoken at a
public meeting held in the evening, but was unable
to be present through indisposition. Mr. George
Grimshaw, chairman of the committee, who presided,
expressed regret at the action of the Manchester City
Council in referring back to the Parks Committee the
committee’s recommendation that for an experimental
period no action be taken against persons unleashing
dogs in large open spaces of a number of speciﬁed
parks.

Mr. G. R. Swaine, head master of Kingsmoor
School, Glossop, said that so long as we followed the
practice of awarding prizes to children for work and
inﬂicting punishment for wrongdoing, so long would
we not have a humane adult generation. In his school
they did without punishments or rewards, and to
people who might ask if, as a consequence, the school
was like a bear-garden, he could answer at once “ No.”
The discipline in his school was very good indeed, and
good in more senses than one, because it was the
discipline bred in the children themselves.

We would never get a humane world until we got
disciplined people in it. Schools must be places where
children would themselves learn self-control.

218

~vmﬁsvm.”

 




a;

 

 

 

ﬁme 1936

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

The League for the Prohibition of Cruel Sports

Secrelaglz J. CLIFFORD SHARP, 7, Victoria Street, Westminster, S.W.I.

Animals’ Welfare Week

RIOR to Animals’ Welfare Week the

Secretary of the League wrote to all

Honorary Secretaries of Animals’ Welfare
offering literature, and many acceptances were
received.
_ At Brighton the League engaged a literature
stall for the week in the Animals’ Welfare
Exhibition, and the Secretary gave a lantern
lecture. A representative of the British
Field Sports Society from London and other
opponents were present, and their contentions
that the abolition of hunting would mean the
extermination of wild animals by shooting,
trapping and poisoning were effectively
answered.

At Croydon the Animals’ Welfare Committee
kindly placed their shop at the disposal of the
League for one day, and the Secretary spoke
in their open-air forum. On Saturday after—
noon the League was represented in the
annual street procession.

The Secretary also spoke at a Public Meeting
held under the auspices of the Bromley
Animals’ Welfare Committee.

During the Week many leaﬂets were
distributed, new subscribers enrolled, and
signatures to the petition obtained, and there
was evidence of an increased interest in our
question which is most encouraging. To all
who helped to promote the Cause we extend
our most grateful thanks.

Otter-hunting

The fox and hare-hunting season had scarcely
ﬁnished when otter-hunting commenced in
several parts of the Kingdom, and already
“ record ” hunts have been scored.

We fail to see the attraction of this “ sport ”
as it does not involve equitation, and a more
comprehensive vista of the beauties of the
countryside could certainly be obtained during
the course of a ramble. In fact, after a
perusal of the various reports describing hunts
of several hour’s duration and involving the
“ baiting ” (no other word Can describe the
eviction by terriers) of otters and their sub-
sequent mobbing to death, we are forced to
the conclusion that otter—hunting was ade—
quately described by a fox-hunter as “ the

sport of the man who is lost when he is not
hunting something.”

One cannot comprehend the state of mind,
or of heart, of the person who can derive
pleasure from such scenes, and the fact that
many of the devotees of this “ sport ” are
“ gentle—folk ” who would scorn to ill—treat a
domestic creature proves the adverse moral
effects this practice has upon otherwise
kindly people.

We have issued a new otter—hunting leaﬂet
which is being circulated in country districts,
and we should greatly appreciate the co—
operation of readers of the “ Animals’ Friend ”
in thus exposing this scandalous “ sport.”

Mayor Denounces Cruel Sports.

At the annual meeting of the Colchester and
District Branch of the R.S.P.C.A., held in the
Town Hall, Colchester on April 22nd, the
Mayor (the Rev. F. E. Macdonald Docker),
dealing with fox—hunting, said that this
seemed to him to be a form of cruelty which
he would like to see stopped altogether by
legislation. The Mayor added that also
lamentable, in his judgment, was the hunting
of the carted deer. What kind of pleasure
people could ﬁnd in that passed his compre-
hension. He supposed there was in human
nature something of what they called the
“blood lust,” which was excited at times,
but he hoped, in God’s goodness, the day
would soon come when they would all be
regenerated, and that animals would share in
the blessings of the kingdom of God.

Those who have for many years been
agitating for justice for all animals will be
encouraged by this denunciation. It is the
more significant as it was made from an
R.S.P.C.A. platform in the heart of a tradi—
tional hunting district.

Newcastle Group Formed

A Working Group of the League has recently
been formed at Newcastle—upon—Tyne and
Miss DorothyM. Lacey, 80, St. George’s Terrace,
Newcastle-upon—Tyne 2, the Honorary Dis-
trict Representative, will be very pleased to
hear from readers of THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND
who are interested.

219

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE AN IMALS’ FRIEND

[11716 I936

.Pit Ponies’ Protection Society

H072. Secrez‘my: D. JEFFREY WILLIAMS, 82, Boundary Road, London, N.W.8.

Underground.

NE who has had much to do with the

employment of ponies below ground

said to the writer recently that on bringing
a pony to the surface after a long spell below
ground, it was usually kept in a dark stable
for three days so as to enable it to accustom
itself once again to what he called “ white
light.” It is a painful experience to a pony
to come to the blinding glare of daylight after a
long period of work underground. Those
who have seen the mad galloping of horses
and ponies let loose in a field soon after they
have been brought up to the surface—during
for instance, a protracted mining dispute——
will fully appreciate the acute discomfort and
pain that must be endured before the eyes can
adjust themselves to daylight.

This is only one of the many factors which
militate against the so—called “ happy condi-
tion ” often claimed by apologists in regard
to pit ponies. Heat and dust in many deep
mines are also factors of great importance.
Working in clouds of dust when the tempera-
ture is very high, in a confined space, can never
be agreeable. The working of ponies for
two shifts on end for any length of time in
such conditions is a real hardship. Besides,
ponies who are double—shifted for a period
of time get out of condition, and are liable to
break down under the strain. It is uneconomi—
cal as well as cruel to allow double—shifting
at all. Yet the law does not limit the working
hours of horses and ponies below ground.

The question of work done by ponies in
mines must be considered in relation to all
these things,——to the general conditions in
which they live and work: the darkness that
is absolute, the foul air, dry food, a grossly
unnatural underground environment, where
the only growth ever found is a kind of fungi
on the wooden pit props. Such an environ—
ment, such an imprisonment, perhaps for
years on end, is a violation of the animals’
instincts. The ponies’ work must also be
thought of in connection with such adverse
circumstances as steep and difﬁcult roadways
along which heavy loads are pulled, often for

 

, I

long distances; it must be considered in
relation to drivers who may be quite unused
to ponies and untrained and unskilled and
subject to ﬁts of temper or anger, and also in
relation to drivers who are far too young to be
in charge of ponies above or below ground;
in relation to low roofs that are always a
menace below ground, to roads that are badly
laid or have been thrown into an unfit state
owing to an upward pressure of the “ ﬂoor ”
at any part of the roadway, or because holes
have been dug to allow a pony to pass under
low roofs without rubbing his shoulders and
back. It is in relation to such circumstances
as these that we must consider the life and
work of a pony underground. These factors
are not the only ones to be taken-into account,
but these are enough to show how distressing a
pony’s condition may become at any moment.
When one considers that the boy drivers in
many mines are paid by results, there is an
added risk and a possible aggravation of the
many ills a pit pony is liable to suffer. The
following case of brutal treatment reported
in the Norfbem Dispatch April 29th, 1936
lends point to what is said here. It is high
time that sensitive creatures should be saved
from even the risk of such treatment under—
ground.

ALLEGED CRUELTY TO A PIT PONY.

Alleged to have struck a pit pony with a 5%ft. plank
and causing severe injury to its mouth, John Punshon,
of 30, Middle—street, Nettlesworth, was at Durham
to-day ﬁned £5 when charged with cruelty.

Mr. F. V. Jackson, prosecuting for the Charlow and
Sacriston Collieries, Ltd., explained that in the North-
East second seam of Kimblesworth Colliery on 15th
April, an overman saw Punshon in the act of striking a
pony across the head with the plank. When cautioned
about it the accused said that he did not care if he killed
the animal, and when told to go home he threatened
witness.

George Stead, head horse—keeper of the colliery,
gave evidence in that he examined the pony after the
incident and found that two front teeth had been
broken. It was bleeding heavily at the mouth and there
was a severe cut in its upper lip.

Punshon admitted having struck the pony but denied
having broken the teeth or causing the wound in the
animal’s mouth.

220

 

 




 

 

 

june 1935

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Performing and Captive Animals’ .Defence League
Hen. Direeior: 17, Buckingham Street, Adelphi, London, W.C.2.

A New Departure.

THE League was invited to send a speaker
to address a Chapter of Clergy. This

is, it is believed, an entirely new
departure.

The meeting took place at St. Peter’s,
Thanet, and.the subject was “ God, Man and
The Animals.” The Revd. Percival Smith
presided, the meeting having been arranged by
the kind ofﬁces of the Rev. W. A. R. Ball,
Vicar of Ramsgate, and the Rev. A. W.
MacMichael, Vicar of Minster.

The Hon. Director pointed out that
Retribution must of necessity be visited upon a
nation whose rulers deliberately allowed
secret cruelties to ﬂourish after such had been
duly enquired into at the taxpayers’ cost. He
proceeded to prove that a primary duty of the
clergy was to advocate the protection of God’s
animals and that the traffic in Performing
Animals must be put an end to without delay,
if the nation were to avoid war.

The Clergy evinced great interest and were
most anxious to know how best they could

help. ‘

Animal Welfare Week.

.Monday, May 4ib. The Hon. Director spoke
at Youth House, 250, Camden Road, to a
highly intelligent audience of young people
who were most sympathetic.

W’edneedeyx, May 62fb. A-large audience of
children and adults at Brighton, presided over
by our old friend H. J. Massingham, listened
ﬁrst to Capt. MacMichael and then to that
delightful parson Henry Thompson. Mrs. Shaw
Phillips presided at the League’s Stall.

Tbarrday, May 72‘b. Mr. Fred Messer, J.P.,
M.P., presided at a meeting in Letchworth
where Capt. MacMichael’s subject was “ The
Only Practical Way to Stop War.”

Friday, May 82%. Capt. MacMichael spoke
at Bromley. There were six other Speakers,
each of whom were allowed 15 minutes, and a
further five to answer questions. Splendid
discipline, but just about 5 minutes too short
for a conclusive case to be made out. The
Hon. Director showed how Animals, Trainers,
Showmen, The Authorities, and The Public at

221

large would beneﬁt from a law prohibiting
performing animal turns.

Mr. W. T. Colyer made his mark as an

admirable chairman for Humanitarian meetings.

The League has attended on Mills’ circus
at Tonbridge, Miss Aglionby making the
necessary arrangements. At Cheltenham,
Mrs. Whittard did marvels in the short time
available. She worked indefatigably and had
the League’s placards posted all over the town
and in an empty shop window.

The League has had some trenchant new
posters which the trade does not like. They
are 2d. each and it has plenty for distribution.

At Bath, on May I6th-I7th, the League sent
Mr. Florant to stir up trouble for Mills’ Circus.
Fifty posters on hoardings, hand—carts and
vans. Five thousand leaﬂets were distributed
house to house while Mr. Toms and other help—
ers of the B.U.A.V. kindly permitted the
League to use the propaganda shop they were
vacating“ Children volunteered to help and
altogether no small stir was made.

Mills’ Circus is going on to Weston-super—
Mare and to Exeter next month and to
Bournemouth. If any friends would like to
help the League to make known the facts
with regard to Performing and Captive
Animals the League will be very glad of their
assistance. It costs about £50 to do the job
really well—and every little helps.

The Dancing Camel.

The exhibition of performing animals as a means of
making money is not a modern practice. Nor is the
training of them by cruel methods. The Arab writes
John Leo, in his Dereription 0f Afriea, published at
Rome in 1526, gives an account of one method. In
this book he describes the early training of a dancing
camel. The young camel, he says, is placed for half
an hour in aconﬁned space, “ tbe floore wbereof ix bot
witb fire.” The trainer then beats a drum, and the
camel falls a dancing, not from any desire to keep time
with the beating of the drum, but, as Leo observes,
because of “ tbe bot pavement wbieb ejffendetb bi: feet.”
This training was continued for about a year, after
which time the camel was deemed ﬁt for presentation
“ unto z‘be pab/ieke view of tbe peep/e, wben ar bearing tbe
neyre of a drum, and remembering tbe lime wben be trade
upon tbe botfloore, be prerenz‘iy fa/[etb a dancing and leaping :
and :0, me being turned into a kind of nature, ye perpetua/[y
obsernetb tbe same eim‘ome.”

He also refers to performing birds and a performing
ass. E. G. B.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

fune I936

The National Society for the Abolition of Cruel Sports

Hon. Seereimy: BERTRAM LLOYD, 4 Tavistock Square, London, W.C.I.

Hare Hunting

HE new volume of the well—known

Lonsdale Library (Deer, Hare and Offer—
lynnz‘z'ng, By various Authors, London, 1956,
155.), includes besides the hunts mentioned
in the title several interesting minor forms of
blood-sport. It is thoroughly up to date
and, from the sportsman’s point of view,
authoritative; and hence it deserves careful
reading by all opponents of sport. A reviewer
in T/ae Timer Literaiy Supplement (2/5/1936)
remarks delightedly that the authors have
supplied “ a frank answer to those, less
unbiassed, who suppose every hunting-man
to be obsessed by a blood-lust mania.” It is
doubtful, to say the least, whether many
humanitarians seriously believe in this “ blood—
lust mania ”—though, on the evidence, they
have a perfect right to believe that the average
Sportsman’s main object is to slay.

“ Beagling,” writes the Master of the
South Herts Beagles, “is a form of
recreation and health—giving exercise . . .
the like of which exists in no other
form . . . the kill is just the conclusion,
almost a regrettable one, to a day well
spent.”

This is beautifully expressed, but we may
well wonder whether the Hunt would be
satisfied to omit just this conclusion. We
seem to have heard frequent references by
sportsmen to “blank days.” If the kill is
really “ almost regrettable,” how downcast
must the boys of the Ampleforth College
Beagles have been at the end of the hunting
season, 1954-5 ! An account of their exploits
in The Snowing Timer (4/ 5/ 1936) states that the
College pack hunted on 54 days (only one of
which was “ blank”) and killed 42 hares
during the season, while “ one brace was run
to ground.”

A Woman Master of Beagles prevents
Blank Day

It may be that the Master of the South
Herts Beagles would deem the conclusion
of the following incident, graphically described
in The Leieerz‘er Evening Mail (8/ 1/ 19 35), quite
regrettable. In any case it provides interesting

reading and perhaps throws some light on the
much discussed question of blood-lust which
so frequently leads to exaggerated statement.

A hare sitting in a tree and watching herself
hunted provided an amusing incident during
yesterday’s sport with the Thorpe Satchville
Beagles, following the meet at Burton Overy.

The hare, found near Great Glen, ran alongside
the brook, and after crossing the swollen stream
twice she disappeared.

Mrs. Otho Paget (the Master) made a diligent
search of the surrounding ﬁelds but in vain, and
she was just about to admit defeat when she
glanced up into a willow tree and there sat “ puss ”
apparently watching the baffled bounds.

The next problem was how to reach the pilot
and eventually Mrs. Paget waded nearly waist deep
through the water, after which the followers
assembled in time to see the “ spectator ” spring
down and make an unsuccessful bid for freedom.

’

“ Stonehenge ’ on Hare-hunting

With this it is interesting to compare the
remarks on the kill (this time with reference to
Harriers) by “ Stonehenge ” (J. H. Walsh) in
the classical Manual of Britirb Field Sports
(14th edition, 1875). Stonehenge was no
crank or sentimentalist, but a keen sportsman,
so that his words might well be pondered by
the authorities at Ampleforth College and
Eton College where the “ breaking-up ” of
hares by the boys is still ofﬁcially sanctioned.

“ The kill is generally . . . the most painful
part, because in the ﬁrst place the cries of the hare
are often piercing and piteous in the extreme,
resembling those of a child in agony; and the
hounds not being always allowed to have her,

the whip is obliged to be used at a time when they
least deserve it.”

Otter-hunting

Otter—hunting, we read in the new Lonsdale
Library Volume, is “ in reality the pursuit of a
genuine wild beast in an element native to the
quarry but foreign to hounds and terriers . .
the sporting odds are on an average more than
three to one in favour of the otter.” This is
an elegant deﬁnition but it leaves out the
most important factor making against the
quarry, namely, that besides terriers and
hounds, human beings are directing the hunt.
The author’s statement that the otter has a
more than three to one chance of escape, like
the yet more remarkable pronouncement

222

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

~

ﬁme 1936

made by the Secretary of the British Field
sports Society that “ of all the beasts of chase
the otter has the greatest chance of escape,”
must at once be challenged. They appear to
be completely disproved by the ofﬁcial ﬁgures
in Toe Year Book of Otter/Juntz'ng. The following
are the ﬁgures:
1932 I933 I934 1955
Number of Packs 25 26 24 24
Otters Found 90 5 907 807 709
Otters Killed 459 474 456 554
In 1935 the Hawkstone Otter-Hunt found
56 otters and killed 35, the East Lincs found 12
and killed 7, the Crowhurst found 21 and
killed 13, the Cheriton found 34 and killed 25
(of which 6 were females). From this it will
be seen that instead of less than 1 in 4 otters
being killed, as the Lonsdale writer suggests,
the average is really less than an equal chance.
That is to say, in an average of three years
eomz'demo/y more flea” ﬁfty per eem‘. of tbe otters
found were killed. The protracted nature of a
otter hunt is often noticeable. Thus the 19 34
report of the Northern Counties Otter-hounds
(Uniform, “ blue cap, blue coat, red waistcoat,
blue knickerbockers and stockings, button
with monogram ”) runs, “ A very good
season . . . Six hunts of over 5 hours, one
of 8 hours.”

The Moose Twins

HE moose twins appear to consist

largely of noses, ears and soft bright

eyes as they peek out from the under-
brush of their favourite thicket in the wilds
of Manitoba. It seems hard to believe that
such gentle little babes as these could grow
up as huge bull moose, monarchs of the
North American forests and swampy bush—
lands. But, as a matter of fact, even adult
moose are really mild, inoffensive folk.

Of course the bulls and cows must be
treated at times with careful respect. But
generally speaking the moose are the most
tractable as well as the largest of the deer people.
Easily tamed, they have been broken to
harness often. Probably in parts of America
the moose would have been domesticated
but for the fact that they sicken and die upon the
diet available in close captivity, which is
another argument to prove nature’s intention
that the wild folk should be left in their
natural freedom.

The moose babies, often twins and occa—

223

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

sionally triplets, are born in some sheltered
thicket late in May. Gaunt and ungainly,
long-legged and awkward, the infants lie
hidden at ﬁrst while mother stays near and
Visits them often. In a few days they are ready
for limited travel and what appears to them
as adventure. Mother moose wastes no time
in conducting them to the near—by swamp,
lake or river, for the moose is so at home in
water that he might almost be called amphi—
bious.

Soon the babes begin to supplement their
milk diet with the tenderest leaves and water
plants. A browsing animal, the moose seldom
feeds on grasses which indeed he ﬁnds hard
to reach without folding up his long front
legs. He nibbles upon trees and bushes,
but loves best the tender, juicy plants which
grow under water. The moose twins watch
their mother throw her rump in the air like a
duck, plunge her head down and come up
with a mouthful of tasty food. Then they
learn to do the same.

Upon the approach of danger, real or
fancied, the twins, if near water, plunge in
and submerge themselves, except for the
tips of their noses. Then they feel much
safer, especially
since mother is
standing guard on
shore,’ ears back
and hoofs pawing
the ground like an
angry horse. It
would be a per—
verted human mind
indeed that could
think of harming
so charming a little
family.

 

BULL MOOSE.

Bull moose ﬁght during the mating season. One
bull will trumpet his challenge—“ Oo-wah! ” It
sounds like a combined grunt and roar. A second
bull will answer the challenge and hurry through bush
and water to the ﬁght. When they sight each other
the bulls lower their antlers and charge head-on.
There is a crash as skulls and antlers meet, and you
might think that the animals had broken their necks.
Not they! They grunt, trot back a few yards and
charge again. Thus they continue until one or other
of them admits defeat. This he does by galloping
away, usually assisted by the Victor’s sharp antlers in
the rear. I have never seen moose ﬁght to the death,
and I do not think they struggle to this limit: they
are too wise for such conduct. ,

HARPER CORY.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

Correspondence

DOGS AND ROAD ACCIDENTS.

To tbe Editor of THE ANIMALs’ FRIEND.

DEAR SIR,——The proper control of dogs on the high—
ways is an important aspect of the traﬂﬁc problem, and
it is the duty of every dog-owner so to train and
discipline his canine friend that the risks of accident
shall be reduced to a minimum.

This League has just prepared two new leaﬂets. The
ﬁrst contains clear and concise instructions on the
training of dogs, and the second (which has been
compiled with the co-operation of the A.A. and R.A.C.)
gives much helpful advice to both motorists and dog-
owners in the event of a dog being injured in a road
accident.

Either or both leaﬂets will gladly be sent, gratis, to
anyone for the asking.

Yours faithfully, C. R. JOHNS,
Seoretaty, National Canine Defence League.

Victoria Station House, S.W.I.

“A HUNTING WE WILL NOT GO.”

To Me Editor of THE ANIMALs’ FRIEND.

:SIR,~——Mr. Harvey—James in his letter in your last
issue remarks (entirely without warrant) that he thinks
me “in error to say that we should concentrate
exclusively on the cruelty of hunting and ignore its
waste and its futility.”

Of course I neither wrote nor suggested anything so
absurd; nor can my letter to which he refers be
wrenched to that meaning. I certainly suggested our
cause did not stand to gain by the quotation of dicta
implying a real dislike of hunting, where the original
context and the personal background showed a very
different point of view.

No doubt Dr. Johnson was well aware of the futility
of hunting—as indeed he was of the vanity of most
humane pursuits. But to class him, without qualiﬁ-
cation, among the true opponents of hunting, as Mr.
Harvey—James did in his article in THE ANIMALS’
FRIEND of March last, is entirely misleading and hence,
in my View, dangerous.

Yours faithfully, BERTRAM LLOYD.

CHARLOTTE BRONTE A VEGETARIAN?

To t/Je Editor of THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND.

DEAR SIR,——It is always a pleasure to read of any
person of note carrying their progressive ideas
sufﬁciently far as to become a vegetarian.

In T/Je Life of Cbar/otte Bronte by E. C. Gaskell, I860,
a letter, written by a school friend of Charlotte Bronte'
to lVIrs. Gaskell, is quoted : “ She ate no animal food
at school.” Is there any other evidence of Charlotte
Bronté being a vegetarian?

Also I have seen it repeatedly stated that Thomas
Hardy was a vegetarian. Where is the evidence for
this? On the occasion of the Prince of Wales visiting
Hardy, it is said that a meat and potato pic was
provided.

Yours, etc.,
E. G. BARLOW.
Gt. Warford,
Cheshire.

fune I936

CATS o. BIRDS.
To toe Editor of THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND.

DEAR SIR,—-—I admit that to some extent man has
upset Nature’s laws with regard to cats. But I think
Mr. Henry J. Baylis makes a mistake when he says
Nature is not cruel. Examples that come to mind
are grief for a lost mate, starvation, and even momentary
panic before death. Ralph Hodgson has shown us
the dismal end of an old bull.

Nature generally ensures a speedy death, though.

there are exceptions to this for which man cannot be
blamed. Examples are other members of the cat
family, wild, the lion and the caracal cat, etc., which
have been known to play with victims before killing.
The hedgehog kills a snake by a series of bites; snakes
often swallow their victims alive; turkey buzzards
will pounce on opossums they know to be shamming
dead, pick out an exposed eye, and take a good bite
of the opossum’s ﬂesh; English birds will do this
with weakly sheep or new born lambs; wasps, etc.,
will repeatedly sting a catterpillar till the insect becomes
unconscious, and store up the living food supply for
their young. Then the bloodthirsty weasel family
kill for sheer love of killing.

In three cases I know, toads had their eyes picked
out by birds.

The human brain it capable of much more reasoning
power than the animal brain. I can say to a human
that he must not eat ﬂesh, explain why, and if he is
honest he must agree. The anatomical structure of
carnivorous animals is different from that of man who
was deﬁnitely intended for a vegetarian diet.

A world in which no animals are eaten by animals
is a far off ideal. (Query, what will happen when
carnivorous animals cease to eat other animals? How
shall we arrange for the keeping down of vegetarian
animals, and the extermination of insect “ pests ”
which left to themselves would multiply and eat up
all our foodstuffs?) I read somewhere of some sheep
that were brought up on a meat diet. That is wrong
and it is equally wrong to bring a cat up on a non-ﬂesh
diet. It is dictatorship. It is too sudden a change.
It must be done gradually and over many generations
of cats. We have a far stronger and easier case in
ﬁrst converting man.

Yours, etc., E. G. BARLow.

To t/Je Editor of THE ANIMALs’ FRIEND.

DEAR SIR,——I Was distressed to see in the May issue
of your magazine, the letter of your correspondent,
Mr. H. J. Baylis, relative to the subject Cats V. Birds.

What grieves me is the fact that the cat should be
singled out amongst animals as being especially cruel.
I love all animals but in justice to the catI must point
out that other animals, even dogs, sometimes worry
and kill other creatures. As for man himself, he is
the cruellest of all the animals and with least excuse.
Mr. Baylis says that food is prepared for cats and they
are much petted. I say that I go scarcely a day without
coming across some poor homeless or unwonted cat
which seems to beg wistfully for my friendship in a
friendless world. The cat has many enemies much
stronger than herself. My own cats, originally
derelicts of the streets, never bother the birds which
come daily to my garden to be fed.
my life with cats in my home and ﬁnd them gentle,
affectionate and interesting creatures.

Yours truly, VERA L. WAREING.
298 Stockport Road,
Denton, Manchester.

224

I have lived all .

 

 




,- avg” \-
ML“ -- , ..
‘ J

 

 

ﬁme 1936

THE PROBLEM OF LETHALLING.
To Me Editor of THE ANIMALs’ FRIEND.

DEAR SIR,—I am glad to note the interest apparently
roused in “ A Friend of Animals ” in regard to
Nembutal.

I do not propose to dilate on Nembutal here and now.
Suffice it to say that I have seen it in action practised on
cats and dogs and I consider that used in expert hands
it has tremendous possibilities. I am not at liberty to
say more at present.

There is no need, however, in acclaiming a new method
to overdo repudiation of the old——every rung of the
ladder of progress is useful—and the Snow boxes,
which though now getting superannuated where dogs
are concerned, have done magniﬁcent work in the
past. “ A Friend ” clamours for “ some simple
fool-proof lethal box that does not suffocate animals.”
Blame the fools by all means, but don’t slang the boxes.
The late Horace Snow himself, the inventor of the
patent, was a progressivist to the ﬁnger-tips and his
slogan always was: “ If anything better comes along as I
pray God it will, scrap the box at once and success to
its successor.” The boxes are specifically planned to
avoid suffocation, but the clear and simple rules have
been wilfully and disgracefully violated. “ A Friend ”
complains a cat took 20 minutes before it became
unconscious, and was told a dog took. much lOnger.

\V ill people never assimilate the fact that humaneness
in animal destruction does not necessarily depend on
speed? (20 minutes was certainly too long to induce
unconsciousness only.) You can have a slow painless
death (euthanasia) or a rapid painful one, e.g.,
prussic-acid, which means one or two minutes’ hell.
Fully 10 or I 5 minutes should be allowed to lethal a cat
and 20—25 for a dog.

Gentle, gradual asphyxiation is emphatically not
suffocation.

I have come to the conclusion, however, that dogs——
although not a vestige of suffocation need be present——

7 take the drug badly, and for them expert shooting

is to be recommended. For cats nothing is a serious
rival to expert lethalling, but it must be expert. Dogs
differ from cats fundamentally.

Chemists en masse are ﬂagrant offenders where this
cursed greed for speed and consequent suffocation is
concerned, and so are the majority of vets. Finding a
certain local vet. was lethalling cats under an airless
glass bell with a soaked wad of chloroform pushed
under, I obtained for him a free 303. Snow lethal box
on condition he used it regularly and conscientiously,
which he faithfully promised to do. His elastic
conscience, however, did not prevent him from
nailing a piece of zinc firmly and completely over the
large airhole, thus cheating the unhappy inmate of all
the oxygen except the comparative thimbleful ﬁltering
through the small aperture.

Thus it is that the prestige of the Snow boxes has

. been tarnished.

“ A Friend ” suggests placing the Snow box “in a
much larger air tight box and plenty of chloroform in a
wire receptacle at the top of the inner box.” I am
afraid I must bluntly disillusion your correspondent
for the animal would probably be lifted out after death
with blood pouring from the nose (burst lung vessels).

Has he ever seen an up-to-date Snow box as turned
out by Preedy & Sons of Green Lanes, Harringay, with
the design giving abundant ingress of oxygen to

THE AN IMALS’ FRIEND

dilute a minimum (a teaspoonful as a start for cat and
tablespoon for dog) of chloroform?

If not, I would suggest he reserves his well-meant
but risky criticism until he has seen me use the Snow
box on cats ; and I should be happy to send him direct,
if address is furnished or through your office, my own
two pamphlets, viz., “ The Problem of How to Destroy
Dogs and Cats ” and “Are Lethal Boxes for Dogs
Satisfactory P~A Plea for the Pistol”; besides the
pamphlet by Miss Violet Philpin on Nembutal.

M. DUDLEY WARD.
15 Upper Westbourne Terrace, \W .2.

FUR FABRICS.

To [be Editor of THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND.

DEAR SIR,—-I was interested in J. S. Douglas’ letter
re trapping, etc., and wish to state that “ the difficulty
of arranging her winter outﬁt, ” mentioned by the lady
correspondent, is purely z'Magz'naIy. I speak from
personal experience as one who has worn neither furs
nor feathers for more than twenty years. There is
no necessity to wear either. There are plenty of warm
woollen materials for winter wear, and (if one must have
something like fur) plenty of beautiful fur fabrics.
I have never felt any want of warmth, although I am
one who feels the cold weather very keenly. Besides,
the trappers and police in Northern Canada very rarely
wear fur coats, I understand.

As to seal skin—~it is obtained under circumstances
of the most ﬁendish cruelty imaginable; while one
only requires to read Grey Owl’s description of the
killing of animals on fur farms to turn in horror from
having anything to do with such shocking atrocities.

The Duchess of Hamilton is surely of high enough
rank as a leader in the “ no—fur ” campaign. She has
been an example of a titled lady who has worn no fur
for many years.

No Sir! I repeat there is no necessity for any
woman to wear either fur or feathers.

Yours truly,
EDITH J. C. FAYLE.
28o, Cliftonville Road, Belfast.

THOSE PATRONIZING HUMANS.

SIR,—The fool philosopher says that animals are auto—
mata and prates about reﬂex action and the patroniz-
ing human says that they Show some signs of incipient
mental processes, whereas the truth is that their minds
work exactly the same as ours do, the invariable
sequence being Impression, Memory, Reason, Feeling,
Purpose and Expression.

1836-1956.

This centenary of the ﬁrst legislation against cruelty
to domesticated creatures is surely the psychological
moment for the ﬁrst legislation against cruelty to
undomesticated creatures.

S. CLAUDE TICKELL.
Vicar of Latton-cum—Eysey,
Cricklade.

225

 

 

 




 

THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND fune 1936

 

 

THE NATIONAL CANINE DEFENCE LEAGUE
The Pioneer Organization for the Welfare of Dogs

Gives skilled treatment to over 60,000 ailing dogs and other animals every year.
Pleads the cause of the chained or otherwise ill-treated dog, by the circulation of many
thousands of posters and leaﬂets every year.

Enlightens the public on all aspects of dog—welfare by press propaganda, cinema ﬁlms,
lantern lectures, essay competitions, etc.

S ee/és z‘o pro/ailrii ine ninireez‘ion of dogs.

Membership 23. 6d. upwards.

CHAS. R. JOHNS, Secretary,

VICTORIA STATION HOUSE. S.W.l

 

 

 

 

International

May and November next.

19 Melville Street, Edinburgh, 5

Journal
(Published by the Scottish S.P.C.A.)

The FIRST HALF—YEARLY NUMBER of this NEW MAGAZINE is NOW
PUBLISHED (64 pages text English, French, German, &c., fully illustrated coloured
art cover). Sent gratis on receipt of IS. 6d., being subscription for the issues appearing

of Animal Protection

LYNDESAY G. LANGWILL,
Hon. Editor.

 

BRIGHTON & HOVE

 

Ideal Boarding Establishment

Near Sea and Downs, generous
diet. Bedrooms, H. and C.
water, gas ﬁres.
Moderate Terrnr.

 

aniﬁ’: ’MR. & MRS. MASSINGHAM
I6 & I7 NORFOLK TERRACE, BRIGHTON

All Clai/dren 222/20 are inz‘erer/ed in Animals
would read

The Little Animals’ Friend

AN ILLUSTRATED MAGAZINE.
Price 1%d. post free.

Edited by JESSEY WADE.
STORIES, PICTURES, COMPETITIONS, ETC.
Valuable for School Use.

Annual Subscription, post free, IS. 6d.
Bound Volumes 1935. Price 1/9 per post
artistic and nz‘irnez‘iz'e Binding
THE HUMANE EDUCATION SOCIETY,

80 Mosley Street, Manchester 2.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The League for the Prohibition of Cruel Sports

7, VICTORIA STREET WESTMINSTER, SW.

President : HAMILTON FYFE

Secretary: J. C. SHARP. Hon. Treasurer: CANON F. LEWIS DONALDSON, M.A.

THE LEAGUE holds that it is iniquitous to inﬂict suffering'upon sentient animals for the
purpose of sport—“ pleasure! ” IT CONDEMNS fox-hunting, deer—hunting, otter-hunting and
hare—hunting, also rabbit- and hare—coursing. IT DEMANDS the substitution for the animal
of a Drag. IT PROTESTS against the “ blooding ” of children, and demands its cessation.
Annual Subscription 53., includes the Ofﬁcial Journal, CRUEL SPORTS, monthly.

 

 

 

 

 

226

 

 

 




‘

func 1935 THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND

 

 

HUMANE EDUCATION IN SCHOOLS AND
HOMES WILL END CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

OUR SPECIAL CAMPAIGN IS YIELDING REMARKABLE RESULTS
DONATIONS AND GIFTS ARE URGENTLY NEEDED TO EXTEND THIS PRACTICAL WORK.

LEGISLATION IS SLOW AND UNSATISFACTORY.

Please help The Humane Education Society to go ahead with effective and enduring
work for Horses, Dogs, Cats, Birds, and all Creatures in need of friendship
and protection.

ReportJ‘, Leaflets and journal gladly rent on application to :——-
The Humane Education Society, 80, Mosley Street, Manchester, 2.

GEORGE ARLISS, Preria’ent. . ARTHUR'MIDDLET ON, Secretary.

 

Hawksley Society for) the .Protection of Animals
and Birds in Italy

Hon. Director: LEONARD HAWKSLEY,
2 3 ALBION STREET, HYDE PARK, LONDON, W.2. Teleplzone : Paddington I520

The Society maintains inspectors at Carrara, Catania (3), Lucca (2), Taormina, and Viareggio, a free hospital
and dispensary. for sick animals of the poor at Catania, a free veterinary service at Carrara and Lucca, 10
drinking troughs in various parts of Italy and 50 tubs for watering animals in Rome, and has introduced and
controls humane slaughter in 16 3 municipal abattoirs and 43 private slaughter-houses. It has contributed
towards the erection of dogs’ homes at Catania and Como, pays the wages of kennel—men at Como and
Lucca, carries on newspaper propaganda for the protection of animals and birds, has put up scores of bird-
nesting boxes, and has presented over 28, 500 books and hundreds of coloured pictures to elementary schools
and public libraries. It has a deﬁcit of over 7£6,000, and must greatly curtail its much-needed work unless
generous help is speedily forthcoming. There are no Ofﬁce expenses in either England or Italy. Complaints
of cruelty seen in Italy may be made in English to Cav. UH. G. Niemack, Lucca, Signora Medici, 6 3 Corso
Trieste, Roma 36A, or Signora Caruso, 6 Via Ospizio dei Ciechi, Catania.

 

 

National Society for Abolition of Cruel Sports

4 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, w.c.1

Cliairnzan: H. G. CHANCELLOR. Hon. Treamrer: LORD OLIVIER. Hon. Secretary: BERTRAM LLOYD
Subscription, 23. 6d. Members subscribing 5-3. receive all publications.
Publication;

THE END OF A FO X-HUNT. ~
An account of the “ kill ” by the Students of Paton College. Id.

In Preparation : SHOOTING
By Mrs. Edward Clodd.

 

INTERNATIONAL LEAGUE TO PREVENT

THE EXPORT OF HORSES FOR BUT CHERY

(INTERNATIONAL LEAGUE FOR HORSES), 4 BLOOMSBURY SQUARE, LONDON, W.C.I
C/Jairrnan of Council : GEOFFREY H. GILBEY, M.C. Hon. Treamrer: H. E. BROWN
Hon. Director: BRIG.-GENERAL SIR GEORGE COCKERILL, CB. Secretary : MISS S. BAUM

MISS COLE’S GOOD WORK
MUST GO ON

Please enquire of the Society for full particulars and how you can help to prevent

 

 

 

the export of British horses for butchery abroad.

 

 

All subscription: and commanicationr for tile Magazine .rbonla’ be ada’rerred, “ Toe Editor, ANI'MALS’ FRIEND,
I Featherrtone Buildingr, Higb Holborn, London, W. C .I.”

227

 




THE ANIMALS’ FRIEND V f V f H _ [me 1935

LOST DOGS

Statement by the
Criminal Investigation Department, Edinburgh

 

 

N answer to enquiries by the SCOTTISH SOCIETY FOR THE

PREVENTION OF VIVISECTION in May, 1927, regarding the
recovery by the Police of lost dogs, which may have been Stolen
and Sold to Vivisectors’ Laboratories, the following reply was
received: “ The Police have no more right to enter Vivisectional
Laboratories tlfan they have to enter private places when making
enquiries for lost dogs, unless, of course, they are in possession of
a Warrant to search.”

THIS MEANS YOUR DOG IS IRRECOVERABLE

if it once enters a Vivisector’s Laboratory

AGITATE TO GET THE LAW ALTERED

 

 

HELP 0 UR CAMPAIGN

 

JOIN THE

SCOTTISH SOCIETY FOR THE
PREVENTION OF VIVISECT ION

Object: THE ABOLITION OF VIVISECTION

H072. Secretaij/ : MISS N. IVORY, 1‘0 22/190772 all communication; Matt/d be addressed

Of ic es: §EDINBURGH — 10 QUEENSFERRY STREET
GLASGOW — 147 BATH STREET

FUNDS URGENTLY REQUIRED

 

 

 

 

Printed» in Great Britain by The Surrey Fine Art Press, Cavendish Road, Redhill, Surrey, for the
National Council for Animals' Welfare, lFeathersrone Buildings, High Holborn, London, W,C_1,

 

 

 




