”Enclosure W1... 6 .. .t +2273:an “9"; 2".“320? H’F‘l’hi’

from the l 31gb ._

. ...:»r. gigianu.

,1

' > . , _ FEE 1819.4"
SOME ANIMAL STORIES. rmm

 

 

A KINDLY RAVEN. While staying at a hotel in Wiltshire a gentleman found one day
that his dog had been run over. While the injury to the dog’s foot
was being examined, a- raven, named Rafe, belonging to the hotel, was a concerned
spectator. As soOn as thJ€ dog was tied up under a stable—manger, Rafe not only visited
him but. fetched him bones, and attended upon him with particular. marks of kindness.
It appeared that the raven had been brought up with a dog, and that the affection
j between them was mutual. Rafe’s dog unfortunately broke his leg, and during the
time he was laid up the bird waited on him Constantly. One night the stable door was
by accidentclosed and the raven shut out, but the next morning the bottom part of the
door was so pecked away that in a short time longer an entrance would have been
effected. ' ~

THE RAT AND THE LAME DOVE. A gentleman who had a great number of doves used to

. feed them near the barn; at such times not only chickens
and sparrows, but also rats, came to'share the meal. One day he saw a large rat come
and ﬁll its cheeks with kernels of corn and run to the coachhouse, repeating this per-
formance several times. On investigation he found a lame dove eating the corn which

the rat had brought.

THE Doc AND THE CUSHION. One afternoon a rough—haired white Scotch terrier was

sitting in the dining-room of a house where he was a
visitor, apparently wondering when his two hostesses would take him for a walk. His
roving eye suddenly espied a fly walking up a window—pane, and he went for it at once.
He sprang on a chair that stood in the window and tried to reach it, but failed, jumped
down again and stood considering what to do. Suddenly he bounded across the room,
seized a sofa cushion, dragged it across the ﬂoor and on :to the chair, and, standing on
it,~reached his ﬂy. " ,

AN IMPRISONED STARLING. A starling had entered. a hole in a hollow ash «tree which

proved too small for its exit. Soon another starling was
seen at the hole trying to release its imprisoned comrade by seizing the captive just
above the beak, and pulling with its feet propped against the tree. Although frightened
away, the starling returned and renewed its efforts, which were eventually successful
in obtaining the release of its mate.

P.T.O.

 




AN ELEPHANT’S RUSE. An elephant taken in the jungle was led between two tame

ones a long distance towards its destination and had already
gone a good way, When, as night began to close in, it refused to go any further, ‘
apparently from weakness, and at last sank down to the ground, and seemed to give
up the ghost. One of the men in charge removed the fastenings from its legs, and
attempts were made to raise it. When all attempts failed, it was thought the animal
was dead, and the ropes were taken off the apparently dead body. ”But when the party
of men in charge had all taken their departure and had gone some Way on their route,
to their astonishment, the elephant started up with great alacrity and ﬂed away towards
the jungle, screaming at the top of his voice, as if in triumph at having outwitted his
captors.

A GALLANT Doc. A vessel was once driven on to the beach on the coast of Kent. The

surf was rolling furiously. Eight men were crying out for help, but
not a boat could be .got off to their assistance. At length a gentleman came on the
beach accompanied by his Newfoundland dog. He directed the dog’s attention to the
vessel, and put a short stick into his mouth. The dog at once understood his meaning,
sprang inUo the sea, and fought his way through the waves. ‘ He could not, however,
get close enough to deliver the stick; but the crew understood what was meant, and
they made fast a rope to another piece of wood, and threw it towards him, and then,
with a degree of strength and determination almost incredible, for he was again and
again lost under the waves, he dragged it through the surge, and delivered it to his
master. A line of communication was thus formed, and every man on board wa-ssaVed.

,{CATV AND EGGS., 'A cat name-d “ SCIISCL-i’f was particularly fond of raw .eggs,,this taste
' . dating from a day in her kittenhood when an egg had been accidentally
broken in her presence and she had been allowed ,to lick it up. She formed the habit
of breaking eggs for herself whenever she was left alone in a room in which eggs
happened to be; she used «to lift the egg with her curved forepaw till it, was well
over the rim of the bowl or dish; then, with a quick movement, she nossed it to the
ﬂoor and was soon beside it, lappi _ up the liquid as it ran from the shell. We repeat--
edly watched her at these procee ings when , she fancied herself alone; for, when" a
human being was present, she had always an air of not knowing the difference between

an egg and a doorknob.

Copies obtainable from :——- A -

The National Council for Animals’ Welfare
32, Queen’s Avenue, London, N.Io.

«gr. l _

P.T.O.

 




