‘
ULAWS Monograph 7b.

RAT-CONTROL

by
J. D. HAMER, F.I.C.

Consultant Chemist to the Orient Line

Published by
U L A W S

(The University of London Animal Welfare Society)
42, Torrington Square, W.C.l

 




 

 

 




 

 

 

Rat-Control

by
J. D. HAMER, F.I.C.

CONSULTANT CHEMIST To THE ORIENT LINE.

A paper read at a. meeting of the University of London Animal
Welfare Society at the College of the Pharmaceutical
Society on February 27, 1936*.

The war against rats has been waged by humanity for several
centuries. It has been known since ancient times that plague is
spread by the intermediation of rats. The Plague Research Com-
mission in India have by convincing experiments absolutely estab-
lished the fact that the rat ﬂea Xenopsylla Cheopis is the chief
means for the communication of plague from rat to rat. The
average capacity of a ﬂea’s stomach is about 0.5 cu. mm. so that from
a rat dying of septicaemic plague with possibly 100 million bacilli
per cc. the ﬂea would take in about 5 ,ooo bacilli. These multiply
in the alimentary canal so that the digested blood teems with
bacilli when reaching the anus. The ﬂea transfers itself to a
healthy rat, the bacilli are passed out with the faeces and are
rubbed into the puncture of the ﬂea bite bringing about infection.

It is recognised that there are ﬁve chief centres of bubonic
plague—where plague prevails always, and whence the disease
spreads periodically. They are the Eastern and Western Himalaya
region, the Altai Mountain country in Asia, the section surrounding
the springs of theNile in Africa, and Brazil.

Since the world war has provided a fertile ﬁeld for plague
extension, this dread scourge has moved slowly but surely closer
to Europe. Eastern and Southern countries bordering upon the
Mediterranean are more or less plague smitten. Asia Minor,
Persia and European Russia must also be considered plague in—
fested. The danger that the disease will spread to Central and
Western Europe therefore is not small. It has been observed that
plague spreads slowly among rats before cases of plague appear in
man. This insidious method of distribution is a serious matter
and can only be effectively checked by completely exterminating
the rats in order that bubonic plague shall not ﬁnd hospitable soil
in which to germinate. The rat is also an important factor as a
carrier and germinator of trichinosis. It has been established in

 

"' The object of the meeting was to explore the feasibility of selecting and
devising poisons with a View to humane considerations.

 




 

 

Denmark that rats play an important part in scattering the infec-
tious matter attending Foot and Mouth disease, so that it is
important to exterminate the rats on an infected farm before dis—
infecting the surrounding land and buildings.

As carriers of tuberculosis from farm to farm, from one animal
to another, rats are undoubtedly active. The rat as a carrier of
various dangerous contagious diseases is no doubt a far more im—
portant agent than we are at present aware of.

The losses by damage caused by rats to food and material
are estimated for this country alone at I5 million pounds a year,
so that in itself warrants the maintenance of an adequate army of
rat ﬁghters in the interests of all concerned.

The reproductive powers of rats is very great. A female rat
has a gestation period of 21 to 25 days, has 6 to 7 litters a year and
6 to 19 young to the litter. The natural life of a rat is 2% to 3 years.
A pair of rats and their progeny may average 862 per year. Pub—
erty is attained at the age of two months. It is of the utmost
importance in the mass destruction of rats that the attack is carried
out at all possible points with sufﬁcient force and in the shortest
possible time. Nature has armed the rat with excellent means of
defence, great intelligence and enormous fecundity. Without
conquering these, any rat war will be without importance.

The first steps in the war on rats should be the rat—proofing of
buildings. It is now generally recognised that rat—prooﬁng is the
only measure which can permanently reduce the rat population in
buildings or in ships. But unfortunately many people think of
rat—proofing in too restricted a sense. They consider that if a
building is to be rat—proof it must be so constructed that rats can—
not possibly gain entrance. Where such conditions are not found or
cannot be attained without great expense they give up any attempt
at rat —proofing as hopeless and resort to some method of rat —catching
which is only temporarily effective.

It is therefore desirable that there should be a clear and full
conception of what is meant by rat~proofing, and it may be per—
missible to take this opportunity of drawing attention to some
details which. are not infrequently overlooked.

The factors which make for an increase in the numbers of rats
are an ample and readily available supply of food and water and
the existence of good nesting and breeding places. Such conditions
result in a high birth rate and a low infant mortality, with a con—
sequent rapid increase in the rat population.

The owner of premises infested with rats should not make his
ﬁrst question “How can I catch these rats ? ” He should ask him-
self :—

I. How are rats getting into the premises? Can I stop them?

2. Are they nesting and breeding on the premises? If so,

where? Can I eliminate these nesting places?

3. How are the rats getting food? Can I stop them?

4. How are the rats getting water? Can. I stop them?

2

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

If the problem is approached on these lines it becomes much
more interesting and moreover, even if the solution of all the
questions cannot be discovered, the application of the remedy
appropriate to even one of them will probably give valuable results .

I will deal with these four questions in turn. It is, of course,
desirable to prevent rats gaining access to premises, but in the
ﬁrst place this is not always practicable, and in the second place
rats may enter even buildings which are structurally rat—proof,
concealed in packages of merchandise. It may be worth while to
draw attention to a few means of access which frequently escape
attention. Thus rats may enter through defective drains or through
old disused drains, the existence of which is unsuspected. In ware-
houses in England rats not infrequently gain access through a
drain in the basement which is provided to carry away water in
case of ﬁre. The trap of this drain usually becomes unsealed by
evaporation and it is better to have the drain situated in the area
outside with a pipe through the wall of the basement which can be
protected against rats by a grating. Broken ventilator gratings
below ﬂoor level are another means of access as are also broken
windows in the basement. Basement windows should be protected
by strong wire netting or expanded metal of not more than a” mesh.
Openings in walls for the escape of water during the washing down
of ﬂoors, or apertures for pipes in outside walls where a hole has been
cut considerably larger than is necessary also admit rats. Much—
worn thresholds of doors need attention. If there are black rats in
the Vicinity attention must be paid not only to possible means of
acess at or below ground level but to higher levels and even to the
roof. The agility of the black rat is extraordinary and he has been
known to climb very high buildings in the space between rain—
water down—spouts and the wall where he gains support by pressing
his back against the down—spout. Ivy and creepers on walls and
treesin contact with buildings form a means by which black rats
can reach the upper ﬂoors. In the interior of buildings black rats
have been known to pass from ﬂoor to ﬂoor up lift wells by actually
climbing the lift ropes. Finally, it must be remembered that black
rats will travel for considerable distances along roofs from building
to building.

It is therefore apparent that an investigation as to how rats
are gaining access to premises necessitates a most careful inspection
of the whole of the outside of the building. It is not usually difﬁ-
cult to decide by inspection whether a possible means of access is
actually in regular use by rats.

Even if buildings are of rat—proof construction they may be—
come infested with rats if nesting and breeding places are allowed
to develop inside and if there is food and water available. Rats
will nest in any place where they can remain undisturbed for several
weeks, the period of gestation in the rat being three weeks and the
young being weaned about a month after birth. Basement ﬂoors

3

 

 




 

 

should always be of concrete or other material impervious to rats,
and upper ﬂoors may be of concrete or of wood, but there should
be no ceilings with a space between the ceiling of the room below
and the ﬂoor of the room above as this provides an ideal place in
which rats may nest. There should be no hollow walls nor skirtings
behind which rats may live. These are, of course, defects which
would not be present in a really rat-proof building but even in a
properly constructed building rat-harbourage may develop in a
number of ways. It is not uncommon for small offices to be in-
stalled inside a principal building and for rats to nest beneath
their floors. Such ofﬁces or huts should be raised some I8” clear of
the ﬂoor and the space beneath must be kept clean. Moreover, they
should be set well away from the walls of the main building; other—
wise there will be a dead space in which rats may nest. If the ﬂoor
of the main building is impervious to rats, secondary ofﬁces, etc.
inside need not be raised from the ground but must be protected by
sheet metal all round at ground level in order to prevent rats gnaw—
ing their way underneath. If refuse or dunnage is allowed to ac-
cumulate in buildings rats may live among it. In ports it is often
necessary to store large quantities of working gear for ships in the
quayside sheds or warehouses. If this gear is in regular use and is
consequently being turned over at short intervals it is of no serious
consequence as any rats which attempt to harbour in it will be
disturbed before they can rear a family. There is, however, usually
a considerable quantity of gear which is not moved for long periods
and amongst which rats will nest unless it is properly stOred. Such
things as ropes, chains, pulley—blocks and tarpaulins may be'hung
from the wall or the beams, whilst stores which cannot be hung
are better placed on open racks not less than I8” above the ground,
the space beneath being always kept clear of refuse.

Rats will sometimes live even behind sliding ﬁre-proof doors
which are kept open for long periods. These doors should be moved
every week or so, and the space behind them should be cleaned out.

Where merchandise is stored in warehouses for long periods it
is particularly difﬁcult to prevent the development of rat—harbour-
age, but it is useful to keep cats in the building and to store the
merchandise so that the cats can move freely and hunt rats amongst
it. -
If it is not possible to prevent the access of 'rats to buildings or
to eliminate all possible nesting places an attempt should be made
to cut off the rats’ supply of food or water. In many cases it is
impossible to cut off their food supply, but frequently this is not
done when it might be. For example, in restaurants particular
attention should be paid to the rat—proofing of rooms where food is
stored, but this alone is not sufﬁcient because no matter how care—
fully the bulk of food is protected the spilling and scattering of
small amounts on the ground will nullify these precautions.
Scraps of food will always attract rats, and every particle should be
swept up before the premises are left at night and the refuse should

4

 




 

 

either be burnt or be stored in rat—proof receptacles with well—ﬁtting
lids. Even the grease on the ﬂoors of kitchens will attract rats. In
warehouses where the workpeople eat their midday meal on the
premises the scraps of food which they leave will be appreciated
by rats. The ﬂoor should be swept clean after the meal and the
food refuse burnt or properly stored. But it is better for a special
dining room to be provided.

Though it is frequently impossible to prevent rats gaining
access to food supplies the problem need not even then be given up
as hopeless for in addition to food, rats must have water and it is
frequently a comparatively easy matter to prevent them getting it.
Water—storage tanks or cisterns must obviously be protected, but
ﬁre buckets must not be forgotten. Even dripping taps and leaking
roofs may supply sufﬁcient water for the rats, and it must be remem—
bered that rats will gnaw through lead piping to get the water they
need. Not infrequently rats get their water from the roof gutters
and it is always worth While looking to see if the rats can get on to
the roof from the top ﬂoors, and, if so, to stop the runs with ex-
panded metal or other material which resists gnawing.

It is not possible to draw attention to every way in which the
principles of rat ~proofing may be applied. Every building presents
its own particular problem but sufﬁcient has been said to indicate
the lines along which rat—proofing should be carried out and to
show not only what very careful investigation is necessary but also
to indicate that in nearly every case something can be done to make
life less easy for the rat and consequently to discourage his tenancy
of the premises and to make it difﬁcult for him to maintain a
family. '

With regard to the rat-proofing of ships, much good work has
been done by the Quarantine Authorities of many countries, and I
would refer all those interested to Dr. C. F . White’s paper of 22nd
November, 1933, in The Report of the joint Committee on Rat—
Proofz’ng (Chamber of Shipping of United Kingdom of March
1934) and to the important work of Doctors Grubbs and Holsendorf
of the United States Quarantine Service.

For the actual destruction of rats, the methods in use are
trapping and the use of poisons in the form of baits, the use of
asphyxiating and toxic gases, and the use of bacteria.

The most important consideration in the use of any of these
methods for rodent destruction must always be the safety of the
public. The most effective method of all is the use of hydrogen
cyanide. In inexperienced hands cyanide is highly dangerous to
both operators and the public, and should never be handled except
by highly trained men.

Traps and bait poisons at their best are only partially efﬁcient.
Arsenic, strychnine, phosphorus, barium and thallium preparations
are extremely dangerous to use on a large scale on account of the
difﬁculty of controlling the access of other animals to the uncon-
sumed baits.

5

 




 

 

Regarding bacteriological preparations they have several
disadvantages which mar their undoubted usefulness. The ﬁrst
is that the bacteria employed resemble too closely those responsible
for epidemics of human enteritis. There are numerous cases on
record of illness and death from food contamination caused by the
excreta of rats and mice which have been fed on bacteriological pre—
parations put down for their destruction. A very important Medi-
cal Ofﬁcer of Health said when discussing this question—“If it
is inevitable that my food should be contaminated by the excreta
of rats and mice, I prefer that such vermin are healthy and not
teeming with the bacilli of intestinal disorders.”

Although this method of destruction can be responsible for a
large percentage mortality, it is an undoubted fact that a large
number of rats acquire immunity.

Dr. L. Bahr in his M ass Extermination of Rats by the Ratin
System, found that up to 200/O of the vermin were immune to his
virus. This necessitated a follow—up treatment with red squill
preparations. Red squill powder prepared from the bulb Urgmeu
M cm'tz'ma is an ideal and speciﬁc raticide. Rats recovered from a
sublethal dose of squill will not eat the powder again but Will
repeatedly consume sublethal feedings of baits containing alcohol
or glycerol, extracts of squill.

Much valuable work has been done by Dr. Winton for the
Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries. In his experiments Dr.
Winton established the fact that “female rats are killed by doses of
red squill powder only half as great as those needed to kill male
rats.” The safety of red squill powder as a raticide lies in the
fact that domestic animals will not eat it. Rats consume red
squill baits readily and. die after a dose of 0.2 to 0.5 grammes,
whilst fowls require a dose of approximately ten grammes. On
domestic animals red squill acts as an emetic, whilst rats which do
not vomit, quickly die after a lethal dose.

Contribution No. 227 (I935) of The Agricultural Experiment
Station Massachusetts on Red Squill Investigations is a valuable
work dealing with the large—scale technique of the preparation,
testing and use of red squill. The poisonous principle of squill is
unknown; it contains several glucosides and acts by paralysis of
sensory nerve endings with subsequent arresting of the heart’s
action.

The Use of Cyanide.

In the short time available it is not possible to give you all
the many details concerning the preparation and precautions
necessary when using HCN. It is the most swift and deadly of all
poisons. In toxic doses it causes rapid death by attacking the
medullary centres and arresting the heart and respiration. It is a
direct protoplasmic poison, lessening the power of the tissues to
consume oxygen. It also affects the muscles and nerves directly;
these are weakened and paralysed by its action.

6

 




2: f"

The success attending the use of cyanide as a fumigant is
entirely dependent on the efﬁcient preparation of the space to be
treated. Ships and buildings which can be effectively sealed from
the outside can be completely rid of rats and mice in one treatment.
The Journal of the Royal Sanitary Institute (April I933) Vol.
LIII. No. 10. contains details of the cyanide fumigation of
ships by the writer.

During the past few years the use of cyanide dusting powders
has been gradually gaining favour as a convenient method for
exterminating rodents. In this method HCN is evolved by intro-
ducing a quantity of calcium cyanide in the form of ﬁne dust into
the space to be treated. The action is simply that of the lime in
taking up moisture displacing the HCN.

Two forms of calcium cyanide are in use. Cyanogas is
a ﬁnely ground powder containing 25% HCN. This is blown into
rat harbourages, banks and burrows by means of a foot pump.
Colloid consists of compressed briquettes containing 88 5% Ca(CN)
11.5% CaO. Each briquette contains IO grms. CN which is not
evolved until it is ground into powder. Simple combined grinding
and blowing machines are used with calcid. The makers claim that
in a test of calcid briquettes, exposed to the air underground for 24
hours at 68°F and 80% humidity, the loss of CN was only 10% show-
ing that this material is fairly safe to handle in the open air.

Cymag (another dust) contains 60% Na—CN and 400/O MgSO4.

For handling in the open air for the destruction of rats, rabbits
and moles, these dusts are easy to handle but operators should
always stand on the weather side of the points of distribution as
it is obviously important for them to avoid inhaling the poison.
In enclosed spaces no cyanide compound gas or mixture is safe to
handle without a reliable gas mask.

It is very important that all efforts for the destruction of rats
should be well organized. Rat-proofing on the lines laid down
followed systematically by intensive combined efforts of trained
poison squads can rid the country of one of its greatest perils—the
disease-carrying rodents. .

Perhaps at this point it would be well to remind you that there
is a legal obligation for all property owners in this country to pro—
tect the health of the community by keeping land and premises free
from vermin.

To those whose belief it is that all animal life is sacred, I
would say: “Your views are worthy of the highest respect ; you will
disagree with the opinion that the destruction of animal vermin is a
very important sanitary practice, but to be consistent in your views
you must Carry your convictions to the limit of the Hindu pundit
who carefully removes the bug that bites him from his person and
as gently as possible places it on the ﬂoor.”

 

 




 

REFERENCES.

The Rat—Proofing of Ships. By Charles F. White, M.B., Ch.B.,
D.P.H., Medical Ofﬁcer of Health, Port of London. (1933). '

Rats and Mice as Enemies of Mankind. By M. A. C. Hinton.

Rats: How to Exterminate them, By R. Sharpe. (Board of Agri-
culture and Fisheries). Publication No. 22.

The Destruction of Rats. Leaﬂet No. 244 of the Board of Agriculture
and Fisheries.

Rats and Mice Destruction Act, 1919.

Report on Enteritis. By Drs. Handson, \Nilliams and Klein. (London
1909) .

The Rat-Proofing of Ships. By Doctors Grubbs and Holsendorf.
United States Quarantine Service (1933).

Report of the Joint Committee on Rat-Proofing. Chamber of
Shipping of United Kingdom (1934).

Cyanide Fumigation of Ships. By J. D. Hamer, F.I.C., Journal of
the Royal Sanitary Institute, April 1933.

Red Squill Investigation. Contribution No. 277 (1935). Massachusetts
Agricultural Station.

Analyst, 47. (1922) pp. 60—67. By C. L. Claremont, B.Sc., F.I.C.
Canning Age 13 (1932) pp. 200—220. By E. M. Mills and C. R. Fellers.

Technical Bulletin No. 134 (1929). By J. C. Munch, J. Silver and E. E.
Horn. United States Department of Agriculture.

Farmers’ Bulletin, No. 1533 (1927) , By J. Silver. United States Depart-
ment of Agriculture.

Industrial and Engineering Chemistry No. 27, pp. 1377-1380 (1935).
By M. G. O'Connor, R. E. Buck and C. R. Fellers.

The Rational Mass Extermination of Rats. By Dr. L. Bahr, Copen-
hagen (1923).

Dr. F. R. Winton. Journal of Pharmacology. Vol. XXXI. No. 2. June
1917.

 

’7.

 

 

~70

 




 

 

 

 

 

4a}’

 




 




