The Ofﬁcial Journal of the League for 101, Chandos House, Palmer Street,
the Prohibition of Cruel Sports, Westminster, S.W.l.

‘ Phone: VICTORIA 8496.

 

 

VOL. VIII NO. IO OCTOBER, 1934 2d MONTHLY: 2/? per annum,

post ree.

 

CONTENTS.

PAGE

VIEWS AND NEWS. BY THE EDITOR . '74 NATIONAL TRUST AND BLOOD SPORT
CAGED DECOY BIRDS, . THE BLUE BIRD: SACRED GROUND!
BY T. S. HAWKINS 75 SOME HOAXES. BY HENRY S. SALT

7726 Editor accept: 720 rexpamz'éi/z'ty for 0pz'7zz'om expreuea’ 2'72 .rz'grzed emit/£5.

 

 

VISCOUNT MORLEY, O.M.—“I am quite sure that the time will come when
people will read of the wanton cruelties which we now inﬂict in Sport with
the same wonder and abhorrence with which we now read of the bloody
orgies of savage tribes and the cruel scenes of the Roman amphitheatre.”

 

 




 

Page Seventy—F our _

 

CRUEL SPORTS

October, l 934

 

VIEWS AND NEWS

By The Editor, HENRY B. AMOS.

Obituary

Again we regret to have to record the passing
of several noble and true friends of our Cause. We
refer particularly to the late Bishop of Bipon,
Henry Light, Charles W. Forward, and Donald
James Thomas.

Dr. Edward Arthur Burroughs was an out—
spoken witness to our Movement almost from
the start. In 1926 he wrote to the editor express-
ing his full sympathy with the work, and hoping
that it would help to mobilise what he believed to
be “ a growing sentiment against all kinds of
blood sports.”

Henry Light and Charles Forward were not
closely identiﬁed with our distinctive work, but
that was because they included it in their general
work for vegetarianism, which, truly appre-
hended, covers all humanitarian issues. For
nearly forty years, they were valiant workers
against every form of cruelty to animals, and
during all this time the editor had been privi-
leged to be not only a personal friend but a
fellow-worker and so knows how impossible it is
to trace more than a tithe of their inﬂuence for
good on the animals’ cause and the community.

These were all old men who had served
their day and generation and well earned their
rest. In Donald Thomas, however, we mourn
the loss of a young man, who early caught the
gleam and gave every promise of a great future.
He passed away on June 1st, leaving, as his
father wrote, “ the few pounds of which he was
possessed to three societies, in which he was
much interested.”

7

“ The poor boy,’ continued Mr. Thomas,
“was an ardent supporter of what the League
represents, and I, therefore, carry out his wishes
and enclose cheque value £31 5s.”

Words fail us in Circumstances like these, and
we can only pray that asone warrior falls by
the wayside two may be raised up to take their
places so that the Cause may not ﬂag but con-
tinue to go forward from strength to. strength.

Still the race of hero-spirits,
Pass the torch from hand to hand.

Cub Hunting

Cub-Hunting, one of the supremest iniquities
of “blood” sports, has been in full cry dur-
ing September in probably 200 Fox-Hunts
throughout the country, and it will continue till
November when the season proper begins.

The Eggsford Hounds, Devon, opened their
annual massacre of baby foxes on Monday, at
Stone Wood, where, we are told, forty—two young
turkeys had 'shortly before been slaughtered by
foxes. The cubs could not befound that morn-
ing, only the old foxes. It was hoped, however, to
“ ﬁnd the litter soon as they were very strong and
likely to visit poultry houses in the district.”

This incident illustrates the terrible tyranny of
Fox Hunts in certain districts for no farmer, we
are quite sure, would willingly suffer the loss of
so many valuable young birds without protest and
demand for compensation. And yet, as noted in
our last issue by a farmer in another part of
Devon, farmers “ cannot speak” their mind;
they‘would be “marked men ” if they did.

0‘ 1

Ernest Bell Memorial

Owing to the Committees of several societies
not having met for some weeks there are still
a few official replies to the invitation sent to them
to support the idea of a Humanitarian Library
as the most suitable memorial to the late lVIr.
Ernest Bell to come to hand. Our readers will
be interested to know, however, that the response,
so far, has been overwhelmingly in favour of the
idea. Many letters could be quoted on the point,
but this is not necessary though we will take the
liberty of quoting from the letter received from
the Secretary of The Vegetarian Society, as
follows 1—“ The members of our Executive Com-
mittee are heartily in agreement with the scheme
. . and you may rely upon us doing
whatever we can to forward it.”

We hope to be able to give a fuller report in
our next issue.

if 9K *6

Our Christmas Card

By the courtesy of the Medici Society we are
producing Miss Margaret Tarrant’s attractive pic-
ture “ Love amongst the snows ” in the style of
a folder with a Christmas Greeting. The subject
is a white robed saintly ﬁgure to whom the crea-
tures of the wild, including a fox, several hares
and a rabbit, are nestling for protection in the
snow.

There should be a great demand for this beauti-
ful coloured card and we strongly advise mem-
bers to order early. Copies can be obtained from
the secretary of the League at 3d. each, or 2s 10d.
per dozen, post free, with envelopes.

 

 

 

a. “ax...” -. 4. u .. .




 

 

 

October, 1934.
New Fox-Hunting Leaﬂet

We have just issued a new illustrated leaflet
on “ Fox—Hunting ” dealing with this “ sport”
in a concise form. The information contained in
the leaﬂet should be in the possession of all who
oppose this wicked and wasteful pastime, and
copies can be obtained for %d. each, or 25 for 1s.
post free.

ate *6 9|?

Public Meeting

A public meeting against “ blood ” sports will
be held in the Constitutional Hall, Chapel—en-le-
Frith, on Friday, November 2nd, at 8.15 pm.
The chair will be occupied by the Rev. J. R.
Towers, Vicar of Buxworth, and the speakers will
include Mr. Arthur Middleton, Mr. Charles
Baldwin, and the Secretary. All interested are
cordially invited.

*6 9K 9%

World Day For Animals

The National Council for Animals’ Welfare will
hold their Annual (Vegetarian) Dinner to celebrate
World Day for Animals, on Saturday, October
6th, at Shearn’s Restaurant, Tottenham Court
Road, London, \V., at 7 pm. It will be followed
by a dance at 9.0 p.m., and, this year, Mr.
Harper Cory, F.C.G.S., will give some after-
dinner anecdotes of animals. Tickets 4s. 6d. each
for the Dinner and Dance, or Dance only 1s. 6d,
from the Secretary, N.C.A.VV., 86, Gordon
Square, London, W.C.1., before the day if pos-
sible.

are are ale

Dramatic Entertainment

The National Council for Animals’ Welfare are
organising a performance of “ Iphegenia,” trans-
lation by Gilbert Murray, on Saturday, October
27th, at 3.0 pm. All details andtickets can be
obtained from the Secretary, N.C.A.W., 86,
Gordon Square, London, W.C.1. The perform-
ance will be held at the Rudolf Steiner Hall, Re-
gent’s Street, London, W.

9K 5% ﬁé

Animals’ Fair, I934

The League has again taken a stall at the
Animals’ Fair which will be held at- the Central
Hall, \Nestminster, on Saturday, December 1st,
and gifts for sale on the stall will be very grate-
fully received. Any goods can be sold from the
stall except furs, feathers, and animal products
and all proﬁts belong to the stallholders.

CRUEL SPORTS

 

Page Seventy-Five

THE CR UELTY OF

CAGED DECOY BIRDS
(To the Editor of “ Cruel Sports”)
Sir,—~Much was said about the cruelty to caged
birds in Club Row, and a Bill was passed to put
a stop to it. Why is nothing said about a worse
form of cruelty to caged birds which is increas-
ing at an alarming rate on game preserves?

We are told in the “The Field” that the decoy-
ing powers of individual birds vary considerably,
and that those who call continually are said to
be the best decoys. Thus, those birds who batter
their wings against closed doors, and cry their
hearts out to get to their young ones and com—

rades or free, are considered the most successful
decoys.

The unfortunate birds ﬂy down the funnel
which is very wide at the top of the cage, but.
they are unable to get out again for the bottom
of the funnel is very narrow, and as they ﬂy up
to it their wing expanse prevents them getting
out. Some of the birds are caught in the nesting
season, and have brooding patches; many are
eaten alive in the cage by rats and weasels, whilst
some of them are attacked by kestre‘ls. One can
imagine. the terror of the decoy birds when they
see their dreaded enemy hover over them and
then enter the torture chamber, for there is no
escape, not even a fair ﬁght for life with a clipped
Wing.

Could any one think of anything more cruel
than this? Club Row had nothing to equal it.
The birds in this Alley were. not eaten alive in
trap cages, or attacked by kestrels, and terriﬁed
by sparrow-hawks. They were not kept out in the
open in all weather—blazing sun, hail, snow and
rain. Yet, the Editor of “ The Field,” pleaded
most equuently for the wild birds in Club Row,
though he is strangely silent about the cruelty
to the wild birds in decoy cages. Surely birds
kept in prison by the bigot with a gun who hates
them, require far more help than those who are
kept by people who profess to love them, though,
of course, all need all the help they can get.

A Bill to put a stopto this inhuman treatment
of innocent decoy birds is long overdue, and I
appeal for help in getting it stopped. The fox may
take £30 worth of the poor man’s fowls and he is
not expected to complain. Is it too much to hope
that some members of the L.P.C.S. may consider
this callous cruelty to decoy birds a suitable sub-
ject to force into the limelight particularly on
October 4th, St. Francis’ Day.

T. S. .HAVVKINS.
VVoodley, Berks.

 




 

 

 

 

Page Seventy—Six C R U E L S P O R T 5 October, l934
NA TIONAL TR UST AND the Trust. On 17 other properties shooting rights
were let. The proceeds helped to pay the cost of
BLOOD SPOR T maintenance.

On July 19th, a crowded ordinary general
meeting of the National Trust decisively rejected
a motion that killing for sport should be pro-
hibit-ed where possible on lands held [by the Trust.
The terms of the motion proposed by Mr. W. A.
Sibly were: i

“ In view of the cruelties involved in killing
for sport, this meeting respectfully requests the
Executive Committee of the National Trust to
rescind any existing authorisations and to pro-
hibit all future hunting and shooting for sport on
Trust lands, except such as have been given to
the Trust conditionally upon the sanction of
ﬁeld-Sports thereon. ”

Mr. Sibly admitted that his proposal implied
certain practical difficulties, such. as the keeping
of hounds off Trust lands. The multiplication of
certain animals, such as rabbits, grey squirrels,
and foxes, had to be restricted in the interests of
other animals and of agriculture. But the most
merciful way of killing animals was to have them
shot by professionals, not by amateurs, or to
destroy them by humane trapping, or in some
cases by carbon-monoxide gas.

The National Trust Act of 1907 had given the
Trust powers for “ the preservation of animal
and plant life,” and by-law 8 of the Trust for-
bade any unauthorised person to shoot or kill
any animals on their properties. The Trust,
therefore, had the power to forbid killing, and
the duty to make its properties sanctuaries for
both man and beast.

Lady Cory seconded Mr. Sibly’s motion.

In reply, Sir Francis Acland pointed out that
in respect of certain Trust properties, including
the large ones on Exmoor given by his own
family, the donors had specially provided that
sporting rights should continue. In the case of
mountain tops in other places, foxes were hunted
for the protection of local sheep farmers. He
asked the meeting not to. introduce such a difﬁ-
cult general rule.

Lord Ullswater said that in Cumberland and
Westmorland there were farmers’ packs of fox-
hounds for defensive purposes to protect their
sheep. The National Trust- would have to under-
take the great expense of keepers to restrict
animals on their properties, if they prohibited
hunting and shooting.

Mr. R. C. Norman said that of the 40,000 acres
which the Trust held, 9,000 were given condition-
ally upon t-he sanction of ﬁeld sports, so that
these would not have been acquired if Mr.
Sibly’s motion had been previously accepted by

The Chairman, Lord Zetland, said that the
passing of such a motion would split the Trust
from top to bottom, and that if it were passed
the Executive Committee would exercise their
right to demand a poll of the whole membership.

The motion was defeated by about 80 votes.
to 10.

-)(- -)(- 9(-

THE FEAR OF A “SPLIT”

(To the Editor of the “Manchester Guardian”.)

Sir,—The recent refusal of the National Trust
at its annual general meeting to prohibit hunting
on certain Trust lands raises some interesting
questions. May we be permitted to mention two
of these?

First, it may be noted that great stress was
laid by members of the Trust Executive Com-
mittee on the fact that if hunting were outlawed
the Trust would be “split” and would lose the
adherence and subscriptions of sportsmen. If this
vier be correct, it is sad to reﬂect that all the
sporting members in question are so little public-
spirited that they would be impelled to desert a
splendid national organisation like the Trust
merely because their particular hobby was dis-
allowed. But it must be remembered that the
Trust has never yet made a straight appeal on this
issue to the general bedy of the public. Surely,
if the Trust thought ﬁt to publish some such ap-
peal for funds, stating its intention to prohibit
ﬁeld sports and asking national support for this
the gain would outweigh the loss?

The second point is this. The many opponents
of blood sports among Trust members might
equally well retort that if hunting continues to
be permitted they must resign their membership
———a course which we arevery far indeed from
advocating. Yet the Trust’s executive seems not
to have contemplated this position and, indeed,
appears hitherto to have regarded the very strong
feeling of its anti-hunting members as scarcely
worthy of notice. '

Therefore on these lands, held in trust, inter
alia, “for the preservation (so far as practicable)
of their natural aspect, features, and animal and
plant life,” interesting and beautiful creatures,
both furred and feathered, are trapped or slain
as “ vermin ” in the interests of game-preserva-
tion, and Wild life is scared or disturbed by the
irruption of dogs and hunters in pursuit of foxes.

H. G. CHANCELLOR.
London, August 9th.

.
. .~.M.WMA_.MWM.WM.MM. .

 

 

Mun—ax W

a.

.J-m‘...

 

 

 

\




 

. -NWM ”L;

A. a...”

 

 

 

 

October, l 934 .

CRUEL SPORTS

Page Seventy—Nine

 

 

PROPAGANDA

The following letters were sent by the Secretary
of the League to newspapers in the districts
named: “ British Sport,” on September 5th, to
all Brighton and Eastbourne papers, and “ Cub—
Hunting” on September 10th, to about I140
papers in fox-hunting districts.

BRITISH “ SPORT” .’

Sir,——I am informed by an eye-witness that
yesterday morning a hunted fox crossed the Sea-
ford Golf Links and took refuge under an empty
wooden bungalow. The noble sportsmen in pur-
suit removed the ﬂoor boards and the fox was
given to the hounds. This edifying spectacle was
witnessed by a number of children.

Now if the persecuted creature had been a cat
or a dog, the perpetrators of this cruel and
cowardly deed would very soon have found them-
selves before the local magistrate, but unfor-
tunately the victim was, in the terms of the self-
styled sportsmen, “ reserved for the chase” and
so nothing can be done in the matter.

It is high time that this shameful iniquity
should be prohibited in a so-called Christian and

(civilized country, and the creatures of the. wild .

receive the same protection from cruelty that
tame ones now enjoy.

CUB HUNTING

Sir,—I ask the courtesy of your columns to
protest on behalf of all who scorn to ill-treat help-
less young life against a despicable practice
which is prevalent at the present time in the dis-
trict in which your paper circulates. I refer to
what have recently been described by a well-
known Yorkshire hunting correspondent as the
“ ruthless slaughter of the innocents” which
have been carefully preserved during the summer
months to provide “ amusement ” for the sport-
ing fraternity.

There is no need to go into particulars, the
shameful accounts of the “sport” can be read in
the press each week. Sufﬁce to say that after
more than a hundred years of deﬁnite humane
education since the principle of animals’ rights
was established, it is high time that the people
of this land demanded one standard of justice
for all animals.

Pursuit of Reynard

In mediwval times the fox was hunted and
killed, not for amusement but for the eX-
termination of a pest. Only in the seventeenth
century did the “beast of stinking flight” attain
the rank of. a sporting animal, and not until a
century later did foxhounds really begin to rival
staghounds in the favour of huntsmen.

- ‘ ——Glasgow Evening News

Keeping Down The Deer

(In the “Manchester Guardian”)

Sir,——The Marquis of Tavistock suggests that
animal-welfare workers should devote them-
selves to investigating the alleged badly managed
shooting of deer in a certain Scottish district.

I have no doubt that Scottish animal-welfare
workers will require no hint from Lord Tavistock
to do their best in this and other matters; but I
trust that English animal—lovers will allow
nothing to divert them from attacking the intend
tional cruelty to deer which takes place on
Exmoor and in the New Forest.

I suggest that Lord Tavistock endeavours to
ascertain for us what was the method of keeping
down the deer used on Exmoor during the war,
when hunting was in abeyance, for the success of
which the harbourer, Fred Gross, was publicly
thanked by Lord Fortescue. This year I attemp-
ted to obtain this information from the lady mas—
ter of the Quantock Hunt, but have received no
reply. M. C. C. CHAPMAN.

Oxford.

SAYS MR. PEPPERCORN

In the preface to a book on Sport by a former
M.I)., the author says that, if he has succeeded
in proving the various sports are not necessarily
cruel, his object has been attained.

Very well—we’ll take his own pretty story of a
stag he killed.

From a range of 50 yards, our sportsman hits
the poor brute, who manages, however, to limp
away, and presently they see him on the sky line,
“ very, very sick.” The wounded animal is left
to suffer until the following morning, when they
ﬁnd him lying in the snow, but still alive. He
staggers to his feet, and the next shot drops him,
and they then get busy with the knife.

—“ Daily Herald,” August.

WAN TON CR UELTY

Sir,———While the Grand Prix was in progress a
hare made its way on to the course at Clady
Corner. With ears pricked it came along the seven.
miles’ straight for about one hundred yards and
took the corner faster, I should think, than the
cycles. It was unable for a time to make its way
into a ﬁeld, there being crowds on either side of
the road. Eventually, however, it cleared a ditch,
and, to the disgust of many onlookers, was imme-
diately pursued from all sides by men and boys.
The defenceless hare, at last, stricken with fear,
and overcome by numbers, fell an easy prey to
its heartless pursuers. One might have expected
this conduct from a greyhound or a leopard,
which kills for the sheer joy of killing, but not
from human beings. W. G. L. W.

“ Northern Whig” (Belfast), Aug. 21.

 




Page Eighty ‘ c R U E L s P o R T 5 October, 1934

T The League For The Prohibition Of Cruel "Sports

l0], Chandos House, Palmer Street, Westminster, S.W.l. Phone: Victoria 8496.

 

 

 

 

Hon. Treasurer—CANON F. L. DONALDSON. Secretary—J. C. SHARP.

 

Vzce-Presidents— .
LADY CLARE ANNESLEY. GERALD GOULD, Esq. E. ROSSLYN MITCHELL, Esq.

Sm HERBERT BARKER DA . H. 7 - . E
_ - ME OUISA NNEs UMSDEN. ENRY Vl- NEVILSOI‘ SQ-
Mrss MARJORIE BOWEN, F.R.Soc.th., L 1 L ,

ALD. M. CONWAY, J.P. LL-D- (hdlnburgh)- EEVERLEY N)ICHOLS,‘Esq.
(Ex-Pres., Nat. Un. Tchrs.). LADY EMILY LUTYENS. EDEN 1’11”,th OTTS, Esq.

CANON DONALDSON (Westminster). DONALD MACLEOD, Esq. - PERCY A. SCHOLF—S, ESQ-

G. P. GOOCH, D.Litt. (Ex-Mbr. Brit. Olympic 01.). DAME SYBIL THORNDIKE.

WHAT THE LEAGUE STANDS FOR

THE PRINCIPLE. That it is iniquitous to inﬂict suffering upon sentient animals for
the purposes of sport—“ pleasure ”!

IT CONDEMNS fox deer, bare, and otter-hunting, badger-digging, and rabbit and
hare-coursing. (See leaflet “Blood Sports Condemned”)

IT DEMANDS the substitution for the animal of a Drag, which gives all the glamour
of a run with hounds Without the cruelty. (See leaﬂet “ Drag-hunting.”)

IT PROTESTS against the “ blooding ” of children, and demands its cessation ( See
leaﬂet “Blooded.”)

 

AN OFFER. A copy of the Journal and leaﬂets sent free to any address on application
to the Secretary. We shall also be glad to send a speaker to any Literary Society, Church

Group, etc., if out-of-pocket expenses are paid. Lantern slides and lecture notes are also
available.

JOIN THE LEAGUE.

I hereby declare that I am opposed to blood sports of every kind and desire to join the
League for the Prohibition of Cruel Sports.

I enclose herewith"

State
whether
Mr., Mrs.,
or Miss.

*5/- per annum includes Ofﬁcial Journal monthly. Without the Journal, 2/6, Life Members £5.
Post this form, with remittance, to Secretary, L.P.C.S.. IOI, Chandos House, Westminster, S.W.I.

 

FORM OF BEQUEST.
To those who may be inclined to become Benefactors by will to the League, the following Form is
respectfully suggested :—
I bequeath unto the Society called THE LEAGUE FOR THE PROHIBITION or CRUEL SPORrs, London, the sum

of ....................... . ....... free of Legacy Duty. ,And I direct that the same shall be paid to the
Treasurer for the time being of such last—mentioned Society.

By virtue of the Act.of Victoria. cap. 26, all Wills and Codicils must be in writing, signed by the Testator, and
attested by two witnesses in the presence of the Testator and of each other.

 

 

BRIGHTON.—Ideal Boarding Establishment, pure BUDLEI_GH SALTERTON, the Coastal Gem otSouth Devon.
generous varied diet, Bedrooms h. and 0. water, gas Superior Board Resrdence. Bedrooms W1th h. and c.

. running water, varied and attractive food. Adequate-
ﬁI‘eS. good garden, central, near Sea and Downs, inclu- vegetarian meals if desired—Mr. and Mrs. Lonsdale
sive terms.__Tariﬂ’: Mr. and Mrs. Massingham, 16 and Wormald, “Mountway.”

17, Norfolk Terrace. WANTED, STAMPS in use before 1880._Sewell. 51, Lane
BEAUTIFUL BUTTEIRMEREh—‘Victoria Golf Hotel. Season caster Gate, London- .

terms £4/4/-, SW1ss balconies 10/6d. extra. (QUIet HUMANE FUR! (fabric)._._104, George Street, W.1., Wel-r

periods 75 per cent.) beck 7257.

Small prepaid advertisements are inserted at the rate of lé—d.

, . per word per insertion or 2/6d. per line for twelve
insertions and they should be received at the ofﬁce by the

15th of the month for the following month’s issue.

Published by the LEAGUE FOR THE PROHIBITION OF GRUEL SPORTS, at 101, Chandos House, Palmer Street,
‘ Westminster, S.W.1; and Printed for them by NUNEATON NEWSPAPERS, LTD., Bond Gate, Nuneaton.

 

 




