 

[/72 * ' * '

2-...— w-wxhn—u .—

MORAL AND RELIGIOUS ESTIMATE

OF

VIVISECTION: w

[Reprinted, by permission, ﬁ'om the GENTLEMAN’S MAGAZINE]:

HENRY NUTOOMBE OXENHAM, M.A.

 

JOHN HODGES: ,
24, KING WILLIAM STREET, STRAND, LONDON.

~—

PRIOE SIXPENO'E.

 




‘A‘v‘.r. -
“"-\41‘v
. x.“

 

 

 




    
 
     
     
  
 

MORAL AND RELIGIOUS ESTIMATE

VIVISECTION:

[Reprinted, by permission, lf'rom the GEN'l‘LEMAN’S MAGAZINE].

HENRY NUTOOMBE OXENHAM, M.A.

JOHN HODGES:
24, KING WILLIAM STREET; STRAND, LONDON.

.._—_——-—-

PRIOE SIXPENO’E.

 

 








I mt“..._,—._,_ Aaﬂﬁ‘, . ,9“..- ....ﬁ 7.1—_ U

 

 

MORAL AND RELIGIOUS ESTIMATE or
VIVISECTION.

EFORE coming to the proper subject of this paper, we are con-
fronted by a preliminary objection too important to be passed
over in silence, though a very brief consideration will sufﬁce to
prove that it has no real weight. Vivisection is confessedly an un-
pleasant subject ; so unpleasant, indeed, that it is almost as impossible,
and for somewhat similar reasons, to enter minutely into descriptive
detail, in works intended for general circulation, as in the (case of
Turkish atrocities. And both classes of culprits have accordingly
proﬁted by their own wrong, on the well-known principle, “ Scelem
ostendz‘, ﬂagz'tia celm'i debmt.” It may be taken as some indication of an
analogy between the two, that journals like the Pall Mall Gazette,
which are never tired of sneering at the “ humanitarian ” principles of
Mr. Gladstone and his followers, betray a hardly less cynical
impatience of our plea for the protection of dumb animals from the
cruelty of experts. And, while I heartily respond to every word of
Mr. Gladstone’s eloquent denunciations of “the one antishuman
specimen of humanity,” I am disposed to think, for reasons which
will appear presently, that in this unenviable gradation of eminence
the Vivesector may fairly claim the nearest approximation to the
Turk. To the vivesectors themselves, who “ do good by stealth, and
blush (not without reason) to ﬁnd it fame,” I owe no apology for
reopening the question. But even the most benevolent persons are
apt to grow weary of having records of inhuman outrage continually
forced on their attention. And it may at once he allowed that an
urgent practical motive can alone justify our persistent iteration of
the loathsome tale. This brings me at once to the point of the
preliminary objection I am anxious to dispose of before going
further.

In consequence of the Report of a Royal Commission, on which
the friends of Vivisection were more than adequately represented, a
Bill for restraining the practice was introduced into the House of
Lords by Lord Carnarvon, on behalf of the Government, in 1876,
and eventually became law, after undergoing serious modifications, or
rather mutilations, in its progress. Its original draft was far from

A

 




 

 

 

 

 

4

satisfactory, but might perhaps have been accepted as a temporary
compromise, till a fuller measure of relief could be obtained. But in
its passage through Committee it was so materially altered, chieﬂy in
deference to the vehement opposition of a large section of the medical
professiOn, as to becomesat last very much what Mr. Hutton, in his
letter to Lord Granville, had expressed his fear that it would become
“ a Bill far better adapted to protect unscrupulous physiologists than to
protect the creatures on which they operate,”* So far from affording
any excuse for desisting from further agitation in the matter, this
unfortunate Act makes it only the more imperative, for it goes far to
establish the practical impossibility of placing any effectual “ restraint”
on vivesection, short'of its total prohibitiond‘ And hence, while an
A “ International Association for the Total Suppression of Vivisection ”
had already been formed, the previously existing “Society for the
Protection of Animals Liable to Vivesection” has remodelled its
programme, since the passing of the Act, in accordance with the
generally expressed desire of its members, with a view to procuring

“the Total Prohibition of Painful Experiments on Animals.”1‘ The '

reasons for dissatisfaction with the present state of the law are not
far to seek, and may be brieﬂy summarised,

In the ﬁrst place, to those who object to cruel experiments on
animals altogether it must of course appear a grave evil that the
principle of Vivisection, however carefully guarded, should now for
the first time receive :the explicit sanction of the Legislature. It was
at least arguable before, that these practices were forbidden by the
general law against cruelty to animals. For it is not easy to under-
stand why a carter or groom who kicks or flogs his horse to death in
‘a ﬁt of passion, or a thoughtless boy who stones a cat in sport,
should be more liable to punishment than a learned professor or
medical student who deliberately tortures cats and dogs and horses
for hours or days together in the alleged interests of Science.
Morally the guilt of the latter, as being more highly educated, would
seem to be considerably the greatest. Torture, it may be added,

9* The University of London and Vivisection (Daldy, Isbister, & 00.).

T Yet, when some months ago I had occasion to speak on this subject at a meeting
in a provincial town, the leading medical man oﬂthe place indignantly charged me with
entire ignorance of the facts, in proof of which he insisted that the Act of 1876 (a)
forbids all painful experiments on animals without anaesthetics, and (b) exempts
cats and dogs altogether. It is true that both conditions were inserted in the Bill,
but he ought to have known that, through the urgent remonstrances of members of
his own profession, the latter was—as the former had been all along—rendered liable
to diSpensation, and thus virtually eliminated, before it became law.

It See Third Report of the Society, Aug. 187 8, p. 7.

 




5

whether for civil or ecclesiastical offences, even in ages when it was
unhappily universal, or all but universal, throughout the rest of
Europe, was always illegal in England. It was practised, no doubt,
under some of our sovereigns, as, e.y., Elizabeth and James II.; but.
that was not because it was legal, but because absolute rulers were
powerful enough to override the law. It is new for the ﬁrst time in
history expressly legalis’ed in this country—not, indeed, as regards man,
but as against creatures which, being dumb and defenceless, have a
special claim on his protection. This is our ﬁrst objection to the
Act. And the fact that any partial measure stops the way, and
renders more difﬁcult the attainment of a satisfactory solution, is a
second. Still it might have been provisionally condoned on the obvious
plea, so often inevitably admitted in practical politics, that “half a loaf-
is better than no bread,” till a more complete security could be obtained.
And if Lord Carnarvon’s Bill had passed in its original form, with the
clause afterwards introduced for the entire exemption of horses, asses,
and mules, as well as of cats and dogs, from vivisection, it would pretty
certainly have been accepted, not as a ﬁnal settlement of the question——
no half measure could be so regarded—but as a step in the right direc-
tion, securing to the victims of torture a real and not inconsiderable
measure of immediate relief. But there is nothing in the Act, in the
shape it eventually assumed under medical manipulation, to justify—
far less to demand—even this provisional acceptance. And the tone
adopted by distinguished medical men like Sir William Gull, who
insist that “knowledge is always humane,” and denounce “in the
language of deep contempt and even passion ”—to cite Mr. Hutton’s
words—all who attempt to procure any restriction of Vivisection, as
“drawing an indictment against Providence,” and supporting a
movement “founded in gross superstition, like the mediaeval move-
ment“ against witchcraft,” * affords additional evidence of the hope-
lessness of any‘practical compromise. Henceforth it is war to the
knife; Humanity against Science falsely so called, and Science against
Humanity.

And now to come to details. It might be enough to refer to
the original sin of the Act, which may be summed up in the words of
a paragraph from a local paper, brought under my notice by a friend
in order to prove its adequacy, but which, to my mind, conclusively
proves the opposite. The writer, who is evidently a vivisectionist,
complains that the Act is being “so worked as almost to put a stop
to physiological research in this country;” but he at once explains
that “ this is due not so much to the provisions of the Act as to the
way in which they are applied” by the present Home Secretary;

if Hutton’s Letter to Lord Granville, p. 8.
A 2

 




 

 

 

 

 

6

and then he signiﬁcantly adds, that there is so strong a feeling about
the matter among leading physiologists that “ some steps will no doubt
be taken before long to represent the folly and mischief of the
course which has hitherto been adopted by the Home Ofﬁce.” We
know only too well that the ﬁrst part of the statement is exaggerated ;
but if it proves, valeat quantum—what I have no wish to dispute—that
Mr. Cross is doing his best to carry out the Act in a loyal and humane
spirit, it also proves how entirely it depends for its efﬁciency on the
personal will and judgment of the Home Secretary for the time
being, and how easily pressure may be brought to bear upon him,
which might become morally irresistible, to reduce it to a dead letter.
There‘might seem, perhaps, to be no immediate danger of this while
the memory of the passing of the Act is fresh, and its operation is
jealously watched by hostile critics; but in course of time, at all
events, when their vigilance begins to ﬂag, and the working of the
Act falls into other hands, the danger will prove a serious one. ‘1‘
Suppose, e.g., Mr. Lowe, or any one like-minded with him in this matter,
held the ofﬁce! With the Home Secretary for the time being it rests
to decide on his own sole responsibility, to whom and to how many
applicants licenses for vivisection shall be granted. He is under no
obligation to reveal—and has hitherto, in fact, steadily refused to
reveal, as we shall see—either the names of successful or the number
of unsuccessful applicants. He alone decides whether anaesthetics are
or are not to be dispensed with. And lastly—mark thiSI—it is pro-
vided by Clause 21 of the Act, “that a prosecution against a
licensed person shall not be instituted except with the assent in
writing of the Secretary of State.” This last provision ominously
recalls the similar clause introduced into the now defunct Eccle-
siastical Titles Act, for the express and almost avowed purpose of
reducing it—as, in fact, it did reduce it for the twenty years it encum-
bered the statute book—to a dead letter, and which accordingly won
for its author the appropriate sobriquet of “the boy who chalked up
‘No Popery’ and ran away.” Nor is it any answer to say that the
Act prescribes the use of anaesthetics. In the ﬁrst place, the effect of
anaesthetics on the lower animals, when applicable at all—and in
many cases they cannot be applied, because to deaden sensation
would be to destroy life—is so doubtful at best that Dr. Hoggan
considers them “ far more efﬁcacious in lulling public feeling towards
the vivisectors than pain in the vivisected,” and does not hesitate to
say that they have proved “ the greatest curse to vivisectible animals.”

9* There is a. ghastly signiﬁcance in a remark made lately in the Saturday

. Review: “We are not quite accustomed to vivisection yet, that is the fact; 80072
we s/za/l be absolutely indiﬁ‘erent.”

 




7

And his testimony is conﬁrmed by that of Sir W. Fergusson, who
says that an experiment performed under anaesthetics “ is not of the
smallest value” (1077), as well as that of many other medical wit-
nesses examined before the Royal Commission. In the next place
the Act provides that anaesthetics may be dispensed with, “if insen-
sibility cannot be produced without frustrating the object of such ex-
periment ” (as would generally be the case) ; and so, again, an animal
need not be put out of its agony after undergoing the operation
“ until the object of the experiment is attained.” Here is a loophole
for any amount of unrelieved and undisguised torture, subject only
to the precarious safeguard of a Home Secretary’s license.

And if we turn from the letter of the Act to the evidence of its
practical operation so far, under circumstances which must be con-
sidered exceptionally favourable, the prospect is still less reassuring.
The Act, I repeat, is never likely to be worked in a more humane
spirit than at present and by the present Home Secretary, as Mr.
Holt observed in moving the second reading of his Bill for its amend-
ment last year. * Yet what is the result? The ﬁrst point to strike one
is that the systemof licensing established by the Act is shown to be
a system of secret licensing. When Mr. Mundella moved last year
for a Return of the licenses asked for and granted, full returns were
refused, and have again been refused this year. We were then told
the number of persons licensed up to the date of the Return, and
most of the places registered for Vivisection, but the number of appli-
cants and the names of the persons licensed were resolutely withheld.
It is easy to understand the reluctance of these gentlemen to have
their names revealed, nor can there be any doubt that Mr. Cross was
acting quite within his legal rights in refusing to reveal them; but
this, to begin with, is a very suspicious circumstance indeed. Still,
something may be learnt, and more may be inferred, from the limited
information that has been vouchsafed to us, and that something is the
reverse of satisfactory. It appeared from the ﬁrst Return issued in
March, 1877, that twenty-three licenses had been granted up to that
time; Jr a small number, perhaps, but nearly double the number at which
Dr. Burdon Sanderson, when examined before the Royal Commission,
estimated the entire body of persons in England and Scotland
engaged in physiological investigation. It is, therefore, not surprising

* Speech of J. Maden Holt, Esq., May 2, 1877 (25, Cockspur Street).

1* The number had risen to 46 before the issue of the second Return, May, 1878,
zle. it was just doubled—28 new licenses having been granted, and 18 of the old ones
renewed. There were 7 certiﬁcates for dispensing with anaesthetics, 6 for operating
on cats and dogs, and 15 dispensing with the obligation to kill the animal before
recovery; also the use of curare had been sanctioned in 3 cases. ,

 




 

 

 

 

8

to learn, in the next place, that of those twenty-three licenses,
thirteen—that is, considerably over half—were not given for the pro-
fessed purpose of scientiﬁc discovery—which is the usual and only
plausible pretext for permitting Vivisection at all—but for experi-
ments in illustration of lectures, some of which are even attended by
young ladies! And that, as Mr. Holt observed, is just what the public
justly dreads as likely to have a 'demoralising effect.

Nor is this .all. While the names of these twenty-three licensed
Vivisectors were refused, the places registered for the use of nineteen of
them were speciﬁed, and hence the names of some of the operators may
be inferred with tolerable conﬁdence.>I< One of these places is the
“Cambridge University Physiological Laboratory New Museum,”
where four persons were licensed, two of them for experiments in illns-
tration of lectures, which are attended by undergraduates studying for
the Natural Science Tripos, and by the young ladies at GirtOn and
Newnhmn Hall. It may be presumed that one of these four licensed
Vivisectors is Dr. Michael Foster, Preelector of Physiology at Trinity
College, and one of the authors of the too famous “ Handbook of the
Physiological Laboratory,” on which Dr. Rolleston pronouned a
severe censure before the Royal Commission (Report, 1287, 1851/}.i'
Dr. Foster himself very naturally objected to any legislation on the
subject as unnecessary and useless (2895-6, 2348). Another regis-
tered place is the “Edinburgh University Physiological Department,”
for which two licenses were given, and where the ordinary operators
are known to be Dr. Stirling and Professor Rutherford. The latter,
it may be remembered, is the gentleman who placed thirty-six dogs
for eight hours under enrare (which paralyses voluntary motion, while
it heightens sensation), in order to test the effect of certain drugs 011
the ﬂow of bile, but who himself assured the Royal Commission that
these experiments would certainly not afford any evidence of what
the effect would be on human beings, or in other words, were useless,
and therefore—as Sir W. Thomson has since publicly declared—-
unjustiﬁable on any theory. Another place is the Glasgow University

9* Four of the licenses were for places “ not named,” the rule conﬁning vivisection
to registered places being, like every other nominal safeguard of this most elastic Act,
placed at the option of the Home Secretary.

1' Professor Rolleston, of Oxford, remarked :—"‘ Kingsley speaks of ‘the sleep-
ing devil that is in the heart of every man,’ but you may say it is the lower nature
which we possess in common with the Carnivora. It is just this, that the sight of
a living, bleeding, and quivering organism most undoubtedly does act in a parti-
cular way upon what Dr. Carpenter calls the emotionomotor nature in us. I
know that many men are superior to it; but I beg to say that, if we are talking of
legislation, we are not to legislate for the good, but for the mass who, I submit,
are not always good.”

 

 




9

Physiological Laboratory, for which Dr. M’Kendrick was probably
licensed, who expressed to the Royal Commission his decided objection
to requiring a license for special places or special investigations,
and to prohibiting experiments conducted in private (3957, 8958,
8963). And lastly, no fewer than ﬁve persons were licensed for London
University, among whom are probably to be found Dr. Burden
. Sanderson, editor of the “Handbook” already mentioned, who con-
siders any system of inspection practically impossible (2352), and
does not think baking animals to death likely to be productive of
much pain (2778); Mr. Schafer, who talks airily about “hundreds
(a-year) of animals of all kinds, without counting frogs,” being
tortured in one laboratory (8853); and the notorious Dr. Klein, who
was engaged ﬁve years ago as assistant in the Brown Institute,
founded by the bequest of the late Mr. Brown for “the reception of
animals and cure of their ailments,” with an express provision for
their kind treatment, but which has been prostituted, in deﬁance of
equity, if not of law, and in the teeth of the recorded intentions of
its humane founder, into a torture den. * It was Dr. Klein, who ever
and over again emphatically asserted before the Commission, with an
engaging frankness which leaves nothing to be desired, that in his
opinion the sole reason for using anaesthetics in any case is the con-
venience of the operator, and that “no regard at all ought to be
paid to the feelings of the amimals Operated upon.”+ Yet another
witness, Mr. Simon, said he did not know any kinder persons
than Dr. Burden Sanderson and Dr. Klein, which proves all the
more clearly in proportion to the weight of his testimony, how little
experts can be trusted to take the law into their own hands. If the
principle of Owlque in 3ch aorta creolemlmn be admitted in questions
falling exclusively under professional cognisance, we may with equal
conﬁdence assert the opposite principle, Nemlml in sud cute emclmdum,

. 9* It appears from the last Return that the Brown Institute has this year (1878)
again been licensed for Vivisection by Mr. Cross. The decision of the University
Senate, by a large majority, to perpetuate this gross abuse, was the ground of
Mr. Hutton’s retirement from that body, as explained in the Letter to Lord
Granville, the Chancellor, to which reference has been already made.

1‘ One brief and typical extract may be subjoined from this amazing evidence :.._
“When you say that you only use anaesthetics for convenience sake, do you mean
that you have no regard at all to the sufferings of the animals?’ “N0 regard
at all.” “Then for your own purposes you disregard entirely the question of the
' suffering of the animal in performing a painful experiment?” “I (10,”. ,
“But in regard to your proceedings as an investigator, you are prepared to
acknowledge that you hold as entirely indifferent the sufferings of the animal which
is subjected to your investigation?” “Yes.” Being asked if he thought there
was any different feeling from his own on the subject among physiologists, whethe 1‘
foreign or English, he replied, “I do not {lain/c f/zerc is” (3539-3553).

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

10

of those mixed questions where professional interest, or feeling, or
esprit ole corps is brought into contact, and perhaps into conﬂict, with
the interests of the outside world. A theologian may be the best
judge of religious, or a physiologist of scientiﬁc, truth; but neither
theologians nor physiologists can safely be trusted to act on their own
unfettered discretion as to the best methods of advancing and pro-
pagating their respective creeds. The one with the best intentions
may establish the Spanish Inquisition, the other the torture-trough
of the scientiﬁc laboratoryi“

And thus we are brought to the main subject of this paper. On
the scientiﬁc results of Vivisection I am not competent to pronounce
an opinion of my own, nor is the force of the moral argument substan-
tially affected by such considerations. But it may be as well to observe
in passing that there is, to say the least, so great a conﬂict of medical
evidence on this point, that if the alleged value of these cruel experi-
ments on living animals for medical science has not been disproved,
“ not proven” is the utmost that can be urged against the opposite con-
tention, while there can be no doubt at all of the utter and admitted use-
lessness of far the greater part of them for the discovery of new truths.

Let me cite a few only out of many unimpeachable witnesses. Sir
W. Fergusson considered that no man has ever had more experience
of the human subject than Mr. Syme; and Mr. Syme’s ultimate
judgment was pronounced very decidedly against these operations,
which he regarded as “ altogether unnecessary and useless,’.’ and viewed
“with abhorrence.” Sir W. Fergusson himself believes a great deal of
reckless mutilation is going on among students even in private houses,
“ and does not think such experiments have any direct bearing on sur-
gical practice or have led to any increase of knowledge on the subject.”

5* See, e.g., the ghastly details, elaborated with the cold precision of a connoisseur,
in Dr. H. Beaunis’s Nouveaux Elements de Physiologic Humaine, a volume Of
1,100 pages, partly occupied in describing the proper construction of these labora-
tories or torture-dens, chieﬂy in descriptions of experiments involving prolonged
agony to the wretched victims, but without a syllable anywhere to indicate the
smallest feeling of regret for the horrible sufferings thus deliberately inﬂicted.
One extract must sufﬁce here :-—“ It is unnecessary to detail here the special rules
for vivisections, except to say that as the object of the physiologist differs entirely
from that of the surgeon, the method of procedure is somewhat diﬁerent. The surgeon
operates quickly in order to arrive with the utmost possible speed at the conclusion of
the operation. Despatch is of much less consequence to the physiologist ,- on the contrary ,
it has even its disadvantages, for he has to seize in passing all the manifestations of
the vital activity which occur under his eyes during the course. of the experiment,
since all the circumstances which for the surgeon are but accessories, serve to
advance the physiologist on the path of exploration and sometimes of new dis—
covery. It is indispensible therefore that, without losing sight of the express object

of the operation, he keep his eye on all that passes in the animal and organs whiCh
are bared to his gaze.”

 

 




 

 

11

Dr. Haughton thinks “a large proportion of the experiments now
performed upon animals in England, Scotland, and Ireland are un-
necessary and clumsy repetitions of well—known results.” Sir Charles
Bell designated torturing animals “in most cases a useless act of
cruelty, less certain in result than was commonly supposed, and less
proﬁtable than an attentive study of pathological phenomena.” Mr.
G. H. Lewes complained that, after an experiment had once been
performed, “they will repeat it, and repeat it, and repeat it, all
over Europe.” Mr. J. B. Mills said the experiments, chieﬂy on cats
and dogs, had no other motive than idle curiosity and reckless love
of experimentation. Sir James Paget thinks more highly of the
advantages of clinical inquiry. Dr. Acland does not consider these
experiments the most important for advancing medical knowledge.
Dr. Lane, Dr. Brunton, Dr. Macilwaine, and Dr. Bridges emphatically
deny that Harvey was in any way indebted to experiments on living
animals for the discovery of the circulation of the blood, as is con-
stantly afﬁrmed by vivisectionists. Longet declares that “no vivi-
sections can be beneﬁcial to man except they are made on men,” as no
doubt they will be sooner 0r later, if once the practice is allowed to
take root among us. Nor is this all. Not only is there abundant
testimony to the uselessness, but to the positively injurious results of
this method of investigation. Dr. Brown Séquard, one of the highest
living authorities on the subject, has shown that the theories derived
from this source on the functions of the brain are “a tissue of errors,
Which have to be rectiﬁed by clinical operations during life and
careful examination of diseased structures after death.” Sir Charles
Bell has left on record his conviction that these experiments “have
never been the means of discovery; and a survey of What has been
attempted of late years in physiology Will prove that the Opening of
living animals has done more to perpetuate error than to conﬁrm the
just views derived from the study of anatomy and natural motions.”
Sir Charles Lyell spoke of the practice “ with a shudder of disgust.”

Similar extracts could easily be multiplied, but these may suﬁice to
show how untenable is the assumption that there is even any well-
grounded scientiﬁc pretext for experimentalising on living animals in
the interests of man.

If, indeed, the medical value of the practice were as certain as it is
at best slender and ambiguous, that would in no wise prove its lawful-
ness; but while cruelty can be excused by no selﬁsh advantage, a
cruelty which is almost or altogether unproﬁtable becomes more
exceeding cruel. And the passages already quoted help to indicate,
inter alia, what will be more fully brought out by and by, the reckless
and ﬁendish spirit which this practice at once engenders and

A3

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

12

exempliﬁes. As the life is more than meat, and the body than raiment,
humanity is something better and nobler than any physical beneﬁts
which knowledge can confer on the human race. Bodily health is
not the only or the highest end of man. He has a moral and religious
as well as a material nature; and if the interests of the two should
clash, or seem to clash, the higher must prevail. Knowledge may
come while “ wisdom lingers.”
Let her know her place;

She is the second, not the ﬁrst.

A higher hand must make her mild.

My main contention then is that, even supposing their utility for
medical science were demonstrated, which is very far from being» the
fact, these cruel experiments on living animals would be wholly in-
compatible with the elementary principles of natural morality, to say
nothing of that loftier moral standard which Christianity introduced
into the world. And I begin by observing that here the morality even
of Paganism puts us to shame. There is, indeed, a darker side to that
picture of the Greek or Roman world, on which we have been wont
from boyhood to gaze with admiration in the splendour of its
glorious noon, and whose literature is still cherished as the “ everlast-
ing consolation” of mankind; so dark a side that, “if the inner life of
that period had been revealed to us, we should have turned away
from the sight with loathing and disgust.” * Yet the literature and
’poetry of a period when the rights of the weak were little regarded,
when women, and children, and slaves could be treated as mere
chattels, the catspaws and playthings of their master or of the State
—the age of the cryptez'a, the ergastala, the paedagogia—is full of touch-
ing legends about animals and the affection entertained towards them.
Lucretius, Virgil, Ovid, Catullus, Martial, Juvenal, all in different
ways bear witness to the prevalence of this sentiment. Animals
were protected by special legislation both in Greece and Rome, and
there are instances recorded by (Elian and Quinctilian of cruelty to
them being punished with death.+ It has sometimes been argued
that this merciful temper was rather discountenanced than promoted
by Christianity, which brought out into bolder relief the higher nature
and destiny of man. Such a deduction from Christian teaching
would, however, be worse than a paralogism. As Professor F.
Newman remarks, “to cut up a living horse day after day in order to
practise students in dissection [or, let me add, to crucify an animal
for several days merely that the spectators may see the progress of its

3* Jowett’s Epistles of St Paul, vol. ii, p. 71.

1- Professor Newman says, in Fraser’s Magazine, that this tenderness towards
animals 15 still more conspicuous among Brahminists and Buddhists.

 

 




18

suffering] ,* is a crime and abomination hardly less monstrous from his
not having an immortal soul.”+ Many theologians, indeed, consider
that animals have a future life; and the high authority of Bishop
Butler may of course be cited for that view, which is certainly my
own. But it must always remain matter of opinion only, and there is
no need, for the purposes of the argument, to insist upon it here. That
we should be surrounded by a world of living creatures of which we
know so little, though we are in constant intercourse with it, is any-
how marvellous enoughgt And whatever be the secret of their
present condition and future destiny, their very inferiority and
dependence on us, not to Speak at this moment of other consider-
ations, gives them that claim upon our kindness which the weak have
upon the strong, and which it has been a special function and glory
of Christianity to enforce. If “it is excellent to have a giant’s
strength,” it is no less “ tyrannous to use it like a giant ; ” and if,
again, that divine “ quality of mercy” which “is not strained” drops
on us, who deserve it so little, “like the gentle rain from heaven,”
how much more are we bound to exhibit it towards a race of beings
inferior indeed to ourselves, but creatures and ministers of the same
Almighty Power!

And in fact, just in proportion as the true spirit of Christianity has
been realised, this result has actually followed. The Lives of the
Saints in all ages are full of touching stories about their sympathy
with animals. Every one is familiar with the legends of St. Anthony
preaching to the ﬁshes, and St. Francis of Assisi to the birds. No
reader of Montalembert’s ﬂfomes cl’Oceidem will need to be reminded
of the beautiful chapter on “ les memes et les betes frames,” where
many of these stories are collected as illustrating the words of the
Patriarch of old, “the beasts of the earth shall be at peace with
thee. ”§ The author adds that all contemporary writers speak of the

* This incident is recorded by Sir W. Fcrgusson.

1" In F razer’s ﬁlagazine for April, 1876.

I No apology can be needed for reminding my readers of the following remark-
able passage in one of Dr. Newman’s Oxford sermons on the “Invisible World”
(Pamela. Sermons, vol. iv. pp. 205, 206) z—“ Can anything be more marvellous or
startling, unless we were used to it, than that we should have about us a race of
beings whom we do but see, and as little know their state or can describe their
interests, or their destiny, as we can tell of the inhabitants of the sun and moon?
It is, indeed, a very overpowering thought, when we get to ﬁx our minds on it, that
we familiary use, I may say hold intercourse with, creatures who are as much
strangers to us, as mysterious, as if they were the fabulous unearthly beings, more
powerful than man, yet his slaves, which Eastern superstitions have invented.
They have, apparently, passions, habits, and a certain accountableness, but all
is mystery about them. We do not know whether they can sin or not, whether

they are under punishment, whether they are to live after this life.”
§ Job v. 23.

Alla

 




14

supernatural dominion ascribed to pious monks and hermits over the
animal world as recalling the primeval innocence of our ﬁrst parents
in Paradise, And whatever may be thought of the literal accu-
racy of some of these tales, or of their miraculous incidents, they
afford equally conclusive evidence of contemporary Christian feeling
on the relations of man to the lower animals; nor can there be any
doubt of their containing at least a considerable substratum of fact.
To Francis of Assisi, 6.9., the Saint whom the Catholic and Protes-
tant world have agreed to honour, birds, beasts, and ﬁshes were alike
dear ; the OX and ass were memorials of Bethlehem, the lamb was an
emblem of the true Paschal Sacriﬁce; “he cherished the wild doves
in his breast, he tamed the hungry wolf, he called the robins and bul-
ﬁnches to him, and bade them sing merrily the praises of God.”
It could not well be otherwise, for the spirit of Christianity is a
spirit of gentleness and mercy after His example who was meek and
lowly of heart. .

And even under the sterner dispensation of the Old Law there
are unequivocal indications, as in the passage quoted just now from
the Book of Job, of this compassionate kindness for animals. We
have “the little ewe lamb” in Nathan’s parable; the favourite dog
of Tobias which followed him through his journey and heralded
his return; the exhortation to “ open our mouth for the dumb ;” the
prohibition to muzzle the OX treading out the corn ; and, above all, the
memorable passage where the “much cattle” as well as the sixscore
thousand children are included in the plea of Divine compassion for
sparing Ninevehﬁl‘ not to speak of the familiar prophecies—literally
fulﬁlled in countless tales of the hagiology—of a day when the wolf
and lamb shall feed together, and the leopard lie down with the kid,
and the calf with the young lion, and a little child shall lead them;
all of which, whatever be their precise meaning, point in the same
direction. It is, indeed, obvious from St. Paul’s language, if we will
take it as it stands, and not as it may be obscured by some conventional

 

 

* Jonah iv. 11, “Jumenta multa,” Vulg. I am assured, on good authority,
that the Hebrew word rendered cattle (behémahJ means, originally, the dumb
or irrational creatures generically, in which sense it is contrasted with man in
Ex. xi, 7; xii. 12; Ezek. xiv. 13, 17, 19, 21. It is also used for quadrupeds, as.
in EX. ix, 25 ; Prov. xxx. 30 ; and in contradistinction from birds or reptiles, as in
Gen. vi. 7; Dent. xxviii. 26 ; Is. xviii. 6. It is used, lastly, in a more restricted sense
for tame, as opposed to wild, animals, as in Gen. vii. 14; xxxiv. 23; xxxvi. 6;
xlvii, 17. The antithesis in Jonah iv. 11 suggests the ﬁrst and most comprehensive
use of the word, as opposed to man; but, inasmuch as there would not probably
be many Wild animals in Nineveh, this meaning virtually coincides with the last, of
tame or domestic animals. And thus the passage bears immediately on that very
class of animals which supplies the ordinary victims of vivisection.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




15

gloss of our own, that “the whole creation,” rational and irrational,
has beneﬁted or will beneﬁt in some way by the Incarnation, though
we may not as yet know howﬁ" Clearly, then, the lesson of sympathy
for the animal world is written in characters too plain to be ignored,
alike in the text of Scripture and in the example of those who have
most closely walked with God.

But perhaps it will be argued that, as this does not disprove our
right to kill animals for food, so neither does it disprove our right
to torture them for the beneﬁt of our health by the advancement of
medical science.‘ The alleged beneﬁt, as has been already pointed out,
is at best a very problematical one; but let that pass. It is thought
by some that men willbecome less carnivorous as civilisation advances,
and, of course, if so, our relations with the animal world would become
still more friendly; but on this point I express no opinion. To kill
is one thing ; to torture is quite another. Both Scripture and Reason
sanction capital punishment for sufﬁcient cause, as the same autho-
rities sanction killing animals for our own sustenance or in self-defence ;
but the conscience of Christendom has long since condemned the
torture of our fellow-men on any pretext whatever, nor would the
legal sanction of such a practice be tolerated for a day in any civilised
country. But the torture of our fellow-creatures, though lower in the
scale of being, is hardly, if at all, less abhorrent to the law of justice,
to say nothing of the law of love. It is not necessary to raise the
question in its abstract form whether animals have rights; what is
certain is that men have duties towards them. “A righteous man
regardeth the life of his beast.”1L And there is something revolting to
the mind in subjecting innocent creatures dependent on our kindness
——often the most affectionate and trustful of the Whole animal race——
to tortures which in this day 'no one but a Turk would dare to inﬂict

9* Rom. viii. 19. et seq. See Alford in 100.

1" It is clear from the language of Scripture that the “dominion” over
animals bestowed on man by the Creator does not include the right to torture
them. It did not originally even include the right to kill them for food, which
was ﬁrst granted to Noah after the ﬂood, in the words, “Every living thing
that moveth shall be meat for you; even as the‘green herb have I given you all
things.” (Gen. ix. 3.) By the original grant, "every green herb” only was
assigned “for meat” to man and beast alike. (Gen. i. 29, 30.) It need hardly
be said that “dominion” over the animals, like all rights of government, implies
from the nature of the case a correlative duty of protection, and that torture is a
gross violation, or rather reversal, of that duty. The “ covenant” of God was
established not only with man, but also with “every living thing that is with
you of all ﬂesh, of the fowls, of the cattle, and of every beast of the earth.”
(Gen. ix. 10, 15.) The Scriptural argument is worked out With much force and
accuracy of detail in Vivisection Viewed under the Light of Divine Revelation, by
M. A. Cambridge. (London, Ridgway.)

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

16

on the most criminal and degraded of mankind. It makes one’s
blood boil to hear cats and dogs described on high scientiﬁc authority,
cited by Lord Coleridge in his speech on the Act of 1876, as “ carni-
vorous animals of great value for the purpose of research!” Is it

not utterly revolting to treat as the corpus vile for scientiﬁc investiga—l

tion—or, still worse, for the illustration of a popular lecture—the
dog, the trusted companion, champion, friend of man, his only true
friend according to Byron—and though we must condemn the
cynical misanthropy of the epitaph, no one who knows dogs will
think the poet’s praise of his favourite’s “honest heart” one whit too
strong—the dog, whose faithful devotion to his master never wavers,
whose intelligence is so keen that we almost marvel, as we gaze into
his great brown eyes, to ﬁnd he cannot speak—is it not a hideous
crime to place this wise, loving, trustful friend under the dissecting
knife, or on the cross for long hours or days of agony, even if some
remedy for human ailments could thereby be discovered, of which there
is no shadow of proof? Yet no less than 14,000 of these noble crea-
tures were tortured to death in ten years only in Dr. Schiff’s laboratory
at Florence, before he was driven by the outraged humanity even of
Italian public opinion—not. apt to be over-sensitive in such matters——
from the post he had so grievously abused, only, alas ! to re-open his
nineteenth-century inquisition at Genevaf“

But I have more to say about the scientiﬁc plea, which, if it were

3“ Take the following account of . an experiment he performed on a dog, given by
M. Brachet, a French vivisector, in a paper read before the French Institute, and
which obtained a prize:——“I inspired a dog with a great aversion for me by
plaguing or inﬂicting some pain or other upon it as often as I saw it. When this
feeling was carried to its height, so that the animal became furious every time it
saw and heard me, I put out its eyes. I could then appear before it without its
manifesting any aversion. I spoke, and immediately its barkings and furious
movements proved the passion which animated it. I destroyed the drums of its
ears, and disorganised the internal ear as much as I could. When an intense
inﬂammation had rendered him deaf, I ﬁlled up his ears with wax. He could no
longer hear at all. Then I went to his side. spoke aloud, and even caressed it
Without its falling into a rage— it seemed even sensible of my caresses.”

This happened, it is true, some ﬁfty years ago; but the horrors of Vivisection
have not diminished, but greatly increased and spread over a much wider area
since then. Dr. Schiff’s assistant defended the abominations of the Florence
laboratory in a pamphlet, the tone of which may be sufﬁciently gathered from the
cynical effrontery of the title, Gli Animali Illartiri. The following is from Mr.
James Cowie’s account of a visit last year to Alfort. I regret to be obliged to add
that his representations to the French Government, backed by a memorial signed-—
greatly to their honour—by 500 English veterinary surgeons, have led only to a very
partial reduction of these atrocities. It was previonsly usual to perform no fewer than
sixty or seventy operations upon a horse! the new regulation limits the number to
ﬁve or six “severe” and ten “minor” experiments. The horses are expected
to be thankful for very small mercies! ‘

 

 




 

 

 

17

true as far as results are concerned, could only be maintained on
the detestably immoral and anti-Christian principle, popularly but
mistakenly attributed to the Jesuit Order, that the end justiﬁes the
means, and might is the measure of right. The only colourable
pretext for the torture of animals, inadequate as it is, rests on the
hope of thereby discovering new truths in medical science for the
beneﬁt of man. Not only, however, has this pretext, oaleat qmmtmn,
never been made good; to a great extent it is not even an honest
one. Some evidence has been given already—and it might be indeﬁ-
nitely enlarged from the Blue Book of the Royal Commission—of
the wanton recklessness with which these barbarous experiments on
living animals are multiplied out of mere curiosity or 't’nsoucimwe, and
the sort of effect produced on the minds of operators and spectators,
who are only too likely, as Dr. Haughton expresses it, to be educated
into “a set of devils.”* The point I wish particularly to insist
upon here is one very distinctly emphasised in Dr. Acland’s
evidence before the Commission, viz., that the number of persons
in this and other countries who are becoming biologists, without
being medical men, is very much increasing. “There are,” he adds,
“a number of persons now who are engaged in the pursuit of

“On the occasion of a visit I made last year to Paris, I took an opportunity
of going to the Veterinary College at Alfort. I there saw two cases of vivisection
on two horses, which shocked me very much. One of the animals had just died
under the torture of the knife; its tormentors had commenced cutting into its
larynx, continuing down the oesophagus, trachea, to the thorax and abdomen, ex-
posing the blood-vessels and nerves. It appeared that the whole internal organs
had been deliberately dissected and examined, which must have occupied several
hours, during which the wretched creature had suffered a painful, lingering death,

orno anaesthetics were —and, as I was informed, seldom or ever are—used.

“The other unfortunate animal had for some time been under the torture, and
was still alive, and occasionally moaning most piteously. The hoofs and soles had
been out into and wrenched off with pincers, which left the feet one shapeless
mass of gore. Two of the pupils were sitting on the animal, and each was in
the act of applying a red-hot iron to the various parts—in fact, all within
their reach—of the body, making deep fantastic-shaped corrosions. By this time
the poor creature was so much exhausted that, although unbound, it was unable to
make any show of resistance. A shiver came occasionally over its body, and it
would every now and again raise its head and look back wofully and wistfully to
its tormentors, as if pleading for mercy.” For further and yet more hideous
illustrations of these devilries, and of their reflex effect on the human ﬁends who
practise them, see Miss Cobbe’s recent address at Southampton, Report of Illeeting,
October 16, 1878. (Nichols & Sons.)

*“I would shrink with horror'from accustoming large classes of young men
to the sight of animals under vivisection. I believe that many of them would
become cruel and hardened, and would go away and repeat those eXperiments reck-
lessly. Science would gain nothing, and the world would have let loose upon it
a set ofyozmg devils” (1888).

 




18

these subjects for the purpose of acquiring abstract knowledge.
That is quite a different thing. I am not at all sure that the mere
acquisition of knowledge is not a thing having some dangerous and
mischevious tendencies in it. Now it has become a profession to
discover, and to discover at any cost.” And accordingly Dr. Car-
penter expressly denies that any limit should be placed on the suffer-
ings inﬂicted on animals, whether the application of the anticipated
knowledge to the relief of human suffering be apparent or not. Dr.
Moxon stated in the Hunterian Oration for last year that under our
modern system there is growing up “ a generation of physicians who
are so imbued with the scientiﬁc spirit as absolutely to forget, in the
highest of issues, that their profession has any practical aim.” It is
not difﬁcult to foresee what must be the reﬂex action on their own
minds of the cultivation of this kind of “scientiﬁc spirit.” And,
Professor Rolleston tells us that the besetting sin of all absorbing
studies makes itself felt here as elsewhere by “ lifting men so entirely
above the ordinary sphere of duty, as to betray them into selﬁshness
and unscrupulous neglect of duty; ” and he quotes a very signiﬁcant
statement of Mr. Skey’s, that “a man who has the reputation of a
splendid operator is ever a just object of suspicion.” And if the
ardour of scientiﬁc research, which may become just as vehement
and ungovernable a passion as the passions of the bodily nature, pro-
duces these effects on the higher minds, we cannot be surprised at
Dr. Hoggan’s testimony to his own experience of its effects on the
lower. “The idea of the good of humanity,” he tells us, “was
simply out of the question, and would have been laughed at, the
great aim being to keep with, or get ahead of, one’s contemporaries
in science.” And he elsewhere describes how he has heard the pro-
fessor sneeringly reprimand “ economy” in the use of victims, while
the students mimicked the cries of the dogs lying on the torture
trough ! Shocking as it is, that is only what might be expected from
the well-known brutalising—I recall the word, for it is a libel, not on
the vivisectors but their victims—the hardening effect on the moral
nature of an habitual contemplation of suffering without any effort to
relieve it, to which Butler calls attention, not to dwell on the “ morbid
curiosity” stimulated by these ghastly exhibitions, referred to in Dr.
Antony’s evidence. Yet Professor Huxley, in his “Lessons on
Elementary Physiology,” described in the preface as “a handbook
for teachers and learners in boys’ and girls’ schools,” advises the per-
formance of these experiments either by or in presence of the
children, on account of the great superiority of knowledge “ sought in
the living animal to knowledge gained from books.”* He even con-

 

9‘ In a later work (American Addresses) Professor Huxley says “he has long

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

19

tributed to the February number of the Fortnightly Review of 1878
an elaborate and almost passionate jeremiade over the degenerate
“moral sense” of “ this present enlightened and softly-nurtured, not
to say sentimental age,” when men are less ready than were the
“favoured friends” of that model Sovereign, James 1., “to inﬂict
pain and death in a good cause” (t'.e. the cause of Vivisection), and
are slow to understand that “ he who will not save human life when
he could do so by sacriﬁcing a hecatomb of animals, is an accomplice
in murder.” * How far the plea of saving human life is to the purpose
we have already had some opportunity of judging.

There is another point of view, however, from which the attitude
of modern science towards the subject may be regarded. Science is
the master passion of the present, as religion was of a former,
age, and it is reproducing with a terrible fidelity, but with far less
excuse, the worst excesses which it censured so severely in its rival.
To cite once more the weighty testimony of Professor Francis
Newman, who will hardly be accused of dogmatic or ecclesiastical
prepossessions: “Science was going to set Religion right. She
held up her torch to illuminate the deformities of Superstition,
and display the wickedness of Religion; yet now Science has become
a rival of the tortures of the Inquisition [in a country, let me add,
which the Inquisition was never suffered to invade], and by increase
of knowledge has learnt to torment still more ingeniously/W There is,
indeed, an amusing incongruity, if the subject were not too serious
for amusement, in the quarter from which emanate the most zealous
Torquemadas of this new evangel of tears and blood.

It might naturally have been anticipated that those who are
never weary of assuring us that, instead of being, as we had fondly '
imagined, a little lower than the angels, we are at best only a little
higher than the apes, would be the last to ignore the claims of
their poorer but not very distant relations. Yet Professor Huxley,
as we have seen, is one of the most uncompromising apologists of
the worst horrors of vivisection ; and Professor Tyndall has announced
the notable discovery that the “ Unknown and Unknowable ”——what-
ever else we do or do not know about Him—“is to be propiti-
atecl ”— the phrase is his own—by the torture of His (or Its ‘2)

advocated the study of biology being made a part of ordinary 3011001 training,”
but does not mention Vivisection.

*6 Fortnightly Review, February, 1878, pp. 185, 189. Miss Cobbe justly observes,
in her address at Southampton, that “Vivisectors mean to go on torturing more
‘hecatombs,’ and more and more ad inﬁnitum, till there is a hell 0f animals in every
town.”

1‘ Fraser’s ﬁlagazine for April, 1876.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

20

sentient creatures on the Moloch altar of “physiological investiga-
tion ;” and furthermore, that any attempt to restrict this peculiar
form of propitiatory “ worship, chieﬂy of the silent sort,” is a “ hideous
cruelty.” The true explanation of this seeming inconsistency is not
indeed far to seek. The characteristic temper of modern science—-
not, of course, of all scientiﬁc men—is essentially materialistic, and
therefore cruel, since it recognises no right but the right of the
strongest, the “ law of natural selection.” “ The simultaneous loss,”
it has been observed,” “from the morals of our ‘ advanced’ scientiﬁc
men of all reverent sentiment towards beings above them, as towards
beings below, is a curious and instructive phenomenon.”* It is the
extreme antithesis of that temper which led St. Francis to call the
wolf his brother, and the larks and starlings his sisters. Why, indeed,
should those whose only deity is a negation, or an “Unknown,” or a
‘..‘ stream of tendency,” recognise duties towards those beneath, when
they can acknowledge no obligation to One above them? Science
left to itself, at its best estate, "‘ is earthly of the mind,” till it is quick—
ened by the breath of that better wisdom which comes from Heaven. A

Meanwhile, the lofty pretensions of science would alone supply a .
cenclusive answer to the stock argument. from the cruelty of ﬁeld
sports, so pertinaciously urged by the scientiﬁc apologists of Vivisec~
tion. There is no doubt a simpler and very sufﬁcient reply. When
I hear the cruelties of hunters and anglers alleged in deprecation of
taking any steps to restrain the far worse cruelties inﬂicted in the
name of science on a far wider and more highly organised and sensi-
tive class of animals, I am irresistibly reminded of the threadbare
argument of our Turkophile apologists for the wholesale outrage and
massacre of Eastern Christians, derived from Russian atrocities
in Poland in a former day, which, however, at the time they
never breatheda syllable or lifted a ﬁnger to repress. It would be
quite enough to reply in either case that one wrong cannot justify
another, and that we must attend to one thing at a time, Schemes of
universal philanthropy usually end—like the “Lay of the Needy
Knifegrinder.” And so in the present matter, if all that is urged
against ﬁeld sports be admitted, that would be no reason for con-
doning the introduction of a new and far deadlier“ form of torture.
But, in fact, there is no more necessity here, than in dealing with the
Eastern question, to fall back on this very sufﬁcient answer to a
transparently sophistical objection. The alleged analogy between
ﬁeld sports and vivisection breaks down at every point. I am not

9“ There is a striking and eloquent passage on this subject in Miss Cobbe’s

address, delivered at the Westminster Palace Hotel, The Alaster oft/13 Dog and (/21:
ﬁlms-[er of [he 111a”. (Nichols & Sons).

 

 




 

21

prepared to deny that hunting and ﬁshing may be fairly open to
criticism on this score, or that the gradual advance of that more
tender and merciful spirit which is the out—growth of Christian civil-
isation may eventually put them down—and still more horse-racing,
which is far crueller, and in every way more indefensible, than hunting
——as it has already suppressed cock-ﬁghting, bull-baiting (except in
Spain), and other barbarous pastimes once popular among us; the
common saying that “the fox rather enjoys it” seems at least to
require conﬁrmation. But I do say that to compare hunting with
Vivisection, and seek to excuse the latter by the former, is simply to
raise a false issue; it is either a shuﬁle or a mare’s nest. The nature
of the action, the temper it fosters and postulates in the agent, the
number and quality of the victims, and all the surrounding circum-
stances, differ. tote cwlo. Thus the sufferings of a hunted hare or a
fox despatched as soon as it is captured, however great—and I am
not defending the practice—cannot be compared for a moment with
the slow agony of a dog, one of the most highly sensitive creatures,
—not to say of hundreds of dogs, which would be the true propor-
tion,——gradually mangled to death through long hours or days of
intermittent and excruciating torture. Still less is there any analogy
betWeen the mental attitude of the vivisector and the fox~hunter
towards their respective victims. Hunting is in itself a healthy and
invigorating, though it may incidentally be a cruel, sport; but no part
of the enjoyment is derived from the sufferings of the victim, which
there is indeed every disposition to curtail as much as possible.
On the other hand, the whole interest and excitement of a physio-
logical experiment on a living animal, both to operators and spectators,
is necessarily dependent on closely watching its contortions on the
‘ rack, which their scientiﬁc training enables and binds them to appre-
ciate minutely. I am of course quite aware of the intellectual and
philanthropic motive pleaded in defence of such performances, with
how much reason we have already seen. I am also aware of the too
abundant conﬁrmation producible from various quarters of Dr.
Hoggan’s testimony as to the true motive being usually a very
different one, and of Dr. Haughton’s deliberately avowed opinion
that “science would gain nothing, and the world would have let
loose upon it a set of young devils.” It is to be feared that Dr.
Scott’s experience, who “never knew an operation (however excru-
ciating) cause the least abhorrence to a medical student,” is very far
from being exceptional.

And this brings me to the main point of my answer to the ﬁeld-
sport fallacy. The more highly the pretensions of Science are exalted,
. the more absolutely is the plea of the scientiﬁc tormentor refuted out

 




 

 

 

22

of ‘his own mouth. Science—~that is, physical science—in this day
does, and Sport does not, claim to dominate the world. No one
would choose a fox—hunter or a fowler, as such, for his “ guide, philo-
sopher, and friend” in all the deeper concerns and interests of life.
But the leaders of science do claim, as such, like the “philosophers”
of Plato’s—as now of Comte’s—Republic, a right to rule the world;
and the claim is more or less widely acknowledged. And hence, while
it would be very deplorable if the next generation of our sportsmen
were to grow up, as nobody prefesses to expect they will, into “a set
of devils,” the universal detestation they would rouse would effectu-
ally counteract any permanent injury their example or inﬂuence
might otherwise entail. But it becomes a much graver matter if this
diabolical taint is to infect the priesthood of Science, as they are
sometimes called, who aspire to succeed to all, and more than all, the
dominion wielded by the mediaeval hierarchy over the intellect and
conscience of mankind. That would be “poisoning the wells” with
a vengeance. It is precisely because the victims of our new Inquisition
are to be solemnly sacriﬁced on the altar of “the inscrutable
Power,” which Professor Tyndall bids us “ propitiate ” by this
scientiﬁc cult, that the duty becomes doubly imperative of pro-
testing in the name of conscience, of religion, nay of the higher
intellectual as well as the higher moral nature of man, against the
behests of a creed as godless as it is inhuman. The old difﬁculty of
Plato’s Republic recurs, Quis custodiet custodes? If cur masters and
teachers, who are supposed to be the lights of the world, are them-
selves to be foremost in recalling an age when “the earth was full of
darkness and cruel habitations,” then out of their own mouths they
must be judged; the salt has lost it savour, and is only ﬁt to be
trodden under foot of men. From the casual recklessness or
barbarity of a rough sportsman we might afford to turn away with a
shudder of disgust, though we cannot excuse it; “ cruelty in the garb
and pretensions of science,” as Professor Newman puts it, is a new
horror, and one that cannot with impunity be ignored.

There is a further consideration, which I almost shrink from
mentioning, because it may seem to have a ring of selﬁshness about
it, yet it must not be altogether passed over. We are not pleading
only the cause of the lower animals, or of the moral nature of man.
We are also maintaining, though to our medical Vivisectionists it may
sound like a paradox to say so, the material interests of man. “ The
experiment,” said Dr. Rutherford, after the slow torture of his thirty-
six dogs was consummated, “must also be tried upon men before
a conclusion can be drawn.” Just so. And how long will that
second experiment be delayed? Until our scientiﬁc experts have

 




 

23

educated or hoodwinked the nation up to the point of tolerating it,
and not a day longer. Indeed, I am not at all sure that the day is
not already dawning on us. * Both Lord Coleridge and Lord Shaftess
bury called attention to this point in the House of Lords, and
“Lewis Carroll” has discussed it in detail with his wonted vigour in
the Fortnightly Review. And why not? If the weak have no rights
wherever the advancc of knowledge, real or supposed,-—beneﬁcent
knowledge we will call it, for argument’s sake,———is in question, which
is the underlying principle of every defence of Vivisection, then it is
to-day for thee, to-morrow for me. The law which applies to the
lower animals must extend by parity of reasoning to the weaklings
of the human race, and the dog will inevitably be called to share his
torture-trough with criminals, idiots, lunatics, paupers, foundlings,
and generally “him that hath no helper.” As Professor Newman
says, “an inevitable logic would in a couple of generations [if not
sooner] ‘unteach all tenderness towards human suffering, if such
horrors are endured, and carry us back into greater heartlessness
than that of the worst barbarians.” Nor should we have any right to
complain. Logic is an inexorable taskmaster, and in accepting the
premisses of Vivisection we have virtually committed ourselves to this
unwelcome but most legitimate conclusion. It is but reversing the

familiar lesson of the “ Ancient Mariner :”
He prayeth best who loveth best
All things both great and small;
For the dear God who loveth us,
He made and loveth all.

When once we have got rid of a personal Creator, and disclaimed
all bonds of kindly fellowship with “bird and beast”—albeit our
kindred by “ evolution”—it is no long step to unlearn all sympathy
for human pain. The high priest of Science, to whose well-trained
eye the dog—whose loving ﬁdelity has inspired the artist’s pencil and
the poet’s song, and won the hearts of men, from Homer’s day to
our own—is degraded into a “carnivorous animal, highly valuable
for purposes of research,” will not long be restrained by any maudlin

9* Lord Coleridge, in the debate in the Lords on the Act of 1876, referred to
some frightful statements in a letter of Mr. Maitland’s to the Examiner now lying
before me, as to the treatment of paupers in our hospitals “for purposes of
research.” Mr. Holt quoted from the Lancet, in his speech last year in the
House of Commons, a report of similar occurrences in the Royal Inﬁrmary at
Glasgow, the details of which are supplied in the appendix. It is notorious
how strong an antipathy to hOSpitals is already prevalent among the poorer classes,
and even among domestic servants, who would often prefer running any risk of
health or life to entering them, because they are afraid, as they say, of being
experimented upon. It will be difﬁcult after recent revelations to meet these
objections satisfactorily.

 




 

24

sentiment of pity from plunging his scalpel into the quivering ﬂesh of
a lunatic or an infant, when his Moloch demands the sacriﬁce.*

If, then, the question of Vivisection was to be decided on grounds
of self-interest only, we might well set against the interested hope of
some possible but very problematical acquisition to medical knowledge
in the future, for the relief of man, the certain and imminent danger
of the human frame itself—which is of course far the most “ valuable
for purposes of research”—-—being treated as the comms tile for fresh
experimentation. And as an argumentum ad homincm the reply
would be conclusive. But I do not care to stake the issue on this
lower ground. It is no question for me of striking a balance between

. material proﬁt and loss; it is the higher nature of man that is im-

perilled, wherein consists his true dignity, and which is formed after
the image and similitude of Him who made it. Even if the material

advantage to ourselves were altogether and demonstrably on the side of ~

the tormentors, and without taking into account the claims of the ani-
mals, the principle would equally hold good, “He that will save his life
[by such means] shall lose it.” No progress in medical skill, though
it were ten times as great as the most sanguine votaries of the modern
School of Torture venture to predict, could compensate for the deep
and damning degradation of all that is noblest and most Godlike in
the nature of man himself. It would be a hideous backwater in the
advancing tide of Christian civilsation, which has ever moved in the
direction of a tenderer consideration for the feelings and the very
prejudices of others, a more scrupulous recognition of the rights of the
weak against the strong, and has thus by degrees elevated the con-
dition of women, children, slaves, prisoners, subjects, to something
very different from what it was in the ancient world. If we are told
that the science of morals is progressive, I reply that such progress
as would include the Vivisection programme is, like Turkish reform,
“ advancing backwards.” It is not to take a forward step in the path
of mercy, but to forge the chains of a fresh and intolerable oppression.

A further remark will be in place here. Whatever account
moralists may prefer to give of the origin and true nature of the vice

* This is no mere logical deduction. Towards the end of the last century a
system of infusing the blood of one living animal into the veins of another, for
experimental purposes, was devised by a Dr. Brown. It was soon found that
human blood was the most effectual instrument for the purpose, and two ruf-
ﬁans, Burke and Hare by name, made a lucrative trade of kidnapping boys in the
dark“ wynds” of Edinburgh, and selling them, while their blood was yet Warm,
to medical practitioners, who wanted them for the purpose for which vivisectors
want their victims now. The law was at length happily brought te bear on this
beneﬁcent variety of “ propitiatory sacriﬁce.” Burke and Hare were hanged, and
some of the authors of the “Brownonian system ” were transported.

 




 

25

of cruelty, whether it be regarded as instinctive or acquired, as an-
ultimate passion, or the indirect gratiﬁcation of some more subtle
feeling—questions too wide for parenthetiéal discussion here—one
thing at least all experience conspires to prove: it never stands
alone. It is the foster-mother and inseparable companion of the
vilest passions to which fallen ﬂesh is heir. No one Who is but
moderately acquainted with the condition of the old Greek and
Roman world, as their own literature reveals it to us—as the literature
of the Pagan revival, just now rising into ominous popularity among
us, only too faithfully recalls it—can question this. A passing refer-
ence will sufﬁce to the society of the Roman Empire, dancing, to use
the poet’s simile, over the treacherous ashes of the volcano charged
with its avenging doom, in the foul delirium of a revelry of lust and
blood. Nor will I dwell here on the ghastly illustration of the same
phenomenon exhibited in such individual examples as Nero or the
Marshal de Betz—the original of our fabulous “Bluebeard.” If
the wisdom that cometh from above is ﬁrst pure, then peaceable,
gentle and full of mercy, the converse equally holds good; the
unmerciful are also the impure. There seems, indeed, some reason for
believing that cruelty is the master vice from which all others spring,
or into which they may ultimately be resolved, as the author of evil
was himself “a murderer from the beginning.” And it has justly
been observed* that, if deliberate cruelty is the worst and most
unpardonable of vices, the prime source of moral excellence must be
sought in the opposite pole. It is at all events certain that cruelty,
like falsehood—and the two are closely related as may be seen, (2.9.
in George Eliot’s masterly sketch of “Tito”+—has a more than
ordinary tendency, not only to grow rapidly by indulgence, but when
indulged to demoralise the whole character.

Nor will that process be arrested for a single hour because the
cruelty is practised in the name of science. The secret of moral
perfection is not to be learnt in the laboratory, and will never
be revealed to minds which are trained in scientiﬁc methods
alone. There was a period when theology encroached on the
domain of physical science; science has its innings now, and
shows every disposition to use, not to say abuse, the opportunity
to the uttermost, and, having confessedly achieved much, to usurp
dominion over all. Every special study has from the nature of
the case an inherent tendency to warp and contract the mind
and it is therefore no charge against scientiﬁc investigation, nor any

* By Goldwin Smith.
1' (EL/Freeman’s remark on “the three abiding Ottoman vices of cruelty, lust,
and faithlessness.”

 




 

 

26

disparagement of its value within its own sphere, to say that it does
in fact necessarily tend—as Sir William Hamilton insisted in regard
to mathematical study—to ﬁX the mind in a particular groove, and
thus to form an intellectual temper which is not favourable to the
cultivation of the gentler emotions any more than to the habit of
religious faith. Physical science deals with objects of sight and touch
patent to the senses, and which therefore produce a more vivid
impression on the mind than moral and religious ideas, whose
evidence is no less sure, but not equally obtrusive. This, I repeat,
is a fact, not a fault. It cannot be helped any more than the tend-
ency of intellectual labour to enfeeble the body, or of violent
bodily exercise to deaden the intellectual faculties. But it points to
a serious practical danger, requiring to be taken into account and
guarded against; and the ﬁrst step towards guarding against it is
frankly to acknowledge its reality.

 

W. AUSTIN, Printer, 19, Leader Street and 82, College Street, Chelsea.

 

 

 




 

John Hodges’ List of New Publications.

 

New and Important Work by THOMAS W. MOSSMAN, B.A., Oxon.,
Rector and Vicar of East and West Torrington, Lincolnshire.

A. Translation into English of the Commentary upon

the Gospels of Cornelius a Lapide. To be completed in 5 vols.
demy 8V0.

Vols. I. and II., demy 8vo, 12s. each, now ready.
Vol. III. completing SS. Matthew and Mark’s Gospels. In the
Press.

“A very mine of research and exegetical learning of the rarest kind.”—
Standard.

“It is one of those few ‘ Books which are Books,’ an unfailing magazine of
instruction and devotion of the profoundest views of holy Scripture and theology
in general, and one of the most valuable and important recently issued from the
press.”— Church Review.

“ We congratulate the translator on the result of his work ; he has conferred
a real boon upon English readers.”—T/ze Pilot. _

“The Commentary is a world-historical work, and well deserves translating
and reprinting. We cordially commend it to our readers.”—English Independent.

“ The translation is good, the sense is rendered truthfully, and in good
English; the sentences are terse and vigorous.”—Tab[et.

 

By the Rev. W. MICHELL, M.A., Inspector of Schools for the Diocese
of Bath and Wells.

The Gospel Story: A plain Commentary on the Four
GOSpels. Containing the Narrative of our blessed Lord’s Life and
Ministry. Dedicated by permission to the Rev. CANON LIDDON, D.D.
D.C.L., &c. 3 vols., fcap. 8vo, cloth, 3s. 6d. each. Fourth Thousand.
“ It is what it calls itself—a really ‘Plain Commentary on the Four GOSpels.’

It avoids the common faults of diﬁuseness and vagueness, and gives real expla-

nation, followed by real practical application; and though the words are plain

and the sentences short, the teaching is high and spiritual."—— Guardian.

 

Cur Curate’s Budget. Complete in 120 Numbers at
3d. ; also in 20 vols. cloth, with frontispiece, 2s. each.
*** This would be a capital set of Books to present to a Village or School
Library, Ship’s Cabin, or Servants’ Hall; the Numbers are also useful for Mothers’
Meetings.

 

The Four Temperaments. A Course of Lent Sermons,
to which are added several occasional Sermons, preached in St.
Mary’s Church, Taunton, by the Rev. W. R. CLARK, M.A., Pre-
bendary of Wells and Vicar of Taunton. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.

“ Thoughtful, discriminative, and practical.”———Scottislz Guardian.

 

Reﬂections delivered during Mid-day Celebrations
of Holy Communion in the Church of St. Mary-le-Strand. By
ALFRED BOWEN EVANS, D.D., late Rector. Crown 8vo, 6s.

Church or Dissent: An Appeal to Holy Scripture.
Addressed to Dissenters. By T. P. GARNIER, M.A., Rector of Cran-
worth with Southburgh, Norfolk, and late Fellow of All Souls’
College, Oxford. Sixth Thousand. 2s. 6d.

 




 

John Hodges’ List of New Publications.

 

 

 

    

A Popular History of the Crusades. By the Rev.
W. E. DUTTON, Rector of Monstone. With a Preface by the Rev.
William Denton, M.A. Crown 8vo, 6s.

 

Priestcraft and Progress. Lectures and Sermons by

' STEWART D. HEADLAM, B.A., late Curate of Bethnal Green. Price
2s. 6d. [Just ready.

The Lives of the Saints. By the Rev. S. BARING-

GOULD, M.A. This important work is now complete in 15 vols,
crown 8vo, handsomely bound in cloth, bevelled boards, with
frontispiece, price £5 5s., or single volumes, price 7 8. 6d.

“Mr. Baring-Gould tells the most graceful legends in a style equally graceful
and fascinating, and with a distinctiveness and elaboration of minute details
which show plainly that he is a consummate master of the poetic art. He has
accomplished a most arduous task most successfully.”—-T/ze Times.

“He tells his stories with much simplicity, feeling, and grace. His ‘Lives of
the Saints ’ must be pronounced a decided success.”-—Spectat07'.

“It is a book with which every ecclesiastical library ought to be supplied.”
——Lz'terary Clmrchman.

“It is a glorious collection, and the manner of telling the Legends is
delightful.”—illonthly Packet.

 

Lord Bacon’s “Philosophy.” A Criticism, to which
is added the “ Mental Process of Experience,” being an Essay read

at the Catholic Academy, J anuary, 1877, by the Rev. W. H. LAING,
D.D., Author of “What is Christianity?” Post 8v0, 3s. 6d.

Yorkshire Oddities, Incidents, and Strange Events.
2vols. CrOWn.8vo,10s.6d. Third Edition.

“This book deserves, and will ultimately obtain, a large sale. It is as
amusmg as Dean Ramsay’s famous work, and almost as instructive as Chambers’
Domestic Annals.”~— S/zeﬁeld Daily Telegraph.

 

 

Second and Cheaper Edition.
The Rev. Theephilus Gray and his Neighbours. By

PETER PYPER, Esq., Barrister—at-Law of the Outer Temple. 2 vols.

. crown Sve, 10s. Gd.

“ Surely no one but a clergyman or Mr. Anthony Trollope would be so much
at home in the many types of clerical character that meet us in these pages.
The book is clever, scholarly, and thoughtful, and has a few really pretty scenes.”
—-T/ie Graphic.

“ The Bishop and Mr. Gunter the Evangelist are two as well sketched and
illustrated characters as any that can be found out of the pages of Mr. Anthony
Trollope. Bishop Stubblegrass is equal to Bishop Preudie himself, which is
saying not a little.”——Nonconformist.

 

The Sacristy. A Quarterly Rev1ew of Eccleslastical
. Art and Literature. Parts I. to IX. 2s. 6d. each (all published).
Only a few Sets remain, and as it will not be reprinted it will
Speedily become valuable. A Set sent Carriage Paid on receipt of

£ 1 l
S .
\/\/\N\I\/\NVVW\/V\IW\I\/\. \IVWMV\

JOHN HODGES, 24, KING WILLIAM STREET, STRAND.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

l
, _,
, _

x _,_—4.. . _..

L—‘Ax—ﬁ—v 1. r




BY THE SAAIE AUTHOR.

THE FIRST AGE OF CHRISTIANITY and the CHURCH.
Translated from the German of J. I. VON DOLLINGER, D.D.,
D.C.L. Third Edition. 2 vols. Crown 8V0. 18s.

CATHOLIC ESCHATOLOGY AND UNIVERSALISM. An
Essay on the Doctrine of Future Retribution. Second Edition.
Revised and Enlarged. Crown 8vo. 7s. 6d.

THE CATHOLIC DOCTRINE OF THE ATONEMENT.
An Historical Inquiry into its Development in the Church, with
an Introduction on the Principle of Theological Developments.
Second Edition. 8vo. 10s. 6d.

LONDON: W. H. ALLEN 8: C0., 18, Waterloo Place, SW.

LECTURES ON THE RE-UNION OF THE CHURCHES.
Translated with Preface, from the German of J. I. VON DOL-
LINGER, D.D., D.C.L. Crown 8v0. 5s.

RECOLLECTIONS OF OBER—AMMERGAU IN 1871.

Crown 8vo. 3s. 6d.

AN EIRENICON OF THE EIGHTEENTH CENTURY.
Proposal for Catholic Communion. By a Minister of the
Church of England. New Edition, with Introduction, Notes,
and Appendices. 8vo. 10s. 6d.

RIVIN GTONS.
LONDON, OXFORD, AND CAMBRIDGE.

DR. PUSEY’F EIRENICON CONSIDERED IN RELATION
TO CATHOLIC UNITY. A Letter to the Rev. Father
LOCKHART. Second Edition. 8vo. 52s. 6d.

POEMS. Third Edition. Crown 8vo. 3s. 6d.
LONDON: R. \VASHBOURNE, 18A, Paternoster Row.

HISTORY OF THE COUNCILS OF THE CHURCH, Vol II.
Translated from the German of C. J. HEFELE, D.D., Bishop
of Rottenburg. 8v0. 12s. ’-

EDINBURGH: T. 8: T. CLARK.

 




