F.
yr:

“ e
9-!
*4

.

 

 

 

Mainichi

W

. Mmmrvrw —»Pv-' "av" -

y m ‘ .l—rﬁ'“"“""

 

. . - , .
' I
. 4 '-
m y I. I l
'. .-
'- .7
. D
. . . -E
.. .

 

 

Dedicated To International Understanding

(Illlﬁ4ﬁll3'fll3ltiﬂwﬁl)

 

Tuesday, March 10, 1992

 

cITEs delegate suspected illegalwildlife dealer

KYOTO -- Most of Indone-
sia's ofﬁcial delegation to an in-
ternational conference here on
pmtection of animals and plants
are wildlife traders and one has
been identiﬁed as a link in a
worldwide network of illegal
animal traders, Kyodo News
Service has learned.

An ofﬁcial list of the Indonesi-
an delegation to the Convention
on International Trade in Endan-
gered Species (CITES) conference
at the Kyoto International Con-
feren ce Center makes no mention

or” the business afﬁliation of the-

traders and indicates that 15 of the
lB-man mission are employees of
the Indonesian Forestry Depart-
ment.

Bot Sutisna Warraputra, head
of the delegation and director
general of the Indonesian Minis
try of Forestry, said 13 dealers in
animals and animal products were
allOwed onto the delegation after
they failed to meet a deadline for
applications as non-government
observers. _

Wanaputra said a compromise
solution worked out with CITES
allowed the dealers to attend as

members'of the delegation, but

added that none was allowed to .
speak on behalf of the Indonesi-

an government at the conference.

The dealers, who have all now
left Kyoto, were identiﬁed by con-
ference delegates from other na-
tions as traders in birds, reptiles
and monkeys.

One of the delegation mem-
bers, Mohammed Hardi, was
named in a British Broadcasting

Corp. (BBC) television documen- -
lary shown in Britain on April 10, '

l991 as a major dealer in animals
banned from trade under CITES

 

regulations. - ‘ .

[n the program, convicted Ger
man smuggler Kurt Schafer
claimed that Hard! is an impor~

etant link in the transiting of illeo

gally obtained wildlife.
WMaputgagaid he has seen the
BBC program“ and is aware of the
accusations against Hardi, but
said the Indonesian justice
Department and police had found
no proof for the claims. '
"In the time I have been in the
job of director general, there has
been no case regarding Mr.
Hardi," he said. _

-—-——-v-u-ew..‘M—-~'

 




THE NEW YORK TIMESLJNEDNESDAY, AUGUST 26, 1981

 

‘ Newark, Mew Jersey

19-..-" “-n---—.A-. -——-

THE STAR-LEDGER, Saturday, August 22, 1981

m.... n...”

 

.m.ussies find,
plot to export
kanga-burger

CANBERRA (UPI) — “Beef" destined for Ameri-
can fast food lovers was loaded with kangaroo meat.
endangering Australia‘s $565 million meat export trade
with the United States. the Australian government. said
yeSterday.

Federal Primary Industry Minister Peter Nixon
said kangaroo meat was found in samples from a Mel-
bourne company already under investigation for al-
legedly substituting horse meat for beef going to the
United States. ‘

~ Nixon said he was extremely disturbed because the
findings clearly demonstrated a serious fraud. ‘

He said the scandal placed Australia’s beef trade
with the United States in jeOpardy and he vowed to
“throwtthe book” at those found guilty and review meat

inSpection procedures.

Australia is the largest exporter-of beef to the
United States and expects to sell some 300,000 tons this
vear. a

Much of the boneless beef is used for hamburger by
American fast food restaurants.

Ho’s a

Federal police and Bureau of 'Animal Health in-
spectors began an intensive investigation into beef fraud
after horse meat was found earlier this month in a con-
srgnment of Australian beef in southern California.

The “beef" was traced to a Melbourne-based
company Profreeze. authorities said. _

Australian officials have impounded 1,609 cartons

‘ of meat bearing Profreeze markings, and exports by the .
company have been suspended. Nixon said.

He said 100 cartons have been tested thus far and in
one set of samples taken from 25 cartons. horse meat
was found in 24, kangaroo meat in 16 and beef in only
five. ' ‘

The results indicated some cartons contained a
mixture of meats, Nixon said.

The minister did not say whether any kangaroo
"beef” had been shipped to the United States.

But he said cartons packed at Profreeze under Bu-
reau of Animal health supervision contained only beef.

indicating the substitution had occurred after the final
export inspection.

 

 

.-

‘.

.-.______ ..___....—4—

AUSTRALIAN MEAT . f

WILL BE INSPECTED

 

Traces of Horse and Kangaroo
Lead US. to Seek Checks
On More Shipments

 

‘ NGTON, A . 25 (UPI) .—
Ag'ittsrllétire Secretary18 John R. Block,
armed with evidence-that Australian
horse meat has been shipped throughout
the United States, announced new ef-
forts today to l;eep barge and kangaroo

{bee im .
mlcflliteonleg st c2310 for checking meat
from nations ides Australia, winch
ships more beef to the Umted States _
than any other country, and requrnng
all exporting nations to test shipments
to the United States. The Umted States
imports about 7 percent of its beef, more
than half of that coming from Australia.

In addition, Mr. Block said, the Aus-
tralian Government would be reqmred
to test meat before shipment. and to heap
the meat under igs securrty until it
reaches the United tates.

Testing by Agriculture Department
officials over the weekend found more
bee! containing traces of horse meat
that had been shipped to the United
States from a suspect Australian plant.

Kangaroo Meat Also Found

Last week the Australian authorities
discovered some kangaroo meat in beef-
shipments destined for the“ United
States, Mr. Block said, rarsmg the pos-
sibility that kangaroo meat, as well as
horse meat, may have been rllrcrtly rm-
ported in the past.” .

Horse meat labeled as beef from Aus-

- tralia was first discovered at a San

' o rocessing plant that supplies
gagi-ﬁtheBox fast food restaurants.
Since then, a spokesman for the Depart-
ment of Agriculture said, ofhcrals have
found that mislabeled meat has been
shippedto other processors in the
United States.

kesman, John McClung, de
c1112; ts? release the names of the pro-
cessing companies, but he said offrcrals
were “pretty certain” that Americans
had eaten meat shipped from merieze
of Richmond, Victona, the suspect us-
tralian plant. ’
ds
Since last Jan. 1, about 8l5,000 poun ,
0t boneless beef, primarily for ham- 5
burgers, has been imported into the
United States from Profreeze. 0f thhaast,
the Department of Agriculture f
found and embargoed 270,000 pounds 0 .
boxed unprocessed boneless beef and -
275000 pounds of patties and ground
meet, all of which has been found to con-
tainscme horse meat.

 

 

 

 




 

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
PO. Box 3650 Washington. DC. 20007

 

 

m f
74 ML

[wt/Ff,
W % 05 W
i .."Z:*i’:@ /W/// ZVJ/

 




2.3:: S 3163’,
; 3.3-: wear—{3 {3333
3:10 inﬂuence
3
Ding b e
"22:12.; 0.3 herc meograp why
res;.:3rting to Literal] geso
‘ 2:: a woman 03' 5*:tue&1ue
-.:;j'.3r'es up viii ens of seals,
.1336 3271151183 being pursued,
11.3; modemman.13532252131137

 

.-.C ... - -—A~A_—' M
- ._._ .. .. - -....._~.._...__. “3.... ....._.C...._. __ A,

“A

f. 3'33 1‘1'1p'33’3‘3 233E333.
7233:3133 shot down.
too, was the fate of a
wohale. Prpjecting an
n 3301' thei . 33‘0“: ‘37 of
the dancer p32 3,:‘»"‘1\
enactgﬁ {be 3319’s: 91C»? 6"}‘33I3i30u
as t ,. 3‘ 13,32“ 135 in-
term: ' ' '
over

 

' P
‘Ir' -r
hub» 73..

 




had
:31}? 318

Amen said the F1 Sb and \& iidlife Serv-
ice 5 ""mnt” d9 lership in At}
tnusht and sold 10 000 ammals, most 0!
them snakes, we: 18 mmths 7

Mr. Amett dascnbed the C‘WI‘BUOD as
; “the largest and most success‘ul Fish
81d Wildlife in astigatlon that's ever
ibeam conducted.” He said some of the
israkes, incluoing ridged-nose rattlers,
xenon rat snake: and rosy boos, so (1 for
as much as $1, 500.

Arrest WaTants for 27 persons gene
issued m 11 states, but a spokesman said
that more than 175 people might have
?b:~3n involved and that more arrests
! van: expected.
I Mr Amett said agents had found that
xenomous snakex “erobeing shipped
1 through the mails in huge‘numbgrsa ,

 

 




tilt". WALL STREET JOURNAL,

 

{1V0 Ba/na/na Rapublic:
US. Struggles to End
' A Monkey Embargo

g . —‘ . .
Primate Exporting Countries
Bar Sales, but Can’t Stop

 

All the Monkey Business t

By BARRY NEWMAN

surf! Reporter of THE WALL STREET JOURNAL

DACCA The government of Bangladesh
has thrown a wrench into the machinery of
America's National Primate Plan.

A diplomatic cont1oversy has ensued. in-
volvr 11g an international corporate struggle
between MOI Enterprists [hr of Portland.
Ore, and Scotty's Pet Farm of Oregon City,
Ore. which also operates Scotty's Roadside
Zoo

At issue are the neutron bomb, the health
and well-being of all mankind. and a lot of
monkeys.

”The monkey file is one of the more
highly classified we. have,” an American
diplomat says. A. Hamid, Dacca’s inspector
general of forests, agrees that “this is a sen-
sitive matter." And a Bangladeshi monkey
dealer whispers, ”America will remember
this "

Some background is in order: For sev-
eral years. the US. has been in the grip of a
_ “severe and long-term shortage of nonhu-
‘ man primates," according to the US. gov-

1-mment Interagency Primate Steering
1 (.‘oznmittee in Washington. The crisis inten-
' sailed in April 1978, when the world’s largest
primate-exporting country, India, imposed a
monkey embargo. America responded with
a conservation and breeding campaign
aimed at achieving monkey self-sufficiency
by 1982. This is the National Primate Plan.

Servant of Science

The monkey of moment to America is the
rhesus. Each year. the country mustenlist
14,000 rhesus monkeys to test vaccines.
gauge the dangers of drugs and chemicals.
and serve the general cause of medical re-
search. To bring America’s breeding col-
onies into full flower, the Primate Steering
Committee needs 12,000 more of these men
keys. But it can't get them. ‘

This is because the only source of rhesus
monkeys outside India is Bangladesh, and
Bangladesh has also banned their export. In-
dia‘ s ban was straightforward. The Bangla-
deshi ban was not —--and there’s a story in
that.

It begins in 1977, when Bert Vieceli, then
a vice president of MOL, dug in at the Inter-
continental Hotel here in quest of some non-
human‘primate business. He left a variety
of impressions.

“Mr. Vieceli has a great faith,” says
Mother Agnes. a frail nun at Bottomley
Home orphanage. “He came often and gave
sweetmeats to the children."

“Bert Vieceli had a lot of money." a
banker says. “He insisted on paying for ev-
1 erything in dollars. he used. to come around
j banging on desks“

 

 

however, it wouldn't have been unreasona-

 

 

 

Thursday, ”March 26, 1981

Whatever h1s technique, Mr. Vieceli met
initially with success. In March 1977.
Bangladesh awarded MOL an exclusive 10
year contract to trap rhesus monkeys and
send them to America. MOL would pay
$81.00 per monkey a high price compared
with the rate. then prevailing in India. No
other exporter even bothered to bid. Mr.
Vieceli proceeded to Washington, and by
June 1978, MOL had a delivery contract at
$185 a monkey with the National Institutes
of Health.

Bit of Monkeyshine

In the meantime, India banned monkey
exports. Entirely by accident, Mr. Vieceli
found himself with a monopoly on America’s
monkey supply. Under the circumstances.

ble for anyone to conclude that the monkeys
of Bangladesh were suddenly underpriced.

Enter Scotty‘s Pet Farm. Paying little
mind to MOL’s exclusive contract, Scott
Campbell came to Bangladesh in mid-1978
and began beating the bushes for a contract
of his own. Reached by telephone at Scotty' s
Roadside Zoo, Mr. Campbell says he was
acting on the request of U. 8 -based monkey
exporters India had recently put out of busi-
ness. “I knew some of the elite in Bangla‘
desh,” he says. “I had done some real fa-
vors for some of the families there.“

Mr. Campbell didn’t get much help from
the American embassy in his raid on MOL’s

 

turf.He did persuade Oregon‘s Sen. Mark .
Hatfield to complain that an Oregon com- ‘
pany was getting short shrift, but the Sena-
tor had to reverse himself when he found
out MOL was from Oregon, too In Decem 3
her 1978, Mr. Campbell sent a furious Mail 5
gram to President Carter, broadly suggest” i
ing that some palms at the embassy had
been greased by Bert Vieceli.

“He is throwing money around in great:
quantities,” Mr. Campbell wrote “and
states he could buy the countries of Bangla
desh and India anytime he desired.”

From his home on Palomino Way in West
Linn, Ore., Mr. Vieceli parries: “I wouldn‘t
pay anybody off. all right. That’s putting it
to you straight out. I give from the heart.
and 1 don‘t care if no monkey ever comes
out of it. But the competition! "

Less than a month after Mr. Campbell
sent his Mailgram to the White House.
Bangladesh abruptly canceled MOL's con-
tract. At least two loads of monkeys were

 

. then sent to America by other companies. a

US. official says. Mr. Vieceli raised a rum-
pus, and in August 1979 the government an-
nounced its decision to ban monkey exports
altogether.

Ofﬁcially, the ban was touched off by the

. neutron bomb. It seems that another Ameri-

can interest --the International Primate Pro-
tection league of Summerville, S.C.-~ also
engaged the attention of Dacca’s policy
makers. It informed them that the US. mili-
tary was using monkeys exported by MOL
for “inconceivably ghastly experiments”
with the warhead, whose enhanced radiation
is designed to kill living things but leave
buildings standing. '

While Moslem Bangladesh may not share
Hindu India’s concern with the fate of ani-
mals, its leaders seem to have developed a
profound desire for good relations with the
monkey lobby in the U. S. ‘We don’ t want to

 

hurt the feelings of our American friends,"
says inspector general of forests Hamid. a
man of polish who wears starched white
shirts and smokes Dunhill cigarets. “I must
tell you there is a strong reaction in Amer-
ica against Bangladesh for using these mon-
keys. You might know the Primate Protec-
tion League. They are bitterly accusing us.
Believe me. the feeling in America is very
much against this trade."

Diplomatic Plea

The feeling isn't shared by the American
government, an interest that curiously
seems to have less influence in Dacca than
the Primate Protection League. Ever since
MOL lost its contract, the US. embassy
here has tried mightily to get the monkeys
ﬂowing again. Every American monkey-
using agency has disclaimed in writing any
link to the neutron bomb. From the highest

. levels of the State Department came this

telegram:

“No Bangladesh monkeys have been used

inneutron bomb or atomic weapons develop-
ment. Moreover, if eXports from Banglade )h
are. remstituted none will be so used.’

A formal diplomatic note was delivered
“The errrbassy «:f the United States appeals
to the Government of Bangladesh to recon
sider its position.” it' said. “The United
States is approaching a critical situation in
its supply of rhesus monkeys for medical re
search and tesring. These programs are not
only important to the United States, but are
vital to the health and well-being of all man-
kind.”

The government of Bangladesh appar-
ently was not moved. It has made no reply.
“This is a case. of expropriation,” says an

~ exasperated US. official. “Aid could be cut

off. We don’t want to threaten. but there's a
stage when this has to come into play.”

Up a Tree

There is talk in Dacca that the govern-
ment is merely hiding its time until MOL
decides its monkey monopoly is no longer
worth fighting for. The ban could then be
lifted and a new contract awarded to an-
other company. One who leans toward this
View is Mohammad Neyamat Ullah, a stout
man in sky-blue trousers who goes by the.
name Sabu.

When it comes to the business of nonhu-
man primates Mr Sabu is an old war
horse. At the moment. however, he is pro-
prietor of the New Elegant Tailor Shop in an
arcade of shops that sell brass pots to tour-
ists. “I have been deprived of my business,”
he says, seating a visitor beneath a rack of
limp suits.

Mr. Sabu used to be a trapping agent. He
says he has connections in America. He
doesn‘t offer the name of his contact. but it
certainly isn‘t Bert Vieceli. “He asked me to
work for him and I said no." Mr. Sabu says
indignantly. “Monkeys are to serve the hu-
man. But he was exporting these monkeys
for the destruction of the human. There is
the difference."

Selling monkeys is more profitabte than
selling suits, though, and Mr. Sabu is sure
there is still a future for the monkey traffic
in Bangladesh. “I understand the govern-
ment is thinking of breeding for export," he
says. watching one of his tailors cut a pat
tern. “They may hire a company to do it for
them. I have already applied. Someday. 1
will get the permission. I will not give up
the hepe. It will coma—today or tomorrow."

 




Watt Raps ‘Elite Groups’
in Environment Movement

By BILL STALL, Times Staff Writer

WASHINGTON—James G. Watt
used his first public speech as sec~
retary of interior Monday to attack
“elite groups” that seek to lock
away public lands and resources for
their own special use, saying such
lands should be managed for the
benefit of all.

Watt enunciated a four-point
policy in which he said that priority
must go to a sound economy for
America. Only if the economy is
healthy can the nation properly
care for its natural resources, he
said.

The secretary, addressing the
North American Wildlife and Na-
tural Resources Conference, also
proposed “orderly development" of
the nation’s energy resources;
greater access for the public parks
and wild lands, and a larger role for
state and local governments in
managing the public domain, a goal
of the “Sagebrush Rebellion.”

All of this can be done, Watt said,
without overrunning and degrading
the nation's parks, wildlife refuges,
seashores and other protected
areas.

“We will not throw the gates
open and say: “Here they are, folks,
help yourself.’ We will manage the '
lands."

Watt’s policy statements, while it
did not define elitist groups or say
how much use and development
should be allowed and where, un»
derscored his differences with his

Democratic predecessor, Cecil D.
Andrus, who generally enjoyed the
support of environmental groups
and frequently was at odds with
those who sought more economic
development of the West.

When he left office, Andrus
boasted of additions to the National
Park System, including vast wilder-
ness areas in Alaska; expansion of
the Redwoods and Sequoia national
parks in California, and creation of
the Santa Monica Mountains Na-
tional Recreation Area and the
Channel Islands National Park.

In defending the Redwood park
additions, Andrus said- “It is costly
to buy back land that never should
have left public ownership in the
first place.”

Watt decried some of the recent
park additions. saying the Park Ser-
vice had been pressured “to grab for
more and more lands” and had
“squandered” money on them while
the old, traditional parks were al—
lowed to deteriorate. Watt has halt-
ed most new land purchases and has
requested that $105 million of the
funds that once went for acquisi-
tions be spent to restore facilities in
older parks.

Watt said the system was
created to be us and not “to lock
the treasures away from the people.
The public's access to the parks is
being erod ” although a major

lIos Angeles Clinics

Tuesday, March 24, I981

problem in the old parks has beer.
overcrowding and inadequate
roads, water and sewage systems.

“We do not believe that the parks
nor any of our resources should be
held for the exclusive enpyment of
the elite," he said.

Fails to Elaborate
While Watt did not 1elaborate,
Co ess in recent years as incor-
pornagtled portions of national parks
into the wilderness area system.
These actions have been denounced
by development interests as lock-
up" the public lands for the use
of a few “elitists.”

Watt said in response to a ques-
tion after his speech that his com-
ments should not be interpreted as
meaning he is opposed to the con-
cept of wilderness areas, where lit.
tle or no development is permitted
and travel is limited to hiking or
horseback riding. . . .

Watt said, “Wilderness is a Vita}
part of our national heritage. It is a
concept that has worked, and we
trust. with good management. will
continue to work.”

Following Watt on the program
was former Nevada Gov. Mike

O’Callaghan who denounced the
Sageth Rebellio , of which Watt
counts himself an advocate, as .a
subterfuge for special interests to
gain control of public lands in the
West.

Sierra Club Wildlife Involvement News
March 1981

American Cetacean Societ - For the fi ' '
7 years, the offshore power boatyraces will notsbechld1n
during the northern migration 09 the gray whale past Newport
Beach. California. Due to the American Cetacean Society
and other conservationist pressures, the boat races will
be held May 2 instead of March l7. May 2 is after the
end of the whales' northward migration and they will not
be subjected to harassment or possible injury.

Pilot whale meat marketed in Japan has been found
to contain up to 64.2 ppm (parts per million) of mercury;
that is over l50 times the maximum allowable for edible
fish as established by the welfare Ministry of Japan.
Mercury in meat from baleen whales was always below the
allowable limit, but reached 0.33 ppm in canned fin whale
meat bought in Tokoyo. Fresh and canned sperm whale meat
contained up to 3.25 ppm of mercury except in tail gristle
(0.043 ppm). Fresh orca meat contained the second hich-
est levels, reaching ]5.6 ppm of mercury; nearly forty
times the safe limit. Sperm whale meat is largely used
in the Japanese school lunch program.

The Welfare Ministry has not applied its own
safe limit to whale meat, presumably because there has
been no identified outbreak of desease associated with
the ingestion of whale meat, and because relatively few
people eat whale meat. However, exposure to the levels
of mercury found in the toothed whales could lead to
mercury poisoning, and is therefore of obvious concern
to Japanese environmentalists.

 




FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE

For Release after 2:30 P-m- (EDT) Alan Levitt
July 16. 1981 After 6:00 p.m. 7/16/81 call:

 

 

 

 

 

LIVE ANIMAL ”STING” REVEALS MASSIVE
ILLICIT MARKET IN U.S. WILDLIFE

A massive illegal trade in protected and endangered U.S. reptiles has been
uncovered by a live animal "sting" operation that was concluded today by Federal
wildlife agents. G. Ray Arnett, Assistant Secretary of the Interior for Fish and
Wildlife and Parks, announced today that the 18—month investigation involved
suspected illegal trafficking in thousands of snakes, turtles, lizards and
migratory birds by more than 175 individuals.

"What is surprising," Arnett said, ”is that this investigation revealed that
hundreds of thousands of U.S. reptiles are illegally taken from the wild each
year for a thriving black market with a very large portion smuggled to Europe and
Japan. These are specimens that cannot be taken from the wild or sold under

Federal and State laws."

The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service also estimates that at least 100,000

venomous and nonvenomous snakes are shipped secretly through the U.S.-mails
annually. Arnett said masking tape is commonly placed over the rattles of
rattlesnakes so they won't be heard. Postal law forbids the shipment of snakes.
A large number of reptiles was expected to be seized today in the largest
wildlife enforcement operation ever conducted with some 200 Federal and State

wildlife conservation officers participating in the action.

 




Arnett announced that the Justice Department had filed criminal charges in
Atlanta, Georgia; Pittsburgh and Scranton, Pennsylvania; and Tallahassee, Florida;
against inrlividtials for violating various Federal wildlife laws. Arrest
warrants were issued for 27 individuals. Federal and State search warrants were
issued for 45 locations in IA. states. Most of the remaining suspects were
interviewed.

Fish and Wildlife Service law enforcement officers initiated the investigation
based on intelligence from past cases. Additionally, several State wildlife agencies
requested assistance in controlling the interstate illegal traffic. A number of
zoos also cooperated.

To infiltrate the illegal trafficking in wildlife, undercover agents

established the Atlanta Wildlife Exchange, a wholesale reptile business in

suburban Atlanta where they boughtand sold almost 10,000 animals that had been
caught in the wild illegally, all the while tape recording transactions. Price
lists were prepared with a statement noting that the Exchange bought as well as
sold native species. Over 1,000 Federal and State listed endangered animals of

15 species were eventually bought in the "sting" operation. Many of the protected
species were released to the wild after being purchased by agents.

”This was not a large, organized conspiracy, but rather many small groups of
two to five individuals working independently," said Clark R. Bavin, Chief of the
Services Division of Law Enforcement. "An extensive informal grapevine made
sources and buyers of the animals easy to find."

Reptile collecting is usually done at night along isolated roads which retain
the day's heat. Poachers use Chisels, shovels and other equipment to get into the
boulder crevices where many of the animals seek shelter. In some areas severe

damage is inflicted to the habitat of rare species.

 




Although the reptiles were taken from a number of States, most of the
poaching was done in California, Florida, Pennsylvania, Texas, New York,
Wisconsin, Kansas, New Mexico, Idaho, and Arizona. About 5 percent of the
"sting" operationE3business consisted of foreign species from Australia, Central
and South America and Mexico, some of which were smuggled into the U.S. "Most
of the trade is based on demand from private collectors," said Bavin,'%nui the
varied backgrounds and occupations of those who were arrested or apprehended was
also surprising." Included were zoo employees, police officers, a sheriff, teachers,
an attorney, bankers, a mortician, businessmen, and officials and employees in the
wild animal trade.

"People are attracted to these animals for a variety of reasons," Bavin said.
”Their rarity and inaccessibility is a major consideration. Some of the snakes
are prized for their intense coloration or intricate patterns. The California
mountain kingsnake, a very docile, 2—foot reptile with repeated bands of white,
reddish—orange, and black was particularly valued and would usually sell in the
$150 range. The Texas gray—banded kingsnake, another favorite, could bring $200.
The rarer the animal, the higher the price."

Other species are sought for their bizarre appearance or for the status or
image they bring the owner. Many of the species sold to the Atlanta Wildlife
Exchange were extremely dangerous. Among them were copperheads, water moccasins

and 15 species of rattlesnakes. Other dangerous animals included a pair of rare

13—foot Indian pythons, American alligators, and Gila monsters, the Nation's only

venomous lizards.~

John Behler, the Bronx Zoo's Curator of Herpetology, cautions would—be snake
fanciers to think twice before they decide to keep venomous pets. "In New York

City over the last several years we've been consultants for dozens of bites from

 




exotic reptiles including pet puff adders, king cobras, Asiatic cobras, saw—
scaled vipers and a host of rattlesnakes. Most of the owners are totally
unfamiliar with the hazard potential they are dealing with."

Most of the animals sold for between $25 and $200 although some cost as
much as $500. A Texas Trans—pecos rat snake would sell for $75, alligator
snapping turtles broughtSBS; Gila monsters, $200. Prices would double or triple
for animals sold overseas.

Illegal collecting from the wild has already been a major cause for several
reptile species becoming endangered or threatened.

Migratory birds, including both live and stuffed hawks, owls, and songbirds,

were also purchased in the operation.

The individuals apprehended were sought for various violations of the
Endangered Species Act, the Lacey Act, the Migratory Bird Treaty Act, Postal
statutes, and conspiracy and false statement statutes. Both misdemeanor and
felony counts were involved.

Throughout the investigation the Department of Justice's Wildlife and Marine
Resources Section arld the Atlanta U.S. Attorney's Office provided counsel and

guidance to the Interior Department.

NOTE TO EDITORS: Photos are available upon request by calling 202/343—8770.

‘1’

N i
“II" 5“

 




FISH Er WILDLIFE

”2......”3... q-—
I on. 4'."
a , .~ - 1
. 1...; (1......
.... m
. ’

;’~
, _ ;r a
2 ~» . Va

 

US. DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR 0 FISH E: WILDLIFE SERVICE

 

 

FEDERAL LAWS THAT RESTRICT COMMERCE
IN REPTILES AND MIGRATORY BIRDS

ENDANGERED SPECIES ACT OF 1973: Prohibits the importation and exportation
and the sale, trade, or shipment in interstate and foreign commerce of endangered
and threatened species , their parts , and products made from them . Also makes it
illegal to harass , harm, capture, or kill any such species Within the United States.
In addition, the Act requires licensing of all commercial importers and exporters
of wildlife. All wildlife must be imported and exported through certain designated
ports , and special declarations filed. Federal permits are required for endangered
and threatened species and are granted only for limited purposes such as scientifc
or propagation.

Penalties: Up to a $20,000 fine and one year imprisonment, as well as forfeiture
of the endangered species , and vehicles or equipment used in the violation.

LACEY ACT: (Originally passed in 1900, amended several times). Prohibits the
transportation in interstate commerce of wildlife taken, transported , possessed ,
or sold in violation of State law. Prohibits the importation of, or foreign commerce
in , wildlife taken, transported, sold or exported in violation of the laws of a
foreign country . Also prohibits the importation of wildlife determined by the
Secretary of the Interior to be injurious to human beings, to animals and plants,
or to the environment in the United States . Requires marking and labelling of
shipments of wildlife.

 

Penalties: Up to $10 ,000 and one year imprisonment.

MIGRATORY BIRD TREATY ACT: (Originally passed- in 1918, amended several
times.) Makes it unlawful to kill, capture, collect, possess, buy, sell, ship, import
or export most migratory game and nongame birds , including their parts , nests or

 

 

FWS- 008 July, 1981
For further information, contact: PUbliC Affairs

Fish and Wildlife Service (202) 343—5634

US. Dept. of the Interior
Washington, DC. 20240 ( )

Please refer to FWS: 008 when making inquiries.

 

 

 

 




eggs , unless an appropriate Federal permit is first obtained. In most cases , how-
ever , permits are not available for commercial activities involving nongame migratory
birds . The sport hunting of certain migratory gating birds is permitted in accordance
with Federal hunting regulations issued annually , and certain commercial activities
involving captive-reared game birds are also allowed under permit.

Penalties: Up to $2,000 and two years imprisonment for felony sale or taking
with intent to sell. All other violations , $500 and six months imprisonment.

CONVENTION ON INTERNATIONAL TRADE IN ENDANGERED SPECIES OF WILD
FAUNA AND FLORA (CITES): Regulates trade in certain wildlife and plants by
requiring permits to import or export them. Generally , the permits certify that

the activity will not be detrimental to the survival of the species and that the import
or export is being conducted in accordance with CITES . An international treaty
signed by more than 60 countries , CITES is intended to regulate trade so that it
does not threaten the existence of the species listed in one of three Appendices .

Penalties: Up .to a $20,000 fine and one year imprisonment, as well as
forfeiture of the species, and vehicles or equipment used in the violation.

* 3k * * *

 




 

Ila; - :W

ﬁwﬁ “Ti: -

 

FISH 8- WILDLIFE

E ’35...” .. w-
"'1 ' . ‘
~ ‘~ I .4 ‘u' «A
J’» _. _, f ,, VI. ...
.1'. V ‘_ .‘ _ . .I ‘
L‘ ' .
1.
n
3‘

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR 0 FISH 8 WILDLIFE SERVICE

 

I“: , . -.~
W‘WM V“

PROTECTED SPECIES RECOVERED IN LIVE ANIMAL "STINQ:

During the course of the investigation, Federal undercover agents purchased almost
10,000 animals that had been taken illegally from the wild or sold in Violation of
State and/or Federal law. This included hundreds of animals protected by State

or Federal endangered species laws.

Following are some of the protected reptiles and birds purchased during the

investigation:

REPTILES PROTECTED BY THE U.S. ENDANGERED SPECIES ACT

San Francisco garter snake

Jamaican boa

Indian python

American alligator

Eastern indigo snake

New Mexican ridge-nosed rattlesnake

REPTILES PROTECTED BY STATE LAWS

 

Rosy rat snake

Ridge-nosed rattlesnake
Twin-spotted rattlesnake
Rock rattlesnake

California banded kingsnake
California mountain kingsnake
California striped kingsnake
Rosy boa

Gopher snake

Endangered
Endangered
Endangered
Threatened
Threatened
Threatened

Florida

Arizona, New Mexico (Endangered)
Arizona

Arizona, Texas

California

California

California

California

California

 

July, 1981

FWS- 007
For further information, contact: PUbliC Affairs

(202) 343—5634
Fish and Wildlife Service
U.S. Dept. of the Interior
Washington, DC. 20240 ( )

PIease refer to FWS- 007 when making inquiries.

 

 

 

 

 




 

Isaiwﬁzferw

. 492.? $1.... .

.

.. r},1\f(k.la xl‘ v :1. lfr «l! u... I. It .s...),. ‘ . . F .P rt... .‘rlhf‘fiirl'tll‘inii

 

 

 




 

 




 

 

by. an-”

.

.r u .. n
‘ ‘ .9 w... rk.
+ A

. .V .
yuan“ 0..., a?

..~.V

mu gait.-

iéé'a 2w;

M
.w
w

7:: LL.-

(w “A“: or» m~m~mu ark

,.. m-~-- 3....

x

, v... .u-vva— 4.2.x; . ;. 54. chi-aw .5, .- .3432»: '

.2 [PK :7}: \Miru .1wa

 

 

 




 

 

.m
.m
w
W

 

 




 

 

 

 

   
  
          
 

        
  
 
  

 

Wag W"; '. ‘
v 3' “3 TC;

.412, 9

f kn." (-3347; f 1;
«3m:-
-; ,w '

 
 
   
   

3k.
‘ y‘L‘
1:5?

‘ ELI!

       
  

  
 

 

    
 

  

‘ ' :r‘ 21“?“ 1F

ﬂ ‘1 2d ,
W

I‘t
4" _, ,“
‘ .. ‘ .> ., a ,. .
1' i.j'«. It? 1’) '
#9531“, , .
lv 1,4"; . ‘_ '
u 1 ﬂ l 1‘ V- !

   
 

~. —- tr". rug.

   

   

: ‘ ' .
g . ‘ «J . 1‘ _ ‘ J -. .
‘ i . ' :4 ‘
1' v " “ . ' . .
‘1" S. ’*
r“ . ‘ ‘ J‘-
A” x . ‘ ' w
a . 5 5“ -
‘* " 't a“ ' "ﬂ

 




QUESTIONS ON THE HANDLING OF LIVE WILDLIFE IMPORTS
TO THE UNITED KINGDOM IN RELATION TO INFECTIOUS DISEASE HAZARDS TO

AIRLINES, AIRPORT AND H.M. CUSTOMS PERSONNEL

By:

John Brookland and L.A.

 

June 1986

Contact: ENVIRONMENTAL INVESTIGATION AGENCY,
Unit 32, Finsbury Business Centre,
40 Bowling Green Lane,
London. EC1R ONE.

Telephone: 01-833—1493

 




QUESTIOIS OI TEE HAIDLIEG 0F LIVE WILDLIFE IIPORTS’TO TEE UIITED KIIGDOI
II RELATIOI T0 IIFECTIODS DISEASE HAZARDS TO AIRLIIES.AIRPORT a
H.I.CUSTOIS PEESDIIEL. '

IITRODUCTIOI.

As the result of a four years Study THE PREPARATIOI a SHIPIEIT 0F LIVIIG
SPECIIEIS 0F WILD FAUIA II IITERIATIOIAL TRADE CARRIED BY AIR by
Brookland,Carter and Hora (1984), a project endorsed by the Secretariat
of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species,
legitimate questions arose as to the adequacy of health precautions for
customs officers and airport personnel handling live wild animal
shipments arriving in the United Kingdom. The great bulk of such imports
are made by air, though a lesser volume arrives by road and sea.

Brookland, Carter & Hora note:“Some diseases carried by birds are
'transmissable to humans: therefore, persons in close contact with bird
shipments during transport, quarantine, or even after the sale of the
specimens, may be at risk. This factor should be neither over, nor
under, emphasised, but it should not be neglected.“ They also drew
attention to health risks associated with the trade in live wild
primates and other species and pointed to the notable incidence of
primate mortalities related to enteric and respiratory diseases. As
noted below, some of these diseases are zoonoses,i.e. diseases
communicable between animals and man.

Animals and birds which survive capture are commonly subjected to harsh
rigors associated with transport and confinement involving sudden
changes in climate and diet, lack of food and water, overcrowding and
poor ventilation. These and many other factors put them under very
severe stresses. It is recognised that these cumulative stresses cause
not only much suffering, but greatly increase susceptibility to
diseases.(Simpson,1986). Some of these diseases which cause high
mortality rates among birds and animals are transmissable to man and may
be fatal.

SDHE HEALTH RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE IHPORT 0F LIVE BIRDS

Psittacosis is caused by Chlamydia psittaci, an intracellular
parasite.Though most common among parrot-like birds the disease is not
confined to them. Strains of the parasite, apparently less infectious to
humans, may be found among passerines and pigeons.

The disease may be latent; infected birds may appear perfectly
healthy.Humans may become infected by inhaling contaminated airborne
material,or through close contact with infected birds, cages or material
contaminated with excreta or nasal discharges.

Airlines employees, airport personnel and transport workers, as well as,
customs officers may be subject to high risk in aircraft cargo holds ,
cargo sheds or closed vehicles, particularly when birds flutter in cages
so scattering dusty material. And while being moved, birds in crates
invariably flutter vigorously.

 




Psittacosis in humans may be manifest as a kind of mild influenza or
more severe respiratory disease. In some cases it may seen to be no more

than ”a bad cold“. It may be, however, a disease with mortal
consequences.

In 1966 a member of the RSPCA Heathrow Animal Hostel was seriously
affected and was ill for over six months. Others were affected by what
may have been more mild strains of the disease. In 1968 Carter destroyed
a sick parrot belonging to a person who subsequently developed

psittacosis.He was ill for four months, and was not fully recovered a
year later.

In 1978 two men in Leicester died following infection contracted from an
apparently healthy cockatiel imported from Belgium which,apparently,
completed the required quarantine period in the UK.

In 1979 six staff members of the Animal Quarantine Station, Heathrow,
were hospitalised with suspected psittacosis after handling a shipment
of Amazon parrots from South America travelling to Japan.Two airline
personnel in contact with the birds became ill, one so seriously that he
was absent for several months and attempted to sue the airline for

compensation. Thanks to Union intervention the matter was settled out of
court.

In 1985 two owners of a large collection of parakeets in the UK were
confined to bed with flu like symptoms following the diagnosis of
psittacosis by post mortem on two dead birds from their collection.
Unfamiliar with the disease, the local doctor did not initially

ventually contacted a veterinary laboratory

rtems enabling him to prescribe appropriate

psittacosis is not a notifiable disease it
may be often misdiagnosed. The case is similar with other
zoonoses.(8impson,1986). Also, persons not regularly in contact with
exotic species may be more susceptible to infection as they will not
build up antibodies.

In 1986 a man bought an Amazon parrot in a Southend pet shop which died
soon after due to psittacosis. He and his family all developed symptoms
of "flu" and had to get medical treatment.

After the revocation of the UK ban on the import of psittacines in 1966
the incidence of human patients affected with psittacosis/ornithosis
rose from 40 cases in 1967 to 177 cases in 1975, and to over 370 cases
in 1980. However, in only 42 of these cases was it possible to confirm
the disease was contracted from imported birds. lonetheless, an almost
tenfold increase in the incidence of the disease among humans following
the revocation of the ban is significant evidence of the risks.

In the USA, laboratory confirmed cases of psittacosis among pet birds
rose from 67 cases in 1976 to 191 in 1978. The increase in confirmed
human cases rose from an annual average of 8 in the period 1965-1974 to
an average of 24 during the years 1975-1978. These were mostly
associated with newly imported psittacines.

 




 

  

Since ,as noted, psittaCosis is not a legally notifiable disease in the
0.x. figures may be regarded as conser

vative. They may be significantly
higher. -

The available evidence is sufficie

nt to Justify far more stringent
precautions to protect the health

of airport personnel.

2.2 Salmonellosis occurs as the result of infection with a range of
organisms of the Salmonella group which may affect humans, mammals,birds

and reptiles. In the context of zoonoses salmonellosis is a high
priority concern of the Vbrld Health Organisation.

2.2.1 Among hunans it may cause food poisoning or gastro-enteritis of varying
severity. Among birds, diseases of the Salmonella group commonly result
in heavy mortalities while they are in quarantine.Hygiene is a major
factor in prevention and control. Possibly, all birds may carry
Salmonella organisms, but indications suggest it is more common among
psittacines. During 1980/81 the number of occurences of S.typhiluriun
among Grey parrots from West Africa showed the highest incidence since

the introduction of the U.K. Importation of Birds Order,1976. This
strain is responsible for food poisoning in man.

202521n.1984, out of 295 Grey parrots in one shipment which passed through

Heathrow airport, 49 died of S.typhimurium. This proportion of infected
birds (16.6%) poses a clear health risk.

2,2,3 Gregarious species of birds, or places where birds are closely confined
together, as in cages or cargo sheds, are more susceptible to
outbreaks.Susceptibility is increased further when birds are debilitated
by the unnatural stresses of confinement and tr

ansport.
2.2.4 In 1975 the internal American tr
obvious link between pet turtles
the export trade has since contin
substantial numbers from the U.S.
Journal of the American Medical A
important source of the infection
17% of salmonella cases repo
attributable to pet turtles.

ade in pet turtles was banned due to the
and salmonellosis in humans. However,
ued. They are imported into the U.K. in
A. A December,1985 report in the
ssociation stated the trade may be an
worldwide. The report stated that 12-
rted among infants in Puerto Rico were

2.2.5 Since bacteria of the genus Salmonella pose clear risks to human

health there is a need for strict hygiene practices among airport cargo
and transport personnel.

2.3 Aspergillosis(Pneunomycosis) is among the more common fungal infections
affecting birds and animals. Aspergillus is a genus of fungi (molds),
several species of which are endoparasitic and opportunistic pathogens.
A. fundgatus, a species growing in soil and manure, has been found in

infections of the ear,lungs and other organs of humans and animals and
is considered a primary pathogen of birds.

2.3.1Aspergillosis may be marked by inflammatory granulatomous lesions in the

meninges.Spores
gaining access to the body by
8 among captive wild birds.

skin,ear,nasal sinuses, lungs and sometimes bones and
may be present in hay, fodder and grain,

inhalation. It causes numerous mortalitie

 

 

  




Since strict hygiene, fresh air and sunlight are essential elements in
controlling this disease, it is clear that the general conditions of the
international trade in wildlife do nothing to minimise, but rather
increase the risks of transmdssion of this and other diseases. As noted
above these risks should be neither over nor underemphasised. Yet it
would be irresponsible to ignore them.

Escherichia is a genus of widely distributed gram negative bacteria,
occasionally pathogenic for man. E.coli constitutes the greater part of
the normal intestinal flora of man and other animals, but is a frequent
cause of urinary tract infections and epidemic diarrheal diseases

especially in children. To varying degrees most imported birds suffer
from disorders associated with E.coli bacteria.

Undoubtedly the conditions of capture and transport exacerbate these
disorders, while the confinement of many birds together compounds the
problems. Blower and Gibbon (1985) support this by noting "The
environmental conditions most likely to produce E.coli are high
humidity,accumulations of droppings, contamination of food and water
containers and inadequate ventilation”. Which is a fair description of
the standard conditions in which birds at present are transported. They
also note that enteritis is often precipitated by the stress of changing

environments, especially when hygiene conditions are less than optimal,
which is routinely so during transport.

In present trade conditions there really appears to be no way to prevent
the shipment of diseased birds. Indeed, the trade promotes the
development and spread of disease..

Health certificates accompanying bird shipments seldom are worth the
paper on which they are written. Experience indicates they are
documentary formalities which guarantee or certify nothing. In practice
'certified” shipments may be suffering from a range of injurious
diseases to which the stresses of capture and transport have made them
susceptible.(see further notes below on primates).

Before shipment it may be difficult, if not impossible, for veterinary
surgeons to perceive or diagnose sickness by visual examination. Few
countries of export appear to have the facilities to make thorough
testing possible.

V.L.G.Ashton,Veterinary Officer, Ministry of Agriculture,Fisheries and
Food (HAFF) states that the Third International Congress of
Parasitology, Munich,1974 approved a statement recognising the practical
difficulties of monitoring the health of large consignments of captive

birds, as well as the gaps in our understanding of the epidemiology of
avian diseases.

It is likely that those with interests in the trade in wild birds may
react dismissively to the foregoing remarks on human health risks; they
may refer to them as "alarmist“. As will appear in the following section
on primates,from the observations of a leading U.K. importer and Medical
Research Papers, the risks exist. And if the near ten-fold increase of
psittacosis cases in a period of 14 years is taken into account we are
considering real risks. And Customs officers,airlines cargo

personnel,airport workers and transport workers who are involved

 




occasionally, or regularly in handling the consignments are directly
affected.

BONE HEALTH RISKS ASSISIATHD WITH THE IHPORT 0F LIVE PRIMTES.

Health risks for Customs officers,airport and transport workers handling
wild primate imports potentially are serious. 99% of these imports are
wild caught.(Hobbs & Bleby,1976).

As noted above, health certificates issued in accordance with Government
and IATA Live Animal Regulations amount to no more than a paper
formality . Catching methods “.... produce great anxiety and stress
..(which).. can aggravate latent or incubating infections ..“.(Hobbs &
Bleby). Also "At nearly all stages from capture to export primates are
exposed to a wide variety of humans who are themselves carrying diseases
such as tuberculosis to which primates are very vulnerable ...Some
countries try to legislate against the export of diseased animals
...procedures are impracticable as usually no veterinarian can carry out
a thorough health examination on large consignments of primates. In
practice a general examination is made and an overall certificate given
for the shipment ..... few exporters go to great lengths to organise
trapping, holding and selection of primates humanely and hygienically ."

Reporting a visit to an Asian dealer,Brookland,Carter & Hora (1984)
stated:“..specimens usually were bought from the 'collector' 24-48 hours
prior to shipment ... This obviated the need for the exporter to care
for them, and reduced risks of illness or disease ocurring on his
premises which might delay export. It was considered preferable to have
such problems at the destinations where veterinary attention could be
provided in quarantine.“ In another South east Asian country shipping
primates to the U.K. a dealer estimated 60-752 of the macaques trapped
died before export. For in transit shipments and exports to UK, Heathrow
airport was avoided because of its reputation for strict inspection.
When shipping to UK, exporters routed consignments to Gatwick airport
“because this was the expressed preference of the UK importer who...also
wished to avoid Heathrow."

From 1968-71 approximately 12,000 primates were imported into the UK
annually. All arrive by air, travelling mainly as cargo on scheduled jet
passenger flights.(Hobbs & Bleby).

From 1977-1982 primate imports examined at Heathrow's Animal Quarantine
Station numbered 4,628, approximately 16% of the total imports.ln the
same period primates examined while in transit via Heathrow for other
countries totalled 13,214.

In 1983 the volume of imports to the UK fell to 3,501. The number re-
exported were 1,381.(Department of the Environment). The MAFF stated
(November 1985) they have no details of deaths of primates on arrival or
in quarantine in the UK. At present, the bulk of UK primate imports
enter the country via Gatwick airport.

The kinds of analyses of mortalities shown in annexes 1-3 obtainable as
public information in the USA are not available in the UK due to

 




official refusals to disclose data. Since the sources of primates for
the UK are similar to those of the US, there appears to be no prima
facie reason why mortalities among primates imported to the UK are not
similar to those in the USA.

Much of the data requested by BIA on birds was refused because '..we
could not allow access by a third party, such as your organisation, to
material supplied to us in confidence, by importers'.(lAFF 1985).

The following observations by Hobbs & Bleby (1976) suggest that the
situation in UK indeed may be comparable with that shown for the USA.
“There is ample evidence to show that imported primates are invariably
infected with pathogenic microorganisms and infested with parasites..
(they) are almost constantly in contact with human habitations and other
species of animals, both of which are additional sources of infection.
Aggravation of disease by stress and trauma is a constant cause for

concern and the extent of the problem is illustrated by the following
examples:"

National Institute for Medical Nearly 201 of all freshly imported
Research,Mill Hill & Hampstead. cynomolgus monkeys died of disease
during 1970. 5-72 of all other

species of primates died while
in quarantine.

Birmingham University. 50% of one consignment of rhesus

monkeys died of unknown causes
in 1970.

I.C.l.Ltd.,Alderly Park. 20% of rhesus monkeys and pig-
tailed macaques died of unknown
diseases during the period of
quarantine and isolation in the
years 1965—70.

Pfizer Ltd.,Sandwich. 40% of cynomolgus monkeys died
either of dysentry or parasitic
infections up to 1970. 30% of all
rhesus died similarly while still
in isolation.

Dutch Primate Centre. 30% of a consignment of 100 rhesus
monkeys were infected with
tuberculosis and had to be
destroyed.

Nairobi. 80% of a batch of 1,139 baboons
and vervet monkeys destined for
the USA were found diseased and
had to be destroyed.

As shown in recent (1984,Annex 3) data from the USA the likelihood is
that mortality levels remain consistent with those of earlier years.

 




Zoonoses present clear health risks to any workers who regularly or
occasionally are called upon to handle shipments of live wild fauna
imported to the UK, or which are in transit to other countries. The
risks involved with bird shipments have been noted above. On those with
primates. Hobbs a Bleby (1976) note: “The diseases associated with
imported primates produce especially serious problems when they are a
danger to man. In view of the hazard to human health and following the
deaths in Harburg in 1967 caused by an agent from vervet monkeys, the
Medical Research Council set up a Committee on Simian Viruses to enquire
into the position and make recommendations". They note a "small number
of examples” of dangerous pathogens “that newly imported primates can
introduce to man as well as to animals themselves.“

“B. virus is a member of the herpes group and received prominence when
large numbers of primates were used in the production and testing of
poliomyelitis vaccines. In the monkey the virus produces superficial
mouth lesions, whereas in man infection is rare but when it occurs it
usually cauSes a fatal ascending encephalomyelitis. The virus can be
airborne....Some human cases of B virus infection followed no known
accident or bite. There has been one human case of severe non-fatal
B.virus encephalitis which presented as opthalmic zoster many years
after contact with simians had ceased."

“larburg agent... an incident in Harburg in Germany ... in which 25
people became infected (resulting in 7 human deaths) by an unknown agent
contracted from vervet monkeys, some of which had passed through London
airport. It was fortunate that mortality occurred in only one country
and that infection was confined to one species...“

'leasles ... prevalent in newly captured pregnant rhesus monkeys; play a
significant role in the loss of their foetuses. These primates must
therefore be regarded a potential hazard to the health of persons
handling them...”

'Bacteria:Tuberculosis ... the joint UN Food and Agriculture
Organisation/World Health Organisation Expert Committee on Zoonoses

refers to monkeys as the most important source of human infection after
cattle..'

'Salmonellosis. There is no doubt that Salmonella organisms infect
primate species but the extent is not clear... detailed investigations
have shown the presence of salmonellosis in many species of primates ..
the risk of infection is especially high in young animals and those
under stress and it should be noted that primates can be symptomless
.carriers of this disease.“

'Shigellosis: there are many well documented cases of the spread of
Shigella infections from monkeys to apes to humans ...“

“Innkeypox. A review in 1980 gave the number of recorded human cases of
monkeypox since 1970 as 47, of which 8 resulted in death (Brennan et.al
1980). To date there have been a further 14 cases including one fatality
...all have arisen in Vest and Central Africa ... monkeypox in man can
be severely incapacitating and the case fatality rate is as high as 17%

 




it is not thought to be a public health hazard because the virus
does not spread within the human community, Judged by the very low
secondary attack rate".

“Simian Herpes Virus. Ho human infections by the simian

herpes virus 8A8 derived from african vervet monkeys and baboons have
been confirmed, but one death from encephalitis following a bite by a
vervet monkey has been reported.”

“There has been one presumptive human infection with a New World

subgroup of viruses.A patient who had contact with Hew Vorld primates
recovered from encephalitis...”

”Unidentified agents. There is cause for concern in the
many reports of suspected or unidentified viruses..Pzifer conducted a
survey on viruses in imported primates but stopped after isolating 140
agents...the foregoing incidents, though rare, indicate the potential
dangers of using imported primates from the wild ..... The survey has
confirmed that the majority of users and handlers of primates are still
unaware of the hazards to which they are exposed.“
Hobbs and Bleby conclude the UK situation is very
unsatisfactory.“...There is ample evidence to show that both staff

and animals are being unnecessarily exposed to pathogens, some
potentially lethal.“

“The greatest hazard arises from close association with rhesus monkeys,
particularly from bites, from handling their tissues or secretions, or

inhalation of aerosols therefrom, and from their cages, but other monkey
species, including cynomolgus and baboons may carry B. virus.“

“The risk, which is usually low, is greatest during the isolation period
when primary infections, usually manifest as buccal lesions, may be
spreading through a batch of newly imported inadequately seperated
rhesus monkeys.At such times they are best handled only by experts.“

0n the above dangers, R.E.Hackett, Shamrock Farms Ltd., a leading UK
primate importer observes: “ The imported monkey is a dangerous
commodity..a potential hazard to humans who come into contact with it
...(and) it poses a very real danger to other creatures.."

”It might be reasonable ..to query how the staff of Shamrock Farms
manage to survive.. we are conditioning newly imported primates in an
intensive manner and on a large scale... we have had to organise our
routines in such a manner that the health and welfare of our workforce
is safeguarded”.

At this point it is legitimate to ask Union representatives what
precautions are taken to safeguard the health and welfare of airlines
and airport personnel,transport workers and customs officers in regard
to the following comments of Hackett:

“We have a permanent medical adviser who has full recourse to
appropriate senior consultants.Staff undergo continuous health screening
and a full range of vaccines is administered as a routine.All staff see
a chest physician at least once a year and the area Medical Officer
ensures that the personel physician of each member of the staff is aware
of the hazards associated with this type of work.Vorking routines are

 




3.5.2

3.6

 

governed by strict codes of discipline..It is obvious that any monkey.
no matter what its history, represents a potential risk to both other
animals and their attendants.“

In the IATA Live Animals Regulations (1986,13th.Edition,Section 3,page
3,para.3.5.2.[d]) it is stated that staff handling live animal
consignments regularly should be immunised against diseases. The
Regulations specify hygiene precautions which are impractical in present
working conditions. But in view of the risks involved for the personnel
the problems clearly need investigation.

The interests of workers need review in light of some of the statements
by the Medical Research Council on The Management Of Simians In Relation
To Infectious Hazards To Staff (1985).

“Simians may harbour infectious microorganisms and parasites that are
potentially dangerous to man and some of these are especially
hazardous...1t is essential to minimise the risk to staff of infection
with these pathogens.The Medical Research Council has adOpted within its
organisation the following practices where primates are housed. Other
organisations may find these notes helpful:

“Staff handling primates should be under the supervision of a suitably
qualified and competent person, knowledgeable about the dangers of
animal diseases transmissible to man. Staff should be suitably trained
and made aware of the potential risks“.

“ledical and Veterinary advice should be available at all times..sources
of such advice... displayed clearly by a convenient telephone.“

“All staff should always wear adequate protective clothing...“

“lankeys should be moved within an establishment as little as

possible.They may scatter cage debris and urine, and passers by may be
put at risk“.

“It should be standard practice to ensure that those in contact with
primates have been immunised against tetanus and. if tuberculin
negative, tuberculosis. Those involved with animals in rabies quarantine
should be im-mised against rabies“.

“Only staff who have shown no evidence of tuberculosis at chest X-ray on
recruitment should be allowed to handle monkeys“.

“Smallpox has been eliminated from the world... vaccination against
smallpox is now confined to those working with the virus or at some
special risk of contracting the infection.“

“Staff handling simdans should carry a personal record card which states
that they may be potentially exposed to unusual infectious
hazards...Vhen encephalitis or unexplained or unusual illness occurs in
people who have been in association with simians ,the possibility of
infection from the simians should be considered seriously“.

 

 




“Standing orders should include instructions on action to be taken
should personnel be bitten or scratched by, or working with simians'.

SUIIARY

In none of the references cited in this paper,but only in the report of
Brookland,Carter and Hora, is there recognition of the health risks to
customs and airport personnel. Though IATA Live Animals Regulations
specify precautions to be taken on behalf of personnel, first hand
experience shows these precautions are not taken in practice.

The person in UK who first come into contact with,or handle live animal
cargoes are customs officers, airline cargo and transport personnel.They
first incur the risks involved in handling the cargoes before they enter
quarantine. Also at risk are aircraft servicing personnel who clean and

maintain the cargo holds of the aircraft in which these cargoes have
been carried.

RECOHHEIDATIOIS.

Unequivocally, the precautions stated to be necessary for Shamrock Farms
and Medical Research Council personnel are equally necessary for airport
workers who are first to come into contact with live wild animal cargoes
arriving in this country.It should be noted that Heathrow Animal
Quarantine Station (AQS) personnel who take over the cargoes from
airline workers all carry out simdlar precautions to those specified by
the Medical research Council.Such precautions are necessary for workers
handling cargoes of live birds and other animals.

Immediate survey and review of the numbers of workers handling these
cargoes is needed. This should include those cleaning aircraft holds
wherein animal cargoes have been carried.An investigation of the sick
records of such personnel, covering a period of up to the last ten
years, is strongly advisable, with particular reference to histories of
illness due to respiratory and intestinal diseases.

leantime, since the Heathrow AQS has staff,equipment and facilities to

handle these potentially dangerous live wildlife imports that enter the
UK, it is suggested that:

a) the numbers of workers handling such cargoes should be limited to
those able to work with AQS personnel who are trained and equipped to
meet the risks; that workers are immunised, undergo regular health

checks, wear protective clothing and are informed of the need for strict
discipline on health and hygiene procedures;

b) to increase health precautions and ensure more effective inspection,
all such cargoes should be made to pass through Heathrow AQS. This is
now the case with all bird cargoes arriving at Gatwick, and should be so
with all live wildlife cargoes.The AQS is open on a 24 hours basis and
can accomodate an increased volume of imports.

It is necessary to emphasise to concerned unions that it is important
for an agency such as the Animal Quarantine Station, independent of the

 




  

5.4

 
 
   
    
   
    
   
   
  
   
   
  
  
 
 
    
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
    
   
    

11

airlines and ilporters, to examine live anilal ship-eats. It is possible
otherwise that the interests of workers lay not be protected adequately.

These proposals may meet with some resistance fron ilporters and
airlines on economic and other grounds. Since IAFF and DOE appear to

defer to their interests in some respects, it may be their opposition
also will be incurred.

If health precautions are a primary concern all that can be done to
limit the number of personnel in contact with these cargoes should be
done.Those handling them mst be properly supervised,trained and
equipped.

With respect to cargoes of live wild birds and animals for the pet
trade, the unions may be able to dispose of health problems from this
perspective almost entirely if they act to support efforts to stop what
is a wholly superfluous luxury trade of no significant economic value to

the UK, and which would in no way detract from worker or union interests
if it were banned.

' By arrangement, EIA is prepared to assist the unions in protecting the

interests of the workers. Cooperation in doing this reciprocally would
be to the benefit of the workers the unions represent as well as the
conservation and animal protection objectivesof BIA.

 

References.

Brookland J. 1984 The Preparation & Shipment of Living

Carter N. Specimens of Wild Fauna in International

Hora C. Trade Carried by Air,anironmental
Investigation Agency,London.

Simpson H. 1986 Stress & Infection: Towards a Behavioural
Hicrobiology,Department of Continuing
Medical Education,University of Hatal,Durban,
South Africa.

Hobbs KR. 1976 Laboratory Hon-Human Primates for Biomedical

Bleby J. Research in the United Kingdom, Medical

Research Council.

Medical Research 1985 The Management of Simians in Relation to
Council. Infectious Hazards to Staff,Council‘s Simian
Virus Committee.

Hackett RE. 1978 The Rationale of Conditioning Imported
Honkeys Prior to their Arrival at the
Research Institute,Primate Supply 2,Ho.3
pp. 45-47.

Pers.Comm. 1985 L.A.Carter,EIA. Mortality Levels in Imported
Birds from D.Hughes,HAFF, 2nd.0ctober.

Blower R. 1985 EnteritiszThe Most Common Cause of Death,Cage
Gibbon J. & Aviary Birds, Post Mortem Serv1ce, Dec.14th.

  




The Risks and Problems Connected with the
Import and Export of Captive Birds, British
Veterinary Journal, 140, pp 317-327.

Human Monkeypox 1970-9, Bulletin of the World
Health Organisation,58, pp 165-182.

IATA Live Animals Regulations, 13th Edition.

 




ANNEX 1.

TABLE \ Mortalities of‘ Macaques in 47 Sample Swipments Imported to
the USA during 1978 Showing Comparisons between Shippers.

Country 5 Exporter No. of No. of Died in Died within Total
- Swipments Macaques Transit 90 days Dead

 

Malaysia

Associated Agencies 29(2.a%0 395(3a.7%) - 41.5%

ResearCh Primates 15(0-5%) 529 (245%) 25-3%

Wildlife zdc Supplies ‘5(2.5%J 2a(1o.o%) 12.5%
. 29.2%

Indonesia

c v Primates 579 2a (3.5%) 251 (35.9%) 275 40.5%

Aquatic Exports 7o 3(a.2%0 32(45.7%) 35 50.0%

 

47 4 158 77(1.e%) 1231(29.5%) 1308 41.3% Av

 

. Overall Av. 31.4%
(Source: USDA Public Health Service Reports/ IPPL)

TABLE 2 Analysis of‘ Mortalities Atnong a Sample oF 33 Long-tailed Macaques
(M. fascicularisJShipments, Imported to the USA fromIWalaysia 197a

Mortalitv on Arrival and within 90 Davs

Nunber of Shipments 33

Number of Macaques

Dead on Arrival 50 1.4%
Died during so Days 942 27.5%
Vivisection Deaths (53) (1.5%)

(During 90 Days) 29.0% (excluding Vivisection Deaths).

Causes of Death within 90 Day Quarantine

Numbers of Days
Causes of Death 0—? e - 14 15 - so so - do so — 9o
Enteric Related 10 as 153 122 so
Pneumonia 95 122 , 80 15 -
Unknown 50 29 63 48

8
Euthanasia 7 9 - 2 2

Toxemia - 3 - -

Tuberculosis (12)

 

162 232 321
Eburce: USDA Public Health Service Reports/IPPL)

 

 




TABLE 3 Analysis of MortalitiesAmong a Sample of 14 Swioments of
Macaques (M: Fascicularis)Imported to the USA from Indonesia 1978

v——

Mgrtalitv on Arrival and Durino 90 Days Quarantine.

Nunber of‘ Shipments
Number of Macaques
Dead on Arrival

Died within 90 Days

Vivisection Deaths

Qauses of Death

Enteric Related
Pneumonia
Unknown
Euthanasia
Toxemia

Tuberculosis

M

68

(source: USDA Public Health

14
749

27 3 . 5%
284 38. 0%

(23) 13.120!

41.5% (excluding vivisection deaths)

NUmbers of Days
8 - 14 15 - 30 30 - 60 60 - 90 Total
27 42 47 4 124
17 38 9 l 126
1 1 10 s ’ 19
l - 4 6
- - l 1

(8) (a)
46 89

Service Reports/IPPL).

 




 

 

ammo: Center for Disease Control Primate Import: Forms.

Health and Hunan Services.
Putﬂished by mAEFm (05A) \/01 3, No 3, 1951.

Public Health San/ice, US Department of

ANNEX 2.
PRIMATE MORTALITY 0mm ARRIVAL IN TFE U.5.
(JANJARY 1975 - SEPTEMBER 1979)
SPECIES B<PORTING QUANTITY 00A 0150 WITHIN 90 DAYS TOTAL ’
CGJNTRY IMPmTED (% MORTALITY) 550v DISEASE MCBTALITY - '

__ [ % MCHTALITY J

NEW WORLD

Aotue trivir‘gatus Bolivia 299 15 5.3% 41 13.7% 19.1%
(0.71 or Night Monkey) Panama 459 19 4.1% 193 42.0% 45.2%
Ca'llitbrix spp Bolivia 339 5 {2.4% 59 17.4%; . 19.5%
(Mamoeets) Paraguay 477 24 5.0% 154 32.3% 37.3%
Cebus apella Bolivia 134 7 5 2 15 11.2%} 15.4%
(Black-capped capuchin) Panama 12 4 33.3% 33-33% .
&guinus spp. Bolivia 513 17 7 1.1% 3.9%
Tamarins Panama 32 2 . . '
( ) Peru 355 2 71 8, 28.3% .
Saimiri sciureus Bolivia 005 113 241 12.0% 17.7%
(Squirrel monkey)

AmICAN
Cercopitbeous aethiops Ethiopia 9'70 259 209 21.5% 49.3%
(Var-vet) Kenya 590 55 145 15.4% 23.7%
_ Somalia 232 140 257 11.5% 17.5%
Erythrocebus patas Nigeria 1m 2 5 (6.6%) 5.4% -
(Patas monkey)
Galago senegalensis Botswana d0 2 5.0% 7.5%
(Bushbaby) Kenya 195 35 14 7.2% 25. 136
P5010 anubis Ethiopia 2m 7 19 9.4% 12.9%
(Olive baboon) Kenya 155 57 42 1.9% 4.5%
ASIAN

Macaca Fascicularis Indonesia 0'72 465 1 135 {11.3% 15.9%
(Long-tail macaque) Malaysia 753 157 1 355 15.5% 17.5%

Philippines 927 300 424 (7.2% 12.2%

Macaca mulatta India 919 12 205 E4396) (“5%
(Rhesus monkey) Bangladesh 315 a 18 5.7%) 7'0%
Manama nmmnlzri n5 Tndnnnsia 227 1.1 22 E10.1:1‘X.; 14.5%
(I‘lu-L‘ull nuacudUU) Mu luyu'lu Ufl. .133 7” 1 l..|'l. " IJI’i.

 




PRIHATE MORTALITY UPON ARRIVAL IN THE U.S. (JANUARY TO DECEMBER 1984)

 

y.

ANNEX 3.

(N.8.Under the new system of recording details of causes of death are not available as shown in Annex 1).

SPECIES

DIED WITHIN 90

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Source: Center for Disease Control,Primate Import Forms

 

EXPORTING QUANTITY DEAD ON ARRIVAL TOTAL MORTALITY
COUNTRY IMPORTED No. 2 DQZS FRO“ D;SEASE No. 2

NEW VORLD

Sguirrel Monkey Guyana 466 30 6.42_ 28 6.42 58 12.42

(Saimiri aciureua) Bolivia 177 9 5.12 13 7.72 22 12.42
Canada 4 - - - -

Black-capped Capuchin Guyana 30 - - I 3.32 I 3.32

(Cebu: apella) Canada 26 - - ~ - r -
Bolivia 5 I 20.02 - - I 20.02

white-fronted " Guyana I4 I 7.12 r - I 7.12

(Cebua albifronay

White-faced Saki Guyana 17 - - - - - -

(Pithecus pithecus)

Golden Tamarin Guyana 6 - — r - - -

(Saguinus midas)

Owl Monkey Guyana 28 - - - - - ‘

(Aotua trivirgatus)

Cebua,Saimiri, Guyana 407 Primate Import Forms incomplete.

Saguinua a Pithecua '

app.

AFRICAN

Vervet Monkey Kenya 423 22 5.22 85 21.22 107 25.32

(Cercopithecua aethiops)Bthiopia 246 60 24.42 35 18.82 95 38.62
St.Kitts 119 - - 3 2.52 3 2.52
Togo 30 r ' r ‘ ' '
Barbados 29 - - - - r '

Cercopithecus app. Togo 35 - - r - ‘ '

Pataa Monkey Togo 6 - r r r r '

(Erythrocebus paras)

Black 8 white Colobus Kenya 2 - ' r ’ ‘ '

(Colobus guereza)

Demidoff" Bmhbaby Togo I73 61 35.32 83 74.12 14:. 83.22

(Galago demidovii7_

Olive Baboon Ethiopia 420 16 3.82 2 0.52 18 4.32

(Papio anubis) Kenya 217 6 2.82 2 0.92 8 3.72
Togo 4 - - - — - -

Colobus spn. G Togo 35 - - 10 28.62 10 28.62

Galago demidovii. (Forms incomplete)

cerCOPithecus & (Forms incomplete) 27 - - - - - -

Erythrocebus app.

ASIAN

Lonrtail Magaque Phillipine 5.637 232 4.12 355 6.62 587 10.4:

(Hacaca fascicularis) Indonesia 2,730 159 5.82 129 5.02 288 10,51
Malaysia 618 28 4.52 66 11.22 74 11.92
Canada 64 - - 6 9.42 6 9.42
Guyana 45 4 8.82 9 21,92 13 28.82

_§igétail Macaque Indonesia 150 9 6.02 - - 9 6.02

Macaca nemestrina)

Rhesus Macaque China 90 1 1.12 - - 1 1.12

(Macaca mulatta) Canada 27 - - - - - -

Macaca spp. Japan 10 - - -

., Public Health Service, US Department of Health 5 Human Sevicea.

 




x
L-

1H}

A

'1 {21’3"

Date

0
I
ii

I
1..

CONGRES
12

._r
.
P'YJ ':
,1. .i L
7,. .
r
..

{i

‘T

3

ALE.

.5 F0
Ce
3
F0

‘1
4.

Washington
WMERCL

#83

1868 Columbi

“

\

a a vu

 

2. ad.
ki

..,
.1:

9.

SIONAL RECORD CLIPPINGS
a Road,
, DOC,
1

a

LIL“); ‘a L-{QAJ AVA-Una. van. ~

v
J

reign Relat:
zqua

R A EAORATQ
10

Kill
marina}.
Lserva'

'5.-
m:
:L“

IQN MYMRESCKF'

N.W,
20009

 




CONGRESSIONAL RECORD CLIPPINGS
1868 Columbia Road, N.W
Washington, DHC, 20009

Date: a} e13 398?

"TE 1 June .2, 1981

AMENDMENT OF MARINE Psoreew
TION, RESEARCH” AND sin-screw
ARIES ACT

At the request of Mr. STE-Visits the Sen—J
ate prmeeded to consider the bill, «S
1213) to amend title I of the Marine
Protection. Research and Sanctuaries
Act, as amended. “

Mr. CHAFEE. Mr. President.) on
March 26, 1981, the Acting Adminism
trator of the Environmental Protection:
Agency requested. an additional $2 mil-
lion in ﬁscal year 1982 to carer "out the
functions under section 111 of the Mae
rine Protection, Research, and Sanctuo
aries Act. In documents submitted to the
Committee on Environment and Public
Works to support this request, the Agency
indicated the increased authorization was
n--_~w.~-v +3.. ocntirxu's bile pngi-cuub' au~

horized by title I, to meet the Agency’s
obligation under a stipulation agreement
and to establish and implement plans to
phase out the dumping of sewage sludge:
and industrial waste in ocean waters
prior to January 1, 1982, as required by
Public Law 96-4372,.

Title I of the Marine Protection» Re—
search, and Sanctuaries Act, regulates
the transportation and disposal 0i” mas
tcriels in the ocean. As part of, the title

, I program, the Environmental Pr'etecT-tion
Agency reviews ocean dumping permit
applications and, where appronriate, is..-
sues specie}, general research, or ends»
gene-y permits, The Agency eiso review,
permit applications for the disposai mi?
dredged rraaeiel and evaluates and acts
on w' is .r re:,:guests by the Army Corps in?
Engineers. The program evaluates potm _,
tied and current dun‘iping sites and. tiers—r
ignates dump—sites for speciﬁc «2
charges. -

The vast irrajority of the shes desiga
hated are for the disposal of dredged mas
teriai. still-resell sites for ether materials:
a: :,. assessed end designated where apprw
priete. Finally, in implementing title 11
the regency participates in the Internae
tioni—ii (Mean Dui‘npine Convention. This
$3313 ii'if‘triiﬂsﬁiﬁ’, the existing ﬁscal year 1M”
authorize"Hon tn support the pmgrems
under this tithe

The primary feces 1: the program. sins--
ported by this increa e. authorization is
the maniation and designation of ocean
thumping sites for the d s osal of dredged
arraitcriei. The Corps has indicated a. cons
tinuous and growing need for such sites.
and the Environmental Protection
Agency has the "espz‘snsibiiitr not an?“

0
S

i
i

I x-c any “3'
to (‘iesignste- new 32::
evaluate on a run.
523 sites currently *-

‘ ‘ .' W;
r 981”} 1
o

fieid surefire-‘3 and enssr'rz: : t, 1 .. r :7 the
ocean which are not curre the used for
ocean dumping but which are potential
ocean dumping sites, as well as of areas
which. are eurrentiy used. or have been
used in the past. as either interim or ﬁnal:
sites for dredged material:

8, 1213‘ which the committee ordered
reported by a unanimous voice vote on
May 119 provides increased authorization
for title I of the Marine Protection. Ree
search an Sanctuaries Act. as requested
by the administratior. in the amount of.
$2,008,000. This makes the total authors

 




Jime 2‘, 1981

ization for ﬁscal year 1982 $4,218,0001The
committee did not extend thealatheriw
for time I. beg/"end ﬁscal year 1982., “ '

The bill was ardered to be engrossed
fer a third reading read the third, time,
and. passed. as fQ-MQWS:

35: it; enacted by the Sewn: and Home af
REspresxentaéiiwes of the Unitmi? Simcs 01‘
America. in (Congress asscmbiea'f, The? SEC“
tion 111 of the Marine Prcz-teci'jcm, Resmarsrh
and Sanctuaries Act as: amendeaﬂ 931-? Le“:
1.425)}, is amended by striszing A
year 198:2,” and new; in lieu ﬂirt-#112172” '
mat L0 exceeci $42,21135006 for ﬁscal 35ers: -: J .

Mir. STEVENS1 Mn Presiﬂent, I mave-
Lo recansider the vete by which the bill
passed.

Mr. ROBERT C‘. BEE—ED I mme m 112:;
that. motion 0n the table.

The motion to lay en the. taEﬂe: was:

‘

'L' 1 "urﬂfsal fr‘

We

 




 

 

ENVIRONMENTAL

 

 

 

 

FOR RELEASE: I \ FOR MORE INFORMATION, CONTACT:

Monday, August 10, 1981 William Brown 833-1484
Michael Bean 833-1484

 

////IIWWIIII\\

\
\.

EDF DOCUMENTS DESTRUCTION OF WILDLIFE BI ACID RAIN f

\\_W ”‘M' . -
, /,«—

 

“I”

THE ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE FUND TODAY ISSUED A REPORT

DOCUMENTING THE DESTRUCTION OF WILDLIFE BY ACID RAIN.

"The massive, destructive impact of acid rain on
wildlife and forests is little appreciated by the millions of people
in this country who enjoy and care about wildlife conservation,"
according to Dr. William Y. Brown, EDF's wildlife scientist.
Although the U.S. and Canadian governments recently compiled much
of the available information on wildlife destruction by acid rain,
the governments' first "interim" report, completed in February 1981,
was only recently made available to the public. EDF's paper on
"Acid Rain and Wildlife Conservation" summarizes the data compiled,
together with significant additional information on forests only
recently published.

"Entire ecosystems are threatened by acid rain,"
says Dr. Brown, "including the Boundary Waters Canoe Wilderness
Area in Minnesota, the Adirondacks in New York State, and even the
Great Smokey Mountains in North Carolina and Tennessee. Ecosystems
will be disrupted and destroyed wherever acid rain is heavy and the
geochemistry of the earth's surface cannot buffer the effects of acids."
EDF's paper documents the loss of commercial and sport fisheries in
the United States and Canada, the degradation of lake plankton
essential to community food chains, threats to forest ecosystems
of great commercial value, and other known and potential_devastating
effects of acid rain.

"Our nation must act now to curtail emission of
responsible air pollutants," adds Dr. Brown, "particularly sulphur
dioxide emissions from coal-fired power plants." The Congress is
.Currently debating the fate of the Clean Air Act, whose authorization .?,
for funding expires September 30,128 . The Reagan Administration '
has not announced a= position on the statute, and Secretary of Interior

"' more ""

 




James Watt's chairmanship of the cabinet level committee on natural
resources and the environment has not been reassuring to conserva-
tionists. "Substantial reductions in sulphur dioxide emissions can
be achieved with comparatively little cost to power users," says
Dr. Brown, "and abstract objections to environmental regulations
should not deter the Congress from rational action to conserve our

national heritage in living resources."

The Environmental Defense Fund is a 13—year—old non-profit
[membership organization. The work of its scientific and legal staff
focuses on environmentally and economically sound use of land, air,

water, and human resources.

Enclosed is an EDF paper entitled "Acid Rain and
Wildlife Conservation." The paper distills a mass of information
compiled jointly by the United States and Canada in preparation for
the negotiation of an international agreement on transboundary air
pollution. Although prepared for internal governmental use, these
data were recently made available to the public. Several additional
studies, including in particular work done on damage to forests,
are also included in the EDF paper.

The observations summarized in this paper are
sobering. Major areas of eastern North America, and perhaps the
West, are threatened with massive loss of life forms because of
acid rain. Although continuing, intensive research on the problem
is essential, failure to take immediate steps to curtail the responsible
pollutants, sulphur dioxide in'particular, would demonstrate a
reckless attitude of our society toward living resources.

We urge you to read the paper carefully and to do
what you can to solve the problem. Two fundamental steps are urgent:

o The Congress must not weaken the limits
on sulphur and nitrogen oxide pollution
currently required under the Clean Air

Act.

9 A new law should be enacted to substantially
reduce sulphur dioxide emissions in the
.eastern United States. The National Clean
Air Coalition is working on this bill and
it needs your support.

Please contact us if we can-be of further assistance.

1525 18th Street, N.W. Washington, DC 20036 33.1. 202-833°1484
OFFICES IN: NEW YORK, NY (NATIONAL HEADQUARTERS); WASHINGTON, DC; BERKELEY. CA; DENVER, CO

 




ACID RAIN AND WILDLIFE CONSERVATION

Prepared by Dr. William Y. Brown
Environmental Defense Fund

August 1981

Acid deposition is currently being observed in most of
eastern North America. Within this half-continent are

surface soil material and

buffering capacity for acid
inputs and are identified as "potentially sensitive."
These areas include some of the most unique, unspoiled
and biologically productive environments in North
America. The potential is high for environmental
degradation from the deposition of acid and other
pollutants. (U.S.—Canada Work Group on Impact
Assessment of Transboundary Air Pollution, Interim
Report, January 15, 1981.) ~

THE CAusgs
Acid rain is caused principally by pollution of the air
with sulphur oxides and nitrogen oxides. Most sulphur oxides
come from the smoke of coal-fired power plants and ore
smelters. These power plants, plus car and truck exhaust, add
nitrogen oxides to the air. In atmospheric water, sulphuric
acid and nitric acid are formed. These acids fall with rain

and snow, then flow to streams and lakes. Precipitation in

large areas of North America is forty times more acid than

normal. Sometimes combined with acids formed on the ground by
gaseous and solid pollution, this acid rain is destroying
wildlife in poorly buffered areas over much of the eastern

United States and Canada.l’2

 




 

THE MECHANISMS
Acid rain destroys wildlife primarily in three ways.
First, acid rain directly inhibits reproduction in many
2,3,4

species. Second, acid rain can release toxic metals

(aluminum, manganese, iron) which kill animal and plant

5,6,7,8,9

life. Third, acid rain can discharge from

ecosystems other metals which are essential to many plants and

animals (Calcium and magnesium).8’9

THE DESTRUCTION 0F WILDLIFE

Freshwater Lakes and Streams

Acid rain can dramatically alter the kinds and diversity of
animals and plants inhabiting lakes and streams. Many lakes
have been stripped of most native life altogether.

disruption gj microorganisms

 

 

Field and laboratory studies in Scandinavia and North
America indicate that bacterial diversity decreases in
acidified water, accompanied by an increase in fungi, decrease
in community respiration, and possible inhibition of the
Nitrogen Cycle.2’10 -

degradation gﬁ plankton

 

Plankton communities in lakes are sensitive to rising acid
concentration. Generally one or two species of resistant algae

become abundant while other native species diminish and may be

11,12 13,1a,15

lost Overall, species diversity drops. The




dominant algae in acid lakes, 8 group called dinoflagellates,

cannot readily be eaten by invertebrate animals in the

plankton.2’ll

invasion g: Sphagnum moss

p.—

 

When lakes become acid, species of larger plants may be

replaced by Sphagnum mosses. Moss invasion has been documented

16,17,18,l9

in Sweden, Canada, and New York State. Sphagnum

 

moss forms extensive, dense beds. ’In New York State, growth of
moss has been accompanied by proliferation of acid tolerant

algae, which has completely covered larger plants in some areas
and blocked the capture of sunlight.19

disappearance gj molluscs and crustaceans

 

 

Molluscs and crustaceans cannot live in acid waters.
Molluscs are generally restricted to water with pH greater than

5.8 to 6.0--less acidic than many lakes affected by acid

20,21,22 23

rain. Many crustaceans are similarly sensitive.

The need of these animals for calcium, and its depletion from

waters turned acid, may be responsible.2

failure pf reproduction in amphibians

 

 

Many species of frogs, toads and salamanders breed in
temporary pools of meltwater formed in the spring. These pools
are often very acid. Embryonic mortality and deformity is
great in certain salamanders at pH less than 6.0. Yet the

average breeding pool for these same species is 32 times more

3,24

acid. Particularly sensitive species of amphibians

include:25

 




 

Wood frog (Rana sylvatica)

 

American toad (Bufo americanus)

Northern spring peeper (Hyla crucifer)

Chorus frog (Pseudacris triseriata)

Yellow-spotted salamander (Ambystoma maculatum)

Blue—spotted salamander (Ambystoma laterale)

Tremblays salamander (Ambystoma tremblayi)
It is inevitable that amphibian species such as these will
suffer severe decreases and will become locally extinct.
Reduction in the biomass of amphibians may have far-reaching
effects in both aquatic and terrestrial ecosystems, because
salamanders and frogs are important prey for birds and
mammals.2 .

fish loss

 

High acid concentration can inhibit larval development of

fish and promote aluminum and mercury concentrations to toxic

2,5,7,25-30

levels. Massive kills have been observed for

Atlantic salmon31 and brown trout32 in Europe and for
pumpkinseeds, during spring snow melt, in North America.33
However, less dramatic increases in mortality and drops in
reproduction are more significant over the long term,

eliminating many species from significant areas of their range:

° brook trout no longer can Survive in at least 180
acidified Adirondack ponds where they formerly
11ved.34




nearly half of the Aidrondack lakes may be
acidified and devoid of fish--10 times more than
50 years ago.

fish have disappeared from many lakes in Ontario,
Canada. Consider Lumsden Lake (one of 68 case
studies):33

19505: 8 species of fish present.

1960: last report of yellow perch and
burbot.

1960—65: sport fishery fails (pH 6.8 in
September of 1961).

1967: last capture of lake trout.

1968: white sucker suddenly rare.

1969: last capture of trout perch, lake
herring and white sucker.

1970: only lake chub present.

1971: lake chub very rare (pH 4.4 in
August of 1971).

Thousands of lakes in Ontario and Quebec, many of
them prime sport fisheries for 0.3. and Canadian
citizens, may be similarly lost if acid rain
continues at present rates.

In Nova Scotia, acidification threatens 30% of the

Atlantic salmon populations. Salmon reproduction

has ceased in nine rivers where the fish once

lived. Canada may be following in the footsteps

of Norway, where acid rain has devastated salmoid

fish.36

Fish populations in lakes and rivers generally are

genetically distinct, being locally adapted. Elimination of a
population is therefore not reversible by restocking.

Furthermore, replacement stocks will not survive if acid rain

is not abated, nor will they survive with lower acid

concentrations if essential elements have been expelled from

the ecosystem by former high acidity.2

 




   
     
      
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
   
    
    
    
   
 
   
     

Common Loon
(Gavia immer)

Common merganser
(Mergus merganser)

Hooded merganser
(Mergus cucullatus)

Red-breasted merganser
(Mergus serrator)

Great blue heron
(Ardea herodias)

Belted kingfisher
(Megaceryle alcyon)

Common goldeneye
(Bucephalus clangula)

Ring-necked duck
(Aythya collaris)

'decline gﬁ birds and mammals
Birds and mammals which depend on acid-sensitive animals

and plants for food can be expected to decline when feeding

lakes and streams become acidified.

disappeared from acid lakes in Sweden.14’37 In North

as well as increased human disturbance.

Birds and Mammals Susceptible to Acid Rai

Fish-eating birds have

America, the Common Loon has declined in the Adirondacks over

the last 15 years, paralleling the decline in fish populations

38’39 The following

birds and mammals are considered particularly susceptible to

acid rain in North America and should be monitored closely:

n25

BlaCk Duck
(Anas rubripes)

Green-winged teal
(Anas carolinensis)

Mallard ‘
(Anas platyrhynchos)

Northern pintail
(Anas acuta)

American widgeon
(Anas americana)

American mink
(Mustela vison)

River otter
(Lutra canadensis)

Muskrat
(0ndatra zibethicus)




Forests

Beech and spruce forests in West Germany provide the only
;long-term information concerning effects of acid rain on
forests.8. In these forests, already acidic rain is made two
to four times more acid by sulphur dioxide and particulates.
The acid is releasing aluminum salts in the soil, killing
rootlets. The beech forest is considered to be doomed and the
spruce forest unlikely to survive.

These studied West German forests are grown on sensitive,
unbuffered soil. No industry is in the forest area, although
the Essen—Dusseldorf Industrial Area lies 130-150 km to the
west. No study has demonstrated such damage to forests in
North America. However, many forest ecosystems should be
considered at risk and monitored carefully. These include such

unique ecosystems as the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness

of Northern Minnesota,40 the Great Smoky Mountains National

Park in Tennessee and North Carolina,41 the Adirondack

Mountains in New York,42 and the Kejimkujik National Park in

Nova Scotia.2

THE SOLUTION TO THE PROBLEM

Acid rain will abate only with reduction in the amount of
sulphur and nitrogen oxides put into the air by coal-fired
power plants, smelters, refineries, cars, trucks, and other

sources. A major positive and feasible step would be reduction

 




 

in the amount of sulphur dioxide emissions by power plants.

  
      

The National Commission on Air Quality has estimated that a

seven million ton reduction in annual sulphur dioxide emissions

   

by eastern utilities can be achieved by 1990 with an average

 
  
   
   
  
  
  
     
    
   
 
 
   
   

increase of less than two percent in eastern utility bills.
The National Clean Air Coalition is investigating the
additional cost of a reduction totaling ten millions tons.

Because a reduction of seven to ten million tons of sulphur

 

dioxide constitutes some 40% to 57% of total emissions in the
East, the abatement of acid rain would be substantial.

To stop the destruction of wildlife by acid rain, concerned
'citizens, organizations, government agencies and elected
officals should:

0 support those existing limitations on emissions of
sulphur and nitrogen oxides which have been set under
the Clean Air Act. Many efforts are now underway to
weaken the Clean Air Act this autumn, and your help is
needed to keep the law intact.

0 support the efforts of the National Clean Air Coalition

to have new legal authority enacted to substantially
reduce sulphur dioxide emissions by 1990.

REFERENCES

 

1. Liken, G.E., R.F. Wright, J.N. Galloway, and T.J. Butler.
1979. Sci. Amer. 241:43-51.

2. U.S.—Canada Work Group on Impact Assessment of
Transboundary Air pollution, Interim Report, January 15,
1981. [This document is the principal source of
information referenced here in this paper.)

       
   




COOPERATING ORGANIZATIONS

OEnvironmental Policy Center

0Northern Virginia Conservation Council
OFriends of the Earth

0Pub|ic Citizen’s Congress Watch
ONatural Resources Defense Council
OAmerican League of Anglers
OEnvironmental Defense Fund
0Federation of Fly Fishermen

OBass Anglers Sportsman’s Society of
America (B.A.S.S.)

0Montgomery Environmental Coalition
OSierra Club

OEnvironmental Action, Inc.

OAmerican Rivers Conservation Council
Olzaak Walton League Of America
0League of Conservation Voters

.are among the many, many national and
local organizations with which Clean Water
Action Project has worked for clean water and
safer drinking water. '

DAVID R. ZWICK
Director
Clean Water Action Project

Help Clean Water Action Project help you

The Clean Water Project’s main support is contributions
from people who care. Funds are used to provide the
fulltime staff, printing, postage, office, research and
other needs required to work effectively for clean
water. Because the Project is a non-profit, action organ-
ization that influences legislation, contributions are NOT
tax deductible. Please make checks payable to “Clean
Water Action Project.” Contributors of $15.00 or more
will receive six issues of the newsletter. Thank you for
your help.

CONTRIBUTION: :5 I5, 00
STAFF CPI/ff L16 1026le
Date é;//2'

NAME:

 

STREET:

 

CITY TOWN:

 

ZIP: PHONE:

 

I’m associated with the following organizations:

 

 

I have some time to do volunteer work and would be in-

terested in doing the following:

 

 

c , Kii’lwnen Acrionpnqucr

1341 G Street, N.w., Suite 200’“\
Washington, D.C. 20005 3
(202) 638-1 196

231 9 ﬁaFyTand’Avenue,‘ 3rd F Ioor
Baltimore, Maryland 21218
(301) 235-8808

CLEAN WATER ACTION PROJECT

A national non-profit organization for
research, lobbying, and citizen action.

1341 G Street, NW, Suite 200
Washington, D.C. 20005
(202) 638- 1196

2530 North Calvert Street
Baltimore, Maryland 21218
(301) 235- 8808

 




CLEAN WATER ACTION PROJECT

helps citizens _ THE CLEAN WATER ACTION PROJECT is a national citizen action organization established to work for strong pollution

‘ ' controls and safe drinking Water. Founded in 1971 as a District of Columbia non- profit corporation, the Project grew out
demand Clean water of the Ralph Nader Task force on water pollution, begun two years earlier

IT TAKES‘A FULLTIME EFFORT —— including lobbying, research and assisting citizen action— to make headway in

solving the pollution mess. Keeping up with complicated cleanup questions is a fulltime job. So is keeping up with

. Congress, and with the polluters' fulltime lobbies. The Project was begun to provide that effort. Over the past nine

by lobbying years, the Project has been the only national lobby group working fulltime on a sustained basis to get stronger water

full-time pollution and safe drinking water laws passed (Other groups — e. g., Natural Resources Defense Council and the.

. ' .' Environmental Defense Fund — have conducted fulltime programs litigating and pressuring the Environmental
Protection Agency for better enforcement.)

THE PROJECT is not a membership group. It works with citizen groups and other organizations throughout the country
and by organizing . with a stake in clean water (including health, labor farm, church, fishing, environmental, civic senior citizen neigh—
. . borhood, professional, and business groups), building coalitions that can get the job done
and working wzth .

cztzzen coalztzons THE CLEAN WATER ACTION PROJECT:

0 was instrUmental in drafting and lobbying for the landmark 1972 Clean Water Act, the law that set the
nation’ 5 polluters on an ambitious cleanup schedule

0 organized the national coalition that pushed successfully for strengthening and then enactment of the first

to achieve ' enforceable federal drinking water protections: the Safe Drinking Water Act of 1974.
. ' 0 built a successful campaign to defend and strengthen the Clean Water Act and Safe Drinking Water Act as
strong laws and they underwent major overhauls in the 1977 Congress, and continues to work for their enforcement.
. . . 0 helped organize and found citizen coaltions and clean water campaigns in several states. These include: the
their enforcement ' West Virginia Citizen Action Group, currently working to stop pollution from chemical and coal companies; a

. Virginia coalition which in 1975 won the Supreme Court victory that forced the Nixon Administration to release
$9 billion in illegally impounded water cleanup funds; a permanent statewide environmental coalition in South
Carolina; and the American League of Anglers the Washington-based action arm for the nation‘s sport-
fISherman. '

0 helped to reduCe the levels of cancer causing chemiCals including chloroform, in drinking water supplies
serving the District of Columbia metropolitan area. The Project alerted the public and responsible officials to
unreleased studies showing high chloroform levels in water from the Washington Suburban Sanitary .
Commission (WSSC) in Maryland and the Fairfax County Water Authority (FCWA) In Virginia proposed
solutions and coordinated efforts by citizen groups to demand corrective action The FCWA now supports the
Federal safety standards for chloroform and has reduced its levels by 60%, while a reformed WSSC has achieved"
a 90% reduction and has actively supported the Federal regulations to control organic chemicals In drinking
water.

0 is responsible for involving citizens, Congress, the Executive Branch local governments and private
indUstries- in a coordinated effort to redirect the nation’s sewage treatment program from its emphasis on
expensive and outmoded technology to aChieve wider use of more cost effective water and energy saving
recycling systems

0 Coordinated in the national campaign to defeat crippling amendments to wetland protection provisiOns of
the Clean Water Act of 1977 and is engaged in an outgoing effort to prevent destruction of small streams and
wetlands. ‘

0 is working to protect the District of Columbia’ 3 emergency drinking water supply and the Potomac from
sewage effluent, and prevent unnecessary sewer rate increases by recommending alternatives to Montgomery
County, MD 5 proposed Flock Run wastewater treatment plant. ‘

' played a key role in creating the American Clean Water Association (ACWA), a trade organization
representing the creative minority of businesses and professionals who do the best work in recycling of
resources and solving the pollution problem.

' is working to safeguard the Chesapeake Bay, Susquehanna River, and drinking water sources against
radioactive pollution from Three Mile island. . .

 

 




Cﬂeam Waﬁeza Aeﬁigm

CLEAN WATER ACTION PROJECT

Washington, DC. 20005

1341 G Street, NW.

(202) 638-1196

News

 

SUMMER
1978

INDEX

. Drinking Water
Standards Debated . . page 1

. Sewage Summit
Held ............... page 3

. “Liberating Technology:
Saving Our Water and
Dollars” ............ page 6
Ralph Nader Addresses
Citizens Conference

. Clean Water
News Front ........ page 10

DRINKING WATER
STANDARDS DEBATED

Proposed federal standards to protect
drinking water from cancer causing
chemical contaminants are running into
organized opposition as the September 1,
1978 deadline for public comments
nears.

The standards being debated were
announced on January 26, 1978 by
Environmental Protection Agency
Administrator Douglas Costle, as part of
the Safe Drinking Water Act of 1974.
(The regulations appear in the February
9th Federal Register.) They have been
described as the most important
proposed advance in drinking water
protection in this century. Cancer—
causing chemicals, although now known
to be prevalent in water supplies around
the country, have up to now been
completely unregulated.

EPA expects to make its final decision
on the standards known shortly after the
September comment deadline, when the
agency must promulgate the official
requirements. If adopted, the standards
would actually go into effect after five
years.

Leading the opposition lobby are
several of the water utilities that are
serving up the worst water in the US. to
their customers, including New Orleans,
La., Passaic, New Jersey, and Louisville,
Kentucky. Tests of these utilities’ water
have turned up some of the highest con—
centrations of cancer-causing chemicals
found in the country.

Public support for the standards
appears to be steadily growing, however.
The two largest Washington, DC. area
utilities — Washington Suburban
Sanitary Commission (WSSC) and
Fairfax County Water Authority (FCWA)
—— have both taken stands favoring all or
part of the proposed standards, as have

. citizen groups throughout the country,

including Clean Water Action Project.

Decades of Neglect

Playing catch-up is nothing new for
drinking water consumers. The battle
over the proposed standards is the latest
chapter in a struggle to overcome
decades of insufficient attention to
drinking water safety in the US.

The standards are aimed at controlling
levels of organic compounds in drinking
water. Some of the organic chemicals in
our water supplies come from the normal
decomposition of plants and leaves, and
the excrement of animals and humans.
But the greatest pollution danger is man—
made, the synthetic organics that have
been a waste product of American
industry since before the end of World
War II. They include mainly wastes of the
chemical industry.

Even though the problem has been
serious for more than thirty years, large
segments of the water supply treatment
industry have failed to recognize the
danger. Over the years, the , plant
operators and their lobby, the American
Water Works Association (AWWA), have
opposed enforceable national drinking
water standards and have resisted
needed innovation. Their emphasis has
been on treatment —— chlorination, for
example —- to eliminate the old
waterborne diseases like typhoid and
cholera.

Concentrating on contagious diseases
might have been sufficient 35 years ago.
But the introduction of dangerous
industrial chemical pollutants into our
water supply has rendered the old
treatment techniques obsolete.

Official national recognition of the
need to eliminate dangerous chemicals
from our drinking water first came in
1974 with enactment of the Safe
Drinking Water Act. But EPA’s enforce—

(continued on page 2)

 




 

“The most active opposition has come from a group
of utilities giving itself the deceptive moniker

‘Coalition for Safe Drinking Water.

(Continued from page 1)

ment of the law under Deputy Assistant
Administrator for Drinking Water Victor
Kimm has, until recently, all but ignored
this need, focusing instead on the old
protections from waterborne epidemics.

Citizen Advocates, Court Action
Demand Progress

EPA’s first set of regulations, proposed
in March 1975, originally included weak
standards for organics. So weak, in fact,
that 46 of the 50 states would have
passed with their existing treatment
requirements. The Environmental
Defense Fund (EDF) complained. Several
months later, the agency published
regulations without any organics
standard. EDF quickly sued EPA for the
omission. But the court opinion,
favorable for EDF, did not appear until
February 1978.

The actual impetus for change came a
few months earlier. In the fall of 1977, Dr.
Robert Harris of EDF and Ralph Nader
paid a visit to EPA’s t0p officials to protest
the stagnation in drinking water
standards. After the visit, EPA Adminis—
trator Douglas Costle and Assistant
Administrator Thomas Jorling ordered
preparation of the organics standards
now being considered.

Proposed Standards

The proposed standards contain two
parts. First, trihalomethanes must be
kept below 100 parts per billion (ppb).
(Fairfax County water in Virginia recently
tested by EPA registered at 200 ppb while
the Washington Suburban Sanitary
Commission has been able to reduce last
year's maximum levels of 300 ppb by
about 90% down to highs of 45 and
averages of less than 30.) Trihalo—
methanes are compounds produced
when water containing organic contami—
nants is disinfected by chlorination; the
chlorine and the organics are linked to
form these more dangerous contami—
nants. Some trihalomethanes, such as
chloroform, are known to cause cancer in
test animals.

The second part of the standards
applies to treatment plants serving more
than 75,000 peOpIe and exceeding the
limit for total organic content before
chlorination. In these plants, officials
must install activated carbon filters. The
filters effectively remove all measurable
organic compounds, thus avoiding the

dangers of trihalomethanes and other
organics.

Consumers Billed
for Dirty Water Lobby

When the standards were proposed,
elements of the water supply industry
began to campaign against them. The
most active opposition has come from a
group of utilities giving itself the
deceptive moniker ”Coalition for Safe
Drinking Water.” The Coalition's
member utilities are typically billing their
drinking water customers for their
campaign against the safeguards. In New
Orleans, for example, where recent polls
have shown strong public support for
removing organics from drinking water,
utility director Stuart H. Brehm, Jr., has
instead spent $7,000 of the pe0p|es’
money fighting for the right to keep their
water dirty and has pledged another
$7,000 to the dirty water lobby.

Some of the utilities' money has gone
to hire high-priced ”experts" to help
plead their cause, experts like
Washington attorney John Quarles, who
as EPA's Deputy Administrator during
the Nixon/Ford years worked for the Safe
Drinking Water Act's passage and later
wrote a book about his contributions to a
safe environment entitled Cleaning Up
America.

Utility Coalition's “Expert" Witnesses

The water works lobby's technical
spokesmen have been recruited from the
ranks of consultants for the chemical
industry. Francis Roe, for example, was
one of Shell Chemical's principal
witnesses in the EPA proceedings to ban
the carcinogenic pesticides aldrin and
dieldrin. His pro-industry positions
include the view that cancer may be "one
of Nature's ways of destroying sexually
effete individuals who would otherwise
compete for limited food supplies with
the sexually competent individuals on
whom the perpetuation of the Species
depends." Another water works
spokesman, Joseph Borzelleca of the
Medical College of Virginia, previously
worked for Allied Chemical defending the
safety of kepone.

The AWWA and the industry Coalition
have been equipping local Utilities with a
long list of standard objections bolstered
by factually inaccurate data, which have
been recited again and again at a series
of now—completed EPA hearings on the

2

)I)

proposed requirements held around the
country this summer and in utilities'
lobbying visits to their Congressional
representatives.

Significant Health Risks Cited

For example, treatment operators have
complained of the lack of conclusive
proof that specific levels of chlorination
byproducts in water will cause specific
numbers of human cancers. The nation's
top cancer researchers, however, point
outthatcancer researchtechniques have
not yet advanced to the point where they
can accurately give that answer, and
Congress made a special point of writing
the Safe Drinking Water Act so as not to
require that impossible degree of
certainty. Even so, cancer experts
consider the evidence of serious human
health risk substantial. At least ten
recent studies show a correlation similar
to the one EDF's Dr. Robert Harris first
found in his groundbreaking 1974 study
of New Orleans drinking water; data from
the Harris study suggested a significant
relationship between consumption ofthe
chemical-laden drinking water and
unusually high cancer rates. The
National Cancer Institute has made an
unprecedented official statement
supporting the need for the safeguards.

Samuel Epstein, an MD. and
nationally-noted cancer expert at the
University of Illinois, candidly summed
up his own reaction to the industry
Coalition's stance at the July 10 EPA
hearing in Washington, DC:
"professionals who are representing the
water works groups attacking these
regulations are espousing views that
have no scientific validity, and in general
have long ago been discredited by expert
scientific committees and by the courts.

Low Costs of Program

Operators have also argued that the
r99Ulati0n requiring carbon filters will be
too costly. Available figures do not
support their claim. EPA estimates that
52% of the population lives In
communities of 75,000 or more, the
communities subject to the regulations.
Of those communities, EPA has found
around 60 which will need the carbon
filters. The annual cost would be an
estimated $7 to $26 per household for a
family of three. (In a telephone survey 0f
bottled water suppliers in the

(Continued on page 11)

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

SEWAGE SUMMIT HELD

 

 

Sewage has clearly come of age. A
subject that used to draw mainly
snickers, sewage was the subject that
drew more than 300 people from more
than 40 states to Washington, DC. on
April 28-30 and to Denver, Colorado, on
June 2-4. The group included citizen
leaders, sewage treatment technology
experts and public officials.

One reason for the interest: fueled by
more than $5 billion infederal funds each
year, and billions more in state and local
monies, the nation's sewage treatment
program has become big business.

How to control this massive program
before it controls us was the theme ofthe
two conferences, billed as “Shopping for
Sewage Treatment: How to Get the Best
Bargain for your Community or Home."
The conferences were sponsored by the
Clean Water Fund and the Environmental
Policy Institute, in cooperation with
Clean Water Action Project, with a grant
from the National Science Foundation's
Science for Citizens Program. Colorado
Open Space Council and the
Environmental Protection Agency joined
as co—sponsors of the Denver conference.

Enormous Spending Program

A sewage treatment system is to most
communities roughly what a home is to
most families: the single most important
(and in any event, probably the most
expensive) consumer purchase they will
ever make. And on the national scale, the
sewage treatment effort has become the
biggest domestic public works Spending
program of all time. This national
shopping spree will, it is clear, have an
enormous impact on the future of
American communities. Ballooning
municipal budgets and possible
bankruptcy, skyrocketing sewer and tax
bills, suburban sprawl, downtown
neighborhood deterioration, critical
water shortages, housing and land
scarcity, soaring farm fertilizer costs,
waste of energy and other resources, not
to mention massive environmental
destruction: all these can be costs of
making the wrong decisions.

The aim of the conferences—described
in Clean Water Action Project Director
David Zwick’s opening remarks as the

nation's first ”sewage summit" —— was to
help citizen leaders and public officials
make sure their communities do the best
they can with these high—stakes choices.

Sweeping Changes Advocated
Some key conference developments:

0 With more than 99% of the federal
grant money spent since 1972 going for
conventional treatment technologies, the
federal program has had a ”multi-billion
dollar smothering impact on innovation,"
charged D.C. conference speaker Ralph
Nader. Nader called for the creation of a
nationwide network of Citizen Water
Councils consisting of organized con—
sumers, to overcome a plethora of
obstacles to properly-performing tech—
nology. He and other speakers predicted
that it would take strong organizations of
water consumers to hold drinking water
and sewer utilities accountable to the
public. (See the Nader remarks on pg. 6.)
0 Assistant Administrator for Water and
Hazardous Materials, Thomas Jorling,
who heads the nation’s water program,
affirmed his commitment to making
”sweeping changes" in the way cities
handle their sewage. The turn towards
greater use of recycling will be accom—
plished, according to Jorling, by moving
EPA monies “up front," that is, spending
more EPA money on studying

 

EPA's Thomas Jorling
discusses changes needed
in nation’s sewage
treatment program.

Photo by Susan Hunter-Silverman

alternatives before building and leaving
more of the role of overseeing
construction to other agencies. (Excerpts

_ from Jorling’s remarks will be included in

the next newsletter in September.)

0 The country's pioneering technical
experts exchanged information, in many
cases for the first time, with the expert
developers of other alternative sewage
treatment technologies. The conferences
furthered a cross-fertilization of new
technical ideas that can be expected to
result in more rapid progress towards
improved waste management.

0 Non-experts from every corner of the
country, ordinary citizens and public
officials alike, voiced a need for more help
in understanding and controlling the
complexities of the entire process of
getting federal funding and building a
sewage system. Many conference
participants called upon EPA to begin
filling the gap with an active, funded,
public education program.

Conference Proceedings Available

Conference sponsors are preparing a
reader based on the conference
proceedings, which is expected to appear
in the fall. Future issues of Clean Water
Action News will feature highlights from
the conference proceedings.

Conference coordinator and former
Clean Water Action Project research
director, Michael Gravitz, in a wrap-up
statement, advised participants to use
their new knowledge and contacts to
become involved with planning sewage
systems in their communities.

David Zwick, Director of Clean Water
Action Project agreed.

”Spread the word,” he said. “Attempt
to build the constituency that exists —
taxpayers, farmers, senior citizens,
people concerned about their
neighborhoods."

Said Gravitz: “Go and do it."A

 




 

 

 

 

Carl Lindstrom and Abby Rockefeller of C/ivus John Marsh and Dr. John Sheaffer (right) talked about land treatment and
Mu/trum discuss the merits of the composting sewage recycling.
toilet at the conference.

   

The need for technical assistance was stressed by Mary IReard V i z ’ ' ' “’5 """ ‘
. . . on Of the Ron F k " ' ' M rrimack,
National Assocratlon of Counties. ran , Cltlzen actrvnst from 9 . ,
New HampShire, talked about his communItY 5

sewage treatment battle.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Audrey Moore, Fairfax County Board of
Supervisors, raised questions about local
implications of EPA policies.

Local citizen leaders Bernard Nagelvoort, Montgomery Environmental Coalition
and Frederick Stearns (right), Western Upper Montgomery County Citizens
Assn., exchange views during conference.

 

John Marsh, from Oklahoma, talked about
organizing farmers for support for land
treatment systems.

Patty Nesbitt and Dave Del Porto discussed sewerless individual home systems.

Clean Water Action Project Director David Participants question Dr. Joseph Harrington after his presentation on
Zwick urges conference participants to carry conventional sewage treatment.
the information back to their communities, and

Organize for effective action, Photos by Susan Hunter-Silverman

 




 

 

 

RALPH NADER ADDRESSES

CITIZENS' CONFERENCE ON ”SEWAGE TREATMENT:
HOW TO GET THE BEST BARGAIN

FOR YOUR COMMUNITY OR HOME."

APRIL 29, 1978

LIBERATING TECHNOLOGY:
SAVING OUR WATER

Powerful Vested Interests

The particular problem we’re
addressing here today has numerous
characteristics that are prevalent in
many other areas of publically—
purchased technology. These character-
istics present a series of obstacles to
innovation and to broader value systems
than the value systems of the firms and
the government agencies, the
professional organizations that work in a
particular technological area. We know,
of course, that there is a sub-economy
that's developed in this country that has
pushed expenditures in sewage
treatment to considerably high levels,
and it’s one of the few areas in the
environmental sector that has a very
powerful vested interest. You really don't
have to worry about Congress sunsetting
this part of the program, or saying that
this part of the program is a
fundamentally inflationary factor in our
economy. Notice that when Mr. Robert
Strauss indicated that he was going to go
after environmental regulations, there
was no mention of this area whatsoever.

The problem is something that has not
been given very wide publicity. For some
reason it has been suffused with
technical jargon and technical societies
and technical firms who are not really
interested in publicizing this in a broad
sense to reach the millions of people who

AND DOLLARS

are paying the bills, from both an
economic and a health standpoint.
Furthermore, it has an image that it's
now on track, and it’s a construction
program — you just keep on building and
building. It has an image of having
momentum.

No Organized Citizen Constituency

Well, as we might well have suspected,
this problem, in its breakdowns, is
beginning to permeate other areas of the
environmental health and it’s comingfull
cycle to plague us. In particular, note the
weak efforts to implement the Safe
Drinking Water Act of 1974 bythe EPA. A
recent slight revival of the recognition of
that law by the EPA is suffering grossly
from the lack of a citizen constituency——
not even an organized citizen constitu-
ency, just a plain unorganized citizen
constituency. And in the hearings EPA
has held around the country in recent
months, the water works people have
been there in full force, equating our
constitutional rights with the freedom to
drink risky water until the evidence of
health damage is fully substantiated —
which means a statistically representa—-
tive sample of victims geographically
around the country who fall on their
knees, about to expire, and utter the
words, ”It was cadmium in our drinking
water."

Facets of the Problem

Now, the various facets of the problem
in the sewage treatment area can be
summarized quite quickly.

0 One is the usual corruption that
attends government procurement
programs. I say usual now because the
clearly recent events have shifted the
burden of proof on those who have a
Pollyanna view of life in the procurement
area, and now even the Government
Service Administration has been
stunned with exposure of kickbacks in
the management of relatively simple
technologies known as government
office buildings. We do have a corruption
problem, and that translates of course
often to substandard technology.

0 A second aspect, of course, is
contamination of our drinking water both
by the pollutants and the chemicals used
to treat them. We all have heard of the
chlorine problem and its propensity to
combine with other industrial chemicals
to produce chloroform and carbon
tetrachloride.

0 Another is the depletion and waste of
water resources. The scarce fresh water
effluent is being piped into the ocean in
many placeswhile ground water supplies
are drained dry. Florida has a really
serious problem—it’s going to become
even more serious—of the depletion of
the underground water reserves. N9t
only that, but the carcinogens in Miami 8
drinking water are very numerous, which
indicates that the process of contamina—
tion is well-advanced.

0 Then there's the nonre/iability of the
technology itself. It's been estimated that
about 50% of the federally funded
treatment plants will fail to m69t
design specifications or even comPIY
with federal pollution control standards.
So we may have some real whlte
elephants — to give it a .more
metaphorical phrase. Nothing's 90mg to
be more disappointing than when the
bills come due and these systems are
found not only to degrade rapidly but not
even to have worked properly at the
outset. This, of course, will also be
associated with the rising taxes to pay
sewer bills, and pretty soon that rise may
be another stimulant to make the utility
perform, along with the public outcry
against higher electricity prices and 935
pnces.




 

 

o In some localities, of course, there is
neighborhood disruption. You don't see
major central sewage treatment plants in
Scarsdale or Grosse Point, and the
situation We described is going to tend to
develop more and more neighborhood
concern for the immediate presence of
these kinds of installations. New York has
shown us what the legacy of sludge can
be like, with the expiration of much ofthe
oceanic life around the New Jersey coast
and the south New York State area. In
fact, they call it "Dead Sea," and they
have other descriptions for it, and it's kind
of a mode of economic growth, is it not? I
mean, you finish off one part of the
environment; this creates new economic
demands to deal with the wreckage in the
first place, and in a kind of spiral of
technological insanity, you increase the
gross national product.

0 And then there are the worker
hazards, which I think would do more to
dramatize the subject than perhaps
anything else. I'm sure some of you, who
have Spoken to workers who descended
the depths, know that it isn’tjusta kind of
disagreeable type of work — they face
deficient oxygen, digging and crawling
around in the sewers, the toxic gases —
sometimes fatal — explosions, etc.

0 There is also the stifling of available
technologies. The country periodically
gets into a serious grip of technological
Stalgnation because the new
technologies challenge the traditional
Investment in the old technologies and
They also challenge the traditional vested
Interest, vested ideas. There are people
Who have worked all their careers on a
certain technology. They’ve got their
$3908 and their reputations committed to
It and they feel threatened by some other
technology, particularly one that isn’t
h'Qh'Y capitalized, or maybe a little more
decentralized, a little more practical, a
little more old-fashioned, a little more
Quaint, a little more rural, and smaller.
it 8 like the image of one going backwards
Into the future. There isn't just an
ecOriomic vested interest. It's very much
an Intellectual or professional vested
Interest that John Kenneth Galbraith has
called “the most entrenched of all vested
Interests." We see this in the nuclear,
area, the automobile area; we see it in the
Cosmetic area. You have to displace
certain habits, certain career roles, and

that means coming up against solid stone
walls.

Now, the question of liberating the
technology, of course, raises the various
alternatives that you've discussed and
will discuss later on in this conference,
alternatives such as sewage recycling
and the sewerless technologies that have
been suggested and have been working
in some parts of this country and the
world.

Obstacles to Technology Alternatives

But the question is not so much that
we're going to come up with some new
ideas or apply some old ideas that have
been blocked, but what are the obstacles?
Are they purely technical? No, they are
not purely technical. They're not even
purely economic. They basically are
obstacles that deal with a very tightly
organized sub—economy that surrounds
this multi-billion dollar industry, without
the susceptibility to displacement or
challenge from the outside. It is a very
secure type of sub-economy. It does not,
for example, have the insecurity of
competition. Competition is an
insecurity. If you don’t do a certain thing
in a right way and people who buy the
service or product know that there's a
better way, you're going to be insecure in
terms of being displaced by someone
else. In sewage treatment you have a
public procurement of materials and
services. You don't have the kind of
competition you have in a more ideal
setting, in the market place. You also
have the kind of specifications and
standards that can tend to lock out
innovators or competitors or make it
incredibly difficult for them to, in fact,
submit their collective bids.

Now, the non-technical obstacles to
innovation extend beyond the absence of
competition. For example, you have the
internal resistance to change in the
government. The water works people
have even defined the lowest of
expectations about their ability to
change. In fact, this really surprised me,
and I don't surprise very easily when | see
this kind of intransigence. But when
Robert Harris went on a national survey
for me a few years ago on drinking water
contamination in various cities, he went
down to New Orleans and was treated

7

like a kind of Sherman heading for the
sea, only he didn't have any troops. And
he received a nasty kind of ”What are you
doing, asking questions? We've got
everything under control." And when he
put out his report on New Orleans
drinking water, the response of the
officials in Louisiana was astonishing.
The head of the public health unit in New
Orleans wentontelevision and said there
were a lot more dangerous things you
could do in New Orleans than drink the
water. And then, of course, the governor
did what was expected of the governor.
He said he just loves New Orleans
drinking water; it makes great iced tea
and he drinks it every time he's in New
Orleans.

Why has change been stifled? We can
go through a number of issues. They sort
of interlock among themselves. One is
that the utilities, of course, are
monopolies —— I mean the people, the
institutions in place. There’s also a kind
of technological monopoly which you've
talked about; the fact that you cannot find
firms easily available who want to do
alternative treatment work. The
conventional treatment dominates the
operating economy in this area.

There is also a scientific monopoly.
Teaching, research, training of, young
people to go into this area, have been
dominated by people who have the
conventional-style treatment know-how
and approach, so it tends to become an
inheritance process.

And then there's a professional lack of
competition. The sewage treatment
industry is dominated professionally by
the sanitary and civil engineers and their
professional codes of conduct can
sometimes stifle not only criticism but
needed competition.

Of course, all this could be so — this
closed network, this closed sub-
economy, this closed enterprise system,
if you want to call it that — and still be
susceptible to creative disruption by
superior forces, on the merits, if there
wasn't such a breakdown of
representation. It's hard enough for an
individual consumer in the market place
to protect oneself, but in this situation,
we are several layers removed in
responsibility. You have the third party
payment, you have the seeds for

(Continued on page 8)

 




 

 

 

iverman

 

Photo by Susan Hunter-

Ralph Nader discusses problems to innovation in sewage treatment technology.

(NADER, from page 7)

enormous waste and lack of accounta—
bility. Here we have, in effect, the city, or
the state or EPA, functioning as a
representative of the ordinary citizen, as
the public buyer, so by definition it's not
coming out of their pockets. This creates
opportunities for conflict of interest that
do not arise when buyers represent
themselves. All the commercial forces -—
labor, business, real estate operators,
large land owners, chemical companies,
construction — all have a stake in the
outcome of the sewage treatment
decisions. With so much money involved,
they have a reason to constantly lobby
and communicate with government at
every level. The saga of the revolving door
is known here as well. They
communicate in a way that ordinary
citizens, the consuming public, cannot
do, unless it's organized — organized in
ways which I will try to suggest in just a
very few minutes.

With this indirect representation of the

taxpayer, the consumer is removed a step-

further, because the city then delegates
some of its responsibilities to technical
consultants to give it advice. If you map it
out on a piece of paper —— the sewage
treatment industry and the government
role it's in — it’s a class case of delegation
run amuck.

It is notjustone-step delegation, which
is what a legislature is for people; or a
two-step delegation, which is what a
government department is; but it's a
three—, a four—, a five-,, and a six-step
delegation, often times, right back to the
private sector. It’s as if the public sector
serves as a sheen, a sheen of public
presence, but it's merely, in fact, a
transfer agent for the decisions to be
made back in the private sector where the
conflicts of interest between public trust
and private profit are apparent. Certainly
we should not burden the private sector
in the sewage treatment industry with
public trust; they have enough problems

8

   

just doing the job for the contracted
amount in a reliable confident manner.

Now the government, of course, bears
the burden here. It takes two to tango,
and they seem to promote the lack of
competition. When a dominant industry
or technology or profession converts its
power to political power, the activities of
government, if it tolerates this kind of
power, cements the absence of
competition and makes it even harder for
new ideas to come forward.

This happens in a number of ways. The
standards, of course, tend to be based on
the dominant solutions at the time rather
than on the best available solutions, and
things just sink to that level. It’s a
national requirement, for example, that
every city install secondary treatment.
This requirement has led EPA, in
response to overwhelming momentum
and pressure from established sewage
treatment forces to disallow anyone to
spend any extra money to do better than
secondary until everyone has arrived at
the secondary level — which, of course,
forces them down the conventional
treatment road in many cases. Another
example is the water quality standards,
which in many places are similarly based
on what conventional treatment can
accomplish rather than what clean water
is needed. If citizens want better
technology they have to work to raise
those standards so a better result is
achieved.

There are also the professional
standards which I have alluded to, and
these often screen out people with skills
to design some alternative systems.
There's nothing more heartrending in the
innovation area than to see someone
with a fairly good idea not getting a
chance to have it evaluated — after
knocking on doors a hundred times and
having them slammed shut. It's a political
game, it’s an access game of who has the
best know-who rather than know-how.

Then there's the problem of
professional standards intruding in the
agencies themselves. You get people
belonging to the same professional
societies; some work in government;
some work in industry. They meet each
other regularly, and there's a kind of
homogenization process. One
suggestion would be that all government
officials always refer to all private sector
contractors as Mr. or Ms. The minute you
start by first names, you’re on your way
down, and pretty soon you say, "HOW
about some golf?" The formality is really
broken down between government and
the people and the firms, who hover
around government for recurrent
contracts. There's also a tendency to
promote uniformity in the approval
process when being able to rubber stamp
standard solutions is easiest.




 

The problem with subsidies, of course,
when you have 75% federal money or
more from the government is that it can
dilute the demand for more efficient
solutions. Since 1972, more than 99% of
the federal grants money went for
conventional treatment. The federal
grants program has had a multi-billion
dollar smothering impact on alternative
technologies, and a lot of people have
said that. But more people have to say
that, until there’s a response to that
rather easily substantiated charge.

The civil service is also a part of it. It
means it takes more time for old
directions and cozy relationships to
change.

All these forces operating together, of
course, develop this network of obstacles
to finding the best solutions, experi—
menting with different solutions, and the
like.

So, how do we find our way back? How
do we free these available solutions or
develop the climate for the refinement or
expansion of present ideas that have
some sort of installation record but are
not diffused widely? This requires citizen
action, of course. A good question is,
given all the demands on citizens to get
interested in this and that, such as
neighborhood revitalization, housing,
consumer protection, air pollution
control, tax reform, mass transit, health
care, hospitals, nursing homes, police
protection, other municipal services ——
how can you put this in the ring? Particu—
larly since people don't like to say — in
answer to the question, "what are your
citizens’ concerns these days?" — the
answer, "sewage." So we know it always
produces the kind of snickers that reduce
that kind of civic enterprise to relatively
low status on the totem pole of other civic
enterprises.

Here are a few suggestions. First, one
98h say, citizens must get organized, and
If citizens do not get organized, the
prOoess will continue to deteriorate.
TrUIsm, number one. It's at that
recognition that we have to step back and
ask: how do we develop the instruments
Which will facilitate the attraction of the
small number of citizens in a community
Who could become most interested in
domg Something about this? In order to
do this, you have to have an inexpensive
Instrument, an inexpensive mechanism
that will regularly screen as close to
100% of the citizen universe in order to
extract the support of perhaps a fraction
0f 1%, which can be quite decisive, as we
all know.

_N_0-W, when you're dealing with
Ut'l't'esr YOU are dealing with legal
monol30'ies which really can't lose
3;:ng- l was just reading the other day
Wate: peOple in Maryland conserved

, more than that, they conserved

water so adequately that now their rates
have to go up. There's nothing more
destructive to civic cooperation than that,
whether it’s in California or Maryland.
Because, however it may be explained,
the explanation, if there's any, is not
going to be communicated. The utilities,
as legal monopolies, shouldbe required
by state law, to permit a piggyback-free
communication system to consumers, so
that for all utilities, any time there is a
letter or bill to the customer, there is a slip
of paper in the envelope which says
"Consumer action is critical to the proper
functioning of your utilities. All those
who are interested in making a voluntary
contribution of, say, $5 per year to join
and become a part in the democratically
accessible consumer or action group
dealing with utilities, can send their
contributions to. . . And thenthisgroup
would have full-time organizers,
publicists, some experts, technicians,
etc., that would deal with these problems

 

Having local citizens. . .
organize their own local
public education pro-
grams would be one of
the most effective ways. .

 

at all levels of citizen action -— hearings,
legislative deliberations, court cases,
mobilizing neighborhoods, changing
patterns of accountability, or ownership,
and the like. This proposal is now being
considered by five state legislatures
geared toward conventional utilities.

Once this consumer checkoff, so to
speak, gets established, you will have
this inexpensive interface With the
universe of citizens in order to attract the
smaller number who can become a
political and technical force to do
something about it. Short of thatnwe
already have HEW-funded organizations
of citizen energy councils, reSIdential
energy consumers, in power serwces
areas, joining together to become more
effective. .

Then I note that EPA IS supposedto be
conducting education of the public on
water conservation and water recycling.
Having local citizens plan and organize
their own local public education
programs would be one of the most

9

effective ways. Apparently, this already
allocated money should be Spent. EPA
has about $200,000 or so looking for
demand.

Then, of course, the alliance factor —
forming alliances with other groups with
an interest in alternative technologies
could strengthen a kind of common
philosophy, even though it may be
applied in different areas of our economy.
This kind of network can be extended to
the national level. For example, I was
reading an article the other day where
the author claimed that billions of dollars
have been spent by fishermen looking for
a bass that exceeds the all-time record of
23 pounds; a bass which was caught in
Georgia back in 1933 or ’34. And there
are just hundreds of thousands of
fishermen looking for the bass; you know
they all know about it; it’s a great thing if
they could ever get a bigger bass. Well,
see, some of those people have to step
back and save the waters so the bass can
thrive, so they can beat the record. We
need generic fishermen, generic fisher—
men who go to the source of the problem
that's perhaps depriving them of winning
the record. If the fishermen would ever
get fully mobilized and support the small
groups that are already organized,
nothing could stand in their way. You
know that. Nothing could stand in the
way of determined fishermen. For two
reasons: one, there are huge numbers of
them, and they're very well-connected;
and, second, they can’t be accused of
being crusaders, because they’re Sports—
peOpIe. So, they're not doing it to save
people's lives; they're doing it for their
recreation, and politicians know that
really means business.

Then perhaps we can find a way to set
up expert action teams of engineers,
scientists, organizers, people who can
motivate citizens to begin developing
manuals that are simple to understand,
that citizens around the country can grab
hold of. Then there’s the need for clinics,
that is, quick 3- to 5-hour training clinics.
These roving teams of Specialists can go
all over the country and train people,
leave the manuals, and develop a
network, because these networks are
self-motivating, of course.

There’s also a need to institutionalize a
way to exchange this information
regular/y. This isn't just “here's what's
happened folks;” this is a lot more
dynamic, a change-oriented newsletter
or communication process. And not just
in the printed word, but we also have to
hit the television and radio on this; there
are cable systems now that have a lot of
time space; there are programming
opportunities for EPA and others to get
into this type of thing.

(Continued on page 12)

 

 




 

 

CLEAN WATER
N EWSFRONT

SEWAGE PLANT TREATS
CLEAN WATER

Infiltration of unused water from the
District of Columbia and suburban
Maryland into the District’s sewer
pipelines now totals 29 to 33% of the
treatment load at the Blue Plains sewage
treatment plant. The City estimates that
of the 278 million gallons of sewage
treated per day, 82-92 million gallons
originate from leaky reservoirs and the
water table. Major repairs to the 3,500—
mile city network would cost $59 million
(with the federal government paying
75%.) According to Edward Halley, of the
DC. water and sewer engineering and
construction division, ”...it’s a hard
thing to sell because there are so many
constraints on the city’s budget." The
cost of a sewage plant to handle the
excess 30 million gallons per day of the
city would be twice that of fixing the
pipes.

Washington Post, 5/ 1 1/78

CHANGING YOUR CAR OIL?

While big oil spills make headlines,
smallscale dumping of used crankcase oil
may contribute more pollutants in the
long run. However, a Maryland law
signed by Gov. Blair Lee on May 2 will
make such dumping illegal and will
provide for the recycling of the oil. From
July on, used oil will have to be dISposed
of at gas stations, to be reused after
filtering. A similar voluntary system has
been instituted in Northern Virginia to
encourage such recycling.

The amount of such oil finding its way
into the environment has increased in
recent years, since with the advent of
self—service stations, more motorists are
changing their own oil.

The Washington Star

LONG-RUN PAYBACK FOR
WATER CONSERVERS

Suburban Maryland residents have
responded so well to pleas for water
conservation that the Washington
Suburban Sanitary Commission (WSSC)
must now raise consumers' water billsto
offset falling revenues. Although
residents will pay higher bills now,
"there will be a payback in the long run,"
according to Robert McGarry of the
WSSC. Less demand ”allows us to get by
longer without building new facilities and
bond debt begins to dwindle off." The
WSSC instituted a new rate system on
January 1, 1978 and has promoted
"Camel Weeks" to encourage conserva—
tion. They had anticipated reducing the
rise in demand; instead, the demand
declined. The Commission now
estimates that total usage of a larger
population in 1980 will be only slightly
higher than usage in 1975. Despite all
conservation efforts though, fixed
operating costs will rise by 30% during
the next fiscal year.

Washington Post, 4/ 28/78

SLUDGE AND HEALTH PROBLEMS

Washington, DC. continues to be
plagued by the question of what to do
with the mounting piles of sludge
produced by the Blue Plains sewage
treatment plant. The District is presently
reassessing its plans to Open a
composting plant at Oxen Cave. The
problem with the plant is the potential
growth of a fungus called aspergillis
fumigatus, which can cause asthma and
associated wheezing, coughing, aches
and pains, especially in those already in
poor health. The site of the proposed
plant is only 400 feet from the DC. village
for the elderly.

Washington Post, 4/23/78

10

MARINE SANCTUARIES
PROTECTION

The law providing for the protection of
marine sanctuaries, a long-neglected
section of the Marine Protection
Research and Sanctuaries Act OH 972, is
finally showing "signs of life." The law
provides for sanctuaries offshore, in
estuaries, and in the Great Lakes. It has
suffered from lack of funds, despite the
fact that marine sanctuaries don’t need
monies for land acquisition. So far, only
two areas have been protected bythe Act:
Key Largo Coral Reef in Florida, and the
site off Cape Hatteras where the USS.
Monitor sank in 1882. However, the
Office of Ocean Management is now
reviewing 170 recommended and five
nominated sanctuaries.

A udubon Magazine, 5/8/78

COASTAL MANAGEMENT
PROGRAMS SLOWED

The program for the protection of the
nation’s 84,000 miles of coastline,
established under the Coastal Zone
Management Act of 1972, is proceeding
at a glacial pace. All 30 states with ocean
or Great Lakes shorelines are participa—
ting in the voluntary program, but only
the three Pacific Coast states, California.
Washington and Oregon, have federally
approved programs. 0f the rest, ten
states, including Maryland, have plans
nearing completion and should submit
them within a few months. Virginia and
Delaware are among the remaining
states whose plans may take a year or
more to complete. One state, Pennsyl—
vania, has been cut off from further
grants for "inadequate progress."

The lack of progress has been blamed
by some environmentalists on local
resistance and on the lack of state
authority to oversee local land-use
decisions.

New York Times, 4/ 25/ 78

 

 




 

 

 

 

(STANDARDS, from page 2)

Washington, DC. area, the Clean Water
Action Project found that home delivery
of bottled water costs from $3 to $4 per
5—gallon jar, or around $300 per year for
a family of four.) Ordinary drinking water
consumers need see no rate increase at
all if additional costs for safety were
passed onto the largest water users,
which would be a conservation measure

as well.

Extensive Experience
with Carbon Treatment

Finally, operators have been arguing
that the carbon filters themselves might
be found to cause some health problems
if not properly used. To meet any
questions that could arise on this score,
EPA cautiously provided a full two years
of pilot testing after the standards are
promulgated before any full-scale
application takes place. But in fact, many
carbon experts point out, extensive
experience with carbon treatment of
water has shown no practical problems.
Carbon filters have already been widely
and successfully used in European
drinking water treatment for several
years — the European operators, unlike
their recalcitrantAmerican counterparts,
initiated the safety step themselves. Over
forty communities in this country use
carbon to control taste and odor.
Activated carbon purification has long
been used by the sugar refining industry,
the food processing and bottled water
Industries, and by the alcoholic and soft
drink beverage industries. Ralph Nader
observed that ”one of the very few liquids
Americans drink today that has not been
carbon filtered is tap water!"

Increasing Support for Standards

While the organized industry lobbying
Pampaign spread enormous confusion
initially, support for the standards has
begun to gather momentum on its own.
For. example, the two DC. area utilities
which Clean Water Action Project has
prodded over the last two years to
DFOduce safer drinking water, have both
t53an stands favoring the new rules.

aShington Suburban Sanitary
COmmission’s Director Robert McGarrY
rTOted, in announcing his support, that
Dolls taken among WSSC's 1.2 million
SUburban Maryland customers have
ShOWn a resounding 77% support for
betterdrinking water safeguards, even if
:pending more money is involved. "We

Dend more than this to treat water that
Vivseh PIUt back in the streams to protect
0p , . he said, and dismissed the
WlJOSitionto the proposals by other

ater utilities as “a knee jerk response."

Cross the Potomac River, members of

 

 

 

{ff/i n‘ (”i-3'-“ <
.. v _ 'e (a
(gaff/l ', I

///.
«age:
.- f

D P"
o %

‘94".

a». /
his.

 

‘2‘ 4 w . 'v - ‘ , '
. .- .- ~.. - i , ~
' “I ‘ "‘4" ‘—-v' 22-. '. m s
.I J... an” ..
”(’3‘ -‘-—- 1:1:\ ‘

 

“ When you think of the fuss people make
about a little Chlorine in the water.”

 

. - , I

llmg

,J‘o‘

II," “'I* " ‘ i
I"? : ‘“ ".‘a iii/[TY
[I ' l l H

)

(C) Punch - ROTHCO

 

 

the Fairfax County Water Authority were
initially given what they later discovered
to be a misleading and incomplete
presentation by the Authority's
Engineering Director, Jay Corbliss.
Basing his arguments on information
supplied him by the water works lobby,
Corbliss recommended against FCWA's
supporting the standards. FCWA
members then sought an opinion from
Harvard sanitary chemist Dr. Carrell
Morris, the consultant FCWA hired last
year in response to revelations of
chloroform contamination. (The evidence
had initially been made public by Clean
Water Action Project, which won its
demand that FCWA seek recommenda-
tions from an expert consultant.) Dr.
Morris agreed that the trihalomethane
standards should be met. FCWA then
voted to join the ranks of supporters.
There are even early signs of defection
among die-hard industry Coalition
members. New Orleans’ new Mayor,
Ernest N. Morial, recently called upon

11

water utility Director Brehm to curtail his
active opposition to the standards.

Long-Term Fight Ahead

Should the standards survive the
industry onslaught, the fight will not be
over. Water works lobbies are expected to
try to take their case to Congress next,
asking for a repeal or postponement of
EPA’s authority to require elimination of
cancer-causing chemicals. And the long
struggle to actually bring safe drinking
waterto communities around the country
lies ahead in any event.

To succeed in that struggle, and make
drinking water safeguards secure from
the kind of confusion campaign the water
works lobby has been waging, it is clear
that the consumers of drinking water will
have to become organized. When the
united water drinkers ofAmerica begin to
demand better service at the local level
and better laws where they are needed,
they will see safer water and lower rates
at the same time. A

 




 

(NADER, from page 9)

I know you're going to hear injusta few
seconds Tom Jorling and if I can predict
what he may do, he's going to tell you
what EPA is doing as of January 1 977, by
way of a new look. But you know, the
more I watch well-intentioned skilled
people in government agencies operate,
the more I have to realizethey really can’t
do very much without a citizen backbone
out there, because they are surrounded
by extremely inquisitive and
knowledgeable Special interest groups
who have their offices here in place and
their networks throughout the country
and there's no way you are even going to
be able to stand up to these people.

Even in the area of public hearings for
pure drinking water, to get the
contaminants out of drinking water, the
EPA hearing officers are being berated all

over the country by water works people
who tell them that the standards are
unrealistic, they're not needed for health,
etc. Meanwhile, back at the faucet, in a
hundred million homes, people are quiet.
So above all, we have to find the
communication means to alarm people.

This concept thatgo vernment must not
unduly alarm people is absolutely non—
sense. Government has to alarm people,
and, given the seriousness of the
problem, they have to go a long way to
qualify for the adjective ”unduly." It’s
their function to alarm people. It's the
function of Doug Costle to go on ”Meet
the Press" and tell people there is a major
contamination problem in many of our
mass drinking water systems, and that
this is in part due to the sewage
mistreatment process, and this is an

less than $15

Zwick.

Name

Enclosed is a contribution to the Clean Water Action Project.

“£1 5. This covers an annual subscription to the newsletter.
__$20 or more. I would like to receive a copy of Water Wasteland, by David

Mail to: Clean Water Action Project, 1341 G St., NW, #200, Wash, DC. 20005

 

Address

 

 

Comments:

 

 

 

 

 

_¥

Washington, DC. 20005

 

Clean Water Action Project
1341 G Street, NW. #200

emergency and it is a crisis —— even
though it involves silent violence and
cumulative violence and impersonal
violence, and difficult epidemiological
connections. It clearly is substantiated in
statistical studies that more people are
going to get sick and more people are
going to die as a result if this is not
stopped. And he must make a final appeal
by saying: "My friends, it’s not going to
cost you anywhere near what it’s going to
cost you if you don't spend the money in a
wise fashion.” 80 somehow we have to
find a wayto communicate the urgency of
this in a far superior manner than we
have. One can think of some very basic
and clever metaphors to stimulate people
into action on sewage treatment, even if
it involves a substantial application of
humor."@

 

Clean Water Action News — Summer 1 978

Clean Water Action News is a bi-monthly newsletter of
the Clean Water Action Project. The Project welcomes
contributions of articles, reports, information, comments
and cartoons. We reserve the right to edit or reject copy.
Subscriptions are $15 for 6 issues.
Editor: David Zwick Contributors: John Monroe,
Gary Steinberg, Lance Ferderer, Sophie Ann Aoki

1341 G St., N.W., Wash., DC. 20005
(202) 638-1196

 

CORRECT/ON: The statement on page
11 of the Feb-Mar. issue of the
newsletter that farmers can dredge
and fill wetlands and streams was
printed in error. Such actions do
require a 404 dredge and fill permit.
The statement should have read: ”For
example, "normal” farming activies
such as construction and mainten—
ance of agricultural irrigation ditches,
farm or stock ponds, and maintenance
of drainage ditches are exempt from

 

 

404 dredging permit regulations.

 

 

Bulk Rate
US. Postage
P A l D
Permit No. 47092
Washington, DC.

 

 

 

 

 




IRONMENTAL DEFENSE FUND

M E‘M O R.A N D U M

Concerned Officials, Organizations and Individuals

FROM: ’William Y. Brown, Scientist, Wildlife Program
Michael J. Bean, Attorney, Wildlife Program

SUBJECT: ACID RAIN AND WILDLIFE CONSERVATION

DATE: August 10, 1981

 

Enclosed is an EDF paper entitled "Acid Rain and
Wildlife Conservation." The paper distills a mass of information
compiled jointly by the United States and Canada in preparation for
the negotiation of an international agreement on transboundary air
pollution. Although prepared for internal governmental use, these
data were recently made available to the public. Several additional
studies, including in particular work done on damage to forests,
are also included in the EDF paper.

The observations summarized in this paper are
sobering. Major areas of eastern North America, and perhaps the
west, are threatened with massive loss of life forms because of
acid rain. Although continuing, intensive research on the problem
is essential, failure to take immediate steps to curtail the responsible
pollutants, sulphur dioxide in particular, would demonstrate a
reckless attitude of our society toward living resources.

'We urge you to read the paper carefully and to do
what you can to solve the problem. Two fundamental steps are urgent:

e The Congress must not weaken the limits
on sulphur and nitrogen oxide pollution
currently required under the Clean Air
Act.

A new law should be enacted to substantially
reduce sulphur dioxide emissions in the
.eastern United States. The National Clean
Air Coalition is working on this bill and

it needs your support.

Please contact us if we can be of further assistance.

1525 18th Street, N.W. Washington, DC 20036 33202-8334484
OFFICES IN: NEW YORK. NY (NATIONAL Hquummas); WASHINGTON. DC; BERKELEY. CA; DENVER. CO

 




ﬁ

ACID RAIN AND WILDLIFE CONSERVATION

Prepared by Dr. William Y. Brown
Environmental Defense Fund

August 1981

Acid deposition is currently being observed in most of
eastern North America. Within this half-continent are
large areas in which the surface soil material and
bedrock types have little buffering capacity for acid
inputs and are identified as "potentially sensitive."
These areas include some of the most unique, unspoiled
and biologically productive environments in North
America. The potential is high for environmental
degradation from the deposition of acid and other
pollutants. (U.S.-Canada Work Group on Impact
Assessment of Transboundary Air Pollution, Interim
Report, January 15, 1981.)

THE CAUSES

 

Acid rain is caused principally by pollution of the air
with sulphur oxides and nitrogen oxides. Most sulphur oxides
come from the smoke of coal-fired power plants and ore
smelters. These power plants, plus car and truck exhaust, add
nitrogen oxides to the air. In atmospheric water, sulphuric
acid and nitric acid are formed. These acids fall with rain
and snow, then flow to streams and lakes. Precipitation in
large areas of North America is forty times more acid than
normal. Sometimes combined with acids formed on the ground by
gaseous and solid pollution, this acid rain is destroying
wildlife in poorly buffered areas over much of the eastern

United States and Canada.1’2

 




   
    
     
          

THE MECHANISMS

 

Acid rain destroys wildlife primarily in three ways.

First, acid rain directly inhibits reproduction in many

2,3,4

species. Second, acid rain can release toxic metals

(aluminum, manganese, iron) which kill animal and plant

life.5’6’7’8’9

  
    
 

Third, acid rain can discharge from

ecosystems other metals which are essential to many plants and
8,9

  
   
    
   
 

animals (calcium and magnesium).

THE DESTRUCTION 0F WILDLIFE
'Freshwater Lakes and Streams

Acid rain can dramatically alter the kinds and diversity of

     
     
   
   
   
   
  
  
       

animals and plants inhabiting lakes and streams. Many lakes
have been stripped of most native life altogether.

disruption 9f microorganisms

Field and laboratory studies in Scandinavia and North
America indicate that bacterial diversity decreases in
acidified water, accompanied by an increase in fungi, decrease
in community respiration, and possible inhibition of the
Nitrogen Cycle.2’10 .

degradation 2i plankton

Plankton communities in lakes are sensitive to rising acid
concentration. Generally one or two species of resistant algae
become abundant while other native species diminish and may be

11,12 13,14,15

lost.

Overall, species diversity drops. The




 

dominant algae in acid lakes, a group called dinoflagellates,
cannot readily be eaten by invertebrate animals in the
plankton.2’ll

invasion of Sphagnum moss

 

When lakes become acid, species of larger plants may be

replaced by Sphagnum mosses.' Moss invasion has been documented

in Sweden, Canada, and New York State.l6’l7’18’l9

§Eﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂ
moss forms extensive, dense beds. "In New York State, growth of
moss has been accompanied by proliferation of acid tolerant
algae, which has completely covered larger plants in some areas
and blocked the capture of sunlight.19

disappearance gj molluscs and crustaceans

 

Molluscs and crustaceans cannot live in acid waters.
Molluscs are generally restricted to water with pH greater than

5.8 to 6.0--less acidic than many lakes affected by acid

20,21,22 23

rain. Many crustaceans are similarly sensitive.
The need of these animals for calcium, and its depletion from
waters turned acid, may be responsible.2

failure 9f reproduction in amphibians

 

Many species of frogs, toads and salamanders breed in
temporary pools of meltwater formed in the spring. These pools
are often very acid. Embryonic mortality and deformity is
great in certain salamanders at pH less than 6.0. Yet the

average breeding pool for these same species is 32 times more

3,24

acid. Particularly sensitive species of amphibians

include:25

 




C; ‘3‘

Wood frog (Rana sylvatica)

 

American toad (Bufo americanus)

 

Northern spring peeper (Hyla crucifer)

 

Chorus frog (Pseudacris triseriata)

 

Yellow-spotted salamander (Ambystoma maculatum)

 

Blue-spotted salamander (Ambystoma laterale)

 

Tremblays salamander (Ambystoma tremblayi)

 

It is inevitable that amphibian species such as these will
suffer severe decreases and will become locally extinct.
Reduction in the biomass of amphibians may have far-reaching
effects in both aquatic and terrestrial ecosystems, because
salamanders and frogs are important prey for birds and

2 .

mammals.

fish loss

 

High acid concentration can inhibit larval development of

fish and promote aluminum and mercury concentrations to toxic

2,5,7,26-30

levels. Massive kills have been observed for

Atlantic salmon31 and brown trout32 in Europe and for
pumpkinseeds, during spring snow melt, in North America.33
However, less dramatic increases in mortality and drops in
reproduction are more significant over the long term,
eliminating many species from significant areas of their range:
° brook trout no longer can Survive in at least 180

acidified Adirondack ponds where they formerly
11ved.34

 




nearly half of the Aidrondack lakes may be
acidified and devoid of fish-~10 times more than
50 years ago.35

fish have disappeared from many lakes in Ontario,
Canada. Consider Lumsden Lake (one of 68 case
studies):33 »

19503: 8 species of fish present.

1960: last.report of yellow perch and
burbot.

1960—65: sport fishery fails (pH 6.8 in
September of 1961).

1967: last capture of lake trout.

1968: white sucker suddenly rare.

1969: last capture of trout perch, lake
herring and white sucker.

1970: only lake chub present.

1971: lake chub very rare (pH 4.4 in
August of 1971).

Thousands of lakes in Ontario and Quebec, many of
them prime sport fisheries for U.S. and Canadian
citizens, may be similarly lost if acid rain
continues at present rates.

In Nova Scotia, acidification threatens 30% of the

Atlantic salmon populations. Salmon reproduction

has ceased in nine rivers where the fish Once

lived. Canada may be following in the footsteps

of Norway, where acid rain has devastated salmoid

fish.36

Fish populations in lakes and rivers generally are

genetically distinct, being locally adapted. Elimination of a
population is therefore not reversible by restocking.
Furthermore, replacement stocks will not survive if acid rain
is not abated, nor will they survive with lower acid
concentrations if essential elements have been expelled from

the ecosystem by former high acidity.2

 




decline of birds and mammals

 

Birds and mammals which depend on acid—sensitive animals

and plants for food can be expected to decline when feeding

lakes and streams become acidified.

disappeared from acid lakes in Sweden.

Fish-eating birds have

14’37 In North

America, the Common Loon has declined in the Adirondacks over

the last 15 years, paralleling the decline in fish populations

as well as increased human disturbance.

38’39 The following

birds and mammals are considered particularly susceptible to

acid rain in North America and should be monitored closely:

Birds and Mammals Susceptible to Acid Rain 25

 

Common Loon
(Gavia immer)

 

Common merganser
(Mergus merganser)

Hooded merganser
(Mergus cucullatus)

Red-breasted merganser
(Mergus serrator)

 

Great blue heron
(Ardea herodias)

Belted kingfisher
(Megaoeryle alcyon)

 

Common goldeneye
(Bucephalus clangula)

 

Ring-necked duck
(Aythya collaris)

 

Black Duck
(Anas rubripes)

 

Green-winged teal
(Anas carolinensis)

Mallard ‘
(Anas platyrhynchos)

 

Northern pintail
(Anas acuta)

American widgeon
(Anas americana)

 

American mink
(Mustela vison)

 

River otter
(Lutra canadensis)

 

Muskrat
(0ndatra zibethicus)

 

 




Forests

Beech and spruce forests in West Germany provide the only
long-term information concerning effects of acid rain on
forests.8. In these forests, already acidic rain is made two
to four times more acid by sulphur dioxide and particulates.
The acid is releasing aluminum salts in the soil, killing
rootlets. The beech forest is considered to be doomed and the
spruce forest unlikely to survive.

These studied West German forests are grown on sensitive,
unbuffered soil. No industry is in the forest area, although
the Essen-Dusseldorf Industrial Area lies 130-150 km to the
‘west. No study has demonstrated such damage to forests in
North America. However, many forest ecosystems should be
considered at risk and monitored carefully. These include such

unique ecosystems as the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness

of Northern Minnesota,40 the Great Smoky Mountains National
41

Park in Tennessee and North Carolina, the Adirondack

Mountains in New York,42 and the Kejimkujik National Park in

Nova Scotia.2

THE SOLUTION TO THE PROBLEM
Acid rain will abate only with reduction in the amount of
sulphur and nitrogen oxides put into the air by coal-fired
power plants, smelters, refineries, cars, trucks, and other

sources. A major positive and feasible step would be reduction

 




in the amount of sulphur dioxide emissions by power plants.

The National Commission on Air Quality has estimated that a
seven million ton reduction in annual sulphur dioxide emissions
by eastern utilities can be achieved by 1990 with an average
increase of leSs than two percent in eastern utility bills.

The National Clean Air Coalition is investigating the
additional cost of a reduction totaling ten millions tons.
Because a reduction of seven to ten million tons of sulphur
dioxide constitutes some 40% to 57% of total emissions in the
East, the abatement of acid rain would be substantial.

To stop the destruction of wildlife by acid rain, concerned
'citizens, organizations, government agencies and elected
officals should:

0 support those existing limitations on emissions of
sulphur and nitrogen oxides which have been set under
the Clean Air Act. Many efforts are now underway to
weaken the Clean Air Act this autumn, and your help is
needed to keep the law intact.
support the efforts of the National Clean Air Coalition

to have new legal authority enacted to substantially
reduce sulphur dioxide emissions by 1990.

REFERENCES

 

l. Liken, G.E., R.F. Wright, J.N. Galloway, and T.J. Butler.
1979. Sci. Amer. 241:43-51.

2. U.S.-Canada Work Group on Impact Assessment of
Transboundary Air pollution, Interim Report, January 15,
1981. [This document is the principal source of
information referenced here in this paper.]

 




Pough, F.H., and R.E. Wilson. 1977. Water Air Soil
Pollution 7:307-316.

Fromm, P.0. 1980. Environ. Biol. Fishes 5:79—93.

Cronan, 0.3., and C.L. Schofield. 1979. Science
204:304-306.

Muniz, I.P., and H. Leivestad. 1980. In D. Drablos and
A. Tollan (eds.), Ecol. Impact of Acid Precip., Proc. Int.
Conf., Sandefjord, Norway, March 11—14, 1980. pp. 84-92
and 320-321. -

Schofield, C.L., and J. Trojnar. 1979. In T. Toribara,
M. Miller, and P. Morrow (eds.), Polluted Rain, Plenium
Press, N.Y. pp. 347-366.

Tomlinson, C.H. 1981. Acid Rain and the Forest--The
Effect of Aluminum and the German Experience. Research
Memorandum Project No. 74-7124-13. DDMTAR Research
Center. Senneville, Quebec.

Gaspar, 0.0. 1981. Acid Rain and Snow, and Trout in West
Virginia. w. Va. Dept. of Natural Res. Unpublished.

Traaen, T.S. 1980. IQ_Drablos and Tollan, op. cit.,
pp. 340-341.

Dickson, W., E. Hornstrom, C. Elkstrom, and B. Almer.
1975. Info. from Soetvattens-Laboratorie, Drottningholm,
Sweden, Paper No. 7, 140 pp.

Yan, N.D.. 1979. Water Air Soil Pollution 11:43-55.

Kwiatkowski, R.E., and 0.0. Roff. 1976. Can. J. Bot.
54:2545—2551.

Almer, 8., w. Dickson, C. Ekstrom, and E. Hornstrom.

1978. In 3.0. Nriagu (ed.), Sulfur in the Environment:
Part II Ecological Impacts, John Wiley and Sons, New York,
pp. 271-312.

Leivestad, H., G. Hendrey, I.P. Muniz, and E. Snekvik.
1976. In F.H. Braekke (ed.), Impact of Acid Precip. on
For. and Freshw. Ecosystems in Norway, SNSF-Project,
Norway, IR 6/76, pp. 87-111. '

 




Grahn, 0. 1976. Proc. First Intl. Symp. Acid Precip. and
the Forest Ecosys., pp. 519-530. USDA Forest Serv. Gen.
Tech. Rep. NE-23.

Hendrey, G.R., K. Baalsrud, T.S. Traaen, M. Laake, and G.
Raddum. 1976. Ambio 5:224-227.

Wile. Unpublished. Cited in Reference 2 of this paper, at
3-45.

 

. Hendrey, G.R., and F.A. Vertucci. 1980. in Drablos and
Tollan, op. cit., pp. 314-315.

Raddum, 6.6. 1980. ‘ln Drablos and Tollan, op. cit.,
pp. 330-331. °

Okland, K.A. 1980. SNSF-Project IR 52/80, 1432 Aas-NLH,
Norway, 70 p.

Wiederholm, T., and L. Eriksson. 1977. Oikos 29:261-267.

Grahn, 0., H. Hultberg, and L. Landner. 1974. Ambio
3:93-94.

Pough, F.H. 1976. Science 192:68-70.

Clark and Fisher (in prep.). Cited in Reference 2 of this
paper, at 3-5-.

 

Beamish, R.J., and H.H. Harvey. 1972. J. Fish. Res. Board
Can. 29:1131-1143.

Beamish, R.J. 1976. Water Air Soil Pollut. 6:501-514.

Schindler, D.w., R.H. Hesslein, R. Wagemann, and W.S.
Broecker. 1980. Can. J. Fish. Aquat. Sci. 37:373-377.

Hikanson. Cited in Reference 2 of this paper, at 3-55.

Suns, K., C. Curry, and D. Russell. 1980. Environ. Can.
Tech. Rep. LTS 80-1.

Jensen, K.W., and E. Snekvik. 1972. Ambio: 223-225.
Leivestad, H., and I.P. Muniz. 1976. Nature 359:391-392.
Harvey, H.H. 1979. Proc. Fifth Ann. Aquatic Toxicity

Workshop, Hamilton, Ontario, Nov. 7-9, 1978. Fish. Mar.
Serv. Tech. Rep. 862:115-128.

 




Pfeiffer, M., and P. Festa. 1980. NYSDEC Publication.
Fw-P168 (10/80), 58. p.

Schofield, C.L. 1976. Ambio 5(5-6):228-230.

Watt, w.o. 1980. Unpublished data from the Dept. Fish and
Oceans, Halifax, N.S., Canada.

Nillsson, 5.0., and I.N. Nillsson. 1978. 0ikos 31:214-221.

. McIntyre, J.w., and Manas. 1979. In S.A. Sutcliffe (ed.),

40.

41.

42.

The Common Loon, Proc. Second NA Coﬁ?. on Common Loon Res.,
Nat. Audubon Soc., N.Y.

Trivelpiece, 5., A. Brown, R. Hicks, R. Fekete, and 3.3.
Volkman. 1979. Proc. N. Amer. Conf. on the Common Loon.
pp. 45-55, Syracuse, N.Y. 162 p.

Glass, G.E., and 0.L. Loucks (eds.). 1980. ERL-Duluth,
EPA-600/3—80-044, May 1980. 187 p.

Herman, R., and J. Baron. 1980. in Drablos and Tollan,
op. cit., pp. 218-219.

Baker, J.P., and C.L. Schofield. 1980. in Drablos and
Tollan, op. cit., pp. 292-293.

 




Testimony of the Honorable Paul 6. Rogers
Member, Board of Directors, Foundation for Biomedical Research
NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL
Commission on Life Sciences/Institute of Medicine

Committee on the Use of Laboratory Animals in
Biomedical and Behavioral Research

February 10, 1986

I AM PAUL ROGERS AND I AM HERE TODAY REPRESENTING THE FOUNDATION
FOR BIOMEDICAL RESEARCH WHICH SUPPORTS ADHERENCE TO THE HIGHEST

: STANDARDS FOR THE CARE AND TREATMENT OF LABORATORY ANIMALS.

IT IS AN HONOR TO HAVE THE OPPORTUNITY TO PRESENT TO THE NATIONAL
-ACADEMY OF SCIENCES COMMITTEE ON THE USE OF LABORATORY ANIMALS IN
BIOMEDICAL AND BEHAVIORAL RESEARCH. THE WORK OF THE COMMITTEE IS
EXTREMELY IMPORTANT TO THE BIOMEDICAL RESEARCH COMMUNITY AND MORE SO

TO THE AMERICAN PUBLIC.

THE USE OF ANIMALS IN BIOMEDICAL RESEARCH IS A CRITICALLY
IMPORTANT ASPECT OF SCIENTIFIC INVESTIGATION INTO BASIC PHYSIOLOGY AND
BIOLOGY. IT IS ESSENTIAL TO THE RESEARCH THAT WILL RESULT IN NEW WAYS
TO TREAT, CURE AND PREVENT THE DISEASES THAT CAUSE UNTIMELY DEATHS AND

UNTOLD HUMAN MISERY.

OVER THE PAST SEVERAL YEARS, THE USE OF ANIMALS HAS BEEN CALLED
INTO QUESTION BY A GROUP THAT IS COLLECTIVELY KNOWN AS THE ANIMAL

RIGHTS MOVEMENT. I AM SURE THIS COMMITTEE WILL RECOGNIZE DURING THE

COURSE OF ITS STUDY THAT THE ANIMAL RIGHTS MOVEMENT IS NOT A A

HOMOGENEOUS GROUP BUT RATHER COVERS A VAST SPECTRUM OF PHILOSOPHY ~
FROM THOSE WHO RECOGNIZE THE NEED FOR ANIMAL RESEARCH

 




 

 

 

AND WANT TO INSURE THAT THE RESEARCH IS RESPONSIBLE AND HUMANE TO
THOSE WHO WOULD SUGGEST THAT HUMANS BE USED INSTEAD OF ANIMALS FOR
EXPERIMENTAL PURPOSES.

THIS IS NOT THE FIRST TIME IN HISTORY THAT SUCH A-MOVEMENT HAS
ARISEN, AND I WILL NOT SPECULATE HERE AS TO WHAT CONFLUENCE OF SOCIAL,
_HISTORICAL AND PSYCHOLOGICAL FACTORS MIGHT HAVE SPARKED THE RESURGENCE
OF ANTI-VIVISECTIONIST SENTIMENT.

EACH TIME OUR SOCIETY CONSIDERS THIS ISSUE, HOWEVER, THE SAME
THEMES RECUR. WHY IS IT NECESSARY TO USE ANIMALS IN RESEARCH? HOW
MUCH RESEARCH IS BEING CONDUCTED MERELY TO SATISFY-"IDLE CURIOSITY"?
IS IT MORAL THAT ANIMALS SHOULD SERVE AS OUR SURROGATES IN BIOMEDICAL
RESEARCH AND TESTING?

THESE ARE LEGITIMATE QUESTIONS THAT SOCIETY SHOULD EXAMINE.
THE FOUNDATION FOR BIOMEDICAL RESEARCH WAS FORMED FOR THE PURPOSE

OF FILLING A GAP IN INFORMATION BETWEEN THE RESEARCH COMMUNITY AND THE
CITIZENS WHOSE TAXES SUPPORT A SIGNIFICANT PROPORTION OF THE U.S.

 

BIOMEDICAL RESEARCH PROGRAM.




'3lV830 3H1 S3AI3383d N3130 31380d 3H1 MOH SI SIHl lVHl 3A3I338‘
I ‘A331VN01803N0 'AllNﬂNNOD 3VDIG3NOI8 3H1 GNV S31VO0AOV SLHBIH

3VNINV N33Mi38 lS3lN03 33V‘3NV1'83NNIM V 1008V BNIXTVL iON 38V 3M

'NOIiVHIIS WDS‘083Z
V lON SI SIHl iVHl 8V333 lI 3XVN 01 SI “ 383H A3800N80N3 3108181N00
331M 180333 S.33llINN03 3H1 UNV " 00 NVD 3M XNIHl I iVHM

'iN3W098V 3H1 30 S301S
H108 N0 331M 0000 30 3SOHl N33Mi38 lN3N3388VSIG 3VDIHdOSOTIHd 3H1
3A3OS38 A3303 H3A3 331M 3M lVHl 18000 I 'A33V31Hl3 0NV A33V31311N3IDS

H108 ‘X33dW00 38V NOIlS300 H38V3S38 IVWINV 3H1 30 SiD3dSV ANVN

'3ﬂSSI 3811N3 3H1 N0 388003310 31380d
30 33A33 3H1 3SIV8 d33H 331M lI ‘iNViHOdNI 380W 'NHOM 800 d33H 331M

83H1V9 Oi 0308VHO N338 SVH 33llINW03 SIHl N011VN803NI 30 3dAl 3H1

'l33N 01 SidN3liV H38V3S38 3V3103N018
iVHi 8033N NVWHH 3H1 30 lHBI3S3Hl NI Sd0083 SiHDIH WVNINV 30 SN830N03

3H1 3NINVX3 01 "'3ﬂSSI 3H1 N0 NOINIdO 03W803NI NV d033A30 Oi 31380d

3H1 M033V 331M lVHl SIDVA 301A088 01 SI NOISSIN SuNOIlVGNHOJ 3H1

-S-

 




°A1LD3HIG

150w 13333V 0100M lI 31d03d 3H1 30 S3AI1 3H1 803 A3110d Hl1V3H

30 SNOIiVDI1dWI 3H1 GNVISHBGNH I ONV S300V31103 AN lVHl 1VIlN3SS3
SVM ll 'AHINROD SIHl NI SNIAG GNV 111 3H1 30 1H011d 3H1 01 03N3lSI1
GNV 0310015 I ‘lN3NNOHIAN3 3H1 GNV Hl1V3H N0 33llINN0080$ 3500H

3H1 30 dIHSNVNHIVHO AN NI ONV ISS3H§N03 NI SHV3A t2 AN DNIHHG

'H38V3S3H NI S311 9N183330$ 30 331138 GNV 3311 803 3d0H A1N0

3SOHM 31d03d ;' SlN3IlVd Oi DNIHH333H NV I 'ASH3AOHLN03 SIHl NI 3801
01 lSON 3H1 SVH lVHl A3N3ﬂlIlSN03 3H1 803 3SV3 3H1 lN3S3Hd 01 03SIVH

S3010A M33 38V 3N3Hl ‘31VH38 NMO 811 N0 XV3dS NVD AlINnNNOD HDHV3S3H

3H1 GNV ‘S1VNINV 303 S31VOOAOV 30 39V180HS ON SI 3H3Hi 31IHM 108

'SNVNHH 01 dIHSNOIlV13H HI3Hl
803 GHV93H 300 11V HIIM ‘A13NVNOH S1VNINV 1V3Hi Oi ALI1IBISNOdS3H
3H1 3AVH 3M '03133dS3H 38 lSﬂN lI EA11V0$V3 0308V93H 38

iON lSﬂN 11 '3311 1VWINV 30 301VA 3H1 SSINSIG Oi 3SOdOHd l.N00 I

'80 M01103 111M lVHl SNOIIVH3N39
3Hi 0i GNV 0180M 3H1 GNHOUV 31d03d 01 $1133N38 $00N80N3 803 1VIlN310d
3H1 iSNIVBV NOIlVDIiSBANI 31311N3IDS NI S1VNINV 30 H38NON 03lIWI1 V

30 330 3H1 0N1H013M 38V 3M iVHl 13V3 3H1 30 lHBIS 3301 01 0N3l 3M

 




'SNVOIHHNV
30 83111} DNIGV31 3H1 SNIVWEH iI ‘TWVJ Oi N8938 BAVH HSVBSIG lHVBH
NOHJ.SBLVH ALIWViHON 3H1 HSHOHLTV 'EAWOS Oi SHIHHLSAN TVOIGEW 30

ONE GM 11118 SI 383Hi ‘SlVG Oi SHDHOHHLXV388 TVDIGHN 3H1 17V 803

'HDHVBSEH WVNINV N088

GBAIHBG 383M HDIHM 80 11V ‘ ANVN Oi 3dOH BGIAOHd Oi ERNILNOD lNHNiVBHL
HHDNVD 80$ ATLH JO AHEAOJSIG GNV NOIlDEPHH lNVTdSNVHl lNBAHHd

Oi NIHOdSOTDAD JO NOIiDﬂGOHiNI 3H1 SV HDHS SHBHOHHLXV388 HOPVN lNHDBH
'EHHWIVj iHVBH ONV jﬂOHiS GBlNBAEHd SVH HDIHM HJHVESHH HOJ BNIGNHJ
GEZIHOHLHV 3M '°'A839888 ONV ENIDIGEW HVTHDSVAOIGHVO NI SBDNVAGV

HOPVN SSENiIM Oi GBBBWIAIHd SVM I ‘3N1183NVS 3Hi 1V 'ASHHAOHLNOD

3H1 BNIGNHOBHHS'SNOILONE HBIH 3H1 30 BHVMV ATNEBX 3NV338 GNV 30831

HDEVBSBH WVNINV 3H1 NO SBNIHVHH GTBH I ‘SSHHBNOD NI SVM I BWIHM

'GBLDIdeV ATHVWINIS 38 8180M OHM SBEHLO SSHTiNDOD 3H1
808 3dOH 8383830 HDEVBSEH GHHNILNOD 108 'NBHi 801 3NIi NI ONﬂOj 38 Oi
SAVMTV iON SVM HBMSNV 3H1 'BAIlVIWWVd V ‘3883 V ‘iNBNiVHHi V 383MSNV

NV GNIJ 8180M HDHVBSBH iVHl 3dOH "'3dOH SVM GVH 31d03d BSBHL 11V

'SNVDIHBNV
80 SNOIWWIN 30 SHAIW 3H1 Ol"‘ SWVNINV HiIM GBLODONOD ll 10 HORN
'- HDHVBSBH TVDIGBNOI8 30 BDNVAHTBH 3Hl BLVIDEHddV iON GNV NOIiVHBdSBG

GNV HSIHSNV 30 SiNﬂOQDV ESOHl 11V EVBH Oi 318ISSOdNI SVM lI

 




OUR EXPECTATIONS ON PROGRESS AGAINST CANCER MORE CLOSELY MATCH

, THE REALITY OF THIS COMPLEX GROUP OF DISEASES. BUT THE IMMINENCE OF

BETTER DIAGNOSTIC METHODS AND TREATMENTS ARE CAUSE FOR HOPE.

WE HAVE YET TO DECIPHER THE RIDDLE OF BIRTH DEFECTS, OF

ARTHRITIS, OF NEW THREATS SUCH AS ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE AND AIDS.

WE WILL MAINTAIN STEADY PROGRESS IF RESEARCH CONTINUES... IF

RESEARCH CAN USE EVERY TECHNIQUE AT ITS DISPOSAL, TO FIND THE ANSWERS:

CERTAINLY, ANIMALS ARE NOT THE ONLY RESEARCH MODELS AVAILABLE.
SCIENTISTS REGULARLY EMPLOY NEW TECHNOLOGIES INVOLVING LIVING SYSTEMS,
SUCH AS CELL AND TISSUE CULTURE. COMPUTER AND MATHEMATICAL MODELING
ARE INVALUABLE TO SOME TYPES OF INVESTIGATION. AND WE TEND TO FORGET
THE ENORMOUS AMOUNT OF RESEARCH CONDUCTED WITH HUMANS, IN
EPIDEMIOLOGICAL STUDIES AND CLINICAL INVESTIGATIONS.‘

THE FACT REMAINS, HOWEVER, THAT MANY AREAS OF RESEARCH REQUIRE AN
INTACT, LIVING SYSTEM... ONE THAT BREATHES, DIGESTS AND METABOLIZES.
IT IS ETHICALLY UNTHINKABLE TO USE HUMAN BEINGS AS THE FIRST SUBJECTS
FOR INVASIVE EXPERIMENTS SUCH AS TRANSPLANTING HEALTHY PANCREATIC
CELLS INTO THE DIABETIC PANCREAS. YET THIS RESEARCH MAY WELL POINT

THE WAY TOWARD A CURE FOR DIABETES.

 




DESPITE THE COMPLEXITY OF THE RESEARCH PROCESS AND THE ROLE OF
LABORATORY ANIMALS IN IT, THE AMERICAN PEOPLE SHOW A REMARKABLE GRASP

OF ITS IMPORTANCE TO HUMANS.
A RECENT NATIONAL SURVEY COMMISSIONED BY THE FOUNDATION FOR

BIOMEDICAL RESEARCH INDICATES THEIR SUPPORT:

- 77% OF THE AMERICAN PUBLIC ENDORSES THE USE OF ANIMALS IN
PLACE OF HUMANS FOR THE STUDY OF BIOLOGICAL FUNCTIONS AND

DISEASES.

70% AGREE THAT SOME RESEARCH WITH ANIMALS IS NECESSARY

EVEN WHEN IT WILL NOT LEAD DIRECTLY TO A TREATMENT OR

A CURE OF A SPECIFIC DISEASE.

A MAJORITY SUPPORTS THE USE OF ANIMALS IN SAFETY TESTING
OF PRESCRIPTION AND OVER-THE COUNTER DRUGS, OF MEDICAL
AND SURGICAL DEVICES, OF INSECTICIDES AND PESTICIDES,

OF SKIN CARE PRODUCTS AND COSMETICS.

 




WHAT THE PUBLIC DOES NOT APPEAR TO UNDERSTAND ARE SOME OF THE

INTRICACIES OF THE ANIMAL RESEARCH ISSUE.

- .A MAJORITY ARE UNAWARE THAT THERE ARE ANY LAWS,
REGULATIONS OR GUIDELINES GOVERNING THE USE OF ANIMALS

IN RESEARCH.’

MOST PEOPLE DO NOT KNOW THAT ANIMALS ARE USED IN THE
STUDY OF CERTAIN DISEASES SUCH AS ALZHEIMER'S,

MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS AND MENTAL ILLNESS.

A MAJORITY COULD NOT VENTURE AN OPINION AS TO

WHETHER THE USE OF ANIMALS IN RESEARCH HAD INCREASED
OR DECREASED IN RECENT YEARS. AS A MATTER OF FACT,
BETWEEN 1968 AND 1978, A NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES

STUDY SHOWED A DECREASE OF 40% IN ANIMAL USE.

THE FOUNDATION FOR BIOMEDICAL RESEARCH DOES NOT BELIEVE THAT

RESEARCH POLICY SHOULD BE DICTATED BY PUBLIC OPINION POLLS.

 




 

‘noA XNVHI

   
  
   
    
 
  
  
  
  
 

‘ 'AIHIDOS BNIHVD GNV HIVNOISSVdNOO ‘GHZIIIAID

V 30 SBHIVA 3H1 HlIM lNVNOSNOD SI lVHl HHNNVN V NI OHIDHGNOO
9N138 SI GNV 38 NVD ll lVHl GNV ‘AHVSSBJHN SI HDHVHSBH TVNINV
lVHl BGHTDNOD Oi ERNIINOD 111M 31d03d 3H1 iVHl lNBGIjNOD 1333 BM

‘BRSSI SIHi N0 NOIlVNHOdNI HidBG'NI BHON SBAIBQBH DIISHd 3H1 SV

'31d03d NVDIHBNV 3H1 Oi NOIlVlNBSBHd 803 HDHVBSHH IVNINV

NO SIDVJ UBHIVB Oi NOIlVNINHBiHG 811 N0 HEIIINWOD SIHi GHVTddV 3M

'SNIVID HSOHl EDNVAOV SIVHGIAIGNI
ANVN MOH HEIIVN 0N “ BSOdHnd 0009 ON BOA 03S“ BHV SWVNINV JO SHBBNHN
EIVNIGHONI lVHl HO ‘AHVSSEDENNH SI SWVNINV HiIM.HDHV3338 lVHl SNIVID

GBlHOddﬂSNﬂ JO SISV8 3H1 NO GBNINHBIHO 38 ll GWHOHS HEHIIBN

 




A LTERNATI VE s - 5
IN *

MEDICAL
EDUCATION

Non-Animal Methods

Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine
PO Box 6322, Washington, D. C. 20015
. 202- 483-1312 7

 




 

 

 

ALTERNATIVES IN MEDICAL EDUCATION

The technology explosion has hit medical education. Computer models,
Videotapes, interactive videos, and simulator models are now widely
available. Many of these can be helpful adjuncts in medical education. In
addition, many are being used to replace animal laboratory exercises in
physiology, pharmacology and other disciplines. This occurs at a time when
the use of animals is more controversial and more expensive than in the past.
A recent survey (1) shows that 53 percent of US. medical schools use animal
laboratories in their regular physiology curriculum. In pharmacology this
figure is 25 percent, and in surgery, 19 percent. Those schools which are
shifting away from these exercises need information on new teaching
materials. For those which retain animal exercises, it is essential to have an
alternate activity for those students who decline to participate for ethical
or religious reasons, a policy encouraged by the American Medical Student
Association (2).

It should be said that a great many doctors have been well-
trained without the use of computers, Videos, or, for that matter, animal
laboratories. Lectures, readings, and supervised clinical experience remain
the essentials of medical education. There is no reason to await the perfect
technical product in order to make curriculum changes.

We hope to keep this booklet as up—to-date as possible. Please keep us in—
formed of new products as well as your experiences with those mentioned
here, so that future editions can be updated.

These lists are not intended to be exhaustive, nor is mention here to be
construed as an endorsement. Prices and availability are subject to change.

References:

l. Barnard, N.D.; Stolz, ].; Baron, L. Use of and alternatives to animals in laboratory courses
at US. medical schools, Journal of Medical Education, 63(9):720-22, 1988.

2. American Medical Student Association, Preamble, purposes and principles, Heston, VA,
p. 144, 1986.

 




 

 

 

STATE-OF-THE-ABT SIMULATORS

 

 

 

 

 

 

Nasco’s cricothyrotomy simulator has incisable vinyl skin covering underly-
ing polyethylene cartilage structures, all of which are replaceable.

HARVEY

Medical Training and Simulation Laboratory, 1430 NW. 11th Ave, Miami,
FL 33136, attn: Joan Mayer, 305-547—6491.

Harvey is an amazing life-size cardiology simulator manikin complete with
carotid, brachial, radial and femoral pulses, venous pulsations, precordial
movements, respiration, blood pressure and auscultation in the four classic
acoustic areas flawlessly reproduced. Adjunctive EKG’S, Xrays, and other
data are also supplied.

SIMULATORS FOR MANUAL SKILLS

The following companies have extensive catalogues of life-
like instructional models for use in learning manual skills. Simulators allow
for unlimited repetition with anatomically correct models. These companies
manufacture and/0r distribute simulator arms with simulated subcutaneous
veins and arteries connected to ” blood " reservoirs for venipuncture and
arterial sampling, models for adult and pediatric laryngoscopy, intubation,
cardiac catheterization, colonoscopy, practice suturing, and many other uses.

2

 

 




* Nasco, 901 Janesville Ave., Ft. Atkinson, WI 53538, 800-558-
9595. Specify Health Care Educational Materials catalogue.

* Medical Plastics, PO. Box 38, Gatesville, TX 76528, 800-433—
5539, TX: 817-865-7221.

* Armstrong Industries, 3660 Commercial Ave., PO. Box 7, Northbrook,
IL 60065, 800-323-4220, IL: 312-272-5577.

* The Anatomical Products Catalog, Anatomical Chart Co., 7124 N. Clark
St., Chicago, IL 60626, 800-621-7500, IL: 312-764-7171.

* Simulaids, Inc., P.O. Box 807, Dixon Ave., Woodstock, NY. 12498,
800-431-4310, NY: 800-626-6676.

KNOT — TYING BOARDS

* Ethicon, Inc. (Rte. 22, Somerville, NJ 08876, 800-526-3927) offers boards
for tying and suturing.

The Zikria Training Board (Advanced Surgical Technologies, PO. Box 433,
Norwood, NJ 07648-0433, 201-768-6010) is an expanded product for prac-
tice suturing and surgical knot-tying, from the inventor of Ethicon’s suture
practice board.

 

T!!! ﬂﬁﬂﬁ Sﬁﬁﬁiﬁﬂl
Mimi” 30518

NY“? «guano

 

 

 

 

 

The Zikria Training Board allows practice suturing and knot-tying with
simulated double-walled intestine, skin, vascular tissue, and tendon, and has
hooks for obstructed and unobstructed knot-tying and a tensron-tyrng dewce.

3

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

CLINICAL PROBLEM-SOLVING PACKAGES

PATIENT-ORIENTED PROBLEM-SOLVING (POPS)
Ms. Judy Kepler, The Upjohn Co., 9435-88-0, 7000 Portage Rd, Kalamazoo,
MI 49001, 800-253-8600.

This unusual and engaging teaching method was developed by Parker A.
Small, Jr, MD. of the University of Florida and is available free of charge
from the Upjohn company. The program allows students to learn lessons
by solving clinical problems. It is inexpensive, enjoyable, and clinically
relevant.

DISCUSSION-ORIENTED CLINICAL SCENARIOS (DOCS)
PCRM, PO. Box 6322, Washington, DC. 20015, 202-483-1312.

Discussion—Oriented Clinical Scenarios was developed by Christie Sporer
and Jerry Naradzay, with the advice of Parker A. Small, Jr, M.D., inventor
of the popular Patient-Oriented Problem Solving system. It adapts a POPS-
like method to physiology and pharmacology instruction. Medical students
work collaboratively to solve realistic clinical problems: a young man in-
j ured in a car accident, a woman brought to the emergency room with par-
tially blocked carotid arteries, a soldier wounded in the chest, two young
men nearly drowned in a boating accident, a man with anxiety and
hypertension, and a hospital patient suffering a heart attack. The program
scenarios are interesting and clinically relevant. Studies testing the efficacy
of the DOCS system are underway as this booklet goes to press.




VIDEOTAPES AND SLIDES

STUDY OF CARDIOTONIC DRUGS
State Univ. of New York Health Science Center, Media Distribution Coor—
dinator, Div. of Educational Communications, 766 Irving Ave., Syracuse,
NY 13210, 315-473-4860. 47 min., VHS

A carefully made videotape, showing physiological and pharmacologic
phenomena on a dog heart-lung preparation. The experimental set—up and
preparation of the dog are described in detail. There is a clear discussion
of factors affecting cardiac output. Also discussed are pentobarbitol-induced
heart failure, the differences between left and right heart failure, and the
effects of epinephrine, ouabain, and digitalis. Diagrams are very clear. A
historical perspective and frequent references to basic principles help make
this tape clear and educational. Differences between the experimental set-
up and intact animals and humans are discussed.

THE REGULATION AND CONTROL OF THE HEART, PARTS I AND
11 (SLIDES WITH AUDIOCASSETTES)

National Audiovisual Center, Customer Services Section PY, 8700 Edgeworth
Drive, Capitol Heights, MD 20743, 301—763-1896. 55 min., $60.00

This clear and well-organized presentation covers cardiac output,
parasympathetic and sympathetic effects, F rank-Starling, autoregulation,
reflexes, and contractility with helpful graphics. Allows viewers to assess
their understanding of concepts after each section. The effects of exogenous
drugs are not covered. A manual with script and study questions accom-
panies the tape and slides. This product can be found in many medical
libraries but is currently not in print at the manufacturer. Viewers should
have some prior knowledge of cardiac physiology and hemodynamics.

PHYSIOLOGICAL CONTROL OF CARDIAC OUTPUT AND VENOUS
RETURN (SLIDES WITH AUDIOCASSETTES)

National Audiovisual Center,.Customer Services Section FY, 8700 Edgeworth
Drive, Capitol Heights, MD 20743, 301—763—1896. 59 min., $70.00

This is a well-made review of cardiac physiology. Factors affecting car-
diac output are discussed. Sympathetic and parasympathetic effects, ion ef-
fects, and factors affecting end—diastolic and end-systolic volumes are clearly
presented. Also covered are autoregulation, LaPlace equations, and other
physical factors. Venous return is discussed in terms of capacitance and blood
volume. Slides contain clear graphics and offer immediate assessment of
knowledge. The effects of exogenous drugs or nerve cutting are not discussed.

 

 

 




 

 

BIOVIDEOGRAPHS
Techni-Life Sciences, PO. Box 12, Pequannock, NJ, 07440, 201-
694-0500.

This is an intriguing technology consisting of experiments displayed on
Videotape, with the optional addition of a tracing device which produces
graphic charts synchronized to the taped presentation. For example, as the
human subject on tape stands up and then lies down, his ECG changes are
traced on paper in real time, allowing the viewer to retain copies of the
graphs generated. Excellent video graphics supplement clear presentations,
although a few of the presentations are rather dry, emphasizing the technical
details of human or animal experiments. A few terms need to be adapted
from British to American parlance. The company has an extensive catalogue
of tapes in several areas of pharmacology and physiology: basic principles
of ECG and arrythmias, Hering Bruer reflex, cholinesterases and anti-
cholinesterases, histamine, sympathomimetics, neuromuscular blocking
agents, and numerous others. Tapes cost approximately $200. The catalogue
is well worth looking through.

THE MECHANISMS CONTROLLING RESPIRATION IN THE MAM-
MAL, I & II

Dr. Howard Stone, Dept. of Physiology, Univ. of Wisconsin, 1300 Universi-
ty Ave., Room 2069, Madison, WI 53706, 608-262-2067. 57 min., VHS

Respiratory physiology is discussed in a detailed experiment. Respiratory
rate and amplitude are measured on a dog subjected to various concentra-
tions of nitrogen, oxygen, carbon dioxide, and hyperventilation. Supplemen-
tary graphics are presented. Also demonstrated are the interactions of
peripheral chemoreceptors with brain centers, occlusion of the common
carotids, administration of sodium cyanide and epinephrine, stimulation of
the saphenous nerve, vagal ligation, vagal stimulation, hemorrhage, and
apnea. Not an exciting presentation, but covers the important concepts.

THE AUTONOMIC NERVOUS SYSTEM
Adam Rouilly London, Ltd., Crown Quay Lane, Sittingbourne, Kent, ME10
3JG, UK, 28 min., VHS, Beta

Using photography and animation, this new videotape presents an over—
view of the autonomic nervous system. The control of the heart, respira-
tion, body temperature, kidney function, water balance, and other factors
are depicted. Not yet available in American video format.

THE STRUCTURE AND FUNCTION OF THE HEART

Adam Rouilly London, Ltd., Crown Quay Lane, Sittingbourne, Kent, ME10
3JC, UK, 28 min., VHS, Beta

A new product in which the structure of the heart, the function of the
valves, the pulmonary circulation, arrhythmias, angina and myocardial in-
farction are presented. Not yet available in American video format.

6

 




CARDIOVASCULAR SYSTEM
Ayerst Continuing Medical Education Service, 22 Riverview Drive, Wayne,
NJ 07470. VHS, 3/4"

This three-part series begins in a very basic manner explaining elemen-
tary concepts about blood, blood vessels, and heart function. With excellent
graphics, more sophisticated material is eventually presented. Module 1 (40
min.) discusses basics of the cardiovascular system, electrical conduction of
the heart, autonomic system, and blood pressure. Module 2 (41 min.)
discusses the abnormalities of the cardiovascular system, again, in very simple
terms. Coronary heart disease, infections of the heart, congestive heart
failure, idiopathic hypertrophic subaortic stenosis, valvular disease, ar-
rythmias, and blood pressure abnormalities are described. Module 3 (42
min.) covers beta-adrenergic blockade in the management of cardiac ab—
normalities. Basics of the autonomic nervous system are reviewed and the
role of Inderal (Ayerst’s brand of propranolol) in the treatment of ar-
rhythmias, angina pectoris, hypertension is detailed. Digitalis, nitroglycerin,
diuretics, and vasodilators are also noted.

DRUG METABOLISM, Module II.
Ayerst Continuing Medical Education Service, 22 Riverview Drive, Wayne,
NJ 07470. 26 min., VHS, 3/4"

This videotape explains the basics of absorption, distribution, biotransfor—
mation, and excretion. The presentation begins very simply, but then covers
peak value, serum half-life, rate constants, protein binding, placental drug
transfer, and how individual differences can affect drug metabolism.
Graphics are excellent.

CANCLIONIC TRANSMISSION IN THE CAT NICTITATINC
MEMBRANE

Office of Educational Services, Univ. of Colorado Health Sciences Center,
4200 E. 9th Avenue, Denver, CO 80262. 54 min., VHS, 3/4" $55.

A lecture/demonstration by Dr. Ullrich Trendelenberg on ganglionic
transmission, using the cat’s nictitating membrane as a model. Nicotine,
norepinephrine, acetylcholine, atropine, and other agents are administered
to illustrate how ganglionic transmission is affected. This is a clear, but rather
old, black-and—white presentation which relies on Dr. Trendelenberg’s ability
to present the subject matter.

 




 

 

 

THE ACTIONS OF NOREPINEPHRINE AND CARDIAC GLYCOSIDES
ON THE DOG HEART LUNG PREPARATION, PARTS I AND 11
Office of Educational Services, University of Colorado Health Sciences
Center, 4200 E. 9th Ave., Denver, CO 80262 60 min., VHS, 3/4” $60.

A videotaped lecture/demonstration by Otto Krayer showing the effects
of various agents on cardiac output, heart rate, and blood pressure in the
Starling preparation. Demonstrations include the effects of increasing blood
volume, myocardial failure by sodium pentobarbital, competence test in the
failing heart, effects of norepinephrine, effects of ouabain, and others.
Theory is well-described, although the black-and-White presentation keeps
the viewer at a distance.

EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT, THE lST 30 MINUTES
Institute for Continuing Medical Education, McGraw Hill, 4530 W. 77 St.,
Minneapolis, MN 55435.

This is a series of well-made tapes covering the pathophysiology, diagnosis,
and treatment of cardiac arrhythmias, pneumothorax, hemothorax, diabetic
ketoacidosis, hypertensive crisis, septic shock, pulmonary embolism, drug
overdOse, anaphylactic shock, and many other conditions. Also included are
tapes on blood gases, CVP measurement, and other clinically relevant skills.

 




 

COMPUTER SIMULATIONS

DXTER
Intelligent Images, 5510 Morehouse Dr., San Diego, CA 92121, 800-
433-9837.

This stunning interactive computer/videodisc system presents the student
clinician with realistic videotaped clinical situations which change based
on the clinical decisions the viewer makes. Most discs relate to emergency
medicine, although the menu is expanding.

CARDIOVASCULAR LABORATORY VIDEODISC SIMULATION
Charles E. Branch, College of Veterinary Medicine, Auburn University,
Alabama 36849, 205-826—4425.

This interactive video includes sections on catheterization of the left and
right heart, direct and reflex effects of autonomic drugs, vagal stimulation,
baroreceptor reflexes, atrial and ventricular fibrillation and defibrillation,
and other effects. A helpful autonomic tutorial is also presented for those
who are new to autonomic physiology. The program is available in three
versions: IBM InfoWindows allows the computer and video to appear on
a single monitor using the Pioneer LD—V6000 or LD-V6010 and the Sony
LDP—2000 series players. The program can also be played on two separate
monitors, using any RGB monitor. Finally, in a custom overlay version, the
videodisc and computer information appear on a single Sony Profeel monitor
or similar dual RGB/composite monitor using the Pioneer LD-V6000 and
LD-V6010 players. Other hardware options are under development.
Videodisc and documentation are available for $800. A demonstration
videotape and computer disk are available.

CARDIOLAB
Biosoft, PO. Box 580, Milltown, N] 08850, 201—613-9013. IBM PC, APPLE
II OR BBC B. $199.00 Demonstration version $25.00

This enjoyable and instructive program simulates cardiovascular phar-
macology experiments. It shows blood pressure and heart rate responses us-
ing 10 agonists, 12 antagonists, and unknowns. The program allows for in-
dividual variations in the "subjects" demonstrated.

PHYSIOLOGY TEACHING PROGRAMS

Joseph Boyle, University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey, 100 Bergen
Street, Newark, NJ 07103, 201-456-4464. Five Disks. IBM color graphics
board or equivalent, 5 1/4" disk drive, and 512K RAM required.

 




 

Disk l Respiratory l’hysiologv l’rogram $40.00

I his is an interactive simulation of pulmonary function, ventilation, and
gas exchange. The student uses common pulmonary function test data and
identifies abnormal results. The program simulates the effects of obstruc-
tive and restrictive lung disease. A second program examines the factors that
eontrol ()2 and (302 tensions in the body: alveolar ventilation, diffusion,
hemoglobin saturation. and ventilation-perfusion. A third program pertains
to gas exchange at the lungs and in the tissues.

Disk 2 Circulatory System $30.00

This program simulates cardiovascular function. Stroke volume is deter-
mined b_v ventricular wall stress, ventricular volume and contractility.
Students can change the subject’s age, ventricular muscle mass, contractili-
ty. heart rate, blood volume, and arteriolar resistance, and can deal with
the effects of hemorrhage, coronary occlusion, exercise, chronic left ven-
tricular f ailure. aortic insufficiency, aortic stenosis, mitral stenosis, mitral
regurgitation. arteriovenous shunt, and cardiac tamponade. The program
also allows the user to vary arterial resistance, venous resistance, arterial
pressure. right atrial pressure, reflection coefficient, permeability—surface
area coefficient, initial oncotic pressure, and interstitial pressure.

Disk 3 EKG Tutor $35.00

This program presents basic cardiac electrophysiology, including the com—
ponents of the normal EKG, and the sequence of cardiac excitation, the
EKG lead system. and cardiac vectors. Following each section, the student
must answer questions correctly or risk being returned to the appropriate
section of the program to review.

Disk 4 Acid—Base Game $30.00

The student can select either a tutorial or a game format. The program
covers the Henderson-Hasselbach equation and the relationships between
I’aCOZ, HCO3, and pH, and renal tubular mechanisms of hydrogen ion
and bicarbonate excretion and reabsorption. Abnormal conditions are
presented for the student to diagnose and treat.

Disk 5 Miscellaneous Programs $30.00

Three programs are presented: FLOW illustrates relationships between
arterial and venous pressures, flow, and resistance. In PULMONARY
MECHANICS, relationships between lung elastance and airway resistance
and alveolar pressures are examined. Unknown conditions are presented.
The final program is a presentation of heart sounds, aortic pressure, atrlal
and ventricular pressure, ventricular volume, and EKG. The program also
provides questions for the student.

10

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

CARDIOVASCULAR INTERACTIONS
Carl F. Rothe, Dept. of Physiology and Biophysics, Indiana University School
of Medicine, 635 Barnhill Dr., Indianapolis, IN 46223, 312-274-8250.

This simulation depicts how changes in vascular resistance, arterial com-
pliance, heart rate and contractility, and venous return affect cardiac out-
put, arterial pressure, and other parameters. The effects of heart failure,
systemic and pulmonary hypertension, exercise, hemorrhage, increased in-
trathoracic pressure, and changes in blood pressure are depicted. Students
should have some prior knowledge of cardiovascular physiology.

THE MAC SERIES OF MEDICAL AND PHYSIOLOGICAL
SIMULATIONS in
D. Ingram et al., IRL Press Ltd., PO. Box I, Eynsham, Oxford, OX8 1]], UK.

The “MAC” name refers to McMaster University, not to Macintosh com-
puters. Requirements include an IBM PC, 512 KB of memory, PC/MS—DOS
version 2.0 or later, graphics adapter and display. The programs require lit-
tle computer knowledge, but can be quite challenging.

MACPUF simulates lung and airway function experimentally and clinical-
ly, in particular the oxygenation of venous blood and the transfer of gases
between blood and tissues. Numerous variables can be manipulated by the
student. $225.

MACDOPE presents absorption, distribution, metabolism, and elimina—
tion of drugs. Drug and patient factors interact, affecting half-life, volume
of distribution, protein—binding, and other factors. Students also learn how
to write prescriptions. May be of most benefit for mediCal students in their
clinical years. $225.

MACPEE depicts the interactions of circulation, kidney function, body
fluid, and electrolyte compartments. The program reports plasma sodium,
potassium, urea, creatinine, albumin, hemoglobin, packed cell volume, right
atrial pressure, body weight, and water and solute excretion. The program
can simulate conditions such as diabetes insipidus, inappropriate ADH, and
Addison’s disease. An enjoyable program. $225.

MACMAN is a study of the circulatory system, representing the interac-
tion of the heart, the vasomotor center in the brain, intra-thoracic pressure,
the carotid sinus, vascular flow, and sympathetic function. The program
is equipped with clinically relevant symptoms and signs, and can simulate
the Valsalva maneuver, hemorrhage, pulmonary edema, etc. Students should
have some prior knowledge of physiology. $135.

11

 

 

 




 

l'll \li\i.\( :( )kl\lfll( :3
in \\ llll.‘tHi (mole: liastern Virginia Medical School, Dept. of Phar-
l11.l(ttl‘)','\, l’.‘ ). limit lllbil, \(ll‘ltillx', \\ 2330] 8i)i-~li(i-5635. RCQUiI‘GS IBM

«oinpatilnlit'. .llltl graphics.

\iiniilalioii lHI lmtli one (‘t)Hl})ilI‘lHl(‘Ill 21ml two—compartment models.
\tinlrntn «an ilH‘.\\t'l' \l|l(l\ problems and use the program to Visualize im-
pt ’I l.llll pliai tinn-oLiin-tie parameters. :\ liser—l‘rientlly program, but students
.litillltl lmu- a prior nntlerstninling ol' basic concepts: volume Of distribu-
tir »n_ « li‘.ti.‘iH('cz hall tinn- lHI' elimination, and half-time for absorption When
.nlinnnxtt-ii-tl oinlli or li\ l.\'. liolns.

\ll (ill \\l( f \l. l’li( )l’l'lli'l'll'lS ()l“ :\(:'l‘l\'l‘i NiUSCLE

( niiiptt‘su. l’.( ). lim lll‘l. \Veiilu‘orlll. NH 800-221-0419 01‘ 603-764-
'i\ ll, limpint-x ll’)\l l’(.' X'I'XI‘ or compatible. 256K HAM, 51/4" drive, color
.'I.i;wlil<". .itl.iplei giiitl (‘Hillpztlilile graphics monitor. $70.00.

\ n .nelnllx inatle set ol six programs concerned with the contraction Of
l>"lt‘l.ll nnm-Ita l-Ilt-i-trit-al stimulation. isometric contraction, isotonic con-
tuntion Ion-r \t‘lttt'ii_\ and loree—leiigtli relationships are covered in detail
.irnl .l plnaiologit-al simulation in the form of a video game is presented.
l lH‘Wt' programs also :illtm li)!‘ unstructured experimentation. Thls product
pit-arms .‘til .‘lt‘l in- learningr experience. The instructions are easy to follow
.ltlltl the graphics are \ei'_\' \Vt‘ll (lone.

(‘\lil)l.\(i \ll‘M .‘l .l': \il‘XIliANlCS

( ‘onipress. l’.( ), Box 10:3. \Ventworth. NH 03282, 800—221-0419 #1);
min: TM 385%]. lierpiires [BM I’(I"X'I‘/A'I‘ or compatible, 256K.RAM,255100
ilriu; (-olor graphics adapter and compatible graphics monitor. $1 .

This ”(mum i, a graphic aid for use in instruction and can 318i: be urseilg
as a \tndent review tool. It is a simulation of heart muscle bef-WIOThe
I'espnilse to changes in the variables oilength» load, and contrgcttlllétzoffects
program covers isometric contraction. isotonic contraction, an b used as
ot changes in contractilitv in depth. Colorful illustrations can e

a supplement for lectures.

(i.-\Hl)l;\(3 I’II.‘\I{I\I.I\(Z()I.()GY _
lit. \Valker. I’h.I).. University of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston, Texas

7733i), 409-781-2966. Requires IBM compatibility and graphics-

. o 6,
This simulation presents the electrical actiVity of the SAaniﬁeﬁngfm
right ventricle and left ventricle, and traces blood volugne torbradycardiaa
tricle. This program allows the study of the normal V89," d i italiS intOX-
tachvcardia. vagal simulation, bundle branch block, P h S’thegopportuni'
ication. catecholamines. and re—entry. The student alsokaswns including
tv to identify anti—arrhythmic agents presentedaSTlﬁr,l I130 able simula-
(iuinidine. propranolol. phenytoin, and verapamil. t lestifnisy
tion provides good graphics and easy to follow ins ru .

12

 




 

 

REGULATION OF THE CARDIOVASCULAR SYSTEM
].R. Walker, Ph.D., University of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston, Texas
77550, 409-761-2966. Requires IBM compatibility and graphics.

This program reviews the reflex regulation of blood pressure, the effects
of neurotransmitters and pharmacologic agents, and demonstrates the in-
teraction of various elements of the cardiovascular system: carotid occlu-
sion, vagal ligation, angiotensin, acetylcholine, norepinephrine, epinephrine,
isoproterenol, vasodilators, and blocking agents. Dr. Walker has provided
easy-to-follow instructions.

EFFECTS OF DRUGS ON THE UTERUS AND THE INTESTINE
].R. Walker, Ph.D., University of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston, Texas
77550, 409—761—2966. Requires IBM compatibility and graphics.

This simulation shows how estrogen affects uterine activity and respon-
siveness to drugs and the effects of drugs on intestinal smooth muscle. The
effects of oxytocin, ADH, prostaglandin F 2a, acetylcholine, epinephrine,
clonidine, and isoproterenol, phentolamine, propranolol, and atropine are
presented. Students are able to complete a simulated experiment and iden—
tify unknowns. Clear instructions are included.

CARDIOVASCULAR SYSTEMS AND DYNAMICS

Command Applied Technology, Inc., PO. Box 511, West 400 Main Street,
Pullman, WA 99163, 509-334—6145. Requires IBM compatibility, 256 K RAM,
8087 math co-processor, color graphics adapter, and color monitor. Program
is in process of adaptation for broader compatibility. $150.00

This computer simulation, developed by Nils Peterson, presents the classic
isolated heart preparation used in many physiology demonstrations, focus-
ing on left ventricular function with controllable filling pressure, heart rate,
inotropic strength, and Starling resistor. A second program adds the right
ventricle and pulmonary circulation so that filling pressure, left and right
ventricle inotropic states, and pulmonary capillary resistance can be con-
trolled. A third program simulates systemic circulation and presents the con-
cepts of peripheral resistance, venous compliance, and others. In a final pro-
gram, the heart—lung preparation and the systemic circulation are integrated.
A popular and well-made product.

PULMONARY MECHANICS LAB

Command Applied Technology, Inc., PO. Box 511, West 400 Main Street,
Pullman, WA 99163, 509-334-6145. Requires IBM compatibility, 256 K RAM,
8087 math co-processor, Color Graphics Adapter, and color monitor. Pro—
gram is in process of adaptation for broader compatibility. $150.00

13

 

 

 

 




 

'l'his simulation demonstrates respiratory physiology. The initial presen-
tations isolate various respiratory functions. focusing on alveolar behavior
in isolation and in a inulti—alveolar system. the lung in isolation, the chest
\yall in isolation. and the lung and chest wall interacting. Finally, the
respiratory dynamic lal) presents a system complete with airway resistance
and respiratory muscle action.

l’l H'SH )l .( )( th I:\l. Sl.\ll'l¢\'lll().\' 'l‘lCAClllNC SOFTWARE

James l'l. ltandall, (ill!) S. Jordan Ave. liloomington, IN 47401, 812—335-1574.
Dr. llandall has developed several useful programs as described below. IBM
eonipatiliililty and graphics are required. The group of programs is available
for a total cost of Stilltlt),

0 The Human

This user friendly simulation demonstrates the interactions of the car-
dioyaseular. respiratory. renal. and temperature regulatory systems. It shows
the physiological effects of hemorrhage. heat stress, exercise, and changes
in lt'yt'ls of inspired earhon dioxide. The hemodynamic effects of transfu—
sit in. left \ent rieular failure. and other factors are also demonstrated. Useful
\Uu'lx'sltt't‘ls are provided. The use of a hospital chart format and unknowns
makes the program very enjoyable. May be of particular interest for the
clinical years of medical school.

' l’iasic l‘ilectrophysiology

This tutorial covers factors affecting transmembrane forces, action poten—
tials. saltatorv conduction. and the summation of single channels. Helpful
summaries of concepts are included following each exer01se. .An eleC-
tI‘<)})l1}'8i<)l()Q}' demonstration disk for use in classroom demonstrations 181E-
eluded. which covers action potential. summation and accommodation, SP1 e
train. voltage clamp. single channels and saltatory conductlon. it IS a usecrl-
friendly tutorial with helpful graphics. Little previous knowledge 18 requ1r€ -

0 Basic Cardiovascular

liscellent tutorial covering several aspects of cardiovascular funct10n.RISt
allows the manipulation of vectors. showing the resultant effects on the Q d
complex. and discusses how ventricular strength, end—diastollc volume, e‘ml
afterload influence stroke volume. Also demonstrated are the mechanlca
factors influencing pulse pressure in the aorta, and, finally, the Interactmg
hetyveen cardiac pumping and the physical properties of the SySteruC'lane
pulmonary vasculature. including the effects of hemorrhage, heart a1 ur(i
and changes in vascular resistance. The program is user-frlendly and a goo
tutorial for medical students.

14

 

 




 

 

0 Basic Pharmacokinetics

This first demonstrates a single—compartment model, showing the effects
of route of administration, and chemical nature of drugs on their plasma
concentrations. A second program demonstrates the more complex interac-
tion of the initial distribution of a drug and its elimination using various half-
lives. A third program shows the effects of changing the volume of distribu-
tion and rates of distribution and elimination. Some prior knowledge of phar-
macokinetics is helpful.

0 Acid-Base Physiology

This simulation demonstrates acid-base regulation by renal and respiratory
mechanisms. An appendix supplies helpful background information on the
Henderson-Hasselbalch equation and the blood buffer line using the Daven-
port diagram.

Dr. Randall’s Microcomputers and Physiological Simulation, now in its
second edition (New York: Raven Press, 1987), is an excellent and comprehen-
sive guide to the field, detailing applications and sources of software.

BLOOD SUGAR
Queue, Inc., 562 Boston Ave., Bridgeport, CT 06610, 800-232-2224.

This clear and instructive program demonstrates the relationships bet-
ween glucose, glycogen, adrenaline, glucagon, insulin, diet, exercise, urinary
glucose, and shock. Programmable variables include a normal or diabetic
patient, activity level, food intake, insulin injections, and shock.

PHARMATUTOR

Fund for Research in Alternatives to Animal Experimentation, Biberlinstr.
5, 8032, Zurich, Switzerland, phone: 01 55 70 70. Requires Macintosh com-
puter with 512 K. Available in English and German versions.

This program consists of five short class exercises, including the computer
teaching program with adjunctive written exercises and discussion sessions.
The programs are also suitable for a lecture format. Programs include phar-
macokinetic simulations, the effects of adrenergic and cholinergic agonists
and antagonists on the cardiovascular system, regulators of smooth muscle
function and neuromuscular transmission.

15

 

 

 




 

MAXSlM

J. (labrielsson. Dept. ol Bi<)pharmzu-euties and l’liarmacokinctics, Box 580,
S-751, 23 Uppsala. Sweden. Phone: ()(Hti—18-17-1303. Requires IBM com-
patibilitv with 256 K. $85.

This program. novv in wide use. simulates drug absorption. distribution,
and elimination in detail. Updates on the original MAXSIM include the
pharmacokinetics of the placenta, uptake via the skin and lungs, and in-
structional programs in clinical pharmacologv and toxicology.

TIIE RICSI’IRA’I‘ORY SYSTICM

Ilarold I. Modell. National Resource for (Iomputers in Life Science Educa-
tion. Mail Stop liC-Tt). Universitv ol \\'ashington. Seattle, WA 98195,
206—548—6244. Available for IBM. Apple II. and Macintosh. $100.

Twelve simulations are included along with a laboratory manual.
Demonstrations include the elastic properties of the lung and chest wall,
the effects of lung compliance and ainvav resistance on tidal volume, the
work of breathing, alveolar gas exchange. oxvgen and carbon dioxide
dissociation curves. and other aspects of gas exchange. and detailed simula-
tions of ventilation-perfusion relationships and acid—base balance.

COMPUTER SIMULATION OF THE NEURONAL ACTION
POTENTIAL

Paul R. Solomon. Dept. of Psychology. Bronhnan Science Center, Williams
College. V’Villiamstown. MA 01267. Send a blank diskette and a stamped
return mailer. Available for Macintosh with 512K and Apple II+ with 48K.

This simulation presents the neuronal resting and action potential, allow—
ing the user to observe the movement of ions across the membrane.

16

 




 

Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine
BO. BOX 6322, Washington, DC. 20015, 202-483-1312

Further information and bulk ordering available on request.

Special thanks to Robert Eckstein, William Ghee, Scott Tenner, Eric
Hartmann, Michael McCrath, Christie Sporer, and Barbara Maki
for their reviews of Videotapes and computer programs, to the
manufacturers and distributors who made their products available
for review, to the Charlotte and William Parks Foundation for its
generous support, and to the American Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals for assistance with printing costs.

 




 




 

 

 

 

Fme lene Order Service
Dial 1500—5588595

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
 
    

   

 

wﬁi‘. m- 5... <—:¢7‘~- ~ ~ .A 4»; WW.
\

   

 

         
    

. ,.......-.T_,‘., WW- .5.” .. ...:.,A4~.~y. .. w,-_.......,.a'm._.

 

 

 

.5."

‘24-."

 

n

 

 

    

M
.6“ 5‘

\
n‘N“
._

 

v-
:w“ \\'\

'V‘LH,~"‘\:\\

ASCO'S WOL
F EXCTING SC

 

 
  
 

. CHEMICALS w
I . “VIDEOBASSETTES. ' ;

 

 

x‘i _

  
 

'. V
n. 7“. '~'

    

M

 

 

an“ i??? 1‘

J!
k ‘ ,A 4
‘,1‘::m ILA' m A. "w

.1.me --_J ‘5: MM ;_.-:‘k;.._v u‘ﬁtga.~~.-.-..& J¢m~~_*"

3L ’2




/.

II ‘ '
111W”

1/
1/‘1'11M1I/1/1/Ir11 W
’” 1

' No drip covers -—1- exclusrve deSIgn
forces condensation to remain in
tank

Flex-Tanks and Covers can be used in the

classroom as aquariums, terrariums, or critter 1 ¢ , 1 1 1

chambers. They are superior alternatives to rigid ‘ ’ ”W ’ " . Contact
plastic tanks used in Elementary Life Science 1 V , ' 1 'f p'j * " ,' N ASCO
Curriculums. ‘1 , ' 1 r ‘ ‘1 1 for Special

 

 

$314936M 1 gal. Flex—Tank. . . . $2.25 " I ‘w Prlces on

10 or more, each ..... $2.00 1 1 p 1 1 1 1 Large”

if? lSBlSO7lM 1 gal. Flex— Cover $ .90 '1 . 1 _ ‘ a 1, quantltles.

10 or more, each . . . . . . . $ .30 g C .. _‘ . 1 p See page 19
-SBI7316M '/2 gal. Flex Tank $1.60 ~ 1 * g 1 ~ for 1V2 gal-
10 or more, each . . . . . . $1.40 1 2.. ‘ f1 ' ‘ 1 Flex—Tank and
[:35318072M 1/2 gal. Flex— cover $ .85 1 1- 1 ' v Cover.

10 or more, each s .7 5 1 ' “

 

 

Deluxe159315235 . 1 ‘ ‘ ' 5811663

 

 

Less expensive than
traditional aluminum pans
Won't rust, crack or leak
Last indeﬁnitely - will
not dent like aluminum
Non-skid pads prevent
movement on table
Bottom retains shape --
does not become
rounded with use

0 Not as deep -- easier
to perform routine
dissections

- Designed to be used
with Disecto Flex-
Pads only _ not intended Flex~Pad and Cover
to be used with black wax .. .7 1 ,1 SB!5236M Deluxe Polyethylene Pan with Disecto
Available in three popular sizes ' . " - Flex~Pad
Econopan . . . . . , _ , , , , , , , , , , , , , 1x0" 7" SB]5237M Deluxe Polyethylene Pan Only

standard o o n a . . 11/3" x 71 n J/
Deluxe ' ° ‘ ' ' ' ' 2%" x 9" SEE PAGE 54 FOR comma us'rmc, 0;: 9555mm PANS.

Copyright © 1969 by Nosco. All rights reserved. Reproduction
in whole or in part is prohibited.

SBISZBSM Deluxe Polyethylene Pan with Disecto

 




 

    

  

W‘w MWIWM. w, my- _ l
y 1 Ar ”'4. . a
. mm, . p
{4” ' {f wan..."
., 21‘

m

.. Magi; "i“ I I

6%,,“ ”Haw/timﬁtgm 1.;
Mat-"WWW!“

THE [NJ/5133mm ADVANTAGE

0 ALL SPECIMENS UNCONDITIONALLY GUARANTEED.
0 LOW PRICING INCLUDES ALL SHIPPING CONTAINERS.
0 EXTENDED SHELF LIFE WITH VACU PAC PACKAGING.

0 INDIVIDUAL STUDENT STORAGE BAGS PROVIDED FOR
EACH SPECIMEN.

- SAFE TO USE: Testing by the Consumer Product Safety
Commission indicates that students and instructors work-
ing with Nasco-Guard® specimens are exposed to the lowest
concentration of formaldehyde per liter of air (PPM) of all
brands tested.

Nasco-Guard® Specimens allow students to work unham-
pered by the odor and messiness associated with formal-
dehyde, and special ventilation is not required. Dissection
labs become a positive experience for all students when
Nasco-Guard® odorless, nontoxic* specimens are used.

*Nontoxic unless ingested.

 
     

12.7. 7 him-{717211
2m warm it

w

   
 

Nasco-Guard® Specimens are the best and safest that
money can buy. The unique Nasco-Guard® process for
preserving specimens has been patented under Patent No.
3573082. Most Nasco-Guard® Specimens are initially fixed
in a 3.7% formaldehyde solution, which is still the best
animal tissue fixative known. In the Nasco-Guard® process,
skilled Nasco technicians remove the formaldehyde fixative
in a series of water baths then painstakingly perfuse the
specimens with ethylene glycol until tissue fluids contain
at least 25% glycol; this inhibits the growth of decay
organisms by raising the osmotic pressure of the specimen.
Ethylene glycol also acts as a humectant to ensure moist
specimens, and it lowers the vapor pressure of residual
formaldehyde, thus markedly reducing the concentration of

   
  

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

     
 

 

 

    
   
         

formaldehyde fumes in the lab. Perfusion also washes away
water-soluble carbohydrates and proteins which could
nourish decay organisms. Residual formaldehyde is further
reduced as it reacts with ethylene glycol to form hemiacetals
and acetals which have a very low order of toxicity. Large
embalmed mammals may contain trace amounts of phenol.

Nasco-Guard® Specimens are not packaged until they have
met Nasco’s rigid quality control standards for content of
formaldehyde and ethylene glycol. Nasco-Guard® Speci-
mens contain less than 0.5% residual formaldehyde.

MATERIAL SAFETY DATA SHEEI'S FOR NASCO-GUARD®
SPECIMENS ARE AVAILABLE UPON REQUEST.

NASCO OFFERS BUDGET STRETCHING PRICES

Nasco would welcome the opportunity to bid on
your preserved material requirements for the
complete school year. Please send'your bid re-
quest to Nasco and we will promptly quote a
competitive delivered price.

Nasco has many imitators who claim to have an
equivalent product to Nasco-Guard® . For the

Amoeba proteus. Sh. wt. 8 oz. for class of 30.

Euglena. Sh. wt. 8 oz. for class of 30.

safety of both teachers and students, insist that
the preserved specimens you are putting out on
bid contain no more than 0.5% residual for-
maldehyde, and that they be perfused with an
ethylene glycol solution of at least 25%.

If you require additional information to prepare
your quotation request, please contact Nasco
Biology Department.

 

Mixed protozoa. Contains 60 each of three species:

LS2385(A)M For class of 30 ............ $2.60 L82387(A)M For class of 30 ............ $2.60 Amoeba proteus, Paramecium caudatum, Euglena.
L52385(C)M For class of 120 ,,,,,,,,,,, 33,40 L52387(C)M For class of 120 ........... $8.40 Sh. wt. 8 oz.
L82388M Per unit ..................... $9.45

Paramecium caudatum. Sh. wt. 8 oz. for class of 30.
LS2386(A)M For class of 30 ............ $2.60

LS2386(C)M For class of 120 ........... $8.40




Grantia (Scypha). Simple sponge, 1/4”-1/2” (7

mm-1.3 cm). Unit of 10. Sh. wt. 5 oz.

LS3530M Per unit ..................... $3.50
10 or more units, each ........ $3.40

Grantia (Scypha). Simple sponge, 1/2”-3A1” (1.3-2

cm). Unit of 10. Sh. wt. 5 oz.

LS1269M Per unit ..................... $5.10
10 or more units, each ........ $4.90

Large Hydra, all specially selected from stocks
grown in our facility. Relaxed, expanded, and cor-
rectly preserved. Sold as budding or sexed.

Hydra. Extended, plain. Unit of 10. Sh. wt. 5 oz.
LS1275M Per unit ..................... $1.90
10 or more units, each ........ $1.60

Hydra. Budding. Unit of 10. Sh. wt. 5 oz.
LS1276M Per unit ..................... $2.50
10 or more units, each ........ $2.20

Gonionemus. The best hydroid medusae for class

study. Large specimens. Sh. wt. 4 02. each.

LS1273M Each ....................... $1.20
10 or more, each ............. $1.10

Physalia. Portuguese man-of—war. A floating, com-
plex colony. Used to demonstrate polymorphism.
Has four different types of polyps. Large
specimen. Sh. wt. 10 02. each.

LS3529M Each ....................... $6.50

Obelia hydroids. Unit of 10. Sh. wt. 5 oz.
LS1280M Per unit ..................... $2.60
10 or more units, each ........ $2.40

Obelia medusae. Unit of 10. Sh. wt. 5 oz.
LS2393M Per unit ..................... $2.80
10 or more units, each ........ $2.60

Grantia (Scypha). Simple sponge, 3A” (2 cm) and

over. Unit of 10. Sh. wt. 5 oz.

LS3531M Per unit ..................... $6.30
10 or more units, each ........ $6.10

Leucosolenia sp. Displays asconoid morphology.
Unit of 10. Sh. wt. 8 oz.
LS3454M Per unit ..................... $3.60

Commercial sponge (Spongia sp.). Displays
leuconoid morphology. Unit of 10 pcs. Sh. wt. 8
oz.

LS3455M Per unit ..................... $3.70

Freshwater sponge (Spongilla sp.). Displays
leuconoid morphology. Unit of 10 pcs. Sh. wt. 8
oz.

LS3456M Per unit ..................... $3.00

Porifera collection. Grantia, commercial sponge,
and freshwater sponge. Each in individual labeled
container. Sh. wt. 1 lb.

LS3457M Per set ..................... $4.15

Jellyfish (Aurelia).

Medium. 2”-3”. Sh. wt. 8 oz. per 10.

LS3614M Each ....................... $1.35
10 or more, each . . .' .......... $1.25
100 or more, each ............ $1.15

Jellyfish (Aurelia). Large. 3”-4”. Sh. wt. 10 oz. per

10.

LS1272M Each ....................... $1.50
10 or more, each ............. $1.35
100 or more, each ............ $1.25

Coral, northern (Astrangia sp.). Preserved, pieces
with expanded polyps; typical zooantherian. Unit
of 10 pcs. Sh. wt. 1 lb.

LS3458M Per unit .................... $15.00

Coral, organ pipe (Tubipora sp.). Supplied dry. An ex-
ample of a stoloniferan. Unit of 10 pcs. Sh. wt. 1 lb.
L83459M Per unit .................... $25.00

Sea anemone (Metridium). Large, 2” (5 cm) dia. at

base. Sh. wt. 10 oz. per 10.

LS1279M Each ....................... $2.60
10 or more, each ............. $2.40
100 or more, each ............ $2.15

Sea anemone (Metridium). Medium, 11/2” (4 cm)

die. at base. Sh. wt. 10 oz. per 10.

LS2394M Each ....................... $2.05
10 or more, each ............. $1.90
100 or more, each ...... .$1.75

COELENTERATE COMPARISON

One each medusa (Gonionemus sp.), jellyfish
(Aurelia sp.), sea anemone (Metridium sp.). One
representative piece of a hydroid (Obe/ia sp.) and
soft coral (Gorgonia sp.). All stained and cleared.
The mount also includes one piece of hard coral.
SB7219M ............................ $19.20

Terebrafella ’

Terebratella. Large. Sh. wt. 10 oz. per 10.
LS2398M Each ....................... $1.95
10 or more, each ............. $1.80

Lingula. Most primitive of all living genera. Sh. wt.

4 oz.

LS3540M Each ....................... $2.20
10 or more, each ............. $2.05

SEA WALNUT

Sea Walnut (Pleurobrachia). Large. Unit of 10. Sh.
wt. 5 oz.
L82392M Per unit ..................... $6.50

Sea Walnut (Pleurobrachia). Medium. Unit of 10.
LS3541M Per unit ..................... $5.50

, . , - x . 3
.9. . 1' . .-'—.' \
. . ‘.~ I I
‘1, | W _':.. .
‘ ”I r- ;

m"’~

.' I “

Planar!

Planaria (Dugesia sp.). Large size. Unit of 10. Sh.

wt. 5 oz.

LS1286M Per unit ..................... $2.30
10 or more units, each ...... ‘ . .$2.15

Beef tapeworm (Taenia saginata). Gravid seg-
ment. Popular for study of the typical cestode
morphology. Sh. wt. 4 oz.

LS3460M Each ...................... $11.00

Dog tapeworm (Taenia pisiformis). Complete
worms, scolex thru mature proglottids. Sh. wt. 4

oz.
LS3564M Each ....................... $5.80

Dog tapeworm (Dipylidium caninum). One of the
most common internal parasites of dogs and
cats. Species has two sets of reproductive
organs. Complete with scolex. Sh. wt. 8 oz.

L83594M Each ....................... $4.25

Sheep tapeworm (Moniezia). Unit of 10. Sh. wt. 10 oz.
LS1285M Per unit .................... $16.00

LIVER
FLUKE

Sheep liver fluke (Fasciola hepatica). Sh. wt. 10

oz. per 10.

LS1283M Each ....................... $2.25
10 or more, each ............. $1.90

 




Dog hookworm (Ancylostoma caninum). Mixed
sexes in a vial. Unit of 10. Sh. wt. 8 oz.
LS3595M Per unit ..................... $5.75

Pig roundworm (Ascaris Iumbricoides). Unit of 10.

Sh. wt. 5 oz.

L81071M Per unit ..................... $3.00
10 or more units, each ........ $2.85

OCTOPUS

Octopus (Octopus bairdr). Small 2”-5” (5-12 cm).

Sh. wt. 2 oz.

LS1303M Each ....................... $6.50
10 or more, each ............. $6.20

Chiton (Katharina tunicata). About 3” (8 cm). Sh.

wt. 10 oz. per 10.

LS2624M Each ....................... $1.80
10 or more, each ............. $1.50

Chiton. Small, about 1” (2.5 cm). Sh. wt. 10 oz. per

10.

LS1295M Each ....................... $1.20
10 or more, each ............. $1.05

Land snail (Helix). Large. Unit of 10. Sh. wt. 10 oz.
LSt301M Per unit ..................... $4.60

Slug (Limax). About 2” (5 cm). Unit of 10. Sh. wt. 10 oz
LS2411M Per unit ..................... $6.50

MARINE PELECYPODS

Marine quahog (Venus mercenaria). Thick-shelled

marine clam. Sh. wt. 7 lbs. 8 oz. per 10.

LS2416M Each ....................... $1.10
10 or more, each ............. $ .91
100 or more, each ............ $ .88

Blue Saltwater Mussel (Mytilus). 2”-3” mussels.
Unit of 10. Sh. wt. 10 oz.
LS3554M Per unit ..................... $4.75

Long Neck Clam (Mya arenaria).

A long neck marine clam with the foot extended.

Sh. wt. 1 lb. per 10.

LS3608M Each ....................... $1.80
10 or more, each ............. $1.50

See Page 53 tor Clam Computer Software
Program.

Clam Dlssectogram. See page 53 for description.
SA9155M Set of 4 .................... $14.95

Plé ROUNDWORM

The Loligo is prepared under arrangement with
a supplier in New England. Only intact nonabraid-
ed specimens are supplied. Much care is taken
with this important specimen.

Trichinella. Adult worms. Suitable for mounting
on slides. Unit of 10. Sh. wt. 5 oz.
LS2397M Per unit ..................... $8.50

Trichinella. Rat muscle with encysted worms. Sh.
wt. 4 oz.
LS3579M Each ....................... $4.50

. Sauna???

SQUID (Loligo)

Cat. No. Size

LS1302M 12”-16" (30-40 cm) Plain
L82420M 12”-16” (30-40 cm)
LSZ421M 8”-12” (20-30 cm) Plain
LS2422M 8”-12” (20-30 cm)
LS3574M 5"-8” (13-20 cm) Plain

All of the freshwater clams listed here are
prepared in our own laboratory from clams col-
lected in Wisconsin streams. We process tons of
clams every year, selling only the best preserved
specimens in this listing.

Injection

Vascular Injection

Vascular Injection

Sh. Wt.

10 lbs/10

10 lbs.l10

7 lbs. 8 oz./10
7 lbs. 8 oz./10
4 lbs./10

(30

0'5
stsscecﬂoﬂ
GU“)E SOLD ONLV av NASCO

Student Clam Dissection Guide. Well-illustrated
51/2” x 81/2” guide designed for grades 6-10. Sh.
wt. 4 oz.

SB7320M Set of 15 .................... $7.95

FRESHWATER CLAMS (Unio or Anodonfa)

Cat. No. Size

LS1296M 5”-7” (13-18 cm)
LS1083M 4”-5-” (10-13 cm)
LS3464M 3”-4” (7.5-10 cm)

CLAM MODEL

Large 18” x 24”, three-dimensional model shows
body structures, biological functions, and general
anatomy in great detail. Organ systems are clearly
demonstrated. Model makes up a coordinated
program for anatomy study, and with each com-
prehensive lesson plan provides for both class
and individual study. This lightweight, full-color
model is sturdily constructed for years of use.
SA8091 M ............................ $65.00

Sh. Wt. Each
7 lbs. 8 oz./10 $1.00
3 lbs. 2 oz./10 $ .65
2 lbs.l10

3 .50

MOLLUSCA COMPARISON

One mature specimen of edible snail (Helix sp.),
Chiton (species as available), marine mussel
(Mytilus sp.), squid (Loligo sp.), and the tusk shell
(Dentalium sp. — includes animal and shell).
SB7225M ............................ $19.20

 




EARTHWORM
, t ‘

See Page 53 for Earthworm Somputer
Software Program.

EARTHWORMS (Lumbricus terrestris)

Cat. No. Size

LS2407M 9”-12” (23-30 cm)
LS1079M 7”-9" (18-23 cm)
LS1289M Large Mature
Chromic injected Earthworms are excellent for
use when detailed study of Earthworm cell struc-
ture is required.

Plain
Plain

. o, gtyMz M-i my row “:1: Ian
unhyzzgh ‘thoei ”Mr “lessees
Mﬂbﬂtmﬂﬂh

ANNELID (SEGMENTED WORM)
COMPARISON

One each mature specimen of earthworm (Lum-
bricus sp.), Calcareous tube worm (Spirorbis sp.),
leech (Haemopis sp.), and scaleworm (Lepidonotu
sp.).

$87221 M ............................ $19.20

SANDWORM

Injection

Chromic

10 Units
Unit or More,
of 10 Each Unit

$3.15 $3.00

5 oz.l10 $2.80 $2.65

5 oz.l10 $3.80 $3.50
Plain Earthworms are the standard for the in-
dustry for dissection by beginning as well as ad-
vanced students.

Sh. Wt.
5 oz./10

 

 

 

EARTHWORM DISSECTOGRAM
Dissectograms show and tell students exactly
what to do and how to do it throughout the en-
tire earthworm dissection. Set consists of 4 large,
dramatic, full-color, instructional visuals that are
designed to be placed on the dissection table,
which permits students to proceed confidently
without wasting time or making mistakes. When
the dissection is completed, the dissectograms
remain for review, discussion, and extended
study.

SA9156M Set of 4 .................... $14.95

Sandworm or clam worm (Nereis). Large, 8” (20

cm) and over. Sh. wt. 10 oz. per 10.

LS1292M Each ....................... $1.05
10 or more, each ............. $ .95
100 or more, each ............ $ .90

Sandworm or clam worm (Nereis). Medium 6”-8”

(15-20 cm). Sh. wt. 10 oz. per 10.

LS2408M Each ....................... $ .85
10 or more, each ............. $ .80
100 or more, each ............ $ .75

Sea Mouse (Aphrodite). Large marine worm with

iridescent hairlike setae. Sh. wt. 8 02. each.

LS3542M Each ....................... $6.50
10 or more, each ............. $6.10

60

s . ,
NASSCEQ‘A'ION S( loom v av NAbCO
mm; DE

Student Earthworm Dissection Guide. Well-
illustrated 51/2 ” x 81/2” guide designed for grades
6-10. Sh. wt. 7 oz. per set.

SB?316M Set of 15 .................... $7.95

Include some latex injected Earthworms with
your order. Students can easily trace the cir-
culatory system which has been identified with
colored latex.

Circulatory System Injected Earthworm (Lum-

bricus terrestris). Large. Sh. wt. 8 oz. per 10.

LS1081M Each ....................... $2.25
10 or more, each ............. $2.00

 

EARTHWORM MODEL

Large 18” x 24”, three-dimensional model shows
body structures, biological functions, and general
anatomy in great detail. Organ systems are clearly
demonstrated. Model makes up a coordinated
program for anatomy study, and with each com-
prehensive lesson plan provides for both class
and individual study. This lightweight, full-color
model is sturdily constructed for years of use.
SA8092M ............................ $65.00

W“.
p:

1M I1 ﬁMﬁz‘.

.. Emu“. 'ﬁ “ 5| :5
HORSE LEECH

Giant horse leech (Haemopis grandis). Large,
plain injected and extended. Unit of 10. Sh. wt.
0 oz.

L82409M Per unit. . .. ................. $8.50

Leech. Small pond variety. Unit of 10. Sh. wt. 10

oz.
LS1293M Per unit ..................... $2.60

 




 

 
 
   
    

Northern crayfish are preserved from local collec-
tions, color injected in our lab, and measured ac-
curately. We give you the benefit of the doubt on
sizes. Southerns, for those preferring a larger
specimen, are prepared under our direct supervi-
sion in a facility near New Orleans.

  

CRAYFISH

See Page 53 for Craytlsh Computer
Software Program.

60

SOLD ONLV BY NASCO

Student Crayfish Dissection Guide. Well-
illustrated 51/2” x 81/2” guide for grades 6-10.
SB7315M Set of 15 .................... $7.95
Crayfish Dissectogram. See page 53 for descrip-
tion. Sh. wt. 12 oz.

SA9152M Set of 4 .................... $14.95
Crayfish, northern (Cambarus). Female with eggs.
Sh. wt. 2 02. each.

 

LS1317M Each ....................... $2.30

CRAYFISH (Cambarus) 10 or 100 or

More, More,

Cat. No. Size Injection Sh. Wt. Each Each Each
LS2425M 31/2”-5” (9-13 cm) Northern Plain 1 lb. 4 oz./1O S .48 $ .45 $ .43
L52427M 31/2”-5” (9-13 cm) Northern Single 1 lb. 4 oz./1O $ .65 $ .61 $ .59
LSZ426M 3”-31/2” (8-9 cm) Northern Plain 1 lb. 4 oz./10 $ .34 $ .29 $ .27
LS1316M 2”-3” (6-8 cm) Northern Plain 1O oz./10 $ .29 S .24 $ .22
LS1314M 4”-6” (10-15 cm) Southern Plain 1 lb. 4 oz./1O $ .60 $ .57 $ .54
LSZ428M 4”«6” (10-15 cm) Southern Single 1 lb. 14 oz.l1O $ .70 $ .65 $ .62
Southern Plain 1 lb. 4 oz./10 $ .34 $ .32 $ .30

L82952M

3”-4” (8-10 cm)

 
 
  
 
 
  

  

H;-~7 ~ “ rm
ed) ' '

 
 

-M“

branif";?:‘ixm;?r
Eﬂfalty shcﬂusT

 
 
   
 

CRUSTACEAN COMPARISON

One each mature specimen of edible shrimp
(Penaeus sp.), goose barnacle (Lepas sp.), fiddler
crab (Uca sp.), crayfish (Procambarus sp.), sow bug
(Oniscus sp.), and fairy shrimp (Eubranchipus sp.).
SB7222M ............................ $17.50

CRAYFISQNU~<~_~ :-

 

CRAYFISH MODEL

Large 18” x 24”, three-dimensional model shows
body structures, biological functions, and general
anatomy in great detail. Organ systems are clearly
demonstrated. Model makes up a coordinated
program for anatomy study, and with each com-
prehensive lesson plan provides for both class
and individual study. This lightweight, full-color
model is sturdily constructed for years of use.
SA8088M ............................ $65.00

The most popular specimens for teaching adaption and function as well as general anatomy.

 

Tarantula. Sh. wt. 10 oz. per 10.
LS1335M Each ....................... $3.25
10 or more, each ............. $2.95

Black widow spider (Latrodectus mactans). Adult.

Sh. wt. 10 oz. per 10.

LS1331M Each ....................... $2.00
10 or more, each ............. $1.85

Garden spider (Argiope). Unit of 10. Sh. wt. 10 oz.
L82438M Per unit ..................... $5.80

Tick, dog (Dermacentor sp.). Preserved. Usually
supplied engorged. Large. Unit of 10. Sh. wt. 10
oz.

LS3474M Per unit ..................... $3.80

    

 

Scorpion. Large. Sh. wt. 1 02. each.
LS1336M Each ....................... $1.90
10 or more, each ............. $1.75

Horseshoe crab (Limulus). Sh. wt. 10 oz. per 10.
LS1339M Each ....................... $2.15
10 or more, each ............. $1.85

Arachnida collection. One each of horseshoe
crab, scorpion, garden spider, and tick. Sh. wt. 1
lb.

LS3538M Per set ..................... $7.50

 
 

GOOSE
BARNACLE

   
 
 

 

Goose barnacle (Lepas). Unit of 10. Sh. wt. 10 oz.
LS2630M Per unit ..................... $4.90

Hermit crab (Pagurus sp.). Preserved in shell. Unit
of 10. Sh. wt. 1 lb.
LS3468M Per unit ..................... $5.60

Ostracods. Freshwater. Several dozen present.
Sh. wt. 8 oz. per vial.

LS3469M Per vial ..................... $2.75
Sow bug (Oniscus). Unit of 10. Sh. wt. 8 oz.
LS3470M Per unit ..................... $2.20

Copepods (Cyclops). Freshwater. Several dozen
present. Sh. wt. 8 oz. per vial.
LS3465M Per vial ..................... $3.20

 

Daphnia magna (water flea). Extremely large
specimen, several dozen. Sh. wt. 8 oz. per vial.
LS3466M Per vial ..................... $2.00

 

FlDDLER c -‘ ~ 8

—
Fiddler crab (Uca sp.). Preserved. Males exhibit
one large cheliped. Sh. wt. 4 oz.

LS3467M Each ....................... $1.10
10 or more, each ............. $ .95

Marine shrimp (Peneus sp.).

Sh. wt. 8 oz.

LS3615M Each ....................... $1.25
10 or more, each ............. $1.10

Rock crab (Cancer sp.).

Sh. wt. 8 oz.

LS3610M Each ....................... $2.00
10 or more, each ............. $1.60

  

CENTIPEDE
—
Centipede (Scolopendra sp.). Southern. Pre-

served, medium to large size. Unit of 10.
LS3471M Per unit .................... $13.50

 

 

MILLIPEDE

Millipede (Spirobolus sp.). Large size. Unit of 10.
LS3472M Per unit .................... $14.50

 




Cabbage butterﬂy (Pieris rapar). Only adult male
and female specimens of the cabbage butterfly
are supplied from our own collections . . . large
enough for dissection and very reasonably priced.
Adult. Unit of 10. Sh. wt. 10 oz.

LSZ448M Per unit ..................... $2.80

5 or more units, each ......... $2.60,

Cockroach (Periplaneta americana). The American
cockroach. Unit of 10. Sh. wt. 8 oz.
LS3475M Per unit ..................... $5.00

NASCO 5 CO

ISSE
télllDE

SOLD ONLY BY NASCO

Student Grasshopper Dissection Guide. Well-
illustrated 51/2” x 81/2” guide designed for grades
6-10. Set of 15. Sh. wt. 7 oz.

SB731TM Per set ..................... $7.95

See Page 53 for Grasshopper Computer
Software Program.

Y

aéaug‘g‘ﬁaﬁ
. .. ‘ 5
"’ x {If .

”‘53; ,4
.. paﬂ‘w 539‘ ,. .
of” .Wuc‘d; nysﬂ'wm, 0959‘“ , '
nous g3 ‘_
011”” *

INSECT COMPARISON

Contains one each adult specimen of the follow-
ing insect orders: Orthoptera (grasshopper),
lsoptera (termite), Coleoptera (beetle), Hemiptera
(squash bug), Homoptera (cicada), Plecoptera
(stone fly), Dermaptera(ean~ig), Lepidoptera(but-
terfly), Diptera (fly), and Hymenoptera (honeybee).
SB7224M ............................ $19.20

Purple sea urchin (Arbacia). Large. Sh. wt. 2 lbs.

14 oz. per 10.

LS1311MH Each ...................... $2.05
10 or more, each ........... $1.95

SEA URCHlN

Green sea urchin (Strongylocentrotus sp.). Large.

2” (5 cm) average. Sh. wt. 2 lbs. 14 oz. per 10.

LS2405M Each ....................... $1.90
10 or more, each ............. $1.75
100 or more, each ............ $1.60

Crickets (Gryllus assimillis). The black cricket.
Unit of 10.

LS3476M Per unit ............ . $3.25

Nasco’s Roma/ea are the standard in the industry.
No second grade specimens are packed, and both
sexes are represented in each shipment. Prepared
in Louisiana under contract . . . preserved prompt-
ly on the site with attention to detail.

Lubber grasshopper (Romalea micmptera). Large,
preservative injected. Unit of 10. Sh. wt. 10 oz.
LS1319M Per unit ..................... $2.80

10 or more units, each ........ $2.50

Lubber grasshopper (Romalea). Large, tracheal
system injected w/red latex. Unit of 10. Sh. wt. 10

oz.
L82440M Per unit ..................... $5.60
10 or more units, each ........ $5.30

 

 

, . engssadwsé

GRASSHOPPER MODEL

Large 18” x 24”, three-dimensional model shows
body structures, biological functions, and general
anatomy in great detail. Organ systems are clearly
demonstrated. Model makes up a coordinated
program for anatomy study, and with each com-
prehensive lesson plan provides for both class
and individual study. This lightweight, full-color
model is sturdily constructed for years of use.
SA8089M ............................ $65.00

Common sea cucumber (Thyone sp.). Large size.

Sh. wt. 12 02. each.

LS3478M Each ....................... $2.20
10 or more, each ............. $2.00

NORTHERN
SEA CUCUMBER
—

Northern sea cucumber (Cucumaria sp.). Sh. wt.

12 02. each.

L83479M Each ....................... $2.20
10 or more, each ............. $2.00

Lubber grasshopper (Brachystola magna). The

plains lubber grasshopper. Unit of 10. Sh. wt. 10

oz.

LS3477M Per unit ..................... $2.80
10 or more units, each ........ $2.50

Grasshoppers. Mixed species, plain, small. Mixed
grasshoppers are collected from local farm areas
. . . undefined as to species or genus, but low
priced. Though small, can be used for general
dissection and comparison of mouth parts. Unit
of 10. Sh. wt. 10 oz.
LS1321M Per unit ..................... $2.80
10 or more units, each ........ $2.60

DAMSELFLY (Ischnura sp.) NYMPH
Unit of 10.
LS3589M Per unit ..................... $3.00

DAMSELFLY (Ischnura sp.) ADULT
Unit of 10.
LS3590M Per unit ..................... $3.50

DRAGONFLY (Libellula sp.) NYMPH
Unit of 10.
LS3591M Per unit ..................... $4.00

DRAGONFLY (Libellula sp.) ADULT
Unit of 10.
LS3592M Per unit ..................... $7.50

 

GRASSHOPPER DISSECTOGRAM

Dissectograms show and tell students exactly
what to do and how to do it throughout the entire
grasshopper dissection. Set consists of 4 large,
dramatic, full-color, instructional visuals that are
designed to be placed on the dissection table,
which permits students to proceed confidently
without wasting time or making mistakes. When
the dissection is completed, the dissectograms re-
main for review, discussion, and extended study.
SA9153M Set of 4 .................... $14.95

Sand dollar (Echinarachnius sp.).

1”-3” in diameter. Unit of 10. Sh. wt. 1 lb.

LS3607M Per unit ..................... $5.25
10 or more units, each ........ $4.75

BRITTLE
STAR

Brittle star. 2”-4” (5-10 cm). Sh. wt. 2 02. each.
LS1308M Each ....................... $1.70
10 or more, each ............. $1.55

 




All Asterias listed are carefully preserved in our east coast facility from selected prime quality animals
. . . all soft and distorted specimens are discarded and only the best are preserved for dissection use.

See page 53 for Starfish Computer Soft-

ware Program. 00

' sco's
tSissmnou
GUIDE

SOLD ONLY BY NASCO

Student Starfish Dissection Guide. Well-

illustrated 51/2” x 81/2” guide designed for grades '

6-10. Set of 15. Sh. wt. 4 oz. . WW “5..., ‘Eﬁﬂgﬁgz.
SB7314M Per set ..................... $7.95 . if"37.1.5.5..5150923‘9‘4 ‘
Starfish (Pisaster). Large, Pacific coast. Sh. wt. 5

. 5 _ lbs. per 10.

~st"5" . ~ LS2402M Each ....................... $1.75
_ 10 or more, each ............. $1.60

STARFISH (Asterias) 10 or 100 or
More, More,
Sh. Wt. Each Each Each

5 |bs./1O $1.20 $1.10 $1.05
5 |bs.l10 $3.25 $3.10 $2.95
4 lbs./10 $ .88 $ .80 $ .76
4 lbs.l10 $2.80 $2.70 $2.50
3 lbs./10 $ .60 $ .55 $ .49
1 lb. 8 oz./10 $ .48 $ .40 s .35

m

Cat. No. Size

LS1 074M
L52400M
LS1073M
LS1 075M
L81 305M
LS2399M

Injection
6”-8” (15-20 cm) Plain
6”-8” (15-20 cm) Single
5"-6” (13-15 cm) Plain
5”-6” (13-15 cm) Single
31/2”-5” (9-13 cm) Plain
2”-3” (5.8 cm) Plain

ECHINODERMATA COMPARISON

Mature specimens of the following: starfish
(Asterias sp.), brittle star (Ophioderma sp.), sea
cucumber (Thyone or Cucumaria sp.), sand dollar
(Echinarachnius sp.), and sea urchin (species as
available).

SB7226M ............................ $20.00

SEA SQUIR'I'

Sea squirt (Molgula). Required for the general in-
troduction of chordates. Unit of 10. Sh. wt. 10 oz.
LS1340M Per unit ..................... $6.50

w*”w¢:y}W‘ .. ~‘ ,‘5 —-
. {at =._,.V_.'§

‘° “ ‘ mas-5' 54:“ - --

Amphioxus
—

Amphioxus. Adults selected with gonads. Unit of

10. Sh. wt. 10 oz.

LS1342M Per unit ..................... $5.90
10 or more units, each ........ $5.60

 

Lampreys (Petromyzon or Entosphenus). Plain
20”-26” (50-65 cm). Sh. wt. 1 lb. each.
L82460M Each ....................... $3.60

Squalus

All dogfish specimens are embalmed through
caudal artery under pressure. Double injected
dogfish have red latex injected into arterial
system, and yellow latex injected into the hepatic
portal system from the spiral valve to the liver. Tri-
ple injected dogfish, in addition to the red and
yellow, have blue latex injected into the systemic
veins. Ideal size for dissection, sexually mature.

All squalus supplied by Nasco are degreased for
easier handling.

Laboratory Anatomy of the Shark.

By Laurence Ashley and Robert Chiasson.
Manual is designed to be a self-teaching
laboratory dissection guide for junior high, senior
high, and college anatomy courses. Sh. wt. 10 oz.
SB7607M Each ...................... $13.50

See page 55 for Shark Dissection Tray.

DOGFISH (Squalus) 10 or

Cat. No. Size

LS2472M Adult
L53585M 27” + Plain
LS3586M 27” + Double
,LS3587M 27" + Triple
LS2467M 22”-2_7” Plain
L82469M 22”-27” Double
LS2470M 22”-27” Triple
LS3575M 18”-22” Plain
LS3588M 18”-22’5’ Double
LS1348M Heads, Large 5 Long cut

Injection

Double, Pregnant

Pictorial Anatomy of the Dogfish.

By Stephen Gilbert.

A well-illustrated 81/2” x 11” guide to the anatomy
of the dogfish. 66 pages. Sh. wt. 8 oz.
SB10318M ............................ $8.95

Photo Manual and Dissection Guide of the Shark.
By Fred Bohensky.

All systems and structures are described in easy-
to-understand language, illustrated with over 60
labeled and unlabeled photographs. The large
photos allow students to see beforehand the
dissection as it should appear. Sh. wt. 10 oz.
SB7278M Each ....................... $8.95

See page 38 for Nasco-Guard® Humectant
Fluid.

100 or
More, More,
Sh. Wt. Each Each Each

5 lbs. ea. $13.90 $13.00 $11.90
4 lbs. ea. 8 7.35 $ 7.20 $ 6.85
4 lbs. ea. 3 8.95 $ 8.75 $ 8.40
4 lbs. ea. 3 9.80 $ 9.60 $ 9.20
3 lbs. ea. $ 6.35 $ 5.95 $ 5.75
3 lbs. ea. 5 7.85 $ 7.50 $ 7.10
3 lbs. ea. 3 8.70 $ 8.40 $ 8.10
2 lbs. ea. 3 3.80 $ 3.65 $ 3.50
2 lbs. ea. 3 5.25 $ 5.00 $ 4.70
1 lb. 8 02. ea. $ 4.50 $ 4.35 $ 4.20

10 or more, each ............. $3.40 Skate (Raja). Large, 12"-20” (30.50 cm), plain
preserved. Sh. wt. 2 lbs. each.
LS3480M Each ....................... $4.50

Lampreys (Petromyzon or Entosphenus). Double
10 or more, each ............. $4.10

injected, large. Sh. wt. 1 lb. each.
LS2465M Each ....................... $5.80
10 or more, each ............. $5.60

 




mmws—I-o—V. .MNMMTW .__.,,.w ., w...» .

PERCH (Perca flavescens)

Cat. No. Size

LS1 1 13M
LS1352M
L82485M
LS2484M
LS3481 M

Sh. Wt.

4 Ibs./10

2 lbs. 8 oz.l10
4 02. ea.

1 lb. 14 oz./10
1 lb.l10

Injection
9”-12” (23-30 cm) Plain
7”-9" (18-23 cm) Plain
7”-9” (18-23 cm) Single
5”-7” (13-18 cm) Plain
4”-5” (10—13 cm) Plain

Nasco processes tons of perch from the Great
Lakes every year. We prepare the finest
specimens available, both color injected and
plain, having control over all aspects of
production.

Fish Scale Study Set.

Ten each of ganoid, placoid, ctenoid, and cycloid
scales in four separate jars. Sh. wt. 1 lb.
LS3611M Per set ..................... $6.50

See page 38 for Nasco-Guard® Humectant
Fluid.

23 DIY ﬁ‘inﬁtt’fiﬂg

, I,
m: :gféffﬂvaomem _7 .

—

TROUT DEVELOPMENT

Seven distinct developmental stages of trout from
fertilized egg to medium fingerling stage.
SB13465M ........................... $22.10

assumes: DRUM
“

Freshwater drum are netted from Wisconsin’s
Lake Winnebago and are immediately processed
at Nasco’s on-shore facility. These unique
specimens are superior to yellow perch for most
dissections because they are larger and have
many unusual anatomical features.

Laboratory Anatomy of the Perch.

By Robert Chlasson.

Manual is designed to be a self-teaching
laboratory dissection guide in junior high, senior
high, and college anatomy courses. Sh. wt. 9 oz.
SA5055M Each ...................... $15.40

PERCH MODEL

Large 18” x 24”, three-dimensional model shows
body structures, biological functions, and gen-
eral anatomy in great detail. Organ systems are
clearly demonstrated. Model makes up a coor-
dinated program for anatomy study, and with
each comprehensive lesson plan provides for
both class and individual study. This lightweight,
full-color model is sturdily constructed for years
of use.

SA8090M.................-. .......... $65.00

60

SOLD ONLY BY NASCO

Student Perch Dissection Guide. Well-illustrated
51/2” x 81/2” guide designed for grades 6-10. Sh.
wt. 7 oz.

SB7313M Set of 15 .................... $7.95

See page 53 for Perch Computer Software
Program.

 

 

PERCH DISSECTOGRAM

Dissectograms show and tell students exactly
what to do and how to do it throughout the entire
perch dissection. Set consists of 4 large, dramatic,
full-color, instructional visuals that are designed
to be placed on the dissection table, which permits
students to proceed confidently without wasting
time or making mistakes. When the dissection is
completed, the dissectograms remain for review,
discussion, and extended study.

SA9154M Set of 4 .................... $14.95

FRESHWATER DRUM (Aplodinofus grunniens)

Cat. No. Size
L52958M
LS2959M
LS3482M

Injection

9”-12” (23-30 cm) Plain
9”-12” (23-30 cm) Single
9"-12” (23-30 cm) Double

BIOLOGY AND FUNCTIONAL ANATOMY OF
THE FRESHWATER DRUM

By Calvin R. Fremling, Winona State University.
48 page lab manual. Sh. wt. 8 oz.

SA9941M Each ....................... $5.95

Student Drum Dissection Guide. Well-
illustrated, 81/2” x 11” guide for grades 6-12.
$317219M Set of 15 .................. $12.95

Sh. Wt. Each

5 lbs.l10 $1.90
5 Ibs./10 $3.40
5 lbs./10 $4.50

910L882 3548008
0N3? I m"
Tl .
FUX‘QATOMY . -
as
W
mes 053..

 




  

 
    

Nasco is a major supplier of preserved frogs, and
has control over all aspects of production of this
most popular of all dissection specimens. We are
in direct contact with collectors around the world
to ensure a continuous supply for the educational
community.

Single injected grass frogs have red latex injected
into the arterial system. Double injected grass
frogs, in addition to the red in the arterial system,
have blue latex injected into the systemic veins
which often include the portal veins. Triple in-
jected grass frogs have, in addition to the above,
the added advantage of having yellow latex in-
jected into the portal veins via the femoral vein.

See page 38 for Nasco-Guard® Humectant
Fluid.

 

Preserved bullfrogs are a specialty item at Nasco
and we maintain our own collection operation in
the South. Processed in odorless Nasco-Guard®,
bullfrogs are the ultimate dissection specimen of
the amphibian class.

Single injected bullfrogs have red latex injected
into the arterial system. Double injected bull-
frogs, in addition to the red, have blue latex in-
jected into the venous system via a lateral ab-
dominal vein filling the venous system often in-
cluding the portal vein. Triple injected bullfrogs,
in addition to the above, have yellow latex in-
jected into the portal system via the femoral vein.

 

 

 

FROG DEVELOPMENT

Includes the following stages: several eggs, three
sizes of tadpoles including 2-leg tadpole and 4-leg
tadpole, and a young adult frog. Species as
available.

SB7230M ............................ $19.20

GRASS FROGS (Rana sp.)

 

   
     

    

10 or 100 or
More, More,
Cat. No. Size Injection Sh. Wt. Each Each Each
L82492M 41/2" (12 cm) Av. Plain 3 lbs. 12 oz.l10 $2.84 $2.64 $2.56
LS2494M 41/2" (12 cm) Av. Single 3 lbs. 12 oz.l10 $3.04 $2.89 $2.76
LSZ496M 41/2" (12 cm) Av. Double 3 lbs. 12 oz.l10 $3.44 $3.29 $3.13
LS2497M 41/2” (12 cm) Av. Triple 3 lbs. 12 oz.l10 $3.68 $3.63 $3.38
LS1373M 31/2” (9 cm) Av. Plain 2 lbs. 8 oz.l10 $1.95 $1.84 $1.68
LS2493M 31/2” (9 cm) Av. Single 2 lbs. 8 oz.l10 $2.23 $2.12 $1.96
LS2495M 31/2” (9 cm) Av. Double 2 lbs. 8 oz.l10 $2.70 $2.55 $2.34
LS2491M 3” (8 cm) Av. Plain 1 lb. 14 02.110 $1.41 $1.34 $1.25
LS1374M 21/2” (6.5 cm) Av. Plain 1 lb. 4 oz.l10 $ .86 $ .81 $ .75
LS1375M 21/4” (6 cm) Av. ' Plain 1 lb.l10 $ .65 $ .57 $ .54
44;: . 19999‘9“ o‘g 1&2;;;M \‘y .
'2; . . “SLAM“ ‘ . (33%?1 \\
. x
\ .

 

Laboratory Anatomy of the Frog.

By Raymond Underhill.

Manual is designed to be a self-teaching lab-
oratory dissection guide for junior high, senior
high, and college anatomy courses. Sh. wt. 8 oz.
SA5056M Each ...................... $14.00

Pictorial Anatomy of the Frog.

By Stephen Gilbert.

A well-illustrated 81/2 ” x 11” guide to the anatomy
of the frog. 71 pages. Sh. wt. 10 oz.

SB10319M ............................ $8.95

See page 53 for Frog Computer Software
Program.

     

Photo Manual and Dissection Guide of the Frog.
By Fred Bohensky.

All systems and structures are described in easy-
to-understand language, illustrated with over 60
labeled and unlabeled photographs. The large
photos allow students to see beforehand the
dissection as it should appear. Sh. wt. 10 oz.
SB7608M ............................. $6.95
Student Frog Dissection Guide. Well-illustrated
51/2” x 81/2” guide designed for grades 6-10. Sh.
wt. 7 oz.

SB10258M Set of 15 ................... $7.95
Dissection of a Frog. Two sound filmstrips pro-
vide knowledge about frog anatomy and frog
dissection techniques. Sh. wt. 9 oz.

SB4090M Set of 2 sound filmstrips ..... $90.00

BULLFROGS (Rana sp.)

 

10 or 100 or

More, More,
Cat. No. Size Injection Sh. Wt. Each Each Each
L82503M 6”-7" (15-18 cm) Plain 2 lbs. ea. $8.25 $8.10 $7.95
LS1362M 6”-7” (15-18 cm) Single 2 lbs. ea. $8.40 $8.25 $8.10
LS1363M 6”-7" (15-18 cm) Double 2 lbs. ea. $8.55 $8.40 $8.25
L32509M 6”-7” (15-18 cm) Triple 2 lbs. ea. $8.98 $8.85 $8.60
LS2502M 5”-6” (13-15 cm) Plain 1 lb. ea. $5.40 $5.25 $5.10
LS1365M 5”-6” (13-15 cm) Single 1 lb. ea. $5.75 $5.60 $5.45
LS1366M 5”-6” (13-15 cm) Double 1 lb. ea. $6.15 $6.00 $5.80
LS1367M 4”-5” (10-13 cm) Plain 8 oz. ea. $3.40 $3.25 $3.10
LS1368M 4”-5” (10-13 cm) Single 8 02. ea. $3.65 $3.45 ' $3.30
LS1369M 4”-5” (10-13 cm) Double 8 oz. ea. $3.95 $3.80 $3.65

 

    

FROG MODEL

Large 18” x 24”, three-dimensional model shows
body structures, biological functions, and general
anatomy in great detail. Organ systems are clearly
demonstrated. Model makes up a coordinated
program for anatomy study, and with each com-
prehensive lesson plan provides for both class
and individual study. This lightweight, full-color
model is sturdily constructed for years of use.
SA8087M ............................ $65.00

 

FROG DISSECTOGRAM
Dissectograms show and tell students exactly
what to do and how to do it throughout the entire
frog dissection. Set consists of 4 large, dramatic,
full-color, instructional visuals that are designed
to be placed on the dissection table, which permits
students to proceed confidently without wasting
time or making mistakes. When the dissection is
completed, the dissectograms remain for review,
discussion, and extended study.

SA9151M Set of 4 .................... $14.95

 

 

   

 




TOADS

Bufo marinus. Large 4”-6” (10-15 cm) body length.

Sh. wt. 1 lb. each.

L83483M Each ....................... $3.00
10 or more, each ............. $2.85

Bufo americanus. Large, full-size specimen with
well-proportioned body. Sh. wt. 1 lb. 4 oz. per 10.
LS3484M Each ....................... $1.40

10 or more, each ; ............ $1.20

SALAMANDERS

Salamanders (Ambystoma tigrinum). Adults, plain

preserved. Sh. wt. 4 02. each.

LS2488M Each ....................... $1.15
10 or more, each ............. $1.00

MUD PUPPY (Necturus maculosus)

Cat. No. Size
LS2486M
LS1 359M
L82487M

Sh. Wt.
12 oz. ea.
12 02. ea.
12.02. ea.

Injection
10”-14” (25-36 cm) Plain
10”-14” (25-36 cm) Double
10”-14" (25-36 cm) Triple

MUD PUPPY
—

Nasco maintains its own collection system for
Necturus to insure the supply of both living and
preserved specimens. Our processing plant sup-
plies the needs of most other biological supply
companies as well as our own; but odorless
Nasco-Guard® Necturus are available only from
Nasco. This unique amphibian is available plain
or injected and Nasco’s prices are the lowest in
the industry. Double injected Necturus have red
latex injected into the arterial system, and blue
latex injected into the venous system. In triple in-
jected Necturus, yellow latex displaces the blue
latex in the portal system.

TURTLE

, Turtle species are either Chrysemys or
Pseudemys. Single injected turtles have red latex
injected into the arterial system. Double injected
turtles, in addition to the red, have blue latex in-
jected into the ventral abdominal, hepatic portal,
and renal portal vein. Triple injected turtles, in ad-
dition to the red and blue, have yellow latex in-
jected into the pre- and post-caudal veins.

See page 38 for Nasco-Guard® Humectant
Fluid.

GARTER SNAKES

Garter snake (Thamnophis). Over 24” (60 cm). Sh.

wt. 8 oz.

LS1422M Each ....................... $3.65
10 or more, each ............. $3.50

Garter snake (Thamnophis). 16”-24” (40-60 cm).

Sh. wt. 6 oz.

LS2665M Each ....................... $3.45
10 or more, each ............. $3.30

CHICKENS
EMBALMED BROILERS

Much larger than pigeons and smaller than adult
chickens. An excellent and inexpensive size for
overall dissection.

LS1 357M

8”-10” (20-25 cm)

Plain

L83486M 8”-10” (20-25 cm)

Pictorial Anatomy of the Necturus.

By Stephen Gilbert.

A well-illustrated 81/2” x 11” guide to the anatomy
of the Necturus. 47 pages. Sh. wt. 7 oz.
SB10122M ............................ $8.95

Laboratory Anatomy of the Turtle.

By Laurence Ashley.

Manual is designed to be a self-teaching
laboratory dissection guide for junior high, senior
high, and college anatomy courses. Sh. wt. 11 oz.
SB?610M Each ...................... $13.50

Double

10 02. ea.
10 02. ea.

 

T...
22'.
1 OF ‘HE
,. nATOMY -
1‘" LABORMORYWA
“i
j" J

V
[Mei ﬂ- A’OH.‘

TURTLES

Cat. No. Size

LS2660M
LS2662M
L82663M
Lszsem
LS2657M
LS3487M
Lszsssu

8”-10” (20-25 cm) Plain
8”-10" (20-25 cm)
8"-10” (20-25 cm)
8”-10" (20~25 cm) Triple
6”-8” (15-20 cm) Plain
6”-8” (15-20 cm)
4’56” (10-15 cm) Plain

.5531 ""3525532
J17 . {fb‘s‘ﬁ‘a “53$"
.1" -‘ ‘

' ‘~:-.'"
in? ..;'§4‘- ._
' 41”,
.4 a.
It ‘

I ,

K
.; -
I - > .
f . , a:
.- .1 1- . , ., :-
' .. r, f . l i- '
w » , . 4W .
. , .
,. . . .-
*5..- ’95”? .4.
év'" é
._ .

' .
_'.. ,A'. ' l.. ' '.
‘ m ‘n \‘E‘. .1 _ ' , . ‘ .
. .. 2.”. ~.' ' . . . o‘e,\;.'.-‘
’5.‘ w. .
-. .. _, -
u- l, ..
l
‘I
, .
l’l

CHICKENS 10 or

More,
Cat. No. Injection Sh. Wt. Each Each
LS3345M Plain 5 lbs. $15.95 $14.95
LS3346M Double 5 lbs. $19.25 $18.25
LS3347M Triple 5 lbs. $21.95 $20.95

Injection

Single
Double

Double

Sh. Wt.

15 lbs/10

15 lbs./10

15 lbs/10

15 lbs./10

7 lbs. 8 oz./10
7 lbs. 8 oz./10
5 lbs.l10

CHAMELEONS

Anolis sp. Common green lizard or American cha-
meleon. Plain preserved. Unit of 10. Sh. wt. 1 lb.
LS3485M Per unit .................... $10.50

CHICKEN WINGS

Feathers removed, preserved in extended posi-
tion. Set of 10 wings. Sh. wt. 3 lbs.

LS3596M Per set ..................... $9.00
10 sets or more, each ................. $8.40

 




 

 

i; . PIGEON - .

All pigeons are bought from local farmers. We
preserve them, color injecting with care. They are
outstanding dissection specimens.

 

Laboratory Anatomy oi the

ngon

RobertRChlosson
" , 2:4. f ., , -
.. ,. ,,, _. , ,‘

 

Laboratory Anatomy of the Pigeon.

By Robert Chiasson.

Manual is designed to be a self-teaching labo-
ratory dissection guide for junior high, senior
high, and college anatomy courses. Sh. wt. 13 oz.
SB7611M Each ...................... $15.40

PIGEONS

10 or
More,

SPARROW

SPARROWS

Sparrow (Passer domesticus). Sh. wt. 1 lb. 14 oz.

per 10.

LS1426M Each ....................... $1.40
10 or more, each ............. $1.30
100 or more, each ............ $1.20

Owl Pellets. Small, compact balls of fur, feathers,

and bone which have been regurgitated by an owl

after feeding. Dissection of these pellets helps

students gain'insight to predator-prey relation-

ships. Sh. wt. 2 02. each.

$39759M Each ....................... $1.80
10 or more, each ............. $1.65

Each
$5.00
$6.00
$7.00

Cat. No.

L82667M
LSZO19M
L82669M

Injection Sh. Wt.
Plain 8 02.
Double 8 oz.
Triple -8 oz.

See page 38 for Nasco-Guard® Humectant
Fluid.

TRIPLE
Arteries injected with red, veins injected with
blue, and hepatic portal system injected with
yellow colored latex.

SINGLE
Arteries injected with red colored latex.

DOUBLE
Arteries injected with red and veins injected
with blue colored latex.

RATS 10 or 100 or

More, More,
Injection Each Each Each

Plain 1 lb. ea. $3.85 $3.65 $3.45
Single 1 lb. ea. $4.60 $4.40 $4.20
Double 1 lb. ea. $5.10 $4.85 $4.55
Triple 1 lb. ea. $6.25 $5.90 $5.50
Double,

Pregnant 1 lb. 4 oz. ea.
Double 1 lb. 8 oz. ea. $5.70 $5.45 $5.25
Triple 1 lb. 8 oz. ea. $5.70 $5.50 $5.30

Cat. No. Size

LS1436M Lg., over 7” (18 cm)
L81437M Lg., over 7” (18 cm)
L51438M Lg., over 7” (18 cm)
L82523M Lg., over 7” (18 cm)
LS2823M Lg., over 7” (18 cm)

$9.45 $8.95

LS3576M
LS3577M

X-Lg., over 9” (23 cm)
X-Lg., over 9” (23 cm)

. A. .1: _ . ‘ Laboratory Anatomy of the White Rat.

and
r Dissection Guide
I r

.7 Comparative Anatomy

By Robert Chiasson. 81/2” x 11”.

Manual is designed to be a self-teaching labo-
ratory dissection guide for junior high, senior
high, and college anatomy courses. Sh. wt. 12 oz.
SA1531M Each ...................... $15.40

Atlas and Dissection Guide
for Comparative Anatomy.
By Saul Wischnitzer. 199 illustrations, 231 pages,

Photo Manual and Dissection Guide of the Rat.

By Fred Bohensky. 8V2” x 11”.

All systems and structures are described in easy-

to-understand language, illustrated with over 60

labeled and unlabeled photographs. The large

photos allow students to see beforehand the

dissection as it should appear. Paperback with

wire coil binding.

SB10270M Each ...................... $7.95
10 or more, each ............ $7.36

81/2” x 11”.

A must for the high school, college, and univer-
sity anatomy class. Contents include protochor-
dates, lamprey, dogfish shark, mud puppy
Necturus, and cat. An excellent reference for stu-
dent or teacher. Sh. wt. 1 lb. 4 oz.

881 5261 M ........................... $18.30

MICE

Mice. Plain, preserved. Sh. wt. 4 02. each.

LS1433M Each ....................... $1.65
10 or more, each ............. $1.55
100 or more, each ............ $1.40

RABBITS 10 or 100 or

More, More,
Sh. Wt. Each Each

5 lbs. ea. $15.95 $15.50
5 lbs. ea. $16.95 $16.45
5 lbs. ea. $17.95 $17.65
5 lbs. ea. $19.50 $18.95

Cat. No. Size Injection

LS2518M Large Plain
LS2519M Large Single
LSZOZOM Large Double
LS2520M Large Triple

DOGS

Laboratory Anatomy of the Rabbit.

By Charles McLaughlin.

Manual is designed to be a self-teaching labo-
ratory dissection guide for junior high, senior
high, and college anatomy courses. Sh. wt. 8 oz.
SA1532M Each ...................... $14.00

NOTE: Nasco-Guard® preserved dogs
are available. Contact
Nasco Biology Dept.

 




See Page 55 for Large Animal Dissection Tray.
Cats supplied by Nasco are obtained from
humane societies after euthanasia. Embalming is
done through the carotid artery and several spot
checks are made during the latex injections to en-
sure top quality specimens. Nasco has expanded
the cat embalming facility in Fort Atkinson,
Wisconsin, to ensure a continuous supply of
these valuable dissection animals.

Larger size cats are more readily available from
humane societies and we reflect this in our price.

CATS
Student name tags supplied with each specimen.

Cat. No. Size

LS3533M 19"-23" (50-60 cm) Plain
LS2907M 19"-23" (50-60 cm) Double
LS2506M 19"-23" (50-60 cm) Triple
LS2671M 16”-23” (50-60 cm)
L82672M 16”-23" (50-60 cm)
LS1429M 16”-19” (40-50 cm) Plain
LS2505M 16”-19” (40-50 cm) Single
LS1431M 16”-19" (40-50 cm) Double
LS2953M 14”-16” (36-40 cm) Plain
LS2892M 14”-16’~' (36-40 cm) Double
LS3363M 12"-14" (32-36 cm) Double

Injection

Double, Pregnant
Triple, Pregnant

10 or

More,

Sh. Wt. Each Each
12 lbs. ea. $20.00 $19.05
12 lbs. ea. $22.15 $21.10
12 lbs. ea. $23.70 $22.65
15 lbs. ea. $30.60 $29.60
15 lbs. ea. $31.70 $30.70
10 lbs. ea. $20.10 $19.05
10 lbs. ea. $21.10 $20.10
10 lbs. ea. $22.40 $21.40
7 lbs. ea. $18.95 $17.90
7 lbs. ea. $21.60 $20.60
6 lbs. ea. $18.00 $17.00

 

—

Cat Anatomy Slides: A Visual Guide

By Michael J. Timmons.

A series of 123 full-color slides of cat dissection
shown step-by-step with all structures clearly
labeled. Slides progress sequentially from ana-
tomical overviews to detailed close-ups. Includes
unlabeled slides for lab tests, review, and discus-
sion; and instructor’s manual with index. Sh. wt.
14 02. FOB Illinois factory.

Z11422M ........................... $175.00
Pictorial Anatomy of the Cat.

By Stephen Gilbert.

A well-illustrated 81/2” x 11” guide to the anatomy
of the cat. Revised edition. 128 pages. Sh. wt. 15 oz.
$810317M ............................ $9.95

NASCO-C—EUARD® HUMECTANT FLUID

This fluid is designed to help prevent drying of
tissue and to inhibit mold and bacterial growth
during dissection. Can also be used to flush the
body cavity of larger specimens. Nasco-
Guard® specimens immersed in this fluid can be
stored for several years. Includes instructions for
proper use.

SBfO434M 4 oz. spray bottle .......... $ 1.25
SB12631M 1 gal. bottle ............... $ 9.50

SB17218M 5 gal. pail ............ $35.85

Nasco is constantly searching for new methods and techniques to assist you and your students with
a quality dissection specimen. Skinning is done in Nasco’s lab by trained technicians. All skin is removed,
except for the paws, genitalia, and head. This Nasco exclusive service eliminates the tedious, nonproduc-
tive task of skinning the specimen, and saves students time for more detailed dissection.

Skinned cats have been thoroughly field-tested and now are in demand by anatomy teachers throughout

the country. Muscle definition on skinned cats is su
quantities have been sold to satisfied customers.

perior to conventionally embalmed specimens. Large

SKINNED CATS 1° °'

Cat. No. Size
LS3534M
LS3535M
LS3536M

19”-23” (50-60 cm) Plain
19”-23” (50-60 cm) Double
19”-23” (50-60 cm) Triple
LS3597M 19”-23” (50-60 cm)
L83598M 19”-23” (50-60 cm)

Photo Manual and Dissection Guide of the Cat.
By Fred Bohensky.

All systems and structures are described in easy-
to-understand language, illustrated with over 60
labeled and unlabeled photographs. Sh. wt. 1 lb.
SB1264M Each ....................... $7.95

Laboratory Anatomy of the Cat.

By Robert Ernest Booth.

Manual is designed to be a self-teaching
laboratory dissection guide for junior high, senior
high, and college anatomy courses. Sh. wt. 12 oz.
SA5054M Eac'n ..... , ................. $15.40

DISARTICULATED CAT SKELETON

Our disarticulated cat skeleton is prepared by a
staff of highly trained personnel who take pride
in the production of quality material. Each
specimen is immaculately cleaned and given a
plastic coating to make cleaning easy, to give a
high quality appearance, and to help retain the
natural white color of the bone.

Completely disarticulated. Bones are packed in
a 61/2” x 61/2” x 4” white cardboard box for stu-
dent study. Identification charts included. Sh. wt.
2 lbs.

LS2043M ............................ $89.00
28954M Mounted articulated cat skele-

ton. Sh. wt. 15 lbs. FOB Massachusetts
factory ............................. $264.00
28963M Articulated cat skull. Sh. wt. 1 lb.

FOB Massachusetts factory ........... $35.00

Injection

Double, Pregnant
Triple, Pregnant

More,
Sh. Wt. Each

12 lbs. ea. $23.95
12 lbs. ea. $25.50
12 lbs. ea. $26.75
15 lbs. ea. $33.10
15 lbs. $34.10

uleA (Duea ‘ ~

 

CAT DISSECTOGRAM

Dissectograms show and tell students exactly
what to do and how to do it throughout the entire
cat dissection. Set consists of 4 large, dramatic,
full-color, instructional visuals that are designed
to be placed on the dissection table, which permits
students to proceed confidently without wasting
time or making mistakes. When the dissection is
completed, the dissectograms remain for review,
discussion, and extended study.

$88805M Cat, set of 4.

Sh. wt. 13 oz ......................... $14.95

 




100 or
More,
Sh. Wt. Each

2 lbs. 8 02. ea. ‘ $4.65
2 lbs. 8 02. ea. $6.00
2 lbs. 8 02. ea. $7.05

Cat. No. Size

1.32022»!
LS1963M

Injection
13"-17” (34-44 cm) Plain
13”-17” (34-44 cm) Double
Triple

RANCH RAISED MINK
—
Nasco was the first company to offer the mink as
a dissection specimen. This well-muscled

specimen is available at an extremely low cost.
Why not try the mink in your dissection work?

Specimens are 13” to 17” (34-44 cm) long and are
completely skinned and ready for dissection.

. Asccrs

i ¥EACHEWS
cums
FOR

"ﬁrst. PIG .
51mm ‘
sec“

r-Er L PIG M
SA lTTALfSEC-TION .; ; ., ,

Fetal Pig Sagittal Section. This sagittal section
of an 11”-12” double injected fetal pig is useful
for students to observe internal organs and
vessels before starting their dissection. The
Nasco-Guard® sagittal section comes Vacu-
Packed in a clear plastic bag for use as a dem-
onstration model or it can be removed for dissec-
tion. Teacher guide included. Sh. wt. 2 lbs.

L83565M Each ....................... $6.75

PK. 1(.)1\)1r\1.
,»\.\‘2-'\i( Hi}
()i' ”H

H' Mi. PK.

Laboratory Anatomy of the Fetal Pig.

By Theron Odlaug.

Manual is designed to be a self-teaching labora-
tory dissection guide for junior high, senior high,
and college anatomy courses. Sh. wt. 11 oz.
SA1533M Each ...................... $13.45

Photo Manual and Dissection Guide

of the Fetal Pig.

By Fred Bohensky.

All systems and structures are described in easy-
to-understand language, illustrated with over 60
labeled and unlabeled photographs. The large
photos allow students to see beforehand the dis-
section as it should appear. Sh. wt. 13 oz.
$81265M Each ....................... $7.95

Pictorial Anatomy of the Fetal Pig.

By Stephen Gilbert.

A well-illustrated 81/2” x 11” guide to the anat-
omy of the fetal pig. 96 pages. Sh. wt. 11 oz.
SB10320M ............................ $8.95

1.320541“, 13"-17" (34-44 cm)

Laboratory Anatomy of the Mink.

By David Klingener.

Manual is designed to be a self-teaching labo-
ratory dissection guide for junior high, senior
high, and college anatomy courses. Sh. wt. 8 oz.
SA5609M Each .. . . .................. $13.50

Cat. No. Size

LS2525M over 12” (30+ cm) Double
LS1624M 11”-12” (28-30 cm) Plain
LS1625M 11"-12” (28-30 cm) Single
LS1626M 11”-12” (28-30 cm) Double
*LS1148M 9”-11” (23-28 cm) Plain
*LS1149M 9”-11” (23-28 cm) Single
*LS1150M 9”-11” (23-28 cm) Double
LS1621M 7”-9” (18-23 cm) Plain
L81622M 7"-9” (18-23 cm) Single
LS1623M 7"-9" (18-23 cm) Double
LS1435M 5”-7” (13-18 cm) Plain
LS3539M 4”-5’.’ (10-13 cm) Plain

FETAL PIG DISSECTOGRAM

Dissectograms show and tell students exactly
what to do and how to do it throughout the entire
pig dissection. Set consists of 4 large, dramatic,
full—color, instructional visuals that are designed
to be placed on the dissection table, which permits
students to proceed confidently without wasting
time or making mistakes. When the dissection is
completed, the dissectograms remain for review,
discussion, and extended study.

SA9157M Set of 4 .................... $14.95

Injection

 

:\ Guidv
in tha- "Emu-lion of "Ir Mink

‘rxnn-l ) 1h! .«A

Jmm-n S. Sehlrmgh

Guide to the Dissection of the Mink.

By James Schlough.

A complete dissection guide for the mink for
classes in general and vertebrate biology. Sh. wt.
12 oz.

$8849M Each ......................... $5.95

*Pig embryos are purchased from local slaughter-
houses and embalmed and injected at our Fort
Atkinson plant. The majority of pig embryos col-
lected from the slaughterhouses are 9” to 11” in
size. Please note special low prices for this size
category.

See page 38 tor rNasco-Guarcl‘9 Humectant
Fluid.

100 or
More,
Each

$7.65
$5.65
$6.15
$8.65
$3.50
$3.75
$3.85
$2.25
$2.40
$2.95
$1 .40
$1 .1 5

FETAL PIG

 

FETAL PIG MODEL

Large 18” x 24”, three-dimensional model shows

body structures, biological functions, and general
anatomy in great detail. Organ systems are clearly
demonstrated. Model makes up a coordinated
program for anatomy study, and with each com-
prehensive lesson plan provides for both class
and individual study. This lightweight, full-color
model is sturdily constructed for years of use.
SA8093M ............................ $65.00

 




 

 

 

 

J

NASCO'S NASCO’S j NASCO’S
A5 ﬂ SEEECT'O" (bibslﬁcnou NASCO’S - I Sﬁﬁicm"
u D NASCO‘S FOR FOR mssscnon NASCO’S
3;: DISSECTION THE THE 2%“ glus'gEECTION THE

”E ﬂ II GU'DE MHMMﬂLIﬂH MﬂMMﬂUﬂN . THE MﬂMMﬂllﬂN
g9?" '- gnnmw 59mm cone TERUS

NASCO'S
DISSECTION
GUIDE

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

H115) .. z

 

FOR
MﬂMMﬁLI THE
MﬂMMﬂLIﬂN
"'7 . ﬂND TRHCHEII

“immune"
d-IEBRT

Kimmie"
gtlonEY

. _ I

m U“ m 00'. M All! IN“, m co '0. "I! M"! '10 0| C0! [ﬁlm

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Fol ull Mm no, cat. on Mt! ulna no 1mm

 

 

 

 

Well-illustrated guides for individual student use. Especially designed for students in grades 6-10. Mammalian guides can be used with cow, pig, or sheep
organs. Classroom set.

Set A Set B

SB7319M Student Dissection Guide to the Mammalian Heart. SB15379M Student Dissection Guide to the Mammalian

Set of 15 .................................................... $7.95 Spinal Cord. Set of 15 ........................................ $7.95
SB7318M Student Dissection Guide to the Mammalian Eye. SB15380M Student Dissection Guide to the Mammalian Testicle.

Set of 15 .................................................... $7.95 Set of 15 .................................................... $7.95
SB11119M Student Dissection Guide to the Mammalian Kidney. SB15393M Student Dissection Guide to the Mammalian

Set of 15 .................................................... $7.95 Larynx and Trachea. Set of 15 ................................. $7.95
SB11118M Student Dissection Guide to the Mammalian Brain. SB15392M Student Dissection Guide to the Mammalian Uterus.

Set of 15 .......... ' .......................................... $7.95 Set of 15 .................................................... $7.95
SB11122M Set A of Mammalian Organ Dissection Guides. SB15430M Set B of Mammalian Organ Dissection Guides. Includes
Includes 15 guides of each of the four topics: eye, heart, kidney, 15 guides of each of the four topics: spinal cord, testicle, larynx

and brain. Sh. wt. 1 lb. 2 oz. .................................. $27.95 and trachea, and uterus. Sh. wt. 1 lb. 2 oz. ..................... $27.95

53140! r
‘ SRECF CIRCLN SET

NASOO'S
DISSEC l ION
ms

SHEEP Q SHEEP
KIDNEY EYE

“

10 or More, 100 or
Cat. No. Description . Each Each More, Each

LS1155M Sheep Heart . . $ 2.30 $ 2.20 S 2.05
LS3545M Sheep Heart in pericardium . . $ 3.80 $ 3.50 $ 3.40

LS1152M Sheep Brain with cranial
nerve roots . . $ 3.85 $ 3.75 S 3.60

LS3354M Sheep Half Brain with
cranial nerve roots . . $ 2.80 5 2.70 S 2.55

LS3570M Sheep Brain with SHEEP ORGAN, SET .
hypophysis and cranial A popular combination of sheep organs in a con-
nerve roots 4 oz. ea. 3 5.50 S 5.30 3 5.15 venient storage box. Includes induvndual storage

bags. Consists of 1 each of eye, brain, kidney, and

LS3548M Sheep Brain with dura heart. Dissection guides for each are included.
mater 5 02. ea. 8 8.15 $ 7.95 s 7.70 Sh. wt. 1 lb. 8 oz.

LS3584M Sheep Brain. LS3140M :gr set ........... h ........ :1 (1) 2:
Arteries injected. 5 02. ea. $13.00 $12.50 $11.95 se 3 or more, eac """" '

LS1439M Sheep Eyes, unit of 10 10 oz. ea. 5 3.50 s 3.30 S 3-05 PRICES [NGLUDE

LS1440M Sheep Kidney 2 02. ea. 5 2.30 $ 2.15 $ 2.00

. . 1. Nasco—Guard® preservation
LS3493M Sheep Larynx With epiglot- .
tis, vocal cords, and por- 2. lndivudual storage bag, labels

tion of trachea intact. 1 lb. ea. 5 1.95 $ 1.80 S 1.50 3' Vacu-Pac lightweight shipping containers

LS1627M Sheep Pluck. Heart, Lungs,
and Trachea. 2 lbs. ea. 8 8.20 S 6.00 S 5.70

LS3494M Sheep Testicle 1 lb. ea. $ 8.95 $ 8.75 $ 8.40

 

 

 

 

 

See Facing Page for Cow and Pig Organs.

 

 

 

 




10 or More, 100 or More,
Description . Each Each

Calf Heart with base of
aorta attached.

Cat. No.

LS1630M

$ 8.50 $ 8.00

Calf Light. Heart, Lungs,
and Trachea. Lungs
embalmed.

LS1831 M
3" 3.00
$ .69

5 lbs. ea.
LS1628M
LS2533M

Cow Eye 3 02. ea.

Cow Spinal Cord. Over 4”

section. $ 2.25

$ 8.50

2 oz. ea.

L83488M Cow Uterus. Nonpregnant. 4 lbs. ea.

LS1633M Cow Uterus. Pregnant,

plain, fetus 3"-9”. $17.90

3 3.40

5 lbs. ea.

L53532M Bull Testicles 3 lbs. ea.

COW ORGAN SET

A popular combination of cow organs in a conve-

nient storage box. Includes individual storage

bags. Consists of 1 each of brain, eye, heart, and

spinal cord. Dissection guides for each organ are

included. Sh. wt. 4 lbs.

LS3495M Per set .................... $23.50
10 sets or more, each ....... $22.40

,. 5:31-13
PRESERVED
REPRODUCTIVE
TRACT FROM COW

PRESERVED REPRODUCTIVE

TRACT FROM COW

Complete reproductive tract including ovaries,
oviducts, uterus, vagina, bladder, and external
organ. Preserved with modified Nasco-Guard®
process. Extremely lifelike. Ideal for the study of
the gross anatomy of the female reproductive
system. Can be kept in a plastic bag and used
repeatedly for long periods of time. Sh. wt. 7 lbs.
LS2798M ............................ $34.50

MAMMALIAN ANATOMY SURVEY SET
Consists of 1 each of the organs listed below.
Dissection guides for each are included. Sh. wt.
3 lbs. 8 02.

Brain (half, sheep)

Heart (with aorta, sheep)

 

 

 

Eye (cow)
Kidney (pig)

Spinal cord (cow) . . ~ ($333?» .,
L83497M Per set .................... $11.50 ‘ *

10 sets or more, each ....... $10.50

PIG ORGAN SET

A popular combination of pig organs in a conve-
nient storage box. Includes individual storage
bags. Consists of 1 each of heart, eye, kidney, and
ovary. Dissection guides for each organ are in-
cluded. Sh. wt. 4 lbs.

LS3496M Per set .................... $12.00

10 sets or more, each

100 or
More, Each

3 2.85
$ 4.90

3 .48

$ 2.00
$ 4.95
$ 5.80

5 1.31

10 or More,
Sh. Wt. Each Each

8 02. ea. $ 3.45 $ 3.15
3 lbs. ea. $ 5.50 $ 5.20

$ .60 $ .52

$ 2.30 $ 2.15
$ 5.35 $ 5.10
$ 6.20 $ 5.95

$ 1.50 $1.41

$ 3.95 $ 3.70 $ 3.50
$1 4.50 $13.40 $1 2.90

$13.00 $12.00 -
$ 2.95 $ 2.50 $ 2.25

Cat. No.

L82530M
LS3569M

L82532M .

LS3352M
LS3353M
LS3489M

LS3490M

LS3491 M
LS3492M

L83544M
LS3593M
LS3612M

Description

Pig Heart
Pig Heart in pericardium

 

Pig Eyes 1 02. ea.

Pig Kidney. Plain. 6 02. ea.

Pig Kidney. Double injected. 6 02. ea.

Pig Kidney. Triple injected. 6 02. ea. .
Bin-PRESERVED
5WINE LUNGS

Pig Ovary 1 lb. ea.

2 lbs. ea.
15 lbs. ea.

2 lbs. ea.
2 lbs./pkg.

Pig Uterus. Nonpregnant, plain.
Pig Uterus. Pregnant, plain.

Pig Stomach
Pig Intestine, 1 ft. Section

Pig Larynx w/epiglottis, vocal
cords, and portion of trachea
intact.

NASCO SOLID-DRY PRESERVED SWINE HEART

1 lb. ea. $ 2.25 $ 2.10 $ 1.85

—
NASCO DRY-PRESERVED SWINE LUNGS

An odorless, completely dry, swine heart that is
preserved to last as long as any model. The Swine
Heart is very similar to the human heart in size
and structure. The veins and arteries are easily
identified, and interior muscling and valves are
clearly visible. The heart is delivered in sectioned
form to facilitate study of internal structures. This
is an actual organ that is permanently preserved
through a special Nasco process. Sh. wt. 10 oz.
LS1955M ............................ $16.00

SWINE HEART

These swine lungs are preserved through the
Nasco Stain desiccation method . . . they are in-
flated to full size, dried, and stained to produce
a REAL specimen that is odorless and dry. Lungs
are about the consistency of Styrofoam, and it is
possible to slice thin sections of the specimen
to observe the alveoli and other structures under
a binocular microscope. Teacher guide included.
Sh. wt. 5 lbs.

LS1956M ............................ $21.00

 




Nasco is constantly searching for new techniques and preserved structures
that would assist you and your students with basic anatomy studies. These
exclusive products have been preserved by our patented Nasco-
Guard® process to allow years of continued use.

5313467

331346?
—

INDIVIDUAL Vacu-PCIC KITS
INCLUDE ALL-IN-ONE LOW PRICE

0 ECONOMY — Low pricing includes Nasco-
Guard® preservation.

CONVENIENCE — Handi-wipes, tissues,
storage bag, table cover.

EFFICIENCY — Boxes may be stacked and
labeled with student’s name and section.

INCENTIVE — Students store their own
specimens in locker, take home for dissect-
ing or test review.

SAFETY — No wet floors or rusting drums.

Individual Vacu-Pac Kits
BASIC ZOOLOGY SET
Includes one each of starfish, earthworm, cray-
fish, grasshopper, clam, perch, and grass frog.
Each kit is vacu-packed in a separate container
for student use. A reclosable plastic bag is pro-
vided for each student to use for specimen stor-
age. Handi-wipes, tissues, and absorbent mat are
included. The bags are labeled for easy student
and section identification. You are spared the
bothersome, time-consuming chore of sorting,
packaging, and distributing the various spec-
imens to each student. Sh. wt. 1 lb. 4 oz.
LS2893M Per kit ...................... $5.75
10 kits or more, each ......... $5.45
50 kits or more, each ......... $5.20

quality specimens.

Cat. No.

L82894M
L82895M
LS2896M
L52900M
L82899M
L82898M
LS2897M
L52901 M
LSZ902M
L52903M
L82905M
L52904M

PLACE YOUR ORDER
TOLL FREE
DIAL '1-800-558-9595

Cat 19”-23” (50-60 cm)

Mink 13”-17” (34-44 cm)
Rabbit 31/2-5 lb. size

Fig Embryo 12”+ (30 cm+)
Pig Embryo 11”-12” (28-30 cm)
Pig Embryo 9"-11" (23-28 cm)
Pig Embryo 7”-9” (18-23 cm)
Bullfrog 6”-7” (15-18 cm)
Bullfrog 5”-6” (13-15 cm)
Bullfrog 4”-5" (1013 cm)
Grass Frog 41/2” Av. (12 cm)
Grass Frog 31/2” Av. (9 cm)

ELBOW JOINT

Your students will have the opportunity to see firsthand the structures
associated with the front elbow joint of a cow: humerus, radius, ulna. Ar-
ticulating surfaces, synovial joint cavity, ligaments, bursae, cartilage, bones,
muscle origin, muscle insertion, and tendons are easily identified. This
teaching aid will allow students the opportunity to evaluate the type of move-
ment that is possible with a common hinge joint. Storage instructions in-
cluded. Dissection guide included. Sh. wt. 4 lbs.

L83566M ................................................... $12.95

LONGITUDINAL SECTION OF LONG BONE

A front leg bone of a cow has been sectioned longitudinally to allow the stu-
dent to view internal structure. The periosteum, solid bone layer, spongy
bone, “medullary canal, yellow bone marrow, red bone marrow, and epiphyseal
line will be evident. The head of the long bone is included in this prepara-
tion to show the articulating surface of the hyaline cartilage. Storage instruc-
tions included. Dissection guide included. Sh. wt. 1 lb.

LSB567M .................................................... $5.50

CROSS SECTION OF LONG BONE

A front leg bone of a cow has been transversely sectioned to illustrate the
concentric rings, haversian canal, yellow bone marrow, and periosteum mem-
brane. Bone is sectioned 3A” thick. 10 per package. Storage instructions in-
cluded. Dissection guide included. Sh. wt. 2 lbs.

L83568M .................................................... $5.50

RATTLESNAKE HEAD

One half rattlesnake head which has been cut sagittally. Excellent demonstra-
tion mount.

SB13466M .................................................. $20.85

SHEEP BRAIN

One half sheep brain, out sagittally. Excellent demonstration mount.
SB13467M .................................................. $18.75
SHEEP HEART

One half sheep heart, out longitudinally. Demonstrates internal anatomy.
SB13468M .................................................. $16.70

 

NW Min-vi misunnmlumn-nm

mmlnnmnwm Actonnoomww

ufeuumwrmmmus manua' film»
ummmmummyum

Twenty-one years ago Nasco introduced Nasco-Guard® Specimens. The first successful method of odor-
less, nontoxic preservation, the Nasco-Guard® process has been thoroughly proven through use of
thousands of specimens in classrooms. The process allows shipment in plastic bags, not in messy
fluids, thus saving in shipping weight. Specialists in our plant at Fort Atkinson process only the finest

INDIVIDUAL VACU-PAC KITS

Sh. Wt.

15 lbs. ea.
5 lbs. ea.
7 lbs. ea.
5 lbs. ea.
4 lbs. ea.
3 lbs. ea.
2 lbs. ea.
2 lbs. ea.
1 lb. ea.
8 02. ea.
8 oz. ea.
6 02. ea.

Description Injection

Double
Double
Double
Double
Double
Double
Double
Double
Double
Double
Double
Double

 




 

   

A ,DissectiOnlStoroge Bose
«Disecto Flex—Pod and Cleo“
, Cover Constructed of High
Polyethylene ‘ "

   
 
   
 
   
        

“ .0' Designed to Store our Basic o
3 Survey Set ‘ 5

A 1 ochn’tains Dirsectc Flex-Pad. .
gqu'fMe‘ss . ‘ . * A

o S‘napton, Clear Cover Prevents’i-éE
.. Moisture Loss ” . . -

fConsists of: L; V . , A
' ' ,1 storagelbase, Econopan,‘,Fi

’ Each ,V'Di’secto-‘Mo‘dme System

7 StUdent dissection guides
{one foreach specimen) I .
5 basic disse' ' -

 

I ‘ M-F'dﬂ r own up - . _
luv" . 4‘, F
.. MP" I ”up ‘1”.
.Anw' ““ hunt: "0“
riot. ‘

 

       
     
  

K

WNW... .
”Wu... ‘ , . ”A H" > .
. 74 rd I ’
r ("M u , ’4; I ,
’ MA ”crow $137.01.. ' '0“ \
nu"

        

.. \ . “ In» cur -
" " 1 m. ”‘1 . Pit. :'-‘"m~ “ "‘M'
3321"" In 7-.- 4: 1:31,?“ “4 u 4‘ M u: u ’” f "‘17"
“at"?! ‘ 1 “up; "‘ ‘" 1:1,." >
r: ,, ," '14:

In;

    

 

 

M

System is interlocking and iswdesigned to stack several units hig

    
    
   

- 0 save

 

 

counter space in the laboratory. The base has four cleats that look firmly ' ' '
to the cover below. s3934m Replaﬂdalpel Bl . -. .1. wt. 11;: ﬂ
Modules can be purchased in any quantity to build an entire system based Pkg. of 10 ............... . . . . ......... . ....... $3.50
on the required capacities of your class size. Modules are designed to stack $36911M Dissection Pins, 1%" long, 1/2 lb. box. Sh. wt. 11 oz_
5 high with specimens and instruments intact. Sh. wt. 3 lbs. 6 oz. Per box .......................................... $5.30
$811.665M Each . . . . ........ . . . . . . . . . ‘. . .................... $18.70 12 or more boxes, each ............................ $4.65
5 or more, each . . . ..... . ...... . . . . ............... $16.60 L81570M Zoology Survey Set. (Consists of earthworm, crayfish,
15 or more, each ............................ . . . .$14.95 clam, grasshopper, starfish, perch, grass frog.)
COMPONENTS MAY BE PURCHASED SEPARATELY Sh. wt. 1 lb.
' 10 or 50 or Per set ....................................... . . . .$3.95
more, more, 10 or more sets, each . . . . . ......................... $3.75
Cat. No. Description . Sh. Wt. Each each each 50 or more sets, each ..... . . . . .' .................... $3.55
SBt1664M Storage Base, Econopan,
Flex-Pad, Cover ‘ 1 lb. 14 oz. $6.75 $6.05 $5.45 TRAY IDENTIFICATION LABEL
$311568.“ Storage Base Only 4 07-- 51-65 51-50 51-35 Easy onleasy off label designed to identify individual student trays during
53116570“ 5000093“ Only 2 02- 51-10 51-00 5 -90 use over an extended period of time. Each label is 21/2”. The 3A" x 625"
SB11559M Flex-Pad Only 1 'b- 5 02- 51-95 51-75 31-55 roll supplies 250 individual labels. Roll comes with a dispenser.
$311670M Cover Only 2 02- 51-80 $150 51-45 $812215M ....... . ........... . ...... , ....................... $5.95
SB11671M Basic Dissection Instrument ’
Set (Consists of safety-loo
scalpel, scissors, teasing nee- See page 40 for Student Dissection Guides.

die, forceps, 6” ruler) 602. $5.20 $4.60 $4.20

ANIMAL BIOLOGY TRANSPARENCIES _

This series of transparencies deals with the anatomy of the earthworm,
crayfish, grasshopper, yellow perch, and the frog. The sixth transparency
covers the various forms of reproduction in animal life, depicting the develop-
ment of a pig from fertilization through fetal stages. Includes six overhead
transparencies with six overlays and a teacher’s guide in a heavy-duty binder.
Sh. wt. 1 lb. 5 oz.

SB16183M .................................................. $59.00

 

 

 




44.

NAsco-s I NASCO'S I NASCO'S ‘ NASCO'S
DISSECTION DISSECTION oussecnou , DISSECTION
GUIDE . GUIDE cum: i GUIDE
FOR : FOR FOR '
. THE !

.

NASCO’S

A .
sec 8 DISSECTION
GUIDE

FOR

N
DISSECTION
GUIDE

FOR

THE

EROG

DISSECTION SURVEY SETS

UNITS FOR DISSECTION

Convenient, save time and shipping costs! Preserved

jars, an important point in this era of energy conservation, and also a savings on

chore of sorting, packaging, and distributing various

extended shelf life of several years. Small specimens

LS3560

ii: .‘ﬁ' ‘-:- '-:'-:-. ‘
J's... SEES...

.I 5 '- 'I'I‘I'I -' '1. '

This series of Student Dissection Guides is well-illustrated. Each guide is 51/2” x 81/2” and
is intended to provide step-by-step instructions for the dissection of these common laboratory
specimens and mammalian organs. Each title has been classroom tested and proven to assist
the student in a self-guided instruction. Each set consists of 15 individual guides. Grades 6-10.

ANIMAL DISSECTION GUIDES

SB732OM Clam, set of 15. Sh. wt. 6 oz. ....................................... $7.95
SB7316M Earthworm, set of 15. Sh. wt. 9 oz. .................................. $7.95
SB7315M Crayfish, set of 15. Sh. wt. 9 oz. .................................... $7.95
SBT317M Grasshopper, set of 15. Sh. wt. 9 oz. ................................ $7.95
SB7314M Starfish, set of 15. Sh. wt. 6 oz ...................................... $7.95
SB7313M Perch, set of 15. Sh. wt. 9 oz. ...................................... $7.95
SB10258M Frog, set of 15. Sh. wt. 9 oz. ...................................... $7.95

COMPLETE SET OF ANIMAL DISSECTION GUIDES. Includes 15 guides for each of the seven
topics: clam, earthworm, crayfish, grasshopper, starfish, perch, and frog. Sh. wt. 2 lbs. 15 oz.

SB11121M .........................

....................................... $43.95

specimen sets are individually packaged for each student. The sets are shipped moist in vapor barrier
plastic bags, not in messy fluids. This unique Vacu-Pac process eliminates over 50% of the shipping weight incurred with the use of fluid in breakable

your total science budget. You are also spared the bothersome, time-consuming

specimens. Each set includes a reclosable plastic storage bag. The Vacu-Pac process also allows an

6 SPECIMEN SETS

ZOOLOGY SURVEY SET —

6 Medium Specimens

Set consists of 1 each of the following:
7”-9” Earthworm

3”-4” Crayfish

4”-5” Clam

31/2”-5” Starfish

5”-7” Perch

21/2”-3” Grass frog

Sh. wt. 13 oz.

LS3498M Per set ............ $3.60
10 sets or more, each ........ $3.45
50 sets or more, each ........ $3.20

7 SPECIMEN SETS

ZOOLOGY SURVEY SET —

7 Medium Specimens

Set consists of 1 each of the following:
7”-9” Earthworm

3”-4” Crayfish

4”-5” Clam

Grasshopper (Lubber)

31/2”-5” Starfish

5”-7” Perch

21/2”-3” Grass frog

Sh. wt. 13 oz.

LS1570M Per set ............ $3.95
10 sets or more, each ........ $3.75
50 sets or more, each ........ $3.55

8 SPECIMEN SETS

ZOOLOGY SURVEY SET —

8 Medium Specimens

Set consists of 1 each of the following:
1A ”-1/2 ” Scypha (Grantia)

7”-9” Earthworm,

Grasshopper (Lubber)

3”-4” Crayfish

4”-5” Clam

31/2”-5” Starfish

5”-7” Perch

21/2”-3” Grass frog

Sh. wt. 15 oz.

LS3499M Per set ............ $4.25
10 sets or more, each ........ $4.05
50 sets or more, each ........ $3.95

are in a glass vial within the Vacu-Pac plastic.

ZOOLOGY SURVEY SET —

6 Large Specimens

Set consists of 1 each of the following:
9”-12” Earthworm

31/2”-5” Crayfish

5”-6” Clam

5”-6” Starfish

7”-9” Perch

3”-4” Grass frog

Sh. wt. 1 lb. 3 oz.

LS3558M Per set ............ $5.10
10 sets or more, each ........ $4.90
50 sets or more, each ........ $4.70

ZOOLOGY SURVEY SET —

7 Large Specimens

Set consists of 1 each of the following:
9”-12” Earthworm

31/2”-5” Crayfish

5”-6” Clam

Grasshopper (Lubber)

5”-6” Starfish

7”-9” Perch

3”-4” Grass frog

Sh. wt. 1 lb. 5 oz.

LS3559M Per set ............ $5.80
10 sets or more, each ........ $5.60
50 sets or more, each ........ $5.40

ZOOLOGY SURVEY SET —

8 Large Specimens

Set consists of 1 each of the following:
1/2”-%” Scypha (Grantia)

9”-12” Earthworm

Grasshopper (Lubber)

31/2”-5” Crayfish

5”-6” Clam

5”-6” Starfish

7”-9” Perch

3”-4” Grass frog

Sh. wt. 1 lb. 7 oz.

LS3560M Per set ............ $6.30
10 sets or more, each ........ $6.20
50 sets or more, each ........ $5.90

 




ZOOLOGY SURVEY SET —

9 Medium Specimens

Set consists of 1 each of the following:
1/4 ”-1/2” Scypha (Grantia)

7”-9” Earthworm

Grasshopper (Lubber)

3”-4” Crayfish

4”-5” Clam

31/2”-5” Starfish

5”-7” Perch

21/2”-3” Grass frog

5”-7” Fetal pig

Sh. wt. 1 lb. 5 oz.

L83563M Per set . . . ..... . . . .$5.50
10 sets or more, each . . . . . . . .$5.30
50 sets or more, each . . . . . . . .$5.10

ZOOLOGY SURVEY SET —
10 Medium Specimens
Set consists of 1 each of the following:
1A: ”-1/2” Scypha (Grantia)

Hydra (Plain)

Honeybee worker *

7”-9” Earthworm

Grasshopper (Lubber)

3”-4” Crayfish

31/2”-5” Starfish

4”-5” Clam

5”-7” Perch

21/2”-3” Grass frog

Sh. wt. 1 lb. 1 oz.

L83500M Per set . . . . .$5.40
10 sets or more, each ........$5.15
50 sets or more, each . . . . .

«as, all”

”’ ""wlNV.
‘ .j'll

COLOR INJECTED SPECIMEN SURVEY SET
Set consists of 1 each of the following in in-
dividual plastic bags:

8”-12” Squid, vascular injection

9”-12” Earthworm, circulatory system injection
31/2”-5” Crayfish, arterial injection

5”-6” Starfish, vascular injection

7"-9” Perch, arterial injection

3”-4” Grass frog, arterial and venous injection
9”-11” Fetal pig, arterial and venous injection
Sh. wt. 3 lbs.

L83600M Per set .................... $19.70
5 sets or more, each ................. $18.70

PLACE YOUR. ORDER
, = TOLL FREE ~
* DlAL l—800-558~9595

. . $4.90

ZOOLOGY SURVEY SET —

9 Large Specimens

Set consists of 1 each of the following:
1/2”-%” Scypha (Grantia)

9”-12” Earthworm

Grasshopper (Lubber)

31/2”-5” Crayfish

5”-6” Clam

5”-6” Starfish

7”-9” Perch

3”-4” Grass frog

9”-11” Fetal pig

Sh. wt. 2 lbs. 13 oz.

LS3578M Per set ............$8.90
10 sets or more, each ........$8.65
50 sets or more, each . . . . . . . .$8.40

ZOOLOGY SURVEY SET -

10 Large Specimens

Set consists of 1 each of the following:
1/2”-%” Scypha (Grantia)

Budding Hydra

Honeybee worker

9”-12” Earthworm

Grasshopper (Lubber)

31/2”-5” Crayfish

5”-6” Starfish

5”-6” Clam

7”-9” Perch

3”-4” Grass frog

Sh. wt. 1 lb. 10 oz.

L83561M Per set ....... . . . . .$7.70
10 sets or more, each ........ $7.45
50 sets or more, each . . . . . . . .$7.15

‘l.

Atlas:

and
Dissection Guuln

Atlas and Dissection Guide

for Comparative Anatomy.

By Saul Wischnitzer. 199 illustrations, 231 pages,
81/2” x 11”.

A must for the high school, college, and univer-
sity anatomy class. Contents include protochor—
dates, lamprey, dogfish shark, mud puppy
Necturus, and cat. An excellent reference for stu-
dent or teacher. Sh. wt. 1 lb. 4 oz.

$315261 M ........................... $18.30

LS3561

L531 39
—

COMPARATIVE VERTEBRATE ANATOMY

SURVEY SET — 9 Specimens

A comprehensive set designed for comparative

anatomy. Packed in a convenient storage con-

tainer. Consists of 1 each of the following:

Amphioxus Bullfrog, arterial

Lamprey injected

Dogfish Turtle

Perch Pigeon

Necturus Flat

Sh. wt. 2 lbs. 7 oz.

L83139M Per set .................... $27.00
10 sets or more, each ....... $26.50
50 sets or more, each ....... $26.00

 




BULK PRESERVED ASSORTMENTS

Buy in bulk and save packing, container, and labor
costs. Shipped in easy-to-store cartons with small
specimens in separate jars. Animals are those
most commonly studied in secondary school
biology for classification, structure system com-
parison, and form evolution. A year’s supply for
each classroom size.

BULK ASSORTMENT —

5 SPECIMEN MEDIUM

31/2”-5” Starfish

3”-31/2” Crayfish

4”-5” Clam

5”-7” Perch

21/2”-3” Grass frog

Sh. wt. 5 lbs.

L83601M Set of 50 specimens

(10 of each), each set ................. $26.10
5 or more sets, each set .............. $24.10

BULK ASSORTMENT —

5 SPECIMEN LARGE

5”-6” Starfish

31/2”-5” Crayfish

5”-6” Clam

7”-9” Perch

3”-4” Grass frog

Sh. wt. 6 lbs.

LS3602M Set of 50 specimens

(10 of each), each set ................. $45.40
5 or more sets, each set .............. $41.80

BULK ASSORTMENT —

7 SPECIMEN MEDIUM

7”-9” Earthworm

31/2”-5” Starfish

3”-31/2” Crayfish

4”-5” Clam

Grasshopper (Lubber)

5”-7” Perch

21/2”-3” Grass frog

Sh. wt. 7 lbs.

LS3603M Set of 70 specimens

(10 of each), each set ................. $30.55
5 or more sets, each set .............. $28.10

BULK ASSORTMENT —

7 SPECIMEN LARGE

9”-12” Earthworm

5”-6” Starfish

31/2”-5” Crayfish

5”-6” Clam

Grasshopper (Lubber)

7”-9” Perch

3"-4” Grass frog

Sh. wt. 8 lbs.

L83604M Set of 70 specimens

(10 of each), each set ................. $52.00
5 or more sets, each set .............. $48.00

1. Nasco-Guard® preservation
2. Individual storage bag, labels

3. Vacu-Pac lightweight shipping containers

 

ANIMALS OF THE SEASHORE

A set of 12 individually bagged specimens,
Nasco-Guard® preserved, making them safe for
young hands. They can be dissected or passed
around and examined. Far superior to stiff, dry
specimens from other suppliers. The set comes
in a storage box and includes a fact sheet and
guide. The set includes one each of the following:

Block of wood showing
shipworm damage

Horseshoe crab

Chiton

Starfish

Sea urchin

Fiddler crab

Sh. wt. 2 lbs. 2 oz.

L82837M Per set .................... $16.50

Shrimp
Gooseneck
barnacle
Sea clam
Sandworm
Dogfish pup
Sand dollar

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

BULK ASSORTMENT —

10 SPECIMEN MEDIUM

1%: ”-1/2” Scypha (Grantia)

Hydra (Plain)

7”-9” Earthworm

31/2”-5” Starfish

3”-31/2” Crayfish

Grasshopper (Lubber)

Honeybee worker

4”-5” Clam

5”-7” Perch

21/2”-3” Grass frog

Sh. wt. 9 lbs.

LS3605M Set of 100 specimens

(10 of each), each set ................. $35.80
5 or more sets, each set .............. $33.00

BULK ASSORTMENT —

10 SPECIMEN LARGE

1/2”-%” Scypha (Grantia)

Hydra (Budding)

9”-12” Earthworm

5”-6” Starfish

31/2”-5” Crayfish

Grasshopper (Lubber)

Honeybee worker

5”-6” Clam

7”-9” Perch

3”-4” Grass frog

Sh. wt. 11 lbs.

LS3606M Set of 100 specimens

(10 of each), each set ................. $61.00
5 or more sets, each set .............. $56.20

 




 

is

. i 'I ”I ‘ '
'II'I III "I. a ."
I‘l'l'l'I-lII.l-l-I.III.IIIII'I-ﬁl-I-TI...I I::-I:I:I:.:-::‘:':I::I:Ii:‘<::g. 95%.“ I ' '

PRESERVED ANIMAL SURVEY SETS

All preserved animal survey sets are supplied in individual screw cap jars, but are not mounted on glass
plates. Specimens in these sets are supplied in safe, nontoxic holding fluid.

.1

l.}. I... .: III I-l I I :-:.:-I I

p

 

é

. '-

a
P’

 

 

ANIMAL SURVEY SET A
Grantia cluster (simple sycon sponge)
Chalina (finger sponge)

Spongilla (freshwater sponge)

Hydra (with and without buds)

Obe/ia hydroid (colony)

Gonionemus (hydroid medusa)

Physalia (Portuguese man-of-war)
Jellyfish (Aurelia, medusa)

Sea anemone (Metridium)

Northern coral (Astrangia)

Organ-pipe coral (Tubipora)

Planaria (freshwater flatworm)

Fascia/a (sheep liver fluke)

Taenia (dog tapeworm)

Ascaris (pig roundworm, male and female)
Ancylostoma (dog hookworm, male and female)
Trichinella (piece of infected muscle)
Starfish (Asterias)

Earthworm (Lumbricus)

Nereis (marine annelid)

Leech (large)

Sea mouse (Aphrodite)

Tube worm (Amphitrite)

Freshwater mussel (Unio)

Crayfish (Procambarus)

Perch

Sea squirt (Molgula)

Amphioxus (lancelet)

Dogfish (Squa/us)

Sh. wt. 15 lbs.

LS3547M Per set .................... $63.00

COMBINATION SURVEY SET

ANIMAL SURVEY SET B
Leucosolenia sp. (sponge)
Arbacia (sea urchin)
Cucumaria sp. (sea cucumber)
Chiton (Atlantic)

Helix (edible snail)

Limax (garden slug)

Venus (marine clam)

Scallop (Pecten)

Barnacle (Lepas or Balanus)
Squid (Lo/igo)

Fiddler crab (Uca sp.)
Centipede (Scolopendra sp.)
Millipede (Spirobolus sp.)
Horseshoe crab (Limulus)
Scorpion

Cockroach

Giant water bug (Lethocerus)
Lubber grasshopper (Roma/ea)
Ground beetle (Harpalus)
Butterfly

Moth

Freshwater catfish (lctalurus)
Sea horse (Hippocampus)
Salamander

Toad (Bufo)

Chameleon (Anolis)

Sparrow (Passer domesticus)
Pig embryo

LS3548M Per set .................... $64.00

Includes all specimens in sets A and B. This combination shows the wide range of variation found

throughout the animal kingdom. Sh. wt. 33 lbs.

L83549M ....................................

pissecnou KIT

..................................... $121 .00

.7?

 

u: ..:. .47

ARTHROPOD SURVEY SET

Class Crustacea
Crayfish (Procambarus)
Goose barnacle (Lepas)
Hermit crab (Pagurus)

Class Chilopoda
Centipede (Scolopendra)

Class Diplopoda
Millipede (Spirobolus)

Class Arachnida

Black widow spider (Latrodectus mactans)
Tarantula

Horseshoe crab (Limulus)

Scorpion

Class lnsecIa

Lubber grasshopper (Roma/ea)

Cockroach (Periplaneta)

Dragonfly (Libellula)

Sh. wt. 7 lbs.

LS3613M Per set .................... $23.00

BASIC ANIMAL KINGDOM SURVEY SET
This set consists of at least one representative
member of the major phyla.

Phylum Porifera
Grantia (simple sycon sponge)

Phylum Coelenterata
Hydra

Phylum Brachiopoda
Terebratella (common brachiopod)

Phylum Ctenophora
Sea walnut (Pleurobrachia)

Phylum Platyhelminthes
Planaria (flatworm)

Phylum Nematoda
Ascaris (pig roundworm, male and female)

Phylum Mollusca
Freshwater clam (Unio or Anodonta)
Chiton (Atlantic)

Phylum Annelida
Earthworm (Lumbricus)
Leech (common)

Phylum Arthropoda
Crayfish (Cambarus)
Lubber grasshopper (Roma/ea)

Phylum Echinodermata
Starfish (A sterias)

Phylum Chordata

Sea squirt (Molgula)

Perch

Frog (Rana sp.)

Sparrow (Passer domesticus)

Mouse

Sh. wt. 12 lbs.

LS3550M ............................ $33.00

DELUXE DISSECTION KIT

Now a complete kit is available in a package that
saves time spent in ordering, preparing lesson
plans, and distributing materials. Package con-
tains everything needed to begin lab work.

Set contains a Basic Zoology Kit with one each
of starfish, earthworm, crayfish, grasshopper,
clam, perch, and grass frog. Also includes seven
dissecting tools; magnifying glass; and Econopan
(a dissecting pan with a DISECTO FLEX-PAD for
ease in pinning or tying specimens in place); and
a book, How to Dissect, on dissecting equipment
and techniques. Sh. wt. 4 lbs.

SB7265M ............................ $28.50

ECONOMY DISSECTION KIT. Same as
337265 Deluxe Dissection Kit, but without
dissecting tools and magnifying glass. Sh. wt. 3
lbs.

SB10433M....... .................... $16.50

 




 

ELEMENTARY DISSECTING KIT

Designed for elementary, junior, and senior high
school students. Kit contains the following:
Single fold vinyl case with lining

6” chrome replacement blade scalpel

41/2” stainless steel dissecting scissors

41/2” chrome-plated forceps

Straight dissecting needle

Bent dissecting needle

Pipette

6” ruler

Sh. wt. 4 oz.

SA1127M Per kit ...................... $7.50
10 or more, per kit .................... $6.00
50 or more, per kit .................... $5.00

GENERAL BIOLOGY DISSECTING KIT

Designed for life science and biology students at

junior and senior high level. Kit contains the

following:

Deluxe single fold vinyl case with lining

No. 4 stainless steel surgical handle with No. 21
replaceable blade

51/2" stainless steel sharp/blunt scissors

5” stainless steel thumb forceps

Chrome mall-probe and seeker

Straight dissecting needle

Pipette

6” ruler

Sh. wt. 7 oz.

SB12624M Per kit ..................... $8.35
10 or more, per kit .................... $7.25
50 or more, per kit .................... $6.00

 

 

ELEMENTARY DISSECTING KIT

Same as SA1127, but kit is provided within a
semitransparent hinged case with snap cover and
insert for the seven instruments. Attractive and
reusable.

SB7839M Per kit ...................... $7.95
10 or more, per kit .................... $6.45
50 or more, per kit .................... $5.45

PLACE YOUR ORDER
TOLL FREE
DIAL 1-800-558-9595

 

 

 

BIOLOGY DISSECTING KIT
Designed for biology, advanced biology, and com-
parative anatomy students. Kit contains:
Double fold vinyl case with lining

11/2” stainless steel scalpel

11/2” stainless steel narrow blade scalpel

51/2” stainless steel sharp-blunt scissors

41/2” stainless steel iris scissors

41/2” chrome, straight, fine point forceps

41/2” chrome, curved, fine point forceps

5” chrome, straight, blunt point forceps
Straight dissecting needle

Bent dissecting needle

6” chrome probe and seeker

6" ruler

Sh. wt. 8 oz.

SA4449M Per kit ..................... $13.60
10 or more, per kit ................... $12.60
50 or more, per kit ................... $11.00

BASIC DISSECTING KIT

Designed for elementary and junior high school
students for routine dissection. Kit contains the
following:

Single fold vinyl case with lining

11/2” chrome single blade scalpel

41/2” chrome wire dissecting scissors

41/2,” chrome-plated forceps

Pipette

Straight dissecting needle

Bent dissecting needle

6” ruler

Sh. wt. 2 oz.

SB12623M Per kit ..................... $5.95
10 or more, per kit .................... $5.45
50 or more, per kit .................... $4.45

BIOLOGY DISSECTING KlT

Designed for senior high biology, ad-
vanced biology, and comparative anatomy stu-
dents. Kit is provided within a high quality,
opaque, hinged case with snap cover and com-
partments for 10 instruments. Kit contains the
following:

6” chrome replacement blade scalpel

11/2” stainless steel narrow blade scalpel

51/2” stainless steel sharp/sharp scissors

41/2” stainless steel straight iris scissors

51/2” stainless steel thumb forceps

41/2” chrome curved medium point forceps

6" chrome probe and seeker

6” ruler

Straight dissecting needle

Bent dissecting needle

Dropping pipette

6 assorted scalpel blades

SB10272M Per kit .................... $18.50
10 or more, per kit ....... '. ........... $17.00
50 or more, per kit ................... $15.00

   

 
  
  
  

 
 
  




45“ I‘D. xx-
:“iu \mwf: ‘
‘ 13* «Ga ‘" “ ’_

\

        
  
  
    
 

  

   

ye;-

g?

5w w
w >3,
I“; {Ki
1% ’

if:

2:»: ,
y
>L, 1g 4“ 4

(

   

r' ‘20:} £3???
. , , m, A f
3? $3???» 2 a?

     

  

’4

,«1‘

.7: 2..
6/ e
‘ ,,

 

 

 

 

g

. i.
1

.y’P/ﬁ’éw”

7":
7:5

212-3 “«
of???»
£2227

,é’a

   

N"
ulna-‘0
l 1 W
m
(:ih

 

      
      
   
    

 

2/)
43 -
‘ aggrﬁ-jjx

 

4

. may W";

. 1 ' " yaw-w
w,

 

 

’ Catalog 6]
1990-91, ‘

 

  
   




 




As a lab technician in our Botany Slide Department, Willie Mae
lsely uses her 42 years of experience to assure our customers
receive top-quality prepared microscope slides.

Working in our Preserved Botany Department for 45 years,
senior biologist Dewey Holt prepares attractive and
educational herbarium mounts for classroom display.

Biology/Science
Materials

Catalog 61
1 990-91

' Carolina Biological
Supply Company

Main Office and Laboratories
2700 York Road

Burlington, North Carolina‘27215
919 584-0381

Powell Laboratories Division
19355 McLoughlin Boulevard
Gladstone, Oregon 97027
503 656-1641

Burlington Telex: 574-354
Cable: Squid, Burlington, NC

 

Order from Powell Laboratories

Call Toll Free 800 547-1 733
FAX 503 656-4208

 

 

 

 

Alaska

 

 

Order from Carolina

Call Toll Free 800 334-5551

(NC customers call 800 632-1231)
FAX 919 584-3399

 

 

 

 




 

 

Ordering Information

Please give the catalog number and description of each item on your order. Indicate clearly both billing and
shipping address.

Guarantee

Carolina Biological unconditionally guarantees all of its products. All materials are sold with a 30-day
evaluation privilege. if for any reason you are not satisfied, return your purchase in original (resalable)
condition for credit, refund, or exchange (see “Returning Merchandise”).

Terms

Our terms to all recognized educational and medical institutions and full-time teachers are 30 days net
from date of invoice. Others please enclose check or money order, or use MasterCard, Visa, American
Express, Choice, or Discover. The minimum cash or credit card order is $15 for materials. Contact our
Accounting Office for information on establishing a new account.

Prices

All prices, unless otherwise specified, are f.o.b. shipping point and are subject to change without notice.
Transportation, packing materials, and containers (not returnable) are billed at cost. Quantity prices are
figured on the basis of one shipment to a single destination at one time. Quantities ordered will be prorated
and billed at the prevailing unit price or the next higher quantity price, whichever is lower. Orders will be
invoiced at prices prevailing at time of shipment. Payment must be made in US. currency.

Cultures

Customers within 200 miles of our laboratories will receive cultures via Priority Mail. Customers more than
200 miles from our laboratories will receive cultures via Air Mail. Postage and special delivery charges are
not included in our catalog prices. The expected use date should be stated and sufficient time
allowed for proper handling. If no delivery date is given, shipment will be made at once.

Chemicals

Chemicals and kits and sets containing chemicals can be sold to schools and businesses only. Orders
from individuals cannot be accepted.

Returning Merchandise

If you need to return materials for exchange or credit, notify our Customer Service Department as soon as
possible. Please do not return any material without instructions from Customer Service. Include yourorder
number and our order number on all correspondence.

Transportation

Small packages are shipped via UPS and parcel post; larger, heavier packages are sent by motor freight.
Customer’s preference is followed whenever possible. If no preference is stated, we will use our best
judgement.

Missing Merchandise

items received should be checked against the enclosed packing list. Report missing items within 7 days to
our Customer Service Department.

Shipping Damage

Stop unpacking if damaged merchandise is discovered. Save the carton, packing material, and broken
pieces. lf shipment was by UPS or parcel post, notify our Customer Service Department and we will give
you instructions for return and/or replacement. If shipment was by freight, call the freight company and
request an inspection. Forward a copy of the inspection report to Customer Service, and we will contact

you immediately concerning a replacement. Do not return damaged items unless we send you instruc-
tions.

Powell Laboratories Division

Our Powell Laboratories Division, located in Gladstone, Oregon, is prepared to serve our western
customers. Order direct by phone—Call Toll Free 800 547-1733.

© 1990 Carolina Biological Supply Company
Printed in USA
08832009008

 




 

0

“Contents

 

4 Viral Cultures
8 Living Animals
36 Cabisco® Plants
38 Living Plants
76 Aquaria and Terraria
89 Genetics
109 Animal Tissue Culture
115 Plant Tissue Culture
132 Physiology
138 Cabisco® Biotechnology
153 Preserved Animals
182 Preserved Plants
192 Skeletons

227 Biosmounts@, Entomounts@, and
Other Displays

274 Carolina Collection@—Nature Crafts
284 Anthropology

308 Microscope Slides

406 Plastomounts and Supplies
424 Cabisco Workshops®

425 NetworkCabisco®

426 Computers

458 Bioreview® Sheets

470 Biophoto® Sheets

471 Games and Puzzles

482 Books

542 Carolina Biology Readers

About the Cover:

Eggs of the freshwater snail Physa sp. were photographed at 30X with
Rheinberg illumination. To achieve a three-dimensional effect, the
microscope substage condenser was placed off center. The living egg
mass was mounted in water on a glass microscope slide and covered
with a cover glass. Broken slivers of cover glass used as bearings
prevented cohesion from crushing the eggs under the cover glass.
The photograph received Fourteenth Award in the Nikon International
Small World Competition and was used as the illustration for May in
the 1990 Nikon Small World Calendar. Photograph by Carolina
Biological photographer William R. West, FBPA.

547
549
552
589
635
653
675
681
687
748
794

795 _

844

888

894

903
1160
1208
1215
1226
1257
1259
1264
1267
1271
1275

Neil Patterson Publishers
Offprints

35mm Transparencies
Video and Audio Programs
Bioreview® Transparencies
Filmstrips

Cabisco Teleproductions®
AIDS Cabisco®

Models

Charts, Maps, and Globes
OpticArt®

Earth Science

Optical Instruments
Audiovisual Equipment and Supplies
Space Science

Apparatus

Cabisco® Physics
Microbiological Media
Diagnostics Media
Chemicals

Cabisco® Recognition
Cabisco Mathematics®
Cabisco® Sports
Elementary Audiovisuals
Elementary Science

Index

 




Molecular space-filling model of
DNA, B conformation.

Bacteriophage G DNA molecules stained with ethidium bromide and visualized by

 

Molecular space-filling model of
DNA, 2 conformation.

 

epifluorescence microscopy during gel electrophoresis. Artist’s rendering of contracted and
elongated molecules originally photographed by Tim Howard and reproduced with
permission of George Holzwarth, Department of Physics, Wake Forest University.

Viral Culture:

The ease of culturing and safety in handling
these bacteriophages and hosts facilitate their
use in teaching routine techniques commonly
employed in microbial genetics and virology.
Because coliphage suspensions and related
media are semi-perishable, please give use
dates on your orders.

Note: Customers may avoid pipetting-by-mouth pro-
cedures by using disposable sterile plastic pipets
73-6895 or the Blue Pi-Pumpft apparatus 73-6870.

 

   

      

bacteria.

Assay plates (12-1180) containing plaques of bacteriophage T2 (left) and oX174 (right) in cultures of host

Kits and Sets

12-1180 Plaque Study Plates Set. Six fully developed
assay plates produced by the agar-layer technique.
Four plates contain T-even bacteriophages (T2 and
T4r) in host E. coli B, and two plates contain minute
phage <1>X174 in E. coli C. Also includes a brief
discussion of plaque morphology, host specificity,
and genetic mutation.
Per set. $22.93

    

      

    

 

 

 

High School and
Introductory Sets

Recommended for introducing students to virulent
bacterial viruses. Knowledge of techniques in
handling bacteriophage is essential in modern
genetics and genetic engineering.

12-1150 Basic Culture Set A. 5 ml each of high
titer phages T4 and T4r with one agar culture of E.
coli B. Includes general information booklet.

Per set. $21.87

12-1160 Basic Culture Set 8. 5 ml each of high
titer phages T4r and ¢X174 with one agar culture
each of E. coli B and E. co/i C. Includes general
information booklet.

Per set. $27.50

12-4310 Plaque Demonstration Kit. Described
below.

12-4464 Coliphage Culture Kit B. Page 5.

 

      

Speed Your Order
(GILL TOLL FREE
800 334-5551

 

 

 




 

    

 

12-1200 Soil Bacteriophage Kit. For isolation and
culture. Features a pretested sample of raw soil as a
natural source for certain plaque-forming, non-
pathogenic viruses. Employing fundamental micro-
biological techniques and the materials in this kit,
bacteriophage can be isolated from its native habitat
for classroom demonstration or for student exercise.
Media and apparatus are sterile, ready for use. With
instructions.

25 g Natural Soil

Agar Slant Culture E. coli B (12-4300)

Bottle Nutrient Peptone Broth, 80 ml

4 Tubes Nutrient Peptone Broth

7 Tubes Serial Dilution Tryptone Broth, 9 ml

6 Plates Tryptone Base Layer Agar (12-4720)

6 Tubes Tryptone Soft Agar (12-4725)

Collection Vial, 4 dr. (71 -5004)

Soil Culture Vessel (71-6612)

14 Sterile Pipets, 1 ml Transfer, Disposable Plastic,

wlth Cotton Plugs (73-6040)

2 Sterile Vials, 2 dr.

Piece Filter Cloth, 2% x 2%”

2 Sterile 0.45 pm Filter Units for Syringe

Sterile Syringe, 10 ml, with Luer-Lok Tip, Plastic

Per kit. .$55.58

Plaque Demonstration Kits. The following two kits are
designed to initiate and teach handling of plaque-
forming bacteriophages. Special attention is given to
serial dilution and the production of plaques by the
agar-layer technique. Kits are suitable for individual
projects or class exercises (instructions are written for
participation by 4 students).

12-4310 Plaque Kit A. With coliphages T4 and mutant
T4r.

Agar Slant Culture E. coli B (12-4300)

Vial Coliphage T4 (104 particles/ml)

Vial Coliphage T4r (104 particles/ml)

5 ml Tube Tryptone Broth

4 Tubes Serial Dilution Tryptone Broth, 9 ml

5 Plates Tryptone Base Layer Agar (12-4720)

5 Tubes Tryptone Soft Agar (12-4725)

8 Pipets, 1 ml Transfer (73-6040)

4 Student Instructions and Worksheets

Teacher’s Manual

Per kit. .S31.35; 4 or more kits, per kit. .$29.75

12-4315 Plaque Kit B. With coliphage T2 and minute
phage ¢X174.

Agar Slant Culture E. coli B (12-4300)

Agar Slant Culture E. coli C (12-4400)

Vial Coliphage T2 (104 particles/ml)

Vial Coliphage ¢X174 (103 particles/ml)

2 Tubes Tryptone Broth, 5 ml

4 Tubes Serial Dilution Tryptone Broth, 9 ml

6 Plates Tryptone Base Layer Agar (12-4720)

6 Tubes Tryptone Soft Agar (12-4725)

10 Pipets, 1 ml Transfer (73-6040)

4 Student Instructions and Worksheets

Teacher's Manual

Per kit. $40.95; 4 or more kits, per kit. .$38.90

Coliphage Culture Kit A. With bubbler. All materials
needed to produce 150 ml of high titer coliphage of
your choice, and to determine titer by plaque count.
Each kit includes the following apparatus and media:

Bottle Culture Broth (12-4700 or 12-4701)

Tube Culture Broth, 5 ml

11 Tubes Serial Dilution Tryptone Broth (12-4710)

6 Plates Tryptone Base Layer Agar (12-4720)

6 Tubes Tryptone Soft Agar (12-4725)

Bubbler Assembly (12-4800)

General Information Booklet
Each kit also includes 3 ml coliphage, high titer, and 1
agar slant culture of E. coli host, ordered by the
following catalog number.

12-4451 Kit A with coliphage T2 and E. coli B.
12-4453 Kit A with coliphage T4 and E. coli B.
12-4454 Kit A with coliphage T4r and E. coli B.
12-4455 Kit A with coliphage T55t and E. coli B.
12-4458 Kit A with coliphage ¢X174 and E. coli C.
Per kit. .$42.87

12-4464 Coliphage Culture Kit B

Coliphage Culture Kit B. Enables students to produce
small quantities of coliphage without special aeration,
and to follow its growth cycle during one laboratory
period. We recommend this kit for four or fewer
students and suggest that different coliphages be se-
lected with two or more kits for comparison. Includes:

4 Tubes Culture Broth, 5 ml

11 Tubes Serial Dilution Tryptone Broth (12-4710)

11 Plates Tryptone Base Layer Agar (12-4720)

11 Tubes Tryptone Soft Agar (12-4725)

18 Sterile Pipets, 1 ml Transfer (73-6040)

General Information Booklet and Specific Instructions

for Use

Each kit also includes 3 ml coliphage, 104 particles/ml,
and 1 agar slant culture of Escherichia coli host,
ordered by the following catalog number.

124461 Kit B with coliphage T2 and E. coli B.

12-4463 Kit B with coliphage T4 and E. coli B.

12-4464 Kit B with coliphage T4r and E. coli B.

12-4465 Kit 8 with coliphage T53t and E. coli B.

12-4468 Kit B with coliphage ¢X174 and E. coli C. -
Per kit. .$42.00

12-4520 Genetic Complementation Culture Set. In-
cludes 5 ml each of two T4rIlA deletion mutant
coliphages (12-4529 and 12-4531) and a T4r|IB
deletion mutant (12-4533). These mutants do not
revert to the wild. Also includes fresh slants of
permissive host E. coli B and restrictive host E. coli
K12 (lambda). Can be used in studies of genetic
recombination as well as complementation.
Per set. $43.83

12-4530 Genetic Recombination Culture Set. In-
cludes 5 ml each of coliphages T4r+ (wild type
12-4545), T4rIIA (point mutant 12-4525), and T4rIIB
(point mutant 12-4526). Also includes fresh slants of
permissive host E. coli B and restrictive host E. coli
K12 (lambda). Can be used in studies of genetic
reversion as well as recombination. Not recom-
mended for studies of genetic complementation.
Per set. .$43.39

12-4540 Genetic Mapping Set. Three coliphage
T4rIIAB reference deletion mutants ideal for shortcut
mapping of T4rllA point mutations by Benzer’s spot
test method. Includes 5 ml each of 12-4537, 12-4538,
and 12-4539.

Per set. .$32.65

Our syringe filter units {73-4716 and 73-4718),
featuring a built-in prefi/ter, are ideal for clarifying and
sterilizing phage broth cultures (cell lysates). Filters
and accessories are listed in the Apparatus Section;
see index for page number.

   

Viral Culture: 5

 

12-4550 Genetic Complementation and
Recombination Spot Test Kit

12-4550 Genetic Complementation and Recombina-
tion Spot Test Kit. All materials and instructions for
(1) conducting complementation (cis-trans) spot tests
to place unknown T4rll mutations in either cistron A or
B, and for (2) conducting recombination spot tests to
determine by deletion mapping the A-segments within
which the rlIA mutations occur. Exercises are recom-
mended for an individual, a team of 2 or 3 students, or
use as a demonstration. Other students, however, can
participate when they are given sets of result plates for
personal analysis and conclusions. Results are
obtained from 4 spot test and 2 control plates. During
the course of the experimental procedure described,
up to 8 additional sets of 6 plates each can be easily
prepared for distribution to other students. Kit pro-
vides enough phage and bacteria for such duplication
of results, but the required agar plates and soft agar
must be purchased separately (12-4555). Kit includes
the following materials:
Coliphage Stock Suspensions

3 ml 1 x 108 T4rllA Known Mutant Tester

5 ml 1 x 109 T4rll Unknown Mutant No. 1

5 ml 1 x 109 Mr” Unknown Mutant No. 2

5 ml 1 x 109 T4rll Unknown Mutant No. 3

3 ml 1 x 109 T4rIIAB Reference Deletion Mutant X

3 ml 1 x 109 T4rIIAB Reference Deletion Mutant Y

3 ml 1 x 109 T4rIIAB Reference Deletion Mutant Z

Bacteria Stock Cultures
Agar Slant E. coli B (12-4300)
Agar Slant E. coli K12 (lambda) (12-4500)

Media and Glassware (Sterile)
Bottle 80 ml Nutrient Peptone Broth
3 Tubes 5 ml Broth
4 Tubes 9 ml Broth for 10-fold Dilutions
13 Tubes 9.9 ml Broth for 100-fold Dilutions
6 Plates Base Layer Agar (12-4720)
10 Tubes Soft Agar (12-4725)
Dropper Vial, 5 ml (71-6430)
6 Screw-cap Vials (Labeled for genetic crosses)
13 Pipets, 0.1 ml Glass
22 Pipets, 1 ml Glass (73-6050)
3 Pasteur Pipets, 9”
21 Spotting Rods, 5 x 150 mm Glass

Other Supplies
Wax Marker, Red
3 Bulbs for Pasteur Pipets
10 Flowsheets
10 Manuals with Worksheets

Per kit. .$103.27

12-4555 Spot Test Extender Set. For one additional
set of result plates when used in conjunction with kit
12-4550. Also suitable for T-series coliphage plaque
morphology studies. Includes 6 Tryptone Agar Base
Layer Plates (12-4720) and 6 Tryptone Soft Agar
Tubes (12-4725).

Per set. $12.65




 

 

 

 

   
 

Nuclear Polyhedrosis Virus in situ

Insect Virus Kit

12-5000 NPV-Wax Moth Kit. Excellent for studying
the effects of a virus on a living organism. Nuclear
polyhedrosis virus (NPV) attacks and kills many
insects. It is genus specific and poses no danger of
human infection. Because of its large size (1-10 pm)
and high refractivity, NPV is easily seen with a light
microscope. Living larvae of the greater wax moth
(Galleria meI/one/la) become infected when they feed
on medium containing the virus. Symptoms of infec-
tion appear in 1 to 4 days, depending upon tempera-
ture. In situ infectious units are readily seen in tissue
wet mounts. Enough material for 20 to 40 students to
complete the exercise and rear remaining healthy
larvae through the adult stage. With instructions.
Please give use date on order. Shipped from Burling—
ton. Residents of CA, ID, and HI must apply for USDA
permit to receive this material. We will supply neces-
sary information and forms.

70 Living Greater Wax Moth Larvae

500 ml Rearing Medium

NPV Culture (lyophilized)

25 ml Reconstituting Fluid

25 ml Insect Saline

20 Plastic Culture Dishes (100 x 15 mm)

20 Plastic Measuring Pipets (1 ml)

2 Plastic Measuring Spoons

20 Glass Microscope Slides and Plastic Slips

Per kit. .$43.85

The NPV culture in Kit 12-5000 may be purchased
separately and is listed under Bacu/oviruses.

12-5000 NPV-Wax Moth Kit

Cultures
Bacteriophages

Our bacteriophages are routinely and individually
tested for quality and titer. The following phages are
supplied as filtered (sterile) peptone broth suspen-
sions of high relative infective titer (109 to 1011
plaque-forming particles/ml) in screw-cap vials. Each
vial contains 5 ml and proven titer is noted on the label.

Coliphages 12-4521 through 12-4545 have been
selected especially for fundamental exercises and

research in genetic complementation (cis-trans tests) .

and recombination. Each strain except wild type T4r+
is a rapid lysis plaque morphology mutant of T4 with
the defect located within region rll (linkage group H) of
the viral genome. Please refer to map on page 6.

12-4325 Coliphage T2 (T2r+). Wild type; used most
frequently in genetic studies.
Per vial. .$8.15

12-4330 Coliphage T4 (T4r+). Wild type; less sensi-
tive to ultraviolet radiation than T2.
Per vial. .$8.15

12-4335 Coliphage T4r. Rapid lysis; nonreverting
plaque morphology mutant of T4.
Per vial. .$8.15

12-4337 Coliphage T531. Heat stable mutant of T5;
can be used with T2 for mixed infection studies.
Per vial. .$8.15

 

Cistron A

 

A3 TA4 I ASAT A6

 

    

Major segments of rll region

Representative genetic maps of the rll region of selected strains of coliphage T4 as determined by the
mapping technique devised by Seymour Benzer. The positions of deletion mutations in the cistrons are
shown as solid black areas; the approximate sites of point mutations are marked X.

Cistron B Coliphage Catalog no.
T4rllA 12-4521
T4rllA 12-4523
T4rllA 12-4525
T4rllB 12-4526
T4rllA 12-4529
T4rl|A 12-4531
T4rllB 12-4533
T4rllB 12-4534
T4rllA 12-4535
T4rllAB 12-4537
T4rllAB 12-4538
T4rllAB 12-4539
WILD‘T4+ 12-4545

 

 

 

'0‘

12-4425 Coliphage ¢X174. Minute polyhedral form,
25 nm diameter, with circular, single-stranded DNA; a
close relative of S13 phage. Good for plaque morphol-
ogy and for demonstrating the effect of cations on
phage growth.

Per vial. .$8.15

12-4428 Coliphage ssRNA Male Specific. Minute
polyhedral form, 25 nm diameter, with linear single-
stranded RNA; related to R17 phage. Specifically
infects and lyses “male” E. coli cells (Hfr, F+, or F'
strains) such as our 12-4610. (Also see item 17-
1015.) Titer supplied sufficient for routine sex deter—
mination tests. With instructions.
Per vial. .$8.15

“6 , ,
12-4440 Phage G (“Gigante”). A Virulent bacterial

virus with exceptionally large capsid (150 nm wide)
and large DNA complement (750 kbp). Its optimum
host is Bacillus megaterium PGH (12-4410). The use
of phage G DNA as a high molecular weight standard is
described in the Cabisco® Biotechnology Section of
this catalog.

Per vial. .$11.65

12-4521 Coliphage T4rllA. Point mutation in cistron A
segment 5; very low reversion rate to wild type (about
10”8) as measured by plaque formation in E. coli K12
(lambda).

Per vial. .$11.65

12-4523 Coliphage T4rllA. Point mutation in cistron A
segment 3; reversion rate to wild type about 10‘5.
Per vial. .$11.65

12-4525 Coliphage T4rllA. Point mutation in cistron A
segment 4. Reversion rate to wild type about 1055.
Per vial. .$10.45

12-4526 Coliphage T4rllB. Point mutation in cistron
B; pseudoallele of T4rllA. Reversion rate to wild type
about 10’s.

Per vial. .$10.45

12-4529 Coliphage T4rllA. Deletion mutation (narrow
range) within cistron A segment 3.
Per vial. .$11.65

12-4531 Coliphage T4rllA. Deletion mutation (narrow
range) within cistron A segment 4.
Per vial. 311.65

12-4533 Coliphage T4rllB. Deletion mutation within
cistron B.
Per vial. 311.65

12-4534 Coliphage T4rllB. Deletion mutation (broad
range) spanning all of cistron B.
Per vial. 311.65

12-4535 Coliphage T4rllA. Deletion mutation (broad
range) spanning cistron A segments 2 through 6.
Per vial. .$11.65

12-4537 Coliphage T4rllAB. Deletion mutation (broad
range) from the entire rll region (cistrons A and B).
Per vial. .$11.65

12-4538 Coliphage T4rllAB. Deletion mutation (broad
range) spanning cistron A segments 4, 5, and 6, and
all of cistron B.

Per vial. .$11.65

12-4539 Coliphage T4rllAB. Deletion mutation (broad
range) from cistron A segment 6 and all of cistron B.
Per vial. 311.65

12-4545 Coliphage T4r+. Wild type; gives about 80%
plating efficiency on restrictive host E, coli K12
(lambda) as compared with plaque formation on
permissive host E. coli B.

Per vial. $11.65

 




 

 

Q)

Antiphage Serum

12-4547 Anti-coliphage T4 Serum. Rabbit antiserum
containing antibodies specific for coliphage T4r+. An
100-fold dilution will neutralize 107 infectious virions
within five minutes at 37° C, as determined by plaque
assay. Also effective against serologically related
phages T2 and T4r. Excellent for studying the kinetics
of antibody neutralization and for inactivating un-
adsorbed phage in growth experiments. Two milliliters
of filter-sterilized antiserum pervial, with instructions.
Perishable; please give use date on order.
Per vial. .$7.55

Hosts

These bacteria are cultured on tryptone agar slants in
screw-cap tubes.

12-4300 Escherichia coli B. An optimum host organ-
ism for all T coliphages.
Per culture. .$5.65

12-4400 Escherichia coli c. An optimum host for (bx
coliphages; will also support T2 growth.
“Per culture. 35.65

“9- .
12-4410 Bacillus megaterium PGH. An optimum host

N

for bacteriophage G; culture at 30° C.
Per culture. .$5.65

124500 Escherichia coli K12. Lysogenic for col-
iphage lambda. Supports reproduction of wild type
phage T4 resulting in lysis, but T4rll mutants are
unable to form plaques on this bacterial strain.

Per culture. .$5.65

12-4600 Escherichia coli W3104. Lysogenic for
coliphage lambda. Ultraviolet radiation very effective
in prophage induction.

Per culture. .$5.65

12-4605 Escherichia coli 0600. Plaques are formed
on this strain by coliphage lambda and T-series. Good
indicator host for phage lambda released from E. coli
W3104 in studies of lysogeny.

Per culture. .$5.65

12-4610 Escherichia coli Male Strain 3300. Harbors

fertility factor (F). An excellent experimental positive

control host for male-specific coliphage, our 1 2-4428.
Per culture. .$5.65

Cultures
Baculoviruses

Baculoviruses are insect viruses of which NPV is a
prime example; they are used in biotechnology.

e‘N

12-5005 Nuclear Polyhedrosis Virus (NPV). Prop-
agated in Galleria mellone/la (greater wax moth) larvae
by the natural route of infection. The culture consists
of homogenized infected larvae, is lyophilized and
supplied with reconstituting fluid, and is like that in our
12-5000 Insect Virus Kit. Molecular biologists have
constructed transplacement plasmids carrying a for-
eign gene (cDNA) insert and the polyhedrin promoter
region of the DNA from this insect virus. Such
plasmids are powerful gene expression vectors that
facilitate the production of eukaryotic proteins in either
infected insect cells or infected larvae.

Per culture. .$20.10

Viral Cultures 1

 

 

 

 

 

 

Diagrammatic representation of bacteriophages (a) T2 intact (sheath extended), (b) T2 showing expulsion of
DNA through the central core (sheath contracted), (c) lambda intact, and (d) phi X174 intact, surface view,
double scale; T2 and lambda are drawn to the scale indicated.

Media

Carolina media are prepared from the finest ingre-
dients and are delivered sterile, ready for use.

12-4700 Tryptone Broth, Bottle. 150 ml broth com-
pounded for propagation of eitherT or (bx coliphages
in host bacteria.

Per bottle. .$2.44

124701 Nutrient Peptone Broth, Bottle. 150 ml
dextrose-enriched growth medium ideal for the prop-
agation of T-even coliphages in host E. coli B. Not
suitable for ¢x or T53t coliphages unless sterile
calcium chloride is added. This medium is used in our
phage cultures. (Please see 12-4800).

Per bottle. .$2.71

12-4710 Tryptone Broth Tubes for Serial Dilution.
Set of 11 screw-cap tubes, each containing exactly 9
ml of broth, provides for dilution series 10‘1 to 10”10
by transferring 1 ml of the virus suspension from tube
to tube. One tube for control.

Per set. .$9.40

12-4720 Tryptone Agar Base Layer Plates. Agar
concentration best for critical study of plaque mor—
phology in the agar-layer technique. Recommended
for plaque counts in titer determination. May also be
used for simple demonstration of phage action.

Per 6 plates. .3715

12-4725 Tryptone Soft Agar Tubes. Specially pre—

pared for the thin upper layer in the agar-layer

technique. Each 13 x 100 mm screw-cap tube contains

2 ml soft agar, to which 1 ml phage suspension must

be added to produce the critical agar concentration.
Per 12 tubes. .$10.58

12-4800 ,
Bubbler
Assembly

 

 

12-4728 Plaque Agar Layer Set. Six units tryptone
base-layer agar and 6 units tryptone top soft agar used
to prepare individually 615 x 100 mm plates as needed
for coliphage plaque studies. Sterile—melt and pour.
With instructions.

Per set. .$12.10

12-4730 Plaque Assay Plating Set. Contains 20
sterile petri dishes (74-1350), 20 tubes of soft agar
(12-4725), and six bottles of tryptone base-layer agar
sufficient to prepare 20 bacteriophage assay plates for
titer determinations and plaque morphology studies.
With instructions.

Per set. .$35.40

Supplies

12-4800 Bubbler Assembly. Designed for the efficient
aseptic aeration of culture medium in our 8—oz bottle
(12-4700 and 12-4701). Can also be used to aerate a
smaller volume of medium in a 20 x 150 mm testtube.
Made of hard glass tubing (5 mm 0D) and heat-
resistant rubber stoppers, with protective test tubes.
Completely heat sterilizable. Air pump not included.
Each. .$11.90

124810 Accessory Apparatus Set. For use with
Coliphage Culture Kit A (12-4451 through 12-4458).

Air Pump

Three-way Valve

Nichrome Wire lnoculating Loop

10 ft Nalgene Plastic Tubing, 5/32" bore

12 Sterile Pipets, 1 ml Plastic, with Cotton Plugs

Per set. $22.61

12-4810 Accessory
Apparatus Set

 




 

    

   

Our culture service has set new standards of quality and dependability, sparing no effort to produce
rich, clean, Clone Cultures which are always available for immediate shipment. Culture for 25
students is our basic unit; however, we accept and ship orders for a class of 12 students. Orders
should be placed for the exact number of students in the class. Quantity prices will be determined by
shipments to a single destination at one time. The exact quantity ordered will be prorated and billed at
the prevailing unit price or the next higher quantity price, whichever is lower. WE GUARANTEE sate
arrival of all living materials.

The expected use date for Cultures should be stated and sufﬁcient time be allowed for proper
handling. ll no delivery date is given, shipment will be made at once.

A complimentary copy of the booklet Carolina Protozoa and Invertebrates Manual is included with
each order of living invertebrates.

 

L 1A Chaos. Photographed with Rheinberg/oblique

L 1 Amoeba proteus, Photographed with Rheinberg/
illumination.

oblique illumination.

Living ﬁnimals

 

Protozoa

L1 Amoeba proteus. For regular class study. A.
proteus is the amoeba used almost exclusively in
general biology and zoology courses to demonstrate
amoebae structure and to study amoeboid locomo-
tion. The strain of A. proteus which we have shipped
since 1928 can be traced back to 1915.
Class of 15. .3428; 30. $4.37; 60. .$7.99;
120. .$13.95; 500. $53.32

L 1A Chaos (Pelomyxa) carolinensis. Each culture
contains a plentiful supply of paramecia to serve as
food.

Class ot15..$5.44; 30. .$5.49; 60. $10.25:
120. .$16.76

L 1H Amoeba BioKit®. For class of 30. All materials
for a large classroom culture of Amoeba, including
introductory exercises.
2 Amoeba Cultures
2 Culture Chambers
16 02 Culture Liquid
Sterilized Wheat Seed
2 Droppers
144 Microscope Slides

Per kit. .$29.02

100 Coverslips

Phosphate Buffer

Aciditied Methyl
Green

30 Student Guides

Teacher's Manual

Amoeba Review Set. A culture of Amoeba proteus
and your choice of 1 , 3, or 5 pads of Amoeba Anatomy
Bioreviewi Sheets (30 sheets/pad). With instructions.

L 1R Set with1 pad. 57.37

L 1R3 Set with 3 pads. $10.74

L 1R5 Set with 5 pads. .$13.90

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

,.
L 2 Paramecium. P. multimicronuc/eatum is gener-
ally supplied. This organism is characterized by a
single macronucleus and 3 or 4 micronuclei.

Class 0115.33.90; 30. .$4.35; 60. .$7.87;
120312.25; 500...$48.71

L 2A Paramecium caudatum. This species has a
massive macronucleus and a compact micronucleus.
Class ot15..$4.31; 30.34.37; 60.38.01;
120. 313.36; 500. 353.43

L 28 Paramecium aurelia. One of the smaller spe-
cies with a macronucleus and two small micronuclei.
Class of 15. .$4.31; 30. .$4.37; 60. .$8.01;
120. 313.36; 500. 353.43

L 20 Paramecium bursaria. An excellent example of
symbiosis. The green color of this ciliate is due to the
presence of Zooch/orel/a.
Class 0115.34.31; 30. .$4.37; 60. 38.01;
120. 313.36

L 20 Conjugating Paramecium bursaria. Two sepa-
rate cultures per unit, each containing a mating type
for conjugation. Generous quantities of paramecia in
each unit. With a dropping pipet for each culture and a
sheet of directions for producing conjugation in P.
bursaria. Mating strains courtesy of Dr. Dale Weis,
Cleveland State University, Cleveland, Ohio.
Class of 30. 38.07; 60. .$14.72; 120. 326.05

L 2E Conjugating Paramecium mullimicronucle-
atum. Two separate cultures per unit, each containing
a mating type for conjugation. Generous quantities of
paramecia in each unit. With a dropping pipet for each
culture and a sheet of directions for producing
conjugation in Paramecium multimicronuc/eatum.
Class of 30. 310.89; 60. 318.01; 120. .$32.75

L 2H Paramecium BioKit®. For a class of 30. In-
cludes all materials for a large, classroom culture of
Paramecium. With introductory laboratory exercises.

Paramecium Culture
2 Culture Chambers
16 oz Liquid Medium
2 Bags Medium Concentrate
Bottle Protosloii
Box Toothpicks
2 Medicine Droppers
144 Plastic Microscope Slides
100 Plastic Coverslips
Packet Yeast
Vial Feeding Stain
30 Student Guides
Teacher's Manual

Per kit. .$29.07

 

 

 

 

VoFor .metlng’ Protozoa
' 7{ 8855141 Protosloe Quietrng Solution A clear,
t .

12. $33 30

3 Each $3.33

 

 

 

 

 

L 1H Amoeba BioKit

L 2J Bag 01 Paramecium. For setting up a mass
culture of Paramecium in a plastic bag. Includes
plastic bag, all necessary culture supplies, quart of
pasteurized springwater, and living culture of Para-
mecium. With instructions.

Per bag..$10.64; 3bags..$30.69; 5bags..$50.74

Paramecium Review Set. A culture of Paramecium
and your choice of 1, 3, or 5 pads of Paramecium
Anatomy Biorevlew® Sheets (30 sheets/pad). Includes
instructions.

L 2R Set with 1 pad. .3717

L 2R3 Set with 3 pads. .$10.73

L 2R5 Set with 5 pads. 314.01

L 28 Symbiosis BioKit®. Fora class of 30. Demon-
strates symbiotic relationships in the classroom.

Azo/Ia Culture
Clover/Bacterium
Lichen
Paramecium bursaria Culture
Termite Culture
Box Toothpicks
3 Pairs Plastic Forceps
144 Plastic Microscope Slides
200 Plastic Coverslips
Bottle Crystal Violet Stain (0.05%)
3 Razor Knives
Bottle Protoslotv
30 Student Guides
Teacher’s Manual
Per kit. .$49.98

L 3 Euglena. E. graci/is generally supplied. It is
highly concentrated and pure in culture. This species
ships and keeps well.

Class 0115.33.97; 30. .$4.36; 60. .$7.95;
120. 312.38; 500. 347.74

L 2R3 Paramecium Review Set

Living animals 9

 

Paramecium. Photographed with Rheinberg/oblique
illumination.

L SE Euglena Phototaxis Kit. Materials and instruc-
tions for demonstrating phototaxis. Includes culture
of living E. gracilis, specimen jar with lid, and black
constructionpaper.

Per kit. .$8.83

L 3H Euglena BioKit® For a class of 30. Includes all
materials for a large, classroom culture of Euglena.
With introductory laboratory exercises.

Euglena Culture

2 Culture Chambers

16 oz Liquid Medium

2 vials Medium Concentrate

Bottle ProtosoloE

Box Toothpicks

2 Medicine Droppers

144 Plastic Microscope Slides

100 Plastic Coverslips

30 Student Guides

Teacher’s Manual

Per kit. .$27.00

L 3J Bag oi Euglena. For setting up a mass culture of
Euglena in a plastic bag. Includes plastic bag, all
necessary culture supplies, quart of pasteurized
springwater, and living culture of Euglena. With
instructions.

Per bag..$10.50; 3bags..$30.59; 5bags..$50.38

Euglena Review Set. A culture of E. graci/is and your
choice of 1, 3, or 5 pads of Euglena Anatomy
Bioreview® Sheets (30 sheets/pad). With instructions.

L 3R Setwith1 pad. .$7.19

L 3R3 Set with 3 pads. .$10.53

L 3R5 Set with 5 pads. .$13.83

L 4A Centropyxis aculeata. A shelled rhizopod of the
order Testacea.

Classoi15..$4.75; 30..$5.26; 60..$9.60;
120..$15.55

Please Note: We supply a dropping pipet with each culture
tor 25 students.

 

L 28 Symbiosis BioKit

 




 

 

10

 

L 3H Euglena BioKit

L 48 Ditflugia Iobostoma. A beautiful, shelled rhizo-
pod. The architecture of the shell and the feeding
habits make this an interesting form for study.

Class ol15..$4.23; 30. .$4.38; 60. .$8.21;
120. .$13.39

L 4C Arcella vulgaris. Secretes a shell and has
lobose pseudopodia.

Classof15..$4.23; 30..$4.38; 60..$7.86;
120..$13.39

L 40 Arcella discoides.

Class of 15. .$5.04; 30. .$5.49; 60. .$10.11§
120. .$16.23

L 5 Stentor. S. coeru/eus, the blue stentor with its
macronucleus.

Class of 15. .$4.31:
120. .$13.39

L 6 Vorticella.

Class of 15. .$4.31;
120. .$13.39

30. .$4.37; 60. .$8.02;

30. .$4.37; 60. 68.02;

L GB Carchesium*. A stalked colonial peritrichous
ciliate. Individual stalks contract independently.

Class of 15. .$5.57; 30. .$6.09; 60. .$11.17;
120. .$20.35

L 60 Epistylis=x=. A stalked peritrichous ciliate. Indi-
viduals on dichotomous noncontractile stalks.

Class 0115. .$5.57; 30. .$6.09; 60. .$11.17;
120. .$20.35

L GD Stalked Ciliate. Culture of our choice from one
of three ciliates (Vortice/Ia, Carchesium, or Episty/is).

Class of15..$4.30; 30..$4.38; 60..$8.02;
120..$13.39

L 7 Peranema. Free-living protozoan exemplifying
saprozoic nutrition.

Class of 15. $4.30; 30. .$4.38; 60. .$8.02;
120. .$13.39

L 8 Chilomonas. This tiny flagellate is one of the chief
food organisms of many other protozoa, particularly
Amoeba proteus, as well as numerous invertebrates.

Class of15..$4.30; 30. .$4.38; 60. .$8.02;
120. .$13.39

L 9 Colpidium striatum. A small ciliate which is
easily cultured in large numbers in simple media. It is
one of the chief food organisms for many other
protozoa.

Class 0115.84.30; 30. .$4.38; 60. .$8.02;
120. $13.39

L BA Tetrahymena pyriformis. This small ubiquitous
ciliate is one of the chief foods of many other protozoa.

Class of15..$4.30; 30..$4.38; 60..$8.02;
120..$13.39

*Since shipments are dependent upon collecting conditions, substitu-
tions may be necessary among these two ciliates. We cannot guarantee
shipment of both forms on any one order.

Corolino Biological Supply Company

 

L 48 Diff/ugia attached to filament of Spirogyra.

L QB Tetrahymena. Bacteria-free tube culture. Nutri-
tion entirely from medium.
Per culture. .$8.35

L 10 Spirostomum. Protozoan with highly developed
lengthwise myonemea.

Class 0115..$4.30; 30. .$4.38; 60. .$8.02;
120. .$13.39

L 12 Dileptus. An interesting ciliate possessing a
long proboscis with a row of cilia on its ventral
surface.

Class 0115.35.26; 30. .$5.78; 60. .$10.63;
120. .$19.35

L 13 Didinium. A voracious feeder on Paramecium
and an excellent species to illustrate the predatory
feeding habit. Several days may be required for active
didinia to appear.

Class 0115.65.44; 30. .$5.49; 60. .$10.34;
120. .$19.35

L 14 Didinium Cysts. Small vials containing large

numbers of cysts are supplied. We suggest ordering

Paramecium as food for the excysting animals. Sev-

eral days may be required for active didinia to appear.
Per vial. .$6.09

    

L 60 Stalked Ciliates. Photographed with Rheinberg/
oblique illumination.

 

L 14 Didinium Cysts

 

L 5 Stentor. Photographed with Rheinberg/oblique
illumination.

L 15 Actinosphaerium. A. nuc/eofi/um. The ecto-
plasm is. made up of one or more layers of large
vacuoles; the endoplasm is made up of many small
vacuoles.

Class 0115.64.30; 30. .5438; 60. $8.02;
120. .$13.39

L 20 Euplotes. An interesting ciliated protozoan with
a bandlike macronucleus and regionally grouped cirri.

Class of15..$4.30; 30..$4.38; 60..$8.02;
120..$13.39

L 22 Blepharisma. Two interesting features are well
studied in this rose-colored ciliate: the effect of light on
the pigmentation and the normal occurrence of giants.

Class 0115..$4.30; 30. $4.38; 60. $8.02;
120. .$13.39

L 25A Protozoan Mixture. A single culture containing
Amoeba, Paramecium, Chi/amonas, Stentor, Eugle-
na, and Volvox.

Class of 15. .$5.71;
120. .$17.76

30. $5.88; 60. $10.69:

L 258 Pond Mixture. A single culture containing
Volvox, Hydra, Planaria (or Daphnia, our choice),
diatoms, and many unicellular plants.

Class 0115..$6.18; 30. $6.23; 60. .$11.98;
120. .$17.50

L 30 Chlamydomonas. Many stages in complete life
cycle are furnished.

Class of15..$4.22; 30..$4.29; 60..$7.86;
120..$13.12; 500..$52.30

L 35 Volvox. Large, globose, free-swimming col-
onies.

Class of 15. .$4.22; 30. .$4.29; 60. $7.86;
120. $13.12; 500. .$52.30

 

L 10 Spirosfomum. Photographed with Rheinberg/
oblique illumination.

 

L 22 Blepharisma

 




 

 

L 35 Volvox. Photographed with Rheinberg/oblique
illumination.

 

L 42 Eudorina

L 35J Bag of Volvox. For setting up a mass culture of
Volvox in a plastic bag. Includes plastic bag, quart of
culture medium, Volvox, and instructions.

Per bag. 811.23; 3 bags. 832.00; 5 bags. 851.69

Volvox Review Set. A culture of living Volvox, 2 tubes
of Alga-Gro “- Concentrate, and your choice of 1, 3, or
5 pads of Volvox Life Cycle BioreviewE Sheets (30
sheets/pad). With instructions.

L 35R Set with 1 pad. .8872

L 35R3 Set with 3 pads. 812.01

L 35R5 Set with 5 pads. 814.48

L 36 Volvox globator. Large, globose colonies with
very thick cytoplasmic connections.

Class of 15. $4.22; 30. .$4.29; 60. .$7.86;
120. $13.12

L 38 Haematococcus. Single, free-swimming cells.

Class 0115.54.22; 30. .$4.29; 60. .$7.86;
120. .$13.12

L 40 Pandorina. Free-swimming colony of 4 to 32
cells in the form of a hollow sphere.

Classoi15..$4.22; 30.84.29; 60.87.86;
120..$13.12

L 42 Eudorina. Anotherrelated colonial species char-
acterized by 16 to 32 spherical, biflagellated cells.

Class of 15. .$4.22; 30. .$4.29; 60. $7.86;
120. .$13.12

L 45 Gonium pectorale. A plate-like colonial form
composed of 4 to 32 Chlamydomonas-Iike cells.

Class ot15..$4.22; 30.84.29; 60.87.86;
120813.12

L 46 Bursaria truncatella. One of the largest ciliates
known. When fed on paramecia, the processes of
food-getting, vacuole formation, and digestion can be
studied.

Class of 15. 86.11;
120. 817.50

30. .$6.23; 60. .$11.73;

L 47 Dinotlagellates. These protozoa are of special
interest because of the cellulose envelope covering the
body and the presence of brown chromatophores.
Class 0115.84.22; 30. .$4.29; 60. 87.86;
120. 313.12

 

L 35R Volvox Review Set

 

L 46 Bursaria truncatella. Photographed with Rhein-
berg/oblique illumination.

 

Living animals 11

 

L 508 Mini-Culture Materials Set

L 50 Trichonympha and Pyrsonympha. Flagellated
protozoa living symbiotically within termites. Resi-
dents of Canada must apply for a Canadian Dept.
Agriculture permit to receive this material.

Class of 30. .$9.21; 60. .$14.80; 120. .$24.57

Culture Media
and Ingredients

Culture Media Set. Includes 5 gallons of Carolina
Springwater, 12 tubes of Alga-Gro® Concentrate, and
1 ounce each of desiccated flies, hay, sheep manure,
rice, and wheat seed. From these materials media can
be prepared for culturing a wide variety of protozoa,
other invertebrates, algae, and water molds. With
instructions.
L50A Per set..$17.13

 

Price: Each Culture. $4. 29;

Phytomonadida

15- 2000 Carteria olivieri
15 2034 Chlamydomonas moewusii (+).
15 2035 Chlamydomonas moewusil (. ).
15-2040 Chlamydomonas reinhardi (+).
15-2041 Chlamydomonas reinhardi (—).'i ‘
152160 Dunaliella 'salina. Marine.
15-2230 Eudorina (Pleudorina) calitornica.
15— 2235 Eudorina elegans. '
15- 2264 Gonium pectorale.
15— 2415 Pandorina morum.
15 2460 Platydo‘rina caudata.

, 1552475 Platymonas. Marine. .
152568 Stephanoptera..Marine. , , ,
’ 1‘5-2570 Stephanospha-era pluvialis.
1542655 Volvox auteus.

' 15.2660 VolvtIx harberi.‘
1542665 Volvox globator.’
152675 Volvox tertius. ‘-

 

 

uniulgdl Culture: for Protozo’iiogy

Please order all cultures by catalog number and genus from the follow
shipped at one time to one address. Each culture is smtable fora cla of .12 to 25 students~~~
10 or more cultures, ea. -, z

.Euglenrda
, ' 1527} , 1*.AstasIa lenga

1"..DIIIoIIageIlIda
‘ 115-3240 Amphldiniu:

 

 
   
     
 
   
 
    

 

list Prtces are for cultures

$419

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

12 Carolina Biological Supply Company

Mini-Culture Materials Set. Useful in establishing
small cultures of Amoeba, Paramecium, Euglena,
other protozoans. various algae, and Daphnia. ln-
cludes 1/4-oz bottles each of wheat seed, rice, dried
milk, egg yolk, fertilizer, sheep manure, and a bundle
of sterile hay. With instructions.

L 508 Set without springwater. .$4.24

L 5081 Set with 1 gal springwater. .$6.63

L 5035 Set with 5 gal springwater. .$11 :44

Amoeba Medium. Bottle of pasteurized springwater

and packet of preheated wheat seed. One pint is

enough for three 4" culture dishes. With instructions.
L500 pt..$3.92

L 50E qt...$5.41; 5X1 qt.. .$18.01

Euglena Medium. Bottle of pasteurized springwater
and ingredients for culturing Euglena. With instruc-
tions.

L50H qt...$5.41;
10x1 qt.. .$33.06

5x1 qt. . .$18.01;

Euglena Medium Concentrate. Enough for a gallon of
medium.
L 50J Per vial. .$4.09

Paramecium Medium. For culturing most species of

paramecia. Consists of a bottle of pasteurized spring-

water and a packet of wheat seed. With instructions.
L 50K pt.. .$3.92

L50M qt...$5.41; 5x1qt...$18.01

Protozoan Pellets. Special concentrate for culturing
paramecia and a wide variety of other protozoa. Add to
distilled water or springwater.

L50P 12..$4.14; 25..$5.13; 50..$8.76;
100..$16.57

Egg Yolk. Desiccated. For culturing Daphnia pu/ex.
L 51A oz. .$4.76; L 513 4 oz. .$14.80

Hay. For preparation of the classical hay infusion, or
for use with wheat seed as a medium for protozoa.
L 510 4 oz. .$2.90

Manure. Sheep. Often used in manure and soil-
manure decoctions for Daphnia culture.
L51F 4oz..$1.95

Rice. Polished. Often used instead of wheat in media
for protozoa.
L 51H 4 oz. .$1.70

Wheat Seed. Used in media for protozoa, turbellaria,
and oligochaetes. Preheated.
L 51M 4 oz. .$1.41

Springwater

Carolina Springwater. The time-tested springwater

we use in protozoan and algal media, and to maintain

hydra, planaria, and aquaria. Does not contain the
lethal metal ions often present in tap water.

L51R gal..$3.00; 4x1gal..$8.00;
L 51T 5-gal carboy. .$8.50

Sterilized Springwater. For use in culturing protozoa.

L51W pt..$2.90
L51X qt. .$4.38; 5x1 qt. .$15.26

Sets of Living Cultures

L 52A Flagellate Set. Includes five individually
labeled cultures of our choice selected from the

following.
Chi/omonas Gonium
Chlamydomonas Pandorina
Eudorina Peranema
Euglena Volvox
Per set, class of 15. .$16.38; 30. .$17.03;
60..$31.10; 120..$61.42

 

73-6805 Micropipet (bottom) beside a
standard pipet. This glass pipet is suit-
able for isolating protozoans. Check
Index for page number.

L 523 Mixed Flagellates. A single culture containing
our choice of five forms selected from the above list.

Class of15..$6.84; 30. .$6.97; 60. $13.24;
120. .$22.96

L 52C Sarcodina Set. Includes four individually
labeled cultures (our choice) selected from the follow-
ing.

Actinosphaerium Centropyxis
Amoeba Diff/ugia
Arce/Ia Chaos (Pe/omyxa)

Per set, class of 15. .$14.43; 30. .$14.72;
60. .$26.62; 120. .$49.87

L 520 Mixed Sarcodina. A single culture containing
our choice of three forms selected from the above list.

Class 0115.87.19; 30. .$7.37; 60. .$13.60;
120. .$23.76

L 52E Ciliate Set. Includes seven individually labeled
cultures of our choice selected from the following.

Blepharisma P. bursaria

Colpidium P. caudatum

Didinium P. multimicronuc/eatum
Dileptus Spirostomum

Eup/otes Stentor

Paramecium aure/ia Vortice/Ia

Per set, class of 15. .$24.03; 30. .$26.71;
60. .$48.96; 120. .$84.08

L 52F Mixed Ciliales. A single culture containing our
choice of five forms selected from the list above.

Class 0115.57.19; 30. .$8.47; 60. .$15.46;
120. .$28.22

L 526 “Preying” Protozoa Set. Our choice of two
forms (Bursaria, Didinium, or Chaos [Pe/omyxa])
which prey on Paramecium. Individually labeled cul-
tures contain sufficient food organisms for students to
observe the capture and ingestion process. Order L 2
Paramecium as additional food source.

Per set, class of 15. 58.33; 30. .$8.47;

60..$15.46; 120..$28.21

L 52H Protozoa Survey Set. Consists of the following
six individually labeled cultures.

Amoeba Stentor
Euglena Volvox
Paramecium Spirostomum

Per set, class of 15. .$17.70; 30. .$18.15;
60. .$30.39; 120. .$53.56

L 52J Protozoa Survey Mixture. A single culture

containing 6 representative genera. Includes a simple

dichotomous key to the genera for each student.
Class of 30. .$7.38; 60. .$13.44; 120. 523.74

WWW *1!“

 

L 52A Flagellate Set

L 52K Debris and Plankton Collection. Unidentified.
From an established pond.

Class of15..$4.35; 30. .$4.83; 60. .$8.74;
120. .$13.59

L 52L Mystery Culture. A single culture containing
three or more unidentified protozoan forms.
Class 0115.54.06; 30. 54.14; 60. S758;
120. 512.66

L 52P Protoplasmic Movement Set. While studying
protoplasmic movement, students can be taught the
proper way to make temporary slide mounts and how
to make careful light adjustments with the micro-
scope. lncludes Amoeba, Nitel/a, and E/odea, each
separately bottled and labeled.

Per set. .$18.59

Amoeba, Paramecium, and Euglena Review Set. A
separate culture of Amoeba, Paramecium, and Eugle-
na and your choice of 1 , 3, or 5 BioreviewE Sheet pads
(30 sheets/pad) for each. With instructions for cultur-
ing each form.

L 52R Set with 1 pad of each. .$19.95

L 52R3 Set with 3 pads 01 each. .$29.17

L 52R5 Set with 5 pads of each. $37.76

Carolina Deep Well Projection Slides. For use in
standard slide tray with 35mm projector. Useful for
demonstrations on protozoa, algae, plant morpholo-
gy, agglutination including blood typing, crystal
formation, and much more. See 603730 in the
Audiovisual Equipment and Supplies Section.

 

We have Laboratory Sifters designed for cleaning or
separating organisms in an aquatic fie/d collection.
Shown is 65-22226 Sifter with 65-22248 Holding
Ring. Check in Apparatus Section for comp/619 listing.

 




 

 

L 528 Cell Study BioKit

L 528 Cell Study BioKit®. For class of 30. Introduces
the cell, its basic structure, and general concept.
Includes Amoeba, Euglena, onion, Elodea, and cork,
as well as slides, coverslips, forceps, razor knives,
toothpicks, ProtosloE, stain, teacher’s manual, and
30 student guides.

Per kit. .s45.4o

L 53 Basic Protozoan Set. Includes Amoeba, Eugle-
na, and Paramecium in three separate cultures.

Per set, class ofl5..$11.12; 30..$11.35;
60.62014; 120..$35.32

L 53A Protozoan Set. Includes the following 16
individually labeled cultures.

Actinosphaerlum Eudorina
Amoeba Euglena
Arcella Euplotes
Blepharisma Paramecium
Chlamydomonas Spirostomum
Didinium Stentor
Diff/ugia Volvox
Dileptus Vortice/la

Per set, class of 15. 672.92; 30. .$75.85

L 530 Cloning Kit. Especially designed to teach
students what a clone is, how it is established, and
how it is able to grow. Includes a demonstration of
basic cloning techniques in protozoans and proce-
dures to be used with several one-celled organisms.
Complete with a flow sheet of step by step instruc-
tions.

Protozoan Mixture: Amoeba, Paramecium,

Stentor, Blepharisma

Culture Chilomonas

3 Concavity Slides (each with two concavities)

5 Medicine Droppers

6 Micropipets

Pt Sterile Spring Water

12 Culture Dishes (1%”)

Vial Sterile Wheat Seed

Dissecting Forceps

Glass Marking Pencil

Carolina Protozoa and Invertebrates Manual

Per kit. .$49.73

L 53M Protozoa Mixture/Book Set. A single culture
containing six representative genera, a simple di-
chotomous key to the genera for each student, and
book 45-4100 How to Know the Protozoa. For class of
30. With culturing instructions.

Per set. .$18.98

L 53N Protozoa Survey/Book Set. Consists of six
individually labeled cultures (Amoeba, Eug/ena, Para-
mecium, Stentor, Volvox, Spirostomum) and book
45-4100 How to Know the Protozoa. For class of 30.
With culturing instructions.

Per set. .S30.79

 

L 530 Cloning Kit

L 53R Protozoa Review/Book Set. Consists of four
individually labeled cultures (Amoeba, Eug/ena, Para-
mecium, Volvox), book 45-4100 How to Know the
Protozoa, and a pad of 30 Bioreview® Sheets for each
protozoan. For class of 30. With culturing instruc-
tions.

Per set. .$39.10

L 54 General Invertebrate Set. Consists of the fol-
lowing eight individually labeled cultures.

Amoeba Brown Planaria
Paramecium Daphnia
Aeolosoma Rotifers

Brown Hydra Vinegar Eel

Per set, class of 15. 620.53; 30. .$21.11;
60. 340.02; 120. 666.24

Hydra, Planaria, and Daphnia Review Set. A sepa-
rate culture of Hydra, Planaria, and Daphnia and your
choice of 1, 3, or 5 Bioreview® Sheet pads (30
sheets/pad) for each. With instructions for culturing
each form.

L 54R Set with 1 pad 01 each. .$20.21

L 54R3 Set with 3 pads of each. .$29.50

L 54R5 Set with 5 pads of each. .$39.11

Poriferans

L 546 Spongilla. Freshwater sponge. Demonstrates
siliceous spiculation and internal budding (specimens
with gemmules are supplied when possible).

Class of 15. .S10.79

Coelenterates

Living Marine Coelenterates are listed in the Aquaria
and Terraria Section.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

L 54R3 Hydra, Planaria, and Daphnia Review Set

 

Living animals 13

 

L 53R Protozoa Review/Book Set

Hydra

L 55 Hydra. Generally, the species shipped from North
Carolina is Hydra littoralis, while Pelmatohydra
pseudo/igactis is shipped from Oregon. Specimens
are freshly collected to insure maximum natural size
and optimum physiological condition. We try to
include several animals which have one or more buds.
Use L 565 Daphnia as food and to demonstrate the
feeding action of hydra.
Class of 12. .$3.65; 25. .$4.02; 50. .$7.40;
100. .$12.57; 500. .$61.59

Hydra Review Set. A culture of Hydra and your choice
of 1, 3, or 5 pads of Hydrozoan Anatomy Bioreview®
Sheets (30 sheets/pad). With instructions.

L 55R Set with 1 pad. .$6.97

L 55R3 Set with 3 pads. .$10.30

L 55R5 Set with 5 pads. .$13.60

L 55 Hydra littoralis
with Bud

 

    

L 546 Spongilla with Gemmules

 




 

 

 

14 Carolina Biological Supply Company

Carolina Protozoa ‘ -

invertebrates -
,- Manual '

L 65 Hydra Culture Kit

L 56 Budding Hydra. Hydra with one or more buds in
various stages of development.

Classot12..$5.39; 25..$6.11; 50..$11.21;
100..$20.26

L 57 Hydra with Spermaries. Orders will be filled

from March 20 to April 20 depending on the existing

collecting conditions. Orders should be placed for

delivery as available or for the dates mentioned.
Class of 12. .$11.83; 25. .$16.88

L 60 Green Hydra. Chlorohydra viridissima. The
most important thing about the green hydra is its
symbiotic relation with certain green algae (Zoo-
chlorellae).

Class oi12..$6.64; 25. .$7.13; 50. .$12.37;
100. .$19.06; 500. .$85.89

 

 

 

 

L 215 Brown Planaria. These average over 10 mm

(winter months).

 

L 215R3 Planaria Review Set

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

~r‘l‘

L 61 Mixed Hydra. Equal numbers of green and
brown species in a single culture. Students can study
and compare both forms during the same exercise.

Class of12..$6.14; 25. .$6.64; 50. .$11.88;
100. .$19.06; 500. .$85.89

L 65 Hydra Culture Kit. Adequate for 30 students.
Everything is supplied to enable teachers, as well as
students, to maintain their own cultures of Hydra. Kit
includes a culture of living Hydra, a 6-dram vial of
brine shrimp eggs, a vial of salt crystals, a gallon of
spring water in a plastic throwaway container, and two
culture dishes. Complete instructions for hatching the
brine shrimp eggs and for maintaining the Hydra are
included. Materials will be shipped several days. in
advance of living Hydra.
Per kit. $23.53

Note on Hydra

Research workers and others who desire hydra which
have been correctly classified can follow the table
below showing species available from Burlington,
North Carolina, and Gladstone, Oregon. Please order
direct from either laboratory.

Hydra Species Availability

 

 

Species Shipped from

Hydra littoral/'3 (swift water) North Carolina

Chlorohydra viridissima (green) North Carolina
Oregon

Pe/matohydra pseudo/igactis (brown) Oregon

Platyhelminths

Planaria

L 210 Planaria. Orders are filled from a single species
or color, our selection. With instructions.

Class 0112.34.38; 25. $4.61; 50. $8.62;
100. $14.46

L 215 Brown Planaria. The size of this planarian varies
with the season. Smaller forms are more prevalent in
early spring; larger, or mature forms are evident
throughout remainder of year. With instructions.

Class 0112.34.44; 25. .$4.89; 50. .$8.90;
100. $14.83

Planaria Review Set. A culture of brown Planaria and
your choice of 1, 3, or 5 pads of Planarian Anatomy
BioreviewE Sheets (30 sheets/pad). With instructions.

L 215R Set with1 pad. .$7.88

L 215R3 Set with 3 pads. $10.68

L 215R5 Set with 5 pads. .$13.98

L 220 Black Planaria. Distinctly black in color. As an
interesting contrast in color and size for student study,
we suggest some of these be ordered along with our L
215 Brown Planaria. With lnstructions.*

Class ol12..$5.23; 25. $5.88; 50. .$10.79;
100. $19.50

*Because ol 3 sexual cycle in midwinter and extreme heat in midsum-
mer, Black Planaria do not ship well during these two periods. All orders
which are to travel over 200 miles will be sent air mail.

L 221 Mixed Planaria. Equal numbers of brown and
black planaria in each 25 unit. If it is desired that every
student study both types of planaria, then a 25 unit of
L 215 and L 220 each should be ordered. With
instructions.

Classoi12..$7.28; 25.38.17; 50..$13.67;
100..$25.47

 

“I

 




 

 

 

L 235 Planaria Regeneration BioKit

 

L 258 Vinegar Eel

L 225 White Planaria. Available from Burlington and
Gladstone. With instructions.

Class 0112.38.18; 25. .$9.09; 50. $14.57;
100. $27.34

L 226 Special Mixed Planaria. Brown, black, and
white species are mixed in equal numbers in each 25
unit. If it is desired that every student study all three
colors of Planaria, then a 25 unit each of L 215, L 220,
and L 225 should be ordered. Available from Burling-
ton and Gladstone. Species shipped will be those
found at the two different collecting areas. With
instructions.
Class of 12. .saoo; 25. sees; 50. 814.96;
100. 828.08

Identified Planaria. Orders for large quantities should
be placed well in advance.

L 229A Cura toremanii. Black. Shipped from Burlington only.

L 2298 Dendrocelopsis vaginatus. Black. Shipped from
Gladstone only.

L 2290 Dugesia dorotocephala. Brown. Shipped from
Gladstone only.

L 2290 Dugesia tigrina. Brown. Shipped from Burlington and
Gladstone.

L 229E Phagocata oregonensis. White. Shipped from Glad-
stone only.

L 229F Polycelis coronata. Brown. Shipped from Gladstone
only. Ships poorly; always sent air mail if possible.
L 2296 Phagocata morgani. White. Shipped from Burlington
only.
Class of 12. .$7.88; 25. 88.85; 50. 814.72;
100. .$27.60

L 230 Planaria Cocoons. A cocoon consists of sever-
al fertilized eggs and thousands of yolk cells. Available
mid-February to mid-March.

Per 12. .$7.36

 

Ks,
. We???“

 

L 258T Student‘s tTest Set

L 235 Planaria Regeneration BioKit®. For a class of
30. Students learn invertebrate laboratory techniques
and basic concepts of polarity and pigmentation.
Available mid-April through mid-February.

Culture Planaria

9 Razor Knives

9 Ice Containers

40 Labels

9 Brushes

40 Petri Dishes

Chemicals for Holding Solutions

30 Student Guides

Teacher’s Manual

Per kit. .$46.61

L 240 Turbellaria. Stenostomum. We suggest that
this rhabdocoel supplement the study of L 215 Brown
Planaria.

Class 0112.54.90; 30. .$5.41;
120. .$15.71

60. .$9.82;

For Slowing Planaria

88-2001 Planaslo® Quieting Solution. A solution for
slowing planarian worms and small annelids. In 15-ml
dropping bottle.

Each. $3.33; 12. .$33.30

Nematodes

L 258 Vinegar Eel. Turbatrix aceti (Angui/Iula). Lives
in vinegar on the fungus forming the “mother.”

Class 0115.54.23; 30. .3438; 60. .$8.02;
120. $13.39

L 258M Vinegar Eel Medium. Aged cider with
“mother of vinegar” added. Not pasteurized.
Per qt. .$4.38; 4 x1 qt. .$15.62

 

L 268 Fihabditis. Photographed with Rheinberg/oblique
illumination. ' ~

Living animals 15

L 258T Student’s tTest Set. Materials for setting up
the Student’s ttest apparatus for comparing two sets
of statistical data.Thls setup was designed for use with
the vinegar eel, Turbatrix. Includes 500—ml Ehrlen-
meyer flask, “Y” tube, two 1”-diameter plastic tubes,
piece of straight glass tubing, two one-hole rubber
stoppers, two solid rubber stoppers, one two-hole
rubber stopper, and instructions. (Carolina Tips, July
1, 1984 issue).
Per set. .$17.17

L 268 Bhabditis. Culture on potato plug medium.

Class of 15. .$4.74; 30. .$5.23; 60. .$9.48;
120. .$15.25

L 278 Cephalobus. Found in decaying vegetable
matter. The internal organs are visible with remarkable
clarity. Culture on potato plug medium.

Classof15..$4.74; 30.35.23; 60..$9.48;
120..$15.25

L 288 Chiloplacus. All stages in the life cycle are
readily available in every culture. Culture on potato
plug medium.

Class of15..$4.74; 30. .$5.23; 60. .$9.48;
120. .$15.25

L 289 Potato Plug Medium. Supplied in tubes. For
culturing nematodes such as Rhabditis, Cephalobus,
and Chi/oplacus.

Per 6 tubes. .$4.74; 12. .$8.53

Rotifers

Rotifers. Monosty/a and Philodina. Monosty/a pos-
sesses a lorica which is lacking in Phi/odina.

L 301 Monostyla.
L 302 Philodina.

Class 0115.54.23; 30. .$4.38; 60. .$8.02;
120. .$13.39

L 310 Mixed Rotifers. The two genera listed above in
approximately equal numbers.

Class 0115.54.23; 30. .$4.38; 60. .$8.02;
120. .$13.39

Bryozoans, Gastrotrichs

L 320 Bryozoans. These “moss animals” are avail-
able from April 15 to September 15. The zooids form
extensive colonies on submerged leaves, twigs, and
rocks. Statoblasts are supplied when possible.

Class of 15. .$5.57; 30. .$6.09; 60. .$11.16;
120..$17.33

L 321 Bryozoan Statoblasts. Dry; approximately 300

per vial. Characteristic hooked spines spread around

central capsule and float. Viability not guaranteed.
Per vial. .$3.75; 5 vials. .$17.41

L 325 Lepidodermella. Resembles rotifers in size
and shape, but with no crown of cilia.

Class of 15. .$4.30; 30. .$4.38; 60. .$8.02;
120. .$13.39

 

L 340 Water Bear

 




 

 

16 Carolina Biological Supply Company

 

Tardigrades

L 340 Water Bears. Usually Milnesium or Hypsibius.
Tardigrades are supplied in a cryptobiotic (inactive)
state. Inactive forms can be re-animated during class
for student observation or about an hour before
needed.
Class of 15. 54.71;
120. 511.93

30. .5528; 60. .5822;

Annelids

L 350 Aeolosoma. Freshwaterannelid. Cultures con-
tain active, reproducing specimens.

Class 0115.54.73; 30. .5523; 60. .$9.48;
120. 515.25

L 360 Dero. An oligochaete with the posterior end
developed into a respiratory organ.

Class of 15. .$4.73; 30. .5523; 60. .$9.48;
120. 515.25

L 380 Stylaria. The prostomium in this oligochaete is
elongated to form a proboscis.

Class of 15. .$4.73; 30. .5523; 60. .$9.48;
120. 515.25

L 390 Mixed Annelids. Three genera in approximate-
ly equal numbers.

Classof15..55.96; 30.56.45; 60.51204;
120520.39

L 393 Enchytraeus. White oligochaetes. Excellent
food for aquarium fish, amphibians, etc., and for
study.

Class 0f15..$4.30; 30. 54.38; 60. .$8.02;
120. 513.39

 

L 350 Aeolosoma, posterior view. Photographed with
Rheinberg/oblique illumination.

 

L 360 Dero, mid section. Photographed with Rheinberg/
oblique illumination.

“9‘“

L 394 Limbricilus. Black oligochaetes. Excellent
food for leeches, aquatic insects, frogs, and fish. 1~oz
unit (about 1000 worms).

Per unit. .5495

L 396 Tubitex. Slender red or brown oligochaetes.
Excellent food for planarians, leeches, dragonfly and
damselfly nymphs, and fish.

Class 0f15..54.30; 30. 54.38; 60. 58.02;
120. 513.39

 

The Jewel MicroEcosystem@—an integrated.
back-to-basics, Biology Lab Program

This lab program clarifies the interdependent, interac-
tive relationships between an environment and living
organisms. Students can also study morphological
and functional similarities and differences among
organisms. The MicroEcosystem (L 408E) is the
“live" support system or environment for the lab
program. It is a simple, low cost, self-regenerating
resource for a wide variety of living organisms: red
worms (the organism of primary focus), protozoa,
algae, bacteria, fungi, mites, and flies — all of which
develop continuously with the system. The Program
Manual (L 408F) is a comprehensive, illustrated,
step—by-step guide to the study of living organisms, as
well as description and maintenance techniques for
the MicroEcosystem.

L 408E MicroEcosystem. Jewel. Forateam of upto4

students. Complete with red worms, container with

lid, worm bedding material, and worm food. Includes

postpaid card for requesting delivery of worms.
Each. 54253

L 408F MicroEcosystem Lab Manual. Jewel. A com-
prehensive, illustrated, step-by-step guide to studying
living organisms, plus description and maintenance
techniques for the MicroEcosystem.

Each. .$9.87

L 4088 MicroEcosystem Kit. Jewel. Complete pro-
gram, including L 408E MicroEcosystem and L 408F
MicroEcosystem Lab Manual.

Per kit. .$51.05

selected milled
‘Or 1min}; plants

Miriam/germ

L 408E MicroEcosystem

L 408H MicroEcosystem Classroom Set. Includes 8
MicroEcosystems (L 408E) and one MicroEcosystem
Lab Manual (L 408F).

Per set. 5299.29

35mm Transparency Sets for use with the Jewel
MicroEcosystem (see the 35mm Transparency Sec-
tion for details):
1. Microorganisms: Bacteria, Protozoa, Algae, and
Lichens Set (48-1115)
2. Animal Nutrition Set (48~1500)

 

 

L 397 Worm Farm

 

L 398 Worm Ranch

Worm Farm. A complete unit for raising and keeping
earthworms and redworms. The Farm includes 85/8 x
12 x 83/4” insulated container with cover and metal
carrying handle, 4-oz bag of worm food, 11/2-Ib bag of
worm bedding, and instructions.

L 397 Worm Farm only. .5985

L 397A Worm Farm with 50 redworms. 513.60

L 3978 Worm Farm with 50 earthworms. 524.92

The Worm Ranch. Larger than the Worm Farm, the
Ranch is designed for raising and keeping up to 600
earthworms or 1200 redworms for several weeks. The
Ranch includes a 14 x 20 x 7" insulated container with
cover, 41/2 lb of worm bedding, 12 oz of worm food.
and instructions.

L 398 Worm Ranch only. 52041

L 398A Worm Ranch with 100 redworms. 525.25

L 3988 Worm Ranch with 100 earthworms. 543.23

Magic Flip-Top Worm Hut. Worms have a tendency to
burrow down to the bottom of their holding container.
Now, the Magic Worm Hut allows you to obtain your
worms without digging—this but can be opened from
the top or bottom.

L 398F Worm Hut only. 56.20

L 3986 Worm Hut with 50 redworms. 511.74

Magic Worm Food. Contains everything necessarlito
produce fast growing, healthy worms. A worm eats ItS
own weight in food each day. Magic Worm Food can
also be scattered on lawns, flower beds, and gardens
to increase the worm population.

L399 4-oz bag. .5 .99; 6 or more. ea. .5 .91

L 399A 12-01 bag. .5236; 8 or more, ea. .5215

L 3998 24-02 canister. 54.84

Magic Worm Bedding. Keeps worms cool, fresh,
healthy, and easy to select. Magic Worm Bedding '5
clean. odorless, and will not powder or deteriorate.

L 399C 1‘/2-lb bag. .5225

L 3990 (We-lb bag. .5512

L 399E 25-Ib bag. 518.60

 

 




 

 

L 400 Earthworm

    

Vol xtv- '

L 480 Land Snail

L 400 Earthworms. Large, mature specimens for
laboratory study and dissection.
Per12..$6.55; 25.31251; 100..$32.17

L 408 Earthworms. Medium specimens. Excellent

food for snakes and large salamanders. Not suitable

for dissection, but good for making earthworm slides.
Per 12. .$5.99; 25. .$10.41; 100. .$28.02

L 409 Redworms. Small specimens for feeding
animals such as fish, amphibians, and reptiles. About
75 to 100 per ponion.

Per portion. .$8.51

L 410 Earthworm Cocoons. A cocoon is about the
size of a wheat grain. Eggs and embryos in various
stages of development.

Per 12. S735; 25. .$13.60

L 421 Leeches. Medium size or 1- to 2-inch pond
leeches. Species as available. Shipped as available.
Per 3. .$6.60; 12. .$23.73

L 422 Medicinal Leeches. Hirudo medicinal/s. Size, 2
to 4”.
Each. .$10.97; 3. .$32.75

L425 Leeches. Small size, up to 1”. Species as
available. Shipped as available.
Per 3. .$4.97; 12. .$19.35

L 427 Magic Leech Lodge. ideal for transporting or
storing leeches for short periods of time.
Each. S726

Molluscs

Living Marine Molluscs are listed in the Aquaria and
Terraria Section.

vLand Snails

e
“ L475 Land Snail Habitat. Includes cage and lid,
moss, woodland plants, spray water bottle, and 12
land snails.

Per set. .$25.00

 

L 489C Ramhorn Snail

    
    

L 422 Medicinal Leech

L 491 Mystery Snail

L 480 Land Snails. Good animals for terraria. Our
choice of species depending on availability. Residents
of CA must apply for USDA permit to receive this
material.

Per 12. .$7.25; 25. .$14.05

Pond Snails

L 489 Pond Snails. Medium. Good scavengers. Large
orders may contain mixed species.
Per12..$6.94; 25..$11.61

L 489A Pond Snails. Small. Will fit in a 20-mm
diameter culture tube.
Per 12. .$5.35; 25. .$9.44

L 4890 Bamhorn Snails. The most popular aquarium
snail, available year-round.
Per 3. .$2.20; 12. .5720

L 4890 Pond Snail Set. Includes six each of two
different varieties of pond snails (our choice).
Per set. .$7.80

Large Aquarium Snails

L 490 Mystery Snail Set. Includes three each of two
varieties of mystery snails.
Per set. .$11.55

L 491 Mystery Snails. Large. Good scavengers, and
they do not eat the plants.
12. .$16.74

Per 3. .$5.35;

L 427 Magic
Leech Lodge

 

Living animals 11

  
  

L 421 Leech

   

.q._., .

L 495 Giant Water Snail

L 494 Albino Mystery Snails. Same as L 491, but
body is a golden color.
Per 3. .$7.65

L 4946 Golden Albino Mystery Snail. This snail has
an albino body and a golden shell.
Per 3. .$8.45

L 495 Giant Water Snail. About 2 to 3” in diameter.
Available year-round.
Each. .$6.95

Mussels

L 500 Freshwater Mussels. Large to medium size for
class study. Species as available.
Per 3. .s5.24; 12. .$16.05

L 501 Freshwater Mussels. Size, 1 to 2".
Per 3. .S4.28; 12. .$13.94

Arthropods

Living Marine Arthropods are listed in the Aquaria and
Terraria Section.

 

L 475 Land Snail Habitat

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

l8 Corolino Biological Supply Company

  

L 565 Daphnia. Photographed with Rheinberg/obllque
illumination.

Crustaceans

L 565 Daphnia. Culture usually contains several
sizes, including large forms with eggs. Excellent food
for hydra and small fish. With instructions.

Class of 15. 84.31; 30. 84.37; 60. 88.01;
120. 813.36

Daphnia Review Set. A culture of Daphnia and your
choice of 1, 3, or 5 pads of Daphnia Anatomy
Bioreview® Sheets (30 sheets/pad). With instructions.

L 5658 Set with1 pad. 87.37

L 56583 Set with 3 pads. 810.68

L 56585 Set with 5 pads. 813.98

L 566 Alonella. Small cladoceran; easily cultured.

Class 0115.84.30; 30. 84.73; 60. .$8.60;
120. 813.36

L 568 Copepods. Cyclops. May include females with
egg sacs and several in the nauplius stage.

Class of 15. 84.30; 30. 84.73; 60. .$8.60;
120. 813.36

L 580 Ostracods. These arthropods have a bivalved
carapace hinged with an abductor muscle, a body
laterally compressed, and seven pairs of appendages.

Class 0115.84.30; 30. 84.73; 60.88.60;
120. 813.36

L 582 Aquatic lsopods. These arthropods feed on
dead and decaying vegetable and animal matter.
Culture contains Ase/lus or similar genera.

Class 0115.84.38; 25. 84.61; 50. 88.63;
100. 814.51

L 584 Amphipods. Gammarus or similar genera.

Class 0115.84.38; 25.84.61;
100. 814.51

50. 88.63;

 

L 598 Land Hermit Crab Kit

 

 

 

L 568 Copepod

 

L 600 Land Hermit Crab

L 586 Mixed Crustaceans. Any four of the above
genera will be mixed, depending on availability.

Class 0115.87.16; 25.88.09; 50813.51;
100.823.40

L 589 Feeder Crayfish. These small crayfish are ideal

food for large amphibians and reptiles. They can also

be used in the lab for growth studies. Size, 1A to 11/2".
Per 6. 84.95; 12.88.45

L 590 Crayfish. Large, not sexed. For laboratory
study and dissection. Please order 10 days in ad-
vance. Cannot be shipped into CA.

Per 6. 812.50; 12. 822.50; 25. 843.75

L 592 Craylish. Medium to large. Good for most
laboratory work. Cannot be shipped into CA.
Per 6. 810.40; 12. 818.75; 25. 836.38

L 593 Crayfish. Small to medium. Good for the
aquarium. Cannot be shipped into CA.
Per6.88.57; 12.814.92; 25.826.76

 

L 600A Fancy Land Hermit Crab

 

 

 

 

L 596 Land Hermit Crab Starter Kit

L 596 Land Hermit Crab Starter Kit. Includes cage,
tree branch, water dish. and three hermit crabs.
Per kit. 831.86

L 598 Land Hermit Crab Kit. Designed for maintaining
land hermit crabs in the classroom. With instructions.
6 Land Hermit Crabs Bulbs
Extra Shells Coarse Sand
All-glass, 10-gal Tank Tree Branch
Incandescent Hood Water Dish
Per kit. 874.95

L 600 Land Hermit Crab. A hardy marine crustacean

that spends most of its life on land. This crab is easily

maintained in a sand-based terrarium. instructions.
Per3.89.50: 12.834.10

L 600A Fancy Land Hermit Crabs. Similar to L 600
crabs, but with very exotic and beautiful shells.
Per 3. 813.40

Hermit Crab Food. A dry food that provides an easy
method for feeding hermit crabs.
L 600M 250 g. 84.05

L 600N 500 g. 87.25
e‘ll

Hermit Crab Cakes. High-protein, vitamin food torthe
health and growth of hermit crabs.

L600R 3 oz. 84.96

L600T 1 lb. 87.40

Land Hermit Crab Shell Sets. Empty gastropod shells
for land hermit crabs. Each set includes three shells.
L 602 Assorted Shell Set. 86.60

L 602C Shell Set tor Large Crabs. 810.45
L 6020 Fancy Shell Set. 89.95

 

L 6020 Fancy Shell Set

 

 




 

 

 

l‘.’

70.5

.sts ,1ng
gm .

L 607 Fiddler Crab

a»:

L 605 Fiddler Crab Kit. Designed for maintaining
freshwater fiddler crabs in the classroom. Includes 6
crabs, cage, sand, and food. With instructions.

Per kit. $25.98

L 607 Fiddler Crab. A small hardy crustacean that
spends most of its life along brackish water shores.
This crab is easily maintained in the classroom. With
instructions.

Per 3. 810.85; 12. 839.55

L 607M Fiddler Crab Food. A dry food that provides
an easy method for feeding fiddler crabs. 250-g bag.
Per bag. .6405

L 608 Live Adult Brine Shrimp. Ideal food for all fish,
aquatic insects, and amphibians, without the trouble
of hatching. 2 02.

Per bag. .$5.50

L 608A Baise-A-Sea Monkey (Brine Shrimp). Actual-

Iy grow brine shrimp to adult stage with this unique kit.

Kit includes small “Micro-Vue” aquarium, eggs,

water purifier, growth food, and feeding spoon.
Each. .8655

L 6088 Lighted Raise-A-Sea Monkey (Brine Shrimp).
Same as L 608A Raise-A-Sea Monkey but includes a
light for better viewing.

Each. .$11.34

L 608C Brine Shrimp Replacement Unit. Replace-
ment unit for either L 608A Raise-A-Sea Monkey or L
6088 Lighted Raise-A-Sea Monkey. Includes water
purifier, eggs, and food.

Each. .8342

L 609 Brine Shrimp Hatchery. Hatch and feed live
brine shrimp to fish. Simple to operate. Just fill
Shrimpery’"? with Hatch mix (included) and water.
Complete with instructions.

Each. .$7.14

L 609A Brine Shrimp Hatch Mix. For use with L 609
Hatchery. Just add to the Shrimpery® along With tap
water. Live brine shrimp hatch in 1 to 2 days. 3 packs
per card.

Per card. .$2.08

L 609C Brine Shrimp Hatchery Kit. For hatching brine
shrimp eggs. Includes hatching container, air pump,
airline tubing, airstone, salt, unit of brine shrimp
eggs, fine mesh net, and instructions.

Per kit. .$16.70

L 6090 Brine Shrimp Hatchery. Includes plastic
hatching cone of over 1-Iiter capacity, airline tubing,
Shrimp net, and instructions. Without air pump. Order
brine shrimp eggs separately. Hatchery can be sus-
pended for easy see-through observation.

Each. .$7.24

L 609E Brine Shrimp Combo. A premeasured amount
of brine shrimp eggs and salt combined in an
Individual bag. To hatch, add the contents of each bag
19 a quart of water. For best results, use an air bubbler.
Five bags per set.

Per set. .$2.18

  

 

L 6088 Lighted Raise-A-Sea Monkey

Brine Shrimp Eggs. Brine shrimp eggs hatch in about
2 days when put in a weak salt solution. Excellent food
for hydra and small aquarium fish. With instructions.

L 610 6-dram vial. .$3.18

L 612 2-02 bottle. .$9.16

L614 15-02 can. .$49.89

L 616 Brine Shrimp Eggs Without Shells. Add directly

to hatchery or marine aquarium. Because eggs do not

have shells, they hatch quickly. 30 g container.
Each. .$6.55

L 618 Brine Shrimp Net. Extra fine mesh net. Ideal for
use with all sizes of brine shrimp.
Each. 81.25

L 619 Brine Shrimp Food. Raise brine shrimp from
larvae to adults in 12 to 20 days.
Each. .$5.60

Terrestrial Isopods. Wood lice.

L 624 Pill or Sow Bugs. Field-collected.
Per 12. 85.20; 25. 87.30; 50. .$12.50;
100. .$18.75
L 630A Sow Bugs. Porce/Iio.
Per 12. .$5.85; 50. 822.95

L 6300 Pill Bugs. Armadil/idium.
\N Per 12. 65.85; 50. 622.95

L 632 Terrestrial Isopod Culture Kit. Kit allows you
to establish and maintain sow bugs in your classroom.
Includes culture container, bedding, food, and 50 sow
bugs.

Per kit. .$16.95

Myriapods

L 642 Centipedes.
Per3..$11.05; 12..$40.87

L 645 Millipedes.
Per 3. 69.85; 12. 636.45

Arachnids

L 655 Scorpion. Not sexed. Sold only to schools and
businesses.
Each. .$10.45

L 658A Spiders. Not identified. A mixture is shipped
when possible.
Per 6. 818.75

L 659 Cellar Spiders. Family Pholcidae. Species and
size as available. Not sexed.
Per 12. .$18.75

 

L 609C Brine Shrimp Hatchery Kit

Living animals 19

 

 

 

L 609D Brine Shrimp Hatchery

 

L 632 Terrestrial Isopod Culture Kit

 

L 655 Scorpion

L 662 Orb Weaver. Species and size as available. Not‘

. sexed. Residents 0le and TN must apply for USDA

permit to receive this material (we will supply neces-
sary information and forms).
Each. .$9.65

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

If? . r‘:}\:\§"\J

20 Carolina Biological Supply Company

Tarantula Habitat. Designed for maintaining a taran-
tula in the classroom. Includes plastic terrarium with
lid, sand, tree branch, water bowl, and instructions.

L 670 Kit only. .$24.25

L 670A Kit with brown tarantula. .$36.22

L 6708 Kit with rosy-haired tarantula. .$52.82

Deluxe Tarantula Habitat. Designed for maintaining a
tarantula in the classroom. Includes 10-gal all-glass
aquarium, incandescent hood with bulbs, substrate,
tree branch, water bowl, and instructions.

L 6700 Kit only. .$58.42

L 670E Kit with brown tarantula. .$67.98

L 67oF Kit with rosy-haired tarantula. 688.98

L 670N Tarantula Set. Includes three different types of
tarantulas.
Per set. .$65.80

L 671 Tarantula. Not sexed.
Each. .$13.50

L 674 Pink-toed Tarantula. A large spider with a black
body and pink toes.
{ Each. .$23.25

J 7L 676 Rosy-haired Tarantula. A large spider with rosy

color hair on it’s back. These spiders are considered to
be one of the most docile tarantulas.
Each. . $39.99

insects

L 710 House Cricket Life Cycle Kit. Acheta domesti-
cus. Designed for the classroom, this kit demon-
strates the complete life cycle of the common house
cricket. The cricket is an ideal insect for showing
metamorphosis without diapause.

Adult Crickets Wire Screen
2 Egg-laying Dishes Sand
4 Peat Pots Food
Cage Instructions

Per kit. .$22.97

L 710R House Cricket Replacement Set. Contains
replacements for expendable portions of L 710.
Adult Crickets Sand
Peat Pots Food
Per set. .$10.45

L 715 House Cricket Adults. Achefa domesticus.
Per12..$4.99; 50..$11.25; 100..$18.16

L 715A House Cricket Eggs. Unit of 50 to 100 eggs.
Per unit. .$5.20

L' 7158 House Cricket Nymphs.
Per 12. .$4.60; 50. .$10.45

L 7150 House Cricket Lite Cycle. Includes as many
stages as available.
Each. .6799

L 715M House Cricket Food. Nutritional, high protein
diet for common house crickets. 250-g bag.
Per bag. .$4.06

L 717 “Little Chirper” Cricket Cage. Crickets have
been kept as household pets in the orient for centuries.
They are clean and odorless, and with the “Little
Chirper” Cricket Cage, easy to care for. Sturdy wood
and metal screen design with vinyl door makes this the
perfect home. Includes 6 crickets, carpeting, food and
water dishes, cricket food, and a fact-filled booklet.
Size, 3 x 3 x 5".
Each. 610.45

L 724 Cockroach Set. Includes six each of two
different cockroaches: Blaberus, Periplaneta, and
BIatte/la.

Per set. .$15.20

 

L 670F Deluxe Tarantula Habitat with Tarantula

.mﬁf

  

a...
L 674 Pink-toed Tarantula

L 725 Giant Cockroach

 

 

 

L 727 Giant Cockroach Nymph

L 671 Tarantula

 

 

L 715 House Cricket

 

L 728 German Cockroach

L727 Giant Cockroach Nymphs. Large wingleSS
nymphs. See permit requirements given In L 72 .
Per 12. 519.85: 25. 538.15
IL 728 German Cockroach. BlaffeI/a. Size, 1 to 2 cm
ong.
Per12. 511.65; 50. 641.70

 




 

 

 

i‘l’

 

L 840 Milkweed Bug Culture Kit

L 728C German Cockroach Egg Cases. B/atte/la.
Per 3. 62.55: 12. .$9.35

L 729 German Cockroach Nymphs. Blatte/la.
Per 12. .8985; 50. .$37.60

L 730 Cockroach. Periplaneta (3-4 cm). Residents of
Hi and TN must apply for USDA permit to receive this
material (we will supply necessary forms). Residents
of Canada must apply fora Canadian Dept. Agriculture
permit to receive this material.

Per 12. S1709; 50. 859.55

L 731 Cockroach Egg Cases. Periplaneta. See permit
requirements given in L 730.
Per3..$5.10: 12..$16.15

L_ 732 Cockroach Nymphs. See permit requirements
given in L 730.
Per 12. .$13.60

Cockroach Food.
L 733 250 g. .3475 L 7338 500 g. 36.80

L 738 Mantis Eggs. Egg clusters of the Chinese

praying mantis. May be stored in refrigerator until

ready for use. Available from December to June.
Per3. .3999

L 740 Soldier Termites. Residents 0le, TN, and VT
"703’ apply for USDA permit to receive this material
( we will supply necessary information and forms).
Residents of Canada must apply for a Canadian Dept.
Agriculture permit to receive this material.

Per 12. .$10.40; 25. .$20.50

L741 Worker Termites. See permit requirements
given in L 740.
Per 25. .$10.40; 100. .S37.00

L743 Termites. Trichonympha and Pyrsonympha,

as well as other protozoa, live as symbionts in the

termite's gut. See permit requirements given in L 740.
Per 25. .$8.20; 50. .$11.59; 100. .$20.34

    

 

L 771 Dragonfly Nymph

 

Milkweed Bug: L 847 Adult; L 847A Nymph

L 745 Termite Study Kit. Materials and instructions
for studying diet and symbiosis. See permit require-
ments given in L 740.
Living Termites
2 Plastic Bottles
Plastic Foam
Paper Towelling
Per kit. .$26.10

L 771 Dragonfly Nymphs. Scarce in winter; available
at most other seasons.
Per 12. .$13.30

L 775 Damseltly Nymphs. Scarce in winter; available
at most other seasons.
Per 12. 613.30

L 777 Backswimmer. Water Boatman. Available
March through November only.
Per 6. .3620; 12. .$10.99

L 778 Diving Beetle. An aquatic, predaceous coleop-
teran. Available March through November only.
Per6..$6.20; 12..$10.99

L 779 Giant Water Bug. The males carry eggs on their
backs. Available March through November only.
Per 6. 67.50

L 840 Milkweed Bug Culture Kit. Oncope/tus fas-
ciatus. This attractively colored bug has been exten-
sively used in research ranging from biochemistry to
behavior. In addition to studying its life cycle and
behavior, 0. fasciatus can be used to demonstrate
incomplete metamorphosis and hemipteran morphol-
ogy.

Milkweed Bug Eggs (enough to start a colony)

Culture Container

250 g Milkweed Bug Food

Egg-laying Substrate

Watering Vial and Wicks

Climbing Mat

Instructions and Background Information

Per kit. .$22.50

50 Microscope Slides
50 Coverslips

0.5% Sodium Chloride
Dropping Bottle

FHX YOUR ORDER 919 584-3399

 

Living animals 21

 

L 775 Damselfly Nymphs

 

L 872 Bessbug

L 866
Lady Beetle

L 8408 Milkweed Bug Replacement Set. Contains
replacements for expendable portions of L 840.
Egg-Laying Substrate
250 g Food
Watering Vial and Wicks
Climbing Mat
Per set. .$8.00

L 841 Milkweed Bug Assortment. A unit of eggs,
nymphs, and adult milkweed bugs to demonstrate the
lite cycle of Oncopeltus fasciatus.

Per set. .$17.75

L 845 Milkweed Bug Eggs. 0. fasciatus. Each unit
contains enough eggs to start a colony of milkweed
bugs.

Per unit. .$8.35

L 847 Milkweed Bug Adult. 0. fasciatus.
Per 12. .$8.35; 50. .$31.30

L 847A Milkweed Bug Nymphs”. 0. fasciatus.
Per 12. .$4.85; 50. .$17.75

L 848 Milkweed Bug Food. Shelled, unsalted sun-
flower seed. For rearing the milkweed bug. Unit
contains about 250 grams.

Per unit. .5340

Lady Beetles. Hippodamia convergens. Well-known
predator of aphids. Diet is packaged in a 1-liter bag
with ingredients and mixing instructions.

L 866 Beetles per 25. .$4.70; 100. .$13.50

L 1160 Lady Beetle diet. .$14.05

L 872 Bessbugs. Passe/us. Also known as Betsy
bugs, these large beetles live in and under moist
rotting wood.

Per 12. 315.65

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

22 Carolina Biological Supply Company

 

L 882 Dermestid Culture Kit

391
L 882 Dermestid Culture Kit. Includes culture con-
tainer and lid, dermestid stock culture, food, and
instructions.

Per kit. .$18.25

L 885 Dermestid Assortment. Contains as many
stages (adult, larva, pupa) as are available, mixed
together. Suitable for starting new stock cultures.
Used for skeletal preparation.

Per set. .$12.20

L 886 Dermestid Beetle Food. Ideal food for dermes-
tid larvae and beetles. Unit contains about 4 02.
Per unit. .$1.35

L 890 Mealworm Adults. Tenebrio. The adult lays
hundreds of eggs and is the best stage to start a
balanced culture.

Per 12. .$6.25; 50. .$13.50

L 891 Mealworm Larvae. Tenebrio. Ideal food for
lizards, salamanders, turtles, and frogs.

Per50..$5.34; 100..$7.14; 500..$19.31;
1000.. .$28.97

L 891A Mini Mealworm Larvae. Ideal food for small
insects and animals such as spiders and fish.
VI Per 50. .$4.05; 100. .$5.70

L 891B Giant Mealworm Larvae. Ideal food for large
frogs, toads, turtles, and lizards. Size, 1-2".
Per 25. .$3.40; 50. .$5.90

L 892 Mealworm Pupae. Pupae will metamorphose
into adult beetles in approximately two to four weeks.
Per 12. .5575

L 893 Mealworm Assortment. Tenebrio. Contains as
many stages (adult, larva, pupa) as are available,
mixed together. Suitable for starting new cultures or
for studying insect metamorphosis.

Per set. .$7.25

L 895 Mealworm Culture Kit. Tenebrio. Enough
adults to start a large culture, plus culturing pan and
medium for rearing larvae. With instructions.

Per kit. .$16.70

Bran Meal. For culturing mealworms.
L 895N 2.5 kg. .$5.10
L 895P 5 kg. .$8.35

 

Dermestid Larva (L 885)

  

Dermestid Pupa (L 885)

 

L 906B Silkworm Cocoon Box

L 896 Population Sampling BioKit®. For a class of
30. Students sample and mark a large population of
mealworms and estimate population size. Directions
provided for constructing confidence limits around
estimates and for obtaining total count of population
for comparison with estimates.

Large Container of Mealworms and Medium

10 Sample Containers

5 Vials Marking Paint

Packet Toothpicks

30 Student Guides

Teacher's Manual

Per kit. .$28.40

L 899 Conlused Flour Beetle Culture Kit. Tribal/um
confusum. Includes unit of adults, medium, culture
vessel, and instructions.

Per kit. .$11.78

L 900 Conlused Flour Beetles. T. confusum. Small
reddish-brown beetle about 3 mm long. Each female
lays 100-200 eggs in a period that may last one year.
Unit contains enough adults to start a large culture.
With instructions.

Per unit. .$6.24; 12 ..$39.70

L 901 Red Flour Beetle Culture Kit. T. castaneum.
Includes unit of adults, medium, culture vessel, and
instructions.

Per kit. .$11.78

ﬁll our products are unconditionally guaranteed!

L 890 Mealworm Adult

 

L 891 Mealworm Larvae

 

Silkworm (Bombyx morl) Moth

L 902 Bed Flour Beetles. T. castaneum. Similarto T.
confusum, but redder in color and with different
antenna structure. Unit contains enough beetles to
start a large culture. With instructions.

Per unit. .$6.24; 12 units. 63970

L 902N Flour Beetle Medium. About 1 liter per unit.
Per unit. .$3.92

Moths

L 903 Silkworm Student Kit. Bombyx mori. For
demonstrating life cycle and silk production. Each kit
Includes container, six silkworm eggs, and artificial
diet. With instructions. We recommend using L 906
Incubator for first and second larval instars.

Per kit. .$20.90

L 904 Silkworm Eggs. 8. mori. For hatching silk-«
worms. Life cycle takes about 6 to 8 weeks. With
Instructions. Order artificial diet separately.

Per 25. $7.30; 50. $13.90; 100. $26.33

Silkworm Artiﬁcial Diet. For raising silkworms.
L 905 For raising 6 larvae. .$19.90
L 905A For raising 50 larvae. 363.70

L 906 Silkworm Incubator. Ideal for use in raising first
and second silkworm instars.
Each. . $39.30

L 9063 Silkworm Cocoon Box. Includes silkworm
cocoon, snlk thread, and demonstrations on how to

collect your own raw silk. Instructions included.
Per box. .$5.20

 

 

- 7-3 .a.‘

 

 

’ _ ‘85.: u‘rwm , ﬂtrﬁ“
“f—




6'

L907 Tobacco Hornworm BioKit®. Manduca sexta.
Fora class of 30 students, working in teams of two.
Demonstrates the life cycle of the tobacco hornworm.
Larvae are shipped with enough medium and supplies
to carry through the life cycle.

15 Larvae
15 Vials Culture Medium
15 Vial Caps
15 Sponge Plugs
15 Rulers
Holding Tray
Bag Pupating Medium
Moth Cage
Sponge with Tobacco Extract
Sheet of Labels
30 Student Guides
Teacher’s Manual

Per kit. .$57.50

 

L 907A Tobacco Hornworm Eggs. Unrefrigerated.
For hatching tobacco hornworm larvae only. If tobac-
co hornworm larvae are to be cultured, order L 908M
Tobacco Hornworm Medium. Vial contains 30 to 50
eggs. Note: Orders shipped on Tuesdays only.

Per vial. .5795

L 908 Tobacco Hornworm Larvae. Individual vials
with enough medium to grow larvae to maturity.
' Per 12. .$22.85; 25. 841.60; 50. 881.75

L 9080 Dry Hornworm Medium. Enough to feed 30
larvae. Mix with water and formaldehyde. Includes
instructions.

5*? Per bag. .$15.60

Hornworm Medium. Ready-to-use. One vial sufficient
for one larva; 1 liter for 30. With instructions.

I

l

l L 908K Hornworm Medium Bulk. One-liter jar.
Per jar. 620.90

L 908M Hornworm Medium. Individual vials.
Per 12. .$12.50; 50. .$45.98

 

L 908N Hornworm Pupating Medium. One liter is
enough for 25 larvae.
Per liter. .5520

 

L 908P Tobacco Hornworm Pupae. Will emerge if
held at room temperature.
Per 6. .$14.89

L 909 Greater Wax Moth Larvae. Galleria mel/onel/a.
This moth is easily reared, hardy, odorless, and can be
handled safely. The culture is self-contained (50-75
larvae), and the moth will complete its life cycle in the
vessel in which it is shipped. With instructions.
Residents of Hi, ID, MT, and TN must apply for USDA
permit to receive this material (we will supply neces—
sary information and forms).
Per culture. .$12.40

 

 

 

Moth from L 910A Saturniid Moth Cocoon Set

L 9090 Greater Wax Moth Observation Set. Includes
living wax moth larvae and a piece of bee comb.
Students observe actual larval damage to the bee
comb. Instructions.

Per set. .$12.40

L 909M Greater Wax Moth Medium. Enough me-
dium to rear at least 100 moths About 1 liter of
medium per bag.

Per bag. 87.99

L 910 Moth Cocoons. From one of the large saturniid
moths. Available from Oct. through May. See permit
requirements given in L 909.

Per6..$18.30; 12..$32.76

L 910A Saturniid Moth Cocoon Set. Six identified
cocoons (three each of two species) of large satur-
niids. Available Oct. through May. See permit require-
ments given in L 909.

Per set. .$22.48

Butterflies

L 911 Painted Lady Butterfly. Vanessa cardui. One
or two larvae shipped in rearing chamber with food. A
larva pupates and emerges as an adult in about 30
days. Ideal for individual student use. With instruc-
tions.

Per3. 612.35; 12. .$46.35

L 912 Painted Lady Butterfly Kit. Vanessa cardui.
Three to five larvae shipped in rearing chamber with
food. Larvae pupate and emerge as adults in about 30
days. With instructions.

Per kit. .$10.75

L 912A Painted Lady Butterfly Chrysalis.
Each. .$4.15; 3 or more, ea. .$3.48

 

L 907 Tobacco Hornworm BioKit

 

L 913 Raise-A-Butterfly

 

 

Living animals 23

L 913 Raise-A-Butterfly. Everything you need to raise
your own painted lady butterflies. Kit includes five
larvae, culture medium, plastic cage, water and food
vial, climbing mat, and instructions.

Per kit. .$18.86

L 914 Painted Lady Life Cycle BioKit®. Fora class of
30. Enough material for each student to set up a
culture with two larvae.

60—75 Larvae Egg-laying Discs

Culture Medium Filter Paper
30 Culture Vessels 5 Wooden Spatulas
with Lids 5 Brushes

30 Student Guides
Teacher’s Manual

Butterfly Cage
2 Feeding Vial Units
Per kit. .$67.90

L 916 Painted Lady BioKit® Refill. Contains refills for
the expendable portions of L 914.

60-75 Larvae 30 Student Guides
Medium 30 Culture Vessels
5 Wooden Spatulas with Lids

Per set. .$47.50

L 9168 Egg-laying Discs. Replacements for L 914
Painted Lady BioKit®.

Each. .$1.85
\N

The Butterfly Curriculum. Selected activities using the
painted lady. butterfly.

L 917 Grades K-2. .$9.95

L 917A Grades 3-6. .$9.95

L 9178 Junior High and Gifted Students. .$9.95

L 9170 High School Students. .$9.95

L 918 Painted Lady Culture Medium. Sufficient
medium for up to 40 larvae. In 8-oz jar.
Per jar. .$17.75

For Fast Service
(GILL TOLL FREE
800 334-5551

 

L 908 Tobacco Hornworm Larva

 

L 914 Painted Lady Life Cycle BioKit

 




if

24 Carolina Biological Supply Company

 

L 925 Fruit Flies. Forfeeding fish, toads, frogs, and
lizards.
Per culture. .$4.24

L 928 House Fly Culture Kit. Everything needed to
culture house flies in the classroom. With Instruc-

L 919C Butterfly Activity Kit. A classroom kit contain-
ing a wide assortment of materials for studying
butterflies. Includes three to five living larvae shipped
in a rearing chamber with food. Also includes 20
laminated butterflies, game board and cards, domino
set, full-color posters, flash cards, reproducible

 

activity sheets, audio cassette, and more. “0"5-
Per kit. 8146.25 House Fly Pupae
Sleeve Cage

Container for Rearing Larvae
Wood Shavings
Medium for Larvae
2 Collecting Trays
Egg-laying Substrate
Food for Adults
Water and Food Dishes
Per kit. .$39.20

L 928R Replacement Set for House Fly Culture Kit.
For expendable portion of L 928.

Wood Shavings Egg-laying Substrate
Medium for Larvae Food for Adults
Per set. .8890

Carolina Butterfly Chrysalides. Chrysalides of two
different breathtaking butterflies. Butterflies should
emerge within 10 to 14 days. Our L 919H Habitat is
ideal for use with adult butterflies.

L 919E Giant Swallowtail. .$18.81

L 919F Polydamas Swallowtail (Mar—Nov). .$14.63

 

 

L 919H Butterfly Habitat. Ideal for maintaining two or

three adult butterflies. Includes container with escape-

proof lid, climbing mat, and watering vial with wick.
Per set. .$6.65 ,

Flies and Mosquitos

L 920 Sarcophaga Larvae. Blow Fly. After a few
days, the larvae will pupate. Pupae eclose in about a
week. About 100 larvae per unit. Note: Shipped on
Saturday and Monday only.

Per unit. .$9.95

L 923 Blowfly Pupae. Each unit contains 25 to 30
pupae. Adults will emerge in about 1 week.
Per unit. .3620

L 930 House Fly Larvae. Mature and pupate 3 to 5
days after receiving order. Unit of 100 larvae. With
instructions.

Per unit. .3805

 

L 932 House Fly Pupae. Mature at room temperature
and eclose 3 or 4 days after being received. Unit of 150
pupae. With instructions.

Per unit. .$8.05

  

L 919H Butterfly Habitat
L 934 House Fly Culture. Enough pupae to set up a

demonstration house fly culture. With instructions.
Per culture. .$9.90

Sarcophaga Pupae. White-eyed pupae of S. bul/ata
will mature at room temperature and eclose in 1 to 2
weeks. About 250 pupae per 100 cm3.

17-3480 50 cm“. .$8.81 17-3484 250 cm3.'.$43.55
17-3482 100 cm". .$19.78 17-3486 500 cm3. .$79.98

 

L 940 Carolina Instant House Fly Medium. For
rearing house fly larvae. Clean and easy to use. One
liter supports 2000 to 3000 larvae. 1—Iiter bag.
Instructions.

Per bag. .8730

 

Observe Nature at Work with ants from Carolina...

 

 

 

L 1050 Ant Farm. Everything needed to set up your
own complete ant farm. This ant farm can also be
connected to any number of other connectable ant
farms. Each comes complete with four portals and
four lock-tight caps, clear flexible Antway® travel
tubes, an improved wider base, and sterile, white
tunneling sand. Also includes an illustrated ant watch-
er’s manual and a stock certificate good for a generous
supply of hardworking harvester ants.

Per kit. .$16.07

 
     
  
    
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 

WW" I.» "i'

 

L 1052 Giant Ant Farm. Everything needed to set up

your own complete giant ant farm. Includes sand,

food, instructions, and coupon for delivery of ants.
Per kit. .$24.24

L 1052A Sand and Food Refill. For L 1052 Ant Farm.
Each. .8360

L 1053 Ant City Kit. Modules with built-in magnifiers
can be interconnected in various combinations. In—
cludes coupon for delivery of ants, six modules, sand,
tubing, tweezers, food, and instructions.

Per kit. .$23.57

Ants. Species not identified. Residents of AZ, H/, and
TN must apply for USDA permit to receive ants (we will
supply necessary information and forms.)

L 1054 Ants. Unit of 100 to 200. (Not for use with ant farms).
Per unit. 818.60

L 1054A Ants. Replacement unit for L 1050 Ant Farm.
Per unit. .8520

L 10548 Ants. Replacement unit for L 1052 Giant Ant Farm and
L 1053 Ant City Kit.

Per unit. .3750

Note: Ants cannot be shipped into Canada.

 

 

 

 




 

a“- A

 

 

 

 

 

 

L 1001 Mosquito Larva. Photographed with oblique
transillumination.

  

L 1125 Honey Bees

L 999 Mosquito Egg Rafts. Culex. Each raft contains
about 50 eggs. Available year-round. In warm weath-
er, some eggs may hatch in transit. See permit
requirements given in L 1001.

Each. .$8.84

L 1000 Mosquito Pupae. Cu/ex. Available year-
round. See permit requirements given in L 1001.
Per 12. .5795; 25. 312.40

L 1001 Mosquito Larvae. Culex. Laboratory reared.
Residents of AZ, HI, and TN must apply for USDA
permit to receive this material (we will supply neces-
sary information and forms.)

Per 25. 39.60; 50. 816.10; 100. .$34.10

 

 

L 1080 Jewel wasp parasitizing
Sarcophaga

L 1002 Mosquito Life Cycle Set. Includes eggs,

larvae, and pupae. We will ship as many stages as

available. See permit requirements given in L 1001.
Per set. .$10.30

L 1003 Mosquito Diet. Excellent food for all stages of
the mosquito larvae. 1 02.
Each. .$2.60

Wasps and Bees

L 1075 Biological Control of Flies BioKit® For a
class of 30. The jewel wasp, Mormoniella, is parasitic
on several species of fly pupae. With this kit students
discover that parasitism of blow fly (Sarcophaga)
pupae by the jewel wasp results in the emergence of
fewer adult Sarcophaga.
Jewel Wasp Culture
Sarcophaga Pupae
Glass Marking Pencil
30 Vials
Per kit. .$37.35

L 1076 Jewel Wasp Observation Set. Shows life
cycle of a non-social wasp and biological control of
insect pests. The jewel wasp cannot sting humans.
With instructions.

3 Parasitized Sarcophaga Puparia

(at least 25 wasp pupae)

Unit Nonparasitized Sarcophaga Pupae

Observation Cup

30 Bioreviewﬁ‘ Sheets (42-4582)

Per set. .$20.90

30 Foam Plugs
30 Student Guides
Teacher’s Manual

Living Hnimols 25

L 1078 Parthenogenesis Kit. Demonstrates arrhenot-
okous parthenogenesis in which unmated female jewel
wasps produce male offspring.

Jewel Wasp Culture

Sarcophaga Pupae

2 Culture Cups

Brush and Probe

Black Sorting Card

Each. 820.50

L 1080 Jewel Wasp. A small parasitic wasp which
cannot sting humans. At least 50 wasps shipped in
early parasitic stage inside Sarcophaga puparia. With
instructions. Order 17-3480 Sarcophaga Pupae if
culture is to be maintained.

Per unit. .3798

See Genetics Section for other jewel wasp listings.

L 1100 Trichogramma minutans. A small parasitic
wasp widely used in biological control. The wasp
parasitizes eggs of a number of insect species,
including the tobacco hornworm and the wax moth.
Parasitized eggs of the tobacco hornworm are
shipped. About 5 T. minutans adults will emerge from
each hornworm egg.

Per 25 Parasitized Hornworm Eggs. .$10.11
Per 50 Parasitized Hornworm Eggs. .$19.17
Per 100 Parasitized Hornworm Eggs. .$35.10

L 1101 Trichogramma Host. Refrigerated Hornworm

Eggs, Nonparasitized. For rearing T. minutans (L

1100). Not suitable for culturing tobacco hornworm

larvae. About 5 T. minutans can complete develop-

ment in one hornworm egg. Vial of 500 to 750 eggs.
Per vial. .$9.50

L 1125 Honey Bee Colony. Two pounds of bees with
queen (about 6,000 bees), shipped in wooden box,
51/2 x 12 x 3" deep. Instructions included. Available
east of the Mississippi only.

Per colony, f.o.b. shipping point. .$91.80*

*Nofe: Information should be furnished for arrival date of
living bees. Live delivery guaranteed, March 25—November 1
of any year. Will ship from November 1—March 25 at
customer’s risk only.

 

Freshwater Fish

We ship only first quality material. As some of
the plants and animals are seasonal and do not
appear at their best throughout the year, we
reserve the right to make substitutions when it
seems advisable. Any substitutions will be equal
in value and appearance to those listed.

Kits and Sets

Cold-Water Ornamentals

L 1250 Goldfish Assortment. Our choice of six
goldfish. At least two varieties are represented.
Per set. .$9.60

L 1252 Goldfish Plant Assortment. Selected'for
sturdiness in a 20-gal aquarium containing goldfish.

8 CerafophyI/um

8 Sagittaria

8 Vallisneria

3 Cryptocoryne

2 Underwater Banana Plants
2 Water Lilies

Per set. .$28.06

 

 

 

WCarolinaEE
Instant Fish

Just add water,
see fish hatch
in about 90 minutes.

L 1303 Instant Fish Kit. An exciting demonstra-
tion of fish life cycles and ecological adaptation.
Students simulate the natural environment of the
annual killifish Nothobianchius. Eggs hatch in 90
minutes. Complete with hatching medium, plas-
tic containerfortish, pipet, food, and coupon for
delivery of instant fish eggs. Instructions in-
cluded.
Per kit. .$19.95

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

26 Carolina Biological Supply Company

 

L 1320 Largemouth Bass

L 1254 Goldfish Aquarium Kit. Designed for keeping
goldfish. With instructions.

All-glass 20-gal Aquarium

Full Fluorescent Hood with Tube

Power Filter

Large Net

Goldfish Food

Water Conditioner

Waterworn Pebbles (Precleaned)

Per kit. 8115.98

L 1256 Complete Goldfish Kit. Combines our L 1250
Goldfish Assortment, L 1252 Goldfish Plant Assort-
ment, and L 1254 Goldfish Aquarium Kit.

Per kit. 8148.98

L 1258 Bass Habitat Kit. Everything needed to set up
your own game fish habitat.

2-gal Aquarium 2 Bass
Undergravel Filter Snails
Air Pump Plant

Airline Tubing Gravel

Per kit. .$22.85

L 1300 Ornamental Fish Set. Our choice of six fish (at
least two different types) suitable for a community
tank.

Per set. 810.43

Tropicals

L 1306 Tropical Fish Set. Our choice of 12 tropical
fish (at least three different types) suitable for a
community tank.

Per set. .$26.45

We have a large selection of aquaria and aquarium
accessories to fill every need and budget. Check our
many index listings under “Aquarium. ” We also have
prepared fish foods listed under Animal Foods.

Individual Fish
Cold-Water Ornamentals

Our cold-water ornamental fish are selected for
hardiness in aquaria maintained at room tempera-
tures. Please keep in mind that these fish do not ship
well during hot weather. The indicated length of a fish
includes the tail fin.

L 1320 Largemouth Bass. Can be used in aquaria and
outdoor pools and for toxic studies. Length, 1 to 3".
Available Mar. to Nov.

Per 3. .8860

L 1322 Bluegill. A small gamefish used for aquaria
and in toxic studies. Length, 1 to 2".
Per 3. .8585

L 1325 Blue Channel Catfish. lcta/urus ponctatus. A
slender, bluish-gray fish that is a good bottom
scavenger. Length, 1 to 2".

Per 3. .$6.20

L 1348 Minnow. Primarily used for toxic tests.
Length, 1 to 2”. Available Sept. to April.
Per 25. 87.99; 100. 82850

L 1322 Bluegill

L 1350 Comet Goldfish. Carassius auratus. Usually
deep orange in color, but occasionally mottled black or
white in various combinations.

Per6..$6.55; 12..$11.65

L 1358 Fantail Goldfish. A double-tailed fish that is
orange or orange and white.
Per 3. .$4.70; 12. 817.66

L 1360 Fantail Goldfish. Same as L 1358 but 3 to 5”
long.
Each. .6635

L 1368 Koi. This cyprinid, known as the Japanese
colored carp, has many color varieties. It is good for
the aquarium and is an excellent pool specimen.
Length, 2 to 3".

Per 3. .6885

L 1325 Blue Channel Catfish

L 1350 Comet

 

L 1358 Fantail

We offer a complete supply of high protein, vitamin-
enriched flake fish foods. Check the Index under
Foods, Fish for page number.

 

Carolina

Fancy
Oriental
Goldfish

oExofic and Unique
oHeaIthy and Vigorous
oReasonab/y Priced

Carolina Fancy Oriental Goldfish. These are
among the most exotic and unique goldfish in
the world. They are bred for vigor and beauty.
Length, 2 to 3”.

L 1364 Bubble Eye. 81695

L 13648 Chinese Lionhead. .$16.95

L 1364C Blue Jay Oranda. 812.55

L 1364F lied Oranda. 812.55

    

L 1364C Blue Jay Oranda

 

       

a...

a. . f) "._ y ‘ .. _
- .';~o-‘." ‘5 = 25 ﬁrst: has. tits-w.
L 1364 Bubble Eye

 

 

L 1364F Red Oranda

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

L 1397 Plecostomus Sucker

Tropicals

0ur tropical fish are selected for hardiness in the
classroom and should be maintained at highertemper-
atures than our cold-water ornamentals.

L 1372 Tiger Barb. A gold-colored fish with wide black
vertical stripes; fins are red-tipped. A lively fish that is
generally nonaggressive, but will nip fish with long
ﬂowing fins.

Per3..$8.55; 12..$31.35

L1372c Blind Cave Fish. This fish has no eyes, but
because of its well developed sense of smell, it is an
excellent fish for a community tank.

Per 3. .$10.05

L‘1373M Male Betta splendens. Known as the
Siamese fighting fish, the male has been used
extensively in behavioral studies. Males must be kept
separate from other Betta splendens.

Each..$6.75

L 1373T Chinese Algae Eater. Excellent for eliminat-
ing algae in your aquarium.
Each. .$4.96; 3. .$11.15

L 1378 Dwarf Gouramis. A small anabantoid that
bmlds a bubble-nest at breeding time. Nonaggressive.
Ideal for embryological study.

Per3. .$10.45

L 1379 Gambusia. Livebearer. Sometimes called the

mosquito fish. It is a very hardy fish that can withstand

a wide range of temperatures. Usually pale gray With 3

blmsh cast. Not recommended fora community tank.
Per 12. .$7.50; 50. $24.60

L 1380A Fancy Guppy. A guppy bred for more color
and finnage.
Per 3. .$7.30

L 1383A Weather Loach. The behavior of this
bottom-dwelling fish changes during changes in the
barometric pressure.

Per 3. .$14.55

 

L 1372C Blind Cave Fish

 

L 1379 Gambusia

  

L 1400 White Cloud

   

L 1380A Fancy Guppy

L 1410 Zebra

L 1397 Plecostomus Sucker. An excellent bottom
scavenger.
Each..$6.70; 3. .$19.55

L 1400 White Cloud. Danios. A smalltegg-scatterer
with silver body and red at base of fins. Very active,
but nonaggressive.

Per 3. .$6.55; 12. .$24.00

L 1410 Zebra Fish. Danios. A small, very active,
egg-laying fish with horizontal stripes. Nonaggres-
sive.

Per6..$10.45; 12..$19.80

Other Aquarium Animals

L 1415 Dwarf Aquarium Frog. Small aquatic frog ideal
for use in aquaria.
Each. .$2.45; 3. .$6.80

We have a large selection of aquaria in various styles
and sizes that are well suited for holding medaka and
other freshwater and marine fish. Please consult the
index for pages.

  

L 1373M Male Betta splendens

 

 

Living animals 21

     

L 1373T Chinese Algae Eater

 

L 1383A Weather Loach

 

L 1415 Dwarf Aquarium Frog

Medaka (Oryzias latipes)

The medaka, a hardy freshwater killifish, thrives in the
aquarium. Adults are 2 to 4 cm in length. Breeding
occurs naturally April to October but can be induced in
any season by regulating light and temperature. Less
than 10 days conditioning are required to achieve this
induced breeding. Fertile egg clusters may be plucked
daily from breeding females. The clear eggs are
unsurpassed for demonstrating meroblastic cleavage
and typical teleostean development.

Please designate shipping dates on orders for living
eggs and adult fish. Residents of Hi must apply for
USDA permit to receive this material. We will supply
necessary information and forms.

L 1421 Medaka Breeding Set. Includes 6 female
adults, 4 male adults, and detailed instructions.
Per set. .$28.49

 

 

Hatched larva (1 1 days)

 

Medaka embryos developed at 25° C and photographed alive: (left to right) 2 days, 21/2 days, 4 days.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

28 Carolina Biological Supply Company

 

Female medaka with eggs

L 1421A Medaka Egg Set. Eggs are selected each
morning from females breeding in a controlled en-
vironment and are shipped as early blastulae. Excel-
lent for studying vertebrate organogenesis and for
experimental physiology. Development is easily
observed with a stereomicroscope. Hatched larvae
can be reared to adults in small aquaria. With
instructions. Please give shipping date on order.
Vial of 12 Eggs (in special rearing soln.)
Dropping Pipet (73-6904)
Plastic Petri Dish, 4 Compartments (74-1534)
Japanese Medaka Booklet
Per set. .$14.97

L 1422 Medaka Aquarium Set. Includes 6 adult me-
dakas, our choice of sexes, and instruction booklet.
Per set. .$13.79

85-9451 Embryo Hearing Solution Concentrate. Unit
for 6 x 500 ml of solution.
Per unit. .$12.50; 12 units. .$125.00

L 1423 Medaka Complete Breeding Kit. Apparatus
and chemicals are sent when ordered. Living materials
follow as separate shipment for use on the date you
specify. Allow yourself time for aquarium setup.

Medaka Breeding Set (L 1421)
15 g Brine Shrimp Eggs
Aquarium Snails and Plants
Aquarium (2-3 gal) with Reflector Lid
Aquarium Lamp Bulb, 15-w clear (67-1530)
Hanging Thermometer (67-1920)
Aquarium Net (67-1950)
Chlorine Neutralizer (67-1990)
20 9 Dry Mixed Fish Food
Coarse Quartz Sand and Gravel
2 Watchmaker’s Forceps (62-4784)
China and Glass Pencil, Red (65-7730)
Erlenmeyer Flask, 500 ml (72-6694)
Cork
10 Dropping Pipets, 41/2" (73-6904)
Culture Dish, 41/2” (74-1004)
20 Plastic Petri Dishes (74-1534)
Vial Toothpicks
40 g Marine Salts
Aquarium Bottom Filter, Small
Embryo Rearing Solution Concentrate (85-9451)
Japanese Medaka Booklet

Per kit. .$114.27

 

L 1424F Frog Habitat

L 1425 Necturus

Amphibians

Amphibian Foods: See Animal Foods in the Apparatus

 

Section; check Index for pages.

Habitats

L 1424A Amphibian Habitat. Designed for maintain-
ing small terrestrial amphibians in the classroom.

With instructions.

10-gallon, All-glass Aquarium
Fluorescent Hood and Tube

Tree Branch

Substrate

Water Bowl
Per set. .$69.98

L 1424F Frog Habitat. Includes L 1424A Habitat and

three small adult frogs. With instructions.

Per set. .$75.75

L 14245 Salamander Habitat. Includes L 1424A
Habitat and three adult salamanders. With instruc-

tions.
Per set. .$76.95

 

L 1450 Axolotl Larvae

 

 

L 1427 Siren

Salamanders

L 1425 Necturus maculosus. A large neotenic sala-
mander available from November 15 through May 1.
Per3..$19.60; 12.56820

L 1427 Siren. A large aquatic salamander whose name
is derived trom the siren-like sound it emits when
being captured. Size, 10 to 24”.

Each. . $28.00

L 1445 Salamanders. Land phase specimens. Our
selection of species.
Per3..$12.25; 12.84180

L 1448 Salamander Eggs. Usually found in February.

Shipped in units of 50 to 100 eggs. Breeding is

weather influenced: Orders should be placed by the

end of January, with the date left open for us to ship

the eggs as available in January. February, or March.
Per unit. .$12.20

L 1449 Salamander Larvae. Field collected, species
not guaranteed. Available from January to May.
Per 12. $10.40

L 1450 Axolotl Larvae. Ambystoma mexicanum. Size.
1 to 4 cm. Order one week in advance of use date.
Per 3. .$15.65

L 1450A Adult Axolotl. Laboratory bred. An excellent
animal for research and classroom study.
Each. .$51.20

 

  

L 1445 Salamander

 




ala-
l 1.

me
ten

lur

 

L 1452 Newt (Triturus viridescens)

 

“'-

L 1493E Tadpole Metamorphosis Set

L'1452 Newt. Aquatic. Triturus (Notophtha/mus)
wridescens is usually shipped from North Carolina,
Taricha sp. from Oregon.

Per3..$6.50; 12.32195

Ar"llhiuma. Congo eel. One of the largest salaman-
ders. The red blood cells are the largest of any animal.
Sections of liver make excellent demonstrations of
"the cell" and nucleus.

L 1460 Amphiuma. Not sexed.
Each. $23.67; 3. .$63.98

L 1461 Male Amphiuma.
Each. .$25.56; 3. 668.95

L 1462 Female Amphiuma.
Each. 625.56; 3. $68.95

Frogs

Frag Eggs
L 1490 Fr0!) Eggs. Artificially fertilized in our labora-
tory orfieId-collected. In either case, eggs shipped will
be in the earliest stages allowed by conditions at time
0f,Sh|Dment. in units of 75 to 100 eggs. Shipped on
Fr’dal’ or Monday only.

Per unit. 616.99

L 1490A Frog EggS, Field-Collected. (Peeper or Toad
Eggs), Excellent for demonstrating the frog life cycle.
DWEIOpment from 999 to young frog is very rapid and
Wm be completed by the time school is out. Not
Tecommended for egg development studies. Shipped
En units 0‘ 50 to 100 eggs. Breeding is weather
gmlleneed; Shipped in February, March, and April
y.

Per unit. .$12.70

Tadpoles

L 1492 Early Tadpoles. Larval stages and young
tadpoles. Excellent for embryology, experimental
work, and micro slides.

Per 12. .$7.85; 25. .$13.60; 50. .$27.25

 

 

L 1460 Amphiuma

Buélfrog Tadpoles. Field-collected; species not identi-
ie .

L 14923 Bullfrog Tadpoles.
Per6..$5.60; 12..$10.15; 50..$34.50

L 1492E Large Bullfrog Tadpoles. 2 to 4” long.
Per6..$11.25; 12..$19.96; 25..$34.40

L 1492G Two-legged Bullfrog Tadpole. Tadpoles with
small to medium length hind limbs. Available January
through June only.

Per 12. .$19.99; 25. .$35.00

 

Fastro® Frog Egg Kit. For studying the com-
plete life cycle of Ceratophrys ornata from egg to
» frog. This amazing frog completes metamor-
phdsis in just two weeks at 28° 0. Kit contains
fertilized eggs and enough food (blackworms) to
v-"lastvthrough metamorphosis. Because of rapid
development, eggs will arrive in late stages of
. development. With instructions and exercises.
Shipped on Monday and Tuesday only. We rec-
' 1 ommend our FastGro Frog Habitat (L 1479) for
' raising C.ornata. Eggs may hatch during ship-
ing.
p L 1474 Student Kit (8 eggs). .S15.95
L 1475 Classroom Kit (25 eggs). 639.95

(Minimum shipping charge of $15.00)

FﬂX YOUR ORDER
919 5815-3399

 

 

Living animals 29

 

Frog Eggs

L 1493 Tadpoles, Hind Limb Bud Stage. Larvae for
demonstrating early metamorphosis with thyroid or
iodine treatment. With instructions.

Per 12. .$9.85; 25. .$18.50; 100. .$65.80

Tadpole Metamorphosis Set. Can be used with any
hind limb bud stage tadpole to increase metamorphic
rate. Enough materials for 32 tadpoles. Includes 16
culture bowls, thyroxin, 1% NaOH, dropping bottle,
net, tadpole food, and instructions.

L 14930 Set only. .$19.60

L 1493E Set with 32 tadpoles. .$44.90

 

 

, The Remarkable .F‘lStG '10.? ¥   Frog
V Egg to Tadpole to Frog iinr‘j‘u'st 14days!

Fast development and easy mamtenanoemake
FastGro® Frogs ideal for studyingc/ea Vage and early 7‘5"

development and the frog life cycle. *

L 1477 Fastemf’ Frog EmbryologySet For 75""

studying the embryological» Stages 3010. j ornate.

Contains'25 fertilized eggs shipped .On :iCe tozhalt. *‘i‘ f

development». Shipped 0n MondayandTuesday . ‘

000’- ' ~ ~ f .. i.
Per set. .$33.95 ’ ‘

L 1479 Eastern Frog-Habitat. Designedngr
growing the C. ornate from, egg toyoung adult.,.f
Includes aquarium, with lid,ﬂf0am”filteri, airline" “
tubing-air pdmp, heater, water ConditiOner, and * ‘ *
floating thermometer. ' * ’ '
Per set.-$25.95 . ~ , » . ..
L 1482 Eastern Frog Fund. The immature
stages at .C. ornate thrive ’on the California ,
blackworm (Limbricilus). About 50,000 worms .
per lb. Alsogood forfeeding, otheramphibians, ,
fish, andreptiles. .
Per lb. .$19.95

 

 

 

 




? . 30 Carolina Biological Supply Company

 

' - Frogs
(GIOIIIIG Bullfrog: During the last several years, the supply of living frogs has been short from January through April. In an efforttg

alleviate this winter shortage, we have constructed special holding facilities to help us supply live frogs from

 

 

 

 

. Lab-r ear 9d! ' January through April. Frogs shipped from May through December are recently field-collected and are generally
' healthier than winter-stored frogs. .
» .. D I sease-f r eel In the table below we list frogs for breeding and frogs for general use. General use frogs are not smtable for
3 0 * . - induced breeding exercises. .
l f Avallgfle year While every effort is made to ship as requested, exact delivery dates cannot be guaranteed because of
. 'roun ' difficulties involving field collection and weather.
l
l x
j Price Per
t I
‘ 3:13;: Name Description 5 12 100

 

Frogs Selected for Breeding

L 1493w Preiniected Frog Set Includes one injected female and Per set. $29.75
male. Shipped on Monday or
Friday only. Jan. 1 to Mar. 30.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

L 1494 Induced Breeding Set Includes female for eggs, male for Per set. S3760
sperm, 6 frogs for pituitary
L 1494E Pituitary Extract Six dried frog glands; for inducing Per vial. 513.80
ovulation in one or more frogs
L 1494K Pituitary Kit Pituitary extract, 1 male, 1 female Per kit. $27.40
l , . L 14955 Gravid Female Frog, lniected Injected with pituitary extract. Each. $24.00
) “mi , . 1 ' Shipped on Monday or Friday only,
j L 1503 21/2” Bullfrog. .$4.75 Jane 1 ‘0 Maf- 30-
L 1504 3” Bullfrog_ ,$10,45 L 1495F Female Frogs Mature females with eggs S49 00 $86.75
n L 1495M Male Frogs Selected mature males 24.82 43.90
t :33: g" 33:33:. $13.33 L "95" “"93 '°' ”'"i‘a'f Selected for glands 27.15 43.90
, Frogs for General Use
1 5 11495 X-Jumb0® Frogs Unsexed, body length 31/2 to 5" 38.08 59.12 $429.18
5‘ l l- 1498 Jumbo Frogs Unsexed, body length about 2% to 31/1" 28.37 45.60 329.75
‘ 1‘ 1‘ l- 1500 Large Frogs Unsexed, body length about 21/2" 2195 32.85 235.90
{ l 1502 Medium Frogs Unsexed, body length about 2" 18.79 29.00 207.95

 

Tadpole Food.Acomplete diet in pellet form. Will not Breeding Set Xenopus (African Clawed Frog)
decay and foul water as quickly as leafy foods.

L 1493111 250 g, 33.50; L 1493p 500 g, .3520 L 1510 Induced Breeding Instrument Set. Instru- Residents of California mustapp/y for a USDA permit

j ments for performing induced breeding experiments to receive Xenopus. Residents of Arizona must apply

'- 14939 Amphibian Anesthetic. Atemporary anes- with frogs. With instructions. Order breeding frogs fora permit from the Arizona Game and Fish Dept. to
thetlc and tranqumzer for amphibians and other

 

 

ld bl d d . l 2 from Table on preceding page. receive Xenopus.
coPer ugh) e$6 agglma s. g. :12 Disgosable C(Uéture DiShes (74-1354) L 1542 Raise A Frog Students can raise a small frog
-- - eavy cissors 2-2710) ' ' - -
, . Fine Scissors (52-1325) from a tadpole. Includes tadpoles, smallp'aSt'C
'- 1493T Thyroxrne Powder. Enough for ngth ex- Forceps (62-4024) aquarium, food. colored gravel, and instructlons.
Denmenfs Wlth 32 tadpoleS- 2 Medicine Droppers (73-6900) Per kit. .5780
1 Per "n't' '33'15 33215552533: (:7? 221211171200) L 1545 Xenon 81 d I“ X “EV/'5 “dents can
‘ 1 . - . - us u y l . . .
, Holtfreter 8 Solution. See Holtfreter 3 Standard Solu- S ,in 8 70-3505 ~ ' ' two oung
’ tion, 100% in the Chemicals Section. v 9 ( ) observe the habit of Xenopus. Kit includes Y

Hypodermic Needles (70-3524) Xenopus, plastic aquarium with lid, Xenopus f00dl
Pond Water. Ideal for maintaining tadpoles, salaman- Per set' '319'98 and '“3trUCti0n5-
der larvae, frog eggs, and aquatic insects. Collected Per klt- 1531-35
daily from our spring-fed ponds.
16-3380 Per gal. .$2.65
16-3380 4 x1 gal. .$7.10
16-3382 5-gal Carboy. .S7.70

Tree Frog

lllllllllllllil

\'

 

L 1508 Tree Frog. Hyla. Excellent for the terrarium. ' .1.
. , Available Mar. to Nov. ' L" . ' .
l ‘ Per3..$9.50; 6..$19.10 "

 

 

We unconditionally
guarantee all
our products

 

 

L 1542 Ra'se-A-F A, H H I ' I
l rog L 1550 Xenopus Breeding Kit

 

 




 

 

Xenopus Breeding Kit. Materials for breeding X.
laevis. Includes instructions for breeding and for care
and handling of adults and tadpoles.
Aquarium with False Bottom
Aquarium Cover
5000 lU Gonadotrophin
2 Disposable Syringes with Needles
Pkg Adult Food
Pkg Tadpole Food
L 1549 Kit only. 847.00
L 1550 Kit with male and iemale Xen0pus. .$80.40

L 1550B Xenopus Replacement Set. Contains re-
placements for the expendable portions of L 1550.
5000 lU Gonadotrophin
2 Disposable Syringes with Needles
Pkg Adult Food
Pkg Tadpole Food
Per set. $23.25

L 1551 Chorionic Gonadotrophin. For use in inducing
amplexus in Xenopus. 5000 IU vial.
Each. .$18.15

L 1553 Xenopus Life Cycle Set. includes as many
stages of tadpoles and small frogs as available.
Xenopus Eggs
6 Early Tadpoles
3 Hind Limb Bud Stage Tadpoles
2 Small Frogs
Per set. .$24.50

L 1557 Xenopus Eggs. Because of rapid development,
shipments will arrive in late stages of development.
Approximately 50 to 100 eggs. Shipped on Fridays
only.

Per unit. .$10.50

Xenopus Tadpoles. Laboratory-reared.
L 1558 Early (under 2 weeks). Per 25. .$10.50;
50. .$18.30; 100. 532.95
L 1559 Hind Limb Bud Stage. Per 6. .$7.90;
12. .$13.10

Young Xenopus Frogs. Laboratory-reared.
L 1564 1 to 2”. Per 3. .$14.85
L 1566 2 to 3". Per 3. .$17.75

Adult Xenopus. Laboratory-reared for breeding.
L 1570 Female, 3 to 5”. .$18.79
L 1574 Male, 3 to 4". .$18.79
L 1575 Pair. .$35.00

Adult Albino Xenopus. Laboratory-reared for breed-
ing.

L 1576F Female, 3 to 5". .$31.35

L 1576M Male, 3 to 4”. 631.35

L 1576P Pair. .$59.60

Xenopus Replacements and Recommended Acces-
sories.

L 1577 Plastic Tank (w/false bottom). .$22.80

L 1577A Challenger Air Pump. .$6.45

L 15778 2-gang Valve. .8385

L 1577C Air Stone Dittuser. .$ .86

L 15770 Disposable Syringe & Needles

(25 gauge, 5/s”). 84.60/10
L 1577E Airline Tubing (8 it). .3160
L 1577F Xenopus Breeding Lab Manual. .8140

Xenopus Tadpole Food. Complete diet for tadpoles.

L 1580 250 g..$2.99
Lum1 mmg.s4&s
L1%2 zunsnas
LmM 50m upon

Xenopus Postmetamorphic Food. Complete diet.

L1586 250 g..$2.99
L 1587 son g..$4.85
L1%8 2m sues
L 1590 5015..$59.oo

Living animals 31

 

Xenopus left to right: L 1570 Adult Female, L 1566 Young Frog, and L 1574 Adult Male

Xenopus Adult Food. Complete diet.

L 1592 250 9. .$2.99
L 1593 500 9. .$4.85
L1594 2kg..$11.25
L 1595A 50 lb. .$59.00

Toads
Permit requirements same as for Xenopus.

L 1596 Giant Toad. Bufo mar/nus. Body length 10—1 2
cm; usually males. Easy to maintain in an inclined tank
with water at one end. Requires little care beyond
occasional feeding with live insects. Besides demon-
strating ecological responses and defense behavior,
this animal serves in studies of frog physiology.

Per 3. .$20.40; 6. .$40.23

L 1598 Giant Toad. Bufo mar/nus. Body length over
12 cm; usually females.
Per 3. .$24.50; 6. .$45.75

L 1598E Small Toad. Bufo. Mixed species. Scarce
during winter months.
Per 3. .$9.50; 6. .$18.80

Reptiles

Reptile Foods: See Animal Foods in the Apparatus Section;
see Index for pages.

 

Please Note: Living turtles and snakes cannot
be shipped by the U.S. Postal Service. These
items will be shipped Air Freight with a
minimum shipping charge of $50.00. Catalog
prices are f.o.b. Waubun Laboratories,
Schriever, Louisiana.

 

 

 

 

L 1598E Small Toad

Habitat

L 1599 Large Reptile Habitat. Designed for maintain-

ing large lizards, snakes, and turtles. includes all-

glass 29-gal tank, incandescent hood with bulbs, tree

branch, water bowl, substrate, and instructions.
Per set. .$112.75

Turtles

Residents of Canada must apply for a Canadian Dept.
Agriculture permit to receive living turtles.

L 1600 Turtles. Chrysemys sp. Large, 8 to 10
inches. Shipped via Air Freight.
Each. .$13.25; 3. .$34.00; 12. .$100.70

L 1604 Turtles. Chrysemys sp. Medium, 6 to 8
inches. Shipped via Air Freight.
Each. .$11.63; 3. .$30.56; 12. .$90.64

L 1608 Turtles. Chrysemys sp. Small,~4 to 6 inches.
Shipped via Air Freight.
Each. .$10.06; 3. .$25.81; 12. .$76.50

 

L 1598 Giant Toad

  

.L ~:‘

L 1600 Turtle

 

 

  

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

32

 

 

L 1610 Box Turtle

L 1610 Box Turtle. Terrapene carolina. Over 4” in
length. Available only April to October.
Each. .$10.00; 3. .$25.00

(Add 50¢ each for sexing and 50¢ each for identification by species.)

ew
N Aquatic Turtle Food. A balanced food for all aquarium
or pond turtles as well as other meat-eating reptiles.
Mix as directed with boiling water. 1 02 makes about 6
02.
L 1615 102. .6250
L 1616 1.6 lb. .$25.00
g‘N

Land Turtle and Iguana Food. Provides a well-
balanced diet for land turtles and other plant-eating
reptiles. Mix as directed with boiling water. 1 02 makes
about 6 oz.

L1617 1oz..$2.50

L 1618 1.6 lb. .$25.00

Snakes

L 1630 Snake Habitat. Designed for maintaining small
snakes in the classroom. With instructions.
10-gallon, All-glass Aquarium
Incandescent Hood and Bulbs
Tree Branch
Substrate
Water Bowl

Per set. .$66.45

L 1630G Garter Snake Habitat. Includes L 1630
Habitat and one L 1644 Garter Snake. With instruc-
tions.

Per set. .$68.75 ($6.75 packing charge)

L 1640 Snakes. Large, over 24 inches. Nonpoison-
ous, our choice of species. Shipped via Air Freight.
Each. .$15.38; 3. .$44.04; 6. 683.48

L 1641 Snakes. Small, 12 to 24 inches. Nonpoison-
ous, our choice of species. Shipped via Air Freight.
Each. .$13.74; 3. .$39.40; 6. .$74.78

Corolino Biological Supply Company

 

L 1659 Anolis sagrei

 

L 1666 Skink

L 1644 Garter Snake. Adult Thamnophis. Shipped
via Air Freight.
Each. .$15.12; 3. .$43.07; 6. .$81.59

Lizards

L 1648 Chameleon Starter Kit. Includes cage, tree
branch, water dish, and three Anolis.
Per kit. .$32.20

L 1650 Small Lizard Habitat. Designed for maintain-
ing Anolis and other small lizards. With instructions.
All-glass 10-gal Tank with Lid
Incandescent Hood with Bulbs
Tree Branch
Water Bowl
Substrate
Per set. .$59.98

L 16500 Anolis carolinensis Habitat. Includes L 1650
Habitat and six L 1655 Anolis.
Per set. .$71.04

L 1650B Small Lizard Habitat Refill. Includes bulbs,
tree branch, water bowl, and substrate.
Per set. $22.98

Anolis carolinensis. The American “chameleon.”
Anolis is easy to keep and is interesting because of its
habit of changing color.

L 1655 Anolis carolinensis. Small. Not sexed.
Per3..$9.25; 12..$34.15

L 1656 Anolis carolinensis. Mature, not sexed.
Per3..$11.90; 12.63999

L 1657 Anolis carolinensis. Mature male.
Each. .$4.75; 6. 626.90

L 1658 Anolis carolinensis. Mature female.
Each. .$4.75; 6. 62690

L 1659 Anolis sagrei. The brown “chameleon.” Like
the American “chameleon,” this lizard is easy to keep;
however, it always remains a shade of brown. Not
sexed.

Per 3. 612.10

 

m var-“7w. .7 rm" “
(Kirk-pay". 1.4.31. .— ‘
"It"; In},
f'L' 329'
' d ; I A

  

‘ ..

  
  

....

F

   

L 1677 Tokay Gecko

L 1666 Skink. An excellent lizard for the terrarium or
the Vivarium.
Each..$11.35

L 1667A Five-Lined Skink. Larger and more colorful
than our L 1666 Skink.
Each..$11.50

L 1668 Mediterranean Gecko. A pale, ghostly lizard
with large eyes and broad toe pads. An excellent
climber and a good choice for your classroom.
Available March through November.

Each. .6590

L 1677 Tokay Gecko. Large lizard from Southeast
Asra. Has large eyes for nocturnal hunting and feet
specialized for walking on vertical surfaces. Available
March through November.

Each. 620.85

In the Herpetology Equipment section of Apparatus
you / find our complete listing of snake hooks and
bags and reptile field sets.

 

 




 

 

 

Living ﬁnimals 33

 

 

L 1710 Chicken Embryology Kit

Chick Embryology and
Tissue Culture

Important. please note. Have your incubator regulated before
eggs arrive. Must receive order for eggs two weeks before use
date to guarantee customer’s delivery date.

Pleast Note: All animal tissue culture media and kits are for
laboratory use only and are not to be used for human oranimal
diagnostic purposes.

L 1700 Early Chick Embryology Kit. For 2 to 6
students. Fertile chicken eggs are incubated and the
embryos’ development studied at approximately 24,
48, and 72 hours of incubation. This kit requires the
use of an egg incubator (not included). With instruc-
tions. Contains perishable material; please give use
date on order. Eggs shipped separately from appa-
ratus and chemicals on Tuesdays only.

12 Fertile Chicken Eggs

20 Petri Dishes

Packet Sodium Chloride

30 ml Neutral Red, 0.2%

4 Culture Cups

4 Widemouthed Droppers

Per kit. .$32.14

L 1705 Late Chick Embryology Kit. For 2 to 6
students. Fertile chicken eggs are incubated for 72
hours, removed from their shells, and transferred to
petri dishes. Embryos are incubated and development
is observed over a period of several days. This kit
requires the use of an egg incubator (not included).
With instructions. Contains perishable material;
please give use date on order. Eggs shipped separately
from apparatus and chemicals on Tuesdays only.

12 Fertile Chicken Eggs

60 Alcohol Swabs

32 oz Ringer Solution, Chicken (sterile with antibiotics)

Disposable Beaker

Triangular File

24 Petri Dishes

180 ml Alcohol, 70%

Per kit. .$52.53

L 1710 Chicken Embryology Kit. For 2 to 6 students. A
combination of Early and Late Chick Embryology Kits
(L 1700 and L 1705). For observing development from
24 hours to almost hatching. Requires the use of an
egg incubator (not included). Contains perishable
material; please give use date on order. Eggs shipped
separately from apparatus and chemicals on Tuesdays
on y.

Per kit. .$84.67

L 1715 Chick Embryo Tissue Culture Kit

L 1715 Chick Embryo Tissue Culture Kit. With fertile
chicken eggs. For two or more students to establish
tissue cultures from whole 5-day incubated chick
embryos and from various organs of 10-day incubated
embryos. Kit requires the use of an egg incubator (not
included). Contains perishable material; please give
use date on order. Eggs shipped separately from
apparatus and chemicals on Tuesdays only.

L 1718 Tissue Culture Media Set

L 1726 Fertile Chicken Eggs (12)

2 Small Rubber Bulbs ‘

Large Rubber Bulb

2 Forceps

3 Scalpels

3 Replacement Scalpel Blades

36 Microscope Slides

15 ml Neutral Red

8 Sterile Culture Tubes with Caps

20 Sterile Culture Tubes with Coverslip Inserts and Caps

60 Alcohol Swabs

Glass Stirring Rod

30 Sterile 1-ml Pipets

20 Sterile 10-ml Pipets

10 Sterile Tissue Culture Flasks

40 Petri Dishes

1 liter Alcohol (70%)

Glass Marking Pencil

2 Organ Culture Dishes with Grids

2 Tubes Sterile Distilled Water

2 Teasing Needles (one straight, one bent)

Per kit. .$166.74

L 1718 Tissue Culture Media Set. Replacement media

for use in L 1715 Chick Embryo Tissue Culture Kit.

Contains 100 ml Hanks’ Balanced Salt Solution with

antibiotics, 100 ml Versene, 100 ml Medium 199 with

antibiotics, and 10 ml CMRL 1066 with antibiotics.
Per set. .S36.93 ‘

Animal Tissue Culture Media. Select individual media
from the following listing.

Hank’s Balanced Salt Solution.
L 1720 100 ml. .$7.30
L 1720A 500 ml. $25.88

Medium 199. In Hank’s 888 with 25 mm hepes buffer.
L 17203 100 ml. .$16.30
L 17200 500 ml. .$51.35

CMRL 1066. With L-glutamine.
L 1720E 10 ml. .$3.13
L 1720F 100 ml. .$15.72
L 17200 500 ml. .$47.13

Versene 1:5000. In isotonically buffered solution.
L 1720H 100 ml. .$8.00
L 1720K 500 ml. .$24.00

L 1726 Fertile Chicken Eggs. Suitable for incubation.
Fertility will vary with the season (highest fertility
Feb—June). Perishable; we must receive your orderat
least two weeks in advance of use date. Shipped on
Tuesdays only. Unit of 12 eggs.

Per unit. .$13.45

L 1726A Fertile Chicken Egg Set. Includes 12 fertile L
1726 Eggs and seven 35mm transparencies showing
the hatching process. Perishable; shipped on Tues-
days only.

Per set. .$22.46

L 1726G Fertile Sex-linked Chicken Eggs. An excel-
lent demonstration of sex-linkage. F1 of barred x
non-barred or red x silver, our choice. Sexes can be
distinguished at hatching. Upon hatching, males of
the barred x non-barred cross are dark with a light spot
on top of their heads; females are solid dark. Upon
maturing, the males are barred, the females non-
barred. Males of the red x silver cross are white with
black stripes; females are red with black stripes. At
maturity, males are white, females red. We recom-
mend these eggs for use with our 20-4000 Testoster-
one Kit and for any exercise requiring sex identification
of chicks at hatching. Perishable. Unit of 12 eggs.
Available mid-Feb. to mid-Oct.
Per unit. .$15.55

L 1726K Sex-linked Chicks. Shipped when one day
old. Assortment of males and females, red or black
type, our choice. The black sex-linked females are
solid black and the males are black with a light spot on
the top of their heads. The red sex-linked females are
red and the males are lighter or white. Ideal for use
with 20-4000 Testosterone Kit, or with any exercise in
which it would be helpful to separate the sexes. Unit of
20 chicks. Available mid-Feb. to mid-Oct.
Per unit. .$38.80

L 1730 Chick Starter Kit. Students incubate fertile
chicken eggs for 21 days. After hatching, chicks are
placed in a brooder for students to observe. Includes
card for requesting delivery of fertile chicken eggs.

24 Fertile Chicken Eggs (L 1726)

Still-Air Incubator (70-1194)

Brooder (70-1230)

Per kit. .$230.00

L 1730A Chick Starter Kit with Transparencies.
Includes L 1730 Kit and seven 35mm transparencies
showing the complete hatching process.

For kit. .$238.55

 

 




 

 

 

 

34 Carolina Biological Supply Company

 

 

L 1730 Chick Starter Kit

L 1740 Fertile Quail Eggs. Coturnix Quail eggs hatch
in 17 days; birds mature in 6 weeks. Perishable; we
must receive your order at least two weeks in advance
of use date. Twelve eggs per unit. Minimum order of
two units.

Per unit. .$13.00

L 1740A Fertile Quail Egg Set. Includes 24 fertile L
1740 Quail Eggs and seven 35mm transparencies
showing the complete hatching process. Perishable;
please give use date.

Per set. .$35.01

L 1745 Quail Starter Kit. Students incubate fertile
quail eggs for 17 days. After hatching, quail are placed
in brooder. Includes card for requesting delivery of
eggs.

24 Fertile Quail Eggs (L 1740)

Still-Air Incubator (70-1194)

Brooder (70-1226)

Per kit. .$185.50

 

L 2030 Hamster

 

L 2040 White Mouse

L 2060 White Rat

" a

L 1745 Quail Starter Kit

L 1745A Quail Starter Kit with Transparencies.
Includes L 1745 Kit and seven 35mm transparencies
showing the complete hatching process.

Per kit. .$194.05

Quail Food. Use our Baby Chick Starter (67—5700)
with our 67-5106 High Protein Supplement added.
See the Apparatus Section.

Mammals

All mammals are shipped via Air Freight. Orders
must be placed at least one week in advance.
Exact delivery dates cannot be guaranteed dur-
ing extreme/y cold or hot weather. Please give
two alternate shipping dates. Packing and ship-
ping charges are extra.

  
    

L 2051 New Zealand White Rabbit

 

 

L 2010 Gerbils. Young specimens. Residents of CA
must apply for USDA permit to receive this material.
Per 3. .$27.65

L 2030 Hamsters. Young specimens.
Per 3. .$19.00

L 2040 White Mice. Young albino specimens.
Per 6. .$31.35

L 2050 Dwarf Rabbit. Young specimen.
Each. . $28.65

L 2051 New Zealand White Rabbit. Young specimen,
4 to 5 lb.

Each. .$35.25

L 2060 White Hats. Small albino specimens.
Per 3. .$35.80

For Fast Service
(GILL TOLL FREE
800 334-5551

 

Corolina®
Living Wonders®
Hobitots

Each habitat contains:

0 plastic terrarium and lid
0 gravel and plant

0 water dish and food

0 2 animals of one kind:

Land Hermit Crab
Painted Lady Butterfly
African Frog Tadpole
Aqua Frog

Fantail Goldfish
American Chameleon

Living Wonders? Centificates
and Replacement Sets
also available

See the Aquaria and Terraria
Section (page 86) for details.

 

 

 

 

'7‘“

4 w—

.......w4 avg—

“A




 

 

 

LPS 340 Termite Flagellates (from Microscope Slide PS
340).

Parasitology Cultures

Protozoa

LPS 285 Trypansoma lewisi. This flagellated proto-
zoan, a cosmopolitan rat parasite, is shipped in the
blood of a living white rat. Rats with this culture are
shipped via Air Freight. Orders must be placed one
week in advance. Exact delivery dates cannot be
guaranteed during extremely cold or hot weather.
Please give two alternate shipping dates. Packing and
shipping charges are extra.
Per rat. .$53.75

LPS 286 Sodium Citrate Solution. A blood anticoagu-
lant used fortransferring blood infected with Trypano-
some lewisi. Each tube contains about 10 ml.

Per 6 tubes. .$9.15

LPS 295 Crithidia fasciculala. Anopheles isolate. A
hardy trypanosomid flagellate which is easily cultured
at room temperature. Excellent for demonstrating the
morphology of the crithidial type which occurs in the
insect phase of the life history of most trypanosomes.
Nonpathogenic for humans.

Per culture. 89.95

LPS 295M Crithidia Medium. For growing 0. fasci-
culata. Instructions included.
Per 6 tubes. 87.45; 12. .$13.85

LPS 340 Termite Flagellates. A large variety of
protozoa are found in the intestine of the termite.
Residents of Canada must apply for a Canadian Dept.
Agriculture permit to receive this material.

Per 25 termites. .6820; 50. .$11.59; 100. $20.34

LPS 410 Gregarines. Mealworms naturally infected
with gregarines. Both the cephalonts, attached to the
intestinal wall, and the schizonts in the lumen of the
intestine are present in large numbers.

Per 50 mealworms. .8534; 100. .$7.14

Platyhelminths

LPS 1440 Cercariae. Living pond or river snails
infected with trematode maritae. Pond snails are
generally infected with a large xiphidiocercaria. River
snails have xiphidiocercaria, cotylocercus, pleuro-
Iophocercous, and occasionally schistosome or
strigeid cercariae during the summer and early fall.
These snails can be used to demonstrate the emergent
cercariae and then can be dissected to show eitherthe
sporocysts or rediae.
Per 6 snails. .$17.15; 12. .$31.65

LPS 1735 Hymenolepis diminuta

    

LPS 2435 Trichine/la spira/is from Micro- ‘7

scope Slide PS 2435.

LPS 1735 Hymenolepis diminuta. Cysticercoid in
adult beetles, Tenebrio. The cysticercoid occurs in the
body cavity of the host and may be dissected out in the
laboratory. The larvae can be fed to laboratory rats and
adult worms recovered in about 21 days.

Per 6 beetles. .$7.65; 12. 812.98; 25. 323.65

LPS 1740 Hymenolepis diminuta Eggs. Viable eggs
can be fed to adult Tenebrio (L 890) or to adult
Tribo/ium (L 900) in which the cysticercoid develops
within about 15 days. They can then be fed to a rat, and
will complete their development in about one month.
Eggs are supplied as they are recovered from the host,
each unit consisting of 50 cc of feces from heavily
infected animals.

Per unit. 311.50

LPS 1880 Cestode Eggs. Viable eggs of various
tapeworms can be used to demonstrate the hexacanth
larva intact. The typical hooks are difficult to distin-
guish in preserved material, but are easily demon-
strated in the living larva. Eggs are isolated and
shipped on moist filter paper. Each unit consists of
several hundred eggs.
Per unit. .$12.80

Nemathelminths

LPS 2056 Nippostrongylus brasiliensis Adult. Intes-
tinal nematode in the albino rat. A young rat is
subcutaneously injected with about 1000 larvae. The
infection matures in 5 to 7 days. Rats with this culture
are shipped via Air Freight on Monday and Tuesday
only. Orders must be placed two weeks in advance.
Exact delivery dates cannot be guaranteed during
extremely cold or hot weather. Please give two
alternate shipping dates. Packing and shipping
charges are extra.
Per rat. 856.40

Living animals 35

    

" . A".
’ " "ox.

‘ ’1333“: .

4 . 1 ”.23 , .4, “(a '. W sr—-

LPS 2150 Ascaris Iumbricoides Eggs

LPS 2150 Ascaris lumbricoides Embryonated Eggs.
These eggs, when fed to a young rat, go through the
early portion of the life cycle. Parasitemia can be
demonstrated within 15 days of feeding and the lung
phases are present in 9 days. The eggs can be fed with
an eye dropper if water is withheld for 12 hours before
feeding. Eggs are shipped in a weak (non-lethal)
solution of formaldehyde.
Per vial. .$8.65

LPS 2200 Nippostrongylus brasiliensis Larvae.
Droppings from infected rats are mixed with vermicu-
lite. Cultures are checked for active larvae prior to
shipment. Instructions included.

Per unit. .$22.95

LPS 2430 Trichinella spiralis Larvae. Encysted in
muscle. Human pathogen. An infected rat drawn and
preserved in sugar is shipped. The meat can be fed to
young adult rats which have been deprived of food or
water for about 12 hours. Larvae of the next genera-
tion will be found in the new host about 30 days after
feeding.
Per rat. .$73.00

LPS 2435 Trichinella spiralis Larvae. Encysted in
muscle. Human pathogen. Preserved in sugar. A
small piece of muscle, enough for feeding one or two

rats.
Per piece. 317.50; 2 pieces. 633.54

Speed Your Order
(GILL TOLL FREE
800 334-5551

FHX 919 584-3399

 




 

 

 

 

 

14-3575 Sunlighter Plant Growing System (see next page for description)

Greenhouses

The Carousel Greenhouse. A top-quality greenhouse
at an affordable price. Standard unit has 106 sq. ft of
floor space (8’4” x 12’7”). The 5’7” eaves height and
7’2” center height provide ample growing and working
space. Curved eaves and “Solar Slant” sides and two
2 x 2’ adjustable roof ventilators give maximum ener-
gy efficiency. All flat areas are glazed with horticultural
glass and the curved areas with acrylic sheets—all cut
to shape and size. Sturdy, maintenance-free, mill-
finished aluminum frame. The Carousel is simple to
build with the clear, comprehensive assembly instruc-
tions. Model shown has optional double sliding doors
and optional greenhouse base. Call or write for com-
plete list of available options and accessories.

14-0520 Carousel Standard Unit. $2410.00

14-0522 Greenhouse Base Assembly. $331.00

14-0524 Extension Unit (4’). $855.41

14-0526 Extension Base Assembly (8’4” x 4’). $116.39

14-0528 Double Sliding Door Assembly. $218.24

Carousel Greenhouse Accessories

Rainwater Downpipe Kit. Includes stops, downpipe,
cut-off pipe, corner pipe, and clips.
14-0572 Per kit. $24.56

Ventilation Window. Install in roof or side to provide
additional ventilation. Recommended for use with the
14-0524 Extension Unit.

14-0574 Each. $75.85

“e

Cubisco® Plants

Automatic Vent Opener. Automatically opens and
closes vents according to daily temperature fluctua-
tions.

14-0575 Each.$54.43

Staging Unit. All-aluminum frame with sectioned ta—
bletops that are reversible and can be used as shallow
trays. ln 4-ft sections.

14-0576 Per section. $115.75

Shelving Kit. All-aluminum shelving attaches to the

sides of the greenhouse, allowing fortwo-tier staging.

Includes one 4-ft section and necessary hardware.
14-0578 Shelving Kit. $52.78

\N 14-0579 Shelving Extension (2-ft section). $35.46

Atlas “A” Greenhouse. An affordable Poly-Span
greenhouse developed in cooperation with university
agronomists and leading commercial growers. The
high-quality, performance-tested Poly-Span green-
house is a free-standing house of superior structural
design featuring an open, support-free interior. The
frame, consisting of bows, purloins, and ground
stakes, is made of heavy-gauge galvanized structural
steel tubing. Each pre-formed bow fits into two ground
stakes placed at4' or 6’ intervals. Bows, purloins, and
corner braces are bolted together. All components are
pre-drilled. End frames are constructed of 2x4 lumber.
The greenhouse is covered with a double layer of
top-quality, 6 mil. poly greenhouse cover, held in
place with a unique locking rail that is bolted to the
frame. A small inflation blower keeps the two layers
separated with a 2” layer of insulating air. Louvered

‘ - V b .; r
m 'w ‘F:1/"x."7-' .
’ ‘ ‘ ‘3‘ \ ;. - ." 4. -
'\ ‘ '-‘- '.- '

.Iﬁ
K

14-0528 Carousel Greenhouse with Sliding Doors

cooling fan shutter and air intake shutter are motorized
and thermostatically controlled. The Modine heaters
offered are standard greenhouse equipment. available
in a choice of natural or propane gas. or electric
heat. Heaters must be vented to the outside. Con-
struction is simple and can be performed using ordi—
nary tools such as screwdrivers, pliers. and wrenches.
The assistance of an electrician may be required forthe
electrical wiring installation.

Each greenhouse system is available in complete kit
form consisting of: basic frame, 6 mil. Monsanto 703
greenhouse cover, cover locking rail. inflation blower.
Modine heater, cooling fan with shutter. motorized
inlet shutter, two-stage and single-stage thermostats,
and shade cloth (55%). All hardware and detailed
instructions are included. Door, lumber. and heater
vent not included in kit. The 12 x 24’ and the 18 x 24’
models can be extended to 42’ or 72' for little addition-
al cost. Ask for information and price quotation. All
components are shipped directly from the factory:
please allow 4 to 6 weeks for delivery. Estimated
freight ranges from $225.00 to $275.00.

12 x 24’ Complete Greenhouse Package.
14-0632 With Electric Heater-ea $3624.00
14-0633 With Propane Heater. $3467.72
14-0634 With Natural Gas Heater. $3467.72

18 x 24’ Complete Greenhouse Package.
14-0642 With Electric Heatere. $4880.20
14-0643 With Propane Heater. $4723.53
14-0644 With Natural Gas Heater. $4723.53

(=e:Specify: 208V, 3 phase or 240V, 3 phase.)

 




56-3635 Centriole. Bobbitt. About 180,000X. The
model measures about 14 x 4.5 cm and is intended to
be used as a hand-held model.

Each. .$49.40

56-3675 Flagellum. Bobbitt. A portion of the base of a
flagellum at about 150,000X. Sections at each end of
the model show the shapes and arrangement of the
various fibers. A portion ofthe basal granule is shown.
Hand-held model measures 19 x 4.5 cm.

Each. .$49.40

56-3682 Golgi Complex. Bobbitt. About 150,000
diameters. Model is 111/2” x 6” x 41/2” and is mounted
on a 9" x 151/2” base. Manual.

Each. 3141.70

56-3737 Mitochondrion. Bobbitt. About 150,000
diameters. Model is 171/2” x 61/2” x 6" and is mounted
on a 6" x 19" base. With manual.

Each. .$141.70

56-3778 Sarcoplasmic Reticulum, Skeletal. Bobbitt.
Greatly enlarged. Shows cell membrane, sarcoplas-
mic reticulum with “T” system, mitochondria, gly—
cogen granules, and the relationship of the sarcomere
to these structures. On base. With manual.

Each. .$127.15

56-3780 Sarcoplasmic Reticulum, Cardiac. Bobbitt.
Similar to 56-3778, but shows structures typical of
cardiac muscle. On base. Manual.

Each. $134.30

56-3781 Sarcoplasmic Reticulum Set. Bobbitt.
Greatly enlarged. Includes 56-3778 Skeletal Sarco-
plasmic Reticulum and 56-3780 Cardiac Sarcoplasmic
Reticulum mounted side by side on a 16 x 21” base.
With key.

Per set. .$243.95

56-3950 Animal Cell

56-3960 Animal Cell

Animals

56-3948 Animal Cell. Hubbard. Cross section
mounted on base and fitted with transparent remov-
able upper section. With Lesson Plan. Size, 8” x 8" x
9!!

Each. .$41.30

56-3950 Animal Cell. Bobbitt. Demonstrates the

generalized cell. Ultrastructure of mitochondria, endo-

plasmic reticulum, Golgi complex, and centrosomes

is carefully treated. Stands 13” high. With manual.
Each. .$119.1O

56-3960 Animal Cell. Bobbitt. Shows both micro-
scopic and ultramicroscopic structures commonly
found in the cell. Upper portion demonstrates struc—
tures in section, and lower portion shows them in high
relief. Model measures 9” wide and 11” high. With
manual.

Each. . $73.45

56-3961 Animal Cell. Somso. Greatly enlarged. Size,
18 x 18 x 37 cm high. On stand with base.
Each. .$168.00

56-3962 Animal Cell. Somso. Greatly enlarged. More
detail than in 56-3961. Size, 39 x 26 x 52 cm high. On
stand with base.

Each . .$509.00

56-3635 Centriole

56-3675 Flagellum

56-3961 Animal Cell

Models 695

56-3682 Golgi Complex

56-3737 Mitochondrion

 

 

 

 

56-3962 Animal Cell

 




696 Corolino Biological Supply Company

56-4100 Amoeba

56-4179 Paramecium

. ul- * ‘ "“’““"'-4 ".~‘¥~A..L.L ..
ihx‘,_‘..(' m ‘ i)! O I O o p ’ ‘,' , ’a'L‘
/' ’ ~55. "

56-4180 Paramecium

56-4100 Amoeba. Bobbitt. Clearly shows all impor-
tant features ofAmoeba. Mounted on a 15"x 18” base.
With manual.

Each. .$101.95

56-4102 Amoeba. Bobbitt. The plasma membrane
and some protoplasm are removed from the upper
side to show some of the internal structures. Mounted
on a plaque 18” x 10” x 33/4". With key.

Each. .$123.10

56-4105 Amoeba. Somso. About 1000X. Dissectible
into two parts. Size, 48 x 31 x 8 cm high. On base.
Each. .$148.50

56-4179 Paramecium. Bobbitt. An open dissection
shows the anatomy. Size, 19” x 103/4" x 51/2". With
key.
Each. 3126.40

56-4180 Paramecium. Bobbitt. Demonstrates basic
features of ciliate anatomy. Mounted on a 9” x 23”
base. With manual.

Each. .$138.35

56-4181 Paramecium. Somso. Enlarged about
1600X. Dissectible into two parts. 0n stand with base.
Size, 61 x 39 x 26 cm.

Each. .$391 .00

56-4200 Sponge Canal System. Bobbitt. Greatly
enlarged. A radial and incurrent canal are shown to
demonstrate the structure of this repeating unit of the
sponge. With key.

Each . .$69.60

56-4102 Amoeba

56-4181 Paramecium

56-4200 Sponge Canal System

56-4202 Grantia with Bud. Bobbitt. A longitudinal

section (about 34 cm long) shows the general

organization of this form. The several parts of the

canal system are shown and labeled. With key.
Each. . $60.90

56-4210 Hydra with Bud. Bobbitt. A longitudinal
section shows the anatomy. Size, 123/4” x 73/4” x 11/4”.
With key.

Each. .$132.95

56-4105 Amoeba

56-4212 Hydra Set

 

56-4210 Hydra with Bud

56-4202 Grantia with Bud

56-4212 Hydra Set. Bobbitt. Three models mounted
together on a 16" x 21” base present the anatomy of
hydra in detail. With manual.

Per set. .$162.65

56-4213 Hydra. Bobbitt. Same as 56-4212 Hydra Set,
but without the cross section and sperm plaque.
Mounted on a 11" x 21" base. With key.

Each. 3126.65

 




d

A
v,

p

56-4214 Hydra Set. Somso. One model (30X) shows

anatomy in Is. Other model shows a detail of the body

wall (200X). Size, 39 x 33 x 46 cm high. On base.
Per set. .$382.50

56-4224 Sea Anemone. Bobbitt. A section is dis-
sected to show the gullet and the system of mesenter-
ies that supports the gullet and reproductive struc-
tures. The gastrovascular cavity, the mesenteric
filament, and the acontia are also exposed. Size, 23
cm diameter by 25 cm high. Key included.

Each. .$133.10

56-4230 Planarian Set. Bobbitt. Dorsal and ventral
dissections and enlarged cross section show internal
anatomy. Mounted together on a 9” x 23" base. With
manual.

Per set. .$174.10

56-4231 Planaria. Bobbitt. Same as 56-4230 Planar-
ian Set, but withoutthe cross section. Mounted on a 9"
x 23” base. With key.

Each. .$145.40

56-4248 Beet Tapeworm Scolex. Somso. Greatly
enlarged. Size, 18 x 18 x 28 cm high. 0n base.
Each. .$48.50

56-4249 Pork Tapeworm Scolex. Somso. Greatly
enlarged. Size, 18 x 18 x 28 cm high. On base.
Each. .$80.50

56-4250 Tapeworm Set. Somso. Greatly enlarged.

Heads of pork and beef tapeworms with egg, cys-

ticercus, and proglottids. Size, 61 x 10 x 38 cm high.
Per set. .$341.50

56-4214 Hydra Set

56-4300 Starfish

56-4298 Starfish. Bobbitt. This high-relief model

shows the central disc and three arms dissected. The

arm dissections are at different levels to reveal as

much of the internal anatomy as possible. Fully

labeled, with key printed on the plaque. Size, 16 x 22".
Each. .$59.95

56-4300 Starfish. Bobbitt. Greatly enlarged. Shows
internal and external anatomy. On base. Manual.
Each. .$154.75

56-4305 Starfish. Somso. Greatly enlarged. Three

arms in Is. and one in c.s. Dissectible into three parts.

Size, 53 x 35 x 31 cm high. 0n stand with base.
Each . . $573.00

56-4355 Earthworm. Hubbard. Shows clitellum, com-
plete segmentation and anus, as well as all internal
systems. With Lesson Plan. Size, 24” x 18”.

Each. . $65.00

56-4360 Earthworm Set. Bobbitt. Shows internal
organs and male and female reproductive systems.
Mounted on a 12" x 30” base. With manual.

Per set. .$268.80

56-4361 Earthworm. Bobbitt. Same as 56-4360
Earthworm Set, but without the cross section.
Each. .$184.20

56-4224 Sea Anemone

56-4360 Earthworm Set

Models 691

56-4230 Planarian Set

56-4248 Beef Tapeworm, left; 56-4249 Pork
Tapeworm, right

STARF 15H
DISSECTIQN

56-4298 Starfish

 

56-4355 Earthworm

 




698 Corolino Biological Supply Company

 

56-4362 Earthworm

56-4362 Earthworm. Somso. About 25X. Includes

first third of the body with a cross section showing the

position of the internal organs. Dissects into three

parts. On stand with base. Size, 25 x 53 x 14 cm.
Each . .$337.00

564367 Earthworm. Bobbitt. Dissection of the anteri-
or portion showing the digestive, circulatory, ner-
vous, and reproductive systems. A nephridium and a
cross section of the 22nd segment are shown on stand
with base. Size, 22 x 6”.

Each . 8300.70

56-4375 Clam. Hubbard. Cut-away view shows inter-
nal organs. Supplemental diagrams depict nervous
and circulatory systems, as well as enlarged view of
gills. With Lesson Plan. Size, 24" x 18”.

Each. .$65.00

56-4379 Clam. Bobbitt. An open dissection shows
anatomy in detail. Mounted on a 8” x 15” base. With
key.

Each. .$141.45

56-4380 Clam Set. Bobbitt. Open dissection and
cross section mounted together on a 12” x 30” base.
With manual.

Per set. .$193.30

56-4381 Clam. Bobbitt. Same as 56-4380 Clam Set,
but without the cross section.
Each. 8150.85

56-4390 Snail

56-4392 Snail

56-4367 Earthworm

56-4382 Clam. Somso. 4X life size. Dissectible into
five parts. Mounted on base. Size, 56 x 45 x 37 cm.
Each. 61197.50

56-4390 Snail. Bobbitt. Greatly enlarged. Elementary.
Sagittal dissection showing internal anatomy. On
sturdy base. With manual.

Each. .$130.15

56-4392 Snail. Somso. About 6X. Shows complete
internal dissection. Dissectible into four parts. Size,
68 x 45 x 28 cm high. On base.

Each. .$1245.50

56-4440 Daphnia. Somso. External and internal
anatomy of a branchiopod. The right half can be
removed to reveal internal organs which can also be
removed. Length, 62 cm. On stand with base.

Each . . $588.00

56-4445 Crayfish. Hubbard. Internal organs are
shown in sectional view and “teeth” in stomach and
musculature of tail are demonstrated. With Lesson
Plan. Size, 24" x 18”.

Each. .$65.00

56-4450 Crayfish Set. Bobbitt. Longitudinal section
and cross section mounted together on a 12” x 30”
base. Teeth of the gastric mill and soft tissues are
emphasized. With manual.

Per set. .$185.50

56-4451 Crayfish. Bobbitt. Same as 56-4450 Crayfish
Set, but without the cross section.
Each. 8142.70

 

 

56-4450 Crayfish Set

 

 

56-4375 Clam

56-4379 Clam

56-4380 Clam Set

56-4382 Clam

56-4440 Daphnia

 




Models 699

 

56-4455 Crayfish

56-4530
insect Eye

 

56-4455 Crayfish. Somso. Greatly enlarged. Com-
plete dissection reveals internal anatomy. Size, 82 x
29 x 28 cm. On base.

Each. 81651.00

56-4530 Insect Eye. Somso. About 200X. Histological
microstructure of the facet eye. Size, 29 x 18 x 33 cm
high. On stand with base.

Each. .$178.00

56-4535 Beetle Head. Somso. Greatly enlarged.
Shows head and mouth parts. Size, 29 x 18 x 33 cm.
On base.

Each. .$542.50

56-4537 Bark Beetle. Somso. About 40X. A true-to-
detail representation of the big Spruce bark beetle with
eight teeth. Shows the following phases of develop-
ment: egg, young larva (2X), full-grown larva, pupa,
and adult. Size, 20 x 49 x 28 cm. On base.

Each. .$286.00

56-4540 Butterﬂy Head. Somso. 50X. With straight
and coiled proboscis and antennae. Size, 18 x 25 x 82
cm high. On stand with base.

Each. 8249.50

 

56-4535 Beetle Head

 

 

 

 

56-4540 Butterfly Head

 

 

i

S.
1.:
571‘
{2:1
g::

mam-81:;

56-4548 Grasshopper

56-4550 Grasshopper

56-4545 Flea. Somso. 70X. Excellent for showing the
external anatomy of the cat flea. Size, 18 x 22.5 cm.
One piece, on stand with base.

Each. 8149.00

56-4548 Grasshopper. Hubbard. Generalized female
with exoskeleton partially cut away to show organ
systems. Mouth parts are diagrammed. Includes
Lesson Plan. Size, 24” x 18".

Each. 865.00

56-4550 Grasshopper. Bobbitt. Elementary. Shows
the major systems in detail. Mounted on a 6” x 19”
base. With manual.

Each. 15112.95

56-4555 Grasshopper. Bobbitt. Lateral dissection of

female showing major systems. External anatomy

presented. Mounted on a 7" x 24" base. With manual.
Each . . $232.95

 

56-4556 Grasshopper

56-4558 Human Head Louse

56-4560 Honey Bee

56-4556 Grasshopper. Somso. About 10X. One side
shows the external anatomy, the other shows internal
anatomy. Size, 45 x 13 x 33 cm. On stand.

Each . 8820.00

56-4558 Human Head Louse. Somso. 70X. An

excellent model for teaching the biology of the louse.

Size, 20 x 17 cm. One piece, on stand with base.
Each. .$100.50

56-4560 Honey Bee. Somso. About 25X. Worker is

sectioned to show internal anatomy. Dissectible into

three parts. Size, 39 x 28 x 48 cm high. On base.
Each . 8455.00

 




100 Carolina Biological Supply Company

56-4565 Honey Bee Head

56-4580 Mosquito Head

56-4582 Mosquito

56-4565 Honey Bee Head. Somso. 50X. Upper jaw is
movable. Size, 18 x 19 x 34 cm high. On stand with
base.

Each. . $276.00

56-4570 House Fly Head. Somso. 50X. Size, 18 x 20
x 27 cm high. 0n stand with base.
Each. 8166.00

56-4580 Mosquito Head. Somso. 50X. Size, 18 x 45 x
40 cm high. On stand with base.
Each. . $258.50

56-4582 Mosquito. Somso. About 50X. Shows inter-
nal and external structure of the mosquito. Dissectible
into seven parts. Size, 60 x 75 x 65 cm. On stand with
base.

Each. .$1213.00

56-4640 Amphioxus

56-4570 House Fly Head

56-4641 Amphioxus Set

56-4585 Cockroach Head

56-4644 Comparative Vertebrate Brains Set

56-4585 Cockroach Head. Somso. 50X. Periplaneta.
Mandibles and maxillae are removable. Size, 27 x 18 x
41 cm. 0n stand with base.

Each . . $264.00

56-4640 Amphioxus. Bobbitt. 30X. Shows principal
organ systems and structures in the oral hood. 0n 7” x
24” base. With manual.

Each. .$120.05

56-4641 Amphioxus Set. Bobbitt. The open dissec-
tion of 56-4640 and four cross sections (about 30X)
mounted on 12” x 30" base. Manual included.

Per set. .$204.60

 

56-4643 Amphioxus

56-4642 Amphioxus Set. Somso. Consists of four
models: longitudinal section through larva at begin-
ning of development; longitudinal section through
older larva with 9 primeval segments; adult; and cross
section through adult.

Per set. .$468.50

56-4643 Amphioxus. Somso. About 15OX. Dissecti-
ble into four parts. Size, 25 x 68 x 14 cm. 0n stand
with base.

Each. .$218.50

Comparative Vertebrate Brains. Bobbitt. The brains
are modeled at approximately the same size, about 25
cm long, so the comparative proportions of the
various regions are clearly demonstrated. The models
are decorated to distinguish the major regions of the
brain. Each model is mounted on its own base and can
be removed easily for examination. A Teacher’s
Manual provides identification ofthe major structures.

56-4644 Comparative Vertebrate Brains Set. One brain each
of 56-4646A Dogfish, 56-4646E Frog, 56-46466 Turtle, and
56-4646M Rat.

Per set. .$302.95

56-4646A Doglish Brain.
Each. .$88.75

56-4646E Frog Brain.
Each. .$88.75

56-46466 Turtle Brain.
Each. .$88.75

56-4646M Rat Brain.
Each. .$88.75

 




 

56-4650 Vertebrate Brains Set. Somso. Eight mod-

els, each on stand with base. Includes lamprey,

dogfish, trout, frog, alligator, pigeon, rabbit, and dog.
Per set. .$418.50

56-4655 Vertebrate Hearts Set. Somso. Seven mod-
els, each on stand with base. Includes fish, frog,
turtle, crocodile, bird, dog, and human.

Per set. .$945.50

56-4740 Shark. Bobbitt. A dissection of the anterior
portion (from pectoral fins forward) shows major
details of the circulatory system. Ventral and dorsal
dissections show the major blood vessels of the
region. With key.

Each. .$216.45

56—4750 Perch. Hubbard. All organ systems are
shown, with special emphasis on gill structure.
Supplemental diagrams show gills and skeleton.
Includes Lesson Plan. Size, 24” x 18”.

Each. $65.00

56-4751 Perch Dissection. Bobbitt. A full dissection
of the left side. Details of the respiratory, digestive,
circulatory, and reproductive systems are presented.
Fully labeled, with key printed on the plaque. Size, 16 x
21".

Each. .$59.95

56-4755 Perch

56-4755 Perch. Bobbitt. Internal organs are demon-
strated in a spread dissection. A portion of the skull is
removed to show semicircular canals and brain. On
10" x 24" base. With manual.

Each. .$186.35

56-4756 Fish. Somso. Life size. Shows the anatomy
of a bony fish (carp). Dissectible into four parts,
including intestines, air bladder, and testicles. Size,
38 x 53 x 14 cm. 0n stand with base.

Each. .$338.50

56-4895 Frog. Hubbard. Dorsal and ventral views
show all organ systems clearly. Special display shows
heart. With Lesson Plan. Size, 24” x 18”.

Each. .$65.00

56-4900 Frog. Bobbitt. Ventral dissection of the
bullfrog. Half the lower jaw is removed, and the
digestive system is spread to reveal deeply lying
organs. The circulatory and reproductive (female)
systems are shown in detail. On 16" x 21” base. With
manual.

Each. .$185.10

 

 

56-4895 Frog

56-4750 Perch

PERCH DISSEC‘I'ION
Qt"

as .
t) 1. . N P
U MIERY‘WO

2%. (M: ,
it Monument im 21,. (at? Mark‘s

56-4751 Perch Dissection

56-4740 Shark

56-4900 Frog

 




102 Corolino Biological Supply Company

rm r-n’ﬂj

(Samoa-lilo vvrtrv

56-4924 Frog

56-4927 Frog Male

Urogenital System Urogenital System

56-4920 Frog, Dorsal and Ventral Dissections.

Bobbitt. Ventral same as 56-4900. Dorsal shows

brain, eye, ear, muscles, and nerves. Mounted by

polished metal rod on 8" x 12” base. With manual.
Each . .$247.90

56-4924 Frog. Somso. About 4X. Dissectible into

three parts with the liver, stomach, and intestinal track

removable. Supplementary model shows urinary and

genital organs of the female frog. Size, 39 x 9 x 62 cm.
Each. .$489.00

56-4925 Frog. Somso. 4X. Internal and external
anatomy. Liver, stomach, and intestine are remov-
able. Supplementary model shows female urogenital
system. Dissectible into five parts. Size, 42 x 26 x 58
cm high. 0n stand with base.

Each. 61139.50

56-4927 Frog Male Urogenital System. Bobbitt.
Shows testes, vasa efferentia, kidneys, fat bodies,
ureters, urinary bladder, and vestigial oviduct. Size,
12%” x 71/4” x 41/2". With key.

Each. .$101.50

564929 Frog Female Urogenital System. Bobbitt.
Shows ovary with eggs, oviducts, fat bodies, kidneys,
ureters, urinary bladder, and cloaca. Size, 12%” x
7%" x 41/2". With key.

Each. .$101.50

565025 Alligator. Bobbitt. A lateral dissection shows
internal anatomy. Model is about 71 cm long and is
mounted on a base. With key.

Each . .$273.85

56-4920 Frog, Dorsal and
Ventral Dissections

56-5025 Alligator

56-4929 Frog Female

56-5080 Poisonous Snake Head

FETAL we;

56-5775
Fetal Pig

56-5080 Poisonous Snake Head.Somso. About 15X.
Size, 49 x 26 x 39 cm high. 0n stand with base.
Each. .$411.00

565200 Chicken. Somso. Life size. Right side shows
feathers and sagittal section exposes internal organs.
Dissectible into five parts. Size, 45 x 26 x 49 cm high.
0n stand with base.

Each. $418.50

565220 Pigeon Brain. Bobbitt. The brain is cut in a
median sagittal section so both internal and external
features are shown; cranial nerves are demonstrated.
Size, 8" long. A natural-sized replica is included for
comparison. With key.

Each. 688.75

56-4925 Frog

 

56-5200 Chicken

56-5220 Pigeon Brain

 




Models 103

 

56-5781 Fetal Pig

56-5810 Cow Stomach

56-5550 Cat. Bobbitt. Shows major arteries and veins
in high relief. Heart is removable to show the deep
vessels of the posterior circulation and vessels of the
lungs. Size, 25” x 10” x 3". With key.

Each. . $303.95

56-5775 Fetal Pig. Hubbard. Ventral view of male and
dorsal view of female. Nervous and circulatory sys-
tems are diagrammed. Includes Lesson Plan. Size,
24” x 18".

Each. .$65.00

56-5780 Fetal Pig. Bobbitt. Life size. Elementary.
Ventral dissection showing internal anatomy and
major blood vessels. On sturdy base.

Each. .$139.15

56-5781 Fetal Pig. Bobbitt. Two times life size.
Excellent student guide for dissection. Separate piece
shows the internal organs (heart, lungs, stomach,
liver, and intestines) along with the basic pattern of the
blood supply. On a sturdy base.

Each . . $477.45

56-5790 Sow

56-5800 COW

56-5790 Sow. Somso. About one-half life size.

Dissectible into 17 parts: right half of body, left half of

body and head, parotid gland, left front leg, half of

lung, heart (2 parts), liver (2 parts), stomach (2

parts), pancreas, small and large intestine, renal fat,

and half of uterus. Size, 48 x 21 x 102 cm long.
Each. .$3231.00

56-5800 Cow. Somso. About one-third life size.

Dissectible into 13 parts. Half of lung, heart (2 parts),

ruminant stomach (3 parts), small and large intestine,

uterus, and half of udder are removable. Size, 85 x 25

x 52 cm high. 0n removable stand with rollers.
Each . .$2583.00

56-5810 Cow Stomach. Somso. One-third life size.
Internal and external anatomy. Dissectible into three
pieces. Size, 28 x 18 x 36 cm high. 0n stand with
base.

Each. .$387.50

56-5815 Cow Foot. Somso. Dissectible into six parts.

Left front foot showing muscles, bone, and upper and

lower part of hoof. Size, 14 x 30 x 34 cm. On base.
Each . .$225.00

56-6400 Human Infant

Human

56-6400 Human Infant- Somso. For teaching infant
care. Size of a six-week—old baby. Limbs move in

' normal fashion. Waterproof and suitable for bathing.

Protective covering. Length, 55 cm.
Each . .$274.00

56-6450 Human Youth Torso. Hubbard. A perfectly
developed, believable example of bodily form and
function. Molded one-piece construction with clear
plastic overlay. Scaled to actual size, model is 12” x
27". With Lesson Plan.

Each. .$65.00

 




104 Corolino Biological Supply Company

56-6455 Human Youth Torso. Hubbard. Accurately
details over 100 intricate body structures. Exterior
shows superficial musculature. Lungs, heart, stom-
ach, liver, and intestines are removable. A 56- -page
Lesson Plan includes detailed background information
and key. Size, 12” x 28".

Each . $229.00

566458 Human Female Youth Torso with Head. Life

size. Includes chest and abdominal plate. Sixteen.

dissectible parts. Free standing on a base.
Each. $856. 00

Human Minitorso. Somso. Anatomically accurate and
dissectible into seven parts. Suitable for group in-
struction. Exceptional detail on a scale to match the

younger student’s imagination. Easily manipulated by ,
small hands. Size, 17.5 x 14x 28 cm high without.

head and 37 cm high with head. On base.
56-6514 Minitorso without Head. .$265.50
566515 Black Minitorso without Head. .$271.50
56-6516 Minitorso with Head. $310.50
566517 Black Minitorso with Head. .$317.50 -

56-6458 Human Female Youth Torso with Head

' 56-6527 Human Miniature Torso.
one-half life size. Dissectible into 11 parts (including
torso): left half of head, left half of brain, lungs (2

56-6522 Human Torso without Head. No chest or
abdominal plate. Ten dissectible parts. Free standing
on a base.

Each. 8544.00

’ 56-6525 Human Miniature Torso without Head.

Somso. About one-half life size. Dissectible into 8
parts (including torso): lungs (2 pieces), heart (2
pieces), liver, stomach, and small and large intes—
tines. Size, 22 x 18 x 42 cm high. On base.

Each ”$338 00

Somso. About

pieces), heart (2 pieces), liver, stomach, small and
large IntestInes and half of NW kIdney Size, 20x18
x 53 cm high. 0n base.

Each $431. 50

7 f 56- 6528 Human Miniature Torso. One- half life size.
" With detachable head. The head separates sagital-

ly into two parts and the left half of,-,1‘he"brain is

removable. The heart (2 parts), lungs (2. parts), liver,

stomach,‘intestines, and appendix are removable.
Each. $310.00 _

56-6450 Human Youth Torso

56-6455 Human Youth Torso

56-6517 Black Minitorso with Head

56-6525 Human Miniature Torso

56-6522 Human Torso without Head

without Head

56-6527 Human Miniature Torso

56-6528 Human Miniature Torso

 




Seventh International CAAT Symposium

In Vitro Toxicology - Mechanisms and New Technology
November 27-28-29, 1990, Baltimore, MD

Wednesday. November 28

Tuesday, November _27_

0:00-9:00 am.
3:00-9:00 gm.

9:00 am

0:16-11:80 Mn.

5:00-6:30 pun.

Registration
Set Up Posters

Welcome : Alan M. Goldberg

Introduction of Hildegard DoerenkampoGerhard Zbinden Foundation
Scientiﬁc Award for 1989

Mechanisms of Tissue Injury
Session Chair: Robert A. Roth, Jr.

Introduction

Henry Jay Forrnan

Arachidonic Acid Metabolites and Phagocytic Cells as Mediators
of Tissue Injury

Steven L Kunltel
Tissue Injury Caused by Tumor Necrosis Factor

James W. Putney, Jr.
Second Messenger Systems in Cytotoxic Responses

Doyle G. Graham ,
Molecular Studies of n-hexane and Carbon Disulfide Neuropathres

Avon Contact Allergy Program Project Update
Daniel N. Sauder (introduced by Janice Teal)

LUNCH WITH FACULTY
POSTER SESSION A

Application of Molecular Biology and Genetics to In Vitro Toxicology
Session Chair: Peter A. Ward

Introduction

James Yager
Cell Proliferation-Stimulation by Tumor Promoters

James Klaunlg
Molecular Approaches to Studying Cell-Cell Communication

James Onorato
Molecular Biology of Receptors

Craig B. Thompson
Molecular Biology of Signal Transduction

WINE AND CHEESE RECEPTION (Lower Concourse. Turner Audlorium)

moo-am a.rrr.

SET UP FOR POSTER SESSION 8

mum m Reproductive Toxicology and Teratology

Session Chair: Bernard Robalre
Introduction

Gregory F. Erickson
Cultured Ovarian Cells

Sally Perreault Darney
ln Wtro Assessment of Gamete Integrity

Thomas Sadler
Serum Factors and Whole Embryo Cultures

Barbara F. Hales
In Wtro Approaches to Teratology

Historical Perspecdvea on In Vlu'o Toxicology
John Parascandola (mm by John Frazier)

LUNCH WITH FACULTY
POSTER SESSION 8

New Technology
Chair: Melvin Balk

Introduction

Wallace L McKeehann
The Use of Human Cells in Toxicology

J. Wallace Parce
Cells on Silicone

Noah Hades
Image Analysis

Natalie Rudolph _ . 0
In Vitro Assays Developed Through Genetic Engineering

BANQUET - 8&0 Roundhouse

 




Thursday, November _29

moo-nan an Extrapolation
Chair: Reid Patterson

Introduction

Melvin E. Andersen
Physiologicnlly Based Pharmacokinetic Modelling

R.J. Chenery
in Vitro - ln Wvo Extrapolation of Xenobiotic Metabolism

Herbert S. Roeenkrenz
Structure-Activity Relationships

Charles A. Tyson
Comparative Toxicity

n so an. Perspective: on Validation In Europe
12:00 gm Baa Blaeuboer mm by Mm comm;

12:00-12:30 pm. Update on Validation (mum byAI-n 6:»me
John M. Frazier

12:30-12:45 pan. Alan M. Goldberg
Closing Remarks

12:45 PM LUNCH WITH FACULTY

 




SYMPOSIUM FACULTY

Melvin E. Andersen. Ph.D.
Head. Department of Risk Assessment
Chemical industry institute of Toxicology (CilT)

Melvin W. Balk, D.V.M.. M.S.
Senior Vice President & Scientiﬁc Director
Charles River Laboratories. inc.

Bas Biaauboer. Ph.D.
Research institute of Toxicology
University of Utrecht

R.J. Chenery. Ph.D.
Smith Kline French Research Ltd.
United Kingdom

Sally Perreault Damey. Ph.D.

Chief. Reproductive Toxicology Branch
EPA. Health Effects Research Laboratory
Research Triangle Park

Gregory F. Erickson. Ph.D.
Departrnent of Reproductive Medicine
University of Caiifomia, San Diego

Henry Jay Forman. Ph.D.
Division of Neonatoiogy
Children's Hospital Los Angeles

John M. Frazier. Ph.D.
Associate Director
The Johns Hopkins Center
for Alternatives to Animal Testing
Director. in Vitro Toxicology Laboratory
Associate Professor of Environmental Health Sciences
The Johns Hopkins University
School of Hygiene and Public Health

Alan M. Goldberg. Ph.D.
Director
The Johns Hepkins Center

for Alternatives to Animal Testing
Associate Dean for Research
The Johns Hepkins University
School of Hygiene and Public Health

Doyle (3. Graham. MD. Ph.D.

Dean. Medical Education

Director. integrated Toxicology Program
Professor of Pathology

Duke University Medical Center

Noah Hadas
Vice President. Marketing 8. Sales
Meridian instruments, Inc.

Barbara F. Hales. Ph.D.
Associate Professor
McGiil University. Quebec. Canada

James Klaunig. Ph.D.
Associate Professor of Pathology
Medical College of Ohio

Steven L Kunkei. Ph.D.
Associate Professor of Pathology
University of Michigan Medical School

Wallace L McKeehann. Ph.D.
Depment Director and Senior Scientist
W. Alton Jones Cell Science Center

James Onorato. M.D.
Postdoctoral Research Fellow
Duke University Medical Center

John Parascandoia, Ph.D.
Chief. History of Medicine Division
National Library of Medicine

J. Wallace Parce. Ph.D.
Molecular Devices Corporation

Reid Patterson. D.V.M.. Ph.D.
Director of Drug Safety Evaluation
Pharrnaceuticai Products Division
Abbott Laboratories

James W. Putney, Jr.. Ph.D.

Chief. Laboratory of Cellular 3. Molecular Pharmacology
National institutes of Health

National institute of Environmental Health Sciences
(NlEHS).

Research Triangle Park

Bernard Robaire. Ph.D. .
Professor of Pharmacology and Therapeutics
McGiil University. Quebec. Canada

Herbert S. Rosenkranz. Ph.D.

Department of Environmental Health Sciences
Case Western Reserve University

School of Medicine

Robert A. Roth. Jr.. Ph.D.

Professor of Pharmacology and Toxicology
Michigan State University

School of Veterinary Medicine

Natalie Rudolph. Ph.D.
Senior Scientist. Cell Biology
TSi

Thomas Sadler. Ph.D.
Professor of Anatomy
University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill

Daniel N. Sander. M.D.. F.R.C.P.C.
Associate Professor of Dermatology
Department of Medicine

McMaster University. Ontario. Canada

Janice J. Teal. Ph.D.
Manager. Product Safety
Avon Products. inc.

Craig 8. Thompson. MD.

Professor of Medicine 8.
Microbiology 8. immunology

University of Michigan

Charles A. Tyson. Ph.D.
SRl lntemational

Peter A. Ward, MD.
Professor and Chairman of Pathology
University of Michigan Medical School

James Yager. Ph.D.

Professor and Director. Division of Toxicology
Department of Environmental Health Sciences
The Johns Hopkins University

School of Hygiene and Public Health

ﬁnaisym.pro 1/22/90 mip

 




older

k at social
leration at
istitutional
inent issue
87 through
Africa and

I3] pp. $50
:5 $25 each

11 Ireland

panies that
campaigns
that relate
momic and

{24 pp. $50

and halon
2 chemicals
regulations
cts for new

47 pp. $35
'nvestor

olders are
iem—from
rights and
westment:
Erland, the

38 pp. $45

v

~1 .v“v’~l

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




The authoritative series on the alternatives
to animal testing” ' ,

ALTERNATIVE
  METHODS IN

' TOXICOLOGY
SERIES

Volume 6 just published!

M447 AM (5&ng 'M. gm New York Basel

 




 

 

In Vitro toxicology—or non-whole-animal-testing—is a
very important aspect of safety-testing strategies. Not
only does it produce a reduction in the number of ani-
mals used in testing but more effective methodologies
evolve to evaluate safety. Alternative Methods in Tbxicol-
ogy is a series on the proceedings of the annual symposia

 

Alternative Methods in Toxicology Series

Editor: ALAN M. GOLDBERG

Director, Center for Alternatives to Animal Testing, School of Hygiene
and Public Health, The Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland

 

of the Johns Hopkins Center for Alternatives to Animal
Testing and reﬂects its goal: to develop appropriate
basic scientiﬁc knowledge that can lead to innovative
methods, using non-whole-animal systems, for the
safety evaluation of commercial and therapeutic prod-
ucts.

 

 

. VOLUME
PROGRESS IN IN VITRO TOXICOLOGY

350 pp., June 1988

ISBN 0-913-113-12-3

Editor: ALAN M. GOLDBERG

CONTENTS:

Symposium Presentations
Epidermal Toxicity
Skin Toxicity, L. A. Goldsmith

Proteinase Biology in Keratinocyte Culture: Possible Utility as a
Model for Toxicological Testing, G. S. Lazarus

Testskin: A Hybrid Organism Covered by a Living Human Skin
Equivalent Designed for Toxicity and Other Testing, E. Bell, N. L.
Parenteau, H. B. Haimes, R. J. Gay, P. D. Kemp, T W. Fofonoﬁ’,
V. S. Mason, D. T Kagan, and M. Swiderek

Cellular Responses of Cultured Human Epidermal Keratinocytes as
Models of Toxicity to Human Skin, S. T Boyce, J. E Hansbrough,
and D. A. Norris

Surfactant—Induced Cutaneous Primary Irritancy: An In Vitro
Model—Assay System Development, V. DeLeo, J. Hong, S.
Scheide, B. Kong, S. De Salva, and D. Bagley

Summary of Panel Discussion, Y Gressel
Recent Advances in Tissue Culture
Introduction, P Ward

Cultured Endothelial Cells as Probes for In Vivo Biology, U. S. Ryan
and J. M. Vann

Cultured Rat Hepatocytes in the Study of the Hepatotoxicity of
Acetaminophen, J. L. Farber

Update: A Critical Evaluation of Alternatives to Acute Ocular Ir-
ritancy Testing, J. M. Frazier

Biotechnology and In Vitro Toxicology

Issues in the Safety Assessment of Products of Biotechnology,
G. Zbinden

Recombinant DNA and Monoclonal Antibody Products, R. E. Stoll

Tests for Worker Exposure to Products of Biotechnology, D. K.
Flaherty, P. A. l/Vinzenburger, and P. L. Sherman

Summary, R. A. Scala

Poster Presentations

Functional Characteristics of Proximal Tubule Cells in Primary Cul-
ture: A New In Vitro Model for Studying Nephrotoxicity, M. D. Aleo
and P. J. Kostyniak

 

 

Structure-Activity Relationships of Inorganic Metals, Organometals,
and Organic Test Agents Determined In Vitro with the Neutral Red
Assay, H. Babich and E. Borenfreund

An Improved CA_M Assay for Predicting Ocular Irritation Potential,
D. M. Bagley, P. Y. Rizvi, B. M. Kong, and S. J. De Salva

The Effects of Hyperoxic and Hypoxic Exposure on Catalase in Mouse
Skin Explants, M. G. Bird, G. Witz, R. A. Scala, and D. V. Parke

Prediction of the Eye Irritation Potential of Surfactant-Based House-
hold Cleaning Products Using the SIRC Cell Toxicity Test, J.
Demetrulias and H. North-Root

Differential Response of In Vitro Vaginal Tissue to Various Test
Agents, N. H. Dubin, R. B. Ghodgaonkar, and T H. Parmley

Use of Isolated Hepatocytes for Studying the Biochemical Mech-
anisms of Steatosis and Cholestasis, F Goethals, D. Deboyser, C.
Gonzalez, and M. Roberfroid

The Use of Freshly Isolated Hepatocytes for Studying Toxicity of Drug
Mixtures, F Goethals, P. Vossen, M.—N. Blaude, and M. Roberfroid

Current Uses of Normal Human Epidermal Keratinocytes in Serum—
Free Medium for In Vitro Toxicology, P. T Wegener

Comparative Hazard Assessment of Formaldehyde and Trioxane In
Vitro Using Human Diploid, Cell Strains, R. A. Krieger and VF Garry

High Performance Liquid Chromatography Analysis of the Novel Neu-
trophil Chemoattractants “Nourin” Released from Alkali-Burned
Corneas, E Metwally, A. Cohen, E. E Rossomando, and S. A. Elgebaly

Acute and Protracted Injury to Corneal Epithelium as an Indication
of the Biocompatibility of Various Pharmaceutical Vehicles, D. R.
Meyer and J. P. McCulley

In Vitro Toxicology Data on Respirable Particles and Fibres and Its
Evaluation for Statistical Signiﬁcance, D. Nadeau, D. Paradis, L.
Fouquette, and J. Dunnigan

In Vitro Ocular Irritancy Prediction: Assays in Serum-Free Media Cor-
relate Better with In Vitro Data, C. Shopsis and B. Eng

The MTT In Vitro Cytotoxicity Test: Correlation with Cutaneous Irri-
tancy in Two Animal Models, D. A. Swisher; M. E. Prevo, and P. W.
Ledger

Trans-Epitelial Permeability of Fluorescein In Vitro as an Assay to
Determine Eye Irritants, R. Rhao

continued >

 




 

VOLUME 6 (continued)

In Vitro Cytotoxicity Test Using Primary Cells Derived from Rabbit
Eye Is Useful as an Alternative for Draize Testing, M. Watanabe, K.
Watanabe, K. Suzuki, 0. Nikaido, T. Sugahara, I. Ishii, and H.
Konishi

Evaluation of Organic Nephrotoxins Using Rabbit Renal Cortical
Slices, G. H. I. Wolfgang, A. J. Gandolﬁ, C. L. Krumdieck, and K.
Brendel

A Rapid and Reliable Acute Toxicity Test for Hepatotoxic Agents Using
Only a Single Animal, U. Wormser and D. Calp

 

Commercial Poster Presentations

The EYTEX-MPA System: An In Vitro Method for the Evaluation of
Ocular Safety, V. C. Gordon and H. C. Bergman

External Evaluation of the Standard EYTEX System in Six
Laboratories to Determine Intra- and Inter-Laboratory Accuracy
and Precision, V. C. Gordon and H. C. Bergman

External Evaluation of the EYTEX and EYTEX-MFA Systems in
'leelve Laboratories to Determine the Correlation of EYTEX Results
with In Vivo Results, V. C. Gordon and H. C. Bergman

VOLUME
IN VITRO TOXICOLOGY: Approaches to Validation

530 pp., August 1987

ISBN 0-913-113-10-7

The proceedings of a Symposium on In Vitro beicology held at the
Johns Hopkins Center for Alternatives to Animal Testing

CONTENTS:
Symposium Presentations

Theoretical Approaches to Validation, Robert A. Scala
Validation as Applied to In Vitro Toxicology, John 0. Rundell

The Interplay Among Validation, Policy, and Regulation,
Richard N. Hill

Diffusion of a New Methodology, Frank Baker
Validation Studies in Progress

Validation Studies on a Battery of Potential In Vitro Alternatives to
the Draize Test, Charles Shopsis, Ellen Borenfreund, and Dennis
M. Stark

The FRAME Approach to the Development, Validation, and Evalua-
tion of In Vitro Alternative Methods, Michael Balls, Rosemary J.
Riddell, Steven A. Horner, and Richard H. Clothier

The Development and Evaluation of the Chorioallantoic Membrane
(CAM) Assay, Betty M. Kong, Chris J. Viau, Perveen Y Rizvi, and
Salvatore J. De Salva

An Approach to Validation: Comparison of Six Materials in Three
Tests, John A. Shadduck, James Render, Jeffrey Everitt, Rose Ann
Meccoli, and Diane Essex-Sorlie

Validation of an In Vitro Eye Irritancy Test: A First Step, Herman
B. W. M. 'Koeter and Menk K. Prinsen

The Validation approach of The Johns Hopkins Center for Alterna-
tives to animal Testing, John M. Frazier

Skin and Eye Studies in Progress

Chairman’s Remarks
Direct Toxicity to the Cornea: A Nonspeciﬁc Process?, David Maurice

Introductory Lecture: Mechanisms of Inﬂammation in Skin and
Eyes—Similarities and Differences, Michael B. Berman

Two New In VitroMethods for Evaluating Toxicity to Skin (Employing
Short-Term Organ Culture): I. Paranuclear Vacuolization, Seen in
Glycol Methacrylate Tissue Sections; II. Inhibition of 14C-Leucine
Incorporation, Arthur M. Dannenberg, Jr., K. Gregory Moore,
Brian H. Schoﬁeld, Kazuyuki Higuchi, Akira Kajiki, Kin-Wing Au,
Peggy J. Pula, and David P. Bassett

Surfactant-Induced Cutaneous Primary Irritancy: An In Vitro Model,

Vincent A. DeLeo, Lauren Midlarsky, Leonard C. Harber, Betty M.
Kong, and Salvatore De Salva

Corneal Epithelial Wound Closure: ATissue Culture Model of Ocular
Irritancy, Marcia M. Jumblatt, Sandra J. Simmons, and Arthur
H. Neufeld

 

 

 

 

Further Testing of an In Vitro Phototoxicity Assay, Irene E. Kochevar,
Andre Western, and Daniel J. McAuliffe

Novel Strategies for Evaluating the Comparative Toxicity of Unmodi-
ﬁed Viscoelastic Formulations, Dale R. Meyer and James P.
McCulley

A Simple Fluorometer for Use with a Permeability Screen for Im-
mediate Ocular Toxicity, Darrell Maurice and David Maurice

Special Lecture
Development and Validation of an Alternative Test for the Detection
of Embryonic Malformations: The Postimplantation Embryo Cul-
ture Test (PECT), Beat P. Schmid and L. Cicurel

Conclusions

The Economic Viability of In Vitro Testing Techniques, Henry R.
Hertzfeld and Thomas D. Myers

Alternatives—A Kaleidoscope of Perspectives, Andrew N. Rowan

Poster Presentations

Cellular Uptake and Response of Primary Cultures of Rabbit Renal
Proximal Tubule Cells Exposed to Mercuric Chloride and Methylmer-
cury Chloride, Michael D. Aleo, Mary L. Taub, James R. Olson, Peter
A. Nickerson, and Paul J. Kostyniak

The Use of Primary Hepatocyte Cultures to Detect the Induction of
Hepatic Alkaline Phosphatase Enzyme in the Rat, David E. Amacher
and Donna J. Smith

Ocular Irritancy Evaluated In Vivo by Conjunctival Lavage Technique
and In Vitro by Bovine Eye Cup Model, C. A. Benassi, M. R. Angi,
L. Salvalaio, and A. Bettero

Use of Stimulated Oxygen Consumption as a Measure of Cutaneous
Perturbation, M. G. Bird, G. Witz, R. A. Scala, and D. V Parke

Differential Response of In Vitro Vaginal Tissue to Various Test Agents,
N. H. Dubin, R. B. Ghodgaonkar, and T. H. Parmley

In Vitro Detection of Cornea-Derived Leukocytic Chemotactic Factors
as Indicators of Corneal Inﬂammation, Salwa A. Elgebaly, Faripour
Forouhar, and Donald L. Kreutzer

Some Problems in Validating Cytotoxicity as a Correlate of Ocular
Irritancy, Christopher Flower

Development, Validation, and Transfer of a New Test System
Technology in Toxicology, Shayne C. Gad, Brendan J. Dunn, Frances
A. Gavigan, Christopher Reilly, and Robert D. Walsh

EYTEXTM , An In Vitro Method for Evaluation of Ocular Irritancy, V. C.

Gordon and H. C. Bergman
continued >




VOLUME 5 (continued)

Empirical and Experimental Bases for Selecting the Low Volume Rab-
bit Eye Irritation Test as the Validation Standard for In Vitro
Methods, J. F Griffith and F E. Freeberg

Incorporation of Species Differences in Metabolism into In Vitro
Teratogenicity Testing, Barbara E Hales

Inﬂuence of Reduced Numbers of Rabbits on the Adequacy of Eye
Irritancy Tests, N. S. Hatoum, C. L. Leach, R. D. Gibbons, D. M.
Talsma, J-C. Roger, and P. J. Garvin

In Vitro Methods for Assessing Cytotoxicity of Contact Lenses—Com-
parison with In Vivo Data, C. Hecquet, X. Ronot, L. Le Naour, J. G.
Josse, and M. Adolphe

Intralaboratory Replication of Results Obtained in the Hydra Develop-
mental, Toxicity Screen, Alan M. Hoberman, Eric W. Sica, Mildred
S. Christian, Betty M. Kong, and Frederick R. Kirchner

Chemical Structure—Transport Rate Relationships for Model Skin
Lipid Membranes, Joy Houk, Corwin Hansch, Larry L. Hall, and
Richard H. Guy

HET-CAM—Reproducibility Studies, Niels-P. Luepke and Siegfried
Wallat

A New Teratogenic Risk Assessment Bioassay System Utilizing Marine
Hydrozoans, Vicki J. Martin

Evaluation of the Comparative Toxicity of Intraocular Viscoelastic
Preparations, Dale R. Meyer and James P. McCulley

Cisplatinum Toxicity in Rabbit Renal Proximal Tubule Suspensions

and Precision-Cut Renal Cortical Slices, J. S. Phelps, A. J. Gandolﬁ,
and K. Brendel

In Vitro Enzymatic Toxicity Test Model Validity Approach, K. S. Jagan-
natha Rao

Use of Cultured Human Cells as Screening Models for Antipsoriatic
Drugs, Uwe Reichert, Alain Chatelus, and Gerard Pautrat

Validation of Three Cell Toxicity Tests and the Hen’s Egg Test with
Guinea Pig Eye and Human Skin Irritation Data, Christoph A.
Reinhardt, Martin Aeschbacher, Max Bracher, and Jochen Spengler

Evaluating the Percutaneous Absorption of Polynuclear Aromatics
Using In Vivo and In Vitro Techniques and Structure Activity Re-
lationships, Timothy A. Roy, Joseph J. Yang, and Maria H. Czer-
winski

A Comparison of the Toxicity of Acrylamide, Cyclophosphamide, Chlor-
decone, and Diethylstilbestrol in Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO)
Cells with Their Toxicity In Vtvo, Jane‘Ellen Simmons, Marcus
Jackson, Joellen Lewtas, and Ezra Berman

Ocular Lens Organ Culture System for In Vitro Toxicology, J. G. Sivak,
D. Gershon, A. Dovrat and J. Weerheim

Clonal Cultures of RPE Cells as Sensitive Indicators of Agents Affect-
ing Terminal Differentiation, Sabine H. H. Swierenga, Ursula Viel-
kind, and Fai Lee

Validation of the Becam Assay—An Eye Irritancy Screening Test, Peter
J. J. M. Weterings and Yvette H. M. van Erp.

VOLUME

A CRITICAL EVALUATION OF ALTERNATIVES TO ACUTE
OCULAR IRRITATION TESTING

138 pp, February 1987

ISBN -913-113-09-3

Monographs that review the history and current status of eye irritancy
testing, and examination of various approaches in developing acceptable
in vitro methods to replace the Draize Eye Test.

Co-editors: JOHN M. FRAZIER, Ph.D., SHAYNE GAD, Ph.D.
ALAN M. GOLDBERG, Ph.D., JAMES P. McCULLEY, M.D.,
DALE R. MEYER, Ph.D.

CONTENTS:

Historical Perspective on Eye Irritation Testing
Current In Vivo Testing Protocols
Adequacy of Current In Vivo Methods
Potential Approaches for the Development of In Vitro Alternatives to
Eye Irritancy Tests
Morphology
Cellular Toxicity
Cell and Tissue Physiology

 

Inﬂammation/Immunity
Recovery/Repair

Critical Evaluation of Alternative Tests
Introduction
Criteria for Test Evaluation
Test Protocols

Validation

H

LJI—INNLHLA

VOLUME 3

IN VITRO TOXICOLOGY
500 pp., May, 1985 ISBN 0-913-113-05-0
The proceedings of the symposium on “In Vitro Toxicology”
held in October 1984
CONTENTS:

From Fundamental Research to Methodology—The Necessity for
Basic Research, Solomon H. Snyder

Determination of Photosensitivity by an In Vitro. Assay, John
A. Parrish, Daniel J. McAuliﬁe, Irene E. Kochevar, and
Tayyaba Hasan

Development of an In Vitro System for Testing of. Irritants of
The Vaginal Mucous Membranes, Norman H. Dubin

Development of In Vitro Techniques to Measure the Inﬂammatory
Response—A Statement of the Problem, Peter A. Ward and
Gareth M. Green

continued P

 




VOLU M E 3 (continued)

Surface Topography and Tight Junction Int . t _ . .
and Endothelial Cell Lines, Michael A. Edidifn y m Epitheha]

Cultured Human Endothelial Cells: M k f - -_
tants, David S. Newcombe ar ers or Chemlcal Ir“

Detection of Potential Inﬂammatory Agents by Anal sis of the
Distribution of Hydrolytic Enzymes in Cultured Eibroblasts
Sharon S. K rag ,

Discussion of Posters, Robert A. Scala

Cy tOIOXiCity -Acute Testing. A Statement of th P b] D
Reed and Leon Golberg e ro em, onald

Toxicity Evaluation of Cadmium—Calcium Interactions in Cul-
tured Rat Hepatocytes, Elsze M. Sorensen and Daniel Acosta

An In Vitro Model for, Acute Toxicity Screening Using Hepato-
cytes Freshly Isolated from Adult Mammals, Genevieve K rack

Studies Using Hepatocyte Culture to Investigate the Mechanism
of Hepatotox101ty of Chemicals that Cause Peroxisome Pro-
llferatlon, T. J. B. Gray

Speciﬁc Protein Synthesis as an Indicator of Cellular Injury,
John M. Frazier

Cell and Organ Speciﬁc Responses—A Statement of the Problem,
Andrew Rowan and Paul K otin

The Use of Cultured Renal Medullary Cells as an Alternative to
Evaluatlng Rabblt Renal Tubles for the Detection and Investi-
gatlon of Nephrotoxins, A. Jay Gandolﬁ

 

Testing of Cardiotoxic Volatile Compounds in Beating Heart Cell
Cultures, David J. M iletich

The Establishment and Validation of an In Vitro System to
Evaluate Neuronal Toxicity, Harvey S. Singer

Induction of Phospholipidosis in Cultured Cells by Cationic
Amphlphlllc Drugs, Mark J. Reasor

Use of Amniotic Fluids Cells for Testing Teratogens, Nicole
Bournias-Vardiabasis

Discussion of Posters, Michael Wooder
A Statement of the Problem Alternatives to the Draize Eye Test,

David Maurice and James M cCulley

Macroscopic Assay of Focal Injury by Household Products in the
Chorioallant01c Membrane, Joseph Leighton

Comparison of Several New Alternative Assays for Measuring
Potentlal Toxicants, Dennis Stark, Ellen Borenfreund, James
Walberg, and Charles Shopsis

A Tissue Culture Model of the Human Corneal Epithelium,

Marcia M. Jumblatt and Arthur H. N eufeld

An In Vitro Alternative to the Draize Test, Kwan Y. Chan
From Methodology to Assay Procedure—The Transfer of Tech-

nology, David Brusick

VOLUME 2

ACUTE TOXICITY TESTING: Alternative Approaches

304 pp., February 1984

ISBN 0-9131 13-03-4

The proceedings of the symposium on “Acute Toxicity Testing—
Are There Alternative Approaches?” held in May 1983

CONTENTS:

Acute Toxicity Testing

Acute Toxicity Testing, Purpose, Gerhard Zbinden

Acute Toxicity Testing, Practice, Thomas E. Hickey
Regulatory Uses of Acute Toxicity Data, Paul H. LaFlamme

The FRAME Research Programme on In Vitro Cytotoxicolgy,
Michael Balls and James W. Bridges

Hazard Identiﬁcation with Small Numbers of Animals: Implica-
tvi‘?ns for Risk Assessment, Victor G. Laties and Ronald W.
ood

Poster Presentations

In Vitro Cytotoxicity Assays as Potential Alternatives to the
Draize Ocular Irritancy Test, C. Shopsis. E. Borenfreund,
J. Walberg, and D. Star.

The Toxicity of Sixteen Metallic Compounds in Chinese Hamster
Ovary Cells: A Comparison with Mice and Drosophila, A. W.
Hsie, R. L. Schenley, E.-L. Tan, S. W. Perdue, M. W. Williams,
T. L. Hayden and J. E. Turner

Development of an In Vitro Test for Cytotoxicity in Vaginal

Tissue: Effect of Ethanol on Prostanoid Release, N. H. Dubin,
M. C. DiBlasi, C. L. Thomas and M. C. Wolﬁ

An Assessment of the Importance of Sex, Skin Abrasion, Number
of Animals per Dosage Level, Number of Dosage Levels and

Method of LD'so and Slope Calculation in Acute Toxicity Stud-
ies, L. R. DePass, R. C. Myers, E. V. Weaver and C. S. Well

An In Vitro Novel Technique for Screening Antidote Potentiality
of Drugs, K. S. Swami and K. S. Jagannatha Rao

Methodology Updating of Acute Toxicity Testing, R. Bass, H. P.
Gelbke, C. Gloxhuber, H. Greim, P. Gunzel, D. Henschler, A.
Hildebrant, D. Kayser, J. Konig, D. Lorke, D. Neubert, E.
Schutz, D. Schuppan and G. Zbinden

 

Poster Abstracts

Validation of a Structure-Activity Model of Rat Oral LDso,
T. Lander, K. Enslein. P. Craig and M. Tomb

An Up-and-Down Procedure for Acute Toxicity Testing, Robert
D. Bruce

Workshops
Charge to Workshops: Deﬁnitions and Goals, Alan M. Goldberg
Opening Statement of Workshops:

Statistical Considerations and Protocols Using Small Numbers
of Animals, Gerhard Zbinden

Species and Host Factors in Safety Evaluation, Gareth M.
Green

The Preselection or Establishment of a Hierarchy of Chemicals
in Safety Evaluation, Warren Muir

Protocol Development and the Scientiﬁc and Clinical Uses of
Acute Toxicity Data, David A. Blake
Summaries of Workshops:

Statistical Considerations and Protocols Using Small Numbers
of Animals, Charles Rohde
Species and Host Factors in Safety Evaluation, John A. Moore

The Preselection or Establishment of a Hierarchy of Chem-
icals in Safety Evaluation, Robert Squire

Protocol Development and the Scientiﬁc and Clinical Uses of
Acute Toxicity Data, Paul K otin

Regulatory Implications
Summary of Meeting: Regulatory Implications, W. Gary Flamm

 




VOLUME 1
PRODUCT SAFETY EVALUATION

355 pp., May 1983

ISSN 0737-402X

The proceedings of the Symposium on
“Product Safety Evaluation:
Development of New Methodological Approaches”
held in May 1982

('ONTENTS:

The Johns Hopkins Center for Alternatives to Animal Testing,
Alan AI. Goldberg

Historical Perspective on Safety Testing, Jacqueline Karnell Corn

Legal Requirements for Safety Testing of Cosmetics, Stephen H.
AIcNamara

Regulatory Considerations Regarding Safety Testing, Albert C.
Kolbye

Industrial Practices in Safety Testing, Edward M. Jackson

Role of Toxic Oxygen Products in Lung Damage, Peter A. Ward

The Integrated Response of Skin to Toxic Stimuli, Edward A.
Smuckler

Immunologic Mechanisms of Cutaneous Diseases, Thomas T.
Provost

Alternatives: Interaction Between Science and Animal Welfare,
Andrew N. Rowan

Alternatives in Toxicity Testing, K. J. Falahee, C. S. Rose, H. E.
Seifried, and D. Sawhney

Development of a Procedure Using the Chick Egg as an Alterna-

tive to the Draize Rabbit Test, Joseph Leighton, Joyce Nas-

sauer, Ruy Tchao, and Judith Verdone

 

Alternative Approaches to the Draize Assay: Chemotaxis, Cytol-
ogy, Differentiation, and Membrane Transport Studies, D. M.
Stark, C. Shopsis, E. Borenfreund, and J. Walberg

In Vitro Ocular Irritancy Testing, William H. J. Douglas and
Stanley D. Spilman

Excitable Cells in Culture: Alternative for Acute Toxicity Testing,
C. R. H orres

An In Vitro Alternative for Testing the Effect of Organophos-
phates on Neurotoxic Esterase Activity, Albert Fedalei and
Roland M. Nardone

A Process to Regulate Tissue Function In Vitro: Alternative to
In Vivo Tests, Michael L. Gruenberg and John J. Peluso

An In Vitro Test for Predicting the Photosensitizing Potential
(PSP) of Various Chemicals, Daniel J. McAuliﬁ‘e, Warwick L.
Morison, and John A. Parrish

Analysis of Photon Emission Rates in Luminescence-Deﬁcient
Strains of Photobacterium: An Alternative Approach to Evalu-
ating Genotoxic Properties of Chemical Products, Stanley Scher

A Model for Toxicological Prediction, Raymond M. Tamura

Theoretical Predictions of Toxicity, Joyce J. Kaufman, Victor
Lewchenko, P. C. Hariharan, and Walter S. Koski

ORDER FORM

BOOK ORDER .,
DEPARTMENT {E

MARY ANN LIEBERT, INC. 4t publishers
1651 Third Avenue ‘

New York, NY. 10128 - (212) 289-2300

[3 Please send me copy(ies) of Vol. 6: PROGRESS IN IN
VI TRO TOXICOLOGY

*$85.00 USA $105.00 Overseas/Air

E] Please send me copy(ies) of Vol. 5: IN VITRO TOX-
ICOLOGY: Approaches to Validation
*$99.00 USA $119.00 Overseas/Air

E Please send me M copy(ies) ofVol. 4: A CRITICAL EVALUA-
TION OF ALTERNATIVES TO ACUTE OCULAR IRRITATION
TESTING
*$61.00 USA $70.00 Overseas/Air

Cl Please send me copy(ies) of Vol. 3: IN VITRO TOX-

ICOLOGY

*$119.00 USA $146.00 Overseas/Air

C Please send me copy(ies) ofVol. 2: ACUTE TOXICOLOGY

TESTING: Alternative Approaches
*$75.00 USA $93.00 Overseas/Air

.: Please send me copy(ies) of Vol. 1: PRODUCT SAFETY

EVALUATION
*$85.00 USA $105.00 Overseas/Air

*Please add $5. 00 for postage and handling
on US. orders only.

 

[:1 Check/Money Order Enclosed Amount $
[:1 Charge El American Express VISA Cl Mastercard

 

Card Number

 

Exp. Date

 

Signature

 

 

All checks must be made out to Mary Ann Liebert, Inc.
Checks and money orders must be drawn on a United
States bank or Sight Draft.

 

 

 

Name

 

Department

 

Institution

 

Address

 

City

 

State Zip

Please send information about:

C] Journal of the American College of Toxicology

D Hazardous Waste & Hazardous Materials

Cl In Vitro Toxicology: A Journal of Molecular and
Cellular Toxicology

Printed in USA

TOXBSS

 




JUST IMAGINE...

Dallas Pratt M.D.

Autumn in the Hudson Highlands, where I do my writing, is heralded
by the honking of geese flying south. Just the other day I saw several
of their great "V's" floating overhead. The fall has also brought
the red leaves, the red hunters,and into my house,in defiance of
Screens, a horde of ravenous flies.I have to swat them. So, the
hunters, whose activities I detest, are hunting deer in tne woods,
but I am: hunting flies in the house.

Roger Ulrich is a research psychologist who a few years ago repudiated
and expressed regret for the painful experiments on monkeys for which he
was well—known. When I wrote to him about it, he replied: "Do you
take or prescribe drugs? If you do, be damn careful what you say about
anyone else harming animals because the moment you engage in either
of these two behaviors you become part of the problem Of animal pain-
ful experimentation." I have to admit that at about the time Dr. Ulrich
was abandoning his painful experiments I was undergoing surgery without
questioning the possible use of animals in the testing of drugs,
surgical techniques and radiation from which I benefited, and without
which I might not be here today receiving the Schweitzer Award.

But ought I to be here, a.beneficiary, in a surgical crisis, of
animal experimentation; a confessed swatter of flies; a doctor who,
in medical school, studied wound-healing in dogs?How about "reverence
for life," or the "ethical man" who, according to Schweitzer,"shatters

no ice crystal that sparkles in the sun, tears no leaf from the tree,

breaks off no flower, and is careful not to crush any insect as he
"1- ‘
walks ? . _
Well, I doubt if Schweitzer the philosopher expected fallible humans

to be quite as perfect as this quotation suggests.Reverence for life

is set before us as an ideal, but as a practical man and physician the
good Doctoreused drugs which he must have known had been produced at

the expense of animals, and he d§%&éﬁ scruple to inject the victims.

of sleeping sickness with chemicals/would kill the invading trypanosomes.
In a crisis situation, a choice had to be made, and the "will-to-live"
of the parasites had to be sacrificed in favor of the "will-to-live"

of the patient. But a very significant insight is expressed by Schweit-
zer when he adds that it was not without concern that he looked at the
trypanosomes through the microsc0pe and thought about his decision to

 




end their striving for existence.

Note this emphasis on thinking about what you are doing, especially
when a will-to-live, even an apparently insignificant one, ' ' . ,v is at
stake. "Thinking" is a theme which Schweitzer emphasizes (and perhaps
the word "imagination" is closer to his real meaning) as much as he
does the better known precept of "reverence for life." He deplores a
tendency in his contemporaries to give up thinking for themselves
and instead to rely on truths Spoon-fed by authority and propaganda.

He calls it "a,declaration of spiritual bankruptcy." But the man who

has truly "become a thinking being feels a compulsion to give to every

will-to-live the same reverence for life that he gives to his own. He

experiences that other life as his own."2'

The experience of identifying with the will-to-live of an other, and
that other an animal, was expressed with great imagination and charm,
four centuries ago, by the-French essayist Montaigne. "When I play with
my cat," he wrote, "who knows whether I do not make her more sport
than she makes me? we mutually divert one another with our monkey
tricks: if I have my hour to begin or to refuse, she also has hers."3’
This wisest Frenchman of the Renaissance becomes so vehement about
the moral superiority of many animals over humans that even in our
time of animal rights and liberation he would rank as a radical.

At this stage in my life I don't know how imaginative I can pre-
tend to-be. With hindsight, and knowledge of the cruel confinement
suffered by so many dogs in medical or veterinary schools, I certainly
give much more thought than I did as a brainwashed medical student
to the distress of dogs subject to repeated experimental or "practice"
surgery. I have a,desire to make others think about it too, and that's
why in my first book I noted that my alma mater, Columbia, reported
the use in one yea%23%)no less than 1660 dogs in the William Black
Research Laboratory.

My accepting drugs in a surgical crisis without scrupling to think
at the time at what probable cost to experimental animals has indeed,
following Dr. Ulrich's blunt warning, made me humble, in fact "damn
careful: in preaching animal rights, especially to others who may have
experienced similar life-threatening situations. But reflection has

helped me to see that successfully weathering such a crisis may tempt

 




one, as Andrew Linzey wrote, to imagine a "continuous crisis situation
in which we have constantly to choose in favor of our own species."4'
Reinforced by propaganda from the research establishment, the contin-
uous crisis theory has spawned much old-fashioned animal experimenta-
tion and retarded the develOpment and substitution of non-sentient
technology.

Let's leave that for the moment and go back to the flies- which are
still buzzing inside my head. I cannot eXactly reverence them, but I
stand in awe of their will-to-live, much as Robert Frost did in a
confrontation with an almost microscopic insect, a mite which crawled
so purposefully to and fro on his manuscript. that he was moved to
address it in verse:

"...With inclination it could call its own

It paused as with suspicion of my pen,

And then came racing wildly on again...

Plainly'with an intelligence I dealt..."

This is justigxcerpt, but in his octogenarian years I heardsthe poet
read the whole poem, ““ ' titled "A Considerable Speck", with

greatsensitivity and humor.
In spite of the ability of philosophers and poets to imagine the

feelings of insects, it might be better to concentrate on animals

with whom we can identify more easily. I freely admit that one of the

take-off places in my own developing concern for animals was when the ;

circumstances of my_life first made it possible for me to acquire a

dog, a scotty named Maud who was born in my house in 1966 and still

lives there today, teaching me now about old age as she did about

infancy, adolescence, maternity and much else (including driving a

car smoothlyswithout abrupt stops which can tumble a dozing scotty

onto the floor!). And if, like Montaigne and his cat, I could glimpse the

world through her innocent eyes, I imagine it would seem a lovely place

filled with very kind people. ‘
Another milestone in my progress through a "humane education" was

in 1973 when a c011eague and I found an untended, dying little brown

dog— a female— with a gaping undressed throat wound in.a laboratory

at New York University Medical Center. I have described in my book

how we telephoned the surgeon who had operated on the dog. He said

that his experiment on the heart vessels had not be successful, and

 




 

the dog should just be "allowed to die." When nobody would help us
at the hospital- it was Friday night, the beginning of the weekend,

and the attendants had vanished- we smuggled the dog out of the build-
ing and took her to the Animal Medical.Center. There she was gently I
eased but of a world which, in contrast to Maud's, must have seemed
both ugly and unkind. We had stolen hOSpital "property" and disrupted

a scientific experiment; nevertheless I learned a lot that night

about callous institutional attitudes- and something about myself.

I think what we did was wrong in principle, but right for that dog,

at that time, in that place.

The telling of this pathetic tale is not typical of the way
experiments are described in my books. Most of them are told matter-of~
factly in the investigators' own words; the reader's imagination must
supply the rest. In Alternatives pg gala in Experiments 2E Animals, :'
I have tried to match each of the experiments with one or more alter—
native methods which spare the animals by substituting sophisticated
technology, cell or organ culture, human material (as from Operating
room or autopsy), epidemiological analysis and the like.

An important parenthesis here, however, is that there should be
more-standardization of these in vitro tests, the development of which
has been very haphazard. The effect of known cancer-causing substances,
for example, should be standardized against "reference" cell cultures,
so that these and similar tests would be reproducible anywhere. In
Britain, the organization FRAME has organized a committee of leading
toxicologists which hopes to start a research program of this kind,
'using five coordinated laboratories. Several years ago Professor
Nardone at Catholic University in Washington suggested a program for
“the United States; I hope it is being or will be implemented.

Unfortunately, the replacement of animals in experimental work,
including the develoPment and testing of chemical substances, is
likely to be a slow process, in spite of the concern of poets, phil—
osophers, lawyers and humanitarians) the declarations of animal
rights, the legislative efforts here and abroad) and the funds,
contributed for the development of alternatives. We still have 80,

 

90 or 100 million animals under experiment in the United States.

 
 

I think of those 90 million animals. A sad, almost hopeless feeling

  




comes over me. Then I think of 80 million. I feel just the same.

100 million. The same. Try it, and you will see that when enormous
numbers are involved, ten million animals more or less become meaning—
less- just cold statistics. But it's different when the imagination
focuses on that one individual animal alone with its pain in the
laboratory. I am still haunted by the image of that badly wounded
little brown dog which we found on a Friday evening at NYU Medical
Center, and which was to be "allowed to die" at some unsPecified

and unattended moment during the long weekend. Can one imagine any-
thing lonelier than an animal abandoned in such pain?And yet, although

pain is an exclusively individual and virtually incommunicable

experience, paradoxically it is the one thing which all sentient animé

als, including the human animal, have in common. So the famous question
which Jeremy Bentham asked about animalsgwhich was not, Can they
reason? nor Can they talk? but Can they suffer? must be answered

"Yes- just as we do." ,

Which leads to the second question: how much should they be
asked to suffer? This might be answered, as it was many years ago by
C. W. Hume, in this way: If animals are to be experimented on by man,
then they should not be forced to accept suffering greater than man
himself would accept. '

A corollary follows: If some experiments cannot be performed at
all without unrelieved pain and distress, then the humanitarian posit-
ion is that these should be abandoned. If this last suggestion were
acted on, it would eliminate a lot of scientific trash- like "learned
‘ ._ expeffhtkffc-
helplessness" and "pits of despa1r"A and be a challenge to human
ingenuity to find the necessary alternatives.

A final question. Can we ever extricate ourselves from the moral
dilemma of not wanting to cause distress to animals’and yet often
being forced by the necessities of our lives into benefiting from
their sacrifice? I think we are powerless to reject the knowledge
which the past relentlessly thrusts ‘upon us, including those dis-
.coveries which have, come" by a long, dark and ghastly route. But per-
haps it is possible to atone, at least in part, for that murky past,
if with will and imagination we mould the future, and put to work
the technology which.can‘ replace the myriad of suffering rats, mice,

 




guinea pigs, monkeys, cats- and little brown dogs.

Just imagine...

 




REFERENCES

l.Joy, Charles (ed.) Albert Schweitzer- an Anthology. Black, London, 1952.

2.

30¢

page 265.

Schweitzer, Albert. Out of Ex Life and Thought. Holt, Jew York, 1949.
page 158.

Hazlitt,'W. Carew (Ed.) The Essays 2: Michel Q3 Montaigne.George
Bell, London, 1893.
Vol. 2, page 134.

Linzey, Andrew. Animal Rights. SCM Press, London, 1976.
page 54.

Lathem, 3.0. (Ed.) The Poetry 9; Robert Frost. .Holt, New York, 1969.

 

 

Pratt, Dallas. Alternatives to Pain in Experiments on Animals.
Argus Archives, New York, 1980.

 




: SCIENTIFIC

an Article from I

: AMERICAN

AUGUST, 1989 VOL. 260

$3;
5
§
3.
3.
'5
§
§
5
§
§

 




 

SCIENTIFIC
AMERICAN

August 1989

Volume 261

Number 2

 

Alternatives to Animals
in Toxicity Testing

The use of animals in evaluating chemical safety is costly,

4

time-consuming and increasingly criticized by animal-welfare groups."
Alternative methods can reduce the number of animals needed

by Alan M. Goldberg and John M. Frazier

ach year thousands of chemi-

cals undergo rigorous testing

designed to evaluate their poten-
tial toxicity. Almost all of the tests
take place in animals: the reactions of
rats. rabbits and mice to chemicals are
currently the best available predictors
of the effects the substances will have
on the human organism. The intro.
duction of animal testing in the US.
in the 1920's was a major advance in
toxicity testing. and subsequent de-
bates about the place of animals in
testing were qualiﬁed by the absence
of better alternatives.

In the past decade the issue of
wholevanimal toxicity testing has be-
come more urgent and contentious.
Animal-welfare advocates have de-
cried the suffering of millions of ani-

 

AIAN M. GOLDBERG and JOHN M.
FRAZIER work together at the Center for
Alternatives to Animal Testing at Johns
Hopkins University. Goldberg. the cen-
ter's director. served on the US. Con.
gressional Ofﬁce of Technology Assess~
ment panel on alternatives to animals in
testing. research and education and is
currently a council member of the Na-
tional Academy of Sciences' Institute for
Laboratory Animal Resources. Frazier is
director of the center‘s In Vitro Toxicol-
ogy Laboratory and is currently involved
in developing measures of cell death in
cultures that would decrease the num-
ber of animals required for chemical
testing.

 

 

 

mals, and industries bringing chemio
cals to the marketplace have begun to
chafe at the costs and delays imposed
by animal testing. Meanwhile. case
histories such as that of thalidomide
serve to remind the public and testing
establishments alike of the perils of
letting unsafe chemicals reach the
marketplace. In answer to these con-
cerns. tmdcologists began exploring
possible alternatives.

Their exploration has yielded a new
methodology known as in vitro toxic-
ity testing. Literally. in vitro means
“in glass.” but biologists interpret the
term more broadly to mean research
that does not involve intact higher
animals. In vitro testing includes a
battery of living systems—bacteria.
cultured animal cells. fertilized chick-
en eggs. frog embryos—that can be
employed to evaluate the toxicity of
chemicals in human beings. Ultimately
workers hope to be able to test chemi-
cals in cultures of human cells from
various organs and tissues so that the
question of human toxicity can be an-
swered more directly.

Several factors have paved the way
for the introduction of in vitro testing.
One is the growth of the science of
toxicology itself. Today investigators
understand much better how toxico-
logical processes are begun and how
toxic effects are expressed; they need
not use the death or illness of an ani-
mal as an end point in their studies.
Another factor has to do with techno-

24 SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN August 1989

logical developments of the past few
years. New options in culture tech-
niques and bioanalytical tools allow
workers to monitor toxicity with un-
precedented thoroughness and preci-
sion at the cellular level rather than at
the organismal level.

Yet the obstacles such efforts face
are tremendous. Some are technical:
singly or in combination. in vitro tests
as yet cannot approximate the com-
plexity of interactions that take place
in a living animal. Some of the obsta-
cles are bureaucratic: no framework
has been established for approving in
vitro test procedures or for incorpo-
rating the results of such tests into
the evaluation of results from whole-
animal. or in vivo. methods.

We believe in vitro tests will even-
tually be able to meet these challeng-
es. Protocols for in vitro tests already
exist that can complement the current
panoply of whole-animal procedures
and reduce the number of animals
that are subjected to testing. it is not
too soon to begin planning ways to
integrate in vitro testing into toxicity
testing as a whole.

oxicity testing is one of the two

I major components of risk as-
sessment. the process by which

new substances are evaluated for their
potential impact on human health and
welfare. The other component is as-
sessment of exposure. The exposure
estimate indicates how many people

 




_..,. .m.

. .1. .24-... .-.....--~.r-. an... m... . ' . . ‘ . . ...»,,.. .W w-, -..M-..-.......-,..... W 0.. _-.. .. ,._ _,-_,,‘,2_~ » X

 

 

 

_,_ . ,I,.,,,...,‘ ., .-.I A- ~
. .... w; 0.. ...| 1.... u we. . u&,‘s.§a«blrh\. wx4.t.u WWI

-. U with]. \ I: u l..¢IJ-.‘t.i

v» w

 

l
I
3
l
‘9
n
,2
V’.
tr
',

’7

-- m
«I
I

6“,

x

A '0,

... , .. ' . . _ ; .. ..
"Humoo—vrov—cAwm -.A .<.. u
I

l

,"_
i
l

21")
, .

[a

-— 9..-.- ."Ww--”—_j——- - 1. :— ”—-"~'-v -7..-..- 9’4ﬁ“, ? 7.. ‘2'

"w" w---

NEUTRALRED ASSAY helps to determlne a chemical‘s effect on a dye called neutral red. Only living cells take up the dye, and
cultured cells. The cells and various concentrations of the test so cultures of healthy cells turn pink (left and middle of plate),
chemical are placed in the wells of the assay plate along with whereas cultures in which the cells have died are pale (right).

SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN August 1983‘ 25

 




will be exposed to a chemical in what
concentrations, for how long and un-
der what conditions. For a chemical
to pose a risk of notable proportion.
there must exist the likelihood of hu-
man exposure to the agent in quanti-
ties sufﬁcient to produce adverse bio-

logical effects.

Toxicity testing is required for new
chemicals introduced into the market-
place, old chemicals that are proposed
for new uses and new mixtures of old
or new chemicals. The main objectives
of such testing are twofold. The first

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and fecundity

{f}; '7 g. ﬁvqi‘} . 3-, ‘
PHOTOTOXICITY TESTS

 

 

 

 

objective, known as hazard identifica-
tion, involves determining which po-
tential adverse effectswcancer, kid-
ney damage, reproductive injury and
-' so on—canensue from exposure to a
given chemical. The second objective
is to provide data estimating the quan-
titative exposure-response relation-
ship for the chemical in human beings
and other organisms [see illustration
on page 28].
The exposure-response relationship
describes the likelihood of an organ-
ism's developing a particular adverse

STANDARD WHOLE- ANIMAL TOXICITY TESTS

Assess the effect of a chemical on fertility

9%:5” l’ V 31....
J- . a f.-

 

Measure the ability of a chemical to inﬂame ' . .
:or irritateahe skin or eyes we ,

{e1- ‘l'g

~- 13-33,, . “w r"-~ _ .
Mum v'r’ffiz‘eazr‘m: ‘2

Determine the extent to which a chemical is activated
by sunlight, thereby enhancing its toxicity

"‘2“ I :«véj. A‘k-ﬁ; 3". 10' in: :3" In

 

 

 

 

I

 

 

 

 

 

 

a“ Monitor the effect 6? a chemica‘fx‘ 4*“ mg; vﬁkwg‘r“ um;

function during development and in the adult .

- ~~ t ,_'_ . ‘ .‘ ~ _
_‘ « ' __ .x. 1 ‘5‘; , "

 

 

26 SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN August 1989

biological response as a function of its
exposure to the chemical. Such a rela-
tionship presumably exists for each
of the hazards identiﬁed for a given

'chemical. it may vary, however, de-

pending on how a person is exposed
to the chemical—whether through in-
gestion, inhalation or contact with the
skin. The age, genetic makeup and
nutritional status of the person may
play a role as well.

The LDSO test (“LD" stands for “le-
thal dose") is a classic example of an
exposure-response test. A measure of
acute lethality, the test was developed
in the 1920's to determine the potency
of digitalis and other medicinal prep-
arations derived from biological ma-
terials. It provides a statistically ac-
curate measure of the amount of a
chemical that will produce 50 percent
mortality in a population of animals,
that is, the amount of the chemical that
will kill half of them. Comparison of
LDSO values for different agents gives
a measure of relative toxicity. A varia
tion on the LDSO test is the EDSO (for
“effective dose"), which measures the
amount of a chemical that will pro-
duce a deleterious effect other than
death in 50 percent of the population.

The Draize ocular- and skin-irrita.
tion tests are other classic indexes
that are widely used today. John H.
Draize of the Food and Drug Ad-
ministration standardized the proto-
col for the ocular-irritation test in the
1940‘s; it dictates speciﬁc procedures
for measuring eye irritation in rabbits.
A ﬁxed dose of a chemical (.l milliliter
of a liquid or .1 gram of a solid) is
placed in one of a rabbit” 5 eyes; the
other eye serves as a control. For the
skin test, an area of the rabbit’ 3 hide Is
shaved and covered with the chemical
being tested. In both tests there is a
speciﬁc set of criteria for scoring irri-

tation and inﬂammation.

he LDSO test and the Draize
tests are probably the toxicity
tests most familiar to the pub-
lic; they are also the ones singled
out most frequently by animal-welfare
activists. But chemicals are usually
screened through many additional in
vivo tests. These include acute toxicity
tests other than the LDSO and sub-
chronic and chronic toxicity tests that
last anywhere from two weeks to two
years. Such tests provide information
on mechanisms of action, target or-
gans, symptomatology and carcinoge-
nicity (the ability to cause cancer) as
well as lethality.
Other tests help to ﬁll out the tox-
ic proﬁle of a chemical. Reproductive
and developmental toxicity tests eval-

 




uate chemicals’ effects on reproduc-
tive success and their ability to cause
developmental malformations, a prop-
erty known as teratogenicity. Hyper-
sensitivity procedures test for chemi-
cals that may not directly damage the
skin but may elicit instead an immu-
nological response similar to the one
produced by poison ivy. Phototoxicity
testing determines whether sunlight
will activate a test chemical and thus
enhance skin irritation.

Studies of toxicokinetics are some-
times carried out to trace the absorp-
tion, distribution, metabolism. stor-
age and excretion of a chemical. Such
studies are quite useful when the
same chemical exhibits differences in
toxicokinetics in two animal species.
Finally, neurological and behavioral
tests monitor the effects of chemicals
on cognitive functions in adult ani-
mals as well as in developing fetuses.

It is probably clear from this recita-
tion of procedures that complete toxi-
cological evaluation of even one chem-
ical is complicated, time-consuming
and expensive. Testing a typical new
chemical costs between $500,000 and
$1.5 million, takes up to two or three
years and may entail the sacriﬁce of
thousands of animals. Furthermore,
tens of thousands of products already
on the market have never been tested
thoroughly. The National Academy of
Sciences observed recently that many
of those substances might not have
been evaluated at all.

Obviously, enormous beneﬁts would
accrue from toxicity tests that are
cheaper and faster than in vivo testing.
Just as obviously, researchers will be
hard-pressed to come up with a bat-
tery of in vitro tests that can match
the exhaustive screening possible with
whole-animal procedures. Workers are
making progress on roughly half a
dozen categories of techniques.

I I 1he area of in vitro testing that
has been pursued the longest
and has been the best funded

is that of genotoxicity‘.‘ the ability of

a chemical to damage genetic mate-

rial. Genotoxicity encompasses sub-

stances that cause cancer, gene muta-
tion and chromosomal abnormalities.

Whole-animal tests for carcinogenicity

are among the most expensive and

time-consuming toxicity tests, which
is probably why more than S 70 million
has been spent in the U. 5. over the past
decade to ﬁnd in vitro alternatives.

The in vitro tests currently available,

such as the standard Ames bacterial

assay, are widely used to screen for
potential genotoxicity, but they can-
not be expected to preempt whole-

lN VlTRO TOXICITY TESTS are tests that do not take place in whole animals. Several
are in development or already in use. The neutral-red assay shown on page 25, for
example, can be applied to cultures of human skin cells to provide information on
inﬂammation and irritation (a). The membrane lining the shell of a fertilized chick-
en egg can serve the same function; here a chemical contained within the white
Teﬂon ring has produced a mild lesion (b). Cultures of liver cells (clean give indicao
tions of substance metabolism as well as of liver damage. False-color computer anal-
yses (d) help toxicologists to interpret data gathered from in vitro results. Here the
dark blotches represent dead cells; the ten and white one corresponds to a live cell.

,9—
animal tests of chronic exposure, such
as the rodent lifetime bioassay.

Another area of in vitro testing that
has a relatively long history is cyto-
toxicity testing. Simply put, cytotox
icity assays evaluate the ability of a
substance to kill cells. Some of these
assays were developed for special pur-
poses, such as screening drugs for the

- ability to kill cancer cells; others are

meant for more general use. The num-
ber of methods available for distin—
guishing dead cells from live cells has
increased rapidly in the past several
years. In fact, the limiting factor on
cytotoxicity testing is the number of
cell types that can be cultured in vitro.

Two test systems have received con-
siderable attention in the context of in
vitro cytotoxicity testing: the total cel-
lular-protein assay and the neutral-red
uptake assay. In both tests cells cul-
tured in plastic petri dishes are treat-
ed with various concentrations of a
test chemical added to the culture
medium. After 24 hours of exposure,

the test chemical is washed out of the

medium and an analytical reagent is

added. In the case of the total cellular-
protein test, a reagent called kenacid
blue is added to the medium and re-
acts with proteins in the cells, impart-
ing a blue color whose density can be
measured. Healthy, rapidly growing
cells contain more protein than dead
ones; consequently, control cultures
will be dark blue. Dishes in which cells
have been killed by the test chemical
will be progressively lighter in tone.

The concentration of the test chemi.
cal that produces 50 percent inhibi-
tion of protein content, known as the
lCSO, can be determined from the col-
ors of the cell cultures and compared
with the lCSO’s of known chemical
toxins in order to rank the test chem-
ical’s relative toxicity. This assay can
be automated to speed testing, and
it can be performed in combination
with enzymes that metabolize drugs
so that the effects of chemical inter-
mediates can be tested as well.

The assay measuring neutral-red up-
take is not too different. Developed in
its present form at Rockefeller Univer-
sity, the test is based on neutral red,

SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN August 1989 27

 




 

 

 

 

MORTALITY
(PERCENT OF POPULATION)

 

 

 

.l I

      

 

  

Ioo L006

 

lO

 

 

 

   

 

100

 

1,000

EXPOSURE DOSE (MILLICRAMS PER KILOCRAM BODY WEIGHT)

DOSEoRESPONSE CURVES help to determine the concentration
of a chemical that causes death in 50 percent of a population, a
figure known as the LDSO (left). The LDSO can serve as a useful

a dye that is taken up from the cul-
ture medium and stored by living cells
but not by dead ones. The amount
of dye retained by the cells is an indi-
cation of the number of living cells.
Again, an ICSO for the test chemical is
established by linking cell mortath to
the amount of the chemical the cells
received. The assay is then quantiﬁed
by comparing the ICSO with the ICSO's
of known toxins.

lthough they may have only limit-
ed ability to predict tissue-spe.
ciﬁc effects or effects resulting
from tissue or organ interactions, cy-
totoxicity tests do provide essential in-
formation on the intrinsic toxicity of
pure chemicals, mixtures and formu-
lations. They can also be fairly good
indicators of ocular irritation, because
cell death is a major cause of it. Come-
al epithelial cells can be subjected to
cytotoxicity testing for ocular irrita-
tion, and in fact, such tests are already
used in product safety evaluation.

The Center for Alternatives to Ani-
' mal Testing at Johns Hopkins Univer-
sity has identiﬁed more than 30 oth-
er in vitro tests that could be appropri-
ate for testing ocular irritation. Some
of these also test for cytotoxicity, but
others have different end points. Ray
Tchao of the Philadelphia College of
Pharmacy and Science, for example,
has devised a protocol to detect im-
pairment of the so-called tight junc-
tions between cells, junctions that are
important in controlling the penetra-
tion of substances through the come-
al epithelial cell layer.

The so-called CAM test, pioneered by
Joseph Leighton of the Medical Col-
lege of Pennsylvania and by Niels P.
Lupke of the University of Miinster,
provides another in vitro measure of
inflammation. In the CAM test, part
of the shell of a fertilized chicken
egg is carefully removed to reveal the
delicate, veined chorioallantoic mem-
brane (CAM) underneath. A test chem-

ical is applied directly to the mem-
brane; sometimes a Teﬂon ring is also
placed on the membrane to contain
the chemical. Researchers look for in-
ﬂammation of the membrane ﬁve min-
utes and 24 hours after the chemical
has been applied.

Several laboratories have also been
exploring cultures of human epider-
mal cells as models of human skin.
Some sIdn-cell culture methods are de-
scended from skin-regeneration tech-
niques developed for burn patients.
The skin-cell cultures can be tested for
inﬂammation much as the membrane
in a CAM test is. Measuring the biologi-
cal response to chemicals, however, is
easier in skin-cell cultures than it is in
CAM tests.

In vitro tests are also being devel-
oped to monitor toxicity in particular
target organs. The question of target-
organ toxicity is answered in vivo by
examining the organs of a treated an-
irnal for pathological changes. In vi-
tro, cells from speciﬁc organs must
be cultured and tested. Considerable
progress has been made on in vitro
screening for liver, blood, heart, kid-
ney, lung and nervous-system toxicity.

The techniques for culturing hepato-
cytes (liver cells) are particularly well
developed. Methods of in vitro hepato-
toxicity testing, derived from experi-
ments in liver research, involve isolat-
ed liver cells. liver slices and isolated,
perfused whole livers. Human hepato-
cytes have already been used in some
tests; where the cells of other animals
are used instead, in vitro target-organ
data can still reduce substantially the
number of animals needed for conclu—
sive results. Enough tissue can be ob-
tained from two or three animals to
conduct studies that would ordinarily
require from 20 to 40 animals.

The purpose of these in vitro sys-
tems ranges from identifying chemi-
cals that speciﬁcally produce toxicity
in the liver to determining the meta-
bolic kinetics of chemicals and the

28 SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN August 1989

 

  

index of toxicity; toxicologists plot the entire curve, howev-
er, because at low concentrations a chemical with a high LDSO
can sometimes be more toxic than one with a low LDSO (right).

way in which they are excreted. Test
systems based on rat hepatocytes can
also evaluate cellular markers for po-
tential toxicity. As more knowledge
is obtained about the mechanisms of
toxic action of chemicals in organ sys-
tems, new in vitro methods can be
developed to test for these effects.

rogress has also been made in
P identifying in vitro systems for

evaluating teratogenicity. The
key to teratogenicity testing lies in es-
tablishing the relation between in vi-
tro indexes of toxicological response
and the complex process of differen-
tial toxicity in the developing organ-
ism, particularly in the human fetus.
Although many of the alternative test
systems proposed involve whole or-
ganisms-from the hydra or fruit fly
to frog or rodent embryos—and there-
fore circmnvent the problem of ex-
trapolation between cell cultures and
whole animals, the systems still have
signiﬁcant problems in predicting hu-
man teratogenicity.

In some cases, mathematical and
computer models may be able to sup-
plement the information provided by
in vitro testing. Mathematical pharma-
cokinetic models are already helping
toxicologists to estimate in vivo tox-
icokinetics from in vitro data. Com-
puter-based “structure-activity" anal-
yses attempt to correlate general toxi-
cological responses with aspects of
the molecular structure of the test
chemical. Such methods are current-
ly empirical, but they should improve
as speciﬁc mechanisms of interaction
are related to chemical structure.

The complexity of the exposure-
response relationship seems, howev-
er, to rule out the possibility of mak-
ing sound predictions from theoreti-
cal principles alone. The response of
an organism to a given exposure of a
chemical results from a diffuse array
of interdependent processes at the mo-
lecular, cellular and organismal levels.




in addition to the absorption. distri-
bution. metabolism. storage and ex-
cretion of substances described by
torrdcokinetics. the outcome of an or-
ganism's exposure to a chemical also
depends on toxicodynamics.

Toxicodynamics has to do with al-
terations in the biological system that
are a consequence of the presence of a
chemical in the system [see illustration
below]. At the molecular level such
alterations are biochemical: they can,
for example, inhibit an enzyme critical
to normal cellular function. At higher
levels of organization the alterations
are manifested as tissue pathology or
as clinical toxicity.

if a human being is exposed to a
chemical. the toxicoldnetic properties
of the chemical determine whether
the agent or one of its metabolites will

TOXICOKINETICS

TOXICODYNAMICS

TOXICOKINEI'ICS AND TOHCODYNAMICS describe a chemical‘s
interaction with a living organism. The chemical depicted here
causes liver cancer in rats. The absorption, distribution. me-
tabolism. storage and excretion of the chemical are speciﬁed

ultimately reach a sensitive cellular or
molecular target and initiate a biolog-
ical response. if the reactive form of
the chemical does reach the potential
target. the toxicodynamics determine
to what degr‘eé the agent will adverse-
ly affect the human being. The ulti-
mate expression of pathology depends
on the human organism's ability to
repair toxin-induced damage at all lev-
els of biological organization: the mo-
lecular and cellular levels as well as
the levels of organs and tissues.

The toxicokinetics and toxicody-
namics of a chemical and the ability
of a biological system to effect repair
all come to bear on the exposure-re-
sponse relationship. it is easy to see
why it is challenging to predict human
toxicity with anything short of a whole
organism. Indeed, current predictive

toxicology draws not just from whole-
animal experiments and theory but
from a historical data base. compiled
over years of experience. that relates
the results of in vivo testing to hu-
man epidemiological data and even in
some cases to the outcome of acciden-
tal human exposure.

he foregoing discussion of tox-

icokinetic and toxicodynamic in-

teractions underscores the most
obvious and important advantage of
whole-animal testing: it provides an in-
tegrated biological system that serves
as a surrogate for the complexities of
human and other animal systems. in
vivo tests have several other features
that must be reckoned with. They can
be used to assess the outcome of
exposure by different routes (whether

a o —;~i' ’ ' ‘1
.:'.,..-.,
:5.“ .80 ’— 1

 

 

 

“'-" “'11—“.
' '1 ‘ .c

_ .
1....4‘ -‘_.

by its tordcokinetics (top); the effects the chemical and its me-
tabolites have on an organism are the toxicodynamics (bottom).
Because they involve many levels and systems. toxicoldnetics
and toxicodynamlcs are hard to predict without animal testing.

SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN August 1989 29

 




 

 

 

 

 

\l
1

 

 

 

IN VlTRQ ‘TQXICQKIN‘ETIC‘DATAj

 

 

 

 

 

lN VlTRO TOXlClTY DATA

fr. ,.. '(DOSE-RESPONSE . .

’" ’ WIEMTIONSHIPS)

l

 

 

 

 

 

HYPOTHETTCAL RlSK- ANALYSIS PROCEDURE would eliminate animals in toydcity
testing and incorporate in vitro data (blue) and computer-based evaluations (orange).
Although the realization of such a scheme is still many years away. some in vitro
methods can be introduced now to reduce the number of animals needed in testing.

through ingestion. contact with the
skin or inhalation) and over long pe-
riods (chronic toxicity tests can take
a year or longer). in addition. whole-
animal studies can be designed to de-
termine whether or not particular tox-
ic effects are reversible—an important
parameter in risk assessment and risk
management.

How might in vitro testing pro-
vide the same information? Would it
be necessary to have one in vitro test
for every potential targetoceli type in
the body? How can in vitro tests eval-
uate tordcological responses that in-
volve. say. immunological processes
or blood pressure? How can they eval-
uate chronic toxicity or recovery from
toxic insults? How can exposure by in.
gestion. inhalation or topical contact
be simulated? These problems must
be solved if in vitro tests are ever to
replace in vivo testing completely.

Another potential stumbling block
concerns the testing of human-cell
cultures. which. because it would elim-
inate the need for species extrapola-
tion. is billed as one of the beneﬁts of
in vitro testing. There are a few hitch-
es. Currently not all human cell types
can be cultured; some types of cells
“‘dedifferentiate" in vitro. that is. they
take on the qualities of primitive. un-
specialized cells instead of retaining
the characteristics that identify them
as muscle cells. spleen cells. colon
cells and so on. Furthermore. the sup-
ply of normal human cells available
for toxicological testing is somewhat
limited. in order for human cells to be
routinely employed in toxicity testing.

some means of making them more
readily available must be found.
These obstacles should be weighed
against the disadvantages of whole-
animal testing that we have already
mentioned: animal discomfort and
death. species-extrapolation problems
and excessive time and expense. in
vitro tests could ameliorate all of
these problems and several more. For
example. whereas whole-animal test.
ing is hard to standardize. the stan-
dardization of in vitro techniques is
fairly straightforward. Furthermore.
the dose of a chemical that is received
by each cultured cell can be measured
and controlled with precision. making
it easier to establish the critical con-
centrations of toxins. Because much
smaller quantities of a substance can
be used. novel compounds available
in limited amounts can be tested. and
disposal problems are minimized if a
compound turns out to be toxic.

lems inherent in introducing any

new technology. it also takes time
to gain acceptance for a new technol-
ogy when the incumbent technology
can boast a 50- to 60-year record of
empirical ﬁndings. Before any new in
vitro test can become a regular. rouo
tine source of toxicological data. it will
have to be validated. That means it
must be shown to be reliable (to give
consistent results in different labq
ratories and at different times in the
same laboratory) and meaningful (to
provide information that contributes
to chemical safety evaluation). To pro-

It takes time to overcome the prob-

30 SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN August 1989

    

  

mote acceptance. toxicologists must
also begin to compile data bases for in
vitro tests so that better predictions
can be drawn from the results.
Contrary to a prevailing mispercep-
tion. in vitro tests need not replace
existing in vivo test procedures in or-
der to be useful. They can contribute
to chemical safety evaluation right
now. in vitro tests. for example. can be
incorporated into the earliest stages
of the risk-assessment process; they
can be used to identify chemicals hav-
ing the lowest probability of toxicity
so that animals need be exposed only
to less noxious chemicals. Such a pro-
cedure would reduce the number of
animals tested and would also save
time and the expense of research and
development for products likely to fail
subsequent safety evaluations. it is en.
couraging to note that several corpo-
rations have already implemented this
approach in their testing strategies.
in any case. insisting on comprehen-
sive replacement of existing tests will
only delay the implementation of in vi-
tro methods indeﬁnitely. in vitro toxic-
ity testing will not replace animal test-
ing in a single. quantum step. in fact.
regulatory mechanisms do not yet ex-
ist for review and approval of new in
vitro testing methodologies for chem-
ical safety evaluation. With time. in
vitro testing will become more ﬁrmly
established. and it will eventually play
a critical role in the safety-evaluation
process. it is our hope that this goal
will be attained with the support and
encouragement of industry. regulato-
ry agencies. the scientiﬁc community
and animal-welfare advocates alike.

 

PURTHER READING

lN-VITRO METHODS MAY OFFER ALTERNA-
TNES TO ANIMAL TESTING. Ron Dagani
in Chemical and Engineering News. Vol.
62. No. 46. pages 25-28; November 12.
1984.

A CRITICAL EVALUATION or ALTERNA-
TWES T0 Acun: OCUIAR IRRITATION
TESTING. John M. Frazier. Shayne C.
Gad. Alan M. Goldberg and James P.
McCulley. Mary Ann Liebert. inc.. 1987.

PHARMACOKINETICS 1N Rtsx ASSESSMENT:
DRINKJNG WATER AND Hmm. Vol. 8.
National Research Council. National
Academy Press. 1987.

PREDICTION or CHEMICAL CARCINOGE-
NICI’W 1N Rooms FROM 1N VrrRo GE-
NETIC Tox1cmr ASSAYS. Raymond w.
Tennant et al. in Science. Vol. 236. No.
4804. pages 933-941; May 22. 1987.

FOURTH lNTERNATlONAl. WORKSHOP ON
IN th0 TOXlCOLOGY. Edited by
M. Balls and L. J. King in Xenobiotica:
The Fate of Foreign Compounds in Bio-
logical systems. Vol. 18. No. 6; June.
1988.

 

 

 

    

 




'1 . aa—‘Q'MZWmM

”“914- yi’L .a A,
BABY GUELS AT BlON-O LAKE
HAVE DIED

Ht N. NGRMAN D. SHUl‘v’iil’AY
OF CALIFORNIA
IN re: House or nsrrrsenrarrvss
Monday, July 27, .7981

a Mr. SHUMWAY. Mr. Speaker, on
July 22, the Los AngelesTimes pub—
lished a disturbing article which re
ported that nearly all of the baby
gulls at Mono Lake have died this
year. Researchers indicate that a lack
of sufficient food~in this case, the
lack of brine shrimp xvx'hich have
alvvays been readfly available~is to
blame for this most recent turn of

events. The problem. is no doubt linked

to the increased salinity levels of the
vvater and the continued deciine of the
lake level because of water diversion
by the cry of Los Angeles.

.

As my colleagues are aivare, I recent-
ly introduced legisla ion-HR. 4057——
which would establish the Mono Lake
National livfonument and thereby pro-
vide recognition 0 wnensurate with
the significant biological and geologi-
cal resources of the Mono Lake Area
Although such action would not inter.
fere with existing water rights in the
Mono basin, HR. 4057 would promote
greater visibility and increased man-
agement for this precious national
treasure. ‘

I urge my colleagues to join myself,
Mr. THOMAS, Mr. Fazro, Mr. DYMALLY,

SSIONAL RECORD--E.vfezz.v'oizs of Reuzm‘les

Mr. LANTOS. Mr. MARKEY, Mrs. FEN-
'WICK, Mr. Foasyrns, Mr. Bomos of
Michigan, Mr. EDGAR, Mr. YOUNG of
Alaska, Mr. WINN, and Mr. HYDE in
sponsoring HR. 4957, and in calling
for hearings at the earliest possible
dat . Surely, as the following article
points out, this issue deserves to be ad-
dressed by the Congress in the imme
diate future.
[From the Los Aztgeles Times. July 22, 1981}
me. ALL or Beer GULLS A'I Mono LAKE

' vr; :n—Deor 1:: Foot) SCPPLY BLAME!)

(By Robert A. Jones)

The gulls of Mono Lake have suffered an-
er disaster. Almost all of the baby gulls

is s ring’s hatch have died, apparently
because the adult birds were unable to find
sufficient food in the lake itself.

Researchers say the cause' of the food

.

Y

LY
D?

.-

ih
' t

Lo

- a

shortage has not been es..ab..shed ut sever-
al indicated that “circurns’antial” evidence
pointed to the continued decline of the lake
and increased salinity levels of the water.

The volume of the lake on the eastern
slopes of the Sierra N erada has been shrink-
ing steadily as a result of a Lvaier diversion
:rograni by the city of Los Arse-ales.

Only a month ago, the gullc were believed
to be having a modestly successlul year on
their breeding islands in the midst of the
lake. Surveys counted 11,700 chicks, far
below past levels but more than some biolo-
gists had expected.

Even as the survey was aking place, how-
ever. the newly hatched chicks were weak-
ening from lack of food. The brine shrimp
in Mono Lake that air-says have been used
by the adult birds to feed their young sud-
denly were not available. The chicks began
to flounder, some succumbing to heat pros~
tration or parasites, others start ing out--
right.

At last count 9792. of the chicks had died,
according to Larid Winlder, A university of
California ornithologist. “Unlike most gulls,
these. feed on a very narrow diet, and when
it doesn’t come through they have nowhere
else to turn," Vi’inkler said in a telephone in—
terview from Berkeley.

Starvation is only the latest of plagues to
be visited in the gulls over the last few
years. Returning to breed each year, they
have found the lake smaller each time as
Los Angeles continues to draw on streams
that normally feed the lake.

At present the city diverts about 100,000
acre feet per year for its own uses, and as
the lake has shrunk it also has bared land
bridges connecting some of the breeding is-
lands to the shore. Coyotes, lurking in the
mainland, were then able to trot across the
bridges to feast on the gull eggs.

A technical, solution to this problem was
attempted in 1979 by blowing up the land
bridges with dynamite and then, when that
failed, by constructing a large fence across
the peninsula The birds, now reduced to
small fractions of their original numbers,

ventually abandoned the connected islands
and repaired to sites still protected on all
sides by mater.

The lat est blow caught both conservation-
ists and city water officials by surprise.
Though salinity levels in the lake have
risen, laboratory tests have suggested that
brine shrimp could tolerate those levels and
eren more.

Nonetheless, research at the lake this
spring by another University of California
biologist showed that one hatch of the brine
shrimp had fallen to less than 10 percent of
past levels. It was this hatch that adult
birds would have used to feed their young in
June and July.

Trs is lli’)pl‘cfﬁﬁtld‘lil"E’u and unexplained,"
said Daxid Gaines. he 1’ of the. Mono Lake

~: :.:r.it:ee. a conservation group. “It is too
early for a scientific evaluation, but I don’t
know of any explanation being advanced
other than those that deal with chemical
changes taking place in the lake."

Gaines noted that a second hatch of brine
shrimp now reaching adulthood has re-
stored the population of shrimp to near-
normal levels. But this haich, he said. has a
different life cycle and its eggs are not
forced to survive the v7: er at dimn lake

‘\-id
I?»

hatch.

' a' , .‘41-‘1.. «f
IEJE‘IS as is the case V11”; tie “is.

If the first hatch has Stet cu

, ..
“he
."
‘.

reasing salinity of he
a I‘v

t;
the gull-s are finished I
there‘s no hope for the it:
and it means that the oiher birds who use
the lake during migration (and eat brine
shrimp) will be forced elsewhere.”

An official ft the Department of "Water
and Power. which conducts the dive sion
program, said the department has begun
studies aimed at determining the cause of
the gull deaths.

“We don’t have an explanation at this
point." said Bruce Ktiet‘er. senior engineer
at the depa rt merit. but added that, a prelimi-
rary analysis might be available in sereral

A
days. 1/

‘

 




 

 

FUND

L...

E‘s/- \\ ,1! I" T. I .- ' ,
mun & 'rsrs'rse. % “\~
The International Laboratory for
Research in Animal Diseases (ILRAD)
centred at Kabete near Nairobi, has
as a major objective the eradication of
trypanasomiasis from the tsetse infested
, areas of the world. \Vhilst the untold
f damage such a project, if successful,
_' could do to the fragile semi-arid areas
1’ by permitting cattle and goats to
overgraze is well~known, some scientists
engaged on the project are cynical and
look upon their work as “'ust another
job”. The utter irresponsibility of
such a programme is indicated by the
FAO ﬁgures which indicate that 2.7
.' million square miles of tropical Africa
gwill be affected; 120 million head of
‘ cattle will be introduced to convert a
semi-arid region into true desert. By
1 1979 FAO had committed £155 million
and estimated that over 40 years £1,000
million would be needed. Some areas
of tsetse country include the. limited
‘ forests which are already under pres-
sure; it is proposed to destroy the
forests and replace with pasture. Spray-1
ing will also employ pesticides banned

   

 

 

 
 
  

WC 53: i -- D \t’V 11 D .I H

 

, in the U.S.A.—«D.D.T. and the organo-
‘ chlorines.

   

It is many years since the late
r. L.S.B. Leakey remarked that a
statue should be erected to the Tsetse
Fly——The Saviour of Africa. The situa-
tion has not changed.

For over eight years David Hop-
craft, working at Athi River, has been
trying to put into Operation 3 game
ranching programme to demonstrate
the value of game meat in preference
to cattle on marginal land, and has met
with apathy, procrastination and plain
unhelpfulness. But it is in the game
animals which can resist drought and
tsetse ﬂy that the future of meat supply
in Africa lies. In Kenya with a popul-
ation increase of 4°/o per annum the
meat supply is falling alarmingly;
between 1976 and 1978 meat production
fell from 32 million tons to 9.5 million
tons. During the same period of time
the population rose by 1;} million.
This is not due to pasture land being
used for grain production, as it has
become necessary to import large
stocks of grain-~-200,000 tons from
South Africa and 100,000 tons from
elsewhere during last year alone.

The utilisation of Kenya’s game

animals for food production is becom-
ing ever more significant. Conservation

weeoeoo

22

ill

‘1
ll
. ‘1‘.
ft
MW»...
,

of the herds and the building up of
game populations to allow the sub-
sequent excess to be used to feed the
human pOpulation is vital. Casual
killing of animals which threaten agri-
culture is wasteful and indicates a
complete lack of policy which has
marked the wildlife scene for decades.

Herds of antelope can breed-up
very quickly; with a policy of-game
utilisation the growing threat of protein
deﬁciency and the irretrievable damage
to the semi-arid land by overgrazing
with unsuitable goats and cattle can
be quickly overcome. But it is necessary
to take such action now as the problem

. i already with us.

CHEETAH SKINS FOR SALE.
Cheetah skins are being sold openly
on street corners in curio shops in
Johannesburg. Farmers in the Transvaal
still regard cheetah and wild dog as
vermin. In a farming publication a
hunter recently advertised cheetah as
trophies at US$480 and wild dog at
US$40. In \Vest Africa too cheetah
are trapped and killed as vermin; but
elsewhere in Africa, including Kenya,

 

 

the species is in steady decline. A
1, proposal to transfer 40 cheetah from

Southern Africa into Kenya has made
. ittle progress.

SOVIET WHALING IN
SOUTHERN OCEAN. -

A Soviet spokesman in the Agricul-
ture Ministry stated that apart from
taking a few individual whales to meet
the needs ofthe indigenous communities
in the USSR’s far North, all whaling
will stop in the Soviet Union‘s eastern
waters. However, most of the Soviet
whaling is carried out in the Southern
Ocean for minke whales, once con-
sidered too small to be profitable. In
1980 the Soviet Union took 4,000
minkes. The 1981/82 International
Whaling Commission’s quota for all
whale Species is 13,753, down from
15,883 in 1980/81. \VWF/IUCN have
been urging a moratorium on all
whaling for the past nine years. The
Indian Ocean has been declared a
whale sanctuary.

TROPICAL RAIN FORESTS.

The tropical rain forests which gird
the earth around the equator are of
critical importance because they contain
between 30 and 50 3/; of all the world‘s
species of plants and animals; they also
play an important role in the protection
of. soils and watersheds and supply
food and other necessities for local
people. These are currently being
felled and burned at the rate of 110,000
km‘2 a year; at this rate virtually all

   

  

Cheetah; still threatened.

 

 

r-.. .- -T.._.TT..._. m...” . , _.T w .-__ ...
i . ‘ - ’ . 5
D 7 1 .. I. K " .' :
i 2; M" ‘N as“ _ _
. a. ~ 1'.‘ a. _ - .
P .. . 7. "5T" . q 1 :- ' ,
__ -  . :25. .v ; .2
7v. . " —‘ ‘ 2:»:
-: i ' V "(5:33: \
‘ i /;€- in >
[if r-I , f.
!. -' -. ‘9
l_._ W}, «‘
s. / ., i
.f. ‘5 .
‘o'i/i } 2,
H x. 1‘ - ,
l .,_ P , 22..“
t \
‘ Li} k! if”
1%" --
1 v '1: ‘~ -
Q ,:
, u 1.4. ,2 - i -
E. ' {.10 . .. i _ ’ f%\ .
s g > v f I; .g
V/f' ‘. ‘3. ' .12" ~
/ .- " ~' 1 x‘ " ~
.1 I: 5 .‘ ‘i. -’Y it " ’3 ‘:
f f, v a“! i E $5,..- > . f: .
't : ~’§;-:_L*fi;~ ’ 3h
- :- x; {it t . ’ I F‘ i ' i
as). it“s‘i‘zz - ,‘ ,1. 3 ‘3‘
.s.’:,_jt;§§ tip-,ﬁ .’ ..
a 3. . y: ‘ ‘ .\ ‘4‘ , . ' ‘7 ii - Q ; . I 5‘-
g ‘t,’ '5: it?“ I; t: I)“: i" I I“.
.L' ,0 {fii'rgki‘ i k
.. ,. v. . t: s _ ,- . c
'— Q .‘2. v? . § . . ' ‘ '_ v‘ ..
- ~33 st. .- .
U ' L A, g: t": \ {g . . V ' Ti
‘3 -~ ~ 4 a; . , . A
a: -‘ ‘ 5 I g . - .5
O ..._.__ s. ..— 45‘ 4k..-‘ I: .5. Lu“ . ~

 

such forests will have disappeared in
85 years!

i In Kenya the forests and even the
Forest Reserves are being steadily
destroyed; in some instances the in-
digenous forest is being replaced with
exotic timber trees but elsewhere forest
land is giving way to maize shambas.

ASIATIC WILD DOG.

The Asiatic \Vild Dog, Cuon alpinus,
a relative of the Cape Hunting Dog of
Africa is steadily disappearing from
most of its range in the same way and
for similar reasons as is the Hunting
Dog. Loss of habitat, depletion of
prey and persecution by man, together
with susceptibility to canine distemper
have all contributed to the elimination
of this formidable predator. A WWF/
IUCN Project is being undertaken by
A.J.T. Iohnsingh to carry out a
detailed study of the wild dog of India.

VICUNA LN” PERU.

Following controversy over the
culling of vicuna in Peru, \VWF/IUCN
selected Dr. Norton-Grifﬁths of Nairobi
to conduct a survey and carry out a
census ofthe vicuna pOpulations.

It was found that the original
estimates of 15,000 (carried out in
April 1980) was a serious underestimate.
The revised ﬁgures presented by Dr.

  




- THE'TIMES FRIDAY JULY 17 198?

. Laboratory
animal
tests down

By Hugh Clayton
Agriculture Correspondent

The number of experiments—
Iicensed under the Cruelty to
Animals Act fell in 1980 for the
fourth successive year. a Gor-
ernment report published yes-
terday states. The number of
legal laboratory tests with
animals has reverted to the
levels of the mid-1960s.

Last year’s total of 4.6 million
experiments was about the
same as for 1966 and a million
below the figure for 1970.
The National Anti-Viviseaion
Society attributed last year’s
reduction to cuts in research
finance and to the growing use
of alternative methods.

The report showed that
almost half of the 9,100 experi-
ments allowed last year in
which substances were applied
to the eyes of animals were
used to test cosmetics. Almost
2,000 animals were used in ex-
periments which included what
the'report called "‘burning or
scalding by any means”. .

More than 20,000 mice 'were
subjected without anaesthetic
to what is defined in the report
as " use of aversive 'stimuli,
electrical or other,‘ for inducing
a state of psychological stress,
integral to experiment.” 1

 




 

EL... ..--w .- w.1...-- ._ .. _. .... - ., ..m .../z... v _ . . WM “Hana-unit.

A marksman taking aim at an adult male
hooo’eo’seal from the bow ofhis vessel.
Photo: WSPA/John Walsh

seal had difficulty as the animal was
wounded and conscious. After a
great effort the seal was finally killed.
The following morning the hunt com-

shot, tame ctr:.:“rrly not dead. They re-
quired repeated btows with the haka—
pik. Another r'hate was shot twice at
close range but remained conscious
and attempted to attack sealers as
they continually struck the animal. On
one occasion the hakapik stuck in the
seal's head as he fought off the sea—

lers.

Regarding Harp seals, JR. Bedding-
ton and HA. Williams of the Univer—
sity of York (England) conducted in
7980 a study on “The Status and
Management of the Harp Seal in the
Northwest Atlantic”. This study was

.... km». 'ul : : .
Scientific Advisory. panel. I’xt
same time, those responsrble for
setting quotas in Canada should be
queried as to their views on the study
and its conclusions.

From what information I have been
able to gather in connection with
Hooded seals, there is reason to

(alt.

- question the governments of Canada

and Norway as to their sources of
information to justify the current
quota of 15 000 Hooded seals from
the ”Front". ‘

 

(A more detailed report can be obtained by
writing to WSPA Headquarters in London.)

 

H.-J. Weichert*

Horse Transport
by Rail

from Poland to France

The Central Transport Office of the
”Deutsche Bundesbahn" (German
Railroad) organized on 78 Maréh 7937
the inspection of a horse transport by
rail from Poland to France in Bebra
(Hess/a), the first freight railroad
station after Gerstungen on the bor~
der between the Federal Republic of
Germany and the German Democrat—
ic Republic. The World Society for the
Protection of Animals was repre—
sented by its President, Dir. H.-J.
Weichert and its Regional Director for
Europe as well as by its expert Prof.
Dr. H. H. Sambraus of the Munich
University. Of the German animal
welfare movement the following
were invited: Mrs. Anne/iese zum
Ko/k, President of the ”Arbeitsge—
meinschaft Deutscher Tierschutz”
(Working Group for German Animal
Welfare), and Dr.Andreas GrasmU/ler,
President of the ”Deutscher Tier—
schutzbund" (German Animal Wel—
fare League) together with his Busi—
ness Manager; further were present
representatives of the German Rail-
road and of the authorities of the
State of Hessia together with border
veterinarians and representatives of
the Polish Foreign Trade Centre in
Warshaw and of the International
Transporters Hartwig in Katowice
(Po/and) — a total of about 20 persons.
Add to it reporters and photographers
of a sensation~hungry press. How-
ever, the main actors in this show
would be 78 horses, expected to
arrive at the dra fty ramp of the freight
station in Bebra.

* President, WSPA

6

l

The larger portion of the horse trans—
ports from Poland goes to Italy," the
German Railroad has no part with
that. France takes the second rank
among importing countries, with 50—
70 000 horses annually, however, by
far the larger part of horses destined
for France are transported in trucks.
While in 7978 still 58 000 horses
passed by rail through Bebra, only
38 000 came through Bebra in 7979,
the figure to drop to 8900 in 7980.
According to a statement of the re-
presentatives of the German Rail—
road, there is, however, the intention,
to raise again, by and by, the figure of
horses transported by rail. (Ed. )

The guests of the German Railroad
assembled on 78 March 7987 at 9.00
hours on the platform of the freight
station in Bebra (Hessia). Nine freight
cars carrying 78 horses lined up at the
ramp at 70.30 hours. Four Poles had
accompanied the transport. Eight
cars were destined for Apach
(France) and one for Gent (Belgium).
Immediately upon arrival, the car
doors were opened and the horses
led to the watering troughs, with a
separate enclosure provided for the
horses of each car. The maximum
number of horses carried per car was
ten, with the car surface measuring
33.3 m2.

 

 

 

 

/ Poland
l/ German Democratic Republic
Ill Federal Republic of Germany

IV France

Wa rsa w
Rzepin
Bebra

Apach

ANIMALS lnternational l/3

 




Horses on the ramp of the railroad stop Bebra
awaiting to be watered. WSPA Photo

The animals gave the impression that
they had not been properly cared for.
Thus they had highly neglected
hooves. Several horses displayed ex—
terior wounds, some of which were
inflicted during transport, others of a
date lying further back. The nutritional
condition of these mediumsize hor—
ses could not be criticized.

A few horses immediately drank from
the water, other drank not at all, and
some only later. The latter ones
seemed especially disturbed.

While the horses were watered — for
about one hour — the straw in the rail—
road cars was shaken up and hay was
added. Prior of being returned to the
cars, the horses were inspected by
the border veterinarian. Of the total of
78 horses, three were sorted out:
one suffering from jaundice, another
one with oedemas in the legs, and a
third one with a chaffed neck. These
three horses were subsequently de-
livered to the slaughterhouse in
nearby Bad Hersfeld. One could,
however, assume that these three
horses would have been admitted to
further travel had it not been for the
presence of so many observers.

A horse which was not separated
from the rest with destination slaugh—
ter house was bleeding from the
nose; another one had a fresh chaff—
ing wound on the nose.

While en route, the horses were
placed at a right angle to the direction
of travel. As a separation device

Horses considered unfit for continued trans-
port by train awaiting truck transport to the
slaughter house. WSPA Photo

served one round beam each to the
right and left of the car doors.
Returning the horses to the cars pro-
ceeded without any difficulties, and
immediately the horses started to
eat.

According to the Polish representa-
tives, this transport left the day be-
fOre, on 17 March at about 17.00
hours, Rzepin, the border station bet—
ween Poland and the German Demo—
cratic Republic. According to them,
the horses were transported to
Rzepin by truck, with the journey
lasting 10—12 hours. Before the hor—
ses were loaded onto the cars, they
passed inspection through Polish
veterinarians and those of the Ger-
man Democratic Republic. The trans—
port arrived 16 hours later at Gerstun-
gen, the border station between the
German Democratic Republic and the
Federal Republic of Germany. 11/2
hours later, the transport pulled up at
the ramp of the freightstation in
Bebra.

It might be true that the horses spent
10—12 hours in trucks to get for
instance from Warshaw to Rzepin,
but it remains to be cleared how long
it took them to reach the collecting
point in Warshaw. After all, the hor—
ses were assembled there from all
parts of Poland, including also East-
ern Poland. How many more hours,
even days, would have to be added?
And how long did the dispatching in
Rzepin take, and how much time did
it take before the train started rolling?
The stop—overs in the German Demo—
cratic Republic, including the control
through the local authorities, might
also require clarification. It was over-
heard, at the ramp in Bebra, that dogs
of the East German border police
enter the cars to search for possible
escapees, who might hide under-
neath the straw. It would certainly
excite the tied horses to a high
degree when suddenly large, fero—
cious dogs jump into the cars.

At 15.00 hours, the horse transport
left the station of Bebra. It was to
arrive on the following day, 19 March,
at 05.00 hours, that is, 14 hours later,
in Apach on the German—French bor-
der. Thus, we would arrive at a total

‘ 1
g

'4

 

 

A Polish horse destined for slaughter in

France returned to the railroad car after being

watered/n the Federal Republic of Germany.
WSPA Photo

rail transport time 0t 48 hours, it
nothing unforeseen happened. ln
practice. however, quite a number of
hours would have to be added if one
considers the time spent on bringing
the animals in Poland proper to War—
shaw or whatever other collecting
point, and furthermore ~ as already
mentioned above — the time of their
stay in Rzepin and during the controls
in the German Democratic Republic.
The fact has also to be considered
that the journey does not end at
Apach. Watering, inspection and
transfer to the French authorities take
time, and then the transport of the
horses continues, whether to Paris,
Lyon, Marseilles, Bordeaux or what-
soever place — until the horses reach
some French slaughter house.
Another consideration enters: the
East—German Railroad allows a horse
transport through its territory only
when it consists of 15—20 cars; or
else the cars are added to other
freight trains. The West-German Rail—
road, according to information re—
ceived, allows already a separate
train consisting of 10 cars.
Furthermore, it should not be forgot-
ten that extremes in climatic condi-
tions, namely great heat in summer—
time and considerable cold in winter,
add to the suffering of the animals.
The representatives of the West-
German Railroad admitted that as yet
it had not occurred to anyone to
measure the temperatures within the
cars.

There is no guarantee that the horses
are being watered every 10—12
hours. As it became evident in Bebra,
some of the animals are so excited
that they cannot immediately take up
water.

Conclusions

It is insensible to a high degree to
transport slaughter animals across
the whole of Europe; especially
horses are particularly vulnerable to
stress. Even if some improvements
could be achieved, which would
essentially include the shortening of
the travel time, not much would
change in the general situation.
Moreover, Poland started in 1978 to
transport their horses by road to
France and other countries. While
until 1978, 97% of the horses were
transported by railroad, the figure has
dropped to 20% of this total, and the
road transport rose to 80%.

It should be realized that transport by
road is by far more trying on the
animals than rail transport. The route
for road transport goes over Helm—
stedt. Ideally, there should be a ramp,
for unloading and loading, but as
water is not available, the horses
cannot be watered. The border vet—
erinarian takes only a brief look into

 




     
 
 
 
  
   

   

 

the trucks and therefore, cannot
ascertain the condition of the horses.
Frankly, this is a scandal and urgent
changes must take place.

Effective removal of abuses during

Annabella B. Singh *

Field Work in India

Summary of a Report

In India, because the cow is held to
be sacred, Hindus do not normally eat
beef. However, beef is freely con-
sumed by non—Hindus such as Mos—
Iems, Pars/s, Christians and foreign—
ers. The slaughter of cattle is carried
out by members of the Mos/em
community in the Mos/em manner,
which is that the animal should be
bled as thoroughly as possible at the
time of slaughter in order to reduce
the bacterial content in the meat.
With the exception of one privately
owned beef exporting plant, all
slaughter of cattle in India is carried
out on fully conscious animals.

The animals must be restrained on
the ground (cast) before their throats
can be cut, and the struggle to throw
off—balance heavy water—buffalo and
bullocks causes mental stress to the
animals as well as bruising and injury
to their bodies. To avoid these un—
desirable factors the rendering un—
conscious, or ”stunning”, of animals
prior to their slaughter was intro—
duced in Britain as far back as 7904,
and for almost three quarters of a
century the stunning of animals has
been recognised in western countries
as being both humane and practical.
In order that the benefits of pre—
slaughter stunning should be more
widely appreciated in the East,
WSPA’s Advisory Director in India,
Mrs. AB. Singh, organiseda team to
tour the south of India in November
and December of 7980. The team
consisted of Mrs. Singh herself who
was responsible for the tour and who
took photographs and gave talks on
the principles of stunning at the
various functions and press confer-

nnnnnnn l I

----§ -q- a- A --

live animal transports for laughter
can only be accomplished by imple—
menting a carcase trade. Animals
must be killed at the slaughter house
nearest their place of origin and the

 

INDIA

J!

 

 

 

 

7 Bombay 6 Kottayam

2 Madras 7 Koothatuku/um

3 Bangalore 8 Ernakulam (Cochin)

4 Mysore 9 Trichur

5 Trivandrum

of WSPA, the team ’5 expert on

humane slaughter who gave demon-
strations on stunning in the various
veterinary establishments and
slaughter houses and explained the
working of the different instruments;
and Mrs. 82B. Vatcha and Mrs. P. B.
Shroff of the Chetak Trust for the

- welfare ofanimals in India.

Bombay
Mr. Parkinson arrived in Bombay on
Friday, 74th November 7980, and the
following day a visit was made to the
abattoir at Deonar in Bombay for him
to see the local conditions of slaugh—
ter and to examine the type of cattle
which the team would expect to en-
counter in the south. Indian cattle are
quite different from those found in
the west and the opportunity was
taken to examine the bone structure
of the heavily horned species and to
measure the thickness of the skull.

  

meat has subsequently to be trans—
ported to the receiving countries in
refrigerated or cooled cars.

For humane reasons, continuation of
the live trade cannot be justified.

Madras

The Madras programme was ar-
ranged by the local Blue Cross of
India Society who also very kindly
provided transport. A demonstration
of captive bolt stunning of cattle
using Accles & Shelvoke's new con—
tact firing "Puncher 8000" was
carried out on two bullocks at the
Municipal Corporation Slaughter
House, and the film was screened to
the butchers and slaughter house
staff in one of the old slaughtering
halls. This was the team's first
demonstration of captive bolt stun—
ning on cattle in India and, although
the initial reaction was cautious, the
general response was not discour-
aging.

The Blue Cross of India had also
arranged for the team to do a demon—
stration of captive bolt stunning of
pigs. Two demonstrations took place,
one at the Government Veterinary
Hospital at Saidapet, and the other at
the Madras Veterinary Hospital De—
partment of Meats which is a section
of the Tamil Nadu Agricultural Uni-
versity. On each occasion Accles &
Shelvoke’s ”Mark 2” stunner was
used. The humane slaughter film was
screened.

At a press conference the working of
the different instruments were ex-
plained in detail, and several news-
papers later carried news items cov-
ering the team's activities in the city.
Before leaving Madras members of
the team called on Mrs. Rukmini Devi
Arundale, WSPA’s other Advisory
Director in India, with whom they had
valuable discussions. They also vis-
ited the Municipal Corporation Dog
Pound which was very distressing
with the dogs herded together in one
large room. The building was dilapi-
dated and young puppies were tied
together in bunches to prevent them
from escaping through the broken
bars of the walls. A dead dog was
seen lying among the living. The

--- A. A Q. I.

 




 

 

~ 1 I . r . V.
o. A -1 La
. ul‘.:.l.>~—-TT£ ‘IS C111'l1 )1" 'fl‘.

: 3e los‘. 1011: an:

. 5 ' pa control '11: 25111:. each

. 11. i- a ibed b3 the thick end and
Mhacked on the cement floor three
times. l111' doesn tbreak, we ship it out,"
says Bates. “A snath will outlast seven
blades, and we've never had one re-
turned because it broke in use." A snath
retails for SlQ to $23.

A (30— it 3oursel1er Mho Mants to make
his 0'13 11 snath can try the technique used
in the old days. In the fal1, a farmer
V on old selecta '1 suita le sapling and stick it
in the manure pile. Come Minter, after
the uric acid had softened the wood, the
farmer would draw out the sapling and
bend it to_his 03311 liking while sitting by

K.A. ANDERSON

Guard Donkeys

It you raise sheep or goats, think about
keeping a few donkeys, too. According to
Dr. George Haenlein, a professor of
animal science at the University of
Delaware, donkeys are protective by na-
ture and most predators don't want to
tangle Mith them-

Haenlein has been rearing donke3s
33ith his goat herd since l9>7, and he
maintains that they make better guard-
ians than dogs. Dogs require more train-
ing and attention he points out, and
sometimes an inexperienced or poorl3

trained dog 331ll injure the animals it is
supposed to protect. Donkeys are con-
tent to receive the same care as their

charges and would never turn on them.

It's best to introduce a donkey to your
goats or sheep as soon as possible after its
birth, Haenlein says. Then it will accept
the other animals as its 03311 kind and
become protecti3e of them when it's
grown. "\‘1'l1en a preda1o1 comes
ar,our1d the donke3 Mill bare his teeth
and 11133 e3en charge. He ll bite and kick
at the predator and although he Mont

often kill it he Mill tire it and scare it
23133 the pro! 1essor maintains.

Haenlein s p. aise tor his guard don-
ke3s 1s ecnoed b3 others Mho depend on
these sturd3 animals to pro tect their li3e-
stock. Ha1net\\'hitb1ead of \1enna

’1ginia says her donke3 sleeps at the
goat- barn door e3er3 night blocljng the

\Ju/ﬂ f/EL
ﬂPj/i /,8/

 

. 3 stays 31.1

3 '1; 11’1tstu‘111‘1t1'1: titld Thi£1r~
s:-:n*:t<1cor1siderti1: dC nkC3 one (11'
h::::11st1'1e (1nl3
aiitre. 111 the barr

T13: Morris of Rail.

12s been protec11g his sheep M'ith
t‘ 35 for the ast F1 een 3ears Cur-
ren t13 pihe has se3ent3 i3e donkeys
guarding tn 0 thousand or so e33 es. One
3ear I had fitt3- -six sheep killed b3 three
Doterman pinschers But since Me 3e
had the donke3 s in the ﬁeld. l don t think
we've lost a single eu‘e to a dog." he says.
He adds that some donkeys 1.1ake better
guardrans than others "O11he se3ent3-
the out there, ma3he se3en or eiEht do
all 1he protecting Those are the most
aggr 1essi3e ones, he says.

Haeenl in sue gests tha 1burros re-
*nmed 110m §outh33 es 1celcnd b3 the
federal Bureau of Land Ma.- age-ment
should be taken to sheep 1131 ms in W30-
mingandlda ho Mhercthe e3c canbebred
toproduce guarddonke3s Bu tthere's at
leastonesheept armer in those parts 33110
ma3 not need them. John Lye 01’ Mor-
ton, Wyoming, had been losing ten to
ﬁfteen sheep to coyotes e3'er3' year. Last
year. he didn't lose any. His secret?
Llamas from South America. The
coyotes seem to have dex‘eloped a
healthy respect for the llamas' formida-
ble size. keen eyesight. and spitting abil-
ity, and they've been leaving Farmer
L3 e's flocks alone.

k
t
t

I ',,.
1a ‘51

 




THE TIMES SA'ruRDAY jULY 25 19s:

Factory farming eris

is

Britain to press EEC
for urgent reforms

By Hugh Clayton, Agriculture Correspondent

Britain will have a rare
chance in the final months of
this year of influencing pro-
gress throughout the European
Community towards eliminating
the mOSt criticized forms of fac-
tory farming.

\Vhen meetings of the EEC
council of farm ministers re-
sume late in September, Mr
Peter Walker, Minister of Agri-
culture, will take the chair until
the end of the year. That role
will give him authority to write
the ministers’ agenda.

Members of the Commons
Select Committee on Agricul—
ture have given him six months
to produce evidence of advance
throughout the Community
against cruelty to calves, chic-
kens and pigs. Meanwhile, the
animal welfare lobby led by the
Royal Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals will
campaign at Westminster for
the select committee’s sug—
gested reforms to be written
into British law.

They include any endwto
rants for building factory
izarms; ’ a
'liquid feeds for calves, better
government-backed training in
welfare for farmworkers and
regular farm inspections by
state veterinary surgeons.

The select committee’s report
is one of the most radical
official documents about farm
animal welfare to be published
in Britain. It marks an impor-
tant victory for the disorganized
legions of the animal welfare
lobby over the highly disci-

plined political machines of the
farmers’ unions. l

The committee concluded
after taking evidence for eight
months that ministries respon-
sible for agriculture were much
more interested in yields and

rofit than in welfare. “We
have a feeling that welfare is
still regarded as a tiresome com-

‘plication engendered by vocal'

sentirnentalists who need to be
_placated at minimum cost' to
producers’ profits”, the Con-
tservative and Labour MP5 on
..the select committee observed.

The farmers’ unions realized
as early as January that the
initiative in the committee’s
deliberations was slipping away
from them. The knowledge
came when Mrs Fiona Dal-
rymple, convener of the pigs
committee of the National
Farmers’ Union of Scotland,
said that shoppers would not
pay extra for meat and eggs
produced away from factory
conditions.

Sir \‘v'iliiam Elliott. chairman
of the committee, and a farmer
for many years, said: “\N'ill it
interest you to know that fol-
lowing a ﬁsh of this select
committee to an intensive veal
unit in Normandy, I have not
touched veal since, because of
the way those calves are
kept?”.

“dustry demands
,, . . ”Any other system is bound to
ban on excluSively

Despite vigorous lobbying
behind the scenes the farmer:
failed to regain the initiativt
and the select committee even-
tually demanded changes it
many methods of keeping live-
stock in buildings.
[3 Chickens: The committee con~
centrated on battery chickens.
which have succeeded veal
calves in recent years as the
main target for welfare cam-
paigners. Almost all of more
than 50 million egg-laying hens
kept on British farms are
housed in battery units, com-
prising tiers of cages ranged
in long sheds.

The standard cage used in
Britain measures 20in by 18in,
and usually contains four or
five birds. The conditions in
which battery birds are kept
are controlled by voluntary
codes of practice. Welfare cam-
paigners, led by the RSPCA,
want a ban on battery cag'es.
Sir Richard Butler, president
of the NFU of England and
Wales, said: “The poultry in-
its retention.

result in greatly increased egg
prices.”

Experiments on a govern-

ment farm into economic alter-
natives, allowing birds more
freedom to move, encouraged
the select committee to demand
an ultimate ban on battery
cages throughout the EEC.
D Veal calves: Criticism of the
system in which veal calves are
penned in tight crates on liquid
feeds throughout their lives has
been_muted by the growth in
Britain of roofed yards where
the animals circulate freely.
The committee’s report was a
nutable public relations coup
for the company which has
pioneered the new System.

But most veal sold in British

restaurants is still bought from
the much larger continental
veal industries where tight
crates and restricted feeding
are wideSpread. The feed is
controlled to produce white
meat rather than pink, and Sir
\‘Villiam called on British
restaurateurs to abandon their
“foolish addiction to exces'
sively white meat ”.
DPigs: PigSties and pigs free
to roam in fields and orchards
are. increasingly rare. Most
British pigs are kept in sheds
where conditions in some have
been condemned by welfare
campaigners.

Just over half of sows which
become pregnant are kept in
individual Stalls, often with
concrete floors and steel bars.
The advantages are that the
animals cannot fight over their
food or injure each other, and
inspeCtion is easy.

‘v'elfare aCIivists condemn
close confinement of sows
without straw bedding, on the
ground that it is cruel to an
animal originally bred to root
in and wander outside.

Lilli”,
,ﬁi.
'1’!

s .
x , (n
‘ 5‘
'b

. t

‘6
Ad
4

5" II
I"
1’... .-'

‘ \
l 1-:
. -'$

b

«Finn‘s m’-;$£¢ J All

 




n o c.01‘.
gate ( ‘

i “at?
4;, like .J’ ...V.i....£..4

rite

[.va.‘rvgfgjmny'etrpmv'em iﬂtfﬁmmg-ﬂ wws‘ﬁx’ts‘ﬁﬂtfﬁ” J... ,

.‘¥
\

7.1, /r ”in.
.i..\/ M

11y ('iareth Parry

liritiuli iat‘inet‘s should ﬁnd
iiiiel'iiallte methcds to replace
iii. lltlt'llr.l\e‘ ‘factory farm-
111.1" systems used to rear veal
tai‘v't‘s, pigs and battery hens,
an all party committee of 1111’s
1. ported yesterday.

lint the Commons .
ture t‘oiiimittee’s findings
amount te a stinging indict-
ment of the whole philosophy
and priorities of the Ministry
of Agriculture in dealing With
Lilillllu‘. \‘s't‘ii‘LtI‘C.

in an unprecedented attack
on liiitish farming pi‘aCticcs, as
dirt-vied and organised by the
ministry, the 1111’s said:
"inihcy has, until recently at
it‘asl, been directed towards
t'\t'i‘-i;l‘e'ulcl' productivity and
profit. and that the welfare of
the animals concerned has
['ii.;\‘t‘ti at best a minor part in
imiiisterial and ollicial think-
ink."

The select
limits in

Agricul-

committee con-
these trenchant
it'l'lllsi “’l‘oday, whether owing
to more ei‘ilightened ideas or
in rtsponse to public pressure,
animal welfare is receiving
iiint'v attention, but we have a
feeling that it is still regarded

if 'i’ ‘ ’
:s we”...

1‘

.l
‘7-
£3

2‘:

as a tiresome complication
engendered by vocal sentimen-
talists who need to be placated
at a minimum cost to pro-
duccrs’ profits. To the extent
that this is true, it is high
time for a change of attitude."

The committee calls for an
early end to battery egg pro-
duction; the abolition of the
rearing of veal calves in
crates; and condemns the prac-
tices wot docking pigs’ tails and
trimming the beaks of poultry.

The 1111’s took an unexpec-
tedly hard line because a Con-
servative member of the
committee, Mr ltichard Body,
voted on crucial points with
three Labour members Miss
Joan Maynard, Mr Stanley
Newens and Mr Tom Torney.

Mr Body's support repeatedly{

allowed Labour to defeat the
more moderate welfare line
favoured by the other commit-
tee members Mr Douglas Ilogg,
Mr David Myles and Mr John
Spence who did not, for in-
stance want a simple phasing
out of battery cages in the
absence of acceptable alterna-
tive systems.

The report recognises a
swing in public opinion against

MWWWWlm’ﬁﬁMWmhmméiﬁ‘tﬁmhmﬁucar‘sHoaapégssiaégd-aé . as :‘tfs‘ $Mya£wﬂé§2 QWMWM \ I

r

_ rt

.
. .‘

. A
J“ I) m ‘

intensive farming methods. Bri-
tish housewives, say the 1111’s,
want to be able to buy
humanely-raised veal and they
criticised the catering trade for
its “ foolish addiction"
white veal.

More research mttst also be
carried out in behavioural pro-
blems caused by intensive rear-
ing systems, and the
Government must make more
money available for this if
necessary. The report also re-
commends tougher inspection
and enforcement by govern-
ment agencies with authorities
ready to prosecute in far more
cases.

The Government’s
policy should avoid
ing undesirable
husbandry, and
animal welfare

taxation
encourag-
methods of
research into
should be of

equal importance to efficiency"
‘of production.

0n veal calf production, the
report urges the Agriculture
Minister, Mr Peter Walker to
seek EEC agreement to take
measures which will bring an
early end to veal calf rearing
in crates, and he is asked to
report his progress in January
next year.

.“Iie should also try to con-
Vince the catering trade of the
advantages of loose-housed
veal, and should encourage
labelling which makes

inade
created
calves!’
1110 report strongly recoup
inends that crahxi producdon
be discouraged and that crates
should alhnv enough freedoni
of niovernent for calves to
grooni thenwelves turn round
ancllie dovvn in cornfort.

Steps should be taken to
“ relieve frustration and bore-
dom’l in intensive pig produc-
tion systems where sows are
tethered or kept in stalls and
efforts should be made to de-
velop alternatives to the close
confinement of pregnant sows.

“As soon as these are estab-
lished as practicable and econ-
omic, notice should be given
that close confinement will be
phased out over a reasonable
period. Government should
support the necessary research
into alternatives."

More research needs to be
done on the very early wean-

availabie to
production

facilitate
of veal

M , . .. clear:
to ’the method of production. No:
1‘ grants of any kind should be

that apart from
‘ phaslng out of battery egg pro-

«53 q {a “fie- ,9, T19

{3; 7 :3 Q: .., - .;.‘ .

,ing of piglets in cages and pigs

should not be kept in total
darkness or deprived of bed.
ding material.

’l‘ail docking should be
avoided, castration prohibited
except on veterinary grounds,
and action should be taken to
make producers comply with
existing conditions.

The committee also proposes
the five-year

duction, imports of eggs front
this source should be banned.

Priority in allocating re-
sources to research and de-
velopment should be given to
work on the welfare as well as
the technical and economic
aspects of alternative systems,
including straw yarns and deep
litter as well as aviaries and
“ get-away cages.” In the mean-
time, minimum cage sizes
should be established and any-
thing less than 550 square cen-
timetres should be refused.

Sir Richard Butler, president
of the National li‘artners’
Union, said the committee had
recognised the place of inten-
sive systems in modern agricul-
ture “although it seems to
neglect thefact that farmers,
above everyone else, have a

‘. ‘ .j: ‘ ".A'mwingr“ *1MW “ awlﬁﬁwwmw -=~vs;=;tz.v;mzswrQWivmilWM’ ~ "‘ as, -

if

E ’i' .- ‘.._. é . . : i i f .V
. i a I ' ‘ ' .1 I “ii 'I ‘ M. .I 1'1. "

vested interest in ensuring that
good welfare standards are
maintained on their farms."

However, the l\‘l"t__i said it
Opposed the abolition of bat.
tery cage systems, which had
worked well and were humane.

"’l‘he poultry industry de-
mands its retention. The battery
system is ellictent and any
other system is bound to result
in greatly increased egg
prices,” said Sir Richard.

The British Poultry Federa-
tion also disagreed with the re-
port's findings on battery egg
production. The chairman, Mr
John Maundcr, however, said
that the depth of the study
was impressive and would
“ provide a valuable spring-
board for further consideration
of this important issue.

“In particular, we welcome
the committee's conclusion that
intensive systems of husbandry
are not inevitably incompatible
with animal welfare and
that they found no cause for
concern over the production of
broilers, turkeys or ducks in
this area. We believe the select
committee is also right to in-
sist that animal welfare must
be seen in the context of the
EurOpean community."

~—

THE GUARDIAN Friday July?-

liut when Mr Maunder said:
“Our chief area of disagree-
ment with this report is over
what is described as the ‘ultra-
sensitive' system of batieryi
cages. llaving argued cogetitlyl
for further research into a?
viable alternative before any
decision is taken, and drawn
attention to the danger that
any alternative may be no
better. or even worse, than the
battery cage, it suggests that
sums in the order of £1157 mil-
lion should be expanded mean-
while. in order to allow the
battery hen more space in the
cage.

“This will be money down
the drain if their conclusion
that the battery cage should be
phased out after five years
were also to be accepted.
li‘accd with subsidised esport
of eggs from other i-IerC coun.
tries, this is totally linpOssible
for beleagured British egg pro«
ducers in any event."

Farmers ioint to the ineffec-
tiveness oi banning battery
cages. Switzerland did so a few
years ago. and the price of
eggs trebled. The Swiss con~
sumcr demanded that the sys-
tem be brought back -- and it
was.

_ _ _._———-.._..———-——
. . -_. _ Mfg

l

 

. ,3. 3%;ch ...W. by? 3“." ' ”

l
l
l




   
  
 
 
   
  
    
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
   
  
   
 
   
  
  
   
   
   
 
  
  
   
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

AT LAST SOME GOOD NEWS.

The three main National Parks in
Uganda continue to be in far better
condition than the Game Reserves,
which have few large mammals to be
seen. Habitat conditions in all Parks
and Reserves are generally good and
offer plenty of food and shelter to the
wildlife that .is there, in particular the
rodents and birds which are reportedly
thriving! Ruwenzori National Park
has the best news to offer as elephants.
are increasing due to migration from
Zaire. A recent monthly aerial survey
counted 332 elephants compared to
150 a year ago. Kabalega Falls National
Park is still suffering from poaching
by Tanzanian soldiers, of whom there
are currently 19,000 in Uganda. Hope—
fully, their removal from Uganda in
the near future and the presence of
Antipoaching Units will solve that
problem. The situation in Kidepo
Valley National Park is very bad due
to continuing raids by'Sudanese military
forces, despite complaints at a high
level by Uganda to Sudan. In early
February a heavy battle between Ugan-
dan rangers and Sudanese soldiers
resulted in deaths on both sides. The
aerial survey to assess the condition
and state of wildlife in Kidepo has
been re—scheduled for March.

Various random observations
around Uganda include two groups of

' v
'o
l
. .
l
3
I

't'rrww

 

 

Uganda kob seen beside a track passing
through the beautiful Semliki Game
Reserve, but sadly no mammals at all
were seen on a six day walk and
climbing holiday in the Ruwenzori
Mountains over Christmas. However,
thetremendous mountain scenery, luxu-
riant and unusual vegetation, good
mountain huts, friendly porters and
brilliant weather over this period should
encourage move visitors to the Ru-
wenzoris.

International Aid and Conservation
agencies continue to donate equipment
and support personnel in Uganda’s
Parks, the latest received being a
consignment of 10 Landrovers. The
\Vildlife Clubs of Uganda have also
been fortunate in being given transport
in the form of a Suzuki from \Vest
Germany, due to arrive in June, and a
mobile ﬁlm unit due any day from
IUCN/\VWF. Sll’ARA is now supplied
free to each of the existing 87 Wildlife
Clubs of Uganda.

In January, 20 teachers attended an
interesting and stimulating 5-day Senti-
nar organised by the Wildlife Clubs at
Mwea in Ruwenzori Park. This was
opened [by the Minister of \Vildlife and
Tourism with lectures from staff of the
Institute of Ecology, AWLF, IUCN
and one representative from the \Vild-
life Clubs of Kenya. Charles Birigenda,
the current WCU Organiser is to
depart to Canada later this year to
attend a two year course. His replace-
ment has already been selected for his
experience as a teacher and enthusiasm
for wildlife conservation.

European Black Stork (Cicom'a nigra).

_. -...,._. ,..,.-

..._—— .— .._.,—.—-—.-‘. .. ,_ *3: .73..

/.
.0

i thn naya‘st‘d.

‘ C!

are soon to release them into the wilds
of Israel, not far from their native /

 

 

 

 

TIME FOR ACTION.

As we enter this decade, grim
predictions by the United Nations
about the deteriorating quality of life
an increasing number of people can
expect by the year 2000 should spur
Governments and individuals into real
action, instead of only lip-service. By
2000 AD, the world's population will 3
have increased by more than 50°/o 5
from 4 billion to 6.35 billion. More
people will starve and there will be ever
increasing losses of farmland, grassland,
forests and decreasing supplies of fresh
water, timber and ﬁsh. At the present
rate, by the year 2000 about 40 if, of :
remaining forest cover will have gone
and between %—-2 million plant and
animal species will have become extinct.

STORKS AND SAKER FALCONS.
We all know about the illegal trade
in rhino horn, elephant ivory, spotted
cat skins, turtle shells and crocodile
hides, but few people are aware of the//
trade in birds~dead or alive. ‘\
last year, thousands ofﬁmjgrﬂagng. t
storks from Wuftﬁﬁliﬁrlca were ‘
ea'geFIY’a“\Faite'd~in Eastern European
villages, but did not reach their destin—
ation. Thev were massacred in LebﬁﬂQlLé
where their bodreETﬁ:'r’e“dT§cEided and
their beaks collected, although for
what purpose is not clear. Last week I
saw a European Black Stork on a dam
in Nairobi National Park and I wonder
how he will fareon his journey to his
breeding quarters in a week or two? g
West German Customs Oﬁ‘icials I
are to be congratulated for detecting i
incorrect documentation accompanying 5
four Saker Falcons arriving from Abu ’.
Dhabi. These rare birds of prey can t
only be exported or imported under
strict conditions which were not met
in this case. It was fairly clear that
their export from Abu Dhabi was
illegal and their import into Germany i
would have also been against the f
CITES regulations. As a result, the f
four birds were placed in the care of g
the Frankfurt Zoological Society, who /-

 

        
    
 
   
   
 

Syria. ,

  




\

.‘\ (11.1)SSY

. I
1
) w-~_5..54_ - *- M-

—-‘>-a- w

by NlCOLA TYRER

brown hen,
1111111111! 111111L‘l11111'1ntly on
«.1 “111111111 l’itt5’5‘ shoulder,
'11‘ 1.111 111'eetthet‘self.lle
11 111111 p1tttetlhet‘.
111.11L311L'llb Lire my friends.
111.11’5 the way I went to
1 11, 11 there W115 any

11 111 here with 5‘11111ething
1.1.111; with it 1 would notice
..111‘ 1 \1'1111111 111: 111111: to catch
.111 1111111:1111111111e het‘.’

!1 could 111: any small
1111111-1‘, 11111111111 to 11111-
‘1...’1111111:1l 1111:11111115‘ talking.
'1‘..11111 l’itts is neither. The
'11'11111111211‘ \VL‘ \VL‘l'L' Siillltllll):
,11 111111111111;11 1,1101) hirds 111111
1'1111.:;11tl1e11e115111yhei1‘e1;1;5
.. 11.111111111111 111:5ti111; 111111'es,
we collected 11v '11
winch L'11515 £1,111.11).
'1 111111:1‘111111I111 report. 11111)-
.1 1 11151 '1'1111151111y recent-
.1111? 1111: 111111:1ltt1; 11111 (if

‘1.1tt11y 1'1111e 51’51L-111 111°

111111111L'111111 111111 [111:

1‘| . 1I\‘
1.\l.|.11)!)1

11.111111:

‘1 3.. .‘ i ‘. )‘

-)'-‘

I 1 ’) ‘I i . Ii» . .
11.151; gluing... MMH-u-V. 01...».111w‘1115 8‘:me .1.‘15.111.~~.au4mm5w-:w1£1&{$1.5 11 .LL'?‘

Former Martin Pitts and hls healthy tree-range hensl

”/f‘ezn 111

0 “Op

111
Q 31.1..

development of
humane alternatives.

Mr 1’1115 11115 spent; the {1115:
live 31:1115 developiiu; just
such 1111 11111:‘,1111111ve l11r 111111
itWLly the 1111;;51e5t producer 111
flee ~111111;e e1;1;s 111 tlte
country, 111s hens l11y Still
dozen 11 day, tn1111y of which
end up, not only 111 he1tlth
1111111 51111115, hut in the copper
11yit11; 1111115 ot out most
esteemed L‘he15‘ who f1tvot.n
1111111 1111 1111111 freshness 111111
whppitu; qualities.

111.- 15 111511 tlte only person
111 11r1111111—-—po.5.5‘111ly even in
l-I‘;‘11t11p1—~-p11111ucin1; eggs on
1111.5 5c111e without relying on
1111tte1y c111;e5‘

llis 111etl1111l of egg pro-
duction 15‘ known us the
.1v1111y systetn 111111 1115 hens
111e Vety dilletent creatures
11‘11111 thLit titnotous 1111t1ety-
1‘1:111'e11 c11115 111.5‘, llttttety hens
live only 111‘ 11111111115 111111
5111:1111 1111111151. 1111 111111 tinteI

m 011‘ e

/.'.I
-., 1 ‘1
1 ," 1 1 ’
{j r... ..‘.'I .‘
.’ .04.}, 23‘.- ’ . ‘I‘
I .- . ,It I L
,I v . 1 t _. .1. .t
[Hz/(1'1“, 1:11 0- 1
'1‘ 1'1. '5» 5,1 ‘4
. %

. ‘ 1
31-”.va 1‘):
I- 4_ 9

.
1
9‘3, 'r.

)

I
,15
.151, ,I"

4

b

1., 1

" 1

1 "I I,“
I

”I '(L/I‘. . '.

‘ P
_-"' I 1' 5 2
1, ,1)va

1,,
V
1

I ‘1
19171,-
I I
11 7
'-‘.II“

1 4 . r’

531 5?. . 4, ‘ F ‘L:

1:,1-31. 1.

HS

in a cage with four or five
others. "lo prevent cannubul-
15111 they we often debeuked

They have 11111111111, to 1111
except: luy eggs on the 111111:
111111: ”11111 111111 poke their
heads throu1;h the 11111‘5‘ 1111‘
101111 and water 15y the end
111 their short life tltey tire
11e11uently 1111111 ft‘otny the
11111111111; of the 1111‘s 111;1111151
their neck 111111 11re115‘t
feathers 11111111re lit only tor
chicken pie fttctot‘ies

Mr l’itts’ s hens tire plump
glossy. 111111115111ve11ntl sweet
s1ne111111;..'1hey ut‘e tt‘ee 111
wuttdernnywltere111 the hen.
house, which is divided into
straw-covered 1111111‘ 5‘p11L-e
111111 oVe1‘11e111l perches, 111111
111 tlte runs outside. 'l‘htIy
l11y their e1;;1s in ne511111;
l1t1xes pl11L‘ed 111 correspond-
ing heights 111 thei1 petches
11nd 1111: 1111 11y nutontntic
teedet with whole grain
1111111 tivc times 11 titty,

- -\b.'-A A xﬂ'nilsiﬁ 1 9.1.114 1‘ .I.

\mkm 15111.11 at wa '14:"

‘They are my friends,’ he says.

are we

In the eyes of (he convenw
111111111 farming community,
Mr l’itts, who 1111‘1115‘ 101)
acres near Marlborough,
Wiltshit‘e, has achieved the
impossible. l’ut those
numbers of hens together,
111111111111; 111111111 111111 pecking
in their own droppings, he
was told, 111111 you’ll lose
them 1111 through disease
11ndL111111111111listn.l’erch
them in tietetl pet‘sche 111111
tliLy deteL1tte 1111 e11cl1 other.

Although tlte ptophets of
Mount were [noted wrong,
Mt l’itts is convinced, despite
the 1;11od intentions of the
111e1111e15 or the (011111111113
A1I,ricultur111 C111u1111ttee,thtt
his 11111111111 will neth hecotne
the 5111111111111 1511y 111 ptoduc
1111; e1;t‘,5' 1111 131111111115511111111et.

111 the 111‘5111111ce1he e1;1;5I
W";()Il out too 12:.1111111511'1:.
Secondly it involves 11111111111211
M111; 1111 the 11vL-111,.I,1: 1111111L111

L~_1;1I, producer.’

 

-111 e

' 1111111: “Down

nens

Eggs {7mm Levets Farm re-
tail 111 the 51111115 1111 between
£14111! £1.20 11 dozen depend
1111; 1111 tthe shop’s own 111111 1‘ 11p
system.ltis1111‘1;11y111115‘1111ce
11111111Lte1111111e5‘ the condition
the hens CIIJU)’.

‘.'1'11e5‘e henhouses are ex-
pensive l1ec1ntse the hens 111'1:
11111llyc0ddled, We have
tin/ens of little hittltt‘oont
Strip lights, itts‘teud of one
“It: Olte 11e1:.1u:.e 1:1111;Ili.51.-1l
lighting is better for them.

’We take out 5‘p1tce wi1L-1e
extra 111: us could go to hive
11 view1111; 1111111111111. 1 don’t
like ever to 111: 111111‘L 111111
1011 tt‘ont ttny 111 my birds.

"The way 1 keep 1113115
makes it 11 16-hour day. We
helieve itt ‘111111111111tion, yes.
The hens are fed 111111-1
1111ttiL‘1tlly, the ears collected
111111'111111ti‘.c1111y But we see
11111011111111111 us 1111 11111 to 1.1111111
5111cl111111115hip not 11 51111
stitiute 1111‘ it.

1

l
l
l
1

. _.___-‘_._._.. .
u l

‘ . o

9/

‘1

/ J 121 11:.

A;

/'

 




J . v
7) ll . 2
, l .k.

2 " I?

‘ .-.
k .
. - \
t.» - k .c
If r. b. i;
. 5.,
" , U K i“ D; ‘
} .
.— v, 4 w. _.
A .« . . ., .

.
Elsi

,K‘

. b ~\
. i ”at
... :
. .

v

.1 ._ ,-'

«- ~ no.

"'1' WE‘V-"ﬁ: ‘3“
w .

 

The world is spending almost
one million dollars A MINUTE
on “defence” robbing the earth
of resources needed in the war
against poverty. (UNEP)

(USES 525,600,000,000 per year
———roughly 1000 Kenya shillings
for every man, woman and
child on the globe. This is more
than the annual income of many

 

 

African families)

 

 

Threat to Rhinos.

 

l A ranch in Laikipia in Kenya has a
ilarge concentration of rhinos together
iwrth some 250 elephant, leopard, lion,
(Cheetah and a variety of antelope. Up
- 0 now the manager of the ranch has
undertaken to protect this valuable
enclave of wildlife, paying for the
guards from ranch maintenance funds.
Unfortunately drought and the pre-
vailing depressed economy has made it

. impossible to ﬁnance this operation”

;and the guards must be withdrawn.
‘, Somalis in the neighbourhood have
‘ made forays into the ranch already and
;rhino losses can be anticipated in the
ifuture.

I.U.C.N. (International Union for
the Conservation of Nature) are un-
able to offer any ﬁnancial assistance.
Any reader who is able to ofTer a
donation, however large or small,

should send this to wwr-KENYA,”

; LAIKIPIA PROJECT, Box 2460.},

Nairobi, where it will be most welcome.
WWF-Kenya has
£1,000 to the salaries for the guards
but more is needed. This is a practical
way in which all can help in protecting
a viable herd of rhino and other wild-
life too.

It is ironical that because Kenya
has been prepared to spend money to
protect its wildlife and has made every
effort to do so in spite of heavy
. demands on the National purse for

famine relief, development of social
services and restoring environmental
, damage, the international organisa-
‘, tions prefer to spend money in countries
where civil wars brought about by the
icountries themselves have occurred;
Lwhere wrong policies have lead to
"geconomic disasters; and ignoring wild-
Zlife has led to wildlife destruction.

 

Destruction of Rhino Horn.

Although the trade in rhino horn
has now been banned under the Con-
vention of International Trade in

 

WW‘V' 21:? ‘
> ' .1 .ur'uv‘l. <.u.,.m. .

"C ,
., Quasi,

ndangered Species (C.l.T.E.S.) the
CITES Conference in Delhi was un-
able to agree to the destruction of all
rhino horn conﬁscated but agrees to
“stock-pile” it. The Kenya Govern-
ment was one' of the countries which
refused to agree to the destruction of
horn in spite of President Moi’s appeal
to stamp out all trade in horn and give
the rhino full protection. What the
object of storing rhino horn can be, if it
is not to sell it at a later date, it is
difﬁcult to see. The Kenya Rhino
Action Group support the destruction
of all horn.

Shipment of Giraffe.

The hunting and capture of wild
animals in Kenya is prohibited. Re-
cently however, ,thLI_,)LQuIlg_BOthsChiLd
giraﬁggpro‘bajéyﬂ‘thggrarest .of all sub-
$2§9§s (ﬂiglra .c....\~t<:re..shipp6d,-by the

 

 

M

Chipperﬁeld organisation to Q’ortugalﬁ

ItTismﬁndEFstOOd that the ov‘érnment
Wt aided by the gthEeTﬁEId
organisation has been engaged in the
capture of animals for West Africa.
The consignment includes a cheetah
from the Animal Orphanage. It has
been the practice of government to pay
trappers who capture for the govern-

, ment with a quid pro quo capture

permit. The World Wildlife Fund
helped ﬁnance the capture unit; it was
understood at the time that the Capture
Unit was involved in a priority pro—
gramme to save the rhino by capture

and translocation. .
Ellis T. Monks, WWF—Kenya.

 

 

'“~~N_ \
.._\

Kenya Shipment of Ivory. “T

 

A further large shipment of ivory
has been made by the Kenya Govern-
ment, this time to the Federal Republic

of the ivory took place as is required

3/4432“

already donated\:f Germany. Again no public auction

,..-—~' /
”Ellisql» Monks, WWF—Kenya‘f

\

Atlantic Harp Seal.

There has been considerable con-
troversy over the hunting of the
Atlantic Harp Seal during the last
year or so. It is perhaps of interest to
readers, therefore, to know the views
of the World Wildlife. Fund—Canada
which correspond to those of WWF
International:

“The annual hunt for the western
Atlantic Harp Seal off the east coast
of Canada has become the focus of
widespread, often bitter, public and
scientiﬁc discussion. . . Large sums of
money and considerable human talent
are being devoted to protest-activities,
or public relations-type defences of
government data, while much needed
research on the animal itself remains
in need of funding. . .”

 

_ ,,\,,€¥;.rt—n. . 513?. .. ."",1-.‘ .. , ...... a . _ _ 3,. ,.u~,~ ...--_ tau-v.)
A, v, at; .vn .;- .. .w- “x a “-3 .s s L! A. . A .

Eli,
LL 3

\ familiar.

A Grey seal.

WW'F (Canada) have taken the follow-
ing position on the hunt:
WWF (Canada) is not opposed to
the hunting of seals PROVIDING
a) that the best population data
available indicate that the total
allowable catch does not en-
danger the herd; that is, that
the number of animals taken
does not exceed the herd’s
potential for natural increase.
b) that the entire seal be utilised
as completely and non-waste-
fullyas possible, i.e. pelt, carcass,
blubber and oil.
that if the seals are killed, they
are killed as ‘humanely’ (i.e.
as quickly and painlessly) as
possible.

There will continue to be controversy
as to the justiﬁcation for using
sealskins for items of clothing for
wealthy women, and what constitutes
“humane” killing. How humanely a
job is done often depends on who is
doing it; an animal riddled with bullets
by wildlife authorities is something
with which we in Kenya are only too

 

Status of other Seals. i \\

 

,The Hooded Seal Crystoplzo‘ra

l,’ r’fszata is also taken on quota but
little is known of it. The Carribean

monk seal Monachus trOpicalis is now
probably extinct; the Hawaiian Monk
Seal and the Mediterranean Monk
Seal Monachus monachus are/both

en angered- //

Giant Panda Collared.

Scientists in China have been
successful in applying a radio collar to
a panda in the wild. The animal, re-
leased back into the wild, should
provide interesting and valuable in-
formation on its movements.

\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\“‘“

 

 

\\

\\\‘

\\\ \

\\\\\\\\

 




excellent condition and still it ell equip-

ped with sheets, soap and electricity——

luxuries in Kampala hotels.
The occasional loss of a Bright’s
gazelle is perhaps not so important to

the ecology of the Park, but the use of

machine guns to keep the following
Park rangers and survey aircraft at
bay—as recently happened—is serious.
Even more grave is the massacre of an
elephant family, at which action Park
rangers recently caught the Sudanese
troops red-handed. The only solution
appears to be create an understanding
and even friendship between the
rangers and troops, which has proved
to keep poaching at a minimum in the

 

 

DAM TO AFFECT SELOUS

RESERVE

Tanzania is planning to build a vast
new dam on the ﬁﬂi‘mRiver to pro-
,duce hydro-electridpower. An’environ-
mental impact study has been commis-
gsioned in order to avoid ecological
blunders made by other dam construc-
tion projects in Africa, prior to the

ommencement of building in 1982.

The dam is likely to affect the
enormous Selous‘Ggame Reserve, which
lies within the Rufiji b‘aiﬁﬁTA‘nestimated
90,000 elephants, 20,000 hippos and
masses of other wildlife, including
rhino and leopards, occur in this rela-
tively undeveloped wildlife sanctuary.

Effects upon wildlife tend to be
complex and difficult to predict, often
taking place some time after the darn
has ﬁlled. One example which springs
to mind is the lechwe in Zambia, whose
future is currently causing concern to
conservationists. This gregarious ante-

 

lope is well adapted to life on floodplain.
but alteration of the natural ﬁood
cycle of the Kafue River by the con-
struction of dams in the 1970s has
disturbed their complex mating ritual,
which only occurs on speciﬁc ‘lek’
grounds.

 

TRAG?

J. a nzania_is__,establishi118-3,-..Bh1139
AcuomGroumnd the Societv lS await-
f" . . '. .
mg details of this venture, with a \’16W

to offering financial support.

 

 

 

 

 

 

ZAMBIA—~ELEPHANTS
MASSACRED.

 

International groups engaged‘tn

illicit ivory trade continue to massacre
elephants in Zambia’s Luangwa Valley
National Park, one of the few remaining
elephant strongholds on the African

continent. Early in April 300 were

reported to have been poached by a

"'55:, l well—organised group, despite the efforts
\of Park Guards and Police.

 

ITIPORIANL-vn-“TLDLIFE TRADE
CONFERENCE

At one of the largest conservation
meetings ever held, 69 member nations
of CITES (Convention on International
Trade in Endangered Species of Wild
Fauna and Flora) recently agreed to
enforce new controls on wildlife trade.

One of the major achievements was
the overwhelming support of both
Third World (particularly African) and
industrialised countries to effectively
ban any trade in Sperm, Sci and Fin
whales. Last year about 1300 Sperm,
200 Fin and 150 Sei were butchered.
This CITES decision should pressurise
the International Whaling Commission
into implementing its own recommenda—
tions to cease whaling in these three
species.

An estimated million parrots are
taken from the wild each year to meet
the demands of the pet trade. From
6th June, 1981, the entire parrot

 

family, barring three exceptions, will
be legally protected from trade. This
means that before purchasing a parrot,
an EAWLS member must satisfy him-
elf that it has not been taken from the
wild. In addition to animals, many
plants have also been added to Ap-
pendix I of Endangered Species in
which all trade is banned.

The physical enforcement of this
Convention is the toughest part. New
control measures such as ‘forgery-
proof’ standard permit forms and a
committee to check the annual trade
statistics of member nations for viola-
tions of the Convention were adopted.
Of speciﬁc interest to East Africa was
the mention of a new system of marking
legal ivory to distinguish it from poached
and illegal ivory, although no details
were given in the IUCN press release.

Guidelines for the ranching of
Green turtles and other endangered
species of marine turtles, lizards and
crocodiles were developed. Ifa success-
ful marking system to distinguish
between ‘ranched’ and wild individuals
is developed, ranching could become
an important solution to the problem
of the survival of some threatened
species.

The severe plight of all African and
Asian rhinos received special attention
and the conference took the unpre-
cedented step of sending an appeal to
all non-members of CITES to stop the
trade in that country.

 

Safari Tours from Nairobi.
0 Safari and Beach Holidays.
O Air-inclusive weekly departures from

North America and European Gateways.

45 O Clubs,Associations

and Incentive Group Tours

ft 0 Self—Drive Safaris with AVIS

t1 0 Special Interline/Travel industry
-- Staff. and Diplomatic rates.

0 Camping Safaris

 

 

{ “~64 'minugA' '9 ‘ '3. ,-,~._.:. “in...” “J i;-"- .. 2. . '-.,‘ ’3..{.»_-.<,‘ "
5.”: >
v s
a

. a;

"V: ‘. . #9561}, .. .f‘ée.;,,:»x.. .‘wwl‘m

sHp

,1 :1; gay“,- .1“. ﬁg.’ “1.: . in: . ’ 1“. 4.31,;- ‘-
.1 . *a sea...) .|9?«"tu;. -_ 2‘" . ‘52 .. w dr- ?‘

For immediate quotations/confirmations

European Sales/Reservations:

623 Grand Buildings, Trafalgar Square. London,
WC2N 5HN. Tel: 01-930 1895. Telex: 262972

North American/Sales Reservations:

200 Park Avenue. 264 East Mezz., Pan Am Building,
New York. NY. 10068. Tel: (212) 986 2666.

(800) 223 6046. Telex: 127019.

World Headquarters: Norfolk Hotel. Cottage 10
PO. Box 42291 Nairobi Tel: 337392 Telex: 22292

Mombasa Branch

PO. Box 99382. Mombasa Kenya

Telex: 21126 Reservations Avis Mombasa Office

Telephone 23048/20465

‘, 1h : 'n .3; ‘,,._..._-‘ ‘19:“: v, ."u
r " 12:». *rlzﬁﬁqa

t _ ‘ - ,1. V ’-""' '1‘: '1" ‘ ’ ‘ «'1 - .’-,.,.- j.""-'v T'f'" "“2 '1'- ‘ ' .‘77 "“5" ’ T
-. ,- . it. ,
g (
I f ‘ ‘
5. 4-. . x I
- r .7 u -: i r ‘0 ~ ,. H c

 

 

 




.p‘
'2.
l D
IQL'

Ill
I‘ k
I
I .‘
y?. ‘
or , e-
‘y‘ ‘- ‘
.~\ >...

w

9’

WWW .2 muse-19 x -
. .3 y .. 3.1 :9: _ ' .‘ .;
, ‘ ‘9' IV “I“ _ c. '
. ~ , is g 31/.

"A

-'\ . f": _ ‘ r" . i .
'4' }. I " J i ‘

. . . . w

r ' 9% ’9. R?
'4 ‘ Vt. ‘.‘. -

. .

x .

;,.‘ ..
a» ﬂaw “

3‘ ,g‘
arr-is" . ._
ﬁfe“

r: Ii NF: " ‘3 * u,”
-....... . i .~ -$‘}§3-.-1a£¥l%s er .
These two young lions, photographed in
millions of dollars of potential income.

 

AMBOSELI NATIONAL PARK

Lake Amboseli currently aﬁords the
unusual and spectacular sight of ac-
tually being a lake! Although little
game is to be seen onthe plains, enough
seems to have remained in the Park to
feed the numerous lions which have
been seen there in large prides recently.

In fact the “King of the beasts” has
proved to be the leading tourist attrac-
tion in Amboseli. Drs. David Western
and Wes Henry (both associated with
this Society) have estimated that every
lion in Amboseli is worth $515,000 a
year 'in terms of tourist revenue. The
expense of constructing the new (but
not yet completed) system of all-weather
roads must pale into insigniﬁcance at
the lifetime money earning capacity of
$7.5 million for each lion in Amboseli!

 

 

MASAI MARA NATIONALRESERVE

Despite many off-the-road tracks
being impassable to even four wheel drive
vehicles in the Masai Mara, and the
flourishing green and dense vegetation
due to the rains, visitors to Keekorok
Lodge have not been disappointed by
a lack of game viewing. A female rhino
and her baby are regularly seen by
guests and a leopard and hippo took
up residence in the Lodge grounds in
April.

The bridge over the Mara river on
the route from Keekorok to the Mara
Serena was damaged by ﬂoods in April
but it is now back to normal use.

 

The mother rhino and her baby near
Keckorok in the .r’llasai r’tlara National
Reserve.

20

;.;. ‘ _._.‘ ._._._. . 1.}: '3. _ _
:1. ‘: -- ‘5 .. g:-'
I I I I I ‘
HI, .' '1'? r
fr." ~ .. r; Rik "
~ » we .
' .f . ‘W" * ' '
A. k t ””45. i -

ms; " ~

. . as .» _ ‘
.: w. .t_algsﬁwmsa.w~aug.z A. .-. —...3..\-._=;...eku- .. ....... “55‘s- .5... .n—‘m‘a. .. -. .

 

 

 

 

 

MORE AID ARRIVES

Ex—Game Warden of Queen Eliza-
beth National Park (now Ruwenzori).
Frank Poppleton, arrived in Uganda

 

.1 in early May to act as Chief Techical
\Advisor to the UNDP Anti—poaching

iProject. In collaboration with UNDT’,
‘EEC‘has supplied the ten Land-Rovers
mentioned in the last issue of SH’A RA.
More vehicles and spares will be pro-
vided by EEC with the remaining aid
money. WWF are supplying cut price
ex-British Army uniforms to the 550
Game Department and National Park
Rangers. New clothes and boots boost
morale tremendously for these men
who earn only as much as they would
if they were farming, despite the per-
sonal dangers they risk in defending
Uganda‘s wildlife.

3 m -) an 4.;._
e. .% z ‘ ,
‘5‘ .I. ‘ i "9 \ , V

Snaipomt

'r—r-v -—v,~w--—tr~v—.~ ..‘_..,,. -

3",...“ ,- .,.‘,___,..m‘ .. -...-r.....A. .. ‘CM"“:;V i-‘v—V’h ."" 'W‘ -. - ,. www- "v3
.‘_ t a... A-

A aux—9'4..." '11»...ch‘1 5-... .- L. so“; an"... . . we, .. _

 

David Keith Jones

WILDLIFE CLL'BS OF vol—ism

WCU are planning a Wildlife
Awareness W'eek in Kampala in June.
This will include a sponsored walk and
plays featuring prominent Ugandan
actors. which will not only raise money
for WCU but will also prove popular
entertainment.

 

 

 

KIDEPO VALLEY NATIONAL
PARK

The 14.000 km2 Kidepo Valley
National Park was surveyed from the
air at the onset of the April-September
rainy season to estimate Black rhino
and elephant populations. A total
count and sample count were carried
out by UNDP and IUCN staff in
conjunction with the Park Warden.
but the ﬁnal ﬁgures are not yet avail-
able.

Black rhino and elephant were
counted as these have been subject to.
more poaching than other species. due
to the astronomically high price paid
for horn and ivory on the international
black market. Sadly, no rhinos were
seen at all during the survey. although
they may have been too well camou-
ﬂaged to be visible. However there
were never many rhinos in Kidepo—
only about 40-50 a few years ago.

The number of elephant carcasses
seen from the air shocked the aerial
surveying team. particularly the rela-
tively large number of elephants that
had died in the last six months. How-
ever, a total of 300 living elephants
were seen, of which 200 constituted one
herd. Again. the elephant population
has always been low--~about 6.00 ten
years agow—and much lower than the
other two National Parks. Compared
to Kabalega Falls and Ruwenzori, a
50 ‘34", elephant survival rate is a remark
able achievement by the elephants and
staff of Kidepo Valley.

Other large mammal species were
so plentiful that there was no need to
count them. 'Bright's gazelle, zebra,

 

515'” {my-«5‘9“

 




 

 

 

 

. g. . _
-,; , ‘ . .1 . : ‘f
- a . s , .. , .
~ ' ‘. , . ,. t v
. . ) u
. ‘ ., .
. via.“ ' v ‘
v ;
, ‘ 499 \ \
.. 7
I
‘ 9
. .

752.31 .mnﬂg- &‘ _. ﬂ .‘ ,0...

Two llamas' In the pasture with a flock of sheep on the ranch of John and Betty Lye In Wyoming. Note: the llamas and the sheep keep to themselves,
probably because they were not socialized to each other. Coyotes soon took advantage of this situation and, after initial success in avoiding the sheep,
again began to prey on them. Raising llamas and sheep together from an early age ought to overcome this problem (see Betty lye’ 5 second letter In the
“Predator Forum” on this page). Photo: Pam George. ‘ “ ’

The following news item appeared in
the Atlanta Constitution Slune 1980. The
use of llamas as prey protectors calls for
more investigation.

MORTON, Wyoming (AP) —- Some of
their fellow wool growers laughed when
john and Betty Lye brought In the llamas.
But after losing 300 to 400 sheep to
coyotes over the past 25 years they were
getting desperate.

Lye borrowed three of the South
American beasts of burden this year to

- guard the flock on his central Wyoming '

ranch.

And so far he hasn' I lost a single sheep,
and he thinks his luck will continue -- as
long as the llamas stay curious. ' '

“They are curious about every bit of
movement,’ ’Lye said in a recent inter-
view.‘ A ‘When they see something, they
run over to Check it out. .

Wth their keen eyesight, the llamas are
particularly adept at spotting coyotes at

daybreak, when the pack animals often

attack, he said. And so far the large
animals have not had to do anything but '

spit to scare away coyotes. “

, “CoyOtes are basically cowards and are -
going to run away from anything,”

said.

He borrowed the llamas from Betty
Holstein of Dubois, who uses them as
exotic pack animals and plans to study the
experiment this summer to see if it works
on a long- term basis. Lye believes he Is the
first sheep rancher in Wyoming to'use

llamas to keep coyotes at bay,_’, .

9

 

. i.

The news story about the. llamas serv-I
ing as livestock guards caught our atten-
Wtion, so we followed up on the Original
Story. Betty Lye Sent 3 reply, which She
authorized us to publish.-

We think the letter explains In a matter- ‘_

 

Lye ..

, Llamas—Are They Successful Guards?

of—fact way What ranchers are up against.
it is neither the strident anti-predator
rhetoric nor the pro-predator sentiment,
according to which coyotes are poor,
misunderstood creatures.

instead, we must pin our hopes on
reasonable people on all sides of the

issues, who recognize that ranchers are '

entitled to make a living and that ways
must be found to protect their interests,

along with those of the wild creatures

who also haVe a place in nature, all of
whom can coexist when we all work
together. _'

Livestock guarding dogs, taste aversion,
goOd management of flocks and land,

cooperation—and perhaps even llamas— .

can cut predator losses greatly, leaving
the predator to liVe mainly on natLIral

food, while preventing him from con-_ -'

u

Centrating on livestock.

Betty Lye’ 5 reply to our Question about
the success of their llama experiment

follows under “Tho PmAmﬁr p.-. ....

i

I

t t

’ " WJWW—va -‘

" ”Add“”ir/A~Nb"‘wr " MMMMq-I‘VJM ".x‘ -

 




Concerted Action Needed

Clearly, what is needed is concerted
action that can ultimately be translated
into action in the political arena. Let
conservation organizations pool their
funds to put on radio and television
programs to solicit funds from every-
where. Use mass mailing techniques to
reach millions.

The environmental message is too
important to vie with other news and
programs for an occasional spot on
commercial television. A massive educa-
tional and fund-raising campaign of
national scope is needed.

In short, environmental organizations
need to rethink their charters drastically;
they need to reorganize; and they need to
become politically active on a national
scale with one voice. The groundwork has
already been done, but some unifying
elfort has to be made.

The average American voter, and not
just the college-educated environmen-
talist, needs to be informed about living
within his means. We must find‘common
ground with more people. A strong
national defense is important, and so is a
healthy economy, but population control,
conservation, clean air, and wilderness
preservation are equally important.

Environmentalists must take the offen-
sive, accentuate the positive in their ideas,
help to solve problems. We must change
our image of being against progress,

against this dam or that factory or super-’

highway. We must redefine national
priorities, and the first step is a massive
public education campaign funded by
those who share this common philos-
ophy. We must enter the political arena,
and we must unite!

-Erich Klinghammer, Editor

/ The Predator Foumr

31 October 1980

Dear Mrs. Smith, Managing Editor:

I am enclosing an updated article since
the first ones were written by the Riverton
Ranger, and written by Pam George, on
the llamas. We have had so manyinquiries
about buying llamas and how they are

'working; I have a file just for them. It

seems to have hit all the news wires and,
even though we have not had the best of
experience yet, we are trying to show the
people that wool growers are willing to
“try anything to keep from losing lambs.”
I keep a day-to-day record of the farm,
when the lambs were born, went to
pasture, when we cut hay, etc. So, I can
tell you exactly how many sheep we lose
to predators every year. They are ii'zcrea
ing every year...we still lose many lami.-_
and not only lambs but grown ewes.
With the llamas the first month, we did
not lose any. After that we had twelve
lambs killed, four badly mutilated, two

ewes killed. We do not have a problem‘

with dogs, so no one can say we have dog

kills. Our neighbors are warned that a dog

will be chased home with buckshot the
first time we see it, and then it will be

killed.

We have not had to kill any neighbors’ .

dogs yet, and ours is a sheep working dog,
a border collie, and ,he loves the sheep.
We sell our bum lambs to people, and
every time I take a lamb out of the corral
and carry it to their cars, our dog whines
like he is being hurt. He is our eyes in the
pastures, as he leads us right up to a hurt
or killed sheep. I repeat, we have no dog
problem, only coyotes.

We also trapped two fox in our pasture
this year. They do kill baby lambs, but they

 

 

Woif for national mammal

 

 

aren’t nearly so devastating to our live-
Iihood as the coyotes.

. We have tried to keep up with the
stories that come out and let people know
that the llamas have not kept all the kill
down. We do believe they have helped,
and we know they have chased coyotes,
from our. neighbors’ own seeing expe-
rience, but they do not kill them—and the
coyotes are just smart enough to get
around them and come back for the kill.

I really don’t know what we would do
without the government trapper and
plane. They have taken a total of 60+
coyotes in a five-mile radius of us this
year. My husband is on the predator
board for the county, and he knows many
coyotes are taken .every year by the
trappers, besides the bounty and fur
trappers in the winter months, and we still
have a vast supply of coyotes bothering
us. .

I would appreciate having a copy of the
paper when you print the article. Thank

you. I read the complimentary copy you

sent,,and it was interesting.

Sincerely,
Betty L. Lye

I

 

5A recent letter from Betty Lye updates
her report. Excerpts from that letter-

f l .

O’OW TOlune 1981,
We have a baby llama this year that we

have raised with our baby sheep, and so

far this year we have not had a loss to

‘coyotes. We turned out to pasture the

same time as last year, but the baby llama
stays right with the Sheep. '
We do not know whether he is the

cause of our wonderful luck this year, or'

whether there are less coyotes. The

trapper. has been out only once that I -

know of. Our neighbor about a half-mile

away had a coyote kill. North of Pavillion,
they have also had some coyote kill about
six miles from us....We love our little
llama, and his name is Mumford; he isten
months old now.

Sincerely,
Betty L. Lye

Letters Policy -

The Predator welcomes letters which
are l”!€iu.¢u for publication in the
Predator Forum. Correspondence should
be legible (preferably typed), short, and
to the point. Letters of more than 250
words may be condensed. The writer's
name must be included. Editorial replies
may, on occasion, be printed with the
letter. Weregret that we cannot return
letters which are not published.

Letters intended for publication
should be addressed to: Predator
Forum, North American Wildlife Park
Foundation, Battle Ground, IN 47920,
USA.

 

Do you have a question
about how to carefor
injured wildlife?

You may contact
LIFELINE FOR WILDLIFE, INC.
Wildlife Rehabilitation Center,

' RD 104" .

Ulster Heights Rd. '

Ellenville, New York 12428
(914) 647-5344

 

 

 

 




5
\

TOXICOLOGY

CC :5 Of

Archiv fur Toxikologie

O ,,- .

Edited on behalf of the
Deutsche Pharmakologische Gesellschaft
and the

Deutsche Gesellschaft fiir Rechtsmedizin

Official organ of the
European Society of Toxicology

 

Archives of Toxicology accepts Papers
which advance the science of toxicology
by studies from any relevant discipline.
These studies include mechanisms of
toxicology, defined effects in man and
new methods of treatment, new methods
of analysis, experimental studies of che-
micals which may arise during medical
treatment, at work, or in the general

. environment and forensic toxicology.

The journal publishes:

1. Review articles

2. Original Investigations

3. Short Communications

4. Letters to the Editors

The authors of Short Communications
and of Letters and Notes will be asked
to have the accepted manuscript typed
for publication, and it will be published

one or two month after receipt of the final
version.

Please address

manuscripts in duplicate to:
Editorial Office

”Archives of Toxicology"
Priv.-Doz. Dr. H. Frohberg
Hauptleitung Medizin

E. Merck

Postfach 4119

D-6100 Darmstadt

Federal Republic of Germany

0

.gb .
g} I

Subscription Information

Volumes 47 and 48 (4 issues each) will appear
in 1981. The price of each volume is DM 174.00
or S 103.00. Prices for back-volumes are avail-
able on request. In addition, we also offer
microform editions in 16 mm and 35 mm
microfilm and microfiche. Correspondence
concerning subscriptions should be addressed
to the publisher.

Changes of Address: Allow six weeks for all
changes to become effective. All communica-
tions should include both old and new addres-
ses (with Zip Codes) and should be accom-
panied by a mailing label from a recent issue.

North America. Annual subscription rate:
5 216.00 including postage and handling. Sub-
scriptions are entered with prepayment only.
Orders should be addressed to: Springer-Ver-
lag New York Inc, Service Center Secaucus,
44 Hartz Way, Secaucus, N.J. 07094, USA,
Tel. (201) 348-40 33, Telex 00-23 125 994.

Japan. Annual subscription rate: DM 383.60
including postage (surface airmail lifted) and
handling. Orders can either be placed with
your bookdealer or sent directly to: Springer-
Verlag, Heidelberger Platz 3, D-1000 Berlin 33,
Tel. (030) 8207-1, Telex 01-83 319.

All Other Countries. Annual subscription rate:
DM 348.00, plus postage and handling. Orders
can either be placed With your bookdealer
0r sent directly to: Springer-Verlag, Heidel-
berger Platz 3, 0-1000 Berlin 33, Tel. (030)
8207-1, Telex 01-83319.

Offices

Springer-Verlag, Heidelberger Platz 3,

D-1000 Berlin 33, Tel. (030) 82 07-1,

Telex 01—83 319.

Springer-Verlag, Journal Production
Department, Postfach 105 280,

D-6900 Heidelberg 1, Tel. (06221) 487-331,
Telex 04-61 690

Springer-Verlag New York Inc.,

175 Fifth Avenue, New York, NY. 10010,

USA, Tel. (212) 477—8200, Telex 00—232 322
Responsible for Advertisements:

L. Siege), Kurfurstendamm 237,

D-1000 Berlin 15, Tel. (030) 882 10 31,

Telex 01-85411

Printed in Germany

by Car) Ritter-GmbH 8i Co.KG., Wiesbaden

‘1" Springer-Verlag GmbH 8i Co KG,

Berlin Heidelberg 1981

'2

W; t'
“‘9", Springer

¢ .
‘1; International

Das Heftenthalt eine Beilage des Springer-Verlages Berlin Heidelberg New York

in )

Naive-of
TOXICOLOGY
(c! Springer-Veda}: I‘m)

 

Arch 'l'oxrcol (l98l) 47: 77-99

 

Review Article

Signiﬁcance of the LDso-Test
for the Toxicological Evaluation of Chemical Substances

G. Zbinden and M. Flury-Roversi

Institute of Toxicology. Swiss Federal Institute of Technology and the University of Zurich.
Schorenstrasse lo, CIT-8603 Schwcrzenbach, Switzerland

Abstract. The LBW-test was developed in 1927 for the biological
standardization of dangerous drugs. Then it was incorporated into the
routine toxicological protocol of other classes of chemical compounds and is
now part of practically all governmental guidelines which regulate
toxicological testing of chemicals. _ .

For scientific, economic, and ethical reasons it is necessary to
periodically reassess all toxicological test procedures, including the
LDSU-test. Tests which are not optimal or that have become obsolete because
of new scientific knowledge, must be changed or eliminated. .

The review of the LDSU-test shows that the precision of the procedure is
dependent on the number of animals used. But even with large numbers of
animals there are considerable variations of the test results, because the
numerical value of the LDSO is inﬂuenced by many factors, such as animal
species and strain, age and sex, diet, food deprivation prior to dosing,
temperature. caging, season, experimental procedures, etc. Thus, the LDSO
value cannot be regarded as a biological constant. .

Through standardization of the test animals and the experimental
conditions the variability of the LD50 determinations can be reduced but
never fully eliminated.

There are several tests with which an approximate LD50 can be
determined. These methods use fewer animals than the classical LDsu-test,
but their precision and reproducibility are sufficient for most purposes of
acute toxicity testing. . . _

Through incorporation of physiological, hematological,»biochemical.
pathological, and histopathological investigations in the Simplified test
procedures with small numbers of animals, it is pOSSibIe to markedly increase
the informational content of the results with regard to the IOXicological
spectrum and the target organs of toxicity. Such studies have already
replaced the LDsu-test in large animals. such as dogs and monkeys. It is also
desirable to replace the LDSU in rodents with such a procedure. .

With pharmacologically inert compounds that have no acute effects With

()340-5761/8l/()()47/()()77/$ (Mot)

4w.
72',
u. 3
‘ 2r

 




I

‘
£§CM~M V‘- at .‘-~. g .o. 1
4

. ~A-‘ A‘

G. Zbinden and M. Flury-Roversi

single administration the classical LDso-test does not provide relevant
toxicological results.

For the prediction of the human lethal dose and for the prediction of the
symptomatology of poisoning after acute overdosing in man the LDm-test is
of limited usefulness. An acute toxicity test with small numbers of animals
combined with comprehensive studies of physiological functions, biochem-
ical and histopathological examinations often provides more important
information for emergency physicians and poison control centers.

For the selection of doses to be used in subacute and chronic toxicity
experiments the LDSO-test does not provide consistent and reliable results. A
simple pilot experiment with few animals but repeated dosing gives more
useful information.

For the evaluation of special risks for the human newborn and infant the
LDSo-test is poorly suited.

For the appraisal of pharmacokinetic behavior and bioavailability the
LDWIest gives only semi-quantitative, often ambiguous information.

In all cases where the acute toxicity testing is mainly concerned with the
evaluation of toxicological potential of the test substances, the symptoma-
tology following acute overdosing, and the knowledge of target organs of
toxicity, the classical LDSO-test should be replaced by a more comprehensive
short term test that can be done with small numbers of animals. The classical
LDso-test should only be permitted in those rare instances where a high
precision of the LDSO determination is indispensable.

Key words: LDsO-test — Acute toxicity

1. General Remarks

Health hazards created by chemical substances have become of great concern to
the public. The necessity of a better control of chemicals in the human
environment is now generally recognized. New laws have been passed in many
countries stipulating directions regarding manufacture, distribution and decon-
tamination of poisons. In many instances they also regulate the experimental
toxicological testing of chemicals.

Based on scientiﬁc experience of the last few decades the toxicological
testing requirements have been markedly expanded. They now not only include
experiments on the effects of single and repeated administrations of the test
substances in several animal species, but also demand special investigations of
the effects on fertility of male and female animals, and on embryonic, peri- and
postnatal development of newborn animals-following treatment of mothers. In
addition, tests for the discovery of mutagenicand carcinogenic effects, and
experiments on absorption, distribution, metabolism, and excretion of chemicals
are required.

Originally, toxicological studies were done mostly with new drugs,
pesticides, and food additives. The recognition that the human environment
contains many additional, potentially hazardous chemicals has led to a gigantic

®

Significance of LDw-Test 79

expansion of the toxicological testing program. It now also includes many
industrial chemicals, pollutants in water, air, and soil, and an enormous number
of natural compounds, such as mycotoxins, toxins produced by plants and
venomous animals, as well as many compopents of our daily diet and their
derivatives occurring during processing, storage, and digestion.

It is not possible to indicate the exact number ofchemicals which are relevant
for human health and which should undergo toxicological testing. A cautious
estimate might put it at several thousands to be tested with high priority, and
tens of thousands that must be investigated in the future. This represents an
enormous and very costly undertaking in favor of public health. Therefore, in
the future development of toxicological procedures it is not sufficient to adopt
more and more new tests. Logistic and economic necessities dictate that the old
techniques must be revieWed periodically in order to ascertain their relevance
and efficiency. Procedures that do not satisfy modern requirements must be
changed or eliminated.

Beside these logistic and economic problems another aspect must be taken
into account: the toxicological assessment of harmful properties of chemical
substances rests predominantly on animal experiments. Although efforts are
made in several areas of toxicology, e.g.. in chemical mutagenesis. to utilize cell
cultures, microorganisms and insects, the majority of toxicological experiments
still cannot do without mammalian organisms. It is, more than ever, a matter of
scientific ethics that all toxicological tests be conducted with the smallest possible
number of animals, and that the experiments be planned in such a way that a
maximum of relevant information is gained from every animal sacrificed.
Therefore. toxicologists are obliged to continuously also in this respect review
their procedures. Experiments which do not significantly contribute to the
assessment of toxic properties of chemical substances must be changed or
abandoned. In keeping with this mandate we have decided to take a critical look
at one of the oldest of the classical toxicity experiments, the LDw-test.

2. Basic Concepts of the LDso-Test

The calculation of the median lethal dose (LD50) for the measurement of toxicity
of drugs was introduced in 1927 by J. W. Trevan. In his classical paper the
author already demonstrated that the precision of the L050 determination was
dependent on the number of animals used. He also made important suggestions
for the reduction of this number by the use of simple pilot experiments.

Trevan (1927) and his contemporaries knew that the LDSU of a drug is not a
fixed value, but that it depends on many extraneous factors. They were
particularly aware of seasonal variations. At this time, the LDSU determination
was essentially used for the biological standardization of important but very
potent drugs, notably digitalis extracts, insulin and diphtheria toxin. In order to
obtain an exact measurement of the toxicities of these agents, a comparison with
standardized reference substances was always necessary. High precision of the
determinations was essential, and this could only be achieved with large numbers
of animals.

;.
I
l
t
i
f
i
7
b
l.
i
f
l

 




. .. -.-. .4- any“. u.~‘~.- ---.u- hy».~..—.;
,

y ((0

G. Zbinden and M. Flury-Roversi

During the following 20 years the LDm-test gained wide acceptance as a
method for measuring the acute toxicity of drugs. Major efforts were made to
Improve acquisition and statistical treatment of the bioassav data. a development
which was extensively reviewed by Morrison and collaborators (1968). In this
endeavor many pharmacologists and statisticians. among them particularly
Behrens (1929). Karber (1931), Gaddum (1933), Bliss ( 1935). Miller and 'l‘ainter
(1944), Litchfield and Fertig (1961), and Litchfield and Wileoxon (1949), have
made important contributions. -

Toxicological testing has now become mandatory for many chemical
substances, including food and feed additives, pesticides and industrial
chemicals. The LDSO-test that was originally developed for drugs, was taken over
for the toxicological evaluation of all other classes of substances. The fact that
the method was designed for biological standardization of highly active

ﬁrmacologica agents, was, however, forgotten. This unfortunate develop-
menf't's clearly described in the report of an expert committee of the Association
of the British Pharmaceutical Industry (A.B.P.l. 1977). In the present paper it
wnll be shown that the LDso-test do 0t ive Optimal information on
porsonousness of ma_ny chmtﬁhfﬁt will be demonstrated that
Th}? tﬁgﬁ precision of the LDSG determination that is essential for the
standardization of dangerous drugs, is usually not required for an adequate
assessment of the acute toxic characteristics of most substances. It follows that

glevant data on the acute toxicity of chemicals can often be obtained with much
smaller numbers of animals. "‘

w

 

3. Methodology and Purpose of the LDso~Test
3.1. Methods of the L050 Determination

For the bioassay of the LD50 the test substance is administered to groups of at
least 5 (usually 8— 10, sometimes even more) male and female animals. At least 4
increasing dose levels are selected in such a way that 0— 100% of the animals will
die. The observation time is at least 1, usually 2, occasionally up to 4 weeks. The
LDSO with 95% confidence limits and slope function is determined with tables
and nomograms of Litchfield and Wileoxon (1949) or a similar procedure. For
many substances the LDso-test is conducted with oral plus one or several
parenteral routes of application. For some agents the dermal route of application
or inhalation are also used.

For most classes of chemical substances governmental regulatory agencies
demand a single dose toxicity test on at least 2 rodent and 1 non-rodent species.
For these reasons LDSO determinations used to be done not only in rats and mice,
but also in dogs and sometimes even monkeys. This deplorable waste of higher
animals is now practiced only in exceptional cases. Most regulatory agencies
accept a simplified acute toxicity test in non-rodents. For this, the test substances
are administered to animals in increasing doses spaced with an interval of 1—4
days. (‘linical signs and symptoms and behavior are carefully monitored. In such
experiments it is usually possible to determine the maximal tolerated and the

Significance of LDw—Tcst 81

minimal lethal doses. Quite often, an approximate LDSO can also be estimated. If
this experiment is carefully conducted much useful information on sympto-
matology of acute overdosing and target organs of toxicity can be gained even
with few animals. A good example is a recently published acute toxicity test with
the herbicide diquat (Cobb and Grimshaw 1979). The authors used a total of ten
monkeys. Thanks to careful clinical, pathological, and histopathological
examinations, they were able to characterize comprehensively the acute
intoxication syndrome.

For the dermal LDSO-test the most frequently used animal species is the
rabbit (at least three groups of four or more male and female animals). The test
if often also conducted in rabbits after superficial abrasion of the skin (Balazs
1970; Ellison 1979). For the determination of acute inhalation toxicity rats and
mice are the most commonly used species. The test substances are dispersed in
the atbmosphere; otherwise the general test protocol corresponds to that
described for the oral and parenteral routes of administration (Balazs 1970;
Ellison 1979).

3.2. Regulatory Requirements

The experimental details of the protocols of the LDSn-test, the required number
of animal species. group size and routes of administration vary depending on the
type of chemical substance and the country in which the agent will be registered.
Certain countries have issued detailed experimental protocols for acute toxicity
testing of drugs, food additives, pesticides, cosmetics, industrial chemicals, etc.
Other regulatory agencies have merely proposed general guidelines and
recommendations.

It is not the purpose of this paper to describe in detail the regulatory
requirements for acute toxicity testing in all countries and for all classes of
chemical substances. It should. however, be mentioned that the majority of
substances developed by the chemical industry is intended for world-wide
distribution. For this reason, it is usually necessary to conduct the toxicological
testing according to the national regulatory requirement that demands the most
comprehensive program. even though most other regulatory agencies might be
satisfied with less extensive data. In the report of the expert committee of the
British Pharmaceutical lndustry(A.B.P.1. 1977) the requirements of the Israeli
Health Authorities for acute toxicity testing of drugs are mentioned as a
particularly extravagant example. They demand LDSU-tests by the oral,
subcutaneous, and intravenous routes in mice, rats, and dogs, occasionally also
in monkeys.

3.3. Purpose of the LBW-Test

The determination of the LD5H was originally introduced as a simple means to
obtain general information on the poisonousness or the potential acute hazard of
a chemical substance. That this opinion is still widely held can be derived from

-.~ .....\r-,‘~,.-—--.,,“,‘.q W...) -v—.~¢”W- "Mmgnmg—‘ﬁ vow, ‘M“"\f“-"P ww".s‘nr row-,4 v ~ «0—,r- 'w .-M .

 




G. Zbinden and M. Flury-Roversi

the fact that the LD,” is often used as the basis for classifying of chemicals in
official lists of poisonous substances. For example. such a classification serves as
the major criterion in the Swiss federal legislation on poisonous substances
(Schweizerische Eidgenossenschaft 1969) which regulates manufacture and
commerce of chemicals and their application in the trade, industry. agriculture
forestry. education, and science (Wegmann 1969). ’

A particularly important purpose of the LDSO-test was, as pointed out in
paragraph 3, the biological standardization of a small number of dangerous
drugs that could not be analyzed with chemical methods. Today. this application
has no. practical importance, with the possible exception of vaccines and similar
biological products (A.B.P.I. 1977), or for a comparison of two closely related
chemical compounds.

We have made an effort to search regulatory guidelines on the LDw-test for
additional reasons that would justify the performance of the experiment. In most
instances, however, official guidelines do not discuss the purpose of the test It is

‘CVldcnl that the LDm-test has become part of a chem- ' a biologic-21.1-
measurement that is incu e in data sheets very much like other bits of
information. such as structural formula, solubility, melting point, etc.
lt'should be stressed at this point that a single dose toxicity test can indeed
contribute Significant biological information. The purpose of such studies will
therefore, be discussed in detail in paragraph 5. But it will also be shown that for

many chemicals the LDw-test is not the optimal procedure to assess hazards
posed by acute overdosage.

4. Reliability of the LDse-Te'st
4.]. General Remarks

The universal acceptance and application of the LDw-test would be justified if
the LDSQ were a true biological constant, and if it would provide relevant
information about the toxic potential of a chemical substance. Paragraph 4
explores the first point, the question of accuracy and reproducibility of the
LDm-fCSt.

The LD50 is indeed often looked on as a biological constant. It appears in
chemical handbooks (e.g., Merck Index) next to chemical and physical constants
and is used, as shown in paragraph 3.3., as a basis for the classification of
chemicals in official lists of poisonous substances. In reality the LDS" is far from
being a biological constant. It can vary markedly from one animal species to the
other, and within one species of laboratory animals the numerical value of the
LD50 determined experimentally is inﬂuenced by a large number of factors
Every'LDg, value must thus be regarded as a unique result of one particular
biological experiment. It is not a biological constant since the LDS‘, values
determined in various assays can differ considerably from each other.

Significance of LDm-Test

4.2. Factors that Inﬂuence the LD50

4.2.]. Animal Species. The numerical values of the LDsn determined in various
species of laboratory animals often differ considerably. As an example, the
compound 5-(N-piperidino)10,l1-dihydro-5H(a.d.)cycloheptene may be men-
tioned (Morrison et al. 1968). The oral LDSO in the male mouse was 1,160 mg/kg.
This compound would, if the mouse were to be taken as a basis, be considered
slightly toxic. In Switzerland it would be assigned to class 4 in the official list of
poisonous substances and would be freely available over the counter. ln male
rats, on the other hand, the oral toxicity is 6.6 mg/kg. This measurement would
qualify the substance as highly toxic; it would be in class 2 of the official list and
could only be purchased with a special written permit.

4.2.2. Age ofthe AnimaLi. The sensitivity of the animals against the toxic effects
of chemicals changes in the course of their life (Zbinden 1973). Sometimes the
changes are quite remarkable, particularly if one compares very young animals
with adult ones. For example, the oral LDSO of digitoxin is 0.1 mg/kg in the 7-day
old rat, in the young adult rat, however, 76 mg/kg (female) and 56 mg/kg (male).
For the vasoconstrictor drug amidephrine mesylate the ratio is reversed. ln
newborn rats the compound is practically inert after oral administration (LDSU
3,000 mg/kg), whereas it is quite toxic for 80- 100 days old rats (LD50 36 mg/kg
for females and 51 mg/kg for males) (Goldenthal 1971). Many similar examples
are listed in the monograph of Morrison et al. (1968).

4.2.3. Weight ofAni'mals. The body weight can inﬂuence the result of the LDso-
test. Since the weight depends on the age it is often not possible to determine
which of the two must be considered the decisive factor. However, with the drug
isoproterenol Balazs et al. (1972) could clearly demonstrate that the body weight
can affect the outcome of a LDSU-test. In rats weighing 200 g the 1.050 was
approximately 800 mg/kg, but in 600 g animals it was only 0.3 mg/kg. After a
weight reduction of the heavy rats down to 400 g the LDSO was again comparable

to that of the 200 g animals.

4.2.4. Sex of Animals. The numerical value of the LD50 quite often differs
between male and female animals. Usually, the differences are not remarkable,
but they can occasionally be substantial. For example, the oral LDSO of the
tranquilizer trifluperidol is 140 mg/kg (95% confidence limits 101 - 193 mg/kg) in
female rats, whereas in the male 3 value of 360 mgfkg (308-421 mg/kg) was
found (Goldenthal 1971).

4.2.5. Genetic Inﬂuences. It is a general experience that various strains of
animals respond differently to the toxic effects of chemical substances. This is in
part due to metabolic differences. and thus affects the outcome of the LDSn-test.
An extreme example was reported by Dieke and Richter (1945). In the Hopkins
strain of rats they found an i.p. LDSU for thiourea of 4 i 0.2 mg/kg, in the “wild
Norway rat", however, a LDSU value of 1,830 i 135 mg/kg. Four other rat strains
had LDSU values ranging from 44 :t 13 mg/kg to 1,340 i 230 mg/kg. During the

 




ba- ..

tenet-u u. a ‘9’ 'A

.. w A on ~Aaw‘o‘u bIQ-d‘ah “I .-.-t d‘l

G. Zbindcn and M. Flury-Roversi

acute toxicity test of histamine in mice pretreated with pertussis vaccine similar
differences were found. In one of nine strains the LDSU was 20 mgjkg and in 2
strains it was > 1,000 mg/kg. The LDSU in the remaining 6 strains ranged from
70 to 1,000 mg/kg (Brown 1962).

4.2.6. Animal Health. Spontaneous diseases may alter the sensitivity of
laboratory animals against chemical substances in an unpredictable manner. A
related factor that is also important is the composition of the bacterial ﬂora in the
gut. In a comparative inter-laboratory experiment in which eight institutions
tested ten substances, one participating laboratory erroneously used patho-
gen-free rats. LDSO values determined by this investigator were significantly
higher than those found by the other‘participants (Weil and Wright 1967).

4.2.7. Diet. The composition of the feed can affect the outcome of LDsu-tests.
An extreme example is the dependence of the acute toxicity of the pesticide
Captan from the protein content of the diet. In rats that had received a protein
deficient (3.5%) diet for 4 weeks there was a 26.3-fold increase of the acute
toxicity in comparison with rats on regular laboratory chow with a protein
content of 26% (Krijnen and Boyd 1970). In rats of the Harward strain the
change-over from a commercial diet (Purina fox chow) to a locally prepared feed
was accompanied by an almost 15-fold increase in toxicity of subcutaneously
administered thiourea (Dieke and Richter 1945). Another problem is the
contamination of the diet with insecticides. These substances can stimulate the
drug metabolizing microsomal enzymes in the liver which may lead to a
considerable reduction in acute toxicity of substances metabolized by the same
enzymes. An increase in acute toxicity is also conceivable if the metabolites

formed in the liver are more toxic than the parent compound (Conney
1967).

4.2.8. Food Deprivation. In many laboratories it is customary to starve the
animals prior to the administration of the test substances. This has a substantial
inﬂuence on the outcome of the LDSO-test. The effect shall be illustrated with an
observation made during a routine evaluation of the pesticide Mesurol
(3.5-dimethyl-4-methylmarcaptophenyl-N-methylcarbamate) dispersed in poly~
ethylene glycol 400. In rats starved for 20—24 h the toxicity was considerably
higher than in ad libitum-fed animals. [Examplez LDSU females, starved, 14,2
(12. 1 -— 16.6 mg/kg), fed ad libitum, 64.7 (55.8—75.5 mg/kg), Lorke and Thyssen,
personal communication]. Many similar examples are reported in the toxico-
logical literature. For example, the oral LDSU of the barbiturate sodium
methohexiton was 354 mg in ad libitum-fed mice. After a 4- to 6-h food

deprivation it decreased to 162 mg/kg, and after a 20-h fast it was only 66 mg/kg
(Quinton and Reinert 1968).

4.2.9. Method ofAdministration. The results of the LDSU-test can be affected by
various experimental circumstances and factors that have an inﬂuence on the
absorption rate from the gastrointestinal tract. They include crystal size (if the
substance is administered as powder or suspension), the solvent, the volume of

Significance of LDm-Test 85

application, and the concentration of a solution. When the acute oral toxicity of
sodium pentobarbital, potassium cyanide. procaine hydrochloride, and sodium
ﬂoride was tested, it was found that the LDSU of the more concentrated solutions
(volume 1% of body weight) was higher than that of the weaker solution
(volume 5% of body weight) (Ferguson 1962). With Mesurol which has been
already mentioned in paragraph 4.2.7. the volume of application also affected
the numerical value of the LD5”. For example: with 0.25 nil/100 g body weight
the oral LDSU in ad libitum-l'ed rats was 75.7 (64.4—89.9) mg/kg. With 1 ml/100 g
body weight it was 41.3 (32.2—48.9) mg/kg (Lorke and Thyssen, personal
communication).

When feed is taken away from small laboratory rodents they begin to eat
their fecal pellets. This is not possible in cages with grid ﬂoors. This means that
the gastric content in starved rats differs depending on the housing condition.
The degree of gastric filling affects gastric emptying time and absorption rate.
Thus, the differences in cage design may also affect the outcome of a LDSU-test in
starved animals.

For the determination of the intravenous LDSO, the speed of injection can be
of importance. This is particularly true for a compound with a rapid and
complete distribution in the body. With fast injection the LDSO of such a
compound will be lower than with slow injection.

4.2.10. Ambient Temperature. The effects of ambient temperature on the
outcome of LDSU-tests have been extensively investigated (Fuhrman and
Fuhrman 1961; Weihe 1973). For many substances 3 linear relationship was
found between ambient temperature and toxicity as measured by the LDSO-test.
One group of compounds that is more toxic at higher temperature are the
amphetamines. Other substances have the highest LD50 at a temperature a few
degrees above room temperature. Their toxicity increases both with increasing
and decreasing ambient temperature.

4.2.11. Housing Conditions of the Animals. The behavior of small rodents and
their sensitivity against the toxic effects of certain chemicals may be affected by
design and size of the cage, the type of litter used and the number of animals kept
in one cage. For example, the LDSU of isoproterenol decreased from 800 mg/kg
to 50 mg/kg as a result of isolation of the test animal for 3 months (Balazs 1972).
Similar observations were made with thiourea and tranylcypromin in rats,
whereas no inﬂuence of housing conditions could be demonstrated with several
other agents (Wiberg and Grice 1965).

4.2.12. Seasonal Variations. Variations of the L050 that were apparently related
to the season during which the tests were performed, were noted already by
Trevan (1927) the inventor of the LDSO-test. Similar findings are described in the
paper of Morrison et a1. (1968).

4.2.13. Other lnterferences and Possibilities for Standardization. Although
systematic studies are lacking. it is probable that the outcome of the LDsn-test
can be inﬂuenced by many other environmental factors, such as humidity of the
air. the light—dark cycle. weather. noise, technical adroitness of the laboratory

.{va’a A-v. ”'5’3p_"ﬂid.‘_“v“ ..

_ ._.—- ,. -r-‘c—VWWW .mm'zrhlﬁt" 0‘ OV~‘.“‘- 5*

 




86 G. Zbinden and M. Flury~Roversi

personnel. duration of the period of adaptation in the testing laboratory, etc. It is
evident that a standardization of the test procedure is necessary if one wants to
control. at least to a certain degree, the many disturbing inﬂuences that can
affect the test results. However, this is only partially possible, e.g., with regard
to age. strain, sex. and weight of the laboratory animals. As a further
complication it must be acknowledged that there is no unanimity among the
experts as to the optimal protocol of the LDSO-test procedure. Moreover, it is
questionable if one single protocol would be ideally suited for all types of
chemicals.

From these considerations it must be concluded that the result of a LDSO-test,
even if it were conducted with the greatest care. must be regarded as an isolated
biological finding that cannot make a claim to universal and perpetual
validity.

4.3. Precision and Reproducibility of the LD50- Test in Toxicological Practice

Experience in industry has shown that the variability of the LDSU can be kept at
an acceptably low level if the tests are done under strictly controlled and
standardized conditions in the same laboratory (Zbinden 1963). The results
obtained in different laboratories are, however, often marred by marked
discrepancies. This is illustrated by a large study organized in 1977 by the
Commission of the European Communities (Hunter et al. 1977). In this trial 65
toxicolological laboratories in eight countries tested five substances. The
laboratories were authorized to use their own standard procedure and because of
this, the experimental protocols were quite variable. For example. 42% of the
laboratories used Sprague-Dawley rats, 36% the Wistar strain, 2% the
Long-Evans strain and 20% an unspecified or an individual strain of animals.
The mean weights of the animals ranged from 52—400 g in males and from
52—245 g in females. Similar differences were present in many other
experimental details.

Not unexpectedly the numerical values of the LD50 determined in the various
laboratories showed considerable differences. In order to illustrate these
variations the extreme values observed in male rats are presented in the
following Table:

 

Ratio maximal/
minimal value

 

PCP (lipid soluble) 44- 523 mglkg 11.89
Na salicylate (water soluble) 800—4,150mg/kg 5.19
Aniline (lipid soluble) 350—1,280mg/kg 3.66
Acetanilide (insoluble) 804—5420 mg/kg 6.74
Cadmium chloride (water soluble) 70- 513 mg/kg 7.33

 

Based on these findings 3 second inter-laboratory trial with the same
substances was initiated. Important experimental conditions, such as caging and
feeding conditions. weight and age of the animals. duration of the pre-trial
fasting period and duration of observation. time and method of administration,

Significance of l.l)q.-'1'est X7

solvents and suspension media, and volume of application were standardized.
One hundred laboratories in 13 countries participated in this exercise.

Until the end of 1979 the results of approximately 80 laboratories became
available (Commission of the European Communities and United States
Environmental Protection Agency 1979). In the following table the extreme
values determined in male rats are again listed.

 

Ratio maximal/
minimal value

 

PCP 74-2328 mg/kg 8.38
Na salicylate 930—2328 mg/kg 2.50
Aniline « 479- 1 .169 mg/kg 2,44
Acetanilide . 723—1060 mg/kg 4,23
Cadmium chloride 105—- 482 mg/kg 4,59

 

The variations are clearly smaller than in the first experiment, but there are
still considerable inter-laboratory differences.

4.3. Conclusions

From the data summarized in the preceeding paragraphs it is evident that the
L050 as determined in animal experiments represents a biological value that is
subject to considerable variations. By increasing the number of animals used for
an experiment, it would probably be possible to increase precision and
reproducibility of the test. But even under the best of conditions and repetition
of the test in the same laboratory under rigidly controlled circumstances, the
experimentally determined LD50 values will never be identical (Sperling 1976).
Thus. the LDSU value cannot be taken as a biological constant that would provide
an unequivocal characterization of a chemical substance.

As pointed out above, it is probable that precision and reproducibility of the
LDSO—test could often be improved by sacrificing large numbers of animals. The
question then arises whether there is, indeed, a need for a high precision of the
test procedure.

In the report of the expert committee of the British Pharmaceutical Industry
(A.B.P.l. 1977), it is repeatedly pointed out that a high precision of the
LDSO-test is not required for most industrial applications. The use of the
LDSn-test for standardization of toxic drugs is, perhaps with the exception of
vaccines and similar biological products, obsolete.

For the determination of an approximate LD50 and of the maximal tolerated
and minimal lethal dose, there exist experimental procedures which use small
numbers of animals. They provide results which are adequate for many
purposes. such as the classification of the compounds in official lists of poisonous
substances. For this determination it is only necessary to identify super-toxic
(LDsu < 5 mg/kg). extremely toxic (LDSO 5-50 mg/kg), very toxic (LDSU 50—500
mg/kg), moderately toxic (LDSU 500-5,000 mg/kg). slightly toxic (5.000- 15,000
mg/kg) and practically non-toxic (LDSO > 15,000 mg/kg) substances (Gleason et
al. 1969; Ellison 1979).

uV\ u .a‘aw 11- m-«m~wnty-mm~ﬁ«_ Hm‘ “.I:'w3mr"w ”whv’rw' .‘v‘ :¥“‘A ' '

 




I
‘.Q..-.- a n

‘1... Moan-pd- .n—‘HO-‘on

.a.-

. - ... .-.~ .

.5
.2;
C

88 G. Zbinden and M. Flury-Roversi

With the approximate lethal dose method published by Deichmann and Le
Blane in 1943, an approximate L05” can be determined with about six animals.
When this procedure was evaluated, a LDg, within i 30% of the LD,” value
obtained by the classical procedure was found in 88% of 87 substances. With this
abbreviated method it was possible to assign most compounds to the correct class
of poisons (Deichmann and Mergard 1948).

Other useful procedures, such as the up-and-down method of Dixon and
Mood (1948) and a similar test proposed by Maynard (see Smith et al. 1960) also
use small numbers of animals and can be tried successfully for many purposes.
An excellent test is the method of moving averages of Thompson (1947) that also
uses small numbers of animals. When this method was evaluated with 30
compounds practically the same LDSU was found as that determined in the
classical LDm-test for 29 substances (Weil 1952). .

A new method for the determination of the LDSO with few animals was
recently proposed by Molinengo (1979). It is based on a relationship between
dose and survival time. Using 10 drugs (including ethanol) a LDSU was
determined with 6—11 mice per substance. The values found were quite similar
to the LD50 published in the literature.

From these data it is clear that approximate LDSU values can be determined
with small numbers of animals. For all purposes where high precision is not
necessary, such approximate figures can be used. This is also the opinion of the
expert group ofthe British Pharmaceutical industry (A.B.P.l. 1977) which. in its
final report, writes the following: “Adequate information regarding the acute
toxicity, including the acute lethality, of new drugs can often be obtained by the
use of smaller numbers of animals than are conventionally used in LDSO
determination”.

1n the same report it is also stated that the determination of the LDSO by the
conventional method does not constitute an essential prerequisite to guarantee
safety of ail new drugs. This opinion is further supported by the fact that in
practically all countries the L050 determination with non-rodents (dogs,
monkeys, etc.) has been replaced by an exploratory test procedure that uses
small numbers of animals. There is no scientific reason why a similar

experimental protocol should not be used for the evaluation of acute toxicity in
rodents.

5. Goals of Acute Toxicity Testing and Qualiﬁcation
of the LDso-Test to Reach These Goals

5.]. General Remarks

Scientific toxicology defines the acute toxicity test as the investigation of adverse
effects of a chemical substance following brief (usually single dose) exposure. In
industrial toxicology. however, the acute toxicity test often consists only of a
standardized determination of the LDSO in various animal species using several
routes of administration. This is, unfortunately. still a widely accepted practice,
although toxicologists have for many years insisted that it is not allowable to

Significance ol LOW-Test at)

regard acute toxicity testing and LI)“, determination as equal terms (Balazs
1970', Neubert 1975). The inadequacies of the LDso-test for a comprehensive
appraisal of the undesired effects of single dose treatments have been carefully
analyzed by Sperling (1976), and were also ,underlined by a group of experts
commenting on the proposed new law of chemical substances of the Federal
Republic of Germany (Rat von Sachverstandigen 1979).

5.2. Ranges of Application of Acute Toxicity Testing

5.2.]. General Evaluation of Poisonousness, Symptomatology of Poisoning and
Target Organs of Toxic Effects. The most valid objection against the classical
LBW—test is the fact that the experimental procedure is essentially designed to
consider one particular aspect of the adverse effects, lethality, and to attempt to
measure this action quantitatively. This stubborn preoccupation with mortality,
and the inexplicable neglect of morbidity, i.e., the adverse effects that do not
cause deat , are critically reviewed in a paper of Sperling (1976). He writes: “It
is no longer sufficient to count bodies and from such a count develop an index of
toxicity. This index, the LDSO, is in fact only marginally informative,
toxicologically inadequate. and misleading, especially when it is derived from
single doses”. And Neubert (1975) writes: .,Die Letal-Dosis ist zwar routi-
nemaBig experimentell am leichtesten zu ermitteln, gibt aber haufig fur eine
toxikologische Beurteilung die geringste Information. Friiher haufig beniitzte
Begriffe wie ,.therapeutische Breite“ (EDSD/LDSO) sind zur Beurteilung der
risk-benefit Bedingungen beim Menschen von recht zweifelhaftem Wert.“

In an effort to improve the limited informational content of the LDw-test
several authors have proposed to supplement and upgrade the procedure with
additional observations, examination and measurements. These might include a
detailed check list of clinical symptoms, physiological measurements. such as
blood pressure, body temperature, reflex activity, electrocardiogram, food and
water intake. respiration, behavior, motor activity, and pupillary diameter,
blood chemical determinations, assessment of quality of feces, and urine
volume, etc. Moreover, studies to assess gross and microscopic pathology of the
principal organs were also suggested Balazs 1972; Zbinden 1973; Hodel
1975).

There is no doubt that the value of the LDSO-test can be enhanced with such
measures. It was mentioned before (4.3) that the acute toxicity test in
non-rodents already includes many of these measurements. The information
gained by these procedures is often very useful, and much relevant data can be
obtained from a careful study of few animals.

However. one should not over-estimate the predictive capability of even a
very comprehensive acute toxicity test. For the assessment of many toxic effects
a procedure that involves single dose administration is just not well suited. This
is clearly underlined by Neubert (1975) in a recent review of the toxicological test
procedure: He writes: ,,FUr die toxikologische Beurteilung sind in zunehmen-
dem MaBe GroBen ausschlaggebend. die in reversiblen oder irreversiblen
Schadigungen bestimmter Organsysteme oder auf dem (jebiet der Carcinoge-

-’-m‘A-ANXM.O‘“-9me ‘- IW:IV7_M‘;W r,’.“f'~f m-zw ’ 'fw "Y" T 'W' -

 




O
.--..

~"O‘.f~l.br. “(A‘w‘oI‘n‘vl

90 Cu. Zbindcn and M. Flury-Rovcrsi

nitat, Teratogenitat oder Mutagenitat zu suchen sind — Effekte, die mit einer
akuten oder subchronischen Letaldosis kaum korreliert zu sein brauchen.“

Even for the assessment of the acute toxic properties of chemicals the LDN, is
often inadequate. Death after single high dose treatment often occurs as a
consequence of an acute pharmacodynamic effect on an especially sensitive
target organ (e.g., centrally induced convulsions, depression of the respiratory
center). Thus, the animals may die before changes in other organs that might be
more relevant have time to develop. It is probable that the dose-effect curves of
various lethal and non—lethal effects differ, and this means that the median lethal
dose that is related to a specific effect on one target organ or organ system,
cannot be representative for the entire spectrum of adverse effects (Sperling
1976).

An interesting example is the acute toxicity test of nine halogenated
methanes (solvents) in mice (Kutob and Plaa 1962). After inhalation of part of
these substances the animals died due to anesthesia and acute cardiovascular
collapse. But the compounds also possess distinct hepatotoxic properties which,
of course, require a certain time to become manifest. The highest LD50, (i.e., the
lowest acute toxicity as measured with the LDSn-test) was found with
carbontetrachloride (CCl4). This compound and carbontetrabromide (CBr4).
however, were the most potent hepatotoxins. Methyliodide (CH3l) was highly
toxic on acute administration causing death rapidly due to central nervous
system depression and cardiovascular collapse. The hepatotoxic effects of this
compound were masked by the acute lethal effects on the central nervous and
cardiovascular systems. Only with the help of additional biochemical studies was
it possible to demonstrate the important hepatotoxic qualitites of the
compound.

5.2.2. The Special Case of the Pharmacologically Inert Compounds. In the
introduction it was stated that toxicological studies are not only conducted with
poisons and relatively dangerous chemicals. such as drugs and pesticides, but
also with many other substances in the human environment. Among these are
many compounds that have no or only minimal effects on all organ systems and
which may, therefore, be considered pharmacologically inert. A certain
percentage of these substances are nevertheless of toxicological significance, but
their adverse properties manifest themselves in different ways, e.g., by induction
of allergic and other types of hypersensitivity reactions, by activation of
metabolic activities and by induction of tumors. These qualities are not
recognized by a test that requires single administration.

As an example of these pharmacologically inert chemicals the food additives
shall be mentioned. These are substances that are added to foods by the
manufacturers in order to improve quality and durability (“intentional food
additives"). The most important classes of compounds are preservatives,
enzymes, antioxidants, ﬂavors, colors, 'anticaking agents, emulsifiers, and
thickening agents.

Many of the important food additives are consumed by a large percentage of
the population over the whole life-time. Because of this almost uninterrupted
exposure careful toxicological studies are required for all new food additives.

Significance of LDw-Test 91

and national and international regulatory agencies have long been concerned
with their toxicology. Since 1957 the Joint FAO/WHO Expert Committee on
Food Additives (JECFA) has promulgated testing protocols (JECFA1958) that
describe acute, sub-acute, and chronic toxicity studies, teratogenicity, muta-
genicity, and carcinogenicity experiments. in 1973 the JECFA has reaffirmed
this program (JECFA 1974). The guidelines for the acute toxicity tests can be
summarized as follows:

-— Testing of substances with single administration in three animal species,
one of which a non-rodent. Testing in both sexes with at least one
species.

-— Determination of the exact LDSO in one species according to standard
procedures, in the other species determination of the approximate LDso. If the
lethal dose is > 5 g/kg, no exact determination of the LDSO is required.

— The test substances must be administered orally and parenterally.

— Onset, type, and duration of toxic symptoms must be observed. Autopsy
in part of dying and surviving animals. Microscopic evaluation if autopsy shows
pertinent changes.

Since these guidelines were adopted by many national regulatory agencies; ,

the chemical industry was forced to act accordingly. As pointed out above, most
food additives are pharmacologically inert. In order to demonstrate a toxic
effect, the experiments were , therefore, often conducted with very high, even,

totally unreasonable doses. Only through grotesque overdosing was it possible to \I'

kill animals and to obtain the data from which a LDSU could be calculated. The
cause of death was, of course, often not at all related to the relevant toxicological

. . . . 1
properties of the food additive, but was a consequence of the large mass of inert .3

chemicals overloading the gastrointestinal tract and the excretory brgans.

The archives and data collections of the World Health Organization (WHO
Food Additives Series) contain summaries of such experimental data. Two
typical examples that could be multiplied almost at will, shall be men-
honed.

a) Tartaric acid. This acid is naturally occurring in many fruits. Wine
contains 1—3 g/l, grape juice about 10 g/l. The acid is added to certain foods as a
preservative. ln baked goods, for example, it is used in amounts up to 1.3 g/kg.

Although it was known from the old literature that tartaric acid is not
poisonous and that it is well tolerated by experimental animals in large amounts
(JECFA 1977), the available toxicological data had to amended in order to
satisfy national health regulations. A LD50-test for which 240 rats were sacrificed
was done. It was found that doses of 2.5—32.2 g/kg of the acid had a caustic
action in the gastrointestinal tract. The animals that survived the local insult to
their stomach showed no toxic symptoms (unpublished data of the WHO).
Death was, therefore, not the result of a true toxic effect but solely a
consequence of a serious corrosion of the gastric mucosa by an excessive amount
of an acid. For the assessment of the health risk of tartaric acid as a food
additive, i.e., the chronic intake in small concentrations in the food, this
LDSU-test is without significance.

b) lnosinic acid. This substance is an intermediate that is normally formed in
the animal and human organism. 1n the food industry it has found a use as flavor,

l

- t . “A .r-‘q-w‘ cg ﬁr~4mwmm~¢“‘w,m¢« ' 4"“ ‘,.1"“V w ‘Mw‘v—udw ,1.va fW o—g‘M-WW o 1' h.-.-

i

 




92 G. Zhinden and M. Flury-Rovcrsi

Table 1. LDa, values of inosinic acid (from: WHO food
additives series. no. 6)

 

Animal Route of application LD5,u (mg/kg)
speCtes
Mouse oral 121100-1401)
oral (male) 17,600
oral (female) 19.800
s.c. 6200—7000
s.c. (male) 5.480
s.c. (female) 5,630
i.p. 5,40()—-5.600
i.p. (male) 6.300
i.p. (female) 6.200
i.v. 3300—3511)
i.v. (male) 3.950
i.v. (female) 4,600

oral 16,000
oral (male) 17.100
oral (female) 15,900
s.c. (male) 3.900
s.c. (female) 4.340
i.p. (male) 5.400
i.p. (female) 4.850
i.v. (male) 2,730
i.v. (female) 2,870

 

 

particularly as a ﬂavor enhancer in salty foods. The concentrations in foods are
very low. i.e., 0.005%—0.02%. This gives a maximal content of 200 mg inosinic
acid per kg food. JECFA has allowed the use of the ﬂavor without restrictions.
Nevertheless, certain manufacturers found it necessary to conduct extensive
acute toxicity studies. They are summarized in Table 1. From this table it is not
possible to determine the number of animals that were sacrificed. However, a
conservative estimate would put it a approximately 1.000.

It is difficult to suggest a scientific justification for these studies. The
information gained is certainly irrelevant for the practical use of the compound
as a food additive. It is incomprehensible why a ﬂavor that is added to food in
trace amounts was tested by the subcutaneous. intraperitoneal, and intravenous
routes. And it is hardly understandable why the animals were given up to 20 g/kg
of the compound. For a 60 kg human being. this would represent 1,200 kg
inosinic acid, enough to ﬂavor at least 6 tons ‘of food. As pointed out earlier
(5.2.2.). the JECFA has wisely proposed that no exact LDsi. determination is
necessary for substances that are not lethal at 5 g/kg. For this reason. a few
animals fed this dose of inosinic acid would have given all the information
necessary and relevant for the appraisal of the acute toxicity of the flavor.

5.2.3. Prediction of Symptomatology and Lethal Dose in Humans. Acute
poisoning with chemical substances. be it with suicidal intent or by accident. has
become a serious medical problem. One might believe that the results of the

Significance of LDw-Test

93

Table 2. Comparison of the lethal doses found in animal experiments and in man (from Muller

1948)

Sensitivity of man

Compared to animal experiment

 

Sensitivity of man
Compared to animal experiment

 

Stimulants
l’entylenetetrazol
Caffeine
Pikrotoxin
Strychnine

Blood poisons
Aniline

Potassium cyanide
Hydrocyanic acid
Potassium chlorate

Antipyretics—Analgesics
Aspirin

Aminopyrine
Antipynne

llypnoties
Phenobarbital
Tribromoethanol
Propallylonal
Carbromal
Cyclobarbital

Diallyl. barbituric acid
Chloral hydrate
Barbital
Sulfonmethane

l-fold
l~fold
l'l()ld
l-fold

l-fold
1-fold
4-fold
S—7-fold

l~fold
llli—Z-fold
5—10-fold

l-fold
2-3-fold
3—4~fold
2-5-fold
1.5—5~fold
3-6-fold
10-fold
3-15-fold

Chemotherapeutics

Emeline l-fold
Sulfanilamide 2—4-fold
Quinine 6—8-fold
Arsphenamine 2-30-fold

Metabolic poisons

Oxalic acid 10-20-fold
Salicylic acid 10—20-fold
Arsenic 3-40-fold
Phosphorus 10—60-fold

Disinfectants

Potassium permanganate 1-fold
Thymol ca. 10-fold
Mercuric chloride 3—12-fold
ltldUlUfm 4*](Xl-l0ld

Local anesthetics

Dibucaine HCl 2-5-fold
Tetracaine HCl 7—12-fold
Alypin 3—30~fold
Tropacocaine 20— 71 Hold
Cocaine 4-100-fold
Procaine 30—150—fold

Autonomic nervous system drugs

6—18-fold Physostigmine 1-fold
Epinephrine 10- 15-fold
Atropin 600—1.(XlO-fold
Pilccarpine 500-2000-fold

 

LDSU-test in animals would be of great interest for emergency physicians and
poison control centers, since the acute toxicity experiments imitate to a
considerable extent the catastrophic situations occurring in humans. In practice,
however, the results of the LDSu—test are of rather limited significance for
medical diagnosis and treatment.

The major reasons are the species-specific differences in sensitivity against
chemical substances as discussed previously (4.2.1.). With acetaminophene, an
analgesic frequently misused for suicidal purposes in the British Isles, mice and
hamsters die after single doses of 250—400 mg/kg because of liver necrosis. 1n
rats. however, the oral LDSU is about 1.000 mg/kg. and even with this dose it is
hardly possible to demonstrate a liver damage (Jollow et a1. 1974). How can the
physician from such controversial data predict the response of human
subjects?

Differences exist not only between various laboratory animal species but also
between animals and man. In her thesis R. Maller (1948) has made an attempt to

_

‘L- ”.- _,-.m‘ ‘3’m_ 'Q'. .wh'” oe—v“ H ‘3

_ . . —. --<.~mvgmw'—~§~“-‘WW';m”M~«‘M“-

 




l

O

t
nun—4‘. -— . ~ -

n; .— 4.....- u o ea...“ -

4.1... ..

94 G. Zbinden and M. Flury-Roversi

compare the lethal doses of various chemicals in animals and man. Table 2,
taken form this review, demonstrates that the sensitivity for poisonous
substances differs often quite considerably. It is, thus, rarely possible to
extrapolate from the LDSO in animals to the lethal dose in man. Moreover, in
most over-dose situations in humans there are a variety of complicating factors,
such as marked inter-individual differences in sensitivity, disease, age (most
cases of accidental poisoning occur in small children). alcohol abuse and
ingestion of multiple drugs and chemicals. Thus, lethal doses in man vary over a
much larger range than in experimental animals.

Much more important than the numerical value of the lethal dose is the
knowledge of the symptomatology of an acute intoxication and the target organs
of the toxic effects. Whenever a new chemical is introduced on the market, it
would be desirable to know which organ damage and what kind of functional
disturbances would have to be expected in a case of accidental poisoning or a
suicide attempt. But even here, the LDm-test often fails to satisfy this important
need of the emergency physician. The reason is the fact that in the standard
procedure signs and symptoms induced by test substances are often neither
registered nor reported, a most deplorable sin of omission that is emphatically
denounced in the review of Sperling (1976). From an extended acute toxicity test
as described previously (5.2.1.), much important information on symptoma-

, tology and target organs of toxicity could be expected. It is safe to say that a
Ecarefully conducted short-term experiment on few, but rigidly monitored
animals. would serve a much more useful purpose than a standard LDM,
”'1determination conducted with scores of animals. Thus, as a means of learning
{about potential problems in human over-dose situations the classical LDm-test is
:redundant and should be replaced by a simpler but more scientific test

éprocedure.

Unfortunately even with carefully designed animal experiments it is
sometimes not possible topredict all relevant symptoms of an acute intoxication
in man. Human response to chemical substances is often quite peculiar. and
valid experimental model systems to assess these reactions are lacking. For this
reason, it is very important to intensify research which will permit us to expand
the range of toxicological knowledge and to improve the predictability of the
test procedures Governments and industry would be well advised if part of the
funds now spent for routine investigations would be allocated to the study of
better testing methods.

5.2.4. Selection of Dosages for Sub-Acute and Chronic Toxicity Tests. In earlier
years, toxicologists used to base their choice of doses for sub-acute and chronic
tests on the outcome of the LDSU determination. This practice has largely been
abandoned, since it was found that toxic effects on repeated administration
could often not be predicted with a test using a single dose. For example. with
the anti-tubercular drug isoniazid and five chemical derivatives no constant
correlation was found between the oral LI)“, and the general tolerance with daily
dosing (Zbinden 1963). A particularly telling example is the corticosteroid
hormone, dexamethasone. The subcutaneous LDS” in rats was 1le mg/kg. On
repeated administration, however, rats and dogs did not tolerate daily doses of

Significance of LDm-Tcst 95

more than 0.07 mg/kg (Peck 1968). Based on such observations, it is now
customary to select the doses for repeated dose administration studies in simple
pilot experiments using a mounting dose scheme on a few animals.

5.2.5. Information on Absorption Rate and Bioavailability. The LDSO-test
receives occasional praise because it is thought to provide useful information
about the rate and the completeness ofdrug absorption (bioavailability) (Kaplan
and Jack 1979). If the L050 after iv injection is considerably lower than that
after oral administration, it is concluded that the absorption from the
gastrointestinal tract is incomplete or delayed. Such a simplistic statement is,
however, of limited practical significance. The knowledge of pharmacokinetics
and the methods of measuring uptake, distribution, metabolism, and excretion
of chemicals are so advanced that the simple but ambiguous lethality test for an
assessment of pharmacokinetic mechanisms should now be discarded. The same
is true for studies of bioavailability which must be done with exact measurements
of drug concentrations in blood and tissues and elimination through the various
excretory channels. Studies of this kind have become standard procedures They
require much fewer animals than the LDSU- test and provide much more relevant
and reliable information.

5.2.6. Discovery of Special Risks to Neonates and Infants. It is a common
experience that newborn and infants often react differently to chemical
substances than the adult. This is of particular importance for the use of
therapeutic agents in this age group. Some time ago, the American Food and
Drug Administration (FDA) requested that LDSO be determined in newborn
animals with all commonly used drugs. It was hoped that these studies would
provide important information regarding special risks of drug therapy in the
early age groups. It is not known how many animals were sacrified to test this

hypothesis. The results, however, were of almost no practical use. From a survey...;,..‘-..-

reported by Goldenthal (1971) giving the results with 233 drugs. it is evident that
the ratios of the LDSU in adult animals to that determined in newborn show large
variations. There are substances that are particularly toxic for newborn animals,
but there are just as many drugs that are less toxic for the newborn animals than
for the adut. These differences are mostly due to the incomplete maturation of
drug metabolizing enzymes in newborn rodents, possibly also to an under-
development of receptors for certain drug effects. Since these factors are specieszg:
specific, the findings cannot be readily extrapolated to the human newborn and
infants.

The gigantic experiment initiated by the FDA gave further confirmation to a
well established fact, namely that newborn rats and mice are sometimes more
and sometimes less sensitive against the toxic effects of drugs than adult animals.
From this it is safe to conclude that the same is true for the human newborn. But
the reaction of the human newborn must be determined specifically for each
drug and cannot be deduced from an LDsU-test in newborn rats or mice (Zbinden

1973). The same conclusion was reached by the author of the FDA study on,

Mann» .2

comperative LDSU values in newborn and adult animals (Goldenthal 1971). He

writes: “More meaningful predictions of the effects of a specific drug on the

human neonate or infant could be made if the approach to the problem were

t
2:

“IV V‘T—w. Viwwdm—«

 

 

 

 




 

, muses”; sway:

G. Zbindcn and M. Hury-Roversi

" 7,,mvoregscientific and less empirical. The process by which drugs are altered in

animals and man at various stages of development should be determined with
conSideration given to patterns of enzymatic development and to the inﬂuence of
age on drug response, distribution, and excretion". It is clear from this statement
that pharmacokinetic and metabolic investigations in human newborn and
infants are the most promising way to determine a Special risk in the young age
groups. The senseless killing of uncounted mouse and rat pups for the sole
purpose to have a LD50 value in newborn is a thing of the past.

5.2.7. Conclusions. The acute toxicity test (single dose toxicity) is still of
considerable importance for the assessment of risk posed by new chemical
substances, and for a better control of natural and synthetic agents in the human
environment. It is not permissible, however, to regard a routine determination
of the LDSO in various animals species as a valid substitute for an acute toxicity
study.

For a comprehensive assessment of the poisonousness of a chemical
substance well directed and science-based methods must be applied. Such
studies often require much smaller numbers of animals than the classical
LDSO-test, and through incorporation of a variety of clinical and laboratory
techniques it is possible to greatly enhance their informational content. These
data are more important than numerical LDSO values determined with the
highest precision.

For the evaluation of chemical substances with a very low acute toxicity
(pharmacologically inert substances) the LDSO-test is without practical or
theoretical relevance. The killing of animals with unrealistically high doses, the
deliberate induction of secondary malfunctions of organs through excessive
overloading with harmless chemicals does not contribute at all to the knowledge
of potential toxicological hazards occurring with chronic exposure to such
agents. Substances that are well tolerated by small rodents at oral doses of 5 g/kg
and at parenteral doses of 2 g/kg should not be subjected to a LDSO-test.

For the recognition of the symptomatology of acute poisoning in man and for
the determination of the human lethal dose the LDSO-test in animals is of very
little value. Much more relevant information could be gained from a well
conducted comprehensive short term test which includes clinical and biochem—
ical monitoring and gross and microscopic pathology. Such a test could be done
with small numbers of animals. The application of the LDSU-test for the solution
of pharmacokinetic problems must be regarded as one of the semi-quantitative

2 pilot procedures that have no place in modern pharmaceutical and chemical
5 research. The use of the LDSU-test as basis for selection of doses for sub-acute
and chronic toxncrty tests and other procedures (e.g., teratogenicity. carcino-

_' genicity studies) is obsolete.

6. Proposals for Changes of Regulatory Requirements Pertaining
to the LDw-Test

Based on the present review of the literature and on proposals made by manv
toxrcological experts, it appears mandatory that certain changes be made in

Signiﬁcance of LDm-Test 97

toxicological guidelines by regulatory agencies. As a minimum, these should
include the following:

— In all guidelines and regulations for toxicological studies it must be stated
specifically that the concept of acute toxicity testing (harmful effects of single
doses) is not identical with the performance of a classical LDSO-test.

- In all guidelines and regulations for toxicological studies the classical
LDm-test carried out with large animals, such as dogs, monkeys, pigs, etc., must
be prohibited. In its place, a shortterm test on small numbers of animals
incorporating a variety of clinical, chemical, and histopathological examinations
must be required.

— In all guidelines and regulations for toxicological studies it must be pointed
out that the classical LDSO-test with small rodents using large numbers of animals
is only permissible if the reason for the desired high precision is clearly stated
and scientifically justified. In all cases Where a high precision of the L050
determination is not required a test using small numbers of animals must be
used. For this test supplementary clinical, chemical, and histopathological
examinations must be required.

— In all guidelines and regulations for toxicological studies it must be stated
that no LD50 test should be done with pharmacologically inert substances. It is
sufficient to determine that a single oral dose of approximately 5 g/kg and a
single parenteral dose of approximately 2 g/kg cause neither acute symptoms nor
death of the animals.

— The requirement to conduct a LDSO-test in newborn animals must be
eliminated from all guidelines and regulations. For the assessment of special
risks in newborn humans and infants, clinical-pharmacological and pharmaco-
kinetic studies must be required. These should preferentially be done in human
subjects but may be substituted by specifically designed studies in immature
animals.

— For the classification of chemicals with the aim to assign them to a toxicity
class in official lists of poisonous substances the approximate LD50 values
determined in small numbers of animals by an appropriate method must be
accepted. Whenever possible, the classification should also consider other
relevant data including information obtained through pharmacological, bio-
chemical, and chronic toxicological studies. Modern knowledge and concepts of
structure~activity relationships should also be applied.

Acknowledgements. We thank the ..Stiftung Fonds fiir versuchstierfreie Forschung“ for financial
support of this study and Prof. D. Henschler. Wiirzburg. for helpful suggestions.

References

A.B.P.l. (1977) Report on the LDm-test for the advisory committe on the administration of the
cruelty to animals act. 1876 Unpublished document issued by the Association of the British
Pharmaceutical Industry

Balazs T (NY/’0) Measurement of acute toxicity. in methods in toxicology. Blackwell Scientific
Publications. Oxford and Edinburgh. p 49

'-W:‘MWW

MC“ V‘ '-

~ ,‘.-

 




l?
.s
~w.

>w~_

.. -. O O
G. Lhinden and M. FIury-Roversi Significance of LDWTest 99

 

u... _. r-tw...

. -_.‘“H—~_.—dﬁ.

BaIaZs TI W72) (.‘ardiotoxicity of isoproterenol in experimental animals. Influence ol'stress. obesity
and repeated dosing. In: Battisl Ii. Rona (3 (cds) Recent advances in studies on cardiac structure
and metabolism. vol I. Urban & Scbmirlenberg. Monchen Berlin Wien. p 77”

Balazs T. Arena E. Barron (NI I972) Protection against the ciirdiotoxic effect of isoproterenol ”(I
by restricted food intake in rats. ’I‘oxrcol Appl Pharmacol 1l ‘ 717

Behrens B (I929) Zur Auswirkung der [)i " -' 5 ....

git.ilisbl.ittcr in F ~ . ;
Pharmacol [4":237_256 I roschversuch. Arch Exp Pithol

Bliss CI (I915) The calculation of the dosage-mortality curve. Am Appl Biol 22: H4

Brown AM (I962) Strain variation in mice. J Pharm Pharmacol l-I:~t()6—-II(I

(obb LM. (irimshaw P (I979) Acute toxicity of oral diqiiat (|.l'-ethvlene-2.2'-bipvridinium) in
(vnomologus monkeysloxicol Appl Pharmacol SI : 277—282 I 1

( oniinissiop ot the European (‘ommunities and United States [Environmental Protection Agency
((979) Second Intercomparison Programme on ID... (‘ollection of Results. (‘olloqumm: Quality
Assurance of Toxicological I)ata. Luxembourg. December ll-l.‘

Congey3A7H (1267) Pharmacological implications of microsomal enzyme induction. Pharmacol Rev

Deichmann WB. LeBlanc TJ (I943) Determination of the approximate lethal dose with about six
animals. J Ind Hyg Toxicol 25:4IS—4I7

Deichmann WB. Mergard EG (I948) Comparative evaluation of methods employed to express the

. degree of toxicny of a compound. J Ind Hyg Toxicol 30: 373—378
Dieke SH. Richter LP (I945) Acute toxicity of throurea to rats in relation to age. diet. strain. and
' speCies variation. J Pharmacol Exp Ther 83: 195—202

Dug): W36 Mlozd AM ( I948) A method for obtaining and analyzing sensitivity data. J Am Stat Assoc

Ellison T (I979) Toxicological effects testing. In: Dominquez 0 (ed) Guidebook. toxic substances
control act. CRC Press Inc.. Cleveland. Ohio. p til

Ferguson HL (l962) Dilution of dose and acute toxicity. Toxicol Appl Pharmacol 4:759-762

Fuhrman GJ. Fuhrman FA (I961) Effects of temperature on the action of drugs. Ann Rev
Pharmacol I:65—78

Gaddum JH (I933) Reports on biological standards III methods of biological assay depending on a
quantal response. MRC Special Report. MSO. London. Ser No 183

Gleason MN. Gosselin RE. Hodge HC. Smith RP (I969) Clinical toxicology of commercial
products. Acute poisoning. 3rd ed. Williams and Wilkins Co.. Baltimore

Goldenthal El (I97I) A compilation of LDs0 values in newborn and adult animals. Toxicol Appl
Pharmacol I8: 185—207

Hodel C. Leist KH. Anseeuw P (I975) A comparison of results from prolonged and acute toxicity
studies in rats. Proc Eur Soc Toxicol I7: I7l -I78

Hunter WJ. ngk W. Recht P (not dated) An intercomparison study conducted by the Commission
of the European Communities on the determination of the single administration toxicity in rats.
Communicated by the Health and Safety Directorate. Commission of the European
Communities (unpublished document)

JECFA (Joint FAQ/WHO Expert Committee on Food Additives) ( I958) Procedures for the testing
of intentional food additives to establish their safety for use. Wld Hlth ()rg ’I'echn Rep Ser
I44 i

JECFA (Joint FAQ/WHO Expert Committee of Food Additives) ( I974) Toxicological evaluation of
certain food additives with a revrew of general principles and of specification. Wld IIIth ()rg
Techn Rep Ser 5‘9

JECFA (Jornt FAO/WIIO Expert Committee on Food Additives) (I977) Summary of toxicological
data of certain food additives. WHO Food Additives Series. no l2. pp 9—I3

Jollow DJ. Iborgeirsson SS. Potter WZ. Hashimoto M. Mitchell JR ( I974) Acetaminophen-induccd
hepatic necrosis. IV. Metabolic disposition of toxic and nontoxic doses of acetaminophen
Pharmacology IZ' ZSI —27l .

Kaplan SA, Jack ML (I979) In vitro. in situ. and in vivo models in biovailabilitv assessment. In:
Blanchard J. Sawchuk RJ.Brodie BB (eds) Princrples and perspectives in drug biovailabilitv
Karger. Basel. p l56 ii

Karbcr () ( I9Il I Bertrag zur koIlektiven Behandlun h- ' “‘ ‘ '

_ gp armakolo ischer Reihenversuch .A h -
I’athol Pharmakol I6214SU-482 8 C '5 pr

Krijnen CJ. Boyd EM (I970) Susceptibility to captan pesticide of albino rats fed foam weaning on
diets containing various levels oI protein. Food Cosmet Toxicol II: 35—42
Kutob SD. Plaa GL (I962) A procedure for estimating the hepatotoxic potential of certain industrial
solvents. 'I'oxicol Appl Pharmacol 4: 354—36I
Litchfield J‘I‘. Fertig JW ( I96I) ()n a graphic solution of the dosage—effect curve. Bull John Hopkins
Univ 69: 276
Litchtield JT, Jr. Wilcoxon F (I949) A simpliﬁed method of evaluating dose-effect experiments. J
Pharmacol Ther 96:99—II3
Miller LC. Tainter ML (I944) Estimation of the ED," and its error by means of logarithmic probit
graph paper. Proc Soc Exp Biol Med 57; 26I-264
Molmengo L (I979) The curve doses vs survival time in the evaluation of acute toxicity. J Pharm
Pharmacol 3| : 343—344
Morrison JK. Quinton RM. Reinert H (I968) The purpose and value of Lqu determinations.
Historical introduction. In: Boyland E. Goulding R (eds) Modern trends in toxicology
Butterworths. London. p I
Muller R (I948) Vergleich der im Tierexperiment und beim Menschen tédlichen Dosen wichtiger
Pharmaka. Diss Univ Frankfurt/Main
Neubert D (I975) Die toxikoIogischen Voraussetzungen fur die innische Anwendung einer neuen
Substanz. In: von Eickstedt KW. Gross F (Hrsg) Aus Klinische Arzneimittelprufung.
Symposium fiir klinische Pharmakologie des Bundesgesundheitsamtes Berlin. Fischer. Stuttgart.
S. 22—42
Peck HM (I968) An appraisal of drug safety evaluation in animals and the extrapolation of results to
man. In: Tedeschi DH. Tedeschi RE (eds) Importance of fundamental principles in drug
evaluation. Raven Press. New York. p 449
Quinton RM. Reinert II (I968) Cited by Morrison JK. Quinton RM, Reinert H. In: Boyland E.
(ioulding R (eds) Modern'trends in toxicology. Butterworths. London. pp I—IR
Rat von Sachverstandigen ( I979) Stellungnahme des Rates von Sachverstandigen lur Umweltfragen
vom I9. 4. I979 zum Entwurf eines (‘hemikaliengesetzes vom 9. 2 I979. Umweltbrief.
Bundesminister des Inneren. Bonn. FRO. W: 23-40
Schwei/erische Eidgcnossenschaft (I969) IIundesgcsetz ubcr den Verkehr mit Giften (Giftgesctz)
Smith FA. Downs WL. Hodge II('. Maynard EA (I960) Screening of ﬂuorine-containing
compounds for acute toxicity. Toxicol Appl Pharmacol 2:54-58
Sperling F ( I976) Nonlethal parameters as indices of acute toxicity: inadequacy of the acute LDW In:
Mehlmann M. Shapiro RE. Blumenthal Il (eds) New concepts of safety evaluation. John Wiley
and Sous. New York London Sydney 'I'oronto. p I77
Thompson WR ( I947) Use of moving averages and interpolation to estimate median-effective dose.
I. Fundamental formulas. estimation of error. and relation to other methods. Bacteriol Rev
II : IIS- I45
Trevan JW (I927) The error of determination of toxicity. Proc Roy Soc IIIIB: 483—5”
Wegmann K (I969) Die neuen Vorschriften des Bundes iiber den Verkehr mit Giften. Schweiz Z
Sozialvers 13:287-3til
Weihe Wll (I973) The effect of temperature on the action of drugs. Ann Rev Pharmacol
I3: 409-425
Weil (‘5 (I952) Tables for convenient calculation of medianeffective dose (LDg) or EDg.) and
instructions in their use. Biometrics 8' 249-263
Weil (‘5. Wright GJ (I967) Intra- and interlaboratory comparative evaluation of single oral test.
Toxicol Appl Pharmacol “LVN—388
Wiberg (iS. (irice H(.‘ (I965) Effect of prolonged individual caging on toxicity parameters in rats.
Food (‘osmet Toxicol 31597-603
Zbindcn (I (196‘) Experimental and clinical aspects of drug toxicity. Adv Pharmac
2; l - I I2
Zbindenifi (I973) Acute toxicity. Progress in Toxicology. Special Topics. vol I. Springer. Berlin
Heidelberg New York. p 2}

Received January l6. I‘IKI

_ ‘WWWM’MW ..-.'—.-—,. 1—,, .. n.- ,.

s--~ - -¢.-- 'V'.‘IMWWS£WW

 




-
‘o-‘.‘vu..L
L, ‘L .y

3% ‘1. .

L" :x . '6'." . ‘ ‘._.-) 'L f. .7"? . .

‘w->-r‘—‘— _.-9.;‘5--...-_. ‘L‘-‘.~A .5 r-A—~

w r ‘ L.

I

\ if
‘g.

New Scientist 251m: (98!

.§
.u.

I

“~Q‘ a, - ..

w
“l .'

rvl

. 1 _-,..\,-
___‘, - N...
,. .. <2
~r .
«an... .21 '1‘!»

F
15;:

 

os-q

 

he"‘
31%“

“w I
no“

.
«hwy .
.\ . A ‘~

www-

First:

, shoes in Le st“: c211
$11111. -l-LIENT spent 23 “Z, L L

neinutes of its time F f ' “.11“
at two in the morning last , -' . _- -. “~
week discussing how to ‘ i '
reduce the numberlof ex—‘
periments carried out on .
animals. It was the‘first -.. ,
shot in a new campaign b .~ .- '
a scientiﬁc pressure grou‘g '
the Fund for the Replace-7f"
ment of Animals in Media '
cal Experiments (FRAME) ‘ ’
which is about to launch
a ﬁve-pronged research
programme aimed at find
ing alternatives to toxi-
cology tests on animals
——-w1°tb,FBAME hopes,
government support.

But the debate —on an adjournment
motion on Wednesday last week;—
achieved little apart from an assurance
that the gov’xer' ment is “fully aware Of
the problems.” '

FRAME has recruited 30 FPS to its
parliamentary group. The adjournment
debate (a procedural formality that
allows pressure groups to voice their
feelings on issues the government of
the day does not Want to give time to
debate) was the first step in a campaign
that will involve a full armoury of parlias
mentary weapons in an" eflort to per? '
suede the go vernment to act. ,
Joan Lestor, Labour MP for Eton and
Slough launched the adjournment de-
bate by asking the government to back
FRAlilE’s work~particularly in toxicity
testing~witb funds. She accused the
Medical Research Councilof being “slow
to take up some of the challenges and
alternatives" and cited the example
of the US in setting up a centre for alter-
nrtive methods of research. “I hope that-
at some time in the future, when we gain cultures of one or two common cell lines, more efﬁcient, and results are mUCh
further support and interest, the House and one or two different lines, under easier“ to extrapolate to human condio
will have a large-scale debate.” . Strictly controlled conditions. They will tions, scientists at Wellcome 5335 .
/.

Timothy liaison, Minister of Qtate of- . - ‘ 1.
dent ial appointment, there has been no

1118110318 OHICC, Y8pil“d SJ': Upatbeﬁ' '- . ii I "3‘ I it i. f Mr ”Err/:5 £‘ﬁ-L—‘f‘1’ﬁr‘CE‘gr‘pf- _r-fr-MEL— I l
. ‘_ ,
overt disagreement between the NIH
and Rear ans govLe mnent. Nevertheless,

cally to the plea but dashed hopes that ‘ ’ ‘ “ “"- ‘ ‘~ “Mu“ E u“ ‘3’

the government ’might be w: “illing 'to . FWHE Dll-li. (TOR of the: US Natigpai

finance research into alterna tives to 14* institutes of lie? lt,h Dr Donald S.

animal tests. "‘L‘Te simply 1:1: 11 Lot ignore Predaticlzson, 51-11“. risad the scientinc

the present overall need to restrain pub- community last V eel: by resigning. there has be on an accumulation of irrita-

lic expenditure . _ . I cannot hold out any Frederickson, 56. has run America's main tions—in {articular over the govern-

hope of government funds being made medical research or raise tion for six merits failure to ﬁll the vacancy left by

available,” he said. years. lie said “'d'nvustrative burdens" Dr Robert I. Levy director of the heart
institute. leVy announced his resignation
three months ago. but the government
> has Vet to appoint a selection committee
for a successor, citing the present freeze

FRAI‘ had caused him’ to leave and told a
on recruitment as a reason for the delay.

yum: .fﬁqmrﬁ
{LLL1LL taLLLLL‘e

€11 eitporiments
also culture human skin.
Each laboratory will have
the same collection of
about 100 chemicals of
known toxicity to animals,
which the researchers will
use to “poison” the cell
lines. By independently
assessing the action of
those substances on the
cell lines, and comparing
notes after a trial period,
the researchers hope to
be able to draw up a work-
able'code for tests using
alternatives, which should
work in any laboratory.
L One project will study
“ the action of hepatocvtes
(liver cells) both as cells that activate
toxic chemicals and as targets of toxic
.chemicals. One of the problems facing
researchers trying to develop alter-
natives to animals is to develop culture
conditions in which the enzymes that
break down chemicals in the body can
still survive.
The whole £200 000 project involves re-
searchers at the Huntingdon Research
Centre, Surrey University, the University

rlmn cf

W“: at

‘1

~:r “¢I‘: .-

rm

1:1“

‘31.,“

.M Lu, ,. 'ny

1"“‘l5

I! a”!

#911 ' “- 4 ‘ '1 M‘m
mww ..'

L 1-1

v. t ' 3321:2931

. Q: -‘.

Tun. . 1.-...“532 “u a.“ '1- .

- A‘ A—«>"‘.-LA 'Lr ~— ' .ch.A._

IRAME says these rats could be 1 placed by cell cultures

 

 

 

 

tive for industry to develop new, alter-
native, techniques on its own.

The Conserve tive Party promised to
reform the law on animal experiments—-
Lhich are still controlled by the Cruelty
to Animals'JAct of IBIS-“in its election
manifesto of 1979 with the words: “We
shall update . . . the legislation on experi-
ments on live animals”. But the govern
ment has yet to carry out its pledge.

{The fund has already spent 18 months
dzewing up a of testing
. dures in tor: colog y, which highlights
areas where there is room for improve-
1C nent It will publish its ﬁndings next
year as the basis for a “new approach to
toxicology testing that will be accepted
by regulatory authorities and restore the
scientiﬁc initiative to tosicologists,” “ ac-
cording to Lesley Sergeant, FRAME’S
scientiﬁc officer.

The fund has set up ﬁve research
groups to investigate alternatives to
animal tests, such as cells and organs in
culture. Each group will maintain cell

‘ V‘nr—r‘

\

L. '- ’ ‘ "‘ A'
__
”Ac, L'f‘y'ﬂ‘ iwnr-r’P-v‘w- L ,

-A‘.

Pluttuxghunu, SL {IUSV 'chu
Medical School and the London Hospital
Medical College. The management of the
Huntingdon Research Centre, a private
organisation will fund the research car-
ried out there, but the ﬁnancing of the
other four groups is more precarioussa
Meanwhile, the Wellcome Foundation
has demonstrated a new method of
scrtcning new anti-malarial compounds
on human blood cells instead of live
mice. The blood is from outdated trans-
fusion stocks, and apart from being
cheaper than keeping animals is far

1
m‘ ‘3‘." Ixuup‘

nab-1' '
5% L

L "-.

n. a, ”‘7‘5Uurﬂf

t.
a

7
r

3“
1‘-hmﬂ.a’. ,3 “Ar.

L

 

 

dB is not, however, particularly

disappointed by the government’s re- crowdedr meeting of stall at NI IH on 19

w tier Bill Annett of the fund said; “Its June that he wanted to go ha ck to re-

Lly ‘7 1e fir st shot Were going to make .‘~search. Frederickson is an expert of
blood lipids.

noise, it’s 3 really all we can do.”

The fund was founded-in 13-39 and
until rcccntly has kept a low proﬁle.
“We have been isolated from the more
radical groups . . . we didn’t want to be
labelled as an animal v‘rlfare group,"
one member said,“ al‘Ll‘orl 1gb we re chang—
ing that new."

The fund‘s main tazge is toxicity test-
ing, one of the most centre'ersial areas
of e Li1LLLlexpeﬁ-1tnenia ion It claims that
the number of animal tests is still in-
creasing, and that there is little incen~

 

lie intends to become a visiting scholar
at the National Academy of Sciences, but
this is only temporary until he can make
long~terrn plans.

Although . Frederickson’s announce-
ment ' was a surprise when it came. it.
Was not totally on ex; acted One member
of staff said: “It’s a strenoo 1s job.
and I think he felt that Lie had been worn
down to the void 11“ .cre he just didnt
have any more ideas. " ‘

Although tl : jcb of 1, wt ctoL is a (711.17.?

-

Likewise, ro othing has betn done to
ﬁnd a permanent replacement for the
deputy director of scic nce, Dr Robert F.
Goldberger Other major vacancies that
are likely to appear include the director
of the child health institute, and deputy
director of the Nlll' 5 clinical centre.

“Given all these va cancies the timing
of Dr Fredericksons departure is most
unfortunate.” aid Dr John F. Sherman,
a for mer deputy director of the NIH.
“’lts not dis :lecr, but it' 5 Very serious" .0

- I, t

 

1‘3LYWT‘h-PU"?:Jt‘L-r "‘;'!.-:'~"; 1' n t f "' W“, V“; " L”. "

x.
1-.“

v ‘

 




Animal protection lawszTime is short

By KIMBERLY BARTLETT

The problem with passing humane legislation is
that the general public is usually unaware of the
abuses. When people become aware of animal cruel-
ty, there is always a public outcry. But often those
instances that are reported are isolated, albeit sensa-
tional, cases involving the mistreatment of domestic
animals by individuals. The greatest amount of ani~
mal cruelty, however, is institutionalized and out of
public view. It is perpetrated by businesses, corpora-
tions and organizations which have a vested interest
in the exploitation of animals.

There are two bills before Congress which, if;
passed, would eliminate a great deal of animal mis-
ery. One (S2389/HR1797) proposes to outlaw steel-jaw
leghold traps used for catching fur-bearing animals
or predators. Animals caught in these barbaric de-
vices suffer broken bones and torn ﬂesh. Many die
from shock, starvation and attacks from predators
before the trapper returns. Non-target species (in-
cluding pets) are often caught. Such animals may be
set free, but because or the loss of limbs from the
wounds, they usually do not survive.

The proposed legislation -— similar to laws in over
60 foreign countries and seVeral of our own states --
would permit animals to be caught in less painful and

The Houston Post/Fri., Sept. 21, 1984 it

damaging traps, and would not materially alter trap-
ping practices. But even though it is a relatively mild
bill, it has been strongly opposed by trapping organi-
zations, the fur industry and, of course, manufactur-
ers of the traps.

Another important and much needed piece of legis-
lation would eliminate some of the suffering experi-
enced by laboratory animals.

Each year in the United States an estimated 60
million animals are sacrificed in the pursuit of scien-
tific knowledge, and 4 billion federal tax dollars sup-
port the effort.

Many of the experiments inflict severe pain or
psychological distress on the animal victims with
little prospect of significant benefits for humanity.
Much of the research is done without the use. of pain-
killers or anesthetics. Instead of anesthesia, animals
are sometimes given paralyzing drugs which allow
them to feel pain, but which prevent them from mov-
ing or crying out. Thus, the researcher is able to
ignore the animal’s agony. Most states (including
Texas) exempt researchers from anti—cruelty laws,
and animals may be legally burned, frozen, blinded,

irradiated, battered, shocked, traumatized, mutilat- ‘

ed, drugged, isolated, poisoned or starved. ‘
The bill now pending in Congress (8657/HR5725)
would not in any way end the use of animals in

 

 

Bill to outlaw the leghold trap

is stalled in Congress

Henry A. waxman (D., Calif), and
the bill’s chief sponsor, Rep. Clar-
ence D. Lon-g '(D., Md), who refers to

1

By Deborah Lawson

Special to The Inquirer

A bill in Congress that would out-
law nationally the gtgelﬁaw le -
hgldtm which has been IBanned in
most Western countries and several
states, appears to be trapped in com-
mittee for this session. A Spokesman
for the House subcommittee on
health and the environment, Which
held hearings on the bill in August,
said that no action was expected be-

fore Congress adjou‘rns.
At the hearings, witnesses for the

nation’s estimated half-million fur
trappers testified that such a law
would cause them economic harm.
Supporters of the legislation include
many hunters whose_<_i_og_s_have been
severely injured in, the devices.

Studies here and in other cater.

tries indicate that alternative snares
serve trappers' purposes ‘eqil’ally
well. For example, since. 1923 when
the leghold trap was banned in Flori-
da, the state has recorded its highest
harvest of fur bearers.

The battle for passage is being led
by the subcommittee chairman, Rep.

the steel-jaw leghold trap as “the
most inhumane form of capturing
animals.” The bill now needs support
from the full Committee on Energy
and Commerce, whose local mem.
bers include Rep. Doug-Walgren (1).,
Pa), Rep. Don Ritter (R., Re), Rep.
James J. Florio- (1)., NJ.) and Rep.
Matthew J. Rinaldo (R., N.J.). Letters
eXpi’essing your opinion on the
measure can be addressed to them at
the House of Representatives, Wash-
ington, D.C. 20515.

PHlLADELPi-iili iiiilliiilER

PHILADELPHiA, PA
D. 533,176 SUN. 994,965
SAT. 465,845

SEP 30 l9t4

 

 

scientific experiments, but would prevent needless
suffering. It would require the use of pain-relieving
drugs whenever possible, provide euthanasia when
needed, and prohibit the repeated use of the same

animal in different experiments. It would require ex-

perimenters to certify that they had considered other
methods of research before settling on the testing of
live animals, and every institution using laboratory
animals would have to appoint a committee to review
all experiments. Protection would be given to em-
ployees who report violations of'humane regulations.
It would also estabish an information service for re-
searchers to avoid unintended duplication of experi-
ments which could save millions of federal dollars.

The research community repeatedly claims that
laboratory animals are given humane treatment, but
at the same time they lobby against legislation that
would ensure such care. Despite the assurances,
those who have inspected laboratories state that
there is a great deal of pointless suffering in experi-
ments. Although abuses are generally kept secret,
there are a number of well-documented examples of
outrageous cruelty. .

A newspaper reporter visiting the hospital labora
tory at the University of Florida recently discovered
a dog with an incision open and its entrails exposed.
A group of California humane societies have filed suit

.-', . “.Liatnford University and Palo Alto Veterans

Administration Hospital for mistreatment of a lab
dog who was found‘collapsed in the doorway of their
research laboratory by a medical student. The dog
was shaking and coughing, and had deep infected
wounds on all legs. Bone was exposed on one leg, and
stitches had split open on a surgical incision in the
groin. The dog was taken by the student to an emer-
gency clinic where a veterinarian euthanized it. An
autopsy revealed that the animal was suffering from
advanced pneumonia and dehydration, and the intes»
tinal tract was empty.

Time is running out in this session for the passage
of laws to protect animals. It seems that money,
instead of ethics or logic, sets the legislative pace,
and there are many of special interest groups who
profit from the misuse of animals.

Bartlett, an office manager In Houston, is on animal :1ng advocate.

 




Cruelty needn’t be

1984

September 19,

r...‘
{U
C:
Ll
:3
O
"J
(l)
(U
fr-Y:
:3

“5.
-3
,__1
'H
2

a trapper’s tool

US.Rep. Clarence Long (D-Md.) calls it “the
most inhumane form of capturing animals.” The
leghold trap is worse than inhumane; it’s barbaric.

These steel-jaw snares are set by trappers to
catch fur-bearing animals. But the devices also
grab cats, dogs, eagles -- any creature that wan-
ders into the trap. Sometimes the animals remain
ensnared for days and become so desperate that

they chew off their own legs.

Congressman Long has proposed legislation to
outlaw the leghold trap. His bill would, amOiig
other things, prohibit interstate and foreign com-
merce in steel-jaw traps and in the pelts of animals

caught in the devices.

catch and eat their prey.

sign the leghold to the junk heap.

The trapping industry has howled in protest,
claiming the traps are essential to their livelihood.
But trapping survives in the 59 countries where
steel traps have been outlawed. As for the argu-
ment that leghold traps are no more inhumane
than nature’s own predators, anyone who has ever
watched an owl or a cougar bear down on a victim
knows the efficiency with which most predators

if trappers were looking for a maﬁa dramatize
human cruelty to animals, they could hardly have
chosen a better device than the leghold trap that
they defend so tenaciously. Congress ought to con-

eel -J aw Traps Must Go

stéel-ja’wleghold traps, and
they are the most sadistic invention man has
inflicted upon other living creatures. These
devices snap shut quickly on the helpless vic-
tim, and hold it there until dleash. td' . k

But many of these anima s o no 1e quic -
ly, as the trappers would have you believe.
They die in great pain, or from starvation or
exposure because no one comes to release
them from the trap. Escape only comes to
those who must practice a hideous self-muti-
lation by chewing off their paws or legs in
order to free themselves.

And trappers don’t just catch wild animals.
Children are caught, and people’s pets. Add
birds to the list, including American bald ea-
gles. A representative for a group of hounds-
men testified in Congress against ”the steel-
jaw trapsbecause hunters lose their dogs in
them. Sometimes hunters get caught.

Federal legislation pending before a sub-
committee of the House Energy Committee
would outlaw interstate shipment of leghold
traps and prohibit sale of the fur and animals
caught in them. That effectively would end
the legal use of these grisly devices. It ought
to be supported by anyone who is opposed to

suffering.

The legislation would not ban all trapping.
but simply require that more humane traps
be used. That already is the case in a number
of other countries, including some with im-

portant fur centers. There is no reason why it

shouldn’t also be true here, except for the lob-
bying of the fur industry.

The states are not the solution to banning
steel-jaw traps. The Society for Protective
Animal Legislation points out that 22 states do
not limit the size of the traps, and 28 states
permit traps with teeth. And some states do
not require trappers to check the traps on a
frequent basis; besides, who is to know if they
do or don’t?

The best way to get at this is by federal law.
The absurdity of the arguments for continued
use of these devices was expressed by a rep-
resentative of the American fur industry. He
was quoted as telling congressmen that it
isn’t possible to know if an animal feels pain.

We doubt if people who think that way have
much compassion for the animals they are
trapping. All the more reasons for Congress
to do the humane thing and get rid of these
hideous devices.

gating ﬁnm naming aim

73' (HS

V861

 

 

SILDUIS POST-DISPATCH

Monday, September 17, 1984

No Reason To Keep Barbaric Traps

We urge Rep. Henry Waxman of
California to hold a markup promptly on
H.R. 1797, legislation that would bar
interstate and foreign commerce in steel-
jaw leghold traps and in the for of animals
snared in them. Contrary to the implication
of some testimony before his subcommittee
on health and the environment, this
legislation would not be the end of
commercial trapping.

It would make illegal the use of a
particularly barbaric form of trapping. The
horror stories of pets, and even people,

being caught in the painful devices are well
known. Trapped animals may bleed to
death or may chew off a paw to escape
from the steel jaws. More humane
alternatives, such as the legsnare, can and
should be used? According to Prof. Jan
Englund of the Swedish Museum of Natural

History, the massive injuries caused by the
steel-jaw trap are dramatically reduced
when the legsnare is substituted.

Data from Sweden and from the other 58
countries that ban the steel-jaw leghold trap
not only show alternatives but demonstrate

that the fur trade and wildlife management
are not hurt by the ban. This is also borne
out by evidence from states that have
banned the leghold trap. According to Rep.
George E. Brown Jr. of California, since
Florida made leghold traps illegal in 1973,
that state has recorded its highest harvest
of fur-bearing animals.

There are now no size limitations on
steel traps in 22 states, and teeth may be
legally fitted into steel traps in 28. The steel-
jaw leghold trap is a barbaric anachronism
that ought to be done away with in favor of
more humane alternatives.

 




 

 

.4...

£315.22.” mg... r ~ .

. ,- :.-.

<1? ‘3‘. “ink-ﬁr, ”- -
., '0‘ ‘ ‘ 2

2 :2

k..- .1)!"
Randy Winter
Contributing Writer

For the past week I have been looking
into the issue of animal rights, with all its
nuances and ramifications. I am now more
confused than when I began (which hardly
seemed possible). One thing, however, is
clear. The movement is becoming more
popular, somewhat more mainstream, and it
is spreading.

A study commissioned by Harvard
University in 1982 reported that the ,
movement could soon “constitute a- powerful
political force.” That prediction has. I think.
proved accurate. Estimates vary, but most ’
authorities would concede that it now in-
volves “millions” of Americans.

Who are all these people? Where do they
come from? Why do they think the way they
do? And what are they doing to promote
their cause?

The people come from all walks of life,
being everything from janitors and day-
labors to lawyers, psychologists and
students. They are primarily urbanites, and
they are concentrated, for the most part, on
the east and west coasts. The groups they
have founded andsupport (with emphasis

varying from organization to ganization)
range from the old-line Nati nal Anti-
Vivisection Society and Humane Society to
the Committee to Abolish Sport Hunting, the
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals, and the highly militant Animal
Liberation Front. Others are: Urban
Gorillas; Band of Mercy; People for Ethical
Treatment of Animals; Friends of Animals;
Defenders of Wildlife; and the Attorneys for
Animal Rights. And there are more, many
with swelling memberships. (The Humane
Society, with an estimated membership of
200,000, has doubled in size in the last five
years)

As to the philosophical reasoning behind
the movement as a whole, it is, as one would
suspect, nearly as diverse as the individuals
involved; This is a very cloudy issue—as
most moral issues are—and it will handily
accommodate almost any logical (and most
illogical) lines of moral reasoning. Per-
sonally, I found a few of the arguments to be
quite eloquent, raising some valid questions

a

/

 

 

‘0
o .0
30.". .. . .zo ' - . .0..- "on O
..' n. u... . o. - .
, O 'a .- u '
u '0.
- o

‘n a ' ., . n , .
... _'..! .. 30". .a-... .
£:~'-'-‘“'."‘u. . ' o 3-" i.."- a ..' I". ' ’1' -' H ’
~‘p‘l}.'..{ 'o- ; .- ' . .-'. to: s ‘9 ._ '.
0".0 to . ._. f0 "" ‘ ' ‘l_ D 0. I . ' 0

0 . '- 0 '

I C ' I.

.

22.233:

.2': V . '- o.
.— U ‘.
\ 0.. ,‘. 3w

. . 0 '

\ ' l_-._.d-.
~'. I : i 'I'-
' . .

‘ 00-...

70'.

 

and concerns; and others to be insipidly
stupid. They do cover the range.

In a‘broad sense, the animal rights
movement traces its origin to a British
cleric, Humphrey Primatt, who in 1776
observed that “pain is pain, whether it is
inflicted on man or beast.” But the
movement got new direction and vitality two
centuries later when Peter Singer, a
professor of philosophy at Australian
National University published “Animal
Liberation.” This controversial
book—equating exploitation of animals with
slavery—is still regarded as the landmark
work in the field by animal rights ad-
vocates. Singer, as an author, is generally
eloquent, sometimes convincing and always
forceful. (And, I think, oftentimes wrong, as
I will argue later.) He exposes and con- '
demns laboratory procedures in which
rabbits are blinded by cosmetics placed in
their eyes to test for irritation. He details
factory-farm methods withthe inherent
abuses of animals (yes, the animals are
being reared solely for slaughter, he argues,
but that is not the point—i". is the quality of
life experienced by the animal up to that
time that matters most). And he finds those

- wildlife management practices focused on";

producing a surplus for hunters and
fishermen inexcusable.

Singer’s book has done much to raise
human consciousness with respect to at-
titude and treatment of other animals—and
with one quick look at our record, it’s ap-
parent we could use some of that. The great
body of Western thought has generally been
unkind, to say the least, in considering the
welfare of animals. The Judeo-Christian
ethic has traditionally regarded other
animals as mere automatons, tools to be
used in providing labor, food, clothing,
transport, or as diversion as pets, hunting
prey or sport—otherwise having no innate
worth or standing. This is largely due to a
biased interpretation of Genesis 1:28, where
man is given “dominion” over every ’
creature in the air, seaand on land.
Theologians, moralists and philosophers
have used this Divine direction, and‘a
biased interpretation of other bibilical
Passages, to historically justify a wide array
of cruel and abusive acts directed against

 

 

 

 

 

 

"Recently, animal rights

groups have declared the

use of animals in research

to be exploitation and

have placed a high priority

on its elimination. The
consequences...would be
catastrophic and would
herald the end of biomedical
research as we know it."

animals. (I would encourage those who
embrace that idealogy to try Ecclesiastes
iii:9; Exodus xxiii:5 and 12; Deuteronomy
xxiiz4 or xxvz4; or Proverbs xii:10; or
scores of other passages that exhort man to
show compassion to animals.)

In any case, today’s sermon aside, it
must be acknowledged that our species, and
our culture specifically, have shown a rash
disregard for the welfare of other
bloods—both as individuals and as species.
The examples overload the mind and
stagger the sense of cultural equilibrium.
Homo sapien, the “thinking animal,” has
obviously not been putting much time into
this matter. And that, then, is the primary
value of the current animal rights
movement; it is focusing some attention on
a subject that sorely needs and deserves it.

On the other hand, taken in context of
its full scope of activities, the legitimate
question arises as to whether the movement
may be doing more harm than good. Some
of the more extreme elements—and even the
moderates on occasion—have pushed what
is a seemingly logical and worthwhile line of

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

reasoning to the far corner of ludicrous
nullification and blatant misanthropism.
This action has a tendency to convince
mainstream society to dismiss the issue
outright—along with all other domestic
animal, wildlife and environmental con—

- cerns.

For example, “Do no harm to animals,”
is one of the slogans of the Animal
Liberation Front (ALF). Supposedly,
humans are included in that, yet the group
has destroyed thousands of dollars worth of
prOperty and has crippled important
biomedical research. (They are one of the

' m u t a. n1. 1"” . Lyn-aw :- NJ.-. (’5'?! , "l".*"‘"' ‘- -.. 3:1' .7» I- '
gI'O'dpb 'iiOtOi luuS AU: UL cdfuy 7"“in Tweet? (.14

labs and stealing test m and trashing '
equipment.) “We’re out to cause maximum
property damage to intercept the machinery
of death,” one member is quoted as saying.
Other members recently spray-painted a
New York synagogue with a slogan com—
paring animal killing to the Nazi holocaust.
In the scientific research establishment,
where animal models have been in-
dispensable to progress of biomedical
studies, animals rights activists have acted
inside as well as outside the law to hamper
and impede important work. There are
without doubt cases of animal abuse and .
mistreatment in the system. These should
be found and corrected, and indeed, that is
happening. Moreover, due to economic
pressures, the use of animals in research is
already declining across the country. When
possible, it is usually cheaper to use com-
puter models or other “lower” life-forms.
But total elimination of laboratory animals,
which is what many animal rights group
advocate, is neither possible nor necessary.
All things considered, it would, in fact, be
inhumane in the strictest sense of that word.
As a result of intense lobbying, amen- .
dments to the Animal Welfare Act (co- -,
sponsored by Senator Robert Dole) were
passed with the 1985 farm bill. Some were , ..
needed and were justified; othgg§..,,.h.0i¥£yer, ..
weretgnctignally impractical and '
prohibitively costly to institute. Taken in
cbncert with Gramm-Rudman cost-cutting,
these new measures might very well ;
eliminate important programs and projects ;
within the biomedical research com- " a
See No. l, Page C5 A , "
/

 

 




 

 

 

 

lettimmmtl, KS
.. MERCURY
a. 13,095 3. 13,930

SEP 7 1986

I

‘4

Animal Ri

 

 

 

. 522-77.?" . " °
. .I v . 6’ '2 a" . .
4, ml

 

" .

5.. ,s'if':;'.‘.’”'l' . I“

 

 

Continued from Page C1 A

u
A
_r

munity—and already have, in

some cases. The new regulations -

may even preclude some in-
stitutions from taking part
altogether. William Gay,
director of the Animal Resources

stitute of Health, offers this

perspective: “Recently, animal
rights groups have declared the

use of animals in research to be ,

exploitation and have placed a
high priority on its elimination.
The consequences of such an
action, were it to be successful,
would be catastrophic and would
herald the end of biomedical
research as we know it.”

With regard to the welfare of
wild animals, the movement has
also had some adverse impacts.
Backfires are, in fact, quite
common. It was the Fund for
Animals, headed by Cleveland
Amory, which exerted so much

pressure on the Florida Game
and Freshwater Fish Com-
mission two years ago that the
agency backed off of a proposed
permit _ hunt which had been
scheduled for the Everglades to
reduce a deer herd that had been
stranded and was eating itself to

’ death. Had the hunt been held,
Program of the National In-

the herd would surely have been

 

 

reduced, but it would have

survived—which was the general 2

idea, of course.

But the hunt was not held. ;
Amory and his group—not known .l
press$
coverage—had a different tact in ,
mind. They moved in with air- l

for being shy of

boats and capture nets, planning
to catch the deer and move them

elsewhere. In two days they M

caught two deer, one of which
died of shock (and no telling how
many others suffered and died

. due to the stress of being

harassed by airboats—but not
captured). Amory and his group
then gave up the task as im-
possible, which is exactly what
any knowledgable wildlifer could
have told them at the outset, had
they st00ped so low as to ask.

The deer herd subsequently
died, almost to the last animal,
from starvation. Fa‘r fewer
animals survived than if hunters
had been allowed to thin the
herd, and the habitat, of course,
suffered as well—further

' hampering any future population

recovery. (Funds for Animals’
literature naturally carried none
of these final details, though they
did display photos of the group
“rescuing’ ’ the two deer.)

In the western U.S., the animal
rights advocates-have also had
much to do with wreaking
ecological havoc in the name of
individual animal rights. Feral
horses and burros are crowding
out native species and are
grinding the native vegetative
food and cover down into sterile
dust. The “adopt a horse” (or

“Animal rights groups
are raising some valid
questions, but worrying
about the rights of
individual animals is
not what we should
be devoting our
energy to when
entire species are in
danger of dying off
because their habitat

is disappearing."

burro) program is a dismal
failure, but animal rights groups
refuse to let any of the animals
be eliminated. The price is, and
will be paid in the future—by the
biome and ecosystem, by the
individual animals of the com-
peting native species, by the
individual horses and burros, by
all species living there, and
eventually, by us.

In practical terms, then, it
seems to me that the animal
rights movement has done more
harm than good to this point.
Their thinking tends to be sim-
plistic and idealistic. Nature is
neither. Good intentions based on
ignorance can be just as
damaging as point-blank
malevolence. Chris Wille of the
National Audubon Society
probably uts the movement in
its best

sh d be devoting our energy to
en entire species are

)3

ight when . he says, .
“Animal rights groups are
raising some valid questions, but
worrying about the rights ofiffié.
yidual animals is not what we “5:

in
danger of dying off because their .-

M habitat is disappearing.”

 

.1

 




(am/[3A1 727mm}! .10} nogmtapad rammed/11f) [0 717.131199-[122/31335 )

'lOZEI'I'I/V "'Jg'g "D'W ‘amzzH '41 '3 10/1214] [6/ wax maN ‘ajmglnq (am/[5341 [12111]sz ’Jllaplfald 35/1 01 pamajppv 1.104292]

S'IVWINV NO SlNElWIEEIdXEI :IO "IOHlNOD
EDHJO EIWOH NO SiSIiNElDS HSLLIEIEI :IO SNOINldO

 




 

In connection with Bill 8.3570, introduced by Senator
Cooper and others in the U.S. Senate and providing for
the control of experiments on animals, and in View of
propaganda to the effect that Home Ofﬁce control frus-
trates medical research in Britain, the following questions
were addressed by Dr. E. Hindle, F.R.S., President of
UFAW, to biological Fellows of the Royal Society and by

myself to a few other British scientists:

1. Do you consider that in consequence of the system

of licensing and inspection administered by the Home
Ofﬁce, medical research of the highest quality cannot be

carried out in Britain?

2. Would you prefer Home Ofﬁce control to be
abolished, so that persons without scientiﬁc training
would be permitted to experiment on animals without
supervision ?

3. Have you in your experience found that the
British system seriously frustrates legitimate research?

In all, 88 scientists, mostly Fellows of the Royal Society,
replied to these questions. Of these only one felt frus-
trated by Home Ofﬁce control. Twenty-one simply an-
swered “No” to each question; sixty-six answered "No”
and added comments, most of which strongly reinforced
their support for the British system, though there were a
few minor criticisms on matters of detail.

Certain minor amendments of our law and practice, not
involving questions of principle and not relevant to the
Cooper Bill, might be desirable, but there can be no doubt
that Home Ofﬁce control is a great success. All of these
supporters of Home Ofﬁce control are experimental ani-
mal biologists with the exception of two physicists, Sir
Edward Appleton and Sir George Thomson, and one
botanist, Sir Edward Salisbury, formerly Biological Secre-
tary of the Royal Society, who were approached in view
of their exceptionally wide acquaintance with research and
researchers in many disciplines. Among medical research
workers who have written to support Home Ofﬁce control
are such men as Prof. Alexander Haddow, F.R.S., Direc-
tor of the Chester Beatty Research Institute; Prof. F. A. E.
Crew, F.R.S., formerly Professor of Public Health in the
University of Edinburgh; Prof. H. A. Krebs, F.R.S.,, Nobel
Prizeman; Sir Bryan Matthews, F.R.S., Professor of Physi-
ology in the University of Cambridge and a Vice-President
of the Royal Society in 1957; Prof. P. B. Medawar, F.R.S.,
Nobel Prizeman and Director elect of the National Insti-
tute of Medical Research at Mill Hill; Dr. G. F. Marrian,
F.R.S., Director of the Imperial Cancer Research Fund;

 

Prof. Sir James Paterson Ross, Past President of the Royal
College of Surgeons; Lord Boyd Orr, F .R..S., ﬁrst Director--
General of the United Nations Food and Agricultural.
Organization, and formerly Director of the Rowett Re--
search Institute; Sir Francis Walshe, F.R.S., for sixteen
years Editor of Brain; Sir William Slater, F.R.S., Secretary
of the Agricultural Research Council; and Dr. W. R.
Wooldridge, Founder and Director of the Animal Health
Trust.

Dr. Leonard Colebrook, F.R.S., wrote: "I am very glad
indeed that we have control by the Home Ofﬁce and I '
should be very sorry to see it abolished”. Sir Francis
Walshe, F.R.S., wrote: “A wide familiarity with the
literature of experimental neuro-physiology leads me to-
think that in other countries where no such rational mode
of control is used, not a few futile and unnecessarily pain-
ful animal experiments are carried out, by persons not
always qualiﬁed to do them”. Prof. A. T. Phillipson,
Deputy Director of the Rowett Research Institute, wrote:
”I am glad to hear. the Americans are trying to introduce
a Bill similar to our Home Ofﬁce Act. . . . The existence
of the Act makes people think a bit harder before starting
an experiment that needs a special licence”. Prof. H. A.
Krebs, F.R.S., a Nobel Prizeman, wrote: ”I am very glad
indeed to support a move to introduce in the United States
legislation on animal welfare similar to that operating in
Great Britain. My answer to all three questions which
you formulate at the end of your letter is a simple ‘no”’
Prof. A. Haddow, F.R.S., Director of the Chester Beatty
Cancer Research Institute, wrote: ”I have, of course, been
most interested to learn of the American Bill, and sorry to
hear of the opposition to it”. Mr. R. T. Charles, of the
Pollards Wood Cancer Researh Station and Shell Research
Ltd., wrote: ”I believe any country can model its vivisec-
tion laws with safety along our pattern in the UK”. I
may add the opinion of Sir Edward Salisbury, F.R.S., who,
though a botanist, has a wide acquaintance with research
workers in many ﬁelds and was formerly Biological Secre-
tary of the Royal Society. He wrote: "I think that it
should be obvious to all who have the real advancement of
knowledge at heart that to allow the inexperienced to carry
out experiments under any other conditions is inexclusably
bad training”.

I now turn to another aspect of the subject. Everything
depends on the way in which legislation of this kind is
administered, and on the quality of thOSe inspectors or
others who administer it. Sir George Thomson, F.R.S.,
Nobel Prizeman and this year’s President of the British
Association for the Advancement of Science, though he is




a physicist, has such wide connections in the scientiﬁc
world that his opinion must carry weight. He: wrote: "Ob-
viously my replies to your queries are based on second-
hand information, but I can honestly say that I have never
heard any serious criticism of the present system of control
from medical research workers or, indeed, from those
doing research on other forms of biology. My answer to
your three questions is therefore 'No’ in each case”. A
similar reply was sent by another Nobel Prizeman in
Physics, Sir Edward Appleton, Principal of the University
of Edinburgh and a Past President of the British Associa-
tion etc. etc.

Sir John Boyd, F.R.S., Past President of the Royal .So-
ciety of Tropical Medicine, wrote: "As far as my expe-
rience goes I have found the Home Ofﬁce inspectors
reasonable and helpful and I have never suffered from
obstruction of any kind. It is true that I have heard occa-
sional reports to the contrary, but I have been left, with
the impression that the difﬁculties arose from impatience
and a tendency to disregard the law on the part of the
licensees and not from any desire of the inspector to in-
terfere with legitimate activities”. Prof. R. J. Harrison, of
the London Hospital Medical College, wrote: "On two
important occasions the Home Ofﬁce made suggestions of
the very greatest help and signiﬁcance which materially
increased the standard of the research and the importance
of the results”. Prof. Hamilton Hartridge, F.R.S., the
physiologist, wrote: "I always found the Home Ofﬁce and
its inspectors co-operative and helpful. There were oc-
casions when their advice was opportune and invaluable”.
Sir John Hammond, F.R.S., of the Cambridge School of
Agriculture, wrote of Home Ofﬁce Control — ”It forces
us to train our young research workers efﬁciently”. Prof.
Alexander Haddow wrote that the Home Ofﬁce system
"provides an invaluable guarantee of responsible stand-
ards”. Prof. David Keilin, F.R.S., of the Molteno Insti-
tute, Cambridge, answered the question whether the British
system frustrates legitimate research .thus: “Just the op-
posite, it compels the worker to plan and to carry out his
experiments with more care. This greatly improves the
quality of the research and is of beneﬁt to the research
worker himself”. Dr. John F. Loutit, Director of the
Radiobiological Research Unit at Harwell, wrote that Home
Ofﬁce control ”acts as a stimulus to us to have the highest
quality of animal care and maintenance, which we consider
to be an essential part of a good biological experiment”.
Dr. R. J. C. Harris, Head of the Division of Experimental
Biology and Virology of the Imperial Cancer Research
Fund, wrote: ”I would ﬁght to preserve the Home Ofﬁcer
control of animal experiments (as it is now administered)

because there. is no doubt that animal work carried on
without such conditions is liable to be fruitless. On the
contrary, I have found that the British system helps legit-
imate research because the advice of the Home Ofﬁce In-
spectors is available when one is in any doubt about the
conditions .etc. which are optimum for the particular work
one. has in hand”. Sir Francis Walshe wrote: “I regard
the- British practice as being in the best interests both of
experimentalists and, of the animals they use.” Prof.
F. A. E. Crew, F.R.S., wrote: ”I have no hesitation what-
ever in- answering your questions. In my considered view
the system helps, as do also__the g inspectors. It facilitates
and does not impede or hinder”. To the question whether
he .wQuld prefer Home Ofﬁce control to be abolished he
replied: ”I most certainly would not. I would oppose such
a move with everything I have got . . . I think the ex-
perimental animal should be given protection. I do not
think. that just anybody should. be allowed to do just any-
thing with a. living creature”. Dr. Edward Hindle, F.R.S.,
wrote: ”I should be very sorry indeed to see any limita-
tion in the present system of control which has worked so
satisfactorily for more than three-quarters of a century”.
Dr. C. A. Hoare, F.R.S., of the. .Wellcome Laboratories of
Tropical Medicine, wrote: ”I believe that —— far from
hindering scientiﬁc investigations -— the system of licens-
ing and inspection adopted in Britain provides conditions
for research that are beyond reproach”. Prof. A. St. G.
Huggett, F.R.S., physiologist, wrote: “The Act of 1876
stopsthe frivolous but not the responsible worker”.

A number of our correspondents welcome the fact that
Home Ofﬁce control protects the experimenter as well as
the animal. This is because educated laymen know that
experimenters are not allowed to do just anything to ani-
mals, and I come ﬁnally to the question — what will be
the impact of the Cooper Bill on American laboratories if
it passes into law?

Of course, everything depends on the quality of the
inspectorate to be appointed. We have been able to ﬁnd
suitable personnel in Britain; let us assume, then, that the
American inspectors will be conscientious, humane, highly
intelligent, practical, and incorruptible, as our inspectors
are considered to be.

On this. assumption I venture to express a personal
opinion based partly on this correspondence and partly on
information from other sources. It is that the Cooper Bill,
if passed into law, would have the following effects:

(1) It would restrict experimentation on animals to

~ persons who are scientiﬁcally competent to carry it on;

 




 

 

(2) It would promote exchange of views among scien-
tists on ways in which suffering in the laboratory can be
reduced to a minimum;

(3) It would promote efﬁciency by focusing attention
on the statistical and other aspects of methodology;

(4) It would disallow experiments which are ethically
inadmissible.

As regards the last point, let us consider what happens
when a British scientist asks the Home Office for permis-
sion to use some new technique which looks as if it might
entail serious suffering. In the first place the Home Office,
with its scientiﬁc advisers, will try to suggest an alternative
technique which would be free from the disadvantage, and
usually this solves the problem. In the few instances in
which such an alternative cannot be found'the Home Office
has to consider, for one thing, the qualiﬁcations of the
applicant. A ﬁrst-rate scientist might be allowed to do
some things which would not be permitted to an inferior
one, but precautions to reduce suffering as much as possi-
ble would be required in any case. All that would be dis-
cussed with the applicant on an expert level, and so far
we have encountered one objection, which I will deal with
shortly. I do not reckon as an objection the following
remark made by Prof. O. E. Lowenstein (after saying ”a
wide range of medical research involving vivisection is
being carried out in Britain, and there is nothing to in-
terfere with the quality of this research provided a good
case has been made out for its necessity”) —— ”I myself

have had to give up a line of research in the past because
of difficulties in connection with the blinding of ﬁsh, but,
in View of the fact that there are many other things for
me to do, I do not feel seriously frustrated”. Again, Dr.
E. N. Willmer, F.R.S., wrote: ”I see no reason to believe
that the licensing system affects the quality of medical re-
search adversely. It may certainly prevent certain fields
from being investigated by methods which most of us
would ﬁnd repugnant, but other lines of investigation will

no doubt be found for those areas, which are in any case

small’ ’.

This brings me to that one of our correspondents who
would like to abolish Home Ofﬁce control. He wants to
carry out certain experiments on the brain and considers
that knowledge in this ﬁeld cannot be sufﬁciently got if the
Pain Rule is insisted on. Let us assume that he is right.
In any case, there are some kinds of knowledge which
cannot be got without resort to unethical methods, such
as lethal experiments on human prisoners. The general
tenor of the letters we have received is, with that one
possible exception, in agreement with the following re-
mark made by that distinguished bacteriologist Dr. Leonard
Colebrook, F.R.S., who was. formerly on the staff of the
Medical Research Council: ”I suppose most scientiﬁc peo~
ple who have any compassion would agree that there are
some experiments on animals which are not legitimate”.

C. W. HUME
25th January, 1961

 




 

 

 

{’3

_ .3 A .\
x431.—

CT

{I}

‘ O
L 37*- r: :r 3’
: ‘*;,\‘A.< .‘VIIJ;"

.7 47.1

» (3‘31

3
“3:45

1‘

1‘: ‘v. v

..'\ “4

"1 who

,3 c‘ ‘T“" ”‘7’ '
at“ 2 cumbda

-‘L-

‘
Q r

41'3.
L

:5

0385

,l v. ' \
has ‘ ’0'

F! V
L);

TLC?“

my:
3 i f 4.2

i1

:2

rs:

ale’s Slow exp

i

z")

the W

‘ J
3 » oh {wk fl. -
f.f_’:1z.{f:i.j

H}-

i
ght havered
t form. while

raped

a.

V}.-

qmns r1;

3.

blue 1

1.710113

»2 h
":7"

U

. La. 4.4;

7
y:

.
:“‘f"
‘1!

t

386333153811

her

ve rhyﬁ:

r1

aim.

‘jmb’s p1

LIL :

(“-3-

urge

,&

G

V

‘3 azrge.

t
O

3 {

n
vv— ‘u; “1/

.3.».‘. g. -441

r

 




 

Field markin

3 8/ 7
By ANITA MILLER
Staff Reporter

A field expeXment intended as a “teaching
tool” in an SWT ecology class has drawn the, fire
of some residents concerned about animal rights;
but university officials contend their objections
are unfounded.

At issue is a method of “field marking” rodents

. and some other small mammals used in popula-

éamtion studies. The technique involves clipping the
tip of a toe from captured animals, who are then
released into the wild and recaptured later as
part of a study to determine the number of such
animals in a given area.

The assignment appalled Carol Pruitt, a
science teacher at Waco’s University Middle
School who is enrolled in SWT to finish work on
her master’s degree. “This is only a teaching
tool, not cancer or polio research,” she said. “The
animals suffer unnecessary pain for no ulterior
motive. The only reason (for the exercise) is to
demonstrate this form of field marking.”

Pruitt and Fran Casey, president of the Pioneer

Animal Welfare Society (PAWS) said their objec-.

tion was not to the exercise itself, but the toe.
clipping. Both felt that alternative methods, for
example dye-marking, could be used.

However, the lab instructor who made the
assignment defended the practice, contending
that there are no proven alternatives.

“There are several points against other types ‘

of methods,” Chuck Harman explained. Two
techniques that had been used in the past, ear tag—
ging and ear notching, were abandoned “because
ears are often damaged in rodent fights.”

He said leg banding, although used with larger

Toe clipping opposed

animals, is inappropriate for rodents “because
the animal will often either chew off the band, or
chew off the banded leg.” Dye—marking, he said,
is equally hazardous. “Marks on rodents tend to
attract others to that area that might gnaw on the

. animal carrying the marker. ”

(

Harman said contrary to the claims of Pruitt
and Casey, the captured rodents are probably
“more traumatized by handling than by the pro—
cess of anesthetizing the toe and cutting off the

tip. ”

He said that the 1/8 of an inch clipped fmm the
toe has very little blood supply. “There is hardly
any bleeding at all in that particular area.” Pain
the animal experiences is also less due to the
lesser vascular supply, and is further diminished
by the use of a topical anesthetic, ethyl chloride,

. he explained.

Harman’s statements were backed up by Dr.
Edward L. Schneider, chairman of the Biology
Department at SWT. According to Schneider, the
toe clipping technique is “used in every universi-
ty throughout the United States and the world.”

Schneider also pointed out that people “should
keep in mind that this is a course for biology ma—
jors—who will be going out as professionals in
wildlife biology or ecology. They need to be made
aware of the techniques used.”

Agreeing with Schneider was Dr. David E.
Lemke, the associate professor of biology under
whose authority Harman works.

actually carry out experimental studies.

“If they go out into the field or job market, for

example into university-affiliated research,” he

_“t

“This is the ,i
standard preferred method for capture/recap—
ture type experiments. We attempt to provide
students with working knowledge about how to

g of rodents criticized

continued, “they will be expected to be aware of
and familiar with all techniques being used.”

Harman said the objection raised by Pruitt and
Casey is “The first I’ve ever run into,” but all
three men said they would be open to an alter-
native method of field marking if one is found.

“We would certainly give every consideration
to a (an alternate) technique that is feasible and
acceptable to authorities in the field,” Lemke
said.

But to Pruitt and Casey, the issue remains one
of “pain and maiming. ”

“We have to reason for ourselves, not accept
something just because it’s standard,” Pruitt
said. “We have to figure out for ourselves
whether it’s right or wrong.

“I like to be at peace with myself,” she con-
tinued. “When I see somethingth‘ ' can’t speak
for itself is suffering pain~ so ne needs to
speak for it. ”

Casey agreed. “All we’ re asking is that they
consider the pain of the living creatures, ” she
said. .

Ironically, the experiment assigned to Pruitt’s 2,
class was in fact never completed. Although the
traps were baited and set out for two nights, no
rodents were captured.

“It’s not a very good time of year or season,”
Harman admitted. “It’s been a hot and extremely
dry summer, and rodent populations are low.”

Conditions should improve for the fall and spr-
ing semesters, Harman said, and the ex»
periments will be carried out as planned.

In the meantime, Pruitt and Casey said they
will continue to be in contact with animal welfare
groups including the Humane Society of the .:
United States. 1 "

 




\

'Wgﬁ‘rmmaqm as ~ « ~

99m CONGRESS _
.R. 1809

'To end the use of steel jaw leghold traps on animals in the United States.

 

y Mal-4:54 “WC 7'- lit;

.IN THE HOUSE 'OF REPRESENTATIVES

MARCH 28,1985

Mr. LANTOS (for himself, Mr. SCHEUER, Mr. ACKERMAN, Mr. ADDAERO, Mr.
AKAKA, Mr. ANDERSON, Mr. ANNUNZIO, Mr. BARNES, Mr. BENNETT, Mr.
BERMAN, Mr. BOLAND, Mrs. BOXER, Mrs. BURTON of California, Mr.
CLAY, Mrs. COLLINS, Mr. COUOHLIN, Mr. CROCKETT, Mr. DARDEN, Mr.
DELLUMS, Mr. DONN'ELLY, Mr. DURRIN, Mr. DWYER of New Jersey, Mr.
' EDWARDS of Oklahoma, Mr. EDWARDS of California, Mr. FAUNTBOY, Mr.
FEICHAN, Mr. FOGLIETTA, Mr. FORD of Michigan, Mr. FRANK, Mr. GIR-
RONS, Mr. GREEN, Mr. GUARINI, Mr. HEFTEL of Hawaii, Mr. HOYEB, Mr.
JACOBS, Mr. KILDEE, Mr. LEHMAN of California, Mr. LEVIN of Michigan,
MI. LEVINE of California, Mr. LEWIS of Florida, Mr. MAVROULES, MI.
MARTINEZ, Mr. MCGRATH, Mr. MCKINNEY, Ms. MIKULSKI, Mr. MILLER of
California, Mr. MINETA, Mr. MITCHELL, Mr. MOAKLEY, Mr. MORRISON of
Washington, Mr. MRAZEK, Mr. PEPPER, Mr. PORTER, Mr. REID, Mr.
RODINO, Mrs. ROUKEMA, Mr. ROYBAL, Mr. RUSSO, Mrs. SCHROEDER, Mr.
SCHUMER, Mr. SEIBEBLING, Mr. SMITH of New Jersey, Mr. SMITH of Flor-
ida,,Mr. ST GERMAIN, Mr. STARK, Mr. SWIFT, Mr. TORRICELLI, Mr.
TOWNS, Mr. VENTO, Mr. WAXMAN, Mr. WHEAT, and Mr. ZSCHAU) intro-
duced the following bill; which was referred to the Committee on Energy
and Commerce

 

 

 

 

 

A BILL .

To end the use of steel jaw leghold traps on anirnals-in the
United States.

1 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representa-

2 tives of the United States of America in Congress assembled,

 




2
SECTION 1. DECLARATION OF POLICY.

It is the policy of the United States to end the needless

 

maiming and suffering inflicted upon animals through the use
of steel jaw leghold traps by. prohibiting the shipment in ‘
interstate or foreign commerce of such traps and of articles of
fur from animals that were trapped in such traps. I
SEC. 2'. DEFINITIONS.

- ' As used in this Act»-~

 

(1) The term “article of fur” means——

(A) any furskin bearing hair, raw or not
dressed, or dressed; or

(B) any article, however produced, that con—
sists in whole or part of any furskin.

For purposes of subparagraph (A), the terms “furskin”,

 

“raw or not dressed”, and “dressed” have the same
respective meanings that are given them in headnote 2
of subpart B of part 5 of schedule 1 of the Tariff
Schedules of the United States (19 U.S.C. 1202).

(2) The term “interstate or foreign commerce”
shall have the same meaning as that given to such
term in section 10 of title 18, United States Code.

(3) The term “import” means to!1and on, bring
into, or introduce into, any place subject to the juris-

diction of the United States, Whether or not such land-

 

ing, bringing, or introduction constitutes an importation

.‘OHR 1809 [ll

 




3

within the meaning of the customs laws of the United

H

States.

(4) The term i“.‘person”i..- includes any individual,

partnership, association, corporation, ‘trust, or any ofﬁ-
cer, employee, agent, department, or instrumentality of
the Federal Government or 'of any State or political

subdivision thereof, or any other entity subject to the

 

jurisdiction of the United States. ’

coco-amore-ww

(5) The term “Secretary” means the Secretary of i

the Interior.

HH
HO

(6) The term “steel jaw leghold trap” means any

spring-powered pan- or sear-activated device with two

H
[\D

opposing steel jaws which is designed to capture an

H
03

animal by snapping closed upon the animal’s limb or

l—li—t
014k

part thereof.

SEC. 3. PROHIBITED ACTS AND PENALTIES.

H
63

(a) No article of fur shall be imported, exported, or

t—t
.q

shipped in interstate or foreign commerce if anypart or por-

H
00

tion of such article is derived from an animal that was

MH
OQD

trapped in a steel jaw leghold‘trap.

[\9
5...;

(b) It is unlawful for any person knowingly—i ,

(1) to import, export, ship or receive any article of

[\9
NJ

fur in contravention of subsection (a);

 




”macadamia-cow

MMMMHHHHHHHHHH
wwwocooo-qcboitp-wwwo

4
(2) 'to deliver, carry, transport, or ship by any
means whatever, in interstate or foreign commerce,
.,..any steeljaw legholdtrap; 5 2‘: j
(3) to sell, receive, acquire, or purchase [any steel
jaw leghold trap that was delivered, carried, transport-
ed, or shipped in contravention of paragraph a (2); or
’ "(4) to violate . any regulation prescribed by the
Secretary under this section.

(0) Any person who knowingly commits an act which
violates subsection (a) or (b), or any regulation issued under
this section, shall, upon conviction for the first such violation,
be ﬁned not more than $1,000; and, upon conviction for the
second and each subsequent violation, be fined not more than
$5,000 and imprisoned for not more than two years.

SEC. 4. REWARDS.

The Secretary shallhpay an amount equal to half of the
fine paid to any person who furnishes information which leads
to a conviction of a criminal violation of any provision of this
Act or any regulation issued thereunder. Any ofﬁcer or em-
ployee of the United States or of any State or local govern-
ment who furnishes information or renders service in the per-

formance of his ofﬁcial duties is not eligible for payment

under this section.

 

a, ',-‘ ‘
in}. .
. _ . - Hf "‘ 2‘
. ' a" ‘ ~ "
.mc‘ -
’I it
,, ~,, s ,
. 9V '
f’f‘ ' I‘
, ' g l
, v n . u-
.7“ 1x ‘- ":
. xv’
. ‘ . tax, .
' . f" . ‘
, - ‘
. . g“
a - \
9‘ . ' _
.' .f,
-. n.
a ‘ 1
a» r»
4 31¢“ v"
. “‘47
‘ 1'5: 1.1, ' .
. , .
n‘lﬂ ' . .
I.
~ '1
i F
. C q
... , . L
. ’ .I . . - M‘I
* a: -. ,1
, . .
.‘ w '3
5 if "
.
, w p is
.
war -'
. m
.- .,
u” _ .
. .
4'». _ L
.7 , , 'q
is. g
n ' ‘
.
I
~ 3 .
n 5.:
A , .
K .
ﬂ .1
.2 7 a:
V . I
. m i:
. 1‘ V
' ‘ ‘ -. ;=
a P -' .4
..,,.. j; '9.
.3 . .
3' 4. w
‘- m
... . 1.. -‘ ‘
s. ,_ 9 . ,_
. ' .5 I?“
' t- - ‘v.
- ‘v I ’5
\. '..
" .. A: ‘ ‘3
. - _ t
A , , . ‘ .
~.- 1 r:
. - 3‘
n .1
E
. v.
., .
n
:2" . A
4..., V‘
44 r ' A“?
'v‘« ‘ .
_, ' .5
‘ a:
3 .
‘ ‘ ~ .
_. '
' q . .
. , -
v q
. ,3.
.‘f'
.
‘ $
,' ,
. . ‘ ‘5:
x' .
. a" ‘ ,,
. . ’
. 5 5 . i:
L. l, '
9 '. ‘
- 1. u
). , .
, r;
.L. L‘
. . ‘ a . .
y» '_ . .
.I, :2
.« J: "a
. ,
.4”,
, .0?“
1' - ‘. 3‘,
, . ,9 "‘- ' .
r .- .- wt .
“", - ,
. 3‘ ‘ 'L
.2, , . , 5
., ‘ -
~79 ' '
' IA .
:
,4‘ . ;, .t
i . a, it
. . , a,
g , l
.5: x ..
"a *" ,3
I“ ,. . H
~. a - .. ,
. 1_
wﬁ.
I I
. ’4‘ .
. .,i
i U

arm has» : ‘7

 




coco-amor-W-wwu

NDNDMNJMHHHHHHH
lwaHO‘DOO‘deIAwEES

SEC. 5. ENFORCEMENT.

( 1) The provisions of this Act and any regulations issued

.2 pursuant thereto shall be enforced by the Secretary, .Whp‘may

utilize by agreement, 3with . ..or without reimbursement, the

personnel, services, and facilities of any other, Federal agency
or/any State agency for purposes of enforcing this Act. . '

(2) The judges of the district courts of the United States
and the United States magistrates may, within their respec—
tive jurisdictions, upon proper oath or afﬁrmation showing A
probable cause, issue such warrants or other process as may
be required for enforcement of this Act and any regulation
issued thereunder.

(3) To the maximum extent now or hereafter permitted
by Federal law, any individual having authority to enforce
this Act may——

(A) detain for inspection, search, and seize any
package, crate, or other container, including its con-
tents, and all accompanying documents; -

(B) make arrests without a warrant for any viola-
tion of this Act, and

(C) execute and serve any arrest warrant, search
warrant, or other warrant or criminal process issued by
any judge ormagistrate of any court of competent ju-
risdiction for enforcement of this Act.

Any item seized under this Act shall be held by any person
authorized by the Secretary, pending the disposition of crimi-

0311180913

 

 




madame-«Awash;

-l\9l\9l\9l\9l\3l\9HHHHh-l ' ‘
U‘FP-wwHocooo-qmowESSZE

6

nal proceedings or the institution of an action in rem for for-
feiture of the item under paragraph (4); the Secretary may, in
lieu of holding the item, permit the owner or consignee to
*post a bond or other surety satisfactory to the Secretary.
Upon forfeiture of any such item to the United States, or the
abandonment or waiver of any olairn to any such item, it shall
be disposed of (other than by sale to the general public) by
the Secretary in such manner, consistent With the-purposes of ‘
this Act, as the Secretary shall prescribe by regulation.

(4) Any article of fur or steel jaw leghold trap taken,
possessed, sold, purchased, offered for sale or purchase,
transported, delivered, received, carried, shipped, exported,
or imported contrary to the provisions of this Act or to any
regulation made pursuant thereto, shall be subject to forfeit-
ure to the United States.

(5) The Attorney General of the United States may seek
to enjoin any person who is alleged to be in violation of any
provision of this Act or regulation issued under authority
thereof.

SEC. 6. REGULATIONS.

The Secretary shall prescribe such regulations as are

necessary to enforce the provisions of this Act.

SEC. 7. EFFECTIVE DATE.

This Act shall take effect one year after the date of its

enactment.

O

 

 

 

 




ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
P.O. Box 3650, Washington, DC. 20007

Dear Friend,

Welcome to membership in the Animal Welfare Institute.
As a member you will receive the following benefits:

- A year’s subscription to the Animal Welfare Institute
Quarterly
An invitation to the presentation ceremony of the Albert
Schweitzer Award and to the reception in honor of the
recipient
The opportunity to obtain a single free copy of new AWI
books and other publications as they are issued

Interim special information mailings about whales
An annual report

Book selections currently available to new members are:
Whales Versus Whalers
Facts About Furs
Beyond the Laboratory Door

The Bird Business: A Study of the Commercial Cage
Bird Trade

First Aid and Care of Small Animals
Animals, Nature & Albert Schweitzer

If you wish to check one of these and return this note to us,
we’ll mail you the one you choose.

Best wishes,
Christine Stevens
President

Name

Address

 

 

 




WASHlNGlUN. Bf;
”rut: VV,A§!il.NQTQ§LL-Mt
5“” "ﬁlmy 129nm a..- .,

G
t)

.‘ Ngvi'l lavg
RUQRELLE’S

DONALD LAMBRO

Oversight
lapses
at N 1H

ational Institutes of Health

has grudgingly extended

its suspension of federal

funding for head-
“ snapping brain-trauma experiments
on monkeys at the University of
Pennsylvania’s Experimental Head
Injury Laboratory.

In announcing Oct. 4 that the re-
search project had violated federal
animal welfare policy, NIH avoided
any reference to its own negligence
in overseeing the multimillion-dollar
grant. How could a laboratory that
NIH called “one of the best in the
world” little more than a year ago
fall so swiftly from grace? Here’s
the story:

On May 28, 1984, underground
“animal rights” activists broke into
the university lab and took more
than 60 hours of videotapes of injury
experiments withu'wb‘ambgdns. The
tapgs’revealed multiple violations of
federal animal welfare rules. Among
them: callous comments and
laughter by unsupervised techni—
cians, inadequate sedation and anes-
thesia "of the animals, and lack of
asepticwtechniques in surgery on
surviving monkeys.

Yet complaints by People for the
Ethical Treatment of Animals —
which obtained the tapes but had

 

 

NIH had to be
shamed into belated
action.

 

nothing to do with their theft — were
at first ignored by NIH officials,
who continued to approve funding
for the head-injury research.

The lab’s investigators “have con-
sistently received excellent eval-
uations of their research and their
compliance with animal welfare
standards,” affirmed an official at
NIH’s National Institute of Neuro-
logical and Communicative Disor-
ders and Stroke (NINCDS) on June
18, 1984. Even when an NIH site-visit .; ‘
team reviewed the lab’s grant- f f ,_
renewal application last February, ‘
they awarded it the “highest possi-
ble rating.”

By early April, N IH’s director, Dr.
James Wyngaarden, told Demo—
cratic Rep. Doug Walgren of Penn-
sylvania, in whose district the lab
operates, that, lacking access to the
videotape evidence, NIH “ has
been unable to demonstrate non-
compliance by the University”; and
further stated that the February site-
visit “found no evidence of mis-
treatment of animals.”

As recently as last May, the Na-
tional Council of N IN CDS approved
further funding of the head-injury-
grant application.

These actions not only flew in the
face of the videotape evidence, but
also appeared oblivious to past vio-
lations of animal-care standards by
the lab.

Yet NIH publicly brushed off
complaints about animal mis—
treatment until animal welfare ac-
tivists staged a four-day sit-in at
NINCDS offices in mid-July. That '
forced Health and Human Services
Secretary Margaret Heckler to step
in and quell a storm of controversy
by suspending funding for the ex- _
periments, pending further investi-
gation.

By early September, the US. De-
partment of Agriculture found the
lab was guilty of violating animal
welfare regulations and filed a
cease-and-desist order. More than 30
House members mounted a drive to '
halt funding for the project.

HHS and NIH officials finally
bowed to the obvious. They an-
nounced that the lab’s grant would
remain under suspension until its
practices were remedied. NIH also
imposed more stringent oversight
conditions on the facility for the next
five years.

But the fact that NIH had to be
shamed into belated action against
the animal experiments carries
broader implications than the vali-
dation of complaints by animal wel-
fare groups. Adequate enforcement
of animal research policy should not
require illegal break-ins and sit-ins
by free-lancing zealots. Clearly,
NIH’s “trust your fellow re-
searchers” peer—review system re-
mained blind to serious problems
until confronted with ‘undeniable
evidence to the contrary.

Tb restore public confidence that
federally funded researchers are
playing by the rules, NIH must fol-
low through vigorously on proposed
reforms, such as increased site sur-
veillance visits; more careful review
of animal research protocols; better
training of program officials;
greater involvement of experienced
veterinarians in overseeing animal
research grants; and unannounced
inspections of suspect facilities.

Until NIH toughens its oversight
system, the agency risks nagging
doubts about the credibility of the
overwhelmingly worthy research it '
sponsors. One more unmasking by 5.
candid camera, and no one will be ‘
laughing.

 

 

 

 

Donald Lambro is a nationally
syndicated columnist.

 

 




.f/Wﬁe 3W9 ,.
4. w. 7:,

From: Peter C. Lovenheim, Esq.
Joseph H. Gordon, Esq.

Re: Rule—Making Petition to U.S.D.A. to Amend
Hot-Iron Face—Branding Rules for Brucellosis

We learned in the cow case last April that branding
cattle on the jaw with a hot iron was an idea that U.S.D.A.
borrowed from its Brucellosis Eradication Program. Under that
program, more than 100,000 cattle are hot-iron face-branded
each year. To take full advantage of the victory in the cow
case, we prOpose to petition the U.S.D.A. to change its
branding requirements for brucellosis so that the use
of hot-iron branding would be eliminated or at least reduced.
Please tell us if your group 'would like to be a

'Co-Petitioner under the plan described below?* If you have

questions or comments, please call Peter at (716) 248-3750.

**Send confirming note to Peter at: 52 San Gabriel-Dr. Roch.,NY 14610.

 




Branding Petition/Page 2

Background

 

In Rochester Humane Society V. Lyng, Judge Telesca

 

prohibited U.S.D.A. from requiring dairy farmers to hot-iron
face—brand their animals as part of the Dairy Termination
Program. The judge held that freeze-branding was an effective,
humane alternative and that the government had acted unlawfully
by failing to consider it.
At the hearing on the preliminary injunction, U.S.D.A.
witnesses testified that hot—iron face-branding has been used
for years as part of U.S.D.A.'s Brucellosis Eradication Program.
Brucellosis is a bacterial disease affecting cattle. It is
spread through the milk. Under the Eradication Program, animals

must be tested for the disease. Those that react positively

must be "identified by hot iron branding with the letter "B"

(at least 2 x 2 inches) placed on the left jaw." Those that
have been exposed to the disease--though not necessarily reactors--
are hOt—iron branded with the letter "S" on the left jaw.
(U.S.D.A. regulations include a similar branding scheme
for cattle exposed to, or reacting to, tuberculosis. In such

cases, the letter "T1 is hot-iron branded on the jaw.)

 




Branding Petition/Page 3

Number of Animals Affected

 

In 1985, 105,000 cattle were hot-iron face—branded under

the Brucellosis Program. Since 1975, the cumulative total is

more than 2.1 million, with the yearly average about 150,000.

The program has been going on for decades.

Proposed Amendments to U.S.D.A. Regulations

 

The rule-making petition will ask U.S.D.A. to immediately

its regulations as follows:

1) in all instances where hot—iron face—branding is now

required, the rules will be amended so that freeze-branding

is the required method

2) if the agency will not presently adopt freeze—branding

as a required method, then all current branding rules

will be amended to permit freeze-branding as an option

available to the animals' owner.

(Note: The above proposals would be drafted to address
specific regulations under both the Brucellosis and Tuberculosis
programs.)

(Note: U.S.D.A. can and should be encouraged to explore
non-branding alternatives to cattle identification, but this would
not technically be an appropriate subject to cover in a rule—making

petition.)

 




Branding Petition/Page 4

EvidentiarvBasis for Petition
The Petition will draw for itsevidentiarybasis on
the following:
--Expert Testimony in Cow-Branding Case: including
testimony of expert witnesses Dr. Charles Short (Cornell),
Dr. Ted Friend (Texas A & M), Dr. William Whitter (Virg. Poly. Tech.)

——Roch. Humane V. Lvng: including holding that where

 

alternative of freeze-branding is available use of hot-iron
branding would violate state anti-cruelty laws; and holding
that there exists federal policy against unnecessary cruelty

to animals (Case now appears at 633 F.S. 480 (W.D.N.Y. 1986).)

——Materials on Freeze-Branding: most persuasive is

U.S.D.A.'s own CCC-l that allows freeze-branding as option

for farmers in Dairy Termination Program. We have other

materials on file supporting freeze—branding as well as experience

of some other federal agencies that use it on variety of animals
—-Texas Experience—-we will show that following cow case

Texas Animal Health Commission permitted cattle owner to use

freeze-branding on Brucellosis-reactor cattle with good results
Statements of Support from Other Interest Groups--we do

not know at this time but it may be possible to secure statements

in support of Petition from dairy groups.

 




Branding Petition/Page 5

Names on Petition

 

Each participating group would be listed on thevfront
of the petition as a co-petitioner. Joe and Peter will be

listed as counsel.

Timetable

 

We anticipate that once all commitments from co-petitioners

are secured, we can produce a draft of the petition for review

by each group within eight weeks.

 




Branding Petition/Page 6

§gecific U.S.D.A. Regulations to be Amended

 

Under authority of 21 U.S.C. 114a:
9 C.F.R.
9 C.
9 C.
9 C.

and, generally. "Brucellosis Eradication Uniform

Methods and Rules," revised as of June 15, 1986 and

incorporated by reference at 9 C.F.R. 51, et seg.

 




,4...
z > a
x

0 .

'2 .s “7."? i
a -. Rae"

.olONAL REWBL—Extemiom of Remarks

am one oi the live Khomeini
diggglpagmg for president in Friday’s
el . to replace the assassinated Mohama
mid All Rajai, said some high. schoolers
«who are fighters against lslamhave been
arrested and are in p .ison.”

But he said it wa’ too early to tell how
many students has been imprisoned, be»
cause schools opene tor the fall semester
on Wednesday. 1

Several Iranian. sources, who stayed out of
politics during the late shah°s regime and
continued that alooiness after his downfall
in 1979, told the AP they had personal
knowledge of till Tehran high school girls
being executed earlier this month.

These sources, interviewed here and. cons
tasted by telephone in Tehran, said they
knew some of the gir ' and their families,

They said the gir s were accused of bee-
longing to the Muiahadeen Khalo and dis~
tributing its literature at their school last
spring. They were rounded up and taken to
Evin Prison, and en ecuted two days later,
the sources said.

An Iranian woman recounting a separate
case, said a l2-~year-old girl in the class of a.
teacher friend was executed for writing
“death to Khomeini“ on a wall.

As part oi. the campaign to niuazle dissent
in the schools, some nigh school pupils have
been arrested and tortured, sources told the
AP.

One case cited. by young lranian man rem
cently arrived here involved a 19-year-old
who graduated fro Tehran high school
last spring. The teen ger was arrested at his
home and accused f distributing Mujahaa

 

9

After refusing to c niess to plotting to kill
Islamic Revolutions y Guards, the traveler
said, interrogators b need the young man’s
right arm, left leg a d back with cigarettes.
The traveler said he saw the scars, which
spelled out the sentence: “The Revolution-
ary Guard is victor one and his enemy is
dead," which takes 24 letters to spell in
Iran’s Farsi language .

A halfudozen other lranians contacted by
telephone all reported there were reports
circulating in Tehra that up to 70,000 high
schoolers had been erred from school. this
fall. One source sai a low-ranking Educa-
tion Ministry officia had verified this.

Education '- lots or Parvaresh, asked
about it. said. “'1‘ ose who are fighters
against Islam an t Islamic Republic were
not competent a " not register {for
classesl." '

He said he did u t now how many were
banned but “they e a very, very small
nutrition”. -_

ACID RAIN: AN lNTERNATlONAL
THREAT

HON. BRUCE F. VENTO

OF’ MINNESOTA
IN THE HOUSE OF WRESENTATIVES

Wednesday, September .30, 1981

. 0 Mr. VENTO. Mr. Speaker, I would
like to take this opportunity to share
with my colleagues the following artie
cle taken from the current issue of
Sports Illustrated magazine on the see
rious‘ and continually damaging prob-
lem of acid precipitation. I believe this
article is an extremely beneficial and
enlightening source that covers the
damage acid rain causes to our
environment as well as to wildlife
and possibly humans. It has even af-
fected the very building we are gath-

 

l

September 5'0, 1.981

ered in, the us, Capitol and many of
the historical monuments throughout
the District of Columbia.

The article mentions that problems
due to acid rain exist in many States,
some of which are Minnesota, Michiw
gan, New Mexico, Colorado, Idaho,
Montana, California, Washington,
Maine, New York, Pennsylvania, and
West Virginia. These are only a few of
the areas suffering from acid precipie
tation. Many more are known and
countless areas are yet to be discoys
cred. Acid rain is not a matter to be
taken lightly. It is an ominous, silent
killer quietly eating away our natural
resources and killing our wildliiegrigh
before our eyes. As the title of the’iola
lowing article suggests, acid rain. is
truly “An. American Tragedy” that we
must direct our attention to and re:
solve as quickly as possible.

iFrom Sports Illustrated, September 211..

l98ll

AN AMERICAN TRAGEDY
(By Robert H. Boyle)

A chemical leprosy is eating away at the
face of the US. It’s popularly known. as acid
rain, but rain isn’t the only culprit,

The true name for this phenomenon is
acid precipitation. In addition to acid rain, it
includes acid snow, acid sleet, acid hail, acid
frost, acid rime, acid fog, acid mist, acid dew
and “dry" deposits of acid particles, aerosols
and gases. And it’s not only this countryls
problem. ”It is, however, the responsibility of
the U.S.ﬂas both perpetrator and victim. of
this ecological crime—to recognize the exe
treme dangers of acid precipitation and to
take steps to remedy it before it becomes so
pervasive as to be irreversible.

Acid precipitation is caused by the emiss»
sion of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides
from the combustion of fossil fuels. Natural
sources, such as volcanoes and mud flats,
can emit sulfur dioxide into the air, but
their contribution is small. “About 90% oi
the sulfur in the atmosphere of the northa
eastern United States comes from mane
made sources,” says Dr. George R. Hendrey,
leader of the Environmental Sciences Group
at the Brookhaven (N.Y.) National Labora»
tory.

Once aloft, the sulfur dioxide and the his
trogen oxides can be transformed into sulfu»
ric and nitric acids by reacting with moisa
ture in the atmosphere, and air currents can
carry them hundreds, sometimes thousands,
of miles from their source. When these
acids precipitate to earth, they can have a
devastating impact on lands and waters that
have little natural buffering capacity.

Acid precipitation can kill fish and other
.aquatic life outright. In Scandinavia, which
iis downwind of pollution pumped into the
:skies in Western Europe, it has already dean
strayed fish life in 5,000 lakes in southwests
,ern Sweden and in seven Atlantic salmon
rivers and 1.500 lakes in southern Norway,

Acid precipitation can have damaging efs
fects on human health. ,

Acid precipitation may pose a menace to
crops and forests.

Acid deposition is already disfiguring
buildings and monuments, including the
US. Capitol.

Acid precipitation, according to many scim
cntists, is now the single most important en»
vironmental problem in North America. It's
no. Tellico Dam vs. snaildarter issue, in
Wthh an obscure branch of the biological

tree was threatened by technology. Rather.
acrd precipitation is a problem of towerint

 




September 5’0, 198]

dimensions. DDT contamination posed seria
ous problems in this country, but it couldn’t
match acid precipitation’s capacity for de«
struction on so many fronts and on such an
overwhelming scale. .

Think this kind of stuff is hyperbole? in
Canada, where the province of Ontario
alone has lost an estimated 4,000 lakes and
could lose another 48,000 in the next two
decades, there’s an urgent need to curb the
sources of the pollution, many of them lo"
cated in the 10.8., that have created such
devastation and dismal prospects. But
there’s precious little indication, that Wash
:ington is going to act. On the contrary,
ther-es every indication that the Reagan
Administration, whose Clean Air Act Work«
ing (Group is chaired by Interior Secretary
James Watt, is planning to gut that act
when it comes up for renewal or amend-
ment in Congress this session. The Clean
.Air Act, which as written in 1970 doesn’t
really address the problem of acid precipita‘
tion. needs strengthening, not gutting-es-
pecially by the inclusion of measures to curc
tail acid precipitation, The revised law
should require, among other things, the
burning of lownsulfur coal, the installation
of scrubbers at critical plants, investment in
alternative energy sources and the estab«
iishment of emissions standards on a region~
alwor “‘bubble”-—basis. The costs would be
very little compared to the rate hikes ime
posed in recent years by OPEC. A 2% sure
charge on the average utility bill in the East
would get rid of half the sulfur dioxide in
the region. These aren’t far-out figures ad»
vanced by some wild-eyed coo-freak; they’re
from the report of the National Commission
on Air Quality, the members of which are
appointed by the President. 7

In the U.S., acid precipitation falls almost
continuously on the ecologically vulnerable-
lands and waters of West Virginia, PennsyL
vania. New J ersey, New York, Rhode Island,
Massachusetts, Vermont, New Hampshire
and Maine; in short, the 182,496—square~mile
northeast quadrant of the US. Acid precipis
tation has destroyed trout streams, trout
ponds and bass lakes, which is unsettling if
not disastrous; it is also very close to render»
ing the Quabbin Reservoir, which serves
more than two million people in the metro—
politan Boston area, an economic disaster.
The cost to keep the water potable in years
to come promises to be enormous As Alan
VanArsdale of the Massachusetts Depart-
ment of Environmental Quality Engineering
explains, “Our charge is to provide good
water and, of course, we’ll do that. But as
the reservoir gets worse, the cost goes way
up. Who wants to treat a 39-square-mile
lake?“

This is a point often overlooked by the
Reagan Administration: Environmental cons
sciousness often makes good economic
sense. in the classic pay-me-now-or-pay-me
later scenario, the costs the environment is
not exacting today from the industries con-
tributing to the acid rain problem, it Will
claim tomorrow from the public sector to
clean up the resultant mess.

An official of the Environmental Protecs
lion Agency recently told Senator George
Mitchell of Maine that the Administration
isn‘t going to take any action as long as acrd
precipitation was confined to the Northeast.
But that part of the US. isn‘t the only aft»
footed area. Southeastern states, from Flor:
ida to Kentucky, are being hit by the same
mess, Some rain that falls on RaleIgh, N.C.
is more acid than white vinegar; The Char-
lotte Observer routinely reports on ram acui-
ity on its weather page; and the Blue Ridge
Parkway has become known as the Gray
Ridge Parkway because of air-polluting am‘
monium sulfate, a form of acid JpreciDlt-a-

tion.

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD—Extensions of Remark:

Acid precipitation. often at levels that
have been associated with the beginning of
lake acidification in Scandinavia, is now fall~
ing on sensitive lands and waters in Michi-
gan and Minnesota. It is also falling in New
Mexico, Colorado,'ldaho, Montana, Califor-s'
nia and Washington.

That the barn door is still wide open after
several prize horses have escaped seems ir-
relevant to the very people who are-charged
with guarding the door. No portion of the
US. has been harder hit than the Adirona
dack Mountains in upstate New York. The
Adirondacks lie in an area affected by pol-
luted air masses coming from the Ohio
River Valley, southern Canada and the
Middle West. What has happended in the
Adirondacks is a preview of what might
occur elsewhere. ‘

“It’s insidious,” says C. V. Bowes Jr., the
owner of Covewood Lodge, a resort on Big
Moose Lake in the western Adirondacks.

, Bowes is standing in the living room of his

house looking out at the acid waters of Big
Moose, one of 212 Adirondack lakes and
ponds that have so far been. documented as
acidified. It was on Big Moose, in 1906, that
Chester Gillette drowned his lover, Grace
Brown, thereby providing Theodore Dreiser
with the basis for an American Tragedy, an
ironically prophetic title in view of what has
happened in recent years. The still pristine-
appearing lake is now so acid that swimmers
sometimes emerge with bloodshot eyes.
Except for the few odd fish that hover
about spring holes in the bottom, the trout
are gone.

“I can remember how good the fishing
was,” Bowes says. “Then, 30 years ago, it
slowly started to tail off. First the state
blamed it on the big blowdown of 1950,
when we lost 75 percent of our coniferous ,
trees. in the aftermath of a hurricane. The 5
state said that the downed trees made the :1
water poorer for fish. No one suspected

what was wrong, but we should have known “

something was crazy when the trout the
state stocked would run out of the lake
down the outlet to the Moose River. The
state next blamed the beaver. The conserva-
tion department said the beaver were warm-
ing up the water by damming tributary

streams, and the department began dyna~ {f bobcat is down, the raccoon is down. Even ‘-.

Date 'j

\\1
l

E 4511

supplied the water for Bowes‘s hotel had
leached the metals from the building’s
plumbing in poisonous amounts.

The lead and copper could be tasted in the
water from the apartment faucet because
the water had been sitting in the pipe all
day. Bowes checked all the water pipes on
his property. All but one—a pipe in Bowes’s
own house—had highly acidic water. Bowesl
was puzzled by this until he learned that
the contractor who had built the well serv-
ing only the family’s house had used lime.
stone around its tiling. The limestome neu-
tralized the acid in the water. By construct-
ing limestone filter beds for the Lodge’s
water supply, Bowes was able to correct the
problem. Which only begs the question:
How many people dependent on wells in the
Adirondacks, and other places where acid
precipitation comes into contact with
metals, know what’s in their water? And
what’s the consumption of that water doing
to those who drink it? ,

Five miles up the road from Covewood
Lodge in the hamlet of Big Moose, Bill Mar-
leau sits in an armchair in the living room
of his small farm house. He's ticking off the
lakes in the area that have been acidified,
including Woods Lake. where he has had a
small cabin for years. Except for the three
years he served in the Navy during World
War II, Marleau has spent his entire life in
Big Moose. He’s of the opinion that acid
precipitation has an even more widespread
effect on the region than has yet been docu-
mented. Marleau isn’t a scientist. He doesn’t
have data printouts to substantiate his
views. But he’s a state forest ranger—he has
been one for 33 years—and until the fishing
collapsed, he was an ardent angler. ,

“Almost everything is down," says Mar-
leau. “Everything. Acid rain affects the
birds that feed on fish, the fur-bearing ani~

been that feed on fish. The way I look at it,

everything in nature is dependent on food,
and when you reduce the food supply of
those birds and animals. it affects other
birds andvanimals that aren’t directly de-
pendent on aquatic insects and fish. \.

“The snowshoe rabbit is down, the fox '
“way down, deer are down, way down, the

on?“ ‘3‘ Q #338; 20009 .

f ..
.,.,,,_
'4‘] or.
E

miting dam after dam, dozens of them. Acid? the Drorcupine is disappearing. Bear is \
fairly plentiful. but of course a bear is like a '2
heard about acid rain until five years ago, pig. It Will eat anything from bark to gar- L

rain was never mentioned. We never even

when we started reading about the trouble
in Sweden and Canada.“ -

By his own account, Bowes should have
known better. Before he bought '
Lodge, a rustic hotel, in 1951, he was a pro},

fessional naturalist on the staff of the Na~

tional Audubon Society. Even after Bowes

left Audubon, he ran field trips to Central

and South America, the Caribbean and
Africa. But for all of his expertise in the
workings of the world around him. he

admits he didn’t have a glimmer about acid

precipitation until it was too late.

The incident that opened Bowes’s eyes oc-
curred only a year ago, at the start of the
tourist season. in July and August, when
business is hectic at the Lodge, Bowes his
wife, Diane, and their two young daughters
Kimberly and Rebecca, move out of their
house and live in an apartment on the third
floor of the hotel. They are downstairs run-
ning the hotel all day and use the apart‘
ment only at night. One evening in July
1980. Kimberly and Rebecca turned on the

faucet in the apartment to get a drink of ’

water. They complained that it tasted
“funny.” Indeed it did. and analysis diclosed
that it contained five times the State
Health Department's permissible amount of
lead and three times the permissible
amount of copper. It was determined that
acid precipitates entering the spring that

bage. Frogs and crayfish are way down.
Kingfisher, osprey, gulls, they're all down.

i
l

The Icon has disappeard. There are no may- I

Covewood flies, and darning needles are way down.,

There used to be clouds of them when there
were thick hatches of mosquitoes. The mos-

»guitosc are nothing like when I was a kid..."
i‘\~__“You don‘t see fish jump anymore. There
are 0 fish to jump, and even if ther were.
ther be no insects to make the

gets to d int Where you’re
to play Mend- rt 3..
making the environment comfomfble for

the littlest insect.” ,_ ‘
Acidity is measured on the plL—hterally.

from acidic at its low end to alkaline at the
high. Every value below '7. the neutral pom,

potential of Hydrogennscale. which many

is increasingly acidic. The pH scale is espw

nential, so that pH «is is to times "’0"
acidic than DH 5.6- and DH 3’6 is 100 times
more acidic. . -
“Pure" water is slightly “mm a pH Ofolig-
tween 5.6 and 5.7. because We'vvatel‘ mally
cules combine with carbon diox1de natureak
present in the atmospher e and form twcer-
carbonic acid. While scientists are-niance
tain that rain was ever "put e .__for ms HS as
a million years ago it may have hadﬂp ting
high as 6 or 7 as the 1‘65“” °f freeftoguble
alkaline dust—they d0 “0“" that r‘ it
begins when the acidificatio.n 0‘ preempt}:

I

‘bH’L‘ “-l - / "

¢

.-.-. ..
vi: ‘
. ,~
: \

 




"E 4512

ﬁ. an

tion is intensified. The median pH for pre-
cipitation in the Northeast is generally ac-
cepted to be 4.3. Although not “officially
measured.” the lowest recorded level for a
single storm anywhere in the world is be.
lieved to have occurred in the fall of 1978 in
Wheeling, W. Va. According to the 'U.S. EPA
there. over the course of a three-day drizzle,
pHs of under 2 were discovered, more than
5,000 times more acid than normal rain. For
colmparison, the pH of bottled lemon juice is
2

Although data are meager. the evidence
indicates that in the last 20 to 30 years the
acidity of precipitation has increased in
many parts of the U.S. At present, the US.
annually discharges more than 26 million
tons of sulfur dioxide into the atmosphere.
Just three states, Ohio, Indiana and Illinois,
are responsible for nearly a quarter of this
total.

Overall, two-thirds of the sulfur dioxide in
us. skies comes from gas-v, coal-, and oil-
fired powerplants. Other sources: industrial
boilers, smelters and refineries, 26 percent;
commercial institutions and residences, 5
percent; and transportation, 3 percent. Be-

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD—Extensions of Remarks

make for vast differences within an area.
How much acid precipitation it takes to

acidify a specific body of water depends on -

that body’s acid-neutralizing capacity,
chemically measured as its total alkalinity.
A lake with, say, 10 parts per million total
alkalinity is low on alkalines, and in time
acid can destroy it. Knowledge or the total
alkalinity of a body of water and whether
that alkalinity is decreasing is essential be
cause pH can be a deceptive figure, dropping
sharply only as buffering capacity is finally
destroyed.

Snowfall can play a key role in acidifica-
tion. Dr. Ernest W. Marshall, a geologist
specializing in snow and ice. believes he can
track different storms through the Adiron~
decks weeks after they have occurred by
digging into the snowpack and examining
individual storm layers. To Marshall, it’s no
coincidence that the Adirondack lakes that
suffer most each spring lie on the range’s
western slope and receive the greatest snow-
fall. “The snow and ice store acids for three
to four months,” Marshall says. “and then
when the spring melt comes, lakes and
streams get one hell of a slug of acids. It’s as

though a pack-aday smoker gave up ciga~
rettes for four months and then tried to
make up for what he had missed by smoking
dozens of packs in just 10 days." High acid
episodes during snowmelt are not unusual in
lakes and streams that otherwise seem
40 percent; power plants, 30 percent; indus- normal. In Norway, these episodes have
trial sources. 25 percent; and commercial in-- been linked with large fish kills.
stitutions and residences, 5 percent. What a At 6.5 pH level, brook, brown, and rainbow
makes these data even more disconcerting— .trout experience significant reductions in
and statistically unpredictablemis that ends egg hatchability and growth. At 5.5, largeo
sions have trebled in the last 30 years. mouth and smallmouth bass, walleyes and
In addition to sulfuric and nitric acids. rainbow trout are eliminated and declines in
acid precipitation often carries with it other other trout and salmon populations can be
products of combustion, such as lead, zinc, expected. Below 5. most fish are unable to
mercury, copper. cadmium and nickel, . Survive. .
among other poisonous heavy metals. Be- A low pH can cause female fish to retain
sides dumping loads of such metals on once- their eggs, but even if the eggs are laid, mora
balanced ecosystems, acid precipitation can tality can be high in acidified waters be-
also leach from the soil metals. notably alu- cause fish are ultraosensitive in the egg,
minum, that are already present. larval and fry stages. Ironically. as new
After the Clean Air Act was passed in year-classes of fish fail to develop, the older
1970, utilities often sought to meet its fish become bigger because of reduced com-
standards-by building very tall stacks. The petition for the food, and anglers will often
EPA calculates that there are now 180 report sensational catches.
stacks more than 500 feet tall as compared Why do the fish die? Low pH by itself in~
to only two in 1969. Tall stacks can relieve terferes with the salt balance freshwater
local air pollution, but they increase acid species need to maintain in their body tis»
precipitation in downwind areas. In 1974. sues and blood plasma. But apart from that,
American Electric Power ran ads boasting there’s another factor at work: aluminum.
that it was the ”pioneer” of tall stacks. The Acid precipitation “mobilizes” (puts into cir»
ads proclaimed that the tall stacks dispersed culation) aluminum, one of the most abun-
“gaseous emissions widely in the atmos- dant metals in the crust of the earth,.and as
phere so that ground-level concentrations Dr. Carl Schofield, at Cornell University
would not be harmful to human health or aquatic scientist. discovered. aluminum can

tween now and the year 2000. utilities are
expected to double the amount of coal
burned.

At present, the US. pumps some 23 mil-
lion tons of nitrogen oxides into the atmos-
phere. Transportation sources account for

property.” These emissions, American Elec-
tric Power said, are “dissipated high in the
atmosphere, dispersed over a wide area, and

be lethal to fish and other organisms at pH
levels that are normally considered safe for
the host fish themselves. Acidification also

come down finally in harmless traces.” The mobilizes mercury and cadmium, and fish
ads derided

“irresponsible environmental- that don’t die may become poisonous to
MS” “110 wanted strict controls over the predators who eat them—~--including the
\WW and accused them of “taking food human kind—because of the accumulation
"(th the mouths of the people to give of such heavy metals in the fish’s tissues.
Wives] a better view of the moun- Besides losing its fish life, it appears an
“ﬁt “in”? for one thing: I t’s clear now acidified body of water also loses hundreds
1 08¢ harmless traces" are not harm-7 of other organisms, including insects, mol-
The e . . . . lusks and certain types of algae. However, a
of Water de of acrd precipitation on a body few species can actually thrive. The water in
and Sons inlaid: (in the nature of the rock an acidified lake is often a crystalline blue,
8 team“ agﬁaed' A watershed con- but the bottom is sometimes carpeted with
m‘mmmbmtaw: 0311th and 13138. fibrous mats of algae. thick enough to be
' acid mamsgﬁduf‘mm hme- picked Up and shaken like a rug. Bacteria
Robins hblet wiﬁ real; an that can thrive without oxygen live beneath
mac ‘. ‘me Darts 01 {1102; “Ch mats. where they decompose plant
re lkal as the ultimatum With matter and produce gases that bubble to the
mo . .a ine soils. havc treat but “‘8 Surface in the summer months. '1 suspect
panties, but there are other areas that ca.- ‘that this is the cause of the germ: "

hard rock ﬁnd/or inf
these have ertile sandy 3°“

Geologic outcroppmgs

rid anomalies can ven’s Hendrey. ‘

7

V9 like odor that waits over the surface“ or ;.-
b enng c » and some acidified Adirondack lakes during the .
a 39““?- warmest part of the year," says Brookha— » -' .

»‘

September 30, 1981

There’s another bizarre touch: Tree leaves
that fall into streams, lakes, and ponds
become pickled and simply stay there. The
bacteria and fungi that would. normally
begin to break down the leaves are inhibit»
ed, and the same holds for stoneflies and
other aquatic insects that eat leaf detritus.
Given this, leaves can build up in a body of
water. and as Hendrey says, “Acidification is
accelerating the rate of the fillingdn of
ponds. The accumulation of meterial is ab
normal. and it’s increasing so rapidly that
soon it may have negative effects for human
beings.”

Scientists at the Freshwater institute in
Winnipeg. Canada are attempting to docu»
ment the most minute changes that occur in
acidified lakes. In 1969, the Canadian gov»
ernment established the Experimental
Lakes Area southeast of Kendra, Ontario by
setting aside 46 lakes for scientific investiga»
tion of pollutants. Like thousands of other
lakes in eastern Canada. ELA lakes are situe
ated on the granitic Canadian geologic
shield. and because they are remote from
sources of pollution, they are basically urns»
disturbed. Inasmuch as the hydrological,
meteorological. chemical, biological and
physical characteristics of all 46 lakes have
been measured, any one of them can serve
as an experimental laboratory, with others _
acting as controls. Early research in the
ELA centered on the effects of phosphate
detergents. which led to their reduced use in
Canada. and in 197d the emphasis shifted to
the effects of acid precipitation. The scienw
tists took one lake—4t has no name, just the
designation Lake 223—and over the course
of the next four years added three metric
tons of sulfuric acid to it. Dramatic changes
have already occurred. The pH of 223 has
dropped from 6.5 to 5.6; aluminum. zinc and
other toxic metals have been mobilized. and
are present in increasing concentrations; a
small. mysid shrimp, an important food for
lake trout, has disappeared. as has the fat»
head minnow; the population of slimy scul»
pins has dropped sharply; and there is a
greater incidence of deformed laketrout em»
bryos. ‘

Although. the phenomenon of acid precipi»
tation has been recognized only in recent
years. it probably began, about a century
ago. Dr. Stephen A. Norton and his col-
leagues at the University oi Maine have
found buildups of lead and zinc far greater
than the natural background levels in sedia
ment cores extracted from the depths of
New England and Scandinavian lakes. The
cores show that the initial buildups began

100 years ago and then increased startlingly
in the 19405. In approximately 100 years
lead has increased as much as 300% over the
background level and zinc as much as 700%.
Moreover, additional studies of the scdimen»
tary remains of diatoms, microscopic one»
celled algae. and of cladocerans, microscopic
crustacea, indicate “biological changes relate
ed to acidification of some of the lakes.”

As early as 1872. Robert Angus Smith
noted that coal burning in, Great Britain
caused acid precipitation. and. shortly after
the turn of the century English scientists C.
Crowther and H. G. Ruston reported that
"acid rain,” the term they used, had killed
or reduced the. yields of timothy, radish, lete
tuce and cabbage grown near Leeds in the
industrialized Midlands of Great Britain.

In 1959 a Norwegian fisheries inspector, A. '
Dannevig. first attributed the decline in fish
in southern Norway to the increasing acidv
ity of the water, but he had no idea that the
acids came from the sky. At the same time

"Eville Gorham, a Canadian ecologist then in

- d. and now at the University of Min»
‘ ‘ bed a number of papers dem-
' L *l‘i‘wcid precipitation could

,c. ._ 7
”:3. (v:

 




y»

September 30, 1.981 , . CONGRESSIONAL RECORD—Extensions ofRemarks '

_,,.~"‘affect the buffering capacity of bedrock,
.. soils and lakes. ,

But it was not until 1967 that Svante
Oden, .a young colleague ‘ of pioneering
Swedish atmospheric scientists Karl Gustav
Rossby and Erik Eriksson, made the break-
through that identified acid precipitation as
a serious environmental threat. Odén, who
had been asked to do research on surface-
water chemistry, theorized that the increas«
ing acidity of Swedish waters was the result
of atmospherf fallout of sulfates. The
Swedish gover ment asked him to write a
report on his hypothesis, and while Oden
was working on it, he received a call from a
fisheries inspector in western Sweden who
asked, “ls it possible that a massive fish kill
we have found could be related to the acid
precipitation?” Qdén recalls, “That was a
shock to me, because that was the first real
indication that acid precipitation had an
impact on the biosystem.” , .

Oden’s report, issued in 1968, showed that
acids emanating from Great Britain and
”West Germany were having a deleterious
impact on Swedish rivers and lakes, particua
larly in the southwestern partof the coun-
try. The report created a sensation, and
Qden was invited to lecture at universities
in the US... where other scientists, notably
Dr. Gene E. Likens at Cornell and one of his
graduate students, Charles Cogbill; Dr. F.
Herbert Bormann of Yale; Dr. James N.
Galloway of the University of Virginia; and
Dr. Ellis Cowling at North Carolina State
began investigating acid precipitation. Cowl~
ing was instrumental in the establishment

. of a National Atmospheric Deposition Pro
gram, which has a network of sampling sta-4
tions across the US. and in Canada. Dr.
Harold Harvey and Dr. Richard Beamish at
the University of Toronto focused on lakes.
Likens and his colleagues at Cornell were in
a particularly advantageous location in up-
state New York. Dr. Dwight Webster, a Core
nell professor of fisheries science, had been
working on several Adirondack lakes that
had been losing their trout populations, and
«Schofield, the Cornell aquatic scientist, ex-
amined the data Webster had accumulated.
As Webster says now, “Everything began to
fall into place.” In time, even utilities joined
in. Since 1977, the Electric Power Research
institute, a non-profit arm of the utility in-
dustry, has funded $14.5 million in acid pree
cipitation research. .

Apart from being a threat to aquatic life,
acid precipitation poses other problems,
some of which are the concern of Dr. Mi-'
chael Gppenheimer, a senior scientist at the
Environmental Defense Fund headquarters
in New York City. Oppenheimer recently
gave up his post as an atmospheric chemist
with the Harvard~Smithsonian Center for
Astrophysics in Cambridge, Mass. to join
EDF so he could deal full time with acid
precipitation and related issues.

“On certain days the air pollution from
Los Angeles blows across the Southwest,”
says’ Oppenheimer. “‘Add that pollution
drifting out of the LA. basin to that from
large power plants and smelters in the
Southwest, and some of our best views in
the West, such as the view of the surround-
ing ridges from within the Bryce Canyon
National Park, are reduced. The 'haziness is

~ caused by the microparticulates associated
with acid precipitation. Congress was spe-
cifically concerned about this when it
passed the Clean Air Act. There are possible
effects on climate. Particulate matter re-
duces the penetration of sunlight, and I
think it likely. this will have some effect on

climate inthe Northeast and perhaps else«
where. ‘

" “There are also possible adverse effects on
human health. The first human-health

_‘ effect is the inhalation of suspended mere“ 1‘ “Wt-‘0" ngfeld" '_-

particulates of nitrate and sulfate materials.
For years asthmatics have gone West for
their health, and the inhalation of micro-
particulates can affect asthmatics, old
people and children. We’re concerned now
that fine particles are causing widespread
health damage in the Northeast.”

The “Northeast Damage Report,” written
for a consortium of Northeastern states by
Jennie E. Bridge of the New England Inter-
state Water Pollution Control Commission

~ and F. Peter Fairchild of the Northeast

States for Coordinated Air Use Manage-
ment, states “Human health is also directly
impacted by sulfates and other fine parti-
cles transported in the atmosphere. Impacts
range from serious respiratory and cardio-
vascular diseases to death from cancer. High
levels of sulfate in the Northeast, largely
due to long~range transport into the region,
contribute significantly to morbidity in the
region. The probability of dying from air
pollution-related diseases is twice as high in
the Northeast than in other regions of the
United States."

According to Oppenheimer, “A second ad-
verse human health effect is the leaching of
toxic materials into drinking water supplies,
both ground and surface waters.” In some
parts of the U.S.. homeowners obtain their
drinking water from roof catchments that
drain into cisterns. In Ohio, for example,

' there are 67,000 such systems. ‘In a study of

40 catchment-cistern homes in Clarion and
Indiana counties in western Pennsylvania,
Dr. William E. Sharpe, a water resources
specialist at Penn State, found that 28
homes, or 70 percent, had lead Concentra-
tions—«already in the water when it arrived
as rainfalb—in their water supplies that ex~
ceeded the EPA’s “safe" level (50 parts per
billion). Nine of the homes had hazardous
lead concentrations caused by acid corrosion
of the plumbing. “People who rely on roof
catchments have very definite problems,”
Sharpe says. “There are possible health ef- '
fects, and there are economic costs. They're
going to have to lay out $600 to $1,000 per
household to make rudimentary changes.

The rural sections of Clarion and Indiana
counties have no public water supplies, and
there’s an irony here: Deep and surface coal
mining has polluted the ground and surface
waters so they’re unfit to drink, and the
people have turned to the sky as a. last
resort. It's the coal that’s mined in the area
and shipped to power plants that’s coming
back to kill their last resort."

Acid deposition readily affects metals,
marble and limestone, and it is accelerating
the degradation of buildings and monu-
ments in the US. and abroad: Some of those
affected in this country include the Statue
of Liberty, the Washington Monument and
the Capitol. “The east side of the Capitol is
white Lee marble from Lee, Mass,” says Dr.
Erhard Winkler of Notre Dame. “There are
craters, one-quarter inch or more in it. It

, looks like shrapnel has hit it. What has hap-

pened is that because of acid precipitation,
the hard minerals in the marble had
changed to talc." .
With one or two exceptions, the impact of
acid precipitation on crops and forests has
yet to be scientifically determined. There
are more variables to contend with in terres-

trial ecosystems than aquatic ecosystems. ‘

But experimental work with simulated acid
rain has Shown a number of harmful effects

on crops, Such as the. leaching of nutrients .
' from. foliage, the inhibition of nitrogenflw

ation essential to photosynthesis and-the r e-
duced yields of pinto beanswand soybeans.

pans“ of New York’s
Indeed, Dr. LW estimates that. as a

l" C V ,
.Manhattan 1,13,... recipitation soybean farmers"

y, suffer a loss of $50 mimenhqréuse ‘7 -.

,v.,. ‘

v

. E 4513

Probably the most significant work on
North American forests is that being dene
in the Green Mountains by Dr. Hubert Vo-
gelmann and Margaret Bliss of the Universi-
ty of Vermont and Dr. Thomas E. Siccama
of Yale. In a paper to be published in the'
Bulletin of the Torrey Botanical Club (a
peer-review journal), they report a startling
50 percent dieback in red spruce’o’n Camels
Hump, Jay Peak, Bolton Mountain and
Mount Abraham. The dieback has occurred
in the last 15 years on land that the scien-
tists has previously studied. “Examination
of dying trees has not revealed diseaSe or-

- ganisms,” they write. “The fact that trees of

all ages become necrobiotic suggests that
they are under environmental stress, but it
is not clear what stress or stresses are in-

volved. . . . Red spruce decline is especially
pronounced at upper mountain elevations

where precipitation is high and fog is of fre-
quent occurrence. Studies currently under-'
way in the Green Mountains indicate that
both rain and fog at these elevations are
highly acid. . . . Heavy metals (i.e., lead,

copper and zinc) are known to be accumu- ‘-

lating in forest soils at upper elevations.
Since the environment of high elevations is
normally fragile, it is possible that recent
atmopheric pollution is sufficient to tip the
balance of trees already growing in “a

stressed situation."

What‘s being done to curtail acid precipi- '
tation? A lot. in Canada. Canadians know
they have a great deal to lose besides lakes
and rivers. Forest products are the biggest
industry in that country. The single largest

source of sulfur dioxide emissions in North

America is the International NickelCompa-
ny’s nearly one-quartert-mile-high super-
stack, the tallest in the world, in Sudbury, .
Ontario. Every day the stack spews 2,500
tons of sulfur dioxide into the atmosphere,
and some of it reaches the US. The stack
used to exude more than 5,000 tons of

sulfur dioxide 3. day, but INCO is now under '

provincial orders to cut emissions to 1,950
tons a day by 1983 and make further reduc-
tions thereafter to the lowest feasible level.
Until last year, provincial governments set
the standards for emissions of sulfur and
notrogen oxidesumuch in the manner that

the Reagan Administration is planning to '

propose that emissions regulationsbe estab-
lished by individual states—but Canada
amended that law in 1980, giving Parlia-
ment the authority to control sources that ‘
contribute to pollution “acres‘s national
boundaries?

But Canada can’t go it alone. Two-thirds _
of the sulfuric acid that falls there origi-
nates in the U.S., and Canada is waiting to
see what the US. is going to do when Con-
gress and the Administration reconsider the
Clean Air Act, probably in December. If the
utility industry has its way, the US. will not
take effective action now.

Utility arguments against controleiramiS
sions sometimes are absurd. but the man‘s-

try also presents the following Seemmgw ./‘

cogent points: . . . ‘

It is unclear whether precipitation IS
coming more acid in the East. That a
but there are large areas of the U: » «»
Canada that can‘t endure

further damage- -

Fish in Florida lakes With a 10W prShOﬁ-f‘

' ” ‘ ' aid l5?
Sign of dying. Correct. What leafs, '3 , .,
I{ﬁst the fish are stunted and emacigt%.
The “three lakes in th £1“ ,. 633:;
gument. This is a, fave,

the. E1 Sides" ~11!
Perhac, of GP 1939”

anywher neat‘.‘
current levels of acidity without suﬁ’SI‘m-gj-é

‘i’

 




E, .4514.

three lakes in the Adirondack Mountains of tists referred to, Dr. Paul Mayewski and Dr.
NewYork State which have very different W. Berry Lyons, insist they made no such
acidities, yet these lakes lie within a few findings. “The story was extremely distort-
miles of ,each other and chemistry of the ed,” says Mayewski. “There were no signifi-

- rainfall is the same at all three. Obviously cant heavy acid traces at all in the cores,
, some factor other than precipitation is re- and we stressed to the man from The Wall
sponsible' for the acidity.” What“”'Perhac Street J o'urnal that we were doing research
' didn’t tell the Congressmen was that the on ice and snow, not rain and acid rain.”
three lakes in question—they happen to be Mitchell C. Lynch, whose byline appears on
Panther, Sagamore and Woods, Bill Mar- The Wall Street Journal story, stands by his
leau’s old favorite—“have different buffering piece as an accurate presentation of the in-
capacities. On March 19, 1980, Perhac re— formation given to him. by the scientists. On
peated the same testimony to the Senate Oct. 1, 1980 the Journal used Lynch’s article
Subcommittee on Environmental Pollution. as a peg for an editorial declaring that the
Sudden acidification of a‘bcdy of water, in “theory” that acid rain is a re: 11111 of indus-
itself, may not be responsible for fish kills. trialization “has just taken a couple of body
Perhac used this argument before both the blows from Mother Nature.”
House and Senate subcommittees last year, Others have taken up the cry. In a speech
and he cited a case of a kill that occurred in last May at an international acid rain con-
the Tovdal River in Norway in early 1975. ference at the State University of New York
It’s true that the sudden acidification “in at Buffalo, William N. Poundstone, execu-
itself,” to quote Perhac’s hedge phrase, tive vice~president of Consolidation Coal
didn’t kill the fish. What Perhac didn’t say Company, cited “research by two scientists
was that it was determined that the likely at the University of New Hampshire They
killing agent was aluminum, mobilized by studied Antarctic and Himalayan ice cores,
the acid snowmelt. dating back 350 years. Here, clearly in the
Acid rain is turning up in remote parts of absence of fossil- fuel burning plants, they
the werld, such as Hawaii. Therefore acid found pH values in the low 55.”
rain is natural and industry cannot be Industry representatives often use a1 gu—
blamed. This argument is completely irrele- ments such as the above to turn out articles
vant to the situation in the northeastern that befuddle the public and legislators.
(1.8., where natural sources are far too small Since they all seem to be reaching into the
to account for the observed sulfuric acid in same old bag, it’s sometimes difficult to dis-
precipitation. Yes, rain in Hawaii is acid, cern who wrote what first. Two articles pub-
ranging from 5.2 at sea level to 4.3 at 7,500 lished back to back in Before the Rainbow:
feet, but the scientists who documented What We Know About Acid Rain, a 102-
this, John 0. Miller and Alan Yoshinaga of page paperback published by the Edison
the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Ad- Electric Institute as part of its “Decision-
ministration, have suggested that convective makers Bookshelf,” are just about identical,
rainstorms may reach high up into the tro- word for word, page after page, except for
posphere to precipitate pollutants coming the placement of some paragraphs
from distant sources. Recently Canadian sci- Essentially that book is a compendium of
entists reported that pollutants traveling articles intended to define the utility indus-
3,000 miles and more from Europe,’Asia and try’s stance on acid rain. Its tone is‘ set by
possibly N01 th America are causing a perva- Editor Carolyn Curtis, who, after seizing
sive haze in the Arctic during winter and upon the fact that “natural min is some-
spiing. what acidic.” writes, “So by all rights we
A reduction in sulfur dioxide emissions in should have been saying for years, ‘It’ 3 acid
the Midwest and Northeast, say of 50 per- raining outside,’ or ‘Take your umbrella. Its
cent, wouldn’t cause a 50 percent decline in going to acid rain today.’ This sounds pre-
suspended sulfates, wet sulfur deposition posterous, but it’s true. Thus, our first un-
and acid p1 ecipitation in the N01 thea.st “It derstanding is that the strong verbal image
is true that there is not a one-to-one corre- ‘acid rain,’ elicits more fear than it de-

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD‘F-Extemz'om of Remarks

spondence in reductions,” says Oppenhei-
mer, who has been studying the chemical
transformation and deposition of sulfur,

serves.” .
Curtis also writes that “what has been
printed on this subject ranges from good

“but long-range transnort models indicate through mediocre to bad in terms of edit-ori-
that 50 percent reductions would lead to al consistency and scientific soundness. . . .
very signficant decreases closer to 50 per— The mediawwhich have many fine writers,
cent than to zero.’ editors and, yes, thinkers—have painted for
Any acidified waters could be restored by me an amusing portrait of two of our soci-
liming is useful only on a limited Band— Aid et’y s most distinguished professions. One is
scale for the preservation of unique fish of a scientist who one day comes across
populations. “It has its place currently in some surprising information: that precip1 ta-
lishery management, but it isn’t viewed as , tion is higher in acidity than distilledwater.
to solution to the problem,” says Cornell’s He scratches his head and says, ‘By’ golly,
Sch-afield. Harvey of the University of To- I’ve been wondering why all these fish have
ycnto says, “Let us dismiss out of hand that been disappearing!’ The other is of a govern-
we, can, lime the northeast quadrant of a ment lawmaker. He reads a report that sci-
contincnt. ” Liming also doesn’t answer the entists are learning rain has a higher acid
other threats posed by acid precipitation.
_ “in .1980 two scientistswho tested ice core up at a staffer and shouts, ‘I knew it! It’s
112:.samples CJZT‘ luded that acid rain existed those so—andisos in industry. They’ve been
a . long bEf’Ci Industrial Revolution. They sending stuff up in the air and now it’s
' found the so: epics, which were taken from showering down on all of us.’
if: Antarn 7W- and the Himalayan Moun- “If scientists and Congressmen were as
W r: 133791} W13 hacif} One sample was 3.50 overly reactive and quick to jump to conclu-
r eye? 0 d This ,, 11 ell documented and sions aS‘that, we would not have progressed
. .. {F inform ation is cited in the Edison beyond the alchemists and feud al system of
l 10 Inithll'e's spublication, Before the the Middle Ages. 0n. the other hand if we
“(512‘ “1131' We KNOW AbOUt ACId Rain; \. knew all the scientiﬁc information there
3:113}? vgimation is false It was based on an was to know and if every law had been
011 S}, . i1: T $151831 P52311311 Street Journal passed, then those folks wouldnt have
r0111, " ..,, 11* ory began, Acid much to do.
1+1 .. “1" 111‘ w‘ 3131151711 of emiromnentalists, Fred Johnson of the Pennsylvania Fish
F;‘)‘,;djj‘r; 1?" iii": f "a: 1‘1 for centuries, ac- Commission says, “The utility compani .5 re-
1;, ii ,‘" .._.\. 03 111-0 Universuy of sponsible are dragging their feet and
1 ~ - «running 8011.]: sis." The two scien- screaming and hollering that they need an.

e the

content than they realized before. He looks .

specialist

’4' " I
September 30; 1381

other 20 years of research. If we do th
it’ll be too late. . . .They put out propagan-
da, and this confuses the piiblic, which is
going to suffer in the end. I just got another
piece of garbage in the mail today from
General Public Utilities.”

The GPU’s brochure that so exercised
Johnson. is called Takethe Acid Test, and
one of the questions it asks is: Is acid rain a

problem in Pennsylvania? GPU’s answer is,

“The results of the studies to date are in.
conclusive and often downright contradic-
tory. For example, tha Pennsylvania Fish
Commission is blaming increasing acidi y in
the rainfall for low fish populations in some
streams. But Dr. Robert P. Pfeifer, an asso~
ciate professor at Pennsylvania State Uni»
versity. views acid rain as a boon to the
Pennsylvania farming community. He said
that without the sulfur and nitrogen
brought down by acid rain, Pennsylvania
would become barren of most vegetation.”
The utility industry has some formidable
political allies on the state level, notably
Ohio Governor James Rhodes, who has said
that his State is no more to blame, for acid

. rain than Florida is to blame for hurricanes.

James F. McAvoy, former director of Ohio’s
Environmental Protection Agency, admitted
to Congress last year that his state is the
largest single emitter of sulfur dioxide in
the nation, but he refused to concede that
acid precipitation was “a very serious probe
1cm.” McAvoy testified: “Despite the report»
ed effects of acid rain on the environment
we cannot afford to overreact to prelimio
nary data, especially in light of our grave
energy needs today . . . We are aware that
both the US. EPA and the White House
have stated that it will take at least 10 years
to accurately determine the extent, effects,
sources and controls of this phenomenon. In -
our opinion, the 10-year figure may be
overly optimistic. . .” Two months ago
President Reagan nominated McAvoy for
the Council on Environmental Quality.

What do Administration officials think
about acid precipitation? In April of 1980,
David Stockman, now the Director of the -
Office of Management and. Budget, told a
Washington meeting of the National Associ-
ation of Manufacturers that he was “some
what of a self-avowed heretic” who didn’t
belong to the “choir of the faithful commit-
ted to issuing melodious harmonies tothe
tenets of orthodoxy regarding the. Clean Air
Act.” Addressing himself directly to acid
rain, Stockman went on to say, “I kept read-
ing these stories that there are 170' lakes
dead in New York that will no longer carry
any fish or aquatic life. And it occurred to
me to question . . well how muchare the
fish worth in the 170 lakes that account for
four percent of the lake area of New York?
And does it make sense to spend billions of
dollars controlling emissions from sources in
Ohio and elsewhereif you’re talking about.
very marginal volume of dollar value, either
in recreational terms or commercial terms?”

After Stockman finished, an RAM spdkes-
man said he found it “encouraging to know
that somebody who thinks like that is 3 fill
in Washington and bass onsethin g to say”
Stockman has much to say now about any
approach to acid man As d1; ector of the
01‘ v’lB he has oversight of all environmental
regulations

A1 the 1980 presidential elections,
P1 ime Minister Pierre Trudeau. of Canada
said he pla med to discuss acid precipitation
with the new P1 eslde nt at the fl 1511 nesting
betx ecu the tn 0. They met and talked in
Ottawa in March, but the signs me that
their discussion yielded little progress on
acid precipitation problems. A month after»
ward, Robin Perter, the State Department’s
on- pollution problems with

a).
Q“
Lb}.

, -
~..‘ . \
“£13.. - '
- .v. "'95?
“.47" - ,—. --
. ‘ ‘1. »
7.. - ..

.5. ..:1'.~_ .39. . -

 




September 5’0, 1.981 CONGRB

Canada, said that any treaty with Canada
on transboundary air pollution was “at least
three or four years away.” Angry Canadian
officials said that any such delay was unac-
ceptable.

Several weeks later the Adminstration
further angered the‘ Canadians when it
failed to send its official representative-
Frederic N. Khedouri. Associate Director of
the OMB for Natural Resources, Energy
and Science-to an acid rain conference in
Buffalo. Among those stood up by Khedouri
was Dr. Mark MacGuigan. Canada’s Secreo
tary of State for External Affairs.

MacGuigan pointedly told the conference:
“To . . . those who proponnd the view that
economic and energy considerations make
significant controls unleasible, I would
submit that significant emissions reduo
tions, if wisely applied, need not detract
from economic and energy goals. Nor should
the legitimate costs of production be passed
off to another partynin this case another
country. This is spurious in economic terms
and irresponsible in the spirit of interna-
tional legal considerations.

. . acid rain is a serious bilateral issue
because Canadians perceive that further
delay in tackling the burgeoning threat of
acid rain can resut in further incalculable
damage. Such delays would. be particularly
repugnant to Canadians if they were the
result solely of narrow vested interests.

. . it was an international arbitration in
the 1930s between Canada and the United
States that provided what is. still the clears
est statement of the international law relat-
ing to air pollution. At the conclusion of the
Trail Smelter Arbitration, in which Canada
had previously accepted liability for damage
caused [to farmersl in the state of Washing-
ton by fumes from a smelter in British Coo
lumbia, the arbitral tribunal stated that ‘no
state has the right to permit the use of its
territory in such a manner as to cause
injury by fumes in or to the territory of an-
other, or the properties of persons therein.’

“I am certain that all responsible Ameri-
cans accept that the rule of law should
guide their relations with other countries as
well as their internal activities. I am also
certain that responsible Americans recog-
nize that our mutual obligations must be
met by dealing with the causes of acid rain
to prevent further damage rather than con-
centrating on remedies for damage after it
has occurred.”

The next move is up to Congress. Of all
those who have addressed the issue, Oppena
heimer of EDPa says it best: “We have taken.
a basic parameter of nature, snow and rain»
fall, which touches everything, and we have
changed the acidity by a factor of 10 to 100
times over normal in the last half—century.
Nature operates on a long time scale, but we
have been making a host of changes at once,
and all the cumulative effects of these
changes on this country cannot be under-
stood at once. This is a matter of grave con-
cern. Acid precipitation is an incipient disas-
ter of the first order, and if we don‘t do any
thing, within 10 years we’ll-start to see seri-
ously significant effects beyond already
manifest fishless lakes.”o ,

W‘—

 




MONITOR

THﬂECC»EERVATK»%EAWWKNWWENTAL
AND ANIMAL WELFARE CONSORTIUM

1506 19th St, NW.
Washington, DC. 20036 (202) 234-6576

STATEMENT ON WHALES AND WHALING
BY CRAIG VAN NOTE
BEFORE THE
HOUSE SUBCOMMITTEE ON HUMAN RIGHTS
AND INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS

22 SEPTEMBER 1981

I am the executive vice—president of the Monitor
Consortium of conservation, environmental and animal
welfare organizations. Today I am speaking on behalf
of the following Monitor member organizations:

American Cetacean Society
American Humane Association
American Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals '
Center for Action on Endangered Species
Defenders of Wildlife
Friends of the Sea Otter
Friends of Whales
Friends of Wildlife
The Fund for Animals
Greenpeace U.S.A.
International Primate Protection League
Society for Animal Protective Legislation
Washington Humane Society
The Whale Center

I am pleased to appear before this Committee once again
to discuss the fate of the great whales. Your personal
concern, Mr. Bonker, and that of your colleagues in the House
and Senate, have been crucial in the achievement of the steady
gains in whale protection in recent years.

It was especially important that you, Mr. Chairman, and
Representative Pete McCloskey attended the recent International
Whaling Commission (IWC) meeting in Brighton, England. Your
presence on the U.S. delegation demonstrated the resolve of
the Congress and the American people for an end to commercial
whaling. Your discussions with other delegations and your
pointed statements to the press left no dOubt that the United
States government is prepared to back up its policy of whale
conservation with enforcement powers granted by the Pelly and
Packwood/Magnuson Amendments.

 




It was most encouraging to see the strong statement for
whale protection delivered to the treaty meeting from President
Reagan. And it was particularly gratifying to have Interior
Secretary Watt, who heads the Cabinet Council on Natural
Resources and the Environment, backing an aggressive U.S.
position at the IWC. The appointment of Tom Garrett as acting
U.S. Commissioner, at the behest of Mr. Watt, put the most
experienced American in that key post. Mr. Garrett's leader-
ship at the IWC meeting was instrumental in the progress
achieved there.

Secretary Watt's pro-whale position stood in stark
contrast to the debacle at the Convention on International
Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES)
meeting early this year when, under the Interior Department's
lead, the U.S. actively opposed the listing of the sperm,
fin and sei whales on Appendix I, endangered status. CITES
overwhelmingly rejected the U.S. position and banned the trade
in the products of sperm, fin and sei whales.

The United States seized the reins of leadership in whale
conservation at the whaling commission for the first time since
1977. The eloquent and impassioned statements by the U.S. head
of delegation not only inspired the majority of nations to
greater efforts, but also laid bare the sordid history of greedy
overexploitation that is commercial whaling.

It was a welcome change, indeed, for us in the conservation
and animal welfare communities to see the United States standing
up forthrightly for an end to commercial whaling, and bargaining
effectively, rather than the weak-kneed, secretive wheeling and

dealing that characterized the past three years when the U.S.
"commissioner seemed obsessed with gaining a high number of
bowhead whales for Alaska's aboriginal hunt, at whatever cost.

The 1981 IWC meeting saw two enormous steps taken in the
international effort to end whaling. Sperm whaling should
come to an end next year and the cruel cold harpoon will be
banned, an action that will increase costs and dangers and may
force an end to most minke whaling. Both of these whale-protection
actions taken by the IWC will only become effective if the .
whaling nations agree to abide by them. There is some likelihood,
we must warn, that Japan and other whalers may file objections
to these prohibitions, thus exempting themselves from the
restrictions.

SPERM WHALING

The end to sperm.whaling has been a long time coming. The
need for sperm.whale oil disappeared years ago when synthetic
substitutes were developed. Sperm whale meat is unfit for human
consumption because of its high mercury content. But the whalers
insisted on continuing the kill because it was a lucrative
sideline to the business of killing baleen whales.

The International Whaling Commission has grossly mismanaged
this species, allowing it to be severely depleted. The
scientific committee of the Commission, after spending years

 




developing population models, has been forced to admit it has
little understanding of the population dynamics of the sperm
whale. It was only after bitter wrangling over the past four
years that the Commission has overcome the objections of Japan
and other whaling nations to vote an end to the killing, which
will go into effect in 1983.

Japan is desperately trying to restore its sperm whale
quota. Why? Primarily, it is an employment issue. A handful
of small villages on the Japanese coast conduct whaling year-
round, taking Bryde's and minke whales in the spring and summer,
and sperm whales in the fall and winter. If the sperm whaling
is stopped, the whalers will go out of business, since they
cannot operate just half a year.

The prospect of the Japanese winning a new quota -- they
say they want 1,350 sperm whales, the level of last year's
quota -— is unlikely. The special meeting of the Commission in
March will consider a new Japanese model that, it is safe to
assume, will'ﬂemonstrate"there are plenty of sperm whales every-
where, enough for the killing.

But Japan must get a three-quarters majority of the Commission
to win a quota. Considering that almost three-quarters of the
thirty-odd IWC nations are anti-whaling, there seems little
chance they will buy the Japanese arguments.

Japan has an option open that will allow it to continue
to whale in defiance of a zero IWC quota on sperm whales. That
is filing an objection and setting whatever quota it wants.
This is precisely what the whaling nations did with regularity
in the 1950's and 1960's, and even a few times in the 1970's.
. Since the IWC has no enforcement capability, it has been powerless
in the face of such unilateral action.

In fact, the treaty organization was a ”whalers' clu "
until the U.S. decided, in 1973, to threaten economic sanctions
on any nation that subverts whale conservation efforts. So
when Japan and the Soviet Union filed objections to the minke
quotas in 1973 and subsequently killed thousands of whales over

the quotas, both nations were certified under the Pelly Amendment.
Because this law is discretionary, President Ford issued a flat
ultimatum to Japan and the Soviet Union: the U.S. will not
embargo your fishery products if you agree to not file any more
objections. Both nations, stung by this sudden demonstration

of backbone, agreed to abide by the IWC regulations in the

future. And they have not filed any more objections so far.
(Although, both the Japanese and Soviets have cheated by
trafficking in outlaw whale products or taken protected or
undersized whales.)

It is our understanding that this pledge by the Japanese
and Soviet governments, made to President Ford in 1975, still
stands. We urge the Congress to provide the necessary guidance
and oversight to ensure that the Administration, and particularly
the two lead agencies, the Commerce and State Departments,
pointedly remind the whaling nations of this agreement.

 




Since that time, the U.S. has added a potent new weapon
to its enforcement arsenal. The Packwood/Magnuson Amendment
to the Fishery Conservation and Management Act was enacted in
1979 to bring drastic and automatic sanctions against nations
not complying with IWC quotas. This law, which carries an
automatic loss of at least half of an offending nation's fishing
licenses in U.S. waters, has been used effectively to pressure
Spain, Taiwan and South Korea into compliance, and it has
undoubtedly convinced other nations to stay out of trouble.

The United States has taken on the role of enforcer for
the IWC. The 70% reduction in whaling since 1973 could not
have been achieved without the threat of U.S. sanctions. If
we are to stop sperm whaling, ban the cold harpoon, and finally,
to end all commercial whaling, it is absolutely vital that the

U.S. maintains the Pelly and Packwood/Magnuson Amendments in
full force.

If Japan or other whaling nations should file objections
in the coming weeks, or otherwise undermine whale conservation
efforts, the U.S. must preserve its credibility by reacting
swiftly and forcefully with certification of the offenders.

The Japanese whalers are saying that the U.S. would not
dare to impose any sanctions on such a huge trading partner.
They will be very sorry -— and very wrong -- if the American
people have any say in the issue. The overwhelming support
for your House Resolution calling for a whaling moratorium,

Mr. Chairman, and the statements by President Reagan and major
newspapers across the nation, are true indications of America's
resolve to save the whales.

COLD HARPOON

Now that the killing of the large whales has been drastically
reduced in recent years, the mainstay of most of the whaling
industry is the small minke whale. More than 80% of the kill
quota is now this species. The two Japanese and Soviet pelagic
fleets take 7,000 minkes exclusively during their annual circum-
navigations of Antarctica. Norway's and Brazil's coastal whalers
also concentrate exclusively on minkes, annually taking some
1,700 and 1,000 respectively. A few hundred minkes are taken
by the shore stations in Iceland, Japan and South Korea. Japan
is the major market for minke whale meat.

Until the 1970's, the relatively abundant minke whale was
largely ignored by the whalers in favor of the larger whales,
such as blue, fin and sei, which provide several times more meat
and oil per kill. Only when the large whales were driven to
what the whalers so economically call ”commercial extinction” --
the point where there are so few left of a particular species
that it is not worth hunting them -- did they begin turning
their harpoons on the 25—30 foot minkes.

That is the tragic history of commercial whaling. Each
successively smaller species was exploited to the brink of
extinction. The more abundant species subsidized the extraction
of the last yen or ruble or kroner from the depleted species.

 




So now we are down to the smallest of the great whales.
The blues and rights and bowheads and humpbacks are relict
populations, probably so depleted they can never reproduce
effectively. The sperm, fin and sei whales must now be protected,
too, for the whalers have severely reduced their numbers and
breeding capacity.

The minke whale is bearing the brunt of the last of the
whalers. The whaling industry is a curious, if deadly,
anachronism. Its products are no longer needed, yet it is so
specialized that it seemingly cannot convert gracefully to
some other line of business. All the killing and butchering
equipment and expertise must play itself out until the ships
are too rusty and the men are too old or the whales are gone.
Like many extractive industries, whaling is a demonstration
of the worst face of uncontrolled exploitation, a greedy rush
that exterminates not only the resource but the industry.

The minke whales are dying in record numbers, and their
deaths are all the more tragic because they suffer even more
cruelly and agonizingly than the larger whales. The whalers
use a harpoon with a non-explosive, or "cold,” tip to kill
minke whales. Without the grenade that causes massive
injuries and a quicker death, the minke whales must literally
struggle for prolonged periods, impaled on a massive steel spear
while they hemorrhage. To say the method of killing minke whales
is inhumane is an understatement. Even the grenade—tipped
harpoon is inhumane.

The cold harpoon is especially outrageous because it
violates the humane killing statutes of all civilized nations.
In Norway, for example, the law clearly requires quick and
efficient killing. But the Norwegian government, ever protective
‘of its powerful fishing interests, conveniently claims that
whales are exempted. There is an increasingly noisy debate
within Norway about this.

The whaling nations and the whalers claim they must
continue the cruel technique of minke killing for two primary
reasons. First, they claim that the minke whale is so small
that a grenade explosion inside the animal would destroy too
much of the meat. A grenade is expensive, too. So the whalers
have an economic rationale for continuing to use the barbaric
cold harpoon.

Secondly, there is a safety factor -- not for the whales,
of course, but for the whalers. To successfully kill with an
explosive harpoon, the grenade must be detonated inside the
whale. This is usually done with large whales. But the minke
is small enough that the harpoon normally penetrates all the
way through the animal, going in the back and coming out the
belly. The grenade used on large whales has a delayed fuse,
usually three or four seconds. But such a fuse would explode
the grenade in the water, on the other side of a minke whale.
Therefore, any grenade to kill the minke whale would need to
have an almost instantaneous fuse, detonating as the harpoon
entered the whale.

 




However, any quick-firing grenade is dangerous to the
harpooner and the whaling vessel. The firing of the harpoon
cannon might set off the grenade, sending the fist-sized shrapnel
in all directions. Or the grenade may explode upon impact with
the whale, also blasting shrapnel back toward the harpooner.

No wonder, then, that the Japanese harpooners testing a harpoon
tipped with highly-explosive penthrite are reportedly scared
out of their wits and extremely reluctant to use it.

The whalers are-getting a dose of their own deadly
medicine in this instance. For years they have dragged their
feet in developing a technology for more humane killing of the
minke whales. Now the IWC has set a deadline -- by the end of
1982 -— and the whalers are moaning that they cannot meet that.,

Japan, the Soviet Union, Norway and the other whaling
nations face a dilemma. They either begin using the costly and
dangerous explosive harpoon or they stop minke whaling. Or they
file an objection to the cold harpoon ban and exempt themselves
from the regulation.

This last option is a distinct possibility. Norway is
seriously considering an objection, under pressure from the
Norwegian Fishermen's Union. Japan, too, may object. If
either does file an objection by the 8 November deadline,
then other minke-whaling nations will likely follow. The
IWC will then be faced with substantial defiance of its
authority to regulate whaling.

It is ironic that one of the last battles in the whaling
war is over how the whales are killed, not whether they should
be killed at all.

OUTLAW WHALING

This year we have witnessed the frantic efforts of the
Japanese whalers to get thousands of tons of ill-gotten outlaw
whale meat to market in Tokyo. More than 5,000 tons of whale
meat has been sitting in a coldstore in Taiwan for one to two
years, the product of four Japanese-owned factory/catcher
whaling ships that operated for five years outside the INC.
The Japanese government, embarrassed by the scandal, finally
barred the illicit imports last year.

Taiyo Fishery Company, the major culprit in the outlaw
whaling, has become increasingly desperate to transfer the
whale meat to Japan, the only real market. Whale meat will
keep for only one to two years in freezers. The 5,000 tons
is valued at some $10 million.

A few months ago, Taiyo and its partners in Taiwan launched
a concerted campaign to persuade the United States and Japan
to authorize transfer of the mountain of meat. We have seen
two influential fisheries lawyers from the West Coast approach
the U.S. government on behalf of the Japanese and Taiwanese
interests. They have been seeking a U.S. promise not to impose
sanctions under the Pelly and Packwood/Magnuson Amendments if
the whale meat is transferred.

 




The approaches by the two lawyers, apparently independent
of each other, were made to members of Congress and officials
of the White House, State and Commerce Departments, and
other executive agencies.

We must raise a question of the propriety of these approaches.
According to the Justice Department, these two lawyers, both
American citizens, have not filed as foreign agents under the
provisions of the Foreign Agents Registration Act. It is our
understanding that lobbyists for foreign entities must register
before they deal with Congress.

The effort to sanitize the $10 million in whale meat was also
directed at the Administration. Unfortunately, the State
Department has apparently been sending mixed signals to Taiwan
and Japan. In a meeting with the Taiwanese interests recently,
they gave the impression that they expected the U.S. to quietly
look the other way while they cut a deal with Japan.

We are flatly opposed to any unrestricted transfer of that
illicit whale meat to Japan and urge this committee to strongly
urge the Reagan Administration to do likewise. The years of
outlaw whaling in Taiwan clearly diminished the effectiveness of
the IWC's whale conservation program. Taiwan halted its whaling
last year under threat of Pelly Amendment certification and the
resulting Packwood/Magnuson Amendment penalties. Shipment of the

meat to Japan now would be rewarding the outlaw whalers and

undermining the credibility of the U.S. laws that deter outlaw
whaling.

The only conceivable deal that might be acCeptable is for
the Japanese to agree to trade live whales -- from their future
,quotas -- for the dead whales that constitute the 5,000 tons.
According to Taiwanese sources, this represents about 1,000
whales. If the Japanese whalers, and specifically Taiyo Fishery
Company, want to sit down and bargain their quotas for the meat,
we would be willing to participate.

Unfortunately, Taiyo has shown little interest in halting
its illicit activities and the Japanese government has been
reluctant to crack down on this huge and powerful multinational
corporation. For years, Taiyo shipped thousands of tons of
frozen whale meat from the Taiwan operation to Japan by way
of South Korea, where it was relabeled "Product of Korea" to
make it legitimate. Only when Greenpeace exposed the trafficking
and the Tokyo press publicized it did the government, after
years of denying, finally bar the outlaw whale meat.

The Taiwan scandal comes on the heels of the infamous
Sierra pirate whaling operation in the Atlantic. This rogue
factory/catcher ship and two sister ships, owned by Taiyo and
Norwegian interests, massacred thousands of ”protected" whales
over a twelve—year period. The meat was shipped to Japan. The
operation continued unchecked until conservationists rammed the
Sierra in 1979 and unknown persons sank the ship in 1980. But
that was not the end of this saga, for some 800 metric tons of
whale meat from the last Sierra expeditionswas stranded in
Oporto, Portugal, much as the 5,000 tons is in Taiwan. Although

 




8

the owners tried to cut a deal in 1979 to get the meat to

Japan, it fell through from lack of support from the Japanese
government, the IWC and other interested parties. That whale
meat has been sitting in Oporto -- or so we thought. This
spring, Spain reported that its official export figures for
whale meat over the past year have been substantially lower
than Japan's official imports. To explain this discrepancy,
Spain wondered aloud at this year's IWC meeting if perhaps the
Sierra meat had been secretly laundered into Japan as "Product .
of Spain.” We urge the Congress to fully explore this possibility,
and, if it is true, to call for Pelly Amendment certification
of the participating nations.

Even in recent months, Taiyo Fishery Company has been .
operating still another clearly unregulated factory ship. This
is the Juan 9 in Chile. It was converted from a stern trawler
to a factory/catcher ship in 1977 by Taiyo, which declared to
the Japanese government at the time that, ”The purpose of such
procurement is its use for shrimp trawling off the coasts of

Panama." The ship was registered in Panama as a ”camaronero,"
a shrimp boat, but it showed up in Chile with a harpoon gun on
its bow and has since been hunting down hundreds of "protected"
whales under the direction of Taiyo employees. Although it
switched to the Chilean flag last year, as required by Chilean
law, it has remained under Taiyo control.

Taiyo apparently has great influence in the Chilean
government, for officials there have refused to acknowledge
the flagrantly illegal whaling of the Juan 9. The IWC banned
all factory ship whaling, except for minke whales around
Antarctica, beginning last year. And Chile's quota this year
is for sperm whales only. Yet the Juan 9 has been operating
quite openly in 1980 and 1981, shipping to Japan hundreds of
.tons of baleen whale meat.

Chile should be certified under the Pelly Amendment’and
sanctions imposed for this defiance of the whaling treaty.
Likewise, Japan should be condemned for allowing Taiyo Fishery
Company to operate this illegal whaling operation. The United
States should ask the Japanese government why it has been
allowing all the obviously illegal whale meat to be imported
from Chile.

Taiyo Fishery Company has been seeking to expand its
voracious outlaw whaling even this year. According to sources
in Portugal, Taiyo officials early this year approached the
owners of a small whaling station in Madeira and offered to
buy the facility, where a few dozen sperm whales are butchered
each year after being killed with the traditional hand-held
harpoons. Portugal is not a member of the IWC. The annual
take of several hundred sperm.whales in Madeira and the Azores
is a major cause of the depletion of the species in the North
Atlantic.

Taiyo was obviously seeking the Madeira whaling station
to replace the highly profitable Sierra operation. With a
fleet of catcher boats, Taiyo could rapidly exterminate the
Spain-Portugal—British Isles stock of fin whales. Fortunately,
the Portuguese owners of the Madeira station refused the
Taiyo offer.

 




The outlaw whaling and outright cheating by IWC member
nations will continue unless strong pressure is brought to
bear on the guilty parties by both the U.S. and the IWC.

The IWC seems unwilling to extract even a minimal penalty,
such as subtracting an overkill from the next year's quota, or
reducing quotas for nations that continually refuse to provide
scientific data to the Commission. Spain this year was
exposed for taking huge numbers of undersized whales -- more
than one-third of the total announced take in 1980. And strong
evidence that the Spanish whalers had taken 432 fin whales, not
the allowed 220, was not refuted. What did the IWC do about
this? It gave Spain a quota of 210 fin whales next year based
on historical average take, because the scientific data about
past catches was non-existent or totally inadequate.

We submit for the record a copy of Outlaw Whalers 1981,
a report by Greenpeace on the Spanish violations and other
violators around the world. It documents in word and photo
the ongoing subversion of IWC whale conservation rules. An
addendum exposes a factory ship whaling operation secretly
established in the Bonin Islands this year by the Japanese
whalers. The IWC banned all factory ship whaling in the
North Pacific beginning in 1980. Because of this, Japan's
shore stations could not take all of the Bryde's whale quota
of 510. So the whalers built themselves a "shore station"
on a large barge and towed it to the Japanese-owned Bonins
(called Ogasawara Islands by Japan), a chain of atolls 600
miles south of Tokyo, where Bryde's whales congregate each
summer.

 

Catcher boats operating from this floating factory

. have harpooned hundreds of Bryde's whales already this year.
Greenpeace believes it is taking 600 to 800 whales, far over
the total IWC quota even without counting those taken along
Japan's coast by the real shore stations.

If Japan is allowed to get away with its phony "shore
station," we might see these efficient, economical floating
factories being towed all over the seven seas, liquidating
various remnant whale populations.

This is only the latest example of the remarkable
resourcefulness and tenacity —- almost a missionary zeal ——
the Japanese whalers exhibit in their war against the whales.

ENDING WHALING

The ultimate objective we are seeking is to end commercial
whaling. There is no doubt the industry is dying, primarily
because it has liquidated much of the resource, thus making
large-scale whaling uneconomical. Pressure from within the
IWC and by the U.S. government has forced the whaling nations
to reduce the rate of killing. And the international conservation
community has mobilized world opinion to an unprecedented degree.

 




   
 
 
  
     
    
    
    
        
      
   
   
   
 

10

 
 

The major roadblock to halting the slaughter through the
IWC has been the requirement for a three—quarters majority for
voting changes in quotas. Several times since 1973, the
Commission has considered proposals for a moratorium on all
commercial whaling. Each time, the whaling nations were able
to defeat the move by banding together as a minority of more
than 25%.

 
 

The whalers' percentage has been steadily, inexorably,
dwindling, however, with the admission of new, non-whaling
nations to the IWC. Just in the past year, for example, we
have seen India, China (PRC), Jamaica, Costa Rica, St. Vincent,
St. Lucia, Dominica, Uruguay and the Philippines join. Egypt
and several other nations are expected soon. The IWC is
becoming a truly representative international body, focussing
not only on whaling itself but the future of the whales that
live in the global commons, the sea.

      
    
   
    
      
   
       
   
   
   
     
    
       
 
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
   

It seems inevitable, then, that a three—quarters majority
will be reached by the anti-whaling faction one year soon, and
a moratorium.will be adopted. That this has not been achieved
so far can be credited to the extraordinary efforts and tactics
of Japan. We should examine the nature of Japan's bitter
defense of commercial whaling.

The Japanese whalers would have us believe that their
whaling is an important and traditional industry. In fact, it
is bankrupt, surviving only with direct and indirect subsidies
from the government. High fuel costs have made Antarctic
whaling uneconomic, but one fleet still sails. Not only does
the government pay the fuel bills, but it buys most of the
whale meat at an artificially high price to feed to such groups
as convicts, soldiers and schoolchildren. As I pointed out

~ in testimony earlier this year, it would be far more practical
and economiCal to buy beef from Australia or lamb from New
Zealand. The size of the actual workforce in Japan's whaling
industry is less than 500. The Japanese propagandists claim
there are 50,000 workers, but that includes every market clerk
who sells a kilo of whale meat and every family member of each
whaler.

The startling fact is that most of the whale products
consumed in Japan come from non-Japanese whalers. There would

be virtually no commercial whaling by the Soviet Union, South
Korea, Peru, Chile, Brazil, Iceland, Spain and Norway if Japan
wasn't paying a high price for their whale meat. Japan doesn't
really need this whale meat, since it can readily afford to buy
alternate foodstuffs elsewhere on the international market.

There is nothing traditional about Japanese whaling,
either, except for a few small villages that have been harpoon-
ing a few score whales annually much as our Eskimos have.

Japan got into large-scale whaling in the 1930's when it
purchased several foreign fleets. Even then, their purpose

was not to feed Japan. Rather, it was to raise hard currency
to finance the invasion and development of China. A law
specifically prohibited the importation of any whale products




from the pelagic fleets. The whale oil was sold in Europe
and billions of pounds of whale meat were wastefully dumped
into the sea by the Japanese whalers during the 1930's.

Only after World War II did Japan begin large-scale
consumption of whale meat, and only then because the war-ravaged
nation was destitute and under orders from General MacArthur
to develop this food source. Today, there is little apparent
market—place demand for whale meat in Japan. Most goes to
institutions, where there is no choice in what is served.

Whale meat now constitutes a minute fraction of one percent
of the protein consumption of the Japanese people.

MERCURY POISONING

We must raise a serious health issue regarding the
consumption of some whale meat, an issue that is being
purposefully ignored by the Japanese government. Large
quantities of mercury—laden sperm whale meat are still being
marketed openly in Japan. Although both Japanese and foreign
scientists have issued specific warnings against eating sperm
whale meat, and backed these warnings up with scientific
studies, the Japanese government has refused to even consider
the health risk.

We are witnessing a callous Japanese government conniving
with the greedy whalers to place the health of the bankrupt
whaling industry ahead of the well-being of thousands of
Japanese citizens. This is particularly remarkable in the
land that first documented the effects of large4scale mercury
poisoning and gave us a new term, Minimata disease, to describe
,the horrific effects of this toxic metal.

I submit for the record a statement presented to the IWC
meeting this year by the Whale Center, a U.S. cetacean research
organization that has investigated the mercury problem.

Attached to the statement is a scientific study by three Japanese
scientists and Ronn Storro-Patterson of the Whale Center which
documents that sperm.whale meat contains five to six times the
acceptable levels of mercury under both Japanese and World

Health Organization standards.

Some sperm whale "bacon" consumed in Japan has been found
to have mercury levels forty times the acceptable levels. There
has been a similar government cover-up of mercury poisoning
from dolphin meat in Japan. Thousands of these small cetaceans
are slaughtered along the coast each year and sold for human
consumption.

Both sperm whales and dolphins are high up the food chain.
Their bodies concentrate the mercury that is found naturally in
the sea and consumed by smaller organisms, which in turn get
eaten by the sperm whales and dolphins.

 




THE FUTURE

The United States government should be planning right now
for next year's battles at the IWC. The special meeting on
sperm whales is less than six months away. Japan is surely
twisting arms already around the world -— and lobbying here
in Washington to water-down U.S. policy -- in preparation
for that meeting as well as the regular annual meeting of
the IWC next summer. In recent years, the U.S. has been
caught flat-footed by the superb groundwork laid by Japan.

In particular, the U.S. should be encouraging more nations
with interests in protecting marine ecosystems to join the
Commission. And we should be using our considerable influence
on the whaling nations to get out of the business and vote
against whaling. Chile, for example, may shut down the
illegal factory/catcher ship Juan 9 this year. But Chile
may continue to vote with Japan because of the heavy influence
of the giant Japanese fishing companies in Chile. Spain is
another country that should be actively encouraged to end
whaling, particularly in view of the widespread violations
by the whaling company there.

An encouraging development in Spain this year was the
arrival of an Icelandic observer to oversee the whaling
operation. Such independent observers are needed in every
whaling nation to ensure compliance with rules and quotas.
Unfortunately, the U.S. and other non-whaling nations have
given very little effort or financial support to an observer
program. We urge this committee to press the Commerce and
State Departments for an active and well—funded role in‘

expanding the observer program.

Tom Garrett proved he is the most knowledgeable and
effective whaling commissioner we have. He should be kept
on in this post and authorized to begin planning immediately
for the two IWC meetings in 1982.

Finally, we urge the Congress to continue its active
oversight of U.S. whaling policy. You can help sustain
the momentum achieved this year at the INC. The American
people want to see an end to the commercial killing of these
fascinating marine mammals. The efforts of you and your
colleagues, Mr. Chairman, will ensure that the whales survive.

### ###### #

 




