TO THE WOMEN OF AMERICA

A shameful stigma has been put upon the American woman.

She is charged at the bar of public opinion, and of her own
conscience, with openly maintaining the foulest honor in all
history, namely, the torturing to death everv yea1 in steel—
traps of millions upon millions of God’s innocent creatures
. that she may indulge in the luxury of 11ea1i11g fur in every
conceivable fashion.

If the furs she wears were culled from the ﬁelds as is grain,
without conscious hurt, this might be regarded only as a silly
craze.

But when we remember that, south of the Arctic, there is no
need for fur, for the woodsman of the north, even in 11 inter
.wears none; when we are called upon e1 e11 year to 111tneSs the
trapping of many millions of fur— bearing animals, 11i11e——te11ths
of which are literally tortured to death in the common steel—
trap; and that this goes on year afteI year, 111thout even a
protest from her who wears these furs, must we not hide our
heads in shame and admit that the American woman stands
before the tribunal of the world GUILTY, AS-CHARGED?

If you doubt the appalling number of: these miserable victims
of needless fashion, just look out of your windows and search
for a woman whose garments do not bear fur in some guise, or
endeavor to purchase a suitable outdoor wrap without some
fur upon it.

Women of America keep your fuis if 1011 11ill but help us,
in the name of justice and compassion to do a11ay with that
foul instrument of tortuie the steel- -trap, so that. at 1e1y least
you may have the blessed relief of knowing that the furs you
11 ear are not the direct result of needless agony, of the mass-
.martry dom of. countless legions of God’s innocent dumb crea—
tures! '

To accomplish this, and thus remove the stigma put upon the
American woman, we have formed a national association, the
ANTI-STEEL-TRAP LEAGUE, Inc., the object of which is
to cause the passing by the legislature of each state of a law,
not againsttrapping or the wearing of fur or the ﬁghting of
vermin, but AGAINST ALL USE OF THE TORTURING
VARIETIES OF TRAP.

The Founder of this League, the late Commander Edward
Breck, of Washington, was an-able, inspiring and indefati-
gable leader. He was a man of science and sane views, yet
ﬁlled with the spirit of the crusader. He inspired conﬁdence
in this work We call upon you now to help this League of
his founding 111th your advice, your personal efforts and your
substance.

 




 

 

NOTE

The response to the ﬁrst edition of this appeal was
nothing less than remarkable. More than that,
within ten months from the incorporation of our
League in 1925, a law against the use of the steel--
trap was actually passed by one state, South Caro—
lina (all honor to it!) and the way paved to success
in other states. In 1930 Massachusetts passed the
law—a referendum measure—with 300,000 majority.

Will not every true American woman do something,
either FINANCIALLY or ACTIVELY, to make this

great moral campaign a triumph?

Another indication of our inﬂuence is, that the
U. 8. Biological Survey announced that 20% less
fur was caught in 1926. This was the year follow-
ing our incorporation, and means, of course, furs
sold, since there are and can be, no adequate statistics
regarding the fur taken by the half million trappers
of this continent, a large proportion of which is
spoiled and never marketed.

Commander and Mrs. Breck were able to get a
series of terribly convincing proofs of the atrocious
barbarity of the steel—trap in the form of photographs
and moving pictures, at great expense of money and
trouble.

The League has copies of these reels which may be
shown all over the country, especially in States where
our law is soon coming before the Legislature.

Send the League money. Remember the words of
Edward Everett Hale:

I am only ONE
But still I AM one
I cannot do EVERYTHING
But still I can do SOMETHING
And‘because I cannot do EVERYTHING
I will not refuse to do the SOMETHING that I can do.

 

 

 




Women of America, you have won your freedom. You have
secured for yourselves equal representation at the polls. You
possess the balance of power. WHAT WILL YOU DO WITH
IT?

Will you not help us to piesent our righteous cause ade—
quately before the legislative bodies of our land, and then,
with determined hearts and a united front, blot from existence
this shameful indictment of needless barbarity with which we
stand charged?

MAY GOD WILL IT!

ﬁw

Mrs. Gertrude Atherton

ﬂ“ “Mﬁ ”/MEK/e

Mrs. Minnie Maddern Fiske, Associate American Humane Assn.

W}; W

Mrs. Gifford Pinchot

Mrs. Duncan V. Fletcher, Vice-President

\

26147 if

Mrs. John B. Henderson, Vice-President

 

 




State Committees of the League are forming in all States.
Information in regard to the movement in the several states
will be gladly given, by theLeague’s headquarters in VVash-
ington. '

It is conﬁdently hoped that many States will follow the
glorious and righteous example of South Carolina, Georgia and
Masachusetts in passing a law against the atrocious steel—trap.

Write for information and literature to

THE ANTI-STEEL-TRAP LEAGUE, Inc.
1731 K Street Northwest
Washington, D. C.

Incorporated under the laws of the District of Columbia

 

EDWARD BRECK, M.A. PH.D.

FOUNDER

 

 

 

PRESIDENT

EDWARD BRECK

SECRETARY-TREASURER

JAMES P. BRIGGS

VICE-PRESIDENTS
MRS. JOHN B. HENDERSON
MRS. D. U. FLETCHER
MISS E. MABEL CLARK
'MRS. W. L. B. HILL
MISS LUCY FURMAN
F. F. V,AN DE WATER
MRS. MARGARET DELAND
DALLAS LORE SHARP
WALTER A. DYER
GEORGE ARLISS
HENRY R. CAREY

HONORARY VICE-PRESIDENT
HON. PERCIVAL P. BAXTER

COUNTESS OF WARWICK_

(NO PAID OFFICIALS)

 




