Humane Education
In the Classroom

‘ V“ ,Aﬂ,‘ < - ‘ ’2?” ‘_ c, y x x e. A - - u. ~.;z,. V ~ V . . f
am." . . A a ‘ .i
L

transcript of a
conference at
Newark State College,
Union, N.J.,

April 5, 1962

sponsored by

Newark State College and

The Humane Society of the U.S.,
New Jersey State Branch

 

 

 




published by the Education Department,

The Humane Society of the United States

additional copies will be supplied
without charge, upon request, to teachers,

educators, libraries and humane societies

THE HUMANE SOCIETY OF THE UNITED STATES

1145 Nineteenth St., N.W. Washington 6, D. C.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

PREFACE

There is never ending debate about the goals sought, and to be
sought, in the education of children. And, as every teacher knows,
there is constant change in methods of teaching.

The conference reported in this booklet was concerned with
both goals and methods.

Participants in the conference represented two major groups:
professional educators and the major national humane societies
of the United States. Spokesmen for the humane societies advanced
the thesis that there is need and opportunity in the schools, both
public and private, for a new dimension of “humane” education—
not for a mere admonition to “be kind to animals” but for education
in ethical qualities and for encouragement, at profound psychological

levels, of a capacity for empathy.

The conference was devoted to examination of this thesis and
to discussion of the possibility of its practical application in the
classroom.

 




THE CONFEREES

Dr. Herbert E. Scuorzo, Vice—president, Newark Teachers Associa-
tion; teacher, Mount Vernon School, Newark. Moderator.

 

Mrs. Anna Daines, member of Executive Committee, Department of
Elementary-Kindergarten-Nursery Education, National Education Asso-
ciation; teacher, Washington School, Metuchen, N. J.

 

Miss Leonora Feuchter, President, New Jersey Education Associa—
tion; Vice-principal, Union High School, Union, N. J.

 

Miss Rita Jaeohy, President, Department of Classroom Teachers and
Director, National Education Association; teacher, James F. Murray
School, Jersey City, N. J.

Miss Helen E. Jones, Executive Director, The National Catholic So—
ciety for Animal Welfare, Washington, D. C.

Dr. James T. Mehorter, Professor of psychology, School of Educa-
tion, University of Vermont, Burlington, Vt.; Director, The Humane
Society of the United States.

Mr. Fred Myers, Executive Director, The Humane Society of the
United States, Washington, D. C.; Vice—President, World Federation
for Protection of Animals.

Dr. Robert Poppendieck, specialist in teacher education, Ofﬁce of
Education, U. S. Department of Health, Education and Welfare, Wash—
ington, D. C.

 

Mrs. Christine Stevens, President, The Animal Welfare Institute, New
York, N. Y.

Sister M. Veroniee, O.S.F., writer, teacher and supervisor in paro-
chial schools and colleges, Washington, D. C.

Dr. Herbert Samenfeld, Assistant Director of Student Personnel,
Newark State College, Union, N. J., host for the College.

Mr. Jacques Siehel, Union, N. J ., President, New Jersey Branch Of
The Humane Society of the United States and Director of the national
society, host for the HSUS. .

 

 




 

 

 

 

Humane Education
In the Classroom

transcript of a conference at

Newark State College, April 5, 1962

sponsored by Newark State College and
The Humane Society of the U.S., New Jersey State Branch

DR. SCUORZO: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I wonder
if you would all take seats, please. I would like to call to order this
: conference on Humane Education.

I ask Mr. Jacques Sichel, President of the Humane Society of the
United States, New Jersey Branch, to open our seminar with an intro-
ductory statement.

MR. SICHEL: Thank you very much, Doctor Scuorzo. About two
years ago the New Jersey Branch of The Humane Society of the United
States decided to compile a listing of available teaching materials for a
humane education program in the schools. We sent out about 130
letters, asking educators of every state and many humane and educa-
tional organizations for information about relevant courses, guides or
curriculum outlines and about ways found effective in presenting such
programs. I will read three of the many answers.

The ﬁrst one is from the State Department of Education, Jefferson
City, Missouri:

“Dear Mr. Sichel: The Missouri State Department of Education has
not published speciﬁc materials dealing with humane work. In fact, this
phase of education is a blind spot in most of our Missouri schools. Sorry
that I cannot be of further help to you. Sincerely yours, Raymond A.
Roberts, Director of Curriculum.”

The second one is from the State of Colorado, Department of Edu-
cation, Denver:

“Dear Mr. Sichel: Your letter of August 23, addressed to Executive
Secretary, State Department of Education, has been called to my atten-

3

 




'> <.‘.’-"‘ ‘._, “7...“, . aha, .. A-m
.241; -a.m_..A 13$...” .5. ‘

:33er ‘

5.1.35;

—.--

n
J.
l:
l .‘i
r '.
[1' ,
c 1
l:-

I

i!
)

‘

 

\

 

 

tion. Unfortunately, we have developed no instructional materials in
the area of humane work. We would, however, be interested in receiv-
ing sample materials which your Society develops. Sincerely yours, Leo
P. Black, Assistant Commissioner, Ofﬁce of Instructional Services.”

The third one is from the State of Alabama, Department of Educa-
tion, Montgomery, Alabama.

“Dear Mr. Sichel: Your letter of August 9, addressed to the Execu-
tive Secretary of the State Department of Education, has been referred
to me. We are glad to enclose a copy of Section 546, Title 52, School
Code of Alabama, 1940, which deals with humane education. We have
no study guides or curriculum materials on this topic.”

The law cited requires the school to provide humane education.

Further discussions with teachers convinced us that there is a lack
of understanding between the humane movement and the teaching pro-
fession. It seemed to us that representatives of both groups should be '
encouraged to meet and to become acquainted with the work of the
other. This was the origin of today’s conference.

Two challenges confront you today:

One, humane organizations must. present their ideology in a fashion
sufﬁciently rational and intelligent to be acceptable to the education
profession;

Two, in attempting to bring humane education to our children,
humanitarians have frequently failed to consult with educators on
theories and techniques in the modern classroom. To integrate the
humane ideology successfully with the educational processes, they must
ﬁrst understand the working methods of the teacher.

Neither of these problems will be solved completely today; you
have been invited in the hope that you will be able to clarify these
challenges and to point the way toward the solution.

And now, with a great deal of pleasure and for the record, I would
like to introduce you all. Next to me is Miss Rita J acoby, an eighth
grade teacher in a Jersey City public school, a New Jersey Director on
the National Board of the National Education Association, and President
of the Department of Classroom Teachers of the NEA—the Number
One classroom teacher of the United States.

We are still waiting for Dr. James T. Mehorter, who is a clinical

psychologist and a professor on the faculty of the School of Education
of the University of Vermont.

4

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

Next is Mrs. Anna Daines, who teaches second grade in the public
schools in Metuchen, N. J. Mrs. Daines is on the Executive Board of
the Department of Elementary—Kindergarten and Nursery Education of
the NEA.

Next to Mrs. Daines is Miss Helen Jones, Executive Secretary of the
National Catholic Society for Animal Welfare. Miss Jones before that
was the Education Director of the Humane Society of the United States.

Opposite me is Dr. Robert Poppendieck, a specialist in teacher edu-
cation of the Ofﬁce of Education, United States Department of Health,
Education and Welfare.

Next to him is Mrs. Roger Stevens, President of the Animal Welfare
Institute in New York and a Director of Friends of Animals. I think
she is classic proof that if you apply right child psychology you produce
a humanitarian. She is a daughter of Dr. Robert Gesell, former chair-
man of the Department of Physiology of the University of Michigan and
a great humanitarian himself.

Next to her is Sister M. Veronice, a writer, a teacher, and supervisor
in parochial schools and colleges, who is currently busy in Washington
earning her doctorate.

Next to her is Miss Leonora E. Feuchter, my neighbor in this town,
which happens to be my home town, Vice—Principal of the high school
in Union and President of the New Jersey Education Association.

Next to her is Mr. Fred Myers, Executive Director of the Humane
Society of the United States.

And ﬁnally, next to me is your moderator, Dr. Herbert Scuorzo, a
sixth grade teacher in the public school system in Newark, New Jersey,
and the Vice-President and hoping—to—be-President of the Newark Teach—
ers Association. He will be your moderator.

DR. SCUORZO: Vice-presidents usually hope to be president, I
think. (Laughter)

Well, to lead this off, I think it would be well if anyone who wishes
to do so would make a statement of background or principle or philoso-
phy that might give us some information on which to work in this
Conference. If you wish to volunteer a statement, we are open for that
kind of thing at this time.

MRS. STEVENS: I will volunteer.

 




F l
“i
t:
i

2i.

i

""2"

a.

W 4~
{1.4% ﬁ‘r‘c‘

., m:
. 1,;

:w- Ag". ., . ,a « ,.
.1...- rw; .93.»: ..

a. 1
. k L

 

 

 

 

First, I wish to thank you, Mr. Sichel, for making this meeting pos-
sible. It is a wonderful opportunity to discuss humane education and
that is a matter which I consider to be of the gravest importance for the
development of our civilization.

Judging by a survey we have recently been conducting of users of
our manuals, “First Aid and Care of Small Animals” and “Humane
Biology Projects,” which we provide free to teachers, many teachers feel
the same way. A second grade teacher says: “I think the teacher in our
public schools is in a wonderful position to advance love and respect for

life through dealing with boys and girls directly, teaching them the
proper attitude toward small animals.”

Many teachers and Scout leaders tell us that their “First Aid and
Care of Small Animals” is worn out with use. One of these says: “Par-

ents told me of an increase in kindness to animals and birds in their own
families.”

Turning to the high school level and the use of our manual, “Humane
Blology Projects,” we receive repeated comments to the effect that stu-

dents learn from it to appreciate animal life more and are less inclined to
destroy living things.

.The warm expressions of appreciation that we receive from teachers
pralsing these manuals, and the constant demand for them from all parts
of the country, demonstrate the very widespread interest in humane
education literature at both the elementary and secondary school levels.
The great problem, as we see it, is that there is not enough good mate-
r1a1 available. We have distributed on request more than 50,000 copiﬁiS
of these manuals, which are provided one to a teacher. Were materials
avallable for each student in the classes of interested teachers, the vol-
ume would be far greater, of course, and we have received numerous

suggestions that we prepare such publications for elementary school
particularly.

We hope to bring back from this conference many ideas for humane
educatlonal teaching aids, for I know that they will be used if they are
glad: avallabie. Writers and educators of outstanding humaneness and
(3:321:23; mlnd pomt the WaY- As Rachel Carson wrote: “Only as a
can h' h areness and TeVCFence for the wholeness of life are developed

IS umanity t0 hls own kind reach its full development.” As Dr.

W: W- Armistead, Dean of the College of Veterinary Medicine of Michi-
gan State University recently stated;

certaﬁithéugh the interest 0f high school students in biological research
y ls commendable and should be encouraged, living animals

6




 

 

 

sometimes are mistreated in laboratory exercises. Such practices must
be condemned by all legitimate scientists who respect life and under-
stand research. There is no justiﬁcation for conducting in the secondary
school an experiment which would cause pain to an animal.

“Secondary school administrators should insist that every experiment
involving live animals fulﬁll at least the following conditions:

“1. No experiment using live animals should be attempted un-
less comfortable quarters, adequate food and water, and humane
treatment can be provided.

‘3

“2. Such an experiment should have as a clearly deﬁned objec-
tive the teaching of some biological principle which cannot be taught
effectively without animals.

“3. Important collateral objectives of every such experiment
should be to train students in the proper handling of animals and
to teach reverence for life in any form.

“4. If the school faculty includes nobody with training in the
proper care of laboratory animals, the services of such a person on a
consulting basis should be sought. Often a local veterinarian is
happy to offer this kind of help.”

DR. SCUORZO: Thank you, Mrs. Stevens. Is there anyone else
who would like to deliver a brief statement of philosophy or background
before we get into the questions?

(Professor Mehorter at this time entered the conference.)

MR. MYERS: I think I would like to offer a comment of that kind.
I wish very much to spend most of this day listening to the professional
educators around the table rather than talking, but because the Humane
Society representatives are responsible for initiating this conference, I
think that we owe it to our more professionally qualiﬁed colleagues to
say why we thought such a meeting was to be desired.

The basic question for discussion today seems to me to be whether
we, the adults of America, are giving to our children the education that
we truly desire for them—and I am using the word “education” in the
broad sense with which all of us are familiar, that of the concept that
includes the total environment and conditioning of the child, not merely
his indoctrination with facts. If we are not doing all that we really
believe to be desirable for our children (which personally I believe we
are not) then we have the, not subsidiary but corollary, question before
us of what should be done.

 




was.

‘ ”E32227; $235323: 5;- f ..

-*-;a=.‘: jinxiiégi 2-..»,2 ..

’3' {7 av

¢r-‘ .-"."~ .-_‘ A“-
{a ﬁr?» .yr ._ 3, -é.‘ c

ti
m
H!
'h
.i
t
H‘
.',-‘
.l
\l
.
ll

 

 

m3m-

 

Lest 1 seem to place too great a value on my own opinions about
this, I would like to quote several authorities to whom we all will listen
respectfully.

For example, Dr. James Bryant (‘onant. who said that “unless the
educational process includes at each level of maturity some continuing
contact with those ﬁelds in which value judgments are of prime impor-
tance, it must fall far short of the ideal. The student in high school, in
college and in graduate school must be concerned. in part

the words ‘right and wrong.‘ in both the ethical
sense.”

at least, with
and the mathematical

In the book published under Dr. ('onant‘s
“General Education in a Free Society."
document and in some respects dated.
think is not dated, that:

aegis or supervision,
which is now a rather elderly
it was said. with feeling thatI

“Education must look to the whole man. It It
education aims at the good m

By a good man is meant one

as been wisely said that
an. the good citizen and the useful man.
who possesses an inner integration, poise
and ﬁrmness which in the long run comes from an adequate philosophy
of life. The aim of liberal education is the development of the whole

man and human nature involves ethics and sentiments as well as the
intellect.”

One further separate quote from that book. which I suppose every-

one around this table knows was the result of collaboration of an
emment committee:

“Education is not merely the imp

- arting of knowledge but the cultl-
vatron of certain aptitudes and

attitudes in the mind of the young.’

Jim Mehorter, I hope, will have quite a bit to say later in the meeting
about the method by which

b attitudes are created. To me that seemstO
e central 1n thls discussion. Dr. Erich Fromm along this same line
once asked:

What is it that makes a society viable. allowing it to respOnd to
change? There is no si

all b mple answer. but clearly the society must above
(? able to dlscrlminate its Primary values from its secondary values
and instltutions.”

And one last additional
my own thoughts on this matt
the Umversity of Pennsylvani

We who are engaged in the life of thought are likely to assume that
the key to an und ”

and of h 6rStanding of the world is knowledge. both of the paSt
t e f ; that if We had that knowledge we would also have

authority. all of these expressing exactly

er. This time I quote Dr. Loren Eisley Of
a.

uture

8

 

 

 




 

 

 

wisdom. It is not my intention to decry learning. It is only to say that
we must come to understand that learning is endless and that nowhere
does it lead us behind the existent world. It may reduce the prejudices
of ignorance, set our bones, build our cities, but in itself it will never
make us ethical men. Thus, as society improves physically we assume
the improvement of the individual and are all the more horriﬁed at those
mass movements of terror which have so typiﬁed the ﬁrst half of this
century.”

Those of us who work, we hope thoughtfully, in the humane societies
of the country, believe that all of those thoughts are pertinent to the
relationship between our work and those of the professional educators.
We are not exclusively societies for the protection of animals. Indeed,
I think that the much higher and more important concept is that we are
societies for the betterment of people. The problems on which we work
are those which determine whether the inner man and the inner child
will be balanced, sane, happy, creative, all of the things that we want
the people of the next generation to be.

I hope that during the rest of this conference we of the humane
societies will be able to develop this in the rational way to which Jacques
Sichel referred and I hope that, in turn, from the professional educators
around the table we will receive suggestions about how we might work
together for an end that is mutually a desire and a goal.

DR. SCUORZO: Thank you, Mr. Myers. Professor Mehorter,
would you like to make any opening comment?

PROFESSOR MEHORTER: Merely to second Mr. Myers’ sug-
gestion that we of the humane societies are in what is ultimately an
educational campaign—and I think this is very important. Our work is
not merely to stop cruelty to animals. Our work goes much further and
higher than this. It is an educational crusade all the time. I think we
are going to one day be successful.

DR. SCUORZO: Thank you. Sister Veronice, would you like to
comment?

SISTER VERONICE: Yes. I would like to make a few points. I
think that Mr. Myers has set the pace for us very well and I want just
to give a few highlights for consideration.

I think that if we are seeking ways and means of promoting humane
education in the school we should endeavor to look at it from various
large viewpoints.

 




 

l n it of all, \kt' Htlhl hy yottsytons of tlty soeial agencies that ar

1 two tll‘lt' thy home, the \yhool. tlty yhtttyh and the istate. e
\ytontlh, l hyltyxy that tlty tiytwti of the teacher is inher‘ °

t. '1! .tt'yttytyx, not k‘\\‘lll\l\t‘lk tn tlty ~a‘lttitil. lhe teacher istgetrtlgitial“

'r' tintioitant in thy [WtMttt ot tlty t.tthyt and mother and the persorii

wt thy~ tlnnyh or thy tyln'ton. oti'atnxatton to \\hieh the child belongs

.Efltl .'.l‘~l‘ til the state. \tm. ;t\ l.tt .ts the teacher it] [lie SCltOOl goes I

that hyt haykt'tonnd .ntd hyt ytlnyation (and here I am using

is tcntnnny tyttn. \xhtyh l hopy thy lll.t\ellllllt‘ group will excuse) in-

tltultttt' ltt't H\\tl [\‘tMtttulllk. \\Illt ll» yottyotttitattt problems and her

i111:id;:i‘;:lilll::’.iif:;”Mm”in“! thyn. \yyontllX. hyt attitude towards humane

. . . [‘llltlt nnpoitanty l tlnnk that we might pOSSIbly

that that t\ a \yt_\, \yt_\ important laytot'. And then. thirdly, her

mart t; tttttttxtlulttiys :tttd ltyt Hptttttttttttttys Itt promote humane education

:ri tltt‘ \l.l‘\\lf‘f‘lll and :ttllttllt', hyt yhtltliyn and among her associates in

l‘. ll‘l“l\‘\\lflll.

lhyn. l hylty\y also that thy [‘lttlt‘\\lttll;ll preparation that is given
'Y‘t llk‘ toilette is of great importanyy l‘et‘ullxt‘ that makes the teacher.
lhy .tlllllltlt‘\ \xhieh thy pt't‘le\\ttt\ in thy tyaeherx college or in th€
”NV-VIM}. \Hll promote are twin}: to :ttl'yyt thy teaeher‘s future output.

lt‘tltlltlﬁ. \W tiltinot \tork \klllltttll lt‘t\l\ and so the tools of educa-
71"” “V W'.‘ important. lﬂtl‘ooks. ax m it\ humane education is
\“llkk'lllk'kl. are \xoefnll} laykine. 'lhyry ha\ been a certain amount of
utotk tn eyttain \eienee tyuhtmky~ yttnk- “mt hooks are very helpful,
.llltl I think there is a great field for small ttnit te\t\' on humane education
m yll .t\ tests. I hope that l ean speak a little hit further later on about
lt‘\l\ lwyyanxy I think these gixy lt\ a wry tine pieture of the Child’s
twnonahis and how it fttnetions. l ;t\ll\, I call to mind the Child himself,
whom we are ”ting to ettdeaVor to intliignuy How does humane educa-
tion .ttlyet his persottality'.’ \Vltat does it do for the child. as Mr. Myers
tin-\xtioiiytl \xhen quoting (‘onant. and MM humane education make the
yhtld .t hytter functioning indiVidual with a \xell formulated self-concept

and outlook upon the world around him'.’
If we yottld anmer all these questions todaV. We would be Very
happy

what yOU have

DR, 8(‘l'()R/.(): Thank you. Sister. In relation to
an that 1

mid. this nwning will lilrgcly by deVoted. if we follow the pl

. - - . . , e—
lt.t\e intended. to informing the edueators regarding the humane mOV
at we can

tnynt. 'l‘hix afternoon. I hope. we can get into specifics on wh
‘ on cer—

tlo to further humane education in the schools. Teacher educatl
tainlx l\ one very important facet of it.

It)




Would you like to comment, Miss Jones? Dr. Poppendieck?

DR. POPPENDIECK: Not at this point. I came primarily to learn
ﬁrst.

DR. SCUORZO: We are all in the same boat. Miss J acoby.

MISS J ACOBY: I just have one comment. Listening to the previ-
ous speakers, into my mind has come the idea that this will have to
be approached from two different viewpoints. That is, of the children
who live in suburban and rural communities and those children in the
urban situations because there is a deﬁnite lack, I think, of opportunity
for encouraging the humane attitudes in the cities because children don’t
have the animals there and I think this presents a big problem to all
of us.

DR SCUORZO: Right, Thank you, Miss Jacoby. Miss Feuchter.

MISS FEUCHTER: Well, some of the thoughts I had have already
been covered. I have the deﬁnite feeling that attitudes, ethics, morals,
and so forth are elements of character that are very hard—you can’t
teach them. We have to set examples. We have to understand the chil-
dren. I believe very thoroughly that textbooks alone will not be our
answer because we have many students who can answer all the questions
but their attitudes and their actions are a completely different thing.
They are smart enough to know what the right answers are but they don’t
practice What they should do.

I have a feeling, too, that the schools at one time were geared just to
teach the three R’s and we left a great deal to the home, the church
and the state. We are ﬁnding more responsibility thrust upon us each
year and now we are facing many problems other than mastery of the
subject. We are facing problems of attitudes and ethics, morals. If
anybody can tell me—and that is one reason I was very happy to come
to this meeting—I would like to know if there is any way we can do this.

Of course, we are aware of the fact that we could do much more
if we had the personnel, if we had the psychiatrists, the psychologists,
who could help us, because teachers can detect certain things in children
early in their career in school. We have cases in our school where we
bring it to the attention of the psychologist and it is then brought to
the attention of the parents, who refuse to see this, refuse to give any
treatment, and that is as far as we may go.

11

 




Now, this is our problem. How can we bring this along further?
We have, I believe thoroughly, many a very good teacher. The common
sense of the teacher, the kindness of the teacher, these are things that
children try to emulate, most of them. If you have a very nice teacher,
you want to be like her and it is very important that we do have thls
' type of person in the job. But we still have the sadistic youngster desplte
all our pleas, all our training. He will still resort to very cruel things,
so this is a problem.

 

DR. SCUORZO: Thank you. Mrs. Daines.

MRS. DAINES: I think Miss Feuchter expressed my feelings and
I agree with what Sister Veronice has said of the responsibility of the
four agencies. It just isn’t just the classroom teacher, who is with the
youngsters only ﬁve hours a day. I, too, feel that this cannot be- put

in the curriculum, as such. I think that this is philosophy, this teaching
of humane reactions.

It has to be a part of our philosophy that we teach all the time,
that we don’t teach at any given period of time. I think it has to be
part of a philosophy.

DR. SCUORZO: Thank you.

I would like to read a law of the State of New Jersey, Chapter 226,
Revised Statute 18:14, 85.3.

 

 

 

“1. Each Board ofEducation may teach, by special courses or
by emphasis in appropriate places of the curriculum, in a manner
adapted to the ages and capabilities of the pupils in the several
grades and departments, the principles of humanity as the same

applies to kindness, and avoidance of cruelty, to animals and birds,
both wild and domesticated.”

It was news to me to discover that New Jersey had such a law on
the books. I think I speak for most of the teachers present—I am nOt
certam but I think so. I think we have always tried to bring into our

teaching these principles of humanity which you people in the human6
movement are bringing down to speciﬁcs.

Now, I think that what you are more concerned with, if I have read
theOattltude of the humane movement people correctly, is how can thlS
be implemented 1n the school as a speciﬁcation rather than just a general
attltude.

Dr. Mehorter, wha

t do You consider humane education to be in the
classroom? What do

you want as a humane movement, personally?
17

H

 




PROFESSOR MEHORTER: First of all, I think we have to look
directly to the teacher training institution. Miss Feuchter is very apropos,
I think. We know that children learn chieﬂy in the elementary school
through the process known as identiﬁcation. It means a tendency, the
unconscious tendency, of the child to emulate the personality charac-
teristics of someone to whom he is emotionally attached, usually a teacher
or parent.

We know that the teacher indeed becomes a second mother to the
child and by example the child would, I think, probably learn or prob-
ably pick up some of these “humane attitudes” rather than through
textbooks or rather than through other mechanical methods.

DR. SCUORZO: Yes. But let’s be speciﬁc. What is humane educa-
tion in the clasroom? ‘What is it that you feel should be done to help
educators provide humane education? We know the law is there—I mean
speciﬁcally speaking as of New Jersey. What would you do to imple-
ment it?

PROFESSOR MEHORTER: You can’t do a thing unless you
have a teacher who is philosophically oriented to a humane attitude.
Inherently it is a teacher screening job, and here I think personality
tests and the like would come in right handy.

DR. SCUORZO: Can we get back to Sister Veronice’s proposition
that it must be done at the teacher training level? Must we have insti-
tutions such as Newark State here, which train teachers, institute pro-
grams which would be guided toward this end?

PROFESSOR MEHORTER: I am thinking of a project that was
done to improve the mental health of children in some Iowa schools
that was called the Ojeman project. Professor Ojeman decided to
“humanize” the curriculum. It was a mental hygiene project.

What he tried to do, brieﬂy, was to take certain areas—by the way,
this was aimed at the elementary and junior high school grades in social
study, science and English classes—and instead of treating, for example,
the problem of crime as it has been traditionally treated in social studies
classes—such as the apprehension of the criminal, the type of criminal,
what the police court does to the criminal, this sort of thing—Ojeman
rather conducted a project in which he tried to get at the multiple
causes and motivations for criminal behavior in the ﬁrst place. In other
words, his hypothesis was that as a child is helped to understand why
people behave the way they do, self insight tends to be facilitated and

13

 




i.

«l.
1

Li
‘ l
«t
33'!
iii
a
g
:5.
V t
i»
{it
43
7‘2"
iii
F.
3

Y».

ii?

7313;???I'ﬂ“=§Z:-"FE?EE§E7.";x‘4"?.>xmwzmh£i

. in“: —;;«~- .~

1 ,- -‘.--‘
A3; ~‘d-‘ne .. 1 A

 

 

 

 

mental health tends to be improved. It was an important project and
I think it might have relevance here for a teacher properly trained. But,
again, I must emphasize that we must start in the teacher training institu-
tion to groom a teacher who would teach humane attitudes.

And it might be worth while to think along the line of trying to attack

why people are cruel in the ﬁrst place, not only cruel to animals, but
cruel to man.

I ﬁrmly believe that he who is cruel to an animal is unconsciously
being cruel to himself or some other human being. There is a tie-in
here of dynamic interrelationship. The child who may maltreat a kitten
is unconsciously maltreating his mother, or perhaps a baby brother or
sister. At any rate, it would seem to me that this causal approach,
trying to understand why in the ﬁrst place a child feels frustrated or
hostile, would be one point of several points of attack.

DR. SCUORZO: If I may interrupt a moment, I think then it should
be rather clear from your statement to the educators that humane
education is not merely a 52-week-a—year be kind to animals program.
It goes much farther than that. It goes into the very makeup, the very

character of the human being. It is then a training in character or mental
health, the term you used.

It is sometimes contended that children are basically cruel. How
does that thought affect our problem?

PROFESSOR MEHORTER: This is false. This suggests that there

is an inherent sadistic tendency in a child. The child is cruel only
insofar as h1s parent or his teacher is cruel.

DR. SCUORZO: Then we are back to examples.

PROFESSOR MEHORTER: The child is a symptom of a deeper
cause here, and invariably the cause is in the home. It is a frustrated
Chlld: It is a rejected child. I would only say that your statement that
we still have a sadistic youngster—well, we have children who may en-
gage 111 sadistic acts but certainly I would deplore any inference that man
is Innately cruel. Man learns to be cruel and sometimes it is funny the

way;l he learns to be cruel. It is from frustration of basic pSyChOlOgic
nee s.

We have many cases on record of people in trouble, mentally in,

where we can trace right straight back to childhood patterns of sibling

14

 

 

 




 

 

jealousy, and this sometimes shows itself in mental illness in the form
of cruel acts to animals and cruel acts—well, that old example of this
fellow who caught and strangled somebody in Brooklyn a few months
back. It was found that he strangled cats for fun. Well, this is typically
psychopathic. I don’t know if I make myself clear.

DR. SCUORZO: I think you do, Professor. I think we all realize
that we are confronted with all of God’s world and all of its creatures
and the question of just what is our attitude toward life, toward all
life, not merely toward the animal but toward our fellow man. I had
a thought that wandered through my mind. Most of the humane litera-
ture that I read speaks of cats, dogs and primates. I would like to know,
is there any less life in a one-celled animal than there is a multi—celled
animal? What is the feeling of the humane movement toward that? It
is life, regardless of complexity.

MR. MYERS: Your question is very penetrating and it goes to the
heart of the philosophy that we assert ourselves to be following. The
idea, the concept of reverence for life is, in our better moments at least,
what the humane societies are talking about. But in respect to this
problem of the education. of the next generation, we are more concerned
about the attitude and the motivation with which the child is brought
to this relationship with other life than we are about the actual end
event itself. It is not cruelty, it is not the pain of the animal or the
misuse of the animal, that in this meeting I am most concerned about.
It is the psychology, the motivation, the push behind the child or the
person who perpetrates the cruelty.

You said, very tellingly, that what we are talking about should not
be regarded as a 52-week-a—year be kind to animals program, and that
is so right.

I don’t believe that you can ‘teach kindness as a curriculum activity,
in the sense that you teach arithmetic or reading, but I don’t think that
the creation of humane attitudes in a child during his twelve years of
ordinary primary and secondary school life is a hopeless ideal.

If I may for a minute, let me approach it negatively. Here are two
publications that have been produced in the last two years by the Ameri-
can Institute of Biological Sciences, through their biological sciences
curriculum study group. This is a very impressive and worthwhile ex-
perimental study to improve the curriculum of biology courses in the
secondary schools of the country. I have followed this curriculum study
quite closely through the last three years.

15

 




 

< 4% r WWW
ié‘ﬁ'ﬁgmxgm‘

<ﬁiﬁ_.

—$’:S‘?;t

1* 3m“ LVJLJ’;¢IJ—:L.("L’1‘2§1‘:SZ??L£L=-.:_* Tammy; -

43.29:- : rig—‘54: «a»:

-: age-14:: )

t
l
it

‘iimiéﬁévi " 1'4

.9, .1.

 

 

 

 

 

 

These experimental curricula are replete with laboratory handbooks,
textbooks for the children, booklets for the teacher and so on. In none
of these is there even the slightest approach to the thought that in teach—
ing biology the teacher should be concerned with the student’s attitude
toward life and ethics. There still is only the concept that this is the
teaching of a specialty. It is as though the planners were back to the
idea of those who want you to teach from McGuffy’s Readers and teach
only the three R’s. This is only a more sophisticated version of the idea

that you should only be teaching the three R’s, and preferably out of
McGuﬂy’s Readers.

DR. SCUORZO: And actually if biology texts were planned to en-
courage an attitude of respect for life in addition to the scientiﬁc attitude
of dissection, let’s say, this would meet the requirement because the

child, while studying science, would also be getting respect for living
things.

MR. MYERS: Yes. I hope we won’t concentrate on talking just
about science or biological science in particular, but if you think of the
teaching of science, particularly in the elementary and the secondary
schools, as a study that is to promote an integrated understanding of
the world in which the child exists, then inescapably you come to the
thought that what must be taught must include a concept of the ethical
portion, the psychological portion of the world in which the child

exists. You don’t just take animals, chloroform them, cut them up, and
say, “Now, we have taught biology.”

DR. SCUORZOi I would lik
cently. It is probably old to most
but it was new to me. A Cana
boiled down comes to this, “E
as it exiSts today and go back

e to go back to something I read re—
of the humane members of the panel
dian report, about ﬁve pages, when
liminate science teaching in the schools
to nature study.”

Are there any feelings toward that, especially among the educators?

PROFESSOR MEHORTE
to say about that.

R: Admiral Rickover would have a lot

DR. SCUORZO: Actuall

y, this was proposed in not actually those
words. I am sure that so

me of the teachers who are familar with

16

 

 




 

 

 

 

should be a greater emphasis, as there was once, toward nature study
rather than the type of emphasis that we have today?

MISS FEUCHTER: Well, I can only speak of what we have in
our community, and I know we still have nature study per se. I might
also bring up an illustration that your comment brought to my mind.
In back of my own home is a little woodland. Our door bell rang and
there was a little girl who was very excited and she said, “Oh, Miss
Feuchter, there is a boy out in the back woods shooting birds with bow
and arrows and our teacher said that this is very cruel to do and I think
it should be stopped.” So, of course, we went out to the back and cor-
raled the neighbor’s boy and it was true, he was trying to shoot birds
with bow and arrow. But here is a little girl who is most concerned
because her teacher said this. I think this kind of teaching cannot begin '
too soon. I think this has to begin in the kindergarten and it should
never cease.

DR. SCUORZO: I think this is a very important point, and it has
been brought out before that the teacher holds a place in the child’s life
which few other people hold. I am sure you are all familiar with the
story of a child who goes home and won’t listen to his parents because
his teacher said to “do it this way.” It is a very common one. The
teacher does hold an important place and if the teacher were—back to
teacher training—if the teacher were properly conditioned—if you will,
properly educated—possibly there would be a more humane attitude
in the classroom.

But, let’s look to the humane societies themselves. A very nice lady
came one day to the school in which I teach, with a decidedly third-class
motion picture showing an animal shelter. The children were very in-
terested in the animals—they loved them, they loved seeing the ﬁlm.
The lady spoke to the entire assembly and I would imagine that about
two days after she left everything was gone and forgotten. The pro-
duction that she put on was that poor.

Now, she was trying hard. I am not in any way criticizing what she
was doing. What I am saying is that I am wondering if this is the way
for the humane movement people to get across their message—with a
third rate motion picture. The teacher has a lot of importance in the
child’s life. But possibly a professional ﬁrm would have been better
equipped to get across the same message. It didn’t really get across.

MISS FEUCHTER: This may be due to a lack of funds, too.

17

 




 

it
P

a 51:33:“ Siif‘

yz‘: £54.32" : .

3;” 1:5 ' .4 :53: .

, 11:“ ‘.4 : ’ . ..

 

a. ‘ W
4 _ — - AAWW
. ._ . 54%? . ,.

 

R. , a, "5' mkﬂw‘ ‘ﬁt-xé '.-: ”—9
A - A A A . A A A , - A. A» ~ ».
3.4.4" . g. 2Mmam'a4mmm5f;

' ‘ '7' :M‘ ' ‘21:: it‘m;

4:. ‘ . pr"... -- .. _ 44

 

 

DR. SCUORZO: Yes. I have no doubt the humane people have
the same problems that we have of lack of ﬁlms.

PROFESSOR MEH'ORTER: But, you are going about the manner
in which this probably was done. I would like to pursue this a little bit
when we talk about the “how to do it” later along the line. We must aim
not at just sticking in here and there a unit in be “kind to animals” but
trying to build a humane emphasis into the entir
would permeate all aspects—-
in nature study,

e curriculum so that it
not just over here in biology or over here
but over there in English and social studies as well.

I think we are defeated when we start saying, “
a unit or a series of units in being kind to animals.”
unto itself and it can’t be merely a separate unit co
divorced from the rest of the curriculum.

We will now develop
This is not an entity
mpartmentalized and

DR. SCUORZO: So we come b
teacher is to have in order to be a

children. Well, now, when we speak of this emulation of the teacher’s
example, we come to the questions of animals in the classroom. There is
a lot of pro and con on this subject among educators themselves. Should
animals be in the classroom? There is a philosophy that says that you
should have living things in the classroom so that respect for life can be
taught by example, by kindness and care in the classroom.

There is another
given in the classroo
room. I wondered i

ack to the overall feeling that the
ble to transmit this feeling to the

philosophy that says that proper care cannot be

m and therefore animals should not be in the class-
f there is any feeling on that.

MISS JACOBY: Well, thinking of my own school, where I teach in
the lower classes, most classes have a bird in the room. This does giVe

some education to our children on the care of animals, the love and
affection given to an animal an

the children who care for the bi
the children have the responsi
bird there and then. Of cour
when the schools are closed, t
care of. Now, this cannot be

rd, not the teacher. Even in kindergarten
bility of seeing that there is food for that
86, when we come to the holiday periods
he children must see that the bird is taken
a general lending out of the bird to all the

18

 

 




 

 

feels resentment toward the parent because he can’t take the bird home
and this is another teaching situation that we have to face.

I would like to mention, pursuant to part of what Professor Mehorter
said, that I think a great many of our books today lead toward the
teaching of humane care and humanitarianism. The nature stories stress
the care of animals and I am thinking now of one that is prevalent in
one of the readers that is known throughout New Jersey, of the seeing-
eye dogs and what they mean to people and how they must be cared for.
The children have a great respect for those dogs after reading that story.
I think stories like this do a great deal of good.

MR. MYERS: I have an awful tendency to talk oftener than I should,
but I am hoping to irritate some of the teachers in the group into making
me be quiet. We have been troubled for years by a project that has
spread like wildﬁre all through the elementary schools throughout the
country—nutrition demonstrations, using animals. It is promoted by
several commercial interests, primarily the dairies but others likewise.
The project commonly makes use of three to six, seven or eight mice
or rats, which are presented to the classroom by the sponsoring com—
mercial agency. Half of the group—this is pseudo—scientiﬁc—half of the
group is fed a diet which is obviously highly deﬁcient. The control group,
so—called (using scientiﬁc jargon but not scientiﬁc statistics), is fed a
normal diet for the species in question.

This experiment commonly is carried on in the classroom over a
period of ﬁve or six weeks and sometimes for as long as three months,
to the point at which the malnourishment and even the outright starva—
tion of the experimental group of animals becomes obvious to the most
casual child. Sometimes it has reached the point of being irreversible so
that the animals die of the malnutrition inﬂicted on them.

Now, here is a situation in which the teacher does ﬁnd opportunity in
her classroom and in her time to go outside the ordinary curriculum.
She is thinking of it as the teaching of a fact. She is teaching that car-
bohydrates and vitamins and minerals are necessary in the diet of the
organism. She is oblivious to the fact that she is teaching something
much more important. She is teaching that whole group of children
that what happens to that experimental group of animals is unimportant.
That is taught much more lastingly, I am sure, than is the teaching
about the diet.

DR. SCUORZO: Are there any feelings from the teachers in the
group about that?

’19

 

 




 

 

 

“’ “ ‘ ‘ ' < “ ‘ Wigw-
ai-s :«‘::.;.m&‘21:;;_g is.“ :agmmwmm

.».. H. E. ii .«,_;-.«__3_-,~¢_= ,5 ‘4': ;§;_.« 5‘ <Aé-4—sy M :r-nzsr-r -

 

MISS FEUCHTER: I agree with you. I have no arguments with
your premise at all. I feel that teachers are not research scientists and
I think a good teacher knows that she is not, or he is not, and will refrain
from such types of operation in the classroom. There is no need for it.

I think students will believe a teacher in whom they have conﬁdence
if the teacher says that carbohydrates produce this or that or the other

thing. They accept many other things. They don’t have to experiment
with animals in that way.

PROFESSOR MEHORTER: I think Mr. Myers is indicating not
only the educational value of such a thing, but also the attitudes that
are being formed by that experiment. And I would inquire to what
extent would this generalize later on, not merely in attitudes to the guinea
pig but later on would this become an attitude toward man. I couldn’t
helpbut think of the analogy of some of the Nazi experiments on Jews.
This was going to beneﬁt the great Aryan race. And so who would care

about the pains of the Jews? I would worry about that attitude, as Mr.
Myers had indicated here.

MISS FEUCHTER: So many of these men were so kind to their

dogs and their animals and yet how badly they treated their wives and
the Jews! They loved their animals, apparently.

PROFESSOR MEHORTER: We should ask at every point, where

we are using animals, what is the effect of this on behavior of the
children later on.

DR. SCUORZO: Is it a question, then, of necessity?

MR. MYERS: I think I caught in Miss
that I am sure is near the surface in the mi
educators. That is, are the humane societi
exclusion of the real problem? Are we jus

Feuchter’s comment a point
nds of many teachers, many
es obsessed with animals, to
t animal humanitarians?

DR. SCUORZO: I think we
opening statements and commen
deeper than just animals.
the entire opening of this co
by this time that it is not In

got the answer to that here in just the
’ ts. I think we realize that it is much
I think the idea of humanity has permeated
nference, so that the educators are well aware
erely the idea of kindness to animals.

PROFESSOR MEHORTER: This is controversial.
started out by saying something to the effect that we ar

20

Mr. Myers
e ultimately




concerned with the betterment of people, and I was surprised that it
didn’t initiate some reaction on the part of the panel.

DR. SCUORZO: Well, I hope this is correct. Is this not correct?

PROFESSOR MEHORTER: Oh, yes. I have met plenty of people
who feel that animals are the ultimate end and it just stops right there.
I don’t see how they can come to this conclusion, but what he said,
I thought, was very interesting.

DR. SCUORZO: 'May I ask a question of Mr. Myers. Furthering
what you said about the mice, do you feel, Mr. Myers, that—this is for
this afternoon but anyway I will ask you now—do you feel that this is
equally bad if done in, let’s say, a motion picture? Do you feel that the
philosophy of it is wrong whether it is done live in the classroom or done
by some other method whereby the child gains the experience?

MR. MYERS: Much would depend on the sensitivity of the picture.
No, I think I would answer no, because it would be possible to present
pictorially to the children the results of bad diet on an animal in a
manner that would evoke sympathy and empathy rather than, as does
the repetitive, redundant experiment, the attitude of callousness.

You know, that word “empathy” is important. I once heard Jim
Mehorter deliver an address in which his stress was on this quality of
empathy. Jim said that a child from whom the capacity for true empathy
is erased is a really unhealthy child, that this leads to true psychotic
qualities. And the quality of empathy is not a quality in a child or a
person which is divisible. You can’t turn it on and off and say, “Now,
you should feel the suffering of one person but don’t be bothered about
the suffering of another person or an animal.” We all fall short of total
empathy. We can all of us read about 10,000 Chinese dying in a ﬂood
and then turn to the sports page with a “ho hum.” Whereas if one person
died in a ﬂood in front of us, we would all be activated. What we need,
it seems to us of the Humane Society, is something in the schools that
encourages the capacity for empathy rather than something which tends,
as does that nutrition experiment, to cover it over, to deaden it.

DR. SCUORZO: The nutrition experiment, certainly, I think we all
considered inhumane. But do you consider American education in gen-
eral as being antihumane? Do you think that is the way it is organlzed?

MR. MYERS: No, ahumane.

21

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DR. SCUORZO: All right. So, we feel that we certainly can teach
values by example if no other way. Then why hasn’t it been done? Sister
Veronice brought out a question in a letter to me. She asked what lies
behind the educators’ apparent indifference to humane education. If you
feel that it is possible to do it, why hasn’t it been done?

DR. POPPENDIECK: I might speak to this point.
DR. SCUORZO: Dr. Poppendieck.

DR. POPPENDIECK: Going back for a moment with a comment
on Mr. Myers’ points, I thought for a moment when you were turning
to the sports page, I thought you were going to turn to a report of the
death of a football player or boxer. The doctors will also read Arrow-
smith and be concerned with the researcher’s problem about the control
group who are not receiving the beneﬁts of medication in which he had
already developed conﬁdence before he had completed his research.

I think our problem is in the fact that there are so many different
interests that strike individuals at varying times. We will put our
emphasis on one interest at one time and another interest at another -
There are competing values in our society, to the extent that we cannot
always serve all that we would like to be serving. I think the problem
of putting an emphasis on humane values within the school is a pr0b1€m
of putting it in a suitable context among all the other things which have
to have attention. I am glad that you bring out speciﬁc examples like the
ones brought out. I would have, too, a slight reservation with reference
tovthis dietary experiment, but I am not sure it has as lasting an impact
on the youngster as was implied by the example. If it did, much m0f€
of what we teach with effort in schools would last a lot longer than it does.

There are the callousing aspects that come in also with it, but pUt
focus on the other one. Whether we are concerned about effective
English grammar or democratic ideals or humane principles or any other
values in school, we have to see that these are in competition with a
host of others. I am glad that we started off with the idea of attitudes.
I would like to shift it one notch back behind the attitude of teacher to
the attitude of our citizen rank. It is not only important that those of us
who are concerned about humane values see that this gets additional
emphasis within the schools that prepare teachers. We need to see that

it comes additionally to the attention of our entire citizenry so that they,
in turn, w111 want it in the public schools and i

. . . n the teacher preparation
institutlons.

22




Attached to the fundamental point on attitude, which I think is where
we are going to be directing most of our attention: I would like to turn
a question back to Jim Mehorter with reference to some of our basic
psychological information on this. You were commenting on the appar-
ent need of some people to be kind and about .the apparent need of some
people not to be either cruel or kind. Do we need more research in the
area?

PROFESSOR MEHORTER: Of course. Actually, we have a lot of
theories but very few facts, something like psychoanalysis. We would
have to be careful. I go along with what you said. There are various
types of people who have compulsions to be kind—well, we meet them
in humane society work, and some of them are very maladjusted people.
I am being frank, but I hope not brutally frank. We meet people like
this in religion. We meet people who are on the other hand neither kind
nor cruel—your typical psychopathic personality. They have no com-
passion and no empathy toward anything and certainly we have to study
much more of the human personality to understand this. I think that
you are very correct when you are suggesting here that it is not only
the cruel person that is our target.

DR. POPPENDIECK: I think that we have to be studying the per-
son who needs to be kind as well as the person who needs to be cruel
and the person who doesn’t need either in order to be more effective
with the impact of the whole thing. And I think the more we under-
stand how some people can be led to want to be kind, the more effec-
tively we are going to be able to implement our entire education program.

PROFESSOR MEHORTER: A second point: there is an ambival-
ence in the whole thing. There is the person who might be passionately
kind in one area, e.g., animal protection work, and savagely cruel in
another area, e.g., regarding all children as sadistic little monsters. We
have got a point here that is maybe inappropriate for the meeting, but at
any rate the personality characteristics of the people who would instill or
build in the curriculum this humane emphasis. It is a very good point.

DR. POPPENDIECK: This is the O. Henry detective story. They
found the murderer by ﬁnding the one who was particularly kind to
the animal.

DR. SCUORZO: May we bring this to something which is for com-
ment by both teachers and humane representatives. There is a readmg
series which, at the seventh grade level, includes a number of stories on

23

 




 

_‘—.—:mm . '- '

.1.\-<;__- ‘x. as: «war:

_-:__¢.;~::rmz=ﬁ~— :a

 

 

-;,W4ze: u. :.—s;t...;z.s.t-mmx:.

:3‘Izm “wait. '-;=‘:. 22121.23“. 7,

4. 'ﬁzzg:t :1:

 

f;e.2‘.:::‘:- A .

»,r2.—- tag-- 1

:42

«it-r r» :4:

I —k: A;~5 A. :ﬁxas-L:

 

   

“kill or be killed, the law of the jungle,” and states it just that way. The
teacher’s guide book does it just the same way and this is what you are
to teach the children. Now, we know that this is true. But is this the
thing to teach to our children? Should it be included or could a better
selection have been made for inclusion in a reading text which is standard
and spread throughout the country?

MISS J ACOBY: I think I know the series to which you are alluding,
and I think here comes, as Miss Feuchter said earlier, the true value of
a teacher—how is she going to approach this whole thing? She has a
special job to do now and this is to point up that under certain circum-
stances it might be right for animals to act that way but then she has
the bigger point of the lesson, to teach that humans don’t behave that
way because civilized people have advanced, supposedly, beyond that
stage and therefore again the teacher has the job of pointing this up and
making the child understand. I think this is a situation in which we must
approach it in a negative sense, that this is not what you do and man
should not do this.

DR. SCUORZO: Is it desirable to teach in a negative sense?
MISS JACOBY: Not always, but sometimes one has to.

PROFESSOR MEHORTER: This idea of kill or be killed is inter-
esting. I don’t know much about animal behavior. What animal kills
for the sake of killing? I was always persuaded that most animals kill
either for protection or if they are hungry. Actually, you could make
a very good negative case out of showing man to be twice as mean an
animal as any other, in the more insidious evils that we inﬂict on our
fellow man. This Paret, this boxer who recently died—I have made an
excellent example for my students out of this whole case. There are
people that attend these boxing bouts because they want blood and they
want to see it. The difference between a Roman gladiator and a boxer
in Madison Square Garden is inﬁnitesimal. Freud touched upon this
beautifully, I think, in his work “The Psychopathology of Every Day
Life.” It might be good to think about attacking some of these problems
from a negative point of view. I certainly did with this Paret case. This
slaughter was televised to something like 80,000,000 people and I think
that this could be directly related to the type of thing that we are talking
about today—the problem of inculcating attitudes of love.

MISS FEUCHTER: Well, don’t you think that this negative ap-
proach depends upon the mental ability of the class? Now, there are

2.4

   
 
 
 
     
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
   




some children of very low mental ability that won’t respond to that
negative approach at all. I think this is life.

Paret could make $35,000 so he took a chance.

PROFESSOR MEHORTER: This is an interesting question. It
leads me just to think of something else that you might want to broach
later on, the increasing emphasis about teaching gifted children. We
know that‘we are being able to raise their 1.0. I guess some people will
differ on that, but we know that with gifted children we have a par-
ticularly interesting kind of person for humane education. The higher
the IQ, the more sensitive a child is to suffering and pain.

I was reading a story by Rita Hollingsworth about children with
above 180 1.0., an interesting study, and some of these children, per-
fectly adjusted, would break down and weep when reading Milton’s
Paradise Lost. That is how sensitive, just like a delicate instrument,
these children are. The National Society for the Study of Education has
a yearbook out entitled “The Gifted Child” and in this yearbook is'a
prose piece written by a little girl. I just want to get it in; I think it is
relevant. I will start from the beginning. A group of research people
for the gifted child decided to show a ﬁlm, a seven-minute ﬁlm, entitled
“The Animal in the Forest,” to boys and girls all over the country.

I think there were 2,000 in the group they showed the ﬁlm to. The
ﬁlm was presented without dialogue, without narration. There was
merely a musical score to accompany the appearance of birds and ani-
mals and it had to do with a man that went out into the forest one day
and shot a deer and went out in the forest the next day—it is very difﬁ-
cult to describe—and then he looked at the deer family and lowered his
gun and took his grouse feather out of his cap and threw it on the
ground and bowed his head and walked back home from the forest.

The children, more than 2,000 of them, were invited to write com-
positions about this story and it was fascinating, some of the composi-
tions that came in—beautiful poems. But this one prose piece was by
a girl, Doris Forrest of Elizabeth, New Jersey, 1.0. 192 or something
like that, and it showed her to be incredibly sensitive to this whole busi-
ness. I wish I had brought it with me, but I would refer you again to
the National Society for the Study of Education Yearbook. It was
either ’54, ’55 or thereabouts, entitled, “The Gifted Child.”

DR. SCUORZO: Assuming that the atypical child from the stand-
point of high IQ. is more sensitive, we have to consider that in publlc

25

 




 

 

 

 

-. x rat-I mmwxme a» mum. “54a x—z narmm ‘44. aw: : :VIWN ‘< >;—M~W W

arm-ﬁe,“

 

Jim—1 Tx‘i?x‘ﬂﬂ= ,5 'x c?a;r. 15:13: _., ..

- ¢ ' ,r.;v~_-,:r-;"2:'-

 

 

 

education (and I imagine, Sister, too, in parochial education) not every-
body has 180 I.O.’s. We run the gamut from 50 up.

Now, we are talking about sensitivity. We are talking about devel-
oping it in a child and you brought up something before, Professor,
about the person who goes to the boxing match to see such blood letting
as went on with Paret. Or I will bring up another one, a cock ﬁght that
was stopped in western New Jersey a few days ago by the state police.
Those are, I think, the type of things that you are bringing up and you
said that it has relevance to the mental health of the individual.

PROFESSOR MEHORTER: It is symptomatic.

DR. SCUORZO: All right. We are trying to educate the new gen—
eration in a more humane feeling. Must we not get at the generation
of the teacher? We talk about empathy. You want the child to feel
himself with the animal and we talk about emulation. I think that all
of these go together and we are going to have to bring into it the mental
health of the teacher. How are you going to get at this teacher com-

ponent from a standpoint of whether she is adjusted for teaching young
children in this area?

PROFESSOR MEHORTER: This gets into the screening process,
but I would not put all of the weight on tests—personality tests and
progressive tests, the Rorschach and what not. We must rely a great

deal on knowing the quality of the student teacher’s work, of observa—
tion, of interview, of seeming motivation.

DR. POPPENDIECK: I have a footnote about the question of
society always being humane to its teachers. I am concerned now about
the professional climate in which they operate—the load, the standard
expected of them, the remuneration, and the entire pattern. When we
look at the mental health of the teacher, we are sometimes looking at
a defeatist attitude on the part of some because of the status and lack
of acceptance of the teacher in the mind of the community. It is just
a footnote on the side, but I think it is a factor.

DR. SCUORZO: It is an important factor. Please don’t think that
I am commercializing here as a teacher representative, and I am sure
that Miss Feuchter and Miss J acoby wouldn’t want to have it that way
either, but a teacher with forty in a classroom is not doing the same job,
not even the same teacher is doing the same job, as a teacher with twenty
in the classroom. The question of attitude can come in when you have

26




the time to devote to attitudes. If you do not have that freedom in a
classroom, you will not be thinking much about attitudes. You have
a lot of police work to do which takes away from the time that you
would like to be devoting toward development of character, under-
standing and attitude.

DR. POPPENDIECK: You will develop attitudes but you will
develop different attitudes.

DR. SCUORZO: I am afraid that a lot of that is true. There will
be different attitudes.

PROFESSOR MEHORTER: Maybe one thing should be clariﬁed.
I know it is probably in our minds already, but I think we can safely
say, at least hypothesize, that the ability of the individual to love beyond
himself with compassion for all sentient life is an earmark of good
mental health, and as such we in education would be justiﬁed in pro-
moting this attitude insofar as we are interested in promoting mental
health in the child. I don’t know if this has been stated, but it would
seem to me to be important.

DR. SCUORZO: You are bringing back to me a statement that I
read sometime ago by Dr. Schweitzer. I think it was essentially the thing
that you are getting to, the idea that toward all life this attitude should
be developed and certainly if the teacher is sensitive, this can be some-
what transmitted to the child.

MR. MYERS: With an emphasis on the point that it is not merely
because it is moral and ethical, although that would be reason enough,
but because of the point that Jim makes, that it is for the beneﬁt of the
child itself.

PROFESSOR MEHORTER: It is psychologically crucial.

DR. SCUORZO: You bring up “ethical” and “moral.” I believe
in parochial education a large emphasis is laid on the moral and on the
ethical. Do you feel that this is an advantage that parochial education
has that may not be possible in public education?

SISTER VERONICE: I doubt it. I believe that in all teachers, no
matter what their creed, if they are of religious persuasion and if they
are ethically conscious of the demands of their profession, their own
convictions will help them to form this idea of humane education. We

27

 




 

' ‘ - $23.12:- ’3; tar; rrm Wiﬁrjmrmmkmw _ .

_ A: ..~4 Ana—m“ dz». ...= . .z.

 

 

 

 

 

 

may have an advantage in church schools in the sense that if we happen
to mention the name of God or God’s creatures or God’s world, we will

' not suddenly have an uproar in the state legislature about it. We can

be much more normal and approachable in our teaching to children that
all creatures belong to God and they were made by God and therefore
because man is the highest of God’s creatures on earth, he has a respon-
sibility. We have scriptural proof of that in Genesis. We ﬁnd that God
made man and said, “I will put him in command of the creatures of the
earth, those that are in the sea and those that ﬂy and those that walk.”
Therefore, man’s responsibility to creatures is very great. He may use
them for his pleasure, his enjoyment, his use, for his nutrition, but he
also has the responsibility not to abuse them.

DR. SCUORZO: It boils down into use, not abuse, and I think this
is what Mr. Myers was bringing out before. If it is a true use, I don’t
think Mr. Myers would object to, let’s say, a college course in nutrition.
Quite possibly at that level you might not object. I don’t know. I am
not going to try to read your mind.

SISTER VERONICE: May I make a comment? When Mr. Myers
was talking about that, I happened to think, “Aren’t we becoming much
more experiment-happy on the lower levels?”

DR. SCUORZO: Too much so, Sister.

SISTER VERONICE: And at a lower level, such as in the elemen—
tary school, aren’t we rather jeopardizing what we ought to leave to the
higher level? If the fourth or ﬁfth grade thinks that it already knows
all about control and experimental groups, what on earth is the college
teacher going to do? By the time the child gets up there and goes to

college, there isn’t going to be any element of interest or surprise. He
will say he “learned all that in the ﬁfth grade.”

DR. SCUORZO: From a personal standpoint, I would like to step
out of the role of moderator. I am a social studies teacher. I have found
that children are just as interested in the physical sciences, which can
be taught without any cruelty in any way, as they are in biological
sciences. I ﬁnd that they like electricity. They like sound. There is no

reason why these can’t be the areas for basic science teaching. We cer-
tainly don’t teach in all areas of science.

Since we select some, why can we not select those areas which are
more appropriate to the level of the child?

28




SISTER VERONICE: My main objection I didn’t make quite clear.
I do not believe that the children are mature enough at that level. We
should wait until the children are more mature. We are told that we
must present ideas and not knowledge.

MISS JACOBY: Well, Sister Veronice and a lot of the rest of you,
a lot of this has been imposed on our schools. We are forced way beyond
the age level and the comprehension level of the child. Someone has an
idea and suddenly it must be brought into the classroom. Somebody says
it must. It isn’t the teachers. It is imposed on us and the ﬁrst thing you
know you have to teach it. You have no choice.

When one school starts it, one area starts it, it is like keeping up
with the Joneses. The next school has to do it or “Why aren’t we as
progressive as that?” The ﬁrst thing you know, things are on a high
school level. We are” teaching high school work in elementary classes
and the ﬁrst thing you know they know what we learned in high school,
almost, and yet they don’t have the basic attitudes and understandings
we want them to grow up with. They don’t get enough real, thorough
training in the beginning, no foundation to put things on, so they are
ﬂexible as they grow up, too ﬂexible. They are ready to shift off to
another direction too quickly by saying “that isn’t what I was taught.”
It is like getting down to the basic truths. It is very, very difﬁcult to
make a child understand. We are bypassing too much because we are
pushing too much down on the younger children.

DR. SCUORZO: Miss J acoby brings us back to something that
Dr. Poppendieck mentioned in passing—that is, the pressure groups
that have put things into the school curriculum. We have Arbor Day,
and the celebration of particular events, we have physical training, we
have driver training. These things have come in by law.

Now, this is the ﬁrst group I have come across that is interested in
instilling attitudes into children. The question that I throw out is,
shouldn’t this be done by law? We have a law on the books in New
Jersey. Should there be a law in all states?

MR. MYERS: Dr. Scuorzo, I feel strongly that it can’t be done by
law. I am quite sure it can’t be done by law. The laws of the type that
you read earlier are on the books now of about 35 states. They are
honored 100 per cent in the breach and in no other way. The very fact
that this meeting occurs today, I think, indicates our thinking about
how this must be done. Dr. Poppendieck spoke of that. We must go
back to the public, and 1 would like to emphasize that I agree that the

29

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

attitude of the teacher, the character and the personality of the teacher,
is crucial but nobody thinks that the fault lies with the classroom
teachers. The fault, if we agree on there being a fault, lies in my opinion
back—of course, the chicken and the egg get in here, that old problem—
but it goes back to those who determine many things before the teacher
moves into her classroom and takes charge.

My own mind continually, as I listen to others here, reaches for
“where is the door through which we can stick the wedge?” Is it in the
oﬂice of Dr. Poppendieck? Is it in the United States Ofﬁce of Educa-
tion? Is it at the top strata of the NEA? Is it in the curriculum determi-
nation group of each state? Is it in the Boards of Education which hire
and ﬁre high school principals and supervisors and superintendents?
Where is the crack through which we can enter? Sure, the teacher is
crucial but what we are really asking of the educational world through
this kind of conference is, ﬁrst, do you agree with us that this subject
is important and, second, how do we do this so that it is not only
acceptable to you who are professionals in this ﬁeld but so that it
is practical?

DR. SCUORZO: Mr. Myers, as soon as you said that you did not
think that law was the answer you answered part of your question and
that was the part about the State Boards of Education. If law is not
your answer, then any pronouncement from above, from Dr. Poppen-
dieck at a Federal level or from State Boards of Education, still will not
get these attitudes across to children.

MR. MYERS: Aren’t there other ways of permeating the thing,
though? I suspect that Dr. Poppendieck in symposiums and seminars
argues a hundred times a year with educators. Dr. Miller, with whom I
ﬁrst made contact in the United States Ofﬁce of Education, certainly
does—in fact, you could hardly catch up with him, he was sitting in so
many meetings of educators. If we can reach the top people who are
respected, who are inﬂuential, who are persuasive, can we not hope that
in the next decade we can make a beginning toward a new attitude in the
schools? And without a law?

DR. SCUORZO: I would make a guess, if I may, and I would like
Miss Feuchter to comment On what I say. I would make a guess that
there would be departments of the National Education Association which
would be more logical places to go than to State Departments of Educa-
tion. State Departments of Education tend to be rather administrative
in nature. I think Miss J acoby, president-elect of the Department of

30

 




Classroom Teachers, would be a logical person to assist in helping
permeate education. 'I think the Departments ’of Elementary School
Principals, and of Secondary School Principals, through. the various
bulletins and journals playing up the idea that this is necessary, can help.
I have a feeling that this is a better way to. attack it than through the
administrative agencies, through the local agencies. Miss Feuchter,
would you have any idea on that?

MISS FEUCHTER: Well, I mentioned before that a good teacher,
a kind teacher, is what we need. An ethical teacher, a moral teacher.
No association can get us this standard of teacher unless we achieve—
and you brought it up before and I didn’t mention it before—a willing,-
ness in the public to pay for what they want, which is good education.

Now, apparently this is what We are talking about. We want to
educate our youngsters to be kind, good people in every sense of the
word. Thus, we have to look to our taxpayers. We have to persuade
these people to provide this type of teacher to provide this type of
education.

It will cost money. There is an old saying, “money spent for educa-
tion will save money in the jails” and so forth, and this is so true. I don’t
think we would have half the problems that We have today if we had
the educational agencies to take care of all our young people. There
are some people whocannot learn the so-called academics, but they
can learn attitudes by being with people who are kind and decent. I
think we know what kind of training to give them, but who will pay
for it? I mentioned before that we need more psychologists and psychia-
trists to work with us. A teacher with forty youngsters in front of her
can recognize very quickly, if she is a good teacher, the children who
have these odd little habits and so forth that should be changed quickly.

PROFESSOR MEHORTER: Some of the most ahumane people in
the world are psychologists and psychiatrists.

MISS FEUCHTER: But, this is the point. How is that single teacher
going to work with the one or two or three problem children in the class?
I have had classes myself, in high school, where I was told that a boy
Was possibly violent and I would notice he would turn purple with rage.
I had 38 in that class. I would try to ﬁnd some way to get the rest of
the youngsters to walk up to the youngster and try to talk to him. I am
not a psychologist. I have had psychology courses in part of my training,
but I would have to talk to that youngster until I saw the color subsiding
and I felt that he was back to what we call normal again, you see.

31

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

One day he came into the room with another boy. I was called to
the door and before I knew it, he had that boy hanging out the window,
strangling him. Well, it took every power of strength that I had to pull
him away from the other fellow. Now, we have to have classrooms and
extra teachers for people like that. These are emotionally disturbed
children.

MR. MYERS: We have to teach wrestling to teachers, too.
(Laughter.)

PROFESSOR MEHORTER: Could I just pick up one thing that
Mr. Myers mentioned? Getting to the top echelon of the NEA—well,
just getting to the NEA, just getting to other national organizations. I
would like to ask you specially, Dr. Poppendieck, do you think that this
humane education idea is sufﬁciently novel to be presented in the form
of a paper or some sort of a discussion, perhaps, to a national profes-
sional group such as the NEA, perhaps to a convention if it were done
properly, if it were done scholarly, professionally?

DR. POPPENDIECK: I have talked with some key people in
three or four of the organizations of the NEA. They expressed what
I took as a very sincere interest in this meeting but had competing
demands which either they could not move aside or which they felt at
the moment took precedence over this. It could very well be that some
of the other concerns with which we are competing will get primary
attention. Let me answer in part by going back to Fred Myers’ question
about where do we get the foot in the door. I think the approach has
to be a multiple approach. It is not getting a foot in the door. It is a
matter of having a resort which is available for application wherever
it is appropriate.

I have just been involved in a conference in which the commissioner
brought together some 150 people concerned with the ideals of American
democracy and internal dimensions in education. Now, when you look
at the ideals of our way of life, consideration for people, consideration for
life—humane principles would become part of that;

We have had within the last decade a very considerable emphasis
on science and mathematics, to the extent that nationwide we are now
getting an insistence that we need to be paying more attention to the
humane and sociologic aspects. There will be within the foreseeable
future much more emphasis on arts, literature, social studies, humane
values. I see that many of the concerns of this particular conference

32

A 4-“«
F—

 

N“
g.”

 




 

 

will have application here. They won’t take the place of attention to
fundamentals of democracy, but it will be part of the teaching of
democracy. '

However, if this group is not vocal, it is very possible that the people
who are most concerned about democracy in terms of people will forget
that this has application in terms of humane consideration of all forms
of life. It comes in on this basis.

Now,‘ let me make comment on another point regarding law. It won’t
go by law. Law follows attitudes in the minds of the citizenry in a
country such as ours. A very frequent activity in my ofﬁce is to try
to interpret something of education in the United States to visiting edu-
cators from other countries. There is a diﬂiculty in interpreting our
decentralized educational program, the fact that we do not control it
from Washington. The thing that usually gets across and on which
we can build the rest of the explanation is the force of the professional
associations in this country—not only in education but in all areas.

My most frequent example is state licensed physicians but the Amer—
ican Medical Association accredits medical colleges; state licensed
teachers, but the National Association for the Accreditation of Teachers
accredits the colleges that prepare them. We have higher certiﬁcation
standards for teachers in states because of the force of the professional
associations which has been developing this over the years. I very
deﬁnitely think that the avenue of contact for the thing we are concerned
about in this conference will best be through the professional associa-
tions. Not necessarily as a formal presentation at a meeting. This may
happen in some cases, but most can be done by spreading the idea to
appropriate points in discussion in a great many meetings. This is why
I say that I think the approach has to be a multiple approach, making
use of all avenues of contact wherever they apply, but making sure
that we don’t try to focus it just on additional legislation in states that
don’t yet have it.

DR. SCUORZO: In reference to what you say, Doctor, I want
to call on Miss Jacoby for a comment regarding the appropriateness of
her department, the Department of Classroom Teachers, as a vehicle for
getting across some of the basic ideas and philosophy of humane educa-
tion. Do you feel that in your department and in its publications, there
would be any possibility of incorporating some of these ideas?

MISS JACOBY: I think there is a deﬁnite need for it. I think it
could be done and, as Dr. Poppendieck was speaking here, I was thinkmg

33

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

of other meetings I have attended at the NEA building in Washington,
in which they started directing thoughts toward something that they felt
needed to be reemphasized. In those meetings people were called in
from the various departments of NBA, not just classroom teachers but
the administrators, and in an open meeting such as this, the problem
was presented as it was presented here this morning. I could see such
a meeting on humane education taking place in NBA very easily. I
remember a typical meeting about two years ago. We were discussing
testing and that was an outgrowth of the emphasis being placed on
testing at that time. Some people were forgetting the effects of tests on
children and I felt it had a great deal of value because so many people
were brought in and they were not just the NEA people. They were
people from other areas in education or in helping with children or
directly working with children.

We had people from the Child Education Association in Wash—
ington. We had them from the United States Oﬂice of Education. We
had people down from Yale and Harvard and what not, discussing what
they had found in research.

I feel just such a meeting as this, promoted on the NEA level,
possibly at the NEA building, would have outlets to these various groups
such as you suggested before. It can’t be directed through any one
group, no.

As far as the teachers picking it up themselves, they could but it
wouldn’t be as effective as if we brought some of these other people in
at the beginning stage.

DR. SCUORZO: I think we are now a bit into what we are going
to discuss this afternoon. The teachers here have a bit of background
on what really the humane movement is, and now we are beginning to
talk about, “How do we permeate education?” This will be our central
topic this afternoon.

I would like to call this morning’s session to a close, if we may.

AFTERNOON SESSION

DR. SCUORZO: I think this morning gave us an excellent back—
ground into what humane education truly is, and I think this afternoon
our prime concern should be what methods should be used to help
acquaint educators with humane education, what method should be used
to get the people who know most about this into contact with educators.

34

 

 

 




 

 

We started off on that toward the end of the morning session with
Dr. Poppendieck and Miss Jacoby’s comments, but I think we have to
explore this much more fully if this is to be successful. Speciﬁcally,
what can we do? Enumerate things that we can work toward to get
across the idea of humane education in schools and education.

MRS. DAINES: Well, I think that our department of NBA would
be willing to go along with something like this. I talked to Dr. Thomp-
son to get permission to represent the department at this meeting and
she said, “by all means. If you can go, you go, because this is an area
where we are anxious to help. We are most anxious to participate.”

Now, we have publications for which we are always anxious to ﬁnd
material that is going to be- beneﬁcial to the teachers. I brought a
couple along to show you, the type of things that the Department puts
out. Certainly I will write this up and report on this at our next Board
meeting near the end of June.

I am sure, from my work with the NEA, that every department
could ﬁt this in. We are all interested in the same thing, I think, and
I am sure that they would be glad to cooperate with publications or
speakers—whatever means we decide might be most beneﬁcial.

DR. SCUORZO: I see. Thank you. That is excellent, I am sure,
from the standpoint of the people from humane organizations, because
I think this is really what they would like to get at.

I think they would like to have an entrée with the professional
organizations. I think they would like to have a contact to inform.

Now, they are truly the experts in the area. They are the people who
have done the most research, the most work in the area, but we can
provide them with the vehicles whereby they can get this informatlon
across.

Mrs. Daines has told us that her department, that is kindergarten
primarily-—

MRS. DAINES: Elementary, kindergarten, nursery. We have
increased our area.

DR. SCUORZO: Would be quite willing to work in this area.
This brings up something that is backtracking a little bit, but I think
is of importance. I commented at lunch that I felt that the teachers who
were most intimately concerned and already teaching in this area were
the teachers of the very young.

35

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

I think people who choose this area of education already are very
receptive to anything that might have to do with humane education, by
virtue of the very fact that they are there. So, particularly in the lower
grade level, it might be of great value to contact the professional
organizations.

MISS J ACOBY: I think I would like to comment at this time on
the adolescent child, the young adolescent child, because this is the child
that, oh, from nine years up, is most curious and after seeing some, oh,
it might be a movie or a TV performance or such, where there has been
some vivisection of animals, this child just through curiosity, not through
the teaching in the classrom or anything else, just is curious enough ’to
go out and do the same thing. I think that to curb or direct this kind
of curiosity, there has to be a great deal of teaching. If we are going to
teach humanitarianism and talk about human beings living together, I
think we have to consider this age as well as the young child.

DR. SCUORZO: This brings out something I was discussing with
Mrs. Stevens at lunch time, the fact that this program must be carried
throughout the growth of the child.

Now, the question also arose in discussion, is an elementary school
child old enough to have an animal, to care for an animal? Possibly this
isn’t quite in point here, since the afternoon session is to be devoted
toward what we can develop to get across humane ideas, but we can
keep this in mind, the fact“ that children do have pets and, old enough

or not, if they are going to have them, surely they should be given some
training in their care.

Let’s get, if we may, directly to the point of the afternoon session.
How about this question: children’s books, primary children’s books,
are often directed toward family and animal life. Do you feel that this

would be a possible vehicle for getting across humane ideas and humane
attitudes?

MISS JONES: Yes, I do, and there is a great wealth of humane
education material available. One of the problems is merely collecting
it. We have been doing something in that connection. It may interest
the group to know that we approached the National Catholic Education
Association, which is the Catholic counterpart to the NBA, and dis-
cussed with them the development of a teacher’s guide to an integrated
course in humane education within the framework of the existing
curriculum outline, which is called, I believe, “Guiding Growth Toward

36

 




 

Christian Living.” All through “Guiding Growth” the humane inﬂuence
is exerted but it is not developed enough.

It will take up conservation, which we in the humane ﬁeld think
necessarily covers humane education, and NCEA has given us encour-
agement. If we bring together this outline and ﬁll the urgent need for
the lists of teaching materials, we are not sufﬁciently equipping the
teachers. They might let us publish it as a cooperative effort and this
would be sort of a trial program. We have been amazed by the avail-
ability of teaching material when we began to search it out.

DR. SCUORZO: This is a problem in any teaching establishment.
A teacher does not physically have time to search out such materials.
Now, being that this is so, how would you propose to distribute materials
which might be develOped as a result of this conference or otherwise?
How would you propose to get them into teachers’ hands and used, not
just into teachers’ hands.

MISS JONES: I think a large share of this problem is for the humane
movement to solve, but if I may go back a bit to what we were dis-
cussing this morning, I think the failure of the humane movement at
this point has been in not reaching all of society and convincing it that
its concern in humane education is, as we all understand here, not just
for the animal but for the human because in the longest lasting effect it
concerns the human.

We have failed in this. We realize that the old idea of ten minutes of
humane education a week and so on, as called for in the laws of humane
education, just will not do. So, I think our ﬁrst need before we get
into the actual teaching of humane education and materials is to SO
reach all society and especially the parents so that society will demand
humane education.

It shouldn’t be thought of as just the work of the humane society or
just the work of the educator because both groups are overburdened.
I think we need to reach many different ﬁelds that have a natural, ready
interest in it, such as psychologists and psychiatrists, many of whom have
expressed themselves—people concerned about juvenile delinquency
and so on, parent—teacher groups, child neighborhood organizations and
so on. Get them all to recognize the need and support us in this and call
it for the sake of the child. .

Then, to come back to the question we left, I think the gathering of
the materials and providing them for the teachers is largely the respon-
sibility of the humane movement, but not exclusively.

37

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DR. SCUORZO: Do you think there would be any value to the
humane movement and educators working cooperatively in trying to
educate the public?

MISS JONES: Yes, I think that is true.

DR. SCUORZO: Now, do you think this could be done via the
mass communication media, for instance the radio and television stations
are required by law to give time to the public for the public good——
let’s say a one—minute spot television commercial? Do you think this
would be of any value in helping what you mentioned and what Dr.
Poppendieck mentioned this morning—public education? You have to
get the public educated to need this, to want it.

MISS JONES: Yes. I think that is our ﬁrst project.

DR. SCUORZO: What approaches could be taken if this isn’t solely
for education in the classroom? If this education has far greater
ramiﬁcations, what could we do? This is what we want to know.

DR. POPPENDIECK: Do you have any Madison Avenue people
on your Board?

DR. SCUORZO: No. This is a problem, that type of approach.
I don’t think educators really are set for that but if you are going to the
public, maybe you need some of that, too.

DR. POPPENDIECK: What I am thinking about is that Madison
Avenue uses an insistent, continuing pattern. It uses all media. At
every turn you are confronted with something. Subconsciously this
registers. In relation to what I said before, I think you have to use
multiple approaches. I don’t think it is a case of picking out one. My
answers to both questions are, however, yes. They ought to be ex—
ploited. With reference to publications, I would observe that most
professional journals, and there are hundreds of professional educational
publications in the country—journalists are very happy to publish mate-
rials that have to do with speciﬁc teaching resources, speciﬁc experiences,
speciﬁc values. By and large, it would be a bit more acceptable if it
was a classroom teacher 1n the third grade, or in the sophomore year in
high school, who was ready to write this up. Now, this is in a sens€

working through the resources of these people who are already inter-
ested and concerned.

38

 




 

DR. SCUORZO: This is very true. The editortof a teacher magazine
is interested in what you have done in the classroom that works. This
is what she wants because this is what other teachers want. They want
something they know will work, or at least something that has worked
for somebody else. It is as Dr. Poppendieck said, there are many
avenues. I think the humane movement is going to have to do some
soul-searching itself to determine just how it wants to go about getting
its information out to the public. So far, I think, we people from
education have gained more here today than we knew about in our lives.

DR. POPPENDEICK: In terms of concepts, you probably address
yourself to probably slightly different professional journals. Some
would probably not be concerned as are the members of the humane
society itself, who are much concerned about the spread of the move-
ment but have not been working with classroom situations. One must
ﬁnd persons who would be competent to produce an exposition of the
ideas of the humane society. Possibly there should be a couple of
conferences talking about it and then the scheduling of a time when
something like this might be published.

Now, there are dozens and dozens of journals that don’t want it
and won’t accept it, but there are others that will.

DR. SCUORZO: Maybe I can be speciﬁc for the association repre-
sentatives here. Can you provide the humane movement with avenues
whereby they can get information on this type of thing to the schools?

DR. POPPENDIECK: Well, one thing we can provide very easily.
The National Ofﬁce or the State Ofﬁce of every educational association
has a simple publication. It includes the identiﬁcation of their bulletms

as well as the association. If you already have it, that is an avenue of
contact.

DR. SCUORZO: What I was referring to, Dr. Poppendieck, was a
more speciﬁc avenue—through persons. Personalities are often a better
entry to publications than merely writing to the list. If we have people
here who would be willing to provide their good oﬂices for that use, 1t
might be more valuable to the humane movement that way. For example,
Mrs. Daines or Miss J acoby who would have very direct connectlons
With such agencies.

DR. POPPENDIECK: I don’t think the difﬁculty is a connection
With the agency as much as it is in ﬁnding the classroom teacher at the

39

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

crossroads who has done something with this and is ready to write it
up and submit it. Here is where your contact is very apt to come through
your state associations and their contact at the local level, and being
aware that a particular seventh grade teacher is interested in applying
these concepts, has made use of these materials rather than others, and
is ready to write it up.

MISS JACOBY: Has the Humane Society done anything in regard
to communicating with newspapers about this, so that they can give
publications something, maybe once a month or even just during Be
Kind to Animals Week, to bring to the public just what the Humane
Society is? This, I think, is important.

Two, if our newspapers are ﬁrst aroused and made curious about
this, I could see that they might then go into the schools in their com-
munity to ﬁnd out what is being done there and make a newspaper
article, with pictures, of what has happened in the classroom. This is
just another way of publicizing the whole thing and bringing it to the
public. Is it not, or would it not, be worthwhile? Is that too broad in
scope?

MR. MYERS: I must admit humbly and sorrowfully that the humane
movement has not done a very good job of creating an attractive image
in the public mind nor of informing the public about this problem. In
fact, we are culpable in every degree. I tend to think that at this stage
of an attempt to do something better, any concentration or even any
great degree of attention to the newspaper press or even the magazine
press would not be very productive. Here I speak as a disillusioned
ex-newspaperman and magazine man of many years experience. Going
to the modern successors of William Randolph Hearst or Colonel
McCormick or Captain Patterson with a thing of this subtlety and
without any blood and excitement in it, I am afraid won’t get you very
far at this point. I believe that the place we are going to have to make
our start toward a new approach to this problem is in the schools them—
selves rather than the broad general public. I spent. a long day several
months ago with a member of the Board of Directors of the HSUS,
Martin Winemiller, who is principal of an elementary school in Ohio
which I take it would be a fairly typical, if there be such a thing,
elementary school of the United States. He and I spent most of a day
kicking around the question of whether, in this, the chicken or the egg
comes ﬁrst. You can’t educate the children or condition the children
in this respect without working on their parents, but the children are
the parents of the next generation and the parents of the present genera-

40

 




 

tion are probably past redemption, yet somewhere you have to begin.
Because the schools are controlled by people of professional and intel-
lectual qualities above those of the average parent, it seemed to Martin
Winemiller and me that it would be easier and more effective to begin
at this in the place where we had professional and intellectual people
to whom to talk and with whom to collaborate.

The newspapers, I think, won’t do it. The general approach to the
public won’t do it.

DR. SCUORZO: We agree then that it is needed, but until it sells
papers it isn’t going to happen. I think that is the whole point.

MR. MYERS: Yes.

DR. SCUORZO: I think that is reasonable. Associations have had
the same difﬁculty in their own private association business of getting
newspaper releases printed when they seemed to be only for our beneﬁt
rather than to the newspapers’ beneﬁt, so this is a common diﬂiculty.
What we are interested in is how to do it.

Apparently we are together because the humane movement feels
that the schools are the places to try to get this information across.
That is the reason we are here. Now, if this is so, what can we do?

MISS FEUCHTER: I would like to say, Mr. Myers, that I don’t
feel the Humane Society has to apologize for its lack of doing anything.
I think that you should be proud that you exist. I mean, the mere fact
that you people are interested is a gain.

I don’t think you should have to apologize any more than we as
educators must apologize for probably a lack in what we are doing.
We are being educated right now, you see, to do something about this for
the general good.

I think if there were money enough to produce good pictures, for
television and to send them around to the schools, this would be a won-
derful thing~a colored picture, extremely attractive, maybe you could
get Clippings from some of those motion pictures like “Lad, a Dog”
01’ “Lassie.” And then, of course, the newest books out—“Born to be
Ff66,” and so forth. There you can see the kindness to the anlmal
and how the animal responded to this type of thing. If they are used 1n
their Proper way in the schools, if you had speakers who could go about
With the picture and——

41

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

DR. SCUORZO: Properly trained, may I add.

MISS FEUCHTER: Properly trained. This would be a great boon
to us. It creates interest that lasts for two or three weeks, with children
going over this again and again. I noticed in Connecticut—maybe they
have them around here but not in this vicinity—the outdoor museums
where they have people who will take animals into the classroom and
allow the child to handle an animal properly. The narrator explains
the animal to the child, how to handle the animal, what its function
is and so forth, and the children love it. At least, that is what I read in
the New York Times. I think you should elaborate on that type of
thing.

Then, I have one more suggestion. If we ever have another meeting
like this, that we bring in the P-TA.

DR. SCUORZO: This brings up another question, since you men—
tioned it. I think it should be the last question of the day, but you
brought it up now. Should a meeting such as this continue? Should
it be repeated? Should it be expanded, as you say, bringing in the P-TA
people who are also intimately concerned with children?

MISS JONES: I think so.

MISS FEUCHTER: Some of these people are anxious for a cause.
DR. SCUORZO: I think it is an excellent suggestion.

MISS JONES: I think we should bring in every ﬁeld that is already
interested or should be interested.

DR. SCUORZO: In other words, P-TA, churches.

MISS JACOBY: Spread this over a year of teaching while it is
still fresh in your mind.

MISS JONES: Let them see that it is all there.

. DR. SCUORZO: Do you think it is of value in teacher workshops
1n thls area? It will have to be on a purely voluntary basis. You 1086
the value as soon as the thing becomes mandatory.

MISS FEUCHTER: May I speak on that. In every community
the teacher has a workshop up to her ears and you lose a certain spon-
taneity when you say “a workshop” on this particular thing. Teachers

42

 




 

just like a little free time. We run a professional improvement confer-
ence every fall. We have already planned for our next one this October,
but there is no reason why the NEA can’t incorporate in one of its
conferences a little bit more in this ﬁeld. I think teachers are pretty well
trained in what they should do and what they ought to do. Let’s give
them the time to do it and let them prepare for it.

MR. MYERS: May I ask a technical question? Would there be
any usefulness in plugging for inclusion in the curricula offered by
various teacher-training schools and other schools, in the summer in—
service credit courses, of something along this line?

DR. SCUORZO: I believe there already are such things—for in-
stance, the School of Conservation in New Jersey, up in Stokes State
Forest. I am quite sure that they do have things of this sort where
nature and animal life, plant life, all of this is studied, not solely from
a biological standpoint but also from a conservation standpoint.

MISS FEUCHTER: Well, in this community of Union we send a
sixth grade class out into the wilds. They go to camp with their
teachers. They learn a great deal and, of course, they have a great
deal of enjoyment out of being outdoors. You have to have dedicated
teachers to live with the children seven days a week, 24 hours a day,
but we have them.

DR. SCUORZO: Above and beyond the call.

DR. POPPENDIECK: May I speak on that point, 3150? I think
there are potentials in this area but I think you ought to be also sensitive
to the magnitude, to the attack and to the amount of comPetition that
you are going to run into.

Nationwide, there are some 1,200 colleges and training universities,
most with teacher preparation. Most of our teachers are prepared by a
major group, which is a group of about 400 or 450 nationwide, and
about approximately one-third of our college graduating crop have been

Prepared for teaching. The new group of teachers each year is about
130,000. ’

If you want to get one piece of literature to every institution that
Prepares teachers, this means 1,200 pieces to start with. It may get on
the President’s desk or may not get to the person you want it to reach.
We don’t know how many teachers are enrolled in summer programs

43

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in any given summer. This is not an item of information which we
have precisely available. We don’t know. It is several hundred thousand.

A certain number of these people are pursuing formal programs and
if a unit. in humane education or an actual course that has bearing on it is
included within the formal program, then it would get results. If it were
elective, it couldn’t run unless enough people selected it in a given
institution. This would need a certain amount of building up.

We discussed earlier the fact that we were concerned with some
long range human values and we were concerned with affecting attitudes.
The problem is to get this into the thinking of teachers at all levels. This
includes college teachers as well as kindergarten teachers.

Like ideals of democracy and better use of English this subject can
inﬁltrate into other programs. But this calls for almost a continual
program of refreshment to remind people that this is a value, so it
doesn’t get lost.

You face the fact that the teachers are saying that four years isn’t
enough to prepare for teaching to start with. The pattern is moving
toward ﬁve years. There isn’t enough time in ﬁve years to get in every-
thing that is wanted, so this needs to come into our thinking. We must
identify the broadest base of value so that it comes in connection with
science and the teaching of science, democracy and humane values. It
needs to come in as a relationship to these. Occasionally there will be

speciﬁc, unique courses or units that would have bearing on humanitarian
values and so forth.

MR. MYERS: As I have told several of you, I have a young school
teacher in my own immediate family. I have had several conversations
with him, over the last few years, about the iniquity of trying to force
onto the classroom teacher any more subject matter—I appreciate their
difﬁculty genuinely. I long ago concluded that the problem that we of
the humane societies bring to the others of you today can’t be solved
by presenting a new unit of study. I believe, as I think Dr. Poppendieck
not only implied but stated, that this must be done by regarding it as an
integral part of the whole school.

I believe, for example, that just as in one version of the new biology
curriculum there is a bias toward viewing biology from the standpoint
of the ecologists, there might similarly be in the preparation of a com-
plete curriculum for biology a bias that would regard it as allied with the
subject that we are discussing—not merely with ecology but with
psychology. The curriculum could be slanted, if you will pardon that

44

 




 

bad word, so that it was planned to imbue the child with an attitude
toward the living creatures around him, not as a resource, but as fellow
creatures. It seems to me that the kind of ﬁlm that‘Professor Mehorter
spoke of could be used by the English teacher. If you write an essay
about the ﬁlm that Professor Mehorter described, you pursue your
English at the same time that you do something else. My concept of
how this humane education is to be done in the schools is not that one of
our own ill-trained people is going to arrive once every semester and
deliver a trite, corny, thirty-minute speech about “be kind to animals”
or even that one of the better trained teachers is going to do that.

MISS JONES: In that connection, may I say that such ﬁlms are
readily available and we should all make use of them. Coronet has a
number that are perfectly suited to humane education. One I am think-
ing of is “How the Animals Live In Winter.” This is for the very small
children. If the children are exposed to enough of that—many of them
would never see these animals at close range—they would develop an
appreciation and respect for them.

DR. SCUORZO: May I add, too, that we are thinking on exactly
the same subject. I was thinking speciﬁcally of the ﬁlms that were
once produced by the Moody Bible Institute. They were rather slanted
toward the idea of humaneness. The ﬁlms didn’t sell because the
minister, in his closing statement, gave his little humane sermon. The
public schools would not use them. They have been modiﬁed now so
that the idea of humanity—~—let’s not say humanity—humaneness, per-
meates the entire ﬁlm. An excellent example is the “Monarch Butterﬂy.”
This ﬁlm is designed to show scientiﬁcally how this butterﬂy develops,
‘but all the way through the commentary is so designed and so worded
that the child sees the majesty, sees the growth, sees the hand of
Divine power in the development of this beautiful object. This is the
type thing I want, too. It is the idea of giving to a child, in his daily
education, in the materials that hit him daily, an appreciation of the
world around him.

SISTER VERONICE: Now you are getting to- another point. . We
are getting away from attitudes and we are getting into apprecrauons,
which are' fundamental and which also should be brought into thls
discussion, I feel.

I want to interject a point that came up in our discussion atlunc’h
when we were talking about movies, and we spoke about Walt Disney S
excellent work in showing the natural habitat of animals. 111 part1cu1ar,

45

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

we were talking about the “Painted Desert,” which is an excellent ﬁlm.
Mr. Mehorter said if we could get a man like Walt. Disney interested in
the idea of humane education—he has the fame, the resources, the name
to do a great deal of work in education and perhaps that is one of the
things that the Humane Society might be thinking about in this point of
getting the materials and people interested. If they could latch on to
some big, important person in the United States, he could do more for
them than hundreds of little people.

PROFESSOR MEHORTER: A few years ago I wrote to a number
of celebrities, people who I thought might lend us their support, or at
least their names, in our educational campaign, and I did write to Walt
Disney but he never replied. I don’t know why. Maybe it did not reach
him. There is in my mind some question as to his humanitarian
orientation.

DR. SCUORZO: It might be commercial orientation.

PROFESSOR MEHORTER: I would question this. I don’t know,

but it would certainly be a wonderful thing if we could have help from
a person like him.

SISTER VERONICE: This is where the personal approach would
have much more effect than the written.

PROFESSOR MEHORTER: I am impressed with the tremendous
inﬂuence, as yet immeasurable, of TV on the developing personality of
the child. When you take an accounting of what the child looks at, of
course, you ﬁnd frequently an animal story. It seems to me that
some of the people who produce these things show a real compassion
for animals, and it seems to me that they would love to have their
youthful audience develop the same attitude. Certainly we shouldfl’t
be too naive to realize that outside of professional education and OIJtSide
of the professional humane worker there are very valuable people to
guide us and to lend us their name and support.

DR. SCUORZO: There is something else that you may consider.
Commerc1al organizations, for their own reasons, are willing to support
that wh1ch they feel is for the public good. An example is Esso. E550

has sponsored numerous ﬁlms which are used by schools——Qne 1n
partlcular, “The Seasons.”

46

 




 

It has no commercial value for Esso. It is merely a beautiful ﬁlm,
showing you nature and its changes through spring, summer, fall and
winter, and that is all it is.

Now, if a corporation such as Esso is willing to sponsor something
like that solely for the fact that it creates good will in the community,
you might look to something such as Standard Oil or Sunoco or some
other large corporation for assistance in producing things which the
schools might be able to use.

MR. MYERS: I think that a transcript of a conference such as this
may have a very material usefulness in helping us persuade such an
organization as Esso that this is an important subject.

DR. SCUORZO: This is entirely possible. I do think that this
Moody Institute of Science that I mentioned before offers a concept very
closely allied with your work. Everything they do, in a sense, is looked
at from the standpoint of “this is God’s world.”

Are there any suggestions by which we might promulgate the
message?

DR. POPPENDIECK’: Somewhat related to that one, have you
made an attempt to solicit funds for humane education from founda-
tions?

MR. MYERS: Yes, sir. We have not been eminently successful so
far. I don’t blame the foundations for not having yet seen the usefulness
of this.

The American humane movement has until quite recently not prop-
erly conceived and therefore not properly presented this subject. It may
be that with further development of cOll’aboration along the line of
today’s conference, organizations such as the Carnegie Foundatron or
others that come to mind will be willing to do this. So far they haVC
thought of it as merely 52 weeks of “be kind to animals.”

DR. POPPENDIECK: I am thinking of some of the smaller founda—
tions, ones we have never heard of as well as the half dozen b1g ones
Whom everyone thinks of.

MISS JACOBY: In talking about the economic end, this is one 13$
the ﬁrSt questions that I know NEA will ask. They will say th1s won

47

 

 




 

 

 

be wonderful” and then “where will we get the money to go ahead with
something like this?”

NEA doesn’t have all of that money to put forth. It seems to me that
so many of these ﬁlms that have come out of Hollywood are wonderful
and we would love to have them in the classroom but the ordinary
Board of Education really doesn’t have the money, either, to pay for
that kind of thing. If anything like it were available through any founda-
tion, so that we could bring this down to the classroom level, that would
help.

MR. MYERS: Miss Jacoby, among my many incarnations, besides
being a newspaperman I have also been a professional fund—raiser. If
your department of NBA or Mrs. Daines’ department of NBA would
say to us that you would like to have such and such, or the teachers of
your level would like to have such and such, then I could go out and ﬁnd
the money with which to obtain such and such.

If, however, I go to the Carnegie Foundation or the Latham Founda-
tion or some others and I say, “Fred Myers has a bright idea—he says
that if he has such and such a ﬁlm he can bamboozle teachers into using

it,” then it is pure speculation. This is where we can get right down to
brass tacks.

For example, if I or anyone else around this table could meet with
the two or three who make decisions in your NEA department, and if as
a matter of policy they would say that your department of the NEA
believes that such and such a kind of material would be useful and
usable and used, then we could take over from there and try to deliver
it to you. I believe we could.

MISS J ACOBY: That is encouraging.

DR. SCUORZO: Now, may I ask a $64,000 question? Mr. Myers
apparently" feels that the funds can be provided if our people are willing

to listen. Now, the next question is, would you feel that you could
get your people willing to listen?

MISS JACOBY: I can only try. I will be making a report of this
and, as I understand the setup here, there will be a transcript of this
meeting.

DR. SCUORZO: Yes.

MISS JACOBY: And when it is sent up to me I will try to produce.

48

 




 

MR. MYERS: Mrs. Stevens, for example, through the Animal Wel-
fare Institute, has already produced some materials which I consider to
be professionally excellent. If there were—I won’t say decision—but if
there were any indication from your group that you would like to have
this or that kind of material or you join us in thinkingthat it would be
useful and usable, there are those in the humane movement that I believe
could deliver good materials if we had your help in deciding what is
needed.

MISS JACOBY: I have already requested that of Mrs. Stevens.

MRS. STEVENS: Yes, and I think when you have talked with your
respective groups and have made some decisions on the things that you
most need, our groups all over the country will be happy to have
that guidance and then perhaps we could, working with you, produce
numerous materials. That is one thing.

To go on a little further, I wanted to ask what you think now are
the things that are most needed for teaching. In other words, I know
that one time there were a series of readers that were graded—I mean,
of ﬁrst, second, fourth and sixth—all on the subject of humane education
and they covered different aspects. I think the sixth grade one was
conservation and maybe the third the care of a dog so that it was tying
in reading with various aspects of either the attitude and/ or appreciation,
both of which are very important. Now, I don’t think there are any
readers that are sufﬁciently up to date. For example now, I don’t know
if that is something that you think is a particularly good approach or not.

MRS. DAINES: Well, I think the readers that we use in our second
grade have stories that deal with this but it isn’t labeled as such. As I
see it, the greatest need is for interpretation to our groups, and to every-
one, really, of the function and goals of the humane society. I didn’t
until today. I didn’t understand what your aims were. I frankly
thought_

DR. SCUORZO: Be kind to animals. Period.

MRS. DAINES: Be kind to animals. Nothing more. And this is
the ﬁrst thing that I feel that I must explain to our Board—how you
Want to extend this. That it isn’t just that we are kind to dogS and
cats. I think this is the ﬁrst step that has to be taken, this interpretatron

to the People of really what the problem is and what you want to do
about it.

49

 

 




 

 

MR. MYERS: I would like to summarize that point. Our point is
not be kind to animals, but be kind.

DR. SCUORZO: Well, on this I think we all agree.

MRS. DAINES: But before we came today, I don’t think that we
thought that. We thought only of “be kind to animals” and I think
this needed to be interpreted.

DR. POPPENDIECK: May I ask whether this is an actual modiﬁca-
tion of Viewpoint and policy?

MR. MYERS: No. It has always been the basic purpose of humane
societies to affect attitudes.

DR. POPPENDIECK: If it has always been, why have we in the
common public gotten the impression that it was only “be kind to
animals?” Has there not been a particular emphasis on the “be kind
to animals” part?

MR. MYERS: Yes, unfortunately to the exclusion, to the burying
of the underlying point. I think I could explain and elucidate, but I
think it would take quite a while. What we call the organized humane
movement originated nearly a century ago in the United States. As with
a good many other things, there has been evolution and development.

Now, Jim Mehorter’s science—don’t thank me, J im—has developed
our understanding of what is involved. The original SPCAs and humane
societies started with the concept that their duty was to prosecute every—
body. That was their function. They were to enforce a law. We long
ago abandoned that thought, but it takes time for this to reach the public
consciousness. Our goal is not merely—well, “merely” is the wrong
word—not education only in the sense of teaching, admonishing and
adjuring, but education in the sense of conditioning, using the techniques
of science. There is a lag in the public understanding of this. There iS
even in our own movement still a lag among its constituents just as I
am sure there is still a lag in the church of the understanding of what
Christ meant and what the church is really teaching.

DR. POPPENDIECK: Well, we are all entitled to our own enthusi-
asms and even these change from time to time. But I think it is highly
1mportant that th1s be made more clear. This is on the adult level and

50

 




 

this is what must reach the active people in P-TA and the school
superintendents, who have a large measure of inﬂuence over what is
going on actually within the classroom.

I think one kind of visibility on this may be achieved through resource
lists of usable material.

Has the society produced for classroom teachers at various grade
levels a kind of white list of proved resource literature that illustrates or
implements certain of the principles? I think it might also be useful if
you made out a black list—“don’t use these books.” But if you were to
identify stories and books available within the library and within the
resources that illustrate certain aspects, certain principles, this would
be most useful. These are resources already available. The idea is
suggested of having written work in school on some of these concepts.
But, if this is illustrated in a little reference brief, it would be quite
helpful to the school. This might be published.

DR. SCUORZO: I think Miss Jones has done some work in that.

MISS JONES: Yes, we have started. Of course, many of ours are
from the Catholic point of View, but Coronet ﬁlms are already being
used in the public schools and I think we can make greater use of those
serving the humane education purpose.

MRS. DAINES: I think there is a lot being done that we don’t label
as teaching.

MR. MYERS: Much the better if you don’t label it.

MRS. DAINES: As I think back on things that we teach, I believe
there already is considerable of this, but I really feel that the ﬁrst move
from here is interpretation of this “be kind” rather than merely “be k1nd
to animals.”

MISS JONES: Would it help in the next meeting if we could try to
arrive at some sort of policy statement by all the ﬁelds that mlgh'f be
represented in that meeting on the urgent need for humane education?
Would this not dramatize it for the general public, get it across that thlS
is not Just, as you have said, be kind to animals but be kind?

DR. SCUORZO: It might be a good point for this reason, .I think.
If you say it, you are just another Humane Society member saylng, be

51

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

kind.” But, if we say it and the P-TA say it and if possibly a foundation
representative in a discussion says it, maybe it carries a different kind of
weight. Possibly you have been sloughed off by the public, as it were,
because of the poor public image that has been created in the past.
And if other people (as I know I would be willing to do and I am sure
the other teachers would be) would be willing to state an appreciation
of your principles, and try to help others of our breed, so to speak,
understand, I think it could be of value for the general public.

MISS JONES: I can think of one means of conference that would
enable us to reach many educators and parents and so on. Ladies Home
Journal does a feature on public affairs. Margaret Kennedy edits it and
they often cover the sort of conference that we are having and planning
for the future. This I think would reach many people.

DR. POPPENDIECK: I would like to speak to one other point.
I was much interested in Jim Mehorter’s comments about the psycho-
logical basis of this and I was interested in reference since lunch to the
use of televised material. There is a certain amount of research going
in both these areas and funds are available for research. It may be
that the kind of basic research that is needed is not as much down the
center line of Humane Society concern as you might like but there are
underlying aspects of psychology, of learning and inﬂuence of people,
that might very well come in on this. If Jim Mehorter or colleagues of
his in institutions are interested in pursuing research in this area I
would encourage them to submit proposals for such research. The
Government is one prospective area for help, the foundations would be
another. This would be applicable both to the cooperative research in
Government and through the new media.

DR. SCUORZO: Media research.
DR. POPPENDIECK: And the title seven aspect.
DR. SCUORZO: This is Dr. Spaulding’s baby.

DR. ROPPENDIECK: Yes. So that to the extent that there are
psychological values to be researched, that there are educational pro—

cedures to be researched, these would have legitimate standing as
proposals.

NOW, the advisory committees that judge these are concerned with
research, not With content, and the advisory committee won’t care

52

 




 

whether this came from somebody concerned with better use of the
French language or the geography of the Polynesian islands or anything
else. They would be concerned with the research aspect. But it is
very possible, as I judge from the comments that Jim Mehorter was
making before, that he may be interested in doing some basic research
or may have colleagues in his own ﬁeld that may be interested.

DR. SCUORZO: May I bring out something for the sake of every-
one here. I think that you and I are clear on it, but I am not too sure
that the humane society members of the panel would be. The type of
thing that Dr. Poppendieck is speaking of—the Federal government, as
he mentioned, gives grants, primarily at college organization levels, to
people such as Professor Mehorter.

DR. POPPENDIECK: College or State Department, not organiza-
tions.

DR. SCUORZO: I am sorry. The Humane Society would not be-
come eligible.

DR. POPPENDIECK: Nor the NEA.

DR. SCUORZO: But if the question were of the effect of television
on humane attitudes of the public, this is the type of research Wthh
would be perfectly legitimate for governmental support.

MR. MYERS: And if it were requested by Jim Mehorter.

DR. SCUORZO: As a college professor, he could be the chief and
there could be a team. This would be supported by the Federal Clov-
ernment if it met the criteria that Dr. Spaulding and his committee
were studying.

DR. POPPENDIECK: Now, “humane” would not have to go in the
t1tle. It might be one of four elements that he wanted to use and maybe
several other things Mehorter wanted to measure at the same t1me.

DR. SCUORZO: It could be mental attitudes or anythillg- It is
certainly an idea that you might be looking into from the ﬁnancmg» from
thC fund raising, standpoint.

d like to get into one

I th' . . I oul
Ink we are gomg along pretty well W ation

other aspect of materials. We have been talking about the prepar

53

 




 

 

 

of materials for the teacher. I was wondering—I know how I feel on
it but I was wondering how other members of the panel feel—about the
preparation of still more materials for class use. How about display
type materials, materials for classroom display? I personally feel these
are of value. How does the rest of the group feel? Do you think that
humane societies would be on the right track if they developed, let’s say,
posters, not posters that merely said “be kind to animals” but posters
that illustrated values? Something the teacher could use?

MISS J ACOBY: Even a picture without words and have the child——
DR. SCUORZO: Supply the words, yes.

MR. MYERS: May I ask you teachers something just mechanical?
We develop something in the future. How do we get it to teachers?
What are the mechanics? We can’t mail it to 600,000 individual teach-
ers. We don’t even have their names. What is the avenue?

DR. SCUORZO: First of all, there are lists available. The New
Jersey State Department of Education has a list of every principal in the
State. You can buy the list for ﬁfty cents, so once you got the list of
principals you then have the entree into the school.

Usually, the avenue is to principals, ﬁrst, and then to teachers, but
there are lists for sale of all varieties. You can buy them from maga-
zines to which teachers subscribe.

MR. MYERS: I guess what I am asking about is a point of pr0t0001
and effectiveness. Suppose you had something, let’s say a pOStEI, you
wanted to get out. Would you send it to principals and ask them to
distribute it to their teachers or would you ask them for a list of teachers?

DR. SCUORZO: I can give you speciﬁc experience on that if you
would like it. I have been on the Advisory Council of the educational
program 0f Ralston Purina. They mailed out a card, purely an
announcement and request card, to almost every principal in the United
States, as many lists as they could get their hands on. I believe 70,000
1n the initial mailing. The response to this determined what materials
they .WOU1d send out. They felt that if the principal had given some
backing to their program, quite possibly it would have an effect on".-
teachers in the school. If the teachers felt that the principal was intef- l
ested in this, it might inure to their beneﬁt. So solely from a PmCtical
standpoint they wished to mail it to the principals.

54

 




 

MR. MYERS: But then after getting that indicative opinion or
reaction, did they then go directly to the teachers themselves?

DR. SCUORZO: No. The principal submitted the question for
his school building. This served the purpose of ﬁnance also, funds being
limited. If all packets could go to one place, it was less expensive.

MR. MYERS: Okay. That has been a puzzler all by itself. Actu-
ally, if you go through the principal, you are also fairly sure of not
stepping on toes.

One more technical question. How would you go about submitting
materials to teacher-training colleges—to whom in the hierarchy?

DR. SCUORZO: Do we have anybody representing—Mr. Samen—
feld, the question is, if you have materials that you want to submit to a
teacher training institution, what person in the hierarchy would you
contact? '

DR. SAMENFELD: The dean of the college would be the appro-
priate person.

DR. SCUORZO: Miss Feuchter, you showed that you didn’t agree
with me on something, and I would like you to comment.

MISS FEUCHTER: No, only that principals will sometimes send out
teacher lists. Of course, these change so rapidly and there are many
other reasons why they don’t send them out. '

Teacher lists are so very difﬁcult to obtain. In our own state, of
course, we run a very big convention in the fall in Atlantic City and all
manner of exhibits are there. Last year we had 32,000 teachers who
went to that exhibit. And they collect material. They go down there
for the speciﬁc purpose of coming back with bags, shopping bagS,
loaded with material. And they use it.

MISS JONES: I would like to second that. I think that that would
be a 800d beginning for the humane societies, to be represented in the
eXhibit as a way of meeting the teachers and enlisting their interest on a
personal basis and discussing with them their needs. We did It for the
ﬁrst time last year at the NCEA annual meeting and we will do 1t later.
If the HSUS could handle some or the local exhibits, it would be a
marvelous means of contact. We keep hearing requests for more from

55

 

 




 

 

 

 

teachers. We started out on a very small basis with a little kit we made
available to Catholic school teachers and we distributed thousands and
thousands.

DR. POPPENDIECK: Contact with superintendents is not quite as
good as contacting principals, but school superintendents can be identi-
ﬁed easily through the annual federal documents which name all the
schools. This is available and I can send it to you if you want it.

MR. MYERS: I have tried Superintendents but they seem to be
one step too far removed from the children.

DR. POPPENDIECK: Well, you may or may not, but chances are
what you send them will get sent somewhere and there is half a chance
that it may be sent to someone who is interested.

Might I mention a couple of other sources of this type for using
material. In most of‘the major education journals there will be an ad
about getting free and inexpensive material and it will usually have a
number system for identifying inexpensive materials and ads all the
way down through the journal, and people will respond to this by key.
If you check this device, you might ﬁnd that this is a very easy way to
get your material to the attention of people who are responsive enough

to go after it. Nobody is going to send for it unless he has some interest
in it at that point.

Regarding the materials themselves, I would like to make this point.
Let’s not discount the value of student participation. If you want to use
some kind of poster material, use a poster which in turn will stimulate
the youngster to make a poster of his own. Develop teaching material
which will in turn lead on to some class activity. If there is a preViOUS
article or a story, let it be something which has on it the addenda of

stimulating the youngster to do something further with it or an imita—
tion of it.

I think we will put across any attitude much more effectively if we
ourselves engage in some kind of activity that makes use of it and we
W111 instill it in our youngsters better if we engage them in it. I don’t
know that there is much value in sending out enough copies of a piece
so that there is enough for each child to take home and forget it. I
think it is a lot better to have one in a classroom, which they have to
pass around. If they pass it around, they may read it. If they take it
home, they will seldom read it—and I think the same thing is true 0f
P-TA members. If you send everybody one, it probably won’t be mad-

56

 

 




 

DR. SCUORZO: Are there any other contributions on methods of
dissemination? Well, if not, this was the topic for the afternoon, devel-
opment of materials and how to get them out.

I wonder if I would be amiss in asking Mr. Myers to give us a
general summary of the day here.

MR. MYERS: It would take a better rapporteur than I am to sum-
marize extemporaneously this day, at least adequately, but just so that
we may clarify the consensus at which we may have arrived, I will run
through a few notes.

Mr. Sichel opened the day by reporting a ﬁnding that, I think, we
have developed all during the day—that through a questionnaire survey
the New Jersey Branch of the HSUS had developed a revelation that
there is a deﬁciency, a paucity of humane education materials and of
consciousness of the need for such things in the schools.

Mr. Sichel made another point that I think we also all have agreed
upon during the day: that it is obligatory upon the humane societies to
present this, the need for humane education, in a rational manner that
makes practical sense to the world of professional educators.

I think he implied, as I think we all agree, that this has not yet been
done.

I believe we have all reached an understanding that the goal to which
we aspire, the objective that we seek, is an encouragement of and a
development of an aspect of education that affects the character, per-
sonality, the happiness and the total development of children.

.I believe we reached agreement (I believe we were in agreement
W1thout having to reach it) that this is a proper function of the entire
educational system—the schools, the family, the whole society—but
Partlcularly, in this context, of the schools.

Various of our members have spoken of and, I think, we all have also
agreed on, the primary need in developing this form of education or this
aSPCCt .Of education, of teachers who have the personality, the character,
the tralning that makes this a part of the teachers’ example to children,
not merely something that is taught by rote. Miss Feuchter made the
p01nt Pf€Cisely when she said that attitudes can’t be taught; that children
know the attitudes that they should have; they know the answers they

ShOUId give; but the real basic attitudes must be acquired by a kind 0f
PSYChological osmosis.

57

 




 

 

The point was made repeatedly that the schools do not at the present
time, any more than do the humane societies, have the manpower, the
personnel, the equipment, the money or the time with which to do
everything that is granted to be desirable. Several speakers made the
point, however, and I believe here also we are all in agreement, that the
development that we seek should not be regarded and properly is not
regarded as an “extra” in the school curriculum but as the very basic
stuff of the education that we seek to give and, injecting my own phrase-
ology here, that some of the speciﬁc subject matters with which the
curriculum is burdened are themselves the extras.

Mrs. Daines spoke of this as being a philosophy of education, not
merely a matter of curriculum, and I believe we all agree with that.

I think—without trying to repeat all that was said—that we are all
in agreement that, in Dr. Poppendieck’s phrase, there must be a multiple
approach, there must be a many-pronged approach.

There is no one form of working material, there is no one adjuration
of the teachers, there is no one technique, that can be used. We must
work at the level of the teacher—training colleges. We must work with
the P—TA. We must work with superintendents and principals. We
must provide the materials. We must have individual personal conver-

sations with leading educators as well as conditioning material through
the popular press.

There was, of course, a great deal of useful discussion this after—
noon, in our closing hour, of techniques. I won’t try to summarize
those. Each one of them is an independent thing by itself.

I believe that, to summarize in a sentence a proposition that this
entire group would agree on, this is an important, fundamental, philo-
sophical concept of education in the schools and there are practical
means by which the goal that we seek can be achieved without over—
burdening or even further burdening the hard pressed teachers.

I think that is the essence of our consensus.

DR. SCUORZO: Thank you very much, Mr. Myers.

Miss Jacoby, would you mind saying a few words in consensus or
summary for the educators?

MISS JACOBY: Naturally I could say ditto to everything that
Mr. Myers has said, but I would also like to say that I feel, from what-
my assoc1ates in the educational ﬁeld have said and for myself, that this

58

 




 

has been a revelation to us of what the humane society really attempts
to do. I think we are aware now of the scope of this whole problem.

We have been made aware that it has vast possibilities, that we have
a very speciﬁc role in this as teachers and that we also have an added
role—those of us who are connected with professional associations-—
to make the associations aware of the importance of this whole subject.
I feel that we have gained here today in hearing that there is much
material already available, we can already start with and do something
with it now.

Again, we have got to ﬁnd out how to get this to our people because
it is the “how to do it” that is the most important, not just the discus-
sion of it.

We are hopeful that something more than just this discussion here
today can come out of it and perhaps we could summarize this statement
by saying “let’s be kind to the Humane Society and see that we do this.”

DR. SCUORZO: Thank you very much, Miss J acoby.

Miss J acoby, Mrs. Daines, Miss Jones, Dr. Poppendieck, Professor
Mehorter, Mrs. Stevens, Sister Veronice, Miss Feuchter, Mr. Myers and
all of our observers, and particularly Mr. Sichel who made this possible
through his efforts—thank you one and all.

MR. MYERS: May I conclude with something that I know that
everyone here would want said. I think that we were immensely
fortunate in the choice, with which I had nothing to do, of our moderator.
He was deft, dexterous, diplomatic and everything else nice.

59

 

 




NATIONAL EDITION

January-February 1962

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GOLDEN ANNIVERSARY

 




>H

6
I0
I2
I5
I6
I8
20
24
27
32
34
56
70
87

30
74
78
80
82
86

 
 

““ "We”
ORGANIZED 6‘
,7 I8 0

 

   
      

   
 

//
,r/ NATIONAL
’HUMANE REVIEW

January-February. I962

ISTO RY

Genesis

Henry Bergh

The Humane Educaior

Humane Socie’ry Pioneers

Child Pro+ec+ion Begins

The Rise of Child ProfecI'ion
Early Years

The Guiding Hand

In +he Words of Florence Maher
The Review and Mr. Coleman
Many DirecI’ions

Through I'he Years

Heroism Awards

The Boy Who Profecl’ed Horses

The National Humane Review

50 Years of service

to ihe humane cause

Published by The American Humane Associafion

Vol. 50. No. I

} ANNUAL REPORT

37 Execu’rive Direc’ror's Repori

40 Who's Who (Board of Direciors)
42 Financial ReporiL

44 Hollywood Office

48 Thai Special (BKA) Week

5| The Campaign for Humane SIaughI’er

54 Humane Educa+ion
55 ''Animals in Ar’r"

e3 Kindness 'Round +he World (ISPA)
64 Children's Division

66 Emergency Animal Reliei

76 on Call (AHA Field Consul’ran’rs)
84 The Search for a Humane Trap

} FEATURES

Phol'o Album

Tor’roises. David Gunsl'on

Easy Living MarmoI'. Grover Brinkman
LeHers

S’rar of His Own. Pauline L. Jensen
Eulogy on +he Dog

On ’rhe Cover

The Seal used by many SPCAs
‘ (upper) and ’rhe Seal used by
77 ~~~~~ many SPCCs (lower) +oge+her

\ form Jthe Corpora’re Seal of The
American Humane Associa’iion.
The Seal appearing on +he back
cover of I'his issue is used by

AHA generally.

  

   

88 Review Reviews

90 Those Wonderful Ca’rs
92 Home on ’rhe Muskeg, Wallace WesI’
94 Whal's a Dog Really Wor’rh?

96 Touchdown for Baby, Ann Marie Long

 

 

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW (Reg. US. Psitent
013559) 15 (Om/ﬁned With the National Humane journal. founded
1” 1870, 51”.“, [WWII/764' if? the intereit of the humane cause h)'
The American Humane Aiiociution and American Red Star
Anzmul Relief. The Review accept; the iuhmiiiion of free-lance
materiel. Articles, appropriate to the editorial purpoie of the
maguzzne, must he typed, double space; photography ibould he
8 x 10.14519“! 0” 8.10557 [7417” Return postage nzuit he included.
Adwmﬂﬂg W 47717724] food; and equipment for handling or
Curing (.07, “771772415 .75 dfcepted only after appraisal of the product
179’ 4517115077 7"6Z61'Z7Zd7'lﬂl’l. Patent medicine advert/.iing ii not
accepted. ‘

 

 

Issued bimonthly by The American Humane Association. Publication oflice: 404 N WesleV Ave Mount M ' '
e . s , ‘ . ., orris, 111.. editorial fﬁ .
v r, C . e - . ,i . 0 Ge 896 ‘ . , \
e 010 Subscriptions $1.50 pegggaghpqrelml $1.7m, Secong-eeiigggrlgzgltgggt'ﬁanionstea'kfuﬂltn\{hgd‘xlessniﬂl
erican Humane Association. 896 Pennsylvania‘stq Denveri'T'COIo:

correspondence intended for the publication to 896 Pennsylvania St., Den
No rsponsibility accepted for unsolicited material. Postmaster: If not delivered please send form 3579 to

 

 




 

 

OME 18,000 DAYS HAVE been torn from the calendar
since the birth of The National Humane Review. Some
were extraordinary days of emergency, of achievement,
of disaster, of triumph. But all were days on which some
step forward toward universal humaneness was taken.

Early in the planning of this Golden Anniversary issue of The
National Humane Review, it became clear that each day could not
be recorded. Nor could any single interpretation be placed on any one
phase of the humane movement’s growth and development. We have,
therefore, chosen to present the story which ampliﬁes the united
humane movement as a whole rather than the individual accomplish-
ments of The American Humane Association or of The National
Humane Review.

We are well aware that the information contained here is only
an outline of the history of humanitarianism. The limitations imposed
by time and space have, of necessity, eliminated many things that might
have been recorded. For this reason, it has been impossible to mention
the names of hundreds of individuals who have made signiﬁcant
contributions to humane history through the half century of the
magazine’s existence and through the 85 years of The American
Humane Association’s existence.

Such omissions in no way imply a lack of importance of the
happenings, or lack of appreciation of the. individual efforts. The
heart and soul of the humane movement are’r-its people. To everyone
who has had a role in strengthening the humane ideal through the
years, this Golden Anniversary issue of The National Humane
Review is dedicated.

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY. I962

Page 3

 




 

 

 

 

 

Page 4

 

 

THE WHITE HOUSE

\YAS I‘IIN GTON

I congratulate The‘American Humane Association on
the Golden Anniversary of THE NATIONAL HUMANE

REVIEW, which has faithfully served our country‘s
interest in humaneness and kindness for the past half

century.

To educate our people, and especially our children,
in humane attitudes and actions toward living things
is to preserve and strengthen our national heritage
and the moral values we champion throughout the

wor 1d .

In this important effort, your publication has long
exercised effective leadership. You can take pride
in your achievements of the past fifty years . Work-
ing with government - Federal, State, and local you
have helped to build humane principles into practical
law.

I wish you continued success in giving a voice to the
public conscience.

Sincerely,

 

John F. Kennedy

THE NATION
AL
HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY FEBR
- UARY I96
2

\

 

 




 

 
   
  
  
   
 
   

A Message

 

from the PI‘CSiant '

 

Late in 1912, the Honorable William H. Taft, then President
of the United States, learned that a magazine devoted to
the principles of humanitarianism was soon to be published.
So enthusiastic was Mr. Taft that he wired his immediate
congratulations. His words: “I am interested in humane
education and the teaching of peace principles to

the children of the United States and wish. it success.”
Now, a half century later, another President has expressed
his interest in humanitarianism. It is this magazine’s
privilege to present a letter from the Honorable ohn F.
Kennedy. Mr. Kennedy’s message, in its entirety,

appears on the opposite page.

 

    

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW-JANUARY-FEBRUARY. I962 Pages




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
   
  

we
a?”

9:5 . 0 ”:2”
Q

     

 

THERE WAS A SLIGHT haze in the
sky the morning of October 9, 1877.
Gray trees stood against a deepen-
ing sky preparing themselves for
winter. A chill breeze lifted little
puffs of dust and sent them skipping
down the street.

A small knot of men and women
stood anxiously on the steps of Cleve-
land’s fashionable Kennard House,
their attention caught momentarily
by a heavily loaded horse cart strug-
gling past.

When the cart disappeared around
the corner, the group entered the
building and joined another group
of people already seated in one of
the hotel’s private parlors.

Many of these people had been
strangers to each other only a few
hours before. They had all traveled
great distances to be together on this
day in Cleveland, Ohio. For a few
minutes there was silence as they
waited expectantly for something to
happen.

Then a sense of relief ﬁlled the
room as John C. Shortall rose and
made his way to the front of the
room. He glanced about him at the
ﬁve women and sixteen men'seated
before him.

“Ladies and gentlemen,” he said,
“you are here in answer to my invi—
tation to consider the question of
the maltreatment of animals in
transit between the east and west.”

Brief, to-the-point, thus began the

Page 6

enesis

“Our anterior; were

 

m untangle)? children . . .”

initial meeting of The American
Humane Association.

These dedicated humanitarians,
each a guiding hand in a local hu-
mane organization, had come to-
gether for this unprecedented meet-
ing. This was the first time, since the
founding of the ﬁrst American hu-
mane society only eleven years be-
fore, that humanitarians met to
consider the problems of a nation
that seemed steeped in cruelty.

The object of this new national
organization was to procure such
unity and concert of action as would
promote the interests common to
SPCAs and humane societies wher-
ever found.

Humanitarians who were unable
to attend the ﬁrst meeting of the
new organization sent letters: some
expressed sorrow at not being pres-
ent; others outlined possible sugges-
tions on the prevention of cruelty to
animals in transit; others simply
wished the new organization success.

The delegates in Cleveland
adopted the name “International Hu~
mane Society” but this was changed
the following year to the name bv
which the organization is now
known, The American Humane As-
sociation.

Edwin Lee Brown, the ﬁrst presi-
dent of the Illinois Humane Society
was selected as the ﬁrst presidenf
of the new organization. Abraham
Firth, secretary of the Massachusetts

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY

Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals. hccamc secretary.

Resolutions were adopted. Per-
haps the most important was to
pledge the new organization to a
battle for the adoption by Congress
of adequate laws which would pre-
vent the ill—treatment of animals in
transit. Other resolutions urged the
ofﬁcers of the different railroad com-
panies to cooperate with the Associa—
tion; suggested a fund for defrayng
the expenses of the Association;
asked that an assessment be made
upon all societies represented 01‘
which would later join the Associa-
tion. _

Henry Bergh, unable to be in
Cleveland, wrote: “So far as I under-
stand the purpose of the meeting,
there does not exist sufﬁcient reason
for calling it . . . but if the conven—
tion . . . at Cleveland has been called
for the purpose of ensuring a power—
ful concert of action to that end
(passage of a Federal law on live—
stock handling) I could better ap—
preciate its impcrtance; and even as
it is, I sincerclv hope that it may
result in good.” '

The ﬁrst meetingr of The Ameri—
can Humane Association was then
adjourned.

Today the Kennard House no
longer exists. The building stood for
many years as the Lincoln, 3 cheap
hotel for transients. The iron gl‘ill‘
work which formed the balcony

|962

 




 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 

  
 

w I :90

 

 

Royalty has always been interested O
in humane work. This illustration of
Queen Victoria and Princess Beatrice
is from a photograph presented by
Her Majesty to the Royal SPCA.

from which numerous prominent
Americans once spoke had long since
disappeared. Then the building was
demolished and now, a parking lot
has taken its place.

And yet, the Kennard House does
still exist in the spirit of those memo-
rable moments when The American
Humane Association ﬁrst came into
being. And the spirit of the Kennard
House of 1877 will endure long into
the future.

Who were the people and what
were the events that led up to the
October 9, 1877 meeting of humani-
tarians?

Our ancestors were as untaught
children. A child who has never
been taught to be kind to animals
will pull a fly to pieces without con-
cern; in a few years, the same child
having learned that animals are en-
titled to decent treatment, remem-
bers with shame its childish cruelty
to the fly.

The mind of a nation is of slower
growth than the mind of the individ-
ual. Our ancestors were blind to the
sufferings of animals because they
had never been taught to see them,
and although at first, the early hu—
manitarians were either laughed at
or ignored, they soon found that the
bulk of the people were willing to
reform themselves. A

The first suggestion to be made

‘ The ﬁrst attempt at humane legislation in
England was in 1800 when Sir W. Pulteney
introduced a bill to outlaw bull-baiting.

In 1822, the British Parliament passed the ﬁrst law in the history
of the world recognizing the rights of animals. Richard “Humanity”
Martin, the man who is now known as the father of the worldwide
anticruelty movement, was its sponsor.

 

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY. I962 page;

  




 

 

 

 

 

 

that animals should have legal pro-
tection seems to have been put forth
by an anonymous writer in an Eng-
lish magazine in 1749. The article
denounced cock ﬁghting and con-
cluded, in the words of the cock:
“Perhaps the legislature may not
think it beneath them to take our
sad case into consideration.”

In 1772, the Rev. James Granger
shocked England by presenting the
first sermon from the pulpit dealing
with cruelty to animals. His dis-
course “gave almost universal dis-
gust to two considerable congrega-
tions.” The mention of dogs and
horses was censured as “prostitution
of the dignity of the pulpit” and
considered proof of the Vicar’s in-
sanity.

The first real attempt, in 1800, to
obtain the passage of animal protec-
tive legislation in England was the
introduction of a measure to stop
the sickening sport of bull-baiting.
It was defeated. A second attempt,
two years later, also failed.

In 1809, Lord Erskine introduced
a bill “for preventing wanton and
malicious cruelty to animals.” Al-
though this bill passed the House of
Lords, it lost in the‘Commons.

Within a few months after the re-
jection of Lord Erskine’s bill, the
ﬁrst organization for preventing
cruelty to animals was established
in Liverpool, but it was short-lived.
Its supporters discovered that with—
out the aid of the law, one cannot
suppress cruelty to animals.

In 1822, the British Parliament
passed the ﬁrst law in the history of
the world recognizing the “rights of
animals” and compelling humane
care for dumb creatures.

Richard Martin, the man who
campaigned and fought for the pas-
sage of this law—and who knew
defeat many times before he saw
success—is often called the father of
the worldwide anti-cruelty move-
ment for the humane protection of
animals. As a result of his persever-
ance, King George IV who was his
personal friend, dubbed him with
the name “Humanity Martin.”

Since the days of his youth, Martin
determined to dedicate his life to
the passage of legislation that would
outlaw cruelty to animals. With
every failure, he knew that he was
slowly building up public sentiment
in favor of such legislation.

In 1822 he presented his bill pro—

Page 8

OPEN LETTER

 

Dear Friends:

Constant Readers.

great skill.

which it Speaks,

lasting.

stood the test of time,
continue to do so.

 

For a half century The National Humane Re-
view has been the nationwide voice of the humane
mavEment in the United States.
portion of thgt time, I have been one of its

Like most publications that achieve such a
dignified age, it has changed in format, style
and editorial flavor through the years.
had editors of great integrity and editors of
On the whole, we who have been
Constant Readers have come to appreciate the
former attribute more than the latter.
and integrity are the ingredients that make a
publication and the organization or cause for

editorial skill, but cleverness, alone, is too
shallow to remain standing by itself.
choice of integrity as the overriding editorial
requirement for The National Humane Review has
and will,
The Review circle of readers
is growing, and we are confident a great many
more Constant Readers will,
rusing a Special centennial issue.

Sincerely,

CHARLES W. FRIEDRICHS

President
The American Humane Assn.

For the greatest

It has

Honesty

This is not to belittle

The

we believe,

in 2012, be pe-

 

 

viding protection to cattle. This law,
known as “Martin’s Act,” ushered in
the beginning of a new age—a time
when man would recognize the
rights of animals.

Two years after Martin’s law
passed, a society for the prevention
of cruelty to animals was organized
in London. It was the ﬁrst of its kind
to endure anywhere in the world.
And, while Martin has come to be
recognized as its founder, Martin
himself cited the Rev. Arthur
Broome as the originator and
founder of the Society.

Royalty took a great interest in
humane work. Princess Victoria, at
the age of 16, showed intense devo-
tion to the principles of humani-

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY,

tarianism. On her accension to the
throne in 1837, she renewed her
patronage to the Society. In 1840,
she extended her patronage by per-
mitting the Society to use the pre-
ﬁx “Royal.” It has been known as
the Royal SPCA ever since.
“Humanity Martin” died in 1834,
at the age of eighty. A year after his
death, a bill was passed in the
English Parliament which provided
protection to all domestic animals.
Thus, England began to be hu-
mane. But nowhere else in the world
did man give a thought to his ani-
mals. It was not until 42 years after
the formation of the Royal SPCA, in
1866, that Henry Bergh brought the

anti-cruelty cause to America.

I962

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

4x

)ﬂC—__PKK___J¢K=

 

”DIEM—82C

4x #xzr

xx xx xx

xx 4x xzﬁ

xx 342% xx Dex ﬁex xx xx xx xx

xx

 

 

zap

xx xx xx xx xx ﬁne ﬂ?

T be Voice of the Voz'eelen

By ELLA WHEELER WILCOX

Poet Laureate of Humanity

I am the voice of the voiceless;
Through me, the dumb shall speak;
Till the deaf world’s ear be made to hear
The cry of the wordless weak.
From street, from cage, and from kennel,
From jungle and stall, the wail
Of my tortured kin proclaims the sin
Of the mighty against the frail.

For love is the true religion,
And love is the law sublime:
And all that is wrought, where love is not,
Will die at the touch of time.
And Science, the great Revealer,
Must ﬂame his torch at the Source;
And keep it bright with that holy light
Or his feet shall fail on the course.

For he who would trample kindness
And mercy into the dust—

He has missed the trail, and his quest will fail:
He is not the guide to trust.

Oh shame on the mothers of mortals
Who have not stopped to teach 9

Of the sorrow that lies in 'dear, dumb eyes,
The sorrow that has no speech.

Oh, never a brute in the forest,
And never a snake in the fen,
Or ravening bird, starvation stirred,
Has hunted his prey like men.
For hunger, and fear, and passion
Alone drive beasts to slay,
But wonderful man, the crown of the Plan,
Tortures, and kills, FOR PLAY.

He goes well fed from his table;
He kisses his child and wife;
Then he haunts a wood, till he orphans a brood,
Or robs a deer of its life.
He aims at a speck in the azure;
Winged love, that has ﬂown at a call;
It reels down to die, and he lets it lie;
His pleasure was seeing it fall.

The same force formed the sparrow
That fashioned Man, the King;

The God of the Whole gave a spark of soul
To each furred and feathered thing.

And I am my brother’s keeper,
And I will ﬁght his ﬁght,

And speak the word for beast and bird,
Till the world shall set things right.

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY. I962

Page 9

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Henry
Bergh

Founder and president of The T
American Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals, 1866 to 1888

NEW YORK of the early 1800’s into
which Henry Bergh was born, had
the dubious distinction of being one
of the dirtiest cities in the world.
Pigs and goats ran at will, per-
forming the simple task of garbage
collectors; horses panted, their ribs
sticking up through ﬂea-bitten skin,
tugging at too heavy loads; venders
sold wild pigeons, their wings ﬂap-

ping feebly, for a few cents, hawking
their wares from joggling carts; dogs
and cats ran wild, resigned to a ﬁnal
fate of a burlap bag and a rush of icy
water.

But young Bergh was the son of
a wealthy shipbuilder. Despite the
ﬁlth and squalor of the city that
surrounded him, his own home was
in the midst of respectability.

Henry Bergh devoted himself to improving the lot of animals.
He invented the horse ambulance before ambulances were used

by human hospitals.

a. m: L

l
I

' l1.
/- ‘ '7

 

 

 

Christian Bergh, Henry’s father,
hoped that his dramatic young son
would join him in his business em-
pire. But the young man declined.
Instead, he and his wife toured the
world.

It was on one of their trips, dur-
ing a stopover in London where
Bergh came in contact with the
Royal SPCA, that Bergh became a
changed man. From that time on,
Henry Bergh resolved that a work of
humaneness must be started in the
United States.

Henry Bergh—born to a fortune
and at home in the most exclusive
drawing rooms of America and Eu-
rope—began a long and weary, and
finally successful, battle to arouse
America to a consciousness of 1‘6-
sponsibility to animals.

In New York of 1865—and it was
the same throughout the nation—-
scarcely anyone paid any attention
to the horrible suffering that was in-
ﬂicted by man upon animals. The
law and public opinion regarded
animals as being merely property,
with no more rights than a chair or
a sack of ﬂour. If a man wished to
beat his horse, a few sentimental
persons might disapprove but the
ma]ority even of such persons would
agree that the owner had the right
to beat the horse. The horse had 110

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY. I962

 

 

 

S

1-.-

AI




 

“Only two horses in the crowd!”

It took great courage to stop over-

loaded street cars such as this.

Not only were “vested interests
, involved, but theiffiitraveling public
felt itself inconveﬁaienced.

right.

It was common, in those days, for
shopkeepers who wanted the atten-
tion-getting power of an animated
window display to place a dog on an
inclined treadmill in the window.
The dog had to run, continually, or
else be painfully piled up at the
lower end of the treadmill. Sports-
men used live pigeons for target
shooting; dog-ﬁghts were frequently
promoted as sporting events.

Worst of all were the conditions
among the tens of thousands of
horses and mules that hauled the
city’s trafﬁc. Drayage , {ﬁrms saw
horses as nothing more than ,eco-
nomic units. TeamSters were judged
by the amount of freight they could
beat a horse into moving, and the
speed with which they could keep
the horse traveling over the longest
endurable day.

No law prescribed sanitation in
dairies, so diseased coWs got only the
medical attention necessary to keep
them alive.

Across all. of the United States,
tens of millions of domestica‘animals
suffered unspeakably in an ocean of
dumb misery.

Against all this, Henry Bergh took
up his personal crusade.

When Bergh ﬁrst began fto at-

 

 

tempt, "in a small way, to alleviate
the suffering of individual animals
that came to his attention, he had
small success. He had no authority.
He had little inﬂuence. If he remon-
strated with a man kicking a horse,
the man usually snéered at the “med-
dler” and kicked“ the horse twice
as hard, just to demonstrate inde-
pendence. Bergh soon realized that
only an organized movement could
achieve any material good.
Fortunately, Henry Bergh had a
powerful social position in New
York. When he realized that he must
create an organization to support his

THE NATIONAL HUMANE' REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY. I962

“Men will be just toward men
when they are charitable toward
animals.” A page from an auto-
graph book owned by Charles N.
Schwall and presented to the
American SPCA in 1944.

 

cause, he created a good one. He
induced more than 70 prominent
New Yorkers to join him in a public
statement of the necessity of pro-
tecting animals from cruelty. Some
of the men whom Bergh got to sign
with him were Peter Cooper, John
Jacob Astor, Horace Greeley and
Mayor Hoffman.

Backed by the prestige of this
group, Bergh lobbied through the
New York legislature a bill, first of
its kind in America, forbidding at
least the worst kinds of abuse to
animals. Perhaps even more impor-
tant, the bill gave police power,

Page II

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

under certain conditions, to proposed
private humane societies.

In April, 1866 Bergh organized The
American Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals. Bergh was
elected president.

New York greeted the new organ-
ization very calmly. In fact, hardly
anyone but the founders even knew
that it had been chartered. Fewer
persons cared. Most people still
thought Bergh was only a “crank.”

But Bergh mapped out a thought-
ful campaign to make the city and
the country conscious of what he
was determined to do. He deliber-
ately sought a case that would test
the new law and his new police
power. He found it in a butcher’s
wagon, in which a mixed lot of
calves and sheep were hobbled with
rope around their legs and piled one
on top of another, like logs. The bot-
tom animals were near death of
suffocation, and some had broken
ribs and legs.

Bergh arrested the butcher.

The magistrate before whom
Bergh hailed the offender merely
joined the courtroom audience in
laughing at the complaint.

Undaunted, Bergh returned to the
streets and continued to arrest the
worst offenders. The judges contin-
ued to release many of the culprits
but, little by little, with inﬂuence
behind the scenes and with powerful
arguments in court, Bergh began to
make legal headway. He got a few
convictions. But he got little public
support.

Perhaps his most sensational court
case came when he arrested the cap-
tain and the entire crew of a
schooner that had arrived from Flor-
ida with a large cargo of live turtles,
destined for soup in the city’s swank-
ier restaurants. The turtles had made
the entire voyage on their backs,
with nails driven through their ﬂip-
pers to keep them fastened to the
sun-scorched deck.

Again, an unsympathetic judge
dismissed the charges of cruelty.
Smirkingly, he ruled that turtles
were ﬁsh, not animals, hence not
covered by the New York state law.

But, at last, Bergh discovered a
cruelty that won for him the support
of a substantial section of the public.
He capitalized on much the same
psychology that The American Hu-
mane Association has used in more
recent years in its efforts to alleviate

Page l2

brutality to animals being trans-
ported and in stock yards. He found
a way to identify kindness with the
public interest.

Most of New York’s milk supply,
in those days, came from dairies so
filthy as almost to defy description.
Cows were conﬁned in cellar stables
which no sunlight and little fresh
air ever reached. Manure fermented
underfoot and the cows were plas-
tered with ﬁlth. Flies crawled over
the animals and utensils by millions.
Brucellosis and tuberculosis were
the rule rather than the exception.
No matter how sick an animal, it was
milked as long as it would produce.

The cows were fed on garbage,
collected throughout the city. '

Bergh launched a sensational ex-
posure of the “garbage milk” indus-
try.

Newspapers, sensing a popular
story, used everything he sent to
them. And when Bergh began taking
belligerent dairymen to court, the
judges who had laughed at him ear-
lier found it expedient to heed the
popular indignation over the dairy
situation. Bergh became a public
hero.

How Henry Bergh became so
canny a publicity man is a mystery.
But, as expertly as would a high-
powered public relations counsel to-
day, Bergh used his success with the
dairy issue to interest many innately
kind men and women in the rest of
his program. He began to win vic-
tories over even the politically
powerful horse-car companies, which
traditionally had worked horses to
death in their traces.

The ASPCA had ﬁnancial prob-
lems—even as humane societies do
today. Bergh spent a large portion of
his own fortune on the work, then
became an expert amateur fund-
raiser. With a few large gifts and
many small ones, by sheer personal
energy Henry Bergh kept the move-
ment growing.

Today the ASPCA alone offers
shelter to more than a quarter of a
million animals a year and hundreds
of other organized societies, united
through The American Humane
Association, offer succor to millions
more annually. Best of all, public
opinion, which in 1865 almost uni-
versally branded Henry Bergh as a
fool if not actually vicious, today

almost universally applauds the
humane movement.

 

 

 

 

 

6

 

George T Angel]
Founder and President
Massachusetts SPCA
1868-1909

Credo: A little boy sat in front
of his father and held the reins
that controlled a restive horse.
Unknown to the boy, the reins
passed around him and were also
in his father’s hands. The father
saw an occasion to pull them.
With artless simplicity the child
looked around, saying: “Father,
I thought I was driving,- but I am
not, am 1?” Thus it is often with
men who think they are shaping a
destiny which a higher hand than
theirs is really directing. They (10
their own will because it is alSO
the will of God. A stronger hand
guides them; a mightier power
holds the helm of their vessel, and
saves from rock and wreck. H appy
are they who yield to the guidance
of the Almighty hand. '

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY, I962

 

 

’7

. A

‘— .—A- A m




ell
nt

09,

 

 

 

Humane Educator

THERE WERE THREE great pioneers
of the American humane move-
ment. Henry Bergh brought organ-
ized humaneness to the United
States; Elbridge T. Gerry inaugu-
rated the idea of preventing cruelty
to children; George T. Angell cre—
ated humane education.

George Thorndike Angell devoted
his life to reforming an educational
system which practically ignored the
principles of kindness and compas-
sion. He was the ﬁrst to develop the
full possibilities of humane educa-
tion. He never neglected an oppor-
tunity to work toward the increased
acceptance of it.

George T. Angell was born in
Massachusetts on June 5, 1828. From
early childhood he was extremely
fond of animals. He personally inter-
fered in a number of cases of cruelty
to animals long before he ever heard
of such a thing as an SPCA.

Two years before the formation
of the American Society in New
Y'Ork, Angell drew up a will giving
a considerable portion of his prop-
erty for use in circulating informa-
tion “calculated to prevent cruelty
to animals.”

Angell attended Brown University
and was graduated from Dartmouth
in 1846. He then studied law and
was admitted to the Massachusetts
Bar. He spent some 20 years as an
attorney and then gave up the pro-
fession to devote himself to the thing
that was most important to him—
humane work.

The event tliat determined An-
gell’s course was a horse endurance
rice. Two of the ﬁnest horses died
as a dire't result of it.

Outraged by the harsh cruelties
that had taken place during this so-
called “sporting event,” Angell wrote
a letter to a Boston newspaper, re-
counting the details of the race and
calling upon those who were inter-
ested to join him in forming a society
for the prevention of cruelty to
animals.

As Angell said later to friends: “I

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY. I962

had heard that Henry Bergh had
started a society in New York and I
determined that somebody must take
lold of this business here and I might
as well as anybody.”

The morning after the letter ap-
peared, a number of distinguished
people called upon Angell and of-
fered their support. Among these
was Mrs. William Appleton who had
with her the signatures of some 90
influential friends who had agreed
to become patrons of the society.

The newly-formed group imme-
diately applied for a state charter
which was granted on March 23,
1868. Angell was the first president,
and held the position continually
until his death.

At Angell’s insistence, an anti-
cruelty law was brought before the
Massachusetts legislature. Six days
after the measure became law, An-
gell proposed to his board of direc-
tors something that here-to-fore had
been unheard of.

He wanted the Massachusetts
SPCA to begin the publication of a

monthly magazine that would be
widely circulated in behalf of hu—
mane education.

It was a bold move but on June 2,
1868 the ﬁrst edition of Our Dumb
Animals appeared. Members of the
Boston police force delivered that
ﬁrst edition to residents of the city
at no charge to the SPCA.

Angell applied an almost un-
believable amount of energy to every
phase of his society’s operations and
by the end of its ﬁrst year, his health
broke. He left for an extended rest
trip in Europe.

While abroad, Angell met ofﬁcers
of the Royal Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals. He de-
scribed to them, in glowing terms,
the wonderful value of a society
publication. Accordingly, the Royal
SPCA began publication of its maga-
zine, The Animal World, a name
partially suggested by Angell.

Angell had another idea while in
England. He suggested to members

of the Royal SPCA that he thought
it would be an excellent thing it the
society conducted an essay contest
for school children.

The contest was so successful that
Angell became an advocate of this
method of stimulating humane inter-
est among children when he returned
to America in 1870.

A short time after his return to the
States, Angell was invited to Chicago
to aid in organizing a humane soci-
ety there. By the end of six months
of active work, he had the pleasure
of seeing the Illinois Humane Society
well established.

His success so impressed the presi-
dent of the new group, Edwin Lee
Brown, that later when Brown
served as president of The American
Humane Association in 1878, he sug-
gested that Angell do some lecturing
for the Association.

Accordingly, as chairman of AHA’s
executive committee, Angell gave
ﬁfteen addresSes before large audi-

ences in Baltimore, Richmond and
Washington, DC. on behalf of

animals.

At the following meeting of the
Association in Chicago, George T.
Angell was appointed AHA mission-
ary to organize humane societies
throughout the country on. behalf of
the Association.

The resolution making the ap-
pointment read: “The evidence be-
fore this Association has convinced
us that missionary work is now de-
sirable and necessary in the growing
cities and towns of our country and
especially in the region west of Chi-
cago . . and it is the unanimous
conviction of this Association that
George T. Angell of Boston is the
man for this service; and the execu-
tive committee are desired to make
such arrangements with him as may
be necessary to put him in this ﬁeld
now ripe for a harvester.”

This was the beginning of a series
of humane missionary journeys
through the states as far west as the
Dakotas and south to New Orleans.

Page l3

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Among the large societies that he,
aided occasionally by Brown, helped
to form were the Wisconsin Humane
Society and the Connecticut Humane
Society.

Through his counsel, the influence
of his lectures and the compelling
power of his enthusiasm, George
Thorndike Angell probably led to
the formation of more societies than
any other humanitarian.

Despite his deep interest in hu-
mane missionary work, Angell still
devoted himself to humane educa—
tion, his prime interest. In 1882 he
had a visitor from England. The Rev.
Thomas Timmins, founder of the
ﬁrst Band of Mercy for children,
described the success of this idea.
Angell was so impressed with the
idea that he immediately formed the
first American Band of Mercy.

That same year, 1882, The Ameri-
can Humane Association appointed
Angell to head a committee to pre-
pare a pamphlet in regard to the
humane education of children. An-
gell accepted and launched into this
project with relish.

Another great achievement, and
the one which Angell ranked as his
greatest, was the founding of the
American Humane Education Soci-
ety in 1889. During the 20 years he
had been devoting to the subject of
cruelty to animals, he had come to

 

Massachusetts SPCA and Angell Memorial Hospital, circa 1920.

Page I4

    

 

....

I I :I L ' ‘-
- ﬂ. ‘3 'hl .. 51.15“, '\
'.~!:::;-~‘“\'\'\'\\‘®’\n . \\\“\\\\-“l“'/":’
« s» .\-:~:-l\~\\>s-—-"//;:
Il,’
/

'\

o

I)

it'f‘t‘ \‘\ /
'1‘ 'I \§\\\

\\

1"—
II” ’l,')‘\

. '2 ~ '-

.f/

[I’I‘ ‘\
I’I

\\

$

\

\\\

\\

\M‘

.\\\\
\ ‘\
I

\‘\K
.o‘.‘ ‘\
\

\:\\\

\\

\

x.

\\
. .\
l'.’
’ .
1’“...
/’I

‘9
.6

\\

\

I

§§§Ss

\ .
\ . .'
\‘ o'.’ I
kiss” ’
x‘

n. “
\‘
.\ .‘ ' .
\1 .- ..

55“
\ x3

.S-3

t.“ ; ‘
\\\\

\mx'
\\\\\\

\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\_\\§\

$3:
a
\.\\\~

\
\f‘: ‘x
\

'\‘\\§S\\\\“
.“
\

\\\\\\\\\\\\

‘\
\‘\
. ‘ \“‘ .
1‘1 \\
N}

\
\

s-
.\ ‘\\ -
.
\‘ ‘ .\ l \ \ \\‘\‘\\\‘\\\

\\
\“‘

 
 

\\‘\ ‘
\\\\

\

\\\\\' \\

/
. . ‘\\ ~ \\“"‘ “7' ' ' ‘

\\‘\\s . ~Q- \
v \\\\\ \\

\\\\Q\\\\

TS\\\'§.\\\

\A

  
 

--.\

gs “.\.§‘~ s.

5%
91$

Lr,//’//
/_/////

/

- 2w, ." ’

-"///

\x‘a“:
\ \Q. ~\
~ .‘ \ \\\\\_\
‘ _ . . . -
, .
\1‘

\
\9

//////4////
\ \x“: \
\\X\

/’/
's‘xk

\ u \ 5 \§\\\\\‘ \
.f
0‘ ' \ .
.\
\ ~ . . n K
. ; . \

‘ \‘Q
‘\\‘\
‘n.
\ ~ ‘

\\
.“.\§

 

. 2"

‘~

 

    
   
    
 

 

 

 

   

m. . ................,.............
m. MLWWIWWW

 

 

M

“We give our readers a picture of the Church of the Unity, Boston,
from whose pulpit we had the pleasure of giving on Sunday, May 21,
1871 the first address (so far as we have been able to ascertain) on
the duty of protecting dumb animals from cruelty ever given by a layman
on Lord’s day from any Christian pulpit in the wo'rld.”—George T. Angell.

believe that humane education was
of greater importance than prosecu-
tion. His new organization had for
its purpose the creation and distribu-
tion of such propaganda as would be
useful to humane workers.

George Thorndike Angell died in
Boston on March 16, 1909. just be-
fore his death he said: “I have suc-
ceeded in everything I have tried
to do.” This was not the boast of an

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY

egotist but the candid expression of
an optimist. He believed his life had
been divinely guided and thus he
undertook his projects with a con-
ﬁdence not found in most men.

The memory of George T. Angell
has been preserved in many ways,
among them a magniﬁcent drinking
fountain for animals and a public
school bearing his name. But his
crowning memorial was the erection
of the Angell Memorial Animal Hos-
pital which was formally dedicated
in 1915 under the direction of his
successor, Dr. Francis H. Rowley.

Dr. William O. Stillman, president
of The American Humane Associa-
tion, addressing delegates to the
Association’s annual meeting in 1909,
gave this tribute:

“Mr. Angell was a giant in this
cause. He, more than anyone, per—
haps, Who has recently lived, has

glven impetus to the humane move-
ment,”

I 962

 




 

 
     
   
  

Humane
Society

Pioneers

IT SEEMS MOST apropos that two of
this country’s pioneer humane organ-
izations should have been founded
in the City of Brotherly Love and in
the City of St. Francis (patron saint
of animals.)

Philadelphia was the first city after
New York to take action in behalf
of animals; the fourth SPCA in
America was organized in San Fran-

cisco. (The Massachusetts SPCA
was the third such organization
formed.)

Colonel M. Richard Mucklé had
viewed with heavy heart the acts
of cruelty that took place daily in the
streets in front of his ofﬁce in Phila-
delphia. But it was not until he saw
a newspaper account of Henry
Bergh’s New York activities that he
realized that there was something
he could do. He determined that
Philadelphia must have a similar
program. He immediately had pub—
lished a call for interested citizens
to meet and consider the possibilities
of forming an SPCA.

Independent of Col. Mucklé’s ac-
tion, another devoted Philadelphia
humanitarian had been working
along similar lines. Mrs. Caroline
Earle White who had learned of the
Royal SPCA’s work from her Irish
husband also determined to bring
humaneness to Philadelphia.

Mrs. White had not seen Col.
Mucklé’s call—to-action, but through
correspondence with Bergh, she

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY.

  

learned of the local activity and im-
mediately volunteered her assistance.
Thus on June 21, 1867, the Penn-
sylvania SPCA was instituted. It was
granted a charter, with statewide
jurisdiction, on April 4, 1868.

Meanwhile, across the continent
in San Francisco, a pig escaped from
a drove on the waterfront.

The animal’s shrill squealing,
caused by the brutal way in which
two men tried to recapture it,
brought James S. Hutchinson run-
ning into the street to stop the out—
rage.

Hutchinson had also heard of
Bergh’s work. He resolved then and
there that his city, too, should have
a society that could prevent scenes
such as he had just witnessed. The
San Francisco SPCA was organized
on April 8, 1868 and incorporated
ten days later.

The two societies made almost
immediate inroads against cruelty in
their respective cities. The people
who had founded them devoted the
remainder of their lives to the hu-
mane cause.

From the ﬁrst Col. Mucklé took a
leading part in the development and
guidance of the Philadelphia group
but he refused repeatedly to accept
the presidency. The position was
held for several years by prominent
men, including Robert W. Ry‘erss
who became the society’s chief

Col. M. Richard Muckle

Mrs. Caroline E. White

James S. Hutchinson

benefactor.

Upon Ryerss’ death in 1896, Col.
Mucklé was finally persuaded to take
the Society’s executive position.

Because women were not com-
monly accorded at that time the dis-

tinction of holding ofﬁces, Mrs.
White was not made an ofﬁcer of the
Pennsylvania SPCA. But she worked
diligently for the organization. In
1869, at the suggestion of friends,
she founded the “Women’s Branch”
of the Society and served as its presi-
dent. (The Women’s Branch later
became a separate entity under the
name “Women’s SPCA of Pennsyl-
vania.”)

Mrs. White was one of the earliest
supporters of The American Humane
Association. She attended all early
meetings, including the ﬁrst, and
served on the Association’s advisory
council.

Until 1959, the San Francisco
SPCA had but three treasurers.
Frunder James Sloan Hutchinson
held the ofﬁce from 1868 to 1919
when he died. His son, Edward C.,
then became the Society’s treasurer
until his death in 1940. The Hutchin-
son tradition was carried on, how-
ever, when another son of the
founder, James Sather, replaced his
brother. His death in 1959 marked
the ﬁrst time in the San Francisco
SPCA’s history that a Hutchinson
was not serving the Society.

'962 Page IS

    




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Tom Conway, appearing as Henry Bergh i

 

    

n this scene from M-C-M’s ﬁlm, “The

Great Meddler,” shows judge the weapons used by a woman to beat her child.

Child Protection

By MRS. ETTA WHEELER
Report to the 37th AHA annual
meeting, October 13-16, 1913, Roch-
ester, N.Y.

 

Begins

E Late in 1873 the story was brought
to me that during the two previous
years there had lived in the rear
tenement at 349 West list Street,
New York City, a family of three
persons, a man, a woman and a little
girl, supposed to be ﬁve or six years
old; that during these two years, the
child had been a close prisoner,
having been seen only once by the
other tenants; that she was often
cruelly whipped and verv frequently
left alone the entire (lav, locked in
a dark inner room. .

I went the same day to the tene-
ment to which the familv had a week
before removed and after long delay
was admitted. I saw a pale, thin
child, barefooted. in a thin. scanty

At 1913 AHA convention were: 1°
to '.: Hon. Peter G. Gerry, vice
president, New York SPCC; Dr-
William O. Stillman, AHA pl'eSi'
dent, R. J. Parr, director of Great
Britain’s National SPCC and center,
Mrs. Louis Schutt (Mary Ellen.)

Page I6 THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY I962

 




 

 

 

dress, so tattered that I could see
she were but one garment besides.

It was December and the weather
was bitterly cold. She was a tiny mite,
the size of ﬁve years, though as after-
ward appeared, she was then nine.

Across the table lay a brutal whip
of twisted leather strands and the
child’s meager arms and legs bore
many marks of its use.

But the saddest part of her story
was written on her face, in its look
of suppression and misery, the face
of a child unloved, of a child that
had seen only the fearsome side of
life.

Finally I applied to the Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Ani-
mals, and Mr. Bergh promised to
consider the case. The very next day
he sent a detective to investigate,
and the second day the child was
rescued from her cruel bondage.

She was brought into court sob-
bing bitterly and quite wild with
fright. She was wrapped in a carriage
blanket and was .. ,without other
clothing than the two ragged gar-

THE NATIONAL HUMANE R'EVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY.

The Story_of Mary

 

 

 

Ellen

 

Modern child protection begins with the story of Mary
Ellen Wilson. Photo left: Mary Ellen at trial—note scis-

sors on ﬂoor. Photo right:

ments I had seen her in months be-
fore. Her body was bruised, her
face disﬁgured, and the woman, as if
to make testimony sure against her-
self, had the day before struck the
child with a pair of shears, cutting a
gash through the left eyebrow and
down the cheek, fortunately escaping
the eye.

The child’s appearance was testi-
mony enough; little of mine was
needed. And thus, on Thursday,
April 9, 1874, her rescue was accom-
plished. This Mr. Bergh had effected
within forty-eight hours after first
hearing the ‘case.

Several months after trial.

 

When leaving the Court House I
tried to thank Mr. Bergh for the
rescue of the child and asked if there
could not now be a Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Children,
which should do for abused children
what was being so well done for
animals.

He took my hand and said, very
emphatically, “There shall be one.”

Today all the world knows how
well that promise was kept. The time
was come for a forward movement
in the welfare of children, and little
Mary Ellen’s hand had struck the

hour.

I962 Page l7

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I IT SEEMS ALMOST .,_,.unbelievable
that people didn’t begin to care
about children until just less than a
century ago.

And it seems even more impossible
that the beginning of child protection
should have come about through the
pathetic story of Mary Ellen—a child
who was rescued from horrible

t cruelty because she was receiving
6 treatment worse than that given to
an animal!

The story of Mary Ellen and her

subsequent rescue by Henry Bergh,
I 0 founder of the American Society for
A the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals,

is known to all humanitarians.
One fact that is usually omitted
' ' from the accounts of Mary Ellen’s
l I‘OtGCtlon day in court is that the child, when

' less than two years of age, had been
taken from an institution. In the
seven years during which she lived
with the man and woman who had
abused her—they were not her par-
ents, only her guardians—no inquiry
about the child’s welfare had ever
been made by the institution.

After Henry Bergh agreed to de-
fend the child’s rights, he obtained
the competent counsel of a young
attorney who had previously served
as ASPCA counsel.

This man was Elbridge T. Gerry,
already prominent in legislative
circles and winning praise for his

legal skills.

Gerry was intrigued by the fact
that in a large and supposedly in-
telligent community such as New
York, there was more concern for
animals than for children. He pitched
into the Mary Ellen case with a
vigor rarely seen in court trials.
When he had successfully disposed
of the case, he began urging the
formation of a society like that
founded by Bergh. But instead of
animals, this new society would pro-
tect the rights of children.

There were at that time numerous
laws on the statute books of New
York that provided for the young
unfortunates whose lives were rend—
ered miserable by the system 0.f
cruelty and abuse practiced by those
who had custody of children.

But, pointed out Gerry, no one had
been held responsible for the en—
forcement of those laws. A Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Children, Gerry told his friends,
would see that existing laws were
energetically enforced and that vio-

Page l8 THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY,

 

I962

 




 

lators would bel-promptly punished.

With the help and support of
Henry Bergh, and through his own
inﬂuence, Gerry ﬁnally succeeded in
calling together a meeting for the
purpose of establishing a group de-
voted to helping children. Eleven
men answered Gerry’s call and on
December 15, 1874 the ﬁrst SPCC
became a reality.

john D. Wright, a retired mer-
chant, was named as the organiza-
tion’s ﬁrst president. Gerry accepted
the position of general counsel and
secretary. Bergh became vice presi-
dent, the position he' held in the
organization until his death in 1888.

This was the beginning of the
child protective movement, not only
in America but in the world. The
idea of giving protection to children
caught on and the movement en-
joyed immediate approval. Similar
children’s societies sprang up all over
the United States.

The New York group was ofﬁcially
incorporated in 1875. Through the
courtesy of Henry Bergh, it was
given headquarters in the ASPCA
building.

In june of 1875 the ﬁrst case prose-
cuted by the Society under a new
law for the prevention of cruelty to
children was tried in New York’s
Special Court. A man was arraigned
for compelling his two sisters, aged
nine and ﬁve, to enter disorderly
houses to sell flowers.

There was no reference to any
humane work but that of protection
for animals at the ﬁrst meetingof
The American Humane Association
in Cleveland in 1877. But the follow-
ing year, a representative of the San
Francisco SPCA moved that the
words “and children” be added to
the declaration of organization “for
the prevention of cruelty to animals.”

There was considerable discussion
among delegates at the AHA meet-
ing over this point—not because of
any opposition to children’s societies,
but because of the fear that making
children’s societies part of the Hu-
mane Association would confuse the
work.

Finally at Gerry’s urging, and be—
cause he had the support of many
other SPCA leaders, the children’s
movement became a part of The
American Humane Association. At
the seventh AHA convention, rep—
resentatives from children’s groups
in ten states were in attendance.

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY. I962

Word was also received that year of

the founding of the ﬁrst foreign chil-
dren’s society in Liverpool, England.

During the ﬁrst years of its exist-
ence, the New York SPCC succeeded
in obtaining many new laws or
amendments to those already in ex-
istence. All these laws were codiﬁed
during the years 1881-1884 and have

served as the foundation for chil-‘

dren’s laws adopted throughout the
United States. They are the basis for
all recent legislation in the world
dealing with the prevention of
cruelty to children.

From the beginning, Gerry was
closely identiﬁed with the child pro-
tective movement. His personal de-
votion was famous. And so well
established in the minds of New
Yorkers became the SPCC itself that
New York police justices began send-
ing parents or others who appealed
to them in cases of child abuse di-
rectly to Gerry.

Elbridge T. Gerry was elected
president of the New York Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Children on September 4, 1879. He
remained at the organization’s head
until 1900.

As the SPCC’s work broadened,
the necessity for its existence be-
came more apparent. With the in—
creased knowledge of conditions,
there was seen also the necessity of
even more new laws. In 1888 the
Society succeeded in having the New
York legislature pass a law prevent-
ing baby farming.

The ﬁrst Child Labor Law, pro-
hibiting the employment of all chil-
dren under 14 and providing that no
child under 18 should work for more
than 60 hours per week, ﬁnally was
passed in 1886 after years of cam-
paigning.

The Society’s success in having this
law passed brought to it the venom
and malice of many employers who
would lose manpower—and money—
because of the elimination of child
labor. An insidious and personal at-
tack was launched by them against
Cerry and his SPCC. The attack in
turn led to an unfriendly attitude on
the part of some legislators and for
a while made the SPCC’S work
doubly difﬁcult.

The fact that Elbridge T. Gerry,
on whose shoulders the child’s move-
ment had rested from its very incep-
tion, was an able attorney devoting
his entire time to the Society’s work,
accounts in a very large measure for

 

the success of the organization in
overcoming the disapproval of the
employers.

In 1900 Gerry notiﬁed the SPCC
board of directors that he intended
to give up the ofﬁce of president
which he had held for 20 years. In
his ﬁnal report as chief executive of
the organization, he restated the
principles on which he had worked.

“The cardinal and elementary
principle which the Society has in-
variably maintained,” said Gerry, “is
to err, if at all, in the interest of the
child.

“Parental rights are regulated and
deﬁned by law. The child, on the
other hand, is, in the eye of the law,
an infant and absolutely helpless.
Only by getting the distinction from
any side can it be duly protected.

“The outcry is often raised by sen-
sational journalism that parents are
disregarded and their rights invaded;
and yet during the whole 26 years of :
its existence, never once has the So-
ciety or its ofﬁcers been made the‘
subject of legal penalty for any ‘ar-
bitary’ or ‘despotic’ act. Fearless in
enforcement, its work has always
been in accordance with the law.”

It was due to this attitude that the
child protective movement, late as it
appears in the history of civilization,
was successful—it was and has been
always in accordance with the law!

{1: 1W: {Jr

, Editor’s note: In retiring from the

presidency, Gerry retained the ofﬁce
of counsel for the SPCC to which
he had been reelected in 1883. He
held that ofﬁce until his death in
1927. . ..

'H i s s o n ,
United States
SenatorPeter G.
Gerry, was elec-
ted a director of
the New York
Society. for the
Prevention of
Cruelty to Chil-
dren in 1905 and . . .
died in ofﬁce in 1957. The Senator
also served on the board of direc—
tors of The American Humane Asso-
ciation from 1910 to 1953.

Gerry’s grandson, also Elbridge
T., "was elected a director of the
SPCC inr‘iiHlQSZ, served as treasurer
from 1938 to 1946 and has been
president since then. His son,“ El-
bridge, jr., has beena member of the
SPCC board of directors since 1959..

 

 

Page i?

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

Early

Kind to pets in childhood, Benevolent in middle life. Honored and revered in declining years.

 

Years

IT HAS BEEN SAID that a humane
movement would not have ﬂour-
ished in the United States should it
have been attempted even ten years
sooner. The Civil War, following
President Lincoln’s election and the
President’s subsequent Emancipation
Proclamation, established a con-
science for America.

This great war set a stage; it called
America’s attention to man’s cruelty
to man as well as to the unfortunate
lot of those beings which were not
human.

The American Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Animals was
founded by Henry Bergh in 1866.
Despite a long, hard and uphill
struggle, the spark of humanitarian-
ism caught; other men and women
from throughout the nation took up
Bergh’s banner.

Within ten years after the found-
ing of the ASPCA, 27 local humane
organizations were in operation
across the United States from New
Hampshire to California.

All of these organizations were
working toward a common goal—the
alleviation of cruelty. But each soci-

Page 20

ety was aiming at its goal in a dif-
ferent way. There was no common
meeting ground where society lead-
ers could come together to discuss
their programs with each other.
There was no opportunity for one
organization to observe the methods
used by another. And when a prob-
lem crossed local lines, humane ac-
tivity was very often completely
stymied.

The idea of a national congress of
local humane organizations had been
expressed on occasion by various
individuals. But in 1877, John C.
Shortall, then president of the Illi-
nois Humane Society, acted to bring
it about.

The American Humane Associa-
tion came into existence as a result
of Shortall’s letter calling together
humanitarians to consider means for
combating abuses connected with
cattle transportation.

Twenty-two delegates from ten
states gathered at this now historic
meeting and decided that much good
would be accomplished by a perma-
nent organization of humane socie-
tics.

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY.

 

All. ..

Inhuman treatment of mother and child.

The new national organization
immediately prepared a statement
of principles (and this statement
holds true‘even today). “The object
of this organization is to procure
such unity and concert of action as
will promote the interests common
to SPCAs and humane societies
wherever found.”

This little band of humane en-
thusiasts was not viewed with favor
by the general public. Every con-
ceivable slander was hurled at them
by railroad and other related inter-
ests to hold up the approaching re-
forms that observers knew would be
brought about by these people.

When the Association again met
at its second convention in Baltimore
the following year, it attracted the
attention of many humanitarians
who had not been present the pre—
Vious year.

And because of the integrity of
those who had formed the group,
already a small break in public opin-
ion was noted. “Humaneness” was
becoming an accepted word in the
American vocabulary. Newspapers
were beginning to offer tentative
support. Various business interests
were admitting that there was an
advantage to kindness over cruelty.

Reports of accomplishments and
discussions on new strategy for cat-
tle legislation occupied many hours
of the Baltimore meeting. But other
topics were also considered.

The question of whether the Asso-

I962

 




 

 

 

 
 
 
 

w/ﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂw0“9‘ ...,
.. “Ts "'3

  

\ \ \_
~ \\\i\\\\\\\
\\\\\~f.‘ \
\ xl- .

 

     
    
       
    

 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 

 
   
 

 

11'?“ PM?! in] ‘a‘
7% 7'7 5W“ a” ﬁll

   
  
  

   
 

.
, .g

 

ciation should include child protec-
tion work as part of its activities was
put before delegates. An amendment
to the Association’s by-laws on this
point was defeated. (It was not until
1885 that it was agreed to devote
the efforts of AHA to both child and
animal welfare work.)

It was decided at this meeting in
Baltimore to ask the United States
Congress to grant a national charter
to the Association which would in-
clude all legal powers that such a
society ought to have in carrying on
a national work. Those who had
been appointed to follow through
on this project reported the next
year that Congress was “too em-
battled over the coming Presidential
election to consider the Association’s
request for a charter.” (The Ameri-
can Humane Association was ﬁnally
incorporated in the District of Co-
lumbia in 1903.)

The treasurer reported that con-
tributions over the past year (from
October 9, 1877 to November 18,
1878) had amounted to $656.78 and
a balance of only $81.03 remained.
How could the Association survive
without money, he asked. A delegate
suggested that everyone present
should pledge a certain amount. At
the end of a pledge—taking period, a
total of $2,500 had been promised.
Abraham Firth, the Association’s
secretary had given $1,500 of that
amount.

During

third

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY. I962

the Association’s

      

CRUELTY TO
ANIMALS IN LOADING.

year, Zadok Street of Salem, Ohio
traveled 18,000 miles in behalf of
AHA to survey stock transportation
abuses. His observations were “a
vivid description of horror, the re-
sult of practices which would never
have been expected from civilized
beings and which the savage tribes
inhabiting the western wilds could
never equal.”

The frightful conditions of the
cattle cars as reported by Street at
the Association’s third convention in
Chicago inspired AHA to raise a
fund of $5,000 to oﬁer as prizes for
the best improved cattle car.

Railroad managers, superintend-
ents, stockyard ofﬁcials and livestock
shippers had accepted the new or—
ganization by 1879 and many of
them also attended the Chicago con-
vention.

One freight agent for the Lake
Shore Railroad spoke to delegates
telling them that the chief cause of
mistreating cattle was the overload-
ing of freight cars. He added that
any man, in his opinion, who used

 

 

‘ 1
ll“

a prod or goad deserved to go to
prison.

A Chicago stockyard executive
told delegates of his efforts to elimi-
nate some of the barbaric equip-
ment in use. The superintendent of
another railroad announced that
cruelty on his line had been reduced
by many percentage points over the
past ﬁve years. The representative
from Union Paciﬁc announced that
his firm was ready to adopt any im-
proved cattle cars which would less-
en suffering and fairly meet the
needs of the stock trade.

AHA published its first pamphlet
in 1880: “Cruelty to Animals on the
Railroads.” This publication re-
ceived wide and enthusiastic distri-
bution. The year 1880 also saw the
first acceptance of the telephone in
local humane work as the Illinois
Humane Society and The Pennsyl-
vania SPCA representatives spoke
very eloquently in behalf of the
instrument.

The ﬁrst really great advance in
the elimination of livestock trans-

Page 2|

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

portation cruelties was made when
the Federal Government placed the
enforcement of the 28-hour law in
the hands of the Department of Ag-
riculture. The steps leading up to
this advance began in 1881 when
delegates to the AHA convention de-
cided to put forward a test case on
the law which had been in effect
since March 8, 1878 but which had
never been enforced. Although it
took several years to complete the
case, theﬁnal decision was in favor
of the Association.

AHA received its ﬁrst bequest in
1881 from Mrs. Mary F. Ripley of

 

THE NATIONAL HUMANE

South Hingham, Mass. That same
year, delegates voted to permit the
AHA president to hire a secretary.

The year 1882 saw the beginning
of a long struggle that lasted until
1958 when the President of the
United States signed into law a hu-
mane slaughter bill. AHA examined
the systems for killing and dressing
cattle in 1882 and made the state—
ment that slaughtering could be
humane. Despite the previously
unheard-of suggestion that animals
deserved a humane death, large
newspapers came out in favor of
AHA’s activities and strongly criti-

cized the cruelties practiced by the
cattle shippers and slaughterers.

Interest at the 1883 convention in
\Vashington, D.C., centered on un-
necessary and excessive branding of
cattle and the cruelties of barbed
wire fences. Five gold medals were
awarded to men who, in the employ
of railroad companies, had intro‘
duced improved cattle cars.

Delegates that year were eager
to obtain information about forming
junior humane societies. And the
wanton destruction of buffalo on
the western plains was another in-
dignation that caught the attention
of the humanitarians in Washington.
They urged Congress to pass a law
which would keep the animals from
becoming extinct.

Delegates also asked the Federal
Government to stamp all meat so
that it would bear positive evidence
of its condition when slaughtered.
The members of AHA visited the
White House where President
Arthur received every one of them.

Several times in the national As-
sociation’s short existence, the need
for such an organization had been
questioned. No one had given too
much serious thought to the question
—until it erupted in Pittsburgh in
1884. Even some whose names rank
high in the history of the humane
movement favored disbanding the
Association.

The difﬁculty arose from the fact
that some (not all) local societies
felt the national Association was no
longer a congress of societies as it
started out to be, but had by degrees
accumulated force enough to claim a
jurisdiction over the societies.

Those in favor of retaining the
Association heatedly denied the
charges. They put forth the state-
ment that the Association had been
organized to help the local societies
-not to rule them.

Two of the Association’s staunch-
est defenders, Dr. John E. Smith of
Wheeling and AHA Secretary
Thomas E. Hill of Chicago imme—
diately rose to speak in behalf of
the Association. So eloquent were
there pleas to keep AHA in opera-
tion, that the delegates decided, on
vote, that it was “inexpedient to
change in any way the form of the
organization of this Association.”

With the decision to continue the
Association, its founder, John G.
Shortall was elected president.

There were numerous problems

REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY. I962

 

 

 

 




 

 

discussed at the eighth AHA conven-
tion despite the uncertainty of the
Association’s existence when ‘the
meeting fi1st convened.

These included the slaughte1 of
birds for fashion, humane killing
of animals cruel cattle branding.
Following years saw other problems
as well: the use of live animals as
targets, long distance horse endur-
ance races, docking of horse’s tails,
the Wholesale slaughter of birds for
their plumage, humane education,
etc.

The Association in 1884 also
elected its first honorary members,

all devoted humanitarians who had '

stood by the Association from its in-
ception. These were Mrs. William
Appleton, Miss Anne Wigglesworth,
Abraham Firth and Edwin Lee

Brown.

   

lllllll

 

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRU'ARY.v

‘ uted far

lllllll II ll
TlIII Illrllllll
WI
/ 1

II t. 777

Cruel transportation of calves through Ne“ York City.

The American Humane Associa-
tion, once again on strong grounds
with its members as well as the gen-
eral public, began to plan for the
future. But p1og1ess during the early
years was slow.

There was no deﬁnite headquar-
ters; correspondence was sent to
wherever the president or secretary
lived. There were no employees;
little money was available; time was
at a premium. It was almost by a
miracle that the Association was able
to move forward at all during those
years. But progress they did though
only through the efforts of those
loyal men and women who contrib-
more of their time and
money than they could afford.

It was obvious if The American
Humane Association was to continue
to function and enlarge its SCOpe,
something would have to be done.

II ,, 111.1i ~ »‘ ,

I W

I

llllll

@—

Il
lullllllll lllll

I'llllllll lllllllﬁml l ”l Ft;

WI . “I

fill ill

llll
6’:
v' ,

I."
II | ,‘7‘1 1‘
film - w

___________

 

11w ﬁrst I’rcaulmt (f the Anwrican Humane .-lsuocz'u.tion.

ﬁr; . ‘
‘IllllllllllIIlIIII I III

I962

III

1; »
~§§§EE~ ‘4‘» :_—— .,: __ __. .1:
_ T i __ <\ :1. ~4_ A
..... \ :1
”3*" 1 " ' ‘—‘ ' . “v _\ '

f—e-Q: 2::—
‘ E1:
,—

ll 1.

Stopped by the intervention of the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

Page 23

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 24

Dr. William Olin Stillman

resident, The American Humane Association
1905-1924

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY.

l 962

 

 

 

 

 




 

The Guiding Hand

THE NAME OF William O. Stillman
will always be associated, in the
minds of humanitarians, with the
ﬁrst great national development of

the anti-cruelty cause in the United ‘

States.
When he ﬁrst became president
of The American Humane Associa-

tion he found the work weak, de-l
moralized and ineffective. When he:

assumed ofﬁce, the Association had
few members, very inadequate in-
come and small inﬂuence. It had no
regular ofﬁce, no paid employees and
did little more than hold annual
conventions.

As the years passed, under Dr.
Stillman’s management, all this
changed.

William Olin Stillman was born
September 9, 1856 in a small suburb
of Albany, New York, the only
child of the Rev. Stephen Lewis Still-
man and Lucretia Miller Stillman.
Rev. Stillman died when the boy was
12 and William and his mother
moved to Albany.

As a boy, he loved books. He de-
lighted in the study of religion and
history. It was during his youth that
he developed one of his greatest
attributes—that of making friends.

The spirit of tolerance which he
also developed during his youth had
been one of his marked traits and
enabled him to view great funda-
mental principles of ethics in their
broadest application to man and the
sub-human species.

In 1878, William O. Stillman re-
ceived the degrees of MD. and A.M.
from Union College and, though
the youngest member of his class,
was graduated with the highest
honors.

During the next ﬁve years he
worked only as a physician. He mar-
ried Frances M. Rice of Boston in
1880.

But seeing the many cruelties
committed by people upon animals,

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY.

he was slowly developing an intense
interest in humane work. He devoted
much time and energy to the re-
organization of the nearly-defunct
Mohawk and Hudson River Humane
Society in Albany.

As a result of his efforts, he became
an accepted authority on humane
work. In 1895 he was elected a vice
president of The American Humane
Association and in 1903, a member
of the AHA board of directors.

Dr. Albert Lefﬁngwell had been
chosen president of the Association
at the 1904 convention but when he
received an appointment as US.
Consul to Russia, he resigned his
AHA position. Dr. Stillman was
asked to ﬁll out the balance of the
term.

At the 1905 AHA convention, Dr.
Stillman was re-elected unanimously
—and was re-elected continuously
each year until his death.

When he assumed his AHA duties
he was appalled by the lack of
organization and" equipment avail-
able to him: there was no ofﬁce, no
furniture, no employees. The Asso-
ciation’s total receipts for the past
year, contributed by a very limited
number of people and societies, were
at a low ebb. Men and women who
should have been supporting AHA
held aloof and criticized the organi-
zation because it did not exhibit a
greater efﬁciency.

An executive was, indeed, needed
who could break down overconserva-
tism; could command the conﬁdence
of the groups of humanitarians who
represented different shades of opin-
ion; could work out a program that
would weld the sOcieties together
into one strong working body, for
common good. " '

The American Humane Associ-
ation needed someone who could
stimulate public interest by written
and spoken messages and who could
build up an endowment that would

insure continuity of effort and pro-
vide stability.

Fortunately, all these qualities
were abundantly exempliﬁed in Dr.
William O. Stillman.

Dr. Stillman saw a great useful-
ness for the Association. He had a
clear vision of the future. He was
ﬁred by a passionate concern for
the prevention of cruelty that drove
him to Herculean labors.

For a while he maintained his
extensive private medical practice,
but eventually had to give it up.
There was not time to throw himself
into the task of building AHA into
a powerful national federation of
individual humanitarians and hu-
mane societies if he could only
devote himself to that goal between
visits to patients and in the small
hours of the nights!

His ﬁrst step was to rent, with
money from his own pocket, a dark
room on the top floor of the Mohawk
and Hudson River Humane Society
building. Still with his own money,
he engaged a stenographer. And
then, as the volume of correspond-
ence swelled, he had to hire another.

This was Florence Maher who be-
gan her ﬁrst—and her last—job in
December, 1907. Miss Maher often
said she remained on her job be-
cause of her strong admiration for
Dr. Stillman and because the hu-
mane cause to which he was dedi-
cated had touched her own heart.

"‘Dr.’ Stillman made me feel almost

as though we were building a re-
ligion,” she once said.

Under Dr. Stillman’s devoted care
and management, The American Hu-
mane Association grew and pros-
pered. It became a national and a
world power in humane matters.

Through his efforts, The National
Humane Review, the ﬁrst ofﬁcial
publication of the Association, was
published. Hundreds of thousands of
leaﬂets which saw a ready circula—

l952 Page 25

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

tion throughout all parts of the coun-
try were printed. A ﬁeld director was
employed to visit the numerous anti-
cruelty societies afﬁliated with AHA
and to devote his efforts to the ex-
tension of humane education and
building up weak societies. A large
staff of paid ofﬁce employees was
hired. The Association’s ﬁnancial
position was strengthened. Emer-
gency Animal Relief (American Red
Star Animal Relief) was established.

In October, 1910 Dr. Stillman was
named president of the ﬁrst Inter-
national Humane Conference, con-
vening in Washington, D.C., with
representatives from more than 30
foreign countries.)

In August, 1914 Dr. Stillman at-
tended an international convention

Humanitarianism has claimed many
devoted and intense people. Here
are six giants in the ﬁeld of humane
work, pictured as they appeared in

 

Page 26

of humanitarians in London and was
elected president of the International
Federation of Societies for Animal
Protection with representatives
throughout the world.

As an acknowledgement of his
activities, Dr. Stillman was honored
by special recognition from many
home and foreign societies. Thelist
is a long one. * =

Dr. William Olin Stillman passed
away on March 15, 1924. He had
been a gentle, kindly man. He had
sought by persuasion and gentle ex-
ample to build bulWarks of kindness
against cruelty. .

But he was no weakling. He“was
a tower of strength. When ﬁght be-
came necessary, he was the valiant
leader. He knew no limits to the ﬁeld

1913 at the AHA convention in
Rochester, N.Y. From left: Matthew
J. McCurrie, for many years secre-
tary of the San Francisco SPCA
and an AHA director; Hon. Robert
J. Wilkin, an AHA director and judge
of the juvenile Court of Brooklyn,
also identiﬁed with the Brooklyn
SPCC; Nathaniel J. Walker, first
with the Mohawk and Hudson River

THE NATIONAL HUMANE R‘EVI‘EW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY,

 

of protection. With one arm he
shielded the children and with the
other, he encompassed every living
creature.

Humanitarians everywhere were

, deeply sorrowed when they learned

of his death.
' W. K. Horton who acceded to the

‘ AHA presidency following Dr. Still-

man’s death delivered a tearful me-
morial address to delegates attending
the annual AHA convention in 1924.

“We are all here as mourners be-
cause of the fact that we shall see
the face of our great leader no more
. . . Well may we say of our de-
parted leader: ‘His life was gentle
and the elements- so mix’d in him,
that Nature might stand up and say
to all the world, This was a man.’ ”

.Humane‘ Society, then AHA secre-

tary for many years and finally AHA
general manager; Dr. William O.
Stillman, , AHA president; H. Clay
Preston, AHA assistant secretary and
afﬁliated with the Connecticut Hu-
gmane Society; George A. H. Scott,
secretary and counsel for the Illinois
Humane Society and long time AHA
director. All are now deceased.

I962

 

 




 

IT WAS AN eighteenth century Eng-
lish poet, Edward Young, who
wrote: “It is greatly wise to live with
our past hours.”

With this thought in mind—and
on this special occasion when The

American Humane Association is‘

commemorating the 50th anniversary
of the publication of The National
Humane Review—we focus the spot-
light of our attention on past events
and relive, in reflection and observa-
tion, those early days that gave birth
to this magazine which has served
as the voice of the national humane
movement for the last half century.

It was my privilege to be a witness

to those events which led to the pub-\.
lication of the ﬁrst issue of The Na-g.
tional Humane Review and it is a =

pleasure to share these recollections
and thoughts with the readers of
this commemorative issue.

 

Florence Maher joined the AHA staﬂ in 1902.
he served as Dr. Stillman’s secretary until his
death and, later, as AHA ofﬁce manager until her
retirement in 1952. The photo: of Miss Maher,
“We, were taken in 1938, 19.52 and 1961.

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY, I962

in the

   

words of

FlOrence Maher

Although The American Humane
Association was organized in 1877,
it never had any ofﬁcially established
headquarter’s office until Dr. Wil-
liam O. Stillman was elected presi-

. dent in 1905. It was then that ofﬁce

space was rented in a building owned
and occupied by the Mohawk and
Hudson River Humane Society in
Albany, NY. The Association paid
$12 a month for that ofﬁce space and
remained there f0r many years.
At that time, The American Hu-
mane Association had no paid em-
ployees. Its membership consisted of
a 1 limited number of individuals

interested in its work and a few"
local humane

societies scattered
throughout the country. The ﬁnan-

C

cial resources were meager and
greatly restricted? this conﬁned the
activities of the As'SOciation primarily
to correspondence, printing and dis-
tributing humane tracts and holding
an annual convention.
Suchwcircumscribed activities,
however, did not continue for long
after Dr. Stillman became president.
Possessed of the qualiﬁcations of
leadership, he took, over his ofﬁcial
responsibilities with sincere purpose
and determination. He devoted his
time, energy and talent, day and
night, to developing the work of

the national organization, enlarging

its scope; of activities, increasing its
membership. And through personal
contact and a nationwide corre-

Page 27

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

spondence, he enlisted the interest
and support of men and women who
believed in the humane crusade.

Under Dr. Stillman’s leadership
and through the inﬂuence and en-
couragement of The American Hu-
man Association, many new humane
societies were organized throughout
the country—and those which had
become dormant, were reactivated
and began to function once again.

And so it was, during the ﬁrst few
years of his presidency that the work
of the Association grew and pros-
pered. A permanent headquarters
was established; membership was
tremendously enlarged; its ﬁnances
were substantially increased. The
American Humane Association was
fast becoming a national and world
power in humane matters.

Valuable as were such contacts
made through correspondence and
at yearly conventions, Dr. Stillman
realized the need of a magazine
which would serve as the mouth-
piece of the humane movement in
this country—a magazine which
would publicize the work being done
by the Association and its allied soci-
eties in the ﬁeld of humane endeavor
not only in this country but also
abroad.

Such a publication would repre-
sent the voice of the humane move-
ment and through its pages the mes-
sage of kindness, mercy and justice
would be spread to all parts of the
world.

This was one of the goals which
Dr. Stillman hoped to achieve. It
was a dream to be realized.

Today we have learned not to
scoff at dreamers. All the advance

 

Page 28 THE

NATIONAL HUMANE

of the world has come of man’s
dreams. The invisible is forever the
parent and builder of the visible
and it was with hope and conﬁ-
dence that Dr. Stillman—and those
who worked with him day by day——
envisioned The American Humane
Association not as it was at that
time, but as it might be.

By 1912, the need for a monthly
magazine had become a necessity
and in January of 1913, the ﬁrst issue
of The National Humane Review
was published and placed in circu-
lation.

The dream had become a reality.
One has only to read some of those
early issues to capture the spirit of
faith, sincerity and devotion which
inspired those identiﬁed with the
work of The American Humane As—
sociation and their dedication to
the precepts of the Golden Rule as
the aim and purpose of the humane
movement.

Through its pages, The National
Humane Review has proclaimed the
message of humanity and goodwill
for ﬁfty consecutive years and today
the magazine is circulating in prac-
tically every civilized country in the
world. It has been a powerful and
effective weapon in securing the
enactment of both state and federal
legislation for the protection of
children and animals from all forms
of vicious and ﬂagrant abuses.

Much has been accomplished dur-
ing the last half century, but we
realize that The National Humane
Review must continue to lift its voice
in opposition to those many forms
of cruelty which still exist. It can
never relax its efforts until it has

 

done its best to eliminate or lessen
them.

The recollection of those early
days when the Review was ﬁrst pub-
lished brings back many nostalgic
memories.

It was ﬁrst printed in Albany by
a local printer and all mailings were
made directly from the headquarters
of The American Humane Associa—
tion.

As copies came off the press, they
were packaged and delivered to the
ofﬁce of the Association.

A large machine, which cut and
addressed wrappers simultaneously,
had been installed in a corner of
the office. It was facetiously referred
to as the “Nine-Ninety-Nine” after
a famed locomotive because of its
speed and also because of the terriﬁc
noise it made while in operation.

A long, improvised table was set
up in the center of the ofﬁce. The few
employees of the Association, each
with pastepot and brush in hand,
assembled around the table on which
were placed piles of the magazine
and piles of addressed wrappers.

When the wrappers were pasted to
the magazines, the magazines were
sorted according to states, tied into
bundles, bagged and carted to the
postofﬁce by the janitor of the build-
ing. Needless to say, it required a
number of days to complete each
month’s mailing.

That was the beginning. The cir—
culation of the magazine, however,
increased very rapidly and later
other arrangements for its publica-
tion and mailing were put into effect.

It was Father Dominque Pire who
said in his address in Oslo, after he

AHA convention in 1946 was ﬁrst to take place following World War II.

REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY. I962

 




 

had received the Nobel Peace Prize
in December 1958: “Men build too
many walls and not enough bridges.”

It is comforting to realize that
The National Humane Review for
ﬁve decades has served as a bridge
between the continents. Throughout
the years, it has cooperated with so-
cieties in many foreign lands, pub-
licizing their activities and their
need for funds and equipment to
carry on their work. Humanitarians
in this country have responded most
generously to such appeals and we
have been most happy to continue
this service as a bridge between the
continents.

The interest of The American
Humane Association has always
been worldwide in its concepts. It
was in 1910 that the ﬁrst Interna-
tional Humane Conference (of
which Dr. Stillman was president)
was held in Washington, DC. Rep-
resentatives from over 80 foreign
nations were present.

Again, in 1923, the second Inter-
national Humane Conference con-
vened in New York City with dele-
gates in attendance from all parts
of the world.

And now, only recently, we learn
of the organization of a new society
—the International Society for the
Protection of Animals (ISPA) which
was ofﬁcially incorporated by The
American Humane Association and
the Royal SPCA of London, England
in 1959.

This bridge of continued, co-
operative service, maintained by
The American Humane Association
and The National Humane Review,
has encouraged, strengthened and
promoted international efforts for
the better care and protection of
both children and animals through-
out the world.

During the half century that has
passed since the ﬁrst issue of the
Review was published, the humane
movement has witnessed many
changes. We live in a changing
world. To cling to the past is to go
backward. There is no such thing
as standing still.

The American Humane Associa-
tion and humane organizations
throughout the country have con-
tributed greatly to the growth of
humanitarianism in this country and
abroad. The achievements have been
outstanding and far greater than one

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW~JANUARY~FEBRUARY,

 

\V. K. Horton became AHA presi-
dent upon Dr. Stillman’s death in
1924.

would have dared to predict ﬁfty
years ago.

But our greatest sphere of service
has been and must continue to be
in the realm of moral and spiritual
values which permeate the fabric
of life itself and transform our habits
of thought and conduct.

Our major yardstick is humane
education which is the keystone of
humanity. When the spirit of kind-
ness and compassion have been ab-
sorbed into the hearts of scholars
and laymen everywhere and trans-
lated into creative response, the
humane cause will have made its
most noteworthy and enduring con-
tribution to world civilization.

Dr. Samuel Belkin, president of
Yeshiva University and a distin-
guished scholar and author recently
wrote:
cerned with man’s spiritual and
moral purpose, for this alone gives
meaning to knowledge. Only when
human knowledge is integrated with
a high, moral purpose and spiritual
ideal, can knowledge become a bless-
ing to society.”

Toward that end and throughout
the years, The American Humane
Association has consistently devoted
its efforts to the promotion and ex-
tension of humane education. It is
gratifying to know that today .hun-
dreds of schools throughout the
country are devoting time and atten-
tion to this subject. Children are now
being taught kindness to animals,
embracing the principles of human-
ity, justice and goodwill which, when

“Education must be con-

translated into meaningful existence,
will usher in a new era of love and
compassion for all of God’s creatures.

it is, therefore, with a deep sense
of appreciation that we pay tribute
to the teachers in our schools who
are participating in the development
and promotion of humane education
as a vital part of the moral and
spiritual education of our American
youth.

On the occasion of this 50th anni-
versary number of The National H u-
mane Review, we hold in everlasting
remembrance and pay tribute to
those great pioneers of the humane
crusade in this country. Their mag-
netic personalities, conscientious de—
votion and zealous efforts have in-
spired their successors to meet the
challenge of the ensuing years and
the promise of future accomplish-
ments. The full measure of their
ability and devotion is borne out by
the record of their achievements
which constitutes a permanent me-
morial, established in the chronicles
of humane history.

We also owe a debt of gratitude
to those who are giving our work
moral and ﬁnancial support and to
those lone, individual workers whose
loyal interest in the humane cause
has been a source of inspiration and
strength throughout the years. They
are all a part of the collective effort
which has contributed to the growth
of humanitarianism during the past
ﬁfty years. .

It was Charles Darwin who stated:
“The superlative achievement of
great men is rooted in the faithful-
ness of the unknown and the ob-
scure. Marconi claimed that his
epoch—making discoveries would
have been impossible but for the
work of a humble and unknown
scientist named Tay. Think of what
David Livingstone owed to the
handful of Africans who were his
companions on expedition after ex-
pedition. What would Paul have
accomplished without Silas and
Timothy?”

Finally, congratulations and thanks
are due to The American Humane
Association and its administrative
ofﬁcers for the splendid service
which they are giving to the humane
cause in this country and abroad and
for this commemorative issue of The
National Humane Review which rep-
resents an outstanding contribution
to the history of the humane move
ment in this country. ‘

I962 Page 29

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    
    
 

John G. Shortall was founder of The
American Humane Association in 1877
and later served as its president.

    
  

AHA President Stillman had a natural
affection for animals. This snapshot
was taken at his country home in 1906.

 

6 o f

Recognize anyone]? These delegates at-
tended 1916 AHA convention in Cincinnati.

 

 

 

A v w W

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 30 THE NATIONAL ’HUMANE -REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY, I962

 




 

The late William T. Phillips left in 1956 after 50 years of humane
service received one of greatest honors AHA can bestow—he was
named Humanitarian of the Year. Dean Clanton is at right.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Nathaniel J. Walker, a pioneer
"humanitarian, Was AHA secretary
from 1908 until his death in 1936.

 

 

 

 

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY, I962 page 3.

 

 




 

 

 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
     
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 

 

  
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
  
  
   
   
  
 
   
 

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

r. Coleman

and

Sydney H.

   
   

 

Coleman, ﬁrst acting editor of the

Review and AHA president from 1927 to 1946.

By MRS. SYDNEY H. COLEMAN
As told to her son, JAMES R. COLEMAN

ACLOOMIEB, LESS attractive build-
ing could scarcely have been
found. It was infested with vermin
and the grime of the ages. It had
been used as a school, a jail, a hos-
pital—and ﬁnally as headquarters of
The American Humane Association.

This was the birthplace of The
National Humane Review.

But as in the case of so many
of the animals and children who
have been helped through the
articles and pleas for assistance in
the Review, the early surroundings
were only a prelude to its ultimate
place in the humane world and in
the publishing world.

Sydney H. Coleman was chosen by
Dr. William O. Stillman, then AHA
president, to assist him in'creating a
new magazine that would represent
the Association. Coleman became the
magazine’s first acting editor.

In speaking of his selection as the
person to edit the new 1 magazine,
Coleman commented: f

“The American Humane Associa-
tion couldn’t have found anyone who
knew less about starting a magazine.
So I was given the chance to help
give birth to The National Humane
Review!”

Page 32

In January 1913, the ﬁrst issue of
the Review: appeared. Despite Cole-
man’s jocular manner of referring to
it, never was he more serious about
anything. He was determined that
the Review would live to serve a
worthy purpose among those inter-
ested in the anticruelty movement.

Under Coleman’s guidance the
magazine quickly became a medium
of exchange and a market of in—
formation for those who were just
starting out in the ﬁeld, those who
were interested “just because” and
those who wanted to guide the hu-
mane movement to the point where
it could become a force in the United
States.

It served as a focal point for the
quick review and publication of new
and tried ideas in humane educa-
tion. The American Red Star Animal
Relief (today known as Emergency
Animal Relief) movement found
early acceptance through the pages
of the Review. The Humane Trap
Contest, sponsored by the Associa-
tion, was also given much publicity
in the early issues of the Review.

Before joining the staff of The
American Humane Association, Cole-
man had served as assistant to the

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY,

president of the Erie County SPCA
in Buffalo. When he left Buffalo for
Albany, where the Association then
had headquarters, he kept in touch
with many of his friends from Buf—
falo.

In 1920, the Buffalo Chamber of
Commerce offered him a position as
the manager of its Safety Bureau.

Coleman was extremely reluctant
to take up the job for, by that
time, he was deeply dedicated to
animals and their welfare. He knew
that the Review had a deﬁnite place
in their protection, but he felt that
the remuneration on the new job was
such that he could not afford to re-
fuse.

Upon learning of Coleman’s de-
cision to leave the Review, numerous
humanitarians wrote to Dr. Stillman
expressing their sorrow at his leaving.
One such letter seemed to sum up
what all felt about Coleman’s resig—
nation:

“The saddest letter I have received
in some time is the one saying Mr.
Coleman is about to leave you. . . .
I had no intimation of such, thinking
that he would be with the Review
the balance of his life and help

further the already ﬁne paper it is. I
wish it were possible to retain him,
even if the headquarters for the
Review have to be moved to Buffalo.
It was not necessary for me to make
a study of Mr. Coleman, to knoW

I962

 




 

 

 

   

that he was not a mechanical humane
worker and that he was not a union
humane worker, the kind that ‘knock
off’ when the bell or gong strikes,
that his heart is in the work. I do
wish you could induce him to stay,
and while you may ﬁnd another, I
doubt if you will ﬁnd his equal or
superior. So I say in all seriousness,
it were best the headquarters were
moved to Buffalo if by doing so you
could retain him.”

Coleman’s interest in the humane
ﬁeld did not lag despite his new
position. He kept up a correspond—
ence with Dr. Stillman and continued
to write and do layouts for the maga—
zine. (It was during this time that
Coleman wrote his book, ‘Humane
Society Leaders in America”, pub-
lished by The American Humane
Association in 1924.)

Dr. Stillman and the Association
did not give up efforts to get Cole-
man back into humane work. In
May of 1924, just after Dr. Stillman’s
death, the board of directors by
unanimous vote asked Coleman to
return to AHA as general manager.

Coleman accepted, and although
he did not go onto the payroll until
July, he immediately went to Albany
to arrange the June issue of The
National Humane Review, then in
preparation.

And so, Sydney H. Coleman again
took up the reins of the Review. He
was happy to be back.

Coleman was a conservative by
nature. He was insistent that what
was to be done in the humane ﬁeld
should not be with splashy words or
ﬂashy methods. Rather, it should be
built on steady progress founded on
facts and honest approach in its re-

HE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW came into existence January
1913. Inasmuch as the magazine was extension work of the

  

ﬁrst order, the ﬁeld secretary of the Association was made its assist-
ant editor and business manager. During the past months, therefore,
your ﬁeld secretary has given practically all his time to publishing

the Review.

“In the history of every great organization similar in structure
to our own, there is precedent for the establishment of a national
publication. There is certainly no more legitimate or practical way
of spreading the gospel of the humane doctrine through a country
as large as ours than through the medium of an attractive and

newsy publication.

“In many ways The National Humane Review occupies its own
distinct ﬁeld. It has reached out and taken a world look at humane
work and reﬂects its ﬁndings in reports from societies everywhere
. . . It can be of practical beneﬁt to every anticruelty society and

humanitarian in the land.

“The Review makes you an intelligent humanitarian. It brings
you in constant touch with the best thought of the day along humane
lines. It makes you acquainted with the men and women who are
accomplishing great things for suffering humanity. Such knowledge
and such contact makes you better ﬁtted to do your own particular

task.”

-Report of the AHA ﬁeld secretary, Sydney H.°
Coleman, to delegates attending the 37th annual
meeting of The American Humane Association,
Rochester, N.Y., October 18-16, 1913.

JHIlllHlliiHllllllHIIHHIIIHIIHIHIH|||lililllllllllllli!!!iiiliiiiiifllilll‘.llllllllllIlllllllIlHHllHillllllilIllIlllllillllllillHHIHHEEHHIHHIIHllllllllllllllllillllllIllilllliilllllillliiiiilllllllllllllililll!lllllllll||Il||l|lll|lllillllllllllllllllilllllllllllillilillililHIE|HIIIHIIHHIIIIHIIllillilllllllllllI!IIIllIllIllililllllllilllliilllHill

ports of activities. The National
Humane Review, much to its credit,
continues with this philosophy.

Mrs. Coleman remembers well the
many hours the family waited for
Coleman to come home after putting
the ﬁnal touches on the Review be-
fore it went to press. Many of the
editorials were written after business
hours in front of the ﬁre or in his
den. His son and daughter remem-
ber, too, that when the den door was
closed, it was work time for Dad and
he was not to be disturbed.

The Sydney H. Coleman Animalport at New York’s International Airport
honors Coleman who served as ASPCA executive vice president from 1930

until his death 25 years later.

   

The format of the Review changed
but little for several years. The maga-
zine’s main function was that of
relating the AHA with the various
local societies. Gradually, the maga-
zine found its way into many homes
and libraries and it was then that a
more artful approach crept into the
layout.

The Review, as it now appears,
has not changed much from the
original concept, but has kept up
with the times in its format.

Sydney Coleman’s personal
thoughts on what he felt the success
of the Review accomplished were
rarely voiced at home, for he did
not believe that the “ofﬁce and
home” mixed.

However, his actions proclaimed
his interest, for long after he had
relinquished the position of acting
editor, his interest in the Review was
evident in his suggestions and
articles. It was his responsibility in
its inception and his pride as it grew
to a nationally-accepted magazine
for humane workers throughout the
country, and even the world.

:17: {t

  

ﬂ

Editor’s note: The following is a
resolution passed by the board of
directors of The American Humane

Page 33

   
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  

 
 
   
   
  
 
   
    
   
   
  
 
 
 
    
  
    
  
    
     
       
   
     
    
   
      
 
 
 
    
   

  

 

 
 




   
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AssociatiOn, relative to the death of

Sydney H. Coleman.

“On- March' 23, 1955 Sydney H.
Coleman died. He had been one of
the truly great leaders of humane
work in our time.

“Throughout forty-one of his 'sixty‘
nine years of life, he dedicated, him-
self to improving the conditions; of
his fellow man and leading the ﬁght
for humane treatment. for children
and animals.

“Coleman began his work in the
humane ﬁeld at Buffalo, N.'-Y. in
1910 and in 1913, at the requeSt of
the late Dr. William O. Stillman, he
came to The American Humane As-
sociation to start The National Hu-
mane Review. .

“In 1924, Coleman became "the
general manager of The American
Humane Association upon the death
of Dr. Stillman and was elected its
president in 1927, serving continually

to edit the Association’s magazine.

for 18 years during which tenure of
office, The American Humane Asso-
ciation had its greatest period of
growth.

“Through his tireless efforts and
rigid economies, he increased the
endowment funds from less than
one-half million dollars to more than
two million dollars. His administra-
tion of the affairs of the Association
was not only provident in its ﬁnancial
aspects, but he extended influence
of the Association throughout the
country and multiplied its usefulness
by assisting through this work in the
establishment of many local units for
the promotion and growth of humane
principles.”

Page 34

 

 

Coleman joined AHA staff in 1913‘

i
  i
i
i
i
g
i

 

Many Directions

I With the death of its great leader, Dr. William O. Stillman,
The American Humane Association suddenly found itself
adrift. Those who had served the humane cause for many years
seemed strangely unsure of how the Association should con-

tinue.

There was little question in the minds of anyone who had
followed the work of the Association that it had been a great
inﬂuence for good and that it had served the anticruelty cause
throughout the United States and America with integrity and
devotion.

Dr. Stillman had taken the reins of the Association when
it represented not much more than a name. He molded it
during the many years of his presidency into an organization
of strong influence.

But without Dr. Stillman, the strength and purpose of the
Association seemed, for the moment, sapped. What was to be
the future of The American Humane Association, asked its
supporters. Should it attempt to find someone to replace the
irreplaceable? Or should it open new horizons in the ﬁeld of
humane endeavor?

Following are the words of the president of The American
Humane Association, W. K. Horton, to delegates attending the
1924 annual AHA convention.

“The American Humane Association, with full recognition
of the danger of failure, is going to strike out and do things
in a different way from what they have been done in the past.
If it spells failure, then it spells failure for individuals and not
for The American Humane Association for IT will live in spite
of individual failures on the part of those in charge.

“What is the future of The American Humane Association?
Who can tell?

“If it is anything, it must be greater leadership; greater
ability to help local societies,- greater power in promoting and
developing national legislation,- and a greater force for molding
the thought of the American people toward kindness and fus-
tice, through the literature which it produces.”

With these words, the destiny of The American Humane
Association was shaped. Because no single person could ever
again exemplify the national Association, no single person
would ever try. The American Humane Association would
move forward, toward the universal goal of compassion for all
living things, with the help of many individuals.

The American Humane Association today adheres to the
principles set out by its founders. But in order to achieve the
goals of those devoted humanitarians, it has modernized its
methods to meet the needs of a world full of change.

The Association has done many things since its founding-
Many things remain yet to be done. And each year shows new
achievements as The American Humane Association reaches
out to help the suffering and abused in many directions.

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY. I962

 

 

 

TF

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   

 




 

BUSINESS REPLY MAIL

NO POSTAGE STAMP NECESSARY IF MAILED IN UNITED STATES

 

postage will be paid by

THE AMERICAN HUMANE ASSOCIATION
P.O. Box I266

Denver I. Colorado

 

 

 

F I R ST 0 LAS s
PERMIT NUMBER
2512
DENVER, COLORADO

 

 

IIIIIIIIIIIII

 

 

 

The

 

" umane Assocmtzon

1961-~84th Year

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 36

 

UMANENESS IS A THOROUGHLY practical enter—

prise on one hand and touchingly sentimental on the

other. It is kindness, benevolence and compassion and,

at the same time, a business which is essential to the
community’s well—being.

Your local Humane Society, SPCA, Anti—Cruelty Society—by what-
ever name it may be called—performs essential tasks, provides valu-
able services. The popular connotation of cats and dogs and humane
societies is at once both right and wrong. The inevitable news-feature
photograph of a humane agent high atop a power pole rescuing a
stranded cat is more the exception than the rule.

To be sure, humane societies do work closely to aid and protect the
increasing canine and feline population and humane agents do risk
life and limb to rescue animals from all manner of highly improbable
and precarious places—but to picture these functions as the total
humane movement is about the same as labeling the school as a place
where children go to learn history and nothing else.

The nation’s humane societies—some 500 strong and affiliated under
the banner of The American Humane Association—have programs
relating to children, education, livestock and wildlife as well as the
animal control work so vitally necessary in every community. AHA
provides consultative services to motion picture and television pro-
ducers and supervises the ﬁlming of animal action. The Association
provides assistance in the formation of new humane societies and
municipal animal control departments. It works closely with estab—
lished agencies to encourage better and more efﬁcient programs.
AHA’s Children’s Division is dedicated to the prevention of neglect,
abuse and exploitation of children.

Your local humane organization is autonomous; its programs are
geared to the needs of your community. But when a problem is re-
gional or national in scope, then the national Association acts in behalf
of its humane—minded supporters.

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY. I962

 

 

 

 




 

 

r1111}: AMERICAN HUMANE Associa-
tion and the humane movement are
on the threshold of another out-
standing year of progress.

This is not merely a hopeful com-
ment—it is a logical statement based
on progress made during the past
year—and the 50 past years—and the
85 past years!

If we were to show our combined
activity in every area of humane
endeavor on a chart-graph, with a
rising line indicating our progress,
we would see that we have come a
long way up over the past years.

But, certainly, the line has not
reached the top of the graph. That
is why we must work, to keep the
line moving up—always increasing
the distance from the bottom, mov-
ing closer to the top.

Our progress up the chart would
be greatly accelerated, of course, if
we knew the future. If we were
aware of what was ahead, our daily
work would be much easier. But
since we have no way of knowing
this, we can only anticipate any sud-
den demands for information and

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY. I962

.....

aid by knowing what has happened
in the past.

One example of sudden demand
—and anticipation—was the recent
spurt of requests for information
about the care of pets during times
of disaster. The reason for this sud-
den nationwide concern is obvious
in the light of increased international
tensions.

And in this case, the AHA staff
had done a remarkable job in antici-
pating and preparing for the de-
mand.

Correlating this type of material
takes time-consuming research and
still more time for actual prepara-
tion into ﬁnal printed form. Fortu-
nately, we anticipated far enough in
advance so that, when the ﬁrst re-

uest was received, we already had
available a preprint of the article
“When Disaster Strikes” which ap-
peared in the September-October
issue of The National Humane Re-
view. Reprints were made immedi-
ately, and the material was also
scheduled for inclusion in our popu-
lar “Care of . . .” pamphlet series.

We might add that there was quite

AHA Executive Director’s

Annual

‘ Report

 

By Rutherford T. Phillips

 
  
   
 

a ﬂurry of spontaneous requests for
this material, but with the publica—
tion of the Review article, we began
to receive great quantities of cor-
respondence on this subject from

individuals, societies and various
public and private agencies.

Another example of anticipating
demands for AHA material aids was
the preparation of “Every Commu-
nity Needs An Animal Shelter.”
We had been and are still receiving
requests from individuals who need
material for distribution to various
clubs and gatherings where humane
work serves as the theme of the
meeting. Similar requests also came
from groups of individuals who
wanted to establish a new humane
society. And there were other re-
quests from established groups seek-
ing local interest and support.

Actual preparation of the leaﬂet
was difﬁcult because it was not to
be a humane publication in the true
sense of the word. We had to ap—
proach this from the viewpoint of
an outsider looking in.

The leaflet would be of little value
if it were designed to attract people

Page 37

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

who were ah'eady supporters of hu-
mane work. The need here was for
something which circumvented the
humane cause per se- and which
would appeal to business-like logic.

Current demand for this leaﬂet
indicates that we have a landslide
on our hands and that “Every Com-
munity Needs an Animal Shelter”
is going to receive extensive distribu-
tion.

ELPING Us in our efforts to meet

demands for needed material
aids is not our ability to see the
future but our experience gained
through the past. We know demands
for materials and assistance will in-
crease next year because they have
increased every year before.

Last year we printed close to 11/2
million publications. The “Care of
. ” series is just now nearing a
total distribution ﬁgure of 6 million.
Last year alone we ﬁlled orders for
more than 400,000 copies of various
leaflets in this series.

There were nearly 70,000 printed
pieces prepared for Be Kind to Ani-
mals Week and nearly 70,000 copies
of general aids for humane organiza—
tions.

Humane slaughter publications
totaled 20,000 and more than 1/2 mil-
lion material aids were shipped on
orders received from 2,226 humane
organizations, municipalities, schools
and others. Mailings and correspond-
ence jumped this last year from 825,-
000 to 630,000—and this is up 225
percent over two years ago.

On the publicity front, our circu-
lation in magazines and newspapers
climbed to almost 250 million, an
increase of 34 percent over last year.

Nearly 700 radio and television
stations have been using our mate-
rial—~mariy of them in cooperative
programs with AHA afﬁliated or-
ganizations. Many well-known stars
have assisted us with this work.

This is humane education—and
we are approaching an estimated
50,000 broadcasts. In terms of the
amount of money it would cost a
commercial enterprise to buy this
coverage in the form of advertising,
the total is amazing. For broadcast-
ing: a conservative estimate of $100,-
000. For printed publicity, perhaps
twice that. In other words, this is
publicity with an actual market
value in excess of the entire AHA
operating budget for the year.

Now, what exactly is this public-

Page 38

ity that we have been getting?

it is primarily humane education.
It beneﬁts the Association,’and of
equal importance, it beneﬁts your
local organization. It helps to
strengthen and reinforce your own
publicity programs while providing
valuable assistance in the vital
work of. molding humane attitudes
throughout the land. And, always,
we stress the need for people to
know about and support their local
animal shelters.

In a way, all this reminds me of
the old farmer who lived way out
in the country. A visitor, noticing a
piano in the corner, asked if anyone
played it. The farmer shook his head
and said: “Nope, but there’s a heap
of ﬁne music in there if you could
just get it out.”

This is typical of humane work.
There’s a lot of support for what we
are doing—if we can just get it out.
Our job is to ﬁgure out ways and
means to get it out.

Our immediate objective is to
work in unity to accomplish those
goals which none of us could reach
alone. And, here, we have an un-
broken chain wherein each humane
organization gains new strength and
vigor as the national Association is
strengthened.

Out on the West Coast this past
year, your AHA Hollywood repre-
sentatives who are there in your be-
half when animals appear before
motion picture and television cam-
eras, supervised 15,499 animals ap-
pearing in 641 productions. Nearly
one-third of these ﬁlms contained
extensive animal action which re-
quired the Hollywood staff to study
the scripts long before ﬁlming got
underway and to provide sugges-
tions and recommendations to the
producers.

Supervision, through international
cooperation, extended to the West
Indies and Tanganyika. Also, during
the year, the Hollywood staff held
61 conferences on problem ﬁlms, for
publicity and for radio interviews,
and made several speaking appear—
ances before club groups.

AHA ﬁeld consultants last year
visited and conferred with many or-
ganizations throughout the nation
—— numerically, this involved more
than 50 percent of all active organi-
zations and included several groups
in various stages of establishing new
societies.

Field consultants appeared, and

 

testiﬁed, before six state legislatures
which were considering humane
slaughter bills. They supervised nine
major rodeos, inspected packing
plants, conducted eight regional con-
ferences and participated in various
state federation meetings. They in-
spected and visited municipal ani-
mal shelters, conducted a major
nation-wide survey of animal han-
dling and control facilities and Pal“-
ticipated in Livestock Conservation
meetings and activities. They han-
dled an additional 3,003 contacts
which included inquiries received
through the mail and by telephone.

There are many other activities
and milestones of progress which
deserve some mention. You are fa-
mi'liar with most of the details.

We have added six more states to
the list of those with humane slaugh-
ter legislation on the books. We have
continued to award the “Seal of Ap-
proval” for humane slaughtering and
there has been a surprising increase
in demand by the packers for this
recognition.

IT WAS JUST a little over a year ago
that the humane movement intro-
duced the largest ﬁeld service in
the world through regional Service
Councils. A great deal has been ac-
complished through this new con-
cept: assistance to organizations just
getting started; help with local and
regional problems; assistance in
planning new construction; a new
state federation. We even serviced
the Washington State Police Chiefs
when they indicated their concern
and interest with humane animal
control programs.

We fought the “sticks and stones”
rabbit hunt down in North Carolina
and are still working, through legal
channels, to gain a permanent in-
junction against this medieval prac-
tice.

Numerous acts of bravery, by both
man and animal, were recognized
with awards named in honor of the
late Dr. William O. Stillman.

We went in as amicus curiae when
some veterinarians sought an injunc—
tion against a mid-western humane
organization. We helped a society in
the Far East to obtain high altitude
equipment.

In the ﬁeld of humane education,
school children from 40 states and
two foreign countries entered 2,250
posters in our annual poster contest.

We met with the national Legion

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY. I962

 

 

#Ah—IA




 

of Decency and received their sup-
port of our stand that ﬁlms which
depict cruelty can have a resultant
brutalizing effect on the public.

We were honored when the Los
Angeles City Council presented us
with a special citation in connection
with the 11th annual PATSY Awards.
More than 1,500 underprivileged
.children were our guests for that
event

Our National Committee on Ani-
mal Transportation continued to
work toward development of inter-
national standards.

The 47th annual Be Kind to Ani-
mals Week stood out as one of the
most successful in recent years.

The Children’s Division marked
another year of progress, too. We

ublished four new technical man-
uals, participated in numerous meet-
ings in all parts of the country and
provided consultation services to hu-
mane societies, to juvenile courts and
to other agencies.

And so it goes. I could go on with
more activities which are familiar to
you—such as NIP, the Nationwide
Inspection Program, now going into
its third year of action and working
out extremely well in preventing
cruelty and abuse to animals in
traveling shows.

Each year we look back, brieﬂy,
at what has been accomplished over
the past year. And then we look
forward to new challenges.

As has been true this past year
—and all past years—we will continue
to break previous records; to extend
our span of inﬂuence; to increase our
service and activity; to achieve more
kindness, more compassion, more
understanding throughout the na-
tion and the world.

We will continue our work to
prevent cruelty and abuse to rodeo
animals, to campaign for state hu-
mane slaughter legislation, to carry
out humane education programs and
to encourage the creation of new
humane organizations in communi-
ties everywhere.

Wherever there is cruelty, each
of you in your own societies and we
of The American Humane Associa-
tion will be concerned—and we will
take action.

Together—with the guidance of
the Almighty—we will climb higher
and higher up the chart of achieve-
mentl

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY~FEBRUARY, I962

EXTENDING A HELPING HAND BEYOND OUR OWN LIFETIME . . .

By creating a lasting monument through a bequest in our last will.

Many persons who in their lifetime have supported

, the programs and activities of The American Humane Association

have continued this support beyond their span of life by naming

The American Humane Association as beneﬁciary in their last will
and testament. '

Many others, when seeking a worthy cause to include as
beneﬁciary in their will, have chosen The American Humane
Association as appropriate because of its long record since 1877
‘ 'thespokesman for all God’s creatures and protector of the

less throughout the nation.
_. j_ bequest in your last will and testament will fully carry out
ur intent- to support the good works and program of
"""g-American Humane Association. Such a bequest? may consist .
3:;af designated amount of money, a gift of securities, a gift
eafl? eState or a combination of all three. g ,
uggested testamentary clause which can be used to
lute ret peorrectly your full wishes and intent is as follows: E
MENTARY "GI-FT. OR BEQUEST

I_;give,deViseand bequeath to The American Humane,» Assocra- :1

tion, forbitsﬂ‘useinthe furtherance of its program andactivities, .

(thesurn of)1,(cer;tain real and personal property) (certain » .
stocks,bondsiéjandif:‘seCurities) more speciﬁcally described as ‘fol- . .
lows?”(hereénameithe amount of money and/ or list and, describe
' " . nd/Orlireal estate)”

. g .. TATE AFTER GIFTS TO RELATIVES OR FRIENDS
f , andf'bequeath to The American Humane
Association, ggs’i “Se in the furtherance of its program and
.-'aCtivit_ies, all ‘the‘restvand residue of my estate, real and personal.”

. Retained—income and life insurance gifts frequently afford

important present, and future tax savings to the donor:

GIFTS OF LIFE INSURANCE OR ANNUITY POLICIES

A simple method fer continuing support of the programs and
activities of The American Humane Association is to name the
Association as beneﬁciary of life insurance. This is direct and
practical without regard to one’s ability to make a testamentary
gift. It can be done simply by giving proper notiﬁcation to the

insurance company.

RETAINED-INCOME GIFT

A number of friends of The American Humane Association

have set aside or given some portion of their estates while
they are still living, but in such a manner that they continue to
receive the net income from the gift, and with the provision

that the Association would receive the principal on their death.
This can be done with a trust agreement (through a bank) or

by agreement directly with The American Humane Association.

The American Humane Association suggests that because of the
complexity of laws affecting estates and also to insure wishes

being accurately carried out, persons contemplating a gift or a
bequest consult an attorney. AHA will gladly furnish additional
information that you or your attorney may require.

By creating a lasting monument through a bequest in our last

Twill, we are . . .

. . EXTENDING A HELPING HAND BEYOND OUR OWN LIFETIME.

  

Page 39




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

EUGENE H. ADAMS, 0e V“
ted to The American Hum-
ciation’s board of directors in 1
He is president of the First Na-
tional Bank of Den-
ver. Adams is chair-

man of the AHA
Children’s Advisory
Committee.

In addition to his
AHA activity, Adams
also serves as a board
member of the Wal-
lace School, a non-proﬁt corporation
for the education of handicapped
children. He is active in numerous

other civic and business organiza-
tions.

THOMAS T. BECKER, White Plains, has
been executive director of the New
York Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Children since 1947.
Becker was ﬁrst appointed to the
AHA board in 1952 and served
until 1954. He was again elected to
the board in 1956.
He now serves on the
Executive Committee.
Becker was admit-
ted to the Massachu-
setts Bar in 1936 and
practiced law in Bos-
ton until he entered
the Army Counter In-

Page 40

 

  
 
  
   
  
 
   

World War
he worked

  
   

rice Ad-
the
HARRY M. BREi, urgh, was

elected to the HA board in 1960;
he has been an AHA member for
many years.

Brown is president of the West-
ern Pennsylvania Humane Society
and has been a member of that or-
ganization’s board of managers
since 1951.

Brown has been
honored numerous
times by the oil in-
dustry for his work
in that ﬁeld. He
is also associated with
a number of business
organizations and is
on the national board of the Ameri-
can Automobile Club and the Pitts-
burgh board of YMCA.

CARLTON E. BUTTRICK, Boston, was
elected to the AHA board in 1957.
He has served the Association in
many other capacities: as director
of ﬁeld services and as its president.
He is presently a member ex-oﬂicio
of the AHA New England Service

Council.

 

He is president of
ISPA and the Animal
Rescue League of
Boston, past president
of New England F ed-
eration of Humane
Societies; a director
of the American Fon-
douk Maintenance
Committee; editor of Our Fourfooted
Friends; and is treasurer of New Eng-
land Livestock Conservation, Inc.
CHARLES w. FRIEDRICHS, San Fran-
cisco, has been a director of AHA
since 1950. He served as secretary,
1952-54, and has been a member
of various committees. He became
president of The American Humane
Association in 1958. He is an ex-
ofﬁcio member of AHA’s Pacific
Coast Service Council.

F riedrichs has been
executive secretary of
the San Francisco
SPCA since 1988; he
is director and secre-
tary of the Northern
California SPCA and
the Western Humane
Education Society;
and in 1958 he was elected president
of the State Humane Association of
California. He is also editor of OM

Animals, published by the San F ran-
cisco SPCA.

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY. I962

 

 

 




 

 

MRS. LURTON F. GOTTLIEB, Pensacola,
was ﬁrst elected to the AHA board
in 1955. She is a member of the Asso-
ciation’s Humane Education Com-
mittee and served as
its chairman from
1955 to 1958.

Mrs. Cottlieb has
been chairman of the
board of the Humane
Society of Pensacola
since 1943 and has
served as president of
the Florida Federation of Humane
Societies since 1953.

 

THOMAS c. JUSTICE, Columbus, is vice
president of The American Humane
Association and has been a member
of the AHA board since 1954.

Justice has been affiliated with the
Humane Society of
the City of Columbus
since 1941 as gen-
eral manager, assist-
ant secretary and
assistant treasurer. He
is president of the
Ohio Federated Hu-
mane Societies; past
president of Livestock Loss Preven-
tion Association of Ohio; past presi-
dent and a member of the board of
the Mid-West Humane Conference
and a member ex—ofﬁcio of the AHA
Midwest Service Council.

HENRY L. LEFFINGWELL, Cleveland,
became an AHA board member in
1955. He served on a special advisory
committee that reorganized Emer-
gency Animal Relief and is now on
the AHA Humane
Education Commit-
tee. He is also a mem-
ber ex-ofﬁcio of the
AHA Midwest Serv
ice Council.
Lefﬁngwell is direc-
tor and general man-
ager of the Cleveland
Animal Protective League and has
been in active service with that or-
ganization for 38 years. He is a past
vice president and now director of
the Ohio Federated Humane Soci-
eties. He was a director of the Mid-
West Humane Conference for 12
years and president in 1955-56.

WILSON D. MCKERROW, Brooklyn, was
elected to the AHA board in 1955.
He is a member of the Children’s
Advisory Committee and served as
its chairman for some time.

He wasa case worker for the Erie

 

 

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBR

County, N. Y., Children’s Aid
and SPCC from 1927
to 1930 and later
served in various po-
sitions in the ﬁeld of
social work.

McKerrow was a
member of the teach-
ing staff at the New
York School of Social
Work prior to his appointment as
executive director of the Brooklyn
SPCC in 1940.

 

STEPHEN J. MORRISSEY,
Seattle, became a
member of the AHA
board in 1955.
Morrissey has been
a member of the
board of trustees of
the King County Hu—
mane Society for 20 years and was
the Society’s president for several of
those years. He is extremely inter-
ested in conservation and has many
times served as attorney for the So-
ciety. He is a member e-x-ofﬁcio of
the Paciﬁc Coast Service Council.

c. RAYMOND NARAMORE, Rochester,
has been a member of the AHA
board since 1954. He is chairman of
the AHA Humane Education Com-
mittee, chairman of the AHA Hu-
mane Slaughter Com-
mittee.

Naramore is execu-
tive vice president of
the Humane Society
of Rochester and
Monroe County and
president of the New
York State Humane
Association. He is editor of Humane
Society News.

MISS J. M. PERRY, Greenville,
S. C., was elected to the d o
directors of The American '
Association in 1954. She
rently a member of the As
tion’s Animal Advisory Commi

Miss Perry, a prominent
ney in Creenville, has been .
tive humane leader for many yea

Under her guid-
ance as treasurer
and director, the
Creenville Human So-
ciety has grown to
be one of the best
societies in the
south.

 

 

  

MRS. J. FRANKLIN REEVES, Dallas, was
appointed to the AHA board in
1953. She has been a member of
the Animal Advisory Committee for
several years and was chairman in
1955.

Mrs. Reeves is pres-
ident of the Dallas
County Humane So-
ciety; a director of the
Texas Federation of
Humane Societies; a
director of the Dean
Memorial Children’s
Home of Dallas and

serves on the board of the Animal
Control Authority of the City of
Dallas.

She has been active in humane
work in the state of Texas for more
than 25 years.

LEW E. WILLIAMS,
Portland, was named
to the AHA board of
directors in 1955. He
was elected treasurer,
the position he cur—
rently holds with
- AHA. He is a member
ex-ofﬁcio of the AHA Paciﬁc Coast
Regional Service Council and is Pa-
ciﬁc Coast divisional director of
Emergency Animal Relief. He was
AHA president in 1953.

Williams became managing direc-
tor of the Oregon Humane Society
in 1950 and was elected a director
and treasurer of the Oregon society
Shortly afterward.

 

KERNS WRIGHT, Van Wert, O., was
elected to the AHA board in 1935.
He was chosen president of the
Association in 1952 and served as
its chief ofﬁcer until .
1958. 3
Wright is anational .
lader in child pro-

' work as well
work and is

 

  
  
   
    
  
    
   
  
  
  
   
 
  
   
   
   
   
   
 
   
 
  
  
   
  
    
  
  
   
   
  
   
   
   
   
   
  
  
  
    

              
    
     
 
   
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
  
 
  




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The AHA
Service

Dollar:

 

 

 

 

 

 

j ~ ' l.4c
43c ..

  I ~ 11% . . . '

  79.7c g; ,.

 

Financial
Support
From
Many
Sources. . .

Organization Memberships
National Humane Review
Printed Literature
Individual Contributors
Income from Trust Funds

Total Operating Income——

it. 15.731}Tiff-:13;“'.‘"‘jf—T-7‘f"ffiff'i'Zﬂfjfii 11:7.-7W, 1“ rc:;:‘“f§_‘"”.77,f“{77.. g 7 ,a
‘ v ‘ ‘ . .7 , -; g. *aﬁﬂw'kmﬂ

AN INCREASE IN
DONATIONS IS NEEDED

TO ASSURE CONTINUANCE
AND EXPANSION OF

THE AMERICAN HUMANE
ASSOCIATION'S PROGRAMS

Page 42 THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY. I962

 




V.

 

Completes
This
World-Wide
Picture Of

Service

  How AHA

_ Dollars

Serve:

Reference. sfafisfics. informafion. research and

ofher cenfral services '. .

I

Direcf service fo organizafions and municipalifies U,

Mo’rion picfures and felevision—supervisory and

consulfafion services .‘ 1.
Red Sfar Emergency Animal Relief and wildlife ..
Educafion and pUblic relafions services. .
Children's Division _-7 .

Pu blicafions Services _ .

Foreign sociefies and fhe lnfernafional Sociefy for

fhe Profecfion of Animals

. 27.6c
. 14.9c
.‘ 14.6c
. 11.8c
_. 11.3c
. 9.4c
. 7.4c

. 3.0c

Total 0 peraIi n 9 Ex pen se— $331 ,877

 

 
 

    

amwmwmma

THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN

IN COME AN D EX P E N SE WAS
MET BY P RO F IT 0 N ‘
SECURITIES SALES AND
FROM UNALLOCATED GIFTS

AND BEQUESTS

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY-FEﬁ/RSUARY,

I962

 

Page 43

 




 

 

 

    
 
  
   

 

 

SETTLE BACK IN your favorite easy tuted, and the chase continues. dumped had been spaded, making
chair to watch television or go to Then Mother Nature steps 1n. The the earth as soft as poss1ble. Leather Q
a motion picture theatre—the chances tempo of the picture is stepped-up bands w1th loops attached were fas- {1

are very good that you will see ani-
mal actors running, falling, dying
and going through all manner of
difﬁcult, amusing and clever antics.
It may be a horse toppling over dur-
ing a savage battle with the Indians,
or a fierce ﬁght to the death between
a dog and a wolf. You may even see
thousands of animals swallowed up
by the sea.

Relax, animal lovers! As soon as
the four-footed actors get out of
camera range, they do the same thing
that their human counterparts do:
get up and walk away, uninjured, to
rest, relax and to enjoy a tasty snack.

This is a far cry from the situation
that existed years ago when animals
frequently couldn’t get up after the
cameras quit grinding because of
severe injuries—even death—inﬂicted
by producers who insisted on reality
without regard for protection.

Today, when the “good guys” go
out after the “bad guys” on horse-
back, there may be a lot of shooting
—but the blanks are quarter or half
loads so that the noise will not
frighten or deafen the horses.

Suddenly, in a chase, there is a
ravine. There’s no turning back! The
horses must jump. The cameras stop,
trained jumping horses are substi-

  

by an unexpected sandstorm. There
is howling wind and blowing sand,
but the horses don’t mind a bit: all
of the sand is between the cameras
and the performers.

The storm clears. The “good guys”
begin to close in on the “bad guys.”
It comes down to close combat. A
horse is shot!

Once again a substitution is made.
This time, a trained falling horse is
brought into the picture. The horse
gallops into the scene, receives his
cue, and topples over as he has done
many times before.

Now the director needs a closeup
of the dead animal. Another equine
is brought in—a trained laydown
horse or a dummy that has been
made in the studio workshops.

Some years ago a contrivance
known as the Running W was used
on horses to provide spills and thrills
for movie scenes. By a system of
wires the front feet of the horse,
while he was racing at high speed,
were pulled from under him, forcing
his thousand pounds of body weight
to crash to the ground.

A typical use of this contraption
involved a sorrel horse that had been
used for the purpose several times
before. The spot where he was to be

 

 

tened about his front fetlocks. Wires
were run through the loops and up
through a metal ring contrivance at-
tached to the cinch under the belly.
The wire was securely attached to a
ground stake about 35 feet back.

The sorrel horse knew what was in
store for him. He associated that ri -
ging with the heavy falls he had ex—
perienced before. It was only put
on when he was to be thrown, so he
knew. He was nervous—full of fear.
It was not easy to hold him while he
was being readied.

The time came for the fall. A rider
mounted the sorrel. Another rode
alongside on a free horse. The two
dashed swiftly down a gentle slope.
Cameras were grinding.

When the soft earth spot was
reached, the wire cable pulled taut,
the front feet were plucked from
under the animal and down he
crashed with his nose in the dirt.

Soon he was on his feet again. He
was led away. All afternoon he was
nervous. He had experienced a bad
shock. He didn’t seem to be bruised,
and the only external evidence of
injury was a superficial wire cut
about two inches long.

A week later the sorrel horse was
again selected for a Running W.

_1——Ir-¢-f\!-h’W\MI—J

. twéf5ﬁ _> _
.9 ﬂ. ‘

ggfﬁaééﬁ'ﬁ‘? ,. a“

guy. ﬂyeﬁ’fﬁ;

ﬁ’" ,1,

. Wﬂ"”~q ,»
midﬁfzxfpw . mﬁuu—
“steel.

   
  
 

   

 
  

  
    
     

In}, «1‘
.”*‘.3§*i.‘
‘Rqﬁs Lg. : ‘
”$1 u: .. u)
.31 #1
.%¢- £ a
r

q:
”a
-,, 1:“
"at” . ”$2“ a
‘ r r _. " _
m
53%

   

mi? eff?
e 45%
s?
Q
@535"
g? git.
$85;

‘93“

we.
”32:-
3": *Wé’x
.n' ﬂ
:8.
{ya

 

  
 
    
  
      
     
    
   
   
   

cl}: '
h ";

llywood

    
 
     

 
    

uﬁﬁ $4
dank"; €35,
gig: 9‘
«a... i
M
3 '12. sh :9
a x l I

 
 

F.
. o~ ,.
m [5 Wu
, __ I
% “'1 _ ﬁre.
g I ~.‘.
' . 53." am

a “a
. Efria .» _ a
._ Y ,,

gtrgﬁﬁx r, .1— _

.' ,1;

 

 

eggs:
£3; ,
a?" . 1..
W ‘9’};

" a

’V.
at”?
'3'.“
at

a
3” ¥

{E
J :19.“ 1V'_I»F a

a
..“S:
£9223;

 

- ‘gémf.
‘1?

      

£4,535."
'5'
S
,3. ,
"‘ ”ﬁne

49
E
.

F :5: a

a “‘9-
ﬁg

1“}. .4
if
23%

in Q;- ' ~:‘ ..
épféfipagb .- J‘ ﬁ‘h Q

4” ' “5' .:
u ‘ E

§

‘ﬂ‘

  
    
 
    
   
   
 
 
 
  
      

     

56
a» 5%.
gas,“ ‘3'.
:-
wé
9'

      

‘rﬁ

” ‘55:
.3, .
$3339:
e3? 3*
4 a
'93:?

4'.
29
a?
..
_ 91:5.“
z .
‘93.“?
“is

spam}
-¢ . . %.

1.. “5; 1.
_. r, x3, ~- ~
6

. I
a a
”a“

" , MEEBRUARY. I962

g §2§L ﬂat

.53
£98
1"?

'5 "6...: Q: “3‘“ v
ﬂ ,0. ”3.5?11‘,
% I 2 V4 :6 db“
4: “Q ﬁifdl J I
. " '3
,. , . QWW
. tab. “ i” h ﬁm’wﬁg ‘3' as 1a V'- l I"; 31' “(2‘
- Libn’lﬁwglé, 3%,... ~, mm». as: n w» « -‘v ‘1‘
5 ..t‘ as? ,M 493553;? ”3“?!"ﬁ W ‘
i.ms.§ are "‘21
,. i. .v w... is”? ﬂex-rah a”? dam» .wg ' -
., -. “£55; a. 'v‘ ”f "WNN'W“ ‘- 4&1; i“
. a ,m‘ln‘! & 1“" Q‘eb at" '5‘-“ 9"

  
 

 

 

 

  
  
   

  
 
 

    
 
      
  
  

 
  

 

 

  
        

    
   

 

 

  

. . a. s? 1- x“ . "hﬁ ﬂ‘uﬁf
.~ - . — eﬁﬂﬁﬁg awn»- * MW "“15!” ﬁ ‘ *’

i‘amﬁr‘ gs; ”aw - . . . a- 1.. .. ~- .- fwm-ap‘a'zél’sw wiv‘Nﬁ‘tw-ﬁgéﬁ. w

wifm‘”i§”v“li€5ﬁ§lﬁ'3ﬁ§%m£’ﬁ' " :4. ”We . f‘a‘E‘IMMtqu’M:wrt. “ w x .
pas w... .r.:‘, ’4».- wrr"~~~u .L - .3. ' _ m4.» ' «M’- " . . ': ‘ "'5'"
ﬂew-53$“é?lat“friéwemf'fhz‘war-"i“vr “13:6 ~31, ' “”wfe'ﬂf'f'ﬂ 35’» 7" ~ “as": @6535

a ’, mm ~.- --.‘."~:" mgr 0‘ , «9* ‘ g . -*-.-. . \ w *- «Inn-.1,
if}#g,,y§:$gﬁ‘ $93.1? ea 3‘ ﬂé‘a‘ﬂﬁﬂg‘a’r‘ﬁttﬁk: {ﬁféﬁﬂ'ﬂi‘eﬁ’fszh a H ...’Jl'm ‘ I 3"l1‘£%1?§£§;’d




 

Again the ground was prepared to
break, if possible, the force of his
fall.

BUT THE TERRIBLE shock had re-
mained. The frightened creature
struck the ground with terrible force.
A foreleg was broken a few inches
from the top. The animal rolled over
once, struggled to his feet and stood
there dazed. Within thirty seconds a
bullet put him out of his suffering.
The boss horseman shed tears. Others
were silent. It spoiled lunch for the
men and spectators found it difficult
to express their feelings in words.

Two days later the third Running
W was staged, with a hired bay
horse, 12 years old, 1000 pounds.
Extra precautions were taken. There
could be no mishap, for that would
invalidate any excuses for the “un-
expected, regretable accident” of
two days before.

The horse and rider started. As
they reached the end of the wire, the
horse had his head well up. When
he fell, his nose smacked the earth
with a Violent, sickening thud. He
toppled over on his back, rolled on
his side.

No bullet was needed that time.
His neck was broken. He was dead.
N o more work was done on location
that day. The general attitude was of
men ashamed of their jobs. Among
the spectators a woman wept bitterly.
She knew the horse well for it had
belonged to her husband.

In a recent picture, the movie
scenario called for a pack horse to
plunge to his death from a snowy
mountain trail. Actually, the horse
moved only 40 inches and remained
standing out of camera range, calmly
munching oats, while the actual “fall”
was accomplished by a special proc-
ess involving miniature tie-ins.

This is in contrast to an act of
extreme cruelty which took place in
1938, and is generally regarded as
the incident which brought matters
to a head.

One horse was killed and another
injured during the ﬁlming of a west-
ern picture.

The ﬁrst horse was taken to the
top of a cliff high above a lake and
loaded into a blind chute which was
boarded up on both sides with a
canvas curtain in front. The chute
set on a roller-rocker so that the
horse would be urged forward, its
weight tipping the chute and forcing

the animal onto a greased slide. The
slide was designed to propel the
animal well out over the water.

The ﬁrst horse was blindfolded and
driven into the chute. At a signal
from the director, the blindfold was
removed, the front curtain pulled
aside. The horse was urged forward,
and before the animal knew what it
was all about, it hit the greased slide,
shot off into space, four hoofs out
and hindquarters down, and in a sit-
ting position, began its descent to
death. The animal hit the water hind-
most, came up twice and then went
to a watery grave.

HE PROCEDURE in the case of the

second horse was the same as the
ﬁrst. This horse, however, missed the
greased slide and fell close to the
side of the cliff and suffered a flesh
wound.

The incident received considerable
publicity, and as the story circulated,
cries of protest came from every
quarter—not only the humane soci-
eties, but columnists, government
ofﬁcials and the general public.

Richard C. Craven, speaking for
The American Humane Association,
sounded the battle cry when he
issued an ultimatum: “We refuse to
tolerate these cruelties any longer.
The motion picture industry is going
to stop it, whether they like it or not.
The time has passed for requests and
beseeching; we are now telling
them.”

Craven backed up his words with
action and went to Hollywood as a
representative of the AHA which
meant he was speaking for virtually
every humane society in the United
States and Canada.

In 1940, he succeeded in effecting

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY.

  
  
    
    

5 '1 " ' ' ﬁmﬁ‘ V .: l :1.
' . ‘ -— ‘ . J‘gﬁt‘fryﬁf“
_-. u

  

'1‘ . .1“; .
, a w£§§ﬁﬁ§egﬁ
., .‘ ”Hm: zygote — ’
1., M... 313133qu .,;amm
‘ it;Wezwaeﬁﬁmmiﬁmg , .
‘ .zrgt‘ﬁﬁgﬁf

:2. We «55.15
'1‘.

  
      

  
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
   
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
   
 
  
  
  
 
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
  
  
   
   
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
   

h m d» N. u, .
7‘ $1 m, c f#‘.@ Efﬁé
,f’; 3.. ﬂying? tag, "f‘ 45!. g;
'ﬁw’rriﬁéw f :65“ 1% 13% «it: ‘ if?
2%“ ", 'H‘w ‘1 1 1+“ ' ‘ ’1“- ’
#7 MI ' *igtfmm‘“ f N . t!

a“
."_

1
$193.}- 4' ' 1'4 ‘

.6
~35.

a ,’ ‘.
"=5. e.

a" any . -
Rﬁw‘ \. ’ -
9., “,7 . .

'3' ~ at

an agreement with the Motion Pic-
ture Association under which the
AHA’s representative should be re-
garded as the arbiter in all matters
connected with the use of animals,
and should be invited to all studio
sets and locations where animals
were being used.

Gradually there developed most
cordial relations between the studios
and the AHA. Today, The American
Humane Association’s approval is a
vital factor in every picture in which
animals appear.

The AHA Hollywood Ofﬁce,
headed by James Jack, ]r., is staffed
by inspectors experienced in super-
vising the use of animals in motion
picture production. AHA staff mem-
bers provide consultative service on
suggested scripts (they are trained to
spot difﬁcult or impossible situations,
involving animals, which can be ad-
justed in a conference before produc-
tion starts, thus saving the producer
time, trouble and money.)

Also offered are humane supervi-
sion of the use of animals in keeping
with the Motion Picture Association
of America code, and suggestions on
the proper handling of animals which
will be acceptable to the humane-
minded public.

The American Humane Associa-

     

|962 Page 45




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AHA Hollywood Office, cont.

tion provides the uniform service and
experienced personnel authorized by
the motion picture code, wherever
and whenever it is needed, regardless
of state or municipal boundaries.
AHA bears the full cost of this serv-
ice.

Scope of the AHA activity is not
limited to actual production. Animal
handling enroute to the location and
between scenes is also supervised. In
fact, the beneﬁt of AHA work is
greater behind the scenes, with only
a small percentage of the overall
effort expended during actual pro-
duction. Frequently a movie “extra”

 

will go horseback riding between
scenes, and the AHA representative
will discourage this to prevent the
animals working long stretches with-
out rest, food or water.

The AHA representatives must
know animals well.

It is fairly common practice to
take animals from Hollywood—at sea
level—to the mountains—perhaps to
an altitude of 8,000 feet or more. The
rareﬁed air, cooler temperatures, lack
of facilities and other factors call for
more rest periods and other consid-
erations. Of course, animals are not
unlike people in that they are indi-

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY

viduals. No set rule can be applied
to all animals, for each one Will
respond and react differently to a
given situation. AHA representatives,
trained, professional and thorOughly
experienced, know the needs of ani-
mals; they can spot difﬁculties that
would otherwise go unnoticed by
actors and producers.

. One director needed a shot of a
horse drinking from a brook. The old
adage about leading a horse to water
proved to be true. The horse just
wasn’t interested in taking a drink.
The director put out a call for the
AHA representative who was busy
with some animal action elsewhere.
He arrived shortly, “talked” with the
horse. The animal took a drink and
the director got his scene on ﬁlm.

A reporter standing nearby com-
mented, “That man is worth every
cent you pay him.”

One of the crew replied, “Oh, we
don’t pay him anything. That man is
The American Humane Association’s
representative.”

HE REPORTER WAS fascinated. He

spent the rest of the day follow--
ing the AHA man: they were late to
meals, checking ﬁrst to see that the
animals were being fed; they walked
and walked; they kept right on work-
ing after the company had quit for
the day. The reporter later admitted
it was the most tiring day he had put
in for a long time.

The American Humane Associa-
tion does not condone acts of brutal-7
ity, even when they can be depicted
without actual cruelty taking place.

In one picture, the story of dog
ﬁghting was told vividly. It was “ac-
ceptable” because the general tenor
of the ﬁlm was in opposition to the
brutality of the dog pit. AHA repre’
sentatives were on hand and they
knew none of the animals were
abused, despite the fact that dog
ﬁghts did appear on the screen. At
no time was there any physical con—-
tact between the dogs in the pit.

When a stage coach or other vet

1AHA helped “Rhubarb” make a movie; then
onored the cat by presenting it with the
second annual PATSY Award in 1952.

| 962

 

.m— A rn




 

 

Has any human actor ever
lived such a life of pampered

comfort?

hicle turns over at a high rate of
speed, a break-away is accomplished.
A mechanical arrangement releases
the hitch from the vehicle at a
designated point. Once released, a
supporting device—invisible to the
cameras—holds the pole and double-
tree in a safe position so that it does
not strike the horses.

On a western location one day, at
a given signal a herd of horses and
a tribe of whooping, hollering In-
dians were to charge into camera
range from behind a hill. One par-
ticular horse became confused and
refused to move out. A bit player be-
came infuriated, picked up a heavy
hickory bow and gave the animal
such a sound thump that the heavy
piece of wood snapped in two.

An AHA representative viewed the
incident from a distance,.but before
he could arrive on the scene, the
producer already was giving the
actor a sound verbal drubbing.

“This sort of thing isn’t necessary,”
he exclaimed, “and I won’t tolerate
such childish actions by any of my
people!” He called a standby car to
take the actor back to Hollywood,
then told the crowd that had assem-
bled, “I won’t have a man like that
working on a picture for me.”

Long ago, animals were consid-
ered for the most part as props, some-
thing to be added for scenic effects
or as adjuncts to human actors. Then
AHA went to Hollywood. Men came
forward to bring out the natural ap—
titude of animals, not by means of
the brutal whip, but by careful

schooling processes.

The Motion Picture Association of
America Code states: “In the pro—
duction of motion pictures involving
animals, the producer shall consult
with the authorized representative of
The American Humane Association,
and invite him to be present during
the staging of such animal action.
There shall be no use of any con-
trivance or apparatus for tripping or
otherwise treating animals in an un—
acceptably harsh manner.”

Television productions, both live
and ﬁlmed, are not covered by such
a “code” requirement. However,
nearly all television ﬁlms are super-
vised at the request of the producers.

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY. I962

In addition, the major networks make
use of AHA advisory service on ani-
mals.

Code and voluntary supervision
therefore covers nearly 100 per cent
of all animal action seen in the
theatre and on television. AHA can—
not assure that there is no cruelty
inﬂicted in some foreign made ﬁlms
(although such a goal is in sight with
the cooperative efforts of The Inter-
national Society for the Protection of
Animals), ﬁlms presented without
the MPAA Code seal of approval,

and in a few television shows.

As animals became more important
to motion pictures, frequent sugges-
tions were made that the animals
should have their own “Oscars,”
much the same as the human per-
formers.

The idea took hold and the result
was the AHA PATSY Awards. They
were ﬁrst established in 1951 and
have become an annual affair ever
since. “Francis”, the talking mule,
walked away with the top honors the
ﬁrst year.

AZTUALLY PATSY is a double-duty
abbreviation. In motion pictures
it stands for Performing Animal Top
Star of the Year. And for television

erformers, identical awards (estab-
lished in 1958) honor the Performing
Animal Television Star of the Year:

These annual award celebrations
serve to publicly express the day in
and day out cooperation between
AHA and the motion picture and
television producers.

The PATSY Awards—and their at-
tendant publicity—also help to call

 

public attention to the value of kind-
ness toward animals—household pets
or Hollywood “stars”—as being far
superior to punishment, brutality and
fear.

Each year AHA polls many hun-
dreds of entertainment editors, writ—
ers and critics to determine the win—
ners of the ﬁrst place PATSY trophies
and the second and third place
awards. Additional awards of excel-
lence are presented when the vote
indicates deserving performances.

Another award, named to honor
the late Richard C. Craven is given
to animals that ordinarily have no
opportunity for a starring role, but
excel in training, talent, ability and,
of course, are humanely handled.
This includes sustaining action and
specialty action such as falling, rear-
ing, jumping and “ﬁghting.”

Motion picture animals are eligible
for the PATSY Award when they ap-
pear in a feature ﬁlm meeting AHA
standards. Television animals may
qualify for nomination by perform—
ing in AHA-accepted network pro-
grams, or ﬁrst-run syndicated shows,
of at least a half-hour length.

When The American Humane
Association went to Hollywood, a
new chapter was added to the slice
of Americana known as the humane
movement. Certainly, if any phase of
the work appears glamorous, this
would be it. In actual practice, how-
ever, it is just another job—and not

an easy one, at that—which needs to
be done.

The foregoing article is based 0 ‘ '
contained ,in two AHA publicatioﬁsfn‘f‘xfgitwi;
Hollywood and “The Patsy Awards." Both. book-

lets are available on re u 1;
quarters. q es from AHA head-

Page 47

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

That
Special Week

HE NATIONWIDE movement for
the observance of a Humane
Sunday and a Be Kind to Animals
Week was launched in 1914 by The
American Humane Association at its
annual convention in Atlantic City.
Considerable effort in the direc-
tion of this national drive had al—
ready been made. For a few years
previous to 1914, Mercy Sunday ser-
mons had been delivered in various
parts of the United States. Unfor-
tunately, the Mercy Sunday idea had
not proved as popular with the
clergy as humanitarians had hoped.
Just previous to the decision by
The American Humane Association
to institute the national movement,
an effort to recognize a “humane”
Sunday had seen limited success in
Philadelphia.

The American Humane Associa-
tion proposed to extend this move-
ment into each of the states. The
central plan of the campaign was
to be in the charge of a special com-
mittee of the Association, headed
by Mrs. Mary F. Lovell of Jenkin-
tOWn, Pa., as chairman. Mrs. Lovell,
and Guy Richardson of Boston who
served as secretary of the national
committee, were to appoint state
chairmen. The state leaders would
then, in turn, select members of a
state-wide committee which would
handle all local publicity and pro-
motion.

The national Be Kind to Animals
Week committee planned to have
Humane Sunday include the con-

Page 48

sideration of kindly treatment for
both children and animals. The
Week itself would be devoted only
to animals.

Dr. William O. Stillman, president
of The American Humane Associa-
tion and editor of The National H u-
mane Review, said in an editorial
immediately following the 1914 con-
vention:

“Much good will come from the
systematic carrying out of this plan.
It will serve to educate many people
in the tenets of kindness who would
not otherwise be brought under its
influence.”

The ﬁrst Be Kind to Animals Week
took place the week of May 17-23,
1915.

Committees had been formed and
functioned in 43 of the 48 states. The
state committees followed three
basic campaign themes: l—visit
schools and emphasize to the teach-
ers the importance of humane edu-
cation; 2—carry out a campaign of
education by giving the widest pub—
licity to the work of the local humane
society throughout the week; and,
3—observe Humane Sunday by try—
ing to have every clergyman preach
a special sermon on the subject of
kindness.

The Association prepared special
Be Kind to Animals Week literature
which was made available to the
state committees for local distribu-
tion.

Humanitarians

throughout the
country devoted

themselves to

         
 

 
  

.“
‘ z

Introducing
the 1962
BKA Week

Poster

making that ﬁrst BKA \Veek a huge
success. Dr. Stillman, in June of
1915 commented: “It has been a
source of great gratiﬁcation to those
interested actively in the humane
cause in this country that the special
observance of Humane Sunday and
Be Kind to Animals Week has met
with such enthusiastic reception.”

A month later, Dr. Stillman said:
“The humane movement never re-
ceived as much general publicity in
the same length of time as during
the few weeks before and including
Be Kind to Animals Week. People
who never had heard of the wonder-
ful work being done in behalf of
child and animal protection 53W
column after column of special mat-
ter in the newspapers. Whole cities
were stirred by big mass meetings.

“On the whole, Be Kind to Ani-

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY—FEBRUARY. I952

 

 

 

 




 

 

THE NATIONAL HUMANE

REVIEW—JANUARY

-FEBRUARY,

I962

Page 49

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

mals Week and Humane Sunday
proved to be great successes. The
auspicious beginning insures their
being retained as annual events
to stimulate and revive humane
thought.”

And retained they were! The week
of May 6-12, 1962 will mark the 48th
annual observance of Be Kind to
Animals Week and Humane Sun-
day. BIGA Week is one of the oldest
special weeks in existence in this
country.

Be Kind to Animals Week, from
its beginning, has served as one of
the most effective means for making
the public aware of the work of the
humane movement.

BKA Week beneﬁts the individual
society, as well as the Association, in
many ways. Perhaps two are fore-
most.

The national observance of this
traditional week creates an induce-
ment for newspapers, radio and TV
stations, churches, schools, etc., to
impress upon the public the moral
obligation of man to be kind to the
creatures which serve him. BKA
Week publicity reached a magazine-
newspa-per circulation of 76 million
last year. And some 550 radio and
television stations in 1961 carried
BKA Week announcements and
other programs.

Be Kind to Animals Week also
provides the local society with the

 

 

Mrs. Mary F. Lovell of Jenkintown,
Pa., served as national chairman of
ﬁrst Be Kind to Animals Week.

best and greatest opportunity to
secure publicity and illustrate for the
community what it has done through-
out the year to deserve the continued
support of its citizens.

Some humane organizations look
forward to the special week as the
focal point of their activities for the
entire year.

Humane organizations which have
conducted successful BKA Week ob-
servances point out that one of the
ﬁrst requisites for Be Kind to Ani-

mals Week activities is the appoint-
ment of a special committee to work
exclusively on the project. To pro-
vide an effective and complete cam-
paign, this committee needs as much
time as possible in which to work,
Informing the community of the
achievements of nearly a century of
humane work on the national level
and focusing a special attention upon
the local society are important parts
of the committee’s work.

Each year The American Humane
Association prepares and distributes
a “kindness” poster for use by the
local humane organizations. This
poster is widely accepted by schools
and churches. Department and other
stores often incorporate these posters
into window displays.

In addition to BKA Week, many
humane organizations retain the
poster for use throughout the year
for publicity purposes.

The Association also prepares a
kit of information and ideas for Be
Kind to Animals Week each year.
Nearly 70,000 rinted pieces were
published by AHA for BKA week
alone last year. This material is de-
signed as an aid in helping the indi-
vidual society plan for a BKA Week
program in its own community,
rather than as a complete program.

The American Humane Associa-
tion sponsors and fully supports the
event nationally.

The American Humane Association

896 Pennsylvania

OFFICERS

St. Denver 3. Colo.

Page 50

 

 

Charles W. F riedrichs, San Francisco, Calif., President;
Thomas C. Justice, Columbus, Ohio, Vice President; Ruther-
ford T. Phillips, Denver, Colo., Secretary; Mrs. William T.
Bruckner, Hinsdale, Ill., Assistant Secretary; Mrs. Blair F.
Claybaugh, Harrisburg, Pa., Assistant Secretary; Lew E.
Williams, Portland, Ore., Treasurer; Elmer Johnson, Denver,
Colo., Assistant Treasurer.

DIRECTORS

Eugene H. Adams, Denver, Colo.; Thomas T. Becker,
White Plains, N.Y.; Harry M. Brown, Pittsburgh, Pa.;
Carlton E. Buttrick, Boston, Mass.; Charles W. Fried-
richs, San Francisco, Calif.; Mrs. Lurton F. Gottlieb, Pensa-
cola, F 1a.; Thomas C. Justice, Columbus, Ohio; Henry L.
Leﬂingwell, Cleveland, Ohio; Wilson D. McKerrow, Brook-
lyn, N .Y.; Stephen J. Morrissey, Seattle, Wash.; C. Raymond
Naramore, Rochester, N.Y.; Miss J. M. Perry, Greenville,
SC; Mrs. J. Franklin Reeves, Dallas, Texas; Lew E. Wil-
liams, Portland, Ore.; Kerns Wright, Van Wert, Ohio.

HONORARY VICE PRESIDENTS

Horace Baggott, Hon. Percival P. Baxter, John D. Beals,
Jr., Miss Harriet G. Bird, E. E. Bishop, Mrs. Louis Borsody,

THE NA>TIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARYI

Mrs. W. T. Bruckner, Dr. Grace W. Burnett, Miss Annie
Castleman, Mrs. Andrew P. Catto, Mrs. John J. Caulﬁeld,
John M. B. Churchill, B. Dean Clanton, James K. Coyne,
E. Blois du Bois, John Evans, Miss Gladys Gray, Dr. Eric
H. Hansen, Miss Neva Belle Harrod, George D. Hatie.
J. W. Huntington, Dr. J. W. Jackman, VVilber Jones, John
H. Kitchen, Mrs. I. Milo Kittleson, Irving B. Kline, Robert
I. Kopper, Carl Lambach, Philip F. Landis, T. Robley
Louttit, Miss Annie L. Macleod, Miss Florence N. Mahef,
Thomas E. Marshall, Elmer E. Matthews, Harry D. Nims,
Mrs. Arthur F. Perkins, Mrs. J. S. Prestridge, Charles Pusey,
Mrs. M. D. Ravenscroft, Mrs. Arthur T. Remington, Barclay
Robinson, Wm. Rockefeller, Hon. Morgan M. L. Ryan,
Mrs. J. Myer Schine, Harold U. Scott, Mrs. W. C. Sieker,
Dr. Michael Sossin, Wade Stevenson, Mrs. Frank Thomas,
MISS E. H. Tompkins, Miss Gertrude E. Vrooman, D. A.
Wallace, Charles R. Wilson, Mrs. Edith Wisner, Freeman
Wood.
EXECUTIVE STAFF

Rutherford T. Phillips,' Executive Director; Vincent
DeFrancis, Director, Children’s Division; Kenneth B. MC-
Govern, Jr., Frank R. Andrews, Ronald P. Lambert, Field
Consultants; Mrs. Eileen F. Schoen, Editorial Department;

Robert W. Fouse, Public Relations Department; James Jack,
Jr., Director, Hollywood Ofﬁce.

I 962

 

 




THE discussion of slaughterhouse
methods in the United States has
been going on for more than 85 years.
No sooner was The American Hu-
mane Association formed than the
subject was forced upon it.

During the early years of
The American Humane Association,
many humanitarians visited abattoirs
throughout the country and brought
to the annual AHA meetings reports
of blood, ﬁlth and pain. But be-
yond their reports—and indignant
discussions among other delegates
at the annual meetings—nothing of
any moment was accomplished to-
ward the elimination of slaughter-
house cruelties.

The problem at that time could
have been compared with David con-
fronting Goliath. The number of
animals involved was so great; the
business interests engaged in the
meat industry so powerful, that a
contest between them and the hu-
mane societies seemed to offer ab-
solutely no hope of success.

By the 19205, humanitarians were
tired of hearing the more or less
stereotyped reports of slau hterhouse
practices and what shoul be done.
They wanted constructive action.

  

 

The ﬁrst active human slaughter
committee of The American Humane
Association was appointed in 1921
with Dr. Francis H. Rowley of Bos-
ton at its head. The new committee
plunged into its work with a vigor
rarely seen during the early years
of AHA.

An intensive publicity campaign
was begun. Newspaper support
sprang up, almost surprising the
committee members. AHA deluged
the Post Ofﬁce with printed literature
on the subject and thousands of
Americans fell behind the Associa—
tion in its demand for a humane
death for food animals. The story of
needlessly cruel methods by which
food animals were dispatched be-
came known throughout the country.

For a long time, reports of the
humane methods used in European
abattoirs had ﬁltered into AHA head-
quarters. Accordingly, a member of
the AHA slaughter committee, in the
company of an expert veterinarian,
went on a tour of the leading slaugh-
terhouses of Europe.

Although the visiting Americans
did discover many instances of what
could honestly be called attempts
at humane slaughtering, none of the

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY.

 

methods in use in Europe would
adapt to American slaughtering con-
ditions. They were either too slow,
or too ineffectual to meet US. needs.

Upon the committee’s report, the
American SPCA offered in coopera-
tion with the Association a prize of
$10,000 for the invention of a device
that would render food animals com-
pletely unconscious before either
being jerked up by a hind leg or
subjected to the knife.

Only two of the 577 entries in the
competition gave evidence of any
promise. One seemed to answer every
requirement of the AHA committee.
Its inventor was given the oppor-
tunity by a large packing house to
try out the device.

In the presence of the representa-
tives of the abattoirs, he successfully
dropped, instantly and painlessly,
twelve large cattle. Then with the
thirteenth, something went wrong
with the instrument.

The inventor was sure he would be
able to perfect his device. The instru-
ment—or the principle of the instru-
ment—is in use today. It is the
captive bolt pistol.

AHA publicity on the cruelties of
the slaughterhouse had become so

'962 Page 5|

     




 

 

 

 

 

 
   
   
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

intense by this time that packers
were beginning, on their own, to
search for an answer. Numerous ﬁrms
did come up with small improve-
ments.

In 1929, a joint committee of The
American Humane Association and
the American Meat Institute began
work on humane slaughter methods
and devices, incorporating all that
had been accomplished by the two
organizations in previous separate
attempts. Many progressive packers
worked closely with this joint com-
mittee, ﬁeld testing and reporting on
the practicability of instruments sub-
mitted by inventors.

Year by year, more and more in—
formation and understanding of
methods was developed. Each year
saw some added idea in the quest
for quick, efﬁcient slaughter methods
on a mass production basis.

In 1955, Senator Hubert H. Hum-
phrey at the request of The Ameri-
can Humane Association introduced
the ﬁrst humane slaughter bill before
the United States Senate.

In introducing the measure, Sen.
Humphrey said: “The slaughter in-
dustry of Britain, the Scandinavian
countries, and in fact all the nations
of Europe, have for some time im-
mobilized and made insensible to
pain all animals and poultry before
slaughtering and bleeding. Europe is
far advanced over the United States
in humane methods of slaughter.”

AHA followed up Sen. Humphrey’s
introduction of the humane slaughter
bill in Congress with one of the most
intense publicity-public relations
campaign it has even conducted.

Immediately after a committee
hearing, a non-compulsory humane

slaughte bill as assedinth as

  

  
   
   

journed in 1957, this bill had not
been voted on by the House of Rep-
resentatives.

Throughout the United States,
public opinion was growing more
and more in favor of humane slaugh—
ter. Housewives clamored for action;
legislators agreed that something had
to be done.

In an effort to expand cooperative
relationships with the packing in-
dustry, The American Humane Asso—
ciation introduced its now-familiar
“Seal of Approval” for the humane
slaughtering of meat animals.

The “Seal” was awarded for the
ﬁrst time in January 1957 when the
Seitz Packing Company of St. Louis
and Hoerter and Son of Louisville
were recognized. By December 1957,
the number of packers holding AHA
“Seals of Approval” had reached 11,
including Swift, Armour, Oscar
Mayer and Hormel.

The attractive red, yellow and blue
“Seal” served as visual testimony for
packers in announcing to the general
public that they were in favor of
humane slaughter efforts. The “Seal”
was awarded to ﬁrms using 100 per
cent humane methods on one or more
species of livestock.

Rigid standards were set up by
AHA’s “Seal of Approval” committee.
Each packer receiving the award had
’to sign an agreement which speciﬁed
that the “Seal” could be retained
only as long as the slaughter methods
used equalled or exceeded the stand-
ards. The AHA committee had the
ﬁnal word in deciding upon a pack-
er’s retention of the “Seal.”

The “Seal” did its job of congratu-
lating those packers who voluntarily
took the ﬁrst step in converting their
' alla ons 0......humane- methods. It
other pack-
hich would

bleeding.
ms were, on
approved
their plants

, Represent-
other Con-
they were
this subject
before them.
for humane

    
   
  
  
 
  
   

 

hind humane slaughter; and meat
packers, holding their AHA “Seals”
as proof, were for humane slaughter.

in February of 1958, HR 8308 was
overwhelmingly passed on voice vote
in the House—a modiﬁed version of
the bill which had been introduced
in the Senate at AHA’s request by
Senator Humphrey.

The legislation then traveled over
some rocky roads as it went before
the Senate Committee on Agriculture
and Forestry. It was reported out on
June 18 in amended form—as a study
bill, not too unlike the legislation
which had passed the Senate two
years before!

Through Sen. Humphrey’s excel-
lent leadership (and with 17 other
Senators supporting him) the bill
was amended back to the form in
which it had passed the House. It
was approved by the Senate 72-9.

HR 8808 was signed into law on
August 27, 1958 by President Dwight
D. Eisenhower. It represented one of
the greatest Victories the humane
movement has ever accomplished.

Although HR 8808 (Public Law
85—765) is called a compulsory law
by humanitarians, there is no pen-
alty for non-compliance.

However, it does have the effect of
a compulsory law in that under its
provisions, packers who did not meet
its requirements after June 30, 1960
were not permitted to sell their prod-
ucts to the United States Govern-
ment. The federal law covered about
90 per cent of the meat animals
handled in the country. But for the
remaining 10 per cent, something else
was needed.

Thus began the campaign for state
humane slaughter laws which, when
passed in all 50 states, will offer com-
plete coverage to all animals slaugh-
tered in the United States.

With the passage of the federal
slaughter bill, a question as to the
need of The American Humane
Association’s “Seal of Approval”
arose. The Association decided to
continue awarding the “Seal” in the
belief that it would prompt small
packers, selling locally, to volun-
tarily convert their plants.

The “Seal” had succeeded in itS
original purpose of inspiring a hiQEh
Splrit of competition among the
packers. Most of those who had re-
ceived the AHA award before the
slaughter law went into effect have
continued to hold the “Seal” and
have continued their research for still

ANUARY-FEBRUARY. I962

 

i—I-‘fh fh m (V:

A n—h A \—l




 

new methods for humane slaughter.

And now the “Seal” is aiding those
animals not covered by Public Law
85-765 to receive a humane death by
encouraging those packers not under
either federal or state law to install
humane methods.

Under the provisions of Public
Law 85-765, a special Humane Ad-
visory Committee, working under
the US. Department of Agriculture,
was set up. This group is comprised
of representatives from the slaugh-
tering industry, trade unions, hu-
mane organizations, the general
public, livestock and poultry groups,
veterinary associations and religious
groups. Rutherford T. Phillips, AHA
executive director, and John C. Mac-
farlane, ﬁeld director of New Eng-
land Livestock Conservation, Inc.,
were chosen the humane organiza-
tion representatives.

Three methods of stunning live-
stock prior to slaughter were desig—
nated by the advisory committee as
being humane. These are: chemical
—the use of carbon dioxide gas for
sheep and swine; mechanical—cap-
tive bolt and gunshot devices for
sheep, swine, goats, calves, cattle,
horses and mules; electrical—for stun-
ning swine, sheep, calves and cattle.

Designated methods require chem-
ical and electrical administration to
produce surgical anesthesia quickly
and calmly. The mechanical devices
must produce immediate and com—
plete unconsciousness with a mini-
mum of excitement.

Animals must also be driven to
slaughter areas with a minimum of
excitement and discomfort.

Twelve states had passed humane
slaughter measures by the end of
1961. These were California, Con-
necticut, Florida, Kansas, Maine,
Massachusetts, Minnesota, New
Hampshire, Oregon, Rhode Island,
Washington and Wisconsin. Activity
is expected in other states in both
1962 and 1963.

In addition to eliminating the
cruelties of the slaughter house, hu-
mane slaughter laws provide safer
and better working conditions for
backing house employees. Better
handling methods have improved the
meat products. Many packers have
said that the cost of their operations
have been cut noticeably as a result
Of these improved and humane
slaughtering methods.

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY.

 

 

AHA ”SEAL OF APPROVAL” HAS BEEN
AWARDED TO THESE PACKERS FOR HUMANE
HANDLING AND DISPATCHING OF FOOD ANIMALS.

 

ALL SPECIES

NATIONWIDE DISTRIBUTION
Armour and Company
Cudahy Packing Company
Geo. A. Hormel and Co.
Oscar Mayer and Co.

John Morrell and Co.
Swift and Company
Wilson and Co.

CALIFORNIA

Minch's Wholesale Meats
MAINE

Oxford Abattoir, Inc.
MARYLAND

MINNESOTA
Elliott Packing Co.
OHIO

E. Kahn's Sons Co.
Sucher Packing Company
Val Decker Packing Co.

SOUTH CAROLINA

Greenwood Packing Company
TEXAS

Cass City Packing Company
UTAH

McFarland, Inc.
VERMONT

Shonyo Packing, Inc.
WISCONSIN

Patrick Cudahy, Inc.
Paulus Mar et

 

BEEF

NATIONWIDE DISTRIBUTION
The Rath Packing Company
MIDWESTERN DISTRIBUTION
E. W. Kneip, Inc.
CALIFORNIA
Berchem Meat Company
Bryan Meat Company, Inc.
C and M Meat Packing Corp.
Chico Meat Company
Modesto Meat Company
Noble's Independent Meat Co.
Solano Meat Company
Wright Packing Co., Inc.
COLORADO
National Food Stores, Inc.
FLORIDA
Herman Sausage Co., Inc.
Lykes Bros., Inc.
ILLINOIS
DuOuion Packing Company
Tarpoff Packing Company
INDIANA
Stark, Wetzel and Co.
IOWA
Iowa Beef Packers, Inc.
MICHIGAN
Peet Packing Company
Smith Packing Company
Standard Beef, Inc.
MISSOURI
Seitz Packing Company, Inc.
MONTANA
Great Falls Meat Company
Montana Meat Company
Montana Packing Company, Inc.
NEW HAMPSHIRE
Granite State Packing Company
Geo. H. Taylor & Son
NEW YORK
Monroe Packing Company
Queen Packing Company
OHIO
Braun Brothers Packing Company
The Wm. Focke Sons Company
Sugardale Provision Company
OREGON
Arrow Meat Company
D. E. Nebergall Meat Company

 

Wm. Scthderberg-T. J. Kurdle Co.

LAMB

VE

 

 

 

T. P. Packing Company
Cascade Meats, Inc.

PENNSYLVANIA

Medford's, Inc.
North Side Packing Co., Inc.

SOUTH CAROLINA

Balentine Packing Company
TEXAS

Peyton Packing Co., Inc.
UTAH

Ogden Dressed Meat Company
WASHINGTON

Auburn Packing Co., Inc.

City Packing Company

Meats, Inc.

Schaake Packing Company, Inc.

WISCONSIN
Wisconsin Packing Company

CALIFORNIA

Solano Meat Company
KENTUCKY

Hoerter and Son
NEW HAMPSHIRE

Geo. H. Taylor & Son
TEXAS

Peyton Packing Co., Inc.

AL

NATIONWIDE DISTRIBUTION
The Rath Packing Company
MIDWESTERN DISTRIBUTION
E. W. Kneip, Inc.
CALIFORNIA

Bryan Meat Company

Noble's Independent Meat Company
Solano Meat Company

Wright Packing Co., Inc.

MONTANA

Montana Packing Company, Inc.
NEW HAMPSHIRE '

Granite State Packing Co.
OREGON

D. E. Nebergall Meat Co.
UTAH

Ogden Dressed Meat Company

PORK

 

CALIFORNIA

Chico Meat Company
ILLINOIS

Reliable Packing Company
INDIANA

Stark, Wetzel and Co., Inc.
IOWA

Sioux City Dressed Pork, Inc.
MICHIGAN

Peet Packing Company

Smith Packing Company
MISSOURI

Oldham's Farm Sausage
NEW HAMPSHIRE

Geo. H. Taylor 8: Son
NEW JERSEY

John Englehorn and Sons
NEW YORK

Tobin Packing Company
OHIO

Braun Brothers Packing Company

The Wm. Focke Sons Company

Sugardale Provision Company
OREGON

D. E. Nebergall Meat Co.
PENNSYLVANIA

Penn Packing Company
SOUTH CAROLINA

Balentine Packing Company
TEXAS

Peyton Packing Company
VIRGINIA

Smithfield Packing Company, Inc.'

I952 Page 53

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I The history of humane education
has no real starting point. It has been
a concern of humanitarians from the
beginning of recorded time.

Mention of humane attitudes and
how they are attained can be found
in early Chinese writings. The Ro-
man and Greek philosophers dis-
cussed it. It is a basic tenet of all
major religions.

Humane education appears as one
of the ﬁrst goals of the men and
women who founded the Royal So-
ciety for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals, the ﬁrst anticruelty soci-
ety in the world.

It was discussed by American hu-
manitarians long before the organ-
ized humane movement reached this
country. And humane education was
an interest of the delegates who at-
tended the earliest meetings of The

 

umane

 

Education

American Humane Association.

Therefore, in writing about hu-
mane education, one can only tell
what it is and how it can be ex-
panded rather than how it began.

Among the humane workers of
today, the importance of humane
education is so unanimously ac-
cepted that these workers some-
times forget that the term itself is
unknown to a great many people.

Humane education is not, and
should not be allowed to become a
program to provide “a pet for every
child.”

A child should never be encour-
aged to own a pet because it’s “the
thing to do.” Only when the parents
and the child are prepared to give
the pet proper care should a young-
ster be allowed to have an animal.

Principles of kindness and under—

A classroom participates in a humane education program.

Page 54

,_,m,...r¢5- ...............................................

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY

standing are acquired only by teach-
ing. Untaught children are naturally
thoughtless and often do cruel
things. The result can be the same
as deliberate cruelty.

The purpose of humane education
is to teach a child, or adult, to re-
gard animals as living creatures with
definite needs.

One of the ﬁrst questions to be
asked by those who are not familiar
with the purposes of humane educa-
tion is: “In what way does humane
education differ from nature study,
which in one form or another, is
already included in most school
curriculums?”

Nature study teaches children to
make accurate observations of ani-
mals in their natural environment,
as well as in captivity. Humane edu-
cation, on the other hand, empha-
sizes proper care and treatment of
animals.

Humane education actually iS
basic in many thousands of schools.
It is required by law in some states.
And the use of that classroom time
is justiﬁed by the fact that when a
child is taught compassion for all
living things, human or animal, that
child is helped to become a kinder
and more merciful adult.

To disseminate information about
the value of humane education is
one of the primary objects of 31
persons who contemplate entering
into humane education activities
where none exist.

The American Humane Associa-
tion, over the years, has recognize
the need for a program that Was
calculated to give the greatest
amount of help to schools and 01"
ganizations desiring to introduce hu-

I962

 

SAVES

"T'l

H0 huh—(PH on




 

 

mane education to the youth of the
community.

But the greatest difﬁculty in pre-
paring such a program was the fact
that it should be usable in either
public or private schools without an
involved setting-up procedure. AHA
developed several programs and the
program currently in use was com-
pleted in late 1957. It is continually
improved upon as new methods and
ideas become available.

This program furnishes step by

step information for initiating and
conducting a humane education
program that is adequate for use in
three distinct age level brackets (pri-
mary, intermediate and high school
or adult).

The AHA program points out that,
in organizing a local humane educa-
tion set-up, formal action should be
taken to determine the extent of a
community’s need. The extent of
funds that can be obtained for its
use is another important considera-
tion.

“Animals in

I CHILDREN AND ANIMALS - they
just naturally seem to be attracted
to each other. When a child draws
a picture to show what he is think-
ing, frequently an animal is the
featured subject.

The American Humane Associa-
tion is aware of this attraction be—
tween children and animals. Its
annual “Animals in Art” poster con—
test is based on this principle.

By incorporating a child’s inherent
interest in animals with a tangible
goal, AHA is able to promote more
interest in the humane care and pro-
tection of all living things.

Children in elementary and sec-
ondary schools are eligible to enter
the competition. Each entry in the
contest must deal with some phase
of promoting interest in the proper
and humane care of animals. The
positive approach to kindness is the
preferred method of presentation.

Entries in the 48th annual “Ani-
mals in Art” poster contest must
reach AHA headquarters no later
than March 1, 1962. ,

Prizes include cash awards for
ﬁrst and second place winners in
each of four school-grade categor-
ies. Art supplies equal to the cash
award will be given to the ﬁrst place
winners’ schools.

Other awards include one-year
subscriptions to The National H u-
mane Review and certiﬁcates for
framing. All teachers having cash
award winners also receive compli-
mentary onelyear subscriptions to
the Review.

Competition is not limited to

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY. I962

school-conducted contests. Any in-
terested youth group may also par-
ticipate. Humane organizations may
and frequently do sponsor competi-
tions on a local level, forwarding top
winners on for inclusion in the na-
tional contest.

“Animals in Art” poster contest
rules for 1962 are as follows:

1. Each entry must be the per-
sonal and original work of the stu-
dent. whose name it bears. School
or class projects are not eligible.
Copying from other sources is for-
bidden. Tracings and three-dimen-
sional entries are not eligible.

2. Posters must be a minimum of
9” X 12”; maximum of 22” X 28”;
either vertical or horizontal.

3. Crayon, ink, paint, cut paper

 

Once the basic groundwork has
been completed, a workable plan
must be presented to the local school
board. Much of the materials needed
for this phase of the program can
be obtained from AHA.

And once the humane education
program is underway, a responsibil-
ity has been assumed in which there
can be no failure.

For education is the key to the
future. And humane education is
the key to a better and more peace-
ful world.

99

 

l‘

or water colors may be used at will.

4. Each poster must include letter-
ing, one or more words.

5. All entries become the property
of The American Humane Associa-
tion and none will be returned.

6. A facsimile of the entry form,
with all information ﬁlled in, must
be securely attached to the back of
the poster.

7. Entries must be packed ﬂat and
sent prepaid to The American Hu-
mane Association, 896 Pennsylvania
Street, Denver 8, Colorado.

8. All entries must reach AHA
headquarters no later than March 1,
1962.

Contact AHA if you have not yet
received complete contest informa-
tion.

Erastus

Judges deliberate over AHA poster contest entries.

Page 55

 




 

 

'.-.-. ..'.‘.~ ......

  - T h r o u g h if

-, _ T h e ' M

     ~ 7. —~ - % Ye a r s - ~-

..........
............

 

 

 

 

 

 

......... .‘ O
' n
l Accomplishments, conflicts, 1‘ 1
l . . -
fl victories—all have been recorded in y d
l ° 1 L
l the pages of the Review. Here, I
in capsule form, are the headlines i; 1
of the past half century. ; I
a t
i I
l

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1913: AHA publishes ﬁrst National
Humane Review . .
ambulances are great assets to
SPCAs . . . “Morals Court” opens in
Chicago . . .

AHA bids Boy Scout movement
godspeed . International Chil-
dren’s Congress convenes in Brussels
. . . Review. exposes conditions of
slavery in Philippines.

. Electric horse

1914: Automobile drivers should be
licensed says AHA . . . Mercy Sun-
day movement underway in United
States . . . Henry Ford establishes
bird preserve . . . AHA says danger
of cigarette evil cannot be exagger-
ated . . .

“Everybody is talking about the
great war which is being fought so
bitterly in Europe” . . . Humane soci-
eties urged to employ paid humane
agents.

1915: AHA condemns shipping
American horses for slaughter on
European battleﬁelds . . . New York

Page 56

City opens “ﬁnest children’s court
in the world” . . .

Mrs. Mary F. Lovell is chairman
of ﬁrstHumane Sunday and Be Kind
to Animals Week . . . AHA consid-
ers forming organization which
would do for animals in war time
what the Red Cross has been doing
for humans.

1916: US. government asks AHA
to organize a relief service for Army
animals . . . International Child Wel-
fare League formed . . .

Army horse relief work developed
by AHA will be known as the Amer-
ican Red Star Animal Belief.

1917: Two large ﬁlm manufactur-
ers will submit scenarios to The
American Humane Association for
approval before ﬁlming . . . Red
Star branches organized . . .

Review combines with National
Humane Journal, founded in 1870 . . .

“Our country a belligerent!” . . .
As US. prepares for war, the services
of Red Star are urgently needed . . .

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY

Drive for a million lied Star Animal
Relief members begins . .
campaigns to have anti-cruelty or-

ganizations exempt from income and

inheritance taxes . . . '
, «

A college boy writes home: Th?)
world is on ﬁre; l’m needed, Dad
. . . Red Star equips horses with gas
masks in war zone.

1918: Holland appeals for Red Star
aid . . . “Buy Liberty Bonds!” . -
Trotting Association to raise funds
for Red Star . . . Army veterinarians
authorized to accept Red Star aid . . .

Governors of Pennsylvania, SOUth
Carolina and Massachusetts pro-
claim Be Kind to Animals Week - - '
Child Labor bill introduced in COD'
gress . . . AHA joins campaign for
“social hygiene” . . .

“At last, the end has come; Ger-
many has given up her attempt at
world domination.”

1919. Red Star must go on; 900,000
cattle dying of exposure each year
. . . Poster contest featured as part

I962

.AHA‘:

 




ll

 

 

1918—General John ]. Pershing»
lent support to AHA’s wartime
activities when he accepted
Red Star Animal Relief ambu-
lances. Photo here was taken in
Mexico in 1916.

of BKA Week . . . Humane slaughter
movement renewed . . . AHA says
“Clean up the movies!”

1920: Review advocates “a square
deal for children born out of wed-
lock” . . . Red Star unites with stock-
men in demanding passage of legis-
lation for Federal control of public
domain . . .

“Horses prove only dependable
motive power” . . . Poultry associa-
tion joins AHA in attempt to elimi-
nate Easter chick cruelty . . .

AHA tells humanitarians to “hiss
cruel movies” . . . Air gun called seri-
ous menace . . . Prizes offered for
essays on humane trapping.

1921: Movie companies at work on
humanitarian ﬁlms . . . Queen Mary
bars feathers on hats . . Animal
cemeteries prove popular . . War
Department unveils war horse me-
morial prepared by Red Star
Railway Express takes interest in
bettering shipping conditions for
animals . . . Dimesavers for funds for
AHA get national distribution.

1922: Deadly narcotics increase
among school children . . . New York
Supreme Court says moving pic-
tures are immoral . . . Fourteen state
governors approve BKA Week . . .
Pennsylvania SPCA broadcasts ﬁrst
humane message over radio
Humane movement completes ﬁrst
century . . . AHA suggests uniform
marriage license system.

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY. I962

1923: Unexpected death of Presi-
dent Harding comes as a great
shock; President Coolidge becomes
AHA vice president . . . Italian pre-
mier encourages bullﬁght despite
prohibition by law.

1924: Packing ﬁrms begin to co-
operate with AHA efforts against
slaughter cruelties . . . National Edu-
cation Association recognizes impor-
tance of humane education . . .
Passing of a great humanitarian:
“Our leader has passed on but his

 

 

US. Army Photo

spirit will live forever”; tributes to
the memory of Dr. William Olin
Stillman pour in at AHA headquar-
ters . . .

American Meat Institute working
with AHA for humane slaughter
. . “Humane Society Leaders in
America” published by AHA.

1925: William O. Stillman F ounda-
tion established . . . Drive against
ear cropping makes headway; veter-
inary medical associations approve

Organ grinder’s monkey dis-

1930—AHA awards gold medal to Admiral Richard E. Byrd for his humane

treatment of sled dogs on Antarctic expedition.

Page 57

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘VD
o

appearing from America’s streets . . .
AHA organizes committee to ﬁght
non-killing steel traps.

1926: Horse Blinder goes into dis-
card . . . AHA says that our children
must be trained for motor age perils
. . . AHA halts public execution of
an elephant at Arkansas fair grounds

Uncropped dogs recognized at
Westminster . . . Humane trapping
bills win favor in New York and
Kentucky . . . Fiftieth annual meet-
ing of AHA held.

1927: American cartoonists praise
AHA poster contest . . . New York
theatres ordered to “clean up or
clean out” . . .

Movies oust bullﬁght as number
one entertainment in Mexico . . .
“The friend of defenseless children”,
Elbridge T. Gerry, dies.

1928: One dog for every ten hu-
mans . . . $10,000 prize offered by
AHA for the invention of a humane
trap . . . “The present downward
trend of the bond and stock market

 

Through the Years, cont.

 

 

mj‘f‘.

xvii

ﬁx “ ~. /—
“*MW ’1’ {—51 " 4y
1 ‘”‘~\ ”Whine. “L."

It

  
 
 
  
   

 

 
  

"”‘”""""’/%, \\\‘ 1r i J 9'?»
DON’T STOP-IT agh‘w I?" '
WAS ONLY A DOG ' at?

l
\
x

\

..-"'
_ ' . ~e

is

\\1}‘ i

u
3
\\

\\\

iii“ . t
its:

Il-Uu
. .

 

1933—Cartoonists lambast automobile drivers who hit animals and run.
This one, entitled “A Roadside Tragedy,” was by Harry Stillman

has alarmed many investors” . . . A
new type of car, improving on earlier
designs, invented to reduce livestock
losses in rail transportation . . . Re-
view tells readers to “support your
own humane society ﬁrst.”

1929: Railway Express issues new

l936—AHA applauds J. Edgar Hoover and his G-Men for wonderful work
in reducing criminal activity in the United States. (Ten years later Hoover
went on record blaming parents’ laxity for rise in juvenile crime rate.)

 

Page 58

W

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY

regulations for poultry coops . . .
Electrical stunning of food animals
demonstrated by Armour Packing
Company; Swift is developing a
similar device .

Radio carries humane sermon
across the continent . . . New York
Governor Franklin D. Roosevelt
Signs anti-cropping bill during BKA
Week; pen used by Roosevelt auc-
tioned by AHA to highest bidder . . .
“Let horses be horses”, demands
AHA; abolish cruel tail customs . . .
Humane movement ﬁghts against
the selling of babies. '

1930: The Wall Street slump iS a
stumbling block in AHA financing

. Massachusetts passes anti-stee
trap law . . . American Fondouk in
Morocco opened . . . Child beater
sentenced to six vears in workhouse.

1931: AHA condemns nicking
horses’ tails . . . AHA trap collection
receives English man trap used
years ago . . . Red Star aids drought
region . . .

Federal program to conserVe Wﬂd‘
life considered bv Congress . - °
Ella G. Killough' Memorial Fund
established; AHA to receive $1,000

I962

 

M

 




       
 

 

 

 

 

annually . . . Old age retirement for
humane workers; AHA takes epoch-
making step '. . . Child cruelty case
stirs nation; girl said to have been
imprisoned four years in a closet.

1932: “Gangster’s guns are one of
the biggest police problems” . .
U.S. maternity death rate highest
of 22 countries . . Kidnapping of
the Lindbergh. baby incites nation

SPCA refuses animals for labora—
tory experimentation . . Humane
Society of Missouri first to use radio
equipped cars . Humanitarians
condemn live animals in movie ad—
vertising.

1933: “Keep the bullﬁght Off the
screen!” . . . AHA protests dropping
animals from airplanes . . . Humane
societies struggle in the depression
era . . .

AHA reiterates policy of unity
among humane workers . . Lurid
movie titles condemned.

1934:, “Supervise country girls be-
coming city domestics” . . . Orphans
should have equal rights . . . “Let’s
stop all this war nonsense and get
down to work to improve interna-
tional relations” . . .

Be Kind to Animals Week now a
national institution . . Amrita Is—
land humane conference established.

1935: BKA Week posters cover the
nation AHA condemns ﬁre—
works in the hands of unsupervised
children . . . Under broad interpre-
tation of state law, mock bullﬁght
forbidden in California . . . AHA’s

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY.

l938—AHA gets a home of its own. Wm. O. Stillman
Memorial opens in Albany 14 years after his death.

1938—W. E. Sanderson, director of AHA’s Wildlife De-
partment, stacks up entries in humane trap contest.

 

l942—“Bambi” comes to life in a gay, warm and delightful full-length
motion picture by Walt Disney.

campaign for safe driving wins pub-
lic approval . . .

National Humane Review sent to
1,698 CCC camps in US. . . . AHA
suggests humane societies adopt
pension plan for employees in lieu
of Social Security which excludes
non-proﬁt and charitable organiza-
tions.

1936: A dog makes Social Register
for the ﬁrst time in history . . . AHA
introduces plan to prevent cruelty to
animals in motion pictures .
RSPCA urges League of Nations to
bring animal protection under its
jurisdiction . AHA appeals to
the world to stop polluting the seas.

1937: Thousands of animals res-
cued in ﬂood area by American Red
Star Animal Relief; AHA decides
there is permanent need of Red Star
. . . Connecticut orphanage scandal
revealed . . . New York outlaws “gin

weddings”.

1938: AHA offers motion picture
film for use during BKA Week for
the ﬁrst time . . . AHA president
addresses RSPCA meeting . . . Hu-
mane agent manual published . . .
AHA warns against locking animals
in closed automobiles WPA
called “unfair” to beavers.

1939: Horse killed in 73-foot leap

I962 Page 59

  




   

Through the Years, cont. ‘1“

 

 

 

1
E
l s
for humane movement dealing with 1942: Red Star executives meet to E
motion pictures . . . mobilize . . . Hawaiian Humane d
. .. Bird life faces worst threat in Society does herorc 10b 1n handling S
1 A I three decades as more and more animal victims Of Pearl Harbor . .

A species are massacred for millinery Dog flood shortage possrble . . . t

w . . . .. ». . . . Hearst newspapers join AHA in De‘inquency Increases I . . AHA
H during ffrlmmg Of Jesset Jamesi protesting motion picture cruelty to says 110 meatless days If we use E
} stgrm ,0 {protestSOgggmi anlma animals. an ounce of prevention in elimi- (
l a use in ms, ’ mencans nating hvestock waste. 1

1—!

I ‘ sign petition protesting animal
‘ A cruelty ' - ° Donald Duck and Mickey 1941: Complete accord reached be- 1943: Manufacture Of dog food
It 1 Mouse join the humane cause dur— tween AHA and Motion Picture curtailed . . . AHA stands staunchly
. g ‘ ing BKA Week ' ° ' Producers of America—AHA be- against growing trend of encouraging _
l l 3 AHA sends representative to comes only organization to be named hatred of our enemies and racial ani- , 1
HOHYWOOdé Richard C' Craven to speciﬁcally in Motion Picture Code mosity . . . “Let’s exercise reasonable :
fUIﬁH AHA program to cover movie . , . control over the country’s pet popu- ‘ .
problem - - - AHA appeals to Con- English animal welfare societies lation,” says AHA . . . ‘
gress—“No American horses for bel- appeal to AHA for aid . . . Interna- BKA Week features ﬁlm telling
l ligerents, in the event 0f war in tional conditions make holding of about President Franklin D. Roose-
Europe. annual AHA meeting impossible; velt and his dog, “Fala” . . . Judge
convention cancelled . . . American Ben B. Lindsey, originator of chil-
1940: Children’s Division repre- Red Star Animal Relief plans for dren’s court procedure, dies . . .

 

 

sentatives meet at fourth White possible war . . . “Lassie Come Home”, a delightful
| House Conference . . . AHA offers War is here! motion picture, is released.
ll supervisory and consultative serv-
l ices free to motion picture pro- .. _ Frgrzfclfn P‘ Roosevelt Library Photo
3‘ ducers . . . Running W in horse falls h H " ‘

3, shown on ﬁlm condemned . . . Rich-
ard C. Craven becomes sole agent

 

A 1942—F or rescuing his cocker

spaniel from the explosion-rocked

[ . aircraft carrier, Lexington, Rear

; ‘ Admiral F. C. Sherman (left) re-

; a. ceived AHA gold medal. Sydney
‘ - H. Coleman is at right.

 

1945—“Fala’s master has gone away;”—>
,1 Nation mourns death of President
ii Roosevelt.

Page 60 THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY

I962

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




CO

to

 

 

1944: “SS George T. Angeli” and
“SS J. S. Hutchinson” 10,000 ton
Liberty Ships, follow “SS Henry
Bergh” (launched in 1943) on the
seas . . . AHA urges humane soci-
eties to carry on despite loss of
many valuable employees to the
draft or defense plants . . . 50¢ dog
saves Coast Guardsman’s life .

Horses get more food after Allies
take North Africa . . . wartime scar-
city of food affecting cats . . . Red
Star raises funds for humane soci-
eties in liberated Italy . . . AHA re-
names annual poster contest “Ani-
mals in Art”.

1945: Societies plan post-war ani-
mal shelters . . . William S. (Bill)
Hart, noted motion picture ﬁgure,
gives $100,000 for animal shelter . . .

New York and Illinois become
first to be enrolled in Review’s honor
roll of states prohibiting the sale of
Easter chicks . . . AHA announces
humane, slaughter campaign to be
resumed as soon as war in the Paciﬁc
is won . . .

The victory is won—“Our hearts
are full of gratitude to God Who has
brought success to our armed forces.”

1946: AHA obtains War Shipping
Administration promise to ship GI
pets home on fee basis . . . AHA pro-
tests use of animals in atomic bomb
tests . . . Review selected as one of
top 100 magazines (of a total 5,982
published in U.S.) for high school
libraries . . . W. T. Grant stores ban
sale of dyed Easter chicks . . . AHA
develops regional ﬁeld service.

1947: Special BKA Week broadcast
carried nationally by CBS . . . Horse
endurance races condemned . . .
Man bites dog, makes news at Rich-
mond, Va.

1948: “75 per cent of animals lived
through atom bomb blastings” . . .
Domestic pets overseas hardhit by
food scarcity . . . Gen. MacArthur
explains restrictions of military pets
. . . Civil Air Patrol offers services
to Red Star . . . Review forced by
mounting costs to increase subscrip-
tion rates . . AHA afﬁliates pro—
tected 50,000 children during the
year.

1949: Guns and sling shots banned

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY. I962

in Santa Fe . AHA ﬁghts dog
seizure bills; cruel legislative pro-
posals demand nationwide oppo-
sition . . . AHA launches new humane
education program; service devel-
oped for local societies.

1950: AHA studies decompression
chamber to see if it is improvement
over other methods of euthansia . . .
AHA introduces anti-bullﬁghting bill
in Congress . . .

New York water shortage imperils
horses . AHA creates advisory
committee for Children’s Division.

1951: Animals take the spotlight in
Hollywood; Picture Animal Top Star
of the Year (PATSY) Awards estab-
lished to honor humanely trained
and handled animal actors . . . “We
must be ready for possible war
attack” . . . AHA ﬁghts against road-
side zoos . . . Diamond Jubilee con-

vention to be in Cleveland, site of
AHA’s founding.

1952: AHA helps “Rhubarb” make
a movie . . . AHA and TV officials
confer on animals . Emergency
Animal Relief saves hundreds of ani-
mals in the greatest rampage in the
history of the mighty Missouri River

AHA launches new publication,
Shelter Shoptalk . Killing of
Korean war dogs protested
Effort to eliminate trapping cruelties
renewed.

1953: Florence Maher, long-time
AHA ofﬁce manager, retires . . . AHA

 

1944—“Anastasia,” better known as
Annie, appoints herself official “AHA
Cat.”

plans move to Denver, Colorado,
from Albany, New York . . . Special
AHA committee established to study
slaughter cruelties . AHA pre-
pares pamphlet for Girl and Boy
Scout badges.

1954: Bi-centennial anniversary of
Richard Martin celebrated . . . Tele-
vision needs a Code, too, says AHA
. . . Open house held at new Denver
AHA headquarters . . . Review be-
comes bi-monthly magazine.

1955: Senator Hubert H. Hum—
phrey introduces humane slaughter

l945—Although gas masks for horses had been used during first World War,

it was not until 1945 that gas masks were widely used by dogs.

 

U.S. Army Photo

Page 6|

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

bill in Senate for AHA . . . Humane
leaders attend advisory conference
in Denver.

1956: AHA revitalizes Emergency
Animal Relief . . . New methods
urged for slaughter industry . . .
AHA participates in conference
of national dog experts regarding the
problem of postmen being bitten by
dogs . . . Remington humane stunner

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  

Page 62

on the market; AHA commends ﬁrm
. . . Children’s Division releases re—
port of nationwide protective serv-
ices survey . . . -

AHA obtains court rulings which
prohibit any humane organization
from using any name employmg the
words “American Humane Soc1ety
or “National Humane”.

1957: Federal slaughter bill intro-
duced in the House of Representa-
tives for AHA by W. R. Poage . . .
AHA representatives attend London
meeting to discuss international
organization for the prevention of
cruelty . . .

Humane trap award now $20,000
. . . Children’s Division testiﬁes be-
fore House subcommittee on juvenile
delinquency . . . Congress adjourns
without acting on slaughter bill . . .
AHA awards “Seal of Approval” for
humane handling and slaughtering of
meat animals for ﬁrst time to Seitz
Packing Co., Missouri and Hoerter
and Son, Kentucky.

1958: Humane slaughter becomes
reality when HR 8508 is signed into

(-1951—“Francis,” the talking mule

who attended 1949 AHA convention,
wins ﬁrst PATSY Award presented
by the Association to top animal
actors.

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY

 

Through the Years, cont.

law . . . llumanitarians honor C011-
gressmen as AllA presents Special
awards to Humphrey and Poage for
their activities in the humane slau h.
ter campaign . USDA Advisory
Committee on Humane Slaughter
meets; AHA represented on Com-
mittee.

Review wins two awards in Inter.
national Council of Industrial Edi-
tors competition . AHA estab.
lishes PATSY Award for television
animal actors.

1959: Pneumatic stunner for hu-
mane dispatching of meat animals
developed; Thor manufactures de-
vice . . . Uniform standards for the
practical supervision of rodeo ani-
mals prepared by AHA and Rodeo
Cowboys’ Association . . . AHA re-
ports on what’s being done about
humane education in our schools . ..
International Society for the Protec-
tion of Animals founded by AHA
and RSPCA.

1960: Nation decries trend toward
animal experimentation in schools
. . . “Help us to Help Them” is one of
greatest BKA \Veek themes in his-
tory . . . Frank (lonibear honored for
designing humane muskrat trap . . .

AHA and allied-interest organiza-
tions form permanent committee to
prevent animal mishandling in trans-
portation . . . AHA Hollywood ofﬁce
marks 20 years of service to ﬁlmdom’s
animal actors . . . AHA creates Dia-
mond Service Pin Award for humani-
tarians who have, been active for 50
or more years as volunteers.

1961: AHA expands field service;
newly-created regional Service
Councils serve as AHA-society lial-
son . . . Societies urged to Prepare
now for the passage of humane
slaughter legislation in home states

AHA Cuban afﬁliate taken over
by revolutionarv forces . . . Water
P011ution hit . American Humane
Academy introduced at annual 0011'
vention.

(-1957—For humane slaughtering .Of

all meat animals, AHA awards”Its
ﬁrst all species “Seal of Approval to
Paulus Market.

I962

 




lu-
als
le-
he
ni-
,eo

but

[A

Id
)15
of

ror

to

CC
IS

9T3-

ii-

50

61'
er
16

of

its

 

Kindness
Round

 

SOMEWHERE IN KENYA, animals by
the hundreds are dying of thirst. In
Belgium, a society needs ﬁnancial
help to erect a new animal shelter.

The tortoises of the Galapagos
Islands in the Republic of Ecuador
face extinction. Seals in large num-
bers are being brutally killed in
Uruguay.

Funds are needed by the humane
movement in Lebanon to print and
distribute leaﬂets on the proper care
of animals. Immediate assistance is
urgently solicited to save the wild-
life of Central America. And in East
Africa aid is requested to promote
the humane slaughter of food ani-
mals.

These are just a few of the prob-
lems which have come to the atten-
tion of the International Society for
the Protection of Animals (ISPA)
since last May. There were many
others.

. It is significant that peoples in na-

tions representing ﬁve continents
should turn to ISPA for help. It
indicates not only the need for an
international organization but, also,
the hope that ISPA will be an active
leader in preventing and correcting
abuses to, and mistreatment of, ani-
mals the world over.

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY. I962

The International Society for the
Protection of Animals is just over
two years old. It was form-ally incor-
porated in the District of Columbia
on November 19, 1959.

Although its formal existence is
short, planning for ISPA began in
1954. In 1956 a joint committee was
created by The American Humane
Association and the Royal SPCA of
London, England. Several meetings
of this joint committee took place
and by the time of incorporation, a
framework of activity had been de-
veloped and was ready to be put
into effect.

At its ﬁrst membership meeting in
May, 1961, ISPA introduced a prac-
tical program of services.

Already in action is the interna-
tional campaign—modeled after The
American Humane Association’s pro-
gram in the United States—against
cruelty to animals in motion pic-
tures. Extension of this program is
an immediate ISPA aim.

A second campaign, also now un-
derway, is the introduction of hu-
mane slaughter methods in coun-
tries such as Australia, New Zealand,
Kenya, Turkey and Jamaica where
an interest in this subject has al-
ready been indicated. ISPA expects
to reach into other areas regarding
humane slaughter in the future.

The calling of an international
conference on humane education is
another activity which ISPA hopes
will be of far-reaching importance.
Invitations to attend the conference
at the Alvo-rd Wildlife Sanctuary,
Lake Winnipesaukee, New Hamp-
shire, june 17-23, 1962 have been
mailed to ISPA affiliates outside the
United States. Member societies in
this country, also, are invited to at-
tend and participate.

Additional future ISPA activities
touch on a number of subjects.

ISPA is investigating the possi-
bility of arranging for a display of
international humane work at the
New York World Fair in 1964-65.

ISPA is consulting with the United
States Department of Agriculture to
see if any effective liaison can be
made for cooperative activities in
various parts of the world.

Another ISPA goal is to obtain the
cooperation of member organizations
to publicize and solicit members for
ISPA in publications and other mail-
ing pieces.

A committee has been formed

which will study and develop accept-
able standards for the international
shipment of birds and animals. The
treatment of wildlife in its natural
habitat—and the elimination of cruel
methods of capturing and killing this
wildlife—is another vital interest of
ISPA.

Carlton E. Buttrick, president of
the International Society for the Pro-
tection of Animals, said recently at
the conclusion of a report on ISPA
progress: “I believe that ISPA can
become a symbol of Kindness ’Round
the World.”

That others agree with Buttrick is
evidenced in the fact that 44 animal
protective societies in more than 20
countries have already affiliated as
charter members of the new organi—
zation.

As ISPA support and membership
increases, so to a proportionate de-
gree will the potentiality of ISPA as
a world movement increase.

it it if

The objects and purposes of the
International Society for the Pro-
tection of Animals, as set forth in
the Articles of Incorporation, are as
follows:

To promote effective means for
the prevention and the relief of
suffering to animals throughout the
world;

To maintain effective liaison
between, and to seek cooperation
with localized organizations having
similar objectives;

To provide facilities for affiliation
of all approved animal welfare soci-
eties and individuals interested in
animal welfare;

To organize international and re-
gional conferences;

To seek recognition and repre-
sentation on suitable international
bodies;

To study international and na—
tional legislation relating to animal
welfare and to promote international
efforts for the protection of animals;

To provide means whereby mem-
bers can be informed concerning the
international aspects of animal wel-
fare, including humane education;

To do any and all lawful acts and
things which may be necessary, use—
ful, suitable, desirable or proper for
the protection of animals.

 

Portions of this article are based on a report
presented by ISPA President Carlton E. But-
trzclc to delegates attending the 85th annual
conventzon of T American Humane Associa-
th’n, Denver, Colorado, October 18-20, 1961.

Page 63

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Children ’s

 

HE PARTICULAR OBJECTIVE of the

Children’s Division of The Amer-
ican Humane Association is the pro-
motion of more and better Child
Protective Services around the coun-
try.

Those who are engaged in the
ﬁeld of Child Protection have great
convictions about the need for such
programs: conviction about the
value of this program to the com-
munity; conviction about the fact
that without Child Protective Serv-
ices no community is providing a
full range of services for people in
need.

Why do we feel this strongly
about Child Protection? What is
there about Child Protective Serv-
ices that make them different from
other services to children in the
community?

To begin with, the focus of Child
Protection is the strengthening of
the home—the making of a good
home out of a home where children
are the innocent victims of neglect
brought about by parental inade-
quacy or emotional disorders which
create handicaps for parents and re-
duce their capacity for performing
their jobs as parents.

We recognize that in most in-
stances neglect is not the result of
a deliberate act on the part of the
parents. Rather, neglect is a by-
product of the parental inability to
live up to their responsibility as
parents.

Beyond that, we also recognize
that if we truly want to help children
in the deteriorated home we need to
do something to strengthen that
home.

We found out a long time ago that

Page 64

Its activities

the removal of a child from that type
of home does not truly help the
child. Regardless of how bad a home
may be, children form ties of affec-
tion. They cling tenaciously to these
parents who, weak as they may be as
parents, possess qualities which cre-
ate loyalty in their children.

Therefore, the basic responsibility
of Child Protective Services is to
improve the capacity of these par-
ents to live up to parental obliga-
tions.

What about other welfare serviCes
in the community, you may ask.
Why are they not doing this job?

The answer is simple. In most
other settings where services are
extended to people, the agency sits
and waits for the person who needs
help to come in and ask for it.

Can you imagine a parent coming
to an agency and saying: “I am cruel
to my children”?

Protective Services on the other
hand are very much like the ﬁre
department. The ﬁre department an-
swers alarms. They don’t inquire as
to who makes or pulls the alarm. If
the alarm is out, they are on the job.

This is the role of Protective Serv-
ices!

Because these parents are dis-
organized, troubled and deteriorated
—-because they need help and need
it desperately—the community must
have a service available, ready and
willing to help them. So the Protec-
tive agency waits for a report or a
complaint that says, in effect, “Some-
thing ought to be done about the
Smith children. Theirs is a sad case
of neglect. Please go out and see
what can be done.”

Then the Child Protective Agency

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY

 

Division

are many!

goes out on the job and helps the
family.

Now, what about the structure in
terms of what is available in Pro-

tective Services around the country?

In 1956, The American Humane
Association conducted a study to
evaluate the extent of available pro-
tective services around the country.
The report of that study was pub-
lished in “Child Protective Services
in the United States.”

I ‘HE SURVEY SHOVVED that a vast
.l majority of the large urban com-
munities had no Protective Services
whatsoever. It showed that a total
of 12 states had no responsibility for
protecting children in any manner.
It showed that in some of the states,
despite what programs were said to
exist, no service of any kind was
performed for the children it was
designed to help. .

This is why the Children’s Div1-
sion recognized a great need to do
interpretation—to inform communl-
ties and make them aware of the
fact that here is a much needed and
basic service.

Thus, we embarked on a program
to produce new literature and new
materials designed to educate com-
munities to the values of Child PIO-
tective Services in terms of its pre-
vention of neglect and delinquency-

Over the last several years we de—
veloped a total of 19 publications.
All are on Child Protective ServiceS-
Through these, and other AHA Chil'
dren’s Division pamphlets, agencies
are helped to recognize the speClEll
skills that must be developed by
workers in this ﬁeld.

(What kind of workers are We

I962

 




\< 3—. m "M .

(D

 

talking about?

The ﬁeld has generally accepted
over the last 25 years that to do the
kind of job required in Protective
Services, we must have persons
trained in the ﬁeld of social work.

These are also persons who have
acquired skills in terms of helping
people change their behavior—be-
havior which may be damaging to
others, particularly to children.)

HE AHA CHILDREN’S DIVISION also
Tcommunicates with the commu-
nities in ways other than through
publications.

To the agencies already in the
ﬁeld we provide consultation to im-
prove the quality of services. And
here is an important point, for we
do this not alone, but in cooperation
with other national agencies. We
have worked with the Child Welfare
League of America; the National
Council on Crime and Delinquency;
the Juvenile Court Judges Associa-
tion and the Children’s Bureau of
the United States.

Consultation involves a lot of work
and a lot of time. A large number of
requests come to us in the form of
correspondence from all over the
country—from courts and probation
services, from public welfare agen-
cies, from voluntary or private social
agencres.

These agencies write and ask spe-
ciﬁc questions: “What can we do
about getting Protective Services?”
“How can we organize them?” “How
do we set up a protective program?”

These are problems which require
consideration and mature judgment.
They require answers which are
based upon proper deliberation in
the light of knowledge about com-
munities and their limitations. To
answer these questions is a time
consuming job requiring skill, tact
and understanding.

Other requests for consultation re-
quire and seek a personal visit and
study in the community. Here the
AHA Children’s Division may deal
directly with the leaders in the com-
munity who are expressing concern
about the needed service. Or we may
deal with agencies which ask us to
examine what they are doing and to
advise and recommend changes in
POIiCy or program in keeping with
national standards.

Some of these visits take us far
aﬁeld from the ofﬁce. The Division
has visited all corners of the United

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY. I962

States. All of these visits take time
and expense. But fortunately, we
have adopted a policy which is ac-
cepted and respected by those who
seek our help. Under this policy our
expenses are paid and frequently
an additional honorarium is given us
in recognition of value received
through the consultation visit.

Another area in which the Chil-
dren’s Division has served commu-
nities at large is through state con-
ferences.

As part of the continuing process
within the Social Welfare ﬁeld to
improve the understanding of proc-
ess and techniques in all areas of
welfare services, each of the states
has created a state conference. The
purpose of these conferences is to
provide a forum for social workers
and interested citizens where issues
may be examined and discussed. The
state conference also provides a me-
dium for the exchange of informa-
tion and the acquisition of new
learning through participation and
attendance at study courses and
institutes.

The growing interest in Child Pro-
tective Services has prompted a
wave of requests seeking our leader-
ship at various state conferences.
The growing number of such re-
quests is becoming an increasing
burden because of time involved and
because of travel.

Here, again, AHA has been fortu-
nate in that in all but a few of these
state meetings where we have con-
ducted study courses and institutes,
we have been paid expenses and an
honorarium.

N EXAMPLE OF Children’s Divi-
A sion activity in this phase of its
work was a visit to the midwest last
fall. The Division attended a four—
day meeting, at Cleveland, of the
Ohio Welfare Association where we
were asked to lead the study course
on Child Protective Services. Just
prior to that we gave a similar course
in Chicago for the Illinois Welfare
Association. And following the
Cleveland meeting we visited Kala-
mazoo, Michigan; Louisville, Ken-
tucky and Lincoln, Nebraska.

Last spring we conducted similar
courses at the nine-state Regional
Conference in Milwaukee, and again
at the Northwest Regional Confer-
ence at Seattle in which seven states
participated.

This is a recognition of the role

which The American Humane As-
sociation is playing through its pro-
gram in the Children’s Division. We
are recognized as the standard set-
ting agency in the ﬁeld. And as the
experts in the ﬁeld we are called
upon to provide consultation and
leadership to help interpret, stimu-
late and' promote better understand-
ing and more services for neglected
children.

Let us return for a moment to the
publications produced by the AHA
Children’s Division.

I 5 EACH OF THESE publications is

prepared and comes off the
press, it is made available for im-
mediate distribution. We turn out
12,000 copies of each new pamphlet.
By following our schedule of four
new publications per year, this
means a total annual printing of
50,000 copies. These materials are
being used so extensively that ﬁve
of our earlier publications have al-
ready required a second printing
and two others will soon require
reprinting.

This is an indication of the fact
that these materials are in great
demand. They are being sought by,
and sent to, every state in the Union.
We have served at least 12 foreign
countries in recent years. The Inter—
national Conference on Social Wel-
fare, which holds a biennial confer-
ence, has for its last two conferences
requested 500 copies of our publi-
cations for distribution and exhibit
during the conference.

One last point. In an effort to pro-
mote the objectives we are trying to
achieve, and as an added effort to
produce additional literature in the
ﬁeld, we have created a contest (See:
National Humane Review, Novem-
ber-December, 1961) designed to
accomplish two things.

The ﬁrst is to provide more inter-
pretation and to stimulate more in—
terest in Child Protective Services.
The second, as already stated, is to
produce new material and new liter-
ature to serve the ever-growing ﬁeld
of Child Protective Service.

The foregoing article is based on a report by
Vincent DeFra'ncis, AHA Children’s Division
director, to delegates attending the 85th AHA
convention. October 18-20, 1961.

Page 65

 




 

  
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

Relief

In all disasters . . .
In all areas

In times of disaster, pet owners experience a
deep concern for their animals. To these
people, an important question is: “Who
will help my pet?" Emergency Animal
Relief, a department of The American
Humane Association, stands ready

to offer them aid and assistance-

 

 

 




e a
ese
fho
nal
:an
Idy

Ce-

 

ISASTERS DON’T space themselves
conveniently in time and place. They
have an utter disregard for geog-
raphy. And they never touch the
same number of people each time.

Emergency and disaster agencies,
such as Civil Defense and Red Cross,
stand ready to help humans struck
by disaster. But because tragedy
isn’t planned, these emergency agen-
cies are not staffed nor equipped to
deal with the animals also caught
up by disaster.

Out of a basic concern for animals
comes the realization that animal
welfare is basic to the welfare of
America’s human population —from
food supplies to public safety.

When civilization plunged into the
ﬁrst World War in 1916, modern
warfare was unknown. Animals bore
the brunt of transportation and labor
activities. Great numbers of horses,
mules, dogs, etc., were rushed to the
battleﬁelds to work and suffer along
with humans.

Some sort of aid had to be offered
to care for sick and wounded ani-
mals. But the agencies set up for
humans were too busy.

The most logical source of aid was
The American Humane Association,
the national federation of humane
organizations in the United States
and Canada.

At the suggestion of the then US.
Secretary of War, Newton D. Baker,
AHA established American Red Star
Animal Relief to supplement govern-
ment efforts in providing practical
assistance to military animals. Plans
similar in tenor to those of the
American Red Cross were adopted
to render organized aid to injured
animals.i The War Department
offered cooperation.

Red Star provided drugs, medi-
cines, bandages and instruments
Wherever they were needed during
World War I. It supplied motor-
cycles with side cars for camps where
veterinarians had long distances to
cover. In France, it had eleven motor
veterinary ambulances in Army serv-
ice. It published a booklet on “First
Aid to Horses” with more than 80,000
C0pies requested by West Point,
Army posts, veterinarians and others.

General Pershing referred to Red
Star as “great humanitarian work”
and sympathetic people everywhere
mined in by saying “well done.”

The AHA’s American Red Star
Animal Relief did its work quietly,

 

 

Disasters may occur anywhere and anytime. Agencies devoted to giving
aid to human victims in times of stress are often unable to assist animals.
And that’s when EAR is so urgently needed!

 

Pictured is one of many rescue centers for animals in England durin
WWII set up by the RSPCA with aid from Emergency Animal Relief,

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY, I962 Page 67

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

but efficiently. It enrolled a mem-
bership of more than 80,000 humani-
tarians made few drives for public
ﬁnancial support. It provided aid
only in emergencies which the War
Department was not equipped to
handle—and those were many.
Having proved its place in war,
Red Star geared itself for civilian
animal relief following cessation of
hostilities. Many records for prompt

handling of large-scale animal emer—

gencies were established.

At the outbreak of World War II,
the Army Veterinary Corps was ade—
quately equipped to handle such ani—
mals as might be used and Red Star
turned to organizing for the care of

Emergency Animal Relief, cont.

civilian’s animals in event of attack.
More than 400 individuals were
commissioned as animal aides, ready
to serve in any emergency. Civilian
Animal Defense programs were
launched to protect property and
human life. Millions of copies of “Air
Raid Precautions for Animals” and
“Wartime Diet for Pets” were dis—
tributed.

The American Humane Associa-
tion realized the magnitude of ani—
mal problems in this country during
both war and peace. Red Star had
been originally established to aid
animals in war. It had a necessary
place in peace.

Therefore, The American Humane
Association recently re-organized
and revitalized its Emergency Ani-
mal Relief (EAR) Department.

Since then, EAR has established
many records for prompt handling
of large scale animal emergencies.
Examples include saving, through
the immediate furnishing of food,
30,000 elk in the Yellowstone Park

 

area; feeding starving deer in Alaska,
care of animals following an earth-
quake in California and ﬁnancial
support following an earthquake in
Chile. Emergency Animal Relief
agents last year rescued flood ma-
rooned animals in Washington State
and went into the devastated areas
of Texas and Louisiana to provide
on-the-spo-t assistance and service
coordination during the recent on-
slaught of Hurricane Carla.

With the increase of world ten-
sions, EAR has launched an acceler-
ated program to provide care and
handling ()f animals in the event of
a national emergency.

Today, whenever and wherever
animals are in distress as the result
of any disaster, Emergency Animal
Relief will step in with the help
that is needed; professional animal-
handlers, fully equipped, are read
to assume full responsilﬁlity, thus
relieving the other agencies which
are primarily concerned with the
human side of rescue work.

 

 

KABLE PRINTING C

SUBSIDIARY OF WESTERN PUBLISHING
Mount Morris, Illinois

CONGRA TULA TIONS

to The American Humane Association
on the Golden Anniversary of

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW

As your printer for over 33 years,
we extend our sincere wish for your

continued success

OMPANY

COMPANY, INC.

 

 

Page 68

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY

I962

 




.2
Q

l .

 

OOVOMHPCNNH

PPbPl-PQQCNCNCNCNCNCNCNCNCNNNNN[\DNNNNNHHHHp—HHHHH
Nl—‘OCOOVOMPPCNNl—‘OOOONOmr-PCN[\JP—‘OOOONOUIl-PCNNb—IOO

 

,4;
(N

I

Annual Meetings of

T be A merican H n ma ne Association

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Date Location President No. Date Location President

1877 Cleveland, Ohio E. L. Brown 44 1920 Omaha, Neb. W. O. Stillman

1878 Baltimore, Md. E. L. Brown 45 1921 Philadelphia, Pa. W. O. Stillman

1879 Chicago, Ill. E. L. Brown 46 1922 St. Paul, Minn. W. O. Stillman

1880 Philadelphia, Pa. E. L. Brown 47 1923 New York, N.Y. W. O. Stillman

1881 Boston, Mass. E. L. Brown 48 1924 Toronto, Canada W. K. Horton

1882 Buffalo, N.Y. E. L. Brown 49 1925 Toledo, Ohio W. K. Horton

1883 Washington, DC. E. L. Brown 50 1926 Portland, Ore. W. K. Horton

1884 Pittsburgh, Pa. J. G. Shortall 51 1927 Indianapolis, Ind. S. H. Coleman

1885 St. Louis, Mo. G. E. Gordon 52 1928 New Orleans, La. S. H. Coleman

1886 Cincinnati, Ohio G. E. Gordon 53 1929 St. Louis, Mo. S. H. Coleman

1887 Rochester, N.Y. G. E. Gordon 54 1930 Niagara Falls, N.Y. S. H. Coleman

1888 Toronto, Canada E. T. Gerry 55 1931 Grand Rapids, Mich. S. H. Coleman

1889 Louisville, Ky. E. L. Brown 56 1932 San Francisco, Calif. S. H. Coleman 1
1890 Nashville, Tenn. E. L. Brown 57 1933 Hartford, Conn. S. H. Coleman ‘
1891 Denver, Colo. L. H. Eaton 58 1934 Columbus, Ohio s. H. Coleman ‘
1892 Philadelphia, Pa. L. H. Eaton 59 1935 Washington, DC. S. H. Coleman l
1893 Chicago, Ill. J. G. Shortall 60 1936 Houston, Tex. S. H. Coleman l
1894 Evansville, Ind. J. G. Shortall 61 1937 Milwaukee, Wis. S. H. Coleman A
1895 Minneapolis, Minn. J. G. Shortall 62 1938 St. Louis, Mo. S. H. Coleman

1896 Cleveland, Ohio J. G. Shortall 63 1939 Albany, N.Y. S. H. Coleman

1897 Nashville, Tenn. J. G. Shortall 64 1940 Omaha, Neb. S. H. Coleman

1898 \Nashington, DC. J. G. Shortall 65 1941 New York, N.Y. S. H. Coleman

1899 Columbus, Ohio J. M. Brown 66** 1942 New York, N.Y. S. H. Coleman

1900 Pittsburgh, Pa. J. M. Brown 67*”< 1943 New York, N.Y. S. H. Coleman

1901 Buffalo, N.Y. J. M. Brown 68** 1944 New York, N.Y. S. H. Coleman

1902 Albany, N.Y. J. M. Brown 69>“< 1945 New York, N.Y. S. H. Coleman

1903 Cincinnati, Ohio J. M. Brown 70 1946 Columbus, Ohio R. F. Sellar

1904 St. Louis, Mo. J. M. Brown 71 1947 Albany, N.Y. R. F. Sellar

1905 Philadelphia, Pa. W. O. Stillman* 72 1948 New Orleans, La. R. F. Sellar

1906 Chicago, Ill. W. O. Stillman 73 1949 Detroit, Mich. R. F. Sellar

1907 Boston, Mass. W. O. Stillman 74 1950 Hollywood, Calif. R. F. Sellar

1908 New Orleans, La. W. O. Stillman 75 1951 Cleveland, Ohio R. F. Sellar**’*<

1909 St. Paul, Minn. W. O. Stillman 76 1952 Boston, Mass. Kerns Wright

1910 Washington, DC. W. O. Stillman 77 1953 Denver, Colo. Kerns Wright

1911 San Francisco, Calif. W. O. Stillman 78 1954 Atlanta, Ga. Kerns Wright

1912 Indianapolis, Ind. W. O. Stillman 79 1955 Grand Rapids, Mich. Kerns Wright

1913 Rochester, N.Y. W. O. Stillman 80 1956 Seattle, Wash. Kerns Wright

1914 Atlantic City, NJ. W. O. Stillman 81 1957 San Antonio, TeX. Kerns Wright

1915 St. Augustine, Fla. W. O. Stillman 82 1958 Miami Beach, Fla. Kerns Wright

1916 Cincinnati, Ohio W. O. Stillman 83 1959 Denver, Colo. C. W. Friedrichs

1917 Providence, RI W. O. Stillman 84 1960 Chicago, Ill. C. W. Friedrichs

1918 Chicago, Ill. W. O. Stillman 85 1961 Denver, Colo. a C. W. Friedrichs

1919 Norfolk, Va. W. O. Stillman _#i_!##ﬂL

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

*In 1904 Alberf Leffingwell was elecfed presidem‘, buf resigned lo become U.S. .Consul fo Russia.
Dr. Sfillman succeeded him and was presidenf af Hie lime of fhe 1905 convenhon.
**During fhe years 1942-45, because of World War II, fhe annual meefings were Iimifed lo cor-
7‘ i . . .
***€13lr1:ne RSSZS::SSe”ar died in December, 1951, Kerns Wrighf was appomfed fo fill fhe vacancy
and served as presidem‘ unfi/ a new elecfion could be held of fhe 1952 meefing.

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY, I962 Page 69

 




“I ”as.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Heroism

Awards

JOHN DOERFLINGER nearly gave his
life in 1900 to rescue a dog
trapped on the tracks of an elevated
railroad in New York City. Doer—
ﬂinger was badly injured and spent
many torturous days in serious con-
dition in a New York hospital.

Doerflinger’s heroic rescue re-
ceived wide publicity. The fact that
a man was prepared to lay down
his life for an animal caught the
fancy of newspaper readers.

At the same time Doerflinger
nearly gave up his life, The Ameri-
can Humane Association was in the
midst of holding its 1900 annual
meeting. Delegates to the conven—
tion wanted to somehow recognize
Doerﬂinger’s efforts.

Following a long discussion, the
Association appointed several mem-
bers to prepare a suitable medal to
be given by AHA in recognition of
heroic acts by humans towards ani-
mals. The first such medal was to
be awarded to John Doerflinger.

For nearly thirty years following
the 1900 AHA convention, medals
for heroism were occasionally
awarded to people who the Associa-
tion believed deserved some recog-
nition for outstanding deeds.

During that time, the. idea of
giving a medal for other contri-
butions to humanitarianism also
evolved. Gold medals were presented

Page 70

by the Association to people who in
some way forwarded the humane
cause, either through an invention
which lessened the cruel lot of ani-
mals, or by devoting themselves both
morally and ﬁnancially to the work
of the Association.

Because, however, The American
Humane Association did not have
available large funds of money dur-
ing its early years, these award
medals greatly taxed the treasury.

It was not until 1928, upon the
death of Mrs. Morris H. Vandegrift
of Philadelphia, that the Association
was able to present awards of recog-
nition on any standard basis.

Mrs. Vandegrift left a sum of
money to the Association to be ap-
plied to the purchase of medals in
recognition of acts of heroism to save
animals at the risk of personal danger
or sacrifice. Under the terms of her
bequest, similar awards were also
to be given to animals who saved
human lives.

A permanent awards committee
was established by AHA and gold,
silver and bronze medals were de-
signed. The medals bore the word
“Humanity.”

Over the years since 1928, these
awards have come to be known as
the William O. Stillman Awards in
honor of the Association’s great
leader.

 

Q- WEIMARANER dog, “Gretchen,” is
the most recent 1‘ecipient of a
William O. Stillman Award.

Gretchen was honored for her
devotion and bravery in defendin
her crippled master from wild ani-
mals during a seven-day desert
ordeal.

Ceremonies took place at the
Cameron School Auditorium in Bar-
stow, California, before the largest
crowd ever to see and attend this
type of awards presentation.

Gretchen received both the Wil-
liam O. Stillman Bronze Medal and
the Golden Nylabone Award.

The canine heroine’s ordeal be-
gan last July when her owner,
Ramon C. Miller of Fresno, ran out
of gas on a lonely road in the blazing
Mojave Desert south of Death Val-
ley, near the northern boundary of
Fort Irwin, an Army armored com-
bat training reservation.

Although Miller has an artiﬁcial
leg (he lost his leg in an automobile
accident some years ago), he and
Gretchen set out on foot for help.
After walking down the deserted
road for almost seven hours without
meeting anyone, they ﬁnally came to
a Sign which said “Springs.”

Following a path until about noon
of the next day, they did reach a
cave with a fresh water spring. The
cave was located in a remote area
of Fort Irwin.

Gretchen stayed at the cave with
her crippled master until, on the
seventh day, they were found by
two Fort Irwin safety inspectors,
Richard A. F riemoth and Philip M.
Denning. The two men had spotted
tracks in the sand and followed them
to the cave.

During the seven days, Gretchen

had fought off wild animals which

apparently considered the man and
dog to be helpless interlopers occu—
pying a drinking place. Gretchen,
although weakened from being en-
tirely without food during the pe-
riod, successfully defended her
master throughout the ordeal.

Says Miller: “I never would have
made it without Gretchen.”

The doctors at the Fort Irwin hos-
pital where Miller and his pet were
taken said that both were in remark-
ably good shape, although Miller
was covered with bruises and cuts all
over his body, even on the stump
of his missing leg. And Gretchen W81S

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY. I962

 




$130835

Edi—‘vw‘< CD 5"

D

LED—D

KI)

kU

VJVh—IF'S

 

cut, bruised and torn from her ﬁght-
ing with the wild animals.

Gretchen’s heroic feat was brought
to the attention of The American
Humane Association immediately
afterward by Mrs. Blanche Bay,
president of Barstow’s United Hu—
mane Society. (Fort Irwin is only
35 miles away from Barstow.)

On November 16, 1961, before a
packed auditorium, Gretchen was
dog-of—the-day. Attending the cere—
monies was James Jack, Jr., director
of The American Humane Associa-
tion’s Hollywood Ofﬁce.

Jack presented Gretchen with the
bronze medal and a certiﬁcate. He
noted that this was the ﬁrst bronze
medal to be awarded by AHA in
nearly ten years.

Mrs. Bay gave Gretchen the
Golden Nylabone Award, the third
one ever to be awarded. The Golden
Nylabone is an award for heroism,
created especially and only for dogs.
It is usually presented in conjunction
with the Stillman Award through the
courtesy of the Nylabone Corpora-
tion of Oklahoma City.

Gretchen also received other
prizes for her heroic deed. The Wei-
maraner Club of America, Southern
California Region, gave her a trophy
inscribed “F or F aithfulness and
Heroism The Calo Pet Food Com-
pany also presented her with a case

of dog food. ;

 

.n

Proudly wearing her Wm. O. Stillman Bronze Medal is Gretchen. With
her, I. to r., are James Jack, Jr., AHA Hollywood Ofﬁce; Mrs. Blanche
Bay, United Humane Society president; and Gretchen’s owner, Ramon C.
Miller.

tion ceremonies, Gretchen herself—
the mother of ﬁve puppies—had an
award to present to her rescuers,
F riemoth and Denning. She showed
her gratitude to the two men by
presenting each of them with one

of her puppies!

Barstow’s Mayor Ida K. Pleasant
attended the awards ceremonies and
praised the Humane Society for the
outstanding job it is doing in the
area. Numerous other local digni-
taries were also in attendance.

As a ﬁnal touch to the presenta-

 

UG DOGS EXTEND OUR CONGRATULATIONS AND GREETINGS TO YOU —-

 

 
  
   
 
 
   

_ T kt NATIONAL HUMANE
' REVIEW

“\oo 000/
W: ghﬁﬁWWAW

  

— W

OF SERVING THOSE LEAST
ABLE TO HELP THEMSELVES

AND WE THANK YOU FOR 50 YEARS
OF TENDING OUR NEEDS WHEN WE

 

 

We know how you wonderful people put your money
and your time where your hearts are, and how, during
all of those years, you did NOT "pass by on the other

side” when we were in distress.

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY.

N EEDED YOU MOST.

 
  
  

NYLABONE OORPORATION

P. 0. BOX 7222. OKLAHOMA CITY I2, OKLA.

I962 Page 7|

 




 
 
 

 
  

  
   
   
  

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

jade jawed

Volume File
DUST moor HOLDER

Smart, practical, economical—
here’s the perfect way to pre-
serve your copies of

THE NATIONAL
HUMANE REVIEW

Designed to hold up to 30 issues
(five years) of the Review, this
distinctive volume file is bound
in rich green Kivar and lettered
in lé-carat gold. Sturdy and at—
tractive for desk or library shelf,
the volume file keeps your copies
of The National Humane Review
clean, orderly and readily acces-

sible.
0

$2.50 Each
3for $7.00
6 for $13.00

Reasonably Priced
Carefully Packed
Sent Postpaid

Satisfaction Guaranteed

Or Money Refunded

-¢_-————_—————_—_—_—n—

Jesse Jones Box Corp.
P.O. Box 5120
Philadelphia 41, Pa.

Send me ........ volume files for
THE NATIONAL HUMANE RE-
VIEW. Enclosed find $ _______________

Name _________________________________________
Address _______________________________________
City ............................ Zone ________

State ___________________________________________

Page 72

 

 
    
 
   
 

;. w:
it.

 
   
 
  

 
   
 

_ _ _ '.V_V._ up;

 
 

  

 

 

     
 
 

_.__._._.~..__~_.__ __
\,

_._ __.__._- __.__.~....-__.
,M.

nﬂnafhsﬁrﬂkt*“:::"““

 

A view of the models of im-
proved cattle cars entered in
The American Humane Associa-
tion’s first international compe-

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JAN

_ _ "‘_" , v ll 'tlllllll

-_,_ + till illlllmltttt

N _ g" \
........ NM ““‘ ’72.»;
-:7:::_::::._‘~__—“::::::::::::é-————— , 11' EEEEEEE

- .. _‘ff"”“*"u——~f- f—i::f:i - - ;;::==:———

 

     
 

Hundreds of inventors created

ingenious and intriguing

   

designs for a humane

   

cattle car to be entered in . .

AHA’S

    
 
      
       
  
           
 
           
  
    

     

. : i 5%” ”-
E; "I

IIIII

€33

llllllllllllll F 7 \

 

 

 

  

  

ow In lﬂllll'lllll'vli..m y;

of Chi-
cago served as chief judge in the

contest which offered $5,000 in
prizes.

UARY-FEBRUARY, 1962

  

 




 

I THE AMERICAN Humane Associa-
tion came into being to alleviate the
terrible cruelties inﬂicted upon cattle
traveling from the West to the East.

Two years after it had been
formed, the Association had accom-
plished some headway in obtaining
the cooperation of those people in
charge of transporting cattle.

Despite this spirit of cooperation,
an urgent need still existed for an im-
proved cattle car in which animals
could lie down and be watered and
fed on their journey to the markets.

AHA was not alone in censuring
the already-existing cattle cars.
Many railroad companies were al—
ready doing research on the prob-
lem. But the Association wanted to
stimulate the research even more and
thus collected the sum of $5,000 to
be awarded to an inventor who
would create a modern and humane
cattle car.

The conditions of the AHA com—
petition were that the invention
would be. the full and complete prop-
erty of The American Humane Asso-
ciation; and the invention would be
offered without charge to any rail-
road company that would use it in
its livestock business.

No other specifications were pre-
scribed by AHA except that the
model be readily and cheaply adapt-
able to the cattle cars then in use.
The Association wisely reserved the
right to withhold any award if no
entry met the requirements.

The Association printed and dis-
tributed 1500 circulars announcing
the competition. All were used.

When the final count was in, 710
models and plans had been received
from 686 different competitors. A
large portion of the models and
drawings were very crude, but some
Were ﬁnely ﬁnished and executed.

Every state and territory in the
Union was represented except the
territories of Washington and New
Mexico. England, Russia and Swit-
zerland, as well as Canada, contrib—
uted. Illinois, Pennsylvania and New
York had the most entries.

Eight women from as many states
entered; a lad of 14 sent in a model;
and one model was submitted by a
man who said he’d never seen a rail—
road train in his life.

AHA hired two men who did noth-
ing but open packages—it took them
two months. (Not one out of 25 en—
tries had names on the outside of the
box, and all boxes were nailed as

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY. I962

“strongly as if they were never in-
tended to be opened”)

Some models had no descriptions;
a few were vague and indefinite; one
competitor included with his model
94 pages of closely-written manu-
script. The majority of entries, how-
ever, were explicit and easily under-
stood.

Many of the different models were
almost alike in construction and
looks. A notable example was the
case where two ladies—one from Chi-
cago and the other across country
—each sent a model identical to the
other except for the materials used
to construct them.

Each entrant in the contest re-
ceived a detailed report on the re-
sults of the testing of his model and
a word of commendation from the
judges.

Several models were not sent in
competition for the prize money.
Their owners felt the value of the
invention would be worth far more
on the open market. These inventors,
spurred to action by the AHA con-
test, wanted AHA’s opinion on their
cars. And the. Association tested and
reported on them all.

AHA’S total cost for the contest
amounted in all to about $650. No
rent had been asked for the contest
headquarters; the. judges received
nothing for their services.

But the results of the competition
were announced with reluctance.

“None. of the designs offered in
competition met the conditions of
the award,” reported the judges,
“and so, no competitor is entitled
to the prize.”

The judges further explained that
many of the best entries had in-
cluded ideas which had previously
been patented and to select any of
those would have resulted in a law
suit for AHA.

While not achieving the desired
results set out when the contest was
first made public, the judges believed
that the competition did do much
toward improving cattle cars. “Since
the publication of the offered prize,
and mainly incited by it,” they said,
“several improved stockcar compa-
nies have been or are being formed
to operate such cars.”

The Association presented gold
medals to the inventors of the most
outstanding models. The prize
money was kept intact and, later,
used to secure the. end desired by
those who subscribed to the fund.

 

KIRSCHNER
CAGES

the original Glass Plastic
Cage made by the oldest and

most experienced manu-
facturer of this type animal
cage. Fabricated from fiber-

glass, reinforced plastics.

so easily cleaned

 

I

 

 

Before you install new
cages, WRITE dept. KN for
information on these
modern cages. . .molded,
seamless construction. . .with
the door to last a lifetime.

MANUFACTURING COMPANY
VASHON WASHINGTON

Page 73

 




     

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

TORTOISES

THERE IS ONE present-day inhab-
itant of the remote island of St.
Helena who, provided he ever toiled
as far as Longwood, probably gazed
upon Napoleon himself. This is
Jonathan, the giant tortoise still
active in the grounds of the Govern-
ment House.

Reputed to be more than 200‘ years
old, he must have been approaching
his teens when the ex—Emperor was
born in Corsica.

Although venerable, Jonathan is
not unique in his longevity. One
tortoise which was kept by succes-
sive Bishops of Peterborough died
in 1821 after some two centuries of
episcopal care.

Many tortoises, indeed, are known
to have been centenarians. But when
the fact that they spend six months
of each year in hibernation is con-
sidered, their length of conscious
life is not quite so remarkable.

In fact, it may safely be assumed
that the 10- or 12-year-old tortoises
found in their native haunts in the

Page 74

By DAVID GUNSTON

Atlas or Riff Mountains of North
Africa are, relatively speaking, very
young babies.

And the hoary, knowing, ponder-
ous old familiar of the garden corner
that has remained with the same
family perhaps for half a century is
hardly middle-aged.

Part of the secret lies in their bony
structure, in which the ribs and
breast—bone are ﬂattened and fused
onto the shell. This skeletal design,
encased within the twin jointed
plates of the shell with its six open-
ings for head, tail and legs, allows
no room for lung expansion.

Therefore, despite the possession
of large lungs, a tortoise must breathe
with its throat muscles—an arrange-
ment that makes for sluggish respira-
tion and general slowness of life.

Thus, the detached, “slow-drag-
ging” reptile so beloved of genera-
tions of children is a curiosity of the
animal world. Imprisoned for life
between its usually handsomely
marked plates of horny, expanding

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY

shell, ponderous and withdrawn, it
is nevertheless exceedingly tenaciOus
of its existence. It can truthfully be
said that if a tortoise lives longer
than most other creatures, it also
lives less.

As is well known, tortoises are
notoriously slo-w a-dying. They may
remain in a torpid state for many
hours before dying. Onlookers once
watched in horror as a tortoise
walked 200 yards 24 hours after it
had been decapitated.

In spite of their essentially dry-
land existence, they like water to
drink and bathe in, but the vessel or
pool containing it must be below the
level of the ground upon which they
stand or else they cannot reach it.

They have a decided preference
for yellow-colored foodstuffs and
they eat only the juicy outer leaves.

Tortoises may also have strange
individual fancies, devouring things
like rose petals, bread and jam, cur-
rants, boot polish, putty, etc.

They early learn to come and take
food from the hand when called, and
survey intently through their bird-
like, three-lidded eyes the whole
of their territory, which they know
intimately. They have good senses
of taste, smell and touch and an
always-useful, split-second reaction
to withdraw inside the shell at the
ﬁrst inkling of danger.

Tortoise courtship, rarely seen in
temperate lands, also suggests a high
intelligence, too. The male woos his
mate for many days on end, making
shrill piping sounds and tapping or
knocking upon her shell with his
own.

As an organism, the tortoise is
tough and independent from the
start. The baby reptile, of thumb-
nail size, emerges from its soft, rub-
bery egg after the egg has had a
month’s incubation by the sun’s rays.
These fascinating little creatures
know no parents, which take not the
slightest interest in them anyway-
They almost immediately set about
burying themselves for their hiber—
nation—though not without the cus—
tomary prolonged fast, in contrast
to other hibernators which fatten up
before going into their winter sleep.

Six months later they awake to
perpetuate their strange, other-
worldly race—truly prehistoric crea-
tures quietly and self-sufficiently
alive in the modern world.

I962

 

 




 

CALO PET FOODS

Just what nature ordered

 

Calo is produced in the most modernpet food plant
in the world with automatic equipment that is unique
in the industry. And every step of production is so
well controlled that Calo Cat Food and Calo Dog
Food never vary from their consistent high quality.

 

 

Giant pressure cookers sterilize and steam-cook the
filled cans of pet food. The good fresh meats are
thus cooked to a natural, golden-brown. No artifiCial

red coloring in Colo!

CALO specialists

a 0 West Hanover, Massachusetts

Canneries: Oakland, Californi

THE NATIONAL H

 

Calo’s modern electronic system takes the guesswork
out of weighing, mixing and cooking with all opera-
tions recorded and controlled. Here, an automatic
device weighs out the correct amount of each in-
gredient in the Calo formula.

     

 

 

     

 

CALO CAT FOOD
because all cats
need meat!

CALO DOG FOOD
the square meal in
the round can!

Everything for a balanced diet

Cal-o Pet Foods are packed with meats—plus
every essential known to be needed for a com-
plete diet—*ineluding Vitamins A, the B group,
D and E.

in Pet Nutrition

UMANE REVIEW—JANUARY‘FEBRUARY. I962 page 75

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AHA Field
Representatives

Page 76

 

 

Zadok Street, the ﬁrst AHA

traveling agent.

(—

Frank R. Andrews

-—+
Ronald P. Lambert

Kenneth B. McGovern; Jr.

 

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY

 

ADOK STREET of Salem, Ohio in

1879 became The American H11-
mane Association’s ﬁrst ﬁeld repre_
sentative. His work involved travel-
ing throughout the country to
investigate cattle car conditions.

Since 1879, the Association’s ﬁeld
department has undergone many
changes and has evolved into a
strong and integral part of the A530.
ciation’s organizational setup.

During the early days of AHA’S
existence, the traveling agent was
concerned with only one major prob—
lem—the cruelty inﬂicted upon food
animals being transported from the
West to eastern consumers.

Today, the areas of concern have
multiplied and the AHA ﬁeld con-
sultant is faced with hundreds of
varied humane problems.

He is called upon to supervise ani-
mal activities such as rodeos, cir-
cuses or other animal exhibitions; he
must be prepared to inspect a pack-

~ ing plant or to stand in for Holly-

wood Ofﬁce supervisors when the
work-load is too great to be handled
by that ofﬁce.

Fieldmen consult with city and
county ofﬁcials; they plan and mod-
erate conferences and attend state
and regional federation meetings.
AHA ﬁeld consultants also represent
the Association at shelter Openings
and other formal celebrations.

They conduct city. state and na—
tional surveys; make recommenda-
tions and offer suggestions to newly-
Crganized groups; evaluate methods
for shelter construction and animal
handling and attend legislative hear-
mgs.

 

I962

 




 

Todays ﬁeld consultant acts as a The formulation of the regional uallv searchinnr for new and better
liaison between .the'. humane move- Servrce Council program was another wavs to incrgase their service to
ment and allied—interest groups such step forward in AHA’s continuing humane organizations. The past
as packers and transportatlon age” program 0f increased service to hu- vears have SblﬂﬁVIl a high degree of
cies. He 355,13“ 111 settmg up socrety mane organizations. their success in improving AHA ﬁeld
record-keeplng methods, fOHOWS up Through this new, efﬁcient and service. The future will, no doubt,
speciﬁc cruelty. complamtsi revises, uniﬁed method of combating ﬁeld offer even more success toward this
updates and dissemlnates mforma— problems, many previously unoffered goal.

tiOh 0f value to 50“th managers SerViCes will be available. The American Humane Associa-
and ofﬁcersr plans and prepares COH‘ The AHA Service Council net- tion’s ﬁeld services have indeed come
ventlon exhibits and programs. work 18 not designed in any way to a long way since Zadok Street took

The Association’s ﬁeld consultants interfere with existing intrastate his ﬁrst train ride on behalf of AHA.
offer help in a number of other ways. services offered by state federations The AHA ﬁeld consultants are con—
Of primary importance is the dis- or local humane organizations. ﬁdent that these services can and will
semination of information which is AHA ﬁeld consultants are contin- be increased.
nationwide in scope. The medium of
information may be a simple one-
page memorandum or an elaborate,
documented booklet—produced by
the ﬁeld consultants in cooperation
with the public relations and edi- - — ‘9 l /
torial departments of The American ‘ V ' o M ’ 4
Humane Association. The material ’t', \“ede CEDAR. , A/&;
which appears in these publications "EP
is an up-to—date, composite picture of
many programs which are actually
in use by AHA afﬁliates throughout
the nation.

Many organizations and munici-
palities have speciﬁc problems for
which they need speciﬁc answers.
At times these answers may be pro-
vided by telephone or by an ex-
change of correspondence. In many
situations, the best solution is per-
sonal consultation with an AHA ﬁeld
representative.

In recent years, additional ways
for the AHA ﬁeld consultant to
aid humane organizations have been
devised. The inauguration of NIP
(Nationwide Inspection Program)
was the ﬁrst step in the expansion of
AHA ﬁeld services. This was in 1959.

For many years, AHA had received
Complaints of abuse to animals in
traveling exhibitions. These com-
plaints were difﬁcult to check, as
shows moved quickly from one geo-
graphic area to another.

NOW, through NIP, AHA corre-
lates all reports of irregularities and
reports them to the next inspecting
Organization in order that their agent
can recheck on any reported mis-
treatment to animals. Itineraries are
Veriﬁed for every exhibition to make

the protection of animals more posi-
tive.

 

 

 
 
     
 
   
 

      
 
 
    
 
 

O

...
Jug, \ (I I
~ '15 I

  

    

 

 
  
 

PERFECT LITTER
for ALL Pets

CEDAR-OMA . . . your best bet for all pets . . . It’s proc-
essed from a by-product of ﬂax linen ﬁber which meets every
requirement of the perfect litter. It’s warm and dry and stays
that way. It absorbs cage odors. Because it is extremely decay-
resistant, it prevents mold which is a source of pet diseases.
High absorbency draws the moisture from droppings which ﬁl-
ter through to the cage ﬂoor as dry particles. Ideal for pad-ﬁlling.

 

Now packed in
l and 5 Pound bags for
small pets as
well as 10, 25
and 50 pound »
sizes for "
larger pets,

   

  
 

 

 

 

Ask for CEDAR-OMA . . .

more beneﬁts—at less cost to keep animal pets and
' ﬂ - birds clean, healthy and happy.

.p..|T’S LITTER-PERFECT

 

 

In October, 1960 The American \%
Humane Association again expanded i 3" J S h o o . .
Its ﬁeld service into What has been . Peter . c weltzer DIVISIon
“ *Ceda -Oma is t e to emar
Called the largest on-the-spot ﬁeld ﬁtPﬁ’r’ili‘cf’ﬁl‘lvectfilgmm WINDOM, MINNESOTA
Servrce conducted by any organiza— 'm e y ‘
t10n 1n the world.” . _

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY, 1952 Page 77

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Mrs. Robertson gives Shorty his daily carrot. The tame groundhog lives in an

earthen den in one corner of the patio (see upper left of photo.)

Easy-Living Marmot

U IVHEN MR. AND MRS. James Rob-

ertson of Centralia, Illinois were re-
turning home from St. Louis one
day about three years ago, they saw
a full-grown groundhog (marmot)
lying alongside the highway. The
animal was injured, but still able to
move.

The Robertsons stopped to investi-
gate. The animal’s right front leg was
broken and its head was crushed.
Even so, not wishing to leave it there
suffering, the Robertsons took the
roly-poly animal home with them.

It was unconscious for three days.

Then it ﬁnally responded to the
constant care and attention it was re-
ceiving from its benefactor. “Shorty,”
as it was named by Mrs. Robertson,
began to show signs of recovery. It
sipped at water, munched at a carrot.

As time passed, the Robertsons
realized they had a strange, unusual
pet. Shorty liked his new home just
ﬁne. He wouldn’t go away.

Shorty lives in a special den the
Robertsons built for him in a corner
of the patio. The two family dogs,

Page 78

strangely, don’t bother with him, and
he pays no attention to them.

Right now, Shorty is deep in his
yearly “long sleep.” According to
Mrs. Robertson, as soon as the crisp
autumn days come, he brings in
leaves and grass from the yard to
line his nest for his annual period of
hibernation. The Robertsons expect
him to come out of his den this
spring, as he has for the past three
years, “skinny as a fence rail and
ready to eat anything in sight.”

“That old adage of Groundhog’s
Day, when the animals are supposed
to come out of their hibernation to
check on the weather,” says Mrs.
Robertson, “is totally untrue. Last
spring Shorty slept until mid-March
before he decided the weather was
warm enough to come out.”

Shorty is an extremely clean ani-
mal, but some of his habits are
irritating. For instance, he’ll eat an -
thing that grows, as high as he can
reach. This includes tree limbs
ﬂower petals, grass, garden veg:
etables and low-hanging fruit, His

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY

By GROVER BRINKMAN

favorite foods are corn on the cob,
peaches, ice cream and especially
carrots.

The Robertsons do not handle
Shorty too much, for fear neigh-
boring children will get too friendly
with him. He’s never been vicious—
in fact, he’s tame as a kitten—but his
teeth are quite sharp. (Wild ground-
hogs have been known to lick the
tar out of a dog twice their size.)

Children in the block all love
Shorty and sometimes they bring
him an ice cream cone. He gobbles
the treat up so fast that it is plainly
obvious that he has a sweet tooth.

If Shorty could write his mem-
oirs, surely he would say that the
day he was struck by a car was in—
deed the luckiest time of his life.

 

“I will not kill nor hurt any living
creature needlessly, nor destroy any
beautiful thing, but will strive to save
and comfort all gentle life, and guard
and perfect all natural beauty upon
the earth.”—]ohn Ruskin.

 

 

llllllllll

i 962

 




 

, The W-K HIGH ALTITUDE CHAMB

The HUMANE WAY to put to sleep
Dogs, Cats, Birds and. other animals

'0

Mr. Naramore
of the
Humane Society of Rochester
has this to say

Our W-K High Altitude Chamber
has been in continual operation for
. more than three years and has
OPCd a means of Putting small animals proved most satisfactory. We be-

    
  

At last science has devel

. h sical distress, and with no lieve it is the very best method of
slee without palfl or P y . h mber deSIgned putting animals to sleep.
and pets to P The High Altltude C a , ' n A5 New born kittens turtles birds
danger to the Operator- rinciple of decompressw . i ,
b Walz & Krenzer, acts on tile P d 5 into unconsciousness. and other small animals drop to
1? air is drawn Off, the animal 1‘0P sleep in seconds in the smaller
it 6takes only a few secondS- b learned that animals Put Chamber' The big Chamber efF-
it has een

By actual observation, n or High Altitude Chamber paSS crently, qUIckly, and painlessly dis-
0

 

. ° ° 1 poses of dogs and cats.

to sleep 1n the deéilipfsestsrluly the most humane and merafu The Humane Society of Roch-

away painlessly;1 nimals to sleep. ester and Monroe County recom-

way 0f putting R DETAlLS and LITERATURE mends the W-K High Altitude
FOR FURTHE

Chamber whole

 

     

-heartedly.

Call or Write: C. Raymond Naramore

WALZ & KRENZER, lNC.

 
 
 
   

ER 8, N. Y.
22 FLINT STREET ROCHEST

Page 79
I962

HUMANE REVI EW—JAN UARY-FEBRUARY.

L

THE NATIONA

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Congratulations
LONDON, ENGLAND

I have searched through the rec-
ords of the Royal Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
for information regarding the found—
ing of The American Humane Asso-
ciation. I fear that I can find no spe—
ciﬁc comment, but a reference to
this movement in America is con—
tained in this quotation from our
1877 Report:

“From the United States Of Amer-
ica, your Committee continues to
receive satisfactory assurances Of
progress, attributable mainly to the
untiring zeal of Mr. Bergh, president
of the American Society, Mr. Angell
of Boston, Mrs. White of Philadel-
phia, Mr. Shortall of Chicago, and
other earnest transatlantic friends of
your cause.”

I should very much like you to
make editorial reference to the greet—
ing conveyed to you in this letter.
I should like to congratulate The
National Humane Review on its
50th Birthday and tO wish it pros-
perity in the future.

JOHN HALL
CHIEF SECRETARY
ROYAL SPCA

D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D
D

 

WHEN CHANGING 1.
YOUR ADDRESS .

Please notify us 6 weeks in ad- ‘
vance. Supply us with both ’
your Old and new address, in-
cluding address label from cur-
rent issue if possible. Copies
we mail to your old address
will not be delivered by the
Post Office unless you pay
them extra postage. Mail ad-
dress changes to The National
Humane Review, Circulation
1 Dept., The American Humane
1 Association, 896 Pennsylvania
1 Street, Denver 3, Colorado. Be
‘ sure to include your city postal
’ zone number.

vvvvw-v—vv-‘v

vvv v-vvvwvv-vv—wvv
A-AA-‘-A-A

vvv'vvvv

 

-A-A

 

LETTERS

PORTLAND, MAINE

Your Review is immensely worth
while. I read it from cover to cover.
Humanitarians throughout the world
appreciate the great service you are
rendering to the cause in which we
all are so interested.

PERCIVAL P. BAXTER
FORMER GOVERNOR,
MAINE

NEW YORK, NEW YORK

The Golden Anniversary celebra-
tion of your publication is an ex-
citing milestone to reach. Congratu—
lations on a wonderful achievement
and much continued success.

H. P. TALBOTT

Reminiscences

SEATTLE, WASHINGTON

I wish to express my deep appre-
ciation for the scroll and pin pre-
sented to me through the King
County Humane Society as your
afﬁliate here in Seattle.

It is the first time I have received
a formal and much valued token Of
approval from the national organiza-
tion and I shall value it highly.

I used to receive many favors
from the big New York Society and
when in that city many years ago
was entertained and driven around
by a very prominent wife Of a big
banker who was a very liberal sup—
porter Of the organization.

The lady seemed to know a great
many teamsters handling big perch—
erons in the various market places
and we stopped her carriage to talk
to many of them.

It is a long time ago, too, when
I used to take cattle trains into Den-
ver and not long after a big ﬁght
with some of the legislators before
getting a law passed to force ship-

pers to unload and feed the cattle
every 28 hours.

I also met there that prominent
citizen, Soapy Smith, who tried, but
failed to Skin a supposed sucker.

CHARLES M. FARRER

I Mr. Farrer, 96, was honored by

The American Humane Association

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY

at its annual convention in Denver
last October for 55 years of volun-
teer service to the humane move-
ment. He received the AHA Dia-
mond Service Pin.

Foster Goat

 

A goat played the role of foster
mother to an orphaned colt in Wau-
kesha, Wisconsin, recently.

WAUKESHA, \VISCON SIN

A three-day-old colt was adopted
by a nanny goat on the Phil Williams
farm in W aukesha County recently.
The foster mother was a life saver.

The mare died within eight hours
after the young horse was born. The
loss of the mother very often spells
doom for the colt. And this one, as
so many others before, refused to
take nourishment from a bottle.

Williams then decided on the goat
substitute.

He had to have a stanchion, stand
and feeder built to place the goat at
mare height to attract the colt. Th6
colt fed every three hours, then
rested. The goat and its foster Child
were very friendly; the nanny eVelil
licked the colt affectionately.

The colt’s mother had been sired
by “Bold V enture,” the Kentucky
Derby winner of 1936.

MRS. MABLE FRUIT
WAUKESHA COUNTY HUMANE SOCIETY

I962

 




 

 

 

Help for Guppies

FORT ORD, CALIFORNIA

Please send me a book about ﬁsh
because my guppies are dying and
they haven’t had any babies for a
long time. I am eight years old.

LORRAINE BRENNERBIAN

The American Humane Associa-
tion was delighted to receive this
letter from Lorraine and sent to her
a copy of the AHA publication,
“Care of Fish.”

All of AHA’S “Care of . . .” pam-
phlets are available in any quantity.
Sample copies and price lists will
be sent on request.

Article Requests

PHILADELPHIA, PENNSYLVANIA

Will you please send us a copy of
your September-October issue of the
Review as it contains an article
covering disaster care for the dog
in which we are interested. . . .

We have been collecting as much
data as possible for a possible dis-
aster—and your article has been the
ﬁrst to slant anything to animals.

It is surprising how this phase
has been overlooked by both the

governmental and local agencies.

MRS. E. W. RULEY
POPULAR DOGS MAGAZINE

l Copies of the “When Disaster
Strikes” article which appeared in
the September-October National H u-
mane Review are still available.
Write to AHA for information.

CANON CITY, COLORADO

The article published in The Na-
tional Humane Review concerning
pets in the penitentiary has been
received and read. I feel that you
have done a very excellent job in
preparing this article.

I sincerely trust that you can ar-
range to have a number of copies
carrying this article sent directly
to the Colorado State Penitentiary
library as I know the men will be
interested in learning of this.
HARRY C. TINSLEY
WARDEN AND CHIEF OF CORRECTIONS
COLORADO STATE PENITENTIARY

Animal Salesmen
DENVER, COLORADO

We are still elated about the pho—
tograph on page 24 of the November-
December Review. Within two days
after receiving our copy of the maga—
zine, we received an inquiry from
one of your readers asking about the
travel bags pictured with the dog
and her two kittens. The letter was
from New Jersey.

As you know, the travel bags that
the two orphaned kittens and their
adopted Golden Retriever mother
helped publicize are sold by Veter-
ans’ clubs of the Denver 81 Rio
Crande Western Railroad. Members
of the organization are employees
with 20 or more years of service with
the railroad.

This was the third time the picture
had appeared in a publication. We
used the same photo in June and
immediately sales jumped up. Again
the picture appeared in our Septem—
ber newspaper and for the second
time, we knew our readers had seen
the photo.

Does this prove we have an un-
deniable interest in animals? Yes!

It also proves to me that pictures
of animals command a readership
that might even surpass cheesecake
photosl

V. H. IMMROTH
EDITOR, GREEN LIGHT
D&RGW RR

 

m magnets

   

OF DU PONT NYLON

- -0NLY5 Eomnlete Answer
to the CHEWING PROBLEM!
W

SAVES DOG’S LIVES . . NO COSTLY SUR-
GERY . . AVOIDS PROPERTY DAMAGE . .
BY DIVERTING DOGS TO SAFE CHEWING;

ANNOT CAUSE VOMITING—OR DEADLY
INTESTINAL RUPTURES OR STOPPAGES;

E FFECTIVE TOOTH CLEANING 8: VIGOROUS
GUM MASSAGE-WITHOUT TOOTH WEAR;

USED BY LEADING ANIMAL HOSPITALS,
KENNELS AND HUMANE SHELTERS.

 

 

 

. . ASK YOUR VETERINARIAN
s E ' ' e3 ".'.'°"... ,_ F!
9 I Z [9 git‘fié'tv’ﬁig 3-3331. 37.4w “:3;

WOLF-SIZE 5,99
“52 -—For LARGE Dogs ')9'.
a REGULAR 5,39%
{if — For MOST Dogs ‘ 1-1.
TITE r-
3'3} _ EFEOY SMALL Dogs 89¢ m

.. _ ,. -. - v “bi-feta":
‘. 3-133..13*23'v'554Gx-Zg’gmmﬁﬂx-1.4mf§r§.~'?£~.r.. .

Better Pet Stores Everywhere

NYLABONE [B'IIRPIIRAIIIIN

 

rodeo); 72.22; OKLAHOMA cmr 12,'OKLA.

 

Do you receive the

AHA NEWSLETTER?

We’ll send it to you each
month—tree on request!

AHA Newsletter
P.O. Box 1266T, Denver 1, Colo.

 

 

No

PORTABLE BUT PERMANENT FENCING

featuring FORD’S exclusive
DOUBLE FRAME CONSTRUCTION
Quality for a Quarter Century

 

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY.

Posts Required

   

KENNEL EUUIPMENT

The variety of easy portability, arrangement and sizes of Ford Kennel Run Panels ap-
peals to every experienced user. Husky double frame permits changing from one arrange-
ment and location to another without fear of damaae. It takes one man only a few min-
utes to erect or take down Ford Panel sections quickly and easily. For your dog’s SAFETY,
choose Ford Panels. They’re escapehproot, even to door latches. No wire ends protrude to
shag or scratch an animal. Ford Panels are superior in safety, construction and service-
ability. And your FIRST Ford kennel cost is your LAST COST!

Write for illustrated literature and price list to:
FORD’S, 6540 East Westﬁeld Boulevard, Indianapolis, Indiana

I962 Page 8|

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

HROUGH THE THIN walls of the

tenant house, Bruce McDonald
heard the even breathing of his
parents. At last they were asleep.

Pulling on his overalls, he felt his
way carefully toward the kitchen.
The moonlight ﬁltering in the win-
dow enabled him to see clearly the
rows of boxes ﬁlled with the family
possessions. The boxes would be in
a cottage his father had rented six
miles away by this time tomorrow.

As he closed the screen door be-
hind him and stepped into the June
night, old Shep, his collie rose from
the stoop and pressed his nose
against Bruce’s hand.

They walked along together to-
ward the far end of the yard. Half-
way there, Bruce heard a whinny.
Star! Quiet as he had been, she had
heard him and was calling.

His throat felt choked. Did she
know that he had come to say good-
bye to her? Goodbye, forever!

As he let himself into the shed,
Star turned her head and nickered.
How beautiful she looked, he
thought, holding back his tears.

Bruce laid his face against her
red-gold mane, letting the anger and
rebellion seethe within him.

It had been such a foolish quarrel
—-between his father, Angus Mc-
Donald, and John Craig who had
hired another man to help on the
estate.

"B'ruce could hear his father’s voice,
violent with emotion, saying: “I’ve

Page 82

 

been managing this place for 1,6
years, ever since 1895, and I dont
need someone to come here now
and tell me how to do it! Especially
a young whipper-snapper like Tom
Ellis.”

And then John Craig’s equally
angry voice: “You’re a stubborn old
fool, Angus. I’m not bringing a man
here to boss you—only to help with
the work that has multiplied steadily
since we’ve added livestock and
land.”

The quarrel had ﬂared higher, be-
coming more intense with each
statement. It was Angus who ended
it.

“I’ll be leaving, John. You and
that Ellis can take over right away.
I’ll vacate the house.”

Even then, Bruce didn’t realize
what it meant. Of course, they’d take
Star, he thought. John Craig had
given the animal to him the day it
was born.

He remembered that night of
Star’s birth. The ﬁlly’s mother had
broken out of the barn, escaping into
the woods. It was Bruce who found
her out in the cold, while thunder
and lightning crackled overhead,
standing nervously beside the foal.
Stripping off his jacket, he wrapped
it around the little creature.

“She’s yours, Bruce,” John Craig
said. “Any boy who’d risk pneumonia
to save a foal deserves to'have it for
his own.”

That was four years ago and Star

 

By PAULINE L. JENSEN

had been his ever since. He stood in
the stall beside her, his arms tight
around her neck. Sobs wracked his
body.

His father had made it clear that
Bruce couldn’t take the horse with
them. Star, whom he’d broken to the
halter, and then to the saddle—Star
who followed him like a dog, for-
ever seeking attention—Star would
be left behind. Angus McDonald had
stood ﬁrm: “We’re not taking any—
thing that doesn’t belong to us!”

Bruce had protested. “But Iohn
Craig gave her to me!”

His father shook his head. “We
got nothing to prove it, but his say-
so. And that’s not good enough for
me!”

And now, tomorrow, his father
would do as he’d said. “I’ll take Star
up to the corral and turn her loose
with the other horses.”

Bruce clenched his ﬁsts and fought
back the sobs. He pressed his face
tightly against the horse. Star turned
her dark eyes on him, sensing that
something was wrong.

The ﬁrst faint streaks of dawn
were beginning to light the sky.
Soon, Angus McDonald would be
awake and he’d take Star away.

Then suddenly, Bruce knew what
he would do. He’d go away and take
Star with him. He’d not be parted
from his horse.

He hurried into the house. From
beside his bed, he took a tin can con-
taining his savings—a dollar and

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARYl I962

 




 

nineteen cents—and emptied it into Bruce knew that the wrath of Angus stubborn old coot!”

his pocket.

McDonald was truly awful, espe-

Bruce’s mother raised her hand.

From the kitchen he took a loaf cially in regard to something like “Stop it, you two! Be thankful that

of fresh-baked bread, wrapping it in
a tea towel that hung back of the
black, iron stove.

Back at the shed, he quickly
saddled Star. The saddle was his;

this.

As he came abreast of his father,
Bruce pulled Star to a stop, and
with his head hung low, murmured,
“I was coming back. I couldn’t take

the boy’s going brought both of you
to your senses.”

She turned to her son. “It’s all ﬁne
now, Bruce,” she said. “Your father
will have charge of the estate

he’d bought it with the money he’d her away without knowing she was grounds and the livestock. Tom Ellis

earned in the summers. To the pom-
mel he fastened Star’s feedbag, a
small sack of oats and the tea towel
containing the bread. Then he
headed for the road in front of the
cottage.

Old Shep followed them, but
Bruce gently caressed the dog. “Stay,
boy,” he said. The collie stood, puz-
zled, his ears drooping sadly, as
Bruce, not daring to look back,
walked down the road with Star.

Soon the familiar landscape gave
way to a strange one. The sun was
now up on the horizon. They must
have covered six or seven miles,
Bruce thought.

He had a gnawing pain in his
stomach, and yet he didn’t feel
hungry. It was time for Star’s break-
fast, so when they came to a creek
beside a grove of trees, Bruce turned
the horse toward it.

He let Star drink her ﬁll; then he
put some of the oats in the feedbag.
As Star settled down to eating,
Bruce tore a piece of bread from
the loaf. It tasted dry and ﬂat, not
like it did when it was covered with
jam and butter.

What were they doing back home,
he thought. They’d have missed him
long before this. Would they look
for him? If they found him, though,
he decided, he wouldn’t go back.

His father’s words came back to
him: “We’re not taking anything
that doesn’t belong to us. We got
nothing to prove it, except his say-

,3

so.

Was Star really his, then? Did he
have papers to prove it? He sat in
the grass, watching as the animal
nibbled at the small, green leaves on
a low tree branch.

Suddenly he stiffened. If Star
wasn’t his, then he’d done something
awful. He was a horse thief!

He trembled violently, looking at
the horse with anxiety. There was
only one thing he could do—he’d
have to go back and prove that Star
was really his!

He was halfway home when he
saw his father coming toward him.

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY. I962

mine.”

He raised his eyes to his father’s
face. And instead of anger, he saw
a strange look—one of pride, mingled
with pity.

“Come along,” his father said
brusquely and they rode silently
toward home.

Mrs. McDonald and John Craig
were standing in the dooryard when
Bruce and his father rode up. His
mother pushed back the pink sun-
bonnet, and in her eyes, too, Bruce
saw no anger.

He looked around in bewilder-
ment. Had he only been gone a few
hours? The wagon that was to take
away their belongings stood empty
in the yard.

John Craig’s voice was gentle. “I
gave her to you a long time ago, lad.
No one but that prideful father of
yours would have questioned it, the

takes over the ﬁelds and the row
crops.”

His father laid his hand on Bruce’s
shoulder. “And you’ll have the care
of the horses, lad. ’Tis time you were
doing a man’s job.”

“John,” Bruce’s father said,
“There’s a cow in the pasture I’m
worried about. Would you mind
taking a look at her?”

As they walked away, John Craig
turned back to Bruce. “To set your
mind at rest, my boy, I’ll have a
paper drawn up to prove that Star
legally belongs to you.”

For a moment Bruce said nothing,
then he laid his face against Star’s
neck. When he looked up, they had
all disappeared, even his mother.

He was glad they were gone.
Thirteen is too old for a boy to
cry, even though the tears were ones

of joy.

 

A l’ ’ "
gunnn I

t? f II

. .r‘ .‘
‘ 'i
Q ’2': "’1‘;
. _,' HEW".
‘ ,
l'l‘ II

3.,

II _. nil ' ‘.

1| n '

. '\“‘.

. ‘yo‘ ' ' -. .
H.333" J :1
\I'T‘E; —\ -~
wwnguv '
NV 5 .-

  

   

  

 

. . .-.-.uc-:':-':3:3E331§=§€§-‘5

 

Awarded to Animal Trap Company of America, Lititz, Pa., for
the No. 110 Victor Conibear Trap by The American Humane,
Association ”. . . for honored recognition in advancing the prin—

ciples of humanitarianism . . .

Page 83

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Judges try out a leg-hold trap submitted in 1940 AHA humane trap contest.

The Search for a

C. W. F riedrichs examines Conibear
trap which has received favorable
comment from Trap Contest judges.

Page 84

 

The American Humane Associa-
tion continues to encourage the de-
velopment of a humane trap through
its Humane Trap Contest. Hundreds
of traps have been entered, but none
have yet qualiﬁed for the $20,000
prize awaiting the inventor of a
device which will answer AHA’S
qualiﬁcations.

For a decade, The American Hu-
mane Association has offered a
$10,000 award for a trap that will
eliminate the suffering inﬂicted upon
animals by the steel-jawed trap com-
monly in use in the trapping ﬁeld.

An additional $10,000 was pledged
in 1957 by Professor John Ise, pro-
vided that the trap is invented dur-
ing his lifetime.

Under the rules of the contest, to
be eligible for prize money, a trap
must be efficient for use on trap lines
and must be easy to carry and set. It
must also be economical to manu-
facture and sell. And, most impor-
tant, it must eliminate the sufferin
that comes from the use of the steel-
jawed trap.

Many American and foreign in-

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY,

Humane Trap

ventors have submitted their trap
designs to AHA. Some of these en-
tries have had worthwhile features
as a humane replacement for the leg-
hold trap which has dominated the
ﬁeld for almost 300 years.

Although no trap yet submitted
in the contest has taken the full prize
money, one trap was singled out dur—
ing 1960 for a special prize of $600.
This sum is completely apart from
the $10,000 and has no effect on that
sum.

The prize-winning trap was the
invention of Frank Conibear, a vet-
eran trapper of the Canadian North—
west Territories. His trap has made
its best showing in the trapping of
muskrat and is called an important
contribution in the trapping ﬁeld. A
certiﬁcate of merit was presented to
Conibear in addition to the cash
award. The Animal Trap Company
Of America, manufacturers of the
Victor-Conibear trap, was also cited

by AHA.

The special award for Conibeal‘
was the ﬁrst and oan recognition
glven by AHA to an inventor com-

I962

   
    
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
 
  
  
  
  
   
 
    
  

 




 

eting in the Humane Trap Contest
since the $10,000 was ﬁrst offered in
1952.

Prior to 1952, however, the Asso-
ciation conducted an annual trap
competition with yearly awards
amounting to approximately $500.

The American Humane Associa-
tion’s interest in trapping came to
fore in 1927 when AHA appointed
its ﬁrst Humane Trapping Commit—
tee for the purpose of working to
obtain legislation requiring that all
traps take their victims alive unhurt,
or kill animals instantly.

The Committee had some success.
South Carolina passed such a law
and a number of other states enacted
some type of legislation to regulate
trapping.

In 1928, the National Association
of the Fur Industry instituted a
$10,000 award for the development
of a humane device suitable for the
practical needs of trappers and meet-
ing the humane requirements of The
American Humane Association. This
offer was withdrawn in 1981 when
the Fur Industry group reorganized.

Because of the interest aroused by
the prize offer, AHA decided to con-
duct the trap contest on an annual
basis. Many good and usable ideas
resulted from the yearly competi-
tions.

But the “perfect trap” seemed as
far away as ever. And so in 1952, the
Association believing that higher
cash awards would serve as a greater
incentive to inventors, offered
$10,000. More entries have been re-
ceived in the decade since then—
and many of the most promising
traps have been put on the market—
than in all the years from the time
the Association ﬁrst expressed its in-
terest in humane trapping.

Contest rules have since been
modiﬁed to provide for half of the
total award to go to the inventor of
a humane trap for small animals and
the other half to the inventor of a
large animal trap. The Association
has concluded that a trap for small
animals might be one that kills in—
stantly while a trap which will hold
an animal unharmed—and is fre-
quently checked—may be the answer
to humane trapping of large animals.

Complete rules for the AHA Hu-
mane Trap Contest may be obtained
from the Association in Denver.

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY—FEBRUARY. I962

Quotes

“Apart from all questions of policy
and interest, the observance of mercy
and kindness toward dumb animals
is rich in pure indeﬁnable satisfac-
tion. It blesses not only the lower
being which is the recipient of it, but
doubly him who practices it.”—
Henry Bergh.

“One should teach children in their
early youth to be merciful and pitiful
towards animals for with animals
children ﬁrst accustom themselves
to be merciful or cruel; and when
grown up, they will then be merciful
and helpful or unmerciful and un-
kind, also, towards their neighbor.”
—National‘Humane Review, F ebru-

ary, 1918.

“I am a humanitarian because I
believe that humanity, in its widest
sense, is the practical interpretation
of the Divine injunction:—‘Love thy
neighbor as thyself,> and therefore is
a reflection of the spirit of the In-
ﬁnite; because it is an expression of
the noblest tendencies of the present
age and, at the same time, represents
the ultimate doctrine of the highest
civilization.

“Humanity stands for even handed
justice for the weak as well as the
strong—for mercy as the ﬁnest at-
tribute of man. It is the law of love,
the soul of every virtue, and the
enemy of every vice.

“It is simple enough for a child to
understand and lofty enough to serve
as a model for the wisest and great-
est. It is so sublime in its conception
that it serves to regulate the moral
order of the universe, for by justice
and mercy shall the world ﬁnally be
judged.”—Dr. William O. Stillman,
February, 1914.

 

 

"Care of. . ." Pamphlets

TITLES AVAILABLE: Dogs — Cats —
Birds — Fish — Small Animals — the
Horse—Wild Animals and Birds.

PRICES (in any combination):
|-|00|. 29‘. each

IOO I .5000. Il/2¢ each _.

5000 up. hr. each ,,

ImprintsI 5000 minimum. $|.50 per M

ORDER FROM:
AMERICAN HUMANE ASSN.
P.O. Box 1266 Denver 'I. Colo.

 

 

   
 

' PET
OWNERS!
J'Save

”This door is fantastic in its
simplicity & serviceability. I
want another one for my ranch
house in the mountains.ll
Denver, Colo.

FilexPort PET DOOR

Ends Door-Tending, Whining, Scratching
Why be a doorman for your pet? FlexPort
ends scratched doors and whining. Keeps out
ﬂies, wind, rain. Gives you and pet com-
plete freedom. Soft plastic triangles close
gently and tightly. Easily
installed. Prices start at
$19.90. Before ordering
send for tree folder.

TUREN, Inc. Dept. A-I
2 Cottage Ave.,
Danvers, Mass.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Congratulations to

UCE

French Building

The NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW

on its

GOLDEN ANNIVERSARY

“PRE SS @ppl NG

ESTABLISHED I888

0

(BUREAU

 

Topeka, Kansas .

 

 

 

 

 

Page 85 I

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Review Reviews
Cats Galore!

CATS X.Y.Z. By Beverley Nichols.
Illustrated by Derrick Sayer. E. P.
Dutton. $3.50.

CATS’ COMPANY. By Compton
Mackenzie. Illustrated. Taplinger
Publishing Co. $3.95.

THE WONDERFUL WORLD OF
CATS. Selected by Beth Brown.
Pictures by Leonard Shortall.
Harp-er & Brothers. $3.95.

Cat lovers will cheer the arrival
of these three new books about
the feline world. Each, in its own
way, chronicles the wonder and
delight that comes from being en~
tranced by cats.

Beverley Nichols’ second alpha-
bet book about cats is just as delight-
ful as was his ﬁrst one (Cats A.B.C.,
“Review Reviews”, November-De-
cember, 1960) except that it goes

 

Page 88

into the deeper understanding and
more advanced principles of being
owned by a cat. The book is a con-
tinuation of Nichols’ life with 1118
pets. Intertwined with his narration
of daily events in the life of his ani-
mals are excellent tips on care of
cats—and care of humans who share
their home with cats.

Compton Mackenzie’s book, Cats’
Company, is a tribute to all cats,
but mostly to Siamese. Mackenzie
has shared his life with the royal cat
and perhaps one or two “ordinary”
cats since he was two—years-old. He’s
75 now!

In the book, Sir Compton relates
the many experiences of his long
life. Always, he is in the company
of many cats. The story is presented
in a light-hearted way, but some-
times touches on the sadness of
losing a beloved pet to death.

Short story anthologies seem to be

Illustration from Sir Compton Mackenzie’s book Cats’ Company.

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY

 

increasing, but rarely does one
chance upon a collection of new
and old stories that can be enjoyed
not only by youngsters but by all
the family. Beth Brown’s collection
of cat stories is truly delightful.

In the Wonderful \Vorld of Cats,
enchanting tabbys and queenly aris-
tocrats prance through a make—be-
lieve world where cats are the most
important characters. There are sad
stories, funny stories and beautiful
stories, written by well—known au-
thors who themselves have lived with
and loved cats.

These three cat books are excel-
lent and this reviewer recommends
them to anyone who owns cats, likes
cats, hopes to share his board with
cats or just enjoys reading about
cats.—EFS.

l)ogs

THE WONDERFUL WORLD OF
DOGS. Selected by Beth Brown-
Pictures by Leonard Shortall. Hal'-
per & Brothers. $3.95.

Here is an interesting and (int-61“
taining anthology of canine SiOI‘leS-
Funny, serious, exciting stories and
stories of triumph andlnavel‘y 31:6
included. They range from AeSOP:
fable of “The Sheep and the Dog
to the renowned war hero “ChOir’
boy.”

This anthology has been compiled
for the enjoymért and use Of the
entire family: You will ﬁnd the per-
fect selection to share with your

I962

 

 




 

 

 

youngster at those close, family
times that occur on a cold winter
night before a toasty ﬁre or at bed-
time. And your child will ﬁnd that
the stories retain their entertaining
quality after many, many readings.

Any child who owns a dog will
love this book, and those who do not
have a dog for a pet will ﬁnd this
new publication the next best thing.
—MAF.

Unusual
Animals

THE ELEPHANT IN THE BARN.
By James Playsted Wood. Pictures
by Leonard Kessler. Harper 8:
Brothers. $2.50.

This book is about an elephant
who belongs to some children. There
are six stories in the book—all are

different, but all relate to the same

elephant and the same children.

Although the book is difﬁcult to
get into, there are some humorous
incidents. One of the six stories deals
with the children taking the elephant
to school.

 

But the elephant—who can talk—
doesn’t want to go to school. His
various excuses as to why he can’t
attend classes offer some chuckles
for children from six to nine.—M]S.

MURDOCH. By Hubbell Pierce.
Pictures b “D. H”. Harper &
Brothers. $1.95.

RUFUS. By Tomi Ungerer. Illus-
trated. Harper & Brothers. $2.95.

Here are two books for beginning
readers. Both are entrancingly illus-

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW——

trated and both deal \vth animal
make-believe.

Murdoch, a mouse, received a
croquet set as a gift, but none of
his young friends had the slightest
interest in croquet. So Murdoch (le-
cided to learn to play the game by
himself.

This amusing story tells of Mur-
doch’s success at croquet and of the
loving admiration he arouses in his
family when he ﬁnally gives an ex-
hibition for them.

Rufus was a plain—ordinary bat
with a plain-ordinary bat’s-eye-view
of the world. But everything changed
on the night that he saw his ﬁrst
outdoor movie. The technicolor pic-
ture opened a whole new world to
Rufus, familiar only with the grays
and blacks of the night.

So entranced was he with the
world of color that he decided to
stay awake to see the dawn. And
when the sun revealed an abandoned
paint box, Rufus decided to decorate
himself in butterﬂy fashion.

Both of these new releases will
make pleasant gifts for young read-
ers.

Pigeon Care

BEGINNING WITH PIGEONS.
Carl Naether. Illustrated. All—Pets.

Pigeon keeping can be and is an
extremely popular pastime. It is a
delightful, educational activity for
young and old alike.

This book has been prepared for
the beginning pigeon fancier and is
meant especially for the novice. It
describes the various pleasures of
keeping pigeons and presents the
basic information needed to begin
the hobby.

Well illustrated and indexed and
written by a long-time pigeon en-
thusiast, this book offers practical
suggestions for keeping fancy, racing
and utility pigeons.

Noted

The 170th issue of The Old F arm-
er’s Almanac By Robert B. Thomas
is now available. It includes over
100 pages of new, useful and enter-
taining matter, including the weather
forecast, planting tables, etc. Pub-
lished by Yankee, Inc., the Almanac
sells for 35¢. .

The National Wildlife Federation

announces the release of a new pub-

 

lication featuring a series of edi-
torial essays prepared by Ernest
Swift, the organizations conserva—
tion advisor and former executive
director. Count Down to Survival
is a 54-page collection featuring 12
editorials which have appeared in
the Federation’s publication, Con-
servation News. Single copies may
be obtained at no charge from the
Federation, 1412 Sixteenth St., N.W.,
Washington 6, DC. Additional
copies are available at 25¢ each.

Slums and Suburbs, by Dr. James
B. Conant, is the result of a four
year study of American education
conducted by Dr. Conant and ﬁ-
nanced by the Carnegie Foundation
of New York. The book discusses
current problems of education in
depressed city areas, of better guid-
ance of youth, out-of school and
unemployed, and of pressures for
college admissions in the suburbs.
It concludes with recommendations
for dealing with the problems. Pub-
lished by the National. Committee
for Children and Youth, Slums and
Suburbs may be obtained by writing
to the Committee at 1145 Nineteenth
St., N.W., Washington 6, DC. The
price is $1.95.

 

Congratulations...
you are twice

the age of

ALL-PETS MAGAZINE

All-Pets Magazine brings you new author-
ities monthly on all pets . . . dogs, cats,
birds, fish, monkeys. etc. For breeders and
pet shop owners. Sample copy 35c.

$4.00 a year
ALL-PETS BOOKS

Your Pet Canary, Dr. C. W. Bice 50c
Your Pet Cockatiel, Alice L. Sadler 50c

Your Pet Budgie, Morris D. Wetenbergerl
Jr. 25c

Popular Finches, George W. Noreen 50c
Pet Myna, (Five Authors) 75c

Pet Hamsters. Rev. by Dr. Margaret W.
OrsiniSOc

Guinea Pigs, Dr. B. Eddie & Elizabeth Fer-
rari 50c

Pet Turtles, Dr. Hobart M. Smith 25c
Pet Alligators. Carl F. Kautfeld (Curator)
35c

Pet Chameleons, Blanche G. Greenberg 50c
Pet Kitten, Dr. Rachel Salisbury 50c

Tricks & Training for Cats, Morris L. Groder
75c

Keeping The Dwarf Sea Horse, Robert
Straughan 75c

Puppy Dog, Gabrielle E. Forbush 50c

ALL-PETS MAGAZINE
& BOOKS. INC.

169 Darling Place
Fond du lac, Wisconsin

 

 

 

JAN UARY-FEBRUARY. I962

Page 89

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

: \ x\ xx x T x x k k x x y x \ xiiiilu:”.:i4.t.:\uﬂdl

       

 

 

Luoma Photo

4

4115

 

      

 

Photo by Dante T
through the com'tesy of
Roland E.

mal Re

Chesley

 

ranqm

 

He

J

h 0
saw League of Boston Phot

 

 

 

 




 

,5 The original, painless, humane I
ll Euthanasia for small animal destruction

C.

——x

I.
s:
9;;Z

%
‘5»,
7

 

Euthanair, the original “high altitude”
euthanasia, is used in many principal cities
l throughout the world and has outsold all
[ other models by three to one. Advantages of
the Euthanair Method of euthanasia are:
no suffering—an absolute minimum of fear
. on the part of animals before and during the
blackout process—safety for operating personnel—
ease of operation. Euthanair is quick,

de endable and efﬁcient! Model LU, Burlingame, Calif., showing
p . portable cage on dolly

 

—A.._ JA

 

Enthanasia demands the absolute
best. The original cost and
maintenance of the

Euthanair Method of euthanasia,
over a period of years,

is minimal. Write for

additional information.

 

Attendant with Euthanair dual unit installed at the
Los Angeles North Hollywood shelter

' EUTHANAIR COMPANY

5156 Southridge Avenue Los Angeles 43. California
AXminsier 4-5557

 

 

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY. I962 page 9,

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

\

‘\ I. I.
\ & l’h‘
Kn“), ' “I‘ll, y
~46,“ *i/yW/Iy/l
,. xii/Id” ’
‘ "\‘l\'\ l“ i],
J- . d! h" 143‘???
e _/ "1“ . ‘
7: t ‘R\E\\\\ -
/ \ .. l \ \
4 \ \é\\ sat“ \\\\ .\
[4’] k//' \\§ ‘.- |.'l\r,‘,\\"
9” %"//l§ ,; ..‘\‘ W; .
$//\§\ A r .i ill”
. i‘ .
. “l

\ s5. , \ \ ,'
¢/ \‘Qmm (/h“\\\ . I l
\\ l

I.
if

 

 
 

ld

By WALLACE WEST

THESE DAYS, Tex Grogan happily
hunts for oil in Alaska’s vast Kenai
Peninsula Game Preserve. But the
big geologist was by no means happy
when he started work there back in
1958.

At that time, in fact, he wrote a
“Home on the Range” parody that
went:

“Oh, give me a trailer I don’t share
with moose

“Or with Kodiak bear.

‘fWhere never is heard, the game
warden’s word,

“And the white socks don’t get in
my hair.”

9} 9.7! if

Grogan, his teenage daughter,
Sally, and the family dog, “Pooch”
first encountered animal trouble
when their boat docked at the sleepy
village of Kenai on Cook Inlet. Be-
fore they could land, a brown bear
came wandering up the gang-plank.
Pooch gave battle. Bruin seized him
by the scruff of the neck and tossed
him overboard!

After the crew shooed the intruder

Page 92

ll
lllml

  
 
  
   
    

—

away, Tex rescued his unharmed pet
and went, dripping wet, to file a
complaint.

The grizzled constable did not
sympathize. “What you want to go
picking a quarrel with a friendly
b’ar fur? Around here, you kin get
a longer stretch in jail fur shooting a
moose out of season than fur shoot—
ing it out with a man.”

Tex stormed out of the office,
across the street to the general store
where he got supplies (a dozen eggs
at $1.10 and a half gallon of milk for
88¢). Then he rented a car to make
the trip to Swanson River where the
peninsula’s first oil well had recently
come 1n.

As they bumped through chuck-
holes ﬁlled with half-melted snow
in the endless pink twilight that ﬁl-
tered through a dense spruce forest
Tex, Sally—and presumably Pooch;
had plenty of time to wish they were
back among friends in Texas.

“I’m homesick,” Sally was wailing
when more animal trouble appeared.

A huge moose wobbled out of the

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY

 

forest on long ungainly legs and
started to cross the road ahead. Tex
slammed on the brakes. The car
stopped squarely in the animal’s
path. ‘

Instead of detouring, the moose
clambered up the fender and Onto
the hood, breaking the windshield
with a sweep of its huge antlers in
the process. Its soft, pendulous nose
was trembling as though it Were
about to burst into tears.

Then the animal hunched itself
until its haunches were higher than
its head, gallumped down the right
fender and wandered off among the
trees while Pooch had hysterics in
the front seat of the car.

“Homesick, did I say?” Sally
gasped. “l’m petrifiedl”

{1 C3 0

They arrived at the Swanson River
ﬁeld without further incident. Tex
reported at the headquarters Shack
and was assigned to lead a thirteen-
man exploration crew that would
head out into the wilderness the next
morning. He was also told to move
into one of the empty trailers, the
only type of housing available.

Their new home was parked on
high ground overlooking a wide
stretch of grayish muskeg swamp.
Although it was close to midnight by
the time they got settled, the spring
sun still hung on the horizon, bathing
the landscape in an eerie glow.
Strings of electric lamps on the drill
rigs made the scene even more un-
usual

Tex was awakened in the morning
by Sally‘s screams. Pooch was bark-
ing uncontrollahly. The trailer was
rocking like a ship in a storm. And
somewhere outside there was a mad
bawling that made his red hair stand
on end.

Dashing into the kitchenette, he
found his daughter backed into a
far corner, hands at her throat-

“That moose is here again,” She
sobbed. “He stuck his head right
through the window a minute ago
and now he’s got his horns caught
in the frame or something!”

With a final bellow and a jerk
that almost upset the trailer, the
clumsy creature freed itself and gal-
loped off.

“I want to go home.” Sally moane,d
as she flung herself into her fathers
arms.

“Me too,” said Pooch in dog 1311’

I962

 

 

 




 

 

 

guage as he tucked his tail between
his legs and crawled under the sink.

£3 it it

Finally Tex was able to leave his
family to report for work. One of
the men grinned after introductions
were made. “Ever seen a Kodiak?”

Tex met no Kodiak bears that day,
but moose, goats and Ball sheep
stopped browsing on the new green
of spruce undergrowth to watch
the little party as it jeeped along a
wide track through the forest.

“We planned to make this only
a 20-foot wide road,” one of the crew
explained. “But the regional refuge
supervisor up here asked us to make
it a hundred feet. He said the forest
was so thick it crowded out the un-
dergrowth so the animals couldn’t
ﬁnd food. The road let the green
stuff grow and now we drive through
a regular menagerie on our way to
and from work.”

As the day wore on, the ground
thawed and the jeeps began wallow-
ing up to their axles in mud.

Things got even worse when they
reached the “big burn” where they
were to run a seismograph test. A
forest ﬁre had raged over the area in
1947. Now it was made almost im-
passable by new low growth of
spruce and hemlock and a thick
animal population that kept getting
in the way of the vehicles.

Despite these handicaps and thick
clouds of gnats—called white socks
——the crew made rapid progress. By
late afternoon they were tired and
ready to head back towards camp.
Their watches said they had put in
eight hours of duty, but the sun had
hardly moved from its position above
the horizon.

a ﬁt {it

On their way back they picked
up a man in overalls, high boots and
lumberjacket who appeared out of
the forest shadows like a ghost.

“Pleased to meetcha,” said the
hitchhiker after he had been intro-
duced to Tex as Dan’l Arch, a home—
steader. “Sure is a convenience, this
road. Now I can get a lift into town
when I run o-uta grub. Used to be I
was stuck in here until the ground
dried out.”

“You didn’t talk that way, Dan’l,
the ﬁrst time I met you,” chuckled
one of the crewmen.

“Sure didn’t” the farmer agreed.
“Figured that you oil men were
gonna chop down all the trees and

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY, I962

make so much noise with your drillin’
that you’d scare the game away.

“But, doggon it, you’re spoon-
feedin’ the critters with this new
spruce browse. And the other day,
I saw a crew stOp drillin’ for the
whole day so they wouldn’t scare off
a flock of swans that was thinking of
nesting in the neighborhood!”

Dan’l grinned slowly. “I’ve sorta
changed my views since I’ve gotten
to know you oil fellows.”

it i} it

The three years that have passed
since that conversation took place
have seen a lot of changes.

The one-time ﬁshing village of
Kenai, for instance, now calls itself
The Oil Capital of Alaska. Trucks
carry d1ill pipe over newly—paved
streets past century-old log churches
and homesteads.

The rickety dock has been rebuilt
to berth equipment barges and large
steamships. A ﬁne road across the
peninsula connects Kenai with the
Alcan Highway.

The Four Royal Parkers have en-
larged their hamburger stand into
an excellent motel and restaurant.
There’s a new telephone exchange
and plans are being drawn for a new
school and hospital.

Relationships among oilmen,
townspeople and homesteaders have
improved with time. The sourdoughs
have come to understand that oil
development actually improves their
beloved animal preserve while rais—
ing the living standards of all its
inhabitants—including the game. The
moose population is at an all-time
high!

How have the Crogans reacted
to these changes? Tex has moved his
family out of the trailer and into a
ranch-type home. Sally now has a job
as a typist and ticket clerk for an air-
line serving Kenai.

“So many of our old friends in the
oil business have come up here to
work,” says Tex, “that I feel right at
home. And I’ve grown quite fond of
the silly moose.”

“They’re really elk, you know—
alces americanus, according to the
encyclopedia. Knowing they have
such a distinguished name keeps me
from hurting their feelings by laugh-
ing every time I see one.”

Pooch Grogan doesn’t agree. He
has known better spots and he con-
tinues to treat bears with caution and
the moose with very deep suspicion.

 

 

HUMANE ANIMAL CATCHERS

DOG CATCHERS ......... @ $10.50
Including 4 foot Pole
CAT CATCHEPRS .......... @ $16.50

oles are Extra
SEND FOR FREE ILLUSTRATED CATALOG

J. B. SEBRELL COMPANY ' .
30l S. San Pedro Street. L. A. [3, California

 

 

 

___’—,-

For Television
and
Group Showings

“Those

Animal
Actors"

l5 minutes—I 6mm—B & W

Actual training of a falling horse—
PATSY winners—

Animal actors at work

For information:

American Humane Ass'n.
Film Dept.
P.O. Box 1266A Denver 'I. Colo.

 

 

 

Man’s perfect
final tribute
to his

animal

tﬁends

 
   

— =  asks-.-

Available in three sizes for dogs, cats
and other small animals.

Low in cost;
unexcelled quality. Here is the practical
and way to bury pet
and humanely. For

more information, contact:

lAWlER MANUFACTURING CO.

appropriate
bodies—sanitarily

 

 

Montevallo, Alabama

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 93

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

35 «mo 10 AMIMMS

 

The Be Kind to Animals Week
POSTER for 1962

Prices for fhe
1962 BKA Week

Posfer are:

I-49 IO cents each. postpaid
50-249 8 cents each. plus postage
250-I000 7 cents each. plus postage
IOOI up bl/z cents each. plus postage
Imprint on quantiﬁes of 250 or more—$l2.50

Rush your order today fo:

The American Humane Association

Pos'l'er Dept.

P.O. Box 1266 Denver 1. Cole.

Page 94 THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY

 

 

Few people realize the actual
value of their dog. It’s not only
the money spent that counts,
but also the years of conscientious
care and lavished affection that
may make a healthy, happy Pet

worth thousands of dollars.

What’s
a Dog

Really
Worth?

“GUNSMOKE,” a champion show
dog, was found in his kennel, victim
of a heart attack. But his insurance
policy brought his owners $3,000
worth of material consolation.

“King,” a household mongrel, was
run down by a careless driver. His
owners collected $500 in cash.

Most dogs aren’t insured. But the
availability of dog insurance lends
graphic proof to the fact that ROVCT
and his pals are recognized as valu-
able members of society.

“Yet most people don’t realize that
a dog’s worth is usually far more than
the actual purchase price at the
kennel or the donation at the humane
shelter. A pet is one of the few p61"
sonal possessions that increases in
value with time rather than depre-
ciates,” according to Clarence
Fawcett, noted dog authority.

Why? “A pet, over the yeal‘S, rep-
resents an additional substantial caS
outlay for food, veterinarians, care
and training,” savs Fawcett. “HOW‘
ever, this increase in value is diI‘ECtly
Proportional to the intelligent an

I962

 

 

 

 




aflectionate care the owner gives his
pet,” he warns.

The accumulated value of a pet
over a few years sometimes can run
into thousands of dollars. The in-
creased interest in dogs during the
past decade has brought about the
development of a number of special
services and fancy accessories for the
dog owner.

On the exotic side of the picture,
no little pooch has to wander “naked”
in the streets for want of fashionable
clothing. There are mink coats,
trench coats, sweaters and jeweled
collars available if the owners want
to give their dogs the sartorial
elegance of a Beau Brummel. Some
owners deck their pets in luxury;
others trot them off to psychiatrists,
beauty parlors and tailors all to the
tune of nearly $150,000,000 per year.

Combine these goodies with the
essentials of the dog world—prepared
dog foods, medicines, veterinarians,
kennels, breeders—and the tail-wag-
gers account for an industry that is
estimated at $500,000,000 annually!

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY. I962

 

“An unrestrained shopping trip for
dog accessories can soon increase the
investment in your dog to astronomi-
cal proportions,” according to Faw-
cett. “However, all the extras really
mean little if your dog isn’t in top
physical condition.”

Every dog, pedigreed or mongrel,
deserves the best possible diet and
medical care. Today both are avail—
able at reasonable cost. New ad-
vances in the development of pre-
pared dog foods offer better bal-
anced diets than many humans get
during their entire lives; many of
the advanced medical services for
human ailments are now being
adapted to canine medicine.

The value of a pet can be approxi-
mated when the tangibles are toted
up. But there’s really no way of re-
placing with dollars the joy and
companionship of a healthy, happy
pet. Apart from the money you may
spend through the years, the incalcu-
lable sentimental value can make
your pet one of your most valuable
possessions, says Fawcett.

 

 

 

WATCH FOR

The American Humane
Association
Regional Conference
in your area
HELP Your Organization

Other Organizations
ATTEND A
REGIONAL CONFERENCE

Watch AHA publications for dates

or write to AHA for full information.

 

 

 

 

 

LIKE TO
0 PUT ON 0

0 SO DO WE...°

. . . AND HAVE

DOG LICENSE AND

RABIES VACCINE TAGS
NOW AVAILABLE IN 4 BRIGHT
ANODIZED ALUMINUM COLORS!

PLAIN ALUMINUM & BRIGHT BRASS ALSO STILL
AVAILABLE IN 2] DIFFERENT DESIGNS . . . .

WRITE FOR DETAILS.

THE I. P. COOKE CO.

1111 Farnam Street, Omaha 2, Nebr.
Phone 342-7175 Area Code 402

 

Page 95

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

By ANN MARIE LONG

 

OM CAME BO‘UNDING into the

kitchen, slamming the door so
hard that Mother, who was stirring
stew, dropped her spoon into the
hot mixture.

“For mercy’s sake, Tom, you don’t
need to scare a person half to death.
Go back now and shut that door
properly.”

I stopped setting the table and
watched. Tom must have some
pretty exciting news. He hadn’t
argued once about obeying Mother.
As he opened the door, Father on
the other side looked up in surprise.

“Well, I don’t usually get this kind
of service,” he said, stepping inside.

“Now that everyone’s here, I can
tell you my news,” Tom said, swag-
gering a bit. “I was going past
George’s—you know, George that has
the candy and magazine stand? He
has a shoe shine parlor there too.”

“Of course we know George,”
Mother said. “Go on.”

“Well, George came running out
of the place and said ‘I hear you
folks are boarding animals this
winter.’ I told him we were taking
care of judge Lyon’s dog while the
judge was in Florida and Mrs. Car-
roll’s love-birds and cat while she
was visiting her daughter.”

Tom savored the words slowly.
“Then George asked if we would take
care of Baby while he went to the
hospital for an operation.” Tom
paused and looked around at us.
“Imagine him choosing US to take
care of Baby!”

Mother looked bewildered. “Who
is Baby?”

Tom looked at her in disbelief.
“You don’t know who Baby is? Why

Page 96

I thought everybody in this town
knew Baby!”

“Well, I don’t,” Mother said. “Who
is Baby?”

“Baby,” Tom said, “is the cutest
thing you ever saw. She’s a little
monkey and she’s the only monkey
in this whole town!”

Mother yelped and dropped the
spoon again. “Absolutely not! We’re
not boarding any monkeys!”

Tom and I looked at her indig-
nantly. With practically everyone in
town just dying for a chance to take
Baby, our Mother was protesting it.

“But I promised!” Tom’s voice was
earnest. “You’re the one who’s al-
ways telling us to keep our promises.
Now here’s poor George going to the
hospital for an operation, and you
don’t want us to take Baby. Maybe
George’ll even die worrying about
Baby!”

Mother yelped again. “Look, I’m
surrounded by animals day and
night. Who is it that gets up nights
when they’re sick? And for your in—
formation, I just don’t fancy myself
being nursemaid to a monkey!”

“Poor George,” Tom sighed.

Mother started dishing up the eve-
ning meal. “I’m sorry for George,
and I wish we could help him. He’s
a good boy.” She put a dish down
ﬁrmly on the table. “But monkeys!
N 0 thank you! No! No!”

Father walked over and put his
arms around Mother. “Why don’t
you let them take care of this mon-
key. It’ll be for only a couple of
weeks and George will get better
faster if he knows his pet is being
taken care of properly. Besides, you
might even learn to like Baby.”

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY

 

Touchdown

for

Baby

Mother looked around at us. “You
cm’t win around here. You just can’t
win.”

She turned toward Tom. “I guess
I’ve had enough practice to know
when I’m licked. But, Tom, you’ll
keep that creature in your room.”

“Sure, sure,” Tom said hastily.

“And Tom,” she added, “he care—
ful. I can’t bear to think of fleas in
my house, so please keep him in a
cage.

“Baby’s a she,” Tom said.

“She or he—keep that cage door
closed!”

The day we brought Baby home,
everybody in town seemed to have
an excuse to drop by our house.

“I’ve felt like a zoo keeper today,”
Mother complained wearily that
night. “Even the dogs were bringing
in their friends to see that monkey.”

Mother hung up a dishtowel, then
turned toward the bedroom. “I don’t
know about the rest of you but I’m
going to bed early. If ever I needed
a good night’s rest. this is it!”

Father, Tom and I hung around
Baby’s cage, talking to her and play-
ing with her. “Aren’t we lucky,
though?” Tom asked. “just imagine
having Baby here for two whole
weeks.”

“Will you please settle down for
the night?” Mother called from the
bedroom. “It’s time vou all were
asleep.” I

It was nearly midnight when I
heard Mother scream. “There’s some-
thing in this room. I felt it fly past
my face.”

I heard Father’s feet hit the floor,
and heard him snap on the light.

I don’t see a thing,” he said.

I962




 

 

 

 

 

Mother screeched again. “There
it is, right over there!”

Tom and I reached the room at
that moment.

“It’s the monkey,” Mother
screamed. “Get it out of here.”

Then we saw Baby, sitting atop
the bedpost, her long tail curled
around it, and she was munching on
an apple core that Tom had left on
his dresser.

“How did she get out of her cage,”
Father demanded to know.

“I . . . I forgot,” Tom stuttered.
“George told me that I’d have to wire
the cage door shut. Baby knows how
to open it otherwise.”

“Fine time to think of that now,”
Father grunted and moved toward
Baby. Baby stared at him in silence,
then puckered her wizened face into
what looked like a grin.

Mother leaped from the bed and
ran barefooted toward the kitchen.
“When you get her back in her cage,
call me. In the meantime, I’ll be in
the kitchen with the door closed!”

Tom reach for Baby, but she
swung gracefully to the opposite
post. Father stretched toward her
and she chattered gaily as she
leaped to the third post.

“We ought to have her on our
football team,” Tom said. “Boy,
what a touchdown expert she’d
make.”

“After this performance, she’s go-
ing to have a full time job making
a touchdown with our Mother,”
Father said drily. Then he told Tom
to stand at the head of the bed
while he stood at the foot. “We’re
bound to catch her this way.”

Baby cocked her head to listen,
then grinned like a naughty child.
Tom moved toward her and she
skimmed past him, landing on the
dresser. There she found a bottle
of perfume that Uncle Herbert, our
successful uncle, had brought to
Mother from New York. It was one
of Mother’s prized possessions.

Baby lifted the bottle curiously,
sniffed at it, shook it—all the time
keeping a wary eye on Tom who
was coming close to her.

“Here, Baby,” Tom coaxed,
stretching out his arm. Baby stiffened
and with deliberate aim, hurled the
bottle at him. Tom ducked and the
bottle crashed to the ﬂoor in shat-
ters. The odor of lilies of the valley
ﬁlled the room.

Mother came running from the
kitchen. Her eyes fell upon the

THE NATIONAL HUMANE- REVIEW—JANUARY-FEBRUARY. I962

broken glass.

“My perfume. My lovely perfume,”
she half sobbed. “The nicest I’ve
ever had.” Then, brusquely, she
turned to Tom. “Get the broom and
dustpan. Get that glass swept up
before someone gets it in his feet.”

“Where’s Baby?” Father asked.

Just then, from the kitchen came
a loud commotion. Pete, the parrot,
was angry. “Get goin’,” he screamed,
“get goin’.” The lovebirds, roused
from sleep began screeching and
Sweeney, the dog, barked in turn at
Pete.

We reached the kitchen in time to
see Baby swing herself to the top of
Pete’s cage. Then she saw a piece of
apple on the floor of the cage. With
a yell of delight, she reached for it.
Wary old Pete had anticipated this
and with a swipe of his beak, he
ripped wide a place on her arm.

Baby screamed and rushed to
Tom. She was trembling as he picked
her up and cuddled her.

Suddenly Mother seemed to lose
all resentment toward Baby. Here
was a little creature who needed
help. She got out a pan, poured
warm water in it, then got a fresh
bar of soap from the pantry.

“Hold her firmly, but gently, Tom,”
she said as she proceeded to bathe
the wound. Baby sobbed and buried
her face against Tom’s chest. Then
Mother put salve upon the wound
and wrapped it with a clean, soft
cloth.

“I think we’d better bring her cage
into the kitchen. The bedroom isn’t
very warm and I don’t want her
catching cold now.” She patted Baby
and put her in my arms.

Tom and Father carried the cage
to the kitchen and set it down on a
chair near the register. From the
closet, Mother brought a clean, old
blanket which she tore in two. She
put one piece of blanket in the cage
and draped the other around the
cage to shut out any draft. I put
Baby into the cage and she clung to
the side of it, whimpering and plead-
m .

“Maybe she’s hungry,” Mother
said. She took a slice of bread and
liberally smeared peanut butter on
it, then topped it with grape jelly.
Baby reached for it eagerly. And
while we all hovered around her,
Baby ate first, the layer of jelly, then
the peanut butter, and gravely
handed the bread back to Mother.

“She wants more,” Tom said. “I

 

think she was too scared and excited
to eat much tonight.” .

Baby opened her mouth in a wide}
grin when Mother brought the bread
back. Slowly she savored it, covertlv
watching our reaction.

“The little rascal likes having an
audience,” Father chuckled. Just at
that moment Baby looked up at us
and nodded, as if she understood
what Father said.

“She won’t settle down as long as
there are so many of us around,”
Mother said, and then glancing at
the clock, “Scoot, all of you! It’s late.
I’ll stay with her and keep her quiet
for a while.”

Each of us had to hold Baby and
pat her before bidding her good-
night. She watched us go across the
room to the hallway, her little face
screwed up as if ready to explode
in tears.

“Never mind, Baby, never mind,”
we heard Mother say.

I fell asleep immediately, but
awakened later, thirsty. The night
light in the kitchen was burning. I
stepped into the room, noticing at
once that Baby’s cage was empty.
The blanket that had been around
it, too, was missing. Had Baby gotten
loose again? If so, she’d really need
a touchdown to get in Mother’s good
graces again.

As my eyes became accustomed to
the dimness of the room, I saw
Mother sitting in her rocker by the
bay window. On her lap, securely
wrapped in the blanket, was the
little monkey. I stopped and stared
at Mother in surprise.

“She’s lonely,” Mother said. “Poor
little thing—lonely and frightened.”

Baby roused, blinked, yawned and
burrowed deeper into the blanket.
I went on to the sink and got my
drink. Then I looked at the clock and
noticed that it was nearly morning.

“Let me hold her for a while,” I
said. “You’re tired and you need
sleep.” ,'

Mother shook her head. “I don’t
want her to get that bandage off and
scratch her sore arm.”

“Is that the only reason that you’re
holding her?” I asked.

“Well,” mother began defensively,
and then a smile curle‘d around the
corners of her mouth as she pulled
Baby closer.

“She’s such a little thing, and—
well, even a small monkey has feel-
ings, you know.”

Page 97

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 98

E HOPE THAT THIS GOLDEN ANNIVERSARY

issue of T he National H umcme Review has helped you

to understand better the work of The American Humane
Association and of your local humane organization.

We hope, too, that you will help the Association to continue its
work. You can help in many ways: by keeping fully informed (the
Association has two other regular publications in addition to the
Review and numerous pamphlets and booklets on various subjects);
by your exempliﬁcation of kindness; and with your ﬁnancial assistance.

The American Humane Association must depend on you to help
support its continued and increasing nationwide and international
services. You can play a prominent part in the Association’s vital work
through cash donations, capital gifts, insurance policies, bequests.
(Because of the technical nature of wills, contracts, etc., we suggest
that you consult an attorney.) All gifts to The American Humane
Association are deductible for income taX purposes.

Another of the many important ways in which you can help The
American Humane Association is to become a regular subscriber to
The National H umcme Review. You can also help by entering gift
subscriptions for those who are interested in animal welfare. And
you can help by increasing the circulation of the Review—through
distribution to libraries, schools and the general public—so that
people everywhere will receive the message of humane education
contained in the pages of this magazine. With your help in these ways,
The American Humane Association will be able to reach an ever in-
creasing number of people who are or would become active in sup—
porting the humane movement.

Only through your assistance and support Will The American Hu—
mane Association achieve its goals on behalf of those we serve.

THE NATIONAL HUMANE REVIEW—JANUARY—FEBRUARY. I962

 




 

A NATURAL HUMANE ASSOCIATION

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

\J
r I /
3?; ‘
$3.. . ‘23 _
t i-
:"4 at: '
5. ‘ %
i M?¢M

 

 




 

.’\. ~v .A-{seg-t‘r— ’

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Chﬂdhood
' ~ E d U C Ofi 0 n

The Community Educates

I 1 4
_ ' May 1962

 

 




 

WANDA ROBERTSON, Chairman
Professor of Education
University of Utah

BOARD OF EDITORS

 

MARGARET RASMUSSEN, Editor
3615 Wisconsin Avenue, N.W.

Washington 16, D. C.

Salt Lake City, Utah

JEAN M. ADAMSON

Director

Lady Gowrie Child Centre
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia

MONROE D. COHEN

Assistant Professor of Curriculum
and Instruction

College of Education

The University of Texas

Austin, Texas

RUTH CORNELIUS
Teacher

Public Schools

St. Louis, Missouri

AMY HOSTLER

President

Mills College of Education
New York, New York

WILLIAM H. KILPATRICK
Professor Emeritus of Education
Teachers College

Columbia University

New York, New York

NORMA R. LAW

Associate Professor of Education
Wayne State University

Detroit, Michigan

ELIZABETH ANN LIDDLE
Professor of Education
Wheelock College
Boston, Massachusetts

LUCILE LINDBERG, President
Queens College

The City University of New York
Flushing, New York

MARY A. LAYFIELD, Vice-President
Representing Nursery School

Auburn University

Auburn, Alabama

JOHN JULIA MCMAHAN
Assistant Professor of
Education and Director,
Nursery School-Kindergarten
New Mexico State University
University Park, New Mexico

CHARLOTTE MEYER

Assistant Superintendent in Charge
of Elementary Education

Public Schools

Decatur, Illinois

ARNOLD E. MILLS
Teacher

Public Schools
Lafayette, Indiana

BETHEL FRY MORRIS

Consultant in Elementary
Education

Woodland, California

MABEL JEAN MORRISON
Elementary Supervisor
Leon County Schools
Tallahassee, Florida

CONNIE NIELSEN
Teacher

Jordan School District
Sandy, Utah

AGNES SNYDER

Professor Emeritus

Adelphi College

Garden City, L.I., New York

ACEI EXECUTIVE BOARD

ERMA NOBLE, Vice-President
Representing Kindergarten

Public Schools

Grand Rapids, Michigan

RUBY D. MCINNES, Vice-President
Representing Primary

Western Washington College
of Education

Bellingham, Washington

ALBERTA L. MEYER,

Executive Secretary

3615 Wisconsin Avenue, N.W.
Washington 16, D. C.

MARGARET S. WOODS

Specialist in Creative Dramatics
School of Education

Seattle Paciﬁc College

Seattle, Washington

ROBBIE RUTH YOUNG
Teacher

Public Schools

Port Arthur, Texas

AMONG THE MAGAZINES

JULIA MASON HAVEN
Professor of Education
University of Miami
Coral Gables, Florida

BOOKS FOR ADULTS

HELEN L. SAGL

Associate Professor of Education
School of Education

Indiana University

Bloomington, Indiana

BOOKS FOR CHILDREN

HAZEL WILSON

Associate Professor

George Washington University
Washington, D. C

BUL‘LETINS AND PAMPHLETS

MARIAN JENKINS

Consultant, Elementary Education
Los Angeles County Schools

Los Angeles, California

SUE ARBUTHNOT, Vice-President

Representing Intermediate
The University of Nebraska
Lincoln, Nebraska

JOHNIE M. BAKER,
Secretary-Treasurer
Public Schools
Wichita Falls, Texas

REPRINTS—Orders for reprints from this issue (no less than 50) must be received by ACEI, 3615 Wisconsin
Avenue, N.W., Washington 16, D. C., by the ﬁfteenth of the month.

Microﬁlm copies of Vols.

30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37 are available.

(For details, write to University

Microﬁlms, 313 N. First St., Ann Arbor, Mich.) Sept. 1961 through May 1962 (Vol. 38) will be available when
volume 13 completed. Purchase of current volumes is restricted to subscribers to CHILDHOOD EDUCATION.




4«\.

For Those
Concerned with

Children 2-12

 

To Stimulate Thinking
Rather Than Advocate
Fixed Practices

 

 

 

CONTENTS FOR MAY 1962

The Community Educates

Volume 38 Number 9

The Community Educates 407 Norma R. Law
Community Inﬂuences on Children 409 Ruth Blumenfeld

The Culturally Deprived
—A Matter of Concern 412 Charles Mitchell

An Architect Plans for Children 421 William F. Vosbeck
Befriending Animals 426 Christine Stevens

Concerns for Children Are World Wide
. . . In Brazil 430 Clyde 1. Martin

News Here and There 433 Alberta L. Meyer
Books for Children 435 Hazel Wilson
Books for Adults 440 Helen L. Sagl
Bulletins and Pamphlets 445 Marian Jenkins
Index for Volume 38 (1961-62) 449
Over the Editor’s Desk 451 Margaret Rasmussen

D U C A T l 0 NA L ALBERTA L. MEYER, Business Mgr.

RESS A H. HISLE Ad rt' ' M .
SSOCIATION ”DA ’ 06 18mg gr

   
 

MARGARET RASMUSSEN, Editor
LUCY PRETE, Assistant Editor

Subscription $4.50. International membership (includes subscription to CHILDHOOD EDUCATION and Branch
Exchange, Yearbook and all bulletins as released) $10. Life membership 35100. Single copies 75 cents. Send

‘ orders to 3615 Wisconsin Avenue, N. W., Washington 16, D. C. Second-class postage paid at Washington, D. C.

Copyright 1962. Association for Childhood Education International, Washington 16, D. C.

Published Monthly September through May by
ASSOCIATION FOR CHILDHOOD EDUCATION INTERNATIONAL
3615 Wisconsin Avenue, N. W., Washington 16, D. C.

 




     

Original color woodcut by Leona Pierce

“Street Carousel”

 

 




 

 

 

By NORMA R. LAW

The Community Educates

EVERYONE IS TAUGHT BY THE LIFE HE LEADS IN THE HUMAN COMMUNITY.

The Family

If he is born into an American family he is likely to live his earliest
years in a relatively small and separate household with the responsi-
bility for meeting his physical and emotional needs concentrated on his
two parents and maybe an older brother or sister. It is no accident that
“togetherness” has become a byword for middle-class, urban and
suburban, family life in this country. Whether it denotes more than
superﬁcial proximity must give pause for thought.

In such self-dependent and often highly mobile units where natural
needs for the expression of aggression must be denied, a premium is
placed on love and harmony. What the child learns here deserves
serious study. Is this tight interdependence restrictive of anger and
therefore conducive to it? Is it, rather, mutually supportive where
every member can come to value himself and others by helping and
beng helped?

Other cultures nourish their children in different types of family
community structures. Each recognizes that What is learned in the
family is foundational to how other and later communities will be
perceived.

The School and the Neighborhood

Increasing urbanization limits space and privacy for play and
for living accommodations. Neighborhood life—by becoming more
organized and less spontaneous—may be cutting off Opportunitiesfor
adventure and Vigorous activity upon which young learners thrive. On
the other hand, it may also multiply the chances for necessary com-
munity services to individual citizens and to families.

Can schools, for example, build upon family strengths or partially
compensate for neighborhood inadequacies? How may such schools
gear themselves for the enthusiastic respect of human uniqueness and
potential?

The school community that serves educative needs best is likely to
engage in creative and full-time listening and give generously of its

MAY 1962

407




 

 

 

 

408

sympathy and support. Such a community warms to questions, seeks
answers and discusses differences freely. It knows that each person
learns only what he agrees to attend to. How can it help him then come
to understand and appreciate the points of View of others and to select
and live intelligently with his own?

Personal Commitment

It is possible, also, to belong concurrently to one or more interest
communities which are neither geographically nor culturally deter-
mined. Often they cut across boundaries of age and status, race and
familial origins.

Church afﬁliations provide such a community. It has religious tradi-
tions in common which may be reinforced by special Observances,
attendance at a parochial school or group worship.

Swimmer, artist, mechanic, trumpeter, animal lover—each may
come to identify himself deeply with a social cluster whose enthusiasms
and aspirations closely match his own. Vocations become avocations
when people of like professions meet. Personal commitment to an
interest invariably ﬁnds its own community.

The Country and the World

What a particular society treasures determines how it goes about
caring for and teaching its children. The task in a democracy is highly
complex. Do its motivating values cluster about freedom and responsi-
bility, self-assertion and interdependence, agreement and disagreement
at the same time?

As the world community shrinks, communication extends beyond the
family, beyond the school, beyond the immediate neighborhood, beyond
the nurturing society. No one can remain unaware of and not responsible
for anyone, anywhere, any longer. The world has never been so small.
This may very well be the “teachable moment” for learning human
cooperation.

The community educates.

Norma R. Law is associate in elementary education and director of Wayne State
University Nursery School at Jeﬁries Homes, Detroit.

MATURITY IS THE ABILITY TO SEE A JOB THROUGH, NO MATTER WHAT.
It is the inherent desire always to give more than is asked for or
required . . . the quality of dependability that makes people say,
“There’s a reliable person.” It is independence of thought and action.
Maturity represents the capacity to cooperate, to work with others
. . . to work under authority. The mature person is pliable and can
alter his desires according to time, persons and circumstance. He is
tolerant . . . patient . . . adaptable . . . If all people and all nations
had these qualities there could be no wars—EDWARD A. STRECKER
in Their Mothers’ Sons. Copyright 1946 by J. B. Lippincott Co.,
Philadelphia.

CHILDHOOD EDUCATION

\j‘ 44' “ﬁrst /‘ A




\‘4 . ~4ve 9“...” ,—— A A

 

 

By RUTH BLUMENFELD

Community Inﬂuences on Children

Ruth Blumenfeld, research instructor of anthropology in psychiatry,
Psychiatric Institute, University of Maryland Medical School, Baltimore,
describes enculturation processes in nonliterate and civilized communities.

PERHAPS THE MOST SIGNIFICANT CON-
tribution cultural anthropology will have
made to the eventual understanding of
man’s human career through time and
space will be the perspective brought by
the comparative or “cross-cultural” ap-
proach. Certainly the task of identifying
critical structures, institutions and proc-
esses in the complex cultural system of
contemporary American society has been
greatly facilitated by insights derived
from knowledge of life in smaller, less
complex societies, in which elemental
institutions and processes of culture
stand out in sharp relief. The relation-
ship of community structure to the way
in which a culture is transmitted to suc-
cessive generations—the process which
the anthropologist terms “enculturation”
——may also be illuminated by a compari-
son of the relevant institutions in non-
literate and civilized societies.

The process whereby the human
neonate is incorporated into an ongoing
cultural system may be divided into
three primary areas of learning. Two of
these are present in all human societies.
Training in subsistence techniques, or
how to make a living, is intended to make
the individual productive and socially
useful and to increase the group’s wealth
and strength. The second universal
aspect of. cultural transmission is that of
regulatory training, whereby the group

MAY 1962

indoctrinates its young in the socially
approved attitudes, values and ethical
beliefs. Regulatory training is intended
to make the individual want to act as he
has to act by fostering the internalization
of societal values. Education, in the
narrow sense of “schooling,” is the third
area of cultural learning and is not uni—
versal. “Schooling” appears to be
limited essentially to civilized societies,
societies with a literate tradition. The
three kinds of cultural learning may be
considered different aspects of a unitary
process whereby the individual learns to
master and manipulate his culture.

N onliterate Community

Although the character of life lived by
groups of nomadic hunters, coastal food-
gatherers and settled agricultural peas-
ants differs in many respects, certain
characteristic community features are
typically found in nonliterate cultures
around the globe. In each there is the
quality of distinctiveness; where the
community begins and ends is apparent.
The community is also homogeneous.
“Activities and states of mind are much
alike for all persons in corresponding seX
and age positions; and the career of one
generation repeats that of the preceding
generation.” 1 In this sense, homoge-

1 Robert Redﬁeld, The Little Community. Viewpoints for the
Study of a Human Whole (Chicago: The University of Chicago
Press, 1955), p. 4.

409

 




 

 

neous is equivalent to slow-changing. A
third distinctive quality of this type of
community is its self-sufﬁciency. The
small, nonliterate community is a cradle-
to-the-grave arrangement.

The homogeneity of the culture within
such communities makes for a unity of
cultural aims, teaching objectives, and
methods of inculcating them in the young.
This leaves little room for conﬂict be-
tween the directives given by different
socializing agents. The unity of teaching
objectives is particularly important in
light of the fact that the training of the
young in such communities is typically a
collective affair. All members of the
extended family—any member of the
community who happens to pass by—
will say something to correct the mis-
behavior of the child. Besides overt
training by adults in the community, a
good deal of the primitive child’s educa-
tion, in the broad sense, is the result of
observing adult participants in various
ceremonials and watching while a parent
or other adult goes about daily tasks. The
canons of proper behavior are also taught
through the recitation of folk tales by the
elders. Personality traits of heroes and
heroines in these tales are directly re-
lated to demands of the workaday world
as they have taken form in the particular
culture.

There are no well-deﬁned boundaries
in the learning process between work,
play and ceremonial affairs; the child
moves easily from one to another of these
activities throughout the days of his child-
hood. From his earliest years the child
has been continuously engaged in learn-
ing the techniques he must later employ
in making a living. Young girls will
carry light articles and try to make clay
pots just as boys of ﬁve or six will practice
hurling sticks in anticipation of the time
when they will throw the hunter’s spear.

410

 

The child’s preparation for participation
in social and ceremonial life of the group .
is similarly characterized by an early
beginning and a gradual incorporation
into the various institutions of the adult
world.

Within the cultural matrix of the non-
literate community, the nature of the
enculturative process is one of synchronic
and diachronic consistency and inte-
gration. Activities of childhood hear an
obvious and direct relationship to future
adult roles. The homogeneity and slow
rate of change within the culture enable
adults to be conﬁdent of the wisdom they
impart, directly in the form of instruc-
tion and indirectly in their effectiveness
as behavioral models for the child.

Community in American Society

Contemporary American society is
composed of two types of subcultural
groups. One type includes immigrants
and early generation descendants of im-
migrants who preserve traditional beliefs
and practices of a culture other than
General American Culture. The second
type of subculture, although wholly
“American” in the sense that it maintains
a way of life indigenous to America, re-
ﬂects regional and socio-economic differ-
ences which are great enough to make for
signiﬁcant differences in group behavior
patterns and value orientations. Another
difference between groups which ap-
proaches the order of a subcultural dif-
ference is that created by the rapid rate
of change within our cultural system.
The culture learned and lived by one
generation is radically altered within its
lifetime; each generation’s ability to
transmit a functioning, ongoing culture
is thus impaired.

For over a century, the public school
in the United States has served to impart
the skills of literacy to an ever-increasing
percentage of the population. Except for

CHILDHOOD EDUCATION




a few specialized occupations, such as
medicine and law, subsistence training in
the middle of the last century was handled
by the family or community. Regulatory
training was largely a family function as
well, with reinforcement of the idealized
values coming from church and com-
munity sources.

As the number of immigrants to the
United States rose in the last decades of
the nineteenth century, the public school
began to assume an increasingly impor-
tant role in the transmission of cultural
beliefs and practices other than intellec-
tual skills. The public school teacher
served to provide a behavioral model of
socially approved, middle-class American
culture. The same conditions account for
the development of national and com-
munity organizations designed to foster
ideals of General American Culture.
Camp Fire Girls and Boy Scouts are but
two examples. In the twentieth century,
mass media have also tended to supply
models and values that youth could turn
to when the family models, either through
subcultural or generational differences,
appeared to be inadequate representa-
tives of contemporary American culture.
Still another phenomenon which is pres-
ent in all human societies, but has reached
unprecedented importance as socializer
in this country, is that of youth or peer
culture as a source of models and as a
general reference group. That world
images and idealized personality types
presented by these institutions often
differ radically is too well known to re-
quire further comment.

Decline in the family’s significance as
transmitter of subsistence techniques is
vividly illustrated in Elkin’s story “of

the four-year-old boy playing ‘Daddy’
who put on his hat and coat, said ‘Good-
bye,7 and walked out of the front door,
only to return a few minutes later because
he didn’t know what to do next.” 2 Addi-
tion of vocational curriculum together
with the fact that present-day occupations
require an ever-inereasing amount of
formal preparation have increased the
school’s importance as socializer in the
area of subsistence training.

Two features of the enculturative
process in contemporary American so-
ciety are outstanding in light of the brief
description of cultural transmission in
nonliterate communities given above. The
great burden of responsibility for the
enculturation of the child placed upon
a single extrafamilial institution—the
school—is striking. Equally impressive
is the degree of inconsistency in cultural
messages being transmitted to the child.
We note that learning theorists have
stressed the crucial importance of con-
sistency and adequate motivation in the
learning situation. To focus On one
source of contradiction in the Child’s
experience, too great a discrepancy be-
tween the idealized cultural system pre-
sented in school and social realities of
the child’s world can make for apathy,
disillusionment and delinquency. It is
noteworthy that in many small, non-
literate cultures recently caught up in
the ﬂux of rapid culture change stem-
ming from contact with the expanding
civilizations of East and West, apathetic
and delinquent responses rise as the dis-
crepancy between idealized and realized
cultural systems increases.

2Frederick Elkin, The Child and Society: The Process 0/
Socialization (New York: Random House, Inc., 1961). p. 54.

WE ARE GIVEN THE EARTH, AND ALL ELSE THAT MAKES IT.
There is an obligation on us of thanks, and a vow
of Cherishing.—ALLAN DEVOE

MAY 1962

41]

 




 

 

 

The Culturally Deprived

 

By CHARLES MITCHELL

—A Matter of Concern

The Great Cities Program for School Improvement, Detroit Public Schools,
directed by Carl L. Marburger, is one of fourteen experiments being
carried on in the United States. This report is made by Charles Mitchell,

GC SI P sta/jt writer.

FIVE YEARS AGO IN ATLANTIC CITY,
superintendents and board members of
fourteen large-city (600,000 plus) school
systems1 met and concluded that imme-
diate steps should be taken to ﬁnd ways
to improve the education of culturally
deprived city children. From this begin-
ning has grown a now nationwide edu-
cational experiment called the Great
Cities School Improvement Project.

In Detroit and other large cities across
the nation are concentrated families
whose children are severely hampered in
their schooling by a complex of com-
munity, home and school conditions. To
engage the total problem faced by urban
educators, we shall make a brief foray
into the social pathology which produced
it.

Change in the population of the inner
cores of most large cities has created
areas Where the majority of children
have extraordinary needs which the
public schools are not prepared to meet.
Where once the inner city population was
typically “all kinds,” it has now become
"typically stratiﬁed. The majority of

1Baltimore, Boston, Buffalo. Chicago, Cleveland. Detroit, Los
Angeles, Milwaukee, New York. Philadelphia. Pittsburgh, San
Francisco, St. Louis and Washington.

412

upper and middle income urbanites have
moved to the suburbs or to the outer
rings of the city. The population that
remains is predominantly unskilled or
semi-skilled low-income racial and ethnic
minorities. When representatives of other
strata moved out, the vacuum was ﬁlled
by southern Appalachian white and
southern Negro in-migrants similar in
many ways to low-income minority groups
that had remained in the inner city.

Many of the city manufacturing and
service industries have followed the
upper and middle income exodus and
proliferated outward. What remains is
the glowing downtown section, a great
multi-story civic and merchandising com-
plex, serviced by expressways and sur-
rounded by mile upon mile of slums and
“transitional” or “gray” areas, still con-
taining a few pockets of more affluent
residential areas and high rent apart-
ment districts. A

From these slums and transitional
areas come more than one-third of the
3,200,000 children now enrolled in
America’s fourteen largest school sys-
tems. Many of them are culturally de-
prived, and most of them are concen-
trated in the inner city schools.

CHILDHOOD EDUCATION

 




 

 

 

 

I“. ‘

Children Who Lack Opportunities

This term—“culturally deprived”—-——
what does it mean? To the hard-phrasers,
it means “slum child from a slum neigh-
borhood,” and educators have been
accused of veiling both child and difﬁ-
culty in the evasive euphemism of “cul-
turally deprived” and “transitional
neighborhood.” In fact, to translate the
whole problem into “slum child from a
slum neighborhood” is not valid. Slum
children are not necessarily culturally
deprived, and vice versa. The term is too
out and dried, and we cannot be content
to use it as a label. Children and their
families resist such labeling. That is
why we have accepted “culturally de-
prived” as a useful, relatively objective
term to apply to the child who lacks
enough of the opportunities and ad-
vantages normally available to most
American children and is therefore
unable to make satisfactory progress in a
typical school.

In Detroit, the Great Cities Project is
working through seven schools,2 involv-
ing 420 school personnel and 10,400
children and their families. The project
budget is composed in part of Board of
Education funds and in part of funds
from The Ford Foundation.

The families of these children live for
the most part in low-cost public housing
or in actual slums—overcrowded, sub-
standard multiple dwellings of every type
——or in single and two-family homes in
neighborhoods which are, in reality,
transitional.3

2 Burton Elementary, Couzens Elementary, Franklin Elementary,
Marcy Elementary, Barbour Junior High School, Jeﬂ'erson
Junior High School and Eastern High School.

3 At a glance, these homes seem quite substantial. They were
viewed as such by a writer at work on an article about the Great
Cities Project. who visited a project junior high school and its
neighborhood and commented wryly: “So this is a slum? Wish
we had it so good in New York.” The School-Community Agent,
one of the extra personnel hired by the project to do community
organization and social work for the school, suggested that the
writer might visit some of the homes and see what sad situations
exist behind their still-neat facades. The neighborhood is not
yet a slum. physically, but its people are in difﬁcult straits, and
the children reﬂect this in school.

MAY 1962

The families of these children may
have resided in Detroit for many years;
but most came during and immediately
after the Second World War to ﬁll in-
dustry’s needs for unskilled labor or are
very recent in-migrants from rural areas,
particularly rural areas of the southern
states, who shifted from a land of no
current or foreseeable opportunity to a
land of possible—maybe—opportunity.

Adjustment to City

Most in-migrants to Detroit are un-
skilled or semi skilled. They and their
families must usually adjust to city life
without the beneﬁt of steady income and
without previous experience in seeking
help from private and public community
services. The proudly independent south-
ern Appalachian white ﬁnds rabbit-
warren city life difﬁcult and as a non-
joiner is not inclined to turn to anyone
but his family and friends for help. His
southern. Negro counterpart has a differ-
ent sense of things and is more likely to
seek and ﬁnd help, though his adjustment
to city life is just as arduous and requires
as much or more perseverance as that of
the southern white.

These in-migrants come into a portion
of the total community which is frag-
mented and uncohesive, lacks trained
leadership and organization, and physi-
cally reflects the low, inconsistent income
and the lack of information and skills of
its inhabitants. Here, whatever booms or
economic upturns may occur in other
places, depression never ceases. A job is
a will-o-the-wisp.

The culturally deprived child’s family
may have many meritable standards and
values. Even when its material well-
being is limited to basic necessities, the
family may be close knit with love and
caring. Often it is a family remnant,
usually a matriarchy with the father un-
known or gone off somewhere. Some-

413

 




 

 

 

 

times it is barely self sufficient; and some-
times, especially in the case of matri-
archies, it depends entirely upon Aid to
Dependent Children or other supporting
agencies for the means to live. In any
case there is a common denominator: not
enough. Not enough income, informa-
tion, skills to get along successfully; no
precedent for success; insufﬁciencies of
every sort.

Consider a typical in-migrant family
from the Southern Appalachians. Rurally
oriented, they worked a marginal farm
but gave it up. As “on-the-back movers,”
they arrived in Detroit sans furniture and
appliances, with what they could carry,
and set up housekeeping in a small
“apartment.” The father could ﬁnd no
job, but the mother could and did. She
is a waitress. Suddenly the f ather’s tradi-
tional role as stern patriarch and family
head is placed in question. The mother
is now the breadwinner. The father sits
at home or otherwise occupies his time.
As part of a family work force, the
children once had chores—chores which
kept them out of school for much of the
year. There are no chores now; there is
only school and the strange freedom of
the streets. These children are poorly
prepared and poorly motivated for
school. School has never seemed impor-
tant to them.

Obviously there are some tremendous
adjustments to be made and little experi-
ence or precedent or information to base
them upon. Obviously there are going to
be some tragic failures. With a sufﬁciency
of income, information, motivation and
time—in short, in an ideal situation——
urban life adjustment might evolve quite
pleasantly. But the situation is poor; and
many children have little to do except, as
one visiting teacher’s report put it,
“think about the hills of home, go to
school each day unprepared and purpose-

414

less, and be ‘sick to mah stomach from
the gas stove’ (quote from child) that
heats a three-room ﬂat.”

The parents of the culturally deprived
child are not against education. At worst
they see no need for it, are indifferent.
Many have hopes and ambitions for their
children which involve getting a good
education. They are glad if their child
does well in school, but they have little
formal education themselves, know little
about studies or how children learn. They
feel that they cannot, in their lack of
success, understand how to help the child
succeed. Most parents surely care, care a
great deal; but care without knowledge
is often sad and misguided and some-
times teams with acute parental shame at
child failure or misdemeanor in school
and becomes unjustiﬁed and unsuccess-
ful corporal punishment.

The total picture—family, community,
urban adjustment, employment oppor-
tunity—has by necessity become a matter
of concern to urban educators. The cul-
turally deprived child often has ability
levels which indicate that he could
achieve well, could grow up in school
studies and in his life if reached and
interested by what the school offered.
And yet the typical culturally deprived
child in the typical classroom is indiffer-
ent and purposeless, a poor communicator
who does not respond to normal teaching
methods and subject matter. His capa-
bilities remain unrealized.

Why ?

Reinforcement to School Learning

The traditional responsibilities of
school staff and objectives of school
services are based upon a uniform “Suc-
cessful American” social and economic
pattern and do not apply effectively to
the non-uniform social and economic
patterns which characterize the neighbor-
hoods from which these children come.

CHILDHOOD EDUCATION

 




The typical school cannot compensate
for the various lacks in the lives of cul-
turally deprived children. The typical
school is not structured or oriented to
provide those reinforcements to school
learning which, in a stable, middle-

income area, are normally provided each
child by his home and out-of—school life.

Many of these reinfdrcements are in-
tangible. They include: an acceptable
self-image;4 knowledge of essentials such
as nutrition and health; an implicit sense
of identiﬁcation with a stable family in a
stable neighborhood; security and free-
dom from want, both material and
emotional; the self-conﬁdence and moti-
vation to achieve which rub off on the
child who is surrounded by things and
involved in experiences which are ac-
cepted both at home and in school either
as symbols of success or signiﬁcant
achievements.

Such positive factors are essential in
some form in the growing up of a child.
They are the ﬁrm ground beneath the
learning process. If they are insufﬁcient
or lacking and no compensation is made
for them, then the child’s ability to learn
is impeded or lost. He must have them
if he is to do well in the typical school.

It seems reasonable that the educator
should be concerned with all that affects
the child he is trying to educate; in fact
teachers and administrators often in-
formally cross traditional lines and do
“unorthodox” things to help children
who are not doing well in school. But—
except through the truant or attendance
ofﬁcer—the public schools, especially
the urban public schools, seldom make
ofﬁcial organized attempts to alter the
“other lives” of children. And yet eX-
perience in educating culturally deprived
children has shown that investment of
funds and energy by a traditional one-

4“Self-image” is a moot term: here it is used to delineate
the child’s conscious and sub-conscious feelings about himself
insofar as they delimit his motivation, aspiration and success in
school. Is he inured to failure, failure prone? Or does he think
he can do what he wants to do?

sided approach often proves futile in
achieving the public schools’ stated
purpose—to deve10p self-reliant, pro-
ductive and discriminating citizens.

It might be said that two of the three
forces which normally shape a child’s
character and provide him with the
means he needs to grow up and live
successfully have an over-all neutral or
negative effect on the child. If the family
(and in “family” I include personal
afﬁliation with a church) does little to
help prepare the child for life and the
cultural environment of the child is
limited and negative, then the one force
left to do the necessary shaping is the
school. It must provide more for the
child than it normally would, at the same
time attempting with other community
services to revive the family’s positive
influence and to introduce portions of
our culture and our society which tend
to equalize the child’s limited and nega-
tive environment. If each child is to learn
as much as he is able, the Great Cities
must provide an effective, economical
school program prepared to reinforce the
“complete life” of a child if such rein-
forcement is needed.

FIVE-PART PROGRAM

Teacher Training

The Detroit Great Cities Project is
developing and testing a ﬁve-part pro-
gram. Part number one is concerned with
teacher orientation and training. Since
improvement of schooling depends upon
more effective teaching, we have de-
veloped inservice training programs de-
signed to modify the perception of
teachers as this perception relates to the
culturally deprived child, his neighbor-
hood and his schooling. And since most
teachers bring to their work an experi-
ential background entirely different than
that of the families whose children they
teach, appropriate changes in teacher
perception must occur to insure reason-

 




 

 

 

ably objective reactions to child, family
and neighborhood.

These important changes in the per-
ception of teachers occur only as teachers
become aware of and involved in the
processes of change which confront chil-
dren and their families day by day.

The workshop is an effective inservice
training tool for providing teachers with
useful knowledge to apply in teaching
the culturally deprived child. The Detroit
project has used it: to outline the extra-
ordinary needs of the culturally deprived
child, with outstanding consultants in
child psychology, sociology, urban re-
newal, in-migration and so forth; to
involve parents in studies of curriculum;
and to plan curriculum, courses for
parents, preschool programs, summer
school programs and family nights.

A monthly paper, GCSIP Footnotes, is
distributed to all staff members in the
seven project schools. Its purpose is to
keep the staff abreast of events and
changes in other schOols and to dissemi-
nate articles and materials pertinent to a

greater understanding of the culturally
deprived child’s world.

Adapting Instructional Materials

Part number two involves the improved
use of instructional equipment and ma-
terials and the development of educa-
tional materials adapted to the needs of
the culturally deprived child. One of the
difﬁculties of teaching reading in the
primary grades has been to ﬁnd a primer
series which contains words and experi-
ences which the culturally deprived child
can relate to things in his own life.

A committee of reading specialists,
together with citizens’ and teachers’
advisory committees, is working in co-
operation with the Follett Publishing
Company on a three-primer series which
may prove to be a radical departure from
the standard materials of this genre. In

the series, situations and events common
to the inner city child’s experience are
used. Vocabulary familiar to him is
presented—although usage is different
than his might be. Streets are crowded
city streets, houses are old (but well-
kept) city houses. Fathers do not all
wear ties and carry briefcases. And
some of the faces of the children in the
stories are brown and some are white——
an unprecedented realistic touch. This
more than anything else in the new series
may help numerous children to take new
interest in learning the words in their
primers.

To encourage a home library (in the
homes of these children are few books
or magazines), books are purchased on
consignment and sold at co‘st to children
and parents. Largely paperbacks, they
range from classics in literature to fairy
tales, simple nursery stories and appro-
priate adventure stories.

Three hundred ﬁfty to four hundred
dollars has been added to each school’s
funds to allow teachers to obtain mate-
rials which they deem useful but which
are not available through regular pro-
curement channels.

Teachers are encouraged to search out
and recommend effective instructional
materials. One social studies teacher
(junior high school) had difficulty ﬁnd-
ing materials which his students cared to
read (the class was low track in a mul-
tiple-track program). A competent
writer, he simply constructed short stories
which projected each student from cur-
rent time into the future, with intriguing
speculations, all logical, on the indi-
vidual as he would be and the nature of
tomorrow’s society and technology. The
students read avidly.

Extensive curriculum change, a very
involved and controversial process, is in
the d1scuss10n-recommendation stage;

but as yet actual changes have been
minor.




Changing Organizational Patterns

Part number three concerns modiﬁca-
tion of organizational patterns within the
school for mo-re ﬂexible and eﬁicient pro-
gramming to meet individual needs.
Team teaching is being tried in three
schools with considerable success and
has been temporarily abandoned in one
school because of limited facilities.

Block-time programming, using study
units developed by teachers, has been
initiated in the two junior high schools.
A non-graded primary unit has been in
operation in one school for two years,
and testing of child progress shows
highly satisfactory results. Another
school instituted a non-graded primary in
September 1961 and has extended
teacher-pupil continuity to six semesters
with many of its elementary class groups.

A pre- primary program, begun 1n one
school to discover whether early prepa-
ration could offset some of the lacks of
the culturally deprived child, now has
children in the primary grades who are,
in most cases, well ahead of peers who
had no pre-primary experience. Whether
that headstart will be retained or lost
along the way remains to be seen.

One of the most obvious and perhaps
most successful ways to enrich and ex-
pand the background of the child is to
put him on a bus and take him to places
he has never seen and perhaps never
heard of. Such mobile instruction is
fortiﬁed by extensive classroom prepa-
1ation beforehand and used as the basis
of future class work. Approximately 400
bus trips to industrial, business and cul-
tural centers were provided the seven
schools in 1960- 61 (this ﬁgure includes
trips as part of summer programs—GCP
schools operate the year round). In addi-
tion, there are walking trips to the ﬁre
department, the service station, the super-
market and trips by private car for
smaller groups and clubs.

Camping experiences are an expand-
ing activity in the project schools. There
are numerous reasons for sending the
culturally deprived child off to the woods
for a week. Here are three: a camp
experience provides an entirely new
dimension to a city-oriented life; it
offers unique opportunities to teach and
learn, especially in the sciences; it pro-
vides an opportunity for teachers and
pupils to begin to know and understand
each other as people. Since the teacher
is often the only available source of the
sort of objective affection and acceptance
which the child needs most, a camping
experience may be the keystone upon
which a child’s success in school can be
built. There are other assets. One is the
chance to enjoy the public lands a citizen
is free to use and to learn some things
about the citizen’s responsibility for these
lands.

Besides, it is new fun to catch a click
beetle or a bluegill and to sit around on
the grass under a tree and talk to a
teacher.

For the three camp experiences (two
in the spring and one in the winter, in-
volving approximately 200 sixth- and
seventh- graders and ﬁfty staff), students
prepared extensively in class and parents
were informed and included in prepara-
tion and planning. To“ earn their way,”
the children, with supervision from
school staff and parents, washed cars,
mowed lawns, sold cakes and cookies and
Christmas trees (after a day of cutting
and hauling their trees from tree farm to

city ) .
Extra Personnel

Part number four concerns the extra
personnel assigned to each school to help
classroom teachers and school adminis-
trators coordinate home - community,
agency and school resources and increase
remedial teaching and referral capacity.

Coaching teachers (one per school)
have enhanced the work of regular

 




 

 

 

 

teachers by doing extensive diagnostic
and developmental work in language arts
and arithmetic with approximately 350
children whose disabilities required ex-
tensive remedial instruction. It is inter-
esting that these specialists often ﬁnd that
their ﬁrst task is to develop conﬁdence
and motivation in children who have not
learned, children to whom schoolwork of
any kind has been synonymous with de-
feat and failure.

Full-time visiting teachers (school
social workers, one per school) diagnose
and refer emotionally disturbed children
and their families to appropriate
agencies and specialists for help. In many
cases our visiting teachers ﬁnd they must
do much of the helping themselves, be-
cause they are often accepted as part of
the family and because, as one parent
put it, “I can’t talk about this to a
stranger.”

The school-community agent (one in
each elementary school, two in each of
the junior and senior high schools) is
essentially a social worker trained in
community organization. The agent is
responsible for implementing the ideal
of the community or neighborhood
school, serving children, parents and
interested neighbors alike. To this end
agents utilize staff and laymen as
volunteer and paid after-school and
evening instructors and leaders, work
with staff in developing a comprehensive
enrichment - remedial- recreational sum-
mer program, coordinate the work of
community agencies in the school, and
in appropriate ways develop and renew
community leadership and interest in and
use of the school. lnformally, the agent
is an impartial arbiter of school-family
issues, the go-between and open forum
for neighborhood opinion.

418

School-Home-Community Activities

Part number ﬁve concerns public and
private agency involvement and the de-
velopment of school-home-commanity
reinforcement activities. The success of
a community-school venture in a cul-
turally deprived area depends in large
measure on the concentration of public
and private agency resources and person-
nel on community-school needs.

Activities in 1960-61 included:

——a day camp for 55 emotionally disturbed
children from project schools (with the
Neighborhood Service Organization)

——extensive use of YMCA and YWCA

facilities and programs

—shared use of recreation facilities and
personnel with Detroit Department of Parks
and Recreation

——expanded use of public libraries: trans-
porting parents and children by shuttle and
car and sending Detroit Public Library Book-
mobiles out into the project neighborhoods

———cooperation with the Detroit Department
of Health and the Pilot Club of Detroit to staff
and operate a clinic which will do a complete
inventory of physical-nutritional needs of one
school’s population

——work with the Detroit Commission on
Children and Youth in the compilation of a
crime and delinquency report in project school
areas

——extended contacts with neighborhood
churches and use of school facilities for non-
religious youth activities conducted by the
churches

———use of nearly 200 high school and college
students as teacher assistants and club leaders

—~Proiect staff involvement in committees
and planning groups for urban renewal, settle-
ment house work, neighborhood conservation
and other community service activities vital to
the Great Cities Project

—Project staff speeches on school needs and
the culturally deprived child to 120 profes-
sional and lay groups in and around Detroit.

CHILDHOOD EDUCATION

 




Schools are perhaps the most logical
facility in which the total community can
and should be involved. Reinforcement
of pupil growth much like that found in
a middle-income community is made pos-
sible through extensive-intensive involve-
ment of everyone who can, will or should
be involved—parents, volunteer and paid
staff, public and private agencies, city
college and university students and pro-
fessors, business concerns and interested
laymen.

When parents are invited to join the
staff in curriculum planning and develop-
ment, aspirations for themselves and
their children may be signiﬁcantly
changed. In addition, approximately 250
short- and long-term after-school and
evening classes for youth and adults took
place in the Project schools in 1960 and
1961. The courses were meant to be (1)
immediately useful (nutrition and health,
preadolescent psychology, how to help
your child graduate from high school,
millinery, tailoring, carpentry and home
repair); (2) possibly of use in gainful
employment (typing and clerical work,
hair styling); (3) for pleasure and en-
richment (current events, square dancing
and Latin dancing, travel to faraway
places, public speaking and dramatics,
cake decorating, Swedish weaving).
Adult and youth classes are reinforced
by family night programs, recreational
activities (gymnasium) clubs, scouting
and urban 4-H, and a cooperative nursery
program.

In all programs, formal and informal,
school-family contact, keeping the lines
of communication open, has helped chil-
dren to be more effective learners and
has given parents the positive ability to
urge their children to see reasons for
learning and to make the most of their
years in school.

The Project staff is relating all of its
ﬁndings, after thorough evaluation, to

MAY 1962

 

the areas of teacher training and adminis-
trative organization and expects to leave
educators with valuable data concerning
not only effective teaching situations but
also effective teaching styles, adminis-
trative styles and organizational struc-
tures. 3:,
The Detroit Project is unique in that
it has a full-time evaluator assigned to
the staff. In initiating the Project in
Detroit, it was recognized that programs
with proven effect should be continued
and extended to schools currently un-
involved in the Project—with the stipu-
lation that an expanded program could
not exceed an annual ten per cent per
Project student cost increase. Not every
part of the Project program will remain
in use. To meet cost limits, the Project
staff must analyze statistics and data
computed and ﬁled during the ﬁve-year
run and use their ﬁndings to establish a
priority list, top-rating the elements of
the Project program which had the most
signiﬁcant effect in increasing school
success of the culturally deprived child.
Recommendations from this priority list
will become the program used in extended
project activities.

All evaluation falls into one of two
dimensions. The ﬁrst is the educational
record dimension, based upon a battery
of tests measuring change in academic
achievement and ability and, to some
extent, attitude toward school. Increased
test performance indicates application in
studies and (probably) a better attitude
toward school.

The second dimension is that of
sociological measurement and research.
Sophisticated instruments have been de-
veloped and used to assess the attitudes
and perception of teachers, impact of
attitudes and perception on teaching
style, and effect of teaching style on the
school success of the culturally deprived
child. Project staff is at work in col-

419

 




 

 

 

laboration with the School of Social
Work at the University of Michigan to
develop testing instruments, to study
family types and neighborhood struc-
ture, and to analyze administrative style
and its effect upon the liberal-innovative
quality so essential in the style of a good
teacher. '

Forecasts for Project

What are the “short term” forecasts
for the Great Cities Project in Detroit?
It is believed that a considerably larger
number of children attending Project
schools will leave them with positive self -
images, higher goals, greater scholastic
achievement and improved citizenship,
more adequately prepared for continuing
school or going to work.

It should be stressed that the Detroit
Great Cities Project is not unique in its
premises or in its purposes. Individual
teachers and schools in Detroit and across
the nation are striving to meet the needs
of culturally deprived children. With
little organized help and no extra funds,
their work has been done with dedication
and the old hard measure of blood,
sweat and tears. Such efforts are inspi-
rational, but they are a stopgap; we can-
not hope that they will resolve a dilemma
which has grown to such proportions that
it can be met only with concerted, total-
community effort.

Perhaps the most signiﬁcant thing
about the Detroit Great Cities Project
and similar projects in many great cities
is that it stands as a statement of need;
as a formal attempt on the part of a
Board of Education to establish a struc-
ture which has the funds, the personnel
and the support to do a thorough job of
proving that all children, no matter how
difficult their situation may be, can be
well educated and positively motivated.

420

In Slums and Suburbs, James B.
Conant observed a situation prevalent in
our large cities which he succinctly called
“social dynamite”——the hundreds of
thousands of youth sixteen to twenty
who are out of school and out of work.
In the majority of cases these youth,
dropouts and graduates alike, are the
products of schools unsuccessful in pro-
viding the academic and vocational skills
needed, ineffective in encouraging young
men and women to focus their potential
on some purpose in life.

The fact that there are few unskilled
or semi-skilled jobs available and that
they often go to the “upper track” candi-
dates who are comfortably similar
racially and socially to the employer be-
speaks need for change in employment
opportunity and hiring practices. But it
should not serVe as an excuse used to
palliate the crucial need for change in our
urban schools or to condone the tradi-
tional silence of the schools on con-
troversial social issues which relate
directly to student success in schools.
Unrealistic and ineffective schooling has
left far too many youth with lives that,
temporarily and perhaps permanently,
off er little scope and little meaning. For
the individual, this situation is frustrat-
ing and disillusioning. For society, it is
a sad waste of human resources.

In spite of barriers, schools must give
children access to economic, social and
ethical adjustment and development. In
spite of barriers, schools must give youth
the means to achieve goals. The Detroit
Great Cities Project attempts to provide
the special instruction, guidance and
good teaching needed, when it is needed,

using every means to encourage each
child to learn.

This, we believe, is good education in
practlce.

CHILDHOOD EDUCATION

 




 

By WILLIAM F. VOSBECK

An Architect Plans for Children

 

Ann Evry

William F. Vosbeck, Alexandria, Virginia, a member of the American
Institute of Architects, was the designer of the Childhood Education
Center, ACEI’s headquarters. The functional and spacious Center is unique
in that it demonstrates that a building can be so designed to incorporate
space for adults and children (see photo). This makes the building effec-
tive in working to improve educational opportunities for children and for
those working with children.

It is noteworthy that Mr. Vosbeck attributes his desire to become an.
architect to the encouragement he received from two teachers—ﬁrst and
ﬁfth grade—who furthered an interest in drawing and mathematics.
Childhood Education Center stands as tangible evidence of what can

happen when talents are stimulated to grow to full bloom.

THE INFLUX OF CHILDREN INTO TODAY’S
population has presented a challenge to
architects who design spaces for them all.
The architect who accepts the responsi-
bility of projecting his thoughts and
plans into the child’s physical, social and
emotional world realizes that part of
growing up is learning new things, ex-
periencing new sensations and gradually
achieving at ever higher levels.

Stilted and inﬂexible planning by
adults can seriously limit children’s
imagination and creativity. To appreciate
this imagination and creativity of chil-
dren is not a simple task for architects

MAY 1962

but a necessity. Play and work areas
must be so ﬂexibly designed that they will
not soon become obsolete.

Planning for schools, recreational
centers, churches, detention homes, li-
braries—yes, even shOpping centers and
bowling alleys—all in some way must
include provision for children. The
solution can more nearly be achieved
when interior and exterior spaces are
properly integrated. Restricted spaces
hamper a youngster’s growth. By merely
adding the proper atmosphere of space,
light and color with simplicity and direc-
tion, we can adapt to meet the needs of

421

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

North Virginia Juvenile
Detention Home’s multi-
purpose room has physical
surroundings necessary for
rehabilitation activities for

children.

This light and airy church
classroom is also functional
for a neighborhood project.

Ann Evry

 

Fletcher Judson
Elementary School,
Watertown, Conn., has
a large playground
suitable for all ages in
the community.

Joseph W. Molitor




 

Public School

#46, Brooklyn,

N. Y.: Even in

' large city schools
integration of art

work: and play-

ground equipment

, helps to stimulate
the child’s

imagination.

Ezra S toller

Standard

Oil Co. of

‘ Calif. Rod
‘ and Gun
7' Club,
Richmond,

Calif.:

Imagina-

’ tion makes
this play-

ground

a center

which can

be used by

the whole

family.

Ernest Braun

 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  

 

Mount Vernon
Presbyterian
Church, Fairfax
County, Va.:
A church
educational
building was
designed to
serve all
children’s
community
functions.




 

 

the child. Lively and informal settings
for active participation provide an effec-
tive environment for the child. An early
path away from the institutional-type or
monotonous setting should be taken.

Because of the development of
Suburban America, it is no longer pos-
sible to merely “send” our children to
the playground, library, school or church.
The hazards created by the necessary
suburban automobile trafﬁc make it in-
creasingly difﬁcult for children to get to
the new areas of activity by themselves.
They must be taken-or driven by an older
person, often the entire family. There-
fore, planning for the children alone is
not enough. Most buildings which have
facilities for the child must also be
planned for the adult—and don’t over-
look the automobile! These child areas
or centers must be planned to house
automobiles as well as to protect the
child from the automobile. Of course,
there is also an advantage to this situ-
ation, for once a car is loaded and
started distance means less and less.
Neighborhood proximity of buildings
planned for children is no longer a
necessity. Because modern transportation
methods have shortened all distances
and made centers for children more
accessible, larger buildings which incor-
porate better facilities for the accom-
plishment of the intended purpose are
required.

 
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
   
 
   
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
   
 
 
  
 
 
   

Recreational Space Needed

One of the earliest recreational needs
of children in our communities, the
playground, is still being developed.
Fortunately we are planning these areas
with less formality and more imagination
with the result of more variety and real
fun. Children were the original in-
habitants of these areas, but today they
are being designed for the whole family.
They have become places where parents
can come to rest and to keep an eye on
the children without intruding. The
integration of contrasting textures,
colors, landscaping and free forms have
helped to organize areas for different
activities. Various surfaces such as
grass, sand, concrete and tanbark form
a variety of play areas. One of the
newest trends in playground equipment
is sculptured play forms. These tend to
stimulate a child’s sense of space, color
and form. If a creative response can be
cultivated on the playground, the child
may take it with him into other areas of
his life.

One of the most natural recreational
areas is the shopping center because it is
a place to which parents and their chil-
dren gravitate. There are a few large
shopping centers where many hours may
be spent even when the shops are closed.
Outstanding paintings and sculpture
have been brought into these centers, as
well as interesting stores for window

The turtle tent
family is planned
for young children’s
fun.

Courtesy Creative
Playthings, '
Princeton, N. I.

 




shopping. The owners of these centers
have integrated their facilities for parents
and children and made them welcome.
They do not want to isolate the children
into special areas, since the child has a
strong inﬂuence on the purchases made
by the parents.

Church Schools Need Space

Thousands of churches and synagogues
are about to embark on new building
ventures, bringing us to the greatest
church building era yet. One of the most
frequent questions raised by people in-
volved in this type of work is, “Where
shall we put the children?” Our churches
are now becoming centers for many
varied children’s activities. The im-
portance of quiet rooms for teaching is
still realized but so is space for organized
social and outdoor activities.

In addition to this, there are other
reasons why churches planned for today
should be approached differently than
those of not so very long ago. Rigidity
in planning is a diﬂiculty inherited from
the past. The planners of the tiny class-
rooms opening off from a large assembly
room were attempting to achieve a pur-
pose. However, they did not envisage
any future changes and built in such a
way that necessary changes were practi-
cally impossible. We often see older
church buildings where the cubic capacity
is adequate for the kind of education
building desired today, but when their
new requirements were investigated it
was found to be more economical to leave
the old building and construct a new one
beside it.

The church school is no longer a place
where children huddle up together on
little red chairs. There should be an in-
creased emphasis upon an abundance of
open ﬂoor space. Because of present con-
struction costs it is economically unsound
to invest in rooms which will be used
only one or two hours. More and more
new churches are well aware of this and

have been planning their space with
built-in ﬂexibility to serve other needs,
all the days of the week. Our churches
are bound to become neighborhood
centers for children’s activities. We
already ﬁnd many churches using their
facilities for kindergarten or nursery
schools on weekdays. The church is one
of the ﬁrst places outside of the home to
which a young child goes. To make the
transition into the church a happy one,
the classroom should be on the same scale
and in the same character as the home.
The rooms should be light and airy. It is
especially desirable that they open onto
an outside court or play area. Let us hope
that the day of gloomy nurseries and
church school rooms in the church base-
ment is over!

Today our schools are being swamped
by a tidal wave of young life. There is
a continuous need to expand our facili-
ties at a time when construction costs are
at an all-time high and when the public
is exceedingly critical of the tax rate.
For this reason, architects and planners
have been faced with getting the most for
the tax dollar. Each year there will be a
need for more classrooms. One of the
solutions for a more economical building
is to eliminate multi-level schools includ-
ing basements, using instead the slab type
of construction. Besides the economy of
cost, another advantage to this type of
building is the possibility of having more
direct exits to the outside, thus increasing
safety as well as ease of adding more
rooms as required. Cold ﬂoors in one-
story construction can be eliminated by
putting heating pipes below the ﬂoor
slab around the exterior perimeter.

We must recognize the youngest chil-
dren are the most important ones to
occupy all buildings. They will outlive
the rest of us. When we are gone and
forgotten, the impressions which we have
made on them will begin to bear results.
We should realize that it is the smallest
child who will learn the most. "

 




 

 

 

By CHRISTINE STEVENS

Befriending Animals

Christine Stevens, Animal Welfare Institute, New York, gives a national
and international view of humane education and its relatedness to class-
room activities. Since children have a natural interest in animals, it is

not difﬁcult to teach kindness to animals.

AS THE CHILD EXPERIENCES THE KINDLY
emotions which can be brought out in
such simple ways as giving food to a
hungry animal or water to a thirsty one,
he naturally develops an attitude of mind
which is a basic need of civilized human
beings. The need for this gentle and
considerate point of view is greater today
than ever before in the history of the
world.

The abuse of strength and power by
any individual becomes more serious as
the numbers of human beings increase, as
scientiﬁc power increases and as the
natural world correspondingly shrinks.
It is essential that the children growing
up in the 1960’s he truly humane. They
can learn to become so through happy
experiences in befriending animals.

Many teachers have told me how much
they value the various humane educa-
tional materials supplied to them by ani-
mal protective organizations with which
I have worked. They point out that noth-
ing else is so effective in character de-
velopment and so much enjoyed by
children while they are learning.

This approach was initiated by George
T. Angell, founder of the American
Humane Education Society. He was
deeply impressed by the fact that none of
the inmates of a Boston prison had ever
owned a dog or other pet as a child. By
the same token cruelty to animals often

426

forms a prelude to crimes against human
beings; for example, Francis H. Bloeth,
who murdered three people and who had
previously shown a liking for gruesome
methods of killing cats. Clearly, it is of
great importance that no school activity
should ever give encouragement to the
development of callous or sadistic atti-
tudes.

Kindness to Animals

Around the World

Our country is a leader in humane
education, and recognition of its impor-
tance is reﬂected in the fact that twenty-
nine states have legislation requiring the
teaching of humane education in their
public schools. Others have followed our
lead and advance theteaching of humane
principles in different ways. In such
faraway countries as Japan and Tan-
ganyika, contests for the best paintings
and posters illustrating kindness to ani-
mals play an important part in the prO-
gram. A Christmas card published by
the Japan Animal Welfare Society and a
poster from the Tanganyika Branch of
the Royal Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals express the spirit of
kindness and sympathy so well stated by
Dr. Albert Schweitzer: “We need a
boundless ethics that will include the
animals also.” It is in this spirit of

CHILDHOOD EDUCATION




Reverence for Life that the Humane Edu-
cation Institute of Africa was recently
formed. Nearer home, in Canada, the
Kindness Club is ﬂourishing. Each
branch takes an animal name—raccoon,
beaver, chipmunk—but they stand for
kindness to all animals. The Kindness
Club was founded because of the demand
of the children of New Brunswick when
they learned how greatly animals need
such help. The information was gathered
in the course of an essay contest on the
protection of animals. The guide book

Frederic C. Matthaei,
president of

Matthaei Foundation
which last spring
built the Shelter of
the Humane Society
of Washtenaw County,
Michigan, with one

of the many

children who have
adopted an animal
from the “orphanage”

Est/oer Bubley

MAY 1962

for leaders now being published may
prove useful in the United States, too.
(See Atlantic Advocate, December 1961.)

The Field Rangers, an English chil-
dren’s club, is in contact with some ﬁfteen
thousand school children. With three
regular weekly classes, monthly outings,
summer camp, “Information Bureau”
library of animal books and monthly ﬁlm
showings, the group is very active. A
special feature is the Pets Corner run for
mentally retarded children in Fountain
Hospital. Club members make two eve-

 

427

 




 

 

ning attendances at the hospital each
week as well as Sunday mornings.

Classroom Activities

Humane education through club activ-
ities ties in well with humane teaching in
the classroom. Here are some notes from
a teacher who visits classrooms for the
San Francisco SPCA: “The children are
enthusiastic . . . Teachers say that the
children apply these kindly feelings to
each other . . . There are always a few
children who do not have pets. I never
urge them to beg their parents to get
them one, because there may be condi-
tions at home making it undesirable to
have one. Instead I suggest special proj-
ects: collecting pictures and stories of
animals from newspapers to put in scrap-
books or visiting the zoo, then going to
the library to borrow books about the
animals they are most interested in.
When a child has just a goldﬁsh I try to
make him feel fortunate, and point out
that even a ﬁsh can be a pet if it is treated
as one. One little girl told me about her
four-year-old goldﬁsh: ‘He is a real pet.
When I feed him I put the food on my
ﬁnger and put my ﬁnger on top of the
water and he comes up to eat.’ I stress
the Golden Rule . . . ‘Treat pets and all
other animals the way you would like to
be treated if you had been born a pet or
any other kind of animal.’ I printed it
in large letters on a piece of cardboard
on which I pasted colored pictures of
animals, and I usually have one child
volunteer to read it to the class, then I
ask the entire class to read it in unison.”

For the teacher who lacks special
knowledge, manuals, books, leaﬂets and
posters which are available free or for a
small sum can be helpful. First Aid and
Care of Small Animals1 (free to
teachers) provides expert information on
helping all sorts of small creatures in
distress.

428

Visit Animal Shelter

A visit to the local humane society
shelter can be very rewarding, and basic
facts about the care and handling of pets
can be illustrated. Young children are
delighted with an opportunity to hold a
puppy or kitten and deeply impressed
when shown exactly how to do this: sup-
porting the animal’s weight with one
hand while holding his front legs with the
other and resting him against the child’s
chest. Respect for the feelings of the
animals is readily learned as each child
shows proudly how comfortably he can
hold a friendly pup. The principles on
which humane societies and SPCA’S are
founded are brieﬂy outlined, and even
the youngest child readily grasps the wish
of each animal for a good home.

Another excellent followup is to have
some calm and friendly pet spend a
morning in the classroom. Discussion on
his needs and care can be extended to
different subjects. Painting and drawing
him and writing about him may be tied in

with reading or storytelling, depending

on the children’s ages.

Science and Humane Education

Science teaching goes hand in hand
with humane education in the study of
nature. A class visit to a park, farm or
woodland opens up great opportunities
for observing animals in their natural
surroundings and for developing the
careful and thorough observation that
every great scientist has demonstrated
and the respect and compassion for fellow
inhabitants of the earth that every truly
civilized human being must have.

Of paramount importance in science
teaching is the strict avoidance of any
activity which might cause distress to
animals either in or out of classroom.

1 Ernest P. Walker, First Aid and Care of Small Animals (New
York 3: Anlmal Welfare Institute, 22 E. 17th St.).

CHILDHOOD EDUCATION

 




 

 

Internatzonal N ews Photo

A hummingbird gets a drink from an eye-dropper.

Some teachers have been persuaded to
starve small animals in the classroom to
demonstrate long-established facts about
nutrition. The gruesome symptoms of
these unfortunate captives are then ob-
served by the children who, it is assumed,
will thenceforward eat a balanced diet.
That they will have been hardened to the
sufferings of those weaker than they and
will have made a serious start toward the
stultification of all compassionate feel-
ings for the defenseless is brushed aside
as unimportant. This is the antithesis of
genuine education; and when it is carried
to surgery, poisons, cancer implants and
other painful procedures on living ani-
mals, its effects on impressionable young
people are likely to go beyond callous-
ness to sadism. We cannot afford to
accept such teaching practices in a

civilized nation, and ﬁrst-rate science
teaching neither needs nor uses them.

Humane education can be correlated
with the arts as effectively as it can be
with social studies and science. Original
plays by children, in which they act the
parts or in which they use hand puppets
representing animals, can be a great suc-
cess both with the producers and the
Viewers. A play about Saint Francis of
Assisi written by a superintendent of
schools offers possibilities for young
actors.

Children have a natural interest in
animals, and it is not difficult to develop
feelings of sympathy and desire to help
living creatures who are smaller and
more helpless than the children them-
selves.

 




 

 

 

 

By CLYDE I. MARTIN

Concerns for Children Are World Wide

BELOW WERE TREELESS, ROLLING RED AND
brown hills—dry and desert like. Suddenly
the long airﬁeld stretched out before us. With
the usual nonchalance, a capable Brazilian
pilot hustled our plane to a stop on the runway
andee were at a seemingly deserted airport.
Where were the people who were to meet me?
Knowing not one word of Portuguese, in a
strange airport in a strange land, my fears
belied me. With the help of a young Portu-
guese student I had reached my destination,
Natal in the state of Rio Grande de Norte in
Northeastern Brazil, closer to Africa than to
Rio de J aniero, in the middle of Carnival
time.

American Built Airbase

No one seemed to have ever heard of Natal
hanging on the east-most point in South
America when I discussed my mission for the
Organization of American States prior to my

departure, but one day an eX-G.I.’s eyes lighted -

up when it was mentioned. “I was there at
the time of the African Campaign. Thousands
of Americans were there during World War II.
The Brazilians provided a base for all branches
of our services. From Natal our planes took
off and after battles we came back for rest
camp.”

Few Americans have gone back for visits,
but thousands of G.l.’s had paved the way for
me in this part of Brazil. As I worked for
four months as a consultant in elementary
education with people in all phases of educa-
tion in Natal, I knew that I was the benefactor
of the reﬂected good will generated almost
twenty years before by Americans engaged in
another mission. The airbase where our plane
had landed was built by them, as well as the
paved road into the city and the modern water
supply system—all reminders that the Brazil-
ians had befriended us in a critical hour and
were still enjoying these tokens from us.

Clyde I. Martin is professor of curriculum and
instruction, University of Texas, Austin.

430

. . . In Brazil

Seeking Universal Literacy

During my three-day wait there was time to
gaze out my window over the mango trees and
ponder how best to work at this mission of
showing Brazilian educators how to set up a
demonstration school for children to which
teachers from this part of the nation could
come to observe and study. This was to be my
small part in a national effort by Brazilians to
educate teachers for public schools who would
reflect in their guidance of children the ideals
of this rapidly changing society seeking uni-
versal literacy where about thirty per cent now
exists. One small segment of the answer was
clear: I couldnitwttfielp design schools in a
country until I knew what kinds were there
already and until I learned as much as I could
about all phases of life in that society. A giant
task indeed, but I resolved to approach it
searchingly, earnestly, and in faith that some
power greater than I would not allow me to
lead them into our mistakes. They haven’t
the time to make and recover from such mis-
takes because Brazil is being handed the
atomic age without having had much part in
its making.

Four days after I arrived my work began.
I met with the State Secretary of Education,
leaders in the Research Center, and teachers
from the laboratory school where most of my
efforts would be extended. At this meeting I
was introduced to my interpreter, a charming,
intelligent woman who had recently spent a
year in the United States as a member of one
of the groups of English teachers from
foreign countries studying under US. Ofﬁce
of Education auspices. To persons and insti-
tutions who were her hosts I owe inestimable
gratitude. Her visit had been such an inspir-
ing, proﬁtable one that she resolved her nation
should show its appreciation through gratu-
ities to me. Before the session had ended,
plans were made for regular classes with the
group present and for visits to all kinds of
schools in this section of the country.

CHILDHOOD EDUCATION

«-




.. -._ «A:

' Perhaps I shall never have any measure of
the results of my work with these people—it
might have been negligible—but their impact
upon my understanding and growth as a per-
son is immeasureable. My eyes began to be
opened with my visits to all kinds of schools
for children and adults.

Kinds of Schools

Never at home had I taken a close look at
the “fronts” upon which we continue our
barrage at ignorance, but studying the north-
eastern Brazilian “front” rather amazed me.
The number and kinds of institutions in the
city of Natal in which they hammer away at
their No. I enemy, illiteracy, tell me that they
know what the adversary is. The vast majority
of schools are private ones run by the Catholic
Church with elementary, ginaso and colegio
divisions that are roughly comparable to our
own elementary, junior and senior high
schools; private schools operated by indi-
viduals; and public schools. Other special
kinds include: Escola Domestica, a school
where girls from upper-class families are
taught homemaking and child rearing; a
school for the children of lepers, one of the
few of its kind in the world; SENAC, for
practical training and teaching in commercial
subjects; Instituto Batisto, conducted by Prot-
estant missionaries for the educatiOn of
ministers and Sunday school workers; school
for exceptional children in a state of “becom-
ing” but based on sound ideas; and two
bi-national centers under the auspices of the
Brazilian, French and United States govern-
ments. These centers are engaged in cultural
exchange, but their primary task is the teach-
ing of English and French. A state normal
school for the education of elementary
teachers and a new three-year-old state uni-
versity with branches of medicine, law, social
work, a College of Philosophy for secondary
teacher training, engineering, dentistry and
pharmacy give an idea of the goals of con-
tinuing study for adults. 7 Also, I was continu-
ously learning of other small groups meeting
in the homes of individuals to study English,
French, music or some other subject which
interested them.

I felt at home when I viewed the persistent
problem faced in education—lack of ﬁnancial
support; shortages of classrooms, equipment
and supplies; inadequate salaries for teachers.
The laboratory school in which I worked with
the faculty housed elementary children from

seven to twelve o’clock each day, including
Saturday; normal school students in the after-
noon; high school students in the evening.
In a large public school in a downtown dis-
trict nine hundred children attend classes in
three sessions of three and one-half hours each
day. Different groups of teachers work in each
session. In addition to his duties as principal,
Professor Acrisin Freire teaches mathematics
for twenty-ﬁve hours per week in a naval
training center. All teachers are paid by the
hour and work in several schools. Some of
them even conduct small private schools in
their homes. Still their income is inadequate.

Despite all the effort to create and maintain
schools for children, thousands of them play
each day outside thatched huts or swim in the
water along the miles of some of the world’s
most beautiful beaches, unaware that school
keeps.

Alecrim

One day my search for what schools were
like took me to the oldest elementary school
in the poorest section of the city—Alecrim.
The principal, an elderly man, had founded
the Boy Scouts in Natal and because of his
splendid work had been given permission by
the government to continue teaching after he
reached retirement age. When our car pulled
up at the schoolyard gate, out stepped a jaunty
Eagle Scout in full regalia to welcome me in
perfect English. He led the way to a large
corridor where the Scout band rose to greet
me by playing their national anthem. Prob-
ably at that moment I became convinced that
these people with whom we share a common
European heritage also share our values for
children. As we continued through the build-
ing class after class of fourth-, ﬁfth- and sixth-
grade boys rose to greet us. At last we stepped
out into a huge patio—partially shaded by an
enormous cashew tree. Standing to form a
square were not less than ﬁfty kindergarten
children dressed in the usual snowy white
school uniforms. Inside the square four small
girls held the corners of a big American ﬂag.
Above it, high on a mast, ﬂew their country’s
own standard. Not a child moved when from
the group a tiny girl, wearing white gloves,
stepped out, looked straight at me and recited
a poem—in Portuguese. A part of my heart
was left in Alecrim.

Since 1938 this school has offered the
regular elementary subjects plus classes in
practical crafts and trades. Ingenuity was
obvious in the organization of classes to ac-

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

commodate these two types of activities. The
fourth-, ﬁfth- and sixth-grade boys attended
regular classes in the mornings. In the after-
noons girls and primary children attended
these; and older boys came back for the study
of mechanics, shoemaking and typing. The
community’s needs had been recognized in
planning the program for children in this
school.

Questions of Children

Throughout this section there are many
one- and two-teacher schools located in the
countryside and in small villages. Soon I
found myself in one of the rural schools drink-
ing fresh coconut water with a teacher and
about twenty-ﬁve children! The coconut grew
in the schoolyard alongside banana, olive and
mangaba trees. The building reminded me of
farmhouses in the southwestern part of the
United States—long and rectangular shaped
with a hall or breezeway through the center.
At each end were classrooms. Pink and yellow
hibiscus, interesting but strange potted plants,
and a vegetable garden made the outside of
the building more interesting than the class-
rooms. The children sat on long, hard benches
and few other materials were in evidence. The
teacher, a graduate of State Normal School,
was gracious and charming and wanted to
ﬁnd better ways of working with children. In
the afternoons her classroom was occupied by
another teacher and twenty-ﬁve other children.

The execution of Caryl Chessman coincided
with my visits in two high schools for boys—
one a state institution, the other a large
Catholic school offering a scientiﬁc curricu-
lum. The students seemed to be obsessed with
one idea; and I was hardly inside the room
when several, with much emotion, revealed it
with the same question, “Why did your gov-
ernment take the life of a brilliant man like
Chessman?” My well-thought-out answer was
the result of several days of anticipation of the
question. It was, “Mr. Chessman, for twelve
years, had survived because of a great prin-
ciple in American law———one is innocent until
he is proved guilty. After trying all possible
avenues, the prisoner’s guilt was sustained.
Then he was punished under the constitutional
law of a state made by its citizens. Democracy
can no longer exist when laws enacted by
citizens are disregarded by its leaders.”

The second most-asked question was an
example of school-boy curiosity and answered
with less pride and feeling of rightness: “Do
students in the United States know much

about us?” With all my integrity came the
answer: “Not nearly so much as I wish I could
report to you—for most of us Brazil is just
a large area on the map of South America.”

A Country of Contrasts

As I walked down the street toward the
normal school one day, I passed several burros
loaded with huge boxes of sand. Building was
in progress somewhere. Overhead the turbo-
jets hummed! When I worked with the
teachers in this school, this meeting of the
past and present again came clearly. Here
was a normal school, very much like our own
at the turn of the century—lawyers, doctors,
pharmacists and agronomists took time from
their regular professions to run down and
teach three or four hours each week. The
students, all girls, were about the age of our
high school students, having come directly
from the junior high school. Teachers were
aware of deﬁciency in liberal and professional
education but had difficulty in understanding
how “to bridge the gap” in a short time.

Persons of insight in other parts of the
nation have heard the “hum” of the jets and
have launched forward-looking experiments in
the education of elementary teachers for
public schools. As a result of funds from the
National Institute for Educational Research,
centers have been established in Salvador, Belo
Horizonte, Rio de Janiero and Sao Paulo to
collect basic data concerning educational
needs and to serve as centers for study for
teachers from many parts of Brazil. In each
center there is a demonstration school for
children. Teachers are awarded governmental
stipends for study in these centers. In my
work in Natal I met several well—informed,
capable teachers who had studied in these
research centers.

In Park School in Salvador, Bahia, I saw a
superb example of democratic ideals at work
in a superior school. Forty young women
were working in various ways with children.
While a teacher guided the art of children, an
adult artist worked nearby with prospective
teachers. This school is to serve as a model
for schools in the new capital, Brazilia.

Land of Drought

The citizen of Northeastern Brazil who has
watched his part of the world exist with
insuﬂicient water and many of his fellows
without work or food usually says with a note
of resignation, “Brazil is the south.” But I
saw this land of the drought as the one that

 

 

 




 

 

 

had furnished, through selective migration,
many hands and minds that had made the
prosperous, modern cities of Southern Brazil.
The concept of man’s control of his environ-
ment has entered the thinking of the people,
but how to ﬁnance and execute the plans for
it are still vague and undetermined. A part of
this control must be the realistic acceptance of
the fact that hundreds of its citizens are
illiterate—and that their numbers are con-
stantly on the increase.

At eight o’clock one morning several months
later, my bags were being swiftly deposited at

News HERE and THERE

By ALBERTA L. MEYER

New ACE Branches

Paterson State College ACE, New Jersey
West Memphis ACE, Arkansas (reinstated)

New Life Members
Artie B. Dearesaugh, Little Rock, Arkansas

Childhood Education Center

0 An art exhibit of Indianapolis school
children was open to the public from March
15 to May 4. This colorful exhibit demon-
strates the child’s sensitivity to his environ-
ment and the growth in skills in use of art
media from kindergarten through junior high
school years.

0 Anna Dreyer, director of the ﬁrst tele-
vision program for children in Australia,
Visited the Center to become acquainted with
the source of ACEI bulletins and CHILDHOOD
EDUCATION. These are in use in the Melbourne
Kindergarten Training College where Miss
Dreyer is a faculty member.

0 Special committees of the U. S. National
Committee for Childhood Education met in
the Center for a sharing of ideas with ACEI
staff members.

0 Paul Kent, guidance worker in the
Children’s Convalescent Hospital of Washing-
ton, came to the Center for help in the selec-
tion of educational materials.

0 Livingston Blair, deputy director, Office
of Educational Relations, American National

MAY 1962

the Parnamiram Airport. There, smiling and
greeting me, were at least forty people—the
teachers with whom I had worked in the
Research Center, the commanders of the
naval and air bases, the Spanish Consul, the
President of the University, the Secretary of
Education, the missionaries—all had driven
ﬁfteen miles in the early morning to say good-
by to a Texas school teacher. Again the jet
hummed over the arid, rolling hills and damp
fertile valleys of sugar cane and cotton—
inside me was the conviction that I had lived
and worked for a short time with great people
who could build the country of tomorrow.

Red Cross; Maurice Flagg, editor, Junior Red
Cross Magazine"; and Nan H. K. McKinney,
assistant editor, Ofﬁce of Educational Rela-
tions Publications, conferred with Margaret
Rasmussen, editor, and Beverly Karlen, ACEI
Fellow, regarding the revision of their safety
suggestions for primary teachers.

0 An informal reception was held in the
Center for Deborah Partridge Wolfe on March
5. Dr. Wolfe, an educator on leave from
Queens College, The City University of New
York, is the newly appointed education chief,
Committeee on Education and Labor of the
House of Representatives. Organizations
holding membership in the Women’s Joint
Congressional Committeee and the Clearing
House on Public School Legislation were
invited to the reception, after which an in-
formal discussion of current educational bills
was held.

0 Building Fund contributions continue to
ﬂow in steadily. An extra payment of $1,000
against the principal of our mortgage was
made in March, bringing the total of extra
payments to $9,500 this ﬁscal year.

Children’s Bureau Fifty Years Old
The Children’s Bureau, established in 1912,

was honored with an anniversary celebration
on April 9 in the Statler Hilton Hotel, Wash-
ington, D. C. The Citizens’ Committee for the
Children’s Bureau Fiftieth Birthday was
headed by Mrs. John F. Kennedy, honorary
chairman. Alberta L. Meyer, executive secre-
tary, represented ACEI at the all-day anni-
versary event.

The opening session dealt with “2012—A
Look at the Future of Children for the Next

433

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

50 Years”; the luncheon session, “Children——
Our Universal Concern”; the afternoon ses-
sion, “1912—A Visual Presentation of the
Bureau’s Past”; the dinner session, “1962——
Today’s Children.”

Abraham Ribicoff, Secretary of Health,
Education, and Welfare, commented: “This
look backward at accomplishments, forward
to new challenges, should give us all new
insights into ways in which we can best serve
children, whether as members of public and
voluntary organizations, or, most importantly,
as parents.”

U. S. Ofﬁce of Education Reorganized

A reorganization of the Oflice of Education,
effective April 1, established three bureaus for
program operations and set up new units in
the office of the Commissioner. The changes
were necessitated, Commissioner Sterling M.
McMurrin said, by new developments in edu-
cation in recent years and increased responsi-
bilities of the Ofﬁce of Education which, in
addition to its traditional functions of gather-
ing and disseminating information and giving
consulting service, now administers the Na-
tional Defense Education Act, School Assist-
ance for Federally-Affected Areas, Cooper-
ative Research and other new or expanded
programs.

The three bureaus established by the re-
organization are: Educational Research and
Development, International Education and
Educational Assistance Programs. Each will
be headed by an associate commissioner.

Elementary, secondary and higher educa-
tion program units are consolidated into the
Bureau of Educational Research and Develop-
ment for the purpose of strengthening the
ability of the Ofﬁce to coordinate established
programs involving more than one level of
education. This bureau has ﬁve divisions, one
of them a Division of Elementary and Second-
ary Education to continue activities previ-
ously performed in the Division of State and
Local School Systems. The new division will
place more emphasis on programs for the
education of children with special needs.

The other four divisions in the Bureau of
Educational Research and Development are
Educational Statistics, Educational Research,
Higher Education, and a Division of Con-
tinuing Education and Cultural Affairs.

The Bureau of International Education
assumes the duties of the former Division of
International Education and will contain a
Division of International Education Studies

conducting comparative studies and a Divi-
sion of Technical Assistance and Exchange
Programs for teacher exchange activities and
technical assistance programs involving edu-
cation.

The Bureau of Educational Assistance Pro-
grams will bring together all Office of Edu-
cation programs concerned with financial
assistance.

The Ofﬁce of the Commissioner will now
include a National Panel of Consultants to
the Commissioner. The panel is to be com-
posed of persons of high competence in
various ﬁelds important to education. Its
members will be available for consultation
individually or in small groups.

Major units within the Ollie-e of the Com-
missioner now will be an Ofﬁce of Informa-
tion, Office of Administration, Ofﬁce of Field
Services, and Ofﬁce of Legislative and Pro-
gram Planning.

Field Work

Lucile Lindberg, ACEI president, continued
her field work with Visits in April to New
York State ACE, Tennesseee ACE, and the
Cary and South Bend branches in Indiana.

On her schedule for May are trips to the
ACE’s of Watertown, New York; Bridgewater
State Teachers College, Massachusetts; and
Plattsburgh State University Teachers College,
New York.

Sue Arbuthnot, immediate past ACEI vice-
president representing intermediate educa-
tion, will visit the combined meeting of the
Lucy H. Meacham ACE and Wichita ACE in
Kansas in May.

ACEI staff members visited the following
branches in April: Jefferson County, Kentucky
——Margaret Rasmussen; Montgomery County,
Maryland—Beverly Karlen. In May, Florine
Harding will visit the branches of Syracuse
and Watertown, New York.

Newbery and Caldecott Awards

Elizabeth Speare, Wethersﬁeld, Connecticut,
will be awarded the John Newbery Medal this
year as author of “the most distinguished
contribution to American literature for chil-
dren,” The Bronze Bow, published by Hough-
ton Mifﬂin, Boston. Marcia Brown, New York,
will receive the Randolph Caldecott Medal as
artist of “the most distinguished American
picture book,” Once a Mouse, published by
Charles Scribner’s Sons, New York.

Both Winners received the award previously

—Elizabeth Speare in 1959 for The Witch 0f

 

 




 

 

 

 

Blackbird Pond and Marcia Brown in 1955
for Cinderella.

The 1962 medals will be presented on June
19 at the American Library Association an-
nual conference in Miami Beach. Selection of
winners of both awards is made annually by
an American Library Association committee
appointed to consider nominations made by
librarians and teachers throughout the coun-
try. The Newbery award is named in honor
of an eighteenth century London bookseller
who promoted the publishing of children’s
books. The Caldecott medal is named for an
English artist who illustrated some of the most
beautiful children’s books of the nineteenth
century.

You Were Represented

Joint Conference on Children and Youth
(annual meeting of Council of National
Organizations, in conjunction with ﬁftieth
anniversary observance of founding of Chil-
dren’s Bureaul, anshington, D. C., April
8-13, by Alberta L. Meyer, executive secretary,
and Beverly Karlen, Fellow.

National Civil Liberties Conference, Wash-
ington, D. C., March 29-30, by Margaret
Rasmussen, editor, and Anna D. Halberg,
staff associate.

Books for Children

Editor, HAZEL WILSON

DR. DICK. By Dorothy Kunhardt. Pictures
by Fritz Siebel. New York: Harper &
Bros., 49 E. 33d St., 1962. Pp. 63. $1.95.

Thls story about a kindly doctor seeking a

cure for his hiccups as he makes his daily

rounds is amusing and may encourage chil-
dren to think that a doctor is a good friend
to have. The pictures are humorous, too, and
help tell the story. The size of the book makes
ﬁgxasy for small hands to hold. Ages 4-8.—

JORGE EL CURIOSO. By H. A. Rey. Trans-
lated into Spanish by Villa Fernandez.
Bostom Houghton Miﬁlin Co., 2 Park St.,
196.2' Un-Paged. $3. That twenty-year-old

aVOrlte, Curious George, will be popular with

boys and girls beginning Spanish. Many of

MAY 1962

Meetings of Other Organizations

National Education Association, 100th an-
nual meeting, Municipal Auditorium, Denver,

Colorado, July 1-6.

1963 ACEI Conference Location

In 1963 the Association will hold its Annual
Study Conference in Miami Beach, Florida,
the week of April 21, one week later than this
usual Easter-week event. Program details will
be announced later. Members and friends of
the Association are urged to note the dates on
their calendars and to make plans to attend.

Administrators Urge More
Kindergartens

The American Association of School
Administrators at its 1962 convention in
Atlantic City voted in favor of making kinder-
garten a part of the public school system
everywhere in the United States. One of the
major resolutions adopted by the administra-
tors at the ﬁnal business session on February
21 was that each state develop and maintain
a school system that insures free public edu-
cation from kindergarten through at least two
years of college or technical education.

them will already know the story in English
by heart, and the familiar gay pictures of the
amusing little monkey will be greeted as old
friends. Children will be interested then in
how the story reads in Spanish. There is a
complete vocabulary at the end of the book
and helpful translations of phrases at the
bottom of each page of text. Ages 5-10.—
H.W.

A PET FOR THE ORPHELINES. By Natalie
Savage Carlson. Illustrated by F ermin
Rocker. New York: Harper & Bros., 49 E.
33d St., 1962. Pp. 97. $2.95. A third book

about the twenty happy French orphans is as

engaging as the other two. The orphans long
for a pet but quarrel about what the pet shall
be. Finally even Josine, the perklest of the
orphans, is satisﬁed with a kitten. The orphans
acquire not just one kitten but ten. Nice

French ﬂavor and amusing illustrations. Ages

8-]2.——H.W.

(Continued on next page)

435

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A PICTURE STORY OF ABRAHAM LIN-
COLN. By Lloyd Ostendorf. Illustrated by
the author. New York: Lothrop, Lee &
Shepard Co., 419 4th Ave., 1962. Pp. 160.
$3.50. Over 150 illustrations and a brief

text on each page portray the highlights of
Lincoln’s life in this most successful pictorial
biography. The book is obviously the result of
careful research, skill in illustration, enthu-
siasm of the artist-author for his subject and
the care of the publisher for good format. The
book would seem a “must” for children’s
libraries and a ﬁne gift for any child interested
in Abraham Lincoln and his times. Worth
every cent of the price. All ages.—H.W.

THE RICE BOWL PET. By Patricia Miles
Martin. Illustrated by Ezra Jack Keats.
New York: Thomas Y. Crowell Co., 432
Park Ave., 5., 1962. Unpaged. $3.50. Ah

Jim, of Chinatown, San Francisco, searches

for a pet small enough to ﬁt into his rice bowl

and takes in the sights of Chinatown and the
city outside the Chinese quarter. Not an espe-
cially original plot but the story is enhanced
by its regional setting. Attractive illustrations.

Ages 4-8.—H.W.

SEE WHAT I FOUND. By Myra Cohn
Livingston. Illustrated by Erik Blegvad.
New York: Harcourt, Brace & Co., Inc.,
750 3d Ave., 1962. Unpaged. $1.95. A

small book about small things almost any child
could ﬁnd—an acorn, a bug, a rubberband, a
seashell. These and other small objects are
described in what some people would call
poetic prose and others free verse. The book
could expand a child’s ability to see with the
mind as well as with the eyes. Harmonious
illustrations. Ages 4-8.——H.W.

TARO AND THE TOF U. By Masako
Matsuno. Illustrated by Kazue Mizumura.
Cleveland: W 0er Publishing Co., 2231 W.
110th St., 1962. Unpaged. $3. The author

and illustrator of the deservedly popular A

Pair of Red Clogs tells another story, this one

of modern Japan. Taro goes to the bean curd

peddler and when given the wrong change for
his purchase is tempted to spend the extra
money for candy. Readers will be happy at
his triumph over temptation. Not preachy in
spite of having a moral. Gay illustrations.

Ages 6-8.—H.W.
436

WALTER RALEIGH. By Ronald Syme.
Illustrated by William Stobbs. New York:
William Morrow & Co., 425 4th Ave., 1962.
Pp. 96. $2.75. An interesting biography of

a man too often known only because of a

legend about him. In simple language and

less than a hundred pages the author gives a

vivid picture of the Elizabethan era with its

excitements and dangers. Sir Walter Raleigh

emerges not just as a courtier but a man of
culture. He is also depicted as brave and
adventurous, with an urge to explore faraway
lands. The harshness of the times as well as
the greatness is brought out clearly by an
author obviously at home with his subject.

Ages 8-12.—H.W.

SAVAGE SAM. By Fred Cipson. Decora-
tions by Carl Burger. New York: Harper &
Bros., 49 E. 33d SL, 1962. Pp. 214. $3. A

powerful, exciting tale about three children

captured by Indians and the stalwart-hearted
dog, Savage Sam, who trails them. Strong
characters and occasionally almost painful
realism. Fourteen-year-old Travis bears even
torture with fortitude. And his small brother,

Little Arliss, is as spunky a character as one

ever meets either in or out of ﬁction. For good

readers over ten.—H.W.

THE DAY WE SAW THE SUN COME UP.
By Alice E. Coudey. Illustrated by
Adrienne Adams. New York: Charles
Scribner’s Sons, 597 5th Ave, 1961. Un-
paged. $2.95. A picture book of distinc-

tion, with rhythmic prose describing two chil-
dren’s awareness of the sun from sunrise to
sunset. That there is scientiﬁc fact blended
with ﬁction adds to rather than detracts from
the appeal of the book. Outstanding illustra-
tions. Ages 5-9.——H.W.

THUMBELINA. By Hans Christian Ander-
sen. Illustrated by Adrienne Adams. New
York: Charles Scribner’s Sons, 597 5th
Ave., 1961 . Unpaged. $3.50. A charming

interpretation in pictures of one of Andersen’s
most beguiling tales. And it is a pleasure to
have the story in a good translation instead
of in a watered-down adaptation in which the
style of the distinguished author is lost. Gay
and beautiful pictures. Ages 5-10.——H.W.

CHILDHOOD EDUCATION

 




 

 

FABULOUS. By Dorothy Potter Benedict.
Illustrations by Joseph Papin. New York:
Pantheon Books, Inc., 333 6th Ave., 1961.
Pp. 220. $3. The author of Pagan The

Black has written a sequel which can stand by

itself. Good character development. The story

does not have the overly sentimental approach
of many horse stories. And the rainbow-
colored pony really does deserve his name,

Fabulous. Ages 8-12.——H.W.

“I CAN’T,” SAID THE ANT. Words and
pictures by Polly Cameron. New York:
Coward-McCann, Inc., 210 Madison Ave.,
1961. Unpaged. $2.50. A child’s natural

love of rhyme, his sense of humor and his
enjoyment of the identiﬁcation of objects from
pictures will all ﬁnd satisfaction in this tale
of mishap in the kitchen. After reading such
rhymes as, “ ‘Don’t be dumb,’ said the crumb,”
or, “ ‘Keep cool,’ said the stool,” a child may
be encouraged to think of other words which
rhyme. This is a book to have fun with either
in school or at home. Ages 4-7.—H.W.

I WATCH THE WORLD GO BY. By [[0
Orleans. Pictures by Pelagic Doane. New
York: Henry Z. Walck, Inc., 101 5th Ave.,
1961. Pp. 48. $2.75. Little verses with con-

siderable child appeal and an understanding

of a child’s world. There are purely descrip-
tive verses and others which explain such
matters as how things come in twos. But the
information offered seems more in answer to

a child’s natural curiosity than from a desire

on the author’s part to teach. The teaching,

that is, is incidental. Young children will easily
identify themselves with the “I” of the verses.

Attractively illustrated. Ages 5-9.—H.W.

JOURNEY TO ENGLAND. By Edith Unner-
stad. Illustrated by Ulla Sundin-Wickman.
New York: The Macmillan Co., 60 5th Ave.,

. 1961. Pp. 212. $3.25. This is not, as the

title might imply, a travel book about England.

It 1s the story about a Swedish boy and his

Slster who go to England to search for their

mother, who has mysteriously disappeared

after having been known to have arrived in

London. The wandering of the children about

the. English countryside is most vividly de-

scrlbed. There are hardships, discourage-

ments'and a surprising yet happy ending. A

realistlc story with good character develop-

ment. Ages 9-12.—H.W.

(Continued on next page)

MAY 1962

 

 

Guiding Creative Talent

by E. Paul Torrance, University
of Minnesota

Covers the basic needs, tools, and
goals for guiding creative individ-
uals. Illustrates the most common
problems of the highly creative
child and gives original approaches
to solving these problems.

April, 1962—288 pp.——Text Price:
$5.00

An Introduction to
Programed Instruction

by William A. Deterline,
American Institute for Research

Presents the principles and poten-
tialities of auto-instructional meth-
odology. Reviews the historical de-
velopment of programed instruc-
tion, experimental ﬁndings, and
the characteristics of the various
auto-instructional programs.

May, 1962—160 pp.——Paperbound
—Text Price: $2.95

The Teaching of Science
in the Elementary School

by June E. lewis, State University
of New York, and Irene C. Potter,
Elementary Science Coordinator,
Glens Falls (N.Y.) Public Schools

Facilitates an understanding of the
sequence, depth, and scope of a
good elementary school science
program.

1961—381 pp.—T ext Price: $7.50

For Approval Copies, Write:
Box 903

PRENTICE-HAll, INC.
Englewood Cliffs, N. J.

 

 

437

 




 

 

 

 

 

NOODLES, NITWITS, and NUMSKULLS.
By Maria Leach. Drawings by Kurt W erth.
Cleveland: World Publishing C0-., 2231 W.
110th St., 1961. Pp. 96. $2.95. Jokes, rid-

dles and old tales which have much in com-
mon with some of the “little moron” stories.
The folklorist who gathered the material from
various sources does not let her erudition get
in the way of her knowledge of what children
will ﬁnd amusing. The book might be useful
bait for boys reluctant to read. Ages 7-11 or
even a bit older or a bit younger.-——H.W.

ONCE A MOUSE. A FABLE CUT IN
WOOD. By Marcia Brown. New York:
Charles Scribner’s Sons, 597 5th Ave., 1961.
U npaged. $2.95. A fable from the folklore

of India about how a mouse is changed by
various stages into a tiger and how, when he
threatens to attack the hermit who has trans-
formed him, he is returned to his original
state and size. There is a ﬁtting strength and
boldness to the woodcuts which illustrate the
tale. A Caldecott winner for I961. Ages
4-10.—~H.W.

PEACOCK PIE. By Walter de la Mare.
Illustrated by Barbara Cooney. New York:
Alfred A. Knopf, Inc., 501 Madison Ave.,
1961. Pp. 117. $3. Even schools which

already have an edition of Peacock Pie in

their libraries should have this one, too. And

for a poetry-loving child one could not ﬁnd a

nicer gift. The illustrations, which show an

appreciation of the poems as well as artistic
excellence, and the lovely poems by perhaps
the most distinguished living English poet are
blended into a beautiful book. The poems
were written for children but have an ageless

appeal. All ages.—H.W.

PAPA PEQUENO: PAPA SMALL. By Lois
Lenski. Spanish translation by Maria
Dolores Lado. New York: Henry Z. Walck,
Inc., 101 5th Ave., 1961. Pp. 48. $2.50.
Ages 4-7.

PEDRO: EL ANGEL DE LA CALLE
OLVERA. By Leo Politi. New York:
Charles Scribner’s Sons, 597 5th Ave.,
1961. Unpaged. $2.50. Ages 7-10. Teachers

of Spanish in the elementary grades will

welcome the translation into Spanish of two
favorite books for small children. The many
young fry who have a deep affection for Papa

Small in English will be interested in ﬁnding

out how you say it in Spanish. There is the

English text and its Spanish translation on

each page. The book by Politi is a bit more

difficult and the text is entirely in Spanish.
There is, however, a vocabulary in the back
of the book. The delightful illustrations in
color seem to ﬁt the Spanish version of the
story even better than they did the English.
Although intended for the young child be-
ginning Spanish, these two hooks could be

useful to older children.——II.W.

SEVEN SIMEONS. Retold and illustrated by
Boris Arlzybashe/f. New York: The Viking
Press, 625 Madison Ave., 196]. No paging.
$3.50. A handsome edition of a Russian

folktale. In this story not one but all seven

brothers have magic gifts. [low they help

King Douda win his bride is told in text and

pictures which complement each other and

make an especially attractive book. Ages 6 up.

——H.W.

THE TOMTEN. Adapted by Astrid Lindgren
from a poem by Viktor Rydberg. Illus-
trated by Harald Wiberg. New York:
Coward-McCann, Inc., 210 gllmlison Ave.,
1961. Unpaged. $2.95. Beautiful full-page

pictures in soft colors interpret the nighttime

visits of the friendly troll, the Tomt‘en, around
the farmyard. He trips along “on his small
silent feet” and speaks to all the animals en-
couraging words which they can understand.

There is a dreamlike quality about the book,

and fantasy and reality are skillfully blended

in the illustrations. One of the most distin-

guished picture books of the year. Ages 4-8.

W.

Music

ECHOES OF AFRICA IN FOLKSONGS OF
THE AMERICAS. By Beatrice Landeck.
Illustrated by Alexander Dobkin. New
York: David McKay Co., Inc., 119 W. 40th
St.,1961. Pp. 184.$5.95. Beatrice Landeck

has a rare understanding of the development

of Negro music and jazz in America from its

African roots. This is a real contribution to

the study of American folksongs. Although

many of the songs are suitable for all ages,
some would be difﬁcult for young children t0
sing. But children from 10 up will ﬁnd them
delightful—Reviewed by LAURA PENDLETON
MACCARTENEY, Washington, DC.

CHILDREN’S SONGS FROM JAPAN. By
Florence White and Kazuo Akiyama.
Illustrated by Toshihiko Suzuki. New
York: Edward B. Marks Music Corp” 136
W. 52d St., 1960. Pp. 92. $4.95. Both

Japanese and English words are included in

 

 




 

 

 

this combination of folksongs and original
material. This is a wonderful way for chil-
dren of other lands to learn of the festivals
and customs of Japan. Many of the songs are
based on the pentatonic scale. Five- to seven-
year-olds will enjoy ﬁnding this scale on the
piano. The basic interests of children are
truly the same all over the world.——L.P.M.

THE POOH SONG HOOK. Verses by A. A.
Milne. Music by I]. Eraser-Simson. Illus-
trated by E. II. Shepard. New York: E. P.
Dutton & Co., Inc., 300 4th Ave., 1961. Pp.
148. $3.95. There is a rare meeting of

minds among author, composer and illustra-

tor. So often either the music or the illustra-
tions are not quite worthy of the verse. In this
case they have a real rapport. These are songs
to delight any child and most adults. The

King’s Break/(Isl. and Fourteen Songs were

originally published in 192514 and The Hunts of

Pooh in 1930. It is a joy to have them pub-

lished together. All ages.——L.P.M.

MOTHER GOOSE IN HAWAII. By Troy E.
Tabor. Illustrated by Lloyd Sex/on. Rut-
land, VL: Charles E. Tuttle Co., 28-30 S.
Main St., 1961. Pp. 32. $2.75. A good

many of these are traditional Mother Goose

verses, sometimes with traditional and some-
times with original tunes. They are simple to
sing, and the background material interspersed
throughout the book is done with a light touch
and childlike humor. Charming illustrations.

Ages 3-6.—L.P.M.

Science

THE LITTLE SHELL HUNTER. By Dorothy
C. Sorrel/s. Illustrated by Carol Rogers.
Austin, Texas: The Steck C0., Box 61,
1961. Pp. 40. $1.75. Easy reading and

detailed illustrations make this a valuable

text for the youngest child interested in

Identifying and knowing more about the

habits of a wide variety of seashore creatures.

Ages 6-8.—Reviewed by ALPHORETTA S. FISH,

School of Education, University of California,

Santa Barbara.

BIRDS OF THE WORLD. Written by Oliver
L. Austin, Ir. Edited by Herbert S. Zim.
Illustrated with paintings by Arthur Singer.
New York: Golden Press, Inc., 630 5th
Ave, 1961. Pp. 300. $11.98. A valuable

comprehensive encyclopedia of the bird

MAY 1962

families of the world, containing hundreds of
beautiful brilliantly colored paintings. In-
cluded in the text is a study of the evolution,
biological structure, habits and distribution
of birds. Important reference work for school
libraries. Ages 9 up.—A.S.F.

THE WONDER OF HEAT ENERGY. By Hy
Ruchlis. Illustrated with photographs and
drawings by Alice Hirsh. New York:
Harper & Bros, 49 E. 33d St., 1961. Pp.
186. $3.95. A dynamic description of heat

and its inﬂuence on man and his environment
clearly and accurately written and carefully
illustrated. Text is extensive in scope and
concepts are developed in detail. Included are
an explanation of the influence of heat on
weather, erosion, river and glacier formation;
a discussion of the uses of heat in the home, in
steam, gasoline, diesel and jet engines; a de-
scription of how heat energy is measured and
how the principles of heat are applied to
refrigeration; a consideration of the prop-
erties of heat and the relation of heat energy
to other energy forms. Ages 10 up.—A.S.F.

SEE ALONG THE SHORE. By Millicent E.
Selsam. Illustrated by Leonard W eisgard.
New York: Harper & Bros, 49 E. 33d St.,
1961. Pp. 45. $2.95. A well-illustrated,

cleverly written book which develops an aware-
ness of change and the intricate pattern of
relationships to be discovered at the seashore.
Included are a discussion of the tides, an
examination of the relationship existing be-
tween the living and non-living elements of
the sea, as well as useful information pertain-
ing to a wide variety of common seashore
plants and animals. Ages 8 up.—A.S.F.

THE FIRST BOOK OF AIR. By David C.
Knight. Illustrated with photographs and
drawings by Peter Costanza. New York:
Franklin Watts, Inc., 575 Lexington Ave.,
1961. Pp. 67. $1.95. A complete, well-

illustrated, carefully written introduction to

the basic concepts of air. Attention is given
to the Van Allen Radiation belts, the oxygen-
carbon dioxide life cycle, absolute and relative
humidity, jet streams, wind belts and air
pollution. Included is a consideration of the
composition and properties of air and ways
man has learned to utilize it. Simple air
experiments are included. Ages 8 up—A.S.F.

WHAT DOES AN ASTRONAUT DO? By
Robert Wells. Illustrated with photographs.

4-39

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

New York: Dodd, Mead & C0., 432 4th

Ave, 1961. Pp. 64. $2.50. An interesting,
timely description of the intricate control sys-
tem of a space vehicle and what an astronaut
needs to know about the operation and han~
dling of controls if and when the need arises.
Included are an explanation of how the space
craft is equipped, launched, tracked, moni-
tored and controlled; a description of the
work the astronaut may be expected to do in
space; and a preview of man’s trip to the
moon and the planets. Ages 8 up.—A.S.F.

WHAT DOES A DIVER DO? By Wayne
Hyde. [Illustrated with photographs. New
York: Dodd, Mead & C0., 4.32 41h Ave.
1961. Pp. 64. $2.50. A fascinating. well-

Written account of the work of the deep sea
diver. Includes a description of the training
they receive, the dress and equipment they
use, problems they encounter, how they eoni-
municate with each other and how the “ten-
ders” keep in contact with the diver. Excellent
photographs. Ages 9 up.~A.S.F.

ALL ABOUT SOUND AND ULTRASONICS.
By Ira M. Freeman. [Hus/rated will: draw-
ings and diagrams by Irving Ceis and with
photographs. New York: Random House.

Books for Adults

Editor, HELEN L. SACI

J

ACTIONS FOR MENTAL HEALTH: Final

eport of Joint C mmisszon on Mental

7-»ah.‘

':‘_‘~“"-‘—_‘t.’ "M: Li ﬁ—-—* *

1116., 457 dimlisnn rive”

1961. Pp. 141,
$1.05.

clearly developed,
meaningfully organized and carefully illus-
trated to make this a highly comprehen-
sive. easy-to-understaml study of sound. Con-
tains the Usual hasie «'nueepls of sound plus
an up-to-date :tt‘t‘utull of scientific investiga-
tion in the field of Ultrasonics and a discus-
sion of some of the ways in which doctors,
engineers have, utilized
ultrasonie wave energx' in their work. Ages 9
up. :\..\'.l".

Concepts are

ttlt‘lt‘nt‘nlnglsls :ttltl

l,ll“l'l 'l‘lll'l Wt).\l)lﬂli.\' ()l"
l'i:\l{'l‘ll. ”Vi/ten lii‘ //z«- 5111/] of Life Maga-

zine. Illustrate/l nil/1 p/zo/(rgraplzs and

pain/ings. .Ven' )'o,/.-_- (Joli/en Press. Inc..

(nil) .i/ll .‘lt'e.. I’lhl. I’p, 21/). 81.93.1‘
natural historv referem-e adapted from the
adult edition and similarly illustrated with
(‘thl‘ pit‘lttt‘es. 'l‘e\l is «lesigneil in make the
young reader aware of the, multiplicity of
plant and animal life \\ hieh exists in the world
and of how the laws of nature afleet these liv-
lneluded is interesting. pert]-
nent information on migration. evolution,
heredity and interdeiwndeney relationships
among animals. .ig'r'x ’) Hp. A317.

LIFE ON

ing organisms.

which agreeement Would he inevitable. and the
report is notable for its frank and ObJCCtIVe
evaluation of areas of disagreement and Our
present state of knowledge.

Recommendations are in four categorles:
(ll pursuit of new knowledge; (2) better use
of present knowledge and experienCe; (3)
public information on mental illness; and (4‘)
COSt, With pmposals for meeting it, of the PIP'
grams recommended. Recommendatlons 1n
the second category are most likely to en-
gender some professional disagreement, an
those in the fourth are almost certain to al‘OUSe
political controversy.

The ultimate usefulness of this report d?“
PCHdS 0n the public discussion and suppO.rt ll
Stimulates. It deserves careful study by inch-
Viduals and groups interested in the problen}S
of mental health. More importantIYo thlg’
document and its ideas deserve widesprea
dissemination if a comprehensive nation:
program to improve facilities for and tree ‘

CHILDHOOD EDUCATION

 




 

 

ment of mental illness is to be initiated.—
Reviewed by FREDERICK J. MCDONALD, Assist-
ant Professor of Education and Psychology,
Stanford University, Calif.

CHILDREN’S THEATRE AND CREATIVE
DRAMATICS. By Geraldine Brain Silas
and Hazel Brain Dunnington, Editors.
Seattle: University of Washington Press,
1961. Pp. 277. $595. To condense a review

of this book into a few short paragraphs is to

do it an injustice, for between its covers is a

goldmine of information about children’s

theatre and creative dramatics. Moreover, it
is authoritative information since the book’s
twenty-nine authors constitute a veritable

“Who’s Who” in this ﬁeld.

An orderly symposium of ideas and topics,
the book begins with background information
about children’s theatre including its history.
Part II relates to the execution of the chil-
dren’s theatre. Part III explores various
facets of creative dramatics. And three ap-
pendices and a classiﬁed bibliography provide
speciﬁc guidance and resources for activities
and programs in children’s theatre and
creative dramatics.

Except for the lack of good illustrations,
even the format of the book merits praise——
clear, easy-to-read print, good margins, ﬁrm
binding. Clearly, in this book the American
Educational Theatre Association and the
Children’s Theatre Conference, under whose
auspices it was developed, have not only real-
ized their wish to enlighten readers about their
ﬁeld but have done so with ﬂair and elegance.

——H.L.S.

MODERN ELEMENTARY SCHOOL SCI-
ENCE. By Willard J. Jacobson and Harold
E. T annenbaum. New York: Bureau of
Publications, Teachers College, Columbia
University, 1961. Pp. 194. $2.50. This

book presents with refreshing simplicity and

conciseness the fundamental issues concerning
elementary school science in American edu-
cation. Modern Elementary School Science is
the ﬁnal volume in the series of monographs
prepared by the Science Manpower Project
of Teachers College, Columbia University, to
aid in the improvement of science education
in the schools. It is designed as a useful plan
for action, an outline for schools and a guide

 

Big or little? .

uP_—d0Wn; Open—closed; on—off;

round—square; triangle.

ability to express thought.

 

..Upordown?...

Open or closed? .

NOW . . . A New Concept-Development Book!

KINDERGARTEN FUN by Mary N. Ambrose

This new book develops the basic concepts so essential to learning: big—little;
tall—~short;

Kindergarten Fun gives opportunities for the development of motor contrpll,
eye-hand co-ordination, and color recognition. It shows how to help t e

kindergartner grow socially, mentally,
opportunities for oral expression that will increase self-conﬁdence and the

PRENTICE-HALL, INC.
Educational Book Division, Englewood Cliffs, NJ.

. . Tall or short?—

fast——f aster ; full—empty ;

and emotionally, and how to give

 

 

MAY 1962

441

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

for commanities wishing to modernize already
existing science curricula.

Suggestions come from some sixty asso-
ciates in structuring the proposed two-dimen-
sion science program; thus, it is the product
of a team representing different communities
throughout the nation and deserves a close,
examination. The ﬂexible dimension is capa-
ble of accommodating a wide variety of ex-
periences reflecting sudden community events.
special projects, etc. The planned experiences
are from six broad areas of science: The
Earth on Which We Live; Healthful Living
Through Science; The Earth in Space;
Machines, Materials and Energy; The Physi-
cal Environment; and The Biological Environ-
ment. This is articulated with the K-12 science

concepts within each area, appropriate activ-

ities, important generalizations and key ques-
tions.

Every parent, teacher, and especially the
school administrator should read this book——
Reviewed by BARBARA SHALUCHA, Assistant

rofessor of Science, Indiana University,
loomington.

HELPING CHILDREN READ. By Peggy
Brogan and Lorene K. Fox. New Y or]: 17:
Holt, Rine/za-rt and Winston, Inc.,
Madison Ave, 1961. Pp. 330.

a delightful description of children in a cla

room grouped for reading, the authors tell,

among others, the story of Verna whose mother
spoke conﬁdingly to

There follows the account of the gropings
of a weakening teacher for justiﬁcation
coupled with reassurance to the parent, “Let’s
start Verna in II and then see how we come

out. She’ll probably improve enough that we
can make the change before long.”

materials for pupils guided individually by a
skilled and perceptive teacher. In order to
insure continuity in the development of
speciﬁc reading skills, the book suggests that
materials be selected and arranged so as to
encourage generalizations about word pat-

442

further, that
planned so that Chil-
rcuding’ tor a variety
and writing are con-

terns and language patterns and.
the school program be
drcn will need and Use
of purposes. Reading
sidered complementary. mutually reinforcing
skills. While this is not a revolutionary new
concept. it is explored with more than usual
thoroughness in this book. :\s the authors
consider how best to develop these two com-
munication skills. they recognize that “all
writing involves reading." They have explored
a number activities rich in
opportunities for the functional use of reading
and writing.

()i ('ltlSSI‘tHHlt

'l‘wo tinal chapters detail student teacher
reactions to the individualized reading pro-
gram and techniques for reporting pupil prog-
ress in such a program to parents.

This is a provocative book for those who
question the. feasibility of an individualized
reading program and a resource for those
who contemplate initiating such a program.—
Rcviewed by .\I..m(;.-uu;'r ”tunes, Asszsfant
Pro/essor 0/ Edam/ion. Hui/er Universzty,
I n (I iana p01 is.

HELPING YOI‘R CHILI) LEARN THE
NEW ARlTllMl‘i'I‘lC. [3r Darn] Engler.
’rew York: Criterion lino/rs. lmx, 257 4th
Ave, 1961. Pp. 160. 513.95. The author

is probably on safe ground when he. assumes

that frustrated parents the country around
will welcome sale conduct through the maze
of their children’s arithmetic. lessons.

This timely volume, written in interesting
and non-professional language. clarifies the
nature of the number system. explains the
methods through which teachers make mean-
ingful the fundamental operations. and de-
scribes the arithmetic curriculum grade by
grade. The text is illustrated with figures and
charts of concrete devices used in the class-
room, included to help adults see arithmetic
as their children are being taught to see it.

If this book inspires in parents the self-
conﬁdence they need to enjoy working With
their children in homework sessions, it will
be a useful contribution to the home librafY-

urthermore, for the busy teacher who WOutd
like a review of elementary school arithmetlC
1n popular dress, the book provides a pleasant
sortie into familiar territory—Reviewed by
MA.XINE DUNFEE, Associate Professor of Edu-
cation, Indiana University, Bloomington.

CHILDHOOD EDUCATION

 




 

 

 

YOUR PRESCHOOL CHILD. By Dorothy
Kirk Burnett. N ew York: Holt, Rinehart &
Winston, 383 Madison Ave, 1961. Pp.
272. $4.95. This is a comprehensive book

of useful information for living with pre-
school children, ages two to seven, along with
practical suggestions for their play activities.
Written in a humorous, witty manner, this
treasury of ideas, methods and approaches is
written expressly for parents who want to
learn to live, work and play together with
their preschool children in happiness-building
ways. The book fills every need for exciting
fun—whether it’s providing seasonal play
activities, planning a party, arranging a vaca-
tion trip or selecting a toy.

A detailed table of contents serves as a
ready reference to the complete collection of
materials the author has selected. Written
in an unconventional style, using refreshingly
clever terms, the style bears witness to the
author’s exuberant spirit as well as her creative
personality; however. the small print may
create a problem for the reader.

Aside from its completeness, another dis-
tinctive feature of the book is the logical
classiﬁcation of the author’s wealth of ideas.
Also included are a supplement of recom-
mended books and a “Basic Home Library”
that can be bought for $1.70.

Parents will ﬁnd a wealth of resource ma-
terial in this book designed expressly for
them to take the work out of play—Reviewed
by MARIAN C. SWAYZE, Instructor and Pre-
school Critic, University School, Indiana
University, Bloomington.

THE EXCEPTIONAL CHILD. A BOOK OF
READINGS. By James F. Magary and
John R. Eichorn, Editors. New York: Holt,
Rinehart & Winston, Inc., 1960. Pp. 561.
$5.50. The editors have prepared a book

useful to both preservice and inservice
teachers. The book may serve as an introduc-
tlon to those entering the ﬁeld of special edu-
cation or as a review for those who wish to
freshen their Viewpoints and widen their
knowledge without the foray to the library.

The usefulness of the book rests upon the
selection of articles for each of the usual areas
Of exceptionality: retarded mental develop-
ment; neurological, communication, ortho-

MAY 1962

pedic, visual, social-emotional handicaps.
Articles were also selected for the educationally
retarded, the gifted child, the child with a
handicapping medical condition, and the child
with a cultural handicap. Six articles were
included under the topic, “The Exceptional
Child in Contemporary Society.”

The introductions to each section and the
paragraph before each article (written by the
editors) give the reader a quick over-View of
ideas presented. The range of authors as well
as the content covered provide the reader with
a rich source of information—Reviewed by
BEARNICE SKEEN, Department of Education,
Western Washington State College, Belling-
ham. '

YOU CAN TAKE THEM WITH YOU. By
Violet Weingarten. New York: E. P. Dutton
& Co., Inc., 300 4th Ave, 1961. Pp. 239.
$3.95. In a gay, tongue-in-cheek style, the

author writes her own Baedeker for those

couples who “would just love to go to Europe
for the summer” but can’t quite ﬁgure out
what to do with the children.

(Continued on next page)

 

With

CUISENAIRE RODS

learning mathematics
becomes an exciting process of discovery!

Cuisenaire® rods and texts help teachers and
pupils learn the essential concepts of mathematics
rapidly and thoroughly. These colorful and attrac-
tive materials are used in all grades. They are
ideal for learning all school arithmetic concepts,
as well as fundamental ideas of algebra and
geometry. Written work is used at all stages. A
new classroom kit, suitable for a class of 25 pupils,
is now available. Suitable for NDEA purchase.

For free, illustrated information write to:

CUISENAIRE COMPANY
OF AMERICA, mc.

235 East 50 Street, New York 22, NY.

 

 

 

443

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

She writes from experience after a summer
abroad with her husband and two teenage
daughters. “Your children will probably be
excellent traveling companions,” she says,
“but best of all if they’re with you, you won’t
have to worry about what they are ‘up to’ at
home. And prosaic culture and scenery can
be happily endured by teenagers if sandwiched
in between enough beaches and other equally
delightful spots where they can meet other
young people (of both sexes) .”

Along with such bits of advice, this book
contains detailed and practical information
about planning itineraries; methods of travel;
which clothes to take; laundry problems;
restaurants, both “plain and fancy”; medical
help if needed; where to stay; souvenirs and
some essentials to take along.

Anyone who is planning a trip abroad will
want this book. Not only entertaining, it is
a useful guide that will save hours of time and
weeks of worry—Reviewed by VIRGINIA
SAVAGE, Teacher, Bloomington Metropolitan
Schools, Indiana.

CREATIVITY IN TEACHING—INVITA-
TIONS AND INSTANCES. By Alice Meil,
Editor. Belmont, California: Wadsworth
Publishing Co., 1961. Pp. 300. $5.50. As

Miss Meil points out in the foreword of the
book, “Creativity as a concept abstracted
from a particular context began to receive
wide attention and close scrutiny in the
ﬁfties.” During this period, psychologists,
scientists, and representatives of business and
industry have exhibited mounting interest in
exploring the meaning of creativity and in
gaining more understanding of the creative
process as it applies to their ﬁelds of human
activity. In this book Miss Meil and others
give similar attention to the teaching ﬁeld.

The authors treat the subject of creativity
in a variety of ways so that the book is not a
uniﬁed development of the subject. Rather it
is a symposium of ideas held together by their
common premise that teaching is a creative
act and that the processes involved in this act
can be analyzed and studied and its compo-
nents identiﬁed.

Each writer discusses the subject of crea-
tivity in teaching with innovation and origi-
nality. None provides “pat” answers to the
question, but the freshness of each writer’s

444

approach to the problem makes the book an
absorbing “invitation” to think about crea-
tivity in teaching and to learn more about it.
The authors make it easy for readers to accept
this invitation by compiling an annotated
bibliography that includes the most recent,
provocative writing on the subject.—H.L.S.

EDUCATION OF THE SLOW-LEARNING
CHILD, Third Edition. By Christine P.
Ingram. New York: The Ronald Press Co.,
1960. Pp. 390. $5.50. This third edition

represents a book that has become somewhat
of a classic in the education of mentally handi-
capped children. The basic form of the text
has changed little since 1935. Designed as a
general text for teachers and administrators
working with handicapped children, it in-
cludes a general description of mentally
handicapped children, educational objectives,
selection, programs at the elementary and
secondary levels, plus suggestions in the areas
of language arts and number skills.

The unique aspect of this book—as with
its forerunners—is the amount of space de-
voted to a discussion of the use of units. Five
chapters, more than one quarter of the text,
are devoted to the rationale, selection and use
of units. It is unfortunate that the suggested
implementation of the units and the examples
given do not follow the rationale more closely.
Units on “Music” and “The Poultry Show,”
for instance, do not seem to ﬁt “. . . real life
situations” or “ . carry-over into life out-
side of school” which are criteria for selection
of a unit.

The distinct addition to the third edition is
a chapter devoted to the severely retarded
child. This chapter discusses some of the
problems and projects that have developed
considerable interest in the past ﬁfteen years.
It is unfortunate that the book did not reflect
the similar growth of secondary programs for
the mentally handicapped and the knowledge
and growth in programs for the brain dam-
aged mentally retarded child.

. The teacher and the administrator may P05"
Slbly ﬁnd this a useful ﬁrst reader in the edu-
cation of the mentally handicapped child. But
don’t trade in your old edition for this model
~the difference is very little chrome-y
Reviewed by JAMES BILLINGSLEY, Assistant
Professor of Special Education, Indiana Uni-
versity, Bloomington.

CHILDHOOD EDUCATION

 




 

 

Bulletins and Pamphlets

Editor, MARIAN JENKINS

ABOUT THE KINDERGARTEN. By Eliza-
beth Mechem Fuller. What Research Says
to the Teacher, #22; Department of Class-
room Teachers, American Educational Re-
search Association. of the National Educa-
tion Association. Washington, D. C. : NEA,
1201 16th St., N.W., February 1961. Pp. 33.
25¢. The author has drawn from research,

surveys, reports and experience those mate-

rials about the kindergarten which promise to
be of most help to teachers.

The “maze of contradictions” in the re-
search on the characteristics of ﬁve-year-olds
makes educational planning exciting yet diffi-
cult. On what basis does a school make a
decision regarding the “exposure-mastery
question” when planning for the kindergarten?
“Since most kindergartens convene for no
longer than two to three and a half hours
daily” will a “regular portion of the day” be
devoted “to set and formal instruction in a
single subject (such as reading or numbers) ,”
thus automatically depriving “other subjects
of their fair share of attention”? Will the
nature of the developmental process be inter-
preted as the gradual sequential emerging
from the child of skills, understandings and
attitudes, when he is provided with “broad
individualized, informal, varied and challeng-
ing experiences, largely child-centered”? Or
will it be interpreted as the need for skills,
understandings and attitudes to be taught, thus
emphasizing “formalized lessons in a setting
which requires approximately the same for
all children”?

“ What will the school’s attitude be toward

readlness” and individual differences? “Nar-
rowly conceived, it means getting ﬁve-year-

Olds ‘ready’ to read by seating them at tables

or desks to practice with pencil and paper,

the identical exercises they will be doing later
on in school. Broadly conceived, readiness

Programs provide ﬁve-year-olds with the rich-

est possible learning atmosphere for problem

solving and appreciations compatible with
their individual and group levels of develop-
ment.” “Success in reading and other subjects

18 associated with the breadth of the events

which the Child has had time and opportunity

to explore, to experience, to ask about, to hear,
and to read.”

MAY 1962

Parents and administrators will ﬁnd this
bulletin did not forget them when drawing
together the research. It deals not only with
the kindergarten program, the child, and the
teacher but also with some of the research on
parents and school personnel.

Although there is a bibliography of selected
research references, this is referred to only in
the section, “Topics for Future Study.” The
bulletin would have been more useful if refer-
ences to the research had been made directly
in connection with the topics under consider-
ation. It is difﬁcult at times to determine what
has been drawn from research and what from
surveys and teacher experience.

The author brings together her thinking in
this basic premise of the kindergarten: “broad
exposure to fundamental learnings underlying
all subjects is better for the ﬁve-year-old than
the narrow mastery of a few subjects. The
available research does not offer an answer to
these alternatives. Experience, however, sup-
ports a continuation of past practices with
some increased attention to problem solving
in ways that are meaningful to the life and
experience of the ﬁve-year-old. Before the

 

NATIONAL COLLEGE

OF EDUCATION
SUMMER SCHOOL

Contemporary Leadership in Elementary
Education at the Oldest Independent
College in the Field

For Teachers on the Job, Future Teachers,
Graduates Returning to Teaching

Graduate and Undergraduate Courses
(B. Ed. and M. Ed. Degrees)

Courses in Liberal Arts and Sciences and in Education

June 25-August 3
June 11-22

July 9-20

July 23-August 3
3-week Term: August 6-24

FEATURES

Graduate Program in Special Education
for Teachers of the Retarded (Educable)
Science in an Aerospace Age, August 6-24
Special Courses Leading to Certiﬁcation
Distinguished faculty. Small groups. Coed. Modest tuition.

CONVENIENTLY LOCATED ON
CHICAGO’S BEAUTIFUL NORTH SHORE

Write Ofﬁce of Admissions for Summer Brochure

NATIONAL COLLEGE OF EDUCATION
2826 Sheridan Road Evanston, Illinois

6-week Term:

2-Week Terms :

 

 

 

445

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

kindergarten takes on the goals and standards
of the elementary school, a great deal more
long-range research on the learning of young
children will be necessary.”—~—Reviewed by
MARY BEASLEY, Consultant, Elementary Edu-
cation, Oﬁce of Los Angeles County Super-
intendent of Schools, Calif.

FUNCTIONAL SCHOOLS FOR YOUNG
CHILDREN. By James L. Taylor, Lillian
L. Core, Hazel E. Cabbard. Special Publi-
cation #8, U. S. Department of Health,
Education & Welfare. Washington 25,
D. C.: Superintendent of Documents, U. S.
Government Printing Oﬁ‘ice, 1961. Pp. 8].
65¢. This is an eighty-one page booklet

dealing with the results of a nationwide sur-

vey of current practice in the design of school
facilities for children ages three through eight.

The survey includes 343 schools with grade

groupings of K—6, 1-6, K-3, 1-3, K-8 and 1-8.
Designed to help school administrators,

supervisors, teachers and laymen in planning
functional school facilities for early elemen-
tary education, it will also help architects
interpret the needs of young children and their
school program in relation to amounts of
space, space relationships and facilities.

Many excellent ideas are indicated which
will help any person or persons responsible
for designing and building school facilities
for young children.

The ﬁrst three chapters discuss succinctly
the growth characteristics of young children
and the school program or curriculum areas
which a good school will provide. There is
also ‘a brief history of the nursery school and
the kindergarten.

This publication is comprehensive and con-
densed and can quickly be utilized in the de-
velopment of educational speciﬁcations for
building purposes—Reviewed by AUBREY W.
CALVERT, Supervising Field Representative,
Bureau of School Planning, California State

Department of Education, Los Angeles
Oﬁ‘ice.

YOUTH PHYSICAL FITNESS, Suggested
Elements of a School-Centered Program,
Parts One and Two. President’s Council on
Youth Fitness, July 1961. Washington 25,
D. C.: Superintendent of Documents, US.
Government Printing Oﬂice. Pp. 111. 40¢.

With the aim, total ﬁtness of American Youth,

this bulletin stresses the physical aspects of

ﬁtness as an integral part of total well being.

446

To achieve this physical objective the report,
prepared by representatives of nineteen na-
tional health, education and religious organi-
zations, encourages school administrators to
include the following in their physical ﬁtness
program: (a) check all pupils for minimum
levels of physical ability using three simple
tests; (b) provide developmental physical
exercises and activities for all pupils for at
least ﬁfteen minutes daily; (c) test the physi-
cally underdeveloped pupils every six weeks
until they reach a minimum level: ((1) use
comprehensive, validated tests as part of the
on-going physical education programs; (e)
use test scores at least twice each year for
purposes of evaluation; (g) improve the
school health education program: (hi pro-
vide qualiﬁed leadership to supervise and
coordinate the physical ﬁtness program in the
school and with community agencies.

To assist administrators and teachers in
meeting these objectives, the booklet provides
many practical suggestions, tests, activities
and reference materials.

It should be pointed out, however. that these
exercises and activities are essentially remedial
in nature and are but one phase of a balanced
program of physical education. Also, identi-
fying a child as physically underdeveloped
could cause emotional involvement of both the
pupil and his parents. The entire screening
procedure, the results of the tests and the
suggested program must be carefully inter-
preted to the pupil and his parents. Children
in remedial classes should be permitted oppor-
tunities to engage in selective games as well
as in the developmental exercise prograni.——
Reviewed by LLOYD E. WEBSTER, Director,
Division of Health, Physical Education and
Youth Services, Office of Los Angeles County
Superintendent of Schools, Calif.

INDEPENDENT ACTIVITIES FOR CREA-
TIVE LEARNING. Practical SuggestiOnS
for Teaching, #2]. By Helen Fisher
Darrow and R. Van Allen. New York:
Bureau of Publications, Teachers College,
Columbia University, 1961. Pp. 110. $1.25.

One publication in the well-known series from

Teachers College. this highlights two im-

portant ideas, “independence” and “crea-

tivity.” These terms have been bandied about

a good bit lately. In the process they have

lost some of their force, yet their basic con-

notation carries great power. We need to 100k

CHILDHOOD EDUCATION

 




 

at “creative, independent learning” perhaps in
the same way that a group of teachers in San
Diego County did. This publication derives
from a handbook developed by these teachers.
Dr. Allen, director ol curriculum coordination,
and Dr. Darrow, curriculum coordinator,
organized the present, volume “as an aid to
classroom teachers who desire to place a
greater emphasis on creative sell-expression.”
The authors set the tone lor this monograph
in the quotation lroin J. ll. Rush, “The "lunc-
tion of intelligence, is not to copy but to in-
vent.’7 Those who truly believe this will lind
much to lead their thinking on as they ﬁrst
skim the charts and illustrative drawings and
later read sections selected at random; for
Instapce, :: lsingOSkills Through Sell-Expres-
SIOn or Organizmg the Daily Program for
Independent Activities.” Finally, they may
settle down to study Section One, “Action for
Independence,” wherein the authors state their

philosophy—“Indel)endence as a Lifelong
Value”:

Growth toward independence as a person begins
early in life and continues on as experiences ac-
cumulate . . .

By the degree of control and freedom which they
provrdez by the kinds of stimulations they ofier,
adults influence the quality of experiences children
may have. Children who have the necessary support
are those who are permitted to adventure and ex-
plore, inquire and express. discover and test for
themselves.

Here in a short quote lies the basic premise:
adults who care and who support children and
chlldren who are lrce to move ahead in their
learning—this is qualily leaching and quality
learnmg. This might even be called excellence
~another well-worn and carelessly used but
worthy. word. Criteria to aid a teacher in
evaluating himself and his planning are set
forth clearly in such questions as:

Will the independent activity require the child
to engage in productive thinking?

Will the activity use individual talents and skills?

Will the activity stretch the mind toward the
unknown?

Secure this volume which is ﬁlled with sug-
gestions made by teachers who are using them
regularly in the classroom. Begin to retool
and retrain yourself now! People in industry,

Iéledlcme, international relations are doing it-
an educators do less ?—M..l.

FIRST BOOK OF TEACHING MACHINES.
By Sam and Beryl Epstein. New York:
Franklin Watts, 1720., 1961. Pp. 48. $1.95.
n easy to read, readily understandable and

Profusely illustrated publication, this chil-

The PLAYGROUND

as MUSIC TEACHER
by CARABO-CONE, pub-
lished by HARPER &
BROS., NY 16 at $5. En-
dprsed by Univ. psycholo-
gists. Develops child’s reading & rhythmic
coordination. For Lecture-demonstrations,
consultation, or free brochure, write:
Cone #862, CARNEGIE HALL, NY 19.

A utlmrs.’

Your book can be published, promoted, distributed by success-
ful, reliable company. Fiction, non-ﬁction, poetry, scholarly,
religious and even controversial manuscripts welcomed. Free
Editorial Report. For Free Booklet write Vantage Press, Dept.
CE, l20 W. 3] St., New York 1.

 

 

 

 

WHEELOCK COLLEG

Specializing in: '
0 Teacher Preparation—B.S. Degree
0 Educational Leadership—MS. Degree
In a community of colleges and cultural opportunities

Address inquiries:

Director of Admissions, Wheelock College
Boston 15, Mass.

 

0 0 0 BE A MILLS-EDUCATE!) TEACHER

Young women combine liberal arts and professional studies
at this fully accredited independent college. 4-yr. course
leads to B.S. degree. Graduates certified to teach nursery,
kindergarten, primary grades. Extensive ﬁeld trips and an
unusual community work-program highlight study at Mills.
Cultural advantages of N. Y. Day and resident. Full
social program. September and February admissions.

Mills College of Education

Box C, 66 Fifth Ave., N.Y. ll 0 OR 5-0830

PERRY NORMAL SOHOOL

Sound training for young women who wish to be eﬁective
teachers in nursery schools, kindergarten and primary
grades and playground work. Special courses for those
with some college or normal school training. Small
classes. 3-year-diploma. Graduates can obtain a B.S. in
Education degree through college credits and Summer
School. Founded 1898. Now incorporated not for proﬁt.

Write today for catalog
ROOM 312, 815 BOYLSTON ST., BOSTON 16, MASS.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The listing of a company’s products
in CHILDHOOD EDUCATION does not
indicate that all of its products have
been approved by ACEI.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

dren’s book deﬁnes the purpose, procedure,
goals and the term, “teaching machine.”

A brief historical study is presented out-
lining the importance of pioneers such as
Pressey and Skinner as well as the tremendous
inﬂuence exerted by educators and psycholo-
gists as they become more deeply aware of the
process of learning.

Credit for major advances in this ﬁeld dur-
ing the last few years is given to the producers
of much of the “hardware” involved, but
greatest emphasis is given to the inherent value
of properly programmed material.

Examples of various types of programmed
material are given with justiﬁcations for their
use. “A teaching machine together with its
learning program is a bridge that permits an
expert teacher to reach countless students and
to serve each as a private tutor.”—Reviewed
by ROBERT BROWNING, Consultant, Division of
Audio-Visual Education, Oﬁce of Los Angeles
County Superintendent of Schools, Calif.

GUIDES TO NEWER EDUCATIONAL
MEDIA. By Margaret 1. Rufsvold and
Carolyn Guss. Chicago: American Library
Association { in cooperation with U.S. De-
partment of Health, Education & Welfare,
Office of Education), 1961. Pp. 74. $1.50.

The publication is one of the most useful to

come along in some time, particularly for

those people Wishing to locate information on

the newer media; namely, 16 mm ﬁlms, 35 mm

ﬁlmstrips, 2”x2” slides, 31%;” x4’ ’ slides,

kinescopes, educational television, radio pro-
grams and phonograph records. The booklet
has collected the sources which systematically

provide information on the new media. A

“must” for libraries, audio-visual depart-

ments, curriculum centers and administrators.

——Reviewed by ROBERT GERLETTI, Director,

Division of Audio-Visual Education, Office of

Los Angeles County Superintendent of

Schools, Calif.

RESPONSIBILITIES OF STATE DEPART-
MENTS OF EDUCATION FOR NURSERY
SCHOOL AND KINDERGARTEN, A
Policy Statement. Council of Chief State
School Oﬁfcers. Washington, D. C.: The
Council, 1201 16th St., N.W., June 1961.
Pp. 21. 30¢. This brief pamphlet is a policy

statement which presents a wealth of data to

support responsibility of state departments of
education to give guidance to nursery and
kindergarten education—both public and
private. The line of reasoning is: 1. Early

448

 

years of childhood are very important. 2.
Group programs for young children Wlll grow
because of changing social conditions. (For
example, 80% of mothers of families will be
in the work force by 1970.) 3. “The Ameri-
can people look to state and local school ad-
ministrators for courageous and intelligent
leadership in providing for the educational
needs of their children . . . for children 3 to 6
years of age, the need for this constructive
leadership is as imperative as in any other
area of educational planning.” 4. This leader-
ship should deﬁne standards, encourage con-
tinuous improvement and insure suitable
school environment for children. Recom-
mended certiﬁcation of teachers draws from
ACEI’s statement of standards.

The policy statement of this influential
group should be a useful tool for all those
working to deﬁne adequate standards in each
state—Reviewed by EVANcELINE BURGESS,
Director, Paciﬁc Oaks School, Pasadena,
Calif.

PROVIDING FOR OUR GIFTED CHIL-
DREN. Board of Education, City of New
York, Districts 35-40, 1961. Pp. 48. No
price. Under the leadership of Morris

Pincus, a group of ﬁfty teachers and super-
visors in New York City have developed a
valuable listing of suggested activities for use
with the gifted. The activities are designed
to extend learning opportunities and to pre-
vent, as the authors state it, “our most serious
educational casualties.”

The activities are preceded by an outline
of the characteristics of gifted children and
a list of eight recommended teaching ap-
proaches, such as encouragement Of critical
thinking, utilization of problem-solving ap-
proaches, and fostering of independence in
work and study.

Presumably for convenience in reference,
the activities are grouped for grades K-2, 3-4
and 5-6, but it is assumed that teachers in
New York and elsewhere would utilize the
entire range of suggestions on the basis of the
intellectual needs and special interests of
gifted individuals. Judicious selection from
the various ideas in art, music, language arts,
mathematics, science and social studies should
assist teachers greatly in their efforts to offer
appropriate learning opportunities for the
gifted—Reviewed by RUTH A. MARTINSON,

Professor of Education, Long Beach State
College, Calif.

CHILDHOOD EDUCATION

 




 

INDEX FOR VOLUME 38 (1961-62)

 

Title Index in Pursuit of Democratic GoalsﬂBalfour
Brickner ............................. Oct. 51
Adapting Literature to Drama Paul S. (iraukqard lntLermeCIljate Grade Study, An (Symposium)—
... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ........... ar. 322 ois awrence Moses ................. Dec. 174
Among the Magazmes Language Opportunities———Virginia M. Reid. .Jan. 212
%)ulla lMasionl‘lrlaveln . , , . . . , . 95, 205, 398 Learning Through Searching—Lucile Lindberg
orot 1y -. Spoer , ............ Feb. 301 ...................................... Oct. 58
Another Look at Edueatiorr Neville V. Scarfe Letter Writing Comes Alive—Kenneth D.
. ....... Apri1362 Hughes ............................ Ar.377
.AréhitlectkPlans for (lhildren. .-\n—i-William F. ILJetter to a Teacher, A—Gretel D. Smith. Jel)n. 237
oswc . , ,. . , .......... May 421 ife in Tune Through Enrichment by Other
Art of Living, The -l“I'an('<'s Mayfarth ..... Feb. 261 Interests—Delia Goetz ................ Feb. 276
Befriending Animals Christine Stevens. . .May 426 Living with Books—Leland B. Jacobs ..... Mar. 310
geyindf the Verbal Facade-«\Iillie Almy. . .Oct. 61 Making Books Come Alive for Children—Nancy
00 s or AdullsiJ‘lelen l.. Sagl Larrick ............................. Mar. 311
B ...k f . .Ad .182, :43. 202. 248. 298, 350, 392, 440 Mechanical Interest—A Neglected Consideration
00 s or u ts———. antes A. Smith ........ Sept. 37 ——Anita Gilbert .................... Sept. 19
Books for Children—~Hazq-l Wilson Message from the President, A—Lucile Lindberg
........ 32, 72. 1:32. 195. 244, 290, 340, 386. 4.135 ... .. Sept. 26
Build a Bridge to the East~ Hazel F. Cabbard ﬁlOTCI‘Y/alys Than One—R. Van Allen ...... NOV. 108
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .............. Dec. 166 6W attematics? For What Purpose?—~Peggy
Building 105] FChilllnlnis Eagerness To Read— NBrogielm ............................. Jan. 230
orene . 0x . . . . . ............... Jan. 215 we ere and There~Alberta L. Meyer 5
Building Self-Esteem at Home and School—~11. ......... 27, 70, 123, 193, 241, 288, 337, 383, 433 l
Gerthon Morgan . , . . ................. Feb. 278 N0 Wider Than the Heart Is Wide—Mary ll
Bulletlns and PamphletsmMarian Jenkins N Esther Mgwléliriler ----------------- --Mar- 326 l
.11. 149, 252, 305, 355, 44.5 . ursery an in ergarten Education (Sympo- V
Childhood Education (Teiiter and the Big Ques- ()Siun1¥-*IEIIle_Y J- IDetlkheIlVlﬂ MR . ~ DCC- 176 l
tlon . . . . . . . . . . . . . , ............ Nov. 126 ver t 1e 1tor’s es — argaret asmussen
Childhood Educati (I, ,,. . . . ,1 (,1 ti 1, ‘ ......... 48, 99, 152, 207, 256, 308, 356, 404, 451 l
of visitors . . _ . ll”. . in, l l , , _ , lmucl 1e 1:110? 130 Phonics in Focus—George D. Spache ...... Nov. 117
Ehmmunity Educates. The iNorma R. Law. .May 407 PoggrmScholar S Sollloquy, The—Stephen Ail/F 382
$311113;deInﬂuemw ”n Children ”7 1311;}: 409 Putting Yourself in Another’s Place—Howard
.' ‘. y, """ _' ‘ ‘ «I ' Thurman ............................ Feb. 259
Coffins for Clllldrc” A” World W19" ,\ _ Readiness ls Being—Ethelouise Carpenter. .Nov. 114
A pp? """" S -}- - - - - ; ------ . ---------- Sept. 24 Reading for Responsible Citizenship—~Frances
811251653? ‘ 01001 1“ lndia——Rachel Aber F D. Hine and Marian Jenkins ............ Nov. 102
Kor C ITFIDTI? ------------------- ~- 00L 6" Role of Love in Preschool Education, The—
Chilea_S 11 ,' All“ -------- , ---------- NOV- 119 Daniel A. Prescott ..................... Feb. 267
A 6—. y v1a Lavanchy Bobsien ......... Jan. 238 Sensing and Savoring Nature-Mrs. B, Tappen
ustralla—Jean M. Adamson.. ....... Feb. 284 F ' h'ld F b 265
Bra7il—Cl .1 I \ _ 3er 1 ............................ e .
(1 1 ‘ yce .- Liartm ------- ~ - .May 439 Setting for Effective Social Learnings, A—Edna
*uTtﬁlrallY Deperfjd—A Matter oi Concern. Ambrose and Pauline Hilliard ........... Jan. 220
D e~Charles Mitchell . . . . . ......... May 412 Social Studies for Survival (Symposium)—-Agnes
emocracy—~Human Happiness and Life Fulﬁll- Snyder .............................. Dec. 170 .
menthuncan Howlett ............... Sept. 2 Striving for Depth—Mabel F. Altstetter. . . .Mar. 316 l
Education in Burma ................ . .Mar. 325 Study Conference, 1962 ACEI. . . .129, 177, 240, 291 ;

____________ Apr. 381 Studying Africa—Edward Warner Brice. . . .Dec. 156

Education in E: ' '
thlopla ..
Teaching Children for l omorrow—Marvin Martin

Emerging Nations: What Should We Know About

Their Cultures?_Vera 3110116168 Dean Dec. 155 .......... . ........................... A pr. 359
Environment for Skills—Wanda Robertson. .Jan. 210 Tune for Sclence—Ruthh Rolahei. W‘ ' ld TliIa—I—l- 225
Experiences in a School (S m osium)—Jean United Nations and t e ea or , e

Murray ‘ y p. D 172 Chester Bowles .................... ..Dec. 159
Ex - ' ' ' ' ' '. ‘ ' ' ; """"" , """ ec. Universality of Differences—Margaret L. Cor-

Jpeélment 1n 1nd1v1duallzed Reading, An—Ira mack .............................. Oct. 54
Frei' ordon and Chrlstine H- Clark ------- NOV- 112 Voices Around the World—Dagny Blanchard

emg TeaCherS T0 Teach—Arthur W. F oshay ................................ Dec. 190
F """"""""""""""""""""""" . Apr- 367 What Makes a Difference,—Ruth U. McCracken
CFOm Around the World ............ ..Dec. 188 .................................... Mar. 319
eorge Wanted In—Marie Zimmerman Solt When Teachers Teach—Marie M. Hughes

. ................................. . . . Apr. 374 ..................................... Apr. 370
Glft To See Ourselves as Others See Us, The— With Life So Long, Why Shorten Childhood?—

Eleanol: Anglin, Helen llcNan’lara and Mary Winifred E. Bain ..................... SCpt. 15

L011 Rlccio ......................... Feb. 281 World Children Face, The—C. W. Hunnicutt
Goals for Education—Helen Hefiernan. . . . Sept. 4 ................................... Sept. 10
Greater Reading Power Needed Todav—ROIna Your Chlld’s Self-Picture—Katherine H. Roe

Cans ' - - - . - ' Nov. 104. .................................... Mar. 333

 




 

 

 

 

Author Index

Adamson, Jean M. —C011ce1ns for Children Are

World Wide . . . in Australia ........... Feb.
Ahn, Hi Ok—Concerns for Children Are World
Wide . . . in Korea .................... Nov.
Allen, R. Van—More Ways Than One ..... Nov.
Almy, Millie—Beyond the Verbal F agade ..Oct
Altstetter, Mabel F.—Striving for Depth. Mar.

Ambrose, Edna and Pauline Hilliard— A Setting
for Effective Social Learnings ........... Jan.
Anglin, Eleanor, Helen McNamara and Ma1y Lou
Riccio—The Gift To See Ourselves as Others

See Us ............................... Feb.
Bain, Winifred E. —With Life So Long, Why
Shorten Childhood? . ..Sept
Blanchard, Dagny——Voices Around the World
.................................... Dec.
Blumenfeld, Ruth—Community Inﬂuences on
Children ........................... May
Bobsien, Sylvia Lavanchy—Concerns for Chi]-
dren Are World Wide . . . in Chile. . , . . .Jan.

Bowles, Chester—The United Nations and the

284
119
108

61
316

220

281

15
190
409
238

Real World ........................... Dec. 159
Brice, Edward Warner—Studying Africa. . .Dec. 156
Brickner, Balfour—In Pursuit of Democratic

Goals ............................... Oct. 51
Brogan, Peggy—New Mathematics? For What

Purpose? ............................ Jan. 230
Carpenter, Ethelouise—Readiness Is Being.Nov. 114
Clark, Christine H. and Ira J. Gordon—An

Experiment in Individualized Reading. . .Nov. 112
Corey, Stephen M.—The Poor Scholar’s Solil-

oquy ................................ Apr. 382
Cormack, Margaret L.—Universality of Differ-

ences ................................ Oct. 54
Dean, Vera Micheles—Emerging Nations: What

Should We Know About Their Cultures? .Dec. 155
F airchild, Mrs. B. Tappen—Sensing and Savoring

Nature .............................. Feb. 265
Fletcher, Ruby J.—-Nu1sery and Kindergarten

Education (Symposium) ............... 176
Foshay, Arthur W.——Freeing Teachers To Teaecli

.................................... Apr. 367
Fox, Lorene K. ——Building on Children’s Eager

ness To Read ......................... Ja an. 215
Gabbard, Hazel F.—Build a Bridge to the East

..................................... Dec. 166
Cans, Roma—Greater Reading Power Needed

Today ............................... Nov. 104
Gilbert, Anita—Mechanical Interest—A Neg-

lected Consideration .................. Sept. 19
Goetz, Delia—Life in Tune Through Enrich-

ment by Other Interests ............... Feb. 276
Gordon, Ira J. and Christine H. Clark———An

Experiment in Individualized Reading. . .Nov. 112
Graubard, Paul S.——Adapting Literature to

Drama .............................. Mar. 322
Haven, Julia Mason—Among the Magazines

................................... 95, 205, 398
Heﬁernan, Helen—Goals for Education. S.ept 4
Hilliard, Pauline and Edna Ambrose—Setting for

Eﬁective Social Learnings, A ........... Jan. 220
Hine, Frances D. and Marian Jenkins—Reading

for Responsible Citizenship ............. Nov. 102
Howlett, Duncan—Democracy—Human Happi-

ness and Life Fulfillment .............. Sept. 2
Hughes, Kenneth D.—Letter Writing Comes

Alive ............................... Apr. 377
Hughes, Marie M.——When Teachers Teach. .Apr. 370

 

llunnicutt, C. W. #The World Children Face
.................................... Sept. 10
Jacobs, Leland B.—Living with Books ..... Mm. 310
Jenkins, Marian~Bulletins and Pamphlets
..................... 41, 149, 252, 305, 355, 445
Jenkins, Marian and Frances D. Hine—Reading
for Responsible Citizenship ............ Nov.102
Larrick, Nancy—~Making Books Come Alive for
Children ......................... ar. '31]
Law, Norma R.—l‘|1e (3111111111111in Educates May 407
Lindberg, Lucile
Learning Through Sea1cl1i11g ....... Oct 58
Message from the President . ,. .Sept. 26
McCracken, Ruth M .-~What Makes a Difference?
.. Mar.319
McNamara, Helen. Eleanm Anglin and Mary
Lou Riccio—The Gift To See Ourselves as
Others See Us ......... .. F.eb 281
McWhirter, Ma1y l‘i‘SllIH--NO Wider Than the
Heart Is Wide . ............. Mal. 326
Martin, Clyde I.~—Conce1ns for Children Are
World Wide . . . in Brazil ............. \lay 430
Martin, Marvin——Teaching Children 101 T-o
morrow ........ . . , . Apr. 359
Mayfarth, Frances—— The Art of Living. . Feb. 261
Meyer, Alberta L.——News Here and There
27, 70, 123 193, 241, 288, 337,383, 433
Mitchell, Charles— The Culturally Deprived—A
Mattei of Concern .. ............. May 412
Morgan, H. Gerthon—Building Self- Esteem at
Home and School . . . , . . ........... Feb. 278
Moses, Lois Lawrence—An lntermediate Gracie
Study (Symposium) ........... Dec. 174
Murray, Jean—Experiences in a School (Sym-
posium) .. ........... Dec. 172
Prescott, Daniel A.——The Role of Love in Pre
school Education .................... Feb. 267
Rasmussen, Margaret—Over the Editor’s Desk
.. .48 99, 152, 207, 256, 308, 356, 404, 451
Reid, Viiginia M. —-Langiiage Opportunities
................................... Jan. 212
Riccio, Mary Lou, Eleanor Anglin and Helen
McNamara—The Gift To See Ourselves as
Others See Us .. .................... Feb. 281
Robertson, Wanda—Environment for Skills. .Jan. 210
Roche, Ruth—Time for Science ........... Jan. 225
Roe, Katherine H.——Your Child’s Self-Picture
..................................... Mar. 333 ,
Sag], Helen L.—Books for Adults
........... 82, 143, 202, 248, 298, 350, 392, 440
Scarfe, Neville V.—Another Look at Education
................................... Apr. 362
Schlesinger, Rachel Aha-“Concerns for Children
Are World Wide . . . A Nursery School in
India ................................ Oct. 65
Smith, Gretel D.—A Letter to a Teacher. . . .Jan. 237
Smith, James A.—Books for Adults ....... Sept. 37
Snyder, Agnes—Social Studies for Survival
(Symposium) ............... Dec. 170
Solt,Ma11e Zimmelman ACeorge Wanted In
..................................... Apr. 374
Spache, George D.—Phonics in Focus ...... Nov. 117
Spoerl, Dorothy T.—Among the MagazinesFeb. 301
Stevens, Christine—Befriending Animals. . .May 426
Thurman, Howard —— Putting Yourself in
Anothers Place ...................... Feb. 259
Vosbeck, William F.—An Architect Plans for
Children ............................ May 421
Wilson, Hazel—Books for Children
........ 32, 72, 132, 195, 244, 290, 340, 386, 435

 

 

 




 

 

Over the Editor’s Desk

Dear Readers :

Some goals for education have priority in
the “soaring sixties.” Of the eleven state-
ments of goals made by the Commission on
National Goals (appointed by the President
in 1960), published in Goals for Americans
and reviewed by Helen Ilellernan, CHILD-
HOOD EDUCATION lSeptember 1961), two
stand out as having had rather full coverage
this past year in AClCl publications. These
two closely related goals are: the need for
the maximum development 0/ the individual’s
capabilities and a balanced instructional pro-
gram through the arts and sciences.

The ﬁrst two issues of CHILDHOOD EDU-
CATION, “Goals for Survival” and “Discipline
of Democracy,” set the stage by pointing up
belief in the democratic way of life. Only
through living our daily lives by democratic
values can we insure human happiness and
life fulﬁllment. In the September editorial
Duncan Howlett states that we must not under-
estimate our Gross National Product, for it
will bring greater abundance of the material
things of life, but that emphasis should be on
fulﬁllment in the quality of life we live. This
means we must have:

° higher educational standards
' richer educative environment
° better ways of working with children

' salarIes and teaching conditions good enough to
raw a suﬁiment supply of recruits into the teaching

ﬁeld.

. laHelen Heffernan’s article (September)
It Is Implied that we are not too cognizant of
what goals for Americans are. We need to
reexamine these goals—especially in these
tlmes when our democratic goals are being
threatened. Furthermore, we must realize
that It is only through education that a free
sOCIety can perpetuate itself. It is therefore
Imperative that the teachers of America know
the.basic values and through day-by-day 6X-
perlences in the classrooms help interpret
them to children. This was the intent of the

7
past “years CHILDHOOD EDUCATION and other
Pubhcatlons.

MAY 1962

MAXIMUM DEVELOPMENT

or THE INDIVIDUAL’S CAPABILITIES

The ﬁrst goal from Goals for Americans
reads: “The status of the individual must re-
main our primary concern. All our inStitu-
tions—political, social and economic—must
further enhance the dignity of the citizen, pro-
mote the maximum development of his Capa-
bilities, stimulate their responsible exercise,
and widen the range and eﬁectiveness of
opportunities for individual choice.”

For teachers this means:
. . every child is precious and of value

. . . the better we know children, the better
we can serve them . ,

. . instruction must be individualized to
meet each child’s needs and interests

. . . the child’s self-image affects his achieve-
ment; he must think well of himself

. . education must provide many oppor-
tunities for children to learn to make Wise
choices.

Every Child Valued

To enlarge upon the ﬁrst point, I shall. try
to weld together ideas from our publlcatlons
which stress that every child is preczous and

of value.

Today the world children face is one with
great mobility, and C. W. Hunnicutt remlnds
us in the September issue that due to thls we
have many “rootless children”——indeed root-
less adults, too. Families are uprooted .by
machines clearing slums, by constructing
highways, by moving from crop to crop, by
the lure of Suburbia, by accepting a better
job in another part of the country or by belng
sent overseas. Separated from then frlends,
children are expected to adjust to new
neighborhoods, new schools and to ﬁnd new
friends. Teachers can help these Insecure
newcomers in the classroom by seeing that
they are made to feel welcome and by recogs
nizing their contributions. Communltles must

451

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

help these uprooted families, for their insecure
feelings are transmitted to their children.

The culturally deprived children whom the
fourteen Great Cities School Improvement
Program seeks to help is reported in the May
issue by Charles Mitchell, staff writer for the
Detroit project. Here are the ways they are
working to improve educational opportunities
for children:

—setting up a day camp for 55 emotionally dis-

turbed children
—using YMCA and YWCA facilities and programs

—-sharing use of recreation facilities and per-
sonnel with Detroit Department of Parks and
Recreation

——expanding the use of public libraries: transport-
ing parents and children by shuttle and car and
sending Detroit Public Library Bookmobiles out
into the project neighborhoods

—cooperating with the Detroit Department of
Health and the Pilot Club of Detroit to staff and
operate a clinic which will do a complete inventory
of physical-nutritional needs of one school’s pOpu-
lation

—working with the Detroit Commission on Chil-
dren and Youth in compiling crime and delinquency
reports in project school areas

—extending contacts with neighborhood churches
and use of school facilities for non-religious youth
activities conducted by the churches

——using about 200 high school and college students
as teacher assistants and club leaders

———involving project staff in committees and plan-
ning groups for urban renewal, settlement house
work, neighborhood conservation and other com-
munity service activities vital to the Great Cities
Project

—making project staff speeches on school needs
and the culturally deprived child to 120 professional
and lay groups in and around Detroit.

Since a community can best be served by
individuals who have been developed to the
fullest, it sets one wondering why all school
systems have not sought the help of com-
munity resources to improve education for

all children. All children have value.

Ruby J. Fletcher’s article, “Nursery and
Kindergarten Education,” in the December
issue, tells that four-year-old Sue was learn-
ing that her teacher cared about her when her
mother was asked to stay at nursery school
the ﬁrst few days while Sue took time to feel

452

safe enough to decide that her mother could
leave. She was learning that she was impor.
tant.

We glibly say that we value every child.
But it is the non-conforming child, the one
who is different not only in behavior but in
the color of his skin and the shape of his eyes,
who is difficult for many to value. Marie Solt
Zimmerman’s article in April reports how
“George Wanted In.” He tried to win his way
in a strange way—by hitting and kicking.
This Japanese ﬁrst-grade boy who knew little
English was helped when role-playing by the
class was tried. When George was out of the
room the class discussed why George hurt
children and spoiled their work. This
teacher helped the class see the causes for his
unacceptable behavior and the children in-
cluded him in their play. Bit by bit they
began to value him as a person; he then had
no reason to call attention to himself by hit-
ting. Recognition of the value of each child
is not only necessary for social and emotional
growth but it is necessary for learning. When
George was accepted in the group, his reading
problems began to diminish, too.

Daniel A. Prescott in the February issue,
entitled “Learning To Live,” gives us three
lines of evidence from scientiﬁc research that
show that preschool children must have love
to develop wholesome all-round personalities.
He says that the absence of love nearly always
builds up a disturbing number of frustrations.
Prescott makes ﬁve hypotheses as to probable
ﬁndings of research which have implications
not only for young children but all human
beings. These are:

1. Being loved can afford any human being a
much needed basic security.

2. Being loved makes it possible to learn to love
oneself and others.

.3. Being loved and loving others facilitate the
w1nn1ng of belonging in groups.

, 4- Being loved and loving in return facilitate
identiﬁcations with parents, relatives, teachers and
peers by which the culture is internalized more
readily and organizing attitudes and values are
established easily. 7

.5‘ Being 10V€d and loving facilitate adjustment to
Situations that involve strong unpleasant emotions.

This article is packed with ideas basic to
the growth and development of children and
indeed for all human beings.

CHILDHOOD EDUCATION

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Know Children,

The second point under this goal in de-
veloping the individual is: "(her belter we
know children, [he holler we can serve [hem
in bringing out l/u’ir individual capabilities.”

Winifred Bain asks. "Willi Lilo So Long.
Why Shorten Childhood?" (September). She
states that a threat to normal development is
today’s haste to get children into adult pat-
terns. Children havc to be children ﬁrst and
as they discover the need for information and
skills, they set about to get them. Concepts
come before symbols. Children need to live
savoring the wonders of life. gaining under-
standing, seeing relationships,follmving the
urge to initiate and create. These are the
prerequisites of reading with a purpose and
with understanding of vicarious experiences
recorded in symbols on the printed page.

The needs of childhoml are simple, really:
growth, nourishment for growing minds and
bodies; activity with its own purposes, real to
the child; struggle to attain purposes, even
anguish and disappointments while overcom-
Ing obstacles; play with its refreshment and
Its natural rewards in the discovery of ethical
values; quiet with time for rest and reflection.
with awe and wonder at the mysteries of
creation. Children need in childhood a normal
development program in readiness for the
Courage, judgment. integrity and dedication
sad to be essential to survival in mature life.
‘l‘n thls day and age they will be adults and
senlor Citizens” for a long time.

Another pressure which is applied at the
wrong end of the maturation stick is the
practlce of having kindergarten graduations.
We have taken a ﬁrm stand against SUCh a
practice by publishing the flyer, Kindergarten
Graduation, No.’.’.’——and Why Not? Its
statements by leading educators tell Why they
Oppose graduation in kindergarten. Children
must not be exploited to bring publicity and
proﬁt to private kindergartens. It not only
Lakes a toll on children but is costly. What
as been saved by not having elaborate
graduations can go into the purchase of a
P1606 of outdoor equipment.

MAY 1962

“Readiness Is Being,” writes Ethelouise
Carpenter (November). Nursery schools and
kmdergartens are provided for what a child
needs now and serve as a preparation for
ﬁrst grade only to the same degree that any
experience supports a later one. Readiness
cannot be taught and practiced through de-
vices and paper-pencil techniques. Readiness
for reading as for anything else is built on
experiences over a long period of time. A
child is not taught to conduct himself in a
particular way because “the ﬁrst-grade
teacher expects it.” He is in an environment
of exploration, not of heated preparation.

Too many administrators and teachers
think children cannot learn if they are mov-
ing about. They think they must be sitting,
producing on paper and quiet in order to
learn and to work. Often the “solution” is in
purchase of readiness materials for kinder-
garten. Children labor over marking the
largest tree in a row, yet they have no difﬁ-
culty ﬁnding the largest cookie on a plate.

Marian Jenkins and Frances Hine (Novem-
ber) write, “Creative teachers are coming to
accept the basic concept that development is
within the child, not in any one reading sys-
tem or series of books.”

One way to know children better is
through making studies of them such as
Milly Almy reports in the October issue of
CHILDHOOD EDUCATION. She describes a
study of meanings young children bring to
the explanation of certain phenomena. The
questions asked: HOW adequately does the
typical kindergarten-primary grade classroom
provide Opportunities for the teacher tO talk
and listen to each child? HOW many children
come tO a conclusion the teacher hopes they
will? HOW Often is the “good thinking”
(thinking that satisﬁes the teacher) of three
or four verbal children taken to represent the
thinking of the group? The children were
good listeners if spoken to individually but
not so in a large group. Words come readily
to young children, but they are not always

certain Of meaning.

The bulletin, An Educator Substitutes for
Parents, describes how three children react
under Agnes Snyder’s care when their parents
are away. Their acceptance of her shows

453

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

their parents have laid a good foundation in
rearing them. She analyzes their behavior
and her own way of dealing with them.

Individualized Instruction

If we deem individual development im-
portant, instruction must be individualized to
meet the child’s needs and interests, 3 third
point in the goal.

In the November issue Ira J. Gordon and
Christine H. Clark report that an individual-
ized reading program in a small school with
few materials can increase and improve skills
in reading. Success of the experimental group
showed up when the children were tested: In
less than four months, the control group
gained an average of 3.04 months while the
experimental group gained 7.32 months. Not
only did the experimental group achieve
better on a standardized test but they read
more and increased in self-conﬁdence.

Further thoughts on individualizing in-
struction come from the November issue. R.
Van Allen states that we should be alerted to
the need to look at reading as a means of
arousing meaningful responses on the basis of
individual experiences of the learner. Each
child gradually gains a personally tailored
sight vocabulary which is functional and
which is in excess of words introduced in the
controlled programs. Control becomes an
individual matter.

There is a closer relationship between
phonics and spelling than between phonics and
reading. The natural desire of young chil-
dren to create stories provides a powerful
motivation to acquire skill in selecting the
correct symbols to represent the sounds of
oral language.

Pupil authorship is developed as teachers
take their clues from children and record
their thoughts or encourage the children to
record their own. Many materials for read-
ing are developed by the children.

A Positive Self-Picture

,A fourth point which is an aid in develop-
ing individual capabilities that teachers and
parents should consider is: the child’s self-
image aﬂects his achievement; he must think
well of himself. H. Gerthon Morgan in
“Building Self-Esteem at Home and School”
(February) states that it is possible to build
strong, positive, developing selves. It is

454

equally possible to operate in such a way as
to destroy a goodly portion of human poten-
tial. This depends upon how children view
themselves.

Katherine H. Roe in “Your Child’s Self-
Picture” (March) says a child’s self-image
determines not only his behavior but his
mental health, future success and happiness.
These objectives are necessary:

° Help him develop a pleasing personality so
that others will like him.

' Encourage and help him achieve the goals that
he feels are important.

° Build up his self-esteem and personal status so
that he does not have to envy others.

° Teach him self-control so that he does not do
things which make him feel guilty.

Closely related to the subject of self-esteem
in children is the thought of respecting our-
selves and other grownups. Howard Thurman
states in the February issue on “Art of Liv-
ing” that “it is possible to respect the
personality of another person if you accept
him where he is and treat him there as if he
were where he ought to be. To have your own
personality respected is to have someone meet
you where you are, as you are, and to deal
with you there as if you were where you ought
to be. This is to have a crown placed over
your head that you are always trying to grow
tall enough to wear.”

Making Wise Choices

Education must provide many opportunities
for children to make wise choices. A ﬁfth
point in this goal, this statement in relation to
development of individual capabilities brings
us to Lucile Lindberg’s article, “Learning
Through Searching” (October). This does
not mean that children must be left on their
own with the hope that they will stumble upon
skills and ideas but rather that the focus must
be placed on helping them develop sound
processes of exploration.

When a child has made a discovery the
learning involved becomes his own. It is his
forever. Even though he may forget it tem-
porarily it is still his, for he can again search
for it. What he has discovered he can see in
context and understand its relationship to
other learnings, sensing many shades of mean-
ing involved. Because he has developed a
learning he feels a sense of power over it; he
can control it instead of it controlling him and
so is spurred on to further learning.

CHILDHOOD EDUCATION

 




 

 

 

 

To develop sell-propelled power in chil-
dren, the classroom environment must have a
variety of materials and equipment so that
children can have practice in making choices.
Teachers can be guided in selecting up-to-date
materials and equipment, for every two years
the Association revises the bulletin, Equip-
ment and Supplies. There are sections for
nursery school through intermediate grades
from which purchasing agents with the help
of principals and teachers can make their
selection.

In the November issue, “Freeing Children
To Read,” Roma Cans states that reading is
for decision-making today. Today’s citizen
has to read widely on the pros and cons of a
situation, make a decision before he can be
an intelligent voter. Today’s citizen must not
only read widely but weigh different points
of View and make a choice of viewpoints.
This demands the application of ability to
think while reading on many entangled issues.
Wise choices begin early by being led to make
personal reactions to what is read such as. “I
believe it,” “I like this.” “I don’t like this."
A child even in primary grades helps select
reference books: collects pertinent articles
from books, papers and magazines; and stays
with one such study for several days and often
weeks. He discovers how much there is to
know on a topic, a discovery he might not
make if taught in the short lesson-by-the-dav
W.ay. If his appetite gets whetted to read on
dlnosaurs, space exploration and such he is

tooling himself for perpetuating his educa-
tlon.

Schools today are eager to teach children
If) become comprehending critical and selec-
tive readers. The “reading-to-give-back"
emphasis common in schools thirty or forty
years ago does exist some places but we have
to ask: Are practices and materials we recom-
mend consistent with our goals? If our goal
Is to provide many opportunities for children
'0 “take wise choices. then we must look at
readlng practices with this goal in mind.

The Association has published a Guide to
Children’s Magazines, Newspapers, Reference
Books which should help parents and teachers
In selecting reading materials. It suggests
EPCYClcpedias (sets and one volume), dic-
tionarles, anthologies, atlases and such WhiCh
are helpful for today’s fast-changing world.
:I‘OH} them children can make wise choices of
Ieadlng material which will increase their
f11nd of information as well as keep them up
on current happenings.

A BALANCED INSTRUCTIONAL PROGRAM

THROUGH THE ARTS AND SCIENCES

The other goal from Goals for Americans is
closely related to developing the individual.
To quote:

“Knowledge and innovation must be ad-
vanced on every front. In science we Shauld
allot a greater proportion of our total effort
to basic research, ﬁrst, to realize fully the
rapidly unfolding opportunities to extend
still further our understanding of the world,
and second, to enrich applied science and
technology so essential to the improvement of
health, to economic growth, and to military
power.

“We should recognize that our creative
activities in science and all other ﬁelds will be
more productive and meaningful if under-
taken, not merely to be ahead of some other
nation, but to be worthy of ourselves.”

To quote Helen Heﬂernan’s interpretation
for educators (September):

“The teachers of America have long been
committed to the balanced educational pro-
gram for children and youth which is so well
expressed in the ﬁfth goal. To this end

schools for young children must provide

. . science experiences which help learners
to understand their environment and to dis-
cover their potential in relation to it

. social studies experiences which help
learners understand mankind, his interrela-
tionships and the institutions he has developed
to make life better

. art experiences which help learners to
understand how man has expressed his
thoughts and feelings in graphic and industrial
arts, in music, in literature, in drama and in
the dance and to have suﬂlcient ﬁrsthand
experiences in all of the arts to make them
have personal meaning

. command of the fundamental skills of
learning which opens the doors to 'further
learning through reading, mathematics and
all the other skills of communication.”

/(7ontinued on next page)

 

 

 




 

The Association’s Plan of Action these past
few years has focused on a balanced program.
You have read no articles in CHILDHOOD
EDUCATION or other ACEI publications which
have emphasized one subject out of propor-
tion to another. We have not suddenly intro-
duced science into the curriculum, for ex-
ample. The Association has long recom-
mended science experiences for even as young
as nursery school age. It continues to recom-
mend them as evidenced by Ruth Roche’s
article, “Time for Science” (January). She
states: “Creating an environment for science
takes time. Time:

“for teachers to listen to children’s questions and
problems

for children to ﬁnd answers to their questions
for children to think their way through problems

for children to think their way to ideas.”

The schools must provide for children
social studies experiences which help learners
understand mankind, his relationships and the
institutions he has developed to make life
better. Two issues, December and January,
describe social studies experiences. Agnes
Snyder introduces a symposium on “Social
Studies for Survival” (December) by saying,
“As a great nation with two centuries of ex-
perience in attempting laboriously to work out
details of our democratic forms of living, we
are uniquely responsible for helping new
nations to realize their precious rights to life,
liberty and pursuit of happiness, those rights
to which our forbears pledged their lives and
their sacred honor. It is to the guarantee of
these rights to all peoples that we teachers
must daily pledge our lives and our sacred
honor . . We teachers must support the
United Nations, follow its deliberations, visit
it as much as possible, identify with it. Above
all, let us share our knowledge of it and our
enthusiasm for it with children.”

Chester Bowles’s article on the United
Nations; Vera Micheles Dean’s article on
emerging nations and Edward Warner Brice’s
article on studying Africa; Hazel Gabbard’s
article, “Build a Bridge to the East”—all give
parents and teachers background that helps
build for peace—some of which can be shared
with children. Descriptions of relationships,
nursery school through intermediate grades,
were in the December issue. One ﬁfth-grade

4-56

 

project of exchanging tape recordings of
information about their country’s history,
geography and govcn'nment as well as of
stories, poems and music with other parts of
the world was described in this issue.

The outstanding books about children
around the world listed in the March issue by
Esther McWhirter give children a look at
how those in other countries live.

Pauline Hilliard and l‘ldna Ambroseis
January article gives a setting for effective

classroom social learnings and discusses
skills relating to people.
Two bulletins, Creative Urama/ics and

Literature wilh Children, are this year’s con-
tributions to help teachers fulﬁll that part of
the goal pertaining to art experiences.

The January issue, “I‘vaironment for
Skills,’7 treats among other skills reading,
mathematics and communication, the last part
of this goal. Wanda Robertson states that too
many schools teach skills in the narrow sense,
many others succeed in relation to problems
which children need to solve. Careful con-
sideration is given to the environment which
facilitates this kind of learning. Such en-
vironments never happen by chance. They
are the result of careful planning by children
and teachers.

This year’s issues of CHILDHOOD EDUCA-
TION and other ACEI publications have fol-
lowed through in clarifying the fact that what
are goals for education are also goals for
Americans. I have only attempted to expand
on two closely related goals; namely, the
development of an individual’s capabilities
and offering the arts and sciences in a bal-
anced program. The Association has con-
sidered these as having priority in the “soar-
ing sixties.” It is deeply satisfying in making
this review to note that ACEI has hewed so
closely to the line of interpreting What it
means to live in a free society and what the
role of the teacher is in making democratic
values come alive for children.

Happy vacation days!

WW

CHILDHOOD EDUCATION

 

 




 

 

 

 

J15.

Iannette Spitzer

Newest Bulletins and Leaﬂets

for Your Summer Reading

Equipment and Supplies

Revision. Lists of materials for nursery, kindergarten, primary,
intermediate; classiﬁed lists of tested and approved products, age

levels, manufacturers; index. 115 pages. $1.50.

Creative Dramatics

Values; beliefs; many examples of how and what to use with daily
classroom work; recreational therapy in rehabilitation center for gifted
and retarded children; how teachers help each other; illustrations and

references. 48 pages. 75¢.

Literature with Children

Providing and enjoying great stories, classics, choral reading, story-
telling, poetry; creative experiences; audio-visual materials; balanced
contacts with literature; records and independent reading; stories and
curriculum; librarian’s role; coping with comics. References. 56
pages. 75¢.

(continued on back cover)

 




continued—

Newest Bulletins
and Leaﬂets for

Your Summer Reading

Kindergarten Graduation?

No!!! And Why Not?

One-page sheet gives information for kindergartens which persist in
exploiting children by such a ridiculous practice as graduation exercises.
Outstanding leaders in education tell why they disapprove. One free
(enclose 41¢ postage) ; packet of 50, 50¢.

Guide to Children’s Magazines,

Newspapers, Reference Books

Annotated list of children’s magazines; newspapers; reference books—

encyclopedias, anthologies, one-volume special references. Helpful for
parents and teachers. 8 pages. One free (enclose 44‘ postage) ; 25 for 351.

An Educator

Substitutes for Parents

In diary form Agnes Snyder, professor of education emeritus,
describes and analyzes happenings during her stay with three children
while their parents are away. Discusses adaptation to change, initiative,
responsibilities, obedience, homework, property values; needs in today’s
homes. 56 pages. 75¢.

Order from:

ASSOCIATION FOR CHILDHOOD EDUCATION INTERNATIONAL
3615 Wisconsin Avenue, N. W., Suite 213
Washington 16, D. C.

 




‘ “19..

3

3
i
3

 




   
 
 
    
   
     
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
   
  
    

e; we: 1...

Proudly- Presents

 

FOR

DOGS 8: CATS

NDER VITAMIN AND MINERAL FORMULA
, EORTIFIED WITH LIPOTROPIC FACTORS AND VITAMIN E—
FORYOURCFAVO’RITE DOG AND CAT

Years of research wiTh Dogs and CaTs from Time of birTh
UnTil They yenTer Animal Heaven is responsible for The creation
of MY-O-iMY VITAMINS-The besT ViTamin and Mineral formula
ThaT scienTific knowledge, love of animals and human ingenu-
iTy could produce—There is no beTTer ViTamin for your Dog
Or CaT Than MY-O-MY VITAMINS.

  
 
 
 
 
    

REGULAR DAILY USAGE OF

MY-O-MY VITAMINS
WILL HELP CONTRIBUTE recommended by

’ TO YOUR DOG AND CAT

M Sound Bones and TeeTh-—- PET DIGEST

A Luxurious HealThy CoaT-—— 4s & Eﬁﬁ‘ﬂ

Nerve and Muscle CoordinaTion—— DVERTISED TH

Resis’rance AgainsT lnfecTions and Illness—

MainTaining Vigorous HealTh—

IF YOU LOVE YOUR PET

_ GIVE IT MY—O-MY VITAMINS
SOLD ATALL BETTER PET COUNTERS — IF YOUR STORE IS
SOLD OUT ORCAN’T SUPPLY YOU SEND ONLY $1.25 (33
TabIeTs) Reg. Size or $3.00 (100 Tablets) Economy Size To:

 

PET HEALTH Inc, Box 572
Ansonia STa. N. Y. 23, N. Y.

 

 




FALL 1961 VOL. 3, NO. 3

PET DIGEST

EXECUTIVE OFFICE: 240 West 75th Street, New York 23, N. Y.—TRafalgat 7-4006

A Quarterly Publication
Dedicated to Human-Animal Relationship

PET DIGEST: $4.00 per year —- $7.00 for 2 years — $10.00 for 3 years.

Foreign countries, $1.50 extra each year; Canada $1.00 extra each year.

© 1961 by Penthouse Publishers Inc. Permission to use must he solicited
and given in writing.

 

Staff—Editors: Dean White and Hedy White; Associate Editors: Ethel Brower, Carl
E. Smith, Raymond Thompson, Janet Mack, Dr. Richard H. Hoffmann, Claudia
de Lyse, Richard H. Roffman, David Nadler; Advertising Director: Casey White;
Circulation Manager; H. Keller; Photo Editors: Alice Wernherr, Linda Palmer;
Editorial Consultant: Gordon Knox Bell, Jr.; Classified Advertising Director:

 

 

i
l
l
i
‘i

 

 

B. Mamet
Our Hats Off To: ................................ The Editors 4
“The Pure-Bred” Editor’s Mail-Bag .................. Janet Mach 6
Penelope, I Love You ........................ Jan Bryant Bartell 11
The Lambs Incorporated .. .._Ethel King 13
Amazing Visitor .................... Marguerite Ballard Watson 24
Gateway to the Air Force . . ; ............................ H. Keller 28
For All Bird Lovers ........................... Alyse E. Murry 31
New Institution Hailed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Dean White 36
Captivating Kittens ............. A .................. Meg Merrill 40
Cinderella Dachshund Sails On U. 8. France ‘. ........ Franh Long 45
Lover of Cats ........................ Dr. Richard H. H oﬂmann 44
Why the Ostrich Hides His Head . . . _ ................. Susan Stacy 51
Committee For Pets ............................... Hedy White 57
Why Should A Child Have A Pet? ......... . ...... ] ohn Grahame 60
Anti-Cruelty Program Expanded .................. Janice Paprin 62
From Our Grief . . Lillian Palmer 64
Do Look A Gift HOrse In the Mouth . . . . Marjorie‘Farnham Schrody 66
Children and Pets One Boy’s Viewpoint . . As Told to Gretchin White 68
Pleased Meows May Lead To New Cat Food Treats . . Thomas Reading 70
Panther Black and Tiger Red .................... Frances Marion 72
Movies Worth Seeing .............. . . . . David Nadler 80
First Aid—Salamanders .......... As Told to Helen Kitchen Branson

by Mara Moser 83
Book Reviews. Ethel Brower 84
Justice to Animals . .. ......................... Christahel Wilson 86

ially phOtographed for PET DIGEST.

OUR COVER —— by Linda Palmer, noted photo-journalist
and humanitarian. Rarely has a picture shown the warmth,
understanding and sheer pleasure between a child and an
animal as has been captured by this wonderful shot espec-

 




  
    
   
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
    
 
 
 
 
    

   
 

‘. . .‘ 135$».

4-: £5,355.1-
1“: l" ’ '\

3..
! Iv.
{‘6‘"

.

 

-. . --‘-' 'i'k") . A
I ~o-_~' F, 'r"...\., ‘..
5' 5 '1); ”’p ‘.h:"‘ q\"_')' ‘, .A'

I .~'--.\-’-. _"' ‘v

«H‘. .. a

-....\r~0$. ..J‘ ..-...

‘ .. ‘."‘\I. "I . ~. ‘.«v.,' ' -'.. .'~.
a":- ‘i " ' L)? «..‘---~.€‘--x:-~-V “'2':-
1’1. .g-‘v ’ {gs-1.3.3.1, 53'"- \'

. 3;) "1‘1: kn .1- v
'th

 
 

'5'

made in grammer, spell-

There are several mistakes purposely
and advertisements

ing and punctuation in several articles,
in this issue. .

Your amateur word detectives or proof read
and .win a prize.

You will receive a vial of 100 MY-O-MY VITAMINS“-'tlle
wonder Vitamin for your Dog and Cat. A product of Pet Health,

Inc.

ers—-ﬁnd them

All Answers Must Be Sent To
Contest Editor

PET DIGEST
240 West 75th Street, New York 23, N. Y.
Contest Closes November 15, 1962

f Neatness, accuracy and promptness are the only governing
actors. .

  

REP... . . ‘, ' .
w”? (”I '
Janie J11 :

 

P.S.: There are several mistakes write in this notice. Can you
ﬁnd them, as,wel as the many others in the classiﬁed
ads, the artlcles etc.

One prlze to a winner. Strictly limited to subscribers of:

PET DIGEST




 

.........

FOR 509000 NEW SUBSCRIBERS To)" f

(The Quarterly Dedicated T o H uman-Animal Relationship)
YOU WILL RECEIVE ABSOLUTELY FREE A SANITARY UN-
BREAKABLE VIAL OF 100 MY-O-MY VITAMINS. THE COM-
PLETE VITAMIN AND MINERAL FORMULA FORTIFI'ED WITH
LIPOTROPIC FACTORS AND VITAMIN E—FOR YOUR
FAVORITE DOG OR CAT
MY-O-MY VITAMINS is a product of PET HEALTH, lhc.
There is NO be’r’rer Vitamin for your Pe’r.
YOUR PET WILL BLESS YOU WHEN YOU GIVE IT
MY-O-MY. VITAMINS
~ To Receive Your Free Gift
Mail this Subscription With Remittance T0:
PET DIGEST

2 Subscription and \- 240’W65* 75th Street
' ‘ New York 23, N. Y.

THIS GIFT OFFER

Free Gift FormJ
\ ‘ ' /\‘ IS FOR A LIMITED TIME

 

 

_ one year $ 4.00 Plus Free Gift of 100 MY—O—MY VITAMINS
__ two years 315 7.00 Plus Free Gift of 100 MY—O'-MY VITAMINS
__ three years $10.00 Plus Free Gift of 100 MY—O-MY VITAMINS
NAME ........................... , ................

ADDRESS ................... ' ..............................................................................
CITY .................................................... :.§ ....... ZONE .. STATE ............

 

 

MY-O-MY VITAMINS Is Unqualifiedly Endorsed

 

 
   

PET DIGEST

 




 

 

 

GRETCHEN, a Weimaraner, for
defending her master from wild ani-
mals in a seven day desert ordeal.
She was rightfully awarded The

American Humane Association’s
William O, Stillman Bronze Medal
and the Golden Nylabone Award for
bravery and courage.

3* =X< i‘ 3* 3*

Western Kennel World’s Manches-
ter Terrier columnist, the youthful
WeSt Coast lawyer, PETER RANK.

3* >X‘ * 3* 3*

JOHN M. ZUCKER, Branch Di-
recror of the National Anti-Vivisec-
tion Society for his good work in
the Washington Branch of the
N AVS.

is =X= 3" 3* ’N‘

JACK BAIRD, KURT UNKEL-
BACH, BILL CARR, and Others who
exercise the freedom of the Press and
pull no punches in publishing fac-
tual information for all to read.
Continue to hit the nail on the head,

boys—let the sparks ﬂy where they
may.
=X= =N= 3* =X‘ 3*

MR. and MRS. GORDON KNOX
BELL, ]R., true humanitarians whose
devotion and kindness to both hu-
mans and animals is outstanding.

MRS. BELL is vice president of

the Institute For Human-Animal Re-
lationship, Inc.
I" # III * III

ALAN D. HAAS, one of Amer-
ica’s leading photojournalists, a
Village resident. Life, Look, Saturday
Evening Post, Coronet, Pageant,
American Weekly, Parade, This
Week, Today’s Living, King Fea-
tures, are just a few of the assign-
ments handled by ALAN HAAS.
The Bouvier Des Flandres, Ch. Erlo
de la Thudinie, was the artistic handi-
camera work of this artist-writer-
phOtographer.

* ﬂ! 1‘ 1‘ it

COMMITTEE FOR PETS IN
METROPOLITAN HOUSING for
their courage in endeavoring to com-
bat juvenile delinquency by having
pets for the young admitted in Pub-
lic Housing projecrs ‘where they are
now arbitrarily forbidden. Dr. Jack

Lebish nored veterinarian is Chair-
man.

!!! it =I= it it

SAM BLAKE, the famous pub-
licist, who is always doing something
for somebody.

is it i‘ 1|: 1|!

ETTA SALTZMAN, a devoted
humanitarian, who never says “no”
to animal or human in need.

1* 1‘ * * it

 

 

 




 

 

 

MR. and MRS. MALCOLM RIP-
LEY, who quietly support every
worthwhile humane movement.

=X= * =K= * 3K:

C. C. FAWCETT, noted humani-
tarian of the Ralston Purina Co., for
his continuous work in bettering the
reputation of the whole pet industry.
An uncompromising philanthropist,
he has won the hearts and respect of
a“ =l= =X< 3* IK‘ *

MANCHESTER TERRIER CLUB
of California MANCHESTER TER-
RIER NEWS, DON BURNET who
is doing a terriﬁc job for this breed.

=X= =3 3% ll: i‘

ALICE WAGNER and GEORGE
H. HARTMAN, recent recipients of
“Dogdoms Man and Woman of the
Year.”

1* 1* 1* IK‘ =X‘

MRS. JEAN KAY who with her
husband FRED KAY own and oper-
ate the de-luxe Crossroads Tavern at
Valley Forge Estate. Their animal-
humanitarian work is well known.

II: i= 1!: 3‘ =I=

WILLI H. EBELING, who helped
pioneer the use of seeing-eye dogs for
the blind. we humble bow our heads
in remembrance of this wonderful
man. EBELING, a trustee and for-
mer executive vice-president of the
Seeing Eye Inc.

’1‘ 3* i‘ 3K: 3"

HOWARD B. RAMSEY with
gratitude for the deserving tribute
paid in a widely circulated dog pub-

lication, to our pure-bred editor.
*3 =l‘ 3" ’I‘ #

 

4“..-

 

 

MRS. ELEANOR H. RICHARDS,

a charming friend of animals.
=X= i‘ * =K= ’X‘

HERMIONE GINGOLD, whose
great acting ability, and vivacious-
nvess has made her a Must at all hu-
mane affairs. Her devotion to the

animal kingdom is her avocation.
=X= =l= =X= =X= *

CLAUDIA de LYS, famous author,
never spares her time nor energy
when a four-legged friend requires

her assistance.
=X= =X= * =N= =l‘

LILLIAN TIFFANY, a gentle-
woman, who bespeaks all that is

noble and good in nature.
=l= =K< =X< 3* I"

L. G. GARDNER, Pres. Pioneer
Pet Supply Co., whose inspiring and
splendid work with “The Lambs”
has brought the blessings from every
retarded person to this noble gentle-
man. The Lambs is a new kind of
pet and gift shop organization that
employs people with problems to
help themselves.

3* * 3k 3* =I=

A SPECIAL PRAYER for every-

thing that ﬂies, walks, crawls or
swims.

 




 

 

 

 

    

Pet Digest has much in store for
all dog lovers seeking to know more
about pure-bred dogs. Succeeding
issues will carry articles on the rare
and lesser seen and known about
breeds, these by authorities possess-
ing experience as well as knowledge.
In this issue ydu will ﬁnd articles
on The Vizsla and The Schipperke
respectively, that are informative
and interesting, along with illustra-
tions. The Miniature Schnauzer, and
the Samoyede will be presented in
Pet Diget’s next issue. Before long,
you’ll be reading about the Shih-
Tzu, of” which in U. S. there are
less than 100 ,. typical specimens.
Your inquiries in all categories are
invited and you may be sure of a
prompt reply with as much informa-
tion as can be given.

Every Tuesday at Norwalk Hos-
pital, there is Animal Day for the
children. The Mid-Fairﬁeld Youth
Museum of Westport, Connecticut,
is in charge of the animals that are
brought to the Hospital to be seen
by convalescing children and others.
Local schools also use this Animal
Service as an educational and
humanitarian medium.

One of the most interesting letters
recently received inquired if I knew
any important people and their
dogs—V I P’s: My ﬁle designated

6

PET DIGEST

"THE PURE-BRED"
EDITOR’S MAIL-BAG

 
   
    
  
  

BY JANET MA

“Distinguished Correspondents” in-
cludes radio-grams, telegrams, letters,
some even in the writer’s hand-
writing, from H.R.H. Queen Eliz-
abeth II; the late Lady Mendel;
The Duke and Duchess of Windsor;
Mary Boland; Peggie Wood; Cyril
Ritchard; Ed and Pegeen Fitzgerald;
and many other celebrities. The
great ﬁghting ﬂyer and plane de-
signer, one of the world’s experts
on air warfare, a lecturer at Air
Force War College, Major Alexander
de Seversky, whose book “America
——Too Young To Die;” — I met
this great man through the late
Commander Swanton—he brought
his Welsh Terrier, later a Poodle,
for grooming, arriving around 8:00
AM. in the morning, on the tick
of the clock, on a set schedule, for
many years. The understanding, af-
fection, simplicity of the truly great,
makes it a real joy to know them
and their pets.

 

The Schipperke
“Little Black Devil of Belgium”
BY DORIS GILES

The Schipperke originated in the
Flemish provinces of Belgium, and
is considered to have been developed
from their native black sheep dog.
He was the particular pet of the

 




 

“THE PURE-BRED” EDITOR’S MAIL-BAG

shoemakers who vied with one an-
other in making handsome brass
collars for their Schipperkes. So

:much were these collars a part of

the breed that the ﬁrst Specialty of
the Belgian Schipperke Club had a
class for the Collars.

In appearance the Schipperke is
a thick set, lively little black dog,
with plenty of coat, outstanding ruff
and culotte, foxy head, expressive
face, minus the tail with which he
was born. He has a distinctive sil-
houette, not closely resembling any
other breed.

In personality, the Schipperke is
a stanch watch dog, suspicious of all
who are n0t members of his family,
but readily accepting them after
proper introduction. His curiosity is
insatiable; he quickly informs himself
of the ways of his household, an-
nounces the discovery of anything
unusual by a sharp bark. No stranger
will enter your home unchallenged
while a Schipperke is in charge.

C®>
©©©©©©

 

 

 

Although small, he has the
mentality of the shepherd breeds
of which he was anciently a part,
the same devotion to his master
for which they were noted. In spite
of his small stature he is “all dog”
with no idea of the limitations of
size when danger threatens his
family, home, or person. He is a
good ratter, very fond of horses,
and though he loves the country is
equally at home in the city.

 

.........

    

KELSO»

The Vizsla

BY CHARLES HUNT

The origin of the Vizsla is lost
in the dust of past centuries; how-
ever, there is little doubt the ances-
tors were the companion-hunting
dogs of the Magyar tribes who oc-
cupied the great Carpathian Basin
in the Ninth Century. "The Vienna
Chronicle, 1342, pictures a pointing
dog very similar to the Vizsla in the
chapter on falconry. Documents and
private letters of the 16th and 17th
Centuries frequently mention the
Vizsla and his bird ﬁnding abilities.

The favorite of the early war lords
and barons, the breed was improved
through the centuries as, by feudal
custom, only the nobility and landed
aristrocracy were permitted owner-
ship.

In the ﬁeld, the Vizsla was ex—
pected to point and retrieve upland
game birds, retrieve hares and water-
fowl, track the roebuck; work to
the gun. In the home, he was com-
panion, playmate, guardian. Through
selective breeding and constant as-
sociation with the family, the breed
developed unusual intelligence and
sensitivity while retaining the
natural pointing ability.

The. Vizsla breeds true. The
beaﬁ‘tiful, short red-gold coat; the
poise and agility; the affectionate

7

 




 

 

 

 

 

PET DIGEST

disposition; are today as described
four hundred years ago. Todays
Vizslas average 22 to 24 inches in
height and weigh 55 to 50 pounds——
ideal for the one dog sportsman in
size, temperament and hunting
~ ability.

The Vizsla was practically un-
known in the United States prior
to 1951 when the writer and other
sporting dog fanciers, attracted by
the hunting ability and excellent
temperament, began locating and
importing available pups.

The Vizsla Club was aCtivated
in 1954 by 17 members and accept-
ed by the American Field in No-
vember of that year. In November,
1960, the Vizsla became the 115th
breed recognized by the American
Kennel Club.

  

,5, ,
mart“; Kw (tag,

I;

DOGS, CATS AND EVEN GOLDFISH GIVEN
FUNERALS IN JAPAN.

In reviewing some old ﬁles, I
came across an interesting story of
the devorion of the Japanese for all
animals. Their laws against cruelty
to animals in unequalled world-wide.
Birth and death Statistics are re-
corded as carefully as are those of
human beings and it is required by
law that proper burial be given all
animals with suitably inscribed
markers. Just as we have our Me-

8

   

morial Day, when we go to the
cemeteries for human beings, in
Japan “Higan Season” is the day on
which services are held in memory
of departed pets of all kinds. Bud-
dhist priests offer prayers; ﬂowers
are strewn on the graves. Even gold-
ﬁsh are included in this ceremony.
It is recorded that a rich pearl mer-
chant, erected a monument to the
oysrers he killed to obtain their con-
cealed pearls. ‘Memorial services are
held by the Health Department of
Tokyo for the ﬂies, frogs and Other
animals sacriﬁced for scientiﬁc pur-
poses.

Buddist teaching demands love as
well as mercy for all animals. Show-
ing compassion toward the lower
animals, is one qualiﬁcation towards
human ascendency to heaven. One of
the most unique tributes to animals
was a Memorial service enacted by
the manufacturer of ﬂy, ﬂea and ant
killing products, in memory of the
lives taken by their producrs.

Many of us know the Story of
Hachiko, Japan’s hero dog whose
illness was front page headlines for
many weeks. His death was reported
with even greater prominence than
many high in political and social
ranks. This little dog, an Akita, was
bought in a pet shop by a college
professor—a pure-bred from time
immemorial known for its faithful-
ness and courage. On the death of
his Master, this dog continued to
try to ﬁnd him, gradually weakening

from nOt eating and pining for his
beloved Master. Jusr before he died,
his story of dev0tion to his Masrer
spread over the entire nation; dog
lovers raised a fund to erecr a statue
in one of the busiesr parts of Tokyo,
the Shibuya Railway Station com-

 




“THE PURE-BRED” EDITOR’S MAIL-BAG

pound. This statue is one of the
famous landmarks of the nation and
is visited by visitors from all parts
of the world. Since ancient times
Japan has revered all living creatures
and mm over a century ago, no
Japanese would eat meat from a
four-legged animal.

In this same regime, the Military
Dictator—a powerful warlord, was
particularly partial to dogs, he hav-
ing been born in the zodiacal year
of this animal. Government regula-
tions were issued compelling all
Japanese to use the preﬁx “honor-
able” before the word dog. Dis-
obeyance to this order brought on
severe punishment. “There goes an
honorable dog”; “Have you fed your
honorable dog” were common
methods of speech towards dogs.
Anyone beating or mistreating a
dog, was imprisoned and oftentimes
beheaded. A large and efficient secret
service made sure that the Dictator’s
commands were heeded.

 

EDITORS NOTE: We cam Mée 165.com
2'12 humility and éz'mlnem from 0m
Mpameye Mot/Jen and Jitters. Tbey
are bumanitmiam.

BEHAVIOR or NUISANCE
BY CLYDE F. THOMPSON

Will that lovable Christmas puppy
or your next puppy purchase become
an enjoyable, companionable pet or
an annoyance in your house and the
causative factor of frayed nerves and
killing stares from your neighbors?

Many people have the miscon-
ception if they make their dog re-
spond to a behavior pattern that
they will lose the love of the animal.
NOt so! A dog has a keen desire

 

to please and obey but must be
taught, and there is no better ap-
proach to attain this mutual under-
standing than through the medium
of obedience training.

Avail yourself of the training
facilities of an obedience training
club where you will be taught to
train your dog to respond to your
wishes, such as to walk at heel, to
come when called, to stay, and one
exercise particularly appreciated by
veterinarians, “To stand for exam-
ination”. All of the exercises taught
will have a praCtical application to
everyday living. You will find your
efforts well rewarded when you are
able to take your dog in the car
and the dog stays in a designated
area instead of jumping around
creating a dangerous hazard; to be
able to walk the dog without having
the leash wrapped around your legs;
and when the dog has been released
for a run and the play period is over
the dog returns to you on command.

While you are being taught to
train your dog to be a better com-
panion, you will be learning exer-
cises which pertain to competition
in Obedience Trials. If your dog
is purebred, you deﬁnitely should
plan to enter into the ﬁne sport of
showing in Obedience Trials, work-
ing for titles awarded by The
American Kennel Club.

Perhaps your purebred dog is of
the Toy Group. Do not let this be
a deterring factor for entry in trials

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

PET DIGEST

because you have heard the often
expressed opinion that a toy dog
is much harder to train than a large
dog. If we assume this is true, isn’t
it a real challenge to expend the
effort to train the small dog to a
degree of perfection which will pre-
clude a need for the excuse, “but
my dog is so little”. My personal
training and showing experience
with a Toy Manchester Terrier has
been most gratifying. She has
received the highest obedience title
awarded by The American Kennel
Club—Utility Dog, and also has her
Canadian Companion Dog obedience
title. In competition with the larger
breeds she has made an excellent
comparison showing and many times
outscored them.

Let’s get those purebred dogs in
obedience training and enter trials!
You have many exciting moments
ahead of you and a deserving sense
of pride when you earn your obed-
ience titles. And do remember, a
disobedient dog is no less unat-

tractive because it has champion
lineage.

 

TROPICAL FISHES
and AQUARIUMS

BY EARL SCHNEIDER
. Before you invest in a good aquar-
ium along with ﬁshes, it is wise to
talk to your friends who are ﬁsh
hobbyists and seek out well-inform-
ed dealers. Listen to many and draw
your own conclusions. Experience is
a valuable asset and I feel it is best
to start with a small aquarium and
some of the inexpensive ﬁshes, learn
as you make progress toward a
large and costly aquarium and along
With it the rare varieties of ﬁshes.
Each owner has his own individual

10

problems; it‘s up to you to learn
what yours are, and solve them,
with or without the aid of an expert.
And by all means make sure you
entrust yourself to a reliable dealer
possessing experience as well as
much knowledge. There is no deco-
ration more beautiful in any home
than a well-chosen tank with jtlSt
enough, (not overcrowded) ﬁshes
of variety that get along together.
Give overmuch consideration to the
purchase of a proper tank and one
of right size and excellent make;
it is THE foundation on which any
ﬁsh hobbyist builds from the very
beginning. There are many sizes at
many different prices, just as there
are more than 100 types of aquar-
ium ﬁshes at different price ranges.

Let good taste dictate the way
you furnish your aquarium. As well
as adding beauty, plants, and rocks,
are utilitarian providing they are
carefully chosen. The scenic or
panoramic illusion is attractive; it
sort of puts the ﬁshes in their natural
environment of water. Aeration and.
ﬁltration, are of great importance
if healthy ﬁshes are to endure. This
is a study in itself and everyone
with a ﬁsh tank can continue to
learn little by little by talking to
Others and reading. "All About
Aquariums”—Earl Schneider. is a
“must” for every ﬁsh hobbyiSt. “The
Complete Guide to Tropical Fishes"
fSchneider and Dr. Leon Whitney,
IS the encyclopedic work covering
ﬁshes commonly maintained in
aquaria. “All Abour Breeding Tro-
pical Fishes”—Earl Schneider, covers
every problem in this category.

Write Mr. Schneider, care of PET

DIGEsT; he’ll gladly answer your
questions.

 

 

 




 

 

 

Penelope,

I Love You

BY JAN BRYANT BARTELL

She was Irish and full of Erin Go
Bragh!

Her hair was curly and after a
bath, it sprang into ringlets and
waves like the pelt of a broadtail
lamb. And in the back, she had a
perfectly-fashioned pair of pants,
snow-white and ﬂaring like cowboy
chaps. Sometimes, we called her
Penny-Pants. But only sometimes,
because she had so many other
names and she took delight in every
one of them . . . Munchkin, Tink-a-
ninny, Frumagy-pumpkin, Goof-Ball
( she was blithely neuroticl), Pene-
lopee-pee—the latter being her of-
ﬁcial carte de Visite. But most of
all, she loved to be called Dar-l-i-n-g
and as I drew the syllables out en-

dearingly, her small head would sink ,

lower and lower into the cradle of
my hands and her lashes, long and
luxuriant, as beﬁtted a colleen, would
swoop closed in an exquisite eCStasy
of loving and being loved.

Like the name of the rebellion
that rent the land of her ancestors,
her coloring was mosrly Black and
Tan. But her head and face were

 

honey blonde and right up to the
very end, there were any number
of dashing young pups who gave
her a second sniﬂc as she went by.
And speaking of rebellions, she
knew all about the-m, being a born
rebel, herself. Sure now and they
could have used her, the Sinn Fein—
Herself, with legs planted four-
square and brown eyes sparkling
with deﬁance. She could have stood
up to a whole regiment of Tommy
Atkins and if, after her victory, there
had been ﬁght left still in any of
them—-—Begorrah!—she would have
charmed them to death! And ah-h-h-,
what a lot of foine lads could then
have gone home to Glocc-a-morra,
Kilkenny and Kildare . . .

She was a Sean O’Casey kind of
character: gentle and tender and
ﬁerce; full 0’ spit one moment and
brimming with blarney the next,
raging at discipline, but tyrannizing
me with moist, soft-tongued bland-
ishments. She seemed to have pos-
sessed a written agreement with me
(I never saw it, but it was in secret
Celtic, no doubt) that half of every

11

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PET DIGEST

bite I took belonged to her, plus
all the yummies and cookies she

could cadge on the side. PLUS—
My pillows, My blankets, My bed
and MY HUSBAND! The first

homecoming greeting belonged to
HER; after that, it was the back 0
me paw to ye! .

Though the Hibernian tongue 18
laid over with pure silver, only the
Greeks had a word for such devo-
tion as she poured out lavishly, all
of her brief life, so that the name
of Penelope seemed so right, even
with her bein’ from a long line
of Mavourneens and all. There was
something else Greek about her.
Tragedy. The unrelenting scourge
of one illness after another: can-
kerous ears, virus infctions, furious
exzemas, uterine tumors requiring
surgery, epilepsy, cataraCts creep-
ing like evil vapours over her bright,
worshipful eyes, deafness roaring in
her sensitive ears. But somehow,
someway, for fourteen years and two
months less a day, I kept her dear
heart beating and like her, I stood
foursquare in front of Death and
said: “Thou shalt nor pass.”

But on the sixteenth of March,
one day before the “Wearin’ of the
Green”, her tired heart cried out

that it could go on no longer. And
so, we, my husband and I and the
wonderful Veterinarian who had
stood phalanx-fashion, shoulder to
shoulder with us, yielded her to the
Dark Angel (and who’s to say he
hadn’t waited so long because she’d
charmed him, too!)

Now she sleeps, this small, valiant
Irish Wire-Haired Terrier, in an
animal cemetery, her favorite bone
and blanket beside her———her em-
battled heart at rest.

But, we who had hearts, have now
only holes ﬁlled with tears.

Someday, if the Luck 0’ The Irish
rubs off on those not born to The
Shamrock, we may be able to go to
Ireland, my husband and I. And
after we‘ve seen Killarney’s lakes
and fells and the mists rising above
the peat bogs and kissed the stone
said to be responsible for all the
g-r-r-r-a-n-d Gaelic blather, we shall
go somewhere quiet in The Isle
where the emerald is deepesr and
say: "Thank you, liireann for being

the home from which all small,
lovable leprechauns come.”
And in our hearts, what has

mended of them. I know that both
of us will add: Penelope, I love you.

 

WWW'MWWW

T0 PETIE — A WIRE-HAIR ’l'liR/CIOR
BY PAMELA HARNETT

Petie is a wire-hair

Quick on the trigger

He’s lot of fun to play with
‘Cause he’s chockful of vigor.

Petie has a tail
Just a short, white flag,
He gets everwmg he wants
By process-."o'f a wag.
W“
12

I was born a little girl

An advantage. quite
Mamma says by speaking
I can set all things aright.
But I talk and talk and talk
But most times I fail

Gee. I wish that I was Petie
And had a short, white tail!

 

 




 

    
  

 

Lib:

“Woe” they had ﬁniibed bred/é-
fort, Jews mid to Simon Peter,
‘Simon, 5072 of Jolm, do you love
me more #2472 tbere?’ He mid to
him, ‘Yer, Lord; you know I love
you.’ He mid to bim, ‘Feed my
lambr.’ ”

From this Biblical injunction
spoken by Jesus to one of His dis-
ciples came the name for an un-.
usual Chicago enterprise. The goal
of the business is not to “Feed my
lambs.” Its aim is to make the
lambs capable of feeding them-
selves.

The Lambs Pet Shop, 913 N.
State, dealing in pets, pet supplies
and ceramic articles, is operate-d by
17 trainable mentally handicapped
young adults ranging in age from
18 to 32. They work under the

The Lambs

Incorporated

BY ETHEL KING

 

12° I“ . ., "
s@*¥

1" Jinn“, n n,

supervision of Robert Terese and
Mrs. Corinne Owen. In getting the
projecr started Mr. Terese turned
logically to the pet industry. He ﬁrst
contacted Mr. Clifford Gardner,
President of Pioneer Pet Supply
Company in Chicago. In Mr. Gard-
ner he found an interested and will-
ing listener. Working with Sid and
Bill Meyers, operators of the Chicago
Bird and Cage Company, Mr. Gard-
ner elicited help from the pet supply
manufacturers in putting together
the initial inventory for the store,
and from many facets of the pet
industry. Mr. Gardner unstintingly
gave of his valuable time to help
make this unusual and needed pro-
ject a success. The industry re-
sponded.
What is a

 

“trainable mentally

13

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PET DIGEST

handicapped” person? According to
Terese, he is “a person who can-
not be educated in the usual sense
of learning through our school sys-
tem, but one who can be trained in
self-care and can perform simple
tasks under supervision.”

“We felt that these people had
so much to give and no opportunity
to do so,” says Terese. “We noticed
a tremendous change —— not only
in our people but also in their
parents. The big change has come
because these young adults, who
used to sit at home most of the
time and do nothing, now have a
purpose in life.”

In addition to operating the pet
store, the employees of The Lambs
are engaged in other meaningful and
rewarding jobs. When Mrs. Arlene
Kane, of the Great Central Ceramic
League, headquartered in Chicago,
heard about the project, she volun-
teered money, time and effort of
her organization to set up a ceramics
operation in the back of the Store
to train handicapped young adults
in the art.

“Thus, slow learners who are
gainfully and privately employed
will permit our state institutions to
better serve those mentally handi-
capped who are incapable of ever
helping themselves. This gives to all
of us a real sense of what it means
to truly be ‘Our Brother’s Keeper’."

 

EDITOR’S NOTE: PET DIGEST of-
fers a special salnte to all tlsese
wonderful people wlso are doing
such a grand job for t/se mentally
retarded. Tlrris is anot/ser organiza-
tion float deserves your support. T/JC’
pet industry can well be prond of
sad] men as Clifford Gardner and

14

Sid and Bill Meyers. Contributions
should lie sent to Tloe Lambs 1n—
corporated, 913 State St, Chicago
Illinois. Onr lyearf‘iest congratulationf
to Mr. Robert Terese and Mrs.
Corinne Oll’wl u'lro helped make tloe
Lam/7s possible.

 

“FARMIZR SMITH, MY OWNER
GOT THRlili MONTHS FOR
STEALING A PK}.u said a friendly
cow.
“NO KIDDING," said a nearby
horse. HOW Dll) THEY PIN
THAT ON HIM."
"THE PIG SQUIZAIED,” said the
cow smiling.
2*. 9“ it IKE 1*

Being a pure breed Toy Poodle,
I feel qualified to talk about being
spoiled. They call us dumb. Boy,
my owner goes to the beauty parlor
for a permanent only if there’s
money left over after by appoint-
ment. And they say it's a dogs life.

i 5- x! it it

A Pekinese was talking casually

to the other Pekinese pure breed.

“YOU KNOW’." said the first,
"ALI. PEOPLE LOOK ALIKE.”
at * ‘V‘ * at

Me and my other two German
Shepherds were walking in the park
the other day when we saw a neigh-
borhood gang of hoodlums molesting
a little girl. A few well placed barks
and the group quickly dispersed.
\What I catft understand iS why
doesnt someone let us accompany
policemen on their beats. One 0
us can do the work of ten of them—-
if I must say so myself. Which one
would you rather have next to you
in a time of crisis?

 

 




 

 

 

 

      
  

\ HOT SEAT

FOR

COOL CATS

( for dogs and
birds, too!)

Cold weather is coming! Here’s the finest gift you can give your pet—comfort
and good health with the revolutionary new Petcosy Automatic Electric Warm-
ing Pillow!

The Petcosy is your pet’s own warm bed—trains him to a specific sleeping place,
keeps him off furniture. It is scientifically designed—the double thermostatic
safety controls holds a constant low-level warmth to veterinarian’s specification——
it never gets too hot!

The Petcosy is safe—approved by Underwriters’ Laboratories. It features a
piddle-proof permanent rubberized cover and removable washable flannel cover,
specially-coated extra-tough inner protective cushioning, a patented construction
that insures even heat distribution, and a special heavy cord set. The Petcosy
costs only pennies a month to operate—less than a SO-watt bulb!

Fill out the coupon below and send to us—we’ll rush your Petcosy postpaid. If
there is more than one pet in your household, better get a Petcosy for each or
there’ll be a fight—the animals love it!

P.S.: It’s wonderful for birds as well—fits right under the bottom tray of the cage.

 

 

 

 

 

Please send me the following, postpaid:

DPETCOSY MODEL A'5 NAME ............................
10" x 10"
for cats and small dogs ADDRESS ........................................................

@ $4.95 each

DPETCOSY MODEL 3-7
12” x 17”

for larger dogs
@ $7.95 each

CITY & STATE ..............................................

..........................................

SEND ORDER TO:

RICHARDS, JONS & LAWRENCE, INC.

CHECK (MONEY ORDER) ENCLOSED 614 West 49th Street
New York 19, N. Y.

 

 

 

15

 




me GREENWICH VllLAGE
HUMANE LEAGUEJNC.

  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

HUMANITARIANS

THANKS TO YOU, A DREAM HAS COME TRUE
OUR NEW HOME DEDICATED AND DEVOTED TO THE
WELFARE OF CATS IS COMPLETED

0% PLEASE HELP US MAINTAIN IT

PLEASE HELP US RAISE $250,000
FOR A MODEL INSTITUTION

Please send your checks to

THE GREENWICH VILLAGE HUMANE LEAGUE, INC.
51 Eighth Avenue, New York 14, N. Y.

I; I ‘ Our membersbip extends from Maine to California. All donations are Tax Deductible.
:‘I This advertisement is donated by friends of the Greenwich Village Humane League, Inc.
in appreciation of their humanitarian work.

 

      

recommended by
PET DIGEST

.9 ‘ﬂ
4DVERTISED THERE

 

EL RETIRO KENNELS
(ANNA MARIE PATERNO, OWNER)
FOR SALE. ONE PAIR OF THE MOST BEAL’TIFI’L SALUKIS.

THE DOGS OF THE SUMARIAN KINGS AND TIIIC EGYPTIAN
PHAROAS — VERY RARE. PRICED AT ONLY $750.00 (About

two year old.)

 

EL RETIRO KENNELS
West Hartford, Vermont

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

ARE WE NEXT, MR. VIVISECTOR?

."We aren't human, of course; we're just dogs, but we
do have feelings. We get hurt; sometimes_we're sick;
we get hungry and thirsty. We can stand those things!

But vivisection is too awful even for a dog. Spare

us. we beg you;

You've used us for hundreds of years. -Millions of us
have writhed in agony while you tested this and that.

 

We've been cut, baked, boiled, frozen, crushed and
gassed——but you haven't learned much about humans

from us.

You know we'd die for you.
called on, for that's how dogs are.
of you in return:
which no dog ever returns the same—~to bark again.
run again, to comfort some child.

Maybe we'll live when you're through with us.
hope not.
the worst is going on.
all too soon.

hurt or where.

We're dogs.

We always have, when
We ask so little
just to be spared the trip from

 

to

We
Maybe we'll even get an anesthetic while
But we'll be conscious again.
We can't tell you then how much we

We can only lie in our cages and

suffer, wondering in our puzzled way what we did to
deserve such pain,

Is vivisection really necessary? Can't you, the wise

and mighty men of science.
humanity without torturing us? Try
didn't ask to be born.
will die.
dhr fate.

find some way to help

. please! We
We can't say how or when we
Humans decide that. We aren't masters or
We're just dogs. Listen, won't you, to

 

our prayer:

If you, our god, can't give us a_heaven on earth,
which is home and a master to serve, then grant us
the very least the lowliest of us deserve: a quiCR
and painless death." '

 

No matter what you have been told
about vivisection, l'l‘ IS an agoniz-
ing ordeal for animals. Anesthetics
are net possible in certain kinds of
work, for authentic figures prove
subjects are put to sleep in only
5 of every 100 experiments.

Vivisection as an aid to medicine

and surgery is questioned by a large
numberol'physicians and surgeons,
some of whom are helping to pay
for this advertisement. There are
those who say it does more harm

than good.

If you believe medical stu-

MAIL THE NATIONAL ANtl-VIVISECTION SOCIETY I dents must use living animals
100 East Ohio Street Chi¢ngo H, Illinois 3"" Pracuce’ yo“ hPV.” be?" ""j“

TH'S I informed. Such v1v1seetlon has
GEINTLEM EN: Yes, I want tojoin in your ﬁght to end I been forbidden by law in England

use ess animal cruelty' My donation of 8 ............ since 1876 yet who would ques-

COUPON isM-nclosed.‘ . l ‘ . . ' . ' I tion thesliillol'Britishsurgeons?
NOW! ( embershlp: Life, 850: bustalmng, 85; Active. 82). The cruelty of viwisection
Name ........................................... 8110““ he BIOPPed- [lJnnecessal‘y

sulfering has no p ace in our

PLEASE Street Address ........ - ............................ civilization. Just as an ti-cruelty
PRINT . societies ﬁght ordinary abuse of
City .................... Zone ...... State ........ H animals, we are battling labo-

PLEASE NOTE: This Society must spend about 61/2 cents to carry
its full message. to each additional prospective new member. This
money goes for printed literature, letters, pietures, envelopes, stationery,
stamps, etc. Even a $2.00 annual membersbi ) contribution ermits us
to.send our message to thirty interested eople—a $50.00 li e member-
ship lets us lace our story before near y eight" hundred persons—and
an amount In between (or moss) is allocated according to percentage.
ll m! better, more humanitarian cause than (his eon/d desene your sup-

port? (LIVE- -—(;l‘1f\' l‘lRl )l'Sl.Y ._'n )l)-\ Y!

ratory eruelties—-not the prog-
ress of medicine and science!

Do you want to help? Then
join this society today—now,
while you are thinking about it.
Your contribution will be used
to bring this same message to
others. Eventually, we will be
strong enough to end “the
greatest of all eruelties.”

17

 




 

 

Words are an un—
necessary appendage
to this prize-win-
ning amateur photo ‘
Which abounds in 3:
both humor and "
sympathy. T h e
photographer not
only caught a dis—
taught boy being
abused by his best
friend, but also the
humorous action of
the animal’s paw in
an apparent effort
to protect its ill-got-
ten dish of goodies.

 

 

Board of Directors, Guiding Eyes for the: Blind, Inc. These
1 dedicated humanitarians devote their time and talents to
1 Top row left to the interest of .the blind and their guide dogs.
1 right Cleveland 8.
. ‘White, Charles M.
Massey, Dr. Sidney
: Ross, Richard M.
; Babcock, Thomas C.
Schneider, Franklin
C. Wells.

Bottom row left
3 to right Bernard
3 Long, Hon. William
R. Bayes, Dr. Clin-
ton G. Weiman,
Malcolm P. Burdet-
te, James B. Ryan,
Robert H. Tapp.
Present but not in
picture Paul R. Jer- _ .. _
nigan, Adm. J. I. .. t-

Clark. Photo by Wollins Studio

18

 

   

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Alice H. Schmid, founder, Friends of. Harry Miller, Director of Gaines Dog
Animals, Inc. Through spaying, this or- Research Center, and noted humanitarian,
ganization prevents the birth of com- with a few of -his friends. '
panion animals doomed to suﬁ‘ering.

CH. AENNCHEN’S
LAKSMI DANCER
Sire: Am. Bda. Ch.
Aennchen’s Raja
Yoga. Dam: Ch.
Aennchen’s Puja
Dancer. Breeders-
Owners: Mr. 8:
Mrs. J. P. Antonelli,
137 Dora Ave.,
Waldwick, N.
OL 2-1067

 




PET DIGEST

 

 

 

 

right moment. This award-winning photo, snapped by an amateur, would have
been good even if all ﬁve kittens had been facing to the left. But it turned out

to be exceptional because of the momentary transgression of the "wrong-way"
kitten facing to the right.

 

 

Meg Merrill, noted author and humani- 1 A, "
tarian, shows the understanding required Alice Wernh '

.. ,, er, noted h t h r, 1th
to make the Margay a household pet. “Fiﬂ,” one of her pegso ograp e W
20

 

 

 




 

    

 

   

All of the essentials for first

aid in J>& 1’3 beautiful red and blue

box. Don’t be without one.
Better to have and not need,
Than to need and not have.
RUSH YOUR ORDER TODAY
B.E.R. SERVICE

11526 Burbank Blvd.

$1 .79—Plus 17¢ Handling

N. Hollywood, Cal.

 

  
  
 
 
 
 
  

 

 

Imperial Camera is a well-known, widely advertised,
reliable camera which has been used with great suc-
cess for premium purposes since it has appeal to

every man, woman and child.
Comes equipped with flash equipment
gift box.

black and white.
$4.40—Plus 60¢ Handling
Rush Your Order Today

B.E.R.
11526 Burbank Blvd.

SERVICE

     
 

 

 

AN EXOTIC PET
By
MEG MERRILL

 

 

 

A practical and informative
booklet about the needs, habits
and ways. of the MARGAY
as a pe-t. _ ~ '
SEND $1.00 to:

MEG MERRIIJ.
2 Horatio St.
New .York 14, N. Y.

in attractive
Takes 12 iumbo prints in either color or

 

North Hollywood, Calif.

 

seeking a book publisher

Two illustrated brochures reveal how we
can publish, promote and sell your book;
tips to writers; facts and ﬁgures on how
we published over 3000 authors”. 1
types of books wanted. Write Dept.

Exposition Press, 386 Park Ave. 5., N.Y. lb

 

Join our successful authors in a
complete and reliable publishing
program: publicity, advertising
handsome books. Speedy, efficien
service. Send for FREE manuscript
report & copy of Publish Your Book.
CARLTON PRES_SDept;Wg98
84‘ Fifth Ave., New York 11, N. Y.

“Don’t wk 30 many guano/m,
JZ/ﬁi07‘. Cmiosiz‘y killed the cat.”
66 ' é
Wlmt dzd tbe cat want 250 .,n0w
mot/oer?”

 

 
 
     
 




PET DIGEST

HHS

STAFF ARTIST. ..PAUL KDSH

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(f
The oply reaxon I volunteered 1'5 became I thought
it was made out of green cheeje.”

22

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

' ”Why can’t you drink milk like cats ”What’s the muse of performing, all you

are supposed to?” get is chicken feed for it!”

 

. I; {:1sz D HGU N E}

    
   

 

 

 

”I’m kind of worried about Junior, Grlxeldu,—
he can’t find his bone!”

23

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PET DIGEST

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Amazing Visitor

BY MARGUERITE BALLARD WATSON

Y NIECE had described a
M beautiful red bird, without

top-knot,” which had become
an almost daily visitor to her Ozarks
home. Her studies of ornithology
were limited, but she was of the
opinion her visitor was a Summer
Tanager.

I was dubious. “Tanagers are
shy,” said. “I have stalked them for
hours, getting no more than a few
glimpses.”

“Well, this one has made all the
advances,” she said, “he is so friend-
ly I’m tempted to lure him into a
nice cage and close the door on
him.”

24

The bird had first appeared in a
ﬂowering dogwood tree near her
home, and the family had admired
him from the large corner window.
From the ﬁrst, she had warned the

children nor to frighten him in any
way. Unlike many rural families, her
youngsters are taught an early rev-
erence for nature-lore, for bird-life
and wild animals, and for the varie-
gated trees and wild ﬂowers which
make this section of the country so
colorful.

Very quietly the family had sat in
the living room observing the scarlet

 




 

 

 

    

bird as he hopped from twig to twig,
ever closer to the window. Finally,
one day he ﬂew to the window sill
and helped himself to the array of
breadcrumbs there. Subsequently,
his visits became more frequent.

Almost from the ﬁrst, it had
seemed to the teen-age twins of the
house that the watching was mutual
——the bird was eyeing them through
the window!

“I doubt it,” said their mother,
“I think he’s merely admiring him-
self in the glass.”

“But he hops so close to the
glass,” said Martha, “and turns his
head sideways, and—well, he seems
to be looking me right in the eye!”

Shortly thereafter, her sister Mary
noticed something new. “Look,
MOther! He’s bringing a fat cater-
pillar in his bill!”

It was true. The visitor hopped
on the window sill, and after looking
through the glass in a prideful man-
ner at his audience, laid down the
caterpillar. Then, helping himself
to a leisurely snack of bread-crumbs,
he ﬂew back to the dogwood tree.
The worm had been left on the win-
dow sill. .

“He’s returning our hospitality,”
our niece told her children.

In the days that followed, this be-
came the usual routine. Daily, the
colorful visitor would arrive with his
offering. Daily, he would deposit it
on the window sill ,and after eating
his bread-crumbs, would make his
departure.

After he had left, little red-haired
Reggie would carefully remove the
worm or bug which the bird had
deposited. “So his feelings won’t be
hurt,” he explained solemnly to his
mother.

AMAZING VISITOR

 
  
 

When I had heard this story, I was
eager for a new experiment.

“Let us raise the window,” I said
to my niece, “and see what hap-
pens. And—please, may I be there
too?”

“You may,” she said, “but you
must stay in the kitchen and try to
keep out of sight. He isn’t used to
you, you know. I will adjust the liv-
ing room mirror 50 that you can
watch him.”

She gave the children careful in-
structions: Martha could sit on the
other side of the ﬁreplace, Mary
Could take a position across the room
by the bookcase, and Reggie could
sit on the rug by the china cat. The
mother, herself, would sit in the
corner, behind the antique spinning
wheel. And none of us were to
speak or make any sudden moves
during the bird’s visit. We could
watch him, and that was all.

The bird was accustomed to mak-
ing his visit in the early afternoon,
and so we had prepared the window
sill with bread-crumbs, had raised
the window high, and taken up our
assigned positions. accordingly.

We had not long to wait. There
was a ﬂash of vivid color, as the
bird ﬂew from the dogwood tree to
the window sill. He stood there for
an unforgettable moment, a mag-
niﬁcent Summer Tanager, holding a
dragonﬂy in his bill. He held it for
us all to see, and then laid it down
on the sill. Instead of showing any
interest in the bread-crumbs, he hop-
ped closer and closer to the open
window, turning head from side to
side. Then he hopped through the
window, and stood on the inner

ledge, looking curiously at the as-
25

 




sorted human statues who watched
him breathlessly. After looking the
situation over, he ﬂew to a chair-
back, paused there for a moment,
and then ﬂew to the mantel, where
he examined with great interest a
tin-type of one of our family an-

cestors. Next, he ﬂew to another
chair-back, cheeping companionably
all the while, and ﬁnally paused by a
potted rose geranium. With the air
of a connoisseur, he helped himself
to a geranium leaf, and then ﬂew out
the window with it in his beak.
Back to the dogwood tree he ﬂew,
disdaining his usual bread-crumbs,

As he left, red-haired Reggie could
contain himself no longer, but
rushed to the window to stare after
the amazing visitor.

“Look, Mom!” he said, “He‘s got
a wife waiting for him. See her
there in the tree?”

Dimly, in the green foliage, we
could see a female Tanager greeting
her lord. She was to accompany
him often thereafter; however, she
came no closer than the dogwood
tree. There she would await him,
while he deposited his offering of a
caterpillar or ﬂy, ate his ﬁll of bread-
crumbs, and then hopped through
the open window for a brief inspec-
tion of the living room. Occasional-
ly, he would nip off a small geranium
leaf on his way out.

After the novelty of his visits had
abated, little Reggie grew weary of
the sessions; the enforced quiet was
irksome to an active extrovert male
aged three. More and more he
absented himself at the visiting hour.

School would be opening soon,
and this meant a furore of activity
on the part of Mary and Martha.
Like the majority of Ozarks girls,

26

 

the were seamstresses alrea

made practically all of theirdg’chadij
c10thes. Lately, they spent most af-
ternoons in their room, from whence
came the industrious whir of the
sewing machine, punctuated with oc-
casional bursts of gay chatter. They
had not lost interest in the Tanager’s
visits; it was merely that they were
suddenly and excitingly busy.

Only the children’s mother kept
up the faithful vigil at the window
each day.

About this time, with the coming
of an Autumn crispness to the air,
the visits of the Tanager began
tapering off. His mate was no longer
visible at all. Alone, and infrequent-
ly, he came to the window sill.

"Good thing, too,” said the man
of the house realistically, “With cold
weather at hand, we’d all be getting
down with pneumonia, from that
open window."

On a blustery September day, our
niece donned her sweater and sat by
the window, looking hopefully into
the dogwood tree. When she saw
the Tanager, she quietly raised the
window. From the nearest branch
of the tree, he looked down at her
in a friendly manner, and also look-
ed at the fresh crumbs she had ar-
ranged for him. However, he made
no move towards the house today.
Instead, he threw back his little head
and bursr into song.

"There was an element of fare-
well about it," she related, a hint of
tears in her eyes, "because he had
never sung for us before. It was as
if he was thanking us for a lowly
summer. And after that beautlful
little solo, he ﬂew off into the col
grey sky and never returned.”

 

 

 

 




ADVERTISEMENT

Don’t Take Chances With Your Cat’s Life!

The very thought of losing your cat is
frightening enough; but if you lost your
cat because you failed to protect your
pet, you would feel that much worse.

You will be delighted to learn, there-
fore, that you need not take chances
with the life of your pet. Here — at last
-— is the first truly safe collar for cats.

Why Is This Collar Truly Safe?

Designed by a cat lover out of neces-
sity, and acclaimed by cat fanciers,
veterinarians, and representatives of
many pet organizations, the SAFETY
CAT COLLAR eliminates hooking or
hanging on trees and branches outdoors,
and furniture or other obiects indoors.
It is made of smooth leather-type mate-
rial and sturdy elastic fabric, is soft and
comfortable to wear, and adiustable to
the size of each individual cat’s neck.

This collar is safe because if kitty
should hook, the elastic stretches —— cats
cannot choke to death or hang. If nec-
essary, the metal adiuster automatically
pops off, giving your cat plenty of room

 

The Best Collar For Your Cat

who slipped out the open door with
wide-eye curiosity and never returned ——
simply because there was no collar to
show the person who picked up the cat
that the pet belonged to someone who
loved this kitty dearly.

”Anem- s 4

 

 

to escape. @K

recommended by
PET DIGEST

«a «A
‘DVEIu-rum "‘E'Tt

  
     

   

Why Use Any Cat Collar?

All cats should wear collars because it

Protect YOUR Cat

You can purchase the SAFETY CAT
shows that they are not strays. The collar
also serves as a means of hanging an COLLAR from Pet Health, Inc., Box 572,

identification tag on the cat. Ansonia Sta., N. Y. 23, N. Y. The price

BUl what about the cat owner whose is only $1.00 for each collar. Collars
cat never goes outdoors? The answer IS
that once may be too late! The papers will be sent postpaid by return marl.

are filled with ads for lost house-cats

27

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GATEWAY TO THE AIR FORCE

BY H. KELLER

GERMAN SHEPHERD sentry dog
getting his ﬁrSt peek at Lack-

land Air Force Base from his
aluminum travel cage must wonder
at his predicament—a shepherd with
no hills, only a few trees, and not a
cat in sight.

Instead of a dog psychiatrist, the
ﬁrst step after arrival at the USAF
Sentry Dog Training Course at Lack-
land is a Shakedown physical with
the school veterinarian.

The physical is the beginning of a
21-day maximum processing period
for the dogs where 2 percent of the
new arrivals fail to meet school
Standards. Both male and female
dogs are shipped to Lackland. The
females must be spayed 90 days be-
28

fore arrival. This surgical sidelight
is an economy factor because the Art
Force has found it cheaper to buy
than breed.

After evaluation. those found
qualiﬁed are accepted for tralnlﬂg,
purchased from the owner, given a
“serial number" (ofﬁcially known as
21 Preston brand number) and intro—
duced to their handler—the new
man in their life with whom they
will spend the next eight weeks at
Lackland‘s exclusive sentry dog
school.

The Department of Defense hes
three sentry dog schools: one in
Japan. one in Germany, and Lac '
land.

Lackland‘s school. which has been

 




 

 

in operation three years, is operated
by the Air Force, but attended and
Staffed by both Army and Air Force
personnel. Student dogs are recruited
from throughout the United States
by the Animal Procurement Section,
Fort Worth General Depot, U. 8.
Army Quartermaster Corps, and
shipped to Lackland for evaluation.

Over 99 percent of the dogs ac-
cepted for training will complete
the course. This percent does not
include physical washouts from over-
heating, snake-bite or disease.

Let’s take a look at that dog in the
travel cage. He weighs over 60
pounds and is from one to three-
years-old. The dog is a good repre-
sentative of the German Shepherd
breed, but not necessarily registered.
Student dogs are not gun shy and
must show signs of aggressiveness.

The veterinarian takes a real close
look. He looks for inﬁrmities; heart
worms, old injuries, heat reaction (a
shepherd can work in 108 degree
heat), and in the x-ray print, hip
displasia—a frequent cause for re-
jection.

If the dog pleases the vet he is
added to the 150 dogs who make up
the school population. If the student
had no name when he arrived he is
given one and he is now ready to
join his handler and begin the eight
weeks of school, romping through
such subject matter as basic and ad-
vanced obedience, agitation, scouting
and patrolling, advanced and con-
trolled agitation.

School mission: train the dog to
attack on command. There are no
frills. The dog gets no tidbits, his
only reward for good work is verbal
praise and pats from his handler.

The only correction used in sen-

try dog training is the verbal com-
mand “no,” and the choke chain
and leash.

Once a day the dogs are fed a
commercial dry food mixed with
water and powdered vitamins. Total
weight of the daily dog diet is. three
and a half pounds.

The natural traits of a German
shepherd make him the best breed
for sentry dog work. He has the»
ability to recognize and recall as
many as 108 voice and gesture com-
mands. The shepherd is naturally
aggressive and has 42 teeth with a
potential power of 650 pounds per
square inch.

There is a popular misconception
that sentry dogs are Vicious. Senior
Master Sergeant Johnnie Pate, ser—
geant in charge of sentry dog train-
ing at Lackland, cleared this point
up, “A vicious dog is uncontrollable
whereas the sentry dog is trained to
respond immediately to command—a
trained dog attacking oﬁr leash, will
respond to verbal command, stop his
attack and return to heel position.”

The sentry dog and his handler
graduate as a team and report for
duty together. A dog-man team, as
effective at night as six men, is
posted to guard alert aircraft, weapon
Storage areas, fuel, communications
and missile sites.

The dog handlers volunteer for
sentry dog duty, the students com-
ing from the Army military police
and the air police of the Air Force.

And after eight weeks of the rug-
ged training at Lackland it’s hard to
come between a man and his dog—-
don’t try it or you will be looking
in the yellow pages for the nearest

seamstress.
O O O O O O O O O

29

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PET DIGEST

 

 

“THE"
TERRIER

MAGAZINE

PRESENTING EACH
MONTH . . .

0 Current news on all Terriers
o Pedigrees of new champions
0 Pictures of recent winners

0 Profiles of all-time ”Greats”

0 Complete coverage of
specialties

o A ”Show of the Month”
coverage

0 Structural analysis of
all Terriers

o PLUS . . . timely articles by
notecl authorities.

TERRIER TALK

Dan Kiedrowski,
Editor & Publisher

2270 Market Street
San Francisco I4, California

Please enter my subscription for ........
years.

Enclosed is my check for ....................

Nua me .............................

Address ........................................

RATES: T yr. $4.00; 2 yrs. $7.00;

 

Canadian $5.00 annually

 

 

 

THE COMPLETE WONDER
VITAMIN AN D MINERAL
FORMULA. FORTIFIED WITH
LIPOTROPIC FACTORS AND
VITAMIN E. FOR YOUR
FAVORITE

DOG and CAT

$1.25 (33 tablets) Regular Size
$3.00 (100 tablets) Economy Size

Oll<€

recommended by

PET DIGEST

   
 

 

4 “i
s ‘Dvsausan “‘3‘“;

THERE IS NO BETTER
VITAMIN FOR YOUR PET

anaaoaaaoa
PET HEALTH Inc, Box 572
Ansonia Sta. N. Y. 23, N. Y.

 

 

30

 

 

 




 

 

For All Bird Lovers

BY ALYSE E. MURRY

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

have been asking the people to

feed and care for our wild birds
now. It is really important as during
recent migrations vast numbers of
our lovely songsters have been killed
by ﬂying into the tall buildings along
their way, the giant light beams and
light towers of our air dromes and
even by planes. If we wish our gar-
den scavengers and inse‘Ct eaters to
survive, we should do all we can to
help them during the cold winter
months and early spring of nesting
time. Nor is all of this without its
compensation in the business world.
One day last winter I asked the man-
ager of a local pet shop about his
sales in cold weather. He told me

r I ‘HE HUMANE SOCIETY members

u...

51

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PET DIGEST

that he had sold 300 pOUHdS 0f Wild
bird seed alone on that day and that
there was a fairly steady demand for
bird feeders of different types all
during the cold weather. Good, let’s
have more of it.

While on a recent trip to the
south I was interested in. meeting a
man who seems to be a vertiable
modern Audubonn. I had read of
Clem Wilding and seen some of his
bird carvings, so I took a couple of
days to go out to the farm and in-
vesrigate, for myself.

Nestling in the hills near the little
town of Berger, Missouri, is a large
farm overlooking the beautiful coun-
try along the Missouri River. Here
the Wilding family live with every
opportunity given for Clem Wilding
to develop his interest in bird con-
servation and his talent for carving
and painting our birds. Migrating
ﬂocks pass along the river banks in
great numbers at the change of sea-
sons, and in the spring, wild song-
sters of every color and size nest in
the huge old trees. Here one can
really see bird life.

Along one side of the Wilding
farm 3000 multiﬂora rose bushes
have been planted just to help the
birds. In the spring the thick leafy
bushes furnish ideal nesting sites.
Then in the fall, the bushes are cov-

ered with great clusters of jucy ber-
ries, and vasr numbers of beautiful
birds come to the feast. The day I
was out there, there were more
mocking birds than any other specie,
but many different kinds feed on
these bushes. In Winter, even when
deep snow is on the ground, there
is still food as some of the berries
are left on the lower branches and
the ground under the thick bushes
furnishes protection from storms and
cold.

Beside the shrubs and trees, Mr.
Wilding has placed bird feeding sta-
tions and nesting houses about the
farm in suitable locations. He also
hangs many gourds in the trees to
accommodate the tiny wrens so
plentiful there, and orher small birds
in need of nesring protection. With
all of this care of wild life, the farm
has become a regular bird sanctuary.

There are many good books on the
market about our wild birds, that are
both interesting and helpful in teach-
ing us to care for them. Two that
I like very much are ATTRACTING
BIRDS TO YOUR BACKYARD,
by W. J. Beecher, and THE BIRDS
ARE YOURS by Lemmon and Eck-
elberry. Studying our Wild birds can
be a most fascinating and enjoyable
hobby.

 

 

32

MANATUCK FARM
1559 Manatuck Road
Bayshore, |.. |., N. Y.

Suggests that you purchase a HAMSTER at your favorite pet counter. HAMSTERS
make the most delightful, intelligent, odorless

      
 

 

oooooooo d

«d b'.‘ .
PET DIGEST

   

and most friendly pets.

 

 




 

BIRDS

PARRAKEETS: Reduced Prices.
Harlequins Clear Pieds, Violets,
Others. Breeders or Young. Stamp
Please. Frances Fahrlander, 501
Ridgelawn, Hamilton, Ohio.

 

 

WHAT IS OUR BIRD’S NAME?

A Personal Nameplate For Your Bird. Very '

Attractive, Fits All Cages. Just Send Us
Your Bird’s Name, Up To Ten Letters, En-
close $l.00 Check Or Money Order, No
C.O.D. We Mail Post Paid. PETLINE COM-
PANY, 4471 West 160th St., Cleveland 35,
Ohio.

 

WANTED

German Shepherd Dogs

Dogs needed for training in Police
Canine work.

Necessary qualifications:

Male dogs only

12 to 24 months of age

70 pounds or more in weight
Ears erect

Good, sturdy hips

Alert and intelligent looking
Not timid

Not vicious

Dogs to be trained by the St. Louis Met-
ropolitan Police Department Canine Div:-
sion.

For full particulars contact Maior Andrew
T. Aylward, Commander Bureau of Services,
Canine Training Division, 12th & Clark
Street, St. Louis 3, Missouri.

 

 

 

Looking For Loyal Workers?

Employ the handicapped. You
will be pleased at the ability,
loyalty and grateful cooperation
that will ALWAYS be tendered.

Phone your local
employment agency

 

 

THE BOUVIER DE FLANDERS
IN AMERICA
Janet Mach
Collaborators include

outstanding authorities
in US. and Belgium

 

due in the near fatnre

 

 

 

 

WWW

There are over ﬁfteen type: of Terrierr and nearly a: mach Toy

variationr.

The ﬁrrt real dog show was at Mineola, N. Y. on Oct. 7, 1874.
It was limited to pointerr, Irirh Jetterr and Golden retterr and was
held nnder Englirh Kennel Clnh rnler.

We hope it doern’t mahe the cow: mad. After all, what cow will
stay contented when it develop: that the fellow who said he loved
her hert of all i: Jhown np a: one who war mortly interested in money.

Ben Johnron—I do hononr the very flea of his~ dog.

Alexander Pope—Hi: faithfnl dog yhall hear him company.

Wm. Penn———Men are generally more carefnl of the hreed of their
horrei~ and dog: than of their children.

53

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PET DIGEST

HORSE TESTS HELD
ASTHMA STUDY AID

Research into the deaths 0f
thoroughbred horses, especially foals,
has produced an entirely new ap-
proach to the treatment of asthma,
hay fever and skin troubles in human
beings.

Dr. W. R. W’ooldridge, scientiﬁc
director, Equine Research Station of
the Animal Health Trust, said the
new approach was so promising that
the British Medical Research Council
and the Medical Research Develop-
ment Council are cooperating in its
further development.

During the course of the invest-
igation on horses, a substance was
found in certain white cells in the
horses’ blood that played an active
part in the control of histamine, fre-
quently the cause of surgical and
accidental shock, skin lesions of the
nettle rash type such allergies as
asthma and hay fever.

“Most of the allergy conditions
in humans and in animals are caused
by excess production of histamine in
the body,” Dr. W’ooldridge said.

Earlier research work had shown
that the effects of this excess were
automatically reduced in the presence
of white blood cells (leucocytes)
known as eosinophils. This sug-
gested that injecrions of eosinophils
might be used to combat histamine,
prov1ded that means could be found
to separate live cells from the blood
stream.

1. After more than a year of work,

tne Equine Research Station de-

V610p§d a technique by which eosi-

nophils, alive and normal in all re-

21:53:18, 510211 iblci Secovered from the
g egree of purity.

54

It is now possible to make an
extract of eosinophil leucocytes con-
taining a substance proved to be
more powerfully antihistaminic and
anti-inﬂammatory than any so far
discovered.

 

BIRD LINK TO DISEASE

Starlings were implicated by
health ofﬁcials in Washington last
week as agents responsible for trans-
mitting a sometimes-fatal lung dis-
ease in humans called hiStoplasmosis.

The report was made by Dr.
Chester W. Emmons, chief of the
Medical Mycology SeCtion of the
National Institute of Allergy and
Infectious Diseases. It was con-
tained in the June issue of Public
Health Reports, a publication of the
Public Health Service.

The disease is caused by a fungus,
Histoplasma capsulatum. It was
found in soil contaminated by starl-
ing droppings under some sycamore
trees in \Washington parks. Man is
infected by inhaling contaminated
soil or dust. There is no drug treat—
ment for the disease, which is gen-
erally common to rural areas having
chicken and pigeon roors.

3k 38 =X< =K< =X=

All my life I’ve heard people com-
plain that my kind must be trained
to Stop chasing birds. Well, I’m n0t
justifying my aCtions but I’d like
it to be known that our behavior is
instincrive and that we cat have no
control over the situation. I’m not
saying I’m right, but I wish people
would know the reason why.

 

 

 




 

ALICE WERNHERR

Human - Animal

Photographer

By Appointment at

Your Home or Office

Phone: CHelsea 3-1929

 

 

 

 

66666666666686‘9’6’6‘6' °W°6‘0” ” '6“ “ ”O” ‘66’6’0’66’6’6‘6’6’0’6’6’0’666’666‘6
00 O. O. O. .9 .0 O. O. O. O. O. O. O. .0 O. O. .9. O. 0. .0009. .99.. .9” O. O. .0 .0 O. .0 .9 0. O. O. .0 O. O. O. 60 O. .0 O. O. O. O
O I 9

9.

 

g: Clean, Cool, Sparkling Identification Collar. A §
0 beautiful collar, custom made to fit all dogs. :0:
385 Welded steel chain, chrome plated. Polished 33:
Egg stainless steel stenciled plate, your name and g
;3; address professionally done. Give breed and g;
0 measure around HEAD. Measure snugly. :0:
£3 Guaranteed to fit. Money back if not pleased. :°:
E82 C2-collar—2.50. g
Egg Matching leather and chain walking leash. Extra large hand loop. 33
g 30" top quality leather. 48” over-all. lO-leash—2.50. 3
£3 Also Professional Quality leather collars. Write for free catalogue. :8:
Egg Slip Check Co., Centralia, Missouri 3%:
:2; Photo Courtesy of Friedman-Abeles g

0
9°.
0 0

96000066066600.6666. » u u u u u u u u u n u u 0. u o. 00 066666666$¢66866V6V0000
o u u u 00 u u u o. oo n u o9.00.09.00.0000.900.00.00900909o°oo°n°oo°u°oo°u°n « u u u 0. u u u u n u n 00 00 '9 0' ” ” “ ’

0°.
0 O

 

SMALL ANIMALS & FOWLS
America’s most ”complete” small animal and fowl magazine.
Sample copy, 35¢; Yearly, $2.00; 3 full years only $5.00

Van Cise Publishing Co.,
Bad Axe, Michigan

 

 

 

35

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

New Institution Hailed

BY DEAN WHITE

 

 

 

N THE COURSE of time, few events
I catch the public eye as much as

the creation of a new national in-
stitution. The terms, “League,”
“Club,” “Association,” “Fraternity”
and “Organization” have become
cliche’ in our fast moving and faster
changing society. Unfortunately, too
many groups lose their luster after
the first ray’s of “salvation and
world saving” has passed and the
hard work and deep rooted dedica-
tion take grasp. Occasionally a group
comes along that has at its ﬁnger-
tips, all the ingredients needed for
a successful operation.
THE INSTITUTE FOR HUMAN-
ANIMAL RELATIONSHIP is such
an organization. For here is a group
that has “cause,” “dedication,” “lead-
ership,” “organization” and most of
all “belief.” Here is a group, in an
age of “anti,” “liberation,” “nega-
tive” and “escape” that stands for
something. . . the creation of a new
concept of therapy; namely the treat-
ment, help and even recovery of the
handicapped, the shut-in, geriatric,

36

the troubled in mind and heart and
the delinquent who has become anti-
social for the want of love, now can
be cured thru pets.

The Institute will place a bird, cat,
dog and ﬁsh tank where it will do
the most good for education and re-
habilitation for these people. The
Institute strives nor to take but to
give; their cause is their dedication
—their goal to succeed. Led by a
core of learned humanitarians, THE
INSTITUTE FOR HUMAN-ANI-
MAL RELATIONSHIP has made
gains beyond their fondest dreams.
Although still in its infancy, the In-
stitute already has a board of direc-
tors ,a central location in Washing-
ton, D. C., top ﬂight personnel and
most important, eager and qualiﬁed
members. They come from every
walk of life, from every setcion of
the country. They also have one
united belief—the betterment of
human-animal relationship. Under
the leadership of the renowned, Dr.
Richard H. Hoffman, the Institute
is carefully weeding out the mOSt

 

 




 

 

qualiﬁed requests for membership.
Thanks to the generosity of humani—
tarians who realize what it takes to
lift an idea to a reality, the Institute
is quickly taking shape. Endorsed
by PET DIGEST, which has become
its ofﬁcial publication, THE INSTI-
TUTE FOR HUMAN-ANIMAL
RELATIONSHIP is and will receive
national publicity.

This is a group that opens its
doors to those who require help;
that loves both people and animals;
that share the belief of employing
the handicapped; that demand in-
terest, participation, and belief from
all its members. Here is a group

that offers its hand to those who
care and in turn offers its hand to
those who need. This is just the
beginning but a substantial start.
This is the ﬁrst word on an organiza-
tion that will capture the hearts of
all people, rise, above the stigma of
mediocracy and take its place on the
narrow plateau of “good.”

For full information write to:

INSTITUTE FOR HUMAN-
ANIMAL RELATIONSHIP, INC.
734 15th Street, N. W.
Washington 5, D. C.

WHOM

OUTCAST

By

Albert B. sziie

Poor, pitiable cat,

You came upon our way,

One-eared, forlorn and cast away:
Our hearts

Were stricken by your cries

And that last ﬂickering look of hope
In your sad eyes.

For three bright years

You gladdened hearth and home,

Forgot your fears,

Gave love for love,

And there was gentleness in all your
ways.

Alas,
So short the dream!

Those maladies of darker days. ;

O’ertook and laid you low . . .

2
And now with aching hearts
We face

A house and garden empty of your
grace.

Dear God,

\W ho made all living things,

We pray

That if men fail us in our hour of
need,

Or if we stray,

Some saving comforter may come our
way,

A friend

To weave a spell of happiness

Before our end.

IW'MWWWWWWWM

37

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

PRINTING OF PRIDE,

a At Prices to Please!

may.

«3‘3; Write for Quotations on any
printing, from calling cards to
catalogues.

B.E.R. PRESS
11526 Burbank Blvd. No. Hollywood, Calif.

 

 

 

Way We 7M6 20“ 70¢ a Edda

   
   

We specialize in Training Cart and Sled and Pack Dogs, and
Manufacture Play and Racing Dog Sleds, Carts, Harnesses.

Packsacks for Dogs. Sled and Carr Dog Training Manual. $5.00
Postpaid.

RAYMOND THOMPSON CO. [K

I " 1,}
Dept. O.P.W. KL!

  

recommended by
PET DIGEST

«
9
4. 4°V:nn.:n 1""

Alderwoocl Manor, Wa;hington (State)

 

 

FOR BIRD FANCIERS

 

 

B E A G l. E S

A specialty magazine for lovers of budgies, A'K'C' REGlSTERED HELD ES

. . CHAMPION SIRED BEAGLE PUPPI
canarIes, ﬁnches, etc. SpeCIal alter, 6 M

months $1.00. American Cage-Bird HlllSlDE BEAGl-E FAR
Magazine. CLARENCE E. POPE I .
e—H‘ll hero. I" M"

3449 N. WESTERN, DEPT. OP '92;.;Z?..’¢,A§i.::.= Kén'ogg 2-2648

CHICAGO l8, ILLINOIS Farm Phone: KEIlogg 3-4553

 

38

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Adopt A Puppy or Kitten
HELP FIND A HOME FOR A PET

 

BIDE-A-WEE HOME ASSOCIATION, INC.
410 East 38th Street, Near East River, New York 16
LE 2-4455

During the ﬁscal year ended August 31, 1961, Bride-A-Wee placed
over 10,000 dogs and cats as pets with private families.

As far as we know, we shelter and treat more living animals
daily than any other organization in the United States, since
none is destroyed unless incurahly ill.

SUBSCRIBE TO THE
Bide-A-Wee Quarterly Magazine!

This magazine contains many interesting stories about pets,
pictures, articles on training and pet care and news in the humane
ﬁeld. It Will also keep you informed of our work throughout

the year.
$1.00 — PER YEAR $2.00 — 3 YEARS
Write for Sample Copy

Published quarterly by the Bide-A-Wee Home Association, Inc.
a non-proﬁt organization devoted to animal welfare

 

 

 

 

59

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ca ptivating Kittens

BY MEG MERRILL

As ocelots and margays become
more numerous as pets, it becomes
increasingly important from the
standpoint of the prospective owner
that he learn prior to purchase
something of the nature of the
animal he has chosen to share his
life; from the standpoint of the
animal it is urgent. Due mainly to
an ocelots size many people begin
by buying a pet and end by having
a one animal zoo . . . that is to say
a cage with a jungle cat in it. This
is patently unfair to the cat. It
would have been better if he had
been left in his natural surroundings.
Many people see a tiny ocelot in a
pet shop and without knowing any-
thing about the adult animal, buy it.
W’hen the cat begins to show signs
of its future size and strength, they
realize they have made a mistake.
It is then the ads appear in the
paper “Ocelot for Sale”. The ocelot
begins to travel from home to home
until it dies of mishandling or be-
comes so ill-tempered that the kind-
est recourse is to destroy it.

A margay, although he is an ex-
uberant little cat (his weight ranges
from 10 to about 13 pounds as
against an ocelots 25 to 60 pounds)
IS a better pet for people who have
apartments, children or breakable
treasures. A margay is a combina-
tion of cat, dog, flying squirrel and
Court Jester and caging him is
generally unnecessary and certainly
unwrse. We cage our little Monte-
zuma but only at night and only
then because if we didn’t he would
sleep on my pillow. That wouldn’t
be bad but he wakes a number of

40

 

capable of keeping myself clean
and no other way for me to avoid
severe insomnia, when we go to bed
he goes to bed . . . behind bars . . .
but ONLY at night.

him ecstatic and he purrs in my ear.
Since it seems that there is no way
to make it clear to him that I am
bOth himself and me. This makes
times during the night to bathe

Even so, there are certain require-
ments a margay insists on if he is
to be a welcome addition to a home.
A margay owner must be patient
and calm. Civilization can be not
only strange but also frightening to
a little denizen of the jungle and
he needs constant attention and re-
assurance. If you are not willing to
deVOte an exceptional amount of
time and love to your pet, do not
get a jungle cat. If you have very
small children, do nOt get a jungle
cat. If you want only a show piece
or attention-getter, do not get a
jungle cat. The cat will sense the
lack of feeling and will be a very
unsatisfactory pet. Even if you feel
you have the time and talent needed
to make a pet of a feral creature,
be sure to learn all you can about
one before attempting to get 0116'-
If you do possess all the necessary
qualities, you will end up by being
the captive of the margay.




 

 
    

Send for FREE booklet oi the story
i , . "How loos Talk" and descriptive
0 literature on the nova, complete, low
cost honeybee Hobby Hive.

THE A. I. ROOT CO. MEDINA, OHIO

 

“The oﬂxpringof a singlet fly may
nitmher millions.”
“Gee, what then mm‘t the ‘oﬂ-
Jpring of a married fly he?”
=X< =X< =X= $8 =K‘

The ahrent-mintleil man found a
piece of rope in hit hand.
“Well,” he raid, “I’ve either
fonna' a rope or loxt a horse.”
=X< 3* =X= 3)? ’X‘

“My home is a carious animal.”
“How i: that?”
“He eat: hert when he haxn’t a

hit in hi5 month.”
=X= =X< ’X‘ it: it

 

Support Private Enterprise!

T
H T

0 Playing Cards U _
0 Personalized Stationery, Napkins, Match Books

0 Subscriptions For All Magazines
”Prices Lower Than Stores”

BARNEY MAMET +
”The Sightless Salesman”

208 WEST 23rd STREET
NEW YORK 11, N. Y.

  

 

 

66 99 recommended by
WE W‘ﬁVOTT WORK PET DIGEST
CHARITY as ADVERTISED ngge‘

 

 

 

41

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

has given birth to five pups in the woods while being protected by
an eagle, on Lassie” on the CBS Television Network.

42

A LITTER FOR LASSlE—Jon Provost smiles his approval at Lassie, who

 

 




 

CINDERELLA

DA CH SH UND

SAILS 0N S. S. FRANCE

By Frank Long

There was a special passenger—a
sort of canine Cinderella—on board
the S. S. France when the world’s
newesr luxury liner embarked for
Europe.

No glass slippers. did she wear on
her paws, but otherwise all is in the
fairy tale (or tail) tradition.

She is a one-year-old dachshund
called Stormy, with warm, soulful
brown eyes. Her name is unrelated
to her friendly, playful disposition.
It’s also, hope French Line ofﬁcials,
unrelated to weather and seas for her
round-trip vacation crossing aboard
the France.

Stormy recently traded in her life
as jusr one of a number of orphan
dogs in the New York ASPCA ken-
nels for her luxurious voyage and
adoption by a family with two little
open-armed daughters.

The event, hopes ASPCA, will
help to spotlight the fact that many
desirable dogs are available for adop-
tion here and through similar or-
ganizations across the country.
Stormy’s dream-come-true really puts
her in good hands because she was
adopted by a representative of the
Sergeant’s Dog Care Center of Rich-
mond, Va., who resides in Pennsyl-
vania.

Besides the good food (from men-
us in French, no less), cozy accom-
modations and loving care from
French Line authorities en route,
Stormy and her traveling companions

 

have beneﬁted from the installation
of dog care products from Sergeant’s
on board ship. The preparations even
included ﬂea and tick spray to in-
sure that wayward little Stowaway-
hoppers from either side of the At-
lantic will not be able to set up shop
on the France.

Upon her return from her royal
overseas junket, Stormy will reside in
the tranquil farm area of Doylestown,
Pa., with Mr. and Mrs. Craig Tarler
and their youngsters Sally, seven and
Pamela, six, for happy-ever-aftering
in earnest.

43

 




 
   
   
 
  

 

   
   

  
  
  

  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
 
  
   
   
  
    
  
 
  
   

 

 

 

Lover of Cats

BY DR. RICHARD H. HOFFMANN

Oliver Herford, the great Anglo-
American Wit—an artist and poet
of no mean calibre, was one of my
dear friends and sympathetic patients.
He was a great lover of cats. In
facr he wrote the “Rubaiyat of a
Persian Kitten,” which is a classic
in feline anthology.

Oliver often said that if you
wanted to acquire grace and dexterity
of movement, watch and imitate a
cat. A cat is sure-footed and posses-
ses an unfailing sense of position in
space, and an inherent instinct for
balance, unrivaled by any other ani-
mal. N o matter how you drop a cat
it will always fall on its feet.

Oliver frequently carried a kitten
in a silk-lined basket when he went
on a visit to some friend. One day,
accompanied by one of his favorites,
he paid a friendly call on Miss Cissie
Loftus, the celebrated actress.

“What have you in that funny
basket?” asked Cissie with undis-
guised curiosity. ‘

44

PET DIGEST

  
 
  

J

(Preridem 0f the Imtitute for
Human-Animal Relationship”)

Oliver opened the basket and out
jumped a beautiful Persian kitten.
Cats are mOSt inquisitive of animals,
and this one began to roam about
the apartment, sniffing and touching
one object after another. Finally, she
jumped up on the mantlepiece, on
which there was a small bisque bust
of Shakespeare.

“Oh, look out, Oliver,” cried Cis-
sie. “That cat will throw something
oil that mantlepiece.”

“Never,” answered Oliver. “Cats
wander all over my apartment and
never bump into anything that
should n0t be bumped into.”

At the moment, the kitten swished
its tail, hit Shakespeare, and the bust
fell to the marble hearth breaking
into a number of fragments.

“You can’t blame the kitten,” said
Oliver with defensive indignation.
“She thought it was Bacon.”

 




 
  

you 53mm?"
wanna a wumvm
you m:

was 3w. or
APPROVAL

0%

recommended by

PET DIGEST

 

  
 

   

4 «S 91$
9»
ADVERTISED THE *




 

V
I

V,

”mum

‘Vr‘V ‘ - ‘C‘v my. ‘

PM?

I"

 




T4 SHEETS

= FIIZZOOFF a

REMOVES FUZZ—DUST-HAIR from Clothes 0 Shoes 0 Hats 0 Upholstery

”FUZZ-OFF” is a convenient and quick way to remove fuzz-dust-hair
' from almost any surface.
This handy packet can be carried in shirt pocket, purse,
glove compartment, luggage, anywhere.

SIMPLE TO USE

Remove crepe liner and pat or rub lightly with tacky surface.

C. O. DICKS CO
Demon, MICH. o PLAINFIELD, N. J. o CHICAGO, m. o MONROVIA, CM.

PRESSURE SENSITIVE PAPERS FOR EVERY PURPOSE

LONG ISLAND
OCELOT CLUB

Atmaganse’rt, New ‘York

”CC is a nonprofit, noncom-
mercial club national in member-
ship, devbted to the welfare
of pet ocelots, margays, bobcats,
and like pet felines.
MEMBERSHIP at $5 per year
includes six informative issues of
the ”CC Newsletter, advice on
care and handling, as well
as opportunity for personal

contact with local owners.

WRITE for details and FREE
sample LIOC Newsletter.

Mrs. Catherine Cisin, Founder
Amagansett, N. Y.

 

47

 




 

A! last— a Hospitalization

 

 

Here's good news for those of you who
do not drink. Now, for the first time,
you can get the newest and finest type
of hospitalization coverage at an un-
believably low rate because the GOLD
STAR Policy is offered to non-drinkers
ONLY! Think of it! $100.00 weekly
from the first day and for as long as
you remain in the hospital!

ONE OUT OF TWO

Statistics show that one person out
of two families will spend time in the
hospital this year. Every day over

DR. DANIEL A. POLING, Noted
Minister and Editor of The Chris-
tian Herald: "The advantages of
a hospital plan which is avail-
able to non-drinkers only are
obvious. The lower rate is made
possible because you are not
paying the bills for the illnesses
and accidents of those who use
alcohol.“

   

   

.I. C. PENNEY, Noted philan-
thropist, Founder of the J. C.
Penney Company: ”I have a
sincere conviction that liquor is
one of the chief causes of un-
happiness both to the people
w 0 drink and to those who are
near and dear to them. Early in
my life I decided not to touch
liquor. I am delighted to know
of the DeMoss Gold Star Total
Abstainers’ Plan that provides a
premium rate so much lower.”

 

%%%§%§§

 

Pays $100.00 Weekly from First Day for Life
to readers of PET DIGEST

64,000 people enter the hospital . . . \

47,000 of these for the very first time.
SURPRISING COMPARISON

Have you studied your present health
insurance? Is it adequate? Do you
realize that current room rates alone
frequently run $20 to $30 a day? Can
your present policy be cancelled at a
time when you might most need it?
Do benefits start the FIRST day you
are hospitalized? GOLD STAR protec-
tion costs only $4 a month for each
adult age 19 through 64, or $40 for
twelve full months. For each child un-
der 19 the rate is just $3 for a month's
protection.

COMPARE THESE LOW GOLD STAR
RATES WITH THE LIBERAL BENEFITS
PAGE!

‘i'q'aentiy, find": i

.tgaiization, insure-n
STAR, Senior Cit
pay only $6 be "

year- This p 2
éiDENTIoAL fiber-

standard GOLD S

policy, and IS”, GO

s%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%ﬁi

_ MONEY BACK GUARANTEE . r
We'll mall your policy to your home. No salesman will call. In the prlvaCy 0f yoﬂr
own home, read the policy over. Examine it carefully. Have it checked by yges
lawyer, your doctor, Your friends or some trusted advisor. Make sure It Pro‘“ at
exactly What we’ve told you it does. Then, if for any reason whatsoever you aref nnd
fUIIY satisfied, lUSt mail your p0|icy back within ten days, and we'll cheerfully re uou
your entire premium by return mail, with no questions asked. So you 599' y
ave everythlng to gain and nothing to lose.

%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

t

 




   

Plan For Non-Drinkers Only!

NO WAITING PERIODS *
NO AGE LIMIT *

CHECK THESE REMARKABLE FEATURES:

 

0 Only YOU cah cancel.

0 Good anywhere in the
world!

0 Pays in addition to
any other hospital
insurance you may
carry.

0 All benefits paid di-
rectly to you in cash
—tax free!

  
  
 
    
 
   
 

ONLY YOU CAN CANCEL
NO SALESMAN WILL CALL

GOLD
STAR

GOES

ALL THE WAY!

your policy is issued.
No limit on the num-
ber of times you can
collect.

Pays whether you are
in the hospital for
only a day or two, or
for many weeks,
months, or even

    

covered except, of

years!

0 Claim checks are sent 0
Iout Airmail Special
Delivery! 0

No policy fees or en-
rollment fees!
Ten-day uncondi-

course, hospitaliza-
tion caused by the
use of alcoholic bev-
erages or narcotics,

‘ N0 age limit. tional money-back pre-existing condi-
0 Immediate coverage! guarantee! tiOﬂS. pregnancy, 0"
Full benefits go into 0 Every kind of sick’- any act 0f war. Every-

effect noon of the day

  

MRS. ADALINE T. HALL, Treadwell, New York—
”Thank you again for the second draft. This
is beyond my hopes. Little did I expect to use
It so soon, but sickness is no respecter of
persons. God bless you and all your staff
workers.”

Ill/IR. R. FRANK COLBURN, Lakeland, Florida—
| yvant to thank you for the check and the
Christian attitude expressed by your company
m handling my claim. It gives me great satis-
faction to have insurance with such a Company
as the Gold Star Family Plan.”

MRS. LUCILLE R. CAMPBELL, Corpus Christi,
Texas—“We are recommending this company
to many, many friends, and I am sure you will
be gaining new members as a result of our
efforts to help you."

MR. JAMES B. DIGGINS, Flint, Michigan—
:I do appreciate the check, and the good serv-
Ice rendered by your Company during our
Sickness. It was purely a coincidence that Mrs.
Diggins entered the hospital on the very day
that Our policy went into effect. I was very
glad that I had made application, and had been
accepted by your Company, because the check
was really needed. Thanks again for all your
consideration.”

For reference, contact your local Chamber
of Commerce or Better Business Bureau.

ness and accident

thing else IS covered!

"Pays you $100.00 weekly for life while
you are in the hospital.

Pays $2,000.00 cash for accidental
death

Pays $2,000.00 cash for loss of one
hand, or one foot, or sight of one eye.

Pays $6,000.00 cash for loss of both
hands, or both feet, or sight of both
eyes.

This plan offered exclusively by

DE MOSS ASSOCIATES, Inc.
VALLEY FORGE, PENNA.

“Special Protection for Special People”

    

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

APPLICATION FOR

lililll Star Total Alistaioors’ Hospitalization Policy "

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

0—1-6681—052
“ MY NAME IS
STREET 0R RD#
7 CITY ZONE___STATE
f DATE or BIRTH: Month _ Day_Year Heigh;WeighL__ ‘
MY OCCUPATION IS
My beneficiary is y Relationship
‘ I also apply for coverage for the members of my family listed below:
V Name Date of Birth Age Relationship Height Weight
'l. ‘
2.
3.

 

 

 

 

 

 

To the best of your knowledge and belief, haveyou or any person listed above A

, ever had high or low blood pressure, heart trouble, diabetes cancer arthritis

1

or tuberculosrs or have you or they, within the last five years, been disabled by

either accident or illness, had medical advice or treatment, taken medication -

for any condition, or been advised to have a surgical operation?
Yes_____ No

 

If so, give details stating person affected, cause, date, name and address ‘of

attending physician and whether fully recovered: .

 

 

 

Neither I nor any other_ person listed above uses alcoholic beverages, and I
hereby do apply for _a policy with the understanding that the, policy will not cover
any conditions exrsting prior to the issue date, and that it shall be issued solely
and entirely In reliance upon the written answers to the above questions.

   
   
 
 

Data-X Signed: x
FORM GS 713 3

 

 

 

  

 

.If you pay

The Gold Star Plan
Monthly

is underwritten by
the following lead-
} ing companies (de~
.-‘ pending upon your
5 State of residence):

 
  
  

 

   

 

 
 

j Each adult age
§ 65-100 pays 6-

      

 

  

Old Securitylifo
Insurance Co.
Kansas City, Mo.

Each child age 1
and under pays

    
  
 

 

World Mutual
Health & Accident
Ins. Co. of Pa.
King of
Prussia, Pa.

 
  

 

MAlL THlS
A9PUCAUON

* gm; :3”) DE moss ASSOCIATES, mo. 32%?”

' R o COUPON o .I

0Assuns Youn PRoncnou

  

HERE '8
ALL
YOU DO:

 

This is the same

GOLD STAR PLAN‘

as offered in over 200
other leading publications
including the following:

McCalls

‘ Readers Digest

Together

Woman’s Day

 

 

 




ns

 

 

 

 

EGEND HAS it that the ostrich

buries his head in the sand

when he’s scared. . . believing
he can’t be seen if he can’t see! But
the truth is, the ostrich doesn’t dig
in at all . . . he just bends down to
eat.
And he’ll eat anything from a bul-
let to a tennis ball! Visitors to
South Africa’s ostrich farms have to
hide shiny objeCts—watches, rings,
eyeglasses—and bright-colored scarfs
and buttons— ’cause Mr. Ostrich
will go for ’em. The ostrich is a
vegetarian—or perhaps a “miner-
alogist.” For he washes down his
meals with stones...to aid diges-
tion!

A grown male stands 8 feet tall
and weighs 300 pounds. If you are
ever pursued by an angry ostrich
(you should be prepared! Life is
full of surprises) ,lie down. Don’t
move. The bird may peck at you.
Move just one muscle. . . and you’ll
have those 300 pounds jumping, up
and down on your back!

An ostrich can roar like a lion—
outrun a horse—and store water for
months like a camel. On the sandy
plains of Africa, he runs with herds
of zebras and antelopes.

Ostriches have been clocked do-
ing 50 mph...in 28-foot strides.
But such speed can be fatal. Prop-
erly subduced and saddled ,an ostrich
can carry a full-grown man!

The bird’s legs bend forward. The
smaller toe on an ostrich’s foot is

BY SUSAN STACY

    

nailless now. . . and disappearing in
new generations. He used to have
ﬁve toes on each foot!

Each wing of the adult male os-
trich produces 24 top-grade white
plumes, much in demand by, milli-
ners and costume designers in fashion
centers of the world. Theatrical pro-
ducers are steady customers. The big-
gest supplier of ﬁne ostrich plumes
is South Africa.

It’s good the bird has “money in
his wings” because they’re not good
for much else. This largest of living
birds—can’t ﬂy! An ostrich’s wings
maintain his balance when he starts
running. . . help him execute light-
ningafast turns...and are ﬂattened
to his sides for streamliner speed.

The birds breed three times a
year. .Males will ﬁght ﬁercely over
their choice of a harem. Tourists at
the Highgate Ostrich Farm in
Oudtshoon, South Africa, never tire
of describing the “courting waltz”
of the birds.

A male puffs out his long neck,
ﬂuffs his feathers and trips about
daintily on his toes. He runs off at
great speed, stops abruptly and spins
until dizzy! Then he ﬂops down on
the ground. The wings are spread
like two magniﬁcent fans, and alter-
nately waved backward and forward,
while the head and neck slither in
serpentine grace.

Putting yourself ‘in the place of a
lady ostrich . . . you would respond
to this display with a dainty two-

  

 




step of your own. And from a throat
that is usually voiceless. . . you would
produce a faint clatter like castanets.

Nests aren’t built... they’re kick-
ed into shape by Papa Bird. Each
‘ hen may lay 16 eggs in one nest.
§,. The speckled brown mothers take
i? 1 turns sitting on the nest in the day-
_‘ ' l tion of their brood. At night, the
1 g! coal-black father babysits. He
V stretches his long neck forward, head
resting on the ground. To a passing
beast—out egg-hunting—the huge
feathery body looks no more worth
investigating than a mound of earth!
. After six weeks of incubation, the
chicks break out of their own shells.

‘ Their delicate brown fuzz is soon
replaced by wiry feathers. When
hungry, the baby ostrich will merrily
chase bugs. . . and gobble pebbles
for a chaser!

An ostrich egg weighs about three
pounds. If it isn’t destined for in-
cubation, it makes good eating. Al-
low an hour’s boiling time, add a
dash of salt, and you—and 11 other
gourmets—can polish off the egg in.
no time! Its contents acrually meas-
ure about the same as 24 chicken
eggs. Chopped ostrich eggs are in-
cluded in the scientiﬁc feeding of
baby ostriches . . . so they must be
nourishing!

‘ Plume harvesting at the South
Africa ostrich farm provides many
eye-openers for visitors.

Feathers are clipped every nine
months. . . even from the youngest
birds. The yield ranges from stiff
grey feathers to foaming white
plumes . . . with middle grades of
shiny black and soft brown. Pluck-
ing is painless. The feathers are
aetually clipped, nor pulled. For Mr.
0, it’s like having a haircut.

And when the ostrich Struts from

52

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

the plucking pen . . . you’ll see why
ancient writers call the bird “the
camel sparrow”—for underneath
that wealth of plumage the ostrich
is a scrawny fellow. Much of his
weight is concentrated in those mas-
sive bare thighs.

The growing male must endure
two years of anguish. . .as he looks
like a “girl” until he’s three years
old. Then his grayish-grown plumes
darken. At the four-year mark, he
becomes ebony black. Ostriches can
—but rarely do—live to the age

of 40.

Ostrich skin is so thick it rates
as a hide. Wallets, purses and shoes
of. distinction display the curious
grain of ostrich skin. A healthy car-
cass yields a quantity of soft yellow

fat. . . ideal for oiling guns, saddles,
b00ts, harness.

South African ostrich farm visitors
are invited to dine on “biltong”——
dried ostrich meat. A delicious soup
can be made from the thigh meat
. . . or the gargantuan drumsticks can
be slowly roasted. The ﬂavor’s like
that of wild turkey.

But rising above mere utility, the
ostrich wil lalways be a glamour bird.
His plumes are his trademark...
they justify his existence. And as
long as ladies from London to Las
Vegas demand the luxury of “os-
trich plum-es, please! ”—South Africa
will go on breeding the spectacular
birds.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PET DIGEST

FUCK, A Wire-Hair
hy Pamela H arnett

He doesn’t sit up and he doesn’t
play dead

And he can’t halance crachers on
his head;

He prowls at night and sleeps at day

And when I’m tired, he wants to
Play;

At early dawn he mahes a jump

And lands on my “tum” with a
‘sichening plump;

He tears my stockings with sharp
little claws

Lear/es prints on the rug from muddy
paws;

And I guess there isn’t a single day

That I don’t threaten to give him
away;

But when I’m lonely, a little chap

‘ Is always curled up in my lap

A moist red tongue caresses my
hand,

Two warm hrown eyes say “1 un-
derstand,”

0h he’s quite cock-sure that my
threats are nil

This mischievous, louahle, Puch of
Puchshill/

little Kittens
My little kittens
balls

and stalk their prey on soundless
rosebud-pads.

Their shadows, ﬂickering up and
down the walls

Sﬁ

play with catnip-

create a jungle full of bigger cats.

Tigers in the cup-boards
Tigers on the chair,
Tigers in the kitchensink,
Tigers everywhere!

But little kittens tire very soon

and for a while they wash their
ears and purr, _

their lids descend like clouds before
the moon,
they curl up and wouldn’t even
stir.

Kittens in the cup-boards,
Kittens in the chair,
Kittens in the kitchensink,
Little balls of fur.
Alice Wernherr

TO ERR

(He sits and glares
\Vith eyes so wide)
For what error

Do you chide?

I dropped my book—
Was that it?

( It woke him up
When it hit.)

A thousand pardons,
Dozing cat!

(I guess I'should have
thought of that).

Oh—You’ll forgive?
How very nice!
(And he returns to
Dreams of mice).

 




made possible by the

INSTITUTE FOR HUMAN-ANIMAL" RELATIONSHIP, INC.
(a non-profit membership corporation, chartered
under the laws of the‘District of Columbia,
,Was‘hington, D. C.)

aT-‘he Institute for Human-Animal Relationship, Inc. is
making important progress :with a completely new concept——
namely, the use of pets as a means of therapy for under-
pf’ivileged" and handicapped people. One of the many func- '
tions of The Institute is to place a pet in the hearts and
homes of peeple in need. This cause cannot be ignored.

For information write! to:
3

Institute for Human-Animal Relationship, Inc.
734 Fifteenth Street, N. W.
Washington 5, D.C.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CARLTON “HEAR HOW” S’ERIES/CHH 24

 

HEAR HOW TO
TRAIN YOUR DOG

 

MRS. lEE DUNGAN, owner-trainer of Rin-Tin-Tin,

gives valuable pointers for dog training.

Do you have a dog? Or are you thinking about getting one?
If you answer “yes" to either question, this record is meant
for you. It tells you, simply and easily, how to have a dog
who’ll be a source of pleasure, not a nuisance—a pet, not
a pest.

Your instructor is Mrs. Lee Duncan, widow of the man who
discovered and trained the first Rin Tin Tin and all the Rin
Tin Tins which followed. Mrs. Duncan has been associated
with dog training work for many years, and is recognized as
a leading authority in the field.

Of course, your own dog won’t be a Rin Tin Tin when you’re
through putting into practice the suggestions Mrs. Duncan
makes here. But your dog will be a well-behaved animal,
fun to have around the house, if you follow Mrs. Duncan's
advice.

Side 1
. INTRODUCTION

mhpr—a

SELECTING A PUPPY

THE DOG AT HOME
CORRECTION—NOT PUNISHMENT
HOUSEBREAKING

This is all sensible, time-tested and dog-proved advice, too.

Mrs. Duncan starts with tips on what kind of a dog to buy,
and proceeds from there. She tells you how to treat the new
dog, how to break it to a leash, how to housebreak it, how
to keep it from barking too much—and on up to simple and
then more difficult commands.

You’ll hear exactly how to voice commands, what intonation
to use when you want your dog to “sit" or “stay" or obey
other instructions.

This is a record for everyone who has a dog—or is thinking
about getting one—to keep close at hand. If you follow Mrs.
Duncan’s advice, you'll get more pleasure out of your dog.
because the dog will be well-behaved and a joy to own.

Side 2

.
ii?

 

   

1. GOOD AND BAD MANNERS
2. LEARNING TO PLAY
recommended by 2. ngwjgoLéggsm THE COLLAR AND LEASH
l PET DIGEST 5. SIT-STAY AND DOWN-STAY
48%,,“ was 6. TEACHING YOUR PUPPY SIMPLE TRICKS
l TISEDT

56

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

COMMITTEE
FOR PETS

BY HEDY WHITE

Every humanitarian and prac-
tically every social worker and psy-
chiatrist advocates pets for children.
They go together like ham and eggs.
These trained and learned people
know that the best way to combat
the scourge of juvenile delinquency
is to give kids responsibility. Taking
care of a pet is almost a perfect way.
And reciprocal love between young-
ster and pet, has always been inspir-
ing.

. Yet, with this irrefutable informa-
tion, the housing authorities in the
great City of New York do not per-
[1111: pets in public housing. Little
Johnny or Mary is denied the pleasure
anderivilege of sharing their youth-
ful joy with the romping of a dog or
the beautiful companionship that a
cat gives. I believe it was Mark
Twain who said, “no house can be
called a home without a cat in it.”

And what about our senior citizens
who live in a project under the sup-
ervision of the Public Housing Ad-
mininstration? These geriatrics are
arbitrarily deprived of the joys of the
companionship of a pet. And oft-
times this is the evening of life when
the terrible pangs of lonesomeness
can .be alleviated by the warm com-
panionship of a pet. But the Hous-
lng Authorities. put their f00t down
on any pets for tenants in public
housrng. Why?

That is the reason for the birth of
the COMMITTEE FOR PETS IN
METROPOLITAN H O U S I N G .

outstanding humanitarian work in

 

the ﬁeld of animal welfare is note-
worthy, and in conjunction with
Headed by Dr. Jack Lebish, whose
George Winter, attorney for the Na-
tional Association of the Pet Indus-
try, and Harry Miller, head of Gaines.
Dog Research Center, and supple-
mented by a committee of humani-
tarians such as Dr. Sidney Schiff,
Audrey Kane, Dr. Robert Altman,
Mrs. Jay Winter, Dr. David Law-
rence, Dean White, Dr. Regenbogen,
Fannie Hurst, and scores of other
leading devoted humanitarians, the
Committee For Pets In Metropolitan
Housing is actively endeavoring to
ave this unfair law changed.

Only recently a partially paralyzed
person using a wheel chair as his
only means of navigating was sum-
moned to court to be dispossessed
for the outrageous crime of posses-
sing an altered cat that never leaves
his apartment. How cruel can one be
in the name of the law?

As this article goes to Press the
Committee For Pets In Metropolitan
Housing is fighting this unjust treat-
ment in the courts now.

Humanitarian organizations such
as the Institute For Human-Animal
Relationship, Inc. and the National
Association of the Pet Industry is
lending their full support to the
Committee For Pets In Metropolitan
Housing.

57

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

vasomonouowcoxo

§

§ HOSPITAL READING SOCIETY

§ Organized 1874

- THE HOSPITAL READING SOCIETY, an organization which has 84
vears of continuous service under varying names, has brought comfort,
diversion and instruction to people out of touch with the world. This has
been done through the collection and distribution of reading material to
the sick, indigent and aged; to Prisons, Penitentiaries, isolated Schools,
and even to foreign-speaking peoples in hospitals.

The Society is supported by voluntary contributions and your participa-
tion will help us to continue this important work.

Contributions are greatly needed and are deductible for tax purposes.

Donations May Be Sent To:

HOSPITAL READING SOCIETY

UNITED CHARITIES BUILDING
Room 522
105 East 22nd Street
New York 10, N. Y.

Telephone: GRamercy 5-1324

“@WWWWWW'

oncomawconow .

 

EMPLOYERS WANTED!

ESTABLISHED AND PROFESSIONALLY STAFFED VOCATIONAL
SERVICE SEEKS 1,000 NEW EMPLOYER ACCOUNTS. WORKERS
AVAILABLE FULL TIME AND PART TIME FOR ALL OCCUPATIONS.

Among Others, Mature And Physically

Handicapped, But Not Job Handicapped,
Workers On File — At Your Service

FEDERATION EMPLOYMENT AND GUIDANCE SERVICE
Telephone: ORegon 9-4900
42 East 41 st Street, New York 17, New York

A Free Placement Service Serving
Business Since 1934

 

 

38

 




 

 

 

FATHER & SON

METROPOLITAN NEW YORK ONLY

of

b, {X

TAKEN in your HOME

COLOR or BLACK & WHITE

DEfender 5-4017
Evenings & Weekends

RAI
PI

§

CEILING ZERO

 

 

 

 

PLAYTIME CATTERY REG.

Chinchilla and Shaded Silver Persians
SHOW STOCK FOR SALE
Cats and Kittens
MRS. REID COPELAND
24 ELGIN ST" ROCHESTER, N. Y.

 

 

DOG FANCIERS
LUNCHEON CLUB

Headquarters:
Luchow’s Restaurant
110 East 14th St., New York City
Meets 3rd Wednesday of every
month at noon

Chairman, HARRY MILLER

 

 

 

 

CLIFF’S WORM FARM

Box 104 . Carmel, N. Y.
PET’S — HOUSE PLANTS —- FISHING
75 cents WILL BRING SAMPLE

 

 

 

OVVI’ICI'I

 

CH. AENNCHEN’S SHIKAR
DANCER

breeders:

Unretouched photo; a Champion
at 8 months.

MRS. JOANNE HESSE
Mr. & Mrs. J. P. Antonelli

 

 

 

 

59

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Why Should A Child Have A Pet?

BY JOHN GRAHAME

AST YEAR, Donnie’s plaintive
Lwhine—“But I have nOthing to

do”——seemed to echo through
his house. His older brother was
always busy somehow, with school,
or friends, or playing ball. His lit-
tle sister was too young, too much
attached to her mother still to play
the kind of games Donnie needed.
And so Donnie drifted from acute
boredom to a vague loneliness.

How nice it would be, his parents
thought, if he could have a com-
panion to share his dreams, his se-
crets in the child’s world that adults
——even parents—cannot enter! For
Donnie, as for thousands of children,
a pet proved to be the answer.

A pet may be obtained from sev-
eral sources; pet shops, kennels, hu-
mane societies and shelters, or
through advertisements in news-
papers and magazines devoted to
pets. Donnie’s parents went to
their local kennel where Donnie and
a honey-colored cocker spaniel be-

60

came fast friends at ﬁrst glance.
Although the dog had been ex-
amined carefully at the kennel, Don-
nie’s father took him to their local
veterinarian, soon after he swa
brought home, for a thorough check-
up. This early examination is most
important since it will reveal the
early stages of any infectious diseases
which may otherwise go unnoticed
or undetected by a layman. Regular
subsequent examinations by a vet-
erinarian are strongly recommended.
To Donnie, getting a dog was the
beginning of a more meaningful
happier time than he had ever
known. According to Parents With-
out Partners, 80 Fifth Avenue, N. Y.
11, N. Y., an educational organiza-
tion dev0ted to the interests of
single parents and their children,
“The value of a pet cannot be over-
estimated in a child’s life. For a pet
receives and returns affeCtion. A
child can conﬁde in a pet, love him,
roughhouse with him, stroke him

 




 

gently—express all the various emo-
tions a youngster feels, without fear,
without shyness or embarrassment.”

The members of Parents Without
Partners are all parents made single
by death, divorce or separation—all
concerned with the physical and
emotional well-being of their chil—
dren. Through their monthly meet-
ings, discussion groups, counselling
facilities and extensive research, they
have come to a clearer understanding
of the needs of all children. In a
recent article in their monthly Jour-
nal, they point out:

“So often, a child may feel real
or imaginary injustices inﬂicted
upon him by an adult world—ex-
clusion, punishment, discipline, lack
of understanding. How comforting
it is to have a pet—a friend—to
pour his heart out to, who will listen
without comment, whom you can
hug to ﬁnd consolation and solace.”

It is true that adults don’t always
have time to listen to a child’s ex-
cited babbling about all the many dis-
coveries which growing up holds for
youngsters. But a cat or dog, some-
how, always has time to listen. Isn’t
that a wonderful reassurance?

Growing up also means, for a
child, learning a sense of responsi-
bility. Here again, a pet can be in-
valuable. From the very beginning,
Donnie had to assume the responsi
bility for his dog’s health and wel-
fare. H ehad to learn how to handle
his.pet, how to feed ,groom ,and ex-
ercrse it. From this, he also learned
something about good health habits,
of nutrition, of the body’s sleeping
requirements. There was a time, of
course — fortunately brief — when
Donnie tried to gear his own eating

and sleeping habits to those of his
pet.

 

According to Parents Without
Partners, there is another tremendous
advantage to owning a pet. “With a
pet, a child becomes aware that an-
Other living being is dependent upon
him. How proud he can feel when
he realizes he has assumed this re-
sponsibility for another’s life and
well being—and has done well!”

Pride entered into the picture, too,
when Donnie was able to show his
dog off to his friends. And when
his pet had mastered a new trick
which Donnie had painstakingly
taught him, Donnie’s joy was bound-
less. For Donnie, there was constant
delight in the new achievements
which his pet could display. And
for Donnie’s parents, there was the
constant delight in Donnie’s achieve-
ments in grOWth and responsibility.

Most of all, for everyone in the
family, there is the fun. For all the
children in Donnie’s family, there
was the fun of romping with the
dog, the fun of playing games with
it, the fun of laughing at all the
antics which only animals are cap-
able of. A pet quickly becomes an
integral part of the family, whose
unique personality is seen respected
and enjoyed.

In retrospect, Donnie’s parents are
thoroughly pleased by their decision
to get a dog for their son. “We Just
can’t imagine being without him
now,” said Donnie’s mother. And
for Donnie—as for all children—his
dog very soon became not only a
pet, but a genuine friend, with all
the binding, intangible attributes of
love and need and warmth which are
the core of all friendships.

61

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

i

Colonel Edmund M. Rowan (seated), recently appointed ASPCA
Director of Humane Work, discusses a case with Special Agent William
Ryan and Helen E. Hoey, Assistant to the Director. Agent Ryan, who
rounded out 50 years of continuous service to the ASPCA, will serve
as Training Instructor in the enlarged Humane Work Department.

Anti-Cruelty Program Expanded

BY JANICE PAPRIN

Prevention of Cruelty to Ani-

mals has announced a pro-
gram to expand its anti-cruelty and
investigatory programs.

Colonel Edmund M. Rowan, who
is retiring as Commanding Ofﬁcer
of Fort Wadsworth, Staten Island,
has been named DireCtor of Humane
Work to head the enlarged depart-
ment which handles these activities.

62

7 l ‘HE AMERICAN SOCIETY for the

Col. Rowan will assume ofﬁce around
April 1, when his retirement process
is expected to be complete.

Helen E. Hoey, formerly As-
sistant to the Brooklyn District Man-
ager, has been named Assistant to
the Director.

In addition, William Ryan, Special
Agent No. 1, who has rounded
out 50 years of continuous service to
the ASPCA, will serve as Training

 




 

Instructor in the department, with
particular attention to new members
of the Humane Work stall.

The roster of uniformed Special
Agents, who perform inspections and
investigations, will be brought up to
13 or 14 when several vacancies are
ﬁlled and additional agents are hired.

Col. Rowan is a West Point grad-
uate, class of ’32, and holder of
many decorations for his distin-
guished war service, including the
Bronze Star, Legion of Merit and
Croix de Guerre. He has worked
with horses for many years, and is
a graduate of the Army’s advanced
equitation program.

The new executive joins the
ASPCA with stature equivalent to
that of four directors appointed in
1960, when other departments were
reorganized. They are Arthur L.
Amundsen, DireCtor of Operations;
June Eliot, Director of Public Rela-
tions, Fund Raising and Humane
Education; Thomas A. Fegan, Comp-
troller; and Dr. John E. Whitehead,
Director of Hospital and Clinic.

The ASPCA, with headquarters at
441 East 92nd Street, New York, has

jurisdiction throughout New York
State, but in pracrice m05t of its
work is performed in New York
City and environs.

Special Agents investigate cruelty
cases and prosecute extreme cases in
court. More than 5,000 cases were
investigated last year. To prevent
cruelty, agents last year also made
more than 8,000 inspections of pet
shops, stables, rodeos, circuses and
other places where animals are kept
in numbers.

The department covers horse
shows in New York State within 65
miles of Manhattan and metropolitan
race tracks. It operates two horse
watering trucks and two horse am-
bulances.

In announcing the reorganization,
the ASPCA Board of Managers
pointed up the fact that humane
work is one of the cornerstones of
the Society. Preventing cruelty has
always been one of its. primary ob-
jectives, and with these changes the
organization hopes to place even
more emphasis on this vital phase of
its work.

“How can you tell if an ortricb 1?; male or female.”
“T/oat’r eary. Tell it a joke. If he laag/ar, if: a male. If Ike laugh!)

it"! a female.”

“I hear your wife lea: Jola’ leer parrot.”

“Yes.”

:I’m Jar-prised. I t/ooag/Jt Me was WW fond of t/o e kiwi.”
She was, wall it learnea’ alwayr to leave t/oe ldl‘t word.

6‘ 9 .
SlJeJ as bad a: a parrot.”

‘6 q
She’s even worre. A parrot a’oem'l [Oﬂﬁi you up and force you

to listen.”

CC . .
“I’m 8W 150 meet yoa,” yard the Hamlet.
C/W'mal, I’m sure,” raid the make.

65

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FROM

OUR
GRIEF

64

BY LILLIAN PALMER

(PET DIGEST bad in type an
article entitled “Reggie and tloe
Britiyli”, which load to be taken out
on ncconnt of the following happen-
ing. T/oir is being printed in the
hope t/oat no one elre will have to
rnffer, needlerrly, a; we loan/e Inf-
feted.)

To the Manager

of an airline:

My husband and I are heart-
broken people tonight as I write
this. I think you should know the
Situation.

Our beautiful fawn and white
English Bulldog, “Sir Reginald”, or
“Reggie”, is to be buried tomorrow.
He was just short of nine months of
age and already the darling of two
continents. When he appeared in
his little turtle-necked sweaters in
chilly weather, trafﬁc and business

 




 

stopped. One was blue, the other
yellow. I just ﬁnished locking them
away where I will not see them for
a long time.

At nine weeks of age he ﬂew
from his birthplace in California to
our Florida home, a present from
our daughter. He emerged frisky
and adorable to capture all our
hearts, including the family cat, be-
fore bedtime that night.

He always traveled with me, and
always by air. Sometimes I could
have him at my seat where whole
planeloads of people oohed and
aahed and wanted to know a hun-
dred different things about him. At
leaSt that many times, people re-
marked, “You know, I never saw

a baby English Bulldog before”.

Most recently I had been spend-
ing some time at my home on Ele-u-
thera in the Bahamas (a short trip
from Florida, being only sixty miles
east of Nassau). On the trip home
yesterday he rode with me from
Eleuthe-ra to Nassau on leash. He
played with children, whom he
loved, in the terminal.

On the Nassau-U. S. leg of the
journey I was told I would have to
put him in his travel case. As the
plane was. being loaded with bag-
gage I received special permission
and ran out on the ﬁeld to make
sure he was being placed in a

pressurized part of the ship. I
talked with him a moment; then
saw him loaded aboard. He had
taken his dog tranquilizer as usual,
and should have slept through the
trip, as usual. Takeoff was delayed
forty-ﬁve minutes; but I had no
fears about him. He had ﬂown
thousands of miles and always
emerged sportive as ever. He loved
to travel and meet (and conquer)
new people.

When he was unloaded and
brought to me, I opened the case,
leash in hand, only to exclaim “Oh
Dear God”! He was in a state of
total collapse, tongue nearly black,
totally unconscious.

We applied immediate remedies
and raced to our veterinarian who
worked over him for many hours;
only to lose him to shock and heat
prostration. Dr. Sharpe loved him,
too. It was one of the hardest things
he ever had to do, when he told us.
In that baggage compartment our
Reggie had literally steeped in his
own juices. He never had a chance.

This is to beg you, on behalf of
other pet owners, to make an in-
vestigation of this method of trans-
porting animals, so that our be-autif
ful, loving Reggie will n0t have died

in vain.

 

 

 

 

WEST HIGHLAND WHITE TE’RRIERS
Westie Puppies. The Perfect
Pet For All The Family.

OSER KENNELS

14423 ST. RD. 14 WEST
Ft. Wayne, Ind. ARcola 5-3240

‘

 

 

DOG, PET OWNERS, SPORT 8. FISHERMEN

v E N
l TTENT|°N 233°n33315ﬁuﬁ 1'3tocxn .
. I TRAVEL-{Aft ROOM,
3 aOWIRfJ' fﬂU/IK fa GUARANTEED a.

Incision Built to Fit most
cars 1950-1959 . . . from $3.65

    

 

65'

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

IN

DO LOOK A
GIFT HORSE
THE MOUTH

\ ‘ BY MARJORIE FARNHAM SCHRODY

N FACT, look him over thoroughly,
I and see him under all conditions

possible. There is no use in ac-
quiring a horse—even with no initial
expense—that will run up fantastic
veterinary bills, be unsafe to ride and
a problem to keep. Naturally the
free horse is rarely the perfect horse,
comformation-wise, and things like
a back that is too long, or a neck
that is too short, have to be over-
looked. The main points to consider
are health and temperament. If both
are reasonably good—take him!

Here are a few of the more im-
portant things to look for and con-
sider.

From #26 Ground—Can he be sad-
dled and bridled (or harnessed)
with ease. ..or is he head-shy, or a
belly-puffer. Can you groom him
(belly too) without it developing
into a pushing contest? Does he
Kick? Nip? Does he think stalls
were made for him to destroy? Can

you lift up his feet with a minimum
of trouble?

66

Mounted—Try him out. Does he
ride well...that is, easy gaits and
gaiting, no shying out, no tug-of—war
with the bit, no stumbling, rearing,
kicking or ﬁghting? Is he control-
lable? Or does he break into a gal-
lop and refuse to go any slower un-
til you reach the barn or pasture.

Healtbwz'ye—Before the ride, look
him over for sores, swellings any-
where, runny eyes, colored or thick
nasal discharge. Check that he has
full sight. Are his teeth in good
shape for his age (no abcesses or
broken ones)? Is he in goo-d condi-
tion? While riding him does he
bob his head, limp, or hang out his
tongue? Does he puff and blow and
groan while cantering? After the
ride—it wasa short one, but is he
gasping or wheezing? Is he sweated
up or too overheated? Is his head
hanging? Check his ankles for swel-
lings.

If he can measure up, you are now
in the great fraternity of horse-own-

ers. Have fun!

 




 

 

SMITH BASSET HOUND KENNEIS

Oldest Importers and Pioneer Breeders

FINE HUNTERS. LOVELY PETS. PUPS, HUNTERS, BROOD
MATRONS. SMITH’S YANKEE LAD II, and BELBAY
HERITAGE, at STUD.

PICTURE FOLDER, INFORMATION SKETCH, SALES LIST

0%

recommended I:

PET DIGEST

SMITH BASSET HOUND KENNELS

ROUTE 6, KREPPS ROAD, XENIA, OHIO — DR 2-3804

   
   
 

25c —- 28 BASSET PICTURES, 50c.

 

 

Employ The Handicapped

 

 

HUMANE BIOLOGY PROJECTS
A New Teaching Aid

The Animal Welfare Institute has prepared a new 44-page illus-
trated manual for high school teachers, which is now available upon
request from the Institute. .

Entitled “HUMANE BIOLOGY PROJECTS,” it was prepared With
the assistance of research scientists and educators and contains over
100 experiments and demonstrations for teaching and helping students
with their Science Fair projects. With sections on Animal BehaVior,
Bacteriology, Genetics, Physiology, Ecology and Conservation, it sug-
gests a few of the myriad humane methods which may be_ used to
teach high school biology. It is designed to aid the teacher in devel-
oping in his students original thinking, painstaking observation,
understanding of scientiﬁc procedures and respect for the rights and
feelings of all forms of life which possess sensibility. . .

Single copies are available without charge to teachers, librarians
and Others who work in the educational ﬁeld; others may purchase
it at cost, 25¢. _

Persons who would like to receive a copy of this manual write to
the Animal Welfare Institute, 22 East 17th Street, New York 5, N. Y.

 

 

 

67

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CHILDREN AND PE TS
ONE B 0 Y ’S VIE WPOIN T

(A5“ 2‘0ch t0 Gretcbm White)

 

 

name is Orrin. Orrin?, you’re

probably snickering—well go
ahead and snicker. I don’t like it
very much either. I also happen to
be twelve-years-old—just in case
you’re interested. Everyone says I
look younger but I say I act older.
I’d probably let what everyone says
about me, bother me—if I was sensi-
tive. As a matter of fact it does b0ther
me. You’re probably wondering
what everybody is saying about me
anyway. Well go ahead and wonder;
I’ll never tell. I live home with my
kitten and my mother. My mother
calls her a mangy old cat. Maybe it
is a little mangy but I like it any-
way. Actually I might like it better
than I do my mother—jusvt to give
you an idea of how much I like that
kitten.

Sometimes I sneak down to the cel-
lar after dark and give it milk. It
really appreciates my little bit of
altruism. Altruism is one of my
favorite words. I don’t know what
the hell it means but neither does
anyone else and it sure sounds smart.
I often use ﬁctitious words. I don’t
know What fictitious means either
but I always hear my cousin, who
goes to college, use it. He uses. a lot
of adult words that I never heard be-

: s A MATTER of introduction, my

68

fore. Some of my favorites are
sensual, intergration and frustrate.
He always uses that last one. If I
knew how t ospell it, I’d look it up
in the dictionary. Sometimes when
I can’t think of a big word I make
one up. No one knows the difference
anyway or if they do, won’t admit it.
Sometimes I make up a word, pre-
tending that the word is the punch
line of a joke. Everyone laughs like
crazy; so do I, though not for the
same reason.

What I’d really like to do is sub-
stitute a made up word for my name.
Orrin doesn’t sound like a name any-
way. Personally I think it sounds
more like a verb than anything.
Frankly, which do you think sounds
better?

“Orrin goes ﬁshing in the lake.”

or

“Fish go Orrining in the lake.”

Now I guess you can see my er-
russive point. (By the way, I made
up that last word in case you felt
stupid or something). Pretty clever
for a twelve-year-old man—don’t
you think?

I don’t mean to be insulting, but I
think I want to visit my kitten
friend. There’s one friend I never
have to impress. Maybe that’s why
she’s a kitten instead of a human.

 




 

 

 

Help the

 

Disabled
Help Themselves
GIVE TO

ffﬂfﬂﬂllﬂﬂe 0f HIE ﬂﬂﬂﬂltﬂPPw

2" WES? IAI’I STREH 0 NEW YORK 11. N. Y.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PET PHOTOGRAPHER

   

 

. PERSONALITY PORTRAITS OF PETS

. PHOTOS I=OR KENNELS AND CATTERIES .

. PHOTOS TO ILLUSTRATE ARTICLES FOR AUTHORS Fantasy
. PET PHOTOGRAPHY ARTICLES FOR MAGAZINES and

- PHOTOS FOR ADVERTISING Re“'“’"
C

SERVICES AVAILABLE FOR PET SHOWS

  

Write

SAL CELESKI
2609 Dorian
Boise, Idaho

“Chimp“ W

69

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Pleased Meows May Lead
To New Cat Food Treats

BY THOMAS READING

HEN IT COMES t0 chow, cats

00 aren’t going to the dogs, the

second annual convention of
the Pet Food Institute learned today.
In fact, the felines’ feeding fancies
are getting more loving attention
than ever.

For one thing, it’s been discovered
that jusr as people like to splurge on
a steak, so do their feline friends
love digging into special treats oc-
casionally. Something like a choice
serving of canned all-tuna red meat

70

will make a fine change from regular
balanced diets, it was reported.

For another, cats apparently de-
velop just as noticeable likes and dis-
likes about food as do people. Like
children especially, they generally
won’t eat what they don’t like.

These facts about cats were among
several reported to an institute
luncheon-meeting at the Drake Ho-
tel by J. H. Sunley, New York, di-
rector of market research for Ameri-
can Can Company’s Canco market-

 




 

ing division. He presented the re-
sults of a company study based on
actual taste tests of canned foods by
cats and interviews with their own-
ers.

'Respond Affectionately’

Sunley told the pet people that
an important revelation of the study
is the extent to which Tabby calls
the tune when it comes to feeding.
Because a “happy meow” can be
music to a cat-owner’s ears, the cats
themselves may be inspiring a big
new business, he said. This would
be the production of premium-priced
foods for supplemental or “special
treat” feedings.

“Cat owners have found that cats
enjoy an occasional change from
their regular nutritionally balanced
diets and respond affectionately to
special food treats,” Sunley said.
“Owners also believe that a different
food now and then probably bene-
ﬁts the cat, providing extra food
values nor ordinarily contained in
normal rations.”

Most of the owners of cats that
participated in taste-tests of canned
supplemental foods said they would
buy them if available, said Sunley.

. “Why? Simply because the cats
iikEd them so well,” he reported.
This was the main reason given by
most of the owners.”

In the taste tests, involving more
than 550 cats, dishes of a supple-
mental food were set side-by-side
With dishes of regular “steady-diet”
canned food.

Turned To The Tuna

(C
In a test of red tuna, 85 per cent
of the cats turned to the tuna ﬁrst,
and most of them ate it all up,” said

Sunley. “In another test of a canned
all-mackerel product, 74 per cent of
the cats tasted the mackerel ﬁrst, and
the majority cleaned their plates.”

Sunley said the size of the po-
entially large market for “treat”
foods was indicated by feeding
habits of the cats surveyed. Owners
fed their cats a “normal diet” food
at 70 per cent of their meals, and
relied heavily on the canned ﬁsh—or
meat-base formulate-d foods for these
feedings. At 30 per cent of the
meals, however, some other food was
served, including different canned
foods, fresh meat, ﬁsh or poultry, dry
meal and other foods.

It is in this group of 30 per cent
of all meals that the potential is
greatesr for premium-priced “treat
foods,” said Sunley.

The Canco ofﬁcial also reported
that the average cat eats 753 meals
annually. Of individual servings, 74
per cent are canned, 22 per cent
fresh, 3 per cent dry and one per
cent miscellaneous. Types and
brands of food purchased are dic-
tated primarily “by whether the cat
itself will eat and enjoy” the selec-
tion, he said. If the cat won’t eat
a particular type or brand of food,
the owner usually changes to some-
thing else.

What kind of cats were surveyed?
Mosr of them were described by
their owners as “common cats,” said
Sunley. A fourth were “part breed”
and 18 per cent pure breed. The
survey was conducted on the West
Coast, he added, because of the
availability for testing there of a
newer tuna supplement food.

71

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Panther Black and Tiger Red

BY FRANCES MARION

ANTHER BLACK AND TIGER RED
P are two more kittys crowding

my one room apartment. Don’t
ask me why I take in every stray
kitty that crosses my path. Don’t
ask me why—because I don’t really
know why myself.

Maybe it’s because I know that
somewhere—somewhere there is a
home waiting for them. A home
where a lonely lady—one who has
lost all her loved ones—and is fac-
ing life alone; or an invalid would
be confronted by the companionship
of little waifs such as Panther Black
and Tiger Red.

And then again there is no may-
be. There is no maybe because I
know that somewhere, somewhere in
Los Angeles an invalid suffers from
many lonely hours. Lonely hours
when the people they love and who
loves them are too busy working or
just to active to stay with them for
long.

Then it is—that kitty can ﬁll an
important part in the life of human-
ity. Then it is that the best part of
kittys nature comes out in the full.

Kitty—arrogant, independent kit-
ty, will eat with you—right there on
your bed, or on your wheel chair or
wherever you are. Then she will
rub her little body against your
hands, your legs and just purr her
little heart out. Then if you will let
her she will rub her little face
against yours and lick your nose,
your chin, your hand.

Yes, independent-arrogant kitty
72

turns into mush under the hands of
love. Honestly, from my own ex-
perience as an invalid, I can sin-
cerely say that I cannot think of a
better buddy for an invalid or lonely
adult than Kitty. Especially a stray
kitty.

I myself—have always preferred a
stray kitty because it needed me, and
an invalid needs the feeling of be-
ing needed.

Then too—I like the fact that I
have saved it from starvation and
death. Death in a gas chamber.
Then I think too that God may be
pleased at my showing a little of
His Mercy to His little helpless
bundle of life.

I guess that is the real reason
why I take in every stray kitty that
cries for a bite of food on my door-
step. I never shoo them away with a
broom, mostly because I know that
somewhere—somewhere in this
enormous state there is some invalid
—or some lonely adult who needs
kitty as much as kitty needs him.
For a very little material care, and
lots and lots of kindness and love,
kitty will give you twenty-four hours
chuckfull of comfort and companion-
ship.

SO—you there—in your wheel-
chair, in your bed or just plain alone
in the world—won’t you come or
call for Panther Black or Tiger Red
~two of the most affectionate kittys
I have ever had the pleasure of pick-
ing up~won’t you come and take
your little kitty home!!

 




 

:AM../N{.:.

yVO‘z‘I'gziﬁ‘ 3x ﬂ‘t’, , ,

 

 

M

c°"9.ressman Alfred E. Santangelo cutting the ribbon at the
°Pemn9 of The National Association of the Pet Industry (NAPI)
Trade Sh°w- Helping the Representative cut the ribbon for
2'6” are from left to right Sandra Baxter, famous model;
R'P" Murray, noted importer of exotic animals; Hedy White,
CO-editor of Pet Digest; Elizabeth DeVine actress-model for the
National Association of the Pet Industry (NAPI); Robe-rt Byron,
police dag trainer, with ”Sarge" famous police dog, who was
als° aPPOinted offiical greeter; and Dean White, with the
h°“.eY bears, around his neck, newly elected president of the
National Association of the Pet Industry (N‘API).

73

 

 




 

"Sarge,"

looks on.

 

 

 

 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   

   

famous police dog, signing the
National Association of the Pet Industry
(NAPI) petition for Congressman Santangelo,
while the editors of Pet Digest happily

  
    
 
    

Representative Alfred E. Santangelo, who
signed the first petition for NAPI in their
campaign for 100,000 signatures for Police
Dogs to protect the public, and the police-
man too; with Sandra Baxter and Elizabeth
DeVine, two of the talented models who
assisted in the NAPI Trade Show which
proved to be the largest attended exhibition
in the history of the Pet Industry.

 




 

 

 

 

Helping the National
, . Associatio f
Pemlon for ol' , n f’ the Pet lﬂdusfry ‘(NAPI‘ -
berg. Direct; he: :29; as protection for the public are froznolzatl: Mime: on "s famous
Whiie and James J Meam" Inc., maHUfacfurer of MY-OHMY V'f O.I'I9hf, Samuel Stein-
. cKeever and his champion‘ husky "Chalh:::rs;fog:n and Hedy
‘ Owe Crest.

  
   
  

 
 

1? $1313 E, WE; 3?:

Vi? fwd am . .Wfkfg
&'

  

   

QM MU. L

 

153,391,

A', . .
,1. , ~. diva/rm): t m n‘

Hedy White feed'
mg the not d h " '
a! the N ' . . e usky Cha'“ " w Y Y
aﬂonal Assocnatlon of the Pet Imalushf;Is (NAot’If'Toradee cgliitw’ M '0-M Vitamins

75

 

 

 




OPBELIA ,TR‘INCULO AND TROUBLE

MANAGERS ~1N-RESIDENCE
PROVINCETOWN PLAYI—IOUSE
GREENNICH VILLAGE

ANNOUNCE.-.

.. \‘5‘5 MACDOU'GAL $7:
NEW YORK 12...NY.

PRESEN'tArmon ox: TH 7/2.

LIGHT OPERA THEATRE
BY PRQVJN carrowN REPERTORY
IN 11‘: 301“ sEASON or comm 013mg

IGmBERTmp
s ULLI’VAN

UN DER THE: DIRECTION °f
JOHN F. GRAHAME AND
ALEXANDER MAISSEL

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Cid/7&3 dew:
WILLIAM RUTLEDGE, III

5228 IRVINE Avnsur. NORTH HOLLYWOOD, CALIFORNIA

 

76

 

 




 

@Léée’is'x‘a/ér HOME TREATMENT

cm?“ W ”0R5?-
”2:35.32; cam!» PRODUCTS wan; ‘ '
9 . H . .

 

 

,w

Dr. Donald W. Hey and his assistant, before their booth at the Na-
tional Association of the Pet Industry (NAPI) Trade Show exhibiting
Dr. Daniels products. Dr. Hey is president of this old and trusted com-

pany, established in 1878.
A\

 

WE LQlIE

DtQCRj MiNﬁIiNG Pgrs "

 

 

 

fr‘ 0 o
O
05 E W3 ”83" °

an
“>ng

 

 

 

 

 

  

¥(Thoma who appreciate fine printing)

OPRINCETON PRINTING COMPANY 176 ALEXANDER ST., PRINCETON. NJ

 

77

 

 




a Product of PET H

IF you (0V5 mun pH,

i
MY-O-MY VITAMINS IS THE COMPLETE WONDER VI'i’AE‘riai:I-£ AND MINERAL
FORMULA FORTIFIED WITH LIPOTROPIC FACTORS AND MIN E — FOR
YOUR FAVORITE D‘OG AND CAT. l
,

 

 

 

Years of research with Dogs and Cats from time of birth until they enter Animal [
Heaven is responsible for the creation of MY-O-MY VITAMINS — the best Vitamin
and Mineral formula that scientific knowledge, love of animals and human in-
genuity could produce — there is no better Vitamin for your Dog or Cat than _f
MY-O-MY VITAMINS.

REGULAR DAILY USAGE OF

MY-O-MY VITAMINS

WILL HELP CONTRIBUTE - :
TO YOUR DOG AND CAT recommended by

Sound Bones and Teeth— I PET ‘ DIGEST

o
o A Luxurious Healthy Coat-— ‘18 ' V I . 6‘“
. . an as“
o Nerve and Muscle Co-ordination— VERTISEDT ~
Resistance Against Infections and Illness—
Maintaining Vigorous Health—

78

 




PET DIGEST

4‘9 3““
~ 9»
“OVERTTSED 1“!“a

 

 

  
 
    

sou: AT ALL BETTER PET COUNTERS—IF YOUR STORE IS .
g SOLD OUT on CAN'T SUPPLY YOU SEND ONLY. .

$1.25. (33 Tablets—regular size)
$3.00 (100 tablets- economy size)

TO

   

PET HEALTH Inc. Box. 572
AnSonia Sta, N. Y.* 23, ’N. Y. i

    
 

 

 




PET DIGEST

F

MOVIESﬂ‘m

1.,

\With all the ballyhoo of the recent
Academy Award presentations, it
seems only appropriate to- utilize
llullymxxls grandest event and re-
late it to the animal kingdom. The
end result of such an unprecedented
Maneuver gives rise to the inaugura-

IN)“ or l’liT DIGEST’S, Academy

    

  

 

Award: for Animals. Only motion
pictures featuring members of the
pet world ar'e eligible and all ﬁnal
decisions are undemocratically the
opinion of this columnist. So ma-_
jestically waving aside protocol, pet
rank and the public pressures, here

goes.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

BEST ANIMAL ACTRESS . . “Cat”
from BREAKFAST AT TIFFANYS.
BEST ANIMAL ACTOR . . “Peter
Usrono” for his impersonation of
THE MAN WHO WAGGED HIS
TAIL.
BEST SONG “Moon River”
from BREAKFAST AT TIFFANYS.
BEST SUPPORTING ANIMAL AC
TRESS . . The “Cat” appearing in
the introduction of WALK ON THE
WILD SIDE. (NOt to be confused
with Jane Fonda).
BEST SUPPORTING ANIMAL AC-
TOR . . A tie between “The Two
Little Bears” from the picture of
the same name.
SPECIAL AWARD FOR THE IN-
DIVIDUAL FOSTERING HU-
M AN -AN IMAL RELATIONSHIP.
. “Elizabeth Taylor” for her role
as Maggie The Cat in CAT ON A

HOT TIN ROOF.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5:3

  

 




 

 

LIKE ANIMALS?

Then you’ll like AUDUBON '
AUDUBON MAGAZINE .

Authentic articles on

 

0 Animals that man has befriended

0 Animals that have befriended man

0 Animals—iniured or infant—adopted
by man

' Superb pictures of birds, mammals, insects by the
world’s outstanding nature photographers. Full-color
animal cover.

Some of the animals whose dramatic stories of
friendship with humans have been published in Aud-
ubon Magazine:

Deer Cougar Coyote
Raccoon Fisher Weasel
Golden Eagle Mockingbird Bluebird
Whooping Crane House Wren Porcupine
Deermouse Catbird Grey Squirrel

Did you know Thomas Jefferson had a pet mockingbird
in the White H ease? See Audubon Magazine, May-June 1961 .

From Statement of Audubon Philosophy———“We believe in
the wisdom of nature’s design. We believe that soil, water,
plants and wild creatures depend upon each other and are
vital to human life. We condemn no wild creature and work
to assure that no living species shall be lost . . .”

SUBSCRIBE NOW TO AUDUBON MAGAZINE,
official bi-monthly publication of the
National Audubon Society.

1 year, $5.00 2 years, $9.00 3 years, $12.00
Send check and order to:

Dept. PD, Audubon Magazine

National Audubon Society

1130 Fifth Avenue
New York 28, N. Y.

 

 

 

 

    

  
  

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
   




 

JUST ONE BREAK, INC.

717 FIRST AVENUE, NEW YORK 17, N. Y.

MR. EMPLOYER

DO YOU WANT

 

- Good workers
° Less absenteeism
- High production record
- Stronger loyalty
1' ° Less accident risk
° Complete physical background

- Free employment service
- Evaluation of skills and abilities

- Right employee for the right job
° Lower taxes

° Good business

IF YOU DO

EMPLOY THE PHYSICALLY
HANDICAPPED

YOU COULDN'T
POSSIBLY HAVE BETTER WORKERS
’Phone: JOB, Inc. YUkon 6-0044

‘ ‘ “ ,_. L. L. ALL-L ”-4.” ._L_ -i.L “LL-LL“ A - A-- ‘ . .‘ T ‘. L.’ . "T; if ' A; Z - .p 11,-; -. ,W. A,. a.» : A, .A .32; L r.
V“ A J _ m? _ A W A _. ' - A . , A ,. .r v . a}? .1... tm‘ ‘::~‘1.-_..“/<v mung . A L v , . 1.. .L» J— a}: .. -..- _L A .l “A..-
~ L‘L ' “ 4— ML " 2': ‘ v.;'..;;.<- ~ Are -A I: LA - - Ar 4 — u — :2:

 

w4m-a444444WW'" L _;..~..:_.L» .-‘ 11-.

 

 

382

 

“<2 .r_a.LLe“‘ ‘ E.- I v 4 ‘ WV,

 

,.:;« ——<>.— .

l

 




 

FIRST AID — SALAMANDERS

’ (A: told to Helen Kitchen Brnnron by Mam Maser)

come to the United States, I

was asked to substitute for an
ill counsellor at a summer camp. I
had ten or twelve little darlings un-
der my charge, and one of our duties
was to check the cabins each morn-
ing for inspection of beds and ﬁrst
aid equipment. Each day I received
the same request from each child.
“Oh, Madam Moser, I am out of
band aid-es. May I have a few more
please?”

I scanned each leg, each arm for
signs of abrasion. Nothing. Yet
every band aid box was emptey. So,
wondering I filled the boxes and we
'went for our usual walk in the Ver-
mont woods. “Oh, there he is!”
cried one little chap and pointed
with his stubby ﬁnger. “One of our
salamanders! ”

0 NE SUMMER soon after I had

He raced away and picked up one
of the creatures and brought it to
me. I stared in amazement at the
bandage circling the fat stomach.
“The band aides!” I cried. “And
look how swollen they are where
you have bandaged them!”

The children gathered round,
bringing me twenty or more of the
unfortunate creatures. I was puz-
zled as to a solution. Pulling the ad-
hesive would skin the poor creatures
alive. “See,” said the leader of the
group, tears in his eyes, “we did nor

 

mean to hurt them. We only wanted
them for pets and wrote their names
on the tape!” We sent to the nurse
for tape remover solution and the
rest of the afternoon we spent in an
operation we have since titled “First
aid Salamanders.”

83

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

be;

 

 

 

 

 

 

BY ETHEL BROWER

THE SEA AROUND Us, by Rachel
Carson. This educational book, writ-
ten speciﬁcally for young people, is
a gripping story revealing the age-
old secrets of the sea, the moon,
tides, trade winds and Other mysteries
of the deep. This classic will pro-
vide an unforgettable experience for
anyone who reads it. The Aquarium
Publishing Co. $4.95.
>X< >)@ #3 =X< >X<

NIGERIAN FOLK TALES, by Barbara
K. and Warren S. Walker. Thirty-
seven stories still in circulation
among the YOrubas of Nigeria, tape
recorded as they were recited by two
Nigerian students. This unusual and
unique book provides technological
data to make the fascinating tales
meaningful to the Western reader.
Also included are bibliographical
references to correlative studies.
Linecut reproduCtions of traditional
Nigerian art is another interesting
feature of the book. All book stores.

Published by Rutgers University
Press. $4.00.

=X< =X< =)(< =X< =X<

THE FABULOUS FELINE, by Milan
Greer. If you want to own a cat,
then this book is a must. Milan
Greer takes all the quesswork out of
owning a cat by fundamentally go-
ing through the steps and precau-

84

tions necessary for choosing a fabu-
lous feline. He supplies informa-
tion on the various breeds, both
physically and personality Wise.
Many a myth about cats 15 exploded
and many an established faCt 18 d1-
luted under careful scientific ex-
amination. All the car owner needs
to know is contained in these pages
as well as some things the reader
may not know he needs to know.
Published by the Dial Press, Inc.
$4.50.
3% =K< >ll< 1)“ =K<
ALL Docs Go To HEAVEN, by Beth
Brown and illustrated by Jack Mur-
ray. This is a grand collection of
dog stories condensed under one
title. Profusely illustrated and. con-
taining over thirty-five stories, it has
all of the old favorites plus a good
number of newer stories which many
dog lovers will read for the ﬁrst
time. The Stories range from the ad-
venturesome to the downright senti-
mental. The book brought MISS
Brown instant acclaim as well as
everlasting gratitute from dog 0Wﬂ'
ers all over the world. Grosset and
Dunlap. $4.95.
#8 =X< =I< =X‘ 3*

MEDICAL RESEARCH AND THE
DEATH PENALTY, by Jack Kevork-
ian, M. D. Should a condemned

 




BOOK REVIEW

criminal be permitted to choose
anesthesia from which he would
never awaken, with subsequent med-
ical experimentation upon his body,
as an alternative to present day
methods Of execution? The author
of this book says yes. Dr. Kevorkian
asserts that there is need today for
direct medical experimentation upon
living humans, regardless Of how dis-
tasteful the idea may sound. Dr.
Kevorkian then proceeds to state his
reasons. Is he right? That is like
saying, what is justice? A solution
can only come about by reading the
book. Sold at all leading bookstores.
Vantage Press. $2.50.

3% =16 >X< >18 3)?
BIRDMAN OF ALCATRAZ by Thomas
E. Gaddis. This is a true and in-
credible story Of a man who spent
forty-two years in solitary conﬁne-
ment and ironically enough, built a
new life behind prison bars. Robert
Stroud has spent forty-nine years in
Alcatraz prison for killing twice.
His story is a fantastic record of
human achievement. The birdman
of Alcatraz gained world-wide rec-
ognition as a fO'remOSt authority on
bird diseases, despite incredible hard-
ships and the opposition Of prison
Ofﬁcials. Published as a Signet Book

by arrangement with Random House,
Inc. 50¢.

31‘ >X= =X= >)(< >X<

FISHEs, A GUIDE TO FAMILIAR
AMERICAN SPECIES, by Herbert S.
21111, Ph.D. and Hurst H. Shoemaker,
PhD. Fishes have lived on earth
longer than any other backboned
animals and show greater diversity
in their way of life. With this book,
the Golden Nature Guides now en-
compass all the vertebrates—fishes,

amphibians, reptiles, birds and mam-
mals. Golden Press. $1.

=X< >33 3% =X< =K<

ANIMAL AND PET PHOTOGRAPHY
by Mildred Stagg. To camera en-
thusiasts, especially those oriented
towards pets, this small but complete
book will satisfy even the mosr dis-
criminating reader. Photographing
pets is covered A to Z. Everything
from camera’s to canines, lighting to
lizards and ﬁlm to felines is covered
with exceptional taste and clarity. If
you love pets, you won’t want to
miss this brilliantly illustrated book.
Universal Photo Books. $1.95.

=X= =X< =X= =X= >X<

THE CARE OF YOUR CAT by Dr.
Howard Schulberg with Virginia
Biddle. This new and authoritative
guide includes such salient points as
origin and breed, medical musts, cor-
rect diet, cat training and travel tips.
In fact just about everything a cat
lover would want to know is in-
cluded in this factual and informa-
tive guide. There are also eight
pages of fascinating pictures to
round out this publication. Pyramid
Books. 60¢.

MR. CAT by George Freedley. “The
perfect book for anyone who has a
cat,” said Dorothy Kilgallen. $3.15
in special gift box. Village Books,
1.16 Christopher St., New York 14,
N. Y.

 




 

 

 

Justice to Animals

m

BY CHRISTABEL WILSON

Every state of the union has its
law against cruelty to animals, and
for many years everyone believed
that these laws were adequate. But
“Out of sight, out of mind’; and
not until 1956 did it really come to
light that millions of animals were
Still suffering gross abuse behind the
closed doors of slaughter houses.

In 1958, the humane slaughter
bill became law, as a result of over-
whelming popular demand. This was
the ﬁrst federal law for the preven-
tion of cruelty to animals, the gov-
ernment’s recognition of a new
national attitude which a newspaper
headline later summed up: ‘Men
Owe Justice to Animals . . .’

Now that the majority of our food
animals meet a painless death, it is
time to turn our attention to the
other great group of animals who
are not protected by state anti-
cruelty laws. These are the millions
of animals used every year for
scientiﬁc research.

The man in the street rarely if
ever sees inside our medical schools
and research institutes. It would be
a revelation to him if he could see
the animal quarters of some of the
mOSt respectable institutions crawl-
ing with vermin and smelling like
a sewer. Gross neglect in the care
and housing of experimental animals
is too widespread to be dismissed:
all laboratories must be made to con-
form to an adequate standard.

86

Unfortunately neglect is nor the
only problem. NOt only mature
scientists but students and other
slenderly qualiﬁed persons are at
present free to inﬂict any degree of
pain for any length of time on any
number of animals in the course
of an experiment. That many unjust-
ifiable experiments are performed is
acknowledged even in medical cir-
cles.

Abuse of experimental animals
can be stopped by legislation. Great
Britain has had a law for the humane
treatment of laboratory animals
since 1876, and it has worked. Now
a bill modelled on the British Law
has been introduced in Congress:
HR 1937, introduced by Rep.
Martha Grifﬁths, and the identical
S 3088, introduced by Senators
Clark and Neuberger. This is not an
anti-vivisection bill: it aims to stop
cruelty in the laboratory without
stopping justiﬁable research. Experi-
mental animals are in desperate need
of this protection, and it is up to.
all of us to see they get it soon.

=X< =X< >X< $8

The Society for Animal Protective-

Legislation, 745 Fifth Avenue, New
York 22, New York, will be happy
to supply free literature and in-

formation about the progress of the
bill.

EDITOR’S NOTE: Mrr. Wilson wrote
this article from England, where 5/96
[my abrervecl conditions firrt bend.

 




 

COM/0 [imen t5

 

AMERICAN-BELGIAN SCHIPPERKE CLUB, Inc.
P. 0. BOX 56
MALIBU, CALIFORNIA

 

 

 

JOIN

The New York Obedience Training Club is a thriving new organ-
ization which finally gives the city’s dog owners a means of
expressing their views on matters of concern to them.

It conducts weekly dog obedience training classes under the general
supervision of the club’s president, Charles Leedham, co-aathor (”W/9
Milo Pearsall) of the authoritative “Dog Obedience Training”;
and author of “Care of the Dog.” Both hooks are pahlished by
Scribner’s.

In addition the club is preparing a schedule of programs for meet-
ings. These will include experts in the dog fancy, veterinarians,
and ﬁlms and other special materials of particular interest to dog
owners.

The club also intends to represent the interests of dog owners with
respect to the widespread ban on dogs in apartments, to pending
legislation, and to other important matters.

It offers dog owners an opportunity to get together with other
dog Owners for their mutual advantage and enioymenf, In a
relaxed and congenial atmOSphere. The public is invited to
come and see the New York Obedience Training Club in Action.

For information write to Fay Gold, 503 West 45th Street, New
York 36.

“hung-g w,— . ‘W.M.~ ..

 

 

 

 

87"

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

PET DIGEST

 

THE LEGAL ALMANAC SERIES
A LAW LIBRARY FOR
THE LAYMAN
Covers the law in all States

Each volume is written by an
attorney who is an authority

in his field.

-—Know the law for your protection—
(A partial list of subiects)

”The Law of Marriage and Divorce"
"The Law of Support"

llThe Law of Wills"

”Law of Inheritance"

"How to become a Citizen of the U.S.”
I”Law of the Pet Owner”

Each book—$1.35 Postpaid—No C.O.Ds.
P. M. Kain—Box 57I—PD
Yonkers I, N. Y.

 

 

QUALITY PRINTING OFFER!

500 81/2 x II Letterheads ........ $3.75
500 63A Envelopes ...................... 3.75
500 Statements .................... 3.75
500 #5 Shipping tags ................ 3.75
Postpaid
HAROLD R. BOSLEY
(Printing)

21 15-0 Seventh St.
Moundsville, West Va.

 

10 KITTY NOTES 8. ENVELOPES
Fine stationery, Gift Boxed.
Order: Choc. or Blue Siamese,
Aby, Tabby, Silv. Persian, Bur-
mese, Himalayan, Domestic or

Asst’d.
$1.25 Box -— Any 5 for $5.00
FREE CAT-A-LOG, Novel cat items!
Write: CATS Unlimited, Dept. P
P. O. Box 291 I7
Hollywood 29, Calif.

 

U. S. Army Needs
German Shepherds

Persons interested in selling qualified
animals are urged to get in touch with
the U.S. Army Animal Procurement Office,
PO Box 52, Lackland Air Force Base, San
Antonio, Texas.

 

DO YOU LOVE YOUR PET?
MY-O-MY VITAMINS
FOR DOGS AND CATS

THE WONDER VITAMIN
AND MINERAL FORMULA

$1.25 (33 tablets)
Regular Size

$3.00 (100 tablets)
Economy Size

A product of
PET HEALTH INC.
Box 572
Ansonia Station
N. Y. 23, N. Y.

 

 

Poems from the heart. Espe-
ciaIIy written for you by talent-
ed farm women. Book costs
$2.00 postpaid. Send to Hattie
Pope, R #2, Granger, Texas.

 

 

 

88

CAPITAL AVAILABLE
Adequate finances for meritorious
products in the pet field. Write full
particulars. Do not send valuable papers
or samples. PET DIGEST, Box 10-1),
240 West 75th Street, N. Y. 23, N. Y-

 




 

 

 

 

Rover Says,

“A Clean Dog
Is A Happy Dog ”

R O V E R ' S
DOG SHAMPOO

 

-—It removes odors, kills fleas,
and leaves his coat shining
and beautiful

—-It lathers in hard or soft water

5‘54 “mums WP;
REMQvgg Qaﬂgé f

“WW? W w?" FOR YOUR DOG SAKE—TRY IT

Your favoriate pet counter has it.

K

recommended by

PET DIGEST

N
‘1 ,5 at \

”H E: HT; Sf I) T‘”

 

Guaranteed to please —-— or your moriey refunded!
RICHARD E. ROVER CO., Hoboken, N. J.

 

 

 

 

 

89

 

 

 




 

 

 

Flying Squirrels

Cunning little fellows with their
f‘bundle” of tricks. Admired and
loved throughout the world. Hun-
dreds in stock. Write today for
prices, literature, and pictures.
Please enclose 10 cents to cover post-
age.
GREESON’S
FLYING SQUIRREL RANCH
905 N. Munroe St., Arlington 1, Va.
"The largest Flying Squirrel
Ranch in the World"

 

 

 

 

ﬂucky ”23E.

)1! has a
PLEA-KILL BED

Fleas and doggy odor

disappear while lucky

dogs doze in cedar-scented

comfort on world famous Flea-Kill
Beds. Protects little children from
flea bites or snapping by flea—har-
assed pet. Stops scrathing.

Orlon Acrylic fabric in authentic
Scottish plaid made expressly for
Chaperone. Cover is washable, stain
resistant, moth-proof, non-shrink. Has
zip-per for removing inner pad. Pets
prefer it to chairs, sofas, beds and
rugs, ending telltale hairs, soiled
cushions and odor on furnishings.
Suitable for any room. Economical,
long-lasting. Sent postpaid.
Regular——15x28 in. for average dogs
Super—28x38 in. for large dogs $6.98
Fing-Sizc—C’J‘Sx48 in. for biggest dogs $12.90
Witty Cot—Similar flea-killing bed for cats.
Enticing ca‘nip aroma. Sweetens disposition.
14x18 in. $3.95 Queen-Size 15x28 $4.95

Order Today—We 'mail postpaid.
Money-Back Guarantee
CHAPERON‘E. Box 1691, Sudbury, Mass.

90

$4.95

WHERE BETTER PET
ITEMS ARE SOLD
LOOK FOR THE
RUBIN LINE OF
Dog Blankets

Dress Coats

Rain Wear

RUBIN MFG. CO.

1690 Flatbush Ave.
Brooklyn 10, N. Y.
DEwey 8-2483

POEMS WANTED
To Be Set To Music

Send one or more of your best poems
today for FREE EXAMINATION. Any
Subject. Immediate Consideration.

Phonograph Records Made
CROWN MUSIC CO.
49 W. 32 St., Studio 462 New York I

 

 

 

WANTED

A copy of Stroud’s Digest on the Diseases
of Birds, for use in ﬁghting for the
Stroud cause. If you have a copy of the
Digest that you will either donate or sell
to help the cause, contact:

Margaret A. Mclallen
1328 J ackston St. Glendale 7, Calif.

 

 

 

looking for a

PUBLISHER

Your book can be published, promoted, dis-
tributed by successful, reliable company noted .
for prompt, personal service. All subiects. Free
Editorial Report. Inquiries also invited from
businesses, organizations, churches, etc. Send

for Free Booklet. Vantage Press, Dept. PW,

120 W. 31st St., New York I, N. Y.

 




 

 

jAe Wah’ona/ ./4Mociation 0/ {Le
Pet ﬂucluéby, .9“.

(INC. UNDER THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK)

A MESSAGE

b To those who already own a dog, a cat, a bird or other pet, or who
already have an aquarium at home, it is quite unnecessary to speak of
the happiness these things bring.

i However there are far too many who have not as yet experienced the
pleasure of owning a pet, and to you especially, is this message
directed.

Q Whether it be a puppy or a kitten for the child to love, or a tank of ﬁsh
that will relax and fascinate both young and old, there can be little
doubt of the‘ part a living pet can play in home life.

. Why not consult your neighborhood pet dealer. You will ﬁnd him
friendly and most co-operative. He will be glad to answer your
questions.

) Learn how inexpensive it can be to start an aquarium. Find out about
the modern and new things for cats and dogs that make ownership so
easy and convenient even in apartments.

D See how inexpensive it is to acquire a lovely bird and to maintain it.
Inquire about other interesting pets and pet life.

 

Won’t You Let This Be Your Reminder to
Visit Your Nearest PetShop . . . You Will

Find It a Most Rewarding Experience.

 

 

 

91

 

 




FINE QUALITY TOILETRIES MADE
ONLY BY CERTIFIED BLIND WORKERS ‘

a business enterprise-- not a charitable organization
PRODUCTS OF BLIND WORKERS

INCORPORATED

 

presents

7 FINE
Utmost care and Skill... 4 Tonermes
and the finest ingredients ' , _.
available, go into every 4' I V I. I

one of these economical
fine quality Lacan’s Toiletries:

- Lacan’s LANOLIN SOAP
- Lacan’s ALUR SHAMPOO

~Lacan’s BEAUTEE BLUE xx

. ; .:. .I a '4’." 2““‘3'
Hand & Body Lotion .5 . ' ”/7

%’V ‘1‘“

,.

;

(\Q. ‘1‘
)‘0’::‘,” ‘3

0 Lacan’s SPRAY DEODORANT

- Lacan’s LEBONAIRE

After Shave Lotion >/’

83232553365

. Lacan’s BREATH or SPRING 53:35
Toilet Essence (Light Perfume)

PRODUCTS 0F BLIND WORKERS. inc.

a business enterprise - not a charitable organization

A if ‘
()Bw‘, wooosroa 77. new YORK :_ E _:
\l’ _ 1‘1““; 3

 

A __ LR . Your daily usage of Lacan’s fine quality toiletries will
recommended by $55!? usfto create more and more employmegtEoglgf'

. ‘ um ies or blind people, AND YOU WILL '
_. PET DIGEST TlNG TOP PRODUCT VALUES AT THE SAME TIME.

.4 H

 

- at“ .
4UVVRTHWXJY“ERE .”

 

 

 

 




‘ "pays: to advertise-Pot Digest [3 g

' 7f or product nationally. let us help you through these colon“; .
Ems: ONLY 20 cents per word per issue. p ‘ . g ‘
-’,"shrgotlﬁlt\li5._ You receive a 10% discount ford consecutive'i'amg,c|f.‘gj.iﬁ‘.dv.d‘-g =

i ' ; unpaytlslo in advance. Pet Digest, 240 West 75m Street,ﬂewYotit 23,-g‘ﬂ. Y, "1 ‘55.?“

 

 

DOGS
AUSTRALIAN \TERRIERS. Small,
smart, sturdy. AKC's newest terrier.
Ideal for modern living 8: budgets.

Pleasant Pastures Knls, 1411 Dorsett
Dock, Point Pleasant, N. J.

1! III 1! II! 1*

ALASKAN MALAMUTES

ALASKAN MALAMUTE PUPS. AKC

registered sled dogs and show dogs. The

friendliest of dogs, lovable and alert.

Decoteau Kennels, Route 3, Ames, Iowa.
* ill 1‘ * ilk

A K. C. White German Shepherds. Al-
so other Registered puppies. Reasonable

prices. Marlene Hillgren, Bruning, Ne-
braska.

1‘ ’K' ﬁt III III
PUGS

BEAUTIFUL PUPPIES. Pugs (black or
fawn) and Westies Oser Kennels, 14423
State Road, 14 West, Fort Wayne, In-
diana, Arcola 5-3240.

it III III it i

Chihauhua smooth, long coat. Pet, breed-
mg and show stock. Forest View Ken-
nels, Marathon, N. Y. VI 9-3991, Bronx
TU 1-1767 eves.

’I‘ it * i 1"
VIZSlOS
REGISTERED VIZSLO PUPS. Started
dogs. Bred females, Top Bloodlines.
Frank Engstrom, Grey Eagle, Minn.

* I" ll 1! 1"
BOSTON PUPPIES
AKC registered Boston puppies. Healthy,
wormed and inoculated, will ship. Cham-
plon srred and others. B. T. Bowditch,
Cement City, Michigan.

ill it i! an: an:

WONDERFUL SAlUKIS

You Couldn’t Have A Better Dog. Very
Rare Breed. Owned By Sumarian Kings
And The Egyptian Pharoas. About TWO
Years Old. El Retiro Kennels, Anna

Marie Paterno Owner, West Hartford,
Vermont.

 

CWS'F'E" ADVERT-Isms“?

circulated to every 51mm

    

    

 

TOY POODLES

 

AKC Poodle Puppies excellent type
White, Silver Stud Service. ARNOLD
5137OU31N. South Bend, Ind.

=l= I? it # ﬁr

POODLES

Miniature and Toy Poodles. Puppies and
Stud Service. Quality and temperament
guaranteed. Miss Silvia Allen, Box 568,
Wilmington, N. C.
i‘ * it it *

TOY AND MINIATURE POODLES At
Stud Black Son of Ch. Escapades Echo
of Exton and CH. Alskling of Exton,
White pointed, Apricot being shown. For
Sale Young Proven matrons, and studs.
Also puppies most colors. $75.00 up.
Verna B. Dawson, Rock Island, 111.

2n: it at an: an:
PUGS
RT. 1, ADEL, IOWA PH. 468-2339.
at an: at: at an:

PUGS

Stud Service and Puppies, Fawn or Black
Norik Kennels, reg., RT. 3, Norfolk,
Nebraska.

PEDIGREE SERVICE

 

 

From ofﬁcial A.K.C. records. Typed,

Champions in red. 4 Generations $1.50,

5-33.00. Bennett’s Pedigree Service,

Rehoboth, Mass.
*

it # =l= III

ITALIAN GREYHOUNDS

Puppies for show, also pets, stud service.
Marco Leynor, 121 Macdougall St., New

York City. Spring 7-3929.

93

.5. I m... sniff .1, 9"” _ '
Minimuma Iswords. m... waif/“21‘? 3%.

 

  

 




 

 

 

 

BOOKS

 

MR. CAT by George Freedley. "The per-
fect book for anyone who has a cat," said
Dorothy Kilgallen. $3.15 in special gift
box. Village Books, 116 Christopher
St., New York 14, N. Y.

ll! 1‘ is I! it

PROPHET ELIJAH COMING, PRE-
PARING WAY.. FOR CHRIST.
WORLDS NEXT GREAT EVENT.
POSITIVE BIBLE EVIDENCE. FREE
B.OO_K._ PD MEGIDDO. MISSION.
.Rochester 19, New York.

* i i i ‘

"[AW FOR. PET. OWNERS" .

A survey of all laws pertaining to house-
hold pets; the acquisitiOn, selling and giv-
ing of a pet, legal liabilities of the owner
and other custodians of pets, licensing
statutes, etc. Price, $1.35. Postpaid. P.
Kain, Box 571-P, Yonkers, N. Y.

t it # $ t

Dog books-—anything on dogs. Free
List. Judy Pub’l Co., PO Box 5270 Main
PO, Chicago.

* * it 1‘ *
BOOkﬁnding our specialty. Try us for hard

to find books. Babcock, 412' Lulu, Wich-
ita 11, Kansas.

 

BIRDS

 

COINS

 

SILVERL—Two Select Brillant Uncircu-
lated Mexican SILVER Dollars—$1.00
(Refundable). UNIVERSAL, Box 866,
San Antonio 6 AG1, Texas

* II! it SI! it

 

FOOD

 

NATURAL WHOLESOME FOOD for
your health. WONDERFUL LEAF LET-
TUCE, Natural Sorghum, Cheese, Peanut
Butter, Natural Sugar, Honey, Lecithin
Spread, Stone ”Ground Flours, Cereals,
Fruits, Etc. Write for descriptive CIR-
CULAR. LONE PINE FARM, Dept. PD,
Ingleﬁeld, Indiana.

 

FOWl

 

FOR SALE: PEAFOWL. Blue, Green
also pure white. Full grown and started
chicks. Bayou Vista, 2010 Pine Drive,
Dickinson, Texas.

II! 1|: I! i it

WATER FOWI.

Beautiful large Canadian geese $20.00
pair. Small call ducks, Muscovy or Mal-
lards. Bwinie Brooks, Louisville, Illinois.

 

PARROT—Only red mutant in captivity.
Hyachinthine macau-cockatoo-cockatiels.
All beautiful handtamed talkers. Birdville,
8512 Red Road, Miami 43, Fla.

 

GAME BIRDS

 

NORTHERN BOB WHITE QUAIL,
1961 Hatch $3.00 Per Pair MINIMUM
ORDER 10 Pair, FOR HOBBY, FOR
PROFIT, Shipped Express Collect.
STANFORD QUAIL FARM DEPT. P,
PINE APPLE, ALABAMA.

 

CAVIES

 

Beautiful, .long haired Peruvians and
goregous Silkies. CAVIE TOWN 614 E.
CHESTNUT ST., GLENDALE, CALIF.

94

 

GREETING CARDS

 

HAND COLORED DOG CHRISTMAS
CARDS. Send 25c for sample of your
breed. BET SY BROWNELL, 192 Bow-
en St., Providence 6, R. I.

 

INTEREST TO WOMEN

 

HOME EARNINGS, TYPING FOR
BUSINESS FIRMS! INSTRUCTION
MANUAL $1. BOLINGERZ, 500 S.

Hampton, Orlando, Florida.

# # I! t it

A BIT OF TEXAS IN YOUR GAR-
DEN? 500 ASSORTED SWEET
ONION PLANTS $2.00 TEXAS
ONION PLANT COMPANY, FARM-
ERSVILLE, TEXAS.

 




 

 

 

JOBS

OVERSEAS jobs for everybody. Fabulous
opportunities. For list send $2.00. UNI-
VERSAL POB 683, ‘Kenosha, Wisc.

 

 

MISCELLANEOUS

ORGANIC CLEANING CONCEN-
TRATE—for cleaning pets, safe, effective,
non-irritating, economical. Send $2.00
for full quart postpaid. Eugene .A. Diet-
rich, 318 Summit, Toledo 4, Ohio. Also
distributors wanted.

it i! I! it *

"STAMMER—STUTTER—NO MORE.”
(Dr. Young.) Scientiﬁc. Free details.
Write: GAUCHO, Box 9309-D5,
Chicago 90.

i! II! t ‘I i!

HOW TO ANNIHILATE SPARROWS
—STARLINGS, with "famed" Black
Lily” Traps. New, Free informatiOn.
Your copy ready. Write today. Sparrow-
traps, 502 Detroit Lakes", Minnesota.

1! I! I! III II!

SPARKLING NATURAL

ALUMINUM feeding dishes for cats and
dogs. Never rusts, washes easily, two
Sizes: 6” x '1 3/4” 1000.for $30.00 or
for $18.00 size 7” x 1 3/4" 1000 for
$35.00 or 500 for $25.00 send cash or
Money order to Foiltex Aluminum Co.
580 S. Alameda St., Los Angeles 13.
Calif. “(COD orders must come ac—
companied with 10% down) postage
paid on cash orders only. Satisfaction
guaranteed. Makes a wonderful fund
raiser for Churches and clubs.

i‘ it 1‘ ‘I *

Hearing Aids, only $29.95-UP- Free
Trial—Terms-Write CARY W Hearing
Aids, Inverness, Fla.-—Agents inquire.
* i‘ I‘ t I!

REMAILING on MISC.

SECRET MAIL ADDRESS. $3.00
MONTHLY. HOLD AND REMAIL.
INFORMATION FREE. DE GRAFF.

BOX 14156P. SAN DIEGO, CALI-
FORNIA.

 

* i O t ‘
ANIMAl CONSULTING SERVICE
Dogs, cats, horses. Let us solve your PIOb'
lems of care, training, choosing the PI'OP‘?r

pet, problem pets, etc. Our experience
and training work for you. The Leh-
mann’s, 241 Linden Ave., Ithaca, N. Y.

 

AGENTS

 

PRINTING, OFFICE SUPPLIES.
WHOLESALE. 10,000 ITEMS. SAVE
50%. LITERATURE FREE. STIEFEL
31' LEHIGH PLACE, IRVINGTON 11,-
NEW JERSEY.

 

PET CAGES

 

Cages, all-metal; Durable, Sanitary, Com-
fortable, Economical. Folder: 25c. South-
ern Pet, Box 114, Marietta, Ga.

 

PHOTOGRAPHY

Model Releases, Forms, 100-$1.00."
Studio, Box 1143-D, Santa Barbara, Calif.

* ii i O O
PHOTO FINISHING , .
PHOTOGRAPHIC. MURALS ANY SIZE
FROM YOUR SLIDES OR CHOOSE
FROM OUR NEGATIVES. Send 50C
for brochure. Al Greene, Stage 1, 1333
Scum-lope Street, Los Angeles 15 ,Calif.

 

 

POULTRY, PIGEONS

 

BUTTERCUPS, JAPS AND SILKIES.
ORNAMENTAL PHEASANTS. FANCY
AND UTILITY PIGEONS. DUTCH
RABBITS. HATCHING EGGS AND
STOCK. Scott Nininger, Land O’Lakes,
Florida.

 

PRINTING

 

1000 SIMULATED ENGRAVED BUSI-
NESS CARDS $3.00, POSTPAID. Letj
terheads, envelopes, post . cards. Free
samples. Business Specialities, 1422-P
Rosemont, Chicago, Ill. ‘

i i i It O
Your quality personal stationery direct
to you' by prepaid mail. Samples gratis.
Granger, Dept. P. 7825 Monterrey, El
Paso, Texas.

95

 

 




 

 

 

 

RABBITS

 

Beautiful palomino rabbits, 2 to 3
months, four dollars each. Ship any-
where. Round Top Rabbits, Damariscotta,
Maine.

3" it 1‘ =I‘ *
PEDIGREED ENGLISH Angoras from 8
pounds and over foundation stock. Also
pedigreed Himalayans, very nice mark-
ings. Ray Cunningham, Tekamah, Nebr.
11.

 

FOR SALE

 

Cheekar, Barbary and Hungarian part-
ridge, also Gamble quail. Eggs In Sea-
son. George Lentz, Jr., Bond Road,
‘Parkton, Md.

=l= al‘: at a: an:

Hamsters, Creem, Creemband Reds Colors
of cedar wood. $4.50 a pair. Louis Na-
bonzy, Jr., 5400 Calhoun, Dearborn,
Mich.

 

STAMPS

 

70,000 stamps sell out. Bargain lot:
packets, sets, rare stamps, gift $1. Extra
special $2. Giant assortment $5. High
value packet $3. sellout list, samples
25c. Persile, 436 N. Y. Ave., Brooklyn
25, N. Y.

it it =I= ﬁr 1"
STAMP APPROVALS
EXOTIC ANIMALS, BIRDS, BUTTER-
FLIES! 3 MULTICOLORED SETS
ONLY 10c WITH APPROVALS. P-K
Stamps, Warner, New Hampshire.

 

SONGWRITERS

 

SONGPOEMS WANTED! Collaborate
with professional songwriters on equal
basis. Share royalties. SONGWRITERS
CONTACT CO., 1619-C Broadway, New
York 19.

96

 

TAXIDERMY

 

Taxidermists I sell unprotected frozen
Hawks and Owls. Write me for prices.
Jens Trvedt, Roosevelt, Minn.

 

WRITERS WANTED

 

W’RITERS WANTED for assignments,
in business and professional and farm
ﬁelds. Dept. PD, 5228 Irvine Ave.,
North Hollywood, Calif.

# i: in: * i=

Make money writing short pieces: poems,
recipes, jokes, short stories. Only ordi-
nary education needsd. $1. Delano Pub—
lishers, 232 Delano, Yonkers, N. Y.

 

 

 

AUTHORS & PUBLISHERS

 

 

WRITERSI—FREE LIST of top-notch
USA markets for short stories, articles,
books and plays. Write for your free
copy today! Literary Agent Mead, 915
Broadway 10, N. Y.

VETERINARIAN WANTED

Beautiful Acre Location, Successful
Boarding Kennel, No Veterinarian In
Rapidly Growing City. An Unusual Op-
portunity Awaiting A Qualiﬁed Veteri-
narian. Write For Full Particulars To:
Box 123, Ormond Beach, Florida.

 

PET SCULPTURES

 

Individual Wood Sculpture portrait of
Your Pet Solid Walnut——Exact Likeness
from your Photos—Size Determines
Price. Write M. E. Brasher, Kent, Conn-

 

 




  

 

     

NOW
SHE’S
ON
HER
OWN!

The girl in this picture is blind. The
reason why she walks with such head-
high conﬁdence is the trusted, well-
trained guide dog at her side.

For many who are blind, nothing could bring agreater sense of self-assurance
and freedom than a guide dog. Help sightless men .and women find a new life
of dignity and independence by giving your generous support to a vital humanl-

tarian service, Guiding Eyes for the Blind.

Your gift can mean much to one without sight. For example, your check for
$10.00 will provide one full day’s training with a guide dog. How many days
Will you sponsor? Your gift in any amount, large or small, will mean a great
deal to a deserving blind person.

You can help find freedom for one who is blind. Send Your contribution
today to:

Guiding Eyes for the Blind

Yorktown Heights, New York

 




Photo by Sy Kmoff

[IA/9 (Id/elicit“) CAI/clam anal paid
~91: _/4// Our ﬁai/e/ingd

BALMAR CONSTRUCTION COMPANY, Inc.

1093 SECOND AVENUE
NEW YORK CITY

 




 

 




 
   

Proudly Presents

    

   

x FOR
© DOGS a. CATS

THE COMPLETE WONDER VITAMIN AND MINERAL FORMULA
FORTIFIED WITH LIPOTROPIC FACTORS AND VITAMIN E'—
FOR YOUR FAVORITE DOG AND CAT

Years of research with Dogs and Cats from time of birth
until they enter Animal Heaven is responsible for the creation
of MY-O-MY VITAMINS-the best Vitamin and Mineral formula
that scientific knowledge, love of animals and human ingenu-
ity could produce—there is no better Vitamin for your Dog
or Cat than MY-O-MY VITAMINS.

  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  

  
 
 
 
     

REGULAR DAILY USAGE or
MY-O-MY VITAMINS

WILL HELP CONTRIBUTE recommended by
TO YOUR DOG AND CAT I
.' Sound Bones and Teeth.—
A Luxurious Healthy Coat-—- ,
Nerve and Muscle Coordination-—
Resistance Against Infections and Illness—
Maintaining Vigorous Health—

IF YOU LOVE YOUR PET

GIVE IT MY-O-MY VITAMINS

SOLD AT ALL BETTER PET COUNTERS—IF YOUR STORE IS
SOLD OUT OR CAN'T SUPPLY YOU SEND ONLY $3.00 for
one hundred MY-O-MY VITAMINS to:

PET HEALTH Inc, Box 572
Ansonia Sta. N. Y. 23, N. Y.

 

 

  




WINTER 1961- 1962 VOL. 3, NO. 4

PET DIGEST

EXECUTIVE OFFICE: 240 West 75th Street, New York 23, N. Y.—TRafalgar 7-4006
A Quarterly Publication
Dedicated to Human-Animal Relationship

PET DIGEST: $4.00 per year— $7.00 for 2 years— $10.00 for 3 years.

Foreign countries, $1.50 extra each year; Canada $1.00 extra each year.

© 1961 by Penthouse Periodicals Inc., Official Publication for the In-

stitute for Human-Animal Relationship, Inc. Permission to use must he

solicited and given in writing.

Staff—Editors: Dean White and Hedy White; Associate Editors: Ethel Brower, Carl
E. Smith, Raymond Thompson, Janet Mack, Richard H. Hoffmann, David Nadler;
Advertising Director: Casey White; Circulation Manager; H. Keller; Photo Editor:
Alice Wernherr; Editoral Consultant: Gordon Knox Bell, Jr.; Classiﬁed Advertising
Director, B. Mammet '
Our Hats Oﬁc To: , The Editors
“Sweetheart” ...................... Richard H. Hoﬂmann, MD.
The Cat In The Museum ...... Janet Hutchinson & Emeline K. Page '
Meaning of the Zodiac ....................... Blanche Tannen
“The Pure-Bred” Editor’s Mail-Bag ................ Janet Mach
‘Bill’ Carr .. . .' ................................. Dean White
Birds Build Better Citizens .................... David Ginsberg
Author and Feline Friend ........................ Hedy White
Reindeer Have the Right of Way ................. Jane Highton
A Dog’s Ears .................. ......... Raymond Thompson
Noblest of Them All ........................ John Christopher
George Garage ............................... Alice Wernherr
Vicky ..................... LouisLewis
Humanitarian of St. Hubert’s Giralda ............ Edwin J. Sayres
At the Captain’s Door ..................... Olivia V. Richman
Skeletons of Fish ............. . .................. Felix Forrest
A Remarkable Character ......................... Owes F o garty
Cat is “Top Dog” ............................... Will Smith
Backyard Breeders ............................. Carl E. Smith
Good News for Animals ........................ Janice Paprin
Better Living for Your Dog .................... Boh Chamherlin
Movies Worth Seeing .......................... David N adler
Book Reviews Ethel Brower
Rare Animal Farm Started . . . . . . . . . . . ............. ' Susan Stacy
Police Dog Honored .......................... Carl S amanshy
First Penguin HatChed ........................... Charles Russo
Bvuitoni—Friend of Animals . . . . . Marie White

 

 




 

a RFZE

-- , --- r- v - - * cw" .1-1 u: “m at .. . » -
~"-*- ~L-it;"¢4;.‘~ ’2"?&:£-?'~’.- 0 Jr)“ . 4 ~.’n‘~'—-‘- a‘fh- -- -: . . Ni- ji
" {‘Q‘ at: ’3. / ‘13:. N ("53: Z‘iy'” f {134‘ LKIX ';‘-¢:,\-l»,*: I'Jn a"

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘ ' r w k

”'47'1' $34.]: a ’3.

_ - ' - .- . , ' ‘ >
. ,..' ' -~.’ s “v” - .-. --'. '
9:: at: " 3-" 51-" ”In 2.3415,; " “51,153

W e MI I; l
_.
."' .' . was : a;
'. 3 :Fia‘f‘k'. . l ' ..
“¢.\»' 4‘» . 9.
- ’ 't‘i ‘1“ \‘u‘
' ~. . 3 .j" .0;
c“? ~_}‘)\y‘, (I-
-. AV!) (5:3
C..\' . .’ .
-‘.~.‘.n.7«.l.~’,1 "‘ .33.;
.‘k;v'&4’~>'.
_» ' 1:. 7):;
13%;»; *‘
.-.".- .-"’ N “-1
6;} r "*.‘,3‘w\.‘fst'?;* 'r';
‘ ‘ -’1"3."‘.~¥:§

   

There are several mistakes purposely made in grammer, spell-
ing and punctuation in several articles, and advertisements

in this issue.
Your amateur word detectives or proof readers—ﬁnd. them

and Win a prize.

You will receive a vial of 100 MY-O-MY VITAMINS--~———the
wonder Vitamin for your Dog and Cat. A. product of Pet Health,

Inc.

All Answers Must Be Sent To
Contest Editor
PET DIGEST
240 West 75th Street, New York 23, N. Y.
Contest Closes February 15, 1962

Neatness, accuracy and promptness are the only governing
factors.

  

    

" i" ".‘"2‘ 'f.-' -" -'-'~\: - - -- «
3.30 #- ice..- . as» Reggie-1.9»;

5‘, -_. 1.; fr. ._~ .,. ‘ "‘:v\ '4 l».")’ 'f .
~-‘-"’:'-:-;-‘.~‘-t*€‘-~_}a“‘~>« m... '3‘.:$r.:'r'§f._:.- .
"'-"ir.-’.'J‘¢2'év‘n - - irresmvsrasﬁgﬁ '. ‘ -.:-.
"few-.- 'qg'-(:”v ‘ m i}?".r)"<§:.‘ g? r—- ' .. :-' - . - ~-
fg‘tpnq ‘5; . 1:1; y, ¥?.-,,v-4_‘,1.Q,;': I”: ‘. -, ' '. _ _.“-
Ami-Ru? "it".""“ui’tcu‘kﬂi51":33I-if' : '
“-"‘ 3‘" '1 ﬂ." l—‘t‘v -I. ~34» .’ .."'—'9 f "Hi-1 ' " V ‘

 

P.S.: There are several mistakes write in this notice. Can you
ﬁnd them, as wel as the many others in the classiﬁed
ads, the articles etc.

One prize to a winner. Strictly limited to subscribers of:

PET DIGEST

 

 




 

 

HERE IS A WONDERFUL FREE GIFT
FOR 50.000 NEW SUBSCRIBERS TO

PET DIGEST

(The Quarterly Dedicated To Human-Animal Relationship)

YOU WILL RECEIVE ABSOLUTELY FREE A SANITARY UN-
BREAKABLE VIAL OF 100 MY-O-MY VITAMINS. THE COM-
PLETE VITAMIN AND MINERAL FORMULA FORTIFIED WITH
LIPOTROP‘IC FACTORS AND VITAMIN E—FOJR YOUR

FAVORITE DOG OR CAT

MY-O-MY VITAMINS is a product of PET HEALTH, Inc.

There is NO bef’rer Vi’ramin for your Pet.

YOUR PET WILL BLESS YOU WHEN YOU GIVE IT
MY-O-MY VITAMINS

To Receive Your Free Gift
Mail this Subscription With Remittance T 0:

PET DIGEST
240 West 75th Street
New York 23, N. Y.

THIS GIFT OFFER
IS FOR A LIMITED TIME

, Subscription and

 

Free Gift Form

 

__ one year $ 4.00 Plus Free Gift of 100 MY—O-MY VITAMINS
__ two years $ 7.00 Plus Free Gift of 100 MY-O-MY VITAMINS
__ three years $10.00 Plus Free Gift of 100 MY—O‘-MY VITAMINS

NAME .....................................................................................................
ADDRESS ................................................................................................
CITY ............................................... . ............. ZONE ..... STATE ............

MY-O-MY VITAMINS Is Unqualifiedly Endorsed

OI<

‘ eeeeeeee ded by
PET DIGEST

,\
TISED THE“

 

 

 

   
 

  
      

 




PET DIGEST

WILLIAM H. A. CARR, noted
journalist, author, humanitarian, pet
editor of the New York Post and,
recent recipient of The Albert
Schweitzer Medal of the Animal
Welfare Institute. His outstanding
writings in behalf of humans and
animals has endeared him to every

friend of animals.
1“.» it =X‘ ”II II:

BETH BROWN, popular animal
novelist who erte “All Dogs Go

To Heaven,” to settle the contro-
versy between people who won’t go
to heaven if any dogs are there and
people who won’t go unless their

dogs are there.
=ll= =X< =ll= 38 ,)(l

DR. WILLIAM C. DOLOWY,
administrator of the University of
Illinois Medical Research Laboratory
—loves animals as much as he does
humans, and works for the health
and happiness of bOth.

=X< =X= 38 =X< IX‘

ALICE SCHMID, President of the
Friends of Animals whose efforts
to reduce the animal population ex-
plosion through the spaying method
is winning the support of every
humanitarian.

=38 ’X‘ 3" it =ll<

JUSTIN MCCARTHY, who is
responsibel for the splendid pub-
licity given to the Humane Society

4

of New York and their million dol-
lar building campaign.
3? II‘ =X‘ =I=

CHARLES LEEDHAM, President
of the New York Obedience Train-
ing Club whose dog training is
guaranteed to make your pet a per-
fect lady or gentleman.

3* =K‘ =l= =X‘ 3*

GIL GRUBER, editor of Pet Food
Institute and former president of
the National Association of the Pet
Industry for his marketing and label
consulting in behalf of mans beSt
friend.

5)? IX‘ ’I‘ ’X‘ =I‘
The Institute for Human-Animal
Relationship under the leadership of
the renowned DR. RICHARD H.
HOFFMANN for its plans and pur-
poses to help the aged, sick of mind
and juveniles thru pet therapy.

=ll< =X‘ =X‘ =K< 1*

CURTIS P. FRESHEL, President
of the Vivisection Investigation
League for his steadfast and coura-
geous campaign for kindness to
animals.

=X‘ 3* 1" =X‘ 3*

DR. (9 MRS. HERBERT GRO—
TS CH for their devotion to their
blind poodle and their interest in

all humanitarian endeavors.
Ill! =X= 3* =X= =X<

AENNCHEN AN TONELLI, of

 

 

 




  

~-.:-:

 

 

 

 

   

 

Aennchen’s Maltese, is one of the
charming breeders who graces the
Dog Fanciers Luncheon Club regu-
larly.
=K‘ i‘ 1* ’X‘ =K=
ELEANOR C. JENKINS, breeder
and editor of the Bernardsville
News—ma humanitarian personiﬁed.
3% 1‘ i‘ * *
ELIZABETH DUNN (9 KAYE
PEER, Editors and Publishers of
Dogs in Canada. They produce one
of the most informative and best
magazines. W’e in the states salute
this splendid publiCation.
{K4 3" * * ’l‘
ROBERT CHAMBERLIN of Got~
tlieb Associates doing a ﬁne RR.
job for a mighty good product
called Etttoral—ask your vet about
it.

as x:
BARNEY [Tr/4541511: who is badly
crippled and totally blind for his
many acts of kindness and genero-
sity to others less fortunate; warms
the heart. Incidently, Barney is the

Classiﬁed Advertising DireCtor for.

PET DIGEST and is an exponent
of Private Enterprise.
>X< 5* =X< ~‘X< =X<
DR. 15. S. MONTGOMERY, who
in his September “Terrier Talk”
column in Popular Dogs, paid high
compliment to Janet Mack—editor
of our Pure-bred dog secrion.
=X< 1* =)'6 =X= =K=
NANCY T. ACKERMAN whose
Rik-Rak Miniature Schnauzers are
well known. Her breed newsletter
is tops plus.
=X< II: 4“ 3* =l(<
The world. famous PEGGIE
WOOD, who alongside her husband,
Mr. \William Walling, all but roasted
to death, at ringside watching Man-

   

chester Terrier judging at a recent
Westchester Kennel Club Show, all
for the love of the Toy Manchester
that owns them.
=K< IX‘ =K‘ 3* =X<
DONALD G. BURNET whose
Manchester Terrier News is fast
becoming a national publication, be-
cause it reﬂects a thinking mind,
in well chosen words.
>K‘ IK‘ i‘ =1: =K<
HOLDEN WETHERBEE whose
drawings, line and sepia, of dogs and
cats are the last word.
'I‘ ’K‘ II: II! it
]. W. ANDERSON, publisher
of the Aquarium, is a gentleman and
the proverbial scholar. The Aquarium.
MagaZine is the aquarist’s bible.
=1? * 1* =l= it
ESTEI...LE DRAPER, Secretary of
the Animal \Velfare Institute. Verit-
ably an encyclopedia of facts relative
to every humanitarian movement.
A grand person.
>li~‘ i‘ * 1* =I=
JANET MACK, Editor of the
Pure Bred Dogs column in PET
DIGEST. One of the real honest out-
spoken people whose courage, knowl-
edge and ability has made her THE
authority on Pure Bred Dogs. Miss
Janet’s plethora of humanitarianism
acts to the handicapped and to those
who needed a hand is little known,
because that is the way this noble
lady wants it to be.
=1“ i‘ 1k 1* 1*

A SPECIAL PRAYER for every—

thing that ﬂies, walks, crawls or

 

 

  




 

 

PET DIGEST

“Sweethea rt”

BY RICHARD H. HOFFMANN, MD.

HERE COMES a time in life

when it is a bit anachronistic

to use the appelation of “Sweet-
heart” to a human being. When
I was young I would ﬂing the term
at any fascinating female, just like
a grapefruit squirts juice, in all di-
rections without any speciﬁc aim or
intention. It is a word that is de-
leted from one’s vocabulary when
arteries harden and amatory pursuits
are untimely pretensions.

But “Sweetheart” is a beautiful
and endearing term. I hated to drop
it from my lexicon. And, I remem-
bered that King Lear called one of
h is d o g s “Sweetheart”——w h y
shouldn’t I? So I called by little
Yorkshire terrier “Sweetheart,” and
it was something like the recall of
my youth every time I called her.

My wife has raised four Yorkshire
terriers who supply an interest in
her life. She gives them the scrupu—
lous care that they demand, and
they repay her with affectionate
loyalty. We wanted another female
for breeding and bought “Sweet-
heart.” She was, however, not ac-
cepted by the others.

They snarled and bit at her and
kept her at a distance. She was an
unwelcome intruder into the family
circle. They were like a biblical tribe
who refused to accept a stranger into
their midst.

So Sweetheart was ostracized and
I adopted her. She was separately
groomed and fed and she slept in
my bedroom. She became my per-

6

 

(President of the Iﬂjlllfﬂte for
H amen-Animal Relations/973]) )

sonal friend—my “Sweetheart.”

She is a beautiful animal with
a golden face and a silver body. She
would venture into my ofﬁce at times,
sit on my desk and kiss my hand in
gratitude for my attention. Many of
my patients would ask for her when
they came for treatment.

And one day the widow of my
dear friend Norman Bel Geddes,
the celebrated artisr and designer,
came to see me. She is a charming
and talented woman who at the time
revealed the sorrow of her bereave-
ment. She saw “Sweetheart” and
there was an immediate empathy
between them. She fondled and
petted the little dog and “Sweet-
heart” reciprocated her affection.

I could read a yearning in the eyes
of my friend. “Would you like to
have her?” I asked.

“More than anything I can think
of,” she replied.

And so I lost “Sweetheart”, but
I brought happiness to a human
being and cemented a warm friend-
ship. We now have something in
common that transcends the aver-
age relationship between friends. I
have given her a living thing that
I loved, and that I know she loves
as well.

 

 

 




The Cat In The Museum

BY JANET HUTCHINSON & EMELINE K. PAIGE

T WAS THE thirteenth of February
Iwhen the vaguely orange striped

but mostly gray month-and-a-half
old kitten landed at Broadlawn Inn.
A dinner party was already late
starting so the owner-managers—
doubling as cook and waitress—shut
her in the waitress’ room with a
light lunch and improvised but ade-
quate toilet facilities.

By midnight is was apparent that
the new arrival was far from shy,
and by morning everyone knew that
she was going to get full dollar
value in the way of room service.
Only one name occurred to anyone:
ELOISE

Before spring ended Eloise was
running the place, which, unlike
most Maine inns, had an art gallery
in its big square barn, attached to
the house by a harness room. Guests,
exhibiting artists, and friends of the
family got identical treatment: cas-
ual acceptance of admiration and in-
difference to praise.

Each car that parked along the
driveway overnight had a pattern
of pawprints on its top—whether
in morning dew or in inch-deep
snow. Life as an inn cat agreed.
with Eloise and she was quick to see
the advantage of the unobStrusive
concern for the comfort of others
that earned the small hostelry its
valued reputation.

When the waitress half of the
managemnt went to New York to
edit a weekly newspaper, Eloise
stayed on with the cook half and
the schoolboy and the housekeeper,
spending another summer, kept busy

 

with vacationers and changing ex-
hibitions.

Then came October, and an in-
vitation to close the inn for the
winter and live in a museum on
the edge of Greenwich Village.
“The Old Merchant’s House,” at
29 East Fourth Street, built in 1830,
was occupied for a hundred years
by the Seabury Tredwell family. The
tall hallways, long Stairways, and big
square rooms are just as they used
to be; the furnishings, the cup-
boards, the Dutch oven in the kit-
chen are the same now as when the
Tredwells were in residence . . . even
to the clothes in the close-ts in the
bedrooms—although these are now
called “costumes” and are displayed
on face-less ﬁgures behind glass.

Eloise and the Broadlawn Inn
folks (including the waitress-editor)
occupy what Manhattan realtors
refer to as “a ﬂoor through—-” and
part of another. These quarters are
“home” to Eloise . . but as any-
one knows who knows any cat—the
whole house is her castle!

 




 

 

PET DIGEST

 

 

 

 

 

 




.W «5-4: Lug“ .:

 

 

 

 

 

 

MEANING OF THE ZODIAC
By BLANCHE TANNEN

THE DRAWING OF THE SIGNS OF THE ZODIAC BY AURIEL BESSEMER IS FROM THE
BOOK ”VISUAL ASTROLOGY GUIDE" BY BLANCHE TANNEN—PUBLICATION SPRING I962.
ALL CREATURES ON EARTH—MAN AND BEAST ALIKE, ARE INFLUENCED BY THE COSMIC
RAYS FROM THE PLANETS IN OUR SOLAR SYSTEM. THE ANCIENTS NAMED THE I2
SIGNS ACCORDING TO THE INFLUENCES THEY HAD ON THOSE BORN, WHEN THE
EARTH (IN IT’S YEARLY CYCLE AROUND THE SUN) WAS IN A PARTICULAR SIGN FOR
THAT MONTH. BELOW IS LISTED THE SIGN’S STARTING DATES FOR THE SUN-EARTH
INFLUENCE, GIVEN FOR ITS SYMBOL IN RELATIONSHIP TO THE DRAWING.
ARIES—MARCH 20’rh. ”THE RAM”, THESE NATIVES WANT FREE REIN; WHEN BLOCKED,
THEY RAM THEIR WAY THROUGH LIFE, USING THEIR HEADS.

TAURUS—APRIL 20’rh. “THE BULL” QUALITY ARE INHERENT IN THOSE BORN IN THIS
SIGN. FORCE, DETERMINATION AND TENACITY, CAN ALSO BE THE CONTENTED COW.
GEMINI—MAY 2151'. ”THE TWINS”, THE DUAL PERSONALITIES OF THESE NATIVES
WITH THEIR ACTIVE IMAGINATION AND MOBILE EXPRESSION, ARE SOLEMN OR GAY.
CANCER—JUNE 215?. ”THE CRAB”, THESE NATIVES, LIKE THE CRAB, ATTAIN THEIR
OBJECTIVE BY WALKING BACKWARD TO REACH IT, CHARACTERISTIC OF THEIR TIMIDITY.
LEO—JULY 23rd. IITHE LION”, THOSE BORN IN THIS SIGN, HAVE THE PRIDE AND
COURAGE OF THE KING OF THE BEASTS.

VIRGO—AUGUST 23rd. ”THE WHEAT STAFF” REP’RESENTS THE HARVESTERS. THESE
WORKERS DESIRE TO SERVE OTHERS.

LIBRA—SEPTEMBER 23rd. ”THE SCALES”, THESE NATIVES ARE ENDOWED WITH A
KEEN SENSE OF BALANCE AND JUSTICE FOR ALL.

SCORPIO—OCTOBER 24th. "THE SCORPION & EAGLE” ARE THE TWO EXTREMES THE
SIGN GIVES, TO STRIKE OR SOAR ABOVE, LIKE THE EAGLE.
SAGITTARIUS—NOVEMBER 23rd. ”THE ARCHER”, INDICATES THOSE BORN HERE, HAVE
THE ABILITY TO HIT THEIR TARGET FROM ANY ANGLE.

CAPRICORN—DECEMBER 22nd. “THE MOUNTAIN GOAT”, EXEMPLIFIES THE AMBITION
OF THESE NATIVES TO CLIMB TO THE TOP.

AQUARIUS—JANUARY 2th. “THE WATER BEARER” SHOWS THE FLOW OF KNOWLEDGE
POURED FROM THE VESSEL OF WISDOM THESE NATIVES GIVE MANKIND.
PISCES—FEBRUARY I9’rh. ”THE FISHES", THIS SYMBOL SHOWS THESE NATIVES WANT
TO GO IN TWO DIRECTIONS SIMULTANEOUSLY. EMOTIONALLY THEY REACH THE
GAMUT.

9




PET DIGEST

"THE PURE-BRED"
EDITOR’S MAIL-BAG

 

 

 

to know so many readers have

indicated they are glad to have
a pure-bred dog section in PET
DIGEST. Like the little snowball that
gets rolled up into a giant one, we
hope this section will gather in due
time momentum in all areas of pure-
bred dog topics. It is slanted pres-
ently, for the readers who have
Other than pure-breds as well as ones

IT HAS MADE me feel very happy

BY JANET MACK

your dog keeping it on leash, you
are also protecting it against
tragedy and also having consid-
eration and respect for the prop-
erty of others, as well as the
pedestrians who may or may not
prefer dogs. I urge a more string-
ent law everywhere on dogs being
on leash and heavier penalties,
even jail for ones breaking the
law in this respecr.

with pet and show-dogs. Many own~ Q. The fellow I go steady with
ers of mixed-breeds love these dogs doesn’t like my dog and is nasty
but often to themselves say they to her. Sould I get rid of my
will next time try to afford a pure- dog?
bred. Now for answers to a few A. Get rid of your beau and fast.
of the letters sent in. Every home needs a dog far more
Q. I would like to know more about than a dog-hater.
certain breeds of dogs? One of Q. How can I get into dog breeding?
my friends tries to get to join I don’t know much, if anything.
the dog club she belongs to. A. Try to ﬁnd a job in a pet shop,

Should I? .And would it teach
me about dogs?

A. Overlook the dog club presently.
I’m mailing you a list of books
to read. Buy, beg or borrow all
of them and study their contents
and become informed on dogs.

A. One of my friends says it is cruel
to always take your dog out for
a walk on a leash. Hers runs
ahead and behind her and nearly
is run over many times. Am
I fair to my dog, always keeping
it on leash?

A. Nor only are you considerate of

small kennel, or where there are
a few dogs in a home, after
school, Saturdays, and holidays.
Kennel-keping is good house-
keeping for dogs instead of for
people. Hard work, pleasant and
menial is the most of it, at the
beginning. Later work for a
breeder where puppies are bred
and raised. Learn ahead of expect-
ing to “earn” as it costs in money
and time of your employer to
teach you from the beginning
what a dog person must know
well.

 

 

 

 

 




 

“THE PURE-BRED”

WHAT BREED OF DOG FOR ME????

Buy in haste and you’ll ﬁnd your-
self in a peck or more of trouble
and more than likely for a long time.
There are all sizes, shapes, colors,
and characteristics represented in the
115 breeds of dogs recognized by
The American Kennel Club. The
eeney-meeney-miney-mow system of
buying a dog is far out dated by
anyone seeking the right dog to ﬁt
into their home as well as ﬁt their
pocketbook. Many satisfactory pets
are had from shelters but n0t know-
ing the ancestral background poses
risk and other problems. It costs the
same to maintain a pure-bred dog,
even less often, than the dog that
found its way to a shelter through
being unwanted and often neglected
in. many ways.

Let me suggest that ahead of buy-
ing any dog you look around and
see the dogs owned by your neigh-
bors and others and discern which
ones you like best and for what
reasons. Read anything available that
is written authoritively on these and
orher breeds and prepare yourself
with as much information as you
can before contacting source-s where
information of reliable breeders may
be had. Breeders who want the right
homes with the right people for
their dogs, and who offer endless
cooperation. There are many, who
once a sale is made and the dog
gone and payment had, end it there.
Analyze the breeder and seller to
make sure you are buying from
one with genuine heart interest in
the welfare of their little dogs, not
merely money grabbers.

Give as much, even more consid-
eration, when buying a dog, to make
sure it ﬁts you and your environment,

EDITOR’S

MAIL-BAG

as you would when buying shoes to
wear that ﬁt and are comfortable.
The breed suitable for one person can
be a complete misﬁt for someone
else. Buying the right dog for you
can be an enjoyable and compen-
sating adventure. Buying the wrong
dog can mean misery and increasing
disappointment.
WESTMINSTER KENNEL CLUB
ANNUAL DOG SHOW

Is the nation’s No. 1 canine event,
held in February annually at the
Madison Square Garden, New York
City. It’s often referred to by the
layman as “the Madison Square
Garden Dog Show.” This is a Blue
Ribbon event in every way. To be
entered every dog musr have gained
a blue ribbon ahead of the show.
Puppies cannor be entered, this being
a somewhat recent ruling, and an
excellent one. Nowadays dogs come
from every state in the Union, Can-
ada, South America and abroad. This
is a big indoor event, and it was
ﬁrst held in 1877. I wonder how
many of us ever stopped to realize
that the sport of showing dogs be-
gan ahead of the building of Egypt’s
pyramids. In U. 8. around 1870 an
interest in showing dogs for com-
parison one with another, got its
start. Many dogs shown were not
pure-bred; no stud book records
were in existence at that time. The
ﬁrst bench show was held in Hemp-
stead, L. I. in 1874. Dishonesty
flourished to such an extent that in
September 1884 a group of gentle-
men met in Philadelphia to consider
and form a National Bench Show

,Association, later to be named The

American Kennel Club. First off was
the Stud Book that was Started——
a record of the paternity of all pure-

11

 




 

PET DIGEST

bred dogs. Every phase of the sport
of dog breeding and showing of
pure-bred dogs is “ruled” by the
American Kennel Club, which nowa-
days is made up of clubs that repre-
sent each and every recognized
breed. These clubs in turn are made
1p of individual members fostering
interest in favored breeds. The oldest
sporting event in America is the
Kentucky Derby; Westminster is
second to that. In the beginning it
was considered a mark of social
prestige to show a dog at Westmin-
srer. H.M. Queen of England once
sent over two Deerhounds; the Czar
of Russia, a Siberian Wolfhound.
Prizes ran from Gold and Silver
mounted revolvers, to even more
valuable and larger ones. Today rib-
bons and sterling pieces, for the most
part along with medals are the
awards. Today exhibitiors are in the
main those of somewhat modest
means who love dogs and wish to
breed the near-to-perfect one of the

Rhﬁﬁ‘i’i}

breed they favor. Plan to attend

this year as well as see it over TV,

all or in part including the ﬁnale.
ONCE IN A LIFETIME

Match dog shows are the proving
ground for young, inexperienced
dogs with promise of being winning
show dogs when matured. If you
have a pure-bred good dog, one in-
dicating it possesses quality, put the
dog and yourself in practice in a
Match Show. These are under Amer-
ican Kennel Club sanction. Some of
the top winning dogs made their
start in a Match Show. To barge into
any AKC point Show with an in-
experienced ‘and nor tested dog, and
moreover brought there by an owner
lacking know-how of presentation
of his dog to its best advantage,
usually results in defeat.

Practice makes for perfeCtion in.
showing dogs and the earlier began,
so much the better. I can’t ever re-
member when a puppy of any breed
was judged Best Dog in any Match

' ﬁsherman air... .
' em:.‘;§,‘rsex ,

‘3‘?

 

 




 

“THE PURE-BRED” EDITOR’S MAIL-BAG

Show, but it’s just come to pass. At
the recent Ramapo Kennel Club
Match, a 7-months-old Italian Grey—
hound puppy bitch, “Marco Olim-
pia” gained that rare win in com-
petition with 133 other dogs, many
of these far beyond her tender age.
She was bred, owned and shown by
Mr. Marco Leynor of Greenwich Vil-
lage.

Marco Leynor, came to the United
States, in 1946, having been a pro-
fessional dancer with the Original
Ballet Russe of Colonel de Basil, and
with the group headed by Nina
Verchinina. In 1952, a student at
the Art Students League he won a
merit scholarship, followed by an-
orher in 1953 and in 1954 won the
Edward G. McDowell travelling
scholarship, a stipend of $2,500 ap-
proximated for travel and study in
Europe for a year. In 1956 on his
return he had his ﬁrst one-man show.
Marco has been praised by Julian
Levi, and ‘00 ill Barnet with whom he
Studied. His paintings are in many
private collections.

Craving a house pet and compan-
ion, an Italian Greyhound was ac-
quired. Off to a few dog shows and
the urge to breed and ShOW over-
took Marco Leynor as it has a legion
of today’s breeder-fanciers. Presently
several Italian Greyhounds and a
Saluki share this artist’s affection.
He set about learning the technique
of showing dogs, won Firsr Prizes in
Training classes attended, and is now
well on his way in dogs.

DOG STARS

In the heavens the dog star is
“Sirius.” In Noel Coward’s smash
hit musical comedy, the dog Star is
Pruneface Preacher, a Pug dog that
is silver-fawn with a black mask and

   
   

wrinkles aplenty. On opening night
in Boston the Pug “Adlai”—~named
for Adlai Stevenson put on a gen-
uinely prankish performance, which
drew gales of laughter from Lena
Horne (she’s a Pug owner), the
Duchess of Buccleugh, Marlene Die-
trich, Laren Bacall. The First Lady

Blame Snitch, starring in ”Sail Away”~—-
Noel Coward’s smash hit musical, am!
the Pug dog ”Prmzefrzce Preacher”

saw the show more than once later
and praised it highly including
“Adlai." Don’t be surprised if you
see Pugs bursting into daily fashion
ads, parading on TV and, already
in Harpers Bazaar, October there
they are. Get yourself a Pug and be
in the latest dog style. If you’d like
to know just a little about the Pug
Dog, here we go. They come in
fawn, also solid black, the latter are
nowadays rare. The breed originated
in China. Dutch East India traders
imported them to England, where
they became the favored pet of the
nobility.

l3

 




 

 

PET DIGEST

 

‘Bill’ Carr
Recipient of
The Albert Schweitzer Medal

BY DEAN WHITE

 

ILLIAM H. A. CARR was
RX/ recently presented with the

Albert Schweitzer Medal by
the Animal Welfare Institute in
recognition of outstanding writing
for the protection of animals.

Humanitarians by the score wit-
nessed this presentation by Christine
Stevens, President of the Institute.
Her tribute to “Bill” warmed the
hearts of all those who had the
privilege of seeing their favorite
pet editor being so deservedly
honored.

“Bill” Carr is well-known as the
Pet Editor of the New York Post.
He is responsible for increasing the
circulation of this daily due to the
desire of humanitarians to keep up
with his unusual splendid articles.
He is also the author of three paper-
back books this year, the most recent
being a biography of President
Kennedy. He has been a famous
newspaper reporter for more than
eighteen years. He has covered every-
thing from murders to pet shows.

Carr’s love of humans and animals
has literally endeared him to pet
owners throughout the land.

He was properly reared by a

14

 

Photo Courtesy of N. Y. Port

wonderful bitch (fox terrier, Boston
terrier, and God knows what else)—
named Patty, now gone on to more
interesting scents Beyond. He has
owned dogs, cats and birds. Bill
shares his house with two Standard
Schnauzers, a Toy Poodle and three
domestic short haired cats, and one
Golden Siamese—and a wonderful
wife who adores all animals too.

The male Standard Schnauzer is
an AKC champion with the obedi-
ence degree of Companion Dog, too.
He and Mrs. Carr breed Standard
Schnauzers.

This busy humanitarian who has
done so much for both canines and
felines has just been commissioned.
to write a cat book for publication
by Scribner’s, due in 1962.

The Albert Schweitzer Medal
couldn’t have been presented to a
better humanitarian. There isn’t a
cat or dog who wouldn’t agree with
this facr.

 




 

 
 

7f\

PM

 

- /\\\

 

er
Eager -

   

Birds Buld Better Citizens

BY DAVID

ONE OF THE greatest problems

facing the greatest country in

the world is Juvenile Delin-
quency. This magazine has time and
time again advocated pets as a
remedy for this black mark plaguing
our socrety.

Up till now, all efforts have been
made to supply a pet as a form of
therapy, to young deprived children.
But what about the millions of un-
fortunates who are beyond the age
of childhood? What can be done to
help the mature, affection starved
young people of the community?
Have their r00ts been secured be-
yond replanting?

Ironically enough, one remedy has
been supplied by the people in ques-
tion themselves. One has only to ride
th elevated subway and glance at
endless highways of rooftops, spotted
with thousands of isolated pigeon
coops, to realize the progress human-
animal relationship has made on
mankind. For here, on the rooftops
overlooking the breeding place of
crime and degradation, young people
strive to overcome the forces of their
environment. Here in their own
private Utopia, they can be creative,
productive and apart from the twist-
ed standards that rule their lives.

Pigeon Coops have become more
than just a hobby to these people——-

GINSBERG

it has become an obsession and a
good one at that. For in these peoples
little world where love and affection
is frowned upon as a sign of weak-
ness, they can give of themselves
freely, without any fear of how their
peers will View their actions. Here
they act naturally and selﬁshly and
proudly watch the results of their
efforts.

The (goops themselves are con-
structed precisely according to speci-
ﬁcations. A great deal of technical
and mechanical dexterity is needed
and even a greater amount of pati-
ence and understanding. Food is
constantly supplied to the needy
winged companions and continuous
training is given so that the birds
do not ﬂy away and never return.
After the birds learn this, they are
taught such things as carrying mes-
sages and eating from the trainers
hand. \Y/hat progress that is aCtually
made rests solely on the trainers
shoulders and this sense of respon-
sibility greatly enhances the indi-
viduals desire to be productive.

The Pigeon Coop is only a start,
but a start is the ﬁrst step to any
accomplishment and the credit be-
longs to nobody except the cour-

‘ ageous people who attempt to take

the morsels of a deprived life and
build from it a solid foundation for
better citizens.

15

 




 

 

I
: 1959 INTERNATIONAL GUPPY SHOW WINNERS
I ENDORSE RUT-KING, WORLD’S FINEST FISH FOOD
I

I

“Rut-King Guppyzllgoodfgagﬁ me(1ih(e1 MIRACLE FOOD? N0, Rut-
erfectl balance ry oo nee e , , . ‘

: :0 bringy my entries to peak condi- ng wont work mliacles. BUt l

tion.”

Ed Hazle, 1st Prize—Red Triangle

With good basic stock —— and by l

following the breeding hints l
“Rut-King is the only dry food I fed . .
my fish. With the results that I got, glven free With every can of Rut- I
I’m a Rut-King fan 100%.”

J B t ', 1 tP ° . . .
0e 3135,1311; vilifgﬁ get superior ﬁsh Wlth Rut-King. l

King Food —— you are bound to l

“Rut-King, along with live fOOd as At stores, or send $2.39 for 6 8 l
KOHig’S Feeding — Your Key to weeks’ supply. Satisfaction I
Champion Gupples, were important
helps in developing our winners.” Guaranteed.
Ed Cahn, John Giuffre,
1st Prize—Black Triangle

Y0“, too, can get superior fish when :2)“ 90A” JC‘IéOWJA‘.’

I
|
l
I
I
you feed Rut-King Fish Foods . . . l
GUPPY FOOD, PRO®, BOOSTER®, “4’6”, ” JG”; |
l BEEF MEAL, SHRIMP MEAT. In 5’ 9 l
6 oz., 1 1b., 5 1b., canisters. And now
in convenient 1% oz. cans for en- I
l thusiasts who want the best. If your l
l
l
|
l

I dealer is not yet stocked, send his RUT-KING BlO-QUATICS

name and address. Get price list and

I copy of Rutkowski & Konig’s Feed- 824 Rebecca Pl., Elizabeth, N. J-
mg — Your Key to Champion Gup-

l pies FREE. Elizabeth 3-4872

 

MANATUCK FARM
1559 Manatuck Road
Bayshore, L. l., N. Y.

  
   
   

    

recommended by
PET DIGEST

“A
”Vin I'IIID 1’""‘

Suggests that you purchase a HAMSTER at your favorite pet counter. HAMSTERS

make the most delightful, intelligent, odorless and most friendly pets.

 

 

 

 

. liloe .formal- dog .J/OOtU i5 [em t/omz one-blitzdred year; old—MW
mdzcm‘mg tbezr mpzd me to prominence. .

16

 




 

Your Veterinarian has

ecturaL.

ngfr
3/\ (Ir

 
 
   
 

Q
4
Q3; ‘ .

   
    

‘Tr

   

a pill that kills fleas, lice...even ticks

Now you can keep your dog free of fleas, lice, and ticks without using smelly, messy sprays,
powders, or dips. Tests by veterinarians show that Ectoral, taken every other day for eight
days, then just once weekly, can eliminate these troublesome parasites entirely in most cases.
I Ectoral works from the inside out—killing the fleas, lice, and ticks that prey on your dog.
Used regularly, in the amount recommended by your veterinarian, Ectoral can safely protect
your dog against external parasites and the skin diseases they cause. I Though more effec-
tive, Ectoral costs no more than the regular application of potent insecticides—and is far
more convenient to use. Ask your veterinarian about this unique new way to control fleas,
lice, and ticks. Ectoral is available only from veterinarians.

PITMAN-MOORE COMPANY°ALLIED LABORATORIES "
DIVISIONS OF THE Dow CHEMICAL COMPANY. INDIANAPOLIS s. INDIANA /

recommended by
S' “

PET DIGEST"

4s x14
‘QDVERTISED THERE

the pill that kills fleas, lice, and ticks on dogs.

    
   
   

 

17

 




 

    

LEFT - RIGHT
DR. JOHN HIGGINS,
speaker from the Animal
Medical Center, HARRY
MILLER, Chairman, Dog
Fanciers Luncheon Club,
COL. DAVIS, famous
judge and BETH
BROWN, noted author.

Photo—Dana”

 

 

   

Harm, Part-ridge Dog 0f Drente, imported from Holland by Leonor: Schamroth

 

 

 




 

Miss L. Read Deveteux
(left), Chairman of
the Junior Committee,
and Mrs. William Paul
Hoﬁ‘mann, Chairman,
make plans for the
Animal Kingdom Ball
to beneﬁt the ASPCA
Adoption Service.

   

Our Associate Editor when a small boy

-—-David Nadler

 

  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  

 

These two appealing animals atelf .I‘ ‘

 

the emblem of Friends of Am-

mals, Inc, a humane agency ded; _- .31“ "

icated to the prevention bf cmel- ‘ - ..
ty to animals through contrOI of ‘

T'the breeding of pets—to the end

that every animal born will be

i ‘ . assured of a good home and pro—'

tecuon. Pboto- Walter C bandoba

 

 




PET DIGEST

 

. Mum)“ “A. .u wathy ’

",_._,__,,_ Wm ....,-_

Pbom by Charles Sm KEECHI, the beloved. ._
herd of Mr. and Mrs M B

 




HELP US SAVE THIS OLD HOUSE!
BEFORE IT IS TOO LATE!

Each year, buildings of historic interest are torn down to “make way for
progress.” Our old City is last disappearing, and what is gone can never
be brought back! So few old New York homes remain that people crowd

the movies to see, in plays—what they looked like.

Yet, here in Fourth Street, stands the home of a leading merchant, one of
those who helped to make New York the greatest City in the world to-day.
You can mount its marble steps, ring the bell, and with the opening of its
door, he carried back to the 1830’s, into the life of the Seabury Tredwell

OLD MERCHANTS HOUSE family, who lived there for over a hundred years.
29 East 4th Street. New York City

You can pass through stately rooms, with priceless furnishings. You can see the lovely gowns their ladies wore; and
the silver, china, glass, on which their meals were served. You can study titles of the books they read, and the newspapers
that headlined Lincoln’s assassination, and battles in the Civil War. You can peer down into a “secret space,” though no
one living now can tell you for what purpose this was used. Richly embroidered pieces hang upon the walls, in one a
needle full of wool still waits for a lady’s ﬁnishing. The whole house whispers of their lives—everything you see was

theirs.

And everything to-day is yours—in this museum! For no one comes in here who does not ﬁnd something of his own—
even if it’s just a memory. Perhaps of some old house his family owned—they were New Yorkers, too. Or pictures he
has loved to look at when a child, in his grandmother’s cherished albums. It is time caught standing still for all of us.

A bit of old America to pass down to our children and the generations coming after.
Can we afford to lose it now?

It must have money to keep on! By giving a little you can help a lot. A'yearly subscription of 35.00 will make you an
associate member and give you admission during visiting hours, to the only house of its kind open to the public in New York.

We can save it if we work together! Won’t you help this old house carry on?

Please send check or money order to

ﬁtntnrir Eanhmark ﬁnttetg. lint.
29 East 4th Street, New York 3, N. Y.

Visiting Hours. Weekdays, ll A.M. to 5 P.M.
Sundays and Holidays, 1 P.M. to 5 P.M.
Admission 50c (to non-members)

HISTORIC LANDMARK SOCIETY

Incorporated I935
TRUSTEES

FENWICK BEEKMAN, M.D., Director, The Beekman Estate.

President, New York Historical Society‘
GEORGE CHAPMAN. Trustee Eno Trust. great-nephew of Seabury Tredwell
CLARENCE G. MICHALIS, Chairman, Seamen's Bank for Savings

President. Seamen'a Church Institute

JOHN WALDEN MYER, Director, Museum of the City of New York

LOUIS SEABURY WEEKS, architect, great-grandson of Bishop Samuel Seabury.

 




PET DIGEST

 

 

 

 

E.

‘
\

‘ 31' W95;-

J 1"». ‘
. :

(pr
*2-

Ib. I
‘3!

 

 

 

 

 

 

"He bam’t been the same since "I picked them
be Jaw Wyatt Erp on TV!”

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

       
  
    

.a
' " . . . ' )5 ‘16"
. u. ’

... m. _. -. . -~ - - wuv’"‘~;n~
'3‘? “$3. ‘ g. V~ C'rMAu.
‘1‘ a .
J, '3! '
‘ I

(1%;

ll

 

d:"
d
‘-—' .
§ ‘- all all
3 L

 

 

 

 

 

. .,...7.‘V “a“.
c v v' .I,

  

 




reco
m
mended
by

PE
T DIGEST

91$

4 s
HE?”

A
D
VE
RTISED T

 




 

 

Author
and

Feline

Friend

BY HEDY WHITE

Although sociologist and cat-lov-
ing Claudia de Lys has been work-
ing on a large manuscript, YOUR
CAT: FACT AND SUPERSTI—
TION, she managed to compile and
edit a collection of short modern
true cat stories contributed by
friends and acquaintances, among
them Fannie Hurst, Princess Alex-
andra Kropotkin, and others. This
is an Anthology on CAT “PERSON-
ALITIES,” which will be offered to
the reading public in the not too
distant future.

Despite the skepticism which is
fairly widespread in different de-
grees among ailurophobes (cat-hat-
ers), Claudia de Lys maintains that
domestic cats are not only generally
always highly individualistic—with
“personalities” all their own—but
but they are loving and lovable, and
in many instances act as therapists.
She further claims that, at last, the
cat is fasr regaining its former
popularity as a pet—which prevailed
in Ancient Egypt. The cat, always
photogenic, is now employed in vari-
ous types of advertising as a favo-
rite and glamorous subject, not to
mention its appearance on the stage,
occasionally.

Furthermore, cats are coming into

 

Claudia ale Lys and Inlay

their own as mousers, too, bridging
the gap between many centuries, in
that role, when felines were not only
appreciated for their activties, but
they were believed sacred—not to be
killed, short of severe punishment;
they were employed then as living
exterminators of vermin to be found
in the large granaries of the Egypt-
ians, and Others. They were good
mousers then; they still are, and we
need them more than ever before
since, statistically speaking, it is
claimed that rats outnumber people
here and elsewhere.

It should be stated, in passing,
that cats do perform a valuable serv-
ice in infested areas these days, and
dispose of destrucrive vermin on
farms, cities and towns. Actually,
cats are ofﬁcially listed on payrolls
where perishable goods are located,
and save their employers of what
would otherwise add up to millions
of dollars of damaged goods and
property.

As though writing several books
at once were not enough, Claudia
de Lys has been acrive in designing
a special line of cat objects, which
will be marketed at some later date.
She also plans to share some of her
proﬁts with various humane societies.

25

 




 

Reindeer Have the
Right of Way
011 Roads or

Tracks in Sweden

BY JANE HIGHTON

QC ATCH OUT for reindeer on
KX/ the road,” the gasoline
station attendant said.

“Running one down can cost you
plenty.” .

Mororists heading for Sweden’s
frozen north also heard a warning
over the radio. This one was issued
by the Sheriff of Jokkmokk, which is
a Lapp center just inside the Arctic
Circle. It stressed the economic blow
to reindeer-herding Lapps from the
loss of any part of the source of their
livelihood.

The Sheriff warned that reindeer
were arriving in great numbers from
the mountains to graze for the win-
ter in lower and consequently more
populated areas.

Some could be spotted resting on
roads made narrower by snowdrifts
plowed up on either side. Others
ambled along railroad tracks. The
laws of this north country provide
that, on railroad tracks and roads
alike, the reindeer that has the right
of way.

A motorist driving in the long
northern night is held responsible
for hitting a reindeer even if the ani-
mal suddenly leaps from the dark-
ness into his path. The incident
must be reported as soon as possible
to the nearest sheriff.

26

 

If the reindeer is seriously injured,
the motorist is required to kill it.
Olof Nordgren, Sheriff of Jokkmokk,
has frequently requested that drivers
carry hatchets for this purpose.

Failure to end the animal’s suffer-
ing, or to get help in doing so, is
punishable under Swedish law by
heavy ﬁnes or a jail sentence.

Causing the death of a reindeer,
however, brings the added responsi-
bility of paying compensation to the
Lapp owner, who can be identiﬁed
through the markings cut into the
animal’s ears.

Payment ranges from $10 or $20
for a calf up to $40 for a full-
grown bull. But a hit-and-run mo-
torist can be more severely ﬁned, if
caught, the Sheriff said.

Abandoning the scene of an ac-
cident is considered a crime, whether
the victim is a reindeer or human.

The Swedish State Railway has
tried everything it can think of to
keep reindeer away. Scarecrows only
frighten the animals onto the track.
A malodorous bomb attracts them.
Locomotives with loudspeakers blar-
in recordings of dogs barking con—
tinued to run over reindeer.

Railway ofﬁcials say the only an-
swer is to build fences. But the
Lapps object to this.

 

 

 




 

 

ADVERTISEMENT

Don’t Take Chances With Your Cat’s Life!

The very thought of losing your cat is
frightening enough; but if you lost your
cat because you failed to protect your
pet, you would feel that much worse.

You will be delighted to learn, there-
fore, that you need not take chances
with the life of your pet. Here — at last
-— is the first truly safe collar for cats.

Why Is This Collar Truly Safe?

Designed by a cat lover out of neces-
sity, and acclaimed by cat fanciers,
veterinarians, and representatives of
many pet organizations, the SAFETY
CAT COLLAR eliminates hooking or
hanging on trees and branches outdoors,
and furniture or other obiects indoors.
It is made of smooth leather-type mate-
rial and sturdy elastic fabric, is soft and
comfortable to wear, and adiustable to

the size of each individual cat’s neck.

This collar is safe because if kitty
should hook, the elastic stretches — cats
cannot choke to death or hang. lf nec-
essary, the metal adiuster automatically
pops off, giving your cat plenty of room
to escape.

Why Use Any Cat Collar?

All cats should wear collars because it

4o “(4‘
‘sznnun 1“"

shows that they are not strays. The collar
also serves as a means of hanging an
identification tag on the cat.

But what about the cat owner whose
cat never goes outdoors? The answer is
that once may be too late! The papers
are filled with ads for lost house-cats

  
  

recommended by

PET DIGEST

 

The Best Collar For Your Cat

who slipped out the open door with
wide-eye curiosity and never returned —-
simply because there was no collar to
show the person who picked up the cat
that the pet belonged to someone who
loved this kitty dearly.

Protect YOUR Cat

You can purchase the SAFETY CAT
COLLAR from Alexander Originals, 51
East 9th Street, New York 3, N. Y. The
price is only $1.00 for each collar. State
size when ordering: Small (up to 71/2”),
Medium (71/2” to 91/2”), and Large
(91/2” to ill/2”). Choose white, pink,
blue, or red, each with smooth-fastened
durable decorations of white pearls. Col-
lars will be sent postpaid by return mail.

27

 




 

 

 

 

 

A Dog’s Ears

0 000000000000
0.0400.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.00.0

BY RAYMOND THOMPSON

wears one), a dog’s ears are a
most important part of a ca-
nine’s general appearance. Over a
period of ~many years, certain stand-
ards have been established by dog
breeders, individual breed clubs, and
the American Kennel Club (in the
USA.) to determine just what the
purebred dog must “wear” in the
shape, size and position of the ears.
We receive many letters from dog
owners on all sorts of problems per-
taining to dogs. One correspondent
complained, “The judge didn’t know
my breed of dogs; he penalized my
entry a whole 20 points because of
faulty ears. Isn’t that an excessive
penalty?”

In our reply we advised the com-
plainant that his particular breed of
dog carried a total of 20 points on
the Head and Ears and that is was
unlikely a judge would discredit the
entire 20 points for faulty ears alone,
as the grand total on Standard of
Points is only 100, and we doubted
if any judge would risk his reputa-
tion by penalizing a dog so dras-
tically. We suggested that perhaps
our correspondent had misunder-
stood the judge’s ruling.

The importance of the dog’s ears
in official scoring at AKC shows
varies considerably in different
breeds. In the above-mentioned
case, the dog’s Bars and Head were
judged on a 20-point score. Let’s
examine a few Scales of Points on
speciﬁc breeds:

In the Shetland Sheepdog, judging
the. entire head covers 20 points of
which the Eyes, Ears and Expression

28

I IKE A MAN’S hat (when he

mm x . .
Maura y..,. ,7 .4 v. 5‘ ,v..v»”M,_,~ . 1.,” .

count for 10 points.

The Welsh Corgi is allowed 15
points for the Head, with ﬁve points
for the Eyes and 10 points for the
Ears.

In the Scale Of Points for the Aire-
dale Terrier, 10 is the maximum for
a perfect Head WITH NO BREAK-
DOWN FOR EITHER EARS OR
EYES.

The Border Terrier is judged on
a score of 20 points for Head, Ears,
Neck and Teeth. Eyes—surely a
part Of the Head are allowed up
to 10 points, including Expression.

The Dinmont Terrier is judged
on a scale of 10 points EACH for
Head, Eyes and Ears.

Here’s an extreme example. The
Foxhound is allowed only ﬁve points
for a perfect head WITH NO REF-
ERENCE TO EARS IN THE EN-
TIRE SCALE OF POINTS. Yet an-
other—the Borzoi’s ears are rela-
tively unimportant—scaling a maxi-
mum Of three points.

In fairness to this apparent con-
fusion in standards—remembering
that all points mentioned are on a
tOtal scale of IOO—we must realize
that in certain breeds of dogs the
ears are of special importance in
judging the general appearance.

A few examples: Ears of a Ger-
man Shepherd should be moderately
pointed, carried ereCt when at at-
tention, and ideal when the center
lines of the ears viewed from the
front are parallel to each other and
perpendicular to the ground. Crop-
ped or hanging ears are extreme
faults.

Great Dane Ears should be high,

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

A DOG’S EARS

set not too far apart and medium in
size. Cropped ears allowed; well
pointed but always in proportion to
the shape of the head and carried
uniformly erect. Faults (of ears):
Hanging on the side, as on a Fox-
hound.

Siberian Husky: Ears of medium
size, erect, close—ﬁtting, set high on
head. Faults: Low-set ears, ears too
large or lop ears.

Chihuahua: Ears large, held ereCt
when alert, but ﬂaring at the sides
at an angle of 45 degrees when in
repose.

Bloodhound: The ears are ex-
tremely long, thin and soft to the
touch, set very low and fall in grace-
ful folds.

There you have a few examples of
what a judge Of show dogs is up
against. Visit an all-breed canine
show and you will quickly under-
stand why so many charges of “fav-
oritism,” “ignorance of the breed,”
etc., are often leveled at the judge.
We have referred to only a very
small portion of the dog’s anatomy
in our brief discussion of the Ears,
and a competent judge is required to
know the standards of All Points of
several breeds of dogs.

No mention has been made of the
dog’s ears as useful appendages.
Naturally a dog doesn’t require
show-type ears to be a good trailer,
retriever or all-around hunting dog.
The texture of ears, with their rela-
tive thickness or thinness, is believed
by breeders of hounds to have a
relationship to the sense of small; if
this be true, it is no wonder that
Bloodhounds, for example, perform
so remarkably on a “cold” trail.

Perhaps it is only a coincidence,
but right in the middle of this vig—

nette on dogs, my little girlfriend,
Shirley Gannon, dropped in dragging
a lop-eared canine that would cer-
tainly stump any dog expert. Shir-
ley’s dog, “F’end,” she calls him,
has mOSt unusual ears, all SIX of
them! The ears, believe it or not,
are an accumulation or inherited
trait from three generations of Rag-
doggia.

F’end No. 1, became so bedrag-
gled, Shirley’s parents replaced the
ears with some new ones. At bed-
time Shirley screamed in righteous
indignation. Mr. G., alone babysit-
ting at the time, in desperation
sewed the old ears on, and F’end
No. 2, a quadruple-eared canine,
came into being.

But the rejuvenated F’end wasn’t
up to the extra burden and its torso
played out from being dragged
around so much by four ears.

When Shirley last visited us, she
had a new dog—F’end No. 3, all
new, including extra-long lop ears,
plus the four ears from the departed
F’end No. 2. We‘ve made note of
all this, wondering what will happen
in the next generation of F’ends.

In all seriousness, we suspect that
a lot of people with a yen for show-
type dogs could well proﬁt from lit-
tle Shirley’s example. You couldn’t
fool a two-and-one-half—year-old
child with substitute ears on her
pet, and a thorough knowledge of
breed standards can only be gained
from serious study and practice in
judging dogs.

We shall be pleased to recom-
mend reliable books on the subject,
and of course you should visit any
kennels raising the breeds in which
you are, or might become, interested
in.

29‘

 




 

 

PET DIGEST

MR. CAT

 

 

 

 

by George Freedley
Foreword by Lillian Gish
Drawings by Victor S. DowIing

 

 

 

 

 

A frankly sentimental biography,
now in its fourth printing, by the
well-known theatre historian,
George Freedley.

“A DELIGHTFUL BIOGRA-
g‘gg”—CARL VAN VECH-

5‘A PERFECT PRESENT FOR
ANYONE WHO OWNS A
Egg”—DOROTHY KILGAL-

MR. CAT is mailed in a special
box with a charming picture of
himself on the cover. We will
mail it for you with your own
gift card if you wish. $3.00 at
most book stores or from the
publisher.

HOWARD FRISCH BOOKS

114-116 Christopher St,
New York 14, N. Y.

 

 

 

30

""W"W'Frrwmmmuwmm/ , “a. .1 , -- .

 

THE COMPLETE WONDER
VITAMIN AN D MINERAL
FORMULA. FORTIFIED WITH
LIPOTROPIC FACTORS AND

VITAMIN E. FOR YOUR
FAVORITE
DOG and CAT

recommended by
PET DIGEST

1‘1
“Is 39‘
“sznnsno “‘9

THERE IS NO BETTER
VITAMIN FOR YOUR PET
zaﬁezeﬁamama
PET HEALTH Inc, Box 572
Ansonia Sta. N. Y. 23, N. Y.
ﬁaaaaeaan

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

wFEJ—EJE’J'EIEJEFEI?Wl'E’J“El—EUEJEFE’J

'V'VVVVVVVVVV'VVVVVVVVVVVVVV‘VV'V'VVVV‘VVYVYVVV

 

 

 

 

[DHWBEQM
éu“$u Dme‘D
Ar/LM/ar-«MR use;
SQP‘WLLWCD“

 

&
Lllrm-

Janina.uuuiﬁ‘iﬁIFiiialiaavaiiuvmwaAVAuVAVJAV—mAuVAVAVAVAVAV.VAVA

E/E/

AE'A'AVL'A'A'A"V‘VAVAV‘V‘vAVAVAVAVAV‘VAVAV"‘V‘V‘VAVA'AV‘VAVAV‘V."V‘VAVL'A'A'.VAVAVAVAVA'A

 

 

 

,/:‘_
l\’\ Malt.

    

I‘D]

 

 

Noblest of Them All

BY JOHN CHRISTOPHER

EXT TIME Rover barks or wags

his tail, think of this: your

caine companion and his ilk
have served humanity since the
dawn of history.

Even Neanderthal man had
enough sense to recognize the dog
as an invaluable friend. Spear, club
——-and dog—were essential equip-
ment for him on every hunting ex-
pedition.

Each civilization knew the value
of its four-legged companions. Wall
murals of ancient Egypt depict vivid
hunting scenes—with agile Great
Danes featured. Many were mumiﬁed
and buried with their masters, to
serve them in anOther world.

Ancient Greeks saw that all their
gods were well supplied with dogs.
Orion the Hunter still has his faith-
ful Sirius at his feet—as a look to
the stars will show.

Boxers were ﬁrst used in attack-
ing bear and wild boar for Teutonic
tribes, and even the dachshund, "two
dogs long and half-a-dog high,” has
been a serious hunter of badgers,
rabbits, and foxes in Europe for
centuries.

In time other dog uses were dis-
covered—among the best was shep-
herding. Medieval serfs employed
the schnauzer, terrier-like and tall,
as a sheep dog. And the collie, be-
loved by children for generations,

31

 




 

’ 'WWW‘WWW ., m ,, . .i w .
1 . ..

 

PET DIGEST

was bred in Scottish Highlands for
heavy-duty shepherding. He proved
unusually sure-footed in guiding
skittish sheep along craggy paths.

Man learned that certain breeds
had scenting talent. The basset, one
of the ﬁrst discovered, was used
extensively in Gallic Pheasant hunts.

Across the channel, Cromwell out-
lawed deer parks, ending a most
popular gentleman sport. The "re-
tired” deer-tracking dog was then
developed for a new diversion—fox
hunting—and became the English
foxhund. This hardy creature can
still go 75 miles a day, at top speed
and through the roughest terrain——
without losing the scent.

And the bloodhound, all-time
champion scenter, who "tracks, but
never attacks”, has traced fugitives
for 250 years. Nick Carter, ace
Kentucky hound whose nose led
to more than 600 arrests, once
tracked an arsoniSt with a lOS-hour
head start.

But the bloodhound is a service
dog as well. His keen, radar nose
has helped return fugitive animals
for farmers, and saved lives in snif-

ﬁng for gas leaks.

Other rescue dogs have won man's
admiration and thanks. Exploits of
the St. Bernard in saving fallen
skiers and lost adventurers from icy,
mountain deaths are well known.

Huskies with "snow shoe feet”
pull supply-laden sleds at a steady
pace, despite icy terrain and chilling
winds, never pausing until at the
victim’s side.

A Newfoundland won fame for
his courageous rescue swim in 1919.
Aboard a sinking ship in waters too
rough for lifeboats, he was sent to
share, a line clenched in his jaws.
A breeches buoy was rigged to it
by rescuers—and 92 lives were
saved!

Such deeds as this, and an eternal
love between man and dog, have led
to legends of real life devotion.
Skippy, a faithful California dog who
loved his mistress dearly, guarded her
body for days after it was crushed
by an avalanche; and Boomer met
every train in his Kansas town for
years, skipping along cheerfully in
hope that his master would return.

Many breeds have proved their

 

requested.

 

32

NOTICE TO
ALL CAT CLUBS

The Greenwich Village Humane League has iust bought its own
buuldmg for the betterment of the entire feline family.

Your contributions to the Building Fund are cordially and urgently

Please send your check to the

GREENWICH VILLAGE HUMANE LEAGUE, INC.
51 EIGHTH AVENUE
New York 14, New York

 

 

 

 




 

 

NOBLEST OF THEM ALL

value to man through heroics, de-
v0tion, or labor, but one stands out—
as the. noblest of them all. Evolved
in the late 18005 for shepherding
and cattle-driving, the German
shepherd has developed into a udog
of all trades”.

As need for him on the range
declined, the German shepherd was
taught police work. By 1910 hun-
dreds were used in German con—
stabularies. Today he is known
throughout the world for this serv-
ice—Baltimore ofﬁcials credit him
with decreasing crime in that city.

The German shepherd saved
countless lives in both world wars—
knowing no uniform. He scented out
the wounded, carried messages and
supplies through heavy ﬁre, alerted
patrols against ambush, and guarded
coasts against saboteurs.

His military worth is even greater
today. A valuable sentry dog for

American and British bases, he was
recently introduced to Australia’s
ground-to-air missile stations and
radar control defense. Millions of
man hours a year are saved as he
stands guard in all corners of the
free world.

Another, perhaps the kindest
service he performs, is helping the
blind. As diligent substitute eyes,
he guides his master through haz-
ardous trafﬁc and around difﬁcult
obstacles. This safe travel affords
new-found mobility for thousands
of blind men and women.

As guide dog, sentry and rescuer,
the German shepherd is an intel-
ligent and faithful boon to humanity.
Just as his canine brothers helped
man ﬁght hunger for centuries, he
help-s restore the sightless to active,
self-sufﬁcient lives by providing
them with the means of getting
around.

 

HERITAGE, at STUD.

 

 

SMITH BASSET HOUND KENNELS

‘ Oldest Importers and Pioneer Breeders

FINE HUNTERS. LOVELY PETS. PUPS, HUNTERS, BROOD
MATRONS. SMITH’S YANKEE LAD II, and BELBAY

PICTURE FOLDER, INFORMATION SKETCH, SALES LIST

25c — 28 BASSET PICTURES, 50c.

SMITH BASSET HOUND KENNELS

ROUTE 6, KREPPS ROAD, XENIA, OHIO — DR 2-3804

       
    
 

mt

\. .
recommended by

PET DIGEST

 

 

33

 




' " ” ” “ ” ”0’0” ”0"o’°0"0’6‘0’66’0’6’66'6'0’b'66666666§666VW66666°O’Q6‘0'6’6'0'6
00.900.909.90. 0. 0.0.. .0 O. .0 O. O. O. .6 '0 O. O. 9. O. .0 O O. .0 O. O. .9 00 .Q .0 O O .0 O. .9 O. .0 O. .0 O. O. O. O. O Q. .0 Q. .0 O. Q

When traveling
by air
treat your pet

toa

stop-over at the

ASPCA ANIMALPORT

ASPCA ANIMALPORT, New York International
Airport, Air Cargo Center, Jamaica 33, N. Y.

 

For information call: Olympia 6-6042

 

CARDIGAN WELSH CORGI

Corgi puppies are beguil-
ing, comical little tikes.
They are very easily house-
trained and are the most
biddable of dogs. The
rapidity with which they ac—
quire the social customs of
the household is always a
surprise to their possessors.
They seem to be born with
a gift for family life.

0%

recommended by
PET DIGE S?

a 9‘
s Maven-near) “‘5“

 

 

   
   

 
  

KENCIA KENNELS

SCHAGHTICOKE, N. Y.

 

 

 

34

 

 

 




 

 

 

ALICE WERNHERR

Human - Animal

Photographer

By Appointment at

Your Home or Office

Phone: CHelsea 3-1929

 

 

OOOOOGOOG
00 00 .9

.00. 0°. 0°. 0°
00 09 .0 9.

OOOOOOOOOOQOOOO
O. 90 00 09 00

OOOOOOOOOO
O. O. O.

.0
O.

’0
00

”6
.0

Q9

00

.0

0000.0
00 99

dﬁb

O
O

0

©

 

 

0'6’6666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666§666
::OOOOOOOOOOQOOOQOQO....99..OQOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO0.0...O...0.00....”OOOOOQOOOOOOOOOOOOCO”... O”...
C 0

Clean, Cool, Sparkling Identification Collar. A
beautiful collar, custom made to fit all dogs.
Welded steel chain, chrome plated. Polished
stainless steel stenciled plate, your name and
address professionally done. Give breed and
measure around HEAD. Measure snugly.
Guaranteed to fit. Money back if not pleased.
C2-collar—2.50.

Matching leather and chain walking leash. Extra large hand loop.
30” top quality leather. 48” over-all. lO-leash—2.50.

Also Professional Quality leather collars. Write for free catalogue.
Slip Check Co., Centralia, Missouri

Photo Conrtexy of Friedntan-Aheles

Q§§§§§§§§QQQQ§§§§kJ§§§§§QQ§§§§§§§§ﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁl

 

=ll= =X< % >X< >ll< =X< =)l<

With Caroline (Kennedy’x little daughter) in the White H ome, there
is now a cat, canary, hanzytery, a yalaniander and “Charlie”, a dog.
The anian pnppy given by Khrushchev has been exiled to Glen
Ora, Kennedy’y conntry ettate in Virginia (It couldn’t get along
with the American dog. It may a cave of a cold noye war.)

=X< $8 :38 9% >ll= =)l¢ =X<

 

 

Q9

00

0””

O.

O

O. .0
O.

O

O.
0.

”0"0
.0 O.

 

69

O
O

O

"0’6'0’6'6’6'6'6’Q
O. O. O. O. .0 .9 O. .0 O.

.00..°OOOOO°OO°§O°
O. 09 .0 .0 O.

b

.9

00

0




PET DIGEST

\Y/hen seated in a
restaurant with a sight-
less person and his
guide dog is "at rest”
near him, never offer
the dog anything to eat.
His master has received
extensive training in
proper care and feeding
and attends to all the
dog’s wants every day.

 

When You Meet This Man

BY IRA TELLER

OU’VE SEEN him at a street trafﬁc . . . awaits the feel of a tug
corner, waiting for a light. at his left hand . . . then crosses
He listens for the rozmd of safely to the other side.

 

 

(I

If the answer is "yes”, offer your left

elbow to the canine-guided blind person.

To offer assistance to a blind man He’ll take your elbow with his right hand

crossino a street, approach from his right and, at the same time, drop the dog’s

side, and quietly ask if he would like harness handle putting him temporarily
your help. "oﬂ‘ duty.”

36

 

. . , ﬂ VW’WW/ll’f/ﬁ/ﬁf’l/«TI’WWUWWarmada é,fd‘m’.b‘+!‘ly’:~‘:n;~3_mmtm. m «WWW,

 

 

 




 

WHEN YOU MEET THIS MAN

He’s blind. The sounds he hears
are more sharply deﬁned than those
most of us sense; the tug is from.
a guide dog which is constantly at
his side.

Often, this sightless person may
need—and welcome—310m help. in
his world, assistance—from faithful
animal or human friend—is neces-
sary. But there are clearly deﬁned
ways of helping.

For example, it’s best to pause
and consider if the blind person re-
quires your assistance. If you think
“yes”——approach on his right side
(his dog is almost always at his
left)——-and ask, quietly, if he would
like your help.

The next step—according to
ofﬁcials at Guiding Eyes for the
Blind, a non-proﬁt organization
which trains guide dogs—is to offer
your left elbow, which he’ll take
with his right hand. At the same
time he’ll drop the harness handle
at his left—a signal for his dog
which puts him temporarily “off
duty”.

At no time should you take hold
of the dog’s harness, or make quick
moves which will startle either the
sightless man or his dog. And it’s
best n0t to touch a blind person
before you ask if he needs assistance.

After these preparations guide
the man across the street and over
the opposite curb. Once on the side‘-
walk, he’ll release your arm and
signal the guide to resume his duties
by raising the harness handle.

Incidentally, all guide dogs are
color blind; the only way they dis-
cern a “green” light from a “red”
is by traffic sounds and pedeStrian
reactions.

Guiding Eyes’

ofﬁcials suggest

Other “don’ts” of behavior toward
a guide dog in a public place——
seated by his master:

1. Don’t offer the dog anything to
eat. Your ﬁrst thought may be that
this devoted animal deserves a tasty
morsel in reward for his hours of
work. ACtually the dog’s carefully
balanced diet is supervised by his
master who received extensive train-
ing in proper care and feeding at
a month-long school session he com-
pleted before becoming qualified for
a guide dog.

Remember: the dog does his most
effective work when his strict diet
is followed.

2. Don’t pet a guide dog when
he’s in harness. Any interruption of
his regular routine may confuse him
and lead to real danger for his
master.

When out of harness, the guide
dog is much as any other canine;
he loves to romp and be petted. But
before playing with him, ask his
master’s permission.

3. Don’t be ove-rattentive toward
the dog at any time. This can be
very unsettling; again, at the risk
of possible danger for his master.

Overattentiveness—t o w a r d the
master—can be a “social error” as
well. Remember that the sightless
appreciate attention and friendship
just as anyone does, but they much
prefer natural behavior to patroniz-
ing ways.

One of the most rewarding ex-
periences for the new master is his
first reaction toward his guide dog.
He feels a regained sense of inde-
pendence; the ability to get along
on his own—and enjoy it with hlS
new partner.

How is his canine companion ob-

37

 




rained? Agencies such as Guiding
Fyes train selected German Shep-
herds, Boxers, Retrievers, Weimar-
aners and short-tailed Collies—best
for this work because of their tem-
perament and adaptability—then
train them further will) their in-
dividual masters.

Instruction periods for these dogs
begin between their 14th and 24th
months. It’s a continuing process

of selection; many are rejected as
the training progresses.

While a canine-guided blind per-
son may need your help at times,
he never needs your pity.

Thanks to the complete training
provided by organizations like the
Guiding Eyes’ school at Yorktown
Heights, N. Y., man and dog are
prepared to meet all normal situa-
tions with conﬁdence and dignity.
Their acceptance is up to you.

 

Way We 7&6

Posrpaid.

 

am 70¢ a 26616

   
        
  
     

We specialize in Training Cart and Sled and Pack Dogs, and
Manufacture Play and Racing Dog Sleds, Carts, Harnesses.
Packsacks for Dogs. Sled and Cart Dog Training Manual. $3.00

RAYMOND THOMPSON CO. , {I V]

Dept. O.P.W.
Alderwood Manor, Washington (State)

  

recommended by
PET DIGEST

‘Va 1‘“
‘°V Inn-co 1““

 

 

 

FOR BIRD FANCIERS

A specialty magazine for lovers of budgies,
canaries, ﬁnches, etc. Special offer, 6
months $1.00. American Cage-Bird
Magazine.
3449 N. WESTERN, DEPT. OP
CHICAGO I8, ILLINOIS

 

 

38

 

 

 

B E A G L E S
A.K.C. REGISTERED FIELD
CHAMPION SIRED BEAGLE PUPPIES

HILLSIDE BEAGLE FARM
CLARENCE E. POPE

1901 Frey Avenue—Hillsboro, Illinois
Residence Phone: KEIIogg 2-2648
Farm Phone: KElIogg 3-4553

 

 

 

 




 

 

AdoptL A Puppy or Kitten
HELP FIND A HOME FOR A PET

 

BIDE-A-WEE HOME ASSOCIATION, INC.
410 East 38th Street, Near East River, New York 16
LE 2-4455

During the ﬁscal year ended August 31, 1959, Bide-A-Wee placed
over 7500 dogs and cats as pets with private families. Our daily
population averages over 500 dogs and cats. In addition to pensioned
horses, frequently parrots, parrakeets, rabbits and now and then even
a monkey, are brought to us for care and treatment. Our two hospitals
and clinics, staffed by four veterinarians and several helpers, treated
over 18,300 cases during the ﬁscal year.

SUBSCRIBE TO THE
Bide-A-Wee Quarterly

Magazine!
$1.00 —— PER YEAR $2.00 — 3 YEARS
Write for Sample COpy
Published quarterly by the Bide-A-Wee Home Association, Inc.

a non-proﬁt organization devoted to animal welfare

 

 

 

39

 




 

 

jAe Wationa/ J4Mociation 0/ tAe
pet JIM/W, j...

(INC. UNDER THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK)

A MESSAGE

) To those who already own a dog, a cat, a bird or other pet, or who
already have an aquarium at home, it is quite unnecessary to speak of
the happiness these things bring.

Q However there are far too many who have not as yet experienced the
pleasure of owning a pet, and to you especially, is this message
directed.

b Whether it be a puppy or a kitten for the child to love, or a tank of ﬁsh
that will relax and fascinate both young and old, there can be little
doubt of the part a living pet can play in home life.

) Why not consult your neighborhood pet dealer. You will ﬁnd him
friendly and most co-operative. He will be glad to answer your
questions.

) Learn how inexpensive it can be to start an aquarium. Find out about
the modern and new things for cats and dogs that make ownership so
easy and convenient even in apartments.

. See how inexpensive it is to acquire a lovely bird and to maintain it.
Inquire about other interesting pets and pet life.

 

Won’t You Let This Be Your Reminder to
Visit Your Nearest Pet Shop . . . You Will

Find It a Most Rewarding Experience.

 

 

 

40

 

 




 

‘At a farm auction several pretty
girls were sitting up front heing ad~
mired hy an elderly farmer. When-

V__fez»er he. could catch their attention,
he would smile and nod to them.

He hept this up during the whole
auction.
' At the end of the sale the flirtat-
ious farmer was surprised to learn
that he bid hikougaht eight heifers.

1" l!

A man driving on a country road
ran into a cow and hilled it. The
farmer ' ran over to the motorist,
shouting furiously.

‘CN )9
. “ow, now , soothed the motor-
ist. Keep calm. I’ll replace your
, 7’
cow.

6‘ 9 ° ‘

’Hell, ’ cried the farmer. “You
can t give mil .”

* * * * 1‘

 

 

Pick A Name

Fido .is a Latin word meaning
“faithful.” The reason it has be-
come almost synonomous with
the word “dog” dates back to
ancient Roman history. Dogs
dressed in miniature suits of
armour faithfully trotted after
their knights even to battle.

Give your pet a name with

meaning. His personality or some
physical characteristic can sug-
gest his name, says the Pet Food
Institute. For
example, Greg-
0 r y m e a n s
w a t c h f u l ;
Abigail, source
of delight.

Use your imagination wnen
you decide on a descriptive name.
An appropriate name for an Irish
setter is “Red.” A fresh approach

‘to the same thought could be

Rouge, Rory, or Brick.

Consider the language of your
breed’s point of origin if you wish
to describe an ordinary charac-
teristic in an extraordinary way.
A toy French poodle would be
appropriately named Chosette
(little thing). For a Scottish ter-
rier, consider Randy (a tough
beggar). You might call a Chi-
huahua, Gitano (gypsy); a Sia-
mese cat, Som Phong (chip off
the old block).

Whatever. you choose for his
“registered” name, keep your
pet’s “call” name short and snap-
py. It is easier for a pet to under-
stand a name that begins with a
hard letter such as G or C.

41

 




 

 

PET DIGEST

 

 

 

 

Gear}; Garage

BY ALICE WERNHERR

IS FUR WAS dusty gray with

b10tches of black. The old

man thought that someone
had spilled grease on the ﬂoor of
the garage when he saw him ﬁrst.
Then he noticed two round green
eyes staring up into his.

"A kitten,” he mumbled and
picked it up. The little smudge be-
gan to purr. He sounded like an
engine. It was surprising that such
an energetic sound could be pro-
duced by so tiny a chest.

"Where on earfh did you come

42

 

 

from, little fellow?” the old man
asked. The garage stood on a for-
gotten road. Few cars travelled by
since the new highway had been
built, only a few lovers of unspoiled
scenery who had enough leisure,
remained customers. George, the
owner of the garage and gas station,
was too old to care. He was a
widower, a quiet man, and rooted
to the old place. His lovelihood
was meagre, but so were his needs.

He looked at the kitten and saw
the plea in the green eyes that ap-
peared like the reﬂection of twin
stars in a dark pool.

"Have a bowl of milk,” he said.
The little kitten that had mush»
roomed out of nowhere had found a
home.

He soon made himself useful by
keeping the garage mouse free, he
sat on top of the gas pump looking
for customers and liked to perch
on the hood of cars left for a check-
up. People called him George Gar-
age, George for his owner and
Garage like a nobleman of old by
his whereabouts.

Out of a little gray smudge
George developed into a formidable
Tomcat. His fur shone like polished.
metal, he was broadchested and
muscular, and his mustache would
have been the pride of a Circus-
Strongman. Only his eyes, huge as
they were, remained warm, loving
and kittenish in expression when
he sat on old George’s lap, watch-
ing the sunset at the horizon of the
lonesome road.

With the year the road grew
dustier and even more deserted, and
the old man and his cat lost some
weight, because even the mice visited
less and less.




GEORGE GARAGE

“You should go and live at a gas
station on the highway,” old George
often said to little George, ”a good

‘iouser like you deserves better pay.”

He even drove him to one of the
sparkling new gas stations that
beckoned like a festival under a gar-
land of colorful little flags. The old
man need not have spilled a
tear upon his steering wheel on his
way home. Because the next day
little George was back, and again
the two sat like landmarks at the
forgotten road, and watched the
mountains and the clouds in the sky.

Milk and meat became scarcer
every day.

"You sure were foolish to quit
that job on the highway,” the old
man gently reproached his cat.

But little George was cut out for
a better career.

One day a Cadillac that had lost
its way stopped in front of the
pump.

“Fill her up,” a gentleman in ex-
pensive English tweed said.

His eyes fell on George Garage.

“What a cat,” he exclaimed, “all
he needs is a turtle neck sweater
and he’d look like a movie-tough-
guy.”

His wife next to him shook her
platinum blond curls.

”I think he resembles
Gable,” she said dreamily.

"He’d make a great playmate for
Beautiful,” the man said, "would
wake her up from her lethargy.”
."Beautiful is our pedigreed Per-
sran cat,” the lady explained to old
George, "we’re quite often out of
town and she turned quite melan-
choly all alone in twelve rooms . . .

I do think we should have another
cat.”

Clark

"Would you sell. us your Cat?” the
man asked.

The old man had always believed
that Cinderella stories only happened
in movies. Now it happened to his
cat.
“Good-bye, little George,” he
said, watching the Cadillac until it
was only a speck on the horizon. He
could not help that a tear rolled
into the tire-marks.

Months went by and many strange
things happened. A shrewd business-
man with an eye for the unusual.
opened a motel on the old road. He
called it "the heavenly View”. Al-
most instantly competition dOtted the
road with hotels, motels, restaurants
and even a drive-in movie. Within
one season the sleepy old road be-
came fashionable. Old George had
to hire two mechanics and one gas
station attendant to keep up with
the business. He never hired another
cat. When he closed his eyes he
could still see Geroge Garage with
bristling mustache and glowing eyes
pussy-footing through his dreams.

One night, when he walked
through his garage, he thought he
saw a blotch of spilled oil or grease
on the now sp-ic and span floor. It
was a bigger smudge now, but like
the very ﬁrst time it moved, it raised
huge green eyes to his face, with the
same urging, loving appeal . . .

"George . . . little George . . .’
the old man cried.

Again he did not know how the
cat had managed to mushroom out
of nowhere.

When he held him close to his
heart he noticed just one difference:

George Garage had learned to
purr like a brand new Cadillac

engine.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

g} NEw KIND of dog hero has
pk arrived at last. Instead of
“'3‘“ 7“ beneﬁtting mankind alone, it
is also helping its own kind.

A few dogs have literally rocketed
to fame in space ships. Some have
made their mark on television or
movie screens. Many are famous for
saving human lives directly or in
the medical laboratory. All are
lauded as “man’s best friend.”

But now with Vicky, an English
Setter, we have a dog hero in bOth
dogdom and peopledom. She’s had
109 puppies in less than seven years!

Thus she becomes the Canine
Mother of 1961—or any other year
you might care to name.

By doing what comes naturally,

 

 

‘ 1" c___ -72- _
l
l
l
J
l
l

PET DIGEST
WW f7 l- 7" “We , 77 m «x :. 77"”
z, e x 7-; .«e \c We ~ to I. #7577 ==~
'5 fékCrfllth/o s/h ﬁg if} [LIL (QM/‘7 .39 C7; {xx/"5J1 J14 “-..x’(,« -4

BY LOUIS LEWIS

which in her case is having puppies
to help man in studies of how nutri-
tion affects fertility of dogs, Vicky
is also helping her fellow tail-wag-
gers. More and sturdier offspring
may be the result which, in turn,
will further the age old man—and-his-
dog relationship.

It all started quietly—and unin-
tentionally ——at the Purina Dog Care
Center near St. Louis where Vicky
was born on August 5, 1953. There
was nothing unusual about the
young lady; she was just anOther
alert, friendly dog. Along with
several Other of her “girl friends”,
she had her ﬁrst offspring as part
of continuing nutrition studies con-
duCted at the Center.

 

 

V7730” “w m ma n .. ,. . . . .
773:3? A A Sxfhjufkjk M06. HEPKOfDOg amihOE’lfyf Clﬂf'gﬂC-E C. _'35VCE‘CC 3 1 lig'riﬂd
..1-, for. her our latest puppies in a total. of 109. Aml 3m . A: ﬂ 1,02,
oahe, 121;: -t - z y ~"‘“"" '2. "‘7 ’ “ “.7
D -zm... 7 ' :3. '1 :3 3:33. :33 the
2: x,» “Hui; ‘ 1° 1 .. .,
‘ “ ‘ .~ g:2...;€’_

 




VICKY: A NEW/ KIND OF DOG HERO

Her ﬁrst litter was seven yelping
black and white puppies. Then came
10 more individual litters ranging
from quadruplets to quadrodecuplets
(14), for what is believed to be
a world’s record total of 109 pup-
pies.

Until the handsome English
Setter’s recent record, the previous
records for dog motherhood were
held by two Other English Setters—
Sally and Sally II. Both preceded
Vicky in residence at the Center.

Sally whelped 99 puppies in 15
litters from 1929‘ to 1936. Sally II
improved on the record with 101
puppies in 12 litters from 1937 to
1943. Vicky established her record
in fewer but generally larger litters.
Her scorecard reads this way:
7, 13, 8, 14, 11, 14, 1.0, 11, 11, 6
and 4.

After litter number eight, when

phenom

 

the total stood at a mere 88, there
were thoughts of retiring Vicky
fro-m the maternity ward. But she
was in such. excellent shape that it
was decided to let nature take its
course. The results since totaled 21
——and there may be more to come.

What can pet owners and poten-
tial canine mothers learn from
Vicky’s experience? Apparently that
dinner table scraps are strictly
“people food,” not “dog food.” And
that neither warmed over hash nor
spinach that Junior has rejected do
a thing to help Rover’s digestion,
disposition or offspring.

In her entire life Vicky has never
had any of the “people food.” She’s
never as much sniﬂ‘ed at fresh meat
nor gnawed on a single bone.
There’s been no candy or so-called
treats in her diet, either.

 




 

 

PET DIGEST

Her diet has been simply water
and the company’s dog food. She
receives only the usual care and
attention accorded all 300 of the
dogs at the vast Center that is
dedicated to making a dog’s life
(and his master’s) a better one.

And since V icky’s retained her
good looks and good health in spite
of her rigorous family life, she’s
a living testimonial to the value of
a scientiﬁcally balanced diet.

The “dieticians’7 who supervise
the feeding of the dogs at the Center
are quite proud of their nutritional
practices that have resulted in the
three top-dog mothers. But they are
realistic, too. They also give credit
to another unusual dog—~—Vicky’s
mate. He is Poncho, a 10-year-old
English Setter, and still full of pep.

In addition to siting all of Vicky’s
109 puppies, Poncho has fathered
many other puppies at the Center.
Hi5 grand total is 510 pups in 56
litters—another undisputed record
no matter how you crumble the dog
fOOd. IIIIIIIIIIIIIII

WANTED

German Shepherd Dogs

Dogs needed for training in Police
Canine work.
Necessary qualifications:

Male dogs only

12 to 24 months of age _

70 pounds or more in weight

Ears erect

Good, sturdy hips

Alert and intelligent looking

Not timid

Not vicious

Dogs to be trained by the St. Louis Met-

ropolitan Police Department Canine Div:-
snon.

For full particulars contact Maior Andrew
T. Aylward, Commander Bureau of Services,
Canine Training Division, I2th 8: Clark
Street, St. Louis 3, Missouri.

 

 

SMALL ANIMALS & FOWLS

America’s most ”complete” small
animal and fowl magazine.

Sample copy, 35c; Yearly, $2.00,-

3 full years only $5.00

Van Cise Publishing Co.,
Bad Axe, Michigan

 

 

STATE IN THE UNION.

 

“OPPORTUNITY VETERINARIAN"

BEAUTIFUL ACRE LOCATION. SUCCESSFUL BOARDING
KENNEL. NO VETERINARIAN IN GROWING CITY.

THIS IS A GOLDEN OPPORTUNITY FOR A VETERINARIAN.
IDEAL LIVING CONDITIONS IN THE FASTEST GROWING

Write For Full Particulars To.-
Box 123, Ormond Beach, Florida

 

46

 

 

 

 




”*6;

 

 

 

 

FATH ER & SON

TAKEN in your HOME

METROPOLITAN NEW YORK ONLY

COLOR or BLACK & WHITE

MU rroy Hill 7-4700

., IX

Ml
°* PL

CEILING ZERO

 

 

 

 

PLAYTIME CATTERY REG.

Chinchilla and Shaded Silver Persians
SHOW STOCK FOR SALE
Cats and Kittens

MRS. REID COPELAND
24 ELGIN ST., ROCHESTER, N. Y.

 

 

DOG FANCIERS
LUNCHEON CLUB

Headquarters:
Luchow’s Restaurant
110 East 14th St., New York City
Meets 3rd Wednesday of every
month at noon

Chairman, HARRY MILLER

 

 

 

CLIFF’S WORM FARM

Box 104 - Carmel, N. Y.
PET’S — HOUSE PLANTS — FISHING
75 cents WILL BRING SAMPLE

 

 

 

CH. AENNCHEN’S SHIKAR
DANCER

owner 2

breeders:
Unretouched photo; a Champion
at 8 months.

 

MRS. JOANNE HESSE
Mr. & Mrs. J. P. Antonelli

 

 

 

 




 

 

a product of PE‘j'f‘iH

‘V‘

,g;

 

\J‘

 

recommended by

PET. DIGEST

 

 

v)“
ADVERTISED “ﬂyB *

4s

 




 

Pnj

1’
J}
‘i

 

HEALTH,

Inc.

 

DOGS a. CATS
ﬁnmmémjluéﬂfgé’

0%

recommended by
PET DIGEST

43 9““
dquRTISED ““38

    
    

 

 

 




 

 

 

Humanitarian of

St. Hubert’s Giralda

BY EDWIN J. SAYRES

(Executive V ice Preriderzt, St. Haberl’r Gimfda)

T. HUBERT’S GIRALDA is located
Sin the beautiful hill country

of Morris County, New Jersey.
It is privately endowed by the great
humanitarian, Mrs. Geraldine R.
Dodge, Madison, New Jersey, for the
protection and welfare of small
animals.

Mrs. Dodge, internationally famous
for her concern in animal welfare,
her success as a breeder and exhibitor
of champion show dogs of .many
breeds, her sponsorship of the world-
famous ivlorris-Essex dog show, de-
cide-d to direct her efforts more
actively toward helping the un-
wanted dogs and other animals
roaming the streets and country-
side.

To quote Mrs. Dodge: “The laSt
few years have seen an unprece-
dented «increase in the number of
dogs produced. While show dogs
usually live a good life there are
thousands less fortunate and in des-

50

 

 

”'W'mﬂ’wﬂ‘ ‘ “4mm mounting" a l. ..

perate need of help from those who
can and will give it. To this un-
happy segment of dogdom 1 now
give top priority of my time and
strength.”

St. Hubert’s Giralda was original-
ly founded by Mrs. Dodge in 1939.
It was the ﬁrst step on her part
to sponsor an active program for
the protection and welfare of small
animals in Morris County. The war
years interrupted immediate activity
in the field. However, Mrs. Dodge
pursued her efforts in working out
what was considered a small animal
control program that would help
both the pets and the people of the
community.

Objectives accomplished since the
war include constructive suggestions
on state and local levels regarding
humane and just laws for enforcing
practical control. Considerable pro-
gress has been made along these
lines.

 

 

 




 

 

HUMANITARIAN OF ST. HUBERT’S GIRALDA

St. Hubert’s Giralda is by name
an animal orphanage. St. Hubert is
the patron saint of animals; St. Gir-
aldo, fro-m which Giralda is derived,
is the patron saint of orphans. In
actual practice we function as a
shelter for unwanted and stray
animals which are taken in from
the ninety square mile area in which
our wardens patrol.

Unfortunately only a small per-
centage of these animals are placed
in homes because in the national
animals surplus piCture there are 35
million dogs and in addition 50
million born annually in our country.
Of these, 40 million will be home-
less since there are obviously not
enough foster homes to accommodate
them. Consequently, eighty percent
of these that find their way to
humane organizations have to be
and are humanely disposed of. We
present these facts in order that the
public will be aware of the press-
ing need for pet control. One type
of means in control of excessive
breeding is the spaying of female
dogs and cats. Another means is
striCt control of the animal while
he is being walked on a leash.

In the basic interests of borh
animal and public welfare the need
for such control is seen in the daily
manifestations of trafﬁc accidents
caused by animals, the damage done
to private and public property, the
reports of dog bites, and packs of
dogs running at large molesting wild-
life plus exposing the animals them-
selves tp painful injury and death.

The homeless animal has a point
of View also to be considered. If he
18 not adopted, he must face the
probabilities of being a victim of
starvation, trafﬁc accident, poison,

cold weather, or of the vivisec-
tionist.

So far we have discussed briefly
the pet animal surplus problem and
its affect upon our society. Animal
control and welfare agencies are
frustrated by public apathy and di-
rect disobedience to established laws
and the rights of others. Part of St.
Hubvert’s Giralda efforts is to inform
people of. the laws affecting the care
and control of their pets. Other areas
of our services include placing
animals in homes, returning lO‘St
animals to their owners, a radio dis.-
patched ambulance service for sick
or injured animals, and a personal-
ized \Warden Service through which
people can overcome personal and
neighborhood animal problems.

For the ﬁrst six months of the
year, St. Hubert’s Giralda lent as-
sistance to many dogs, cats, and small
wildlife animals. Lost dogs and some
cats were returned to their owners;
abandoned dogs and cats were
placed in new homes; and sick or
injured animals were helped through
our ambulance service.

It is the aim of all conscientious
humane organizations and individuals
to educate pet owners in their re-
sponsibility to their pets and other
pet owners as well as to those who
may not like pets, to feel compasv
sion for God’s little creatures, espec-
ially the abandoned and the un-
wanted.

Until the happy time when this
is accomplished it will be the for-
tunate stray, lost or unwanted pet
that comes to- the attention of a
well-planned, carefully d i r e c t e d
humane organization such as St.
Hubert’s Giralda, orphange for little
abandoned animals. "II-III"

51

 




 

 

 

 

52

 

   

 

A Tale of the Sea
BY OLIVIA V. RICKMAN

.t‘iHE LAST WHISTLE blows! The
gangways are up and the S. S.
UNITED STATES leaves her

berth on anOther voyage to Europe

 

 




 

 

 

AT THE CAPTAIN’S DOOR

with over 1700 passengers and 1000
crew. In" silhouette against the sky,
the streamlined vessel glides past the
Battery and heads out to sea, but
little Chota Peg is nor there at the
Captain’s door waiting for his master.

The little red cocker spaniel with
long ﬂoppy ears was Captain’s Com-
panion on the Flagship, the UNITED
STATES, and he was devoted to
his master, Commodore John W.
Anderson, the Captain of _ the ship.
He was always waiting beside the
cabin door listening for the footstep
of his master, but when the door was
opened, he’d look up with soulful
eyes, "Captain’s Companion ready for
duty, Sir,” and follow him to the
Bridge to keep his master company
through the long and solitary hours
of the night.

Chota was a lonely little pup when
he spied the Captain one docking

day, and pleading for aHeCtion he
won the heart of Captain AnderSon.
He was young and frisky then, and
with two shakes of his puppy dog
tail he followed him up the gang-
way and made his ﬁrst trip to sea.
On board he was shy and retiring,
but he liked a bit of fun. .A little
nip here and a little nip there and
he danced on his toes and rolled
over so they called .him Chota Peg
which means “small drink” in Hin-
dustani.

Chora looked so mournful when
the vessel pitched and rolled and he
never took his eyes oﬂC his master,
but when the ship ploughed Steadily
through the heavy seas, he would
curl up outside the cabin door with
one eye open, waiting for the Cap-
tain’s call. In time he became an
old sea dog, loyal and courageous
to the end. They sailed together

 

 

”WM.
.70
{iglﬁiﬁmﬂ
7 ’24- .- '1
1:)?“ ‘Kl-

*(1

PRINCETON PRINTING

,7“ “7 "c" mm “ r 7- 77

,
’. M “I ‘7 I 7 L r
\J' J. .7". J,:. L Av, ,x' 7 7’_/_'

.21 ,7

,1
A—LAAV

77
“3“"

hose who appreciate fine printing)

“7'77 77:7 773 c:
l A, I "\7

7, ‘1 t’
.5. 3.4!».

 

:27
mil

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

COMPANY 176 ALEXANDER ST., PRINCETON. N. .I.

~77 7 777 rUCVFT/
1,"? L311”? 5 a J 1 7/ 73/171; -' A.) .71 :1 I. all

-7 . ,— w‘ ,
77,7 U 7.x 77‘) it,"
‘. U ,7 77 ‘l “53‘ [/4 {I V“
7,3. _ . A a- .

53

 




 

 

PET DIGEST

through the submarine infested
waters of World War II, and battled
the storm-lashed Atlantic on Amer-
ica’s ﬁnest luxury liners. He spent
his life at sea, and in his 14 years
on ships, traveled more sea miles
than any other animal in dogdom.
Like Elizabeth Barrett Browing’s
Flush, Dick Whittington’s Cat, and
Stephen Foster’s little dog Tray,
Chota Peg will take his place in the
Hall of Fame, the little dog who
sailed with Commodore John W.
Anderson on the SS. UNITED
STATES.

Puppy days rolled by and Chota
Peg was riding the crest of the
wave, a celebrity with all the poise
and social grace of a gentleman on
a luxury liner. In his quite unassum-
ing way, he always waited at the
Captain’s door where he was wont
to meet the distinguished guests of
his master; and with a discerning
glance he would wag his tail, "My
master is expecting you.”

He lived in a gay "Who’s Who”
land Where he met world’s great
talent and famous people. To ﬂip
through the pages of his autograph
album, there was Princess Grace
smiling down at him, and Harry S.
Truman patting him on the head.
Cary Grant winked, "hello there little
nipper,” and turning over a few more
pages, ”Memorable Moments with
Sir Osbert Sitwell, Mary Ellen Chase,
and Tennessee Williams.” Dog-eared
pages were red-letter days: "Great-
est of all Days,” the Duke and
Duchess of Windsor boarding the
vessel with their four pugs straining
at the leash. Bob Hope’s dachshund
pawing, “Come on in, the water’s
ﬁne,” and peeking coyly from be—
neath her blanket, Barbara Hutton’s

54

 

 

cute little toy dachshund blinked
"And so to bed.”

Chota Peg was a real sailor true
to the traditions of the sea. On
duty he was the perfect host always
loyal to the ship and his master,
but in a waggish way, he would trot
along the kennel quarters to cast
a sportive eye at the dog and cat
passengers ferrying across the Atlan~
tic under the kennel master’s care.
He never left the ship, and sailed
every trip since the UNITED
STATES made her maiden voyage
to England in 1952 and won the title
uSpeed Queen of the Atlantic.” The
ship was his home.

The tide ebbed and flowed and
Chota was growing old. He no longer
romped and raced, but with his head
resting comfortably on his forepaws,
he was content to lie in his old
place beside the cabin door. Lulled
to sleep as he rocked on the deep,
he dreamed of days gone by. He
heard the rattle and roar of the
anchor winch as the ship docked
at Le Harve in the early dawn, and
he trembled with an old yearning
for the excitement and adventure
ashore. He dozed, but felt the ship
pushing cautiously up the icy river
to Bremerhaven, and snuggled down
in his bunk; but when he recalled
the green ﬁelds of Netley Abbey on
the English shore, he was restless
for he knew he would soon be in
Southampton. He awoke, and stretch-
ing his weary legs he walked slowly
up on deck to see the spindling
spire of St. Michael’s pointing up—
ward to the sky.

Homeward bound through the
midst of the morning, the Manhattan
skyline appeared, and the Statue of
Liberty was waiting there in the

 

 




 

 

AT THE CAPTAIN’S DOOR

harbour to welcome the vessel into
New York Bay. The tug boats
pufﬁng importantly hugged in close
by, and escorted the giant liner up
the North River to her berth on the
West Side. The cheers and the shouts
of the passengers told him the ship
was edging into the pier, but when
the whistle blew one long shudder-
ing blast, he was happy. He was
back home in New York again.
Once more he watched the fading

New York skyline as the vessel
slipped silently out to sea, and Chota
Peg made his last voyage on the
liner the UNITED STATES. With-
out pomp or fanfare they buried him
at sea, and now they say when there’s
a storm at sea and the wind is
whistling through the halyards, that
Chota Peg whines for his master,
"Captain’s Companion standing by,
Sir,” outside the cabin door.

 

 

ADVERTISEMENT

ﬂagela and her CAMERA

make natural, hard-to-get pictures of your babies and pets

at your home or her studio.
BY APPOINTMENT

29 J ane Street

Award

CH 3-1735

\l\
\a"

 




 

 

 

 

~«~ ,? s 'zfrih'wa‘ﬁa- 3‘

(”w-mm. c
l 1’ \,.

  

 

    
  
 
  
 
  

 

 

 

  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 

 

. islands located around the warm
5;

 

' the ocean

   
  

PET DIGEST

    
 

 

!
‘3 BY FELIX FORREST qmﬁ

/ LTHOUGH mOSt islands are
fink; actually tops of mountains
‘3‘“ “’"*‘ originating from the ocean.

ﬂoor, there is a unique chain of tiny '7

waters of the equator, that are
formed in a much different manner. .;

These mountains or reefs, as they
are commonly referred to, protrude
only feet above the ocean’s surface
in long rows of multi-shaped pat-
terns.

Unlike mountains, which are
made up from the earth’s cruSt, the
reefs are [composed of millions of f ‘
coral skeletons, which throughout
the centuries have risen up from ,
ﬂoor like a slow moving

" 3. 3", v1", - "323.3

 

 

    
 
   

 
  

      

 

 

 




 

 

SKELETONS OF FISH MAKE CORAL REEFS

giant. Often, reefs nest upon under-
water mountains and this parasitic
structure considerably speeds up the
length of time for the coral to break
through the water’s surface.

Fringing reefs, found around
Bermuda, cling to the sides of the
islands for support and surround in-
active volcanos whose peaks barely
lie under the water level.

A third type of reef is called bare
rier reefs, which lie between deep
channels of water and nearby is-
lands.

Coral reefs are as dangerous as
they are beautiful and many an ex-
perienced marineer has been fooled
by their unobvious danger. For on
foggy days it is easy to miss their
low altitude presence and only after
a ship has felt the sting of its
jaggedy hard surface, does the
marineer realize his error.

Where there is danger there is
beauty and the coral is no exception.
Whereas it is actual a part of the
animal kingdom, appearance wise it
resembles an enchanting colorful
flower garden, drifting lazily with
the oceans movement.

All components of reefs grow
upwards toward the sun and only
after their peaks have broken surface
do they begin to slowly whittle
away from wind and storms. Event-
ually the tide carries the many
pieces of coral blocks to the shore
Where they are deposited in the
form of little white grains upon the
shore. In time, what was once soft
coral animals ﬁnally becomes the
basis of a glittering familiar sand
beach.

Today million of people use the
picturesque strips of sand that line
island shores without any idea as to
their origin. For what is taken for
granted as sand is actually an accum-
ulation of skeletons of ﬁsh that once
rose at the rate of three feet every
1000 years. Few people ever realize
that the world famous Great Barrier
reef of Australia, extending 1260
miles off the coasr of Ausrralia and
composing thousands of little is-
lands is not much different than the
tiny white crystal particles that line
the shores of islands, which help
satisfy so many vacationers each

year.

 

two year old.)

 

EL RETIRO KENNELS
(ANNA MARIE PATERNO, OWNER)

FOR SALE. ONE PAIR OF THE MOST BEAUTIFUL SALUKIS.
THE DOGS OF THE SUMARIAN KINGS AND THE EGYPTIAN
PHAROAS — VERY RARE. PRICED AT ONLY $750.00 (About

EL RETIRO KENNELS
West Hartford, Vermont

 

 

 

57

 




 

 

 

i HOSPITAL READING SOCIETY

Organized I 874

WWW

- THE HOSPITAL READING SOCIETY, an organization which has 84
vears of continuous service under varying names, has brought comfort,
diversion and instruction to people out of touch with the world. This has
been done through the collection and distribution of reading material to
the sick, indigent and aged; to Prisons, Penitentiaries, isolated Schools,
and even to foreign-speaking peoples in hospitals.

The Society is supported by voluntary contributions and your participa-

tion will help us to continue this important work.

Contributions are greatly needed and are deductible for tax purposes.

Donations May Be Sent To:

HOSPITAL READING SOCIETY
UNITED CHARITIES BUILDING

Room 522
105 East 22nd Street
New York 10, N. Y.

Telephone: GRamercy 5-1324

@WWW’KO‘NO"

0°

 

EMPLOYERS WANTED!

ESTABLISHED AND PROFESSIONALLY STAFFED VOCATIONAL
SERVICE SEEKS 1,000 NEW EMPLOYER ACCOUNTS. WORKERS
AVAILABLE FULL TIME AND PART TIME FOR ALL OCCUPATIONS.

Among Others, Mature And Physically
Handicapped, But Not Job Handicapped,
Workers On File —— At Your Service

FEDERATION EMPLOYMENT AND GUIDANCE SERVICE
Telephone: ORegon 9-4900
42 East 4lst Street, New York 17, New York

A Free Placement Service Serving
Business Since 1934

 

 

 

58

 

 

 




 

 

JUST ONE BREAK, INC.

717 FIRST AVENUE, NEW YORK 17, N. Y.

MR. EMPLOYER
DO YOU WANT

' Good workers
- Less absenteeism
- High production record
- Stronger loyalty
- Less accident risk
° Complete physical background
° Free employment service
- Evaluation of skills and abilities
° Right employee for the right job
- Lower taxes

- Good business

IF YOU DO

EMPLOY THE PHYSICALLY
HANDICAPPED
YOU COULDN’T

POSSIBLY HAVE BETTER WORKERS
'Phone: JOB, Inc. YUkon 6-0044

 

 

 

59

 




 

 

 

t l‘l
l

 

 

 

PET DIGEST

 

A Remarkable Character

BY OWES

HEN IN Fort Worth 1 had oc-
casion to call on Dale Log-
ston of Animals Interna-

tional.
He was busy placing a puma in
one crate and a juguar in another.

60

FOGARTY

Next he opened a large box and
very gently put in his hand draw-
ing out a large rattlesnake, repeat-
ing this act several times until he
had placed them in various little
calico bags.

 

 




 

A REMARKABLE CHARACTER

This done, he straightened up
as I came over to introduce myself.

Up till now I had not taken any
notice of him, being too fascinated
in watching the animals and his
handling of them.

As he came towards me, a slight
dark haired young man with hand
outstretched I realized to my amaze-
ment that he was totally blind.

Blind at three as a‘ result of
scarlet fever, he was one of eleven
children plus anorher six adopted
for good measure; his father being
a warmhearted generous person
insisted that he be brought up
normally, if one can call normal sav-
ing all kind of wild creatures and
birds and dangerous snakes.

At the age of ten he was sent
downtown in St. Louis and told
to ﬁnd his way around alone and
so he knew every nook and corner
of St. Louis. He was made to ride
saddleback with his brothers. and
Sisters.

In college he met Marylin his now
very lovely wife, who shared his
love and intereSt in animals.

She knew of his interest in
animals and took for granted this
meant the usual dogs, cats and other
domesticated creatures.

On their wedding day he in-
formed her he had three bears and
a puma and 'that their honeymoon
would be spent travelling with a
Circus.

A year later he bought a house
and started in the Animal business.
He went into the jungles of Central,
and South America to secure
animals and reptiles.

His wife, Marylin, reconciled to

a life dedicated to God’s creatures
became curator of the Reptile
House at the Fort Worth Zoo.

Recently when 1 met Dale, he
greeted me with enthusiasm as he
was unloading two large king
cobras who had escaped from their
cage. Remarkably, he knew their
location by the sound of their hiss-
in g. All I was required to do was
to guide him toward their tails.
W’ith a somewhat groping he
would grab a tail and shake the
snake vigorously causing it to pull
away any slackening of its effort
and most slackening would key it
ofIf balance until eventually he put
them back in their cage.

Dale specialize in rare animals
for zoos. He can locate any rare
specie in any part of the world.

The mom: amazing thing about
Dale is his complete enjoyment and
love of animals.

Fort Worth has a magniﬁcent
bird display. Dale could identify
birds by their call nores and his
wife patiently describes each bird,
as to coloring and habitat to him.
This site will ever be remembered.

Dale has been commissioned. by
various zoos to secure really difﬁcult
specimens. Now he is off on a
New Guinea, Malay, India and East,
world tour to Japan, Philippines,
Central and West Africa going into
the remotest areas. He is taking the
journey alone. He does not use a
cane or seeing eye dog. He says he
is going to bring back a seeing eye
cheetah. This remarkable man 15 an
inspiration to every animal lover in
the world.

 

61

 




 

HUMANE BIOLOGY PROJECTS
1 A New Teaching Aid

The Animal Welfare Institute has prepared a new 44-page illus-
trated manual for high school teachers, which is now available upon
request from the Institute.

Entitled “HUMANE BIOLOGY PROJECTS,” it was prepared with
the assistance of research scientists and educators and contains over
100 experiments and demonstrations for teaching and helping students
with their Science Fair projects. With sections on Animal Behavior,
Bacteriology, Genetics, Physiology, Ecology and Conservation, it sug-
gests a few of the myriad humane methods which may be used to
teach high school biology. It is designed to aid the teacher in devel-
oping in his students original thinking, painstaking observation,
understanding of scientific procedures and respect for the rights and
feelings of all forms of life which possess sensibility.

Single copies are available without charge to teachers, librarians
and others who work in the educational ﬁeld; others may purchase
it at cost, 25¢.

Persons who would like to receive a copy of this manual write to
the Animal Welfare Institute, 22 East 17th Street, New York 3, N. Y.

 

 

 

 

BUY THRU THE MAIL
0 Playing Cards

 

p y 0 Personalized Stationery, Napkins, Match Books
0 Subscriptions For All Magazines

”Prices Lower Than Stores”

Q BARNEY MAMET
”The Sightless Salesman”

208 WEST 23rd STREET

NEW YORK TT, N. Y.

 

 

 

 

DOG, PET OWNERS, SPORT 8. FISHERMEN

nun ”sun I: novm
aura nuux "VENT" & ”LOCK"

y.- IAFE ROOM/
' col/VI”! TRUNK f‘ 7“v ounmmo &

Precision Built to Fit most
N
"mm“ ' can "so—1959 . . . from $3.65

VENT-lOK MANUFACTURING CO.
Dept. N, 14871 San Juan, Detroit 38, Mich.

     
      
      

WEST HIGHLAND WHITE TE’RRIERS
Westie Puppies. The Perfect
Pet For All The Family.
OSER KENNELS
T4423 51'. RD. 14 WEST
Ft. Wayne, Ind. ARcola 5-3240

  

 
  

    

MINUTES

 

 

 

62

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

/

THE GREENWICH VILLAGE
HUMANE LEAGUEJNC.

  
 

.- ‘.§:i:'.;:;._-f‘

 

 

 

 

 

HUMANITARIANS

YOUR HELP IS NEEDED NOW

We have iust bought a new home dedicated and
devoted to the welfare of cats

If you’re just a few days old and you’re left on a doorstep,
the League will give you a home.

If you’re pregnant and have been thrown out on the Street,
the League will take you in.
BUT . . . you've got to be a cat.

.K PLEASE HELP us RAISE $250,000
, FOR A MODEL INSTITUTION

Please send your checks to

THE GREENWICH VILLAGE HUMANE LEAGUE, INC.
5] Eighth Avenue, New York 14, N. Y.

Our membership extends from Maine to California. All donations are Tax Deductible.

This advertisement is donated by friends of the Greenwich Village Humane League. Inc.
in appreciation of their humanitarian work.

   

   
  
   

recommended ‘b
{ET DIGES’L‘

s .
4 .- ‘g ‘(
DVERT‘ISED TH539

63

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

PET DIGEST

In Pet Kingdom
BY WILL SMITH

UTUAL problems concerned

with maintaining and im-

proving the health of an es-
timated 182,200,000 humans and
700,000,000 animals in the United
States were discussed for the beneﬁt
of bOth human and animal doctors
at the Third Conference on Public
Health for Veterinarians at Cornell
University.

The conference, sponsored jointly
by the New York State Veterinary
College at Cornell, the New York
State Health Department, and the
New York State Veterinary Medical
Society, focused on the increasing
problems in public health as the
house pet and livestock population
in this country mounts.

A three-year-old census of the pet
population in the United States
shows that there were at that time
an estimated 25,000,000 dogs; 26,-
700,000 cats; 15,000,000 paraketts;

» *1 WWEWIWW/Wm’wi mix-4.1: mu ,m , .v; .i - ,

 

 




 

CAT IS “TOP DOG” IN PET KINGDOM

6.000,000 canaries; 1,000,000 ﬁnches
and other caged birds; 3,000,000
turtles; 100,000 monkeys, and 10,-
000 skunks being kept in American
homes as pets.

The fact that at least 55.6 per
cent of all families in the United
States have a pet of some kind is
only a part of the health problem
that a burgeoning animal population
is imposing on our society.

According to Dr. John P. Ayres,
public health veterinarian of Bing-
hamton, N. Y., who is also president
of the New York State Association
of Public Health Veterinarians,
there are about 19,000 doctors of
veterinary medicine in the United
States. About 12,000 practioners are
concerned with maintaining and im-
proving the health of 700,000,000
animals—more than 600,000,000, of
which are cattle, hogs, sheep, horses
and mules, chickens, turkeys and
ducks.

Dr: Ayres said each practicing
veterinarian is on the average re-
sponsible for the health of 375
horses; 7,785 cattle; 2,577 sheep;
4,583 hogs; 31,063 poultry; 2,083
dogs, and 1,666 cats, in addition to
other mammalian, reptilian and bird
pets._ More than one-fifth of the
veterinarians are engaged in small
animal practice. Veterinarians serve
about 300 zoos in the United States.
“ Speciﬁc problems that came up for
discussion included those concerned
With the inspection by veterinarians
0f 20,000,000,000 pounds of meat
and meat products for safety and
wholesomeness; the annual inspec-
tion of about 34,500,000 dairy ani-
mals, including 23,028,000 milk

cows, .and aid in establishing and
enforCing pure milk laws.

 

Veterinarians develop and admin-
ister programs in formal public
health and research related to vet-
erinary medicine at state, national
and international levels and super-
vise and produce $150,000,000
worth of bio-logical products and
drugs, and are called on to regulate
and enforce import and export
health requirements of 125,000 ani-
mals, exclusive of poultry, each year.
They also help regulate intrastate
and interstate trafﬁc in animals.

From 900 to 1,000 research proj-
ects on animals’ diseases—many of
which affect man as well as animals
——are being constantly conducted by
doctors of veterinary medicine.

In addition, Dr. Ayres pointed
out, veterinarians are responsible for
resident undergraduate training of
2,500 students in non-professional
courses in anatomy, physiology and
sanitation each year and for the
professional education and training
of 5,000 students in veterinary
medicine and for graduate training
of 250 research and teaching special-
ists taking MS. and Ph.D. degrees.
They teach also, both on and off the
campus, urban groups, such as con-
sumers, processors and inspectors.

T w e n t y veterinary medicine
schools in the United States not only
train and teach new veterinarians,
but carry on research and conduct
hospitals for animals simultaneously.

At Cornell’s New York State Vet-
erinary College a total of 55,291
patients were treated and 122,689
examinations were conducted in the
diagnostic laboratory, demonstrating
the increasing interest of animal
owners in the good health both of
livestock and pets.

saaaaaaana
65

 

 




 

 

 

 

PET DIGEST

 

 

0.0.0.0.0..0..9.00®O®CGO0.0.00000000000000000000000

Backyard Breeders

BY CARL E. SMITH

. .
0.99000°00960060906660.0006...OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO

 

 

ern breeder and dog-writer, in

commenting u p o n declining
prices in that breed, she placed first
or: list of reasons, “Too many Back
Yard breeders.” She went on to ex-
plain that they have a little equip-
ment or kenneling costs of invest-
ment. They frequently use cheap
grade stock for their breeding, and
so of course get a lower grade and
average of offspring. Anything so
that they can advertise it in the
NAME of BREED. Since they have
no particular standard nor breeding
reputation to uphold, and produce
the offspring as cheaply as possible,
they undersell the reputable breeders
with the UNGRADED stock which
as typical of the “back yard bredder.”
Good, bad, and indifferent grade
stock are all the same price to the
BACK YARD BREEDER. He is
out to “skim a little cream,” While
the skimming is good. What does
he care for STANDARD? And he
frequently sells his pups and lets
them go BEFORE he can GRADE
them accurately to tell WHAT the
PRICE should be; and before they
are old enough to be well started in
their pOSt-weaning, mixture, and be-
fore they are old enough to be trans-
ported safely. If the buyer loses his
pup; that’s just HIS HARD LUCK.

66

I N A RECENT letter from a west-

 

 

In illustration of the above, a
buyer recently came to one of our
branches, when the pups were priced
to him, loftily remarked that he
could buy a pup from another
breeder, a Mr. L., $25 cheaper.
"Well, why don’t you go there and
buy one?” said our man. “I
bought THREE,” said the buyer,
“AND THEY ALL DIED.” “Oh,
well,” replied our man, “ I can sell
pups like L.,——-the kind that DIE, for
$25 cheaper, or more. But we don’t
like THAT KIND OF BUSINESS.
We like pups that LIVE!

80 you see some of the ways in
which the ﬂy-by-night don’t care
breeder hurts the professional, well
equipped, legitimate breeder of long
and honorable reputation and high
standards of production. The “back
yard bree-der” is mostly a MESS; and
usually winds up that way, both for
the breed, and himself. He seldom
makes money for long; because he
is not well versed in the business,
nor well equipped.

Near here, right now, is a ﬁne ex-
ample of the above. A nice couple,
but beautifully ignorant of dog
breeding, bought a female at a price
n0t calling for an individual of
breeding quality, and of a registry
which does not have recognition nor
reputation of the A.K.C., and the}I

 




 

BACKYARD BREEDERS

bred this “Other registry” bitch of
theirs to an A.K.C. stud, whose
owner SHOULD HAVE TOLD
THEM that, in breeding a female of
one registry to a male of another
registry, the resultant litter is NOT
ELIGIBLE FOR REGISTRY IN
EITHER CLUB. Even tho inexperi-
enced, and without equipped kennel,
they have (so far) raised the litter;
they are now up to selling age,—and
the age where they REALLY EAT,
and soon “eat their heads off,” and
these folks are just now, belatedly,
trying to get their pups registered.
They can’t get their bitch into the
A.K.C., but IE and WHEN they can
get the stud owner to also put his
stud over into the lesser registry of
their bitch has. But, by the time
they get this done; the pups will
have away most of the chance for a
proﬁt, yet will sell no higher than
they would have at 5 mos. They
even had trouble locating the stud
owner, who had MOVED, mean-
while. Lots of KNOW, about breed-
ing, raising, registering, and selling.
Too many think all there is to it is
to take your bitch to a stud; about
63 .days later, presto, she has a litter
which grows up, like Topsey, most
anywhere, and folks fall over them-
selves to buy them. If you can’t or
don’t register them, they can be
(3.014(3)) under the great old word,
eligible,”——which means exactly
nothing, to a buyer who KNOWS.
A breeder of experience with a repu-
tation to uphold would of course
avord such a mess as the above, like
he would avoid poison; poor way to
make money, even IF it could be
made proﬁtable,—which it can’t. The
EIGGder, in the case above, was
took ’ and so will be anyone who

buys from him, until he gets his
registries straightened out, if ever
does. Dozens of folk write me pa-
thetic stories and ask help in “get-
ting the papers for my dog.” I am
compelled to tell them it is usually
cheaper to just above GIVE AWAY
what they have, or sell for what they
can get, and then buy into stock that
is correct as to points, condition,
papers and registry, ALL.

And, for BREEDING, the BEST
is always the cheapest, in the long
run; and that applies to registry, as
well as breeding, type, points, and
condition. For BREEDING, buy the
BEST; any farmer will tell you that,
—for any kind of livestock or poul-
try. The BEST reproduces itself;
and the best registry and correct
papers help sell it. In like manner,
unfortunately; lesser grade stock of
doubtful papers reproduces itself,
too, with all the troubles ,costs as
much to raise,—-—bring so much less
cash. For breeding, BUY THE
BEST. And then get equipped prop-
erly for breeding and raising high
grade stock which will bring the
higher grade prices. Nothing less
pays. If a farmer goes into the hog
raising business, he will get buildings
and equipment ready for raising
hogs. If he goes into the dairy busi-
ness, State laws will require him to
properly equip himself with modern
dairy barn, etc. If he goes into the
chicken business he’ll know he needs
a modern poultry building, and out-
ﬁt, for success. But too many folks
are “back in the horse and buggy
days” regarding dogs: just breed a
bitch, ﬁx her bed mOSt anywhere,
feed her anything that comes handy
(and costs little), and she’ll shell
out and raise a money making litter

67

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

PET DIGEST

like magic? There you have the
“back yard breeder,” who seldom
makes money for himself; and his
sales both break the market on good
pups and help give the breed and its
breeders a bad name. When the
back yard breeder realizes his mis-
takes and discrepancies, he usually
throws his stocsk upon the market
for WHAT IT WILL BRING; as
the folks nearby with the litter with
parents in 2 kennels clubs are think-
ing of doing, rather than book the
delay of further registry eﬂ‘orts. Then
he sells his pups more or less on
“eligible” representations; and the
buyer, later, takes the rap: Some
buyers even bring that “eligible”
Stuﬁ‘ around to legitimate breeders,
to be registered, so it can be bred to
the legitimate breeder’s studs,——an
impossible proposition, of course.
Occasionally the back yard breeder’s
studs with a big “line” makes a
temporary bit of “killing,” until he
gets foud out,—especially if he gets
into a breed limited in numbers.
One like the above, some time ago,
raised a litter of lesser registry, and
quoted his pups at the prevailing

prices of pups of first class grading
and registry. Since the breed was a
bit rare, in his region, he gOt away
with it, awhile. One of his buyers,
a nice lady who had been “too ” by
his “line” brought her purchase, a
poorly “pointed” pup of undersize
and lesser registry, here, for me to
see, saying she had paid this chap
$70 for it. I told her that IF this
pup had been better in points, and
A.K.C. registry, it would be worth
$70, or more. But with the points
it had, and the registry it had, such
are selling on the prevailing market
at $35, just half what she paid. So,
be as “beware” of the back yard
breeder as you would be of the
traveling peddler, when it comes to
making a purchase. Each is NOT
expecting to deal with you, again;
so he intends making a “killing” as
of NOW. He’s NOT in permanent
egitimate business, mostly; a few
sales, a litter or two, a few quick
proﬁts, and he is DONE. It is bet-
ter to buy stock from permanent
professional breeders with reputa-
tion.

 

 

DISTINCTIVE ANIMAL

Animals, Children, Weddings, Portraits,

PORTRAITS
in Baltimore, Md. Call

you,”

Plaotogmp/oer 0 f

Industry

3200 CHELSEA TERRACE
MOhawk 4-2164

 

 

68

. ”Wm. WWWWWWWMWIWW .w , imam Mam/r ,.,

 




 

 

 

Help the

Disabled

 

Help Themselves

GIVE TO

ffﬂfﬂﬂllﬂﬂ- of III! lIﬂﬂDlliﬂPPEﬂ

2“ WEST I4II| STREET 0 NEW YORK 11, N. Y.

 

 

 

 

 

PET PHOTOGRAPHER

 

' PERSONALITY PORTRAITS OF PETS

' PHOTOS FOR KENNELS AND CATTERIES

’ PHOTOS TO ILLUSTRATE ARTICLES FOR AUTHORS "Fantasy
0 PET PHOTOGRAPHY ARTICLES FOR MAGAZINES mid ,,
: PHOTOS FOR ADVERTISING Realny

SERVICES AVAILABLE FOR PET SHOWS

Write

SAL CELESKI
2609 Dorian
Boise, Idaho

    

"Chl'np" W

 

, .W~~r~»~w~-

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

PET DIGEST

Ew YORK’s sick and injured

animals will have available

a wider area of veterinary care
now that a $50,000 expansion pro-
gram has been completed at the
Hospital and Clinic operated by The
American Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals.

Major improvement centers around
an enlarged pathology laboratory
where tissue pathology, as well as
clinical pathology, will be conducted.
The new laboratory will have com-
plete facilities for post mortem ex-
aminations. The pathologist will
examine diseased tissue to deter-
mine the cause of death in puzzling
cases. Knowing the cause of death
helps in determining the diagnosis
and treatment of future cases.

The pathologist’s report will be
correlated with the clinical diagnosis
and with studies made in human
hospitals. The hope is that better
diagnostic methods and cures will
eventually be found for diseases

which strike animals and humans
alike.

During 1951, the ASPCA Hos-
pital’s ﬁrst year at 441 East 92nd
Street, it cared for 19,000 patients.
Last year it treated $0,000, an in-

70

Good News
For Animals :
BY JANICE PAPRIN

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII.IIIIIIIIII

crease of 58 percent.

Original plans for the building
allowed for the present expansron,
which will include an enlarged busi-
ness ofﬁce for the six oﬁice workers.

The enlarged pathology laboratory
is equipped with many up-to-the-
minute precision and diagnostic in-
struments. Included is an autotech-
nicon, which takes the water out
of a piece of tissue so it can be
imbedded in wax. for easy analysrs.
A parafﬁn oven is used to keep the
wax at a constant temperature to
prevent melting or burning. A pre-
cision rotary microtome has been
inStalled to slice the tissue to 'a
transparent sliver for microscopic
examination.

Another innovation in the ASPCA
Hospital is an internship program
consisting of a formal course in post—
graduate training. The ﬁrst intern
graduated lasc June.

The 95-year-old ASPCA, Oldest
and largest humane society in the
country, uses as its slogan: “Hospltal
with a heart—where no animal In
need of care is ever turned away-.'
Thanks to the new program, this
Slogan will ring clearer than ever

ooooooooooo”O.
before, ¢.oo.oo.o¢.oo....«.oo.«.«.«. ,

 

\u




 

Better Living For Your Dog

BY BOB CHAMBERLIN

ASHION features for dogs range

from $500 mink coats to cock-

tail collars studded with prec-
ious jewels cost up to $2,000. At the
same time, much consideration is
given to the health and comfort of
man’s best friend, which helps to
create a higher standard of living
for dogs.

In addition to sporting coiffures
that cost $20 at canine beauty par-
lors, many of these pampered pooches
are life-insured. Fine fashions not-
withstanding, many of these doubly-
furred (mink, plus their own) pets
are neurotic—overly timid and hys-
terical barkers—and keep regular ap-
pointments with dog “psychiatrists.”
Treatment ranges from dog tranquil-
izers to understanding care.

NOt all dog accessories and services
are in the luxury category. Sets of
rubber boots are available at canine
clothing and accessory shops to pro-
tecr pets from irritating rock salt that
is spread on icy streets and sidewalks
in winter. Raincoats of the Cape
Cod type, complete with hoods, come
in all sizes, in addition to coats and

 

sweaters, for your dog’s protection
against the elements.

Somewhat less practical, but never-

theless available for dogs, are mink-
lined lounging pajamas, tuxedos,

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

~ ‘ tmmﬂwl‘gl‘iv‘m'ﬂ

PET DIGEST

beds painted to match the room,
pillows to match the draperies and
purple velvet robes covered wrth
rhinestones and white mink—all
custom ﬁtted, of course. A Long
Island printing company produces
dog greeting cards, with pictures of
your favorite breed, which pet own-
ers exchange in the name of their
dog.

Science has been good to the dog
as it has to man in the broad area
of health and general well-being.
Artiﬁcial limbs, contact lenses, hear-
ing aids and false teeth are all avail-
able to help improve a dog’s life.
There is even a way of getting rid
of dog ﬂeas, ticks and lice. An oral
insecticide, in tablet form, which is
called Ectoral, is available from any
licensed veterinarian.

Even the doghouse is now de-
signed for better living. Fortunate
is the pooch who lives in one of
the new two-room ranch style or
duplex abodes. There are also split-
level houses with b0ttom ﬂoors used
in summer as they are near the cool
ground, and upper ﬂoors used in
winter as the lower section is blocked

off.

Dogs usually love to ride in cars,
but sometimes the family is hesitant
to take Fido along, especially on long
trips. However, your dog’s nervous-

ness and possible motion sickness
can be reckoned with in advance.
Dog tranquilizers are especially
effective in treating these problems.
It is helpful to bring along a couple
days supply of the dog’s regular
food and some water, as sudden
changes in diet can be upsetting.

Many hotels and motels now have
special facilities for dogs and own-
ers, but it is a good idea to check
these in advance. Even airlines are
increasing their services to dog
owners. Several overseas airlines al--
low small dogs to be carried in ken‘
nels at their owner's feet, and the
charge is at the excess baggage rate
of about $2.30 per pound. Of course,
dogs may still be carried in the bag-
gage compartment.

A trip to Europe aboard an ocean
liner is available with the purchase
Of a $50 dog ticket. Dogs travel
in kennels on deck and in the same
class as their owner. The regulations
for taking a dog overseas are num-
erous, but having your favorite pet
with you may be worth the effort.

Man’s love for his beSt friend, the
dog, has resulted in a higher stand-
ard of health and well-being, pfOlz'
ably as a reward for the animals
faithfulness and service through the
more than 15,000 years of Compan-
ionship.

 

 

U. 5. Army Needs
German Shepherds

Persons interested in selling qualified
animals are urged to get in touch with
the U.S. Army Animal Procurement Office,
PO Box 52, lackland Air Force Base,

San
Antonio, Texas.

Howard Frisch

 

’___——'—

VILLAGE BOOKS AND PRESS

Divirion of Village Theatre Center
116 Christopher Street
New York, N. Y.
CHelsea 2-2103

 

Publisher

j

 

72

M‘Eﬁﬂmmmr~ s. -~-~»

 




 

  

Utmost care and skill..
and the finest ingredients
available, go into every
one of these economical

fine quality Lacan’s Toiletries:

- Lacan’s LANOLIN SOAP
- Lacan’s ALUR SHAMPOO

- Lacan’s BEAUTEE BLUE
Hand & Body Lotion

Lacan’s SPRAY DEODORANT

Lacan’s LEBONAIRE
After Shave Lotion 5

consul El
scnv WC! aunuu no

 

. Lacan’s BREATH 0F SPRING ”#35535"

Toilet Essence (Light Perfume)

“(9). K

 

Your daily usage of Lacan

 

  
 
 
 

3 fine quality tailetries will

recommended b‘y ' assist us to create more engage» Pmﬁn‘egtEogpg:
PET DIGEST 1 tunities for blind pedple, 'ESAT‘1'THE, SAME TIME. ’

xv}
S‘ADVERTISED Yﬁﬁﬁﬁ

TlNG TOP PRODUCT VALU ~

  

 




 
   

PET DIGEST

 

 

 

 

The ASPCA Hospital and Clinic is offering an auto-
clave and sterilizer to any humane society with a
practicing veterinarian on its staff.

The gascoperated unit has one compartment for
sterilizing instruments, and one for sterilizing surgical
gowns. It is in good Operating condition, with two
gas heaters, plumbing and valves, exhaust stack and
switches all in tact. The unit measures 42 inches deep,
79 inches wide and 72 inches high.

The ASPCA will dismantle it and donate it to any
humane society willing to pay for transportation.

For further information contact Donald J. Schroeder,

Business Manaqer, ASPCA Hospital and Clinic, 441
-7700.

East 92nd St., New York 28, N. Y., Trafalgar 6

 

  




" HQVQ J COWQ. cm‘l‘e4 WK

rtvmkowlc‘ taco ‘lb N how
‘aomr ASVCA kawslus

“ VET 3
9”! Asl’CA W935i

 

 

 

"The standard monthly
reference w o r k for
TROPICAL and GOLD-
FI‘SH HOBBYISTS
throughout the world"

Beginners and experts alike
look to The Aquarium mag-
azine for authentic and us-
able information about their
hobby. There’s news of
the latest developments in
breeding aquarium fishes
and newest products on the

market today!

FORE, E copv . . .simply kllliAQUARIUM

send your name and address with

20C .To cover postage. Regular

per Issue price 35c—yearly sub- P. 0. BOX 832

scr'Pllon $3.00. NORRISTOWN PA
’ '

\

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 
   
 

PET DIGEST

Dr. Albert Schweitzer

lea: this to my about the relation: between men and
animals . . . a “reverence for life” creed to be prayer-

‘ fully followed:

     
    
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
    
    
   
    
     
   
     
     
    
   
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

“W’henever an animal is in any way forced into
the service of man, every one of us must be con-
} cerned with the suffering which it has thereby to
J undergo. None of us must allow to take place any
H I suffering for which he himself is net responsible, if

i he can hinder it in any way, at the same time quiet-
ing his conscience with the reﬂection that he would
be mixing himself up in something which does
l nOt concern him.

i No one Must Shut
\ Let no one regard as light the burden of his responsi-

, His Eyes and . . .

‘ regard as bility! While so much ill-treatment of animals goes
N on-Exis tan t on, while the moans of thirsty animals in railway
‘ 1, th S . cars sound unheard, while so much brutality prevails
. j e “f f er mgs 0’ in our slaughter-houses, while animals have to en-

 

 

; WhiCh He dure intolerable treatment from heartless men, or
ii Spares Himself are left to the cruel play of children, we all share
T the Sight! the guilt-

\\‘““\. We are afraid of making ourselves conspicuous, if
we let it be noticed how we feel for the sufferings
which man brings upon the animals. We think at
the same time that Others have become more “ra-
tional” than we are, and that they take as being
usual and as a matter of course, what we are excited
about. Yet suddenly they will let slip a word which
shows us that they too have not yet learnt to ac-
quiesce. And now, though they are strangers, they
are quite near us. The mask in which we misled each
other falls off. We know now, from one another,
that we are alike in being unable to escape from the
gruesome proceedings that are taking place un-
ceasingly around us. What a happy making of a
new acquaintance!

       

The ethic of respect for life guards us from letting
each other believe through our silence that we no
longer experience what, as thinking men, we must
experience. It prompts us to keep each other sensitive

“ I to what distresses us, and to talk and to act together
4 , . 1" without an' f ' ' es nsi-
...'.'2Inr:"‘,‘ Y eeling 0f shyness, just as the r p0

bility we feel moves us to.”

 

 

 

 




 

 

To help counteract mistreatment
and neglect of animals .among
young people, the San Francisco
Soc1ety for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals sends a year-round
teacher to schools, hospitals and
gcfmth centers, to instill in every child
hu.msacrheooltrealge, the principles of

. atment of pets zoo
animals and wild life. ,
“ARI/)Igs Dale Igobbins,.known as the
photosA Lidy, uses. colored slides,
and Cilenplsters, printed material,
to win the”; puppies and kittens
in teachino etatrts of her audience
humane edicatiolr: new form Of

Part of tl f l '
she tells t'h 1e .un of havmg a pet,

e children, is taking care

San Franciso’s

    

“SPCA Lady”

of it yourself, and she demonstrates
handling, grooming and training the
animal.

At least a whole day—which often
becomes several days—is devoted to
a school, and each classroom dis-
cussion is arranged to suit that
group and the teacher’s program.
This is far more than an assembly
entertainment or a half hour’s di-
version, and San Francisco teachers
have been unreserved in their praises
for the SPCA’s service.

Miss Robbins concludes her' visits
by explaining the work of the
SPCA in caring for “orphaned”
pers, rescuing animals in trouble,

and helping sick pets.

77

  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
    




 

 

isa

“TWO LITTLE BEARS”
good attempt to reduce the insanity
of fantasy to comic realism. The
ingredients for such a formula are
two starry-eyed boys, convincingly
played by Donnie Carter and Butch

Patrick and their sedate but be-
wildered parents, Eddie Albert and
Jane Wyatt. The catalyst that sets
off the reacrion is supplied by one
simple word-“z'maginati0n.”

It seems as if Donnie and Butch,
like most boys, have self images
of being everything from bus drivers
to bears. Only unlike most boys,
the fantasy becomes a reality when
some mystical force enables them
to change at will into two little
bears.

 

 

PET DIGEST

    

The result is self-evident. With
naive humor the boys or bears man-
age to turn the town in a turmoil
which should amuse youngsters any-
way. As confusion mounts, their
father arranges a giant exhibition
to clear up the state of chaos which
has developed. This altruistic gesture
not only clears the air but reserves
a place in history for the humble Mr.
Albert.

Unfortunately, or fortunately, his
eternal place in American History
will far outlast the duration of the
picture which might be a blessing
to everyone with the exception of
bear lovers. Anyway, the kids might
go for it in a big way and perhaps
those who have given up on tele-
vision.

 

 

 




 

 

 

THE MODERN BOOK OF HOUSE-
HOLD PETS, by Jack Baird, famous
authority and consultant of all house-
hold pets. Jack Baird is pet editor
of the World-Telegram and Sam. He
is considered the expert of the
animal kingdom. Paul Brown’s 185
illustrations add to the zeSt of the
book. Although this book was pub-
lished in 1956, it is still tops for
pet owners. All book stores. Publish-
ed by Books, Inc.
=N= IX: 3" IX‘ il‘
THE WONDERFUL WORLD OF DOGS,
by Beth Brown, renowned authoress
of pet books. This is a book for
the whole family to enjoy together.
Miss Brown has selecred stories from
such famous writers as Albert Pay-
son, Fred Gipson, Meindert DeJong
and Others and has compiled a book
that will warm the hearts of every
member of the family. There are
stories here, beautifully and sensi-
tively illustrated for every dog lover.
Both Miss Brown and Leonard Short-
all, the illustrator, have won ac-
claim for their maSterful achieve-
ment. Haiperak anil Iirothers. $3.95.
1!!

gATS’ X.Y.Z., by Beverly Nichols.
his book 18 as practical, acute and
may as, Mr. Nichols’ well-known
b00k, “Cats A.B.C.” However, the

 

BY ETHEL BROWER

present volume has a wider and
deeper range. .Also,’ he introduces,
at times, a serious note into the
books’ light-hearted pages. To read
him on the institution of the circus
is to share the bewilderment and
degradation of the animals who are
being exploited. For here is prose-—
warm, beautiful and very real. E. P.
Dutton and Co, Inc. $5.50.
1X! 3" i‘ 1k 1|!

PET DIGEST, is the successful attempt
by the editors to capture the warmth,
understanding and empathy of the
pet world, usually found exclusively
in books and to apply the same depth
of humanitarianism to a quarterly
magazine. For here is a magazine
with everything. Whether it be in
the support of human-animal rela-
tionship, employing the handicapped,
full coverage of the events of animal-
ville, fresh and creative editorials,
and humorous but meaningful
columns, PET DIGEST emerges with
a golden halo around its head. Uni-
queness is another major feature of
the magazine. It possesses an unparal-
leled seal of approval, a Wln a prize
section, a movie seCtion as well as
many other commendable aspects.
Page for page, PET DIGEST IS
truly the consumers magazme. Sold
exclusively by subscription at 240

79

 

 

  




 

 

 

 

 

PET DIGEST

West 75th St., N.Y.C. 23. $4.00 per
year—$7.00 for 2 years—$10.00 for
3 years.

i‘ =l= 5* =1: =X=
BREEDING AND GENETICS OF THE
DOG, by Anne Fitzgerald Paramoure,
is as clear and precise a book as the
title indicates. In order to breed in-
telligently, the dog owner should
know something about the mechanics
of heredity; the way in which char-
acteristics are transmitted from one
generation to the next. Denlinger’s,
Middleburg, Virginia.

is i‘ ii 3* =l‘
PUSHOVER FOR A PURR by Frances
Johnson. This is a book about those
local household gods, cats. Those
outsiders who do not yet underStand
what it is that makes a cat an in-
tegral part of a family will cer-
tainly be enlightened by this book.
If you do not yet own a kitten, you
will surely desire one after reading
this book. Greenwich Book Pub-
lishers. $1.95.

=X= =X< =l= * it
BUDGERIGAR GUIDE, by Cessa Feyer-
abend Kluver, is a detailed book
about breeding. Some of the ques-
tions answered are; What is the best
breeding season? How do budgie
parents feed their young? Can we
produce more cocks than hens? and
What are the latest and rarest color
varieties now bred in America?
These and Scores of Other questions
will be answered in this concise but
complete book. This is the book
that the American Breeder has long
needed to give him an up-to-date and
proven method of breeding and car-
ing for these beautiful birds. Audu-.
bon Publishing CO. $1.75.

i‘ 3'5 =X= ’X‘ =l=
SALT WATER FISHEs FOR THE
HOME AQUARIUM by Helen Sim-

80

I .v mu]... ~ .'..-‘.’.‘;.‘a.;u’. ' a . ,4. .. .....

katis. With the arrival of artiﬁcial
salt is has become possible for any-
one to have a marine aquarium. An
up-to-date guide of every phase of
this fascinating hobby has been
qualiﬁedly written by Miss Sim-
katis. The book is a bible to both
novice and expert, giving full in-
formation on setting up from scratch,
a marine aquarium, maintaining it
and stocking it with a variety of
ﬁsh. The authoress describes the
specimens individually with parti-
cular attention given to the adapt-
ability of them to the home aquar-
ium. The 256 page book is beauti-
fully illustrated and is cloth bound.
The Aquarium Publishing Co. $6.00.
% 3" =l‘ ’1‘ #1
HEALTH, Edited by William E.
Brandt with able assistance from
Betty M. Kanameishi is dedicated
solely to the betterment of humanity.
This monthly publication covers just
about every conceivable aspect of
Osteopathy. The articles themselves
are written by qualiﬁed men and the
material includes a wide range of
subjects. For a top health magazine
that makes interesting and informa-
tive reading, “Health” is the answer
for the health conscious. Published:
American Osteopathic Association.
Subscription $1.00 per year. Single
copies 10c.
1* 3K! II! I" #3

THESE BOOKS AND MAGAZINES

HAVE THE PET DIGEST

recommended by
PET DIGEST

48 {3?}
a
ADVERTISED THE

 

 




 

Robin Favored As National Bird
In Hard-Fought British Contest

BY ED 'WENER

The robin has won an informal
poll of Britons asked to name their
choice as a national bird.

In a way the vote represented
reciprocated affection. The robin,
they say, likes Britons. Most Con-
tinental robins remain in the forest
but the British version will come
into the house. Many even remain
in Britain throughout the winter.

The victory was nor an easy one.
About 430 bird specie-s are found
here, more than half permanent
residents and the others regular
visitors. The permanent human resi-
dents have strong feelings about the
birds.

This emerged from the letters

that poured into The Times of Lon-
don after the newspaper had printed.
a_ plea from Lord Hurcomb for as-
srstance in naming a bird as a na-
tional emblem.
1Lord. Hurcomb, chairman of the
british section of the International
Council for Bird Preservation, ex-
plained that the council had invited
member countries to name one of
their birds for this purpose.
...SO many letters reached The
limes that it did nor attempt to
print them all. Instead it ran a table
0f principal references. The ﬁnal
tally has now given the robin 17
per cent Of the choices, with the
grouse in second place, with 11 per
cent.

The wren ﬁnished third, with
7 per cent; the plover next, with 6
P€r cent, and the gull ﬁfth, with 5
per cent.

Trailing were the bullﬁnch, the

chicken, blackbird, owl, Skylark, spar-
row, cuckoo, ostrich, raven, rook and
swan, in that order. But that was
only a small sampling of nominees.

Among those that did not score
enough to make the table were the
avocet, budgereegah, eagle, falcon,
gannet, goldﬁnch, goose, partridge
and pheasant.

A robin here is a true robin/ of
the redbreast variety. A plump little
fellow with a jaunty manner, it sings
all the year round in what the ex—
perts describe as a varied, deliberate
series of short, high warbling
phrases.

The voice of the North American
robin, which really is a thrush, is
not held in equal esteem. Its call-
notes are harsh and scolding.

The red grouse had strong par-
tisans in the poll. It is a sturdy,
short-winged game bird of dark
plumage, a bold eye and indomitable
manner.

“Why not a bird. with character
and one that is truly British, the red
grouse?” a correspondent demanded.

“Most of us have never even seen
a red grouse,” a woman answered
Shortly.

Many other birds were cham-
pioned with equal force. However,
the British genius for compromise
came through in a letter from Mid-
dlesex. .

“Why not let some modern artist
draw a bird, which could then be
taken equally to be any one of the
twenty or more kinds suggested'by
your correspondents, and thus satisfy
them all?” he asked. ' I I I

81

 




 

 

 

 

PET DIGEST

 

Sign up and you’re sav-
ing. You can put any size
“installment” you want into
Savings Bonds on the Pay-
roll Savings Plan—even 63¢
a day. In 40 months this
amount adds up to $750 and
$250 earned at maturity.

How to get paid 33/4% interest

for buying on the installment plan

Ever hear of a payment plan
that has no interest or carrying
charges, and pays you 331/3¢
for every $1 installment you
make? There is one, you know
—the Payroll Savings Plan for
US. Savings Bonds. Your pay-
roll clerk will set aside any size
installment you wish (as little
as $1.25 a week) and as the
money accumulates, buy your
Bonds. You can cash them with
interest anytime you need

them. But hold them for 7
years, 9 months, and the Gov-
ernment pays you at the rate
of 3%% a year, compounded
every 6 months —$4 guaranteed
for every $3 you invested!
The Beauty of Savings Bonds

. You now earn 3%% to ma-
turity, %% more than before.
Your Bonds are replaced free if
lost or stolen . You save more

than money —-you buy shares in
a stronger America.

 

Y 4******¥
ou save more than money _* 20mg
. . ,. ._ 4;
f“ 04"; Wlth U. S. SangS Bonds * nummsnnv 3
' :- '95' I
t‘4”: “wé This advertising is donated by The Advertising Council and this magazine. ’ '96')‘ *4:
*¥#4¥**

82

 

.‘ , , 7mm,

 




 

I» II [J |

N THE foothills of the Catskill

Mountains, a group of men are

struggling against time and na-
ture to save the rare animals of the
world from extinction.

From behind the Iron Curtain,
from Australia and from Africa they
are bringing scores of wild and
strange-looking beasts to stock a
breeding farm that they claim is the
ﬁrst of its kind.

Roland Lindemann, the man be-
hind the plan, has purchased six
farms surrounding his Catskill Game
Farm. Each farm has its own staﬁ‘
of specialists and each will breed a
different type of animal. Unless such
a project succeeds, stuffed specimens
in museums will be.» all that remain
of some species, he believes.

The emphasis of the animal-rescue
effort is on Africa right now because
that continent rapidly is becoming
too dangerous for expeditions. Mr.
Lindemann, who recently returned
from there, fears that 99 per cent of

Rare Animal

F arm Started

BY SUSAN STACY

l l l l

Africa’s game will be slain within a
few years by natives in need of food.

He blames this situation on the
governments that in years of colonial
rule failed to raise the living stand-
ards of the natives. “The natives are
not conservationists. They want to
put something in their stomachs,”
he said.

Fifty animals captured on the lat-
est expedition still are in quarantine
in Africa, and Mr. Lindemann is try-
ing to get them shipped to the
United States.

He is specializing in types that
are accustomed to sharp changes in
temperature and thus should be best
ﬁtted to survive the extremes of
weather in upstate New York. “It
takes the animals about one year to
acclimate themselves to the sur-
roundings,” he says.

Among his prizes now are ﬁve
Congo buffalo, thirteen pre-historic
horses, and rare species of zeba, gnu,
antelope and many other types.

 

BIRDS

PARRAKEETS: Reduced Prices.
Harlequins Clear Pieds, Violets,
Others. Breeders or Young. Stamp
Please. Frances Fahrlander, 501
Ridgelawn, Hamilton, Ohio.

 

 

WHAT IS OUR BIRD’S NAME?

A Personal Nameplate For Your Bird. Very
Attractive, Fits All Cages. Just Send Us
Your Bird’s Name, Up To Ten Letters, En-
close $l.00 Check Or Money Order, No
C.O.D. We Mail Post Paid. PETLINE COM-
PANY, 4471 West 160th St., Cleveland 35,
Ohio.

 

 

¥

 

 

 




 

 

 

W

. WA” ‘ :1.
' .\'- r ’1
. t .. q
\duu. n‘} q

.. ..

.‘J-t.

. w-

 

...“ ..--,-,-,:. .,- -_~ - . 394% .-..- ,
.' ‘Iﬁ'l n ﬂﬂn-Yt,“ , ‘M ’i.\l':’\i ‘
a' 11 . .‘zfx‘\-_:_.‘~h_~g.lf , ,

.,,,’ 5'” ’i‘i‘ezg -. '-

\r I‘ 1"

Police Dog Honored

BY CARL SAMANSKY

good dogs go, Big Sid must be
there now.

For the famed, sad-eyed Massa-
chusetts State Police bloodhound res-
cuer of hundreds of lost childen,
holder of a medal for valor, has gone
to sleep for the last time.

Putting Big Sid to sleep was a
ﬁnal act of mercy for the mighty dog
who was retired with full parade
honors at the state police academy in
Framingham last summer. For Big
Sid, like many another faithful police

I F THERE is a happy land where

veteran, developed bad legs in his
old age, and at the last, there was
partial paralysis.

After cremation, the ashes of the
10-year veteran of police service
were scattered to the winds in a
snowy forest near the Andover po-
lice barracks—a forest where in
greener times, Bid Sid followed
many an adventurous trial.

Within the barracks—alongside
the pictures of honored, deceased
state troopers—are hung Bid Sid’s
picture, and his medal.

60c.Os..0006‘00000COO00‘6°.OOOOOOOOO‘0.00000QOOOOGOO O. O. .0 Q0 00 O. O. 00 90°.
‘ O. 00 .9 00 O. O. 09 0Q 00 O. 00 O. O. .9 O. O. 0' 09.000900000699990. 0

 

Looking For Loyal Workers?

Employ the handicapped. You
will be pleased at the ability,
loyalty and grateful cooperation
that will ALWAYS be tendered.

Phone your local
employment agency

 

 

 

84

 

THE BOUVIER DE FLANDERS
IN AMERICA
Janet Mace
Collaborators include

outstanding authorities
in US. and Belgium

 

 

due in the near future

 

 




 

 

 

 

FIRST PENGUIN HATCHED
BY CHARLES RUSSO

 

 

 

Queenie, a king penguin at the
suburban Brookﬁeld Zoo, ratched a
chick recently—the ﬁrst penguin
ever hatched at the zoo and possibly
the ﬁrst time a king penguin has
been born in the United States,
ofﬁcials said.

The chick was named Katie, al-
though its sex is n0t known. The
chick, a coffee-colored bundle of
fluff, tumbled from her egg early
today, squawking lustily. But Queenie
quickly gathered the chick to her,
nestling it in her soft feathers.

Other penguins at the zoo, in-

cluding emperors and Adelies, gath—
ered around the fenced-in area that
served as a maternity ward.

“They all started talking at once,”
said Karl Plath, curator of birds.
“I’ve never heard such a conversa-
tion. They looked like a bunch of
amateur surgeons.”

A day and night watch was kept
over the penguin cage. The hatching
was ﬁrst noticed, and Dr. Weaver
W’illiamson, zoo veterinarian, was
called and entered the cage. He
found the shell nearly cracked and
completed the job with a flick of the
ﬁnger.

66666666666666‘60
i O. .0 60 .0 .0 O. O. O. O. O. .0 O. O. O. 00

 

 

Comp/imam la

 

AMERICAN-BELGIAN SCHIPPERKE CLUB, Inc.
P. 0. BOX 56
MALIBU, CALIFORNIA

 

 

-- ‘ Mm"... .

‘*—"~ ~n-w-~w_n-..w_._....~ .

 




 

 

 

PET DIGEST

 

Giovanni Buitoni with Chico his favorite horse and

 

"Mister” his poodle

Buitoni -- Friend of Animals

BY MARIE WHITE

NCE UPON a time his treat-

ment of his horse was a handy

gauge to a man’s character.
\X’hile mechanization has somewhat
outmoded this criterion, it still per-
tains in the case of industrialist Gio-
vanni Buitoni.

Best known for his brilliant
achievements as head of the vast
Buitoni and Perugina Enterprises,
he has made the two brands syn-

86

onymous the world over with gour-
met foods and confections respec-
tively. A pioneer in the ﬁeld of
nutritional improvement, Giovannl
Buitoni’s signiﬁcant contributions
include the development of a 20%
protein macaroni, the ﬁrst and only
improvement in the thousand year
history of this popular food.
Naturally the life and career of
this remarkable man ﬁnds him the

 




BUITONI—FRIENDS 0F ANIMALS

subject of numerous articles, but one
little known story is of especial in—
terest to readers of Pet Digesr. It
is the story not of Mr. Buitoni, suc-
cessful industrialist, but of Gio-
vanni, a man and Snuﬁ’y who became
his horse, although it wasn’t planned
that way.

Snuﬂy just happened to be stabled
along with a collection of blooded
stock from which Mr. Buitoni was
to choose. “That one’s an outlaw”
Giovanni was told. “Completely un-
manageable.” Snuﬂy snufﬂed mis-
chievously.

Giovanni appraised the huge un-
gainly animal. Snuﬁ‘y appraised the
huge, handsome man. A challenge
was exchanged. Snuﬁ‘y put on a
good show, but within half an hour

ness and responded to his gentle
commands.

Years later Snuffy was still putting
on a pretty good show but his ad-
vanced age was evident. Reluctantly
Giovanni arranged for Snuﬂ‘y’s re-
tirement to a spacious meadow
where he now grazes away the re-
maining days of his twilight years.
Editor’s note to dog lovers: Mr. Bui-
toni loves them, too., Recently he
proved it by assuring prospective
employees, Mr. and Mrs. John Smith,
that their French Poodle—Mister,
would he a welcome guest in his
home. For months the couple had
sought a post where their pet would
he acceptahle to no avail hut now
Mister enjoys full run of the Bui-
toni’s Paramus estate and every-

 

he acknowledged Giovanni’s expert- hody’s happy ahout it. W

JOIN

The New York Obedience Training Club is a thriving new organ-
ization which finally give-s the city’s dog owners a means of
expressing their views on matters of concern to them.
It conducts weehly dog obedience training classes under the general
supervision of the cluh’s president, Charles Leedham, co—author ( with
Milo Pearsall) of the authoritative “Dog Ohedience Training”;
and author of “Care of the Dog.” Both hooks are puhlished hy
Scrihner’s.
In addition the club is preparing a schedule of programs for meet-
ings. These will include experts in the dog fancy, veterinarians,
and ﬁlms and other special materials of particular interest to dog
owners.
The club also intends to represent the interests of dog owners with
respect to the widespread han on dogs in apartments, to pending
legislation, and to other important matters.
It offers dog owners an opportunity to get together with other
dog owners for their mutual advantage and enioyment, In a
relaxed and congenial atmosphere. The public is invited to
come and see the New York Obedience Training Club in Action.
Sorkinformation write to Fay Gold, 503 West 45th Street, New
or 36.

 

 

 

87

 




 

 

 

o n u u u n o. 00 u u u u u u u n n u u n 00 co 066666666‘6666‘0‘66666669996066666.0660 o
99009090999900.0099“99900099990000.0090.9Q. O. o. to o. 09 to 00 00 00 09 00 u o. o. o. o. o. 00 oo o oo oo o. .0 to oo o. o. «0.

TO A SIAMESE CAT

Soft-padded creature of cocoa and
cream and eyes that change their
amethyst gleam to ruby red with a
ﬂicker of light, mysterious Orients
sacred delight! What God or Demon
endowed you and why with your
hair-raising nerve-jarring peacock
cry?

Alice IVerriherr

 

FAMILIAR ANTARCTIC

The best-known dwellers of the
Antarctic are the penguins, of which
at least eight species breed in the
snowy barrens.

 

CARLSBAD CAVERN
CARES FOR PETS

A possible new trend for national
parks, which do not now admit
travelers with cats or dogs: The new
United States Park Service Visitors
Center here provides kennels in
which visitors may park pets while
exploring the cave.

 

PAL TO MAN’S
BEST FRIEND

. A hotel owner, asked if he ob-
}ected to guests bringing dogs with
them, commented:

“In all the time I’ve been an inn-
keeper, I’ve never had to toss an
intoxicated dog out on his ear. No
dog has ever swipe-d one of my
towels and they don’t use them
to shine their shoes with. Thev don’t
smoke in bed, either.” J

TO MY TEN CATS

Curl up and close your eyes
dreamily two by two,
like Chinese lanterns going out:

Gold—emerald—Siamese blue.
Lest in the velvet groove of night
I’ll wake and I’ll behold

twenty balloons of magic light:
Siamese-blue——emerald~—gold!

Alice Wernherr

=X< >X< =X< =II< =X<

“Dog; are the .flt‘ctﬁgefl creatures.”

“Why do yea my that?”

“Became they perrpire through
their parity.”

=X= =X< >X< #8 =X<

DO YOU LOVE YOUR PET?
MY-O-MY VITAMINS
FOR DOGS AND CATS

THE WONDER VITAMIN
AND MINERAL FORMULA

$3.00 at all better
Pet counters

A product of

PET HEALTH INC.
Box 572

Ansonia Station
N. Y. 23, N. Y.

CAPITAL AVAILABLE
Adequate finances for meritorious
products in the per field. Write full
particulars. Do not send valuable papers
or samples. PET DIGEST, Box 10-1),
240 West 75th Street, N. Y. 23, N- Y-

 

 

O. O. O. .0 00900. CO. .0
u so 9 o o o o °°°°<><>°° .
QQQQQQQQQQOQOQQOQ».666.6666W66.°..0..¢”0..0..°..°..°.. H u n 00 u o. oo oo 00 u 0‘ '0 ‘6'O”O”<>“ “ o
n n u n n u n u n 09 00 N n n n u n 00 ..°.. .9 u o. N 00 N 09 9’ ” " ” “ u " N ” O.

88

 




 

 

 

 
    

 

 

Rover Says,

“A Clean Dog
13 A Happy Dog ”

R O V E R' S
DOG SHAMPOO

-—It removes odors, kills fleas,
and leaves his coat shining
and beautiful

——It lathers in hard or soft water

FLEA K‘LLING $3,351
RElb'u'.n,ygu_5, 0009 3*

“40:16:? was 60‘: FOR YOUR DOG SAKE—TRY IT

Your favoriate pet counter has it.

recommended by

PET DIGEST '

 

$4
«SADVERTISED Twain;

Guaranteed to please —— or your money refunded!
RICHARD E. ROVER C0" Hoboken, N. J.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

    

Flying Squirrels '-

Cunnirng little fellows with their
“bundle” of tricks. Admired and
loved throughout the world. Hun-
dreds in stock. Write today for
prices, literature, and pictures.
Please enclose 10 cents to cover post-
age.
GREESON’S
FLYING SQUIRREL RANCH
905 N. Munroe St., Arlington 1, Va.
”The largest Flying Squirrel
Ranch in the World”

 

 

 

  

TRafalgar 3-6784

.“

JONAss TYPEWRITER
SERVICE, INC.

2025 B’WAY (Bet. 69th 8. 70th Streets)
NEW YORK 23, N. Y.
All American and European Type-
writers, Adding and Office Ma-
chines Serviced, Repaired, Sold,
Rented.

 

 

 

 

Subscribe to

PET DIGEST
(Published Quarterly)

240 West 75th Street
New York 23, N. Y.
$4.00, 1 year; $7.00, 2 years;
$10.00, 3 years

 

90

 

 

PETCOTE

FOR YOUR FAVORITE DOG
Sizes From 8-16
ASSORTED COLORS
Reversible Raincoats That Really

Protect Your Pooch.

THE PETCOTE CO.

”FINE FASHION FOR PETS”
924 Atlantic Avenue
Atlantic City, N. J.

 

 

 

 

POEMS WANTED
To Be Set To Music

Send one or more of your best poems
today for FREE EXAMINATION. Any
Subject. Immediate Consideration.

Phonograph Records Made
CROWN MUSIC CO.
49 W. 32 St., Studio 462 New York I

 

 

 

 

WANTED

A copy of Stroud’s Digest on the Diseases
of Birds, for use in ﬁghting for the
Stroud cause. If you have a copy of the
Digest that you will either donate or sell
to help the cause, contact:

Margaret A. Mclallen .
1328 Jackston St. Glendale 7, Calif.

 

 

 

 

looking for a

PUBLISHER

Your book can be published, promoted, dis-
tributed by successful, reliable company noted .
for prompt, personal service. All subiects. Free
Editorial Report. Inquiries also invited from
businesses, organizations, churches, etc. Send
for Free Booklet. Vantage Press, Dept. PW,
I20 W. Blst St., New York I, N. Y.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

A Statement of

Audubon Philosophy

We believe in the wisdom of nature’s desivn.
C

We know that soil, water, plants, and wild creatures
depend upon each other and are vital to human life.

We recognize that each living thing links to many
others in the chain of nature.

We believe that persistent research into the intricate
patterns of outdoor life will help to assure wise use
of earth’s abundance.

We condemn no wild creature and work to assure
that no living species shall be lost.

We believe that every generation should be able to
experience spiritual and physical refreshment in
places where primitive nature is undisturbed.

So we will be vigilant to protect wilderness areas,
refuges, and parks, and to encourage good use of
nature’s storehouse of resources.

We dedicate ourselves to the pleasant task of opening
the eyes of young and old that all may come to enjov
the beauty of the outdoor world, and to share in con-
serving its wonders forever.
NATIONAL AUDUBON SOCIETY
1130 FIFTH AVENUE

NEW YORK 28, N. Y.

 

 

 

 

 

91

 




11;;HUMANE SOCIETY OF N. Y. DOG SHOW & LUNCHEON

'_ ECENTLY, the Humane Society of New York held a D98
'QWFashion Show and Luncheon at the Sheraton Easr Hotel. T116

. Canine Cuties wore exclusive creations which were custom
; dﬁS-igned and executed by Saks, Fifth Avenue. Eveyrone really
put on the dog and had a snifﬁng good time. Even the two Fats
who took part in the fashion showr did nor disrupt the proceedings
and they were treated with either utter disdain or the utmost courrESY‘

 

 

 




DOGS

FOR SALE

 

ALASKAN MALAMUTES

ALASKAN IMALAMUTE PUPS. AKC
registered sled dogs and show dogs. The
friendliest of dogs, lovable and alert.
Decotcau Kennels, Route 3, Ames, Iowa.

BOSTON PUPPIES

AKC registered Boston puppies. Healthy,
wormed and inoculated, will ship. Cham-
pion sired and others. B. T. Bowditch,
Cement City, Michigan.

BEAGLES
BEAGLE PUPPIES nice Christmas pre—
sents, puppies nicely marked 2 to 8
months old. Roger Meckley, R-1, Glen
Rock, Pa.

PUGS
BEAUTIFUL PUPPIES. Pugs (black or

 

 

fawn) and Westies Oser Kennels, 14423
State Road, 14 West, Fort Wayne, In-
diana, Arcola 5-3240.

ENGLISH SHEPHERD

Buy an English Shepherd pure bred pup
for a watchdog. Childrens’ guardians and
a helper for stock, $15. Partly trained,
10 montss old, $25. Creek-Side Kennels,
Beardsley, Minn.

 

PEDIGREE SERVICE

PEDIGREE SERVICE
From official AKC records. Typed, Cham-
pions in red. 4 generations, $150-$300.

Bennett’s Pedigree Service, Rehoboth,
Mass.

ITALIAN GREYHOUNDS
PuPpies for show, also pets, stud service.

arco Eeynor, 121 Macdougall St., New
Wing 7-3929-

CHIHUAHUA
Chihuahua Smooth, Long Coats, Brown

Females, Studs, Puppies, Show Pets. For-

$ft9é73i9ev§vLChickennelg Marathon, N. Y-

 

 

 

 

COLLIE PUPPIES

Best blood lines. For show, breeder, pets.
Starbell Collies, Harvard, Ill., 3 P-H-
W—3-5703.

POODLES

Miniature and Toy Poodles. Puppies and
Stud Service. Quality and temperament
guaranteed. Miss Silvia Allen, Box 568,
Wilmington, N. C.

PUGS

Pugs, Puppies Stud Service Champ Lines,
Reasonable, Shots Apricot Fawn. Button’s
Pugs, Rt. 1, Adel, Iowa. PH 468-2339.
T

PUGS

Stud Service and Puppies, Fawns of
Blacks Norik Kennels, Reg., Rt. 3, Nor-
folk, Nebraska.

SCOTTISH TERRIERS

November litter for Christmas deliveries.
Black-brindles; males, females ,AKC
registered. Brooke Chamblin, Warrenton,
Virginia.

LABRADOR RETRIEVERS

Labrador Retrievers Pups, Stud, AKC.
Walden 11. Mr. and Mrs. Kurt Unkel-
bach, Croton Falls Road, Mahopac, N. Y.
(Next to Putnum County Playhouse)
RED. 3, Mahopac 8-6161

TOY POODLES PUPPIES E 11 type
AKC POODLE . xce ent
white, silver stud service. Arnold 5-1376)
U. S. 31, N. South Bend, Ind.

VIZSLOS

REGISTERED VIZSLO PUPS. Started
dogs, Bred females, Top Bloodlines.
Frank Engstrom, Grey Eagle, Minn.

TOY AND MINIATURE POODLES .

At stud, Black Son of CH. Alsplrngof
Exton, White Pointed, Apricot being
shown. For sale, young proven matrons,
and studs. Also puppies, most colors, $75
and up. Verna Dawson, Rock Island,

 

 

93

 




OIL PORTRAITS

CLASSIFIED ADVERTISEMENTS

RABBITS

 

Portrait in oil on 12” x 16” canvas. Send
$8.75 and photograph or snap-shot. In
lifelike painting specify eyes, hair, com-
plexion colors. Otto Hueser, 4612 Broad-
way, Chicago 40, Ill.

INTEREST TO WOMEN

Quilting, Rugcraft, Remnants; Silk, Cot-
tons, Velvet, Woolen, Samples 35c. Free
lists. Rainbow, Estil Springs 3, Tenn.

MAGAZINES

FOR BIRD FANCIERS
A specialty magazine for lovers of Bud-
gies, Canaries, Finches, etc. Special offer,
6 months $1.00. American Cage-Bird
Magazine, 3449 N. Western, Dept. OP,
Chicago 18, Illinois.

PHOTOGRAPHY

YOUR CHILD AND PET

ANGELA specializes in Human-Animal
Relationship. My photographs are life-
long treasurers. My commercial work is
endorsed by leading concerns. Photos
taken anywhere in the world. Angela
Calomiris, 29 Jane St., New York 14,
N. Y. Phone: CHelsea 3-1735.
PHOTOGRAPHY IS MY BUSINESS

Our study of animals qualiﬁes us to do
a masterpiece. Your pet will always be
with you when Celeski is the photo-
grapher. Sal Celeski, 20751 Carlysle,
Detroit, Michigan.

ANIMAL PHOTOGRAPHERS

FINEST ANIMAL PHOTOGRAPHY

Pictures that you will always cherish.
Photography by Jager, 3200 Chelsea Ter-
race, Baltimore 16, Maryland. Phone
MOhawk 4-8720.

PRINTING

Printing, office supplies wholesale. 10,000
items. Save 50%. Literature free. Stiefel,
31 Lehigh Place, Irvington 11, N. I.

1000 name, address, labels 88c. Rubber
pocket stamp 88c. Printing, rubber stamp

catalog. Jordan’s, 552 West O’Connor,
Lima, Ohio.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

96

Beautiful palomino rabbits, 2 to 3
months, four dollars each. Ship any-
where. Round Top Rabbits, Damariscotta,
Maine.

 

Pedigreed English Angoras from eight
pounds and over, foundations stock. Also
pedigreed Himalayans, very nice mark-
ings. Ray Cunningham, Tekamah, Nebr.
11.

 

STAMPS

 

70,000 stamps sell out. Bargain lot:
packets, sets, rare stamps, gift $1. Extra
special $2. Giant assortment $5. High
value packet $3. sellout list, samples
25c. Persile, 436 N. Y. Ave., Brooklyn
25, N. Y.

SONGWRITERS

 

 

Songpoems wanted! Collaborate with
professional songwriters on equal basrs.
Share royalties. Songwriters Contact Co.,
1619-C, Broadway, New York 19, N. Y.

SUPPLIES

Christmas gifts for pets! Protect pets with
St. Francis of Assisi medal and chain.
Patron Saint of all animals, $1.25. War-
rens, Box'8426, Medeira Beach 8, Fla.

WANTED
Old and odd figures. Birds, cats, dogs,
horses, curios. Will pay top price. Write
fully to: Box 5-D.

VETERINARIAN WANTED

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Beautiful acre location, successful board-
ing kennel, no veterinarian in rapidly
growing city. An unusual opportunity
awaiting a qualified veterinarian. Write
for full particulars to: Box 123, Ormond
Beach, Florida.

WRITERS

Writers! Free list of top-notch U.S.A.
markets for short stories, articles, books
and plays. Write for your free copy
today! Literary Mead, 915 Broadway,
N. Y. 10.

!‘_

___-

 

   
  
    

_ ._.._M,.;_=_9._ ,“WMW _¢n___ . _._._ .

i
i
l

          




 

 

 

   
 
 
  
   
     
    
     

NOW
SHE’S
ON
HER
OWN!

The girl in this picture is blind. The
reason why she walks with such head-
high confidence is the trusted, well-
trained guide dog at her side.

For many who are blind, nothing could bring a greater sense of self-assurance
and freedom than a guide dog. Help sightless men .and women find a new life
of dignity and independence by giving your generous support to a vital humani-

tarian service, Guiding Eyes for the Blind.

Your gift can mean much to one without sight. For example, your check for
$10.00 will provide one full day’s training with a guide dog. How many days
Will you sponsor? Your gift in any amount, large or small, will mean a great

deal to a deserving blind person.

You can help find freedom for one who is blind. Send your contribution
lOdCIY ‘I’o;

Guiding Eyes for the Blind

Yorktown Heights, New York

  




Photo by Charles Stem

W (bl/e/éome CAi/clren anal pets
.911 ./4// Our ui/clingd

BALMAR CONSTRUCT10N COMPANY, Inc.

1093 SECOND AVENUE
NEW YORK CITY

 




Marketing Research Report 346
August 1959

Conditions and Practices
‘ Bruises in Cattle

by Joseph E. Rickenbacker

‘Farmer CoaperativeService . U. S. Department of Agriculture

 




FARMER COOPERATIVE SERVICE
U. 3. DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

Joseph G. Knapp, Administrator

The Farmer Cooperative Service conducts research studies and service activi—
ties of assistance to farmers in connection with cooperatives engaged in marketing
farm products, purchasing farm supplies, and supplying business services. The work
of the Service relates to problems of management, organization, policies, merchan—
dising, product quality, costs, efficiency, financing, and membership.

The Service publishes the results of such studies, confers and advises with
officials of farmer cooperatives; and works with educational agencies, cooperatives,
and others in the dissemination of information relating to cooperative principles and
practices. '

 

This study was conducted under authority of the Agricultural Marketing Act of
1946 (RMA, Title II).

 

 

 

Contents
Page

Summary ————————————————————————————————————————————— i
Bruise test for cattle under ordinary market conditions ——- 3
Bruise losses ————————————————————————————————————————— 6
Location on carcass ———————————————————————————————— 6
Type of cattle ————————————————————————————————————— 8
Individual test lots ————————————————————————————————— 10
Carcass grade _____________________________________ 11
Location in truck __________________________________ 13
Handling phase ____________________________________ 14
Causes of bruise loss __________________________________ 18
Animal characteristics ————————————————————————————— 18
Facilities _________________________________________ 20
Handling techniques ________________________________ 24
Handler's actions and attitudes —————————————————————— 26
Miscellaneous factors ______________________________ 28
Some implications of the survey ———————————————————————— 29
Appendix _____________________________________________ 32

Supplemental information on bruise test for cattle
under ordinary market conditions .................. 32
Description of an actual test ———————————————————————— 39

 

For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, U. S. Government Printing Ofﬁce
Washington 25, D. C. - Price 335 cents

 

 

 

 




‘rTiﬂn'r‘ '9‘ s.

 

 

 

 

Summary

Bruise injury has been amajor prob-
lem for the livestock and meat industry
for many years. Carcass bruises, par-
ticularly in cattle, represent one of the
major loss areas in the industry. This
loss has been estimated as being substan—
tially higher than that from crippling and
death in transit. On the basis of results
obtained in the tests made as a part of
this study, the national loss on cattle
from carcass bruise damage is probably
around $12 million a year.

It is difficult to say precisely who
bears this loss because of the complexi—
ties of livestock marketing and processed
me at merchandising. Each segment of the
industry—producer, transporter, market
agency, packer, and even the consumer—-
bears the loss in whole or in part at one
time or another.

A major obstacle to effective loss
control and reduction has been this ina—
bility to fix the responsibility for bruise
injury. Cattle pass through many hands
during marketing and processing and
carcass damage is generally not dis—
cernible until after slaughter. Thus,
time, place, and cause of damage have
been sufficiently indefinite as to permit
almost any handler of the cattle to deny,
or at least question, any part of his re-
sponsibility for the loss.

Because farmers and their livestock
marketing agencies are so vitally con-
cerned with this loss area, Farmer Co—
operative Service began a study of the
bruise loss problem in 1954. Arrange-
ments were made with the Ohio State

University and the Ohio Agricultural Ex—
periment Station to develop a means of
helping fix the responsibility for bruise
damage.

Although this study did not definitely
fix responsibility for bruise loss, labo-
ratory research produced much valuable
information useful in considering the
problem of cattle bruises: For instance,-
animals may be bruised at any time up un—
til the blood pressure approaches zero-
even after stunning. Carcass location,
degree of impact, and the emotional
state of the animal have an influence on
bruise injury. Animals, somewhat... like
human beings, have varying degrees of
"susceptibility" to bruising. This may
sometimes. be explained or influenced
by previous bruising or by introducing
compounds into the system to retard
bruises.

To more positively establish the cause
of these bruises, Farmer Cooperative
Service initiated research. under condi-
tions generally prevailing in the market-
ing and processing of cattle. We assumed
that certain practices and conditions
involved in handling the cattle could be
related to carcass damage from bruising.

This assumption, in turn, was based
on the premise that some bumps cause
bruises. During the handling and proc-
essing, bumps frequently happened. Pre-
vious investigations by Farmer Cooper-
ative Se rvic e, in cooperation with
Livestock Conservation, Inc., indicated
that bumps were likely to cause bruises.

 




«:1. V.

fit-.3 caﬁ

as. £51.; .

4-5

. I "‘ :I’i'isﬁ: 'ﬁm (:5: 12-72;.

‘54:”)? r

 

W} t
‘5'
‘r.
, .
1
, ‘ d
‘.
VI
‘- 4
M j
.V H
,_.
I"
I ,
L“ V
“f .
.r-)
3,1.
,1!
“.74
«or
.,‘\
w
i
j;
. .
r‘ j
’ 1..
)
.. y.
.5:
. ”.7
,: r:
.‘_d‘
:(T‘
' \
. 1
In")
1-;
.1. J
‘5
.2
2’, .9.
:' 5
/v ‘I
3:,
h ,3
‘1
l".
j. I.
‘33.”?
1'!“
A."
"awe
w
11‘,
:' 5
! z
rm,
, 1
, H.
V“,
f.‘ w
I ;:
.. ;‘
...
.’
a:
.,".
‘2 v
1'.
,,.u
L A
7m,
ll‘."\
4!.
'3:
w (“1
i:
..
-. .7
; j
3%
“mi
!.
, z
“A
5.”;
(‘
’I U
.‘I t
1.,\'l
.‘l
1 .e‘
‘y
..
i
. 1|
.
5"
N
'l
.‘V’
s“
‘ ‘I
, l
9.}:
.y,
.5,
w
,

In this study researchers tabulated
bumps on test lots of cattle from loading
through slaughter on the basis of indi-
vidual cattle by carcass location and
handling phase. These data were then
checked against a record of actual car—
cass bruise damage obtained after the
test animals were slaughtered.

Thirteen tests were conducted in the
Midwest and Rocky Mountain areas dur-
ing 1958, involving a total of 720 head of
cattle of various weight, sex, and grade.
The animals were slaughtered at five
different packinghouses. The total bruise
loss on the cattle used in the tests
amounted to $60.40 per 100 head. About
one—third represented loss due to tissue
trim itself and the balance was attributed
to devaluation of the side because of ex-
cessive trim.

Largest losses were in the hip or loin
area, both on the basis of trim weight
and financial loss. Shoulders accounted
for e second highest loss area.

The bruise loss on steers was ap-
proximately three times that suffered
on heifers. Likewise, higher grade cat-
tle suffered less carcass bruise damage
than did plainer grades.

The largest number of bruises oc—
curred after the animals were in the
packers' hands; that is, during the move-
ment from packer holding pens through
slaughter. Although about three times
as many bruises were identified with
this slaughter phase, the financial loss
was almost twice as large as that at-
tributed to other handling phases. This
result indicated that severity of bruise

ii

injury was greater during loading, un—
loading, and the like.

These tests pointed clearly to certain
causes of carcass injury that could and
did occur in all handling phases. These
were (1) animal characteristics; (2) facil-
ities involved in transporting and handling
animals; (3) handling techniques; (4) ac-
tions and attitudes of personnel actually
moving or handling the cattle; and (5) such
miscellaneous factors as weather con-
ditions, length—of-haul, and the like. Cer-
tain of these were of greater importance
during one handling phase than others.

No single segment of the industry can
be saddled with full responsibility for
bruise loss. Rather, bruise loss is an
industrywide problem. There was posi-
tive proof that livestock could be moved
safely and without injury, since 30 per-
cent of the test animals went through
unscathed.

We believe two approaches are likely
to yield worthwhile results in coping
with the bruise problem. Adopting safe,
simple facilities would enable handlers
to make full use of the most approved
handling techniques. Promoting safe-
handling programs would alert handlers
to the close relationship of their attitudes
and actions to bruise loss.

Although somewhat remote at the
moment, some relief may develop from
products which can be administered to
cattle economically and easily to raise
the native bruise resistance of the ani—
mal. Some steps have been taken to ini-
tiate research programs to bring this
about.

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Handling Conditions and Practices
Causing Bruises in Cattle

by

Joseph E. Rickenbacker
Transportation Branch
Management Services Division

The livestock industry loses millions
of dollars each year from loss and dam-
age to meat animals during marketing
and processing. Some of these losses
are obvious, such as dead or crippled
animals arriving at a public market or
a processing plant. Others might be
more properly termed concealed losses—
bruise injury, shrink and disease, and
the rather intangible one generally re-
ferred to in the trade as "loss of market
bloom."

Many of these losses, if not all of
them, may be in whole or part closely
associated with transportation. This is
particularly true if we think of trans-
portation as including all handling from
the time the animals are first sorted for
shipment, through all the various stages
of marketing, until the animal is actu-
ally slaughtered at the processing plant.

However, the loss may also be caused
by a condition which occurred before the
transportation phase. For example, an
animal in a weak or emaciated condition
may die during the trip. In a sense this

 

1Rickenbacker, Joseph E.
Rpt. No. 247.
2Rickenbacker, Joseph E.
operative Service, U. S. Dept. of Agr.

Farmer Cooperative Service, U. S.
Causes of Losses i1! Trucking livestock.
June 1958.

losses of Livestock in Transit in Midwestern and Western States. Mar.
Dept. of Agr.

1

loss would be a transportation loss but
the real blame belongs to the producer.

To consider these problems of live-
stock losses in transit, Farmer Coopera-
tive Service began a research project in
1954. This survey indicated that the total
economic loss due to death and crippling
was approximately $8 million a year at
average annual prices for 1955 and 1956.1
In general, dead and cripple loSses
among animals hauled by motortruck
exceeded those among animals moved by
railroad, often by substantial margins.

During 1956, FCS conducted a special
truck survey at 8 major public markets
of some “5,400 loads of live animals ob-
served during unloading. This survey
revealed definite "loss associated con-
ditions" which occurred in vehicles con-
taining dead and crippled animals, or
both. These loss associatedconditions
included such things as obvious over-
crowding, improper bedding, inadequate
or improper ventilation, excessive use
of persuaders and failure to use parti-
tions where needed.2

Res.
June 1958.
Mar. Res. Rpt. No. 251, Farmer Co—

 




Li'bjtuiet .

«A ‘_- v. .; 4
,~,.«, 4...

;:.:L"r~’§§'f:.x&

A ~=s£§£z-~-:::-

-“j'<. '9‘“ :
IE, »- ’~>"’1:

 

5&3, mg

~.. ;__I "iiw"tz;.w’ gains” .""‘ ‘

$5») 2.1.?

. >4 . Nuc— . .._ pvt—V :...A _ . ‘:~ ‘ hf ‘; 4.",
I51 ‘2 rheieg- SxéNag-xs. " ”parks—Mu.

me ..4—.. « ‘2
:f‘JIs-uﬁ'fx‘}

r-j»; gum ngx “fa‘gm‘ . “45"" 1:th ' . . -

A. ‘v‘-¢;':.~‘ . ici-u:
”a _»_ w . _~;__ -—

4 J - ‘5- 55‘»? .5; ‘3;

 

The problem of bruise loss has been
of even greater significance than dead

and cripple losses and extremely vexa- '

tious to the industry.

Because bruise damage is usually not
discernible until after the animal is
slaughtered and the hide removed, it

has always been extremely difficult to
fix responsibility for the bruise. This

situation prevented setting up programs
to curtail these losses.

There has also been a great deal of
controversy over the question of who
pays for the cost of the bruise. Com-
plexities of livestock marketing have
made it impossible to give a specific
answer. At one time or another, each
segment of the industry—-the farmer,
the transportation agency, the market
agency, the packer, and even the con-

sumer—has stood the loss, in whole or‘
in part. Certainly each recognized that _

the losses did occur and that somebody
paid for them.

To reduce bruise losses, FCS felt the
most effective way would be to develop
some method of positively determining
the responsibility for the damage. Then
educational programs could be instituted
which might result in improving condi—
tions to the point that such losses could
be minimized.

We decided the only practical means
of determining bruise responsibility
would be through a study of the bruise
itself. After consulting with various re-
search agencies, we concluded that de-
termining the "age of a bruise" could
lead to the person or agency responsible
for it.

For example, if the age of the bruise
could be set at 24 hours, and the animal
had been on a truck en route to market
24 hours before slaughter, the bruise

would have been caused by something
that happened in the motor vehicle. The
trucker would then be responsible for
the loss.

FCS approached this problem of bruise

' loss on two fronts: (1) through experi-

mental research under laboratory con-
trolled conditions; and (2) special
research under ordinary conditions
prevailing during the marketing and
processing of cattle.

Research to determine the age of
bruised tissue was begun in 1954 by the
Ohio State University and the Ohio Agri-
cultural Experiment Station, under con-
tract with Farmer Cooperative Service.

Researchers found that they were
entering a virtually uncharted field. Not
only had there been no work done onlive-
stock bruises but very little was known
about human bruises.

These researchers conducted experi-
ments under strict laboratory controlled
conditions and used selected lots of
animals.

Their research developed many sig-
nificant findings.

They learned a great deal about the
structure of a bruise. Now one can es—
timate in a general way the approximate
age of bruised tissue by closely examin—
ing the color of the tissue itself as well

as the appearance externally on a living
animal.

Unfortunately, the researchers were
unable to develop a simple test which
could precisely determine the age of a
givenbruised tissue. But two tests were
developed, one based on color changes
in the bruised tissue, and another based
on the conductivity of the tissue. These
tests are able to establish age of bruised

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

tissue in rather broad categories, such
as less than 60 hours old, 60 to 72 hours
old, 3 to 4 days, 4 to 8 days old, and
over 8 days old. These categories have
limited use in fixing responsibility for
bruise loss because most cattle are
moved to market one day, sold the next
and slaughtered on the third day.

Findings disclosed animals may suf-
fer bruise injury at any time up until the
blood pressure falls to approximately
zero. This means that the carcass can
be bruised after stunning at a slaughter
house.

Animals of the same type and grade
had varying degrees of susceptibility to
bruise. This susceptibility was influ-
enced by different factors. For exam—
ple, an animal that had suffered a pre-
vious bruise was not as susceptible to a
second bruise, and, if he suffered a

second and then a third, the third bruise

/was likely to be less severe and to heal

more rapidly than the second. The loca-
tion on the carcass and the relative force
of impact greatly influenced both the
extent and severity of bruise damage.

Emotional state of the animal also
exerted a very strong influence on sus-
ceptibility to bruise damage. Animals
highly excited and nervous bruised more
easily than those who were in a more calm
or normal "frame of mind."

All of these findings were tremen-
dOusly important from a scientific stand-
point alone, but more importantly, they
pointed to ways of reducing bruise loss.

The laboratory work and the findings
set the stage for the work undertaken in
this report involving ordinary marketing
and processing of cattle.3

Bruise Test for Cattle Under Ordinary Market Conditions4

In the ordinary marketing and proc-
essing of livestock, cattle pass through
many hands. This was a complicating
factor in designing a test for use under
these conditions. The problem was met
by limiting the test animals to cattle
already owned by the packing concern
before movement to slaughter, or "di—
rects" as they are called. The use of
such directs not only reduced the num—
ber of hands through which test cattle
passed but also eliminated the possibility

 

of losing test shipments by having them
sold for disposition off the market or to
non-cooperating packers.

Since climate considerations are not
as important in the case of cattle as in
other species of livestock, it was not
necessary to spread the tests over the
various seasons of the year. The num-
ber of test lots, however, provided a
sample that covered the various classes
and grades of cattle. The tests were

3For reports on certain aspects cﬂ‘the research done at Ohio State University, refer to the following

articles and publications:

Hamdy, Deatherage,zuuiShinowara, Bruisefrissue.

. Biochemical Changes ResultingiﬁwnnBlunt Injury.

Proc. of the Soc. of Explt. Biol. and Med. 95:255-258, 1957. .
Hamdy, Kunkle, RheinszuuiDeatherage. Bruise Tissue.I]; Determinationcﬂ‘the Age of a Bruise. Jour.

of Animal Sc. Vol. 16, No. 2. May 1957.

Rickenbacker, Joseph E. Biochemical Problemsileetermining the Agecﬂ’Bruised Animal Tissue. Serv.

Rpt. 42. Farmer Cooperative Service, U. S. Dept.
An expanded discussion of the methodology and philosophy of this test is included in the appendix. A

14>

of Agr. 1959.

detailed description of an actual test, illustrating all the techniques and procedures used, also ap—

pears in the appendix.

 




I
t
i
' w
t
‘1
5.’
t
1975'
.
r
i
I
1:
'l
a
m3
1'
w
2 V;
w '1
i“
If
‘I‘!‘
T;
f)
’ r
, .
,‘I
it
.
‘fl
3!.
. .
i‘ j
‘ if
j}
J;
'1'.
M
H.
3,:
M
f?!
JJ
"I‘
1»
"U
H.
.
l);
Li!
L?

«7.2.45.

'2 5.1;

V- .-.,:/ ~‘ «z.»‘u
d.- . 1-4.”.‘W .H

 

 

conducted at a sufficient number of plants
and loading points to allowfor variations
in facilities.

We designed the test to relate poten-
tial injury causing factors—bumps be-
tween two animals or into objects—to
carcass bruise damage. Hence, the
popular name for the test—a "bump-
bruise" test.

Observation of test animals covered
the time from the beginning of loading
into the truck for transport on through
slaughter. Although this arrangement
did not take into account any conditions
which may have existed before loading
time, it was the only practical period for
observation. The use of stanchion-fed
animals would have met this shortcom-
ing but here we would have been falling
back on laboratory-like conditions. In-
stead, we selected test lots that had been
onfeed for a minimum of 60 days before
shipment, which entailed minimum pre-
shipment handling and bruising.

To facilitate the association of poten-
tial bruise injury with specific handling
incidents, we br oke the observation
period into specific handling phases.
These phases, largely self-explanatory,
were: loading, in transit (over-the—road
haul), unloading, yarding, and slaughter.
Slaughter is better considered as a two-
part phase, one part involving movement
to the knocking box and thereafter up to
sticking.

We further insured identification by
recording the potential bruise injuries
by carcass location—right or left Side
and by general body area-hip, rib, shoul-
der, and the like. Each animal in the
test lot was individually identified by a
number applied to the hip area before
loading. After slaughter, the carcass
carried the same number on a metal tag
placed in the brisket. This tag remained

there until the carcass was ready for
shipment.

Observers recorded the potential in-
juries. These observers stationed them-
selves at points best suited for keeping
the cattle under close scrutiny during
each handling phase. They used portable
tape recorders since this allowed for
instantaneous recording of observations.
The tapes were subsequently transcribed
on individual cards for each animal (ﬁg-
ure 1).

After slaughter, the observers re-
corded all bruise injuries by individual
animal on the basis of carcass location.
After each trim-out of tissue was

_ weighed, the observers noted various

body marks likely to have been caused
by impact. They rechecked the carcasses

 

These sides of beef illustrate what happens
when cattle sustain severe bumps during han'

dling. NOt only is the trimout lost but the
Whole side must be reduced inIJrice before It

can be sold.

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

i l
TVLOL
8d 8d
1 l
33H10
8d 8d
1 l
H301n0HS
8d 8d
1 i 913
9d 8d
1 l
le
8d 8d
3901 BLVH 'ON 3301 HLVU 'ON
lHBIH lﬂ31
SLTHSHH HSIHHB $301 $
SXHVNHH
30V39
3dAl
NOIL’SOd
lNVTd
'ON GV3H 3LVG 'ON 101

 

 

 

 

-— .4
<
<5 D—
2 o
- l—
:3
O: a.
< Z
>- :3
m:
c: a)
Z
- <5
O 2
<1: _
O C:
—l a:
z. '<
D >-
04
<5
2: <5
—- z:
c: ._
'< x:
C) a:
—J -<
>_

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




I
.1

igw- M“ ‘r‘ﬂga‘m’e _._

4:. r. mush

 

.x 4.;.:..; ' . -J.- '. ‘ :: :z~ _..,_ = r_ _-A: z u :\;': < 0 >" 3. -. , ~..,--;-;:. 0,

l 1
r;
5%
l
I!
I
«I
q
:3:
l
t
i:
:2
t
i

 

- "haiku...

after 24 hours in the packinghouse
cooler. At this time, they obtained car-

cass weight and the packer grade which V

is more detailed than the standard USDA
terminology.

In addition, the packer estimated car-
cass devaluation, if any, for recording
at this time. This devaluation was ap-
plied to those sides sufficiently damaged
by bruising as to make it necessary for
the entire side of beef to be reduced in
price in order to market it. Thus, such
sides represented a "double loss"—triﬂm
loss (the value of bruised tissue trimmed-
out) and devaluation loss (a reduction in
value of the whole side due to bruise

damage). The devaluation loss was usu-
ally stated in fractions of a cent per
pound, ranging from one-half cent up to
3—1/2 cents. All information obtained-
during the two post-slaughter checks went
on the individual animal's record cards.

The record of potential bruise-causing
incidents obtained during the observation
periods included all that happened to the
animal which might have resulted in car-
cass injury. The post-slaughter records
gave a complete picture of bruise injury
and loss. By correlating the two rec-
ords, we determined the relationship of
potential bruise-causing incidents to ac-
tual carcass and monetary loss.

Bruise Losses

The Farmer Cooperative Service sur-
vey consisted of a series of 13 tests
covering 720 cattle. The test described
in the appendix, page 78, was one. The
test animals were slaughtered at five
different packing plants operated by four
different companies. In fiveof the tests,
the animals were delivered directly to
the packer at his own plant, while in the
remaining tests the animals were un-
loaded at a public stockyard and subse-
quently delivered to the packer. (This
is not to imply that the test animals re—

. ceived at the public stockyards went

through the same "yarding" as animals
normally offered for sale at a public
market would go through).

In all instances, a for-hire trucker
moved the animals, except for two tests
where the feed lot operator drove the
trucks. In each test the animals were
transported from ranch or feedlot to the
packer on one day, slaughtered the next,
and the cooler check made the third day.

The data obtained during the Various
tests were tabulated and analyzed on

several different bases. These included:
(1) carcass location; (2) whether steer
or heifer; (3) by individual test; (4) by
grade—choice, good or standard (steers
and heifers tabulated separately, as well
as combined into an "all cattle" classifi—
cation); and (5) by handling phase on the
basis of carcass location. For the sake
of uniformity, as well as easy compari—
son, all results were tabulated on the
basis of theoretical IOO-head lots.

Location on Carcass

Table 1provides a summary on a 100-
head-lot basis of general bruise informa-
tion obtained in all 13 of the tests. It
shows the number of trim bruises, the
number of fire bruises (inflamed or red—
dened spots on the fatty surfaces of the
carcass which are not trimmed), the
Pounds of trim tissue and the value of that
trim, the devaluation loss, and the totalﬁ-
nancial loss on the basis of the carcass
locations used in the reporting forms-
These locations were the hip, rib, shoul—
der, and the general category ”other-"

 

 




Table 1.——-«Bruise loss per 100 head by carcass location

 

 

 

 

 

 

Number Number Pounds Financial Devalwation Total
Carcass location "trim" "fire" trim trim iégs financial
bruises bruises tissue loss loss
Hip 25 26 16.9 $11.54 $21.32 $32.86
Rib 10 7 4.8 2.37 2.33 4.70
Shoulder 29 39 13.2 5.27 4.29 9.56
1
"Other" 16 21 7.0 3.18 10.10 13.28
Whole carcass 80 93 41.9 22.36 38.04 60.40

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1Includes sides devalued because of multiple minor bruises over the carcass, "fiery" appearance,

and general carcass condition due to bruising.

Without regard to actual carcass loca-
tion, overall bruise loss amounted to
$60.40 per 100 head. This figure repre-
sents $22.36 trim loss and. $38.04 deval-
uation loss. The trim loss was due to
41.9 pounds of trim tissue taken from 80
carcass bruises. There were 93 fire
bruises.

Although $60.40 per hundred head
may seem a small figure, it nonetheless
represents a significant loss to whatever
segment of the industry has to bear it.
If we assumed that was an average loss
and projected it for total annual slaughter
in the United States, the loss due to car-
cass bruise injury in 1957 would be in
the neighborhood of $12 million—a rather
substantial figure.

Without giving any consideration to
financial loss, the hip and shoulder areas
of the cattle appeared the most frequently
abused or injured portions. Between
them, they accounted for about 68 per-
cent of the total number of trim bruises,
with the shoulder receiving a slightly
larger number of such bruises than did
the hip. Likewise, these two carcass
locations accounted for the majority of
fire bruises—about 70 percent. With

this type bruise, however, the ratio of
shoulder fire bruises to hip fire bruises
was 3 to 2.

The rib area sustained only about 12
percent of the trim bruises and '7-1/2
percent of the fire bruises.

Weight of tissue removed from the
trim bruises was likewise largely con-
centrated in the hip and shoulder areas-
about 72 percent. But while the shoulder
area suffered the largest number of trim
bruises, the heaviest actual him on a
weight basis was in the hip area. Look-
ing at the results from an economic stand-
point, the significance of hip injuries
becomes quite apparent. Bruise injury
sustained in this area accounted for 52
percent of the financial value of all trim
loss and 56 percent of the total devalua—
tion loss. This is not surprising, how-
ever, since the loin or hip area embraces
the highest priced cuts of dressed beef.

For example, during the time that
these tests were being conducted, choice
loins (from hips) were selling for 60 to
68 cents a pound, whereas shoulder cuts
were moving at about 38 to 40 cents a
pound.

The high devaluation loss suffered due
to damaged hips or loin can be explained
on much the same basis. The devalua-
tion was assessed against the side of
beef in most instances because the most
desirable section of the side had been

 

 




1
a
2’
g
a
i
1,
«l
3:

i

-MQ):

«2.3:» ' ‘Y crakunrtss I. 5

 

 

 

 

 

i» - n" - ‘ Adv—.4n-naln‘ALM-Lgc4'3a - :3, ‘.».:x‘;5;e;iaeau~_¢:_ - a“; A.

 

 

 

damaged. The trade would not accept
the side at a price which would repre-
sent carcass weight times carcass price.

Only a relatively small number of
sides were devalued for any reason other
than a hip or loin injury.

In some instances, trimming multiple
bruises gave the side an overall ragged
appearance, rendering it a little less
desirable. A small discount had to be
made to move it. Of the total number of
devalued sides, about 17 percent were
discounted because of multiple bruising,
and the like.

In discussing these figures with the
cooperating packers in the survey, we
discovered two things: (1) the trim loss
was somewhat higher than had been
suspected—actually very few packers
indicated that any effort was made to
keep track of such loss; and (2) the per-
cent of total loss' from hip or loin injury
was somewhat lower than had be en thought

to be the case. Generally speaking,
packers .. indicated that hip injuries or
loin bruises probably represented two-
thirds to three-fourths of total bruise
loss. Figures obtained during these
tests indicated that such injuries ac-
counted for somewhat less than 55 per-
cent of total loss.

Type of Cattle

Data obtained during the various tests
were tabulated "by steer or heifer to see
if there was any significant difference in
bruise loss as between animal type (table
2). From a financial standpoint, the total
bruise loss on steers was approximately
three times as great as that on heifers.
The trim loss on steers was roughly
double that of heifers. From the stand-
point of devaluation loss, in some cases
overfour times as muchfinancial loss oc-
curred on the steers as did on the heifers.

Insofar as actual number of trim
bruises was concerned, the two types of

 

Table 2.—-—Bruise loss per 100 head by type of cattle and carcass location

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Type of cattle NUmber Number Pounds Financial Devalu t'on Total
and "trim" "fire" trim trim 1 a 1 financial

carcass location bruises bruises tissue loss 08$ 1085
Hip

Steers 29 25 21-0 $14.31 $28.13 $42.44

Heifers 19 29 10.1 6.94 10,01 16.95
Rib

Steers 13 7 6.6 3.22 3.73 6.95

Heifers 5 8 1.8 .97 0 .97
Shoulder

Steers 29 42 15.1 5.93 6 87 12.80

Heifers 29 34 10.0 4,18 '0 4.18
"Ckher"

Steers 16 21 8.1 3.62 14 741 18.36

Heifers 15 21 5.3 2.47 2'401 4,87.
Whole carcass

Stairs 87 95 50. 8 27.08 53.47 80-55

e1 ers 68 92 27.2 14.56 12 41 26.97
#________.2

 

 

 

 

1Includes sides devalued because of multiple bruises ov

carcass condition due to bruising.

er the carcass, "fiery" appearance, and general

 




 

 

cattle did not differ too greatly—87 trim
bruises on steers and 68 on heifers, or
about 25 percent more for steers. But
the intensity of bruise on steers was
much greater, for the trim weight for
steers was about 87 percent greater than
for heifers. This, of course, accounted
for the higher value of trim loss.

’Each type suffered approximately the
same number of fire bruises. If the two
types of cattle were compared from the
standpoint of bruises on each carcass
location, the same general pattern was
observed.

One principal exception should be
noted—considerably more sides of the
carcass of steers were devalued than
for heifers. This shows up in table 2
under the devaluation loss column for
the carcass category "Other." The .de—
valuation loss on steers was about seven
times as great as that on heifers. This
difference was accounted for primarily
by the sides that "were devalued for the
multiple bruise injury and general car-
cass appearance. This usually means
that the entire carcass was more or
less ”firey.”

Why was the loss on steers greater
than on heifers? At least a partial
answer may be obtained from observa-
tions made of cattle handling during the
survey.

In the first place, steers generally
were larger—they not only weighed more
but they were bigger framed. When the
steer moved through narrow facilities,
the distances between its sides and the
sides of the facility (alleyway and. so
forth) were much less than for the smaller
heifers. Therefore, the likelihood of
impact and subsequent bruise injury was
greater. This added weight and size
also made steers somewhat more awk-
ward and clumsy during the various
handling procedures.

The general reaction of the two types
of animals to handling had some bearing
on the higher steer bruise loss. Heifers
were somewhat more skittish, partic-
ularly in the first handling phase of sort-
ing and loading. Steers reached higher
emotional excitement, evidenced by fear
or at least by actions which indicated
fear. Frequently they reacted violently

,to particular handling situations and

threw themselves into obstacles. Of
course, this meant that impact was
harder.

As stated before, the laboratory re-
search indicated that a high emotional
state tended to lower bruise resistance.
It may be that the pronounced difference
in the bruise loss on the two types of
animals, as indicated by this survey,
was somewhat greater than it actually
appeared. One of the test lots, consist-
ing wholly of steers, turned out to be
what is termed in the trade as a badly
bruised lot. This particular lot showed
an overall bruise loss of about $2.77 a
head—just a little less than 3-1/2 times
the average for all test lots of steers.

However, this badly bruised lot rep-
resented only 17 percent of the total
number of steers included in the survey.
This should mitigate the influence of
this lot on bruise loss. While this lot
was not typical, neither was it unusual,
for such lots occur far too often. Pack-
inghouse representatives indicated that
while we ended up with one such lot out
of 13, the average range of such lots in
packinghouses was from 1 in 10 to 1 in 50.

In analyzing data on this test lot, we
found the vast majority of the bruise
injury occurred in the later handling
phases. Therefore, handling and facili-
ties during marketing and processing
were largely responsible for the bruise
injury. The condition that caused the loss
was one which might well occur some-
what frequently at the particular plant.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

Individual Test Lots

Discussions of bruise loss up to this
point have dealt with a consolidation of
results obtained in all 13 tests. There
is much to be gained, however, in con—
sidering the results obtained in the indi-
vidual tests, for they covered a wide
range in economic loss. In the test used
for illustrative purposes in the appendix,
page 32 , the bruise loss on that lot of
animals was only $6.2 1 per hundred head.
In the section of the report immediately
preceding this one, we called attention
to a test lot where the total loss was
$276.87 per hundred head. A look at the
results of the individual tests and a dis-
cussion of some of the factors involved
in these tests will explain some of this
wide range in loss. At the same time,
they will indicate the importance of vari-
ous factors in relation to these losses.

The results of the individual tests
appear in table 3. Again, the figures
have been converted to the lOO—head
basis. The total loss column of this
table confirms the dramatic difference
between the loss on the least damaged
lot and that suffered by the one badly
bruised lot. Three lots were also above
the average of $60 per hundred head,
while 10 lots fell below that average.

Nearly half the lots suffered losses in
the $25 to $50 range.

One important factor in the makeup
of the total lossfigure becomes apparent
with a look at the trim loss figure. The
badly bruised lot had a total loss ap-
proximately 46 times as great as the
least damaged lot. Yet if we excluded
this badly damaged lot from the trim
loss, the highest loss due to trim-out
would be only about five times that of
the lowest. Evenif we included the badly
damaged lot in the trim loss, the differ—
ence would be about 13 to 1 rather than
46 to 1. Thus the devaluation loss, in
reflecting the prevalence of severely
damaged sides in a test, accounted for
the great variance in the total lossfigure.

A total of five different packing plants
were involved in these tests. In some
instances several tests were conducted
at a single plant. The results obtained
where more than one test at a plant was
conducted were fairly compatible. Total
loss figures applicable to the various
tests at that plant were either high, low,
or somewhere in the middle range. The
badly bruised lot was the only one
slaughtered at this particular plant,
whereas, the low lot—the lot on which
the total loss was only $6.21—was one

Table 3.——Bruise loss per 100 head by test lots

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

’—-———-———-1
Number Number Pound ' '
Test number "trim" "fire" trims Fliafiial Devaluation fi::;::3]
bruises bruises tissue loss loss loss
Test 1 28 13 21.4 $15.04 3 3O 96 $ 46.00
Test 2 36 71 22.0 14.06 9.00 23 06
Test 3 40 133 17.3 10.13 20'88 31 01
Test 4 44 116 2 .4 15.03 14 90 29 93
Test 5 40 87 38.7 22.89 51 73 74.62
Test 6 46 100 28.4 15.14 '0 15 14
Test 7 53 168 17.9 10.71 15 5 26 56
Test 8 54 96 14.4 6.21 '8 6.21
Test 9 81 103 35.6 16.58 0 16 58
Test 10 176 115 58.5 30.44 0 08.36
Test 11 144 89 38.7 18 44 77°92 13024
Test 12 100 60 37.1 18.04 11.80 41.42
Test 13 177 64 157.5 82.31 1%: :2 276 87
N . O

H
O

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

of two lots slaughtered at another given
plant. The loss on the second lot was
also quite low.

All of this indicates that packinghouse
facilities and handling at the packinghouse
had a significant inﬂuence on bruise loss.
The record of potential bruise-causing
incidents occurring in the various tests
and the correlation of those incidents to
the bruise record substantiates this.
Most of the identified bruises occurred
during the pre-slaughter and post—
slaughter phases at the packing plant.

Plants with the highest total loss had
the most awkward and complex facilities
and handling, in general, was rough.
Likewise, the plant where the lowest
losses occurred—referred to in the ap—
pendix, page 32, was the plant with the
simplest, most practical and smoothest
operating facilities, and the handling was
uniformly good.

During the other handling phases such
as loading, unloading and yarding, some
test lots received higher percentages of
bruise loss than did others, but the dif-
ference was not too great.

While it seems fair to give consider—
able weight to the influence of packing—
house facilities and handling to total
bruise loss, other factors beyond the
control of the slaughterer may very well
have been responsible. Here we are
thinking in the terms of variations in
grade, variations in resistance to bruise
injury, and other such factors.

The principal reason for discussing
the individual tests is to stress the many
factors involved in bruise loss. An aver-
age figure is only a general indication of
such loss and may have little or no ap-
plication to the situation prevailing at a
given facility. This problem will be dis—
cussed in greater detail in alater section

11

of this report dealing with general im-
plications of the survey.

Carcass Grade

People in the livestock industry have
generally held that bruise injury and the
consequent financial loss were closely
related to the grade of the animal. They
felt that cattle in the prime or top choice
grades usually had considerably less
carcass bruise damage and subsequent
loss than those grading lower—standard,
commercial or utility.

They reasoned that the higher graded
animal had the advantage of a protective
layer of fat which served as a cushion
when impact occurred. This, in turn,
meant that light impact would probably
dolittle more than rupture blood vessels
in the fatty tissue and result in a fire
bruise. In the lower graded animals with
no fat covering impact would result in a
damage to the muscle tissue. This was
the case in the laboratory research re—
ferred to earlier.

For this reason, we included test lots
of animals representing the various
grades. We experienced some difficulty
in setting up a sample on this basis since
packers usually purchased the lower
grade animals on the open market rather
than direct and, as previously noted, it
was necessary that directs be used in
this survey. Although the majority of
animals in these various tests fell in
the choice or top good grade, a sufficient
number of other cattle were included so
that the tests actually covered animals
grading from low prime to commercial.

Although actual packer grades were
obtained on all carcasses of test animals
(that is, the various USDA grades were
broken into top, medium and low), con—
sideration of bruise loss as related. to

 




 

 

 

 

 

‘ carcass grade was confined to the broad
USDA terminology in the following anal-
ysis. Actually only three of these broader
grades were used: choice, good and
standard. Since most of the animals
fell in these three grades, we decided
they were sufficient to provide a repre-
sentative sample.

The survey data for bruise loss on
the basis of carcass grade is presented
in table 4. A quick glance at the total
loss column confirms the belief of the
livestock industry that there is a special
relationship between carcass grade and
bruise loss, for the financial loss is
progressively higher as grade decreases.

If the total trim weight was the same
in all grades, the resulting financial loss
~ would be higher for choice cattle than
' for standard cattle because choice cat-
tle might be bringing 40 to 45 cents a
pound, whereas standard cattle might be
commanding only 34 or 35 cents. But
table 4 shows that at even considerably
lower prices for the lower grade, the
overall loss figures are much higher
than for the best grade—choice. This,
of course, indicates that the bruise dam-
age itself-trim loss and devaluation
loss—was much higher for the plainer
and lower grades.

Perhaps a better way to consider the
likelihood of carcass bruise injury is to
ignore the financialfactor altogether and
look at the various grades on the basis
of total number of trim bruises, total

number of fire bruises, and the trim
weight. If this is done, virtually the
same picture is obtained. The total
number of bruises requiring trim was
progressively higher as the carcass
grade fell. Choice cattle had only about
two-fifths as many trim bruises as did
standard cattle. While the variation in-
sofar as fire bruises was concerned was
not so great, the same pattern prevailed.

This is also true if weight of trim is
considered except that there was little
difference in the trim weight between
good and standard grade carcasses, but
almost twice as much trim as between
good and choice. One reason for the
much higher trim weight in the lower or
plainer grades of cattle has already been
mentioned. These plainer cattle had less
protective fat covering and, hence, bruise
injury was more apt to be in the muscle
tissue which requires trim. In fancy
cattle, choice or prime, the impact which
caused the trim bruise in the plainer
grades might easily have produced only
a fire bruise in these higher grades.

Still another way of comparing the
liability of bruise injury on a carcass
grade basis has been introduced in table 4
by a column headed ”Number of head
bruise free." This column shows that
in a given lot of 100 head of cattle a cer-
tain number could be reasonably eXPeCted
to show up in the packinghouse cooler
without trim or fire bruises.

When we look at the figures in this
column, virtually the same picture IS

 

 

Tabel 4.——Bruise loss per 100 head by carcass grade

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Number Number Pounds Financial Total Number head
Grade "trim" "fire" trim trim Devaluation fin n ' 1 1th ‘no bruise
bruises bruises tissue loss loss 1510:5181 vlvoss or damage
\* __’________
Choice 56 85 26.6 $14.57 $14.14 $28 71 36
' Good 96 102 58.8 31.04 55.50 86 54 26
Standard 141 110 54.1 28.60 72.46 101 O6 15
, 1 -\j . j
12

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

presented as when the figures in the total
loss column and the various bruise col-
umns were considered. Here consider-
ably larger number of choice grade than
plainer grade cattle came through bruise
free. More than twice as many choice
as standard cattle and a little more than
a third more choice than good came
through bruise free. All in all, there
seems ample evidence that bruise inci-
dence and bruise loss have a positive
relationship with the grade of the cattle.

Perhaps the best lesson that can be
learned from a study of the information
in table 4 is this. Even though plainer
grades of cattle cost less and sold for
less, the increase in bruise damage was
such that the financial loss was consid-
erably out of proportion to the invest-
ment involved when compared with fan-
cier grades. Those in a position to be
affected by this loss should give con—
siderably more attention to safe, sane
handling of lower or plainer grades of
animals.

Location in Truck

During the loading of animals into the
motortruck we made a record of which
end of the truck the animals finally were
transported in—whether they rode in
front of the divider or behind it. We
wanted this informationbecause animals
that moved past the divider and rode in
the forward end of the truck had to nego-
tiate a narrow entrance way. Thus they
were more likely to suffer some bruise
damage from impact of some part of the
body with the sides of this narrow opening.

Most of the test lots were moved in
trucks with center dividers of various
types. Some were permanent witha nar-
row gate at one side. Others were

13

movable and could be swung closed after
the animals were herded into the forward
end of the truck. In this latter case, the in—‘ .-
jury likely to be sustained was lessened
because only those animals apt to be
struck by the divider when it was closed
would be affected. With the permanent
type divider, each animal entering into
the forward portion of the vehicle was
exposed to likely bruise damage.

The overall bruise loss was some-

what higher onthose animals transported V a '
' in the rear of the truck rather than those _ ,

in the front. This would indicate that
this extra exposure to potential bruise
injury insofar as the divider is concerned
was not a factor.

However, a better measure of the
influence of this particular type of hazard
can be gained by a closer inspection of
the unidentified bruise record. The per-
centage of unidentified trim bruises was
about the same for each of the two groups,
but in the case of fire bruises, animals
moving in the front section of the truck
sustained approximately 10 percent more
unidentified fire bruises than those mov-
ing in the rear.

 

This may be considered as some evi-
dence of the potential bruise-causing
effect of the divider. No conclusive eVi-_-
dence was obtained, however, in this test
to indicate that the hazard factor of this
particular facility was such as to single
it out for particular criticism or to re-
gard it as a major factor in bruise injury
and loss. Even if the divider resulted
in some bruise injury, its use could well
prevent more serious injury from hap-
pening. If the divider were not there,
animals might crowd into one end of the
vehicle which could well result in one
or more of the animals going down.
This, of course, might produce extensive
damage.

 




 

 

 

 

 

Handling Phase

Relating bruise injury to the various
handling phases was the most important
single part of the survey. This is true
because the "how and why” of bruise
injury could best be established by this
technique. If there is to be any substan-
tial reduction in bruise loss, this how
and why must be established in order to
devise ways and means to correct loss—
causing situations.

As previously pointed out, the entire
time that the cattle were in the market-
ing and processing steps was divided into
four major handling phases—loading, un-
loading, yarding and slaughter. The
exact point at which one phase began and
ended is illustrated in the detailed test
described in the appendix, page 45.

We kept the record of potential bruise-
causing incidents occurring to each in-
dividual animal by handling phase and
carmss location. The record of actual
bruise damage, of course, was by car—
cass location alone. The relationship
between the two was established by com—
paring the actual carcass damage record
with the potential injury record. If the
carcass injury was at the same point on
the animal where a potential bruise-
causing incident occurred during a given
handling phase, we assumed that the in—
cident bore a relationship to the damage.

Likewise, in those instances where
there was no carcass damage and no rec-
ord of potential bruise-causing incident,
what might be termed "compatibility"
between handling conditions and prac-
tices and carcass condition was also
established.

In this survey we obtained a degree
of compatibility of about 70 percent. This
meant that the potential bruise-causing
inc-went record was in accord with the

14

actual carcass damage record almost
three-fourths of the time. In those
cases, there was no record of alikely
injury—causing incident and no record of
carcass damage, or else there was car-
cass damage which could be related to a
potential bruise-causing incident. '

The record of all tests also showed
that about 50 percent of all bruises re-
quiring trim were positively identified.
These identified bruises accounted for
56percent of the trim weight and 58 per-
cent of the trim value. In addition, 70
percent of the devalued sides were iden-
tified, and these represented 72 percent
of the total devaluation loss. Overall,
approximately two-thirds of total finan~
cial loss due to carcass injury (bruises)
was identified. The highest degree of
identification was in the case of hip in-
juries (loin bruises) and the lowest ap-
plied to rib injuries.

In arriving at the degree of com-
patibility, we decided any questionable
instances on a conservative basis and
resolved them in the favor of non—
compatibility. In addition, in a few
instances during the survey conditions
arose that resulted in inability to record
potential bruise-causing incidents that
were observed. This, of course, caused
some deficiency in this segment of the
record, and probably resulted in a lower
degree of identification and compatibility
than would have been the case if this
record had been complete.

Itwas never anticipated that 100 per “
cent accuracy could be obtained in these
tests since the conditions under which
they were conducted were far short of
laboratory controlled conditions. The
sacrifice of accuracy is believedjustified
in view of the significant contribution
made by conducting the tests under con-
ditions ordinarily prevailing in the han—
dling of livestock.

 

 

 




 

 

 

Table 5 shows results obtained on the
basis of relationship of bruise damage
to various handling phases. Again, this
is on the basis of theoretical 100 head
lots. Totals in table 5 for each of the
various carcasslocations, as well as the
total for the entire animal differ, some-
what from similar figures appearing in
table 1. Circumstances during some of
the tests were such that although accu-
rate records of actual carcass injury
could be obtained, the record of potential
bruise-cauSing incidents in the various

 

handling ph as e s was incomplete or
blurred.5 Therefore, these particular
tests were omitted in compiling the data
in table 5.

Essentially, where any question of
reliability of the record of potential
bruise-causing incidents existed, these
tests were thrown out of the tabulation
contained in table 5 in order to insure
fairness to the cooperating parties and
to maintain the highest degree of reli-
ability possible. Actually, only two tests

 

 

Table 5. Bruise loss per 100 head by carcass IOCation and handling phase
Carcass location Number Number Pounds ! Financial . Total
and "trim" "fire" L trim trim Devaluation financial
handling phase bruises bruises tissue loss loss loss
Hip
Loading 4 4 3.1 $2.10 $2.24 $4.34
Unloading 2 1 2.5 1.77 5.98 7.75
Yarding (1) 1 .2 .11 .32 .43
Slaughter 11 12 7.1 4.77 8.04 12.81
Rib
Loading 1 (2) .2 .12 0 .12
Unloading 1 (2) .2 .11 0 ..11
Yarding 0 0 .0 O 0 0
Slaughter 1 3 .6 .36 1.29 1.65
Shoulder
Loading 2 2 1.1 .44 1.02 1.46
Unloading 1 1 .5 .23 0 .23
Yarding (2) (5) .1 .06 0 .06
Slaughter 11 8 5.6 2.25 2 08 4.33
"Other"
Loading (3) (3) .1 .02 0 .02
Unloading (9) 0 .1 .06 0 .06
Yarding (9) 1 .5 .28 0 .28
Slaughter 7 10 3.7 1.66 8.46 10.12
Total carcass
Loading 7 7 4.5 2.68 3.26 5.94
Unloading 5 2 3.3 2.17 5.98 8.15
Yarding 1 2 .8 .45 .32 .77
Slaughter : 30 33 17.0 9.04 19.87 28.91

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

:One in 1,000 head average.
;0ne in 250 head average.
“One in 500 head average.

 

5The principal cause fer incomplete or blurred records, insofar as potential bruiSe—causing incidents
are concerned, was due to the fhdjinwa of portable tape recorders to function properly during certain

of the handling phases.

15

 




 

 

 

 

 

were deleted, but one of these test lots

happened to have a relatively high bruise

loss. This loss is reflected in the higher

loss figures shown in table 1, as com—
pared to the figures in table 5.

'Gross total figures in table 5 show
that most of the identified bruises were
related to-the slaughter phase. In other
words, this phase accounted for the larg—
est-number of trim bruises, the largest
‘number‘of fire bruises, the most pounds

oftrim tissue, the highest trim loss, the
i I largest devaluation loss, and the greatest
total 1088.

However, we should empha-
{size these are gross figures and not
precise measures.

Loading appeared the second most
costly phase of all of these categories,
except for devaluation loss and total
loss, Where the unloading phase ranked
' second.

It was somewhat surprising to find
that the bruise loss associated with han—
' dling during yarding was extremely low.

"However, subsequent checks referred to
earlier in the report indicated that this
figure was not very much out of line.

If we look at these overall figures

i ' from another viewpoint, the majority of

identified bruise loss occurred after the
cattle Were in the hands of the final buyer.
The 105s at this point was approximately
double the loss during the time the ani-
mals werein the hands of transporters
and marketers.

, But it is well to- examine the data in
, table 5 by Carcass location of bruise in-
jury because the proportionate "share of
' responsibility for damage" is somewhat
different thanfor total figures. Further,
the reason for the high losses in the
slaughter phase can be better pinpo inted—
. at least so far as carcass location is
concerned. ~

16

While the slaughter phase accounted
for approximately twice as much of the
identified bruise loss on a total basis as
did the other handling phases, losses
from hip injuries were about equally
divided between the slaughter phase and
all other phases.

On the other hand, losses in the car-
cass category "Other" were just under
300 times as great for the slaughter
phase as for other handling phases. The
probable reason for the almost equal
division of losses in the hip loss category
was that during all of the various han—
dling phases hips were particularly vul-
nerable to bruise-causing incidents. But
it was only during the slaughter phase
that the backs of cattle were particularly
susceptible to bruise injury. The ma-
jority of trim bruises, and consequently
trim weight and trim loss contained in
the "Other" category, were in the form
of back bruises.

During the slaughter period the ani-
mals were much, more closely confined.
As they moved along in the slaughter
process, handling procedures often re-
sulted in bruising their backs. For ex- ..
ample, normally catwalks traversed the ‘
entire distance from holding pens adja-
cent to the kill area to the knocking box,
and the driver was, therefore, stationed
above the animals. In using persuaders

he naturally struck the animal across
the back.

In addition, the majority of gates and
Partitions along this route were of the
descending type and, frequently, struck
the animal across the back when being
closed. Still other back bruises which
might be related to this slaughter phase
were caused by animals riding acrOSS
the back of one another as they proceeded
single file through the narrow passage“

WaYs characteristic of this handling
phase.

 

 




 

 

 

While the figures contained in table 5
do not include unidentified bruise injury,
the identified bruise pattern may well
apply to a rather substantial portion of
those bruises not identified. Some of
this unidentified bruise loss may also
have occurred immediately before the
time the animals came under observa—
tion. This would be particularly true if
a great deal of sorting took place during
the time the animals were being assem-
bled for shipment. Frequently this sort-
ing was done by the "gate method,"which
can easily result in carcass injury when
the sorting is hurried and the gate care-
lessly used.

At least some part of the unidentified
bruise loss occurred during the time the
animals were in the vehicle being trans-
ported from ranch or feed lot to destina-
tion. Naturally, animals did not stand
stock still all of the time. During the
journey some of them struck one another
or the sides of the vehicle with sufficient
force to result in some sort of carcass
damage.

Observations made during the survey
indicated about one—fourth to one-third
of the unidentified bruise loss should be
attributed to sorting before loading or
to conditions and happenings in transit.
This would make these two phases re—
sponsible for from 12 to 16 percent of
total loss.

Relationship of carcass damage to
various handling phases was not the same
in each one of the tests. While a larger
number of actual bruises requiring trim
and fire bruises were always associated
with the slaughter phase in each test,
the severity of these bruises, as repre—
sented by trim weight, trim value, and
devaluation loss, differed rather widely.

17

For example, in one test 52 percent of
the identified loss occurred during the
loading phase, whereas in another test
81 percent of the identified bruise loss
occurred during the slaughter phase. In
all of the various tests, however, losses
attributed to the yarding phase were low.

Of course, such things as cattle grade
had a bearing on the different results
obtained in the various tests insofar as
bruise loss was 'concerned, but these
other factors had little or no relationship
to the incidence of loss in various han-
dling phases. However, these variations
pointed strongly to the influence of par—
ticular facilities and to handling which
occurred during the various phases in
the different tests.

In other words, rough handling and ‘
complicated or poorly engineered facili-
ties often caused more bruise injury and.
bruise loss. This was borne out in the
various tests conducted as a part'of this
survey. Where facilities were Complex,
as in slaughter plants, a high degree of
relationship between bruise loss and that
handling phase was established. Like-
wise, where rough handling occurred '
during loading or unloading, the bruise
loss went up.

In evaluating the results in table 5, it
becomes important, therefore, to look
upon the figures as gross indicators of
conditions existing on an overall basis."
in the survey and not as precise meas-
urements of what degree of respon-

sibility could reasonably be assigned to ' ' I

any given handling phase on a general
basis.
sufficient number of tests and a suf-

ficient number of different facilities in- ~ '

all phases to justify the results as gross
indicators. .

However, the survey involved a .

 




 

 

 

Causes of Bruise Loss

The preceding section of this report
presented data on the extent of bruise
loss and damage which occurred during
the various tests of the overall survey.
These data were correlated on the basis
of carcass location, type of animal, in-
dividual tests, carcass grade, location
in truck and handling phase. Although
some reference has been made to causes
or factors which might affect the indi-
cated bruise loss, no real discussion of
these matters was presented. Actually,
the references previously made were
given primarily to clarify or further
explain the bruise loss data.

It became apparent during various
tests that certain handling conditions
and practices did, in fact, have an ex—
tremely close relationship with carcass
injury. The major purpose of this re-
search project was to relate these to
carcass injury. So throughout the entire
survey every effort was made to accu-
mulate information which would estab—
lish this relationship.

Before turning to a detailed discus—
sion of the causes of bruise losses, one
important point should be made. All the
causes of carcass injury and subsequent
bruise loss could, and did, occur during
all phases of handling. Some were of a
greater importance during one particular
handling phase than during another. Nev»-
ertheless, the following broad categories
of causes of bruise loss at all phases
were found: (1) animal characteristics;
(2) facilities; (3) handling techniques; (4)
handler's actions and attitudes; and (5)
miscellaneous factors (weather condi—
tions, length of haul, and time in stress
conditions).

Animal Characteristics

Bruise loss data in the previous sec-
tion of this report indicated the influence

18

of type and grade of cattle on subsequent
bruise loss. Animals whose carcasses
graded out lower were more susceptible
to bruise injury. Likewise, steers ap-
peared more susceptible than heifers.
Therefore, class and grade must be con-
sidered as affecting bruise loss, but
within a given class and grade, other
animal characteristics or animal condi-
tions had positive bearing on the injury
sustained.

We have already referred to the var-
iation in bruise resistance that exists in
cattle. This bruise resistance was in-
fluenced by previous bruise injury and
by introducing certain chemical com-
pounds into the system. Certainly, the
inherent bruise resistance of a given
animal, regardless of the reasonfor this
resistance, must be considered as a
factor affecting bruise loss in these par-
ticular cattle.

Research showed that the emotional
state of the animal was also closely as—
sociated with bruise susceptibility. The
possibility of bruise loss is greatly in-
creased with highly excited animals for
they are not easily controlled. They be—
come somewhat frantic, which usually
results in a considerably higher number
of impacts.

Couple this with the established fact
that this emotional state also lowers
bruise resistance and it is easy to see
Why in such situations these animals
suffer higher bruise injury. This was
borne out in certain of these tests. On
two occasions, animals became unusu-
ally excited and fractious during the
loading operation. In each case, there
was an increase both in the number of
potential bruise-causing incidents in this
particular handling phase and in the
number of trim and fire bruises on the

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

carcass which could be traced to this
loading phase.

Likewise, the high incidence of bruise
damage associated with the slaughter
phase could well be related to the emo—
tional state of the animal since at this
point operating conditions frequently re—
sulted in exciting the cattle.

Perhaps one of the most positive
pieces of evidence obtained on the rela-
tionship of emotional state to bruise in-
jury occurred in one test. The animals
were left alone during the slaughter
phase and more or less moved themselves
through the narrow passageways and into
the knocking box. No one was there to
drive them, no persuaders were used.
In fact, the animals' natural curiosity
and "follow the leader" instinct brought
about this quiet movement during the
slaughter.

When the bruise results of the tests
were accumulated, we found that this
particular group of the test lot suffered
little or no injury which could be con-
nected in any way with the slaughter
phase.

The general health of the animal may
also have some bearing on the likelihood
of its suffering bruise injury. Weak ani-
mals, crippled animals or those with
lowered resistance are highly vulnerable
to such injury. These animals frequently
went down during transit and even during
the slaughter operation. They were, of
course, then trampled on and required
some rather vigorous action on the part
of handlers to get them up and move them
along.

At least two animals in the tests could
be characterized as not being in good
health. Both of these animals fell dur-
ing the various movements of the han-
dling and both animals sustained a high

19

degree of carcass damage. In fact, of
the four sides involved, three had to be
subsequently devalued because of carcass
injury.

In addition, a higher degree of bruise
loss on other animals in the lot occurred
than normally would be expected. Some
of this could well be attributed to the fact
that when the weak animal went down in
the vehicle, the other animals in the load
became confused. Considerable pitching
and tossing caused impacts of such a
degree that bruise injury was likely. The
presence of a weak or crippled animal
in any lot increased the likelihood of
bruise injury to the entire lot, as well
as to the animal itself.

Of course, anyone who found it neces-
sary to ship a crippled animal or one not
physically strong had it within his power
to isolate this animal from the rest of
the lot, both as a protection for the dis-
tressed animal itself and for the rest of
the animals in the load. Certainly, most
packers recognized this, for cripples or
weak animals were usually slaughtered
separately and not subjected to the usual
conditions prevailing on the normal
slaughter line.

While some of the animal character-
istics mentioned above lay beyond the
control of human beings, some of these
characteristics could be controlled, at
least to some extent, by handlers. This
was particularly true insofar as the
emotional state of the animal was con-
cerned. The handler was in position to
conduct his work in a manner which could
either raise or lower the emotional pitch.
If he realized that new and somewhat
strange surroundings confused and dis—
turbed the animal and, at the least, cre-
ated a sense of uneasiness, he would
know that his own techniques could do
much to allay these fears and provide
for safe handling.

 




 

 

 

 

Facilities

In discussing the influence of various
facilities on bruise injury, we are refer-
ring to the permanent or semi-permanent
structures and layouts in the various
handling phases. —

More specifically, we are talking about
such things as corrals, holding pens,
_ loadingchutes, receiving docks, scales,
stockyard alleyways and pens, and the
layout and equipment used by packing-
houses in the Slaughter process. We
also included vehicles used to transport
animals.

Certain facilities appeared in one
form or another in more than one han—
dling phase. For example, there were
holding pens at feedlots, in stockyards,
and at packing plants. Likewise, there
were loading or unloading chutes at all
three of these points. On the other hand,
some of the facilities were peculiar to a
single handling phase. For example,
knocking boxes and spray pens were pe-
culiar tol packinghouse slaughter layouts.

Almost any of the above mentioned
types of facilities was different. That
is, the “lack of uniformity in construc-
tion, size and operation was bewildering.
In fact, —.a‘ detailed description is almost
essential to make it absolutely clear just
what a given facility was like.

For example the term "loading chute"
is almost inadequate. True enough, most
loading? chutes had similar appearance,
but the}? similarity ended there. To aptly
describe such a facility, we would have
to give“; width, length, height of sides,
degree 0f incline, type of incline and so
forth.

This lack of uniformity makes a dis-
cussion of the influence-of facilities on
bruise loss quite diffiCult. Thus the

20

following discussion treats each of the

facilities in a rather general way. We
paid particular note to the more common
characteristics each of the different
types of facilities possessed. In some
instances, we noted the more unusual
type of a facility if it appeared to have a
closer relationship to bruise loss, good
or bad.

Much has already been said of loading
chutes Without attempting to give "per-
feet" or "ideal" specifications. A good
loading chute had at least two essential
characteristics: (1) it was only wide
enough to allow a single animal to pass
through it comfortably; and (2) it was so
constructed that the animal could not be
diverted by happenings taking place on
either side of the chute during the time
that he was moving through it. If the
loading chute was too wide, two or more
animals could enter or attempt to enter
at the same time, resulting in a wedge.
The greater width could also enable an
animal to attempt to turn around in the
chute, which could also result in a wedge.
Both of these situations resulted in bodily
contact with the sides of the chute and
if the wedge was tight enough, bruising
could well result. Evidence of this was
obtained in some of the tests in this.

.survey.

Construction to prevent the animal
from observing happenings going on
alongside the chute was desirable. Even
relatively insignificant happenings dis—
tracted the animal and caused it to stop
its forward movement. This sometimes
resulted in a traffic jam, requiring at
the very least the use of a persuader to
start the animal. This, of course, invited

the possibility of additional carcass
injury.

In addition if one came to an abrupt
halt, pile-ups and confusion resulted
There was likelihood of wide spread bodily

 

 

 




 

 

impact on several animals and, of course,
increased bruise damage.

Where it was necessary for animals
to go up an incline to enter a vehicle,
this incline was usually a part of the
loading chute. Stair steps had some ad—
vantage over rampways or cleated in-
clines. Of course, good footing must be
an integral part of the chute. If the ani-
mal falls, it is almost impossible for
him to avoid contact with one or both
sides of the chute, and the impact may
be sufficiently severe toresult in bruis-
ing. If the chute is used for both un—
loading and loading, the necessity of
having a small area at the top of the
chute which is level and straight is quite
apparent. ‘

Animals unloaded from vehicles onto
loading chutes which began with stair
steps or rampways not only had great
difficulty in maintaining footing, but fell
frequently. In addition, animals exhibited
a certain wariness when confronted by
such situations and, frequently, it was
necessary to provide excessive encour-
agement. Higher bruise'loss, there-
fore, resulted both from the spills and
falls and from the use of persuaders
directly. Persuaders also caused ani-
mals to become fractious and strike
themselves against the doorways of the
vehicle.

What has been said about the width of
loading‘chutes is equally applicable to
other situations where animals can best
be handled single file. In particular, it
would apply to packinghouse slaughter
areas. Where long, narrow alleyways
led to slaughter facilities, there was
considerably less confusion, and less
bodily impact. Also less bruise loss
showed up on the carcasses.

Of course, alleyways moving through
stockyards or through large outside

21

holding areas did not have to meet this
requirement. In fact, they seemed bet-
ter if they were wide enough for several
animals to move abreast. The principal
consideration in a case of this type alley
(stockyard alleys and so forth) was that
they be free of obstacles, whether on
their surface or along the sides.

Protruding posts, partially opened
gates, and gate fixtures set out into the
alley were responsible for many of the
potential bruise-causing incidents during
yarding. Although the alleyway may
have been straight and wide, such obsta-
cles were almost always responsible for
some bruise injury, regardless of how
carefully the animals were handled. In
other stockyards,where these conditions

 

Cattle moving through stockyards often face

bruise hazards. Note the ”pocket” caused by
the half-open gate and the obstructions pro-
tuding along sides of the alley.

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

did not exist, animals moved through
the yards virtually "bump free."

, Gates and partitions were, of course,
a very essential part of all of the facili-
ties listed above. Whether or not they
exerted any influence on bruise loss was
primarily determined by the manner
used. If left partially open, forming an
obstruction, they increased bruise loss.
If swung too carelessly so they struck
an animal, they inﬂuenced bruise loss.
But if used carefully and judiciously,
they could actually reduce likelihood of
injury.

Partitions, or gates serving as parti-
tions, frequently prevented overcrowding
at various points during the handling
phases. During the slaughter phase,
this partition prevented animals from
turning back or backing out of passage—
ways, actions that could result in tripping
and falling or cause other situations
sometimes resulting in greater bruise
injury. Of course, sharp corners, pro-
truding nails, splintered boards and the
like should not be tolerated since each
of these could result in carcass damage.

The use of given facilities was just
as important as the construction of the
facility itself. No matter how sound and
well a gate was constructed or how per-
fectly it was stationed along an alleyway,
throwing it into ahip of a passing animal
still resulted in serious loss.

Perhaps one of the most important
considerations withfacilities is that they
be kept as simple and uncomplicated as
possible. We have already referred to
the fact that packinghouses with relatively
simple kill floor layouts had the lowest
identified bruise loss“ attributable to
handling during the slaughter phase.
Simple layouts are particularly important
at the packinghouse. The situation here
is one of limited time for handling and

22

by its very nature, is especially bewil-
dering, confusing and excitement provok-
ing from the animal's standpoint.

When we speak of simplicity of lay-
out, we refer to alleys and passageways
which had a more or less natural se-
quence. Once an animal entered, it pro-
ceeded voluntarily in the proper way.

Sharp turns, followed by extremely
short straightaways and succeeding sharp
turns were confusing. Some of the laby-
rinths bordered on the fantastic. Ani-
mals were started in one direction, made
a virtual U-turn, proceeded 50 feet, made
another U—turn, and then after another
25 or 30 feet were called upon to make
another U-turn. Put such alayout in use
in a situation taut with tension and ex-
citement and it is obvious that animals
will become frightened. Impacts will
occur which can result in increased
bruise loss.

From the time an animal is taken out
of his familiar pasture or feedlot until
dispatched at the slaughter house, it
facesstrange surroundings and situa-
tions. If these situations are kept as
simple as possible, there is the least
likelihood for confusion or bewilderment.
Carcass injury is bound to be lessened.

Insofar as facilities to transport ani-
mals are concerned, this report can touch
briefly only on the motortruck since this
was the only type transportation involved
during this survey. Use of interior di—
viders 1:11 partitions in separating semi-
trailers into two compartments posed the
likelihood of additional bruise-causing
incidents. Data obtained indicated some
additional injury did result from bodily
contact with these dividers. Results
showed that where partitions are used,
extra precaution should be taken inload-
ing and unloading to minimize excitement
and to allow animals to pass through the

“mo




narrow openings, in a manner to reduce
the possibility of impact.

Perhaps the most important feature
of motortrucks, insofar as bruise loss
was concerned, lay at their back door.
The ordinary vehicle used to transport
livestock had a very narrow end gate or
exit. Unfortunately, it was frequently
framed with sharp open angle irons or
channelways. The majority of potential
bruise-causing incidents which occurred
during loading and unloading happened
when animals were actually passing
through this doorway. At this point im-
pact frequently occurred, particularly if
the animals were moving too rapidly or
tried to crowd through more than one at
a time.

Some few trucks had narrow end gates
framed by rounded or cushioned panels.
In these cases, while there were almost
as many "bumps" sustained, the number
of fire or trim bruises associated with
these bumps was negligible. This would
indicate that sharp corners on any facility
are particularly hazardous and closely
related to severe bruise damage.

Improper loading, as typified by over-
crowding or loading so loosely as to
allow for shifting, was closely related
to bruise loss. In both of these situa-
tions, the possibility of impact was
greatly increased.

This was particularly true in the case
of overcrowding. When this condition

 

Narrow tailgates on trucks are a critical factor in bruise damage:
overlapping slats can inflict severe damage when an animal bumpS against them.

The sharp channel iron and
Obviously, ”hurry"

is out of place here.

23

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

existed, animals frequently fell during
transit, with resultant trampling. In
addition, when the time came to unload,
jamming increased at the rear exit. This,
of course, resulted in heavy impact of
shoulders and hips with the sides of the
narrow end gate.

’ Good footing is of particular impor-
tance in trucks. Animals not only have
to acclimate themselves to confined
areas and new surroundings, but they
must become accustomed to the sense of
motion. Many commercial livestock
haulers started out the journey at rela-
tively low rates of speed. This practice
helped reduce the likelihood of carcass
injury, for animals gradually became
used to the motion of the vehicle and
thus remained calm. They had anoppor—
tunity to catch on to the technique of
maintaining footing in a moving vehicle.

Handling Techniques

This section on handling techniques
and their relationship to bruise injury
emphasizes methods and procedures
used in moving livestock through the
various handling phases. Handler's at-
titudes and actions will be discussed in
the next section.

The te chniques—the methods and pro-
cedures—are usually closely related to
the various handling phases—for exam-
ple, certain loading techniques, unloading
ones, and those applying to various steps
in yarding and the like. In general, all
of the techniques have as their objeCtive
the orderly and expeditious movement of
livestock safely through a given handling
phase. Some of the techniques accom—
plished this objective with considerably
less risk of carcass injury than did
others.

24

The observations which follow come
from experience gained during the sur-
vey, buttressed by an analysis of the
potential bruise-causing incidents and
of the actual damage found on the car-
casses of the test animals.

One example of a handling: technique
which involved a certain amount of bruise
hazard was the "gate method" of sorting.
Actually, if this technique was properly
executed, the potential bruise-causing
happenings could be few. Nevertheless
the nature of the procedure itself re-
quired that it be recognized as a poten-
tial cause of bruise loss.

‘ The loading operation, as usually
practiced, involved starting the animals
up the loading chute and then getting
behind the cattle and providing whatever
amount of encouragement that was neces-
sary to keep them moving. Actually,
this technique often failed because the
encouragement was often applied to those
animals not responsible for the hold up.

A better technique was to apply the
encouragement at a point nearer the
entrance to the vehicle itself, usually
where the slow down occurred. Fre-
quently an animal already in the loading
chute decided to stop. If there were 12
or 15 animals in the lot and the driver
was standing behind all of them hitting
the rear animals across the rump, he
did not have very much effect on an ani-
mal standing virtually at the door of the
truck, maybe 10 or 15 feet away from him.

On the other hand, a light tap with
the persuader on the animal which had
stopped could cause it to move forward
and into the vehicle, thus removing the
blockade and restoring an orderly flow
of movement. The usual technique of
applying encouragement at the tail end of
the line often resulted in milling and con-
fusion and subsequent carcass damage-

 

 




 

 

When animals were unloaded from
trucks, some drivers practiced an effec-
tive technique to reduce the possibility
of bruise loss. 'The driver stood at the
side of the rear door. If more than one
animal attempted to come through the
exit, he merely placed his hand in front
of one of them. This usually caused that
animal to step back and the likelihood
of two animals becoming wedged in the
doorway was averted. ‘

Perhaps one of the most important
handling techniques was that of providing
animals with a measure of friendly han-
dling before shipment to market or
slaughterhouse. Frequently animals had
been alone on ranches or infeedlots with
little or no contact with human beings
until the day arrived for their shipment.
As a result, the appearance of a man
was disturbing.

But if several days before shipment
the producer had gone out and walked
around among the animals and let them
become accustomed to him, they were
much easier to handle, less likely to
become excited, and more willing to
enter strange and unnatural situations.
It was not necessary to move animals
about during this period although moving
them from one lot to another in easy,
careful stages could be beneficial.

Test lots which received friendly
handling when they were tagged went on
to load much easier than other animals
from the same group of cattle that had
not received this handling since they
were not included in the test lots. Rec-
ords of bruise loss obtained from coop-
erating packers on these animals not in
the test lots indicated that their bruise
loss was uniformly higher.

Another handling technique that re-
duced the possibility of carcass injury
was particularly useful during yarding

25

operations. This technique involved what
J. C. Rosse of Livestock Conservation,
Inc., has aptly termed ”allowing cattle
to obey their 'follow the leader' instinct."

Observation of several thousand head
of cattle moving through public stock—
yards, in various feedlots, and on several
ranches, would appear to prove that cattle
do have a "follow the leader instinct"—
that there may even be some sort of
social order among them. Where yard—
ing was unhurried, one animal assumed
leadership and the others in the lot then
followed it along the way. This technique
greatly reduced the use of persuaders
and the necessity of any vocal encour age-
ment. In turn, the movement of the cattle
was much more orderly and considerably
less likelihood of carcass injury arose.

This technique could also be used to
a limited extent during the slaughter op—
erations at a packing plant. Earlier in
this report we illustr ated a situation dur-
ing one of the tests when animals vir-
tually followed the leader into the pas-
sageways leading to the knocking box
and into the knocking box itself.

But kill operations are usually on a
schedule and it is somewhat more diffi—
cult to fully employ this loss-saving
technique. However, many packing plants
could make better use of the technique
by making relatively minor changes in
facilities adjacent to the kill area.

Handling technique during the slaugh-
ter process which had a significantbear-
ing on increased bruise injury involved
the use of knocking boxes large enough
to hold more than a single animal at a
given time. When two and sometimes
three animals were placed in this small
area, it was virtually impossible for the
first animal stunned not to be trampled
by the remaining animals. Those facili-
ties which permitted only a single animal

 

 

 

 




 

 

to be loaded into the box at a time elimi-
nated this hazard.

Unfortunately, many who handle live-
stock regard the use of persuaders as
their principal handling techniques. Ac-
tually, this is not a technique, but it may
constitute an integral part of a technique-
such as in the loading phase described
above. Judicious use of persuaders at
the proper time may facilitate movement
without causing injury. However, it is
rarely possible to place a persuader in
the hands of ahuman being with the cer-
tainty that he will use it judiciously or
that he will select the "right time."

Recently, a great deal of attention
has been focused on the use of tranquil-
izers to facilitate the movement and
handling of livestock. Using these drugs
is said to allay fear and excitement and
to permit more orderly and safer han—
dling. None of the test animals in this
survey were treated with these drugs so
it is impossible to make any comment
or observations on their effect. But use
of the drugs may be developing as a new
handling technique. Using tranquilizers
in livestock handling also indicates the
significance of the emotional state of the
animal as an effect on carcass injury.

Handler’s Actions and Attitudes

The handler's actions and attitudes
may well be the one cause that holds the
key to reducing or eliminating bruise
injury. Regardless of the excellence of
facilities, the soundness of handling tech—
niques, and the most favorable set of ani-
mal characteristics, disastrous bruise
loss could occur if the men handling the
livestock did not adopt the proper atti—
tudes and actions.

For example, in the test described in
detail in. appendix, page 39, the packing

 

26

plant had the most favorable set of facili-

ties. Yet, it would have been entirely
possible for the personnel responsible
for moving the cattle through these facili-
ties to have handled the animals in such
a manner as to raise their emotional
pitch to the frenzy levelnresulting in
milling and pitching—and thus have
brought on severe impacts. They could
have used persuaders in such a manner
as to run up the incidence of bruise loss,
particularly on the backs of the cattle.
In such a case, the excellence of the
facilities would have been completely
nullified by the actions of the handler.

In some instances, the facilities were
considerably less than excellent but the
careful and considerate handling of the
driver kept the animals calm. A mini-
mum amount of potential bruise-causing
incidents resulted. Hence a relatively
low bruise loss was attributable to this
handling phase.

Human conduct also affected bruise
loss for good or bad in every handling
phase of each test lot included in the
survey.

In general, handling accorded a given
lot of cattle reflected to a considerable
extent temperament and attitude of the
handler at the time the movement was
taking place. Ample evidence during this
survey supported this statement. If for
some reason the handler was in apetulant
or angry mood, his treatment of the
cattle was invariably rough or careless,
or both. Likewise, handlers who ap—
peared worried, preoccupied, or disin—
terested were careless. If things didn't
go too well, tempers frequently exploded
and rough handling ensued.

Of course, many things can affect
temperament and attitude of a livestock
handler—working conditions, outside f ac—
tors of a personal nature, even such

 

 

 




 

 

 

things as the weather and the animals
themselves. Handlers and their employ-
ers can minimize the inﬂuence of unfa-
vorable temperaments and attitudes.
First these people must be impressed
with the effect their actions can have
upon cattle in their charge.

An appeal can be made on the basis
of economics, particularly on how car-
cass damage may affect income and profit
and subsequently job security. Nothing
can be lost by an appealfor humane treat-
ment. The owner of livestock, whether
he be producer or packer, can also in—
sist on proper handling. By doing so he

can bring about trainingprograms and
educational drives aimed at impressing
handlers with the importance of their
job. If it is within the owner's province,
he can take corrective steps to guarantee
such safe handling. After all, the man
who owns the cattle is in the best posi-
tion to deal with this problem.

Hurried handling was the largest sin—
gle cause of bruises. A preceding sec-
tion of this report described the handling
technique of utilizing the "follow the
leader" instinct. The livestock industry
generally considers this technique effec-
tive in minimizing bruise loss. But the

 

These primal cuts emphasize the imp

ortance of careful handling. Here

$18 has been lost through bruise injury.

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

technique cannot be used if hurry be—
comes paramount in handling. Not only
did hurrying result in an increase in
potential bruise—causing incidents but in
many cases it retarded rather thanfacili-
tated handling. In effect it was self—
defeating.

For example, when animals were un-
loaded from a vehicle, efforts to hurry
them out of the truck by the excessive
use of persuaders accompanied by loud
voices usually resulted in confusing and
exciting the cattle. Not only was there a
marked increase in the number of bumps
sustained but a considerably longer time
was required to finally get all the animals
out of the vehicle. Actually, if the driver
was in a hurry, he would have better
accomplished his purpose by taking his
time.

There is no justification for hurrying
on any basis. Facility in movement is
desirable but this can be best attained
by proper handling techniques. Even in
the slaughter phase at packinghouses,
where kill schedules are a matter of
concern, safe handling techniques can
better meet these schedules than can
the intemperate handling which usually
accompanies hurry.

Carcass injury from hurrying was
likely to result in two ways. First, if
the animals were moved too fast, they
were likely to become unduly alarmed.
More impacts of the animal's body with
that of another animal or with a sta-
tionary part of a given facility could
occur. Second, the ordinary method
of hurrying animals with persuadersu
frequently in an excessive and abusive
manner—could cause bruise damage.

Miscellaneous Factors

Although weather did not appear as
important with cattle as it was with other

28

 

species of livestock, it exerted Some
influence on carcass bruise damage.
For instance, precipitation could cause
surfaces over which animals must pass
to become slippery or slickened so it
was difficult for them to maintain footing.
Even under the most careful handling
conditions, slips and falls were apt to
occur and some carcass injury resulted.
The only remedy was to spread the sur-
faces with materials that afforded better
footing and to move the animals as slowly
and cautiously as possible.

But the weather also exerted some
influence onbruise injury in less obvious
ways. Experienced livestock men have
long contended that animals are sensi-
tive to changes in the weather. When
such changes are imminent or in prog—
ress, animals may become uneasy and
fractious and difficult to handle. We
found this to be the case in three of the
tests in this survey.

Even though livestock men recog-
nize the unsettling effect of changeable
weather conditions, many of them select
just this particular time to market cat-
tle. While there may be times when
this is justified, many might do differ-
ently if they became more fully aware
of the relationship of bruise injury to
the emotional upset of animals during _
these changeable weather periods.

Previous studies of Farmer Coopera-
tive Service indicated that length—of—
haul has a bearing on dead and cripple
losses. ' Increased lengths-of—haul prO-
duced higher incidence of death and
crippling. The same would probably
hold true in bruise injury. Of course,
a major consideration would be handling
during the transit period.

Unfortunately, no test lots in this
SPYVGY moved over distances of Stiff
flment length to provide for an analySIS

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

of varying lengths-of—haul. However, co-
operating packing plants indicated some
increase in bruise injury on those lots
of. cattle moved. over extremely long
distances. The frequency did not in-
crease on anything like the scale for
other species of livestock. This result
agrees with the dead and cripple loss
statistics compiled in the previous FCS
studies.

One other factor of importance was
related to the so-called "stress factor"
in animals. It has already been observed
that animals react to strange surround—
ings. Animal psychologists tell us that
this results in a stress condition. This
may be reflected in anxiety or uneasiness.
These latter conditions have been found
closely related to carcass injury and
loss from bruising.

Other researchers have indicated that
both length of time animals are subjected
to stress conditions and what might be
termed "the degree of change" involved
affect the stress level. Thus if a shipment

of cattle were subjected to unfamiliar
conditions and if these conditions per-
sisted over a greater period of time, like-
lihood of bruise injury would increase.

This problem can be met in three

ways:

1. Friendly handling during the time
animals are in unfamiliar surroundings
would help calm them and allay their
anxiety and fear.

2. Facilities should be constructed
or adjusted to minimize complex move-
ments in order to move the animals as
naturally as possible. For example,
loading chutes were often spread with
hay and refuse when new. This cut down
uneasiness on the part of cattle using
the chute for the first time.

3. Handling during these periods of
stress should be as swift as safety al-
lows in order to reduce the time that
the animal is subjected to the stress
condition. -

Some Implications of the Survey

Bruise loss is a major problem of
the livestock industry, as data in this
report show. Substantial savings could
be effected if it were possible to reduce
this loss. If we assumed that total loss
were the same as the lowest bruise loss
in this survey, bruise loss on a national
basis would still be in excess of $1 mil-
lion a year. If we use what appears a
more nearly representative figure for
rate of loss, this national bruise loss
figure would be between $8 and $12 mil—
lion a year. While the loss cannot be
entirely eliminated, it can be substanti-

ally reduced, provided corrective meas- .

ures are taken.

The survey showed that the industry
was grossly underestimating at least

 

29

one portion of the loss. We refer to
trim loss. The majority of packing con-
cerns, in calculating their own bruise
loss figures, included only carcass de-
valuation loss, actually only about two-
thirds of the total loss. Tests conducted
as a part of this survey suggest that
trim loss should be re-evaluated and
properly considered as a loss factor.
While some tests had no devaluation
loss, trim loss occurred in all tests.

No single segment of the livestock
industry can be saddled with full respon-
sibility for bruise loss. Losses occurred
during each handling phase in direct re-
lation to the frequency and severity of
potential bruise-causing injuries which
took place. The tests showed that in

 

 




 

 

 

certain handling phases, which in turn
represented various segments of the
industry, the likelihood of bruise injury
was greater than in other handling phases.
At the same time, some tests showed
that these more hazardous phases need
not be responsible for the largest bruise
loss, provided that judicious and careful
handling coupled with efficient facilities
prevailed.

The important point is that various
factors could influence the bruise loss
in any handling phase. Therefore, if
conscientious efforts are made to con—
trol the bruise—causingfactors, any seg—
ment of the industry can favorably alter
its bruise loss pattern.

The industry needs to recognize that
this is really an industrywide problem.
Each segment must accept some measure
of responsibility for it.

This survey clearly indicated that
livestock can be handled safely through
the various handling phases and end up
as damage-free sides of beef in the pack-
inghouse cooler. Combined results of
all tests in the survey, without regard
to type and grade of cattle, showed that
about 30 percent of all test animals es—
caped bruise injury during handling from
ranch through processing. Of course,
this percentage varied from test to test.
Significantly those tests where facili-
ties were the best and where handling
was uniformly good were the tests with
the highest percentages of bruise-free
carcasses.

The same conclusion that cattle can
be handled safely can be justified on the
basis of results obtained in any given
handling phase as well as on the basis
of all phases collectively. Although this
record was much more favorable in

 

30

certain handling phases, in each phase a
substantial number of cattle were handled
without suffering any damage. There-
fore, the desirable goal of bruise-free
livestock is within reach.

The survey also implies possibilities,
if not ways and means, of reaching this
goal. Basically, the goal can best be
attained by control of bruise-causing
factors, but at least three possibilities
ought tobe given special emphasis. Two
are rather obvious, and, in most in-
stances, would not require the expendi-
ture of large sums of money or neces-
sitate extensive research. Adopting safe,
simple, "natural" facilities would enable
handlers to take advantage of the best
handling techniques and procedures. This
could be avery effective me ans of reach-
ing the goal. Likewise, promoting safe-‘
handling programs designed to alert
handlers to the relation of their actions
and attitudes to carcass injury could do
much to increase the number of bruise—
free carcasses hanging in the cooler.

One other possibility is worthy of
mention. While it may seem somewhat
remote at the moment, it should not be
dismissed too lightly. This has to do
with the likelihood of raising the bruise-
resistance of cattle. Earlier in this re-
port we mentioned work done at Ohio State
University that indicated bruise resist-—
ance could be increased by introducing
certain chemical compounds into the
system of cattle.

No doubt a great deal of research will
be necessary before such compounds
can be perfected to the point where they
can be administered safely and easily
and on an economical basis. But consid-
ering the strides made in r :centyearsin
animal husbandry and veterinary medi—
cine, we can assume that research to per»-
fect the compounds will, be forthcoming

 

 




 

 

An added stimulus to this activity may
well come from the pharmaceutical and
chemical industries which have recently
become active in the livestock field. The
success these industries have had with
systemic grubicides, antibiotics, feed

 

31

supplements, and the apparent success
they are going to enjoy with tranquilizers
may well prompt them to expand their
interests to the particular problem of
raising animal resistance to bruising.

.- ._.. ..~...w.wwu“».—i.m¢umwa cpaumnrzuiznssum- "any .2:'. an- a: jury ~"u‘ﬂ/x 3:1:_m11 $123311} ”use! ”1': .l

.ﬁﬁélh . ‘ -;.-‘
3.233313: ’.

xﬁv.
. a.
A" .
«"7»,

”-333"
.~ ., a.
”’11- .A'v’ A

-1‘;2’-s..‘ ”v."-

 

 

 

_ ..,~...:- “V. ,ng 29v... :fi‘f“ a! 7;...“
, engrLk-‘ﬁtvxémVa > . was“:

 




 

 

Appendix

The appendix is divided into two sec-
tions, one containing additional infor-
mation on the bruise test for cattle in
the market, and the other a description
of an actual test.

Supplemental Information on Bruise
Test for Cattle under Ordinary
Market Conditions

Livestock moving from the producer
through the processing plant ordinarily
passthrough many different hands. This
presented a major problem in designing
atest to study the relationship of bruises
to handling conditions and practices.
Good cooperation among the various han-
dlers was absolutely necessary.

In the ordinary marketing of live-
stock, cattle usually would be handled
by the producer, a transportation agency,
a marketing agency, and a slaughterer.
These are the very minimum, but it
might well be that even more people
would handle the cattle. For example,
in the market, cattle might be received
and handled by employees of the stock-
yard company, subsequently handled by
employees of a commission firm, then
handled againby stockyard company em-
ployees before being turned over to a
packer—buyer.

In setting up the tests used in the
Farmer Cooperative Service survey, we
decided to confine the test lots to cattle
which might be termed ”directs"—those
owned by the packinghouse before move-
ment to slaughter. This meant that the

32

cattle would be handled by a smaller
number of people, particularly at the
market. It is true that some direCt ship-
ments moved from the ranch or feedlot
directly to a packing plant. But, in some
instances, the stockyard company re-
ceived the cattle for the slaughterer and,
in those cases, animals were subjected
to some of what might be termed "or-
dinary yarding procedures. "

Another factor led to the decision of
using directs. If animals consigned to a
commissionfirm for ordinary sale were
used, they might be purchased by some-
one off the market, or by a packer who
had not been included in the cooperative
test schedules. It was definitely advis-
able to eliminate this possibility of losing
the shipment as much of the preliminary
work and the observations made during
that time would be of limited value in
actually dealing with the problem.

The survey was conducted during the
spring and fall of 1958, primarily in the
Midwest and Rocky Mountain areas.
Public stockyard companies in these
areas cooperated and a sufficient number
of packing plants indicated a willingness
to participate in the tests. Previous
studies by Farmer Cooperative Service
and other agencies indicated that the
weather factor is not as important With
cattle as with some other species 0f
livestock and, hence we felt it was “Qt
necessary to conduct these tests Over a
longer period of time in order to recon‘
cile climate differences.

Instead, the principal factors thought
essential were a sufficient number 0f

 

 




 

test lots and test animals to provide an
adequate sample, a sample that would
include various classes and grades of
cattle, and an adequate number of pack-
ing plants and loading points to account
or reconcile variations in facilities. We
believe that the sample obtained and
used in the survey adequately meets
these criteria.

The basic premise in the tests is that
bruises are caused by impact. The tests
attempted to relate such potential injury-
causing factors or conditions to carcass
bruise damage. During the time that the
tests were actually being conducted, they
were referred to by those participating
as "a bump—bruise" test.

Over a period of approximately 2
years before this survey, personnel of
Farmer Cooperative Service did consid-
erable experimenting in cooperation with
the Omaha office of Livestock Conserva—
tion, Inc., in potential bruise tests.

In these early experiments, there was
an attempt to tabulate the "bumps" cattle
received in being loaded or unloaded into
motor vehicles and in making various
maneuvers through the stockyards. Once
or twice, it was possible to obtainbruise
loss figures on a given lot of cattle. In
most instances there was no follow
through to enable the experimenters to
relate the bumps to the bruises. How—
ever, this early experimental work did
much to develop the techniques used in
this survey on a workable basis.

We decided that the most practical
Point to begin collecting potential bruise
data during these tests would be the
time the animals were loaded into a
Vehicle for transport to a market, and
that the logical concluding point for the
Observations would be at the packing
plant after the animal was dispatched.
Sueh an arrangement had one serious

33

weakness—it did not take into account
any conditions which might have existed
before loading time which could have
resulted in carcass bruise damage.

Apparently the only way to have guar-
anteed that all carcass bruise damage
occurred during the time the animals
were under observation would have been
to use animals that had been stanchion
fed for a somewhat lengthy period of
time prior to shipment. In this event,
of course, we would have been returning
to almost laboratory controlled condi-
tions. In a survey of this type it would
have been highly impractical, if not im-
possible, to establish such conditions in
the field for use in tests designed pri-
marily to consider happenings in actual
transportation under ordinary conditions.

As a compromise, we made every
effort to obtain test lots which had been on
a well maintained and properly equipped
feedlot for a minimum of 60 days before
movement. This gave the animals time
to recover from any bruise injuries sus-
tained in previous shipment. Since the
animals were on selected feedlots where
conditions were more or less ideal, the
likelihood of bruise injury would be
minimized.

As a final check on prior bruise in—
jury, we decided to apply the color test
for age of bruise determination to some
tissue samples obtained during the sur—
vey. We wanted to discern whether or
not bruises caused while the animals
were under observation were, in fact, of
sufficiently recent occurrence to be
properly associated with the potential
bruise-causing incident. We also wanted
to know that if they showed an older age
when subjected to the tests, whether it
would be proper to assert that the injury
had not occurred while the animals were
under observation. This was done on
several occasions during the test. In each

 

 

 




 

instance, the selected bruise tissue,
when subjected to the color test deter—
mination, proved a "fresh" or recent
bruise.

In recording the potential bruise-
causing incidents, we separated the total
movement from ranch or feedlot through
slaughter into distinct "handling phases."
This was necessary first because an
animal might sustain more than one bump
at the same carcass location at various
points and we needed to know at just what
point in the movement the various poten-
tial bruise injuries occurred.

Inaddition, by dividing the total move-
ment into specific periods, we could de—
termine at just what phase or points the
most of the carcass bruise injuries were
being sustained. Therefore, we main—
tained the record of bumps or potential
bruise—causing injuries on the basis of :
(1) carcass location; (2) handling phase;
(3) type of cattle; (4) grade and (5) a
category which dealt with the degree or
estimated degree of impact.

We also noted unusual conditions
likely to produce injury. For example,
an animal slipping and falling would
likely suffer bruise injury. An animal
which banged into the side of a fence post
when moving along an alleyway also might
be injured. Likewise, persuaders were
sometimes used in such a manner that
carcass bruise injury resulted.

In considering the total movement
from feedlot through slaughter, we found
the various periods or handling phases
somewhat suggested themselves. That
is, certain definite breaks normally oc-
curred and frequently these breaks were
marked by a Change in the personnel
handling the animals.

For example, the first logical phase
was loading and, in this instance, this

34

 

might be done either by the owner—
producer or by the trucker. Usually, it
was the trucker in the event for-hire
transportation was used. A second phase
was that period covering the time the
animal was actually in transit from the
feedlot or ranch to the stockyard or
slaughter house. A third phase was the
unloading phase.

Then, there was the phase which cov-
ered the various movements the animal
made after unloading until it reached the
final destination. In these tests, this
was the packinghouse. This rather long;
phase, in some instances, could be ap-
propriately termed a yarding phase.

The final phase embraced that period
of time beginning with the movement of
the animal from packinghouse holding
pens to, and including, slaughter. Actu-
ally, this phase might be divided into two
segments, one concerned with the move-
ment up to the knocking box and, the other,
the happenings taking place from the time
the animal enters this compartment until
it is stuck.

Another way to think of these various
phases would be to consider them from
the standpoint of responsibility for the
animal's welfare. In this instance, from
the time loading began until the animals
were delivered to their final destination
after transit, custody was either in the
hands of the owner-producer or afors
hire trucker. A second phase embraced
that time when the animal was in the
custody of various marketing agencies,
and the third, the period after the animal
reached the slaughterer.

But, for the purposes of the survey,
these categories were somewhat broad.
We decided to use the system outlined
previously with the various pronounced
Steps in handling and movement some“
what more compartmentalized.

 

 




 

Accordingly, for this survey, we
used the following handling phases: (1)
loading—the period of time beginning
with the first efforts of the trucker to
encourage animals to enter the vehicle
and ending with the entrance of the last
animal in a test lot into a vehicle; (2)
unloading—beginning with the moment
the way of exit was opened and ending
with the exit of the last animal from the
vehicle; (3) yarding—all happenings be-
tween the time animals were moved
from catch pens at unloading docks until
they were delivered to the packing house
holding pens; (4) a to-slaughter phase—
involving movement from packer holding
pens up to the knocking box on the kill
line; and (5) the actual slaughter and
post—slaughter phase—involving happen-
ings within the knocking box and to the
animal after sturming, up to and includ—
ing sticking.

No provision was made to include a
handling phase that would apply to move-
ment while in actual transit. We had
hoped that animals could be observed
in the vehicle during the movement from
feed lot to stockyard. However, in actual
operation of the tests, this was found
impractical, primarily because the ani—
mals were moved in covered vehicles.
This situation precluded any observation
of them from outside the vehicle.

To compensate for this omission, ob—
servers in an automobile followed each
of the test loads to note any untoward
incidents occurring in the line—haul.
However, in all cases, the trip was made
smoothly. No situation arose which re-
sulted in animals going down or being
Subjected to undue jostling or rough han-
dling. No doubt the cattle did sustain
Some bumps during the movement. Since
the animals were rather closely con—
fined, their lack of leverage would reduce
the degree of any impact sustained either

with the side of the vehicle or with an-
other animal.

While both the tests and the results
obtained would be strengthened if we
had been able to observe the animals in
transit, we do not feel that this lack of
observation has seriously weakened the
overall operation of the tests or the
results.

To provide for the most exact possible
identification of potential bruise — causing
incidents, we identified each animal in
the test lot by number. Three—by-five
pieces of a paper resistant to excessive
wetting were used for the tags. These
tags were numbered by using waterproof
ink and the numbers assigned on an arm
bitrary basis. However, we found it was
best to confine the numbers to single or
double digits; that is, to make the num—
bers run from 1 to 99, inclusive.

These paper tags were placed as near
the center of the back of the animal as
possible, but positioned in the hip area.
The same number used on the animal
before slaughter was retained for use
on the carcass after slaughter. When
the hide was removed from the slaugh-
tered animal, a metal tag bearing the
same number was placed in the brisket.
This number remained on the animal
through all the operations incidental to
dressing out the carcass, and stayed
with the carcass until after a final check
was made 24 hours after slaughter in
the packinghouse cooler.

We felt some concern as to whether
or not the paper tags would remainfirmly
attached to the animal during the various
phases of movement and, particularly,
if they would stay on when the animal
went through the spray pen immediately
before slaughter. The special glue, how-

, ever, seemed to firmly attach, the tag to

35

the hide of the animal. During all the
tests, only three tags were lost.

‘SCLEIYFS‘

‘b éb'i

_,
E2

l.
411'
.,.

I

h
r .-
{I

i
".2
“l
n.
we
l"
”'4'-
‘4
5""

m'“ -#3—ﬁ‘$‘,n . ,_.-_. ‘ v‘ , ‘- ._ ‘ A , ‘ ~ _-; -
'y- 5.3}: A, ‘ 1': *‘ti :1", L". ’ - t :-‘:’h ..—_.. e, . "xi-4 -... < ...,_i..L’ 51"“. n. ‘ 2’ " ‘ :— 1 -
44_ A, _ . . l. l . :2. . .. l «VT ., . ... ._ A. , _l - ‘

'-c.

in? , 77 ti:

. ”l l l

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

As stated, these tests were conducted
under conditions ordinarily prevailing in
the movement of livestock from feedlots
to and through slaughter. Thus the
problem of maintaining a record of poten-
tial bruise-causing incidents was much
greater than if these tests had been con-
ducted under laboratory conditions. Here
it was necessary that the normal opera—
tion of movement be maintained and we
were unable to ask for special consid—
erations or special facilities. We had
to decide on some method which would
allow almost instantaneous recording of
the potential bruise—causing incidents.

We considered several methods, but
finally decided that the most practical
means would be to use portable tape
recorders.1 By using these instruments,
we could observe and instantaneously
record what was seen for transcription
later onto regular printed forms.

In practice, we first had to identify a
particular handling phase under observa-
tion. Then, as the various happenings
occurred, we recorded them, stating
number assigned to the affected animal
and the carcass location where impact
occurred. For example if, during the
loading phase, animal Number 16 struck
his right hip against the rear end door
of the truck upon entering, the observer
spoke into the microphone, "Number 16,
right hip." This was done at each of the
various loading phases. Subsequently,
the tapes were transcribed and the

 

 

information transferred to individual
cards prepared for each of the test ani—
mals (see figure 1, page 5).

We agreed upon a way to estimate im-
pact of the bump. After observing many
animals in various movements, through
various phases of handling, we decided
that where the impact was sufficient to
noticeably affect the normal movement
of the animal it would be designated as
"hard." Likewise, where the impact was
little more than a mere grazing of the
surface of the carcass against the obsta-
cle, such impact was designated as
"light." This left the majority of nor-
mal impacts as being undesignated. While
this particular classification of impact
degrees was certainly not scientific nor
exact, it at least recognized that degree
of impact was a factor and attempted to
evaluate such variations in the only pos-
sible manner under less than laboratory
controlled conditions.

During most of the various handling
phases, three observers were used. They
stationed themselves at various vantage
points which would allow for maximum
observation but, at the same time, were
so located as to preclude any overlapping
observations. We felt that for the most
part the three observers were adequate,
although in one or two instances a fourth
man would have been helpful. W However,
too many observers could have caused a
duplication in data.

1During certain(n?the handling phases these portable tape recorders did not function properly. Unfor-
tunately, it was not possible to determine this mechanical defect until after the completion of the

handling phase.

Of course,ii;was then too late to make any correction in the data. The author would

 

strongly advise anyone using portable recorders:inwork of this kind to run a pre-test on the recorder
prior to the beginning of each observation period and, in addition to rewind and play back at least
some portioncﬂ’the record whenever a break might occur in the observation period which would give him
sufficient time to make such a check on the recording he is making. ENentﬂunuﬂithese precautions may
not result in complete elimination of mechanical failure, they should reduce the likelihood of some
minor problem with the machine, having the effect of "killing" the entire test. In addition, during
loading and unloading and possibly also during yarding if such a defect was discovered and could not
be remedied on the spot, a reasonably accurate record could be maintained bV resorting to recording
observations on tab cards carried by the observer for Just such an emergency:

36

 

 




 

Immediately following slaughter of
the animals, observers moved to posi-
tions on the packinghouse floor to record
the dressed carcasses and the bruise
damage, if any. As mentioned, each car-
cass bore a number identical with that
assigned to the animal during the pre-
slaughter period. When the carcass
reached the trim station, an observer
inspected it for bruise injury. If bruises
appeared on the carcass, the exact loca-
tion of the damage was recorded. That
is, if a bruise appeared on the left loin
of Number 16, we noted this.

When the tissue was trimmed out by
a packinghouse inspector, it was placed
in a receptacle andweighed. This weight
was also recorded in hundredths of a
pound. If the carcass showed other dam-
age which might have been due to impact,
this was also noted on the form used at
trim station.

All information obtained during this
p0 st- slaughter check on the packinghouse
floor was subsequently transferred to the
individual animal's record card. Later
on it was correlatedwith potential bruise
data obtained during the pre—slaughter
period.

After the dressing operationwas com—
Pleted, the carcasses were hosed and
shrouded and placed in the packinghouse
ccoler. The effect of shrouding, together
with the influence of the cooling period,
was to finish the carcass. Some bruise
damage was not discernible until after
this period had elapsed. At some plants
the process line moved with such rapidity
thatoccasionally bruise trim was missed
by the inSpector and was not removed
fI'Om the carcass until a subsequent in-
Spection in the cooler.

Therefore, on the day following
slaughter, observers carefully inspected
all test animal carcasses after 24 hours

37

in the cooler. This inspection verified
the data obtained at the trim station. It
provided an opportunity to make certain
that the right carcass location for a par—
ticular trim bruise had been noted, and
that the trim was assessed against the
proper animal. Frequently it was diffi-
cult to ascertain which side of the car—
cass, right or left, had the bruise dam-
age since these carcaSses were cut in
half before reaching the trim station.

In addition to this verification process,
there was a very careful inSpection to
discover whether or not additional bruise
trim had taken place. This happened in
a relatively few instances. In these
cases, we estimated the weight of the
trim removed, based on the judgment of
a packer representative and on experi-
ence gained during the tests in compari—
son with bruises actually weighed.

During this cooler inspection, we
noted all "fire bruises." These bruises
do not need to be trimmed but appear on
the fatty surfaces of the carcass as in—
flamed or reddened spots, popularly re-
ferred to as fire Spots or fire bruises.
They result from impact of sufficient
severity to rupture the vascular system
but not enough to injure the muscle tis—
sues. For these tests, we decided to
record this type bruise since it was evi-
dence of impact.

The dressed weight of each animal
and the grade of the carcass was also
obtained during the cooler check. We
used what might be termed "packer
grades." These are based on USDA
standard grade terminology; that is,
prime, choice, good, standard, utility
and commercial. In the packer's case
each of the grades was broken down into
three categories: top, medium and low.
Choice insofar as the packer was con-
cerned would be t0p choice, medium
choice or low choice. These grades were

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

used rather than the broader USDA terms
in order to obtainamore nearly accurate
estimate of economic loss later on.

Occasionally, sides of carcasses were
damaged to such an extent that packers
had to make a discount on the value of
the entire side in order to move it in the
trade. Such sides were referred to as
"devalued" sides, and the loss was re-
ferredto as devaluation loss. Such a loss
was usually computed on the basis of so
many cents or fractions of a cent per
pound on the weight of the side. For ex-
ample, the loss might be 1 cent a pound.
If one side of the animal weighed 300
pounds, the devaluation loss would be $3.
The range of devaluation loss on a per
pound basis was from one-half cent to
3-1/2 cents.

This devaluation loss was arbitrary
from the standpoint of the packer and
flexible from the standpoint of the current
market price of beef. That is to say,
devaluation loss was a value judgment
of a packer beef department employee.
Since these men were well trained in
their work, we felt their devaluation fig-
ures were trustworthy.

The matter of flexibility came from
the fact that devaluation loss could be
determined to some extent by the compet-
itive condition in the market for dressed
beef at the moment. If the demand for
the particular grade was very high, de—
valuation loss, in order to move the car-
cass would be less than would be the
case if the market was slow. Conse-
quently, a side might take a 2 cent deval—
uation this week. If the same side ap-
peared in the market next week under
an extremely active demand for dressed
beef of that type of side, the devaluation
might only be 1-3/4 or 1-1/2 cents.

To cover full economic loss sustained
by animals in the test lots, we recorded

 

38

any devalued sides occurring in the tests
as well as the packer assessment or de—
valuation loss. All information obtained
during the cooler check was then tran-
scribed to the individual animal's record
card. Adding this information gave a
complete record of all bruise injury and
loss.

Combined with the data obtained dur-
ing pre—slaughter handling, the card
presented a complete picture of all that
happened to the animal during the various
handling phases and the consequent injury
and loss if any. The information on the
individual animal' s card showed the rela-
tionship of potential bruise—causing inci-
dents to actual carcass damage and
financial loss.

Conducting tests of the type described
above raises the question of whether or
not observers or those engaged in the
process being observed were biased. In
these tests, we made every effort to
eliminate observer bias by establishing
as inflexible standards of judgment and
procedure as the tests would permit. We
also made sure the observer thoroughly
understood the standards.

Dealing with the bias problem from
the standpoint of those handling the ani-
mals was not as easy. In the first place,
we thought it advisable to fully inform
all personnel observed on the nature of
our work. This was particularly neces-
sary at stockyards and packinghouses.
In these establishments management fre—
quently conducted similar tests before
making procedural changes which could
affect the employee's livelihood or work-
ing conditions. We felt employees should
fully understand that an outside agency
was conducting the tests, and that the
tests were not a company project, and
would not be used in any way to affect
them personally.

 

 




 

Of course, we requested the person—
nel to carry ontheir jobs in the usual
manner. However, human nature being
what it is, some change in performance
techniques or standards was possible
because the employee knew and realized
someone was watching. This reaction
might result in a higher degree of effi-
ciency, which was probably true in most
instances. It also might result in an at-
titude which could lower efficiency.

With this problem in mind, we devised
some checks or tests which could be
run independently of the survey tests to
determine whether or not we were ob—
taining bias. We ran these checks on all
handling phases up to the packinghouse
level. At this point, we could not run
these checks because the observers were
so close to the actual slaughter opera-
tions. Any such checks would have ended
up with the same bias (if any) that was
being obtainedon the actual survey tests.

However, we unobtrusively checked
loading, unloading and yar ding at the var-
ious stockyard companies. We believe
the results obtained during these checks
gave a reliable estimate of actual con—
ditions. We used these results as a
standard for measuring bias obtained
during these particular handling phases.

We needed these checks at these ear-
lier handling phase s, from loading
through yarding, for an additional rea-
son. Test lots of animals were all in the
Category of "directs" and, as such, re—
ceived only a minimum of handling at
the stockyards. In this sense, therefore,
they were not typical. The test animals
actually received less handling and did
not go through all of the same handling
Steps that a normal lot of cattle, bought
and sold in the market, would have to
endure. By making the yard checks, as
referred to above, we obtained a much
more adequate picture of potential bruise

injury likely to occur to an average con-
signment of cattle.

Description of an Actual Test

This description of one of the actual
test lots illustrates the techniques used
during this survey. This test lot involved
24 steers hauled a distance of about 60
miles from the feedlot and moved direct
to the packing plant without going through
a stockyard.

The animals were loaded about 7:30
a.m. on Sunday morning and delivered
to the holding pens of the packer by 11:00
a.m. They were held in the pens until
noon on Monday, and slaughtering opera-
tions began at 1:00 p.m. This particular
plant was small. The rate of kill was
comparatively slow, but all the animals
were slaughtered, dressed and in the
cooler by3:00p.m. Observers conducted
the cooler check early Tuesday morning.

A packer—buyer bought the steers in
the middle of the week before shipment
from the ranch. A for—hire carrier de—
livered them.

As customary, the observers arrived
at the feedlot sufficiently in advance of
loading time to thoroughly acquaint them-
selves with the layout at the lot. No two
feedlots were alike, and this was partic-
ularly true of the sorting and loading
facilities. It was absolutely necessary
that observers determine the best pos-
sible vantage points for viewing the
loading operations.

At this lot, the animals were moved
into a small catch pen which funneled
down in a V—shape to a loading chute of
the ramp type. General construction of
facilities was good.

39

 

 

 




 

The first step in the tests was to fix
the paper tags bearing the identifying
numbers on each of the 24 cattle. The
tags had been prepared in advance so
that the tagging process could proceed
expeditiously. The tags had to be applied
before beginning the loading. Since this
was one of thefimportant handling phases,
identification of the animals had to be
readily obtainable if a record was to be
maintained of potential bruise - causing
incidents.

We found early in the preliminary
work of the survey that the most practi—
cal means of tagging the animals was to
confine them in a rather tight holding
pen and work from the outside—that is,
reach over the fence and place the tag
in position. It was next to impossible to
tag the animals by walking around through
them in a large lot.

With two or three men working from
the outside of a small enclosure, it was
possible to tag 20 or 30 head of cattle in
about 5 to 10 minutes without causing
the cattle to become fractious or upset,
or without endangering the men who were
doing the tagging. Fortunately, the small
catch pen at this particular lot was quite
adequate to permit this tagging proce-
dure. The 24 steers were tagged in ap-
proximately 6 minutes.

The special glue used on the tags was
not applied until the tagging operation
began. This glue has a rubber base and
was extremely Viscous. It was best ap-
plied by squeezing itfrom a plastic bottle
such as may be found in many homes for
use in dispensing mustard or catsup, and
Spreading it evenly on the tag. The tag
was pressed firmly down on the animal,
not slapped on the carcass. With the tag
so fixed, there was little likelihood of its
being lost or coming off the animal dur-
ing subsequent movement.

40

We found one of the most important
things to remember during the tagging
was that the animals be allowed to mill
at will, thus bringing themselves suffi-
ciently close to the sides of the confining
pen to allow for easy tagging. No effort
was made to encourage them to mill, as
this could have resulted in injury to the
cattle due to increased excitementhand
emotional upset.

When time for actual loading Opera-
tions came, the observers took their po-
sitions at the pre-selected vantage points.
In this particular test, one observer was
stationed at the lower end of the loading
chute. He observed animals from the
time they entered the bottle or V-shaped
portion of the catch pen until after they
had entered the chute and begun to walk
up the ramp into the vehicle.

A second observer was stationed at
the top of the ramp, immediately adjacent
to the rear door of the semi-trailer.
From this position, he observed any un—
toward incidents happening in the chute
and also any bumps the animal sustained
as it entered the narrow opening into
the truck.

The third observer was stationed at
the rear of the catch pen. He centered
his attention on any sorting done in se-
lecting animals for loading. He also
noted any incidents that occurred back
in the catch pen as the animals were
encouraged to go into the V and enter
the ramp.

The semi-trailer used to transport
the animals in this test lot had a par ti‘
tion in the center of the vehicle, dividing
the animals into a forward and a rear
compartment. This was usually the case
where larger semi-trailer. were used.
When this Situation prevailed, the animals
were normally divided into two lots, one
for the front compartment and one for

 




 

the rear compartment, before beginning
the loading. Such was the case in this
particular test.

Since animals moving into the front
compartment of the truck had to pass
through a smaller opening, because of
the divider or partition in the center of
the vehicle, the possibility arose that
they might well sustain bruise injury at
this time. We could not observe such
potential bruise-causing incidents, be—
cause the covered trailer and the slatted
sides prevented such an observation.
But we attempted to ascertain whether
or not animals moving in the forward
compartments suffered greater bruise
damage than those which moved only to
the rear end of the vehicle.

In all tests where divided vehicles
were used, we recordedthe loading order
of the animals. Thus we were able to
determine which animals had traveled in
the front end of the truck and which had
traveled in the rear. The observer sta-
tioned at the top of the ramp, immedi-
ately adjacent to the rear end of the
vehicle, obtained this loading order. In
this test observers recorded a total of
nine potential bruise-causing incidents
(bumps). They were equally divided
among hip, rib and shoulder bumps. The
degree of impact was judged to be "nor—
mal," except for one rib bump which was
judged "light."

After loading was completed, the
trailer began its journey to the packing-
house, followed closely by the observers
in a passenger car. No untoward inci-
dents occurred during the journey which
could have resulted in throwing the ani—
mals off balance and causing them to fall
in the truck. The driving was of such
nature as to give a smooth and jostle-free
ride. All roads traversed, except for
approximately 1 mile from the feedlot
back to the main highway, were hard

41

surfaced and in excellent condition. The
access roadfrom the feedlot to the high-
way, while being only a dirt road, was
also in good shape.

The driver maintained a moderate
rate of Speed for the first 5 or 10 min—
utes in order to allow the animals to be-
come accustomed to the motion of the
vehicle. He then increased his speed
until he traveled approximately 45 to 50
miles an hour on the open highway. He
made one stop en route to check the
weight of the vehicle at an official State
weight inspection station. The stop and
start were made smoothly.

Upon arrival at the packinghouse,
observers again assumed positions which
gave them an opportunity to fully ob-
serve the animals as they left the trailer
and during movement from the truck to
the packinghouse holding pens. One ob—
server was stationed directly adjacent
to the rear opening of the vehicle, an—
other approximately 15 or 20 feet beyond
at a point where the alleyway turned,
and the third at the entrance to the hold—
ing pen.

In this test, animals stepped directly
from the trailer onto the level surface
of the receiving alley. It was not neces—
sary for them to descend a ramp or
steps. When the door to the truck was
opened, the animals began to come out
in avery few seconds and unloaded with-
out any encouragement or persuasion on
the part of the driver. There was little
or no crowding on the part of the steers
as they left the truck. During the entire
unloading process, only two bumps were
observed. Both of these were light bumps
on the hip area.

We observed a total of four bumps
during the yarding phase of this partic—
ular segment of the test; that is, from
the time the animals were actually out

 




 

 

of the truck until they were in the holding
pens. One bump was on the rib, two on
the shoulder, and one light bump on the
rump.

The receiving facilities at the pack—
inghouse were as nearly ideal as it would
be possible to expect. Further, the han-
dling accorded the test animals was ex-
tremely good. Since it was a Sunday
morning, there was no necessity for
hurry. The animals more or less un-
loaded and yarded them selves.

This test lot of animals was sched-
uled to go "on the kill" at 1:00 p.'m.,
Monday. They remained in the holding
pen to which they were yarded upon re—
ceipt at the packinghouse until about 30
minutes before this time.

Then the gate to the holding pen was
opened and the animals moved out into
the wide approach alley which led to the
slaughter area. Again, since these ani—
mals were the first to be killed on this
particular day, there was no hurry. They
probably received somewhat more favor -
able treatment than if the test lot had
been sandwiched into the middle of a
kill day.

In this test, we divided out observa—
tion of potential bruise-causing incidents
into two phases. One covered the time
from the animal's departure from the
holding pen up to the entrance to the last
segment of the alley leading to the knock-
ing box. The other phase covered move-
ment from that point through the knock-
ing box and, from the knocking box after
stunning, to the floor of the sticking sec-
tion of the slaughter area. Three ob—
servers were used, one stationed back
along the alley to watch all action em-
braced in the first phase, another at the

knocking box, and a third down on the
floor.

42

 

Because of the arrangement of the
facilities at this plant, we believe that
observations obtained during this test
were extremely accurate. Perhaps a
brief description of the facilities will
support this statement.

The total distance embraced in phase
1, described above, was approximately
150 feet. This covered from the exit of
the exterior holding pen to the entrance
to the packinghouse kill area. While
there were no turns to be traversed, the
total length was broken into four sections
by movable gates. The first section
covered a distance of approximately 75
feet. The alley at this point was about
10 feet wide.

The second section was about 25 feet
long, and the third 15 feet long, both of
these also about 10 feet in width.

The third section covered a distance
of only 8 or 10 feet. The sides came in
in a funnel-like arrangement, narrowing
to a doorway which admitted only one
animal to the narrow alley approaching
the knocking box.

An overhead catwalk extended over
the last three sections of this distance.
From the catwalk the observer had an
unobstructed view of the animals moving
along this area. By going to the far end
of the catwalk, the observer was able to
maintain a constant View of the animals
as they left the holding pen and moved
along the first or 75 foot section. The
distance from the end of the catwalk to
the exit of the holding pen was short
enough to allow positive identification of
any animals sustaining potential bruise-
causing incidents.

The second handling phase described
in the Paragraph above was likewise easy
for an observer to monitor. The facili-
ties here included a narrow alleyway

 

 




 

approximately 10 to 12feet in length, just
wide enough to accommodate animals
single file. This led directly to the knock-
ing box, built to accommodate a single
animal. A walkway, adjacent to the alley
and the knocking box, was located in such
manner that the observer could easily
see what was going on when the animal
was moving through the alleyway and
while he was in the box.

After the animal was stunned, the
side of the knocking box opened and the
animal slid onto the kill floor where it
was shackled, raised and moved on the
chain to the sticking area. An observer
stationed on the floor at this point could
easily see the animal slide from the box
and watch anything happening during the
shackling process. Principally this ob-
server recorded the degree of impact
which the animal sustained in sliding
from the box and noted which side of
the carcass was affected.

The operational procedure here was
to move the animals from the holding
pen along the first or 75 foot segment of
the alley and into the second on 25 foot
. section, where they were halted. At this
point, the Sprayers were turned on and
the animals drenched in order to cool
them down. After a few minutes of
drenching, a portion of the animals were
then released into the third section (the
15 foot section). From there the driver
herded them through the remaining sec-
tions of the facilities to the knocking box.

The smaller 10 foot section of the
alleyway (the funnel-shaped section) was
normally cut off and made a separate
section only when three or four animals
were left. As long as sufficient animals
were inthe combinedarea (the 10 and 15
foot sections Opened together) excessive
milling was not a problem. The animals
turned off into the single file necessary
to go into the small alleyway leading

43

directly to the knocking box. However,
when practically all animals had been
slaughtered and only two or three re—
mained, closing them off into the funnel-
shaped section avoided excessive milling.
The animals could be more easily en—
couraged to enter through the small
Opening door into the single file section
of the alley.

As previously stated, the knocking
box at this plant was built to accommo-
date one animal at a time so the rate of
kill here was on the basis of a single
animal. This, of course, made observa-
tion of animals within the knocking box
much more accurate, as well as easier.

Observations made during these last
two phases of this test netted the follow—
ing result. In the first phase (covering
exit from the holding pens to entrance
into the single file alleyway) we recorded
19 hip bumps—2 "hard," 8 rib bumps, 7
shoulder— 1 "hard, " 10 bumps on unspeci-
fied carcass locations (parts of the car-
cass other than those embraced by the
aforementioned categories), making a
total of 44 bumps in phase 1. In phase 2
(covering movement through the single
file alley and while in the knocking box
for stunning) we noted 8 hip bumps, 1
rib, 7 shoulder and 7 on other carcass
locations or a total of 23 bumps.

A total of 82 potential bruise—causing
incidents (bumps) occurred during this
test. When this information was tran—
scribed to the individual animal's record
card, we found that three animals had
received no observed potential bruise—
causing incidents.

As the carcasses of the animals passed
the trim station, they were observed
while all bruise tissue trimmed from
the carcass was weighed. There were
13 such bruises, having a total weight of
3.46 pounds. In this test, more than half
of the trim bruises were on the shoulder.

 




 

The following day, when the carcasses
were checkedin the cooler, no additional
trim was found but 23 fire bruises were
noted. These were about equally divided
between hip, rib and shoulder.

With the record of potential bruise-
causing incidents and the record of actual
bruise injury available, the next step was
to calculate the financial loss sustained
and to attempt to relate the actual bruises
to the potential damage record.

The method for determining economic
bruise loss was a relatively simple one.
We decided the most practical means
would be to use prices of primal cuts,
as listed in The Provisioner for the cur-
rent week on the Chicago market. By
multiplying this price by the weight of
the trimmed tissue from that particular
carcass location, we obtained a trim
value. For example, if the price of choice
ribs was quoted at 50 cents a pound and
there was one-half pound trimmed from
the ribs, then the loss would be 25 cents.

 

This was done for loins, ribs, shoul—
ders and the like, but there were occa—
sions where trimmed tissue occurred
from areas not included in these prices.
For instance, bruised tissue might be
removed from the back of the animal.
To estimate loss of this tissue we used
the carcass price. If choice steers of
this particular weight were quoted at 40
cents a poundfor the side and half pound
of trim was indicatedin the "other" cate-
gory, we set the bruise loss at 20 cents.

On the basis of prices for the week
during which this test was conducted,
the 3.46 pounds of bruised tissue trimmed
from the carcasses of the 24 steers was
valued at $1.49.

This test showed a strong relationship
between potential bruise-causing inci-
dents, and bruises appearing on the

44

carcass after slaughter. We established
this relationship from the record card
of each animal. After ascertaining the
carcass location of the bruised tissue,
we checked the record of potential bruise-
causing incidents for the same carcass
location. By using this procedure, we
could determine whether or not a poten-
tial injury affected the animal at the
same carcass point during the time it
was under observation and, if so, during
what handling phase the event occurred.

For example, in this test, we found
that animal Number 39 had a bruise on
the left hip. This bruise resulted in a
quarter of a pound trim, valued at 17
cents. When we consulted the record
of events during the various handling
phases, we found that Number 39 had
suffered a bump on the left hip while
being unloaded from the vehicle after
traveling from the ranch to the packing
plant. This was the only observed in—
cident affecting that particular carcass
location from the time the animal was
sorted for loading until he had been
slaughtered. On that basis, we could
say that in all likelihood the bruise injury
on the left hip occurred during unloading.

- Using this method, we identified 11 of
the 13 bruises which resulted in trims.
These accounted for the one hip bruise,
the three bruises observed at other parts
of the carcass, one of the rib bruises,
and six of the shoulder bruises. One rib
bruise and one shoulder bruise could not
be related to any observed bump.

The same procedure was used in an
attempt to identify fire bruises. We
related 14 of 23 such bruises to various

incidents recorded during the handling
phases.

. The identified bruises, which resulted
in trimming 0f bruise tissue from the
carcasses, represented 85 percent of

 




 

all trim bruises and accounted for 84
percent of the total trim weight and 85
percent of the total financial loss. Sixty—
one percent of the fire bruises were
identified. Sides of carcasses were not
damaged enough to require devaluation.
Hence, we did not assess any devaluation
loss against this test lot.

As to where the identified bruises
happened, one trim bruise occurred dur-
ing unloading; one during initial yarding,
that is, after the animals were unloaded
from the truck until they reached the
packer holding pens; and the remaining
nine occurred during the movement
from holding pens through and including
slaughter. All fire bruises, except one
which was related to an incident during
the loading phase, occurred during the fi-
nal movement of the animals to slaughter.

This test description illustrates the
various methods and techniques used
and poses some of the problems in con—
ducting the tests during this survey. No
two tests were alike. Facilities, han-
dlers, and animals themselves all varied.
However, this test may be considered
typical, except that the incidence of
bruise loss was extremely low.

Actually, the financial loss in this
test figured out to about6.2 cents a head,
far below the estimated average bruise
loss, and the lowest of all tests. But
this was not too surprising for the facili—
ties at this particular packing plant were
excellent. In addition, loading facilities
back at the ranch, the vehicle which
moved the animals to the packinghouse,
and the care with which that vehicle was
drivenwere all of near model character.

The relatively strong relationship
between bruise—causing incidents and
bruise results established in this test
was probably due to the fact that all of
the various handling phases were easily

45

observed and that the record maintained
of potential bruise—causing incidents
(bumps) was probably as accurate as
possible for human eyes to detect and a
human voice to record. Certainly, the
conditions surrounding this test con-
tributed much to its being one of the most
successful ones conducted during the
survey.

One observation should be made at
this point which applied to this particular
test and to all of the other tests in the
survey. We have indicated that during
the various handling phases an effort was
made to record all bumps the various
animals sustained. When a group of ani-
mals is moving along an alleyway or going
through various movements ordinarily
occurring in marketing livestock, an ob—
server finds it difficult to see everything
that happens.

We did a great deal of experimental
observing before the beginning of these
tests. We first established how much
could be observed and recorded. In most
instances we found it would be impossible
to watch for bumps which might occur by
the animal contacting a facility and, at
the same time, to maintain an equally
good record of bumps occasioned by the
collision of two animals—body to body.

We decided to devote our principal
attention to making a record of bumps
by animal contact with facility rather
than with another animal. The reason
for the decision was twofold. First, the
degree of impact with a facility was
likely to be greater than with another
body, resulting in heavier or more ex-
tensive bruise damage. This was borne
to some extent in the previously referred
to Ohio bruise work. Second, body to
body injury was caused in many cases
by the facility or by the human factor as
reflected in the way the moving animals
were handled.

. say. ‘ "'. " ‘ . A ‘
_ . a; A. - 451...: . A. - ,-

5
t;
V
A
‘,

_‘_é.._. ._A.—h

3,: -*~5"‘" fur—Z

. ‘.<
«W- .

:{rﬁg‘w—g -: a??—

,-_: «:r <i .-

- - fv- I'r- 1,...

'cm— -

w” _ 0

ref

. A€_-.4'__

- :e:~:~qn:mr:a.

=:. ~ “A 77‘. T‘Y“A?. <5» Avid: «A's: —:‘ V V
“W—“—— i J

 




 

 

Since the basic purpose of the survey
and the tests was to isolate these con-
ditions and practices which brought on
bruise damage, with the hope that cor-
rectional measures might be taken, it

seemed logical to concentrate on those

areas for which peOple were responsible.

However, where we were able to in-
clude potential injuries from the impact

46

of one animal with another, we made them
a part of the test record. In addition,
during the final handling phase of all of
the tests, that is, that portion involving
the last movement into the knocking box
and in the knocking box, we always ob-
served and recorded animal to animal
contact. Here the distance involved was
extremely limited and it was easy to get
that type of information.

5’? U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1959 O - 512691

 




INFORMATION 28
JULY 1962

FARMER COOPERATIVE SERVICE
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

Joseph G. Knapp, Administrator

The Farmer Cooperative Service
conducts research studies and service
activities of assistance to farmers in
connection with cooperatives engaged
in marketing farm products, purchasing
farm supplies, and supplying business
services. The work of the Service re-
lates to problems of management, or-
ganization, policies, financing, mer-
chandising, product quality, costs,
efficiency, and membership.

The Service publishes the results
of such studies; confers and advises
with officials of farmer cooperatives;
and works with educational agencies,
cooperatives, and others in the dis-
semination of information relating to
cooperative principles and practices.

.—————-—

This publication is based on re-
search findings developed under the
Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946
(RMA, TITLE II). \

 

 




Contents

What are handling facilities?--—-
Why make a safety-check? -----

Things to 100k for in
safety-checking ______________

Obvious hazards _________
Hidden dangers ——————————
Some special considerations —---

Ways to make an adequate
safety-check _______________

Check points for safety ---------

Page

5
5
'7

8

9

13

 

 




Safety-Checking

Handling Facilities

To Reduce Livestock Losses

by Joseph E. Rickenbacker

Transportation Branch
Management Services Division

ihe livestock industry loses millions

of dollars each year when animals
are injured during handling and trans—
portation. Farmer Cooperative Service
found that bruise damage alone, dis-
covered at time of slaughter, probably
amounts to over $25 million a year.
Injuries can occur during other periods
of movement. This may cause similar
losses if the animals go "off feed," for
instance.

Many bruise injuries are associated
with facilities used in handling live-
stock. In a study of loss and damage to
hogs, losses ran about 30 percent higher
where facilities were inadequate, im-
proper, or in disrepair.

This publication is designed to help
farmers, ranchers, cooperatives and
other market agencies, and others in-
terested in the livestock industry to
evaluate their own livestock handling
facilities. Then corrections and im-
provements where necessary will help
the industry reduce handling losses.

 




 

 

What Are Handling. Facilities?

Handling facilities include almost
any structure or device used to move
livestock to market or the processing
plant, or totake care of animals. These
facilities exist in one way or another
wherever livestock are. On farms and
ranches facilities may be extremely
limited and quite simple. In stock-
yards and packing plants they are num-
erous and often quite complicated.

They are mobile as well as station-
ary. They may be used to control
animals or to limit available space.
Handling facilities may help people
carry out special operations needed
in marketing or processing livestock.

Strictly speaking, these special-
ized facilities are more closely
associated with transportation. Con-
siderations of these vehicles from the
standpoint of damage-free movement
of livestock are of such importance
that they should be treated separately.
Here we will deal only with stationary
handling facilities.

A simple pen is the most common
form of livestock handling facility.
Next is a group of pens. Connecting
passageways and alleys are another
important handling facility.

Structures to help load or unload
animals are important, too. This

 

 




 

4’

 

Stairsteps facilitate loading animals into
vehicles for over-the-road movement. This
stairstep chute has solid sides which
prevent the hogs from being distracted
by outside factors during loading. The
level platform at the to enables animals
to enter the truck easi y.

type of facility is usually a loading
chute but frequently includes docks
or platforms and catch-pens.

Pens, alleys, and chutes -- general

handling facilities -- are found on
farms, ranches, in feedlots, at sales

3

 




 

barns, at railroad stations, at country
buying points, in stockyards, and in
packing plants. Other specialized fa-
cilities may be used at a limited num-
ber of places or for only one function.
Examples include scales at concentra-
tion points, squeeze chutes for use in
treating an animal or examining it
under restraint, or specialized facil-
ities at packing plants such as spray
pens, the knocking box, and the like.

Loss and damage from injury occur
with both the common type and the
specialized facilities. Properly plan-
ned, soundly constructed, and well-
maintained facilities of any type go a
long way toward insuring damage-free
handling of livestock in any handling
phase--sorting, loading, unloading,
yarding, slaughtering.

Why Make a Safety-Check?

FCS found that the average cost of
a bruise was about 76 cents a head on
cattle, 39 cents on lambs, and 34 cents
on hogs. Since bruises often result
from handling through stationary fa-
cilities, if these facilities were free
of hazards, bruise loss would drop.
Safety-checking facilities, then, is good
business. It is economically sound.

Not all handling facilities are care-
fully planned. Many of them have "just
grown." While individual sections of a
facility may be adequate and safe, col-
lectively they may be complicated and
hazardous.,

4

 




 

 

Facilities deteriorate. Many are
exposed to the weather. Others are
often subject to use that helps cause
deterioration.

Things To Look For in
Safety-Checking

From the standeint of safety, things
to look for in a handling facility fall
into two general categories. First is
the condition of the facility itself.
Second are the more elusive hazards
that arise through the actual use of the
facility in handling the livestock. The
first category includes such things as
condition of fences, inclines, docks,
and the like. The other category covers
layouts or facility arrangements and
how they influence safe movement and
handling.

Obvious Hazards

Many livestock facilities can be
made safe by correcting hazardous
conditions that are obvious. Usually
these hazards can be eliminated with-
out spending large amounts of either
time or money.

The average livestock handler
knows most of these hazards. For
example, shaky or unsound floors are
unsafe. Sharp-pointed projections in
narrow passageways can cause injury
if run into in a hurry. Gates or doors
left standing ajar are an open invitation
to injury.

 

 

 

 




 

Each part of a facility should be
carefully checked for any condition
that could contribute to livestock in-
jury. This includes examining sides,
floors, gates, ramps, inclines, chutes
and crossovers, and checking equip-
ment within the facility (such as feed
and water troughs). Animal hairs or
wool sticking to a part of the facility
or some part —- such as a post --
rubbed smooth will often show that
bruise injury occurred there. A metal
hasp brightly polished is proof enough
that passing animals have been bruised
by striking against it. The fastener
should be moved higher than the critical
area.

Besides actual structural defects,
there may be other hazards. For
example, material left lying around
in alleys and pens is a danger.
Outside approaches to loading chutes
may be such that the bed of the
truck does not line up with the
platform or dock, forcing animals
to jump up or down into the
vehicle.

At the end of this publication are
some check points for safety that
livestock handlers can use in
checking their facilities for ob—
vious hazards and safety defects.
These check points can be used with
equal effectiveness at farm feedlots,
auctions or railroad stockyards, or
in the applicable sections of large
public stockyards and packing
plants.

6




$54!;

'-*I

 

Hidden Dangers

Whether or not livestock really
"think" is a moot question, but evidence
shows they have preferences or dis-
positions toward specific handling con-
ditions and practices. The layout of a
given facility should recognize and
utilize the animals' dispositions and
inclinations during movement. Plan- V
ning layouts to make full use of this
"follow-the—leader" instinct will-pay
dividends.

The more complex the arrangement
of pens and alleys, the greater the like-
lihood of injury to animals moving
through the facility. Straight lines and
level walkways seem safest. Stairs are

 

The entrance to this scale house presents
a really hazardous situationo-note the
raised sill running clear across the
entrance. Observe the "pocket" just in-
side the scale house. A hog or I
caught here isn't likely to escape some
bruise damage.

 

 

 

 




 

apparently preferable to cleated in-
clines. Abrupt changes in direction
frequently result in bewilderment and
can cause pileups at critical points
and injury.

The way to safety-check for these
hidden dangers is to observe live-
stock going through the facility. More
than one observation may be neces-
sary before the facility can be
thoroughly evaluated. The operator
can never be sure his facility really
works until it has been safety-checked
this way.

Some Special Considerations

For complete appraisal, operation
of the facility should also be con-
sidered. Don't forget these factors:

1. Weather. — Judge the facility on
the basis of all types of weather likely
to occur when animals move through
the facility. What might be a safe
condition in dry, warm weather might
be dangerous during rain or cold with
ice and snow.

2. Speciesiof Animal. - A single
species may use'the facility exclusively,
or all species may use it at one time
or another. If the latter is true, each
of the species using the facility must
be considered in making the safety
check. As an example, fasteners on
gates will have to be higher if cattle
occasionally use the facility than if
only hogs or sheep use it.

 

 




 

3. Capacity. - The number of
animals likely to use the facility from
time to time must be considered. The
maximum number of animals of each
of the species likely to use it should
be determined and the evaluation made
on this basis.

4. Handling Personnel. - There is
some merit to the saying, "A facility
is no better than the people who use it."
Experienced handlers can often mine
imize hazardous and unsafe situations
in facilities and equipment. Equally
true, intempe rate or impatient handlers
can create unsafe situations and make
a hazard from an otherwise safe condi-
tion. A proper evaluation should in-
clude a careful judgment of the han-
dling ability and temperament of those
who will direct the livestock through
the facility.

 

Ways To Make an Adequate
Safety-Check

As we said, in many cases afacility
can be adequately checked by care-
fully inspecting the construction and.
condition of the equipment itself. This
involves looking for obvious defects
and hazards. Generally, such an in-
spection will be adequate for facilities
of a limited size, such as a small farm
feedlot or perhaps a one- or two-pen
country concentration point, or when
only one section or part of a larger
facility is to be evaluated.

The list of check points for safety
at the end of the publication provides

9

 

 

 




 

 

Acommon hazard at many loading facilities
is illustrated here. Note how the drive
area is worn and "dug out" where the drive
meets the chute. The bed of the truck
probably could not line up with the chute,
forcing animals to ‘5‘ump down or step up

into the vehicle his is particularly
dangerous here because the platform is
not level at the end of the chutes.

a good working tool to use in making
a safety-check of this type.

Using this technique alone in larger
or more complicated facilities is not
recommended because it does not give
consideration to the elusive factors
occurring there.

It is not hard to evaluate large or *
complex facilities. The important
thing is to evaluate each of the parts
and then to determine safe handling
on an overall basis. This can be done
by using a simple diagram of the layout
and Observing the movement of live—
stock at various points throughout the
facility. This is supplemented by the
inspection of various parts on the same
basis as is done in the simple con—

struction check.

10

 

 




 

The chart on page 12 illustrates how
to use this diagram method. On a simple
piece of graph paper draw the general
outline of the facility to scale. This
need not be done in exact detail, but it
should be accurate enough to provide
_ for proper analysis of movement and
to use in marking critical areas.

Keep the diagram as simple and
uncluttered as possible.

Use a scale which will allow for
legible noting of hazards.

Make the observations from a suf-
ficient number of points to give acom-
plete picture of traffic patterns.

Be sure to observe carefully the
, critical areas —- chutes, corners, and

turns.

Don't forget to include the "special
considerations" listed on page 8.

ll

 

 




 

 

This scale diagram of‘an actual hog buyin sta—
tion shows how asimple chart of a facili§y can
be made for use in a safety-check. Using graph
akes it easy to draw to scale. In this
chart, 1/10 inch represents 2 feet. The chart
and a note pad are all that is needed to make
the check. Parts of the facility are labeled
for reference. Hazards can be noted and then
marked on the diagram to correspond to the
actual location. (1--split side rail in pen
"E", 2——splintered cleat at top of loading chute,
etc.). Using the chart and observing movement
at various points will help locate the "hidden
dangers" related to hazards and unsafe situa—
tions obvious only during livestock movements.

12

 




 

Check Points for Safety

Nails, Bolts, Fasteners, and Hasps
[3 Are they driven in or recessed?

E] Do any show signs of wear because
of animals rubbing against them?

E] Are they shiny or is animal hair
sticking to them?

E] Are those that can't be recessed
out of the way of passing livestock?

E] Do the fasteners work?

Railings, Slats, Posts, Sides, and Fences
[:I Are they solid and Secure ?

E] Are any splintered or split?

[3 Do splintered places have hair or
wool sticking to them?

E] Are corners rounded or protected?

Pens and Alleys

D Are they clear and open - no lumber,
wire, tools, or other material left
lying around?

D Are they clean as well as sound?

D Are "pockets" cut off or protected?

D Are floors and surfaces in good
repair?

13

 




 

 

[:1 How about slick or slippery spots

in alleys and pens ?

B Is the layout such that animals

aren't confused or bewildered? If
it's complicated, is there any easy
way to make it simple ?

[3 Are there provisions to take care

of emergency hazards - sand for
slippery spots, extra straw, and
the like ?

Chutes, Stairs, Ramps, Docks,
andlncHnes

E] Are they good and solid - not shaky

or rickety ?

[:l Are the sides in good repair? Are

14

they such that outside distractions
are minimized when the facility is
used? If not, can this be remedied
without too much trouble or cost?

Is there an outside ramp for the
handler to use in loading so he can
get to the traffic jam wherever it is
in the chute ?

Are the cleats clean and in good re-
pair - not worn, split, or Splintered?
Are any missing?

Are platforms and docks. wide
enough? Is there promsmn to
protect animals so they can't fall

or escape ?

Are crossovers in good shape:
IS there a place to put them out o
the way when not in use ?

 




 

B Is the drive or exterior approach
good? Can a truck back up with the
bed even with the dock?

Gates
C] Do they swing freely - no sagging?

I] Do they have good solid construc-
tion with no split rails?

E] Are the edges rounded or protected?

U DO the fasteners work? Are they up
out of the way?

[:1 Is there a way to fasten the gate
open as well as closed?

Scales, Feeding Facilities,
and Covered Pens

E] Are the scales easy to reach and can
animals get on'and off easily? If
not, can they be rearranged better?

E] Are the scales clean?

[:1 Are feed and water troughs in good
repair? Are they set up the best
way? Do they interfere with traffic
when animals are moved or sorted?

C] Is the roof of covered areas in good
repair? (A leaky roof is almost
worse than no roof - if there weren't
any, other safeguards would be
taken.)

E] Are there standby facilities and
equipment for use in emergencies?
Are they handy?

 

 

 




 

Other Publications Available

The following publications give de-
tailed reports on much of the research
on which this publication is based. De-
tailed explanations of safety-checking
techniques are also contained in some
of these publications.

Loss and Damage to Livestock in
Transit in Midwestern and Western
States. Marketing Research Re-
port 247. Joseph E. Rickenbacker.

Causes of Losses in Trucking Live-
stock. Marketing Research Re-
port 261. Joseph E. Rickenbacker.

Handling Conditions and Practices
Causing Bruises in Cattle. Market-
ing Research Report 346. Joseph E.
Rickenbacker.

Loss and Damage in Handling and
Transporting Hogs. Marketing Re-
search Report 447. Joseph E.
Rickenbacker.

Losses From Handling Sheep and
Lambs. Marketing Research Report
544. Joseph E. Rickenbacker.

A copy of these publications may be
obtained upon request while a supply

is available from -—

Information Division .
Farmer Cooperative Serv1ce
U. S. Department of Agriculture
Washington 25, D. C.

~646260

/

‘ 20
c U 5 GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE. 196

 

 

U.S. GO
I‘l.‘ .11C’ \ t C) x

‘ ' ' .C.
Printing Ofﬁce. Washington 25, D

 




arketing Research Report 544
July T962

LOSSES

from handling

sheep and lambs

by Joseph E. Rickenbacker

FARMER COOPERATIVE SERVICE 0 U. 5. DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

 




 

Farmer Cooperative Service
United States Department of Agriculture
Washington 25, D, C.

Joseph G. Knapp, Administrator

The Farmer Cooperative Service conducts research studies and
service activities of assistance to farmers in connection with coopera-
tives engaged in marketing farm products, purchasing farm supplies,
and supplying business services. The work of the Service relates to
problems of management, organization, policies, financing, merchan-
dising, product quality, costs, efficiency, and membership.

The Service publishes the results of such studies; confers and
advises with officials of farmer cooperatives; and works with educational
agencies, cooperatives, and others in the dissemination of information
relating to cooperative principles and practices.

This study was conducted under authority of the Agricultural
Marketing Act of 1946 (RMA, Title II).

Acknowledgments

Acknowledgment is made to the Cudahy Packing Co., Armour &

Company, and. Wilson & Company for their cooperation in arranging
for the test Sh1pments involved in this study. I

D The help and cooperation of Livestock Conservation, Inc., the
enver Livestock Conservation Association, the Omaha Livestock
Conservation Assomation, and the various public stockyards and

concentration points in Iowa Nebraska -
Col
also gratefully acknowledged.) ’ orado, and Minnesota are

 

 

 

 

 




Contents

W», ._‘,<» .

Summary _______________________________________

 

Project methods ________________________________
l Market level losses _____________________________
Dead loss ————-—-; ___________________________
Condemnation loss ___________________________
Bruise loss __________________________________
SpeCifiC loss findings _________________________
Two special loss conditions ___________________
Transportation and handling factors _______________
Mode of transport ____________________________
Lengths-of-haul ______________________________

Carcass grade _______________________________

Handling conditions and practices ______________

 

 

Page
iv
2
4
4
4
5
5
9
11

11 l
12
14

15

 




 

 

Summary

osses occurring at the market level

during transporting and handling
sheep and lambs for marketing and pro-
cessing averaged 12.75 cents a head in
'78 slaughter tests. Over 14,000 head of
sheep and lambs were involved in these
tests. On a nationwide annual basis, this
would amount to almost $2 million, using
average prices in the 6-year period, 1954-
1959, inclusive.

Seven packing plants in four mid—
western States cooperatedin these slaugh-
ter tests, a part of the research on
transportation and handling of sheep and
lambs conducted by Farmer Cooperative
Service. This research, covering a
16-month period beginning in 1960, con-
tinued the series of studies dealing with
livestock loss and damage begun by FCS
in 1954 to help farmers andtheir coopera-
tives deal with this problem.

In addition to cooperation by packers,
the research had the active cooperation
and participation of Livestock Conserva-
tion, Inc., and of producers, marketers,
and transporters.

To arrive at the total loss figure, we
considered losses from death in transit;
condemnation of carcasses, organs, or
"parts; and carcass bruise damage. Almost
50 percent of the total loss was attributed
to condemnations -- a relatively higher
percentage of condemnation loss than in
any other species studied. The remaining
half of the 12.75 cents a head was divided
between bruise loss and death loss, with
bruise loss roughly twice the greater.

iv

These losses became more significant
on the basis of carcass weight of sheep
and lambs compared with that of hogs
or cattle. Thus, the loss was 12.75 cents
on about 45 pounds of lamb and only twice
as much on 158 pounds of pork, with the
difference on beef even greater.

The test lots originated in the principal
producing areas of the West or at feedlots
in the Corn Belt. Lots were selected to
provide various grades, types, andweights
of animals moving by different modes of
transportation from a variety of geo-
graphical areas to nearby and distant
slaughtering points.

The dead—on-arrivals in the test ship-
ments amounted to 16.45 animals per
10,000 head. This figure might be some—
what low in View of the timing of the tests.
Losses from death in transit usually run
highest during the winter and early spring,
while these tests were conducted from
September to mid-December. The loss
was significant, however, since it
amounted to $2.19 per hundred head.

Pneumonia caused about 30 percent of
the loss from condemnations, with arthri-
tis and uremia also major causes. Just
under 10 percent of the loss resultedfrom
carcass bruise injury. Over 14 percent
of all the livers of animals in the test
loads were condemned because of worms
or parasites -- the largest loss area
from condemnations.

TWO Special causes of condemna-
tion were of grave concern -- caseouS

 

 




 

 

lymphadenitis and emaciation in the case
of ewes, and damage to tissue or parts of
many sheep and lambs by awns or stickers
of various grasses such as wild oats,
foxtail, and needle grass. These special
conditions were related to husbandry
practices but constituted a major loss at
the market level.

Hind legs had the largest number of
bruises requiring trimming away of tissue.
Likewise, a higher percentage of total
devaluation loss on carcasses was related
to leg bruises. The cost of each leg
bruise was figured as 43 cents, as com—
pared with a cost of 19 cents for shoulder
bruises. A disproportionate number of
bruises on the neck occurred because of
changes in slaughter procedures andtech-
niques in the industry at the time of the
tests. The number of bruises of this
type, associated with slaughter, declined
as employees gained proficiency in the
new techniques.

Some differences existed between mar-
ket level losses in rail and truck ship-
ments. Death loss was about 50 percent
higher on rail shipments, but bruise loss
was twice as high on truck shipments.
Comparing results was complicated by
the disparity in lengths-of—haul between
the two types of carriers, with rail ship—
ments moving almost three times as far
as truck shipments.

In length-of—haul tests, ‘the loss rate
was $9.67 per 100 head on shipments
moving under 300 miles, but was $19.26
on those shipments moving 300 to 600
miles and remained relatively high,
$16.52, in the next 300-mile block. The
same sort of relationship prevailed when
in-transit shrink was related to distance
hauled. Based on the same mileage blocks
used in analyzing loss rates (300 miles),
shrink rose from 3 percent to 5.5 per-

cent and then to 7.5 percent.

Overall losses were almost equal on
lambs grading Choice and Good. There
were too few Prime lambs in the tests
for valid analysis. The loss on ewes,
however, was about six times higher than
on lambs. Lighter weight sheep and lambs
suffered higher losses in all categories
than did heavier animals. This relation-
ship was true for the few Primes in the
tests.

The record of handling on test ship-
ments, supplemented by the general sur-
veys and observations, showed a relation—
ship between loss and damage from bruis—
ing and certain handling practices and
conditions.

While stationary facilities were gener-
ally good at most points, loss occurred
from carelessness in placing cross—overs
between stationary and mobile facilities,
allowing for slips and falls. Likewise,
the increase in triple-deck trucks posed
a problem since facilities at most yards
and plants were not equipped to handle
this type vehicle and makeshift measures
did not provide safe handling. Some yards
are now installing special facilities to
handle triple-deck trucks. “

The major hazard on railroad stock
cars was broken or split side rails
hanging or protruding in the car. Less
than 5 percent of the cars had defective
floors.

In over two-thirds of the trucks with
cripples or deads on arrival at a major
concentration point, certain loss—
associated conditions prevailed. These
loss conditions were improper loading
(generally overcrowding); improper or
inadequate bedding; ventilation that was
too much, too little, or poorly and

V

 

 




 

 

dangerously controlled or directed; and
abusive handling. This last condition
existed in 56 percent of the loss loads.

We observed abusive use of persuaders
(sticks, canes, whips, and the like) in
three-fourths of the trucks arriving with
dead or crippled animals. Other types
of abuse were kicking by handlers; forcing
or hurrying animals excessively, resulting
in pile-ups, slips, and falls; making lambs
jump from upper decks or throwing them
out of the truck to "start the load off";
lifting by the wool, and pulling lambs
out of the truck by a leg.

In two-thirds of the cases where han-
dling abuse was noted, we observed two
or more of these abuses. Virtually all
handling abuse was associated with efforts
to hurry the unloading of the vehicle.
Unfortunately, the opposite result was
usually the case; It actually took longer
to unload the truck than would have been
required otherwise. While we have been
discussing results of a truck survey,

vi

many of these abuses also occurred to
some degree in rail shipments.

Improving the handling of sheep and
lambs during marketing and processing.
could reduce loss and damage and result
in increased income to the various seg—
ments of the industry. Improved handling
on ranges, farms, and feedlots could also
help, particularly in reducing some con-
demnation loss.

Handlers who like a particular species
usually manage those animals best. This
was particularly true of sheep and
lambs.

However, good handling can be given
by those who understand and appreciate
the peculiarities of the species. Again,
this is especially true of sheep and lambs.
The follow the leader instinct, so obvious
in this species, may be regarded. as
stupidity by indifferent handlers. Other
handlers will use this trait to help them
manage their animal charges.

 




 

Losses From Handling Sheep and Lambs

by Joseph E. Rickenbacker,

Transportation Branch
ﬂanagement Services Division

ach year the livestock industry loses

more than $50 million through loss
and damage to animals during handling
and transportation in marketing and pro-
cessing. Various segments of the live-
stock industry share these losses in whole
or in part at one time or another.

Livestock producers and their market-
ing cooperatives, an important segment
of the industry, are interested in more
efficient methods of marketing and pro—
cessing meat animals. One important
way to promote efficient marketing and
processing is to drastically reduce or
eliminate handling and transportation
losses.

To assist farmers and their coopera-
tives in dealing with this loss problem,
Farmer Cooperative Service began a
series of research studies on livestock
handling loss and damage in 1954. This
study is the latest in the series.l

Some recent studies dealt with the
relationship of various handling conditions

 

 

tComplete reports on the research done by Farmer

Cooperative Service are included in the list of

publications on the back cover of this report.

and practices to losses and identified
”loss-associated" conditions. These
studies also suggested how to improve
handling techniques and procedures.

Important savings can be made by
conforming to safe handling standards.

Interest in the commercial production
of sheep and lambs has declined in recent
years. An indication of this is provided
by the U. S. Department of Agriculture's
inventory of livestock on January leach
year which shows that the number of
sheep and lambs on farms in the United
States has declined from a high of over
56 million head in 1942 to less than
32 million head as of January 1, 1962.

No single reason can be given for this
major decline in the number of sheep
and lambs. But losses incurredinproduc-
ing, marketing, and processing sheep and
lambs have contributed to the decision
of many "to get out of the sheep and lamb
business.”

Efforts have been made to stimulate
demand for wool and to encourage and
increase the consumption of lamb and
mutton. While some success has been
obtained, the future would be brighter if
greater margins could be assured pro-
ducers, marketers, and processors, along

 




 

 

 

with lower prices for consumers. Reduc-
ing or eliminating handling and transporta—

attaining these goals. This study provides
information which could help the industry

tion losses would go a long way toward regain its vigor and prosperity.

Proiect Methods

In determining objectives, procedures,
and techniques used in this project, we
were guided by experience and the advice
and counsel of producers, marketers,
transporters, and packers. Principal
field work took place from September to
December 1960, with some follow-up in
the spring of 1961.

The seven cooperating slaughter plants
we selected were located in Nebraska,
Colorado, Iowa, and Minnesota. Plant
sizes ranged from a kill of 50 head an
hour to 250 head an hour.

Figure 1 indicates the origin points
of livestock shipments. Their diversifi-
cation gave us an adequate sample of sheep
and lambs from the major producing areas
of the country. ’

The "market level” losses we con-
sidered in this project were those which
became apparent or could be assessed
only when the animals were marketed.
These losses included death and crippling
in transportation and handling, carcass
bruise damage, condemnations, and loss
due to shrink.

We successfully completed 78 test
loads, at least 9 in each of the cooperating
plants.

Work done at the slaughtering plants
was designed to establish rates of loss,
the economic significance of the loss,
and the possible relationships of various

2

market level losses to general transporta-
tion factors.

At each plant, test lots included those
moving by rail and by truck, lots originat-
ing at a variety of geographic locations,
and lots representing various types of
animals, both as to weight and grade,
feedlot- and range-feds, and lambs and
ewes.

To establish the prevailing practices
in handling and transporting sheep and

lambs, we spent considerable time in
observing movements through various
facilities including stockyards, buying

stations, packing plants, and auction mar-
kets. This included carefully observing
movement of animals over the scales,
through complexes of alleys and pens,
from holding pens to slaughter areas,
and during sorting and showing in
commission pens and alleys in public
yards.

Because of the importance of careful
handling during loading and unloading
from vehicles, we ran a complete truck
survey at one major lamb center with
detailed observations as to the condition
of the vehicles themselves as well as
the handling given the animals. We con-
ducted similar surveys at other points
on a more limited scale. Virtually every
handling phase fell under the Scrutiny
of the project leader at one time or

another during the test period or during
the follow-up period.

 

 




 

 

 

NINA
12 TESTS

1 Plant

NEBR.
35 TESTS

3 Plants

Origins and Destinations of 78 Test Shipments of
Sheep and Lambs Slaughtered at

7 Cooperating Packing Plants

 

COLD.
19 TESTS

2 Plants

 

 

Figure]

 




 

Market Level Losses

Generally the best way to state loss
and damage for comparative purposes is
to convert the losses into dollars and
cents. We have followed this procedure
in this study, as in previous studies in
the series. The methods used in the
current study for establishing monetary
estimates at the market level are explained
in the sections that follow.

Dead Loss

This term includes those animals which
arrived at the packing plant already dead
or those which died in the yards or holding
pens before slaughter. Since these had
not been processed, we used current live
prices to determine their value rather
than prices prevailing for meat. We
averaged prices at the Chicago market
over a 6-year period, 1954 through 1959,
inclusive, and weighted averages on the
basis of the total number of sheep and
lambs slaughtered under Federal inspec-
tion in those years. On this basis the
average price for lambs was $21.56 a
hundredweight and the average price for
ewes $5.86 a hundredweight.

With these figures as the monetary
factor, we used the average live weight
of animals in the test load as the weight
factor and multiplied the two to produce
the total death loss. For example, if the
average live weight was 100 pounds, each
animal that died in transit or in the
company yards represented a loss of
$21.56. If the animal had been a ewe,
the loss would, of course, have been
$5.86. This method of calculating pro-
vided a fairly close estimate of the actual
loss.

4

Condemnation Loss

Where an entire carcass was con-
demned, we used the same method of loss
calculation as for dead loss; that is, live
weight times average live price. However,
in.many instances only parts or a portion
of the animal were condemned, such as
hearts and livers or actual primal cuts
of the carcass such as shoulders, legs,
and racks. In these cases we figured
the condemnation loss on the basis of
carcass meat price rather than live price.

The prices we used were an average
of the Chicago wholesale price for lambs
for the period 1956 through 1959, inclu—
sive, on the basis of weight and grade.
The regular U. S. Department of Agri-
culture grades were used -- that is,
Good, Choice, and Prime, with three
weight divisions in the two higher grades,
light, medium, and heavy. The Good
grade carried a single weight, or all-
weight, price. In the case of ewes we
determined that a price fixed at two-
thirds the value of meat graded Good
would be sufficiently accurate.

Meat prices used in this study ranged
from approximately 39 cents a pound for
Choice lamb to a high of 43 cents a pound
for lightweight Prime lambs. We estab—
lished the value for livers and hearts by
consulting with packer representatives
who indicated that the average weight Of
livers was approximately 1 pound and the
weight of hearts approximately 0.28 pound. _

We further determined that the value
of hearts and livers would be approxi—
mately one-half the average prices for
grades Good through Prime, with a similar
rate holding for livers and hearts Of

 

 

 




 

 

ewes. Thus the value of livers was fixed
at 21 cents each, hearts 6 cents, ewe
livers 13 cents, and ewe hearts 3 cents.

Bruise Loss

Bruise loss included both the loss.

represented by the value of the trimmed
away tissue and the carcass devaluation

resulting from the trim. We also deter-‘

mined the value of the trimmed tissue
by multiplying the weight of the trim
times the carcass price of the meat for
a lamb or sheep of a given weight and
grade.

The devaluation loss was determined
by representatives of the packing concern
whose experience in the meat trade enabled
them to estimate the amount of discount
the packer would have to take in order
to dispose of the carcass. Usually this
loss was stated in so many cents or
fractions of a cent a pound, and the loss
on a given animal determined by multi—
plying this loss factor times the dressed
weight of the animal.2

Specific Loss Findings.

There were 14,589 head of sheep and
lambs in the 78 tests conducted in the
7 cooperating slaughtering plants. The
three classes of market level losses in
this study amounted to $1,859.41 on these
test animals.

On the basis of total 1961 federally—
inspected slaughter, this loss rate pro-

2In some cases parts of a carcass, and in one case
an entire carcass, were condemned because of bruise
damage. These losses are shown under the headlng
0f "condemnation loss" rather than "bruise loss"
in the tables and text of this study.

jected nationwide would amount to $1.9
million a year. This compares with a
nationwide annual loss of approximately
$22.6 million for hogs and more than $25
million for cattle.

This seeming disparity between the
species is modified somewhat if one
considers the relationship of carcass-
weights. If this is done, then the loss
on sheep and lambs is more nearly in
line with the other two species.

The breakdown of the total loss figure
on the basis of various categories of
market level loss is shown in table 1.
This loss amounted to $12.75 per hundred
head, with about 50 percent of the total
losses falling into the category of con-
demnation loss and with another one-third

 

These carcasses show the result of bruise
damage. Note the trimmed places on the rack
and loin. Even a relatively small trim can
result in substantial economic loss since
the entire carcass must be reduced in price
before it will be accepted in the meat trade.

 




 

 

 

Table 1. -— Market level loss per 100 head
of sheep and lambs in 78 test shipments

 

Loss per 100

head

 

Cause of loss

 

Death in transit $2.19

Post-slaughter condemnation
Whole carcasses $2.90

 

Carcass parts 3.47 6.37
Carcass bruise damage
Trimmed tissue .37
Devaluation 3.82 4.19
All causes 12.75

and winter, we might have had higher
losses because of death in transit. Cer-
tainly, earlier FCS studies indicated that
death losses were considerably higher in
cold weather, particularly from December
through March. The significance of the
death loss figure established in this study
lay in the fact that even though the loss
rate for 10,000 head appeared low, it
still amounted to $2.19 on every 100 head
of sheep and lambs marketed.

Condemnation Loss

 

of the total figure represented by loss
due to carcass injury resulting in bruises.

The relationship of the various loss
categories to total loss was different for
sheep and lambs from the relationship
for cattle and hogs. Inthese other species
the bruise factor was considerably more
important and the death loss greater than
losses due to condemnations.

A closer look at the specific categories
of market level loss justifies some addi-
tional observations.

Death Loss

Out of over 14,000 animals in the tests
a total of 24 were dead on arrival at the
packing plant or died immediately after
receipt. This represented a death loss
Of 16.45 animals per 10,000 head. Although
this might not appear to be an excessive
figure, it was considerably higher than
the death loss rate on previous FCS
studies.

Death losses were influenced signifi-
cantly by adverse weather conditions --
extreme heat or extreme cold. If we
had run this series of tests over a longer
period of time involving both summer

6

 

Condemnation loss was broken into
two categories -— condemned carcasses
and condemned parts (table 1). Of the
total loss, carcasses accounted for 45
percent and parts, including organs, about
55 percent. Table 2 shows the various
causes of condemnation and their relative
significance, both on the basis of parts
and carcass condemnation. In this presen—
tation, condemned organs such as livers
and hearts were not included although
they were included in the total condemna-
tion loss figures in table 1.

Just as for hogs, the greatest single
cause of condemnation was pneumonia.
As for hogs again, a relationship existed
between the incidence of this disease and
handling, both from the standpoint of
adverse weather and stress conditions.
Although not every case of pneumonia
was a result of improper handling or of
conditions existing during handling and
transportation incident to marketing, such
a relationship frequently existed and
should be considered.

The relationship between handling and
transportation and some of the other
causes of conde mnation was more tenuous,
but again we could not rule out such
relationship, particularly where animals
were in transit for longer periods of

 

 

 




 

Table 2. ~ Loss per 100 head due tr) condemnation of carcasses enui parts of carcasses
(excluding livers and hearts and sticker grass infestation) by cause of condemnation

 

 

 

 

 

 

mama... on Wham Peraizziaztal’
Pneumonia $0.03 $0.96 $0.99 29
Arthritis .19 .31 .50 15
Caseouslymphadenitis .03 1.46 .49 14
Uremia - .43 .43 12
Emac iat ion - 2 . 33 .33 10
Bruises .16 .13 .29 9
Hemorrhage/
inflammation .01 .13 .14 4
Cystitis - .14 .14 4
Abscess .06 - .06 2
Other .02 - .02 1
Total .50 2.89 3.39 100

 

 

 

iAll loss due to this cause occurred on ewes. Loss rate per 100 head of ewes only was $18.07-
“All loss due to this cause occurred on ewes. Loss rate per 100 head of ewes only was $12.88. ,

time or where stress conditions were
severe. Unusual circumstances and
adverse factors might aggravate a con-
dition to the critical point.

By far the most important single loss
from condemnation occurred with livers.
Approximately 14 percent of all the livers
in the test lots were condemned for
parasitic infestation, worms, or ab-
scesses. The actual loss from condemned
livers amounted to $2.91 per 100 head.
While we could not associate this major
market level loss directly with handling
and transportation incident to marketing,
it did involve handling from the standpoint
of animal care. A loss area of this
importance deserves the closest attention
of producers.

Fifty-seven parts or portions of the
carcass (other than organs) were con-
demned for various reasons indicated in
table 2. Of these, 37 were legs, 12 ribs
and shoulders, with shanks, lOins, and
the like, accounting for the remainder.
The major cause of leg condemnation

was arthritis. Bruises accounted for
around 20 percent of the condemned legs.

Bruise Loss

 

Table 3 shows bruise loss per 100
head by carcass location, both in cash
and in percentage of total bruise loss.
As indicated earlier, these figures did
not include the value of parts condemned
because of bruises. However, both the

Table 3.-—Bruise loss per 100 head and re-
lation to total loss (H1 test sheep and
lambs by carcass location

 

 

 

 

 

C B . 1 Relation to
arcass ru1se 055 total bruise
location per 100 head loss

Percent

Leg $1.15 27.4
Shoulder -34 8-1
Rack .70 16.7
Loin .61 14.6
Other 1.39 33.2
4.19 100.0

 

 




 

value of the trimmed tissue and the amount
of carcass devaluation were included.

The breakdown of bruise loss on the
basis of carcass location, as shown in
table 3, conformed fairly well to previous
findings on other species. Hindquarters
or legs again accounted for a major
portion of the total loss, but it was not
nearly as significant for sheep and lambs
as it was for hogs, where the ham accounted
for about 65 percent of the total bruise
loss, or for cattle where the loin or hip
area likewise accounted for about two-
thirds of the total loss. The catchall
category, "other," included shanks and
necks for the most part.

In the tests involved in this study,
neck bruises accounted for the greatest
percentage Of the loss classified as
”other." This particular loss was probably
not truly representative, in that at the
time these tests were being conducted the
slaughterers were changing slaughter
methods. Employees had to become
familiar with new techniques and pro-
cedures and this, as a consequence,
reduced their efficiency in handling ani-
mals at the time of kill. During the
study, as these new techniques became
the regular method of slaughter, the

decline resulted in the number of neck
bruises at the various plants.

Table 4 presents an analysis of the
significance of bruise injury, insofar as
carcass location was concerned. This
table was based on the total number of
bruises on the carcass involving the
trimming away of tissue, weight of the
tissue, and the amount of devaluation
attributable to bruise injury at this par-
ticular carcass location.

For example, there were 440 bruise
trims from legs. This tissue weighed
24.75 pounds. A carcass devaluation loss
of $156.90 was attributed to bruise damage
to legs. Translated into terms used in
table 4, this meant that 27 percent of all
trim bruises was on the legs. This
trim was 19 percent of the total trim.
Legs accounted for 28 percent of the
devaluation loss from bruising, with each
leg bruised costing 43 cents. Table 4
illustrates rather dramatically the impor—
tance of even a single small bruise.

The relationship of trim loss to total
bruise loss illustrates especially well
the significance of any bruise injury.
For cattle and hogs, the value of the
trimmed away tissue represented about

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

employees gained dexterity. A marked 37 percent of the total loss from bruising.
Table 4. -— Significance of bruise damage by carcass location
Carcass location Total bruises Total weight Devaluation Cost per
of bru1se trimmed out trim tissue loss bruise
Percent Cents
Leg 27 19 28 43
Shoulder 17 12 8 19
Rack 19 14 17 33
Loin ll 13 15 50
Other 26 42 32 , 48
Whole carcass 100 100 100 39

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

However, for sheep and lambs, the
trimmed away tissue accounted for only
8.6 percent of the total bruise loss.
Thus, even a small bruise had special
significance.

On the basis of carcass location, the
relationship between trim loss and total

_ bruise loss is illustrated by the following

percentages for trim loss: Legs, 6.1per-
cent; shoulders, 12.9 percent; racks, 6.9
percent; loins, 7.5 percent; other, 10.9
percent. The importance of avoiding
any possible injury to legs and racks
is thus clearly indicated.

Two Special Loss Conditions3

In sheep and lambs two causes of
condemnations deserve special attention
because of their economic significance.
Since condemnation was a market level
loss, we felt that this report should
contain some discussion on caseous
lymphadenitis and condemnations from
conditions brought on by infestation of
the animal by wild oats, needle grass,
or other ”sticker" grasses. This latter
condition sometimes resulted in purulent
dermatitis. The former condition applied
particularly to ewes, although it could
appear in other types of animals. The
infestation was not related to the age or
sex of the animal.

Caseous lymphadenitis, also known as
pseudotuberculosis, is a chronic infectious
disease caused by a bacillus. The infec-
tion probably comes from eating contami-
nated feed or inhaling contaminated dusts.

3U: S' Department of Agriculture. Miscellaneous
Diseases of Sheep and Goats, Yearbook of Agri—
enltur‘e, Keeping Livestock Healthy. 1942.

 

Sometimes extensive portions of 52 carcass
must 1x3 cut away and "sent to the tank" as
unfit for human consumption because of dam-
age (ﬂ‘ disease resulting .h? condemnation.
Here a rib cage is being removed because of

internal injuries. A major cause for exw
tensive trim is Ikequently infestation of
the skin tn? "needle" (ﬂ‘ other forms of
"sticker grasses."

Perhaps in some instances it is due to
wound infections which might occur during
shearing, docking, and so forth. Obviously
this disease is associated with poor animal
care, as evidenced by insanitary con-
ditions.

Since the general health of the animal
is frequently not materially affected until
it is retired from breeding purposes,
presence of the disease within a flock
often goes undetected. However, it is
a major cause of condemnation under
Federal meat inspection regulations.
Where the disease has progressed exten—
sively, as is usually the case with ewes,
the entire carcass may be condemned.

9

 




 

 

 

As table 2 shows, in the tests con-
ducted under this study, this disease
accounted for 14 percent of total con-
demnation loss with all of the carcass
loss from this disease involving ewes.
The disease may result in condemning
parts of the carcass along the invasion
route of the infection, particularly those
parts closely associated with the lymph
nodes.

The market level loss from this disease
was extremely significant, particularly
with ewes. Control of it lies largely in
the hands of the producer. If producers
are to expect larger returns from the
sale of animals retiredfrom breeding,
they will need to reduce the likelihood
of these animals suffering from chronic
pseudotuberculosis.

The damage done by the invasion of
the skin of sheep and lambs by the
penetrating awns (stickers) or other parts
of grasses and other plants such as foxtail,
needle grass, wild oats, and the like,
constituted a major loss area at the mar-
ket level. As is so often the case in
bruise damage, this damage also was not
usually apparent until after the hide had
been removed.

In a way, this was a handling loss
because the animals picked up the awns
when they were on the range or inpasture.
Unfortunately many plants producing the
offending awns are also useful for feed
and forage at some time during their
life.

This, of course, means that it is
difficult to wage an all-out campaign to
eradicate these plants. It is simply
another case where careful handling is
called for. Keeping animals off the range
or pastures at the time the plants or
grasses are producing the stickers will

10

serve to eliminate the infestation and its
ill results.

A trip to the kill floor of a packing
plant will show the severity of loss which
can occur as a result of infestation. Not
only is the trim loss often substantial,

but it may be severe enough to cause ‘

the devaluation of every carcass affected.
Then, too, the stickers sometimes bring
about infection which can occur deep in
underlying muscles, leading to pyemia and
subsequent condemnation for this cause.

Many industry leaders said that this
particular loss was of greater significance
than the, loss from carcass bruise damage
at certain plants during certain times of
the year. Admittedly this problem will
be difficult to control, especially in areas
where animals have access to ranges of
great area. The problem will call for
the cooperation of producers and packers
alike.

Producers can help lick the problem
by good animal care, making sure to
observe the condition of ranges and pas-
tures and keeping their animals off them
during the critical period.

Packers can do their part by informing
producers of the presence of the infestation
in flocks when it is discovered at the
time of slaughter. This is not always
possible, as the flock may have passed
through several hands. But in those
cases where it‘is practical, such informa—
tion should be passed back to producers.
This is especially important since in many
western ranges the areas involved are
so large that policing them would be
almost impossible, particularly with the
careful scrutiny that might be necessary
to locate the offending plants. Packer
cooperation might well help pinpoint the
location of the affected area of the range.




Transportation and HandIing Factors

One major objective of this study was
to try to relate market level losses to
a number of handling and transportation
factors. Insofar as possible, we arranged
the various slaughter test lots and the
supplementary work in the handling and
movement at various concentration points
to facilitate such analysis.

Doing experimental research work
within the framework of day-to-day ope ra-
tions does not allow for the carefully
controlled conditions that prevail in
laboratories and hence does not yield
results as finely definitive. However,
the fact that such research is performed

. under the generally prevailing conditions

makes the results more realistic.

Mode of Transport

Market level losses are frequently
associated with the types of carriers or
modes of transport used in bringing the
animals from farms or ranches to market.
For many years, of course, this was
largely a rail movement. But beginning
in the late 1920's, truck shipments began
to increase and have continued to rise
at a steady pace until today approximately
80 percent of all receipts at public stock-
yards arrive by truck. The rails have
held on to a fairly good share of the
long-distance movement, particularly with
hogs moving to the West Coast or livestock
moving from the midwestern feeder area
to slaughter at East Coast and southern
points.

Comparing the loss rates between
these two types of transport was the
major point of inquiry in the first of the
FCS studies of losses in transit. That
study indicated the importance of such an

analysis and revealed that truck losses
were considerably higher than rail losses.
This was particularly true with some of
the species, including sheep.

Of the 78 test lots in this study,
16 were rail shipments and 62 truck.
On a head count basis, railroads moved
29 percent of the animals and trucks
71 percent. While this may appear to
be weighting the sample fairly high on

 

 

These fat lambs are loading into the rail-
road car easily and quickly with the use of

persuaders or "encouragement." This upper
deck chute has a moderate rise and smooth
sides; however, it would 1x: better without
the slight bend at the top. The side rails
of the lower deck chute need repair and the
posts in the rampway should [we eliminated
or rounded and protected.

11

l
t ‘ 4__t 4 ‘4...- V - “swatwr v

 
 

_ ._._._.—\v;2.r*..__e A I

 




 

 

 

 

 

the side of trucks, this percentage break-
down was not too far different from
prevailing transportation patterns. Sheep
and lambs move to a greater extent by
rail than any of the other species of
livestock.

As might be expected, rail shipments
involved greater lengths-of—haul than
truck shipments and for the most part
originated in range areas of the West.
We computed the length-of-haul of the
test shipments when possible. The average
length-of-haul of rail shipments was 718
miles while truck shipments moved
212 miles.

Considering all the various types of
market level losses, and without regard
to the type of sheep involved, we did not
find a great deal of difference in the loss
on shipments moving by the two types
of carriers. The dead loss was higher
on rail shipments by about 50 percent,
but bruise loss on truck shipments was
double that of the loss on rail shipments.
Condemnation loss was half again as high
on rail shipments over truck shipments.
The total loss was $14.07 per 100 head
on rail shipments and $12.23 on truck
shipments. However, we must look more
closely at two factors —- length-of-haul,
to be discussed later, and the type of
animals involved in the shipment.

Both types of carrier shipped ewes.
This must be considered in evaluating
any loss data. These animals were
generally in somewhat less than a hearty,
robust condition and, as has already
been noted, were subject to considerably
higher losses than lambs were. This
was particularly true of condemnation
loss. More than twice as many ewes
were moved by rail as by truck in this
study. If we look at the condemnation
rate of all shipments, including ewes,

12

made by rail, we find that it is approxi-
mately 57 percent higher than the con-
demnation loss suffered by truck ship-
ments. However, if we eliminate ewes
from both rail and truck shipments, then
we find that the condemnation loss by rail
exceeds truck loss by only 23 percent.

Ewes accounted for about 30 percent
of the condemnation loss on rail shipments
but for only about 10 percent of the con—
demnation loss on truck shipments. Thus,
losses on the test rail shipments would
have compared more favorably than those
on the truck shipments if there had been
an equal number of less desirable animals
involved, or if we eliminated ewes entirely.

Although the loss figures from the
data assembled in this study did not
reveal any startling relationship between
the type of carrier andloss rates, shippers
should take certain loss considerations
into account. These pertain to the actual
equipment and the handling procedures
and techniques involved in moving sheep
and lambs either by rail or truck. These
implications will be discussed at a later
point in this study.

Lengths-of-Haul

The livestock industry has long felt
that length-of—‘haul is a major considera-
tion in loss and damage and that losses
tend to rise as lengths—of—haul increase.
Various studies, including those by FCS:
have generally substantiated this point
of view. Length-of—haul not only has a
relationship to dead loss but is also
related to some condemnation losses and
to some extent to carcass damage from
bruising.

It is not always possible to have
complete and detailed information on all

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

of the factors present during loading
or sorting, stops in transit, and un-
loading. All of these can well have a
bearing on ultimate loss. About all that
can be done is to confine the analysis
on length-of-haul to a consideration of
mileage, with some reference to types
of carrier and weather conditions (if
available). I

The lengths-of-haul of the various
test shipments ranged from a low of
21 miles to ahigh of1,303 miles. Although
losses increased as length-of-haul
increased, after so—called ”mid-
distances“ were reached, losses began
to stabilize and to subsequently decline.

Qualified industry representatives
indicated that the possible reason for
leveling out of the loss rate after ”mid—
distances" were reached and for the
subsequent decline was the more careful
selection of those animals moving long
distances than of those marketed close
to home. This was also true for packer-
buyers making selections for various
plants, since they normally sorted pur-
chases into lots. If some animals did
not appear healthy, almost certainly they
were consigned to lots to be slaughtered
at the closest plant.

The fact that animals become accus-
tomed to changes in environment, even
as people do, was also generally accepted
as a possible reason for the leveling of
the loss rate at the "mid-distance"points.

Table 5 compares loss rates by
selected mileage blocks on the test ship-
ments. The table shows the percent of
total receipts in each of the blocks, the
percent of total market level loss on
those animals, and the loss per hundred
head calculated to include dead, condem-
nation, and bruise damage.

-AMW—ow '— A '

Table 5. - Total market level loss per 100
head of test sheep and lambs by length-
of-haul

 

 

 

 

 

 

Miles Total test Total test Loss per
hauled animals losses 100 head
Percent

0-300 40 28 $9.67
300-600 22 32 19.26
600-900 25 31 16.52
900-1,200 9 8 10.81
1,200-1,400 4 l 2.04
100 100 12.74

 

About 87 percent of the test animals
moved at distances falling in the first
three blocks; that is, mileages not more
than 900 miles distant from the point of
slaughter. A fairly good number, 9 per-
cent, fell in the next block of from 900 to
1,200 miles. Since only 4 percent moved
a greater distance, this small volume
probably should be considered in evaluat-
ing any results at the longer distance.

The general observations made earlier
were substantiated by the data shown in
table 5 —— that is, losses tended to
increase as length-of—haul increased, then
to stabilize and finally decline some.

While a comparison of length-of—haul
by type of carrier would have been of
added interest, such comparison was not
possible since the rail shipments were
almost entirely long distance shipments
while the majority of truck shipments
fell into the first two mileage blocks.

In-transit shrink is another loss factor
of considerable interest to the industry.
This is the difference in the weight of
the animal at the point of origin and the
weight at destination -- in this case, the
slaughtering point. Here again the
accepted rule is that shrink increases

13

 




 

 

 

 

as length-of-haul increases though not
at a constant rate and may tend to
stabilize at greater distances.

While FCS has not undertaken extensive
shrink studies up to this time, some
information has been obtained corollary
to previous studies and this general con-
clusion has been found to be true.

We were not able to obtain shrink data
on all the test shipments. However, we
obtained such data on a rather substantial
number of them and the results, as shown
in table 6, support previous findings.
Shrink increased from 3 percent in the
first mileage block to 7.5 percent on
those lots moving in excess of 900 miles.
The increase was progressive in the
early blocks, stabilizing as the distances
got greater. ,

Comparing shrink by type of carrier —-
rail versus truck shipments —— was not
practical both because of the lack of
available data on a sufficient number of
shipments and because of the disparity
in the lengths-of—haul between the two
modes of transport.

Within the limits set forth, the results
of this study bear out the positive relation-
ship between various types of loss and
increasing lengths-of-haul.

Table 6. ~ Average in—transit shrink of
test sheep and lambs by mileage blocks

 

Distance hauled Average shrink

 

Miles Percent
0-300 3.0
300-600 5.5
600-900 7.0
900-1,325 7.5

 

14

Carcass Grade

The study dealing with handling coh-
ditions and practices causing bruises in
cattle established a definite relation
between carcass grade and bruise loss.
In that study, dramatic increases in loss
occurred in the lower grade, with "stand-
ard" cattle sustaining losses approxi-
mately 3 1/2 times the loss sustained
on carcasses grading Choice. Since
packing plants have been using a grading
system for sheep and lambs in recent
years, we analyzed test data to see whether
any positive relationship between carcass
grade and the various forms of market
level loss could be established for sheep
and lambs.

Unfortunately, only two of the grades
were represented in sufficient volume to
allow for proper analysis. These are the
Choice and Good grades. Two test lots
of animals grading Prime accounted for
only a little over 2 percent of the total
number of animals in the tests. At the
other end of the scale ewes accounted
for about 3 percent of the test animals.
Thus, 95 percent of the test animals
graded either Choice or Good. This must
be recognized in analyzing test findings.

On an overall basis, the total market
level loss differed very little for animals
grading Choice and those grading Good.
The breakdown on a grade and loss
category basis is shown in table 7. This
table presents the data on the basis of
dollar loss per hundred head and also
gives the same information on the basis
of the percentage relationship t, of the
various types of loss to total loss.

\ The lower grade had higher loss from
death in transit and condemnation but the
bruise loss category was less than that

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Table 7. - Market level losses by type as related to Choice and Good lambs
Death loss Condemnation loss Bruise loss Total loss
Carcass iPerce t t
mo mo
head loss head loss” head loss head loss
Choice $1. 19 11 $4. 97 $4. 83 44 $10. 99 100
Good 2.47 23 5.41 3.01 27 10.89 100

 

of the Choice grade. The differences
between the two grades, while of interest,
did not have the same drama-tic impact
of the findings on the relation of grade
to‘cattle losses, but they might indicate
a relationship nonetheless. Using the
data from the test loads of ewes, we
found a positive relationship did exist,
for the dollar loss from all causes was
$61.14 per 100 head.
mately 70 percent was condemnation loss.

Now we have already discussed major
reasons for condemnations of ewes, and
we have indicated the major causes of
condemnation in other grades, so it would
be reasonable to assume that the lower
the grade the more concern must be
exercised over the possibility of increased
loss due to condemnation in particular.

Although only a few animals graded
Prime, we felt that it might be of some
interest to determine the relationship
of bruise trim loss to total bruise loss,
because this would be a particularly good
index of the influence of grade on a major
area of market level loss. The bruise
loss on the animals grading Prime in
the tests amounted to $6.96 per hundred
head. Table 7 shows that this was higher
than the bruise loss for Choice and Good.
In fact, it was more than double the loss
suffered on animals grading Good.

. While this may cause some consterna-
tion at first glance, the reason becomes
apparent upon checking the relationship

Of this, approxi- ‘

of the trim—out and its value to the total
loss figure. For the Prime animals,
the value of the trim was only 3.8 percent
of the total bruise loss. For Choice
animals, it was 7.3 percent, while for
Goods it was 11.8 percent. Thus the
higher the grade the more critical was
bruise damage of any type, since it was
reflected in greater devaluation loss,
which in turn brought about a higher
total bruise loss.

We were not able to make a thorough
analysis of the relationship of weight to
loss damage, since the usual breakdown
on a weight basis in grade did not extend
to the grade Good, and our sample of
animals grading Prime was too small.

But we found that the lightweight ani—
mals suffered more loss in all categories
than the heavier animals. That is, in the
Choice grade the overall market level
loss was about $18.34 a hundred for
lightweight animals, as against $5.75 a
hundred on the heavyweight lambs. Even
on the few Prime grades included in the
test we found that bruise loss was con-
siderably higher on the lightweight Primes
than on those of medium weight. There
were no heavyweight Primes in the test.

Handling Conditions and Practices

We considered factors specifically
related to the actual movement of
the animals incident to marketing and

15

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing that might involve losses.
Here we included the equipment and fa-
cilities, both stationary and mobile, used
in the various handling phases as well
as an appraisal of the techniques and
procedures used by handlers —- evaluating
the influence of people's actions on losses
sustained by their animal charges.

A considerable amount of time was
spent observing the handling and move-
ment of sheep and lambs at public stock—
yards, country buying stations and
concentration points, and at packing plants.
These observations were carried along
over a period of time and apply to some
of the test lots and to many thousands of
head not included in the slaughter tests.
The time spent in making these observa—
tions was spread over various seasons
of the year and over a sufficiently wide
geographical area in the midwestern and

Sheep and lambs need extra protection against excessive heat or bitter cold.
ments, these animals frequently bunch and crowd, posing the possibility of suffocation
see a typical indoor holding shed at a major public stockyard. L .
the way and the pen is well bedded with clean straw.

16

western States and incorporated a suffi-
cient variety of lamb handling facilities
as to provide a reasonable basis for
making the conclusions which follow.

Holding Facilities

 

For the most part, we found that
holding facilities provided at stockyards,
packing plants, and at railroad stockyards
were usually arranged to protect the lambs
in inclement weather. In most instances
a large portion of the total area set aside
for lambs was under cover. In those
sections of the country where weather
during the winter months was apt to be
severe, areas were fully enclosed. Appar-
ently transporters and marketers realized
that sheep and lambs were especially
susceptible to loss and damage from
exposure to bad weather.

 

 

Exposed to the ele—
Here we
Note the feed racks are up out of

 

 




 

 

Generally speaking, holding facilities
were also in good repair and the layouts
not overly complex. Moving the animals
through the facilities did not entail bewil-
dering traffic patterns caused by poorly
planned pens and alleys.

Chutes used in loading and unloading
animals from vehicles varied consid-
erably, both as to type and state of
repair. The trend toward stairstep chutes
was evident at most points, particularly
at the public yards and railroad facilities,
although a great many ramp-type loading
chutes were still in evidence.

At railroad stockyards and at that
portion of public yards where rail ship-
ments were loaded and unloaded, the
arrangements for double-deck loading of
cars were usually quite good. Most
places had permanent double—deck chutes
of the stairstep type, but at one or two
points portable stairstep chutes were
in use.

The most obvious hazard observed at
railroad loading docks was in the use
of cross-over boards leading from the
stationary facility to the car. Fortunately
the distance between dock and car in
most instances was short and the cross-
over was on a level. However, the con—
dition of the cross-over was less than
desirable in many instances.. In a few
places prOper precaution was not observed
in protecting the edges of the cross-over
and lambs could fall from the cross-over
platform to the deck below. The use of
adjustable telescopic gates could remedy
this situation.

Transportation Facilities

 

In the last 2 or 3 years the use of
triple-deck trucks to transport sheep and
lambs has increased. A relatively large

number of sheep and lambs have been
moving in triple-deck vehicles on the
West Coast for some time. Only recently
this type’of trailer-truck has attained
major importance in the Rocky Mountain
and midwestern areas.

Using this type vehicle, of course,
necessitates changes in facilities at stock—
yards or packing plants where the animals
are to be unloaded. Obviously facilities
designed for double-deck vehicles are not
adequate for triple-deck vehicles. Under-
standably, marketers and other receivers
hesitate to construct new facilities or
make changes in otherwise good and
adequate existing facilities unless they
believe triple-deck vehicles will become
an important way of transporting sheep
and lambs.

At the same time, one cannot ignore
the increased hazards and likelihood of
increased market level loss from bruise
injury if some provisions are not made
for the safe unloading of triple-deck
vehicles. Using adjustable chutes offers
one possible solution, and at least one
major public stockyard has chutes of this
type. In addition, one packer has built
a permanent facility for unloading triple-
deck trucks. Others are considering it.
If triple-decking grows in popularity, it.
will be highly important that proper
unloading facilities are constructed at
most major concentrationpoints andpack—
ing plants.

Our examination of railroad stock
cars used to transport sheep and lambs
revealed that while most of these cars
had been in use for many years, their
general condition was not hazardous.
Their principal objectionable condition
from the standpoint of safety lay in the
fact that a number of them had broken
or split side rails. This resulted in

17

 




 

 

splintered points and sharp edges pro-
truding inside the car. Less than 5
percent of the cars checked had hazardous
floors -- those with holes through which
legs of small animals such as sheep and
lambs could slip, thus bringing about
possible cripple loss.

During the course of this study and
a preceding general survey of rail equip—
ment by FCS, we observed the upgrading
of railroad stock cars to some extent.
We believe the rail fleet could be brought
into generally favorable status without
the expenditure of large sums of money
or great amounts of labor and effort.

Bruise Damage in Slaughter Process

 

The likelihood of bruise damage during
the slaughter process must also be recog-
nized. While for many years the packing
industry generally assumed that bruise
damage was not likely to occur during
this process, research work at Ohio State
University conclusively established that
carcass bruise injury could occur at any
time until the blood pressure approached
zero. This research finding is now
generally accepted throughout the indus-
try.

There is always danger of injury to
livestock moving from holding pens to

the actual point of slaughter within the ‘

plant because of the time element involved
and the frequently complex traffic pat-
terns within the packing plant. Hurrying,
pushing, and crowding are almost always
present, and too frequently there is exces-
sive use of persuaders.

However, for sheep and lambs the use
of persuaders was not the problem in
most packing plants participating in these
tests. They used Judas goats to expedite

18

the movement of the lambs to the kill.
Personnel at the slaughter point for the
most part used noise-makers as per—
suaders. As previously noted, changes
in slaughtering techniques during these
tests did occasion difficulties on the part
of personnel dispatching the animals, but
this is understandable since departures
from long—used techniques and procedures
always involve readjustment before the
worker reaches maximum efficiency in
the new process.

The majority of bruise damages occur-
ring at this point involved injury to the
neck. This injury did not usually occasion
devaluation loss as the loss was confined
almost exclusively to the value of the
trimmed tissue. Care in stunning the
animals and techniques and facilities
which allow for immediate sticking will
do much to eliminate the damages from
bruising and internal hemorrhaging.

Motortruck Survey

 

As part of this project, we conducted
a survey of motortrucks arriving at a
major market. This particular market
has long been a major sheep and lamb
market and receives animals from a

' wideSpread area. Two of the cooperating

slaughter plants in this test series were
located at this market. From time to
time FCS has carried on additional
research work at this market on livestock
handling. The truck survey was conducted
because of the increasing importance of
this mode of transport and because the
previous research had indicated that
losses by truck were of substantial impor-
tance. The time was also propitious for
a survey at this market because various
interests there were particularly con-
cerned over losses to sheep and lambs
at the time this project was underway.

 




 

 

 

 

We made the truck survey over a
period of 6 weeks in the fall of 1960 on
various days of the week. We observed
the equipment and the handling accorded
the animals during unloading at the various
facilities around the yard.

While statistics presented in the
following paragraphs and in the tables
in this section included only findings
from this survey, observations made at
other public stockyards during the course
of this study paralleled these findings.
5 Indeed, the conditions prevailing in han-
dling truck shipments at this yard were
no better nor worse than those at other
major stockyards and concentration points
throughout the country.

We observed 362 trucks during the
survey. These vehicles brought somewhat
over 55,000 head of lambs to market.
Shipments originated in seven States, but
94 percent of the receipts came from
four of these States. Sixty-one percent
of the observed loads came in semitrailers
and 14 percent each arrived in straight
trucks or small farmtrucks. The remain-
ing 11 percent came in pickup trucks.
Ofthe 55,000 animals unloaded, 135 were
dead on arrival and 171 were crippled.
This represented a combined dead and
crippled loss of $31.97 per 10,000 head.

This was a high loss, but as we have
stated there was grave concern at this
particular market at the time this truck
survey was conducted. Soon after this
survey was completed, the market initiated
an intensive campaign to reduce losses
both from death and crippling and from
bruise injury, giving special emphasis

to the information on handling conditions
and practices discussed in this report.
Since that time the various classes of
market level loss have decreased dra—
matically.

Only 45 percent of the trucks we
observed contained dead and crippled
sheep. Thus the majority of the trucked-
in loads arrived without obvious losses.
An intensive campaign aimed at those
truckers which did show losses would
be worthwhile.

Certain conditions have come to be
accepted as "loss-associated conditions,"
as a result of previous research. These
conditions, shown in table 8, generally
existed in those loads of animals in which
one or more types of loss were apparent.

We analyzed the 163 loads of animals
in this survey having deads or cripples.
Two-thirds of these trucks had one or
more‘ of the loss-associated conditions.
Eliminating conditions such as these would
go a long way in effectively reducing loss
and damage.

Improper loading, observed in 15 per-
cent of the trucks, was the term generally
applied to overcrowded vehicles, but it
was also used to apply to a few so lightly
loaded as to allow for undue shifting of
the load. Proper loading is extremely
important for sheep and lambs, particu-
larly because lambs usually huddle or
bunch, which can result in suffocation.

Incidence of "loss-associated"
trucks containing dead or
or txﬂfi kinds, at un-

Table 8. —
conditions in
crippled lambs,

 

 

loading
Condition Trucks
Percent
Improper loading 15
Improper or inadequate bedding 16
Improper ventilation (inadequate,
excessive, or poorly controlled) 12
Abusive handling 56
No "loss-associated" conditions 33

 

l9

 




 

 

 

By inadequate bedding, we meant the
failure to use any bedding or to use too
much or too little of it, depending upon
the circumstances. For the most part
the term used in this particular survey
applied to trucks which had no bedding.
Of course it is difficult to bed an upper
deck so that the material remains through
the journey. Unfortunately this difficulty
results in too many drivers making no
attempt at all to bed the upper deck.
Serious attention should be given to cor—
recting this situation, because bedding
can provide proper footing and help over-
come adverse weather conditions.

The term "improper ventilation" in
this study referred to the arrangement
of the slatted sides, the front ventilators,
or the top where under certain conditions
either too little or too much ventilation
was provided. -

The majority of the trucks used for
the transportation of livestock are slatted
in a manner somewhat similar to railroad
stock cars. Frequently the smaller trucks
are a combination box type and can be
converted to a solid-sided vehicle to
transport grain and the like. The semi-
trailers usually have ventilators at the
front which can be used to direct an
additional flow of air over the livestock.
Most small trucks are uncovered, whereas
most semitrailers are covered.

We based our decision on whether
to classify a given truck load as
improperly ventilated on prevailing
weather conditions, the number of ani-
mals in the load, and the distance trav-
ersed.

Again, ventilation is of special sig-
nificance to sheep and lambs because
these animals often bunch o crowd
together. /' ‘

2O

Abusive handling of the live stock during
unloading occurred in the preponderant
majority of the trucks with dead or
crippled animals. There are many kinds
and types of abusive handling. In this
survey we included kicking, excessive and
unreasonable use of persuaders, forcing
animals to jump from upper decks, lifting
animals by the wool or pulling them out
by the leg, and hurrying animals to such
an extent that there are slips, downs, or
falls or piling during unloading. Table 9
shows. the incidence of these various
types of abusive handling on the 91 trucks
where we observed such handling.

Excessive and unreasonable use of
persuaders was by far the most prevalent
form of abusive handling. The use of
persuaders was not classified abusive
unless it involved applying the persuader
with extreme force or in such manner
as to force the animal to strike some
portion of the facility or equipment in
a way likely to cause bruise damage.

In a fewinstances the use of persuaders
was classified as abusive when they were

Table 9. - Incidence of forms of handling
abuse observed’ in trucks unloading with
dead or crippled lambs or both kinds

 

 

 

Type of abuse a¥¥::%:d
Percent
Handlers kicking animals ”2
Abusive use of persuaders 77
Forcing or hurrying animals causing
downers, slipping, and piling-up 43
Making animals jump from vehicle or
throwing them from upper decks or
truck body 23
Lifting by the wool or pulling from
vehicle by back legs 22
Instances involving 2 or more types
of abuse 66

 

 




 

employed continuously in such a way as to
overly excite the animals. Such use was
classified abusive because of the increased
_ susceptibility of overly excited animals
to carcass damage from bruising and the
greater severity likely to prevail in
bruises inflicted under these conditions.

We observed all types of persuaders.

during the course of this survey, but
canes and electric prodders were pre—
dominant. Many handlers used canvas
slappers and, for the most part, used
them properly.

In a number of instances more than
one type of persuader was used. This
was particularly true where two people
unloaded the vehicle -- either the driver
and a helper or the driver and some
other individual present at the time of
unloading. Where more than one type of
persuader was used, the most frequently
used combination was a cane and an
electric prod.

In two-thirds of the observed cases,‘

we noted more than one type of handling
abuse. Almost always the abusive use of
a persuader was one type, with thesecond
type varying somewhat. Where handlers
of livestock were inclined to be intemper—
ate or careless, they were not likely to
confine abuse of livestock in their charge
to a single form.

Virtually all of the handling abuse
observed could be attributed to the desire
Of the driver to unload his truck quickly.
Unfortunately, the old adage "haste makes
waste" came into play. Not only were
there loss and damage but frequently the
loading was actually delayed rather than
facilitated.

Lifting sheep by the wool has long

of the truck by a leg.

been—recognized as a major cause of
bruise injury. We observed this practice
in a few instances during the truck survey.
We also saw wool bruises on some of the
carcasses of the test animals. Apparently
industry has done a reasonably good job
in alerting handlers to this abuse because
it does not appear to be as serious a
problem as it once was. However, this
abuse has been replaced by the practice
of reaching in and dragging a lamb out
Ample evidence
demonstrated that this resulted in damage
to the leg. The practice should be dis-
continued.

People in the livestock industry felt
strongly that the action of handlers was
largely governed by whether or not they
liked sheep. Certainly, many handlers
think sheep are stupid. If this is the
attitude of the handler, you can expect
intemperate handling. '

On the other hand, some handlers
appreciate the follow the leader instinct
of sheep and make use of it in their
handling methods. You have only to watch
unloading by experienced sheep handlers
to see that once the animals are started
on their way out of the vehicle, they
virtually unload themselves. It is much
easier merely to assist the lead lamb off
the truck and let the others flow naturally
after it than to create confusion and
consternation by trying to force one off
by the abusive use of persuaders.

While it may nOt be possible to be
certain that sheep and lambs will always
be handled by those who like them, those
who have an investment in these animals
will do well to assure themselves that the
handling will be done by people who at
least Understand the peculiarities of the
species and act accordingly.

2]

 

 

 

 




 

 

Livestock Handling Publications Available

Losses of Livestock in Transit in Midwestern and Western States.
Marketing Research Report 247. Joseph E. Rickenbacker.

Causes of Losses in Trucking Livestock. Marketing Research Re—
port 261. Joseph E. Rickenbacker.

Handling Conditions and Practices Causing Bruises in Cattle. Market—
ing Research Report 346. Joseph E. Rickenbacker.

Loss and Damage in Handling and Transporting Hogs. Marketing
Research Report 447. Joseph E. Rickenbacker.

Safety-Checking Livestock Handling Facilities. Information 28.
Joseph E. Rickenbacker.

Other Publications Available

The Story of Farmer's Cooperatives, Educational Circular 1.
A Livestock Market is Born. General Report 96. C. G. Randell.

Livestock Pooling -- Improved Marketing Through Grading and Com-
mingling. Marketing Research Report 510. Ira M. Stevens and
John T. Haas.

Improving Livestock Marketing Efficiency -- A Study of Nine Coop—
erative Livestock Markets in Ohio, Indiana, and Michigan. General
Report 39. Ira M. Stevens and R. L. Fox.

Livestock Marketing Cooperatives in California -- Their Progress,

Policies, and Operating Methods. General Report 98. Raymond L.
Fox.

Recent Developments in Farmer Cooperative Meat Packing and Proc-
essing. Information 18. Raymond L. Fox.

Motortruck Leasing by Farmer Cooperatives. Information 14.
William C. Bowser, Jr.

A copy of each of these publications may be obtained upon request
While a supply is available from -—

Information Division
Farmer Cooperative Service
U. S. Department of Agriculture
Washington 25, D. C.

 

Growth Thtough Agricultural Progtess

‘A' US. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1962 0‘645508

 




 

 

 

 

 

that the committe will be ready for the
taking up of this ‘

Senate at any tim it suits the conveni- «

ence of the leader hip.

Mr. MANSFIEL .Mr. President, will
the Senator yield?

Mr. HOLLAND. 1 yield.

Mr. MANSFIELD. I am delighted that
the Senator from Florida brought up this
matter. Would the Senator be averse to
.3 taking up this appropriation bill on
‘ Thursday or Friday of this week?

Mr. HOLLAND. lot at all; any day on
which the majorit leader sets it. I have
1 no instructions from the committee as to
. any particul r day. I am sure that the
committee W 1 agree that the matter
‘ should be ha dled as expeditiously as
possible.

The PRESI IN. OFFICER. The re-

,i‘. ed and the bill will be
placed on the c endar; and withOut ob- .
: jection, the report will be printed.
0M4 . 3:0
BILLS INTROD C D

Bills were introduced, read the ﬁrst
time, and, by unanimous consent, the
second time, and referred as follows:

By Mr. TOWER:

S. 20183. A bill to provide for the transfer
of certain functions from the Department
of the Interior to the Department of Agri-
culture; to the Committee on Government
Operations.

(See the remarks of Mr. TOWER when he
introduced the above bill, which appear
under a separ te heading.)

’I‘TON (for himself and Mr.

 

chases in
Force; to t

 

TRANSFER FROM DEPARTMENT OF
INTERIOR TO DEPARTMENT OF
AGRICULTURE OF CERTAIN FUNC-
TION S RELATING TO CONTROL OF
PREDATORY ANIMALS AND WILD-

m
Mr. TOWER. Mr. President, I intro-
duce, for appropriate reference, a bill to
transfer from the Department of Interior
to the Department of Agriculture certain

; functions relating to the control of pred‘ ‘

‘ atory animals and wildlife. 5
This bill is essentially the same as 9.3

bill I sponsored in the 89th Congress, ‘

S. 1835. The only difference is that since 5

the time that bill was introduced the 1

Division of Predatory Animal and Rodent
Control arm?" Depar merit of eI'IOI‘
mad its name changed and made a
part of the Division of Wildlife Services,
which in turn is a part of the Bureau
of Sport Fisheries and Wildlife. The bill
I introduce today takes that change into
account.

A number of farmers and ranchers in
my State have requested my assistance
in having this bill reintroduced. The
change is of particular interest togthe

ittee on Armed Services. 1

J

Texas Sheep and Goat Raisers Associa- p,

tion, which feels that a transfer of , func-
tions to the Department of Agriculture
would be particularly helpful in their

 

 

 

Juli/71*} 967 ' *

efforts to control predatOry animals and
rodents. M-

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The bill
will be received and appropriately re-
ferred. »

The bill (S. 2083) to provide for the
transfer of Certain functions from the
Department of the Interior to the De- '
partment of Agriculture, introduced by
Mr. TOWER, was received, read twice by
its title, and referred to the Committee
on Governrgent Operations.

 

a,

 




90TH CONGRESS :
1 ST SESSION .- 2 O 8 3

 

IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

JULY 11, 1967

Mr. TOWER introduced the following bill; which was read twice and referred
to the Committee on Government Operations

 

To provide for the transfer of certain functions from the Depart—

ment of the Interior to the Department of Agriculture.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representa—
tives of the United States of America in Congress assembled,
That those functions previously administered by the Division
of Predatory Animal and Rodent Control, Bureau of Sport
Fisheries and Wildlife, Department of the Interior, and pres—
ently administered by the Division of Wildlife Services,
Bureau of Sport Fisheries and Wildlife, Department of the
Interior, are hereby transferred to the Department of Agri-
culture, and such functions and all duties in connection there-
with shall be assumed by and be the sole responsibility of the

Secretary of Agriculture.

II

 




 

12
13
14
15
16
17

18

2

SEO. 2. (a) All assets, liabilities, contracts, commit—
ments, property, records, personnel, and u'neXpended balances
of appropriations, allocations, and other funds (including
authorizations and allocations for administrative expenses),
available or to be made available, of the Department of the
Interior which the Director of the Bureau of the Budget de-
termines relate primarily to those functions previously admin—
istered by the Division of Predatory Animal and Rodent
Control, Bureau of Sport Fisheries and Wildlife, Department
of the Interior, and presently administered by the Division of
Wildlife Services, Bureau of Sport Fisheries and Wildlife,
Department of the Interior, shall be transferred from the De-
partment of the Interior to the Department of Agriculture
at such time or times as the Director shall prescribe.

(b) Such further measures and dispositions as the Direc—
tor of the Bureau of the Budget shall determine to be neces—
sary in order to effectuate the transfers provided for in this
Act shall be carried out in such manner as the Director shall
prescribe.

SEC. 3. The transfer of the functions and duties provided
for in the first section of this Act shall be completed not later

than ninety days after the date of enactment of this Act.




 

 

9OTESQS£EESS S. 2083
A BILL

To provide for the transfer of certain functions
from the Department of the Interior to the
Department of Agriculture.

 

 

 

By Mr. TOWER

 

JULY 11, 1967

Read twice and referred to the Committee on
Government: Operations

 

 

 




AGRICULTURAL

US. DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE SEPTEMBER 1985

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




September 1965/V0l. 14, N0. 3

Controlling Pests

“One of the most important responsibilities of the De-
partment is to develop and facilitate the use of methods
and materials for the control of pests,” Secretary Freeman
said in a policy statement on pesticides issued earlier this
year.

In so doing, the statement continues, “the Department
has vital concern (1) for the health and well-being of
people who use pesticides and those who use products
protected by their use; and (2) for the protection of ﬁsh,
wildlife, soil, air, and water from pesticide pollution.”

The Congress supported this policy when it made funds
available for the ABS Metabolism and Radiation Research
Laboratory dedicated recently at Fargo, N. D'ak. The-re,
scientists are conducting basic research to learn exactly
how plants, animals, and insects take up, store, break down,
and eliminate chemicals. Information gained may lead
to the development of new pesticides that will be effective
in controlling pests—without creating hazards to man or
to beneﬁcial plants and animals.

The Fargo scientists are also exploring control tech-
niques that do not rely on pesticides. For example, they
are seeking new uses for the insect sterility technique,
already applied so successfully against the scre-wworm
throughout the South.

Month after month, this magazine has reported unique
new methods of combating pests—with light, sound, low-
volume sprays, attractants, repellents, and diseases of de-
structive insects and weeds. Some of these methods are
proving very effective; others must undergo further testing.

The bacterium Bacillus thuringiensis is highly effective

against certain caterpillars attacking tobacco, cotton, and
vegetables. But what effect does this same bacterium (or
a Virus or fungus) have on beneﬁcial insects, such as
honeybees? (See page 8, this issue.)

Before any new pest control method can leave the lab-
oratory, its effect on man, wildlife, and the environment
must be ﬁrmly established.

 




    

 

By causing sows to come into heat all at one time, scientists

synchronize breeding and farrowing

I Can sows be brought into heat at
the same time, thus permitting syn-
chronized breeding and farrowing?
In tests at Beltsville, Md, 132 gilts
and sows were given a synthetic drug
in their ration, brought into heat si-
multaneously, and bred artiﬁcially.
Of those continuing in the tests
through farrowing, all gave birth to
their young within a 3-day period.
The sows averaged 8 pigs per litter,
about the same as control animals used
for comparison, and length of gesta-~
To date, the treat-
ment had no apparent ill affect on any

tion was normal.

of the pigs, an important considera-
tion in the tests.

ARS animal physiologist R. J. Ger-

SEPTEMBER 1965

rits is conducting the studies, using
a compound called MATCH, a short-
ened version :coined from the chem-
ical name—1-a-methylallylthiocarba-
moyl-Z~methylthiocarbamoyl - hydra-
zine (I.C.I. 33,828) .

developed and patented in England, is

The compound,

now being examined by the Food and
Drug Administration—a necessary
step before it can be cleared for use
by farmers.

Hog producers could easily admin-
ister the compound, Gerrits said, by
mixing speciﬁed amounts into feed
given to the female breeding herd.
The females are kept on the fortiﬁed
feed for 20 days.
after they receive the last dose, the

Five to seven days

 

treated sows come into heat.

After making a preliminary report
of his ﬁndings last year, Gerrits re-
ceived inquiries from scientists and
hog producers all over the world.
They recognized that the new proce-
dure could make possible the greatest
advance in hog production since the
development of antibiotics.

First, the compound could make
artiﬁcial insemination practical in hog
Artiﬁcial

has not increased in the hog industry,

production. insemination
as it has in the dairy industry, be-
cause boar semen cannot be stored for
more than a few days, and there has
been no way to induce or delay heat
in female hogs.




HOGS-A CROP AT A TIME

Artiﬁcial insemination makes
possible maximum use of boars
with proved capacity to sire pigs
that gain rapidly and efﬁciently and
that yield high-quality lean meat.
This should provide more lean
pork to consumers without any in-
crease in pork prices.

Second, producers could utilize
equipment, buildings, and labor
more efﬁciently if sows farrowed
all at the same time, thus reducing
the overhead cost per pig marketed.

Third, the use of the compound
could help prevent disease cycles.

Present continuous farrowing re-

(Continued)

sults in a buildup of diseases of
very small pigs. If, however, lit-
ters were all the same age, the dis-
ease cycle would be minimized.

Fourth, hog producers could plan
their yearly program so they would
have a given number of pigs ready
for market at speciﬁed times.

Fifth, use of the compound to
synchronize heat periods would
facilitate such basic research stu-
dies as determining the inﬂuence
of the mother on the development
of unborn young, which requires
the transplanting of living embryos
from one animal to anothersﬁf

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    

    

Animal husbandmen weigh
several long-held theories
in 5-year studies

All- Grain
Ration-

 

. All-concentrate ﬁnishing rations
based on either corn or wheat have
been successfully fed in trials at Belts-
ville, Md., involving more than 250
steers over the past 5 years.

The ARS trials, supported by stud-
ies at State Agricultural Experiment
Stations, not only show practical ways

to ﬁnish cattle but also challenge

theories that have inﬂuenced cattle-
feeding practices in the past:

1. That cattle require roughage for
health and efﬁcient growth.

2. That minerals found in hay must
be added to ﬁnishing rations.

3. That vegetable proteins are su-
perior to synthetic urea.

4. That wheat cannot be fed as the
major source of carbohydrates.

Beltsville scientists R. R. Oltjen,
R. E. Davis, and James Bond fed sev-

eral lots of yearling steers an all-grain

AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH

 

 

 

 

 

M“!

.3, ~I A~

 

 

 

S 61
cm
cm

CO]
we

1,]

fee
ca




    

Several lots of yearlings raised on an all—grain ﬁnishing ration (right) maintained good health, gained rapidly,

converted feed eﬁiciently, and produced carcasses of acceptable market quality. Other yearlings received the same

concentrates plus 25 percent hay (left) and did equally well.

corn ﬁnishing ration for about 16
weeks to slaughter weights of 900 to
1,100 pounds. The steers maintained
good health, gained rapidly, converted
feed efﬁciently—and produced car-
casses of acceptable market quality.
Earlier in the studies, the scientists
found that cattle do not need the addi-
tional bulk or roughage usually fed.
Two lots of yearlings were fed free
choice on like rations of corn-plus-
supplements except that half of the
animals also received cobs ground and
mixed into the ration for bulk. Cat-
tle receiving the ration with cobs
added ate just enough more to get the
same amount of grain eaten by the
group on the all-grain ration. Growth
rate and carcass grades were similar.
The scientists knew that certain
minerals usually obtained from hay
are lacking in the high-grain rations,

SEPTEMBER 1965

so they fed zinc or steamed bonemeal
as supplements. Neither, however,
gave any beneﬁt. To further test the
need of. additional minerals, they
added a buffering mixture of calcium
and potassium carbonates and mag-
nesium sulfate to the all-grain rations
to obtain a favorable ruminal pH.
This mineral combination (1) had
little effect on gain and feed efﬁciency,
(2) caused the only cases of bloat,
and (3) lowered carcass quality an
average of one-third of a grade.
Although vegetable protein supp-le-
ments are traditional with cattle feed-
ers, the Beltsville researchers found
urea equal to soybean meal when
measured by animal performance.
Wheat was substituted for corn in
the ﬁnishing ration fed other groups
of steers. Rate of gain and feed efﬁ-
ciency were reduced when wheat

The added roughage gave no advantage.

comprised more than 60 percent of
the total ration. Cattle fed an all-
corn ration gained 3.1 pounds daily,
compared with 2.6 pounds for cattle
fed an all-wheat ration. Although
corn was a superior feed grain in these
tests, wheat contains more protein and
therefore requires less protein supi-
plement. And. wheat sometimes is
cheaper, as was the case in 1964.

The Beltsville research also ques-
tions the viewpoint that all-concen-
trate feeding may be responsible for
founder, kidney, and liver diseases,
and bloat among feedlot cattle. None
of the grain-fed steers had founder or
kidney lesions. Only about 15 per-
cent of the livers were condemned—
far fewer than the 40 to 80 percent
reported by some feeders. And ex-
.cept for occasional instances, bloat
occurred only in steers fed buffersjk'

5

 

 




 

Poultrymen with caged layers

should determine density level, then decide . . .

 

I Once a poultry producer has de-
cided how much room he will allow
caged layers, he should buy the strain
of laying hen that will adjust best to
the allotted space.

ARS scientists at Athens, Ga.,
reached this conclusion after conduct-
ing a 280-day laying trial in which
siX strains of hens were housed at
three density levels: One hen per cage;
two per cage; or as a colony of ﬁve
hens sharing two cages with the par-
tition removed (21/2 per cage).

Geneticist R. E. Cook, leader of the
group doing the investigation, says
that strains housed at different densi-
ties varied widely in production per
hen and in mortality. On factors
other than eggs per hen and mortality,
the researchers noted no strain differ-
ences. Egg-quality factors, such as
blood spots or egg weight, appeared
unrelated to strain or space per bird.

The siX strains of hens used in the
test came from commercial hatcheries.
They were housed at 21 weeks of age
in 10- by 18-inch cages, so that indi-
vidual hens had available 114 sq. ft.,
5%; sq. ft., or 1/2 sq. ft. of cage space.

Strain 9, the top performer in pairs,
averaged 61/2 more eggs per hundred
hens each day than the nearest com-

Egg production of the six strains
varied greatly at all three levels

of density—as is shown in this
graph. Results are based on the
production per hen—not per cage—
to emphasize strain differences.

6

It bested the aver-
age of all paired birds (regardless of

petitor (strain 1).

strain) by 9' eggs per hundred per day
and the bottom strain (number 5) by
16 eggs.

The pairs from, strain 9 equaled or
exceeded eggs per bird produced by
three strains caged singly, including
birds from their own strain. Two
strains caged as pairs, however, had
poor records when they were com-
pared with singles: Strain 5 produced
one-third fewer eggs per hen and
strain 8, one-ﬁfth fewer.

PERCENT EGG
PRODUCTION
8O

70
60
50
40

30

 

0 0 6
STRAIN N0.

 

In colonies, the situation differed
again. Number 8 was the only strain
that laid more eggs in colonies than
in pairs, but the difference amounted
to only about four eggs per hundred
hens per day. In strain 1, produc-
tion of colonies averaged almost one-
third below that of pairs.

All strains laid more as singles than
as colonies. The difference in daily
production per hundred hens ranged
from two fewer eggs in strain 9 to 32
eggs less in strain 1.

If a poultryman had to pick the one

g5] SINGLES
Egg? PAIRS
E9 saggy COLONIES ------

‘V‘IV" 'vnr‘ ‘VHP

 

G 0 0

AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH

 

 

 

 

 

or

A1:
clu
ulz
bu
str
ca:
of

str

p0




or two top strains from those in the
ABS study, he would quickly con-
clude that some strains see-med partic-
ularly adapted to one level of density,
but not to another. For example,
strain 9 rated high with two birds per
cage; strain 6 did well with colonies
of ﬁve. But as singles, birds from
strains 6 and 9' proved to be: the
poorest producers.

Why this difference? “Some
strains just proved to be a. little
tougher than the others,” Cook ex-
plains. “Fewer birds from, the more
persistent strains died. We didn’t
lose any strain 6 birds from the pairs
and only 8.6 percent of strain 6 birds
from the colonies. In strain 9, only
7.1 percent of the pairs died. Col-
onies of strain 5 birds, on the other
hand, had a mortality of 37.1 percent.”

9 A look at the Athens study with-
out stressing strain differences re-
veals that average egg yield increased
almost three-fourths when occupancy
per cage was doubled. Egg quality,
meanwhile, stayed the same. There-
fore, a producer can increase his in-
come by putting two birds into a cage
instead of one, even though produc-
tion per bird decreases.

. This differs from the situation a
half dozen years ago, when ARS
did not recommend crowding birds.
Today, however, investment in hous-
ing and equipment is greater, proﬁt
margins are smaller, and management
has improved to change the outlook on
limited crowding.

0 Yet, crowding to an average of
21/; birds per cage was of little addi-
tional beneﬁt in the trial and would
raise a poultryman’s income only un-
der superior management. On the
average, production of colonies was
only slightly greater per cage of 21/;
birds than per cage of pairs—not
nearly enough increase to pay for the

additional half bird and her feedﬂz

SEPTEMBER 1965 ,

 

It worked against screwworrns and Mexican fruit-
ﬂies; now the male sterility technique looks

promising against . . .

 

I Chemical sterilization looks
promising as a method. of control-
ling or eradicating the: pink boll-
worm, laboratory investigations
have shown.

ARS scientists are studying
chemical sterilants to ﬁnd ways to
sexually sterilizer insects without
otherwise affecting their vigor.
Their objective is to mass rear in-
sects and release them to control or
eradicate an. insect species by pre-
venting reproduction.

The practical value of the steril-
ity technique was shown in 1958—
59 when the screwworm was
eradicated in the Southeast by
releasing screwworm ﬂies that had
been sterilized by cobalt radiation.
Its value was veriﬁed further last
year when millions of Mexican
fruitﬂies, sterilized with a chem-
ical, were released along the Mex-
ico-California border. This pre-
vented the fruitﬂy from becoming
established in California.

ARS- entomologists M. T. Ouye,
H. M. Graham, and D. F. Martin,
and research technician R. S. Gar-
cia, cooperated with the Texas
Agricultural Experiment Station at
Brownsville in the pink bollworm
sterilization tests. They used
metepa to sterilize the male and
female moths.

By far the most efﬁcient treat-
ment tried by the researchers was
direct application of the chemo-
sterilant to males at a rate of one
two-millionth of an ounce of me-
tepa per male. This gave effec-
tive sterilization with only a slight
reduction in mating frequency.

 

Only 4 eggs hatched out of
13,622 eggs laid by females mated
with sterilized males, and later tests
showed that these 4 probably would

not have developed into normal

adults. Egg laying by treated fe-
males mated to untreated males
was reduced considerably, but 6-
percent of the eggs hatched.

The scientists also sterilized
males by exposing them to metepa
residues. Adult males were con-
ﬁned for 15 minutes in jars where
the residue on the surface of the
glass was less than one two-hundred
thousandth of an ounce per square
inch. Only 5 eggs hatched out of
the 7,416 laid by females that mated
with these males. When the re-
searchers increased exposure time
to an hour, only 2 eggs hatched out
of 7,411. Exposure to residues
reduced the life span of the pink
bollworms—the longer the ex-
posure the shorter the life of the
insect.

The scientists say the value of
sterile pink bollworm moths for
controlling or eliminating low level
populations, or the beginnings of
potential infestations, will require

further ﬁeld evaluationsﬁz

 




 

 

Before organisms can be recommended for use against
insect pests, scientists must know how they will affect

friendly insects

Spray a ﬁeld with a virus or an-
other organism that kills a particular
insect pest, and what happens to such
beneﬁcial insects as honeybees?
With growing interest in insect patho-
gens as natural insecticides, this ques-
tion takes on added importance for
researcher and farmer alike.

To learn part of the answer, ARS
insect pathologist G. E. Cantwell and
microbiologist A. S. Michael, are feed-
ing colonies of bees at Beltsville, Md.,
on diets containing various concen-
trations of insect pathogens.

Speciﬁcally, the bees are ingesting
two fractions of the bacterium Bacil-
lus tharingiensis (exotoxin and crys~
tal toxin), which are recommended
for use on certain caterpillars attack-
ing tobacco, cotton, cole crops, and
vegetables; the fungus Beauveria bas-
siana, which is nonspeciﬁc in its at-
tack on insects; and the nuclear poly-
hedrosis virus, which attacks. the corn
earworm and the tobacco budworm.

Bees were selected for the tests be-
cause of their economic importance,
and because as social insects they are
particularly susceptible to disease.
Also as a result of this social behavior,
it is possible that an organism that
does not visibly affect individual bees
may harm the colony. Scientists
wonder, for instance, whether certain
pathogens might affect honey or wax
production, or egg laying by the
queen, without killing the bees or

harming them in other ways. Only
studies of bee colonies can provide
such data.

The scientists believe the current
tests will add support to previous
studies and observations. Earlier re-
search found, for example, that the
fungus B. bassiana was harmful to

This phase of the re-

search is being continued to obtain

honeybees.

more conclusive evidence about the
effects of fungus on honeybees and
undoubtedly will add knowledge about
the effects of other pathogenic: fungi
on pollinating insects.

Investigations conducted by Cant-
well last year showed that one of the
bacterial exotoxins, fatal to flies, will
also kill bees—but only when admin-
istered at dosages higher than any
used in ﬁeld applications against in-
sect pests. In the current tests, the
two scientists are feeding exotoxin to
12 colonies of bees at various concen-
trations above and below the mini-
mum lethal dose, hoping to detect the
effects of sublethal doses on the colo-
nies. Six colonies will receive crys-
tal toxin in their diets.

Finally, a Virus widely believed. to
affect the corn earworm and closely
related species is being fed to four
colonies of bees. If it proves harm-
less to the colonies, researchers will
have added more evidence to that al-
ready amassed indicating that viruses
are highly speciﬁc control agentsaﬁr

Two of the pathogens fed to honeybees were—TOP LEFT: Bacillus
thuringiensis crystal, shown as an electron micrograph of a carbon replica;
LEFT: Polyhedron of the corn earworm virus, shown magniﬁed

many times as cross sectional plaster model, contains

rod-shaped virus particles.

AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH

 

 




 

TOP—Bees leaving colonies exit through openings with combinations of speciﬁc colors and designs, no two of which
are alike. On returning, the bees recognize the patterns and colors, and ﬁnd their way back to the proper hive.

BOTTOM LEFT—Microbiologist A. C. Michael, research leader, keeps an accurate account of the bee colony being
fed the pathogens. The information is needed to determine whether or not an organism harms individual bees

or the colony. BOTTOM RIGHT—Pathologist G. E. Cantwell prepares a diet containing insect pathogen material

to determine its effects on honeybees.

 

SEPTEMBER 1965 9

.
i

 




 

I Commercial egg white—used in
cakes, meringues, and other foods—
can now be pasteurized without dam-
aging the proteins or signiﬁcantly
lowering the whipping quality or cake
volume.

 

Scientists perfect method that does not lower whipping quality

The new pasteurizing process al-
ready has been tested on a large scale
and is expected to expand both domes-
tic and foreign markets for liquid,
frozen, and dried egg whites. U.S.
production of commercial egg whites
(liquid basis) is now 200 million
pounds annually.

ARS chemists Hans Lineweaver
and F. E. Cunningham developed the
process at the Western utilization re-
search laboratory, Albany, Calif. It
involves stabilizing liquid egg white
to withstand the heat of pasteurization,
which serves as a safeguard against
bacteria, especially Salmonella or-
ganisms. These organisms can cause
food poisoning characterized by nau-
sea and fever.

Although liquid egg yolks and
whole eggs have been pasteurized for
many years, adequate pasteurization
of egg white alone has not been pos-
sible because the necessary heat level
damaged the proteins. This damage
caused smaller cake volumes and loss
of whipping quality in meringue.

Lineweaver and Cunningham have
devised a way to stabilize the four
heat-susceptible proteins of egg white.
An acid, preferably lactic acid, is used
to lower the pH of white from its nor-
mal 9.0 to 6.8. This protects the
three main proteins—lysozyme, ovo-
mucoid, and ovalbumin. A fourth
protein, conalbumin, requires a metal
salt, preferably aluminum sulfate, for
stabilization.

(The pasteurization process applies
principles that were established in
basic research on the isolated indi-

vidual proteins. The research proved

that proteins in the egg white react in
the same way as they do separately—
as pure isolated proteins in solution.
The studies on proteins also showed
that whole egg withstands pasteuriza-
tion because it has a neutral pH, and
the yolk contains enough iron to sta-
bilize conalbumin.)

In preparing the stabilizing solu-
tion, the chemists mix 1 ounce of alu-
minum sulfate to 1 pound of 25-per-
cent lactic acid. Only 6.5 pounds of
this solution are required for each
1,000 pounds of egg white. Triethyl
citrate or triacetin may be included as
a whipping aid, if desired. The en-
tire mixture is ﬂash heated to 1400
F. and held for 31/2 to 4 minutes—the
heat and time required to insure ade-
quate pasteurization.

The scientists point out that in cake
formulas

pasteurized
white, cream of tartar can be reduced
about 20 percent, since lactic acid has
already been added.

The researchers are continuing
their studies for further improvements
and simpliﬁcationsﬁz

containing

  

These angelfood cakes are identical
in taste, volume, and quality. One
(right), however, was made with
pasteurized white; the other with
unpasteurized white.

AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH

 

4M\___——f x‘—.4 _ A . i

 

   

 

 
       
           
   
   
  
   
  
   
   
  
  
  
  
   
 
   
  
    
  
   
   
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
   
 

CV
[)0
er:
Sll

U1

0V

dt
C(

er
ta
in
re

sli
th

ST
Ii]

6‘

tb

k1

  




 

   
 
 
 

I Nearly 5 trillion gallons of water
evaporate annually from small farm
ponds and reservoirs in the 17 west-
ern States. That’s enough water to
supply all of the households in the
United States for 1 year—or all the
cattle in those same western States for
over 20 years.

This water loss can be greatly re-
duced, ABS studies at the US. Water

Conservation Laboratory, Tempe,

Ariz., have shown. Scientists low-
ered evaporation from experimental
tanks, as much as 40 percent, by plac-
ing a molecular ﬁlm of evaporation
retardant on the water surface.

The scientists used alkanol, a waxy
solid commonly used in lipstick, as
the retardant, applying it to water
after it had been mixed with a water
soluble carrying agent (matrix).
Various alkanol-matrix mixtures were
tested at the laboratory on tanks ap-
proximately 9 feet in diameter and 3
feet deep.

(Alkanol molecules are long and
slender—one end is attracted to water,
the other is repelled. When they are
spread on water, they stand on end
like a bundle of pencils. If enough
molecules are present to form a ﬁlm,
evaporation is retarded because the
water must—in order to escape—pass
through narrow openings between the
molecule-s.)

Although researchers have long

known that alkanol will retard evap-

SEPTEMBER 1965

oration, practical application was
delayed because a carrying agent was
needed to dispense and maintain the
ﬁlm. The matrix dissolves. and re-
leases alkanol at a continuous rate.
The scientists say that low-cost
sugar for in-

stance—may prove the most eco-

sirups—molasses,
nomical matrices. Besides sugar sir-
ups, they tested gum tragacanth and
hydroxyethyl cellulose.

In one test, a 29-percent alkanol
was mixed with a sucrose-sugar mat-
This

inch

rix and placed in a test tube.
tube was then suspended %
below the water surface.

Over a 2-week period, the dissolv-
ing matrix released alkanol at a rate
of about 1/g gram per day. This treat-
ment held evaporation to 4.4 gallons
per day, about 40 percent below that
evaporating from an untreated check
tank, which lost slightly more than 11
gallons per day.

But is it practical? Laboratory
director L. E. Myers believes it is—
for small ponds. More research and
more ﬁeld testing are needed, how-
ever, to determine the release rates.

Myers points out that wind, which
causes a high rate of evaporation,
breaks up the alkanol ﬁlm at a time
when it
quently, the release rate on a small

is needed most. Conse-
pond must be such that it will main-
tain a ﬁlm. in normal wind and recover

quickly from. a high wind.

. . . with a molecular ﬁlm that cuts
evaporative water loss by 1,0 percent

 

Three ways. have been found to con-
trol the rate of release:

0 By controlling the percentage of
alkanol in. a mixture. The greater
the percentage, the faster alkanol is
released to form a ﬁlm.

. By controlling the area of mix-
ture exposed to water. The larger
the area of exposed mixture, the faster
the matrix dissolves and releases the
alkanol.

9 By the selection of a matrix.
Different matrices dissolve at differ-
ent rates. Hydroxyethyl cellulose,
for instance, dissolves faster than
gum tragacanth. The rate at which
the sugar sirup matrix dissolved
varied widely, depending upon the
concentration of sugar and the par-
ticle size of the alkanol.

Practical and eﬁective release meth-
ods have not yet been developed for
large bodies of water. Reservoirs
that supply big western cities, for ex-
ample, lose about 31/2 times more
water to evaporation than small ponds
and reservoirs—largely because they
are disturbed more by wind.

An alkanol-release rate that would
maintain a ﬁlm on a large reservoir
during windy weather would be too
high during a calm. Myers points
out, however, that it might be possible
during windy periods for an airplane
to drop containers of supplementary
alkanol-matrix mixture for quick
release in large reservoirsjk'

  

 
 




I ABS and Texas scientists are study-
ing boll weevils in an attempt to dis-
cover how well they discriminate be-
tween various intensities of color and
light.

The tests were made by ARS agri-
cultural engineer J. P. Hollingsworth
and Texas A & M physicists D. L.
Mordue and O. D. Sittler, who are
seeking ways of using light to attract
or repel boll weevils. Their work is
part of a broad effort by ABS to de-
velop new and more effective methods
of insect control.

The studies so far indicate that boll
weevils detect radiation in the same
spectral region as humans, but they
also detect ultraviolet rays, which are
not visible to humans. The tests in-
dicate, as well, that both male and
female boll weevils may possess a type
of color vision.

The researchers feel that the instru-

LEFT—A steel wire probe sharpened by acid and attached to a or
Magniﬁcation is more than 100 times.

of a boll weevil.

through probes, ampliﬁed, and recorded in the laboratory.
electrical signal (top) believed to have originated in the ret

 

TESTING BOLL WEEVIL VISION

Sight studies: Part of search for new control methods

mentation and techniques used in this
study may be applied with equal suc-
cess to similar studies with other in-
sects. Here, brieﬂy is the procedure
they followed:

Ten boll weevils—ﬁve male and
ﬁve female—were selected and exam-
ined individually. Each was anes-
thetized with carbon dioxide, attached
to a cork platform with tacky wax,
and placed inside a metal enclosure.
Then a steel Wire probe, sharpened
by acid and attached to a crystal detec-
tor, was placed on the corneal sur-
face of the insect’s eye. Another was
inserted into its snout.

Upon exposure to various colors of
light, the eye generated an electrical
signal which is believed to originate
in the retina. This signal was re-
ceived through the probes, ampliﬁed,
and recorded in the laboratory as a
curve (or electroretinogram) on an

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
    
 

   
    

” ‘1

 

Physicist D. L. Mordue adjusts a
probe to the retina of a weevil’s eye
before stimulating the insect with
a light beam.
oscilloscope. By noting which inten-
sities of speciﬁc colors of light pro-
duced a constant signal, the scientists
were able to determine which colors
were most easily detected by the insect.
Most of these readings were begun
in the afternoon or evening of one day
and concluded in the morning of the
following day. Some were taken [con-
tinuously for as long as 3 days after a
probe was positioned on the corneal

surfaced?

ystal detector takes electrical signals from the eye
RIGHT—Signals from a boll weevil’s eye are received

When exposed to various colors of light, the eye generates an
ina. Photocell signals (below) indicate when lights are on.

  

AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH

   
  

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

Using bacterium plus light, scientists produce the disease in laboratory studies

I A combination of bright sunlight
and the bacterium, Moraxella bovis,
probably causes pink-eye in cattle,
say ARS scientists who produced the
disease under controlled conditions at
the National Animal Disease Labora-
tory, Ames, Iowa.

Pink-eye is known scientiﬁcally as
infectious keratitis and was ﬁrst rec-
ognized as a contagious cattle disease
in 1889. Common in all areas of the
world, the disease is most frequent in
the summer but may occur in any
season.

The disease affects only the eyes of
cattle, «causing pain, temporary loss
of sight, and ulcers. In severe cases,
the eyeball may be destroyed. Be-
cause cattle cannot ﬁnd their way
about pastures to graze, they give less
milk and often injure themselves by

The effects of the bacterium and
light can be seen in this series of
photographs, taken at ﬁxed times after
infection. (A) At 4 days, a marked
change is seen, although secretion was
above normal; (B) at 8 days, a dark
band has formed at the outer edge of
the cornea, and the remainder of the
cornea is more opaque; (C) at 19
days, the width of the band has
greatly increased and the central por-
tion of the cornea is much smaller;
(D) after 92 days, the cornea has
begun to heal, and the pupil can be
seen. The central dense soar in most
cases is permanent. (The spot of light
in photos A, B, and D is reflected
from the flash- camera.)

..SEPTEMBER 1965

falling into ditches, or waterholes.

To study the disease, D. E. Hughes,
G. W. Pugh, and T. J. McDonald iso-
lated three groups of heal-thy cattle in
air ﬁltered, windowless rooms. The
eyes of one group were inoculated
with pure cultures of M. bovis, the
bacterium often found in eyes of cattle
suffering from pink-eye; a second
group was exposed. to sunlamps for
various lengths of time; and a third
group received a combination of the
bacteria and light.

 

The scientists found that M. bovis
inoculation alone caused only a mild
disease, while M. bovis plus daily
doses of light caused severe cases of
keratitis. Excessive doses of light
also caused eye injury.

The scientists plan further studies
of the interaction of light and M.
bovis, using smaller doses of each.
They will also explore the possible
role of other agents isolated from ﬁeld
cases of keratitis—in their search for
ways to cure or prevent this diseased?

13

 




 

DATE HA‘RVESTING'.’
ALL BY MACHINE IN 1967

ABS—California engineers work with industry

to meohcmize picking

I Within the next 2 years, nearly all
of the Nation’s crop of California
dates is expected to be harvested and
handled mechanically.

This achievement, if realized, will
be due largely to the efforts of agri~
cultural engineers of ABS and the
University of California Agricultural
Work-

ing cooperatively with the date indus-

Experiment Station at Davis.

try, these scientists have successfully
concluded studies and testing of equip-
ment and methods for mechanically
harvesting and handling dates.

When G. K. Brown of ABS and
R. M. Perkins of California began the
work in 1961, the 40,000,000-pound

date crop was picked almost entirely /
by hand. Using
methods developed in the Brown and
Perkins study (AGR. RES, March
1964, p. 7), date growers mechanized
about one-third (12,000,000 pounds)

of last year’s harvesting operations.

equipment and

The man-hours required for harvest-
ing this part of the crop were reduced
about 75 percent.

Up to three-quarters of the crop
should be harvested mechanically next
year, followed by Virtually complete
mechanization 2 years hence. At
that time, the researchers estimate,

total harvesting costs should be about
$300,000 below the current levels/’1;

 

 




 

Thin egg shells: Too much water?

Thin shells on market eggs don’t
come about because chickens drink
more water than usual, according to
ARS research. Since hens do drink
extra water in hot weather and egg
shells get thinner at the same time, a
connection could be assumed.

One investigator backed up this
suspicion with a plausible assumption.
He knew that when a chicken is in-
jected with a diuretic (a substance
that causes the body to produce an
unusual amount of urine), the bird
lays eggs with thinner shells. The in-
vestigator postulated that production
of urine requires calcium, as does egg-
shell formation. In theory, more
calcium going into the production of
urine means less calcium available for
egg shells.

ARS poultry physiologists pursued
the “urine-competition” question from
another angle, however. They rea-
soned from the established knowledge
that when the posterior lobe of the
,pituitary gland is removed from a
chicken, the bird drinks large amounts
of water. It therefore produces three
to eight times more urine than before
the operation. If excess urine did tie
up calcium, a chicken without the lobe
should lay eggs with thin shells.

Using a relatively simple surgical
technique devised by ARS, the physi-
ologists operated on hens and exam-
ined eggs laid while the chickens
drank the large amounts of water.
The results: Shells were normal, n0
thinner than those produced by con-
trol chickens—those that did not un-

SEPTEMBER 1965

dergo the simple surgical operation.

Although the scientists as yet do-
not know what causes thinner egg
shells in hot weather, they have dis-
proved the “urine-competition” idea.

Designed: A portable rainmaker

A portable rain machine that can
be pulled from one ﬁeld test plot to
another, by hand or with a small trac-
tor, has been developed by an ARS
agricultural engineer.

Erosion-control researchers use rain
machines in evaluating rainfall runoff
and soil loss on test plots that have
been mulched or planted to crops.
Most rain machines are complex and
comparatively expensive; they require
a trained crew to operate and are
usually cumbersome to move.

N. P. Swanson developed and mo-
bilized the rain machine, adapting it
from a commercial rotating-boom

sprinkler. The Nebraska Agricul-
tural Experiment Station cooperated
in the work which was conducted at
Lincoln.

Built on a trailer, the machine has
10 rotating booms that look like wheel
spokes radiating from a hub. The
booms are attached to an upright,
axle-like pipe with irrigation couplers.

Water ﬂows up through the axle
and out the booms to calibrated spray
nozzles. Each boom has three noz-
zles, and each nozzle is controlled with
a separate valve. When all nozzles
are open, the machine rains 5 inches
per hour.

A small air-cooled gasoline engine
rotates the axle and booms so that
the nozzles simulate continuous and
even rainfall.

Once the water supply is discon-
nected, the machine can be moved
from one test plot to another in the
same ﬁeld in less than 30 minutes.

This portable rainfall machine can be moved from one test plot
to another without disturbing stationary measuring

equipment or plots.

Its 10 rotating booms produce a continuous

and even fall of water at adjustable rates.

 




 

 

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

DIVISION OF PUBLIC DOCUMENTS, WASHINGTON. D.C. 20402

OFFICIAL BUSINESS

Volunteer plants reduce seed purity

Production of red clover seed from
a given planting should be limited to
1 year when the goal is 100 percent
varietal purity.

This conclusion was reached by
ARS agronomist P. E. Dade in studies
on the survival of “volunteer” plants
in red clover seed ﬁelds at Prosser,
Wash. The research was cooperative
with the Washington Agricultural Ex-
periment Stations.

Under normal management condi-
tions, seed lost during harvest and. left
to produce volunteer plants exceeds
As. a re-
sult, volunteer plants produce seed

the original seeding rate.

that becomes mixed with and contami-
nates seed of plants from the original
sowing.

Volunteer plants represent ad-
vanced generations. that may differ
from the pure variety. If a large
number of these volunteer plants, ca-
pable of producing pollen and seed,
are growing in a commercial seed
ﬁeld, they can alter the identity and
purity of a red clover variety.

To study the survival of volunteer
plants, Dade: broadcast and row
planted a strain of red clover that
lacks the normal crescent leaf mark-
ing. The plantings were made on
plots that were free of red clover seed.
These plots were mowed the ﬁrst sea-
son before seed matured to prevent
shattering of seed from the original
plants. Then at normal harvest time,

seed of a leaf-marked variety was

16

broadcast over all plots to represent
seed shattered during harvest opera-
tions.

By the second and third crop years,
Dade found that volunteer plants——
the leaf-marked variety—comprised a
signiﬁcant part of the total plant pop-
ulation. The percentage of volunteer
plants in rows was nearly as high as
in broadcast stands and in some plots,
volunteer plants were producing up to
50 percent of the seed harvested by
the third year.

Mass producing boll weevils

New techniques for producing and
collecting boll weevil eggs are helping
to cut costs and speed mass rearing of
the weevils for use in research on new
control methods.

Unlike some insects, which lay great
numbers of eggs in a short period, boll
weevil females lay only a few eggs a
day over a 4- to 6-week span. Until
now, producing and collecting these
eggs have cost about a cent each.

ARS entomologist R. T. Cast, work-
ing with the Mississippi Agricultural
Experiment Station, has developed
techniques that lower the cost to a cent
per hundred eggs—a considerable sav-
ing in View of the millions of weevils
needed in testing male sterility, insect
pathogens, and other new methods of
controlling this destructive cotton
pest.

Cast developed the techniques by
improving several steps in the rearing
process. First he redesigned the

PENALTY FOR PRIVATE USE TO AVOID
PAYMENT OF POSTAGE, $300
(GPO)

cages in which the weevil females lay
This boosted egg produc-
He next devised a

their eggs.
tion 50 percent.
way to mass produce up to 11,000 diet
pellets (substitutes for cotton squares)
per man hour. Since the pellets were

then readily available, and much

cheaper, more pellets and weevils
could be used. This increased egg

And the ready
availability of pellets made it feasible

output still more.

to change them in the cages twice a
day, which increased egg production
another 50 percent.

Finally, Gast’s methods allow the
researchers to use only younger,
higher egg-laying females (1 to 15
days old) for egg production. The
older insects (15 to 30 days old) can
be used in producing pathogen.

Our mistake—It’s the same insect

The June 1965 issue of AGRICUL-
TURAL RESEARCH carried an arti-
cle on “Sesame . . . Attacked by to-
bacco budwor‘ms and corn earwor‘ms.”
This article incorrectly cited the cot-
ton bollworm and the corn earworm
as being different insects.

They are the same—Heliothis zea
Boddie—differing only in their com-
mon names, which are determined by
the crop they are attacking at the time.

AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICEHQSS

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

The “Bio-Science” Poultry System ingeniously adapts
the highly successful European F. A. R. M. cage for
laboratory use. The “P-l” Poultry Cage has had wide
acceptance throughout Europe where hundreds of
thousands are in daily use in commercial egg and
poultry factories.

These cages are molded from indestructable high
density polypropelene. This autoclavable cage is com-
pletely free of metal parts, and is completely impervious
to acids, alkalies and stains, and will not chip, crack
or corrode.

Although this system is extremely rigid when assembled,

it comes apart easily and stores in a completely flat
profile, in a fraction of the assembled space.

The “Bio-Science” Poultry System includes complete
PVC troughs for automatic watering and feeding.

Bio-Science offers a complete professional consulting service with respect
to architectural and engineering requirements for animal care projects.
This service is offered without obligation in the interest of good animal
care practice. You may feel free to call on us at your convenience.

BIO-SCIENCE INDUSTRIES INC.

400 WHARBURTON ST. - LONG BRANCH, N. J. 07740
Area Code (207) 229-3700

 




BIO—SCIENCE INDUSTRIES, INC. [3 400 WHARBURTON ST. 53- LONG BRANCH, N. J. 07740

Arm 201, 229-3100
August 4, 1967 . New York cm»; YUkon 43888

Dr. Dorothy J. Dyce

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE
Z3411 Margareta

Detroit, Michigan 48219

Dear Dr. Dyce:

' The recent flurry of legislative activity relating to laboratory animals on
both the National and State levels has brought some positive benefits. It
has focused attention on the acquisition of laboratory animals, animal
housing practices and procedures, andthe need to up—grade facilities.

We at Bio-Science are proud that all the items we have ever manufactured
meet today's criteria and regulation for good animal care practice. Our
patented canine system is being installed in new and remodeled facilities
in many of America's leading medical schools, hospitals, and research
centers. A list of our current installations in your area will be sent upon
request.

Over the past year we have received numerous requests for animal cages
of similar quality and method of fiberglass lamination as employed in our
canine cage. As a result of this enthusastic response a complete line of
cat, rabbit, primate, and special application caging is currently in pro-
duction. In addition, we have added metabolic cages, a complete selection
of dip tanks, sophistocated oxygen equipment, Operating pallets, and other
advanced products. We are pleased to enclose literature on several of
these new products, and information on the additional items will be nailed
to you in the near future.

We have recently completed the development of a dog cage line utilizing

the dry system of cleaning. The dry cage was specifically designed to
meet the requirements for post-Operative care, including radiant heat and
air-conditioning. The dry cage also performs well where room flexibility
and easy movement of cages is a requirement. These individual cage units
range in price from $150.00 to $280.00, depending on size, door option,
and racking system. This cage system features our life-time guarantee,
cast-alurninum door.

DESIGNERS AND MANUFACTURERS OF SYSTEMS FOR LABORATORY ANIMAL CARE

 




Dr. Dorothy J. Dyce August 4:, 1967

Bio-Science provides a complete engineering consulting service, without
obligation, to assist in the planning of your animal housing facility and
equipment. We welcome the Opportunity of offering this service to review
your problems with the desire to provide a more complete service.

Since rely your 5 ,

-SCIENCE INDUSTRIES, INC.

M8 (4.4....

Frank B. Holman
Executive Vice-President

FBHzmna
Enclosures

 




 




a x,“ a;

w?” em:

.m
,

x
1,

 

“11..

. Hg

 

 

n ,
[mu WW

h My?” way":
..r "Ma“

z; ,r g

a.
.mrmxhn nun
Hmmmn. u u
‘w‘w‘ m5“

 




The “Bio-Science” modular dog cage system brings to the laboratory dog the
most comfortable, sanitary and maintenance free housing ever devnsed. Qne
piece ”Space Age” fiberglass construction assures a warm, noise-free, tenSIon-
free enclosure. The modular design and integral drain conserves expenSIve

INTEGRAL TROUGH floor space without reducing the interior size of the cage.

There are no external drainage troughs which occupy
space, prevent back to back installation, or contribute to excessive .m0isture
content to the animal room. The “Bio-Science” System features fiberglass
that forever ends the excessive heat loss of cold metal surfaces, and the resultant

chilling of animals. The K-3 and K-4 cage meet every existing criteria for good
laboratory animal practice.

The features of the “Bio-Science” system are so unique that they are covered
by United States Patent #3,177,848.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

Bio-Science Industries units are constructed of
durable fiberglass that withstands steam and is
unaffected by urine, acids and alkalies. Its smooth
surface permits easy cleaning, and encrustations
cannot form on the surface. The unique inner
core construction greatly diminishes noise. The
absence of temperature conduction makes the
cage surface comfortable for the animal and ren-
ders steam and hot-water cleaning more effective
than would be possible with metal and concrete.
All surfaces of the “Bio-Science” cage are non-
porous and will not permit the ova of ascaris or
other parasites to collect. Ticks and ectoparasites
cannot breed since there are no cracks or crevices.
This unique cage eliminates metal overlaps, welds,
seams and acute angles, thereby making interior
space readily accessible.

 




The ”Bio-Science” System

Assures the maximum sanitation with a minimum of labor.
One man can care for more dogs than with any other
system of individual housing. Daily cleaning is accom-
plished in moments by irrigating feces and other matter
into the self-contained rear trough. The rear trough is
then automatically flushed for the entire bank of cages
simultaneously straight into a floor drain or sewer pipe
located at the end of each bank. The cages will pay for
themselves in 30 months by their inherent labor saving
features. The Bio-Science cage system was designed to
assure maximal sanitation with the minimal manual effort.

 

 

 

in
(l

. all: 4
«MW
”93': 'é‘gu
MW?"
an .m.
. 3

Sn

ﬂ?

2.“ "E “a
“ s‘ﬁxﬁ‘l‘i‘xll‘l‘x _

 

age




$35

economy 0' Space The Bio-Science cage conserves expensive floor space without reducing the in-

terior size of the cage. With construction costs at an all time high, wasted space is wasted money. There are no ex-
terior drainage troughs which occupy space and are hard to clean. The Bio-Science cage has more features than the
costliest built-in tiled cage. Yet THEY CAN BE MOVED EASILY AT A LATER DATE. Installations can be made in single
banks or back to back.

san itatio n Odors are caused by bacterial contamination. Since there are no seams or crevices, feces cannot collect.
The superior surface finish makes it possible to wash off all traces of feces in seconds. Empty cages can be steam steri-
lized. There is no inaccessible space underneath the cage. There are no hard-to-clean legs around which dirt usually
accumulates. The body of the cage is covered to the floor.

coved corners throughOUt For easy cleaning, all vertical and horizontal corners are com-
pletely coved on a deep radius. This method is impractical in sheet metal construction. Large coved radii and elimina-
tion of corners are recommended by the National Sanitary Foundation to guard against accumulation of dirt.

E

 

 

 

 

 

 




caSti ngs Shelf, false bottom and doors are constructed

of light and indestructable cast aluminum. Although cast
aluminum is unique to the “Bio-Science” cage in the animal
care industry, what better way can a seamless one piece part
be constructed with coved corners? Warpage and wear and
tear on fabricated steel and aluminum doors has made early
replacement mandatory. The “Bio-Science” cast aluminum
doors are guaranteed against bending or breakage and
achieve an extraordinary weight to strength ratio designs.
Latches and hinges are made of stainless steel.

construction advantages “Bio-

Science” cages do not require costly and unsightly suspen-
sion to eliminate legs. There is no exposed surface under the
cage. This saves the time and labor required to clean an un-
used, inaccessible surface which accumulates dirt. Also,
there is no undersurface to the floor of the cage to harbor
contaminants. Unlike built-in or concrete cages, “Bio-Sci-
ence” cages are light-weight and do not require expensive
pre—stressed floors.

 

 

”m... a an ”A,
.m urges-
u H F 9 r n ”5'“

 

 

-A-rAﬁn .“4

 




H<4-AA—~——-e

 

 

 

 

automatic drinking device

A water-feeding device which is removable for sterilization is
a standard feature of the cage.

radiant heating (at additional cost) The unique

inner core construction of Polyurethane foam not only grants
superior sound proofing, but the inherent insulating value of
the foam makes radiant heating of the cage economical as well.
Radiant heating of this type is important in the post operative
care of dogs by providing a warm surface to rest upon. Further-
more, in large areas where heating total space is impractical,
radiant heating of each cage can provide a satisfactory solution.
Metal cages are not suited to radiant heating systems.

air conditioning A provision for central air con-

ditioning of the “Bio-Science” system is available at additional
cost where desired.

 

other teatu res

A stainless steel feed pan is recessed into a seamless opening.
The spill-proof pan drops into place instantly. No time is lost
in fastening and unfastening bowls with hard-to-clean springs
and pins. It is unnecessary to open the door to feed the animal.

‘~' 1

 




L/S T OF

Bio-Science offers a complete professional consulting service with respect
to architectural and engineering requirements for animal care projects.
This service is offered without obligation in the interest of good animal
care practice. You may feel free to call on us at your convenience.

BIO-SCIENCE INDUSTRIES INC.

00 WHARBU
0N6 BRANCH,
rea Code ( 207) 229

 




BIO-SCI ENCE INDUSTRIES
400 Wharburton St., Long Branch, N.J. 07740

PHONE Av GRAM

USE A BIO-SCIENCE PHONE-A-GRAM FOR IMMEDIATE
INFORMATION FROM OUR ENGINEERING AND SALES OFFICES

Another PLUS-SERVICE from BIO-SCIENCE

. \
FILL IN ‘ biz BIO-SCIENCE INDUSTRIES A CUSTOMER
AND MAIL SERVICE T0
TO I ll [IQ )IQ v A fG A iVll MAKE YOUR
BIO-SCIENCE P E R JOB EASIER

I WOULD LIKE TO DISCUSS:

CI TECHNICAL INFORMATION D CONSULTING SERVICE

El LITERATURE _ E] PRICES D DELIVERY

[:I INFORMATION PERTAINING TO ORDER NO.

[3 OTHER

 

NAME

 

 

INSTITUTION
BEST TIME TO CALL CITY & STATE

, C

FILL IN bgl BID-SCIENCE INDUSTRIES A CUSTOMER

AND MAIL SERVICE TO
PHQNIE‘A'GRAM

I WOULD LIKE TO DISCUSS:

CI TECHNICAL INFORMATION [3 CONSULTING SERVICE

PHONE NO. A.
p

 

 

 

E] LITERATURE D PRICES E] DELIVERY

D INFORMATION PERTAINING TO ORDER NO.

CI OTHER

 

NAME

 

 

PHONE NO.
ﬁ'm' INSTITUTION

BEST TIME TO CALL CITY & STATE

 

 

 

 




_ ‘ -
FIRST CLASS

Permit No. 12
Deal, N. J.

 

.I

 

 

 

VIA AIR MAIL

 

BUSINESS REPLY MAIL
No Postage Stamp Necessary If Mailed In The UnIted States

 

 

 

POSTAGE WILL BE PAID BY:
BIO-SCIENCE INDUSTRIES INC,
BOX 152
DEAL, NEW JERSEY 07723

L'

 

FIRST CLASS
Permit No. 12
Deal, N. J.

 

 

 

VIA AIR MAIL

 

BUSINESS REPLY MAIL
No Postage Stamp Necessary If Mailed In The United States

 

 

 

POSTAGE WILL BE PAID BY:
BIO-SCIENCE INDUSTRIES INC.
BOX 152
DEAL, NEW JERSEY 07723

_‘ -

 




SHELF

 

Compare this moulded shelf feature to any other
cage you may have seen. The cage answers all
needs that research indicates as requirements
for feline environmental comfort.

DOOR

 

Indestructible lifetime cast aluminum door, that
eliminates cracks and crevices, with all corners
coved. Identification holders and dish holders
are neatly cast as an integral functional part of
the door.

STACKING

 

The cage is mounted independently, stacking
vertically, one upon another in our unique self-
locking design. This system eliminates the need
for special racks or angle iron frames to hold
the cages. An animal room can be completely
assembled in minutes. Cages may be mounted
on dolly frames for rapid movement to cage
washing areas.

 

Bio-Science offers a complete professional con-
sulting service with respect to architectural and
engineering requirements for animal care proj-
ects. This service is offered without obligation in
the interest of good animal care practice. You
may feel free to call on us at your convenience.

 

The “Bio-Science” System brings to the laboratory cat,
the most comfortable housing ever devised. One piece
“space age” fiberglass plastic construction, assures a
warm, noise-free, tension-free enclosure. Consideration
is given to the peculiar characteristics of feline needs as
a special moulded shelf is an integral part of the cage
assembly. The normal thermal conductivity of cold met-
al surfaces is responsible for heat loss and uncomfort-
able for animals. The “Bio-Science” Systems feature
fiberglass that ends forever the excessive heat loss and
chilling of animals. The F-10 Cage meets every known
criteria for good animal practice.

The “Bio-Science” System offers a flexibility never be-
fore available. Cages may be installed in our unique,
self-mounting frames to assemble batteries of any num-
ber of units or a special design may be engineered for
your particular application.

The “Bio-Science” System assures maximum sanitation
with a minimum of labor. One piece moulded smooth
surface with coving, outmodes corners, cracks and crev-
ices. The cage resists attack by urine, acids and alkalies.
These units lend themselves to all ordinary methods of
sanitizing, such as steam cleaning, cage washers and
other similar methods. With normal maintenance pro-
grams, the cages should pay for themselves in 36
months by their inherent labor-saving features.

BIO-SCIENCE INDUSTRIES INC.

400 WHARBURTON ST. - LONG BRANCH. N. J. 07740
Area Code (207) 229-3700

 




 

 

Bio-Science “Group Cat Cages” are available in
two popular sizes, nine square feet and fourteen
square feet.

The nine square foot cage is recommended for
three adult cats and the fourteen square foot
cage for five adult cats. lVlost laboratories utilize
the nine square foot unit for breeding purposes.

All Bio-Science Cage Systems are designed to
more than adequately meet all Federal require-
ments for good animal practice.

SHELVES

 

Shelf assemblies consist of shelves and brackets
and are easily removed for sanitizing and
cleaning.

STACKING

 

Complete flexibility is available with Bio—Science
“Group Cat Cages”. These cages may be mounted
independently with our unique “self-lok” racking
system or installed permanently in modular
frames.

DOORS

 

“Group Cat Cage” doors are provided in several
laboratory options. Stainless Steel, Chrome
Plated or Epoxy Coated steel doors are available.
All doors are manufactured with the special cast
“Bio-Science” disholders as an integral part of
their construction.

 

 

 

Bio-Science offers a complete professional con-
sulting service with respect to architectural and
engineering requirements for animal care proj-
ects. This service is offered without obligation in
the interest of good animal care practice. You
may feel free to call on us at your convenience.

BIO-SCIENCE INDUSTRIES INC.

400 WHARBHRTON ST. - LONG BRANCH, N. J. 07740

Area Code (207) 229-3700

 




.

Bio-Science Industries offers a fully engineered line of “Dip

Tanks” specifically designed for laboratory use. Available in

a variety of sizes, these mobile units allow you to provide the

ultimate in animal health and sanitation. A unique filter/heater

L42 W assembly provides a continuous flow of water and solution at
a specified temperature. Hair, dirt and foreign matter can be

X 18 X D30 removed while tank is in use, thus expensive solutions may be

re-used, time after time. The continuous flow of clean and

ONE PIECE CONSTRUCTION heated bath solution saves time and makes this unit available
Space age indestructable rigid Fiberglass. Wall for use in minutes. The coved corners and one piece body

thiCkness 0“ 3/8” makes. unit. comp'ete'y .dimen' construction make cleaning simple and pleasant.
Sionally stable — no distortion from weight of

water. Coved corners throughout chemically
resistant surface.

 

MULTl—PURPOSE FIBERGLASS TANKS

FILTER/PUMP ASSEMBLY Bio-Science fiberglass tanks are available in nine
C . . . . . . convenient shapes and sizes to meet a multitude of
ontinual filtering action removes hair, dirt and ' b t
foreign matter from bath solution at rate of 7.5 a ora my ”385'

gallons Per minute- Teflon impellor ,UneffeCted These tanks adapt themselves readily to all forms of
by solutions, brine and metal inhibiting agents.

Tank is emptied by pumping action. marine biology. All elements manufactured for marine
use are imperVious to the chemical action of salt water
and other solutions.

ELECTRIC HEATER For special information, please write.

Radiant heating elements laminated in the walls
of the tank, at additional cost, maintains a L W H Gallons
constant water temperature of 75 degrees. DT-1 40 18 3O 85
T-50 24 24 24 50

T-65 33 22 22 65

 

MOBILITY

Large ball bearing castors make unit completely _
mobile and easy to move. One dip tank can serve T 85 41 27 21 85

many animal rooms. Conserves valuable building T-1OO 35 25 27 100

space.
T-125 4O 29 28 125

Bio-Science offers a complete professional con- T'15O 36 32 34 150
sulting service with respect to architectural and _

engineering requirements for animal care proj- T175 44 32 32 175
ects. This service is offered without obligation in 11250 48 36 38 250
the interest of good animal care practice. You
may feel free to call on us at your convenience.

 

 

 

 

BIO-SCIENCE INDUSTRIES INC.

400 WHARBURTON ST. - LONG BRANCH, N. J. 07740

 




February 25 , 1952

TO: Members of the Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology:

, Dear Member: -

In 1946 I wrore the following letter to Dr. Carlson pertaining to the National Society of Medical Research, then in

process of organization.
February 8, 1946

Dr. A. J. Carlson
Department of Physiology
University of Chicago
Chicago, Illinois

Dear Doctor Carlson:

My answer to your letter of January 26th is delayed
due to the absence of Dean Furstenberg from the city. I
have spoken to him since his return and he asks me to
tell you that he is in sympathy with the objecrives of the
National Commission for the Protection of Medical Sci-
ences. He also has every expectation that the University
will subscribe $300. 00 towards financial support.

You will find enclosed signatures of members of my
department urging financial support of the commission
by our Federation.

If the work of the commission is well done it will
be a great contribution to the biological sciences for we
need a comprehensive education of all concerned. In
that connectionl would like to suggest that the commisj-
sion give attention to the education of the men of sci-
ence as well as of the public for in my opinion much of
our trouble originates in our own ranks. I am not one of
those who believe that the conditions of animal experi-
mentation are ideal. I believe the commission could
raise the question whether the experimental animal is
receiving the consideration to which he is entitled par-
ticularly as regards survival experiments in which the
animal is likely to suffer. It is my experience that
there are always a number of us who may be too sure of
man's privileges to experiment on the lower forms. Some
system of scrutinizing the soundness of biological prob-
lems and the skill and wisdom and consideration of the
scientist would do much to convince the public that our
minds are open to all sides of the problem. I doubt the

wisdom of a policy which offers no supervision of animal
experimentation whatever. ' The surest way of preventing
interference from the outside by enactment of laws re-
stricting experimentation is to convince the public that
we ourselves see the soundness of proper supervision. Our
committee should be best qualified to accept the re-
sponsibility of this supervision.

I will be on the look-out for you at the meetings.

Sincerely yours,

Robert Gesell

RB/mb

(See more recent correspondence below.)

Dr. Walter B. Cannon, the late Professor of Physiology
at Harvard, had seen the need of a restraining force to
contain man's curiosity within proper bounds of experi-
mental procedure and as a result of his efforts, labora-
tories throughout the land voluntarily posted a code of
experimental ethics. The fine influence from which this
movement started was, however, doomed to suffer from
the lack of a continuity of moral supervision.

Burke, the great statesman, saw in continuity of insti-
tutions the best guarantee to their improvement. The
shocking effects that come from total absence of restraint
are revealed in the following article reprinted with the
permission of the Lancet and the Universities Federation
of Animal Welfare.

 

 




 

ANIMALS

A Reprint from the Lancet

EXPERIMENTS ON

,____. M.-.‘._ -. .__.......

Explanatory note :

Two letters were published under the above heading in the Lancet of the 6th August, 1949, and a leading
article on the subject appeared in the same issue. All three are reprinted here by kind permission of the Editor.

Although the signatories of the letters acted in their individual capacities and not as representing any
organization or profession, it may be of interest that four of them hold or have held Home Office licences for
experiments on animals, three are Fellows of the Royal Society, and all are members of UFAW. Dr. John R,
Baker is Lecturer in Zoology and Reader in Cytology in the University of Oxford, and a founder of the Society
for Freedom in Science ; Prof. Sir Frederic Bartlett, F.R.S., is Director of the Psychological Laboratory in the
University of Cambridge, and former Editor of the British Journal of Psychology ; Prof. A. C. Hardy, F.R.S,, is
Linacre Professor of Zoology and Comparative Anatomy in the University of Oxford ; Prof. E. Hindle, F.R.S., is
Scientiﬁc Director of the Zoological Society and General Secretary of the British Association for the Advancement
of Science, formerly Professor of Biology in the School of Medicine, Cairo, Milner Research Fellow, London School
' of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, and Regius Professor of Zoology in the University of Glasgow; Major OW.
Hume was formerly Editor to the Physical Society and Hon. Secretary of the British Science Guild ; Dr. W. R.
Wooldridge is founder and Director of the Animal Health Trust, formerly Beit Memorial Fellow for Medical
Research, Hon. Secretary of the Veterinary Research Club and President of the National Veterinary Medical
Association ; Prof. F. Golla is Director of the Burden NeurolOgical Institute, and was formerly Professor of the
Pathology 0f Mental Disorders in the University of London and Director of the Central Pathological Laboratory

for Research in Mental Diseases.

Letters to the Editor of the Lancet.

SIR,———What amount of suffering is it legitimate to
inﬂict in the course of experiments on animals? The
question has arisen from a study of some. papers
published in recent years and describing Canadian and
American experiments calculated to inﬂict the marti-
mum of injury consistent with the temporary survival
of the animals, which are then studied physiologically.
A special machine has been designed in which un—
anaesthetized rats, with paws bound together, are
dropped 40 times per minute. In one experiment 10
rats were subjected to 700 falls in 17% minutes and died
on the average 50 minutes later ', another 10 subjected
to 800 falls in 20 minutes died on the average in 47
minutes. The animals were not unconscious. In another
eXperiment 30 dogs, temporarily anaesthetized, had
their thigh muscles contused by-700 to 1000 blows with
a light raw-hide mallet on each leg. The anaesthetic
was then at once discontinued ; 25 of the dogs died after
intervals varying from 50 minutes to about 9 hours.
References to the papers, describing these and other
exceptionally painful procedures will be given to
responsible inquirers on request.

We should be the last to underrate the importance of
experiments on animals, but that importance does not
override all other considerations. There must be a limit
to the doctrine that the end justiﬁes the means. The
1912 report of the Royal Commission on Vivisection,
.5 of whose 7 signatories were eminent medical men,
recommended the principle that is now embodied in the
pain rule attached to British vivisection licences : “ If
an animal at any time is found to be suffering severe
pain which is likely to endure, such animal shall forth-
with be painlessly kiiled.” This rule applies even when

Further particulars of each signatory will be found in W 120’s Who.

the main object of the experiment has not been
attained.“

We therefore inviteScientists to assert with us that
treatments of the kind to which we have referred at the
beginning of this letter are to be condemned as shocking
to a normal human conscience. We suggest that in
planning his procedure every experimenter should
earnestly consider whether the inﬂiction of the pain
involved is really justiﬁable in the interests of medicine
or science, and try to devise techniques that will
reduce suffering to a minimum.

C. W. HUME
A.‘C. HARDY
' JOHN R. BAKER

W. R. WOOLDRIDGE.
E. HINDLE
F. C. BARTLETT

SIR,——Despite the attacks of anti—vivisectionists, the
necessity for animal experimentation for the relief of
human suffering is more and more generally accepted.
The public realises that laboratory experiments per—
formed under licence in this country, after their
desirability has been justiﬁed to the satisfaction of the
appointed medical authorities, are invariably con—
ducted with humanity. ‘

It is because of the trust that has thus been accorded
by the general public that it is incumbent on the
medical profession to refuse to condone, by silence,
unjustiﬁable inﬂiction of suffering on animals. A series
of experiments have lately been recorded under the
title of Effect of Chronic Fear on the Gastric Secretion
of HCl in Dogs. I do not wish at this juncture to

discuss the scientiﬁc validity of the experiments or the

 

 




 

 

conclusions drawn, but to call attention to the cruelty
with which they were conducted. .

Seven dogs were used—~as a preliminary they were
operated on to render them incapable of barking. The
animals were kept in metal screen cages, and, in the
words of the author, an attempt was made to induce
and maintain a state of chronicxfear in the animals by
strong electric shocks administered to the animals

through specially constructed grids making up the'

floor of the cages. Combined with this form of stimula-
tion was an electric buzzer which might act either with
or independently of the shock; The stimulus was
administered by a mechanical device permitting some
randomisation of the intervals between the stimuli—
74 stimulations being administered within _, each
succeeding twelve—hour period. During the night the
grids were often short-circuited by faeces; otherwise,
the dogs were stimulated at irregular intervals night
and day. The experimental period lasted six months.

During this period an occasional break of a few days
allowed control measurements of HCl secretion to
be performed on the resting animal. Otherwise, the
arrangements for arbusing in the dogs a state of
chronic fearand intermittent .pain for a continuous
period of six months seem to have been effective.

Science and humanity know no frontiers and no-one
who knows the selﬂess devotiOn- and humanity of our
American colleagues would doubt that a more general
knowledge of these, experiments at present hidden in a
specialised periodical Would arouse Widespread indigna-
tion. It would surely in some degree, involve us all in
the dishonour that Such practices cast on medical
research were we to ignore them for fear that attention
drawn to them might furnish communition for un-
scrupulous arguments of antiovivisectionists.

F. GOLLA.

Newlands, Frenchay, near Bristol.

LEADING ARTICLE from the “LANCET” of 6th August, 1949

Experiments on Animals.
MOST people in Great Britain regard laboratory

experiments on animals as an unpleasant necessity. ,

They accept the practice because so much good has
come of it ; but they have ensured by legislation that
it shall be used as Soaringly as possible, kept in the
hands of those believed to he humane and responsible,
and safeguarded by legal "reStrlctions frOm abuse.
This position has not been reached by following any
principle to its logiczal'conclusion. Indeed, principles
carried to that extreme, and then used as rules of
conduct, often prove cruel or silly or both. Clearly
it is as wrong to let a child die unnecessarily of diph—
theria as it is to regard all animals as a lower creation
designed to suffer for the beneﬁt of man. Though
both attitudes can be justiﬁed on principle, both
offend our humanity. We are thus compelled to
treat this like other moral dilemmas, and pick our
way uneasily along a middle course, never wholly at
peace with our conSc'iences, but at least sparing them
the ﬁnal outrage of one gross evil or the other.

Certainly the compromise owes nothing to callous~
ness. As long ago as 1871 the British Association for
the Advancement. of Science resolved that no experi-
ment which can be. time under an anmsthetic should
be done without it. that no painful experiment is
justiﬁable for the mere purpose of illustrating a law
or fact already demonstrated (i.e., such experiments
should not be used' inteaching) ; and that when, to
obtain a new fact, it is necessary to undertake a
painful experiment, every effort should be made to
ensure success, so that pain is not inﬂicted uselessly.
The Cruelty to Animals Act of 1876 was founded on
this outline; it Obliges' those who wish to conduct
painful experiments, or “ any procedure. calculated to
interfere with the normal health and comfort of an
animal,” to obtain a licence from the Home Secretary ;

and it further requires that an animal suffering from
’ severe pain which is likely to endure should forthwith

be painlessly killed, whether the main object of the
experiment has been attained or not. Moreover,
there is now a well-grown opinion among scientists
that animals should not be used in. large numbers for
painful experiments of the facts can be "established

' Ecrually well by the use of a few. Within this frame of.

regulations and customs it is possible to limit painful
experiments to a very small proportion of experiments
as a whole, and to ensure that the suffering experienced ‘
is not severe or prolonged.

In other Western European countries, and in
America, though most scientists doubtless impose on
themselves the same humane scale of values, there
are not the same stringent legal safeguards. It will
always happen that the tough—minded and the
tender—minded will differ over what constitutes
suffering for others, whether humans or animals, and
there will thus always be a scatter round the mean
of ordinary practice in the conduct of experiments.
But there may also be examples at which the average
laboratory worker and the ordinary citizen alike revolt,
as is shown in our correspondence columns this week.
CHARLES DARWIN held that to inﬂict any pain which
is not absolutely necessary deserves “ detestation

and abhorrence,” and all research-workers of integrity

subscribe to this judgment. They know that to
apply the criterion of necessity calls for unremitting
care and attention; but they also know that it can
and must be done. Since the pursuit of a new fact
can sometimes engross the mind almost completely,
they recognise that they must always be on guard;
and that wherever their keenness may have impaired
their sense of proportion they should seek the help and
criticism of colleagues. In the cases cited by our
correspondents the essential criterion was not applied.

Reprinted, by kind permission of the Editor of the Lancet, by UFAW (The Universities Federation for Animal
' Welfare), 284 Regent’s Park Road. Finchley, London, N.3.

 




More recently a study on drowning of 160 dogs in fresh
water has come to my attention. It describes how these
creatures were strapped to a dog board in the supine posi-
tion, how a specially constructed reservoir, devised to
ﬂood the upper respiratory passages, was affixed to the
neck and how the dogs were then drowned and studied
free of complications of general anaesthesia.

These ominous experiments make us search our souls
and wonder what the future has in store for us, for they
remind us so inescapably of the "Doctors of Infamy, "
(Henry Schuman, New York), who performed terminal
experiments on men and women without the use of an-
aesthesia. They become all the more ominous when it
is taken into consideration that they were performed on
creatures as sentient as man and in a free and happy
country, and not under duress of a harsh government
barbarized by global warfare. In the concentration
camps, atrocities were sanctioned by the command-
ment that "Necessity knows no laws. ” In university
laboratories they are presumably justified by the princi-
ple that "The end justifies the means. " The studies on
the drowning of these dogs were published in a journal
sponsored by the Federation.

These experiments pose a number of difficult questions.
For example, how much inﬂiction of pain and discomfort
on experimental animals are the people prepared to con-
done? What are the limitations, in animal experimenta-
tion, of the principle that the end justifies the means? Is
it wise to endanger the spiritual values of society by cheap
popularization of medical science in pictorial magazines,
thereby creating a callousness towards animal experimen—
tation? Is it a desireable objective to weaken and con-
fuse the humane societies of this country even though
such procedure insures abundant flow of animals into ex-
perimental laboratories?

A recently organized Animal Welfare Institute is at-
tempting to study questions of this nature in the hope
that equitable or at least partial answers will be found.
The broad objectives of the Institute have been stated in
clear, concise and unmistakeable terms. AS outlined
in its prospectus, the aim of the Institute will be:

"’To promote the welfare of all animals.

."To reduce the total pain and fear inflicted on ani-
mals by man.

While the Institute is interested in every phase of ani-
mal welfare, it will, at present, concern itself particu-
larly with humane safeguards in the use of animals for
research and medicine.

On the urgent problems of laboratory animals, the
Institute will have the following immediate aims:

1. Care: The establishment of a code for the han-
dling and use of a laboratory animals.

2. Research: The encouragement of medical research

 

of the highest possible quality as opposed
to mere quantity.

3. Procurement Programs: The survey of existing -and
proposed programs for the procurement
of laboratory animals in an effdrttto dis-
cover the best possible method of satis-
fying the needs of humanity in the ad-
vancement of medicine, public health,
agriculture, etc. , without jeopardizing
practical animal welfare work of the
general advancement of humanity through
increasing consideration for all living
creatures. "

 

Though the Institute is less than a year old and though
it has not yet formulated policies of implementation, its
conservative position has been attacked from both sides
with a fanaticism less becoming the medical sciences
than the anti-vivisectionists who are allegedly guided by
sentiment alone.

The Animal Welfare Institute has from the very outset
invited exchange of ideas from all quarters and has re-
ceived helpful suggestions from members of the Federation
and in continuation of the policy of mutual cooperation
the Institute also made formal application for a boath at
the forthcoming meeting of the Federation of American
Societies of Experimental Biology to present the results
of its studies to members who wish such-information. The
following two letters will reveal the position which the
executive committee of the Federation has taken in re-
gard to the Animal Welfare Institute.

FEDERATION OF AMERICAN SOCIETIES FOR EXPERIMENTAL BIOLOGY

2101 Constitution Avenue Washington 25, D. C.

January 15, 1952

Mrs. Christine Stevens, President
Animal Welfare Institute

730 Fifth Avenue

New York 19, New York

Dear Mrs. Stevens:

I have watched the development of the Animal Wel-
fare Institute with interest and with both some hope and
some misgivings. The hope was that certain portions
of your program, such as the matters of care, housing,
feeding and handling of animals would be emphasized
and made as a cooperative effort with the National So-
ciety for Medical Research. The misgivings were that
such an "on the fence" organization as the Institute might
fall over into the group of foolish, misguided, misan-
thropic, idle, mischievous or mercenary social perverts
who form the so-called antivivesection societies and who
have infiltrated the humane societies to a large extent.

From some conversation with your father, Dr. Gesell.
I had thought that the hopes might be realized. From

 




the statements made in the release of January 8 from

the New York State Society for Medical Research, how-
ever, I fear that the misgivings were well founded. Cer-
tainly the great majority of experimental biologists and
medical research investigators do nor want the counter-
part of the laws and regulations that the English have
imposed, and are entirely behind the Medical Research
Pound Bill pending in the New York State Assembly.

If there is a real and rational place for the Animal
Welfare Institute, it seems to me that it is in close
sympathy and cooperation with such groups as the New
York State Society for Medical Research1 and the Na-
tional Society for Medical Research, and not in the
orbit of the crackpot organizations. For example, ad-
vice and help on matters of laboratory care, housing,
sanitation, feeding and handling of animals are needed.
The methods of killing the enormous numbers of im-
pounded animals by city pounds and by " Humane" So-
cieties should be investigated. Some of their proce-
dures are ghastly and nauseating and should be changed.
Certainly no biologist would ever countenance such
cruel measures as these groups condone on the part of
their employees. 2 Your Institute could do a real
service in changing these conditions.

I hope that your Institute will consider most care-
fully its program of activities and its basic principles,
and that it will come to have a sense of social re-
sponsibility as keen and as true as that felt by the ex-
perimental biologisrs who work with living tissues.

Yours sincerely,

Footnote #1. The New York State Society for
Medical Research like the Federation, refuses to work
in "cooperation" with the Animal Welfare Institute
(see Federation Letter #2). It has officially severed
relations with this organization.

Footnote #2. The drowning of 160 dogs without
anaesthesia would seem to be countenanced by pub~
lication in a journal sponsored by the Federation.

An answer to an immediate request for detailed in-
formation which would help to correct the " ghastly
nauseating procedures" employed by Humane Societies
has up to this date not been received from the Federa-
tion.

FEDERATION OF AMERICAN SOCIETIES FOR EXPERIMENTAL BIOLOGY

2101 Constitution Avenue Washington 25, D. C.

January 25, 1952

Mrs. Christine Stevens, President
Animal Welfare Institute

730 Fifth Avenue

New York 19, New York

Dear Mrs. Stevens:

At the winter meeting of the Executive Committee
of the Federation on January 22, the request of the Ani-
mal Welfare Institute for exhibit or display space at the
coming Federation meetings, was considered and was
refused. At the same time, invitations to use exhibit
space were extended to certain other groups for present-
ing display material on animal care and experimental
use of animals.

May I say frankly that the reason for refusing your
request was the serious misgiving that the Federation
Executive Committee has regarding the fundamental
attitudes of the Animal Welfare Institute. The Feder-
ation is unequivocal in its points of View and is not in-
terested in any compromise position. For example, it
would unreservedly back an animal pound bill in the
New York State Legislature similar to that introduced
last year. It is also entirely opposed to legislation pat-
terned after the present laws in England. The issues
are straightforward; the Federation comprises a large
proportion of investigators who are vitally concerned;
it knows rather precisely what these biologists want and
it knows that these desires are eminently sensible and
sound.

If the Animal Welfare Institute were to give a clear
demonstration that its interesrs and activities are in no
way antithetical to ours--including a vigorous support
of the type of animal pound legislation we favor--then
I am sure we would consider requests in the future for
exhibit opportunities at our meeting.

Yours sincerely,

Here then are three related events:

1. Dr. Carlson, President of the National Society for
Medical Research, expresses his faith in education.
"The National Society for Medical Research was
conceived as an experiment--an experiment in
public education. It was based on the premise and
founded on the belief that public support springs
from public understanding. "

2. A Professor of Physiology active in the foundation
of the N. S. M. R. expresses the fear that the Ani-
mal Welfare Institute is more of a threat to sci—
ence than the anti-vivisection movement which
appeals only to the crackpots.

3. The Executive Committee of the Federation cate-
gorically denies its members the usual courtesy of
acquaintance with facts by refusing to admit an ,
educational display by the Animal Welfare Institute.

The dogmatic attitude of our Committee is difficult to
understand in the light of what appears to be a general '

 




 

agreement on the soundness of the broad objectives of
the Animal Welfare Institute. Dr. Carlson writes me as
of January 15, 1952, “I have copies of the official pub-
lication produced by the Animal Welfare Institute. I
have no quarrel with any of the statements in that publi-
cation, except possibly that the Institute as described in
that publication is not necessary in our own country--"
In regard to the refusal of an educational booth it is to
be remembered that the Institute has not formulated,
nor does it wish to announce specific policies without
sufficient study. Unfortunately the impatience engend—
ered by this desire n0t to arrive at premature conclusions
has led to the circulation of rumors and innuendo. Name
calling has come to the Institute from all sides, the in-
variable experience of those who try to follow a middle
course, note, e. g. , Federation letter No. 1.

Anti-vivisection societies, on their part, circu-
late wide-spread warnings of a secret alliance between
Medical Science and the Institute and a SUBTLE mutual
agreement for procurement of living animals for scien-
tific laboratories. In their turn, the N. S. M. R. condi-
tions uninformed minds to issue statements of this kind
in regard to the Animal Welfare Institute. "It seemed
that the work of the Committee (i. e. the N. S. M. R. )
might be completed in the near future unless new ob~
jectives were sought. However, this is not the case. It
appears that the opposition-~the anti-vivisectionists—-
have changed tactics. They are working in more SUBTLE
ways. Their "professionals" are openly claiming to as-
sist medical research, but behind the scenes are trying
to effect restrictive legislation. Information from an
apparently reliable source suggests that some agents of
the Animal Welfare Institute may be following such a
policy. "

The overwhelming and almost irresistable urge to
see only that which meets with the IMMEDIATE atten-
tion is perhaps the greatest imperfection of the mind
and hangs over man, like the sword of Damocles, poised
to cut him down. Spencer expressed this fear when he
stated that emotions are the master and that the intel-
lect is but the servant of emotions. ‘Lord Acton must
have sensed, the role of emotions in his famous observa-
tion on corruption of the mind, for inability to compro-
mise corrupts the mind in direct relation to the power
which is at the disposal of the emotions.

Some years ago, in a personal conversation, un-
related to procurement, Dr. Carlson summarized the
imperfections of the mind, as he saw them in these con-
cise and blunt words, "There is no such thing as an
open mind. " Dr. Carlson, of course, meant that the
mind is not open to all sides of a question at any given
time, for as all of us know, it is always open to either
one side or the other in controversial problems. The
tendency of the average mind to lock in one position
and to resist compromise has had regrettable effects on
many of the decisions of man since time immemorial.
And it would appear that bills of animal procurement
are no exception.

Consider for a moment the Illinois Bill No. 490,
1951, for procurement of dogs and cats through city
pounds. The need of living animals for the advancement
of medical science is sufficiently recognized to promise
success to a bill which gives careful consideration to all
factors concerned; experimental animals, medical sci-
ence, and society in general.

Bill No. 490 reads well for the experimental animal,
medical science, and society, up to sections 9, 10 & 11
and yet it offers nothing more than vague promises as re-
gards the price which the dog & cat must pay to insure a
flow of animals into the scientific laboratories.

 

Whether by oversight or by intent, section 9 & 11
would virtually abolish humane societies in the State of
Illinois. No one could shelter a stray animal without
running counter to the law. In other words, the N. S. M. R.
would make decency a misdemeanor. Fortunately, for
all concerned, bill No. 490 was greatly modified before
its passage.

Sincerely yours,

Robert Gesell

Professor of Physiology
University of Michigan
Ann Arbor, Michigan

RELATED INFORMATION
SECTIONS 9 & 11 OF ILLINOIS PROCUREMENT BILL
NO. #490, 1951.

Section 9. In localities where public pounds are op-
erated by municipalities or other political subdivisions or
under contract therewith, it shall be unlawful for any
private agency, organization or individual to pick up‘or
confine stray animals without notifying the pound within
24 hours and it shall be the duty of the pound authorities
to pick up the animals; provided, however, that nothing
in this Act shall prevent farmers from'exercising any
right they may have to destroy animals attacking their
livestock or poultry.

Section 11. It shall be a misdemeanor for (1) any
person or institution to violate any of the provisions of
this Act or any rules and regulations promulgated there-
under, or (2) any person wilfully to fail to execute any
duty imposed on him by this. Act.

RECENT CORRESPONDENCE WITH DR CARLSON
THE UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO
Chicago 37, Illinois
DEPARTMENT OF PHYSIOLOGY

January .15, 1952

 




 

Dr. Robert Gesell

Department of Physiology

University of Michigan Medical School
Ann Arbor, Michigan

Dear Dr. Gesell:

I have your telegram of the 12th. I will be in New
York on several duties the last of this month and I shall
try to contact you either going to or coming from New
York. I will let you know the specific date in time.

I have copies of the official publication produced by
the Animal Welfare Institute. I have no quarrel with
any of the statements in that publication, except pos-
sibly that the institute as described in that publication
is not necessary in our own country because all of our
medical schools and research institutes are just as
strongly in favor of animal welfare as this new institute.

I have only one direct experience with a man (Chi-
cago attorney) who told several of us here that he was
paid by the institute. This lawyer appeared at our
legislature in Springfield, opposing our bill just like
the anti-vivisectionists who were there opposing our
bill.

Mr. Rohweder, the Executive Secretary of our So-
ciety, now six or seven years old, founded by and
sponsored by the American Association of Medical
Schools, has proven during these years to be a man of
ability, industry and integrity. This is my judgment,
and I think you will find most of the deans of our some
ninety medical schools will agree with me. Would you
kindly tell me in writing before we meet why you refuse
to meet Mr. Rohweder? Does the Dean of the University
of Michigan Medical School agree with you on this issue?

I hope you are in good health. You are eleven years
my junioras far as chronological age goes, but I, too,
try to carry on despite my coronary attack a year ago.

Cordially yours,

A. I. Carlson

A]C:mj

January 22, 1952

Dr. A. J. Carlson
Department of Physiology
The University of Chicago
Chicago 37, Illinois

Dear Doctor Carlson:

First let me tell you how very glad I am that you are
planning to stop off at Ann Arbor on your New York trip.

In regard to Mr. Rohweder it is regrettable to answer
that my desire not to meet with him was dictated by
circumstances. Since I have not met your executive
secretary, I am forced to judge his intentions by past
correspondence, including his circular letter to the
medical schools of this country. After very careful
consideration it seemed improper to me to offer fur-
ther opportunity .for misunderstandings.

On the other hand, I am greatly encouraged that you
have no quarrel with the statements of the Institute, for
should that represent a general feeling there would be
much to gain from a strong support of the Institute by
the Federation. Surely no harm can come from a dupli-
cation of effort in the direction of humanity.

Animal experimentation, in our country is assuming
proportions of a major industry whose very survival will
depend upon sound humanitarian supervision, and you
will find in my letter to you of February 8, 1946 that I
have felt this way for many years.

I have for a long time regarded you as a very humane
person and can only believe that you are not aware of
what is going on about us. Nor can I be frightened by
problems of procurement of experimental animals.
There is much more to be feared in the harmful effects
of ease of procurement upon quality of research and
cheapened regard for life. We need only compare the
quality of. English, Swedish and American physiology
to quiet our fears on this score.

The " Chicago attorney" to whom you refer was not
paid by the Institute. But as to the legislation in ques-
tion I could never acquiesce to any move, even though
sponsored by the American Association of Medical
Schools, which would strike a blow at common decency
which would instill a fear of being kind to animals
through a bill introduced in the legislature to make it
a misdemeanor to harbor a stray animal without re-
porting to a designated authority of the state within
twenty four hours.

I can only hope that you will try to put yourself in
the place of one of millions of experimental animals
that we force to suffer for our comforts. You have so
often come to the aid of the human underdog. With the
help of your fine fighting spirit something really mag-
nificent could be accomplished to the credit of medicine
and to the betterment of life.

Please write when you will arrive so that I can meet ‘
you at the station.

Sincerely yours,

Robert Gesell

RB/mm

 




THE

ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE

QUARTERLY

 

P.O. BOX 3650

WASHINGTON, DC 20007

SPRING 1989

VOL. 38, NO. 1

 

The African elephant must be
declared endangered

Thirty-eight animal welfare and conserva-
tion groups submitted a formal petition to
Secretary of the Interior Lujan on February
16th requesting him to list the African ele-
phant as an endangered species, pursuant to
the Endangered Species Act of 1973. The
petition cites poaching and smuggling by
the commercial ivory trade as the pri-
mary cause of the precipitous de-

cline of elephant populations

throughout Africa.

Interior listed the African
elephant as ‘threatened’ in
1978 having “decided to de-
pend on the Convention for
International Trade in Endan-
gered Species to regulate the
ivory trade, in hopes that ille-
gal ivory exports would disap-
pear. However, a report sub-
mitted to CITES by the United
Nations EnvironmentProgram
recognized that in 1987 ‘legal
exports accounted for only
22% of the trade.’ Illegal, or
poached, ivory is the norm to-
day.

“In 1986 alone, approxi-
mately 89,000 elephants are
estimated to have died, pri-
marily as aresult of poaching,
to supply the world ivory trade.

Stop Press May 15,1989

The United States has joined
Tanzania, Hungary, A ustria,
Kenya, and Gambia in pro-
posing Appendixl listing for
the African elephant.
Somalia, Chad, Niger and
Senegal are expected to join.

The African elephant is experiencing a
population crash in at least 90% of its
range. The African Elephant and Rhino
Specialist Group estimated in 1987 that 11
African nations had elephant populations
numbering less than 1,000 animals, and
another eight had fewer than 5,000e1e-
phants. The African elephant. is
without a doubt in danger of ex-
tinction in virtually all of its his-
toric range.”
The petition cites 1) the
increased availability of

 

 

 

"'-

 

 

 

0
Elephant

(estimates)

It is estimated that 5 million
elephants roamed Africa in I 970.
Today, there may be less than
500,000 ‘ remaining.

population 1%
millions

automatic weapons to
poachers as a result of wars
and civil unrest and 2) the
rapidly rising price of ivory,
as basic causes fer the mas-
sive poaching and quotes
from R. Barnes’ contribu-
tion to the African Elephant
Database Project: “. . . it is
no surprise that whole vil-
lages should have aban-
doned their normal farming
activities in order to turn to
full-time ivory poaching.”
Professor Colin W.

Clark of the University

of British Columbia’s
Institute of Applied
Mathematics is
quoted in the peti-
tion. An authority
on economics af-
fecting endangered
species, he writes:
“It is a fact of eco-
nomic life that the
over-exploitation of
species, even to the

 

 

 

 

 

(Continued on
page 8)

 

Cloak and dagger at
US Surgical

A commercial laboratory, US Surgical of
Norwalk, Connecticut, has gained notori-
ety from increasingly suspicious circum-
stances surrounding the case of a woman
who allegedly sought to kill its president
and founder, Leon C. Hirsch.

When the news first broke that Fran Trutt
had been arrested by N orwalk police as she
was placing a pipe bomb ﬁlled with nails
near Leon Hirsch’s reserved parking place
at US Surgical, some New York papers
devoted their whole ﬁrst page to the news.
Huge headlines, “Bow Wow Bomber” and
“Puppy Love,” carried what appeared to be
at the time a simple message; an enraged
animal lover had tried to murder the head of
a laboratory.

But local Connecticut newspapers had,
from the start, asked more questions.

The company eventually admitted using
spies, according to The New York Times,
(January 26, 1989) “to inﬁltrate animal-
rights organizations since the early 1980’s.”

' (Continued on page 2)

'. Immuno loses in
libelsuih u - -- S

 

. Fur prices fall .................... 7

. Ambassador fired
for smuggling ................... 8

- Prince William Sound:
A grisly graveyard ........... 9

. Astrid Lindgren wins
Schweitzer Medal .......... l0

. Murder in the
Amazon

 

 

 




 

 

~

“Documents show US Surgical paid Perceptions International

Hirsch told The Times, “We do have people
who are involved in animal-rights organi—
zations who report to us regularly.”

A previous Times article (January 13,
1989), stated: “A man who has
acknowledged driving an animal-
rights advocate armed with a
bomb to the headquarters of the
United States Surgical Corpora—
tion last November now says he
was a paid informer cooperating
with the company and the police
. . . Mr. Mead said in the inter-
view that he had been recruited to
strike up a friendship with Ms.
Trutt and follow her activities.
He said he picked her up at her
home at 30-18 90th Street in
Jackson Heights, Queens, on the
night of Nov. 10 and drove her,
with the bomb, to United States
Surgical . . . Mr. Mead and the police both
said that he was working for a security con-
sulting company, Perceptions International
of Stratford. But the company’s president,
Jan Reber, denied that Mr. Mead worked
for Perceptions.”

As the story developed, it has been re-
liably reported that US Surgical paid Per-

 

"She was set up," said her attorney.

ceptions International over half a million
dollars over the last 14 months. $75,000 al-
legedly went to a woman who made it her
business to pose as an animal rights enthu-
siast and tape conversations whenever they
appeared advantageous to her employers.

A further curious link was established

 

Leon Hirsch, Preside'ht'
Surgical , holdsa surgical stapler.

 

about $550,000 in 1988 and 1989”
—

when it was discovered that Perceptions In-
ternational, the security consultants, and
Perceptions Press, publisher of The Animal
Rights Reporter, which calls itself “A
Monthly Objec-
tive Analysis of
the Animal
Rights Move-
ment,” share an
office and use
the same mailing
permit.

According to a
Stamford S urt-
day Advocate
report dated
J anuary 3 1 ,
1988, US Surgi-
cal’s sales for
1987 were
$252.2 million
with earnings of $20.1 million. The article
refers to “a 1984 SEC investigation that
charged the company with inﬂating its earn-
ings between 1979 and 1981 by falsifying
records...US Surgical settled the case, re-
stating its earnings, but never admitted to
any wrongdoing.” Leon Hirsch was quoted
as saying, “Nobody can point a finger and
say anything was ever proven.”

Credited by US Surgical with starting the
SEC investigation was a former employee,
Alan Blackman. The article notes, “In
1984 the company won its suit in Australia
against Blackman, who was found guilty of
breaching contractual obligations by sell-
in g c0pies of its products... the legal fees for
the Blackman suits and the SEC investiga-
tion totaled $18.5 million.”

An earlier (November 8, 1981) Stamford

Steve Castagneto/ NYT Pictures

Advocate article reported with respect to .

the federal Animal Welfare Act that US
Surgical “did not receive its first federal
inspection till 1979, at least three years
after it began operating...because the com-

pany did not register with USDA until
March 27, 1979.”

US Surgical’s dog dealers

Large numbers of random-source dogs
are used each year by US Surgical to train
sales staff for demonstration of surgical

 

staplers to potential customers. The dog
dealers who have sold the animals to the
company include some with unsavory repu-
tations and at least one with a criminal
record. For example, in 1983, dealer
Rudolf Vrana’s truck was stopped by Burl-
ington County SPCA agents who ﬁled 20
counts of cruelty against him resulting in
fines of $4980. “The court ﬁnds that the
transfer of animals covered with feces, urine
and unable to stand constitutes unspeak-
able cruelty,” Judge Harry Supple said in
finding Vrana guilty.

Soon after the dogs and ‘cats were seized
by the SPCA, two cats and three dogs were
released to people who identiﬁed them as
their missing pets. A large number of
missing animals had been reported in the
area during the preceding year.

Other sources of dogs included Appala-
chian Farms, which the USDA reported
had “no facilities... It occurs to us that some
irregularity is involved.”

Lobbying by US Surgical

US Surgical took an intense interest in
the Improved Standards for Laboratory
Animals amendments to the Animal Wel-
fare Act, seeking every possible means to
prevent enactment during the four years of
consideration of its precursor bills by
Congress. US Surgical’s lobbyist, Dennis
Taylor, was the most visibly active oppo-
nent of the legislation. Mr. Taylor insisted
that US Surgical’s trade secrets would be
endangered by the requirement for an Insti-
tutional Animal Care and Use Committee.
Since he claimed that no pain was inﬂicted
on the dogs, that there was no survival
surgery, and that the animal quarters were
excellent, the intense opposition of his
company appeared to lack a rational basis.

, HOWCVCI, he made clear why salesmen for

US Surgical are taught to operate on dogs:
“You cannot send a salesman intoan 0P6“
ating suite untrained. There are about 200
salesmen. Many make over $100,000 a
year. They make it talking surgeon’s lan-
guage,” he said.

Members of Congress and their aides
were invited to spend an all-expenses-Paid
weekend in Norwalk, including a tour 0f

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

US Surgical’s facilities. US Surgical was
unique in this form of lobbying against the
Improved Standards for Laboratory Ani-
mals amendments.

Spying at US Surgical

At the time, the corporation’s attempts to
spy on and manipulate animal rights groups
were unknown, but the activities evidently
overlapped. The possibility of links with
activities of the National Institutes of Health
is a subject of wide speculation. The J anu-
ary issue of The Animal Rights Reporter,
Perceptions Press’ newsletter, starts off
with a quote from Dr. Frederick K. Good-
win of the National Institute of Mental
Health. Dr. Goodwin’s name became well-
known to the animal welfare community
after a sensational memo of his was leaked.
Dr. Goodwin advised his peers: “1. The
stakes are enormous. The animal rights’
movement threatens the very core of what
the Public Health Service is all about. 2.
The ‘bunker’ strategy is no longer tenable.”

Since the Goodwin memo which recom-
mended “a more pro-active posture,” ap-
peared, an increasingly aggressive approach
by some institutions using laboratory ani-
mals has been noted. The Animal Rights
Reporter itself describes a debate on the
“Today” show in which the president of the
University of Texas Health Center at San
Antonio “observed a strategy throughout
the interview which was to repeat just two
major points: animal rights people are
getting violent, and animal research has
benefited everyone. He couched a vari-
ation of one of these points in every answer
he gave, even if his answer did not address
the question he was asked.”

In a February 9th article, Fairpress re-
ported, “While Leon Hirsch, Perceptions
International and some members of the
Norwalk police apparently knew that Fran
Trutt was driving up to Norwalk from New
York City with a live powerful bomb, it
seems they did nothing to evacuate em-
ployees at US Surgical or in surrounding
buildings, let alone warn anyone on area
highways or at a rest stop where she paused
on her way to Norwalk.

“Reportedly, a Norwalk police officer
did try to tell Marc Mead— the undercover
agent working for US Surgical who accom-
panied Trutt— how to disconnect the bomb
even though Mead, a Westport window
washer by trade, has no familiarity or expe-
rience with explosives.”

 

 

Who are the players in this melodrama?

These excerpts from news reports are intended to help interested readers
keep the strange events straight by identifying the participants.

 

Marc Mead

According to the
Norwalk Hour,
(January 12, 1989)
Marc Mead, who
says he drove Trim
and the bomb to
US Surgical,“is on
federal probation
stemming from a

  

20): “Protecting
big business from

possible threats
and at the same
time facing
nickel-and-dime
civil suits is Jan
Reber, 39, head of
Perceptions Inter-
national, a secu—
rity consulting

 

1984 conviction ' ﬁrm in Stratford.
. Marc Mead next to van he used to transport ,, l I

on charges ofmall Fran Trutt and bomb to US Sur ical Although '

fraud . . . found g ' Rebersupplies un-

guilty of violating probation in 1986 and
[he] was ordered to undergo psychiatric
counseling, according to a probation de-
partment official, who said Mead is still
required to undergo counseling . . . Kenneth
D’Amato, a Bridgeport attorney who has
represented Mead since Trutt was arrested
Nov. 11, . . . is on the board of directors of
Perceptions International Inc., which Mead
claims hired him to monitor Trutt’s activi—

' ties.”

The February 4th United Press Intema—
tional wire states: “Mead claimed he had
rehearsed Trutt’s arrest with a Norwalk
police sergeant and US Surgical’s chief of
security. He talked Trutt out of planting the
bomb at Hirsch’s home so all would pro-
ceed as planned, Mead said. US Surgical
said it employed Perceptions International
for about five years as security consultants,
but denied any link to Mead even though
his sister is the security chief’s secretary.”
According to United Press International
(February 22), Mead was provided with an
Alfa Romeo and aPorsche “to impress Fran
Stephanie Trutt . . .”

 

Jan Reber,
Perceptions International and
Perceptions Press

According to the Westport News, (January

 

dercover investigative services and per-
forms them himself, he is not licensed to do
the work. He and other Perceptions em-
ployees work under the license of a man
named Keith Mayo.

“.Mr Reber is under contract to West-
porter Leon Hirsch, chairman of the board
of US Surgical . . . Mr. Reber has been
successfully sued twice by Leach and Gar-
ner Company of Attleboro, Mass. He was
found guilty of unfair business practices in
1986 and ordered to pay the company
$26,220. A year later, as part of the same
suit, he was ordered to pay the company
$8,740.” The newspaper also details addi-
tional law suits.

A February 9th Associated Press wire
states, “Reber, whose ofﬁce is secured by a
combination-locked door monitored by a
video camera and intercom, said Percep-
tions first became involved with animal-
rights movements in Europe, where he said
activists are far more militant and danger-
ous.”

According to Greenwich Time, (January
29), in a story about The Animal Rights
Reporter: “Launched last November, the
newsletter is publishedby Perceptions Press,
a Stratford-based company headed by Jan
R. Reber . . . A Washington, D. C., tele-
phone number on the masthead rings in
Perceptions Press’ Stratford ofﬁce . . .
Connecticut state police are investigating
whether Perceptions conducted an illegal

3

 




 

 

 

 

—

“Perceptions International paid Mead a total of $5,207 in

fees and expenses. Mea
inform on Trutt for Percep

”

investigation into Trutt’s activities. Per-
ceptions is not licensed in Connecticut to
conduct investigations, police say.”

A March 3rd New York Times article
states: “The president of Perceptions Inter-
national, Jan Reber, argues that his work is
not investigative, but ‘information gather-
ing,’ which is why he has not sought a
private investigator’s license from the state
of Connecticut.

“Speaking in an office heavily decorated
in animal skins, imitation elephant tusks
and African artifacts—many gifts from an
earlier career as a security adviser in Af-
rica—Mr. Reber stressed that he kept his
distance from law-enforcement agencies.”

 

Dr. Frederick Goodwin,

Head, Alcohol, Drug Abuse and Mental
Health Administration

On February 5th Newsday wrote:

On Sept. 28, 1987, high-level directors
and administrators of US government re-
search agencies and the lobbyist for the
nation’s biomedical research industry met
inWashington, DC, to discuss the growing
animal rights movement and w ays to fight it.

‘The stakes are enormous,’ wrote one
federal official with the National Institute of
Mental Health in an internal memo distrib—
uted after the meeting. ‘The animal rights
movement threatens the very core of what
the Public Health Service is all about...The
“bunker” strategy is no longer tenable’ The
PHS is a division of the US Department of
Health and Human Services. The memo
goes on to outline a strategy designed to
keep the govemmentbehind the scenes while
encouraging other health-care groups to
undermine the animal rights movement.. . .

The writer of the controversial memo is
now head of the Alcohol, Drug Abuse and
Mental Health Administration. His admini-
stration oversees the activities of more than
a dozen health-related agencies, including
the National Institute of Mental Health.

 

At the time he wrote the memo, Frederick
K. Goodwin headed the research arm of the
National Institute of Mental Health. In an
interview last week, he defended its position
‘If our mission is research, I’m not going to
be fair with a stop research group,’ he said.
‘That just doesn’t make sense. That’s like
saying the Defense Department should be
fair to pacifists who say there ought not be a
Defense Department.’

He also suggested in the memo that the
agencies ‘should pull together groups to
think of more creative ways to counter the
long-term threat posed by the animal rights
movement. For example, it might be pos-
sible to ftmd special fellowships inresearch
advocacy for investigators who many wish
to include such activity in their career.’

The memo was distributed to all at the
1987 meeting, including Frankie Trull, a
lobbyist who also runs the Foundation for
Biomedical Research in Washington, DC.
Goodwin defends Trull’s presence at the
meeting and giving her a copy of the memo.

‘We’re not allowed to lobby,’ Goodwin
said in the interview. ‘There’s a law against
it. [But] all federal agencies have linkages
to various advocacy groups interested in the
business of that agency.’

On February 1, the Norwalk Hour pub-
lished an article entitled “Trailing of Trutt
apparently one facet of medical research-
ers’ broader plan”: “The same month that
Goodwin wrote his private memo (which
was addressed to three scientists and Trull),
Perceptions Press was created by Reber,
who simply changed the name of the com-
pany from Secintell, Inc., an apparent con-
traction of ‘security intelligence.’ The first
issue of T he Animal Rights Reporter rolled
off the press a year later.”

 

S. D. Vestermark, Jr.

According to theNorwalkHour (Febru-
ary 1): “There is evidence that a third
member of a Stratford security firm ac-
cused of conducting illegal private investi-
gations has infiltrated animal rights groups
for years under the guise of being a profes-

 

d has said he was paid to befriend and
tions International and US Surgical.”

sor writing a book on the animal rights
movement.

“Seymour Day ‘Bud’ Vestermark, Jr,
who is a principal executive at Perceptions
International, Inc., is well known among
animal rights activists who say he has been
seen at demonstrations around the country
since 1986, often taking photographs and
video-taping protestors.

“Vestermark, who on two occasions al-
legedly identiﬁed himself as a Harvard
sociology professor, has a background in
security and is a long-time associate of Jan
Reber, president of Perceptions Intema-
tional, friends and associates said. He has
been listed as a ‘senior consulting editor’
for The Animal Rights Reporter, anewslet—
ter published by another company headed
by Reber . . .

“Vestermark’s father, Seymour Vester-
mark, Sr., was director of the Division of
Manpower and Training at the National
Institute of Mental Health in Bethesda from
1948 to 1958 . ..

“Security professionals interviewed said
Vestermark was working with Reber as far
backas the early 1970’s, when Reberstarted
a security consulting firm in Westport.”

 

Mary Lou Sapone

An Associated Press wire story (February
16) reports: “A Stratford security consult-
ing ﬁrm paid nearly $90,000 to two people
who infiltrated the animal rights movement
and allegedly spied on the woman accused
of trying to kill the president of US Surgical
Corp.

“Perceptions lntemational Inc., a ﬁrm
hired by US Surgical, made the payments to
Mary Lou Sapone of Ridgeﬁeld and Mafcus
Mead of Westport, according to a story
Published in Thursday’s edition of The Ad-
vocate of Stamford.

“Perceptions also hired a Long Island
ﬁrm to follow Fran Stephanie T111“, an
animal rights activistwho has been charg,
with attempted murder in connection W1

 

 

 




 

 

 

an attempted bombing at US Surgical in
November.

“Hallmark International Inc. of
Smithtown, N. Y., was hired by Percep-

  

Mary Lou Sapone (in dark glasses) poses as an
animal rights supporter at a demonstration.

tions to watch Trutt, her family and com-
panions in the Jackson Heights section of
Queens.

“The Advocate reported that documents
show US Surgical paid Perceptions Inter-
national about $550,000 in 1988 and 1989
. . . According to financial statements, Per-
ceptions International paid Sapone a total
of $59,612 in fees and $23,434 for ex-
penses between June 19, 1987 and Dec. 19,
1988.

“Perceptions International paid Mead a
total of $5,207 in fees and expenses be-
tween Aug. 17 and Nov. 10, 1988, the
records show. Mead has said he was paid to
befriend and inform on Trutt for Percep-
tions International and US Surgical.”

In a February 6th article, The Fairﬁeld
Advocate states: “According to Trutt,
Sapone was the first person to suggest to
her that she plant a bomb at US Surgical...

Rademacher [an associate of Trutt’s attor-
ney, John Williams] maintained yesterday
that US Surgical, Perceptions International
and the Norwalk police convinced and en-
abled Trutt to plant the bomb.

‘They provided her with money and trans—
portation and other things,’ he said.
Rademacher noted thatNorwalk police ofﬁ-
cers sometimes perform off-duty work for
US surgical, which the company and Police
Chief Carl LaBianca have both confirmed.
‘Apparently US Surgical believes they own
the Norwalk police,’ Rademacher said.
‘Clearly there’s a ﬁnancial incentive by

 

Norwalk police to COOperate with US Surgi-
cal.

According to the WestportNews (Febru-
ary 1), “Ms. Trutt alleged that Mrs. Sapone
had attempted to incite her to kill
Mr. Hirsch. ‘The ﬁrst time she
telephoned me she said: “Hirsch
ought to be blown from here to
kingdom come. I wish we could
buy a bomb.” ’ ”

John R. Williams,
Fran Trutt’s Attorney

@1988 Joy Bush/Animal Rights Front

According to the Danbury News-
Times, (February 2), New Haven
attorney John R. Williams, who is
defending Fran Trutt, said: “‘Fran
Trutt was set up and Mary Lou
Sapone played a role in that setup
and continued to play that role long after the
arrests were made’ . . . He claimed Sapone
helped engineer the bombing attempt. He
also said he is convinced Sapone was work-
ing for Perceptions International, a private
security firm, and was being paid by US
Surgical to discredit the animal-rights move-
ment ‘and to scare the hell out of its follow-

3”

GIS.

 

Laboratory animal

regulations finally published

On March 15, 1989, proposed rules for
enforcement of the Improved Standards for
Laboratory Animals Act amendments to
the Animal Welfare Act were published in
the Federal Register.

The rules are divided into three parts.
Part I: Definitions; Part 11: Regulations;
and Part III: Standards. Proposed regula-
tions for Parts I and II were previously
published March 3 1, 1987. They have been
modified in response to over 7,000 com-
ments received and a full explanation of
each decision appears in the Federal Regis-
ter notice.

Interested persons are now invited to
comment on Part III, which includes the
requirements for exercise for dogs and a
physical environment adequate to promote
psychological well-being of primates.
These comments are due by July 15 .

For a copy of the Federal Register, send
$8.00 (our printing cost) to AWI.

 

The chimpanzee
champions triumph

 

Immuno loses on all counts in
prolonged $4 million libel case

The Austrian pharmaceutical ﬁrm Immuno
AG lost an expensive and prolonged libel
suit January when the appellate Division of
the Supreme Court of New York ruled that
the libel action should have been dismissed.
In 1983, Shirley McGreal who heads the
International Primate Protection League,
wrote a letter to the Editor of the Journal of
Medical Primatology, Professor Moor-
Jankowski, critical of Immuno’s plans for
use of wild-caught chimpanzees. Immuno
sued them both. When Moor-Jankowski’s
lawyers fought back with a motion for
dismissal for the libel suit, summary judg-
ment was denied by Justice Beatrice
Shainswit in August 1987.

But the five-justice panel of the New
York Supreme Court thought otherwise.

“To unnecessarily delay the disposition
of a libel action is not only to countenance
waste and inefﬁciency but to enhance the
value of such actions as instruments of
harassment and coercion inimical to the
exercise of First Amendment rights,” said
Presiding Justice Francis T. Murphy.

As Justice Murphy declared in his writ-
ten judgment, “Obviously McGreal’s true
report of Immuno’s initial proposal, the
source and date of which were scrupulously
identified by her, cannot support a recovery
for defamation. Particularly perplexing is
the claim, implicit in Immuno’s argument,
that the disclosure of its original proposal
was defamatory. It must be stressed that
this was Immuno’s own proposal.

“Surely Immuno does not suggest that its
very own plan, one which it would have
been happy to pursue, was so ill-conceived
and so obviously pernicious in its methods
and probable consequences that its accu-
rate disclosure caused Immuno reputational
injury. If the plan was so clearly misguided
the wound which its disclosure is alleged to
have caused is self-inﬂicted and cannot be
redressed through the law of libel.”

Since Immuno claims it changed its re-
search plan in April 1983, why did it hold
back this information? It is a mystery

(Continued on page 18)

5

 




 

 

 

 

 

200 charged with
waterfowl poaching

Last December, the Fish and Wildlife Service
brought criminal charges against 200 people for
violating waterfowl hunting regulations. The
charges stemed from a three year investigation
in which undercover agents booked hunts with
guides and owners of commercial hunting busi-
nesses.

The guides, many of whom charge from $65
to $500 per day for hunting along the Texas
coast, were openly encouraging their clients to
make illegal kills. Violations occurred in ninety-
two percent of the hunts observed by agents.

Over 1,300 violations were documented
involving the 41 hunting businesses investi-
gated, including “rallying” (using motorboats
to drive birds towards hunters); shooting more
than the legal limit; failing to retrieve shot
birds; using lead shot and amplified calls;
taking birds during closed seasons; shooting
before or after legal shooting hours; selling
migratory birds; and falsifying records. Twenty-
two guides and owners were arrested in the
sting.

Violations involved snow geese, blue geese
and numerous duck species. Also in several
instances herons, ibises, raptors and other mi-
gratory non- game birds were illegally killed or
sold to undercover agents.

So far, 109 people have been ticketed and
paid ﬁnes totaling over $50,000 and 11 people
have pleaded guilty to Lacey Act and Migratory
Bird Treaty violations.

Violations of the Migratory Bird Act can-
carry penalties of 6 months in jail and ﬁnes of
$5,000 for individuals and $10,000 for organi-
zations. For Lacey Act violations, the fines are
even stiffer: up to $250,000 for individuals and
$500,000 for organizations as well as apossible
five year prison sentence.

Improved protection of wetlands urged

The Fish and Wildlife Service has announced
publication of a report—requested by Congress
in l986—recommending urgent measures to
protect America’s dwindlingwetlands. Entitled
The Impact of Federal Programs on Wetlands,
the report called for a halt to the degradation and
agricultural conversion of wetlands, now down
to little more than a quarter of their original
acreage, and urges closer liaison between the
agencies involved in order to avoid conﬂicting
actions and policies.

6

 

 

 

Fur smugglers trapped

Last December also saw another sting

’ brought to a successful close. Again the

center of operations, this time for a 2-year
period, was Texas. Federal agents of the
Fish and Wildlife Service inﬁltrated a major
fur-smuggling ring dealing in pelts of ani-
mals trapped in Mexico.

As their front the agents opened a fur-
trading company in Van Horn which bought
pelts of numerous furbearing animals—
ocelots, gray foxes, kit foxes, bobcats, ring-
tail cats, raccoons and coyotes—whilst
painstakingly building up the dossier against
suspect smugglers. Finally the suspects,

Some of the seized ﬁtrs: ring tailed cats, gray oxesd

coyotes.

three Americans and eight Mexicans, were
invited to a barbecue. All three Americans
and five of the Mexicans turned up. They
were promptly arrested. And 6000 pelts

Prison for drug and

A classic example of the connection be-
tween drugs and wildlife in the subterra-
nean world of smuggling surfaced Febru-
ary 17 when Michael Tsalickis was sen-
tenced to 27 years in federal prison for
masterminding the smuggling of 7,300
pounds of Columbian cocaine into the
United States. Tsalickis used the logs from
rainforest trees he imported to conceal the
huge quantities of cocaine.

For many years he had been importing
South American primates. According to
the InternationalPrimate ProtectionLeague

 

 

 

were seized.

Although delighted with the success of
the Fish and Wildlife Operation, Tom
Smylie, a spokesman for the agency, issued
a caveat: “There are smuggling families all
along the border. If this is just the tip of the
iceberg we’ve got a serious problem with
depletion of animals in Mexico.”

Three hurdles cleared
by EC on trapped furs

The European Parliament has taken the
next essential step toward
labelling imported furs
caught in steel-jaw leghold
traps. On February 17, 1989,
the Parliament adopted a
g motion for resolution pre-
rg pared by the Committee on
E the Environment, Public
Health, and Consumer Pro-
tection. The Parliament is
taking the matter seriously,
with full discussion and pas-
sage of 9 amendments to the
proposal. It was adopted by
an overwhelming majority:
139-3 with 5 abstentions.
The resolution was sent to the European
Commission which on April 28, issued a
Proposed regulation for an import ban in
1996.

primate dealer

he moved from Tarpon Springs to Leticia,
Columbia in 1953 to set up an animals
exporting business and became the major
exPorter of South American monkeys. He
was appointed US Consular Agent in Leti-
cia. Leticia is close to the borders of Brazil
and Peru, so Tsalickis and the many hunters
he employed had access to large numbers
of squirrel monkeys and other primates. At
one time he operated monkey charter ﬂights
to the United States. One of his principal
Customers was the National Institutes Of
Health (N 1H).




 

 

WILDLIFE

 

Fur prices fall

The fur trade is feeling the pinch. Accord-
ing to The Guardian (Prince Edward Is-
land, Canada), April 7, 1989, a government
survey shows “that eight out of 10 Canadi-

 

A bobcat struggles in a leghold trap

ans support the protection and not the kill-
ing of wildlife,” and, “The fur trade’s own
analysts are predicting a bleak financial
outlook.” The Guardian cites a trade pub—
lication assessment: “The European mar-
ket fell in less than three years from the top
consuming region to an area where furs are
now looked upon with distaste.” The fig-
ures for falling consumer demand are given:
“Germany, 25%; Holland, 90%; United
Kingdom, 74%; Austria, 25% and Switzer-
land, 75%.”

Fur Age Weekly (New York, NY) April
24, 1989, has two front page stories reﬂect-
ing the same trend. The ﬁrst headline
reads: “Hudson’s Bay London Will Close
Its Doors.” The story quotes an announce-
ment: “Due to the present state of the
market, HBA and Finnish Fur Sales have
been forced to reappraise the Group’s op-
erational basis for next selling season. . . It
has not been possible to maintain a profit-
able auction activity in London in the pres-
ent market circumstances.”

The second story headed “Fur Expo
Canceled,” says: “The board of directors
of the Master Furriers Guild of America,
announced last week that it has canceled
the Fur Expo due to a lack of early partici-
pation commitments.”

 

 

 

 

The Market Report column in the January
issue of that bible of the fur trade, The
Trapper and Predator Caller, by ParkerL.
Dozhier notes:

According to country
buyers, many trappers,
upon learning the pres—
entvalue of their catch,
have said they intend to
pull up traplines, claim-
ing that at these prices
they cannot pay for
gasoline.

This almost instant
response to prices this
season will certainly
result in the shortest
harvest since the early
’603.

In New York, Mon-
treal, Frankfurt and
Rome the fur trade is in
serious trouble. These
manufacturers and de-
signers, once so important to the wild fur
trade here in America, are now suffering
from what I call ‘environmentalist fall-
out’...Never before has the future of the fur
trade seen such widespread uncertainty.

Cold comfort for
polar bear smugglers

Once upon a time he had been president of
the Outdoor Writers of Canada and a
member of the Outdoor Writers Associa-
tion of America. And his government had
invited him (though later withdrawing the
invitation) to give delegates of the 1987
CITES conference in Ottawa a taste of
Canada’s great outdoors.

Such a man, you might suppose, would
be a staunch upholder of the laws which
protect endangered wildlife. But no. For
Jerome Knap of Waterdown, Ontario,
owned a company called Canada North
Outfitting Inc. which, for a fee of $13,500,
arranged 10-day expeditions on Baffin Is-
land for polar bear hunters. And Knap was

 

greedy.

His operation was not in itself illegal;
Canada, through the government of the
Northwest Territories, permits a limited
hunt of polar bears. All the same there was
a problem. His numerous US clients would
not be happy to shell out such a sizeable
sum of money unless they could be sure of
being able to impress friends back home
with tangible proof of their skill and daring
in the form of a polar bear trophy. The
trophy of course would have to be im-
ported—and this was expressly forbidden
by both CITES and the Marine Mammal
Protection Act.

Letters to prospective clients proffered a
“virtually foolproof” solution to this tire-
some problem. For a small extra charge of
$1000 a“gal who smuggles”would arrange
for the forbidden trophy to be ﬂown in
luggage from Toronto to an American city
or taken across the border by car.

In 1987 the Knaps, husband and wife,
found themselves in a Texas court charged
with assisting a Texan businessman to
smuggle home a polar bear hide and skull
(see Spring/Summer 1987 Quarterly). They
were each ﬁned $20,000, with Jerome Knap
also being jailed for 60 days while his wife
was ordered to do 500 hours community
work.

Last November a Canadian court added
to the Knaps’ well-merited punishment by
imposing a fine of $70,000 on their com-
pany. They had pleaded guilty to violating
Canada’s Export and Import Act by smug-
gling 22 polar bear hides and one narwhal
tusk across the border.

About a dozen US hunters who (with the
aid of the Knaps) smuggled home their
trophies have been successfully prosecuted.
The US Department of Justice believes
there could be as many as 60 hunters in—
volved and intends tracking down and
prosecuting all of them.

  

 




 

Elephants (cont. from page I )

point of extinction, becomes the most prof-
itable strategy given that the product price
is sufﬁciently high. Most vulnerable are
large animals having low reproduction po-
tential. International trade in products
from whales and large carnivores (e. g. leop-
ards, tigers) is now almost completely ille-
gal, and the result has been that the likeli-
hood of survival of these species is greatly
enhanced. I am convinced that elephants

Decline in Average Tusk Weight

 

1972 1980 1986 1988

28.6 lb. 17.6 lb. 10.12 lb. 6.6] II).

are doomed unless the ivory trade is illegal-
ized.”

To illegalize the commercial trade inter-
nationally, it is necessary to list the African
elephant on Appendix I which signifies
endangered status. At present Loxodonta
Africana is listed as Appendix II corre-
sponding to the US threatened category.

Tanzania’s elephants have suffered ap-
palling losses from poaching. Even baby
elephants with tiny tusks are gunned down
for their ivory. The Wildlife Society of
Tanzania requested the Government of
Tanzania to take the lead in submitting an
Appendix I proposal to the CITES Secre-
tariat.

The seventh biennial meeting of the 101
CITES member nations will be held in
Lausanne, Switzerland this October. The
fate of the elephant depends on ending the
ivory trade. To do that, Appendix 1 listing
and US endangered listing are essential.

ACTION: Please write to Secretary
Lujan urging him to list the African ele-
phant as endangered under the US Endan-
gered Species Act on an emergency basis
and to support Appendix I listing by CITES.
He may be addressed:

Hon. Manuel Lujan, Jr.

Secretary of the Interior

Washington, DC. 20240

 

 

The biggest ivory smugglers are
highest government officials

Recent months have seen a rash of ivory
smuggling at the most senior levels of gov-
ernment. Nor has this been a matter of just
one or two nicely carved pieces tucked for-
getfully away amongst a host of other arti-
facts in a busy diplomat’s baggage. The
quantities have been almost beyond belief.

In January the Indonesian ambassador to
Tanzania, about to board the plane home at
the end of five years service, was taken
aside and asked to explain how his personal

, luggage came to include 208 elephant tusks ,
82 carved ivory figures, 14 carved ivory
walking sticks, ivory necklaces, 16 ostrich
eggs and two mounted gazelles. The ivory
weighed around three tons with a value of
$500,000.

The ambassador was detained and the
ivory seized. Later he was allowed to
leave the country, but was ﬁred from the
foreign Service upon his return home. The
incident is reported to have come close to
causing Tanzania, which has lost well over
half its elephants in the last 10 years, to
break off diplomatic relations with Indone-
s1a.

Move on now to February in London’s
Gatwick airport. There, concealed in 20
diplomatic sacks in an airport warehouse,
are up to 200 uncut elephant tusks. The
sacks, which arrived on a Portuguese air-
line ﬂight form Kinshasa, Zaire, via Lis-
bon, have been awaiting collection for three
months. They are being closely watched
over by Customs officials.

But plainly word has got out that the

Just a few of
the 208
elephant tusks
found in the
Indonesian
ambassador’s
personal

luggage.

 

 
 

game is up. No one turns up to claim them,
So the tusks are seized and the hunt is now
on for the “owners”. Diplomats at several
African embassies are being questioned.

Lastly back to Africa, to Somalia and to
the highest in the land, the President him-
self, Major General Mohamed Siyaad Barre.
A letter signed by him, dated March 1987,
has recently come to light. Addressed to
various Ministries and to Police Headquar-
ters, it reads (in translation) as follows:

“The attached application was submitted
to me by Comrades Omer Hassan Khayre
and Hussein Barre Hassan, requesting me
to authorize them to bring into the country
elephant tusks from Kenya and Ethiopia.
Having properly considered their requestl
am giving them due authorization to bring
the items under discussion into this country
and I further instruct you to reward them,
along the lines laid down in the relevant
regulations.”

Kenya’s elephants are taking the brunt of
this diabolical onslaught. The well-armed
gangs of poachers operating in the Tsavo
National Park mostly come from Somalia.
Of this there is no doubt—some even carry
identification cards issued by Somalia.

In the past three years the Somali gov-
ernment has sold or stockpiled no fewer
than 29,000 tusks—And most recently
Somali soldiers in uniform were caught
red-handed. The US, under the 19-88 Ele-
phant Conservation Act, has banned all
ivory imports both from Somalia and from
any COUHtry purchasing Somali ivory.

Environmental Investigation Agency




PRINCE WILLIAM SOUND: A GRISLY GRAVEYARD

Good Friday 1989 will go
down as one of the blackest
days in the lengthening his-
tory of environmental dis-
asters. On that date one of
the world’s richest havens
for sea mammals and birds
was turned into a grisly
graveyard, and one of the
finest fishing grounds in the
world was devastated. And
it happened on US terri-
tory: Prince William
Sound, Alaska, and its sur-
rounding area.

In calm seas with good
visibility the Exxon Val-

dez, 13 huge oil tanks on f V .«

board, rammed a group of
submerged rocks, punctur-
ing two of the 13 tanks, as a
prelude to running aground on a prominent
reef, way off course, tearing gaping holes
in a further six tanks and voiding millions
of gallons of oil straight into the sea.

To deal with such an emergency the
Alyeska Pipeline Service Company, jointly
run by seven big oil companies, had given
assurances that clean-up equipment and
containment booms would be in action
within three hours of a spillage. In fact
nothing much happened for the best part of
a day and a half (except that the oil contin-
ued gushing from the crippled tanker).

By then a savage nor’ westerly was blow-
ing and feeble attempts to contain the 10
million gallons of crude swilling around in
the icy seas were doomed to failure. Within
days the slick covered 1000 square miles,
including hundreds of miles of bays and
inlets favored by the region’s sea mam-
mals.

Among the more fatuous statements
issued by Exxon in the days following the
8Pill was one claiming there “has been no
evidence of dead mammals found.” The
implication that the animals had all mi-
raculously escaped the engulfing tide of
SIUdgC and consequent agonizing death
from starvation, oil ingestion and hypoth-
ermia, was soon contradicted by the dead
and dying sea otters, sea lions, humpbacks,
orcas, harbor seals and, as illustrated above,
gray whales.

 

 

incompetence: A California Gray whale lies dead in Alaska.

Then there are the birds. Uncountable
numbers of seabirds have been cruelly
killed. And this spring for millions of
geese, ducks and other migrants, the ances-
tral feeding-and resting sites along Alaska’s
southern coast will have proved no restora-
tive lifeline but an oleaginous death trap.
To this black picture must be added the
ruination of whole fishing communities
thanks to the heedless destruction of the
once superbly rich salmon and hem'ng ﬁsh-
eries. How could such a tragedy have been
allowed to happen?

Exxon is a company which saw ﬁt to hire
as skipper of the Exxon Valdez a man
whose fondness for alcohol resulted in his
driving license being suspended or revoked
three times in five years. He was reportedly
observed drinking at a tavern before board-
ing the ship and was below deck when
disaster struck.

An unqualified seaman was at the helm
of the enormous vessel. Recently Exxon,
in order to reduce crew size and shipping
costs, promoted its existing ordinary sea-
men to the rank of able seamen, authorized
to handle the ship’s wheel. The inexperi-
enced helmsman apparently didn’t even
know the huge ship had been put on auto-
matic pilot. Consequently, last minute
efforts to change course away from the reef
were vain.

Exxon is a company which has persis-

 

tently cut comers. The
Exxon Valdez, builtin 1986,
had no double hull, an es-
sential safety measure. Ac-
cording to The New York
Times, April 16, 1989, “the
Coast Guard had dropped a
proposed requirement for
double hulls.” Also dropped
were 6 of the 11 person staff
of the area’s Coast Guard
traffic control who had been
removed in budget cuts.

Not only the staff but the
necessary equipment had
been subject to budget
slashes. According to the
London Sunday Times,
(April 2) “The reef is some
14 miles from the radar sta-
tion at Potato Point outside
the port, but the equipment there only has a
range of 13 miles when conditions are per-
fect. And it is unable to pick up icebergs.”

The Times further reported, “...a former
radar technician revealed that more power-
ful equipment was replaced ﬁve years ago
as part of an exercise aimed at saving $3.8
million over the next 10 years. The techni-
cian, Pat Levy said he wrote to Alaska’s
congressmen and the top Coast Guard
commander in the United States warning
them that the move would bring ‘an oil
tanker disaster in the sound closer to real-
ity.’ ”

Irresponsible penny pinching by big

business and big government is the root
cause of this desecration of nature. Exxon
is eager to pay for drilling in the Alaska
National Wildlife Refuge despite the fact
that it was declared a “permanent wilder-
ness” in the last days of the Carter admini-
stration, but it wouldn’t pay for a double
hull for the Exxon Valdez or for competent
helmsmen.
ACTION: Let Exxon know your opin-
ion by refusing to buy its products and
writing its chairman. If you have an Exxon
credit card, cut it in half and enclose it.

The address is:

Mr. Lawrence G. Rawl, Chairman

Exxon Corporation

1251 Avenue of the Americas

New York, NY 10023

worldwide Photos

 




 

 

Astrid Lindgren, Factory farming foe

 

Astrid Lindgren is Sweden’s most popular author. When she turned her powerful mind to reforming factory farm
cruelty, the Swedish government passed a new law in 1988. In recognition of her achievement, the Albert Schweitzer
Medal of the Animal Welfare Institute was presented to her March 16 at the Swedish Embassy residence, where
Ambassador Wilhelm Wachtmeister welcomed members and special guests. "In Sweden,” he said, "She is not only the
most famous lady, she is the most beloved. I am sure that if the animals could vote, the majority would be still greater

in her favor.”

The medal was presented to Astrid Lindgren by Congressman Charles Bennett, dean and chairman of the Florida
delegation and author of the Veal Calf Protection Act now pending before the House Agriculture Committee.

Congressman Bennett’s Remarks

I am reminded about what President Truman said one time. You
know, when you come to Washington and you really want to
have a friend, better buy yourself a dog.

Tonight we’re going to recognize an extraordinary lady. She
lived on a farm. She left at an early age and made her way into the
big city and became a great writer,
translated into 50 languages. Her
tart and sparkling wit really
touched me very much. She says
here: “A good idea would be if
you took the politicians along and
showed them the heifers in their
stalls and let them smell the
manure gas and the ammonia
they’re on. Then, they’d more
easily perceive why so many
blessed antibiotics are needed to
treat the animals’ incessant bouts
of pneumonia. Yes, you’re right;
we also have to take antibiotics
when we are sick. Only the dif-
ference is that we don’t have to
inhale the ammonia day and night
our whole lives, and we don’t
contract pneumonia quite as of-
ten.”

Next thing I’d like to read to
you tells about pigs. She went on
to say: “How come pigs, for
example, start to bite each other’s
tails off? There is no way that
that can be a token of well-
being—that’s a sign of gross
anxiety. Well, that’s the time to start up the research, says the
Farmers Meat Marketing Association. Not the way one might
believe—to develop a genial improvement of the pigs’ environ-
ment and thus decrease their anxiety. Not at all: they want the
researchers to develop a pig indifferent to anxiety, a pig, I pre-
sume, that likes to have its tail bitten off! You wonder, Isn’t that
sick? Shouldn’t the animals that can transform the verdure of the
pasture into the finest protein be permitted to do it (and at the same
time keep the meadows from being overgrown)? Shouldn’t ani-
mals be allowed to grow at the rate that’s natural for them, instead

10

 

Ambassador Wachtmeister, Astrid Lindgren, Christine Stevens
and Countess Wachtmeister greet guests before the ceremony.

of—cooped up with no exercise—being fed an overdose of grain
in order to grow twice as fast, while they are being stuffed with
antibiotics in order to survive all the bouts of pneumonia and boils
and joint pains that constantly plague them?”

Coming out of her experiences in Northern Europe where so
many of the cattle have to be kept
indoors. . . she expressed a real
empathy for the cow. She said
what a pity to have artiﬁcial in-
semination, because the only joy-
ful day that some of these cows
have is that one day when they
meet the bull out in the yard. So
that touched me very much! When
she took on the politicians in a
sparkling, witty way, I can see how
all these politicians crumbled!

I just wish you were here to
try and help me out with my calf
bill! I had no idea that anybody
would’ve done all you have done
on all the types of animals and, of
course, they all ought to be con-
sidered the same way. It‘s easy
for us to love dogs because they
love us, and they never criticize,
and they are always there to show
affection for us. Most animals
actually do that. I grew up in
Florida, and people talk about the
horrible panthers and the alliga-
tors; but I’ve had a lot of experi-
ences with both of them. And you
know, if you actually don’t imperil a panther, or don’t imperil an
alligator, you’re not going to get much trouble with it. They are
not really looking to pick on people!

Like yourself, I love animals. And I think it’s a test of human
kindness, whether you really love things and beings that have not
been as much blessed by The Lord as have we. Around us are all
these beings which have sentiments—I think they have souls——
loving creatures that want to be loved like we like to be loved. I
think it’s wonderful that this sweet lady across the ocean from us
has impressed the parliament of her country.

3%

#2::5"




 

foe, wins Albert Schweitzer Award

:2
....

 

Congressman
Charles Bennett
congratulates
Astrid Lindgren
after handing her
the medal.

Mrs. Lindgren
makes her speech
while the
Congressman
looks on (far
right).

 

Rosita Eck

 

June Hughes

“Animals can feel pain and sorrow and agony,

and the fear of death, just as we do.”

 

Astrid Lindgren’s Acceptance Speech

My dear friends!

You can’t imagine what this medal means
to me. I do not think I have done enough to
deserve it.

For what have I done, really? I have
only over and over again pointed out—
mainly in the newspapers—that our do-
mestic animals have certain “human” rights.
They have the right, for example, to a
decent life during the short time they have
on this earth. Animals can feel pain and
sorrow and agony, and the fear of death,
just as we do. Every human being who has
a heart knows that, really. But apparently
it is possible to repress that knowledge
when profits and money making are in
trouble. How else can we explain that so
much cruelty to animals can be found in
every country in the world?

I am a farmer’s daughter. During my
childhood I lived among horses and cows
and calves and sheep and pigs and chick-
ens, all kinds of animals. And then ani-
mals were our friends. My friends. At that
time, there were mainly family farms-—
very few large-scale producers. Swedish
farmers have always been fond of their
animals and treated them as friends. That
is how it has been from time immemorial.
But now, family farming is pretty much a
thing of the past.

It all began one fateful day in the mid
1960’s. The politicians decided that it was

 

time to get things moving! Down with
family farming! they said. Up with large-
scale operation and big animal factories-—
so the people can have good food, and
cheap! They didn’t talk about “cows” and
“pigs” any more—they talked about “pro-
duction units,” which did not exactly call
for loving care, or even decent treatment.
This transition to large-scale, industrial-
ized animal husbandry was the worst deci-
sion and the worst miscalculation ever made
by the Swedish Parliament.

At that time, I did not know very much
about what was going on in Swedish agri-
culture. I had been a city dweller for years,
living in Stockholm, with no insight what-
soever into animal factories and big slaugh-
terhouses.

But one day, I happened to write a sort
of humorous article about cows in our big-
gest daily newspaper. I have always been
fond of cows. I forgave old Bessie long
ago for the time she picked me up on her
horns and tossed me halfway across the
pasture back home. I don’t know what
made her do that—maybe I got in her way.
I was three years old then. She was just
out there with our other cows, enjoying
the most glorious summer grazing, and
having a wonderful time. But now, as I
said, almost 80 years later, I wrote an ar—
ticle about cows. About how dreary the
life of a cow could be nowadays. A cow

 

 

is. . , - .
S weazsh children, dressed as characters

in Astrid Lindgren's books, sang songs
from her ﬁlms.

didn’t get to graze anymore, her calf was
taken from her as soon as it was born, and,
worst of all, she could no longer be courted
by an interested bull. The inseminator
came instead, and that was not the same.
After that article I got a letter from a
female veterinarian, Kristina Forslund. She
was—and still is—— a decent at the Swed-
ish University of Agriculture. She de-
scribed her experiences as a veterinarian,
with full insight in our animal husbandry,
and it was a harrowing account about inde-

11

Rosita Eck

 




 

 

cent treatment of animals. She succeeded
in making me so upset that even now, three
years later, I still haven’t gotten over it.
Kristina asked me to help her in her struggle
to bring about better animal husbandry.
She thought—optimist that she is—that
everyone would listen to me. At any rate
we managed to rouse a massive public re-
action, which finally resulted in a new
animal protection law in Sweden. The
Prime Minister himself came to my home
to deliver the good news. The new law
was supposed to be a kind of birthday
present for me! Goodness gracious, what a
wonderful present! But it turned out not to
be that wonderful—not on every point-—
not for all animals. There is a great deal
more that must be changed, before one can
lean back and relax!

And that is one of the reasons why I am
so happy to receive this medal. It gives me
the guts to continue the struggle! The
struggle, yes indeed. There are reactionar-
ies back home, you know, they don’t want
any changes. It is impossible, they say. It
is too expensive they say. But let us hope
that we one day can get an animal protec-
tion law as kind and decent as people in
other countries believe that we already
have.

For your help and your encouragement,
I thank you from the bottom of my heart.

I am sure that all Swedish cows and
bulls and calves and pigs and sheep and
chickens and hens are joining me when I
say it once more!

Thank you!

12

 

 

 

 

Astrid Lind‘gren's
magic words

For those who would like to
read, in translation, the letters
Astrid Lindgren wrote to the
big Stockholm newspaper Ex-
pressen to protest cruel factory
farming methods, AWI has
published a 27 -page booklet
which includes letters and ar-
ticles from 1985 to 1989.

It’s satire at its best with a
clear aim: to prohibit life-long
incarceration of farm animals.

“The prophets of proﬁtabil-
ity,” she writes, “are not going
to understand this attack on
today’s agribusiness. They’re
going to go on pushing their
assertion about how good ani-
mals actually have it , shut up in
their animal factories.

“All right, then, prove it! Let
us see how contented they are!
Tell the TV companies to come
on in and make a series of docu-
mentaries!

“No, the prophets of proﬁta-
bility won’t hear of it. And
you can understand them.
There’s a big risk that we might
all become vegetarians. And
what would that do for proﬁta-
bility?”

But Astrid has a solution and
she tells the government (and
the voters) about it in the form
of an irresistibly outrageous
dream. “I had a dream the other
night—and it was about our
Lord and the animals and the
Minister of Agriculture...”

If you’d like to read it, send
two dollars to AWI for the
booklet entitled, “How Astrid
Lindgren Achieved Enactrnent
of the 1988 Law Protecting
Farm Animals in Sweden.”

 

 

 

 

 

—
Growing worries

over intensive rearing

In Britain, a recent salmonella scare
linked to egg production has added
fuel to existing worries about the
health of everyday foods. More and
more the intensive rearing of farm
animals is coming under attack as
being neither safe (for the consumer)
nor moral. And the supermarkets are
responding.

A recent example is Marks &
Spencer’s new brand of pork. The
company says that the sows and pig-
lets are kept together for several
weeks, straw bedding is amply pro-
vided and medications are used spar-
ingly. The company also claims that
its veal comes from non-intensively
raised calves.

AWI Committee member
wins election

Dr Alexey Yablokoff, who recently
joined AWI’s International Commit-
tee representing the USSR, won elec-
tion to a four-year term in the Con-
gress of Peoples Deputies. He was
voted into ofﬁce on an ecological
platform representing the interests of
marnmalogists, ornithologists and
botanists.

As head of the Moscow Society for
the Protection of Animals, he is mak-
ing plans for animal shelters and for
effective fertility control to reduce
the need for euthanasia of unwanted
animals.

Dr.Yablokoff will serve for four
Years in the Congress of Peoples
Deputies, where he will be able to in—
troduce legislation and investigate iS-
sues affecting animals and the envi-
ronment.

Dr. Yablokoff is a senior scientist at
the USSR Academy of Science and
will retain this position while a
member of the Parliament.




 

 

 

“Poor bees, poor birds, poor men...”

By Ann Cottrell Free

The entwined fate of all living creatures was underscored by a
recent discovery of the source of Albert Schweitzer’s memorable
words that helped to launch the environmental awakening: “Man
has lost the capacity to foresee and forestall. He will end by de-
stroying the earth.”

Rachel Carson attributed
these words to Dr. Schweitzer
in her dedication to him of Si-
lent Spring. But, uncharac-
teristically, she did not sup-
ply the source.

Since he did not mention
speciﬁc agents of destruction,
some persons wondered if Dr.
Schweitzer could have been
referring to nuclear contami-
nation, not pesticides. One
pro-pesticide scientist recently
even accused Carson of de-
liberate deception. Unless the
source could be found, there
was no way to rebut this
charge. Thus a search was
undertaken by this writer,
inspired by a request from Ali
Silver, the Dutch nurse from
the Schweitzer Hospital in
Gabon, who became director
of the Schweitzer Archives in
his Alsatian village of
Gunsbach.

Inquiries of editors, associ-
ates and examination of her
ﬁles revealed nothing, but
almost by happenstance, a dis-
covery! The trail led not only
to pesticides, but to specific
victims ——- in this case, bees.

A report in 1956 that a
French apiarist’s bees had
been wiped out by indiscrimi-
nate spraying (probably DDT)
Prompted Dr. Schweitzer to
Write from Gabon a few words of condolence and foreboding:

“I am aware of some of the tragic repercussions of the chemical
ﬁght against insects taking place in France and elsewhere, and I
deplore them. Modern man no longer knows how to foresee or to
forestall. He will end by destroying the earth from which he and
Other living creatures draw their food. Poor bees, poor birds, poor
men...”

This passage from Schweitzer’s letter was published in the

 

Albert Schweitzer writes while his 21—year—old cat looks on.

“Modern man no longer knows how
to foresee or to forestall. He will
end by destroying the earth from

which he and other living creatures
draw their food. Poor bees, poor

birds, poor men...”

December, 1956 Bulletin of the International Union for the Con-
servation of Nature and Natural Resources, headquartered in
Brussels, Belgium. A well-alerted W. Joseph Campbell of the
Hartford Courant encountered it while doing research for an
article on the 25th anniversary of Silent Spring’s publication. It
was among Rachel Carson’s al-
ready examined unﬁled papers,
bequeathed to the Beinecke
Rare Book and Manuscript Li-
brary at Yale University. The
passage was underlined in blue
ink. The reason for her lack of
documentation may never be
found. (Possibly it was an over-
sight due to Ms. Carson’s fail-
ing health as she prepared the
book for publication.) In any
event, the discovery can silence
false charges against her and
prove to history that Dr.
Schweitzer was as concerned
about chemical pesticides as nu-
clear contamination.

Ali Silver died while the
search was underway, but she
would not have been surprised
that Dr. Schweitzer was refer-
ring to bees. For she was well
aware of his habit of freeing
bees (using the inverted drink-
ing glass technique) and, of
course, with the sign posted in
Lambarene guest rooms: “Do
not use insecticides for killing
the poor creatures. Invite them
to take a walk in nature. Insec-
ticides are dangerous for your
health.”

Clearly that slightly humor-
ous sign of admonition has its
roots in the deep conviction that
bees, birds, men are all part of
one whole— a conviction
shared by Rachel Carson as she tried to awaken us to a common
danger.

ﬁAlbert Schweitzer

 

Ann Free is the recipient of the Rachel Carson
Legacy Award, and Author/Editor of Animals,
Nature and Albert Schweitzer. Her latest book is
entitled No Room Save in the Heart.

13

 




 

Murdered in Amazonia—

but his spirit goes marching on

The assassination of Chico
Mendes has made his
followers still more
determined to save their
rainforest

Since 1985, and the resumption of democ-
racy in Brazil, the law prevailing in the
Amazonian hinterland, Brazil’s wild west,
has been the Law of the Jungle. During this

period the untrammeled dominance of might

over right has seen hired killers of thuggish
landbarons committing more than 700
murders. Only in two cases, where priests
were the victims, have the Brazilian au-
thorities taken any action whatever. For the
rest they have not wanted to know and the
world at large has not known.

Yet the murder three days before Christ-
mas of Francisco Mendes, who, like the
700 slain before him had run foul of the
land-grabbers’ greed, sent shock waves
around the world. And prodded the slum-
brous forces of Brazilian justice into fever-
ish activity. For Chico Mendes was differ-
ent.

The leader of a rubber-tappers’ union in
the western state of Acre, his efforts to
protect the forests of his
home state from the ﬁery
death meted out to them by
proﬂigate cattle ranchers in
next-door Rondonia, had
won him an international
reputation as well as aston-
ishing success. Indeed his
success was his undoing.

In sharp contrast to Ron-
donia which has witnessed
over 20% of its forests put
to the torch, Acre has lost

 

His policy of “extractive reserves” by
which substantial areas are set aside for the
exclusive use of the rubber tappers, the
seringueiros, found favor both with ecolo-
gists and the state government. Four such
reserves have been established. Therein
the seringueiros harvest and market the
latex, resin, Brazil nuts and other natural
produce of the forest. Moreover, within the
reserves they now have, for the first time in

_

“Chico
Mendes is dead
but never has his
voice been so
alive.”

their history legal, claim to the lands they
inhabit. The speculators and the torch
bearersare forbidden entry.

But in a part of the world where legal
entitlement gives no guarantee of tenure,
the seringueiros were quick to appreciate
that only through concerted action could
they hope to protect their forests and their

 

 
 

 

livelihood. Enthusiastically they enrolled
under Mendes’s banner to form the Rural
Workers Union. Chainsaw gangs not infre-
quently found their path to the trees blocked
by union members.

On the international scene, Mendes was
instrumental in persuading the Inter-Ameri-
can Development Bank to withhold a $65
million loan to Brazil for highway con-
struction in Amazonia pending proper
environmental safeguards. (The loan re-
mains on hold.) By the end of his journey
he had a multitude of friends amongst the
humble—and many bitterenemies amongst
the powerful.

In his lifetime Chico Mendes was a force
to be reckoned with. In his death he is still
more so. The wry comment of a Brazilian
very much on the other side of the fence, an
agribusiness man, aptly sums it up: “Chico
Mendes is dead but never has his voice been
so alive.”

The poignant truth is that Mendes’s
murder has roused, as has nothing else,
ordinary Brazilians to the realization that to
indulge in macho fantasies by acting out
their own version of Cowboys’n’Indians in
their own wild west is damaging their repu-
tation abroad, squanderin g their resources
at home and even imperiling the health of
the planet.

That the international community would
react in horror to the assassi-
nation of Mendes was pre-
dictable. That in response
to this reaction the Brazilian
govermnent would also wish
to be seen doing their ut-
most to track down the as-
sassins (there have been sev-
eral arrests but the two prin-
cipal suspects still elude the
dragnet) was also predict-
able. But quite unpredict-

sunivaz International

. able—and highly encourag'
only 6% of Its tree cover, ing—has been the response
and statewide the pace of from the grass roots.
forest clearance has slowed , Following Men (1 es’ s mur-
:ppremably in recent years. U nderBrazilian law deforestation is proof ofproductive occu at' d der over 200 Chico Mendes

me credit for th1s goes to . h b . . , P ‘0" an C . ran up 31-
Chico Mendes. hence IS t e am for conferring legal entitlement to the land. 0mmzttees sp g

14

most overnight. Across the




 

country the media gave the scandal maxi-
mum coverage whilst Rio de Janeiro’s lead-
ing newspaper Journal do Brazil named
Mendes Brazil’ s “Man of the Year”. There
is movement at last in that mental log-jam
which has tethered Brazilian attitudes on
development to values that have long since
had their day.
ACTION: Write the head of Brazil’s
federal police. Ask that all Chico Mendes’
killers be brought to trial and targeted fu-
ture victims be protected.

Write to:

Delegado Romeu Tuma

Departamento da Policia Federal

Ministerio da J ustica

Esplanada dos Ministerios,

Bloco T 70064

Brasilia DF Brazil

Altamira Protest

Amongst the have-nots of the Amazonian
forests the belief that there could be light at
the end of the tunnel has gained ground. In
Acre, the rubber-tappers’ union, far from
being cowed by the murder of their charis-
matic leader, is now imbued with the strong
feeling that the battle can and will be won.
Since the murder, union membership has
doubled. And the church is being outspo-
ken in support.

Meantime in the distant state of Para,
northern Brazil, Amazonian peoples of a
different kind have also been displaying a
spirit of renewed self-confidence. In Feb-
ruary, a thousand Amerindians from 25
tribes held a 4-day gathering at Altamira to
protest the imminent construction there
(international funding permitting) of two
huge hydroelectric dams. This would ﬂood
immense tracts of rainforest and numerous
Indian tenitories, and on past form (the
notorious Tucurui dam being but one ex-
ample) never reap any compensating eco-
nomic benefits.

Mingling freely with the Indians at
Altamira were scores of environmentalists
and anthropologists as well as 200 journal-
ists and 20 television crews from the world
over. The Indians now recognize that the
media can be a powerful ally in their last
Stand, their final desperate bid for survival.

The organizer of this event is Paulinho
Paiakan, chief of the Kayapo, a warrior
tribe with no tradition of lying down and
letting others walk all over them. A dy—
namic and fearless leader, he has galva-
nized the tribes people into peaceful but

 

forthright and, still more to the point, united
defence of their ancient lands. As one
young warrior at the Altamira gathering
said: “For the first time ever the tribes are
united and I cannot think they will ever go
to war with each other again.”

Like Mendes, the Kayapo chief carried
this mission to protect their homes and their
livelihood to that foreign citadel of power,
the World Bank in Washington D.C. It
speaks volumes for the Brazilian govern-
ment’s attitude to the Amerindians in gen-
eral and to this venture in particular that on
his return Paiakan was charged under the
so-called “Foreigner’s Law” which forbids
interference by foreigners in Brazil’s inter-
nal affairs. If found guilty he could face
imprisonment and/or expulsion from the
country— a country which has been home
to the Kayapo for more than 10,000 years.

The world’s reaction to the murder of
Chico Mendes coupled with the Indians’
resolve to stand have plainly embarrassed
the Brazilian government. But the Indians
have won this round in the continuing
struggle. There will be no international
funding of the Altamira dams project. The
World Bank has cancelled its projected
$500 million loan and the consortium of
commercial banks which were proposing a
$600 million package has also withdrawn.
In place of its Power Sector II loan, the
World Bank is now offering a $400 million
loan to be used strictly for environmental
purposes.

Nor will there be financing of the pro-
posed trans-Amazonian highway, at least
for the present. The Japanese industry which
takes 40% of the world’s production of
tropical timber wants the highway, which
now peters out in the forests of Acre, to be
extended westward through Acre across
the Andes and through Peru to the Paciﬁc
where massive quantities of logs could be
easily shipped to Japan. But the Japanese
government has bowed to intense intema-
tional pressure over the Brazilian rainforests,
and the Japanese Development Bank, re-
portedly, has cancelled plans to fund com-
pletion of the highway. This is good news
for the forests and their myriad species of
animal inhabitants. '

For more information about the Indians of
Brazil and the threats that many tribal peoples
face worldwide, write: Survival International
USA, 2121 Decatur Place N .W., Washington,
D.C. 20008 or phone: (202) 265-1077

 

All tuna boats must

carry observers
—

A measure that could save the
lives of tens of thousands of
dolphins

The law which came into force last N ovem-
ber requiring all tuna boats to carry an
observer has been stiffened by an injunc-
tion to the same effect issued by US District
Judge Thelton Henderson.

Although government lawyers have in-
sisted that the injunction was unnecessary
because the government has every inten-
tion of honoring the law, Judge Henderson
argued that a promise of voluntary compli-
ance did not make a court order redundant.
He said that compliance would cost the
government about $1 million and that in
view of its budgetary problems there was a
“reasonable apprehension” that not all the
tuna ﬂeet’s 35 boats would sail with ob-
servers.

There are solid grounds for believing that
hitherto the recorded kill of dolphins has
greatly underestimated the actual kill. With
a government observer on every boat this
problem should of course cease. But in
practice it will not cease until all observers
can conscientiously perform their function
without fear of harassment or intimidation.

Foreign fleets affected

Potentially the new law could save the
lives of tens of thousands of dolphins. For
it will (or should) trigger another law which
forbids the import of tuna caught by foreign
ﬂeets with a lower ratio of observers than
the US ﬂeet.

While the US tuna ﬂeet accounts for far
too many dolphin deaths (the annual quota
is 20,500), it is the foreign ﬂeets in the
southeastern Pacific which are overwhelm-
in gly the principal killers of dolphins. And
these ﬂeets are very dependent on exports
to the US market. Loss of access could be
a powerful suasion in bringing about a
more humane and responsible attitude.

 

15

 




 

 

 

 

The Fallacy of Wildlife

Conservation

by John A Livingston

McClelland and Stewart (Toronto, On-
tario) 1981. Reprinted 1988 (1 17 pages).
$9.95 (Canadian )

In case you missed this remarkable book
when it ﬁrst appeared in 1981, now is the
timeto catch up with its literate and fearless
criticism of conventional conservation. In
an opening note to the reader, Professor
Livingston writes, “For years I had been
uncritically mouthing the conservation
catechism; it was time to think it through.”
And this he does in a series of elegantly
reasoned analyses, destroying with a per-
fectly sharpened intellectual scalpel one
after another of wildlife management’s
cherished dogmas.

Noting that we must start with defini-
tions, he points out, “One reason is that the
words ‘conservation’ ‘ecology’ and ‘envi-
ronment’ have been so widely and so cyni-
cally co-opted in our time that they barely
retain a shred of their original meanings.”
He emphasizes the tendency to “separate
out and indeed to polarize ‘conservation’
and ‘preservation’. Many hunters, devel-
opers, planners, managers and others will
proclaim themselves as being conserva-
tion-oriented in the most modern, aware
and realistic way, by contrast with the old-
fashioned, stubborn ‘preservationists’ who
squat sullenly and stupidly in the way of
orderly progress. This peculiar conceptual
dichotomy is obviously as useful to the
production-consumption parade as it is
destructive of wild nature.”

The author makes clear how wildlife is
thought of as a “resource” whose use is
“vested solely and exclusively in the hu-
man interest.” His own concept is quite
different, and he states his working deﬁni-
tion of wildlife conservation thus: “The
preservation of wildlife forms and groups
of forms in perpetuity, for their own sakes,
irrespective of any connotation of present
or future human use.”

He would see wildlife “emancipated from
human serfdom,” because current conser-
vation methods have catastrophically failed.
“The dismal ﬁgures are widely published
and well-known. The terrifying trends are

16

 

BOOKS

 

readily visible.” They may not have been
so readily visible to the average person
seven years ago when this book was ﬁrst
published. But in 1989 the most casual
newspaper reader can empathize with Liv-

 

“What is
compassion, after. 7
all, and Where
does it come
from? And Why
do so may other
people feel '

nothing at all?”

 

 

 

ingston’s description, “Entirely out of
control, the human techno-machine guzzles
and lurches and vomits and rips its random
crazy course over the face of the once blue
planet...”

The second chapter, entitled “The Argu-
ments,” is organized under “Self interest”
(the longest), “Ethics”, “Spirituality,” and
“The Central Assumptions.” Under “the
‘Wise Use’ arguments,” we learn of the
“massive manipulation of the wildlife
‘resource’.” Following“Husbandry”comes
“Stewardship” and “Sustainable Harvest.”
These cliches are revealed for what they are
in entertaining fashion. For example;
“Signiﬁcantly, the wolf that takes the cari-
bou or the falcon that takes the teal or the
whale that grazes the krill is never seen to
be ‘harvesting’. ” Next come “Future Re-
sources” and “Science” under which the
author’s views on environmental impact
assessment are explicitly revealed: “...it
annoints and blesses the process of ‘devel-
opment,’ takes the initiative from the pre-
servationists, and, in most cases, effec—
tively bulldozes, gravels and hardtops the
road for the techno-machine.”

The “Quality of Life” argument is turned
toward the animals themselves. “I choose
to believe that nonhuman beings do per-
ceive quality and its absence in their envi-
ronments, and that they behave accord-

 

I—

 

ingly. Watch a wolf in a cage; watch a
porpoise in the open sea.”

Later, he writes, “Life quality means life
options, options for change... The culture of
the western techno-mechanistic (we some-
times call it ‘developed! ’) world seems to
me to be pathetically homogeneous. A
colossal irony is that we apparently per-
ceive this homogeneity (one world—in our
image) to be good.”

In forthright terms, he shows why con-
servation arguments based on self-interest
cannot be effective because they cannot
compete with the belief system of the
modern world. He entertains us with an
account of “the conceptual power struc-
ture. .. and imagined evolutionary hierarchy
in the Aristotelian mode with man as the
apex of a pyramid...Thus a baboon is more
‘highly’ evolved than an albatross, which is
more ‘advanced’ than a butterﬂy, which
outranks any giant redwood...Evolutionarily
ranking through life continuity is justiﬁed
on the assumption that evolution, up to the
present time has been purposeful, deter-
ministic and (most especially) progressive.
And it is now over. Man is the ﬁnal and
only absolute parameter of evolution.”

After carrying the reader through a con-
vincing analysis of the failure of logic and
reason in the struggle for conservation,
Livingston ends his book with a chapter
called “Experiencing” in which he speaks
of “unexpected moments of pure and inex-
pressible joy and happiness when the ‘free
ﬂow ’ between nature and myself was unob-
structed.” He asks, “What is compassion,
after all, and where does it come from? And
why do so may other people feel nothing at
all?”

Livingston calls the assumption that there
is a solution to the problem of wildlife
conservation “somewhat shaky” but points
to the direction; “...comp1iant acceptance
by individual human beings of member-
ship—which is to say, ‘place’-—in the beauty
that is the life process... It would be the
dissolution of the ancient western divorce
from nature.”

The Fallacy of Wildlife Conservation is
available from McClelland and Stewart:
481 University Avenue

Toronto, Ontario MSG 2E9

or by calling (416) 751-4105.

Please use a Visa card when ordering.




 

 

 

Laboratory Animal
Anesthesia: An introduction
for research workers and
technicians

by RA. Flecknell

Academic Press Limited (San Diego,
CA) I 987. 156 pages. $29.95

Laboratory Animal Anaesthesia, an intro-
duction to a very complicated, technical
subject, is a valuable addition to the grow-
ing literature of animal anesthesia. It is
more than a “how to” handbook. It is also
a pleasure to read a text so concerned with
humane treatment of animals.

Much of the knowledge of human anes-
thesia is applied without change for anes-
thesia in animals. Sometimes this creates
problems, because animals do not always
react in the same way as humans. For
example, nitrous oxide, commonly used
for general anesthesia in humans, is a very
weak anesthetic but when used following
heavy pre-operative sedation, it usually
results in unconsciousness so that muscle
relaxants can also be used without the pa-
tient being aware of the paralysis.

Not so with animals. Flecknell points
out that in animals, the analgesic potency
for nitrous oxide is about half the potency
in humans. If used in animals in the same
way as humans, the animal will be awake
and aware of the paralysis. And if there
are dramatic changes in blood pressure or
Pulse (coincident with surgical procedures
known to be painful), the depth of anesthe-
sia is insufficient.

However, it is important to understand
that these changes clearly distinguish be-
tween these different qualities. There are
inStances in human anesthesia where in the
Dost-operative period, human patients have
complained that they were awake during
Part of an operation, although it did not
hurt! Because of these problems, muscle
relaxants, in England, are subject to strict
Control by the Home Ofﬁce, and special
Permission is needed for their use.

. There is a good chapter on post-opera-
tlve Pain relief, an area often neglected in
Surgery 0f patients that can not complain.
Fleckneu points out that pain should not be
used to Produce post-operative immobility
as a means of preventing surgical wound

 

 

BOOKS

 

Benchmarks:
Alternative Methods
in Toxicology

 

 

 

 

 

Benchmarks: Alternative
Methods in Toxicology

Edited by MA. Mehlman
Princeton Scientific Publishing
(Princeton, NJ) 1989. 219 pages.
$55 .00

The first major book to be published as a
direct result of a grant by the National
Agricultural Library under the provisions
of the Improved Standards for Laboratory
Animals amendments to the Animal Wel-
fare Act is Benchmarks: Alternative Meth-
ads in Toxicology, editedby M.A. Mehlman.
Ten contributions by leading scientists in
the field are introduced by the ‘ editor’s
preface, reproduced in full below:

In recent times, alternative methods in bi-
omedical research and safety evaluation of
chemicals and compounds have come in-
creasingly to the fore. This development
represents the conﬂuence of several factors:
1) accelerating developments in basic bio-

._.l

 

logic methodology and understanding,
especially in-vitro, 2) increasing realization
of the wastefulness of such tests as the
classic LDso and Draize, once useful but
now considered archaic, and 3) increasing
insistence from the public and animal rights
groups that new understanding and method-
ologies be pressed into the service of reduc—
ing animal use and alleviating animal suf-
fering.

This volume, the first in a series, repre-
sents a joint effort by internationally recog-
nized scientists from the diverse disciplines
of industry, government, academia, and the
animal rights movement. These papers are
intended to serve as a catalyst for rapid
identiﬁcation, validation, and implementa-
tion of alternative methodologies. The term
“alternative” can be deﬁned as using meth-
ods which ( 1) Replace the use of animals,
(2) Reduce the number of animals used, or
(3) Refine existing procedures so that ani-
mals are subject to less pain and suffering. A
fourth “R” May be added to these——Respon—
sibility.

The “4R” principles are actively promul-
gated by sectors of the animal rights move-
ment and, in particular, by one of the fore-
most representatives, Henry Spira, a con-
tributor to this volume and coordinator of
the coalition to abolish the Draize and LDSo
tests. These principles are increasingly
discussed in the scientiﬁc community, and
implementation is well underway, particu-
larly in the toxicology sector.

Looking ahead, we see alternatives lead-
ing to a brighter future for all. Alternatives
tend to be faster, cheaper, and more predic—
tive of toxicity of chemicals, and they can
lead us to a a win-win situation in which
human health and the environment will be
more efficiently and better protected.

 

damage. It should be prevented instead by
proper suturing and splinting, and that pain
should be treated with analgesics. The
importance of mobility in the immediate
post-operative period, to prevent respira-
tory problems, is well documented in the
human, and mobility is encouraged. It IS
just as important in the animal. Flecknell
states that pain should be assumed to be
present, especially if the animal is quiet
and doesn’t move (unlike the human .pa-
tient who usually complains). Ambient
temperature control after surgery is more

important for small than for large animals.

The book is filled with a wealth of prac-
tical information and includes a chapter on
anesthesia of all the common species of
laboratory animals.

— Herbert Rackow, M.D.

 

Dr. Rackow is Professor Emeritus of An-
esthesiology, College of Physicians and
Surgeons at Columbia University and a
director of the Scientists Group for Reform
ofAnimal Experimentation.

17

 

 




 

 

 

LABORATORY ANIMALS

 

Immuno (cont. from page 5)

which also puzzled Justice Murphy:
“Though afforded what must be regarded
as a generous opportunity to clarify its
plans, Immuno never did so.

“We note that Immuno’s excuse for fail-
ing to avail itself of the opportunity to
respond, namely that it could not frame a
proper reply without access to McGreal’s
source material, is nonsensical. No one
knew better about Immuno’s plans than
Immuno itself. . .

“Of the many statements cited by the
plaintiff in this ill-founded libel suit, there
was not one that was actionable. Without
exception, the statements at issue were ei-
ther opinion absolutely privileged under
the First Amendment, or statements which
the plaintiff utterly failed to show suscep-
tible of being proved false. Indeed most of
the factual statements claimed by the plain-
tiff to be defamatory were, on the record
before us, demonstrably true!”

The 5-justice panel was unanimous in
ordering that the lower court judgment be
reversed and the complaint dismissed with

 

costs. AWI was one of eightanimal welfare
groups to submit an amicus brief.

Late news from Immuno
Immuno is appealing the decision, and The
National Association for Biomedical Re-
search (NABR) has joined Immuno by
ﬁling an amicus brief . In a letter to the New
York Court of Appeals, NABR claims that
it “believes in the protection given to a free
press by the First Amendment.” Neverthe-
less NABR, contradicting the findings of
the five judges, claims that false statements
were made that “impact on the public per-
ception of the use of laboratory animals for
medical research and testing...”

 

Noxell develops
Draize alternative

The Noxell corporation, citing a respect for
the “concerns of those who object to the use
of animals in product safety testing,” an-
nounced that it will now test for the safety

 

The Environmental Protection Agency
has revised its policy for Acute Toxicity
Testing and is disseminating it to indus-
try, governmental bodies, scientiﬁc so-
cieties and animal welfare groups.

According to the policy statement,
“...the ﬁrst consideration for a chemical
for which there is no acute toxicity data,
should be areview of structurally related
compounds, followed by the limit test
when appropriate. In those cases when
testing beyond the limit test is indicated,
consideration should be given to well-
designed abbreviated test schemes which
employ minimal numbers of animals, as
discussed below. In most cases, it is
expected that these tests can be struc-
tured to give enough infonnation on acute
toxicity to obviate the need for further
acute studies.”

In summarizing, the policy announce-
ment states, “EPA has modified its ap-
proach to acute toxicity testing, recog-
nizing that appropriate information for
safety evaluation can be developed using
fewer animals than had been recom-

 

New EPA policy to reduce numbers of test animals

mended in the past. We strongly urge
industry to use these abbreviated test
methodologies, whenever appropriate,
as replacements for the three-dose multi-
faceted method EPA previously had
recommended.

“EPA urges industry to begin submit-
ting data obtained with alternate meth-
ods which use fewer animals on aroutine
basis; the Agency is planning to revise
its testing guidelines to incorporate the
above guidance. We plan to accept only
newly generated industry data that con-
forms with our revised guidance unless
an adequate rationale (e.g., data gener-
ated in accordance with regulatory re-
quirements other than those of EPA) ac-
companies the submission; data without
a rationale may be returned to the sub-
mitter.”

The public is invited to comment and
to “provide information on still other al-
ternate methodologies which have pro-
gressed to a stage of validation which
would be acceptable to the scientiﬁc
community.”

 

 

 

18

of its products using a non-animal screen-
in g method.

The new method should eliminate the
need for 80 to 90% of the rabbits subjected
to the painful Draize test. Noxell is the
international marketer of Noxzema skin
products, as well as Cover girl and Clarion
cosmetics.

The scientifically validated test, called
Agarose Diffusion Method (ADM), uses
tissue culture with agarose overlay. Prod-
ucts are placed on filter paper discs on the
agarose surface to screen for toxicity. The
method has been used to test plastics in
medical devices. N oxell has screened
liquid samples, pastes, creams and powders
with ADM to test for eye irritation. Results
from 38 products tested have shown an
average 90 % correlation with the results of
animal tests.

The company has heralded the new test
as “a critical step toward the eventual elimi-
nation of the need for animals used in
Noxell’s product safety testing program.”

Noxell has met with the FDA about the
new testand plans to share its scientiﬁc data
with the government, the scientific com-
munity and the public.

I CORRECTION I

An article in the Fall/W inter 1988/89 Quar-
terly describing a complaint about an ex-
periment on rats contained an error in stat-
ing thatthe experiment was conducted at the
“Veterinary Department of the University
of Minnesota.” In fact, the experiment was
conducted at Jackson Hall, a part of the
University of Minnesota Medical School
University Hospital. Dr. David G. Thawley .
Interim Dean of the College of Veterinary
Medicine at the University of Minnesota,
points out that the only “Veterinary Depart-
ment at the University of Minnesota” is the
College of Veterinary Medicine at the Uni-
versity of Minnesota, and that the College
of Veterinary Medicine neither undertook
the studies, nor employed the employee,
described in the article. AWI regrets the
error in describing where the experiment
was conducted. The error resulted from
misunderstanding a letter describing an
investigation of the complaint by the Uni-
versity Animal Care Committee. AWI
apologizes to the College of Veterinary
Medicine for the error.

 




 

 

Fay Brisk worked with passion to protect animals. Her long
experience in key government positions gave her a toughness and
effectiveness rarely seen in independent, unpaid lobbyists and
hands-on animal welfare workers.

She served for eight years in the White House during the Kennedy
and Johnson Administrations, and
was domestic news chief under
Edward R. Murrow in the US Infor-
mation Agency from 1961 to 1963.

She began as a reporter for The
Reading Eagle and a stringer for
ThePhiladelphiaRecord from 1937
till 1942 when she enlisted in the
Women’s Army Corps and served
as a public affairs ofﬁcer in Iowa.
She was graduated from Ofﬁcer’s
Candidate School as a commis-
sioned ofﬁcer.

In 1948, she joined the Economic
Operation Administration under the
Marshall Plan. In 1959 she received
a special award for her work on the
American National Exhibition in
Moscow, the first cultural break-
through to Russia.

She served as a public affairs of-
ﬁcer for White House consumer ad-
vocates Betty Fumess and Virginia
Knauer and as deputy director of in-
formation for the Small Business Administration.

After her retirement from government service in 1971, she
devoted her energies to reforming the treatment of animals trans-
ported by air.

She created a temporary animalport at Washington National

Weicker in 1975.

-
Fay Brisk 1917

 

 

 

1989

Airport entirely staffed by volunteers. She brought inﬂuential
members of Congress to see the incoming shipments, persuading
them to take legislative action to prevent the outrageous abuses
which were standard practice in shipping puppies from midwestem
puppy mills for the commercial pet trade and primates for labora-
tory use. She led the ﬁght for the 1976
amendments to the federal Animal
Welfare Act.

The Albert Schweitzer medal of the
Animal Welfare Institute was pre-
sented to her by Senator Lowell
Weicker in 1975 in recognition of her
efforts to reform animal transport and
for her longstanding work to stamp
out the cruelty and abuse in the trade in
laboratory dogs.

Fay Brisk was intimately involved
in the passage of the 1966 Laboratory
Animal Welfare Act which owed its
enactment to the odyssey of Pepper, a
Dalmatian from Pennsylvania, sold to
a New York laboratory. Pepper died
on the operating table and was inciner-
ated while her owners were still des-
perately attempting to ﬁnd her. It was
Fay who phoned the laboratory and
got the news. And it was the high-
handed dismissal of the anxious fam-
ily by a big dog dealer who denied
them access to his premises that led the way for this landmark leg-
islation.

The death of Fay Brisk is a major loss to the movement, but her
work will be continued because her fearless determination set an
inspiring example that will not be forgotten.

 

 

Animal Welfare Institute

Directors
Madeleine Bemelmans

International Committee
Aline de Aluja, D.V.M. —— Mexico

Roger Payne, Ph.D.
Samuel Peacock, M.D.

 

Gerard Bertrand, Ph.D.
Marjorie Cooke
Christabel Gough

David 0. Hill

Sue Hunt Hollingsworth
Freeborn G. Jewett, Jr.
Christine Stevens
Aileen Train

Cynthia Wilson

Ofﬁcers

Christine Stevens, President
Cynthia Wilson, Vice President
Marjorie Cooke, Sectretary
Roger L. Stevens, Treasurer

¥

\

 

 

T.G. Antikas, D.V.M. — Greece John Walsh, M.D.
Ambassador Tabarak Husain -—
Bangladesh Staff

Angela King —— United Kingdom
Simon Muchiru —— Kenya

David Ricardo —— Canada
Godofredo Stutzin —— Chile

Mrs. Fumihiko Togo —-— Japan
Klaus Vestergaard, Ph.D. —

Denmark
Dr. Alexey Yablokov — U.S.S.R

Scientific Committee
Marjorie Anchel, Ph.D.
Bennett Derby, M.D.

F. Barbara Orlans, Ph.D.

Patrick Allen, Editorial Consultant

Jessie Despard, Publications Coordinator

Rosita Eek, Administrative Assistant for
Communications

Diane Halverson, Research Associate for
Farm Animals

Lynne Hutchison, Whale Campaign
Coordinator

Cathy Liss, Research Associate

Nell Nanghton, Mail Order Secretary

Greta Nilsson, Wildlife Consultant

Victor Perez, Clerical Assistant

Laura Swedberg, Administrative Assistant

Louise Wright, Research Assistant

 

 

 

 

 

/

19

 




 

 

 

 

Bequests to the
Animal Welfare
Institute

To all of you who would like to
help assure the Animal Welfare In-
stitute’s future through aprovision
in your will, this general from of
bequest is suggested:

“I give, devise and bequeath to the
Animal Welfare Institute, a not-
for-proﬁt corporation located in
Washington, DC. the sum of
$ and/or (specifically
described property)

We welcome any inquiries you may
have. In cases where you have
specific wishes about the disposi-
tion of your bequest, we suggest
you discuss such provisions with
your attorney.

Animal Welfare Institute
Post Office Box 3650
Washington, DC. 20007

 

 

 

 

 

—

Putting an end to ivory sales

Sotheby’s, the famous
international auction
house, Nordstrom’s,
the big department
store, and Cost Plus
Imports, a jewelry store
chain, have all stopped
selling ivory in an ef-
fort to save the African
elephant.

“This is very much of
a corporate statement,”
said Sotheby’s presi-
dent, Michael Ainslie,
referring to the elephant
slaughter as an atrocity.
The new policy applies
to the corporation’s 17
auction centers and 44 ofﬁces worldwide.
No tusks will be auctioned and any art-
works less than 50 years are also banned
from sale.

Cost plus President Steven Boone has
taken a strong stand for the African ele-
phant, urging the government to list the
species as endangered under the Endan-
gered Species Act. The chain had been
selling ivory rings, necklaces, and brace—
lets from Hong Kong. According to The

 

Environmental Investigation Agency

Keeper of the Tanzanian ivory room holds tasks taken from
very young elephants. The pile of tiny tasks is I 8 inches deep.

Journal of Commerce (New York) March
15,1989, the“WestCoastchain of 38retail
jewelry stores will stop selling imported
ivory, saying it fears that much of its legally
imported merchandise is made from
poached elephant tusks.”

Action:

Encourage your local jewelry stores, de-
partment stores and auction houses to fol-
low suit. Urge them to stop selling ivory.

 

Animal Welfare Institute
PO. Box 3650
Washington, DC. 20007

 

Non-Profit Org.
US. POSTAGE

PAID
Washington. DC.
Permit No. 2300

 

 

 

 




73” HWMKXHVH HHMmie .. ‘3
MW 7wa M. q, / NH 51:3“

MW'OH‘} 6/] { 6] [:9 8’ -’
  . as”?

H. .g
m a ,aL'H'lﬁé‘Hnt‘l \6’. HH (F Q, (3L- 9 . d f)

m .Tfjpyf, 44am cry/AH

08m!" HHfg. $+6 ”if” §' §

,. [WW 6)")
F>r€éigffjcxw(H;IEHhaﬂK e13
902*, 19%?! We'H’h Hm! CH 6 c .,- g: in +5 (,0 (4’17: (xi/“aw"
’Hﬂa m m LH Hm 0 (H (:7 53+ (,1 0,4- ;L; ‘41,) u, H H), {We 5] Mg 4-2:
a? M AH'Hé'r‘ 6.756} Eern‘wgl, G; n 'm ﬁg} pun-)3, 45A :1: .31 Huff/k
'“H’Eﬁ @ ENC H C’faH‘é’eH ~41: be ham/H” ({5}! 3: 07C?“

(4;? ﬁr-‘QHEV- he“: HRH”; sz H’Enf" Mpg) ré’ﬁ (:7: Hbc‘llanI/wj‘
w 1m Hm m we \m m} ‘np‘r’ Hm-Lxe 52¢er A but?)
+9 Hm. m dig-) <1?va MH men cw é» W

Ha‘Hc'p c E n e: (“m H [0 HS, 64 ‘1‘ L" WH’“

I
:H: W» J} CS (5 (1% LO {2 PH“ ”HQ (19’ (46‘ DH ~ [I 8'"

” ' ' H"'r‘ q'mnWJMW
WHHEYH mini/H €64,qu “Hu,1(27vw~/'tc’..9 5“er TI”
' , ‘ f: ~. , / .. 1.3 ....

ﬁfe 0W9 u; 0-H?) (A Lf‘ea’q€+0xr\£‘1m e W H06“ :C’ 0 '

1‘ " / ~ V r , r" ' é‘go’n
CC/HKOH QOH LH’ LM‘K‘H' +in70rL1) ‘+ LL) OHS 05H fb 1/
‘1 w an» Nﬂé'ss‘» 41+) mum 470 H ”35) . W
“VHWHH j: be 591 mg la‘én L4 HHFLLI Gﬂh Li’vtmcxéa/ “fl/7m“
"H/H’HEF’Q (/LHQPQ ﬁnahVH'Qé‘tHwéS ﬁ’fOr fact/In? _
H’H’He"£‘r{H) LL’MH'CHH HMW SHOcv-oH L47 3}?!” 35’ waif)“,
' (WW Vst’eS

 




 
  
 

    
       
   
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
     
   

S'th‘re: I :3 . .
LL€61F9A :FCJ A 1110* GJQ K, @LL+ Aug [4111013 CO—{é (é'ZWLWLM/

LOKQHE/Jléﬂ 11/1 117.1Lf>~€11/11é>n¥&c1‘1/9n1 M11 0111111114:i 13,141,:

01L) {3011’3911Jr/1L Suﬁ/ﬁCRJKA b1, 431:;1/111/75111/2; W15» J'Z’l'ﬂ‘ei

:1: Near/115A} Lalo-1111f 11‘} 9780121131261”, 4/516- Wow 1/117

in 2; r701" CIF‘QW' (ﬂ’hf “fl/UPHI/WF’L Pair/1111f 0 £10116. MAME?
H116 +1476? 1/11111112J95’1’nf 016116- ‘anLf-‘ule‘f‘é (“f/1‘6
€111,116 0% an '10: J A ‘m/V) {1,31%} 11.2% '0’sz g Ag
J10“; hC‘qD’ va §G MCH‘WLL UL ears) (£1.6an 113513315?nt1!
b53111 9419 Jen, QHA 11/1 aALJ +15qu 6' J JIM
GOAQ 1n LIL/NC hegoL/A de’l'M/‘WCJ 9h9‘if" L0551112‘cf1j

he: ch CE’ 1111115 06‘an (\ch k" W'QY “1ng

kum OJM

$11111 6313111111 +1611 111“ v16a€r bf Cow-c1 7/7

.11*1£>r'1€1]‘+9 €70 01/51,”,0 +51 401K660 3.41%?) (7c
J‘Lﬁm’QWCBL +1” fwml‘we befN/‘L: of 4,11,,gjm.»
TL"? W19 (1 CﬂHKMpQ/ﬂnalf
l ef #11111 aim/.411 1g

)eﬂmLOJ J€01 W 1%“

+93J’W QrC wt 1‘”) 19441161?
thvaC‘h/o‘tﬂﬁd (1 be
910T LWQ 1,1201% 001(011111‘11/L
"VJ/“61* 01L (1 {1141111 ng-ane)

WDVWW 46 be. A \nCvLJCCyCchJ
Why? hﬁR-{Mc 41mg 1: 00-111 O‘QOJFQ 407/

+1113 19 11/1/1757“




 
   

 
 

' s

. . '3 ~ A "
4:441‘4LAC‘6K4EWC4 £0444 02? m4 m4)é{4‘€ 4” wt) 01:4 IS (ﬂip ...

   

g I04WLf} V) *6": 4:1 é? 93¢;ch m] be? “417/- 936 b €44"? r‘ 0140475 “/"Aém
4 ‘- i

"I! 4'? 4M Maw, mi? 4145 m 2444“} 50‘ L W ’4” “"1

(re 64 #4 m c’ 49 4"41544‘ 4&7", bod; r") 04-» 4-0 4') a (“”44” m V

      
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
  
  
  

\

4" 6 0W4 447:" 4 V? cm 44w aﬂoat
:4: G 544/) (But; 57 f§+ Ctr/i (719/1640; “4436(4/ :

IMF/Gm) 5754 423' W 1‘41/1-{5 g 0n ()4 Lq 5.4, 1/6 r; em) riggmq

In PKWY/w 04x76 {‘éL‘ (4 :44” “34,4 b71r’)’)e(') we 0L9€r~g
4414(“464445'4 4%: CL 401(01‘5/ 04443443m1‘” ham/LS?) $4!
MCI/146:1) 0m at 4:444) 4,5l4;,+{j at [4 MM] h'T‘ by}?
M a H \43 Wt ”OWN/3 W 6‘ '17; Mac/4 4131‘“ MT #4

CM 9 1M3 ‘4’!“ m? 0n {5’ Svééﬂhg’cw 40 N “40%);

a ‘4‘?”4 who/mom «saw ws' (agﬂ’wm‘) 4m
40$ 1444044346 46%6 Hf 4% fin/J amfvfn 49%
, —ac41?ul<€nr‘039€r) Mm 4w “We Mag/3a; n3»,

Wm» [{MK $442646, We M 4a~474€r JM/pm

HF
4944 (#8

443m! 44C gmﬂ 4x8 L4’CM§1(DF<\€’

Chit/Km” Wade) ‘41" (“01 “$61 0’» 404%- €n§ ‘ %£~
44 MW

     

new) LL Cf“. HER/l “€079.” 62964- 6761+ é

   

1) 2‘1433‘6 J C1 I’d lyé’l “0‘ “Q FT (4 [L4 duty/t] 9 M net/WW

  




H
€ If 6%“ C“ I ”I W} 11176 ‘7 WWW MM" war as {0&1} m-
9H“; 9 0" A" f. “pf/ED 1H h H. 6) f, I) 0L¥éllq {3S} L! 23 p“ g at V} l (/3

“14;?” a 16/11? +27 «S’Jrﬂmc‘fj '30 (ii/ama/L/ {004 013.5% 2;,

I,

Hﬁf C361! 01 1’) K C! 5'! (tilt/714’ béf'ét f“ ‘1 (T Q") 7 [43:37 57 f”;
OM’WCS 1") 84’. (J) ) L/ if P511- {+ a (I ”F ‘ILD (A (14% If. a @161
M S C; (H may w 67f M: M MM» c» K. M Mr- we :3 ..

51/19 3'13"” 9 a '90- L¢,.>€(‘é‘ “Va 1‘“'1‘, 01“"2/10‘ “”7 ’ ”‘7;
H): 01? “€01! amp! {Cm/an 4/1"“ 9 1906261112”: 1

WM a“ hmtﬂzq Wff‘f; +9 WM 4M6 1 n W rum-104.27,
WM MMW KE’ Mr I 060-! aq-mmcgf- ”Hug “67774,.114;

”:1," QLAg " LA.» ‘34 M I" g 64:1. CL“ 0 kﬂ‘e Y\ 39bit. a V1“ [36"; N :{11 J
l ' it

’ " . , D
‘19 Se‘e LhNQ @C‘\Df all/NA COM OX‘JIDH 0% Ella; {VEGA/11417
“W Uh‘xQW“) (4)\’\€v\ I bu L- J

W» 6n 1/ wow; 2 @51ch mm] oh: of { .rﬁwp
\ng\;.74€} 9h \QCkUmc] ML?) bé’mr‘A 5m afﬁrm
LAWN 1’“ V) Q7" 9+? ( MM) : h 0101‘. “Mn 6: “Mime,
M r was Mm. w / MM
“WM weth Om, bu? Wf’g/t’\€(‘ Rant “9 7/12 33”)”
“Make ~er MM’M pf’ W301 u mm.) “Ml/‘1 ,1; We;
GNMMMMJM ho GOMH 417,3 I: LOAD] .7-“

.M‘

 




    
 

   
 

n gay" ”Illa (M1 M1 34. L in hit! $3171”) 6" ‘3 I") [1/ 9

[66L “3‘0
L)[£}L)§>C’C) Mgé’cL ‘Lw‘i MC; (“Lg/I1 47m ﬁamrmﬂr} an

9- '0 L“ U018 00%;
R Li {if W157"; fl”? g’i’CL “LO OI {49% 1'“ mm KY . g0 “’5 L

SLLDQLOL LDVZ “LI-”14% ‘ﬁ‘ir‘tm bf],

    
     
   
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 

~1~~€Im m («CL u, e; M
:L/ELILC‘L LL16? 96"““1M 4r m “) ({ﬂm 7] L’TLZI’ (PH/L A61"

L7 f ("”1 {9 1% {‘6‘va as: [q xxx-nag Ana-L. (2% Lad-W}?

f 0am LUWA‘U ‘3L51vWCL ‘L’L'Lg Cit“ I’Paigéﬂ/‘n

 

“LLWICL m}; ‘L / b? 0&1 é’g “LL/I 5/ gr” {I 6.1 h 4 I my] 74/? (A ’0 6.9671,».(7
CL ‘hE L L10 FELLLLDIL) 9f" at) It'll/1534:] S $th~ﬁl~gﬂnai (11»;ng

\DAE 3") 900406 CHM]: PFC“? m 237W {‘7¢0€£7(I7\

41¢,“L1f’xémqi «A $ 1 Ln: LcL‘Lﬂ Vh 1 670W) 0L?

C‘ﬁg {m . or“ w L1 60‘ Same; L3st 1977 ”1";
G“OL\ €(\C&\f\r€4\9L€I

% 1 ﬂ (*5ij 97/1} LI [714 {‘5
fL C N I“ mlﬁ‘mﬁamcgn

 
 




