PITTSBURGH PRESS - June 5, 1982

Deer Prefers Com

fort Of House

Housebroken ‘Beanie’ Eats From BOWI, Drinks Coffee

WADENA, Minn. (UPI) — Beanie
the deer has lived with the Hartman
family since she was a day old. She
is househroken, eats from a bowl
and even gets her own coffees

But now she has started staying
out all night and Carolyn and War-
ren Hartman think it might be time
to set her free.

“She thinks I’m her mother,” Mrs.
Hartman said. “We got her when she
was not even a day old and she
never knew her mother.” .

Hartman, a veterinarian, has
nursed many deer back to health
and sent them back to the woods in
the central Minnesota town.

But Beanie was different.

Department of Natural Re-
sources officers found her a year
ago, after she was run over by a
piece of logging equipment. Hart-
man put a splint on one hind leg and
brought her home because she had
to be fed from a bottle.

Beanie soon let it be known she
preferred the comforts of the Hart-
man home, set on a 60-acre tract at
the edge of town, to the uncertain-
ties of the woods beyond.

She was easily house-trained and
learned the meaning of “no”.

“Deer are very intelligent ani-

~ mals,” Mrs. Hartman said. “They

learn quickly and adjust easily.”

She breakfasts with the family
daily — eating dry cereal from a
bowl —- romps With the children and
then catches a nap on the couch.

Beanie gets her own coffee by

pressing down a small handle on the -
coffee urn at the kitchen counter —— _,

“She lets some coffee run out and
then laps it up,” Mrs. Hartman said.

The neighbors have accepted
Beanie -- she goes out to meet the
kids coming home from school,
chases dogs and makes friends with
women hanging laundry.

to death.”

But Beanie is beginning to spend
more time away- from home.

“We think she is spending time
with the deer. She’s out all night and
often doesn’t get back until 11 am,”
Mrs. Hartman said.

So the family is considering a:

, offer. to put Beanie in a game farm

or refuge. -- -

“Of course, I would have to go
with her and spend several day:
until I was.sure she was used to
other people”, Mrs; Hartman said,
“If I didn’t go with her for a while.
I’m sure she would just run herself

UPI Telephoto

Beanie, a 1-year-old deer who eats breakfast from the table, thinks Carolyn Hartnian is her mother.

 




 

 

 

Once the Arabian oryx ran wild.
This antelope has straight horns that.
viewed from the side. merge into one
and may have inspired the myth of the
unicorn. But while the myth is likely to
endure. the oryx itselfmay vanish. If
the oryx—and dozens of other endan-
gered species—is saved. it will hap-
pen in a kind of space-age Noah‘s
Ark. That ark is today’s :00.

oratory at the San Diego Zoo contains
two metal chests that look like aging
clothes dryers Without windows. They
are actually freezers, storing hundreds
of cells of exotic wild animals at minus
384 degrees Fahrenheit. The cells—-
male sperm cells, female ova. even
. embryos—are kept for the day when
medical technology enables scientists
to reproduce nearly extinct species
through artiﬁcial insemination. embryo
transplants and perhaps even cloning.
Indeed. the process already has started.

San Diego’s researchers call these
chests their “Frozen Zoo." Since PA-
RADE last reported on the work of
Dr. Kurt Benirschke. curator of the
project. scientists have made much
progress at breeding animals in captivity.

"We‘re breeding animals in mos
that would have been thought impos-
sible 20 years ago." says Wayne Homan.
general curator of the Phoenix 200.

Zoos need to reproduce animals in
captivity. partly because of the expense
of buying a wild creature. But often
the problem is not money. Some spe-
cies simply cannot be bought. Many
have become extinct. and others are
nearly extinct. For example. the grace-
ful Mhorr gazelle has disappeared in
its African habitat and now can be
found only in captivity.

“More species are going to have to
be sustained in captivity if they are
going to survive at all." says William
Conway. director of the New York
Zoological Society. which runs. the

 

 

What zoos do to preserve life on earth

 

 

 

 

 

v- E.“

 

 

A Mhorr gazelle nuzzles her new baby, born in February in the San Diego Zoo.

Zoos are seeking to save this rare species, extinct in its African habitat.

Bronx Zoo in New York City.

To promote animal mating. zoos
must try to be good matchmakers.
One species needs space to perform
courtship dances. Another needs to
be kept away from prying eyes. as, for
instance, the South American maned
wolf. a shy creature being bred at the
National Zoo in Washington. DC.

Some zoos are successfully using
artiﬁcial insemination to help along
the propagation process. At the London
Zoo. a baby puma named Bonny was
born through artificial insemination.
becoming the world's ﬁrst artificially
bred big cat.

To achieve “mass production“ of
rare species . researchers at several mos
also are experimenting with embryo
transplants—already an established pro-
cedure in the cattle industry. The proc-
ess uses hormones to induce a female
to "superov'ulate." or produce a dozen

ova instead of one. Then the female is
mated. and the fertilized eggs are
harvested and frozen. Eventually. the
embryos will be implanted in the uter-
uses of females of related. not-so-rare
species.

There could be spectacular appl ica-
tions. Tigers could be born from more
plentiful lion mothers. for example.
and pygmy chimpanzees could be born
from more prevalent species of chim-
panzees. Unfortunately. scientists have
not yet mastered the challenge of tak-
ing fertilized embryos out of one spe-
cies. implanting them in another. and
producing babies.

Dr. Barbara Durrant. a reproduc-
tive physiologist at the San Diego Zoo.
observes that each species must be
approached differently because each
has a different reproductive cycle.
“Every animal is an individual and
potentially will react differently to drugs

 

 

BY JOSEPH STOCKER

Mm ”it'll" /nu

PARADE - 5/30‘82

and to hormones." she says.

Dr. .Benirschke suggests that mas- '
tering’these methods of captive breed— ,
ing is essential to save a rare species '
such as the okapi. a relative of the
giraffe. “There are 60 okapis in cap-
tivity." he says. “and we won't be
getting any more. If we learn this re-

mgA Spemes

productive physiology real l y well. we

could make 20 okapi babies this year. " 3

Do scientists believe they are ”playing 2
God" with these reproductive tech- '
niques'? Not at all. says Benirschke.
He maintains that the people who are
playing God are those who cut down
forests and build dams and cities that
shrink the habitats of wild animals
and threaten their survival.

Zoos already are helping to save the
Arabian oryx. Hunters had decimated
herds of oryx in their native habitat on
the Arabian peninsula. By the end of
World War II. the survival of the oryx
in Saudi Arabia and Oman was jeopar-
dized. even though oryx game pre-
serves were established.

British conservation groups sought
a refuge for the oryx. They decided on
the Phoenix Zoo. which had a climate
similar to the Arabian peninsula. So
the oryx were taken—not two-by-tvvo
but in a group of nine—to Phoenix.
where. in 1963. the first oryx calf “(is
born in captivity. As more calves were
bred. they were sent to zoos around
the world to guard against an epidem-
ic that might destroy all the oryx.

Another hope for the survival of the
oryx lies in embryo transplanting.
Durrant has placed the embryo of an
Arabian oryx in the "Frozen Zoo."
The donor of the embryo is a 16-year-
old female oryx. still healthy enough
to mate but too old to carry a fetus to
term. “We wanted to get one more
embryo before she died." Durrant says.

This spring she was planning to
take the oryx embryo out ofthe frozen
storage and plant it in a scimitar—homcd
oryx. a related but more numerous
species. If the transplant succeeds.
the surrogate mother will produce an
Arabian oryx calf—one more precious
member to add to a world herd that is
still in danger of extinction. B1

 

 

 

 




 

([hitago Urihune Tuesday, June 1, 1982 Section 2

LincOln Park

revolUtIon. °

Walls come down at 200

By Jeff Lyon

0W DO YOU punish a camel?

Short of pushing him through

the eye of a needle, that is.

You can’t short-ration him.

He‘s a walking bottle of Hinckley 8:
Schmitt. He’d just laugh at you. You
can‘t spank his rump. It’s too high,
and anyway. he wouldn’t feel it. His
fur is as thick and matted as a bin of
old throw rugs at a fire sale.

So in frustration, Lincoln Park Zoo
keeper Betsy Bartholomay just stood
there fuming at 1,800 pounds of Bacv
trian camel. “You’re bad, Noah," she
said. over and over. “Bad! Badf
Bad?" The two-humped Asian camel '
was smiling peacefully at her. as
camels do.

“What‘s the matter?" asked assis-
tant zoo director Dennis Meritt,
coming upon the scene. “Oh.” groused
Bartholomay, who is the daughter of
Chicago Park District Commissioner
William Bartholomay, “he chewed
through his leather lead again.”

Meritt just sighed. Another vexation
as he scuttled about getting the 200’s.
latest creation, a $2 million slice of
simulated veldt called the Hooved Ani-
mal Area, ready for its public un-
veiling June 19. The vexations have
been many.

Two weeks ago, the slender Meritt
physically had to carry a kicking,
squirming young Grant’s gazelle al-
most a city block. The frantic gazelle,
part of a shipment from the West
Coast, had been jumping around in the
truck, refusing to come out, and Mer-
itt feared it would strike its head on
the roof. Broken necks during cross-
country transit are among the biggest
killers of young gazelles.

MERITT'WAS still covered with
bruises from that episode. He was
lucky it wasn’t something heavier,
such as a wildebeest. As they say, no
gnus is good gnus.

Then he had to devise a way to
protect the long, tender horns of the
new, Arabian oryx calves. He finally
improvised by sheathing their horns in
lengths of garden hose. They look '
roughly like inebriated party guests
with lampshades on their heads.

The other afternoon he was walking
by the site of the new habitat and
suddenly waved his hand at the sky'in
a gesture of irony. “Look at that,” he
said, pointing to a pond in the new
zebra area. “We put those ponds in so
our rare Old World storks and cranes
would have a place to wade. And who
takes over?" . _

A local family of mallard ducks was
floating around possessively.

These are all minor headaches. In a '

few weeks the zoo will unveil the _»
handsome new habitat, which covers:
an acre of formerly undeveloped zoo
property on the south end.

Then come September, the new $6
million large mammal area will be
opened on two acres at the north end.

Together with last fall’s opening of
the penguin and seabird hause, it will
culminate a period of intense con-
struction at the venerable North Side

They are splendid new projects, in:
corporating the latest in design, pro-ﬂ
viding maximum comfort for the
animals while holding visual barriers

' to a minimum for the 4 million people
' who come to the zoo each year.

, BUT THESE habitats, in the works
for the last three years, express
something far more than that.

They signify nothing less than a
dramatic revolution taking place in
the nation’s zoos.

“Twenty-five years ago,” Meritt
says, sitting in his glass-paneled office
on land where the kiddie train once
chugged, “zoo policy was to be a
catalogue of all the animals you could
get. We dubbed this postage stamp
animal collecting.”

Back in those days, Lincoln Park

. like all zoos, thought nothing of cram‘ ‘

ming animals into confining cages
without much consideration for orga-'
nization. Thus you might have an
elephant next to a condor next to a
giraffe next to a polar hear. The

‘ animals had nothing to do. They just

paced or stared, mute, dull specimens
that bore little relation to their
brothers in the wild.

Today, zoos have a mission. With ‘

the world in an advanced stage of

ecological collapse, with the sprawl of
man robbing animals of even their
most remote refuges, it has fallen to
zoos to become .preservers of the long,
sad list of vanishing species. ‘_

“We have a conservation commit-
ment, ” Meritt says.

What that means in practice is, you
no longer have every animal there is.
You concentrate on a few, especially
those that are most endangered. You

study their habits closely, make stren- .

uous efforts to breed them in captai-
ity, and perhaps someday, when the
time is right, they can be reintroduced
to the wild.
In essence, you are trading a
menagerie for an ark.

THE ROSTER of animals destined
ifor Lincoln Park’s new hooved animal

Continued on following page

I

' {I » tribune photo by ‘Saily'Ge;
Zebras congregate on a foggy day in a portion of the new hooved animal habitat at Lincoln Park Zoc

 




 

Zoos are changing their spots and make strides to save the wild animals

Continued from first Tempo page

area illustrates this new commitment.

It is short and select and includes the following
creatures, some great, none small:

The American bison; the Bactrian camel; the
gravy zebra; the Arabian oryx; Grant’s gazelle;
the addra gazelle; and the greater kudu.

Similarly, the large mammal area, when
finished, will house just the following:

The African elephant, Indian elephant, black
rhino, tapir, hippopotamus, polar bear, spectacled
bear, giraffe, maned wolf and timber wolf.

The penguin and sea bird house, a roomy,
elaborate structure, was built to accommodate

 

Paltems in black and white; More photos from
the zoo are on the Focus page. .

 

just-three speciesi the rock hopper and gentoo
penguins, and the Atlantic puffin.
Most,ifnotalloftheseanlmalsareserlously
endangered. In a few cases, the Arabian oryx and
addra gazelle for example, they don’t exist outside

ofzoos.

“Extermination, population pressure, changes
in land use, all of these things are eating into
these animal groups,” says Meritt. “Yet it is
difficult, if not impossible to change the policies of
the developing nations. We in the 0.8. are the
worst example to be telling anyone else about
conservation and land use, considering what we
did to the bison.

“Yet the changes in Africa since I was there in
1969 are scary. The. zebra has become critically
endangered. In our lifetime, they used to migrate
in herds of tens of thousands. Today it’s not even
common to see a group of 30 or 40.”

$908 THROUGHOUT the world have engaged
the new cooperation to save these animals,
clearing with one another the species they will
concentrate on so there is little duplication. Not so
incidentally, the 2003 can save money this way,
.too, in a time of flagging revenues and soaring
costs.

“We no longer feel we have to be comprehen-
sive,” says Meritt. “We don't, for example, feel
we owe it to the public to have Emperor penguins

. or 20 different kinds of antelope. People will have
to understand that zoos must become different,
not just fun places, but places of conservation.

; We’ve made our decisions on what animals to

(

 

‘ I“ l lune photo bebally
The old look at the 200: While others run
free, a snow leopard remains behind bars.

stock based on what's available at nearby zoos.
1What we don’t have, Brookfield has or Milwaukee
as.

“Then, too, you can no longer think of animals
Without thinking of them in natural surroundings,
an environment. That‘s what we’re trying to do,‘
and get away from the early 20th—Century
menagerie approach.

“If we can convey this decision-making to the
younger generation, this respect fin:- life and the
quality of life.” says Meritt, “then the world will
he a better place to live. And all you have to do is.

Sick up a newspaper to know we need shine of
a .99

The new animal areas at the zoo represent the
state of the art in animal habitat design.

Large open areas let the animals move about
freely to browse, run, preen or mate at will. The
barriers between them and the viewing public are
minimal, in some cases nothing more than a moat
and a split rail fence.

THE HOOVED animal area is a wheetshaped
series of environments partitioned from one anoth
er by natural-looking rock. The animals will be

' grouped according to compatibility.

They will walk on a surface of crushed granite,
useful both because it keeps hooves from overfor-
ming and because it drains waste well. [Much of
the habitat’s expense went into an underground
sewage system to keep contamination from the
surrounding land and lake.) There will be trees,
but they will be surrounded with wooden bumpers
to prevent the animals from nibbling the bark.

At the hub of the wheel is a modern, two-tiered
animal house where the animals will dwell in
spacious, energy-saving stalls.

The house has two unique features Outside it _
beasts two elevated walkways, from which specta-
tors can lean over and practically touch the
animals below. Indoors, the viewing area is on the
second-floor, enabling people to look down on the
animals for a novel perspective. The animals are
behind one-way glass so they can’t see you.

How effective this one-way glass is became
clear when a male antelope began spooaing with a
female in one of the stalls, which won’t happen if
they know you’re there.

“Look," said Meritt, “he’s flaming." The male
was pulling his lips back in a grotesque grin.
iiieritt explained that this behavior precedes ma-

mg. ,
We waited, watching. “Well?" the visitor said.
“Well, what?” said Meritt.

“When do they mate?” asked the visitor. “In
about two days,” Meritt replied. They believe in a
lot of foreplay, he said.

OF THE ANIMALS scheduled for the new
hooved animal area, only two, the greater kudu
and Grant’s gazelle, were already owned by the
zoo. Everything else had to be acquired.

The Arabian oryx and addra gazelles came from
the San Diego Zoo. Noah, the Bactrian camel,
came from Minneapolis. The gravy zebras are
from Milwaukee, San Diego, Arkansas and

Tampa. The zebra population includes a male and
four females, two of whom are pregnant and
should add to the herd by the end of summer.

“The significant thing,” Meritt says, “is that all
our new animals are themselves Captive—born.
This illustrates how much success zoos have been
having in captive breeding. And it also shows that
zoos are not a drain on wildlife and haven’t been

‘for years. We’ve gotten a bum rap. In reality, we
are great wildlife producers."

The old Osa Johnson, Frank Buck days of
“bring ‘em back alive” are long gone, Meritt said.

The bison, he said, are-coming frame-
politan Sanitary District. ,

The Metropolitan Sanitary District?

“Yes,” he said. “From their Fulton County
experimental prairie project. They have a herd of
bison down there and approved a gift to us of a
male and two females.”

THE LARGE mammal area also must be
stocked with animals from outside. For a number
of years the zoo has been without a giraffe, and it
has never owned a rhino. .

Animals do not come cheap, it should be noted.
A giraffe sells for anywhere between $8,000 and
$10,000. A black rhino is $25,000. “Among the most
expensive things you can buy is a lowland gorilla.
You’re looking at in excess of $100,000,” said
Meritt. “The cheapest might be some of the small
South American rodents. They’re $100 or less.”

He conducted a tour of the large mammal area,
which is still in construction. But enough could be
seen to appreciate what will be an outstanding
exhibit when it’s open.

The visitor will encounter a wooded area with

rocky caves where the wolves will dwell. It will be
called, apprOpriately enough, Wolf Woods. At the

- other end will be the world’s largest polar bear

pool, which will contain a quarter million gallons
of water and will permit underwater viewing of
the bears swimming.

Remarkable in all the new habitats is the feeling
that there are no barriers between you and the
animals.

For the antelope and other hooved animals, a
small, 10-foot moat and an inwardly-angled Rot-

' t‘erdam fence will suffice.

“YOu don't need much of a barrier to contain‘ an
animal if you provide it with the food and shelter
it needs," Meritt said. “You can get away with
minimal psychological barriers. Of course, with
an antelope, there is always the danger of a leap if
he’s startled. You have to make sure he has a
place to retreat to if he’s scared. Otherwise, a
greater kudu, from just standing here with us,
could easily, bip, jump a 10foot fence.” ‘

WHAT ABOUT. say, a tiger? How do they know
how big to make a moat for him?

“Well, a tiger is different,” said Meritt. “With
predators, you have to have bi~i7i~g meats. With a
tiger, it has to be 28 feet across. This is a known
distance. Somewhere, someone has researched
this and we know that tigers, even under extreme
stress, can’t jump 28 feet.

“On the other hand, the moat has to be 35 feet
deep because the vertical jumping ability is
greater than for horizontal. We’ve had snow
leopards jump 20 feet high from just a standing
start right here on the floor.

“That sounds difficult to fathom, I know, when I
can only jump three feet off the ground. But it‘s
true.”

Breeders study plants that. kill plants

ASHINGTON—Plant breeders
someday may be able to use plants to
poison other plants to enhance weed
control.

Researchers at the United States Department of
Agriculture say they may be able to use the
trait-allelopathym—to poison neighboring plants
with toxic secretions. For example, scientists have
learned that developed varieties of sunflowers are
more allelopathic than their wild relatives. Studies

  

show sunflower plant extracts knock out 50 to 75
percent of such hardsto-treat weeds as Johnson
grass, ragweed and wild mustard. Other
allelopathic plants include oats, walnut trees, corn
and some varieties of cherry and cucumber.

Allelopathy is influenced by climate, but scien-
tists still are puzzled as to why certain plants are
susceptible to the secretions.

' United Pres-a international

 




United States Animal and Federal Bldg.
Department of Plant Health Hyattsville, MD 20782
Agriculture Inspection Service

June 7, 1982

Mrs. J. C. Yarbrough
3149 King Arthur Court, NE
Atlanta, GA 30345

Dear Mrs. Yarbrough:

This is in response to your recent letter to Secretary Block concerning
animal welfare funding.

The U.S. Department of Agriculture shares your concern for the welfare of
animals and does not intend to abandon its proper Federal responsibilities in
this area. We have heard from many people such as you who have also expressed
their concern about the animal welfare program. While we believe that more
responsibility for animal welfare should rest with the States, industry groups,
humane societies, and individuals, we will continue doing what we can to assure
the humane care and treatment of animals. It is our intent to continue working
with these groups to provide whatever assistance we can in this important
endeavor.

The Department finds that the majority of people involved with animals provide
proper care and facilities. There are, of course, still some individuals who
do not do this. Therefore, continued Federal funding will be aimed at
increasing the level of complaint investigation and prosecution efforts. We
believe these priorities will furnish the best opportunity to use available
funding to the best advantage of the Department and thereby, to the best
advantage of the covered animals.

Thank you for corresponding with us and for your concern for the welfare of
animals.

Sincerely,

W. F. Helms

',/‘\‘

ﬁw‘Director
" National Program Planning Staffs
Veterinary Services

 




MARK o. HATFIELD. OREG.. CHAIRMAN
TED sTEvsus. ALAsKA WILLIAM PROXMIRE, WIS.
LOWELL r. WEICKER. JR.. CONN. JOHN c. STENNIs. MIss.

JAMES A. MC CLURE. IDAHO ROBERT C. BYRD, W. VA.
PAUL LAXALT. NEV. DANIEL K. INOUYE. HAWAII

JAKE GARN, UTAH ERNEST F. HOLLINGS. s.c. ’

HARRISON SCHMITT. N. MEX. THOMAS P. EAGLETON MO. ,J 0’ I f h {ai Ag 1 Edi
THAD COCHRAN. MIss. LAw'rON CHILES. FLA: t e cg e 9
MARK ANDREWS. N. DAK. J. BENNETT JOHNSTON, LA.

JAMEs ABONOR. s. OAK. WALTER D. HUOOLESTON. KY. COMM! 1 '55 ON APPROPR'AT'ONS

ROBERT w. KASTEN. JR.. ms. QUENTIN N. BURDICK. N. OAK. '

ALFONSE M. n-AMATO. N.Y. PATRICK J. LEAHY VT. WASH'NGTON D C 20510

MACK MATTINGLY. OA. JIM SASSER. TENN. ' . .

WARREN RUDMAN. N.I-I. OENNIs DE OONOINI. Amz.

ARLEN SPECTER. PA. DALE BUMPERS, ARK.

J. KEITH KENNEDY, STAFF DIRECTOR
THOMAS L. VAN DER VOORT. MINORITY STAFF DIRECTOR

Mrs. J. C. Yarbrough
3149 King Arthur Court, N.E.
Atlanta, Georgia 30345

Dear Mrs. Yarbrough:

Thank you for your recent letter concerning the Endangered
Species Act.

Senate bill 2309, the Endangered Species Act Amendments of
1982, would authorize funds for fiscal year 1983. Hearings were
held on the Act in the Subcommittee on Environmental Pollution of
the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works in April and
early May. On May 11, 1982 the bill was reported favorably out
of the full committee. A Senate vote is expected this summer.

I share your concern about effective, balanced protection
for endangered and threatened species of wildlife. I will
carefully study the report and recommendations made by the Senate
Committee on Environment and Public Works.

Again, thank you for contacting me. If I may be of service
to you in the future, please do not hesitate to call upon me.

Sincerely,

Mu! Mag-7!

Mack Mattingly

 




Helping a Guide
Dog NEW YORK TIMES MAGAZINE - May 30, 1982f

Once there was a blind man
living on welfare whose guide
dog, Shep, had her daily food
allotment revoked during an
earlier wave of budget econo-
mies by government officials.
This was done on the state
level, a decade before there
was a President Reagan or a
safety net, and one can only
imagine the grand uproar
and the swift recovery, com-
plete with paw-shaking photo
opportunities, if this or any
President had ever taken the
food from a seeing-eye dog
named Shep.

But the voluntarism in-
voked lately by President
Reagan existed back then,
old as the milk of human
kindness, and no one had to
resort to public-relations
prodding to get dozens of peo-
ple to step forward and hap-
pily dispense charity in the
form of dog food by the can
and by the caseload and thou-
sands of dollars in personal
checks, many made out to
“Shep.”

As the reporter of a story
; describing this odd situation,
so near to the man-bites-dog
criterion, I had to negotiate
the checks for Shep and
deliver a dog-food cornucopia
' that continued for months.
This was my first large-scale
experience with voluntarism,
aside from a childhood dere-
liction. As a generous boy, I
had first delivered my tin alli-
gator to a huge pile of donated
metal toys amassed with
great show for a World War II
scrap drive; then, skulking
back after dark, I had re-

 

Francis X. Clines is a re-
porter for The Times ’5 Wash-
ington bureau. Russell
Baker, the Sunday Observer,
is on vacation.

 

trieved an even better metal
toy left by an even more char-
itable little boy. At that early
point, I was culpably self-
taught in the excesses of
voluntarism. But it was not
until years later, in publiciz-
ing and having to broker
Shep’s plight, that I truly
realized how careful one must
be in appealing to the human
heart.

For the dog was part of a
larger story about a variety
of cutbacks and sufferings in-
tensified. The story also fea-
tured an impoverished ghetto
woman with four young chil-
dren. She was a mother who
was forced by the perverse
“tightening” of welfare
standards to give up her
trainee’s job, the first of her
life, and return full time to
the welfare dole in the name
of taxpayer economizing. She
was heartbroken and articu-
late about this. Photos were
included. From one, welfare
offspring stared forth care-
worn. From another, the
noble Shep’s eyes glistened
tender as the night.

The story made not the
slightest plea or hint for any-
thing more generous than at
tention, but letters soon were
volunteered, and kind words
and money for Shep tumbled
forth. The finest and most
humble of stationery carried
confessions of tears shed for
Shep, of memories of readers’
own beloved pets, of the need
for people to be more caring.
Generous checks were at-
tached, scores of them, some
in excess of $100, even $200.
Before long, three big batches
of correspondence had to be
tended along with a mush-
rooming account of donaa
tions. People were volunteer-
ing their emotions, their

 

money, even their labor as
some journeyed to Harlem to
deliver the dog food person-
ally to the housing project
where Shep and her master
lived.

Eventually, I had to be ap-
palled, for although the dog
was attracting thousands of
dollars in charity, the poor
woman and her children were
drawing nothing. A few letter
writers, in staking Shep to a
feed, complained about the
public burden of the woman’s
irresponsible pregnancies;
one, weighing the relative
outrages of this life, even sug-
gested she be sterilized. By
the time this nightmare of
voluntarism had ended, a few
souls -- fewer than a dozen
out of the several hundred
who sent money — included
donations for the needy chil-
dren as well as the dog. By
then I was sick of the story, of
the trips to the project to
deliver checks made out to a
dog, of the uncharted wastes
of the human heart, of the
democratic Conceit of welfare
itself.

A final story could have
been written, but was not -— a
story that ends with the blind
man remembering to ask
about the woman and the chil-
dren who shared the story
with Shep.

“Is she getting money like
this?” the blind man had
asked. When informed, he
looked embarrassed. He
began insisting that some of
Shep’s money go to the poor
family. Shep sat at his feet as
he fumbled through a wad of
checks and cash. He volun-
teered charity, and if any cur-
rent readers think this ending
to the story is heartwarming,
keep it to yourselves. I

 




 

 

Helpless Animals Mutilated in Cruel I Rituals

Hundreds of animals are being slaughtered,
horribly mutilated and skinned by vicious, sick
cults that may be connected to a nightmarish
black market dealing in the hides of house pets.

And police fear that humans may be

their next victims.

In recent months the grisly remains of
over 150 dogs and cats have been found
dumped like garbage along roadsides in Ari-

zona and California.

Stunned officials reveal the crazed cult
members may even be skinning their helpless
victims alive, and then wearing the animals’
skins during their bizarre rites.

Even horses are falling prey to the blood-

thirsty ghouls.

“It’s being done by crazy, deranged peo-
ple," said Diane Kincaid, investigator for the
Arizona Society for the Prevention of Cruelty

to Animals.

“The dogs involved were cared-for house
including Dobermans,
shepherds, greyhounds, collies and dalma-
tians. Most were skinned and mutilated,

pets I —

thrown away like garbage.”

In many cases the nau-
seating remains were found
stuffed into plastic bags, their
legs trussed with coat hang-
ers or barbed wire.

“It’s a horrible situation,”
said Detective Al Weiss of
the Maricopa County (Ariz.)
Sheriff's Office. “They are
skinning them and beheading
them and taking the legs off.
Some are both skinned and
gutted.

“We have spoken to experts
on the occult, who have told
us that it may involve human
sacrifice down the road. Nine
detectives are working on the
case.

“We are treating it as a ma-
jor felony investigation.”

At one slaughter site Weiss
investigated. one of the nine
dogs killed was hanging from
a tree. hind legs tied.

Nearby. on the ground were
12 pages from a desk calen-
dar, each bearing names of
ancient gods and mysterious
occult symbols.

“The dog was hanging in

German ‘ 4 .‘

V...

 

 

such a way that its blood
dripped down onto the pieces
of paper. It was like an altar
for a weird ceremony of Devil
worshipers.”

Weiss said the police are in-
vestigating cults known for
animal sacrifice in their wor-
ship services.

“We have information that
the people actually wear the
hides during the ceremonies,
to take on the personality of
the animal.

“The cults skin the animals
to make garments —- and
may be selling the skins after
their ceremonies.

“There is a big market for
dog skins,'especially Dober-
mans. They make Doberman

 

coats in Mexico."

There was even ghastly;
evidence that the animals are
being skinned alive.

The pet dog of Phoenix area
resident Sarah Baird was
found by a neighbor about a
half—mile from home in hor-l
rible condition slashed!

, from its throat to its belly. “It 5

.K' 1:

.. id.
’\ " 'l

.4

TRUE HORROR: Horses' legs strewn about are examined by humane society official.

looked as though he was
about to be skinned," she
said. “I was sure he would
have had internal injuries,
but the veterinarian was able
to pull him through.

“It must have been the pet
killers. Now I’m scared to let
him outside.”

Investigators also made
another sickening find recent-
ly: 36 amputated horse legs
set in the pattern of a peace
symbol —— a circle with a “Y”
in the middle.

“They are from nine dif-
ferent horses, but we never
found the rest of the horses’
bodies,” said Dale Dunning of
the Arizona Humane Society.

Besides house pets and
horses, countless opossum,

raccoon. pigeons and coyotes

 

 

   
  
         

  

n. , u .

skinned and mutilated dog
bodies.

“It’s like a terrible rerun,"
Kincaid said. “Here we go
again."

have been found slaughtered
in Arizona.

And" near San Diego, Calif,
more mutilated carcasses
have been found. .

“We’ve been told this is the
cult capital of the world,”
said San Diego County An-
imal Control spokesman Jeff
Swiney.

Arizona officials and ani-
mal lovers gave a sigh of re-
lief when the reign of terror,
seemed to end after March 8l
-— but the nightmare began,
all over again April 24, whené

 

— JOHN BLOSSER

there were two more finds of ,

2861 ‘I eunr - aaaIHONa TVNOILVN

 




Mrs. J. C. Yarbrough
3149 King Arthur Court, N. E.
Atlanta, Ga. 30345

July 5, 1982

Associate Director
Management and Operations
National Park Service
Department of the Interior
washington, D. C. 20240

Dear Sir:

This letter is in support of proposed National Park Service
Regulation 1.1 (b) (3). I understand this proposal was men—
tioned and published in the Federal Register on.March 17,
1982, which halt unauthorized trapping currently conducted
in 13 areas of the National Iark system.

It seems strange to me that National Parks, which were set
aside for the benefit and enjoyment of all citizens, should
allow trapping or hunting within their borders. I am com-
pletely opposed to either in our National Parks. These Parks
were set aside to protect the animalswithin their borders so
all citizens can enjoy not only the Parks but the wildlife.
Trapping to me is an abhorrent practice anyhow, but it must
not be allowed in our National Parks.

How can anyone equate the conservation of our National Parks
with trapping? This includes our National Recreation Areas,
Scenic Riverways, National Seashores, etc. Trapping has no
business in any of these areas. I don't believe hunting has
a place in.them.either, but trapping is such an inhumane way
to treat a living creature.

In establishing the National Park system units, Congress made
it clear that these areas were to be rotected and.preserved,
and that recreational uses had to be compatible. How can any—
one refer to "trapping" as recreational? The very word "re-
creational" refers to a recreation of the spiritfrom.visiting
these areas, and "death" has no place in any of them, except
that which is natural.

, Sincerely,
GWrs.J. C. Yarbrough)

cc: Henorable Sam Nunn, Mack Mattingly, Elliott B. Levitas,
G. wm. Whitehurst

 




Swan Song

The change is what they fear

by Vito Zdanys

it July 2. l979, Consolidated (ieorex Geophysies of

Denver applied to the (:5. Forest Servieetor a special
permit to explore 207 miles of the Bob Mars/tall wil-
derness eompley in northwest lllontanajor oil and gas. The
. ’ilie outery against drilling in the wilderness was inunediate
anti fieree. Montana C(ntgressman Pat ll’illiams elaims tlte

reee ~ot oft/tousands of letters demanding the preservation of

“the Bob, " deelaring that it is tlte Bob Marshall itself, and not
any amount ot'oil tltat may befound under it. that is the state's
most preeious resouree. The Forest Serviee also found ”over—
\\ tie/ming publie opposition" to both leasing and exploring.

. . Way (if/98]. while tlte Forest Serviee was ﬁnishing its
.8‘ll:’(l_“ of the proposal. a speeial Congressional eommittee
up, ..t d [lit [1 dt val Land Po/iey and Management Aet and
witltdrew the area from mineral leasing for three years. (This
three-year designation was not rattdom. It would neatly plaee
the Bob Marshall beyond the reach ofa eompromise clause in
the l964 Wilderness Aet, whielt sets [983 as the last yearfor
granting mineral leases in eon gressionally designated wilder-
ness areas.) James wan, Secretary of the Interior, unwilling
to ehallenge Congress in his first months in otﬁee, reluetantly
signed the order, but denouneed it.

The future of the Bob Marshall, however, is still uncertain.
The Mountain States Legal Foundation, Watt's previous
employer, and the Paeiﬁe States Legal Foundation — both pro—
development publie interest lawﬁrms speeializing in anti—
environmental pro/eels — ironieally, ﬁled lawsuits against the

PAC I F I C NORTHWEST. MAGAZ INE

April 1982

«14..

i
e
l
g
i
i
i.

Seet‘etary oft/1e Interior on the grounds that ”his" withdrawal
direetive is uiu'onstitutional. Witt, in the meantime, has indi-
eated a shiftfrom his original willingness to open wilderness
to wildeatters, saying he may propose prohibiting exploration
until the year 2000,“ but his motives and poliey still are not
elear. ln Montana the publie hopesfor the best and expects the
worst. In the Swan Valley. stretehingfor 80 miles along the
western edge of the Bob Marshall, where men in their 60s and
70s still paek up every suntmer just to see “all ofthe beautiful
country you'll ever need. " where the Bob Marshall has been
the eontext of life sinee the earliest memories of the oldest,
where they enter it for survival, slogging knee—deep through
winter-bound ereeks to get furs and meat, where it is referred
to simply, biblical/y as “the Wilderness” — in the Swan the
mixture of hope and regret is deep beyond saying.

he change is what they fear: they equate it with a new

kind of extinction. From Great Falls west. men sit in

quiet Montana bars listening to jukeboxes and breathing
camas and sweetgrass through open doors. As often as not they
talk about guns —— the gun that shot the grizzly that was right
across the fence from the kids, the gun that brought down the
elk from near a quarter mile away. the gun found down the riyer
a month after the boy from Polson disappeared. They talk and
smoke. rolling dice or tobacco plugs in their hands. And then.
with the stillness of nightfall coming like perfume through the
doors. they repeat a common wish here: to get James Watt in

 




their sights. just for a second.
Already people have begun shooting at helicopters from
their front porches.

he helicopters belong to companies looking for deposits

of oil and natural gas. and for over a year they have been

skirting the edges of one of the last intact and untouched
ecosystems remaining in the lower forty-eight—the Bob
Marshall wilderness complex. Straddling the Continental
Divide in northwestern Montana. the Bob Marshall divides
not only waters but climates. From the east it appears as a
hundred-mile-long cliff rising abruptly from a bracing expanse
of bone-bare plains that turn blue in June with ﬂowering camas
and then dry out in August to the color of elk hide. From the
west it is the last great rise in the series of mountains and
valleys beginning in eastern Washington. The climate on this
side of the Divide is Paciﬁc, with up to a hundred inches of
precipitation on its western slopes.

The view inwards from any peak on the wilderness perimeter
is to an unending chaos of tilted reefs and sheer rock jutting at
all angles. to deep canyons. big lakes. and fast rivers that are
just threads of sun-glare far below. to hanging meadows spotted
with stands of ﬁr and cut by ice—cold. ice—clear rivulets.
Aspen. birch and cottonwood grow along valley lakeshores.
surrounded by slopes covered with pine. spruce. ﬁr. cedar.
larch and hemlock. The timber. a deep. shining green unknown
to the east or south. grows to heights of 150 feet and more.
with some trunks so wide that the arms of four men can barely
stretch around them. In open meadows wildﬂowers crowd out
the grass. Feeding. mating. calving and dying below the reefs
is all of the wildlife. including two-thirds of the grizzlies re-
maining south of Canada. forced off of the plains and then out
of the western valleys by the still rolling wave of development.

The growth has surrounded the wilderness as though to lay
seige. To the west near Missoula and Kalispell. the new homes
of thousands of Californians and h’lidwesterners are going up;
in Missoula. subdivisions line the slopes Albuquerque-style.
Swan Lake to the north and Seeley Lake to the south are ringed
with motels and vacation homes. And across the mountains to
the east. the area near Choteau (the last place in the world
where grizzlies still roam the plains) has been tamed within a
year to oil wells. The Bob Marshall complex stands like an
is‘ “d amidst a sea of drilling and building.

n the middle of the Swan Valley lies Condon. a long road-

side line of small houses hidden and half-hidden in

timber. separated by grassy meadows called “prairies" and
attached to points deeper in the forest by short. generally
imr ..ssable dirt roads. Condon is unincorporated and does not
shm. v. the ofﬁcial highway map of the state. In the books its
populat~ m is an undifferentiated contribution to the totals of
Misxwia County The locals guess that there are maybe a
hundred of themselves. maybe more. strung out “like crows on
a telephone wire" along some 10 or 12 miles of State Route 83.
strung out nearly a hundred miles in any direction from any—
where else. Those who can afford it buy winter homes in
Arizona; in the Swan the dark middays when cars up the road
are visible only because of their headlights. the snow. the tem-
peratures. and the isolation can afﬁict the spirit like a verdict of
exile Most of the people are either old or young. with few in
middle—age — retired trappers. ranchers. outﬁtters. foresters.
wranglers and camp cooks here for the duration. and dropped-

 

Vilo Zdanys is a writer who lives in Missoula, Montana.

out graduates making a living any way they can for a year or
two before moving on to more forgiving environments. Until
the last national election the big worry in Condon was the new
actor‘s house near Salmon Prairie. a big recessed mansion
with a swimming pool and tennis courts. To locals it was a
foreshadowing of the kind of onslaught of high society that has
occurred in Ennis and Livingston. a sign that the neighbor-
hood was going all to hell. As Vernal (cleaning the Skoal out
of his lip with a ﬁnger) put it. “I never heard 0’ anyone who
understands this kind 0' country playin‘ tennis.“

North of center is the Forest Service station and the airport.
3 “prairie" left unimproved except for an orange wind gauge.
South are the school and the log yard with its ﬁnished log
house on display. Nearer the heart of town is Liquid Louie‘s.
serving the best in available spirits since 1946 in the kind
of bar—plank ﬂoor. pool table. jukebox. and Oly clock
with a running waterfall — common from the Michigan woods
out to rural Oregon.

In terms of communal life as well as location the center of
Condon is the Swan Centre Cafe. its inside walls covered with
Watt-recall petitions. newspapers detailing the steps of the
controversy. and “Save the Bob Marshall" T-shirts. A con-
verted trailer home with ﬁve tables at one end and a counter
with l0 stools at the other. the cafe is so narrow that a customer
on a stool can sit back and lean against the wall. Behind the
counter are the appliances. except for the grill the same ones
that would be found in a residential kitchen— microwave.
four-bumer electric range. old Kelvinator from the Eisenhower
era stuffed with store-bought half-gallons of milk and ice
cream and Saran-wrapped bowls of vegetables. The cooking is
home-style in the strictest sense. even down to the size of the
pots and pans. Jean. 21. a California refugee. is often waitress.
cook. dishwasher and cashier. hurrying back and forth with the
concentration of a fencer. sweat sticking to her lip in beads
and plastering strands of long auburn hair to her temples.
Atop the pie cases are her books —the I Ching. Appaloosa
Rising. and well—worn copies of The Basic Jung and The
Portable Chekhov.

Every day everyone for 15 miles up and down the road runs

into everyone else at the Swan Centre Cafe. Pleasure and
politics are gone over daily. as well as the valleys brand of
religion. one given to slow celebration rather than a searching
out of sins. Hopelessly entangled in it is the Bob Marshall. a
symbol. as the old men at the counter tell it. of life‘s uncount-
able hidden pockets of joy. things far deeper than words or
numbers. of precisely what Jesus came down to save. Bud
Moore knew Bob Marshall himself (“rich fella from New York.
real tall and kinda goggle-eyed"). At 62 Bud still traps in the
winter and packs the mule up in the summer for treks of days
just to see it again and again. He quotes the Bible right and left
when he talks about the wilderness. quotes it. eyes shining. to
praise as though the Bob Marshall were an Old Testament
bride. and to defend as though it were a mythical Palestine.
Those people in the cities. says Bud. don‘t really understand
what‘s at stake.

“I‘ll tell you what.“ says Norm. another cafe regular. “The
log yard is closed down and half the people in the valley are out
of work. The single guys volunteered to get laid off so the guys
with families could still feed ‘em. They're all gone now. and
they‘re all guys who wanted to be here bad like l do. But I'll
tell you what — if that seismic bunch came up here and offered
everybody $20 an hour to go up and blast in the wilderness.
there ain't a man who would do it. If James Watt says this
seismic bunch is for our own good. well then we don‘t want

April /982 ° Pacific Northwest l9

 




our own good. And the hell with James Watt." Norm pauses
and looks down at something he is rolling with the toe of his
boot. His hands and shirt are streaked with oil. a smudge of it
blackening the tip of his nose. Blushing slightly. as though
conscious of being laughable, he says softly. “Man does not
live by bread alone.”

etween lunch and dinner the place is empty except

for Butch, who stays through the afternoon drinking

cup after cup of coffee and thinking. breaking into a
sentence or a fragment of one now and then like a dreamer.
If someone else sits down at the counter Butch may talk out
loud, but the rhythm is still dreamlike. full of secret and
tangential thoughts that surface and disappear like ﬁsh in deep
pools. As he sits he squints at the wall ahead, hands wrapped
around the coffee cup.

He was born in the Swan. and his life revolves around two
places—the Bob Marshall. where he traps furs for a living.
and Lewistown. in the middle of Montana under the blue sky
and the Big Snowy Mountains. where he celebrates the forgot-
ten art of his trade. For several years he has been on the
planning committee of the Lewistown Rendezvous. an echo of
Wyoming‘s Green River Rendezvous of 1825 through l8~10 that
was the great single social event of the old fur trapper‘s year.
a wild, Oaudy affair full of squaws. skill contests. snakehead
whiskey. horse races. and a routine contempt for all Ten Com-
mandments. In 1835 Kit Carson rode his horse up to a drunk.
violent giant of a trapper named Shunar. calmly put a bullet
through his head. and rode away a hero. ln 198l the pleasures
are more sociable. and the event is a serious comparison of
occupational skills.

The literature of trapping is perhaps the most consistently
nostalgic that there is. full. as early as the 1840s. of a be-
wildered regret over lost wonderlands. habitats of intense
hardship. beauty. and freedom taken away in the twinkling of
an eye by the left hand of civilization. gone so fast that men
resigned to shopkeeping spend their last years wondering if it
was all just a wild dream of strange perfection. The nostalgia
for the old beauty of tamed chunks of country is a continuing
theme of life in the Rockies. a deeply rooted part of the sub-
conscious of the West. burrowing in the hearts of even devel-
opers, surfacing most often in complaints— once the checks
for the new ranchettes are safely in the till — about all of the
Californians crowding in and scaring away the elk. ln Butch it
is a vein that runs especially deep. visible in eyes that stare with
a combination of stubbornness and irony. and dare you to
understand.

In the winter Butch labors along his traplines up in the Bob
Marshall, bulling his way through miles of powder with legs
forced wide by the snowshoes. It is days on end of solitude
with the freezing and thirst, with the gray on gray of straight.
dark timber against the sky. the blindness of sun-ﬁred or
wind-blown snow. the silence broken only by the creak of bark
against bark and the sudden ﬁutter of wings. Occasionally he
digs out against a bank or a trunk to sit out the weather; occa—
sionally he reaches a trap only to ﬁnd a stiff blood-black paw.

In the cafe he sits staring at the wall, and what he says shows
that what he sees is still the great sheets of snow blowing
soundlessly into the sky. still the receding waves of forest black
and snow-tipped like a bear—coat.

“Yeah that 01’ Canadian link," he says, “he‘s quite an animal
all right. Link. . .ol‘ link. He’s on the increase, you know. ”

You can tell a lynx print from a bobcat because the lynx‘s is
as big as an elephant’s, nearly. “But funny thing is for all them

20 Paciﬁc Northwest 0 April 1982

big snowshoe paws there ain't no webbin‘ in them toes. Must
be all that hair mattin‘ down does the same trick."

When the talk stops there is no way to know what he is
thinking about. It is as though everything he has ever seen is
spread out along the surface of memory. as vivid as the cup in
his hands. and he goes leisurely. tirelessly from image to image.

“Yeah. I've got down to where I can skin a coyote in seven
minutes. But 1 can't do no better than that no way. Hell. last
year in Lewistown I seen this guy was no more‘n 25 an~ he
skinned a coyote in two minutes an~ forty seconds an' his Dad
was standin‘ there hollerin‘ at ’im for bein‘ so damn slow. . . "

Ol' wolverine. he ain‘t mean at all. Butch has run into lots
of them. and they never breathed ﬁre and hit his head off.
not once. Instead they ducked out of the way just like
they was scared.

“They‘re hell to hold on to. though." Butch says thought-
fully. “just hell.

“See 01' wolverine. when he gets caught in that trap he don't
lunge away from it like any other animal would do. No. sir. I
can read it in the snow just as plain as day what he does: He
rolls over on ‘is back an' ﬁghts that trap like it was alive. See
that trap‘s on ~is front foot. an’ 01‘ wolverine he gets on his
back with the trap above ‘im an“ he starts pushin‘ off with ‘is
hind feet. Well. sooner or later them hind legs starts pushin‘ on
the spring. an‘ sooner or later while he's thrashin‘ around down
there the spring gives an‘ the foot comes slippin‘ out an‘ 01‘
wolverine. he‘s free. They‘re easy as hell to catch. but then
you keep one."

Butch talks quietly and steadily without end. He talks
about who's paying for the pelts. and about how for years the
money‘s been in rats— muskrats. He talks about the different
animals. about what they like and how they think and what
they‘re doing when you can't see them. You can smell a bear
sometimes before you can see him. he says. and sometimes the
bear will run away from you and sometimes he‘ll run over you
and then sometimes he'll run you down and rip your head off.
“Hell. I know a guy ran into a boar griz that wanted to play
with 'im — kept runnin‘ around ~im wagging‘ ‘is head just like
a dog that‘s glad to see you."

Now and then Butch is quiet for 10 or 15 minutes at a time.
staring at the wall. sitting back suddenly as though just realiz—
ing something. staring down at the coUnter with his head
bowed as though trying hard to remember. When he speaks
again it is sudden. without preface:

“I been up so high some winters the whole world just looked
like a big frozen ocean. I‘ve got to where I thought maybe you
can‘t come back no more. 1 been scared sometimes. Just for
nothin‘. Just for bein‘ so far out when everything‘s just snow
and that heavy steel-colored sky and there ain‘t a sound or a
sign in the whole world.

“But then I dream about them times later. how strange they
are. like nothin' else. Sometimes I dream that I‘m sweatin’ up
some damn ridge pullin‘ up on alders an‘ whatnot an‘ sweatin‘
an‘ all of a sudden I hear this girl singin‘. So I look all around
below on both sides an‘ I can‘t ﬁnd ‘er nowhere. Then she keeps
singin‘ like she was bom there all by ‘erself an” never been out.
an‘ I keep lookin‘ and lookin' an‘ suddenly I come to myself.
like right in the dream an‘ there ain‘t nothin‘ but snow an' sky
an’ maybe some crazy elk makirf tracks below the ridge. . . .

"lt‘ll ruin the game for sure. . . . There ain‘t no way to drill
up there without destroyin~ the whole damn place — no way.
All you got to do to see that is to just go up there an‘ look at it.
if you know a damn thing about country. . . .

“That Watt, they had to turn over a lot of rocks before they

 




 

The \‘ien'from Prairie Ree/1' stradd/ing I/ze Continental Divide. the Bob Marshall wilderness encompasses 1,009,000 acres.

 

found one like him. He wasn‘t bought by the oil companies.
Hell. no. He was born that way.

“Course it won't happen." Butch says suddenly. “There
won‘t be a single hole drilled up there. an‘ there won‘t be a
single tree cleared for no road. either. not in my lifetime.

“You see. 1 got no intention of allowin‘ it. . "

he lights are on in the cafe. A pickup cruises slowly

down the road ploughing dust. Through the tape deck a

cowboy yodels “Here I am. drunk again." the song
fading endlessly in the twilight.

Jean sits at the counter drinking coffee. Her voice is barely
audible. and she hurries through her words as though there is a
risk in them. as though half-hoping that they won‘t be heard.
Often she trails off without ﬁnishing. looking down or away
through the window as she ﬂushes. the eyes both luminous and
troubled as though she is hanging helplessly between the an-
[lLlDathH of a joy and the likelihood of its repression.

‘ ”rm followed Paula out here. she says. and now he
woult’ it leave even if she did.

\prat brought Paula?

Cynthia — Cynthia brought her at night once and then Paula
woke up and opened her eyes and said here I am — I‘m not
going back, no way.

On the stool next to Jean is a pile of old newspapers headed
for the bin. A big photograph in the one on top shows a man in
a train holding a woman‘s arms through the open window. The
woman's face is not in the picture; the man's is convulsed in
sobs. The caption explains that an order was signed in Wash-
ington deporting lranian students.

Jean keeps staring at the picture. “Bastards.“ she says.
“bastards. . .just like here."

Then she tries to explain how it‘s just like here. It boils down

to what‘s real —-the paper on the desk in Washington. the
power as facile as the pulling of a trigger or the twisted face
and the arms almost breaking in tension as they just hold on.
Like Butch talking in pieces that never say it fully and then
thinking it hasn't been said. like Norm turning away with the
awareness that he could be laughed at. she struggles to explain
that it‘s a question of an ofﬁcial reality that can be brought out
like the graphs in an aspirin commercial and the hidden self of
that reality. the place where people live and ﬁnd meaning. And
as with Butch it can be read in her face as much as it can be
heard in her words. -

Jung lies open. face—down, next to the coffee cup. Jean goes
on. halting and despairing. to try to say that the wilderness is
the thing like the love of the man on the train. the reality that
can‘t be put on paper. “They " acknowledged it for a while even
if they didn’t understand it. And now. just like that love. they
were trying to take it away.

She has a favorite story that‘s about a love affair. It‘s the only
thing she ever underlined in a book without having to. She has
the book under the counter. She reaches over and around and
feels with her hand and pulls out Chekhov. She had to read it in
school but then she liked it so much she bought one. She ﬂips
the pages and turns back a few and says “Here — it's about a
place that‘s just got to be just like the wildemess: ‘And in this
constancy. in this complete indifference to the life and death of
each one of us. there is perhaps hidden the guarantee of our
eternal salvation‘. . .

“That‘s just how it is. isn‘t it? I mean. isn‘t that just how
it is‘?. .

Norm quit his job. He came here from Connecticut after
Paula. all this way to look for her. . ..

Me. . .I drove through this valley once. 1 saw these trees.
these mountains. . .just once. That‘s all it took. a

.4er 1982 - Ptlt‘f/It' .N'orI/iwcsr 21

 




 

 

Wildcatters Take On
the Wilderness

he very thought of heavy drilling equipment pounding

away in Washington’s pristine Alpine Lakes Wilder-

ness has been enough to rally Northwest environmen—
talists in an effort to halt the issuing of oil and gas exploration
leases in the region’s wilderness areas. To date, 10 lease
applications by out-of—state oil and gas speculators, covering
about 50,000 of the Alpine Lakes’ 393,000 acres (including
the Enchantment Lakes plateau) have been ﬁled with the US.
Forest Service’s Region VI ofﬁce in Portland. This is but one
case in a rash of lease applications that have been ﬁled in the
80 million acres of wilderness preserves around the country.
Mineral exploration leases have been recommended for ap-
proval in parts of Califomia’s Ventana and Santa Lucia wil-
dernesses, in Wyoming’s Washakie Wilderness and in New
Mexico’s Capitan Mountains Wilderness.

A favorable political climate, improved exploration
technology, and the 1964 Wilderness Act are the primary rea-
sons behind increased interest in mineral exploration on wil-
derness lands. A compromise clause in the 1964 Wilderness
Act permits mineral leasing in wilderness areas through
December 31, 1983, and industry is working to get in its
claims before the deadline. Although interior secretaries in
the past have generally ignored the energy potential of wil-
derness areas, Interior Secretary James Watt has indicated
his willingness to open wilderness to wildcat exploration.
Secretary Watt, in part because of the public outcry opposing
lease applications, has said he may propose legislation pro-
hibiting exploration until the year 2000. Environmentalists,
however, remain leery of Watt’s motives.

1n the meantime, applications continue to pile up on
government desks. Because the Forest Service manages
wilderness areas, that agency processes the applications and
conducts the study of the environmental consequences of the
proposed leases (as in the case of the Alpine Lakes lease ap—
j"ieations). The Forest Service then makes a recommendation
to the Interior Department, the agency with jurisdiction over
energy and mineral development on federal lands. According
to Carlin Jackson, director of lands and minerals for the For—
est Service’s Region VI, so far they have approximately 90 oil
and gas lease applications in wilderness areas or recom-
mended wilderness areas throughout Washington and Oregon
for .. total of 250,000 acres: 50,000 acres in the Alpine Lakes
Wilde 'ness; 140,000 acres in the Wenaha-Tucannon Wilder-
nesz. in the Umatilla National Forest; 12,000 acres in the rec-
ommended Colonel Bob Wilderness southeast of Quinault on
the Olympic Peninsula, and a smattering of others. Jackson
added that there have been nearly 2,000 lease applications on
national forest lands in Washington and Oregon, which the
Forest Service also oversees. “We are determining how to
assess these wilderness areas under the National Environ-
mental Policy Act,” said Jackson, “and will weigh carefully
the energy potential of each area versus its scenic and recrea—
tion value.” Jackson pointed out that the increased interest in
Washington and Oregon lands by mineral exploration com-
panies is a relatively recent development. “The Shell Oil
Company’s substantial investment in oil exploration in the

Robylri'llmks ' i

The Enchantments: The next casualty?

 

 

Yakima area appears to have prompted the curiosity of
others,” said Jackson.

The leasing activity in Montana and northern Idaho is even
more fervent. The Forest Service’s Region 1, which includes
northern Idaho, Montana and parts of South Dakota and
North Dakota, has approximately 700 lease applications in
wilderness or recommended wilderness areas for a total of
close to 3 million acres, according to Buster La Moure,
director of minerals and geology for Region 1. (The Bob
Marshall’s 1,009,000 acres and the Great Bear and Scapegoat
wilderness’s combined 496.000 acres make up a good per-
centage of that.) “We’re right in the middle of the overthrust
belt, with high oil and gas potential,” said La Moure. “But
we have yet to make a recommendation for or against an oil
or gas lease in a wilderness area in Region I.”

Conservationists are using the breathing space provided by
Watt’s moratorium to work for legislation that would remove
all wilderness from oil and gas exploration. Phil Burton,
senior member of the House Interior Committee, has recently
introduced a bill (HR5282) that would accomplish just this.
Conservationists argue that by recommending leasing the
Forest Service is ignoring its legal responsibility to protect the
country’s remaining pockets of wild country. Forest Service
ofﬁcials counter that the 1964 Wilderness Act clause makes it

their legal responsibility to consider lease applications before

the 1983 deadline. Brock Evans, National Audubon Society
vice president for national issues, says that nationally there
are already 105 million acres under lease for oil and gas
exploration on federal lands and that only 25 percent of these
have been explored. “We don’t argue there is absolutely no
potential for oil and gas in wilderness areas,” said Evans,
“but let’s see how we’re doing by the year 2000. If a desperate
national need develops, Congress could amend the Wilder—
ness Act and exploration in wilderness areas could go ahead.
But when industry has close to 570 million acres to explore in
the meantime, why jump into the only remnants of wilderness

this country has left?" .0.
Deborah Easter

 

18 Pacific Northwest ° April I 982

 

 




Far Thousands of Dogs . . . t ,. W

Hell Begins at Birth
In Cruel Puppy MlllS

A whimpering bulldog sits in a cramped cage,
one eye gauged out. . . A toy poodle limps miser-
ably on only three feet, with one foot chewed off
. . . Dead pups are pulled from their stinking pens
and tossed into a box, ready for burning.

These sickening scenes didn’t happen in some

primitive third world na-l

tion, but here in America
—- at the horrifying “pup-
py mills” in Lancaster
County, Pennsylvania.
“We’re talking about thou-
sands of mills in the county,”
said Laura O’Connor 3 board
member of the Humane
League of Lancaster County.
‘It got to a point where we
had trouble NOT finding pup-
py mills. They range from

farms with five or six female

dogs to some with 300.”

Explained Humane League
member George Kelley:

"These dogs go through hell
before they’re sold. The
breeders are out to make a
fast buck. That’s all they care
about.”

The canine concentration
camps sprang up just recent-
ly, after it became too expen-
sive to fly dogs east from their
traditional Midwestern breed-
ing centers.

‘This is an ideal location
because there are lots of big

 

farms where puppy pens can

be put out of sight,” said
O’Connor.
Posing as a dog buyer,

O’Connor was disgusted by
what she found at a typical
puppy mill.

I was sick to my stomach.
Three 9 month old chows
iwere crowded into a 3- foot by

 

n“ ”its ff w~»_,“.'g:l._' .5."va . ' ‘1 ’

I
x

‘1
. w
«‘14,. -
- .5
.,
l a: x " "‘

‘« *‘tm‘ﬁim. -.-
. {A 1, «gr ’3‘
‘. J r ’ .4»

’—-‘ . ‘, . . r
..- , 7-<'.
. _. .. 1.

oh

‘i‘t

' , WT
PlTlFUL SIGHT: This dog’ 5 feet have been badly cut

 

. 5'. ‘3‘: ‘ . in. - .
\ 9m v. r u 4-33213” any:

a %.

 

 

 

 

CRAMMED into tiny cages, dogs at Pennsylvania puppy mill live life of agony.

3-foot pen. having to lie on top
of each other.

“There were dead dogs in
the pens, young puppies what
hadn’t made it through the‘
night.

“Like some farmers collect ,

 

 

~ 1. . -£ .
. 1: {I ,5 #5:. ”iii; “0

the eggs their hens lay over-
night, these farmers pick up
the dead puppies, then burn
them.

“And when a female dog
gets too old for breeding, they
take her out and shoot her.”

Examples of cruelty and
neglect were everywhere, in-
cluding a full-grown white

bulldog with one eye gauged .

out by a loose cage wire.
A toy poodle O’Connor

‘ if found hadjust three feet. One

g by the floor of its wire cage, so it balances on a tiny
i strip of wood to avoid more injury.

 

orders

foot had apparently been
chewed off.

“There were 90 breeding
females crowded into cages
with wire bottoms.
were piles of excrement

below, and more stuck to the
.. bottoms of the cages.”
The uncontrolled breeding'
“’1‘, of dogs can be dangerous toi
1. 7 people who later buy a puppy,

she added.

Some breeders ignore thei
‘ dangers of inbreeding and;
mate closely related dogs.’

That can cause genetic dis-
“that can result in

There .

a mean or retarded dog.”
State Rep. James Green-
wood is planning legislation to
control the puppy mills.
“It’s a shameful scandal,”
GreenwOad said. “I’ve been
horrified by the cruelty.”

—- DAVID WRIGHT

———-—

 

286i ‘9 Atnr — HHHIHONH TVNOILVN

 




NATIONAL ENQUIRER
July 6, 1982

Dogs Win U. S. Popularity Poll
— (at: Just Aren 't Up to Scratch

The dog is America’s favorite animal -— but surprisingly,
the cat comes nowhere close to being favored, a nationwide
survey reveals.

More than 3,000 Americans were asked how much they liked or
giféllgggegfsselected animals, flShivey, explained why he believes the
The dog ranked number one in pop Ecat made such a poor showing in the
. ‘ survev:
ularity, followed by: horse, swan. ‘ Th b' t f t th t h rt 2";
robin. butterfly, trout, salmon, eagle, :. e xgges . ac or .8 u ca “
elephant. owl, turtle, cat, ladvbug, lm the 90H 15 $me this: Dogs are
raccoon, moose, whale, walrus, bear, égretté Iguch :99??? across a:
frog. gorilla, wolf, coyote, crow, liz-; oar ' “ We 1n . e C359 .0 C? r
8rd,. skunk, shark, vulture, bat, ipeople tend to feel either p051t1ve13 or
rattlesnake wasp. rat, mosquito, 'negat’vely to“ ard them. .
cockroach. . “When we average out the different
“The big surprise was that catsratings people gave to cats,the many
scored as low as 12th place," says Dr. éoegatlve responses brought the p051-
Stephen Kellert. associate professor . “on Of cats on the llSt to below even
of social ecology~ at Yale University. 'that Of the elephant 811d the 0W1. '
Dr. Kellert. who conducted the sur- ‘ -— CHARLES PARMITER

 

 

ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH
May 27, 1982

Pet Of The “feel:

i
i
l
i

 

Reynold Ferguson /Post-Dispatel‘»

This cat is Tat, a 4-year-old
female who’s spayed, declawezi
and said to be very gentle. She is
available for adoption on
application in person at his"
Humane Society‘s main sheltez,
1.210 Macklind Ail/enue.

 




I he Invisible F¢IIC¢ star
or I I I .. ; " _ Tricks like staying home, outside.
0 ' a - Without a fence. Or a chain.
. ' g ' Without upsetting your neighbors.
w ,_ . ‘ Or the police. Or motorists.
’5 * ' Without dragging you around

the neighborhood in the

> ' . ' , middle of the night. Or in the
r . rain. Or snow. Without

costing you a lot of money
and trouble for an

Your ‘    

Homeowners all over the

' I V 1 Delaware Valley have
s taught their dogs these
, g . j~ new tricks for pennies a day.

The Invisible Fence uses
today’s electronic technology
to keep your dog from running
off. We’ll install it. Or‘you can
do it yourself.

It’s time to teach your dog
and you new tricks.

INVISIBLE FENCE COMPANY, INC.
400 East Lancaster Avenue
VVayne,Pa.19087

* III/ti tilt/Ii

Dear Sirs:
I am interested in teaching my dog new tricks like staying on my property with an
Invisible Fence. Please send me more information on:

 

 

Installed Do-lt-Yourself
Invisible Fence Invisible Fence

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NAME: PHONE:

 

ADDRESS:

 

CITY: STATE:

 

DOG NAME: BREED:
Send to: The Invisible Fence Company Or if you can’t wait, call
400 East Lancaster Avenue (215) 293-1000
Wayne, Pa. 19087 PH-6
-——-———_————————————

JUNE 1982 PHILADELPHIA 83

 




SUNSET MAGAZINE - June 1982

LEASH LAW

KATHLEEN PREVOST

When you bring a citiﬁed or suburban
dog with you to the country, it’s impor-
tant to respect the mutual impact of rural
environment and visiting canine. With a
little thought, a sensitive owner can do
much to keep each safe from the other.

Protecting the country from the dog

If livestock could be in the area, don’t let
your dog run loose, even for a few mo-

ments. Depredation due to free-running
dogs is increasing dramatically (last year
it amounted to $250,000 in one northern
California county alone). As the problem
worsens, more ranchers are resorting to
a law that protects their investments in
their herds: when they ﬁnd a dog “mo-
lesting, injuring, or persistently pursu-
ing" their livestock, they are legally en-
titled to shoot the dog. The dog’s owner

can be held liable for double damages,
and could actually spend time in jail.

This is not an experience anyone would
want, but many dog owners do not un-
derstand the possible consequences of
letting a pet off the lead for an airing on
a country road. Extending their pastoral
dream to the canine member of the fam-
ily circle, they do not think about how
near livestock may be, how much harm a
dog in their midst could cause, and how
natural it is for even the sweetest-tem-
pered family pet to give chase in the ﬁeld.
A dog can disastrously panic a ﬂock of
sheep without even taking a bite.

The damages mount swiftly: an ordinary
sheep may be valued at about $500, and
a breeding ram can be worth up to
$5,000. The rancher’s insurance usually
cannot protect him against more than
one big livestock depredation claim.
After that, the losses threaten the eco-

1

When dogs are in the country,

both are in peril

No-nonsense signs
(“Dogs . . . may be shot”)
are part of new
Sonoma County
campaign to enforce
leash laws,

protect livestock.
Dog owners

protect their pets

by heeding

such warnings

nomic viability of ranching itself. So, in
a gesture less cruel than outsiders might
think, he takes gun in hand.

' Aside from ranch animals, your dog also

has potentially damaging impact on
many forms of wildlife and their habita-
tion. For this reason, park rangers and

”animal control ofﬁcers are quick to cite

leash-law violators, and paying the ﬁnes
can really put a damper on a vacation.

. . . and protecting the dog
from the country

When you bring your dog into a rural
setting, you can take certain steps to en-
sure your pet’s safety and your own
peace of mind.

Obey leash laws, for your dog’s sake as
well as the natives’. Aside from a ranch-
er’s gun, your free-running dog is vul—
nerable to bites from other animals, to
ticks, and—especially in dry weather—-
to foxtails, nettles, and burrs. After a
romp in open country, your dog could
also give you a case of poison oak from
the plant oil on his coat.

Keep shots current. Bring a recent cer-
tiﬁcate of health from your veterinarian
as well as a current rabies certiﬁcate (not
just the tag), especially if you are cross-
ing state borders. Rabies may not be a
problem where you live, but it is carried
by different vectors in different areas, and
without the certiﬁcate you won’t be ad-
mitted to many park campgrounds ,or
day areas that otherwise accept pets. Get
your dog an annual DHLPP booster (dis-
temper, hepatitis, leptospirosis, parainﬁu-
enza, and parvovirus), and be sure it’s
administered at least 14 days before your
departure. (For low-cost clinic shots and
neutering, check with your nearest ani-
mal control ofﬁcer or humane society.)
At the same time you get shots updated,
you might ask your vet about preventive
heartworm medication.

 

1 Provide adequate identiﬁcation.

If a long absence is planned, you might
notify your local licensing agency (the
one the dog’s tag would lead to) that you
will be away, and explain how to reach
you or a person who will accept responsi—
bility for the dog.

A dog’s collar, unfortunately, can be lost
or removed. A permanent form of identi-
ﬁcation is the relatively painless tattoo,
usually the owner’s social security num-
ber, done on the inside of the right hind

' leg; check with a reputable breeder on

where to get a tattoo done. Then register
the tattoo with an organization such as
the National Dog Registry (Carmel, N.Y.
10512) so the dog can be traced to you.

Help on where to stay

For a 62—page booklet called Touring
With Towser that lists hotels and motels
that accept pets, send $1.25 to Gaines
TWT, Box 1007, 3 Steuart Dr., Kanka-
kee, Ill. 60902. a

 




Edited by Joseph P. Kahn

Drilling-Mud Dumping: An Offshore Threat to New England Lobstering

We may not need an extensive
oil spill to dramatize the dan-
gers posed to marine wildlife
by offshore drilling in the
Georges Bank area. In fact,
normal drilling, whether oil is
found or not, may already be
producing long-range deleteri-
ous effects on one of New Eng-
land’s most important indigen-
ous industries: lobstering.
According to Jelle Atema, a
Boston University marine bi-
ologist based in Woods Hole,
the heavy use—and wanton
disposal—of “drilling mud”
poses an alarming threat to
lobster populations in the fer-
tile breeding grounds that run
along the edge of the continen-
tal shelf from Nova Scotia to
New Jersey. The mud, a com-
pound of petroleum oils, heavy
metals, and minerals, cools
and lubricates drill bits during
regular drilling procedures. It
is simply dumped overboard
from the rig after usage, either
to settle directly on the ocean
bottom or to be carried away
by prevailing currents. Wher-
ever it ultimately lands, drill-
ing mud wreaks havoc on the
life cycle of the lobster.
“Purely as a toxic agent, this
mud is not all that dangerous
to marine life,” says Atema,
who has been carrying out his
Woods Hole research since
1970. “But we have seen quite
clearly that a layer of mud as
thin as four millimeters is im-
penetrable to the small lobster,
who must burrow into the
ocean ﬂoor in order to be safe
from predators. And we
strongly suspect that the mud
also screws up the mating be-
havior of the lobster by inter-
fering with its senses of taste
and smell. These animals are
extremely sensitive to changes
in the chemistry of their imme-
diate environment, as well as
being highly vulnerable to at-
tack during their early postlar-

3
' 5
_.
O
3

NM‘OHB HathLSIHH.) M1 HdVU

BU marine biologiszj‘elle Atema, with specimen: For lobsters, a

muddied future.

 

val stages. The typical lobster
you buy in a ﬁsh store or order
in a restaurant is already a sur-
vivor that has lived to be six or
seven years old.”

This long cycle of maturity
(adult lobsters grow only about
half an inch per year and might
be 10, 15, even 25 years old by
the time they’re trapped)
means that it could be years
before any significant de-
creases in lobster population
are noticed. Last year, Massa-
chusetts lobstermen brought
up over 10.8 million pounds of

the culinary delicacy, worth
some $22.5 million. These ﬁg-
ures represented steady in-
creases over those for 1979 and
1980. But if catches suddenly
start to plummet in ﬁve or six
years, it will be a little late to
ﬁnd an immediate solution to
the problem. Any study con-
ducted then will be like a post-
mortem on a dead industry.

Among the aspects of the
problem that Atema would
like to know more about right
now is the dispersal of the mud
itself.

‘JUL / ’83;

“A good analogy would be
an industrial smokestack send-
ing out pollutants that produce
acid rain far away from the ac-
tual source,” he says. “The
taller the stack and the stron-
ger the winds, the farther this
stuff goes. With oil rigs, you
have the factor of undersea
currents and layers of different
temperature water that all<g>vc
foreign materials to carry great
distances before they ‘rain’
down on the ocean ﬂoor. A}. of
the drilling on the Gearrfass
Bank is on the southern end.
and the prevailing clockwrs:
currents have two main out-r
ﬂow points: south, toward
Nantucket, and southeaSI, to
ward the submarine canyon
heads on the lip of the shelf.
Right there is where the richest
lobster nurseries are.

“Of course,” Atema adds,
“the oil companies argue that
the very fact the mud is being
dispersed so widely means that
it will be far too diluted to do
any harm. But the real ques-
tion is. one of accumulation,
not how much is falling at any
given moment. We were pretty
conservative in our lab tests. It
didn’t take much to disorien:
an immature lobster and leave
it defenseless.”

Atema entertains high hopes
of moving his research out into
the ﬁeld and conducting long-
er—term studies on drilling
mud and other compounds.
Unfortunately, his $80,000-to-
$100,000 yearly funding from
the Department of Energy and
the Environmental ProteCtion
Agency has been cut off. His
best hope now is: to attract
moneys from an unlikely
source: the oil companies
themselves.

“It was hard to do this in the
past because the ﬁeld of envi-
ronmental research was so po-
larized,” he notes. “But under
Reagan, it’s as if the oil com-

Bosmn Magazine 19

 




 

Reporter

panies feel they can do what
they want anyway, so a little re-
search can’t do any harm. Shell
Oil, for one, has done some
impressive studies on the
North Sea rigs. The problem
with importing European wis-
dom—and I’m Dutch my-
self—is that they’ve already
polluted their environment far
worse than we have, so they’re
not exactly an ideal model.”

What would Atema like to
see as a result of his own com-
pleted research?

“The regulation of drilling-
mud dumping, for one,” he
says. “It’s not out of line that
we could designate undersea
‘desert’ areas as regulated
dump sites, even if it means
hauling the stuff away in
barges. Otherwise, the current
debates in the lobster industry
over raising the legal catch size
and the problems of overﬁsh—
ing are going to start sounding
pretty hollow when there aren’t
any lobsters left to catch.”

 

have cme under fer cious a
tack frm the Mora Majority
and 0- er arch-c servative
groups eeking to ave it re-
moved from pub c-library
shelves.

Orig ally pu lished in
1970, n‘; e handuok under-
went oe major verhaul, in
1976, ad a min face-lift, in
, two million
'zve alre dy been sold,
a doz n separate for-
eign-lan age editions. The
royalties ccr d from the sale
of the M! about $800,000
over the p.. decade—are ap-
plied to the $150,000—to-

copies ‘
includi '*

 

 

packet and other material re“;

 

Freeze the Nukes and Pass the Veal Parmigiana

Just when you thought it was
safe to forswear bean sprouts,
here comes another protest
movement designed to thwart
even the most guilt-free
carnivore.

Several animal-rights’
groups, including the Animal
Rights Coalition, in Cam-
bridge, have begun picketing
the Burger King restaurant
chain in hopes of dissuading
BK patrons from trying its
new veal-parmigiana sand-
wich. Why? “To raise the con-
sciousness of the public to the
suffering entailed in raising
calves as white veal,” accord-
ing to ARC’s Silvia Vitale.

Among the local targets has
been the Burger King fran-
chise on Boylston Street, in
Boston, where diners have
been handed a ﬂier describing
in morbid detail the life of a
veal calf raised for slaughter.
“No straw or other bedding is
provided,” the copy says, “and
the ﬂoors are slatted and un-
suitable for comfortable stand-
ing or resting. He [the calf] is
completely denied interaction
with other animals.”

BK manager Jim Krystof

20 July, 1982

Saving the veals: For many, a lack of social interaction.

 

excerpts

 

has been having a little interac-
tion of his own with the ani-
mal-rights’ people, going
outside to discuss their griev-
ances with them when they
turn up most Saturdays to
demonstrate in front of his
franchised emporium. Krystof
hedges his bets, however,

when asked if the protest is
crippling his veal-parmigiana
sales.

“I’ve noticed some fall off,
yeah,” he concedes, “but I at-
tribute that more to the fact
that even more recently we in-
troduced our bacon double
cheeseburger.”

 

l

EOur B0-

groups who Vterpréted the
book’s frank;l language and

lating to health are.
Several year 7‘ ago,

fampai gr.-

n l9bl,

Jerry Fal-

, six- pa e national
letteri branding

‘out and out hu~
rbage’? that “dis-

ren’s minc'
Also mail'j g'as a page of book
ad been marked
"LY!” and “De-
diatelyl” with

' dbits as the

the book’s

. volume will meet its crit-
ics head on.

 




Page 2, Section 6

HOUSIOI’l L‘nromCie

TuesoaV. May 25, l982

‘ 5399 SPOI‘ jump ~- and dazzle in the limelight as a therapy dog ,

' av BRENDA BEUST SMITH
. .Chronicle Staff

(5*

. dren, stepping shyly through the
slidin doors of Texas Children‘s Hospis
tals. hey‘re all in pajamas, and they
have their doctors’ OKs to come down:
stairs for a treat. But one look at Mark
the Great Dane, and a couple start sidling
back inside.
‘.‘It‘s OK!" the dog’s owner calls out,
and gradually more and more children
appear- to perch on the curb just in front
a; he'hospital. .
‘ ﬂute casion is a performance by the

5. 'newl t ormed Therapy Dogs Internation-.

.-.'al,‘a , ro‘ect of both professional and

‘ amateur s ow dog owners. Mark may be
the star at first. But once the other dogs
start their performances, all share equal-
ly in the enthusiastic applause.

For the owners, showin off their dogs
to shut-ins like these ch'
nursing homes they have visited, the ap-

. plause is a bonus reward for the hours
, hey’ve spent training their pets for show
geompetitions.

The dogs work well together, surprisé

' .ineg so since many of their tricks require

close cooperation. But that's exactly why‘.

they were chosen and why there are so
few of them, explains Sara Nugent, one of
thefounders of the Houston roup. '

s~ «For some time Nugent an friends with‘
dogs which have achieved high rankings.

giii’obedience competitions, ave been‘
entertaining at nursing homes and for
other shut-ins with little informal shows
and visits. Not long ago she read about
Therapy Dogs International. a group
founded in the East, which was trying to

promote that very activity. They decided,

to join. ‘:

It‘s not a project for just anyone with a
dog, however, she warns. And although
they’re hoping to expand their group
‘eventually, dog selection is a very exact-
inpf procedure. All the dogs currently in—
vo ved are not only AKC registered show
dogs, all also have at least one or more
titles in competitions

The dogs’ obedience expertise is more

T FIRST there are only a few chiI—,

ren or at the,

than evident in the show. But what is not“—

quite so obvious to the layman is their
extreme tolerance for new people and
stressful situations.
1 “Even the best of dogs can be upset or
caught off guard'by the unusual: a slick
ﬁhospital floor, an arm in a cast, crutches,
a wheel chair," explains Sara. “These
dogs were selected because we knew they
. could handle such things without losing
' " their mlsel.II" :-
; Now the show is over, and the true test
fat the dogs’ patience has arrived. It takes
;. , a bit of encouraging at first, but soon the
1' women have the children petting the dogs
{and leadin them around the roped-off
,5 driveway. hey want to know how much
';‘..Mark the Great Dane eats. “Not as much
' 'as you‘d think," owner. Shelia Poncio
"starts to tell them, but the other women
*"Iau h. “Be honest, Shelia! "

“ ell," Shelia amends, “They don’t.
eat much after they’re grown."

Far those a little awed by the size of
Mark and his fellow Great Dane, Happy,
there‘s Sunny, a beautiful golden German
Shepherd, and Ruffles, a tiny Pembroke
Welsh Corgi, both owned by Janet Pear-
son. .‘ ’

The adults who have gathered to watch

Sticky, two American Staffor shire Terri-
ers. Spanky lacks only a circle around the
eye to be the spitting image of the old
,‘-‘Our Gang” pet, and owner Nugent
"admits they do draw one on sometimes to
' » please the crowd. Announcer Beth Royall
'is delighted by their interest. She also

raises these terriers and is anxious to .

offset the bad reputation they've acquired
because of the few that are used for fight-
ing. (They’realso known as pit-bull terri-
ers.) ‘

.. . There is no charge for the Therapy

' Dogs rformancecand volunteers wil
take t dogs, with approval, into the
rooms for the bedridden to see and pet.
Their next scheduled performance wil be
at 7:15 pm. Thursday in the Pavillion at
the Texas Institute for Rehabilitation and
Research (TIRR).

Visits and/or shows can. be scheduled
through the Briarwood Kennels, 893-0312.

are more interested in S anky and.

 
    

 

 

  

  

PhotosvaJos-ph Doorlna.Clwootcle Staff ‘ - . ‘ ‘ V I .
Most of the demonstrations performed by Therapy Dogs International this leap by Sunny over Ruffles and a bar held by Stick

‘ y and spanky,
are duplicates of those done in Obedience Training shows but some, like were learned just to entertain the audiences. . . .

 




Therapy Dogs announcer Beth
Royall in top left photo encour-
ages patient Inga Okono to pet
Spanky, an American Stafford~
shire‘Terrier, after the dogs com-
pleted their show in front of
Texas Children's Hospital. In
above photo, James Britton de—
cides to start with little Ruffles.
and work his way up to Mark th'>
Great Dane. At left. after the
show, Peggy Dennis lets awed
youngsters such as Michael Ra}-
DeLeon lead her two Danes.
Mark and Happy, around.

 




Cranes’ frieﬁﬁ§13m§tbmﬁoﬁp

BARABOO, WIS. — The war between the
cranes and the raccoons at the International
Crane Foundation near here is apparently over.
The cranes won, largely because most of the
world was on their side.

You know the background, of course. Tex, one
of only 115 whooping cranes left in the world,
was killed and eaten by raccoons on the night of

June 22. Tex, a female, was brought to ICF by

George Archibald, its founder and director.
As a chick, Tex had been surrounded by people

instead of cranes and therefore had “imprinted” .

physiologically as a person. She could not be
brought into breeding condition by other cranes.

As part of an experiment this spring, George
lived with Tex out in her pen and posed as her
mate. The two of them went through the crane’s
ritualistic courtship dances and talked to each
other in crane language: kind of a whoop, who-
op, whoop. ..

TEX WAS ARTIFICALLY inseminated and
laid an egg, which hatched to become “Gee
Whiz,” a Whopper chick that now wobbles
around on foot-long legs. Adult cranes are four to
'five feet tall. Fourteen of the world’s 15 crane
species are represented at the foundation. The
purpose of ICF is to preserve cranes and their
habitat throughout the world. Work to that end
involves George in much international travel and
negotiating, the details of which get more com-
- plicated than the Mideast wars.

George was only several hours from taping an
appearance on the Tonight show to talk about

 

Bill
Stokes

 

 

 

some of these, crane matters when he got the
news that Tex had been killed.

“It hit me pretty hard,” George said. “I liked
that bir .”

But the show must go on and it did, with

George showing some movies of himself and Tex
doing their courtship dance.

ONE OF THE RACCOONS that ate Tex --
George thinks there was a group of them —- was
still in the pen the following morning and paid
for its rare dinner with its life.

With anthropomorphic license, we could specu-
late, in war correspondence fashion, that the
raccoons met ,in the nearby woods and said to
each other, “This is war. We will attack again
tonight.” '

But only people get into retaliatory killing, so
what more likely happened was that the rac-
coons, motivated by a gastronomic memory that
we all can identify with, said to each other.
“Hey, crane isn’t bad eating. Let’s go get some
more.”

'So they did. The night after they ate Tex, the

'sﬁuiqi 1o awaqos

an: om; 11; no& 919nm 19112111 ou ‘JBM e 1.1213

01 311103 91,1105 uaqm moux 19A9u isnf no;

raccoons chewed through the ﬂight netting over

another pen and dined on a rare Eastern Sarus

crane.

WELL, AN ANALOGY that involves people is
probably not fair to the animals, but this second
raid was a little like what happened when the
Argentinian flag went up on the Falklands. Live
traps were set out, an electric fence was put up,
patrols by foundation personnel were mounted
and professional raccoon hunters were called in.
With special permission from the State, the hunt-
ers and their dogs killed seven raccoons.

The next night, the raccoons chewed into
another pen— and killed a Stanley crane from
South Africa.

Hunters went back into the woods and killed
seven more raccoons.

That’s where it stands now. Casualties are
three cranes and fourteen raccoons.

“We think it’s pretty much over,” Joan Ford-
ham, ICF administrator, said this week. “The
raccoons causing the trouble have apparently
been eliminated.”

“WE DON’T REALLY understand why it all
started,” Archibald said. “We’ve had raccoons
‘around all during the 10 years that we’ve been
here and they never‘ did any harm.”

George and others have speculated that an
unusually high raccoon population has increased
food competition and forced the animals to seek
new food sources.

“The public response has just been great,”
Fordham said. “People have called from all

'9Lu23

'000‘9$ 12 peoud 9mm
gm 9‘“ Supield JO SHBGJQ 9111 9.18111 ‘nem ‘91qnon

3;:io-1e9K-001 ‘9.12.1 10 emoq e Euixuup 3.13M 9M
sixeux pmom ‘suaM uosao ;o uondeoXa eiqissod
am 1mm ‘sn 10 130111 ueqi 9.10m Kue pnq 9.12.1

uo auguip 9.19m £9111 moux 1,up1p (100009.! 911,1,
asegsee 9q 0; seq SUOODDBJ

aspnq p98891-Bu01 ‘9Bue11s

go an; sued 939m 01 111911 9.111 noA pue ‘99129s 9.12
'IE’GP iseq 9111 103 1 mm I pm? ooqema

sasneo sun 11 pue ‘snogAqo s1 .IBMSUB 911,1,
$30.1} ‘9d1.1 395 iou 9.1e seiuaq para 911; ‘uoooaei-
Ali‘é’unq e 9.12 1105 11 329 no& op mum zine .12919
as 9.12 senssi 911,],

pue SGUBJO ueemaq 9110.. ‘JBM 2 19.409 01 9Aeu_
01 08 03 108 1 ‘IIGM 'JBM uoueqeq 9111 BuiJ9Aoo
bills“ pueq 2 pu91 01 peuoiedsip sem 39111293 '
‘qdasop pue ‘JBM spuemeg 91p dn deJ/a 61911 -
‘01 391W soueng 01 was 32m Knueoai 1191mm mg
18111 pawn amt Rem sesame SNQEIHL

nozf J1

f

down on

race ens.

'39176'998‘809 “93 “0U

-e1u.10;u1 .103 'smoi p9p1n3 uoouiaue, .10 Buiuacw
910 10 em uiof 59m ssqun spnqeqi }0 [[2 993
muueo K9111 gem pauouneo- inq parieinooua 9m

Sionsm 'OOQBJBH 1o quou isnf smq 21111101 u9913

6111 a! 199 81 110mm 2191 9111 u: 189181111 10 101
‘ e p912i9u93 seq 12m 11009921 /9ue.19 1139.18 9111,

,ngeme A’eis mm

suooooei ‘Suiﬁetd 01p21 e 9112911105 11 pies p112 111

.paddois isnf .19u11213u110qq319u 2 puv 'SUOODDBJ
}0 p11 Sumeﬁ .10; 829p; 1mm Knunoo 9m .1er

 




L

otters to the editor

ATLANTA CONSTITUTION ~Ju1y'8, 1982

Wild creaturesshouldn’t be kept in captivity

MARIE'I'I‘A —: The sad demise of Susie
the chimpanzee only prOves the point that
large creatures born to exist in 'the wild
shouldn’t be kept in captivity. A commercial
pet store is no place for a chimpanzee, no
matter how great its adaptability to human
situations.

Chimpanzees, as demonstrated through
sensitive studies completed by Dr. Jane Good-
all and related in her book “In the Shadow of
Man,” are intelligent, sensitive mammals.
They’ve adept at utilizing tools. They’re so-
phisticated hunters and clever organizers. But
they aren’t human beings. Their actions can

be unpredictable. And they deserve to live in
their natural habitats without being “an-
thmpomorphized.” '

Policemen are neither zookeepers nor
animal behaviorists. But Susie was neither
Mighty Joe Young nor King Kong, threatening
Fay Wray or the Empire State Building. She
was a frightened creature facing an incom-
prehensible civilization. ‘

Atlanta is the home of the Yerkes Pri-
mate Center, one of the most famous investi-
gative Operations of its type in the world.
That more wasn’t done to arrange a more

cooperative solution with that institution re-
garding the problem is beyond my compre-
hension. What resulted was another example
of man’s inability to understand other living
beings with needs and dependencies upon him.

Perhaps Susie’s owner could ask himself:
Isn’t it curious that after being frightened and
finally shot, the chimpanzee sought refuge in
the one setting it thought safe: the woods?
How much closer to her natural habitat could
she possibly get? And how very far away is
man in appreciating and understanding this
simple need.

 

 

ANDREA PORTOCARRERO ‘

 

Chimp didn’t have a chance

ROSWELL - A couple of events which have
occurred during the past few weeks prompted us to
write concerning the inequities between treatment of
humans who perform criminal acts and treatment of
animals in general. ‘ .

On June 24, a young chimpanzee escaped from a
local pet store and the frightened animal created a pub
lic disturbance. She was promptly gunned down and
killed by local authorities. The chimpanzee, a member
of a threatened species, was guilty of no crime, but was
given little chance for survival. No trial, no insanity

hearing, no delays.
More than a year ago, John Hinckley attempted to

gun down President Reagan, wounding hi
ublic officials. After expensive medical tests and
he was judged to be innocent of a crime
-- and under our judi—
wo months.

other p
a lengthy trial,
that was witnessed by thousands
cial system, he could be free in less than t

Earth and issue punishm

m and several

Humanity needs to re-evaluate its role on this

ent where punishment is due.

ROGER and DEBBIE NELSON

 




PITTSBURGH POST-GAZETTE - June 29, 1982

 

Rare-species imports seized

By Joseph P. Fried

New York Times News Service

NEW YORK -— The shipment
of women’s shoes had arrived at
Kennedy International Airport
on a flight from Italy and was
bound for a store in the Forest
Hills section of New York.

Customs Service inspectors,
noting that the shoes were made
partly of a scale—patterned skin,
referred them for further exami-
nation to agents of the Interior

 

Insight

Department’s Fish and Wildlife
Service.

‘ The agents found that the
scaled skin was from a species of
sea turtle listed as endangered
under the Endangered Species
Act of 1973 and that importation
of the shoes — like the importa-
tion of any product made from

 

"‘
‘1'.

‘.

animals on the endangered list —-
was prohibited.

As a result, said Jo Davis, an
assistant US. attorney who de-
scribed the case, the more than
100 pairs of shoes were seized
and the Justice Department has

, filed a civil suit seeking perma-

nent forfeiture.

It is yet another instance, she
said, of the government’s enforc-
ing the principle that “one way to
deter and halt the killing of

“fat-.3:
. ‘5‘ 'V s‘

“#5" .. i,
1.9:", “Six;

!
.V ,

endangered animals is to elimi-
nate the existing international
market for products made from
such animals.”

But according to Hrach Keri.
vanjian, president of DeVinchi
Shoes, who imported the Italian
made shoes for his store on
Queens Boulevard, the case is
another example of an individ-
ual’s unwittingly having run
afoul of intricate government

(Continued on Page 3, Column 1)

 

 

regulations —— in this instance the jungle of

import restrictions under the Endangered Spe- ,

cies Act. .

If he broke the law “it was done unknowingly,”
Kervanjian said, adding, “I’m a businessman, not
a zoologist.” ‘

Alan Levitt, a spokesman for the Fish and
Wildlife Service, While stressing that he was not
commenting on the particular case, agreed that
Americans, travelers as- well as businesses, im-

porting animal products often are unfamiliar

with the law.

While acknowledging that it could be difficult
for a layman to determine whether a certain
wildlife product could be imported legally, he
said that it was nevertheless the “responsibility
of the traveler or commercial importer to assure
he is knowledgeable about US. laws.”

That many of those buying abroad have not
been knowledgeable — or, in some cases, have
been but have hOped to put one over on customs
nspectors — is clear from the reports by the

ederal authorities.

Since 1973, Levitt estimated, $5 million worth

f goods have been seized at entry points because
hey were made, fully or partly, from animals
otected by the Endangered Species Act. He

fed, thOugh, that the seizures have tapered off,

isiderably in recent years.
3n the other hand, Amos Eno, legislative
actor for wildlife of the National Audubon
iety, said that it was still most concerned
"it the amount of forbidden animal products
’ng into the country. r,
s. said that “assertions that a lot of products
oming in undetected are valid” and that,

largely because of budgetary restrictions, en~
forcement by the Fish and Wildlife service was
still limited. ’ -

Among the more common products that are
seized, officials say, are shoes, handbags and
belts made from turtle, crocodile or lizard skin;
jewelery and scrimshaw of whale teeth and
elephant tusks, anditems made from leopard,
tiger, jaguar and ocelot skin.

Davis, who functions in the Eastern District of
New York and is representing the government in
the litigation over the Italian-made shoes of
turtle skin, has acted in a number of cases.

“I’ve seized a leopard-skin rug, two ocelot
coats, 55 crocodile handbags, 2,500 dried lizard
skins, a jaguar skin and a leopard skull,” she said.

More than 95 percent of the cases involving

'import violations end with the products’ being

forfeited to the government, the officials say,
though civil fines are also 'poSsible. Criminal
prosecution may be sought for repeat offenders
or in cases of evidence of willful violation.
Davis said that no such evidence existed in the
case of Kervanjian, whose company she called a
first offender, so the government action has been
filed in the civil courts. _
Kervanjian said he would fight the forfeiture
and seek to have the shoes, which would have sold
for under $100 a pair, returned to the company
that produced them. A company representative
has assured him, he said, that “it was legal to
import this if the pr0per documentation is pre-

. sented to customs.”

If the shoes are forfeited, they probably will be
used for educational purposes -— as are most
forfeited endangered-species items —— in training
programs for Fish“ " and Wildlife and Customs
agents or in museum displays. ‘

 




ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH
June 25, 1982

anel Backs ‘

imits On

Oil Leases 7

WASHINGTON (AP) — Legislation
that would bar ‘oil and gas drilling in
America’s wilderness areas is going to
the full House after .a committee
approved it overwhelmingly. ‘

The House Interior Committee,
prompted by fears that ‘Interior
Secretary James G. Watt would open
wilderness areas to exploration, passed
the measure Thursday on a 34-7 vote.

The bill was conceived after Watt
challenged Congress to change federal
Wilderness protection laws if it wished
to avoid mineral leasing. Without such
a change, he said, he believed the law
required him to approve such leases.

Faced with major congressional
opposition last year to the possibility of
leasing, Watt agreed to a one-year
moratorium on lease approvals to give
Congress a chance to make any
changes. But that moratorium expires
in ~ December, and about 1,000
applications involving 3 million acres of
wilderness are awaiting action.

The bill would bar oil and natural
gas drilling in designated wilderness
areas and areas recommended for
federal protection by the US. Forest
Service, Alaskan ”lands, ”dealt “with in

/

James G. Watt

separate legislation, are not affected.

The president could seek to reopen
specific wilderness areas to mineral
development by declaring an “urgent
national need,” but both houses of
Congress would have to approve.

Rep. Manuel Lujan, R-N.M., the
senior Republican on the Interior
Committee, noted that Watt “has
suggested that Congress amend the law

if it wishes to clearly enunciate a policy
against mineral leasing in wilderness
and wilderness candidate areas.

“Our bill does precisely that,” he
added.

The bill is supported by conservation
groups, but they said it represented a
bare minimum and contains
weaknesses.

Rebecca Leet of the Wilderness
Society said her organization was
particularly concerned about provisions
in the bill that allow mineral leasing
other than oil and gas, and that exclude
lands being studied by the Bureau of
Land Management for possible
wilderness protection.

“Certainly there is no room for
further amendments” on the House
floor. she said.

 

 




iappy the chimp, as she looks now at age 37, has been living in a cage 0

Shores home

. — Tribune Photo by Ron Hoskins

 

 

 

utside a Dana ,

omeless

Cappy the chimp
made headlines 19
years ago when
she was pulled
over by the Florida
Highway Patrol
while driving down
Interstate 4 in a
sports car with her
owner, Bob Slover,
in the passenger
seat. The
perplexed Highway
Patrol troopers
decided to cite
Slover for driving
without a license
and reckless
driving, but they
also had
complements for
Cappy's driving
abiltiy.

 

TAMPA TRIBUNE

July 5, 1982

Chimpanzee

\

Monkey Who Once Lived Life .
In Fast Lane Needs New Home

By NASH STUBLEN
Tribune Staff Writer

Cappy, the chimp who made
headlines 19 years ago when she was
caught by the Florida Highway Pa-
trol driving a sports car on Interstate
4 near Lakeland, is looking for a
new home.

Bob Slover, who gave Cappy top
billing in his animal show before
retiring 12 years ago, is being pres-
sured by state and county regula-
tions to find a new home for his side-
kick.

Slover, who has been keeping the
chimpanzee in a cage outside of his
Dana Shores waterfront home for
the past 18 months, said he’s got to
get a permit tokeep the animal and
build a much larger cage at consid-
erable expense to meet state and
county regulations.

“It’s tough to get rid of her.“ said
Slover. who has owned the 37-year-
old chimp since she was 6 years old.

But, he said, “I believe she would
be better off in some zoo like Lowry
Park, if a large enough cage could
be provided for her. We could go
visit her often, then,” he said.

“She might even make a come-
back,” Slover said.

As he talked. Cappy, having been
released from. her cage. sat next to
him at a table" on the patio drinking
a glass of iced tea. She stretched a
long arm across the table to offer a
handshake to a reporter.

‘ Whena photographer raised his
camera to take a picture, Cappy

flashed a silly pose just like the good.

old days. It was on one of those good
old days, in December 1963, that

-Cappy and Slover made big news.

Slover, who was also a' lion tamer
and high-wire motorcycle rider, re-
called he and the chimp had gone to
Orlando to do a show. The highlight
of Cappy‘s act was to drive an Aus-'
tin-Henley sports car around the
parking lot. The car was equipped
with dual controls allowing Slover to
take over in case of emergency.

Since Cappy was already in the
driver’s seat at the end of the show,
Slover said, “I decided to let her
drive home to Tampa.”

But. .a motorist, obviously sur-
prised when he saw a chimp driving
the 'car on Interstate 4, stopped to
telephone the Highway Patrol.

“You mean a man dressed in a

,monkey suit?”~ the dispatcher in-

quired. -

“No, a‘ real chimpanzee," the
motorist insisted.

The dispatcher sent a radio mes-
sage to Troopers Lamar Maxwell
and David Sheway, who, although
they may have been skeptical,
pulled their patrol cars off the high
way to wait for the approaching
chimp.

‘ Sure enough. a sports car driven
by. a chimp came by and the two
troopers took pursuit. .

"‘I fallowed the car about 10
miles," Maxwell was quoted as say-
ing in news reports, “and the chimp
drove beautifully.” ,

Slover said Maxwell pulled up
alongside and said “pull over on the
shoulder." When sre did, Slover
said, "1 {lluaéilt the trooper was
going to faint.”

See camp, Page 23

 




1-
0 From Page 13

Since Cappy was behind the
wheel, there was some question of
Who should get the ticket. Maxwell
finally decided to give Slover tickets
for driving without a license and
reckless driving.

When the case came up in court,
Maxwell testified the personable
chimp ﬂashed him a “toothy smile
and a hearty handshake” as he
handed Slover the tickets.

Justice of the Peace Marion Herfv
dry,-’now deceased, dismissed the
charges, stating he could find noth-

ing in the law against chimpanzees-

driving cars. He advised Slover,
though,to keep his f‘circus act” off

Life Magazine and a West Ger-
man magazine did picture stories on
them. They went on the television
program, “To Tell The Truth,” and
stumped the panel.

, Cappy continued to ride in the
cab of a large truck with Slover from
city to city doing shopping center
shows across the nation for another
eight years. -
. About'two weeks ago, the retired
chimp made news again but no one
reported it at the time. It was an in-
cident Which ended up getting
Slover in trouble with the state
Game and Fresh Water Fish Com-
mission and county Animal Control.

Slover said he had her out on the
patio eating ice cream when “some-
thing must have scared her. She

the highway.

 

bolted away, ran out front and
climbed up a tree.” .

He said he tried for five hours to
get her to come down but she resist-
ed. Finally. he said, he telephoned
the Sheriff's Office and officers
were sent from the state and county
agencies. He said he got her down
after they tranqualized her with a
dart. -

The Officers handed him 'a

. county court summons for failure to
have a wild animal under control
and a permit to keep it. He was fined
$25 and given six months probation.

This was followed by 'a county
Humane Society investigationof a,
complaint that the cage Cappy is
kept in isn't large enough for the 85-
pound chimp. -. ,3 ' “

Humane Society officials said
Slover has been cooperative and
they are trying to help him find a
home for Cappy in a 200.

Ross Selita, director of the
Lowry Park 200, said chances are
slim they can house Cappy because
of a lack of room. “We'd have to
build a separate cage for her,” he
said.

He said zoo officials are already
trying to make arrangements to
trade the two chimps they have had
therefor more than 20 years.

He and Humane Society officials
said they would try to help Slover lo-
cate another home for Cappy, but so

' far no luck.

 




Odd couples race in fhe park

It was a real dog's race. and “Tubby“ Ti-Won-On -— a
Chinese Shar-pei shown in the photograh below —- pants
in the heat after completing a two-mile run.

Tubby—and Carl Jackson were among the 108 pairs of
canines and humans who participated in the recent K-9
Fun Run in Memorial Park.

The Tubby-Jackson team -— the 75th to cross the ﬁnish

line —— didn‘t do well enough to take home a top prize.

But Tubby. like all dogs who participated in the race.
received a bandanna and bone just for showing up.
First-place winners Charlie Brown (listed as a North
Carolina mountain dog) and owner Phil Baker of Hous-
ton took home a monogrammed dog’s dish, a pair of

7.91.1918 16 , 1982

running shoes and a 2&pound bag of dog food. Identi ‘al
prizes went to second—place winners Bali and owner
Paul Pana and third-place winners Smokey and owner
Mike Devenport. both of Houston.

Winners in the maiefemale canine category were
Zach and owner Walt F leming; Sam and Paul Bass:
Diesel and Pat Bradley; Blackie and Cindy Bass: San-
tana and John Stowers; and Dianah and Debbie Warner.
all of Houston.

Urging the teams on in the race sponsored by area
businesses was the sign at right.

Davia Gallup, co-director of the race, said plans al-
ready are in the works to hold the event again next year.

 




 

 

CHICAGO TRIBUNE - June 5U, 1982

State acts
in ‘neglect’
of 7 ponies

By Patricia Tennisc'm

SEVEN PONIES impounded by state offi-
cials because of neglect will be sold or given
away this week unless their owner arranges
for better care and pays for the treatment
that brought them back to health.

The seven are part of a herd of 24 owned
by a St. Charles woman who rents them for
children "to ride at town fairs and private
parties in the Chicago area.

The ponies were impounded May 5 be-
cause they were thin and suffering from

roundworms, bloodworms and lice, said Dr.“

Howard Koch, an Oswego veterinarian, who
inspected the ponies for the Illinois Hooved
Animal and Humane Society.

“You don’t see horses with lice as bad as
they had,” Koch said. “They would be a
danger to take for pony rides. The youngest
probably would have died had it stayed with
the bunch.”

THE SEVEN ponies will be sold or given
away this week unless owner Lorraine Men-
khaus of St. Charles finds a .10-acre site for
the ponies, provides a shelter and sufficient
food and water for them, and pays $730 for
boarding and veterinary care, said Donna
Ewing, president of the Humane Society,
which operates under authority of the state
department of agriculture.

Menkhaus’s attorney, Richard Shearer of?
St. Charles, said Tuesday that the re—-
quirements are harassment and that Men-s
ham will sue this week to get the ponies

ck.

On May 25, Menkhaus was ordered by
Kane County Circuit Court Associate Judge
Michael O’Brien to provide adequate food
for the remaining 17 ponies. O’Brien also
ordered the Humane Society to monitor the
care of the ponies until an Oct. 19 court
review. '

Menkhaus said that the 24 ponies “were
all in excellent shape," and she charged that

 

the seven were seized illegally on “trumped
up” charges. She contended that Ewing has
a grudge against her because she owes
Ewing money.

MENKHAUS, whose business is called

TrlbunophotobyCaeregnee
A pony, looking healthier after nearly'two weeks of concentrated care, is given
further attention by Marlene Musnicki. a vlounteer investigator with the Illinois
Hooved Animal and Humane Society.

Pony Express, said she used to keep her
ponies on rented land in St. Charles but “the
ponies were being mistreated there.”

In November, Menkhaus sought help from
Ewing, who kept the ponies at her Bar:
rington home. '

 




PACIFIC NORTHWEST — July/August 1982

Ballyhoo over Bobcats

 

efore 1975, the subspecies of bobcat

found in the eastern Cascades of Wash-
ington and Oregon —Lynx rufus pallescens —
went relatively unnoticed. The animals were
too rare to threaten farmers, too furtive to
become popular attractions for hikers, and
even though their pelts were the thickest and
ﬁnest of any bobcat, they marketed for only
$20 or so — too little to be worth most trap-
pers’ trouble.

Then in 1975 the ocelot, cheetah and
leopard were placed on international en-
dangered species lists. European furriers, the
fur industry’s most voracious customers, had
relied heavily on the bigger spotted cats, and
within months they began turning to bobcats
instead. By 1977, hunters and trappers har-
vested the cats at a rate of nearly 100,000 per
year in the United States; during that year
alone, more than 6,000 were taken in Wash-
ington and more than 3,000 in Oregon. Pelt
prices rose to between $300 and $400 at re—
gional fur exchanges.

The growing pressures on the bobcat were
noticed by a national wildlife preservation
group called the Defenders of Wildlife, which
immediately set out to convince the Depart-
ment of Interior that the cat belonged on the
endangered species list. But the bobcat did
not get listed, and that decision has since
been contested in forums as high as the U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals and both houses of
Congress.

Ironically, neither the Defenders of Wildlife
nor the combined forces of the state game
departments and fur interests dwell on the
morality of slaughtering tens of thousands of
bobcats for fur coats. They haggle over a sim-
pler issue: whether or not the bobcat needs
federal protection at all. The bobcat is so
independent and furtive that it hinders its own
protection: it is not at all easy to say how many
of the creatures are out there.

“That’s why we think a conservative ap~
proach should be taken regarding bobcat
exports,” said Virginia Merchant, the
endangered-species specialist for the Defen-
ders. Last July the Defenders succeeded in
persuading a federal appeals judge to ban all
bobcat pelt exports until states came up with
“reliable population estimates.”

Wes Hayden, a lobbyist for the Interna-
tional Association of Fish and Wildlife Agen-
cies (IAFWA), a taxpayer-funded lobbying
group that represents state game depart—
ments, argues that the federal court’s decision
usurped states’ rights to manage their own

 

There are more ways than one to count a cat ‘

 

/ . ' . a“? ‘ . ’ Aw w». .
~ ,fﬁ‘m -:'c-~- . 7. . “2% - a»;

 

Bobcats: the issue is counting them, not the
morality of makingfur coats out of their pelts.

 

 

resources. Last May, Hayden’s argument
persuaded Congressional subcommittees to
introduce bills overruling the 1981 court deci-
sion and allowing states once again to monitor
the species however they wish.

“The courts banned exports when the bob-
cat wasn’t even listed as an endangered
species,” Hayden said. He insists that the
best way to monitor the bobcat population is
to use the same method used to monitor quail,
rabbits and rodents. “First, we check the age
ratio of the animals being harvested,” Hayden
said. “If trappers are getting a good age
spread, it means sufﬁcient numbers of animals
are living into old age and the kill levels are
okay. If they are getting only one-year-olds,
then we know to cut back the season lengths
or quotas.” Hayden says game ofﬁcials prefer
that method, along with checks on the geo-
graphic distribution and sex-ratio of bobcat
kills, because it is far less costly than the
Defenders’ alternative -— the labor-intensive
practice of monitoring the elusive cats closely
enough to get accurate population counts.

Virginia Merchant says the IAFWA’s indig—
nation over usurped states’ rights and the
costs of estimating population size is “a
smokescreen to veil their own incompe-
tence.” Possibly, but considering the positive
mood in Congress toward the subcommittees’
bills, it seems almost certain that the IAFWA
has won the latest Victory. “The Defenders of
Wildlife are crusaders and the bobcat is their
latest crusade,” said IAFWA executive di-
rector Jack Berryman with a chuckle. “Imag—
ine. The Defenders think we’re running out of
cats.” Will Berryman really have the last
laugh? Time will tell.

 

Kathleen Roos

 

 




 

 

 

Coyotes: m'pping at the tires of jets?

10 Paciﬁc Northwest - fubI/August1982

 

 

Coyotes on the Runway

 

Pilots and coyotes have made a wary truce

he US. Navy has never been quite sure

whether members of the animal kingdom
are friend or foe. Navy pilots have tangled
with water buffalo in Vietnam, albatrosses on
Midway Island, and wild burros in the Mojave
Desert. The Navy gave up on the albatrosses,
but the buffalo and burros came out decidedly
worse for the wear.

Events have taken a happier turn at the
Whidbey Island Naval Air Station, where the
problem is coyotes. Within the past year or so,
a small group of coyotes—no one is sure
exactly how many — has taken up residence
on the base’s runways and in nearby forests,
and, so far at least, the Navy has adopted a
live-and—let-live policy.

“There were not any coyotes on the island
at all up until just recently,” said chief war-
rant ofﬁcer Charles Hammer, the air station’s
assistant air trafﬁc control officer. “The best
guess is that they just walked across the De-
ception Pass bridge one night and moved in.
We’ve got lots of rabbits around here. They
like rabbits.”

Pilots tell tales about coyotes chasing jets
and nipping at the tires the way domestic dogs
do with cars, but Hammer scoffs at that.

 

“Anybody who believes that never saw a jet
traveling on a runway,” he said.

The coyotes have tested the Navy’s pa-
tience, however. When they started chewing
on the arresting gear used to simulate aircraft
carrier landings, the Navy decided that rather
than shoot, poison or trap the animals, it
would simply rig the gear a different way. That
stopped that. Then the coyotes began sharp-
ening their teeth on the rubber-coated wires
leading to runway lights, inciting fears of
short-circuits at a critical moment. “Our elec-
tricians mixed up some nasty—tasting stuff and
painted it on the wiring,” recalled Hammer.
No more chewing.

The only possibility that really worries
Hammer is that “one of the coyotes might be
on the runway when a pilot is coming in or
taking off. If'the pilot didn’t see the coyote
until too late, he might overreact, swerve off
the runway and crash. So we keep reminding
our pilots not to swerve, no matter what.”
Hammer adds that, while there have not been
any close calls, the chance for mishap is not
taken lightly, what with the jets costing be—
tween $20 and $30 million apiece. ‘

David Hooper

 

 

 




"10 Pittsburgh Press, Sum. July 4, 1982
u—

‘ Proposed Elk

O ANIMAL IS MORE MAJESTIC
N than the mighty bull elk. And none

is more coveted by trophy-minded
sportsmen.

But the announcement by the Pennsyl-
vania Game Commission that it plans a
very limited, carefully controlled elk
hunting season late next year, or early in
1984, has already touched .off a

controversy.
Wyndle W ”'50" The Game Commis-

win” situations.

On one side are the
sportsmen and the
non-hunting public
which enjoys glimps-
' " ing at an occasional
ﬂ elk in their Elk and

Outdoorsidilor Cameron County

range. On the other
side are the farmers, about a dozen of}
them, who are finding it increasingly}
difficult to raise craps - particularly
corn -— due to the deprivations of the
foraging elk.

The farmers, as is their right, have
taken to shooting the elk in their fields. A
beautiful 12-point hull was killed within
the past week, and over the past seven
years 17 elk have been shot in defense of
the crops. Six of them were shot last year.

And there have been a number of elk
; killed illegally through the years, many of

them by hunters who supposedly mistook
them for deer.

Let’s take a look at the elk story from
the beginning.

The elk, once native to most of the
eastern United States, is now found in the
wild in only one state east of the Mississip-
pi River - Pennsylvania.

The native elk had long disappeared
from the Keystone State when a few
animals were imported from Wyoming in
1913.

For years the herd maintained a popu-
lation of 30 to 40 animals, with an occa-
sional up or down ﬂuctuation. .

But in the late 1960’s the herd began to
escalate in size, held in check only by an
occasional serious outbreak of brainworm,
a parasite carried by but not fatal to
whitetail deer.

. The Game Commission has kept very

close tabs on the herd and, in the latest
census this past January, counted 135 elk,
including 30 bulls, some of them with
magnificent trophy racks.

With approximately 30 calves expected
this spring, this would bring the present
herd to about 165 animals.

Farmers, who Game Commission per-

These massively antlere

sonnel say have been very patient, with a
few exceptions, as the elk damage com-
plaints escalated, are now demanding
relief.

One farmer, Fred Campbell, said he
believes the controlled hunting season is
the answer to the farmers’ problem.

“We can live with a smaller herd,” he
said.

Campbell also said the problem has
escalated rapidly over the past five or six
years and the elk, a voracious feeder,
damages all crops, including hay and
grains, but “corn is one of their favorites.”

The Game Commission picked a 40-

acre Campbell field for a fencing experi-
ment this spring. ,
‘ The field was completely encircled by a
58-inch high, five-strand electric fence.
The fence, develOped at Pennsylvania
State University, is probably as “deer
proof” as any fence can be.

While the electric fence is far less
ex nsive than conventional fencing, it
stil costs approximately $1 a foot to
install.

Campbell has planted corn, a crop he
has found impossible to grow in this field

d bar

in recent years, and the Commission is
anxiously watching the results .

So far, no elk have penetrated the fence,
according to Bob Mitchell of the Game
Commission.

If the fence proves successful, other
farmers in the area will he offered fencing
materials free of charge, but the Commis-
sion, which built the experimental fence,
will erect no more of the fencing.

Mitchell said six farmers are being
raided with regularity by the elk, while
another half-dozen have sustained sporad.
ic crop damage.

As the elk herd has grown in size, it has
become more and more visible, not only to
the long suffering farmers, but also to the
sportsmen who take advantage of the
prime turkey and deer hunting in the area
and to non-hunting “elk watchers.”

These elk watchers and many of the
sportsmen, including most of those who
own hunting camps in the area, do not
support the named elk season. '

But the controlled season is the only
sensible way to solve the problem.

The herd cannot be allowed to increase
unchecked. If it does, cr0p damage com-

 

Ik are pan .2"""»..‘ 165...”. '5......,1....m.;d.

plaints are bound to continue to the point
where the embattled farmers will seek
legislative help.

If this happens, the elk themselves are.

not likely to be considered.

Another alternative that has been sug-
gested to me by more than one reader is:
“Tranquilize them and tranSport them to
areas where they will not be a problem.”

I am sure Game Commission biologists
who have been faced with out of control
deer herds in some urban areas — such as

the Fox Chapel area locally - shudder

when they hear such suggestions.

Even if the drug-and-transport Option
was feasible, and it certainly is not be-
cause of prohibitive costs if nothing else,
where would you take them except to a
zoo, and no one wants that.

I am convinced the Game Commission
has come up with the only feasible answer
-— let the sportsmen who have 'd for the
elk program reap the benei of the
oversized herd.

Final details of the pr0posed season
have yet to be worked out, but those
announced to date call for a,810 non-
returnable application fee.

 

59m" .Twches 0” Controversy

From the applications submitted (I
predict a minimum of 50,000), 30 would be
drawn, and those 30 would be awarded
licenses at an additional cost of 815.

These fees have prompted the expected
accusation from detractors of the Com-
mission that the plan is a “money-making
scheme.”

I don’t think so, although it seems to me
the Commission could forego the $15 fee
for the lucky 30.

But $25 is dirt cheap for an elk license
when you look at the $200 non-resident
license required of Pennsylvania hunters
who go to most western states with viable
elk populations.

Even without a guide, one of these
western hunts will cost a minimum of
$750 to $1,000, and with an experienced,
result-producing guide it will go several
times that much.

But guides, Game Commission person-
nel, will be provided for the “lucky 30,"
and the Commission expects a near 100
percent success ratio in the three day
season.

Of course, not all 30 permittees will be
allowed to shoot a bull.

A second drawin will be held to deter
mine who gets b and who gets cow
permits.

I have had more than one reader call or
write alreagg with charges the drawings
will be fix . -

I don’t believe that for one minute.

Although I have had my differences
with the Game Commission over what I
am still convinced is the mishandling of
the 1982 muzzleloader deer season, no one
will ever convince me that the drawings it
conducts for limited licenses or permits,
for example the blinds at the Pymatuning
Waterfowl Management Unit, are any-
thing but strictly on the up-and—up.

A couple of suggestions I would make
though are: ‘

1. Allow the “trading” of permits,
whereby a person who draws a cow
permit would be allowed to trade with one
who drew a bull permit if both parties are
agreeable.

No doubt some money would change
hands in this transaction, but so what?
There are those hunters who are not
interested in the meat but who would
appreciate the trophy rack, and vice
versa.

2. Make it a “once in a lifetime” permit.
In other words, if you draw an elk permit
this ear, you would never again be,
eligib e for the drawing.

Regardless of how it is done, there will
be complaints and accusations.

We can only hope they will be at a
minimum.

 




MEMPHIS COMWERCIAL APPEAL - July 4, 1982'

.Tirnber Wolves Inspire
Both Friends And Foes

GRAND RAPIDS, Minn. (AP) '- Feelings run to
extremes about Minnesota’s 1,200 timber wolves. En-
vironmentalists want to protect them at all costs,
while farmers and hunters want them destroyed.

“The wolf has survived 1n spite of man and some
people resent that. They resent their independence, ”
said Karlyn Berg, known to some as the “Wolf Lady”
for her efforts to protect the animals.

“What good are the wolves?” counters Clarence
Priem, a farmer from Big Fork who has lost cows to
wolves. “Why would anybody think they’re going to
run out? We had a bounty on them and they didn’t
run out. It’s just a shame when a farmer can’t protect
his own cattle.”

In 1981, 38 Minnesota farms had verified wolf
kills, losing 6 cows, 55 calves, 242 sheep, 725 turkey, 10
geese, 8 goats, 1 pig, 100 guinea hens and 4 dogs. The
state compensated farmers for part of their losses.

Bounties were paid until 1965, and hunting con-
tinued after that. By the mid 1970s, the population
had dropped to a few hundred animals. In 1973, the
federal Endangered Species Act gave wolves full
protection.

The state is trying to assume wolf control from
the federal government and wants a limited harvest
of 50 animals a year. An estimated 250 wolves a year
are killed illegally. Berg said she will go to court to
fight state takeover of wolf protection _

Hunters maintain the wolf is depleting the popu-
lation of whitetail deer in Minnesota.

Todd Fuller, a state wildlife biologist who has
done studies on the purported depletion, says wolves
kill about 15 to 20 deer each, or about 22,000 animals
per year. Legal hunters take about 100, 000 deer a
year; poachers kill another 100,000.

Myths about the Wolf die hard, said Steve Fritts, a
federal wildlife biologist in Grand Rapids who has
‘ made a career of studying Canis lupus— the gray
timber wolf.

The studies take place in Minnesota because
wolves are more numerous there than any other spot
in the United States.

Fritts, working with wolf expert David Mech, has
completed various studies, including trapping
wolves and attaching radio collars for tracking. His
studies have yielded new information about the hab-
its of the wolf.

One myth, Fritts says, “is that wolves are quite
dangerous to humans. I guess I can consider that a
myth when you consider how many humans have
lived in close proximity to how many wolves for how
many years.”

Fritts notes that there is not one documented
death attributable to a wolf attack. He adds that the
rare wolf attacks on humans usually are a matter of
the two accidentally crossing paths.

Fritts’ assistant, Bill Paul, adds that most wolves
are afraid or cautious of people “-but very curious.
Sometimes they will stand and watch you. You may
be the first human its ever seen. They becmne more
fearful, the more they are persecuted.”

Wolves normally travel in packs of two to about
10 animals, and each pack has a social structure.

There is a dominant male and female, with the
male the leader. These two are the breeding
hiearchy.

“Every young wolf in the pack has two options if
they want to breed and pass on their genes,” Fitts
said. “They can stay with the pack and take their
chances of working up the dominant hiearchy. Or
they can disperse and take their chances looking for
a mate.”

The new pair must then find an area of 50 square
miles or so to call home.

One thing about wolves, Fritts said, is their ha-
tred for dogs. A wolf will go out of its way to attack
and kill a dog, and no dog has much of a chance

against the more powerful wolf.

4-..... -

huh-0‘

baa hour-O

 




 

 

' God’s Dog

HE HAS BEEN calledfthe most intel-
ligent of all canids; yet he is hunted
mercilessly. Indian folklore credits him
with the creation of manvand the gift
of ﬁre; yet the mere sight of him makes
some peoples’ blood boil with hatred.
One author so admired him, she called
him “God’s dOgj” most sheep ranchers
curse him with unprintable invectives.
7 He is the coyote, paradoxical cousin
of the dog who is at once admired for
his adaptability and simultaneously
subjected to the intense decimation

Dog’sWorld ‘

 

 

Briefs

to the rabid dog.

$50,000.

 

. . .Back in 1980, a dog picked upafter he bit three people in a parking lot in
California was found to be rabid.'The incident touched off a countrywide
investigation that eventually turned up more than 70 more people who had
come in contact with the dog and who had to have anti-rabies prophylaxis;
2,000 dogs whose rabies vaccinations were out-of-date and 300 unclaimed
dogs and cats who ended up being destroyed. The tab for this one incident
amounted to $105,790, not including human work time lost, patient travel
time and the cost of the required six-month quarantine on animals exposed

. . . The Peninsula Humane Society of Sa
other local and national groups, is offering a $10,000 reWard for information
leading to convictions in cases of people caught ﬁghting dogs. Dogfighting
is a felony in the state of California, subject to a jail term and ﬁnes uprto

n Francisco, in combination with

 

 

that has eliminated the bear, wolf,
mountain lion and other large preda-
tors from their former haunts. Yet the
coyote population never seems any the
worse for wear. Says one California
sheep rancher, “Civilization may end
and man may vanish, but not the
coyote. He’ll be here forever.”

Despite this insightful bit of wis-
dom, the battle to eliminate him con-
tinues, fueled by the mauling death last
year of a three-year-old girl outside her
Glendale, California, home, and the
recent reauthorization by the Federal
Government of the controversial

Photo. Robert Pearcy

 

Compound 1080. Compound 1080 is
a highly-toxic poison that was banned
by the Nixon administration because
it killed not only coyotes, but bears,
foxes, owls, raccoons, domestic dogs
and our own endangered national
symbol ~— the bald eagle.

Sheepmen applaud the recent ruling,
and the proposed reauthorization of
denning ——- the gassing, burning or
bludgeoning todeath of coyote pups
in their dens -——- as an answer to their
predator problems. Conservationists
and humanitarians see it otherwise.

Evidence shows, for example, that

coyotes, like most predators, usually

take large game only during the whelp—
ing season when they don’t want to be
away from their dens for long periods.
Otherwise, most coyotes prefer a diet
of grasshoppers, gophers, rats and
other varmints that otherwise love to
raid crops, grain stores and houses.
Furthermore, biologists say there has
been no appreciable change in the
coyote population since Compound
1080 was banned in 1972, and that
coyote populations are, in fact, self-
regulating. In other words, in times of
little food and/ or predation, litters are
small and infrequent; in times of high
predation, when the resultant food is
abundant, litter size and frequency
increase accordingly. One computer
model of coyote reproduction shows
that a resident coyote population could
withstand 70 percent predation with-
out suffering a population set-back by
the next year. -
Unfortunately, most Sheepmen pre-
fer to think we’d be knee-deep in
lamb-chomping coyotes if they weren’t
out shooting coyotes from helicopters
or airplanes, or poisoning, trapping,
gassing or burning them. And the
government seems to agree. Federal

DOG FANCY

 

 




 

predator-control agents and private fur
trappers alone accounted for 435,000
coyote kills last year, and private in-
dividuals took many thousands more.
The response of one organization,
the Humane Society of the United
States, hasnbeen to sue Interior Secre-
tary James Watt, asking that the ban
on Compound 1080 and the practice
of denning be reimposed until the
matter can be put to public vote, until
, the long-range environmental impact
of this proposed decimation can be
analyzed and until the alternative
methods — such as the sheep-guarding
dog programs —-— have had a chance
to prove their worth. If you want
to express your support, write The
Humane Society of the United States,
2100 L Street, Washington, DC. 20037.

Going. Home

ALMOST ALL OF us have heard
amazing tales of lost or abandoned
dogs who, after many weeks and miles,
miraculously ﬁnd their ways back
home — often over rough and danger-
ous terrain. Almost none of us, how-
ever, have heard these stories ﬁrsthand.

We here at DOG FANCY plan an
article chronicling some of these pre-
sent-day “incredible journeys,” and we
turn again to our readers. If you have
ﬁrsthand knowledge (not heard the
story via your brother’s best friend‘s
father’s third cousin’s wife) of a dog
who has made such a pilgrimage, please
let us know about it. Be sure to include
the particulars of the incident, the
dog’s name, your name and address
and, if you know it, the name and
address of the dog’s owners. Photos
are also a great help. Address all cor-
respondence to Canine Chronicles,
DOG FANCY, PO. Box 4030, San
Clemente, CA 92672. Look for these
real-life stories of love, loyalty and
devotion in an upcoming issue of
DOG FANCY.

We, the People . . .

THE LAW, as it pertains to dogs,
should ideally beneﬁt both dogs and
people. Most of the time, though, such
laws beneﬁt one at some expense to
the other; and some proposed laws,
like the one recently killed in indiana
that would put a 1-cent-per-pound tax
on dog food, seem as though they
would not beneﬁt dogs, their owners
or the general public.

Here, as of press time. are some
other recently proposed pet-related
bills in various states across the nation:

AUGUST 1982

 

more than $5,000, and would make it
a misdemeanor to abandon an animal
or to conﬁne one without adequate
food, water or excercise.

0 Maryland bill H552 would provide
for tenants’ rights to keep pets. (Similar
bills on this topic are in the works in
other states, as well.) Proposed bill 896
would provide for establishing guide-
lines to keep pets in nursing homes.

0 Massachusetts bill $204, if passed,
would prohibit the sale of cats or dogs
under eight weeks of age. _

0 New York Assembly bill A6059
would prohibit the sale of a dog or cat
by a pet shop. S966 would prohibit
the giving of dogs or cats as piizes. '41

0 Arizona bill H2501 would make
it unlawful to keep any animal in an
untended motor vehicle without ade-
quate ventilation and protection from
extreme temperatures.

0 California bill A616 would require
that a sign be posted if veterinary ser-
vice is not provided during the night
for animals kept overnight. $1438
would prohibit any public pound or
shelter from'selling, giving or transfer-
ring any dog or other animal for the
purpose of experimentation, testing,
demonstration or research.

0 Florida bill 8182 would increase
the penalties for cruelty to an animal
to a ﬁne of not less than $1,000, nor

 

 

, I i ' ® -
[IV-a Snaps 'dEIWEI'S
Every IIVEI'MVEI
'0'”. Every dog’s a liver-lover.

That’s why there’s real llver in every
Liv-a Snap Liver is the best source of
vitamins and minerals your dog can
eat. And Liv-a Snaps is the only
leading dog treat made with the
liver he loves. So when you want
A to treat him to the goodness of
’ real liver, treat him to Liv-a Snaps.

Treat your dog right. Treat him to Liv-a Snaps.

 

 

 

 




 

 

The days of the caribou.
that once ioraged all’
across the northern United
'States. seem numbered.
Cows aren't producing” as
they should and the
animals wen't alter their

ancient ways. —— UPl -

THE TAMPA TRIBUNE-TIMES, Sunoay, .JUly 4.

I304

 

Jasper Carlton and his wife.
Kitti, transplanted nature ‘
lovers from Maine. have. _
dedicated a large portion of
their time to saving the ever " '
declining caribou herd that ‘1
now numbers only 20
animals.

Will Bureaucratic Foot- Dragging Doom The Noble Caribou9

JERRY McGlNN
United Press International

BONNERS FERRY, Idaho -- '

The graceful caribou once foraged
all across the northern United
States. Now only the Selkirk Mouno
tain herd of northern Idaho re-
mains. Its days seem numbered:

The herd, which wanders back
and forth across the Canadian boro

der, is down to 13 to 20 of the ant-'-

mals that are called reindeer by
children, farbelow a normal popuv
lation of 100 to 300 head.

The only man who has counted
the Selkirk herd recently is Jasper
Carlton, a transplanted nature
lover from Maine who has made
saving the herd his mission.

lie and his wife, Kitti, raise

goats on a small farm and sell the
’ milk to make ends meet. The rest

of their time is dedicated to the
caribou.

lie has spent the better part of
four years, hugging open fires for
warmth and snowshoeing hundreds
of miles for a chance to pick up a
few footprints or droppings.

He believes this last race of .

caribdu can be saved but doesn't

,think the bureaucracies involved

will act soon enough.
“I fear the foot-dragging will go
on to the last critter,” he said.
The major trouble with this ant-
lered member of the deer family is
that it insists on maintaining its old
ways.

Although the caribou feeds in
summer on succulent high-country
grasses and shrubs above 4,500
feet, in winter they eat mossy li-
chens, which hang only from
spruce and sub-alpine fir trees 150-
250 years old. Modern timber prac-
tices remove these trees.

The caribou, larger than deer,
smaller than 'elk, also refuse to
hide or even run from hunters.
They keep to their instinctual trails
which have been adopted by man
for highways, access roads,‘gas and
power lines. Wildfires and infesta-
tions of the pine bark beetle take a
toll.

The International Mountain
Caribou Technical Committee,
made up of wildlife biologists, US.

and Canadian officials and authori‘ '

ties from the private sector, has
been studying the Selkirk herd for
11 years.

Committee members agree one
reason for the decline of the’ herd
is that cows are not producing
calves as they should, but they
don’t know how to reverse the
trend.

But $50,000 a year is needed to
find an answer. But all agencies in-
volved are strapped for funds. Fur-
ther, there is the question of
whether the herd has become too
small to save.

The US. Forest Service has a
long-term land use plan for Pan-
handle National Forest where the
herd forages when not in Canada.

 

It would declare 160, 000 acres of
the 2.5-million acre forest critical
caribou habitat, meaning the rein-

' deer will get first consideration be-
fore any logging or man-caused ac- '

tivity is permitted.

The Forest Service has opposed
a recommendation the animal be
placed on the endangered species
list on grounds the National Forest
Management Act-gives it enough

' authority to preserve its habitat.

But, due to tight federal budg-
ets, neither officials from the For-
est Service nor the Fish and Wild-
life Service in Washington, D.C.,
held out any hope money would be
forthcoming.

"Such'a moderate sum is need-

ed, ” Carlton said. “The California
Condor has received a commit-
ment of $25 million and it-hasno
habitat. We're looking for $350,000
to study this critter that does haVe
a. habitat and many people and .
agencies. both in the private and
public sectors, willing to work on
its behalf. " '

Although he said the caribou is
not the only animal in dangerin
diminishing old-growth - forests
stands, it is at the top of the food
chain and certain to go first if
something isn’t done to protect it.

"It seems a real shame. I know
people will care about this critter
as soon as they learn about the
trouble it’s in.’

 

 

 




 

SP -\
_- r‘
23—“ “~_
,————— - .__.. x
\s ‘-

\.~..___ , ..\“

a TI'EJOlBNALi-ERALD Deyton.0hlo

Some may remember 1982 as the year of the rab-
bit. When was the last time you saw as many baby
cottontails? '

Little rabbits dart through suburban yards, bound
Tacroas country roads and. before summer is over,
iinany wllrbe producing families of their own.

Still. when the opening of the rabbit season arrives
on Nov. 8 (a week earlier on public hunting areas).
you can be sure hunters will be wondering what hap-
pened to all the cottontails they saw duringthe
summer.

Ohio Division of Wildlife biologists will have a bets
ter answer to that question because of their research

project now under way at Delaware Wildlife Area
north of Columbus.

The public hunting grounds on the east side of
Delaware Lake has had a dual decline in cottontails.
Not only is there an annual reduction from spring to
summer at Delaware, but a long-term shrinkage of
the rabbit resource over a period of years.

_ To find out what's happening to the rabbits, re-
searchers live-trapped 15 of the animals from differ-

 

LI... WrW yam W /./

Researchersfuning m radio fo IOcafe rabbifs

 

 

 

ent sections of the wildlife area. To each a small
radio transmission collar was attached and the rab-
bits were released.

Beeps emanating from the transmitter enable
biologists to follow the movements of the animals
day and night. Thelocations of each is charted on a

map, allowing researchers to see what places the:

rabbits prefer for feeding, hiding, resting and
breeding.
“With this radio equipment we can learn the

amount of space our rabbits need to survive and the '

habitat they like." says Bob Boyd, chief wildlife
investigator on the project.

 

Boyd points out that the radio device makes it
possible to recover rabbits that have died. With fur-
ther examinatiOn, it can be determined what was re-

’ sponsible for the deaths of these animals. ~
The radio collar used on the rabbit sells for about

$275 and is reusable when it can be retrieved. The
receiver, antenna and other equipment costs about
$1,200. A bigger expense is the number of man hours
spent on the research, which is to be continued next
year.

In 1983, the biologists will focus their study on
rabbit reproduction. A tiny vaginal transmitter will
be implanted in the does. The device will not affect
breeding, yet it will yield considerable data about
rabbits during the nesting period.

Money“ to finance this researCh Comes from the
wildlife division. which gets its funds from hunters
and anglers who buy licenses to hunt and fish.

Inasmuch as the rabbit is the most popular game
animal. hunters probably will be glad this study is
under way and will be eager to know why so many
rabbits die before the hunting season starts.

Based on less sophisticated studies conducted in the

‘ past, biologists have related the long-term decline in

the rabbit population to deterioration of wildlife
habitat. .

Hunting has little to do with the decline of the
rabbit population, some biologists have said. They
also say that predators, suchs as owls, hawks and
foxes, don't account for an excessive decline in
cottontails.

While disease plays a role in reducing the number
of rabbits, the loss generally attributed by wildlife
disease is not abnormally high for rabbits.

So what is the biggest factor controlling the
density of this prolific wild game animal? Perhaps
the biologists can say with more authority after this
study. It would be better yet if the research helps

biologists apply wildlife management measures that

could mean more rabbits in November.

 

 

i

Radio collar allows researchers to study rabbits

 




DAYTON DAILY NEWS - July 13, 1982

Tail-waggers

. - Fido now can sip his own soft drink

while nibbling People-Bones cookies

By HAL LIPPER
Daily News Staff Writer

Gourmet goodies have gone to the dogs. Witness
two new products breaking into the Dayton market-
place this month: Arf "11 Art Dog Drink and People-
Bones Chocolate Chip Cookies.

Arf.’n Art is a chicken-flavored soft drink for dogs.
A six-pack should retail for between $2.29 and. $2.49
when it appears on supermarket shelves by the end
of July, according to Arf ’n Ari inventor Dick Wall.

People-Bones, the bone-shaped chocolate chip and
pecan cookies, are already selling like hotcakes at
$4.99 a lZ-ounce box at Overbey’s Emporium in the
Arcade.

ARF ’N ARF’S WALL figures a society that readily
purchases Doggie Donuts and People Crackers
shouldn’t have much difficulty swallowing his idea
of a dog drink.

“There is a real need for Arf ’n Ari,” said Wall, 61,
founder of Bonanza Steak Houses and more recently
chairman of the board of Command Performance
Hair Salons.

“Historically, there have been only two drinks for

dogs ,-- water bowl water and toilet bowl water.

- Most dogs drink but of the toilet because their

owners forget to fill their water bowls,” he said. 7: ~ ~ . .. .__.,_»..
“Ari ’n Arf can be served over dry dog food, straight ' ' y ‘ V ’ _ 3

or on the rocks.” , . .. _. ~ it“ 1

Wall said his product was sampled informally by ‘ Sh“ MW 3'

Arf, arf? It’s People-Bones

SMML bvBIGam

Bow-wow! It’s Arf ’n Arf

500 dogs and none registered a complaint. But then,
' dead dogs tell no tales.

SNOOPY. The Dayton Daily News test Dalmatian. 1,200 boxes of People-Bones during the three days
— tried Arf ’n Arf with his dinner and as a beverage. He . preceding Father‘s Day, he said.

readin devoured both, although he has never been. People-Bones are packaged in a carton that could

known for. his discriminating palate. _ ' pass for a new brand of Milk Bones. Arf ’n Arf comes
This Wl'ltel' was surprised by the robust flavor 0f in a box that looks like a Little Orphan Annie comic

“People-Bones, although I had difficulty giving the strip. ,

:cookies away to passers-by who were suspicious of Wall concocted his first batch of Arf ’n Arf one

" their shape. , .dog day afternoon while drinking martinis with part-
“Test results demonstrate that 1 percent of the ; ners Thor Pearsson, 57, and Daphne Walker, 45-

' public turns their noses up at People-Bones, but the , , .
other 99 percent sniff it and come back for seconds,” i WALKER S POOCHES were nosing around the

said their inventor, Dale Robinette, a 38-year-old l gin, “so we went into the kitchen and crankednup the
actor from Topango, Calif. in Cuisinart and made a soft drink for dogs, Wall

Robinette began baking People-Bones in January f; recalled. . y . .
when he was between jobs. He had one customer, _- The original formula— chicken broth, garlic pow-
Neiman Marcus of Beverly Hills, which sold his der, salt, sugar and water f“ “9563' resembles the
cookies for $7 a box. final product. A laboratory in Quincy, Mass, adapted
it for commercial production.

“We did some research and discovered that people
don’t like adding water to dry cereal dog food be-
cause they feel they’re cheating their pets,” Wall
said. “They want to add gravy and our dog drink has

“THE MAXIMUM production out of my home:
kitchen was eight boxes an hour which was paying
me minus three cents an hour and left me dog-tired,” ,
Robinette said. “I've now secured a factory that puts i
out 1,500 pounds of cookies an hour.” "

H' l b' . ts might ll be d f 1d a gravy-like consistency.”
IS peOp e xscui as we ma e‘o go . .
Orders are raining in like cats and dogs. He has sold Some 5409000 6-ounce bottles 0f chicken-flavored

more than 50,000 boxes in six months and his retail A” ’n A” have already been capped. ‘
outlets will soon number 500. A Seattle store sold ‘

 

 

 




 

 

CHICAGO TRIBUNE - July 6, 1982

Donna Ewing, president of the Illinois Hooved
Animal Humane Society, at an Oswego farm
with some of the ponies deemed neglected or
mistreated and consequently taken from their

Pet owner’s
Impoundmg

By Patricia Tennison

IF YOUR NEIGHBOR thinks you have mistreated
your pet, a volunteer inspector can walk into your
back yard, take the animal and eventually sell it.

It’s legal. But to those whose animals have been
taken, it’s outrageous.

“The door is open for the most gross abuse,” said
Richard Shearer, an attorney representing Lorraine
Menkhaus, a suburban St. Charles woman whose
seven ponies were impounded May 5 and sold Friday.

“It seems totally contrary to our system of justice
that they can do this without a court order. It’s
incongruous that a mere investigator can take and
conceal ponies,” Shearer said.

The investigator involved in the impounding of
Menkhaus’ ponies is Donna Ewing, a Barrington
woman who helped draft the 1973 Humane Care for
Animals Act.

SHE IS THE LEADER of a statewide group of 36
volunteer investigators who in the last nine years
have impounded about 250 horses, cattle, goats and
even pigs that were deemed mistreated.

“There was no department responsible for enfor-
cing animal abuse cases—no police department, no
humane society and not the [state] Department of
Agriculture,” said Ewing, president and founder of
the Illinois Hooved Animal Humane Society.

Ewing worked with the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to write the humane care act. Under the
law, the Department of Agriculture appoints volun-
teer investigators who respond to complaints and are
authorized to enter private property to see if an
animal is being mistreated.

IF AN INSPECTOR decides the animal is the
victim of abuse .or neglect, the owner is given 48
hours to improve the situation. If nothing is done, a
humane society can impound the animal and, eventu-
ally, sell it if the owner doesn’t agree to provide

. proper care. '

The law defines a humane society as any state-
chartered, not-for-profit group organized to prevent
cruelty to animals. Ewing’s Barrington-based group
is only one such society, but it is the only one in
Illinois that handles large animals.

Tribune photob' John Dzrekan

.owners. She says her volunteer group does not

abuse its power: “At no time can any ‘humane-
lad—that’s what I call people who think horses
need pillows—keep the animals."

peeve: State
of animals

“Any four or five people can start one. There must
be a hundred of them,” said Dr. David Bromwell,
chief veterinarian of the Agriculture Department’s
animal welfare bureau, which administers the
humane care act.

TO QUALIFY as an investigator, a volunteer must
be familiar with the humane care act and have
expertise in investigating animal abuse.

“I’m the one who gives the test. I get a feel for
what you would do [on a case],” Bromwell said.
“We’ve had to reject some [investigators] for being
overzealous, but that’s been rare. It does require
restraint.”

The seven ponies sold last week originally were
checked by a local veterinarian. Then, after long-
distance telephone conversations between Bromwell
and Ewing, the animals were impounded by Ewing’s
humane society and taken to foster homes.

“Whatever [Ewing] says goes unchallenged. With

that kind of backing, she can do anything and get
away with it,” Shearer said.
‘ THE INVESTIGATORS have power, Bromwell ac-
knowledged, but what he considers worse is “the
power for a person to starve an animal. How would
you like that?”

The law gives the investigators power, but it also
provides checks and balances, Ewing said. Owners
can get animals back within seven days if they
provide what the Department of Agriculture con~
siders adequate care. ’

“At no time can any ‘humane-iac’—that’s what I
call people who think horses need pillows—keep the
animals, even if the animals were in a desperate
situation,” . Ewing said.

The ultimate decision is made by the owner when
he decides whether to comply with the law, she said.

When these cases reach the courtroom, the investi-
gators do represent a state agency, and they often
have evidence such as photographs or testimony
from veterinarians to back them up, said Associate
Judge Michael O’Brien of Kane County Circuit Court.
O’Brien last month ordered that the St. Charles
ponies be cared for according to standards recom-
mended by Ewing and Bromwell.

Ewing notes that the Illinois Hooved Animal
Humane Society has had 12 court cases—and has won
them all.

 

 

 

 




CINCINNATI
ENQUIRER

July 9, 1982

 

 

 

BETTY MOORE is in trouble because of complaints about her dogs.

Blind Woman May Have To Give Up Pets

Ira te Neighbors
(HienSknde,FWoise .

BY STEVE HOFFMAN
Enquirer Reporter

DEER PARK—Betty Moore began
rescuing stray dogs last year as
therapy to help her cope with her
blindness of eight years.

The way things look now, the

. resident of 8207 Lake Ave. will
’ have to give up her hobby or move

from this quiet neighborhood and
the City of Deer Park.

Recently, she was convicted in
Mayor Francis R. Healy’s court on
a charge of harboring barking
and howling dogs. Healy suspend-
ed the $50 fine, but told Moore, as
he tells all first offenders, that

9 there will be no such suspension

for the next similar offense.

IN ADDITION, the Hamilton
County Board of Health may
prosecute her because of the odor

her eight dogs are causing in her '

backyard. Health officials have
sent her two notices about condi-
tions, prompted by neighbors’
complaints. ,
As if that is not enough, the
city may have a zoning violation
waiting in the wings. According to
David O’Leary, safety-service
director, kennels or veterinary
hospitals are not mentioned in
the entire city code. -
Moore’s dogs are licensed by.

the Hamilton County SPCA
through a $20 kennel license. But
she does not house dogs for fees.
Besides her pets, she takes in
strays. . -

Moore, 55, was a laboratory:
medical technician for 20 years
before she was declared legally
blind in 1974 due to retinitis pig-
mentosis. In 1980, she secured her
first guide dog. She now has her
second guide dog, Pro, a 50-pound
German Shepherd female.

ABOUT EIGHT months ago,
Moore said she became interested

, in helping stray animals.

“It’s something I can do,” she
said. Her counselors thought it
would be good therapy, she said.

The howling dogs and their
accompanying odors, however,
had anything but a therapeutic
effect on her neighbors.

Moore contended that her up-
stairs tenants owned the howling
dog that provoked her neighbors.
In mid-June, the two men were ‘
evicted after they got rid or the
German Shepherd puppy.

MOORE SAID chemicals
recommended by the health de-
partment are being used in her
fenced-in yard to combat the-
sme'lls. '

A privacy fence erected be-
tween her property and the,
property behind her yard has
helped quiet the dos she said.

.zm as; - *

Enquirer photo BY GORDON MORIOKA

James Thamann, 4161 Linden
Ave., who lives in the house he-
hind Moore’s, filed the charge
against her. Anna Mae Thamann,

.James’ wife, said conditions have

improved, “but if we hadn’t taken
the action, we would have had to
put up with the barking dogs
again this summer as we did last
summer.

“We Just made up our minds
we wouldn’t put up with it,” she
said. “We couldn’t picnic in our
backyard because of the odor
from her yard.”

IN MAYOR’S court recently,
Moore pleaded not guilty to the
charge. _

From a courtroom filled with
about 20 neighbors, Mr. Thamann
and two others were selected to
testify against Moore. She
presented no witnesses except
herself. ’

Moore does not think she is
being treated fairly. She com-
plained she was not advised of her
rights in mayor’s court.

Healy contended Moore was
amply informed of her rights,
that she desired to act as her own
attorney and, rather than ques—
tion witnesses, she wanted to
make statements.

Whatever the prospects, Moore
saidﬁI am not going out without
some smoke behind me.” She con-
tended her civil rights and civil
libertieswere violated in the re-

 




NATIONAL ENQUIRER - July 13, 1982

 

\. *7

 

. ~ , . g I" . '
.
umh"‘w~ u < «I: - . M ‘II II ‘ ‘

Now That's One Pushy Poodle!

This proud poodle is really hard at work! Laura - visit people in nursing homes to help relieve their
shown here pushing trainer Nancy Part in the loneliness. Laura’s passenger Nancy is using her
Santa Rosa, Calif., Rose Festival Parade -- is one feet to help push because the parade was so long.
of five dogs being trained to push wheelchairs for Nancy works for Canine Companions for lnde-
the handicapped and elderly. The pooches also pendence, which trains the special dogs.

1 . lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllllllllllllllillllllllllllllllllllllililllllllllllllilllIllillllllllllllllllllllllillllllllllllIllllIllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllliilll

 

llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll

ﬂllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll5., ':

.1

l7

 




CINCINNATI ENQUIRER - July 9, 1982

. THE PLAIN DEALER. FRIDAY. JULY 9. 1982

 

Dogfighting defended as a

BATON ROUGE, La. (AP) -
Rural Louisiana legislators who
led the fight to de—fang an anti-
dogfight bill in the Louisiana
House claim the bloody sport is
“part of our heritage.” "

“It’s wrong to change a custom
close and dear to us,” said State
Rep. John John.

“There area lot worse things,”
said State Rep. Raymond (La La)
LaLonde, who pushed through an
amendment that gutted the anti-

“Hang in there, La La,” called

out State Rep. Margaret Lowen-
thal during the debate.

The amendment passed 45-41,

sending the bill back to the
Senate.

A large crowd of pit bull owners

from rural areas where dogfights
are popular applauded the vote.

The original bill said if anyone

warrant could be obtained im-
mediately. The dog could then be
checked by a veterinarian for
proof.

. The change was simple. It said
authorities had to prove that a
dog had been in a dogfight during
the 48 hours before it was picked
up. Practically speaking, it meant
that the only way anyone could
be arrested would be if they were
caught on the spot during a raid.

dogfight bill passed by the had reason to suspect that a dog ;

had been in an arena fight, a I

Senate.
I

Dogiig

BATON ROUGE, La. (AP)—Law-
makers from rural Louisiana who
led the fight to de-fang an anti-
dogfight bill in the state legisla-
ture say the bloody sport is “part
of a heritage.” '

“It’s wrong to change a custom
close and dear to us,” said state
Rep. John John of Crowley.

“There are a lot worse things,”
said Rep. Raymond “La La” La—
Londe of Sunset, who pushed
through a House amendment
Wednesday that” gutted an anti-
dogfight bill passed by the Senate.

“Hang in there, La La,” called
out Rep. Margaret Lowenthal of
Lake Charles during the debate.

The amendment passed the
House of Representatives on a
vote of 45—41 on Wednesday and
the bill went back to the Senate,
which approved the measure by a
vote of 36-0 on Thursday. -

A LARGE crowd of pit bull

owners from rural areas'where .
dogfights are popular applauded '»

loudly at Wednesday’s vote.

The original bill said if anyone '

had reason to suspect that a dog
had been in an arena fight, a war-
rant could be obtained immedi-

 

ting Called ia.

ately. The dog could then be
checked by a veterinarian for
proof.

The change was simple. It said
authorities had to prove that a dog
had been in a dogfight during the
48 hours before it was picked up.

Practically speaking, it meant
that the only way anyone could be

arrested would be if they were

caught on the spot during a raid.

Sen. Ted'Hickey of New Or-
leans, who wrote the bill, said he
thinks it will do the job “unless
the sheriffs play footsie with it
and don’t enforce it.”

LaLonde got strong support
from John, who said, “When you
go meddling with people, with a
way of life, and talking about put-
ting them in jail, you’re fooling
with things that are important,
meaningful for certain people.
Some things have been handed
down from our forefathers.

“They do fight dogs. It’s part of l

‘heritageg’

LaLonde got strong support
from John, who said, “When you
go meddling with pe0ple, with a
way of life, and talking about
putting them in jail, you’re fooling

.with things that are important,
meaningful for certain people.
Some things have been handed
down from our forefathers.

“They do fight dogs. It’s part
of a heritage they were raised
with, a thing they’re proud of.”

-‘Heritage’

a heritage they were raised with, a
thing they’re proud of . . . . It’s
wrong to change a custom close
and dear to us.”

THE AMENDMENT also would
delay the date that the bill would
become law, “sixty days to give the
owners time to sell their dogs,” La-
Londe said.

“We can really be proud,” Rep.
Peppi Bruneau of New Orleans
said sarcastically.

 




PITTSBURGH PRESS — July 18, 1982

After Millions Of Years Sea Turtles Are
Now Threatened Wi’rh Extinction

‘living Dinosaurs'

By Boris Weinfraub

National Geographic News Service

SEA TURTLES are not cuddly.
0n land, they look awkward.
When female turtles heave up onto
a beach to dig a nest and lay a
clutch of eggs, their laborious ef-
fort causes them to sigh, and tears
can be seen in their eyes.

Yet to those who study these
ungainly survivors of the age of the
dinosaurs, these reptiles whose
continued existence is in doubt, sea
turtles are an object of love.

“I am hooked on them body and
soul,” says Derek Green, after
studying sea turtles for seven years
in the Galapagos Islands.

“Here’s a living dinosaur in a
way,” says Jim Sternberg, research
associate with the Sea Turtle Res-
cue Fund. “These things have seen
the dinosaurs come and go, and
they’re still around. Imagine what
we can learn from them.”

“Even if I were a poet, I don’t
think I could explain it,” says John
G. Frazier, a National Zoological
Park research associate. “You’re
sitting on a beach in darkness, and
this animal that doesn’t look like it
belongs to this era comes out and
does something which you know is
primeval. I’m awe-struc

But the survival of sea turtles is
far from certain. Some turtle popu-
lations are slaughtered for their
food value or their shells. Others
drown in fishermen’s nets. The
beaches where they nest are de-
stroyed by development.

All species of sea turtles are
listed under either the U.S. Endan-
gered Species Act or under the
Convention on International Trade
in Endangered Species. The listings
make any trade in turtles or turtle
products illegal in this country.

The sea turtle species are:

J Loggerheads, the most com—
mon sea turtle in southeastern U.S.
coastal waters, so-called because
of their large heads; They usually
weigh 300 to 400 pounds, and popu-
lations are threatened in this coun-
try, largely because they are
caught in fishing nets.

J Hawksbills, mostly found in
the Caribbean and other warm
seas, and prized for their beautiful
shells. They weigh around 100
pounds, and are considered endan-
gered, a more serious status than
“threatened.”

J Leatherbacks, the largest sea
turtles, weighing from 650 to as
much as 1,500 pounds, and distin-
guished by their leathery shells.
They are found in the Atlantic as
far north as Nova Scotia, as far

south as South Africa, and are '

considered endangered because
their eggs are delicacies and their
nesting beaches are being
developed.

J Greens, found throughout the
world’s oceans, and valuable be-
cause their shells can be used for
jewelry, their skins for leather,
their bodies for meat and soup.
Greens weigh from 200 to 800
pounds; some populations are con-
sidered endangered, others threat-
ened. The East Pacific greens are
considered a different species by
some scientists.

J Olive Ridleys, found in the
Pacific, Atlantic and Indian oceans.
They weigh less than 100 pounds,
and have been harvested for leath-
er. The Mexican population is con-
sidered endangered, others
threatened.

Smallest And ﬂares!

J Kemp’s Ridleys, the smallest
turtle Species and the rarest; the
only known major nesting beach is
at Rancho Nuevo, Mexico. Like
Olive Ridleys, they nest en masse,
but the number of nesting females
has sharply declined because eggs
aresnatchedtobesoldasfoodor
as an aphrodisiac. They are listed
as endangered.

J Flatbacks, named for their
flatshells, and found only in Aus-
trahan waters. They commonly
weigh between 150 and 180 pounds.
Trade is banned because flatback
turtle products resemble those of

green turtles.

Though researchers have been
hard at work studying sea turtles,
mysteries remain. For example,
scientists have known for years
that sea turtles travel great dis-
tances, as far as several thousands
of miles, between nesting seasons.
Yet many females tend to return to
the same beaches, sometimes to
almost the same spot, time after
time.

What is the homing mechanism
that leads them there? Scientists
have several theories, but nothing
conclusive.

Research in recent years, in-
cluding work by Green in the Gala-
pagos, has suggested some turtle
populations don’t migrate at all but
instead reside in one area.

Most turtle research has been
conducted on nesting beaches. But
Green worked in the waters around
the Galapagos where green turtles
feed, studying males as well as
females. He captured many turtles
time after time, while others he
had tagged were turning up in
Costa Rico and Peru.

Green also made another poten-
tially major finding: turtles in the
wild grow at a far slower rate than
had been thought, based on evi~
dence from turtles raised in
captivity.

Measuring turtle shells, he
found that it would take turtles
more than 50 years to reach matu-
rity, not 8 to 12, as had been
estimated before.

“That means your problem of
managing the population becomes
much, much greater,” says Frazier,
who supports Green’s findings with
other recent data. “If a turtle takes
50 years to reach maturity, you
have an investment to guard for 50
years before it begins to reproduce

and increase its numbers again.”

Frazier has done research at a
Mexican slaughterhouse, part of a
fishery where nearly two million
Olive Ridleys have been killed
since the late 1960s.

He has assembled a new re-
search team to conduct a compre-
hensive study of turtles there with
an eye toward helping Mexican
authorities determine what rate of
killing, if any, should be allowed.

Clues In The Bones?

Among the things he wants to
learn is whether growth layers in
turtles’ bones can be used to deter-
mine their age, as the rings of a
tree help determine its age.

“We have no way of setting up
demographic studies until we can
determine a turtle’s age,” Frazier
says. “And until we have in—depth
demographic studies, we can’t
manage the population.”

But he has been frustrated be-
cause the Mexican government has
not permitted him to do the work.
The slaughterhouse is partly owned
and Operated by the Mexican
government.

Many pe0ple, such as shrimp
fishermen who are annoyed when
turtles turn up in their nets or
beach-goers who happen upon an
area where turtles are digging
their nests, may think that the
sizable numbers of turtles indicate
a population revival.

But Sternberg of the Sea Turtle
Rescue Fund disagrees.

“Because we have a good-sized
population is not to say that it’s
safe,” he says. “Turtles have been
around a number of millions of
years. It would be ironic if they
were to disappear within the next

.,.,.e*—n¢ Mn» ~ "\emy‘ua .~

Pacific Ridley sea turtles drag themselves across a California beach. Unhindered by
sightseers or predators, they’ll each lay more than 100 eggs in sandy nests.

THE PITTSBURGH PRESS ROTC 7.18082

 




PITTSBURGH POST-GAZETTE - July 15, 1982

 

Beware all ra

this, raccoomi

Backyard gardeners use traps

By Dave Drakula

It’s always frustrating for the backyard gardener
when a family Of rabbits or woodchucks mow down his
beans or a family Of raccoons decides to harvest the
sweet corn before he does.

That’s when the local game protector’s phone starts
to.'.gyrate and gardners demand, “What can I do?”

"Although it may not be help this year, just where a

garden is located is a big factor and involves the first -

axiom of wildlife management - the quality of cover
determines the abundance of wildlife. What that means
is the poorer the quality of cover around a garden, the
less problem you’ll have with wildlife. A small garden
in the middle Of a large, clean-cut lawn would have
relatively few problems because rabbits, racéoons and
woodchucks don’t like tO venture across tOO much Open
space. The same garden planted along the backside Of
the lawn against a row Of hedges is in for trouble.

Controlling pests boils down to shooting, which is
Often prohibited by local ordinances, taking them in a
steel trap or capturing them in a live trap. In most
instances, the live trap will prove the most humane and
effectivemethod since it requires much less skill than
properly setting a leg-hold trap.

{The initial part cost Of a coon-size live trap is about
$40. That may seem expensive, but if you spread the
cost over the years of service you’ll get from a trap, it’s
rather economical. You might be able to borrow a trap,
but you’re better Off owning your own.

What bait can you use for trapping garden pests?

At this time Of the year there is no pressure on the
pests for food. Rabbits will ignore the most expensive
apple you can buy, for instance. The best thing to do is
to make what trappers call a “blind set.” This means
that you study the cover around your garden and find
out where the pests are traveling. Set the trap in the
most traveled spot, and if you’re lucky, they’ll walk
right into it.-

:If there are no good locations for a blind set, using.

two-foot chicken wire, put a drift fence along the most
vulnerable side Of the garden. When a chuck or rabbit
hits the fence, they’ll drift along it to get around it and
walk right into your trap. A little obstruction placed by

 

Outdoors

the trap will ensure the critter goes into it, instead Of
around it. p ,
Speaking Of fences, a two- Or three-foot chicken wire

 

fence, well secured along the bottom, will keep out

rabbits and woodchucks. To keep out raccoons, you will
need a hot wire along the side as an outrigger, or above
the top. If they do dig under, at least you’ll have a good
spot at which to trap them. ‘ '

A well-located blind set live trap will catch every
animal small enough to fit through the trap, including
the neighbor’s cat and the inevitable skunk. ~

What do you do with a skunk in a trap? Wildlife
biologist Paul Kelsey suggests this method.

“Take a large canvas or black plastic and walk
slowly toward the trap, holding the material in front Of
you as a shield. If the skunk begins to take offense,
humping its back and stamping its front feet, back Off
and give him a chanCe to calm down. Common sense
says to keep your guard up.

“Upon reaching the trap, cautiously lower the canVas
or plastic cover over the trap. To move the skunk, place
a box at'the end of the trap, Open the trap door so the
skunk can see the security'of the dark box. Close the
box and gently ’carrysit to the point of release. Just as
gently, Open the box and let him walk out in his own
good time.” 1 '

Kelsey said it works but he’snot willing to assume
responsibility for dry cleaning bills.

Q 0 0

Notes - Pennsylvania fishing licenses will cost
more in 1983. The price of a resident license is
scheduled to go from $9 to $12. Non-resident fees will
increase from $14 to $20 . . . The Western Pennsylvania
Conservancy recently purchased a 173-acre tract in the
Hicks Run area of Cameron County. The land is in an
area frequented by the elk herd and will be resold to the
Department Of Environmental Resources at cost
The Pa. Game Commission will meet at the Holiday Inn
in State College at 8:30 am, Wednesday, August 11.
The meeting is Open to the public.

 

Rabbits frustrate home gardeners.




ll CZ MN The Commercial Appeal, Memphis, Thursday, July 15, 1982

Cheryl Tiegs, stitchers smile .
on project to help animals:

Do-it-yourself, dog-loving Cheryl Tiegs-worship-
pers, your time has come. ' .
You can sew, you can make a contribution to the

American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals (ASPCA), and you can dream that Miss Tiegs

is smiling kindly upon you -— all for $3.
And all at the same time. .-
It seems Miss Tiegs has volunteered her time and

smile to a promotion sponsored by Vogue/Butterick . -
Patterns. Mary Fotherby, publicist for the pattern weeks. The high-fashion model’s aid, plus the idea of .'
company, said Miss Tiegs is helping Vogue because saving puppies and kittens from pain and suffering,
Vogue is giving royalties on its Pattern No. 8342 to the has led to the pattern’s being “ranked among our best
ASPCA. . sellers. It has sold incredibly well,” according to the ':
Pattern No. 8342 is actually patterns for‘two toys, publicist. However, she said it will be another five :
one a dog and one a cat. The dog looks something like months before Vogue can say how much money the 1;
a terrier and stands 201/2 inches high and stretches 26 ASPCA will get. .. :
inches from the nose to the tip of its tail. The cat is 15 Whatever the sum, Vogue/Butterick probably...»i
inches long, not including its tail. (As with most cats, could treble its donation by scrapping the dog and
the toy’s pattern has the tail curled around a resting cat pattern, and offering a realistic version of Miss

tabby, so it shouldn’t count, anyway). Tiegs. .
Both, when sewn from a fur-like fabric and The money could even be diverted to the Fund

stuffed with polyester fiberfill, are supposed to be for the Re-education of Otherwise Liberated Men ';

realistic and cuddly. ' Who Revert to Pure-Grade Chauvinism When Con-
Something like Miss Tiegs. ' fronted by Pictures of Models Such As Cheryl Tiegs.

 

The promotion has been running for about six The FROLMWRPGCWCPMSACT needs help, too.

 




Kenneth Mahood

New Scientist 3O july I98!

 

Wildlife bill: bad law, good lobbying

 

The Wildlife and Countryside Bill has limped to a conclusion as parliament disperses. The bill has
been sadly mauled; but the conservationists who backed it are ready for the next ﬁght

 

Catherine Caufield “It will be a quiet bill with a few
mavericks on either side." The
government ofﬁcial who described the Wildlife and Coun-
tryside Bill this way must be in line for this year’s Richard
M. Nixon Inoperative Statement Award.

With the bill’s ﬁnal reading in the House of Lords in
October still to come, it has already consumed more than
200 hours of parliamentary time, been the subject of three
leaders in The Times and over 2000 amendments and been
threatened with blocking by the opposition on the advice
of the voluntary conservation groups who found it worse
than useless. It has also caused a wide, and rather bitter,
debate on the supposedly non-political subject of protection
of the British countryside.

So why did this “quiet bill”, whose innocent and wholly
admirable aim was “to improve the protection afforded to
wildlife and natural habitats”, fail so utterly to satisfy the
movement whose interests it was claimed to be advancing?
And what has come out of this parliamentary marathon?

When the last general election was called in April 1979,
the Labour government’s own Wildlife and Countryside
Bill was among a number of pieces of legislation that had
almost completed their parliamentary passage. However, in
its case (unlike some others) the whips had not agreed to
rush the bill through its remaining stages “on the nod”,
and so it was lost. Labour’s bill, however, had addressed
itself only to protection of individual species and did not
deal with the more fundamental problem of protecting the
natural habitats essential to the breeding and feeding of
native species. The new Conservative government had to
introduce its own bill to meet obligations arising from ﬁve
international agreements: the EEC Bird Directive; the
Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species
(CITES); the Ramsar Convention on Wetlands; the Conven-
tion on the Conservation of Migratory Species; and the
Berne Convention on the Conservation of European Wild-
life and Natural Habitats.

In a move which with hindsight looks like a mistake, the
Department of the Environment decided to deal with these
disparate obligations in a single piece of legislation, throw-
ing in for good measure an assortment of provisions deal-
ing with matters ranging from the legal status of the
Countryside Commission to the vexed question of bulls on

public footpaths. The resulting bill was a white elephant
with something for everyone to object to.

And object they did. In its ﬁrst outing, at the House 'of
Lords beginning last November, the bill received an un.
precedented number of amendments: over 1000. Tacticany,
indeed, to start the bill out in the House of Lords was the
government’s second mistake. As one government MP rue-
fully admitted, “We sent it there ﬁrst because the depart.
ment had had two major bills in the last session and we
thought we could save time . . . We didn’t realise that it
would get so bogged down there.”

The expertise and interest in wildlife and countryside
matters in the Lords, combined with the less pressured
timetable in the upper house, meant that the bill got a
thorough going over. It also meant that the voluntary
bodies had a chance to lobby and build up interest in the
bill among peers, and among the public. Parliamentary
correspondents, always on the look-out for an “eccentric

. peer” story, grabbed at the chance to report on Lord

Masserene and Ferrard’s anecdotes about country life, or
late night debates on the status of bats in Britain. Millions
of listeners to Radio 4’s Yesterday in Parliament, dressed
to the sound of Lord Houghton describing the horrors of
snares or Lord Craigton leading a backbench revolt to
force the government to accept marine nature reserves.
The Sunday papers printed maps of the valuable habitats
that were being destroyed by agriculture, with comments
from conservationists that the bill was too weak to stop
the devastation. The ,government didn’t budge on any of
the major points, but it didn’t look good either. “If we had
gone to the Commons ﬁrst we would have whipped it
through before any of the conservation groups had a
chance to get organised,” a Tory MP said wistfully.

But, though public pressure was mounting for the bill
to provide effective protection for] the countryside, the
government conceded only on minor and technical points.
All parties repeatedly stressed that conservation is not a
party political issue, but the lesson of this bill is that it is
just that. The highly urbanised citizens of this small
crowded island arguably have a deeper sense of attach-
ment to the countryside. There is no more political issue
than how and for whose beneﬁt the land shall the used.

One reason that conservation has not been seen as a

 

‘ r
.‘0

’ ‘
r 4.1- a
’p’ I. 0

0

its, .2;-

1';
'.

' ,.- ‘
lief, '.

., .7':. . ,
' . ﬁlth-A. a. .o‘I-ﬁvcjil'AOJ/é'ﬁir‘g/t‘oxruin"?

Substantial landowne'rs Whitelaw and Pym—“more protective of farmers than the NFU”

party political subject is that
until recently the Conserva-
tives were the only party
concerned with countryside
issues. The heart of the Tory
party, the land—owning aris-
tocracy and the farming
community, were indeed the
guardians of our natural
heritage.

Since the last war ~the
nature of agriculture in
Britain has changed dram-
atically. More often than
not the new methods of in-
tensive farming are incom-
patible with our most
valuable natural habitats,
.which need diversity and
stability. The aims and re-
quirements of agriculture
have become split from

 




New Scientist 30 july I 98 i

'

those of conservation. But this split is only beginning to be
reﬂected in the composition of the ofﬁcial bodies responsible
for protecting our natural environment. Only recently has
the balance between landowners and ecologists on the
governing council of the NCC changed in favour of ecolo-
gists.

The NCC has done its duty to conservation in the case
of the bill by stating publicly that statutory controls are
necessary to ensure that all sites of special scientiﬁc
interest—SSSIs—will have adequate protection. However,
the anomaly of appointing landowners to decide public
policy on nature conservation continues to give rise to
potential conﬂicts of interest.

The interests of farmers and landowners are rep-
resented in the present government at the highest level.
During the passage of this bill these individuals were often
less open to change than were the National Farmers’
Union (NFU) or the Country Landowners Association
(CLA). For example, having lost the ﬁght for statutory
powers to deal with landowners or. occupiers who wilfully
destroy valuable natural habitats, conservationists lobbied
for a system of reciprocal notiﬁcation under which the

NCC would apprise farmers of any 88813 on their land (as

now is NCC practice), and of which operations would be
likely to damage those 85818. In return, farmers would
inform the NCC before carrying out any of the speciﬁed
operations, so that the NCC might consult with and advise
them of the likely consequences. At most this would only

295

delay a farmer from doing what he wanted—for three
months. Many landowners and farmers supported this sug-
gestion. A number of Tory MP5 on the committee favoured
the idea, including Sir Marcus Kimball—who years ago
introduced a private member’s bill to require reciprocal
notiﬁcation. Kimball said that reciprocal notiﬁcation would
“round the bill off and make the voluntary code work”.
Environment ministers pressed hard for the government to
concede on reciprocal notiﬁcation and the NFU was pre-
pared to accept such a principle. The sticking point was the
secret cabinet committee dealing with the bill which was
headed by William Whitelaw and included Francis Pym,
both substantial landowners. A source close to the commit-
tee stated, “it’s the landowners on the cabinet committee,
especially Pym, who are sticking on this point; they’re
more protective of farmers than NFU is”.

Thus does the protection of.nature become a political
issue: politicians are obliged to juggle the demands of
different interest groups rather than to follow the most
scientiﬁcally sound course of action. Marine nature re-
serves provide another example. Here the demands of

many government departments—trade, industry, agricul-.

ture, ﬁsheries and food, and environment—had to be

' coordinated.

In fact the department~ representing the interests of
conservation, in whose name the reserves would be estab-
lished, got short shrift on many issues. This is politics, not
conservation.

 

Part I of the bill, which is concerned
with species protection, is the most
satisfactory section in conservationist
eyes, but it still leaves something to be
desired. It outlaws certain methods of
killing birds and expands the list of
species that receive special protection—1
though the EEC considers that the condi-
tions under which licenses may be
granted for killing protected species are
“wider than the Bird Directive permits”.
The House of Lords banned shooting on
Sunday and the killing of curlews and
redshanks, but the government reversed

Robert Smith/Ardea

. 'A I‘

. ._ 1",5
‘ " ¢ 2‘},
7.2"" ‘x 3'
43;; mg;

“1"." '~ )~', ‘ V). I,’ _ ' ‘
x' . .2 , ., ,', - . ‘ a ‘3‘ _
. ‘._ ; . '
o r'g.” .‘ ‘t ’ ‘ 'gz” ‘ ,
‘

Curlew and redshank—almo

The Wildlife bill — species, habitats and bulls on the l'oose

"

- won, . _ pl 42" . ' "
. .. _ ‘ , I
' «'9 .L ' r , . '
.. 4 M" , J, r ‘ - '
.y - .
’1 ~ ' " : ’1‘ . v, “
. :u ‘1 ,1
.. : .. I . .
, , e; I.
‘.
s I
. t , ‘5 , .
I
e a‘ -
u

9 «iv

t saved by their Lordships

 

 

these amendments in the Commons. Con-
servationists also failed to get the sys-
tem of “reverse listing”——under which
all species are deemed to be protected
unless they are speciﬁcally listed—ex-

tended from birds to mammals, reptiles

and amphibians. The government also
failed to deliver on a promise that it
would forbid the import of any en-
dangered species without proof that the
animal had been raised on a farm or
ranch.

Part II dealt with habitat protection,
the issue at the heart of the bilL Conser-
vationists, including the government’s
statutory advisors on nature conserva-
tion, the Nature Conservancy Council
(NCC), believe that the government’s
introduction. of a voluntary code will not
be effective in halting the destruction of
valuable wildlife habitats. They pressed
for a reserve power to enable the Sec-

retary of State to stop landowners or'

farmers from transgressing the volun-
tary code. Instead the 'bill provides for
an extra measure of protection for only
40 or 50 so—called super-SSSIs in which
the Secretary of State will be able to
delay destruction for 12 months in the
hope that the farmer will change his

mind. However the government did con-
cede on one essential point: SSSI owners
who want to carry out certain speciﬁed
damaging operations on their land, must
ﬁrst notify the NCC of their intentions,
after which there is a three months
negotiation period before the owner may
proceed. ‘

Moorlands in national parks will re-
ceive no special protection despite re-
cent evidence that their plight is more
serious than had previously been real-
ised (see New Scientist, vol 90, p 1255).
National Parks authorities will, however,
(following a last-minute concession from
the government) have a duty to monitor

lohn Tooham

interest?

the rate of moorland damage.

The most dramatic improvement in the
bill was .the Lords’ amendment providing
for the establishment of marine nature
reserves. The government tried to
weaken this substantially in the Com—
mons but was forced to accept the main
points of the Lords’ version.

Another Lords’ amendment was re-
versed in the Commons. The Sandford
amendment, which required the Minis-
try of Agriculture to give grants for pur-
poses of conservation and rural regenera-
tion as well as for agricultural produc-
tivity, .was watered down. Now MAFF
ofﬁcials need “exercise their functions so
as to further conservation” only in so far
as may be consistent with the aim of
increased production.

In Part III of the bill the most controver-
sial" issue was the government’s deter-
mination to allow beef bulls to run
loose on public footpaths. The Ramblers’
Association sees this part of the bill as
“utter rubbish”, but it did manage to
defeat the government on the question
of whether citizens will have a right of
appeal to the Secretary of State when a
local authority decides to close a foot-
path. El

 

 

l. B. & S. Bottomley/Ardea

 




C

296

New Scientist 30 july I 98!

 

At the outset of the bill few conservationists believed
that they would be able to change it substantially, though
they all felt that it was inadequate on many counts and a
step backwards on several others—including procedures
for licensing farmers to kill protected species and for
dealing with closure of footpaths. But a number of back-
bench revolts in the House of Lords raised the conserva-
tionists’ hopes—revolts on such issues as banning shooting
on Sundays, removing curlews, redshanks and bartailed
godwits from the list of birds that can be shot, and (a
major embarrassment for the government) insistence on
including marine nature reserves. The adoption .of the
Sandford amendment also whetted the appetites of con-
servationists for victory: this allowed funds from the
Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries, and Food (MAFF) to
be used for purposes other than increasing agricultural
production—purposes such as conservation and rural
crafts. The narrow losses on statutory protection for moor-
land in national parks and for 88815 were also encouraging.

When the bill reached the more strictly disciplined Com-
mons, however, conservationists realised anew what they
were up against. In the face of an unyielding government
with a large majority of obedient backbench MPs they

were powerless, despite increasing evidence of the popu- '

larity of their cause. Many MPs were getting 40 to 50
letters a week about the bill. Denis Howell, the opposition’s
spokesman on the bill “has had more letters on this than
on abortion law reform, Europe, or anything else,” said
Howell’s personal secretary, Patrick Cheney. Tom King,
the junior environment minister responsible for the bill,
acknowledged that it has been of special concern to the
public, saying that a number of MPs had told him that they
“have had more correspondence on this bill in the last ﬁve
months than on unemployment, the economy and what
other people outside might consider to be the major poli-
tical issues of the day.”

Still conservationists were hopeful. The opposition was
sympathetic to their stance .and throughout the passage of
the bill, was closely guided by lobbyists from the voluntary
groups. This gave opponents of the government’s proposals
access to the one available weapon—the manipulation of
parliamentary time. With a lot of important business to
get through before the recess the government was
especially sensitive to threats of all-night sittings that
would disrupt the ﬁnely-balanced timetable. ‘Most- groups
felt that the bill had so many deﬁciencies that it would
be better to lose it altogether than to accept a measure
which would allay public fears by giving the impression
of protecting the countryside, while in effect reafﬁrming
the right of farmers to do as they pleased on their land.
So the opposition threatened to block the bill if the govern-
ment did not at least meet the scaled-down demands of the
conservation bodies. The government outmanoeuvred the
opposition, however, by buying its good behaviour with
unkept promises that various amendments would be con-
sidered, principles upheld and spirits observed. By the time
the opposition realised that the government’s responses,
were not going to be satisfactory, the bill was as good as
through its committee stage.

The time card was played again, more successfully, at
report stage earlier this month when, because of calls for
an emergency debate on the riots, the government made
a number of concessions designed to ensure a smooth and
brief debate on the ﬂoor of the house (including giving in
on reciprocal notiﬁcation). -

The voluntary groups have beneﬁted from their alliance
with the Labour party during this bill and the opposition
promises to take up the conservationists cause with a
vengeance. Gerald Kaufman, shadow environment see
retary, regards this issue as absolutely crucial. “I would
hope,” he told New Scientist, “to bring in a major country-
side bill, not in the ﬁrst, but in the second session of

parliament.” But few conservationists believe that a
Labour government’s ﬁrst priority will be to provide statu-
tory protection for $8815 and moorland in national parks.
“The next government will have a lot of other things to do
ﬁrst,” says Tony Jones, assistant secretary for the Council
for Protection of the Rural Environment. And one Labour
MP struck an ominous note when he told a representative
of one of the voluntary groups who was discussing the
bill’s drawbacks and looking forward to legislation under
a Labour government, “don’t bank on it; this could be the
last major bill for 15 or 20 years”. ~

In terms of legislative results the Wildlife and Country-
side Bill has been a disappointment; in other terms it has
been a major success. “This is the ﬁrst time we’ve really
gone for what we want instead of just taking what they
handed us,” says Tim Sands of the Royal Society for Nature
Conservation. “During the last big bill, in 1968, the volun-
tary group’s weren’t big or organised enough to handle a
major lobbying exercise; now we’re more professional.”
Patrick Cheney agrees: “I’ve been here when the biggest
multinationals in Europe have been spending thousands of
pounds on their lobbying efforts and the briefs of the en-
vironmental groups on this bill have been better than
theirs, more speciﬁc, more direct.” In addition, in the words
of Denis Howell, “there is a new consciousness that you
cannot protect species unless you protect habitat. That is a
dramatic change of thinking.”

“The one good thing to come out of this bill,” according
to Labour MP Peter Hardy, “has been the evidence that
the voluntary groups are capable of lobbying effectively
and of mobilising their support throughout the country.
But they still don’t fully realise their capacity to stir up the
country on these issues.” Supporting Hardy’s claim is a
Gallup poll commissioned by the Daily Telegraph which
asked voters to state what they felt a government should
do. In second place,4'with a rank of 77 per cent, was
“making more efforts to protect the countryside”.

‘Conservation is a political issue’

On their ﬁrst time out on a bill of this size the voluntary
bodies have learned a few tricks. “Next time,” says Charles
Secrett, the wildlife campaigner for .Friends of the Earth,
“we won’t encourage sympathetic government MPs to
speak out at second reading. Several did this time and not
one of them was selected to be on the committee.” Andrew
Bennett, a Labour MP who was on the committee, said
that conservationists should cultivate MPs, especially those
with urban fringe constituencies. Peter Melchett, who lead
the opposition in the Lords, pointed to three things to be
learnt from the experience of this bill. “Apartfrom pack-
ing the cabinet with members of your organisation, there
is no substitute for popular support. So voluntary bodies
should continue to work on building up their membership
ﬁgures. Secondly, it is important to make your demands in
advance of the government’s offering, rather than just
reacting to government proposals. For that it is essential
that all the interest groups involved in the countryside
keep working together. And lastly, they must recognise
that conservation is a political issue and learn to formulate
their demands to get the most from the party in power.”

The Wildlife and Countryside Bill has been a coming—of-
age for conservation in Britain, particularly for the volun-
tary groups who more and more will be acting as watch-
dogs on government and private landowners. They have
impressed MP5, peers, civil servants and journalists alike
with their efﬁcient and intelligent lobbying, and with the
strength of public feeling which they have marshalled to
serve their cause. They are now a force to be reckoned
with, which they were not at the start of the bill. Whether
all this will cut any ice with government policy-makers
or MP5 faced with a three—line whip is still a moot point.
We must await the next battle of Westminster. Cl

 




.. . .
O . . .

Lead has been added to petrol for sixty years as a means of
improving the octane rating. it is said to produce better
performance and efﬁciency in cars and to act as an effective
anti-knocking device. The direct consequence of leaded petrol
is that 10,000 tonnes of lead is annually pushed into Britain’s
air. Evidence of the extent of lead pollution in cities and of its
damaging effect on children’s health now appears overwhelm-
ing. “More children suffer from lead poisoning each year than
lead-industry workers — and more die”. The British
Government announced that it intended to reduce the
maximum permitted lead content in petrol from the upper limit
of 0.40 grammes per litre, to the lower limit of0. 15 g/l. Mr Tom
King, speaking in the House of Commons, said this would
reduce by about two-thirds lead emissions from cars some ten
years earlier than any other practicable method. However,

since the new limit will be introduced “not later than 1985” the
assertion appears somewhat watery.

 

Welfare warrantees

Good news for rabbits. They have ﬁnally earned a place in the
Welfare State and can expect a measure of security as farming
organisations, scientists and agriculturalist ponder their quality
of life, and examine the proposals for a code of recommend-
ations drafted by the Farm Animal Welfare Council.

The provisional code, which applies to commercially grown
rabbits, is open to suggestions of revision from the public. Pigs,
domestic fowls, turkeys and cattle already receive consider-
ation from similar codes. Ducks must sit out their turn until
later this year.

Farm Animal Welfare Council.

"RSPB News

Heron versus trout. The lives of thousands of herons could be
saved as a result of a research project by the Royal Society for
the Protection of Birds. Ofﬁcials at the society were shocked to
ﬁnd that more than 3,000 herons are shot each year at Britain’s
trout farms.

The heron is a protected species. There are only 5,500 pairs in
England and Wales and even fewer after hard winters. But on
the larger of Britain’s 250 farms, where it takes advantage of the
easy pickings from densely stocked pools, the heron has
become the number one enemy.

A research biologist who has spent two years, though,
studying the problem of these predations has suggested several
simple yet effective defence measures. Methods of deterrence
include putting strands of twine around the pools, floating
chains of polyethelene blocks, or building sufﬁciently steep
banks to scupper the herons’ ﬁshing attempts. A smaller
ﬁnancial outlay, no doubt, than bullets.

 

 

Home for whoopers. The RSPB has bought Loch of Spiggie,
Shetland, as its latest reserve. The purchase, made with the
assistance of the World Wildlife Fund, also includes part of the
adjacent Loch of Brow. The area is an important wintering site
for wildfowl, supporting the largest flocks of whooper swans
and duck in Shetland.

 

.1 Trapping terns. Children playing on West African beaches are
to blame for the decline in the numbers of one of Britain’s rarest
seabirds, the Roseate tern.

The children trap the birds for fun in snares or with nylon
lines baited with ﬁsh, according to ornithologist Euan Dunn.

in the mid-sixties there were 3,500 pairs of the elegant seabird
breeding in Britain, but now that ﬁgure has dropped to fewer
than 1,000 pairs, almost the whole of the European population.

\jOLﬁ' i “f- ” L’fJ/AU Cf (1,." :1 .,

 

system because it triggers hormones”

in comparison toconventional artiﬁcial lighting (incandescent
or ﬂuorescent), full- -spectrum light reduces fatigue, improves
productivity and seems to enhance visual acuity. Recently
photobiologists reported other effects including increased milk
yields (10-15 per cent in dairies) and treatment of psoriasis and
herpes simplex. Under the lights 200 animals were found to have
received a boost to fertility.
Leading Edge Bulletin.

Biological fleecing is in full swing. Australian biotechnologists
have developed a protein which makes the wool fall off sheep.
The robot industry there, which has been developing
automated ways of shearing the country’s 135 million sheep, is
expected to protest.

Guardian.

 

 

MAFF saves energy

Energy saving in Agriculture will be the Ministry’s major theme
at this year’s Royal Show. As an increasingly scarce and
expensive resource (British agriculture uses energy equivalent
to 5 million gallons of petrol per day) energy may be saved on
farms by developing and adopting practices which are cost
effective and which avoid waste. A central display at the show
will illustrate the main uses of energy on farms and highlight
areas where savings may be achieved without loss of efﬁciency.
The Cultivation Section will show the energy requirements of
various cultivation practices and how well-drained soil, correct
gear selection and machine setting can lower that requirement.
Energy losses due to poorly insulated buildings will be costed
out, and another section will point to some of the alternative
sources of energy, including biogas, which may be available to
farmers in the future.

MAFF

 

I

North-south dialogue

The North-South dialogue was launched in the wake of the
world-wide economic crisis which followed the sudden oil price
rise of 1973. In its recently published communication to the
Council, the European Communities Commission asserts that
at the time when the dialogue was first being set up “the nature
and scope of the crisis were generally underestimated”.

In the light of this, and in preparation for a series of
international meetings scheduled for the rest of the year, aimed
at opening a “global” North-South dialogue, the Commission
has set forth guidelines for Community policy and action. The
Commission’s paperurges the Community to take the initiative
in deﬁnining a new relationship between the wealthy countries
and developing countries based on negotiation and contractual
arrangements. This relationship would cover fields such as
industrialisation, food supply, stable commodity prices, ‘energy
and the recycling of oil revenues. These policies will be adopted
by the Community in the discussion of the international
economic situation at the forthcoming Western summit in
Ottawa in July, the Mexico Summit on the findings of the
Brandt Report in October, and the UN Global Negotiations
and future talks in GATT, UNCTAD, the IMF and World
Bank.

Speciﬁc aspects of North-South relations will also be dealt
with at the Nairobi Conference on new and renewable energy
sources in August and the Parish Conference on the least
developed countries in September.

European Communities Commission.

 

chemi
for th
“limit
intr o m
partic

Th ‘-
from:
CN D.

 




New Scientist 2: july :98:

 

 

O

Wildlife and
political muscle

Tam Dalyell MP

HEIR EMOTION was one of sub-

I dued shock and outrage. The dedi-

cated young and able people had
worked hard and long for politicians of
all parties. They had been unstinting in
their efforts during the meandering of
the Wildlife and Countryside Bill through
both houses, since mid-December 1980.
Legitimate pressure groups had been
ever-present in Westminster as clauses
affecting their concerns came up for de-
bate. Even MP5 on the committee who
were critical of “fringe pressure groups”
developed a new respect for the conser-
vation and farming interests that these
young lobbyists represented.

80 what was the cause of the outrage?
That many “improvements” in the bill,
helpful to the cause of wildlife and
countryside had been ﬂatly turned
down? No! Even before the report stage
of the bill on the ﬂoor of the House,
the government itself tabled amend-
ments giving the opposition and the pres-
sure groups most of what they sought.

 

 

ITS THE PLACE WHERE. THE _
WH IPS Fouan rr our OVER 1741:.
WILDLIFE BILL].

The jewel in their gains was the exten-
sion of the Sandford principle on giving
funds from the Ministry of Agriculture,
Fisheries and Food to sites of special
scientiﬁc interest (SSSI)—-—and not only
to national parks. Then there was
reciprocity of notiﬁcation to the Nature
Conservancy Council in changes affect-
ing hedges, ponds, coppices and other
habitats in 88815; more protection
against the ploughing up of Moorland; a
better system of restoring ploughed—up-
public footpaths; and the framework for
the establishment of meaningful marine
nature reserves.

Joyous news, it might be supposed?
One of the few occasions when the ex-
ceedingly powerful and well—organised,
Ministry of Agriculture has suffered a
defeat in Whitehall? Yes. But, and this
is the source of the outrage. How did
this relatively happy outcome actually
occur? By argument in the House of
Lords, with an outstanding, sustained

 

R

critique by Peter Melchett and his team,
dealing with a record number of amend-
ments, and requiring their often elderly
lordships to return to the fray, after
their dinner hour? No, alas. By consider-
able application in over 100 hours of
debate in the Commons? An enormous
work load fell on Denis Howell, Ted
Graham, Alan McKay, Andrew Bennett,
Peter Hardy, Ken Marks, and myself on
the Labour side. Likewise many know-
ledgeable government supporters, John
Farr, Marcus Kimball, and John Mackay,
helped to add to the fantastic amount of
brieﬁng which the minister involved,
Hector Monro, had to undertake.
Sadly all this was, I fear, only a con-
tributory factor in changing 'the
government’s attitude to the law. The
crunch came when the opposition chief
whip, Michael Cocks, with Gerald Kauf-
man and Denis Howell, confronted the
government chief whip, Michael Jopling,
with the possibility of the opposition talk-
ing and talking, and causing yet further
slippage in the government’s taut time-
table. Crudely put, if the opposition did
not get what it wanted, for honourable
reasons, out of the government, we
would talk past midday each day of re-
pOrt stage, and lose the following day’s
parliamentary business—which would be
the Finance Bill or, in all probability
pressing discussion on the riots. Faced
with this force majeure, government
business managers would happily give
us Sandford, SSSIs, Moorland, footpaths
and marine reserves.

The effectiveness of crude political
muscle, rather than the hard work and
sweat of argument, and the toil of pre-
paration during parliamentary recesses,
was What shocked the young people of
the conservation groups. But maybe they
have learned one of the eternal verities
of politics—that stamina and determina-
tion often win ‘ an argument where
eloquence and logic has yielded few re—
sults, and that in Britain, denying a
government parliamentary time and
room for manoeuvre before deadlines is
the most effective way of altering bills.
I am told by one of the very senior
clerks of the House of Commons that he
does not remember a major government
bill, put forward by a government with
a substantial majority, which has been so
materially altered by the time it came
out of the parliamentary sausage
machine. [3

Fire bird: act 2

THE STUTTGART BALLET may be

one of the world’s best teams of
dancers, but its attitude to safety verges
on the cavalier. Since ~ our snippet
(Forum, 25 June, p 859) about the ballet
falling foul of London’s ﬁre laws, we
have discovered that the group was in-
formed way back in 1974 that the
material it uses for its scenery is not ac-
ceptable in London. The Stuttgart
dancers like to perform in front of
a ﬂimsy gauze on which is sprayed latex
rubber: it may look attractive but, accord-

 

U

ing to the London Fire Brigade, it con-
stitutes a ﬁne bomb. “One spark from a
cigarette could cause ignition,” said a
spokesman. “Even if we had two ﬁre
appliances in the audience, we wouldn’t
be able to do anything, the stuff is so
inﬂammable."

For its June performances of Swan
Lake at the Coliseum, the ballet dancers
brought the scenery from Germany-—
even though they knew the Greater
London Council’s safety officers disap-
proved. Perhaps they hoped that, in the
absence of suitable substitutes, they
would get away with using the props.
This is what happened in the troupe’s
previous performances in London when
it wriggled through the regulations and
subjected audiences to a huge ﬁre risk.
In June, however, the safety ofﬁcers
stuck to their guns and the show had to
be hastily rearranged: paying customers,
who forked out £6 or more for tickets,
lost out. . _

In the light of this new knowledge,
will the Stuttgart Ballet reimburse
patrons with a proportion of their ticket
money, to compensate for the reduced
standard of its performance—which was
entirely its own fault? If you were in
the audience, you should perhaps inquire
c/o The Coliseum, St Martin’s Lane,
London WC2.

 

1, , " ' v \

Beating the
university cuts
Richard Fiﬁeld

EACTIONS TO THE CUTS and

recommendations orchestrated by

the University Grants Committee
(UGC) are just beginning to ﬁlter back
from Mendip College, Somerset’s only
university at Farrington Stoke. The letter
outlining the cuts was late in reaching
the acting principal Martin Compton. He
told New Scientist that the letter had
been misaddressed to him at nearby
Stoke Farrington, and that unfortunately
the post ofﬁce there had been closed for
summer holidays. All was well last
Monday morning, though, when postman

 

 

Thrubwell cycled over with the news and l

M

 

David Strong

 




Fourteen

THE PITEOUS PETA

 

Contrary to popular myth, the
modern dairying industry
produces a potentially

dangerous pinta whose creation

involves the systematic torture
and constant abuse of the
innocent mother and baby cow,
whose compliant nature is at the
heart of the fantasy. And
Pharmacist Giles doesn’t do
much for the land, either.
Marion Shoard, Susan
Marling, Alan Long and
Kathleen Jannaway report

1*

BLESSED
VIRGIN
MARIGOLD

Alan Long explodes a few
veterinary myths

 

- —-..\

 

 

Four centuries ago Shakespeareused the plight of the cow and
her calf to illustrate a paradigm of man’s remorselessness. That
plight has been worsened in the ruthlessness of modern farming
methods, for intensification has overtaken dairying as much as
the production of pigs and poultry. .

The bellowing and bleating of cow and calf at their
premature separation are country sounds shrugged off or
dismissed in heartless asides by a species clever in many respects
yet never so grown up as to wean itself from the cow’s udder. A
simple biochemical study shows that our guts are not
“naturally” equipped to digest any animal milk —— even human
— for much longer than the normal couple of years’ suckling.
Prompted by prudish superstitions and facile convenience we
inflict on our babies an early nutritional assault by denying
them the kindness of human milk. Obsession with animal
protein and latterly an embarrassment of bounteous arable
outturns has turned our farming into an animal-feeding
industry, dominated and distorted by dairying. In the crazy
economic sophistications of agriculture farmer, consumer, vets
and the drug industry conspire to squeeze more milk and calves
out of the unfortunate cow. Every cow in the EEC carries
subsidies worth about £100, yet the Community has 6 million
too many. While the human race prudently practises methods
of contraception, artificial inseminators and cowboy vets,
vaingloriously groping about in the cow’s back-passages and
genitalia, stimulate conceptions and multiple ovulations, and
dabble with embryo-transplantations in experimental
mutilations that would need a Home Ofﬁce licence if they were
applied in the interests of medical research to a mouse. The
remorseless exploitation of farm-animals has developed into a
new enormity: our species is raping the cow.

Cereals, concentrates (comprising much of the goodness
removed in making depleted white ﬁours and breads), proteins
(soya and other oilseeds, as well as delicacies such as fishmeal,
dried poultry manure, and slaughterhouse nasties), industrial
by-products, miscellaneous boosters, stimulators, and drugs
needed prophylactically and therapeutically are stuffed into the
modern cow to maintain prodigious lactations and to “steam
up” for the calf. Demand for butter results in enormous gluts
of skimmed milk, which is expensively dried, stored,
reconstituted and finally — with yet another subsidy - fed to
the calf , eg in aveal-rearing unit. The silly cow and her calf, left
to themselves, arrange things differently: it’s called suckling.

Zero-grazed herds and others kept in cubicles have their feed
brought to them. Many modern herds are denied the comforts
of straw for bedding or as an item of diet, for many
dairy-enterprises are now established in areas where cereal-
growing is unimportant, so supplies of straw are expensive.
Besides, the straw that contributed so much to the merits of
farmyard manure has to be avoided in mechanised systems of

V —-r-’ "I 5 —4
\C’UL . w / 4m; t t s
x

 

 

ROTARY TANDEM PARLOUR

ROTARY HERRMBWE PARLOUR

 

 

 

 

”mements'wmw"
MILK CAN
SERIOUSLY UAW:E

l YOUR HEALTH i

 
 

 

 

 
 

A
v

 

   

 

 

   

 

from National Dairy Council propaganda.

 

cows stand about 30 inches
above the operator's pit but
stand at an angle

Herringbone

 

 

sluicing away the muck in evil slurries that have to be fermented
in “lagoons” or ugly tanks before they can be sprayed over the
land. Risks of pollution and demands for water -- 20 gallons a
day for a cow — are high.

God did not create cattle with modern man’s dietary cravings
in mind. The dairy-farmer looks for an animal with legs just
long and strong enough to keep a vast baglof f the ground and at
aheight suitable for attachmentof the milking machinery. The
beef-farmer looks for the blocky, muscular development in
breeds renowned for their pulling power, yet kept with little of
the exercise that would toughen the muscles and tissues. Hard
as they’ve tried, the endocrinologists have failed to adjust the
ratios of bull and heifer-calves. The dairy-farmer is left with the
job of selling off bull-calves and “beefing up” culled cows.
Baby-calves (“bobbies”) are consigned at the age of a few days
to the terrors of market and their ultimate fate in a
slaughterhouse to supply ingredients for veal-and-ham pies and
baby foods (the calves at that age are mainly skin and bone); or
young calves may be dosed up with antibiotics and sent off to be
reared in Britain or abroad for veal, this process being hastened
by injections or implants of drugs with hormone-like effects.

With AI, transferred embryos, and drugs farmers and vets
can play genetic games with the breeds. Traditional dairy-cattle
such as the Channel Island varieties and Ayrshires yield meat of
little value — the bull-calves may be barely worth knackering
for the dogs of the local hunt — whereas breeds such as the
Angus and Hereford are not “milky”, their output sufficing to
suckle a calf, but little more. In the UK and BBC over 70 per
cent of beef comes out of the dairy-herd. In Britain the
dual-purpose Friesian (black and white) meets most of the
demands, with relatively high yields of mediocre milk and beef
and particular requirements being bred in with inseminations
from Hereford (white face) bulls for meatier calves or Holsteins
for higher yields of milk. In this process “exotic” breeds have
been introduced, primarily to “beef up” with lean
hindquarter-meat breeds inclined to give fat cuts less attractive
for sales at butchers’ and supermarkets. Charolais, Limousins,
Simmentals and Aquitaines have been imported (as bulls or
semen) for this purpose.

These genetic capers involve farmers and vets in further
developments. The dairy-farmers’ herds comprise small cows
or animals slender across the beam and with narrow
birth-canals; a beefy calf, on the other hand, is broad across the
rump, so zealous genetic manipulations result in calving
difﬁculties and deaths. Recourse to dubious “aids” (forms of
traction, eg with block and tackle), or even the tractor, before
ﬁnally the expense of a vet’s visit is entertained, lead to some
ghastly scenes on dairy-farms. Farming technologists bash on
with schemes for inducing premature births of such large
calves, before they are big enough to jam in the birth—canal,
with special medication and supplements to tide them over their
hazardous ﬁrst few days of life.

Under the onslaught of modern technology and farming and
with the dubious ministrations of vets the British cow is
constantly on the verge of over-production disease. Tender,
loving care is replaced by copious doses of antibiotics and other
drugs and vaccines.

In 1955 the average British herd contained 16 cows,
occupying 123 hours per cow per year of direct human labour.

The average herd now numbers about 55 cows, each receiving
44 hours of direct attention per year. Over the same period ways
have been found of stuffing more concentrates into her, so that
average yields of milk have increased by about a third to 1,000
gallons a year. For every gallon of milk the cow is fed 3 |/2lb of
concentrates, as well as grass, conserved grass, and supple-
ments. . . ,

Vet and farmerply drugs and hormones totighten calving
intervals, induce estrus and to control calvings to reduce
overtime working, as well as in the treatment of the
multifarious infections that rampage among such stressed and
overworked populations. Lameness occurs frequently, because
cows heavy with milk and calves (they are 9 months of the year
in milk, 9 months in calf, and 6 months in both) suffer infection
from paddling about in slurry and turning on rough, strawless
concrete floors. Peddlars importune farmers with drugs licit
and illicit. ICI modestly advertise to vets their Estrumate, a
synthetic prostaglandin, for “planned breeding” in cows; they
vaunt it as “just a little better than Mother Nature provided”.

Mastitis is rampant in British herds. In clinical and
sub-clinical forms it afflicts l in 3 cows, or I in 10 of the
quarters. It is a bacterial infection, resulting in inﬂammation of
the inner lining of the udder and a catarrh-like secretion into the
mammary ducts. Clots collect at the filters in the milking
machinery and ultimately blood appears and the quarter seizes
up. Antibiotics are injected through the dugs into the udder and
many cows are given routine “dry-cow therapy” at the end of a
lactation.

The British pinta has been described as a dilute solution of
pus. Like meat, milk is a food produced in a lavatory and cows
do not restrain themselves in the purlieus of what are
euphemistically called “milking parlours”. These foods
therefore carry salmonellas, campylobacters, and other
pathogenic organisms from the fundaments and ordure. It is
unwise to drink raw milk.

The calves too are notorious carriers of pathogenic
organisms, many with multiple resistance to medically useful
antibiotics, thanks to misuse by farmer and vet. Advertising,
its preparation of trimethoprian and sulfadiazine, The
Wellcome Foundation state: “Intensive rearing and the stress
of long-distance movement have greatly increased the risk of
losses, which can be high and sudden. One sick calf can rapidly
affect all the others, and the death rate may reach 50 per cent”.
Not to be overdone, Hoechst claim that their vaccine can
protect the livestock farmer’s investment with the admonition:
“The number of deaths in young calves is horrifying -—
estimated at more than 200,000 a-year”.

The house-cow of old, known by name, was likely to attain
an age in double-ﬁgures. Notwithstanding the medications and
the “efficiency” of modern farming, her nameless successor
today is a number unlikely to survive to her fourth lactation.
After her few years of hectic lactating and pregnancy, she falls
victim to mastitis or fails to return to service, so she is culled,
slaughtered, and made into hamburgers. The veterinary
wizards, transferring embryos, have at least bestowed some
distinction on recipient-heifers entering this aspect of high-
production farming: we might at least salute one of these ladies,
giving birth to the calf foisted on her, as The Blessed Virgin
Marigold.

 

,,,_.,_......_—- '4‘ 1




, 77
Private

Hot li

Jar

44 {7, ﬁljJUIZJ/z * * I
of M A S H s
s — Helping Animals

, 64’s;

Loretta Swit, the hard-nosed wartime head nurse on
TV’s “M*A*S*H,” is waging her own private war offscreen

— in defense of animals.

The bighearted blonde, who plays Hot Lips, is deeply in-
volved: with the rights of animals and devotes virtually all her
spare time and plenty of her own money fighting for their wel-

fare.

She’s a member of eight anti-cruel-
ty organizations, helps run four, and
supports others as well.

Actor Harry Morgan, who plays
Col. Potter on “M*A*S"H,” recalled
an incident on the set that demon-
strates Loretta’s devotion.

“I— have a horse on the show,” he
said, “and in one episode he was sup-
posed to lie down and be sick. We
have another horse, a trained horse,
who lies down on command, but they
couldn’t get him that day. And my
horse kept getting up before the scene
was shot.

“So they wanted to give my horse a
tranquilizer -- but Loretta wouldn’t
go for that at all.

“She insisted that we‘ wait until an-
other day when we could get the
‘rained horse. And she won her point.
W e waited.

“Animal welfare is the main thing
Loretta is interested in. She’s in-
credibly active with the cause. She

 

 

seems to devote every spare moment
to animal rights.”

Says Marian Probst of the na-
tionwide Fund for Animals: “Loretta
is willing to go out on a limb for what
she believes in.

“Recently, she wrote a letter to
Nancy Reagan criticizing the First
Lady for wearing real fur coats.”

Peter Rasmussen of the Elsa Wild
Animal Appeal-USA, says: “Loret-
ta never hesitates to put herself on the
line for animals. At a rally recently,
she spoke against using animals in
cruel laboratory research. It was a
dynamic speech.

“And, of course, Loretta puts her
money where her mouth is. Period-
ically throughout the year she’ll send
us a $100 check, or a $500 check . . .
Plus she donates money to many oth-
er animal rights organizations.”

Carmelita Pope of the American

 

Humane Society said!
Loretta recently set
aside an entire week-

end to telephone other

ter treatment of ani- ..
g, mals when they are. _
,_ jj used on-camera.

I; committed,”

celebrities and enlist
their support for bet-

“Loretta is totally
reveal~

5"» ed Pope. “She called i . '

i' me once, very upset

” because she’d seen an 7, ’

exterminator’s truck .
around the 20th Cen-
;_ tury-Fox lot.
' are a lot of stray cats
. on the lot, and Loretta
.. ‘ was afraid that the
, exterminators

They weren’t.

”19:5; to cruelty to all living ~
creatures my whole

CONCERNED: Loretta refused
to let a horse on the show be
tranquilized, says Harry "Col.
Potter” Morgan.

 

There .

were
there to kill them.

“I’ve been allergic

 

life,” says Loretta.

creature. It’s a way of f:
thinking and living.” :1].-
— BENNET BOLTON ,

 

VDEVOTED: Loretta spends spare time fighting for animals’ rights.

 

 




A8 Seattle Poantelligencer, Monday, June 8. .1981

$eatﬂe 13051 ﬂutelligettcer

THE VOICE OF THE NORTHWEST SINCE 1863

_ More pet
A peeves

4

Good for you! Jon Hahn’s article
was a good effort toward jolting casu-
al pet owners out of their careless '
ways. (I just hope no one takes his
suggestion seriously.)

Early in the 1970’s when the ex-
tent of the pet overpopulation prob
lem was discovered by the media. it
was thought that the enormous waste
of animal life would stop as soon as
people got the word. Not so. In all
fairness, the numbers of pets killed
annually by Seattle Animal Control
has declined, but more needs to be
done to convince people that just one
more litter does add to the numbers
of pets killed and that having a pet is
a considerble responsibility in today’s
worid.

Thank heavens the city-run spay
and neuter clinic will soon be func-
tioning and we will have a chance to
reduce the numbers killed dramatical
ly. In the meanwhile, I hope Mr.
Hahn’s article will cause people to
think it through before either taking

or discarding a pet.
- LYNNE SMITH
Seattle

 




LETTERS

NEW YORK TIMES - June 26, 1981

 

Zoos Are N 0 Place to Rescue Periled Species

 

 

To the Editor: .

In a June 13 Op-Ed article, “The 200
as a Science,” Robert Bendiner says
that man is obligated to save those ani-
mals whose habitats are on the verge
of destruction, and he argues that we
should try to save endangered animals
by fostering them in zoos. According to
Mr. Bendiner, some critics believe
that zookeepers are “arrogant” for at-
tempting to arrest the natural process
of extinction.

However, many zoo critics desper-
ately want to save jeopardized spe-
cies; they object only to the arrogance
of a zoo proponent who believes that a

jeopardized species can be saved from .

extinction by being locked up in a zoo.
It is not possible for 2005 to conserve
ecological variety through the hoard-
ing of endangered species. The only
way to prevent animal extinction is to
conserve the jeopardized species’
habitats.

In caring for a jeopardized species,
the first problem a zookeeper must
overcome is providing a proper envi-
ronment for mating. It is often difficult
to determine the proper setting because
most endangered animals are so rare
that biologists have not been able to suf-
ficiently study their mating rituals in
natural surroundings. But even if an
animal species can be mated in captivi-
ty, inbreeding is an inevitable conse—
quence because only a relatively small
population of a species can be main-
tainedinzoos.’I‘hiSWillresultina

genetically weakened and thus an even
more extinctiomprone species.

It may be true, as Mr. Bendiner
says, that the Darwinian wild is “re-
morseless,” but it is only by allowing
them to live in the Darwinian wild -— to
which these animals have adapted
over the past thousands of years —
that their extinction can be prevented.
And it is only in the wild where an ani-
mal is free and in a right relationship
with nature.

Modern zoos have turned into ani-
mal freak shows, with nature’s most
unusual looking animals often becom-
ing more endangered as zookeepers
zealously hunt them down for their col-
lections. Zoos put too much emphasis
on animals that are very large (ele-
phants), very cute (pandas), very ugly
(armadillos) or that possess an ac-
cented feature (giraffes) .

Indeed, most organizations claim-
ing to be concerned about endangered
species concern themselves primarily
with animals that are photogenic, such
as the puffin or the penguin, while ig-.
norlng species that may be even closer
to extinction.

If zoos are promoted as the future
homes of today’s endangered animals,
then developers have been offered a
convenient alibi for destroying critical
habitats. The only just and effective
way to protect an endangered species
is to protect its rightful home — the
wilderness. PETER ENSMINGER

New Brunswick, N.J., June 15, 1981

 




ATLANTA CONSTITUTION - June 11, 1981

§5Animal
Fighting
éStudied

 

State Considers
Tougher Laws

By Fran [lesser
Constitution Staff Writer 9

’21 Graphic descriptions and °
gory photographs of the
“bloody sport” of dog fighting
shocked state legislators who
' held a public hearing Wednes-
.- day to consider strengthening
the laws prohibiting animal
1;; fighting.
' The legislators asked for
I. and received testimony on all
* sides of the issue as three dog
_’—“ fight enthusiasts supported
.5 their illegal hobby while the
" majority of the speakers emo-
ij tionally endorsed making dog
fighting a felony rather than
a misdemeanor. ,
-, Although the dog fighting
"I- subcommittee of the House
.... Game Fish and Recreation
Committee took no official
’ action Wednesday, the private
;,.consensus of legislators was
jthat dog and possibly cock
~ fighting should be a felony of-
.. .‘fense. '
Letters to the committee .
.- are running 100 to l in favor .
of making dog fighting a l
:: felony, according to commit-

 

f 3’ '3.

H‘NHMEH

not a good fighter, he is often
.. ’ shot, Dantzler contended. But

puted Dantzler’s testimony,
2 saying that dogs do not begin

331.2%!!3’NMW’W“

“We simply do not know
2 why people are attracted to
vicious blood sport,”
fi‘fDantzler commented.

2 Although most dog han-
“ dlers are men, Dantzler

- showed a film depicting one
. woman handler leaning over
the “pit” urging her fighting
,7, dog to “get you some baby,”
while the audience members
22 ha pily slurped beer.

. 2 antzler said dogs begin to

2: fight in “puppy fights” at the
age of 6 months, and most die
7 Within two years. If a dog is

 

- dog fighting enthusiasts dis~

to fight until they are 2 or 3
years old and often live until
2 they are 10 or 12 years old,
although they are usually re
tired . from the “pit” for
' breedmg purposes when they
are about 4 years old.

7 Harry Hargrove of Bacon-
ton said he has given about;
200 dogs away who were not ‘
good fighters. He said the 3
dogs are in demand for cattle i

 

dogs by farmers.

Hargrove advised legisla- ‘

m tee chairman state Rep. How- ,2 . tors against making dog fight- 1

tard Rainey, D-Cordele. 31mg a felony, since it would i

,_ Legislation making dog 5222 not stop the sport, only “drive i

egﬁfighting a felony was intro- iéli' it underground.”

: duced near the close of the ' 3;: Hargrove disputed claims ,
:; 1981 General Assembly after , :2that the dogs are trained to '
:2 a raid of a dog fight near ‘ usfight by brutally killing help-
”Augusta. :leSS kittens.

2 The mood for the four-hour ' "1""

:public hearing Wednesday
”was set in a gory film and
Z slide presentation showing the
:jffighting of pit bull dogs by
.4 Frantz Dantzler, director of

' 23.7field services and investiga-
gfjtions for the Humane Society

. «a: of the United States. '
2: Dantzler said over 100,000
:people participate nationwide
win the “blood sport” of dog

:3ighting.

€5.53?

 

 




 

A/En/ We)? Tings-WM; 27, MW

Still Tied to Seal Hunt, 750 Aleuts Ponder Change

By WALLACE TURNER
Special to The New York Times

ST. PAUL, Alaska, June 19 — On St.
Paul and its companion island, St.
George, small dots in the Bering Sea,
the lemon-yellow Arctic poppies are
blooming and the 700-pound seals the
Aleuts call beachmasters are bellowing
at other males challenging them for
control of harem sites. These are sig-
nalsthatitistimefortheannualfur
seal hunt, but this year the hunt is tak-
ingshapeasanew socialorderarises
because of decisions made in the world
beyond the Bering Sea.

The changes here in the Pribilof Is-
lands are a result of the Alaska Native
Claims Settlement Act of 1971. About
80,000 Alaska natives, including Eski-
mos and Indians, are also using the
1971 law to seek economic and social
betterment and to fight racial discrimi-
nation. However, the serflike position
once held by the Pribilof Aleuts has
been called unique in the nation’s rela-
tionships with its aboriginal peoples.

Legacy of 18th-Century Russia

That relationship was inherited from
Czarist Russia of the 18th century.

No one lived here before Gerasim
Pribilof, a Russian explorer, discov-
eredahugefursealpopulationonthe
islands in 1786. Soon the Russians im-
ported natives from the Aleutian Is
lands,m0milestothesouth,tohuntthe
seals for their pelts. The Russians
treated them as serfs, a pattern contin-
ued by Americans for a century after
1867, when the United States bought

economyoftheirown,tboughthesur-
rounding waters teem with fish. They
weretotallydependentontbefurseal
harvest. Inreturnforthepelts,aGov-
ernment store doled out food and cloth-

Now, their village corpora-
tion, the 750 Aleuts own the Pribilof Is
lands. They own their homes. And they
are searching for economic alterna-
tives to the seal hunt.

For a time this winter, it appeared
thatthehrmtwouldbeendedbyrevi.
sions in the International Fur Seal
Treaty then being considered in the
United States Senate. The annual kill
had been attacked as inhumane by
Friends of Animals and the Humane
Society of the United States.

But Larry Merculieff, the 31-year-old
president of the Tanadgusix Village
Corporation, used the new Aleut body
born of the Claims Settlement Act as
the basis for lobbying to save the hunt.
On June 11, the Senate affirmed the
treaty for four more years, and prepa-
rations for this year’s hunt went ahead.

How Hunt lsConducted

“We begin June 29 with breakfast at
4:15 and we head out at 5 o’clock,” ex.
plained Kalachi Melovidov, the 40-
year-old foreman of the hunt, his 24th.
He stood at a blind of rough planks be-
hind the Reef rookery. Below the blind,
the beachmasters quarreled with each
other and attacked any bull that tried
topushhiswayfromtheseaintothe
rookery. _

The victors held to their four-yard-
square patches of boulders, awaiting
thecows,whowillgivebirthtotheir
appealing, big-eyed black-furred pups
there and then be impregnated with
next year’s pups. The Aleuts believe
fewer than half the pups survive.

“The bulls stay there on the rocks
from now to November and never feed,
never go to the water,” said Mr. Melo-
vidov. “They look so big and fat now.
Youseethemwhentheyleaveand
they’re skin and bones. ”

Thebullswhohadlostthefightfor
harem space retreated to the sea.
Thesearebullssevenyearsorolder.
The 3- and 4-year-old bulls, not yet sex-
ually active, clustered on a sloping
rock beach about 100 yards beyond the
birthing rookery.

 

/Chukchi Sea '

Bering Sea .2

w '2
PRIBILOF

. lShANDS Gulf of Alaska

 

St. Paul Island

(on ’8 Miles
\St. George 03
Island

.9
9
’0)

mmrmrmu/erl, 1931

It is these “bachelor bulls" that are
arethetargetsofthehunt,asithas
evolved since 1911, when overkill re-
duced the herd to about 310,000 ani-
mals. Now the herd totals 1.5 million,
about the optimum number.

“We run between them and the sea,”
said Mr. Melovidov. “Got to drive them
upwind. If you can’t go upwind, you
havetowait.”

He pointed to level ground above the
beach. “That’s the killing ground,” he
said. About 25,000 male seals will be
killed on similar patches of grass here
intbe four-week season in July.

Long ago the Aleuts perfected the
system of stunning the fur seals with
blows to the head when they have been
driven into a tight circle on the grass.

Mr. Melovidov’s crew includes seven
stunners, seven rippers, who open the
abdomen of the uncomcious animal,
two stickers, who puncture the hearts,
two bar men, who hold the animal’s
body firm, and six pullers, who strip off
the pelt. With watchmen, heaters and
soforth,therewillbe3810bsinall, for
the biggest payroll in the islands, total-
ing about $400,000.

By Federal statute, only a Govern-
ment employee can kill the seals for
fur.Ina8y8temthathasbroughtthe
Government profits over the last cen-
tury, it pays the wages, maintains the
utilitiesandshipsinthefuelandgaso—
line. Itsellsthepeltstoafurprocessor,
who markets them to furriers.

DominancebyFederalAgents

“A humane observer watches us,"
Mr. Melovidov said. “No animal bigger
than48inches,gottodoitquick,notbe
cruel. Thingser that.”

How does he feel about the killing?

“It’s our job to do and we’re doing it
the right way,” he said.

ThejobwasdefinedbytheBureauof
Commercial Fisheries of the Fish and
Wildlife Service and its successors,
which ran the Pribilof Islands from
1911‘ until control gradually eroded in
the 1960’s and 1970’s. After a pause to
rebuild the herd, sealing resumed in
1918. The Aleuts remained in a client
status, this time to the United States
Government.

In “A Century of Servitude,” pub-
lished earlier this year, Dorothy Knee
Jones, a University of Alaska profes-
sor, writes of Federal agents using the
threatoferdlefromtheislandstokeep
the Aleuts under control. Instead of
cash wages, the agents gave them food
and clothing. If they behaved, Aleuts
could live in the Government-owned
houses. The officials restricted travel
and refused admittance to unwanted
outsiders, particularly those who might
question the lack of political freedoms.

Larry Merculieff said, “While this
was happening, the United States was
making893millioninprefitsoffthefur
seal trade ”

Mr.Mefeulieffreturnedtoliveinhis
birthplace in 1972, after earning his

economics degree from the University
of Washington. His activities as head of
the village corporation have made him
a hero to older island residents,

“I admire that man so much,”
said Gabe Stepetin, 70 years old, who
hasspentmostofhislifeonthisstorm-
battered, mile island.

In 1939 Mr. Stepetin brought his wife,
Zenia, to St. Paul from Akutan, in the
Aleutians, where he had met her while

working as a blubber stripper for a

whaling company. He got back his job
in the Government store here.

Zenia, the young bride, went to the
store and began to pick things that at-
tracted her off the shelves. Tears glis-
tened in her eyes as she remembered it.

“I went over and told her, ‘No, those
things are for the white people,’ ” her
husband said. “We put the things back
and I went home and cried,” said Mrs.
Stepetin.

Mr. Stepetin remembers when the
Aleuts were ordered to evacuate St.
Paul and St. George in June 1942, a
weekafterthe Japanesecaptureoftwo
Aleutian islands, Kiska and Attu. The
Aleuts were told to leave immediately,
with what they could carry. Gabe
Stepetinwasthelastpersontoboard
the military transport ship.

“Before I went on the ship I walked
uptothechurchandprayedtoGodfor
our safety,” he said. “I had such a ter-
rible feeling of being the only Aleut left
on the island. ”

For 18 months, the Pribilovians were
quartered in an abandoned gold mine
andafishcanneryintheJuneauarea.
Larry Merculieff said, “We lost 25 per-
cent of ourpeople.”

In 1964, United States Senator E.L.
Bartlett of Alaska became concerned
over Federal domination of the Aleuts’
lives when a candidate for the Alaska
Legislature was barred from cam-
paigning on St. Paul Island. His bill,
which became the Fur Seal Act of 1966,
gave the Aleuts local rnment
powers they had not had before. In
1977, St. Paul incorporated as an
Alaska city.

The most important here, in
the judgment of many who remember
the years of Federal domination, came
in 1978, when ownership of the island

to the Aleuts’ village corpora-
tion, under provisions of the 1971 settle
ment. Last year, title to the little
houses they lived in passed to individu-

als.

“Now I’m a full-ﬂedged citizen,” Mr.
Stepetin said. “Everybody is
now. They have their freedom. But
withfreedomcomeshazards.”

He brought up the Pribilovians’ great ~

Female seals in the Pribilofs. The Aleuts have depended
asearchforanalternativels starting.

huntforsurvivalfortwocsnturles,but

fear again, the specter of an end to the
sealing. He said: “We would need more
time before you eliminate sealing. I
would want to keep it forever.”

The Aleut society is homogeneous,
close-knit, slow to accept outsiders and
change. There is a mission at the edge
of town, run by the Rev. Alvin Capener
of the Assemblies of God and his wife,
but after 15 years here, Mr. Capener
said, “I have no congregation,” not a
single convert among Aleuts.

The Rev. Michael Lestenkof, 67
years old, is the Orthodox pastor. He
was ordained at the age of 49 on St.
George, where he grew up. His grand-
father was ordained there in 1865, when
the church was still Russian Orthodox.
Expressing concern over alcoholism
and sinfulness among the Aleuts, he
said he had 120 families in his congre-
gation. That is the number of Aleut
families on St. Paul.

There are no dogs here. They would
annoy the seals. One television channel
comes in by satellite. Beer is sold at a
tavern owned by the Community Coun-
cil, which owns the Community Store.
The Federal Government brings in the
fuel oil and gasoline.

The unemployment rate is 80 per-
cent. Islanders owe the Federal Gov-
emment $155,000 for electricity and
$124,517 for fuel oil. The Community
Store, itself $200,000 in debt to suppli-
ers, holds unpaid bills of $101,000.

The physical plant of the Govem-
ment village the Aleuts now own is
well-worn. The sewers and water lines
are old. The electric system will cost 28
cents a kilowatt hour to operate, al-
though the Government has been
charging 14 cents.

Hopes for Diversification

The Aleuts want to try commercial
fishing, but there is no harbor. 'hvo
small boats that can be hauled out on
the beach have been bought for experi-
mental work this year. Tourism, in-
volving showing bird watchers the is-
land’s 190 species, employs some is- _
landers in the summer.

Years ago the Federal agents built a
plant to cook the oil out of the seals.
Now it is being converted to a plant
where the animals will be frozen,
sawed into pieces and sold to a Korean
company and to crab boat operators for
use as bait. Mike Zacharof is the plant

rvisor.

“If we didn’t have the fur harvest, we
on the Pribilofs wouldn’t have any-
thing," Mr. Zacharof said. “Once there
were 15,000 Aleuts. Now there are 3,000,
to 1.5 million seals. It’s the Aleut people
who are the endangered species.”

~ontheannualseal

 

 




6g scopes

By LIZ FAVUS
Features Editor

Not long ago, a small, fluffy dog,Be nj’
sas howling in agony from the cruel steel trapf! that had
er in its inexorable grip.

She screamed she struggled, she fought All to no
vail. Traps aren’t designed to let go; quite the reverse.
They hold the terrified crea ure until it. either dies in
excruciating pain or chews through its own leg to get
:.ree The trapper who sets it to catch raccoons and other-
:upbearing animals is supposed to carry a chokestick to
ree cats and dogs. But it’s simpler just to knock them on
he head until they can struggle no more. -

No one knows how this little dog got away. Perhaps
he too, had chewed her limb or possibly someone With
kind heart and strong nerves found her before it was too
ate. However she was freed, she was one of the lucky
hes who eventually find their way to the Cobb County
lumane Society and the dedicated volunteers who work
here. ~ ~ ~..~1_...-.

Petey Giroux is one of those volunteers. She lives in
Blackland Drive in east Cobb with her husband Chad,
11d their daughters, Lynn, 5, and Courtaney, 11 months ——
nimal-lovers all. As a family, they took the dog into
neirhome and are caring for her as foster-parents unti1
permanent place can be _.found

“We hope to ﬁnd a very special family to care for her
ecause she s a special dog,” says Mrs. Giroux, a soft~
Oiced -fa1r-ha1red iady--with~a-largeheart.— “We’d love tow»
eep her ourselves but with our two dogs and cat it’ s ‘
etting a hit crowded here. ” -

To watch the little dog now, playing peacefully with
e baby or scuttling off toward the road when Mrs-
iroux isn’t looking, it’s easy to overlook the amputated

 

é‘See Related Story, Page 6A

ack leg. The operation was performed with great skill,
11d only a thin grey scar marks the stump which is all
sat remains of the trapped leg. She was fortunate in
eing rescued before it was too late, and has madea
'onderful recovery. But most trapped pets don’t-

“I travel to various Cobb County high schools
oeaking on animal care and on traps,” says Mrs. Giroux.
They really should be restricted or banned. The Humane
ociety sees dogs or cats like this time and time again,"
ut no one knows how
:‘s too late.” . . .7 .

Appealing to ﬁner instincts may not cut much” ice
with trappers, however. Trapping is big business in
leorgia, where the steel leg-hold traps are still legal
espite their ban in other states.

According to Capt V .1. Garrison of the Georgia
)epartment of Natural Resources in Manchester, close
3 $4 million was received last year by Georgia trappers.
lealers pay varying prices for pelts, the top being more
12m $50 for a bobcat skin, the lowest around 10 cents for

squirrel’ s tail. ' * '

In addition, the state receives approximately $75, 000
' license fees at $25 per license each year. Legislation to
an or restrict trapping has been repeatedly opposed by
1e state legislature.

The trapping season runs from Dec. 1 to Feb. 15 each
ear. But these dates are not always strictly followed by
appers, who may leave their traps lying around for pets
1ch as the little fluffy dog to blunder into.

“If we could only make people aware of babe prgblem 5,," ”M, a, A,“ M,”
a be somethin would be done, " says rs 1roux ~ N HILDREN FAMILY
Wine these Nags are about anyone, 3 pet or child could . 11-15 ums DOG ears on wau wnu omen ms A o c

ander into them Something has to be done.” .. .. . . . ' _ Petey Giroux Cuddles Daughter Courtaney, ll Months, And ‘Foster' Do

 




ﬁlm New ﬂak ﬁlimee

 

THURSDAY, MAY 21, 1981
WOIQINMYﬁ'fi-C

Metropolitan Report

 

 

NeW Zoo Puts Children in Animals’ Places

By DEIRDRE CARMODY

A spectacular new Children’s 200,
where children can burrow like prairie
dogs in underground tunnels or perch
like birds on platforms high in the
trees, will open tomorrow at the Bronx
Zoo.

The new zoo, which its designers say
is the only one of its kind in the United
States, makes children participants
instead of observers. The designers
say the aim is to stimulate children’s
imaginations while teaching them how
wild animals, birds and insects live.

After watching a spider, for in-
stance, they themselves can climb a
child-size web. They can peer into a
dark tree trunk and see with owl-like
vision. Or they can walk onto a ﬂoating
dock in a marsh full of blue and yellow
irlses and brilliant red cardinal
ﬂowers and watch sheldrakes, manda-
rin ducks and wood ducks.

Unlike Most Such Zoos '

“We wanted to try a new concept,”
said Richard L. Lattis, curator of
education at the Bronx Zoo and direc-
tor of the City Zoos Project, who con-
ceived the idea and designed the new
zoo.
“There are a lot of children’s zoos
around, but most of them have only do-
mestic animals,” he said. “Children
think they can pet and feel wild ani-
mals, which is bad. Wild animals
should be left alone.”

There are also domestic animals in
the new zoo. The children can pet sad-
eyed Nubian goats and furry Barbados
sheep. There is an infirmary for sick
animals. They can also watch chicks
hatch and can stroke gray ducks and

geese.

At one point yesterday a gray goose
with a red beak broke loose from its
enclosure and flapped wildly around
the yard. Ned Mansbach, the keeper,
lunged and stumbled after it.

Later Mr. Mansbach was asked
what kind of a goose got loose.

“A Toulouse goose,” he replied.

"Believe'me," he added apologeti-
cally, “that’s its real name.”

There are signs at child-level
throughout the exhibit; the signs are
pegged for third-grade children with a
ZOO-word vocabulary. Some signs ex-
plain about the animals, and others
ask questions designed to make chil-

Continued on Page 818

 

 

The New York Times/ William E. Sauro

At the new Children’s Zoo in the Bronx Zoo,
youngsters can climb a spider’s web, get close to a
rabbit and hear a message about desert animals
through earphones appropriately large and furry.

 




 

818

THE NEW YORK TIMES,

Learning A boat Life on the VViId Side

" ByJENNlFER DUNNING

~ Ask a child who has been to the zoo
and you will be told that a calf’s head is
bony and blunt as it thrusts up to
scratching fingers, and that nestling a
rabbit is like holding the softest pillow
in the world.

But how many children have slid 14
feet down a fence lizard's escape route,
or painstakingly pushed themselves
alongenveloped in a snail shell?

These feats will be possible at the
Bronx Zoo's new Children's Zoo, which
opens officially tomorrow morning at
10. And along the route across the new
zoo's three acres, visitors will learn a
number of lessons, some surprising,
about the way animals live.

The new zoo consists of a sprawling
environment of natural and manmade
terrains crisscrossed by walkways,
shelters and play areas made of natu-
ral-oak blanks. all but one negotiable

 

New Zoo in Bronx Places
Children in Animal Roles

Continued From Page Bl

dren think. The attentive child should
be able to answer all questions — Why
do snakes live in dens? Why don’t they
live there all year around? — because the
information has been given in previous
signs.
The new zoo is one of several major
new exhibitions under construction or
being planned at the Bronx Zoo. Within
the next 10 years, 12 major projects, to
cost an estimated $25 million, are
planned. So far 38 million has been
raised. On June 12 an expanded and re
built Sea Lion pool is expected to open.
The Children’s Zoo, which cost 81.5 mil-
llm. was built with gifts from the Charles
Hayden, Kresge and Louis Calder Foun-
dations, among others.

The New York Zoological Society,
which runs the Bronx Zoo, will also take
over the Central Park Zoo. Plans for its
redesign are being made. They will have
to 'be approved by Parks Commissioner

 

 

Gordon Davis and the Board of Estimate
before work can get under way. The
present zoo is still open.

Like the new Children’s Zoo at the
Bronx Zoo and most new exhibits in zoos
around the world, the Central Park ani-
mals are to be shown in as natural an en-
vironment as possible.

“It’s the coming thing in all zoos to try
to eliminate bars," Mr. Lattis said.
“Bars don't bother animals, but they
bother people. Animals behind bars still

breed and eat, but to people bars mean

prisons."

At the Bronx Zoo, the new Children’s
Zoo replaces an old one. Admission is 80
cents for children and 70 cents for adults,
who are not admitted without children.
This charge is in addition to the general
admission fee to the Bronx Zoo: :2 for
adults and 75 cents for children, Friday
through Monday. On Tuesday, Wednes-
day and Thursday, there is no charge to
enter the zoo. Persons 65 years or older
and children under 2 are admitted free at
all times.

 

 

by the handicapped. Colorful banners
identifying the new zoo’s five zones
hang at the entrance. across from the
Elephant House, and each of the 42 ex-
hibits is labeled with bright plaques
proclaiming — but not too loudly — in-
teresting details and speculations.

Begins at Woodlands Edge

The two-hour trip into this world
begins at the Woodlands Edge area,
where the forest thins out to grass.
Here visitors may learn about animal
homes, which may be constructed or
adapted. They may then walk over a
brook and into the heron aviary, dotted
with birds so still they seem stuffed
until they blink.

Visitors peering into a nearby hollow
glass-fiber log are met by a live and
glowing pair of yellow raccoon eyes.
There is a raccoon log to crawl through,
but children may be more interested in
a 20-foot garden orb spider's web. It is a
faithful copy of a real one in a nearby
log, but a copy that may he climbed.

The child who wedges into three
caves will see first a den full of rat and
garter snakes, then the crevice home
for a wood rat, and finally a third,
smaller grotto alive with glistening red
cave salamanders intent on catching
crickets for breakfast.

Bullfrogs are only one of the species
of the manmade Marsh, where they
live in a ﬂoating garden with egrets
and ducks, sticklebacks and shiners.
Here, youngsters will find a bullfrog
jump where they can measure their
leaps against an amphibian record.
The children always lose, but they
learn why frogs are such good jumpers.
There’s also a tank where diving and
swimming ducks may be observed.

Learning Animal Defenses

The main attraction of the Forest
area, where children may learn about
animal defenses, is likely to be the liz-
ard escape slide. Tree stump stools are
available at the foot of the slide for
waiting adults, although the slide is
large enough to accommodate a fairly
portly parent.

Simulated sand, rocks and heat dis-
tinguish the Desert, where an owl may
be observed by climbing a ladder up
the eight-foot-high fiberglass saguaro
cactus that is is home. To see the world
as he does. viewers may squint at a
mouse through a series of windows
with varying illumination.

The world as heard by Freddy the

Fennec Fox, the Children's Zoo mas-
cot, may be listened to by inserting
one's head between pairs of large fox
ears very like those of Freddy and
Flossy, a second fennec, who scamp-
ers, blinking, about a nearby pen.
g A trip through the new Children's Zoo
may end with a stop at a photo booth
where children may have their pictures
taken with a snake or rabbit. There
may be found a nursery with baby
chicks, hatching eggs, a tiny faun and
orphan oppossums, as well as two
scrabbling, monthold raccoons.

And there, too, are the petting pens,
where visitors may stroke a variety of
domestic animals. Like the rest of the
new Children's Zoo, the appeal seems
universal.

A pan of lmlhmg tron-aged lxr,:;

 

The New York Times
A Sicilian donkey captured the interest of a little girl at the Children’s Zoo

 

 




Giureac’enter Worker. Op '

l'

By LIZ FAVUS
Features Editor

Somewhere close to the
Zhattahoochee Nature Cen»
er, a fox is dragged from
he river. two steel jaw
eghold traps clamped to its
'eet. Elsewhere, 3 fine Ger-
nan Shepherd, someone’s
nuch-loved pet, suffers as
its paw freezes to the ground
in a cold' spell, thanks to
another steel trap. ,

Every day, people's pets,
sometimes even their chil-
iren. fall victim to the
:ruelty of the trap. Agrow-
ng- number of Cobb resi-
lents feel it is time the trap
s banned from Georgia. as
t is from many other states
and 59 foreign countries.

“The problem is, the trap
ioesn't discriminate,” says
:aturalist Cliff Kevill, who
works at the Chattahoochee

§ature'Center in east. Cobb- .

7he center does not take any
and on the issue of steel

raps... he ., points - out--.Sta.ff .,.,

:iembers frequently en-
ounter injured animals who
ave been caught by the
waps. however, and treat
iem whenever they can.
"People think that if you
ant to restrict the use of
caps. you want to stop hunt-
ng as well." Kevill adds.
'But the two are quite dif-
erent. First. itls easy to tell
.vhen' people are hunting and
on can avoid thearea. Sec-
.nd, you need a permit to
unt, but not to use a trap."
As the law stands at pres-
nt, anyone can buy a steel
rap provided it is no larger
nan size two. But, as Kevill
toints out. larger sizes are
.vailable from hardware
tores. in Kevill‘s view,
here should be a minimum
ige requirement for
surchasing a trap. possibi,
:6. A license should be re-
quired to operate a trap, not
nerely. as at present. a
icense to sell fur. .
“Kids can trap animals
ind sell their furs to a third
narty. getting around the
aw easily." Kevill points
rut. .
Third. there should be a
rescribed course man-
atory for all trap users.
uch as that given in
alconry, Kevill continues/

the traps are properly set,
he contends. fewer domestic

animals will be caught.

Finally. he adds. certain.
areas should be designated

off-limits to trappers.

 

esent, all you need
is a written letter from the

.landowner' on whose land
7you are setting the trap."
ikevill. says. “’lhis could
ﬁmeanatrapisset up right in

the middleof a residential

larea. and cats. dogs and

children are often victims in

cases like this.” .
A terrified, suffering

animal trapped by its leg

will do anything to escape,

‘ Kevill says. It will even try
i to chew through its leg. and
i often that leg will become
: infected and need amputa~
‘ tion -—— if the animal can

indeed be saved. Many trap-
pers simply shoot a pet that
is caught by mistake.

' “Trappers are supposed
to carry chokesticks to set a
domestic animal‘ free}: he

.4 a) “Ax-a V _,

sayS- “But often 32319.3;

_ don’tfl.

v. 3"? :

(3' .wg.-. sew-arugrgﬁ‘ 11‘;
Themative for trapping

is money. As..Kevill-~ex-

plains. a pelt may fetch_b§:_7

tween $25 and $75,— depending
on the animal. Faxes, rac-

; coons and. beavers; are

among the most sought-after"

victims in the Cobb area, he‘

'says, and there is quite {a
sum to be made by a handy
trapper. Forthis reason, a

large lobby of trappers is“
opposed to banning or re—
stricting traps.

“The issue has repeatedly
come up before the legisla.
ture,” he says. “Buteach-
time it has been defeated.
The problem is, people don’t
know what traps are or what
they can do. When they do
know, they will often want to

[gases

a..- hﬂfS‘<-i .
. .I' ‘

,civilized and barbaric
'means of trapping animals,” '
Kevill maintains. “it’s an I
age-old pastime, but it’s not

the only way or the correct!
way of doing things}: .'

A a“ .-

THURSDAY, MAY 14, 1981

 

i

Y

do something about them.i’;~ ,

The Atlanta Humane So-9

" ciety, with over 12.000 mem-

bers, passed a statement

. condemning “the use of this

very cruel and inhumane
piece of equipment which
has no place in a civilized
society." ‘ *

“Every day someone’s
dog or cat is caught by one of

. these things.“ Kevill says.

As we speak. ne'aemono
strates how the trap works.
Lying flat on'the ground, the
metal instrument looks to
the casual eye like a piece of
discarded scrap, probably
harmless. But let a small

._ animal or child approach,

,and with a swift click the
‘jaws spring shut. '

 

“rm. 5" Dan er '
P _ 9%...

"It" definitely 'is an tin-l

 

Above, Cliff Kevill, a
naturalist; would like
.. to see the use ofsteei
iiaw le'ghOld 1’ trc,3:
ébanned' or .jjat least
”* greatly restricted. ln
“Heft photo, a close‘up
{Vivievvwof the trap that
cannot .:cliscriminate
.5 between the .leg of o
'33 wild animal or a pe:
:— or even a child, he
Says. (Staff Photos 8)

Laura slkes) ‘

 

 




PAGE 4A

NElGHBOR WAN‘

 

r

VliWPOlill

Sum-ting Atlanta's Suburb.

EIGHBOR

NEWSPAPERS

5.0 Fairground St -P.O. Box 449

 

Comments-Editmiols~Opinions-Loﬁors

The East Cobb Neighbor

Ham Ofﬁco Want Ads '

428—9411 427-943?

C ivculthon

428-941?

Reaching 344,000 .mm

 

500 W“ Shoot Monolto, Coup. 3006l
428-941 1

Managing Edna!
Features Edam:
Spam Edno:
Advomsmg' Solo}
Advummg Sdos
Advoﬂmng Monow

THE EAST COBB NEIGHBOR. 500 Fairground Street.
Marietta. Georgia 30060. Controlled circulation postage
rates pad at Maven). Ga. 30060. Published weekly by
Neughoov N Inc. P.O. Box 449. Marietta. Ga. - -:
30061. Annual subscription pncos: By Mail (in Cobb CouM’y)
$12.00: (in GOOO’QIJ) $18.00: (out of Georgia) 52¢.00. POST-
HASTER: Send address changes to: Neighbor Newspapers.
Inc.. P0. 80: 449. Monetta. Ga. 30063.

f._ L

 

SW ”albums 0‘ Wu

Marl: o} Camulahon Integrity

.i'ifijﬁi

Represented Nationally by
U.S. SUBURBAN PRESS INC.

box-lb County: Fumes. County.
Dunwoody-DeKaio Neighbor , Norihsade Nesgthr
Chamblee-DeKalb NOSQhDO(
Dommte-DoKalb Neighbor
Decatur-OeKalb Neighbor '
TuCker-DoKalb Naghbo:
Stone Mauntam-DeKalb Neighbor
Scum DeKalb Neighbor

Cobb County:
Marietta Dally Jomnal
East Cobb NGOQHDO'
Kennesaw Neighbor
Acmrm Neoghbor
Powder Springs Neighbor
Mableton Neighbor
Auslell NOtghDOI

‘ Smyrna nghOOf
megs Neighbor

Clayton County:

Rosml Nesqhbor
Alohomﬁc Nwhbor

Fm Cumir.
Fayette Neighbor

Douglas County.
Douglas Noghbor

PM Cm".
Pouldmg Novgnboc

My County-

. WW Mthr
CW6; County:

Roam: County“.

Clayton Neighbor Rockdele Noegh Der

OTi‘ A. IIUHIT,.JA...~:«,.-rc~.-
publlShel

Caz-JAY (WNORYOK 4.
Associate pUDhShBl

HARRIS KETTLE‘ BOISY NESBITT
General Manager Executive Editor
BRENT CARROLL
Advertising Director

Trapping milk

Cruel PrdCfice Endangers Children; Pets

The trapping season is over Wild creatures,
dogs. cats and children who love to. run barefoot
over east Cobb’s fields and woods can enjoy a
- welcome respite until Dec. 1, the start of the
j official trapping season. Not until then need they

fear catching their limbs in the cruel, inhumane
steel-jawed trap that is the origin of so many fur
coats and jackets we wear without a second
thought.

Not, that is, unless a trap has been carelessly
abandoned; an occurrence that is by no means
unknown. While traps are unrestricted, there is no
really safe season. It is time we told our legisla-
tors that we refuse to subject our domestic pets
and our children to ‘ this wholly unnecessary
hazard

The sharp teeth of such traps grip the leg of an
animal until it either dies in agony, chews through
its own leg or is found and killed by the trapper.
Think of that next time you consider buying a
, raccoon, beaver or rabbit coat, to name but a few
of the trap’s destined victims. It takes 25 foxes,

 

 

 

for example, to make one coat, 25 wild animals
who died in excruciating pain. Pain has no price
tag. . ' 1
This is National Kindness to Animals Week —-
a good time to reflect on whether we want to allow
our pets to be put at risk by these horrible
instruments, God's wildlife destroyed and
mutilated in this appalling manner.

If 59 other countries and over six American
states can live without the steel-jawed trap, so can
we. East Cobb ‘would not be overrun with pests
and vermin; this has not happened in places where
the trap has been banned. Instead, pests are kept
down naturally, undisturbed by man’s in-
terference. In any case there is no possible
excuse for commercial trapping.

It is utterly inconceivable to begin to imagine
the kind of pain that would lead a dog to chew
through its own leg to get free. Traps have no
place in civilized society and must be banned or at
the very least restricted. National Kindness to
Animals Week is an excellent time to act.‘

 

Ai‘ot-

' “macaw: my; m
CW3

unions. (3.. .

Sandy Springs Neighbor

Seuth Fulton Neighbor

, Scum Choral-00 Nughboi

‘l _

.y.

)1

 

 

 




6/3/81 THE DEKALB NEWS /SUN

 

T‘ﬁ
Reader’s

Ix

Litmm

PAGE 5 A

 

Reader’s Forum provides readers with the opportunity to express
their opinions on matters of public or personal interest.We encourage
letters from local readers on matters of interest to the community.
Letters should be typed, preferably double-spaced. All letters mustbe
signed and must include an address, (a post ofﬁce box number is not
sufficientJ and telephone number, not necessarily for'publication.
Names may be withheld for sufﬁcient reason. They are subject to
routine editing for grammar, spelling, punctuation, length, offensive
or libelous language. Ordinarily, only one letterjrom any one writer
will be published in any calendar month. Only original letters, with
remarks direct'ed to and written to the newspaper will be considered

Please do not send copies of letters you have written to someone else.
Preference is. given to letters of one page (double Spaced) or .less in

length from DeKalbarea residents. Letters of more than 350 words

MAY NOT BE PUBLISI-I‘EI‘

CDogfighﬁng Should Be Made A Felony To Step inhumanity

a

"i

'J
"\

Anyone who reads the Atlanta newspapers has

1,. certainly read of, the inhumane and brutal dogfighting

o o

uncovered recently in a raid by the Georgia Bureau of
Investigation and the Humane Society of the United
States. This brutal exhibition had women and small

_ children in attendance as they watched dogs fight each

u
i.
if)
I

_ are exposed

. other in a ring.

Now it‘s brutal enough if men do this, but they choose
to do it; an animal has no choice. It is trained to fight by
the greedy owner who is hoping to make a fortune in an
illegal activity. .

Experts have often stated that when small children
to brutality to God’s lessor creatures when

’ they are small, they very often turn to lives of crime as

adults.
The legislative committee is now holding hearings on
this disgraceful situation in our state, and it is time the

’.~ people demanded a stop to this disgusting situation once

0

land for all.

As our law now states, it is merely a
misdemeanor to show cruelty to animals. The subcom-

mittee is considering legislation making dogfighting a
felony, andwell they should. I hope every citizen who has
any love for his fellow creatures, will write to the
subcommittee and demand that this be written into the
law. They are also considering making it a misdemeanor
to attend a dogfight.

Dogfighting is not a one-time affair; it goes on and on,
and no one can truly state how many animals are literally
torn apart to die of their wounds, or nursed back to
health so once more they can be torn apart.

Let’s show the rest of the nation that Georgia is a
civilized state, and that we re not going to condone this
type of activity within our borders. Let’s insist that
dogfighting be a felony, and make the penalty stiff
enough to stop this degrading inhumanity to man’s best
friend.

(Mrs) Connie Yarbrough
Member, Board of Directors
Atlanta Humane Society

 




 

A TALE
o F

TWIN CITIES

SUNDAY AFTERNOON EXCURSIONS:
TOURING MINNEAPOLIS/ST. PAUL

The National Geographic calls the
Twin Cities "a Midwestern mix of
Optimism and practicality. " See for
yourself the land of 10,000 lakes.

Conference members may choose to
take in any of the following tourist
attractions on their own or join the
organized excursions mentioned on
reverse side.

Minnesota Orchestra (Music
Director, Neville Marriner)

Tyrone Guthrie Theater

Chanhassen Dimer Theaters

Home of North Stars/Kicks/ Twins
Vikings

Minneapolis Institute of Arts

Science Museum/Omnitheater

St. Paul Capitol and Cathedral

IDS Tower/Crystal Court

Minnesota Zoological Garden

Homes of Humphrey, Mondale,
Gene McCarthy, 5M, General
Mills, Honeywell, Pillsbury,
Control Data, Mary Tyler Moore
Show, and the movie Airport

Renaissance Festival

St. Paul Chamber Orchestra
(Music Director, Pinchas
Zukerman)

Children's Theater

Fort Snelling

University of Minnesota

A few hours to Mayo Clinic in
Rochester or to St. John's
University, Collegeville

INFORMATION/ARRANGEMENTS

Room Reservations

Minneapolis Marriott Hotel, intersec—
tion of Cedar and 1—494 (by Met Sta—
dium).

Please make your own room arrangements
with the Marriott or your travel agent
before Se 1:. l, 1281. Contact the ho—
tel at (800) 228—9290 (tollfree) or at
(612) 854-74410 Specify: Animal Rights

Symposium.

Special room rates per day:

848 single
$55 double or triple

Transportation between the Marriott
and Airport takes 5 minutes and is
free via hotel van.

mssossmm (<th

 

 

Registration Arrangements

Persons attending the symposium are
asked to re 'ster early (no later
than Sept. 11 to facilitate planning
and assure space.

Conference fees will include recep-
tion, lunch, banquet, and brunch:

345 Adults
$35 Students and Seniors
325 All ages (without meals)

m 11




 

Prices for individual events
are available upon request.

Please direct any Questions
to:

Animal Rights Coalition, Inc.
P.O. Box 20515
‘Minneapolis, MN 55420
I612; 724—8655
612 888—0288

 

Detach and Return section at
right to above address.

Please make checks payable
to:
ABC, Inc., Mpls

and write in memo section:

mbr and/or '22'81.

 

 

\I{i§ses
A.:§§f‘

p»:f:;
. \ \ // ’/

 

. w In. .
Drawing by Marilyn McQuarrie: a
local art teacher scheduled to

exhibit at ARC symposium.

   

I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I

Detach and Return

Please write number for each
category in appropriate square.

Registration (sym'81)
I I adults ($45)

I seniors and students ($35)

v

 

 

 

 

 

no meals ($25)

 

 

 

 

 

sub-total
Food:
I vegetarian I vegan-
‘ non—dairy
Tours: (non-committal)
I . RRRC Zoo

 

 

 

 

Cancelled check is receipt
for registration.

Membership_(mbr)
[:3 regular ($10)

supporting ($25)

 

 

 

patron ($100)

 

 

sponsor ($200 or above)

 

 

 

sub-total

total (enclosed) _______

Membership card to be sent
upon receipt of dues.

PLEASE PRINT!
name

 

address
city
state/zip
phone

 

 

 

_ check no

*

 




 

CONCERN
FOR ANIMALS

    

man

ANIMAL RIGHTS COALITION, INC.

' A RISING TIDE 0

A NATIONAL SYMPOSIUM
BRINGING TOGETHER PEOPLE
CONCERNED WITH ANIMAL RIGHTS

- featuring —
DR. MICHAEL‘W. FOX
and
CLEVELMN3AMORY

 

SEPTEMBER 18-20, 1961*-

MARRIOTT HOTEL
Minneapolis , Minnesota

ﬂ

Animal Rights Coalition, Inc.
P.O. Box 20315
IMinneapolis, MN 55420
(612) 724-8633

APLM;
5:50
6:50
7:50
8:00

10:30

A R C

Animal Rights Coalition, Inc.
is an educational, non-profit
organization working to prevent
cruel treatment of animals.

 

Board and Planning Committee:
Paul Manley, Pauline Laybourn,
Greg Paffel, Richard Laybourn,
VOnnie Thomasberg, Ken Lyons,
Ron.Sadowsky, and Pam Wiehoff.

P R O G R A M

 

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 1;;

REGISTRATION - EXHIBITS
RECEPTION
INFORMATION — INTRODUCTIONS

KEYNOTE ADDRESS BY DR. MICHAEL
'W. FOX: "RETURNING T0 EDEN:
ANIMAL RIGHTS AND HUMAN
'RESPONSIBILITY". Dr. Fox, noted
author of books on animals, is
Director of the Institute for
the Study of Animal Problems, a
division of the Humane Society
of the United States, wash.,D.C.
Taking the title from his most
recent book, Dr. Fox will apply
his scientific knowledge and
compassionate understanding in
providing an overview of our
current treatment of animals.

SATURDAY. W .12

FACTORY FARMING

Dr. Michael Fox will speak on
the increasingly mechanized
methods of confinement of farm

animals. Panel.

Break

\AJJ-E-PW




A.M.
10:45

P.M.
12:30

2:00

3:00
4:00
4:30
5:00

6:00
7:00
8:00

COMPANION ANIMALS

Panel discussion to focus on
the problems of pet overpopu-
lation and animal research.

LUNCH

SPEAKER, DR. JOHN P. BRANTNER:
"VEGETARIANISM". Dr. Brantner
is a Health Care Psychologist
and Professor in the Dept. of
Psychology, Univ. of Minnesota.

WILDLIFE

Panel discussion on the treat-
ment of wildlife: focus on
hunting and trapping, with
particular emphasis on wolves
and coyotes. Environmental
hazards may be explored.

WORKSHOPS
Break—REPORT BACK TO LARGE GROUP
DEPART BY BUS FOR SCIENCE MUSEUM

"THE GREAT BARRIER REEF"
Omnitheater's Omnimax showing
of marine life in the world's
largest coral reef by Australia.
A fascinating experience£*'

RETURN TO THE MARRIOTT
BANQUET

KEYNOTE ADDRESS BY CLEVELAND
AMDRY: "A PERSONAL VIEW".
Cleveland Amory is President
of The Fund for Animals Inc.,
N.Y., noted author of ManKIND?
and crusader for the defense
of wildlife.

* Trip to Omnitheater is
optional

10:30

P.M.
12:00

1:00
1:30

SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER‘gQ.

INDIVIDUAL PRESENTATIONS
RELATED TO ANIMALS

9:00 RELIGION - ETHICS

9:30 ART - HUMANE EDUCATION
10:00 CURRENT AND FUTURE ACTION

Break — WORKSHOPS combining
above issues.

BRUNCH

SPEAKER, DR. CHARLES R. MAGEL:
"GETTING OFF THE BACKS 0F
ANIMALS". Dr. Magel, Professor
and former Chairman of the Dept.
of Philosophy at Moorhead State
University, speaks and writes
on animal rights and experimen-
tation as related to the human
condition.

CHECK OUT

TOURS - INFORMAL BRAINSTORMING
Organized tours being arranged
to Minnesota Zoological Garden
(one of U.S.A.'s finest) and to
the Univ. of Minnesota's Raptor
Research and Rehabilitation
Center (RRRC) who released the
rehabilitated eagle “Freedom"
upon the release of the former
Iranian hostages). See else-
where for individual touring
suggestions.

This time may also be used for
informal brainstorming'sessionso

 

Questionranswer periods and dis-
cussions of products to boycott
will take place during sess1ons.

Additional, nationally known and
local speakers and panelists are
being scheduled to part1c1pate.

 




Ins. J. C. Yarbrough
3149 King Arthur Court, N. E.
Atlanta, Ga. 30345

July 9, 1981

Honorable Sam Nunn
Honorable Matt Mattingly
Honorable Elliott B. Levitas
Washington, d. C.

Dear Gentlemen:

For some time now I have been gathering from various newspapers and magazines,
articles and stories on the idiot who was chosen to be Secretary of the Interior.
In my opinion — and that of thousands of other Americans - Reagan really pulled

a real booboo this time - appointing a man like James Watt in charge of our natural
resources.

It is difficult for me to believe that one man has the power to determine the fate
of our National Parks, forests, resources as seems to be indicated in this case.

Is this true - can watt determine whether or not our National Parks and Forests,
National Refuges, etc. are to be turned over to the states for handling? If this
is true, then there is something very definitely wrong with our laws, and this
should be changed immediately. I believe you will find the majority of Americans
feel the same way. I haven't fought and'written letters by the hundreds for the
past 12 years to have this so—called "born-again" christian louse up everything for
America. I questioniis ”born-again" religion, and anyone who would make the state-
ment: ”1 do not know how many future generations we can count on before the Lord

returns”, knows nothing in the world about religion or Jesus Christ. He is an
idiot! .

Can't someone in our Congress put a rein on this man before he really does ruin
PUBLIC LAND. It never did belong to the states, and why they think they should
now have the right to take charge of these lands is more than I can understand.

Please do what has to be done to see that the Crane Refuge in Texas is NOT TURNED
OVER to the state of Texas for development and ruin. Texas has an abominable record

when it comes to preserving natural resources and wildlife; let's not add to that
record.

Please do not let the 1971 Wild Free-Roaming Horse and Burro Act be gutted by

this man. Wild Horse Annie (velma Johnston) fought like hell for 20 years to

see that these animals were accorded protection - is all her work to go for naught?
Of course, she had the backing and support of millions of other concerned citizens
to help bring about this Act. The Adoption Program is going very well from.what I
have read, so why change it? I realize the cattlemen and sheepmen are putting
pressure on Watt, but the preference of ALL ANERICANS should take priority.

Before anything is done to change the status of any of our protective laws, or
our National Parks, Forest, Refuges, the.American public should be allowed to de-
cide what is to be done - not a menace like this man watt.

Please let me hear from you on these matters.
Sincerely,

Encls.
cc: G. William.Whitehurst

0/060 .. MW

 




 

 

 

A55 ﬂee/515:) ﬁnes 7-é~57/

Damage to Redwoods Worries Foresters

 

Bears Put the Bite on Bark

By CHARLES HILLINGER, Times Staff Writer

EUREKA, Calif—State‘fish and game biolo-
gists Gary W. Monroe and Pat Mclaughlin,
checking a 70,000-acre timber farm, had just
found another black bear in one of their 6-foot-
long, culvert-type traps.

It was the sixth they had caught in two weeks. .

Monroe placed an open jar of strawberry jam
next to a hole. in the trap. The bear’s tongue
flicked through the hole into the jar. As the ani-
mal concentrated on the jam, McLaughlin jabbed
it with a tranquilizer needle.

Then the two men waited for 15 minutes before
opening the trap and dragging the unconscious
bear out where they could examine it.

The bear was a male and they concluded from
its teeth that it was 4 years old. They took blood
samples, made notes about its physical condition
and weighed it ( 156 pounds).

Then they put a radio collar around its neck.

An hour and a half later, the bear awoke and
disappeared into the woods, a groggy participant
in a project aimed at stopping the severe damage
black bears have caused to redwood trees in this
region.

One area has been hit so hard by the bears,
which have killed many of the trees by clawing
off bark to get at the thin underlayers of sugary
cambium, that US. Fish and Wildlife officers
have been authorized to shoot a dozen of the ani-
mals.

By mid-June eight had. been killed. Monroe
said the dead bears were being studied to learn
whether they had been eating cambium, the liv-
ing tissue of new growth directly beneath tree
bark.

“It’s a problem we’ve been living with for sev-
eral years, but it has really gotten out of hand the

last three or four years,” said Christopher P.
Rowney, 33, forester for Louisiana-Pacific Corp.
owner of the vast timber farm.

Some of the bears climb as high as 125 feet up
the redwoods, shredding the bark and scraping
off the sugary material with their teeth. Rowney
said the heavy damage is done during a 2%-
month period in spring and early summer

Rowney estimated that a single bear can de-
stroy $16,000 worth of lumber in a season. He said
he believes there are more than 100 bears on the

,M... ..._-.~...—~.~,,_~._ -1.“ 4....
.

Christopher Rowney, forester for Louisiana-

' Pacific Corp., findsxtree damage disturbing.

' timber farm—adding up to a potential $1. 6-mil-

lion timber loss.

But he conceded that conducting bear hunts on
the farm would not do much good for the compa-
ny’s public image. So the state Department of
Fish and Game was asked to help.

Monroe, 48, who is fish and game supervisor for
Humboldt and Del Norte counties, noted that un-
der the law the department is obligated to issue
permits for the killing of animals if they are caus-
ing property damage.

But, he said, Louisiana-Pacific asked the de-
partment to find “alternate ways" to reduce
damage to the redwoods.

Monroe and McLaughlin, 37, began studying
the problem last August and setting bear traps on
the timber farm.

Please see BEARS, Page 19

 

 

 




Continued from Third Page

“We didn’t catch any bears in the traps last year." ad-
mitted McLaughlin, who was not certain why. But re-
cently the two wildlife biologists began setting traps
again—this time with success. .

A black bear is lured in the direction of a trap by
chunks of meat from road-killed deer tied to tree
branches. Then it is drawn to the trap by the smell of
the bait: canned cat food, strawberry jam and apple
wme.

Once inside. the bear goes fOr the strawberry jam
smeared on the burlap-covered trigger and a wire gate
slams shut behind it.

The biggest bear trapped so far weighed 384 pounds.
Monroe said the radio-collared bears will be moni-

A

 

 

L

tored to learn whether they spend the entire. year in
these woods.

“We want to find out everything we can about them,"
he said—whether only certain bears attack the trees.
whether there is enough food of other types for them
and why bears go after some redwoods while ignoring
others. _

Some options are being considered. For example, the
Louisiana-Pacific plantation—closed to hunting for 15
years—could be opened to bear hunters during the
state’s regular 11/2-month season.

But the company is reluctant to permit hunters to
wander around its property.

Rowney said the company hopes that, for its public
image, if nothing else. the state fish and game experts
can solve the problem without hunting.

Government biologist Tim Burton examines unconscious bear. He will next take blood sample.

 

 

 




 

t“:

Phil Kerby

 

[#77M55 . 7-9.» 8/

l
l
J
L,

_  We Must Protest Natural ResourCes for Our Posteritjy

 

Neither can his mind be thought to be in tune,
‘ whose words do jarre, nor his reason in frame,

whose sentence is preposterous. ' -
--Ben Jonson

When asked by a congressional committee
whether he favored preserving the nation ’s re-
sources for future generations, Secretary of the
Interior James G. Watt replied:

“I do not know how many future generations
we can count on before the Lord returns."

As is his invariable custom, Watt had it back-
ward. The question is not how many future gen-
erations we can count on, but whether this gen-
eration will be a faithful trustee of the inheri-
tance of future Americans.

, This strange man Watt wields enormOUs poW-
3' er over the future. He runs the National Park
Service. He runs the Bureau of Land Manage-
ment that covers 400 million acres. He runs the
3 Bureau of Reclamation that administers the
huge federal irrigation projects in the West. He
enforces the nation’s strip-mining laws and
those that protect endangered species and other
2"; wildlife. He controls the mineral rights on mil-

' lions of acres of national forests, and oversees

the development of offshore petroleum deposits
on the outer continental shelf.

These vast responsibilities might humble the
most self -confident official, but not Watt. He has

the confidence of a fellow in a ward who is con-
vinced he is Napoleon. “I speak in black-and-
white terms without much gray in my life,”
Watt told an-interviewer. “I see problems with-
out the complexity that is confusing to alot of
people. I don’t create complexity. I solve prob-
lems and see things in simple terms.”

And, protected by the thick armor of intellec- '

tual simplicity, Watt has been furiously active
during his few months in power. He abolished
the department agency charged with acquiring
additional federal park lands. He reopened sec-
tions of the California coast to prospective off -
shore drilling. He relaxed strip-mining controls.
He increased mineral leasing rights on federal
land, including designated wilderness areas. He
dropped 50 attorneys from the department’s so-
licitor’s office who had been assigned to investi-
gate violations of environmental rules, and he
cut by 40% the funds devoted to protecting en-
dangered species.

Watt’s latest triumph is the apparent destruc-
tion of the Santa Monica Mountains national
Recreation Area that stretches from Hollywood
to Ventura County and was authorized binon-
gress in 1978, Watt does not like urban parks and-
makes no exception for the Santa Monica propo-
sal. This year’s funds for land acquisition have
been cut from $20 million to $6 million. What is

hideously fascinating about the reduction is that
it represents about 96% of all such cuts made
throughout the Park Service system. _
That crippling slash inspired some morbid
curiosity because the recreation area was once
considered by the Park Service to be a fine ex~
ample of its efforts to place more parks near
huge population centers. When the curious in-
quired of the Interior Department for an explan-

ation, department officials dummied up.
G. Ray Arnett, assistant secretary for land,

water and parks, retreated in silence from all
questions. A spokesman for the National Park
Service copped out and said darned if he could
find anybody who would squeal officially. Final-
ly, Russell Dickinson, director of the National
Park Service, got on the telephone and pleaded
innocent when asked why the Santa Monicas
ranked 23rd on a new priority? list of park
projects.

Park supporters are more than somewhat irri-
tated at Watt’s raiders. Susan Nelson, president
of the lonely Friends of the Santa Monica Moun-
tains, suspects that “Reagan and Watt are lis- ‘
tening to the big landowners in the mountains
who don’t want a park under any circum~

stances.”
That’s easy enough for Susan Nelson to say,

but if the park is established, can she tell us how .
many generations we can count on to use it?

 




 

 

Opposition to ‘development’ of public lands

OAK PARK—I must take issue with Burr
Martin’s argument in his June 22 Voice of
the People letter for economic “develop-
ment” of the national parks. He defines
“opportunity cost” as “the value of a re-
source in its most profitable alternative
use.’ ’The question is: profitable to whom?
Answer that question, and the argument is
exposed for the fraud that it is.

If you reduce all values 1n life to monetary
terms,
money from the exploitation of resources
. that belong to all'Americans, then I suppose
you would support Interior Secretary James
" Watt and the Reagan proposals.

Let’ 5 take this argument of “opportunity
cost” and apply it to another area in life:

Undoubtedly, it is easier to make money if
' one has no scruples about lying, cheating,
. and stealing If one ’5 economic condition
can be immeasurably improved by these
means, what then is the “opportunity'cost”
of 'honesty and integrity? Can we afford
these virtues? Can we “pay the price”?

Now, let’s turn the “cost/benefit” argu-
ment around:

if you are in a position to make

What is the cost of permanently destroy-
ing our country’s last preserves of natural
beauty.

0 Depleted resources—when they’re gone,
they’re gone forever. Then what do we do
for coal, -,oil water, clean air, minerals?
Nuke some other country and grab what
they have? '

O Upset balance of nature—it’s conve-
nient to ignore the fact thathum‘ans are part
of a total ecological system whose ability to
regenerate itself does have limits. When
those limits have been exceeded, there is no
turning back.

0 A ravaged land—it would be devoid of
natural beauty. We' would become a spiri-
tually depleted people whose only values
would be money and greed.

Is all this really worth a few million
dollars in the pockets of one generation of
greedy people? Are we really planning to be
the last generation on Earth? It would seem

"so, but I don’t believe it.

- Kathleen Spears Hopkins

_~_“.-_..

 




 

'M 7, ﬁrms " “‘7’ $081

US. Considers Ceding
Control of Crane Refuge

 

The Washington Star

WASHINGTON, July 7 — Interior Sec-
retary James G. Watt is considering
transferring to the State of Texas con-
trol over the Matagorda Island wildlife
refuge in the Gulf of Texas, the winter.
ing grounds for the last of the nation’s
whooping cranes.

In a letter to Gov. William Clements
of Texas, Mr. Watt said he was “in-
clined to transfer management respon-
sibilities to states where possible” and
had called for a review of the status of
the 19,000-acre refuge. Previous Interior
Secretaries have rebuffed Texas’s ef-
forts to obtain the land.

A copy of Mr. ~Watt’s letter was
released yesterday by Defenders of
Wildlife, a conservation group, which
said that a transfer could lead to com-
mercial development of this part of the
Aransas National Wildlife Refuge.

John W. Grandy, executive vice presi-
dent of the group, said that the move
would end Federal protection for the
largest remaining population of whoop-
ing cranes, a critically endangered spe-
cies.

Conservationists’ Objection

“Removing the Federal lands from
the Aransas Refuge so that the state of
Texas may permit recreational uses in-
consistent with the refuge system’s
strong conservation mandate, would
show a singular disregard for the public
trustandwouldbeanassaultonthein.
tegrity of the whole refuge system,” he
said.

' “It would also have severe implica-
tions for the other endangered species of
Matagorda Island whose survival is
closely linked to isolation from human
disturbance. These species include
brown pelicans, Southern bald eagles,
Arctic peregrine falcons, American alli-
gators and several endangered sea tur-
tles The Endangered Species Act of 1973
defines the protection of ered
species as the responsibility of Federal
agencies, not the states.”

Mr. Grandy said that under Federal .

protection the whooping crane popula-
tion had increased from 15 in 1941 to 78
this year.

Matagorda Island is part of the bar-
. rier island chain in the Gulf of Texas be
' tween Corpus Christi and Galveston.
. Part of it was formerly an Air Force
base, but in 1971 the service gave the

land to the Interior Department.

Opposed State Control
Texashasbeentryingtoacquirethe
‘ refuge property for recreational pur-
;. poses but has been rebuffed for several
years. The island was set aside as a ref-
. uge by President Roosevelt in 1937 ..
.. Under both the Nixon and Ford Admin-
istrations, the Department of the In-
~Lelrzgareaffirm' edtheneedtoretainthe

. “-_._-‘_..._. . . .-

 

In 1977, Interior Secretary Cecil D.
Andrus headed off a move by the Gen-
eral Services Administration to transfer
to Texas some of the former Air Force
land. Mr. Watt, in his letter to Mr. Clem-
ents on May 29, said he was asking his
department’s lawyers to review the
transfer rejected by Mr. Andrus.

The Defenders of Wildlife group also
released Interior Department memo-
randums making up “a draft list of 21
refuges recommended for disestablish-
ment by the Fish and Wildlife Service’s
regional directors.”

Mr. Watt has adamantly denied that
any move is under way ending Federal
authority over any refuges. A memoran-
dum from G. Ray Amett, director of the
Fish and Wildlife Service, assured Rep-
resentative John F. Seiberling, Demo-
crat of Ohio, last month that “there is no
intention for deauthorizing any wildlife
refuges.”

But an internal memorandum dated
March 9 listed national wildlife refuges
considered “possible candidates for dis-
establishment.” including the 229,000-
acre Sevilleta Refuge in New Mexico.
Another refuge, the 7,604-acre Buffalo
Lake refuge in Texas, was considered
for dropping.

Alsoonthelistare3,200acres inOys-
ter Bay, N.Y., which the departmental
memorandum said was included be-
cause the town had sought protection
”as a political move to stop bridge by
local community”; four acres on the
Susquehana River in Maryland, 3,868
acres of Lake Thibadeau in Montana,
1,681 acres of Hewitt Lake in Montana,
the 16,806-acre Pathfinder Refuge in
Wyoming and the 7,000-acre Audubon
Refuge in North Dakota, which “should
be turned over to the state when dises-
tablished.”

A spokesman for the service said the
list was only a budgetary exercise.

 

I _.__.-- —-

 

 

/ 1
'ﬂ ;
0 MA TAGORDA
ISLAND

l

I .
Gulf of Mexico

MILES
Y
50

 

,1
100

 

mm York Times/Julys, mi

—
'

 

 




ATLANTA JOURNAL/ CONSTITUTION - July 5, 1981

Letters

Bogfighfing not so cruel; Humane

The Editors: A member of the board
of directors of the Atlanta Humane Soci-
ety in a June 14 letter stated, “Now it's
brutal enough if men do this, but they
choose to do it, an animal has no choice.
It is trained to fight by its greedy
owners who are hoping to make a for-
tune in an illegal activity. As our law
now states, it is merely a misdemeanor
to show cruelty to animals.”

I wish to challenge her to prove that it
is cruel to fight two dogs, two chickens,
or two men that want to do so of their
own free will. I would also like for the
people in Georgia to be aware of the
number of animals, mostly dogs, that the

Humane Society puts to sleep each year'

because no one wants them. If you think
you are doing a dog or cat a favor by
taking it to the Humane Society, you are
very mistaken.

,She also states that these dogs are
literally torn apart. I would have to say,
by this statement, she has never seen
this, neither have 1. She also states,
“They are nursed back to health so once
more they can be torn apart.” If they
were torn apart it would be awfully hard

to do anything with them. It would be
simpler to destroy them like the Humane
Society does. . . .

ROBERT SWETMAN

President

Southern States Pit Bull Club
Avondale Estates

Sociefy destroys many

animals

 




 

City Council Repeals Law
Allowing Sale of Animals
to Research Laboratories

By MARITA HERNANDEZ, Times Staff Writer

The Los Angeles council chambers filled with the shrieks and
wild cheering of pet lovers Tuesday as the City Council repealed
a 30-year-law'allowing sale of unclaimed animals in city shel-
ters for use in medical research.

The emotional issue that has pitted pet protection against
medical science for more than a year was settled by a 10-3 vote,
the second and final vote on the measure approved by the coun -
cil on a preliminary tallymore than a month ago1 Cauncil mem- »
bers Marvin Braude, Joy Picus and Joel Wachs" cast dissenting
votes. ‘

Earlier during the meeting, the council rejected a substitute

- proposal by Picus to impose a 2-month moratorium on the sale

of animals for research and allow for further study. Picus said
more time was needed to strike a compromise to provide pet
owners a better opportunity to retrieve their animals from the
pound, while allowing continued sale of unwanted animals to
medical research facilities. '

Until now, strays unclaimed for five days at city shelters
could have been sold to reputable medical research laboratories.
Of the 82,000 animals impounded at city shelters each year,
about 37% are claimed and about 2%, or 17,000, are sold to hos-
pitals, medical schools and research labs. The remainder, about
50,000 are destroyed. _, ‘

75/, 9/
1105th mime: ’

ANIMALS: Law Repealed ‘

Continued from First Page

Throughout the controversy, ani-
mal protection groups had lobbied
for such a ban on sale of animals for
research. Researchers have claimed
that a ban would inhibit medical
progress since animal research is
the basis of many health accom-
plishments.

Councilwoman Peggy Stevenson,
who brought the issue before the
council through a recommendation
from the Police, Fire and Safety
Committee which she chairs, said
the substitute proposal would “just
buy time.”

“This is an item whose time has
definitely come,” she said, adding
that she would renew the issue until
it passed.

While those favoring repeal did
not deny the importance of scienti-
fic experimentation on animals,
they said researchers could use ani-
mals bred for research, without en-
‘ dangering household pets. (Medical
researchers have said that the
higher cost of animals bred for re-
" search—as much as four times as
L , those sold at the pound—would re-

' suit in less medical research.)

Councilman Wachs, who opposed
the measure, argued that the result

 

of putting impounded, animals “to
sleep humanely,” while using those ‘ ‘
specifically bred for research in 12.6“ ‘
labs, will be that more animals will
die. ‘ ‘ - » '

“How can society kill more ani-
mals in the name of humane treat-
ment?” he asked. “It’s cruel to give
life to an animal solely to take it for
research.”

Councilman Braude agreed, add-
ing that he cannot “turn my back on
medical tradition,” especially when
thousands of animals are abandoned
by their owners each year, creating
a public nuisance.

 




 

ST RAIGH T SHQTS

 

 

 

The American Humane Association, (inset) Courtesy United Artists Corp.

453%

Horse tripped by a running W in an old cowboys-and-Indians shoot-
’em-up; (inset) ‘Heaven’s Gate’ director C imino: cruelty or artistry?

RAISING HELL Hédges. "He was returned in

appalling condition. Psycho-
OVER ‘HEAVEN’ . logically, he’s a different
' ‘ horse.” A veterinarian’s report

TO ANIMAL lovers, the box4 described Rasran as anemic,
office bomb Heaven’s Gate, even 150 pounds underweight, and
in its shortened version, lasted ‘ suffering from sores, swellinggv
an eternity. According to eye- and skin disease.United Artists
witnesses at least three horses says the charges are unsubstan-
died during the filming in tiated. .
Montana and Idaho. Some re— Comments POpe',wh0 waged
ports put the toll of horses at avigorous boyc0tt of Heaven’s ,
five, saysCarmelita Pepe, di- Gate, “Cimino is a talented
rectorofthe Hollywood chapter man, but he needs to be T
of the American Humane As- leashed”.
sociation. The movie also 211- , —RITA ROBINSON
legedly made liberal use of the .
”running W,” a device that
trips horses 'in midga110p, pro-
ducing specracular falls. P0pe
says her information came from
film-crew members afraid to go
public.

'Mary Irene Hodges of Los
.Angeles, however, has filed a
$1-mil-lion-plus civil suit
against several people involved
with the United Artists film,
including direcror Michael
Cimino and- head wrangler
Rudy Ugland. Hodges leased
her purebred Arabian, Rasran, i
to the prodUCtion company at
Ugland’s request. “I don’t
know if he’ll ever recover,” says

 

 

 

SUSAN MENU

 

 

 

ROCKY MOUNTAIN MAGAZINE

 




 

 

[Hunting is Alive and Well

' (The percentage of US. citizens
'who hunt has not declined in recent

pyears and may indeed increase in'

:the 19805, according to an article by
, Lonnie Williamson in the March is-
(sue of The American Hunter maga-

’ Ziﬂe

Contrary to reports by anti hunting

7..?groups and even the U 5 Fish and

Wildlife Service that hunting is de—
clining in popularity, statistics show
that about 7.5 percent of the US.
population bought hunting licenses
20 years ago and about 7.5 percent
buy them today, the article says.
Williamson took the number of li—

l: ” ~ censed hunters reported by states

.9 ' [each year from 1961 to 1979 and

' divided it by the Census Bureau’s
population estimate for each year.
He found that during the 19—year
span, hunting was least popular in
1966, when 14,351,768 (7.34 per-
cent) of America’s 195,539,000

”é people bought at least one type of l

hunting license. Hunting’s high point
during the period came in 1975,
when 7.80 percent of the population
bought licenses. in 1961, the year
state wildlife agencies develop~
ed the current system for report-
ing hunting license sales, there

were 182,287,000 Americans, and

13,896,909 of them (7.62 percent)
bought hunting licenses. By 1979,
the last year for which such statistics

' “were available, the nation’s 909951"

'tion had grown to 219,530,000 and
there were 16,551,886 licensed
. ,f hunters (7.54 percent).

The percentage of licensed hunt- '3

ers in the population might rise in
ggthe next decade, Williamson says, as

<post~war Baby Boomers enter their '
thirties, the age when hunters hunt _

the most. Sport hunting’ 5 popularity
Should also grow if people continue
'- to move from cities to rural areas, he
‘says

“The facts indicate that hunting is ‘
. gnOt the fading tradition that we have

been led to believe,” 'the author '
' concludes "Let s quit being negative
or complacent about this thing we -

enjoy so much ” ' ,_

' muta‘uvﬁu‘pf l?” ' I 'l "’ '

,1 Getting Acquainted

it’s a safe bet that most American
waterfowlers aren’t acquainted with

iohn S. Wilson. But its an equally

safe‘wager that all of the country’s
adult waterfowlers will, to a certain

degree, be acquainted with 'Wilson ,
by the time they hit their favorite '
. potholes and marshes this year. I '.
. ‘ The Si«year-old sign painter from -
-_ i-Watertown South Dakota, assured a,
. himself of this recognition as he won .t
the 1981~82 federal duck stamp Itff="-;..:?plastic and neon signs for 25 years,
”competition on November 6,1980 f.’,f'}gand, being a hunter and fisherman,
' decided to take up wildlife art five
”lg-«years, ago. [Since then, Wilson has
“won the 1979 and 1981 South Da-
1 " kota pheasant restoration stamp de—
sign contests. He also placed second

“and fourth in two recent state duck

_ Wilson 5 tempera painting of adj,»
' pair of ruddy ducks on the water
. stood out as best in the eyes of the
panel of six judges, which included

DU Regional Supervisor Billy Joe

~Cross. The entry topped a record

\

‘ ‘ contest,

1,507 paintings submitted in the

' ' contest. Second place was taken by
' ; Daniel S. Smith of Minneapolis, Min~

nesota, with a (painting of lesser

“We... . .. . , .,........ , . Mm. ,...,.........x;tt,..,,............. .r.w,«......«_......u. .M......, n, ,.

 

1981408221 'Fedeal marinas *

snow and blue geese; third Went to
Ann D. Dohoney, Shawnee, Kansas,
for a redhead rendering

The first South Dakotan to win the
Wilson had taken unsuc-
cessful cracks at it for the previous
two years with paintings depicting

beuffleheads and :blue geese. ,Wilson
”Usays he chose this year’s winning.
ruddies as his subject
jgacause it was a species that hadn’t
been on the Stamp in a long time.

simply be

The seif~taught artist has designed

 

 




 

 

Scannings

 

Mount Rainier Elk:
On the Hit List

his year the spring thaws in Mount

Rainier National Park will expose
miles of deep-rutted trails crisscrossing
the subalpine meadows like a tangled
highway network. Signs of the ever-
increasing blitzkrieg of backpackers?
No, these trails were blazed by another
force—herds of wandering elk. Hun-
dreds of these nomadic creatures have
chosen Mount Rainier as their summer
refuge, creating management problems
bristling with irony:
° Even though most visitors to Mount
Rainier never lay eyes on an elk, the
national park is suffering from an elk
population explosion.
° Even though logging often decimates
wildlife, the widespread clear-cutting of
forests around Mount Rainier actually
encourages proliferation ofthe elk herds.
° Even though the mission of the Na-
tional Park Service is, in part, to protect
wildlife. Mount Rainier rangers want
hundreds of the park’s elk killed.
' Even though a dramatically expanded
elk hunting season appears to be the most
feasible solution to the problem, hunters
are the ones who protest the loudest
against proposals for a special kill.

Elk are relative newcomers to Mount
Rainier. They generally prefer lower ter-
rain, and biologists say that, until re-
cently, few indigenous elk wandered up
the mountain at all. The earliest record of
elk in the park dates back to 1903 , when a
ranger noticed a small herd entering the
park along the Skookumchuck River.
Nine years later, in 1912, the state of
Washington imported 50 Rocky Moun-
tain elk from Yellowstone National Park

.Wag
ranks of hunter“. Along with seven elk
from the SpoEfme 200, the immigrants
were released on the eastern slopes of the
Cascades near Yakima. Gradually, those
transplants ascended the Cascade Range,
and, after a series of forest ﬁres between
1927 and 1931 cleared the southeastern
slopes of Rainier, more elk found their
way into the park. Even so, elk in the
national park were relatively scarce at
that time. But, in recent years, elk have
been invading the park in alarming num-

 

 

Erwin Bauer

is

3 . ' A
. 3. t
'.
i , ' .;

«t 3,,
ti "
”a.

1
, .
O ,-
t
' ‘ .—'. '
' .
v '1 .
I .
.' 3
t I

".
‘1:
..‘1
‘ c

:_' 5, * ’2

bers, sometimes in herds of 100 or more.

In 1973, when it became clear to the
park service that the invasion of elk was a
serious ecological problem, the agency
asked Professor Charles Driver, wildlife
expert at the University of Washington.
to conduct an intensive management
study. Driver, who said he “wore out
three graduate students” tracking 'the
animals through the forests, meadows
and craggy recesses of Mount Rainier,
discovered that approximately 1,200 elk
migrated into the park during the summer
months. causing heavy damage to the
park ’5 ecosystem by trampling subalpine
meadows, destroying fragile mountain
ﬂowers and shrubbery, and stripping
away the bark of small trees.

Why are elk prospering on Mount
Rainier, an area they naturally shunned?
Surprisingly, researchers found that
clear-cut logging creates an environment
highly favorable to elk. Since the winter
range—which usually limits wildlife
growth—is artiﬁcially bountiful with
tender young vegetation, it no longer
thins the herds. In winter the herds spread
out, searching for low-lying logged
areas. (Some elk have been seen grazing
as far south as the golf course in
Packwood.) But in summer, as recreation
trafﬁc rushes into the low-lying terrain,
the elk retreat to the protected slopes of
Mount Rainier.

Professor Driver estimated that the
park’s ecosystem can accommodate only
600 elk. Most recent estimates put the
present summertime population some-
where around 1,500, meaning that the
park service is stuck with the problem of
somehow getting rid of 900 elk. Some of

the suggested management options are ,

clearly impractical (building a fence

around the park, for example, or driving
the elk out with helicopters); others are
politically unlikely (halting logging
around the park); some are morally re-
pugnant (a dragnet by rangers armed with

high-powered riﬂes).

The most feasible proposal so far 1
seems to be controlling the herds through j
sport hunting. But even that option gen-
erates considerable political heat. Sport
hunters are against a greatly expanded
hunting season because they fear it would :

wipe out elk hunting in future years.
Local residents don’t like the idea be—
cause they enjoy watching the elk browse
around their homes in winter. Even the
Washington state game department,
which appears to be successfully stabiliz-
ing the population of elk on the south side
of Rainier after gingerly beginning a spe-
cial hunt in 1976, is reluctant to open a
special harvest.

That reluctance stems from a basic
disagreement between the game depart-
ment and the park service on the mag—
nitude of the problem on the north side of
the mountain. “We haven't seen data that
lead us to believe there is a serious prob—
lem,” said game department spokesman
Mik Mikitik.

Further complicating matters, the
Muckleshoot Indian tribe says that a
century-old treaty entitles them to at least
a portion ofthe elk harvest—a claim the
state argues is invalid since elk are, tech-
nically, an introduced species.

Several dozen elk now wander around
the park with red streamers clipped to
their ears and ﬁve—inch-long numbers on
their necks, part ofa park service attempt
to arm itself with a battery of data estab-
lishing without a doubt that hunting the
northern herd would not endanger elk
living outside the park. But establishing
the need may be just the beginning. As
one game department ofﬁcial put it,
“We’ve got other problems with a special
hunt on the north herd: We’ve got hunter
problems, we’ve got Indian problems.
we’ve got subdivision problems, and

 

 

we’ve got ski-area problems. And we’ve
got to ﬁgure out some way to set these 2
hunts up in an aesthetically pleasing *

99

way.
Scott Maier

 

May 198] ° Paciﬁc Northwest

9

 




The Reagan Administration has
backed the standard U.S. position in
favor of a ban on all commercial
whaling, although such a moratori-
um wiil be difficult to pass at the
IWC because the nine whaling na-
tions are expected to have enough
votes to block it.

As an alternative to the total ban,
whale supporters are pushing for a
ban on commercial whaling in the
Northern Atlantic, which some
members feel may have a chance if
the United States appears to be
firmly behind it. Whether the Unit-
ed States will broadcast that im-
pression is unclear. Some whaling
officials believe that since the Unit-
ed States recently convinced the
IWC to allow Alaskan Eskimos to
hunt bowhead whales as part of
their cultural heritage, it will be dif-
ficult to push for a moratorium on
the other side of the continent.

Contradiction Cited

“Until this contradiction is re-
solved by stopping the bowhead
hunt, the United States cannot hope
to lead the IWC to a moratorium.”
Dr. John E. Kelly, research profes-
sor of science and public policy at
the University of New Hampshire,
argued recently at a Senate hearing
on US. 'whaling policy. .

“Quite the contrary, the United
States can expect to be viewed with
suspicion and disrespect, which be-

 

fits one who condemns another for

crimes which he himself commits.”

Morever, the whaling nations, in
particular the J apanese, are pushing
the Reagan pe0ple to accept the
view that whale meat is a part of
J apan’s culture and heritage, just as
it is for Eskimos.

“The Japanese have a hard time
realizing how many Americans feel
about this issue,” says Bert Ingalls
Hickman Jr., a Washington lobbyist
for the Japanese whaling industry.
“The Japanese, for whom whale
meat is part of their tradition, see
whales as a renewable resource just
like Americans feel about timber.”

Japan Chief Market

Hickman, who noted that 45,000
whales were being killed each year
when the whaling commission be-
gan meeting in 1973, says now that
13,851 are “harvested” according to
IWC limits. Japan is also the chief
market for most whales killed com—
mercially around the world, and has
banned whale meat not caught ac-
cording to IWC rules. _

"‘We realize there is no support
for whaling in this country politi-
cally,” Hickman said, “but Ameri-
cans have got to understand about
the Japanese. Who got them back
into whaling after World War II?

. We did. Gen. (Douglas) MacArthur

helped get the (Japanese) whaling
fleets going again because the

country needed food.”

As the Reagan Administration
weighs the complex arguments over
international whaling, some offi-
cials are quietly monitoring those
outside the IWC framework—either
the few so-called “pirate Whalers”
who do not go by the international
rules or the likes of Paul Watson,
who do notbelieve that whales are
saved by- white papers and polite
commissions.

“I’m a self —appointed police
force,” said Watson, whose tactics
are not supported by most environ-
mentalist organizations. “The IWC
is a powerless body. It doesn’t save
whales; it just tells these people how
many whales they can slaughter.”

Says one Administration whaling
expert: "‘He can say that kind of
thing to us, and it’s OK. If he anta-
gonizes the Russians up there, he
might just disappear under an ice-
berg.”

 




U ..S Anti-Whaling

By ELEANOR RANDOLPH,
Times Staff Writer

ALEXANDRIA, Va.—Paul Wat-
son, the commander of a small crew
of intense young eco-guerrillas, was
explaining how he is ready to cause
an international incident, if neces-
sary, to spare the lives of his ocean—
bound friends, as he calls them, the
great gray whales.

“We’re going after the Soviets
this season,” Watson said recently
as he sat in the bleak captain’s
quarters of his rusty trawler, the
Sea Shepherd II. .“We’re going to
put this vessel, and our bodies, real-
ly, in between that big Soviet wha-
ler up off the coast of Alaska, and
we’re going to do whatever’s neces-
sary-short ~of harming people or
whales-40 stop this slaughter of
the grays.”

Watson, Whose weaponless bat—
tleship has since started making its
way to the West Coast for last-min-
ute fund-raisers before any such
encounter, is accustomed to fighting
for whales in an unorthodox way.
Watson and his friends first came to
public attention as whale vigilantes
in 1979 when he rammed the first
Sea Shepherd into a Portuguese
whaling ship, the Sierra, crippling it
until other whaling foes could at—
tach a magnetic mine to its hull for
the final destruction.

Undercurrent of Issue

“If anything happens up there
with the Soviets, they will be the
ones causing the international in—
cident, not me,” said the 30-year—
old Canadian. “The Soviets are the
ones conducting the massacre, not
me. '

If Watson’s plan seems extreme
and perhaps foolhardy, the Sea
Shepherd and its mostly British and
American crew is just one of the un-
expected undercurrents the Reagan
Administration has discovered
lurking in an issue that was sup—
posed to provide easy sailing.

As any good politician knows,

saving the whales is almost the po- ’

litical equivalent of supporting the
Boy Scouts. Millions of Americans,
except for some of the whaling Es-
kimos in Alaska, seem to have a
special yearning to protect the des-
cendants of Moby Dick. As many in
the save-the-whale movement see
it, these gentle, intelligent ocean-
going mammals have a more com-
plex social structure .than a, good
many of their human neighbors.

But if befriending the whales is
good politics in many parts of this
country, it provokes problems else-
where—not only between Watson
and the Soviets but with this coun—
try’s much-beleaguered allies, the
Japanese.

“Japan has always been a firm ‘

friend and ally of the United
States,” said Alan Macnow, consul:

Los Ange} es Times

Paul Watson, center, with colleagues Peter Woof and Jerry Doran
aboard original Sea Shepherd. Their struggle to save whales goes on.

tant to the Japan Whaling Assn, in
testimony June 25 before the Sen-
ate Commerce Committee. “But
within the past few months, a num-
ber of incidents have shaken Ja—
pan’s trust in our country. First, a
US. nuclear submarine sank a Ja-
panese freighter and sped away
without offering any assistance to
drowning seamen.

“Then, there were revelations
that the US. secretly stored nuclear
weapons on Japanese territory. This

was followed by US. warship de- ,’

struction of Japanese fishing gear.
Add to these incidents Japanese re-
sentment over US. pressure for a
reduction in automobile exports and

. you have a very volatile situa—

‘ tion,” Macnow declared.

Whales or Whalers

With less than two weeks before
the Reagan Administration makes
its first representations at an Inter-
national Whaling Commission
meeting, scheduled for July 20 in
Brighton, England, the Administra-
tion appears to be caught in an in-
ternal administrative struggle over
whether to give more support to the
whales or..to Whalers like the J apa-
nese.

This struggle reportedly began
May 18 when Interior Secretary
James G. Watt surprised environ-
mentalists by proposing that his old
friend and fellow Wyoming native,
Tom Garrett, should be named
whaling commissioner at this year’s
IWC meeting. Garrett, an ardent
friend of the whales with intense
feelings about what he regards as
the excesses of the whaling indus-

try, said Watt feels that whales are
“gentle, beautiful creatures that
should never be abused.”

However, Watt’s letter provoked
widespread irritation at the Depart-
ment of Commerce, where Secre—
tary Malcolm Baldrige is supposed
to have the power to choose the
commissioner, and Garrett’s ap—
pointment quickly became a battle
not only over marine mammals but
over bureaucratic turf.

“It was the way Watt did it,” said
one participant in the internal dis-
pute. “If he had just gone to Bald-
rige and said he wanted Garrett. to
be whaling commissioner, it prob-
ably would have been fine. Instead,
he slaps out a press release and let-
ter that says. in effect, ‘We must
support whales because it is right
for America.‘ ”

As a result, Baldrige delayed
making Garrett commissioner until
last week and then appointed him
only as acting commissioner. He
will be replaced next year by the di-
rector of the National Oceanogra-
phic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, the person who normally has
the commissioner’s job.

Confusing Signals

The delays, however, have sent
out confusing signals to interna-
tional whaling experts, acCording to
some of those close to the commis-
sion. “The question will be whether
the United States is going to ap-
proach the IWC politically or scien-
tifically,” said one veteran of whal-
ing wars. “It’s beginning to look
more political with these folks.”

flee Angeles Em: .-

 

E35333 My 5, 1

GE"

.1 k) .1

 




WLFA Membership Protects
YOUR Freedom To Hunt

The WLFA Fights
Anti-Hunters in the
Political Arena
0 in the legislatures
O in Congress

0 in treaty
negoﬁaﬁons
O in lawsuits

You probably read about us in the Feb-Mar. issue of this
magazine. We’re very proud of DU’s congratulations on
our track record.

The WLFA is staffed by political professionals. The
DU editorial said: “The WLFA is effective because of its
singleness of purpose to fight, through legislation and
litigation, efforts of the antis to outlaw sport hunting. . .
we heartily endorse the objectives of the WLFA”

WLFA’s “Freedom to Hunt Fund" for 1981 is $425,000.
We need your contribution HOW. It takes dollars as well
as our professional skills to win these battles. We depend
on hunters and hunting organizations to provide the
dollars because we don’t charge one cent for our serv-
ices. Join us and help protect your freedom to hunt.

Send $15 to WLFA for YOUR Membership

Name

Above: Design of the colorful window decal you will receive,
along with your membership card, your embroidered
shoulder patch, and our quarterly newsletter, UPDATE FOR
HUNTERS.

The signiﬁcant actions, taken by the anti-hunters now, are vigorously
political. There are scores of bills introduced in the legislatures and Con-
gress this year and every year that strive to abolish hunters’ rights. Law-
suits nibble away at your right to hunt Seemingly innocuous decisions,
in court cases, establish precedents that can be far-reaching and disas-

 

Street

 

City State _______.. Zip
Check Enclosed D MasterCard D

Account #

VisaD

JOIN OIIR WINNING
TEAM TODAY

Fill in and mail this membership contri-
bution coupon today. Make checks pay-
able to:

 

Expiration Date

 

Signature

MasterCard 4 Digits __

WLFA (or)
The Wildlife Legislative Fund of America
50 W. Broad St, Columbus, OH 43215

 

 

 

 

mm mm W/ M6 WI

 




~Randy Longino and Janice Jeffries spent a sweltering hodr in a van Thursday ,to avoid facing animal-cruelty charges.
FLORIDA TIMES—UNION/ JACKSONVILLE .. JOURNAL — Aug . 2'9 , 1981.

find dog’s life not always, so cool

Owners

WINTER PARK (AP) — Romeo and
~ 7 Corky might have died in the closed, hot car,
Humane Society officials said So they fixed
it so the punishment fit the offense.

When the owners of the two dogs showed
up, the Humane Society drove a hard bar-
gain: Switch places with the cocker spaniel
and the poodle or go to jail on charges.

So Randy Longino and Janice Jeffries
found out Thursday what a canine endures
while cooped up inside a locked vehicle in
the steaming heat of a Central Florida sum-
mer day.

The couple spent an hour inside their
work van with the windows rolled up after
the society’s president, Dick Myers, offered
that alternative to pressing criminal charg-
es of cruelty to animals.

“The punishment fits, and they were pret- .

ty good sports about it,” said Myers, who at
one time during the couple’s ordeal teased
them from outside with a cold drink

The incident began when passers-by
called the society’s office after the dogs
were spotted in the vehicle parked outside a
motel A bystander used a coat hanger to
unlock the ,car door. . .

‘ When Longino and Ms.- J effries returned
1% hours later, they found a note on the
windshield telling them their dogs had been
seized under a state law that allows suffer-
inxg1 animals to be taken into protective cus-
t y. . '

Longino stormed into the Humane Society
office, demanding to know why his car had
been broken into. He soon calmed down, My-

_ .APU

ers said, when he realized he could be taken

to court over the matter.

The maximum penalty for conviction on a
charge of cruelty to animals is one year in
jail.

So Myers proposed the deal.

They emerged from their hotbox an hour
later, to be greeted by the excited yelps of
Corky, the cocker, and Romeo, the poodle,
who had spent the time in the society’s air-
conditioned office. .

Longino and Ms. Jeffries, originally from
Topeka, Kan, had been staying at a motel
that didn’t allow pets, so they had been leav-
ing them in a car while they worked as
cable-television installers.

A dog can die in less than a half-hour if
left inside an unventilated car on a hot day.

 




By JAMES P. STE 111111
Special to The New York Times

PEKING, Aug. 21 -- As waters from
the second major ﬂood in a month
receded in Sichuan Province this week,
Chinese officials and scientists dis-
that deforestation in C11:

(131113- «r5

pulous provincr 1531 ,3 333

River
. normal
"ﬁrst; 1111's to ﬂow
as}. 111:1?!" s,ystems

.intul lesson,"
of the defore-
in Peking,as

«as.

are in July iei‘t
equal number
h11meiess.1n
. :2: 254111131111 disaster
311111 inst 15 people died

homes were destroys
about 100 million people in

spar, Peo-

: -11~vey by a

ﬁt; '1 sts rot Si shuan’ s 193 coun-
tin only 12 counties did
cost‘ 311‘ oercent of the
Washeng,

ties showed
to meted are
111111! arm = 1. count?
Wl'i.§-1.'L.?i . 1: 1-11dated iast month, tree
cutting over the past three decades had
reduced forests from 24,700 acres to only
138.3 acres.

The newspaper also reported that for.
ests in central Sichuan, where the July
ﬂooding was most severe, covered less
than 3 percent of 27 counties that were
formerly considered tobe for as!

Partly as. a result, the scientists
found, hundreds of millions of tons of
valuable topsoil is being swept down
rivers annually, reducing the area of
land able to sustain crops or even trees

 

 

 

 

 

- Na. Chine via {1.11.1 Pm- summit
According to the ofﬁcial New China News Agency, photo shows houses ﬂooded by Yangtze River earlier this month in Chongqing in China’s Sichusn province
of careful tree and grass planting an .

cultivation to restore watersheds an
grasslands.

and grass. I ers were authorized to strip the land of that had held back the deserts.
Under the edicts of Mao Zedong, such trees in order to plant wheat and corn, Scientists and agriculture officials
as “Take grain as the key link, " farm and to plow up grasslands in the north have estimated that it will take decades

 




ATIANTA JOURNAL/CONSTITUTION - August 23, 1981

Rampagingﬂoods
in China are blamed
on felling of trees .

By MICHAEL PARKS

The Los Anoeles Times »

PEKING -— The extensive floods in southwest China’s
Sichuan province this month and last were due in large
part to the wholesale felling of trees along the upper
Yangtze River over many years, destroying the natural
watershed there, according to Chinese officials.

Tan Oilong, the Communist Party first secretary in
Sichuan, China’s most papulous province, said that the
area’s forests - and with them the ecological balance --
had been virtually destroyed.

“This painful lesson should be used to educate our
people for generations to come,” Tan said in an article in
‘ the Communist Party newspaper People’s Daily.

The floods killed 768 people, according to official re-
ports, and left more than 1.5 million homeless. Vast areas,
including whole counties, were inundated as the Yangtze
and its tributaries overflowed their banks after heavy
rains in late July and again last weekend.

The destruction of the mountainside forests meant the
loss of the natural protective barrier — the roots that
hold the tapsoil and foliage that shields it — against such
flooding, Tan said. He blamed past agricultural policies
that emphasized the development of all available land, in-
cluding the terracing of hills, to increase grain production.

Zhen Lu, deputy director of China’s Forestry Insti-
tute, also attributed the destruction of the forests to the
emphasis on grain production under former Communist
Party Chairman Mao Tse-tung. Mao declared grain to be
the “key link” for China’s agricultural development and
urged the whole country to emulate the rural brigade in
northern China that had terraced its hills to the tap and
boosted its harvest. *

For the past four years, the Chinese leadership has
been trying to reverse that trend with a massive refore~
station program and strict regulations limiting the felling
of trees. It has plans to increase the country’s forest area,
now less than 13 percent of the land, to 30 percent over
the next 25 years. It is already taking large amounts of
land out of cultivation to plant trees. The plans alsoin~
elude a “green Great Wall,” running across the north of
the country roughly parallel to the old stone Great Wall,
to reduce wind erosion that is turning some areas slowly
into deserts.

In central Sichuan, the area of last month’s ﬂoods,
the forests now account for less than 3 percent of the land
in half of the 53 counties, the People’s Daily reported.

In Wusheng County, for example, 25,000 acres of for-
eats were reduced to 125 acres in the past three decades,
a survey by Chinese scientists found. The county was al-
MQSt comDIQtf-fly flmeﬂlééhmontﬁz ..

ported.

in most areas.

The provinCe is also losing an estimated 640 million

tons of topsoil every year through erosion caused pri-

marily by the destruction of its forests, the scientists re-

Even earlier, the Peeple’s Daily described the
situation in Sichuan as “very critical.” It warned that the
mighty Yangtze might even silt up in a few years if the
trend of deforestation is not reversed and the loss of top-
soil halted. . ‘

In Sichuan, life is returning to normal in all but the
worst of the flooded areas. Farmland where crops were
destroyed has been turned over to the peasants .to raise
whatever they can by themselves, farming indmdually
rather than collectively, to supplement their government

rations. Industrial production has largely been restored, 1

according to official reports, and reconstruction has begun

M

 




Fur group ad Budget

Furs

going totelevision

By J.A. TRACHTENBERG

NEW YORK — In a com-
plete departure from past promo-
tional activities, the American
Fur Industry will invest its entire
advertising budget for the 1981-
,1982 season in a television com—,
mercial and the purchase of air
and cable time.

Ken Wagner, chairman of
the AFI’s advertising committee,
_ said the AFI will commit nearly
$500, 000 for the production and
airing of a 30— second generic com-
mercial created by Leber Katz,
the AFI’ 5 advertising agency.
Last year, the AFI spent nearly
$400, 000 on its promotional efforts,
all of it in print.

Retailers willing to buy
their own local air time will be
able to use the commercial free,

Wagner added There will be

Generic commerCIal
IS on drawmg board

room for a five- second trailer at

the end of the commercial for 10-
‘ cal sales information.

As detailed by Ruth Woo-
lard, Leber Katz account supervi-
sor, the $80, 000 commercial will
go into production Sept. 12 It will
be seen in 11 major markets for a
1 six-week period starting Oct. 12.
The commercial will be aired 12
times a week during early fringe
morning and early fringe evening
viewing, a strategy designed to
reach both the housewife and the
working woman.

“Because so many man-
ufacturers and retailers are run-
ning their own print ads today, we
feel we should be concentrating on
television,” Woolard said. “We’ve
chosen our viewing dates to coin-
cide with peak consumer interest
in furs, coinciding with Columbus
and Thanksgiving Day sales.”

The commercial will stress
the glamorous aspects of furs and
will convey a twenties sense of el-
egance, Woolard continued. Five
women’s furs and one men’s fur
will be shown, although the selec-
tion of which furs will be used has
not yet been decided.

After the commercial is
shot, the remaining $420,000 will
be spent on a small amount of tra-
de paper advertising, and spot TV
buys ,in New York, Los Angeles,
Chicago, Dallas, Pittsburgh, San
Francisco, Philadelphia, Cleve-
land, Boston, Detroit and Wash-
ington.

Leber Katz also plans to

spend $18, 000 during a four-week
cable buy.

“We feel cable targets the
upbeat market we are interested
in,” Woolard said. “We’re talking
about upscale consumers of im-
mediate acquisition.”

Although Woolard said
there will not be any method of
measuring the cable audience
viewing the commercials, she
'said, ’ “Cable time is inexpensive
in comparison to regular broad-
cast time. We have an idea from
private research what kind of au-
dience we’ll be reaching.”

The cable buy will cover 22
spots on Ted Turner’s Cable News
Network, eight spots on “Tele-

. France” and eight spots on the

“English Channel,” on a weekly

basis. {
The success of the AFI pro-
]ect will depend on retailer re-

52:2“ . . . ~ ._ :3.’

sponse, Wagner stressed
“Obviously, we can’t do a com-
plete job for $500,000,” he said.
“We’re getting the ball rolling.
Now the retailers across the coun-
try will have to support this pro-
gram in order for it to work. The
commercial is broad enough in
scope to run through the end of the
fur season.”

'In terms of actual response,
Wagner said manufacturers and
retailers will not see immediate
results. However, he said he at-
tributed much of the growth of the
fur industry during. the last nine
years to the print campaign the
AFI started in 1972.

“You have to create an
image about furs, and then main—
tain that image,” he said. “Tele-
vision will help us create a
positive view of furs in the minds
of the consumers.” ,

Jerry Wagner, president of
the AFI, said the approach is dif-
ferent in that no other apparel
group to his knowledge has spon-
sored a generic television com-
mercial.

“At the same time, such,
groups as the dairy industry. the
cotton industry and the diamond
industry have all invested in ge-
neric commercials, and they ap-
pear to have been satisfied with
the results,” he said. “This is
right for us. We want to tell the
consumer to buy a fur rather than
another luxury item. We hope to
have maximum participation
from retailers.”

186l 'LZ .LSﬁDFlV 'AVCISHHHL 'A'HVC] HVEM S.N3WON\

 




 

 

 

ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICERS— Special police officers (from left) Tom Ballard Harry Swain Jr., and Mike

Rizzo display various devices they use in their work. NeaIly 1, 000 dogs have been picked up by the unit in the

past 18 months. ' Himes Journal photo by James a Urio)
ﬂ ‘

By JAMES P. QUARANTA

Vineland’s animal control unit
has picked up nearly 1,000 dogs
during the past 18 months in ad-
dition to numerous other ani-
mals but none of the special
police officers involved in the
program has been seriously in-
jured.

Headed by Capt. Tom Ballard
of the special police, the unit in-

. cludes Lt. Mike Rizzo, Lt. Harry

Swain Jr. and Sgt. Joe Challow.

'The men are on call 24~hours a
day but they only get paid for
each dog they bring in and re-
ceive no extra pay for hours
worked.

During a normal day, one of
the officers will pick up a list of
animal complaints at police
headquarters and use an old

Vineland Police W
_ with animal control de ices.

"If ﬁi'éy find a dog witlﬁi'cfty‘ii-

(Continued on Page 14, Cd.”

DOG SNARE — Mike Rizzo demostrates the proper use of snare
which is equipped with a rubber collar to prevent injury to the animal
while at the same time keeping the dog away from the officer.

(Times Journal photo by James Bailuriol

 

 

 

 

 

m f Vinelanb , ' 'Eiime a :10 ritual

.‘a’-.

ﬂame..." pm 2 . NEW JERSEYS 'FIRST OFFSET DAILY

callWMorMiS
For inter-city
destinations, call 4558300

 

Average Daily Circulation17,436 j _ Vineland,N.J., Saturday, July4, 1981

Established 1875 Hi1m1e°ngfgzq Twenty Cents

 




(Continued from Page 1)
cense, Vineland Police dis-
patchers are called to check the
license with a city master list.

“If they’re properly tagged we

make every effort to locate the

owner through city records,”
Ballard explained. “If we can’t
~iind the owner then we take the
' dog to the SPCA.”

The local SPCA attempts to
find homes for those animals
that are healthy but others must
be destroyed.

Owners who go to claim their

dogs at the SPCA must pay a _

boarding fee.

Just last year when a child
and his dog fell through the ice
in a pond near a Vineland trailer
park, it was Rizzo who was
called to rescue the stranded an-
~ imal from the icy water after the
youngster had been removed
from the pond. ,
. The animal control officers

were called to Cumberland Mall f
last year when pranksters ap-

parently let a small deer loose
inside the shopping complex.

Dr. Leon Margolin instructed
the officers in the use of a tran-
quilizer gun, sterilization of
darts and the necessary mix-
tures of drugs depending on the
size of the animal involved.

The officers also have the»
' power to issued a summons to.
persons who fail to obtain a dog
license and allow dogs to run at
large.

“We’re also on the lookout for ‘7-
cases of cruelty to animals,” )"

. Rizzo explained. ,I
In some instances the officers
have found cases of extreme

I ‘ DON-B-FRANKSV I

 

_ sullual- Lotne

D o g s
c ,lty to animals. I

“You would not believe what,
some people do to their dogs,”

. Swain said. “We have seen ani-

mals that were not fed for up to
two weeks and we’ve seen others
where ,the collars and chains
were so tight that the skin actu-
ally grew around the collar.”
Swain, who works full time for“

the Army-National Guard at the
Vineland armory, has had 14
years ‘ of military police K-9
service. Ballard is a foreman at

‘ Owens Illinois and Rizzo works

for South Jersey Welding Co.
Their vehicle contains traps, a

tranquilizer gun, dog snare,

rope and various other tools nec-

, essary to catch freightened and

sometimes vicious animals.
“We’ve all been nipped a cou-

ple of times but it goes with the

job,” Rizzo said. “You can’t be

' afraid. You just do your job.”

 

 




Elie Atlanta 301mm!

Section C

. Tuesday, September I, I98I

W

elogfghfng:
One risked

life to stop it

Dog fancier assumed alias
to document state duels

By RUSS DeVAUL‘I‘ .

Journal Staff Writer

Suzanne Stephens, a dog fancier all her life, started
going to dogfights about five years ago. It wasn’t long be.
fore she was known in the secretive society of aliases and
clandestine meetings as an aficianado and amateur
photographer, one always willing to take a picture of a
man and his dog. .

“I became one of them,” she says. “I dressed like
them. I talked like them. I shared their interests. I was
one of them.” .

But not now. Today, she is another person in another
state because other undercover investigators alerted the
Humane Society of the United States to the pOSSlblllty she
might be killed to silence her. . g “

That possibility exists because Ms. Stephens was ’a
catalyst” in the March raid, of a dogfight in Georgia .s
Richmond County, according to Frantz Dantzler, the som-
ety’s national director of Field Services and Investigations
who operates out of Washington. . . ,

He, too, has lived with the threat of reprisal, but hes
the visible investigator, the man who goes along on raids
and is too well-known to attend a fight, perhaps too out-in-
the-Open to really fear for his safety. . _ .

“Those things happen,” Dantzler says of intimations
violence might be used against Ms. Stephens. “But I dont
mean to seem unattached,” he adds. “She’s a very impor-
tant person to us. It does concern me.” . '

Just for the record, it’s too late to eliminateher docu-
mented evidence of fights held almost weekly in Georgia.
Stephens, obviously not her real name, has told the hu-
mane society all she learned during two . years of
attending Georgia dogfights. She has also prov1ded infor-
mation to the Georgia Bureau of Investigation, and it was
when she appeared at a May hearing held by a Georgia
House subcommittee investigating dogfighting that her
cover was blown. _ ,

Neither she nor Dantzler expected people who had es-
corted her to fights to be at the hearing, but she star-
tlingly found herself face to face With Georgians who

‘ were just as startled to team she wasn’t “Just a good old
girl” fascinated by pit bulls and dogfights.

" "“Mo’étdf them went 3.3mm they saw “’9'" 5""

' says. “One gave me a glare, but‘aiter the testimony, I

started taking pictures. . .
“I figured if you’re going to go down, you might as

. well go down working.”

The extra effort wasn’t necessary. Ms. Stephens had
furnished the humane society with names and nicknames,
pictures taken at fights and detailed accounts of Georgia
ights.

She put together a list of places where fights are held
— in and around Augusta, Axson, Brunswick, Canton, Gai-
nesville, Jefferson, Perry, Quitman, Valdosta, Vidalia,
Waycross, Waynesville and along the Ohoopee River.

She put together a list of maple involved and their
hometowns - Augusta, Baconton, Byron, Canton, Colum-
bus, Cartersville, Cumming, East Point, Elberton, Ellijay,
Ellenwood, Gainesville, Hephzibah, Jasper, Jefferson,
Thomaston, Vidalia, Waynesville, Whitesburg and Zebulon.

She included the nicknames used by many to avoid
Open association with dogfighting — Irish Jerry, Jaycee
Shaw, Broadway Jack, RE. Meansville, A. Brew and Pal-~
metto Bob.

They knew her, of course, but only in one of the dozen
or so guises she claims are her in repertoire. Meet her
twice - in a motel room intended to give her anonymity
- and you can believe her.

Sheappears the first time as a blond woman in a red
face mask; the second time she is a petite brunette in a
black mask. The only similarity between the two is a cul-
tured voice that can turn syrupy Southern or brash New
Yorker.

She has little to say about herself, and she’s obviously
skilled in protecting her real identity -— pictures she’s

taken arrive by mail with a typewritten list of fight sites,

nicknames of the people involved and their hometowns.

See FIGHTS, 5C

 

‘_..-w-——_

 




 

She will say she “backed into my first
fight” while doing volunteer work for a hu-
mane society in another state. “We got a
call about an injured dog and I went out to
pick it up in my car,” she says. “I started
talking with the man who had it — it was
a horribly mangled pit bull -— and it was-
n’t long before he Was showing me his
fighting dogs and I was saying I sure
would like to see a fight.”

That was five years ago. Soon Ms. Ste-
phens, involved in animal care and char-
ities all her adult life, was compiling infor-
mation for the humane society. After
attending — and telling the society about
fights~ in Alabama, Florida, Kentucky,
North Carolina, South Carolina and Ten-
nessee, she met and charmed some people
involved in dogfighting in Georgia.

She inveigled her way into their ranks,
becoming such a favorite she was given
two pit bulls, free admission to fights and
once helped select and prepare the site for
a fight.

“I helped locate the area to set up the *

fight,” she says. “I helped set up the pit. I
stood guard while they went to get the
maple coming to the fight to make certain
no undesirables got in.”

There were moments of fear, though.

“The publisher of one dogfight magazine.

was suspicious of me initially,” she says.
“Other investigators have had the same re-
sponse from him, and I didn’t know I was
going to meet him when .I did. I really
wasn’t prepared to face him because of his
reputation for spotting undercover agents.

“He got out of his truck and I was on
the other side. He looked me right in the

eyes and I felt my blood freeze. I knew he

knew who I was and what I was really
doing there; .
“Fortunately, I didn’t falter. ‘Hey, Mr.
so-and-so,’ I said, ‘I read your magazine all
the time.’ He was not receptive the first
time we met, but he was friendlier the sec-
ond time, and we got along after that”

She quickly convinced most other peo-
ple she was “just a good Southern girl who
was no threat to them. I smiled a lot,” she
says. “I can be one of the friendliest peo-
ple you’ll ever meet.”

So friendly, in fact, that the
participants worried about her comfort. “I
was at one fight over in the Okefenokee
Swamp near Waycross,” she says, “and
they didn’t have any bleachers set up. I
was looking around for a place to sit and
two of these fighters, Bo from Macon and
Freddy from Orlando, proceeded to get a
rocking chair and drag it up to the pit for
me so I could get my photographs. I

thought that was very gentlemanly of 1

them, and I told them so.”

Her cover was a part-time job, one 3

that helped support her, and her talent as
a photographer won her friends. She con-
cealed her “great antipathy” toward dog-
fighters, but there were times unsuspecting
men were attracted to her.

“Near the end,” she says, “I used an
engagement ring to ward off the rednecks.
Finally, I had to get ‘married' and some of
the guys gave me two pit bulls for a wed-
ding present.

“Killer and Cannibal were littermates
of puppies selling from $400 to $1,000, so I
was pretty impressed.

“I guess I could have stayed until
doomsday if I’d wanted to and hadn’t gone
to the hearing,” she says. “But it was time

‘ ‘- A —.« —'.L( ‘wW-L‘d ﬁ .9... vv— --»~

to move -- we’d learned all there was to
know about Georgia fighting.”

She told the humane society and GBI
there is more to dogfighting than the ille-
gal matching of one dog against another,
too. Ms. Stephens, who claims to have seen
regular use of drugs and illegal alcohol at
fights, says she witnessed such heavy bet-
ting .she agrees with the G31 contention
dogfighting “is one of the most organized
criminal elements in the state.”

“I’ve seen bets of as much as $25,000
on a number of occasions,” she says. “Bets
of $1,500 and 82,000 were very routine.”

It was, however, the fights themselves
that galled her most and helped prompt
her to go public with her story. “We’ve got

to get the word out to the people that this
IS gomg on,” she says. “What happens to
the dogs is sickening, and the people them-
selves are sick.

“It’s a vicarious proving of one’s self .
for them,” she says. “After a fight, one dog
owner will say to the other, ‘He bit me
real bad. You’re a good fighter.’ It’s
inhumane, and it should be stopped.”

That concern, she contends, explains
her willingness to give up a normal life
and go undercover even if there is a de-

of risk.

“I don’t like these peeple, what they I
do and what they stand for,” she says, for i
once losing control of her carefully modu-
lated voice. “Somebody has to stop them.”

 

 




 

ADVENTURE TRAVEL Sept/Oct 1981

 

IMPACT

 

If Looks Could Kill

When the animals aren’t behind bars,
you can do as much harm with a camera as a carbine.

Animals aren’t the only victims of visitors’ irresponsible behavior. This photographer in Kenya ’5

 

Tsavo Park is inviting attach— and luring baboons into the path ofan oncoming vehicle.

by Barbara Sleeper

EACH YEAR. THOUSANDS of tourists don
tennis shoes, safari outfits, woolies, and
grab camera gear to observe wildlife.
Traveling by plane, mini-bus, horse-
back, hot-air balloon, and foot, these ea-
ger urbanites invade nature’s sanctuar-
ies to see and photograph abundant —
and endangered — species. It’s not
enough to see wild creatures on televi-
sion; everyone wants to “bring ’em back
alive” via home movies and slide shows.

Some foreign governments, quick to
tally tourist dollars, have expanded na-
tional parks and game reserves and es-
tablished new wildlife sanctuaries. Safari
camps and luxury game-viewing hotels
have sprung up to cater to the growing
market, and anti-poaching units em-
ployed in parks are increasingly effec-
tive now that wildlife represents crucial

 

Contributing Editor Barbara Sleeper is a zo-
ologist specializing in animal behavior. She is
president of the Seattle Zoological Society.

18/SEPTEMBER-OCTOBER 1981

foreign exchange money. Locals may be
amused by pop-top vans crowded with
camera-laden foreigners and wonder at
people queuing up to plunk down top
dollar to see lions and elephants, but
they willingly accommodate.

By convincing governments of under-
developed countries that their wildlife is
a major financial resource, scientists pre-
serve endangered species and threat-
ened habitats. In fact, travelers’ dollars
often help fund research, park staff, and
equipment, especially where proceeds
from local wildlife art sales are ear-
marked for conservation projects.

“Having seen animals in the wild,” ex-
plains David Roderick. director of Cali—
fornia’s Nature Expeditions Interna-
tional. “people return home with a new
appreciation for conservation issues and
an awareness of their own environment.
Contact with wildlife brings understand-
ing and respect.”

Water—based “safaris" increase eco-
logical awareness as well. “Once you’ve
touched a 45-foot gray whale in a Baja

Boa ctmoN

 
 

 

lagoon, it’s hard not to take up the cam-
paign to ‘save the whales,’ ” said an el-
derly woman returning from her first
whale-watching trip. “It’s an experience
that changes your life forever."

Many adventure tour operators solicit
and match donations from participants
to help save endangered species. South
Africa’s Educational Wildlife Expedi-
tions reinvests funds generated from
wildlife safaris into the Endangered
Wildlife Trust, which relocates rhinos
and elephants in sanctuaries, conducts
aerial surveys of threatened popula-
tions, and sponsors field research for
other endangered species.

But as a rose bush has thorns, the
boom in wildlife trips is not without neg-
ative impact, which could be lessened
through education. In Corbett National
Park, northeast of Delhi, India, I saw
people throw rocks across a small river at
a group of basking crocodiles. For them.
it wasn’t enough to see the reptiles sun-
bathing, they wanted action. Later, in
the same park, we were lucky enough to
spot from elephant-back a large Bengal
tiger at 300 yards. But instead of secur-
ing telephoto shots of the animal while
he was unaware of our presence, we
watched in dismay as our guide —— the
mahout, or elephant trainer/driver —
pounded our elephant in the head with a
metal spike and bellowed in Hindi to
urge the creature on at full speed. Con-
ditioned by the requests of photogra-
phers on his tours, he was attempting to
get us close to the tiger. As the elephant’s
skull resounded with each whack, the ti-
ger vanished. In other Indian parks. we
encountered radio-toting and chain-
smoking tourists who inadvertently
scared off wildlife and obliterated the
odors of vegetation and animals.

Bulletins posted in Kenyan game
lodges now warn ofother threats to wild-
life. Eager to see the “big five” (lions.
leopards. rhinos, buffalo and Cheetahs)

in an afternoon—from five feet away—
some foreigners generously tip their
drivers fOr special maneuvers. As a re—
sult, a cheetah had its foot crushed un—
der a vehicle in a Nairobi National Park
and a female cheetah with cubs was run
over by another vehicle. In southern Ke-
nya’s Amboseli National Park. a cheetah
died after a mini-bus broke its leg. Pred-
ators in pursuit of prey have lost their
prospective meal when tourists decided
to chase them. Pregnant impala about to
foal have been chased and stampeded
and newborn antelope barely old
enough to walk, let alone run. have been

  




harassed and separated from their
mothers by “Grand Prix” tour drivers.
Many animals respond to this perpet—
ual attention by hiding. Others become
apathetic. It’s not uncommon to find a
lion dozing at the edge of a dirt road in

an African park with ten vans surround- 1

ing it, bumper-to—bumper.
Increased traffic has also caused habi-
tat destruction. In Amboseli National

 

In South Africa, troops
of baboons were
exterminated after
repeated feedings by
visitors turned them into
marauding bandits.

 

Park, drivers leave dirt roads in cross-
country searches for wildlife. An arid
park, Amboseli faces serious erosion

problems from vehicle damage. This

problem surfaces wherever travelers pa-
rade daily through wildlife areas.

The Galapagos Islands, an archipela-
go off the coast of Ecuador, have more
than 12,000 visitors each year. Many of
the islands are part of the Galapagos Na-

tional Park, protected and controlled by
the Ecuadorian government. Because 3

visitation to a few of the islands is so
high, strict regulations have been intro-
duced to control visitor impact on the
wildlife and fragile island ecosystems.
Visitors must stay on specific paths, no
one is allowed on the islands after sun-
set, and no food or picnicking are per-
mitted onshore. Travelers must be ac-
companied by trained naturalist guides.
Several islands are completely off-limits
except to permit-holding scientists.

Even so, it is not uncommon to see
boatloads of people from larger ships
press onto an island and immediately
mob the nesting boobies and herds of
barking sea lions. The animals must ei-
ther move or put up with the harass—
ment. Occasionally someone will go too
far; goofy-looking boobies have been
known to peck quarter-sized holes in
camera lenses held too close. And sea
lions have inflicted toothy bites.

Some wildlife doesn’t fare even that
well. In the United States, a rare black
rail was trampled to death by a group of
well-meaning Sacramento bird-watchers
anxious to add another species to their
“life lists.” In Florida’s Crystal River,
manatees have been driven out of warm-

 

 

 

water retreats by scuba divers and snor—
kelers eager to touch and play with a sea
cow. This year, three new manatee sanc-
tuaries were established to give the en-
dangered mammals greater peace.
Visitors have also imposed death sen-
tences on the very animals they care
about—by feeding them. In South Afri-
ca, entire troops of baboons have been
exterminated after continuous feeding

 

A visitor insistent on one
more photo can pay for
it with his life. More
often, the animal does.

 

turned them into marauding bandits
that attacked, robbed, and bit park visi-
tors. Similar park pests have been cre-
ated within bear and deer populations in
the United States. Wild animals will bite
the hand that feeds them.

One of the most exciting ways to view
wildlife is on foot, and in recent years
many trip operators have begun to offer
walking safaris in, and adjacent to, na-
tional parks. It can be thrilling to stand
on equal turf with a pride of lions or
herd of elephants. But it can also be dan-
gerous, to both people and wildlife. Peo-
ple whose only exposure to animals has
been in the safety ofa zoo often insist on
getting too close. A threatened animal
generally will retreat—but occasionally
it charges. A visitor insistent on just one
more photo can pay for that last shot
with his or her life, or that of the guide.
More often, it is the animal that loses its
life at the hands of a sharp—shooting
game guard accompanying each safari.

There are sensible ways to lessen your
impact on wildlife:

Cl Choose a tour that represents wild-

. life, understands the need for its conser-
, vation, and can explain the particulars of

the animals and habitat you will visit. To

. accomplish this, get recommendations

from friends, local zoological society
chapters, or environmental groups.
Contact trip operators and ask for bio-
graphical information about the trip
leader. Educational material prepared
by the organization is also a good clue as
to its professionalism and sensitivity to
wildlife when in the field.

E] Don’t be afraid to speak up if you

. know the guide, driver. or a member of
, your tour, is harassing wildlife or taking

risks. Also, be sure to explain your pref-
erence for telephoto shots to the driver
before you set out.

El Never get too close to any wild ani-
mal, especially ifyou are on foot. It‘s fun
to have a Garden of Eden fantasy about
wildlife, but leave it home when you are
in the presence of wild animals. They can
be unpredictable and dangerous, espe-
cially mothers with young. Give them
space and make sure they have an escape
route that doesn’t include the ground on
which you are standing. What consti-
tutes “too close” varies with the species
and situation. Wild animals should nev-
er be cornered, surprised, or chased.

El How close is too close? You’re ha-
rassing a whale if you pursue it by mo- .
torboat. If, however, it comes up to
your skiff voluntarily while the engine is
off, fine. You can be within 30 feet of an
Indian rhino on elephant-back. On foot
that distance is suicidal. Crocodiles can
rush a riverbank to wrestle human or
animal prey into the water. Here, safe
means away from the edge of the water.
Because of these variables, it is impor-
tant to be with an experienced guide.

D If you insist on full-frame images of
the animals you see, learn to use telepho-
to equipment before you enter the field.
It's that single-minded determination to
get a close-up shot with a 50mm lens that
has cost photographers and animals
their lives.

D Don’t feed wildlife. Handouts upset
an area’s natural food balance. and the
food you offer may not be good for cer-
tain animals.

Cl Use common sense. Imagine how
you would feel if ten tourist vans pulled
up to your living-room window. You'd
probably feel threatened. even aggres-
sive. In a national park. you — not the
animals —— are intruding. ,

[3 Enjoy the animals in the wild—and '
leave them there. By purchasing souve-
nirs made from animal products, you
are encouraging poaching and illegal
trade in animal goods. More damage is
done to wildlife by tourists that never see
the animals in the wild than by safari cli-
ents. Dik—dik horn letter openers. ostrich
eggshell necklaces, zebra skins, ivory
carvings, giraffe and elephant-hair
bracelets, are often end products of the
wildlife extermination process. By pur-
chasing and sneaking such goods
through international customs. consum-
ers perpetuate a lucrative market.

Never have there been as many op-
portunities to make contact with the
world’s wildlife. Well-organized nature
trips can provide an unforgettable edu-
cational and photographic experience.
and leave only a positive impact. Cl

 

 

 




.' Mice with antlersmay Q
' 1' soon be providing important " *

f information to Cancer ire~

‘ V - Searchers Blohrhbnd Prehn
' i'sclentilic director atthelnsh» ‘

' 3; tutetorMedlcalResearoh in
'TSan Joe‘s, California has

' ' succeeded in gratting r
,7 deer-antler cells into mice
. and expects to be studying

. . fully horned rodents an about
* ",- a year. ?

‘Antlers tell oft every year

‘ H and regrow very rapidly, .
, Prehn says "There' 5 reason ’ ﬂ
-- to think that tissue the that :5

 

l done"

j 'Iisite to another in deer. By

; transplantlng a little bit ot the
1; surface of the bone Underly-

~rng the antler to another site

. Ton the deer antlers term

where youput it? he says

He has taken samples of this

tissue and transplanted

them into rodents a
$0 tar his tissue trans.-

: plants have developed tnto

small bumps similar to the
bases of, deer antlers. But

‘4 ‘5 because at the huge differ-
_' ences between mice and
‘ deer “there‘s still Some tld

dlinQ that'll have to be
Howard Smallmvltz

“WWW fesstant to cancer ”‘ '

tormetion.”_ZPrehn wants to

' ng. fetearnurhy’ antlers can grow
, : .- so fast. yet remain W96“-

nized,‘ while rapidly forming
{roancer cells grow wildly:

- Deer. however, would be
,too costly and inconvenient
to study. 30 Prehn is trying to

develop mice with antlers.
“lt‘s been found that you can
. -' transplantantlers from one

 

 




it

Part II / Tuesday, August 11, 1981

i" . lloa Angelea @imes ,

'_ Publishers , « .
HARRISON GRAY 0115, 1832-1917

HARRY CHANDLER, 1917-1944
NORMAN CHANDLER, 1944-1Q50

TOM JOHNSON '
Publisher and Chief Executive Oﬁ‘icer

WILLIAM F. THOMAS
Editor and Executive Vice President

VANCE L. STICKELL - '
Executive Vice President-Marketing

 

OTIS CHANDLER, 1960-15m

JAMES D. BOSWELL, Vice President-Employee Relations

CHARLES C. CHASE, Vice President-Operations

ROBERT L. FLANNES, Vice President and Assistant to the Publisher
JAMES B. GRIDER, Vice President-Production -
ROBERT C. LOBDELL, Vice President and General Counsel
DONALD S. MAXWELL, Vice President-Finance

 

Editor-in-Chieﬂ Times Mirror 19m

 

GEORGE J. COTLIAR, Managing Editor
ANTHONY DAY, Editor of the Editorial Pages
JEAN SHARLEY TAYLOR, Associate Editor

 

,._ .1 Watt Finds I the Water Rough

Interior Secretary James G. Watt had second
thoughts last week about inviting oil companies to
poke around in the ocean floor off the rugged but

1 vulnerable north coast of California.

’ . . Watt called the delay a purely legal decision. He

' said that he is already in court over offshore leases ,

' elsewhere in California and wants to see how that

.- _; lawsuit turns out.

.. But it is not just the law that is giving Watt trou-
ble. He is also up against the dismal underwater
geology of the region, the fragility of the coastline
and its marine life, and the unanimous position of
coastal communities and political leaders. ' . .
Watt picked the fight last February, saying that
~ he wanted to include the north coast baSins in a
. massive program to lease most, if not all, of the
nation’s outer continental shelf for exploration
during the next five years.

We thought at the time that Watt was'less inter- ‘

ested in the traces of oil that may be buried off the
coast between Big Sur and Mendocino Countythan

" in showing environmentalists who was boss and in

, showing the nation that President Reagan was
' serious about expanding domestic oil production.

‘ We still think so. We also think there is a good
chance that Watt finally understands that he
picked the worst possible place to start the fight
and will let the issue fade away even though he

1 says he will have another look at the situation in a \

couple of years.
Watt should have known right away that he

had put his foot in the wrong ring. Republicans
complained as loudly as Democrats did about the

* decision. Even some oil companies complained pri-

vately that he was stirring up opposition to other
offshore drilling where the objections were far less
valid. . - »

Gov. Edmund G. Brown Jr. threatened to sue
because the offshore leases posed a potential con-
ﬂict with the state’s coastal-management plans.
That might have been brushed off as partisan
politics. But Sen. S. I. Hayakawa (R-Calif.) also
protested—the only time we can remember his
speaking crossly with the new Administration.

One factor that makes the opposition nearly
universal is that there is little, if any, oil in the four
offshore basins. Oil companies drilled holes in the
area in 1963 and found nothing. Geologists esti-
mate that by keeping at it the oil industry might

_ eventually recover 200 million barrels—a supply

that would last the United States less than two
weeks. ' ' . .
Such a small promise of oil is not worth putting

, at risk—even a very small risk—the fishing

grounds, the rocky habitats of seals and sea otters,
and the splendor of. the north coast, all of which '
could be damaged by an accidental oil spill.

As we said before, if the secretary wants to show
that both he and the President mean business, they
can find areas where the chances of finding oil are
greater and the chances of damaging the environ-
ment much smaller.

 




Mrs. J. C. Yarbrough
3149 King Arthur Court, N. E.
Atlanta, Ga. 30345

August 30, 1981

Honorable Sam.Nunn
Honorable Mack Mattingly
Senators from Georgia
Senate Office Building
hbshington, D. C. 20010

Gentlemen:

Please consider this a request that you gentlemen oppose any attempt to
delete funding for the Land and'Water Conservation FUnd, when the Interior
Appropriations bill H.R. 4035 reaches the floor of the Senate. How long
and hard conservationists and environmentalists fought to get a Bill passed
to protect our lands and waters, and now we have some "gung-ho" Interior
Secretary who thinks he is going to change our hard work.and.make it count
for naught. ‘

If our federal government cut out all the damned wasteful spending they
have been carrying on for generations - as is reported every week in.the
National Enquirer (samples enclosed), there would be plenty of money for
the protection of our natural resources. I sometimes find it difficult to
believe - when I read these news stories - that we really have educated,
intelligent human beings working for the federal government. Or do they
think the American taxpayers are just a bunch.of idiots who will stand for
this nonsense? If Reagan is able to cut out this foolishness, he will find
he will have sufficient funds to take care of our National Parks, to fUnd
this LWCF, and he might not be so anxious to turn our PUBLIC LANDS over to
states who have no right to them in the first place. There would also be
sufficient funds to purchase the additional lands needed for the National
. Park system, before the land goes so high it can't be bought except by the
big conglomerates whose only interest is development and the dollar bill.

It is my understanding that the LWCP provides substantial funding for state
and local park acquisition and development. All the taxpayers benefit from
such a program; everyone is not financially able to travel all oer the
country to see many of our National Parks.

It is saddening to me to read, Senator Mbttingly, that you voted against the
Johnston.amendment, and I should most certainly like to hear Why. I hope
you will support the LWCF when.this bill reaches the floor, and in.the future.

Sincerely,

(Mrs. J. C. Yarbrough)

(So you will know my feelings on this matter: Hon. Elliott B. Levitas,
G. William Whitehurst, Alan Cranston)

P.S. I should also like to hear from all of you gentbmen re ﬂhe enclosed

Story which appeared in US News of 5.4.81, re the spending of Congress for
'ts own benefit?

 




An Ashland Oil Co. subsidiary
was given the stupendous sum to
build elaborate, permanent build-
ings for a synthetic fuels project
that’s supposed to last only two
years. .

Conveniently, the facility is next
door to an Ashland refinery — and
can be claimed by the oil company, at

no cost, when the project is com-
pleted.

“The Department of Energy’s
(DOE) requirement was for the de-
sign of ‘prefabricated buildings with
little or no embellishment,’ ” re-
ported DOE Deputy Inspector Gener-
al Thomas S. Williamson Jr.

“But the Ashland subsidiary has
constructed permanent buildings,
installed expensive utilities
changed transportation facilities —
apparently to facilitate future ex-
pansion of a nearby . . . refinery.”

Williamson pointed out that several
of the buildings constructed at tax-
payer expense were “built to last 40
éyears.
. “Hundreds of thousands of dollars
1 could have been saved if the Ashland
”subsidiary had adhered to cOntract
specifications and DOE recommen-
dations.”

, James Butler, a spokesman for the
“Ashland subsidiary, claimed the DOE

 

 

 

Federal spendthrifts have pumped $1.2 million in tax
funds into the silver-lined coffers of a super-rich oil firm!

A Slick Waste

Of'Your Taxes g

actually “approved our plans tobuil .
that type of building. This shouldn’t
be any surprise to them.”

Not so, responded William Baptiste
of the Inspector General’s office. '

“It’s debatable whether anyone in
DOE approved it,” he declared.
“They did send some plans in here -—
but the program manager, due to oth-
er workload requirements, didn’t get
around to looking at them until con-
struction was well underway —- audit
was too late to change what was going

and on

“The thing that’s important is that
a facility I considered in excess of our
needs was built down there.”

And an angry Rep. Ron Paul (R.-
Tex.) thundered: “The entire syn-
thetic fuel program is nothing but
corporate welfare -— and a waste of
the taxpayers’ .- money.» This is a
perfect example.”

— PAUL EINSTEIN

a“

 




ﬂit/WW“

Anti-A meman a

ported in part by America’s tax dollars!

M W@ /; 2—7’ 8}!
I0 Station: In

A network of US. radio stations specializes in
leftist propaganda and filthy language — but
what's really obscene is that the stations are sup-

the radical Iranian Students
Association even after
Americans had been taken
hostage by militant students
in Iran.

OUI‘

 

“Nearly $2.5 million of your
hard-earned money has gone
-to Pacifica stations —- notori-
ous for broadcasting filth, ra-
cist material and programs
that encourage violence,”
fumed Reed Irvine, chairman
of the Accuracy in Media
watchdog organization.

Pacifica stations in five

shopsS'

 

-

[By WILLIAM newcorrj
ed match in Jewish-owned

O A show on which sex be-
tween adults and children —
including parents and their
youngsters -— was advocated.

0 Regular air time given to

OAn obscenity-riddled ti-
rade by radical Abbie Hoff-
man.

In an explosion of . anti-
American rhetoric on the
front page of its listeners
guide. the Pacifica station in
Washington, DC. glorified
“our struggle against capital-

 

 

 

sassins who execute victims
in this country and around the
world."

And while viciously biting
the hand that feeds them, the
Pacifica radio stations hide
behind the US. Constitution‘s

cities ~— including New York,
Washington, DC, and Los
Angeles - have laced the na-
tion with a web of shame, of-
fending Americans with anti-
American, anti-Christian and
antLSemitic propaganda, Ir-
vine charged.

During the past 10 years, he
said, commercial-free Pacif-
ica has milked the federal till
through various public broad-
casting grants.

And while eagerly gobbling
up their tax dollars. Irvine
added. Pacifica has slapped
Americans in the face with
these shameful insults:

O A program that urged its
listeners to “drop a light-

 

 

Mﬂ 'J ‘1an --
was an “‘KIQIBIPQUIUII 1! dois
ueo am mm adoq 1,, 1113.13 am
ow; Kllnbtll [euotssaﬁuog e
.10; paxse seq aq Sites aq 19111
Axﬁue os st xneaig 'dag
“senate
-os 811189.10} ut 8910.! S‘UGUIOM

 

 

 

‘am 10 amicu am om; stasis

-ut weuodun apt/load plnoqs”
qoaeasaj 3111 mm Pepi)? JSN
at”, jam; 0: uamom qum
.10} 8.18.1 s3; Smiles ‘1ueJS
am PaAOJddB JSN am PUV
“'saipn
as KimuaJ-amdeﬁouxap osle
pue stsﬁmue M01; Karena
10 [801801033 sueiua uaipnqa
BSIHJ os1e pue tum; moq ' ' '
uamom moq SJOIdXO 01 58010
-poqiaui .mo,, ‘ptes -— 3008
—Kpa[qq08 KnsxaAtun moxq
-q8m Sutsn — SJQQOJBGSGJ am
‘1sanbaJ weJB JSN .11an ul
“nuawtuaixoﬁ 10 isnnstui
spuqnd am 01 sppe 1an ewes
were; 33.181 tunq se [19M se
uaipuqo asiei ueo sautdqud
am in UBUIOM euios Rum Kpms
01 000‘0L$ Jello puads 0‘1”,
'(‘9'I"CI)

nation‘s leaders "as-

 

A

 

”('9‘
3:729 Egg
«2me :0)”-
"3 H 0-.-
(our: Smo§
m“"’:':."°:rv:=
aowm' mm
was???" “‘3
C’Eﬂo”s 593
Uli- D-ivo ~IH
3315' "’ “3‘
(pr-Fm Um
B” so. a...
(pg-ago “in:
9.2.3.122. am
22°”? °E
”5"”. 00 g-o
no ac
on ma
Pie-rm :3 :30
935,335 3%
991mm‘25‘ so.

Jaqioue '10} Butxse
matmd pauteiqpnq

am no Kauom x91

10 mew
st pue —

JnOK JO

000‘s: pasn erane seq an

”.5. Get $2.5 Million of Your 70x5

istexploitation"and declared guarantee of free speech.

“But the Constitution was
not intended to protect the
broadcasting of hate and the
inciting of violence against
specific groups of citizens,"
said Irvine.

“Thomas J ef—

'saieui item Kq uo paieaqo

ferson would turn over in his
gravef‘

.

 

i

-ap ”3.191166“ x91 JO aane V.

 

xneaxg uqor "dag 'S'fl 93-1910

snoaﬁenno an S} we sum,”
'SMOJJB pue smoq

1mm 193p pue Std ppm
1mm oqm uauiom [eqm
am JO [1e aAJasqo 01 and
oqm sxaqoxeasai KIISJGA
-tun 0: ideas am But
'Al3 S! (JSN) 00119901103
aouatos [euone N s‘iuaul
-u.IaAoB IBJGDQJ an,

 

'Haquqo aster

 

[ms pue aum'ﬁ tum]

moq uo

 

 

[mo uaurom ouldllld

Kpms e aoueug mm Kauoul xm
peruse-p.131; .moK go 000‘113 mam 310w

”lama; 139 :1

/8 42’15 ‘47)

WW%

Andxnj -

 

 

 

Engage. cm

(D O

maﬁé” {a

(D ﬁnﬁm'c‘

“$593538 Q.

Smmxsga‘

éa-sgmrao ..."‘

gangs=°

Chennai-3mg” :

<96: 5"

H-H.: ."ﬁw

a°m5°o

on S:

on :r...
ggwsmmma
5°39”: wk ~

métwamm a.

2150”}? g:.~
saaw'ﬂwa

3 003‘

(-913 “biog,“
aggcmn '5 Us
walgag aﬁ“ \
n: ma. "‘
gs 2¢U.8‘3 g»

”sins—s a: .\
gram ‘98. g \
558:1:0“ U.
*zggma a %
€5’='~a*' a a \

oth‘m,‘ E
'U 5 ’3‘ m: “
”@9009” O
3 “W o H-
(DE-Dim 9?; 2’.

n m ....

3%887’? cc“ Cb
ew~mw$ a seas
~-€mmx.~-o .,
’1.< .6 of]! on
~°mv_'6e 5'4 :23
‘noa. '45.": c: mm
(:35 'f‘m'a'io non-1'"

o u. m w

%W"V-am'1 . Ommm
|-. n: Hma/gon m

- x5”: . 5"».r‘3
n '2 ”*3 “330:18320-
E SangEng-a'ﬁs
3 aggog§§$ 0.75.03

to

5. magic: 9368323

; Erna" 523,39 “"8

~ mﬁaAamy’E Qg'“

'12 ”8°0ng 7“ (“Mag

a (Dye-r3 t-n U) 'F’

 

 




  

NATIONAL ENQUIRER - April 28, 1981

5230, 000 in Taxes Go to learn if
Pregnant Women Should Scuba Dive

Free-spending federal bu-
reaucrats have really gone
overboard by spending more
than $260,000 of our tax money
to find out if pregnant women
should scuba dive.

Incredibly, the government already
knew the answer before it squandered
the money.

Scientists at a workshop sponsored
by the Undersea Medical Society in
1978 concluded that pregnant women
should not dive at any time.

Yet, under the government-funded

Sea Grant program, $162,000 of our,

. hard-earned tax money has been doled
out to Texas A&M University re-
searchers who are putting pregnant
sheep into a pressure chamber to sim-
ulate dives to 100 feet.

Not only that but the government has
dumped another $98,039 into the laps of
University of Wisconsin scientists who
are determining whether standard div-
ing decompression tables, which are
designed for males, can be used for
pregnant women.

In their grant application, the scien-
tists said there are 40,000 registered
women scuba divers and noted that
“diving during early stages of preg-

 

nancy may produce birth defects . .

But as far as US. Rep. Gene Chappie
(R.-Calif.~) is concerned, “These stud-
ies are little more than moonlighting
ventures for college professors and this
type of nonsense must cease.”

Fumed James Davidson, chairman
of the National Taxpayers Union: “The
American taxpayers should not be
spending thousands of dollars to find
out what any responsible obstetrician
would tell his pregnant patients -—
‘don’t dive.’

“It’s essential that the government
start using more common sense and
fewer tax dollars.”

-— NEIL BUNCOW

 

 

 

 

Go vt.‘ Spends Your Tax $3 to learn
WI: y Mexican: Go to Cult Healers

The National Science Foundation' is wasting $40, 000
of your hard- earned tax dollars on another wacky
project — to find out why sick Mexican peons go to cult

healers instead of doctors.

The money was given to a
professor at Eastern Michi-
gan University in Ypsilanti,
so she could analyze results
of studies on psychic healers
ofl the Mexican Spiritualist
on t.

The bizarre cult, founded
by a rebel Catholic priest in
1866, believes that its founder,
Padre Elias, was actually the
manifestation of the Holy
Ghost on earth. Cult followers
are also convinced that Mexi-
co will one day rule the world.

Approximately 1,000 Spiri-
tualist temples are scattered
throughout Mexico and the
southwestern U.S.

Many peasants go to the
temples instead of to medical
clinics, to receive treatments
from “curers” who practice
healing while in a trance
state.

 

The professor says her

 

L By PAUL EINSTEIN 1

study “will contribute to an
understanding of the healing
process (and) the role of
healers.” She also hopes to
determine how successful the
healers are.

The National Science Foun-
dation (NSF) gave her $29,091
for salaries; $8,576 for re-

 

 

search; $1,003 to travel to
Scotland for a meeting of the
Society for Medical Anthro-
pology; $870 for materials
and supplies and $460 to at-
tend meetings of the Ameri-
can Anthropological Assn. in
Washington, DC.

The handout was blasted by
Rep. Larry McDonald (D.-
Ga.), a medical doctor, who
stormed: “It is totally absurd
to spend the taxpayers’ mon-
ey on anything of this nature.
It’s a total waste of money.”

 

  

 

 




1°
:1
\x
:1

‘43
7°

ulo

b
Tlmn 50

903 0

/ .

5m

(ongres

E
é’
E
V
a.»
§
9-,
I
‘é’
.2
v.
5
Q.
‘3

es Were

I

Ul’

I

their own

Feathering
nest at taxpayer expense,

some retired congressmen
are living the good life on
fat pensions that are ac-

years ago.

Today his pension is an es-

timated $65,000.

 

Go vt. Goes Ape Wit/1 Your Taxes

Wild-spending federal

monkeys out of taxpayers again — this time squandering
$82,500 to study the eating habits of monkeys on a remote

island in the Indian Ocean.

And, once again, it’s the
(NSF) that’s so lavish with the
tax funds.

An N SF-funded anthropologist
spent 18 months on the tiny isle of
Mauritius studying two different
groups of crab-eating macaque
monkeys and how the animals’
differing environments affected

bureaucrats are making

National Science Foundation

 

 

their diets and social organization.

“They eat 60 to 80 percent fruit,
some leaves and 5 to 10 percent
meat from insects and shell fish,”
said the university researcher who
received the grant. But, the an-
thropologist added, some of the lit-
tle devils raid sugarcane fields as

 

04W 5" 14/81

well - and suffer from diabetes.

Will taxpayers thrill at this fac-
tual tidbit?

Rep. Ron Paul (R.-Tex.) doesn’t
think so. “At a time when the
American family is having a
rough time putting food on the
table, it’s an outrage to be spend-
ing the taxpayers’ money on this
kind of study,” he thundered.

“Taxpayers are getting sick and
tired of this kind of monkey busi-

ness by bureaucrats.”
— PAUL EINSTEIN

 

Go vt. Plat/(s Your T ax 53
To Study A fricun Harp Music

ank Thomp-
D.-N.J.), convicted of
bribery in the Abscam probe,

oEx-Rep. Fr
son (

a $47,000 pension,

which will eventually outstrip

draws

60,662 salary because of
of-living increases.

LISH

— JAMES McCAND

 

 

House-Speaker, Carl Albert,‘ $57,500 when he retired five

retired in 1977, he was earn-

ing $65,600 a year. He’s now

eligible for $75,000 a year —

almost as much as the $79,125
salary of the current Speaker,

Rep. Thomas “Tip” O'Neill

Jr. (D.-Mass.).

l

o Wilbur Mills, the Arkan- .
sas Congressman embroiled his 6

in a scandal involving exotic cost-

dancer Fanne Foxe, earned

 

The National Endowment for
the Humanities (NEH) put a song
in the heart of a jobless Chicago
researcher by giving her $22,000
of our tax money to study harp
music of Uganda.

The researcher says she will ana-
lyze 115 recordings of Ugandan harp
music made about 30 years ago as
part of “a total study of music and
culture.” She added that she hopes
her research eliminates the concept
that African music is nothing but
drum music.

“I think it’s really excellent that the
NEH is funding grants of this type,”
she said.

“As an independent scholar, I espe-
cially appreciate it because while
many others may have regular jobs, I

 

NATIONAL
Page ‘2 ,, ENQUIRER

7» 2'1

 

tually higher than their

salaries were.

Incredibly, even disgraced
lawmakers convicted of tak-

ing bribes in the Abscam
scandal are collecting lucra-

tive lifetime pensions that will
someday top the salaries the

made while still in office.

3’

That’s because the Con-'
gressional pensions are tied

to the Consumer Price Index,
or cost of living — and when

the index goes up, the ex-

congressmen are entitled to
get semi-annual pension in-

creases.

gs
Re—

“It’s a scandal!” thundered

former US. Rep. Hastin

Keith, a Massachusetts
“When I left Congress in

1973 my pay was about $42,500
a year. Because of the incred-
ible twice-yearly cost-of-liv-
“People just don’t realize
how well Congress has looked
after itself and other civil ser-

vants with these hu

publican who served in Con-
sions.”

gress 14 years.
$40,716. And it will soon over-

ing raises, my pension is now
take my salary.

 

was someone without a job -— and I
was just thrilled,” to receive the 'fel-
lowship.

However, her harp study has hit a
sour note with US. Rep. Toby Roth
(R.-Wis.).

“It doesn’t exactly make me want
to sing with joy,” he said.

“Perhaps President Reagan’s pro-
posed $85-million cutback in NEH’s
budget isn’t enough. Perhaps we sim-
ply ought to eliminate the endow-
ment’s budget.

“We’re long past due for a cutoff in
tﬁfs public funding of projects such as
t ' .

“However worthwhile they may be,
from a scholarly point of view, they?
offer little comfort to hard-pressed?
taxpayers worrying about putting’
meat on the table.”

-- WILLIAM BARNHILL

ge pen-
Keith said,
f

lary was

d last

tag-

nsion is only
Here are a few examples of

In contrast, only half of the
nation’s retirees are even en-
0 When former Speaker 0
the House John McCormack

0 Just before another ex-

titled to a pension and the av.
20 a month,

year his pension was a s
gering $92,000.

Congressional pensions:
$62,500. When he die

erage private pe
retired in 1971 his sa

$2

 

 




Nﬁ‘fz'mva k £IV¢U/1é£€- 9.. /.. gap

Gov't Blows Million$ on

Supplies 8: YOU Pay!

By PA UL EINSTEIN

It’s not surprising that fumbling feds can’t _
balance the national budget when you discover a ,
government agency that actually blows a whop- ~

ﬂing. $8.7 million on supplies worth only $2.4 mil:
on.

Yet, that’s precisely what astonished Congres-
sional investigators unearthed when they studied the
outrageous spending practices of the Federal Supply

 

 

 

Service (FSS). . items that GSA does not nor-
An offshoot of the notorious- mally keep in stock _-.. like a

1y wasteful General Services $6 crowbar, for example.

But, incredibly, according
investigators from the
government’s Gener’al Ac-
counting Office (GAO), for
each and every item that FSS
purchases, the paperwork in-
volved results in an “admin-
istrative” charge of $85.54. So
that $6 crowbar costs' tax-
payers a shocking $91.54.

In 1980, the FSS “adminis-
trative” bill alone ran to $6.3
million —- more than 21/2 times
the $2.4 million that the sup-
plies cost.

Stunned GAO officials have
recommended that the FSS
program be discontinued —-

Administration (GSA), FSS is
entrustedto buy low-demand to

“.1

the finding

man, she replied with a chuckle:

5 could be of any use to

ous is th

What makes it even more scandal-

mankind.
California coast on (1
watch which birds approach.”

earned tax money to “go out fr
out a wick in a bottle of tuna oil an

According to the director,
searchers are spending your

sity study admits the findings will al-
ay trips and p

re-

Bird-brained bureau

the National Science Foundation
(NSF) have wasted $95,000 of
your tax money on a ridiculous

 

 

pointing out that it’s cheaper
for the federal agencies who
need items that are not nor~
mally stocked by GSA to buy
them directly.

And a furious Rep. Ron
Paul (R.-Tex.) fumed: “This
is a perfect example of why
we can get along with less
government.”

 

 

l

heavens no. That’s not why we’re into ENQUIRER

But when the director was asked if squandering ways.
“011, NATIONAL

’9

repay the American public for their

 

-— PAUL F LEVY
Page 10 At

most certainly be of no benefit to something smells funny about this
project.
hard- their own money
om the use their noses, let

But Rep. Ron Paul (R.
at the director of the univer- the research smells rotten.
ut but the bureaucrats who approved
(1 this useless study should be forced to

them go ahead —

need a scientific study to know that
to study how birds

“If some researchers want to waste

-Tex.) thinks
“I don’t

study to determine which sea- on seabirds

the project will gi

In making the award, NSF claimed
birds use their noses to hunt fish. which little is known.

’ sense of smell, about

basic science investigation.”
ve new information

even worth mentioning. This is a pure

Do Hunting Seobirds Smell?
This Gov’l Study Sure Does

crats at it. That’s so far downstream it’s not

 

 




national enquirer - August 21, 1981

West/y ' Get $18 Million 7mm 60 Vt.
" . A ml Wait 6 Months to (as!) Checks

If you think all people getting government as-
sistance really need it, consider this startling fact: .

An incredible 143,000 Sup—
plemental Security Income
(SSI) checks totaling as much
as $18 million -- paid out to
supposedly needy people —
have not even been cashed for
six months or longer!

That shows Uncle Sam’s
playing sucker again — dol-
ing out dollars to people who
need the money as much as
pigeons need lips.

“It’s outrageous that peo-
ple are receiving 851 checks
and aren’t cashing them,”
fumed US. Rep. Larry Mc-
. Donald (D.—Ga.).

“If the Social Security Ad-i

ministration can’t figure out
that many of these people ob-
viously don’t need the money
1 to cover their living expenses,

 

 

then these bureaucrats are in
the wrong business.”

The uncashed government
checks ranged from less than
$1 to a whopping $6,751. They
averaged 5127, according to
the General Accounting 0f-
iice (GAO) .

Unbeh’évably, one recipient
was found to be holding 15 un-
cashed checks totaling $1,865.

“Two other recipients re-
ceived benefits while out of
the country,” said a GAO re-
port on the situation. “Under
the Social Security Act, an

 

SSI recipient who resides out-
side the United States for 30 or _
more consecutive days is in-:
eligible for benefits.” ‘

The Social Security Admin-
istration has the power to
cancel uncashed checks, take
the recipients’ names off the
rolls or provide aid in cashing
checks -— but so far it “has
done little,” said the GAO.

Commenting on the situ-
ation, Dan Blades of the GAO
declared: ..

“It certainly indicates to
me that we’ve got some peo-
ple on the rolls who may not
need the assistance.”
RICHARD BAKER

 

 




  

WASHINGTON REPORT

 
       

AUGUST 24, 1981

OMB PointsOut 1
Travel Waste
In Government

The federal government is spending $4
billion on employee travel this year but
can’t determine why 27 percent of those
trips are being made, according to a new Q
report by the Office of Management and I
Budget. 1

The OMB study also found that:

0 Most agencies failed to take advan-
tage of discounts offered by airlines, hotels
and rental-car agencies.

0 It costs an additional $400 million a
year to process the 10 million travel vouch-
ers federal workers generate.

The report recommended:

0 Streamlining travel entitlement pol-
icies and reimbursement procedures.

0 Strengthening travel arrangement and
procurement policies and procedures.

a Strengthening travel cost-accounting
and management guidance. '

9 Installing a travel-management as-
sessment and audit process.

' In presenting the report to Congress,

. OMB Deputy Director Edwin L. Harper
said, “Overall, we have to have managers
and supervisors to look at the reason for
a trip. That is the most important single
step we can take. We must know where
people are going and why they are going.”

The OMB report said that while no wide-
spread abuses by federal employees had
been revealed, “no purpose could be iden-
tiﬁed for 27 percent of the trips in the
vouchers sampled.”

-“This was largely due,”.the report added,

“to the inappropriate use of general travel
authorizations that did not require man-
agement attention to the purpose and need
for trips.” .

Citing the failure to take advantage of
discounts, the report noted: '

"'These discounts and other opportuni-

" ties for travel-cost savings were lost largely

due to agency inattention to proper travel

management practices.”

    
     
   
   
   
   
    
    
     
    
 
    
 
    
 
     
     
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
    




Junkets, expense accounts, a
vast array of perquisites—
Capitol Hill retains its way

of life while forcing others

in government to cut back.

Congress’s most painful task as it
struggles to trim federal spending is
turning out to be the job of cutting its
own 1.4-billion-dollar budget.

The result: Though often cited as a
conspicuous example of official waste,
Capitol Hill could be among the last
affected by President Reagans belt-
tightening drive.

Modest savings are being claimed as
members of Congress forgo pay raises
and curtail committee activities. But
even as lawmakers order substantial cut-
backs for other areas of government,
critics contend that the good life on
Capitol Hill survives largely unscathed.

What angers many taxpayers are con-
tinuing reports of alleged excesses such
as these: Overstaffing of committees
and offices, unnecessary travel, expan-
sive new construction, lax control over
expense accounts, generous pensions
and a widening array of perquisites for
members and their aides.

“It is neither fair nor equitable to
expect our citizens to sacrifice while
we have business as usual,” argues Rep-
resentative Lynn Martin (R- 111..)

Still thriving, for instance, is a prac-
tice that especiallv riles many taxpay-
ers: Congressional junketing. The ses—
sion was bare y. under way before
dozens of senators and House mem-
bers, many accompanied by their wives
and aides, were winging away at public
expense to such places as Jamaica, Sin-
gapore, Greece, Japan and Hawaii

For example, a delegation headed by
House Speaker Thomas P.‘ ‘Tip”
O’Neill (D- -Mass.) flew in mid-

April to Australia and New Zea-
land “to discuss security and eco-
nomic issues” with government

 

Again this spring, lawmakers are traveling to exotic places at taxpayer expense.

Majority Leader Howard Baker (R-
Tenn.). Eight other senators accompa-
nied him on this trip to the Middle East
with a stopover in Spain. Again, Wives
were invited along. Transportation
costs, alone will probably exceed
$100,000 for the big military passenger
jet used by this group.

Despite all the criticism, Congress
has been unable or unwilling to control
its own expanding staff. The staff is
down slightly this year, but at nearly
19, 000 persons it is approaching three
times the level of 20 years ago. Critics
contend that too many staff workers do
little or spend their time fulfilling per-
sonal chores for their elected bosses.

Example: Most elevators still have
operators, even though Congress spent
3 million dollars a few years ago to
automate elevator controls. Claiming
the jobs are wasteful, Senator Roger

Jepsen (R- Iowa) has been waging a ,

lonely battle to have them phased out.
Other senators are intent on retaining
these patronage positions. Annual cost
for 89 operators: $890, 000.

Questions also have been raised about
Congress’s 1 ,200- member police
force—about the size of the police force
of San Diego, a city of 875, 500—which
costs some 24. 4 million dollars yearly.

Capitol Hill’s generous salaries—an
experienced secretary may make more

officials On the 10- day jaunt were 14 a

other Democratic and Republican
members of the House, many wives and
staff aides. Members were to cover
their wives’ expenses. Taxpayers will
pay all other costs, including $5, 221 per
ﬂying hour for the military jet, similar
to a Boeing 707, furnished by the Air
Force.

Another trip during Congress’s two—
week spring vacation was led by Senate

24

 

 

than $30, 000 a year, a top committee
aide up to $53, 254—are sending pay-
roll costs through the roof. Congress’s
payroll now exceeds 345 million dollars
a year, roughly a fourth of this year’s
estimated total legislative budget.

Another expenditure under scrutiny:
The accounts that members of Con-
gress draw upon to pay miscellaneous
expenses, such as phone calls and travel
to the home state. For a senator, the
fund ranges from $37, 000 for a close- to-
the- capital state such as Maryland to
$143, 000 a year for Hawaii. The House-
member average is about $80, 000 a
year, plus an additional $15, 000 that
can be diverted from the staff-salary
account, for miscellaneous expenses.

Joke books and TV’s. Expense ac-
counts are meant to be used for official
purposes only. But a Senator decides for
himself what some official expenses are.
Result: Some purchases that taxpayers
might question, such as TV sets, art,
glassware and a joke book.

Even so, Congress has continued to
increase these individual accounts.
Currently under study by the House
Administration Committee is a propos-
al to raise the limit again this year.

Also slipping past Congress 3 waste
watchers was the House’s purchase this
year of more than $16, 000 worth of
furniture for offices of three new Repub-
lican and Democratic leaders. Among
purchases: A $3, 225 mahogany desk for
Democratic Whip Thomas Foley of
Washington and a $2,1 36 executi\ e desk

and $634 armchair for Be-
publican Whip Trent Lott of
Mississippi. The furniture
used by previous holders of
these offices was stored or
used elsewhere when new
items were bought.

The economy wave so far

The House spent $16,000 to
refurnish offices of three
newly elected leaders.

U.S.NEWS 81 WORLD REPORT, May 4, 1981

 




has cost lawmakers few of their valu-
able perquisites.

Members still qualify for such extras
as retirement benefits after five years’
service, low-cost life insurance, free
mail privileges, free long-distance
phone calls, expense-paid travel, gov-
ernment publications, emergency
medical care, use of private gymnasi-
ums and swimming pools, parking, pic-
ture framing, ﬂowers, and cut-rate
meals, cigarettes, car washes and bar-
ber and beauty-shop services.

In addition, members of Congress
get discount printing and TV and ra-
dio-studio services—a distinct advan-
tage in a political campaign.

A few benefits have been curtailed.
For instance, senators now pay $3.50
for haircuts that used to be free.

In one area alone—printing and
binding of documents—Representative
Dan Clickman (D—Kans.) estimates
Congress could save at least 10 percent
of the 91.2 million dollars it spends an-

 

Excessive printing costs Congress millions a year.

nually. How? Clickman proposes limit-
ing the content and reducing press
runs of such publications as the Con-
gressional Record, committee proceed—
ings, calendars and hundreds of other
printed items that Congress gives away
or sells below cost.

Calendars and menus. Congress/
spends 2 million dollars just to print
and mail the 1.1 million wall calendars
that members send free to their friends
and potential supporters each year.
Congressional restaurants print new
menus every day—although most com-
mercial establishments do not—at a
cost of $100,000 a year.

The Congressional Record, contain-
ing House and Senate proceedings as
well as other data inserted by individ-
ual members, costs $479 a page to pro—
duce. Yet, despite the cost, lawmakers
load its pages with nonessential materi-
al, critics claim. During the opening
weeks of this new Congress, it cost
some $33,000 to print House members’
“extensions of remarks,” consisting
largely of birthday tributes, the scores

U.S.NEWS & WORLD REPORT, May 4, 1981

of winning teen-age sports teams and
similar items.

Representative Clickman also has
called for an end to allowing a member
to have one copy of any public docu-
ment he receives bound in leather at
public expense.

Congress voted last year to stop offer-
ing lawmakers a free bound set of the
Congressional Record, worth $4,000 a
set. But the ban is due to expire in June,
and, so far, members have shown little
enthusiasm for extending it.

Costly Old Glory. Even seemingly
minor expenditures can get out of
hand. For instance, members for years
have provided ﬂags—often free—to in-
stitutions and individuals. Recipients
may be charged for such flags, but law-
makers frequently choose to buy them
out of their own expense accounts.

Such flags are flown briefly from a
flagpole atop the Capitol to enhance
their historical value. In the early 19708,
nearly 30,000 banners were given away
or purchased yearly. By
1980, the number had
climbed to 70,000 at a cost
of more than $6 each plus
salaries for two full-time
and several part-time
workers to fly and ship
them. With flag requests
continuing to climb, law-
makers are under heavy
pressure to hire two more
workers at $11,000 each.

Among Capitol Hill’s
best-kept secrets is the
cost of operating two
gymnasiums and swim—
ming pools for' the exclu-

sive use of senators and House mem--

bers. While the budget does not
identify this expenditure, personnel
records shed some light: Nine people—
listed as physical therapists or atten—
dants, although most are actually mas-
seurs and masseuses—are employed to
run the facilities at more than $200,000
a year in total payroll.

A third gymnasium, slated for a new
Senate office building now under con-
struction, was scrapped in 1979 amid
public criticism of the expenditure.
Plans for a rooftop restaurant and other
frills, such as wood-paneled offices, also
were dropped.

But controversy continues to swirl
about the new Hart Senate Office
Building, still two years from comple-
tion. Even with a cutback in amenities,
the huge structure will cost at least
137.7 million dollars—nearly triple the
original estimate. It will become the
Senate’s third office building, allowing
that body to catch up with the House,
which already has three.

On the Capitol Architect’s drawing

board: A long-range plan for develop-
ing up to six more House and Senate
office buildings to accommodate pro-
jected staff increases over the next sev-
eral decades. “It is vital that these
plans be killed now, at the very begin-
ning, before the money has been com-
mitted, construction has begun and it is
too late to turn back,” argues Senator
William Proxmire (D-Wis.).

Congress spends hundreds of thou-
sands each year just to transport mem-
bers and staffs over short distances. Top
House and Senate leaders have chauf—
feured limousines. Underground trains
whisk passengers between various
buildings in the l87-acre congressional
complex. Under construction: Another
underground rail system connecting
the new Senate office building with the
Capitol.

For passengers choosing to ride
above ground, a shuttle bus is available.
Three drivers are paid a total of $43,726
a year to operate the van-type
vehicle, which carries an average
of 175 people a day. This year,
the lawmakers plan to replace
the van with the type used at
airports, costing $25,000.

In the last Congress, the
Senate spent $20,000 for two
four-wheel-drive vehicles to
assure that Democratic
Leader Robert Byrd of
West Virginia and Repub-

Another soaring cost:
The thousands of sou-
venir flags that are
flown over Capitol and
given away each year.

 




lican Leader Baker could get to work
even in a snowstorm. The vehicles have
never been used for that purpose.

The cut that never was. To project
an image of austerity, the House and
Senate this year approved what backers
billed as a 10 percent reduction in com-
mittee spending—a theoretical savings
of 4.6 million dollars. The cut, however,
was based on 1980’s authorized expen-
ditures, not the lesser amounts actually
spent. Compared with last year’s out-
lays, Senate committees in 1981 will get
only a fraction less, while House panels
will get 6 percent more. ’

One program hit hard by the re-
straint was House Information Ser-
vices, a rapidly growing computer op-
eration, which, opponents argued,
duplicates much of the work of the Li-
brary of Congress and “answers ques-
tions no one is asking.”

Earlier this year, lawmakers blocked
a proposal to boost their own pay to

$70,900 annually from the current
$60,663. Debate focused on the ad-
verse impact a raise at this time would
have on voters. Said House Majority
Leader James C. Wright (D-Tex.) dur-
ing the debate: “Let’s face it, my col-
leagues, we are not starving.”

But members still may wind up with
more money in their pockets. A quiet
effort is under way to double to $6,000
the special income-tax deduction
members get to help them offset the
cost of keeping two residences—one in
Washington, the other in their home
state. Such tax breaks are not available
to congressional employes in similar
circumstances.

All in all, it adds up to minimal sacri—
fice by Congress so far in the battle to

curb federal spending—much to the

embarrassment of at least a few sena-
tors and House members.
Representative Robert McClory (R-

Ill.) puts it this way: “How can we in

 

 

 

 

 

 

eying new tax breaks for themselves.

Congress continuously point an accus-
ing finger at the executive branch
when we give no regular accounting to
the American people for the way in
which money is spent to operate the
Congress and its agencies?”

 

By ROBERTA. BARR

O

 

 

The Benefits Taxpayers
Lavish on Lawmakers

Besides their $60,663-a-year salaries, members of Con-
gress qualify for a vast array of perquisites that cost
taxpayers hundreds of thousands of dollars yearly per
lawmaker—

I Liberal allowances for staff salaries. For senators,
the amount ranges from $592,608 to $1,190,724, de-
pending on their state’s population. House members
receive a flat yearly allowance of $336,384 for salaries.

I Rent-free offices at the Capitol and in home dis-
tricts, with liberal allowances for furniture and office
equipment. Members also may lease mobile offices at
public expense.

I Sizable expense allowances for travel, telephones,
telegrams, newsletters, field-office costs and official ex-
penses outside Washington. House members may even
charge off food and beverage costs incurred in connec-
tion with official duties. House members’ expense ac-
counts, including a $43,000 basic allowance, plus addi-
tional amounts for specific items, average more than
$80,000 a year. Senators’ allowances range from $37,000
to $143,000 yearly, depending on the number of constit-

uents, distance from Washington and other factors. Each
member also is allowed an additional free trip to Wash—
ington at the start of each session of Congress and a
return trip at the end.

I Opportunity for overseas travel on official business.

I Unlimited free long-distance telephone service
through the government’s own Federal Telecommuni-
cations System daily between 5 pm. and 9 am. on
weekdays and any time on weekends and holidays.

I Frequent time off for vacationing or campaigning.

I Liberal retirement benefits after five years’ service.

'Top pension after 32 years’ service is $48,530, with

automatic cost-of—living increases twice a year.

I A $63,000 life-insurance policy for $418 a year.

I Government-subsidized health-insurance plan.

I Free emergency medical care, including drugs,
from the Capitol physician and his staff. Members may
receive free electrocardiograms at any time and can
make use of laboratory and X-ray services.

I For their exclusive use, free swimming pools, gym-
nasiums with steam rooms, masseurs and masseuses and
physiotherapy specialists.

I Haircuts for $3.50 for male members and aides at
Capitol barbershops operated by public employes. Low—
cost beauty services for female members and staff.

I Reduced-rate meals in private dining rooms, with
no sales taxes.

I Low rates at radio-TV studios, maintained at public
expense, for members to make recordings for political
use back home.

I Publicly paid photographers to provide free pictures
of members for news, publicity or other use.

I Free help from the Library of Congress on speeches

Raw 18 i9
' RESERVED FOR
CONGRESSHEN

and answering constituents’ inquiries.
I Reserved garage parking for members and most
staff employes. Lawmakers also have free, reserved
_ . . . parking in preferred locations at nearby National and
*3? ‘ . Dulles airports.

' ‘ ‘ ' ‘ I A package of special items to give constituents, such
as subscriptions to government publications, calendars,
maps and pamphlets valued at more than $10,000 a
year.

TS ONLY

 

 

26 U.S.NEWS & WORLD REPORT, May 4, 1981

 




Mrs. J. C. Yarbrough
3149 King Arthur Court, N. E.
Atlanta, Ga. 30345

August 30, 1981

Honorable Bo Ginn
Congressman from Georgia
House Office Building .
Wash., D. C. 20515

Dear Congressman Ginn:

This is another vote - and a strong one - for wilderness pro-
tection for Cumberland Island. I have been sickened by the
rash of recent fires on Cumberland, and wonder how much wild
life was destroyed in those holocausts. Was there ever a re—
port on this aspect?

I believe that designation of all land north of Stafford Man-
sion should be included as wilderness, with the exception of
Plum Orchard. All tidal creeks should be included, and Grand
Avenue north of Stafford Mansion. Please include Half Moon
Bluff and High Point enclaves as wilderness.

We need to maintain wilderness areas in America - places where
the animals and plants are not disturbed by the intrusion of
humans - where there will be no pollution and desecration of
the naturally wild and beautiful areas which is so often the
case in land used by the general public.

It is my understanding that you have supported protection for
Cumberland, and I thabk you for that, and trust you will con-
tinue to do so.

Sincerely,
(Mrs. J. C. Yarbrough)

cc: Honorable Elliott B. Levitas, Sam Nunn, Mack Mattingly,
G. William Whitehurst, Alan Cranston

 




 

 

 

 

 

. new concept:
Hearing dog-s , ‘
to help the dea

l

By Judy Foreman
Globe Staff

Joanna Nash, 34. of Needham, was horrified one
morning several years ago to discover that a neighbor
had slashed her screen door during the night in order to
reach her distressed, screaming son.

Joanna Nash, like her husband, David, 35, a post of-
fice worker, is almost totally deaf. Their handicaps -
hers, they think, from Rh-negative complications at
birth and his from more ambiguous birth defects — have
not stopped them from having three seemingly normal.
lively children, aged 3 to 7. _

But their inability to hear a crying child, or a doorbell.
or telephone or smoke detector, let alone the normal
sounds of music and conversation, makes the responsi—
bility of parenthood far more difficult. .

Luckily for the Nashes, this is about to be remedied at
'least in part by a further addition to their family — a
hearing dog, the first animal in New England trained spe—
cifically to aid a deaf family.

Building on the concept of the Seeing Eye Deg for the
blind, the Red Acre Farm Hearing Dog Center in Stow.
backed by the American Humane Assn. and Boston's
Animal Rescue League, is in the beginning stages of sup-
plying between 12 and perhaps 24 trained hearing dogs a
.year to deaf people.

The center, which began 75 years ago as an old—age
home for horses, is a non—profit organization. It combines
a concern for the problems of New England's estimated
1.7 million hearing-impaired persons with a disciplined
training program for the dogs that will aid themf

Dog trainers PP.J. Reilly and Pam Bundy choose 1-
year—old dogs from the Animal Rescue League, which pro-
vides free veterinary care as well as free dogs. The dogs
are then quarantined for two weeks to make sure they

 

 

 

 

Dog Tania (top photo) helps Bundy “hear" alarm
clock. Below, Lady meets the Nash family.
GLOBE PHOTOS BY PAUL CONNEtt

 

The dogs are taught to wake up a deaf person when
an alarm goes off, to lead the deaf person to the door
when the doorbell rings or when knocking is heard, to go
to the telephone and pointto it with their noses when it
rings and to get the deaf person's attention and then
drop to the ﬂoor as a danger signal when a smoke deters
tor goes off. ' . -

Although the dogs are initially trained by a combina—
tion of voice and hand signals. by the end of their train—
ing, they can be completely controlled by a series of hand
signals, which are clearly distinguishable from the sign-
ing language of the deaf. ‘

According to Carolyn Bird, the center‘s executive di—

‘reetor, it costs about $5500 to train each dog. though the ,

J‘i ». | ..

animals are offered to deaf people free. thanks to (lonzr
tions received by the center.

Ram Bund

 

are. f rce of disease and then taken to the Stow center for

three to fOur months of training. ,,
ma 2: E” 2 Q ”9/

 

 

baby cries

' . 79ws'Tﬂ/“V

 




.8 7 ,Section .3 . Phipagngburte, Thursday, September 3. 198_1_ . and other real esrate holdings, went to her unusual
’ , _- heirs. Thanks to booming oil prices and the Florida
_ , . _ , ‘ 33:1i estate market, the valueof the estate skyrock~
. Family members tried to prove in court th
Egrtu “8 went to the dogs Ritchey “had lost touch with reality.” After aflctmr

. . . _ ,, - , years of legal wrangling, an out-of—court settlement

M i—t . 0 netted two half-Sisters and a half-brother 15 per cent
u S I n er’t t e goo I e fof the still-growing estate, or nearly $2 million, the

. g , “ bulk of it in Quaker Oil stock\ Three cousins and an

uncle got nothing. .

——.—*

 

By MalColm BalioUr ', iinleanor Ritchey was the granddaughter of Philip

 

3

h ‘at‘iﬂfti‘éﬁ‘gih‘SEZa‘ft.“it? amass r and”. Q‘éake“ ‘
. .- . . ., au ero aueandSoh' '
gaginvgnof MISS Eleanor Ritch- ; After her father left home, .she' lived wilzhlielltitchey. -.
. The executor carefully opened the $2“?er in Ft. Lauderdale, where she spent most of
.engflope. Then came the bombshell. ‘ ' - ‘ '

e ' .. r . . . . , . . . .
_,,Herafg‘r‘tgu:;5h;‘s"cg"6nget 5333351323,- . - FEEDERICKSON doubts that any of the dogs will
, When she died in 1968 eccentricoil surwve another two years. The Ritchey Dog Ranch
heiress Eleanor Ritchey’left an estate $3133? .150 scrubbed kennels, nearly all empty DOW;
no“; valued at $11.5 million to 150 mon- lilawnsa ﬁgwoer; gagisoiﬁggﬁ’ despite the well-groomed

— ’ 7 ' e.

(g)? She stsrtegtys ggghgtéffasggrﬁyted thStr‘f‘gdiayS he Spends gm?“ time mowing lawns
. Eight millionaire mutts still are liv- an en mg to the remaining dogs.
mg a life of luxury at the beautifully
manicured 200~acre Ritchey Dog
Ranch. The ashes of 142 other strays

lie in sgatedin hlalbeled' bottles and tins 3013.31”?- ‘The Priée '—-‘$3,077‘ 777 '
on cup oar s e ves in a room next to “ ”9,5 no need f0, M .
the kennels. With a stock portfolio 2 there are so few dogs?’ﬂﬁolttugsiigarchlgig tﬁat d
most of us only dream about, the last . ~ .. -5 veloped so rapidly that the ranch has be a as e-
‘ dew able piece of property. It cost the egg? $2223)?
' :1 3’1??? 30.111113. But in today’s glum economy those
i-mihonaire dogs aren’t'complaining,” he said.

Even though the estate is earnin '
. ~ . p . g $2,300 dad to
‘ Eh; dggs, the trustee, Lowell Mott, is negotiatigg t;
. e :t e ranch to golfer .Arnold Palmer for a luxury

’5 v...
I

. ight appear almost ready for the‘cup-
. board as well. ' '

“THEY’RE NOW really getting old.
by any standards,” said Dr. Ivan '
Frederickson, their veterinarian, who
has been examining the dogs each
week for the past 13 years. ”Even
though they are at the end of their
time, Miss Ritchey made sure they
had a very comfortable life. When the
last dog dies, the money will go to Au-
burn University School of Veterinary
Medicine,” he said. ‘

Snoopy never had it so good.

A special diet is prescribed for the
animals by Frederickson. They live in
immaculate concrete kennels and re-
ceive individual attention from ranch
manager Warren Williams and his as-
sistant, Mark Strong. -

“We like to feel that the dogs know

 

.o.’ u ‘
er ”4»'.v” ‘4 '

~, .we really care for them,” Williams said. “Right now one
1, '-of them, the male Musketee‘r, is feeling pretty low, so'we‘
spend a little extra time with him. (There also is a
, female Musketeer surviving.) The dogs also are pow-
; (tiered every day for fleas and they get weekly hair
'1- 1ms.”'
Strong, the chauffeur and personal handyman to
5 Miss Ritchey, used to drive her around Ft. Lauder~
...dale insa Cadillac looking for strays.
Soon‘her dog count swelled to 150, but the barks
_;'--- not to mention the smells —- became too much for
{her neighbors in the exclusive neighborhood of
,1. Spanish-style mansions.

. IT WAS WHILE her beloved dogs were being
moved to their present location that the 58-yearvold

7 Miss Ritchey died. Her estate at the time was worth
I $4.5 million. It included 1,707 pairs of shoes, most of

_. them worn only once, and 1,224 boxes of Stationery

- which she left to the Salvation Army. The rest —

$113,328 shares.of. Quaker. _Oil stock, plus her horde

'seﬁieuo IeJESUOLu eigeuogmw iqﬁge‘j em to sue ‘ieeiexsnw 'Jw pue ﬁuons mew

 




LOS ANGELES TIMES - August 26, 1981

Bloodless Bullﬁghts in the US.

A Legal Loophole Allows Latin Phenomenon

By MICHAEL CAPALDI ' ‘

Jose Ramon-Tirado stood alone on the wet sand. His
chin tilted upward and his chest jutted out.

“Huh!” he yelled. “Toro!” Twice he brought down
his muleta (cape) to goad the bull on. ' ‘

. The big black bull’s head swayed from side to side.
Then its hooves bit into the sand. The bull’s head low- .

.ered and its tail came up.

The bull’s charge sprayed bits of ground as it neared '

the matador.

The matador, now on his toes, side-stepped the bull
and drewethe muleta over the bull’s thick body.

“Ole! Ole!” The crowd cheered.

The hull rounded to charge again. It jerked up its
horns to make a vicious jab at the muleta. RamonkTir-
ado felt the bull slide against him.

He pivoted like a ballerina. The cape cut through '

the air.

“Ole! Ole!”

Now the bull turned and faced Ramon-Tirado,
watching, horns pointing at the matador. .

A young aspiring matador, a Chicano from Southern
California, watched from outside the ring: “This is a
great matador. He is a great man, famous all We
S 8111.99 ,~ ‘ . .

pBut this was not the bullfighting Spain of Ernest
Hemingway. The mountains in the distance were the
San Bernardinos, sitting on the horizon above Pico
Rivera in Los Angeles County '

For the first time since 1962, according to promo-

Madrid? Mexico City? No.“

ters, a series of bullfights has been held in Southern
California. The most recent event was 'at. the first
World Hispanic Fair and Eicposition at the Pico Rivera
Sports Arena over the weekend.

The exhibitions were the Portuguese style of bull-
fight, also known as bloodless, because the animal,
aside from the harassment of the ring, is not harmed.
(However, there are no such restraints placed on the
charging bull, and it is not unusual for the human par~
ticipant in the battle to be painfully gored.) 7

Whether the bullfights will become a regular local
attraction depends on a number of factors.

Bloodless bullfights are frowned upon by the Los
Angeles County chapter of the Society for Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals. The SPCA’s Sgt. Charles Reed
says that the society has a reluctantly permissive poli-
cy: “We don’t condone it. There’s always the possibili-
ty of injury to the bull and that’s what stops us. Like-
wise, we do not condone rodeo exhibitions.”

Reed noted that if the fights are held in conjunction
with a religious feast day they are legal. According to
California law, while all forms of bullfighting are ille-
gal on most occasions, the bloodless type is permitted
when it is part of a traditional Hispanic religious festi-

val.

So, a loophole in the law allows for the occasional
presentation of a bullfight. And if the reaction of the
crowd was any indication, many Southern Californians
are happy about it. On Saturday night the crowd of 1,-

Please see BULLFIGBTS, Page 6

nwu-WM

”no” ,

, . mm mm / museum
it's Pico Rivera. where bloodless bullfighting is in vogue.

:6 "

., k;

I.‘

' ._. . 411:4

 




s):

MARSHA TRAEGER / Los Angeles Times

Young and old sit entranced'by the bloodless
bullfights at World Hispanic Fair in Pico Rivera.

BULLFIGHTS: . The
Bloodless Variety

Continued from First Page
500 was on its feet cheering most of the time.

Most of the spectators were Spanish speaking, but
there was a broad spread of age groups represented, in-
cluding whole families. Fight judge Antonio Lopez par-
ticularly liked the family aspect:

“My own boy, 12 years old, loves the bullfights. It is
something we share. He has even faced a small bull in
Mexico.”

Because of the deep cultural chord bullfights strike in
the Hispanic community, promoters feel that there is a
market to develop in Southern California despite legal
and other difficulties.

One of those problems is the scarcity of fighting bulls
in the United States. All bulls are imported from Mexico
under tight restrictions.

In dealing with the Pico Rivera Sports Arena, at least,
there is some question as to which government agency
is responsible for issuing permits. Both the LA. County
and the Pico Rivera Animal Control offices denied hav-
ing jurisdiction over animal exhibitions at the Sports
Arena.

In Spain, South America and Mexico, bullfighting
usually leads to the injury of either the bull or the mata-
dor. The hull gores the man or the man kills the bull
with sharp prongs and a sword.

But since the 14th Century, the Portuguese have
spared the bulls sent to their arenas. The bullfighters
still carry swords for show, but they are not used to in-
jure the bulls. Only this Portuguese style is permitted in
the United States.

At last weekend’s exhibition, promoters Ruben Bo-
horquez and Linda Primanti staged eight bullfights.

According to contest judge Lopez, bullfight promoters
have had trouble planning even Portuguese style fights
in the United States. At first, authorities worried about
injuries to the bulls. But after film of similar Portuguese
events finally convinced state and federal officials that
the risks to the bull were minimal, Bohorquez and Pri-

9

manti were faced with a near embargo of fighting bulls
from Mexico. ,

“Export permits were always hard to get,” says Lo-
pez. “The Mexican government wanted to make sure
that there were enough bulls to go around in Mexico,
first.” '

Only recently has Mexico allowed the consistent ex-
portation of the bulls.

Facilities adequate for the spectacle were rare north

. of the border. Most rodeo arenas, for example, were too

large, and smaller stadiums are not in localities serving
large enough Hispanic populations. ,

Before this series, the last bullfight attempted in Los
Angeles was shut down in 1962 when city inspectors

. would not certify the hastily erected stands built for the

occasion. Requests for fight. permits were also turned
down in 1980. .

So, altogether, there have been only eight legal US.
bullfight exhibitions in recent years, all of which have
been stagedby Bohorquez and his crew.

But the tour has gone to some unlikely areas in the
country. Lopez cites Oklahoma, Arkansas, Buffalo, San
Francisco and Detroit.

The biggest obstacles, says Lopez, are the misconcep—
tions about bullfighting in America. Many potential
spectators believe that all types of bullfighting are ille-
gal. He also points out that some people assume that the
more humane Portuguese bouts are less exciting than
the Mexican and Spanish styles.

However, when the Portuguese determined to make
the fights less bloody 600 years ago, they were only
partly successful. Every matador is still quite capable of
being gored or trampled to death by an angry bull.

While the young Los Angeles matador, Salvador
Araujo, watched the old master in the ring, he spoke
proudly:

“The real tradition is fighting your fear, not killing
the bull. You are trying to conquer the audience, and to
do that you must stand up to the bull.”

The art of the matadors remains intact. The judges
consider the style of the cape wielding, the effortless-
ness of the many standardized steps, pivots and ﬂour—
ishes of the bullfighter’s moves.

Bohorquez says that the effect is best compared to a
gymnast’s floor routine in that all movements empha-

Please see BULLFIGHTS, Page 7

 

 

 




‘ ﬁne Angeles aims

BULLFIGHTS

Continued from 6th Page,

size economy and fluidity of motion. In bullfighting the

essential moment comes just as the bull passes, and the

4,;- matador steps forward or shifts slightly away from him.
.I There are several ways to evade the bull at this point.
p . The most dramatic include ISO-degree pivots after
which some matadors brazenly turn their backs on the
f " bull while it rounds for the next charge.

 

Most matadors are assisted by four picadors who car-
ry not red, but pink capes. Their job is to “break-in” the
.1. bull. For the first three minutes they incite the bull to

charge them, while the matador sizes up the bull’s style.
‘ 1 . After the matador is satisfied, he will call his appren—
. tices off the floor and direct them to four niches in the
,barrera, a circular wall surrounding the arena. For the
- next 10 minutes the matador must face the bull with lit-
tle help.

.1 g The closer he comes to the bull on each pass, the bet-
ter his score is. The more times he can make the bull
. charge him, the better he can make the show. In fact, if
a bull is especially aggressive, and the matador can fight
the strong temptation to handle the situation by running

for cover, the audience is very likely to be pleased.

In bullfighting the final object is to win the spectator’s
admiration. The crowd signals its approval by waving
handkerchiefs, tossing hats into the pit and shouting the
familiar “Ole, Olel”. The wise judge usually follows their
dictates and awards a black handkerchief as a symbol of
victory. 7 -

The emphasis on popular appeal was carried through
to the other events in the exposition. The traditional
blessing of the bulls was carried out by Father Roger
Luna of St. Mary’s Church in East Los Angeles.

The fair featured a Miss Hispanica beauty contest and
several folkloric bands; booths selling Colombian, El
Salvadoran, Mexican and Brazilian foods, as well as ta-
bles of ethnic and religious crafts. Spanish-speaking ra—
dio station KWKW broadcast live from the fair while
the newly formed all—Spanish cable service, GalaVision,
taped the bullfight and segments of the fair.

Lopez figures that the fair and bullfight are good for
the Spanish community’s sense of culture.

“I think that we’re giving these people back a little bit
of their past. All of this is very traditional and it makes
Spanish speaking people very proud. It also allows us to
share our traditions with non~Hispanic Americans in
Southern California." r .

And what happens to the bull? ,

In America, the bull is lucky. At the end of a bout, a
far gate opens and a cow, trained to circle the bull and
draw it back into the corral, enters. The hull repairs with

the cow to the stables, where it lives to fight another
day. .

Michael Capaldi is a Los Angeles free-lance writer.

 

 




Em >HF>ZH> nOZmHHHGEOZ . maﬁa. :v Hemp

 

\ x

x . .\
xv\ \ .v \ .
\\\\\v\\\ .0 .
“\\\ \ . . .
,WMVAM .

\ .. \ \\

\.\‘\\\\\ \. \. f 3
NN..\\..\ \ . _. .

.. w . . \i

a... I t. ‘Q \\ \\\
x. ..é\\\\w “
\\\\\\\\\\\\\ \\\\\ \l \ . 2: t
\\\M\\\\\\\\\\\\_ 3‘

\\\...“w..\\\......,.

\
. nu.
Iva...

\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\

\\\\\\ .

\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\ ‘0 I

a! \ \\\

In... .
\\ .

\

\
4 .. . x... A i. . M. \\
,....m—'F.,.....i. 2......l. .,,._..,. ﬁx
“1
..

_...._I: .IM........I

g

.3”.».' h‘Ph

n: V. 1,

 

n§d>28nzmm .

.\.\\\

mmdbdmwv _ . .. .
\\

\\ .. ‘L \

~ . ~\\u\~\\\‘ I I

. in».
. Anywanwm.

 

 

 

\ \\ a...
..\\....v... «\\\vmvvr

 

W.

\

max:

.5033a3ammw we: 3:.“ @822. Guam So am A 568. wmxcsm A 3... an: 953 5.5%.:

 

 




t:
‘3

THE ATLANTA CONSTITUTION

For I 13 Years the South’s Standard Newspaper

 

James M. Cox. Chairman 1950-1957—James M. Cox Jr.. Chairman 1.95 7-1974

 

Tom Wood
President

Jim Minter
Executive Editor

Hal Gulliver
Editor

John Schaff'ner
Managing Editor

PACE 4~A FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 1981

_' 0n Saving The River

‘ Interior Secretary James Watt says a
key part of the Chattahoochee National
Recreation Area may be privately developed
it conservation groups are unable to raise
814 million to buy the property by Oct. 31,
the deadline for congressional approval of
the fiscal 1982 budget.

» Judging by the recent record of conser-
vationists and environmental groups, the
chances of raising 814 million in the next six
weeks seem slim indeed.

Watt. of course, has given lip-service to
preserving the land, but no federal funds to
acquire it have been forthcoming. Fifth Dis-
trict Rep. Wyche Fowler and Georgia Sen.
Mack Mattingly both have expressed apti-

' federal funds will come in the
nick of time to save the park parcel which is
gimme area of Sope Creek near 1-75 and 1-

One must wonder if the optimism is not
misplaced. Reagan’s economic program is
receiving one jolt after another and the
federal deficit is growing at an alarming
rate The administration's budget writers un-

doubtedly will look long and hard before
they lightly drop in another $14 million to
buy a piece of park land in the heart of
Jimmy Carter country.

What is really needed here is a realistic
evaluation of the situation and serious con-
sideration of some alternatives in the likely
case the park will not be funded. Severe
zoning restrictions should be imposed on the
pr0perty so that private developers will be
forced to consider environmental protection
in developing the area. A number of spots
along the Chattahoochee have. been success-
fully and beautifully developed without dis-
turbing the aesthetic beauty of the river. But
a number of other spots have been developed
without regard for the river and the green
belt along its banks.

It’s unfortunate that the proposed park
property is in trouble. Let’s hope that Fowler
and Mattingly prevail and that public money
will become available. If that is not possible,
responsible local and state officials still need
to be certain that the river and its banks are
protected. - '

 




 

 

 

 

O’Q‘OOOO

3’9

OAKLAND TRIBUNE/TODAY - Aug.

31, 1981

 

1NAT10N1

 

“gm?

1

SWCO“§ICQ9‘OO$‘4‘.O
. .

”all

illiam Endicott
noel“ Times

ENO, Nev. -- When President
gan swept through the West on a
trip last fall, he told back-
'11-: of the Sagebrush Rebellion at a
wily in Utah to “count me in as a
:izeb‘el” and promised to support their
53—90111 of gaining state control of the
Ifmillions of acres of timber and min—
: mai- rich federal land west of the
j mky Mountains.
M‘I happen to be one who cheers
supports the Sagebrush Rebel-
mu ” Reagan said
”whafing under federal bureaucra-
mud domination, the movement’s
dealers had reason to revel when
gan moved into the White House
and chose a Wyoming native James
G. Watt, as secretary of the interior.
"“But seven months into the Rea-
gan administration and two years af-
.' J mter it was launched by a handful of
. Nevada legislators, the Sagebrush
‘A‘IIe‘bellion is on the verge of collapse
A federal judge in Nevada recent-
.“Iy threw out a lawsuit the state filed
in large part to establish its claim of
. sovereignty over the land within its
' Tf‘bo‘rders. There is little support in
Congress for Sagebrush Rebellion
"legislation and there is little or no
support from either Reagan or Watt
n for massive land transfers.

' ,,W.,Nevertheless. delegates meeting
' where last week at the annual Western
“Canference of the Council of State
'--~Governments attempted to breathe
‘.-..new life into the rebellion and adopt-
, ' .1230 _,a resolution reaffirming its goals.
' ' mBut there was little conviction in his
,uxpice when Nevada Assemblyman
«Dean Rhoads told reporters, “The

' ,,.S.agebrush Rebellion is not dead.”
:73- He acknowledged. however, that
Watt is apparently trying to defuse

5

9‘MQ'QQOWQ‘(OQOO'Of'tOOQOQI'v‘v'
!*$‘$l ’1

‘U Lg

n)

0'6

:3

”Q‘WWlid'Qdi‘J‘

«

7

vv‘ovmv'v'vvovoo
’ ‘£‘\

crvvtf‘DVOV
(a

CO“*“W

£1 .

Ih

“He seems to feel that now that
'7 13:23 in office we’ve got nothing to
. 'E worry about, that we don’t need the
Sagebrush Rebellion" Nevada state
n'Sen. Norman D. Glaser said. “But the
nnext administration could flop over
"nl‘BQ degrees, so we ‘re still pushing.”
Actually the presence of Watt in
the Department of the Interior has
L" «posed a real dilemma for many
- Western legislators. 0n the one hand,
.crthey strongly defend him against en-
'uironmentalists and other critics and
malpplaud many of his initiatives to
scrap federal regulations and open
1. _“t1p federal lands to resource deve10p-
ment. But on the other hand they
b’ejleve they are being paid only po-
iitical lip service in what is one of
”‘the major tests of states‘ rights in
this century.
' The ambivalence that they appar—
Qﬂt‘ly feel toward Watt was reflected
st week’s conference when dele-

mes, at the urging of Wyoming

2}.

.un

ﬁll

.611

- i
' O 0 O .f..9.$.0§v

1'1”

 estern rebellion
nearing collapse

state Rep. Marlene Simons, adopted a
resolution in support of the secretary
and his policies and at the same time
were sharply critical of him for turn-
ing down a request to address the
conference.

Simons and Arizona state Rep.
Joe Lane said the choice of Watt was
“one of the finest moves Ronald Rea-
gan has made.” Simons added that “I
honestly don’t feel Reagan or Watt
can, by any stroke of the pen, solve
our problems. The West has to keep
the heat on ”

But Nevada state Sen. Keith Ash-
worth, the conference chairman, said,

. two events make me believe the
new team in Washington thinks they
know what’s good for the West and
don’t need to listen to us anymore.”

Ashworth said an agenda for a
meeting between Council of State
Government leaders and the presi-
dent earlier this year contained no
issues of concern to the West, such as
the Sagebrush Rebellion, and “the
second event was the difficulty in
getting any high-level administration
figures to come to this annual meet-
1ng. ”

He said the Western legislators
had to settle for “assistants to the
assistant assistant” and, “I think we
deserve a little better treatment.”

The only two Reagan administra-
tion representatives at the confer~
ence were Frank Dubois, a deputy
assistant secretary in the Depart-
ment of the Interior, and Judy Peach-
ee, a special assistant to the presi-
dent for intergovernmental affairs.

Peachee told the delegates that
the president’s “bottom line” is re-
turning power to the states. but Du-
bois told them that Watt does not
support massive transfers of land to
the states.

The Sagebrush Rebellion was born
in 1979 when Nevada lawmakers
guided a bill through their Legisla-
ture challenging federal control of
millions of acres of public lands in
the state currently managed by the
federal Bureau of Land Management.
Since then. several other states. in-
cluding Wyoming. Arizona. New Mex-
ico and Utah have passed similar
laws. Legislation is pending in other
states.

Ultimately. the issue may reach
the Supreme Court. with the states
arguing that Washington illegally co-
opted the largely uninhabited sections
of the West when the various Western
states were admitted to the Union
and. in the ensuing years. placed too
many restrictions on mining. ranch-
ing. timbering and water develop-
ment — although Watt has moved to
ease many of those restrictions. They
also argue that they are being denied
the economic advantages of the lands
and their riches at a time when they

are escalating in value.

 




 

 

 

 

 

‘ Is Uncle Sam mismanaging the public lands? ‘

Continued from ﬁrst Perspective page ‘
timber harvesting were codiﬁed as the goals of

public land management. Scenic values, solitude, '

and other so-called “amenity values" were deﬁned
as resources to be considered inland-use decisions.
' Long—term planning with full public participation
became a congressionally defined requirement.

_ Congress also decided during the last 20 years to
protect wilderness areas, free-flowing rivers, ar-
cheological sites, _ endangered species, and wild
horses, all of which affected public land manage-
ment; Protection of the environment became a
requirement in all- federal decision making, and
clean air and clean water acts were passed.

WITH THE NEW laws have come the rules and

regulations which now grate so on the energy.

companies and other users of the public lands, and
which Watt says he. wants to change. ' ' ‘

requires the federal government to analyze the
impact on the human environment of all signiﬁcant
federal actions. When a Wyoming rancher who
grazes cattle on the BridgertTeton National Forest
wants to move a drift fence, Someone in the forest
supervisor’s office in Jackson has to make a decision

about its impact onthe environment. A piece of,
paper makes the rounds, collecting the initials of"

various specialists. It is called an environmental
assessment. — .

The same rules apply to drilling an exploratory
oil well or developing an oil field on public lands.
but the analysis becomes much more complex and
a full-scale environmental impact statement may
be prepared. The first ever done on an appligation

to drill an exploratory well on onshore federal
lands is being prepared on a request to drill in the

high country south Of Jackson. - .
After spending 20 months and $650,000 on it, the

government released a draft in‘ August. There

were restrictions and stipulations, but it recom- ,

mended the applications to drill be approved. The

crucial point was a finding that the government .
cannot deny the right to'drill to the holder of a s .
lease unless there was such a stipulation in the .
original lease, a major-victory for the oil com-l
panics. One of the drilling applications covered by V

the statement was for a drill site in a proposed

wilderness area. The Forest Service has in the .
past placed such areas essentially off limits to

drilling. _: . '

“IT’S MUCH'more complex than it was 20 or 30
,years‘ ago,” saysReid Jackson, a supervisor in
, - the Bridger-Tetan-Forest. “The old days are gone
, The National Environmental Policy Act of 1969

when a ranger or forest supervisor could make a

decision unilaterally based on his knowledge of his

activities in the forest.

“I don‘t' feel any pressure from our outfit to do' '~
“things against our better judgmen ,” says Jack-
son; -“At the same time, the message. is.loud and .-
clear that they .do not want us to throw road- .
blocks. They Want us to be accommodating and

work with the energy companies.” .

There are many disputes betWeen the natural
resource industries and environmentalists {and
conservationists about public lands practices.

"clearcutting of timber and grazing policies among .

them. The major battleground now, however, is the
development of energy resources.
7

. \
.
.

'love to hate.

THE OIL AND gas industry long has used public
lands, but domestic production has been relatively
stable since the mid 1950s. As demand increased,
the outer continental shelf and Alaska were tap-
ped, but for the most part, the increased demand
was met by larger imports of then-cheap Middle
East oil. Some energy company executives con-

cede-the industry Wasn’t paying all that much.
attention to changes in public land policy. Then _

came the Arab oil embargo and OPEC.

Canada, meanwhile, had- been developing oil and l
gas on its portion of the Overthrust Belt, a series.

of geologic sturctures meandering down the west-
ern portion of the continent. It was not that the
energy companies were ignoring the Overthrust
Belt'in the U.S.——they- drilled more than 300'dry
holes. Late in 1974, when most Americans still
thought of $1-a-gallon gasoline as a scare word,

the first oil well‘on the domestic Overthrust Belt'

gash brought in ‘ near Coalville in northeastern
ta .

The currently producing section of the Over-
thrust Belt slices out of Utah into southwestern
Wyoming. Fault lines. run north through the
Bridger-Teton Forest to within a few miles of
Jackson, then cut into Idaho and north into Mon-
tana. It is a new oil province, unexplored territory
the oil companies say has great potential.
Thousands of square miles of it is on public land,
much of it wild, remote and in some cases stun~
ningly beautiful. .

'In Monday’s Perspective: A‘ profile of Interior
Secretary James Watt, the man environmentalists

‘ .

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

~ The federal government holds title to nearly one-third of the
land in the United States. And the man who manages those
holdings is James Watt, President Reagan’s controversial
secretary of the interior. This is the second of two articles by
Associated Press correspondent Terry Ryan examining the
debate about the use of the federal domain and Watt’ s role
relating to it.

By Terry Ryan

WASHINGTON—The environmentalists reacted as if Attila
the Hun and his entire horde had arrived at the National
Gallery of Art.

The words they used were arrogant, selfrighteous, zealot.

James Watt, the man entrusted with the management of
the public lands, spreads his lanky frame over a straight-
backed chair, props up a foot on the coffee table, and tilts
back.

“I’ve been browbeaten in an instance or two,” he says,‘
and he smiles. “When the President was searching for a
secretary of the interior, the first condition they talked about
is that you have to be tough enough to take the abuse that
will come if you do the job right. If you’ re not tough enough

totake it, you should not take the job.”

toHe calls those who besiege him “elitists. " He has damned
the torpedoes and gone full speed ahead. He has taken apart
the Department of Interior and rearranged its priorities. He
has changed the official notion of land use.

AS THE nation’s 43d secretary of the interior, James
Gaius Watt, the 43-year-old son of a small-town Wyoming
lawyer and grandson of apioneer family that homesteaded
the range, administers the principal federal agencies that
control almost one-third of the lands of the United States.

The secretary of the interior has sole discretion under the
Mineral Leasing Act to dispose of deposits of oil, gas, coal,
and certain other minerals on these public lands through
leasing. He has authority to set terms and conditions,
including rentals and royalies, on such leases. He could, as
previous secretaries have infrequently done, halt leasing.

The secretary of the interior administers such other uses
of the public land as grazing and mining. He runs, among
other things, the Bureau of Land Management, the National
Park Service, the US. Fish and Wildlife Service, the US.
Geological Survey, the Bureau of Mines, the Bureau of
Indian Affairs, and the Bureau of Reclamation. In all, the
Department of Interior has more than 80,000 employee.

“People benefits” is the term Watt uses to define the goal
of his management of the public lands. The dependence of
the United States on foreign sources for a substanial portiom
of its energy and strategicmaterials affects the quality of
life and the national security of all Americans, he explains.

The failure to use the public land resources fully has
contributed to inﬂationary pressures, an unfavorable export-
import balance, and a weakening of the nation’s economic
base. “We have charted a course to bring balance to the use
of the resources,” he says.

Defining the best interests of all the people is one area
where Watt and environmentalists will never agree.

Watt grew up in the town of Wheatland, a farming and
ranching community on the eastern Wyoming prairie, a
region tourists drive through counting the hours to Yellow-
stone and Grand Teton. He spent his summers on a family
ranch in northern Wyoming and is immensely irritated by
the allegation occasionally raised that he neither knows nor
loves the outdoors.

He was a high school athlete and married his high school
prom princess, Leilani Bomgardner, while a freshman at the
University of Wyoming’s College of Commerce and Industry.
He was graduated from college with honors in three years

, and edited the law journal of the University of Wyoming
-- School of Law before being graduated in 1962.

Watt, with seven Washington years behind him, was hired
on in the Interior Department in the administration of
President Nixon, first as deputy assistant secretary of water
and power and later as director of the Bureau of Outdoor
Recreation.

He moved from Washington to Denver in 1977 to take over
as president and chief legal officer of the Mountain States
Legal Foundation, a law group substantially funded by
corporations, many with interests related to natural re-
sources. Mountain States was described by Watt asa pro-
business, pro-private enterprise.

wmmoww om museums;
1 7 "

  
 
   

Will Watt (iii—{[13 country?

 
 

Under Watt, it took on a variety of cases challenging the
validity of government rules and regulations. On behalf of a
group of Colorado legislators, it sued the Environmental
Protection Agency for seeking to force the state to adopt an
automobile emissions '.program Twice it was involved in
suits against the Department of Interior. One of those suits
dealt with grazing regulations and the others with rules for -

. mineral leasing in potential wilderness areas, rules industry

felt were too strict. .

When Watt arrived at Interior’s totem pole-guarded doors,
he probably knew more about his department and what he
gagted to do with it than any other member of the Reagan

a inet.

There were wholesale dismissals of appointees from the
Carter administration, and announcements of sweeping poli«
cy changes. The Office of Surface Mining was to be restruc-
tured, its budget cut, and its regulations—so obnoxious to
strip miners—revised. Less than a month after taking office,
Watt abolished the Heritage Conservation and Recreation
Service, successor to the Bureau of Outdoor Recreation.
which he had once run, and moved what remained of its
functions to the National Park Service. ‘

Watt changed the name Water, and Power Resource Serv-
ices back to Bureau of Reclamation. It was a small but
symbolic action. No one in the West had ever figured out
what Water and Power Resource Services meant and the
name change had been considered a ludicrous Carter-
administration action. He also set about achieving one of his
primary goals—opening the public lands for increased ener-
gy development, mining, grazing, and other'resource uses.

The oil and gas industry and- other resource users argue'
the nation would be best served if they had access to as
much public land as possible. Wilderness regulations slow
down their work and add costs, industry contends. Watt’s
basic philosophy is “to lease every parcel of land that should
be leased in the public interest."

WILDERNESS, HE SAYS. is a single-use designation that
can remove land forever from other uses, including energy
resource commitments without knoWing values, " he says.
“That is why I am willing to drill and explore. ”

To environmentalists and conservationists, wilderness is
more than single use. They point to watershed and wildlife
as reasons for preserving wilderness, as well as solitude and
beauty. The energy companies and other resource develop
ers have gotten their fair share of the public lands, they say,
and what is left is worth preserving as it is.

Congress in the last 20 years has passed at least 15 major
pieces of legislation affecting the public lands Watt adminis-
ters, and the regulations spawned by those enactments can
be measured in yards.

Watt and the agency heads under him have undertaken
reviews of regulations on everything from cattle grazing to_
oil shale leasing. Some of the changes likely to come out of it
will help industry without stirring a lot of dust. One is
streamlining responses to industrial requests.

Despite the extent of his discretionary powers, Congress
will have to write new laws in order for Watt to do some of .
the things he wants to accomplish. For instance, Watt would
like to see a 20 to 25 year extension of the Dec. 31,1983
deadline for the filing of mineral claims and granting of
mineral leases in wilderness areas. That deadline was estab-
lished by Congress.

And in Congress, things haven’t all gone Watt’s way. The
House Interior Committee has handed him two notable set.
backs. It vetoed his plan to pay for maintenance of national
parks by diverting money earmarked for the purchase of
additional parklands. And it barred him from granting oil
leases in three Montana wilderness areas by declaring a
state of emergency there.

Inadvertently, Watt has brought some benefits to the
environmental and conservation organizations that Oppose

. him. Calling his adversaries “strict preservationis ” and

“hypocrites, ” he helped put their issues back on the front
page. The Sierra Club reports membership up from 185,000
last November to more than 219, 000 today The Wilderness
Society sent out a fund-raising letter pegged to Watt’ 5
appointment. It drew $144, 000, $68, 000 more than its previous
best total.

 

I AM AN
ENVIRONMENTAL

EXTREMIST.

 

 

 

 

 




 

The federal government holds title to nearly. l!

Le-third of the land in the United States. With

9 election of the developmentrminded Reagan -

lministidtion; environmentalists and energy
terests areinvolvedina heated debate about

1111 best to manage this vast domain, whichgis .
ch both in mineralslan'd scenic beauty. This is'
e first of a two-part series by Associated Press. '
riter Terry Ryan examining the controversy. .- ,3

By Terry Ryan

JACKSON, Wyo. —- The public lands begin
iout a mile outside Jackson. To the north, the 1.,
ghway. edges the National. Elk Refuge into - 1‘

rand Teton National Park toward Yellowstone.
1 the east, south, and west are the 5,3131square
iles of the Bridger-Teton National Forest.

Four million people a year visit Jackson and

.e valley to the north, Jackson Hole. The

1tional parks, Yellowstone» and Grand Teto’n, 1.;
e the major attraction, but an increasing-
imber of visitors are spending time in the.

ridger- Teton Forest.

The Bridger-Teton is the largest national for-
;t outside of Alaska. It is home for several

lOl'lthS each year to parts of the largest elk
3rd in North America. It has 2,000 miles of
1king trails, 1,500 lakes, 40 campgrounds, three

1i areas, and nearly 1,500 square miles of‘

esignated wilderness.

It also has oil and gas. ASg'Of this summer,
lore than 1,600 oil and gas leases in force
)vered 2.2 million acres of theforest’s 3.4
1illion acres. With the exception of wilderness
nd proposed wilderness areas, the Bridger‘

eton is essentially under lease for oil and gas.

evelopment. 1

The fault lines of the Overthrust Belt, right '

ow the hottest oil- exploration area in the 48

ontiguous states, run through the Bridger-.:

'eton Forest to within a few miles of Jackson.
'he boom of seismic- survey explosions on
‘orest Service land southeast of Jackson could

 

(be heard last summer in the town square Last I.
summer, trio, 49 tires were slashed on seismic-
survey trucks parked 1n Jackson and plugs were

loosened on the oil drains of nine of. the trucks.

‘ AT ISSUE IN the Bridger—Teton are questions
central to the increasingly rancorous national
debate over the uses to which the nation’s 737
million acres of public lands are to be put. It is"
a struggle that pits the users of the resources 111.1 ,
1 the public lands—the energy companies, mining
i nt'erests and timber cutters .
ﬂ _;principally.——against a now- institutionalized en~
1 . vironmental movement that lays claim to wide-

spread public support.
Those lands are essential, say the resource

'1; industries, to meeting the nation’s needs for oil, '
- gas, coal, timber.--minerals, and othercom-
,modities, and. they argue they have been un-
wisely excluded from too much of the public
' domain They have found a receptive atmos—
phere this year. in Reagan- administration»

WashingtOn, and a champion in Interior Secre-
t:ary James G. Watt
1 “we have charted a course to bring balance

'to the use of the resources,” says Watt, point ,

man and chief flak- taker in an attempt to redi-

rect the public lands policies of the past two“
“We have determined that we will,

decades.
make decisions in the nation’s interest, the
people’s interest, balancing all the values.”
Watt’ 3 arguments, and those of his constituen~
cy, are couched in terms of private enterprise,
economic security, national defense and quality
of life. To counter his critics, Watt began a. tour of

Western states Friday, but he reiterated his."
policy to bring back “multiple use” of federal

lands that had been. withdrawn from economic
activity. 1 '

STEWART UDALL was secretary of the in-
terior from 1961 to 1969 in the administrations of
presidents John Kennedy and Lyndon Johnson.
“He has a different definition of the public

interest,” Udall says of Watt. “I don’ t know any‘

secretary of. this century who has been anti-

Q,

 

1 151 to future generations. ”
He adds:
Interior Department. The bank is not money. It
is something more important—Abe resources of
the United States " ‘
. Udall was appointed by Kennedy. Together
they presided over the beginning of the third
great wave of the American conservation move~

{merit as public lands historians call it.

Since 1964, for example, 80 million acres (56
1~ million of them 1n Alaska) have been designated
“as wilderness areas, where oil leaSes are fea—

7 ,sible but actual drilling or development has

been in effect ruled out.

A welter of new laws produced a mass of new

rules and regulations, many of which Watt and

Watt wants to change.
Much of what Watt says he wants to do can be
accomplishsed through administrative action.

New regulations also are in the works or have
been put forth to govern oil- shale development
on federal reserves the grazing of cattle on
mereau of Lands Management lands, and the
m'anagem ent of wild horses and coyotes on leased
federal lands.

WATT PROPOSED major Changes for the
management of national parks and says he
wanted to open them to more people by reduc-
ing restrictions on the use of vehicles and
motorized rafts, a plan viewed as anathema by
environmentalists.

His major goal, however, remains to increase
mineral exploration and development on the
. public lands-J‘to lease every parcel of land that

via-should be leased in the public interest.”

Watt’ 3 speedup of leasing of offshore federal
, . lands for oil and gas development landed him 1n

‘ court in California and even some industry

'officials have complained that it is too much,
‘ too fast. He will have to go to Congress for other
things he says he wants, including an extension

13/11;

‘3 development, but there was always this feeling
1” of management of resources with a responsibili~ \ Dec 31 1933 deadline for mineral leasing 011‘

“You’re running a bank at the

‘ IDAHO

the resources industry find onerous and which _

. GRAND TETOISA

 

~“20 or és’years, something like that” -- of the

federal wilderness lands. . 1
The mandate of the public land management
agencies was overhauled by Congress during
the past. two decades, culminating in 1976 with
passage of the Federal Land Management and
Policy Act. Sustained yield of resources and.
multiple use» of‘ public lands for mineral de-

velopment, wildlife habitat, recreation and

Continued on following page

 

\

  
   
    
    

 

 

 

 

. NATIONAL fAHK
.10
< .' ‘ .L»
33 glacksonVé
—1\
:1: 1"
2n , \1
1 c; ' BRIDGEF?’
m ‘1, NATIONAL
"‘ ,1 FOREST
tn 3 ,-
m c '
I‘- t ‘l
"i ' {IAtton 1
.. , 1 .
’ .' 5.11 ;. 3
’ Montpelier '1, ..J

 

 

{01-11111

hicago Tribune Map

 

as




 

 

CONNECTI CUT
MAGAZ INE

SEPTEMBER 1981

LETTERS

 

Views, Opinions and Commentary

 

Connecticut magazine welcomes letters
from its readers. Writers must include
name and address. The editor reserves the
right to shorten letters in order to accom-
modate as many views as possible.

A TIME UNDERCOVER

I have worked undercoverin the regional
crime squad system for almost five years
and I still work undercover on occasion. I
have just ﬁnished reading “A Time Under-
cover” by Leo Damore in the July 1981
issue and I think both you and Pete Santan-
gelo should have your heads examined for
printing Pete‘s picture in Connecticut.
Don’t get me wrong, I liked the article very
much. The men who served on the Con-
necticut Regional Crime Squads deserve
the credit they never received when they
worked undercover. But for the one person
who thanked Pete, the rest would probably
like to cut his throat. '

Editor’s note: Name and address withheld
per author’s request.

AN ANGLER’S OSYSSEY

Don Wade’s article “An Angler’s Odys-
sey” in the July issue was quite interesting
even though I am not a ﬁsherman. Since I
live in New Fairfield, the mention of Ball
Pond and Lake Candlewood in the same ar-
ticle caught my eye. One of the fishing
spots mentioned on Lake Candlewood
(across from Sand Island by Bond’s Neck)
is not a place I know. I have a feeling Wade
misunderstood Chemiske. The spot men-
tioned is probably “Vaughn’s Neck.” The
town of New Fairﬁeld, along with North—
east Utilities, has developed the western
shore of the area’s southern part for pic-
nicking. It is one of the few places on the
lake open to nonresident boaters. There is a
$3 fee for landing, which is collected by
employees of the New Fairﬁeld Park and
Recreation Commission. Additional infor-
mation may be obtained from the afore-
mentioned commission.

Ernest Lehman
New Fairﬁeld

A TIME OF EVIL

Sincere thanks for printing Tom Killen’s
“A Time of Evil” article in the March l98l
issue. It is accurate, objective, compas-

sionate and timely. There is one quote by
June Havoc, though, that I would like to
correct. She states the purpose of the Com-
mittee for the First Amendment, when they
protested in Washington against the House
Committee on Un-American Activities,
was to support Dore Schary, not us. The
record, including the speech by novelist

Thomas Mann, leaves no doubt they were
supporting and defending the First Amend-
ment. and us. As for Dore Schary, nothing
should be permitted to befog history and his
role at the time. After an admirable speech
before the committee. he made a quick
switch at the behest of his bosses and in two

(Continued on page 2 9 )

 

 

‘DUMP THE BATH WATER BUT SAVE THE BABY,"
FORMER COMMISSIONER TELLS REAGAN

Editor’s Note: The following is an open let-
ter to President Reagan by Dan W. Luﬂrin,
former Connecticut Commissioner of Envi-
ronmental Protection.

Dear Mr. President:

I write to you as a citizen with a heavy
burden of frustration, concern and anger.
The reasons are not obscure. As I have
written previously to your chief of staff,
James Baker, “What the administration is
doing in environmental affairs is crazy.“

It’s as simple as that, Mr. President. The
appointments have been at best extreme, at
worst bizarre; the stated policies have been
retrogressive, catapulting us back to the
days of grab and plunder, which led to the
conservation movement under Theodore
Roosevelt; the meat ax approach to gutting
programs under the guise of cutting
budgets is the wrong weapon, on the wrong
victim, at the wrong time.

Mr. President, I am not some “environ-
mental nut” as some of your advisers seem
to regard all who care about the environ-
ment. I am a lifetime Republican; a strong
supporter of the Reagan-Bush ticket; abusi-
nessman; a long time advocate of the
strengthening of states’ rights, responsibil—
ities and powers; a former Commissioner
of Environmental Protection in Connecti-
cut; and, what to me is most ironic, Chair-
man of the Task Force you established as
President-elect to advise you on the envi-
ronment.

Our report to you, Mr. President, was
put together by some of the most responsi-
ble business and environmental leadership
in the country, including all of the federal
administrators of the Environmental Pro-
tection Agency who had served under the
administrations of Presidents Nixon and
Ford.

In the preamble to our report, we tried to

set the basic environmental philosophy of
your administration ——based on our knowl-
edge of your admirable record of concern
and action as Governor of California. And
so we drafted this simple statement of phil—
osophy: “Protecting and enhancing the en-
vironment will be one of the major con-
cerns of the Reagan presidency. As with
the economy, with national defense, with
energy, the goal of this administration will
be to improve the quality of life for the
American people; to make the natural and
human environment better when we leave
office than when we came in. This is how I
would like my administration to be remem-
bered."

Mr. President, you are now writing the
history of the Reagan administration and if
you continue as you have begun in the field
of the environment, I am very much afraid
that history will not be kind to you; for you
will be remembered by future generations
as the president whose policies led to the
destruction of our wilderness land; the cor-
ruption of our national parks; the wasting of
our irreplaceable resources; the elimination
of significant programs of environmental
research; the emasculation of regulations
vital to clean air and water and the control
of toxic substances; and the irreversible
deterioration of our crucial life-support
systems.

Your own feelings for the outdoors. for
nature. for conservation of resources would
not permit you to betray the environmental
ethic purposely and deliberately. But the
course that some of your key advisers are
setting for you threatens those very princi-
ples that led to your election and will inevit—
ably lead to a reaction that will be totally
destructive to the political and philosophi—
cal goals you have so admirably set out to
achieve.

(Continued on page 8)

 

 

 




 

 

 

LETTERS

 

( Continued from page 6)

I will not add to the current debate over
personalities, which is polarizing the envi—
ronmental community and causing impor—
tant issues of substance to be submerged in
arguments over style. I will leave to others
what one writer has called, “Wattomania.”
Your appointees to cabinet and sub-cabinet
positions must of necessity reﬂect your
views. Thus, it is up to you to decide in
good conscience whether they are serving
you well. Inevitably, the electorate will
help you make this determination. And his-
tory will record the accuracy of their ap-
praisal.

As a former Commissioner of Environ-
mental Protection, I would rather address
myself to that one crucial issue of substance
that I believe will be the litmus test of the
credibility and acceptability of your admin-
istration’s entire environmental program. I
refer to the forthcoming revisions of the
Clean Air Act, in my estimation one of the
most important single pieces of federal leg-
islation relating to the environment, to hu-
man health, to the economy and to all those
values we include when we speak of “quali-
ty of life.”

For upwards of three years immediately
following the passage of the Clean Air Act,
I administered this law in Connecticut, a
heavily industrialized state whose air quali-
ty, health and physical environment had
' deteriorated greatly because of emissions
discharged into the atmosphere both within
our own borders and carried to us from
sources outside our small state.

Because of the ﬂexibility and indepen-
dence given to the state in meeting federal
1 standards, we were able to get air pollution
control out from under the thumb of the in-
ept and inactive State health departments,
and determine how and in What time frame
we were going to achieve the desired and
mandated results. More than that, we were
able to bring into the decision making pro-
cess individual citizens, industrial groups,
environmentalists and members of the state
government, all of whom had a stake in the
outcome.

Since then, admittedly the air quality
throughout the United States, and even
Connecticut, has not been brought under
control uniformly or on schedule. Unfore-
seen economic factors have intervened.
The energy crisis has impacted on efforts to
ﬁnd cleaner fuels. Achievement of auto
emission standards has had to be delayed.

But despite these serious problems, the
Clean Air Act has served us well. While no
law ever written cannot be improved, this
law has been singularly effective: a strong
shield of protection for human health; a
clear and unambiguous challenge to pollu-
tors to meet reasonable standards in a rea-
sonable time frame, or suffer reasonable
penalties. And, in keeping with your own
political philosophy, it has given to the
states the greatest degree of control and

 

 

 

LETTERS

 

 

creativity in meeting the standards estab-
lished for the nation's air.

In revising any law, we must be careful
not to throw the baby out with the bath
water. But from what I have been able to
ascertain through advance documents and
statements, the administration‘s plan is to
throw out baby, tub and all. I urge you to
rethink this extreme approach to regula-
tion.

To eliminate secondary federal stan-
dards; to reduce air quality to a local option;
to destroy the govemment’s power to pun-
ish those who evade the law; to lower re-
quirements for up-to-date technology; to
withdraw protection from those areas with
air quality already above the national stan-
dard is to create an unworkable, unenforce-
able , impractical and ineffective travesty of
regulation on which so much of our human
and physical survival depends.

Budget cuts have already reduced our
ability to do the research necessary to deter-
mine with sufficient accuracy what those
cost-beneﬁt ratios are that are being used to

justify the cutbacks in standards, 'time .

frames and penalties.

Further withdrawal of the federal pres-
ence will mean a fatal delay in our ability to
solve such potentially lethal problems as
acid rain which, as you know, cannot be
controlled simply by adherence to local air
quality standards.

To corrupt the Clean Air Act by taking
away those provisions that give it meaning,

motivation, urgency and enforcement is to ‘

give a signal to the American people and
the world that our environmental ethos
once again is “the public be damned.” Only
this time, we are damning not only the pub-
lic today but for all time.

No laws are perfect. The Clean Air Act
needs review, analysis and some modem-
ization and streamlining to meet very sig-
nificant changes in circumstances. But,
Mr. President, it’s a good law. It has been
well administered, the public supports it as
does most enlightened business. It has
achieved measurable reductions in several
of the most noxious pollutants. It gives the
states power to largely control the health of
their citizens and to contribute to the well—
being of the nation. Isn’t this what your ad-
ministration stands for?

I understand very well, Mr. President,
the urgency of the many issues that cross
your desk each day; issues of war or peace,
prosperity or depression; growth or decay.
I would urge you to recognize issues relat-
ing to the environment are no less critical.
no less linked to our survival as a system
and a people than any of these, although
perhaps of a longer time frame.

I ask you not to let these issues be re—

solved by extremists of any stripe, by ideo-
logues of any persuasion, by the hired guns

of either public or private interests.
As we said in our Task Force Report:
(Continued on page 29)

LETTERS

 

 

 

 

( C antinuedfrom page ll )
“To achieve our national goals Will take a
degree of cooperation between the private

; and public sectors and with government at

all levels that has not yet been exhibited in
our national life. One of your first priorities
as president should be to provide the kind
of leadership, the respect for competing
concerns and objectives that will make this
cooperation possible.” _
With all respect and esteem. Mr. Presi-
dent, this spirit has not been demonstrated
in the area of environmental affairs. In-
stead, war has been declared and the battle
lines drawn. Now is the time for you to step
in and bring us all back to our senses. The
1981 revisions to the Clean Air Act are a
good place to begin.
Dan. W. Lufkin
Lakeville

 

 

 




 

United States

 

 

A Wilderness of Lawsuits

 

Environmentalists are going to court to stop Secretary Watt

N o doubt about it, Dick Davenport is
plenty steamed. Husband of Con-
gresswoman Lacey Davenport in Garry
Trudeau’s Doonesbury comic strip, he dis-
covered last week that US. Secretary of
the Interior James Watt plans to open
Davenport’s beloved Matagorda Island
Wildlife Refuge in Texas to developers.
“Watt can’t do that!” fumes the courtly
Davenport, his straw boater slightly
askew. “It’s outrageous and unconsciona-
ble!” So furious is he that, “as secretary
of the Maryland Audubon Society, I’m se-
riously thinking of demanding Watt’s res-
ignation in our next newsletter!”

 

gress did not know what they were
doing,’ ” says Watt. But Watt’s critics
claim he is doing precisely that—selec-
tively interpreting the laws to suit his own
policies. Says Lewis Regenstein, executive
vice president of the Fund for Animals:
“Someone has got to stand up and say,
‘This is what Congress meant.’ We’re
counting on the courts to do that.”

The most important suit brought
against Watt so far centers on his plan to
offer for lease a billion acres foroﬂshore
oil and gas exploration over the next ﬁve
years. As an initial step, Watt announced
last April that he planned to auction 31

Why is this man smiling?TheSecretarydeIig11tsln a supporter’s sign in Fairbanks, Alaska

 

The Dick Davenports of the nation are uniting to sue him ‘h’ght and left. "

That sort of empty gesture used to be
a hallmark of conservation groups, but no
more. Not only are environmentalists
clamoring for Watt’s ouster, they are try-
ing to draw and quarter him in the courts
for what they view as his eﬁ‘orts to turn
back the environmental clock. “He’s be-
ing sued right and left,” crows Craig Van
Note, executive vice president of the en-
vironmental group Monitor Consortium.
And Patrick Parenteau, legal counsel for
the National Wildlife Federation, predicts
an “explosion of litigation” as Watt’s
plans for developing the nation’s natural
resources take shape.

In his defense, Watt claims that he is
only following the laws as set down by
Congress, not as they have been selec-
tively interpreted by past departmental
ofﬁcials. “In recent years we have seen
programs administered by those who do
not respect the law but feel, ‘Oh well, Con-

 

tracts oﬂ‘ the California coast near Santa
Barbara. A coalition of groups, including
the state of California and the Natural
Resources Defense Council, immediately
sued to stop the sale. The plaintiﬂ‘s’ law-
yers argued that the proposed drilling
threatened the coastline as well as the
area’s sea otters and other endangered
species. More persuasively, they main-
tained that Washington did not have the
authority to lease those areas without ﬁrst
considering the state’s right of jurisdic-
tion. US. District Judge Mariana Pfael-
zer agreed and last July barred the sale.
Though the decision led Watt to with-
draw four more basins off the Northern
California coast from the auction block,
he vows to ﬁght his battle all the way to
the Supreme Court. Meanwhile, several
other states, including Maine and Alas-
ka, are poised to sue the Interior Depart-
ment if it goes ahead with plans to lease

im still};

 

some of their offshore territory. Washing-
ton Energy Analyst Roger Copland be-
lieves that the odds are in Watt’s favor to
win his case eventually, but his critics are
encouraged by the California decision.
Says Sara Chasis, staff attorney for the
Natural Resources Defense Council: “We
proved that Watt is stoppable.”

Watt’s decision to allow mineral and
energy exploration in wilderness areas
promises to turn up an equally rich lode
of legal squabbles. Last May he and the
House Interior and Insular Affairs Com-
mittee clashed over whether the
l million-acre Bob Marshall preserve in
Montana should be opened for such de-
velopment, and committee members or-
dered the land withdrawn from leasing
arrangements. The Mountain States Le- '
gal Foundation, the pro-development
public interest law ﬁrm that Watt once
headed, sued the Interior Department to
open up Bob Marshall. In an unusual ma-
neuver, the Justice Department informed
Congress in August that it would not de-
fend the committee’s action and, indeed,
would join the foundation in its battle.
The latest twist came three weeks ago
when the Wilderness Society ﬁled suit
against Watt charging that he colluded
with the Mountain States group to sue his
own department. Both suits are being
tried before a Montana federal judge, and
a decision is expected in late fall.

hree Appalachian conservation

groups plan to sue Watt this week for
failing to curb abuses of the rule that ex-
empts strip mining done on plots of less
than two acres from environmental safe-
guards; several environmental groups are
also threatening legal action if Watt keeps
his promise to allow states to devise more
lenient strip mining regulations. The Na-
tional Wildlife Federation predicts that
Watt will be sued for allowing overgraz-
ing on federal lands. As for Davenport’s
cherished Matagorda Island, a covey of
environmental groups plans to meet with
Interior staffers this week to ask that it
be kept pristine.

Environmentalists acknowledge that
many of the Secretary’s most sweeping
moves—refusing to ask for more money
for new national parks, for example, and
appointing pro-development personnel to
key Interior posts—cannot be challenged
in court. They admit that many of their
lawsuits are attempts to buy time until
they can succeed in dumping Watt. But
White House aides stoutly deny that the
Secretary is an endangered species. Even
if Reagan’s support does turn lukewarm.
Watt will be a formidable adversary. He
was one of the shrewdest anticonservation
lawyers in the nation before taking over
the department and has a keen sense of
when to ﬁght in court and when to retreat.
But with one-ﬁfth of America’s acreage at
stake, the Dick Davenports may be stirred
up enough to take off their boaters and
stop him in his tracks. -—By James Kelly.
Reported by Gary [99/ Washington

 

22

TIME. SEPTEMBER 14. 1981

 

 




A14 L

 

'THE NEW YORK TIMES, THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 1981

 

Watt May Lift Ban on Mining Near Park

By PHILIP smascorr
Special tom NOV Yeti Times

WASHINGTON. Sept. 2 -- Interior
Secretary James G. Watt is considering
a recommendation to permit strip min-
ing next to Bryce Canyon National Park
in Utah. department officials and envi-
ronmentalists reported today.

Cecil D. Andrus, who was Secretary of
the Interior in the Carter Administra-
tion. had prohibited mining on 9,000
acres of the Alton coal fieldin response
to a petition by environmentalists. They
contended that proposed strip mining
there, immediately adjoining the park,
would ruin the panorama from the
park’s southern border and cause air
and noise pollution. '

Opposing Suits Being Heard

The Federal District Court for South-
ern Utah is hearing litigation over that
decision. The litigation involves suits by
the mining industry, which contends
that the entire coal field should be acces.
sible to mining Operations. and by envi-
ronmental groups that want to protect
more of the area adjacent to the park.

Mr. Watt confirmed in a telephone
conversation that he was considerin
recommendations by his staff that the
court he asked to return the case to the
Interior Department for reconsidera-
. tion, but be said that he had reached no

decision yet. i J

The interior Department must reach
a decision by Sept. 21. the date on which
the . Justice Department must file its

 

position with the court.

According to an official in the Interior
Department. the Alton coal field is part
of the Reagan Administration’s general
reconsideration of current policy requir-
ingsafeguards for scenic vistas outside
national parks and other protected Fed-
eral areas. This issue is‘expected to be
among those taken up by Congress this

year when it considers changes in the.

Clean Air Act. ,
Park Service‘Backs Ban

Within the Interior Department, offi- .

cials said, the National Park Service be-
lieves it is necessary to defend Mr. An-
drus’s ban on mining while other agen-
cies’concemed with energy and miner-
als development are urging Mr. Watt to
reverse Mr. Andrus's decision.

Mr. Watt has been under heavy attack
from environmental groups, Congres-
sional Democrats and others for policies

that shift the emphasis of the Interior ' “

Department's activities from protection
of public lands and resources to develop-
ment of such resources. ‘

The decision on the Alton coal field is
important becauseMr. Andrus’s prohi.

g bition of strip mining near the park was

the first. and so far the only. such action
under the Surface Mining Act of 1977. A
reversal of that decision could set a
broad precedent for energy and mineral
development near Federal lands. ‘
Mining in the Alton coal field was
originally urged to provide fuel for the
proposed $5 billion Allen-Warner Valley

 

energy. project, which would produce
electricity, largely for California, from
two big power plants to be built in Utah
and Nevada. 4 ‘ " - ,

Earlier this year two California utili-
ties sponsoring the project dropped it for
a number of reasons, including the pos-
sible disapproval by - the California
Energy Commission. But the Nevada
Power Company is still interested in the
project. ' ‘

A memorandum to Mr. Watt from

Daniel N. Miller Jr., Assistant Secre-
tary of the Interior for energy- and
minerals, recommends that the record
on the Alton coal field projeCt be re
opened because of new information
placed before the court and because of
allegationsthat Mr. Andrus did/not pro-
vide . sufficient opportunity for public
comment before reaching his decision.

Environmentalists Concerned

_ David Mastbaum, a lawyer for the
Environmental Defense Fund. one of

the groups suing the Government to in-.

crease the protection of Bryce Canyon
from the impact of strip mining; said his
group was concerned that r. Watt
might reverse Mr. Andrus's decision.

“The evidence is simply overwhelm-
ing,” Mr. Mastbaum said. "that mining
in any portion of the Alton field pivould
result in irreparable harm j-to Bryce
Canyon and hundreds of thousands of
visitors who come there each year.”

Mr. Mastbaum and other opponents of

#A
ﬁv

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘$-.
I / .-:-f'-‘.-1;1:’-
' ‘.'.-.."v’,v.
L: "f

SWSSau Lake

ity

UTAH

Bryce Canyon
National Park

 

 

 

 

 

 

The New York Timu/ Sept. 3. I“!

. Coal fieldis adjacent to southern
border of Bryce Canyon Park.

 

 

mining near the" parit say there are
many other alternatives, including
other sources of coal, for providing
energy to southern California and the,
Southwest.

However, John C. Ferrell. Project
manager of the Alton field for Utah In-
ternational Inc., which would mine the
coal, said that the coal field outside
Bryce Canyon was the most efficient
and economical supply for the envi-
sioned power plants. He also maintained
that the operation would cause no dam-
agetothe park.

“If I thought the operations would do
anything bad to that canyon i wouldn't

 

 

 

 

work for this company,’ ’ he said.

 

 

 

-- 12235.1.» . , M - w

__.._.._.__.._..___..___._~__...._.L__.‘a_ ~




We, the undersigned, petition the Congress of the United States of America to enact into law H.R.
1797 to end the use of the steel jaw leghold trap. We cannot tolerate continued use of this anti-
quated, indiscriminate device which breaks bones, crushes nerves and causes many animals to
gnaw off their own feet to escape. We strongly urge immediate favorable action before the next
trapping season when countless creatures will die in agony if the trap is not banned.

We respectfully request that Representative Henry Waxman (D, CA), Chairman of the House
Subcommittee on Health and the Environment, schedule hearings on H.R. 1797 and that Senator
ohn Chafee (R, R1), Chairman of the Senate Suchmmittee on Environmental Pollution,
schedule hearings on S. 2389, a bill to end interstate shipment of these barbaric devices.

 

Name

Address

City

State Zip

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




We, the undersigned, petition the Congress of the United Statesof America to enact into law H.R.
1797 to end the use of the steel jaw leghold trap. We cannot tolerate continued use of this anti-
quated, indiscriminate device which breaks bones, crushes nerves and causes many animals to
gnaw off their own feet to escape. We strongly urge immediate favorable action before the next
trapping season when countless creatures will die in agony if the trap is not banned.

We respectfully request that Representative Henry Waxman (D, CA), Chairman of the House
Subcommittee on Health and the Environment, schedule hearings on H.R. 1797 and that Senator
John Chafee (R, RI), Chairman of the Senate Subcommittee on Environmental Pollution,
schedule hearings on S. 2389, a bill to end interstate shipment of these barbaric devices.

 

Name Address City State ip

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 




ALTERNATIVES 29 THE STEEL JAW LEGHOLD TRAP

 

THE STEEL JAW LEGHOLD TRAP...

.-. consists of a metal ring, hinged at the
middle, and activated by a powerful
spring. When an animal steps on the
“pan” at the center, the steel jaws
snap together on the limb. The grip
must be tight enough to prevent the
creature from prying its foot loose. De—
bilitating injuries often result from the
trap's closing impact and the animal's
frenzied struggle to free itself. These
include fractured bones, lacerations,
gangrene, and broken teeth from biting
at the painful grapples. As trappers
know, it is not uncommon for a des—
perate mammal to gnaw off its cap—
tured foot, and leave it behind.

Even a professional trapper cannot

designate which animals will wander

into the steel jaws. As much as 71%
of captives may be non—target Victims. Oftentimes the trapper releases
these animals, believing them to be unharmed. Where follow—up studies
have been conducted, severe disabilities are found to have occurred.
Such creatures may be too disabled to exist in the wild, and simply
perish.

THERE ARE EFFICIENT, LESS CRUEL ALTERNATIVES! These include the
EZYONEM legsnare, Swedish legsnare, Aldrich footsnare, Victor Power
Snare, Novak legsnare, and a variety of box and cage traps.

The EZYONEM Legsnare...

... is a compact, spring activated trap which has
been proven effective in capturing fox, coyote, and bobcat
without maiming them or inflicting severe pain. When an
animal steps on the l'pan" of the EZYONEM trap, a neo—
prene coated cable, with ends clamped inside a tele-
scoping barrel, loops around the creature's leg. Two
barrel sections spring outward, closing the noose a—
round the limb. At the moment of ensnarement, there
is no contact between the animal's leg and the poly—
carbon trap body, and the captive experiences no
pain. Because the cable forms a 270 degree loop a—
round the captured limb, circulation is not blocked
and necrosis of the leg tissues is prevented. While
field tests demonstrate that a fox, rotating its paw
as few as six times in a steel jaw trap, can break the
skin, lOOO revolutions can be made in the new EZYONEM
(easy-on—‘em) without suffering these consequences. In
addition, the smooth plastic encasement eliminates tooth
damage. For these reasons, non—target captives can be
released unharmed.

Using a dirt hole set, the trap is easily rigged in five

to ten minutes. All parts are replaceable in the field.
Weighing about one—half that of a No. 2 steel jaw trap,

the EZYONEM is convenient to carry when setting long trap—

lines. Furthermore, its one and one—eighth inch diameter and
four and one—half inch length make it concealable. When sprung,
the barrels extend to twelve inches.

The SWEDISH Legsnare...

... is similar to the EZYONEM in that it also utilizes

a coated cable loop to capture
_ _ﬁj ,n.f‘ m.,.ﬂ,r.., . . .1” .n.,.- prey and then holds the cap-

(gxfﬁlgfigﬂﬁ..fﬁ$}£$ﬁ$$¢,5fi<ﬁlﬁgr»»w&fg§3 tive without progressive
.-. _ _ . 5 pressure. The function—
lggggu ‘ al parts of the Swedish
Legsnare, also known as

Jan's Catcher, are con-

tained inside a white

 




tubular body measuring 25 inches in length and one and one—half inches in
diameter. Because of its size, this instrument is primarily used in snow.
The spring activated trap is considered most efficient in the capture of
long—legged mammals such as fox, bobcat, coyote and lynx. Like the EZYON—
EM, it has few working parts to replace and requires little maintenance.
After use, both of these plastic encasements need only to be rinsed with
water. The Swedish Legsnare is patented in the U.S.A.

The ALDRICH Footsnare...

is a modified version of the familiar Aldrich
Bear Snare. Consisting of a standard wire
snare of galvanized airplane cable and a
spring activated throw arm, this ”power
trap” has all functional parts ex—
posed. When an animal steps on the
triggering mechanism, the spring arm
moves upward, flinging the wire loop
around the mammal's leg and pulling it
tightly. A locking device on the cable
prevents the noose from cutting off cir—
culation, and a humane strap can be at—
tached to the cable to protect the captive's
limb from irritation. Three cable lengths and
strengths are available for the ensnarement of
mammals ranging in size from fox to cougar to griz—
zly bear. Like the aforementioned traps, the Aldrich
Footsnare is effective in capturing wild animals for
biological studies and has long been used for this pur-
pose.

The VICTOR POWER SNARE...

... which operates on the

same principle as the

Aldrich Footsnare, has

proven to be another ef—

ficient alternative to the

steel jaw leghold trap for the

capture of both canines and felines.

The Power Snare is available with two

cable strengths. Measuring approximately

fourteen inches in length, the metal trap is slightly lighter than a
No. 2 steel jaw leghold trap, and requires similar maintenance.

The NOVAK Legsnare... .
... was developed prior to the Victor Power Snare
by a furbearer biologist with Ontario's Ministry of Natural Resources.
Consisting of a spring activated noose with a locking device, it is
very similar to the Victor trap. Field tests by two professional trap—
pers found that 52% of animals captured in conventional steel jaw traps
were seriously injured as compared with only 2% of those caught in the
Novak Legsnare. The prospects for the future manufacture of the Novak
Legsnare are good.

BOX and CAGE Traps...

... lure animals inside with an attractive bait which is placed on a pan
within the device. When the pan is touched, the cage door slams shut, and
the creature is captured. Since the animal
is not held by an extremity, traps of this
nature do not inflict pain or debilitate the
'captive. However, an animal may damage teeth
or other body parts during its struggle to
free itself. For this reason, all traps——
including legsnares and cage traps—-must be
inspected daily.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Box and cage traps are especially useful on farms to re—
move animals which cause crop damage. Constructed of galvanized wire and
heavy steel rod, such traps are available in both rigid and collapsible mod—
els. Folding cages, which collapse to a compact one inch in thickness, can
be opened in a matter of seconds. With the use of snowmobiles and autos, a
large number of these traps can be set with ease.

SOCIETY FOR ANIMAL PROTECTIVE LEGISLATION
P.O. BOX 3719, Washington, D.C. 20007

 




