 
 

 

A N I! MA IL. \VAV/ IE IL lF/A IRE

A _ CHALLENGE

 

 

It is submitted for your consideration

1. That there can be no difference in PRINCIPLE between the right
treatment of Human Beings and the right treatment of Animals.

2. That the exploitation of Animals differs only in KIND and DEGREE
from the exploitation of Human Beings.

3. That acceptance in principle of the exploitation of animals involves
acceptance in principle of exploitation generally. 1

 

4. That candour demands the recognition of exploitation where it
occurs, and acknowledgment of responsibility therefor.

5. ' That study of the need for and means .of improving the condition
and treatment of animals must rationally proceed from the departure-point
of the ills inﬂicted upon them by mankind, and not from that of the
eXcuses proffered for the inﬂiction of such ills.

6. That examination proves that in the civilisation of to-day the
general ill—usage .of animals is increasing instead of decreasing.

7. That this increase occurs in spite of the contemporary increase of
~ humane feeling in the average human being, and is due in part to
general ignorance of its existence, and in part to the increasing commer-
cialisation of all means of supply, transport and destruction.

8. That the exploitation of animals is incidental to most and basic
to some of the aspects of modern daily life. (See notes below).

9. That means of reducing, and in some cases of eliminating suchl
exploitation are discoverable, and

1.0. That they must be”. adopted if the ethical progress of mankind is
to continue.

  




AN INCOMPLETE, CATALOGUE

of forms of ill-usage of animals, occuring in connection with

Food. Slaughter of millions. Breeding for slaughter. Breeding for
meat-bearing, involving degradation in intelligence and distortionin bodily
form. ’ -

Clothing. Furs ; involving torture by trapping of vast majority, and
breeding for killing of remainder. Feathers; often obtained by suffering.
Hand and foot wear; the greater part supplied by bye-products of food,
but some, e.g., reptile-skin shoes and garments; by killing, and sometimes
breeding, creatures which would otherwise go uanlested.

Industry. Employment under unsuitable conditions, e.g., horses and
ponies in mines, sale of cast horses for work or butChery overseas,
overworking and over-loading, close and constant chaining of watch—dogs,
use of cats as scarecrows.

Companionship. Destruction or abandonment of unwanted dogs and
cats. Caging of wild birds. Cage-breeding.

Amusement. Hunting and shooting». Breeding for shooting. Exter-
mination of “big game.” Mis-use or wild animals for spectacular ﬁlms.
Menagerie, circus and performing animals generally.

Instruction. Public and private collections of caged animals.

Physiology. Animals used for experiments (vivisection). -

Medicine. (As Physiology). Animals used in preparation of serums
and vaccines. Test animals for drugs and poisons.

War. Animals used in campaigns. Animals. used in

‘ poison gas ”
experiments. »

 

NATIONAL COUNCIL FOR ANIMALS’ WELFARE » w:- .‘

36;“Geedenm’8qu-arerbon’do'ﬁfwm. . 2

‘AE

~.." -,
x 33.21. . .3, ,' ,{. ; ‘t 4‘—-

 




