 

 

a»
n
O
5
a
m
e
6
Y
b
E

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

 

THREE REASONS

FOR

HUMANITY TO ANIMALS.

 

 

AN ADDRESS TO THE BARMOUTH BRANCH

OF

THE SELBORNE SOCIETY.

READ MAY 28TH, 1896.

BY

FRANCES POWER COBBE.

 

 

PRINTED FOR
FRANCES POWER COBBE, HENGWET, DOLGELLY,
BY PEWTRESS & 00., 28, LITTLE QUEEN STREET, LONDON, W.C.

 

 

 

 




-- A.— _..w’-m~—-w*d

—--——~- -——-~.'—-——-—'~v—...‘ *‘V-r—

 

 

 




 

 

THREE REASONS FOR HUMANITY TO
ANIMALS.

 

 

RN HDDRESS.

 

Mr._ CHAIRMAN, Mrs, TALBOT, LADIES, and GENTLEMEN,—

The objects of the Selborne Society were stated at its last Annual
Meeting, held a week or two ago,—to be these :—

“To preserve from unnecessary destruction such wild animals
and plants'as are harmless, beautiful or rare; to discourage the
wearing and use for ornament of birds and their plumage, except
when the birds are killed for food or reared for their plumage ; to
protect places and objects of antiquarian interest or natural beauty
from ill—treatment or destruction; to promote the study of natural
history.”

I shall take the liberty of condensing this programme into one
sentence: “ To Promote the highest hind of Taste.” By the “highest
taste” I mean something even higher than the taste for true and
noble Art,—namely, genuine delight in the beauty of Nature as
revealed in sea and mountains, trees and ﬂowers, brutes and birds.
The joy taken in such things is assuredly among the purest and
loftiest which has been given to our humanity; and it is one which,
in its religious aspect, lifts the soul of man into a region Where he
may, in his poor measure, sympathize with the great Author of all

the loveliness of the world. As Kepler exclaimed in awe and

 




 

 

 

 

 

 

4

wonder when he had discovered the law of the planetary distances : '

“ O God! I think Thy thoughts after Thee!” So he whose
heart beats in rapture at the sudden View of some splendid land-
SCape, er of the sun going down in glory behind the crimson clouds,
may humbly cry: “ O God, I love the Beauty Thou lovest, for
Thou hast made Thy world beautiful! ” Well did Milton make
the ﬁrst Man begin his ﬁrst morning’s prayer with the majestic
hymn :— I
“These are Thy glorious works, Parent of Good Almighty ! ”
But like every true Taste, the Taste for the Beauty of Nature
must have, as its complement and counterpart, a distaste (literally
“ disgust ”) for everything unbeautiful; everything which violates
and spoils the beauty of the world. As are jarring colours to a
painter’s eye, and discordant notes to a musician‘s ear, so to the
lover of Nature are ruined waterfalls, (like those at Foyers and at
our own Gwynfynedd), and prostrate woods, (like those we see new
around Dolgelly and Abergwynant), and ravaged wildﬂowers, and the
hateful substitution for such things of iron houses and machinery
Wheels, ﬂaunting advertisements and tall smoking chimneys.
Our love and care for the Beauty implies our desire to stop the
destruction of it. In the View then, of this double character of
the objects of our Society, we may parody for it the cumbrous
title of a famous old pious Association, and say it exists for the
“Discountenancing of Ugliness and the Promotion of the Love of
Nature and Natural Beauty.”
New in this programme, the protection of ANIMALS from cruelty
and wanton destruction, takes conspicuous place; for the simple

reason that living things are the most beautiful and interesting of all

the works of Nature. We, as Selbornites, are bound to protest.

 

 




 

 

 

5

against the mutilation or useless slaughter of birds or brutes, 'on
the ground that such acts despoil Nature of her ornaments, and turn
what were things of beauty and delight into something piteous 'to
look upon. I have often thought it strange that men with high
aesthetic pretensions—Landseer, for example, and the present
President of the Royal Academy—can be sportsmen and artists at
the same time. Some harmless creature, lovely in its freedom of
the woods and moors, offers a target for their guns, and lo! a
moment after, this artist, with skill of which he is doubtless proud,
has converted that beautiful thing into a little heap of rufﬂed
feathers or blood—stained fur! If I were to take a ﬁnely-printed
and illustrated volume of Tennyson or Shelley, and tear out the
leaves and dabble them in the mud, those who saw me would say :2
“What stupid folly ! ” But every bird and "beast is a Poem by the
great Author of Nature, containing wise and wonderful lines, and
beautifully bound in variegated plumage or furry coat ! To destroy
it seems at least as stupid and barbarous as to pull the book to
pieces.

The Selborne Society, quiz Society, does not, I believe, set itself
against all ﬁeld sports, only against such excessively degraded kind
of sports as the pigeon matches of Hurlingham, shooting sea-gulls
on the shore, and so 011. Its principles, however, seem to me very
clearly to include the condemnation of all wanton destruction of
harmless animals, for the simple reason that it is a robbery of f
Nature’s living jewels, her pearls and diamonds, which are far
more precious than her lesser trinkets (sweet and pretty as they
are) of ferns and foxgloves.

Please to understand, I am not now questioning whether ordinary
ﬁeld sports (such as pheasant and partridge and rabbit shooting

and ﬁshing) are cruel, or morally wrong. When the death of an

 

 

 




 

animal is speedy, and its ﬂesh is really wanted for food, I do not
think such sports can properly be stigmatized as “cruel,” or
condemned as morally unlawful, while we slaughter oxen and sheep
for our tables.‘ I am only now pointing out that the sportsman
betrays a very un-Selbomian contempt for the most beautiful
objects of Nature, and, a readiness (to me quite unaccountable) to
destroy them. Presently I shall urge the cultivation of such
sympathy for animals as must render the killing of them evermorc
painful, rather than “ pleasurable sport.”

But, my friends! Real Cruelty—the inﬂiction of torture 011 any
sentient creature—is something very much more serious than the
spoiling of. Nature’s jewels, something worse than an exhibition
of indifference to beauty and grace. It is not merely aesthetically
barbarous. It is morally wicked.

I am particularly desirous of obtaining your assent to this
distinction, because my experience goes to show that a large
number of persons stop short at the merely zesthetic aspect of
Cruelty, and dismiss frightful cases of it with the superﬁcial
comment that they are in very bad taste, or, as schoolboys say, in
“Bad Form.” “Bad form,” indeed, (as I trust we shall all
agree), they are, and that most emphatically! But it is to
overlook their gravest character to speak of them as if primarily
only a failure in taste. To dissect a horse alive (as they dissect
lialf-a-dozen horses every week at Alfort), or to cut down a
rosebush, are not actions on the same plane, nor should we attempt
to weigh them in the same balance, or speak of them in the same
breath, as examples of barbarity. The sentiency of the animal, its
capacity to safer when mangled, introduces a new element into its
relation to us ; and lifts it on the level where moral relations come

into play, and moral responsibilities arise on our side, paramount




 

 

7

altogether to aesthetic considerations. Here then for the present
we will, with your permission, pass beyond the Selborne Society’s
purview of our question (namely, the aesthetic), and I shall address
myself to you on the broader ground of our common human duties
towards our humble brethren of the ﬁelds and woods ; our fellow
lodgers in this planet-house of the Almighty.

It may be desirable here to observe that in all I shall say in the
present Address about our moral relations to animals I shall have in
View only those higher and vertebrate species of animals in which
a highly organized nervous system provides such capacity for grave
saﬁeﬂng, as constitutes the ground of our obligation to spare them
suﬂering. I do not in the least believe with Shakespeare that
“the poor beetle which we tread upon” suffers as much—or
a thouSandth part as much—anguish “as when a giant dies; ”
or that an oyster suffers anything which can properly be called
“pain” at all. '

I feel assured that all who hear me this evening—at all
events all Members of our Selborne Society,—will agree with me
broadly that Cruelty to Animals is a Moral Qﬂence, or, religiously
speaking, a 873%. But perhaps not everyone has thought why it is
an Offence or Sin; and how it comes’to pass that, being one, so
very little has been said in condemnation of it in old times
either by religious teachers or professed Moralists, and how it
happens that no Legislature in the world punished it before the
year 1822,—the memorable year in which Martin’s Act was passed;
the Act concerning which Lord Erskine well prophesied that it
would prove “not only an honour to the Parliament of England,
but an era in the civilization of the world.”

The strangest confusion seems to exist in many minds as to the

ﬁrst of these queries :——“ Why is Cruelty to an animal wrong ‘2 n I

 

 

 




 

8

have myself heard three very eminent men discussing this
question at a public meeting and ﬂoundering about as if in a bog,
feeling for the ground! Finally they agreed that Cruelty, though
not directly rebuked by any Biblical or Church authority, was
opposed to the éthos—the whole spirit and sentiment of Christianity.
I should rather think indeed, that it was opposed to the spirit of
Christ’s Religion, which is supremely the religion of mercy and
justice to the weak and lowly ! But it is little better than childish
to go about with the dark lantern of Authority in search of a truth
Which lies .in broad daylight before our eyes. As Bishop Butler long
ago pointed out :—On the fact of a creature being sentient, that is,
capable of szgﬂm'z’ng, arises directly, and without any further reasons,
the obligation on our part to spare it suffering. There is no need
to cast about for remoter considerations ; and Authority is as super-
ﬂuous in the case as would be authority for the truth of the
Multiplication Table. Whether the creature can Speak, or can
Reason, or has any Duties, or can understand the correlation
of Rights and Duties, or whether it be Immortal, are all questions
foreign to the issue,—namely, our simple primary obligation to spare
it suffering, SINCE IT CAN SUFFER. We are here down on the very
ultimate ground of morals, and we can no more prove our moral
aXiOm than we can prove the axioms of geometry. It is as certain,
nevertheless, as that “parallel lines cannot enclose space," and
that “things which are equal to the same thing are equal to one
another.” N0 lesson of morality, surely, has any force if the
lesson, “Do not Torture” has none? Were we to sit down to
devise a typical evil action, what else should we think of but to
torture a highly sensitive, unoffending being ‘9 The rank in Nature
of the being on whom the pain is inﬂicted is a secondary matter,

and (so long as the suffering is equal) does not essentially alter the

 

 




 

.. ._V.._. _. ﬁﬁ.» . {Wan -m mm.

9

character of the action. If it be Godlike to bestow joy and
happiness—if God’s Goodness to the birds and brutes is Goodness
still—divine, adorable Goodness,—though the objects of it never
know the Hand which feeds them; then it is to be precisely the opposite
of God-like voluntarily to give pain, and to turn the natural enjoy-
ment of life into misery and anguish. It is not less devil—like to give
pain and to turn enjoyment to anguish, because the sufferers are
dumb, and meek and altogether at our mercy. The moral Offence,
the sin, lies in the devil-like disposition itself which willingly
gives pain. It is true that other, and very solemn con-
siderations come in to enhance the guilt of wanton pain-giving,
when the victim is a human being. I am not denying that
to belabour a woman is worse than to belabour an ass, and
to starve a child worse than to starve a horse or cow. But
the cruel beating or starving of the brutes, is not a diferent
thing from the cruel treatment of the weak human being, but
only the same cruelty, the same devil’s characteristic, applied
to lower objects.

But now, if the wickedness of torturing animals be so plain
that it stares us in the face when we look at the question squarely—1
we may ask how has it happened that an idea, apparently so
obvious and undeniable, has been so long in obtaining even
the limited acceptance it has yet gained in the world? It was
hardly adopted by Englishmen at the beginning of this century.
Even such a man as Sydney Smith ridiculed it in the Edinburgh
Review ; and it has made its way very slowly and partially as yet
among the other countries of Europe—not at all in Spain or
Naples. At the present moment it is not admitted by the
Jesuit Professor of Moral Philosophy at Stonyhurst who teaches

the students that “we have no duties of any kind to the lower

 




 

10

animals as neither to stocks or stones.”——('Moml Philosophy. By
Joseph Rickaby, S.J., p. 249.)*

How does it happen that we have in this late age of the world
discovered a new commandment which enforces itself on our
consciences, and has even taken a place in our national Statute
Book ? The answer is plain, though to some minds perhaps novel
and startling. It is :—-that human morality, that is, man’s perception
of moral truths, (not the eternal and immutable truths themselves,
but only our apprehension of them), is PROGRESSIVE. The ﬁrst
principles were grasped by men in remotest antiquity, men who
wrote Genesis and the Egyptian Book of the Dead, and the Vedas
and the Gdthas of the Zend Avesta. The last conclusions will only
be drawn from those principles when our happy successors in
milleniums to come will be making Earth a paradise of love and
peace.

Nothing I venture to assert can be more false to history, or to the
true idea of the relation of God to His intelligent creatures, than the
notion, (prevalent formerly in most of the churches), that He has
long ago spoken His last word to us, and has nothing more to
teach us'; no further lessons of justice and holiness and love, to
write on the ﬂeshly tablets of our hearts. The Father of Spirits

is a living Father; not a dead one whose testamentary bequests

 

 

* In a letter in the Hants and Sussex News of March 18th, the Rev. John

Cummins, O.S.B., writes in this contemptuous strain: “ To speak of
animals as our fellow-creatures . . . is a misuse of language.
Surely animals have no reasoning power at all, no general ideas, but
merely an association of particular sensations. . . . Not having a
moral and intelligent nature, they are not our fellows ; they are not mine,
at least” (l) “Man cannot commit an injustice against things over
which he has full ownership and dominion, and which are given to him
for use, service, and enjoyment.” (Italics mine.)

 




 

 

 

11
alone are left to us. His Inspiration, like His Grace, ﬂows on for
ever and ever.

If time allowed, I could go back and point out numberless instances
in which it is certain that new moral ideas actually entered the minds
of men at a given epoch. In our generation, for example, we are
all of opinion, that to hold a Man in slavery,———be he black or
white,—is wrong and immoral. But a hundred years ago scarcely
anyone thought this; and when the modern school of prophets arose,
—+Wilberforce and Clarkson and Garrison and Theodore Parker,—
to denounce the great sin of their day (just as Isaiah and Jeremiah
denounced the sins of ancient Judah), they found themselves
confronted by highly pious persons, clergy and laymen, who
maintained that Slavery was an Institution warranted by
Scripture, and that Negroes were descendants of Ham, and
so had “ no rights ”~ against the descendants of Shem and
Japhet; precisely, for all the world, as the advocates of animals
are now told by the Jesuits that brutes have no rights against
men and women! Nevertheless, after a hundred years, we have
all unanimously reached the coinclusion that Slavery is “the
sum of all villainies ” l The moral sense of mankind (God be thanked
for it 1) goes on growing as the generations pass away—sometimes
very slowly and imperceptibly, sometimes rapidly, extending over
new realms of Duty, beholding ever more clearly the evil of evil,
the goodness of good, and recognizing that what was excusable to
the savage or half-civilized man is not pardonable to the heir of all
the ages. We are as men ascending a mountain, who, as they rise
higher, look further and further aﬁeld into wider and ever wider
horizons of Duty.

But if Cruelty to Animals be a Moral offence, as we hold (and as

the men of the next century will doubtless hold as unanimously as

 

 

 

 




 

 

12

we all now condemn Slave-holding), then this moral side of our
relation to the animals is one which must be destined to come
continually more to the front, till at last we may hope that cruelty
to bird or brute will be recognized on all hands as belonging
to the same class of evil and shameful actions as Theft, Perjury,
Lying, Swindling, and the like. The man convicted of foully
maltreating a beast will be not merely ﬁned or imprisoned by
the magistrate, but “ cut” by his neighbours more peremptorily
than if he had been detected in picking pockets, or found drunk in
the gutter.

This is not the place, nor can I trespass on your time long
enough to draw effectively the lines between those acts towards
Animals which properly come under the deﬁnition of Cruelty, and
those which do not do so, and are justiﬁable. All cruelty to man
or beast may be deﬁned as “ the voluntary inﬂiction, by a moral
free agent, on a sentient being, of severe pain, not intended for the
beneﬁt of the suﬁ'erer, and not authorized by justice.” It may be
Ignorant cruelty, (the cruel person being unaware of the pain he
causes), or Careless Cruelty, (the cruel person being indifferent to
the pain he causes), or lVanton Cruelty, (the cruel person causing
pain for the sake of excitement), or Malignant Cruelty, (the cruel
person causing pain from hatred of his victim, and taking direct
pleasure in his pain), or Interested Cruelty. Of all these,
Interested Cruelty, (in which the cruel person causes pain—with, or
without reluctance,———for ulterior purposes of his own or the beneﬁt
of third parties) is the one from which all the worst persecutions
of men and women formerly, and the most heinous tormentings of
animals in these days, have their origin. In old times they burnt
heretics and Jews for the sake, as was alleged, of the eternal

interests of the Souls of men. Now they torture dogs and cats

 

 

x . i.__. . ______V__.'___.._.4 1»-

 




 

 

 

 

 

.13

and monkeys for the sake of the tempbrary interests of their Bodies.
Cowardly people condoned the 01d cruelties which, they were told,
were “necessary ” for their salvation from heresy, and they now
condone those which they are told are done for the beneﬁt of their

health, and cry like Browning’s gentleman in Arcades Ambo :

“ I would have no end of brutes,
Cut up alive, to see what suits

My case.”

Let us hear this principle in mind. Cruelty does not cease to be
cruel because the man who inﬂicts unjustiﬁed, and, to the suferer,
useless, pain, has in view the interests of other parties. Theft does
not cease to be Theft, because the thief intends to apply the stolen
property to the use of his friends !

If I be asked the very difﬁcult question,—Where to draw the
line between the lawful use of animals and such abuse as constitutes
the offence of cruelty,——I reply that, in a rough way, common sense
and the Act 12 and 13 Vict., c. 92, under which the R.S.P.C.A.

carries about 5,000 convictions annually with public approval,

supply a broad practical demarcation, needing only a little enlarge-

ment to include certain other species of animals to be protected. If
we want something further (and undoubtedly the subject is a most
difﬁcult and obscure one), the best suggestion I have been able to
make is,-——that we should endeavour to ﬁgure to ourselves a disinter-
ested and just Spectator watching our conduct to the brutes, and
pronouncing as UMPIRE between us and them. Such an Umpire
and Arbiter would, I apprehend, decree that the cattle and sheep
and poultry which we breed and rear carefully and feed and
shelter kindly, have a good bargain from us, if, for our need, we end

their lives by a merciful and speedy slaughter less painfully than

 

 




 

14

they would naturally expire by old age or disease. He would also,
I believe, accept freely on behalf of our horses and dogs and cats,
the exchange of food and kind treatment which we offer for their
services; always provided that such treatment be really kind ; that
our horses be not overdriven or starved, nor our dogs beaten or
chained up continually like criminals ,—worse treated indeed than any
criminals are now dealt with in Europe. In the case of wild,
ferocious, or noxious animals, our relations may be described as
those of lawful War, and the Arbiter would doubtless say that we
are within our rights in destroying them, when we do so with no
needless suffering.

A more difﬁcult question is that of wild game and ﬁsh ; creatures.
on which we have conferred no beneﬁt, and which would do us no
hurt if we left them alone. If these are wanted bondﬁde for food,
it seems as if the Arbiter would say: “Man may here take his
place, no longer as master of the world, but as a single link in the
chain of being—~a member of the great carnivorous family; and
may prey on other animals as they prey on each other. But it.
must be positively for his food he kills beast, bird or ﬁsh, not for
the pleasure of killing, as men shoot sea-gulls on the sands or
pigeons at Hurlingham.” These decisions of our ideal Umpire-
would cover most of our relations with the lower animals in a
manner which would create no violent revolution in our habits,
such as the Vegetarians would introduce, (as I think quite.
mistakenly, in the interests of either beasts or men). But they
would admonish us at every fresh point that our use of the brutes
is only morally permitted on conditions to be strictly observed on
our part. The cattle must be well cared for and mercifully
slaughtered; the horses and dogs kindly treated; the noxious.

animals destroyed without cruelty; the wild game and ﬁshes killed.

 

 




 

 

 

15

really for food, not for pastime. The law is absolute and without

exception. We must never

“Blend our pleasure or our pride

With suffering of the meanest thing which lives.”

But beyond all these cases there is one other, which we must-
imagine as submitted to the ideal Umpire; nay which I am very
sure is submitted now to that supreme ARBITER whose eye pierces
the secrets of the modern Torture Chambers of Science. Man, on
his side, asks, Whether it be lawful for him to m’visect an animal, a
horse, dog, monkey, rabbit, or cat, to obtain Knowledge, which he

desires either to complete his science, or to aid him in curing

. disease. He says: “Hitherto this creature has been well cared

for, and perhaps it has served and loved its master. Now I will
tie it down on a trough, constructed carefully for that purpose, will
give it a whiff or two of chloroform, the effects of which will soon
pass away, or perhaps I will inject curare into its veins, absolutely
paralyzing its motions but leaving its sensitiveness unchanged,
perhaps heightened. Then I shall cut it slowly to pieces with my
ﬁne knives and saws and scalpels,—dissecting out perhaps its
larger nerves, so that they may be seen running like bare threads

across the gaping wounds ; or I shall scoop out part of its brains;

.or run tubes into its living heart; or lift out its kidneys, leaving

them in a box by its side, but still connected by the exquisitely
sensitive vessels; or saw across its spine and irritate the severed
nerves. Its death, which would close my experiments too
abruptly, will not be allowed to take place for several hours,
during which it must suffer excruciating agony. Nothing can
comfort the brute, for it knows nothing of the hope and faith which

may sustain human sufferers on the rack. It will feel only

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

16

as a pious Christian who had loved and served God all his
days might feel were he to ﬁnd that same God thrust him at
last into Hell. Helpless, bound and gagged, the creature will lie
through the long hours on its torture-bed. Then, when the work
of mangling is done, it will be loosened and thrown in a corner—
not always even put mercifully out of pain. By-and-bye its carcase
will probably be burnt in the furnace kept now-a-days in such
laboratories to get rid of the multitude of victims.”* This is
What the Vivisector intends to do.

What does the great Arbiter say now ? Will he also condone
this treatment of animals as justiﬁable ‘2 The lives of the brutes
in all the other cases we have supposed, are, on the Whole, a joy
and blessing, and their deaths not more painful (generally much
less so) than natural decease by old age or disease. But to the
Vivisected creature, the balance of existence has been converted
into a misfortune and a curse. The hours of its excessive agony
outweigh all its former little harmless pleasures of food and
sunshine and liberty, and the love of its master and of its mate and
offspring. It had been well for that creature had it never been
born. Can the Supreme Umpire View such things and sanction
them ? Can we suppose he would decree that the innocent brute
might lawfully be so treated, and that the Vivisector would
be justiﬁed? Here we have Interested Cruelty in its crudest and
most typical aspect; the extreme of conceivable cruelty to an
unoﬁ'ending and friendly creature, done for sake of the real or

supposed interests of the cruel person and his kind. Our law

 

* (I have lately heard of a case where a dog after being Vivisected was
carelessly ﬂung on such a furnace in a well-known laboratory in London
while still living, and had just strength left to crawl off and lie in a corner,
where he was found burnt and mangled, a spectacle of misery unspeakable.)

 




 

17

punishes a poor costermonger who drives his donkey with his cart
of humble wares when the animal is in an unﬁt condition, and we
take no notice of his plea (often perfectly true) that he was sorry
to do it, but was obliged to earn the day’s food for his wife and
family. But while the coster is ﬁned or sent to prison for driving
his ass,the Vivisector goes scot free with his license; though he can
only plead that he hopes to ﬁnd out, by his thousandfold-worse
cruelty, something to beneﬁt the public at large, by-and-bye ! Can
we for a moment suppose that the great Arbiter between Brute and
Man will, like the administrators of the Vivisection Act, sanction
this Interested Cruelty of the Vivisector, and pronounce it lawful
and righteous? Nay, but it seems to me a deep and heavy
damnation must fall on such tyrannous misuse of human power!
As the best man I have ever known, the greatest philanthropist of
our century,—Lord Shaftesbury,—said: “ I would rather be,
before God, the poor victim on the torture-trough than the

Vivisector beside him.”

I care not what we may be told of valuable discoveries wrung
from such tortures or of the superior importance of men‘ to animals.
Vivisection is an “ abominable sin ” ; and it is no concern of ours,
nor shduld we deign to enquire what proﬁt may be gained by it, or
whether it be, (as there is good ground for believing,) as useless

and foolish as it is wicked.

I have now ended the sad part of this Address. We have seen
that cruelty to animals is forbidden on Esthetic grounds; and,
much more seriously, on Moral ones. There is yet another reason

for Humanity to Animals, namely: that if we are to resemble.

 

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

18

our Father in Heaven, we must extend to them that Benevolence
and Compassion which He surely feels, and which would ﬂow out
of our hearts spontaneously were we only more God-like, and less
Devil-like. I see no reason whatever why kChrist’s great law of
Love to our Neighbour should not be taken as extending to our
non-human “neighbours,” in our households, and in the ﬁelds
and woods. There is nothing in the nature of Love or
Sympathy causing them to stop short (like pieces of rope
which have been extended as far as they will stretch!) at
the limits of the human species; any more than at the
conﬁnes of Galilee before reaching Samaria. For a man
to recognize that he is solemnly bound to feel the “ Charity”
St. Paul speaks of towards all of his fellow-men, and yet
to consider himself an excellent Christian While he is utterly
uncharitable and pitiless towards suffering brutes, is, to say
the least, to take a narrow View of the meaning of the
great lesson.

The Bishop of Manchester (universally recognized as one
of the ablest prelates in England), speaking 'last Winter
at an Anti-vivisection Meeting in Manchester, said that the
inﬂiction of torture on Animals offended against the law:
“ T rea-t an inferior being as you would desire yourself to be
treated by a superior being.” That is the “Golden Rule ” of
our relation to these humbler fellow creatures; and while we
obey it, there will be no fear but that our conduct towards them
will be right, and that our feelings will gradually be trained to
sympathy with them.

Pray understand! I am not now talking of petting animals. This
practice, (so good and sweet in itself!) often strangely fails to lead

to general Sympathy with animals; and we sometimes see the

 




 

19

horrid spectacle of men and women pampering and spoiling their
own dogs and cats, and yet remaining perfectly indifferent to the
tortures of other creatures, no less sensitive and loveworthy
than their favourites. For this kind of thing I have nothing
but reprobation. My object is to plead with you, to cultivate
sympathy so far as it is possible to extend it among God’s creatures.
Every attitude of the mind (like the attitudes of the body) tends to
become habitual, and the question is simply: “What shall we
make our habitual attitude of thought and feeling towards the
lower animals ? ” I venture to say there is only one pattern for us
to follow,-——that of Him “ Whose tender 77167‘07363 are over all His
W'orks.” I

It is not so hard a task to train ourselves to love the brutes.
We do not feel it difﬁcult to extend protecting love to some little
child whom we hold in our arms or who toddles along by our side
with its little warm hand clutching our’s. We do not need some
one in authority to tell us not to strike, or maim, or terrify, that
defenceless little babe! The same feelings of protecting pity may
easily be extended a little further, to the beautiful and gentle birds
and brutes. We may surely also love many of them for their own
attaching and endearing qualities ; many for their grace and charm ;
many for their devoted love to ourselves. If our hearts’ doors
were not bolted and barred by old-world prejudice and pride,
we should ﬁnd it the most natural thing in the world to
love animals, to look on their humble joys with sympa-
thizing pleasure; on their pains and weariness with pity ;
on their willing service in return for our food and care, With
the kindly sense of mutual obligation. When .we see them
free and happy in the ﬁelds and woods,—the stately beasts
browsing in the fresh grass, the birds building their lovely

 

 

 




 

 

 

 

20

little nests in the trees and singing their hearts out in trills of
ecstacy,——does it not come to us spontaneously to exclaim like
Coleridge’s Ancient Mariner :—

“ Ye blessed living things ! no tongue

Your beauty may declare ”-——?

Some of you may have read a famous Quaker book,—the
autobiography of a good tailor named John Woolman, who
went to America long before the great Anti-slavery agitation arose,
to urge his fellow Quakers there to give up Slaveholding.
In the Course of this book this true Saint (if ever there
were one he deserved the name) expresses better than I can
do, what ought assuredly, to be the moving feeling in our
breasts towards the lower animals,——what I shall beg to call
RELI GI 0 US Z OOPHILY :—

“ I believe that where the love of God is verily perfected,
avtenderness towards all creatures made subject to as
will be experienced, and a care felt in its that we do
not lessen that sweetness of life in the animal creation

which the great Creator intends for them under our

Government.“

When we have learned to look on Animals thus with sympathy
and tenderness, the Esthetic law which forbids us to destroy or
mutilate what is so lovely a part of Nature, and the Moral law
which prohibits the inﬂiction of avoidable pain on sentient

creatures,—will both have become superﬂuous, so far as

 

* John Woolman’s Journal, Chap. XI.

 




 

21

we are concerned. Love will prove, as ever, “the fulﬁlment of

the law.”

Do we ask : “ How will such Benevolence practically modify our
behaviour to animals ‘2 ” Here are a dozen out of a hundred ways .
in which it will do so :-—-

1. We shall eschew and abominate “ Murderous Millinery”;
the slaughter of Birds to ornament women’s empty heads, and of
Sea-ls to cover their heartless breasts.

2. We shall likewise eschew and abominate “ Gluttonous
Cruelty”; the slaughter of thousands of heaven-soaring larks to
provide entre’es at London dinners,——and the disgusting manufacture
of disease in geese, to make Patés de foie gras.

3. We shall at once cease to kill Pigeons at shooting matches
or sea—birds by the shore, merely for the pleasure of hitting a
living target,—and at last we shall give up Field Sports altogether,
and let the old Hunter instinct (which once had its rightful
place in human nature) die out in the fulness of time. (The
charming pursuit of photographing living wild animals in
their natural haunts may prove a blessed alternative.
With golf and tennis and football and cricket and boating
to give them exercise, I do not think the young manhood
of England needs to tramp the turnips after the poor little
partridges ! )

4. We shall join hands in earnest eﬁ’orts'to improve the methods
of slaughter, and of the transit of cattle.

5. We shall always decline peremptorily to take our places in
any overloaded vehicle, or to remain in a cab with a driver who
ﬂogs his horse unmercifully; and we shall remonstrate against

every act of cruelty we witness abroad or at home.

 

 




 

22

6. We shall take pity on stray animals, and creatures in distress,
and do the best we can for them; never passing by a lost dog or
starving cat on, “ the other side,”——like certain priests and Levites
of ancient times, or modern ones who placidly observe “ Nan e
Cristiano,”——in reply to appeals for pity.

7. We shall suffer no dog in our household to be kept continually
on the chain, like a criminal ; or in an unhealthy or dismal kennel
Where his brave, friendly spirit is broken.

8. We shall discountenance all caging of larks and thrushes,
blackbirds, and other wild creatures; and if canaries and tame
mice or rabbits be kept in our houses we shall compel attention to
their wants.

9. We shall often provide food for the birds in Winter and water
for the beasts in summer.

10. We shall speak gently to animals and guide them as much
as possible without roughness or Violence.

11. We shall labour to instil the love of animals and the
sense of the sin and shame of cruelty in the heart of every
child with whom, as parent, teacher, neighbour, or friend, we
have to do.

12. Lastly, and above all, we shall strain every nerve and leave
no stone unturned, to stop Weds-action; which is the crown and
climax of Wrong towards animals; in comparison of which all

other cruelties are trivial.

In the earliest ages of humanity when primeval man, armed only
with his poor stone-arrows and axes, contended with the Cave-
bear, the Hyaena and the Mammoth in the howling Wilderness of an

uncultured world,—he doubtless regarded the brutes only with

 




 

 

23

dread and hatred. They were then his Enemies. Later on, he
tamed some of them ; ﬁrst the Dog, afterwards the Cow, the Boar,
the Sheep, the Cat, the Camel, the Ass, the Horse,——and then the
conquered brutes became his Slaves. In our time in southern lands
they are Slaves still, cruelly over-worked, ill-treated slaves; but
among Northern peoples they have become more like mediaeval serfs
and trusted servants. By and by, when the law of Love has reached
them at last, they will surely become our FRIENDS. Their humble
pleasures will be our pleasures, and their pains will be pain to us.
Such a thing as Pleasure in killing them, or in giv1ng them pain, will
seem to us unnatural and impossible. Human iife will be much
richer and sweeter when that time comes ; and even between man
and man there will be more peace and goodwill, because the cruel
passions will die away for want of exercise, and the sympathizing
and generous attitude of mind taken once for all towards the lower
animals, will become habitual and constant ; and will be turned not
only to them but to our human fellow creatures. Instead of
practising roughness and cruelty on his horse and his dog, and
coming home to be rough and cruel to his wife and his child, a man
will practice forbearance, gentleness, and sympathy on his beasts,
and come home to be more forbearing and gentle with his family
and his neighbours.
The three Reasons for Humanity to Animals have been now
described in succession :—
1st. The [Esthetic (especially concerning us as members of the
Selborne Society),—whichy forbids cruelty and wanton
slaughter, because they 3190i? the beauty of Nat-are.
2nd. The 1nora1,—which forbids cruelty because it is a moral
ogfence and siii to inﬂict torture on an unoﬁ’ending, sentient

creature.

 

 




24

3. Lastly. The Affectionate,——which prohibits and prevents
cruelty by making us regard the animals with loving-
kindness and sympathy as our humble “neighbours,” and

as fellow-creatures with us of the Good Lord of All.

 

I should have wished to enliven this, I fear, somewhat dry
discussion by illustrations of the lovable character of ' animals,
(may I not say—the respectable character of some of them?)
but it has not been practicable, Let me here relate in
conclusion, just two authentic traits of animal character, premising
that every individual animal, cat, dog, horse or bird has individual
character, and that we ought never to talk, as the school-books
(not Miss Edith Carrington’s beautiful ones) often do of “ The Cat,”
or “ The Dog doing so and so, or feeling so and so.” 1 Every cat
and dog feels differently, and in the same position acts differently!
It would be just as proper to say “ The Man does this or that ; or
the Woman ! ” A recognition of the individuality,—I may say in
this sense, the Personality of every animal,——is the ﬁrst step towards
affection for it. No one dog is like any other dog. Truly, as well
as beautifully, did Matthew Arnold lament over his poor dog Geist,

whose “little self ”—Nature could never restore !

. And not the course
Of all the centuries to come

And not the inﬁnite resource
Of Nature, with her countless sum.

Of ﬁgures, with her fulness vast
Of new creations ever more

Can ever quite repeat the past,
Or just thy little self restore.

 

 




 

 

,,,,.‘__,- -,_..'_;....__».,

25

A few years ago an account went the round of the news-
papers of a terrible ﬁre by which Lusby’s Music Hall
was burned to the ground. The reporters described
incidentally how, in the midst of the confusion of the scene, the
owner of the hall observed his favourite cat rushing in and out of
the burning portion of the building where her kittens had been
left. The ﬁrst and second time she came back bearing a kitten. in
her mouth, and laid it at her master's feet, committing it mutely-to
his charge. Then she bounded back to the ﬁre ; and efforts were
made to catch her and prevent her from running further
risk, but she escaped and returned, scorched and scared, but
bearing a third kitten; which again she left with her master.
Then he made a great struggle to seize and detain her ; but there
was yet another kitten in the ﬂaming house, and the poor cat ﬂew
once more into the smoke and ﬁre, (the torture of which she was
actually suffering at the moment) and disappeared ;——never to return.
When the ﬁre died down and the ruins were cleared, the charred
remains of a cat were found lying beside those of a kitten.

This story our honoured President, Mrs. Talbot, knew would
please her friend Mr. Ruskin, so she cut it out of the newspaper
which contained it and sent it to him. I have been privileged to

see his reply. It runs as follows 2—-
“ That story of the cat is blessed! I hope to meet her in Heaven.”

Do not smile, my friends, at this hope of a Future for the higher

animals, unless you feel yourselves capable of doing something

as heroic as the self—sacriﬁce of that poor cat.

The last story I shall tell is not one of animal heroism, but of

gentleness and devotion, which I think few can read in the words

 




 

26

of the lamented writer, (the late Miss Louisa Shore), without
emotions of playful sympathy. I am kindly permitted by Miss
Shore’s surviving sister, Miss Arabella Shore, to use the manu-
script.

“ The following authentic details concerning a dog, I have just
heard from an Icelandic lady who, in her early girlhood, spent some
time in Copenhagen. The dog had already beCome a renowned
character, and was the theme of newspaper articles. His peculiar
distinction was his conscientious performance of a Nursemaid's
functions to two little girls of ﬁve or six years old. They were,
presumably, twins, as my informant tells me they were exactly
alike in height, face and dress, moreover sweet, and very pretty.
She has often seen him escorting them without any other attendant
to the public Park, through which she constantly passed in her
walks, to have the delight of watching him. It seems that the
mother was a widowed lady who could not afford a special attendant
for her children’s walks; but she impressed on them the duty of
absolute obedience to their guardian, whom of course she had
trained to the task. 80 with him they used to set forth,
each holding one of his large silky ears. (My informant could
not recall his exact breed, but it appears that he was enormously
large ; probably a Newfoundland.)

“ He would then lead them to the public Park, and when he had
occasion on the way to cross a street, he would look carefully to
right and left to make Sure that it was perfectly safe. Arrived at
the Park, the twins wOuld play together, whilst he lay down and
watched them. If any stranger approached too near for his liking,
he would eye him sternly as long as he remained near. It is easy
to guess what would have been the intruder’s fate had he given

signs of an intention to molest the little ones in any way. If

 




 

27

either of them should stray a little too far from the other, the dog
would fetch her back so as for both to be under his eye together.
Sometimes one of the pair would run to him with arms stretched
out, throw herself on the grass beside him, clasp him round the
neck and cover his honest face with kisses, which were always
delightedly responded to. Finally, when the due time came, he
would summon his little charges to accompany him home. If
either of them delayed he would recall her to her duty by pulling
hold of her dress. Then he would present his great head to each
in turn, that she might take hold of the accustomed ear, and thus
brought them home as safely as they went.

“ Surely three happier and more innocent creatures could not have
lived in the world at that moment? I think the tenderness,
chivalry, ﬁdelity and prudence of that dog would make a fair share

of virtue for any human being.”

So far Miss Shore’s sweet story. It seems to me that it ought
not to be a very difﬁcult task to regard with tenderness and even
admiration creatures such as these and their kindred. It is to
despise love and ﬁdelity and self-devotion themselves (the highest
things of which any nature is capable—much higher things
assuredly than intellectual greatness), to turn with contempt from
them, and speak of them as “ things ” having “ no more rights than

stocks and stones.”

THE END.

 




. .‘ . 0“ a
,-,,.(.,.-E; ‘ l n

3
4,
m
4,.
a
g
g
_.
;
A
;
;
4»

 




 

.G 013* e




 




