THE ETON HARE-HUNT

By HENRY S. SALT.
Formerly Assistant M aster at Eton.

LITTLE has been heard of late about the Eton College Beagles. '
The War caused the hare-hunt to be suspended for several
years, and it was hoped that when the hunting was resumed
the headmaster, Dr. Alington, to whom a most inﬂuentially
signed memorial had been presented by the Humanitarian
League, and who cannot be unaware of the disgust which is
felt in many quarters at the ” breaking up ” of hares as a
schoolboy recreation, would at least insist on the substitution
of a drag—hunt, a form of sport which was once successful
and indeed popular at Eton. This hope was disappointed.

It is not necessary here to repeat the arguments against
hare—hunting. That it is a cruel practice cannot be denied,
owing to the extreme timidity of the hare, and her habit of
running in circles ; and it is difﬁcult to see on what possible
grounds a school-pack can be defended. Here is an extract
from a letter written in January, 1905, by Mr. F. C. Selous,
the famous lion-hunter, to a member of the Humanitarian
League: “ After reading your pamphlet, I certainly think
it would be better to substitute drag-hunting for the pursuit
and killing of a hare. To see one of these animals worried
and torn by a pack of dogs is not an edifying sight for a
young boy.” '

That the reader may judge for himself, we subjoin a few
extracts from the boys’ own account of their sport, as printed
in the Eton College Chronicle in IgI7 2——

“ Saturday, March I7, Dorney Village. . . . Here we put
up a hare, not a very strong one, which crossed the road and
ran for the gravel pit, where she turned right-handed towards
the nurseries, but was headed and ran on to the line. When

 




 

she was trying to cross the line she was headed back, and
making for the wire of the nurseries, where she! would have
got caught up, she was cut in half by an express train.”

“ Saturday, March 24. On Butts Field we put up a hare,
which ran left—handed across the stream, over Dorney road
to Easy Bridge, where she squatted. Here she was soon
put up again and ran to arches and the Pumping Station;
she then ran up the middle of Butts Field and turned left—
handed at the end, taking the same circle once more, up to
Easy Bridge, to arches, the Pumping Station, and up the
middle to Butts Field. Reaching the other end of the ﬁeld,
she doubled back and squatted in a ditch sixty yards from
the railway. She was once more put up, and ran left~handed
over the wireless ﬁeld to the farm. Here she squatted,
absolutely beat, and the hounds ran over her; getting into
the farmyard, she got up and ran very slowly to the allotments ;
reaching the stream, she fell in, was nearly drowned, and
dropped down on the other side dead beat, till the hounds
came up and killed her. We did no more that day, but had
the run of the season, I hr. I2 min. ;’ a wonderful day for the
last day of the season.”

Especially disgusting in these descriptions are the many
references to hares “ dead beat,” “ quite stiff,” “ too done
to move,” etc.; and to hounds “ thoroughly deserving
blood,” and “ breaking her up.”

The reports now printed in the Eton College Chronicle are
not quite so outspoken. as those of earlier years; but it is
evident from recent issues that the sport itself is carried on
in the same old barbarous manner, and, as is usual in the
annals Of hunting, the lack of humour is as conspicuous
as the lack of humanity. Stupid and revolting as the whole
business is, a reader cannot but smile at some of the obstacles
of which the~ young beaglers complain. On a recent occasion
(February I4th, 1924) when the hounds had chased the hare
into a private garden, “ the Master was severely rated by




the lady owner, and told to take them out.” Another time
- “ hounds could not be taken across, on account of .a very
violent farmer.” Still more reprehensible was the behaviour
of “ a certain sportsman,” who, “ seeing our hare crawling
up the ditch, jumped off his bicycle and tried to collar her.”
That, from a fellow sportsman, was the bitterest of all; a
case emphatically of Eli tn, Brute .‘7 But the incident ended
all right ; for the interloper was bafﬂed “ in his hopes of a
cheap dinner,” as the hounds killed “ their well-deserved
hare ” and “ broke her up ” in the road after a run of 1% hours.
A pretty picture of what may be witnessed on a public
thoroughfare in an age which considers itself civilised!

The surprising thing is not that the owner of a garden should
have “ severely rated ” these young savages, but that the
headmaster of Eton should give his sanction to a sport which
consists in pursuing a small panic—stricken animal over a
country which is largely intersected by paths, roads, railway—
l.ines,‘ allotment—gardens, nursery-grounds, and wire—fences,
and where the quarry is in continual risk of being headed
back or hung up. It is difﬁcult to see how those who are
responsible for such a pastime are justiﬁed in condemning
the less aristocratic rabbit—coursing.

Very signiﬁcant of the growth of public Opinion is the
fact that among the many well-known men who, at one
time or another, have lent their support to protests against
the Eton Beagles, we ﬁnd such diverse names as those of
Mr. Herbert Spencer, Archbishop ’Temple, Mr. Thomas
Hardy, Mr. Frederic Harrison, Lord VVolseley, Sir Frederick
Treves, General Bramwell Booth, Dr. John Clifford, Lord
Courtney of Penwith, Lord Morley, Mr. Bernard Shaw,
Mr. Edward Carpenter, Mr. John Galsworthy, Lord Olivier,
and Mr. W. H. Hudson; also a number of bishops, heads of
Colleges at Oxford and Cambridge, and masters of grammar
schools and training colleges. Headmasters of public schools
have naturally felt themselves unable to criticise an Eton

 




institution; but a number of them signed a memorial to
the Admiralty in 1907 (against the continuance of the Dart-
mouth Beagles), which was worded in the same terms as
those addressed to the authorities at Eton.

One cannot doubt that the example set by Dr. Arnold in.
discontinuing the hare-hunt at Rugby will have to be followed,
sooner or later, at Eton itself.

N.B.——Humanitarians would greatly help the work of the.
League by notifying the Secretary of anyone interested, so
that leaflets may be sent to them; by purchasing and
distributing our leaﬂets; by organising a Group of those
interested in their district, and by sending Press cuttings
(with name and date of paper) of cruel sporting incidents, so
that these may be followed up promptly.

DONATIONS in aid of the work are needed and will be.
warmly welcomed. Cheques and money orders should be
made payable to Mr. Ernest Bell, Treasurer.

THE GRUEL SPORTS SERIES.
Leaﬂets, 4. pages, 75d. each, 30 for 15., post free.

Chase of the Wild Stag. By LORD COLERIDGE.

Blood Sports Gondemned. By EMINENT AUrHORrriEs.
Morality of Field Sports. By THE LATE PROFESSOR FREEMAN.
Killing for Sport. By G. BERNARD SHAW. ’ ,

The Much Maltgned Rook. By T. S. HAWKINS.

Our Sportive Butchers. By H. W. NEVINSON.

Sport and the Otter. By J". COLLINSON.

The Eton Hare-Hunt. By HENRY S. SALT.

Leaﬂets, 2 pages, éd. each, 50 for 13., post free.

cruelty in Sport. A letter by DONALD MACLEOD,, Member of British
Olympic Council.

Another Bad Fox. Reprinted by permission from Pumh.

The Drag Hunt and its Advantages. By H. B. A.

cruelty and Sentiment. Reprinted from the Times.

ls Hunting Sport? By A. G. G.

Donkey Derbys.

 

LEAGUE FOR PROHIBIT‘ION OF CRUEL SPORTS,
YORK HOUSE, PORTUGAL STREET, LONDON, W.C.2.

 

Y1763 lee lzclclph Prmtiﬁg Works, Gate Street, K ingsway, W.C.2

 




