ULAWS Monograph 7a,

The Pathological Effects of Poisons
' Used for Rodents

by

J. G. WRIGHT, F.R.C.V.S.

Lecturer in Surgery and Materia Medica, Royal Veterinary College,

A paper read at a meeting of the University of London Animal Welfare Society
at the College of the Pharmaceutical Society
on February 27, 1936,
Chairman: Professor J. H. Burn, M.D., Dean of the College.

2

Reprinted from the VETERINARY RECORD, May 9, .1936, by kind permission of the Editor and Author

by
ULAWS .
(The University of London Animal Welfare Society),

42, Torrington Square, London, W.C.l

PRICE 6d.

 




 

 

 




Reprinted from THE VETERINARY
RECORD, May 9th, 1936. Vol._
XVI. No.19. Pp. 599-602.

THE PATHOLOGICAL EFFECTS
OF PO’ISONS USED
FOR RODENTS*

J. G. WRIGHT, F.R.C.V.S.,
ROYAL VETERINARY COLLEGE

The object of this meeting is to discuss the
destruction of rodents by the use of chemical
poisons, and to consider how the present state
of affairs might be improved, having humane
considerations as the chief object in view. It is
my task to review the pharmacological actions
of those agents at present in use, paying atten-
tion to the manner in which they cause death,
the symptoms which they provoke prior to it,
and the rate at which it occurs; also to make
suggestions regarding the possible introduction
of other poisons which have a lethal efﬁciency
similar to or greater than those at present in
use, but which do not possess their undesirable
features.

That the use of poisons is one of the most
effective means of controlling the rodent menace
appears to be established. The methods of
administration employed fall under two head-
ings: (a) fumigation, (b) poison baits. The
former is the best method for the treatment of
burrows and warrens; it can be applied to the
destruction of both rabbits and rats. Hydro-
cyanic acid gas is the most effective agent. The
latter method is of greatest service for the
destruction of rats infesting buildings, and the
following agents are the commonest: arsenic
trioxide or potassium arsenite, barium car-
bonate, phosphorus, red squill, strychnine, salts
of thallium.

Attention must be drawn to the recently—
published report of the Poisons Board, appointed
under the Pharmacy and Poisons Act, 1933, for
when the rules which it has formulated become
law in May of this year, the use of poisons as
vermin killers will be greatly restricted, and
before instituting any new work on the subject,
the Society will be well advised to have these
rules in mind. That the Board considered the
subject is evidenced by the statement in the
report that although the importance of effective

 

*Paper read at a meeting of the University of
London Animal Welfare Society held at the
College of the Pharmaceutical Society on
February 27th, 1936: Professor J. H. Burn, M.D.,
Dean of the College, in the Chair.

 

 

 

vermin killers is recognised, it is considered
undesirable that such a large range of poisonous
substances should have wide distribution. The
inclusion of barium carbonate in Part II of the
Poisons List only, and the entire exclusion of
red squill from the list, is considered by the
Board to be sufﬁcient to meet the public
demands. Claremont (1926), in his excellent
handbook on the subject of rat destruction,
makes the following provisions for the ideal
poison: It must have a high degree of efﬁ-
ciency, small doses must certainly kill. It must
be relatively harmless to domestic animals. It
must be cheap and easily procurable. It should
have no repellent taste or smell. It must be
reasonably easy to handle and readily com-
pounded with suitable ingredients to form
attractive baits; and, lastly, it should keep well
and retain its toxicity. There would appear to
be little doubt that barium carbonate and red
squill answer these requirements more exactly
than any of the other poisons used. To these
postulates might be added, that its action shall
be rapid and that it shall, nOt provoke distress-
ing and painful symptoms,

ARSENIC.—~The poison popularly referred to
as arsenic is chemically arsenic trioxide, the
anhydride of the tri—valent arsenious acid, and
its salts the arsenites. The metal itself is com-
paratively non-toxic. Arsenic trioxide is
sparingly and slowly soluble in water, the rate-
at which it passes into solution depending upon
the ﬁneness of its state of subdivision. Taken
in coarse lumps, its toxicity is greatly reduced,
considerable quantities passing through the-
alimentary canal unchanged. It has no odour
and comparatively little taste, with the result
that it is eaten readily. The agent is a proto-
plasmic'poison having a predilection for the cells
lining the stomach and bowel, the liver, kidneys
and heart muscle. The central nervous system is
relatively unaffected. After a large dose death
generally results from shock and collapse conse-
quent upon tissue destruction in the alimentary
canal. An animal may, however, survive this.
initial period subsequently to die from exhaus—
tion and metabolic disturbances.

The onset of symptoms is delayed for half
an—hour or more after ingestion. In animals .
they commence with severe abdominal pain and
colic. In those species capable of the act,
vomiting occurs. A little later profuse diarrhoea
Commences and continues, with straining, and

 




 

 

600 No.19. VOL. xvi.

THE, VETERINAR Y RECORD.

May 9, 1936.

 

possibly the ejection of blood and mucus. These
symptoms are accompanied by marked shock
and prostration. In the course of twelve hours
or so collapse sets in, the animal sinks to the
ground, pulse and reSpirations become feeble
and weak, to be followed by coma, possibly
convulsions, and death. As has been pointed
out, the animal may survive these initial
symptoms to die in the course of the next few
days, consequent upon metabolic changes due
to degeneration of the liver and kidneys, and
exhaustion.

BARIUM CARBONATE.——Occurs as a soft, white
powder. It is insoluble in water, and as such
is probably non-toxic. It is readily converted,
in the presence of dilute hydrochloric acid, into
the soluble and highly-toxic barium chloride.
Its toxicity depends upon the presence of
hydrochloric acid in the stomach, and it will
be more effective when taken by a hungry
animal at the commencement of feeding, than
if taken later on an already full stomach.

Its action may be divided into two phases,
the ﬁrst on the stomach, and the second, on the
central nervous system and unstriped muscle
tissue, after absorption. In the stomach it acts
. as a local irritant, and in some species profuse
vomiting will occur quickly after ingestion.
The rat is not very prone to vomiting. After
absorption it has a powerful stimulating action
on the muscle ﬁbres of the bowel and bladder,
causing profuse purgation and micturition. The
heart muscle is similarly stimulated at ﬁrst,
but later it becomes markedly depressed. The
medulla and spinal cord are at ﬁrst stimulated
and there may be convulsions. Depression and
paralysis follow.

Death is due to depression of the medulla
causing respiratory failure, but contributory
factors are marked circulatory depression due
to the toxic action on the heart, and shock
associated with superpurgation. It generally
occurs within two to eight hours of ingestion,
during the greater part of which the animal is
conscious.

PHOSPHORUS.———-By this is meant yellow phos—
phorus. Being insoluble in water it is absorbed
with difﬁculty and comparatively large quanti-
ties can be taken without ill-effect. Absorption
is facilitated when it is in a ﬁnely-divided state.
It is readily soluble in fats and oils and when
given in such a medium is highly toxic. For
this reason it is generally mixed with some
fatty substance such as dripping when used as
a vermin bait. As was the case with arsenic,
there is no immediate irritant effect in the
stomach and symptoms are delayed for an hour
or more. They commence with some abdominal
pain and colic, vomiting in animals capable of
doing so, and possibly purgation. These symp-
toms subside in the course of six to twelve
hours, and there is apparent recovery. After a

 

 

 

period of two or three days symptoms recur.
Vomiting recommences, there is malaise, dull-
ness and inappetence, some abdominal pain.
The tissues become jaundiced, and haemorrhages
into the mucous membranes occur. A period of
several days’ illness may be followed by re-
covery. If the dose has been a lethal one, these
symptoms will be followed by collapse, often
associated with convulsions, ﬁnally coma and
death.

The action of phosphorus is to produce
extensive fatty degeneration of certain of the
tissue cells, particularly those of the liver,
kidneys, heart muscle, the walls of the blood
vessels,- the stomach and intestines.

Death is due to changes in metabolism conse-
quent upon degeneration of the liver and
kidneys, accentuated by circulatory disturb-
ances. The central nervous system remains
unaffected until ﬁnal collapse occurs. The action
of this agent is similar to that of arsenic,

« except that it is slower.

RED SQUILL.——R€d squill is the dried bulb of
the red variety Of Urgz'nz'a scilla. (01‘ maritima),
a plant of the lily family, obtained from
Mediterranean countries. The squill prepara-
tions of the British Pharmacopoeia are made
from the bulb of the white variety. Consider-
able confusion has occurred over red squill
poisoning in rats owing to the assumption that
the toxic agents were the cardiac glucosides
used in medicine. Claremont (1922) and
Winton (1927) have done much to clear up the
chemistry and pharmacology of red squill. It
would appear that the rat-poisoning principle
is quite distinct from the glucosides, and that
it is present in the red variety only; in fact,
the white bulb is practically non-toxic to rats.
The active principle is unstable and care must
be taken in drying the bulb and preparing the
bait, otherwise it may become innocuous. It is
used either as the dried bulb or as an extract.

The essential action is upon the central
nervous system, there being little or no effect
upon the alimentary canal or circulation.
Symptoms are delayed for several hours after
ingestion, and commence as a paralysis of the
hind limbs, which progressively becomes more
generalised, together with convulsions of vary-
ing intensity, during which the animal may
throw itself about. Death occurs from asphyxia
following paralysis of ”the respiratOry' centre.
Large doses may kill in the course of 24 hours,
death in some cases may be delayed two or
three days. A striking feature is that females
appear to be twice as susceptible as males.

It is often stated that red squill is non-toxic
to domestic animals. It is improbable that this
is the case, although I must admit that I know
of no positive case of poisoning in the dog and
cat.

 




 

May 9, 1936.

%

STRYCHNINE.--— Strychnine is a powerful
alkaloidal poison. In the alimentary canal it
has no local action other than its intensely
bitter taste, although it is readily taken by
dogs. It is rapidly absorbed and symptoms com-
mence in from 15 to 30 minutes after ingestion.
Its chief action is upon the spinal cord; the
brain is relatively unaffected. Under its inﬂu-
ence the reﬂex irritability and the conductivity
of the cord become greatly increased, with the
result that the simplest of stimuli will provoke

a grossly exaggerated motor response. This is-

characterised by the sudden onset of a tetanic
convulsion. The animal falls on to its side, the
Whole body becoming rigid, the limbs and spine
stiﬂly extended and the head thrown back.
When a very large dose has been taken a single
convulsion may cause death. Its intensity is
such that the respiratory muscles become
tetanised and progressive asphyxia occurs. In
such a case the period elapsing between the
onset of the convulsion and loss of conscious—
ness will be between one and two minutes.
Should the animal survive the convulsion this
will be followed by a period of complete relaxa-
tion with marked exhaustion. Very soon another
convulsion will occur. Eventually one will prove
fatal. The rodents are much less susceptible to
the action of strychnine than are the carnivora.
Again the oral method is a bad one for the
administration of strychnine as a poison, for it
has to traverse the liver before reaching the
nervous system and much of it will be held up
in this organ. Administered by injection it is
one of the most rapidly fatal poisons.

THE CYANIDEs.—It is appropriate that the
action of hydrocyanic acid and its salts should
be discussed at this meeting, for a method of
destroying rabbits by pumping calcium cyanide
dust into burrows has been recommended by
this Society. The method has been extensively
employed in Australia. In a monograph recently
published the practical and economic efﬁciency
of the method is demonstrated, although no
description of the course of poisoning is given.

On exposure to moist air ﬁnely-powdered
calcium cyanide decomposes, liberating free
hydrocyanic acid gas. The acid is a powerful
protoplasmic poison, having a toxic action on
all cells, whilst in mammals it is those of the
central nervous system which are most affected.
The brain, medulla and spinal cord are at ﬁrst
powerfully stimulated and then depressed and
paralysed. In addition, under its inﬂuence, cells
are unable to absorb oxygen from the red blood
cells, so that asphyxia plays a prominent part.

By whatever method the agent is given
absorption and the onset of symptoms are
extremely rapid—by inspiration in from ﬁve to
eight seconds. The following remarks are based
on observation in the dog following large toxic
doses. The ﬁrst change observed is that respira-

THE ‘ VETERINARY RECORD.

 

 

No.19. VOL. XVI. 601

tions becbme accelerated and deepened; the
animal shows distress and may struggle. This
culminates in a tetanic convulsion. At the onset
of the convulsion the animal may cry loudly.
Respirations cease, due to tetany of the respira-
tory muscles, although the corneal reﬂex is not
immediately lost. The convulsion is followed
by a series of tremors, after which relaxation
sets in. At this stage a few deep gasps may
occur before respiratory failure is complete.
The heart» ceases from anoxaemia. The period
elapsing between the onset of symptoms and the
loss of consciousness is from 30 to 4.0 seconds.
If a smaller quantity has been given it may
be delayed several minutes.

Hydrocyanic acid is probably the most
rapidly fatal poison known. From the humani-
tarian standpoint its one disadvantage is that
it has a primary stimulating action on the
central nervous system and that consciousness
is not lost until the convulsion supervenes.

Of the use of thallium salts I have no experi-
ence. It is a minor metal and its action
resembles that of arsenic. It is not a rapidly-
acting poison.

Reviewing the actions of these poisons, it
will be seen that the majority of them have a
direct toxic action on the protoplasm of cells.
Hydrocyanic acid, by its paralytic action on the
central nervous system, kills very quickly—a
matter ofa few minutes at the outside. Arsenic
and phosphorus have a predilection for the
bowel wall, the liver and the kidneys. With the
former shock plays a great part, whilst with
the latter metabolic changes are the cause of
death. Both are slow, phosphorus especially so.
Barium carbonate affects the central nervous
system, the heart and the bowel. It is more
rapid than the arsenic, phosphorus group, but
much slower than HON. Red squill is a slow-
acting nervous poison. With the exception of
HON none of them Causes early loss of con-
sciousness. The action of strychnine is rather
remarkable, in that it is the symptoms which
it provokes, rather than a direct toxic action,
which are responsible for death. Death occurs
from asphyxia due to spasm of the respiratory
muscles and glottis during a convulsion. If
prompt steps are taken to prevent convulsions
occurring an animal may withstand many times
the normal toxic dose. Its great disadvantage
is that when given by the mouth to rodents it
is improbable that a single convulsion will prove
fatal. '

At this point I will make a brief reference to
agents which might possibly be introduced.
From the humane standpoint the best poisons
are those which have a depressant action upon
the brain without any preliminary stimulation.
It is the group the members of which in medi-
cine are classed as narcotics. Their action is to
provoke a progressively deepening narcosis

 




 

 

 

(502 No.19. VOL. XVI. ' THE VETERINARY RECORD.

which eventually becomes complete loss of con—
sciousness. When toxic doses are given death
occurs from paralysis of the vital centres.
When one attempts to apply these agents for
use in vermin baits, the subject is found to be
teeming with difﬁculties. Most of them are
costly and economic considerations will preclude
their use. With many the quantity necessary
would be large and it would be difﬁcult to ensure
that the animal received sufﬁcient. Again
many of them have a nauseating taste and they
would be refused. An even more important
point is that the action of most of the non-
volatile narcotics is most irregular when they
are given by the mouth. This is due to the fact
that considerable quantities may be broken
down in the liver before reaching the nervous
system; in fact, Scarborough (1936) has re-
cently shown that, using nembutal (probably
the most potent narcotic we possess at present)
by the mouth in rats, it is very difﬁcult to
induce narcosis.

Of the agents used the most toxic are those
containing halogen radicles and chloral hydrate
is the ﬁrst to suggest itself. It has, however, a
particularly nauseating taste. Others are

 

 

May 9, 1936.

chlorbutol and tribromethyl alcohol (avertin).
Of the barbiturate group I think that pheno-
barbitone would be the most suitable.

It would appear to me that a line of research
in which the Society might interest itself, is
the combination of certain of the vermin poisons
in use with narcotics. The toxic action of the
former on the liver would increase the narcotic
action of the latter. The combined action would
possibly be a cumulative one, ‘the aim being that
narcosis supervenes whilst the more potent
poison is having its destructive action.

BIBLIOGRAPHY
The Report of the Poisons Board. (1933.)
London.
CLAREMONT, (1926.) “A Practical Hand-

book on Rat Destruction.” Lono

WINTON, F. R. (1927.) J. Phaorm. & Exper-
Therap. 31 123
L CIaARKE A. J. (1933.) “Applied Pharmacology.”
on

CUSHNY. (1934.) “Pharmacology & Thera-
peutics. ” London.

The British Phalmaceutical Codex. (1934.)
London.

SCARBOROUGH, (1936.) J. Physiol. 86 183.
University of London Animal Welfare Society.
Monographs 4c, 4d.

H. R. CRUISE, L'l‘l)., PRINTERS, POPLAR “'ALK. CROYDON,

 

An)“

 

 

 

 




 

 

 

 




 

 




